

G
The Bulletin
“The Bulletin,” Vol. 64.—N0. 3288
Wednesday, February 17, 1943
Price 6d.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W.. Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.
Jeppelts
THE WEST GATE, WARWICK.
IT is questionable whether many towns in Great Britain are
more world-widely known than the county town of the shire
division bearing its name, pleasingly located on the Avon and
but 20 miles south-east of the second city of the Kingdom—
Birmingham. The town dates from Saxon times, figures in the
Domesday Book as a place of some importance, while its superb
castle, begun in the 14th century, made it “a place outstanding”
in the feudal epoch. This venerable town is still bounded on
the east and west by the original stone gateways, each of which
is surmounted by an ancient chapel. A roadway under a church
sounds somewhat unfamiliar even to modern ears, still, for at
least forty years, in the very heart of the city of London a'
railway station has 14 operated far below one of the city s most
famous churches, within the proverbial stone s throw of the
Mansion House, Bank of England and Royal Exchange. Most
of Warwick to-day is modern. In 1694 a great fire swept away
the majority of the old houses ; the parish church, dedicated to
St. Mary the Virgin, with its superlatively exquisite Beauchamp
Chapel and the Earl of Leicester’s hospital for aged brethren,
fortunately escaped. The castle, residence of the Earls of
Warwick, is, after Windsor and Arundel, possibly the greatest
of the baronial residences remaining in the Old Country. Indus-
trially, Warwick is of comparatively little importance, but as a
centre'of attraction for visitors 'V- " ~ r>rtC! the Homeland
and overseas it is pre-emmer «
erected testify to the extent o r L n
industry of a nature different 0
of the term.


1
Ll*J
This Book FREE to YOU!
STOTT’S CORRESPONDENCE COLLEGE.
100 Russell Street, Melbourne.
Please send, without obligation, your New F fe ‘
Booklet, explaining how to Write tor Profit, *
advertised in the Sydney “Bulletin. ’
My Name
My Address
S.B. 243
The Red Page
N.Z. NEW WRITING.
1 bet you know me, eh? I got the pic-
ture in the paper. You see him? In
pretty near all the paper. Everybody see
him. Everybody know me. They say
“Wah! That’s Sammy. That’s his pic-
ture. Look. Sammy’s picture in the
paper.” And boy it’s me all right. Under-
neath he say, “Sammy the Young Maori
Hero.” That’s me. Pretty good, eh? When
1 go down the store and down the Post
Office they all sing out, “Hey, Sammy,
you got some more picture in the paper?”
Even the pakeha say, “Hello, Sammy.”
Everybody know me. Pretty good, eh?
You get the picture in the paper everybody
know you. Look, 1 show you. I got
him here. See. That’s me all right.
That is how A. P. Gaskell begins his
delightful comedy of the present-day
Maori in “The Picture in the Paper,” a
short story in New Zealand New
Writing (Progressive Publishing Society,
Wellington). Sammy, lingering at school
till he was sixteen —“Miss Buckland she
always say, ‘You the big boy now,
Sammy. When you gonna leave?’ But
I say, T like this school, Miss Buckland.
We have the good funs’ ” —got his pic-
ture in the papers because one day when
the river was in flood he saved the school-
mistress and young Tuki from drowning.
He would be content to bask in his own
publicity for the rest of his life, but the
other Maoris begin to laugh when he
persists in showing the photograph;
Not the hero now, just the bloody
nuisance, ch? Everybody just laugh now
and they say, “When you get some more pic-
ture in the paper, eh, Sammy?” So 1 say,
“Pretty soon now I get some more medal
and the new picture in the paper.” Then
they all laugh, and I think, “Pretty soon
I show these dirty Maori. I gotta get
the new picture in the paper.”
Sammy has already tried the experi-
ment of pushing young Tuki into the
river so that he could rescue him again ;
but all the glory that brought him was a
hiding from Tuki’s old man. His next
chance comes when his mother Anna
appears to be in urgent need of the mid-
wife. Actually, all she needs is castor
oil after too good a feast at a tangi, but
Sammy’s mistake is understandable.
Sammy is in no great hurry to catch his
horse until it dawns on him that a heroic
dash for the nurse might mean that he’d
get his picture in the paper again. Then
he’s in a frantic hurry ; can’t catch the
horse ; loots a pakeha’s car, bashing the
pakeha’s head when he remonstrates;
speeds along the road and piles the car
up against a tree. He’s arrested, but,
though he likes the ride to clink in the
policeman’s new car, he’s not too keen
on gaol.
But pretty soon I get out. Boy, then I
show them. I give them the big surprise.
I got the new picture in the paper. See.
This little one. In the “Truth,” eh? What
they say when I show them this new pic-
ture in the “Truth”? They say, “Wah!
Sammy got some more picture in the paper.
Less see your new picture. You the hero
again, Sammy.”
That’s the story: rich, ripe, complete ;
some underlying pathos, but written in a
fine spirit of acceptance that makes it a
little masterpiece of comedy. The char-
acter study of Sammy is excellent, a rare
example of a successful use of the first
person ; the dialogue’s a faithful echo of
New Zealand’s third language, Maori-
English ; and, though there are touches
of mechanical farce in the pushing of
Tuki into the river and in Anna’s
stomach-ache, the piece as a whole is
realistically convincing. Sammy lives.
One would like to read more about him.
“The Picture in the Paper” stands
alone among the fiction in New Zealand
New Writing as a genuinely new achieve-
ment. It is not “new” to imitate Saroyan,
Joyce or Hemingway. It is not new to
moan about the Depression. It is new
to add a fresh character study to the
great gallery that has come down from
the immortals, from Shakspeare, from
Fielding, from Balzac, from Dickens,
from De Maupassant: and that is what
Gaskell, in a small but vital way, has
achieved.
Frank Sargeson (represented by an
episode from a novel shortly to be pub-
lished by the Hogarth Press) is lively and
interesting as always. But he continues
to write in the first person, with an “I”
who is a broke, suffering, lonely, tough,
boozing guy as in Hemingway. If Sarge-
son had written Gaskell’s story, he would
almost certainly have stopped it short
at the smash into the tree —he likes the
image of violence.
C. R. Gilbert contributes a short story,
“Fear,” about a Maori who was trapped
on a cliff face and left to die of fear or
starvation in an ancient tribal war. A
good theme, but too slightly treated;
failing to create character and so failing
to convey drama. Presumably he, too,
falling for the notion that toughness is
newness, would have stopped Gaskell’s
story at the image of violence. He will
have to consider, with Sargeson, whether
bad prose, instead of being new and
creditable, isn’t simply bad. Sargeson
continues his experiment in the vernacu-
lar. Gilbert has picked up from the
Joyce-Hemingway-Saroyan triumvirate an
“and” that does nothing but mar his
otherwise straightforward writing:
And Rewi Tamati had tried to climb
those cliffs and the search party found him
about halfway up on a ledge three feet
wide, and he had been there about a day
and he couldn’t move up or down because
of the rock jutting out above him and he
was afraid to come down.
Anna Kavan offers Saroyan’s anony-
mous, suffering “I” alone in a big city
and Joyce’s prose:
Festoons of dirtyish ice hung from rocks
like soiled cotton-wool. A smug antisep-
tic-looking gargantuan face, everygirl’s
magazine cover college boy friend, magni-
fied to the nth and thanking God he’s an
American.
I began to feel cold and lonely.
CARS HAD TOUGH GOING ON THE
PULASKI YESTERDAY.
John D. O’Shea avoids the first person,
but substitutes for it an equally anony-
mous and equally suffering “He” who
in one paragraph offers Joyce’s prose,
Hemingway’s toughness, Saroyan’s senti-
mental pathos, and a final touch of
Gertrude Stein:
On all of it he’d try to close his ears
but out in the street smack on the eyes
BALLINS BEER IS BEST TRAVEL BY
RAIL DUL U X blackDULUXblack-
DULUXbIackDULUX street noises all the
time DULUX with cars DULUX and
horns and DULUX trams DULUX and
noise DULUX and oh hell here’s the
Cabaret let’s go dancing to rhythms and
drums shuffling and sweating and too tired
to walk home so a taxi with a radio
pounding rhumba and stay down Argen-
tine Way. But it was lousy, lousy, lousy,
and he meant to say goodnight tiredly and
not giving a damn and he said goodnight
tired and not giving a damn.
A. Jackson Thomas offers an anony-
mous “I” suffering in Wellington during
the Depression. Cynthia Aston, in
straightforward prose in which the New
Zealand landscape is pleasantly recog-
nisable, writes a depressed sketch about
a suffering young man who is glad to
get into the army to escape from his
father. These writers, one feels, would
end Gaskell’s story at the point where
Sammy is suffering in gaol.
Warmed though it is by Gaskell’s
comedy and by a lovely lyric from
A. R. D. Fairburn, New Zealand New
Writing is thus, as a whole, melancholy
and imitative. It js at once an indica-
tion of a most welcome resurgence of
the creative spirit in New Zealand (for
there is none of the writers without skill
and vigor) and an indication that most
of the writers are, so far, on the wrong
track.
In an essay included among the fiction,
M. H. Holcroft points out that, by forc-
ing some of them really to experience
life, to think and to create, the Depres-
sion was a boon to New Zealand writers.
It was, in fact, a godsend: it gave some
of them a subject to moan about ever
since. If one were to take this book as
symbolic of the New Zealand spirit, one
would have to find that the typical New
Zealander is a suffering, neurotic young
man, frustrated in life and love, living
alone in poverty in a city strangely like
Saroyan’s New York, and joining the
army not in any spirit of heroism or
sacrifice but simply as an escape from
the burden of responsibility. Surely
something is terribly wrong with that
picture!
The book (which is edited by a pro-
fessor of the University of New Zealand)
is closer to the Penguin format than any
yet seen.
N.Z. Best Poems.
Are poets in New Zealand split into
two camps? At this distance, from a
study of New Zealand New Writing and
E. H. McCormick’s Letters and Art in
New Zealand (representing the “modern-
ists”) and of New Zealand Best Poems
of 1942 (from which the modernists are
conspicuously absent) it looks as if there
might be a cleavage.
And if there is, it’s a great pity. For
in books that come overseas and are
likely to be interpreted as summing up
the contemporary achievement in New
Zealand letters, one would like to see the
whole force of the country represented,
not merely one side or the other. Of
the modernists represented in N.Z. New
Writing, J. R. Hervey alone appears also
in N.Z. Best Poems; Anton Vogt has
appeared in other years. The New Writ-
ing contributions of Allen Curnow,
A. R. D. Fairburn and lan Gordon would
have considerably strengthened the Best
Poems.
Mr. McCormick’s summing-up of
N.Z. Best Poems —“It is drawn from too
restricted a range of verse fully to justify
its title” —was ungenerous. The editor
and the publisher of the series, C. A.
Marris and H. H. Tombs, turning out a
lively volume year after year out of no
other motive than loyalty to New Zealand
literature, have given the most valuable
encouragement to the Dominion’s
writers and, as far as an overseas audi-
ence is concerned, have put New Zealand
poetry on the map. Mr. McCormick’s
own range was so restricted that he did
not even mention two of the country’s
finest poets, Eve Langley and Arnold
Wall: N.Z. Best Poems, on the other
hand, has never been exclusively tradi-
tional.
Nevertheless, there remains a modicum
of truth in Mr. McCormick’s criticism.
Excellent work by Eve Langley, Wall,
Hervey, Paula Hanger and Barbara Dent
does not alter the fact that the anthology
would be all the stronger for the inclu-
sion of some of the New Writing poets,
who, whatever their faults, are interesting
and vigorous.
Paula Hanger and Barbara Dent, com-
parative newcomers to C. A. Marris’s
anthology, steadily improve. Paula
Hanger has not quite found her feet yet,
but her “Three Fronts of War” (which
won the 1941 Jessie Mackay Memorial
prize) is full of life:
You that are lads of the green land, of plain
and of mountain,
What is the memory now that you see in the
sandstorm?
Whares of old bark asleep in a blue southern
dusk,
Smell of the scrub and the pines and the fresh
milk at morning,
Round-bellied farm mares that nuzzle the grass
by the creek,
Sheep gathered whitely to rest in the little home
gully,
Collie dogs rolling like youngsters in bracken
and fern . . .
By God, you will have these again.
Barbara Dent writes an extraordinarily
dramatic little poem in which Eve, the
eternal feminine, asks Adam to “Curl me
in your bosom, Like the old image of
the bird in nest,” and Adam replies;
The little vixen, the she-fox,
I sheltered her in my breast;
Now she devours my heart
In her sheltering nest.
But I shall not cry out
Lest they find her
Before I am dead
And snatch my she-fox
From out of her bed.
Lest they beat little vixen
And stone her to death,
For whom I am giving
My living breath.
Arnold Wall and Hervey are both
represented by poems which have ap-
peared in The Bulletin. Eve Langley,
remembering her native Australia, sub-
mits a lovely piece of landscape that
should find a place in next year’s Austra-
lian Poetry :
She has promised me, if I come back to her,
a horse baked black in the heat,
With red sunsets in its nostrils and white
moons in its eyes,
And a kangaroo dog to follow us on the rough
grey pads of his feet
And make the ranges down the river quiver
with his cries . . .
She has promised me, if I come back to her,
a hut on a hard dry hill,
With a cold black shadow at the back to rest
in on hot days.
Bronze eagles will move like hours through
her skies when the noons are still,
And at night in the hollows mosquito fires
will blaze.
SUNDRY SHOWS.
Customers of the Greatest Show on
Earth at Wirth’s Olympia in Melbourne
would hardly recognise the old joint from
its advertisements in the dailies. “Big
New Show of 1943 —Girls, Gorgeous,
Glittering, Glamorous, Glorious, Artistic,
Clever, Elegant, Appealing, etc.” No men-
tion of the monkeys, the talking horses,
the elephants, the tigers and the other
savage denizens of the jungle. But war’s
changes haven’t put the animals’ noses
out of joint altogether. Wirth’s still
smells the same, makes the old familiar
noises, the clowns still crack the old
chestnuts and Miss Wirth the whip, and
the elephants have learnt to make a
patriotic salute which enraptures the
assembled small boy.
Both at Sydney and Melbourne the
Tiv. always puts its whole heart into in-
venting new settings and ballets; and
among the tumblers, acrobats, musical
clowns and all the rest of the “turns” that
make the bulk of the programme there’s
always something new —or lively enough
to stay “new” for a good while. Mel-
bourne Showman, attending the Bourke-
street house, admired Clifford Guest’s
imitation of a foxhunt, Jack Mortimer’s
engaging fiddling with the fiddle and
Marjorie Lou’s dusky, seductive dances
allegedly from Hawaii. And at the cur-
rent Sydney show, the musical clown
Jandy plays pleasantly with his bells, the
four Renos throw themselves about with
grace, humor and no small amount of
drama, and the Crazy Builders, though
seen at the same game more than once
before, knock each other’s heads off with
such ferocious abandon that they con-
tinue to give infinite satisfaction to every-
one’s private imp of destructiveness.
But how long is it since the Tiv. top-
liners showed the same energy and imagi-
nation as the ballets and the rank ana
file? Only Bob Dyer and his “hillbillies”
have brought real gusto to the job in
recent months or given Tiv. programmes
as a whole any new direction. Jenny
Howard’s humor in the current Sydney
bill is too much in the English' music-
hall tradition really to appeal in Aus-
tralia, and her martial songs (“What a
party we’ll have when it’s over”) are in
the mood of the last war, not of this. Mo
(heading the Melbourne bill) is always the
ineffable Mo ; and he is thoroughly Aus-
tralian ; but he rarely turns on a new
act. Melbourne Showman found him sub-
dued, and sooner or later his brand of
bedroom farce will find its way to obli-
vion with Little Tich’s boots and the
sentimental pawkiness of Harry Lauder.
Before the vigor of the hillbillies gives an
American direction to Tiv. programmes,
the management should try to think up
some way of really giving Australian
humor a go. Why not the Australian out-
back instead of the American? The
Sydney audience showed how grateful it
was for anything Australian by roaring
with delight at the sprinkling of topicali-
ties—including the quip that love was the
only thing left in Australia not under
Mr. Dedman’s control.
The film version of A. J. Cronin’s first
and best novel. Hatter’s Castle (Sydney
Embassy), follows the original with rea-
sonable closeness. The old-style father
ruling his wife and family with a rod of
iron ; the daughter who is “done wrong”
and her subsequent casting out from the
house to the traditional fury of the storm
—many of the touches that endeared
“The Lights o’ London” to bustled and
mutton-chop-whiskered audiences are
here, though the stern parental cry of
“Go, and never darken my doors again!”
has somehow been overlooked. But
Cronin drew his characters powerfully
in Hatter’s Castle, and James Brodie, the
strong-willed, hypocritical hatter who is
wrecked by the results of his own domes-
tic tyranny and cruelty and his lust* to
“be somebody,” is a role right into the
barrow of Robert Newton, whose depic-
tion of the tyrant’s gradual descent to
madness is a strong piece of work. Good
support is given by Emlyn Williams and
Deborah Kerr.
A quartet of widely divergent comedies make
up the rest of the week’s talkie offerings.
“They All Kissed the Bride” (State) is a pot-
pourri of witty wisecracks and daffy situations,
with the smooth Melvyn Douglas setting out on
a shrew-taming expedition; “Week-end in
Havana” (Regent), a well-dressed, colored musi-
cal with at least one whistleable tune and un-
questionable proof that there are more attrac-
tive products in Havana than its cigars; “The
Lady Is Willing” (Lyceum), a rather mild baby-
adoption offering which owes more to Fred
Mac Murray’s blustering good humor than the
Dietrich’s tantrums; and “Girl Trouble” (May-
fair), which proves that snappy directing and
players skilled in comedy work, plus a fas-
cinating Scotch terrier which has the blase
air of one born on a set, can rise above the
handicap of a tenuous plot.
To follow the memorial show of the
late John Longstaff’s pictures, Director
Daryl Lindsay is proposing an exhibi-
tion of the late Hugh Ramsay’s paintings
at the Nat. Gallery, Melbourne. Hugh
Ramsay is scarcely even a name to the
modern public. He died young but full
of promise, and most of his work is in
private collections. He had many ad-
mirers. There is a self-portrait in the
national collection which depicts a long,
serious, but friendly face and a look of
quiet concentration.


'TRUTH IN ADVERTISING"
"THE SENIOR STORE"
ANTHONY HORDERNS’
119 Years of Service.
r£.
m
:v f
0. >m%-
'M
-
m
m*
• - ? | k,
n &
If
s m
tb
m
* i
48
f5S*
an
il
S tj>v
I '-V
’f r/f^Jj
JSvr
■_. ;: *i
r>
%> m& :
■,‘r£ x3&-y .< •
*"^:'-:-x : >;' .t*. <
*o*
'&h
COTTAGE WEAVE
CURTAIN SETS
Comprising two curtains
with centre valance at-
tached. Obtainable in at-
tractive horizontal stripings
in either Blue, Green, Brown
or Orange. No coupons
required. Price, set .. 32/6
mm »i
psjjt^gss:
r
■n
assr
' |S»«
:•
SCOTCH MADRAS
CROSSOVER CURTAINS
Muslin frill on the two sides and the base with a
frilled valance attached. Complete with ties.
Cream ground with coloured design in either Blue
or Orange. No coupons required. Price, set .. 25/-
COTTAGE WEAVE CUSHIONS
With fringed ends and filled with clean Australian
wool. In many striped and check effects. Obtain-
able in either Blue, Green, Brown, Rust or Orange.
No coupons required. Price, each 8/11
‘SUNDOUR” FADELESS FISHER NET
m
m
s
mm
W
Si
Heavy weight quality.
52 inches in width. An
ideal net for lounge
or dining room centre
curtains. Biscuit shades
only. No coupons re-
quired. At Anthony
Horderns'.
Price, yard 5/11
BRISE BISE NET
For short curtains, with pocket at the top for rod.
Good range of designs obtainable in Ivory or Biscuit
shades. No coupons required.
Lengths 18" 21" 24" 27" 30" 36"
Prices, yard 1/6 2/9 2/11 3/6 3/11 4/6
New carpets are scarce and costly! So take all the care you
can of your present ones. Have them cleaned and prolong their
days of useful service,,
We are Specialists in Carpet Cleaning!
Our hygienic process removes every particle of dirt, leaving carpets fresh
and bright. It will prolong the life of your carpets.
Remember, it's the unseen grime that makes carpets wear out. With every
step it is ground into the pile, weakening and cutting the fibres.
Our modern method of cleaning achieves far better results than are
possible by domestic means at your disposal.
We collect and re-deliver your carpets free in the metropolitan area.
PRICES: 6d. per square yard for beating; 1/6 square yard for shampooing.
Indian Carpets and Heavy Axminsters, from 2/3 square yard.
Telephone Carpet Cleaning Section— M 2401, or write and leave the rest to us.
ANTHONY
FAMOUS
Phone: M 2401 (Day and Night)
HORDERNS'
LOW PRICES
Post to Box 2712 C, G.P.0., Sydney


CHANGE OF FACE
By GAVIN S. CASEY.
T
I dial, I thought
when I met him.
He looked as if he’d
been around a bit and
liked a joke, and would probably have a
story or two of his own to tell.
“This is Jim Sadler, Ted,” Tom said.
“He goes up north for Wylie’s, an’ we
run into each other a bit when I’m out
that way.”
“I’ll say we do!” said Sadler, grinning.
“I’ve just got back. Nice, peaceful, sober
trip I had, because you weren’t about.”
“I’m going up next month,” Tom said.
“How’s the country looking?”
Sadler put his foot on the rail and
started to tell Tom all about it. I drank
the inch in the bottom of my schooner
and ordered a round for the three of us.
“It wasn’t too bright last year, in
spite of the rain,” Tom said.
“They’d had three years of drought,”
I reminded him. “It takes more than one
good year to have much effect.”
“That’s true,” Sadler agreed. “But
you ought to see it now! There’ll be
real money around after the shearing,
and there’s plenty of business right now.”
“Well, I might get some of it next
month,” said Tom, looking cheerful.
“That’s if you haven’t cleaned up the
lot.”
“Aw, I left a few scraps for you,”
Sadler chuckled. “Old Macpherson out
at Border Downs was asking when you’d
be along again.”
We settled down to some good steady
drinking then, and Tom and Sadler talked
about business, as good travellers always
do when they’ve grown out of the woman
stage and settled down. They talked
about drinking and gambling with the
squatters and the station managers in the
outback towns, and the state of the roads
and all the inland gossip. It didn’t bore
me, because I’ve been on the road my-
self. It made me remember the long,
lonely trips through the dust with the
back of the car filled to the roof with
samples, and the warm, lively welcomes
you get outback.
“How’s things at Walga Soak?” asked
Tom. “Did you collect any from old
Hendry?”
“I got a few quid, but he’s pretty well
up against it,” Sadler answered.
“I hope you left a few more for me,”
said Tom, looking anxious. “I won’t be
popular when I get back unless I raise
a few quid out of him.”
“He’ll do what he can,” Sadler assured
him. “You know old Hendry. He always
does his best.”
“Hell, yes!” said Tom. “Only you
can’t make our accountant see it.”
“You can’t make those cows see any-
thing,” Sadler growled. “They ought to
take a run out to the Soak, and see the
grin drop off poor old Hendry’s face
when he recognises a visitor as someone
who’s sure to ask for a cheque sooner
or later.”
Neither of them said anything for a
little while after that, and Sadler took
a long drink. You could see he was
worrying about old Hendry. He looked
a good sort, and I could imagine that he
was still on the road at his age, instead
of sitting behind a big desk, because he
wasn’t the kind that could make the
words “business is business” the excuse
for anything. He looked kind and easy-
going and worried, and, though I’d only
known him for half an hour or so, I felt
he was the sort of chap I could like a lot.
“The bank’ll get him, and we’ll all get
something then,” said Sadler after a
while.
“He should have sold out to Eureka
Pastoral six years ago when he had the
chance,” said Tom.
“Things were good then. Nobody up
north sold out six years ago,” Sadler
explained.
Another round came up, and their talk
shifted to other men and matters, but I
didn’t follow it very closely. I’d never
met this chap Hendry, of course, but I
could imagine just the sort of old battler
he’d be. I could imagine Sadler handling
him, too. He’d hate doing it, I thought,
but he’d ask for the cheque just about as
soon as he arrived, and get it over and
done with, so that the whole of his stay
at Walga Soak wouldn’t be spoiled for
the old boy. After that was over they’d
settle down to smoking and yarning like
the old cobbers they were, and I was
pretty sure that a visit from Sadler always
did the old chap good, in spite of the
financial side of it. Sadler had a wise,
experienced face, as well as a lively,
humorous one.
MY turn to buy came around again,
and as I shoved the schooners over
the bar and groped for some coins I
began to get back on the thread of what
Tom and Sadler were talking about.
“How did you find things on the gold-
fields?” Tom was asking.
“Aw, you can’t help getting business
there,” Sadler said, without any enthu-
siasm.
“Jim doesn’t like the ’fields,” Tom ex-
plained to me, with a shrewd look in his
eye and after a bite.
“Damn’ dirty hole!” said Sadler
before I could answer. “There’s always
money about, but I can never get away
from the joint quick enough.”
Reaching for the beer, I felt the back
of my neck starting to burn, and Tom
looked uncomfortable, as if he wished
he hadn’t started the subject, I come
from the ’fields, and if you come from
there you’ve got a license to run the place
down, but nobody else can when you’re
around. I bite too easy on that subject,
and I made up my mind that this time I
wouldn’t go off half-cock.
“I’d have thought you’d like the ’fields,”
I said. “They’re much the same sort of
blokes you get further north, only they’re
all in a bunch instead of scattered from
here to kingdom come.”
“Like hell, they are!” snorted Sadler.
“Booze artists an’ crooks is more like
it. They give me a pain.”
“Ted comes from the ’fields. His
home-town’s up there,” said Tom in a
hurry, seeing trouble on the way.
“Gripes, I’m sorry if that’s so,” said
Sadler, not looking particularly broken-
hearted.
“He thinks it’s Christmas every day of
the year on the ’fields,” Tom went on,
trying to pass it off in a joke. “He even
reckons duststorms are good for your
lungs.”
“Well, he can’t be that keen on the
place. He’s not living there, I notice,”
said Sadler with a silly sort of laugh.
Now that’s the sort of gibe every
idiot who doesn’t like the ’fields makes,
and it didn’t come well from Sadler.
There are hundreds of reasons why a
man doesn’t live in a place he’s keen
about, and any fool should know them.
I glared at Sadler, and I could see that
I was up against some sort of prejudice
that had its roots in ground I hadn’t
travelled.
“What don’t you like about it, any-
way?” I asked. “What’s wrong with the
booze-artists? Can’t you stand the
pace?”
That one made him go red, and I could
see I’d found a tender spot. He didn’t
look so wise and experienced any more.
He just looked like a middle-aged travel-
ler who was full of small, silly vanities
about his sales figures and his bush driv-
ing and his drinking powers.
“Don’t you worry about that, son,”
he said, still trying to be superior. “Any-
one who can see a session out with the
station men up north doesn’t have any
trouble with the goldfields larrikins.”
There was something over-respectful
in the way he said “station men,” and I
picked on that.
“Oh, I see your trouble,” I said. “You
can mix with the heads up north where
they’ve got no other company, but you
don’t like the ’fields because the silver-
tails there can afford to be a bit fussier.”
“For love of Mike!” Tom barged in.
“Break it down, you pair of goats. What
the hell are you trying to start, Ted?”
But Tom was a bit too late. Sadler
was trembling with rage and just about
purple. He looked pretty foolish, not
much like the sort of man I’d imagined
him to be at all. I didn’t get much fun
out of the change from a chap I’d
thought I’d get on well with, but I
reckoned I could remember a hundred
better men than him among the crowd
he’d called booze-artists and swindlers,
and I wasn’t having any of his talk about
the goldfields.
“If I was a bit younger I’d give you
a punch on the snout,” Sadler said. Then
he put his half-finished schooner back
on the counter and walked out, looking
red and venomous, with narrow eyes and
a mean line to his mouth, altogether dif-
ferent from the way he’d looked when
I’d first met him.
“Hell’s bells!” said Tom, pretty upset.
“That was a nice sort of a show to put
on.”
“You were looking for a bite. Well,
you got it,” I grunted.
“Well, I knew you were half mad
about your bloody goldfields, but if I’d
known you were altogether mad I
wouldn’t have started it.”
1 didn’t want to quarrel with Tom, too,
but 1 had to stick up for myself. “A
sanctimonious, narrow-minded swab like
that would make anyone mad,” I said,
pretty angrily.
“Rot!” said Tom. “Old Sadler’s a
pretty good bloke, and I thought you d
have enough brains to realise it.”
“Pretty good bloke! ” I sneered. He s
just a windbag, only I woke up to him
quicker than most.
yoM and I have been cobbers for a
1 long time, but by the time we got
that far we were glaring at each other
and beginning to shout. We’d had a
good few before Sadler arrived, and we
weren’t far off half-potted, anyway.
“That’s what you’d say about anyone
who wasn’t struck on your precious
goldfields, I s’pose?” snorted Tom.
“It’s a fair enough description for any-
one who runs the place down without
rhyme or reason, like that clown,” I
came back.
“He’s probably got as good a reason
for disliking that place as you have for
liking it, if you only knew,” Tom roared.
“Why didn’t he say so, then?” I asked.
“All he did was snigger and make fool
remarks about booze-artists and swmd-
. , •
You didn t give him time to explain
anything,” Tom said. You were at
him before he’d got two words out of
his mouth. You didn’t expect him to
come over all sweet and reasonable after
the things you said, did you?”
Of course, I knew I’d gone off half-
cock again, but you know those things
without any temptation to admit them
when you’re really wild. I sank my
beer to gain time, and started again,
“You only had to watch his face to see
the sort he was,” I said. “He’s a nice-
looking, friendly-looking bloke all right
when nothing ruffles him. But what a
mean-looking cow he changed into as
soon as I got under his skin a bit!”
“Hell! You make me sick! ” said
Tom. He thumped his glass on the
counter, pretty much the way Sadler had
done, and he turned away to stalk out
of the place.
I daresay he’d have gone, too, and we’d
have been bad friends over it all, only
before he’d reached the swing doors I’d
started to laugh. What
made me laugh was
something that gave me
a fright for a moment. It
was a face that glared
straight at me as soon as
Tom stepped away from the bar. It
took me easily a second to recognise that
it was my own, staring out of the big
bar mirror that had been behind Tom's
head.
Generally, I’m just an ordinary-looking
sort b i oke , but I do kid myself that
j wear a friendly, sensible expression,
But at t ba t m oment there was about as
much friendliness and sense in my dial
as you’d expect to see when a mad bull
looked at you. My eyes and my chin
we re sticking out, and my face was red.
My hair was standing on end with anger,
and it was obvious that no man who
looked like that would ever listen to
reason.
it looked a lot better when I laughed
at ft, a nd the laugh brought Tom back,
too.
“that’s all the mirth about?” he
asked. He still sounded exasperated, but
alread the violent rage had dropped out
f him - st as jt ba d dropped out of me.
ul ’ l was a clown a f ter all,” I
o right backj and planked
& of bob = on the bar , “Hell. It
W as all mv fault, really. I should know
™s a y y
h elds > ne sd • , ,
I felt warm towards Tom, because nes
always pretty good at accepting e
blame for anything once his annoy-
ance simmers down, and 1 .
pretty unhappy about the oacller nusi-
ness. He probably did a j
good cause to hate the fields as 1 na
to like them. There are two sldes t 0
the goldfields, and nobody knows it
better than me. The easy, sympathetic
face Sadler had worn when he was talk-
ing about old Hendry up at Walga boat
had been his proper one, and the savage
way I’d attacked a trifling prejudice ha
moulded the other one. 1 felt sorry that
it was so unlikely, now, that Id ever
get to know Sadler better. But as the
barmaid brought the drinks along, ana
we began to poke our talk on to safer
ground, I was pretty glad that a bit ot
luck had stopped my cranky temper from
provoking a brawl with Tom, too.
TANKER
By “BUNGAREE BOATMAN.”
THE convoy was making seven knots.
At least the commodore’s ship was
making seven knots, and the others
were backing and filling in an
endeavor to maintain their allotted posi-
tions. The tanker was in the centre
of the convoy, and the job of keeping
her there was a constant headache to the
mate on watch. To second engineer Mr.
Bob Uhr, who had the first dogwatch, it
didn’t matter at all. He leant against the
engine-room ladder, listening to the
steady beat of his Diesels and thinking of
one thing only—fifty miles and they’d
be there ; fifty miles and a spell ashore ;
fifty miles and another trip over.
There was only the thought of those
last fifty miles after some 12,000 and the
knowledge of his engines in his mind ;
nothing of the fact that theirs was about
the most hazardous occupation on the
ocean, that above him the characteristic
silhouette of the tanker’s superstructure
made her easily recognisable at night.
He thought nothing of that, and he heard
nothing of the ominous drone that sud-
denly drew every eye of all those on
duty topside in the whole convoy in the
one direction.
It came of a sudden above the noise
of the fitful gusts of wind blowing
through the rigging, and the voice of
the look-out came almost as its accom-
paniment; “Aircraft bearing green three
oh, sir!”
Gun crews that had been closed up in
watches for the last six weeks were
already training their guns in the direc-
tion of the ’plane. Twice it circled
round the convoy ; then, swinging in low,
it made for the tanker. The first bomb
hit her just aft of the forecastle, the
second just forward of the centre castle ;
then the ’plane was away, leaving the
tanker wallowing, flames leaping already
astern and astern, steering gear and
engine-room telegraph out of action.
T T all had happened as quickly as that.
1 Those of the tanker’s crew who were
on deck had leapt to the water before
the ’plane was out of her climb, and the
nearest ships of the convoy raced in to
pick them up. But down aft in the engine-
room, although the alarm for action sta-
tions had been given, the shock of the
bombs exploding for’ard was hardly felt.
Bob Uhr and his men might have been
there yet if the second had not sent a
greaser up to see what was doing. He
gave the alarm, the engines were stopped
and the watch raced up and overside to
swim to a waiting trawler.
But Bob Uhr was worried. He hadn't
had time to collect any gear. All his pos-
sessions, including his precious engineer s
ticket, were likely to go up with the
flames, and, besides, he’d liked his ship.
From the trawler he had a wireless mes-
sage flashed in those fifty miles for a
fire-float to be sent out. It seemed like a
waste of time, but he had it done.
Six hours later the fire-float appeared
through the gloom. The tanker’s topsides
had by this time been completely gutted;
the ammunition stored ready for use had
been blowing up at intervals, tearing
great gashes in her plates and bulkheads;
her rails, stanchions and miscellaneous
deck gear had been buckled and twisted
into a seething mass of disorder. She
had suffered the agony of a soul tor-
mented, but she still lived. The fire-float
came up alongside her port quarter,
thousands of gallons of water and chemi-
cals were poured into her, and, slowly,
working like fiends from Dante’s Inferno,
the firemen worked their way for’ard.
Three days later the tanker was towed
slowly to an anchorage in an English
port.
Then a job of work began for Mr.
Bob Uhr and his greasers. They settled
down to the colossal task of clearing the
mess of chemicals and burnt paint from
the engine-room. At the end of a week
they had induced all the auxiliaries to
work, and a fortnight later the tanker
steamed on to her original destination
with a jury rudder and only a twelfth
of her precious cargo missing. In three
months’ time, with completely new top-
sides and fittings, she headed to sea on
another voyage. Mr. Bob Uhr was n°
longer with her; he had sailed on an-
other tanker almost two months before.


The Bulletin
Vol. 64.—N0. 3288.
Wednesday, February 17, 1943.
LEST WE FORGET!
(February 15 was the first anniversary of the fall of Singapore.)


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper
“Australia for the White Man”
Directors:
H. K. Prior J. E. Webb
P. H. Prior David Adams
HEAD OFFICE: 252 George Street. Sydney:
Box 2521 BB; ’Phone 87971
Victoria: Newspaper House, 247-249 Collins
Street, Melbourne.
Queensland; 239 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
Westralia : 33 Barrack Street, Perth.
New Zealand: Nathan’s Buildings ( opp.
G.P.0.) Wellington.
London: 1 Hare Place t 47 Fleet Street.
London, E.C.4.
CASABLANCA AND AFTER.
There was a significant passage in a
London “Times” article on the anniver-
sary of the outbreak of war in the
Pacific. The writer, “a correspondent
lately in Japan,” pointed out that “there
have always been some hardheads among
the Japanese hotheads,” and that “the
hardheads” calculated not only on the
Japs gaining swift and sweeping victories,
as they did, but on their conserving “most
of the gains in the face of opponents
war-weary after their conflict with
Hitler.”
This calculation has received some justifi-
cation from the apparent lack of British
interest in the Far Eastern war during
the last six months. The Prime Minister’s
broadcast [of November 29] has shown
this calculation to be mistaken.
“Mistaken” may be right, but it is im-
probable that “the hardheads” were
seriously disturbed. The broadcast was the
one in which Mr. Churchill visualised the
consummation of the “Beat Hitler First”
programme and the succeeding course of
events:
It may well be that the war in Europe
will come to an end before the war in
Asia. If events should take such a course
we should at once bring all our forces to
the other side of the world to the aid of
the United States, to the aid of China,
and above all to the aid of our kith and
kin in Australia and New Zealand in their
valiant struggle against the aggressions of
Japan. While we were thus engaged in
the Far East we should be sitting, with the
United States and Russia and those of the
United Nations concerned, shaping the in-
ternational instruments and national settle-
ments which must be devised if the free
life of Europe is ever to rise again.
This would be a strange and unprece-
dented division of labors and responsibili-
ties, and the omission of Russia from
the list of countries to be aided by the
transfer “of all our forces to the other
side of the world,” which could scarcely
be accomplished “at once,” is remark-
able, however politic. If Russia were
free to concentrate on the affairs of
Europe while the English-speaking nations
were fighting Japan to the point of “un-
conditional surrender” Russia would be
on an exceptionally good wicket, espe-
cially as these Dominions would be so
occupied with the unbeaten enemy that
they would be unable to take part in the
European discussions, except at the cost
of appearing ridiculous.
According to Walter Duranty, “con-
sidered to bo the outstanding authority
on Russia,” and certainly the doyen of
foreign correspondents in that country,
“what Stalin really wants is not con-
cerned with Europe.” In that continent,
Germany defeated and the Red Army
perhaps in Berlin, Stalin would be “in-
terested only in holding the Baltic States
and getting access to Istanbul and the
Persian Gulf” —which suggests not only,
that Mr. Duranty fails to understand
what “access to Istanbul” would mean,
but is deficient in a working knowledge
of Asian geography. But let him pro-
ceed :
Stalin’s interest is focused on the Far
East. He desires to establish independent
Soviet republics in Manchuria, Korea, and
even north-western China, whether Chiang
Kai-shek likes it or not. His outstanding
post-war aim is to control the western
Pacific —in other words, the Chinese coast.
He is not opposed to the British recovering
Singapore and Hong Kong as long as the
Russians hold Port Arthur and Dairen.
A truly ambitious programme, but its
realisation depends on an event which has
not come to pass. In the carefree fashion
of foreign correspondents, Mr. Duranty
is ready for that objection. Neutrality
agreement notwithstanding, he predicts
that “as soon as German pressure on
Russia is reduced, and as soon as the
Allies are willing and able to put at least
1000 first-line ’planes, with pilots and
ground crews, into Vladivostok, the Rus-
sians will co-operate in our deathstroke
against Japan.”
There may be something in it; and it
is inconceivable that Russian participa-
tion in the war in the Pacific has been
excluded from the plans of the Anglo-
American leaders. It can scarcely have
been barred from Mr. Churchill’s own
discussions with Stalin. Be that as it may,
the Prime Minister, back in London from
Casablanca, Turkey, Cyprus and Tripoli-
tania, said in the House of Commons,
while regretting that “Stalin was not with
us,” that “our duty is to aid to the utmost
the Russians’ tremendous efforts and try
to draw the enemy from the Russian
front.” “This,” he added, “was accepted
at Casablanca as a primary objective after
the U-boat problem has been solved.
The U-boat fight has priority in all the
Anglo-American plans, and this was ex-
pressively reaffirmed at Casablanca” —as
it should have been. But “the British and
American strategists are unanimous that
the breaking of the German power must
have priority over a decisive blow again
Japan.”
It seems naive, as well as hazardous
to the countries concerned, this country
above all, thus to acquaint the Japanese
with the intentions of Mr. Churchill and
Mr. Roosevelt—if they are their inten-
tions. On this point doubts are
suggested by another Churchill statement
that, as a result of Casablanca, “we now
have a complete plan of action, embrac-
ing the apportionment and distribution
of forces,” and by the further announce-
ment that the “Casablanca talks were fol-
lowed by important Anglo-American staff
conferences with General Chiang Kai-
shek in Chungking and Field-Marshal
Wavell in India.” At these conferences,
it seems, the generalissimo and the field-
marshal were apprised by Sir John Dill
and Lieut.-General Arnold of “the
plans made at Casablanca for a mighty
war effort against Japan,” and “complete
accord was reached in the co-ordination
of offensive plans.” Pertinent also is the
fact that General MacArthur is to confer
with Field-Marshal Wavell, and not at
an isolated meeting.
No doubt the Australian Government
will be fully informed of what is pro-
posed. If the “complete plan of action”
fails to satisfy it, remonstrances will be
useless. Australian influence on war
policy has been small from the beginning,
though if representation on an Imperial
War Council (in effect, a renewal of a right
freely accorded by Mr. Lloyd George
in the last war) had been insisted upon at
the beginning it need not have been.
Now that the world is acquainted with
the terms of the Militia Hopscotch Bill
and with the facts of the sorry debate in
the House of Representatives, Australian
influence on war policy is likely to be
smaller still. Australians can only hope
that their situation and that of New
Zealand received greater attention at
Casablanca than has been disclosed, and
that the “complete plan of action” will
be justified by events, political as well as
military.
Meanwhile “the apparent lack” of
American “interest” in the war in the
Pacific has been noted in the U.S.A. Mr.
Roosevelt, in a Lincoln Day speech heard
in Australia, said “there are many roads
to Tokyo, and we are not going to neglect
any of them.” These words, and others
of the kind, prompted the New York
“Times” to declare “the President has
scotched the unworthy rumor that we
have become so intent on fighting the
war in Europe that we have forgotten
about the war in Asia.”
The Old Man Leads Again.
It was asserted by one of those slap-
dash reporters that the author of the
Beveridge social-security plan purposed
taking Britain “halfway to Moscow.”
He repudiated the expression and the in-
tention, and particulars of his scheme,
at last available in Australia, bear him
out. In effect, he aims at amplifying
and liberalising existing British services.
Though he proposes administrative
changes, “the present disconnected admin-
istrative organs” being too complex and
costly—as they are in Australia —and
would set up a Ministry of Social Secu-
rity, working through “local security
offices within reach of all insured per-
sons,” he would retain “friendly societies
and trade-unions giving sickness benefits
as responsible agents.”
Sir William Beveridge was guided by
three leading principles:
The first is that any proposals for the
future, while they should use to the full
the experience gathered in the past, should
not be restricted by consideration of sec-
tional interests established in the obtaining
oi that experience.
The second is that organisation of social
insurance should be treated as one part
only of a comprehensive policy of social
progress. Social insurance, fully developed,
may provide income security; it is an
attack upon Want. But Want is one only
of five giants on the road of reconstruction,
and in some ways the easiest to attack.
The others are Disease, Ignorance, Squalor
and Idleness.
The third is that social security must be
achieved by co-operation between the State
and the individual The State should
offer security for . service and contribution.
In organising security it should not stifle in-
centive, opportunity, responsibility; in
establishing a national minimum, it should
leave room and encouragement for volun-
tary action by each individual to provide
more than that minimum for himself and
his family.
One of the “sectional interests” assailed
is industrial assurance, which has reached
the position in Britain that “nearly 90
per cent, of the business is concentrated
in eight large offices.” While admitting
that it has meritorious features, Sir Wil-
liam Beveridge rejects it on the score of
administrative waste (“in 1939, premiums
received were over £74,000,000 and ex-
penses of management were nearly
£24,000,000”) and lapsing of policies
(“before the present war about 10,000,000
policies were issued annually, and
about 6,750,000 ended prematurely;
about 325,000 were forfeited outright”).
He condemns also the present system of
workmen’s compensation, which “rests
in the last degree on the threat or the
practice of litigation” (as it does in Aus-
tralia), and “has contributed little or no-
thing to the most important purpose of
all —restoration of the injured employee
to the greatest possible degree of produc-
tion and earning as soon as possible.”
Industrial assurance he would convert
into a public service under an Industrial
Insurance Board. Workmen’s compen-
sation he would place “within the unified
social insurance scheme,” with a special
levy on employers in industries scheduled
as having more than the normal risk of
accident or disease and with “statutory
associations of employers and employees
to promote safety.”
In substance, the plan covers all citi-
zens “without upper income limit,” but
“has regard to their different ways of
life.” Where persons are employed under
contract of service weekly payments pro-
posed are 4s. for girls and ss. for boys
of 16 and 17; ss. and 6s. 3d. in the
18-20 group ; 6s. and 7s. 6d. for those
21 and upwards, employers’ contributions
ranging from 2s. to 3s. 3d. “Others
gainfully occupied, including employers,
traders and independent workers of all
kinds,” are to pay 2s. to 4s. 3d. according
to sex and age, and “others of working
age not gainfully occupied” Is. 6d. to
3s. 9d. In these cases the State is to
make up the difference. The cost of the
present schemes is reckoned at
£432,000,000 in 1945, and if the Beveridge
plan is introduced in that year the State’s
increased liability is estimated at
£86,000,000, rising to £161,000,000 in 20
years. Eighty-six million sounds a lot,
but per head of population it is less than
Canberra’s special grant to Tasmania.
First on the list of benefits is “free
medical and hospital treatment of all
kinds for every citizen.” Dental care is
not excluded, nor is “post-medical re-
habilitation”: it is proposed to establish
convalescent homes for whole families.
Other benefits are here summarised, the
standard being a family of four:
Industrial disability: 565. per week for
13 weeks, followed by a pension of two-
thirds of earnings up to 765. per week and
not less than 565. per week, with no com-
pounding for total disability.
Disability other than industrial; 565. per
week without time limit or means test.
Unemployment: 565. per week without
time limit or means test, but subject to
attendance at a training centre if unemploy-
ment is prolonged.
Maternity: £4, plus 365. per week for 13
weeks where the wife is gainfully occupied.
Funeral: £2O; smaller sums for children.
Widowhood: 525. per week for the first
13 weeks without reduction; afterwards
405., reduced by part of any earnings.
(“There is no reason,” Sir William Beve-
ridge notes, “why a childless widow should
get a pension for life; if she is able to
work, she should work.”)
Old age: 14s. for a single man (255. for
man and wife), rising by Is. per week
(Is. 6d. for man and wife) every two
years to 245. and 40s.
There are, of course, many other pro-
visions. Among them are children’s
allowances (Bs. for each child of a pen-
sioned parent, and for the first child in
other cases, with graded payments for
other children in these classes) and allow-
ances for guardians and for unemployed
or disabled persons’ dependants who have
ceased to qualify for children’s allow-
ances. And there are to be marriage
grants of up to £lO, according to the
number of contributions.
“The scheme,” according to Sir William
Beveridge, is “in some ways a revolution,
but in more important ways it is a natural
development from the past. It is a
British revolution.” Fine words for a fine
thing, worthy of study in all English-
speaking communities, which all prefer
the British way to the wild way of
violence, so apt to lead, soon or late, to
destruction, whether in the form of civil
war or foreign war or both. Adapted to
Australian conditions, with safeguards
against Idleness, it would be a decided
improvement on the present chaotic col-
lection of social services to which addi-
tions are made from time to time, gener-
ally—as now at Canberra —when an elec-
tion is in sight.
Liability to Serve.
For days on end, with further days
off for thinking it over in between,
“representatives of the people” at Can-
berra aired their views on the Militia
Hopscotch Bill without perceiving that
their talking centred on a false issue.
Some of this failure of perception might
be attributed to lack of honesty;
the bulk of it looked like stupidity.
Whatever the explanation, the spectacle
presented to the public was that of a
succession of supposed statesmen get-
ting up ip turn and, in the evident con-
viction that they were behaving and talk-
ing like heirs to the wisdom of all the
ages, spouting so much irrelevant hot air.
The false issue was that, with the pass-
ing of any such bill, every man in uni-
form in the country would be thereby
automatically transported to such scene
of action as the bill prescribed. The
fact is that this bill has merely to do with
liability to serve. Were the geographical
limits struck out the country’s respon-
sible controllers would still have incon-
testable authority to say how many men
they were warranted in sending in any
given set of circumstances, and how
many they were warranted in keeping at
home.
This, in fact, is one of the main vir-
tues of compulsory service as against the
so-called “voluntary system.” Under
this latter “system” a very large body of
men has been raised. The natural assump-
tion on everybody’s part —including that
of the genuine volunteers themselves—
is that the whole of this force must be
sent away to fight. This assumption is
so grounded in the voluntary force that
one of the main difficulties in the train-
ing period is to keep the men contented
while they are learning the rudiments of
their job. Their inclination is to get
dissatisfied, thinking that they are being
merely messed around and will never get
away. Others —from the general run of
people to supposed seers at Can-
berra —accept it as something to be taken
for granted that this whole force, having
volunteered, must be sent away.
With the country’s fighting forces
raised on a general compulsory basis
there would be no such assumption. To-
wards a single, compulsorily-raised army
there would be an entirely different out-
look. It would then be accepted that
the forces to be sent away would be
decided on by the country’s controllers,
having all the facts and circumstances
before them.
Apart from the only too-evident readi-
ness to send away the entire voluntary
body, however great their sacrifice, merely
because they volunteered, that is really
what the actual position is today under
the Militia Hopscotch Bill, and what it
would be under any such bill, or
under such amendments as those put
forward. The country’s responsible
controllers assuming they merit the
name, and are not merely bondservants
to expediency—will decide on the
facts and needs before them how many
of the country’s forces will be sent to
any part included in the limited-liability
bill. Under the powers reposed in them
by Parliament it rests with them
to determine just what this country’s
contribution to the war effort shall be.
They showed their authority in this re-
gard by bringing the great bulk of the
A.I.F. back from the Middle East. They
have even stronger authority—indeed,
final authority—in saying how many of
Australia’s forces shall henceforth serve
outside Australia. There is only one
conditioning factor —the moral factor that
the contribution shall be worthy.
The truth is that, with or without this
wretched bill, Australia is thus far essen-
tially in the same position as the other
United Nations. Each of them also
puts limitations on its war contribution.
Britain has a huge army in Britain for
the defence of Britain. America has
forces in many parts of the world, but
far more in America. Russia has huge
forces in the Far East, but is not using
them against Japan. Canada looks more
over the Atlantic than over the Pacific,
and also has the bulk of its forces at
home. New Zealand has garrison troops
in parts of the Pacific where there are
no Australians, but Australians are
fighting in parts where there are no New
Zealanders. South Africa’s forces are
restricted to Africa, with now a volun-
tary system to operate beyond.
The stigma on Australia is that others
of the Allied countries do not fix on
map limits for the using of their con-
scripted forces. The Government at
Canberra proposes this; therefore,
Australia’s name is mud. Yet it
is seen that all countries on the Allied
side positively set limits. The only dif-
ference is that Australia’s limits are pre-
scribed and proclaimed ; the rest operate
their limits without entering them in the
Statute Book. Their limits are none the
less real for all that.
Another view can be taken of it. Up
to date, Australia has without question
—in quality and quantity—done as much
proportionately as almost any other
country in the Allied set-up. If Aus-
tralia insisted on the Curtin map boun-
daries for ever, this might in time no
longer hold good. It does, however, hold
good today ; and those who, because of
the miserable doings at Canberra, are
cocking their snouts in the air when this
country’s name is mentioned should not
forget it.
OLD DIGGER.


PLAIN ENGLISH
Expediency the Winner.
After all the alarums and excursions
only one amendment to the Militia Hop-
scotch Bill was voted on in the House.
It was Mr. A. G. Cameron’s amendment
for the striking out of all territorial
limits ; and it was defeated by 56 to 13.
Among the noes were conscriptionists,
anti-conscriptionists (notably Mr. Ward
and Mr. Calwell) and betwixt-and-
betweeners; the ayes consisted of the
five staunch S.A. Opposition members
and Messrs. Coles, Ryan, Stewart, Marr,
Prowse, Menzies, Spender and Harrison.
Mr. Fadden’s predecessor and the two
ex-Ministers had just previously re-
signed from the Opposition executive.
Mr. Menzies and Mr. Spender explained
at some length that, although they had
been parties to three Opposition-executive
resolutions favoring acceptance of the
smeared page in the annals of Austra-
lian history” (Mr. Fadden’s choice words
for Militia Hopscotch), the chidings of
political conscience could be resisted no
longer. These artless revelations were
made in a rowdy atmosphere, and, if the
indignant Mr. Fadden asked whether any-
one had heard a cock crow, his voice was
drowned. Such an interjection, had Mr.
Cameron chosen to utter it, would have
been appropriate during almost every
speech.
So the thing went to the Senate, where
Senator McLeay, as a counter-manoeuvre,
had introduced a measure of his own.
A clause in the National Security Act,
fathered in June, 1940, by Mr. Menzies,
empowers the Governor-General to
issue “such regulations making provision
for”
requiring persons to place themselves, their
services and their property at the disposal
ot the Commonwealth as appear to him to
be necessary or expedient for securing the
public safety, the defence of the Common-
wealth and the territories oT the Common-
wealth or the efficient prosecution of any
war in which his Majesty is or may be en-
gaged.
Provided that nothing in this section shall
authorise the imposition of any form of
compulsory service beyond the limits of
Australia.
Senator McLeay proposes that the last
sentence should be struck out. Behind
him are eight Digger Senators and other
Opposition members to whom —as to so
many other Australians —the Militia Hop-
scotch Bill is an insufferable outrage.
Unfortunately, Senator Crawford has
separated himself from them, as he has
done on other occasions, and the old
gentleman from Queensland has the
deciding vote.
In this sixteenth Parliament of the
Commonwealth there are now at least
two Ministerial parties and three Oppo-
sition parties. Though whatever useful-
ness it had is clearly exhausted it will
have to be suffered till July, otherwise
there would be polling for the House
this year and for the Senate next year.
That should mean a winter election. It
will be no winter of discontent if it gives
Australia not only anew Parliament but
a national Government.
Exit from Guadalcanal.
On February 9 it was given out in Wash-
ington that, “after six months of some of
the bloodiest fighting of the war in the
Pacific,” the Japs had been wiped off
Guadalcanal. Both the Japs and the
“Jap-superman” bogey took a licking.
American losses have been one to ten in
men, less than one to five in ships, and one
to seven in ’planes.
That should wipe the “superman”
bogey for keeps, since only better fight-
ing quality can produce such results. It
does not, of course, wipe the Jap menace,
since the Japs have the numbers to afford
such losses and still come on. It does,
however, make Australia’s position incal-
culably better than this would have been
but for the American thrust in the Solo-
mons, where the Jap thrust was at the
time well on the way towards the objec-
tive of cutting America-Australia com-
munications.
The cleaning-up of Guadalcanal brings
off at least one war prophecy—on Feb-
ruary 1 Colonel Knox forecast that all
Jap organised resistance there would be
finished within 30 days. In this and in
other parts of his statement the Secretary
of the Navy appeared to be replying to
Mr. Curtin, who had on January 26
declared that “the enemy with all his
strength is now assailing the outer fringe
of the islands adjacent to Australia”;
if these went, Australians would be faced
with a struggle “on their own soil,” with
“the enemy in command of all the sea
approaches.” Mr. Curtin went so far as
to imply that “the long coastline of the
Americas from Alaska to Cape Horn”
would also be in jeopardy.
Though the Prime Minister declined
to specify what he meant by “outer
fringes,” nobody could possibly exclude
the Solomons from what he had in mind.
Hence Colonel Knox’s reply, now splen-
didly borne out.
On January 27 Mr. Curtin came out
with another “grave warning.” On Feb-
ruary 1 there was a whole splurge of
“warnings.” Two days later Parliament
met, and once it got going the whole
outbreak died down.
There’s no doubt about the Jap
menace. The teeming numbers of armed
Japs make that positive. But it’s on all
the time. It’s not a fluctuating menace.
It does not get bad just on Parliament
eve and then vanish overnight. It calls
for every possible effort Australians can
make. But that effort is not helped by
these periodical scare outbursts, followed,
as they always are, by intervals of silence,
punctuated only by political dogfights.
Niggardly Pensions Rise.
Diggers will certainly not be satisfied
with the 20 per cent, increase in pension
rates provided for in the Repatriation
Amendment Bill. The increase is both
niggardly and belated.
No time was lost by the Curtin Gov-
ernment in increasing old-age and other
such pensions. Had the 20 per cent, in-
crease for Diggers been put through as
promptly it might have been approxi-
mately adequate at the time. It is no-
where near adequate now, and will be
less so later.
The feeling of Diggers on the matter
was strongly expressed at the all-Aus-
tralia congress in Sydney last November.
The need for an increase was the first
general subject the congress tackled. In
one aspect and another it was thrashed
out over the first couple of days.
Even stronger expression of Digger
feeling came out at the Sydney Town
Hall meeting in January. The proposed
20 per cent, increase was declared “en-
tirely inadequate.”
All legislation touching on the men
who do the fighting and make the sacri-
fices should be founded on the principle
that, through their incomparable service
to the country, they have a positive right
to special consideration. There is no
recognition of this in the current pen-
sions legislation, nor any sign that it is
recognised in the general attitude of the
present Government. It seems to be con-
sidered enough to rate fighting men on
an equal footing with home-front war-
workers.
The Uncommon Mon.
You never hear him mentioned in these
wonderful outlines of post-war recon-
struction, though he’s there, right behind
the dreams of Labor politicians, for he's
the fellow who’ll have to supply the
doings. Plenty has been heard about the
common man, about his right to live, his
right to be free, his right to social secu-
rity and so forth, but he isn’t going to
get any of them unless the uncommon
man is given a fair go.
If this country is to come through the
post-war period with its tail up it will
have to look to the man game enough
to stake his toil, his skill and his money
on his own private ventures in industry
and trade. This ought to be obvious to
politicians, whose means of financing
their post-war Utopias are borrowing and
taxation —taxation that must depend for
its greatest revenue on successful industry.
Successful industry boils down to the
fellow who strikes out for himself, care-
less alike of the opinions of others or
the rules of labor-unions —the fellow who
is willing to put a few pounds into shares
so as to build up companies to engage
in industry or who is willing to build up
an enterprise on an idea, his savings and
his faith. These people, given a square
deal, will see to it that Australia survives
the war.
The great countries of the world today
are those which have recognised the vital
importance of private enterprise, and in
the coming spate of pre-election verbiage
as to the rights of the common man Aus-
tralians will do well to remember the
rights of the uncommon man.
Don and Tommy.
A Minister Cameron admission that “the
Australian pound will buy much less than
it used to do” is mentioned as an ex-
ample of “naivete” in a “Primary Pro-
ducer” article by T. H. Bath, who was
Minister for Lands in Westralia when
Cameron was a Perth union-secretary,
and was “Tommy” to all the boys, who
called Cameron “Don.”
The truth, Bath wrote, is that in aiming
at a high standard of living the poli-
ticians have established a high cost of
living, and that “statistics which measure
progress in terms of nominal money
values without relating them to the actual
(Continued on page 8.)
DARING TO BE TWO DANIELS.
“But, Major Cameron, are you sure it won’t bite?”


'THAT' , =
The
An Executor’s Task
is an Expert’s Task
Executorship is not a task lightly to be imposed upon anyone. It is not always
a kindly act to appoint a friend to carry out the responsible and onerous work
associated with the administration of an estate. With the best intentions in
the world he can fail to perform the duties in the best interests of the
beneficiaries. He may not survive the completion of his task and your affairs
can pass into the hands of one in whom you would have less confidence.
The obvious thing is to appoint an expert executor who never dies.
Burns Philp Trust Company Ltd. is a permanent institution under experienced
and capable direction. If you would like to have details of the service which
it offers write for a booklet which gives you all the necessary information.
DIRECTORS —James Burns - Robert John Nosworthv - Lewis Armstrong - Joseph Mitchell
Manager—C. H. Chester
Burns Philp Trust
COMPANY LIMITED
3 BRIDGE 6 „T„ REST. SVDN E X f
PHONE: B 7901.
Box 543 B. G.P.0., Sydney.
BP 4-43
purchasing power of money are worse
than worthless.” Bath, a farmer for 40
years and a Wheat Pool trustee, has
worked it out that
the 52 million bushels of marketable wheat
harvested in 1911, at the siding price re-
ceived by growers, purchased as much
goods required by farmers as would need
117.000. bushels in 1941-42 at the price
which the Commonwealth so far has paid
for the wheat it has appropriated.
The wool production of 758,090,6761 b.
in 1911, at that year’s price of 9.58 d., pur-
chased as much goods as would require
the production of 1,008,531,5471 b. in 1942
at the appraisement average of 13.43 d.
In 1941-42 wheatgrowers should have
received £25,000,000 more for their
153.000. bushels of wheat and £18,250,000
more for their wool.
Don is welcome to continue the argu-
ment with his old leader.
POLITICAL POINTS
Enter the Dauntless Three: Horalius
Mei\nes, Herminius Spender and Spurius
Lartius Harrison. To the edification of
Lars Porsena, of Cottesloe, they broke
from the ranks of the Opposition execu-
tive to hold the bridge for full liability
and equality of risk, after the Opposition
executive had thrice decided “unani-
mously” that the bridge should not be
held. Perhaps some future Macaulay
will write a ballad about them.
Until the Militia Hopscotch Bill was
introduced. Stunt Press editors and Can-
berra correspondents were fond of jeer-
ing at the S.A. Opposition members as
boneheaded Tories. Now they are re-
duced to following their aversions, though
not to the extent of praising them —they
wouldn’t do that for the world.
A point made by Archie Cameron in
what the “Argus” allowed was “a first-
class fighting speech”:
What would happen to the militia if they
crossed the boundaries laid down in this
(Militia Hopscotch] bill? According to
international law, if militiamen were caught
in uniform outside the area laid down by
the Government, they would have no pro-
tection or rights.
Pithy; and it was matched by another
of those arid South Australians—H. S.
Newland, president of the Australian War
Service League: “No man in the militia
may cross the Line. How amused King
Neptune must be! ” And Dr. Price came
to light with a vivid illustration: “The
Prime Minister told the world that Aus-
tralia was fighting mad and then put half
the army in boxing gloves.”
Old hands at Canberra agree that Cur-
tin’s second speech on the Militia Hop-
scotch Bill was one of the best he has
made there. He denied responsibility for
the exclusion of Maoriland and Malaya
from the militia-service area, saying that
“the boundary lines were drawn by others
with greater responsibility for global
strategy.” He said nothing about the
reactions of those “others” to his Gov-
ernment’s dreadful map.
The British Government must find De
Gaulle very trying. Churchill’s opinion
of the gentleman is no mystery in Lon-
don or Washington ; and now the polite
Eden has found it necessary to “correct”
him. Grumbling at having been left out
of the consultations which preceded the
Allied landings in North Africa, De
Gaulle asserted that there were still
15,000 French political prisoners there.
Eden coldly replied that there were 1442
Frenchmen behind bars in French
Morocco and 3965 in Algeria ; “but this
total includes many criminals.”
The N.S.W. wheat harvest is in, with
a high average of yield and quality, de-
spite labor shortage and a fatheaded Gov-
ernment award as to wages and hours.
It was a tough time for the growers, but,
as always, they did the job, and reserved
their grumbling for afterwards.
Cosgrove has reconsidered his great
idea of sending a delegation all the way
to London to ask the war Parliament to
clip the claws of his little Leg. Council,
which is to be asked to have another look
at the Commonwealth Powers Bill.
Among the ten members who voted it
out were old Australian-Eleven men
Eady (1896) and Darling (1896, 1899,
1902 and 1905). Dr. Evatt, himself a
lifelong enthusiast for the game and a
pillar of the N.S.W.C.A., will meanwhile
try to persuade the veterans that what
they did isn’t cricket.
Nefarious persons have been spreading
rumors about Dedman in his electorate of
Corio, which is becoming unsafe for
Deddy and his isms. One is that he has
become the owner of “an elaborate car” ;
another, that he bought a number of
suits before he rationed clothing ; a third,
that he “purchased a house, worth be-
tween £6OOO and £7000,” after the build-
ing control regulations came in. Deddy
denies them all. In truth, he is as honest
a tyro as ever surrounded himself with
economists and calculators and set out,
in his own expression, “to take the ‘vest’
out of vested interests.”
On Monday of last week it was alleged
by the Prime Minister’s department, on
the alleged authority of the Australian
office in New York, that “no American
papers have carried editorial comments
on the Militia Bill since the introduction”
thereof. That very morning, in a Sun-
day message from its New York corre-
THREE OF A KIND—AND THEY CAN’T TAKE IT.
spondent, the “Argus” reported that
“Americans are watching with the keenest
interest the progress of the Australian
bill,” and quoted sarcastic extracts from
the Springfield (Illinois) “Journal” and
the Tucson (Arizona) “Star.” There must
have been some defect in the liaison work
or something.
“There are 23 points of similarity be-
tween the C.C.C. and a conception of
Nazism,” said a witness at the A.W.C.
inquiry. There are hundreds of points
of similarity between the A.W.C. inquiry
and every other time-wasting, expensive
and maddening inquiry ever held in Aus-
tralia by Government order.
After the usual waste of time and
money, the Dunn-Scully tick “investiga-
tion” has recommended what everybody
with sense expected it to recommend.
continuation of the anti-tick measures.
It is typical of N.S.W. Labor Ministers
to set up expensive inquiry boards to
make decisions which they haven’t the
fortitude to make, no matter how neces-
sary they be. About the only thing worth
noting that came out of the inquiry is
that ticks have to be run down, captured,
identified, branded and then forwarded
to an expert for further identification.
“A trade-union panel is to advise the
Government on industrial matters.” For
“advise” read “issue orders to.”
Moving for the disallowance of the
regulations for board control of the
meat industry (disallowed they were),
Senator McLeay said the Clark, M.H.R.,
appointed Deputy-Commissioner, was a
tailor with no A experience of the meat
industry. Surely McLeay didn’t expect
this Government to appoint a meat
expert. Tailor, tinker, tuckpointer—
anyone will do so long as the brand is
right.
Dr Evatt wasted no time in dealing
with “Cyril Walter Thornton,” whose
“Liverpool Press” had been circularising
the parents of lost soldiers for advance
subscriptions (305.) to a chimerical pub-
lication, Australia in Action. Inquiries
revealed that “Thornton” was known to
the police under several names. He is
being “detained with a view to prosecu-
tion,” and a National Security reg. has
been brought in to stop other ghouls,
with or without aliases.
Dunstan is puzzled to understand why
his Dietitians’ Bill, aimed at protecting
the public, was so mangled in the Leg.
Council that it had to be dropped. Pos-
sibly the public has no more confidence
in dietitians than it has in politicians.
From another New York “Nation”
article on the Yugoslav civil war;
Harold Callender, who has lately seemed
to echo the State Department view of
things, writes in the N.Y. “Times” that the
struggle foreshadows what will be “the
great diplomatic enigma that will hang
over the efforts of peacemakers after the
war —the question of long-term relations
between Moscow and the democratic
. Powers....lt seems to be a preface to the
great unresolved conflict of the future.”
The plain meaning of this is that someone
in Washington is thinking in stage whispers
about eventual war with Soviet Russia.
Such a war could scarcely come to pass
unless Soviet Russia, like Spain and
France in the past and Germany twice in
our time, tried to become too strong in
Europe. That has always been a “pre-
face” to disaster.
“We should soon be ready to push
north from Guadalcanal,” wrote Hanson
W. Baldwin in the N.Y. “Times” on
November 18. Though at least two
months out, not a bad guess; and as a
prescription far sounder than Baldwin’s
latest —the opening of an immediate
Second Front in Western Europe, with
the Axis still to be crushed in North
Africa.
Five of eight Sydney people charged
with conspiracy to obtain petrol unlaw-
fully were convicted, two others were re-
manded on bail to appear if called upon
and the other was acquitted. The ring-
leaders, a dentist and a taxi-driver, got
three years, a third man two years and
two others three months each. The
Crown alleged that 161,000 gallons were
obtained by presenting forged or bogus
consumers’ licenses at post offices. The
trial lasted 30 days. Both ringleaders
were of military age and one appeared
in R.A.A.F. uniform. His offer to return
after the war and serve his sentence if
allowed to report to his unit was tartly
refused by the Judge.
If the P.M.’s Australia Day broadcast
did nothing else it effected a reconcilia-
tion between Lazzarini, the Common-
wealth Minister for Home Security, and
Heffron, the N.S.W. Minister for N.E.S.
Said Heffron, after the P.M. issued his
Grave Warning:
Because of the great massing of enemy
ships and men it will be almost a miracle
if Australia escapes attack.
Said Lazzarini:
The Japs are massing in the north and
the threat to Australia was never more
real.
Whereupon Heffron ordered his wardens
to go forth and instruct householders to
have their blackout and air-raid shelters
ready. They hadn’t quite finished when
Lazzarini announced that headlamp
masks could be removed from all cars
south of Rockhampton, and Heffron had
the necessary order gazetted. Then he
announced that there were too many
wardens and that he proposed to reduce
their number to eight for every 500
people. To be unanimously inconsistent
is a distinct achievement.
“John Thomas Lang, alias ‘The Big
Fellow,’ alias ‘Greater than Lenin,’ stand
up!” thundered the president of the Dis-
putes Committee. “You are charged with
writing articles in a newspaper, the ‘Cen-
tury,’ calculated to disrupt the party.
You are charged with manufacturing a
dreadful contraption, to wit, ‘Lang’s Con-
scription Barometer,’ with the same ob-
ject. Your nefarious scheme is one of
the worst in the calendar of this party—
er, I mean, this country. The fact that
you are a youth rising 67 may be pleaded
in mitigation. Accused, are you willing
to throw yourself on the mercy of this
Disputes Committee and trust to the
party’s well-known yoomanitarianism?
Are you” but at this point the
prisoner shouted “Not on your life;
wouldn’t trust you blokes further than I
could throw you ; I’ll expel you, that’s
what I’ll do —expel you”—whereupon he
rushed away and wrote another “dis-
ruptive” article. Meantime the other
war went on.
Canada’s magnificent gift of
$1,000,000,000 of war materials to
Britain, now nearly all delivered, is to
be followed by another of the same
amount, and Australia and Maoriland
are to share in it. Three months ago
C. D. Howe, the Minister of Munitions
and Supply, said this;
Only about 30 p.c. of our production is
required to equip the Canadian armed
forces at home and abroad. About 50 p.c.
is being delivered to Britain, in Britain
itself or in combat areas abroad, includ-
ing Russia, and about 20 p.c. to the United
States, China, Australia and the Pacific
theatres of war.
Superb; and on the financial side
Chifley might profitably inquire how
Canada does these things.
Told that the Bundaberg Barnes
might have a shot at the Mackay by-
election, Queensland Premier Cooper
remarked that “the electors of Mackay
may have something to say about that.”
The electors of Bundaberg and Cairns
have already had something to say, and
they said “Barnes” most emphatically.
Since electors in general were punished
for these offences by being deprived of
the preferential vote, those in Mackay
may repeat the dreaded sound. Appar
rently there is nothing to prevent the
Barnes brothers coming out for all the
Queensland electorates if they feel like it.
There has been no confirmation of the
rumor that people who have left their
ordinary jobs to take on war work are
now receiving union tickets endorsed
with the words “This ticket entitles the
holder to partake of the new order for
which we are fighting.”


GF
G
Look After What You’ve Got!
Get your Exide dealer to give your battery “the once over” occasionally . . . and
when replacement is needed remember . . . Exide Still Keeps Going When the Rest
Have Stopped.
BATTERIES
EXB2-42
Let this be Your
Wartime Slogan.
PERSONAL ITEMS
By all account, Lieut.-Gen. B. L. Mont-
gomery, who headed Rommel west,
would get special praise from C. E. W-
Bean if last war’s official historian had
the job in Africa. One of Bean’s heroes
was Rosenthal, who made a habit
of risking his pelt and was consequently
wounded four times or more. Report
speaks of Montgomery as just such a
front-line general. “He prefers to squat
in a front-line dugout with his men, get-
ting to know them, sharing their ideas
and ideals and listening to their views.”
photos, also carry news of his being well
forward. It has also been noted that
jVlontgomery has a Churchillian taste in
odd headgear, and every one of the gen-
eral’s varied hats becomes covered with
badges of the regiments under him.
Visiting Britain for the Australian Red
Cross, Dr. John Newman Morris received
from the Royal College of Surgeons for
the Australian institution a first edition
of Willis’s Anatomy, published in 1664.
The eminent Melbourne sawbones isn’t
likely to find anything in the volume
that he didn’t know before, but it has
the special interest of having been illus-
trated by Wren, the rebuilder of London
after the Great Fire. Dr. Morris was
chairman of the Vic. B.M.A. for 17 years
and serves on a score of councils, includ-
ing National Health and Research and
the Vic. Society for Crippled Children.
He was born in Melbourne in 1879 and
was a graduate of Queen’s College.
“E.M.F.”; A listing of returned sol-
diers in the Federal House given on the
authority of the R.S.S.A.I.L.A. (B.
10/2/’43) is incorrect in one instance —
J. J. Dedman saw service on Gallipoli,
and the War Cabinet therefore contains
at least one returned soldier. Dedman,
who subsequently served in the Indian
Army, went to Gallipoli with a commis-
sion from the Edinburgh University Offi-
cers’ Training Corps.
At one time Dr. Clinton Coleridge
Farr (who has passed on at Christchurch,
M.L .) was doing research work in Samoa.
With an important dinner party in the
offing, Farr found that his “boy” hadn’t
brought back his laundry. He knew no-
thing of the “boy’s” language, and the
“boy” knew nothing of his. Farr decided
that flow of language might do the trick,
and so recited four pages of Milton s
“Paradise Lost,” scowling hideously the
while, as if he were hurling fearful invec-
tives. Before he was through, the “boy”
was on his knees, and the laundry arrived
within half an hour. Farr—Emeritus
Professor of Physics at Canterbury Uni.
College at the end was originally a
South Australian, a son of the Arch-
deacon Farr who was first head of St.
Peter’s College, Adelaide. In the early
days of electricity Dr. Farr supervised the
electric lighting of Redfern, Sydney. He
represented M.L. at the Pan-Pacific Con-
gress at Tokyo in 1926.
There’s an old saw to the effect that
“cracked pots last the longest.” When
Kelso King was 25 he was one of a
number of applicants for the manager-
ship of the then newly-formed Mercan-
tile Insurance. The selection committee
favored him, except on one point—his
delicate health. They took a risk and
appointed him. He was 90 before his
health finally gave out.
Like other recent Digger V.Cs., that
Won by Pte. Bruce Steel Kingsbury, of
Melbourne, was posthumously awarded.
It was the second V.C. won in New
Guinea. Recent winners of the decora-
tion bordered on 40 years old ; Kings-
bury was 24. His father —P. B. Kings-
bury, of West Preston —stated that both
Bruce and Bruce’s brother Clive (also
in the army) were “two of the most peace-
ful-looking kids you could find. If there
Was anything that lifted them above
others it was their constant care for their
mother, who was an invalid for some
time.” He further described the V.C.-
Winner as “the last fellow in the world
You would believe capable of such a high
order of bravery.” Seven of Bruce's
Uncles served in the last war, three of
them being killed. The Kingsbury V.C.
was won by a lone-hand Bren-gun charge
which saved battalion headquarters.
This must approach a record. Young
Noel Graham, of Ulmarra (N.S.W.), has
won the eighth school bursary of the
Graham family. First winner was Lieut.
Douglas Graham, now p.o.w. Singapore.
Other members of the family, bursary
winners and also in the A.1.F., are Major
Stuart Graham, Captain H. T. Graham,
Corporal Neville Graham and Signaller
I. Graham.
Having a well-earned spell in Sydney,
Captain H. T. Kienzle, whose thorough
knowledge of New Guinea, gained in 16
years of mining and growing rubber
there, came in extra handy when the
Japs had to be beaten back. Capt.
Kienzle knew the Owen Stanley Range
well enough to be able to mark out the
best line of attack. Also, he organised
many of the native carriers who ren-
dered the Diggers sterling service.
Reported missing and believed killed
in air combat over Australian waters,
Lieutenant John Henty McWhae, R.N.,
a descendant of the Henty family, the
oldest family in Victoria; they settled
at Portland before Batman did in Mel-
bourne. On his father’s side he was de-
scended from former Vic. Cabinet Minis-
ter John McWhae. In 1935 young
McWhae left Geelong Grammar for
Cambridge, got a commission in the
King’s Own Scottish, then transferred to
the flying arm of the R.N. He was one
of the aerial huntsmen who hounded
down the Bismarck. Visiting Australia,
he was loaned to the Australian Navy.
Dr. Montgomery White becomes
Queensland’s third Agricultural Chemist.
J. C. Brunnich held the fort from 1901 to
1930, when he was succeeded by E. H.
Gurney, brother of the late chief N.S.W.
entomologist. Dr. White received his
secondary education at the Townsville
Grammar School, where his name as a
gymnast is still legend. Scholarships took
him through a bachelor’s course in
geology and a master’s in chemistry.
J.W. SHAND, K.C.
Assisting Commissioner Harry Brown on
the Allied Works Council inquiry, which
began in Sydney on December 29 and is
still going strong. J. W. Shand’s father,
J. B. Shand, over a long stretch of years
stood out as a giant of the N.S.W. Bar,
and J. W. Shand is no small potatoes,
either.
Queensland University gave him a staff
appointment and twice awarded him re-
search scholarships. An Orient Free
Passage and Exhibition paved the
way for a London doctorate in bio-
chemistry. After American experience,
the Queensland Meat Industry Board
claimed him for chilled beef work. At
36 the State department gained a new
recruit and a fund of good yarns.
A recent batch of five made honorary
members of the Chemical Industry
Society in England—there are only six-
teen honorary members of the society in
the world —included Dr. H. G. Denham,
Rector of Canterbury Uni. College,
Maoriland. Dr. Denham was born in
Christchurch in 1880, educated at Syden-
ham and in the Flat City, polished off
at Liverpool Uni. and Heidelberg Uni.,
where he gained his Ph.D. In 1912 he
became Acting-Prof, of Chemistry at
Queensland Uni., and in 1921 Prof, of
Inorganic Chemistry at Capetown Uni.
In 1923 he returned to the institution
with which he had been identified as
student and master since the early ’nine-
ties.
John Howard Payne, who concocted
“Home, Sweet Home,” was American
Consul at Tunis for two terms. He was
buried there, and the U.S. Government
put up a monumental slab inscribed:
“This stone is placed here by a grateful
country.” Later Payne’s body was rein-
terred in New York at the expense of an
American philanthropist who’d been
touched by “Home, Sweet Home,” as
anybody might have been who’d ever
heard it sung by Nellie Melba or anyone
in her class.
Present secretary of Royal South Syd-
ney Hospital Cyril Dransfield parted com-
pany with the N.S.W. Railways to take
the job. For many years he had held hon.
positions for the hospital, and since the
war started had been organising for the
N.E.S. Minister. As an alderman and
Mayor of Mascot Council, he has ex-
tended the glad hand to many world-fliers
landing at that municipality’s airport.
He’s also widely known as vice-president
of the Railways and Tramways Officers’
Assoc.
In the past 50 years a lot of people
have passed in and out of the Hobart
branch of E., S. and A. and a lot of
changes have taken place. Walter John-
son saw all the changes ; past 81, he may
claim to be the oldest caretaker in Aus-
tralia. He can even remember what
sovereigns looked like. Early rising and
long walks make his recipe for longevity,
coupled with caretaking in a bank.
Norman Taylor, recent 0.8. E. in Adel-
aide, is a trustee of S.A. Savings Bank
and chairman of directors of the family
Taylor firm. In 1916 he was a Red Cross
Commissioner in France, and since then
has been president of the Employment
Promotion Council, the National Roads
Assoc., the C.T.A. and the Associated
Chambers of Commerce—besides much
useful work for local charities.
Named as representative of civilian
interests on the Commonwealth Medical
Co-ordination Committee, Justice Colin
George Watt Davidson, of the N.S.W.
Supreme Court. A Mudgee (N.S.W.)
native, b. 1878, he has been on the
Supreme Court Bench since 1926, with
changes of work as chairman of royal
commissions on coal, one of these going
into the safety and health of miners.
He’s a Fellow of the Sydney Uni. Senate.
The R.A.A.F. has another one-legged
member Sergeant Roberts Christian
Dunstan, of Mount Eliza (Vic.). He
wangled his way into the A.I.F. at 17,
had 18 months with the Engineers in
the Middle East, lost a leg at Tobruk,
was discharged and went back to school.
Equipped with an artificial leg, he started
hammering at the door of the R.A.A.F.,
eventually was accepted for the air crew,
and is now on the job in Britain as an
air gunner. His father was gassed in
France, and was aboard the troopship
Ballarat when she was torpedoed in the
last war.
Twenty years ago a traffic clerk in
Adelaide Municipal Tramways Trust,
Aid. Tom Hadfield Grundy is having an-
other term as City Council rep. on the
board of management of that undertaking.
He has a second-to-none knowledge of
tramway working and transport problems.
No outsize himself, Leslie C. Hunkin
shoulders not one but a batch of outsize
jobs in S.A. He’s Deputy-Director of
Man-power, Public Service Commis-
sioner (since 1929) and Forestry Board
chairman (for the last 10 years). Born
in Tasmania 58 years ago, he moved to
Adelaide at 22 in search of better health.
For some years he was sec. of the Trades
and Labor Council, then got into Parlia-
ment, meanwhile never letting up on a
rigid programme of night study, a result
of which is that he’s now a recognised
authority on industrial law, public ad-
ministration and finance. He was an
original member of the Board of Indus-
try and acted on the State Advisory Com-
mittee on Finance during the depression.
South Aus. Man-power.
Before work collared all his time he was
keen on wetting a line and doing a bit
of shooting.
To fill the place of secretary Jack
Shute, who recently became Deputy
Controller of Meat in N.S.W., the Pri-
mary Producers’ Union selected Medley
C. Clark. A graduate of Sydney
Uni., Clark runs the Camheath Jersey
stud, Brushgrove, N.S.W. North Coast. In
his early thirties, he’s a vigorous worker
in the interests of dairy-farmers, and has
been P.P.U. for many years.
Into the silence:
At 86, in London, Sir William Arbuthnut
Lane, doyen of English surgeons. He it was
who said “There is no earthly reason why
every human being should not reach the cen-
tury. Treat your body as you treat your motor-
car and you will feel as young as I do.”
In Melbourne, Gunnar Gundersen, B.Sc.,
until 1942 senior lecturer in mathematics at
Melbourne University. For many years he
took a busman’s holiday from the higher
mathematics by editing the “Australasian’s’
chess section. He held the Victorian chess
championship title 12 times. His widow is a
sister of flautist Amadio.
At Bendigo, at 78, A. T. Woodward, doyen
of Victorian art teachers. Born in England, he
was principal of the Smallheath branch of the
Birmingham Municipal School of Art till he
came to Australia in 1889. For 50 years
thereafter he painted and taught, though the
public saw little of his paintings. One of his
pupils, Agnes Goodsir, became an associate
of the Paris Salon. His distinguished white
beard was sometimes seen at Melbourne art
shows.
In Melbourne, at 62, x C01. Viscount Jorge de
Castilho, who knew Portuguese Timor in-
timately before the Jap arrival. A colonel
of aviation, he fought in several of Portugal s
little colonial wars and was Governor of its
Indies for 30 years. He fought with the French
in the last war. Five years ago he mapped,
the island where A.I.F. men have been fight-
ing and where his widow and son are now
either prisoners or in hiding. He was the
observer on the first ’plane to fly from Lisbon
to Rio (1923).
In London, Bertie C. Edwards, son of the
late Frederick Lewis Edwards, one of the
founders of Edwards Dunlop, and himself a
director of the co., as well as being chairman
of directors of its buying organisation in
London. One of his sons was killed on active
service last year, and the other two are also on
active service.
In China, at 71, August Trudinger, one of
many missionaries to have gone from S.A. —
six of them from his own family—to the China
Inland Mission. He struck to his job for
nearly half a century, and ended as superin-
tendent in the Shansi Province.
At Baralaba (Q.), at 69, Henry Dawson,
well-known grazing figure of the Dawson Valley
(C.Q.). Leichhardt named the Dawson River
after his paternal grandfather. Henry Dawson
was jackeroo, drover and station manager be-
fore he got on to property of his own.


Society
"AND IT'S PRINTED
WITH WIMBLE'S INKS"
“Pitt St.”: Pity the flapper that lives
or works within. 10 miles of the Sydney
G.P.O. From hour to hour she never
knows when she is going to be bailed
up by a reporter and a cameraman and
asked to state her opinion on anything
from raceless Saturdays to the effect of
the astrological aspect on her undie
coupons. The fluffier and more vacuous
she looks the more likely is she to be
blockaded and shot at with a high-speed
lens. But sometimes the hunters catch
a tartar. When the dragnet was hauled
in for comments on the Errol Flynn ver-
dict, the catch included a 27-year-old
A.W.A.S. T don’t give a hang what
happens to Mr. Flynn,” she said.
* * * *
“Blue Star”: The Westralian lottery
seems to be a couple of jumps ahead of
the other State gambles in the matter of
soliciting business. With an eye on the
increased price of envelopes, paper and
postage, it is now advising clients to
“Lodge a sum of money with the Lot-
teries Commission and have a ticket in
each consultation posted to you. You
will be advised when it is time to send
a further remittance.” Too right, you will
be. Exhortations to put spare cash into
war bonds or war-savings stamps appar-
ently must take their chance in the hurly-
burly of official competition.
* * *
. “Strict Veg.”: In Melbourne there has
been such a sharp rise in accidents attri-
butable to overindulgence in “plonk”
that Premier Dunstan has become con-
“Better get up, dear. You were reprimanded for being late yesterday
at the foundry !”
cerned about it. He is in an awkward
position. There is no prescribed for-
mula which covers “plonk”—also known
as “paint,” “pinkie” and “lunatic’s soup.”
It is Australian wine which hasn’t been
allowed to mature, and, contrary to popu-
lar opinion, analysis doesn’t reveal any
deleterious substance to account for the
extraordinary effects it has on some
people. As Dunstan says, if the wine
complies with the Act it is difficult for
the authorities to prevent its use. And
even if they did a substitute would prob-
ably hq found in metho.
* * * *
“Spider”: According to J. T. Lang,
the greyhound is a lovable dog. Few
people will support him, most agree-
ing with Henry Lawson’s description of
the breed as “thin, thieving and spider-
ish.” All the same, the tykes must have
their subtle charm. When a Kempsey
man advertised for a trainer for his grey-
hound 54 Sydney trainers rushed it, four
being so anxious to handle the brute that
they wired their applications. Of course
it is just possible that the 54 were in-
spired by other sentiments than sheer
love of herring-gutted canines.
*
“E.S.”; A friend who saw something
of a near-riot outside a Bondi hotel on
a recent Saturday, the trouble being over
the absence of beer, commented thus;
“Late that night I’m at a party and the
beer runs out. Three men say they’ll
get some, and they’re back in 15 minutes
with six bottles. I ask what it cost and
they say two quid. Now, if you kept a
pub and could get 6s. Bd. a bottle for
beer after hours, would you be likely to
sell it for Is. 7d. across the bar before
six o’clock?”
* * * *
“Dumb Guy”: Now that Foo and his
doings are fading out of the public mind
there comes another interesting enigma
under the name of Bazooka. Bazooka
made its bow at a press conference pre-
sided over by Major-General A. Camp-
bell, Chief of Ordnance of the U.S.
Army. The general showed it to the
newspapermen, very hush - hush. All
that the world was permitted to know
of Bazooka was that it is a weapon, being
produced in large quantities, which will
“make the American soldier the most
dangerous fighter in the world,” and will
“make the most hair-raising exploits of
previous wars look tame.” Splendid
advance publicity ; but why mention the
matter at all if the story must stop there?
* * * *
“Bo”; “Yair,” said the Bloke in the
Bar, “y’re damn’ lucky y’re not married.
If y’ had a mother-in-law like I got y’d
be better orf be draggin’ a Bengal acrorss
y’r windpipe. If a cove has a sherbet
she can sniff it on him before he turns
the corner of the street, an’ she’s always
pokin’ her bib in about bringin’ up the
kids. Yair, she lives with us.” “Why
don’t you boot her out, then?” someone
suggested. “Aw, I got a better way. Y’
know ‘Blue’ Stoneham? He works in the
Department of Ways and No Means.
Well, his boss has a cobber in the Records
and Disentitlements and he’s goin’ to work
it through him. If the woman-power
mob don’t have the old girl as a cook in
a road camp at Oodnadatta or slappin’
labels on pickle-bottles within a few
weeks it won’t be my fault!”
“Pawang”: “K.” (B. 20/1/’43) has
come up against one of the most difficult
and interesting problems in psychology,
The word “beer” makes him want to
laugh or snigger ; the word “sinister”
gives him a forbidding feeling ; so he
comes -to the conclusion that his feeling is
grounded in the word and suggests that
if the word for “beer” was amberine or
malto or hopjuice nobody would find it
funny. On the contrary it would produce
exactly the same feelings. A word is only
a symbol for associations. It is not
the word itself that makes us snigger,
“What time does the next ferry leave ?”
“ Dammitall, madam, I can't disclose shipping movements."
laugh or shudder, but the memories the
word conjures up. The French word
cheval conjures up for a Frenchman a
similar image to what “horse” conjures
up for an Australian. I daresay “K.” finds
“beer” funny because he has been
brought up in a community which teaches
its offspring that strong drink is nice but
naughty. Hence the word carries the
associations of the naughty feeling most
people feel when they flout Authority by
drinking after hours — i.e., when daddy
isn’t looking.
* * * *
“C.Q.”: A queer case of pride keep-
ing a wound open has occurred in house-
starved Footscray (Melb.). Over 25 years
ago a young man, so the yarn goes, fell
in love with a girl, was accepted, built
and furnished a home, arranged the wed-
ding and then was jilted. He locked the
door of his new house, and went back to
live with his mother just across the
road, an arrangement that still endures.
The Footscray Council was recently con-
fronted with the fact that there is in its
bailiewick a locked and vacant house.
Rates are paid and the owner rejects all
offers to buy the property.
* * * *
“Prosetaster”: I always read the com-
muniques from London of Frederick
Ehrenfried Baume with bated breath,
expecting each moment one of those
lightning flashes of intuition which will
revolutionise my outlook on current
events. My breath-bating has just been
rewarded by the following massive chunk
of deduction:
And as Count Ciano goes to the Vatican,
perhaps to organise the unconditional sur-
render of Italy, the Mareth Line in Tunisia
holds no terrors for the British Eighth Army.
* * * *
“Gat Toter”: No fiction writer in
America should ever be short of lurid
themes. Lately the wife of a Cincinnati
man shot him. He was taken to hos-
pital. His mistress, who was living in the
same house with them, learning that he
might recover, went to the hospital and
finished him off. Both confessed to
murder, and what they told the jury won
them an acquittal on the ground of jus-
tification. The fellow was apparently a
thoroughly bad hat, and for this sort of
corpse American juries display no sym-
pathy.
r * * * *
“Chevroford”: For the first time in
Victorian history a Court has granted
damages to the victim of a hit-and-run
motorist, although the identity of the
ruffian could not be established. Com-
plainant was a munition worker who was
knocked off his pushbike and badly in-
jured by a motor-truck which passed on.
Nominal defendants were the Under-
writers’ Association, and under the new
Act the risk (£lOOO in this instance) is
pooled by the insurance cos.
“Zake”; Time was when street-tree-
planting in Sydney was confined to the
“garden” suburbs. No alderman in any
industrial suburb would have been mad
enough to suggest such a scheme, for the
kids in those parts considered it a breach
of their code to leave a newly-planted
tree unuprooted. But vandalism, what-
ever the reason, seems to be on the de-
dine, and civic fathers in two inner west-
ern suburbs were encouraged to embark
on ambitious tree-planting schemes a few
years ago. Instead of following tradi-
tion and growing unsuitable European
trees they concentrated on the Westralian
scarlet-flowered gum. Their faith that
the trees would withstand vandalism was
justified—the few trees that failed did
so through natural causes and the sur-
vivors are making a glorious show just
now.
* * * *
“Garrick’s Ghost” continues Sydney’s
theatrical history:—•
The story of Sydney’s Theatre Royals, as set
out on this page some time ago, reminded me
of earlier “theatres” on the shores of Port
Jackson where primitive performances were
given. The first on record was on June 4,
1789, when some convicts were permitted to
present Farquhar’s comedy “The Recruiting
Officer” in a hut fitted up for the purpose.
On Jan. 16, 1796, a “playhouse” was opened
by “a decent class of prisoners” with “The
Revenge.” “At the licensing of this exhibition,"
says David Collins, “they were informed that
the slightest impropriety would be noticed, and
a repetition punished by the banishment of
their company to the other settlements.” It is
said that Macquarie was at a show held
in a loft on Brickfield Hill, and during his
successor Brisbane’s team some convicts at the
Emu Plains agricultural camp played a couple
of dramas very appropriately chosen, so far
as names are concerned —“Rob Roy, the Bold
Outlaw” and “Honest Thieves.” In 1826 some
of the inmates of the debtor’s room in Sydney
Gaol produced “Bombastes Furioso,” when,
says the “Sydney Gazette,” “persons of re-
spectability visited the gaol and witnessed the
riiue performance through the iron gratings ot
the windows.”
... ...
THE ARTFUL DODGER.
“ ‘Call Me Artie’ Fadden always begins his criti-
cisms of the Government like a lion and ends them
like a lamb. Expediency is his all-in-all” (B.
10/2/’43).
A plain, blunt man, sincere, forthright and
hearty.
He'd have you ffjink him, needless to relate,
He who’s become the leader of a party
By some inscrutable decree of Fate,
The chap who likes to be addressed as “Artie” —
A brevity quite as appropriate.
I’ll hazard just a hint and go no farther,
Whether applied to “Artful” or to “Arthur.”
Brave, ringing words he’ll spout, but ere he’s
through them
He’ll fork some “ifs” and “buts” from out
his sleeves.
You feel, whate’er his aims, he won’t pursue
them
Beyond the point where danger he perceives.
Bold, boastful words, but suiting actions to them
Is not a course in which he much believes.
It might upset his cart, and that would sadden
The patriotic soul of Mr. Fadden.
At talk he ranks among the record-breakers,
Hardly a day but into print he skips.
Few can compete with him as promise-makers
But when with hard realities to grips
He comes, his hardihood (like that of Acres)
One features oozing from his fingertips.
Whatever policy he’s been attacking,
The one that gets the votes will have his
backing.
A dog whose speciality is barking
To bite is almost always disinclined.
So when to Fadden’s outbursts next you're
harking
’Twere well to keep that timeworn saw in
mind.
Shrill though his yap, his teeth will do no
marking
On his antagonists—he’s not that kind.
What looks the safest path for self and party
Will ever have the most appeal for Artie.
N.S.W.
T. THE R.
CARTOONS.
The pen is mightier than the sword
In many ways, it’s reckoned;
But, stinging satire to convey,
The artist’s pencil leads the way.
The pen’s a poor old second.
And many a virtuous public man,
I apprenend, would sooner
Be roasted by a writer than
Be flayed by a cartooner.
Words are but words, and all the laches
Directly thus imputed
By other words can be belied
And categoric’lly denied
And (possibly) confuted.
Stout arms may turn an outright thrust
And scotch a charge that’s printed;
But how rebut the one that’s just
Pictorially hinted?
The pen will doubtless always be
The handiest utensil
For implementing press attacks.
But how assuredly it lacks
The ginger of the pencil.
Or whatsoever artists use
In whimsical creations
For puncturing obnoxious views
And bubble reputations.
Oft, when I’ve taken pen in hand
And pondered for a moment
About the need to keep my screed
Within the boundaries decreed
For fair and lawful comment,
I’ve wished, although right well 1 knew
All that I meant to say was true,
I hadn’t got to say it,
But could, as these cartooned ■
Much more effectually, too
With subtle art convey
N.S.W.
IFORD.


“B. Hackshaw”: Obit. Melbourne’s
Yarra Bank. The stretch of wind-swept,
sun-baked soil where earnest fanatics
argued with the crowd on the Marxist
dialectic, v.d. prevention, birth control,
the Second Coming, Douglas Credit, free
beer for all and other burning questions
has had the grader put over it by Allied
soldiers who, unable to get any other
suitable ground for their softball matches,
have been permitted to use it. The
grader was necessary to level the little
eminences which are said to have been
aboriginal gravemounds, and which had
served as natural soapboxes for genera-
tions of Demostheneses.
* * * *
“Pip’s R.”: Charged with desertion a
soldier told a court-martial that his
missus had become a bus conductor and
neglected the three children. He had
gone A.W.L. to make arrangements for
their care. The soldier was ordered to
return to his unit and await the Court’s
decision. His defending officer said that
the army should have power to make a
soldier’s wife do her job in the home. It
might be better to give the army or
somebody power to stop Transport Czars
hiring women indiscriminately without
considering the effect on their homes.
* * * *
“Tuart”: That appalling word “social-
ite” is, as I suspected, American, as also
is “Whacko!” the favorite expression of
the cockerel who reads the “Wimmen’s
Weekly.” A New York paper, reporting
the Woolcott Forbes case, put its stuff
under the headline “Accused of Swind-
ling Socialites.” One of the “socialites”
is Mrs. Guy P. Trulock, “co-chairman
of Mayor La Guardia’s Tin Can Salvage
Committee and president of the New
York State Federation of Women’s
Clubs,” and there are two others —Mrs.
Mary Jane Frey, of 400 Park-avenue,
“widow of a vice-president of Standard
Oil of New Jersey,” and Miss Helen W.
Smith, of Linden, Connecticut, “former
wife of ex-U.S. Attorney-General Cum-
mings”—so the Big Fish that Got Away
must have found his way into the Very
Best Circles. The report says he “worked
his way to Mexico from Australia via
Bombay, India,” and, with Alfred E.
Dawson, of Toronto (also of “Canadian
Management, Inc., Management and
Finance Co., Ltd., and Chappie-Mam-
moth Gold Mines, Ltd.”), he is held on
two indictments containing 26 counts
and alleging that “investors lost more
than $250,000.” All exclusive of the Big
Fish’s operations in this which
are summarised in the words “alleged
fugitive from Australia in $10,000,000
stock fraud.”
* * * *
“Tut Ut”; I also was in the Bois
Grenier sector in 1916 and can assure
“Caballer” (B. 20/1/’43) that that strip
of country had its fair share of spies. We
never once put over a raid there that
surprised Fritz, getting instead, on each
occasion, a kick in the pants that made
us limp home. Admittedly we were to
blame at times for advertising our inten-
tions, as, for instance, marching the raid-
ing party up to the line in daylight in
battle kit. But that didn’t much matter
with Fritz’s silent partners always on the
job. One of my Diggers became sus-
picious of a certain refugee, and traced
his hideout to an abandoned house with
a dovecote at the back. Our commander
thought it was all hooey, and refused to
let a few of us go back and grab the gent.
When we came out five days later our
refugee friend had flown and his pigeons
with him.
* * * *
“Nakh”; Spud ironies, is it (B.
3/2/’43)? A month or so ago a friend
of mine in Victoria with several acres
under potatoes had to patrol his field
at night to prevent the local murphy-
starved population from “bandicooting”
the crop. Now he can’t sell it, give it
away or even get anybody to lift it.
* * H= *
“C. Ma”: I feel sorry for Lud Mayor
Nettlefold in his well-meant campaign
to enlist the aid of citizens to keep the
city tidy while the council is short of
man-power. It was suggested and ac-
cepted that the chief offenders were the
tramcar-users, who buy approximately
20,000,000 tickets a month and, so it
would seem, drop ’em all in the city’s
gutters. Vigorous propaganda had actu-
ally succeeded in getting a large propor-
tion of the population to put their used
tickets in their pockets and take them
home. Unfortunately, just as the cam-
paign was beginning to show results Mel-
bourne was smitten with the worst heat-
wave for a generation, the plane-trees
began to wither, a wind arose, the leaves
began to drop and the cleaners woke up
one morning to find that Nature could
produce more litter in five minutes than
the citizens could in a year.
* * * *
“C.A.M.”: Being the only one of the
trio now living perhaps it’s safe to dis-
close this secret of a wealthy man’s sue-
cess. In the firm where I was office-boy
40 years ago the manager used to get
regular visits from Jimmy Tyson, reputed
even then to be at least a millionaire.
One day Jimmy, wanting to sign a docu-
ment, asked for a pen (fountain pens
were not much in vogue in those days).
The manager proffered a couple for
choice —a fine and a coarse nib. The
latter was promptly rejected. “Use too
much ink, that sort” was the old man’s
comment. And ink was only a penny a
bottle then.
* * * *
“Harold Hardupp”: When a voice on
the tram mentioned that a man had been
“tipsy” I knew without looking at the
lady that she was elderly. It was the
first hearing of the word for ages and a
reminder that the terms for inebriety are
ever changing. Men in my youth had
“tiddleys” or “bracers,” “wet their
whistles” or “tippled,” and got “tipsy,”
“half-seas over,” “three sheets in the
wind,” “primed,” “corned,” “screwed,”
“squiffy,” “mellow,” “raddled” or just
plain “tight.” Now they have “a spot,”
“a wet” or “a gargle,” and get “shot,”
“blind,” “molo,” “lubricated” (variation
of the old “oiled”), “blotto,” “foamed
up” or “woozled.” The modern terms
are not more expressive, but the world
apparently gets tired of overworked
slang. To me, tipsy was more expres-
sive of a stage of drink elevation than
anything that has displaced it.
* * * *
“Bumpkin”: Touching the history of
sport in Australia (B. 3/2/’43). I re-
member once reading in an old quasi-
“We’ve got to be careful what we eat , Slim. You know swine fever's
very bad.”
biographical English novel of a sport very
popular amongst the waterside popula-
tion. It consisted of setting small boys
against rats in a pit. What made the
sport somewhat tough from the modern
standpoint was that the boys had their
arms pinioned behind them and had to
fight the rats with their teeth, while the
watersiders stood around betting on the
outcome. It was recorded in the novel
that this sport never lacked recruits, and,
in fact, the cash the hero earned at it
was what set him on the high road to
fortune. Although the game had its origin
in England the venue given in the book
was Melbourne! Can “J.H.M.A.” con-
firm this from his comprehensive know-
ledge of early Australiana?
* * * *
“S.V/’: Novel contribution to war-
effort literature printed in the “Sun-
Pictorial” of Melbourne;
I suggest that breweries could prevent
waste of good beer by reducing the froth-
producing element which causes overflow
In an average hotel bar the waste would
be about three gallons a day. Estimating
200 hotels of this size in Victoria, the waste
would be about 600 gallons a day, or 3600
gallons a week. Even if half of this, 1800
gallons, were saved, it would mean another
25,000 pots or 10,800 bottles.
But would beer be beer if it were froth-
less?
* * * * -r
“K.”: Because he feared that, if shot
down over Germany, the Nasties might
be even nastier than usual to him for
owning a German-Jewish name, a pilot
has been permitted by a U.S. Court to
change it to an Anglo-Saxon one. But
the Gestapo will not be deceived. The
pilot’s names, old and new, have oeen
splashed all over the world by news cable.
“Bogan Lizard”: That Red Page effu-
sion (B. 3/ 2 / ’43) anent the happy ending
in musicomedy and the fillums was a
reminder to me of a real-life happy end-
ing connected with the stage. Called in
at a western N.S.W. homestead a few
years ago and was welcomed by a hand-
some hostess. Her husband was a big,
browned bushman, and she had big,
browned sons and sturdy, browned
daughters, and the lunch we sat down to,
prepared by herself from kitchen to
plate, still rests gloriously on the memory
of my palate. That place simply reeked
with happiness and content; you could
see it on the faces of the stock and in the
flowers of the garden. The lady had
been one of a “Floradora” sextet.
* * * *
“Zake”: Two Sydney tram conduc-
tresses told a “success” story to the Sun.
They went out to Randwick, and their
luck began when a minion mistook them
for service girls—they wore their trammy
uniforms—and passed them through free
of charge. Then in the first three races
they toted the first three placed horses
and won as much as £2 9s. 3d. each. It
was also worth a double column with
splash headlines, pictures and letterpress,
in all about twice as much space as was
given to the North African political
situation on the next page. But I sup-
pose the girls are wondering if they’ll
hear from the Taxation Commissioner
about the tax they dodged at the gates.
* * * *
“F.S.”: Passing a State school during
the holidays I saw a gang of boys round
about 12 and 14 as busy as bees knock-
ing out the walls of the main schoolroom
and putting in larger windows in order
to improve the lighting. They were mak-
ing a good job of it. Evidently the
man-power shortage has moved the Vic.
Education Department to utilise its
pupils in such a sensible manner. In
normal times there would have been
violent protests, on the one hand from
the unions and on the other from parents
(though the lads were obviously having
the time of their lives and enjoying their
voluntary labor). A few hundred yards
further on I passed the park, where
other children and their parents were
spending the holidays in the traditional
manner. The parents looked gloomy and
harassed and the children bored to dis-
traction. Any post-war plan of social
reconstruction which established vaca-
tions as periods in which children could
build their schools themselves would
have my hearty endorsement.
* * * *
“Strict Veg.”: It is interesting to learn
(B. 27/1 / ’43) that the process of dis-
covering good in Brigham Young has
commenced in America. While he was
building the foundations of his new State
Young was the target for writers of all
ranks, from yellow-press mudslingers to
authors of the eminence of Mark Twain.
The polygamous side of the Mormon
teaching was what came in for most
attention,' naturally enough, since it dif-
ferentiated the. religion from all other
sects in America. I got my notions of
Brigham Young as a boy from a short
story in which Max Adder made the
Mormon leader fall in love with the en-
tire complement of a ladies’ college, who
unanimously decided to elope with their
adorer. I forget the details of their mari-
tal history, but I remember a pouching
illustration of the comprehensive hus-
band contemplating the graves of
numerous deceased spouses with tears
in his eyes and a crepe-shrouded top-
hat in his hand, so they must have had
a happy life together. It was only when
Salt Lake City became a great business
and commercial centre that the polyga-
mous plank of the Mormon platform
was dropped. Nowadays, if a Mormon
wants a change of wives he has to go to
Reno.
* * * *
“Taniwha”: Using shells to cure -shell-
shock sounds like a very far-fetched
application of the hair of the dog, but it
has produced excellent results in a mih-
tary hospital in Maoriland. The cura-
tive shells, it should be added, come from
the sea, not from munition factories.
The patients, it has been found, enjoy
collecting and classifying the sea-shells
which Maoriland’s northern beaches offer
in such wide and beautiful varieties. And
they get peace through listening to the
shells. Men who have sustained arm in-
juries like to have a shell to grip and
squeeze, thus exercising and re-educat-
ing their fingers. Why shells should have
a sedative mental effect no one knows,
but Major Merrill Moore, of the U.S.
Army, a topnotch psychiatrist, swears by
the treatment. He says the peacefulness
and beauty of the countryside where the
hospital is situated are also very helpful.
* * * *
“Oxmead”; I rather like, if only be-
cause of their cheerful irrelevance, these
slabs of polished English that advertisers
nowadays so often tack on to announce-
ments of their wares. But I admit to
being a little startled at seeing Alfred the
Great (848-901) described in a recent
burst of laudation as “an eminent
Britisher.” And what of this in Australia’s
oldest daily under a column headed
“Truth in Advertising”:
Samuel Johnson must have been in that
wanting-to-shock-the-public frame of mind
....when he wrote in the “Morning
Chronicle” of 16th August, 1816; “Of all
noises I think music the least disagreeable.
I have a dim recollection of the Doctor
being credited with that sentiment at
some time or other, but not in any news-
paper of 1816. Johnson died in 1784.
* * * *
“Cine Ma”: I see that H. G. Wells
and some of his literary confreres have
been writing to the London papers pro-
testing against Hollywood’s proposal to
make a film out of Tolstoy’s War and
Peace. They say the filmateers would
ruin it. They are right if the past is any
criterion of the future, but who knows,
some producing genius might decide to
give the immense story complete in serial
form, instead of tabloid representation.
Hitherto most serial films have been
tripy thrillers, but the French made some
more serious experiments in the days of
the silents. I was in Paris when a theatre
was screening the life of the fourth Henry,
one of France’s most colorful monarchs.
The film ran night after night and was so
absorbing that thousands attended every
session. I had to return to Australia
before it finished. There are scores of
great novels which would repay this sort
of treatment, but Hollywood persists in
trying to condense a vast epic like Anna
Karenina so that it will run for not more
than 100 minutes.
* * * *
“Roche”; Parental control is as strict
as ever in some households. A stern
father in Bacchus Marsh, 30 miles out of
Melbourne, sent his boy out to buy two
loaves of bread and told him he’d better
not return home without them. The young-
ster, who was mounted on a bicycle, evi-
dently had a lot of trouble. Late at night
he was questioned by a couple of police-
men in Spencer-street, Melbourne (prob-
ably because he was riding without a
light), and his story was unfolded. Oh,
yes, he’d got the bread, and was pleased
to find it Id. a loaf cheaper than in his
home village,
* * * *
“T.M.C.”: Quoth a Sydney afternoon
paper, recalling Churchill’s plan to strike
at Germany through the Dardanelles in
the last war: — •
In 1914 Churchill, then First Lord of the
Admiralty, first conceived the plan... .Ger-
many was occupied on two fronts, in Italy
and Russia. She was gripped in the West.
Italy didn’t declare war on Austria until
May 22, 1915, nearly six months after the
abortive fleet attack on the Narrows and
nearly a month after the Australians
landed on Gallipoli. Churchill’s plan
brought Italy in on our side, and that is
the item on the credit side of the ledger
that ought to be stressed in any apology
for an unfortunate campaign.
* * * *
“Feng Shui”: In days long before the
Japanese occupation I used to watch the
Chinese rickshaw coolies in Singapore
pulling about the white Caucasians, and
I couldn’t help but wonder how much of
our boasted modern science and hygiene
was merely fayade. The coolies were
magnificent physical specimens who could
run 20 miles without having to take a
breather. The white men might be full
of whisky, undigested curry and patent
medicines, and some of them were pal-
pably very unhealthy. If the coolies had
been unhealthy they couldn’t have pulled
their rickshaws, though they were
covered with dirt and caked with per-
spiration. I didn’t mind spending
evening after evening in a clubroom play-
ing cards and drinking with my fellow
white men, whereas I would have been
horrified at the notion of spending even
one night in a lodging-house for coolies.
Yet I would have probably been in far
less danger of catching disease in the
latter place than in the other.


ABORIGINALITIES
“Solitude”: Returning home, Seventy-
fiver found the cat making faces at a
big black snake near the door. At sight
of the old bloke Joe streaked for a hole
under the floor, and half a length behind
went puss, still spitting volleys of wrath-
ful abuse. The old chap waited, but
when Tabby failed to press home the
attack he collected his dog, ripped a
board from the building and shoved the
mong inside with urgent instructions to
“Skitch him.” There came sounds of
prowling investigation, then an ominous
rumble from a far corner. “Into him,
Nigger!” All Hades broke loose under
the floor, and unseen the combat raged
from wall to wall. Seventyfiver hopped
up and down and bellowed encourage-
ment. When the commotion subsided he
sprawled on the ground and squinted
vainly through the cracks. “Fetch the
pois’nous cow, Nigger. Good boy.
Fetch him out!” The dog was reluctant,
and the old bloke ordered and coaxed
till, after being sent back the third time,
the mong finally emerged triumphant,
carrying the dead cat.
* * *
“Arev”: Bill Jupp had caught a heavy
cold and at Mrs. Jupp’s instance had
his feet in a hot mustard bath when
he heard the sound of the children com-
ing around the side of the house and,
above their childish trebles, the distinctly
feminine tones of a stranger. Bill stared
at his wife. “It must be the new school-
teacher,” he said. Mrs. Jupp nodded.
“They seem to be bringing her around
to the kitchen,” she replied. Bill gave
a jump. His feet came out of the hot
water and he rushed across the cold
linoleum and up the passage to his bed-
room. The back door opened. “Where’s
Dad?” the kids said. To Bill’s horror,
the footsteps and the feminine voice came
up the passage. Not stopping to dry his
feet. Bill hopped into bed. “Hi, Dad,”
called young Jack at the doorway. “Look
what we got. A galah. And it can talk
like anything. Ain’t it a beaut?”
* * * *
“1.M.H.”: Aboliars who question
“Narrin’s” ability to shoot a musk duck
at 200 yards must be appallingly bad
shots. Before .22 cartridges became hard
to get fish under water were fair game.
The Murray tiger snake is still allowed
his dose of lead, but after the first 50 in
two seasons we lost count of the total.
Anyone who has seen the tiger swimming
or leaping into action when disturbed
among rocks will appreciate the diffi-
culty of killing in one .22 shot (without
a rest) from a moving dinghy. Shags
and other birds with submerging ten-
dencies are simple targets, whilst rabbits,
hit through head or chest at 80 yards
and more with no support for the rifle,
are killed too often even to comment on.
Shooting is a matter of confidence, and
even a mere woman like myself can attain
accuracy of a fair order after only three
years of trigger-squeezing.
* * * #
“Bad Australian”: When the boss
threw old “Whisky” Walker out of the
galley for drunkenness and insubordi-
nation, his place was filled by Tommy
Flourbag, the half-caste abo., who didn’t
drink and was subservient to Authority
in all things. Tommy claimed to be a
first-class cook, but his “brownie” and
pastry didn’t lend much support to his
contention. When an improvement was
demanded he promised he’d “make snifter
paste bimeby,” but just now he “couldn’t
do.” Soon after he surprised the mob
by producing an apple pie and jam tart
with pastry as light as snowflakes. Ques-
tioned as to the delay in producing his
masterpieces, he explained, “Before no
catchum good fat. Sheep fat, all right, fer
make plumduff; no good fer piecrust
make tart. Y’ have to have goanna fat
fer that!”
* * * *
“Hadley”: The reason why lightning
doesn’t strike the wilga growing at Cobar
(B. 27 /1 / ’43) is that the leaves sweep
the ground, forming a natural lightning-
conductor. Stock don’t like the taste of
wilga that grows west of the Bogan,
whereas east of the Bogan, in the Mac-
quarie River country, it is rare to see a
wilga untrimmed by stock ; consequently
to shelter under one in a storm is as
dangerous as with any other tree.
* * * *
“Nor’-west”: Long ago the sergeant in
a Westralian mining town found him-
self with abo. prisoners who were tough.
Cattle-killers, they had slipped chains and
handcuffs and dug their way out of the
lockup months before ; and as sprinters it
took a mounted man to run them down.
The magistrate had forbidden manacling,
and the sergeant was getting a bit wor-
ried about it when he had a bright
idea. Hurrying across to the town’s store
he ordered “six pairs of the biggest and
heaviest bluchers you’ve got—and charge
it to the Protector of Aboriginals’ ac-
"....And you needn't worry about how I'm spending my time—I haven't
SEEN a girl for a fortnight!"
count.” So with their feet encased in
tightly-laced trilbies which made even
thoughts of running an agony the cul-
prits shuffled in to hear what the Law
had to say about their escapades.
* * *
“K.”: I’ve seen bets won on the argu-
ment that a horse can’t buck while his
tail is stretched straight out behind him.
But when the bovines start to throw
themselves about the reverse seems to be
the case. I’ve never seen a bull or a
bullock arch its back without the rudder
firmly held aloft. Don’t ask me why.
* * * *
“Propalong”: We were in the middle
of summer lamb-marking, and so short-
handed that the only man left at the
head station, 40 miles away, was Bert, a
late recruit from down in the cocky
country. Reaching the hut one night at
9.30 with a mob of ewes and lambs—
we’d started ’em walking only six miles
away before daylight that morning—we
were greeted by wild peals of the ’phone
bell. The boss answered it. Bert’s voice
leaked out into the room ; there was only
half a sheet of water in the Gorge tank
—not enough wind to work the mill.
The boss was incredulous; Bert was cer-
tain: the gauge registered half a sheet.
There were 1500 wethers on the Gorge
well, so the boss, Jack and I tumbled
into the buckboard. We hit the station
in the small hours, had a feed and got
to work with lanterns in the blacksmith
shop. After loading the engine, fuel,
connections, tools and so forth it was
breaking daylight when we got to the
Gorge. The boss levered himself out of
the seat, stood up rustily, looked blearily
around —and swore. Jack and I looked
around —and swore. Bert trembled. And
the tank was half a sheet from the top\
Bertie had only seen a patent gauge,
where the marker rises as the water rises;
ours was a home-made, one-pulley
affair —as the water rose the marker fell.
Seeing the indicator half a sheet from
the bottom Bertie jumped to conclusions.
* * * *
“The 0.D.”: “Bone” towns in the
Ma State (B. 10/2/’43) derive from
the old abo. lingo for that particular
part; actually the “bones” are concen-
trated only in the north-west of N.S.W.
In the central west of that State you find
the “ongs”: Jemalong, Euabalong, Bed-
.gerabong, Bogolong, Goolagong, etc.,
presumably having something to do with
water, since the Lachlan River is their
centre. It’s the same elsewhere ; north
of Adelaide you come on a collection of
“owies”: Terowie, Gumbowie, Yar-
cowie, Edieowie, Caltowie, Booberowie.
Victoria has its “angs,” attas” and “ools”;
Woomelang, Bangerang, Kerang, Terang,
Wangaratta, Tallangatta, Wonnangatta,
Moorabool, Underbool, Warrnambool.
Queensland has its “ahs” —Boonah,
Gayndah, Toogoolawah; Westralia its
“ins”—Corrigin, Cunderdin, Kondinin,
Merrediu. Tasmania, strangely enough,
seems to have been the one State that has
given all its larger townships, towns and
cities English names.
* l * * *
“Bumpk”: The fourth anniversary of
Black Friday has passed in Victoria with-
out a bushfire of any importance having
been reported since the onset of summer.
On Black Friday the temperature in some
parts of the State touched 120 deg. and
the wind from some invisible furnace
reached 60 m.p.h. In more than 25
shires fires raged, and 71 lives were
lost before the wind changed and the
conflagration was got under hatches. The
dreadful affair had its tragic aspects, but
there were some comic sidelights also. A
gang of voluntary firefighters who had
saved upwards of 20 homes within 15
miles of Melbourne rushed to the rescue
of a week-end dwelling belonging to a
man of some eminence. When they
got there they found only the cellar
remaining, and it was full of hock,
chablis, champagne and claret which
would be worth today heaven knows
how much a bottle. With a feel-
ing of conscious virtue they salvaged
a couple of dozen and, being utterly
exhausted by their labors, took them
to the near-by bank of the Yarra
and began to discuss them. Flames sud-
denly appeared over the hillside and
swooped down so quickly that the party
had to throw itself and the remainder of
the tipple into the river. The local small
boys spent the rest of the summer diving
for the dignitary’s bottles.
H= * * *
“Betcha”: Finishing the job of comb-
ing the far run, I fought my way through
another few miles of bush and, strik-
ing the creek, rode upstream till I came
on the old prospector who usually works
that region. “Glad y’ dropped in,” he re-
marked after a bit. “It’s time I had
more grub. On y’r way back tell the
storekeep’ t’ send us out some stuff next
week if he gits the charnst, will y’? He
c’n have it dropped at the big bend on
the Valley road, only don’t let him fer-
get becos I don’t want t’ walk them
eight miles f’r nuthin’.” I made a note
of the old chap’s needs. “Gettin’ quite
a town round these parts,” he went on.
“There’s a bloke above me somewheres,
on the crick. Ain’t seen him f’r a coupla
munce, but I’ve invited him down f’r a
yarn when he feels like it. It’ll brighten
things up f’r him; an’, anyway, it’s
enough t’ give the poor cow dingbats
workin’ up there on his own all the
time.”
* * * *
“D.R.H.”: Striking a little S.A. Mallee
farm on Christmas Day old Cleanskin re-
ceived a generous handout. Asking direc-
tions to the nearest township he was told
to follow the pipeline, so, shouldering
his swag, he set off up and down the
limestone ridges where the two-inch pipes
that carried water from the river lay on
top of the burning ground. Pretty soon
he struck a wet patch and saw the wooden
plug that had stopped a leak in the line
lying on the ground. Grateful for his
handout, the old chap picked up a gib-
ber and hammered the plug into place.
Then, seeing a shady clump of bullock
bush, he decided on a camp. After boil-
ing the billy he remembered that he had
left his knife by the pipeline and strolled
over to get it. To his surprise he found
the plug again lying on the ground,
though no water was escaping. Vir-
tuously he hammered the thing in again,
went back to his camp and fell asleep.
Waking, he pulled out his pipe and a
plug of tobacco —and remembered that
he’d forgotten to pick up his knife.
Going to the line he found the knife
and pocketed it. Then he saw the plug
again lying by the pipes. He belted
the thing into place and was just rising
when an angry voice demanded to know
what he something-well thought he was
doing. Cleanskin explained. “Leak
nothin’!” roared the angry farmer, “ere
I bin walkin’ up ’n’ down tryin’ t’ get
a flamin’ air-lock outa the pipes, an’
every time I come back from the mill
the plug’s in again.” Then Cleanskin
made a full confession, and, Christmas or
his sense of humor got the better of the
cocky. The two of them spent Boxing
Day at the pub.
♦ * * *
“Basalt”: During schooldays I was
always intrigued by the poem “Where the
Pelican Builds Her Nest,” and only
recently has my curiosity been gratified.
Their breeding-grounds are located along
the shores of the Gulf of Carpentaria,
and one I noted covered an area of fully
a mile long by half a mile wide, consist-
ing of pelicans in. every stage of growth,
from eggs to full-fledged youngsters, and
was just a moving, mass of birds as far
as the eye could see. It was “claypan”
country and the nests were only shallow
depressions in the soil without any lin-
ing, and were surrounded by fish of all
varieties and sizes, food brought by the
parents. Undoubtedly a marvellous
sight; but the smell!
* * * *
“B. A. Ker”: Paspalum may have its
uses as fodder, but when it contracts a
disease at seeding time (as it invariably
does in our N.S.W. district) the boss of
the laundry suffers an outsize in head-
aches. For years Mum has wrestled with
the black, sticky stuff that stains her men-
folk’s trouser-legs. All types of soaps
and compounds she combined with tons
of elbowgrease and found them wanting.
Even petrol failed to give satisfactory
results. Then one day an old neighbor,
hearing her tale of woe, offered to “bring
over something.” It was a colorless
liquid which, if sponged on before soaps
and suchlike had driven the stain in,
never failed. Mum tried it and proved
its worth. “It’s marvellous! What’s it
made of?” she asked the old chap. “Clear
water! ” he grinned. “But if I’d told you
anything so simple you wouldn’t have
tried it.”
* * * *
“Zake”: In a dispatch to his paper
from Papua an American correspondent,
in referring to the eerie night cries of
jungle birds, described one that gave a
nerve-shattering sound from the treetops
“like an automobile horn”; there was
also a black crow “that distinctly calls
‘oink oink’ like a pig.” Mainland crows
are übiquitously consistent with the harsh
“cark.” Possibly it was one of the
frogmouth family he heard. The tawny
frogmouth ( Podargus ) utters a deep
double note, and its “oom-oom” could
possibly be mistaken for “oink oink.
But if our friend wants to hear a sound
from a nocturnal fowl that will really lift
him out of bed in one bound with his
hair at the perpendicular he should come
south and camp in the vicinity of a
powerful or screech owl.
FINAL LEAVE.
Every window showed a light
In the house across the way,
Standing now so still and grey.
Just a year ago tonight.
From it down the darkened street
Where late strayers, idling, stood,
Dancing in a merry mood
Came the sound of many feet.
While the folk on either side
Wondered what ’twas all about,
Light and music flooded out
From its doorway opened wide.
Robbed of sleep and wide awake,
Much they queried what event
’Twas that caused such merriment,
Free of sadness and heartache.
When the dancers danced no more
And the revelry was done,
Stood a mother and her son
All alone at yonder door.
As the dawn greyed land and sea
And the stars paled overhead—
“Go with joy,” the mother said,
“And God keep you safe for me!”
N.S.W.
RODERIC QUINN.


"It's good to be back after being cooped up in a flat for a fortnight."
“Old-timer”: Bluey and Dutch, broke
and thirsty, drifted into Narromine one
summer day on the tail of a duststorm
from the west. Narromine wasn’t in a
receptive mood. It had been a long, hot
week, business had been poor and publi-
cans turned nasty eyes on parched
nomads with empty pockets. Towards
sundown the pair forgathered near the
river and sought a camp. The hot air
was pregnant with electricity, and a big
thunder-rain looked imminent, so they
got themselves into the deserted pumping
station. Dutch announced his intention
of making a last effort and left for the
town ; Blue laid the swags out on the
floor of the engine-room and lay down.
“Don’t be too fussy,” he said. “Fussy!”
snorted Dutch. “The way lam I’d drink
anything. Any blanky thing at all.” A
couple of hours later Dutch got back.
He came in from the pouring rain to find
Blue perched on the boiler and about a
foot of oily water sloshing about on the
floor. “Where’s me swag?” he howled.
“Like mine,” answered Blue easily. Sunk
without a blasted trace.” Dutch let loose
properly. “Don’t fret,” said Blue sooth-
ingly ; “you’re the bloke what was ready
t’ drink anything. Well, wire into that
stuff on the floor and y’ might find the
knots.” Then Dutch produced four
bottles and Blue nearly fell off the boiler.
“Now,” he said gladly as the last gurgle
died away, “if a man only had a dry bunk
he could sleep happy.” “You’ll have a
dry bunk,” said Dutch; “but sleepin
happy’s another matter. I half-inched
them bottles an’ was There s
the police cornin’ now.”
* * * *
“Basalt”; Apart from its legitimate one,
a N.Q. cattle station has a unique herd
consisting of approximately 300 head of
Indian deer, the originals of which were
a buck and two does, imported about 60
years ago. The buck becoming danger-
ous around the homestead, they were
banished to the bush, where, despite din-
goes and droughts, they survived and
multiplied, and today their descendants
roam wild and unmolested by humans.
In very dry seasons they approach the
homestead gardens at night, and to a
newcomer the scream of a doe or the
clashing of a buck’s antlers adds a fresh
and intriguing note to the myriad sounds
of a bush night.
* * * *
“Louden”: We were mustering wethers
on a Riverina run when a fog slid down
on us quickly. After riding blind for
about 20 minutes I found myself, in the
clearing mist, near the junction of the
creek and the river with all the dogs, in-
cluding a greyhound, following me. I
was about to turn and go up the creek
when I spotted a fox crouched beside the
creek and gazing intently at a pair of
black ducks swimming a few feet away
from him. Giving the low, long-drawn
“Here, here!” that all the dogs under-
stood, I got them to within 20 yards of
the fox before it saw us and bolted.
Down the creek went Reynard, pursued
by the tykes, and into the confluence of
the streams, which was about the worst
thing he could have done, for the grey-
hound was an excellent swimmer. With
long, powerful strokes the hound streaked
straight across river and, waitipg at the
water’s edge, got an easy catch when the
fox, after having been carried some dis-
tance down-river by the current, dragged
itself ashore just ahead of the sheep-dogs.
« * * *
“Boxer”: Quartpot was counting out
the gun-shearer’s pen. “Thirty-nine!” he
called. “Forty!” corrected the gun.
“Thirty-nine,” insisted Quartpot. “Forty,
you numbskull rouseabout,” yelled the
gun. “Well, you might be right,” replied
the abo. “There’s a couple here stuck
together with blood an’ tar, an’ I prob-
ably counted ’em as one! ”
* * * *
“No. 1 Bench”: In Westralia she-oak
is regarded as very much behind the run-
ning as a firewood. But it is the super-
timber for the building of handsome fur-
niture, items of turnery, gauges and the
blocks for carpenters’ planes; while, not
least, it machines out into staves that
equal the English oak for the building
of barrels, both for brewed and fer-
mented liquors. But its best use is as a
roof shingle. Old-timers used to saw an
18in. trunk up into 16in. lengths, then,
standing these on end, work right round
with a shingler’s knife, just tapping with a
hammer and having the shingles come off
as clean as split slates. True she-oak has
a laminated figure which runs parallel
with the trunk, from the heart of the tree
to the bark. It is this that gives such
clean splitting. And it also resists split-
ting across the grain. So when the roofer
laid his shingles he drove the nails in
without fear, for never a she-oak shingle
will split. Given an occasional coat of
oil, 50 years can be reckoned as the life
of a she-oak roof. Old Gropers used to
boast of some still defying the rain after
75 years.
* * * »
“Mat’s Mate”: “This country/’ Mat
argued, “is too big an’ too flamin inter-
estin’ f’r a man t’ take up land in it.
Now look, I bin all over the place an
worked f’r dozens of blokes on places
from 10 t’ 100,000 acres, an’ d’y’ know
what I found? Every one of them blokes
was pinned down on his block, see? They
couldn’t leave an’ go t’ Queensland or
down t’ Mt. Gambier or over t’ the West
for a year, ’cos there was always too
much work t’ be done. No, w^ s
pinned down in one spot. Well, mat s
no good t’ me. I gotter see this country
before I settle down, an’ I couldnt do
that if I took up land. This country s
full o’ colors and climates an hills
plains an’ rivers an’ towns an lakes an
cities an’ things, an’ I wanter see em, a
of ’em. So you keep on farmin’ an HI
keep on trampin’, see?” The cocky
rubbed his chin. “Yair,” he said,
reckon 1 see, an’ if I was younger I might
be with you. But somehow I’d never be
satisfied unless I had a bit of land t’ call
me own an’ work on.” “You,” said Mat,
“are one of them blokes with roots in
the soil; you’re a perennial. Me, I’m
just a bloomin’ annual, planted in a dif-
ferent spot every year.” The cocky
sighed. “Well,” he said, “perennials and
annuals both gotter have liquid nourish-
ment” —and he led the way.
* * *
“Jayem”: Long Harry had a fair-sized
flock of poultry and was giving the new
land-girl an insight into the management
of the birds. They were preparing the
incubator for action, and Harry was at
great pains to explain the operation of
the machine. The girl took it all ip, but
when the long ’un asked her if she under-
stood it she replied: “Yes, but what
puzzles me is where the hens sit!”
* * * *
“B. 4”: As the mullet came in and went
out with the tide well up a shallow
coastal creek, we tried to get a few per
medium of dough-and-cheese baits.
Though we cast never so deftly, the
brutes merely jumped like scalded cats.
Nets set were hurdled with flashing leaps
which landed them safely t’other side of
another net stretched flat to catch the
bounders. We then resorted to the rifle
and “jelly,” which aroused the ire and
disturbed the repose of the local cop,
who forthwith switched from pubs to
poachers. We had followed up a large
incoming shoal, and as they turned
leisurely seawards we threw in a double
plug timed to skittle them as they drifted
over. While we hid in the lantana and
waited, a boat containing the cop and a
nark, trailing us, came into view round
a mangrove. We realised that unless we
intervened there would be more than fish
at the meeting, but as my cobber said
“Oh, blast them!” decided on that course.
The plug must have heard, too, for an
eruption of boat, mud, water, cop,
crawler and curses shot skywards as. fish
leapt in all directions. Having seen the
crew emerge from their dive and stagger
about emptying earfuls of muddy water
and mouthfuls of promises, we sneaked
away to laugh it off. Later the boat was
recovered with its bottom damaged. The
cop slept upside down and fed off the
wall plate for the rest of the week, while
his man Friday faded off if we
approached. He always was a suspicious
sort.
* * * *
“Padflogger”: Back in the days when
sugar, white and brown, used to come to
Australia in sacks made of matting, Hug-
gins the storekeeper tossed an empty to
Jacky-Jacky, the “King Billy” of our vil-
lage. Borrowing a kerosene-tin Jacky
and his pals put the bag in to soak. Soon
they were around with pannikins dipping
out the brew. It was sweet, for it had
been a brown-sugar bag with plenty stick-
ing on, and it also had the peculiar flavor
of the pandanus leaves from which the
matting was woven. But before long
every nigger of them was displaying
symptoms of intoxication. Laughing
hilariously they went through all the cus-
tomary antics of the local drunks. Pies-
ently Foley, the new copper, happened
along. “Who’s been supplying these abos.
with drink?” he demanded. It was a
serious offence even in those days. And
he promptly accused Deans the publican.
“I haven’t given one of them a spoonful,”
Deans protested. To build up his evi-
dence Foley called the doctor —who made
the elementary test of smelling Jacky s
breath. “Not a whiff. He’s not drunk.’
So it ended with Foley belting the tribe
out of the village with the wet bag. But
were those nigs, really drunk? Did the
strong draught of sugar and molasses act
on them as an intoxicant, or were they
merely putting on a show —having got a
skinful of liquid did they think it ought
to make them shick, as a skinful did the
white man?
* * * *
“Jindivick”: Was riding back from a
dance one night with a cocky’s son when
a heavy storm broke. It was in pitch-dark-
ness in country where tracks went in all
directions, and I soon lost my companion
and pushed op back to my own camp.
Next morning I was out early to look
for stock that had strayed. Several miles
out I came across young cocky, drenched
and walking his horse home. He ex-
plained that he’d dismounted and led his
horse —it being so dark he reckoned Pom
Pom wouldn’t be able to see his way. It
would be interesting to know what the
prad thought of his owner’s superior
intuition.
F * * *
“Niloc”: The mob at the pub watched
in amazed awe as the stranger sank his
twelfth pot. “Bit dry?” ventured Harry.
“No, it ain’t that,” said the beer-swiller.
“It’s like this, y’ see. Last week when
I was boozed me dorg started an argu-
ment with me about sheep-dips. He
didn’t like ’em, an’ I’m damned if I could
convince him they was any good, so 1m
goin’ to have another go this arvo!’
* * * *
“Moyhu”: A long drought had
stopped the river. At one deep hole the
shrinking waters revealed a jumbled mass
of steel, steering wheels and old tyres.
Insurance companies got wind of the
automobile cemetery, but before their
sleuths arrived the drought broke and the
derelicts again vanished. No further
action was taken, to the relief of a resi-
dent whose proud boast, “complete dis-
appearance guaranteed,” had been so un-
expectedly exploded. As he says, the
trouble with inland rivers is that they
have no salt content, which would soon
make a hash of the engine numbers.
* * * *
“Loc”: “All you’ve got to do is hold
the reins and old Clipper’ll keep straight
furrows,” said Dad to the youth who
obviously Wouldn’t tell a legrope from
a sliprail. Clipper blinked as if in
amazement at the first praise that he had
ever heard. Tossing a clod, Dad started
the prad in motion, and then it was his
turn to blink. Never before had that
horse selected the shortest distance from
one end of the field to the other. On
the strength of it, he had a cup of tea,
but the shock wore off when he again
surveyed the field. Nothing else had been
done, and horse, plough and driver had
disappeared. This discovery coincided
with a telephone message from “The
Royal” in the township to say that Dad’s
horse with plough attached and a frantic
hand bringing up the rear had been tear-
ing up and down the main street, and
would he come and collect it, because
it was having bad effects on the cus-
tomers. The message ended with advice
to Dad to bring some early turnip seeds
as the street was now just about right
for sowing.
"Well, well go back if you insist."
MARCHING.
When we go marching through the little town.
The wild pipes playing to our steady swing,
The people lay their tools of labor down;
And, like swift sunshine, happy faces bring
Their smiles to meet us, while the children
crowd
In glad surprise, our mascots for the day,
Their little feet invading like a cloud
Of gentle shadows where the daisies sway.
The passing shopper, the old gentleman
Who spends his morning ambling in the sun,
The bright-eyed girl who drives the baker s
van —
Smile as we pass, and all their cares are gone.
What if the world-wide war is three years old!
The peaceful sun I know shall not go down —
And smiles will pave the streets to gleam like
gold .
When we go marching through our little town.
A.I.F.
VICTOR BLADEN.


lysaqhts
li
ROOf
IHUMtWW
100% Australian-made
from Australian Material
Wire Netting
Wire Nails
Our Netting and Other Products are
known throughout the Commonwealth
as of the highest standard.
LOOK for Our MARKER in
every Roll of Netting.
LYSAGHT’S
Fencing Wire
ESTABLISHED 1884
Barbed Wire
Zinc Oxide
QUALITY GUARANTEED .
Obtainable from all the Leading
Merchants, Storekeepers and Agents.
Lysaght Bros. & Co. Pty., Ltd.
Head Office: 17-19 Bridge Street, Sydney.
SPECIFY
"LYSAGHT'S" WIRE, WIRE NETTING. ETC.
THE MAN ON
THE LAND
"DON'T WORRY, I'M SENDING IT TO
GRAZCOS."
More Regimentation.
“C.P.”: The Australian Meat Indus-
try Commission’s pig plan, which was
announced with the usual fanfare of
trumpets and which is declared to be the
basis of a mutton plan and a beef plan,
is nothing more than an attempt to sub-
stitute Government control for the old
and proven forms of meat marketing.
Prices are to be fixed by the Prices Com-
missioner, and the sound method of
assessing the value of stock by ruling
auction prices will go. There is “no in-
tention of upsetting sales by auction,”
but you can’t have fixed prices and auc-
tion prices, too, without utter confusion.
On Government-fixed prices, few pro-
ducers will be able to value their stores,
their lambs or their pigs, to say nothing
of c.f.a. ewes.
The levy of id. per pound on pigmeats
should net the Government £70,000 a
year from Queensland alone if that State
attains the pigmeat quota set for it.
Queensland “Country Life” has esti-
mated that the same levy applied to pig-
meat, mutton and beef, based on stock
slaughtered in 1938-39, would mean the
A.M.I.C. raking in £2,183,029 each year.
To estimate what it is likely to give the
producers in return, think carefully of
apples and pears, potatoes and wheat.
Woolmen are to get what Minister
Scully calls “country appraisement
centres.” They didn’t ask for them —
meat producers didn’t ask for their three
plans—and pretty well all sections of the
wool trade are against the notion. Mr.
Scully claims that, in N.S.W., Sydney and
Newcastle centres can’t accommodate
any more wool. They handled three war
clips and two-thirds of a fourth without
a hitch, and, since most of the wool must
eventually go to the established centres,
the new scheme means double handling.
Man-power and material are to be used
building the new country stores, brokers
will need to have staff travelling to and
from the new centres and State Wool
Committees will have more work thrust
upon them. Whereas the existing wool-
stores were built at the woolsellers’ ex-
pense, the new stores will be built with
tax money; war-time storage sheds in
existing centres were paid for by the
British Government, but the new sheds
will be paid for by Australian taxpayers.
Pig-raising.
“Huxave”: The site for the piggery
must have good drainage and a north
to nor’-east aspect for maximum sun-
shine. Pig houses must be dry and com-
fortable, otherwise health is affected.
Don’t buy breeding stock of doubtful
parentage; get them from a reliable
breeder. Brood sows or boars should be
eight to ten months old before they’re
mated. Breeding of “typy” pigs when
they’re younger is a cause of waste.
Every pregnant sow is worth special
food and care while she’s in the paddock.
A pig kept in a yard that’s too small to
allow exercise can’t be expected to thrive.
Grow as much of the menu as is pos-
sible on the farm and watch the young
pig’s feed. If it’s unbalanced and methods
are unhygienic, growth will be retarded
and disease and losses occur.
Castration at four months avoids the
check in growth that results from a later
job. At weaning it’s better to take the
sow away from the suckers than the
suckers from the sow. Change of resi-
dence upsets ’em and starts fretting.
In branding use the body tattoo ; it
doesn’t disfigure the carcass as does fire-
branding.
And in the end remember all this care
in production shouldn’t be jeopardised by
careless transport to market.
Irrigation for Cane.
“Pat Ater”: Cane grown under irri-
gation has been shown to pay hand-
somely on the Lower Burdekin (Q.).
With a comparatively low rainfall (for
canegrowing) of 40 inches, there was a
first return of 70 tons of average cane
with longer joints arid practically no
losses from refractory juices. It’s attri-
buted to extra sunlight. At Innisfail,
with an average rainfall of 140 inches,
where there are long periods of dull,
cloudy weather, a first return of 45 tons
“Dave tells me they use 'em quite a lot in the Middle East."
per acre is usual, and the cane is often
short-jointed.
It is argued against irrigation methods
that there’s a loss of first and perhaps
second “ratoons,” owing to banking-up
during the irrigating period. This could
be overcome by cutting away of lower
joints after levelling to the original, or
bottom, butts, when the stools should
come away quickly.
Tomatoes as Rotations.
“H.C.”: Following beans a late
tomato crop on the coast will produce
right through the winter. The change-
over gives the soil a chance to build up
and bean diseases won’t affect the toma-
toes.
Work a light dressing of super, into the
seedbed about four days before planting.
Sow the seed thinly in rows four to five
inches apart and cover lightly with sandy
soil. If the weather’s dry keep damp
hessian over the surface until germina-
tion, after which the plants need a pro-
tective frame against heat and heavy
downpours.
Plant late-crop seedlings up to their
first pair of leaves. Allow about 18in.
between the plants and 4ft. between the
rows. Let the bushes develop two main
stems. Cluster types need heavier prun-
ing than the globes to produce frpit of
the right marketing size. Green manure
should be turned in six weeks and animal
manure four weeks before transplant-
ing. If either is not necessary, sprinkle
equal parts of super, and bone-
dust along the planting furrow. Ordi-
nary soils need Bcwt. to the acre, heavy
scwt. Plant immediately over the fer-
tiliser.
First side or top dressings of fertiliser
should be given when most of the small
fruit have formed in the first bunch ;
the second when the top settings have de-
veloped. Furrow irrigation is best; wet
foliage is then avoided and disease tenden-
cies reduced. Overwatering ruins quality.
Varieties which pollinate readily and yield
heavily during winter months are
Walker’s Recruit, Potentate, Break o’ Day
and Bonny Best.
Saving Stored Potatoes.
“Pat Ater”: There’ll be losses from
potato moth grub this season unless pre-
cautions are taken at digging time.
Stored tubers are quickly affected. The
grub hatches from eggs laid in the eyes
while the spuds are either in the ground
—not properly covered —or lying on the
surface before being bagged.
Often there is no sign of infestation
on the tubers when dug and these can be
saved by careful dusting. Pyrethrum
and derris dusts are hard to get, but
N. C. Lloyd, entomologist of the N.S.W.
Department of Agriculture, has obtained
excellent results with a mixture of crude
pyridine and kaolin. Care in dusting is
the main thing. Use 11b. of the mixture
to each bag. Either put the potatoes in
a large drum or barrel, revolving it for
two minutes, or roll them in a dust
“bath” or film on the floor. Use a blunt
instrument for this work to avoid skin
damage. Remove and bag each lot until
all are treated. This new process is better
than the older messy and dangerous car-
bon-bisulphide fumigation.
The long, dry and hot period following
earlier rains is favorable for the opera-
tions of potato moth in the field. Keep
the rows well hilled and the soil pressed
back firmly against the haulms to avoid
leaving any “cracks” into which the moth
may enter and lay its eggs.
Hints for the Farm.
“J.R.D.”: Disinfectants, sheepdips,
drenches and many other concentrated
powders used on the farm have to be
made up as solutions of varying strength
for different purposes. This table shows
the correct proportions of solids to water
to obtain strengths of from 1 p.c. to 10
p.c. Intermediate solutions or those re-
quiring a higher percentage can easily be
worked out:
Solid- Water. Strength, p.c,
11b. .. 10 gallons .. 1
loz. .. 5 pints .. i
lib. .. 5 gallons .. 2
loz. .. 2| pints .. 2
Hb. .. 2\ gallons .. 4
loz. .. 25 ft. oz. .. 4
Hb. .. 2 gallons .. S
loz. .. 1 pint 5
Hb- .. 1 gallon .. ]6
loz. ■. \ pint .. 10
“Mackay”: Rhodes grass is paspalum’s
main rival in Queensland for grass hay.
As a perennial it costs little in upkeep,
improves the soil and its running habit
stops erosion. It is rich in proteins and
other nutrients. Grown on fertile soil
young stands yield two cuttings per year
that average 1| to two tons to the acre.
As grass, coastal stock often pass it
over ; they’ll eat it as hay.
“Goulburn”: Best grains to feed with
skim-milk to calves is a mixture of
ground oats and barley. Start within
three or four weeks of birth, and put the
meal in the bucket after the calf has
finished the milk. Begin with a small
quantity and gradually work up to 31b.
or 41b. a day.
“Canbelego”: A good dairy cow needs
a jaw that is broad, low and squarely set.
Cull a cow with a “pig” jaw, a fault
which can be inherited by the progeny.
Ability to gather food naturally and
soundness of the feet and legs, confor-
mation of the udder and space between
the hocks have great influence on pro-
ductive capacity. Leg weakness re-
stricts walking and may be inherent. A
low, pendulous udder is likely to be
injured from bumping against the hind
legs. Hocks should point slightly out-
wards and be widely separated.
“Bundalinga”: If the milk is tainted
when lucerne hay is fed, try feeding im-
mediately after milking. Tests have
shown that lucerne hay should be fed at
least four hours before milking if flavor
is to be avoided.
“Katanning Line”; Just in case you
easterners don’t know it, Westralia turns
out some good fat lambs, too. One of
the best recent consignments to Fre-
mantle export works was one of 3136
from L. J. Stacey, of Quairading. A
thousand of the mothers were Border
Leicester - merino x Romney - merino,
mated to Southdowns, and 3040 merino-
comeback and Corriedale crosses were
mated to Dorsets. There were only 93
rejects from the consignment for over-
weight; the balance averaged 39.781 b. and
77.9 p.c. were graded first-class. Net
return to the grower on the hoof was
21s. 6d. a head. A special train of 30
vans took the lambs to Fremantle, a
State record for one consignor.
“Thong”: Heavy losses, ruthless mea-
sures necessary to stamp it out and the
finance necessary to recompense pig-
farmers in the present outbreak of swine
fever in New South Wales leave no illu-
sions as to its vicious nature. A possible
result of the alarm may be a tendency to
regard any sudden sickness of pigs as
swine fever. Cases of sudden sickness
should be immediately reported, but it is
quite easy to mistake other diseases for
swine fever and a post-mortem should
be made.
“Sessue”: American production goals
for 1943 make our own look tiny. The
U.S. is after 122,000,000,0001 b. of milk.
25.700.000. of meat (nearly a third
above normal consumption in U.S.A.),
4.000. of chicken and
560.000. of turkey. In crops
10,500,000 acres of soya beans, 5,500,000
acres of peanuts, 5,000,000 acres of flax
for seed, 95,000,000 acres of maize are
wanted, with up to 25 p.c. increases in
beans, peas, tobacco, sugar beet and
sugarcane and potatoes and salad crops.
Wheat is the only crop to suffer acreage
reduction ; it drops from 53,477,000 in
1942 to 52,500,000.


Australian, Mercantile, Land & Finance
Company, Limited
(INCORPORATED IN ENGLAND IN 1863)
WOOL, FAT STOCK, STORE AND STUD STOCK,
PRODUCE AND PROPERTY SALESMEN
General Manager for Australia; R. SINCLAIR SMITH.
ADVANCES MADE ON GRAZING PROPERTIES, ON STOCK, AND ON
CONSIGNMENTS OF WOOL, SKINS, HIDES, TALLOW, ETC.
LICENSED AUCTIONEERS, STOCK AND STATION AGENTS.
lT SYDNEY OFFICE: A. M. MURDOCH, Manager.
ALSO AT MELBOURNE, BRISBANE, NEWCASTLE, WAGGA, HENTY, HAY, MOREE,
TOWNSVILLE, CHARLEVILLE, BUENOS AIRES, LONDON.
GENERAL AGENTS IN NEW SOUTH WALES FOR NORTHERN ASSURANCE CO.. LTD.
CO
BADIOTRON
4JIBTKALUN GENERAL. ELECTRIC EROPKIETAR*, LTD.,
S 3 Clarence Street. Sydney.
AMALGAMATED WIRELESS (A/SIA), LTD.,
72 Clarence Street, Sydney.
Advertisement of ilmaltamatcd Wireless Valve Co. Ety., Ltd.
OnSewC
tOfwCuel
'OR DOM £S S T,c
SElm... you c rtNQ£
conserve and
PW aJvesb «-
. f -^« d^-eded i
J
UNCABLED ADDITIONS
Mac Arthur in New Guinea.
[This personal pen-picture report was written
by an American United Press correspondent
who was on the spot with General MacArthur
during the Papua fighting.]
General Douglas MacArthur is not
wearing his gold-colored cap these days
and his khaki blouse is as bare of decora-
tions as a newly-inducted private, for he
is stripped for action and back on the
fighting front, matching his skill against
Japanese cunning.
It’s a far cry from the heartbreaking
days of Bataan when Mac Arthur’s men
were on the defensive with their backs to
the sea and Corregidor only a temporary
haven. This time the Japanese are on
the defensive, and General MacArthur
personally is directing the drive.
The general’s headquarters is only a
short distance by air from the front lines.
It is within easy range of Japanese
bombers, which several times attacked
the area but did not hit the headquarters.
General MacArthur lives in a roomy
house that his engineers transformed into
comfortable, efficient quarters. They
screened the windows and verandahs to
keep out the mosquitoes that former
residents endured for generations. Gen-
eral MacArthur could have endured the
mosquitoes—just like his men in the field
—but he reasoned that he and his staff
could work more efficiently without stop-
ping every few seconds to swat the pests.
The only stars visible around head-
quarters are those on the Papuan native
workers’ ramis sarongs. These gar-
ments are white, with red edges, and each
bears a single blue star to designate that
the wearer works for “the No. 1 general.”
General MacArthur’s staff car bears
four white stars on a scarlet background
and occasionally swirls up New Guinea
roads, kicking up clouds of dust, to take
the commander-in-chief on a visit to the
front.
Most of the time he paces the veran-
dahs of his house, his hands clasped be-
hind his back, his head bent low, think-
ing up new ways how to whip the
Japanese.
When he decides to move, General
MacArthur uncoils like a wound-up
spring. I have seen him lifting an agile
leg over a rope barrier and scrambling
down boulder-strewn slopes, always a
pace or two ahead of his official retinue.
His entry into operations headquarters
always is dramatic. “Morning, gentle-
men,” he says crisply to his staff members
standing at attention.
Like any other soldier in the field, the
general likes to receive and write letters.
Daily he dispatches notes by air courier
to his wife and son, Arthur, in Australia.
Africa Plan Details.
(These details of the planning for the Africa
campaign were given in Washington by U.S.
Assistant Secretary of War John J. McCloy.)
The Germans, especially after the con-
centration at Gibraltar, knew that Afri-
can landings were planned. But they did
not know it far enough in advance, or
in sufficient details as to the landing
places, to take what would appear to
have been obvious measures. The plan
carried in general and in detail, though
more than 1500 persons knew of it last
summer.
It called for infinite detailed informa-
tion: the characteristics of beaches and
tides at each point and the likely ob-
stacles to be encountered. One kind of
landing craft would do well in the Straits,
but another was required for the western
landings. Cargoes had to be distributed
so that the loss of one or several ships
would not cripple the expedition, and
loaded so that they would come out in
inverse order exactly as needed on the
shore.
The forces that left Britain went 1000
miles into the Atlantic before turning
back toward North Africa, and from
America the troops travelled 3000 miles
by sea. At different points the ships
separated so that the expedition might
appear at fixed points off the coast, as
it did, ready to start landing within five
minutes of the time selected two months
previously. It was the largest military
landing expedition in history. And it
was made through an ocean crowded
with submarines.
While Lieut.-Gen. Montgomery’s offen-
sive from Egypt was timed to coincide
with the African landings, these were not
dependent on its success. So much was
in motion at the time of the El Alamein
attack on Rommel that no turning back
was possible.
The fortunate meeting of eastbound
and westbound storms made the coastal
seas calmer than they have been for 68
years.
Why Darlan Was Used.
[In this informative N.Y. “Times” article
Arthur Knock exposes the shallow thinking
of those expatriate Frenchmen and others
who were so volubly against General Eisen-
hower’s use of Admiral Darlan.]
The opinion of international lawyers,
confirmed by European diplomats,
is that unless some constituted French
authority had been recognised and dealt
with by the Army in North Africa the
restoration of the territory to France
after the war would have been compli-
cated both legally and morally.
The only French authority that could
be found with the willingness to issue
and the power to enforce pro-Ally orders
to French military officers and civilians
was Admiral Darlan. The Fighting
French insist that General de Gaulle
could have been put in that position of
authority if the United States had given
him and his followers the opportunity,
but this theory is not accepted by Wash-
ington and probaby not by London
either, since North African appointees—
down to petty bureaucrats and corporals
—owe their jobs to the Vichy Govern-
ment. The United States would have
entrusted French interests in North
Africa to General Giraud in the first
place, but the general himself discovered
he could not command the obedience
Admiral Darlan could, and approved the
arrangement with the admiral.
Thus it was that Darlan became the
constituted French authority in North
Africa. Despite the fact that military
necessity was the basis of this act of
expediency, and that it admittedly saved
thousands of American lives and
shortened the timetable of combat
operations, many critics have asserted
that no collaboration was preferable to
one of expediency with Darlan. It is to
this contention that the international
lawyers address their point, which
experienced diplomats sustain.
In the Atlantic Charter the President
and Prime Minister Churchill agreed
upon the following post-war principle,
among others: —
They respect the rights of all peoples
to choose the form of government under
which they will live; and they wish to see
sovereign rights and self-government
restored to those who have been forcibly
deprived of them.
What the historian says of the con-
quest of Algeria by the French is gener-
ally true of French Morocco and
Tunisia: “The land had to be wrested
from the natives yard by yard.” The
three dominions have an area of
1,058,364 square miles and a population
of 16,138,997 (the estimate of 1936).
And of the more than 16,000,000 only
1,125,068 are French.
Suppose General Eisenhower, after dis-
covering that collaboration with Admiral
Darlan was the only one that would be
effective, had assumed the position of
the critics. The alternative would have
been to institute an American military
governorship. This would have washed
out the post-war claims of France for the
restoration of the territory, if the Atlan-
tic Charter is to be read in the light of
its spirit as well as in accordance with
its text. And international law, as often
construed, would also have supported the
aspirations of the overwhelming native
majority to regain sovereignty over their
own lands after possession of them had
passed from the conqueror.
By what construction of international
law and of the Atlantic Charter could
the United States or Great Britain, sit-
ting at the peace-table, have insisted that
there should be restored to France alien
countries and populations which had
been won by conquest, lost in war and
had then demanded “the right of all
peoples to choose the form of govern-
ment under which they will live”?
This, in the opinion of the internar
tional lawyers and diplomats, is the
knotty post-war problem which General
Eisenhower would have created for the
United Nations if he had hauled down
the Tricolor and set up an American
military Government, because the only
practical alternative was collaboration
with Admiral Darlan.
There was another alternative, of
course. General Eisenhower could have
set up an ineffective puppet Government
under a Frenchman whose orders would
not have been obeyed by the Vichy offi-
cers and officials in North Africa. This
would have maintained the foundation
for the claims of post-war France to re-
tain Tunisia, Algeria and French
Morocco. But the device would have
been adopted at the sacrifice of vital time
and thousands of American lives. And
the general would have been subordinat-
ing military considerations to political
ones. What would have been the atti-
tude of Washington and the country if
this had been the general’s course, with
its obvious disastrous consequences?
Instead, he found a way to safeguard
France’s sovereignty in North Africa and
add to his own military strength and
protections.
U.S. Airmen at Darwin.
[Condensed from an “Air Facts” (U.S.A.)
article by Lucien Hubbard, author of Rivers to
the Sea, and for 20 years a successful U.S.
picture producer; among others, he produced
“Wings,” first of the big airplane movies.]
Blank Squadron, U.S. Army Air
Forces, on duty in the North-west Aus-
tralia Combat Zone, went from the
United States to the defence of the Port
Darwin area. It was a shipload of rather
bewildered young men who were thrown
into this harassed land. Some of them
were still under 21, none over 24. Port
Darwin had been blasted in one searing
attack; civilians had been evacuated ; it
was believed that the Japs were forming
an expedition on Timor for immediate
invasion.
The shore line of that tropic region is
fringed with mangrove swamps and
deeply indented with crocodile-infested
bayous. The ground crawls with ants
and the air is filled with mosquitoes bear-
ing malaria, dengue and yellow fever.
It is hot and dusty in the dry season, hot
and steamy in the wet. Every mile looks
like every other mile ; and the trees are
off the same assembly line. So most of
the youngsters —who fly halfway across
the Timor Sea almost every day—won’t
trust themselves a hundred yards from'
camp when they’re on the ground. Too
easy to get lost, they say —they who can
find in any weather the little strip which
is their runway.
Moving into a camp hacked out of vir-
gin brush, the Group might well have
been miserable if they had not been too
busy fighting the Japs. In Zeros and
bombers the Japs came again and again,
and the green kids went up to meet them.
What they accomplished was proved by
the score which, when I first saw it on
the bulletin board at Officers’ Mess,
stood:
Jap. U.S.
Losses. Losses.
Fighters .. .. .. 25 15
Bombers .. .. .. 25 0
Miscellaneous .. .. .. I 0
Total ’planes ~ .. .. 51 15
Personnel .. .. ..152 4
The centre of everything is the Offi-
cers’ Mess; concrete floor ; tin roof, open
on all sides for coolness ; mess table and
benches, easy chairs (looted from the
Darwin Hotel by persons unknown), card
tables, phonograph, radio. Dispersed
under the trees for safety are the tents
in each of which three or four pilots live.
There are four ’planes in a flight. One
flight is always standing by. Near
each flight is the “alert hut” where pilots
on duty read, drowse and talk about
home.
Sometimes the telephone rings. If it
is a short ring they answer it. If it is
a long one they let it ring. They drown
out its noise with the roar of their motors,
for a long ring means an alert and every
second counts. Altitude —if they can
only get altitude before the Zeros come.
Life or death for them may hang on a
thousand feet more or a thousand feet
less ; ten seconds sooner or ten seconds
later.,
1 arrived at the fighter station just in
time for dinner. Take any fraternity
house, with the gang coming in and push-
ing one another around, bawling insults,
humming or whistling snatches of jazz,
settling noisily and tearing into their food
with youthful gusto —take all that and
set it down into the antipodean jungle
and you have their mess.
Talk was about the war in other parts
of the world, of movies, baseball, jazz
and of what they were reading. Soon
the singing started: something frankly
ribald like “I Touched Her on the Toe,”
followed without a pause by “Girl of My
Dreams” or “The Sweetheart of Sigma
Chi,” dripping with the memory of moon-
lit nights on the campus.
The other boys sauntered over to the
easy chairs and settled down to smoke,
read, talk and play—of all things—
monopoly. This game, which involves
selling and buying mythical houses and
business property, seemed to exert a
strange fascination upon these landless
youths who were giving their best years
to the business of killing and being killed.
Perhaps they liked it because the playing
took so long and filled so much time


WE PURCHASE/
E
NTKATE
AND OTHER MATERIALS CONTAINING
• GOLD
• SILVER
• COPPER
Prompt Settlement at Best Available Rates
Write Todav
to our:
REGISTERED OFFICE; 25 O'Connell Street, SYDNEY.
MELBOURNE OFFICE: 360 Collins Street. MELBOURNE.
WORKS; PORT KEMBLA, N.S.W.
TM
ELECTISOLYTIIG EEEHNM® 8? SMELTIN
COMPANY Of AUSTEALHA PTY. LT®.
in which a fellow might otherwise be
thinking.
By day the boys played volleyball
on a court they had made. When any-
one said “Let’s play volleyball,” everyone
laid down his book and went into it.
How could you know but that the fellow
who suggested the game was going
through those dark hours you yourself
went through at times, when you won-
dered how much longer you had to live
and if you would ever see home again?
The feeling of all for one and one for
all was hidden by a lusty veneer of in-
sults and clowning, yet you knew that in
any issue between any one of them and
the outer world they would all move in
behind their man. Theirs is the frater-
nalism of a common fate ; the rest of
the world is outside it.
One day, 27 Jap bombers and 22
fighters came over, of which the Squadron
destroyed two bombers and seven fighters
and their crews. We lost one ’plane but
the pilot was saved. On another day 27
more bombers and 20 Zeros came. Four
bombers and nine fighters were shot
down this time, without the loss of a
single U.S. ’plane.
The Group’s score now was:
Jap. U.S.
Losses. Losses.
Fighters 41 16
Bombers .. .. ~ 31 0
Miscellaneous .. .. .. 1 0
Total ’planes 73 16
Personnel . . .. . . 218 4
While Jap losses had risen by 22 ships
and 66 men, our own had increased by
but one ’plane, without loss of life.
What Americans Are Saying.
(Condensed from various acknowledged
sources.')
The most important thing for the Anglo-
American world to accept right now is the fact
that sheer numbers, in which it is weak, have
come to count heavily in the scales of war.
No one who notes what the U.S.S.R. accom-
plished in twenty years, beginning with a country
of bewildered and ignorant peasants, can laugh
away as useless natives the three or four hun-
dred millions now under Japan. It is because
Asia has the great populations that it is the
heart of the whole conflict. —“Atlantic
Monthly.”
* * *
War’s end before next December is unwar-
ranted optimism. Military men still talk of
several years of fighting. —Washington corre-
spondent, “Wall-street Journal.’'’
* * * *
Early in January, 1942, a Qerman officer
was killed in Dijon, France, by anti-Nazi
Frenchmen. The Germans seized 100 hostages,
50 to be shot immediately and 50 to be shot
“if the perpetrators were not denounced by
their accomplices.” Dijon was fined 10,000,000
francs. How many hostages faced firing squads
was never revealed officially. Reports from re-
liable quarters, however, indicated that at least
40, most of them from concentration camps,
were executed. Today it was officially announced
that, “a thorough investigation having proved
the local population had nothing to do with
the crime,” the occupying authority had re-
turned the 10,000,000-franc fine, but the hos-
tages remained buried in a common grave.—
Switzerland correspondent, N.Y. “Times.’''
* * * *
American aircraft builders turned out more
’planes in the first year of the present war than
they built in all the 23 peace-time years follow-
ing the first World War. On the more signifi-
cant tonnage basis, production was nearly three
times as great as in the 23-year period.— U.S.
Aeronautical Chamber of Commerce statement.
“You heard it said that British
support of Russia has been half-
hearted. The truth is that im-
mediately after the attack on
Russia Britain promised to send
a great supply of war materials
and that promise has been
loyally carried out. Just as,
after Dunkirk, we sent tanks,
guns, and ’planes to the Middle
East, so in 1941 and 1942 we
sent to Russia those supplies we
knew we should require in the
Middle and Far East. Hong
Kong, Singapore, Burma and
Tobruk give the measure of our
own need. We risked them and
we lost them, but we kept faith
with our Russian allies. We
sent supplies we could ill spare,
in freighters we could ill spare,
guarded by warships we could ill
spare. Every convoy was a
major naval operation; and, in
spite of the inevitable losses, the
bulk of what we sent got
through. When I think of the
men who faced the rigors of
those journeys, with all their
perils from bomber and sub-
marine and Arctic ice, who
toiled and froze, or were blasted
and drowned, to bring the con-
voys through, I am not con-
cerned to apologise for what the
British have tried to do to help
Russia.” —Lord Halifax.
sfc J[c
Flying Fortresses, the biggest,
toughest fighting ’planes the U.S.
Army or any other army pos-
sesses today, are now being
made by a labor force that is
50 per cent, women, and by the end of next
year officials at the Boeing plants in Seattle and
Renton, Wash., say the labor force will be 70
per cent, women. —Washington correspondent,
N.Y. “World-Telegram.’'’
* * * *
“Air transport from India to China, convey-
ing supplies to Chungking, is moving larger
quantities of freight than did the 4550 trucks
on the Burma Road.” — Col. E. S. Evans, presi-
dent Evans Products, U.S.A.
* * * *
“The African offensive was launched in lieu
of a big-scale offensive in western Europe, since
there were not enough men, material and
transportation available to give a European
operation a reasonable chance of success in
1942.” —President Roosevelt.
* * * *
“We have a few mental cases,” said Lt.-
Comdr. Joseph A. Bowen [U.S. doctor on
Gaudalcanal], “Most of them have only a
mild war neurosis that I am sure will wear
away quickly. Most of them probably will get
back into action. The percentage of such cases
is less than two, and, although I don’t have
the figures here, I know that is far below what
we had during the World War 25 years ago.
The wounded man today has many times the
chances for a complete recovery of the wounded
of any other war in which Americans have
fought. The high ratio of recoveries can be
ascribed, first, to the rapidity of transportation
out of the combat area; second, the use of the
sulfa drugs in preventing infection and promot-
Chicago “Daily News.”
TO EGYPT—AND BACK.
ing healing; and third, adequate hospital facili-
ties within a few hours of the front lines.” —
N.Y. “Times” war correspondent.
* * *
Inflation marches on. Farm prices have
jumped 75 p.c. since war began in Europe.
Food prices are up more than 50 p.c. Textile
prices are up 45 p.c., fuel and lighting costs
10 p.c., household furnishing prices 20 p.c.,
chemical and drug prices 33 p.c. and metal
prices 10 p.c. Inflation is here. Can de-
flation be far behind? — “Wall-street Journal:”
* * * *
The American army drinks beer and whisky
conservatively and is the best-behaved army
in history, the Office of War Information states
in a report on drinking conditions in and
around training camps and posts. “The Ameri-
can soldier needs neither curtain lecture nor
apology,” the report says. “He behaves well-
he trains well, and in the far-flung places
of the earth he is fighting well.” Not only
is the American army more orderly than any
other army, but it also drinks vastly less than
the American army of 1917, owing mainly to
the “healthy and sensible arrangement” of
serving 3.2 p.c. beer in camps. Soda pop still
is the most popular army drink. —United Press.
» * * *
Its first year of war cost the United States
more than $46,000,000,000 —more than the
entire cost of participation in the world conflict
of 25 years ago. Staggering as this sum
appears, it is dwarfed by the latest Budget esti-
mates of war expenditures for the 1943 fiscal
year. Budget officials expect these expendi-
tures to amount to $78,000,000,000. — U.S.
Associated Press.
*** • *
It is difficult to evaluate the military qualities
of the French troops in North Africa which
may become a part of the fighting forces of the
United Nations. These troops have had a long
period of almost complete inaction under sadly
dispiriting conditions. For two and a half years
they have seen no active service and have
lived mostly in barracks in the larger towns.
They have felt all the humiliation of defeat
without having had a chance to meet the
enemy face to face. They have had to endure
the presence in North Africa of the German
and Italian Armistice Commissions. They have
been poorly equipped and have lacked ammuni-
tion and motor fuel even for manoeuvres.
Among the officers there has been a good deal
of weeding out for political purposes. Some of
the best officers have been detached from their
units. There has been little opportunity for
training or higher military education, and there
has been grave uncertainty about the future.
Probably the greatest task facing us in connec-
tion with this French army is in the field of
morale. It will be essential to re-create in
these troops that soldierly spirit—the will to
win—which is the heart and soul of every army
and of every military unit that is worth its
salt. —Major George Fielding Eliot.
* =K * *
The time for the Jap attack at Pearl Harbor
—7.55 a.m. on Dec. 7, 1941 —was carefully
chosen. (1) No manoeuvres were scheduled for
Dec. 7, so the bulk of the fleet would be at
anchor inside the harbor. (2) At a naval base
a larger percentage of personnel is given shore
liberty, therefore not immediately available to
defend the ships. (3) Dec. 7 was a Sunday
and many American sailors go ashore to
worship, further depleting the ranks. (4) At
8 a.m. gun and deck watches change, so that
at 7.55 sailors are leaving their posts as new
men come on. — N.Y. “Sunday Mirror.”
sp * sp #
Did you ever see an 8000-pound bomb or
the even more common type a half or quarter
that size? The bare sight of these monsters
is awe-inspiring. Their detonations and destruc-
tion are terrifying. No wonder that survivors
in cities which have been virtually wiped out
are utterly stunned. They pass the word to
other parts of Germany and uneasiness and
fear are spreading.— N.Y. “Sun” London corre-
spondent.


Missing Friends.
WILLIAM FREDERICK BENNETT, formerly
of Budgerum, in Victoria, Farmer. Son of
WILLIAM and MARGARET MADELINE
BENNETT. Would the abovenamed (who is
entitled to share in the estate of his mother,
the abovenamed Margaret Madeline Bennett,
now deceased, if he makes claim thereunder
prior to the Third day of August, 1943), or
anyone knowing his whereabouts, please com-
municate with MESSRS. CLARKE & GAVAN
DUFFY, Solicitors, of 52 Lydiard Street, Bal-
larat, Victoria?
or ame< * Eyes and Eyelids
SOLD EVERYWHERE
A_B°gg &■ Co. Rty. Ltd.. King St., Sydney
■ y J000000000000000<>c>0000000^00»>0'>v w,^^ v *^^*'**^***
mmm
; x';.-.
::: ' "■■' ,'
fm&m
GIN
MOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOO
” tI
m
■
Hi
-
HU
mm
i
K-'’
I
Z-Z-Z-
-i 3
»
'
■
§ i m
as
that’s the way a DISSTON SOLID TOOTH
CIRCULAR saw rips and cuts into a job—
an ever-hungry blade of steel, with keen teeth,
biting into the wood like a knife into butter.
Disston Solid Tooth Circular Saws are made
of Disston Steel under exacting laboratory
control by steel experts. Every Disston Circu-
lar Saw is hardened throughout; hardened
to withstand wear and resist strain. They last
longer between sharpenings, take swage or
spring, set easily and retain set longer than
any other saws. There are many styles and
patterns for cross-cutting, ripping or combin-
ation work, also a variety of tooth styles made
for specific jobs, specific woods and conditions.
Diameters, 4in. to 78in.
For full information, see your dealer or write to:
HENRY DISSTON & SONS, PTY. LTD.
VINE STREET, REDFERN, SYDNEY, N.S.W.
Telegrams: DISSTON, SYDNEY ; BOX 47, CHIPPENDALE P.O.
Service Department.
Information Sought.
Origin of the word “station in regaid to
large property holdings in Australia? .
First mention of the word is contained m
accounts of the settlements sponsored by tne
Australian Agricultural Company in 1832, wnen
“the poorer part of the land at Port Stephens
selected by ihe company officials was exchanged
for two fine stations (about 600,000 acres m
all) afterwards known as Warrah and Goonoo
Goonoo, the one behind Quirindi and the otner
facing Tamworth across the Peel River. Ihe
use of the term station seems to have become
general shortly afterwards.
* * * *
At the base of some large ferns and palms in
the lawn grass and flowers will not grow; can
you recommend an evergreen plant to fill up
the bare space? ,
The common ivy, a bright evergreen and
strong-growing plant, is suitable. It is particu-
larly hardy and needs little attention. Make
a heap of stone or old bricks or mortar, and
in cavities filled with sandy loam place cut-
tings. Water regularly until rooting takes place.
Some of the runners can be trailed around the
ferns and palms. Occasional dusting with lime
or laying baits of arsenate of lead is necessary to
stop the place being a refuge for snails and
slugs.
* * * *
My nine-year-old cattle-dog suffers from
canker in the ears. Is there any remedy ?
Use oxide of zinc ointment two drachms,
almond oil loz. Apply with a camel-hair brush
two or three times a day to all the red parts and
as far into the canal as it will go. Clean out
each 24 hours with almond oil on a cotton-wool
swab tightly twisted round the end of a bodkin
or manicure stick, and repeat daily.
* * * *
What is the correct diet for a small kelpie
over 12 months old?
The kelpie needs to be fed only once daily,
preferably at night. The diet should be mainly
raw beef, to which add a little broken whole-
meal dog biscuit, crushed, and a little scraped
raw carrot. The best drink is water. A large
shin or rib bone once or twice weekly helps
to supply calcium and acts as a toothbrush.
* * * *
Recipe for billsticker’s paste?
Heat one quart of water, stir in 3oz. of alum
till dissolved (do not boil), then add flour slowly
till mixture has a creamy consistency; finally,
bring to boil, stirring well till thick. If a
little oil of cloves and resin is stirred in just
before the mixture boils this paste will keep well.
* * * *
How to remove spots from furniture caused
by moisture from a vase ?
Pour into a quart bottle half-cup each of
limewater and raw linseed oil, shake till
thoroughly mixed, then add half-cup of pure
turpentine and shake again. Apply liberally
to spots on furniture with cotton wool, with
the grain in the wood, and then wipe off with a
clean rag. Make a pad free from creases,
sprinkle methylated spirit till moist (not wet)
and with this give the surface a smart, brisk
polishing, pressing a little as the spirit evapo-
rates. Finish off with a fluffless rag pad.
Furniture polish may then be applied but
shouldn’t be necessary.
* * * *
Are many leading American and English
boxers serving with the Allied forces ?
Practically every present and recent English
champion is in the British army or navy. The
same situation applies in U.S.A., where serving
under the Stars and Stripes are former world
champion heavyweights Jack Dempsey, Gene
Tunney and Jimmy Braddock; light-heavy-
weight Billy Conn; middleweights Ken Overlin,
A 1 Hostak, Billy Soose and Fred Apostoli;
welterweights Barney Ross and lightweight Lou
Ambers. Present American world champions
in uniform are heavyweight Joe Louis, light-
heavyweight Gus Lesnevich, middleweight Tony
Zale and welterweight Freddie “Red” Cochrane.
% * * *
(1) Where and when was Primo Camera
born ? (2) His height and weight ? (3) From
whom did he win the world’s heavyweight
championship and to whom did he lose the
title? (4) When did he have his last fight?
(1) At Sequals, Italy, on October 28, 1906.
(2) Weight, 19st. 121 b.; height, 6ft. 7in. (3)
Won title from Jack Sharkey; lost it to Max
Baer. (4) At Budapest on December 4, 1937,
when Josef Zupan stopped him in the second
round.
* * * *
(1) Result of the five Test matches between
the touring Australian Rugby Union team
and South Africa in 1933 ? (2) blames of the
manager and the captains in the Tests?
(1) First Test, South Africa won 17-3 ; second
Test, Australia won 21-6; third Test, S. Africa
won 12-3; fourth Test, S. Africa won 11-0;
fifth Test, Australia won 15-4. (2) Dr. W. F.
Matthews was manager. A. W. Ross was
appointed captain of the team, but after the
fifth game he was operated on for appendicitis
and dropped out temporarily; S. Malcolm (vice-
captain) also had to stand down through injuries.
The captains in the Tests were D. Cowper, of
Victoria (first, second and third), Malcolm
(fourth) and Ross (fifth).
Brief Answers.
D.A.: Ingredients are unprocurable at
present... .G.E.H.: Places like Darwin, Wynd-
ham and Townsville in the tropics but south
of the Equator have only one longest day,
which falls about December 22 each year....
Wings: Army regulations prohibit the use ot
the A.F.C. wings. The regulation is general,
not local A.W.R.: Send particulars to the
Maritime Services Board, Circular Quay, Syd-
ney, and information required will be for-
warded to you... .H.H.: There is only one
adjutant-general in the Australian Army.
Address, Major-General V. P. H. Stanke, De-
partment of the Army, Victoria Barracks, Mel-
bourne 18 Years; He is entitled only to
wear the British War Medal, referred to in Aus-
tralia as the General Service Medal.... A.8.C.:
A N.S.W. taxpayer who contributes to the
support of his mother is entitled to no con-
cessional rebate unless she is wholly dependent
on him. If the mother is in receipt of a
widow’s pension, taxpayer is precluded from
claiming any allowance.
Answers to Correspondents
Name and address mvst appear on the MS. Ao
liability is undertaken re contributions voluntarily
submitted; and no US. will be returned unless
stamps accompany. MS. should be addressed to
the Editor.
The Muse aroused:
FF :
In their fight for their homes and their loved ones
Militiamen sweated and toiled;
’Twas a fight for Australia’s freedom
—But their future adventures are foiled.
H.W.; —
Away with all who would our morals guide,
nictating books allowed and books denied 1
With all who dare our consciences to bend,
Kot letting us on comnionsense depend,
To those an end!
T.W,: “Come here, my lad, and sit on
my knee, and I’ll tell you another story.”
Fair dinkum, Dad, we’d sooner go fishing....
G. : Not quite such a fury of alliteration,
please J.F.: Incoherent VJ.S.: “Ah,
could I be with thee!” Thou wouldst have a
better chance if thou wrotest as thou speakest.
E.B.: For all rhymed or “topical” alpha-
bets the basket gapes and the flames leap....
Maybe it’d make a song, but it hardly
begins to be a poem... .E.H.: Indistinguishable
from any other poem about daybreak....
N.F.H.: Both thinnish D.G.; Lightweights.
....B.B.: Miles away... .M.C.: Idea all right,
but it fades to nothing... .8.H.: You should
unload it elsewhere... .R.B.McD.: The cham-
pagne is without any kick... .M.G.A.: Try
that one elsewhere, and us with some others....
H. ; Dull and depressing. .. .D.A.: No more
than a par F.W.L.; N0....K.8.: Of its
kind very good, but not our kind... . 1.R.C.:
Much too far away.
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC)
CORRESPONDENTS.
L.D.; Lady with swelled head, goitre and
elephantiasis isn’t saying anything funny to
the swaggie floating at an acute angle near
the top Of the kitchen d00r.... R.K.M.:
Apparently you find it impossible to break
from the Hebraic-Aberdonian school of jests.


A
\T
vom mNS
n QBlt M
s
Illustrating
the LUDOWICI
PIVOT DRIVE
LUDOWICIS
have the answer
BEHIND the fine quality and the assurance of maximum efficiency in
Ludowici Power Transmission Equipment, stand Ludowici Technicians
—men whose knowledge and experience of every power transmission re-
quirement enable them to give a ready answer to your particular problem.
Our reputation has been built on our willingness to give an unbiassed
opinion and to recommend and supply the most suitable equipment for
each power transmission application.
You have only to ask for our advice to have it freely given.
J. C. LUDOWICI & SON LTD.
117 YORK STREET, SYDNEY
leather
belting
•
PULLEYa
COUPLINGS
SHAF T I N G
GEARS & HANGERS
★ 4
LUDOWICIS
vnuym
TRANSMISSION
EQUIPMENT
Gordons
Gin
TANQUERAY GORDON £ CO. LTD.
LONDON GIN DISTILLERS
LONDON ENGLAND
The WILD
CAT
COLUMN
Bond’s Industries, Ltd. (Sydney)
To Re-
Dec., Loss.t Dividends. serves. Deficit.f
£ £ £ £
1933.. 176,830 Nil 176,734
From inner reserves, £31,018 .. .. 145,716
1934.. 31,378 Nil 177,094
Forfeited shares, £l3B 176,956
Surplus debenture interest, etc., £4615.. 172,341
Profit, t
1935.. 5,878 Nil 5,878 166,463
1936.. 11,559 Nil 11,559 154,904
1937.. 7,381 Nil 7,381 147,523
Surplus cancellation debentures, £1954.. 145,569
Debenture interest written back, £1236.. 144,333
1938.. 14,473 Nil 14.473 129,860
Surplus cancellation debentures, £2245.. 127,615
1939.. 36,647 Nil 1 22,647 104,968
Prov. stock fluctuation, £14,000 j
Reserves.
Capital reserve taken in, £166,167 .. 61,199
Forfeited shares, £3l . . . . .. 61,230
Assets adjustment, £3042 .. .. 58,188
Debenture interest arrears, £42,816 .. 15,372
1940. . 67,822 10 p.c. =13,034 ), 9 78S rR
Prov. stock fluctuation, £ 12,000 j
Forfeited shares reduction, £ll5 .. 58,045
June,
1941§. 36,814 10 P.e. = 6,519 j 23 2g5 81,340
Prov. stock fluctuation, £ 1 000 j
War-time (Co.) Tax year to June,
1940 £45,283 36,057
1942.. 49,062 9 p.c. =20,713 28,349 64,406
f Excluding capital reserve ( £166,167) till 31/12/’39.
+ After paying debenture interest, etc. § Six months.
Earnings aren’t quite so good as the last
few lines of the table suggest, because
no specific allowance has been made
for War-time (Co.) Tax. Still, it has
been a good recovery, due largely to ex-
panding turnover following Government
demand for cotton knitwear, woollen
hose and other of the co.’s products for
the fighting and ancillary services, in-
cluding those of our Allies. The result
shows up in the latest accounts more in
the financial set-up than in earning
power, which has been held in check by
rising costs and taxation on the one hand
and by price control and low defence
margins on the other. Initiating revival
was the organised assault upon costs by
renewals and improvements to the chief
earning asset (plant) and by puttying up
outlets on the manufacturing and selling
side of the organisation. From the long-
term view the results of all this, which
began before the war, are obscure.
To facilitate introduction of fresh
capital and resumption of divs.—after an
eight-year drought—the accounts were
tidied up a couple of years back. A
p. and 1. debit of £105,107 was written
off against a capital reserve of £166,167
created in respect of freeholds when the
present co. took over, arrears of deben-
ture interest (£42,816) were paid, the book
value of fixed assets was reduced £33,766
below independent valuation, Treasury
approval was obtained for a £lOO,OOO
share-issue at par, and a 10 p.c. div. was
handed out. But the debenture debt of
£512,000 still remained. The awkward
character of this liability has been
changed since the close of the latest
accounts by holders of four-fifths of the
entire issue consenting to convert into
pound shares on the basis of 100 6 p.c.
prefs., or 80 prefs. and 20 ords., for each
£lOO debenture. The remaining £lOO,OOO
of debentures is to be “discharged as
soon as possible.”
That will lift share capital to £633,000-
odd, subject to further debenture con-
versions. An all-round 6 p.c. on £633,000
would call for roughly £38,000, or
£ll,OOO less profit than was claimed last
term. This profit (£49,062) was written
after allowing for debenture interest at
£5 Bs. 6d. p.c. ( = £27,776), setting aside
£37,366 for depreciation, and making an
unspecified provision for income tax.
No specific allowance was made for War-
time (Co.) Tax, but the directors be-
lieve that the existing provision for
taxation (£45,612), together with the
p. and 1. balance (£57,248), will be
enough to meet demands for the three
years to June 30, 1942, plus the final div.
of £9315. Although the debenture con-
version will reduce the amount of War-
time (Co.) Tax to be paid, this will be
partly offset by the deduction previously
allowed on account of debenture interest,
and costs will be difficult to restrain.
Also, the co. has appealed to the Privy
Council against a decision of the High
Court in respect of certain patent rights,
and that is likely to add a few thousand
pounds to exes. It is doubtful, therefore,
whether last year’s 9 p.c. div. is likely
to be maintained.
Here are balance-sheet figures:
Dee.— N c June —
1937. 1940. 1941. 1942.
Paid capital.. £102,806 £130,275 £217,769 £233,844
Debentures* . . 525,206 558,229 516,629 516,629
Mortgage . . 93,771 76,715 76,705 76,705
Overdraft . . 87,072 155,499 190,120 98,414
Sundry creditors 16,696 118,417 112,791 75,912
Freehold . . 322.150 275,633 274,850 272,583
Plant . . 192,033 270,495 268,022 276,865
Shocks . . 227,833 393,606 480,258 383,365
Book debts . . 98,168 164,568 187,703 129,838
Cash, etc. . . 4,010 6,027 4,071 12,072
* Including accrued interest.
Although last term’s sales were a record,
there was a contraction of £96,893 in
stocks and £57,865 in debtors’ balances,
owing to shrinkage in civilian turnover.
Most of the money was applied to reduc-
tion of the debt. Still, tax payments left
the more or less liquid surplus (£274,244)
£18,172 lighter than at the previous bal-
ance, excluding debentures. In this class
of business, much depends upon the effi-
ciency of plant.
Australian Cement, Ltd.
To Re-
Nov., Profit. Dividends. Reserves, serves,
£ £ £ £
1932.. 7,665 4 p.c. = 30,412 291,461
1933.. 38,111 5 „ „ 38,016 95 291,556
1934.. 43,411 5i ~ „ 41,821 1,590 293,146
1935.. 80,286 10 ~ „ 7*6,043 4,243 297,389
Profit on sale assets, £1426.. •• 298,815
.6936. . 84,984 10 p.c.= 76,043 8,941 307,756
1937.. 83,845 10 „ „ 76,043 7,802 315,558
Reserves disappear, £11,150.. .. 304.408
1938.. 99,109 124 p.c. = 95,054 4.055 308,463
1939.. 98,753 124 „ „ 95,054 3,699 312,162
1940.. 97,359 124 „ „ 95,054 2,305 314,407
1941.. 96,076 12| „ 95,054 1,022 315,489
1942.. 95,431 Hi „ „ 85,549 9,882 325,371
So far as the statistics available indi-
cate, the call on Australian cement pro-
ducers reached stability in 1938. But
the spread of production hasn’t been
uniform, as this rough comparison with
N.S.W. experience demonstrates:
Australia, N.S.W.,
Tons.* Tons.f
1932.. 247,396
1933.. 320,910 177,720
1934.. 410,343 224,350
1935.. 550,131 292,854
1936.. 645,234 299,836
*Year to June.
Australia, N.S.W.,
Tons.* Tons.f
1937.. 720,093 423,163
1938.. 851,914 460,727
1939.. 867,849 403,421
1940. . 864,917 375,668
1941.. 860,002 380,000
Year to December.
Features not mirrored there are (1) the
war-time change in the nature of demand
to almost entirely Government account,
and (2) the reduction in selling prices
internal economies have produced. In
the past 20 years there have been 14 cuts
in the price to the Victorian consumer,
including war revisions.
This Melbourne holding co. is inter-
ested in both the Victorian and N.S.W-
markets through its million-pound share-
holding in Australian Portland Cement
Pty. (paid capital, £2,000,000); the
other half-partner is Kandos, N.S.W.
(paid capital, £673,862), the working
co. being the product of a merger of
manufacturing interests in 1930. Com-
bined works capacity is 500,000 tons.
The 300,000 tons to which the effi-
cient Fyansford (Vic.) unit, now produc-
ing important potash salts as a by-pro-
duct, was lifted before war is “prob-
ably more than will be required for some
years,” despite the fact that the only
competition—and precious little of that
these days-—comes from low-cost Goliath
(Tas.); similarly, Kandos capacity of
200,000 tons has never been reached, four
rivals with an aggregate nominal poten-
tial of half a million or more tons being
the snag here. One (Standard) shut down
in October as a rationalisation measure ;
another is to follow suit, and either
Kandos or the Portland plant of Com-
monwealth Cement has been mentioned.
No financial loss is necessarily involved ;
those who stay in will compensate those
who temporarily go out.
Still, the cut in A.C.’s div.—the final
was at the rate of 10 p.c. p.a. —is portent
of reduced earnings to come. Defence
demands in Victoria have become “less
imperative,” transport is no easier, and
the disturbing increment in wage, coal,
paper-bag, oil and other costs continues.
Last term the operating venture main-
tained its rate around 9 p.c. or so, and
with £12,040 earned principally in com-
missions, etc., as managing agent profits
of £95,431 (down £648) are shown in this
holding venture’s statement. That would
have just sufficed to repeat the previous
four years’ \2\ p.c.; instead, the rate was
reduced to \\\ p.c.
Published finances are healthy:
1938. 1940. 1941. 1942.
Paid capital. . £760,433 £760,433 £760,433 £760,433
Sundry creditors 2,265* 76 76 328
Shares in other
cos. . . 1,003,750 1,003,750 1,003,750 1,003,750
Book debts . . 1,222 110 110 110
Consols & cash 123,221 122,886 124,664 126,945
* Includes tax provision.
It is the proprietary’s figures which are
the most interesting, of course, and these
are zealously guarded. Though curious,
investors, like the “Wild Cat,” aren t
worrying.
Because of the range of ancillary in-
dustry thereby set in motion, housing
and other building projects are likely to
be prominent in the reconstruction
period ; so the switch from war to peace
should be smooth. It will be aided by
new uses for cement, a revolutionary
overseas development being the use of
reinforced, precast concrete members and
slabs for structural work large and small.
Newbold General Refractories (N.S.W.)
Year Net To Re- To Re-
June, Profit. Dividends. serves, serves.
£ £ £ £
1932.. 2,603 2i p.c. = 2,550 53 5,685
1933.. 6,149 5 „ „ 5,100 1,049 6,734
1934.. 12,304 8 ~ „ 9,874 2,430 9,164
1935.. 17,766 10 „ ~ 14,140 3,626 12,790
1936.. 18,425 10 „ „ 16,672 1,753 14,543
1937.. 24,892 10 ~ „ 21,259 3,633 18,176
1938.. 31,814 10 ~ „ 25,228 6,586 24,762
1939.. 30,054 10 „ ~ 25,228 4,826 29,588
1940.. 20,215 74 „ „ 19,822 39'3 29,981
1941.. 24,020 6 „ „ 19,462 4,558 34,539
1942.. 20,830 6 „ „ 19,462 1,368 35,907
The £108,121 (one for three) of new
capital now being sought is to pay for
past, not prospective, expansion, which
of recent years has been financed by way
of overdraft. While finances will thereby
be restored to their former easy state,
reserves of £35,907 will be left with the
task of supporting a share-register of
£432,486. On this enlarged figure, last
year’s earnings represent 4.8 p.c.; so, fail-
ing overdue revision of selling prices, sav-
ings other than bank interest may have
to be looked for if the present 6 p.c. div.
is to be maintained, despite expanded
production.
The new issue tallies with past policy
of paying for extensions from capital and
distributing most of the trade takings as
earned. One result has been that reserves
have been over 20 years attaining present
dimensions. After reconstruction and a
£30,000 gift-giving in 1920, capital re-
mained at £90,000 till the early ’thirties.
Then Ulladulla Silica and Vulcan Refrac-
tories were acquired for £33,500 in scrip.
Successive approaches to shareholders
since have raked in £200,865 at par, the
last £72,080 coming along in 1940, and
the name was changed from Newbold
Silica Fire-brick to the present title in
cognisance of the wider scope of acti-
vities. While profits responded to the
board’s enterprise, so did the div. charge.
Today, apart from standard lines,
the co. is the sole Australian source of
many high - grade refractories, steel-,
gas- and glassmakers being the really big
customers. War-time reversal in New-
bold’s figures, despite feverish defence
activities, has been due to the big lifts
in tax, raw-material and other costs. Last
term all plants, including the basic-brick
unit which went into production late the
previous term, were “fully occupied.
Aggravation of cost factors, on the other
hand, reduced profits from 7.4 p.c. to
6.4 p.c. on capital, a margin over the
6 p.c. div. of £1368.
During the year gross capitalised ex-
penditure on fixed assets was £35,793,
the board went to its bankers to make the
outlay and add £34,050 to stocks:
1933. 1937. 1911. 1942.
Paid capital. . £102,000 £247,059 £324,365 £324,36a
Sundry creditors 7,543 10,952 70,632 130,76 a
Tax reserve . . 1,650 6,000 11,000 16,
Fixed assets.. 99,822 210,065 324,338 349,680
Stocks .. H,170 56,628 84,824 118,874
Debtors . . 11,930 26,109 42,522 49,630
Cash . . . . 105 764 205 _ 200
The earning assets are reported in effi-
cient working order. Adequacy of the
£10,451 (up £668) struck off for depre-
ciation during the year is obscured by
the lumping of plant with buildings, etc.,
much depends on what was first spent on
maintenance out of revenue.
Richards Industries, Ltd.
. Dividends , To Re-
June, Profit. Pref. Ord. Total, serves. Deficit.
£££ £ _
1933.. 458 Nil Nil Nil 458 7,807
1934.. 2,241 Nil Nil Nil 2 ’? 4l Res £’ v ° es .
1935.. 25,634 Nil Nil Nil 25,634 20,068
1936.. 99,879 50 p.c. 10 p.c. 29,969 69,910 89,978
1937.. 45,106 10 „ 15 „ l - 26,972 116,900
1938.. 41,767 10 „ 10 „ 23,187 18,580 130,530
1939.. 32,295 10 „ 10 „ 25,635 6 > 660 442 ’ 4 -
1940.. 9,174 8 „ 8 „ 20,508 130,856
1941.. 11,057 8 „ 5 ~ 14,050
1942.. 20,532 8 ~ 7 ~ 18,357 2,175 130,483
As T. J. Richards, the co. was a well-
known factor in peace-time transpoita-
tion; as Richards Industries, the two


INVENTORS. —Have yon an idea worth patenting?
Griffith, Hassel and Griffith, Patent Attorneys,
Asbestos House, Cr. York and Barrack Streets, Sydney,
obtain Commonwealth and foreign patents.— Advt.
* * *
Hydraulic Power, Electric and Hydraulic Lifts,
Limited (incorporated by Act of Parliament 1888),
hydraulic, electric and general engineers, lift
specialists. Maintenance and repairs of all classes of
lifts and other machinery. Colonial Mutual Life
Building, 14 Martin Place, Sydney.— Advt.
jH * * *
DAVIES & COLLI SON, Patent Attorneys, Collins
House, 360 Collins Street, Melbourne, 0.1. Austra-
lian and overseas Patents and Trade Marks.—Anvr.
GF
Try the new Eoussel Rupture Appliance Free.
Enables you to do the hardest work with com-
fort and security. Definitely holds, a condition
absolutely necessary for possible improvement
or recovery. Recommended by Doctors every-
where. Satisfaction guaranteed no matter
where you live. Send for details, self measure-
ment form, testimonials and 14 days’ free trial
offer. No obligation.
THE ROUSSEL. API’UTAJVOE CO.,
DEPT. 27. 84 PITT ST.. SYDNEY.
DOAN’S
BACKACHE
KIDNEY PILLS
Used successfully for backache and
kidney troubles the world over by
millions of people.
If you suffer from Backache and
Kidney Trouble take a course of
DOAN’S PILLS at once. They will soon
make you well.
SOLD BY ALL CHEMISTS
AND STOREKEEPERS.
Foster-McClellan Co.,
Proprietors,
15 Hamilton St., Sydney.
WE ARE SPECIALISTS
IN
COWBOY SADDLERY
GF
£l5/17/3
DOUBLE RIGGED.
March Delivery.
Three-quarter rigged, with one cord
cincha, 15/- less. This is a very
popular line, quite equal to saddles of
the same class made in U.S.A. It is
made of brown leather, without fancy
stamping, and the seat and cantle are
in one piece of heavy leather.
Weight, about 281 b.
N.S.W. Freight on Saddles Paid for Cash with
Order .
COWBOY BITS, SPURS, BRIDLES,
CHAPARAJOS, TAPADEROS, ETC.
j II
INTEGRITY and SECURITY
Essential in an agent or a trustee.
WHEN you appoint an Executor and Trustee under your Will or an Agent
under Power of Attorney to manage your affairs, you should satisfy
yourself as to his integrity and that he has a background of experience in
handling Estates. You will be wise also to assure yourself that your Estate
will be secure in his hands. By appointing Perpetual Trustee Company Limited
you can safeguard yourself on both points. In the management of Estates
it brings to bear the judgment gained in 57 years' experience. Unlike most
individuals, it has and discloses large capital and reserve funds ensuring
financial stability and responsibility.
Send for a copy of “Your Executor and Trustee,” which explains the Company’s
service and sets out the financial security ottered, comprising its own assets
and uncalled Capital exceeding £1,250,000.
PERPETUAL TRUSTEE COMPANY, LIMITED
DIRECTORS: T. H. Kelly (Chairman); Hon. T. A. J. Playfair, M.L.0.; E. R. Knox;
H. Norman Pope; Allen C. Lewis; W. Deuchar Gordon.
H. V. Douglass, Managing Director. P. Cureton, Manager.
Executor and Trustee, Agent under Power of Attorney for Absentees and others,
Aaministrator. etc.
Trust and Agency Funds under Administration exceed £60,000,000.
33-39 HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY.
Southern and Riverina District Representative: C. E. Cowdery, Gurwood Street, Wagga Wagga.
Western District Representative: H. A, Shaw, 140 Lord’s Place, Orange.
m
p i
-
m
m
m
m
m
z i TlcS^*
dums
(Haiiire
fnquuM/imq
@o*i Okhfuj.
Normal overseas trading has long ceased, but our factories
and research departments are busier than ever Engineers,
Craftsmen, Management—all are working to capacity-
backing up our gallant fighting men— producing faster and
faster, weapons of the highest standards—essential for Victory.
Although Motor manufacture is a highly specialised industry
invaluable experience has been gained from wartime pro-
duction—this will be of the utmost benefit to motorists when
shipments of motor chassis once more flow freely from
England to Australia
Resident Representative: C. H. Hordern, 472 Bourke Street, Melbourne.
MANUFACTURERS OF
CARS:
Humber ♦ Hillman ♦ Sunbeam-Talbot
' COMMERCIAL VEHICLES:
Commer * Karrier
Adelaide works now constitute a major
unit on the economic battlefront. A
“suitable” defence job has been found
for every department previously engaged
in motor-body building, and expansion
of engineering facilities has brought an
increasing flow of aircraft and a.-t. gun
parts, other munitions and machine tools,
not forgetting wagons to transport them,
from production lines. To maximise the
co.’s effort, £lOO,OOO of 6 p.c. second
pref. capital was recently sought and
obtained. The high precision work now
being done is building up useful technical
experience, and the fact that present re-
organisation and expansion have been
planned with an eye to peace-time func-
tions should minimise the scrapping of
plant that may later become redundant.
The striking recovery and subsequent
decline in Richards’s earnings over the
past decade aren’t quite parallel with the
experience of the industry as a whole,
which was apparently well occupied till
June, 1941, at least:
Year Bodies Bodies
June, Imported. Made.
1932.. 61 6,323
1933.. 108 13,352
1934.. 1116 26.302
1935.. 2215 45,445
1936.. 1699 67,337
Year Bpdies Bodies
June, Imported. Made.
1937.. 786 77.198
1938.. 646 92.245
1939.. 532 79,436
1940.. 345 71,487
1941.. 50 49,130
in Richards’s case, “almost complete
cessation” of normal activity set in a year
before that, following restrictions on im-
ports of motor chassis, fuel-rationing and
conservation of dollar exchange —circum-
stances which made overhead a millstone.
Capital is predominantly Australian;
but control is now vested in Chrysler-
Dodge Distributors (A.ust.) Pty., which
took up 150,000 10s. B ords. in 1937, and
familiar names have since disappeared
from the directorate. Last term war
orders, mostly on a target-price basis,
pushed turnover for the first time above
£lf millions. Still, profit was no more
than £20,532 after providing for the tax-
gatherer’s big whack (£27,500, up £17,816).
That was enough to meet the charge on
the 41,260 8 p.c. prefs.—they participate
with the ords. up to 10 p.c. —and leave
8 p.c., against 3.6 p.c., for the ords.;
these participated in the better perform-
ance to the extent of 7 p.c.
Depreciation isn’t specified, but the
working assets are regularly reported effi-
ciently maintained, and war expansion
has been accomplished without book
values getting a spread on:
1936. 1939. 1941. 1942.
Paid capital. . £134,650 £256,345 £256,345 £256,345
Liabilities .. 115,350 83,599 73,188 102,717
Tax reserve . . 7,871 8,319 27,500
Land and bldgs. 85,063 114,488 111,700 95,780
Plant, etc. . . 62,352 119,123 117,264 113,831
Stock, etc. .. 145,535 212,355 221,861 212,246
Debtors . . 25,910 56,309 20,285 95,967
Cash, etc. .. 29,196 547 7,450 10,550
The growth of £75,682 in debtors reflects
the record turnover; stock and work in
process is a valuation figure, and with
debtors should be protected considering
the present nature of demand.
Austral N.Z. Mining, the Maoriland
gold float of Austral Malay Tin, slipped
badly in the year to October, previous
term’s profit of £37,820 turning into a
loss of £3730 after adding £7655 to re-
newals reserve but before depreciating
the dredge. The plant handled 3,267,000
c.y. for 68020 z. fine ; recovery of 1.05 gr.
represented only half bored value of the
ground dug and compares with an esti-
mated 3gr. (at least 85 p.c. recoverable)
in the 28,000,000 c.y. originally proved.
Probably “not less than 100,000,000 c.y.”
of profitable wash was expected to be
available in all. The official explanation
is that gold at the bottom has been proved
to occur in narrow gutters and pockets,
and that the bores covering the particular
area treated apparently bottomed on an
undue proportion of these enrichments,
thus giving an exaggerated average for
the ground between. “It would not be
unreasonable to expect that, in other
parts of the property, bores have under-
valued the ground,” chairman Freeman is
moved to declare. Some check-boring
appears indicated. There is £97,800 of
debt in front of returns on capital, which
is in 210,000 pound ords. and 35,000
shilling deferreds ranking with the ords.
for divs. on a share, not paid-up, basis.
* * * »
Chock-full of enthusiasm, Westralian
Minister for Industrial Development
Hawke is backing mineral production to
play an important role in post-war recon-
struction over there. Various panels are
already operating, and claim to have
done good work. The alunite one glee-
fully points to early production of potash
and to a hydrochloric-acid process it has
developed. The Lon-and-steel panel has
been investigating sources for the pro-
duction of iron ore, fuels and fluxes. The
State is without coking coal, so attention
is being given to charcoal. As for the
sulphur panel, suitable iron-pyrites
deposits have been found in two or three
places, and local fertiliser cos. have
arranged to convert their plants from
treatment of imported brimstone to local
pyrite ore. They have contracted to take
20,000 tons valued at £40,000. Other
panels under control of Hawke’s depart-
ment indicate that the Government “has
been very wide awake in the matter.”
* *
Westralian goldmining cos. domiciled
in Britain and subject to English excess-
profits tax aren’t cheering Canberra’s
decision that under the uniform-
taxation scheme they no longer have to
pay State tax on profits. Absence of
Australian taxation merely increases the
profit subject to British imposts, in addi-
tion to which they will receive no
Dominion tax relief.
H: * * 4=
After the year’s extraction of 550,467
tons for 70,9600 z. gold—2idwt. a ton —
ore reserves at Wiluna (W.A.) on March
31, 1942, were put at 835,000 (down
280,000) tons, grade 3.3dwt. In nine
months since, the operating subsidiary of
Wiluna Gold Corp., London, has crushed
a further 426,895 tons for 2.2dwt. re-
coveries and consequently slenderer
margins. Working costs advanced from
17s. 7d. to 18s. lid. a ton last year, when
the working co. netted £A32,064, against
£200,889 the year before. But that was
after charging depreciation of £146,555
(up £77,666) —not an outgoing in the
normal sense, but a release of funds pre-
viously tied up in plant—and taxation
of £40,542 (down £9957), which is no
longer a factor to be reckoned with. War
has brought operations to a standstill at
Mt. Charlotte, to which Wiluna is look-
ing for its future and for which the man-
agement will hand over £220,000 of its
bulky accumulation of liquids if it likes
the prospects. Meantime, Federal Gov-
ernment is seeking to postpone the demise
of the present mine because of the anti-
mony and arsenic won as a by-product.
He * V *
From London:
“Gt. Boulder Shareholders’ Committee,”
consisting of W. A. Barton, K.C. (son of
Edmund Barton), George Elijah Goodheart
(stockbroker), W. Grundt (a former tributor)
and A. H. Coulson (a city actuary), is ques-
tioning the drawing from the co.’s funds of the
following amounts: (1) Expenditure incurred
in connection with the agitation of the afore-
said committee, £6203 ; (2) contributions to the
co.’s defence and share reinstatement commit-
tee (consisting of De Bernales, Campion and
ex-joint liquidator Rees), £8400; (3) outlay
through the proposed change of domicile to
Perth, £13,965. Barton and the other com-
mitteemen say that no detailed statement of
this expenditure has been forthcoming. They
claim to represent a large body of independent
shareholders, and say that they will have no-
thing to do with the “Shareholders’ Resumption
Group,” which they declare is supported by
De Bernales and his friends.
“With a view to helping to win the
war,” Edna May is installing plant to
extract an estimated 70 tons of wolfram
from 52,000 tons of old tailings on its
Westonia (W.A.) goldmine. A further
150,000 tons or so of residues has yet to
be sampled. Edna May is having a hard
struggle to keep going because of short-
age of dependable miners. A new breed
has developed in the West which, because
it can’t be sacked for a.w.1., takes time
off when it feels inclined.
* * * *
A bill providing after the war for
compulsory retirement and pensions to
Collie coalminers at 60 has passed the
Westralian Lower House, but the pros-
pect of it getting through the upper one
isn’t bright. Should it succeed, contri-
butions will be made by the State, the
cos. and the miners. A provision gives
the cos. power to deduct up to one half
of their contributions from ord. and pref.
dividends. Their other half is to come
out of the pockets of consumers in the
shape of a 2d. a ton increase in price.


I • ■
BY APPOINTMENT.
Post-war —as Pre-war
IS ESTERS VOICE
RADIO
WILL FAITHFULLY MAINTAIN
ITS HIGH STANDARD OF TONE-
QUALITY AND TECHNICAL
EXCELLENCE
☆
THE GRAMOPHONE COY. LTD. {lnc. in England), HOMEBUSH, N.S.W.
THE GRAMOPHONE COY, LTD.
(Incorporated in England)
HOMEBUSH N.S.W.
R. 27/42
sc
Yidt lC
lAPPS
Agents:
M. MOSS & CO. PTY. LTD., Sydney.
BUY WAR SAVINGS CERTIFICATES
W.S. 160. 8.
Business,Rollery,Etc.
Deathbed Repentance
Behind last week’s decision of the
Federal Government to levy increased
. ■ , . i f
income taxation there is a long story of
tragic neglect of a plain national duty,
It is hard to determine whether political
expedience or utter ignorance of financial
essentials had the more to do with the
policy of inflation plus overregulation
that the Government chose to follow. In
any case, commonsense was almost flip-
pantly defied for 16 months.
War expenditure is a physical tax on a
nation as well as, when honestly treated,
a money tax. There is nothing like a wai
to show up just how much credit can
and cannot do in the matter ot providing
the materials of war and at the same
time maintaining essential supplies lor
civilian life. We quickly found in this
war that money amounted to little moie
than organisation, and, however abso-
lutely essential that organisation was, it
was of little value unless it had something
in the shape of effort and materials to
organise.
In the early stages of this war we
had a surplus of money awaiting expendi-
ture on defence, but because we had not
tha machinery of production at hand we
could not go ahead with the amount of
munitions output we urgently re-
quired. Money had to wait on the train-
ing of workmen, the equipment of fac-
tories and the production of raw
materials. Until all that was done, and
the public generally had been induced to
co-operate in the war effort, it was im-
possible to spend money legitimately in
this country on the war job. And when
full spending did start, money taxation
for war should have kept step with the
physical taxation of war.
Australia has now been largely turned
into a nation deeply involved in war, even
if it is at the same time almost as deeply
involved in disgraceful politics. Huge
munition factories have been built, and
factories that existed prior to the war
have in a great number of cases been
turned over to the production of arms
and equipment for the fighting forces,
The people have begun to realise
that all these things consumed by the
war machine are being consumed at the
expense of their living standards, their
mode of living, their mode of travel and
the upkeep of their assets, including their
homes.
AU or most of those things that
matter in life—those things on which we
usually spend our money—are not avail-
able for the spending. No matter how
money is juggled with the real burden of
war on our present way of life cannot be
lightened except by “real” means—that
>?. greater Jnd more efficient produc-
tlon, P= r hea , d r Jy the . r of
waste, by good judgment in the matter of
war b ß y the elimination of
deadheads in the civil service, in private
industry and in the fighting forces. In
f ac t, by juggling with money only dam-
age is done and the burden made all the
heavier. Australia’s Government, by its
trickery and use of financial deception
since it took office, has added the founda-
bon of great future economic trouble to
buidMot war is a present
one jt has to be paid for at £ esent .
Output created after the war is no good to
us now Unless we can borrow fighting
ma t er ials from overseas we have to pro-
vjfie jfi em ourselves from our own present
production. We have, in fact, received
considerable help from the U.S.A. in the
s b a p e of lend-lease materials, but the
position has been arrived at, we are told,
w here we are providing United States
fighting men with food and equipment
that nearly if not entirely offsets the
value of aid to us. Our war expendi-
ture, as a result, has soared to unex-
pectedly high figures, and for the year to
June 30 next it is estimated at £460 mil-
lion in Australia and £BO million over-
seas—up £lOO million altogether on
the estimates of even six months ago.
Through money are distributed most
of the benefits and responsibilities of
national production and effort, per-
sonal service in the fighting forces
excepted. In order for all Austra-
lians to get a fair deal in peace and
in war, it is essential that the national
purse be properly managed. When it is
realised that at present war expenditure
i s representing £540 million in a national
income of £lOOO million, the necessity
for honest, sensible and straightforward
financial methods based on the exigen-
cies of the times should be apparent to
any intelligent and conscientious Aus-
tralian. Actually, Australia’s finances
have been mismanaged in keeping with
a policy of political opportunism. For
16 months a Labor Government has en-
deavored to let off from adequate mone-
tary taxation a section of the people
representing 90 p.c. of all income-earners
in the Commonwealth and 70 p.c. of all
incomes. This is the section of the com-
munity earning £8 a week and under —
the greatest producing factor in the coun-
try admittedly, but also the greatest con-
suming—and voting—mass. Civilian con-
sumption, unrestricted by taxation or
other measures, can almost defeat a war
effort.
At present a single man on £2OO a year
in Australia pays £8 a year in income tax,
compared with £25 in New Zealand and
£22, plus £ll post-war credit, in Britain.
On £4OO a year the Australian pays £57,
against £B5 in N.Z. and £BB, plus £23
p.-w. c., in Britain. The Australian in
this income class is so lightly taxed and
so numerous that the size of his income
after taxation is a menace to the war
effort. By reason of the increased em-
ployment and generally higher level of
incomes in this group serious competi-
tion has been set up for essential goods
and services, and inflation has resulted,
with much more threatened. All sorts
of absurd rationing and “austerity” have
followed the Government’s reluctance to
ration money adequately by taxation in
the hands of the free-spenders.
In addition, as the Government was
too careful of its political hide to raise
enough taxation money from its voting
followers and others in their income class,
it had to provide some sort of money to
pay for war expenditure. This it has
done by excessive taxing of the middle
and higher incomes and by the inflation-
ary process of discounting Treasury bills
with the Commonwealth Bank. Upwards
of £2OO million of bank credit has been
pumped into the economic system in 18
months, and, in spite of artificial controls,
the squeeze of inflation is already being
felt.
Although the Government previously
refused to levy substantial tax on the
under-£B-a-weeicers, and gravely upset the
economic system by not doing so, it has
at this late stage decided, as most people
knew a couple of years ago, that they can
bear added tax. Last week Mr. Chifley
introduced a new taxation scale in the
House of Representatives that levies addi-
tional tax on these incomes. But at the
same time he has imposed extra tax on
incomes in. the higher groups that were
already taxed out of proportion to lower
incomes. Here is the new scale, plus
comparisons with similar tax on similar
incomes in Britain and New Zealand:
Aust. U.K. . N.Z.
Income. Tax. Tax. P.-w.C. Total. Tax.
£ £ £ £ £ £
100 13
150 .. 11 8 10 18 19
200 .. 22 22 11 33 25
250 .. 37 35 12 47 40
300 .. 55 49 17 66 54
350 .. 75 67 22 89 70
400 .. 95 88 23 111 85
500 .. 437 129 27 156 118
600 .. 178 171 30 201 152
800 .. 265 254 37 291 225
1.000 .. 355 338 43 381 305
1,500 .. 619 546 60 606 534
2.000 .. 951 796 60 856 805
3.000 .. 1747 1402 60 1462 1472
5.000 .. 3530 2777 60 2837 3204
10,000 .. 8155 6802 60 6862 7704
It can be seen from that comparison
that many incomes of under £8 a week
still are to bear lighter taxation in Aus-
tralia than in Britain or Maoriland. Up
to a thousand a year British taxes, plus
post-war credits, are still higher than
the taxes Mr, Chifley proposes to levy
from April 1 onwards. But over £lOOO,
amongst a class that represents only 1.6
p.c. of income-earners and 12 p.c. of in-
comes, Mr. Chifley’s exactions are the
heaviest in the Allied world. It is not
that Mr. Chifley’s Government in the past
has not believed in taxation ; it has not
cared a hoot how severely the minority
of voters have been victimised by taxa-
tion or anything else. Its solicitude has
been entirely of a political character, and
therefore of an extremely dangerous
character. An all-in war effort demands
the sinking of political matters in the
interests of national preservation. Yet
never have politics been allowed to do so
much damage to the Australian nation.
Even in this new move on the part of
the Government political trickery is a
paramount feature. Although a big
mouthful is made of the great (and in-
deed grave) cost of war, of the £4O mil-
lion of new tax money estimated to be
raised, only £lO million will go directly
to the war effort. It seems that £3O mil-
lion a year is to be transferred to a
National Welfare Fund, and then largely
borrowed back for the purposes of de-
fence. As this paper has said before, the
same purpose would be served if the £3O
million were spent straightout on the war
and after the war the Government
imagined it had a “welfare fund.”
“The mass of the people are deter-
mined that somehow or other they will
have a better world to live in, that their
sacrifices during the war shall not be in
vain and their hopes shall not be frus-
trated.” Thus the “Times Trade and
Engineering,” adding, “That, as we see
it, was what inspired the Atlantic
Charter.” Most of us have accepted
the fact that this war has been one
against aggression. It follows that, if we
are successful in rendering the aggressor
impotent of further assault upon our-
selves or the other people he has attacked,
then the prime object of the war has
been achieved. It is rather difficult to
see how countries which were economi-
cally free before the war started are to
be economically better off afterwards
simply because an aggressor who did not
become such until 1939 has been anni-
hilated. Economically we may be worse
off —for a time, anyway. It is quite pos-
sible, and highly desirable, for the people
to have a better world to live in after
the war. But we have to remember that
it was possible to have this better world,
economically, before the war started.
What were problems then will still be
problems. Therefore don’t let us con-
fuse the issue too much by dragging in
prominently the question of war-time sac-
rifices after the war is over. The point
is that there should have been equality
of sacrifice during the war, and that peace
will have demands entirely of its own. To
have a better world we have to have
better, more thoughtful people.
* * * *
Protests by Labor Ministers that they
are not actuated by any socialistic
motives in their war policy are revealed
at something nearer their true value when
matters like compulsory unionism are
brought forward. Compulsion in union-
ism can be of no value at all in relation
to the war effort. Those workers who
are not now unionists clearly aren’t
anxious to be unionists. And unionism
these days isn’t synonymous with in-
creased output, notwithstanding the great
demands imposed on everyone by the
war. Some blind men employed as
testers in a munitions factory by virtue
of their keen sense of touch have come
in for criticism by other unionists be-
cause of the speed at which they work.
The highly-unionised trades, such as
coalmining, are the most fruitful of in-
dustrial trouble. Unions and unionism
have their legitimate place, but in Aus-
tralia they are in danger of becoming
one of the principal means of introduc-
ing socialism.
* * * *
The High Court has held that there
is no “frustration of contract” in con-
nection with leased Neon signs undei
blackout conditions. The matter has
been the subject of various actions in
lower courts. Press reports do not state
whether the judgment applies to “under-
awning” signs alone or to “over-awning’
signs as well. At one stage of the liti-
gation there was held to be a difference.


THE
lIMITCn iNSURANCE
U 111 IC. U COMPANY LTD.
ESTABLISHED 1862,
Head Office:
GEORGE 8 HUNTER STREETS. SYDNEY.
CAPITAI £1,000,000
All classes of Fire, Marine and
Accident Insurances effected at
Lowest Current Rates.
The '‘United” is an Australian Institution.
A. C. DAWSON,
Gen. Manager.
T. O. REYNOLDS,
isst. Gen. Manager.
USELESS SPENDING
IS
I
■ •■< if
•ill
m
mam
v
Every pound you spend
unnecessarily weakens the
war effort... wastes man-
power which is needed
for essential production
. . . and deprives the
fighting forces of arras
and equipment vital to
a speedy victory. Save
~. deny yourself .. . and
put all your savings into
vital equipment for our
fighting forces, the guns,
tanks, planes, and war
materials without which
victory cannot quickly be
achieved.
SAVE.. .ALL you CAN AND BUY
6! WAR SAVINGS STAMPS
Cl WAR SAVINGS CERTIFICATES FOR 16/
£lO NATIONAL SAVINGS BONDS
Or make an Advance Subscription to the next War Loan through any Bank, Savings
or Stockbroker .
Bank
525.17
m
"^v
10 for 1/1
20 for 2/2
Vi
IT
##
Save - or Slave. Put
all you've got into £lO
National Savings Bonds.
50 6 5 B
The Commonwealth Treasurer last
week gave a summary of expenditure
figures for 1942-43. Total war outgo is
expected to be up £lOO million on Budget
estimates, and civil expenditure £3 mil-
lion higher. Here are tabulated details:
Budget Revised
Estimates. Estimates. Increase.
Expenditure— £ mil. £ mil. £ mil.
War —Australia .. 390 460 70
Oversea .. 50 80 30
Totals .. .. 440 540 100
Other expenditure 109 112 3
Total expenditure 549 652 103
Revenue .. .. 249 262 13
Balance by loans
and Treasury bills 300 390 90
Of the total increase of £lO3 million,
only £l3 million is being found by taxa-
tion ; additional borrowing will be £9O
million, making total borrowings £390
million, largely in the form of Treasury
bills, and representing 72 p.c. of the total
war expenditure. For the half-year to
Dec. 31 bank credit alone amounted to
£lO6 million, other borrowing £lOO mil-
lion. It is clear from these figures that
not only is the public not providing
enough money out of taxation for war
purposes ; it is not helping on an ade-
quate scale with direct loan assistance.
That is largely because of lack of confi-
dence in the Government. As a result, a
huge volume of inflationary bank credit
is being created on the security of nothing
more than war waste, with confusion and
the threat of much greater confusion,
damage and loss to the Australian eco-
nomy and personal living standards.
* *
The proposed new Federal taxation
will be made in 1943-44 on incomes
earned in 1942-43, but weekly tax deduc-
tions from wages to meet the new taxes
will begin on April 1, Instalments will
be spread over the full 52 weeks, instead
of the present 40. An additional revenue
of £4O million per full year is expected ;
as incomes above £8 a week are bearing
additional tax, this £4O million shows that
the under-£8 field can contribute further
from incomes aggregating £590 million.
Present exemption drops from £156 to
£lO4, and personal-exertion rates are to
start at 6d. in the £ at £lO4 and to rise
to 18s. 6d. on any excess over £5OOO.
Property rates are to be the same as
p.-e. up to £2OO a year. They will then
rise until at £lOOO a. year and upwards
they will be 25 p.c. greater. Payments
made by instalments during a year in ex-
cess of the eventual assessment will be
retained by the Taxation Department and
credited with interest at 2 p.c. p.a.
* * * *
Because of men going on to wages
instead of contract work there has been
a notable fall in output at the Barrier
mines. Men have been refusing to work
on contract. As a result of smaller out-
put from underground some hundreds of
men in other parts of the mines have
been put off. The whole thing is a pretty
poor advertisement for the men. When
paid by results output kept up. When
paid by the day results went to pot.
* * * *
L. J. Harnett, director of ordnance pro-
duction in the Ministry of Munitions,
has suggested that we should devote
about 10 p.c. of present attention to post-
war planning, as this would not only add
zeal to the war effort, but would pre-
vent disaster later. It is a good sugges-
tion, especially if the attention which
we devote to the problem involves
recognition of the sacrifices we must
shape up to now if we are to tackle the
post-war period without a hangover.
* * * *
The position in the development of
Leigh Creek (S.A.) brown coal, as now
set out by Premier Playford: A drag-
line excavator offered has been with-
drawn ; and water supply, from the old
Sliding Rock mine, is held up by an in-
flux of silt; but a few months should see
these setbacks overcome. The B.H.P.
Co. seems satisfied with a 200-lon
test, “the first time a mechanical
plant has used it successfully.” Playford
foresees an immense demand for this
brown coal for electric-power generation
in S.A.’s northern towns, and also in the
many irrigation works on the Murray,
“where firewood supplies are becoming
increasingly difficult,” It is hoped to
deliver it in Adelaide for about 255. a
ton.
* * *
The States which are putting away
most of their unspent war-time income
in the savings banks are Queensland,
where the increase in deposits over 12
months has been 22.3 p.c., and Westralia
(up 20.4 p.c.). This trend has been a
development of the last year; previously
Victoria showed the most affluence. Last
year Victoria showed an increase of 15.4
p.c. (almost identical with N. S. Wales),
South Aus. 16.8 p.c., Tasmania 7.1 p.c.
and the A.C.T. 10.6 p.c.
* * * *
“D, Fitz Adams”: A stanza or two
from the Rubaiyat of Omar Ben Chifley:
And Lo! Our Treas’ry Bills they fill the Sky,
Like Lang’s, they’re with us till the Day we die,
And while we dilly-dally more the Debt,
Rolls impotently on as Thou or I.
Alike for those who for Today prepare,
And those that after a Tomorrow stare,
A Darcey from the Tower of Credit cries,
“Fools! What you think is neither here nor
there! ”
And if the Overtime, the Quids you bless,
End in the Nothing Credit ends in—Yes —
We didn’t tax you Much —lnflation did;
Though Quids be Nothing, they shall not be
less.


THE SERVICE MAN
Out of Guadalcanal.
“Ek Dum”; Washington reported last
week that the last of the Japanese occu-
pants of Guadalcanal —1500 to 2000 of
them—had quitted the island, and Major-
General Patch, who succeeded Major-
General Vandergrift when the U.S. Army
took over from the Marines, announced
that the Japanese 17th Army had been
totally defeated and destroyed. Organ-
ised Japanese resistance on the island
had ceased. Twenty thousand Japanese
had been killed since August 7, besides
thousands drowned at sea and losses of
naval personnel.
It was mainly an old-fashioned busi-
ness of individual fighting. The Jap,
once landed, stuck as long as he could
in prepared positions. When driven out
of them, he dug himself into a hillside
and stayed dug in until somebody dug
him out or threw a grenade or two or a
burst of fire into his lair.
For months on Guadalcanal it seemed
that the more Japs there were destroyed,
the more there seemed to be. A.I.F.
farmers from the skeleton-weed country
would have been thoroughly at home
weeding Japs on Guadalcanal. When,
on February 9, two converging forces
of Doughboys clamped themselves to-
gether at the Tenamba River, near Cape
Esperance in the north of the island,
they found, instead of a good handful
of Tojo’s fighters in their grip, merely
a few wrigglers.
The last remnants of the invaders were
fenced in (partly by a sea expedition) on
a northern beachhead, and wiped out by
sundown save for 1500 who were taken
off in destroyers— two of the flotillas
totalling 20 which came down from Buin
in the few days previous were sunk for
certain, and probably another five.
Over 5000 enemy dead were counted
after the drive, including those whom
sickness had claimed. Many had taken
their own lives under the nerve-impact
of shellfire—a suspicion is beginning to
grow in some quarters that the old legend
about some Asiatics’ sensitiveness to
shellfire has a pinch of truth in it.
The debris of the enemy dugouts and
camps told the same tale as at Buna.
Surgical facilities and medical supplies
were modern, but in incongruous selec-
tion —blood plasma enough, but no trace
of the most necessary of all drugs,
quinine. Without quinine “hundreds” of
Japs died.
Prisoners there were few—only 105
against 4000 killed in the last fortnight
of January. Sooner than surrender when
their food or ammunition ran out, the
desperate little men resorted to any
means of escape. They hid their
famished bodies in hollow trees, crawled
into the undergrowth or under logs to
die of starvation and wounds, often self-
inflicted.
Their resistance in the last stages was
feeble. U.S. casualties in the fortnight
ended January 31 were only 198 killed,
398 wounded and five missing. And the
enemy left much booty behind —two com-
plete radio stations, scores of sampans
and landing boats, 200 collapsible boats,
dozens of outboard motors, field pieces,
machine-guns and coast guns, as well as
ammunition, food and medical supplies.
Not Materially Changed
All this was heartening in itself. The
more airy-minded correspondents saw
themselves already reporting the capture
of Rabaul, followed by a triumphal entry
into Tokyo, The view of the U.S. Navy
Department is that the victory has “not
materially changed the situation in the
South-west Pacific.”
The enemy has the qualities of a slimy
young octopus. Forced out of Guadal-
canal with shocking slaughter, his 16th,
29th (Hong Kong veterans), 224th (China,
Malaya, Java, Timor) and 124th regi-
ments annihilated, he was not accounted
for until he had advanced the construc-
tion of Munda aerodrome on New
Georgia, laid down new dumps there in
spite of all naval and air attempts to
prevent him, and established facilities
also at Rekata Bay (Ysabel), Kolomban-
gara and on the Russell Islands.
Nearer to Australia
Thus, while on Guadalcanal the Japs
had no ’drome after the Marines landed
last August, they are now lodged round
a better aerodrome than Henderson
Field, 50 miles closer to Townsville, 150
miles nearer the Cape York Peninsula
and nearly 200 miles nearer to Moresby,
on the route which from Shortland
Island is 185 miles less than Guadalcanal.
From Kolombangara Island, which lies
just to the north-west of New Georgia,
to Faisi is only 100 miles ; to Milne Bay
about 450 miles.
All Japanese operations throughout
the stretch from Rabaul to the southern
Solomons seem coverable by land-based
enemy fighters. Any Allied ships which
venture into the rectangle of sea between
New Britain and the Louisiades and
Milne Bay and Ysabel must need a strong
aerial guard.
Before the war this paper frequently
canvassed the necessity for the Solomons
and New Hebrides being absorbed into
the Australian administration and de-
fence zone, and placed in a proper con-
dition of defence as befitted the island
shield of this continent. Official deaf-
ness has cost dearly even now in men,
ships and ’planes, as it did in New
Guinea. The full price has yet to be
paid.
The fighting is not all over in the Solo-
mons area, nor has the danger been re-
moved from Australia. Colonel Knox,
U.S. Navy Secretary, told a press con-
ference last week that air and sea battles
were continuing there after a fashion—
but what fashion he did not relate. The
“incident was not yet completed ; when
it was the full story would be told.” He
said Guadalcanal would be a useful for-
ward base in progress towards the Japa-
nese homeland, but that progress “had
never been contemplated as an island-
to-island affair.”
The colonel emphasised that the Japa-
nese line had been “re-formed further
north and that everywhere in the Pacific
the enemy had entrenched himself more
strongly.”
Bombing of Munda and other bases
continues, and U.S. heavies during the
week attacked Kiska in the Aleutians,
damaging installations.
There, as in the south, the fight is just
beginning.
Wau—Grave of 1000 Dead.
“Ek Dum”: Jap Imperial H.Q., breath-
ing hard, perpetrated a grim joke on its
listeners when it announced that “the
Japanese troops, having gloriously com-
pleted their mission, evacuated the Buna
area of Papua on January 30.”
A MacArthur communique baldly
stated that the Imperial H.Q. statement
had “no basis in fact.” Actually, it was
less untruthful than many of General
Tojo’s efforts. All the Japanese, save
for a few miserable skeletons, had been
evacuated—to their ancestors.
The residue of the skeletons, of which
225 or more had been knocked off in
various ways in the Kumusi River area
the week before, were still in process of
being dealt with. On Feb. 12, about 50
were reported to have been killed along
the river.
About 125 miles away, as the crow
flies, the last chapter was being written
in the 12-day-long combats of Crystal
Creek, four miles east of Wau. From
here, Australians began a push which
took them across miles of rough country
to a point near Wandumi village, the
enemy supply base, and began to con-
verge on the Black Cat Track which the
invaders had shorn through kunai and
jungle.
The enemy H.Q. at Crystal Creek had
been taken. Australian artillery, brought
by air and mounted in strength, pounded
the whole Crystal Creek area from Sun-
day till Wednesday. The countryside was
littered with more than 300 dead, to add
to the 800 already wiped out. Their
wounded and other casualties were offi-
cially believed to be “many times as
great.” Our losses were “light.”
The miserable remnants of the Japan-
ese force which had almost made its way
into Wau, and which had come within
an ace of occupying the aerodrome, made
off, seeking to find a way to Mubo and
Salamaua. They left behind two modern
one-inch guns, many m.-gs., rifles,
grenades, much ammunition and medical
and surgical equipment of a higher order
than the emaciated owners.
A few prisoners were Captured.
Outside the main New Guinea area
the story of the past week might have
been that of the week before, allowing
for a lull in the bombing of the major
bases.
Visit to Kendari
The air forces threw shadows over the
Dutch East Indies and over all the seas
of the southern fringes of the Bismarcks.
From everywhere was reported the pres-
ence of the enemy trying to tighten his
grip. More than hitherto, there were
signs of development of enemy activity
on Timor.
Rabaul had its heaviest raid of
all time on Feb. 14, when it was
attacked by 30 heavy bombers. The
air forces stretched out their fingers
almost as far as militiamen need
go under the Commonwealth Govern-
ment’s new defence legislation—to Ken-
dari on the east coast of Celebes. Not
for six months had a visit been paid
to this hotbed of aggression. It was
not a pleasant trip—7oo miles of
thick weather lay between —but when the
Liberators broke through they found it
worth while. The aerodrome had been
much developed. There was a trans-
port of 6000 tons in the offing, and only
a few lonely “O” fighters wandering
round the equatorial heavens.
One flight peeled off and added a stick
of bombs to the transport’s cargo, though
results were not observed. The other
two flights trundled happily on, plugged
nine tons of bombs into a group of build-
ings, producing a heavens-high explosion
and enough red fire and murk for a
Chinese New Year.
Then the “O’s” appeared on the scene,
one set of six jackalling after a Liberator
flight for nearly an hour. One jackal
was shot down for certain, another prob-
ably. A second flight had three or four
wary escorts, but soon left them behind.
The pendant to the report of the
heaviest gruelling Kendari has so far suf-
fered—but merely a sample of what is
to come—read: “All aircraft returned
safe.”
February 15, 1942.
“Ek Dum”: February 15 at 7.50 a.m.
marked the anniversary of the moment
at_ which 17,000 brave Australians of the
Eighth Division, A.1.F., including rein-
forcements which had arrived on the
island only a few days before, went into
captivity at Singapore.
The Causeway to Johore had been
blown up. The guns began to shell the
island two days later. On Feb. 8 Japa-
nese were as thick as locusts on the
Johore side and had positions on an
island in the strait. Enemy ’planes began
to blast out every gunpost and h.q. post
round the defensive perimeter—positions
which proved to be exactly known to
them. Then, across the narrow strait in
the darkness Nipponese hordes poured
against the thinly-held Australian en-
trenchments west of the Causeway.
The invaders here met with a terrible
resistance, but they were ten against one,
fresh men against men bone-weary with
a fortnight of fighting and marching.
Australian losses were heavy in that
night’s fight.
For a week Singapore resisted, its brave
men counter-attacking ceaselessly, falling
back inch by inch till lack of water and
food and the certainty that a helpless civi-
lian population would be wiped out in
tens of thousands made surrender a bitter
necessity.
The fate of our Eighth Division has
been such that the blow has been all the
heavier for relatives and friends to bear.
Where prisoners have been taken by Ger-
mans or Italians, who subscribe to the
Geneva Conventions, their fate is known.
These Australians disappeared into the
silence —boys fresh from school, hardy
young fathers of families and the gallant
residue of reinforcements, largely Old
Diggers of the last war who had to be
hurried off at the last moment. Of most
of these veterans it is not known for
certain whether they are alive or dead.
During the last few weeks, however,
casualty lists, tardily released by the
enemy, have shown several hundred
names of prisoners of war, previously
reported missing, and, to relatives of
others still waiting, the very large pro-
portion of officers is encouraging.
Singapore was Australia’s first experi-
ence of that sort of disaster, but the
British Army has suffered in many a
similar situation without failing in the
end to win the last battle.
In France in 1940 the 51st Scottish
Division, after having fought its way
across the country to the little town of
St. Valery-en-Caux, was in such a plight
that its bloodied remains were compeiied
to lay down their arms.
“To Scotland” —it is the division’s
chronicler reporting—“the news came like
another Flodden. Scotland is a small
country, and in its northern half there was
hardly a household that had not at least
a cousin in one of the Highland regi-
ments. The disaster, for a little while,
seemed overwhelming.”
But Scotland has its own way of
mourning, far better than the one which
marked the memory of our Eighth Divi-
sion this week with the utterance of a
few desultory platitudes and a gabbled
reference sandwiched into the A.B.C.
programme of perambulator-and-meat
board.
The brothers, the cousins, the friends
of the lost 51st at once built a new divi-
sion in its image. A grim, hairy High-
land division filled with bitter pride and a
thirst for revenge.
Almost two and a half years to the day
after the disaster at St. Valery-en-Caux
the sun rose over the raw landscape of
El Alamein. Montgomery’s advance was
in full flood. Forging ahead on the
right wing, brigaded with the Australian
Ninth Division, far in advance of all the
other troops in the field, the blackened
positions behind them strewn Flodden-
thick with German and Italian dead, was
the reborn 51st Scottish Division.
It was regiments of the 51st—Sea-
forths and Gordons —that broke their
way into Tripoli. Their pipes were the
first that sounded off derision at Rom-
mel’s fleeing rearguards in the streets of
that forlorn city. The tune was the Gor-
dons’ “Cock o’ the North.”
The Scottish example is one Austra-
lians could well follow. Many a lad of
the Eighth Division, which was full of
battalions that were heirs to great fight-
ing records, and especially its grim rem-
nant of old fighters from Pozieres, would
feel better for the knowledge that the
Eighth did not die with a proud sur-
render, and that a re-formed Eighth Divi-
sion was carrying on in their name the
tradition of the men of Robertson and
Anderson, of the Muar and the fights
behind Gemas.
"Massing for a Major Battle."
“Ek Dum”: The Tunisian campaign is
gradually taking shape, but snow and
mud are still holding up large-scale
operations on both sides, except for the
usual feints and feelers.
The Axis forces, as a whole, have a
much larger helping of Germans than
Rommel had. They are divided into five
groups. About a third of the two Axis
armies is in the Bizerta-Tunisian area.
The rest are at and around Pont du Fahs,
40 miles s.-w. of Tunis ; in the formidable,
heavily-gunned motorised group inland
from Sfax, blocking the Paid Pass ; in the
Gabes force (purely a holding and com-
munications force containing a leaven of
Italians) and finally on the Mareth Line,
The Allied command has been settled.
It is much on the lines adopted in the
South-west Pacific. General Eisenhower
—he has been promoted—has been
named Commander-in-Chief of the whole
North African area. His duties appar-
ently are mainly strategical; he is a sort
of Chief of the General Staff holding
a position akin to that of General Sir
Alan Brooke, C.I.G.S. ip Britain. His
appointment was made on the suggestion
of Mr. Churchill. The actual field com-
mand is in the hands of General Alex-
ander, and the individual army commands
are in those of Generals Montgomery
(Eighth Army) and Anderson (First
Army), Giraud and Le Clerc., The re-
doubtable Cunningham commands at sea.
The air commands are divided much as
the land commands, but the actual fight-
ing tasks are allotted to experienced
Britons, who know more about the game
by this time than anybody in the world.
Apropos, the Eighth Army destroyed or
found abandoned a staggering total of
1075 aircraft along its route from Egypt
and 800-odd were shot down for certain
apart from probables.
Mr. Roosevelt declares that the forces
gathered in North Africa are massing
for “one of the major battles of the war,’
of which the “prime purpose is to drive
the enemy into the sea.” General Mont-
gomery and General Le Clerc, he said,
would attack from the south; British,
Americans and General Giraud’s troops
from the west. He said he was afraid
the campaign would cost the Allies
heavily in casualties. Probably it will;
it also will cost the enemy dearly. It
may even cost him everything in the end.
Actual fighting during the last week
was confined to fierce thrust and counter-
thrust, offensive and exploratory raids
and the mutual blasting of the air forces
all round the battle and communication
area. The Eighth Army is moving into
position in the south.
Some time within the next fortnight
or three weeks should see at least the pre-
liminary large-scale sparring and air
preparation for the great showdown.
According to Mr. Churchill there must
be nearly 250,000 Axis troops in Tunisia.
In the Balance.
“Ek Dum”: From Stalingrad by Feb.
15 the battle had rolled back 180 miles.
It was here said three months ago that t
nearest suitable line for the Germans
winter defence was along the Voronezn-
Rostov railway. At the beginning ot t e
week they were still on the southern pa
of that line, but they had abandoned t
northern half of it and were in proa*
of moving off the rest. They had, m
north, sacrificed Byelgorod, which tn
also lost last year, and further norm
again they had quitted Kursk witho
anything more than a rearguard ac i
as they left it. They had accord-
ing to the Russians, pulled back across


ca
am
the Donetz lower down till the Russians
were within gun range of Kharkov; and
on the southern half of the line, along
the eastward face of the great Lugansk
triangle, they had begun to move out of
the shield cities.
In the Kuban country the enemy had
given up Krasnodar, one of the two big
cities they had there—the other. Novo-
rossisk, they still held at the week-end.
Novorossisk and the Taman Peninsula,
their stepping-stone across the Kerch
Strait in the Cis-Caucasus, were all that
remained of their Kuban and Caucasian
conquests. The Russians, with just pride,
announced that the enemy had been
hustled out of Krasnodar as he had been
hustled out of every town retaken since
Kotelnikovo—some fierce fighting by
screen troops, which the Germans reckon
in divisions or regiments and correspon-
dents in hundreds of thousands ; then a
sharp rearguard action and retreat with-.
out further struggle. There are no recent
records of real attempts by the enemy to
defend cities from inside.
. The nature of the fighting evidently
has changed considerably. Despite the
correspondents’ concept of events, which
is of a vast battle being operated against
solid lines of the enemy hundreds of
miles long, the normal picture of the
Russian countryside (except in the Kuban
area) is of a bleak, snow-covered land-
scape, the drifts sometimes man-deep or
more, the temperature far below the
freezing-point of lubricating oil, a cold
in which men’s fingers drop off when ex-
posed bare, in which eyes are apt to be
rent to pieces, in which the ground has
become so iron-hard that the dead can-
not be buried and sinking a posthole is
work for dynamite.
In this cold it is difficult to think of
large movements of heavy siege equip-
ment or the like. It is the realm of the
Cossack, the swift-moving ski troops,
the mobile forces armed with the kind
ef outfits that can be carried by sled.
For aircraft there is little that can be
done. For days at a time the atmosphere
is like cotton-wool. Still the weather may
be quite abnormal—it has been in Britain
and some other parts of Europe.
The Ukraine front now presents as in-
teresting a puzzle as it has at any time.
The strength or weakness ot the Ger-
mans, their intention or their capacity
to resist in that cold hell of snow and
murk, is even more a matter of guess-
work than it was last year.
The offensive operations against them
now divide themselves into three sections
north of the Don. The northern area is
from Byelgorod to Orel, which, in re-
lation to the country behind it, is much
in the same position as the Gzatshk lines
along the Smolensk-Moscow road last
winter—a fist at the end of an eastward-
Anna Qrm
it romoinc lap whptW an
flttpmnt mi Kp trmrlp to hold it The
bdSS
and
! y “°? 1 Kharkov > ( ia r r y^ f
nik tt Lukl has cet
?aMy J gaSe.
Retirement to this line from Orel would
again very grea ly shorten he lines which
the Germans hold by pulling back a
great bulge It is conceivable that Orel
might be abandoned for strategic reasons.
but not Bryansk ; not Rosoch.
, The real test does not, however lie
in this sector, but in the one to the south-
ward The northern bastion of this is
Kharkov; the southern was certainly
Rostov or some place immediately to
the west of it, 270 miles from Kharkov.
It was most likely Taganrog.
Kharkov is a great industrial city of
nearly 900,000 people in normal times,
It forms an island by itself.
About 100 miles south of it is the
northern boundary of the great Donetz
industrial area, which reaches down to
Rostov and the Lower Don. North to
south this area is perhaps 150 miles deep ;
east to west, about the same. It is Russia’s
edition of the German Ruhr and the Eng-
lish Black Country—a vast aggregation
of great industrial cities, merging almost
indistinguishably into each other, their
industries built on local coal and metals,
All this the Germans overran and more
before the end of 1941. But from the
frontal towns on the east, from Rostov
northwards, they retreated in December,
1941, so soon as they were faced with
a Russian offensive. They fell back from
Rostov about 15 miles, building their
aerodromes and dumps round Taganrog,
a large city of nearly 200,000 people,
which lies 40 miles to the west. They
rested north to south on a line which
ran from Taganrog through the high
ground via Stalino, the biggest ot the
cities of the Lower Donetz, along a rad-
way which took the shortest route to
Kharkov. The southern part of this line
was not breached by the Russians last
winter, except perhaps desultorily, within
the intense industrial area,
Just before the week-end the enemy
began to let go his grip on towns and
cities on the lower levels of the eastern
face of the Donetz area along the Voro-
nezh-Rostov rail-belt. Among them were
Shakhty, Novocherkassk and Voroshi-
iov: sizable cities, comparable to New-
castle (N.S.W.). Then he quitted Voro-
shilovgrad and Rostov. The Russians
described “fierce” fighting outside Voro-
shilovgrad. Inside there was only clean-
ing U p to do.
History will write down the period
round February 12-16 as the decisive
point of the winter campaign of 1942-43
i n Russia.
Though Hitler has lost vast areas of
i an d, so far, it is a question how much
he has lost in material resources during
the retreat from the Volga. His greatest
i oss i s strategic and in man-power. It is
very difficult to conceive that, except
under force of the direst compulsion, he
would retire from the Donetz.
Kharkov a Test
While there is a doubt about the
strength of many German bases, there
is none whatever about Kharkov. It was
tested by large-scale attack again and
again i ast winter and in the spring. To
have to give up Kharkov and Taganrog
wou i d m , ean a long, bleak trek back to the
Gomel positions, so well known to earlier
generations—Mogilev, Gomel, Kiev
and so | nto Volhynia and Podolia. With
(fie endless river crossings, bleak steppes,
swa mps and boundless plains on the route
G f retirement to this line, the prospect in
the i ast G f the bitter snow month and the
worst of the thaw, with all the rivers reli-
ing h i g fi i n snow water, has all the seeds
of real disaster—unless, of course, the
main retirement already had taken place
and the enemy forces throughout the in-
dustrial area were a mere screen,
The fate of Kharkov and the Tagan-
line across the Donetz cities wiU
de * ide the fate of the campa i g n.
T , , , , ~ , . ,
K W not decided in a week or a
m °!« h “.even
cult to bell f s m the possibility of heavy
sie « e “pen* o ™ b V th = Rus f a " s “ Reb ;
™ary ° r . March weather at tlie end of
communication lines hundreds of miles
long-but decided it will be and that
Jftween Germans and Russians. From
Voronezh to the Don Bend the hues were
htdd > and the brunt of the re eat
bas been borne by Italians, RumamaM,
Hungarians South of the Don there
has b een a Hrge admixture of Rumanians
and Slovaks with Germans. Only at
Stalingrad and in its immediate area was
- S-t preponderance of German
°None °£ the divisions which have done
the falling back will be in much condi-
tion for fighting, even the reasonably
"““-J must do
Jg b r * succes sfully or he
flnds Mmscl{
near the old Russian
his lines of com-
munica I tion 1 ' sho £ tened almost t 0 the
G b d but with the reso urces
Ukraine ind the Middle Provinces
n conqueror gone,
1 b no
The Dnieper Drive
T ,, . , .. T
Between Kharkov and the
Donetz industrial area there is a jomt
d > strK .;- Thls 18 vast illimitable pHin,-
™ n" 1 ® 8 , ° r s 0 wide-fanning out many
more miles near the Dnieper.
There has been in the last few days a
break-through by the Russians here, but
it is too early to say what will come or
it. Last year at the same period they
broke through in nearly the same way to
exactly the same positions. They took
the same towns. They cut the same raii-
ways. They were reported to be within
a few miles of the Azov Sea and on the
Samara River, within 35 miles ot Dnepro-
petrovsk, on the Dnieper, the Germans
having fallen back in that area nearly 180
miles. .
But spring found the Germans in most
of the towns in this region. The
sians’ main lines were still east or the
Donetz ; and Timoshenko’s attempt to
isolate the Donetz Basin and cut Gei-
man lines of communication ended in a
defeat, which was capped by the enemy s
advance to the Volga and the Caucasus,
Whether conditions are different this
time, only time will tell. So tar the Rus-
sian advance sounds like a normal snow-
season penetration by lightweight fast
spearheads. But in this erratic winter it
may well be more, especially if there is
a collapse or withdrawal of German
strength.
The altered nature of the fighting in
the last fortnight and the change-over to
real winter campaigning have been illus-
trated by the Russian communiques.
Though several big cities —Kursk, Voro-
shilov, Krasnodar, Shakhty, Voro-
shilovgrad, Novocherkassk and Rostov
—have fallen, and the whole eastern face
has been peeled off the Bryansk, Khar-
kov, Lower Donetz and Kuban sectors
held by the enemy, the announcements
of the victories have not been accom-
panied by the long lists of prisoners and
of enemy dead and booty which figured
in the descriptions of all previous winter
victories, particularly in the Stalingrad
area.
Things look well in Russia. The effort
of the Red Army is being sustained
under conditions of cold and privation
unimaginable to those who have not had
a taste of them. And there has been no
murmur from the millions of game
civilians who are facing death just as
surely as their armies in their unwarmed *
dwellings and summer clothing and on a
diet which an Australian wharf-laborer
would throw to the pigs.
At the same time, there are salutary
warnings coming out of Russia from the
Russians themselves. General Chuikov,
the defender of Stalingrad, warned corre-
spondents last week that “although the
turning-point of the war has been
reached, German armies are still capable
of resuming the offensive in the spring.”
Two Anniversaries
Two anniversaries which usually bring
pronouncements respectively from Stalin
and Hitler fall within the next few days.
On Feb. 23 the Red Army celebrates
the 25th anniversary of its foundation
and “the beating-off of the Germans at
Narva and Porkhov on Feb. 23, 1918.”
Last year, Stalin celebrated by issuing an
Order of the Day.
On the same day Hitler usually goes to
Munich and delivers an address
there in celebration of “a day of great
significance”—the anniversary of the
promulgation of the programme of the
Nazi party. He told his followers in
1941: “Only fools can believe that 1918
will be repeated. God cannot desire that
we who have sacrificed so much shall be
beaten.”
It will be interesting to see whether he
will face his Munich audience this year.
Two Ships Torpedoed.
Last week General MacArthur’s Head-
quarters announced the sinkings of two
small vessels off the Australian east coast.
From the first 14 survivors were
brought ashore. Two of them were hav-
ing their second experience of being sub-
marined in eight months. Some of the
men had few or no clothes, but they all
succeeded in getting on to a raft from
which they were rescued.
The second ship was described as “an
Allied vessel.” Three separate attacks
were made on her in daylight. A sub-
marine had been sighted the day before.
After the ship was hit the crew aban-
doned her, but a boarding party re-
turned. She later was taken in tow, but
sank.
All the crew were rescued, though some
were burned by oil and the whole com-
plement had a narrow escape, since the
ship was set on fire by explosions.
Luckily the flames were put out before
they reached the powder magazine. Some
men were flung across the deck by the
force of the torpedo explosions and
wreckage was strewn round for 300
yards.
The gunners stuck to their posts to the
last after the rest of the complement had
been taken off in four lifeboats, but they
were cheated of the chance of a shot
at their adversary.
All four lifeboats were picked up after
nine hours at sea.
The Sea-war.
“Ek Dum”: The Russian drive adds
to the task of Britain, which has made the
sea and the air its main responsibilities in
the war. Little is being said of it, but
every hour there are thousands of British
seamen, their lives in momentary peril
day and night, fighting their way through
the endless blackout of the north and the
perilous (though not so perilous) seas of
the south to carry arms and tanks
and ’planes to the U.S.S.R., arms,
tanks and floods of men to Africa,
food for Britain, food for starving
Middle Easterners, war needs for Aus-
tralians, all the gigantic flow of goods
from Canada, whose war-production
potential now outstrips that of the Britain
of 1939 by many a yard.
The sea-war is far from over. Hitler
cannot risk Britain and the U.S. taking
the initiative before he is ready, if he can
help it. The very threat of a second front
forced him into precautions, and the Afri-
can events have illustrated to him forcibly
the vast efforts of which the Anglo-
American allies are capable.
Hitler claimed in his Bierhall speech
in Munich early in November that
24,000,000 tons of Allied ships had gone
to the bottom since 1939.
Three months later Mr. Churchill was
able to say;
Progress is being made in the fight against
U-boats. We are more than holding our
own. Nevertheless our losses are very
heavy and are prolonging the war. We have
had few losses in troop convoys; out of
3,000,000 men transported only 1348 have
been lost. And the rate of destruction of
U-boats has steadily improved.
He stressed that “the U-boat has been
given priority in all Anglo-American plans
and this was explicitly reaffirmed at
Casablanca.”
In the last six months, he said, Anglo-
American and Canadian construction ex-
ceeded all the United Nations’ loss by
over 1,250,000. The U-boats’ destructive
power was diminishing. Strong escorts
were the secret, and it had been decided
in the next few months to intensify the
construction of escort ships. He did not
say the extent to which Allied ship needs
are increasing.
On the other hand, the enemy was los-
ing a quarter to a third of his supplies at
sea before they reached the battlefield.
It needs little imagination to picture
what would be happening in Africa, par-
ticularly in French Africa, if Generals
Eisenhower and Anderson and the vigor-
ous Cunningham had not succeeded in
sending a lot of enemy supplies to the
bottom and in bottling up the Axis troops
where they are, and preventing this plague
from spreading over Africa.
The enemy, free to roam at large,
would have taken control of Dakar and
Casablanca. He would have had ports
in West Africa which would have brought
the South American coast into the very
thick of sea warfare.
He is now obliged to take the initia-
tive, to create diversions, to do any-
thing which will prevent huge numbers
of British and American troops from
being gathered in Tunisia —the best point
from which to strike at the Axis under-
line under present conditions.
Some of these diversionary moves are
already in progress —the pouring of troops
into the Balkans and the taking over of
long areas of the Channel coast and the
North Sea shores, from which civilians
are being shipped. It is not beyond the
bounds of possibility even that Hitler
might make a large feint at an invasion
of England, or try a real invasion of
Ireland as a measure to help him cut
the throat of Britain’s supply routes and
provide him with bases from which he
could harass all Britain’s industrial areas
from close quarters across St. George's
Channel.
Whatever his measures, they will be
fierce, heavy and dangerous.
Reported from New Delhi that, with
the dry season well ahead, thousands of
General Wavell’s troops and tens of thou-
sands of Indian coolies are pushing roads
across the Manipur hills to the Chindwin
River in preparation for the Burmese
offensive. Fighting continues before Ak-
yab. U.S. bombers made their heaviest
raid on Rangoon and hit the railway
station and Athlone docks.
* * * *
The R.A.F.’s biggest targets during the
past week were the U-boat bases of
Lorient on the Channel and Wilhelms-
hafen.
* * *
The story of Lieut.-Commander Dud-
ley Morton, U.S.N.; Gliding into We-
wak, New Guinea —it is not on the
charts, so he got in as best he could—
he and his crew of U.S. sub. Wahoo
found an 1800-ton Jap destroyer, a trans-
port with 6000 troops and three freighters
and sank the lot. General MacArthur
obliged with a well-earned D.S.C.


Divorce Notices.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES—In Divorce.
TO HERCULES JOHN FRANKLIN—TAKE
NOTICE that JOAN MERLIN FRANKLIN
has filed a Petition for Divorce No. 2337_ of
1942 on the ground of desertion without just
cause or excuse for three years and upwards
If you wish to defend you may enter an
appearance on or before the Twenty-eighth day
of April 1943 and obtain a copy of the petition
without charge from A. C. BOYLE & CO.
Solicitors 39 Martin Place Sydney.— (l.s.) J.
DOUGHAN, Deputy Registiar in Divorce.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES—In Divorce.
TO JOSEPH PATRICK WILLIAMS late of
Rozelle.—TAKE NOTICE that JESSIE WIL-
LIAMS has commenced a suit (No. 1744 of
1942) against you and is seeking a dissolution
of her marriage with you on the ground of
desertion for three years and upwards without
just cause or excuse If you wish to defend
you may enter an appearance at the Divorce
Office Supreme Court King Street Sydney by
the Seventh day of May 1943 and obtain a
copy of the petition without charge from
KEVIN O’MALLEY JONES Solicitor for the
Petitioner 33 Campsie Street Campsie — (l.s.)
C. K. BODY, Registrar in Divorce.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES—In Divorce.
TO ALBERT EDWARD COOPER late of
Sydney.—TAKE NOTICE that ROSA EILEEN
COOPER Respondent in Divorce Suit No.
1769 of 1940 and No. 1381 of 1942 (Consoli-
dated) intends to have the decree nisi made
herein on the 4th August 1942 absolute unless
within four days from the date of publication
hereof a request for such decree absolute
is filed by you.—PHILLIP N. ROACH Solicitor
160 Castlereagh Street Sydney. — (1.5.) C. K-
BODY, Registrar. _____
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES—In Divorce.
TO WALTER JOHN BRANDON (also known
as Walter Brown) late of Kiaraa.—TAKE
NOTICE that LILY EMMA JANE BRANDON
has filed a Petition for Divorce Nq. 2206 o
1942 on the ground of desertion without just
cause or excuse for three years and upwards
You may enter an appearance at the Divorce
Office Supreme Court King Street Sydney b
the 7th day of May 1943 and obtain a copy ot
the petition without charge from tTh 7
CORAN & CO. Solicitors Assembly Hah -
York Street Sydney—(l.s.) C. K. BODY.
Registrar in Divorce.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES—In Divorce.
TO HARRIETT LANE late of Adamstowm-
TAKE NOTICE that ALFRED EDWARD
LANE has filed a Petition for Divqrce No.
2806 of 1942 on the ground of desertion witn-
out just cause or excuse for three years; an
upwards You may enter an appearance a
the Divorce Office Supreme Court King Str J
Sydney by the Seventh day of May 1943 a
obtain a copy of the petition without charge
from JOHN CORCORAN & CO. Solicitor
Assembly Hall 2 York Street Sydney.—ft-sJ
C. K. BODY, Registrar in Divorce.
SPORTING NOTIONS
(Conducted by "PILOT")
A large attendance and a tote turnover
of over £37,000 gave Rosehill shareholders
an enjoyable day, but it was not quite so
pleasant for backers, only one favorite
being successful. Semaphoring of post
positions for each race after the decision
of the previous one was productive of
a muddle in connection with the Mac-
Arthur Stakes, but after that everything
went smoothly, the official broadcaster
being supplied with the barrier positions
so that they could be given out at the
same time as the jockeys’ names.
In the Flying Handicap Miss Pentheus
set a pace that was a little too lively for
Panchio and John Halifax, who were her
nearest followers three furlongs from
home, but she also found the strain a
little too severe. The result was that
Faerie Queene (Cook) took her measure
before reaching the leger. Romero ran
on well to cut Miss Pentheus out of second
money. Panchio, who is seemingly not
a weight-carrier, dropped right out in the
final furlong ; and, while there was little
between John Halifax and Magi for
fourth, the latter came home a little bet-
ter than most of the other unplaced
runners.
There was nothing between Cadger
(Mulley) and Widden at the finish of the
Rosehill Handicap, but the former, who
led into the straight, hung on well to
score by a head. War Trophy (third)
and Enderby were next, but over the last
furlong nothing had a chance against the
first two. Martheus had a long lead
early in the ‘piece, but, though he then
tired, his run suggested the possibility
of a win in a mile welter. Salivant dis-
played none of his customary dash.
Argus, ridden by an inexperienced
apprentice, was an absolute failure, and
Lord Valentine’s 8.3 had him beaten a
long way from home in time that was
only three-quarters of a second outside
the Rosehill record.
Young Valais got to the front from
High Flight early in the first division of
the Three-year-old Handicap, but, though
the latter disposed of Young Valais at the
top of the straight, he had nothing in re-
serve to meet Ayarpee’s challenge. Ayar-
pee, who was ridden by J. Thompson and
is a Brueghel filly, won decisively. Boor-
chief, who made up a lot of ground in
the last half-mile, cut Young Valais out
of third money almost on the post.
There was support for Main Topic, who
was above himself. He ran fifth, but
was never dangerous. Babillard was
soundly backed, but, though he looked
well and moved very freely in his pre-
liminary, made an indifferent showing.
He should shortly do better.
Head Chief, a smart-looking Beau
Pere colt, showed more pace than any-
thing else in the second division of the
Three-year-old Handicap, but, though
first into the straight, he was caught by
Parthian (Bartle) and Brueghmah at the
leger, Courallie joining in a little further
on. Parthian came home straighter than
the other two, beating Brueghmah a head,
and Courallie was almost level with the
latter. Head Chief and Mome were near-
est of the others, while Manday Son—
presumably favorite because of being in
the same stable as West Point —finished
in the middle of the field. Parthian, who
gave owner P. Tait and G. P. Nailon
their second win of the afternoon —
Faerie Queene was the first —is by Pan-
theon from Rose Mignon.
West Point’s (Cook) fourth in Flight’s
race at Randwick was not an effort of
much account, but backers showed good
judgment in making him favorite for the
MacArthur Stakes, He was smartly away,
and, though Warlock and Sincerity were
handy to him approaching the turn, he
left them after entering the straight, and
went on to win very easily from Denton
and Warlock. Kurranulla was a close
fourth, and then Sincerity. Frontier,
who finished ahead of West Point the
previous week, drew a bad post position,
and was never sighted, and Active Ser-
vice, a smart-looking half-brother, by
Brueghel, to Veiled Threat, bolted a few
furlongs before the start. West Point is
a half-brother, by Melfort, to Hall Mark,
and it is possible for him to prove the
best two-year-old in B. Payten’s team.
Gauntlet had such a useful lead com-
mencing the last hundred yards of the
Trial Stakes that he looked a certain
winner, but, as on more than one other
occasion, he weakened slightly in the last
bit, and was beaten on the post by Felt
Pal (Shean), who was third into the
straight, Cedric Major being second at
that stage. Again being slow to find her
legs, Blankit did well to run third, while,
though Sir Tennyson was fourth, he is
not improving. White Feather again ran
badly.
Linemond (Gollogly) won the Carling-
ford Mile by a head from the early leader,
Mortine, who adversely affected her own
chance by shifting about in the straight
and also contributed to Tel Asur getting
an indifferent run over the last furlong.
Halfway down the straight Glendower
raised his backers’ hopes, but could not
quite see it out. Willie Green did not do
as well as when he made such a good
bid for Fearless’s race at Randwick re-
cently, and Pannett again failed to show
anything approaching her best form.
Millais, purchased last November for
1400gns., and the first horse owned by L.
Stuchbery, won a stake of £lOOO when
he defeated Zonda, Law Student and 31
others in the Oakleigh Plate at Fleming-
ton on Saturday. It was his second race
for his new owner, his previous start hav-
ing yielded an unlucky second to Recep-
tion in the Standish Handicap. He
started equal second favorite at 7 to 1
on Saturday, and, always well-placed,
won by half a length from the faster-
finishing Zonda. Millais is a four-year-
old gelding by Portofino-Fission, and,
although the Oakleigh was only his
second win, he has raced only lightly and
has always given first-class promise. It
is intended to run him in the Futurity
Stakes next Saturday, then the New-
market.
A. Dewhurst was engaged for Millais
only three days before the Plate. R.
Shaw, trainer of the gelding, endeavored
to obtain H. Badger, but latter was kept
to his engagement for Murmuring, who
was never dangerous.
Zonda, having her first race for about
10 months, made a gallant attempt to
repeat her Oakleigh success of 1941. She
began slowly and took some time to find
her legs, but finished stoutly, and next
Saturday will have the opportunity to
compensate for two successive Futurity
Stakes seconds. Law Student had every
chance, but Burberry, backed from fives
to 7 to 2, could not go the early pace,
became boxed up in the field, and ran
on nicely in fourth position.
Sun Valley, backed from 12 to 1 down
to sevens, defeated the 6-to-4-on favorite,
Tranquil Star, out of a place in the St.
George Stakes, first w.f.a. race of the
autumn. Tranquil Star ran her race in
patches and finished only a moderate
fourth, but she has been beaten first-up
on previous occasions, and it would be
unwise to condemn her for Saturday’s
failure. Sun Valley, who had not raced
since October, shot past the pacemaker,
East End, on the turn, and streaked away
to win by four lengths from Pandect,
with East End third. Pandect ran on
well enough to indicate an Australian
Cup chance, and East End, racing for
the first time since winning the Oaks,
must be conceded good prospects in the
V.R.C. St. Leger. Sun Valley obviously
is back to his best form, and, with few
really good horses about, he should con-
tinue to pay his way this autumn.
Bookmakers bet 5 to . 1 against
Cellini being awarded the Bond Handi-
cap on protest from the favorite, Port-
folio, but stewards upheld the objection
and suspended Portfolio’s rider, D.
Walker, for three months for interference
about l|fur. from home. Portfolio
veered from the rails after leading into
the straight and left room for Cellini to
go through. Portfolio switched back
suddenly to the fence, and Cellini, who
was less than a length behind him at the
time, had to be checked, eased back, and
taken to the outside. It is improbable
Cellini would have finished ahead of
Portfolio in any case, as the latter won
by a length, and was doing the better of
the pair at the finish. Interference, how-
ever, did occur, and the stewards stuck to
the letter of the law. Cellini, a member
of the same team as the Melbourne Cup
winner Colonus, is engaged in the Aus-
tralian Cup.
High Road was well backed for the
Bond Handicap, but lacked dash after
looking dangerous at the top of the
straight. He plodded into third place
and evidently is not as good as when he
won the V.R.C. St. Leger. Mac Rob
disappointed his backers by finishing only
fourth, but, as he met Portfolio 161 b.
worse than when the latter ran him to
a neck in the Bagot Handicap, he was
not disgraced.
The Vanquisher (by Portofino) won
the Federal Stakes in the style of a good
colt. One of the largest two-year-olds
in training, he led all the way down the
supposedly slow side of the track to win
from Lawrence and Precept. Sirius
showed up well in fourth position and
should improve. The Vanquisher was
ridden by J. O’Brien, who completed a
double on Athol Belle in the first Salis-
bury Welter. Sangallo showed improved
stamina by easily outstaying the hot
favorite, Veiled Promise, in the second
Salisbury Welter.
* * * *
While most backers are focusing their
attention on Hall Stand for the Don-
caster Handicap, Riverton is another
three-year-old that cannot well be over-
looked. His form early in the season
was somewhat disappointing, but with
61b. less than weight-for-age the style in
which he won the Villiers Stakes justi-
fied his trainer’s good opinion of him.
Handicapped for the Australia Day Han-
dicap he was placed within 161 b. of
Yaralla, who, when he met Hall Stand
in the Craven Plate in the spring, gave
the latter 171 b. and a bad beating.
* * * *
Six-year-old gelding Royal Lancer did
not win the Wellington Cup, for which
he was favorite, but as, with 9.9, he was
beaten only a head by Rakanui (8.9) in
2.30:1 for the mile and a half he must
be really good. Lou Rosa (9.3) was
third, and the twelve other runners in?
eluded Gladynev (8.8). It is regrettable
that shipping difficulties stand in the
way of a trip to Australia, as, while there
is only one Kindergarten in Maoriland,
there are others that would be sure to
pay their way in Australia.
* * * *
Brisbane Tattersall’s Club committee is
making an all-out effort to assist in sup-
pressing off-the-course betting. Members
have been warned that betting on the
club’s premises is totally prohibited and
that immediate expulsion will be the por-
tion of anyone disobeying this order.
Sounds as if there must be a strong anti-
bookmaker feeling in the club.
It is not surprising to read that, after
announcements as to Rimveil’s retirement,
he is to continue racing. Weight-for-age
horses will not be numerous in the
autumn, and, with a little uncertainty as
to Yaralla returning to his best form,
Rimveil’s prospects of picking up at least
one w.f.a. race, either in the autumn or
spring, should be excellent. After spring
racing there would still be time for Rim-
veil to do a short stud season. At six
years he will not be too old to strike his
earlier form. Dashing Cavalier has
recently run sufficiently well to show
what is possible for a horse of that age.
* * * *
Pamelus scored two seconds in the
Futurity Stakes, and Zonda has a similar
record. When beaten by High Caste in
1941 she had 9.4, and 8.12 when Burra-
bil (9.13) was too good for her last year.
Considering she had not raced for several
months her second in the Oakleigh Plate
was a really good performance, and gives
her a chance on Saturday next of im-
proving on her Futurity Stakes efforts.
* * * •
It is amusing, if somewhat wearisome
at times, to read the opinions of people
whose knowledge of the subject is limited
concerning keeping racing clean. It is
impossible to keep it absolutely spotless ;
but, so far as Sydney is concerned, it
was never much cleaner than at present.
Backers who have lost are always ready
to find fault, and, though at times there
may be grounds for suspicion, the
average growler, when pinned down to
“What did you see that was wrong, and
where did it happen?” can rarely adduce
anything to support his contention that
he did not get a run for his money.
* * * *
Bing Crosby did a broadcast to Aus-
tralia last week. Someone must have
told him that any subject outside race-
horses was of little interest to Austra-
lians, and his principal theme was Phar
Lap’s greatness. It was scarcely neces-
sary to tell us anything about that.
Most of his listeners would have been
more interested to listen to an explana-
tion of why it is that, while the younger
division fairly eat his crooning, many
lovers of old-time music are almost
murderous in their feelings towards him.
* * * *
It will interest Australians to learn that
fields of the size common in Sydney and
Melbourne are very unusual at meetings
in the State of New York. In figures
given by the “Thoroughbred Record” it
is shown that in 189 days’ racing in New
York last year 1428 races were run, and
there were 12,115 starters —an average of
less than nine a race. Twenty horses
were left at the post during the season,
and, as 13 of these could not get away
owing to the stalls of the machine fail-
ing to open, the money wagered on them
on the tote was refunded to ticket-holders.
The other seven were treated as starters,
as, though the machine functioned, they
refused to jump away. Of 140 jockeys
holding licenses 24 were suspended at
some time or other during the year.
* * * *
Chicago is not going short of racing
this year. Dates for the five clubs in the
metropolitan area were recently issued,
and provided for 157 days, commencing
on May 1 and ending on October 30.
Omitting Sundays, that means there will
be racing every day in Chicago for six
months.
Jimmy Dundee carried George Regan
along for five rounds and settled him in
the sixth. The badly-matched pair, both
10-stoners, put on the show at Leichhardt.
Briefer still was the Stadium bout
between lightweights Tommy Johns and
Ron Warner. For some mysterious
reason Warner was favorite. In the first
round he was pounded from pillar to
post; in the second a long right swing
landed flush on his chin, and finished
him for the night.
FOR ASCOT.
(At Rosehill.)
(Before acceptances.)
By “PILOT.”
Maiden Two-year-old Handicap:
Mayfowl, 1; Air Lord, 2; Denton,
3.
Novice Handicap: The Gambler,
1 ; Miss Leonard, 2 ; Courallie, 3.
Kingsford Smith Handicap;
Martheus, 1 ; Mannerheim, 2;
Usher, 3.
Ascot Turf Club Handicap : Wid-
den, 1 ; Mortine, 2 ; Cadger, 3.
Three-year-old Handicap: Babil-
lard, 1 ; Boorchief, 2 ; Head Chief
or Parthian, 3.
Mascot Handicap: Magi, 1 ;
Linemond, 2 ; Romero, 3.
Botany Welter: Fearless, 1 ;
Tel Asur, 2 ; Glendower, 3.
FUTURITY STAKES
SELECTIONS.
By Our Melbourne Representative.
ZONDA 1
Sun Valley 2
Millais 3


Lectures.
ST. JOHN AMBULANCE ASSOCIATION
CLASSES.
Enrol at 44 Margaret St., Sydney—Lecture Hall
Monday, March 1, 2 p.m. & 7 p.m. .. Home Nursing
Tuesday, March 2, 2 pan. & 7 pan. .. First Aid
Wednesday, March 3, 2 p.m hirst Aid
Wednesday, March 3, 7 pan. .. Advanced 1u st
Aid for Medallion and Label
Thursday. March 4, 7 pan First Aid
Friday, March 5, 7 p.m Home Nursing
King BW 6325 AO IF. Classes also in Suburbs.
U.-G. HOWES, General Secretary.
Women's Letters
From Melbourne
People who brave all weathers selling
buttons at the monthly street collections
that are the lifeblood of many of Mel-
bourne’s patriotic and charitable efforts
say the city is getting meaner and meaner.
Maybe it’s the taxation, or perhaps citi-
zens are becoming less sensitive about
being buttonless than in the early stages
of the war, when there weren’t so many
war jobs to keep people self-satisfied.
Button-sellers say that Allied troops are
their salvation —they give generously to
every cause. Many also throw in a little
advice about salesmanship. Incidentally,
our Allies are inundating city florists
with demands for roses, which are be-
coming difficult to supply—Melbourne
has been going off roses in recent years.
It is rare to see a really good rose now,
and, if this new demand stimulates their
cultivation, all should be grateful.
Women are getting together in local
groups to solve the problem of looking
after children too young for school while
mother is away during the day. Latest
day nursery is being started by a group
of housewives in the Caulfield-Elstern-
wick-Elwood district, and is situated on
an intersection of trams and trains from
several suburbs. A trained nurse and
kindergarteners will be in control, but
voluntary helpers to supply meals, etc.,
will be welcomed. Fruit and milk will
be part of the children’s diet, in addition
to the usual three meals. These local
kindergartens, several of which have
already been started, should help to re-
lieve the pressure on many small schools
for younger children which have been
flooded with enrolments this year.
Never was a matinee so well built up
as that of “Merry Widow” Gladys Mon-
crieff’s for the partially-blinded soldiers.
Even the ban on parties went down
before the necessity for gathering in
prizes for lucky envelopes and suchlike.
One of the best efforts was Mrs. Wallace
Mitchell’s at Menzies, when there was a
musical programme of breezy type to
gladden the heart before the serious work
began. Willing workers who had to their
credit perhaps the greatest success of last
year for the War Nurses’ Fund again
had come out and were strongly in evi-
dence at the Menzies party, promising
faithfully to sell the whole 2000 en-
velopes. Miss Moncrieff herself went
along and said a few words. With her
was John Brownlee’s sister. The Brookes
lady came, too. Both she and Mrs. Wal-
lace Mitchell have country homes at
Frankston.
While the Council for Women in War
Work was discussing with all gravity the
effects of the call-up of women univer-
sity students for tomato-canning, return-
ing students whose courses are starting
early were giving lighter first-hand im-
pressions to friends and neighbors. The
horrors of swollen hands and ankles were
feelingly described to add some spice
to the tale, but most agreed that they
had really enjoyed the experience and felt
better for early mornings and early nights
and the summer evenings spent eating
melons and boasting about the day’s
tally. Record-breakers, it appears, may
be of two kinds—the good sports who
bring up the tally by fair means and the
“Tomato Hogs” who corral the largest
and most-easily-stripped tomatoes. Among
results of the experiment are a first-hand
knowledge of factory conditions, sym-
pathy with factory girls and an interest
in improving the working conditions of
women.
Training future play-leaders is one of
the jobs of the Victorian National Fit-
ness Council. The council’s help has
been a boon to the organisers of the
movement for playground guides, which
has proved such a success, though it is
so far still a matter of small beginnings.
Other groups are finding that leaders
trained by the council are worth their
salt in boys’ clubs, kindergartens and
other youth centres, and are picking out
their most promising members to undergo
training. Curriculum has much in
common with the University’s Physical
Education course, but differs slightly in
that greatest emphasis is put on the
recreational side of physical training.
Children, leaders find, enjoy pretend-
ing to be pussycats or caterpillars more
than prosaically following instructions to
crawl on hands and knees. Interspersed
with physical jerks are little talks on what
oranges can do for the inside, and similar
health rules, which are lapped up by the
young, who trot home and instruct the
family.
Wounded men representing almost
every Allied service were among the
guests of Mrs. Russell Jackson last week.
The small party was primarily intended
for the wounded, but other friends were
there to help things along and to aid the
Florence Nightingale Fund. Guests were
entertained by Etta Bernard’s delightful
voice and two clever Air Force men
acting as singer and pianist respectively.
At another of last week’s parties William
Courtenay, the journalist, who was
guest of honor, entertained the English-
Speaking Union with a speech about
Britain’s part in the war.
The A.I.F. Women’s Association is
appealing for funds to carry on the good
work of looking after the dependants of
A.I.F. men who are in need of help or ad-
vice, or just a bit of friendliness, while
husbands and sons are fighting. Button
day for the cause will be on Feb. 26,
and in addition to the usual street stalls
a Soldiers’ Families’ Fair will be held in
the Town Hall. Highlights will be a mili-
tary band, a good cheer-up for any affair,
and lunch for Is. 3d., which should help
to ease the usual lunchtime crush for
one day at least. Tivoli vaudevilleans
will put on a show from time to time
during lunch, and, of course, the usual
cakes and used clothes and the like will
be for sale. As well as helping service
men’s wives in many other ways the
association does a good job bringing to-
gether relatives of prisoners of war to
discuss news and parcels. At the last
meeting an address was given by an offi-
cer escaped from Japanese hands who
brought the first-hand news that relatives
of imprisoned men are so keen to hear.
Picture, by Peter Fox, is of the Lavarack
lady, president of the association.
Winner of the Melba Scholarship Elsie
Morison, of Ballarat, feels that life is full
of wonderful things. At the final audi-
tion in the Assembly Hall at the week-end
she electrified her audience (packed to the
doors, for Melbourne loves these affairs)
with her knowledgeable rendering of
Mozart’s “Oh, come, do not delay,” and
then confirmed their opinion in “The
Wren,” by Benedict. Miss Morison said
that she had been singing seriously for
only one year and was taught by her
mother, who teaches music in Ballarat.
The latest Melba Scholarship winner is
at the stage which Dr. Floyd, one of the
judges, said was one at which a student
was full of potentialities. Year after year
the younger clever girls are chosen for
this prize, for it is felt that they can be
more easily moulded in the right way
and have less to unlearn. Queenslander
Jessica Griffiths won the much-sought-
after J. C. Williamson Scholarship.
A family which has had a month of
good news is that of the late Dr. E. B.
Heffernan. Mrs. Heffernan, profession-
ally Dr. Hilda Greenshields, has just
heard from her son Bill in England that
he passed out of the Empire Air School
in Canada a sergeant-bombardier, and
then almost on top of this gained his
wings and is now pilot-officer. Bill was
champion high jumper of Melbourne
Uni. and Victoria, and held records for
Australia. The other Heffernan son, Pat,
otherwise Edward, has had the pleasure
of having his portrait of Miss Dorothy
Seabrook bought for Castlemaine Gal-
lery. Gallery purchasers spoke of his
“modern” outlook on art. He is a busy
war worker these days.
Red Cross seems to be lucky in its
choice of hospital visitors. Latest ap-
pointed to this job, who goes to Bone-
gilla as successor to Mrs. Boyd Moriarty,
is Betty Stephens, daughter of Dr. Carl
Stephens. Since their father’s death, the
Stephens girls, Betty and Roma, and their
mother have been living in their country
home in Healesville, near the Maroon-
dah dam. Betty Stephens has travelled
and has a pleasant personality. Mrs.
Boyd Moriarty, who has hied her to
Northern Australia, won golden opinions
when she was here and at Bonegilla.
From Sydney
Another of Sydney’s old homes has
joined the army. It is Oak Lodge,
Trelawney-street, Woollahra, and where
could be found a more euphonious-
sounding address than that? The house,
built when life moved in a more gracious
and spacious measure than it does today,
has large and lofty rooms. Many of
these must now be turned into dormi-
tories. Some of these will have five,
some eight beds, on which each night from
now on members of the A.A.M.W.S.
will seek well-earned repose. The ac-
quiring of this roomy house will central-
ise living accommodation for the
A.A.M.W.S. in Sydney. Many of the
girls are from the country and other
States, and formerly have had to “live
out.” Oak Lodge will house 40 girls all
the time, and can put up, in an
emergency, twice that number. Captain
Joyce Snelling, Assistant Controller of
A.A.M.W.S., now longs only for a piano,
around which to group the furniture in
what was originally the drawing-room.
Lieut. R. Harvey will be officer-in-charge,
Peggy Sager, of Maoriland, Rachel
Cameron, of Queensland, and Richard
Farrell, of Sydney, were three talented
young people of the Kirsova ballet
season. This had as festive an opening
as is possible under war conditions. The
Conservatorium was crowded. Ballet-
lovers who used to hover fondly around
Her Majesty’s and the Royal on the
never-to-be-forgotten Pavlova nights, and
those who were pillars of the De Basil
season, were again to be seen, though
in depleted numbers. “The Revolution
of the Umbrellas” was the new work of
the evening. Helene Kirsova has built
this blithe structure on a Danish fairy
story. The music was composed by
Henry Krips.
The Legacy Club was the beneficiary
of the seven performances, and bookings
were very good throughout. The Gover-
nor and Lady Wakehurst were in the
first night’s audience and were received
by Dr. and Mrs. Erik Fischer (Helene
Kirsova) and president of Legacy W.
Spooner and Mrs. Spooner. The Rear-
Admiral Muirhead-Goulds, Mrs. Bertie
Kelly, the Hon. Henrietta Loder and
Peter Lubbock were among the noted.
Everybody loved the story of the two
young sister-ballerinas, one somewhat
shorter than the other. In the excite-
ment taller sister got off with the wrong
dress. But this did not daunt the ward-
robe mistress, who swiftly shortened the
longer frock with tacks.
This pretty girl is Mary Barber, who is
doing a full-time job as almoner at Rachel
Forster Hospital. Mary is the daughter
of the F. G. Barbers, of Abbotsford
Point, and she has just announced her
engagement to Captain Frank O’Brien
(at present overseas). He is a son of the
J. F. O’Briens, of West Maitland.
The N.S.W. Bush Nursing Association
sends out an SOS for nurses. It makes
the appeal on behalf of the parents, wives
and families of the men who are fight-
ing. For one Bush Nursing Centre to
close in normal times would have been
a misfortune felt by all in the 50-miles
radius which one nurse’s work covers.
For one to close now is a national
calamity. And not one, but ten have had
to put up shutters because of shortage
of nurses and of domestic staff to help
in B.N.A. emergency hospitals. The
Bush Nurse works in districts far from
medical aid, the nearest doctor and fully-
equipped hospital normally being 50 and
sometimes 60 miles distant.
City and suburban dwellers with doc-
tors at the end of a telephone line, with
hospitals, clinics, chemists and dentists
just round the corner, cannot begin to
understand just what the Bush Nurse
means to the people at such far-flung
outposts as Wanaaring (118 miles from
Bourke), Lightning Ridge and Mount
Hope. She keeps an eye on the children
at the school in the district. When
trouble comes to the homestead, the
nurse is sent for. She renders first aid,
and if the case is dangerous she takes
charge until the flying doctor arrives to
take the patient off to the nearest regular
hospital.
Himself going off to fight felt that the
wife would be all right. Hadn’t she the
nurse there at the centre to stand by?
But in ten districts there is no longer a
nurse. Probably not one woman in any
of these districts will tell her menfolk
this. They will just go on working night
and day looking after the stock and
crops as best they can, keeping an eye
on the rationed petrol so that sufficient
will be saved to go in to the doctor it
anything happens, and praying that all
will be well until the centre reopens.
A good citizen who helped to build
healthy babies for Australia was Mrs.
Elizabeth McMillan Davidson. She was
the founder of the Australian Mother-
craft Society (Plunket system), of which
knight Truby King, of Maoriland, was
the parent and patron. Her father was
knight William McMillan ; her husband
was Pilot Dudley Davidson, killed in an
air crash shortly after their marriage.
Mrs. Davidson served during the 1914-18
war as a nurse in New Guinea and
France. She died last week at her Edge-
cliff home.
A veteran Sydney theatregoer last
week bemoaned the passing of Her
Majesty’s Theatre, now a Woolworth
store. He said: “When will we ever
again have such a wide and graceful en-
trance, lit by glittering chandeliers whose
lustres reflected such rainbow gleams?
Think of it on Pavlova and grand opera
nights, with the red carpet flowing on to
the pavement and the handsome stair-
way garlanded with flowers! No,” he re-
flected, “Sydney shouldn’t have let it go.
With it was lost a link with the more
leisured, the more elegant past!” To
wash down his sorrow, he ordered his
favorite cocktail, couldn’t get it, so
gloomily put up with a gin and squash.
No more will Sydney know the bright
and attractive Mrs. “Scotty” Allen. She
died as the result of an accident last week
at Palm Beach, where she has been mak-
ing her home. This had expressed the
artist that she was, in every sense. Some
of the most admired woodcuts on the
walls were her own work. Mrs. Allen
was the wife of Wing-Commander G. U.
“Scotty” Allen. One of Mrs. Allen’s
war-time activities was air-spotting. Her
untimely passing has caused widespread
sorrow.
If every lass loves a sailor, every sailor
loves a dance. When C.U.S.A. opened
the doors of its Naval Club in Young-
street there were to be three dance nights
a week; then the guests asked for a
fourth, so another one was added. Now
there are so many guests coming to dance
that the original hall will not accommo-
date them. So the main lounge will be
used for dancing, and the former library
will be turned into a reading- and writ-
ing-room. To help with the cost of the
alterations there is to be a swimming
party at Mrs. D. Maclurcan’s, Shell Cove-
road, Neutral Bay, on February 18. Mrs.
J. Briton Langdon and Audrey Beckett
have already handed in nearly £36, the
result of a gymkhana.
Before the opening speech almost every
picture in the show of five-guinea paint-
ings blushed with a rosy-red seal. Sales,
according to the artists, were remarkably
good for this time of the year. There
was a full house at the Macquarie Gal-
leries for the opening, president of the
Society of Artists Sydney Ure Smith
being among the keenly interested. Many
of the pictures are by beginning artists,
though the more mature brush and pencil
display their charm, too. Anne Wein-
holt’s “Queensland River” drew warm
praise. But Sydney art-lovers, listening
to the prologue, received a shock when
told that sales of art in Melbourne over-
topped those of this city.
An attractive gift for a small girl or
boy is the Red Cross Seal booklet. The
Red Cross supply the seals, and the art
students of East Sydney Tech, do the
rest. The pages are tied together with a
knot of narrow red, white and blue
ribbon. The cover is of parchment ruled
in red, with the red cross in the lower
right-hand corner.


THE
i 3
I
JOHN LYSaCHT
(mustb/hih) pty. ltd.
S/DNEX MELBOURNE ■ BRISBANE • ADELAIDE • EREMANTLE
Jo7*
HOTEL METROPOLE
Bent, Phillip and Young Streets, Sydney.
m
! Hltll
ifiiiii
mm
ill
■' ••••
Modern high-ch*ss accommodation
at a moderate tariff. Hot and cold
water and telephone in all rooms.
Rooms with private Bathrooms
available. Meals at moderate rates —
unexcelled cuisine—Dining Rooms,
Grill Room, Banquet Room and
Wintergarden, together with a first-
class orchestra.
ROOMS-ONLY RATES.
Single Rooms from 7/- per night
Double Rooms from 13/- per night
Telegrams, Cables and Wireless:
“METROPOLE,” Sydney.
Telephones: 8W2061 (9 lines)
86363 (4 lines)
PROVIDES THE
SEWERAGE
SA3i.ii; COMFORT AND SAFETY AS CITY
WITHOUT ANY WATER SURREY.
Besides Typhoid, Dysentery and serious diseases, many minor ’’closets!
Septic Cuts, Sore Eyes. Chills and Colds can be traced to unhygienic closets.
AND
Cuts, Sore Eyes, Chills and Corns can ue “'1
THE HYGEIA DISSOLVENATOR
IS A COMPLETE SEEF-CONTAINED SANITARY SYSTEM IN ITSEEI
IS NOT JUST A MODIFIED CEOSET PAN.
All matter is dissolved and sterilised in the machine and runs off into
It eliminates closet pans and saves sanitary rates.
IT PREVENTS THE SPREAD OF THE BEOWFEY PEST.
There is no emptying or unpleasant jobs. Any handyman t-n insta
NO S'MEEES. NO FEIES. NO GERMS.
,)y "" s ““■
HYGEIA SANITARY Co. Pty. Ltd Telephone 81033.
W B extra „ _
Obtainable direct from ns or all leading stores, pastoral funis etc. . gens a
k ri Mclnerney aMCc. UA, ’ _
SMOKE-OH!
The Feminine Leg.
The feminine leg, the feminine leg.
Far brighter in prospect than bottle or
keg.
From the darkness of centuries flung into
day,
A nd kicking its draperies gaily away;
The feminine leg, the feminine leg,
Breathe it sighingly, sweetly, softly, I
beg;
Unshackled by skirt and untrammelled by
trouser,
A joy to the man and a woe to the
wowser ;
The feminine leg, the feminine leg.
Be it slender or rhomboid or shaped like
an egg.
Whether stumping or striding or trotting
or tripping —
In any old aspect perfectly ripping!
Arnold Wall.
4 1
O for the day when there will be a
shortage of shortages!
* * * *
“To be a lovely bride it is necessary, of
course, to take time by the forelock.”
— “Women’s Weekly.”
And get a ’groom.
The Biter Bitten.
“I think Mabel’s awful, don’t you?
She hasn’t returned the fashion-book 1
lent her six weeks ago.”
“But you know Mabel, dear! In six
years she’ll make some of those fashions
up and think they’m ala mode !
“People are dreadful. Gertrude’s got a
book of mine, too. She’s had it for two
months. I hardly know what to do with-
out it. It’s an instructive book”
“A.R.P. directions?”
“Oh, dear me, no. It’s called How
To Hold Your Man. And look at Helen.
She borrowed my ration-book last week
and I hear she left town last night. I
think people who don’t return borrowed
books have no conscience. Well, good-
bye. I’ll ring you sometime. Have I
your number?”
“Yes, pet. You wrote it inside that
book up there on your shelf. Remem-
ber? That’s the novel I lent you eighteen
months ago.”
Eve.
•t*
“The executive of the Farmers and Settlers’
Association also decided to protest against the
Government as being unnecessary.”
~-“N.Q. Register.”
Hear, hear!
•F •&
“A plain dinner frock that you no longer
wear can be cut short, electrified by candy-
striped sleeves.” — Woman’s paper.
But won’t the switch cause a shock?
"V '!• v >i*
“After the baby arrived Spencer found that
nobody gives a father any credit.”
— Woman’s paper serial.
Tradespeople will protest.
*2* *!♦ 4"
“While the Japanese were attacking and
air battles were going on overhead those boys
were landing and taking off their ’planes simul-
taneously on the same landing strip.”
—Adelaide “Advertiser.”
A difficult manoeuvre, but good tactics.
The Japs wouldn’t know whether they
were coming or going.
•J* *2*
“A girl can trust a married man more these
days than a single man because the latter like
to boast about their conquests.”
It’s a case of wed men tell no tales.
“The entire army organisation is being ruth-
lessly sifted.” — Army Minister Forde.
Yair, but how big are the holes in the
sieve?
Account Books.
“Every housewife will find a little account
book very useful.” — Woman’s paper.
Maria wanted me to help her find out
how she had come to spend fifteen shil-
lings more than she had possessed.
“You’ll find it all in this book,” she said.
“Here you are.”
In the page at which she opened it
the entries ran: “Lamb, 3s. 1 ; “Tel.
ZX 2741 —Hilda”; “Tell Mrs. Gabbe
about Mrs. K.” ; “Splendid Theatre, Thurs.
aft.” ; “Corsets, £2 12s. 6d.” ; “Telph. VM
5468.” Then there was what looked like
a cryptogram with figures and the words
“purl,” “plain” and “knit” interlarded,
and a mention of “Flour, two eggs and
I cup passionfruit pulp” and “Socks 8.”
“What does the ‘B’ mean anyway?”
I asked. “Not eight bob for a pair of
socks!”
“That was the size, stupid!” snapped
Maria. “No ; I didn’t get the corsets.
That was the price they were marked in
the shop.”
“Well, there’s the lamb ; and over on
the next page there’s ‘Honey, Johnson’s,
4s.’ Surely you wouldn’t get four bobs’
worth of honey!” I said.
“No, it isn’t honey at all,” explained
Maria. “Someone told me I would be
able to get it at Johnson’s corner shop,
but they had none. I remember the four
shillings was to pay off the lay-by on
a girdle, but I think I paid the milkman
with it.”
At this stage, after stumbling over two
more telephone numbers, I resigned. I
said I didn’t see how it was possible to
make up an account from the figures
supplied.
“And you’re supposed to know all
about bookkeeping!” said Maria scorn-
fully. “Anyway, as you can’t help me
to find out where it went, it’s very simple
for you to square matters by giving me
that fifteen shillings. I’m short.”
“But you’re not out fifteen shillings —
not on the wrong side,” I protested.
“It’s just like you, Aitchem, to take a
mean point like that!” snapped Maria.
H.M.
1066 and After.
“William was charged with assaulting
Harold and blacking his eye.”
—Court case.
That hist’ry will repeat itself
We hereby testify.
For this new Bill the Conqueror
Got Harold in the eye.
B.B.
Wouldn’t It?
On Saturdays, when I am free,
An early start appeals to me.
/ like, when rising from my bed,
To feel a long day lies ahead.
Aye! Eager as a growing pup
I like to be abroad by seven.
But where’s the sense in getting up
When pubs don’t open till eleven ?
P.M.
Knocback.
“Poor conceited fool, he imagined that she
was responding to his advances until she brought
him to his senses with a resounding smack on
the face.” — Magazine story.
Convinced that he had lots of “it,"
And hoping for a heap of fun,
He thought that he had made a hit —
Till she made one !
NAT.
Unlikely Interviews.
“Yair, I’m a hundred years old toda>
and 1 feel like 150. Never felt worse in
me life! No, I don’t want to see 105. I
wish to hell someone’d take me out in
the backyard and give me a permanent
anaesthetic with a length of iron pipe.
What do I think of the girls of today?
What the blazes does anyone care what
1 think? Anyway, F haven’t been inter-
ested in ’em now for about five years.
The only thing I can attribute me long
life to is the fact that I didn’t happen
to wriggle out before now.”
“Of course I spoke against the bill!
My attitude is certain to please the
majority of my constituents, and you
must remember that my seat’s a particu-
larly shaky one. Yes, I know the bill’s
a cert, to be carried by a big majority,
and a good thing, too. But there’s
nothing like making your marble good
with the only ones that count.”
“Mai war work entails no sacrifaice,
reallay. In fact, Ai make quate a good
thing, what with exes, and one thing and
another. Ai don’t know how Ai shall
evah settle down again to a boring laife
of parties, receptions and othah social
fripperies. Ai ask onlay one thing: to
be able to do mai job without being pes-
tered bay press photographers.”
“Yes. I did hear some woman saying
that my little girl should have got first
place in the elocution section, but really
I think the girl who won it gave by far
the better performance. She has natural
dramatic ability and is so expressive. My
little girl was too stilted and self-con-
scious. Undoubtedly the judge gave the
right decision.”
“Now just ask yourself the question.
She starts first time up at tens, the stable’s
well on it an’ we clean up, see? Next
start she shrivels to fives; we push a
wad on that Jack Rice couldn’t’ve jumped
over in his prime, an’ she lands the bacon
again, see? Today she’s sandwiched an’
finishes in the bunch with her mouth
wide open, an’ the hoop has to have his
biceps massaged when he gets in. She
was 6 to 4 on, an’ it was a weak field.
What do the stipes think ice was made
for, anyway?”
“Aye, it’s a gr-rand line o’ beesness
to preach in public aboot the boss an’
the meen gettin’ togither, but what I tell
the boys on the q.t. is anither matter, y’
ken. Losh! How long would an offee-
cial of a meelitant union last in his job
if he didna’? And if there was peace
in the eendustry the pooblic would never
hear ma name mentioned. What? Am
I ever thinkin’ o’ goin’ back tae Scitland?
Dinna fash yersel’. Ah’m on too saft
a cop.”
“Yes, there is a serious shortage of
whisky for the bar trade. Wouldn’t I
be a goat if I didn’t arrange it when I
can get 355. a bottle after hours from
chaps in khaki? The locals are opti-
mists if they think I’m going to open a
bottle and dish it out in nips and double-
headers and get only a quid for some-
thing that costs me about ten bob. Boy,
I hope the war lasts another ten years!”
Bo.


THE OTHER FELLOW'S MIND
The contributor placed first is paid
4Jd. per line; all others 2Jd. per line.
National Park Reserves
I doubt whether the proposed reserve of
210,000 acres in the Grose Valley catch-
ment on the Blue Mountains (N.S.W.)
will prove of much value. It is in poor
country, some of the poorest in N. S.
Wales, and even now has a heavy per-
centage of the straight timber hacked out
of it. It will be impossible to carry pro-
lific fauna on it unless some of the square
miles of rich land around Mt. Wilson,
Fomah or Bell or portions of the Kur-
rajong are also bought up. If this isn’t
done, hundreds of acres of soil will have
to be improved and large stretches of
grasslands laid down for the fauna. Even
300 ’roos and wallabies would starve on
it at the present time.
This area is typical of all other national
reserves in the State. All are poor sand-
stone country. Best of the lot is
National Park, which has a low percen-
tage of basalt. The fact that you rarely
see ’roos, wallabies or wombats in num-
bers in either National Park or Kuring-
gai Chase is sure testimony that they
know they can’t get a living in either
spot, and no food is provided to induce
them to take up residence. In hundreds
of spots you can draw a straight line
down where the Wynamatta shale or
basalt soil ends and the sandstone begins.
The line is a boundary fence with good
cultivation on one side and poor sand-
stone on the other.
By way of contrast, U.S.A. set aside
some of her most fertile districts for
national park reserves. All provide the
attraction of abundant wild life as well
as scenic beauty. Between 1924 and
1938, wild animals on them increased by
150 per cent. Where areas become over-
populated and damage to crops, death
by starvation or speedy erosion threatens,
adjustments are made to protect both
game and forage.
And America isn’t stopping at remov-
ing the causes of destruction of wild
life. She’s out to devise ways and means
to protect and produce increasing
variety. Building dams, impounding
waters, providing nesting and resting
places for migratory birds are some of
her aims. Democratic benefits from
national forests can be measured by the
fact that before the war 38,000,000
people were visiting these parks annu-
ally. Adjacent districts reaped 250,000,000
dollars a year from the passing popula-
tion. You can’t do things like that on
sandstone country. National reserves
that are going to do justice to this Com-
monwealth’s forestry and fauna should
be in fair proximity to Sydney on soil
of the Wynamatta shale or basalt type.
—C. Haven (N.S.W.).
Lost Catchment Area
For sheer stupidity regarding forestry
values you can’t beat Australian Govern-
ments. The calamity that’s happened in
the Warrumbungle Ranges is a case in
point.
There has been wholesale clearing of
timber right up the steep slopes. In con-
sequence, enormous erosion has set in
and is proceeding apace, thereby ensuring
heavy grazing losses for hundreds of
square miles and a succession of hum-
dinger droughts in the years ahead. Yet,
rising straight from the plains and with
splendid gorges along their ramparts,
these ranges should have provided a
future catchment area for the north-west
of the State.
Why can’t the Government create a
board of experts who will give the yea
or nay in such cases? — Seahaven
(N.S.W.).
Wool After the War
Many amateur economists are putting
forward schemes for controlling the wool
trade after the war. Most of these
assume that the British Government can
be persuaded to buy the whole clip for
a further period of years, as it has
done, as a war-time measure, for the
duration of hostilities and one year after.
It is unlikely that the British authori-
ties would consider such a proposal.
They will have their hands very full as
it is, and the Yorkshire manufacturers
will be dead against it. If they did con-
sent to mind the baby it would only be
at a substantial profit.
The position as I see it under the
National Security Regs, is that all wool
on being shorn becomes the property of
the Australian Government, which has
it appraised and transferred to the British
Government. That is, the wool remains
in Australia and the Commonwealth
acquires funds in London. The Com-
monwealth distributes the Australian
equivalent of the London funds amongst
the growers, and there the matter ends
as far as we are concerned. The over-
seas balance is cancelled out in various
ways, as it would be if the wool had
been shipped to private buyers as in pre-
war days.
Everyone assumes that the British Gov-
ernment will be able to resell the wool
eventually at cost or better.
If, when this scheme is wound up, we
are to embark on another one and sell
the clip to some Government, why can’t
it be our own Government? Britain
credits us only with the value of our
wool at a prearranged price, hoping to
reimburse herself as trade comes back
to normal, so why can’t the Common-
wealth fix the price and credit herself
against the value of the wool, thereby
keeping the whole transaction in her
own hands and pocketing any profit?
Personally I am not in favor of any
such scheme, but a lot of people seem
to be, and it is to them I put the fore-
going suggestion.
Another point that requires more con-
sideration than it has had so far is how
"I'll just water the marigolds before we go."
to reconcile any sort of control with the
“access-to-raw-materials” clause in the
Atlantic Charter to which Australia lends
enthusiastic support—H. D. (N.S.W.).
Wool and Post-war Trade
* /t-) nii/virv
A. Woolly (B 13 /E «) insiders
we should revert to pre « p y
this war has been won. e V
should sell wool at public auction prices,
and continues: Avoidance ot over-
stocking and a large carryover is what
everyone,connected with the wool trade
requires. That is exa ty P
control will effect. P ” ce and
planned production by the producers co-
operating with the Government can pre-
vent a glut or a shortage. The old sto y
ot droughts and floods must be torgo-
ten; science of production and distn -
tion must take its place.
Mr. Woolly mentions that substitutes
were competing with natural wool pre-
war. To offset this competition post-
war, it will be necessary to size up our
imports and reciprocate as far as pos-
sible. There is another vital problem
that must be solved—the problem of de-
fence. Our open spaces must be filled
up with people, not sheep. The problem
of defending Australia cannot be solved
by America ; it is our job to do that.
Those statesmen who failed to induce
settlers of the right type to settle here are
the same individuals who are shouting
for assistance from America and Eng-
land to-day. Australia has solved the
problem of wool production. The main
problem today is defence. —Stephen
Carley (N.S.W.).
Allies and. Guests
So the Americans are eager to see our
back country and would like to be guests
on Australian farms (B. 27/1/’43). On
the advice of a Sydney weekly (not The
Bulletin) we wrote to American head-
quarters in Sydney just before Christmas,
offering to accommodate a couple of
Americans over the holidays and promis-
ing visits round our district —on the
Gwydir River (N.S.W.). From that day
to this we haven’t had any reply. And
we have sheep, cattle, wheat and prickly
pear.— Bingara Bob (N.S.W.).
The Direction of Agriculture
Back in 1940 a few earnest souls,
really interested even then in getting on
with the war effort and considering them-
selves entitled to opinions on the subject,
advocated the setting-up of a Federal
Directorate of Agriculture. They were
howled down in all directions—by poli-
ticians, by stodgy bureaucrats afraid of
offending their political bosses, by agri-
cultural scientists incapable of facing up
to realities. In 1942 the idea was brought
forward again from another quarter and
apparently met with a better reception.
But did either set of sponsors visualise
the appointment of a politician to the
job? A politician with neither academic
qualifications nor practical experience in
agriculture, but with a long, unhappy
record of muddled administration. Alter-
native appointees would have been
internationally-known agricultural scien-
tists of proven administrative ability.—
Ag. Sci. (Q.).
Service Men and Politics
As a result of that letter (B. 27/1/’43)
I have had inquiries about our move-
ment from all over the place. On the
morning of Feb. 6 letters came from
Mt. Burr (S.A.) and Clayfield (Q.), as
well as a bundle from Victoria. The
previous day’s mail brought inquiries
from Gympie (Q.), Inverell (N.S.W.) and
Launceston (Tas.) and the usual packet
from nearer home. Two things have
struck me—(l) the wide interest in our
movement and (2) the attention that your
back page ' evidently receives from
readers.—W. B. Edwards, Hon. Secre-
tary, United Ex-Servicemen’s Political
As^ciati
p erhaps Mother Knows Best
lessons wkhin a week> not from
Russia or even America, but from the
Qld Lad lanted so firmly in the North
§ SQ r J/ not optimistic bought to think
they wiU be followed here .
pj rst CO mes from Ashington Colliery,
Northumberland, where a Production
c omm ittee, representing management
and men> has been formed to pep up
ou tput, settle disputes on the spot and
j ssue certificates to men exceeding their
quota .
Second comes from North Derbyshire
Colliery, where both management and
men have urged that absentee miners be
ca p ed up .
Third is for wowsers, and comes from
Worcester. A vicar at Evesham regularly
holds services in the local pubs and in-
variably has a beer with the landlord
a ft e rwards.
Incidentally, Ashington Colliery, the
biggest in England, runs its own farm of
6000 aC res and has one of the best Ayr-
shire herds in the country ; it supplies
t h e me n with milk, vegetables, meat,
butter and eggs.—Jesmond (Vic.).
N.Q. Profiteers
I wonder if Allied soldiers know that
their spending has turned some of our
small shopowners into profiteers?
I saw a soldier pay £3 12s. for a dozen
plain white handkerchiefs which he said
he was going to send home to his mother.
A fair pre-war price was 3s. a dozen.
Our visitors are paying up to 21s. for a
watermelon, and needless to say they get
nearly all the melons that are for sale
in this district. The same applies to
many other articles.
According to the papers the Govern-
ment was going to do dreadful things to
profiteers. Its arm doesn’t reach into the
Far North, apparently. --Bennie Bennett
The New Order
A “new order” has been promised at
the conclusion of the world upheaval;
but it seems to me that any great evolu-
tionary change in life must be prefaced
by a change in the spiritual or mental life
of the individuals comprising that nation.
The spirit of selfishness must be replaced
by the desire to work for the common
good.
In the civilian life of this country the
spirit of selfishness stalks abroad. Graft
rears its head in various places ; hoard-
ing and panic buying defeat restrictions
deemed necessary for the nation’s wel-
fare ; propaganda for purely selfish ends
walks the path that truth should tread ;
and politicians guide our destinies on
strictly party lines.
The magnificent unselfishness of our
fighting men and women is in direct
contrast to this sorry spectacle.
Education in right thinking seems to
me to be the only hope of realising in
the not-too-distant future mankind’s hope
of a permanent “new order.” We have
seen what Hitler has done in Germany
in a generation by maleducation ; also
what Wilhelm II achieved by somewhat
similar methods. Now let the leaders
of the world show what can be done
by education along decent lines —lines
laid down by the great Nazarene teacher.
—Veritas (Q.).
The Tartshop and Its Tenants
“They are screaming to get to the tart-
shop.” So James, M.H.R., is reported
as interjecting in the course of the rowdy
resumption-of-session proceedings in the
Federal House on 27/1/’43, “they”
being Oppositionists. It’s a boomerang
gibe, and a few questions are pertinent.
Isn’t the James party “screaming” to keep
itself in the tartshop and everyone else out?
Doesn’t the James party give many Aus-
tralians the impression that the tartshop is the
most sacrosanct institution on Australian soil
and that it is the supreme duty of a Labor
Government to defend it to the last ranting
breath of the last Labor ranter against any
possible infiltration by the slave troops of the
“capitalist” enemy?
Did the James party get into the tartshop by
the straightforward, do-or-die assault of its
forces, backed by the massed might of the
Australian people?
On the contrary, didn’t the James party,
having failed of a majority in both Houses at
the 1940 election, get into the tartshop by per-
mission of two “Independents”?
Having thus gained possession, what moral
or political right has the James party, at this
critical juncture in Australia’s history, to make
the tartshop a close preserve for itself?
Is not the James party running counter to
the desire of the majority of the Australian
people that the tartshop should be opened to
the barred-outs?
How can the James party, appealing con-
tinually for the unity of all Australians in
waging the war against the Jap and German
barbarians, honestly deny barred-out Austra-
lians, through their elected representatives,
access to the tartshop?
Can the James party square that glaring
inconsistency and small-minded selfishness with
its vehement appeals to all sections of the
Australian people for full cooperation in the
prosecution of the war and with the stress its
chief spokesmen lay on the desperate position
of the Commonwealth and the urgent need for
an all-in war effort?
—Roswil (N.S.W.).
Income Tax
When Maoriland recently took a leaf
out of Australia’s book and allowed
the taxgatherer to put his fingers
into the pay envelope (though only to
the extent of requiring employers to de-
duct from wages enough to meet taxes
overdue) nobody cheered, and there were
some groans. The Wellington Chamber
of Commerce had a discussion in the
course of which an old and much-re-
spected member said that such larks ran
counter to the spirit and principle of the
Truck Act. He had no sympathy with
defaulting taxpayers, but he didn’t want
to see statutory rights whittled away.
The M.L. Associated Chambers of
Commerce are going to take the
matter up, and I wish them luck.
Here in Australia we’ve got to
the stage where, in effect, the tax-
gatherer receives wages and salaries and
pays out what’s left after his demands
are satisfied. An incautious suggestion
that the basis of income tax be shifted
to current income instead of last year’s
seems likely (from all I read in the pub-
lic prints) to encourage the taxmaster to
collect this year’s taxation concurrently
with last year’s. And should that be
tolerated a move to collect next year s
taxation concurrently as well may be
anticipated.— Taxes (N.S.W.).


rjiiii
WWA
wA
AmZyA,
Am,
Am
Am
m.
i
wmm.
mm
mm-
WA,
■
wmm
zmA.
ZAm
WA
mm#/
AAWzm
mm
m.
A
yW/AW / '
mm
wr
WlMmKmm
' : :,, : /v-y Ay: A'A
mmm
m
m
i
i
* m<
Wm
Am
m.
■m.
WAA&
Services
COHMUMICATIOHS
sgisr sm,CE
%SS! Sno?wS“ s»v,ce
;s^sk
{SSK? bSScast M CE« EK
own^«^ c °lKJ* ■n° NS _.
harconi SCHOOL
Kffi h“K"
v.r" ONS
DEVELOPMENT
