

GRAPE VINEGAR
The Bulletin
*The Bulletin,** VoL 64.—N0. 3285
Wednesday, January 27, 1943
Price 6d.
" a * '‘ : ' e t,en ®ral rest Office, Sydney. N.S.W., Australia, for Traßsm<s>!on by Post as a Newspaper.
Seppelts
KING ALFRED’S STATUE AT WINCHESTER.
the national heroes of the British
||| wtjßWfe
appear to become, by some curious process, a
sary to mention Kins Arthur rLrLm
should be raised in city so rich m historical
•if repellingtL
is the story, during his period of exile from his
country’s enemies, of the burnt cakes. His work
hence it is well to recall that he codified the laws
notions of justice derived from the Mosaic
Scriptures and the Gospel. He established
schools and perhaps Oxford. He invited men
of learning and piety from France, entrusting
.1 • i • ii
them with important educational posts. He
*
himself took in hand the translation into the
popular or vulgar tongue of the “De Consola-
tione” of Boethius, the “History of the World”
by Orosius, St. George’s “Pastoral” and the
Venerable Bede’s “History of the Church.”
Into these works he introduced a few sensible
comments and expositions of his own. These
efforts are held as constituting the foundation of
English prose literature. He died in 901 at the
age of 53, and his millenary was appropriately
celebrated in 1901.


Learn
Journalism
at HONE
This Book FREE to YOU!
STOTT’S CORRESPONDENCE COLLEGE.
100 Russell Street, Melbourne.
CUT HERE AND MAIL
Please send, without obligation, your New Free
Booklet explaining how to Write lor Profit, a*
advertised in the Sydney “Bulletin »
My Name
My Address
S.B. 143
The Red Page
THE BAD COMPANION.
“Do I detect,” asked Mr. Gallagher,
“the word sour on the first page of that
novel you are reading?”
“You should never judge a novel by
its first page,” said Mr. Shean. “But you
have hit the hero on the head. We are
dark and rather sallow and long-faced
and inclined to be sour.”
“If my eyes do not deceive me,” said
Mr. Gallagher, “we are ‘inclined to be
sour’ twice in the opening paragraph.
On page 2 we are ‘particularly sour about
this Gretley job.’ We are not, I hope,
sour on page 3 also?”
“Merry as a bird there,” said Mr.
Shean. “Except that we are ‘booked
for stinking Gretley.’ However, on page
4, when we slump into that Gretley
coach at St. Pancras, we are ‘feeling
sour as vinegar.’ ”
“I believe they are putting water in
the beer,” said Mr. Gallagher, “but I
can't say that I myself have yet felt sour
four times in three pages and stinking
once. Who is our happy author?”
“None other,” replied Mr. Shean,
“than our jovial old friend Mr. J. B.
Priestley, who once wrote The Good
Companions.”
“Starve the lizards and stone the
beetles!” cried Mr. Gallagher, “it is not
six months since I pleaded with Mr.
Priestley on my bended knees to stop re-
forming the world and write me some
novels.”
“In that case,” said Mr. Shean, “you
have much to answer for. Mr. Priestley
has written a novel. It is not he who is
sour on three pages and stinking on one,
but the hero of Blackout in Gretley
(Heinemann ; Moore’s Bookshop), who,
having the name of Humphrey Neyland,
an old family tragedy in the background
and an interesting job chasing spies in
war-time England, is naturally pheno-
menally glum.”
“Ah,” said Mr. Gallagher. “War-time
England. Then I will bet you my boots
(which in any case have ersatz soles)
that, in spite of having writen a novel,
Mr. Priestley is still reforming the world.”
“Your boots, such as they are,” said
Mr. Shean, “are yours. We must not
assume that Humphrey is the author’s
mouthpiece ; it is he, not Mr. Priestley,
who is so full of sourness and love for
all mankind ; but Humphrey is certainly
a whale on reforming us.”
“What’s his line?” asked Mr. Gal-
lagher.
“Colonel Blimp,” said Mr. Shean.
“Trite, I grant you,” said Mr. Gal-
lagher. “But not true. I thought Mr.
Priestley had more sense.”
“Mr. Priestley,” replied Mr. Shean, “is
undoubtedly an eminent literary gentle-
man. But Humphrey, I almost suspect,
is a reader of the popular press. It is his
sincere belief that Colonel Blimp, who,
whatever his failings, won the British
Empire in valiant strife in the past and
has shed his lifeblood for it ever since,
has sold out to the Nazis. I quote
Humphrey on the Colonel Tarlington
who is the villain of the book:
“ ‘Your weakness is pride, Colonel Tarling-
ton. You see yourself as a rightly privi-
leged person, quite different from the
common crowd, and you’re ready to pay a
big price to keep your privileges. You
hate democracy, and all it means. There’s
something fundamentally stiffnecked, arro-
gant, dominating and conceited about you
that just can’t take it. When Hess flew
over here he was looking for people like
you. It isn’t that you’re pro-German,
unpatriotic in the ordinary sense. In the
last war, which seemed to you a straight-
forward nationalistic affair, I’ve no doubt
you did a good job. But this war, which
is quite different, was too much for you.
You’re a bit more intelligent and a bit
more unscrupulous than most of your kind,
and so you realised that to keep all you
wanted to keep it meant that the people
mustn’t win and that Fascism mustn’t lose.
You’ve lost, Tarlington, you’ve lost. And
if you don’t want... to be remembered
... as an English Quisling ... there’s only
one way . . . one way
“What,” said Mr. Gallagher, “do the
dots represent?”
“Humphrey is swooning,” said Mr.
Shean.
“When he comes to,” said Mr. Gal-
lagher, “ask him for me why this war,
in which various Germans, Italians and
Japanese are out for land and loot, is
‘quite different’ from the last war in
which the same Germans made the same
bid for domination of the world. Ask
him why he assumes that Colonel Blimp
or Tarlington, who fought like a lion for
us then, shouldn’t fight for us now in this
straightforward nationalistic affair.”
“It is hardly fair to hit a man when
he is swooning,” said Mr. Shean.
“Humphrey has just been shot by Colonel
Tarlington’s butler, who is not himself
at all but a Nazi,”
“Frankly,” said Mr. Gallagher, “I
don’t believe there’s a single last-war
colonel in all England who has a Nazi
butler.”
“Humphrey just copped a packet from
one,” said Mr. Shean.
“True,” admitted Mr. Gallagher. “And
if I had been attacked by Colonel Tar-
lington’s Nazi butler, or bitten by
Colonel Tarlington’s Nazi bunyip, I
might be a bit sour on life myself. How
is Humphrey, by the way? Still over-
flowing with song and gaiety?”
“I regret to inform you,” said Mr.
Shean, “that on page 73 Humphrey is
still ‘very sour.’ While as far on as
page 142, when, having just been kissed
by a female spy, he is in the process of
being kissed by a victim of the Nazis, he
is in a very sad state indeed. I quote:
“ ‘I spent the next five minutes behind
that door wondering how many more
women I’d be kissing on this Gretley
job. For that wasn’t my style at all, and
particularly just now, when I was feeling
so sour and not at all young and hopeful.’ ”
“Doesn’t like to be kissed?” asked Mr.
Gallagher.
“Loathes it,” Mr. Shean answered.
“Not normal,” said Mr. Gallagher.
“Ah,” said Mr. Shean. “But right at
the end of the book it turns out that
one of his spy-esses isn’t a spy at all;
and furthermore she is ‘as sour as —as
sour as treacle pudding’; and I am
given to understand that Humphrey is
going to marry the treacle pudding and
never be sour again.”
“Tut!” said Mr. Gallagher.
Macquarie and the Bents .
On the hillside between George-street
and Macquarie-street, where it is
bounded by Hunter-street and Circular
Quay, there is an area of Sydney in
which the soberest citizen, looking for
the Savoy picture theatre, trying to make
his way up to the Mitchell Library, or
obeying a summons to the Water Police
Court, is likely to spend the whole day
wandering in hopeless circles. The
streets themselves seem to lose their way
and run about in all directions. And
somewhere in the midst of all that confu-
sion there is a street called Bent-street, of
which Malcolm Ellis writes in Lachlan
Macquarie : Some Aspects of His Life
(the Macrossan Memorial Lectures, 1942,
published by the University of Queens-
land) :
The public memory of the Bents sur-
vives in Australia only in a few musty
public papers, a few faded and insolent
letters and by dint of the signpost of an
oblique and descending street in Sydney.
Bent-street, from another point of
view, goes uphill; but—symbolically
speaking —Ellis denies that it does ; he
denies that the brothers Bent, whom the
street commemorates, were the selfless
champions of liberty that history has
usually pretended:
In dealing with the curious incidents
connected with the foundation of the first
Supreme Court of Justice in the continent
of Australia, the story, as it is invariably
related, tells only half the truth; and upon
the basis of that half-truth the relator
usually affects to draw a moral from the
fate of two just Judges, who supposedly
became successfully involved in a
conflict with military autocracy in the
person of Governor Macquarie. The story
is given, very often, a happy ending. The
tyrant Macquarie is thwarted and rebuked,
and the doctrine of the liberty of the sub-
ject triumphs. The Judges become martyrs
in the cause of democracy.
► Because of the human element—prin-
ciple invariably entangled with the pas-
sions of ambition, arrogance, prejudice
and personal hatreds —it’s almost as diffi-
cult to decide whether or not the Bents
were champions of democracy as it is to
be quite sure whether Bent-street goes
uphill or downhill.
When Ellis Bent came out as Mac-
quarie’s Deputy Judge-Advocate in New
South Wales and, finding business brisk,
asked not merely for one new court-
house (which he himself built as con-
tractor, paying wages in rum), but also,
and almost immediately, for a second one
on a larger and more dignified scale, it
may have been a reasonable request and
—in so far as the dignity of Justice is an
essential of democracy —a democratic
request. But when Macquarie, with the
best will in the world, couldn’t find the
money, there seemed no justification for
Bent’s “very Marked Degree of Coolness
and Reserve in his Manner” and there is
more arrogance than democracy in his
accusation to the Governor of
want of feeling for his Situation and
personal Comfort, as Judge Advocate, in
Not Sooner having a suitable and Comfort-
able Court House Erected at Sydney for his
Accommodation.
Maybe the cause of democracy as
against the military autocracy advanced
a little when Ellis Bent evaded the Gov-
ernor’s currency regulations (which the
Judge himself had drafted), but the stand
for democracy was singularly profitable
for himself and the effect on the com-
mercial life of the community was not
exactly uplifting. Macquarie reported:
By these Means the Old and base Sys-
tem of fraud, as exercised in the system
of Currency Notes, had returned upon the
country, which by means of Mr. Bent’s
irregular and inconsistent Conduct had
again grown into use.
And then, when Jeffery Bent came out
as a Judge to assist his brother, democ-
racy may again have been advanced by
his refusal to sully the dignity of his
court by allowing emancipist pleaders ;
but his public rebuking of his assisting
magistrates for daring to disagree with
him was not in the best of taste for a
democrat; and present-day opinion would
certainly side with Macquarie against the
Judge in the matter of allowing the
emancipists a chance to rehabilitate them-
selves and to do a necessary service to
the community, apart from the fact that
Bent’s assumption of power to give a
decision seems to have been ultra vires.
Macquarie, in any case (as the Colonial
Office viewed him), was not a dictator
but a military Governor “on a sort of
active service” under the directions of his
superiors in England, and those superiors
were not at all sure that the Bents were
a good influence in the turbulent con-
vict settlement. Lord Bathurst, on the
matter of the currency regulations, wrote
to Ellis Bent:
Filling as you do the Situation of Judge
Advocate in the Colony, it is more particu-
larly incumbent upon you to uphold the
Governor’s Authority and set an Example
of due obedience to it; for there could not
exist a greater Misfortune to a Settlement,
of so peculiar a description as New South
Wales, than a spirit of Resistance, or any-
thing more calculated to produce such a
Calamity than an Appearance of Misunder-
standing between the Governor and your-
self, or a Suspicion that you were disposed
to question or disobey his Orders.
And to Jeffery Bent, Lord Bathurst
pointed out:
....whether convicts be or be not
authorised to practise is a question of
little Importance, when compared with the
consequences arising out of its agitation,
the closing of the Supreme Court of the
Colony for at least twelve months. With
every disposition to make Allowance for
your feelings in resisting the Introduction of
such persons into your Court, I cannot find
any Apology for your Refusal to accede
to the qualified Admission, recommended
by Governor Macquarie.
With Macquarie’s own conduct (Lord
Bathurst reported) the Prince Regent felt
he “had every reason to be satisfied.”
The conclusion is that Bent-street runs
both uphill and downhill. For the Bents,
plainly, were not martyrs for democracy ;
and yet, by eventually playing a part in
forcing the British Parliament to inquire
into the rule of military law in New
South Wales, they did hasten the estab-
lishment of democratic government.
Malcolm Ellis has discussed these com-
plicated quarrels with great clarity and
with a pleasingly ironic wit. He has a
keen sense for character, and Macquarie
and the Bents live as vividly in the lec-
tures as they might (and some day will)
in the pages of a first-class historical
novel. There is the richest of comedy
in the story of Jeffery Bent’s refusal, for
dignity’s sake, to pay Macquarie’s road
tolls:
Jeffery Bent now had fallen into the
constant habit of riding through toll gates
without paying fee. The harried toll-
keepers would peep out. There, between a
pair of wheels or on a prancing steed, and
usually accompanied by Mr. J. L. Nicholas,
a bosom friend of the Reverend S.
Marsden, would be Mr. Justice Bent. Bent
would shout: “I’ll pay no toll, lam Judge
of this Colony. I’ll pay no toll whilst I am
in it, and if you don’t let me pass I’ll send
you to gaol.”
And it becomes funnier still when, in-
stead of the tollkeeper going to gaol,
D’Arcy Wentworth, as magistrate, fines
the Judge 40 shillings for the offence.
These lectures (the second, equally
colorful, deals with Macquarie in India)
are not extracts from Malcolm Ellis’s
big life of Macquarie which won the
S. H. Prior Memorial Prize two years
ago, but they may be taken as a pretty
good indication of the quality of that
work. Publication of the biography has
been held up owing to a dispute with the
Commonwealth Literary Fund. It will be
a pity if publication is indefinitely de-
layed, or if the author should be com-
pelled to seek publication overseas.
SUNDRY SHOWS.
“Jachris”: Chekhov’s “The Seagull”
—Doris Fitton’s Independents wrestled
with it at their North Sydney playhouse
—is founded on despair, the one unsatis-
factory thing above all unsatisfactory
things in the making of a play.
Where a man is already despairing and
where the problems confronting him
have ceased to interest him to the point
of rousing himself to struggle against
them, then both he and his problems have
already lost interest to anybody else.
Chekhov’s Constantine is despairing by
nature, despairing of his art and of his
love. The fact that he fails to shoot him-
self is interesting for the moment only
(and then only as a “fact,” something
that has happened, an item of news), and
the fact that eventually he does manage
to shoot himself is not interesting at all,
for by then it is quite obvious that his
death won’t affect any of the other
characters in any way—not Nina, who
doesn’t love him and is herself despair-
ing ; not Masha, who does love him, but
can’t have him, and is despairing, too,
and certainly not the seagull, which is
already dead and, mounted in a glass
case, is beyond despair. There are prob-
lems in “The Seagull” that are interest-
ing—the problems of the obligations and
burdens inseparable from the artistic urge
to creativeness —-but they’re the subject
for an essay, not a play.
Booth Tarkington’s The Magnificent
Ambersons —a strong American period
piece all about the family life of
an aristocratic house whose hateful and
arrogant son, steeped in a moth-eaten
pride, wrecks his mother’s happiness—still
makes good dramatic stuff, and in the
film version at the Sydney Embassy
director Orson Welles plays upon emo-
tional scenes as a virtuoso upon a key-
board. Shadows and angles are his
forte ; and he gives the impression of
making his actors play second to them.
Sometimes a silhouette is presented
against a faintly lighted window, a cameo
barely distinguishable. Again, recording
the outburst of a jealous sister-in-law,
he photographs the scene from a low
angle to wring the last ounce of passion
out of the lady’s jaw muscles. Welles
skates around a weak and unconvincing
denouement by selling a pup to the
audience’s imagination. Tim Holt gives
an out-of-the-box performance as the son.
Among other talkies, “The Postman
Didn’t Ring” (Sydney Century) beats the
main attraction by virtue of its character
sketches by mostly unknown players.
“Rings on Her Fingers,” at the same
address, is the oft-hashed tale of slick
“society” people who live on their own
wits and half-wits, and a fresh twist
doesn’t bring it above f.a.q. “Broadway”
(G.U. Theatres), with the whimsical Pat
O’Brien and a toned-down George Raft
as a cop and a dancer who get into holts
over a small matter of a murder in the
spacious days of hooch and hooey, assays
high in excitement.
“F.S.”: Recognising that light is the
executant of a picture, just as a pianist
is the executant of a composer’s composi-
tions, Melbourne Athenaeum gallery, on
the advice of a Melbourne artist who
regards these things as of importance,
has installed a new system on the lines
of the South Kensington in London, one
of the best-lighted galleries in England.
Each picture has its own individual illu-
mination, which doesn’t get in the way of
the observer. It is shining for the
moment on a new show by Arthur Stree-
ton. Having been a pretty sick man for
some time past, the veteran landscape
painter has little new work, but there
are a number of familiar canvases, in-
cluding the souvenirs of his period in
England and Venice and a portrait of
the artist by the late John Longstaff.
“Cauboy”; The somewhat tawdry
splendors of “The Merry Widow, re-
vived at His Majesty’s, Melbourne, gain
a meretricious grandeur from the return
of Gladys Moncrieff. The catchy Lehar
ditties are only oases in the drivelling
waste of a dialogue which sounds strange
from a cast previously heard in Gilbert’s
crisp satire. Nevertheless, the manage-
ment made no mistake, commercially
speaking, when they revived the ancient
opus. Miss Moncrieff only has to dance
a few steps' with Max Oldaker to bring
down a house which admires her for
having overcome a physical injury which
would have put most actresses perma-
nently out of commission. A talkie ver-
sion revived by an enchanting coinci-
dence at the same time isn’t likely to last
so long ; the star is Jeannette MacDonald


"TRUTH IN ADVERTISING’’
"THE SENIOR STORE’
For Men
WITH M EYE TO SERVICE
MEN’S OVERALLS
In the Bib and Brace style. The “Sturdy Oak” Hordura (Regd.). Thoroughly
tested materials. Strongly sewn with strain points bar tacked. At Anthony
Horderns’.
Navy Drill. Price . . 16/6, 217-
Khaki Drill. Price 14/9, 21/-
6 Coupons Required
WATERPROOF JACKETS
These waterproof utility jackets are made from the famous “Driazabone”
Oiled Canvas, with turn down collar, elastic waist, stud fasteners, to fit 36 to
44 inch chest. Guaranteed waterproof. At Anthony Horderns’. Price .. 49/6
12 Coupons Required
LEATHER LUMBER JACKETS
Real lightweight Hide of a rich Dark Brown colour with two pockets, button
front and fully lined. Also adjustable waist. At Anthony Horderns’. Price, 79/6
20 Coupons Required
men’s Underwear
ART SILK UNDERWEAR. Plain White undershirts of tha Athletic style with
no sleeves. Size 34 to 42 inch chest. At Anthony Horderns’. Price .... 4/11
5 Coupons Required
MEN S TRUNK DRAWERS with elastic waist, in sizes 32 to 40 inches. At
Anthony Horderns’. Price 5/11
5 Coupons Required
RADIANT HEALTH SHOES
The Dr. Eddie Radiant Health Shoe with inbuilt steel arch which prevents
fallen arches and gives foot comfort. These are in Tan Calf, Black Box Calf and
Black Kid. A style to fit every foot. Genuine welted soles of solid leather. At
Anthony Horderns’. Price 37/6
12 Coupons Required
• Men’s Wear —Ground Floor, George Street,
GOLF BALLS CAN NOW BE RE-COVERED
Bring your golf balls to ns. Our Sports Department will buy them at
2/- per dozen. The Government has given permission for used golf
balls to be re-covered. All golf balls will be accepted by us except those
with deep cuts which have damaged the core or which are obiously
perished through exposure to the weather. These re-covered balls will
then be resold in perfect playing condition at a price yet to be fixed
by the Prices Commission.
• Sports Department —Lower Ground Floor, Pitt Street.
ANTHONY HORDERNS’
Famous Low Prices
Phone: M 2401, Day and Night Box 2712 C, C.P.0., Sydney


RETURN TO OWER’S CORNER
By CHRISTOPHER INMAN.
THE R.M.O. looked at the ther-
mometer and shook his head.
“Sorry, old chap,” he said, “but
you’ll have to go back.”
You knew it wasn’t much good argu-
ing with him about it, and in any case
the way you felt with the fever you hadn’t
the strength to argue with anyone, so you
stumbled back to company headquarters
and told Les you were going back and
that you were leaving the platoon ser-
geant in charge. You felt it was a rotten
way to have to leave. You’d been with
the unit so long now and in some tough
spots and you felt you were letting it
down. A bullet wound would have been
different.
Someone boiled you a dixie of tea, but
it made you feel sick, so after a few sips
you passed it on to another chap. The
company began to pack up —the bat-
talion was moving forward again—
and you packed up, too, though
packing wasn’t a long job in this
country where all a man carried was his
haversack and groundsheet and weapons
and ammunition. Then you picked up
your haversack, said a few good-byes
which you qualified by adding “I’ll be
back again in a week,” though you knew
that there wasn’t much chance of that,
and, leaning heavily on a stick, you
started back.
I T was just a month since the battalion
1 had begun its march along the track
which climbed and twisted its muddy way
over the ridges, along the razorbacks
and down the beds of the stony creeks.
On the maps of the area it was marked
by a dotted line boldly labelled “Port
Moresby-Buna Track.”
You remembered the men you had met
coming back as the battalion moved for-
ward. Some of them were walking
wounded, their legs or arms tied up with
muddy rags, hobbling along with sticks
and panting as they forced one foot after
the other up the steps cut into the track.
Others were carried on rough stretchers
made of poles and blankets by patient,
laboring Kanakas, who felt each new
step in the slippery mud with a stick be-
fore making each pace forward. They
moved slowly, at times edging their way
inch by inch around steep and narrow
portions of the treacherous track.
There was one man, badly wounded in
the leg, who insisted on walking up the
steepest portions of the track. Behind
him a Kanaka followed closely while the
other three bearers brought the stretcher
along. At last he swayed and would have
fallen in the mud but as he toppled the
Kanaka caught him in his arms and gently
lifted him back on to the stretcher.
There were the sick men who leant on
their sticks and unsteadily forced theii
legs to climb each step in the track. You
could see the ravages of fever and
dysentery in their pallid faces, the cheek-
bones jutting out above their matted
beards and their eyes bright with fever
and sunk deeply in their sockets. Here
and there men had collapsed by the side
of the track. Some of them lay so still
that you could not tell if they were dead
or alive, but the battalion had to keep
moving forward, so you left them lying
there.
You remembered these men you had
met as you began to go down the ridge.
It was hard going down the steep track;
your head was dizzy and each step down
seemed to jar your whole body and your
head ached with the agony of it. There
was a dump of Japanese equipment be-
side the track, and just beyond a sentry
stood guard over a Japanese who lay on
a blanket stretcher. He was very thin,
and the sentry said that he was too weak
from starvation and dysentery to stand.
They were going to try to get him back
later on.
It was a long way down to the river.
As the morning went on the clouds came
down over the hills and there was a light
shower of rain which made the track
slippery again. Nothing ever seemed to
dry up here ; the sunlight seldom filtered
through the thick treetops, and men’s
skins quickly lost their tan and became
pale and yellow-looking and very dif-
ferent from the bronzed look of the men
at base in the open country round Port
Moresby.
A long line of Kanakas, carrying
rations and ammunition to a forward
dump, toiled up the track, and you lay
down at the side while they passed,
grunting and straining with their loads
but steadily climbing. After they had
gone on you continued slowly down the
track, resting every few yards, wherever
a patch of leaves made the wet ground
more inviting. Before long you heard
the Kanakas returning ; they had reached
the forward dump and dropped their
loads and were going back to their camp.
As they came down the track you could
hear them singing and shouting to each
other. “Eeeee —Hola,” they called, and
they laughed and joked. You remem-
bered how the carriers had been sullen
and silent when they brought up sup-
plies while the battalion had been with-
drawing from ridge to ridge, before the
Jap advance had been finally checked ;
it had been hard to get carriers then.
Now the enemy was on the run they
were as happy as they had been sullen
before.
I T had taken you less than three hours
1 to climb the ridge with the battalion
when you had been moving forward,
though the fever had been on you even
then ; now it took you eight hours to
struggle back down the ridge to the river.
There was a field ambulance post
across the river and the M.O. let you
camp there for the night. He took your
temperature and noted it down on your
medical card. You had a look at the
card and saw that it was 104 deg., so you
reckoned you were sick all right. You
lay on a stretcher under a native-built
shelter and wished you could die. They
brought some tea and they gave you some
pills which made you sleep. In the morn-
ing you didn’t feel any better and your
temperature was still pretty high, but
the M.O. said you would have to keep
going to get out to Ower’s Corner, where
you could get a ride on a truck back to
hospital. So after a while you forced
yourself on to your feet and began to
climb up from the river to the next ridge
back.
It was easier to climb up than to climb
down. You just had to force your feet
to move up step after step and you didn’t
have to steady yourself against the dizzi-
ness in your head as you did going down-
hill. It was on this ridge that the bat-
talion had first met the Japs. You re-
membered how you had come straight
off the boat and had begun to march up
the track. It had been a forced march
most of the way because the push had
got to be stopped, so the battalion had
ploughed its way forward through the
mud. Then on this ridge you had
bumped straight into the enemy, who
was well dug in, and things had been
pretty willing for a while. You could
remember how you had lain behind the
scant protection of a clump of bamboo
while a machine-gun chopped the young
shoots down a few inches above your
head. Then the Japs pushed through
another battered and weary battalion on
the flank —it had been out for over a
month and was heavily down in num-
bers —and the order was given to with-
draw. For the first time in its his-
tory the battalion had withdrawn and
had stumbled back along the track in the
dark to the next ridge. There battalions
were sorted out and positions taken up,
and the Jap came no further; patrols
searched the country in between the two
ridges and found a way to outflank the
enemy, the ridge was recaptured and the
Jap began his long retreat.
There were a lot of rough wooden
crosses by the track near the top of the
ridge. Some of them bore once familiar
names and numbers printed on them with
indelible pencil. Others were simply in-
scribed “Unknown Soldier, 2/ — or 2/ —
Bn.” There’s no chance of burying your
dead when you are being forced back,
and ten days afterwards there’s not much
left of a man in this country. There
were square-cut sticks with Japanese writ-
ing on them standing beside mounds
bordered with interlaced twigs. Some of
their graves were shallow and you could
still smell death in the heavy air.
In a clearing on top of the ridge there
were a few grass huts, so you lay down
in the shade to rest after the climb. While
you lay there a fresh battalion, moving
up, passed through. The men were all
clean and shaved, and they joked with
each other as they passed. Some of
them saw you lying there and asked how
the going was. You heard one man say
to his mate, who was growling about the
hills and the Godforsaken country, “Come
on. Bill, don’t forget we’re the mob that
took eight thousand prisoners at Bardia.”
An officer passed. You had once had
a night out with him at the Yarkon in
Tel Aviv, but when you raised your head
and said “How’s the Yarkon now, Bob?”
he just looked at you blankly and kept
going. Then you realised that in your
mud-stained greens, which hadn’t been
washed for a month, and with several
weeks’ growth of beard and bones stick-
ing out everywhere, you wouldn’t look
much like the chap he’d swilled whisky
with that night in Palestine.
lATER you began the downhill stage
I—* to the next medical post. It was
harder than ever to keep moving. Once
you fell and lay unconscious for an hour
until someone picked you up and helped
you down the last stretch. When you
fell you lost your tin hat, which
rolled down a steep bank. You
were sorry about losing that hat;
it had been issued to you before
you first left Australia, and you had
carried it through England, Egypt and
Syria. It was the one souvenir, battered
and dented as it was, which you treas-
ured ; and after the war you’d reckoned
you’d have it hung on the wall at home.
But now you were too sick to bother
about it —anyway, it made your head
ache and was heavy to carry, and you
didn’t need a hat in all the trees—so you
left it to rust and be overgrown with
creepers and ferns.
That night you camped at the medical
post, and next day you struggled on a
few steps at a time. Towards evening
the fever eased a little, and your head
felt clearer, so that when you met a
few chaps you knew who were going up
to rejoin the battalion you enjoyed the
tea they made for you, and nibbled a
biscuit and managed to smoke half a
cigarette. They were camping there that
night, so you stayed with them, and
because your head had cleared you were
able to talk sensibly to them, and you
felt better. It wasn’t far to Ower's
Corner now, they said, and from there
on there was a good road.
You had passed the Corner when you
first came up. Then the trucks had only
been able to come to five miles the other
side, and the battalion had had to wade
ankle-deep through the mud, churned up
by packhorses and the one solitary jeep
which roared its way up to the dump
just past the Corner. Now packhorses
came right down the hill past Überi.
Engineers were working on the track all
the time here, widening it and cutting
easier grades.
Next morning you didn’t feel so good
again, but you managed to get down to
the medical post at Überi, and you
rested there before tackling the last climb
to the Corner. It was a stiff climb up
the last ridge, and the track was cut up
by the packhorses. Near the top of the
ridge a bulldozer was roaring and crash-
ing its way through the trees as the end
of the road was pushed forward. Some
day, you thought, the dotted line of the
“Port Moresby-Buna Track” would be
changed to a heavier line called the Buna
Road.
When you reached the top you rested
at a medical post until they put you on
the big truck which swayed down the
road and started you on the endless
round of examinations, and answering
the questions of orderly-room clerks
which is the arduous way through the
main dressing station and casualty
clearing station to a base hospital. But
as the truck bumped along you thought
of the men you had left up there, forcing
their way steadily onward through the
many of them again: They died at Gona.
Various Verse
The Fisherman and the Moon.
Unto these
And mourning willows stoop to make
Memorial caverns for their grief,
- Fisherman> w h a t have you caught tonight?”
“A netted river-haul of stars
And a dregged moon that shakes with cold,
Half-drowned in shifting darknesses,
“Nightly she comes, poor suicide,
£|UTe“ B th?"brim,
r™ moon-” Sid The fisherman,
dnd dlat f e jiow Endymion”
,
“He’s dead these thousand years, I cried,
l4you say so ?” mused the fisherman;
wou ici have liked a word with him.”
n.s.w.
ROSEMARY DOBSON.
“All Before Them.”
I’ve just seen them,
And paused to admire —
Three goldfinches.
Mr., Mrs. and Friend,
Perching on a wire
With a couple of inches ,
Or so between them,
In the dawn grey and cold.
Gossiping away
In their scarlet and gold
Uniforms brave and gay,
And itching to spend
Their new day;
By-and-bye,
Scared of me,
In a flash off they fly
Down the wind, careless and free,
And they don’t know
Where they’ll go
Or what they’ll do,
And neither do I,
Nor do you.
MAORILAND.
ARNOLD WALL.
Turn and Fall.
I have walked on moonlit grass before,
back and along outside my house.
And if there is nothing can restore
that time, and little enough to rouse
even thought of it within clear sound
of a clean sea and beside white dunes
amid bottle-brush, I would not be bound
in an orbit as reasoned as the moons;
but choose more than darkness at my back
slipping out through the net of stars, and would
bid ,
my life (the lit centre of my track
across untrod night) renounce and be rid
of fixity, pass beyond now, and spread,
becoming all I know or have known ■
not as a burial of my head
in scenes past that are sand and blown
here in the eyes (for one must yet
meet the fresh hour) nor as one might
read a learnt lesson through and regret
blunders. made, chances killed outright,
harms done, and that greatest harm ot all*
days wasted, profitless, without joy;
it is rather that by the turn and fall
of living I come into the employ
of wars, business, events, and run
new errands, not of my own will,
along an old time’s pathway, one
overgrown but known blindfold still.
N.S.W.
ROBERT D. FITZGERALD.
Christmas, 1942.
l.
Here’s shade and comfort by this towering tree,
Dear Phredrus, and a breeze to lull our rest.
Here let our thoughts flow undisturbed and
As flows Laloki. Many sands have run
Since by Ilissus you and I reclined;
And many comrades journeyed to the sun
With whom we have shared everything but
death.
11.
I could not speak of mem on my return;
1 could not bare the wound so closely wrapped
Against corruption by the spoken word;
My smile the dreamer’s shield held up to guard
A sense of impotence, a deep despair
Of making “over here” see ‘ over there.
But someone spoke of Damas and Djezzine,
And phrased a pretty speech about Tobruk,
And in a flash the cramped suburban room,
The silly teacups and the linen cloth,
The heartless sympathy of common speech
Moved out beyond the compass of Times
reach:
And I was in a man’s world and the earth
Shook or stood still as we chose to dictate,
And life was ours, and death, and the sweet pain
Of thinking now and then of other days
When we were human beings, sheltered, ted,
The darlings of existence, fancy-led,
m.
Bitterness sways me but a while: is gone,
And I remember mornings such as this
By such a green-banked, slowly-flowing stream
An reon of experience ago.
Remember, too, a love that down the years
Has mocked me with its echoed might-have-
been.
These notes I gather now; all chords resolve
In pointed harmony phrased by despair;
New-cadenced by regrets that rise, and tall,
That hint a solemn pity: and are gone.
A.I.F.
ERIC IRVIN.


The Bulletin
Vol. 64.—N0. 3285.
Wednesday, January 27, 1943.
SPIRIT OF 1812.


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper
“Australia for the White Man
Directors:
H. K. Prior J. E. Webb
P. H. Prior David Adams
HEAD OFFICE: 252 George Street, Sydney:
Box 2521 BB; ’Phone 87971.
Victoria: Newspaper House, 247-249 Collins
Street, Melbourne.
Queensland: 239 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
Westralia : 33 Barrack Street, Perth.
New Zealand: Nathan’s Buildings (.opp.
G.P.0.), Wellington.
London: 1 Hare Place, 47 Fleet Street.
London, E.C.4.
THE CASE FOR AUSTRALIA.
Australians rejoice with the Russians
in their victories over the invader who
has made so much of their country a
wilderness and a prison for the survivors
of his fury. Sympathy and admiration
are especially keen among those of our
people who have themselves experienced
the horrors of invasion—those who were
driven from their homes in Papua and
Mandated New Guinea when the boys
in the Wirraways, heroes all, went to
certain death, and those who saw hell
fall on Darwin and Broome—but they
are not lacking among those others who
realise that the continent may yet witness
still more ghastly scenes. Last week’s
news from Russia, especially from the
indomitable city founded by Peter the
Great, was doubly welcome, since it coin-
cided with news of the taking of Sanan-
anda and the Eighth Army’s drive on
Tripoli, which meant that the Axis was
about to be expelled from Papua and
Tripolitania, its last foothold in Musso-
lini’s African Empire.
Much study of war reports, particu-
larly those fathered by Famous Corre-
spondents and radio uncles, has made
some reviewers cautious and even sus-
picious. Their attitude resembles that
of the mining reporter who rejects glow-
ing prospectuses and claims to the dis-
covery of rich ore and forms his judg-
ment on battery returns. Thus Major
Fielding Eliot, who enlisted in Victoria
at the beginning of the last war and is
entitled to the honorable name of Anzac,
finds something “strangely defeatist and
apologetic” in the admissions of the Ger-
man General Dietmar on the turn of
events in Russia, and agrees that “it is
possible,” though not probable, that “the
Germans are preparing a giant counter-
offensive, and are deliberately selling
themselves short in order to get
the maximum reaction at home and
abroad from an anticipated and sudden
announcement of successes.” An alter-
native conjecture is that their propa-
gandists may be “preparing the way for
a peace offensive.”
Whatever the truth may be, Goebbels
and his creatures must be hard put to
it to counteract the effects of Russian
Ptppaganda among the satellite nations.
For if there is one thing clear about the
winter offensive it is that a rot has set
in among satellite troops.
After seven days of the thrust in the
Voronezh region Moscow claimed 52,000
prisoners, “of whom 27,500 are Hun-
garians, 22,000 Italians and 2500 Ger-
mans.” On other parts of the southern
front Rumanians and Italians (Slovaks
have also been mentioned) have been cut
up and captured in droves. There have
always been Communists in the satellite
countries, as well as heaps of non-Com-
munists with American connections, and
it is easy to understand that, after 21
months in Russia, with fresh armies com-
ing at them in the second winter, the
morale of the Rumanian, Italian, Hun-
garian and Slovak divisions has deterio-
rated. Even before they were so
severely smitten their people at home
must have been gloomily wonder-
ing what good could possibly accrue
to Rumania, Italy, Hungary and
Slovakia from so distant and doubtful a
war. Yet it is necessary for Hitler to
keep these countries in what he calls his
“system” by force if required, though
force itself would entail a tremendous and
hazardous lengthening of the German-
manned lines; and the same is true of
Finland. The Finns, for their part, have
stood idle in their trenches for the best
part of a year, and there is some evidence
that during that period they have made
overtures to the United States —still tech-
nically at peace with them —and Britain
for a separate peace.
There is no evidence that the German
losses in Russia since November 19, rela-
tively to the numbers engaged, have been
anywhere near as great as those inflicted
on their dupes, or'that they have shown
any disposition to surrender weakly in
large bodies. On the contrary, they seem
to have fought stubbornly in every sector,
and their part in the retreat, where
ordered, seems to have been skilfully car;-
ried out. It is stupid and dangerous to
run away with the idea that they are
cracking. If this were true they could
never have shown the bold front they
are showing in Tunisia, where in the space
of a few weeks they improvised a sub-
stantial army and air force out of no-
thing. And the indications are that they
have made cunning use of the political
and racial embarrassments which have
beset the Anglo-American leaders ever
since the French laid down their arms,
beginning with the idiotic agitation
against the arrangement with Darlan,
which should have ended immediately
the President explained that it was a
temporary expedient, designed to save
American, British and French lives and
to gain time. So far from ending, it has
continued in forms as harmful, nourished
by Left-Wingers in Britain and the United
States, since the admiral was assassi-
nated, the human targets for the invec-
tive of Left-Wingers and other meddlers
being, first. General Giraud and now M.
Peyrouton, who has been named Gover-
nor-General of Algeria.
The U.S.A. is committed to the “Beat
Hitler First” programme, and is giving
Russia first call on the ’planes, tanks,
guns (all descriptions), shells and bombs
It can spare. This was stated by Vice-
President Wallace at a New York meet-
ing on November 7, the 25th anniversary
of the Russian revolution, and has been
repeated in a recent White House an-
nouncement. The great Republic may yet
be driven to realise that beating the Jap
is the job which should come first, not
only for military reasons, but because it
is altogether free from the political com-
plications which assailed Uncle Sam
from the moment he began to take an
active part in European affairs. They are
by no means confined to the extensions
of France called North and West Africa.
They exist in Yugoslavia, which is as
faction-ridden as France (and the Yugo-
slav factions have arms in their hands),
and in other parts of Europe at present
beyond the reach of American generals
and diplomats.
Without doubt the campaigns in North
Africa and the R.A.F. operations over
Germany, Holland, Belgium, Northern
France and Italy have materially relieved
the Axis pressure on Russia, and the
Anglo-American war materials delivered
to that country by brave men of the Eng-
lish-speaking race, who take their lives
in their hands every time, have been a
great factor in the Russian victories. The
’planes, tanks, guns, bombs and shells
must be as good as those with which
Generals Alexander and Montgomery
were supplied, and the superiority of
which has been strikingly demonstrated
in the most exacting campaign of all
time.
Moved perhaps by Communist cries
that the English-speaking race was not
doing enough, for Russia, the Deputy
Administrator of Lease-Lend gave out
some figures which, though some cate-
gories were not mentioned, are really
astonishing. As well as fighting on
two continents and above a third,
supplying its Empire and shoulder-
ing the lion’s share of the war
against the U-boats—still very seri-
ous, if not more serious than ever—
Britain has sent 2000 aircraft and 2600
tanks to Russia. From the U.S.A. Russia
has received 3300 tanks, 2600 aircraft and
81,000 military vehicles, besides vast
quantities of aviation spirit, fuel oil,
miscellaneous supplies and food—more
than has been sent to Britain. With the
diversion to Australasia in the next six
months of half those totals of ’planes
and tanks, and the equivalent in guns,
bombs and shells, the Commonwealth
could be made safe, and the chain
of islands to the immediate north would
soon become untenable for the Japs
without the necessity of digging them
out of malarious swamps and bogs. And
there would be a sweeping reduction in
the tragic losses of ships and men.
“Russia,” it was here stated exactly
eight months ago, “may be defeated, but
cannot be conquered.... Australia cannot
be saved on the steppes of Russia. It
may be lost irrecoverably, whatever the
outcome of the war in Europe, if, for
lack of a concentration of superior forces,
the Japanese are allowed to consolidate
their conquests and extend them.”
Even in defeat Russia’s inexhaustible
man-power would sooner or later restore
the situation. B'ut a Japanese conquest
of 7,000,000 Australians would be a real
and horrible thing. It would almost cer-
tainly be followed by a swift introduction
of Asiatics- —not only Japanese on so
vast a scale that even if the conquerors,
after a hideous war of color, were expelled
from the mainland, White Australia would
have become only a memory. And it the
conquest were made good the white race
would have suffered a disaster comparable
to the taking of Constantinople in 1453....
So, as between Australia and Russia, Aus-
tralia should come first.
Since these words were published (and
they have recently been amplified by
Representative Maas, eyewitness of the
fighting in Papua and the Solomons, in
a series of powerful speeches addressed
to his countrymen) the Russians have
shown that they can take care of them-
selves in Europe. It is certain that Russia
will emerge from the part of the war in
which it is engaged powerful, possibly
all-powerful, in Europe. But the peril
to these southern Dominions remains,
and a stalemate in the Pacific would have
consequences to them only less appalling
than conquest. It is their right as loyal
partners to make earnest representa-
tions against the “Beat Hitler First” pro-
gramme and the Russia-first priority, and
against that mysterious and unprece-
dented policy which expects the smallest
of the United Nations to take its full
share of the global war (a responsibility
nobly borne and never disputed by the
New Zealanders), while permitting the
greatest of the United Nations in point
of population to contract out of the war
in the Pacific, though it carried on an
undeclared frontier war against the
Japanese for years.
Behind these representations should
stand a united Parliament, people and
press. By the tragic irony of events,
there is no such unity. Parliament, vol-
uble always on a multitude of minor
matters, is silent on this subject, the great-
est of all. The Government has restored
legal status to Communist organisations
and publications which have resumed
their Russia-First agitation as audaciously
as ever, and are venomously attacking
Anglo-American policy in North Africa
and Yugoslavia. Mr. Fallon, the general
secretary of the A.W.U., is threatened
with dismissal, even expulsion from the
union, “because of his recent attacks on
Soviet Russia” —in other words, his pro-
posal, which commended itself to the
1942 A.W.U. conference, that Russia, in
return for the enormous help it has re-
ceived from Britain and the United
States, should be asked to take part in
the war against Japan. In daily and
weekly newspapers of the Leftist brand
Second-Front-in-Europe stuff continues
to appear. Even the oldest and soberest
of Sydney dailies has written that
“Russia’s smashing winter offensive must
find its counterpart in a spring or summer
assault by Britain and America on the
ramparts of Fortress Europe” —this after
explaining in its cables that the reverses
in Tunisia are attributable to the neces-
sary employment of green troops against
veteran troops.
In a “spring or summer assault on the
ramparts of Fortress Europe” far more
green troops would have to be employed.
Not, as in Tunisia, in attacking impro-
vised defences manned by hastily col-
lected forces, but in attacking the strong-
est lines on the Continent, behind which
the enemy, with magnificent strategic
roads and railways under his control,
could swiftly mass superior forces,
directed by commanders long before
assigned to the task, and composed of
veterans. In the process there would
have to be a vast concentration in a small
space of precious ships and men, and such
of the ships as survived the enemy’s on-
slaughts alow and aloft, with others requi-
sitioned as the necessity arose, would have
to be engaged in a hazardous ferry ser-
vice throughout the period of the cam-
paign—if a campaign could be launched
and established—or try to bring off an-
other miracle like Dunkirk. It may be
just what Hitler is hoping for.
"What About the Man?"
Taking a breather after a tough job
splendidly done, Lieut-General E. F.
Herring, Commander of the Allied Land
Forces in New Guinea, pronounced some
interesting findings based on his recent
experiences. Among them:
Too many people have been looking for
machines—tanks and aeroplanes —to do
their fighting for them.
In his view it is still trained men —
especially infantrymen ; the P. 8.1. —who
do the real tough fighting and thereby
win wars. This view has been advanced
more than once here, specifically when
Mr. Curtin, before he developed a sense
of realism, was nullifying his sound advo-
cacy of fleets of ’planes by regarding
them as alone sufficient. Until very
recently there never was any place in
the Curtin scheme of war for ground
forces; certainly none for the proper
training of such bow-and-arrow troops
as ordinary footsloggers. It was all up
in the air—like Mr. Curtin himself, and
many others with him, in those days.
The same view was also here advanced
when Mr. Menzies was braving up to
every available microphone —not only in
this country, but in Britain and the
U.S.A. as well—with his then plausible
theory that “the day of the big battalions
has gone for ever” (shades of Fritz v.
Ivan!); in effect, that machines would
henceforth do all the fighting; conse-
quently, that the most important people
in war now were the home-fronters, the
munition workers and the like. Nobody
would question the relative importance
of these people, or of all others in any
way backing up the fighters. What could
be questioned was the wisdom of giving
their part the heaviest emphasis, and the
fighters’ part scarcely any. Mr. Menzies,
on this onetime pet theme of his, was
eloquent and persuasive. His eloquence
lingers on in the swollen heads —if not
in the bulging pockets also —of some of
the people he so persuasively boosted.
Presumably in those days the fighting
men were too preoccupied preparing for
the tough job ahead of them to find
time for correcting politicians’ theories.
Presumably, too, they have since experi-
enced some effects of those theories;
more and more of them are breaking
traditional silence to do a bit of correct-
ing of these and other fallacies connected
with their job. Thus, Admiral Ernest
J. King, C.-in-C. of Uncle Sam’s Fleet:
We are inclined to think this is a machine
age, but machines won’t win this war.
It will be won by the men behind the
machines.
As well as thus trying to swing the
emphasis of correct values back to where
it rightly belongs —to the men staking
their lives in the fighting part —the
fighters’ leaders are emphasising the im-
portance of their men being well trained.
General Herring touched on this directly:
“Plenty of well-trained infantrymen are
needed to win this war” ; and indirectly:
The Americans had had no battle experi-
ence. They and their officers were seeing
action for the first time, and they were
opposed to well-trained, strongly-entrenched,
fresh Japanese forces.
Despite this serious handicap, the
Americans did their job well; but it was
a grievous handicap to them. In men-
tioning it General Herring indirectly
broke in on another outsize fallacy that
is still apparently good currency on the
political front. No doubt the politicians
would all protest in chorus that they are
every bit as keen as General Herring on
proper training for the fighting forces.
Their weakness is that, with few excep-
tions, they have had no military experi-
ence ; hence their notions (if any) of
military training are not worth a bumper.
Their profound ignorance in this
respect may be charitably accepted as
one of the main obstacles to the welding
of the various branches of Australian
troops into one army. Taking this view
of them —in preference to the harsher
view that they are callously indifferent
to the lot of raw troops in the position
of the Americans described by General
Herring—their baulking and sidestepping
on the one-army issue are at least under-
standable, though still inexcusable. The
tragedy of it is that not they but in-
experienced troops will pay the price of
this colossal ignorance.
With a one-army plan operating, such
troops could go as reinforcements to
seasoned battalions. They could have
the benefit of the moral support and
experience of veterans. As it is, when
(or if) Mr. Curtin’s cautious amendment
of the Defence Act comes off, they will
have to go out theoretically trained but
actually raw troops. As it is, also,
veteran units, being called on —as in
Papua —to bear the brunt of the fighting,
will meanwhile have been reduced to
what General Blarney grimly called
“remnants.”
What the politicians seem incapable of
grasping is that a trained soldier and a
trained battalion are two entirely dif-
ferent things. A soldier for reinforce-
ment purposes can be fairly efficiently
trained in comparatively little time. It
has taken years of combined training and
experience to bring the A.I.F. battalions
to the pitch necessary for the grand job
they did in Papua. Because they were
thus seasoned they had to do all the
tough fighting as an ordinary matter of
course; certainly no leader would use
raw troops with such as these available.
There are other aspects to this besides
the unfairness to the men themselves in
sending the old lot of veterans into the
line over and over to be whittled down
to nothing, while others, almost as long
in uniform —and therefore, in the evident
view of politicians, equally well trained—
stay on in Australia and have never heard
a shot fired. In the long run, when these
other troops go into action as units, the
set-up will be just as unfair to them.
all their training, they will be raw troops;
having to learn the hard fighting job
from scratch; lacking the stiffening sup-
port of experience that the “veterans
could give them.
It can be said that, for their part, the
A.I.F. men who did the fighting in Papua
had also to start off from scratch when
they first went to the Middle East. That
is true enough; but their having accom-
plished all that—at what cost!—is a poor
sort of reason, purely from their personal
standpoint, for using them over and over
again. From the Australian standpoint
it is similarly deplorable. As Australia s
front line of fighters, being reinforced,
under a one-army plan, by trained but
inexperienced troops, they could be ot
the very greatest value. In such a role
they—what is left of them, and including
the rest of the A.l.F.—are too valuable
an asset to be sacrificed for the mere
political well-being of blundering politi-
cians. But that is exactly what has been
happening with them while, skulking
behind them, the politicians shirked the
one-army issue.


PLAIN ENGLISH
The Wisdom of Kaiser.
Henry J. Kaiser, the American who is
turning out cargo ships at a rate never
before approached and has plans for
breaking records in the construction of
cargo ’planes, is not only a master-builder
but a thinker. Asked to discuss the shape
of things to come, he said he had no
patience with those who declare that
“war alone has made possible full em-
ployment in the modern world, and
when peace comes we will enter a period
of economic disaster.”
I don’t believe these ominous prophecies.
What an indictment they lay on civilisation
itself! Peace should present us with an
unparalleled opportunity. The business of
restoring a war-drained economy and re-
building a war-shattered world should keep
every wheel of American industry and every
acre of American agriculture fully employed
for 20 years. And it is not too soon for
the participants in and the defenders of
American enterprise to begin planning for
the role fate has decreed we shall play
in the post-war world.
For the war has strengthened Mr.
Kaiser’s faith in free enterprise and
democracy.
I throw my lot in with those who hold
that the war has proven once and for all
that there is no issue in peace or recon-
struction that cannot be met by our Ameri-
can our time-tested American way
of doing things.
I repudiate those theories that envision
the world made up of super States, co-
ordinated by a super-super State, where a
man will be told what to do, and how, and
where, and when, and how much.
I have no faith in any such grandiose
schemes. The production that is necessary
to sustain mankind comes about when
men operate under a minimum of restraint;
when they are given the opportunity to
risk and venture ; to lose as well as to gain ;
to strive, yes, to compete; and, most of
all, to escape the compulsion of excessive
government.
This is no plea for a return to rugged
individualism or laissez faire. We have
already learned to temper the brutality of
competition with fair play.
Closest to my own hope for the future are
the prospects of Labor, but I know that the
real interests of Labor lie with an inde-
pendent economy rather than with the
socialism which has again and again de-
stroyed Labor’s opportunity.
There spoke an enlightened employer,
a man who stands so well with the unions
and who is so universally regarded as
an asset to the nation in every way that
the A.F.L. and the C. 1.0. are fiercely
competing for control of the unionists in
his yards and works—though the A.F.L.
got in first. And what he says of his
own country and institutions is equally
applicable to this Commonwealth. His
words should be weighed well by politi-
cians of all types, and by thoughtful
unionists who are beginning to realise
from the performances of the Wards and
Dedmans and the bureaucrats and the
union bosses what “socialisation” would
mean.
Rumor and the Remedy.
Perhaps rumors concerning the war
can’t be stopped. Retailing and listen-
ing to them give home-fronters a little
vicarious excitement. Probably, though,
they would not be so thick if officialdom
more promptly released all news that
could be of no use to the enemy, or the
release of which would not endanger lives
in the fighting forces.
A striking example to the contrary was
the withholding of news of the Jap air
attack at Broome on flying-boats laden
with refugees from Java. “At least 15
flying-boats, the occupants of which were
mostly women and children, were de-
stroyed.” This was withheld for over
10 months; the tragedy happened on
March 3, 1942.
As usual, there was no explanation of
the suppression. Lacking one, it may
be assumed that officialdom must have
feared the effects on Australian morale.
If that were so it would convict official-
dom of a funkhole complex which Aus-
tralians certainly do not share. The
actual effect of such news is to strengthen
Australian determination to help see that
the Jap is beaten back to where he be-
longs,
A serious defect in suppression is that
it weakens public trust in official war
pronouncements. Hence a very large
proportion of the rumors that float
nround.
Allies and Guests.
American service men on leave or con-
valescing in cities do not lack hospitality
or opportunities of seeing something of
our urban life. That is all to the good ;
but since the Americans are familiar with
cities anyhow, and since there is a lot of
Australia dutside the cities —a lot that
would interest them greatly—it will be
a pity if their knowledge of this country
is restricted to its pavements and its tropi-
cal north.
Something should be done about show-
ing them inland Australia. Not the
mountain playgrounds, but the farms, the
stations, the irrigation areas, the forests
—all the vast life of the outback. Take
a Texan familiar with cattle to the Upper
Murray or New England, a Californian
to Mildura, a sheepman from Wyoming
to Hay or Yass, a Kansan to a Wimmera
wheat farm, a Carolinian to the Queens-
land cotton country, a Washingtonian to
the Westralian jarrah forests, and so on,
and, in addition to the probability that
hosts and guests would get on famously
together, there would be a useful inter-
change of ideas and knowledge, and (who
knows?) a big chance of some of our
cheerful and gallant friends wanting to
settle m Australia after the war. Be that
as it may, convalescents, after weary
weeks battling against the Jap in swamps
and jungles that try the souls of the
stoutest, would respond wonderfully to
a spell of country air and quiet.
Australian country people, by taking
in for a week or so Americans on leave,
would maintain the old reputation of the
bush for hospitality and do their country
a service. There is much beauty, much
progress, much to be proud of in our
dairy country, in the rolling wheatlands,
in the wineries of South Australia, on
the stations and in the cane-sugar dis-
tricts, and no chance of showing it to
men serving in the great cause should
be missed. The Americans them-
selves are keen on the notion. Many
are so eager to get outback that they’ve
signified their willingness to pay their
expenses.
That should not be necessary. As far
as transport is concerned it should not
be permitted by State Governments.
Country people who would be glad and
proud to take for guests American ser-
vice men who have come to fight—and,
in many cases, have fought—alongside
their own sons and brothers should get
in touch with the U.S. Special Service
Branch—the N.S.W. address is 7 Wyn-
yard-street, Sydney.
The Great Abstractions.
“Lord Luvus” : It has lately been my lot
to suffer an intense bombardment of
literature designed to seduce me into be-
lieving that what the country needs in
the present crisis and hereafter is a Par-
liament, or half a dozen Parliaments, com-
posed, if possible, of women. It charms
me to find that the skirted politicians
are blissfully unaware of the difference
between particular and general proposi-
tions.
A good example of male skilfulness in
this direction is the recent statement of
Keith Murdoch that he is “personally
a believer in a new party which would
attract all those who would make the
task of making Australia great, strong
and happy the major part of their lives.”
Well, is there anybody who would dis-
agree with that? Is there any Australian
who would say that he would like to
make Australia weak, small and un-
unhappy? Nobody would. The only
difficulty is how to do it, and concerning
that there are as many propositions as
there are individuals in the country,
I remember attending a Victorian elec-
tion meeting at which the candidate had
lost the sympathy of his audience and
was being heckled. Finally the chairman
got up and momentarily quelled the
clamor by asking if anybody wanted to
ask questions. A fierce little man jumped
up and said: “I would like the speaker
to tell us what he is going to do for the
returned soldier.” With a jubilant glint
in his eye the candidate upended himself
and solemnly remarked: “I am out to
give every returned soldier —every one,
mind you—a square deal.” “Is that ques-
tion answered to your satisfaction?”
asked the chairman, “It is,” said the
fierce one, sitting down ; and the meet-
ing concluded with three cheers for the
aspiring politician.
There was nobody in the audience in
or out of his senses who would have said
that the soldiers should get a raw deal,
so there was nothing to disagree with in
the politician’s statement, any more than
there is anything in the provisions of the
Atlantic Charter with which anybody
could disagree.
Being gregarious animals, all human
beings believe in beauty, truth, justice,
honesty and fair dealing rather than in
injustice, ugliness and evil doing. But
there are just as many conceptions of
what those abstractions mean as there
are parties, and with the advent of the
women there will be a few more added
to the melee.
CATASTROPHE IN FOUR SYLLABLES.
“Three syllables, Tripoli—there is more grief in them than we are able to express.”— Propaganda Minister at Rome .


Queensland
Insurance Go.
Ltd.
Head Office:
Pitt & Bridge Streets,
Sydney.
The Largest
Australian Company
Transacting
Fire, Marine, Accident, House-
holders’ Comprehensive, Workers'
Compensation, Boiler Explosion,
Machinery Breakdown, Aviation,
etc.
Evidence of
INTEGRITY and SECURITY
Essential when appointing your Trustee.
av/HEN you appoint an Executor and Trustee under your Will 3| ou should
** satisfy yourself as to bis integrity and that he has a _ < 3 u
perlence in handling Estates. You will be wise to assure yourself that you
Estate will be secure in his hands.
' wimi von anuoint Perpetual Trustee Company Limited you can rest assured
in both points In the management of Estates it brings to bear the judgment
gained by 60 year"’ experience. Unlike most individuals it has large capital
and reserve funds with consequent financial stability and responsihil y.
Send for a copy of “Your Executor and Trustee,” which explains the Company s
service.
PERPETUAL TRUSTEE COMPANY, LIMITED
DIRECTORS: T. H. Kelly (Chairman); Hon T. A. ' Gordon’ 0 ’ ’ E ' R ’ K "° X '
H. Norman Pope; Allen C. Lewis, W. Deuchar Gordon. Ma r>
Execmo?°anf\rSteei Sl Agenr' e un < ckr Power of Attorney for Absentees and others.
Administrator, etc. , nnn nnn
Trust and Agency Funds under Administration exceed £60,00 ,
33-39 HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY.
Southern and (M. District C W * SS “'
Western District Representative: H A Shaw, 14U noias i idee.
Beware of
Tired Kidneys
Men and women often suffer from
Backache, Rheumatism. Sciatica, ana
other ailments caused by the slowing
down of kidneys. By taking a course ot
DOAN’S
BACKACHE
KIDNEY PILLS
kidneys function properly.
SOLD BY ALL CHEMISTS
AND STOREKEEPERS.
Foster-McClellan Co.,
Proprietors,
15 Hamilton St., Sydney.
POLITICAL POINTS
York. The knowledge that £30,000 of
the money they’ve given to the A.C.F.
has been paid in excise is a shock
to generous Australians; the extortion
of £4500 on the cinema projectors is a
“woodeper.” The Labor Government
guilty of these unspeakable transactions
is wasting money like water on over-
time, Parliamentary committees, useless
“investigations” and countless other
abuses and tomfooleries.
Stated that the N.S.W. branch of the
A.L.P. will launch a weekly newspaper
early next month to “compete with
Lang’s ‘Century.’” So far, nothing has
been heard from the newsprint control
or man-power authorities about the pro-
ject, though Heaven help any private
concern that tried to start a newspaper
these times.
“The question of providing machinery
for the diversion of man-power from
civilian industries to the war effort was
discussed in Sydney on Wednesday by
Mr. Dedman and Mr. Ward.” The whole
country was already creaking with such
“machinery,” but admittedly “machin-
ery” is the right word when Ward and
Lang’s “Century” continues to pub-
lish his Conscription Barometer, but in
his last issue the Big Fellow was reduced
to snapping at Beasley and yapping at
Curtin, while dismally accepting the in-
evitable.
When Parliament assembles... .a Labor
P.M. will move for the adoption of con-
scription for overseas service. There will
be no referendum, no mandate from the
people; still there will be conscription.
But the rank and file of the Labor Move-
ment has not spoken. It will speak. It
will not be stifled.
This is in the best traditions of melo-
drama —a Ti-hime Will C-hum. Jack
always was an actor of the old school.
He is now to have further histrionic
opportunities, for the State A.L.P. execu-
tive has ordered him and all the other
antis to deliver a “written ; pledge of
loyalty” by February 4.
After many years, Beasley and Lang
have parted company. Lang tried to
work up trouble for his ex-lieutenant,
once so docile, in West Sydney, and had
great hopes that the local A.L.P. electo-
rate council would call upon the other
Jack to declare against his Government’s
militia-service policy. The electorate
council itself declared for the Govern-
ment’s policy (though the voting was
close —30 to 28); then it gave Beasley “a
unanimous vote of confidence.”
“A Second Front in Europe Now! ” has
long been substituted for “No Pig-iron
for Japan,” the war in Europe being the
only one that matters to pig-iron patriots.
Nevertheless, the old shout was heard
again at Brisbane’s City Hall when Men-
zies was speaking. He was ready for
them With a neat one: “There is one
thing 1 notice about Communists —their
bravery increases by the square of their
distance from Russia.”
There is a “Bulletin” in America, the
“Bulletin of the Association of American
Colleges.” In November it called atten-
tion to a prophetic utterance delivered
in 1932.
As the ideal of national service fades
into the background, as the necessity for
national defence is sacrificed in the name
of economy, the United States presents a
tempting spectacle. This temptation may
ultimately lead among the nations and
races eager for the sack of America to
alignments for another world war.
The prophet was General Douglas Mac-
Arthur.
Almost every day and in almost every
way Ward is giving the P.M. reasons for
dissevering him from his portfolio. After
meddling in the administration of the
N.S.W. police force on the ground that
it is a protected industry, this extraordi-
nary Minister rushed up to Queensland,
where, finding a shipyard strike raging,
he ordered the dismissal of two men
who had been fined by the Ironworkers’
“union” for something or other. The case
was taken to the Industrial Court, where
Chief Justice Webb drily said “the Min-
ister’s order has to be backed by a
National Security regulation, and to
date neither the Court nor the employers
have been informed of any such regula-
tion.” After a few more remarks in
his forthright style (“This is a strike
against Australia; it is Japan’s dirty
work—are Communists sponsoring it?”)
the Chief Justice told the men to go back
to work. They said they would go back.
Sinfully paltry, the dead limit in shab-
biness, are the demands for excise on
tobacco collected for the troops by the
A.C.F. and for “duty, primage and war
tax” on cinema projectors donated by
the Anzac War Relief Fund in New
EDDIE AND DEDDIE GO INTO CONFERENCE.
“As a result of a conference between Mr. Ward and Mr. Dedman, recommendations to meet
immediate man-power requirements will be submitted to Cabinet."
“And I say pig’s-tail to you, too!”
Dedman meet. Presumably another flock
of professors and lecturers will be
appointed by Deddie, and another crowd
of defeated Labor candidates and union
organisers by Eddie, unless Cabinet
demurs and refers the matter to Caucus.
If Caucus can’t agree, Curtin will pos-
sibly ask the seven A.L.P. executives to
decide it.
Lord Howe Island is in Ward’s constitu-
ency of East Sydney. It would make a
lot of people feel a lot less worried if
Ward decided to visit the most distant
part of his electorate—and stay there.
Diggers ought to be interested in the
Queensland local-government elections,
to be held on May 1. When the State
Opposition sought to have included in
the enabling bill a “prescribed measure
of . local-authority-employment prefer-
ence” to returned men, Premier Cooper
called it “flag-wagging” and Works
Minister Bruce claimed that the National
Security Regs, for the restoration of em-
ployment of returned men “make the
amendment totally unnecessary. An
amendment of the Coopers and Bruces
of politics seems totally necessary.
Value of gold won in Westralia fell
from £11,851,400 in 1941 to £8,865,400
in 1942 and is expected to have a further
severe fall this year. Mine workers in
the West have diminished from 16,000 to
4500. Thus the State with the best re-
cruiting record is the State worst hit by
the Man-power control, which has begun
to worry Curtin. It would be interesting
to know how lottery offices have been
affected.
War rumors are so rife in the U.S.A.
that the N.Y. “World-Telegram” is de-
voting a column to scotching them. Two
recent furphies so treated are of interest
to this country. One, which had a great
vogue, “particularly among negroes in
the Middle West,” until General Marshall
himself denied it, was that “through
gross carelessness or unnecessary expo-
sure a transport carrying 6000 negro sol-
diers was sunk off the coast of Austra-
lia.” Another, vouched for by the loose-
tongued Bridges, was that Australian
wines were being unloaded at San Fran-
cisco and Californian wines loaded there
for Australia. Matsons, wine importers,
the War Shipping Administration and the
British Agency, which allots space on
ships bound for Australia, testified that
it was all bunkum.
Mrs. Weber, M.L.A., of Victoria,
arrived in Sydney last week to launch a
“Women for Canberra” movement.
Aren’t there enough old women in the
place already?
A queer N.Y. “Daily Mirror note on
the Flynn appointment was that Churchill
had been asked to “clear” it (which
Churchill did) “because there can be only
one ambassador for the United States
in the British Empire.” In the case ot
the Dominions, if Dominion status is not
a sham, there can be as many as the
President cares to nominate and label,
and no Dominion Government would
think of objecting to the label
nominee. The note proceeds that “the
British are not unhappy about -Mr.
Flynn’s appointment, because Mr. Flynn
is very Irish and the British need more
ti^ s with Irish, Irish-Americans and
Irish-Australians.” It is conceivable that
somebody told the President that “Ed”
would find kindred spirits at Canberra
and other capitals.
Lloyd George, just turned 80, se>t a
message to “Willie” Hughes via F. R.
Lee a few months before that excellent
platform man went so close to defeating
Curtin in Fremantle ; and also, at Lee’s
invitation, one to Australia. Delivered
after a pause, it went this way:
Let the spectacular aspect of this war
look after itself. The Air Force will tell
its own story; the Navy always does; and
when we are able to assemble a big modern
army, and equip it, through its valor and
sacrifices it will lead us to victory. The less
spectacular aspects of this war are what
you Australian citizens need to watch.
Let me stress the importance of the Home
Front, because you may win on every other
front and still lose., On the Home Front the
people’s spirit must be maintained. It is
here that in a long war public morale may
tend to crumble, and it is here where such
vital problems as finance, food, clothing
and munitions supplies must be solved.
They call for great intelligence and vision.
Lee jotted it down and made an entry
in his notebook —“Wise and warning
words.”
Reading between the lines. Dr. Evatt is
as uneasy in his mind about the plague
of regulations as the Opposition politi-
cians who denounce them ; but there is
force in his contention that the denuncia-
tions are all made in general terms,
especially by Fadden, who “has had hun-
dreds of opportunities to move the dis-
allowance of regulations in Parliament.”
And it is true that “War-time delega-
tion to boards, commissions, councils and
committees” was started by the Menzies
Government and continued by Artie’s.
A month ago the N.S.W. Labor Gov-
ernment gave the chairmanship of the
Industrial Commission to a defeated
Labor candidate who had graduated from
the public service to the Bar. Last week
it gave a District Court Judgeship to a
defeated Labor Assemblyman who quali-
fied for the Bar while in the Lands De-
partment, In the second case the Gov-
ernment can claim that the appointee,
E. P. Kinsella, is a veteran of Gallipoli
and Flanders, and that in elevating him
it conformed to the spirit of the Returned
Soldier Preference Act, though as a rule
it forgets that measure entirely.
When news of the recapture of Schlus-
selburg arrived, Sydney “Sun” had an-
other paroxysm of Timoshenko worship.
Though its own cable definitely stated
that Zhukov and Voroshilov “co-ordi-
nated the attacks,” its first edition
sported a Timoshenko photo, (the office
must be stacked with them) labelled “Red
Army genius who lifted the siege of
Leningrad.” Photo, and label disappeared
from later editions.
“The large current Government deficit
should be financed on a sound basis to
ward off inflation. Inflation wipes out
the large middle class, the standard-
bearers of democracy.” Dr. Nadler,
Professor of Finance at New York Uni-
versity, said that, but it applies as much
to Australia as to America. And there
are politicians at Canberra who would
see the middle class wiped out without
a pang.
“S. M. Herald” lets itself go:
There can be no parallel in military his-
tory to General Montgomery’s 1000-mile
advance across Northern Africa. Here is
generalship of a high order—the kind of
generalship for which the Allies have been
looking through three years... .Mont-
gomery’s troops have been inspired to win
a signal victory against difficulties un-
matched in any other theatre of war.
Problems of movement and supply have
been mastered in a way which cannot be
equalled in earlier campaigns. Co-operation
between land and air forces has been flaw-
less.
All true, though Alexander’s share might
have been mentioned —he is in command
of the air, land and sea forces—but it
must have been gall and wormwood to
the Russia-Firsters among the “Herald s ’
contemporaries.


(Klamb
Gold Medal
PORT
PERSONAL ITEMS
The “long arm” never had a more
telling stretch than on the Tuesday of
this week, when Australia Day coincided
with the birthday of General Douglas
MacArthur, the man with the big job of
seeing that Australia will remain in posi-
tion to celebrate other Australia Days in-
definitely. General MacArthur was 63.
A young Invercargill (M.L.) chemist,
H. J. Elder, has been awarded the degree
of Doctor of Philosophy of the Zurich
University, together with a scholarship,
tenable for five years. Elder is only 21
and has never attended a university. He
carried out research in his own small
laboratory. When a student at Southland
Boys’ High School he prepared a thesis
and forwarded it to Harvard University
(U.S.A.). It earned him the degree of
Doctor of Science, and this amazing
achievement brought him to the notice
of Zurich. Elder is a native of Christ-
church.
Cables gave scant details of the death
of Australian-born war-author Richard
Hillary. It would not surprise if he died
from injuries suffered when, as a fighter
pilot, he was shot down in flames. Badly
burned, he landed by parachute in the
North Sea, was rescued in a desperate
state and subsequently underwent numer-
ous operations. Yet after all this he
wrote his vivid autobiographical book,
and then made a working visit to
America. Born in Sydney in 1919, he
rowed at Oxford, and was one of a crew
which, to have a holiday on the Con-
tinent, induced Governments there —
including the German Government —to
foot the bill for its tour. With scarcely
any training, and provided by the Ger-
mans with a leaky boat, the crew was re-
garded by the crack German crews as
beneath contempt. It licked them hollow.
Then it went on to be as badly licked
itself on the Danube. Here, with its
splendid win over the Germans in mind,
medals were struck in advance to be pre-
sented to its members after the race, and
a fresh lot had to be rushed through at
short notice for presentation to the vic-
torious locals.
Another leading war-author, Major
Eric Knight, was killed, along with 34
others, when a U.S. Army transport
’plane crashed near the Dutch Guiana
coast. Knight’s novel, This Above All,
dealing mainly with Dunkirk and the
later bombing of London, compares well
with the best of the 1914-18 war novels,
with which it has much in common.
Made Master of Surgery, an unusuai
and rare distinction, Dr. W. D. Park,
F.R.C.S., resident surgeon at London
Hospital and born at Hawthorn, Mel-
bourne. After a distinguished career in
his native city he. left 15 years ago for
London with his father, Dr. C. L. Park,
formerly Chief Commonwealth Medical
Officer in London. Dr. Roy L. Park,
the Test cricketer, is a nephew.
Jack Howe, son of the crack shearer
of the same name, is to have a shot at
the Barcoo (Q.) by-election. Now in the
A.M.F., he was a chemist, then took
up land, but later gravitated to shearing
sheds in N.S.W, and Queensland. There
he gathered data for a book on the life
of his father and on shearing and the
sheep industry.
A fellow who is as familiar with the
pubs of the world as a Riverina bagman
with the waterholes between Cudgegong
and Curlwaa is Roland Hill, running
American Travel Headquarters in Syd-
ney. In peace-time he can tell you any-
thing from the number of rooms in the
Waldorf-Astoria to what sort of a
breakfast you’ll get for Is. 9d. in a back-
country Balkan inn ; in war-time his ex-
perience is proving invaluable for all the
official people who have to travel
around the smoking world on their
countries’ business. Just lately he’s be-
ginning to wonder whether he’s infringing
Dorothy Dix’s copyright, since a lot of
Australian girls, engaged or married or
being proposed to by American service
men, drop in and check up on certain
claims. It’s a sort of poetic justice, a
rebound of the 1914-18 days when Aus-
sies told English girls about goanna
farms. Hill is N.S.W.-born, but speaks
with a cultured American accent, having
spent most of his time abroad. There are
few spots on the globe he hasn’t looked
over, and he confesses to a weakness for
snow sports in Switzerland and Scandi-
navia. A great believer in Australian-
American co-operation, he’s doing his
darnedest to encourage it, not only with
active membership of outfits like the
American Society, the Royal Empire
Society, the N.S.W. Travel League, the
Australian-American Co-operation Move-
ment, but with informative articles to
widely-circulated American magazines
like “Travel Trade.” He also gets out
instructive pamphlets for American ser-
vice men designed to help them know and
understand this country.
High Commissioner:
Canada’s new High Commissioner, Justice
Thomas Clayton Davis, wasn’t in this country
a fortnight before he set up a record. Asked
by Frith to sit as victim for one of his plasti-
cine modellings, the Judge fixed the time at
round about 9 a.m. It not only outraged Frith’s
alarm clock but beat the previous earliest
appointment record by two hours. And at
that Justice Davis was being considerate. His
own working day—every day!—starts not later
than 8 a.m. and goes on indefinitely. More-
over, he walks to work. In Canada he walked
four miles every morning to get to his job of
Deputy Minister of National War Services.
At Canberra he’s let off with only a bit over
a couple of miles. He likes Canberra. The
trees and blossoms there won him at once.
(Modelled by Frith.)
CANADA’S HIGH COMMISSIONER.
Asked what in Canada might correspond to it,
he had a good descriptive word lor sundry
Canadian cities, but concluded that there was
nothing like the planned, industry-free Com-
monwealth capital. He doubted if there was
anything so fine anywhere on earth. He didn't
mention Sydney Harbor at all! Australia,
there’s nothing surer, will like this Canadian.
Loaned by the Canadian Bench to the Canadian
Government to make the best possible use of
him, he gives the impression that he’d auto-
matically be a Judge in any country in the
world. Neatly dressed —“The English don’t
go in for mass production, but they do pro-
duce quality” probably suggests where his suits
come from —he could serve as the model of
a well-groomed English Justice. Hence it is
most unlikely that Australians will adopt the
breezy Canadian journalist familiarity of calling
him “Tommy.” Canadian journalists have also
made copy out of his hearty laugh and his
voice. They have told that, with all doors open,
he would dictate to a stenog. his legal, busi-
ness and private letters, and, because of the
boom in his voice, not only the rest of the
building but passers-by, the block and the town
itself would know just exactly what cases he
was then handling, what business he was inter-
ested in at the moment, and all nis private
affairs. There can’t be many men on earth as
openly honest as that indicates. What the
story omits is that Justice Davis can also be
quiet—and silent, too. He can be quiet with
a quick Irish wit spoken almost in an under-
tone. He stems from Dublin —mother born
there ; father’s parents also. He has a silent
—and Homeric —programme for getting to
know Australia. He reckons that by listening
to the Canberra debates he will learn much
about this country from the cross-sections
therein represented. After that he proposes
(it looks like a bid for a civil V.C.) to do the
State Houses as well! Now 52, he’s energetic
and enthusiastic enough to carry this pro-
gramme out. It will be no surprise if he does
it on foot.
When Churchill gave his “some chicken,
some neck” address in the Canadian
Commons, Justice Davis was seated only
a yard or two away. A whole battery
of powerful movie spotlights centred on
the P.M. They were like searchlights.
Forewarned, Churchill wore a special
pair of dark glasses; even so it surprised
Justice Davis how the old warhorse stood
in that blaze of light as if it was an
ordinary everyday affair. Afterwards
Churchill had an “off the record” talk
with Canadian newspaper owners and
editors. A hard-boiled lot, they threw
loaded questions heavily at Churchill.
Before the question was completely put
he would start off on the answer to it, as
well ending up always with a humorous
twist. Touching which it is told that
General Montgomery, on being given
charge of the Eighth Army, said to
Churchill: “I don’t smoke, I don’t drink
and I’m 100 per cent, fit.” Said
Churchill: “I smoke, I drink, and I’m
200 per cent, fit.”
“Bullswool”: Apropos the quest for
the first enlistments in the various States,
N.G.X. No. 1 was Sergeant F. L. Burke,
an Administration officer attached to the
Treasury at Rabaul. He was also the
first man to return to New Guinea, being
invalided home in 1941. He afterwards
had a narrow escape from the Japanese
when Rabaul was captured 12 months
ago and, in com-
pany with a few
others, made a
hazardous voyage
in a small craft to
Australia. He is
now back in New
Guinea with
A.N.G.A.U.
When S.A. Agent-
General Charles
McCann returns to
London he will
have another job
on his hands as
Australian wool-
growers’ represen-
tative on the Inter-
national Wool Sec-
retariat. McCann
has already done
great work for
Australian land in-
dustries, and the
wool side will be
in safe hands. In-
cidentally, it is re-
ported that Foster
Du Plessis, the S.
African representa-
tive on the secre-
tariat, is missing at
sea on a trip from
London to Cape-
town.
The James Watt International Medal
—highest award the Institution of
Mechanical Engineers bestows—has gone
to Melbourne consulting engineer
A. G. M. Michell. The honor has an
inter - Dominion flavor, Michell having
received the award on the nomination
of the leading engineering bodies of Aus-
tralia, South Africa and Canada.
William Dargie, who wins the Archi-
bald Prize for the second year in suc-
cession, is a 30-year-oid Melbourne-born
and -trained painter who during last year
was abroad with the A.I.F. as an official
artist. His 1942 winning picture, a por-
trait of Corporal Jim Gordon, V.C.,
shows evidences of having been painted
hurriedly, under service conditions. Such
eminent portraitists as Buckmaster, Car-
ter, Meldrum, Nathan, Hanke, I. Rowell
and Mary Edwards were in the lists.
Wynne Prize goes to 22-year-old Douglas
Watson, an East Sydney Tech, product
and a very versatile painter, who scored
with “Backyard,” apparently because the
judges were so tired of gum-trees. Sui-
man Prize rewards Jean Bellette for a
modern-flavored figure-piece. This Syd-
ney painter has studied abroad and has
had several exhibitions in her home city.
Corporal John French, V.C., is to be
commemorated in his own Queensland by
an annual prize to be associated with the
State scholarship examination. A very
good way of keeping his magnificent gal-
lantry at Milne Bay fresh in the minds
of succeeding generations of Australians.
O. V. Morris, the Bendigo Rotarian
who goes to Hobart to manage the Com-
mercial Bank there, is a Tasmanian re-
turning to his native heath. He was born
at Ulverstone and educated at Launces-
ton Grammar School. From Bendigo he
was promoted to the inspectorial staff
and then to the Martin-place, Sydney,
managership. His work for Rotary got
him to the club’s international conference
at .Hobart.
From hard service with the A.I.F. in
Egypt, Libya and Syria to the job of
chief architect of one of Britain’s largest
railways, the Great Western, is the his-
tory since 1940 of Lieutenant Brian B.
Lewis. A Tasmanian, he is a son of
J. B. Lewis, of Melbourne, and a brother
of the manager of the Commonwealth
Bank in London. He learnt architecture
at the Melbourne University, and prac-
tised it in London. The British Gov-
ernment asked the A.I.F. to hand him
over.
Paymaster-Commander R. G. A. Jack-
son, 0.8. E., who holds the important
position of Director-General, Middle
East Supply Centre, is on loan from the
Australian Navy. He has the gigantic
job of creating a vast scheme of produc-
tion from Iran to Cairo, aimed not only
at making the Middle East self-support-
ing for both civilian population and
armies in war-time but of laying the foun-
dation for an Oriental renaissance like
unto the days when the Tigris and
Euphrates were as fertilising as the Nile.
Originally a paymaster in Melbourne, his
brilliance and organising ability have
pushed him to the forefront of the British
civil service and given him the passport
to every Cabinet Minister’s private office.
Into the silence:
At 88, in Adelaide, John White, a chemist
who in his leisure hours produced occasionally a
painting which the National Gallery was glad
to acquire.
In Brisbane, Henry Joseph Ryan, former
M.L.A. for Cook, who entered Parliament with
Forgan Smith and Premier Cooper in 1915.
He lost the seat to J. A. Kenny in 1929, and
thenceforward stuck to his private business.
He had a wide knowledge of Queensland mining
and pastoral industries.
At 50, Alan Robinson, of the O'Mara and
Robinson legal firm; a conspicuous figure in
Brisbane in the truest sense; a big man physi-
cally and in every other way. From Too-
woomba originally, he was president of the
Queensland Law Society.
At Culcairn (N.S.W.), P. T. Heywood, 86,
grazier and sportsman. His horses won most
of the important races in the V.R.C. calendar,
including a Melbourne Cup with Artilleryman.
At Molong (N.S.W.), Hugh Victor Foy, 75,
Ex-managing director of Mark Foy’s, he was
interested in several branches of sport, and im-
ported from Ireland some of the best grey-
hounds ever to perform in Australia. He led
an expedition in a vain search for “Lasseter’s
lost reef.”
Lieutenant-Colonel C. C. Judd, who, when
goldmining at Wau, New Guinea, after the
last war, used experience gained on Gallipoli
and in France to train a volunteer force of
Australians and natives. With the present
outbreak he lejoined the Army. He began as
a railway man at Wangaratta (Vic.).
In England, at 84, John Burns, first working
man to become a member of the British
Cabinet. He represented Battersea from 1892
to 1928. A pacifist, he resigned from the
Cabinet when war came in 1914. It was a sacri-
fice to principle, for he could have done with
the money; and, though fond of making
speeches, he imposed silence on himself through-
out the war.
In England, at 79, Lord Hirst, head of
General Electric and a member of the eco-
nomic mission to Australia in 1927. Edward
Hirst, a cousin, is, with knight Harry Brown
(at present on loan to the Commonwealth),
joint managing director of General Electric
in Australia.
At Christchurch (M.L.), 76, Henry Dyke
Acland, lawyer. Son of J. B. A. Acland, one
of Canterbury’s “shepherd kings,” he gradu-
ated at Oxford, being admitted as a barrister-
at-law at the Inner Temple in 1891. He spent
some years in N. S. Wales, where he married
a daughter of James Watson, M.L.C., and re-
turned to Fernland in 1904 to enter into part-
nership with Frederick Wilding, father of tennis
champion Anthony. Acland was a past-presi-
dent of ihe N-Z. Sheepowners’ Federation, was
for ten years chairman of Canterbury College
Board of Governors, sat for years on the Christ-
church City Council, and was chairman of the
N.Z. Railway Board in 1924. A ruddy-faced,
vigorous man who seemed to bring the breezes
of the plains into court with him, he stood for
tolerance and commonsense in all his public
relationships.


Society
"AND IT'S PRINTED
WITH WIMBLE'S INKS"
“Loopy Louee”: For a good while I’ve
thought about what the mob does now-
adays on Sundays that in other days
went joyfully off for a day on the moun-
tains or beaches or in the national parks,
climbing into public vehicles with the
missus, the kids and the lunch. I found
out last Sunday, when I attempted to take
my two kids to Sydney's zoo. After we’d
got out from under the feet and elbows
we found ourselves still on the Quay. Yet
I'm certain that at one stage of the fight
we were on the ferry.
* * *
“Dhas”: Myself, I’d have done some-
thing drastic to Ezra Pound long ago
for writing an incomprehensible poem in
ten thousand lines; but Fm rather sorry
to see that the American Government is
likely to indict him for treason. Not that
he didn’t ask for it —broadcasting over
Rome Radio! But I regard Ezra as not
so much a traitor at heart as a sad case
of failure before the invincible insularity
of the English literary world. He and
Eliot, two bright American young men,
crossed the Atlantic years ago to set the
Thames on fire. Finding the water staying
cold and wet, as it does in England,
Pound fled to the Continent and, in the
section of his Cantos which corresponds
to Dante’s Purgatory, retaliated by put-
ting the entire English nation in hell.
Foolishly translating his literary bitter-
ness into political terms, he took up with
three faiths, each more ridiculous than its
predecessor—Douglas Social Credit, Mos-
ley’s Fascism and Mussolini. Eliot, who
did set the Thames alight, did it by be-
coming infinitely English: an expert on
the Elizabethans, a pillar of the Anglican
church and —on a trip to Sweden during
the war —a “cultural ambassador.”
* * * *
“Bayswaterloo”: The saying about
communities that live by raking in each
other’s washing used to be a joke, but
it is a joke no longer in these days of
flats and women war workers. In Syd-
ney the laundry has come into its own,
and the pressure of business is such that
few laundries will accept new customers.
Further, petrol and man-power restric-
tions have cut down hard on the old sys-
tem of collection and delivery of the
weekly wash, and today you may meet
the biggest local bigwig humping a bundle
of sheets. The dirty linen is being con-
veyed in prams, on bikes, in suitcases or
slung over one arm both to and from
the wash.
* * * *
“Bo”: Those not-so-often-in-the-house
wives who prepare meals with a can-
opener and salve their consciences, if
any, by professing to discover high vita-
min values in anything enclosed by tin-
plate have watched with anxiety a pro-
gressive shrinkage of their culinary field.
Some have even faced the awful possi-
bility of having to do some cooking. But
manna has fallen from a comestible
heaven. Some small tins on the grocery
shelves of a big Sydney store caught my
eye. They were labelled Grenouilles d
la Paulette. Underneath, in smaller
letters, was the translation, not quite so
impressive in bald English: “Frogs’
Legs.” At Is. sd. a mouthful! Vive la
Belle France! Even in her travail she
thinks of the poor Australian housewife
—at a price, of course.
« * * *
“V. Cluse”; If you live in Sydney
you get news served up to you in style.
Out at Manly some boys saw a big fish
cruising about and chucked stones at the
thing, which ignored them and eventually
drifted off into deeper water. Nothing
in that? Says you! Out came an
afternoon paper with the headline
“Schoolchildren ‘Bomb’ Shark,” and a
story in which the movements of the fish
were fully charted, with the insinuation
that it was heading for 200 bathers with
the deliberate intention of biting them.
And that night the news of the astound-
ing event was broadcast over the national
radio. If ever Sydney’s beach councils
“Your moorings be hanged! We got in first."
find their beaches deserted they’ll know
whom to blame.
* * * *
“Pitt St.”: Struck an absentee from a
munitions factory in a pub (never mind
what 1 was doing there) and murmured
to him something about the need for
keeping the machines going and the
Prime Minister’s constant appeals for
workers to keep at it. “Aw, me foot,” he
exploded, and half the bar could hear
him ; “they got stuff piled up all over the
place. Half the bloomin’ factories are
ahead of orders. No need for anyone
to bust himself.” Upon this, a by-
stander weighed in with a supporting
statement to the same effect. A great
many people believe that the country is
now so well stocked with munitions that
it isn’t necessary to work full time and
that some factories are laying off hands
because of that. Silly, of course, since
one ack-ack gun would use 130 or 140
shells in a five-minute burst of firing.
Simple multiplication would show these
people how quickly munitions would be
used when things were happening.
* * * *
“Crowder”: I see that in an ecstasy
of zeal Sydney’s Road Transport Com-
missioner is employing men to haul
people off overcrowded buses, whether
they've paid their fares or not; one
woman says she nearly had her leg
pulled off. People stand in queues wait-
ing for buses that go out Bondi way (just
as they did in England in 1914-18) and
daren't use the seats provided for wait-
ing passengers because if they did they d
wait for ever instead of just an hour or
so. Sydney always was addicted to
queues. It is, I suppose, the only city
in the world where people queue up to
buy postage stamps at the G.P.O. —a
practice of 20 years’ standing—and
recently the queue system has been intro-
duced in city banks. Most of these
queues mind their own business, so to
speak, and don’t interfere with anyone
else, but there’s one that Commissioner
Hartigan ought to take a look at. At
certain busy hours it stretches across the
Wynyard ramp, hampering access to the
railways. It consists of patrons of the
bottle department of the Plaza Hotel,
which seems to do an outsize business.
Why it is allowed to do any business at
all, seeing that it has no accommodation
for boarders, is a very old mystery.
* * * *
“Ologist”: Originally dialect English,
the word “finagle” (in its participial
form “finagling,” misprinted as “finang-
ling” in some cases) has reached Aus-
tralia in statements made by Americans.
In the U.S.A. “finagle” would seem to
be in fairly general use, but I should say
the word is unfamiliar to most Austra-
lians. Questing for enlightenment, I
found that Webster lists “finagle” sepa-
rately as a variant of “fainaigue,” but
couples it with the latter word in the
details of pronunciation, grammatical
classification and meaning. Both words
function as transitive and intransitive
verbs, and they mean “to revoke at cards ;
hence, to shirk; to use underhand
methods ; to cheat; to intrigue.” “Fai-
naigue” is a two-syllable word (fai-
naigue), the first “ai” having the pro-
nunciation of the “a” in “sofa,” the
second “ai” that of the “a” in “ale.’ In
“finagle” the “i” is pronounced as the “i”
in “charity,” the “a” again long as in
“ale”; the “gle” is represented by “g’l.”
Nouns are “fainaiguer” and “finagler.”
“Craiser”; Sir Tummas BeechanTs
charge of “extreme cruelty” against his
wife because he received from her “only
carping criticism of my chosen work
looks like going down in history as one
of the curiosities of divorce litigation.
Sir Tummas added that he had distri-
buted one and three-quarter million
dollars among his wife and two sons. If
any man should know that you can't buy
affection Beecham should. When he
picked up the baton in Australia the
orchestra would become as taut as one
of its own fiddle strings. Players forgot
for the moment that they had wives and
husbands, lovers and girl friends, but-
chers’ bills and rheumatics, and they
played as they could never play for
other conductors. Yet Sir Tummas
hardly interfered at all. When players
would ask him if there was something
wrong with their playing he would reply
“You’re playing all right.” Sometimes
he would indicate an accent here and an
accent there, but he put on no show of
anguish or delight like the traditional
temperamental conductor. Beecham
could magnetise and stimulate an orches-
tra because he held music in tremen-
dously high esteem. Arrogant to his con-
temporaries, in relation to music he w'as
humble. He has been a great conductor
of orchestras the world over, but as a
conductor of domestic relationships he
had no luck.
* , * * *
“Melbn”: Almost at its inception the
“Women to Parliament” movement has
suffered a setback in Melbourne. A
public meeting at the Prahran Town Hall
was “somewhat unruly,” as one of the
aspirants put it, but after an hour or so,
she said, the hecklers left and the meeting
was held in peace and quiet. It was
decided, however, to hold future meet-
ings in private homes in order to be free
from interruptions. The women will have
to be made of sterner stuff than this if
they want to hurl themselves into the
political hurly-burly in order to save the
nation. It would be difficult to imagine
George Reid announcing that as a speech
of his had been rudely interrupted he
would confine himself to suburban draw-
ing-room conversations. Even Billy
Hughes, not averse to a bit of opposi-
tion, lost prestige when he founded the
Commonwealth Police because a well-
aimed egg was thrown at him at War-
wick.
sK * * *
“Mandarin”: If the Chinese have re-
duced their picture-writing from 45,000
characters to 1000 (B. 13/1/ ’43) the
trouble must be that in their newsprints
they never use the same thousand two
days running. I have memorised a thou-
sand characters, but that still leaves me
in . the lurch when I pick up a Chinese
newspaper. I can only unscramble the
headlines, advertisements and bits here
and there. The Chinese idea of combi-
nation to form ideographs is certainly
quite logical in most Sun with
moon, for instance, signifies “bright, a
heart squeezed into a doorway is ‘ melan-
choly or dull,” while “market town” is
represented cynically as “gold before
“truth.” Less easy to follow are such
combinations as “let go heart” (for
“make your mind easy”), “one fix’ (tor
“certainly”) and “that this” (for
“mutual”). The word “thing” is simply
“east west.”
* * * *
“Hamfat”: The feminine habit of
gaining height by wearing high heels
came from the stage. The earliest refer-
ence in my memory was in a tome of
theatrical titbits in which was quoted a
comment about “'Court ladies who copy
the tricks of Peg Woffington in raising
the heels of her shoes, so as to ape the
appearance of tragedy queens.” Giving
greater height when it was deemed neces-
sary, not only by high heels but height-
eners inside the heel of the shoe, has
always been a stage trick; the
theatrically-useful device probably
made its way outside generally in
the ’nineties, when the patronage
of Edward VII gave theatricals a
boom and the fashion favored tall
and ample ladies.
.•jc Jjs H*
“Bass Strait”: J. H. M. Abbott’s
sketch of the Tichborne claimant
(B. 30/12/ ’42) reminds me that the
“fat liar” made his Australian
debut in Hobart, where he arrived
in 1852 in charge of two Shetland
ponies imported by T. D. Chap-
man, a Tasmanian notability of the
day. He did his job well on the
voyage, even stinting himself of
water when it ran short, in order
that the ponies might not suffer.
He asked Chapman for a job as a
coachman, but Mrs. C. pronounced
him too rough and dirty. Orton
retaliated in his Memoirs 40 years
afterwards by stating that he didn't
take it on because the Chapmans
had the reputation of being nigger-
drivers. He worked for a while
in an Elizabeth-street butchery, and
then crossed to the mainland to
join in the Victorian gold rush.
Here he met a colored man who
had been with Roger Tichborne when
Roger died, and had in his possession
many letters and personal papers, which
Orton got hold of. A disqualified soli-
citor whom he met at the diggings is said
to have suggested the impersonation that
put Wagga on the map.
ON THE HOME FRONT.
“Three Sydney tailoring firms have been fined
£CO apiece under National Security Regulations for
making (.1) double-breasted coats, (2) trousers with
more than three pockets and (3) coats with more
than four pockets and more than the prescribed
number of buttons.”
Wrong, was it wrong? Assuredly, because
Sartorial artists might have known it was,
Or, if they didn’t, well, they should have done,
Since ignorance of laws excuses none
For breaking them —an axiom quite as true,
It would appear, of regulations too
ytnd vetoes, more especially of such
As carry the authentic Dedman touch.
Waistcoats, as every schoolboy ought to know,
With acid emphasis he’s ruled de trap,
Garments on whose construction none should
waste.
Until the war is won, his time and taste.
Risks, too, attend the craftsman who devotes
His energies to double-breasted coats
Or pants with cuffs. Such frills in times like
these
Rank as superfluous amenities.
Pants-pockets three he counts suffishient
Tc satisfy the most exacting gent..
And in a coat the maximum is four.
No patriotic soul should ask for more
When every tap of needless effort means
Twill take us longer to give Nippon beans,
And even modest calico and thread
Are articles that should be husbanded.
And what of buttons? As inexorably
Our Dedman turns on them his eagle eye.
Woe to the tailor who on suits shall tack
But one above the statutory whack!
His careless disregard for what’s forbid
Is like enough to cost him twenty quid,
And leave him to regret his workmanship,
At once a sadder and a wiser snip.
Ah, me! Assuming world-wide wars could be
Won by attention to minutiae
On the home front, restrictions sharp and stern.
The sort of ukases wherefrom we learn
That all we are, right down to what we wear,
Is Dedman’s now, rather than our, affair,
What theme for admiration he provides,
The Minister who rations “kicks” in “strides.”
N.S.W.
T. THE R.
LLOYD GEORGE.
What changing scenes he's figured in, what
weighty . ,
Burdens he’s shouldered in a lifetime s space.
From flaming twenty-seven up to eighty
Through ups and downs alike he’s kept his
place.
While others came and went he stayed resistant,
His grip on his electors never loosed.
The lone survivor from that era distant
When Salisbury ruled the roost.
Wizard of Wales, with all the arts effective
In controversy of your Celtic tribe,
From passionate appeal to barbed invective,
From homely metaphor to biting gibe,
Although the party you were wont to rally
Has shrunk to nothingness this many a day,
Still, when you speak, 1 note you’ve generally
Something worth while to say.
How large you used to loom among the actors
With whom you trod the Parliament’ry stage!
Few ever owned, along with fierce detractors,
Such thick-and-thin adherents, I’ll engage.
And when your leader Asquith you succeeded,
Forgetfulness would be beyond excuse
That Britain found in you the man she needed
To cook the Kaiser’s goose.
The feuds of old, the factions of aforetime,
The animosities of days gone by,
Are relegated to the past in war-time,
Fade —or at any rate they should —and die.
Now, with your 80 on the scoring board, you
Have earned warm birthday greetings, all
agree.
Wc raise our glasses as we look toward you:
“Here’s all the best, L.G.!”
N.S.W.
IFORD.


“Lucky for you, my man, it was a dud!”
“Tuart”; A racy American journalist.
Bob Davis, of the New York “Sun,” was
moved during his last illness to write a
whimsical study of the love-life of
Brigham Young, having collected the
material himself. Correcting previous
historians, he affirmed that Brigham was
“sealed” ( i.e ., wedded for all eternity) to
24 wives, and lived in wedlock with 19.
Four of the ladies were childless ; the
others presented him with 56 pledges of
affection, and “it is estimated that 2500
men and women have lived because of
his fecundity.” They were not degenerate
by any means: three of the sons were
men of distinction, and the family talent
was transmitted:
A long list of artists, scholars, musicians,
architects and businessmen of rare ability
bears the name of Young, and others from
the distaff side are numbered among those
of high attainments.
Brigham was mourned by 17 widows,
none of whom took another mate or a
share in one. Their lord made generous
provision for them, leaving each a life-
lease of the love-nest, $20,000 or the
equivalent and an annual income “to
meet all necessities.”
* * IK *
“Harold Hardupp”: A private Gallup
across what Gallupers call “a cross sec-
tion of society” convinces me that the
solid breakfast is obsolescent. It was
something so well established that “he’s
as likely to go without breakfast” as not
do something or another is a familiar
phrase, but nowadays most people seem
to be satisfied with a cup of tea and a
slice of toast. A veteran butcher, brought
into the cross-section, recalled the days
when he used to open his shop at half-
past five to provide the morning chops,
steaks and sausages. Now he doesn’t
open till eight. My own breakfasts, I
notice, are now comparatively light—a
plate or so of porridge, some eggs or
fish and a comparatively small helping
of meat, rounded off with half a dozen
slices of toast and marmalade and a little
stewed or fresh fruit, with coffee to wash
it down.
* * * ♦
“Bordertown”: A year or so ago I read
one of A. R. Wetjen’s yarns about the
“South Australian Mounted” in the
“Saturday Evening Post,” and, question-
ing the atmosphere and background, I
dropped a note to the “Post.” In due
course I received a reply from “The Edi-
tors,” who said they were fully satisfied
after extensive inquiries as to the author’s
credentials. They further hinted that I
knew little about the atmosphere of Cen-
tralia, whereas Wetjen had been there.
Wetjen writes a very readable yarn, and
when the venue is Australia only an
Aussie can pick holes in it. It makes me
wonder just how much truth there is in
the stories we read about Texas, the High
Veldt, the South Sea Islands or the
Yukon.
* * * *
“Nakhoda”: A mild dispute has
broken out in Melbourne over the pro-
nunciation of the name Timor. A.B.C.
has one version and lesser alleged authori-
ties have others. The only safe guide
in all these cases is custom. If you are
talking Malay it is correct to say “Tee-
mor,” and a native wouldn’t understand
you if you didn’t. The word means
east, and the island gets that name for
a very obvious reason. Timor was doubt-
less the last hopping-off place for
Buginese raiders when they were sail-
ing for the great south land to pick up
trepang and aboriginal slaves for the
sultans of Java in the pre-Dutch days
of the Modjopait empire. If you are
speaking English it is “Ty-mor,” because
that is the corruption which became cus-
tomary after English voyagers began to
touch there. It is as pedantic for A.B.C.
to insist on “Tee-mor” as it would be for
that centre of literary culture to insist on
“Paree” for Paris.
* * * *
“L’Allegro”: If “R.T.” (B. 13/'l/’43)
is correct, quite a number of Australians
have been fooled. In 1916 “Bahai” was
first known in Melbourne. The chap who
introduced me to it said—and the cult
confirmed it —that Bahai was not a man’s
name but an Indian word meaning
“united” or “welded together.” The
declared object of Bahai was to form a
“world brotherhood” or “fellowship”
embracing all religions without excep-
tion. On that basis it made its appeal to
a certain class of religious people. The
refusal to solicit or accept baksheesh
reported by “R.T.” must be a new de-
velopment ; collections were taken at the
meetings held in Melbourne. I haven’t
been able to find a single adherent (or
“Bahian”) in Australia for many years.
* * * *
“Feng-Shui”; Now that Britain and
U.S.A, have signed treaties with China
abolishing extra-territorial rights, one of
the nastiest bones of contention between
European and Asiatic has gone into
the discard. Those rights never were
worth anything. Though ostensibly aimed
at protecting foreigners against the
vagaries of Chinese justice, they led to
far more suffering, hatred and misunder-
standing than they prevented, culminat-
ing 15 years ago, when tens of thousands
of Chinese set out to recover the foreign
settlement at Hankow by physical pres-
sure. For hour after hour they pressed
their bodies against those of the thin line
of British soldiers who had been ordered
to protect the settlement but not to fire
a shot or use the bayonet. The soldiers
kept their tempers, but they couldn’t
hold the dyke against this flood of human
waters, and eventually the mob swarmed
through and occupied the oasis of Euro-
pean culture. Despite gloomy prognosti-
cations to the contrary, a council of
Chinese and Europeans ran the town
afterwards just as well as it had been run
before under white jurisdiction. The
Parsees and Armenians never had extra-
territorial rights in Asia, but everywhere
they lived they made themselves wealthy
and powerful.
* * sK *
“F.S.”: The theft of one picture and
the attempted theft of another from the
National Gallery in Melbourne suggest
a lack of discrimination on the part of
the miscreant or miscreants. The theft
that didn’t come off was that of Tom
Roberts’s “Portrait of a Man,” on loan
to the Gallery. It was found stuffed
behind a picture by Max Meldrum. The
other was “Cottage Interior,” by the
French artist Pierre Edouard Frere,
bought in 1872, and valued now at £3O.
It was hard by two Corots valued at
round £4OO. This could not have
happened in Paris. Every workman and
taxi-driver and probably every profes-
sional burglar would know the relative
values of the pictures in the Louvre, just
as every Italian street arab knows most
of his national operas backwards.
* * * *
“Legerdemain”: The manager of the
country branch was having trouble balanc-
ing his books when word arrived that the
auditor was on his way. He toyed with
the idea of a sensational flutter on the
turf, but faith in his ability to pick ’em
had been weakened by sad experience,
and he finally plumped for the firestick.
The office was weatherboard and dry as
tinder. To give the business a note of
authenticity he announced his projected
departure by the Saturday evening train
for a week-end in the city, and took his
suitcase containing sporting clobber and
a brand-new suit to the office. An hour
before train time he was in the pub sip-
ping a mug of ale when the alarm was
given. It was all over in ten minutes,
the whole, including suitcase and con-
tents, a glowing mass of ashes —with one
exception. It is extremely difficult to
burn books, and there amidst the embers,
singed but otherwise sound, stood silent
accusers —the office ledgers. The Judge
said something about “five years.”
s*C * * *
“Chevroford”: Since the Melbourne
City Council divulged its high aspira-
tions for the future of the city by appoint-
ing an after-war planning committee the
dailies have been deluged with sugges-
tions, from roofing over the Jolimont
railway yards and putting the Town Hall
on top to erecting towering piles of
workers’ flats in the industrial suburbs.
Considering that aviation experts are
confidently predicting bombers capable
of travelling non-stop from any one spot
on the globe to any other and returning,
these seem to me superfluous specula-
tions unless an entirely different world
emerges from the present welter. The
tendency should be for future cities to
dig themselves underground like moles
rather than to tower like eagles, I daresay
Nineveh and Tyre and Ur and Babylon
had town-planning committees.
* * * *
“Pawang”: A few months ago mili-
tary authorities asked Australian scien-
tists to experiment for a repellent to cope
with the anopheles mosquito. Existing
examples, as anybody knows who has
had the misfortune to have to live with
users, are of a sort that would convey
to enemy noses convincing evidence of
the presence of troops using them. The
way the scientists went about it was
reminiscent of the methods Sir Ronald
Ross, the discoverer of the guilty party
in the malarial infection, employed him-
self in India. They shut themselves for
weeks in a sealed tent in Canberra and
allowed mosquitoes to bite them while
they tested various repellents. An inves-
tigator then went to Cairns with the
chosen substance and continued the tests
under service conditions. Contracts have
since been placed with manufacturers for
£24,000 worth of a preparation which, if
it turns out to have long-lasting qualities,
is likely to evoke interest wherever the
anopheles mosquito flourishes.
* # * *
“Spokeshave”; Rumors of the new
morality have entered the schoolroom
apparently. A Victorian schoolmarm
who for good business reasons was giv-
ing up the profession told her class be-
fore the Christmas break-up that she
would not be seeing them again. “Who
are you going to marry, miss?” was the
almost unanimous and natural question.
“I’m not going to marry anyone,” re-
plied the teacher. “Then who is the
man you’re going to live with?” asked
the youngest pupil.
♦ * * *
“A.R.P.”: Sydney’s N.E.S. Minister
breaks out periodically in the press
with A.R.P. personnel and equip-
ment statistics. They look fine —on
paper; but if Mr. Heffron cares
to go over some of the N.E.S. divi-
sions in his city and suburbs he’ll
find a heavy falling off in attendances at
posts, etc., though it must be admitted
that the women haven’t lost interest to
the same extent as the men. Far too
many people have been misled by press
and radio into believing that the war
will be over by Easter, about which time
they fully expect the Russians to be in
Berlin, the British in Rome and the Japs
yelling for mercy.
“Ear Punisher”: Dunstan is seriously
concerned because of the growing apathy
amongst A.R.P. wardens, 35 p.c. or more
being absent at rehearsals. What did he
expect? His officials began by decreeing
dark streets and the removal or boarding-
up of all the window glass in the city.
The regulations were too drastic to com-
mand full compliance, and when the
crucial scare was over officialdom began
to lose its interest in enforcing them.
Gradually windows began to brighten in
the city, and some of the worst offenders
were the offices of State departments.
Wardens react to the sort of lead the
authorities give them.
* * *
“X.S.”; Rationing is producing a new
class of shoplifter in Melbourne. For-
merly, these marauders were divided into
two classes —the ordinary thief and the
well-to-do kleptomaniac. The new class
is made up of people who invariably have
a depleted ration-book in their purses,
plus plenty of money.
* * * *
“Oxbro” recollects some pub history:
The Black Horse Inn at Richmond (N.S.W.)
has been delicensed for a considerable time,
but the ancient building still stands in the
pretty Hawkesbury town. Its first license to re-
tail liquor bears the date February 20, 1819,
though it may have been some sort of a tavern
even before then. Paul Randall was its original
host, highly respected by contemporaries. He
was described years afterwards by one of
Richmond’s old identities as a short, stout man
whose wife had much the same sort of figure.
They were succeeded by their daughter, who
married a Dr. Seymour, and the pair carried
on the place for many years. Dr. Seymour
died in 1858 and his widow in 1875. The inn
was a favorite resort of “fashionable” Sydney,
and its old register contains the names of Sir
John Young, Governor of N.S.W. 1861-68,
Charles Cowper, S. Lasseter, H. C. Dangar,
T. S. Mort, M. H. Stephen, H. P. Abbott and
a great many others who counted for a good
deal about 75 years ago. The register is still in
existence as a treasured possession of the de-
scendants of Mrs. Seymour’s adopted daughter,
Sophia Westbrook, who married William Sly.
The Slys ran the place for a couple of genera-
tions.
* * * *
“Pawang”: Adverting to the U.S.
Supreme Court ruling that the test of
patent validity is whether or not the in-
vention reveals a “flash of creative
genius” “23-4” (B. 6 /12/ ’42) says that
the great novel, play, poem or short story
is no flash, but a creation of tears and
sweat. Yet it often appears to come by
inspiration, as when Wagner put aside an
unfinished opera for 20 years and then
suddenly one day the whole thing un-
folded itself to him when he heard a
gondolier singing in Venice. Probably
the work was all being done in Wagner’s
mind when he was full of discourage-
ment and suffused with boredom. Ber-
trand Russell, the philosopher, says some-
where that much of his thinking is done
in his sleep. When he is confronted with
some knotty problem he thinks about it
from all sorts of angles and then com-
pletely dismisses it from his mind. He
often finds that the problem has resolved
itself when he wakes up in the morning.
But the work had all been done before-
hand.
When “a man's a man for a' that "?


ABORIGINALITIES
“Old-timer”: The new hand was a
supple sort of bloke who frequently
amused us in our hours off by showing
how he could get free of ropes, chains
and other forms of restraint. Succes-
sively we locked him in the hut, the cook-
house, the toolshed and the homestead
cellar. He got out of the lot. We began
to work out ways and means of holding
him, but he had us stopped all the time
because, by virtue of training and experi-
ence, he had looked the entire place over
and knew how to handle any of its con-
finement areas. But the old boss beat
him. Yes, he laid him ten bob to five
he could put him in a place that he
wouldn’t get out of in half an hour, had
the bet taken, got the boys to muster and
pack 5000 wethers into the big horse
ring, then put his nibs in the middle of
them and shut the gate. It took 32 minutes
exactly for the escapologist to work his
way through that mass of wool, meat and
dust, and he was a silent and morose
man as he coughed up the five bob.
* * sR ♦
“Fielder”: Joe had been dynamiting
the river for fish with fair success until
the policeman was put wise by an indig-
nant resident. First night the cop am-
bushed on the spot Joe came down with
Darkie, his new cattle-dog. In went the
plug and after it went Darkie. ,Out
hopped the sergeant, and when Joe got
his breath there was Darkie beside him
with the plug in his mouth and the
winded cop only 20 yards back. Joe
said “Good boy, sool ’em,” and made
for the river. A few minutes later there
was a double splash as the cop landed
in beside Joe, while Darkie, still holding
the plug, awaited orders on the bank
above. Joe seized the opportunity with
both wet hands, made a deal with the
sergeant and shouted “Drop it!” to the
dog. They kept well out from the bank
until the plug struck the water and bits
of the Murray registered flood level.
Then they all trudged home together,
members of a triple alliance for life.
it. * * *
“No. 1 Bench”: I was surprised to
learn from “Esk D.” (B. 23/12/’42) that
Long Ned, after all his ingenuity in rig-
ging a water-driven sawmill from the re-
mains of the old battery, had to aban-
don the project because “after a week
there wasn’t a usable belt or rivet on the
job.” Why didn’t he loosen his main
driving belt an inch or two and insert
a loose pulley alongside the fast one on
the countershaft? The tendency of a
belt when it encounters an unexpected
burden is not to break but to run off.
And it will always run off on the side
of the edge that is the slacker —it is
practically impossible to lace or rivet a
belt so that it is equally taut on both
edges. So if a loose pulley idles along
on that side, which I have found is
usually the left side in the direction the
belt is running, the suddenly overloaded
belt simply slips on to that pulley and
there is no breakage at all, irrespective
of whether the motive power be the dead
weight of water, the expansive power of
steam, the thrust of an internal combus-
tion engine or the enchained lightning
of electricity. With the belt safely on
the loose pulley the log may be eased
back from the saw by driving in a wedge
in the saw-cut, and so the saw is re-
started and the log carefully put through.
“The 0.D.”: “B. A. Ker’s” cobber
(B. 20/1/’43) who couldn’t be taught to
swim until he dashed well had to or
drown was following out an old Austra-
lian belief, i.e., that the best way to teach
anybody the natatorial art is to heave
him in out of his depth. The trouble with
the bloke who, swimming once on being
cast adrift, found he could not swim
again in ordinary circumstances is psy-
chological. The sooner he gets pushed
in above his depth again the sooner he’ll
remember what he did last time.
* * * *
“Moyhu”; Bill thought it funny how
few chickens a hen reared compared with
the number of eggs set. His remarks
were prompted by a black hen and eight
chickens scratching about the woodheap.
“Take that hen,” he remarked reflectively;
“I put 15 eggs under her. She brought
out ten, and two died.” We continued to
watch the hen busily fending for her
charges. “Four will probably be roosters,”
I said by way of encouragement. “Yair,”
says Bill. “That leaves four pullets.
Cripes, you don’t get many out of a
settin’, do y’?” The hen and her family
moved away behind the woodheap. Sud-
denly, with a shrill squawk, she rushed
“You d’ seem turr'ble busy, Jan”
“Iss, caan't rest unless I'm doin' somethin'.”
into view with one chicken straining in
pursuit. We dashed around to find the
corpses of seven chickens strewing the
gr’ound and a mongrel foxie hoofing it
for the horizon. Bill made a move for
his gun, but realising it was too late
shook his head resignedly. “That leaves
one pullet—if it is a pullet,” he sighed.
“An’ by the time she’s laid enough
eggs to cover that settin’ and the
number of eggs her mother hasn’t laid
while she’s been rearin’ her, she’ll be too
old to lay.” Just then little Ernie rushed
up with the news that the remaining
chicken had entered into its reward under
the heels of Blossom, the cart mare.
A look of relief spread over Bill’s
whiskered features. “Good on it!” he
exclaimed joyfully. “Now the old girl
can get back on to the job!”
# * * *
“Bohemian”: Touching on the matter
of dossing places, the best nest I ever
struck was some iron pipe on waste land
in a Maoriland city. The beauty of this
dosShouse was that you could select a pipe
at any angle—they all pointed different
ways. Whichever way the wind was
blowing, and of course the rain, you
always were sure of a dry bunk.
# $ * *
“Sou’-west”; Idling along the main
street of a W.A. country town I struck
Tom Black waiting outside the one
beauty parlor. “It’s the missus ; she’s in
havin’ a hair-do,” he explained. Pres-
ently the missus emerged, wearing the
beatific smile of a woman who feels she
has done herself well. “How do you like
my hair?” she asked. Tom countered
with another question: “How much did
it cost?” “Only ten and sixpence.” “Huh,
that’s three bags of charcoal.” “Well,
don’t you like to see a girl’s hair looking
nice?” It certainly did look nice.
Minnie’s hair, of a soft dark lustre, with
a tiny natural wave, had been built
into rolls and curls of a beauty that
seemed unsurpassable. Yet I am old
enough to have seen Minnie’s grand-
mother. Her hair was a disgusting col-
lection of dogtails, bound with clay and
shining with rancid fat. Minnie repre-
sents the march of time in abo. circles.
9K * * *
“Naturala”: That insect resident in
“V. Cluse’s” bathroom since the rains
came (B. 23/12/’42) sounds like a pray-
ing mantis in quest of flies. The mantis
is dead nuts on flies ; an ingenious Ameri-
can started a mantis farm and hired out
expert hunters for the duration of the fly
season. Among insects the mantis is
remarkable in that it is the only species
endowed with a neck. Observe any other
insect and you will find that its head,
although separate, is closely attached to
the thorax. But the mantis is better pro-
vided with neck in proportion to its size
than the average human. One of the
advantages of this is that, since the
smaller male mantis invariably perishes
during the act of mating, the female is
able to reach back over her shoulder and
start a meal of him without delay. The
flexible neck is also handy for ordinary
feeding. To watch Mrs. Mantis dining
on a fly, daintily held between its two
immense front legs the while it bites off
pieces which it chews and swallows with
gusto, is to witness one of the oddest
sights in Nature.
* * * *
“Boxer”: Whenever a heavy electrical
storm comes to our part of the back
country out from Cobar (N.S.W.) I’ve
noticed the kangaroos always seek refuge
under a wilga tree. According to all in-
formation from both white and black
old-timers lightning has never been
known to strike one of these trees.
SR * * ale
“Mat’s Mate”: We’d been doing a
clearing job well back in the bush and
let our beards and hair grow. After five
months I looked pretty wild, but Mat was
a world-beater, with thick brown hair
to his shoulders and a rippling beard to
his waist. The weather started to warm
up, and what with the itch and the sweat
I decided the hirsute hobby had gone far
enough, and one Saturday I chopped my
hair short and got rid of the beard. Mat
lay in the shade and jeered at my weak-
ness. Next day the owner of the land
took it into his head to arrive at our camp
by car, with his missus, his daughter and
a couple of other females. Mat was up
the paddock at the time and I did the
honors at the camp, then we all walked
up the paddock and surprised Mat dig-
ging up a yam patch. The visitors were
thunderstruck at the sight of the hairy
giant rooting in the ground, and before
anyone could speak Mat got going like
a startled wallaby and vanished. Trying
to excuse him, I said “Aw, y’ don’t want
t’ worry. He’s one of them eleventh-day
adventurers, y’ know. He don’t mean no
harm.” “That’s all right,” says the boss,
“but see he don’t go near them lambin’
ewes I’m puttin’ in here nex’ week. I
don’t want them upset.” Mat was visibly
annoyed when I passed it on.
¥ * * *
“Zake”; Tim Bullivant, who had had
a tough apprenticeship in a shanty pub
among the opal gougers, had taken over
the Post Splitters’ Arms at Wallaby
Bend. The two residents who had
dropped in for their first drink under the
“new management” ordered whisky. A
minute after the pair had upended their
glasses they were writhing around with
their hands to their stomachs. Tim came
over from the peter, greatly concerned.
“Don’t tell me y’ don’t like the whisky,
you blokes,” he said. “It’s the best stuff
on the market.” One of the victims fer-
vently thanked the Deity that Bullivant
hadn’t trotted out the worst. It was then
that Tim’s eyes strayed to the bottle he
had put back on the shelf just above his
head. “Be cripes, you coves, I’m sorry
about that,” he said penitently. “Here,
give us y’r glasses an’ I’ll give y’ a proper
one. What I give y’ by mistake just then
was the stuff I keep f’r the drunks!”
* * * *
“Dusty Miller”: Inventors were early
at work in Australia, man-power mills
for grinding wheat being some of the
first of their attempts. In 1793 two men
named Wilkinson and Baughan got per-,
mission from Lieutenant-Governor Grose
to try out their ideas. Baughan’s mill was
driven by nine men, who walked in a
circle like sailors round a capstan head ;
it ground 531 b. of wheat in 17 minutes.
Wilkinson’s mill (his second attempt; his
first, erected at Parramatta, was a two-
man contraption) was worked by six
men who walked inside a large wheel
like squirrels or white mice in a cage.
The diameter of the wheel was 22ft.
After much time had been lost through
the wheels in Wilkinson’s machine going
wrong, the whole thing was abandoned,
the responsibility for the failure being
laid on unseasoned cogwheel timber.
* sN * *
“90 Mile”; Don’t you start talking to
me about shooting, “Narrin” (B.
20/1 /’43)! I’ll relate just three examples
of my skill. Shot at a black snake in a
pump well. My bullet went past where
Joe’s left ear should have been, hit the
concrete well wall, splayed across the
cord holding open the skylight and cut it
in two ; and the skylight dropped on Joe
where he lay basking, cutting him in two
—ahem! ‘Shot at a shag drying its wings
on a log 60 yards across a billabong ;
the bullet struck the water 15 yards short,
careened upwards and took the astounded
shag in the middle of the back. How do
you reckon I worked out that angle if
I’m not a good shot? Third, and best.
Shot at a kangaroo on the common one
moonlit night with a .32. The slug went
across the common and through the
police-station roof. The police force
turned out in frantic haste to see what
was doing and chased me across the com-
mon. While he and I dodged each other
through the bluebush half the town
rushed up to the pub to take advantage
of his absence. The mob got six bottles
for me as a special reward.
* * * *
“Niloc”: The mob cast a critical eye
on the holiday fruit-pickers who were
perched precariously on a dozing Clydes-
dale. “City kids,” Joe declared. “I’d
like to see their faces if old Blinker
moved off.” A second or so later one
of the kids sneezed in a high-pitched
voice, and the prad lumbered off; soon
he was doing the nearest thing to a gallop
he had ever done. We chased him three
miles, and, removing his burden (who
had done it without harness), we asked
them where they’d learned to hold on.
“Buses!” panted the eldest.
* * # ♦
“Bo”; Dan Stubblechin suspected that
someone was pinching wheat, and one
night hid behind the stack. Towards
midnight a lorry coasted silently
down the road and stopped, and
a couple of men got through the
fence. As they were hoisting the first
bag old Dan stepped out. Instead of
taking to their heels the marauders
cockily called Dan’s bluff. “Look here,
old man,” said the duo’s spokesman. “We
got the deadwood on y’, see? You can
try puttin’ us in, if y’ like, but before y’
can ring the John we’ll be miles away,
an’ your standing ripe crop there will be
up in smoke. Ever hear of a lighted
candle in a straw-filled beer bottle stuck
in among ripe wheat?” Dan acknow-
ledged defeat. “Oh, well, you coves’ve
got me where the hair’s short,” he said.
“Take three pound each and leave the
wheat alone, and nick orf outa the dis-
trict. Come up to the house an’ get paid
—I promise y’ I won’t ring the John
Hop,” After hesitating, the two followed
him up cautiously and stood on the
verandah while Dan went inside. A few
minutes later Dan came to the wire
screen door. “There’s y’r payment just
behind y’. Y’ can collect from them —
Joe and Ted, me sons. They trained
with thrashin’ machines.” The two
whirled around as Joe and Ted, both
over 6ft. and 14 stone, advanced joyfully
to meet them. Later, as the battered
wrecks were removing themselves, old
Dan said; “Well, boys, y’ can’t say I
didn’t keep me word. I didn’t ring the
John, and y’ each got well paid
as promised. And be the time you’ve
recovered I’ll have harvested that other
150 acres, see?”
NATIVE EARTH.
If there be sorrow, I would face it here
Where bush swallows fin the air like flying fish;
And at sunset the artist hills take trees for
brushes
And, using the sky for canvas, splash bright
clear
Pictures across it. When pain comes with the
swish
And clash of naked steel, I shall parry its rushes
Much better here, with the forest grasses to
teach
The cunning of their earth children: the bur-
rowing ones;
And those that go in feathers; and the others
That kneel in fern when the moon is white
as a beach
Rocked by whimpering sapphire. Yellow as
suns,
Small mounds of gorse, cropped close by lambs
and their mothers,
Cluster like fairy towns on the warm hillside —
Humble cottage and palace and honeyed church
steeple
With bees to tug the bell ropes and summon
the people
To quiet prayer within, or the hunted to hide.
My light feet flow like water along the mould;
My hair is burnt on the wind, and my heart is
taken
By orchid hands and broken in little flowers—
Wild pea blossoms that redden the drifting gold
Of the gully sands. I follow their spoor through
shaken
Prickly wattle and the grey ti-tree that cowers
Like a chain-gang here, when storm kings ride
black mares
Of thunder down the mountain, and gaunt
spurs
Are sheathed from head to foot in deep snow
furs;
And, lit by the waspish lightnings, sulphur flares.
Tasmania.
NORMA L. DAVIS.


“Betcha”: The city visitor glanced at
the shabby old figure propping the pub
verandah and decided to be charitable.
“If you like to come inside,” he said,
jerking his head at the bar, “I’ll buy you
a drink.” The ancient followed him
in. “Whisky,” announced Flash to the
barman. “And —er —give the old chappie
a drink, will you?” Glasses drained, the
old cove began fumbling in his pocket
and murmuring something about another.
“That’s all right, Whiskers,” waved the
magnanimous stranger. “Put it back in
your pocket. Guess you can do with it
pretty badly, and it won’t hurt my
wages.” They turned to the door, and
were in time to see the leaders of a big
mob of Herefords coming around the
corner. The bullocks moved briskly,
urged by dogs and flicking whips, and as
the tail drew opposite the pub the old
bloke strode into the roadway. “Damn
y’, Billy,” he roared to one of the
drovers, “can’t y’ take ’em steady? I
told y’ the last three mobs o’ fats y’
brung in f’r me this month wus drove
too fast! Yair, an’ by cripes, if this
bunch brings less’n twenty quid a head
y’re fired.”
* ♦ * *
“C.E.”: The setting-up of a rifle range
started all the locals testing their skill,
and the bragging at last sent Joe and the
old man to the scene. They arrived back
full of the day’s events. “Well, y’ cer-
tainly showed ’em somethin’, Dad,”
exulted Joe, dropping his kit outside the
back door. “That long-range ‘bull’ y’
got was a beaut.” He looked up as a
crow landed in a grey-box nearly 200
yards off. “Gee, there’s a shot f’r y’,
Dad! Sneak up behind the shed an’ y’ll
gain a fair bit. Think you can get him?”
“Dunno, Joe. He ain’t much of a target
through them leaves, but—c’mon.” Down
they went on hands and knees ; they’d
covered about half the distance when a
sharp report sounded behind them. Dad
jumped up as the crow fell with a thud.
“Aw, now why can’t y’ keep inside out
o’ the way, Ma?” he expostulated.
“Frightenin’ everythin’ round the place
like that!” Mum rubbed a floury hand
over her hot face. “Sorry, Dad. I didn’t
know you were after anything,” she
apologised. “But it was that old crow in
the grey-box there. He’s been stealin’
eggs lately, so when I had such a chance
I shot him.”
* Hi Hi
“Esk D.”: Mullins’s place is a land-
scape of clear, green, undulating pastures
neatly carved in the valley in sharp relief
to the sombre forest of the ranges that
loom in the background. Alec, the man
who came to work there, was a natural-
ist of sorts, and raved ecstatically over
the picturesque setting and the oppor-
tunities for some brilliant field work. His
passion was birds, and in the overgrown
orchard of apples and English plums he
whiled away his scanty leisure hours with
photography and study of the feathered
patrons. But Alec couldn’t resist taking
a hand to bring his paradise to the per-
fection he craved. Mullins, suspicious,
followed him to the bend of the creek one
evening and arrived just in time to see a
sugar-bag sail out and sink with a splash
in midstream. Alec explained defiantly
that that was the last of the household
cats. What passed between them after
that is not known, but Mullins is an
understanding employer. These days
he keeps no cats, and Alec puts in half
his nights trapping rats at the dairy and
the big feed shed. And they’re both
happy.
* * * *
“Louden”: Mounted on his grey pony,
Jack, from up the creek, was going home
from town one night when ahead of him
in the timber he saw One-horse Charlie,
the Indian hawker, sitting nodding by
his campfire. Getting to within ten yards
of Charlie unseen, he dug his heels into
the pony and, letting out a blood-congeal-
ing yell, he, plus pony, sailed over the
Indian’s head and vanished in the dark-
ness. One-horse Charlie went over back-
wards. Instinctively he covered his head
with his arms and lay still. When he
thought it was safe to do so he got on to
his feet and went up into his van like a
fox into a tree. An hour later he’d
broken camp and was beating it. Since
then neither Charlie nor the other Singhs
who periodically work the district have
camped at the spot—once the camping-
ground of every Indian passing that way.
% % % %
“Wang”: “Of all the mates I’ve had,”
remarked Dan, “the queerest wus Tony
Wilkins. He wus always findin’ what he
called omens an’ portents in all sorts
“But all the best people in the Air Force have a moustache!"
of things, thunder, lightnin’, the sun,
moon an’ stars —’specially the stars. On
the tramp one time we camped in a hut
on the side of the road. It had a coupia
bunks in it, with a fireplace at ope end,
an’ a winder ’bout 18 inches square oppo-
site the bunks —least it wus one one time,
though there ain’t a bit of glass in it
now. As soon as we had a bit of scran
Tony turns in, an’ is fast asleep in a tick.
I sit smokin’ an’ readin’ fer an hour or
two ; then I blow out the candle an’ crawl
inter the other bunk, an’ it ain’t long be-
fore I doze orf. Some time later I’m woke
be Tony callin’ out in an excited sorta
way. ‘What’s wrong?’ I ask, still half
asleep. ‘Look, Dan, look,’ he cries in a
hushed voice, ‘through the winder. A
bright star, a new one it is ; never been
in that part of the hevings at this time
of night before. It means something’s
goin’ t’ happen; it’s a omen, a portent!’
I gape across at the winder, an’ then turn
over an’ drowse orf agen, Tony’s voice
still dronin’ in me ears ’bout the star of
omen. It wus a bit of a hole in the
sheet of brown paper I’d pinned over
the winder t’ keep the wind out, with
the full moon shinin’ through.”
* * * *
“Y. Knott”: Rabbiting with the ferrets
hundreds of miles from the Victorian
coast and far from any extensive sheet
of water or habitation, I saw two sea-
gulls come out of the blue within a few
minutes of our arrival at a warren, while
the nets were being set. Perching on
fence posts, they waited till innards of de-
funct bunnies were.tossed out; then they
“It looks better if you swing your arms when you're marching. "
got to work with gusto. The promptness
with which the feathered epicures arrived
on the scene, coupled with their general
air of expectancy while waiting, gave us
the impression they were old hands at
the game.
“Walk About”: I was aware that the
kookaburra could dive to impale mice
or frogs, but it was a new one on me
to find he could reverse the process.
Close to my camp was an ants’ nest built
about 30ft. up in a three-pronged fork
of a tree. Lying in the tent I noticed
a hole about 3in. in diameter on the
underside of the “paunch” and won-
dered how it got there. Just woke from
a doze to be surprised at a jackass cata-
pulting from the hole. Watched with
one eye open for some time, and saw
Jacky come straight up at the hole. A
foot away from it he folded his wings
and, scorning to use his feet, sailed
straight in. Obviously his nest, as he
did the trick numerous times with good
periods inside. To make that home he
must have pounded the spot, cunningly
chosen where a go. could not reach, many
times with his beak. I always thought
Jacky built in hollow trees and his cousin
the kingfisher burrowed holes in earth
banks.
* * * *
“Solitude”: It is Seventyfiver’s job to
feed out hay to the hacks, and with great
ingenuity he built himself a wheelbarrow
for the task. He’d just loaded the con-
traption the other evening as I rode in.
“I’ll give you a hand with that,” I sug-
gested, swinging off my nag. The old
cove wouldn’t hear of it. “What do you
know about barrers!” he scoffed, grab-
bing up the handles and wobbling through
the gateway. “Y’ got t’ understand ’em
t‘ do any good.” Outside he propped his
load against a log and, taking a stone
from under the hay, did some mysterious
hammering near the wheel. Three yards
on a piece of fencing wire had to be
twitched, and a bit further a bolt needed
attention. Next stop was for a loose
board, and three others for more ham-
mering on the wheel. Finally he accom-
plished his 40-yard journey and, juggling
the vehicle on one rickety leg, fished
cautiously in his pocket for the block
that balanced the other. “Damn' good
barrer,” he volunteered proudly, “if I
do say it meself. That Sandy come over
this mornin’ an’ wanted t’ borrow it f’r
cartin’ spuds!” He rested one boot
gingerly on his prize and leaned towards
me. “It ain't that I mind [endin’ me
things, as a rule,” he explained earnestly,
“but Sandy ain’t too careful with other
people’s belonging. It’d be jus’ like the
clumsy ol’ fool t’ go an’ break it on me.”
* * * *
“Arev”: “See that you kids come
straight home from school today,” Bill
Jupp said ; “I want you all to give a
hand with that chaff-cutting.” But after
school someone suggested a swim in the
dam, and the chaff-cutting was forgotten.
When Jacky Jupp did remember there
was a scramble into clothes. “Gripes,
Dad’ll be wild,’’ he told the others. “It’ll
be close on milking time when we get
home.” Just as they were grabbing their
schoolbags Jacky had an idea. “You
know that snake we stonkered bn the
way to school ; we’ll grab it going back
—it’ll be handy. A few hundred yards
from home Jacky stuffed the dead Joe
tail first down a hole under some
bracken, its head just visible. Billqwas
opening out about their disobedience to
his orders when young Jacky piped up,
“We was hurrying home but there was
a snake on the road, and we was trying to
get it.” Bill pricked up his ears. If
there was one thing he was thikled about
it was a victorious bout with a snake.
“Didn't you kill it?” he said. “No, Dad ;
we couldn’t find it. It went into some
ferns.” “Where?” said Bill. “Just up
the track past the dead gum.” Bill
grabbed a spade and hitched up his pants.
“Come and show me the place.” Along
the road they went to the patch of
bracken. “There, Dad ; it went in just
there.” Bill cut off heads of bracken
until he sighted a hole in the ground.
“Ah!” he said. Then: “One of you kids
run home for a kettle of hot water.” Bill
watched the hole like a cat at a mouse-
hole ; then, when the kettle arrived, he
poured the contents down the hole and
started to dig energetically. A few
feet down he came to something that
looked like cooked eel. Bill smiled in
satisfaction. “Good on you!” he said.
“If you don’t get a snake yourselves
always see where it goes an’ let me know.
Well, it’s a bit late to start on the chaff-
cutting. Tomorrow’ll do for that.”
sf: - % :’t
“K.”: Perhaps “Pardon Me” (B.
13/1/’43), in explaining this, will assert
that the animal smelt its way home.
I refer to a nine-year-old mare, bred
on Glencoe station, that swam across
Lake Alexandrina (S.A.) in order to get
back to the old place. The distance swum
was between 15 and 16 miles, and the
mare was so exhausted by the journey
that she couldn’t get to her feet for two
days after she stumbled ashore.
$ * « sjc
“Golden Mile”: The most ingenious
digger I ever struck was sinking a 50ft.
shaft on his pat. At surface was his
windlass, running two buckets, one up,
one down ; but only one hoisted dirt: the
other, half-full, acted as a counterbalance.
To a ring on the bottom of each bucket
a light line was fast. Starting the cycle
with the full bucket at the bottom. Old
Dan hauled downwards on the line at-
tached to the counterweight. This eased
him of half the weight. The full bucket,
now at the top, had to be tipped. By
another system of lines and pulleys a
light wooden door dropped across the
mouth of the shaft. On to this the bucket
was lowered, its tail line catching in a
notch so that it upended and tipped. It
was then raised by the counterweight at
the bottom: the door lifted and then, by
hauling down again, it returned to the
bottom while its half-full companion went
again to the surface. Old Dan couldn’t
get a mate because he was the district's
acknowledged Jonah. I’d like to say
he ended by striking it rich, but it was
only half-ounce stuff, just enough to start
him on dreams of a whip and a horse
and a speaking tube that would enable
him to give orders to the nag while still
at the bottom of the shaft.
* * * *
“B. A. Ker”: With a candle stuck in
a bottle, and a bar of soap for a crib-
bage board, four of us squatted on the
floor of the shack playing the old game
while Bert snored. Suddenly Joe leapt to
his feet and, with a frantic look on his
face, grabbed his trouser-leg, shook it
vigorously and began something that
might have been a modern dance. When
two six-inch blue centipedes dropped on
to the floor doubts of the dancer’s sanity
were dispelled. Instantly eight boots
threshed wildly, shins suffered, over went
the bottle —fortunately without putting
the light out —and the ’pedes emerged
unscathed! The running fight that en-
sued sounded like an air raid. At its
conclusion Bert was sitting up in his
bunk asking in a scared voice what had
happened. “Centipedes!” he exclaimed
on being informed. “Gripes, I don’t
mind centipedes, but I wish they’d taken
their blasted boots off!”
THE UNSUNG WARRIOR.
Our soldiers, when they meet again, grown old.
Will tell their yarns of war, both gay and
grim >
Rekindling those wild hours that time will
dim,
And ask “Who was the boldest of the bold
In all that gallant crowd we’ve heard extolled?”
Then some may say “ Twas Jack,” and some
“ Twas Jim,”
And seldom then will any think of him.
Of whom no thrilling tale was ever told,
Who fell to some chance shot, and found a
grave
Before he had a chance to strike a blow,
Before he had a chance to see his foe.
Was he the bravest there, where all were brave?
Untried, unproved, unsung, his hopes laid
low,
He is the hero we shall never know.
N.S.W.
ROBERT MATHER.


The strongest ready-to-use glue for sticking emery cloth to
grinder discs—recommended for SHEARING-SHED work.
KQEBBS
40z., Boz., 160 z., 1-gallon sizes Hardware and general stores.
Australian, Mercantile, Land & Finance
Company, Limited
(INCORPORATED IN ENGLAND IN 1863)
WOOL, FAT STOCK, STORE AND STUD STOCK,
PRODUCE AND PROPERTY SALESMEN
General Manager for Australia; R. SINCLAIR SMITH,
ADVANCES MADE ON GRAZING PROPERTIES, ON STOCK, AND OK
CONSIGNMENTS OF WOOL, SKINS, HIDES, TALLOW, ETC.
LICENSED AUCTIONEERS, STOCK AND STATION AGENTS.
SYDNEY OFFICE; A. M. MURDOCH, Manager
ALSO AT MELBOURNE,. BRISBANE, NEWCASTLE, WAGGA, HENTY, HAY, MOREE,
TOWNSVILLE, CHARLEVILLE, BUENOS A!RES,
GENERAL AGENTS IN NEW SOUTH WALES FOR NORTHERN ASSURANCE CO.. LTD.
M.
m
nil.
Vi
R 3
B:
i
HOTEL GRAND CENTRAL
151 CLARENCE STREET, facing G.P.0.,
ROOM ONLY
Single Rooms from 5/6
Double Rooms from 11/-
Spacious, Up-to-date Dining Room-
Telephone: 8W1531 (7 lines).
Hot and Cold Water
SYDNEY.
BED
Single
Double
& BREAKFAST
Rooms from 7/6
Rooms from 15/-
-AII Meals a la Carte.
Box 35875, G.P.0., Sydney.
G. C. C. McKAY, Manager.
Banquets, Functions, etc., by arrangement.
Cable and Radio: Grancentral.
THE MAN ON
THE LAND
"DON'T WORRY, I'M SENDING IT TO
GRAZCOS."
Worm Troubles.
“J.R.D.”: Conditions in N.S.W. are
such as to make a heavy outbreak of
worm trouble inevitable. Practically
every species of worm is in evidence, and
there is so much good feed that sheep
are able to carry an infestation much
heavier than in normal times, so unless
there is preventive drenching losses may
be heavy.
Among younger sheep, the worms caus-
ing trouble are chiefly black scour and
thin-necked intestinal worms. Both do
hidden harm, and the first sign is usually
a sudden loss of condition, hard to check.
The thin-necked intestinal worm has
not previously been regarded as of much
importance. It is easier to identify than
the black scour worm as it is much
larger and has a peculiarly long, thin
neck, usually twisted up in front of the
body. The black scour worm is gener-
ally found in the first 10ft. of the small
intestine below the fourth stomach ; the
thin-necked worm joins up with it there
and continues further back along the in
testinal tract. Treatment with blue-
stone-nicotine does good, but failures
must be expected. The only really
reliable drench is phenothiazine. Cost
may be kept down by using bluestone-
nicotine for preventive treatment and
treating only those that do not respond
with phenothiazine.
Grass-seed and fly-strike are compli-
cating the position. Shift sheep into
spelled paddocks as often as possible,
particularly after drenching. Where
grass-seed is serious, young sheep tend
to stick to small cleared areas, with the
result that infestation is heavily concen-
trated. To drench them and put them
back on the same paddock is a waste of
time.
Black Disease.
“Hux”: Outbreaks are most likely be-
tween January and April. From weancr
stage onwards either sex is susceptible.
The disease strikes at animals in prime
condition.
Only symptom is a lagging behind the
mob. Forced along by a dog, the sheep
may lie down on its brisket with its
legs tucked under and appear out of
breath. Shortly, it dies without a
struggle. The carcass turns black, and
rate of decomposition is so rapid that
the organs of sheep dead more than an
hour are completely putrefied. Post-
mortem usually shows a jellylike sub-
stance under the skin near the brisket,
the liver is dark red, full of blood and
covered with light-colored patches. If
these are examined carefully, immature
fluke can sometimes be found in them.
Vaccination gives immunity for a
lengthy period. The serum produced by
Commonwealth Laboratories takes effect
14 days after injection. It’s done up in
quantities ranging from 50 c.c., sufficient
for 25 sheep and costing 2s. 6d., to 1000
500 dieep and costs 26 s.)
. To «?* rld ° f both black disease and
A“ ke ! hee P sh . ould ke vaccinated in
November, pastures bluestoned at the
cnd of December and June, and drench-
lnS d o ne at , Ekc c ( rK | °f 11 '1 an X
a jl d , t lc mlc [? e . ° kui ? e ‘ , a !m S h7 .I°.
stUed^immeVately 11 to forestall tte
spread of germs.
°
Oats in the Mallee.
« Ti ». They - re on their’own for
h and in and when the season is
* d for azi H L S ims, who man .
Walpeup research station,
m * ntions that t f e practice is to
SQW Qn wheat stubble but claims that
part 0 f the long fallow should
c £ few oatS- Walpeup has tested
“I’m taking a poll for the ‘Woman’s Digest.' Would you rather marry
Mr. Roosevelt, Mr. Churchill or Mr. Stalin?”
a number of varieties, but only Mulga,
Dawn, Algerian and Algeribee have held
their positions by consistent yields,
Generally, for the northern and cen-
tral Mallee the seeding rate for hay or
grain ranges between 401 b. and 501 b. an
acre, and 701 b. and 801 b. for grain. On
stubble, a rate of 50lb. seems to be about
the best. There have been increased yields
from heavier sowings, but nothing to war-
rant the extra layout. Only rarely do oats
in the Mallee recover sufficiently from a
sheeping to give a hay or grain return,
Walpeup tests with fertilisers have
satisfied Sims that more than 301 b. to
401 b. of super, an acre isn’t justified by
any increased yield. On fallow, however,
there have been marked yield increases
when the super, rate has been stepped
up. So far, there’s nothing to justify the
use of super, and ammonia mixtures for
hay on stubble ground, though oats on
stubble benefit from the super, used for
the wheat when the rate is heavy—9olb.
to 1201 b.
Cattle Care.
“Hux”: Watch dairy stock coming in
from other districts to make sure they’re
healthy. Working a farm with minimum
labor means that cows don’t get proper
attention in early stages of sickness and
are often isolated too late to stop spread
of infection.
Inefficient handling of the milking
machine is often the start of udder
troubles, and lack of adequate winter food
and overstocking reduce condition and
leave cows open to all sorts of trouble,
So do mineral deficiencies in the pasture,
Too many farmers concentrate on
extra-high production. What’s needed in
both cow and bull is a good record of
long life and health. The farmer who
realises that what’s taken out in milk
must go in in the form of food plus suf-
ficient nourishment to maintain body
strength is bound to have healthy stock,
Cutting losses in heifers reduces herd
replacements and keeps up herd health,
Watch the animals closely for the first
six months. If they’re to be farm assets
over a number of years they should be
given a good start.
Every 10,0001 b. of milk from the herd
yields more than half a ton of solids. In
heavy milkers these solids can’t be re-
placed if the cow doesn’t get the right
quantity of minerals. Peak yields put a
big strain on the cow, and unless there’s
some compensation for her output her
constitution must suffer.
Potato Moth.
“Plane Creek”: There’s no worse pest
of spuds. It lays hundreds of eggs on
plants, tubers and sacks. The larvae
attack the foliage or the tubers, and the
latter are speedily riddled.
Spraying with a 1-in-40 solution of
arsenate of lead will destroy the larvae
when the plants alone are infested, shown
by brown dead tissue in the leaves. To
prevent damage to tubers plant seed-
spuds to a good depth and hill up the
growing plants. Don’t “bandicoot”
around the roots to find out the size of
the spuds. Bag immediately after dig-
ging, in new sacks if possible. If old
sacks must be used immerse them in boil-
ing water first to rid them of possible
eggs or larvae.
Should infestation occur, a speedy
fumigation, allowing 21b. of carbon bi-
sulphide per 500 cubic feet of receptacle,
is the only remedy. Fumigate for at
least 36 hours. Before sowing seed-spuds
disinfect them with commercial formalin
if there is any hint of infestation. One
pint of formalin in 15gal. of water
should be heated to 125 deg. F. and kept
at that temperature. Immerse the tubers
in small numbers for not more than
three minutes. Spread them out and
cover with a tarpaulin or sacks for an
hour. Then allow them to dry.
Hints for the Farm.
“Will C.”; When rains are frequent
make sure your nags don’t get their teeth
into mouldy chaff or hay; mould is
deadly poison. If they’ve got the poison
they’ll stagger around as if intoxicated,
and sometimes become paralysed in the
throat and cannot swallow. Get the
poisonous material away, and if they
can swallow give a large dose of raw
linseed oil, followed by smaller doses
at intervals until improvement takes place.
Rectal injections are helpful when a horse
is unable to swallow.
“W.M.”: Worth knowing about
strangles (B. 6/1/’43) that the giving of
10 tablets of sulphanilamide over a
period of 16 hours causes a rapid fall
of the fever and frequently reduces
abscesses. Sulphanilamide is used on
racehorses suffering from strangles.
“P.A.”: Phalaris tuberosa has not
received the attention it merits as a cool-
country winter pasture. There’s nothing
to equal it for hardiness and for green
feed at a time when little else is thriving.
It pays dividends over and over again in
increased yields once it has become a
permanent stand.
“Koteay”: A Maoriland farmer, C. Y.
B. Sewell, of Silverdale (N. 1.), noticed a
small, continually-damp patch on a rise
from which in wet weather there was a
trickle of water. He found that, though
it would supply a fair quantity of water
in wet weather, it failed in the dry. Prob-
ing showed that though the top went dry
there was always water a few feet down,
so he sank a hole about six feet deep
and five inches in diameter into the
.pring, put in about five feet of 4in. piping
as a bore casing, and into that put about
five feet of fin. pipe as a siphon. Con-
nected to a pipe leading down the slope
to a trough, all he had to do was plug
the bottom of his lead pipe, fill it and
the siphon with water, invert the siphon
into the casing and away it went. It
hasn’t failed him yet, and is an idea worth
thinking about wherever a small spring
or soak can be found high enough to pro-
vide the siphon effect.
“Clyde”: Max Henry, chief vet. for
N.S.W., has been looking into the causes
for rejection of draught stallions under
his State’s Horse Breeding Act. From
July to December, 1941, 971 entires were
examined at country parades and 193
rejected, either because of disease or
failure to conform with type, conforma-
tion or breeding. Twenty owners
appealed and three appeals were upheld.
Of the rejected, 48.5 p.c. suffered from
sidebone. Clydesdales numbered 154 of
the 196 originally rejected, and 77 of
them had sidebone. War conditions
caused suspension of the Act until Jan.
31 this year.
“Albacutya”: Victorian Agricultural
Department’s advice for 1943 wheat-
sowing : Ghurka and Quadrat for Wim-
mera black soils, Ghurka for Wimmera
red, Ghurka, Ranee 4H and Regalia for
the southern Mallee, Regalia, Ranee 4H,
Ghurka and Bencubbin for the northern
Mallee, Ghurka and Ranee 4H for mid-
northern districts, Ghurka and Baldmin
for tke north-east and Ghurka anywhere
else. All are main crops. Magnet, Bald-
min, Ranee 4H, Quadrat, Dundee, Pindar
and Mogul can be used for limited sow-
ings in districts where they are not listed
for the main crop, except Mogul, which
is limited to the coastal fall.


aw
“Pi
. j.
CRAVEHA
10 for 1/1 20 for 2/2
Save - or Slave. Put
all you've got into £lO
National Savings Bonds.
Soso MADE SPECIALLY TO PREVENT SORE THROATS
UNCABLED ADDITIONS
“Pacific War Paramount.”
(Condensed from an article by David Law-
rence syndicated from Washington.)
The impression that if Hitler collapses
Japan will immediately capitulate has
become so widespread that in the alloca-
tion of materials it is not unusual to find
our own [U.S.] officials feeling that first
attention must be given to Europe. While
nobody would wish to see any materials
or ships taken from the European theatre
which were absolutely needed to carry
on the projected operations, it is possible
for the idea to become rooted that
America can carry on the Pacific war
with secondary weapons and secondary
treatment.
It is plausible, of course, to assume
that if Germany is beaten the entire
force of the British and American Navies
can be used to transport troops and sup-
plies and ’planes to the Pacific fronts.
But this is a long, hard road, and every
bit of information concerning the Japa-
nese strategy leads to the conclusion that
the Japanese will make the United
Nations pay dearly for every island and
every inch of territory lost.
The problem of defeating Japan is
related to what the United Nations do
in the early stages. Already Japan has
stolen a march on the Allies by her
sweep down through the Far East to the
South Pacific. The Japanese have en-
trenched themselves in an area which is
in total square miles equal to all of
Europe. People do not realise the vast
quantities of minerals and resources won
by Japanese conquests since the war began.
In Japan there is a feeling that, while
the United States cannot be invaded, the
American Navy can be kept from inter-
fering with Japanese supply lines over a
long period of time. The Japanese visual-
ise a war of several years’ duration.
Because of the attitude of some who are
allowing the thought to develop that it
doesn’t matter when ,we tackle the Japa-
nese problem in earnest so long as we
concentrate on Europe, the Japanese are
finding it easier to carry on their type of
war than would be the case if we re-
garded the Pacific as a prime considera-
tion in our over-all strategy.
The United States Navy needs more
support from the over-all planners than
it appears to be getting in the Pacific —
more ’planes than have been given our
outlying positions. If the United Nations’
forces are to extend their offensives be-
yond New Guinea and if the American
fleet is to occupy more islands so as to
furnish air bases for our bombers, the
Pacific cannot be considered hereafter a
No. 2 proposition. The war with Japan
deserves paramount attention.
Communist Germany?
(Condensed from a London “Fortnightly”
article by S. H. Gerard.)
It is almost universally agreed that
after a collapse of the Nazi regime Ger-
many will be in a state of despair, exhaus-
tion and demoralisation. But there is
also the immediate danger of civil war all
over Germany.
Any regime that might emerge from
such a revolution would not be able to
stand for long without support from out-
side. A defeated Nazi-Germany can no
longer stand between the East and the
West. She will have to choose between
them. A non-Communist and anti-Nazi
regime in a post-war Germany could
only be established if such a Government
could get from the beginning the help of
the Anglo-Saxon countries in the same
way as a Communist Germany would get
the help of the Soviet Union. After a
Hitler defeat it must be assumed that
millions will express Communist sympa-
thies. The Russian leaders have adapted
their post-war policy to this situation. It
may be right that Russia cannot escape
profound internal changes and will even-
tually be won back to the West. But it
must also be said that such a fundamen-
tal change is not an implication of the
Alliance ; it cannot be taken for granted.
For it may be argued; Why should the
presupposed winner of the war on the
Continent need to revise its political and
ideological principles?
In any case, up to now the Soviet
Union has pursued a post-war policy of
her own which differs in some essential
points from that of Britain.
The Soviet leaders know that the secu-
rity of their own country against renewed
attack by Germany is strengthened more
by a Communist Germany and a new
international order based on the common
feeling of the Communist creed than by
a policy of force which includes an occu-
pation and a unilateral disarmament
which cannot practically be maintained
for ever and probably not even for one
generation. From the Russian point of
view, it is much more important to
strengthen by all means that very strong
trend of the German outlook which after
a Nazi collapse will tend rather to the
East than to the West. They know that
—as things stand today—the dynamics of
the political situation in Germany will
favor a development which may well lead
the Germans to embrace Communism in
some form.
A Communist regime in Germany
would open new perspectives for the rest
of the Continent. How, for instance,
can France evade Communist implica-
tions granted a victorious Russia defeat-
ing a Nazi-Germany just becoming Com-
munist? And we do not know whether
such a general development could be suc-
cessfully prevented by the Anglo-Saxon
countries sending an army of occupation
to a Communist Germany or Europe.
It is widely urged that an Allied Recon-
struction Committee should be estab-
lished to exercise Governmental functions
until it could be replaced by a trust-
worthy German Government. Even Pro-
fessor E. H. Carr in his brilliant book
Conditions of Peace advocates a mili-
tary occupation of Germany for a limited
time to bridge the transition from the old
order to the new. If the liberal Democ-
racies should follow up this line of policy
the question arises whether the way of
winning Germany back to the West will
not be finally blocked. Even a defeated
Nazi-Germany can possibly make a deci-
sion of great political significance; it can
accept the offer of the East and refuse
that of the West. And it will probably
act in this way if it cannot get the help
of the West for its new Western-minded
reconstruction or can get this help only
under less favorable conditions than the
Russians were prepared to offer to a
Communist Germany. A defeated post-
war Germany will choose as far as pos-
sible that regime which offers her a better
peace, and enables her to evade the worst
national humiliation.
Order in Germany cannot be achieved
by returning to the liberal status quo.
For some time to come no regime there
will be able to exist without a strong and
effective authority in order to secure
normal conditions of life. If such a
regime is to have a non-Communist char-
acter it needs the active support of the
Western-minded oppositional forces in
the German army. And these groups
cannot act unless they have reason to
believe that there is at least a prospect
of a more or less tolerable peace.
If such a chance does not exist then
those other forces which advocate a close
co-operation with the Soviet Union and
are prepared to transform Germany into
a Communist State will gain the upper
hand. These rather strong forces lay
stress on the common interests between
Germany and Russia and aim at creating
a great transcontinental block consisting
of Germany, Russia and Japan, which
should counterbalance the two great
Anglo-Saxon countries. If these forces
come to terms with the Soviet Union
the other strata of the population who
look for liberation, salvation and guid-
ance to the West would not be able to
oppose such a development.
If the liberal Democracies do not want
to face a Communist Germany, with a
Communist Continental Europe," :t is not
enough to appeal to the Germans to over-
come the present regime. At the same
time, the ends and the purposes of the
projected action must be made clear. A
politically realistic and tolerable alter-
native is necessary which gives those
forces in Germany which still look to the
West at least a chance of choosing a
post-war regime in harmony with Western
principles and values. These Western-
minded forces in Germany should be
treated practically in the same way as
Russia would treat a Communist Ger-
many and given help in re-establishing
order and preventing anarchy and mob-
rule.
U.S.-Jap War of Words.
(Condensed from an article by the Washington
correspondent of “Wall-street Journal.”)
In the war of words which Elmer
Davis, of 0.W.1. (Office of War Infor-
mation), is conducting against Japan two
cardinal facts appear clear:
(1) Inside Japan the effects of U.S.
“Propaganda of the Truth” are badly
crippled —because we have no radio
listeners there except Japanese officials.
(2) In the empire of conquered Oriental
peoples, Mr. Davis has the material and
perhaps the substance of major success.
The area contains few spots where the
voice of America is not heard frequently
and quickly. From hidden short-wave
receivers news spirals out by “bamboo
telegraph.”
In the Netherlands Indies 30,000 receiv-
ing sets are considered to be tuned daily
to U.S. West Coast transmitters. The
Dutch destroyed tax lists showing their
location before the invaders arrived. In
the Philippines and Korea, the 0.W.1.
finds it necessary to instruct fans not to
sabotage or assassinate now —not till the
signal is given.
Japs on the home islands are equipped
with human curiosity and eardrums, but
not with shortwave receiving sets. Know-
ing this, 0.W.1. now has retreated to a
position where it makes no attempt to
write its “Propaganda of the Truth” for
the common Japanese. Strategy—appar-
ently unproductive as yet —is limited to a
constant attempt to split Foreign Office
men and the Emperor himself from the
war and navy lords. Hirohito is the
white hope of 0.W.1. Officials say they
are convinced the god of Nippon is un-
enthusiastic about the war, may become
hostile to it.
One important Jap group is reached
by shortwave, experts believe. These are
the troops at the fringe of the yellow
advances, who are thought to be equipped
with sets which can tune in America.
For their benefit 0.W.1. sends out, for
instance, a daily five-minute chat to
enemy warriors on Guadalcanal. It is of
an “uninspirational nature.”
In the war of words, where transmit-
ters serve as artillery, Elmer Davis is
heavily outgunned. The Rising Sun em-
ploys at least 32 propaganda antennae,
placed in every strategic position the
nation holds. The U.S. has five trans-
mitters for the Pacific war.
These five are located on the Ameri-
can mainland, near San Francisco. Their
power ranges from the 100 kilowatts of
station KWID to the 10 kilowatts of two
R.C.A. transmitters designed for commer-
cial communication. The small trans-
milters’effect is boosted by beaming, but
the total present U.S. Pacific broadcast
power is considerably weaker than that
of the seven 50kw. transmitters in Tokyo
alone. In addition, three of our five trans-
mitters, being required for commercial
service, are available only part time for
propaganda use. By this time next year
12 additional transmitters will have been
installed up and down the U.S. west
coast, with power from 50kw. to lOOkw.
Collectivism v. Liberty.
[Condensed from a “Saturday Evening Post”
editorial which New York “World-Telegram”
regarded so highly that it gave a full page to
reprinting the whole of it, by permission.]
The human race manufactures most
of its own economic problems by the
simple method of periodically penalising
or destroying those talented members of
society who can solve those problems.
The process works in cycles. When no
one has anything, the talented, capable
individuals are encouraged to exercise
their economic genius, to invent, to
dream, to initiate new enterprise and to
create work for those incapable of
creating their own. As prosperity re-
places poverty the business genius is a
hero.
But since the dawn of history this hero
worship has eventually given place first
to envy, then to distrust, finally to hatred
and what is coyly referred to as “liquida-
tion.” The less privileged lose patience
and kill the goose that laid the golden
eggs. After the rattle of the tumbril has
died away and the untalented have gorged
themselves on the surplus of their one-
time heroes, everyone settles down once
again to squalor and poverty, and the
cycle starts all over again.
For centuries, technological advance-
ment has made the individual less and
less capable of organising and directing
his own work. Hence, someone else must
direct, it. The only two agencies that can
do this are (1) private enterprises, using
free labor, and (2) government, using
Hitler’s type of labor. We must choose
between freedom and State control. Those
who say that the people can collectively
direct their own industrial efforts are
either liars or fools. If the State per-
sists in subsidising and pampering the
relatively useless citizen at the expense
of the useful citizen, one of two things
will happen: Either the useful citizen
will rise up in his wrath and overthrow
the State or, lacking the power to over-
throw the State, he will lose his initiative
and sink toward the level of the group
which he is being made to support.
This last process is a three-act tragedy.
The first act is the one in which the
gifted citizen reduces his productive
efforts because the fruits thereof are
taken from him. The second act is the
gradual reduction of national wealth, re-
sulting from the reduction of productive
effort. The third and last act sees the
available supply of wealth dwindle to
where there is no surplus with which to
feed the useless citizen. And so we see
the very class which was intended to
benefit from the enforced charity cut off
from its only hope of sustenance, the sur-
plus production of the self-sufficient.
The age-old fallacy of universal pros-
perity through economic equality has
been given a brand-new title and is cur-
rently being paraded up and down the
economic stage as “production for use
instead of for profit.” Stripped of its
theatrical aspects, this fancy figment of


“FORRERS”
Self-Oiling Pump
MOTOR OR ENGINE DRIVE
100 LB. PRESSURE OR
230 FEET ELEVATION
CONTINUOUS PERFORMANCE
24 HOURS A DAY WITHOUT
ATTENTION.
We are Sole Distributing Agents for
Forrers Pumps in every State in the Commonwealth except
Queensland.
John Danks g,Sqn
391-403 BOURKE STREET,
MELBOURNE.
AND AT 324-330 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
ST. PATRICK’S COLLEGE,
GOULBURN.
(Founded 1874.)
Conducted by
THE CHRISTIAN BROTHERS.
Registered Secondary School.
BOYS RETURN TUESDAY, 9th FEBRUARY.
socialistic imagination emerges as the
old State ownership of industry.
One need not be an economist to
observe this fallacy. All one needs is
commonsense. Private enterprise must
be efficient because if it isn’t it goes
broke. State-owned enterprise, on the
other hand, is never efficient, for the
simple reason that it doesn’t have to be.
If it loses money, the deficit is made up
by the taxpayer. If private enterprise
loses money, the deficit is made up by
the owners. And for that reason private
enterprise either makes money or goes
out of business. The only way private
enterprise can make money is to serve the
public as well as its competitors, or better.
State-owned industry, having no com-
petitor, serves the public only as well as
its politically appointed management and
its politically controlled workers decide
that it should.
What can the public do to protect
itself from the very real possibility that
industry will be socialised? Is there any
one rock of truth to which the common
man may cling while the storm rages
about him? Is there any one pillar of
freedom which is a key to all freedom
around which he can concentrate his
defences?
There is such a freedom. Economic
freedom. The freedom to develop his
productive abilities, sell them to the
highest bidder and retain for himself and
his family a fair share of the benefits.
When this freedom is destroyed, the en-
tire democratic structure goes with it.
Though no obstruction should be placed
in the path of military victory, an alert
people should check every political move,
every law, and through their chosen re-
presentatives should make certain that
the martial economic law which we now
cheerfully accept does not become the
permanent law of the land.
Trade in Human Misery.
(From a N.Y. “Herald Tribune” article.)
It is a ghastly footnote upon the Hitler
era when the Governments of the United
States and Great Britain are obliged to
issue a formal warning that any one seek-
ing to buy a friend or relative out from
under the Nazi tyranny will be held
guilty of trading with the enemy.
The Nazis, with their peculiar and
fiendish ingenuity, have developed a
traffic in human misery to the point at
which it has become a real leak in the
blockade. They have been selling free-
dom in return for foreign exchange,
building up a regular market with all the
usual apparatus of brokers, middlemen
and banking connections ; they have skil-
fully enhanced the price of their commo-
dity by a calculated use of the concen -
tration camp, torture and terror, until
they have been able to secure as much
as $75,000 for a single victim’s liberty ;
they have even sought to deal in quantity
lots, offering 500 Netherlanders en bloc
for 5,000,000 Swiss francs, on condition
that the Netherlands Government should
finance the operation and assume the
carrying charges!
The usually restrained and somewhat
glacial U.S. State Department speaks of
“the hostage and ransom system” as
something already established on a big
business basis ; while the British Govern-
ment finds that the matter has already
reached such dimensions that the normal
considerations of humanity can no longer
be regarded.
Beside the enormous murders, rapes
and robberies they have perpetrated, this
particular device of the Nazi supermen
may not rate high for the suffering it has
caused. But it introduces into the formal
operations of statecraft a peculiarly loath-
some meanness that deserves a place all
of its own in the history of our strange
times.
What Americans Are Saying.
(Condensed from various acknowledged
sources.)
Outwardly the population [in Algeria] is en-
tirely friendly, but many are disgruntled, the
pro-Nazis are angry because the Allies are
here, and the pro-Allied groups are angry be-
cause pro-Nazis have not been arrested. Many
Allied sympathisers have relatives still in Nazi-
occupied France, and were afraid to show
their real feelings for fear of reprisals. U.S.
United Press correspondent with the A.E.F. in
Africa.
* * * *
“It will make little difference in the end who
wins in Europe, we or Hitler, if the Japs win
in the Pacific, for in 20 or 30 years a billion
and a half Orientals, industrialised, organised and
mobilised by Japan, would overrun war-devas-
tated Europe, and finally America too.” — From
America-wide broadcast by Rep. Melvin J.
Maas, who is a U.S. Marines officer.
* * * *
Addressing the Canadian Club at Toronto
Major-General Victor Odium [former Canadian
Minister to Australia; now Canadian Minister
to China] suggested that Canada send troops
to the South-west Pacific to assist General
Douglas MacArthur. “The best defence for
Canada,” he said, “is not a group of divisions
sitting passively in Canada, but some additional
force —even as little as one division —sent to
General MacArthur so that, on the Japanese
tender southern flank, he may pass frpm the
defensive to a vigorous local offensive.” — N.Y.
“Herald Tribune” report.
* * * *
Even Berlin does not attempt to deny that
a campaign which was to have knocked Russia
out of the war, or left her helplessly on the
defensive, with most of her oil and industry
in Nazi hands, has turned out quite otherwise.
Large reserves of men and materials and a
buoyant fighting spirit are necessary to mount
such an attack as Statin’s soldiers are making.
Relatively they seem at least as strong as they
did a year ago. If the growing strength of the
United States is counted in. the Nazis are rela-
tively far weaker. — N.Y. “Times."
* * * *
“They [the amateur strategists] may be full of
bright ideas, but they are not in possession of
much information about the facts or problems
of military operations. We, therefore, will
continue to leave the plans for this war to the
military leaders.” — President Roosevelt.
* * * *
I noticed in one of the recent “monster
meetings” of Communists in Union Square de-
manding a “second front” that almost all the
men were of military age. Why don’t they jump
in and risk their lives in the defence of Russia?
—for no Communist ever fights for the U.S.A.
or England. But that kidney does not volnnteer
and it doesn’t fight if it can help it. Howling
and shouting and cursing are much more in
their line —and it’s so much safer!— U.S.
columnist Benjamin De Casseres.
* * * *
While we are throwing most of our strength
against Germany and Italy, Japan is not rest-
ing idly on its conquests. The Japanese, un-
like Hitler, have conquered a great deal of
food, oil and rubber for themselves. They are
not rich in steel, but they have considerable.
They have also conquered some 200,000,000
people, the great majority of whom have long
been used to working for foreign rulers. The
Japs, too, have made unsinkable aircraft-carriers
out of many of the Pacific islands which the
League of Nations so thoughtfully gave them
after the other war and have captured many
more islands in the present war. Thus, after
we and our allies finish with Hitler, we shall
to all present appearances have a very tough
nut to crack in the form of the Japanese Em-
pire. The bulk of this job, we should sur-
mise, will be left to the United States. — N.Y.
“Daily News:’’
* * * *
“The Japanese military creed makes the com-
mander in the field independent of the home
Government. The past decade has shown how
this method works. Witness, for example, the
act of the commanders of the Korean garrison
in taking an invading army into Manchukuo
without any consultation whatsoever with the
Tokyo Cabinet. For the sake of the code he
calls Bushido, the last Japanese general living
off the land of the enemy, the last admiral
with the remnant of a fleet, will continue to fight
until all that is left him is the suicide in which
all the living instigators of this war more than
likely will indulge when our bombs and shells
have blasted away even the blindest hope.’’—
—Senator Thomas, member of the U.S. Foreign
Relations and Military Affairs Committee.
* * * *
The Russians have suffered their heaviest loss
of life not at the front but in German-held
territory. If Russian casualties at the front, as
given officially, were 5,100,000 by August 15
last, the losses in civilians in German-ruled
lands are, by unofficial, severely-conservative
estimates, from two to three times as high.
In other words, in German-held territory the
Russians have lost at least 10,000,000 or
15.000. people. Because Russian men of
military age are largely mobilised, and, except
when they happen to be prisoners of war, are
not found in German-held lands, the chief victims
of this inordinately high mortality are old folks,
women and children. Not executions but
famine and disease, resulting from under-
nourishment, caused the high deathrate. —
Maurice Hindus, N.Y. “Herald Tribune” corre-
spondent in Russia.
* * * *
With every week the number of American
soldiers and sailors abroad increases; soon there
will be more than a million of them scattered
all over the globe. War Department plans con-
template an army of 7,500,000, the great bulk
of which will be sent abroad. The Navy, now
1.250.000, will be expanded to 2,000,000. The
President recently expressed the belief that our
army alone would ultimately total 9,500,000. If
his estimate is only half-right and if only half of
that half goes abroad, still the equipping,
maintaining and supplying so vast an armed
force so many thousands of miles away
from home and on so many different fronts
will subject our economy to a strain such as no
other nation has ever borne, or could bear,
and which will require the last ounce of our
strength, great as it is. When one considers
that in the last war we had only two million
men abroad and all on one front, the stupen-
dous nature of the job on our hands can be
appreciated.— Washington correspondent “Wall-
street Journal.”
sfc sfc s{c }{:
One bomb planted in the vitals of die
Panama Canal would not only cut the jugular
vein of the hemisphere, but paralyse the U.S.
lifeline to the Pacific —to the Solomons, Aus-
tralia and even to Hawaii. Without it we
cannot fight what Admiral King calls “a twq-
ocean war with a one-ocean navy.” And it is
n«'t the fault of the Japanese, or of the Nazis
and the Fascists either, that this all-impor-
tant waterway is still intact. They had their
plans. They made them long in advance.
Along with Pearl Harbor and other strategic
points, the isthmus was also to have been a
scene of disaster on December 7. Thanks to
the foresight of those in charge of our forces
there, and the co-operation of the Panamanian
Government at that fateful time, not only
the locks and vital positions were manned and
protected, but every Japanese, Nazi and Fas-
cist in the entire area was covered. Within an
hour after the first flash from Honolulu on
December 7, every Japanese on the isthmus was
under arrest. — Edward Tomlinson, author and
authority on inter-American affairs.
* * * *
I do not believe Franco is deliberately trying
to double-cross the Allies. Commonsense must
tell him that he has little or nothing to gain
by helping Hitler, and much to lose. We can
help Spain with sorely-needed food and mate-
rials. The Axis can’t. Back in 1936-37 during
the civil war it was common talk that Franco
had agreed to all kinds of concessions in ex-
change for held from Hitler and Mussolini.
In January, 1937, the Scripps-Howard news-
papers cabled Franco and asked him: ‘ Will
you state the consideration motivating Italy
and Germany in coming to your support?
Has Italy been promised the Balearic Islands as
reported? Or other concessions? Has Ger-
many been promised a foothold in Spanish
Morocco? Or mining or other concessions?
Franco replied: “We have neither given nor
promised concessions of any kind, territorial
or otherwise, to anyone.” About the time we
queried Franco, there was published an Anglo-
Italian pact specifying that the “integrity of
present territories of Spain shall, in all circum-
stances, remain intact and unmodified. So
we asked Franco what his attitude was on this.
He replied: “The clause oi the Anglo-Italian
pact to which you refer is in harmony with the
principles which the new Spain will deter-
minedly uphold.” Five years have elapsed
since the Spanish war. Time has proved that
Franco was telling the truth. There have been
all kinds of rumors regarding “deals” between
Madrid, Rome and Berlin, but down to the
present, at least, that seems to be all they were
—rumors. Franco has insisted on remaining
neutral regardless of pressure. — Scripps-Howard
writer Wm. Philip Simms.
* * * *
The territory we occupy in North Africa
was never self-sufficient. It has been drained
drier than usual by Nazi requisitions in the past
two years and is now cut off from exchanges
with France. It emphasises the immediacy
of the tasks of relief and rehabilitation we
have undertaken as a weapon of war and a
preparation for peace. To liberate the con-
quered peoples without at once relieving the
hunger and misery Hitler has spread like a
plague would be to invite anarchy and chaos.
It would go far to nullify our victory by de-
laying, perhaps irrevocably, the social and eco-
nomic stabilisation essential to the restoration
of political order. Unless the promised food
follows the flags of the armies of deliverance,
starving people will not believe the larger
pledges made in the name of the United
Nations. Food will be a mighty weapon and a
powerful persuader in that crucial interval
between war and peace when the future of the
world will be decided. Americans can have no
illusions that the main responsibilty for the
coming relief work will not fall on them. We
know that former President Hoover is right
when he warns us that the United States will
have to feed the world after this war as it fed
Europe after the last war. — N.Y. “Times.’
* * * *
What is all this talk about the Italians being
“enslaved” by Mussolini and Hitler? On the
surface it looks that way. But on reflection
it is apparent that this “enslavement” of the
Italians is phony. Mussolini must have an
army of at least 4,000,000. And these men have
guns and pistols and ’planes. Well, if the
Italians really wanted to free themselves ot
Mussolini and of Hitler, why does not this
great army turn on the two gangsters and their
pals and give them the works? The French
in France and the Dutch and Norwegians are
not armed. But the Italians are. Well, what
are the latter waiting for? — N.Y. “Journal-
American” columnist.
* * * *
The Japanese made a contemptuous gesture
toward the West when they ordered the nightly
blackout abandoned in the Dutch East Indies.
They believe —or say they do —that they have
conquered that area completely and finally.—
“Saturday Evening Post.”
* * * *
The latest reliable figures on Jewish popu-
lations in German-controlled countries;
Sept., ’39. Now.
Germany 200,000 40,000
Austria 75 - 000 15 ’ 000
Bohemia-Moravia .. .. 80,000 15,000
Poland • • • • 3,300,000 2,000,000
Belgium 85,000 8,000
Netherlands ~ .. •• 180,000 69,000
Yugoslavia 73,000 ••••
France .. • • 300,000 235,000
Bulgaria 50,000 18,500
Slovakia 90,000 20,000
Latvia 100,000 4,000
Lithuania .. ■ ■ • • 150,000 6,000
* All drafted for labor, tln forced labor.
—Statement by U.S. Rabbi Stephen S. Wise.
* * * *
Despite the Allied blockade, German ex-
ports to Argentina, carried aboard Spanish
and Portuguese ships, have increased 100 per
cent, since the war. — N.Y. “ Daily Mirror.”
* * * *
When Petain remained within the reduced
confines of his conquered country he was doing
the only possible thing for the safety of mil-
lions of his compatriots. One cannot completely
abandon the soil of one’s fatherland. With a
knife at his throat and a pistol at his side, he,
for months on end, prevented the Germans
from occupying all France, the ports of the
Mediterranean and the approaches to North
Africa. In the midst of his pathetic and mis-
understood role his vision was the long one.
Until the advent of the unspeakable Laval,
Marshal Petain had been most useful to the
Allied cause. When the history of this war
can he finally written this old and tireless
man will be seen as a very great diplomat.—
N Y. “Herald Tribune” letter by Henry de
Courcy May, who lived years in France.


For Inflamed Eyes and Eyelids
SOLD EVERYWHERE
H. A. Rose & Co. Pty. Ltd., King St., Sydney
Missing Beneficiary.
WILL any person knowing the whereabouts
of MISS N. B. LOVETT, daughter of Charles
Lovett, or any of her idations, kindly com-
municate with the DISTRICT PUBLIC TRUS-
EE, Hamilton, New Zealand?
Missing Friends.
CULLEN.—GORDON CULLEN, born about
1910, formerly of Longford, Tasmania, advan-
tage. Write MR. TELLER, 16 Pirie Street,
Adelaide.
WRIGHT.—ALBERT EDWARD WRIGHT,
HERBERT FREDERICK WRIGHT and
HARRY WRIGHT (brothers), now or formerly
of W.A., or issue, advantage. Write MR.
TELLER, 16 Parie Street, Adelaide, urgent.
Of. SHELDON'S
ft
bring quick relief
from
RHEUMATISM
Dr. Sheldon’s Gin Pills assist the Kidneys in their
action; help them to banish all excess uric acid, thus
bringing prompt relief from Rheumatism.
DIRECTIONS for taking
Dr, Sheldon's GIN PILLS
Take one or two Gin
Pills with a glassful of
water either before or
after meals, and another
when retiring. It is im-
portant to drink plenty
of water or barley-
water.
11l n
lip
*/,,, / ,>1
1
■
Ample supplies obtainable from all Chemists
Dr. SHELDON'S
Small Size - - 1/9
Large Size - - 2/9
mm mm
olt T H E
“No thanks, we’ll
71
M
*9
Sc
*v
stay at home
M
we’re saving all we can
You won’t really miss that extra
night out and the money you’ll
save hy staying at home can huy
urgently needed equipment for
Australia’s fighting men.
Remember this before you spend a
penny on anything but absolute
necessities remember that the
more you save and lend to the
Government the more ships, guns,
tanks and planes can be supplied
for Victory. Stop unnecessary
spending—save and lend.
Has Your Street a War Savings Group
Every street may participate in Australia’s
War Savings Drive. When a group in your
street has been formed, a sign will be erected
in a prominent position. An authorised col-
lector will call on you.
If no one has already called on you so far,
apply at your local Council Chambers for a
Voluntary Worker’s Badge and start a group
yourself.
HERE IS WHAT
YOUR MONEY CAN DO
6dL buys a War Savings
Stamp,
16'- a War Savings
Certificate,
£lO a National Savings
Bond.
Or you may make an ad-
vance subscription to the
next War Loan at any Bank,
Savings Bank, Money Order
Post Office or Stockbroker,
NOTHING MATTERS NOW BUT VICTORY
SAVE AND LEND
Service Department.
Wants.
To buy A History of the Protestant Refor-
mation, by William Cobbett, and The Making
of Americans and Three Lives, by Gertrude
Stein—333l.
To buy Think and Grow Rich, by Napoleon
Hi 11.—3332.
Names and addresses of associations or
societies of draughtsmen in U.S.A. or Canada.
—3330.
Information Sought.
(1) Did Maggie Moore, about 1874 or 1875,
take part in “Rip Van Winkle” ? (2) Did she
fbout the same time appear in Melbourne in
Struck Oil,” and, if so, what part did she
take ?
(1) Can find no record of it. (2) Yes; she
played Lizzie Stofel in “Struck Oil,” which
opened in Sydney in 1874, and was staged in
Melbourne late the same year or early 1875.
* * * *
At what stage of their growth and in what
strength should liquid cow manure be applied
to young cauliflower seedlings?
A month after planting out give cauliflower
plants weekly doses of liquid manure (color
of weak tea), and when the heads form apply
it every fourth day.
* * * *
Two points in cricket umpiring: (1) Under
first-grade competition rules when one of the
umpires fails to attend, what procedure is fol-
lowed? (2) When a batsman leaves the crease
under a misapprehension should the umpire
recall him ?
(1) A substitute is found among the spec-
tators, or one of the opposing players acts.
Generally the substitute only performs the duties
as a “leg-side” umpire, the official umpire
taking up position at the bowling end at each
ove , r - The substitute gives decisions on run-out
and stumping; on other matters in collabora-
tion with the official umpire. The matter is an
arrangement between the teams. (2) Under in-
terpretations to umpires, N.S.W. Cricket Associ-
ation emphasises that “it is not part of the
umpire’s duty to call back a batsman who is
leaving the wicket under a misapprehension;
but the umpire should try and prevent such mis-
apprehension by ‘calling’ distinctly and by
giving the proper signal.” A captain noting
such an episode, however, would invariably
recall the batsman.
* * * *
Did Barney Ross (recently cited for bravery
with U.S. Marines at Guadalcanal) ever win the
worlds lightweight boxing championship?
Yes, when he outpointed Tony Canzoneri
(10 rounds, Chicago) on June 23, 1933.
* * * He
(1) From whom did Bob Fitzsimmons win
the world’s heavyweight championship, and
y i°t defeated him for it? (2) Did Fitzsimmons
hold three world championships at one time?
(1) Fitzsimmons beat Jim Corbett (14-round
k. 0.) at Carson City, Nevada, on March 17,
1897. He lost the title to James J. Jeffries
(11-round t.k.0.) at Coney Island, N.Y., on
June 9, 1899. (2) No. He won the middle-
weight title from “Nonpareil” Jack Dempsey
(13-round t.k.0.) at New Orleans on January 14,
1891, but, although still able to make middle-
weight (then 11.4), he relinquished the cham-
pionship to fight Corbett. Fitzsimmons won
the light-heavyweight championship from George
Gardner (20 rounds, points) at San Francisco
on November 25, 1903, and lost it to “Phila-
delphia Jack” O’Brien (13-round k. 0.) at San
Francisco on December 20, 1905.
Brief Answers.
R. 8.1.: Subject too large to be dealt with here.
Broadly, position seems to be that will is
good but estate may be forfeited to Crown.
Nephews and nieces have no interest unless it
can be proved that the testator was not of
testamentary capacity when will was made
0.D.D.: If the agreement was for no fixed
period and did not purport to bind your father’s
successors in title it would end with his death
and your mother can request the neighbor to
remove the plant and thereafter refuse him
access to the property A. 8.: Yes. An
alteration (or codicil) to a will must be executed
in the same way as a will, i.e., in the presence
of two witnesses present at the same time
C. 8.: Depends on surrender value of policy
and many other things. Why not put it to your
bank?... .S.E.M.: Only thing which would be
taken into account would be rent of paddock,
and if total income does not exceed £5O this
would not affect pension W.R.G.: Yamba
means “a headland” and Caramut (more
properly Carramar) “shade of trees” J.P.:
Address of H. G. Wells is 13 Hanover-terrace,
Regent’s Park, London, N.W.1... .F.A.A.:
Write to the N. S. Wales Health Department,
52 Bridge-street, Sydney, for booklet on mos-
quito destruction R.F.8.: Try Walther and
Stevenson, 395 George-street, Sydney, or John
Brush, 371 George-street.
Answers to Correspondents
Name and address must appear on the MS. No
liability is undertaken re contributions voluntarily
submitted; and no MS. will be returned unless
stamps accompany. MS. should be addressed to
the Editor.
The Muse aroused:
L.D.:—
Man’s wish to use his right.
Oft won by counting votes,
ill lead him to betray,
With union-tempered notes,
The spirit of the race
That gave him freedom’s ease:
lie cannot see the truth
Through clouds of buzzing bees
L. 8.:
One listens to the brown owl’s whoop
And wonders
How his life could be a failure
When night and day are dreamt away
In this Eden of Australia.
J-B-M.; Write out of your own experience.
L'" uA' A ] I.H.: A touch of
it... .M.O. 234: Unlucky” is G.D.: Genu-
ine leehng, but always in someone else’s words.
A.C.W.: ‘ lThe path of duty”; “hope of
gueidon ; fill the breach”; “clarion cry”—
a good theme dulled by cliches J.McC.:
.Pleasant, but well below publication standard.
....8.L.: Should score elsewhere D.J.J.:
Scrappy... .J.G.C.: Like the seabird notion,
but the verse is rocky... .Y.H.: What’s all that
f.° out R.M.P.: You didn’t expect to catch
the rooon, did you?... .1.W.: Keep coming.
.-. .E.C.N.: No interest in short, platitudinous,
one-sided conversation with a koala
W.8.P.: None up... .H.W.K.: Gripes!....
M. In short, it’s sunset again... ,A.J.;
Merely descriptive... .M.G,: Like Tennyson,
we are burdened with innumerable bees
N. : Criticism applied—and still applies—
to all the humorous pieces. Tighten them
M.C.: Jerky... .D.A.G.: You’ve a long way
to g 0... .B.B.: “I’m known as Sam, the camp’s
cook. ’ Returning hash R.M.: Bright, but
too light... .A.L.T.: Admire the fiendish in-
genuity with which you had brought “hench-
man” to rhyme with “Frenchman” L.8.D.:
“And at once perambulates.” Perambulate it
did N.W.: All lightweights G.D.W.:
What on earth is a “brindle-branded building
scarping to a trellis-twitching tower”?
F.M.: “The morning star hung low in the sky
as I was born With dawn the light and I
grew stronger. I romped about the tiny cot-
tage making a nuisance of myself.” No place
here for infant prodigies E.A.G.: It doesn’t
make its point.
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC)
CORRESPONDENTS.
J.8.N.: Geometrical problem handed over to
the Service Department G.S.L.; Your bat-
tered-boxer drawing suffered a technical k.o
J.T.: At disinterring the dead you make
Jerry Cruncher look a mug H.S.L.: The
barmaid is barely distinguished from the beer-
pump.


What qualifications
should your trustee
possess?
He should be thoroughly trustworthy, possess
sound business experience and have know-
ledge of the law relating to trusts. He should
be able and willing to undertake the some-
times very heavy and continuous duties
involved. An individual possessing such
qualifications is hard to find. Moreover, he
must eventually age and his powers decline.
Neither is he immune from misfortune, and
he may die long before the trust is completed.
To vest a trusteeship in an individual is to
leave the consequences mainly to chance- and
it is a mistaken compliment to ask a friend
or relative so to act.
It is for these reasons that business men well
versed in affairs have for more than b 4 years
appointed The Trustees Executors and Agency
Company Limited to manage their estates.
The company’s services are devoted solely to
the care and management of the property of
its clients. Its Directors have wide experi-
ence and proved capacity and the duties
involved are not vested in one individual
the company’s service “goes on for ever”.
Consult your solicitor or call or write for
further information.
“TyVrv
THE TRUSTEES EXECUTORS
and Agency Company Ltd.
Incorporated in Victoria in 1878
1 BLIGH ST.. SYDNEY, AND AT 1(D COIIINS ST MFI BQURNt
Capital (paid and uncalled ) and Reserves and
Undivided Profits, £ 959,622.
BOARD OF DIRECTORS:
Sir Alexander Stewart (Chairman) ;
D. Stuart Murray; Sir Claude Reading, K.C.M.G.;
Sir Lennon Raws, C.B-E.; G. S. Colman, C.8.E.;
Sir Alan Newton.
NEW SOUTH WALES IJIRECTORS:
Sir Claude Reading, K.C.M.G. (Chairman);
W. D. Stewart; R. T. Hilder.
N.S.W. MANAGER; J. W. Russell French.
Gen. Manager: W. Sydney
Jones, Manager: K. M. Hughe
THE EVERLASTING VALVE.
g
This valve is made in the flanged
and screwed type of gunmetal
throughout. The ideal valve for
Boiler Blowoff, as it is leakproof,
simple, easily operated, quick
acting, straight blow through
and no Stuffing Box. Made in all sizes from one inch. No atten-
tion required after being installed, as it is self-grinding in action.
All valves tested to 6001 b. hydraulic pressure. Send for our
Bulletin and let us quote you.
Sole Manufacturers;
GUTHR DGE PTY. LIMITED
10-12 Parramatta Road, Camperdown, N.S.W.
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
Carlton and United Breweries, Ltd.
r- —Dividends ,
Pref. Ord. To Re- Nominal
June, Profit. 10 p.c. 10 p.c. serves. Reserves. *
£ £ £ £ £
1932.. 223,927 20,000 175,000 28,927 1,349.030
1933.. 234,540 20.000 175,000 39,540 1,388,575
1934.. 249,613 20,000 175,000 54,613 1,443,188
Reserves capitalised, £975,000 .. 468,188
8 p.c. 8 p.c.
1935.. 270,668 24,000 210,000 36,668 504,856
10 p.c. 10 p.c.
1936.. 381,653 30,000 262,500 89,153 594,009
124 p.c. p.c.
1937.. 453,997 37,500 328,125 88,372 682,381
1938.. 493,668 37,500 328,125 128,043 810,424
Properties, plant and investment
reserve disclosed, £972,000 .. 1,782,424
1939.. 528.892 37,500 328.125 163,267 1,945,691
1940.. 570,610 37,500 328,125 204,985 2,150,076
* Subject to £BOO,OOO originally paid for goodwill.
C.U.B. and Subsidiaries.*
( Dividends —
Pref. Ord. To Re- Net
Profit. 124 p.c. 124 p.c. serves. Reserves.
1941.. 559,576 37,500 328,125 193.951 1,701,371
1942.. 504,428 37,500 328,125 138,803 1,840,174
* Eliminating outsiders’ interests.
Following subsequent consolidation and
absorptions, the merger of a half-dozen
waterlogged Melbourne breweries 35
years back has given the co. a tight grip
of the trade in its home State. In addi-
tion, it is (or was) the most important
factor in the inter-State and export trade
—the latter amounted to 9,767,000 gal-
lons in 1941 —and solid connections exist
in the N.S.W. Riverina and (as a brewer)
in North Queensland.
Investment interest is indirect mainly
through these half-dozen listed cos.,
which control 82 p.c. of C.U.B.’s capital;
Last Market
Paid Holding Div., Yield,
Capital. C.U.B. p.c. p.c.
Carlton .. ..£816,992 £928,295 144 4.4
Melb. Co-op. . . 431,981 986,901 26# 5.9
Castlemaine .. 225,000 176,121 10 5.4
Foster . . . - 115,200 124,574 13 5.2
Shamrock .. 141,345 124,574 11 4.9
McCracken’s . . 62,438 62,438 12J
Apart from operating-co. divs., some
have a supplementary source of income
from hotel properties, etc., and these
need to be considered along with C.U.B.
figures in estimating the business the
organisation had tied up before public
war-time financial policy curtailed
further purchases and renovations.
Chief factor in brewery economics
(and the fall in profit) last year was the
one-third cut from March in beer pro-
duction and deliveries to hotels, based
on thirsty Jan.-Feb. consumption. A
further knock since the close of accounts
has been cessation of the previous heavy
freighting of liquor between Australian
ports. Also, about the only recovered
cost-increase has consisted of war-time
excise (now 4s. 7d. a gallon): 2s. lOd.
has gone on since June, 1939 —3d. at the
outbreak of war and 9d., 3d. and Is. 7d.
in successive Budgets since. On dis-
pensing the brew. Bung has recovered
rather more than the extra excise through
general use of the small 7oz. container,
compensating at least in part for his
higher outgoings, interference with
trading hours and regimentation of
dining-room services. Service canteens
don’t come within the general rationing
scheme ; but the army rations itself, and,
though considerable in the aggregate,
service men’s camp expenditure on the
average is much below lay beliefs.
Under the influence of expanding pay-
rolls and full employment, Victorian beer
consumption was in excess of 14 gallons
a head p.a. when direct Federal restric-
tive action was taken 10 months ago.
Because of this and record taxation, the
drop in net earnings of C.U.B. and sub-
sidiaries was £55,148 after depreciation
of £65,616 (down £9235). Combined
profit of £504,428 was 17.2 p.c. on capi-
tal, against 19.1 p.c. the year before. So
the 12| p.c. the holding cos. again
pocketed presented no difficulties; the
margin of £138,803 is likely to be of
far more moderate dimensions this year.
Still, if the careful board cares to do
so, it is in a position to go on distributing
war takings as they are earned:
C.U.B. and Subsidiaries.
1940. 1941. 1942.
Paid capital . . £2,925,000 £2,925,000 £2,925,000
Outside interests* 9,878 9,993 IO.uOS
Creditors!.. .. 759,683 901,868 861,546
Suspense account. . 11,315 11,279 2,604
Freeholds, „ „
breweries etc. . 2,398,605 2,429,160 2,431,897
Plant .’. •• 710,281 689,461 716,365
Stocks etc * - 455,747 580,139 548,283
Book debts .. 1.249,239 1,293,306 1,130,588
Cash, etc. . . 582.257 740,257 995,506
* Includes proportion reserves, t Includes tax reserves.
The £861,546 (down £40,322) coming to
outsiders is probably substantially tax
reservation. The cosy cash position bene-
fited by £255,249, mainly through reduc-
tions of £162,718 and £31,856 in debtors
and stocks respectively. The surplus of
more or less liquids (£1,812,831) was
£100,997 stronger.
Permanent Trustee Co. (Sydney)
To Re-
Sept., Profit. Dividends. Reserves, serves.
£, £,£*£*
1928.. 13,686 9 p.e. = 9.900 3786 41,748
1929.. 15,541 10 „ „ 11,000 4541 46,289
1930.. 15,441 10 „ „ 11,000 4441 50,730
1931.. 11,675 7 „ „ 7,700 3975 54,705
1932.. 9,168 6 ~ ~ 6,600 2508 57,273
1933.'. 8.712 6 ~ „ 6,600 2112 59,385
1934.. 8,962 6 „ ~ 6.600 2362 61,747
1935.. 9,109 6 „ „ 6,600 2509 64,256
1936.. 11,030 7 „ „ 7,700 3930 68,186
1937.. 12,762 10 ~ „ 11,000 1762 69,948
1938.. 12.180 10 „ ~ 11,000 1180 71,128
1939.. 12,232 10 ~ ~11,000 1232 72,360
1940.. 11,812 10 „ „ 11,000 812 73,172
1941.. 11,669 10 „ ~11.000 069 73,841
1942.. 11,177 10 „ ~ 11,000 177 74,018
The exigencies of war and the growing
uncertainties and complications they have
given rise to have created an urgent need
for revision of wills as well as thrown
into bold relief the advantages of the cor-
porate over the private trustee. This
helps to explain the steady expansion in
the volume of business placed in the
expert care of the trustee cos. Thus
war has done the cos. no harm in this
connection. But economic changes re-
sulting from the adoption of a war
economy have forced taxation and costs
generally to advance at such a brisk
rate that they have outpaced revenue
gains from expanding business, while
legislation has anchored corpus and com-
mission charges and kept interest rates
and rents low. Another factor which
has added to the difficulties of manage-
ment has been transfer of male labor to
the armed forces and to war industry.
Indeed, the supreme demands of war
have brought systematic mobilisation of
men and women for essential industries,
and official combing of staffs has replaced
incentives to transfer and appeals to “a
co-operative will.”
The next table shows the steady growth
in the Permanent’s business, among other
things, over a long period:
Exes. p.c.
Gross of Gross
Trust Funds. Earnings. Exes. Earnings.
1910.. £3,029,970 £11,743 £4,930 42.0 p.c.
1920 6,349,568 24,948 15,689 62.9 „
1925.. 9,895,117 42,950 27,771 64.7 „
1930.. 15,975,572 61,899 45,858 74.0 „
1932.. 17,909.175 57,881 48,114 83.1 „
1933. . 18,150,645 54.663 45,350 82.9 „
1934.. 19,048,865 54,142 44,580 82.3 „
1935.. 19,613,027 54,410 44,700 82.1 „
1936.. 20,191.487 60,662 48,431 79.8 „
1937.. 20,612,149 65,875 52,513 79.7 ~
1938.. 21,117,323 70,121 57,341 81.7 ~
1939.. 21.890.250 72,998 60,166 82.4 „
1940.. 22,534,608 75,014 62,602 83.4 „
1941.. 22,854,436 78,087 65,818 84.2 ~
1942.. 23,656,504 80,195 68,418 85.3 „
Last term net increase in the volume of
trusts on the books was £802,068, and
gross earnings from all sources improved
by £2lOB. The growth in exes, was £2600,
mainly on account of taxation. After
writing another £6OO off premises, the net
result (down £492) was 10.1 p.c. on
£llO,OOO of paid capital, as against 10.6,
10.7, 11.1, 11, 11.6, 10.5 and 8.2 p.c. back
to 1935. The div. was kept at 10 p.c.
On shareholders’ funds (capital and
reserves combined) the year’s net earn-
ings were a shade over 6 p.c., and that is
better than most trustees are able to
exhibit. Still, reading the writing on the
wall, chairman F. N. Yarwood warned
shareholders that they will be wise to
take a conservative view of the future
so far as earnings are concerned, bearing
out the “Wild Cat’s” prediction a year
back that “the margin of profit can be
expected to get narrower before it
broadens.”
At the end of September last the co.’s
own funds, together with £12,494 coming
to sundry creditors, etc., were represented
by Government securities £32,991, prem-
ises, etc., £54,478, mortgages, etc.,
£76,390, cash £32,654 and shares m sub-
sidiary £5OOO. This offshoot was set up
in Canberra during the year, and has not
yet contributed to the pool.
Brisbane Permanent Building
Dividends and To Ee-
Auff., Profit Dividend Tax. serves. Reserves.
£ & £ £
1930.. 49,737 10 p.c. = 40.000 9,737 132,172
1931. 35.383 7., „ 28 000 1 4>353 i 3 6,555
Contingency reserve, £3OOO )
Q’iand Deposit Bank absorbed on share-
for-siiare basis; reserves written off.
Loss on Govt, stocks, £17.300 . . 119,255
1832. . 30,083 5 p.c. = 27,359 2,724 121,979
1933.. 35,890 4,, ~ 27,042 7 5040 127 827
Contingency reserve, £3OOO |
Surplus on sale property, £16,250.. 144,077
From tax reserve, £lO,OOO . . • • 154,077
1934.. 38,799 4 p.c.= 27,304 11,495 165,572
Unexplained reduction, £5713 . . 159,859
1935.. 48,079 44 p.c. = 30,717 17,362 177,221
1936.. 48,998 5„ „ 34,457 14,541 191,762
1937.. 51,916 5,, ~ 37,345 14,571 206,333
1938.. 54,823 5 „ „ 37,500 17,323 223,656
To contingencies, £7500 .. •• 216,156
1939.. 52,426 5 p.c. = 37,500 14,926 231.082
1940.. 52.732 5 „ „ 37,500 15,232 246,314
1941.. 45.746 5,. „ 37,500 8,246 254,560
1942.. 45,297 5 „ „ 37,500 7,797 262,257
As the name implies, the business con-
sists mainly in loans, secured on mort-
gage, in connection with home and other
building. But there is a dash of general
banking to give spice to things, and the
institution was accordingly licensed dur-
ing the year as a trading bank under the
War-time Banking Control Regulations.
Thus, among other things, the co.’s
ability to purchase Government, public-
body or listed securities is circumscribed,
advances must conform to the economic
policy of the central bank and the charge
for accommodation is limited to 5 p.c.
p.a. On the other hand, deposit rates
have been cut, but owing to the time lag
this represents largely a delayed-action
benefit.
Loans under mortgage have been simi-
larly hedged round with restrictions, and
finance can now be extended only for the
purchase of homes in which the mortga-
gor intends personally to reside. More-
over, Treasury consent is required where
the total of new mortgages and those
given during the preceding year exceeds
£5OO ; the original limit was £5OOO, suc-
cessive limitations being:
December 17, 1941, reduced to .. £2500
January 28, 1942, reduced to .... 1500
April 27, 1942, reduced to touu
August 25, 1942, reduced to 500
First mortgages are renewable at the
lower of the old rates of interest or 5
p.c.; second mortgages may carry the
existing rate. .
To make things tougher, cessation ot
all private building and renovations has
occurred in the northern metropolis as
elsewhere. All this direct and indirect
restriction of investment opportunities is
apparent in finances, besides earning-
power :
1935. 1940. 1941. 1942.
Paid capital. . £682,600 £750,000 £750,000 £750,000
De i P iabhite! he i,s4l,94o 1,423,660 1,411,853
Tax reserve . . 23,429 28,383 33,266
Premises, etc. 52,260 50,512 51,243 48,224
Advances . . 1,755,147 1,814,211 1,759,637 1,668,020
Public securi- , Q 1
ties and cash 634,846 602,324 657,549 680,091
Fortunately, as loans have been repaid,
the co. has been able to reduce its own
indebtedness to depositors and others, the
contraction last year in liabilities and
advances being £41,118 and £91,611 re-
spectively. Liquids benefited by £28,04..,
and when the books closed were declared
512 pc. of public liabilities compared
with 46.6 p.c. in 1941. All evidence ot
considerable stability, though at the ex-
pense of earning capacity.
Precisely how this last object of share-
holders’ interest was affected last year is
obscured by changed presentation ot p.
and 1. figures. But after providing for
contingencies the net balance was only
£449 lighter at 6 p.c. on capital, and div.
was kept at 5 p.c. The 1941 tax bill,
£3l 243 in all, came in for £3243 more
than had been anticipated; the excess
appears to have been chalked up to con-
tingencies, tax provision in the latest
accounts being £26,166. More may yet
be required, and the influences enumer-
ated before have to make their full
presence felt. The contributory property
insurance scheme affords protection
against possibility of war loss.


PATENTS. —Have you an idea worth patenting?
Griffith, Hassel and Griffith, Patent Attorneys,
Asbestos House, Cr. York and Barrack Streets, Sydney,
obtain Commonwealth and foreign patents.—Advt.
* * * *
DAVIES & COLLI SON, Patent Attorneys. Collins
House, 360 Collins Street, Melbourne, C.X. Austra-
lian and overseas Patents and Trade Marks. — Advt.
The Mutual Life and Citizens’
Assurance Company, Limited
Martin Place and Castlereagh Street,
SYDNEY.
Founded 1886.
There is no better way of providing
cash for your family, or for yourself
when you retire, than by taking out
a policy with The M.L.C.
ASSETS EXCEED £34,000,000
ANNUAL INCOME EXCEEDS
£5,200,000.
M. C. Alder, A.1.A.,
General Manager.'
IF anything happened to you, is
it fair to burden your relatives
or friends with your business
worries? It is a task that calls for
specialised training and know-
ledge. For your own sake, and
for your dependants, entrust the
administration of your estate to
experienced trustees.
Smith, Boydell & Company is an
organisation specialising in the man-
agement and supervision of estates
and personal business. The principals
—H. Landon Smith and F. M.
Boydell, A.1.C.A., A.C.1.5., person-
ally direct all transactions. Special
facilities are available for country
and interstate business. Write now
for free brochure explaining how this
service can assist you.
SmiTOOVDfLL&CO
i 58 MARGARET ST., SYDNEY
THE ELECTROLYTIC REFINING & SMELTING COMPANY
OF AUSTRALIA PROPRIETARY, LIMITED.
WORKS: PORT KEMBLA, N.S.W.
Purchasers of all Copper and Gold-bearing Materials
360 Collins Street, MELBOURNE. 25 O’Connell Street, SYDNEY.
M 4383. 86371.
*
n
w
a
RUBBER
IS MORE GOLD
To-day’s war emergency makes the Tyres on
your car an asset as important to you and your
Country as coal, wheat, or petrol, and far more
precious than gold.
Treble the life of your Tyres by braking sparingly . . .
checking inflation pressures daily . . . cornering
slowly . . . not exceeding 30 m.p.h. . . . and changing
tyres from wheel to wheel every 5000 miles.
You will help Australia and yourself.
Olympic
THE OLYMPIC TYRE & RUBBER CO. LTD.
CAPSTAN
The Empire’s
Favourite Cigarette
ill; iii 5 1
Lend your Money to hasten Victory.
Buy £lO National Savings Bonds or
War Savings Certificates.
19940*11.42
Westralian Goldmining, 1942
Mainly owing to man-power restrictions,
Westralian gold production was knocked
back from 1,109,318 fine ounces in 1941
to 865,4950 z. last year, and 1943 output
will be just as impressively less —prob-
ably below 600,0000 z., according to a
Mines Department spokesman. These
restrictions have also introduced indirect
State financial losses in matters such as
railway revenue. Closure of Youanmi
wiped out the previously flourishing town-
ship of that name. Cue, following the
shutting-down of Triton, and Laverton,
because some mines went out of produc-
tion and others yielded less, also suffered
substantial depletion of population. Gold-
mining, normally worth more than any
other two, industries in the West, has
seen its man-power reduced from 16,000
to 4500, those remaining being mostly
over 45. But for man-power restric-
tions, employment in the industry would
probably have improved, especially as
Mt. Charlotte contemplated large-scale
operations and others planned increased
production and development. As condi-
tions are at present, there appears no-
thing to warrant further reduction of
■ man-power in the industry, but that isn’t
to tip that the authorities will not go
on doing so.
From London:
“Great Boulder Shareholders’ Committee’’
(chairman, W. A. Barton, K.C.) has replied to
“Shareholders’ Resumption Group” (B.
13/1/ ’43) to the effect that proposals have
been submitted to the liquidator which may
shortly lead to a practical and workable scheme
to protect fully the rights and interests of all
shareholders. Treasury, Board of Trade, Court
and London ’Change approval will be needed.
As the affairs of Gt. Boulder (W.A.)
seem to be drifting to a deadlock, the
suggestion of an amalgamation has been
revived. Some years ago, when Golden
Horse Shoe, Chaffer’s and Ivanhoe were
being linked up with Lake View and
Star, it was desired to include the
Boulder in the group, but the board of
the latter wouldn’t consent. Boulder
Perseverance is mentioned as another
that might be willing to co-operate. Both
its main mine and the Enterprise, in
which it is a big shareholder, adjoin
the Boulder, one on the east and the other
on the north.
* * t *
Boulder Perseverance (W.A.) belatedly
reports that ore mined and treated in
1941 was 120,923 (up 4742) long tons
averaging 6.6dwt. per ton, a decrease in
grade of o.2dwt. Total costs at 365. 7d.
Australian showed a rise of 7.28 d. a ton.
Broken, proved and probable ore at the
close of the year was 554,000 tons
averaging 6.osdwt, against 490,300 tons
and 6.lBdwt. a year before.
In the same period Kalgoorlie Enter-
prise, Perseverance’s 65 p.c.-owned subsi-
diary, crushed 70,379 (up 1439) tons of
average 6.Bdwt. material, an increase of
o.2dwt. compared with 1940. Costs rose
from 365. lid. to 38s. a ton. Ore
reserves here were maintained at 424,000
tons, grade fractionally lower at 6.34dwt.
Neither Perseverance nor Enterprise has
released current production figures for
some time.
* * * *
Metropolitan Mining and Develop-
ment, Ltd., which has operated at Mt.
Magnet for some years, has finished, and
at a meeting on Feb. 9 will ask to wind
up. For the year ended June £1536 was
earned after charging £7957 for develop-
ment. Extracts from a mournful report:
It became apparent towards the close
of the year that the size and grade of the
shoot couldn’t be maintained in depth....
Difficulty in obtaining labor and supplies
adversely affected our position... .increased
cost of supplies raised operating expendi-
ture In view of the uncertainty of the
future of goldmining outgoings were cut
to a minimum... .On the advice of our
consulting engineer it was decided to ex-
tract all available ore and close down.
Mt. Magnet has a reputation as a grave-
yard of gold-bearing shoots when depth
is approached.
* * * *
First Hit (W.A.) paid an interim three-
penny dividend on January 22. Although
latest profits at £15,000 were £7OOO lower
and ore reserves at 8335 tons declined
4000 tons, there is stated to be no cause
for alarm.
* * * *
Ngahere, dredging along the Grey
River (M.L.), fared a bit better in the
year to December; turnover was
2,933,000 c.y. for 79800 z. bullion, against
a gold recovery of 73970 z. gold during
1941. Just what impression has been
made on the £58,452 of debt existing a
year ago only the accounts will tell. Re-
coveries continued around the I.3gr.
averaged from the property to date —
less than half the bore values on which
the co. was floated, but nevertheless
sufficient to enable a “useful profit” to
be earned, the board declared a year ago.
The bouldery and tight nature of the
wash keeps turnover down and costs up.
A prospecting license over 1270 acres
of adjoining river flats is held.
* * * *
Decision to close down 'United States
goldmines makes no difference to the
U.S. Treasury’s policy of buying all gold
offered to it at the present price.
Answering an interviewer on his visit to
London, Secretary to the Treasury Mor-
genthau stated emphatically that “gold
offered, whether from South Africa,
Russia or any other source, would con-
tinue to be bought at 35 dollars an ounce.”
He added that the sole object in closing
down goldmines was to release labor for
mining of copper and other strategic
metals. There was no intention, he added,
of putting the huge gold stocks at Fort
Knox into circulation in the form of
coins. London “Financial Times” says
that the short answer to pessimistic specu-
lation one occasionally hears as to the
post-war prospect for the metal is that
gold cannot be done without so long
as there is no satisfactory and universally
acceptable alternative standard of value
and measure of international exchange.
A Yankee mining engineer, formerly
in Westralia, now in New York, writes:
Within one week from October 15, the date
of publication of the gold-production ban, .
mines stopped breaking new ore. By Decem-
ber 7 all operations ceased except maintenance.
The order covers all lode or placer goldmines,
including those in United States overseas posses-
sions, amongst which is Alaska. There are
only two exceptions: mines which, owing to
their output of strategic minerals, have been
given preference rating, and those which in
1941 produced less than 1200 tons of com-
mercial ore or treated less than 1000 c.y. of
material. For these small shows future pro-
duction limit is fixed at 100 tons of ore or
100 c.y. of material a month. Appeals of
exceptional and unreasonable hardship may be
made to the War Production Board.
BRIEF ANSWERS.
W. 8.: Galena (lead sulphide) varies in value
according to its content of the associated pay
metals, lead, silver and gold, and the percentage,
if any of impurities, such as arsenic, bismuth,
copper. Arsenical pyrites is .a drawback, and
would probably incur a penalty. Submit an
analysis to B.H. Associated Smelters, Port
Pirie (S A.), or to Frank Hambndge Pty.,
Sydney, and ask for a tariff. Situation as re-
gards transport, as well as assay and mine
costs, will determine payable grade.


a. 4-C7
i
4#
i*S
aft*
■<£W for Food
Today producing Australia’s three meals a day
is as important as producing direct war weapons.
Strange as it may seem the same chemical industry
provides nitrogen compounds used by the farmer
as fertilizers and as basic ingredients for explosives
manufacture.
The productivity of our crops, herds and flocks and
our own human nutrition depend upon an adequate
supply of nitrogen compounds:—Ammonia and
nitrates for plants: plant proteins for grazing
animals; meat and bread for humans.
Tomorrow with war behind us the chemical
industry will be able to provide not only more of
the products essential in food production and pre-
servation, but also in addition the beginnings for
dyes, drugs, plastics, etc. all of importance to
national progress.
“NITROGEN FIXATION — A Miracle of Industry .”
“Of all the industrial establishments of Australia I should
ount this one, in some ways, the most impressive a
glimpse of the technological age to come when mankind,
if its social organisation is equal to its inventive -
ness, can make the earth a place of ample leisure
and abounding plenty .”
Extract from the Melbourne
‘Herald’, October 15th, 1942.
IMPERIAL CHEMICAL INDUSTRIES
OF AUSTRALIA & NEW ZEALAND LTD.
Safe and Profitable —
A CATHOLIC POLICY
• Old age or untimely death terminates a man s earning-power, but matures
• Think of your dependants, and the time When YOU will be dependent.
With a Catholic whole-life or endowment contract you can * 8° wrong.
Your premiums earn bonuses, which accumulate as the policy matures.
• Take out a Catholic policy and you have a front-rank investment The
office directs attention to “The Bulletin’s” criticism (26/1/ 38). Policy-
holders get 90 p.c. of the profits.
Australasian
CATHOLIC
Assurance
tU., JUJLI/,,
Head Office; Corner King and York Streets, Sydney.
CO., LTD.,
E. J. Mooney, Managing Director,
P. J. Ryan, Secretary.
Branch Offices:
\. DlllLUlMr, AI yr vjvnriii unu-ui,
Bank ok N. S. Wakes Chambers, 12 Kino William Street, Adelaide,
a: Warwick House, St. Geokof/s Terrace, Perth.
District Offices and Agencies Throughout the States.
Business, Rollery, Etc.
The High Cost of Politics
After years of hard work at the task
of scrambling the brains and softening
u„„i,u t
the backbone of its adherents political
Labor is itself now so confused and be-
luduled tnat it seems impossible for it
to present a straightforward case to the
Australian people or to deal forthrightly
with any problem. There appear to be
strings to everything, and so much gov-
ernment by humbug on Federal Labor’s
part that there is the suspicion of
politics in each major move or an-
nouncement by the Government. Its
finance is political, not practical; its
industrial policy shrieks of politics ; the
Army itself has become the football of
politics. The people have become so
accustomed to finding a political brick
in everything that even the Common-
wealth Powers Bill is now suspect in
quarters hitherto favorable to the exten-
sion of national powers.
„ f. . x 4
Politics are costing Australia a tremen-
dous amount of money Our war effort
is notable for a number of anomalies
that are haying a bad effect on the
conduct of the war and the distribution
of the war burden. Prominent among
these disturbing curiosities is the high
rate paid for overtime in the more essen-
tial war industries, where labor is a
big factor in costs. In manufacturing
activity of any kind unionism is much
stronger than where “white-collar”
workers are concerned, and unionism and
. r . , .
penalty rates for go and i
hand. In the white-collar civil service
overtime is not unknown, but by itself
it is not quite such a potent factor of
inflation and injustice as in industry.
The heavy penalty rates charged by
wharf-laborers, etc., for their services
under present conditions is just another
example of the abuse of trade-union prin-
ciples. The idea of asking time and a
half, double time, etc., for hours worked
in excess of the statutory number was
based on the fact that in peace-time Aus-
Iralia nearly always had an excess of man-
power; in other words, there was nearly
ways ’ some unemployment. The charg-
ing o£ higher rates for overtime encoUr-
aged the spreading of whatever work was
available over the greatest number of
workers ; it paid the employer to work
a larger number of men eight hours a
day than a smaller number of men ten
hours a day. Without the check of over-
time penalties, an hour’s extra work a
eight men would keep a nmt
man out a j°b.
Australian industry has lost a big pro-
Portion of its more useful man-power to
fating services. The shortage of
sklll « d ' ab ° r if acute and we have the
w ° rd d£ , the Prlme Munster for it that
the whole man-power position in this
comu y Is very serious because of the
strain t P“t >t by war developments
° ver the last 12 mdnths - Man-power has
become one of the most vital problems
in Australia . s share of , he war job . But
while the common soldi sweati flght .
ing and perhaps dyjng in New Guinea ,
gets a nom j na [ ra£e Q |; p a y, the unionists
w h D are asked to make up the gap in
the home-front ranks by working more
hours are paid higher rates than ever
before. Put bluntly, one section of Aus-
tralians is actually in pocket as a result
of another section being unavailable for
ordinary work because it has been given
t he task of keeping the Japanese away
Australia and everything in it, m-
eluding industries, industrial workers and
t heir standard of life, to which so much
politics and legislation have been
devoted in the past,
jj- j s esse ntial that hours in excess of
the statutory 44 per week be worked in
most munition factories. In peace-
time the old 48-hour week was not in-
jurious to the health, even if not the
Labor ideal in a well-regulated world at
peace. It is quite possible to work hours
in excess of 50 a week without impairing
health or efficiency. For such extra hours
extra pay is only right. But penalty rates
of pay are absolutely unjustifiable. This
is a total war, and the civilian is in it
as well as the soldier. And he fs not
in it just to make profit out of a job
which, in the aggregate, must be profit-
less in the economic sense. This war is
for security of life and living standards,
not, to the Allies, for spoils.
Who pays overtime? The nation at
present pays it. So much of all Austra-
lian activity is devoted to the job of war
work, which is a Government responsi-
bility, that most kinds of extra cost that
arise are paid for out of the national
purse. The manufacturer is made allow-
ance by the Prices Commissioner for in-
creased wages, etc., and so he passes the
greater proportion of them on. On the
other hand, if penalty rates for overtime
were abolished, the manufacturer would
have to hand the benefit on. In cost-
plus contracts the advantage to the Gov-
ernment would be automatic. Heavy
company taxation is a secondary dragnet
to catch anything missed by the Prices
Commissioner.
Overtime loading is a prime factor in
the bloated cost of war and the general
inflation now evident in this country. The
skilled workman has to be worked over-
time ; his offsider who has gone into the
army cannot be immediately and effec-
tively replaced by a dilutee. Extra hours
a week from old hands are of the utmost
value to the war effort. But there are so
many of these extra hours in the cost-
sheets of this war that when loaded at
penalty rates they run into tens of mil-
lions of pounds a year. This is not hard
to realise when it is known that war is
costing Australia over £5OO million a
year ; and the fact that some classes are
making money out of the war while
others are suffering a double share of its
cost makes the position more dangerous
still. Labor in peace-time used to regard
the uneven distribution of wealth, as be-
tween Capital and Labor, as being a fruit-
ful source of depression. But Labor now
is plainly creating inequalities as between
Labor and Labor and between Labor and
the services.
In addition to the matter of overtime,
another obvious anomaly that hinges on
man-power has arisen. In seeking to deal
with the man-power problem the Gov-
ernment has created additional ones.
It has a superfluity of “administrative
staff,” which issues a superfluity of “regu-
lations,” and between the two a whirl-
pool of futility is set up that wastes more
and more time, money and man-power.
The bigger it grows the more it is in-
clined to grow. Far too great a propor-
tion of the war-time civil service merely
exists to take in the washing of other
parts of the service. Sections of it
do little more than look after the more
warped and cracked shapes of Wardism
and Dedmanism. The Customs Depart-
ment is a law unto itself, and through
its Division of Import Procurement it has
called on industry for a toeing of the
line in a multitude of petty formalities
that often amount to a major waste of
active industries’ time in the aggregate.
The surplus of civil servants doing no-
thing more than clerical or administra-
tive work is unevenly distributed. There
are departments or sections that are over-
worked without a doubt, but there are
some big nests on the Government pay-
roll that are novelties of the “brain trust”
rather than essential services. And there
are far too many boards.
Politics now threaten to enter even
more obtrusively into Government
finance, which is already white-anted to
the core with politics. Even appoint-
ments to the Commonwealth Bank Board
have been highly political. The latest
dish Australia has been given to con-
template before digestion is one of “social
security” as a bait to the acceptance
of a wider range of war-time taxes among
those millions who are escaping adequate
taxation because of their voting power,
Canberra is suggesting a £25-million pen-
sion and insurance scheme, to be put into
effect forthwith, without contributions
by the beneficiaries except by way of
taxation. Extra taxation which the Gov-
ernment is to ask for shortly will, it is
hinted, embrace the cost of this “secu-
rity” scheme. The political cunning in
the thing is seen when it is realised that
there will be few, if any, calls on the
fund during its first few years, and its
resources will be mainly invested in war
loans, like the war-damage insurance
funds. But there is a great danger that
Australia is going to have foisted on it
a half-baked, improperly-financed pen-
sion scheme at the most distressing period
of the country’s history simply because
the Government is too cold-footed to,
come out and ask the voting—and earn-
ing—multitude for urgently-needed war
taxation without using the smokescreen.
and camouflage of “social security.”
Electrolytic Zinc has a story to tell
about aluminium. Being one of the four
shareholders in Australian Aluminium,
which rolls and extrudes imported ingots
near Sydney, the co. before the war in-
tended to erect a smeltery to produce the
metal from local or imported bauxite.
When war came Electro. Zinc decided it
was a Government job, and the Alu-
minium co, offered to erect and manage
a smeltery on Government account in the
vicinity of Risdon (Tas.). Starting at 2000
tons a year, it could have been stepped up
ultimately to 5000 tons. A plant to pro-
duce refined alumina was to be put up
near by or at Port Kembla. Both jobs
were scheduled for completion in 18
months. A condition to this offer was
that in the event of the Government de-
siring to dispose of the undertakings, the
managing co. was to have first refusal.
The offer, made in Dec., 1940, was not
accepted by the Government, and Aus-
tralia thus has no aluminium industry
worth the name. The story closes with
this assurance to E.Z. shareholders:
“There is no doubt that after the war the
light, strong alloys of aluminium and
magnesium, together with other metallic
elements, are destined to assume an ever-
increasing importance in the manufactur-
ing engineering industries. So, too, are
the special alloys of which highly-refined
zinc is the base. Shareholders can rest
assured that Electrolytic Zinc, which pos-
sesses many advantages, intends to play
its part in these fields.”
* * * *
Complete figures for the £lOO million
austerity loan show subscriptions to have
been £104,635,185, of which £21,961,865
represented conversion (98 p.c.) and
£82,673,320 was cash received. N. S.
Wales cash applications totalled 184,849,
Victoria 152,754, Queensland 40,153,
South Australia 39,223, Westralia 23,964,
Tasmania 11,014. Of a total of 451,957
applications, the amounts applied for
have been tabulated as under;
Amount. Subscribers. Aggregate.
£lO 216,533 .. £2,165,330
£2O 54,903 .. 1,098,060
£3O to £5O .. .. 68,098 .. 2,985,750
£6O to £lOO.. .. 52,130 .. 5,036,590
£llO to £200.. .. 20,205 .. 3,680,790
£2lO to £500.. .. 21,453 .. 8,082,030
Over £5OO ~ .. 18,635 .. 59,624,770
Totals .. .. 451,957 £82,673,320
Response from the 2,780,000 persons
earning £8 a week and under was again
particularly poor. Excluding the 60,293
subscribers for more than £lOO, the
average subscription from 391,664 people
was about £3O each. If that figure had
been averaged all through the £B-a-week-
and-under class the subscriptions of £lOO
and under would have aggregated
£83,000,000 instead of £11,285,000. The
next call on the public for loan money
will be made in March.


As an aid to
DAILY REGULARITY
and good health
try
Dr. Morse’s Indian Root Pills for
Constipation, Indigestion, Biliousness,
Sluggish Liver, and similar little ills
of life.
D« MORSE’S n _
Indian Root
Qfor t/leaver PILLS
Buy War Savings Certificates,
The
MARS 6-in. LATHE
will
INCREASE PRODUCTION EFFICIENCY
BY SAVING YOUR BIGGER LATHE
FOR THE BIGGER WORK <
The Mars Six-inch Lathe (standard 4ft. Sin. bed), being
dynamically Balanced (an exclusive feature), will run
at from 2000 to 3000 r.p.m. with sustained accuracy
and freedom from vibration. Its sturdiness eliminates
"chatter."
Anii-iriction bearings oi the main headsfock spindle are provided
with a 4-hour period lubrication. Substantial four-way tod box.
The "Mars" is a delight to handle as all controls fall beautifully to
hand. Gear teeth are generated to ensure sweet running.
Possessing Sturdiness, Precision, and High Production qualities, the
"Mars" has all features required in any shop.
Dynamically Balanced ...
Highest Speeds Without Vibration
Send for Full Details and Illustrated Folder to Sole Selling Agents,
all States—
WILLIAM ADAMS & CO. LTD.
SYDNEY, MELBOURNE. BRISBANE. ADELAIDE, PERTH.
ALSO MADE WITH 6ft. Sin
LONG UNIVERSAL BED.
I
■
Wma ■■■■■
IX/IHRC MACHINE TOOL
** U Manufactg. Go. Pty. Ltd.
(Formerly Rapson 6 Dutton Pty. Ltd.)
BRIDGE STREET, VALLEY, BRISBANE
I HI
One of the chief dangers of inflation
is the effect on industry that rising pro
duction costs bring about. The loss of
capital, savings and fixed-income value
that also results from inflation is an inci-
dental compared with the loss of balance
between costs and prices that ends in the
shutting-down of industry and the throw-
ing of thousands of able men on the un-
employed heap. It is not possible to
clean up a mess caused by inflation with-
out having to cut across the interests of
thousands of other people also. Interest-
reduction, debt-reduction and exchange
devaluation are all “fighting” matters, as
often the sufferer has not participated in
the “benefit” of the inflation while it
lasted, and strongly resents “being the
mug.” Australia’s costs of production
have increased by about 20 p.c. since
war began, and already difficulties have
presented themselves so far as the suc-
cessful production of wool and butter
is concerned. Both these things have
had a readjustment in price, wool with
the sanction of the British Government.
But at present conditions are compara-
tively easy when set alongside what is
likely to follow the finish of the war.
Just now the freedom of the individual
and freedom of world trade are rigidly
restricted in the state of total war that
exists on every continent, and it is pos-
sible for Governments exercising extra-
ordinary powers to make decisions the
good or ill of which is for the time being
covered up in the enormous amount of
revenue, rights and production which
they have removed from the reach of the
citizen by virtue of war-time powers.
After the war we can expect a demand
among the democracies for a restoration
of lost rights and privileges, with free-
dom of trade and exchanges, and in that
period we can expect the disease of in-
flation to show itself most severely where
it has ravaged most.
* * * *
Reverse lend-lease, according to the
Washington correspondent of a New
York paper, will put Australia and
Maoriland on pretty even terms with the
U.S.A. by the end of the war. The
Dominions are provisioning the Ameri-
can forces in the South Pacific area,
according to the correspondent. Mr.
Curtin has already made a general an-
nouncement on reverse lend-lease, and
equipment and clothing figured in it as
well as food.
* * * *
The cost of living in Australia rose by
an average of 1.4 p.c. during the De-
cember quarter of 1942. The basic wage
has been lifted by a shilling a week in
Sydney, Melbourne and Perth. Hobart’s
rate has gone up 25., while Brisbane and
Adelaide stay as they were. When war
began the Commonwealth basic wage
averaged 795. Two years afterwards it
had mounted to 86s. In the last 15
months it has mounted a further 10s.,
now standing at 965. The rise of 7s. in
two years and the subsequent lift of
10s. in 15 months indicates the
momentum that inflation has taken on
since Japan’s attack and Labor’s adminis-
tration practically coincided, even though
the latest rise in living costs is rather
below previous increases. The added
strain which the war with Japan has im-
posed on this country has not been will-
ingly shouldered by Labor, and the result
has been inflation, the full extent of
which is not yet nearly evident.
* * * *
Mr. Dedman, in an address read on
his behalf in Melbourne, said that it
would be wrong to assume that the de-
pressions which followed the last war
must inevitably follow the present war.
Into his argument he dragged such
phrases as “some new factors are pro-
foundly significant,” “multitudes are
more internationally minded,” “techno-
logical progress has made possible im-
proved standards for many,” and “it is
not too soon to plan for reconstruction.”
Early in the present war The Bulletin
recommended a “pay-as-you-go” finan-
cial policy for Australia during this
period of great expenditure. It has
been a policy utterly and abjectly
neglected by Mr. Dedman’s Government.
Yet had it alone been followed it would
have done far more for the post-war
economic security of Australia and Aus-
tralians than a multitude of separate
“plans” such as are proposed by the
Federal Government, and which will be
carried out just as badly as the war-
finance programme has been carried out.
If Labor is allowed to put into effect its
ideas on post-war “reconstruction” it is
highly probable that we shall have not
only the effects of war to recover from
but the effects of post-war “planning” as
well.
* * * *
The Ministry of Munitions paid out
£710,708 in 1940, £8.5 million in 1941
and £25 million in 1942. In 1941 £1.9
million was spent on factories and £6.1
million last year. Some munitions pro-
duction is now said to be in excess of
requirements. Although the main task —
production —has been achieved in a
majority of cases, the Ministry hasn’t
been noted for economical management.
* * * *
The Australian Customs has been at
it again, this time holding up 12 cinema
units intended for forward battle stations.
The units were bought by the Anzac
Committee in New York for the enter-
tainment of the troops. War or no war,
there is only one thing that matters to
the Customs, and that is the Customs.
To itself it is the be-all and end-all
of everything, and no Government de-
partment has ever been noted for so much
red-tape, circumlocution, high-handed and
arbitrary decisions concerning the busi-
ness affairs of civilians, internal wariness
among officers and the passing of re-
sponsibility from one to another. If
there is one thing which has discouraged
the idea of one Parliament for Australia
among otherwise favorably-disposed Aus-
tralians it has been experience with the
Customs. Trips have to be made from
State capitals to Canberra time and again
in order to get satisfaction in some matter
that should have been settled promptly
at the Customs House. Import licensing
has added to the ramifications and awful
omnipotence of the Customs ; the Divi-
sion of Import Procurement dazzles in-
dustry with science, regulations, forms
and red-tape every day, and it has end-
less staff to keep occupied. Things like
the Customs Department represent a real
problem in the Australian economy.
* * * *
Federal Machinery Co., Arncliffe,
N.S.W., in 1940 paid £13,000 for the net
assets of Geo. E. Fortescue and Sons,
engineers, and £7500 for the manufac-
turing and marketing rights of the Speed-
way steriliser for dairy farms and the
W.N. plough. Capital is £20,000 in 6000
6 p.c. prefs. and 14,000 ords. The value
of the Speedway rights hasn’t been up
to expectations; for one thing, under
war-time conditions compulsory sterilisa-
tion has not been enforced in Queensland,
as was expected, and sale of these rights
at a loss is on the cards. The old busi-
ness specialised in agricultural machinery,
generally branded IXL, but the new man-
agement has had its hands full. In the
first four months there was a loss of
£lBOl, and total intangibles at June 30,
1941, were £944l—equal to 13s. sd. in
the £ of ord. capital. Early in 1942 the
co. became a protected undertaking, and,
helped by reorganisation of activities, a
profit of £2898 was shown during the
year to June 30 last, equal to 14.5 p.c.
on capital, subject to taxation. A pref.
div. of £4BO was paid, and the balance
kept in hand. After adding some estab-
lishment expenses and deducting £3071
difference between cost and the old book
value of Fortescue’s assets, intangibles
were reduced to £5671 last balance day,
less £616 in p. and 1. In respect of the
subsequent half-year to Dec. 31 the board
has declared an all-round 6 p.c. div. ;
“turnover, represented mainly by defence
work, has substantially increased.” Apart
from the intangibles the main item de-
serving attention before ord. divs. is the
outside debt (£10,617 at June 30); Glad-
stone’s Pty., which underwrote the float,
gave help here at the more difficult stage
of operations.
* * * *
Income-earners with up to £8 a week
are now estimated at 2,780,000, getting a
total of £590 million a year. In the
majority of cases they are protected by
arbitration awards against cost-of-living
increases, which include much of the in-
direct taxation lifts that have come with
the war, and they pay light direct taxa-
tion. In Australia no direct tax is paid
by a person earning £l5O a year, while
in Britain, including post-war credits, the
tax is £lB, and in Maoriland £l9. It is a
fact that earnings in the under-£B-a-week
class have swollen greatly because of war-
time industrial activity, and that many
people have been taken to a class several
pounds above it for the .same reason.
Such people are obviously profiting from
the war when, after deducting whatever
tax they pay, they still have an income
greater than pre-war. On the higher in-
comes Australian taxes are steeper than
in Great Britain, especially in the case of
incomes above £2OOO a year. Australia’s
taxation scale panders to the selfishness
of the non-combatant wage-earning mul-
titude, and is part and parcel of gross
political mismanagement of the country
for party ends.
Of incomes up to £4OO a year, it is
calculated that there are 450,000 people
getting under £lOO, 400,000 £lOO-£l5O,
450,000 £l5O-£2OO and 1,480,000 £2OO-
- The total of £590 million repre-
sented by these income classes represents
about 70 p.c. of all personal incomes
earned in the Commonwealth.


THE SERVICE MAN
At Sanananda and Beyond.
“Ek Dum”: On Tuesday, Jan. 19,
General MacArthur’s H.Q. issued a
special communique:
In continuation of the aggressive action
which started on Sunday, Sanananda village
and Point were captured yesterday and for-
ward elements have reached Giruwa, east of
Sanananda. On the coast the enemy is re-
stricted to a small pocket 500 yards n.-w.
of the motor road terminal, and the area
between Giruwa and Tarakena [a village
which American troops were attacking.].
Inland, two enemy pockets are under attack.
This was virtually the end of the long,
weary business which cost Australia
and the United States many gallant
lives and the enemy a full division,
apart from men lost at sea and a sore
toll of ships and ’planes. The main suc-
cess was quickly followed by the occu-
pation of Cape Killerton and Wye Point
to the west, leaving only the Giruwa-
Tarakena and the two other pockets
hanging out.
Cape Killerton is on a swamp island
near the coast, and the approaches to it
are terrible. The Americans made their
attack on it from the east —Tarakena—
side, while the A.I.F. was at the head of
Soputa road nearer Sanananda. The pro-
cess of cleaning-up here was a repetition
of the weary and blood-drenched process
which has been gone through again and
again—artillery blast, long wade or crawl
under fire, deadly cleaning out with
grenade and tommy-gun, and possibly a
little of the bayonet, as each m.-g. post
and cement-roofed dugout is purified of
its tenacious defenders.
Those in the Giruwa post were full of
fight. They defiantly replaced flags
which the A.I.F. shot down over their
heads and, with nowhere to escape to,
they showed determination to die to the
last man in their 700-yard-long network
of trenches and forts. Large numbers
were killed, and one day 27 prisoners
were taken.
One of the remaining pockets, about
the same size, lay west of Sanananda vil-
lage and the two others were inland along
the Soputa trail, one half a mile from
the village, the other two miles along
the track.
On Jan. 22 General MacArthur’s H.Q.
reported that Allied forces were rapidly
destroying enemy resistance; in one
pocket 150 were killed and enemy casual-
ties were otherwise heavy. Progress in
the advance was being slowed up by the
rain—that day 10 inches fell.
On Jan. 23 it was recorded that all
organised enemy resistance had been
overcome. Mopping up was in progress.
Over 700 enemy dead had been counted,
apart from those previously mentioned,
and the great quantities of enemy stores
captured included field guns, trucks and
ammunition.
The postscript was written next day:
“Liquidation has been completed, with
heavy casualties to the enemy.” The
greatest batch of prisoners in the New
Guinea war—ll7 —had been taken.
General MacArthur closed with the
words: “Ground fighting in Papua has
ceased.”
It was welcome news for the tired
A.I.F. and Americans, a temporary relief
from a long burden of anxiety for the
sorely-tried relatives of those who have
fought the gallant advance.
General MacArthur said that the
Papuan campaign had been experimental,
its results pointing the way to the final
defeat of the Japanese.
“The Horii army,” he proceeded, “has
been annihilated. The outstanding lesson
of this campaign was the importance of
air superiority and co-operation with ihe
land forces.”
For months air transport with con-
stant fighter coverage moved complete
infantry regiments and artillery battalions
across the mountains in Papua. It trans-
ported field hospitals and other base hos-
pitals to the front. And for hundreds
of miles around bombers provided recon-
naissance, protected the coast from enemy
ships and blasted a way for the infantry.
Air power linked with ground strategy
(the General declared) would eliminate
many an island-to-island advance in the
Pacific, and would permit swift, fearsome
offensive strokes. With “proper naval
support,” air, land and sea co-operation
indicated the way to victory.
With the release of aircraft from the
Buna area, bombing of enemy bases
along the whole North Australian hori-
zon has been intensified. There is no
single Japanese base of importance from
Timor eastward which has been immune
for long from attack, and great damage
was done at main bases.
Up to Jan 25 Madang had been raided
11 times and Finschhafen nine times in
15 days, Lae 11 times in 11 days, Sala-
maua and the coast to Gona 11 times in
12 days and Rabaul five times in seven
days.
On Jan. 18 it was reported that a Jap
ship of 8000 tons which was sighted by a
tenacious Texan in a Liberator about 100
miles off Rabaul was dogged all night
and in eight minutes sent, a mass of
exploding flames, to the bottom next day.
No survivors were seen, though the
Liberator flew low over the water.
The main air operations as reported
by H.Q. communiques:
Jan. 19: Heavy bombers made an intense
attack on Rabaul Harbor, but searchlight
activity rendered observation of results difficult.
Madang and Finschhafen were bombed. Two
large formations of medium bombers and
long-range fighters attacked dumps and instal-
lations at Lae. Supply piles were raked by
m.-gs. and cannon. Two buildings hit by bombs
exploded and went up in flames and an enemy
lighter was destroyed on the ground. Attack
planes co-operated with ground forces (which
killed 40 of the enemy) by bombing the
Komiatum trail and the region of Mubo out-
side Salamaua.
Jan , 20: Long-range fighters strafed buildings
along the road between Beaco and Baucau
(Timor). Medium bombers demolished
numerous buildings in Tual (Kai Islands). At
Lae, supply dumps were fired and long-range
fighters made a sweep of the Salamaua coast.
Jan. 21: Dobo jetty (Arus) was strafed,
and one of three float ’planes which attempted
interception was probably destroyed. A heavy
Allied unit shot down an enemy machine
over Ambon. On Timor, ports near Lautem
were bombed and an intercepting fighter near
Fuiloro damaged. Three barges were forced
ashore on the Willaumez peninsula (n. New
Guinea). Gasmata, Madang, Finschhafen, Lae
and Kurenada (Kumusi River) were bombed
and a gun position destroyed at Cape
Gloucester.
Jan. 22: Heavy bombers hit a cruiser (last
seen listing) and a 5000-ton merchant ship in
Ambon. At least two medium merchant ships
were seriously damaged at Rabaul. Aero-
dromes were attacked at Rabaul, Gasmata and
Lae. At Wewak, four Allied heavy bombers
shot down 12 and damaged six of 25 intercepting
fighters.
Jan. 23: Bombers destroyed four ships of
approximately 24,000 tons in Rabaul Harbor.
A 4000-ton cargo ship, directly hit, sank in
four minutes; an 8000-ton transport exploded;
a 4000-ton vessel and a lighter sank in 12
minutes, while an 8000-ton vessel was left burn-
ing and exploding piecemeal. All Allied
’planes returned safe. Salamaua and Lae
were bombed; also boats and barges along the
New Guinea coast.
Jan. 24: A heavy raid on Rabaul started
large fires and did extensive damage in the
harbor and aerodrome area but results could
not be effectively observed because of search-
light glare. A 12,000-ton transport in the
harbor was damaged during the day by a direct
hit and five near-misses. A ship of 8000 tons,
north of Rabaul, was hit and brought to a
standstill. Twelve enemy fighters intercepted
the bomber which damaged the two ships;
in a 65-minute fight five were destroyed and
two damaged. The bomber returned safe.
At Wewak, another reconnaissance machine
shot down three “O” fighters and probably de-
stroyed two others in a battle. It
reached its base. From Salamaua to the Waria
River was covered by a strafing sweep. Madang
and Finschhafen were bombed. At Koepang
and Fuiloro (Timor) various objectives were
attacked.
The enemy during the week made light
raids on Merauke (Dutch New Guinea)
and Milne Bay. At Darwin two bombers
dropped their eggs into a swamp one
day and into the bush on another. Mores-
by’s 100th raid was a failure.
“Came the Relief”
In the Solomons a U.S. Army force
under Major-General Alexander Patch
has relieved the Marines. Mopping-up
and the air war continue. From Jan. 13
to Jan. 17 1032 Japs were killed on
Guadalcanal. Two cargo ships and two
destroyers were bombed in the Short-
lands late last week. During the opera-
tions eight enemy ’planes were shot
down ; a U.S. fighter was lost and several
Fortresses were damaged. The enemy
made small raids on the New Hebrides.
Tripoli Falls.
“Ek Dum”: On the morning of Janu-
ary 22, when the tanks of the Eighth
Army rumbled over the old 1911 battle-
fields of Messri and Henni into Tripoli,
it was 78 days since the British Armored
Corps had broken through Rommel’s
centre at El Alamein after the 9th A.I.F.
Division had done its magnificent job.
The pursuit of the Axis armies had
begun exactly on the 22nd anniversary
of the Italian annexation of Libya.
Twelve Axis divisions, including some of
the best German armor under the best
German exponents of panzer fighting,
were in full retreat, with the Maori-
landers, Scots and North of Englanders,
S. Africans and Hussars in full cry be-
hind.
In the intervening 78 days the Eighth
Army had to its credit —in which the
R.N. and the R.A.F and its Imperial
attached air squadrons shared —the
greatest feat of its kind in history. Never
has an army of anything like its size
travelled so far or so fast. It compassed
a distance almost equal to that from
Calais to Athens, averaging miles a
day over 1400 miles—3o miles a day
while in actual movement.
The enemy, with dumps along the
route, had his supplies ready made. He
had no minefields in the rear. He had
water laid on. He picked up his fuel as
he went.
The Eighth Army had to carry its
petrol, oil and water. In one week it
received 8,000,000 gallons (about 3000
tons) of petrol and over 8000 tons of
ammunition, apart from food, repair
necessities and other accessories. At El
Alamein field guns alone fired 1000 tons
of shells in an hour.
Before Tobruk the situation was bad
enough for water. After El Agheila
there was no water at all until the oasis
country was reached within 200 miles of
Tripoli. The Army had to have 5000
tons a day. It was piped 500 miles from
the Nile, then carried the rest of the way
in four-gallon drums.
The R.N., as always, did its part. As
harbors were made usable there were
the gallant grey ships bringing forward
stores. And the R.A.F’s. effort was not
measured merely by the fact that the
enemy lost 507 aircraft from Oct. 1 to
Jan. 22 against British loss of 335 ;
the destruction wrought on enemy sup-
plies and ports was stupendous. The
campaigns of Africa have cost the Axis
6000 machines, apart from wastage.
Italy has lost not merely its African Em-
pire, but much of the flower of its army.
Of 300,000 Italians who went to Libya,
few have returned, and those few not
whole men. And Germany has been
given a glimpse of something which
should teach the High Command that
it has no monopoly of a flair for organis-
ing on a giant scale.
The Eighth Army has completed con-
trol of (he southern half of the eastern
Mediterranean ; has made it possible to
attack Axis-held positions in Tunisia
from the air on three sides instead of
two.
But there is so much consolidation to
be done along the Libyan coast that it
will make an enormous call on transport.
Harbors —Tobruk, Benghazi, Tripoli it-
self —must be reconditioned and cleared
as far as possible of wreckage. Build-
ings must be repaired. Large-scale air-
fields and dumps must be laid down.
There is not a bit of enemy-held terri-
tory along the Mediterranean which is
not within comfortable reach of the
“heavies.” Even Bucharest and Buda-
pest (in both of which the effect of
40001 b. bombs should be salutary) are
nearly as handy for Lancasters and Stir-
lings as are Genoa and Turin from British
airfields. And preparations will have to
be worthy of future effort.
Tripoli itself will call especially for
the laying-down of intensive air defence
and for a thorough reorganisation so that
it can be of full value.
The Last Phase
The Eighth Army covered 200 miles
in its last eight days on the road, after
General Montgomery had announced
that “nothing will stop us now.” After
their last brief struggle against outflank-
ing Rommel’s weary legions showed no
disposition to fight.
In Tripoli itself much was destroyed,
but not all. Columns of smoke rose
from dumps and storehouses, some
caused by suicidal wreckage, much by
artillery bombardment from the sur-
rounding hills and by bombers.
Even before the Union Jack was raised
over the Castle, Hussars and tank units
were driving still further westward, pre-
ceded, as usual, by an endless stream
of sky-strafers to tear up and try to cut
off the last of the enemy’s columns bound
along the Zuara road for Bu Kamech
and the border, 109 miles away, and
Gabes, still another hundred miles on
in Tunisia. There cannot be so much to
tear. And there was no intermediate
bolt hole. The French are to the south.
Zuara was bombarded and blockaded by
the R.N.
The tail-end of the Axis columns
beyond Tripoli at times turned on its
pursuers and lashed out fiercely, but not
with weight.
If Rommel had been strong enough to
make even a pass at defending Tripoli
he would have done so, partly because it
was important to future campaigning and
to Italian morale to defend it, and partly
because a breathing space might have
given him a chance of reinforcement or
rescue.
It is for refuge not for offence that
he is driving into southern Tunisia. What
the Axis position in that part of the
world is nobody seems to know clearly.
Road and rail communications and ports
seem to be in enemy hands.
However, it is now only a matter of
time before the African hash of Hitler
is settled, as that of Mussolini has been.
The strength of the Bizerta-Tunis de-
fences is known. That of the Mareth
Line, which guards the Libyan border, is
not. Whether it was fully demilitarised
is still a secret. The French built it with
the Maginot Line in mind.
It was very strong, but it has the same
deadly fault as the Maginot—it can be
outflanked ; also it has attackers on both
sides, a factor which could not have been
contemplated by its builders. And, in
any case, the effects of Axis pockets in
Africa are now purely local.
The African campaign now has become
only a phase in greater operations. The
Mediterranean underside of the Axis ter-
ritories, like the belly of a dragon or any
other ferocious animal, is the weaker
side. Routes east and west and south are
now clear across Africa, with the great
Eritrean supply base in being, and other
bases building in the west. The sea for
nearly the whole length of the North
African coast is under land-based air
protection. The Axis will have to re-
orient its plans to meet a thrust from
the south.
Lord Cranborne, on January 20:
The Axis maintenance lines for North
Africa are so exposed as to constitute a
running sore. We have sunk one of every
three ships running the gauntlet of the pas-
sage from Italy. What we have achieved
has brought a measure of relief to the
Russians. It is only the beginning of what
we hope to do. It would be misleading and
dangerous, however, to suggest that the
war is nearly over. We need every ounce
of our strength. The scale of U-boat
attacks is increasing, and the peak probably
has not yet been reached, though there is
no ground for pessimism, because the
Allies are developing counter-measures to
the utmost possible extent.
The Sea War’s Importance
The most important phase of the Medi-
terranean campaign is not being fought
in that sea at all. It is being fought in
the approaches to Africa, where the
enemy is obviously making a desperate
effort to stop the vast supplies needed
by the Allies reaching their destination.
Whether the Germans succeed in this is
far more important than what is happen-
ing where a few divisions of Axis troops
are set down in Tunisia or a section of
the Eighth Army is pursuing the tired
remnant of Rommel’s men.
The consolidation of sea routes is the
most vital task for the Allies, and it
looks as if they have the job well in hand.
Two Winter Campaigns.
“Ek Dum”: When Russia’s main
southern offensive —it began on Novem-
ber 19 —was in its early stages, the prob-
lems of the enemy were here summed up
(B. 2/12/ *42). It was said that on the
south the Germans’ natural defence line
would be somewhere along the top of the
Ergennis, or a bit further north along
the southern arm of the Don bend —“that
is, if they intend to keep a connected
winter defence line in that region, which
is doubtful.” Concerning the cover of
direct communications with Stalingrad
it was written:
At the end of last winter the enemy had
his pick of areas in which to build winter
positions, well served with roads and with
perpendicular railways. All the features
desirable for establishing excellent defence
positions over a wide front are lacking
around the Don bend. The nearest natural
line is 180 miles to the west, along the
Voronezh-Kamensk-Rostov railway.
This line, however, is not a good one.
It mostly runs through low country in
the bog region (something like Queens-
land black soil), with the Donetz imme-
diately behind it. The towns on it, about
as large as Australian country towns,
can be counted on the fingers of one
hand. A few miles to the west there
are a dozen large cities with industrial
plants, coal, established fortifications and
high ground and less boggy soil —Rostov
(population, 500,000), Voroshilovgrad
(213.000) Stalino (462,000), Makeevka
(240.000) Shakhty (160,000), Taganrog
(188.000) Artemovsk (55,000), Novo-
cherkassk (81,000), Slavyansk (75,000),
Gorlovka (108,000) and some more. All
these are packed into an area about 100
miles square. It is an interesting side-
light on our knowledge of the Russian
war that nobody outside the two com-
batants appears to know how many of
these cities actually were in German
hands through last winter.
In December the Russians quickly
reached the Rostov-Voronezh line, but
the Germans clung to parts of it. At
the turn of the season to the month of
greatest snow, the Russians reported the
capture of Millerovo and Kamensk.
Kamensk is on the western side of the
Don, but still in the boggy country.
A new offensive in the north from
Voronezh in a few days drove well be-
hind the railway to within about 70 miles
of the Kharkov-Kursk-Orel-Bryansk-
Gzhatsk-Rshev-Staraya Russa-Novgorod
line of hedgehog defences. This is the
best line in Russia for winter defence.


CD
am
The Germans have the advantage of the
work done on it last year. If they were
able to retire to it without much loss, the
retirement, from their viewpoint, would
have been worth while. They, however,
left “large forces” on a tongue of high
land which intrudes into the lower levels
on the west bank of the Don, s.-w. of
Voronezh. The Russians say these troops
are trapped and are being exterminated.
By January 20 the last of the series
of offensives in the Don bend area was
reported to have reached Valuiki, bring-
ing a spearhead within 70-odd miles of
the Kursk-Kharkov line. A communique
announced that the number of prisoners
taken was 52,000 —27,500 Hungarians,
22.000 Italians and 2500 Germans. Three
days later the number of prisoners was
64.000 ; seventeen divisions, it was stated,
had been knocked to pieces.
A remarkable feature of the whole of
the fighting from the Caucasus to the
Don, though not in the Stalingrad area,
has been the small number of Germans.
As in the same sectors last season, the
enemy’s screen troops were almost en-
tirely provided by the slave nations; in
the earlier phases the Germans manned
the hedgehogs, and handled communica-
tions and supplies. After mid-February,
when it was declared that the Axis
retirement had ended, the position in
1942 was reversed.
As for the Caucasus area, it was an-
nounced on Jan. 22 that Voroshilovsk
and Salysk had fallen. There swiftly
followed the fall of Armavir a very
important place.
Stalingrad
Berlin military spokesmen, when men-
tioning Stalingrad, at first tried hard to
produce the impression that it was not
completely isolated, though “cut off from
all important lines of communication.”
The task of the Germans in and about
the city, one spokesman said, was to pin
down big forces, “thus gaining time for
other operations,” not necessarily of an
offensive nature.
The German principle of defence is based
upon a conception of encircled troops co-
operating with others not encircled, apply-
ing strong resistance to enemy penetrations
and inflicting heavy losses. This tends to
balance strength and leaves the attackers
exhausted, and eventually enables a well-
trained army, reinforced with fresh troops,
to resume the offensive when the season
is suitable for offensive warfare.
This ingenious bit of specious pleading
may or may not have counteracted the
effect of a week-end Berlin admission that
the “heroic” Germans in Stalingrad had
not prevented the Russians from pushing
them back from high ground in the west-
ern sector. Later reports brought further
doleful admissions, together with a
despairing assertion that “Never in
history has a limited number of any
nation’s army been confronted with
such a concentration of tanks and
guns as are our men at Stalingrad.”
Previously the Russians had begun to
refer to the force in Stalingrad
by name —the Sixth Army. It is known
to have consisted of two infantry and
two motorised divisions and a tank divi-
sion. With auxiliaries, the estimate of
its strength as being (with artillery, trans-
port and supply) round the original
120.000 to 130,000 imputed to it in
November would be fairly accurate. It
is a veteran organisation which has
fought from France onward. If the Rus-
sians make an end of it, Hitler will have
suffered a resounding blow.
Here it may be recalled that in the
winter of 1941-42 Orel was “surrounded
and isolated from its bases.” It was de-
clared that vast casualties had been in-
flicted on the garrison—it was com-
manded by General Guderian —and a
white flag was sent in with a demand for
surrender. Orel held out, as also did
Staraya Russa, where the 16th German
Army was described as imprisoned in the
late stages of the winter. Divisions
which came to rescue Staraya Russa
were held to be “in grave danger.” After
the winter it turned out that the Staraya
Russa force consisted of a corps which
had had some communications open all
the time, and the enemy claimed that
the encircling force had itself been en-
circled and battered. But the Stalingrad
case looks very different.
Leningrad
A Moscow communique issued on
November 17 stated that “in a sector of
the Volkhov front, south-east of Lenin-
grad, we captured a populated place of
great strategic importance.” Said “Time”
(23 /11 / ’42):
German dispatches admit that the Rus-
sians have recaptured Schlusselburg, break-
ing the Axis ring round Leningrad after a
year of siege.
Between Leningrad and Schlusselburg
the Neva hangs down to the south like
a sagging bit of string. In the bight of
it are bottomless swamps scarcely nego-
tiable in summer for troops. In winter
they freeze hard.
If the populated place was really
Schlusselburg, the Russians could not
have taken all of it. On January 18 Mos-
cow announced that, “after breaching
defences nine miles through and crossing
the Neva, our forces in seven days of
severe fighting overcame particularly stiff
enemy resistance and took the town of
Schlusselburg. Thus after the first battles
our troops from the Volkhov and Lenin-
grad joined hands and raised the siege
of Leningrad.” It was also stated that
the 227th, 96th, 61st and 170th German
Divisions, with two infantry regiments, a
motorised detachment and parts of the
first Infantry Division, had been routed.
The number of prisoners was 1261 ; of
killed 13,000.
General Govorov, commander of the
Leningrad front, and General Mterskov,
commander of the Volkhov front, led
the troops which broke through. Mar-
shal Zhukov and Marshal Voroshilov
co-ordinated the attacks. No mention
of Marshal Timoshenko.
Always optimistic, 8.8. C., on Feb. 18,
1942, had announced “the raising of the
siege of Leningrad” and had Russian re-
inforcements “pouring into the city.” It
explained that the break-through had been
achieved 11 days before by cavalry. On
March 2, 1942, newspapers agreed that
“rail communication between Moscow
and Leningrad” had been “re-estab-
lished,” and that eight trainloads of
munitions had reached the city as early
as Feb. 22.
On May 4 a Great Daily declared that
“Leningrad is completely besieged for
the first time since the autumn,” and its
correspondent in London wrote two days
later of the “amazing evacuation of
2,000,000 civilians from Leningrad dur-
ing the winter, leaving only war workers
and service men of fresh armies who
were said to be fully supplied to stand
up against any assault.” But, in respect
of these authorities, let it be a case of
“the past is nothing past.” Leningrad
has put up a grand fight. Access to the
city by the eastern line to Vologda and
a route across Lake Ladoga has been
obtained. Though the position last week
seemed to be that the Germans were still
round two-thirds of Leningrad, and that
the direct railway to Moscow was still
in their hands, there are high hopes that
the devoted citizens will soon be getting
all they need and that the defenders will
become available for other operations.
The Crucial Phase
The crucial phase of the campaign in
South Russia has now been reached. The
Russians have arrived before the main
lines of hedgehogs in which the Germans
evidently intend to winter. Another 20
miles of Russian advance, if it can be
made, will imperil Rostov. The question
in the Donetz is whether the big cities of
the Lugansk triangle can be taken ; in
the Kuban country it is whether the Rus-
sians can break through along the rail-
way which runs from Armavir to Tik-
horestsk. The prizes in this district, now
that Armavir has been grabbed, are
Krasnodar and Maikop.
The Axis continues to allege that the
retreat has been voluntary, and some
Allied reviewers are inclined to admit this
as regards the northern Caucasus. But it
is certain that Hitler did not give up the
Don willingly and that, having committed
himself to the declaration that to get
Stalingrad and the Volga immediately
above it were the great objects of his
1942 campaign, he wouldn’t have left an
isolated force in the Stalingrad area if he
could have helped it. It is certain that
his retreat must have cost him heavily in
men, more heavily in material, and that
if he is in a position to push back again
in spring he will have to pay again for
the privilege.
The Russians have done a splendid job.
They have overcome difficulties and en-
dured privations and losses with stoical
courage. The enemy claims that their
losses have been great, and a London
paper concedes that they have been
heavy. Under the conditions of a winter
campaign they could not possibly have
been light.
Russian estimates of Axis losses in the
two winter campaigns may be compared.
That of 1941-42 began on November 25 ;
by the middle of January Moscow re-
ported the destruction of 1,000,000 Axis
troops. In two months of the 1942-43
campaign (it began on November 19)
the report was that 500,000 Axis troops
had been killed and 200,000 captured on
the southern front, and that total casual-
ties were 1,500,000.
London v. Berlin.
“Ek D.”; With the German occupa-
tion of the parts of France closest to the
English coast, there has been a recru-
descence of raiding over Britain. It may
be mere reprisal for the raids on Berlin,
but the attacks on London seemed like
reconnaissances to determine the effect
of new aircraft, equipped with new
weapons, pitted against new defences.
The forces now in London were not
enough for effective reprisals—2o to 25
’planes at a time over two hours.
Possibly the Hun raiders were bent on
learning a few new wrinkles for Berlin
defences, which were reorganised a few
months ago by the erection of a.-a.
towers to deal with low-fliers. British
aircraft had screamed along the Linden
not much more than rooftop-high.
In the raid on Berlin on January 16
aircraft defence had not been effective.
On the following night there were clouds
of night fighters, and the a.-a. protection
along all the available bomber routes to
the Spree region was revealed as virtu-
ally defence in depth all the way to the
North Sea. The German High Command
claimed to have shot down 25 R.A.F.
machines, “nearly all four - engined
bombers,” over Berlin and North Ger-
many. This was not confirmed.
Air Secretary Archibald Sinclair told
the Commons on Jan. 20 that 1242 Brit-
ish bombers had been lost over Germany
to Dec. 31, 1941, and 1337 in 1942.
Enemy correspondents who were over
London described the a.-a. fire as
“/colossal,” but remarked particularly on
the “wire barrage.” They also mentioned
very feelingly the night fighters, which
have a long-enough range to catch the
foe long before he does any damage,
tackle him while his bomb racks are still
full of high explosives and incendiaries
and his flying speed is at its lowest, and
follow him back to the German border.
Beaufighters put up a record in the Jan.
17 raid. They shot down 15 bombers, of
which four fell to a single airman, Wing-
Commander Wright-Boycott.
In the early morning of Jan 24 Lon-
don had its 600th alert, when six or more
dive-bombers came down to 500 ft. in
daylight out of the clouds and machine-
gunned a thickly-populated residential
area. In one block 20 people were killed
and 20 sent to hospital. The same day
about 20 enemy fighters were turned back
from the south coast. When full reports
came in it was found that these opera-
tions were part of the most ambitious
daylight raid on England since the Battle
of Britain —but not a very ambitious one
at that.
About 130 machines were used, spread
over southern England. Of these 100
were fighters and the rest fighter-bombers.
Fourteen raiders were shot down.
The casualties make sad reading. The
fighter-bombers which had attacked Lon-
don had picked an L.C.C. school as one
of their marks, and 57 children were
killed. Fifty more had to be borne to
hospital. The barbarism took place as
the children were going gaily to luncheon.
On the night of Jan. 21 R.A.F. bombers
attacked the Ruhr and large fires after-
wards were seen. Four aircraft did not
return. Berlin asserted that the raid was
made at random, but admitted damage
to residential quarters, the killing of some
civilians ; six raiders, it alleged, were shot
down. Berlin never admits the chance
that the R.A.F. might hit a factory.
The R.A.F. obviously still holds the
initiative.
A Ship Torpedoed.
“Ek Dum”: Another small freighter
has been torpedoed on the east Austra-
lian coast.
The captain said that in the early
hours of the morning he was blasted from
his bunk by a terrific explosion. All
lights went out. He struggled to the
bridge. To port, he clearly made out a
large submarine, which was beginning to
submerge, and which made no attempt
to open fire.
The ship had already a sharp list to
starboard, and was going down by the
head. The port boat had been stove by
the explosion, so the only remaining
boat was lowered to starboard. Into it
climbed the crew of 30 and two pas-
sengers (Seventh Day Adventists), and
after a vain search had been made for
two poor stokers, F. Lewis (Glebe, Syd-
ney) and J. Corcoran (Westport, N.Z.),
the survivors set out for port in a rain
squall which soon obscured their view
of the ship, which was invisible at 5.30
a.m.
The crowded boat was cheered by the
knowledge that an SOS had been received
ashore. But no rescuers came until they
had sailed and rowed with relays of six
oars to within a few miles of a harbor
mouth, where they were met by two
brothers out fishing in a four-horsepower
motor-launch, 100-odd miles from their
starting point.
There was some sea running, but the
small launch took the boat in tow and
brought it six miles into harbor. Though
some of the survivors were wet and tired
and some suffering from shock, they
were as cheerful as seamen usually are
in adversity.
The attack on their ship had been
made without warning. The lookout’s
first knowledge of what was happening
was when he heard the explosion of the
torpedo.
This was the first sinking reported off
the Australian coast since September 5.
Activity in Burma continues to be con-
fined to patrols and busy air raiding by
R.A.F., R.A.A.F. and U.S. airmen. On
Jan. 20 U.S. bombers served a direct hit
on enemy H.Q. at Kaming. The Japanese
have established strong defence positions
west of Akyab.
* * * *
Calcutta was raided on the night of
Jan 20. F.-O. Charles Crombie, of War-
wick (Q.), aged 34, shot down two
Japanese bombers and possibly a third
—this although his ’plane had been hit
and his engine had begun to smoke be-
fore he began fighting. The Queens-
lander fought the second and third
bombers with his own cockpit on fire. He
came to earth on a parachute after his
petrol tank exploded and his machine
went out of control.
* * * *
On Jan. 21 the Admiralty reported that
13 Axis ships had been sunk in the Medi-
terranean in operations extending over
the previous Sunday, Monday and Tues-
day. Two other ships were sunk in the
North Sea. Berlin claimed to have sunk
two ships totalling 18,000 tons and dam-
aged seven (40,000 tons) in a convoy off
Algiers. No confirmation.
* * * ♦
A warning from Admiral Sir Percy
Noble;
Unless the submarine menace is overcome
Britain may lose her sea power. The
menace is so grievous that we must find
an answer within the next few months.
He said the answer lay in “escort ships,
more escort ships and still more escort
ships.” That is a matter in which Aus-
tralia can do more.
* * * *
Malta continues to get some of its
own back. ’Planes from the uncrack-
able island are reported to be bombing
Sicily “day and night.”
» * * *
Chile has broken off relations with the
Axis Powers. Of the Latin-American
countries only Argentina is now on speak-
ing terms with them.
* * * *
An Italian submarine being towed on
the surface by three tugs was sunk off
Tripoli on Jan. 19.
j* * * *
The Brazilian Air Force announces
that it sank five Axis submarines to the
end of November.
if He * *
The 14th naval V.C. of the war went
to Captain Robert St. Vincent Sher-
brooke, known to R.A.N. officers. In
H.M.S. Onslow (B. 13/1 /’43) Sherbrooke
led his destroyers against a much superior
German force which four times attacked
a British convoy. Even when seriously
wounded and having temporarily lost the
sight of one eye, he continued to press
home his attack. Only after further hits
on his own ship forced him out of action
did he relinquish control. The captain
belongs to a family rooted in Sherwood
Forest for 500 years, and won a D.S.O.
at Narvik in H.M.S. Cossack. His father,
now a retired battalion C.O. of the Sher-
wood Foresters, won a D.S.O. in the
last war.


Divorce Notice.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES— In Divorce.
No. 1090 of 1937.
TO PIERCE EDWARD ZOUCH FARRELL
—TAKE NOTICE that OLIVE MAY FAR-
RELL has filed a Notice of Motion to make
absolute the decree nisi in the above suit It
you wish to enter an objection you must do so
on or before the 26th February 1943 on which
day the application will be before the Court
and you may obtain a copy of the Notice ot
Motion from the offices of MESSRS. CAMP-
BELL CONDELL & PATON Solicitors Box
20 Orange.—CAMPBELL, CAMPBELL AND
CAMPBELL, Solicitors, 10 Martin Place, Syd-
ney; Town Agents for CAMPBELL, CON-
DELL & PATON, Solicitors for the Respon-
dent, Box 20, Orange.—(l.s.) C. K. BODY,
Registrar in Divorce.
SPORTING NOTIONS
(Conducted by "PILOT")
With conditions favorable there were
nearly 38,000 at Randwick on Saturday,
and the totalisator turnover for six
races was £81,553, against £37,879 for
eight on the corresponding day last year.
Wins by outsiders in Enderby and Fear-
less in the last two races made the after-
noon enjoyable for the books.
Gold Salute (D. Munro), who was
recently bought by his present owner,
D. H. Vidor, for 550gns.—he cost A.
Cooper £9OOO or £lO,OO0 —and is now
trained by W. Cridland, won the Chal-
lenge Stakes in decisive fashion. Trim-
mer led into the straight from Soho and
Yaralla. The last-named closed on Trim-
mer at the leger, but almost immediately
both were settled by Gold Salute, who
went on to win easily from John Halifax.
Panchio was a close third, after being
last at the half-mile, while Grand Pro-
dige and Young Valais, who were promi-
nent for half the journey, died away in
the straight, as did Soho. Bangster was
last home and, though he looks well, has
temporarily lost form.
Angel, favorite for the Adrian Knox
Stakes, gave her backers a poor run,
never getting near the front and eventu-
ally finishing second-last. Hesione tried
to win all the way, but, after leading into
the straight from Minnamurra, Hawklet
and Flying Shuttle (J. Thompson), was
quickly beaten when the last-named put
in her claim. Mastery headed the un-
placed lot, but was never a winning pos-
sibility. Flying Shuttle, with three wins
to her credit, is now well ahead of the
600gn#. she cost as a yearling. Bred by
P. Miller, she is by Double Remove from
Box On, by Magpie from Moscas, a
half-sister to Charleville, dam of Wind-
bag, Bicolor and Loquacious.
White Feather (J. Thompson), who had
not raced for nearly six months, finished
strongly to win the Encourage Handicap,
and his time was only a half-second
slower than Fearless recorded in the
January Handicap later in the afternoon.
Brinawa, Melody Charm and Kooka-
burra led at the turn, but the first-men-
tioned two could not see it out, and
Melody Charm beat Lance for third.
Well-backed Gryphon dropped out after
going half a mile, while it was only at
the finish that another fancied runner in
Frustrate showed up. A longer trip may
help him. Metaxas, who has yet to
prove as good as he looks, was among
the well-beaten division.
Books and backers remembered The
Beacon’s second to Haddon Hall at Rose-
hill a few weeks earlier, and the longest
price laid against him for the Valicare
Handicap was 3 to 1. Taking charge
from Flight in the first furlong, he was
not troubled to win from West Point, a
half-brother, by Melfort, to Hall Mark.
West Point is trained by B. Payten, who
so far this season has had aggravating
luck with his two-year-olds. Flight hung
on to beat Air Lord for third, but the
latter is improving. The Beacon, who
is in M. McCarten’s stable, and was
ridden by E. Bartle, was a 500gns.
yearling, and is by Brueghel from Lady
Canberra (Claro-Lady Buckwheat), who
threw other smart gallopers in Mohican
and Broadcaster.
Enderby (Wilson), who had run well
in his previous races, was behind Night-
beam and Stylish turning into the straight
in the January Handicap, but, disposing
of both soon after entering the straight,
he then did better than Baroda over the
last half-furlong. Veiled Threat, who
came from a long way back at the turn
to get third, was travelling faster than
either of the first two at the winning post.
Prince ran a fair race, but Dewar did not
act up to expectations.
The best finish of the afternoon was
that for the Paddington Handicap, in
which Rylstone made the early running.
Willie Green was in charge from Rath-
lin, Faerie Queene and Rylstone entering
the straight, and looked a winner com-
mencing the last furlong. Then Faerie
Queene, Ron Rico and Fearless joined
in, the last-named winning by a head
from Willie Green. Faerie Queene and
Ron Rico were nearly level a similar
distance away, and it was only in the last
couple of strides that the latter missed
a place. Eureka and Angus shaped fairly,
and the former may shortly have a win-
ning turn. F. Hickey rode Fearless.
* * * *
Elimination of old horses has been
suggested as one solution for unwieldy
entries, but the veterans continue to show
the younger brigade “how” in Mel-
bourne distance races. Following the
success of 10-y ear-old Prairiedale at
Mentone, Hathersage, rising nine, de-
feated Inspector Scott and Rippling Avon
in the Cumberland Handicap at Moonee
Valley on Saturday. He disputed the
lead from the five furlongs, and battled
on gamely to record his first win for 24
years. His form was an improvement
on his sixth at Mentone a week earlier,
when also well backed by the stable, but,
according to his trainer, the inadvertent
use of spurs contributed to his defeat on
that occasion. Hathersage dislikes spurs,
and none were used on Saturday.
Phoines, runner-up in the Newmarket
of 1941 and the Oakleigh Plate of 1942,
might be at his best again for important
engagements next autumn. Backed from
6 to 1 to favoritism at 7 to 2 for the
Coburg Welter on Saturday, he dashed
to the front coming to the turn and won
well from Legality and Burberry. The
finish may have been closer, however,
had Legality not hung in twice, necessi-
tating checks, in the last 100 yards. Bur-
berry, racing for the first time since Sep-
tember, and starting at 20 to 1, did well
enough to indicate that he might be a
danger in important autumn sprints.
Stewards accepted explanations after an
inquiry into Burberry’s running.
A. Breasley resumed riding on Satur-
day after suspension for two months, but
was suspended for a further three months
after his mount, Director, had been
beaten by Agrosan in the second Dunal-
ister Handicap. Stewards reported that
he caused serious interference to Jack
Again, who, in turn, interfered with Fox-
how. Breasley is one of Melbourne's
best riders, but has been particularly un-
lucky in respect of suspensions. Unless
the appeal lodged by him is upheld, he
will miss the autumn carnival. He is the
second rider to be suspended since the
V.R.C. committee instructed its stewards
to take firmer action in an endeavor to
check interference in races.
Tony Masin (Actor-Grandchild) easily
justified his favoritism for the Seafield
Handicap. He won decisively from
Crown Seal and Approve, and more will
be heard of him. Refractive (Portofino-
Cykanne) combined brilliance with
stamina to defeat Helianthe and Royal
Enfield in the Glenbervie Handicap, for
three-year-olds. Cornfield, hot favorite,
looked like winning at the turn, but died
on her run. She just missed a place, but
H. Badger was fined £5 for not riding her
out. Zalmon, backed from twenties down
to tens, dashed to the front entering the
straight, and easily defeated Much To
Say and Peter in the first Dunalister
Handicap. By David, Zalmon is bred
to stay, and might do well over a distance
later. R. Sweetnam, trainer of Jack, took
off 121 b. to ride that gelding at 9st. 61b.
in the Banyule Hurdle. Jack started
favorite at 9 to 4, and won stylishly
enough to suggest that he might develop
into a National hope.
* * * *
It is somewhat surprising that, notwith-
standing the greater number of horses
in training of recent years, the record
for starters in the Doncaster Handicap
is still the 36 in the respective years of
Marvel and Cremorne —1892 and 1893.
Since then the largest field was 33 when
Famous- won in 1905, and the smallest
14 in Chatham’s year. He and Marvel
hold the weight record with 10.4, and the
fastest time is Mildura’s 1.351 with 9.3.
There are 80 entries this year, and that
should assure a large field, if not a record.
As was to be expected, there are very
few entries from other States, and, owing
to the difficulty of transport, they may
not supply a starter. Queensland’s cham-
pion, Auction, is not a Doncaster entrant,
and the weight allotted him for the last
Epsom was not an inducement to attempt
to bring him here. Although he is
credited with being very much better on
a dirt than a turf track, the difference can
scarcely account for his great superiority
over the other sprinters that race at
Albion Park. If he were now to meet
them on a turf track it is probable he
would demonstrate that on it, as else-
where, there was still a wide margin be-
tween him and Brisbane’s next best.
Entries for the Sydney Cup total 63,
against last year’s 78, of whom 17
started. When Tartan and Moorilla won
there were 28 starters and only 10 in the
respective years of Australian Peer and
Mestoravon. Carbine was a three-year-
old when he won the Sydney Cup with
9.0, and seven years later his son Wal-
lace won at the same age with 8.12.
» * * *
Lord Mayor Bartley wishes the first
Saturday in every month in Sydney to
be devoted to race meetings for the
benefit of the Lord Mayor’s War and
Patriotic Funds. The proposed move is
laudable, and that extra day would also
be appreciated by everyone associated
with racing. However, there is one
stumbling - block. If the concession
should be granted it would mean that
other bodies in the various capitals would
expect similar treatment, and as that
would be opposed to the Prime Minister’s
“cut-racing” ideas it may be too much
to expect him to say “Yes” to Sydney
and possibly “No” to the others,
* * * *
The report by the stipendiary stewards
concerning the lease of Amberspear re-
sulted in the A.J.C. committee rejecting
that horse’s entry for the January and
Anniversary Handicaps. It was also de-
cided that further nominations would
not be received from S. Green, in whose
name Amberspear had raced. H. Fielder
was fined £25 under the rule that pro-
vides for alleged misleading evidence.
* * * »
Last week the V.R.C. reached a deci-
sion relating to the elimination of sur-
plus acceptors from races, but the pro-
posals are to be submitted to the other
clubs before being put into force.
* * * *
This year’s racing possibilities are not
worrying some clubs in America. Arling-
ton recently announced $50,000 (approxi-
mately £A17,500) as the added money for
this year’s Arlington Classic, and Wash-
ington Park a similar amount for the
American Derby.
* * v *
Followers of form were all astray in
the Challenge Stakes. Carrington Stakes
running pointed to Soho again finishing
ahead of those he beat, but he did not
even get a place. Backers are now won-
dering whether a similar happening is
likely in the Anniversary Handicap.
Tidemark and Dashing Cavalier were
definitely superior to their opponents in
Tattersall’s Cup, and, again meeting the
latter on the same terms, Tidemark’s light
weight should stand to him. His trainer
expects him to be a little better than at
his last outing, and his experience over
a longer distance than any he had pre-
viously attempted should benefit Tide-
mark.
Enderby’s January Handicap win will
find him backers, but if Wilson again
rides him he will probably carry 31b.
overweight, and will have to improve
on his fourth in Tatt.’s Cup to get home
ahead of Tidemark and Dashing Cavalier.
Veiled Threat is improving with each
run, and his third of last Saturday gives
him a good chance of turning the tables
on Enderby. Allowing that the latter car-
ries 31b. overweight, Veiled Threat will
meet him 41b, better. Last week’s run-
ning said little for the prospects of
Dewar, Nightbeam or Lambeth, and
Grand Fils will have to do a lot better
than at his last start to make his chance
a winning one. Prince struck quite a
lot of trouble in the last three furlongs
of the January Handicap, and as he then
finished fourth and drops 71b. he may
be a place possibility. Eureka made a
respectable showing in the Paddington
Handicap, but he does not greatly appeal.
Tidemark should win, with Veiled Threat
a tough opponent.
!)C * * *
Making a reappearance after an
absence from racing for several months,
White Feather and Fearless won at Rand-
wick on Saturday. This proved that some
horses can still be got ready without
racing them into form, a practice that
was customary with several trainers until
there was a big cut in Sydney meetings.
Occasionally a trainer got an unpleasant
surprise when, after running a few no-
wheres, his horse opened at a short price
for a race for which he fancied it. He
did not realise that many racegoers were
just as capable as himself of making
allowance for possible improvement.
Weight and lack of racing stopped
Yaralla in the Challenge Stakes, and
again demonstrated that it is unwise to
put implicit faith in track work. In
their short dashes at Victoria Park
Yaralla generally appeared superior to
his stable-companion John Halifax,
though it should be borne in mind that,
applying their handicap weights, the
former had the advantage. In Satur-
day’s race Yaralla had every chance, but
while he failed over the final furlong
John Halifax, who was behind him enter-
ing the straight, ran on to get second.
Although the Australia Day Handicap
on Saturday next is a furlong further,
Yaralla, benefited by his race, will prob-
ably be seen to greater advantage.
* * * *
The consistency of some horses causes
them to work up high in the weights with-
out winning a really important race.
Evergreen is of the number. He has five
and a half wins to his credit, but, though
these do not include any leading events,
his minor placings include seconds in the
Villiers Stakes, Challenge Stakes, Canter-
bury Park Cup and A.J.C. All-Aged Stakes
and thirds in the Doncaster Handicap
(twice), Caulfield Cup and Cantala Stakes.
He has run eight seconds and seven
thirds. As Evergreen is only five he is
not too old yet to win a big handicap,
but he will have to do it with a full share
of weight.
* * * *
Totalisator betting is increasing in re-
markable fashion in Maoriland. The
reduction of racing days appears to have
made people keener on betting than at
any previous time. At Ellerslie (Auck-
land) on New Year’s Day the turnover of
£185,660 was a record for Maoriland ;
for the corresponding day in 1942 it
was £88,084. The Dunedin turnover
on Boxing Day was £43,693, against
£21,501 the previous year, and would
have been much greater if the totali-
sator staff, which was larger than usual,
had been able to cope with the heavy
business. On some races the payout
was not half completed before the next
one was run.
* * * *
“S.T.S.”: The “yellow, black cap”
racing colors of the late Tom Bair Smith
in S.A. have been registered by J. H.
Gosse, his son-in-law, chairman of Port
Adelaide Club, for use if and when racing
starts there again. They are also the
colors of the funnels of the Adelaide
Steamship Co., in which both Barr Smith
and Gosse have been directors. Origi-
nally they were the racing colors of the
Duke of Westminster, carried to the front
by Stockwell, Bend Or and Ormonde.
* * * *
“Bohemian” (Maoriland) writes:
Owner Ned Fitzgerald on Kindergarten's
win in the Auckland Cup: “He’s than
the best horse ever foaled in N.Z. He’s the
best horse ever foaled anywhere in the world.
He’s different from any other horse that ever
lived. He’s got four gears.” Jockey Bert
Ellis: “When Kindergarten pulled his way to
the front, before entering the straight, he was
only in second gear. As a matter of fact he was
never at top gear at any time- during the race.
He was widening the distance between the field
when he finished, and I regret there Was not
another two furlongs further to go. He would
have created a New Zealand record for the dis-
tance between himself and the following horses.
He finished as fresh as when he started.
Maoriland’s leading trainer, W. George: “No
horse in the Dominion has ever carried such
a weight with no apparent effort over two
miles. He ranks with the great horses of the
world. He is a freak.”
Out of the amateurs came George
Cook, and in his first professional con-
test at Leichhardt he outpointed A 1
Walker in 11 of the 12 rounds, but a
fast Walker finish so impressed the
referee, Pearson, that he gave it a draw.
Walker looked a stone heavier than
Cook, a very “light” middleweight.
Straight lefts worried the heavier man
until he knocked his opponent through
the ropes halfway through the last round.
Two likely-looking lightweights, Ron
Warner and Bob Fuller, put on a good
show at the Sydney Stadium. Warner
was disqualified for fighting savagely
after the tenth round had ended. It
was his second offence.
FOR RANDWICK.
(Before acceptances.)
By "PILOT."
Bondi Handicap: Brinawa, 1 ;
Sir Neith, 2 ; Kiaree, 3.
Havilah Handicap; Falcon
Knight, 1 ; The Beacon, 2; West
Point, 3.
Kurnell Trial Handicap; White
Feather, 1 ; Frustrate, 2 ; The Gam-
bler, 3.
Australia Day Handicap:
Yaralla, 1 ; Gold Salute, 2 ; Mil-
dura, 3.
Anniversary Handicap: Tide-
mark, 1 ; Veiled Threat, 2 ; Prince
or Dashing Cavalier, 3.
Phillip Handicap: Irish Sea, 1 ;
Usher, 2; Miss Pentheus or
Petruchio, 3.


Women's Letters
From Sydney
On Sunday, in honor of Australia’s
155th birthday, over 2000 members of
the voluntary organisations led by the
V.As., marched through the city. Into
Martin-place they swung. They stood
to attention while the “Last Post” was
sounded, and an Australian flag, its stars
very white against its poppy-red back-
ground, was placed on the Cenotaph.
Alan Coad sang “The Supreme Sacri-
fice.” On went the marchers, the sun-
shine adding a brilliance to the blues of
the uniforms and the colors of the pen-
nants and flags proudly held aloft by
the Scouts. At Phillip’s statue in the
Botanic Gardens there were speeches.
Inspiring was the unfurling of the Aus-
tralian flag.
Australians in action on every battle-
front in the world are shown at the exhi-
bition of war photographs, “Australia
Fights,” organised by the Women’s
Auxiliary of the Legacy Club, 546
George-street (that is Morley Johnson’s,
right opposite St. Andrew’s). Many of
the photographs were taken by Major
Patterson, himself a Legacy Club
member. “Laying the Odds at the Races ’
is a typical Australian study. “The
Cathedral in the Pines” shows American
and Australian service men at Mass, which
is being said by an American padre,
Father Carroll. The exhibition was
opened on Monday by Ron Cutler, V.C.
The proceeds go to the Legacy War
Orphans’ Fund.
City children are used to playgrounds.
They have them all the year round. It
is only within the last four years that the
children of the metropolitan and many
of the congested suburban areas know the
joy of having a holiday-time play centre.
Thanks to the National Fitness Council,
30 holiday play centres, including those
at Newcastle, Lithgow and Cessnock, are
echoing with the shrill voices of happy
children.
The King’s School is the first G.P.S.
to lend its grounds, its swimming pool
and all its recreational facilities in-
doors and outdoors to the council, and
over 1000 children from Parramatta and
the surrounding districts are enjoying
themselves beyond their wildest dreams.
This centre, the Newtown Infants’ School
centres and the Granville swimming baths
were visited by the Governor, Lord
Wakehurst, during last week. Judging
by his face he didn’t find the visits boring.
The beauty about these play centres
is the sense of freedom enjoyed by the
children. There is no “do this” or
“don’t do that.” Except for register-
ing, there are no regulations. The super-
visor and his two trained assistants are
not much in evidence. The children
come and go as they please. When they
tire of play, there are the crafts to get
busy on or books to read. This free-
dom to do what they wish when they
wish gives the play centre the glamor
of fairyland.
Mrs. Kathleen Millar has a worth-
while job and is handling it in a masterly
manner. She is the supervisor of the
City of Sydney, N.E.S. Mobile Canteens.
She and her workers (all voluntary) are
very proud of their new filling station,
which is in the Town Hall grounds at
Kent-street, and is close neighbor to the
Town Hall kitchens, where all the food
for the mobile canteens is prepared.
Altogether the fleet is seven canteens
and a panel van (a truck that has not yet
been converted) strong, and all have
been presented by public-spirited citizens,
feither as going concerns or by cash
equivalent.
h To run the canteens there are between
60 and 70 drivers, all women. They have
to know the metropolitan and suburban
areas as intimately as a palmist knows
the lines of the hand. They are all
expert map-readers, and on their maps
portions are numbered. No race-
horse is groomed more lovingly than
these swift-footed food-containers. Swift
and sure this work must be because in
the event of raids the canteens will ser-
vice the rescue and demolition parties.
Should a blitz rage all drivers and helpers
will report immediately to the Town Hall
basement. After that Mrs. Millar will
direct operations through a system of
telephones and runners.
: If the worst should happen the new
filling station will be a real blessing. It
is only a matter of minutes for the loaded
canteens to get from the Town Hall
kitchens to Kent-street, and a matter of
seconds for them to be furnished with
the insulated containers filled with boil-
ing hot tea and coffee —ready for the
road. The station has been designed
for safety and quick action. Finding that
the four gas coppers took too long to
boil, Mrs. Miller has had a large shining
white enamel cylinder installed. This
feeds the coppers with water at 180 deg.,
so that boiling point is not far off. The
only lifting is that of the empty con-
tainers on to the trolleys. These are
wheeled under the tap of the coppers,
then wheeled to the open door of the can-
teens, where they slide into place.
In the meantime the canteens are on
duty during every big parade in the city,
serving, at Prince Alfred Park or the
Domain, tea and biscuits to as many as
4000 marchers, if necessary. Every day,
too, at midday, three helpers take a can-
teen to the offices of the Import Pro-
curement Board in William-street. Here
the staff rush the sandwiches. Money
from the sales helps to pay the running
expenses of the canteens. The fleet was
on the job during last Sunday’s city of
Sydney N.E.S. elimination test.
Elaine Haxton’s work as an artist is
well known. She is a product of East
Sydney Technical, plus study and travel
in England, Europe and America, es-
pecially Mexico. Her work has light-
ness, brightness and a highly-decorative
quality. Elaine is a clever illustrator of
books, both grave and gay, and is at
present busy illustrating a primer for use
in Catholic schools. Photograph by
Gordon Andrews.
The Parker lady, who has been
matron of Furlough House, Orange, for
the last two years, has had to give up
those duties for a time, result of
severe illness. She is at present taking a
rest at Vaucluse, though it is her inten-
tion, as soon as she feels better, to return
and take up the management of Fur-
lough House again for the duration.
This, she says, is her contribution to the
war effort. Mrs. Spencer Bridge, presi-
dent of the Orange auxiliary of the
R.S.L., has taken over the kindly work
in the meantime.
To have carried on successfully the
usual work of the Y.W.C.A. for three
years would be considered a whole-time
job by most women. But Lyra Taylor,
the retiring secretary, did more than this.
She established Open House for men and
women of the services, the A.T.F.
Women’s Club and the Three Services
Younger Set. The Butters lady, presi-
dent of the Y.W., recounted all this and
more at the party given by the Y.W.
board in Lyra’s honor. And anything
she forgot Mr. Justice Ferguson added.
After the speeches Marie Browne sang,
and afternoon tea was served to the 400
friends and admirers of Lyra who had
come to wish her God-speed and success
in her work in Canada.
At the party Lyra Taylor spoke of the
day when voluntary workers would be
given intelligence and general-aptitude
tests. But if such a day comes the prob-
ability is that the voluntary worker will
just fade out of the picture. These women
take up the work they are interested in.
They do it for love. Mrs. A would not
submit to a test that might rank her lower
in intelligence than her neighbor and
friend Mrs. B. In voluntary work, just
as in most other things, people sooner
or later find their level,
A recent interesting visitor to Sydney
was Lieutenant Lynka Isaacson,
A.W.A.S., one of Brigadier Errol Knox’s
staff at the Directorate of Public Rela-
tions in Melbourne. Her special job (and
she is the first woman to hold such a
one) is handling publicity in connection
with the A.W.A.S., the A.A.M.W.S., and
the A.N.S. All the Isaacson family are
helping the war. Lynka’s husband (sol-
dier in the last war) is in the V.D.C.,
daughter Joan is in the A.W.A.S., and
son Peter is an intrepid Flight-Sergeant.
From Melbourne
The winding up of many war-fund
raffles in the last few weeks has brought
to light information about the best spots
in and about the city to catch the ticket-
buying crowd. Executives of auxiliaries
are tabulating their findings for future
use, as they have found that it is of the
utmost importance to pick the right spots.
Arcade corners in the central part of
Collins-street seem to beat all other pos-
sies, as lunchtime crowds and shoppers
tend to potter around there looking in
windows. Raffle tickets sell well at the
doors of big shops for the same reason.
Cafes and tearooms come high on the
list, as they are frequented in all
weathers. On one thing all ticket-sellers
are agreed. “We must buy some screens
to keep those awful draughts off our legs,
if there are a few spare pennies, Mrs.
President,” can be heard at all auxiliary
meetings.
What the warrior on leave likes has
always been a vexed question in Mel-
bourne. For a time there was a feeling
that he was too polite to say so but just
hated to go into the homes of total
strangers and meet all the family. Then
hospitality centres began to say that he
really liked such domestic entertainment.
Fact seems to be that some do and some
don’t. New troops don’t want home
entertainment; those resting after service
do. Perhaps they like best the feeling
that there’s no sergeant-major about and
army regs. are unknown. And quite a
few of them can do with a bit of
mothering.
Women’s Land Army directors of Vic-
toria, Tas. and S.A. continue discussions
aimed to promote the well-being of the
girls under their control. The W.L.A. is
still waiting for the issue of a uniform,
and until it gets it this service will be less
attractive than rival services to even
country-minded girls. Nevertheless, the
Land Army secures recruits, and at a
city school girls are learning milking
and all the rest of the country accom-
plishments against the day when farmers
call for their services. There have been
some prejudices to encounter, but, ac-
cording to the directors, the W.L.A. is
daily making converts to the view that
workers deserve to be housed comfort-
ably if they are to stick to their jobs.
Engagements and weddings of service
women are being announced with great
frequency, but all these maidens tell the
same tale —that it is not going to inter-
fere with the job on hand. Sharing this
view is Corporal Olive Newman, who
has announced her engagement to
Gunner Wm. A. H. Stoyles, A.I.F. A
year’s course at Invergowrie Homecraft
Hostel in peace-time days will be a good
preparation for matrimony when peace
comes again, this couple being determined
that their wedding will not be till both
can finally put aside military obligations.
Leaving a mannequin’s job for parades
of a different sort, Corporal Newman
joined the A.W.A.S. in June of last year.
She is the daughter of the W. J. New-
mans, of Kew. Fiance is son of Lieut.-
Col. and Mrs. A. M. Stoyles, of the
same subbub. Picture of Corporal New-
man is by Antoirte-Kershaw.
Newest of the uniforms to cross the city
streetscape is that of the W.R.A.N.S.
So far they are few, and the school for
officers at Flinders has removed one lot
of them from our view. Navy blue, brass
buttons and a slouch navy felt hat give
the naval touch, and as the color’s be-
coming the girls look well in it. One of
the early W..R.A.N.S. is Heather Brown,
daughter of a former Mayor of Geelong,
Charlie Brown, and Mrs. Brown, who is
sister to Adrian (King) Cole, of Dieppe
commando fame, who now commands in
Northern Ireland.
SOS goes out to all who can sing, can
play anything from a guitar to a jew’s-
harp or can tell a funny story that will
pass the censor. Their value is above
rubies, and they are wanted now by the
good folk who plan concerts for the
troops. It seems that over the months
the younger and sturdier performers
have been going off to munitions or other
ways of assisting the war effort, and have
found that they can’t continue to work all
day or night, then go out and be merry
and entertaining. The strength of the
Victorian company of entertainers should
be 500, and it needs all the recruits it can
get.
Flitting is an art, whenever and wher-
ever it is practised, whether the flitter
has paid the rent or not. But flitting par
excellence was the move out from “St.
Kit’s” by the “girls in the Air-Force blue,”
as they call themselves in their song. It
started in the dewy morn, and when
sun set they were still heave-yo-hoing
and now-all-togethering as they pushed
and pulled the incredible amount of fur-
niture that they had acquired into vans
already crowded with kit and war-time
impedimenta. Now St. Catherine’s is
getting itself into school shape while
sundry little girls in Toorak are
waxing excited over the thought that
“this year we’ll all be back in our own
place again.” W.A.A.A.F. move was to
more spacious quarters out Preston way,
where a perfect building intended for a
hospital was vacant.
The Trinity Chapel wedding of Jean
Moore and Eric O’Shea brought a gather-
ing of the historically-minded, as bride
and ’groom and officiating chaplain
were all fellow-students of the same year
in the History school, as well as college
friends, and many fellow-students were
among those who came to wish them all
the best. Notably absent was Professor
R. M. Crawford, now in Moscow, for
bride and ’groom were among his first
students when he came to Melbourne
as professor, and the group celebrated
that meeting with a dinner with the
prof, at each year’s end. Though the
wedding was at three days’ notice, to suit
bridegroom’s army leave, the traditional
white satin and veil were managed, the
bride wearing her mother’s wedding dress
with a few alterations here and there.
The bride is the daughter of Mrs. N.
Moore, of Glen Iris, and the late
Nathaniel Moore, of Glencarn, and the
bridegroom is younger son of Mr. and
Mrs. W. P. O’Shea, of Clayton.
There is great rejoicing among his
sisters and brothers of the press over
Pilot-Officer Town’s well-won honor, the
Air Force Cross. When Neil Town was
a press photographer he was noted for
his artistic sense, and brides regarded
themselves as lucky if he took their bridal
groups for the papers. The Russian
Ballet afforded him some of his best
pictures. He was a quiet chap and
worked with so little fuss that he put
sitters at ease. He learned flying in his
spare time.
Brides who adhered to the white-flower
decoration scheme faced a lack of every-
thing but the simple daisy last week,
unless they had made long-standing
preparations. Even daisies were being
hoarded by florists for special customers
as if they had been the tulips and lilies-
of-the-valley of more flowery months.
Not only were white flowers practically
unobtainable, but everything in the blos-
soming line was very scarce, and city
florists could count the bunches they pos-
sessed on their fingers. Water-lilies were
the standby of bridal bouquets, but, of
course, were no good for decorating.
Incidentally, bridal array seems to be
sticking to traditional formality more
than ever these war days, and brides-
maids, contrary to earlier expectations,
are the rule. Borrowing is probably the
secret, helped out by a trifle of second-
hand and therefore couponless trading
between brides that were and brides-
to-be.
These days a crowd seen craning in
absorbed interest on a busy street doesn’t
mean that somebody has slipped on a
banana skin or a bank clerk has been
shot, as it might have in the roaring days
of peace. Further inspection, if you can
squeeze your way to the front, reveals a
somewhat elderly gentleman darning a
very large ladder in a pair of stockings
with one of the new crochet-hook stock-
ing-darners. We have girl “trammies”
and station porters, but apparently it
takes a man to demonstrate a stocking-
darner. Audience is usually just as many
men as women, oddly enough.


Divorce Notice.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES— In Divorce.
No. 964 of 1941.
TO the Petitioner PRETORIA ISABELLA
VERA GILLESPIE late of Clifford Downs
Carathool N.S.W.—TAKE NOTICE that
WALTER LAWRENCE GILLESPIE the Re-
spondent in this suit intends to apply to this
Court at Sydney on the Sixteenth day of February
1943 at 10 a.m. to have the Decree Nisi herein
made absolute.—LOßTON DUKE & CO.,
Solicitors for the Respondent, 77 Castlereagh
Street, Sydney.
RUPTURE
l NO PADS—NO SPRINGS
ACTS
LIKE THE HRHD
The latest invention of Dr.
L. Baitere is the result of 40
years’ practice and improve-
ments. Stupendous success
of new method of control.
The NEO-BARR ERE acts
like the hand when placed
fiat upon the orifice. You
will at once without
effort and in all move-
ments hold tile intes-
tine in its cavity.
Write To-day for
FREE LITERATURE,
BARRERE DISTRIBUTION CO.
(Dept. la), 343 ELIZABETH ST., SIDNEY.
Form a Group!
Join a Group!
Buy
WAR SAVINGS CERTIFICATES
BRANDAIJFR’S
PENS
Every point
guaranteed
do not experiment with imitations.
a BB.ANDA DEE * 00, Ltd, BI&UIKOHAH. ENO
SMOKE-OH!
“His reasoning is this—the girls are Anglo-
Saxons and speak the same language as their
husbands.” — “D.T.”
As their husbands used to speak, that
is.
F v F v
“Twenty-six wheel cycle, in good condition.”
Centipedes will bid recklessly for this.
“It is estimated that the average woman in
the U.S.A. listens to 18 radio serials each
week.” — “World’s News.”
And doubtless the more practised can
effectively nag their husbands without
losing the thread of any of the 18.
v v *l*
The Feminine Touch.
“Even when employed on men’s work women
should always remember that they are femi-
nine.” — “Women’s Weekly.”
Tessa the taxi-girl swore as the heavy
truck rolled out of the side street. There
was a crunch as one of her front mud-
guards buckled. She jammed on the
brakes and both vehicles came to a stand-
still.
“What the hell do you think you’re
doing, you big adjectival so-and-so!” she
shouted. The truck-driver got out. ‘Til
pull your nose, you cheeky little swine! ”
he yelled.
Tessa got out, the glint of battle in
her eye. A heavy left to the ear stag-
gered the man. He retaliated with a right
swing to the solar; but Tessa had lots
of protective tissue thereabouts. Then
she kicked him deftly and hard on the
shin, and as he involuntarily bent she
scored a k.o. with an uppercut which had
her whole 13 stone behind it.
Panting and rubbing her knuckles, she
got back into her taxi. Then she took
out her powder and lipstick and began
to restore her glamor.
Yes! Tessa never forgot that she was
feminine!
Nat.
•F *F 4* *F
“It is no use asking a Woman to profit by
her husband’s example. She declines to take
a leaf out of his book.” — Woman’s paper.
Unless it’s his cheque-book.
Dsd You Know?
“That if the ink in your inkwell dries up in
hot weather it can be thinned by adding a
small quantity of vinegar.”— “Sun.”
Writing boys and radio news-reviewers,
please note.
Dumped.
“Out of Mr. Bremer’s well-blackened shoes
had fallen a quantity of dry, clean beach sand! ’’
—Short story.
Naturally his wife suspected something
fishy, the more so as his excuses failed
to hold water. Although she couldn’t
fathom why, it was obvious that his feel-
ings were flowing along a fresh channel,
and with the realisation the tide of her
affection for him began to ebb. Gradu-
ally they drifted further and further
apart, and before long the marriage was
irrevocably washed up. Now Bremer is
well and truly on the rocks, because when
the question of alimony came up the
Judge ordered him to shell out heavily.
Cal.
Lament by a Lady.
Once {though the memory grows dim)
In city and suburban stores
A host of nimble servitors
Would gratify your slightest whim.
Your sallies in the realm of wit
Would stir them to refreshing mirth ;
They acted like you owned the earth.
Which used to flatter you a bit.
But nowadays the shops maintain
A less becoming atmosphere ;
You almost can detect, my dear,
A subtle flavor of disdain !
And though you sink your pride and
crawl
To people whom, a year ago,
You wouldn’t condescend to know.
It doesn’t flatter them at all!
P. M. L.
Paragon.
“1 have yet to meet the husband who
nonestly believes that his wife is too good for
him,” says a writer.
My wife’s a lady, I’m a gent.;
She’s satisfied and I’m content.
My wife is constant, I am true ;
She’s logical and I am, too.
My wife likes punting. I’m a sport ;
She dresses well, I’m smart. In short.
We are, take one thing with another,
No worse or better than each other.
But when we’re quoting virtues she
Is frankly much too good for me !
P. O. M. C.
’Phone Conversation Piece.
“Oh, is that you, Mildred? This is
Sue here. How are you, dear?... .Yes,
isn’t it simply a gorgeous day!., ..Yes,
perfect summer weather. I was saying to
Harold only this morning it’s a positive
shame to be indoors when the air is so
like champagne. And isn’t everything
looking lovely after that drop of rain?
It just makes me feel I’d love to be pot-
tering around the garden or just lolling
somewhere in the glorious sunshine look-
ing at trees....
“Yes, pretty well, thanks, dear. I was
just wondering if you had anything par-
ticular on today. I’m at a loose end
myself.’ Thought we might have the day
out together
“All right then ; where shall we go?
I’ll leave it to you, dear... .Where?....
The Botanical Gardens? Ye-e-es, but
don’t you think it gets a little dull after
a while just sitting there?... .No, dear,
of course, I don’t mind if you’d like to
go there, but I was wondering if you'd
care to see a show.... Yes, there’s a
new picture starting today.... All right,
dear, see you outside the box-office a few
minutes before eleven All right, dear ;
bye-bye till then.”
K.
“On behalf of an absentee timber-worker, it
was pleaded that, though acquitted on a
minor charge, he had taken his arrest to heart
and was depressed by it.”
Although for years he did his bit
With wood, he was not made of it;
Then suddenly a big, malign
Cop lumbered him, and made him pine.
Brian Bureau.
“He looks a bit of a Quisling to me.’
The reason a doctor makes you say 99
is to get you used to big figures before
he sends his bill.
*F *F *l* 4*
“Murphy resented the way officers and
n.c.os. spoke to him.”— Sydney weekly.
There would be a natural inclination
to chip him.
4* 4 1 4*
“Very old school ties with Japan.”
—“Sunday Telegraph.”
Now they’re getting them in the neck.
Freehold.
“That mother instinct which prompts a
woman to throw protecting arms about her
daughter whenever a young man appears is not
always to be followed.”— Woman’s paper.
When Reginald’s coaxed home by Pearl
To render his initial bow,
Don’t throw stout arms about the girl ;
Her own field she must learn to plough.
No, Ma, bethink you it will pay
{More so if he’s got lots of pelf )
A deeper instinct to obey
And grab the young man for yourself!
P. M.
Rough Deal,
“Racing men advised to take up gardening.”
— “Argus.”
So that means they’ll be turning up
the turf, eh?
•F *F *F *F
“It is equally true that the pill is greater
than the sword.”— “Sun.”
Though I’ll admit, without a qualm,
In ignorance I wallow,
A statement such as that above
Is very hard to swallow.
C.
Big Business.
“A treaty has been signed in Berlin by Nazi
Foreign Minister Ribbentrop and the Jap Am-
bassador ‘to exploit the economic spheres of
Asia and Europe for total war against our
enemies.’ ”
Hitler’s super-plonk salesman rose from
the table after appending his signature,
and eyed the Oriental diplomat through
his monocle as one would inspect a
curious specimen of the bandar-log.
“Banzai!” he said, with elegant conde-
scension.
“Heel honorable Hitler,” replied
General Hiroshi Oshima.
“And half-sole him, too, vor all I
cares,” murmured Ribbentrop. Aloud
he said: “Vor dis grand occasions in der
ferry pest champagne ve vill a toast
drink, hein ?” A flunkey escorted by four
Sturmtruppen entered carrying a bottle
and glasses. After the libation was
poured the Nazi Minister raised his glass.
“To der Son off Heaven,” he toasted.
The Jap ambassador raised his. “Hon.
ambassador pliz to toss off bumper and
no heeltaps to Adolf, All High Up and
Revered Controller of Firmamentary
Planets! ”
The son of Nippon nobly repressed a
shudder as the champagne fizzled down
his gullet.
“As a results of agree,” he said, “trad-
ings between our great countries could
anticipate sudden hop up, and then some.
Reich the Number Three can supply
Nippon with essentially goods, Nippon
now can shoot along to Reich those goods
of vital necessaries for making war
machine fly off handle and push along
pronto in circles. The Mikado speaks
through his debased and rotten servant.”
“Vor der start, Herr Ambassador,” said
Von Ribbentrop, “der Reich vill to
Nippon supply right avay von billion
dolls’ eyes, seven million mout’-organ
holes, von hoondred t’ousand gross off
common marbles, ten million valking-
stick ferrules und several shiploads each
off opera hats, buddonhooks, croquet
mallets und pre-fabricated howdahs.” .
“The Mikado, through this lump of
unworthy offal who is honorable cring-
ing menial, emits spectacular and ebul-
lient ‘Hoop-rahs!’ at honorable magnifi-
cent tidings,” responded the general. “All
Nipponese will hurl cadies skyward and
boot cat for sheer joy. In returns,
H.I.M. and suite, Hon. Tojo and Hon.
Yes-men promise reciprocatings quicker
than possible by sending oils, rubbers, tin,
coffees, sake, fishes, rices and cakes in
quantities of a plurality to make Hon.
Fiihrer’s eyes goggle even more.”
“Guten!” said Ribbentrop. “Der
spinal cords off der broblem is broken,
mein ? Id remains only vor der drivial
madder of gedding der stuff here und
dere, fa ?”
“Unquestionings. And the wiping out
for the last times of U.S. and British
navies by invincible and heaven-protected
fleets of the Rising Sun has made task
of pushing goods across globe as easy as
coming slight gutser off horizontal cut-up
section of brought-down tree!”
Two months later General Oshima pre-
sented himself again at the Wilhelm-
strasse.
“The news I have trotted along is of a
divine scrumptiousness,” he announced.
“Honorable Nipponese Commerce De-
partment advises that 160 ships loaded
up to Plimsoll with rubbers, oils and
heaps of exciting etceteras now rushing
Reichwards pronto. That will be 576
million yen, pliz.”
Von Ribbentrop rubbed his hands.
“Horst Wessel!” he cried gleefully. “Thor
on der Herrenvolk smiles, weren’t it! Und
Japan in luck is. But yesterday 298
ships from Bremen sailed chock-full mitt
der dolls’ eyes, opera hats, howdahs und
der rest off der vital materials vor total
yar. Der cost to Japan vill be 47 bil-
lion Reichsmarks, in gold payable.”
“Excuse, pliz, Hon. Ribbentrop. In-
formation received Jap Embassy that
three days ago only 11 undamaged ships
lying doggo in Bremen harbor.”
“Ve sneak in de odder 287 two days
ago from somevheres else,” countered
the Nazi Minister smoothly.
“Perhaps Hon. Ribbentrop not think-
ing of pushing across swiftie on Nippon,
yes?”
“Nodt at all. Nippon agree to bay
on production off ships’ manifests. Ve
vill produce them, proving der goods
must half gone! Nottings fairer could
possibly be, Herr Ambassador.”
Three months later a puzzled Jap am-
bassador came again to the Wilhelm-
strasse. Not a ship had arrived. It
couldn’t have been that they were cap-
tured or sunk by the Royal or U.S.
Navy, because they had already been
annihilated by the Japs, several times to
make certain. Perhaps the ships had got
lost or had gone to the Antarctic to take
temporary shelter from a typhoon. “Any-
way,” General Oshima concluded, “what
odds if honorable ships have gone up the
spout? It is nothing. The main thing is
that the trade between our countries is
reaching new highs in bounds and leaps.
We are on the velvet cushion. But did
you say Nippon is in debt to the Reich
over the shipments, Hon. Ribbentrop?”
“Herr General,” purred the super-
plonk salesman, “it only means that
Nippon owes the Reich a madder of t’ree
hoondred fifteen million Reichsmarks.”
Bo.


THE OTHER FELLOW'S MIND
The contributor placed first is paid
4£d. per line; all others per line.
W.A. and Centralisation
W.A. newspaper accusations of central-
isation policy aimed at the Federal Gov-
ernment make laughable reading for
Westralians not domiciled in the favored
metropolitan area.
If ever a policy of extreme centralisa-
tion was completely and selfishly adhered
to it is that which has been pursued by
successive W.A. Governments, irrespec-
tive of political leanings. An outstanding
example is the port of Fremantle.
Artificially constructed at the mouth
of the Swan River, Fremantle harbor has
to be continually dredged of river silt
to allow boats of even moderate size to
berth; yet practically all overseas and
inter-State shipping, both incoming and
outgoing, is diverted there, owing to lack
of handling facilities at other ports.
This state of affairs could be easily
understood if W.A. were deficient in
natural harbors. On the south coast it
has one of the finest in Australia : Albany,
natural port for a huge wheat-, wool-
and fruit-growing district. Exploited as
such? Not on your life! This natural,
self-dredging harbor, with King George’s
Sound —itseflf almost a harbor —at its
front door, has had, to put it in the
words of the member, “as much money
spent on it in 20 years as an Allied sailor
recently spent on a diamond engagement
ring”—and the member was accused
of flogging the handle of the parish pump
for mentioning it! —K. C. G. (W.A.).
A Word for Army Clerks
Criticism has been levelled at the
number of Army clerks who hold n.c.o.
rank. It is maintained that in many cases
their places could be taken by women,
and such a suggestion may sound quite
reasonable.
A point overlooked, however, is that
most administrative positions in the
Army call for long hours of tedious work
to which women would not take kindly,
and, in addition, the number of women
available to take over such positions is
relatively small, unless compulsion were
used. On the other hand, most men in
base jobs are medically class “B” and
therefore fit for sedentary duties only.
Thus their replacement would have little,
if any, value in assisting the war effort. —
Pierrot (N.S.W.).
War Work for O.A. Pensioners
In the last 12 months old-age pensions
in force decreased from 275,843 to
272,163. The decrease occurred almost
wholly in Vic. and S.A., the States in
which the man-power shortage is most
acute, many pensioners having resumed
work to assist the war effort.
Pensioners who have discontinued their
pensions, even if . only temporarily, de-
serve respect and praise. Unfortunately,
their altruistic spirit isn’t emulated. In
my town there are considerable numbers
of able-bodied pensioners on the right
side of 70 who regard the pension as
their definite right on attaining the age
of 65. A number of these active o.a.ps.
have been offered jobs for the duration
on work that is not laborious at basic-
wage rates. They flatly declined to ac-
cept it, stating that they had no in-
clination to surrender their easy-come-
by pension. The man-power authorities
could ease labor shortages in many direc-
tions by calling up these men —many of
them have no family ties —and, if medi-
cally fit, directing them to resume work
in the national interest. — Why Not (Q.).
Service Men and Politics
Tell “2nd Divvy” (B. 13/1 /’43) that a
soldier party is in process of formation
in Melbourne. Its title, “The United Ex-
Servicemen’s and Women’s Political
Association of Australia,” could well be
abbreviated and the “ex” could be elimi-
nated, for the constitution, now in the
printer’s hands, permits those at present
serving to become members and their
immediate relatives as well.
Political platform is in process of draft-
ing, and there’s nothing narrow or paro-
chial or wildcat about it. Its sponsors
desire that the organisation should appeal
to ah decent and sane people.
If “2nd Divvy” and others interested
will write W. B. Edwards, Box 58, Col-
lins-street P. 0., Melbourne, they will be
given all available information. —L. R. C.
(Vic.).
Social Credit and War Finance
“Utilise Social Credit to pay for the
war” wails the financial “expert.” Catch-
phrases are the order of the day and
Social Credit is perhaps the most over-
worked of them all. Exactly what it is
nobody seems to know, but bankers who
have made a lifelong study of finance
say that it hasn’t a body to be kicked or
a soul to be damned.
Banking is an extremely intricate busi-
ness. The average Social Creditor is a
half-baked theorist. For instance, he
knows practically nothing of the part
banks play in foreign loans. Tinkering
with the financial structure might cause
further international complications, as if
there were not sufficient friction on this
mudball!
Nationalisation would be courting dis-
aster. We know with what ease political
pressure can be brought to bear on
nationalised industries. We have no
reason to suppose that the banks would
fare better. (During Lang’s regime
N. S. Wales public service payments were
deferred.)
A clamor is made of the huge profits
banks make. The fact is these look large
but are trifling in comparison with their
turnover.
The present financial system has taken
centuries to build up and is an effi-
cient instrument. Despite that, many ill -
informed people imagine that to solve
our financial difficulties you need only
“CRAWLER!"
set the printing machine in motion. A
perusual of modern German history
would bring them to earth! —A. Daly
(S.A.).
“Aid Russia”
Nothing has been heard in Sydney of
the N.S.W. Aid Russia Committee since
it decided to change its name, nor has
the public been informed what the new
name is, but the concern has found a
belated champion in the “Furnishing
Worker,” published “for the Furnishing
Trades Union, Victorian branch.”
This paper incautiously admits that the
N.S.W. Aid Russia Committee is “a
propaganda body,” though it does not
mention that most of the propaganda was
for a Second Front in Europe or that
none of the committeemen will attend it.
Members of the union are urged or
ordered to support the “propaganda
body” and the Australia-Soviet Friend-
ship League. Not a word about support-
ing the Red Cross, the Comforts Fund,
the Prisoners-of-War Society, church war-
relief funds or scores of other Australian
organisations infinitely more deserving
of what members of the union can spare.
—D. E. (N.S.W.).
Dictatorship or Democracy?
The party system of government is
doomed because it has failed to deliver
the goods the people want; and a new
form of government will arise to take its
place. We Australians will decide now
by our action or inaction whether our
new system is true democracy or dic-
tatorship. If our race is too apathetic or
insufficiently mature to accept the re-
sponsibilities of democracy so much the
worse for us.
Electors in each Australian electoral
division must regain control of their Par-
liamentary representatives and through
some simple mechanism make known to
them their will upon broad matters of
policy.
Nothing has perverted the true func-
tion of Parliament more than Cabinet
rule, yet most members detest taking
orders from party bosses, and both from
a sense of duty and for their own pro-
tection are willing and even anxious to
co-operate directly with their electors
whenever this is made possible for them.
Such a procedure is operating success-
fully in several Australian electorates and
only needs extending in order to produce
political democracy in this country. —
James Kidman (Tas.).
Compulsory Unionism
The Australian trade-union movement
cannot with reason claim the allegiance
of all employees until its character is
greatly changed. .
As a first step affiliation with a
political party and the levying of
members for political purposes will have
to be prohibited. Then there will have to
be strict definition of the powers of the
union and the safeguarding of individual
members from victimisation at the hands
of those in control of it. Secret ballots,
independently conducted, will also be
necessary. The functions of the trade-
union would then be confined to Arbi-
tration Court work and the provision of
benefits.
Restricted to these spheres trade-unions
would be of the highest social value. In
the second capacity they could provide
home ownership, superannuation and
health, life and unemployment insurance.
They could also play a part in the promo-
tion of better facilities for technical edu-
cation, and thus the raising of the stand-
ard of Australian production, and could
become important shareholders in indus-
try. The only persons who would not
voluntarily join such unions would be
those of the “something-for-nothing”
breed, who object to making contribu-
tions even to secure substantial benefits.
Few Australian trade-unions pay much
attention to provision of social ameni-
ties. Nearly all are attached to the Labor
party, contribute to its fighting fund and
devote a good deal of activity to further-
ance of its contentious political aims.
These unions are mainly political asso-
ciations. Yet their leaders have the
effrontery to claim the right of compul-
sory recruitment.
Trade-unionism is not necessary to the
working of the industrial arbitration sys-
tem. Still, as the unions do the business,
they have a case for defrayment of the
cost by compulsory contribution from all
for whom they act.
That, however, would be a very dif-
ferent thing from compulsory unionism.
—Lyle (N.S.W.).
Back to the Bush
A few months ago it was suggested in
The Bulletin that the thousands of
Aussies (city-born and -bred) now in
camps in various parts of the bush might
acquire a love for the outback, and would
return there to live when hostilities had
ceased.
During recent weeks I’ve met dozens
of men (city-bred) who have made their
first prolonged stay in the bush. Few of
them desire to return to the bush to work.
They would like to live there, certainly,
where everything is quite and peaceful,
but as for taking up rural pursuits, such
as farming—never! They’ve talked with
too many farmers.
When the war is over thousands of
men, including the writer, will be eager
to return to the bush. Now is the time
for the Government to prepare for this
exodus ; new industries should be started
—out in the bush: woollen- and cotton-
mills, woolscours and meatworks.
When industry goes out into the bush,
prosperity will come to the farms ; trade
will expand, and the population will go
ahead by leaps and bounds. — Zend
Avesta (Q.).
Child Labor in S.A.
Utilising child labor (B. 16/12/ ’42) may
be all right, but South Australia seems
to be finding the question of wages a
stumbling-block. Fruitgrowers along the
Murray are paying children according to
age, ignoring the fact that the average
country-bred lad of fourteen can out-
strip the city-born youth of equal age.
The only absolutely fair way of overcom-
ing this is by paying the youthful toilers
for the amount of work they perform.
Under such a system the harassed fruit-
growers would find the response to their
appeals much more hearty than at pres-
ent— Jaen Jay (S.A.).
Sheep and Lease-Lend
Our corner of N. S. Wales has had
more rain in three months than it had
in the previous two years. The grass is
so high that you can’t see the sheep in
it, grass-seed makes them look like por-
cupines and there are blowflies galore.
Shortbanded, we’re trying to cope with
blown sheep, trying to crutch and wig
seedy sheep and trying to keep them from
dying from worm infestation.
Our sheep are wormier this year than
for a long time, and we cannot get the
drenches we usually use. Bluestone-nico-
tine is one we need at present, and
though graziers are clamoring for it while
their sheep are dying in hundreds we
cannot get it until some new Govern-
ment departments have discussed the
matter of releasing supplies.
Nicotine sulphate has to be brought in
under Lease-Lend, and though arrange-
ments appear to have been made
some time ago between drench manu-
facturers and the Government to
handle the nicotine and distribute it
immediately on arrival we are still
waiting and watching our sheep die.
Nobody seems to know what’s caus-
ing the hold-up. The only facts that can
be elicited are that a shipment of nico-
tine has been in port for over a month
and various Government officials are
squabbling over it, while drench manu-
facturers can get no information as
to how much they are likely to get and
can make no preparations for processing
it until they do. I am also informed that
they will not be able to sell it until the
Prices Commissioner has been consulted
about the retail price.
Some time ago some bright politician
expressed the opinion that there were too
many sheep in the country and numbers
would have to be reduced. Some of
these Government departments appear to
have found a way to do it. — Nico Tine
(N.S.W.).
Any Tears to Spare ?
The wool-appraisement scheme has
some flaws, and many do not like it.
Comparisons made in a district reveal
some startling disparity of prices every
year. Bulletin 30/12/’42 was compli-
mentary to G. L. O. Dewez, cx-
Director of Wool Appraisement. We
admit he did his job, and it was a big
one and the best in the circumstances.
But many woolgrowers are not so crazy
over the scheme or overawed by it. They
know too much about wool themselves.
Their sons, too, cannot be beaten at the
game, and there are as good wool
appraisers in the country as ever saw a
city wool store. Otherwise, how could
they judge at shows and, if competitors,
win grand championships, etc.?
Many a good laugh have they had over
some discarded wool pushed away in the
shed which has later brought a better
price than some accepted wool.
I can’t shed any crocodile tears over
any of those city chaps with great salaries,
especially on the buyers’ side, or brokers,
either. It is the sellers who bear the
burden and heat of the day. Mr. Scully
knows that 85 p.c. of the woolgrowers
are in debt to banks, etc., and have bor-
rowed on their life-insurance policies and
do not own the deeds of their land.
Properties are for sale all over the
country. . . , ,
However, we are hastily reminded by
the town-dweller that we are lucky to
have sold our wool at all in war-time. It
is a good thing for all that we did, or
where would we all be, seeing that wool
is Australia’s chief source of wealth?
What about a few tears for us, who have
to read at night by a fat lamp, seeing that
we now cannot get any lamp wicks from
fapan or Germany?— Grasshopper
(N.S.W.).


Wl
imSF-: \_4.
.
"■V'
ffel
iiKWMiaMMM
, lP^” r
- '
v .
mlill
W
steel furnace at the B.H.P. Newcastle Steel Works.
■
I
Hr §
O TEEL is the No. 1 requirement for victory.
.Lessons taught by events on the world’s battle
fronts emphasise that the enemy’s strength in tanks
and firepower must be matched before we can
expect success.
The production of steel, therefore, is our No. 1
industrial activity. Largely through the efforts of
The Broken Hill Proprietary Co., Ltd., the Aus-
tralian steel industry is making available greatly
increased tonnages at the world’s lowest prices.
Both in volume and variety, B.H.P. Steel is being
produced to the industry’s maximum capacity, en-
suring supply of the material vital to both the muni-
tion industries and essential civil works.
Since war began, B.H.P. has pioneered the manu-
facture in Australia of three other strategic
. > >NV-. V
1
materials, viz., ferro alloys, magnesium and
steel form a
quartet vital to effective munition produc-
tion. 111
As a result of the virile Australian private
enterprise evident in the triumphs cited here,
our industries are practically self-provident
in all essential materials, thus ensuring for
our fighting men a constant flow of efficient
weapons and equipment*
THE BROKEN HILL PRO
ARY CO. LT
MELBOURNE, SYDNEY, ADELAIDE, PERTH. IRON AND STEEL WORKS, NEWCASTLE, N. S. WALES, AND WHYALLA,
