

đ
The Bulletin
“The Bulletin,” Vol. 64.—No. 3322
Wednesday, October 13, 1943
Price 6d.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newsoaner.,
Seppelts
ARBROATH ABBEY.
MEMORIAL TO WILLIAM THE LION OF SCOTLAND.
JN the year .1178, from Kelso in the south, came Tyronensian
Benedictine monks to Arbroath, where, by William the Lion, was
established lor them the Abbey of which is pictured here the
modern ruins. This was William’s only personal foundation, and
he was buried within its precincts in the year 1214. Of red sand-
stone, and mainly of Early English style—only the western gable
is Norman—Arbroath Abbey is still peerless among the ruins
which adorn the Scottish scene. The harbour at Arbroath was
originally constructed and maintained by the abbots under an
agreement between the burgesses and one John Gedy, the abbot
in the year 1394. In olden days, as a guide to sailors,'a beacon
shone from the fine round window, “the O of Arbroath,” which
still survives in the south transept. What is now Arbroath’s High
Street contains the main ruins of the Abbey, while, half a mile
away, is Hospitalfield,* once the abbey hospice and the “Monks-
burn” of Scott’s “Antiquary.” Arbroath itself, by the way', is
Scott’s “Fairport.” On April 6, 1320, Scotland’s Parliament met
here and sent to the Pope that notable letter asserting its country’s
independence and reciting, in eloquent terms, the services which
“their lord and sovereign” Robert Bruce had rendered to Scotland,


•swoivm
This Book FREE to YOU!
STOTT’S CORRESPONDENCE COLLEGE.
100 Russell Street, Melbourne.
Please send, without obligation, your Sew Free
Booklet, explaining how to Write lor Profit, at
advertised in the Sydney '‘Bulletin. ’
My Same
My Address
fc.B. 243
AGE
The Red Page
"A HERETIC’S LIFE."
Reviewer: Seldom have I been so
charmed by an Australian autobiography
as I have by Dr. Angus’s Alms for
Oblivion: Chapters from a Heretic’s
Life, published by Angus and Robert-
son.
Hamish McTavish: Mon, ’tis a gran’
wee buik. There’s juist one, or maybe
twa, wee sma’ points
Reviewer: Losh—l mean, hang it all
—surely nobody could wish to dispute
with a book so attractive in its quiet
humor, so broad in argument, so temper-
ate in criticism?
Hamish: I wmna dispute a word ye
say. I winna dispute a word the guid
doctor says. But I’d nivver hae thought
tae see in prent
Reviewer: Hamish, my lad, if you’re
going to waste my time telling me the
book is rather scrappily put together I’ll
brain you with a lightly-boiled haggis.
Does it or does it not as a whole give
an interesting account of an interesting
life and a clear picture of the author ;
and is it not therefore, by definition, a
successful autobiography?
Hamish: I tellt ye I havena a word
to say against it. There’s the wee lad
amang the .Scots of Ulster; an’ the
schuleboy wha thocht to mak his fortune
wi’ a poem entitled “The Heavenly
Jerusalem,” selling it at a bawbee in the
streets o’ Ballymena; an’ the scholar
lairning Homer at four o’clock in the
morn afore lending a hand wi’ the hair-
vest: all verra guid. An’ yet tae
think
Reviewer: You’re not going to tell
me you wish Angus and Robertson had
found a larger type for it? After all,
there’s a war on.
Hamish: I wadna compleen at a sma’
an’ threefty type at ony time, ye ken well.
But, mon, I canna mak oot
Reviewer; It occurs to me to throw
you far oot the window. Is it that, Dr.
Angus being now so much a part of
Australia, you find him a long time
getting here in the autobiography? The
chapters dealing with university life in
America and Scotland, though enlivened
with pleasing anecdotes—including the
glorious one about the absent-minded
professor who put the neighbors’ children
to bed—have not for you the strong in-
terest of the brief notes on Australia at
the end? The rambles in North Africa
and Greece, exploring the mighty ruins—
fascinating though they should be to any
man sensibly interested in the glory that
was Greece —seem a long way from
George-street?
Hamish: If ye’ll turn to page one
hunder an’ forrty-six ye’ll obsairve that
he speaks of the race of Scots as “meek.”
Reviewer: A chance phrase, possibly
ironical. I am surprised at you, Hamish.
Surely you have something worse than
that on your mind?
Hamish : That I hae. Aye, that I hae.
Dinna ye doot it.
Reviewer : Dinna —I mean don’t —
tell me you wish to contest against so
eminent a Platonist the doubtful merits
of Aristotle?
Hamish ( excitedly ): Scots wha hae wi’
Wallace bled!
Reviewer: No? Surely then you are
not involved in those theological con-
troversies about which Dr. Angus writes
so moderately and with such good taste?
You cannot be that anonymous letter-
writer who addressed him so briefly and
pointedly, “Deceiver of youth, where, wilt
<4iou spend eternity?”
Hamish {wildly): Pibroch of Donuil
Dhu!
Reviewer; If I am to conclude from
these barbarous ejaculations that you
disagree with his criticisms of the won’t-
play spirit among Australian working-
men ; of vote-catching and vote-bribing
democracy; of dictatorship by trade-
unions ; of an education system in which
“vocational training” is imagined to be
a cultivation of the soul of man —if you
disagree here you are not the man I
thought you were.
Hamish (bursting into song): And it’s
up wi’ the bonnets o' bonnie Dundee!
Reviewer : Well, then, I gasped a little
myself when Dr. Angus described the
White Australia policy as “unethical.”
But surely you noted, later on, the in-
contestable: “The only moral justification
for a White Australia would be the occu-
pation of the land by a vigorous popula-
tion from natural increase”?
Hamish : Wad I be asking ye mair
than is fair and reasonable to turrn to
page eighteen?
Reviewer: “I have since repented of
any Stuart sympathies, and regret that
Mary of Scots and Charles I were the
only Stuarts to be beheaded. Well had it
been for Scotland and for England if
every Stuart had been led at an early age
to the executioner’s block.” Well, what’s
wrong with that?
Hamish: What’s wrang, ye loon! By
the banes of my great-great-grandfeyther
wad ye tak a luik at what the mon says
on page one hunder an’ forrty-seven. He
couldna ha’ meant it, he couldna ha’
meant it!
Reviewer: “I visited Inverness to pay
my respects to Flora Macdonald and to
gaze upon that dreary field of Drum-
mossie on which my ancestor had fought
for an unworthy man and unworthy
cause.”
Hamish: Mon, that’s heresy !
Guns and Butter in China.
A glimpse of the sculptures at the
Feast of Flowers, celebrated annually on
the fifteenth day of the First Moon by
the Buddhists of Tibet:
The principal figure was I Oft. high. The
face and features were softly moulded, with
the skin harmoniously pigmented and
almost lifelike in its delicacy and smooth-
ness. And one could not help but marvel
at the patience and painstaking effort that
must have gone into the fashioning of each
single hair in the patrician eyelashes and
moustache. Even the fingernails, on hands
so artistically posed, glistened as if mani-
cured.
Flanking this principal idol were six
4ft. figures, representing the principal Bud-
dhist peoples.
A three-storeyed pyramidal structure of
possibly 20ft. in height rose from a level
above the head of the central idol. On
each of the floors was a theatre in minia-
ture, with 12in. characters fixed to turn-
table stages that presented a pageantry or
tableau as tiny figures moved in and out
of the Lilliputian building.
In the wing sections were extravagantly
decorated edifices upon whose balconies
swordsmen and spearmen engaged in
desperate battle.
There were heavy cannon in evidence
and -modern rifles in the hands of warrior
gods.
All this was wrought against a back-
ground of lavish architecture, from which
stemmed garish dahlias, asters and zinnias
in colossal proportions. Here and there
a life-sized fox or tiger poised for a spring
upon some unwary squirrel, rabbit or lizard
peeping timidly from a half-hidden nook.
A monstrous scaly snake twined itself in
and out of. the turbulence.
The description, a “scoop” in travel-
writing, comes from Harrison Forman’s
Horizon Hunter (Hale ; Angus and Rob-
ertson). All the sculptures, idol and
pageant, swordsmen, cannon, flowers and
beasts are wrought in yak butter.
This earth may be, as Wendell Willkie
discovered on his hop-step-and-jump to
China and back, “one world” ; but there
is still a certain amount of diversity about
it. Though haphazardly put together and
not especially well written, Horizon
Hunter is outstanding among recent
books on China for the reason that, in-
stead of presenting the customary propa-
gandist picture, Forman tells exactly what
he saw during a long first-hand inspec-
tion, first as a salesman supplying aero-
planes to warlords and later as a jour-
nalist.
He visits and interviews the Panchen
Lama, discusses his importance as the
“Pope” of Buddhism and, in a delightful
misuse of language, explains how this
great religious force might easily be
“sublimated” to political ends:
China still places her imperial borders
around Mongolia—on her own maps;
Russia actually rules half of it—Outer
Mongolia; while Japan realistically is
swallowing up the other half—lnner Mon-
golia. But the Mongols themselves, as de-
voutly Buddhist as the Tibetans, look to '
their religion and the Panchen Lama for
spiritual guidance. Just suppose, then, that
the Panchen Lama were to tell the nomad
faithful in Outer Mongolia that the Japan-
ese^ —generally Buddhists, like themselves —
were better fellows with whom to associate
than. the godless Russians or the heathen
Chinese officialdom. That would not only
mean that the Japanese are welcomed into
Outer Mongolia, but it would also give
them free passage right on through Mos-
lemia and Tibet and right down to the
Indian border.
At the Feast of Flowers, Forman saw
“numbers of well-clothed, well-armed
Chinese troops.” They were crack sol-
diers supplied by Chiang Kai-shek —“of
course the Panchen Lama had no choice
but to accept the military bodyguard so
‘graciously’ proffered by the Generalis-
simo.” Some months after Forman inter-
viewed him (in 1935) the Panchen Lama
died of “a mysterious bellyache”: Hori-
zon Hunter does not make a thorough
and complete examination of this, or of
amy of its themes, but is a series of in-
teresting sketches, rather like a “March
of Time” film.
Forman is equally entertaining and
equally interesting when he visits the
Moslems of Kansu province, “sandwiched
between the snows of Tibet and the
deserts of Mongolia.”
The Western world knows little of this
far north-west hinterland, with its amazing
population of nearly 15 million Mohamme-
dans. And what is even more amazing than
their religion is that they are not even
Chinese, racially considered. They are
“foreigners,” descendants of Turkis and
Arabs who migrated to China more than a
thousand years ago
Chinese authorities live in constant dread
of Moslem uprisings. . The latest occurred
in 1928....0n1y the rapid strengthening
of Chiang Kai-shek’s Central Government’s
prestige and influence and the correspond-
ing impetus given to a Pan-China United
Front against the common enemy, Japan,
with the outbreak of hostilities in 1937
halted the movement towards an autono-
mous Moslemia
Today Ma Pu-fan and his Sons of Islam
sit on the fence. The Chinese quarrel
with the Japanese is no vital concern of
theirs. Not unless their own territory is
threatened with invasion, which is unlikely
because of its geographical remoteness.
There is, however, still apprehension of
Soviet Russia in the rear....
Will Ma Pu-fan and his fanatical unbe-
liever-hating Moslems be satisfied with
autonomy under Soviet domination, or will
the Japanese offer a more tempting proposi
tion? Or, what is much more likely, will
he play the waiting game in anticipation of
the inevitable Russo-Japanese clash, and
then do business with the highest bidder?
“One world” said Wendell Willkie!
Other sections of Forman’s book deal
with the Chinese Red Army and its
various clashes with Chiang Kai-shek ;
the outbreak of the present Sino-Japanese
war ; Japanese rule in Formosa ; Soviet
Russia at the time of the Russo-German
agreement; and the blitz in Poland. The
book also contains the possibly useful
information that one approaches the
Panchen Lama with one’s tongue stuck
out —-“symbolising no evil intent in
thought or speech.”
Tschifiely About Peru.
Maybe because he once made a cele-
brated journey on horseback through
South America, A. F. Tschiffely has an
affection for horses that shows every-
where through Coricancha (Hodder and
Stoughton ; Angus and Robertson) and
leads to some of the most charming asides
in his retelling of the story of the con-
quest of the Inca Empire. Horse No. 1:
The natives proved to be so hostile that
some even came out in canoes to threaten
the Spaniards. Near a big settlement
Pizarro landed with a party, and it would
have gone very badly with him had it not
been for a curious accident. Horses did
not exist in the Americas until such were
imported from Europe. Naturally, the
Indians were amazed and frightened upon
seeing such strange animals with their
, riders, whom they took to be one terrifying
monster... .No sooner had the Spaniards
landed than the Indians prepared to attack
them, and it would have gone badly with
the white men. had not Pizarro’s horse
stumbled, in doing so unseating its armor-
clad rider. The natives were so taken
aback by this sudden partition that they
hastily retreated, thus giving the Spaniards
time to regain their ships.
Did the centaur myth originate when
some earlier primitive people, confronted
by the horseman for the first time, made
a similar error?
Horse No. 2:
One evening, cautiously approaching some
of the horses to have a closer look at them,
a group of Indians intently observed the
animals champing at their bits. Seeing that
the strange contraptions were made of
metal, the Indian chief hastily disappeared,
soon to return with a few plates made of
gold and silver, which he laid on the
ground before the horses....He wished to
befriend the dangerous beasts which ate
metal, and he thought gold and silver would
be more to their taste than the iron he
had seen them chew. Taking advantage of
the chieftain’s innocence, the Spaniards
asked an interpreter to tell him that the
horses ate a great deal of gold, of which
they were very fond. Whilst the natives
ran away to fetch a further supply of gold
plates, the cunning Spaniards took away
and hid those which had previously been
placed before the animals.
Horse No. 3:
A few years before Pizarro set foot on
Peruvian soil, Cortez, the conqueror of
Mexico, made an expedition to the interior
of the Aztecs’ land. In a mountainous
region his horse was lamed, and when
Cortez met some friendly Indians he left
the animal in their care. The natives —
who had never before seen a horse —took it
for some supernatural being, and after the
Spaniards’ departure housed it in a temple,
where they tried to feed the unfortunate
animal on savory dishes of game, and even
flowers, with the result that it soon died.
The same horse, a century later:
Two Spanish missionaries found a stone
effigy of a horse in a temple, and dis-
covered that the natives adored it as the
god of lightning and thunder. No doubt
the Indians thought the horse was respon-
sible for the thunder made by the Spaniards’
firearms.
When a harmless horse could have
such a devastating effect on the native
mind, it is not so surprising that 200
Spaniards could cope with an Inca army
of 200,000.
Tschiffely’s reason for writing this
short, straightforward but colorful
resume of Peruvian history is, he says,
to make generally known one of the
greatest stories in the world. Coricancha
(meaning “Garden of Gold”) is a popu-
lar history for readers unacquainted with
Prescott. As such, it is admirable.
Besides the charm of its incidental
anecdotes and the magnificence of the
central theme, it puts forward, without
overstressing it, an interesting moral for
the present times. The Inca Empire was
based on a single idea: the divinity of
the Emperor. The system of government
was a sort of blend of Communism and
Fascism, the people having been sapped
of initiative. When Pizarro, in what is
probably the most daring coup in history,
captured the Inca, the whole empire fell
to pieces. The “god” was a prisoner,
there was no one to give orders, the life
of the nation was destroyed at its source.
It is the weakness inherent in all dic-
tatorships.
SUNDRY SHOWS.
The Spring Exhibition of the Vic-
torian Artists’ Society has, if not a
touch of spring, at least a touch of
humor. This is Gwendolyn Grant’s large
canvas “Fantasy,” in which a dusky
maiden in the altogether sits on a tropic
island while down the pathway of the
sun a mighty battle fleet approaches. It
isn’t given in the pictorial statement
whether the naked Tondeleyo has fas-
cinated the warships or the jack tars fas-
cinated the Tondeleyo. Alan Moore
offers a pleasing “Fitzroy Playground”
and John Heath has a fine landscape im-
pression in “Shorham.” In the sculpture
division Annemarie House stands out with
the head of a young man.
“F.S.” is puzzled:
In a review of a show by Epstein, McCance,
the English art critic, once said: “In a free
democracy there are four possible attitudes to a
work of art —you do not understand it but
like it all the same; you do not understand it
and do not like it; you understand it and like
it; or you understand it and don’t like it.”
He omitted the fifth and the most important —
you don’t understand it but think you do;
and if you like it you think it must be good,
and if you dislike it you think it is awful.
This is the prevailing attitude towards “modern-
ist” art in Melbourne. A few weeks ago there
was a show of “contemporaries” at the
Athenaeum. It was followed by another show
by another society of “contemporaries.” The
second was a secession from the first led by
George Bell, or else the first was a secession
from George Bell led by somebody else. It
doesn’t matter, because the work in each case
is as like as peas out of a pod, and why one
seceded from the other is one of the mysteries
of art politics. The interesting thing, however,
is that when Mr. Bell first started his move-
ment the work of his disciples was viewed by
the general public with the utmost horror. Now
the same g.p. regards it with complete approval
and a great newspaper magnate can be got to
perform the ritual of opening the exhibition.
Yet the pictures haven’t changed, and a thing
cannot both be and not be, by the law of con-
tradiction. If they were bad then they can t
be good now, and if they were good then they
can’t be bad now. It is all very puzzling
almost as puzzling as some of the pictures—
and it reminds me of my maternal grand-
mother, who had a horror of modern dancing
and thought it was luring the young people to
the devil. Ten years later, when it had become
the fashion, she used to say “It’s nice to see
the young people enjoying themselves,” and she
even had a go at it herself. Several of the
exhibitors in the 1943 show of the Melbourne
Contemporary Artists used to be orthodox
painters. Now they are almost as artistically
giddy as my grandmother became, God bless
her!
“S.T.S.”: To the National Gallery of
Adelaide (which has long held two of his
finest works, “Australia Felix” and the
English riverside “Blue and Gold”)
Arthur Streeton presented not long before
his death two sketchbooks—one of Aus-
tralian subjects, one of Venice —and two
oil paintings, a Westminster of his Eng-
lish period 30 years back, and an Amiens
by mixed moonlight and searchlight,
done when he was an official war artist.
The gallery has recently bought Fred
McCubbin’s “Stone-crusher,” a careful
composition, in his later manner, from
quarry sketches.
At the talkies:
In the screen version of James Hilton’s
“Random Harvest” (Sydney St. James)—
wherein a returned soldier of the last war falls
in love with his own wife: a whimsy caused
by loss of memory —it’s impossible to keep
the wife’s identity a secret from the audience.
Yet, without the mechanical surprise, the film
is probably more dramatic than the novel,
becoming more of a human document and less
of a literary stunt. Greer Garson and Ronald
Colman give fine portrayals of the principals.
James Hilton also had a hand, in collabora-
tion with Frederick Lonsdale and others, in
fashioning another war-time drama, “Forever
and a Day” (Century). This is the very human
story of a house and the families who inhabited
it and it aptly epitomises the English character.
Built by a blunt old admiral who sailed with
Nelson, the house is finally wrecked in the
blitz A galaxy of famous English and Ameri-
can stage and screen personalities give their
S£ one out of the bag; “I Walked
with a Zombie” (Hoyts’ theatres), a film deal-
ing with voodooism in the Caribbean, directed
with great photographic artistry by Jaques
Tournier.


“TRUTH IN ADVERTISING”
“THE SENIOR STORE”
ANTHONY HORDERNS’
120th Year of Service
' I I
Clht
m
&
,S,'S 1“
“TO
> JA
-w
H
i 1 -I
I I
U
A
fc
«lfm
I
M-?k:
Sftl
•'W' A
f ——V
AND ITS SERVICE
■m
Isf.
5&
> / /
¥ r
■:^r
Over a period of many years, our Fine Art Gallery has
built up for itself a considerable reputation. It has sold
antiques, paintings, etchings, framed pictures, colour
prints, old china, old glass, old silver, Sheffield plate and
. many other delightful objets Fart et de vertu.
\
Its activities include the purchase and sale of more
MODERN GOODS, if of high class, and in good order
and condition, such as the following:-
CHINA AND GLASSWARE
GRANDFATHER CLOCKS AND
OTHER TIMEPIECES
ELECTROPLATE AND CUTLERY
PICTURES
BRIC-A-BRAC
STANDARD AND TABLE LAMPS
HIGH CLASS FURNITURE
ORIENTAL AND. VALUABLE CARPETS,
RUGS AND OTHER ARTICLES
Anthony Horderns’ invite the public
to take advantage of the service given
by their Fine Art Gallery. Its
traditional high standard is their
guarantee of satisfaction
• FINE ART GALLERY-
FOURTH FLOOR.
1C
*
L
, A
in
D
r\
FAMOUS LOW-PRICES
PHONE: M 2401 (DAY AND NIGHT)


SUNDAY WITH THE V.D.C
By E. O. SCHLUNKE.
ON Sun4gy morning Charlie put on
his khaki tunic and hat (all the
uniform which had, so far, been
issued to him), anticipating a very
agreeable day in town with his friends of
the V.D.C. As he was leaving the house
Mrs. Charlie called him into the kitchen
and indicated a pile of large parcels on
the table.
“The box of eggs and the four pounds
of butter are to go to, Elda, who will
deliver them on Monday; the vegetables
are for, Mee Ling (collect £1 ss. from
him); the pair of dressed turkeys are for
the Royal Hotel (I’ll collect that money
myself)—and don’t forget any of the
things on this list.”
Charlie looked at the parcels and the
list, and his countenance fell. Mrs.
Charlie was very exacting about the
manner in which her errands were car-
ried out, and he could see himself scurry-
ing about the town with harassed brows
in the free time while his mates were en-
joying themselves.
“All right,” he said unhappily.
He began to hustle, hoping to get most
of the jobs done before the parade began,
but he lost some time starting his old car.
He stopped at Cook’s gate and waited
for him, and had to ask him to push the
car to start it again.
“Why in blazes don’t you buy a new
battery?” Cook’ panted when at length
he subsided in the car. “I’m, tired of this
pushing business.”
“Not until the three years are. up,”
Charlie said firmly. “Abel said it would
last that long, and by the heck I’m not
going to let him sell me another before
that.”
WHEN they reached town the parade
was falling in, so Charlie had to
postpone delivering his parcels.
“Blast Abel and his crook batteries!”
he said. “He’s made us late.”
Abel arrived a few moments later and
fell in beside them. Charlie congratu-
lated him on having acquired a complete
uniform and complimented him on his
appearance.
Abel smiled weakly; he was decidedly
suspicious of any reference to his uni-
form. He and a few others who thought
they had “pull” had made a trip to the
district headquarters and collected their
uniforms in the early days when the
green ones were being issued ; now that
the other men were receiving khaki uni-
forms he was not happy about it, particu-
larly as his was a bad fit and showed up
his corpulent figure,
Moreover, there was the hat incident.
He had complained to the Q.M. that the
chin-strap of his hat hung behind his
ears. The next one he tried had the same
fault. The Q.M. suggested that he was
putting them on back to front, but revers-
ing made no difference. Then the Q.M.
came along with a tape measure and dis-
covered that Abel’s ears were an inch
further forward than normal.
THE morning’s exercise- consisted of an
attack by one section on a hilltop
which was defended by the other.
To his disgust Abel (with Charlie and
Cook) was drafted into the attackers.
They were expected to creep forward un-
seen over ground which had very little
cover.
Usually when this sort of misfortune
happened to Abel he allowed the tide of
1 attle to flow ahead of him while he
ambled along at his ease, unobserved, in
the rear. He began to drop back, but
C lie called out, loud enough for the
se. c ,eant to hear:
“Come on, Abel! No dodging!”
The section kept close to Abel and
urged him on with good advice.
They set an example of conscientious
training, lying right down on their
stomachs and wriggling painstakingly
from bush to bush. They warned Abel
every time he exposed himself to enemy
fire —which was fairly often because,
owing to the position of his waistline,
Abel could get little lower than a creep-
ing-on-hands-and-knees position.
Quite a number of men were enter-
tained by the little sideshow; they did
not let up even when Abel became
annoyed.
When the whistle blew for the final
charge the section got him running well,
but he couldn’t last the distance. They
left him behind then, and reported him
as a’ casualty to their officer. /
The attackers had captured and con-
solidated the position before Abel
appeared. He was greeted with facetious
cheers.
For the march back to town, Abel fell
in as far from Charlie and Cook as he
could.
A FTER lunch Charlie decided to do
Mrs. Charlie’s errands, but, although
he had half a platoon of V.D.Cs. to push
his car, it refused to start. A mechanic
from among them had a look at his
battery.
“Stone, motherless dead!” he declared.
“You’ll have to persuade Abel to open
his shop and sell you a new one.”
Charlie muttered to Cook “That’s a bit
awkward; but I suppose Abel will be a
sport.”
He put it to Abel when they were re-
assembling for the afternoon parade.
But Abel was decidedly hostile.
“I’d do it for anyone else,” Abel said
feelingly,
“Ah, come on, old fellow,” Charlie
wheedled. “No bad feelings. It was
only a joke. But if you don’t let us have
a battery Cook and I will have to walk
home ten miles.”
“That,” said Abel, looking a bit
happier, “would amuse me very much.
You can’t blame me if I have my little
joke too.”
They argued with him until the whistle
blew, without making any impression.
A number of the men who had laughed
at Abel in the morning were standing by ;
they laughed even more at Cook and
Charlie.
The unit was fallen-in and marched to
the rifle range for a shoot. Charlie was
beginning to feel a bit depressed.
“At least,” he said to Cook, “I might
get a chance to do some of the wife’s
errands on foot while waiting for my
turn to shoot.”
But he was frustrated again. He and
Cook were detailed for duty as markers
in the pit. Down there they discussed
their problems in the intervals between
hauling the target up and down. They
were interrupted by a signaller who was
operating a home-made telegraph sys-
tem connected with his chief at the
butts.
HE removed his headphones and said
to them with a grin:
“Abel is the next shooter. Everyone
is running for cover.”
“We’re safe, anyhow,” said Charlie.
“We’re near the target.”
The signaller clamped his ’phones over
his ears again and became absorbed in
his peculiar business of dots and dashes.
“The only* thing we can do,” said
Charlie, “is to get one of Abel’s batteries
by hook or crook,”
'“No hope. Think of a better plan,”
Cook advised him.
“We’ll have to work him into a good
mood somehow,” Charlie looked round
worriedly, then his face brightened.
“Look, Cookie, let’s give him a thump-
ing good score for once,”
Cook liked the idea. He remembered
how “a real tightwad shouted for the
mob twice” after achieving an un-
expectedly high score, They decided to
do it,
Abel’s first bullet knocked up dust from
the mound high above the target,
can’t do anything about that,”
Charlie said, “Everybody could see
where that went/ 5
The next bullet didn’t hit the mound
at all, but went whining overhead.
“We can’t do anything about that,
either,” Cook said sadly.
The third struck the mound slightly
above the target. Charlie was restive •
nearly half of Abel’s had gone, He
risked signalling an “outer,” The next
bullet hit a little to one side of the
target, Charlie recorded a f ‘bull,”
f That will make Abel smile,” he said,
*T hope it’s only Abel who smiles,”
Cook commented.
The next shot was also to the side, but
further away. Charlie was satisfied to
j-ecord an “inner,” The next hit was too
far from the other side to risk more than
an
“Only one to go,” said Charlie, “and
he*still hasn’t a very good score.”
They heard the report of the last shot;
it didn’t sound quite as sharp as the rest.
They neither saw nor heard where the
bullet went.
“If we don’t know where it went,
neither does anyone else,” said, Charlie,
and recorded another bull’s-eye. “That
makes a score of eighteen; he never
got more than five or six before.
Gad, I wish I could get near him now.
He’ll be in a great mood.”
THE next shooter followed in the
normal manner, which indicated that
their deception had been successful. The
faces of the relieving men appeared at
the entrance' of the pit as soon as the
shooterffinished. There were broad grins
on their faces.
“What about giving us some?” said the
first to enter.
“Some what?” Charlie asked inno-
cently.
“Plonk,” said the other. “Don’t tell
us you haven’t got a gallon of it here.”
Charlie tried to bluff.
“Of course you fellows 500 yards away
would know more about where the shots
go than us down here.”
The men were not impressed.
“You might have got away with most
of it, although the C.O. was look-
ing through the telescope and swearing
that you’d both gone mad. But when we
all saw the last shot hit the ground half-,
way to the target, and you signalled a
bull’s-eye, there was the biggest laugh
that ever went up on a rifle range.”
Both men laughed heartily again, but
Charlie and Cook did not join in.
“Poor old Abel! ” said one of the men.
“He was absolutely delighted to be scor-
ing so well, until the last shot showed
that you were making a fool of him.
Then he was so ashamed of himself that
he sneaked away without waiting for
the dismissal.”
He added: “It might be a good idea
for you blokes to do the same.”
They recognised the soundness of the
advice. Charlie was so flurried that he
was nearly hit by a bullet through climb-
ing out of the pit before hoisting the red
flag.
‘ ‘ A BEL will want to cut our, throats
now,” he said. “We’ll never get a
battery out of him.”
“I know a lad who works in Abel’s
shop,” Cook suggested helpfully. “Per-
haps we can persuade him to help us.”
They took a circuitous route back to
the town, and by a stroke of luck found
the youth in the street.
“Nope,” he said in answer to their
inquiries. “He doesn’t let me have no
key; but I’ll tell y’ what. The bat-
teries are in the bulk shed at the back
of the store. If you can’t find him you
can get in through the back window
where a motor-lorry broke it and help
yourselves. You can pay me, and I’ll
tell him in the morning.”
In the circumstances the hazards
appeared too’many and too formidable,
so they reluctantly turned down the pro-
posal. But after they’d had half a dozen
of Mrs, Kelly’s “coffee royals” they felt
that they could deal with any difficul-
ties which might arise, and decided to
take the risk.
They pushed Charlie’s car into the lane
beside the shed and duly helped them-
selves to a battery. They were fitting
it into the car whep Abel arrived. He
looked as if he wasn’t surprised at any-
thing they might do.
Charlie felt that his worst nightmare
had come true, The hot mm failed en-
tirely •' the confidence left him and all
that remained was a clammy perspiration.
He tried to explain, but soon realised that
something more than explanations was
required. He looked around desperately
and saw Mrs. Charlie’s parcels in the
back of the car,
“Look what we have here for you!”
he said with forced heartiness. “A pair
of dressed turkeys. Here, take them.”
Abel took them. He was very partial
to turkey.
“This,” said Charlie, “is a box of eggs.
Here, take them.”
Abel took them, too • he also accepted
the vegetables and the butter.
“Now,” said Charlie, as he edged to-
wards the driver’s seat, “I think you will
call the matter settled.”
He started the engine. «Abel gave a
yell of protest, but he was too heavily
laden with parcels to act quickly. Charlie
thought of nothing but escape. He
shouted to Cook, jerked away to a flying
start and headed for the open country
as fast as the old car could travel;
It was not until they were nearly home
that Charlie remembered Mrs. Charlie’s
list. It was, however, a mere detail.
Various Verse
Eternity.
This moment chiselled out in stone
Or graven on the plate of rhyme
Would seem more permanent than bone,
An asset in the vault of time.
But when this stone is desert sand.
The key of this dead language lost—
Perdurable, this momeht’s brand
On living bone will be embossed.
R.A.A.F.
DAVIE CAMPBELL.
Young Girl at a Window.
Lift your hand to the window latch:.
Sighing, turn and move away.
More than mortal swords are crossed
On thresholds at the end of day;
The fading air is stained with red
Since Time was killed and now lies dead,
Or Time was lost. But someone saw
Though nobody spoke and nobody will
While in the clock against the wall
The guiltless minute hand is still;
The watchful room, the breathless light
Be hosts to you this final night.
Over the gently-turning hills
Travel a journey with your eyes
In forward footsteps, chance assault —
This way the map of living lies.
And this the journey you must go
Through grass and sheaves and, lastly, snow.
N.S.W.
ROSEMARY DOBSON.
The Watch of Love.
[ say again I love you, child, and listen
how the words echo multiplied in my mind;
watch how the slow tears on your lashes glisten
and wonder why, sleeping, you should weep.
Body to body, under the firelit ceiling
we are not far apart, I bending over you
to mark how all my thought and sense and feeling
are gathered in your crouched, heavy limbs —
and yet, it seems, surrendered up again
by your loose open hand in its hollow shadow.
Is it surrender, or release from the pain
of love and doubt, that got this giving gesture,
got the bright tears, aye, sucked them out of
sleep?
Stooped over you, so near, I yet cannot
answer
the moment’s riddle. Look, *l, too, would weep
for all our meetings, our days, and our partings
if you had not already had my tears,
along with the rest I had, to comfort you.
Sleep on. There’s nothing the given heart bears
so gladly as love’s sleep in the watch of love.
I will smooth your hair, cover your hand,
dry your still eyes, hold you and comfort
your sleep,
because you cradle all I understand
of life; so sleep, and dream and weep no
more.
N.S.W.
KENNETH MACKENZIE.
October Reverie.
The great black chimney of night is sooted with
rain;
I crouch by the empty hearth with only the'
wind
To jog my elbow and gossip of life and pain—
Of grass reborn and the tilting of little blind
Sycamore buds that faith will break into leaves.
There are mothering ewes in the paddocks, and
plovers nesting;
And swallows are back in their places under the
eaves. *
I can remember snow-peaks of orchard trees;
I saw them yesterday with the hawk sun rest-
ing »
His young plumes goldenly among their ice;
Down precipices of perfume went the bees,
Sounding their insect thunder where silver, deep
Crevasses spawned pale honeys and the faint
spice
Of primrose pollens. I can remember the cheep
Of sparrows talking their housing problems
over,
Looking out sites in the hedges, selecting straws
Down in the pig-pens like women who breath-
lessly hover
Over the remnant counters at bargain sales —
Escaping a while from themselves and the
worries of wars.
I crouch by the empty hearth and the rain-soot
scales
From the midnight bricks and clings to my face
and hands;
The sparks of the stars are lost, and the log
of the moon
Is blackened by charcoal and cold in the airs
of spring.
I can remember the moonlight flooding the lands
Of the paddocks with lambent platinum, filling
the brown
Long lines with a creeping wet when my fingers
weje soon
Itching to curl themselves to the shovel handle
And open wide water-furrows, and hear them
• sing .
With the sharp bright tongues of leaping lunar
rains.
“Listen,” the wind cries, “listen; when I went
down
The gully last night I tried to blow out the
candle • . .
Of gorse burning there and guttering in hot
gleams; . ,
I blew for an hour and merely got pricked
for my pains!”
“Mischievous'devil! ” say I, and return to my
dreams.
How many springs ago since I rode on horse-
Down the scrub trails where the wild white lilac
flashes
The milk of its flesh to lure you deeper and
deeper, „ . .
Closing the way behind you until the track
Thins and is lost, and the whip of adventure
lashes
Your blood to a slow enchantment and, drawing
You f turn and stare this way and that like an
enthralled sleeper
Who looks on God’s image before he wakens
again.
TASMANIA.
NORMA L. DAVIS.


The Bulletin
Vol. 64.— N0. 3322.
Wednesday, October 13, 1943.
VISITOR FOR FRA BENITO!
“After his arrest Mussolini sent a letter to his sister saying he proposed to dedicate the rest of his life to the Church.”- Badoglio.


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper
“Australia for the White Man”
Directors:
H. K. Prior J. E. Webb
P. H. Prior David Adams
HEAD OFFICE: 252 George Street, Sydney:
Box 252IBB; ’Phone 87971
Victoria: Newspaper House, 247-249 Collins
Street, Melbourne.
Queensland: 239 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
Westralia : 33 Barrack Street, Perth.
New Zealand: Nathan’s Buildings (opp
G.P.0.), Wellington.
London : 1 Hare Place, 47 Fleet Street.
London, E.C.4.
SYSTEM AND RACE.
One of the great faults of this generation
has been to make far too much of sys-
tems and far too little of race. The war
itself is represented as a struggle between
systems, an “ideological’? war. Though
the Fascist leader is a despised fugitive
and his system fell to’pieces in a flight,
Australians, engaged in a war for survival,
are still urged to “fight Fascism” —this
by persons who do all their fighting with
jaws and fountain-pens.
Incomparably wiser in his generation
was the man who rose from the state of
an impecunious London dandy, a de-
spised I ewish adventurer, to become the
Prime Minister who added the star of
Indian empire to the British Crown. In
one of his novels, unhappily unread nowa-
days, there is a discussion on civilisation,
which a member of Parliament, “a social
favorite, amusing and clever,” defines as
“the progressive development of the'
faculties of man.” A Jewish character,
half-Disraeli and half-Rothschild, replies:
Yes, but what is progressive development,
and what are the faculties of man? If de-
velopment be progressive, how do you
account for the state of Italy? Has the de-
velopment of Western Asia been progres-
sive? Is China progressive, the most ancient
and numerous of existing societies? Is
Europe itself progressive? Is Spain a tithe
as great as she was? Is Germany as great
as when she invented printing, as she was
under the rule of Charles V? France her-
self laments her relative inferiority to the
past. But England flourishes.
It might have been written yesterday in-
stead of a century ago. And there is more:
Is it what you call civilisation that makes
England flourish? Is it the universal de-
velopment of the faculties of man that has
rendered an island, almost unknown to the
ancients, the arbiter of the world? Clearly
not. It is her inhabitants that have done
this; it is an affair of race. A Saxon
race, protected by an insular position, has
stamped its diligent and methodic charac-
ter on the century. All is race; there is no
other truth, because it includes all others.
What is individual character but the per-
sonification of race, its perfection and
choice exemplar?
Disraeli was born when Napoleon was
bidding for the mastery of Europe. Had
he been spared to see Hitler essay that
role, Dunkirk and the Battle of Britain,
which astonished the world that did not
know the English, would not have aston-
ished him. And he would no more have
attributed the second Russian recovery
from military disaster to strength im-
parted by Communism than he attributed
the first Russian recovery from military
disaster to strength imparted by Czarism.
To him it would have been “an affair of
race.”
And that is true also of the collapse of
Italy. It was a failure of racial stamina.
After the last war, mainly through the
efforts and with the sanction of its allies,
Italy regained all the Italian-speaking
parts of the Austrian empire, added to
its African colonies and was confirmed
in its possession of the Dodecanese. Be-
traying the League, it invaded Abyssinia
and Albania, and got away with both.
Its Fascist system seemed settled and
durable, and was supposed to have de-
rived additional strength from being tied
to the monarchy. Its dictator was hailed
as a great man by Mr. Churchill himself
and by many lesser authorities. He
boasted of his “eight million bayonets,”
and he certainly possessed all the appa-
ratus of great military power. But one
false step, one cowardly and treacherous
break with the historic and fruitful foreign
policy of the country, proved ..itai.
In the very first campaign, against
forces almost ludicrously inferior in
everything but fighting quality, the mili-
tary faqade began to crumble and had to
be propped up by the Nazis. Adversity
in war, a grim test of greatness, neither
the dictator nor his subjects could stand.
With the African empire “torn to tatters,”
Sicily lost, Sardinia doomed and the
mainland about to be invaded, Musso-
lini was ready to throw up the sponge.
Overawed by Hitler, he was dismissed by
the King, and was only saved from being
handed over to his enemies for safe-keep-
ing and eventual trial as a war criminal
by a descent of German parachute troops,
his jailers—as abject in that capacity as
when he strutted the stage, though not
more so than some of the men who
turned on him —bolting. And now his
one ghastly gift to his stricken country,
of which the instruments of his partner
in crime are completing the ruin, is a
proclaimed civil war.
Inglorious as Italy’s performances
•were, it was a useful ally to Germany.
For three years and three months it com-
pelled the British Empire to divide forces
which might otherwise have been con-
centrated against Hitler, and by holding
down Greeks and Yugoslavs and occu-
pied parts of France and Russia it re-
leased hundreds of thousands of German
troops for active operations. And by
denying full control of the Mediterranean
to the British,-even the fleet that never
fought, except in isolated combats —not
always contemptible, nor was the showing
of some Italian front-line troops without
credit —was of priceless service to Hitler.
As co-belligerents of the allies the
Badoglio Italians don’t seen? likely to be
much of an asset to them or much of an
encumbrance to the still undefeated man
of blood. On the contrary, he is making
a desert of their unfortunate country,
partly to hold the other satellite nations
in check by showing that "the same
horrors or worse will happen to them if
they turn it in, partly to keep the war
away from his country and partly to
increase the political and military diffi-
culties of the Western democracies.
The military difficulties can and will
be surmounted, but the political difficul-
ties have been intensified. The French
National Committee of Liberation, for
once apparently unanimous, has objected
to Badoglio’s Italy being granted co-
belligerent status ; and the feelings of the
French at having had to put up with
Italians as garrison troops, perhaps shout-
ing “Nice! Corsica! Tunisia!” - for
diversion, can well be understood. Even
bitterer must be the feelings of Greeks
and southern Slavs, with their grim
stories of crimes unavenged. And besides
Badoglio’s Italy there is a Communist
Italy. Indeed there are Cominunist
movements in all the countries into
which Italians were drafted as con-
querors by grace of Hitler, and they are
sure of powerful support for their claims.
Italy’s post-war future looks black. Its
only hope lies in a fairly swift and com-
plete Anglo-American victory, the neces-
sity for which has been increased by the
practical certainty that the Germans will
try to hang on to the Adriatic ports that
the Austrians had—particularly Pola and
Trieste —which may have been one of
the motives that prompted the retreat
to the Dnieper. But, the Germans
defeated and their country occupied,
Italy may become the most baffling mem-
ber of the family of problem children.
With its wrecked cities and industries
and its shattered finances the country will
be too poor to accommodate a popu-
lation which is virtually as large
as that of the United Kfngdom, and it
won’t be permitted to resort again to the
dictatorial “remedy” for unemployment
—putting idle young men in the armed
forces. Armed forces there will be none,
except such as will be required to pre-
serve internal order. Neither will there
be any conquests or colonies, except per-
haps scraps of East Africa, not too far
from protecting British—there would be
first-class massacres of Italians if they
were allowed to return to Cyrenaica
(which has .been promised to the Senussi
Arabs), Albania, “annexed” , parts of
Yugoslavia and the Dodecanese. Nor
will any member of the British Com-
monwealth accept Italians as immigrants,
though the U.S.A., where the Italian
vote is important, may take a few. There
is a bleak prospect that the liberators will
have to reckon with claims that Italian
depredations should be paid for with
cessions of or concessions in Italy itself.
Though, every notable Australian who
has come out against Communism, from
Mr. Menzies down, has been branded as
a Fascist by knaves and fools, Fascism
never made the slightest appeal to Aus-
tralians. Its only English-speaking con-
verts shot up in Britain, where Mosley
and his Blackshirts had a brief season
of notoriety, welcomed for their idiotic
posturings by newspaper photographers
and comic writers stuck for subjects, and
hailed with delight by a population whose
sense of humor has been renowned in all
ages. They must be the sickest lot of
Britons in the world today.
The other foreign system in which so
many Britons and Australians see attrac-
tions is neither mirthful itself nor the
cause of mirth in others. In the form in
which it is offered, with threats, to Eng-
lish-speaking peoples it is deadly dull,
and so are its agents and votaries, though
not less dangerous for that.
The best system for us —and that goes
for all English-speaking peoples—is the
one under which we grew up, and which
is elastic enough to stand all strains anti
meet all requirements: the system of
Parliamentary government and free enter-
prise, each with its checks and balances,
which can be altered when alteration is
necessary. It is the best system for us
because, instead of being invented by
doctrinaires and imposed by force, it
grew naturally out of the genius of the
race —a race with a deep sense of justice,
human dignity and rights, traditionally
opposed to tyrants, great and small, and
with immense energy and talent for
mechanical invention. It has served us
well in peace and war, and will serve us
better still when foreign and internal
enemies are overcome. In the history of
war there has been nothing greater than
the achievement of Britain, the home of
Parliamentary government and free enter-
prise, nor any more chivalrous chapter
than the sending of immense quantities of
war materials to Russia, at cruel cost in
men and ships—to Russia, with its vast
population, more than four times that of
Britain, and its prodigious material re-
sources —when the Britons were short of
nearly everything but courage and coal,
and were bleeding from many wounds.
V.D.C. and N.E.S.
As, Minister for the Army, Mr. Forde
gave out on September 30 that the V.D C.
had “remained .steady at 95,000 during
the last six months.” Though Mr. Forde
should know, members* of the V.D.C.
question the figure with a blend of snorts
and loud laughter. They say it possibly
is paper strength; that if the parade
figure for six months back was 90,000,
then present parade strength is nothing
like that number.
As in the N.E.S., there has been a
noticeable falling-off in attendances ever
since Mr. Curtin made his first “no-
invasion” statement. It became worse
after Mr, Curtin subsequently said that
risk of attack from an aircraft-carrier
was “out of the question.” The rosy
pre-election optimism had its effect, too,
and other doings on the home front are
reflected as well.
In the V.D.C., the falling-off in parade
attendance reached such a figure after the
Prime Minister’s first burst of optimism
that General Blarney issued a V.D.C.
“battle order,” a printed copy of which
was handed to every member. It made
out as strong a case as can be made out
for the continuance of the V.D.C. at full
strength. ’General Blarney stated that he
had been “somewhat concerned” to hear
that members of the V.D.C. were raising
the question of whether the Prime Minis-
ter’s statement concerning “the safety of
Australia from invasion” implied that
they could relax their efforts. The C.-
in-C. said that “the comparative state of
safety which now exists” could remain
“only while we have and maintain ade-
quate forces in this country to preserve
it”—a truth which goes for the far
future as well as for the present.
General Blarney also pointed out that,
while threat of invasion had been re-
duced, “the uncertainty of war and its
surprises are such that the threat may
come again” and “we must allow none
of our essential defence measures to de-
teriorate through a false and self-satisfy-
ing sense of safety.” Therefore, he added,
“the purpose and responsibility of the
V.D.C. remain as important as ever,”
but he suggested that men working long
hours “in agriculture and industry”
should be “eased up as much as possible
in their actual military training as soon
as they have reached a satisfactory stand-
ard,” with further training only “suffi-
cient to maintain that standard.”
In view of what is happening in both
V.D.C. and .N.E.S., that last suggestion
should be acted on. It should, however,
not be restricted to any special class of
workers. Pretty well all members of
both organisations work hard these days,
and, whether they are in “agriculture
and essential industry” or other jobs,
they are war-exempt taxpayers working
on six days a week to keep themselves
and in most cases their families, and to
both themselves and their families the
giving up of Saturdays or Sundays and a
week-night can represent considerable in-
convenience. Only a small percentage of
them are in either organisation merely
because they like that sort of thing. Many
do not like it at all, and do it only from
a sense of duty and loyalty. This form
of inspiration takes retaining in the face
of the optimism which, coming down
from Mr. Curtin and others in high places,
is now general, and also in face of other
aspects of the home front.
Many who fail to turn up at parades
in city units may be found working on
the wharves, which they consider, with
fair reason, every bit as much an essen-
tial service as putting in the day doing
training that many of them have done
over and over for anything up to three
years. There is a financial side to it. As
much can be earned working on a wharf
on one Sunday as an A.I.F. infantry-
man fighting in the front line, daily risk-
ing his life and undergoing indescribable
hardship, earns in a fortnight.
Old Diggers, in particular, look on this
anomaly with growing cynicism. To them
it is merely another signpost to the worst
side of Australia’s war-waging setup. As
a move towards correcting the vicious
scheme of things under which a* home-
front cook can earn more than a front-
line brigadier, and a wharfie, while he
cares to work, can earn more than a
major-general, the sensible suggestion has
been made that front-line soldiers should
receive a bonus for every day they are in
action. More will possibly be heard of
this at the R.S.L. Congress in Hobart
next month. It is a suggestion that would
have the support of every Digger, from the
front line to the most secure home base.
Another feature of the home front
which is helping to spread cynicism and,
with it, the rot in the V.D.C. and
N.E.S. is the steady series of strikes,
mostly on trivial, frivolous and ridiculous
pretexts, and the inability or reluctance
of the Government to do anything about
it. The feeling of many a member of
these organisations as to this is that
there are two Australias—one doing its
bit in the war earnestly and continu-
ously, while the other, secure in the safety
that effort provides, and coddled by the
Government, is using the war wholly for
its own advancement and profit. In an
organisation like either the V.D.C. or
N.E.S., employed wholly on the home
front, the feeling grows among members
that that other Australia is being aided
and abetted at their expense ; that the
safer their own unpaid contribution and
that of the fighting forces help to make
Australia, the more the spongers on the
war effort will benefit.
The V.D.C. is given one very sound
reason as to why it should carry on —
that by its existence it is releasing for the
front young and fit men who would other-
wise have to be kept back as a home-
defence force. How sound this is will be
realised if ever there is a serious reverse
in .the fighting in the north and every
available man has to be rushed in to pre-
vent defeat. There is a long and hard
way to go yet before that possibility can
be ruled out. A naval disaster could also
alter the whole position, which, just now,
is fairly favorable ; and, for all the ships
it has lost, Japan is still one of the strong-
est of naval Powers. Such a happening
would make a great difference both for
the V.D.C. and the N.E.S.
Even so, these and other reasons
remain not always so easy for indi-
vidual members of these organisations to
accept. The V.D.C. member sees that
many of those he is supposed to be re-
leasing are prevented by the hopscotch
map boundaries from serving beyond
fixed lines. Also he sees called-up jockeys
and others not only kept from forward
area service, but kept in big cities so that
they can ride, fight or play football to
entertain home-fronters. One statement
made by the Prime Minister could even
have been construed as meaning that the
militia will be used mostly as base and
occupation troops.
All this makes it decidedly hard for
the V.D.C. man to find a personal justi-
fication for his service, particularly, in the
older units, for doing the same sort of
training over and over, of course without
reward other than his conscience may
give him.
Another cause of the increasing cyni-
cism and lessening enthusiasm is the recent
reintroduction of racing on every Satur-
day, this being accepted by V.D.C. and
N.E.S. members as confirmation of the
Government’s optimism regarding the
whole war outlook. Yet another apparent
confirmation of this is the removing of
air-raid protection, on the grounds, as
stated by N. S. Wales N.E.S. Minister
Heffron, that “the Federal authorities
should view the position realistically, in
the light of the present war position,”
and that “an unnecessary and useless re-
striction should not be persisted in.”
In the face of these and other similar
happenings, the only justifications N.E.S.
and V.D.C. members can find are General
Blarney’s, sound enough exhortation and
the feeling that the optimists might be
wrong. That these are not enough is posi-
tively proved by the falling off in both
V.D.C. and N.E.S. Hence the feeling
growing among individual members —
especially in the N.E.S., but to a con-
siderable extent in the V.D.C., too —that
they have outlived their usefulness.
Before the rot goes any further —with
men Who have, without any question,
done a very fine service to their country
in both organisations now staying away
somewhat guiltily and therefore with a
sense of grudge and grievance—a good
idea might be the introduction of an
N.E.S. and a V.D.C. reserve. On it could
go any member who wished to do so, and
who could pass a fair efficiency test, with,
perhaps, a periodical refresher course.
All members of these organisations
went in, in the first place, to serve their
country as best they could. If the need
had arisen they would have fought on
the beaches and in the streets and done
heroic service in air raids. The need did
not arise, and the feeling engendered
among them by many causes is that it
now never will. If this is so, there can
be nothing against reserve establishments
for both. This would hold their organi-
sations in being, instead of allowing them
to disintegrate. With this arrangement
every member could be on call at shoit
notice, and members so placed would be
able to retain their original inspiration
of being there ready to serve if needed.


PLAIN ENGLISH
Votes and a Responsibility.
The Chief Electoral Officer has- worked
it out that 4,127,076 effective votes were
east at the Commonwealth elections and
that Labor got 2,165,747, 53 per cent.
The U.A.P.’s share was 929,533 (22 per
cent.) and that of the. Country party
445,883 (11 per cent.); Independents
(374,836), One Party for Australia
(87,112), Communists (81,816) and
Liberal-Democrats (42,149, confined to
N. S. Wales) shared the rest.
Relatively as well as actually, Labor
polled best in N. S. Wales. It got 58 per
cent, of the votes in the State with
roughly two-fifths of the electoral popu-
lation, which .elected three Labor Sena-
tors with prodigious majorities and 21
of the 49 Labor Ms.H.R. Compared
with 1930 election figures, Labor’s per-
centage increase in N. S. Wales was
3 per cent., whereas the U.A.P. declined
from 28 per cent, to 17 per cent, and
the Country party from 12 per cent, to
9 per cent. In South Australia Labor
put on 14 per cent. (41 per cent, to
55 per cent.) and in Westralia 17 per cent.
(38 per cent, to 55 per cent.) at the
expense of the Opposition parties. It
won all the Westralian and South Aus-
tralian seats, except Barker (S.A.).
Though it did well in country electorates,
it is now predominantly a city party.
Considering that Mr. Curtin gave the
number of persons in uniform as 820,000,
and that an unspecified number of ballot
papers from Civil Construction Corps
camps were included as service votes, the
number of votes thus classified, 403,831,
is surprisingly small. Either a great many
service men did not get ballot papers or
did not exercise the franchise. Of those
counted 230,351 (57 per cent.) went to
Labor candidates. The percentage was
no doubt swelled by militia and C.C.C.
votes, the latter being practically all
unionists. Until the A.1.F., R.A.A.F. and
R.A.N. totals are announced and dis-
sected, it cannot be fairly claimed that a
majority of the fighting men were for
Labor, though no doubt many were, as
was the case in the last war.
Making a liberal allowance for pen-
sioners, dependent women and persons
in uniform of both sexes, the number of
income-earning people who voted Labor
must , have considerably exceeded a mil-
lion. The victorious party has a right
to ask these homekeeping people to seal
their electoral support for it by subscrib-
ing to the current war loan. And seeing
that .it is the nation’s chosen instrument
for carrying on the war and that its finan-
cial needs are great, they certainly should.
Rough on Parents.
One result of majority-Australia’s vote
returning a Government which prefers
to leave as much of the fighting as pos-
sible to volunteers is that as their boys
turn 18 parents have to make the deci-
sion of signing or not signing them into
the A.I.F.
A mother and father may sign the
paper at the urgent request and plead-
ings that every spirited boy makes; sub-
sequently the parents are left with the
feeling of having been directly parties to
his fate.
It represents a responsibility so heavy
that it is no wonder many parents shrink
from it, leaving their boys to take the
ordinary course of militia call-up, the
boys in most cases resentful and dis-
gruntled because they can’t do what
friends of theirs have induced their
parents (often reluctantly) to permit
them to do.
If there was a one-army arrangement,
with all due for call-up and service on
the basis of equality of obligation and
risk, parents would be spared this harsh
responsibility. In some cases they have
signed for and lost all their sons. For
them this is a war of sacrifice of the few
for the many, made bitter by the reflec-
tion that the many prefer that thus it
should be.
Air Power.
One reason that has been given for
optimism regarding an early ending of
the war is the belief that it can be won
by air-power alone.
This belief persists despite strong
evidence to the contrary —such as the
severe fighting now going on in Italy,
the past fighting in Africa, the clashing
of large armies in Russia and all the grim
land fighting for bits of Pacific territory.
In all these areas the air arm has been
a vital auxiliary to the ground forces,
but it alone has not been able to conquer.
And the theory that Germany can be
bombed into submission, and Japan like-
wise, has yet to be proved.
U.S. Congressman Will Rogers, lately
in London, has been cabled as emphati-
cally ruling out “any hope of bombing
Germany from the war within the next
few months.” He said also that he had
learned in London that American air
casualties had been “shockingly high.”
Germany, Mr. Rogers added, has
“accumulated an unbelievable number of
effective anti-aircraft guns, making bomb-
ing missions below 15,000 feet suicide.”
The Allies, he said, had laughed when
the Germans first used rockets on fight-
ing ’planes, but “returned pilots are not
laughing.”
Not only in Germany but in England
and elsewhere anti-aircraft defences have
been advanced out of all recognition
compared with what they were when the
war started. Reports have been pub-
lished in England of guns which fire
100 rounds a minute up to 40,000 ft., and
the American Army has officially claimed
that it has a gun with a 60,000ffi ceiling.
Such developments suggest that any
idea that it will be possible to “police”
the post-war world with nothing but air
power might have to be discarded. All
through history the story of new weapons
of warfare has been that eventually an
answer, to them is found. Before the
North African campaigning was through
a fairly satisfactory answer to tanks had
been found by the Allies, and probably
before-the war ends the same might be
said of bombers.
Two Towns.
The hon. secretary of the Warrnambool
and District (Vic.) Primary Producers’
Union, newly formed, has sent The Bul-
letin a copy of the Warrnambool
“Standard” containing a report of a
P.P.U. meeting. “As this is of great
importance to the people of your dis-
trict” he would be pleased to see the
report in this paper.
Unfortunately, space prohibits that, but
there is sufficient for congratulations and
a trifle of information.
The Bulletin’s town, like Warrnam-
bool, stands on the shores of an inlet.
There is a very good wharf, with a
storage shed and unloading appliances
capable of handling quite large steamers
—when there isn’t a wharf strike, “mod-
erates” against Communists or something
like that.
And in outer suburbs, north and south
of the town, there are very large deposits
of good coal. When unionists (no others
need apply) can be induced to mine it
not only the town but the entire district
will benefit
Of recent years many people have come
from other districts, chiefly to work in
factories and on “projects” for the Com-
monwealth Government. One particu-
lar “project” has been idle for a fort-
night because somebody “sabotaged the
strike” or something like that.
As is the case with Warmambool, the
main “primary products” of The Bulle-
tin’s district are milk, eggs, potatoes,
onions, pigs and fish. Lately most of
these things have been scarce, but the
district cannot be blamed for it, the resi-
dents being perfectly willing to eat the
things if- they can get them. It is said
that the blacks —who hang round markets
—are to blame, but they are daisies at
escaping prosecutions, though there is a
pyramid of laws and regulations against
black markets, together with armies of
inspectors and police, the police being
ample for the protection of Communist
union bosses and horse, dog, football and
lottery punters.
The people are very fond of sports, and
the abolition of the raceless Saturday as
an introduction to the war-loan campaign
has been widely approved. And popular
speakers address the residents every Sun-
day in the local gardens, urging them to
be loyal and true citizens, to display civic
pride, to stamp out sin and the boss and
demand a Second Front in Western
Europe Now. Industrial matters are in
the hands of an Arbitration Court, an
Industrial Commission, a Public Service
Board, Coal Reference Boards, concilia-
tion committees, union executives, job-
controllers, strike committees and two
Governments' composed of 34 Ministers,
with, over all, an energetic Trades Hall
plentifully supplied with Communists.
The foregoing brief outline is sufficient
to show that this town, like Warmam-
bool, is destined to become an important
centre. A free library movement,
launched in 1939, is referred to with
pride. So far it hasn't got beyond the
legislative stage, but when a great new
racecourse, “the finest in the world,” has
been completed with Government-guar-
anteed funds, a pound or two may be
found for books.
,
Communists and itnices.
- watp -
The recent strike on ie J , f
front had its origin in a riruggle beiween
Communists and
Now the Director of
Works Council Personne , J S ,
strike ° n u f e * e «/r'^ r^ e v nwtirms
been a rash of A.W.C. slopwork meetings
° other S , ates as well _4 erte d' that "a
conflict between the union and Commu-
nigts was respons ible for the dispute,
wh i cb has held up one of the highest-
prjority defence works in Australia for
a fortnight, has thrown 3800 men out of
employment, and has lost time of incal-
cuiable value to the nation.”
{he paid officials of Commu-
R i s t-controlled unions of Australia are
“deferred as essential,” and there has been
a remarkable increase of them in
some un } o ns, particularly Thornton's
r C( j Racket. The Balmain branch
G f jj,e Ironworkers was with difficulty
restrained by the Government from strik-
ing a s a protest against Communist con-
trol. Last week it passed a vote of
no confidence in the Thornton group,
One cause of industrial turmoil would
disappear if the exemption of union offi-
cials, shop stewards and the like from
military service were forthwith removed,
Jf the Sydney wharfies want to rub
sa lt into the wounds of their Corns, they
might do worse than establish friendly
relations with the International Long-
shoremen’s Association, of which one Joe
Ryan is uncrowned king. Joe Ryan was
recently elected life president of the
Atlantic division of the 1.L.A., and he
celebrated the occasion by pitching into
Joe Curran, president of the National
Maritime Union, and Harry Bridges, boss
of the West Coast longshoremen. Curran
and Bridges he described as “Communist
stooges, who, before Russia was invaded,
were promising their comrades that
neither union would help the ‘imperialist
war,’ Now they are all out for unity and
a Second Front, though Curran won’t be
there to face the Nazi guns. We are not
asking our men to be deferred as essen-
tia’
“I’M DREAMING OF A WHITE—I MEAN BLACK—CHRISTMAS!”
"'Coal is needed so urgently that the Government believes the customary holidays should not be taken this year.'—Minister
Beasley, September 28 After the conference Mr. Curtin said (October 6) he had agreed that the miners should knock
off for ten days, having the firm belief that the requisite tonnage would be produced between now and Christmas.”


(fits
«*D
wm
<St
► .• ’•■*‘.-y y .
C.S.B.HARDWALL PLASTER
Packed in Jirte Bags
PI!
#!
THE COLONIAL SUGAR REFINING COMPANY LTD.
(Building Materials Division),
SYDNEY - - MELBOURNE - - BRISBANE - - ADELAIDE - - PERTH
P. 1-43.
Specially designed to
resist more- than -
ordinary wear, this
exceptionally hard
gypsum finishing plas-
ter is recommended
for all wall surfaces
which are subject to j
exceptional wear and
tear. It is, of course,
essential that this
work be done by ex-
pert plasterers.
c, TH i r
Tm b
“THE TASK THAT
FEW MEN WANT”
If you are an Executor, this book will interest you
No one welcomes the obligations imposed by executorship, especially in
these days when exceptional conditions make financial and business matters
particularly complicated. Burns Philp Trust Company Limited has produced
for the guidance of executors and administrators a special brochure entitled
" The Task that few Men Want," dealing with • the Company's special service
in connection with the execution of Wills and the administration of Estates.
This is available to you on application. Write or call for your copy.
DIRECTORS—James Burns - Robert John Nosworthy - Lewis Armstrong - Joseph Mitchell
Manager—C. H. Chester
Burns Philp Trust
COMPANY LIMITED
7 BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY
PHONE: B 7901. Box 543 B. G.P.0., Sydney.
BP 36-43
POLITICAL POINTS
The latest nine-days’ wonder: the P.M.
accepting the N.S.W. miners’ promise to
get him all the coal he needs if he’ll give
’em nine days’ holiday at Christmas. As
usual, the strikes went on.
In his poor apology for his Govern-
ment’s latest failure to deal with the coal
scandal, Curtin said that coal could be got
only by miners going down the mines;
“they cannot produce coal if they are put
in jail.” It begins to look as though some
of them won’t produce it unless they are
put there.
Appointment of a Parliamentary com-
mittee to go into pay-as-you-earn was
suggested by Menzies in his speech on
the Budget—an excellent effort —and the
Government is favorable. It is worried
at the plight of ex-Minister Lawson (first
mentioned in Lang’s “Century” and
rammed home by Fadden), who will have
to find a tax of £l4OO on a vanished
salary of £2300 out of his member's
screw, £lOOO, itself reduced 20 p.c. by
tax.
S.A. Assemblymen are asking for more
pay, and that before the general election,
which is contrary to union rules. Com-
pared with the salaries of other politi-
cians in this lavish land, the complainants
fare rather poorly (Federal £lOOO, N.S.W.
£875, Queensland £650, W.A. £6OO, Vic-
toria £5OO, Tasmania £4OO to £5OO, ac-
cording to distance from Hobart, S.A.
£400). The trouble is that if they held
a slopwork nobody would notice it.
According to a Mr. Logan, secretaiy
of a northern (N.S.W.) miners’ lodge,
tired men are not tolerant of pin-pricking
colliery managers. What on earth makes
them tired?
A recent estimate puts the forthcoming
Australian wheat crop, at about
100,000,000 bushels, a drop of 55,000,000
on last year. It doesn’t say much for
Scully’s methods of “stabilising the
industry.”
After the Sydney public had been told
by Health Minister Kelly that he’d
wager on Lidcombe Old Men’s Home
control being “vindicated by the Public
Service Board inquiry,” a wishy-washy
report appeared. It referred to “short-
comings,” arising out of “diverse func-
tions,” “amorphous buildings,” “chang-
ing'inmate personnel” and the like, and
pronounced the administration “sympa-
thetic and generally efficient.” Then it
recommended:
Seven times as much butter and twice
as much jam; special attention to dietetic
values and palatability; appointment of a
dietitian and health officers to supervise
food preparation; woollen clothing, im-
proved repair facilities, improved general
appearance of inmates; appointment of a
welfare committee, a ladies’ auxiliary and
a recreation subcommittee; dental care.
And that’s “vindication.”
“A million-pound lottery, to be held
each year in addition to all the other lot-
teries” (there have been 983) has been
suggested by one J. B. Kenna, vice-presi-
dent of the N.S.W. Hospitals’ Associa-
tion, to the Sydney Labor Government.
“If a place like Eire can run a big sweep
on the English Derby,” said Kenna, “why
can’t New South Wales run o‘ne?” Why
indeed?—except that N. S. Wales is the
most popiApus part of a Commonwealth
that has to finance a war for existence,
whereas Eire has elected to be neutral.
With the safety-for-Alfie issue no
longer operating. Labor failed in two
more Assembly by-elections on Satur-
day. A C.P. man (W. B. Heily) succeeds
a C.P. man (the late E. A. Coyle) in
Waranga (Vic.), and an Independent
(Lord Mayor Chandler) an Independent
(Bruce Pie) in Hamilton (Q.). Hamilton
has never been exactly a Labor electorate,
but with three candidates in the field
and first-past-the-post obtaining, Labor
gave its nominee, Roberts, an excellent
chance. He finished a bad third, with
1950 votes ; Chandler got 4991 and Hart
(Opposition) 2204.
American writers are beginning to warn
Uncle Sam against being too philan-
thropic. For instance, George Weller,
one of the best of their war correspon-
SAYING IT WITH FLOWERS.
“Announcing the renewal of Mr. Bruce’s appointment as High Commissioner for another
vear Mr Curtin said 'It has been a source of very great gratification to me to have the
services of a man of such outstanding ability; I have the greatest respect and admiration for
him.’”
dents f Chicago “Daily News” and New
York “Post”):
In the Pacific we are doing things upside
down. After selecting a coral spot neces-
sary to defend Australia and recover the
East Indies, Malaya and Free China, we
straightway begin making it well protected
and secure and as valuable as possible, all
without any purchase, long-term agreement
or understanding. We are even fighting
for territory in an Australian protectorate
granted by the League of Nations that we
have never even recognised. And out there
our engineers are building more aerodromes,
bomber runways (one cost nearly $1,000,000
and each fighter strip almost as much),
road networks and harbors with permanent
American-Cement wharves. Some people
out in the Pacific are saying that the
Americans have, through confusion of
bookkeeping on lend-lease, gradually been
losing their sense of property. There is
no indication that any other nation in the
Pacific has suffered such absence of mind.
Weller’s remarks should be noted at Can-
berra. They express a spirit which may
have an awkward growth.
Senator Chandler, one of the Congress-
men recently in Australia after visiting
American battle stations, said on. his
return to Washington that “the Germans”
had “established defences in depth on
the western front,” and that “any attempt
to invade the Channel coast would in-
volve mass murder of the troops.’ Still,
none of the “Australian” Communist
leaders nor any of the clergymen who
echo their shouts for blood would be
there, so why should they worry?
To the N.S.W. and Queensland Gov-
ernments the distribution of income-tax
revenue is “fruit for the sideboard,” as
the “sports” say ; but in Adelaide the fruit
is sour. Playford, presenting his finan-
cial statement, said his §tate was
£1,250,000 worse off than if it had been
allowed to go on collecting tax. at pre-
war rates, and that he would have to
budget for a deficit of £422,000. He is
going to “take this question up with the
Commonwealth authorities in a most
energetic manner,” meanwhile asking the
Grants Commission for more.
Boards, netting and other materials
may now be removed from shop-win-
dows, said the Sydney N.E.S. Minister,
Heffron. Whereupon Canberra rose up
and said this was in conflict with Cur-
tin’s instruction to State Premiers, which
was that air-raid protection devices
should not be removed. Then Dedman
entered the fray with the statement that
his outfit would have to be consulted be-
fore labor was used for removals.
Finally, Lazzarini (the Federal one). “The
protective devices should not yet be re-
moved .... if the Defence Committee says
they are to remain on they are to remain
on.” And the other wars went on.
With abolition of the raceless Saturday
pronounced as an introduction to the
Budget and the war loan Chifley warned
Australians that they' “cannot look for
increased freedom to spend till after the
war has been won.” Punters conclude
that the warning doesn’t apply to them.
They are still free to go broke on the
horses and dogs,-and to buy as many
lottery tickets as they can run to in the
four States competing for money which
ought to be going into war loans,
A Sydney footballer has announced
that, after giving £25 a “fly” at Rand-
wick, he intends to put the rest of his
season’s bonus, £2OO altogether, into the
war loan. Presumably his way of express-
ing gratitude for the football-as-usual rule
and the abolition of the raceless Saturday.
The Canberra urge for paper economy
which limited the sizes of (some) posters
to ten inches by six ended on election
night. Sydney hoardings are now deco-
rated with a poster twenty feet long
urging all good Australians to read the
lucubrations of the Dean of Canterbury,
who is more Russian than the Russians.
But the only objectors may be candidates
who were fined for breaking the regu-
lation.
They plead some funny arguments in
these industrial cases. A C.C.C. unionist,
charged with stopping work in Queens-
land, was fined a fiver:
Counsel for the prosecution: The men’s
complaint was that no jam was available
for their meal, which consisted of sausages,
tomatoes, bread, butter and cheese. Both
Army and Air Force units were without jam
at the same period.
Counsel for the defence: Direct action is
the only way the men have of getting their
rights.
Presumably to have jam, though the
Army and Air Force go without.
Perth had a Labor member in the first
three Commonwealth Parliaments, J. M.
Fowler. By 1910 he had changed his
party, and, first as a Liberal, then as a
Nationalist, he hung on till 1922, beating
a succession of Labor candidates —among
them were Alick McCallum, afterwards
State Minister of Works; Panton, the
present Minister of Mines ; and, in 1919,
Curtin himself. Fowler was followed by
E. A. Mann (1922-29), now “The Watch-
man,” who was ousted by Nairn. Now
Nairn has been unseated by Thomas
Patrick Burke, who put up against him
in 1937, Between 1906 and 1940 four
other capitals had Labor members most
of the time and Melbourne all the time.
Now the six have them.
Nobody calls him Artie Fadden now,
but he has been treated more harshly
than he deserved. He was on the right
track when, he said that butcher’s meat
would be rationed in September if Labor
got back. This was denied in a disingenu-
ous way, but it came true.
Churchill now looks like becoming the
“Yours-for-the-Revolution” gangs’ Public
Enemy No. 1. In his latest world broad-
cast he not only told them that he and
the President wouldn’t be stampeded into
“squandering” British, American and
Canadian lives in an invasion of France
this year, but he praised the kings of
Yugoslavia and Greece, making it crystal-
clear that they would be restored to their
thrones. The revolutionary idea was that
the kings-in-exile wouldn’t be able to see
their thrones for (other) people’s blood.
After over half a century of “free, com-
pulsory and secular” schooling in Aus-
tralia, it is strange to read the British
Government’s proposals for recasting the
education service of England and Wales.
One of the many amendments outlined
is designed “to emphasise the position of
religious instruction as an essential
element of education,” it being explained
that “there has been a very general wish,
not confined to members of the churches,
that religious education should be given
a more defined place in the life and work
of the schools.” And not only is the
school-leaving age to be raised to 15
“without exemptions,” but there is to be
“compulsory part-time education in work-
ing hours up to 18” ; and “the present
power of authorities to provide school
meals and milk is to be converted
into a duty.” Whatever trials may be in
store for Britons after the war, they will
face them as an educated nation.


LOOK Through These Glasses
at Everything You Buy!
0(83*42
m
From now until victory comes, patriotic buying must be the rule.
It will help mightily towards winning the war if we all buy longer-
lasting things —when we must buy at all.
ExidC BATTERIES
Let this be Your
Wartime Slogan.
PERSONAL ITEMS
With tile Lethbridge British Military
Mission to promote maximum co-opera-
tion in the Allied war effort against
Japan is one man who knows his Aus-
tralia well —the tall, cool, capable Rear-
Admiral Francis Gooldin, whom nothing
ever ruffles and who would be neat and
imperturbable in a lifebuoy in the middle
of the Pacific. He was trained for four
hard years in Jellicoe’s Iron Duke during
the last war, and was commander and
executive officer of H.M.S. Hood when
as flagship of the Atlantic Squadron she
visited Australia in 1924. Later he re-
turned for a period as captain of
H.M.A.S. Melbourne. Recently he has
been flag officer in charge at Harwich,
lair of “our light naval forces” so often
mentioned in dispatches.
High Court Chief Justice J. G. Latham
has been booked to perform the unveil-
ing on Sunday, October 24, of a monu-
ment over the grave of poet Shaw Neil-
son in the Footscray Cemetery. Bernard
O’Dowd will deliver the oration. Neil-
son was a member of the Bread and
Cheese Club, whose Knight Grand
Cheese J. K. Moir is the one mainly
responsible for bringing about this
tribute to his memory.
David Gordon, President of S.A. Leg.
Council since 1932, claims never, to have
missed any sitting of the House, until
lately he was unavoidably detained in
Melbourne for a day or so. Chief-of-
staff of the old Adelaide “Register”
before he went into politics, he talks of
retiring after the present session.
“H.W.”: Tasmanian knight John
Evans (B. 6/10/’43) was one of those
who chose the Southern Cross design for
the Australian flag. A notable memorial
to him is the sanatorium for consump-
tives at New Town (Tas.); he was one
of its founders and its only president. A
State Parliamentarian for 40 years,
Premier twice, Speaker for 15 years and
Lieut.-Governor, he was president (the
first) of Boy Scouts, of St. John’s Am-
bulance Assoc., the Royal Life Saving
Society and Hobart Regatta. He was also
a member of the Hobart Marine Board
for quarter of a century, keeping up 'a
link with his early days at sea, where he
rose from cabin boy to captain, becom-
ing Hobart manager of the Huddart
Parker co.
Here depicted by Coventry is the
medico mentioned in B. 15/9/’43 as
having discovered a new brain disease
while in Australia, Dr. E. Weston Hurst.
DR. E. WESTON HURST.
He has resigned the directorship of Ade-
laide’s Institute of Medical and Veteri-
nary Science for an important post with
Imperial Chemicals, Manchester. Before
coming to Australia seven years back,
Dr. Hurst had experience with the Lister
Institute (London), Rockefeller Institute
(U.S.A.) and London’s National Hospital.
After a fire in Sydney some 35 years
back, John Scott, frae Dundee, picked
up a short length of burnt rope and
began idly unravelling it. As he un-
ravelled the idea occurred to him that
he’d like to make- rope ; and that was the
genesis of the big John Scott rope-
making concern, begun with a partner in
a little place in Redfern. Brought to
Australia as a 10-year-old, Scott took a
hand in the S’African War with thp Bush-
men’s Contingent medical corps, and has
had a great respect for South Africans
ever since. His pet pastime, bowls, has
JOHN SCOTT.
led him to see more of his adopted
country than the native-born generally
see. He’s an ex-president of the Austra-
lian Bowling Council and was president
of the N.S.W. Bowling Association for
over six years. He was a special crony
of The Bulletin’s “Hop” and William
Macleod, both in their day confirmed
addicts of the game.
By the time he got back to England
on the four-months’ trip which included
Australia and Maoriland, L. W. Brock-
ington, adviser to the British Ministry of
Information, had covered 40,000 miles.
He reported himself very pleased with
what he saw of the war efforts of these
parts, and he holds letters from Curtin
and Fraser to say that these parts were
pleased with him, too. Among other
things he noted was the ingenuity of the
M.L. Ministry of Agriculture in persuad-
ing American troops to eat corned mut-
ton, a line of fodder they don’t much
relish. Thousands of tins were relabelled
“Luncheon Meat,” and as such went
down well. Brockington, a Welshman
and a onetime classics and English
master, went to Canada in 1912 to be-
come one of that Dominion’s leading
lawyers.
From John Brennan:
Captain H. F. Waters, of the British Solomon
Islands Protectorate defence force, was on
Bopiri plantation, New Ireland, on March 14,
1942, when 80-odd Japs arrived. They called
to Waters to come out, and their officer ex-
plained that they were looking for two Gov-
ernment officials. He had a list of all the
plantations along the road with the names of
every resident. Waters knew where the wanted
men were hidden, but said nothing. The Japs
ransacked his home, took the radio and what
arms they could find, but showed no interest'
in a small iron safe in which were all his money
and valuables (tobacco included). Then the
Japs announced that they were moving up the
road but would be back at nightfall. Waters
didn’t wait. He got to the coast and joined
16 other plantation men who were making off
the island in a 28ft. boat. They had rations
for three days, but with winds against them it
was eight days before they reached the New
Guinea coastline at Buna; then there was a long
trip round to Moresby in a schooner. A Vic-
torian, Waters was wheat-farming in the Mallee
when the 1914-18 war came along. Enlisting
on August 4, he was on Gallipoli with the 22nd
Battalion, and in 1916 was wounded in France;
he still has a slight limp. Subsequently he took
to plantation managing at Pepesala on the
Russell Islands, stayed 11 years and in 1933
was off to Papua prospecting, thence to plan-
tation work again on New Ireland. The Ameri-
can invasion of Guadalcanal gave him his
chance to return to the Solomons, to find more
adventure, and to see action in a second war —
in the bitterest of the fighting for the Mata-
nakau River. Guadalcanal cleaned up, he joined
Squadron-Leader Widdy (B. 6/10/ ’43) in organ-
ising the Native Labor Corps. Much of the
corps’s work is likely to remain of permanent
value to the Solomons.
F. W. Hassell, the new president of the
Australian Printing Trades Employers’
Federation, elected at the recent confer-
ence in Sydney, is head of an Adelaide
firm, one of the very few in S.A. that
venture also on publishing.
Retired after 44 years’ public service,
Nita B. Kibble, Australia’s first woman
librarian. In making application to sit
for the exam, for library assistant in
November, 1899, she signed initials only,
not staling sex. H. C. L. Anderson, then
Principal Librarian, and T. A. Coghlan,
later Agent-General for N.S.W. in Lon-
don, were astonished when she appeared
in the board-room on examination day,'
and the 30 young men also sitting rebelled
at the idea. But Anderson had just re-
turned from a trip to America, where
he’d been impressed by the ability of
women librarians, and N.B. was allowed
to sit and secured the position. She was
mainly responsible for building up the
Research Department of the N.S.W.
Public Library.
A ship that lately made
landfall in America in-
cluded a remarkable
batch of brave old-
timers in its complement:
Admiral Sir Herbert
Meade - Featherstone-
haugh, now, at 68, an
R.N.V.R. lieutenant;
Col. H. B. Gunn, D. 5.0.,
M.C., of the Royal Artil-
lery, now, at 63, a bos’n ;
and Lieut.-Col. A. E.
Newland, D. 5.0,, also of
the Royal Artillery, and
also 63, now an able-
bodied seaman. Also, a
lieut.-engineer of 66 summers (S. B.
Evitt) and another of the 53-year-
old brigade as sub-lieut. (author Conor
O’Brien). In this company Sir Richard
White, Bart., among the ship’s able-
bodied seamen, could qualify as ship’s
boy. A mere baby of 33, he left training
and riding steeplechasers for the a.b.’s
job. Among other orders and decora-
tions, Admiral (now Lieut.) Meade-
Featherstonehaugh wears the Knight
Grand Cross, Royal Victorian Order,
Knight Commander of the Order of the
Bath and D.S.O. Asked who peels the
potatoes he said “We take turns.”
On a 40,000-mile tour lately completed
by his return to Melbourne, R. M. Ansett
found Britain producing aerial racehorses
and America specialising in flying pack-
horses. America’s latest, the Lockheed
Constellation, carries 60 passengers,
travels at 300 m.p.h. and has a pressure
cabin for altitudes of 20,000 ft. and over.
Ansett was born at Inglewood (Vic.) in
1909 and educated at State schools.
Gilsullivan addicts agree that Adelaide
Uni. council made a good pick in giving
Richard Watson the job of principal sing-
ing teacher at the Elder Conservatorium
(B. 6/10/ ’43). Watson shone particularly
as Wilfred the Jailer in “The Yeomen.”
His voice is inherited, his father having
been a solo bass in Adelaide oratorio.
A 14-year-old grandson of former out-
standing journalist Monty Grover, Patrol-
Leader Michael Canon, of Ist Cobden
Scout Troop (Vic.), is editor, publisher
and printer of a new publication, the
“Fly Paper,” with the motto “Stick To
It,” price 3d. The local shire staff does
a good deed by the Scouts with the office
duplicator.
The sportsman Whitmore Carr, former
chairman of Adelaide Racing Club, S.A.
Jockey Club and Adelaide Stock Ex-
change, had another side to his life, less
known; and he gets a tribute possibly
unique in his Anglican bishop’s monthly
letter: “As synodsman, as a member of
standing committee, as a trustee he
gave long and generous service in this dio-
cese, and I here record our deep appreci-
ation and our gratitude to God for his
faithful life.”
Corporal Tim Hughes, awarded
the M.M. for conspicuous bravery at
Milne Bay, is a half-caste from the Point
Pearce Mission Station of S.A. Only 23
now, he was a salt-digger (and a promi-
nent Methodist) before going to Syria,
Tobruk and finally New Guinea.
Today’s world best-sellers are written
anonymously by Hilary St. George Saun-
ders, a British Air Ministry official, and
are based on official communiques.
The Battle of Britain is in its 43rd
edition, has been printed in 24
languages, and sales in the United King-
dom alone are close on five million.
Subsequent publications of equal popu-
larity include Bomber Command, Coastal
Command and Combined Operations:
The Official Story of the Commandos,
which America’s Book-of-the-Month
Club is offering to its 600,000 members
as its June selection. In collaboration
with John Palmer, Saunders also writes
the most popular English mystery yarns
and thrillers under the joint nom de
plume of “Francis Seeding.”
Knight Joynton Smith:
Though they might never have met Joynton
Smith personally, many thousands, quite apart
from Sydney, \yhere he was a familiar enough
figure, can testify that the accompanying Low
drawing of him in his last-war loan-raising days
is a clinker. Always well-barbered, well-dressed,
with a monocle and its loop of ribbon adding
to his air of success, he was seen on hundreds
of open-air platforms up and down the land,
arguing coin out of rural pockets, with frequent
reference to what his lisp made “the gwowies
of the Bwitish Empwiar.” In his “Smith’s
Weekly” and “Guardian” days just after the
war the elder Packer acted as his watchdog, but
visitors who got into the sanctum wanting
anything could count on a good hearing. A
Londoner who went to sea at 14 and stayed
there till he became a Union co. chief steward,
Joynton Smith organised the Seamen’s and*
Firemen’s Union in Wellington (M.L.), and was
first president and secretary of the Cooks and
Pantrymen’s Union there. Before he’d turned
30 he’d made a tidy pile in MX., where, earlier,
he had a racing pony that he took from meet-
ing to meeting. Crossing to Sydney, he soon
built heavily on his already solid banking
account; bought the Imperial Hotel and the
Imperial Arcade alongside; built Victoria Park
racecourse; launched “Smith’s” and the
“Guardian”; was in the Legislative Council
from 1912 till 1933; and took the leading part
in building up Rugby League. Also, he founded
and was president of Royal South Sydney
JOYNTON SMITH.
Hospital, contributing largely to its upkeep, and,
in the same line of his activities, was first presi-
dent of the Picton Lakes T.B. Soldiers and
Sailors’ Settlement. Knighted for his last-war
patriotic efforts, he was 89 at the end.
Into the silence:
In New Guinea, from illness, Brigadier Harry
Blamyre Sewell, M.C., forward artillery com-
mander. He won his decoration with the artil-
lery in France, 1918.
At Broken Hill, George Alston, owner of the
far-out Mulka station and an authority on abo.
lore. A Boer War veteran, he was with the
S.A. mounted police, before settling in the out-
back 40 years ago.
In London, at 45, Australian heavyweight
boxer George Cook, who, though one of his
best performances was a surprising win over
Tiger Payne in Australia, managed to secure
matches with*a number of the world’s best,
including such as Young Stribling and Carpen-
tier. Cook fought often in Britain, on the
Continent and in North and South America.
Also, at Cherbourg Aboriginal Settlement,
Jerry Jerome, one of the best of all abo. boxers
and a colorful ring personality in the days of
hard-fought 20-rounders.


Society
AND IT'S PRINTED
WITH WIMBLES INKS'
“Bo”: The peculiarities of the Ameri-
can language as she is spoke fascinate
me. You cannot determine from his
accent whether an Aussie hails from the
Diamantina or Lake Torrens, from
Burnie or Marble Bar. But the Ameri-
can Middle-Wester speaks in a dif-
ferent accent from the North Caro-
linian ; the Texan’s speech is not that of
the man from Butte, Montana. One of
the most charming accents I’ve heard was
spoken by a nurse from Oregon. As to
slang, .our friends have probably a richer
vocabulary than any other nation, much
of it very ingenious. And although pro-
nunciations like “skedule” sound harsh
compared with our softer “sh,” there is
logic behind the American version ; don’t
we pronounce “school” that way? Heard
in films and over the air, President
Roosevelt’s talking of “institootions” and
“prodoocing” is now so familiar as to
be unnoticeable. In a prelude to his
film “Mission to Moscow” Joseph E.
Davies uses the same pronunciation
'If it's not inconvenient to the Army, sir, I'd like a month's leave.”
freely. And I noticed that both celeb-
rities have referred more than once to
“d 'tails.” I have never heard any Aussie
say anything but “de- tails.” Yet Webster
and Chambers dictionaries have always
given it as “•details.”
if. !K * *
“D.E.”: What has come over Sydney’s
flapper dailies? Three thousand girls in
uniform were seen in a war-loan proces-
sion on Friday and not one of the f.d.
placed it on record that “they marched
better than the Guards.” Is the miss in
uniform losing her glammer for these
sheets? In sober truth she marches well
enough and looks a stunning creature.
Square meals, early hours, sufficient
clothing and sensible shoes have done
wonders for young women who pre-
viously slimmed, painted their faces and
squeezed their tootsies until they became
mincing caricatures of womanhood.,Then
as they went along they often looked
cross, even arrogant—no doubt an effect
of emaciation and sore feet. Now they
Sfnile winsomely, as healthy and well-
nourished damsels should, and their com-
plexions seem natural as often as not.
V H*
“Max”; The new furniture-removal
hand, though a thought elderly, was
strong and willing ; but he nearly lost
the firm the first job to which
he was sent. The lady of the
house said she had some very good
things and hoped they would be cared for
properly in their removal to the new
home. “I hope you understand furni-
ture?” she wound up. “No, lady,” he
replied sadly and truthfully, “I’m a de-
molisher by trade.” A good sport, she let
him carry on, and all went well; but he
has been told to conceal his past in
future.
* * * *
“Form X 8234”: Note received by a
firm supplying Government depart-
ments :
On the umpteenth of Octember this de-
partment mailed you its cheque in payment
for supply of goolygum. As the endorse-
ment on the back of this cheque is in the
form of a receipt it is subject to stamp duty
of 2d., which you omitted to affix. We are
drawing attention to it in order to avoid any
unpleasant consequence which may arise
through a breach of the Stamp Duties Act.
Kindly forward the necessary stamp immedi-
ately. As it was necessary to remind you in
this matter, thus incurring postal charge,
please include postage stamp for Ifd. with
duty stamp.
The reply was expressive; “(1) We always
stamp receipts ; (2) we did so in this case
and you got it; (3) as compensation for
typist’s time, notepaper, envelope and
postage stamp, kindly forward one penny,
cost of other items being waived as a
contribution to the war effort.” The firm
is still awaiting its penny.
* * * *
“A Major”: “Cauboy’s” rejoinder (B.
6/10/’43) to my gentle defence of con-
cert audiences seems a little captious. I
gather that he despises “listening to
music, gawking at pictures and reading
books” as aids to the acquisition of cul-
ture, but unless he has discovered a
method of injecting it with a hypodermic
syringe he leaves us Philistines very little
chance of improvement. Apparently if
we aren’t born with a complete aesthetic
faculty we must eschew concerts, stay
away from picture galleries and presume
not to read great literature. . But evfen
those who arrogate to themselves the sole
right to read may need a little instruc-
tion. For instance, “Cauboy” says “art
critics are seldom so incautious as to
paint, and music critics are not so fool-
hardy as to attempt a symphony or
sonata.” I have heard that painters
Blamire Young, Harold Herbert and
Howard Ashton were (and in the case of
the two last-named still are) almost as
well known as art critics and that
Robert Schumann, Richard Wagner and
Hector Berlioz were numbered by music
critics among the most illustrious journa-
lists of their brotherhood.
“xr tu ” tu *’ * i ,
Norther : The year s most deter-
mined suicide must surety be an Italian
on the N.S.W. North Coast who tried
to stab himself with a stiletto and twice
failed, whereupon he drove the weapon
into his heart with a hammer. He had
been in Australia five years, was un-
naturalised, had a wife and five children
in northern Italy, and was said to be
worrying about their fate under German
domination. That act of hammering
home the knife suggests that a suicide,
“You can chuck that away now, Charlie—we got plenty of everything .”
once having made up his mind, is bothered
less about pain than the possibility of
failure.
“t u „ tt « , * ...
Looby : Mr Heftron s ukase that
Sydney shop windows might now be un-
boarded, overruled by Mr. Lazzanm, met
with no cheers from small shopkeepers,
Gorner-shop Bill wore a scowl as big as
a hat as he glared at the boards over his
window. What the Government hasnt
smd he growled, is what we can find
to dress the with when the
flamm boards come down Dammit,
you can t even dummies.
“Ike Hollar”: A Gallup poll of my
own has discovered that Marryatt’s books
of lusty sea adventure are having a revival
amongst boys. Kingsley’s Westward Ho
and a few of R. L. Stevenson’s romances
still hold the field, as does Dean Farrar’s
Eric, or Little by Little, though I suspect
the last-named is imposed by religious-
minded parents. Not a single boy I
questioned had heard of Jules Verne,
Harrison Ainsworth or Eugene Sue, but
Dumas and Hugo have young admirers
still; the screen has helped that, no doubt,
Amongst the surprises was the discovery
that Ballantyne and Stables still have boy
readers ; and Anstey’s Brass Bottle and
Vice Versa are quite well known. But not
a single youngster who had read Three
Men in a Boat „was encountered. Surely
there is still a laugh for boyhood as well
as adultage in Jerome K. Jerome’s genial
humor.
’* * * *
“AHplflirffi” • A rpcnnrofTnl vnnna
Adelaide A resourceful young
woman in Adelaide, who has been jailed
at last on seven distinct larceny charges,
has disproved the proverb that you
“can’t have it both ways.” By her own
admission she stole a coaL sold it to a
dealer and then, as she liked its style,
stole it back from him to wear herself.
# #
i „ A i » a i
' Alex : A suggestion of mine that law
courts are singularly ill-equipped to adjudi-
cate upon aesthetic issues has been illus-
trated in Sydney by the abortive prose-
cution of one ot those saucy magazines
on grounds of obscenity. For evidence
of obscenity the prosecution produced
pictures of scantily-clad females, and (as
it was necessary to prove that somebody
considered that sort of thing obscene) put
into the witness-box a constable who said
, -j j 4.u a • a.u a +
he considered even the nudes in the Art
Gallery were offensive. When he added
that, although he sometimes went to “the
pictures,” he had never been in “a
theatre,” and that he didn’t like to see
girls in bathing “dress,” an acquittal was
a certainty. The S.M. remarked that
“standards of decency change ; what may
be considered indecent one day is not
SO considered the next.” Kipling in a
less effervescent age noted that the crimes
of Clapham might be considered chaste
in Martaban, but he couldn’t foresee a
day when the dictum that yesterday’s
obscenity might become today’s propriety
wou]d have magisterial sanction
* * *
“Goola”: An Italian who, could he
revisit the glimpses of the moon, would
be particularly interested in modern mili-
tary developments was Leonardo da
Vinci, spiritual father of tank and sub-
marine. In 1483 Leonardo, seeking a job
from Ludovico Sforza, Duke of Milan,
set out his qualifications as a military engi-
neer, and promised, among other things,
to “make covered chariots, safe and un-
attackable, which, entering among the
enemy with their artillery, there is no
body of men so great but they would
break them. And, behind these, infantry
could follow quite unhurt and without
hindrance.” But he had scruples about
submarines: “I do not describe my
met hod for rema ining under water for as
long as j can remain without food and
this j do not publish or divulge on ac-
count of the evil nature of men who
would practise assassinations at the
bottom of the seas b brea king ships in
their lowest par t s and sinking them, to-
gether with the crews that are in them.”
ctl -, ‘ „ , * T *,
~a !I°f ' London re-
™arks that experts (5000 ot them) going
through ..0,000,000 books collected from
the city’s rums have found some rare
ones. There was a first edition of Kip-
ling’s Letters of Marque, published m
1891, now very rare, and a copy of G. B.
Shaw’s My Answers, of which only 62
copies were printed privately (for the
American composer Jerome Kern). Also
the searchers came upon part of the
Foreign Office’s Napoleonic archives, in-
eluding a record of the retreat from Mos-
cow. The nation is to get these and other
rare finds.
TO A GREYHOUND.
“Dogs kept for racing purposes in Australia con-
sume, it is estimated, 1,000,0001 b. of meat a week.”
All sports and pastimes, down to beer and
skittles,
Lighten our pilgrimage up life’s dull steep,
And nobody your speed or skill belittles,
You hounds that after flying quarries leap.
But whether you are worth your whack of
victuals
Or earn a modest portion of your keep
Remains a question to be pondered sadly
By all your barrackers, including Badly.
'To keep you fit for many a strenuous tussle,
You pampered sprinters of the canine clan,
To reinforce your stock of bone and muscle
And obviate you being an “also ran,”
The owner of each one of you must hustle
Around to serve him with sufficient scran
To keep a human family of four
Or five or six a solid week or more.
Your use may be defined, without preamble,
A betting counter, like the racecourse steed.
What thrills you rouse in punters as you
scramble
Among embittered rivals for the lead,
What medium you provide us for a gamble!
What pity ’tis, unlike the equine breed,
You cannot do your stuff and munch your pay
Contentedly in com and oats and hay!
I hold no spoilsport animus toward you,
Excepting for the huge amount you eat.
This ration business it is that’s floored you
And set a stopper on your flying feet.
It's surely commonsense we can’t afford you
Five hundred tons a week of precious meat,
Not even though officialdom endorse
The plea that more or less of it is horse.
N.S.W.
MIDFORD.
THE FILMS THAT LEAD THE
KIDS ASTRAY,
The “unco guid” grow sour and sore
In reprehending shows like these;
They sometimes serve as subjects for
Impressive pulpit homilies.
And frequent letters to the press
In acid sentences portray
The underlying naughtiness,
The immorality, no less,
Of films that lead the kids astray.
Even the Beak, it’s safe to bet,
Will now and then detect therein
The damning influence that set
Young footsteps in the paths of sin.
Yet still the puppets kiss and kill
In many a hot and hectic play
Replete with throb and packed with thrill.
They seethe with bellowdrama still,
The films that lead the kids astray.
It’s these demoralising flicks,
We’re ever warned, that work the woe
Assigned to works like “Deadwood Dicks’’
By serious souls of years ago. ~
“Things seen are mightier than things heard.
The lure that pictured things convey
Hits harder than the printed word,
And heavier the blame incurred
By films that lead the kids astray.
Wild scenes of love and lawlessness,
Of primal passions and the like,
Occasion moralists distress,
Give them, as one might say, the spike.
So what about it, Hollywood?
Do you or don’t you think you could
* Eliminate such features, say.
Scrapping—of course it’s understood
For something moral, pure and good—
The films that lead the kids astray?
N.S.W.
T. THE R.


“Tuart”: Musing on a couple of Syd-
ney police cases in which invalid pen-
sioners are concerned —in one an invalid
pensioner, aged 25, is alleged to have
fought two brothers, “occasioned” one
“actual bodily harm” and knocked the
other out for keeps—l was moved to turn
up the invalid-pension figures for 1941- —
the latest I could get. To a devoted Corn-
stalk like myself, they were distressing.
Though the estimated population of
N. S, Wales that year was not two-fifths
that of the Commonwealth, continental
territories included (2,812,321 out of
7,137,222), it possessed 27,248 invalid pen-
sioners out of a total of 58,921 for the six
States, 15,310 of the 27,248 being females.
And though the female population of Vic-
toria (983,116) and Queensland (498,414)
exceeded that of N. S. Wales (1,401,977)
it drew 4151 fewer invalid pensions—
-6676 in Victoria and 4483 in Queens-
land ; indeed, the number of females on
the invalid-pension list in N. S. Wales was
nearly half the Commonwealth total
(32,446). It shatters a cherished notion
that N. S. Wales is one of the healthiest
countries in the world: a land of robust
women and rugged men. The startling
incidence of invalidity should be exam-'
ined, preferably by that grand old stand-
by a royal commission, with a view to
discovering means of prevention and cure.
* * * «
“William Lackspere”: Melbourne
literary societies gathered last week to
celebrate the centenary of Joseph Furphy,
who, under the pseudonym of Tom
Collins, wrote what is generally regarded
as the first masterpiece of Australian writ-
ing. It was decided to found a memorial
to the author, and plans were put forward
for the building of a national theatre
exclusively to produce Australian drama,
a publishing house to print Australian
writings and a radio station to broadcast
Australian works to the general public.
The enthusiasm was tremendous. Ohe
wealthy’patron offered the land, another
handed over a cheque for £lO,OOO, and
before the meeting was over the future
of the project was assured. Did this
happen? I’m afraid it didn’t; but a
kurrajong-tree was planted in the Botanic
Gardens, where there are plenty of trees
already.
* * * *
“John H.”: The first time I saw “jeep**
in print it was an animal in the “Pop-
eye” comic strip with paws like mittens
and a fourth-dimensional brain that en-
abled it to go anywhere by disappearing
from where it was and reappearing where
it wanted to be. According to a broad-
cast from America that is what the
American Army’s light car .is named
after. But another authority says jeep is
simply a corruption of “G.P.” —“general
purposes,” indicating officially that type
of vehicle. Can anyone say which is the
correct explanation?
* * * *
“Sailor Joe” remembers Italy;
When General Montgomery’s tanks rumbled
through the streets of Brindisi the ghosts of*
some good Australians cheered them on. Brin-
disi cemetery is the last resting-place of Cap-
tain Warren, who commanded the Australian
t.b.ds, based there in World War No. 1. The
keels of the first Allied convoys entering the
Adriatic passed over the grave of the youngest
member of the crew of H.M.A.S. Yarra (No. 1),
washed overboard and drowned in 1917, while
troops in Lecce and Bari are where Aussie
sailors on leave would try to stir up some
amusement or wander round looking for a
meal not fried in olive oil. Again, if they want
to duck across to Valona, Cattaro or Durazzo
we could show them the way. Many a weary
day and night *we plugged along up, down
and across this bit of sea while the bitter winter
wind blew from across the Alps and the French
Grand Fleet, with painted anchor chains, lay
snug at anchor in Corfu Harbor a few miles
away, and the mighty Italian Navy watched
us come and go from alongside their piers and
jetties. We had a good barracker in Captain
Kelly (now admiral) of H.M.S. Weymouth,
known as H.M.S. Concrete because every time
he was torpedoed (which was oft) he filled the
hole up with concrete and went to sea again
to look after his destroyers. We got our own
back on the Eyeties whenever we could. We
stole a bonzer gangway from an Eyetie cruiser
and we helped ourselves to free beer when air
raids were on and the Eyeties disappeared into
dugouts. When their troopship the Grionne
was torpedoed the first lifeboat away contained
all their officers. We saw them as we hauled
hundred of shivering Eyetie sailors out of the
ditch. Our old ships are gone; but their suc-
cessors, the Parramatta and Yarra, did honor
to their names.
* * * *
“Chevroford”: Why not something
eatable as well as good to look at as
street trees (B. 29/9/’43)? I nominate
the common or garden cherry plum. It
is extraordinarily hardy—an ancient
grove which grew on a vacant patch
opposite my home in Victoria bore pro-
lificly season after season. My children
ate the delicious fruit and my wife made
excellent jam out of them. Then they
were threatened with destruction, as the
council proposed to build a road across
them. I thought I might as well have
them for firewood, so I chopped them
down. Something delayed the street con-
struction, and next year they shot up
from the stumps and bore more abun-
dantly than ever. A township whose
streets were lined with cherry plums
would look handsome in springtime, and
be so succulent at fruit time that half
the housewives in the country would
want to go and live there. Apricots and
mulberries should thrive also.
* * * *
“Ajax”: There may have been some
far-fetched claims for Basic English, but
it is a little unfair of “F.S.” to condemn
it because “Basic English professors”
would find it inadequate for the trans-
lation of Shakspeare (B. 22/9/’43). It
needs a poet as gifted as the original to
translate any poetry into any other lan-
guage, and it’s doubtful if it’s possible
to translate great poetry, for it expresses
ideas in exactly the right words, and it
is hardly possible to alter perfection
except for the worse. But there are other
ideas to be exchanged besides poetic ones,
and it seems no more logical to condemn
Basic English as an international language
than it would be to condemn the use of
pidgin English in Malaya or Papua:
Basic English is, indeed, little more than
an aristocratic form of pidgin. It might
be actually ah advantage to have an in-
ternational language incapable of too
much subtlety. No matter how fluent
his French may seem, the wise foreign
diplomat will refuse to negotiate a matter
of great importance with a Frenchman
except through an interpreter: he knows
he is no match for a master of French
on his own ground,
« * * *
“Lord Luvus”: It is encouraging to see
a politician in his maiden speech making
a plea for a new deal for Australian
writers and artists, as Haylen, from
Parkes, did in the House of Reps. One
“Gwan, beat it! ’Oo said anything about combined operations?”
only regrets that his notion of how they
are to be assisted is so bluemouldy.
There should be a college of culture in
Australia composed of authors, artists
and politicians, says Mr. Haylen. Good!
But who is going to choose them? Would
Socrates or Galileo have been invited to
join a college of culture? On the con-
trary, Socrates got the hemlock and
Galileo was forced to renounce his dis-
coveries by the very people who were
supposed to represent the culture of their
•time. Mr. Haylen made a better pro-
posal when he pointed out that Shak-
speare, Dickens and others were being
dramatised for the radio because they
were dead, and that the crowd exploiting
them doesn’t have to pay royalties to a
dead person as they would to a living
Australian. His proposal that whep these
writers were used £lOO should be placed
by the firm using them into a fund to
assist Australian writers has my hearty
approval.
* * * *
“Kay”: One of our foremost radio
announcers was recently puzzled concern-
ing a suitable present for his son, to com-
memorate his first birthday. Someone
suggested war savings certificates. The
announcer liked the idea. “That s a good
notion,” he said heartily; “what made
you think of it?” “Listening to you advo-
cate it in broadcasts” was the disconcert-
ing reply.
* * * *
“Listening Insect” on a. technical
matter:
I agree with “R.J.C.” (B. 29/9/’43) that the
reason my friends use radio contraptions is not
to muck up music but to compensate for the
limitations of recording or broadcasting equip-
ment. I never inferred that they were trying
to muck it up, but how do they know they are
not merely distorting the composers’ meaning
and exaggerating an effect out of all propor-
tion to the whole? An artist friend of mine
went into the head office of a whisky firm in
London and asked for a reproduction of a
portrait by Raeburn which was being used as
a poster. He was shown a reproduction and
told it would cost him 50 guineas. But,
said the artist, “I thought you had Medici prints
of the original.” “Oh, yes,” said the assistant,
“we have those and they’re quite cheap, and
he brought one. “This is a marvellous repro-
duction,” said the artist, “but yours is nothing
like it.” “I know that,” said the assistant, but
ours is much better. It is a work of art. The
photographer has brought out colors and con-
tours that were not there.” The whisky firm
was trying to do with the picture what my
friends are trying to do with music. They
wanted to' create something, but what they
created was awful. The photographer was prob-
ably an excellent technician but he had mis-
taken color differences for tonal differences and
had completely falsified Raeburn’s painting. It
is the same with these radio fanatics. If they
can get their tweeters and boosters to bring out
the violins they are delighted. But I doubt it
Beethoven would have been so hit up about it.
* * * *
“Visitor”: Summertown, in the hills be-
hind Adelaide, had a mounted constable,
George William Manhood, who died in
April. He was so popular locally that
the people have erected a nine-foot granite
memorial to him; and Premier Playford
unveiled it. It is the second of its kind
in S.A. Are other States as fond of their
constables as this?
* * * *
“Sneezer”: “Pawang” (B. 22/9/’43) is
off the track. Locality affects hay fever
according to the substance which causes
it. As a sufferer I am not impressed with
“Pawang’s” theory that my affliction is
caused by imagination. A pathological
test is made by making a series of minute
scratches on the arms and placing on each
one a drop of serum containing substances
which range from pollens, grasses, foods
down to dust. Can any psycholo-
gist explain why my bugbear produced
an angry red lump while the other 38 had
no effect? The latest theory, is that the
trouble is an oversupply in the blood of
histamine, the substance which makes the
red, itchy spots after insect bites. This
seems more likely to me. Have others
noticed that insect ‘bites have far worse
results on us than on non-sufferers?
* * * *
“L.A.C.”: The Scandinavian who pro-
nounced “Juno” “you know” (B. 2/9/’43)
reminds me of a Dutchman I knew who
spoke excellent English and had no “j”
trouble. When I complimented hirii on
his progress he said: “I have listened
carefully and practised for hours. The
hardest part of pronouncing English was
to get the ‘d’ into ‘j’ as you do.” That
astonished me until he spoke some of the
“j”-commencing words slowly and as they
sounded to him—“jump,” “javelin,” etc.
The shadow of the “d” was undoubtedly
there, and I could appreciate his difficulty
in placing the correct inflection on it.
The “j” in northern European languages
is soft and pure, more like “z” or an
“sz” combination than a “y.” “Zyou-
know” is probably what the tobacconist
heard.
* * ♦ *
“Craiser”: The bespattering of
Stratford-on-Avon with red paint by
Baconian vandals recalls the views of
Bernard Hall, onetime director of Mel-
bourne National Gallery and the city’s
leading Baconian. He didn’t go around
with a pot of red paint, but he saw that
color every time Shakspeare’s name was
mentioned. He had devoted an enor-
mous amount of study to the dismal sub-
ject and wrote hundreds of letters to the
dailies —in fact, he wrote more about it
than he ever did about painting. He
held that Shakspeare could not have
written the plays because he had never
been to a university. All modern
Baconians follow the same lines. But how
many great writers have the universities
produced?
* * * *
“Pat Ater”; “Jobber” (B. 29/9/’43)
mentioned only one of the tricks of
“Plevna” • Ryan. Ryan’s casual request
to an obdurate “deaf” patient quitting the
boardroom to “Leave that door open”
is a classic. Then there was the time at
Alexandria, Egypt, when a boat was de-
parting for Australia with disabled
soldiers. Lolling around, slightly bored,
outside the wharf were a number of the
medically unfit taking a last look at
Africa. Came a muffled officer who
threw them a football, and immediately
the more agile pounced on it for a kick
around. That gave General M.O. Ryan
a chance to redraft several obviously fit
men to their units —a great disappoint-
ment on the eve of departure. But there
was one leadswinger Ryan didn’t catch.
He was a “mental” case, suffering from
shell-shock, who used to chase every
scrap of paper that blew about —until he
was safely aboard a hospital transport
en route to Australia. He then remarked
blandly “I’ve got the piece of paper I’ve
been chasing so long” (his medical dis-
charge sheet).
* * * *
“Spoke”: Postal officials aren’t always
responsible for lost letters (B. 29/9/’43).
I bought one of the old wooden houses
in Wellington (M.L.), and in making
alterations found under the floor by the
front door several dozen epistles, dating
back 40 years in some cases. Pushed
through the slot in the door, they had
found a crack between a floorboard and
the doorstep and passed into oblivion as
far as their prospective recipients were
concerned.
» * *
“Pip”: That “bus service over allegedly
forbidden routes” (B. 15/9/’43) recalls
a highlight of my schooldays in Mel-
bourne. Our bus ran along Sydney-
road between Flinders-street station
and Moreland-road, and the service
was operated in defiance of all laws,
by-laws, statutes and sub-paragraphs
and in competition with the cable
trams. To us the proprietor was
endowed with all the romantic quali-
ties of a Deadwood Dick. His drivers
and conductors were reputedly armed
and armored, ready to shoot it out
with the cops at a moment’s notice.
Further, we knew it was illegal ‘to ride
on these buses, and the opportunity of
being a crook for a penny was irresist-
ible. You could ride on the radiator or
on the front mudguards, and parental
warnings made the whole business de-
lightful. We kids weren’t the only ones
who rushed the service, which was
crowded with adults, despite police warn-
ings that the buses were in a poor
mechanical state and a danger to life and
limb. One day the vehicles were im-
pounded, and later sold by auction. Day
after the auction they were back on the
road. But soon afterwards they disap-
peared for keeps, and we junior crooks
disconsolately returned to the cable trams.
* * * *
“Hamer”: I’m not much impressed by
“Curtain Raiser’s” story (B. 29/9/’43)
about the wonderful violinist who had to
remain • a mere member of an orchestra
all his life. Perhaps he wasn’t as good
as he thought he was. A humble
orchestral drummer, who has been at it
for 40 years, is one of the j oiliest of my
acquaintance. Happiness, anyway, is far
apart from material success or promin-
ence. A nephew of a Prime Min-
ister, qualified for the Bar, took a
health trip to the Northern Territory, de-
cided to stay there, and got a job as
ganger on the railway. He might possibly
have been a great legal light, but instead
he achieved peace and contentment. In-
versely I know men who have been
forced into professions which their
parents insisted upon who are discon-
tented and unhappy despite all the tokens
of material success.
# * * *
“Melbn”: Progress report of the cam-
paign to make Melbourne sober by regu-
lation, as recorded in official figures: In
1937 drunkenness charges heard before
the City Court numbered 2227 ; in 1941
they had increased to 3103 and in 1942
to 4194. At that rate of increase the total
for 1943 should be at least 5000. The
figure would be larger if it weren’t for
the fact that police' who find young
women near-drunk order them home
before more drastic action is called for.
What may have some bearing on the
matter is the news that because of the
difficulty of obtaining ordinary liquor the
consumption of methylated spirits has
vastly' increased.
* * * *
“Bumpkin”: Home vegetable growers
in Victoria are beginning to know what
it means to have seven Houses of Parlia-
ment. They have already .been advised
ad nauseam by the State Department of
Agriculture when and where and how to
plant the Jerusalem artichoke and the
radish and how to deal with pests and
what fertilisers to use and other
mysteries. Now they are getting inform
mation on the same subjects from Com-
monwealth authorities, and the informa-
tion differs. It differs so much that
Martin, State Minister of Agriculture (an
experienced farmer), has publicly an-
nounced that anybody who follows the
Commonwealth advice is doomed to dis-
appointment.


ABORIGINALITIES
“M. 8”: Bill Lory was one of the
quietest blokes in our district. He seldom
said anything, though he enjoyed a game
of cards, listening to others yarning or
joining in Sunday-afternoon sports. He
took a trip to the city, ostensibly for a
month, but was back after a week.
“Couldn’t y’ take t’ city life, Bill?” “Aw,
it wasn’t that. But down there everybody
talks an’ nobody listens. That’s no place
for me.” And having made the longest
speech of his life, Bill headed for his
camp.
* * * *
“Moyhu”: Two guinea fowls recently
concluded an overland journey from
Bogong High Plains to Oxley (Vic.), 100
miles distant. Sold by an Oxley farmer
in March of this year to Bill Harpur, a
tableland fossicker, the pair completed
the return trip in just under the six
months. No guinea fowl to my know-
ledge has ever exhibited such a powerful
homing instinct, which led them through
some of the wildest, fox-infested bush
country in north-eastern Victoria. The
instinct to turn homeward is common
enough in many flying birds and the
higher domestic animals, but is rare
among the flightless birds, especially those
of gregarious habit. Both wanderers
arrived in remarkably good condition,
albeit a trifle footsore. They promptly
went into a moult, the delay in losing
their feathers due possibly to the rigor
ous winter climate of the country tra-
versed.
* * * *
“Hist”: My respect for the Australian
ability to legpull was revived after I read
“Moyhu’s” par, (B. 29/9/’43) on quail-
skylark hybrids. Nature abhors hybri-
disation, and when it does rarely occur
in bird life it is between closely related
parents, such as swan and goose. Quails
and larks are not merely of different
families but of different orders (Galli-
forme and Passeriforme respectively)—a
much wider gulf. Still, “M.” might be
right; in which case I am not surprised
that the young hybrids fly low and die
young; shame at their cloudy parentage
is the reason.
* * * *
“Old-timer” writes in blood:
Show me that bloke who invented the axiom
that history repeats itself! ’Way back in 1919
I’m beating up from the Slab Hut country into
Euston (N-S.W.), carrying a large cheque and
an accumulated desire for the fleshpots of the
village. At the punt I yelled for transport and
a bloke came across in a rowboat. He backed
water off the bank and said “Y* can’t come
over.” “Why not?” “Y’ gotter do ten days’
quarantine.” Then I learned that pneumonic
’flu ’was rampaging through the country and
that N.S.W. had a quarantine law imposed on
border crossings. He pulled away and I sat
on my knot, eyeing the shimmer of the roof
on George Medley’s pub and cursing wars and
their aftermath. That night I swam the river
with shirt and pants tied on my head, made
barefooted for refreshments, only to be grabbed
on the doorstep by the Law, forcibly taken
back to the river and given a choice of return-
ing whence I’d come or doing a fortnight in
the cooler. I swam. Next day the puntman
rowed over, waved me off while he dumped
some tucker and departed. Profanely I made
camp. That night there appeared the dripping
figure of “Piangil” Peters, an old mate, and
on hearing of my financial strength he absorbed
some of it, disappeared with a splash and
presently came back towing a rope. We hauled
its load across and made wassail. By the
third night the Murray was full of swimmers,
all towing ropes, all heading for my camp and
all joining in the spree. Those who couldn’t
get back stayed till they could, what time a
wild-eyed trooper patrolled the northern bank
trying to capture the landing parties. In the
end he did a bit of swimming himself, having
corralled all the oars in the town and locked
them up as a precaution against queries from
the inevitable narks. Last week, having got
into Victoria by ways of which you shall not
know, I made back via Euston. On the
bridge stood the Law, demanding to see my
priority. I had none, and he was adamant.
There could be no crossing. Cursing wars and
their results I retreated, and now, brooding
over the old days, over “Piangil” Peters and
the resource and dash of those days, I sit here
penning this, for I’m too old to swim the river
and it looks as though I’ll have to pay the
£3 this lanky youth is asking to smuggle me
across with his sheep in the morning. My
country, O my country!
* * * *
“H.H.”: I can vouch for redgum
tentacles being guided by that instinct
which roots have for water and good soil
pockets (B. 22/9/’43). * Near Tongar
homestead (mid-Murray) in the 1929-30
drought I put in and irrigated several
garden plots of maize on the parched
sandhill. Old-timers including that
veteran Harry Leslie of Prill—averred
that, with the abnormal low level of the
Murray, the redgums near by would send
out roots, but, as the trees were at least
120 feet away and on a flat 20 or so feet
lower than the sandhill, I didn’t think it
possible. Within three months the roots
were there all right, and as thick as a
finger when we trenched to cut them.
* * * *
“Pine Creek”: “North-west’s” ignition
troubles (B. 22/9/’43) would be lessened
“ Aw, I'm jisl tryin' to earn a few ’onest bob to ’elp back the attack .”
if he did what the abq. does. Get a
length of soft, dry wood to fit
crosswise between the legs when squatted
over the job. Split one end with the
tommy, sliver the split and fasten securely
with pegs to the ground. Fill the crack
with mixed dry grass and Too dung,
ready rubbed to a dust. Now interlock
the fingers and grasp the boomerang or
woomera at one end from above, and,
exerting a downward pressure, saw like
blazes till smoke appears. At this stage
breathe through the mouth, so that the
breath fans the smouldering wood and
wafts incendiary sparks into the tinder,
which should soon ignite. Grasped thus,
there is no involuntary muscular lift; you
merely perspire profusely. But why not
resort to the bow and hardwood arrow
method employed by Boy Scouts? It’s
quicker and far easier,
* * * *
“L.T.”: “Edjudina” (B. 29/9/’43) is
thinking only of northern latitudes when
he mentions goats thriving where sheep
and cows would perish, as on and about
the storm-lashed west coast of Tassie it’s
mostly the reverse. There, more than a
century ago, at the old penal station on
Sarah Island in Macquarie Harbor, the
climate —amongst other things it rains on
more than 300 days a year—killed over
50 per cent, of the goats. In more recent
decades Maatsuyker, that large for-
bidding-looking, mountain-like island
100 miles further south —which inci-
dentally is the southernmost habitation in
the Commonwealth —has found that goats
won’t do there either. Yet cows and
sheep are kept there the same as else-
where, with one difference —it blows so
hard at times that stock have to be
tethered to keep them from wandering
near the high cliff edges and being blown
over.
* * * *
“Nepean”: Noticed recently that a
percentage of the silver gulls outside
Port Phillip Heads have only one leg,
some none at all. On inquiry, the fisher-
men at Queenscliff (Vic.) told me the
barracouta carry out the surgical opera-
tions while the feathery scavengers are
roosting on the waters. Except that it
requires a little more judgment in taking-
off and in landing, the legless birds
don’t appear greatly handicapped either
ashore or afloat.
* * * *
“E. 2”: She was a fluffy young thing,
and it was obvious from her goggle-
eyed curiosity about things rural that it
must have been an astonishing moment
when she discovered" there were places
without concrete paths and air-condition-
ing. At sunset she paused awhile, cap-
tive to the spectacle of miles of white
cockatoos streaming across the horizon
to the gum-tree dormitories of the river
bend. “Gosh,” she murmured huskily.
“Who does that mob belong to?”
* * * *
“Pat Ater”: Our little black native
bee is a tougher ■ beggar than his
lack of a sting suggests. In a hollow
gum-tree near my Blue Mountains
(N.S.W.) fastness there was a nest
of each of these bees, and during a
summer shortage of honey it developed
into a fight for survival. Otherwise they
lived in harmony. Towards the end of
this honey-drought it became -apparent
that the smaller natives had most of .the
tucker, whilst the bigger “Eyeties,” or
whatever nationality they claim, were
scurrying and starving in reduced num-
bers. Explanation came from closer and
concealed observation. As heavily-laden
“brumby” workers returned hive wards,
lumbering along after diligent searches,
each was set on by a tiny black vis-a-vis,
who dive-bombed straight on to the
target and cleanly severed both wings at
one stroke. Then he calmly robbed his
fallen and helpless adversary, adroitly
avoiding stings, and there was one less to
work and feed in the hive of the bigger bees.
* * * *
“C. Coral”: Air transport isn’t new to
the Fuzzy-Wuzzies ; already in their folk-
lore there are legends of strange beings
who flew through the skies bringing vari-
ous new forms of culture ; others are
linked with amatory adventure. In the
Torres Strait Islands one of Jimmy Susu’s
mythical heroes was Soida, who arrived
from New Guinea by canoe but flew
from island to island. He is regarded as
a great benefactor, who instructed the
people in languages, stocked reefs with
the valuable cone shell (which figures
largely in barter), introduced useful,
plants and, incidentally, was greatly at-
tracted to both the maidens and married
women wherever he landed. According
to my friend Jimmy, Soida travelled com-
fortably inside a great frigate-bird, which
also had sufficient accommodation to
carry the aforesaid freight. A good many
things in the field of legend have historic
foundation ; and it doesn’t take long for
the one to be merged in the other.
* * * *
“B.”: Alex. Weatherhead, coming
home, found the river in front of his
property, only a series of waterholes when
he had left three days before, run-
ning a banker. Cooees brought his wife
to the opposite bank, and a tomahawk
and matches were tied to the head of the
collie. Alex, whistled the dog across, cut
a sheet or two of bark for shelter and
soon had the comfort of a fire. Next
morning his wife appeared with hot tea
and cakes in tins, and the dog brought
them across. For the three days that Alex,
was marooned the dog kept the tucker
supplies up. Then, the current being less
strong, cords were tied round the collie,
which “towed” the horse to its boss.
Which confirms my opinion that the
collie ranks high in intelligence and
faithfulness. •
* * * *
“Mat’s Mate”: Like most bush
workers, Mat and I had long since dis-
covered the enjoyment of physical labor
when your muscles are set and the going
is good, also the satisfaction a man gets
from knowing how to do a job and doing
it. It was a source of pride to us that
wherever we’d been every road, fence,
clearing, tank, bridge, shed, yard or other
permanent thing we’d built could stand
as a monument to our strength and skill.
We’d fought with bosses over wages,
tucker, contract prices, methods and
pretty well everything else. On this road
job we struck a bloke with a bitter ex-
pression who eyed Mat’s swinging pace
and snarled “Workin’ y’r innards out.
Makin’ it hard f’r other blokes. A capi-
talist’s pawn. Makin’ profits fr para-
sites.” Mat grinned at him, shook the
good sweat from his forehead and bogged
in. “Lettin’ down the workin’ class,”
went on sour-dial. “Go slow, that’s my
principle. Go slow an’ ” Mat dropped
his pick. “You got any brothers, mate?”
he asked. A bit astonished, the other
answered “Yes, three. Why?” “Older’n
you?” “No, I’m the oldest.” Mat picked
up his pick. “Strike me,” he said in an
awe-struck voice, “your mother must’ve
bin fond of kids.” It took about two
minutes to sink in, and after that we were
left in peace.
* * * *
“M.U.R.”: There’s nothing new about
exploiting the emu’s curiosity (B.
6/10/’43). When I was a kid and the
family pot needed a hunk of emu steak
we did the same as that abo. —went out
and lay low until a mob came in sight.
We used- bits of mirror if the sun was
right, colored rag if it wasn’t, and, short
of such appliances, simply rolled out of
cover and lay and kicked our legs in
the air. But no emu ever walked “steadily
towards” the decoy ; the ones out our
way walked warily round in a wide half-
circle, then walked warily back, the next
semicircle being inside the preceding one.
If your patience lasted the big birds
finally shortened their semicircular ap-
proach until you could let go with stick
or stone.
*** • *
“Horseless Horseman”: I don’t won-
der at Percy Brett’s being miserable in
Mildura because he had nothing to do
(B. 8/9/’43); he and his # three brothers
are the hardest-working bush blokes I
ever met, though of a type all their own.
On a 120-acre block fronting the mid-
Murray, beside that sandhill Major
Mitchell boastfully named Mt. Disper-
sion, they keep 20 acres of currant vines
and more of fruit-trees and lucerne like
a show park. Home educated, they are
experts at everything tliey take on. Nor-
man, the eldest, specialises in stockwork,
Murray in engineering and woolclassing,
Percy in irrigating and Harold in cows ;
a sister does the cooking, while an aged
mother —born there years ago when it
was a coaching-change hotel —is boss. In
round timberwork and at blade-shearing
they are all second to none ; as well, they
make the best of boats, oars, stock-
whips and skin rugs, and their large
homestead is constructed of selected red-
gum and Murray pine, cut and milled by
themselves. They rarely go off the place,
employ no labor, and, as their wants are
few beyond tea and ironwork, they are,
with a wood-burning steam engine for
pumping, practically self-supporting.
Yes, the Brett boys show what can be
done with the mid-Murray’s arid wastes
by means of irrigation and hard work,
and without recourse to subsidies, loans
and huge capital assets. Their 10,240-
acre W.L. lease hard by supports 500
wethers, mostly on a diet of mallee
suckers.
DOGS AND THE MOON.
Why, when the moon is full
And all the night is still,
Do dogs lift up their voices
From plain and dale and hill?
What is it makes them wistful?
What is it makes them cry
When, white and round and silent,
The full moon rides the sky?
Is it the grief of longing
For days when free they ran,
Ere the first wild dog accepted
The doubtful rule of man?
Is it the savage grieving
For quarry, pack and hill;
For a red-tongued leader calling
From some primeval hill?
Who knows? Perhaps they answer
A cry for them alone
Sent by the moon-dogs calling
From crags of frozen stone.
A man has secret moments,
Withdrawn from all his kind,
When he meets the age-old questions.
Groping, lost and blind.
And nameless terror grips him,
And, God, ’twould be a boon
To squat down on his haunches
And bay the careless moon!
N.S.W.
OLD-T MER.


“Jummy Nurse”: The visitor was
anxious to knock over a fox so he could
take the fur home to the city and have
it made, up for his missus. We started
to give him some advice, but stopped
when we saw that he wasn’t listening.
However, we did tell him the most likely
spot to encounter one, whereupon he got
out a brand-new .22 rifle, armed himself
with ammo, and departed. All the morn-
ing we heard the crack of his popgun,
and at lunchtime expected to see him
come in laden with foxes. But all he
carried was a mystified look. He went
off again in the afternoon, and towards
sundown we heard his artillery going
again. That night he came in peltless,
threw his gun into one corner of the
hut, a book after it and went in search
of tucker. Little Curl picked up the
book. It was a threepenny exercise, filled
with cuttings on performances with .22
rifles, practically every cutting headed
“Nairin.”
*■* * *
“K.”: The cunning of the crow is pro-
verbial when it comes to recognising, and
keeping just beyond range of, a man with
a rifle or shotgun; but the sable devil
reaches the peak of sagacity in its atti-
tude to the goanna. I have seen a “foot-
ball jersey” go., on a boiling hot day, lie
immovable out in the open for anything
up to two hours, with Kelly contemplat-
ing him with a cold eye from a near-by
dead tree, but making no hostile move,
the’ bird being well aware that the im-
mediate vicinity of a roused go., even if
the temperature is 130, is an unhealthy
place for a crow. But it is a totally dif-
ferent story if the reptile is supine in a
cleared space on a day in very early
spring. The feathered eye-fancier has it
all worked out that then is an auspicious
time for a blitz, as the go. will be weak
from its long hibernatory snooze.
“Esk D.”: Curly Bob’s thoughts were
far away as he rode through the clump
of timber on the sandhill. The ambling
gait of the chestnut mare, hoofbeats
muffled in the sand, carried him quietly
alongside a big goanna that was basking
on the sunny butt of a greybox. The
startled go. made a quick scramble to
get up the tree, and Bob’s hand went out
in an involuntary grab for its tail. Then
the mare took fright and plunged for-
ward, and the goanna swung out in an
arc and under her belly, where it clawed
for a foothold. A swift buck followed.
Bob was sprawling on the ground and
spitting out sand before he’d even begun
to realise what’d happened, while a dazed
old goanna strained desperately to free
its tail from his grip.
* * * *
“Zake”: “Pullin’ a poor mouth to git
sympathy might work in some places,”
said “Bogong” Brannigan, “but when y’
strike country like Lower Clack Clack —
well, listen. I’m goin’ through there with
me moke, see? We’d both been grass-
feedin’ for weeks; me prad’s hoggin’ for
the sight of a butterbox full o’ chaff with
a sprinklin’ o’ corn through it, and meself
I’d have turned eight handsprings if I’d
sighted even a greasy neck chop. All
I’d collected in a tour o’ that salubrious
locality had been a bagful o’ knockbacks,
and the last joint I try is on the edge of
the thick scrub. Desperate, I tries an
old trick. As the old whiskered bloke
from the joint comes up to get the mail
from the kero.-tin nailed to the stump
at the roadside he sees me standin’ by the
horse, which has green goggles on an’
is sniffin’ a small heap o’ sawdust I’d put
in front of him. The old bird comes up,
dead curious. I explained, real polite,
tellin’ him he ain’t had anything but dead
grass fer three munce, an’ that I’m doin’
me best to kid him it’s somethin’ resem-
blin’ the fodder I couldn’t afford to buy.
He looks at me, dead stern, an’ takes a
sniff at the sawdust. *Y’ ought to be
“Fair go, mister! I gave you the double-header you Won it all with!”
ashamed of y’rself givin’ this to a horse
—there’s lB no nourishment in it at all.
Bring him in.’ He leads us across to
a small shed. Now I know that a cove
who has a good thought, fer a horse ain’t
the type to see a bloke starve, an’ I’m just
wonderin’ what’ll be for dinner when 1
see the shed holds a circular saw run
off a small motor. There’s a heap o’
sawdust on the floor. The old bloke picks
up a handful. ‘That stuff you was givin’
him \yas from grey-box,’ he said. ‘This
is bluegum sawdust —it’s got a better
flavor, is more digestible and is chock-full
of nourishment. Give him two buckets
if he wants it —I got plenty.’ ”
* * * •
“Lower Tops’l”: Tell “No. 1 Bench”
that teak, as well as being the premier
wood for boatbuilding (B. 22/9/’43), also
stands alone for ship fittings.- Twenty-
odd years ago when that veteran builder
Charley Lucas launched the cutter Ronda
at Battery Point, Hobart, he fashioned
the skylight, companion-hatch and rails
out of century-old teak from the dis-
mantled Mulgrave battery. “Teak like
that,” Lucas told me, “will never shrink,”
and in several crossings across Bass
Strait it never did.
* * * *
“B, A. Ker”: The subject was “jibs,”
and the methods advocated for use on
mokes with the miner’s complex were
varied and ingenious. Of course, the
“drop-of-water-in-his-ear” advocate was
in evidence, and the barb-wire-breeching
supporter. The “light-a-fire-under-’em”
theorist was promptly squashed by a chap
whose prad had merely taken three paces
left-incline and halted while a brand-new
hickory wheel went up in smoke. One
fellow contended that if the nag’s fore-
leg were tied up for quarter of an hour
“Y airs, at times I've seen the sky black with them white cockatoos.”
the animal would get heartily sick of
standing on three legs and pine for
action. Another bloke 9 had got results
by inducing the “joey” to step forward
in response to a looped rope or whip-
thong pulling on a fore fetlock. But
when a commercial traveller introduced
turps old Ab, the horsebreaker, snorted
and came in with: “The duck method’s
the best. Get a big lump of a duck and
shove its neck under the moke’s tail-
crupper fashion. The jib, o’ course,
clamps down on it; the duck gets
annoyed, lets out an unearthy squawk,
and the next you see is a prad disap-
pearing over the skyline with a feathered
threshin’ machine hoggin’ the daylights
out of ’im!” That silenced ’em.
* * * *
“Aratta”: At the conclusion of a
“gift” night in the Mechanics, Dad
found himself poorer by several pounds
and the possessor of a collection of —to
him —useless junk which the family had
bought. He stored it in the back of
the car and waited for Munj and the
girls. Outside the darkened hall a mass
of womenfolk, Dad’s amongst them,
stood gabbling, and to Dad’s ears reached
scraps of their chater. “Oh, Mary, how’s
y’r mother these days? Give her my love,
do” ; “Susie, I’m sorry t’ hear y’r sister’s
down with rheumitism —I’ll give y’ a real
good cure for it” ; “Yes, Mrs. Smithers,
I’ll give you that recipe for the sponge
cake y’ asked fer” ; “Now, Alice, if y’
won’t be offended I’ll give y’ a word of
advice” ; “Those words of that song you
liked so much, Clara, I’ll give them t’
you tomorrow.” Dad glared behind at
the collection on the back seat, and said
to young Joe, seated beside him, “Now
I know why the wimmen called this turn-
out a ‘gift’ night. It’s give me the willies.”
* * * *
“M.U.R.”: One of the worst nuisances
about the bush is the man who, as soon
as he gets a few drinks aboard, wants to
start on a snake hunt. Ope of him got
that way in a Victorian pub which had
a lot of pampas-grass in pots about the
place. He went round firing the pampas
to hunt out the snakes and burnt half the
pub down. The worst of it *was there
wasn’t another pub for 30 miles.
Another wanted to burn haystacks for
the same purpose. It took the combined
strength of the farmer and two hired men
to hold him down. A third, finding
somewhere about 20 tons of chaff stacked
on Mildura wharf, set to one Sunday
morning to puli the entire stack down,
and desisted only when somebody pushed
him into the river.
H: * * *
“Bo”: Bill Cox had the pub at Bunny-
burra, and the timbermen who toiled in
the hoop-pine country thereabouts made
up the bulk of his patrons. The pub
faced west, and it was therefore the most
natural thing in the world for those of
them who got sozzled to gravitate to the
front verandah, there to sprawl on the
bench and doze fitfully in the comforting
rays of the late afternoon sun. But the
practice rankled with Bill. He said that
they “made the’joint untidy,” and swore
that he lost the passing accommodation
trade of the commercials, who on sight-
ing the array of disreputable drunks on
the verandah went straight on to Wood-
bend, five miles further on. Bill evolved
a scheme to discourage the practice, and
he tried it out the day “Blue” Maidment,
a big, wild, fiery-haired feller, got a skin-
ful and took up six feet of verandah
space while he slept it off. After about
an hour “Blue” was yanked to a bleary
semi-consciousness by a kero.-tin being
banged heavily by a waddy. As he
struggled to his elbow a weird, spitting
animal with yellow stripes and wearing
bullock’s horns —it was Rastus, the
big ginger cat that Bill had been at work
on —dropped at his feet. Convinced that
he had ’em, “Blue” made a terrified
swipe at the apparition, which promptly
dived into the bar and hopped on to the
counter. The big feller grabbed his
Kelly, which was leaning against the wall,
staggered in after the latest version of the
Tantanoola tiger, and made a terrific
swing. The cat leaped for the safety of
the shelves two seconds before the axe
swept 20 glasses crashing. The second
swipe brought down two bottles of
whisky and two of gin. The next
shot missed the feline’s rudder by a few
inches and buried the axe head deep in
the wood. It was while he was struggling
to wrench it out that Bill and two of his
sober patrons fell on “Blue” and dis-
armed him. Bill’s patrons still have
unrestricted use of the front verandah.
* * * *
“P.A.”: For the fastest animal in the
bushland off the mark and for a covert
run of 20 yards or so I nominate the
kangaroo rat. One of the marsupials
which I started up out of a clump of
wallaby-grass could be discerned only as
a grey streak between tussocks. He made
straight for a hollow, leaning tree-trunk
and left the dogs out of the rase. Next
'to the rat I’ll place the bandicoot, and
then the paddymelon. The latter is so
slick in his nocturnal foraging for scraps
under the house or shed in south Q.
scrub areas that you’ll have him in the
light and next second he’s gone. Such a
friendly cuss should be encouraged, any-
way, if you’ve got your vegetable patch
fenced and storeroom intact. I’m wait-
ing to hear from champions of the
kangaroo, emu, tiger cat, dingo and other
fliers with their claims.
* * * *
“Chuck”: Old Bob was tired of seeing
Brady’s cattle hog all the grass along the
river frontages, so he reported the matter
to the herdsman, who took action.
Riding that way some weeks later Bob
met Jim the herdsman. “I see Brady
keeps them beasts o’ his in the paddock
nowadays,” greeted the official. “So he
■better. I’m goin’ to be pretty strict about
wanderin’ stock in future, see if I ain’t.
Well, s’long. I’m going down country for
a fortnight.” Bob rode on admiring the
fresh grass along the river and wonder-
ing what on earth he’d do for feed when
his calves had finished the bit of crop
they were in at present. Seemed a shame
to waste this frontage grass! Especially
with Jim away! Quickly he unfastened
the wires on his water-way, let them fall,
and rode on whistling. For the next fort-
night he kept strictly away from the
river, only going back the day before the
herdsman was due to return. Passing
Brady’s he swore as he noted the big
man’s wires also down. Trust that cow
not to miss anything! He rounded the
bend, then suddenly stopped, his jaw
dropping stupidly. Where his crop had
been the earth was bare, and Brady’s
bullocks, still contentedly cud-chewing,
testified to the excellence of their feast.
* * * *
“Allwet”: When the new waitress
arrived at the pub Jack, the rouseabout,
sobered up and began to shave regularly.
He opened his campaign with a series of
languishing glances through the kitchen
window and followed them up with an
invitation to “the pitchers.” But when
on a Sunday afternoon she informed him
he was turned down in favor of the local
s.p. merchant Jack decided that a binge
was the correct reaction. The bar was
locked, but some obscure instinct led Jack
to the kitchen. With a long arm he gar-
nered in from the top shelf a bottle of
cooking sherry, some brandy and a dark
ginger bottle which could have contained
either stale whisky or methylated spirits.
He splashed his troubles into a quart
measuring glass and sipped the nightmare
broth. It was not quite to his taste. His
wild eye alighted on a small bottle he
had overlooked, and he upended it over
his glass. The boss found him out to
it an hour later. Next morning Jack
appeared wanly in the bar and croaked
for a drink. The boss filled a glass, “No
wonder you’re crook,” he commented.
“What a mixture! Sherry, brandy,
whisky” Jack waved a hand in dis-
gust. * “That stuff never hurt me,” he
said; “I’ve been drinking it all me life.
It was that blasted vanilla essence I put
in that settled me.”
RIDEOUT’S LAND.
Sweep of a hundred valleys with rocks and
boulders piled, , ,
The sheerness of the cliffsides —the scrub-belts
dark and wild! , , ,
Here when the storms have broken a thousand
floods have flowed; .... .
A rugged land of grandeur, this land where
Rideout rode.
Full many men when fortune smiled have flung
aside the reins , ,
And left some hired hand to guard the ranges
and the plains, . . .
And sought while still the spirit sang the hie
where ease is met,
But Rideout loved the wild blue miles he won
with honest sweat.
Across the silver foothills on a clear golden
The cliffs fling the sunlight back from
fifty miles away;
Here where red dogs have wandered and moun-
tain cattle lowed,
And legends gild the high blue hills that rear
where Rideout rode.
Strange stories these of mustering trips, of wild
bulls tossed and tied,
And mobs won from the mountainsides where
few but he would ride,
Of blood-like mares that roamed the wilds,
projid colts'whose destiny
Was his light touch of bridle-hand, the pres-
sure of his knee.
Jack Rideout’s gone where horsemen but
he has left behind
A tall lean son with honest brows to meet the
racing wind;
A son with proven bridle-hand, true to the
Rideout code,
To watch and ward the lonely miles, wild
miles that Rideout rode.
QUEENSLAND.
LEX McLENNAN.


d
but civilian requirements of Aus-
tralian-made Radiotrons have not been
neglected. Most widely used types are
available, but if the particular valve you
want is not obtainable, consult your Radio-
Iron dealer regarding an alternative type.
RADIOTROM
THE WORLD'S STANDARD RADIO VALVE
AMALGAMATED WIRELESS VALVE CO. PTY. LTD.
Australian, Mercantile, Land & Finance
Company, Limited
(INCORPORATED IN ENGLAND IN 1863)
WOOL, FAT STOCK, STORE AND STUD STOCK,
PRODUCE AND PROPERTY SALESMEN
General Manager for Australia: R. SINCLAIR SMITH,
ADVANCES MADE ON GRAZING PROPERTIES, ON STOCK, AND ON
CONSIGNMENTS OF WOOL, SKINS, HIDES, TALLOW. ETC.
ALSO AT
GENERAL
LICENSED AUCTIONEERS, STOCK AND STATION AGENTS.
SYDNEY OFFICE: A. M. MURDOCH, Manager.
MELBOURNE, BRISBANE, NEWCASTLE, WAGGA, HENTY, HAY, MOREE,
TOWNSVILLE, CHARLEVILLE, BUENOS AIRES, LONDON.
AGENTS IN NEW SOUTH WALES FOR NORTHERN ASSURANCE CO.. LTD.
EGELABRA MERINOS
RAMS FOR SALE
APRIL, DROP. SHORN APRIL, 1943.
NOW READY FOR DELIVERY.
Early application is advised for these Rams,
which are very suitable for Spring and Summer
Joining.
PRICE: FIVE to TEN GUINEAS.
1 tr
/
vTf
H. E. KATER & SON,
EGELABRA : : TEL.: WARREN 10 :: WARREN, N.S.W.
THE MAN ON
THE LAND
"DON'T WORRY. I'M SENDING IT TO
GRAZCOS."
Dusty Wools.
“Murrawong”: In N.S.W. classing
wools from red sandy districts presents
many problems. There can be no hard-
and-fast rules for the classing of any clip,
i much less for those from country where the
changing seasons have so great an effect,
even changing a thin, wasty, low-yield-
ing half-warp to a full warp, bulky. Well-
nourished staple several counts stronger.
Prevalence of burr and seed varies con-
siderably.
For a western clip a greater proportion
of shed-hands to shearers is required. If
the fleeces are very sandy, those from the
shorter-woolled, older sheep will be hard
to spread on the wool-tables in one piece,
and, unless there are sufficient rouseabouts
and tables, skirting will be haphazard
and much free wool will find its way
into the pieces and vice versa. A classer
finds it hard enough to decide whether
a dusty back should be removed or left
in the fleece. To teach a shed-hand the
job is a stiff problem.
A classer must know what these wools
look like when opened up. Western
fleeces which look bright in the bins
often, by the time they have reached the
show-floor, become permeated with dust
from the tip and are hard to recognise
as the wools that left the shed. Most
western wools are shorn early and sold
while the classer is busy in other parts.
Except on rare occasions he is seldom
able to check-up on his work, which is a
pity. Often when the wool is opened up
there is very little difference in appear-
ance between fleece lines and backs, and
the broker asks why. He doesn’t know
what the fleece looked like in the shed.
Many backs look almost as good as
fleeces on the show-floor because the
backs have been carelessly taken out in
the shed. If a lot of clean wool has been
pulled out with them the average yield
and appearance will be affected, and the
classer’s reputation suffers. Dusty backs
should not be skirted out in the same
way as burry skirts. After skirting the
fleece the man on one side should throw
his side across to his mate, thus doubling
the fleece along the line of the back.
He should then lean across and rake the
dusty portion out with his fingers. All
dusty wool will come away in this
manner; clean wool won’t yield to the
treatment.
A New Fly Dressing.
“J.R.D.”: The perfect dressing must
(1) kill all maggots, (2) prevent restrike,
(3) be non-poisonous, (4) must not irri-
tate the wound or cause a hard scab, (5)
be easy to apply and (6) cheap.
One of the best was glycerine diborate,
but it was too dear, and war made the
use of glycerine prohibitive. To replace
it the C.S.I.R. brought out camphor
boracic emulsion, good and much
cheaper. But when Japan came into the
war supplies of camphor oil were cut off.
After the outbreak of war the C.S.I.R.
brought out BTB-15, one of the safest,
cheapest and best dressings, ideal since
it could be made up in powder form with
a small container of liquid and needed
only water to make a first-rate dressing.
As water took up approximately 80 p.c.
of the weight it meant a big saving in
freight and got over the shortage of
drums or tins -for containers.
Dressings are apt to be judged too
hastily. If maggots immediately turn
up their toes the dressing is acclaimed.
But chemicals which kill maggots im-
mediately may have a bad effect on the
sheep. They may not kill the sheep as
they do the maggot, but often cause pain
and irritation, retard healing and make
a hard scab, under which the fly gets
more eggs. BTB-15, a tar oil, didn’t do
that, but because it gave some of the
maggots a chance to get away demands
were made for a quick killer which
wouldn’t affect the sheep.
The C.S.I.R. replied with BKB, which
uses the main ingredients of BTB-15. It
is much more complicated to manufac-
ture, has a high proportion of liquid
chemicals in its composition and will
have to be supplied in liquid form, either
as a concentrate or ready for use, pos-
sibly the latter, as the C.S.I.R. reports
that it is more stable in this form. Still,
manufacture and marketing would be
fairly simple if it were not for regulations
requiring permits to be obtained from
umpteen different departments,- shortage
of labor for manufacture and difficulty
of obtaining drums or tins. All these
factors will add to the cost, and freight
will bring it in line with other liquid fly
dressings. It will not be a serious rival
to BTB-15 while these conditions exist.
Milk for Cheese.
“H.C.”: Don’t include colostrum in
the milk till 10 days after calving, nor
milk produced 15 days or less before
calving. Milk of aborted cows makes
cheese bitter. That of cows suffering
from mastitis, three-day sickness or any
other disease should be excluded.
Watch production methods. Wet hand
milking and dirty cows breed trouble.
Use clean rinsing water with a chlorine
preparation and dry with clean cloths.
Milk the first three or four squirts into a
can; may contain teat-duct organisms.
Dismantle the separator twice daily
and sterilise with boiling water; thor-
oughly cleanse strainers, buckets, coolers
and cans ; scrub benches regularly ; keep
wash-up troughs, draining racks and
boilers well flushed out; maintain equip-
ment in good repair; toss out rusty
utensils; paint or limewash buildings at
intervals; remove droppings daily to
reduce dust.
Impure water causes ropy and slimy
milk. Don’t let ground around water
troughs become boggy. Water tanks con-
taminated with manure need washing
out with chlorine.
Overripe milk comes from lack of
proper cooling or from exposure of the
cans to the sun. Churned milk results
when the night milk isn’t stirred, when
night milk and morning milk are mixed,
or the milk is jolted over rough roads.
Taints come often from weeds. Let
the cows graze on suspect areas imme-
diately after milking and take them off
some hours before milking. Control
flavors of lucerne, clover, silage or
mouldy feed the same way. Storing in
bad atmosphere, contact with new rubber,
pungent cleansers or disinfectants can
develop “off” flavors. Watering or skim-
ming milk lowers cheese yield. Either
can be detected by the lactometer.
Chemical preservatives affect the action
of rennet and acidity and increase losses.
Such milk should be rejected by the
cheese maker.
Making Silage.
“Plane Creek”: Deaths have been
caused by gases from vegetable matter
in silos. Carbon dioxide is the common-
est, but other gases are sometimes gen-
erated, some of them inflammable.
Only fully-matured forage should be
used, and it should not be very dry.
Immature fodder is likely to ferment and
generate gas. The fodder should be
packed or trampled down firmly to ex-
clude air and so prevent gas forming,
and this treading should always be done
before work ends at dusk. Very dry
fodder won’t pack. If there is any chance
of the fodder sinking below the level of
the bottom of the silo door no door
should be sealed. 1 .
Before beginning in a partly-filled silo
the lowest door should be openfed to allow
gases to escape. If a blower is being
Used it should be employed for a few
minutes to blow away fumes. If no
blower, the silo should not be touched
for a fair period following the opening
of the lowest door. Should gas be sus-
pected use a fowl for testing the atmo-
sphere. A lighted candle may cause a
fire.
Prairie Grass.
“Pat Ater”: It’s regarded by Queens-
land dairymen as one of the best fodder
grasses. There, they go to the trouble
of enclosing the paddock until it has a
chance to get properly established and
with a good rootstock before grazing it.
Even then care must be exercised against
too heavy grazing. Given an open go
stock will eat prairie grass to its crown
every time it shoots, and ofteh kill it out.
That’s the trouble with getting it into
open mixed pastures where unrestricted
grazing is allowed. Again and again I’ve
seen it thriving in enclosed country lawns,
where it romps through buffalo and couch
and takes charge, though cut often. In
the grazing paddocks none can be seen.
What little escapes is eaten so ravenously
in preference to most other pastures, even
ryes and clovers, that it fails to get set.
That happens on the south-west slopes
of N.S.W. and in Blue Mountain areas.
The lesson is obvious. Prairie grass is a
splendid and succulent fodder, well worth
sowing and protecting. Try it with Wim-
mera rye and white clover in coastal to
moderate climates. A straight-out prairie
patch for rotational grazing is also worth
considering. Sow that on ploughed and
lightly-harrowed ground and use about
61b. to the acre. Prairie will grow and
thrive from late winter and early spring
till well into summer if carefully grazed.
It has a strong tendency to run to seed
in spring if grown unchecked. The
carbohydrate content is high and cattle
seek if for that reason. Balanced witH
clover the feeding would be good.
Prairie grass isn’t hard to grow in open
grassland if sown thickly enough to pre-
vent its being eaten out—and if it gets
early protection. Use the scarifier and
broadcast in a good season. It likes
ample moisture and will thrive on it.
French Beans.
“Plane Creek”: French beans bear
heavily in a deep rich loam in an open
situation. The dwarf sorts are popular,
but where a good, strong trellis or wire-
netting fence is available climbers should
not be overlooked. Plant in rows 12in.
apart, and allow 6in. between plants, A
mixture of super., sulphate of potash and
dried blood will do a lot of good, but
horse or cow manure, wood ashes and
organic matter from a compost heap will
stimulate growth if the former mixture
isn’t available.
Bean fly isn’t too active from June to
October, but if beans are sown at any
other period of the year, they will very
likely be attacked unless regularly sprayed
with a solution of 6j fl. oz, white oil,
1 fl. oz. nicotine sulphate, and 4gal.
water. First spraying should be when the
plants are three days old, then three days
later and every four days afterwards
until the beans come into bearing. Forty
gallons of spray will do an acre; only
the upper surfaces of the leaves need be
sprayed. Some growers recommend a
phenyl solution as a bean-fly deterrent;
the writer has used a Condy’s solution
with success.
Hints for the Farm.
“B. 4”: Have had horses contract
swamp cancer through striped brown
leeches attaching themselves to the bellies
of the mokes as they stoked up on suc-
culent swamp plants. The following treat-
ment removed the cancer and left no scar.
Cut a piece of paper the size of the can-
cerous sore, and dust arsenic on paper.
Slap this on the cancer and press upward
till paper adheres. Then get the tar brush
and paint lower side of paper and around
the area, to stop the nag from biting as
the arsenic burns. It may be necessary
to re-tar once or twice. In about three
weeks the paper falls off and a few weeks
more sees a new growth of hair. In the
Gulf country we used nothing else.
“Steve”: When confronted with deep-
rooted noxious growths such as Cali-
fornia thistle, wild turnip, etc., a good
plan is to build a haystack over the
patch, if it is not extensive. The pest
will be smothered most effectively.
“W.M.H.”: To end weevil troubles:
When finished dipping with an arsenic-
base sheepdip, put' away, after stirring
well in the tank, a few gallons of the mix-
ture for use as needed for painting on
sheepskins. Spread skins out on floor,
woolly side down (the battens in the pens
make a good place), and apply liberally.
“B.”: Cow or poultry droppings make
good liquid manure. Use an old cask
and allow 21b. manure to a gallon of
water; tie up in sacking, and suspend in
the cask for two or three days. A pound
of soot per gallon of water can be used
in the same way. Don’t apply liquid
manure to dry beds ; water them first.
“L.C.”: Root out Johnson grass. It’s
a relative of the sorghum group and its
record as a cattle poisoner is bad. It’s a
free seeder and spreads by underground
stems as well. In irrigation country it
will overrun the place if let go. You need
a good two-horse plough to get it out.
“E. 2”: Applications of lime, if broad-
cast over the vegetable plot at night, have
the extra advantage of destroying slugs
and other pests. Two or three light dress-
ings on slug-ridden ground in early
spring clean up myriads of infant slugs
before much growth and cover for them
is established.


for Inflamed lyes and Eyelids ... Sold Everywhere
H.Rose* Co..Ply.. Ltd.. King Street. Sydney.
Pelmanism
Scientific Training of Mind, Memory and Personality
H.M. Forces
160 admirals and generals and
nearly 100,000 other ranks have
taken the Pelman Course.
Approved by the War Office.
A gratifying feature of our relations
with students is the friendly communi-
cations we receive from time to time
from Pelmanists who completed the
course years ago. An extract from one
such letter is included below.
SOLDIER —24th April, ’42;- “It is grati-
fying to realise the difference Pelmanism has
made in my Army life as evidenced in
many new friendships, for instance.”
TEACHER—22nd May, ’42: “I have taken
a fresh grip on things. I used to dread
Inspections, and stew over them before and
after. I am now looking forward to this
year’s Inspection.”
SOLDIER —14th May, ’42: “The Course
has improved me wonderfully, especially in
regard to observation and general efficiency.”
CLERK—Ith April, ’42: “In an early
lesson you said that there is no magic in
Pelmanism. I can only say, from the peace
of mind and increased efficiency I have.enjoyed
since studying Pelmanism, that it takes on
the appearance of magic.”
SOLDIER— I7th May, ’42: “My past
training in Pelmanism has stood me in good
stead since joining the A.I.F. There is
ample opportunity here for the application
of the Pelman principles of living.”
MEDICAL STUDENT—9th May, ’42:
“I find myself improved in decisiveness and
concentration, which have combined to Vastly
Increase my self-confidence.”
AIR FORCE— IBth May, ’42: “I took the
Pelman Course in September, ’35. It proved
to be an outstandingly-wise decision on my
part.... I have improved and increased my
earning capacity in the last six and a half
years....l have enthusiastically recommended
the Pelman Course to hundreds.”
BOOT TRADE—I2th May, ’42: “Each
lesson has shown me more grounds for im-
provement and my aims have become clearer.
I applied for the Course to obtain social
ease, but quickly saw the wisdonj of your
advice to aim at all-round development.”
SOLDIER —Ist May, ’42: “I undertook
the Pelman Course to overcome a bad
memory, and I am making good progress.
Yesterday I had to learn the Morse Code,
and I made astonishing progress. To-day
there are only two letters of which I am not
quite certain.”
The Headquarters of the Pel man
Institute are in London.
The Institute has been established in
Melbourne under the same direction
for over 31 years.
The staff of the Pelman Institute is fully aware of the present need
for intensification of effort, and it sets out with each pupil to get
as quickly as possible to the core and substance of his individual
requirements.
Speed and Accuracy
The first thing Pelmanism does is to quicken the perceptions so
that we are more intensely aware of what is around us and about us.
We see more, and we see it more quickly and accurately. In conse-
quence, there is a great access of confidence in our ability to acquire
exact knowledge, remember it and recall it as required. We learn
to trust our sense perception.
. The way to development of inherent qualities and aptitudes is
then open and relatively smooth and easy for the normal man and
yvoman. The more important of these qualities are
Observation Self-Confidence Concentration
' Will-Power Judgment Initiative
Decision Organisation Social Ease*
and a THOROUGHLY DEPENDABLE MEMORY
for faces, figures, names, appointments, prices
and useful data of every kind.
The exercises are pleasant and each has its special purpose.
The Pelman Course is a real training, its primary object being to create
good habits of mind and memory in place of careless and slovenly
ones, to train the conscious and the subconscious so that every
faculty will, when called upon, contribute its share in making a
good performance of anything that has to be done.
There are over half a million Pelmanists, of whom more than 50,000 have
enrolled with the Institute in Melbourne.
We shall be glad to send readers of The Bulletin a copy
of “The Efficient Mind,*’ 76 pages, cost free. Your inquiry
will be regarded as a confidential communication; we have
no outside representatives.
The Pelman Institute
3 Gloucester House, 396 Flinders Lane
(Cr. Market St.), Melbourne.
Telephone: MU2355. Telephone or personal calls are welcomed.
Note: Those who do not wish to cut The Bulletin are advised that “The Pelman Institute,
Melbourne,” is sufficient address.
New Zealand Inquirers.
The Pelman Institute, with
the approval of the Reserve
Bank, has made arrangements to
meet the financial restrictions
and enable residents of New
Zealand to enrol for the Pelman
Course of Training without
delay. Write in the first instance
to the Pelman Institute. Mel-
bourne.
r —~
r To the Pelman Institute, 3 Gloucester House,
' 396 Flinders Lane, Melbourne.
Please send me, post-free, a copy of “THE EFFICIENT
■ MIND.”
I Name
(Address
151
m
h.
*?■??
2^:
m
10 for 1/1
20 for 2/2
Always fresh • .
Always /smooth
K
Carreras Ltd— ls 4 Years* Reputation for Quality
##
A foolish spender is a traitor.
The right place for your money
is in £lO National Savings Bonds!
5064 3
UNCABLED ADDITIONS
Grim Days for Europe.
(From an “Atlantic Monthly" article.)
In Europe General Hunger and his
lieutenants. Disease and Exhaustion, are
on the march.
Failure of the fisheries in Norway
opens prospect of famine next winter and
adds to the problems created by the
presence of nearly 400,000 German troops
and evacuees from bombed districts of
the Reich. The Germans take priorities
on all food everywhere. Civilian Norway
has a ration 50 per cent, less than mini-
mum requirements for health.
Famine hag-rides Holland. Yet the
Dutch underground is pressing its cam-
paign for crop reductions and is waging
tireless war on Germany’s storage depots.
The apparent paradox is easily explained.
Last year the Germans stole 330,000 tons
of vegetables from the Netherlands. This
year they are demanding for the Reich
nearly four-fifths of all food grown. The
stubborn Dutch are retorting with an
epidemic of arson and crop destruction.
In Belgium the civilian mortality rate
has jumped to four times its pre-war
average, because of diseases induced by
hunger and exhaustion. The average
birth weight of Belgian children has
dropped one-third, while children’s
diseases rage among the juvenile popu-
lation. The German scourge has stripped
Bohemia and Moravia of all edible fats ;
German requisitions of fodder are wiping
out Czech cattle.
Crows, sparrows and dogs are being
eaten in parts of France, where regis-
tered cases of tuberculosis have passed
the million mark. Bushes are being eaten
in Greece. In the Baltic States, the
plague of hunger is complicated by
typhus, while muffled civil war rages
between partisans of a post-war Russian
connection and champions of national-
istic revival.
Britain and Russia.
(From an article by N.Y. “World-Telegram”
editor Roy W. Howard, lately in England.)
The British accept it as a fact that
there can be no permanent peace in
Europe except a peace in which Russia
is a co-operating partner. It is believed
that, with her need for tremendous in-
ternal development, a lasting peace will
be as much desired by Russia as by any
other nation.
While it may be wishful thinking, there
is a disposition to take seriously Stalin’s
dissolution of the Comintern. It is re-
called that his break with Trotsky was
credited to Stalin’s belief that success of
the Russian revolution was not dependent
on world revolution. Stress is laid on the
persistent reports that Russia is swinging
away from the pattern of the old Bol-
sheviks and is steadily reverting to capi-
talistic practices. This furnishes a com-
fortable, even though not a very well
documented, idea to cling to for the
present.
An extremely well informed English-
man expressed the British attitude toward
Communism as follows:
“Adherence to the tenets of Commu-
nism by a Russian falls entirely within
the bounds of patriotism because to sup-
port Communism in Russia means sup-
port and maintenance of the national
Government. In contrast adherence to
the principles of Communism by an Eng-
lishman or an American means advocacy
of the overthrow of the established and
accepted Government.”
Meantime, there is little or no worry
over the possible development of Com-
munism in England. The recent cold and
emphatic turndown by the British Labor
party of the Communist party’s plea for
admission is accepted as proof that British
Labor and its leaders are as much op-
posed to Communism as is British capital.
Sanctuary for War Criminals.
(From a N.Y. “Herald Tribune” article.)
In this war the United Nations are
fighting to maintain what is left of the
law of nations, and to establish more
firmly the bases of law in relations among
the States of the world.
There are no precedents which make in-
dividuals, even heads of States, responsible
for their offences against international
law. Hence there is no legal necessity for
one nation to deliver up such a criminal
to justice. To establish such a principle,
covering the acts of Governments as well
as individuals, should be the task of the
world in the peace. To apply that pm-
ciple retroactively would be to violate a
nnncinle of justice which is at least
equally 6 imponant~and which is . cm-
bodied in the American constitutional
p“ n ° £ t ? "“trjtzs
for war
emotional eye.
On Dragon's Peninsula.
[This first-hand account of a few days of
the fighting on Dragon s Peninsula, New
gSTW a d &S £££%'%**&
men who are fighting in the jungles go through.]
“The air distance from our landing
point to our objective was two and a half
F .. „ •, „ L . + i, r^llrr u i.mflp we
frfhfee miles, through the jungle we
had to travel thirteen es
up to oui necks m mire. We us p
our ‘last energy several times. It you
couldn’t keep going there was no one
to help you and you dropped out.
“From the blackest hole I’ve ever seen,
right in the jungle, we started the march
about 6 a.m July 5, going single file m
a very long line. ™e Japanese said i
couldnt be done, but we did it. Went
right through marshy jungle and swamp
-even the sides of the.UMMn swampy
“The morning of July 6 we still were
lighters and even our extra knives.
“It rained like hell. Foot trouble came
first. Feet swelled and big water blisters
came up We went single file aU the wa y.
Sometimes we forded streams on logs,
sometimes we were nulling ourselves
ih“ eS ta„Vled undergrowth by our
hands.
“It was plain torture. By the night of
the seventh we were caffymg nothing but
our guns, ammunition and essential gear,
W( . s had 'eaten our last rations. There
a|l arolmdj bu , none t 0 driak .
mec jj ca j o ffi cers wouldn’t let us.
“The late afternoon of the seventh we
(L e jj Japanese outpost—just a small
watch station—and it was eliminated
quickly. There I got my first smell of
dead Japanese (probably killed in a recent


Ruwolt
i
a
55«
Size 60in. x 48in. Type RK Ruwolt Jaw Crusher ;
Finished Weight 135 Tons.
Recently designed and built by Ruwolt’s for the Broken
Hill Proprietary Company Limited, the Crusher illustrated
is a good example of .the “heavy” type of engineering work
produced by Ruwoll’s.
Although now mainly engaged on munition work we are
also able to execute much of the requirements for the essentikl
Metal, Paper and Rubber Industries.
Then, when Australia has successfully overcome its
present difficulties, we will again be in a position to immediately
attend to all your requirements, similarly to what we have done
in the past.
CHARLES RUWOLT PTY. LTD.
530 Victoria Street, Richmond, E.l
Victoria, AUSTRALIA.
Food for services and civilians de*
mands fodder, and fodder demands
binder twine at call when the crop is
ready to'harvest. The supply of
binder twine for binding essential
hay crops is another responsibility of
Australian rope and twine factories,
which serve operational areas and the
home front in a thousand needs.
This girl of the Australian Women’s Land Army helps to harvest
the hay crop which feeds her cows and sheep—our food frontdine.
... a national industry ,
in the national effort
bombing), and, believe me, it is a smell
that stays with yon.
“The night of the seventh we destroyed
a bigger Japanese post and captured some
wormy rice and biscuits.
“The morning of the eighth there was
a sudden burst from snipers in the trees
above us. They caused some casualties,
but our men got rid of ’them by spraying
the foliage v|ith machine-guns. We went
on in the muddy jungle and, feeling the
lack of food, dug in to let the others
catch up with us.
“Midday of the ninth we reached the
Japanese defences at Enogai. There the
enemy was well dug-in, and held out until
the afternoon of the tenth. Our mortars
got them, however —broke their morale.
Our hospital corps men went in under
direct fire to administer first aid to our
wounded.
“We got into a Japanese supply shack
and got some dry clothes and good rice
and salmon, and four or five bottles of
sake (rice wine) which helped out the
evening considerably,
“The Japs had a lot of sweet-smelling
lotions and a surprisingly large amount
of pornographic stuff.
“The next three days we caught hell
from the air—a lot of anti-personnel
daisy-cutters that went off when they hit
the trees. A single ’plane or two dropped
bombs every now and then through the
night just to keep us awake. That was
tough on our wounded, but I never heard
a single squawk.”
Dragnet Digest.
(Condensed from various acknowledged sources.)
As military leaders see it an end to the war,
is not yet in sight. Bombing alone will be inade-
quate to win the' war. There finally will be
realisation that the fight ahead will* be long and
hard and costly. Summer probably will bring
distressing news of losses as the fighting spreads.
It will become clear how slow is the progress
toward Berlin and Tokyo. —'‘‘United States
News:”
* * * *
Our [U.S.] citizens cannot give to the world
(1) freedom of speech and expression, (2) free-
dom of every person to worship God in his
own way, (3) freedom from want, and C4) free-
dom from fear. The whole conception of
giving or infusing the Four Freedoms univer-
sally is preposterous. It is not idealism. It is
sheer political bunkum, and is so recognised
abroad. —Henry J. Taylor; “Reader’s Digest.”
* * * #
Canadian military authorities in London give
an estimate of over ten thousand marriages as.
having taken place in Britain between English
girls and Canadian serving men since the war
began. A Canadian correspondent has pub-
lished the figure of 12,000. — Manchester “Guar-
dian.”
v- * * *
Sir Walter Womersley, Minister of* Pensions,
told a Manchester audience that on one occa-
sion German aeroplanes, by dropping 230 mines
round Britain’s coasts in one night, stopped all
shipping, but by two o’clock the next afternoon
minesweepers had cleared the whole field and
shipping went on its course again.— London
“Times.”
4= 4= 4= *
The Japanese have long prepared for the
counter-offensive against them. All the evidence
goes to show that their pattern of development
in the Greater East Asia Co-prosperity Sphere
has been one of building a fortress within a
fortress. They have steadily built up their inner
defences—in Japan, Manchuria, North China
and Formosa. To these areas they have brought
the spoils of war. Here Japan expects to be
able to resist for many years, even if the newly-
won territories are lopped off. — “Atlantic
Monthly.”
±
China’s losses are painfully obvious —all her
best cities and most of her coastline in Japanese
hands; hundreds of towns and villages devas-
tated by air raids; six millions of her people,
it is said, but no one exactly knows, killed
or dead in fleeing from their homes before the
savage invader. And at present she is the worst
blockaded country in the world. Her allies
can send her only a trickle of the supplies she
needs; while loss of trade and appalling in-
flation have gravely hurt her internal economy
and weigh heavily on her ever-necessitous
people. Nothing in all the story of the world
war is more admirable than the dauntless. en-
durance with which China has fought on since
the loss of Burma, unshaken in her faith in
ultimate victory. Herein is something far
stronger than the deliberately cultivated fanati-
cism of the Japanese, first cousin to hysteria.—
O. M. Green; London “Fortnightly.”
* * * *
Russia is being advised of plans that the
U.S.A, is shaping for Italy and the Balkans,
but is not being consulted in advance with re-
gard to the formulation of these plans. This
is in line with Russia’s policy of giving little
or no inkling of her plans to U.S. or Britain.
—“United States News.”
* * 4= 4=
As to immediate post-war attitudes this much
is becoming clear: U.S. and Britain are not
out for world economic reform; are not in the
business of promoting revolutions, of changing
class relationships, of forcing the “haves” of a
defeated nation to divide up with the “have-
nots.” There is no crusade against monarchy
in this war like that of the last. The U.S.-
British approach is the very practical one of
dealing with those who can deliver, of recog-
nising authority where it exists, of restraining
excesses. In the case of Italy, this means the
constitutional monarchy is to be recognised for
the time being. Revolutionary elements will
be kept in check. Labor won’t get control.
Control of industry, of banking, of trade will
be only moderately changed. It’s very prob-
able that the post-war world, as shaped by
U.S.-Britain, will not be so different from the
pre-war. That is where differences with Russia
may lie. That’s why the question of who gets
to Berlin first may be very important.— “ United
States News.”
* * * *
The United States can’t find out much about
Siberia, nor apparently can any plans be laid
looking toward help from Russia in our major
war with Japan. But Russia is asking for
technical information and the rights to various
patented articles and much of our information
qf a secret nature relating to aircraft construc-
tion. Russia is rather insistent about it, too,
and the British and American Governments evi-
dently have felt that there was nothing else to
do during the war but give whatever Stalin asks.
Many a gesture has been made to please and
appease the Moscow Governrrient even at the
expense of other vital areas of war. Maybe
Messrs. Churchill and Roosevelt can find the
answer to this thorny question. Certainly it is
not an easy one to solve. — American syndicate
writer David Lawrence.
* 4= 4= *
During the last year Norway lost more than
100 ships, representing more than 750,000 dead-
weight tons of shipping carrying United Nations
cargoes. It has lost a very substantial part of
the fleet that escaped from the Axis. Greece
has lost more than 1,000,000 of the 1,800,000
gross tons of shipping turned over to the Allies.
Four thousand preek seamen have gone with
their ships. • A remarkable sacrifice of shipping
facilities, especially since their country is not
a member of the United Nations, was made by
the Free Danes. When they threw their lot in
with the United Nations the Free Danes brought
along 800,000 tons of shipping. Much of this
has been lost and 1032 of the 5000 Danish mer-
chant seamen who came over to the United
Nations have perished at sea. — U.S. Office of
War Information report. *
•I* »f*
Germany did not lose the First World War
because it was betrayed from within. It lost
it because the German Army, though still on
foreign soil, was thoroughly beaten, and knew
it. — N.Y. “Times.”
* 4= * 4;
By the end of 1943 the U.S.A. will have
produced 91,000,000 tons of steel in 12 months
—the greatest output of the No. 1 war material
the world has ever seen. — N.Y. “Times.”
4= 4= * 4:
If Germany had accumulated or controlled as
much oil as she needed to ensure victory she
would not have risked everything, and bled her
armies white, in order to reach the Caucasus
oilfields. And yet, after two years of catas-
trophic struggle, she has secured not one barrel
from that quarter, while expending oceans in
the attempt. The ‘only other source under her
control is the Rumanian field, which has
already been harried by American bombers, and
doubtless will be again often. Synthetic pro-
duction remains, but the R.A.F. is increasingly
attending to that. Need we look much further
for an explanation of Germany’s progressive
loss of punch on land, sea and air, and does it
not illumine the strange new doctrine of her
spokesmen that the smaller the fortress of
Europe the more “defensible” it will be?
Certainly static warfare, with shrinking or par-
alysed communications, would be economical
of fuel, but it spells disaster, not victory.— Lord
Lee of Fareham; London “Times” letter.
* 4= * *
The Russian Army has abandoned its practice
of picking officers from the ranks and has re-
introduced the “officers’ corps.” Under a
Government decree dated July 24, heroism
alone will not be primarily a qualification for
promotion. Instead, promotions will be con-
ferred principally on graduates of special courses
in military schools and on those who display
pronounced qualities of leadership and skill.
— U.S. United Press Moscow correspondent.
* * * *
The Chinese soldier gets a rice allowance,
adequate if transport works according to plan,
otherwise irregular, which is ' equivalent to a
bread allowance in any other country. He
gets also $35, Chinese currency, a month for
his other needs, including whatever supplemen-
tary food he wants. But the purchasing power
of that pay is now about 35 cents. It will not
buy the firewood' to cook the rice. A regi-
mental commander’s pay of about S4OO a
month has a purchasing power of $4 —or about
half that in our currency. Obviously, the com-'
munities in which these men are quartered have
to contribute to their keep; and it is easy to
see how there would be discontent all around.
Living and working conditions among other
classes, from top to bottom, are no better.
Everywhere they create a nervous strain,
greater than any fear of Japanese pressure,
which is not unendurable when there is action
or even promise of it, but which may do almost
anything to the individual or the group if a
promise fades. — N.Y. “Herald Tribune.’'’
* -1= * *
While only three States —Kansas, Oklahoma
and Mississippi —now have State-wide prohibi-
tion, advocates of making the nation bone-dry
say they are sure of victory before long. There
is no thought of another prohibition amend-
ment, with the intense opposition it would
arouse. Rather a steady, perhaps it would be
accurate to say a stealthy, advance toward out-
lawing liquor is planned, and is now gaining
ground at a startling rate. Local option is the
method. Of 12,000 elections held since repeal
the drys have won nearly 8000. — N.Y. “Herald
Tribune:”
* * * *
One of the most delightful diversions of the
times is to see Wendell Willkie giving away
other people’s empires. He has given India
back to the Indians, Ceylon, Hong Kong and
Burma back to the original owners and warned
the Dutch that they must give up Java.
Churchill and the Queen of Holland do not
seem impressed. I note, however, Willkie says
nothing about Hawaii, the Panama Canal Zone,
the Philippines, Porto Rico and the naval bases
the United States has acquired. This is “em-
piring,” too. Are we going to hand them
back to whoever wants them? — Benjamin De-
Casseres; N.Y. “Journal-American.”


Legal Notice.
IN THE ESTATE of THOMAS WILLIAM
DALTON late of Rongotea in the Provincial
District of Wellington in New Zealand Farmer.
—PURSUANT to an Order made by a Judge
of the Supreme Court of New Zealand at
Palmerston North on the 15th day of July 1943
all persons claiming to be next-of-kin and en-
titled to share in the estate of the abovenamed
deceased and in particular brothers and/or
sisters (or the children of such brothers and/or
sisters) of John Dalton formerly of Thomas-
town County Kilkenny Ireland but later of
Rongotea in the Dominion of New Zealand
Richard Dalton formerly of Thomastown afore-
said but later of Nelson in the Dominion of
New Zealand Catherine Rodgers (formerly
Dalton) formerly of Thomastown aforesaid but
later of Blue Spur Westland in the Dominion
of New Zealand Ellen Murphy (formerly
Dalton) formerly of Thomastown aforesaid but
later of Kumara Westland in the Dominion of
New Zealand Margaret Murphy (formerly
Dalton) formerly of Thomastown aforesaid but
later of Piper’s Flat Westland in the Dominion
of New Zealand and Eliza Smith (formerly
Dalton) formerly of Thomastown aforesaid but
later of Melbourne Victoria Australia having
claims against the estate of the abovenamed de-
ceased person who died at Foxton in New
Zealand on the 26th day of January 1941 and
probate of whose will was granted by the
Supreme Court of New Zealand at Palmerston
North on the 19th day of February 1941 are
hereby required to send in full particulars in
writing of their claims to HECTOR CHRISTIE
Solicitor of 69 Ridgway Street Wanganui in
New Zealand aforesaid the sole Executor of the
will of the said Thomas William Dalton de-
ceased within six (6) months from the date of
publication of this advertisement after which
the Executor will proceed to distribute the assets
of the deceased among the persons entitled
thereto having regard only to the claims and
demands of which he shall then have had
notice DATED at Wanganui this 15th day of
July 1943.— CHRISTIE, CRAIGMYLE &
TIZARD, Solicitors for the Executor, Wan-
ganui, New Zealand.
burglaries
are Prevalent!
Householders should INSURE
against
FIRE—BURGLARY
HOUSEBREAKING
LARCENY and THEFT
and other contingencies
All in ONE Policy.
Cost from 7/6 per £lOO
Minimum Premium £l/2/6
The New Zealand Insurance
Company, Limited
79-81 PIXT SXKEEX, SYDNEY
L. Mudford, Manager.
Telephone 8W1931 for particulars
Longer life for VALET Blades
Rub palm of hand
over Strop before
use to remove dust..
® Before using your Valet
Razor rub the palm of the
hand several times over the sur-
face of the strop... This removes
all dust and grit, which, if allow-
ed to accumulate, forms a cutting
compound, damaging to both the
razor and the blade.
(2) Ke e p ' strop
straight, with slight
upward pressure of
hand holding razor.
(3) Keep the handle
of the razor at right
angles to strop.
(4) Strop the blade
both before and
after use.
Valet '
AuicKSlpop Blades
T/:
(A
t
r/
f The Tail
of a
Trench Mortar Bomb
The liandy Trench Mortar —"Toe Emma” to the troops—-has proven a
particularly useful weapon in this war as in the last, and it has been used
with devastating effect by our fighting forces.
Because of its short range and high trajectory its*projectile is made in the
form of a bomb, complete with tail fins. These tail fins are made from
CRMCO steel sheets.
Just to make both ends completely
effective, CRMCO steel is used also
to make the nose caps. So heads or
tails CRMCO is on a winner when
the Trench Mortars go into action.
ROLLING MILLS PTY. LTD.
Port Kembla, N.S.W.
C2O-43
SERVICE DEPARTMENT.
Wants.
To buy book on infant feeding and care by
Philip Muskett published about 1912, ana
The Story of by Denis Mackail.—3391.
To buy Moore’s Universal Booklet. —3392.
Information Sought.
Would a fighter ’plane or a transport be
affected more on striking an air pocket ? Who
would get the rougher ride?
The fighter would react in a series of short,
sharp bumps and the transport in a series ot
longer, heaving bumps. The question of who
would get the rougher ride would depend on
which type of motion the passengers disliked
more.
(1) Why are the abbreviations for ounce and
videlicet ( namely ) written oz. and viz. respec-
tively ? (2) Is oz- the correct form for both sin-
gular and plural?
(1) The “z” in oz. and viz. stands for an old
mark of contraction. (2) Oz. is used nowadays
for both singular and plural. Ozs., which was
originally used for the plural, is no longer
current, although correct.
Particulars of author E. V. Timms ?
Born 1895 in Charters Towers, Q’land; edu-
cated Sydney Technical High School and Sydney
Technical College; lieut. 1st Batt., A.I.F., 1914-
17; has written many novels, short stories and
plays; married in 1916 to Alma McRobert;
address, 7 Burgoyne-street, Gordon, N.S.W.
Other information not available.
Particulars of E. J. Ward’s political career ?
Is there any book giving details of Federal
members’ careers ?
M.H.R. for E. Sydney, N.S.W.; first elected
at by-election March 7, 1931; defeated at
general election same year; re-elected at by-
election February, 1932; temporary Chairman ot
Committees March, 1932-August, 1934; Minister
for Labor in first Curtin Government; sus-
pended over Brisbane Line controversy; Minis-
ter for Transport and External Territories in
present Government. The Commonwealth Par-
liamentary Handbook, published by the Com-
monwealth Government Printer, gives short
accounts of members’ Parliamentary records.
(1) Meaning of the abo. word Ulooloo ? (2)
Where could reports of the massacre of Mary-
borough (Q.) abos. in 1860 be obtained ?
(1) A deity. (2) The official account of the
matter is contained in a Queensland Govern-
ment blue book: Report from the Select Com-
mittee on the Native Police Force and the Con-
dition of the Aborigines Generally, issued Bris-
bane, 1861. Price, 7s. 6d. •
How to clean a cream linen blind stained by
rain ?
Take blind down (leave on roller) and tack
securely Mo kitchen table. Well brush the
blind, then mix flour and water to a firm, stiff
paste (not sticky) and rub crosswise on to the
blind, renewing mixture as it gets dirty. Brush
off and iron.
Recipe for toilet soap?
Dissolve 11b. caustic soda in water (see in-
structions on tin). Melt 51b. clarified mutton-
fat till lukewarm and stir into soda solution
when merely warm. Now add two tablespoons
powdered borax, -{-lb. glycerine, two tablespoons
liquid ammonia, oil of lavender (in that
order), beating well at the time. Nut oil may
replace olive oil. Any perfume may be used.
(1) Were lightweight boxers Bob Fuller, Les
Fitzgerald and Vic Patrick all born in Aus-
tralia ? (2) How long has each been boxing ?
(1) Yes. All in N. S. Wales. (2) Fitzgeralds
first match was in 1939, Patrick’s in 1940 and
Fuller’s in 1941.
Answers to Correspondents
Name and address must appear on the MS. No
liability is undertaken re contributions voluntarily
submitted; and no MS. will he returned unless
stamps accompany. MS. should be addressed to
the Editor.
The Muse aroused: —
R.C.: —
Why are we messed so much about
By the Government we nowadays get in?
A statesman at polls is sure to go out
And a ranting S'anta Claus win.
G.M.: Too many cliches H.A.R.:
“What has happened to the frogs I sent in in
1940-41?” Sorry, can’t trace ’em....P.M.:
Might suit a daily on the appropriate date....
D.H.R.: Couldn’t you find a more expressive
phrase than “beautiful sights that linger long”?
O.C.M.: Clip a bit of alliteration off those
“tossing tails in riot random”... .J.F.; Finishes
weakly N.R.H.: You can’t write an “ode’
in 12 lines V.K.H.; Prosy J.G.:
“Country Evening” the nearest; but the last
two lines are flat... .M.A.C.: Had never
realised the full horror of the word “decen-
tralise” until you put it into poetry C.H. :
Talk to the stars by all means, but talk m
your own words... .H.M.H.: “Flinch not from
life’s vulgar striving” may be a sound moral
but it’s a long, long way from poetry
C.T.: Atmosphere convincing; plot not
NJ.: When propaganda steps in psychology
departs J.W.E.: Overwritten E.Q.: A
pleasing sketch buried in facetious polysyllables.
R D.V.: Melodrama F.P.D.: “Bill re-
plied, ‘In the circumstances in which the in-
formation was imparted to you’ ” —Bill never
talked like that in all his life I.W.: Point-
less M.E.A.: Cut and try elsewhere.
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC)
CORRESPONDENTS.
C.G.L.: Characters look as if they had spent
several days in a refrigerator Fergo: Is it a
reproduction of the work of a monumental
mason done while in the horrors?


VICKERS
VICKERS
VICKERS
VICKERS
VICKERS
VICKERS
VICKERS
VICKERS
VICKERS
VICKERS
VICKERS
VICKERS
mm
.
m
;?x: ■;
m
t
S 3
m
—v-x- rncfl
YES:."li^
had everything
while he lived
.... but he had failed to have
his life assured as a precaution
against an untimely death. Do
not leave YOUR family without
ample protection. Arrange now
for an assurance policy,
11l
Head Office: 371-373 Queen St., Brisbane
Wlngello House, Angel Place, Sydney.
Collins House, Collins Street, Melbourne.
B. V. PEBBINS. General Manager.
cs4/iote ill an
fl FINE HOTEL
A hotel, certainly one of Sydney s
leading hotels, hut different •to
every other in many things. The
Wentworth, for instance, has ever
been rioted for its quiet, restful
atmosphere. Another thing, too,
while away from the noisei and
hustle, you are nevertheless con-
veniently situated to everywhere.
Service and cuisine are unexcelled.
THE WENTWORTH
In c Sjf*
f
’Phone BW 1361 (10 lines)
C. D. Macltxrcan, Marlaging Director
The WILD CAT COLUMN
Elder, Smith & Co., Ltd.
To Rg— Rg—
June, Profit. Dividends. serves, serves.
1933.. 105,279 4 p.c. = 95,746 9,533 1,110,218
1934.. 148,623 6 „ „ 143,618 5,005 1,115,223
1936.. 145,675 5 „ ~ 119,682 25,993 1,141,216
1936.. 165.277 6 „ ~ 143,618 21,659 1.162,875
Provident and guarantee fund, 1
£lO,OOO 1 27,027 1,189,902
1937.. 204,836 7 p.c. = 167,809 J
To tax reserve, £25,000 .. ..1,164,902
To provident and guarantee fund,
£lO,OOO 1,154,902
1938.. 201,836 7 p.c. = 168,000 33,836 1,188,738
To provident and guarantee fund,'
£lO,OOO 1,178,738
1939.. 185,500 7 p.c. = 171,500 14,000 1,192,738
From tax reserve, £25,000 • • . . 1,217,738
To provident fund, £lO,OOO .. .. 1,-207,738
1940.. 200,154 7 p.c.= 189,000 11,154 1,218,892
To provident fund, £lO,OOO . . . . 1,208,892
1941.-190,276 6J p.c.= 175,500 14,776 1,223,668
To provident fund, £lO,OOO .. .. 1,213,668
1942.. 186,653 6J p.c.= 175,500 11,153 1,224,821
1943. . 185,739 6J ~,,175,500 10,239 1,235,060
To provident fund, £lO,OOO .. .. 1,225,060
Whatever this big woolbroking, mer-
chandising and agency, business picked
up on the pastoral swings it lost on the
war-time roundabouts last term. Nature
was kind, which meant that more wool
and livestock were handled ; and there
was a 15 p.c. lift (from 13.4 d. to 15.4 d.
per pound) in the British contract price
for the staple—this to help cover the rise
in war costs —and stock on the hoof
fetched high prices, owing to buying pres-
sure to meet growing demands of the
Allied forces in the S.-w, Pacific area.
The entire Australian clip fetched
£73,252,000, or £7,678,000 more than its
immediate predecessor. The
value of the clip was £6,874,000' sliort of the
full amount received, which further illus-
trates what the British contract means to
both the growing and selling side of the
industry here. Wool handled by the co.
during the season at its Adelaide, Perth
and Geelong stores aggregated 299,547
bales, or 31,257 bales more than for the
preceding 12 months. The break of the
long (six-year) drought in the Westralian
hinterland was responsible for most of
this increase, and favorable conditions in
the two southern States for the balance.
In S. Aus. the quality of the clip was
of the best, and the sheep population of
the State (some 10,370,000) was recently
considered slightly above safety limit.
This despite reduction in supplies of
fertiliser —the quantity of super, used in
the State during the ’39 season was
232,800 tons as against 91,920 last season.
Still, the co.’s gain in wool and stock
earnings was offset by shrinkage in re-
turns from merchandising trading, owing
to curtailment of supplies, and by lighter
returns from a reduced volume of advances
and smaller commission and other tak-
ings from the ship-chartering and remain-
ing sections of the business. At the same
time labor and other costs continued to
climb. So, after making an unspecified
provision for bad debts, etc., and striking
£32,804 (down £1310) off the book value
of buildings and plant, the year’s gross
earnings were figured at £811,288 (down
£2486). A tight hold was kept upon out-
goings (£625,549), which were got back
£1522, despite the larger clip. Thus the
net result was only £914 lighter at
£185,739, equal to 6.9 p.c. on the
£2,700,000 of paid capital, as against 6.9,
7, 7.3, 7.5, 8.4 and 8.5 p.c. back to 1935.
On shareholders’ funds (capital and re-
serves combined) the year’s profit was
only 4.7 p.c. The div. was kept at 6y p.c.,
and £lO,OOO of the £10,239 that remained
was sent to staff provident fund. During
the year £200,000 from the provident and
guarantee fund was handed to the trus-
tees for investment outside the business,
leaving the amount on deposit with the
co. £318,622.
The solid financial structure and other
things are reflected in the following com-
parison of balance-sheet figures:
1939. 1942. 1943.
Deposits, etc. .. £935,509 £681,515 £658,827
Sundry creditors,
etc 963,501 1,127,631 1,290,143
Provident fund, etc. 392,936 486,064 318,622
Freeholds, plant, etc. 750,340 791,266 771,412
Gov. sec. and cash 1,291,455 1,879,210 2,515,003
Advances, etc. .. 3,854,969 3,318,584 2,688,154
S'tock . . . . 245,326 158,702 145,813
S'hares other cos.. . 155,103 166,769 166,769
Last term clients were able to reduce
their indebtedness to the co. by £630,430,
partly because of the good season, higher
prices and prompt settlement and partly
because expenditure on maintenance and
improvements was curtailed by shortage
of labor and materials. The money that
thus became available and more besides
went into low-interest-bearing liquids, up
£635,793, of which £600,000 was invested
in povernment war loans. The net re-
duction of £167,442 in the provident fund,
etc., was accompanied by an expansion
of £162,512 in the amount coming to
sundry creditors, etc. When the books
closed, outsiders and the trustees of the
provident fund could see the whole of
their money and £247,411 besides in cash
or readily realisable liquids. The co. is
exceptionally well equipped to come to
the assistance of clients when the time
arrives, as surely it will.
Immediate seasonal outlook in S. Aus.,
especially in the middle and upper north
of the State, is unpromising; the pros-
pect is more, encouraging in Westralia,
where lambing results are above average ;
conditions are favorable in the Western
District 'of Victoria, but the Wimmera
and Mallee experienced a dry winter
and autumn. What post-war conditions
in the wool trade will be remains to be
seen. Much will depend upon the plan
for release of surplus British and Ameri-
can stocks of the staple, upon the level
of production costs in Australia and upon
the general level of employment in other
countries. When war requirements allow
the man-power and material problems to
ease locally there will be a strong demand
for money to make good neglected im-
provements and for eradication of pests.
Hotel Metropole, Ltd. (Sydney)
Net To Re- Re-
June, Profit. Dividends. serves, serves.
£ £ £. £
1933.. 13,522 5 p.c. = 10,500 3,022 68,203
1934.. 18,757 7J „ ~ 15,750 3,007 71,210
Reserves capitalised, £42,001 .. 29,209
Unexplained addition, £750 .. 29,959
1935.. 22,152 71 p.c. =18,901 3,251 33,210
1936.. 25,143 8 „ „ 20,161 4,982 38,192
1937.. 33,496 10 „ ~25,201 8,295 46,487
1938.. 31,732 10 „ „ 25,201 6,531 53,018
1939.. 25,875 9 „ ~ 22,681 3,194 56,212
1940.. 21,920 8 „ ~ 20,161 1,759 57,971
1941.. 18,789 8 ~ „ 20,160 56,600
1942.. 15,939 54 „ ~ 13,860 2,079 58,679
1943.. 29,276 9 „ „ 22,681 6,595 65,275
The Metropole’s wide and profitable
goodwill has been built up partly as a
comfortable residential hotel, and nor-
mally the man on the land when in Syd-
ney makes for Bent-street like a homing
pigeon. Along with other city hostelries,
the co. today is performing an essential
service, providing accommodation for the
droves of fighting and civil personnel
swarming through all States on the
nation’s real and imagined business. Last
year, indeed, “the percentage of guest
occupancy constituted a record in the
history of the co.” On the other hand,
austerity restrictions, the relentless pres-
sure of costs and staffing difficulties left
no profit in the catering side of things,
and there seems no prospect of this posi-
tion changing while first-class dihing-
rooms with their heavy overhead are
restricted practically to the same tariff
as the near-by Cafe de Fairfax. Ration-
ing has cut liquor trading by approxi-
mately a third, too, and the standard of
service has had to suffer in other ways.
Despite present complications of hotel
management, the £29,277 (up £13,337) of
profit shown in the latest accounts stands
well by comparison with anything ex-
hibited in pre-war days. Moreover, it
was struck after providing £16,500 more,
at £27,000 for the taxgatherer, for whom
£9921 proved adequate in 1942. With
net earnings of 11.6 p.c. on capital avail-
able for disposal, there was neither diffi-
culty nor ‘hesitation in restoring the div.
to the 9 p.c. of 1939. That makes the
very satisfactory average of 8| p.c. for
the past decade, with £42,001 of bonus
scrip tossed in to sweeten things in 1935.
In the lucrative preceding quarter-cen-
tury, £75,000 was added to capital
account in the same manner, while special
cash distributions totalling £67,500 supple-
mented steady 10 p.c. divs. until depres-
sion gritted the wheels of economic acti-
vity after 1929.
As for the important question of re-
pairs, renewals, etc., “assets have been
maintained to a degree consistent with
war-time restrictions,” chairman Ewan
says. For many years the policy has
been to charge all such expenditure to
revenue in the year incurred, leaving de-
preciation allowances (unchanged at
£2OOO last term) free to swell liquid
balances:
1931. 1939. 1942. 1943.
Paid capital.. £210,007 £252,010 £252,010 £252,010
Liabilities .. 30,331 9,510 7,870 8,004
Tax reserve .. —• 10,500 27,579
Fixed assets .. 311,317 285,317 278,317 276,317
Stock.. .. 3,770 2,608 4,423 2,363
Book debts, cash,
etc 1,927 53,608 60,179 88,048
With the freehold unencumbered, the
position disclosed there is distinctly com-
fortable. On the earning side, however,
turnover must be at its peak under present
conditions, while, as the management is
careful to point out, costs continue to
increase.
Faivymead Sugar Co. (Q.)
To Re- Re-
uec., Profit. Dividends. serves, serves,
£ £ £ £
1933 .. 45,807 10 p.c. = 26,500 19,307 265,727
1934 .. 35,921 10 „ „ 26,500 9,421 275,14,8
Drop in replacement reserve, £16,245.. 258,903
1935 .. 29,857 10 p.e. = 26,500 3,357 262,260
From inner reserves, £40,500 .. 302,760
Reserves capitalised, £132,500 170,260
1936 .. 42,079 8 p.c. = 39,400 2,679 172,939
Insurance reserve, £913 .. .. 173,852
Added replacement reserve, £11,897.. 185,749
1937 . . 47,185 9 p.c. = 44,325 2,860 188,609
Added replacement reserve, £12,582.. 201,191
1938 .. 49,812 10 p.c. = 49,250 562 201,753
Added replacement reserve, £18,960.. 220,713
1939 . . 53,577 10 p.c. = 49,250 4327 225,040
Added replacement reserve, £1547.. 226,587
1940 . . 49,443. 10 p.c. = 49,250 193 226,780
Added replacement reserve, £9147.. 235,927
1941 .. 34,039 7 p.c. = 34,476 235,491
Added replacement reserve, £14,744.. 250,235
1942 .. 8,909 Nil 8,909 259,144
Results of sugar and copra trading
aren’t separated in the published
accounts ; they might well be when the
profit wind veers to the wrong quarter
at least. However, the copra plantations
in the Solomons, bought from the Young
family in 1936, haven’t turned out the
favorable deal they looked on paper—
-95,000 Faifymead fully-paids were ex-
changed for £195,000 of scrip in the
Malayta co. At present there is a strong
demand for the product of the coconut,
but island interests are in a condition of
brownout, and “no one can at this junc-
ture do more than guess what expendi-
ture will have to be incurred in return-
ing to that side of our business”—when-
ever that may be —the board says. The
auditor remarks that he is uhable to
determine the existence or value of the
assets in question and that no provision
has been made for losses, if any, in this
regard.
. As for sugar activities, production of
raws fell far short of standard mill
“peak” of 21,000 tons, chiefly as the
result of a flood which reduced what man-
power and fertiliser strictures had already
made a restricted crop. It also played
ducks and drakes with earnings in other
ways, “despite all attempts to restore
the damage.” Moreover, the necessity
for a “considerable” tonnage of cane to
be crushed at an outside mill through
pressure on rail transport constituted
another two-prong assault on profits by
reducing revenue and at the same time
bumping up unit costs on the balance
put through the ■ co.’s own rollers. The
combination of unhappy circumstances
outlined and the consequent £25,130
reduction in profits to 1.8 p.c. on capital
explain the board’s reluctance to declare
a div., a thing without parallel since the
close of the 1914-18 war; Still, the £17,782
first charged for depreciation—it accounts
for the interlined addition to reserves in
the first table—enabled the working assets
to be kept functioning “to the best advan-
tage in the circumstances,” and that is
one of the main requisites for future
profit-earning.
Nature promises to treat the co. more
kindly in the current term, when addi-
tional mechanical harvesters and loaders
will be at work. This continued drive
on costs and efficiency, particularly help-
ful at the moment, has occasioned capi-
tal expenditure of £117,000 on plant, etc.,
over the past four years:
1035. 1938. 1941. 1942.
Paid capital.. £265,000' £492,500 £492,500 £492,500
Liabilities* .. 69,034 84,484 273,553 261,169
Estates .. 224,014 330,681 338,218 337,991
Factories, etc. 180,668 1
Railways, etc, 65,832 [-360,124 463,426 477,040
Plant, etc. .. 55,214 J ,
Stocks, etc. .. 7,045 45,648 211,484 174,019
Book debts .. 73,251 85,066 17,234 22,030
Cash, etc. .. 16,769 6,468 6,657 1,733
“Including- provision for taxation.
The basis of fixed-asset valuation there
is cost, £237,120 for replacements com-
prising nearly all the reserves in the intro-
ductory table. The disclosure of inner


PATENTS. —Have you an idea worth patenting?
Griffith, Hassel and Griffith, Patent Attorneys,
Asbestos House, Or. York arid Barrack Streets, Sydney,
obtain Commonwealth and foreign patents.—Advt.
* * * *
Hydraulic Power, Electric and Hydraulic Lifts,
Limited (incorporated by Act of Parliament 1888),
hydraulic, -electric and general engineers, lift
specialists. Maintenance and repairs of all classes of
lifts and other machinery. Colonial Mutual Life
Building, 14 Martin Place, Sydney.— Advt.
* * * *
DAVIES & COLLISON, Patent Attorneys, Collins
House, 360 Collins Street, Melbourne, 0.1. Austra-
lian and overseas Patents anf? Trade Marks. — Advt.
d
Try the new Roussel Rupture Appliance Free.
Enables you to do the hardest work with com-
fort and security. Definitely holds, a condition
absolutely necessary for possible improvement
or recovery. Recommended by Doctors every-
where. Satisfaction guaranteed no matter
where you live. Send for details, self measure-
ment form, testimonials and 14 days’ free trial
offer. No obligation.
THE ROUSSEL APPLIANCE CO.,
(Dept. 37), 9 Martin Place, Sydney.
CREAM
TABLETS
THE CHILDREN'S FAVOURITE
FOR GENERATIONS
For Australia at War . . .
QYe
LATHES . . . CAPSTAN TURRET LATHES
SHAPING, MILLING and PLANING
MACHINES .... BORING MILLS
MACHINE-CUT GEARS for the Trade
*
MARS MACHINE TOOL Manfg. Go.
Pty. Ltd. Bridge Street, Valley, Brisbane
o TO A<
Sr
o
o
uz
: e
o:
O
*£A(X
The Federal Mutual Insurance Company
of Australia Limited
FIRE, MARINE AND ACCIDENT INSURANCES
EFFECTED AT LOWEST CURRENT RATES
Prompt and liberal settlements of claims.
' Directors • THOMAS A MAGNET, Chairman; F. W. Duesbury; Sydney Sampson.
K. A. MANZIE, Managing Director. S. T. RUTTER, General Manager.
’Phone (three lines) ; 117361. Branches in All States. 129 Pitt Street, Sydney.
“HOW COME YOU DON’T SELL WAFFLES?”
Mac is surprised that the chemists here don’t run snack
bars like the drug stores back home. But they DO sell
the same Kolynos Tooth Powder that has started a new
tooth-cleaning trend in the States, It’s a powder form
of the famous Kolynos Dental Cream. Cleans thoroughly.
Makes teeth sparkle. Limited supplies are now available
at chemists and stores, and it’s worth trying.
KOLYNOS TOOTH POWDER
t
77^
1
e
m
-5?
a
The Power behind
the BRITISH PUNCH*
On field ond farm, in factory and workshop, the men—
and women—of Great Britain are working furiously to
give more power to the British Punch! In the icy wafers
of the North, in the blazing heat of the Tropics; on
land, on sea and in the air, weapons of war from
British factories are hitting the common enemy in this
global war—and hitting him hard!
In this inexorable march to Victory, the Rootes Group
is playing its part; for the entire Organisation has long
been concentrated solely upon forging the weapons for
freedom. When the guns at lost are silent and the
world can turn again to hard-won happiness and to
reconstruction—cars and trucks of warrior sturdiness
will be made available for you by the—
liKlM
«P
MANUFACTURERS OF
CARS:
Humber * Hillman * Sunbeam-Talbot
COMMERCIAL VEHICLES:
Comitier * Harrier
Resident Representative'.
C. H. HORDERN. 472 Boutke Street. Melbourne
provisions before the one-for-two capi-
talisation in 1935 suggests there is con-
cealed strength, however. The abnormal
level of stocks reflects sluggish war-time
marketing, and, with recent capital
expenditure, explains the war-time expan-
sion of the debt.
Like wheat, sugar is another primary
industry to have been sacrificed to the
needs of war. At 627,000 tons, sugar
manufacture in Australia last year was
roughly 100,000 tons below the 1941
figure, and only two-thirds of peak 1939
production. Owing to the presence of
Allied troops, local consumption remains
high, despite rationing, and there were
hopes that last year’s diminished export-
able surplus would be lifted before open-
ing of the new season’s crushing. An
early forecast for 1943 sugar production
is 570,000 tons. The Royal Commission
which advised on harvesting recom-
mended that all mills operate under
Government control at a reduced crush-
ing rate, and local man-power advisory
committees have been set up in each
district. Extension of the crushing sea-
son, however, was costly to the industry
as a whole last year, and because of
higher wage and other costs a delegation
from the industry has approached the
Prime Minister for financial relief.
In the review of the Australian Metro-
politan Life (B. 6/10/’43) there was a
reference to “bonuses to policy-holders
and divs. to shareholders (entitled to 90
p.c. of the profits).” The 90 p.c. of dis- #
tributed profits, of course, belongs to
policy-holders. Shareholders take up to
10 p.c. only of O.D. profits.
*** * *
Production of blister copper at Mt.
Isa (Q.) commenced in April. Output of
the red metal reached 783 tons in June,
and continues to grow. If the estimate of
12,000 tons p.a. is attained, the co. will
be hotfoot o» Lyell’s peace-time figures,
thanks to the 3 p.c. grade of ore opened
up. Initial estimate of available material
in the Black Star reef was l| million
tons. Whether any lasting benefit from
this extension of activities accrues will
depend on the total quantity of copper
ore available, as well as the vital ques-
tions of prices and costs, both inordi-
nately high at the moment. As a lead-
zinc producer Isa hasn’t been a success,
largely because of the relatively low grade
of its ores and difficulties of concentration.
* * * ♦
Westralian Legislative Council very
reluctantly passed the bill providing for
the establishment of the Government-
financed and -controlled wood-distilla-
tion, charcoal, iron-and-steel industry.
As the venture has already started, one
member, Hal Colebatch, said that there
seemed to be nothing to do but to sup-
port the bill. Two others, L. Craig and
H. Tuckey, concurred, the former adding
that private enterprise would never have
had the courage to undertake such a
venture, and the latter that now was not
the time to begin work on such a job.
Charlie Baxter, a leader of the Council
Opposition, approved of the bill, but
said he hadn’t much faith in the ulti-
mate result. Then, with a feeling of
work well performed, the House rose.
The plan is to establish a rela-
tively small plant for production of
10,000 tons of charcoal pig iron,
480 tons of acetic acid and 112,000
gallons of wood naphtha a year. Esti-
mated capital cost is £125,000, annual in-
come £101,230, and annual expenditure
£76,360. Under war-time conditions it is
estimated that the plant will take 18
months to establish. Raw materials are
said to be abundant.
* * * *
Paringa (W.A.) continues to cheer
holders of its 3,863,428 issued Is. shares
with good mine-development reports.
The latest mentions the driving on rich
ore in the south end of the main 800 ft-
. workings and also in the north-shaft
workings at the 520 ft. level. Free gold
and telluride are showing in the face of
the drive at the former point. Shares
are being bought in London around
about 3s.
* * * *
Liquidator of Blue Bird Gold Mines,
Ltd., promises creditors a small golden
egg in the shape of a first dividend this
month. He doesn’t state whether there
will be any more.
* * * *
Last month Blue Spec (W.A.) collected
a twopenny call and now wants surprised
shareholders to fork out another. As
said before on this page, the Federal
Government, in granting the co. £35,000
on top of an earlier subsidy of £15,000,
stipulated that shareholders find some
money as and when called upon to do so.
* * * *
Monthly mine reports of North Kal-
gurli (W.A.) always read well. The
latest states that in the No. 8-level main
workings the lode has been developed
over a payable width of 56ft. and is well
above payable grade. In the Kalgurli-
shaft south workings high-grade ore is
being broken over a width of 6ft. in a
winze going down on the N.E.D. lode
from the No. 15 level. Shares are at
ceiling and bumping it.
.** . * *
Mining Trust’s chairman, Earl Castle
Stewart, announced at the annual meet-
ing in London that the co. held £404,740
in cash, £40,000 in Government securi-
ties, and secured advances of £144,689,
making a total of £589,429 in liquid re-
sources. Co.’s principal assets are:
Queensland, 1,553,764 Mt. Isa £1 shares,
£914,757 8 per cent, first B debentures
and £75,162 advances ; England, 100,000
£1 shares and £109,375 advances to
Britannia Lead Co., refinery treater of
Mt. Isa lead bullion; New Guinea,
843,147 New Guinea Goldfields 4s. 3d.
shares; Saudi Arabia, 397,520 Saudi
Arabian Syndicate ss. goldmining shares ;
Westralia, 5 per cent, interest in Big Bell
Mines, Ltd. Mt. Isa, Saudi Arabian and
Britannia refinery are operating, but
both New Guinea Goldfields and Big
Bell are shut up.
* * * *
From Jo’burg:
Rand milling tonnage, gold yield, profits and
dividends for half-year ended June 30 were
all down and working costs up compared with
the corresponding half of 1942. Tonnage was
3,800,000 less, yield showed a decline of 725,500
fine ounces, profits at £19,500,000 dropped
over £2,500,000, and dividends at £7,326,000
were £1,300,000 lower. Working costs at
21s. Bd. a ton were up sd. All figures are in
South African currency.


Maybe you can’t wear one of these
Biiiuiimam
i
a
Q
. . . hut you can
back the attack
...ami
wear this.
4
s
Circumstances may have made it impos-
sible for many of us to wear a Service
Badge and take a part on the field of
battle. But we each can wear the badge
awarded to Liberty Loan subscribers.
This is the year of attack. We must back
the attack with every penny we can get
together. We must subscribe our savings
to the 4th Liberty Loan and buy more
bonds still. Your Liberty Loan Sub-
scriber’s Badge will be awarded as soon as
you lodge your application. Do this to-
day, and wear your badge proudly —-
to-morrow.
BACK THE ATTACK AT ANY PICTURE THEATRE
Get a National Savings Book free at any
picture theatre, and buy 5/- National Savings
Stamps at the booth in the foyer. Each page
in the book provides for 8 stamps—or £2 worth.
Use each page or pages when full to pay for a
bond in full or to pay an instalment or deposit.
■DIRTY LOAD
Make
Good i
3i%.
your Subscription at any Bank, Savings Bank, Money Order Post Office, or Stockbroker.
If y * ou l nvest your money for 5 years the rate is 2i%, or for 16 years
Interest starts from the day of subscription. Pay cash or buy bonds on convenient instalments.
Wanted.
WANTED, Manufacturing and Marketing
rights of Patent Household Appliances, Agri-
cultural or other lines. Will finance if attrac-
tive. Must be genuine vendors. —FEDERAL
MACHINERY CO., LTD., Arncliffe, N.S.W.
Business, Rollery, etc.
Thoughts on a “New Australia”
An address by J. I. Simons, founder
(and “Boss”) of the Young Australia
League and managing director of the
“Sunday Times,” has received some pub-
licity in Westralia and other parts. In
the words of the “Northern ’Argus,”
published at Clare (S.A.)—his home
town —“his views regarding Australia’s
future must command our attention
and respect.” Mr. Simons, indeed, is
a man of no mean talents, and if
circumstances" had been a little kinder
he might have gone far in public
life. But one of his views con-
cerns the case of a youth, “far above
the average in physical and mental
strength,” whose country “could not find
him enough with which to live decently
in peace-time,” but which “readily found
£BOO to train him [in the Air Force] to
die.”
He also said:
.In the years of the depression we saw the
spectacle of stacks and stores of unused
food and, metaphorically, people actually
famishing under the very shadow of the
food and clothing which was out of their
reach because they did not have enough
of what we call money to give them the
comfort which comes from satisfied appe-
tites, proper clothing and shelter from the
elements
Not until the war can we recall a time
when there was not any unemployment.
After years of travail, of unemployment
with its malnutrition, misery and youths
with frustrated hopes because there was no
room for them, we find we have arrived at
what we thought was an unattainable con-
dition in which there are jobs for all. No-
body is out of work. There is something
for everybody to do. In fact, there is so
much work that there are not enough hands
to do it.....1t would appear that with the
coming of the war floodgates which were
holding back an apparently inexhaustible
supply of money were unlocked, and soon
there was enough money for a 11....
Today the Government is short of every-
thing but money, or what we are using
for money, and there seems to be no limit
to what it has at its command.
Remembering the shortages of the
’thirties and the fullness we have experi-
enced so far in the ’forties, history books
in the years to come may refer to the last
decade and the one in which we ai£ living
as the “thirsty ’thirties” and' the “fat
’forties.”
What, it may be asked, is the burden
of Mr. Simons’s grievance? The balanc-
ing of Government Budgets to him ap-
pears to be the root of economic evil:
In the past w'e have made as our chief
objective the balancing of Budgets; we
have aimed at ruling off our ledgers, at
balancing our books; and if human happi-
ness, human comfort, stood in the way of
producing a balance, then we ruled out
happiness and comfort. In other words,
we subordinated human happiness to our
bookkeeping instead of subordinating our
bookkeping to the needs of human happi-
ness.
He speaks of a “new Australia”;
In the new Australia we must readjust our
values to a scale which will accept the
gospel that human beings must count
above everything else, and that no more
will we go through the parched, arid valley
of depression. We must put humanitarian-
ism before econojny. We must not assess
human beings as something to be treated
in accordance with the rules of hard,
frigid statistical calculations.
It may be wondered, in considering
Mr. Simons’s disapproval of “hard, frigid
statistical calculations,” whether he ap-
proves of these things in any circum-
stances. Does he approve of accurate,
rigid calculations in the case of, say, the
manufacture of Spitfire aeroplanes, which
by their precision of manufacture and
excellence of performance • have helped
greatly in defeating the enemy? Does he
approve or not of a banking and currency
system so accurate and well organised
that in peace-time money can be sent
from Australia to London, Chile or Kam-
chatka without any risk of loss and for
a very small charge? Does he believe
that inaccuracy and chaos in these things
would be an advantage to the “new Aus-
tralia,” and that we would be better off
calculating in rum or some other less
rigid, less stable currency?
It is no use standing with one foot
in a “new Australia” and the other back
in the days of the aboriginals and sea-
shell currency ; and it is no use pursu-
ing false issues. We have to make up
our minds whether we wapt to live in
modern homes or in trees ; whether we
are prepared to accept the responsibilities
of government that go with “progress”
or whether we are going to try to recon-
cile “progress” with “repudiation of
responsibilities,” and to accept all the
confusion and misery that the latter
course must bring. If Budgets don’t
balance, plans have gone wrong some-
where. That going-wrong cannot safely
be ignored.
The general standard of living in this
country and throughout the world has
advanced greatly over the past hundred
years, and one reason for the advance
has been the development of financial and
economic facilities to their present pitch,
Public education, however, has not ad-
vanced at a similar rate. It may
be that there have been times when finan-
ual arrangements have not been fully
adequate to meet industrial developments,
In most such .cases the lack of finance
has arisen through lack of public Con-
fidence, which is the basis of credit, or
lack of plans. But where difficulties of
an essentially financial nature occur it
will usually be found that abuse of the
ciedit system has occurred at the hands
of speculators or politicians; and that,
as a result, finance tells lies instead of
the truth. Nowadays the offenders are
mostly politicians, and they often put up
a story, in getting away with their finan-
cial mismanagement, that appeals to the
self-pity and emotions of the people
rather than to their intelligence.
Sometimes trade-unionism gone mad
stands in the way of full employment;
a coal strike can tie up many other
industries. On other occasions our
troubles may have their root in overseas
When a country that has been geared
up to produce wool on such a scale that a
large proportion of the output has to
be sold overseas finds that foreign’ coun-.
tries can no longer pay the price neces-
sary to defray Australian production
costs especially if those costs are inflated
by chronic Budget deficits, it is likely
. at unemployment will occur both
in the wool industry and in the im-
porting traces (imports depending on
returns from exports, such as wool, etc.),
A balance in our overseas trading
account is something that will be insisted
upon by those who are expected to accept
our money at its face value. Even if some
sort of lend-lease operates after the war
it will probably entail more supervision
than ever over the debits and credits that
enter into a country’s trade. Since we
rely on mathematics, accuracy and
balance for so much of our modern
scientific and manufacturing progress we
have to respect those factors. It is im-
possible to receive benefits from them
without accepting corresponding obliga-
tions.
Where an industry or industries col-
lapse, no matter what financial arrange-
ments are made afterwards, a lag must
take place before other actual industries
—not mere finance arrangements —can
be substituted and employment restored.
Imagination and respect for the funda-
mentals of' nature, human nature and
arithmetic are necessary in financial man-
agement. If the weaknesses, excesses or
shortsightedness of human nature are
allowed to enter into its control there will
always be economic difficulties.
At the present time this country, eco-
nomically, is far poorer than it was in
the depression. The apparent monetary
wealth of the community is an infla-
tionary myth. Certainly employment
covers a wider field, but that is only be-
cause of the fact that the nation has
been stirred to sacrifice as it never was
in the depression. Had such things as
the Premiers’ plans (Mr. Simons dislikes
them) been introduced early in the piece,
the depression of 1929-34 would have
# never lasted so long. But the people
would accept the cut of the financial
surgeon’s knife only after much bitter
debate and suffering. (And it is
idle to deny that the depression had
roots going back to the First World
War.) After the inflation of 1914-28
had been largely removed from the
Australian economic body, and other
countries overseas had attempted to do
, something similar, by 1937-38 Australia
had reached a point of prosperity never
achieved either before or since. At the
beginning of 1938 there was 8 p.c. trade-
union unemployment in the Common-
wealth, which is a minor item when set
alongside the 800,000 or so Australians
who are now engaged solely in non-
productive military or kindred occupa-
tions. Unemployment is a tragedy, but
frequently it is attributable to the indi-
vidual as much as the nation.
Because of the excess of money to be
seen in Australia now, and excessive de-
mands made by some unions because of
the scarcity of labor that has arisen out
of the enlistments, call-ups and various
sacrifices of others, Australia will enter
the post-war period surrounded by the
dangers of further economic strain and
breakdown. The “fat ’forties,” to which
Mr. Simons refers, are a distortion
caused by Budget . deficits financed
by “bank credit” instead of monetary
taxation equal to the physical taxation of
war. Australia’s unbalanced Budgets of
the present time represent a gross abuse
of finance. Some abuse was bound to
arise out of the shock and pressure of
war alone. But too much of it has arisen
from vote-catching financial methods,
and from a disregard by too many whose
pockets are well-lined from war work for
the Air Force youth, and others like him,
who, in the words of Mr!. Simons,
“gasped out his life on the beach at Port
Moresby.” The “fat ’forties” are being
accompanied by a callous overworking
of three A.I.F. divisions, a state of affairs
which the majority of the people don’t
appear to want to set right.
An excess of “humanitarianism” talk
appeals to people whose emotions
work overtime to the detriment of
their intelligence and backbone. A policy,
of “every man for himself and the devil
take the rest” is what the practical
outlook of many such people boils down
to ; it is revealed in their money-making
war - time outlook and the refusal to
give the overworked A.I.F. the full sup-
port of the militia.
In a period of confusion and moral and
economic strain like the present public
men should be careful that what they say
is not likely to lead people up a “short-
cut” lane of fallacious self-interest: that
what they say is not mere ear-tickling
to make their own marble good. We
have had far too much of that already,
and subversive, alien forces are still
“plugging” it for all they are worth. Mr.
Simons should be careful not to give these
forces aid unwittingly. Some of us are
learning more about finance every day—
learning how to direct the forces of
finance to the right spot at the right time.
That is the essence of successful financial
management, and one of its keys to
employment. But, as has been said here


IF BACK ACHES
KIDNEYS MAY
NEED HELP
Flush Out Your 15 MILES of Kidney Tubes
*— Gel Quick Relief
Don’t expect nibbing to make your aching
back well and strong again—if the trouble la
caused by tired kidneys.
All the blood In your body circulated
through your kidneys every 15 minutes to be
strained of acids and wastes. Healthy persons
pass about 3 pints a day and so get rid of $
pounds of waste matter. When the kidney
tubes become tired, bladder passages are
often scanty and difficult. Instead of being
filtered out, wastes and acids get back-
washed into the blood and may become pois-
onous. This is often the beginning of nag-
ging backaches, leg pains, loss of pep and
energy, getting up nights, lumbago, swollen
feet and ankles, pufflnessi under the eyes,
rheumatic pains and dizziness.
Don’t wait for serious trouble to lay you
up. Ask your chemist or store for DOAN’S
BACKACHE KIDNEY PILLS and get the
same quick relief they have been giving mil-
lions for many years. If backache is bother-
ing you due to tired kidneys, try DOAN’S[
BACKACHE KIDNEY BILLS to-day.
SHINE oM/^/Skf,
TAe SHOES
SSS
s»*^
W
&'V
ft?
A?/*
m
WHEN YOU USE )
NUGGET
SHOE POLISH
LET
r ATLAS >
CARRY THE
i BURDEN y
W
Established 1808 in Keign of George 111.
■fnr. I
STABILITY
The “Atlas” has seen many
battles, including the Battle of
Waterloo, and has emerged
from them all with greater
strength and prestige.
FIRE , ACCIDENT MARINE
ATLAS
ASSURANCE COMPANY, LTD.
( England )
ATLAS BUILDINGS, 8 SPRING ST., SYDNEY.
GUY H. HEATH, Manager, N.S.W.
E. V. ELDER,
Assistant Manager for Australia & New Zealand.
LEONARD PETTITT,
Manager for Australia & New Zealand.
Broadcasting Script-writer
BROADCASTING network requires the full-time ser-
vices of an experienced Script-writer. Applications
stating experience, salary required and enclosing
specimen 15-minute and 30-minute plays to be sent
to No. 866. NATIONAL SERVICE OFFICE, 53
Martin Place, Sydney.
BUY
WAR SAVINGS CERTIFICATES-
and
NATIONAL SAVINGS BONDS
Space by
MAKERS OF THE ECONOMY SAUCE
Ford Transport Conservation Series— No. 10
onto 1 ** 1
r
/i
(
&
%
Apart from our necks, which are worth saving, we
drivers have another good reason for care—the need
to conserve replacement parts. They are too precious
to be thrown away in avoidable accidents. Statistics
show the main causes of road accidents are errors of
judgment—in overtaking, in cornering, and in
estimating braking distances.
cng-
»-SO»WH.
*ra
A-20M.P.H,
an
0-40 M.RH.
OVERTAKING: In our diagram “A” is overtaking
“B,” and ££ C” is approaching from the opposite
direction. Even at these moderate speeds, for every
foot “A” gains on ££ B” the distance between “A”
and £ £ C ” decreases ly seven feet.
CORNERING: When you are driving round a
curve, ££ centrifugal force” tries to keep the vehicle
going in a straight line. One of its peculiarities is
that at 40 m.p.h. it is not merely twice as great as
at 20 m.p.h., but four times. All that keeps the car on
the road is the friction of the tyres. Obviously, fast
cornering is not only dangerous, but destructive.
BRAKING: The same multiplication rule applies
when stopping a vehicle. At 40 m.p.h. (square 1,600)
it takes four times the distance to stop as when
travelling at 20 m.p.h. (square 400).
Always drive at a speed within safe braking limits.
IS WORTH
TWO IN
THE DITCH
đd
Issued hy Ford Motor Company
and Ford Dealers and Distributors
to help conserve motor vehicles—
a vital national asset.
BACK THE ATTACK-BUY LIBERTY LOAN BONDS
Ford Motor Company of Australia Pty. Ltd. (Inc. In Vic.). Beg. Office: Geelong, Vfc.
before, an indiscriminate vomiting of
money is no more the correct solution
of unemployment than is the burning-
down of a house to roast a pig. Indus-
trial planning that will meet the needs
of the people and harmonise with un-
avoidable external forces has to precede
the successful expansion of credit. Mis-
direction brings waste, and waste brings
burdens.
Selfishness, sectionalism and lack or
proper education are the grave threats to
economic stability and full employment.
The world has still a lot to learn about
the functions of money, but the disregard
of Budget deficits is a concession to ignor-
ance, not learning. The Bulletin be-
lieves that finance —and skill —should be
always made available to bring idle men
and materials together, but at times sac-
rifices by some will be necessary to
.achieve this, particularly where financial
abuse has led to lack of confidence and
to slump. When people refuse to educate
themselves voluntarily and to share
national responsibilities they have to
learn the hard way.
The Loan
There can be no legitimate excuse for
Australians as a whole failing to fill the
Fourth Liberty Loan. The majority of
them represent a class which does not
customarily support war loans/ but they
have plenty of money by pre-war stand-
ards, and they will be helping to protect
their savings if they invest now —they
will be protecting their property against
inflation as well as against the enemy.
Investment in the loan is the obvious,
right and sensible thing for people to do.
In the Budget debate in Canberra last
week Mr. Menzies, while supporting the
loan as an anti-inflationary measure as
well as a necessary part of the war effort,
emphasised the dangers attending the use
of central-bank credit, firstly as an in-
flationary force and secondly as a
socialistic force by reason of the exces-
sive Government “controls” that are
necessary in order to regulate inflation.
To the extent that safeguards against
inflation diminished, capacity to use
central-bank credit without disaster
would also diminish. Yet some of these
safeguards must begin to be modified
after the war if there was to be progress.
He went op:
Some of our present methods are of doubt-
ful soundness unless one really believes that
when the war is over socialisation wifi be an
effective substitute for private enterprise. Take
for example the way in which we tax moneys
in the hands of companies or businesses which
would otherwise go into repair and mainten- '
ance.
The chairman of one public company recently
said that his co. had set aside £2500 to a re-
habilitation reserve for repairs which could not
be done owing to lack of the necessary
materials and labor. That amount, because
it was not spent during the year it was earned,
became subject to taxation at the rate of
17s. 3d. in £l, or 86 per cent.
The Opposition does not advocate the strik-
ing off of all fetters upon industry so soon as
the war ends. There must be a very gradual
tapering-off as we move back into the read-
justments of peace.
If socialisation wins there will be no tapering-
off, because all these Government controls will
be the necessary incidents of general Govern-
ment management. The real tapering will be in
effective living standards and in the ancient
liberties of the subject.
We believe in the rights of the individual, m
a man’s freedom to carve out his own career,
and to make his own fortune.
The maintenance of full employment, of
generous and comprehensive social services, a
new and enlightened attack upon the problems
of public health, a revolutionary change in the
breadth of our outlook upon the education
problem —all these things are part of the com-
mon charter of humanity to which we must all
devote ourselves.
Mr. Menzies is an economist in his own
right. On financial matters he speaks
more tellingly than any Australian poli-
tician in recent memory.
* * * *
In budgeting for a £570 million war ex-
penditure this year the Government has
certainly planned for a smaller effort than
last year. To begin with, the defence
account will bear the cost of £ll.B mil-
lion of assistance to the primary indus-
tries and another £l2 million of subsi-
dies, etc., under the price-stabilisation
plan. This will altogether represent an
increase of about £2O million over similar
outlay last year, compared with a total
increase in the estimated defence expen-
diture of £8 million. As price subsidies,
etc., largely represent anti-inflation
measures the war effort is in no way being
increased by their inclusion in the war
account. Since May, 1942, the Common-
wealth basic wage has risen about 10 p.c.,
so that the level of costs at the beginning
of this financial year was almost 10 p.c.
higher than at the beginning of the pre-
ceding period, and to that extent money
figures are puffed up when turned into
terms of output. Whether stability has at
last been reached by virtue of price sub-
sidies, “controls” that are reaching,
strangulation point and other arbitrary
measures only future statistics will reveal.
If stability has not yet been reached, not
only will it be difficult to maintain our
war effort within the limits of present
budgeting, but it may be necessary to in-
crease the scope of the Budget later, a
fact which the Treasurer himself has men-
tioned. In view of the inflation which
has dogged the Australian economy over
the past two years the increase in the esti-
mated national income (up £l3O million
to £1220 million last year) is something
of a mirage. It exists only in money
figures, not in fact. There is one factor
which favors our war account this year:
by now the munitions machine should be
established to the point where compara-
tively little further capital outlay is neces-
sary, and we should be seeing actual
production in greater quantities, helped
by mass-production equipment that has
perhaps taken a lot of time as well as
previously-raised tax- and loan-money to
set up.
* * * *
The national debt of the Common-
wealth and States at June 30 was £2006
million, of which £lOO7 million was a
liability of the Commonwealth. The in-
crease in the debt last year was £389
million, all on account of war. Cash re-
sources available to the States (arising
out of Budget surpluses, etc.) were “used
for the temporary reduction of Treasury
bills during the year.” Helped by the
operation of the Sinking Fund, there was
a reduction of £l2 million altogether in
State debts.


THE SERVICE MNA
After Finschhafen.
“Ek Dum”: It was announced by
G.H.Q. at the beginning of last week
that the capture of Finschhafen had
ensured complete control of the Huon
Gulf, and that the simultaneous move-
ment up the Markharn Valley by air and
ground gave control of the Huon Penin-
sula. The operations outflanked and con-
tained all the enemy’s centres between
Finschhafen and Madang, and rendered
practically useless his numerous positions
and installations along the coast.
And whereas the enemy had suffered
“large losses with no compensating dam-
age inflicted on our own forces,” our
own losses had been “extraordinarily
light.” Up to the week-end about 350
wounded had been mentioned as arriving
at southern hospitals.
The fighting for Finschhafen was a
briefer replica of that for Salamaua on a
smaller scale. The terrain was a series
of spurs tumbling down to the station
in a tangled mass of mud and vegetation.
The A.I.F. had to encounter attack
from these spurs, and the Allied air force,
operating from bases far from Finsch-
hafen, was continually called on to ward
off savage strafing almost from treetop
level. Twenty-five-pounders were present,
assisted by a couple of Australian Boom-
erangs acting as spotters. Since Tunisia
the spotter ’plane, slower than anything
else in the air but manoeuvrable, has be-
come a standard adjunct of artillery, a
reversion to a technique of an earlier day.
The guns were kept going steadily, with
occasional fierce acceleration. The enemy
himself displayed no active artillery save
mortars, which he uses with effect against
unwary troops.
One of the Nip’s slips was in showing
too much confidence in his environment.
On the way to the inland flank of Finsch-
hafen are gorge and cliff, sheer, slippery
and at first glimpse almost impassable.
But Queenslanders and N. S. Welshmen
cut their way along these terrible places,
hacking steps, bringing up equipment,
hurling large quantities of pure Austra-
lian into the depths below them in return
for a deadly shower of mortar fire, pass-
ing back their wounded, but pushing on
and gradually consolidating in the jungle
fringes on the doorstep of Finschhafen.
When they broke in, a lone prisoner sur-
vived—a sick and feeble fellow. The
residue of the garrison which had stayed
to fight disappeared under foot in a
bloody bayonet charge by N. S. Welsh-
men.
Up till the beginning of the week,
apparently, after the anchorage was in
Australian hands, there were still pockets
of the enemy on the heights to the north-
west, particularly on Sattelberg, 3000 feet
up and some miles from the main station.
It was not clear when this was written
whether these had been wiped out. At
one stage pockets of the A.I.F. were cut
off in some of this high country, but
fought clear.
Those who took part in the assault of
Finschhafen will not forget it. Its name
will go down on the roll of lusty fights
in the Pacific beside those of Gona,
Buna and the struggle for the Pimple. It
was the first real engagement of the
Ninth Divisiori units on any scale since
Alamein, and in very different terrain
from the sandy shore and desert edge on
which officers and men last operated in
action. But they proved their versatility.
Militia Battalion’s March
The second force which moved on
Finschhafen along the Huon Gulf coast
was a militia battalion which left Hopoi
airfield, 50-odd miles from the anchorage,
on September 22, while the men of the
Ninth were landing on the Song River
beach.
The militia lads saw no enemy for the
first 30 miles, but at the Mongi River,
22 miles from Finschhafen, they came
upon enemy scouts, three of whom they
killed. Afterwards, they found gun posi-
tions with guns and ammunition intact
but no gun crews, and along the banks
of the Mape artillery posts and concrete
bunkers.
The Hopoi men arrived at the A.I.F,
southern outpost in time to celebrate
the victory won by the men of the Ninth,
On the Road to Madang
The Markham force, which had been
working its way up the river and across
the Ramu Divide, began to make swift
progress. The country is in parts diffi-
cult, but scarcely so to men schooled in
the mountains of the goldfields and in-
ured to the Owen Stanley tracks. So
much of it is reasonably open as to make
supply by air from the large transport
aerodromes established near Lae com-
paratively easy.
Along this track the enemy appears to
have had only rearguards, which fell
back before a well-concerted advance,
burning villages and dumps—sometimes
wrecked by aircraft —but leaving be-
hind substantial supplies and armament.
The Australian force seems to have
been progressively strengthened, and its
rate of movement accelerated as air
facilities grew and advanced behind it,
but it was not until Saturday, October
2, that the main column made contact
with enemy screen patrols at Kaigulun,
though a spearhead had previously cleared
out Kaiapit with grenade and bayonet.
Here an outpost in prepared positions
was manned by a few Japanese, some
of whom were killed. In the foothills of
the towering Finisterre there were many
sharp little engagements while forward
troops and the engineers, working under
a blistering heat, pushed ahead and did
what they could to improve the road and
bridge the creeks and runnels.
By October 8 the spearhead of the
Australians, having marched 60 miles in
a week, was only 20 miles from Bogad-
jim—old-time Stephansort, on Astrolabe
Bay, German New Guinea’s first capital
—and on the approaches of the motor
road which the enemy had built —it runs
along the coast to Madang. Madang is
20 miles beyond Bogadjim. The Aus-
tralians had seized the Dumpu airstrip
and were working down the Uria River
Valley on the last lap to the sea.
They are within comfortable fighter-
range of Madang.
“Determined and Gallant”
All along the defence arc from Kolom-
bangara to the Indian Ocean the position
is changing rapidly. The Portuguese
Government is .reported to have de-
manded the withdrawal of Jap troops
from Timor, and although this has not
been confirmed there was “obvious ex-'
citement” in Lisbon at the week-end.
For 3000 miles across northern Aus-
tralia the bombing of enemy-held objec-
tives continued.
Dozens of barges in the New Guinea
and Solomons areas were sent to the
bottom. Japanese installations on
Bougainville, on New Britain and the
northern New Guinea coast blazed.
On October 6, after hinting at possible
evacuation through Tokyo Radio, the
enemy sent a naval force escorting barges
towards Vella Lavella, where well-known
Allied troops were chopping up rem-
nants. The convoy was under air escort.
It was picked up by a lesser Allied
naval force of which the screen was
under Captain Frank Walker, U.S.N.
The enemy was in three sections —four
destroyers and a light cruiser, four de-
stroyers and lastly torpedo and gun boats.
Captain Walker attacked without de-
lay, closing in to torpedo range. The
fight was over quickly. Two Japanese
ships blew up at once ; a third and fourth
followed in quick succession. Captain
Walker rushed the second flotilla,
damaged two and possibly three vessels.
The remainder of the fast barges were
already speeding out of reach. Admiral
Halsey rightly called it “a gallant and de-
termined action.”
Later the optimistic enemy announced
that Kolombangara and Vella Lavella had
been evacuated “for strategic reasons.”
There are many of the enemy bn those;
islands who will never get away.
On the Volturno.
“Ek Dum”; The past few days saw
the transition in Italy from the end of
the battle for Naples to the beginning of
the battles for Rome.
Naples had been won at a compara-
tively small cost in lives. U.S. casualties
in four weeks‘from the landing were 511
killed, 2366 missing and 5428 wounded.
They were stated to be heavier than those
of the less numerous British in the Fifth
Army.
Though the enemy tried to leave
Naples a ruin, its condition is not exactly
desperate. In labor and resources and
in harbor facilities it is a fine asset, and
the waterfront, badly battered by bomb-
ing, will soon be in working order again,
as will the two great aerodromes.
The Fifth Army spent most of its
week consolidating south of the Vol-
turno River. It took Maddaloni, whose
towers dominate much of the landscape
round the river approaches, and Caserta,
on the Rome road, just on the Naples side
of old Capua—an astonishing city with
an enormous palace and palace gardens
fed by a towering aqueduct which
sneaks out of a gorge on arches about 200
feet high on the road to Benevento.
These monuments are the product of a
Bourbon longing for a Neapolitan Ver-
sailles.
The Volturno is a writhing, narrow
river. It was running turbulent with the
rains as the Germans hurried across it
on the west and, further east, got out of
the valley of the Galore. The Galore
runs southward from a junction with the
Volturno, whose course is from the north.
On the west of the main highway
northward, road and rail make their way
from Aversa to the coast at Formia.
They then sneak up the Tyrrhenian Sea,
between the dunes and the Lepini moun-
tains for the most part, to the Pontine
marshes, thence on to ‘the western slopes
of the Alban Hills, and by Velletri and
the Via Appia and several other con-
verging highways into Rome.
The British section of the Fifth Army
is advancing to the Volturno mouth. The
Americans are moving up the Via
Casertina, across Garibaldi’s battlefield
round Capua, to reach the valley of the
Sacco, through which the road runs to
Rome between the Lepini and Apennine
Ranges. East of this three converging
advances are in progress:
(1) From Benevento to the Vinchiaturo
road junction near Campobasso by Ameri-
cans. They had on October 9 travelled 20
miles, or about halfway to the junction, and
held a crossroad leading direct from their
route to Caserta.
(2) From Foggia, via Lucera and Volta-
tura to the same destination by a section
of Montgomery’s Eighth Army.
(3) From Termoli, on the Adriatic coast,
which is actually north of Rome, to the
same point by a tough armored Eighth
Army spearhead which had travelled 10
miles inland to Larina at the week-end.
The Eighth Army men landed at
Termoli in darkness on October 3 in
advance of a land force moving up from
Foggia.
Montgomery’s move threatened the
flank of the Germans so seriously that
the whole 16th Panzer Division remained
to deal with it, but up to the week-end
the enemy had had no success. For two
days while the rain poured down the men
of the Eighth, in some of the fiercest
fighting they have known, held on with
warship support till they received the re-
inforcements, armor and heavy equip-
ment moving up the road from San
Severo and Foggia, which had been de-
layed partly by the weather and partly by
extensive German demolitions. On
October 8 the German attack drove right
into Termoli. It was dissipated in hard
street fighting. Having been strengthened,
the Eighth Army section by the week-end
was pushing its way northward and inland.
The beginning of the battle of the
Volturno was imminent. The river is
narrow and in places, shallow in the
Capuan region, but the approaches are
traps —muddy fields and exposed flats
across which there run ancient submerged
roadways whose beds are sometimes ten
feet below the surface level. Into these
many an unwary jeep apd wayfarer of
the Fifth Army will tumble in the dark
before the river is crossed.
The crossing of the Volturno and the
passage into the Sacco Valley will be
difficult and bloody if the enemy really
makes up his mind to resist. He holds
the heights, all the open country south
of the Volturno, and can see the whole
of the road system on the coastal side
into the environs of Naples itself.
His main defence line in central Italy,
however, is more likely to be built along
the Pescara-Rome road, which is his
shortest direct route across Italy, with
preliminary defence on the west based on
the Avezzano-Arce-Gaeta triangle.
The Eighth Army will wreck this plan
if it can get behind Pescaram, which is
about 50 miles from Termoli by sea. The
Germans are fighting with both flanks
constantly threatened from the sea,
against attackers with complete naval and
air superiority.
From Corsica to Cos
The other fighting areas of the Medi-
terranean were Corsica, to which the
Germans bade a last farewell, Adriatic
parts of Yugoslavia and the Aegean.
In the Yugoslav area the fighting was
and is being done by “partisans,” who
have an exceptionally good “press.”
Mihailovich is holding his hand, expect-
ant of an Allied invasion in force. Un-
fortunately the “partisans” have had to
give up some ports under their control,
but can be credited with having a
nuisance value.
The Germans have 25 or 26 divisions
in Italy alone. Their strength in Yugo-
slavia and the Balkans generally is un-
known, but it cannot be negligible. Last
week they were able to make an efficient
thrust on the eastern side of the Aegean
and recapture Cos, second-largest island
of the Dodecanese (111 sq. miles, 19,000
people).
A British force had landed on Cos to
establish facilities which might be used
to dominate the entrance to the zEgean
and to Athens. There was an Italian
garrison on the island. The enemy
pounced fiercely on Cos with ’planes, fast
boats and parachutists, and claimed on
October 3 that it was in his possession,
together with 600 British, 2500 Italians,
40 guns, 22 aircraft and a ship.
The enemy apparently operated from
two directions—Rhodes and the main-
land. On Rhodes there was a big Italian
garrison, but it seems to have done little
or no fighting when 7000 Germans
swooped down on the island.
On Cos, according to German accounts,
the aerodromes were bombed into useless-
ness and ammunition dumps destroyed.
British fighters were grounded and the
troops, lightly armed, were at a grave
disadvantage without artillery or air sup-
port. According to Cairo reports there
were 1600 of them, and when the com-
muniques last spoke of Cos before the
week-end some of them still were fighting.
Attempts on Symi, a small adjacent
island between Cos and Rhodes, which
are 60 miles apart, were beaten off with
severe loss to the enemy. He also lost
heavily in the air in a series of raids and
dogfights which stretched from Larissa,
where the aerodrome was torn to pieces
by R.A.F. squadrons, to Rhodes and
Cyprus. Berlin declares that an Allied
invasion of Rhodes is imminent. The
attacks on Cos and Symi therefore seemed
to be designed to open a line of evacua-
tion.
The Cos affair was a small thing, but it
points to the fact that the Germans are
still daring foes who cannot be taken
lightly.
An enemy convoy was picked up in
the zEgean by British forces and de-
stroyed.
A Week of Bombing.
“Ek Dum”; Growing in strength and
making full use of favorable weather and
moon. Allied air forces carried out an
extensive and almost continuous week of
bombing over Germany. Attacks reached
800 miles from English shores to within
400 miles of the Russian lines at Konigs-
berg. East Prussia. The main raids and
their results:
October 4: Daylight attack by U.S. Fort-
resses, followed by a heavy R.A.F. night raid
on Frankfurt (500 tons dropped), with a
secondary Lancaster raid on Ludwigshafen.
Mosquitoes bombed several objectives in
Western Germany. The Allies shot down 78
enemy fighters—of which U.S. bombers claimed
56, U.S. fighters 10 and R.A.F. Typhoons three.
Allied losses were 59 aircraft, including 12
bombers. Two pilots were saved.
October 6: R.A.F. Typhoons—Hawker dive-
bombers, speed over 400 m.p.h,, carrying four
20mm. cannon and 1000 pounds of special
bombs —raided Paris oil refineries. They shot
down two Junkers 88’s and a Fieseler Storch
Army Co-operation ’plane.
October 7; Stuttgart heavily raided; also
Friedrichshafen and Munich and some other
German targets collected bombs. Half a dozen
German ’planes dropped about 30 tons of
bombs in the environs of London, but failed
to reach the city. They caused damage and a
few casualties. Seven British aircraft were miss-
ing from the day’s operations.
October 8: Heavy raids, pushed as far as
Bremen and Yegesack, by U.S. Fortresses and
Liberators, escorted by Thunderbolts, the largest
and heaviest American fighters. U.S. Air H.Q.
reported that 130 German intercepted were
shot down by Fortresses and 12 by Thunder-
bolts, with 50 “probables” and 42 damaged,
against a loss of 30 bombers and three fighters.
R.A.F. heavies made a big attack on Hanover’s
rail and armament centres, while a smaller
force went to Bremen and Mosquitoes harassed
Berlin and the Ruhr. The R.A.F.’s loss was
31 machines.
October 9: In daylight Flying Fortresses
and Liberators attacked Stettin aeroplane plants;
Marienburg (E. Prussia), Dantzig and the Polish
part of Gdynia, where a large part of the
German fleet was supposed to be lying, and
Anklam (Pomerania). For much of the way
the heavies were escorted by Thunderbolts.
U.S. H.Q. reported 91 enemy machines shot
down in long-range dogfights; 29 U.S. bombers
were missing. Berlin claimed to have destroyed
37 four-engined American machines in the
Baltic area. Three U.S. machines came down
in Sweden and 30 crew members were interned.
Two German fighters shot down over Swedish
territory. ______
Across the Dnieper.
“Ek Dum”: After a five-day lull along
the banks of the Dnieper, the Russian
offensive began anew, catching Moscow
correspondents napping. The arrival or
Soviet forces at a fast-flowing river, in
many places almost a mile wide, and with
clifflike banks on the wrong side, did not
appear to these writing boys sufficient
explanation for a few days’ holdup.
The Red Army Command explanation of
the delay was perfectly reasonable. Before
attempting the crossing of the broad river
and the carrying forward of the northern
front, so that the advance would be all
in one piece and there would b§ po
danger of the northern Germans threaten-
ing the Russian flank if the pace in the
south was swift, it had been necessaiy
to pause to bring up reinforcements and
supplies from the rear.
This done,
our troops again launched an offensive
against the whole front, from the Vitebsk
area to the Taman Peninsula.
Neval Falls
On Oct. 7 Moscow H.Q. reported that
mopping-up of bridgeheads on the


Personal and Missing Friends.
WOULD anyone knowing the whereabouts of FRANCIS
THOMAS URIDGB, formerly of New Zealand, type-
writer Mechanic, and last heard of! In^,, Mel l^?oTT?T ri>
years ago, kindly communicate with the msißtLi
PUBLIC TRUSTEE, Dunedin, New Zealand?
icT JOHN STUART POWELL late of Balcombe
Camp Victoria formerly Soldier aM Aiman. TA vE
NOTICE that your wife EVA ADA POWELL has
instituted Proceedings against you for Divorce on
the ground of three years’ desertion Unless you enter
an appearance in the Prothonotary s Office of the
Supreme Court in Melbourne on or before the 25th
day of October 1943 and unless you file an answer
in the said Office within ten days after entering an
appearance the case may proceed in your absence
and you may be ordered to pay costs. H. G.
LANDER, 31 Queen Street, Melbourne, Solicitor for
the Petitioner. .
BOOTLE.—WouId FRANCIS GEORGE ESSENDON
BOOTLE (son of the late Ernest Sydney Barwon
Bootle, of Dubbo, N.S.W., formerly of “Moonara,'
Narromlne, N.S.W., Grazier, deceased) or his children
(if any) or* anyone knowing his whereabouts or
having any knowledge of him or his children (if any)
please communicate with A. D. BOOTH & SON, Mac-
quarie Chambers, Dubbo, Solicitors .for the Estate
of E. S. B. Bootle, deceased?
Divorce Notices.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW SOUTH
WALES— In Divorce.
TO GEORGE REA late of Guildford. —TAKE NOTICE
that RITA RUTH REA has filed a Petition for
Divorce No. 2386 of 1943 o* the grounds of deser-
tion without just cause or excuse for three years
and upwards If you wish to defend you may enter
an appearance at the Divorce Office Supreme Court
King Street Sydney by the Ist December 1943 and
obtain a copy of the petition without charge from
M B BYLES & 00. Solicitors 3 Castlereagh Street
Sydney.— (l.s.) C. K. BODY, Registrar in Divorce.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW SOUTH
WALES— In Divorce.
TO JOHN HAWKINS late of Ariah Park.—TAKE
NOTICE that DOROTHY HAWKINS has filed a
Petition for Divorce No. 2684 of 1943 on the ground
of desertion for three years and upwards without
just cause and excuse If you wish to defend you
may enter an appearance at the Divorce Office
Supreme Court King Street Sydney by the 19th
November 1943 and obtain a copy of the petition
without charge from DIBBS & FARRELL Solicitors
Hoskins Street Temora. —(1.5.) C. K. BODY,
Registrar in Divorce. -
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF TASMANIA.
(Divorce.)
LAUNCESTON DISTRICT REGISTRY.
TO WALTER HUBERT ROBINSON formerly of Laun-
ceston in the State of Tasmania. —TAKE NOTICE
that a Petition has been fjled in this Court en-
dorsed with a notice to you to appear and answer the
charges in the Petition of DOREEN THELMA ROBIN-
SON of 27 Cameron Street Launceston in the State
of Tasmania praying for a dissolution of marriage
In default of your so appearing you will not be
allowed to address the Court and the Court will pro-
ceed to hear the said petition proved and pronounce
judgment in respect thereto AND TAKE FURTHER
NOTICE that for the purposes aforesaid within
Thirty days after the date of this publication an
appearance must be entered at the Principal Regis-
try of the Supreme Court of Tasmania Macquarie
Street Hobart or at the Launceston District Registry
Cameron Street Launceston in the State of Tasmania
should you think fit so to do. — (1.5.) T. KNOWLES',
Deputy District Registrar, Launceston Registry.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OP NEW SOUTH
WALEiS— In Divorce.
TO EMLYN WILLIAMS—TAKE NOTICE that MARY
ANN WILLIAMS has filed a Petition for Divorce No.
1308 of 1943 on the ground that during three years
and upwards you have been an habitual drunkard
andl have habitually been guilty of cruelty towards
her If you wish to defend you may enter an appear-
ance on or before the First day of December One
thousand nine hundred and forty-three and obtain a
copy of the petition without charge from the under-
signed.—(Son.) J. M. HOUSTON, Solicitor for the
Petitioner, Prudential Building, 39 Martin Place,
Sydney. .
IN THE SUPREME COURT OP IsfEW SOUTH
WALES —In Divorce.
TO EDWARD NICHOLAS DE OOSSE late of Moruya.
—TAKE NOTICE that JESSIE CATHERINE DE
COSSE has filed a Petition for Divorce No. 2699
of 1943 on the ground of desertion without just
cause or excuse for three years and upwards If you
wish to defend you may enter an appearance at the
Divorce Office Supreme Court King Street Sydney by
the Bth day of December 1943 and obtain a copy of
the petition without charge from O. M. MARSH
& HARVEY Solicitors 28 Martin Place Sydney.—
(T.«.) C. K. BODY. Registrar.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF -NEW SOUTH
WALES — In Divorce.
BETWEEN ERIC HENRY MITCHELL Petitioner
EVELYN JESSMOND MITCHELL (formerly Evelyn
Jessmond Watt) Respondent AND. ARTHUR PHIL-
LIPS Co-respondent. TO ARTHUR PHILLIPS of
Katoomba.—TAKE NOTICE that the said ERIC
HENRY MITCHELL has filed a Petition for Divorce
No. 850 of 1943 on the ground of his wife’s adultery
with you If you wish to defend you may enter an
appearance at the Divorce Court Supreme Court King
Street Sydney by the Fifteenth day of November
1943 and obtain a copy of the petition without
charge from HERBERT SMITH Solicitor Sydney.—
(1.5.) 0. K. BODY, Registrar.
Sfame/td soi/al ffiirfile Sum
Caucasus side of the Kerch Strait was
still proceeding, and that the town ot
Taman and other localities had been cap-
tured —the Germans said earlier that
Taman had been “evacuated” along with
the civil population, their cattle and pos-
sessions. The Russians claimed 20,000
killed and 3000 prisoners in the final
battle.
On the Middle Dnieper three bridge-
heads at natural crossing points-—about
40 miles north of Kiev, 40 miles south-
east of Kiev, at Pereyaslavl and south-
east of Kremenchug—were established
against fierce enemy artillery fire and
maintained against strong counter-attacks.
South-west of Velikiye Luki, on the
Kalinin front, Russian troops, it was re-
ported, had made a 15-mile-deep break
into German defences along a 15-mile
front, and had taken the rail junction
of Neval after two days’ fierce fighting,
together with a hundred inhabited locali :
ties. Further north, 50 miles s.-e. of
Schlusselburg, at the south-west corner
of Lake Ladoga, the town of Kirishi,
where the Moscow-Leningrad railway
joins the railway to Novgorod, Neval and
Vitebsk, had been captured.
The Germans admitted penetrations in
the Neval area which “reached some
depth in fluctuating fighting,” but claimed
huge Russian losses which forced a Red
Army grouping in some sectors.
Dietmar’s Review
Most German comment takes its tone
from Major-General Dietmar, the official •
radio spokesman, who appears only in
crises. He said that Russian gains were
realities and therefore could not be over-
looked, but while events everywhere were,
serious for Germany they were merely an
episode and not a decisive phase.
The Russians, it was true, had made
great advances in technique and arma-
ment “in the last few years,” and had
now mobilised the vast masses of reserves
available to them ; but while the Russian
Command showed a commendable tenac-
ity it remained to be seen whether long-
term strategy played a part in Red Army
calculations—which he doubted. At
present, Russian man-power superiority
was so great that Stalin could afford to
make blunders.
Dietmar declared that the German
High Command had chosen the smaller
sacrifice of abandoning terrain rather
than accept heavy losses to forces numeri-
cally inferior. He added that retirement
must reach a limit about which he did
not know the High Command’s inten-
tion ; but already much shorter com-
munications had been gained and terrain
had been reached in which rivers, marshes
and hill country were helping to break
up the Russian ifne and present the
German armies with many advantageous
defence positions.
Also:
The scorched-earth policy, the technique
of which we partly learned from the
example of our enemy, will now cost him
dearly as he advances across his own con-
quered territory.
So far we have always got over the
difficulty of unequal numbers by a policy
of aggressive defence, but success depends
ultimately on shortened lines and defence
in depth to ward olf encirclement.
The policy of the High Command, Diet-
mar suggested, had been to secure suffi-
cient delay both on the Mediterranean
and Russian fronts to allow the full
mobilisation of man-power (German and
satellite) and to devise and implement
measures and equipment to offset new
Allied weapons and methods.
Russian v. German Man-power
A United Press correspondent declares
that the Russians have now over
3,000,000 front-line troops, including 91
infantry, 39 Guards, 15 motorised, 24
tank, 25 air, two air-borne and six cavalry
divisions, all specifically mentioned in
Russian communiques and orders-of-the-
day. Moscow sources suggest that on the
line south of Staraya Russa—leaving out
Leningrad and the Finnish front, where
there were about 38 divisions a month
ago—Marshal Stalin has been using 300
divisions. The German and satellite
maximum this year was 228 divisions in
July on the eastern front, including the
north, and some of these have since been
withdrawn to the west.
Russian superiority, is, therefore, very
real The Red Army is able to devote
all its resources to one front. It has not
5000 miles of western European front on
the J4orth Sea and English Channel and
in thie Mediterranean to guard, as has
Germany. On the other hand, it has
greatly lengthening communications, and
a great problem is handling the reoccu-
pied territories, savagely ruined, under
winter conditions. <
Winter is so close that already Russian
units are changing into winter uniforms.
And the front is in a nebulous condi-
tion. Except for those actually involved
nobody knows whether the Germans are
merely leaving their positions or being
inexorably pushed. The evidence so far
suggests that they still have control of
their movements.
What happens at Gomel, which is the
joint area between the. central and
southern sectors, and whether, and if so
how, the invaders give way will
give some indication of the true state of
affairs. Moscow claimed on Oct. 10 that
resistance at Gomel was broken.
Nimitz and Mountbatten.
“Ek Dum”: All recent signs indicated
that the Pacific commands were getting
into position for action during the all-
too-short winter north of the Equator.
There is no need for a single supreme
command in the Pacific and Indian
Oceans at present. The Chiefs of
Staffs Committee is in a position to secure
immediate action. Subject to its Gov-
ernments, it determines the strategy and
resources to be used in every war theatre,
Russia excepted.
Thus far the command position and,
strategy in the Pacific and Indian Ocean
zones have been determined by bitter
experience. From the first the war has
been primarily a naval war.
The Jap effort in actual conquest
reached its flood on the west when the
enemy was using thousands of small ves-
sels along the Tenasserim coast and
found bases able for a time to open
a seaway to Rangoon and to the Burmese
river arteries. The tide "began to turn
when he failed to push the invasion of
the Bay of Bengal to a logical conclusion
and either blockade Calcutta or take
the decisive base of Ceylon. Attempts
on Ceylon—though some good British
ships went down in the defence —failed.
The enemy was thrown back on his
haunches. Had this not happened, the
later A.I.F. might not have been able
to return, Australia might have been
invaded on the west, and the sea routes
to Russia, via Iran, might have been
closed. The opening of the Mediter-
ranean —if possible at all —would have
been an empty blessing to Australians.
Yet so anonymous has been the effort
of the navy and the R.A.F. working with
it in the Indian Ocean that few Aus-
tralians know the name of Vice-
Admiral Layton, who achieved the block-
age of Japan’s westward move, or that of
Rear-Admiral Tennant, naval C.-in-C. in
the area which covered our southern
route to Africa in the most perilous
later months of the joint German-
Japanese U-boat campaign. A survivor
of the Repulse sinking, Rear-Admiral
Tennant a few months later assumed his
onerous flag command in the south-west
—it reaches across the ocean beyond the
Westralian coast.
Nimitz’s Work
Six months or so after Pearl Harbor
it could be said that the Japanese advance
in the Pacific had been stopped and con-
fined. Admiral Nimitz’s forces in that
time had smashed up Marshall Islands
bases important to the continued south-
ward drive of the enemy, had turned the
Jap effort in the Aleutians from a tidal
movement into an operation of outposts,
and had consolidated the defence of New
Caledonia, possession of which would have
enabled the Japanese to invade Australia
by seizing Townsville and Gladstone, less
than 900 miles away. His ships and their
aircraft had won the Battle of the Coral
Sea. Had the enemy won, Moresby and
the Torres Straits? were Japanese for the
taking ; there would have been no gallant
A.I.F. drive to Buna nor any push on Lae
and Salamaua. And the Battle of Mid-
way wrecked Japan’s hopes of securing
the Hawaiian Islands.
Guadalcanal’s Significance
Finally on August 7, 1942, it fell to
Admiral Nimitz and his commanders to
implement the first actual turning of the
tide. The landing on Guadalcanal and
the work done there until the enemy
spearhead had been destroyed and his
furthest conquests snatched from him, all
in the hands of the South Pacific Com-
mand, had a significance beyond any
up to that point in the war in
the Pacific, The first step in the
blow which started the retreat was made
under R.A.N. command. The flag-
officer in naval charge at the landing
in the Tulagi area was Rear-Admiral
Crutchley, V.C., R.N., and many Austra-
lians, including the gallant complement
of H.M.A.S. Canberra, shared in the
operation.
Within Admiral Nimitz’s jurisdiction,
too, fell the Solomons battle , in
November, 1942, in which Prince of
\Vales and Repulse were avenged. Apart
from carriers and smaller ships, 4he
enemy admitted the loss of two battle-
ships, one-fifth of the whole of his capital-
ship fleet at the beginning of the war ;
the only two enemy battleships loss of
which is properly authenticated.
Since then naval events have still played
the dominant part. The withdrawal of
heavy Japanese units from the far south
merged the Solomons area into the Aus-
tralian zone. This was followed by the
thinning-out of enemy ships from the
New Guinea area.
Effects of Tunisia
Last April it was held that this country
was still in grave danger, with 250,000
enemy soldiers menacing it on the north.
Early in June Mr. Curtin was satisfied
that the danger was over. He said Dr.
Evatt .had. secured sufficient 'planes to
bring the Australian-zone aerial forces
up to strength, though these had not yet
been put to use.
But between April and June the battle
of Tunisia had been fought and won,
and the routes through the Mediterranean
were open. Before that, Pearl Harbor
had once more become a first-class base,
and Allied dominance in both naval and
mercantile shipping had been established
right up to Japan’s naval borders.
The Tunisian victory seems to have
been a signal for the drawing-in of enemy
horns from the Aleutians to the Solomons
and from the Solomons to Russia.
This week, approaching the first anni-
versary of the naval battle of the Solo-
mons, the Japanese have no longer
reasons for delusions. In the South
Pacific, except perhaps for Bougainville,
they are not even trying to hold what
they had.
Hard on the tucked-in tails of their
main forces are the bombers of the U.S.
admiral and the Sea Bees detached to
the South-west Pacific zone to build the
stepping-stones by which landing forces
reach their objectives in the Solomons.
In New Guinea, too, save where they
are cornered as at Finschhafen, the Japs
seem to prefer to flee rather than to fight.
Further north terrible events are closing
in on them from both sides.
West to East
On the west “Mountbatten Takes Over
New Post.” Indian forces, suitably
brigaded with their beloved Scotties,
strong British and American air forces
and the British Navy in strength are
assembled along the Burma-Malayan
offensive front, while British and Ameri-
can supplies and reinforcements of ships
and African labor pour in along the well-
guarded sea routes from Suez and from
the Australian zone. To New Delhi went
Lieut.-General Somervell, head of the
U.S. Army Supply Services, after a visit
to Australia and New Guinea.
On the east Admiral Nimitz is confer-
ring at Pearl Harbor with Admiral King,
C.-in-C., and with Vice-Admiral Halsey
of the South Pacific Command.
Within a fortnight past Admiral
Nimitz has advertised the length of his
reach by bombing Marcus Island in the
Bonin group, only 900 miles from Japan,
and Wake Island, 2300 miles from
Honolulu, 1985 miles from Yokosuka,
about the same distance from the nearest
point in the Bismarcks and not so far
from the Gilberts, which also had recent
attention from the Nimitz forces. And
Nimitz’s subs, have pushed right into the
Chosen Strait, between Japan and Korea,
to bombard one of its fortified islands.
With Mountbatten and Nimitz grimly
preparing their medicine, mails from
Tokyo are full of gifts to their “brothers”
in the East Asian Co-prosperity Sphere:
“freedom” and so on. Meanwhile the
A.1.F., the N.Z. and U.S. forces turf the
Japs out of battered New Guinea and
Solomon Island strongholds.
In brief:
Berlin Radio declares that German para-
troops have taken over the protection of the
Vatican. The natural reaction of Catholics all
over the world was to pray for the safety of
the Pope.
* * * *
Admiral Dudley Pound, whom Admiral
Andrew Cunningham succeeded in 1939 as
C.-in-C. in the Mediterranean, has retired as
First Lord of the Admiralty, and Admiral
Cunningham has succeeded his old friend
again. Admiral Pound had been ill for some
time, but kept going until he almost had to
be carried away from the Admiralty, where
he had lived for most of the period of the war.
Though there has been a general switch round
of commands, the more important appointments
have yet to be announced. ■
* # * *
A joint Churchill-Roosevelt communique
announced on October 10 that during the first
three weeks of September no Allied merchant-
man was lost through U-boat attack. On
September 19 15 U-boats concentrated against
a west-bound Atlantic convoy and in a
combat sank three escort vessels and several
merchant ships. More U-boats than convoy
ships were sunk. August and September
together were the best months of the war tor
ship sinkings. But “the resumption of pack
tactics” (the statement declared) “is evidence ot
the enemy’s intention to spare no effort to turn
the tide of the sea war.” Admiral Doemtz,
the German naval C.-in-C., threatens that
U-boats with new weapons and devices will
carry out naval warfare on a scale unprece-
dented.
* * * *
Tokyo Radio admits that on Octpber 5 an
Allied submarine entered the Tsushima Strait
and torpedoed the ferry Koneon Maru, plying
between Shimonosaki and Fusan in Korea.
Only 70 out of 616 persons on board were sifved.
It i» a reminder of what could be done to
Japanese traffic if the Allies had a few bases
on the Siberian coast.
$ *
Red Army losses in killed, wounded and
captured total 10,000,000.— U.5. Under-Secretary
for War Patterson, recently in Australia, in a
statement cabled to Sydney “Sun Only a
people with immense resolution could stand such
losses, which exceed the population of these
southern Dominions by a million and a quarter.


d
TODAY.. . as in the 15th Century-
Leonardo da Vinci, probably the most versatile
man who ever lived, invented, among many other
devices, a pile-driver which is identical, except
for motive power, with the huge pressure
hammers in use to-day.
LJERE was a basic Idea which had
* 'survived over four centuries, because
da Vinci's inventive genius saw clearly a
long way ahead. So, in the evolution
of a great engineering plant, when the
foundation is right, its development must
be right, too. To-day A.T.L, in response
to the demands of war, has developed
an organization equipped to handle the
most intricate and delicate precision
engineering
When you think of precision engin*
eering, precision tools or gauges—
think of . . •
AUTOMATIC TOTALISATORS LIMITED
SYDNEY . . . MELBOURNE . . . PERTH . . . BRISBANE
Public Notice. ______
I, PETER BRITAN! US PETERSEN, of Norwegian
Nationality, born at Bergen, Norway, and resident
30 years in Australia, now residing at 83 Kent
Street, Sydney, intend to apply for naturalisation
under the Nationality Act 1920-1936.
-'VVv;.
KKfj' *
mm
t OUT
PAIN
this
easy way
X
In cases which do
not quickly respond
to lodex treatment
see your Doctor.
FROM YOUR CHEMIST
PRICE 2/-
IN CASES OF
STIFFand SWOLLEN
JOINTS, SPRAINS,
RHEUMATIC TWINGES
AND STRAINED MUSCLES
lODEX gives
Quick Relief.
The value of lodex has been proved in
thousands of cases. Owing its potency
to its great penetrating power, lodex,
gently massaged into the affected part,
goes right to the seat of the trouble,
reducing inflammation, congestion, and
quickly easing pain.
NO-STAIN lODINE
SPORTING NOTIONS
(Conducted by "PILOT")
Rain in the morning spoilt the attend-
ance at Randwick to some extent, but,
including service men, 35,000 saw
the racing. The track was sticky and
times slow, with Royal Result (7,12) win-
ning the Trial Stakes in 2.8 for a mile and
a quarter against the 2.8| recorded by
Flight (7.6), MacArthur (8.4) and Felt
Pal (7.2) in their respective races at the
same distance. The tote turnovei* was
£89,750 15s.
Abydos gave favorite backers a bad
beginning, as, though he started at a
“can’t lose” price for the Trial Stakes,
he never gave his supporters any hope.
He was squeezed back at barrier-rise, but
did not subsequently run well enough to
suggest that he could have won even if
he had not been unlucky. Orderly went
for an all-the-way win, but weakened
after leading into the straight from Betza
and Royal Result (McGrowdie), and the
last-named, outstaying Betza, won by a
length. Without ever being dangerpus,
Night Parade and Thorn did best of the
remainder. Royal Result is by Royal
Step, who is proving a useful sire.
Another supposed “certainty” in
Majesty went down in the next race, the
Breeders’ Plate. He did not begin well,
but when Buckle, Cragsman and Shan-
non went wide at the straight entrance
he got a run through that gave him a
winning chance. However, Victory Lad
(Moore) had his measure a furlong from
home, and then lasted long enough to
beat the faster-finishing Shannon. Crags-
man and Buckle showed pace, but tired,
and Samoyed (Assignation-Carabine) and
Hawk Craig (Andrea-Coolarran) came
home best of the unplaced lot.
Victory Lad, who was bred by A. W.
Thompson and Co., is by Brueghel from
Chanson (Marconigram-Chanteuse), and
was sold for 180gns. as a yearling. He
is trained by ®. Lewis, who prepared
Moorland when he won last year’s
Breeders’ Plate. Shannon, a 425gns. year-
ling, is by Midstream from Idle Words
(Magpie - Peptamint), and Majesty
(1600gns.) is by Golden Sovereign from
Swiftspear.
Tribal made all the running in the
Craven Plate, but Flight (J. Thompson),
who was always going nicely in second
place, outstayed him over the final fur-
long. Moorland, who was third into the
straight, was cut out of that position by
Veiled Threat in the last 50 yards.
Katanga, Yaralla and Main Topic were
never possibilities, while Shining Night
was whipper-in throughout.
Marcondis (Hanley) was a shade too
good for Fermanagh in the Shorts, in
which both shifted about in the straight,
the latter in particular. Nobleman,
though third, was losing ground at the
winning post. Faerie Queen, after again
commencing slowly, was a good fourth.
Chinook and Hesione, who led into the
straight, tired badly, and, though Magi
and Panchio were backed, neither got
near the front at any part. War Effort
and Baroda ran fairly, and both are
worth keeping in mind for a minor race.
MacArthur’s (Bartle) Clibborn Stakes
win verged on the sensational. He met
some of the best three-year-olds, and
after leading into the straight ran away
from them, beating the second horse,
Tennessee, by eight lengths. After being
prominent throughout, Highgate was
third, just ahead of War Eagle, who,
though disappointing, did better than
Mayfowl. The failure of the last-men-,
tioned two emphasises the fact that it
is often inadvisable to attach overmuch
importance to brilliant track work. How-
ever, excuse was possible, because of the
soft track. Code and Royal Peer were
at the head of affairs for nearly a mile.
Feltpal - S (F . smith) Squatters' Handi-
cap su P ccess ' conduded * pleasant day - s
racing for the books, only one winner
starting at less than double figures.
Gryphon had a useful lead from Gaunt-
Hanpur and Beau Pere entering the
straight, where Feltpal was sixth. Corn-
fencing the final furlong Gauntlet led,
but Feltpal was too good for him over
the last blt - Panurge and Wellesley came
g™? a lon § way back at the half-mile to
finish third and fourth respectively. The
favorites, Beau Timide and Cream
Puff, were complete failures. The former
dropped right out after being fourth at
the turn, and Cream Puff, who had not
raced for over three months, was never
in a winning position.
* * * *
Amana (10 to 1), Mosfino (25 to 1)
and Damalis (14 to 1) advanced their
Caulfield Cup claims by winning their
respective races at Fl&nington on Satur-
day. Amana has to be taken on trust as
a stayer, but he outstayed Tranquil Star
over the mile of the first Melbourne
Stakes, and will meet her 81b. better in
the Cup. Mosfino, whose previous wins
had been recorded at provincial tracks,
unexpectedly reached w.f.a. form by de-
feating the Melbourne Cup favorite, Pre-
cept, in the second Melbourne Stakes.
He ran right up to his brilliant track
trials, and, if he can run 1| mile, is a
Cup possibility with 7.6, or 171 b. less than
he carried on Saturday. Skipton and The
Joker were well back at the finish of
Mosfino’s race, but the distance was too
short for them.
Nine-year-old Damalis staged perhaps
the best Caulfield Cup trial by defeating
Heart’s Desire and Valour in the Stand
Handicap. He won running away after
being seemingly hopelessly placed on the
turn. Damalis is the only penalised horse
in the Cup field. He was raised 61b. for
his recent Mentone Cup success, but
cannot be further penalised for his win
on Saturday, when he carried 51b. more
than his Cup weight.
Simmering, racing for the first time
since her success in the Sires’ Produce
Stakes in March, landed a plunge in the
Edward Manifold Stakes, one mile, for
three-year-old fillies. Backed from sevens
to threes she finished much too well for
the favorite, Night Link, and Three
Wheeler. She survived a protest for in-
terference, but her rider, J. Neale, was
suspended for two months. No filly has
won the Victoria Derby since Frances
Tressady in 1923, but Simmering now
enters largely into calculations for that
race. Her other engagements include the
Caulfield Guineas, Oaks and two Cups,
and it is difficult to visualise defeat for
her in the Oaks. Her trainer, L. Robert-
son, has another likely Derby candidate
in Lawrence, who finished strongly
(fourth) in the Melbourne Stakes won by
Amana. Precept, however, still attracts
as the probable Derby winner, and next
Saturday he may win the Caulfield
Guineas from Simmering and Lawrence.
First two-year-old races of the Mel-
bourne season were Von by Whizbeau, a
filly by John James from Beauneli, and
Irish Myth, a gelding by Hellespont from
Kilkenny Lady. Irish Myth, who cost
220gns. as a yearling, recorded three-
quarters of a second faster time than the
filly.
* * * *
If last week’s form at Randwick could
be accepted as absolutely correct several
horses could be written off for important
races. Marcondis and Fermanagh beat a
number of Epsom candidates in the
Shorts, and while there is some doubt
whether either is quite good enough
for next Saturday’s mile they appeared
to dispose of the prospects of Magi,
Panchio, Kingsdale, Chinook and Mer-
rimba. The soft going may have told
against the last-mentioned lot, but it is
now difficult to stand any of them for
the Epsom.
Modulation was a course withdrawal
from the- Shorts, and in taking that step
his owner and trainer were probably
wise, as, Miile he was%then slightly back-
ward in condition, he did not show parti-
cular liking for a soft track in the Tram-
way Handicap last month. His favoritism
for the Epsom is still assured, and as
Gold Salute, Dewar, Rimveil and Lord
Neith were not among Saturday’s run-
ners they still hold their ground in the
quotations.
Opinions differ as to the best Derby
trial, but that of MacArthur was first-
class. He will meet Mayfowl 121 b. and
War Eagle 71b. worse than in the Clib-
born Stakes, but it is difficult to com-
pute how much he beat them. It is im-
probable he will be greatly affected by
the additional 61b. he will have to carry,
and going upon the way he travelled
from the top of the straight the extra
quarter-mile is unlikely to trouble him.
Firmer going may do a lot for Mayfowl
and War Eagle, but there is no sound
reason for supposing it will benefit them
to a much greater extent than MacArthur.
Bartle said Moorland was not suited
by Saturday’s conditions, and though that
colt’s Craven Plate showing discounted
his Derby chance it might be inadvisable
.to wipe him off for that race or the
Metropolitan. Sticking closely to form,
however, he does not now read a better
proposition than either MacArthur or
Flight. The latter may be affected by the
rise from 7.6 (her Craven Plate weight)
to 8.5, but there is no getting away from
the fact that she outstayed Tribal and
Moorland at their last meeting.
Among the older horses that competed
last week Veiled Threat’s third in the
Craven Plate was impressive. He fin-
ished strongly, and it is possible that next
week will see him back to his best. In
the interim he may pick up the Colin
Stephen Stakes. Main Topic’s running
in the Craven Plate was not an improve-
ment upon anything he has recently
shown, and though, as was to be expected,
Shining Night was outclassed in the
Craven Plate his Metropolitan backers
would be happier if he had displayed a
little better form.
In the Squatters’ Handicap Gauntlet
ran well with 71b. more than fiis Metro-
politan weight, but it is probable that
over the longer distance Feltpal, though
meeting him 101 b. worse, will again beat
him. Wellesley (Veiled Threat’s stable
companion) ran fairly in the Squatters’
Handicap with his Metropolitan weight,
but It’s Funny, Abspear, Ballot, Two’s
Company and Beau Timide did nothing
to enhance their prospects in the last-
mentioned race.
* * * *
S.A. Jockey Club, on resuming racing,
has reappointed its old three stipendiary
stewards, Hogan (chairman), Rowell and
Drage; also Oscar Hyman as handi-
capper.'
_ .
Miscellaneous.
At Leichhardt in two “elimination”
contests for middleweights Max,
Cameron outpointed Jack Day, and Jack
McNamee stopped Bobby Clarke. Day
gave a capital exhibitioh of butting,
“rabbit-killing” and refusing to break
from clinches. McNamee was too hefty
for Clarke.
The third Patrick-Sloan match was
exciting while it lasted. With nicely-
timed rights the much heavier Sloan
rattled Patrick in the first and second
rounds, and, although left uppercuts
snapped Sloan’s head back, another right
had Patrick groggy at corners. Recover-
ing, he came out for the third with f
rib-bending right that slammed Sloan
against the ropes. Sloan shook off the
effects and another short right knocked
Patrick to his knees. Up before a
count could be commenced the champiofi
got the apparently astonished Sloan intb
position for a left to the chin that
knocked him out.
FOR RANDWICK.
(Before acceptances.)
By "PILOT.”
Gimcrack Stakes: Platonic, 1 ;
Birthright, 2; Malvanah or Prin-
cess Beautiful, 3.
Colin Stephen Stakes: Veiled
Threat, 1 ; Katanga, 2 ; Abspear, 3.
A.J.C. Derby; MacArthur, 1 ;
'Moorland, 2 ; Flight, 3.
Epsom Handicap: Prince, 1 ;
Modulation, 2; Gold Salute or
Marcondis, 3.
Sydney Handicap: Lambeth, 1 ;
Grand Fils, 2; Moondarewa or
Feltpal, 3.
Kensington Handicap: High
Flight, 1 ; War Effort, 2 ; Valiant
Garde or Battle King, 3.


Women’s Letters
From Melbourne
One day of real heat has caused a hasty
cataloguing of summer wardrobes and
sent thousands shopping-bent, coupon-
books in hand. Mid-city pavements have
been uncomfortably crowded, and the
doors of the big shops have sent out a
buzz of femininity on the hunt. The
headache facing most women-shoppers is
the comparatively small range of patterns
in lightweight materials, making it a
one-in-six chance that the lady next door
will be wearing a frock of the same
material. Much of the new stocks of silks
and cottons comes from Britain.
For the lass who has exhausted even
grandpa’s coupons and just hasn’t a thing
to face high temperatures with, there’s the
scarf-skirt idea, which started in New
York as a fashion craze and has caught
on like a bushfire in rationed London.
The idea is that you take two bright
scarves (best are those big square ones
that catch the eye in the shop and then
spend their time in the bottom drawer
because they are too large for any useful
purpose) and sew up the sides, skirt-
fashion. The brighter and odder the two
the better. •
Enthusiasms go round the world in no
time and spread from London and New
York to. Timbuctoo and Lapland as if by
magic. A case in point was the Teachers’
Training College’s marionette show on
Friday night, one of many the T.T.C. has
had in the last few months. Marionettes
are of respectable antiquity, but it’s a long
time since the English-speaking world
saw much of them except for Punch and
Judy. Lately news has come from Eng-
land and America that the making and
working of tiny puppets have become
tremendously popular, so Melbourne is
well in the fashion.
There’s more than just amusement
value in the Puppet Theatre. Overseas it’s
been found to be an aid to the recovery
of men who are getting back their ppwers
and poise. Puppets can be made
from any scraps of material, and look
very effective, so there’s the craftsman’s
interest in making the little figures (some
of which are .operated by as many as
eight strings). One English hospital has
made a wonderful collection of puppets
from pegs, straw, matchboxes, etc.
There’s much discussion over mayoral
concerts, and the Lord Mayor himself has
been popping a few questions at the
various dos he attends officially to see
what the general reaction is. The point
at issue is whether these entertainments
should continue on their present rather
“low-brow” lines or go into a higher
musical atmosphere. Those who are in
favor of the trend argue that people who
go to concerts at all are usually fairly
musical-minded and furthermore that
there isn’t much point in wasting fine
singers and a good orchestra on “Mother
McCree” and “Love’s Old Sweet Song.”
Though it sounds like Hats for Hotten-
tots and may have provoked a few smiles
on that account, Mrs. A. L. Wettenhall’s
scheme for making satchels for Fuzzy-
Wuzzies has sound sense behind it. Those
who know New Guinea’s brown boys
well say that there’,? nothing they like so
much as a gay-looking bag to keep their
personal effects and a banana or so in.
The lady has started a working bee to
provide a bag for every native carrier by
Christmas. The idqa is to express in a
practical way some of the gratitude
mothers of soldiers fighting in New
Guinea must feel towards the native
carriers and stretcher-bearers.
A.W.N.L. conference delegates pro-
pose to thrash out the question: “Do
you want a little cottage and a garden
or do you prefer being a fiatite? ”
They’re also asking questions about the
details of various housing schemes and
other post-war reconstruction plans. One
suggestion is the ready-made house
bought over the counter in which the
whole outfit is put together like a mec-
cano set. As grown trees can be trans-
planted it should be possible to get that
old cottage-garden look around the
ready-made house in the ‘same time as
it takes to put it up.
The way the pennies rolled in to last
year’s Paddy’s Market at the Town Hall
made another this year a certainty. Date
will be the 29th of this month, and
organisers and stall-holders will be the
same as before, with a few additions. The
Angliss lady will, as usual, direct the
general plan, stall-holders being left to
work out their own detailed schemes.
Cold lunch for the peckish will be sup-
plied by the Town Hall Auxiliary, and
tea and buns are to be on hand continu-
ously. A new feature will be the sale
of entries in the doll competition run by
the Town Hall Appeals section.
With its splendid musical background
to a fantastic parade of characters
Mozart’s “Magic Flute,” adequately pre-
sented, is like a dream, pleasant but
strange. The National Theatre Movement
producers caught the atmosphere with
careful attention to costuming and scenery
as well as to the musical side, which, inci-
dentally, had the aid of some good voices.
Decor was the work of John Rowell and
two young pupils, Joan Fenessy and
Gwen Sergeant. The costume worn by
the Queen of the Night was originally
worn by Gertrude Johnston in her Covent
Garden debut in the same opera.
Peggy tCnibb, here pictured by Athol L.
Shmith, is one of this city’s most promis-
ing young dramatic sopranos, and should
be seen in many roles if and when the
much-heralded Australian opera gets
under way. Peggy struck the ear, and
the eye incidentally, attractively in the
Melb. Symphony Orchestra production
of “Carmen.” Last year she had an im-
portant competitive success, and she has
been heard a lot since in Red Cross and
A.C.F. benefit shows.
She looked very graceful at the
students’ concert at the Con, last week
in a pink and silver blouse over a black
satin skirt, the blouse sporting a long
basque which didn’t impede breathing
and made the general effect much more
attractive than that achieved by the tight-
laced period frocks so often seen on
concert platforms.
Too much talk only confuses the
digger in the kitchen plot, Garden Army
organisers say, and instead of depending
on lectures they are making a tour of
the suburbs giving demonstrations. It’s
news to most city-dwellers to discover
that there are right and wrong ways even
of using spade and hose, and it’s a help
to suburbanites to be told just what the
* soil in their locality will and won’t grow.
The Garden Army is supplying army de-
hydration plants with vegetables, so
growers have the fun of thinking that
perhaps the peas they are raising will
find their way into some front-line
soldier’s ration.
A silk taffeta skirt that graced a family
wedding a generation ago made part of
the bridal array of Alma Sisely, married
on Saturday to A.B. Keith Collins at
Toorak kirk. Bridesmaid was the bride’s
sister, Dr. Lorna Sisely, one of this Stale’s
younger medicoes. They are daughters
of Mr. and Mrs. Harrie Sisely, of Wan-
garatta, and the bridegroom is the elder
son of Mr. and Mrs. G. A. Collins, of
Geelong, so the wedding was of country
interest. Afterwards friends met at the
home of Mrs. L. R. MacFarlane, the
bride’s aunt, to wish the couple all the best.
One of a trio newly appointed to the
rank, Squadron-Officer Doris Carter was
one of this State’s leading women athletes
before she entered the W.A.A.A.F. She
represented Australia at the last Olympic
Games. For some time she was O.C.
W.A.A.A.F. Officers’ Training Section,
part of her qualifications for this ]ob
being experience as a Victorian Educa-
tion Department schoolteacher. She’s
seeri service on operational stations, too.
Slim and tall, she is described by air-
women as looking “super” in uniform.
From Sydney
Blondes and berets occurred with
frequency at the first day of the
spring meeting. The beret in every
one of its 87 or more varieties
proved as attractive to the girl with the
light-brown hair as to lasses ranging from
ash-blonde to red-gold. There were other
hats, of course, notably that worn by
Mrs. Hector Livingstone. This was in
broderie Anglaise, pale almond green. It
was small, of double brim and stiffened
crown. Noreen Dangar’s hat, too, was
worth attention. It was of
design in cool grey chinchilla and velvet.*
Two narrow velvet bands kept it in posi-
tion —-a very enviable hat, indeed. The
Hon. Henrietta Loder was there, suit and
hat in soft shades of delphinium.
There was quite a military swagger
about Mrs. Joe Coen’s blue cape. Mrs.
Stanley Crick, in navy and white, looked
crisp and businesslike. Mrs. Dennis
Allen, Mrs. Jimmy Bancks, the wife of
General Morshead (navy blue her choice)
and Pat Murray (in black) were others
adorned with the new cardboard brooch
issued by the A.J.C. in place of the metal
brooch of former years. The craze for
Snoods threatens to sweep the millinery
world like a sirocco. They were pendent
from many a small hat. Rada P’enfold
Hyland’s in black chenille contrived a
look of old Spain or maybe Mexico.
Mrs. Bob Buckland was another in the
afternoon’s rally at Randwick.
Martin-place will never listen to a finer,
a more sincere tribute to its fighting men
than that of A.I.F. nursing sister
Katherine Neale. This was the highlight
of last Friday’s Fourth Liberty Loan
rally. There was the background o£ ex-
perience to Sister Neale’s speech, for she
served at the Ninth Division Base Hos-
pital abroad. The loan rally followed
the march of 3000 women of the services
through the city. The Australian Army
Nursing Service headed the parade, and
swinging along in fine style followed
W.R.A.N.S., A.W.A.S., A.A.M.W.S. and
W.A.A.A.Fs. Matron H. Croll led the
march.
This attractive member of the
A.A.M.W.S. is Mary Gowan Innes; a
daughter of the Allen Innes couple, as
popular and widely known in New
Guinea as they are in Sydney. Gowan
herself has lived most of her young life
here, and mother (known in the city’s
writing circles) made Sydney her chief
home about five or six years ago, but
father came from his loved North only
a year or so back, war conditions being
responsible. Gowan, a former pupil of
Kambala, is stationed at Adelaide.
Norton Trevaire photograph.
The pastel blues in Mrs. H. V. Evatt’s
frock and Dora Jarret’s topcoat, with
the dash of burgundy in Mary Edwards’s
frock and cape, seemed the right coloring
to adorn the stage at the opening of a
water-color show. Mrs. Evatt made the
opening speech and Mary Edwards the
vote of thanks. . Margaret Coen, with
her smooth black hair and black frock-
ing, was a congratulated exhibitor.
There’s a peace of soul about this show
that seemed to at least one visitor to be
the right note for the water-colorist to
strike. The water-colorist should be as
pastoral as nature in spring mood, as
piscatorial as a trout in a suji-flecked
stream in Maoriland!
Rex Julius, who has been nearly four
years away on warlike pursuits, was
there with mother and pretty sister Ruth.
Rex, like father Harry Julius, is an artist,
and has brought back from his sailings
in many seas four or five crammed sketch-
books. Bim Hilder, too, carries on the
torch handed down by his father. Jeanie
Ranken, in charge of the show, gave
friendly greeting at the door. President
J. W. Maund, who wore the benign look
of mercy tempering justice (he’s a man of
law in daily life), was host to a tea party
for all-comers. Mrs. Andrews, Rosalind
Evatt, the Erik Langkers, F. Rodriguez
and Alfred Stephen were part of an ani-
mated afternoon, from which the society’s
staunch member H*W. Grace was missed.
“Back the attack!” spiritedly cried
Priminister Curtin When he opened the
Fourth Liberty Loan in Sydney last week.
Attack! That has a fine sound compared
with the no less courageous but more
cautious Defence which was the point of
Australia’s weapon when the struggle
with the venomous fellows from Nip-
pon started. In full witness of the chang-
ing tide in Australian affairs, the outside
of the Town Hall was bathed in light.
A 1,000,000-power searchlight flung the
apprehensive shadow of fear far from
the civic stronghold. The public’s part
is to see that never again can the aggres-
sor compel the blacking-out of public
building or humble home. Australia
is asked to back the attack with
£125,000,000. And it can and will do
so. Women in industry can take quite
a big part in buying bonds. Let this be
a land of “women in bondage” that
liberty may be the heritage of generations
to come.
At St. Andrew’s, Roseville, Jeanette
Toose became Mrs. Walter Davis (Walter
is a sergeant in the A.1.F.), ’maided by
her two sisters, Waaaf Margaret and
Nurse May. Stan Toose (“barrister-at-
law, but farmer-at-heart,” his family says)
gave his daughter away, and neighbor
Judge Edwards spoke up for the brides-
maids at the reception, which was held
at home.
An easy and pleasant way of raising
a small cheque for a pet war-time charity
is offered by the directors of Whitehall
Productions. Wednesday is war-effort
matinee day at the Minerva Theatre, and
the management offers, on a party of not
fewer than 30 people arranged in the in-
terest of some war charity, a generous
deduction per person. For instance, if
the party is a front-stall one, instead of
the . usual ss. 9d. the charge would be
3s. 3d. In this way the organiser would
have 30 half crowns for her particular
fund. Back stalls and back circle, of
course, clear lower concessions. Then
there’s the chance to be the lucky party
whose name is pulled out of the hat by
Edwin Styles at the end of a perform-
ance. This means that the directors write
out a cheque equal to the amount cleared
by the lucky group for the charity indi-
cated. Mrs. Marshall, of Parramatta,
brought a group from the Goodwill Club
last week, and hers was the lucky group.
The Sydney Girls’ High School has
attained its sixtieth year, and there were
great celebrations of the diamond jubi-
lee last week among its pupils, past and
present. The first school was in Eliza-
beth-street, just about where David
Jones’s now stands. Its first headmistress
was Mrs. L. A. S. Garvin, who reigned
till 1919. Then Florence Campbell took
over and remained in charge till
1942. The present head is Miss L.
Geer. This school has turned out
many talented, some really brilliant
women, and in the days when the higher
education for the sex was just a young
sprout many of the pupils went
on to Sydney University and graduated
in Arts and Science. A day of celebra-
tions closed with a jubilee dinner in the
State ballroom. Guest of honor* was
Lady Wakehurst. A message was read
from Ethel Turner (Mrs. Curlewis), who
was one of the school’s first-year girls.
Pianist Arthur Denereaz drops a note
to say that he is off to Melbourne to-give
a recital in the Assembly Hall, Mel-
bourne, on October 27. While in the
southern capital Arthur will stay at % the
home of violinist Ernest Llewellyn, his
brother-in-law.
The thirty-fourth exhibition of the
Arts and Crafts Society repays a visit.
Callers this afternoon will be regaled
with a demonstration of craftwork, and
tomorrow Mrs. Pennink will speak of
the Dutch home. There are, amidst the
displays of the Australian worker in
china, pottery, silverware and so on,
tables on which delicate wares from the
lands of our Allies are set out with good
effect. There is not a woman with soul
so dead who will not exclaim over the
cobweb lace, the fine porcelain on
France’s table. This was arranged by
Mrs. Andre Brenac. Ikons of truly
spiritual appeal as well as fine artistry
dominate the Russian section. Here Mrs.
Gorski was responsible. A blue bowl
of tulips and a typical still life call atten-
tion to Holland. Beaten silverware and
rich embroideries are among China’s con-
tribution.
When Australia settles down to post-war
plans a prominent place should be found
for shops of locally-made toys and woven
bags and scarves, such as are shown by
patients of the Navy, Army and Air
Force hospitals. Such craftwork makes
an interesting and money-making hobby
for a man whose war injuries may neces-
sitate spells of resting from arduous
work. The toys the patients have made
have at the same time humor and cuddly
qualities. There is nothing these men
can’t do well, from needlework to weav-
ing, from the making of macrame bags
and belts to tooled leatherwork. Men-
tion, too, must be made of Ada New-
man’s turquoise blues and greens, of
Mollie Quick’s cyclamen spotted supper
cloth and napkins, and of Rosalie Wil-
son’s Carrickmacross lace mat,


-6 I
ft
h, m
V _
n
i nv
»
N iy\
T
S’
More than three-quarters of a million Australian men and
women are serving in the fighting and auxiliary forces. So
someone has to prepare two million meals a day, and
efficient cooking has become a national service.
AGA, the original heat-storage Cooker, made in Britain,
is playing its part in fulfilling this vast requirement. AGA
Cookers have been supplied to the Navy, Army, and Air
Force, for unit kitchens or military hospitals, to the American
Army and the Ministry of Munitions. So if delivery of your
AGA Cooker is not made with normal promptness, please
bear in mind the urgent needs of the fighting men and
the auxiliary services.
Whether in military or civilian use, the AGA Cooker burns
continuously; cooks fast or slow as desired; conserves food
flavours, and is almost unbelievably economical.
A demonstration will be gladly given if you call. Or
write for illustrated catalogue R 10.
AG A
REG D.JU A D MAR K
The Original t Heat Storage
COCKER
MADE IN BRITAIN
LEVIN & CO. LtD.
Est. 1852 (Inc. in N.Z.)
45 King Street, Sydney, and
432 Bourke Street, Melbourne.
S.A. Agents: Colton Palmer & Preston
Ltd., Adelaide.
Tasmanian Agents: A. G. Webster &
Sons, Hobart.
W.A. Agents: Malloch Bros. Ltd.,
Perth.
Qld. Agents: Queensland Primary
Producers' Co-op. Assn. Ltd., Brisbane.
Although the Department, of War
Organisation of Industry has restricted
the sale of domestic cookers, AGA
Cookers can still be delivered where
a permit from the Department can
be obtained. Write to us for full
particulars.
WKm
w
mm
< J
m
V J
.
\ ;jj;. ?
%
H fi
NEW INDUSTRIES ARE BORN
IN THE CRUCIBLE OF WAR
ss
Vi
111 the midst of the maelstrom
of war, with destruction on all
sides, there is nevertheless the
compensating factor of new
production. To meet the
Nation’s needs, great changes
must take place in industry!
And so it has been in Australia,
the engineering ability and
inventiveness of this young
country has risen to meet the
challenge. •
For instance, the modern plant
of Tecnico Limited, like so
many others, is doing work
today comparable with preci-
sion engineering carried out
anywhere in the world. Pearls
are dynamically balanced, sur-
faces analysed and many intri-
cate machining jobs, such as
gear cutting and precision
grinding, are performed.
We are proud of the fact that
Tecnico is in the vanguard of
industrial development. tc.4.43
ill
FORMERLY E.T.C. INDUSTRIES LI M ,
CNR. CARRINGTON RD. & RENWICK ST.. MARRICKVILLF
) N.S.W. PHONE LL 3211
SMOKE-OH!
“It was Mrs. Shaster in a dripping raincoat,
a man’s old felt hat clapped on her bedraggled,
grey-blonde hair.” — Serial.
She must have looked a daisy!
*l* *l-
- On Vote Tour.”—“ Sun
And a little child shall mislead them.
•J* *i*
“Smooth meringue over top of hot tart and
return to oven to tint and set.”
— Woman’s paper.
So that’s how peroxide blondes achieve
that glamorous effect!
Neglect.
“Nowadays women are earning such high
wages that some of them are actually willing
to finance outings with their male friends.”
— Woman’s paper.
This type of girl is not always as satis-
factory as might be imagined. Consider
Nancye. She took me out last night, and
as a result I’ve decided never to see her
"again. True, she bought the d.c. tickets,
shouted chocolates and ice-creams, paid
for the programme and the taxi home.
But I’m through with her nevertheless.
Believe it or not, the mean little thing
didn’t even offer to take me to supper
after the show! -^ AT
❖ * * *
“My husband has become a connoisseur of
lame excuses and an infernal liar since he
started working with women.” — “D.T.” letter.
He caught on pretty quickly, eh?
*l* *}•
“The plants must be kept on the move at all
times.” — Gardening article. •
Unfortunately, most of them have a
rooted objection to this.
❖ ❖
“Coal Fraud Suspected By Police,”
—Heading in daily.
Another black market?
4* *J*
“Dehydration Pants Are Busy.”
— Vic. country paper.
Just getting into their strides.
“She walked with the grace of a gazelle;
sang like a nightingale; but she trembled like a
timid fawn when he asked her to have dinner
with him.” — Novel.
And she probably ate like a horse.
•I* * *l* •J'
“Sunlight treatment in schools is one of the
things recommended in the new order to follow
the war.” — News item.
Yet the old method of tanning had
much to recommend it.
•F 4* HE* •i*
“Married Persons Live Longer Than Single.”
—Paper heading.
Well, exist, anyway.
Dream Girl.
Limned in a pinkish sort of haze.
You shimmered through my dreams,
and stole
My beauty sleep in bygone days;
No substitute could soothe my soul
Nor dull its patient yearning toward
The shining vision I adored.
Until 1 read some Freud, and learned
How my subconscious seethed and
teemed.
My dream to dust and ashes turned
As Freud explained that when I
dreamed
A bubble through my think-tank flew,
And that, my darling, that was you !
P. M. L.
Sport of Fortune.
“N.S.W. Trotting Club showed a surplus of
£26 from greyhound racing and a loss of £l9l
from trotting for the year.”— Sydney “Sun.”
According to official logs,
Such is the following for hounds
(When relatively gauged in pounds).
The trots are going to the dogs!
P. O. M. C.
Consolation.
This writing for money
To keep yourself going
Is not at all funny.
As / should be knowing.
It makes you go batty, ■
You’re all in a flurry.
Still, once you are ratty,
You don’t seem to worry !
NAT.
For the Little Dears.
Manny Z. Zonkerstein, chief produc-
tion executive of Colossal Films, Inc.,
rolled the mangled, unlit cigar from the
side of his mouth he used for talking to
the other side as A 1 Boloni, his chief
script man, entered the sanctum.
“Well, Al,” said the great man as he
disentangled his feet from the forest of
desk ’phones, “what’s cookin’?”
“It’s that noo fillum, chief. We’re
ahead of our quota of hock-and-howls,
period pieces, cahlege-football-and-
co-eds., ice extravaganzas, sarong sisters
and leatherneck-and-gob epics, but they’re
yellin’ for more matinee potboilers soot-
able for little junior. Now, I gotta hunch,
chief.”
“Spill it.”
“I got 2000 feet of that Jack the
Ripper biographical written. I can easy
switch the location to Belatania, where
they believe in werewolves, see? Jack’s
now king of the werewolves. We can
cast Izzy Bohndohm there—he’s got a 56-
inch chest and the durhb look.
“Get the set-up, chief? Foist we’ll have
Jack creepin’ through a charnel house at
midnight—we’ll do it in color so the
blood-red of his eyes’ll show up, see? He’s
on the trail of his mortal enemy Yanken-
stein, the terrible mechanical monster
who’s directed by remote wireless control
by Count Deddstiff, the Half-Faced
Horror who drinks the blood of the vie-
tims brought in by Yankenstein. His
hideout is a graveyard. Good scene there,
chief—wind shriekin’, bats flappin’, owls
hootin’ and the Half-Faced Horror
croakin’ among the boxes of his victims.”
“Swell, Al. But ain’t you bringin’ in
the Baboon-Faced Hunchback with the
great steel hooks in place of hands? He’ll
abscond with the village belle on the eve
of her weddin’, see? Mamie Oomph is
just the blonde type, an’ she’s got Ithe
right bloodcurdlin’ scream. Then we
must have a Panther Man, who’ll be the
hero with the Deathly Spell cast aver
him by his aunt who practises black
magic. He finds out she’s bein’ taken by
the hunchback to the pit that’s guarded
by a monster scorpion, see?”
“That’s great, chief. We can switch
the scene then to the Swamp of Death.
Yankenstein entices the hero to his lair
by a phony message from the goil. As the
full moon rises the hero turns into a
panther. Terrific fight here. As the
monster is about to tear the Panther
Man apart with his great filed teeth —
good scope of close-ups here of awful
face workin’ —a great flash o’ lightning
short-circuits the Half-Faced Horror’s
wireless mechanism and the monster lets
go his grip and sinks down into ooze.
“The Panther Man has a struggle to
free himself from a Strangling Tree that
drips blood. He traces the Half-Faced
Horror to the graveyard, getting there
just in time to see the count drinking the
last drop of blood from the Panther
Man’s aunt. Horror calls up assistance
of skeletons wielding chains, but the spell
is broken by his aunt’s death. Panther
Man changes back to hero, slaps the
Horror and rescues heroine from the
Baboon-Faced Hunchback after all-in
fight against the steel hooks. Final fade-
out with clutching bony hands from a
coffin dragging the Horror underground.”
“Al, that’s terrific! It’s stoopendous, it's
gigantic! It’s —say, though, we’ll never
get that passed for ‘General Exhibition.’ ”
“So what! It’ll be graded ‘Adults
Only.’ But, boy! Will the kids lap it
up? I’ll tell the cockeyed woild. Why,
it’ll be so good they’ll be leapin’ up in
their little beds and screamin’ every night
for a fortnight.”
Bo.


THE OTHER FELLOW'S MIND
The contributor placed first is paid
4£d. pel' line; all others 2*d. per line.
Libraries for Education
In 1939 N.S.W. Parliament passed a
Library Act to encourage the establish-
ment of free libraries by a subsidy to any
local governing body willing to spend
for that purpose not less than 2s. a head
of the population in its area. That the
Act has since lain dormant because its
financial clauses were never proclaimed
is blamed on the war. A shabby excuse.
The Act can, and should, be made opera-
tive without any more delay.
Public thought is swinging to the re-
construction of civil life after the war.
The average man sees the future
through a mist of uncertainty, and is not
at all sure that his leaders are doing
better than grope, as well as they can,
through that mist. If, in the mass, he is
too inarticulate to put his ideals into
words, surely they might be epitomised
in the phrase “a fairer deal and happier
lives for all.”
The urgent need today is know-
ledge of each other. Whether we like
it or not, the whole world is now our
neighbor. We must know the other fel-
low’s conditions, his difficulties and am-
bitions if we are to have that sympathy
with him which alone can make us
tolerant and co-operative.
The key to this, as to all knowledge,
is education, not merely in schools and
universities, but education of the adult
masses —which is exactly the function of
libraries. Hence the importance that one
facet of our post-war planning should
be the provision of free libraries in every
centre.
As a young man in London I recall
the Carnegie Free Libraries. From their
wealth of literature I really began to learn
after I left school. I will not believe that
the establishment of libraries would be
futile, that the people would not use
them. It will be admitted, I suppose,
that an army unit is a fair cross-section
of society. I have had experience of the
use made in one unit of the boxes of
books supplied by the Army Education
Service. Everything readable was read,
from fiction upwards, through history,
geography, biography, science and poli-
tics to philosophy. Our people are
hungry for books.
Why not plan now for the establish-
ment after the war of War Memorial
Free Libraries in every town? We are sure
to have war memorials, and there is need
to turn the people’s instinct to memorialise
into useful channels now, in good time.
It is more than a matter of providing
buildings and books. We need to incul-
cate into the local leaders of the people
a realisation of the vital importance of
education through reading. W T e need
from them enthusiasm and energy: in
too many country towns the local library
—when there is one—is a municipal waif
which no one worries about. More im-
portant still, we need to train skilled
librarians for their difficult and honor-
able calling. A librarian of sympathy
and understanding can be a force in any
community. He can, in fact, be the head-
master of a school directing the study and
training of the men and women who
come to him for books. Librarians can
do much -to shape the destiny of a
people.—H. S. T. (N.S.W.).
Education .and' Independence
That Menzies leader (B. 29/9/’43)
made me wish for more of its kind. The
suggestion to “establish conditions under
which they [the young people] will get
jobs and make careers for themselves”
especially appealed to me, and my
thoughts went back to the practice of a
number of the old Scottish families.
From the richest to the poorest educa-
tion was and is one of the great aims in
their lives. When the senior boy became
old enough to enter the university, the
parents would inform him (if they could
manage to afford the higher education)
that the whole cost of mis training and
living expenses must be paid back to them
within a reasonable lime after he took
his degrees and was earning his living.
This naturally created a spirit of indepen-
dence and confidence and made the lad
appreciative of his education, and was
just and fair to the other members of the
family who would have to get jobs,
attend night lectures and pay their own
way if they wanted the higher education.
This practice could well be adopted by
our universities, businessmen, etc., for
all young people going for the higher
positions in life, and I think that the
result would be better citizens.
I read in The Bulletin years ago that
one of the laws of the Jewish race is that
every child as soon as primary education
is completed must learn a trade, craft
or profession. What a godsend that
would be if adopted in our country,
where such a - great percentage is un-
skilled labor, devoid of all discipline,
with the only thought that they are put
into the world to loaf, go to dog and
horse races, football matches and prize
fights.— Altera Merges (N.S.W.).
The Political ABC
Another convincing argument for edu-
cation in politics (B. 22/9/’43) is clearly
demonstrated by the overwhelming vote
—“the greatest individual vote ever given
to an Australian” gained by Mr. Amour.
It is quite obvious that some arbitrary, irre-
sponsible system of voting brought about
this result. In short, the alphabetical
system —the resort of fools and morons
who cannot or will not think, but who
choose the line of least resistance.
I don’t agree with “Bruce” (Q.) that
education in politics in this country or
any other democratic country is far
more important than the study of modern
or ancient history. A comparative study
is necessary in order to assess our own
dangers and political delusions. A survey
“Perhaps they're trying to attract our attention!"
of the past illuminates the future, and it
will be found that history is repeating
itself. A study of the history of France
both before and after the Revolution
with its gradual and inevitable intensifica-
tion of centralisation cannot but be a
timely warning to ourselves. — Herbert
Barker (Vic.).
Present and Future
In a leader (B. 29/9/’43) two phrases
stuck in my mind, “Australia is shooting
away a large percentage of her national
income” and “We are also mortgaging
Australia’s future.”
It is a fact all are agreed upon that
the Australian people are getting a higher
standard of living now, in spite of the
shooting, than they were in the early
1930’5. And we are not living on the
future. No one is eating the lambs my
ewes will drop next season, or the wheat
and vegetables of next year’s crop. And
if these things are found to be mortgaged
after the war, who are the mortgagees?
I believe the Australian people are now
sufficiently wide awake not to be duped
by another Sir Otto Niemeyer.
The soldier is being fed, clothed and
paid now, with a large percentage of
workers making munitions. Why not
give every discharged soldier the basic
wage? Then any contribution he makes to
society can be done voluntarily. Where
is the money to come from? Where is
it coming from now? —A. B. (N.S.W.).
R.A.A.F. Ranks
I was one of the original Man-power
officers, appointed in 1939. I resigned in
disgust early this year. During my official
tenure it was my sad lot to see young men,
accepted for the R.A.A.F., after a brief
incubation hatching out as glorified clerks
with the absurd (in their case) rank of
“pilot-officer.” Their knowledge of air-
craft was nil, and in many instances they
were assured, under God, of a safe re-
turn to civilian life.
This week I encountered three young
men wearing under their sergeants’ chev-
rons three service stripes. The first or
these had the D.F.M. ribbon, the second
had a mention and showed me a minia-
ture silver boot and caterpillar, the third
carried in his pocket a Maltese Cross.
It would not be surprising if these lads
tended to become bitter, disappointed and
disillusioned, and to feel it would have
paid much better in material things to
stay with the gaily-plumagcd birds
that cannot fly. Happily for us, they
treat the whole thing as a joke, but the
gross injustice is there all the same.
W. B. (Vic.).
Arbitration and Arbiters
“Dajarra” (B. 29/9/’43) on lawyers and
arbitration typifies the loose thinking that
is the curse of this country. There could
be no sense in arbitration if the arbiter
had had a training that would give him
a bias toward either of the parties be-
tween whom he has to arbitrate. The
very essence of arbitration is that the
arbiter's connection with the disputing
parties be impersonal and impartial.
The Arbitration Court does not exist
to watch over the interests of either em-
ployee or employer, nor does it exist
to dictate industrial, social or economic
polity. It exists to make a balance be-
tween two parties in disputes arising from
causes outside the realm of its function.
The statement of “Dajarra,” “Usually
the result” (of the arbiter’s deliberations)
“is an award that is not palatable to
either employees or management,” is
proof that the arbiter is usually effective
in his arbitration. Between two biased
parties a balance can only be struck if both
parties relinquish some of their claims.
The arbitrator forces this, and naturally
both sides can only be partially satisfied.
The one type of person best trained to
impartiality is the lawyer. He makes the
fairest umpire in disputes arising from
causes with which he is not expected to
concern himself. He has to sift evidence,
not reform industry, and therefore must
be able to evaluate evidence.
A crack centre-forward does not
necessarily make the best football umpire.
Personal experience and interest are too
liable to cause him to watch the play of
the opposing forwards and forget the
backs. —O. B. Server (Q.).
The Dead Heart
I liked “Agricola’s” article (B. 8/9/’43)
concerning the irrigation of the Dead
Heart of Australia. Unfortunately, the
average Australian pays little or no atten-
tion to our No. 1 peace-time problem,
and is therefore unaware of the danger-
ous threat to our cattle country.
To those who feel they would like to
learn more about the subject I recom-
mend lon L. Idriess’s The Great Boom-
erang, in which he puts forward a sug-
gestion by which water could be diverted
back to the Dead Heart. His scheme,
which appears to me to be quite prac-
ticable, should be studied by some group
of capable engineers with a view to com-
mencing work on it at the conclusion of
the war.
We read that there are 50,000 men in
the C.C.C. Why not turn them to this
scheme after the war, instead of disband-
ing them? If more man-power were
needed it could be made up of men dis-
charged from the armed forces. As
“Agricola” stated, the cost would prob-
ably be less than one month’s expendi-
ture on the war. — K. Bowd (Q.).
Price Regulation
The fixing of “ceiling prices” seem
so far to be defeating its object, which
is, presumably, to prevent the consumer
having to pay through the nose while
giving the producer a fair price for his
produce. Unfortunately, the fixed price
is the maximum the grower may expect,
and there is no minimum to protect him
should glut occur through his increased
production. Moreover, the middleman is
allowed to add his profit to the maxi-
mum price.
If the fixed price were the minimum
the grower must receive it would stimu-
late production, as the producer would
be assured a reasonable return for his
labor and expenditure. The present sys-
tem disheartens growers and drives more
and more from the land to more re-
munerative jobs and so decreases produc-
tion and increases the demand for food-
stuffs. — Bunyip (Q.).
Price of Fish
“Groper” (B. 22 /9 / ’43) opens up a
burning question. I know of scores of
places where fish are plentiful, but be-
cause fishermen are denied petrol such
places are unworked and scores of petrol-
driven boats lie idle and rotting, while
the fish grow fat.
Yet at any race meeting at Flemington,
Randwick and The Creek one can see
thousands of cars, 95 per cent, of which
are petrol-driven. And I have read that
there were upwards of 8000 at the Sydney
Cricket Ground on the occasion of a
professional football final at which bet-
ting was rampant.
Fish prices certainly are abnormal.
Common barracouta, formerly known as
“the poor man’s fish” and sold at 6d. a
yard, now commands Is. Bd. a pound, or
about 6s. 6d. a fish. Shark is 2s. a pound,
a mangrove mullet of 2|lb. brings 75.,
and I’m afraid to mention the price of
really choice fish.
I have questioned several coastal fisher-
men and they tell me they receive very
little above pre-war prices. The dealers
swear they art barely making a living.
So who gets the rake-off, and how? —
Charles V. Eyre (Vic.).
Vitamins and Calories
“P.A.’s” reference (B. 8/9/’43) to the
high-sounding jargon given out by alleged
food experts as to the balance needed in
our diet received a heavy jolt in Brisbane
three years ago. A research bureau was
experimenting with two forms of diet on
two rats. Great was the acclamation for
No. 1 diet, for the rat fed on it assumed
aldermanic proportions, while No. 2 diet
kept No. 2 rat as poor as a foot of fenc-
ing wire. Then No. 1 rat gave birth to
a litter of five little ones, and the investi-
gation just faded out.
I suggest to “P.A.” that if the experts
who chatter about vitamins and calories
could be sent to an old-time farmhouse
they would learn to eat proper food at
the proper time and in proper amounts.
If anxious to complete their knowledge
they could learn to work the body in a
proper manner and rest it in a proper
manner. In short, they could be proper
properly.—No Costs (Q.).
A.E.S.
Among the assets of this war is the
Army Education Service, which is bringing
within the reach of every ambitious man
the chance to satisfy his ambition with-
out the attendant worry of supporting a
family while he is studying. It has also
improved his mind and now, in the
School for Bushcraft, has made him self-
supporting and self-reliant and ready to
cope with a thousand and one dangers.
The average man depends for health,
food and comfort on civilisation and its
trappings. The average soldier today is
trained in a School for Bushcraft for
jungle warfare and its hazards. Men in
the army today learn how to build
smokeless fires, how to observe the flight
of birds to water, how to watch these
same birds and so get enemy movements,
how to find water-yielding roots and
edible plants, how to cook yams, how to
light a fire with a fire-stick and how to
guide themselves without a compass.
A super war demands super men and
super tactics, and the Army Education is
the foundation to both. —M. A. (W.A.).
Classics or Moderns?
Is A.B.C. fostering good music? The
query is prompted by the fact that Wes-
tralian regional listeners, at least, are
being given an inordinate number of
items termed “modern.” One could
search in vain for traces of melody in
these. An occasional melodious number
comes over the air, but its strains only
emphasise the queerness of the rest of
the pabulum. Personally, I much prefer
the old-fashioned music and songs of the
type so well sung by Gladys Moncrieff,
Peter Dawson and Harold Williams. —
Ah Gee (W.A.).


Victory
is in
our
Pockets
Whatever we do now is of small
account unless it hastens victory . . .
We must think of that whenever
we hold back a pound that might
go into war savings ... £1 mi ght
lessen by a minute the duration of
the war.
... £lOO might cut off an hour. That
is what we are saving... not simply
money but lives. Put every pound
you can into war loans. That is
what the M.L.C. is doing.
The business of life assurance is
protection, and we know of no
better way of protecting the
hundreds of thousands who entrust
the guardianship of their future
to us than by investing in Victory.
And Victory is in our pockets.
The Mutual Life and Citizens’
Assurance Company Limited
(INCORPORATED IN NEW SOUTH WALES.)
FOUNDED 1886.
Assets exceed £38,000,000
Payments to Policyholders exceed £47,000,000
The MIX.
