

GRAPE VINEGAR
The Bulletin
“The Bulletin,”
Vol. 64.-No. 3301
Wednesday, May 19, 1943
Price 6d.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.
CLEOPATRA'S NEEDLE.
on the Embankment overlook-
ing the Thames is Cleopatra’s Needle, an
obelisk older than even Ancient London. This
monument of rose-red Syene granite was first
set up at Heliopolis by Thothmes 111 about
1500 b.c. and later inscribed by Rameses II
in 1250 b.c. It was removed to Alexandria
some years before the birth of Christ, but
authorities are divided about the date, some
putting it at 14 b.c. and others at 25 b.c. Its
fellow is in Centennial Park, New York, and
Americans claim that this is the original Cleo-
patra's Needle. As these obelisks were usually
set up in pairs, it is possible that both claims
are correct.
The erection of these huge masses of stone
is one of the wonders of the past. Carvings
show pictures of obelisks being handled by
great gangs of men —presumably slaves; but,
even so, the mechanical knowledge necessary
to place these immense monuments on their
bases must have been of no mean order, while
the transportation of the finished product from
the quarries must have been a tremendous
task. Even with all the modern mechanical
knowledge then available, the work of trans-
porting the obelisk to England in 1877 was
sufficiently difficult, and it must be remem-
bered that the English and American obelisks
are little more than 200 tons, while several
taken to Rome are known to be over 350 tons.
That some obelisks were even heavier than this
is proved by the fact that an unfinished stone
discovered in a quarry is estimated to weigh
over 1100 tons.
The method used to carry Cleopatra s
Needle to London is of special interest. A
steel shell shaped to the obelisk was built, and
the loaded shell was then towed by a ship to
England. It had rather an adventurous voyage,
and was nearly lost in a storm in the Bay of
Biscay. Even after its erection the adventures
of Cleopatra’s Needle were not over, tor in
1917 a German bomb burst near by, and the
marks left by splinters may still be seen on
its base.


S®w Jo 'ffS)S'
This Book FREE to YOU!
STOTT’S CORRESPONDENCE COLLEGE,
100 Russell Street, Melbourne.
CUT HERE AND MAIL
Please send, without obligation, your New Free
Booklet explaining how to Write tor Profit, as
advertised in the Sydney “Bulletin."
My Name
My Address
S.B. 243
AGE
The Red Page
MORRISON ON JAPAN .
If lan Morrison, who is London
“Times” war correspondent in Austral' !,
is saying in his paper the things he sun
in This War Against Japan (Angus and
Robertson) —and that seems highly prob-
able—he is doing Australia a great ser-
vice. While some of the Australian dailies
seem more interested in the Second Front
than in the tremendous and immediate
menace of Japan, this representative of
an English newspaper writes:
Much thought is being expended in Eng-
land on the problems that will confront us
in Europe after the war. Less is being
expended on the problems, equally grave,
perhaps even more complicated, that will
confront us in Asia.
For people in England the European
facet of the world struggle looms largest
on their horizon. They are directly threat-
ened by Nazi Germany. Japan is still only
a distant and indirect threat. But, if Eng-
land is still preoccupied primarily with
Germany, some of her Allies are pre-
occupied primarily with Japan, and others
divide their preoccupation equally between
Germany and Japan. Over 430,000,000
Chinese think of Japan as the prime
menace. So do 8,000,000 Australians and
New Zealanders.
On the course of the war against Japan
hangs the fate of 350,000,000 Indians,
70,000,000 Malaysians, 14,000,000 Bur-
mese. Our Allies, the Americans, are
threatened by Germany on one flank and
by Japan on the other. So are our Allies
the Russians, despite the temporary truce
which exists on their eastern flank.
Believing that —though the fighting will
be long and hard, and though Japan is
certainly “not an Italy” likely to collapse
when Germany is defeated—Japan will
eventually be brought to submission by
Allied supremacy in the air, Morrison’s
chief purpose in This War Against Japan
is to set people thinking about the mani-
fold problems that will arise in the Paci-
fic after the war. Since it will be of little
comfort to Australia and New Zealand
to know that there’s a “New Order” in
Europe if the Pacific is still in turmoil,
and since there will be no “New Order”
here—except a very grim one —while the
problems he discusses remain unsettled,
Morrison’s subject is of the greatest pos-
sible importance to this country. His
book, however, can be regarded as no
more than an introduction to its great
theme. It has none of the historical value
and little of the commanding factual in-
terest of his Malayan Postscript —which
was by far the best commentary on that
campaign this Page has yet seen.
That the chief value of This War
Against Japan is as a stimulus to thought
is to some extent inevitable. There are
so many imponderables in the Pacific.
What will Russia do, for instance, dur-
ing the war and after? Will there be a
strong and united China, friendly to the
white race and capable of restraining any
renewal of Japanese aggression? What
will be American policy after the war?
To these, and a dozen similar questions,
all of which would have to be answered
before the planning of “New Orders” in
the Pacific can come out of the clouds,
there are no answers.
With his intimate knowledge of China,
Japan, Burma and Malaya, Morrison
could have written perhaps a more valu-
able book by concentrating on problems
rather than on his admittedly “lofty”
solution —World Federation. Everyone
knows the ideal: but not everyone knows
all the specific difficulties in the way of
that ideal, and they are only outlined in
the brief survey of This War Against
Japan. Maybe, if newspaper work and
censorship will let him, Morrison will set
down the problems of the Pacific in more
detail in another book.
One of the most interesting sections of
This War Against Japan is Morrison’s
analysis of the Japanese “national char-
acter.” As a warning against underrating
the enemy it is of great value. But—
purely as a matter of literary criticism—
the present commentator can’t agree with
him when, trying to counter the loose
impression that “we are confronted with
an adversary who has no cultural heri-
vh' no record of past artistic
acii ;nt,” he says:
~se culture has been neither less nor
c,.i in stature than that of a country
like i lgland. It has merely been different
in kind.
bond .mentally, art never differs in kind ;
hf ireek play differs in form from the
i. .ibethan play, Beethoven’s music
differs vastly from both, but one can
4• te legitimately compare Euripides,
Shakspeare and Beethoven as artists.
Morrison himself, elsewhere in his book,
quotes Lowes Dickinson on the Japanese
classical drama —“It is the drama of
ancient Greece, but without Sophocles,
without Euripides, and without Aischy-
lus.” Has there been a Japanese Shak-
speare, a Wordsworth, a Tennyson? Are
not the “butterfly” poems, though often
charming, ineffably minor and essentially
primitive beside the great, constructive
masterpieces of the Greeks and of
European civilisation?
It’s a small point in Morrison’s book,
only a passing phrase. But a nation’s
art is the measure of its mind and of its
spirit, and for the author to assert that
Japanese culture is “not less in stature”
than English is to contradict his other
and more considered opinion that, behind
its mask of civilisation, the Japanese soul
is still medieval.
Out-of-the-way Novel .
Reading The Green Orb (Faber), a
novel by Chris Massie, is like entering a
world never seen before except —con-
fusedly—in dreams. Accomplished in
style, the novel is strikingly new in
method and almost startlingly new in
theme —or, rather, in its approach to the
theme of lunacy. Reading partly like a
doctor’s case-book, partly like a highly
dramatic novel and partly like a thriller,
it’s a book which would have delighted
Edgar Allan Poe.
Massie plays a trick on the reader. He
tells an exciting story in which it
appears that a man, newly released from
a mental home, stumbles into a domestic
drama just before the wife shoots the
husband. He decides to help the wife
evade the police, and, after a long night
during which he tells the story of his life
and she hers, goes to the police station
to “confess” the murder and take the
blame of it on his own shoulders: know-
ing that in any case his insanity will
return some day, he does not mind going
back to confinement, and, his medical
history being what it is, he has no doubt
that the police will readily believe he is
the killer.
And at that point, about two-thirds of
the way through the novel, one suddenly
finds that none of the story has really
taken place at all. The whole thing is a
fantasy in the mind of the madman, who
is still in his asylum.
Though that is a most ingenious piece
of trick-writing, the novel would leave
one dissatisfied if it ended there. But it
doesn’t end. The madman dies and two
specialists discuss his case. Massie has
obviously studied Freud, Jung and the
rest of the psycho-analysts, and the case-
history, tracing the schizophrenic’s career
back into early manhood and childhood,
is as convincing as it is interesting. There
has been, it transpires, a great deal of
highly significant fact mingled with the
fantasies he told to the doctor’s wife
(who wasn’t there) during that wild night
of blackout, air-raid, murder and self-
confession (which never took place). The
book is sombre in tone, but Massie has
carefully avoided horrors.
"We of the A.I.F."
There are two ways of looking at any
book of poems by a soldier, such as
Maurice Clough’s We of the A.I.F.
(Dymock’s Book Arcade, Ltd.). It may
be considered as soldier-verse, a special
category; or it may be criticised in the
ordinary way as poetry.
Even if the reviewer’s chief concern is
the maintaining of literary standards,
there is considerable justification for
adopting the first viewpoint. The Old
Bush Songs “Banjo” Paterson edited years
ago were technically rough ; but as speci-
mens of folk poetry and as the first
ripples of that tide of Australian balladry
which reached its full flood in Pater-
son’s own verses, they were of literary
interest and national importance. They
had, moreover, the native vigor, the
genuineness, the “dinkumness” that give
to all folk poetry a measure of literary
merit. Soldier verses make much the
same appeal. Australia speaks in them.
Affirming, making comprehensible,
giving shape to a new way of life, they
are as important to the soldiers as the
bush songs were to the pioneers who
sang them. Even if Clough’s verses were
not as good as they are, there’d be a wide
audience among soldiers for a man who
can write a poem about peeling spuds:
The mountains of potatoes I have peeled—
The world would seem a huge potato field!
A wide audience for memories of first
days in the army:
Remember Cowra? . . . Showground? . . .
Ingleburn?
Then how things took a sudden northern turn —
Remember “Chinatown”? . . . The pay we lost
At “Ins and Outs,” and how the dice was
tossed?
Retrieving (when you could!) your lost estate
By dining at the “Darwin” with your mate!
Remember weeks and months in monsoon
rains?
Transports and trucks and military trains;
Digging in ditches, pioneering roads,
Clearing the native timber, loads on load^'
Cold —wet —and woozy! Dirty with hot sweat!
How you remember filings you can’t forget!
A wide audience for impressions of
“On Board the Queen Mary,” “Christ-
mas in Bethlehem,” “Waters of Leba-
non,” “Snow in Syria” and “Mohammed
Ali Mosque Cairo.” And among the
books of soldier verse that have so far
appeared, Clough’s is remarkable for the
completeness of its picture of Australians
at war: he describes nearly all aspects
of army life, and —though Greece and
Crete apparently weren’t on his unit’s
itinerary and no verses on New Guinea
appear in this book —he has a good gen-
eral survey of most of the places where
Australians have fought. For its topical
interest and national value simply as a
collection of soldier-verse, his book
should sell as widely among the A.I.F.
and the public as Tip Kelaher’s The
Digger Hat is reported to have done.
But We of the A.I.F. can also stand
up sturdily to strictly literary criticism.
Although there are glaring technical blem-
ishes from which no single poem is free,
Clough has a gift for direct, powerful
expression, apd there are passages of sur-
prisingly lovely poetry. Echoes from the
standard poets, clumsy inversions and,
above all, an inability to free his speech
from the cliches of the guidebook are his
faults. But, despite the echoes, there is
a fine clarity of expression in such lines
as:
To think long thoughts of all I’ve witnessed
when
As one of a great company of men
I have pressed on where domes and temples lie
And fields and vineyards open to the sky ;
And:
The laughing, cursing, gallant mob
That made Tobruk their special job—
Men who in moments of reverse
Contrive to shake the universe!
A line such as “An architectural gem
without a fault” —straight from the guide-
book —mars a poem about a mosque;
but it cannot destroy the true poetry of
the remaining lines:
It hears the prayers of all the faithful met:
The mumbling and the whispering and the
sighs;
The shrouded figures and the lowered eyes—
Never a sound so slight but it can hear
Beneath its dome, where silence reigns so clear
Even one’s neighbor’s thoughts seem full of
sound
And compass one with meaning, round and
round.
A poet who really knew his trade
wouldn’t make the inversion “recording
judgments trite” these days ; but “Snow
in Syria,” in which that fault occurs, has
lines of great beauty:
The crystal splendor of the Syrian night
Burns like a sheer blue flame against my sight.
Ching-ching-a-ling . . . The very wind has bells
That tinkle in the frost that lifts and swells
In crisp prismatic notes against my ear
From the white trees that glisten still and clear.
I kick my toes into a mound of white,
And banked-up snowflakes in a glittering flight
Float like confetti in a veil of mist
Tinged by the moon to palest amethyst.
I smell the mystery of grasses red,
Of frozen hedges where the snow is shed,
Transfiguring the road with such bright fire
It seems a mirage of my heart’s desire
Set into motion, whirl on silver whirl,
Like the soft skirts of some Circassian girl.
A grand-nephew of Arthur Hugh
Clough, Maurice Clough has poetry in
his blood. It’s hard to say from these
verses whether he is essentially a “seri-
ous” poet or a popular rhymer and bal-
ladist. Blending his two talents, he might
write good narrative verse. But before
he can do that he will have to shed his
faults. The A.I.F. has some good “seri-
ous” poets: it badly needs a narrative
or ballad writer who, as Paterson and
Dennis were, is at once a folk-poet and
an accomplished technician.
SUNDRY SHOWS.
A performance of remarkable charm
and understanding by Gwenda Wilson in
the title role of “Janie” does much to
atone for the fundamental slightness of
Sydney Minerva’s latest U.S. comedy.
Under its smoke-screen of topicality—
it’s about a high-school girl who falls in
love with a soldier —the play presents the
immemorial problems of adolescence in
a spirit of light-hearted tolerance ; and,
the troubles of a girl of sixteen, lightly
treated, hardly being of sufficient weight
to command adult attention for a full
three acts, the piece would fall pretty fiat
if it weren’t for the fact that Miss Wilson
makes Janie amusing, appealing, interest-
ing and alive as an individual. Whether
she is coping with paternal wrath, falling
for her soldier or suffering pangs of
conscience for her former boy friend
(entertainingly played by A 1 Thomas), she
is always convincing. Marshall Crosby,
Yvonne Banvard, Hal Thompson, Kitty
Bluett (too grotesque a schoolgirl, per-
haps, but she gets her laughs), Betty
McDowell, Muriel Steinbeck, Dick Ran-
dolph, Frank Brooks, Wayne Froman
and Leslie Victor are a capable cast, and
Pat Crocker gives an amusing caricature
of the übiquitous repulsive small sister.
At the talkies:
“S.W.K.”: When Edgar Rice Burroughs
created Tarzan of the Apes he plopped a very
small literary stone into a very large literary
lake; thanks to the invention of celluloid, the
ripples which in pre-celluloid times would have
had a struggle to reach the shore now break
upon it in almost thunderous waves to an
obbligato of penetrating ululations from Johnny
Weismuller. Johnny’s histrionic ability is about
equal to that of a middle-aged solicitor’s clerk,
but he thumps his magnificent chest magnifi-
cently, and he certainly can swim. In “Tarzan's
New York Adventure” (Sydney G.U. Theatres)
he abandons the loincloth for a smart double-
breaster and knife-edged creases, and swings
from skyscraper to skyscraper among the
gorges and canyons of Broadway and Forty-
fifth-street in spectacular, if rather boneheaded,
attempts to rescue his small son from a das-
tardly kidnapper. After his successful foray he
returns to the tangled undergrowth and tests
the synthetic studio lawyer-vines in prepara-
tion for further adventures which no genuinely
progressive ape can afford to miss.
Water-colors by Robert Campbell are
shown at Sydney Macquarie Galleries.
Campbell has devoted himself to the more
sombre aspects of the Tasmanian land-
scape. He is proficient in the use of his
medium, and is especially successful with
skies, but neglects foregrounds, which he
treats with disdain. There is plenty of
color in the Tasmanian scene, most of
the charm of which these paintings evade.
Desiderius Orban, who stands high
among Hungarian painters, and who in
recent years has served in the Australian
Army, has a show of pastels and oils at
the Notanda Gallery, Sydney. He
handles colors and form very skilfully,
and his compositions are always pleasant.
His Czechoslovakian and Hungarian
impressions, in pastel, breathe gaiety and
happiness. His Australian pictures are
subdued and sad.
“C. 8.”: The first canvas that strikes
the eye at Septimus Power’s exhibition
at Melbourne Athenaeum is a huge square
one entitled “Melbourne (1940),” priced
at 500 guineas. Swanston-street is
depicted closed at one end by the distant
bulk of the Shrine of Remembrance and
at the other by four policemen on horses
edging a vast crowd back from a mili-
tary procession, and lined on each side
with massive buildings. It is one of those
works that only a painter with the
endurance of Mr. Power would tackle.
Its artistic possibilities would be exhausted
after the first few brush strokes. After
that it would be merely a matter of
putting in an enormity of detail that a
camera might see but which could not
possibly come into an artist’s first impres-
sion. The rest of the show contains the
customary supply of horseflesh, compe-
tent but expected. It would be interest-
ing if one of these days Mr. Power did
the unexpected and came out with a show
of human nudes instead of equine.
“F.S.”: The ship of the Victorian
Artists’ Society has been stuck on the
slips for almost as far back as Melbourne
can remember. It gave a faint quiver
when the “modernists” covered the walls
with pneumatic nudes and Noah’s Ark
houses; but the wild men departed, and
the good ship is still on the slips with its
flag flying and its crew of able, if some-
what aged, seamen and young appren-
tices, who see Nature exactly in the same
way, manning the rigging and scanning
the horizon for a breeze while the planks
begin to open and the weevils get into the
biscuits. John Heath’s “Rocky Beach, Tor-
quay,” “The Open Road” of B. Fiven and
a few other items reveal some freshness
of observation at the latest autumn
show. President James Quinn weighs
in with a portrait of Dr. Bear-
hamn which is at least a good likeness ;
Rupert Bunny has resurrected one of his
large illustrations of Paris society long
before the Nazi occupation ; E. Buck-
master has a self-portrait which is more
in the nature of an encyclopaedia of facts
than a picture; and W. Rowbotham has
a problem picture which shows a crowd
of people rushing somewhere, the only
article of clothing amongst them being
a green bag carried by one of the rushers
—evidently a warning to Mr. Dedman.
Tom Carter has an interesting souvenir
of Bali, with its dancers and temples, and
Corporal Peter Cox sends two studies of
the remarkable rock temples at Petra in
the Middle East. “The Old City” of E. R.
Jones is the late Blamire Young reincar-
nated.


ADVERTISING"
FRUTH
uqRDERns
To those who are unable to call on
us, we would offer the Self-measure-
ment Form. When you order this
way you are assured of individual
service as satisfactory as a personal
visit to this store. Write for your
Self-measurement Form.
m
MILITARY OFFICERS"
GREATCOAT
Ready to Wear
Double-breasted. Lancer fronts,
British Army pattern, deep turn-
back cuffs. 240 z. proofed Great-
coating. Price £6/3/6
m
Officers' Shoes, made from grained,
imported Zebu in Tan and Black.
Extra stout genuine welted soles. Full
and half sizes. Price 49/6
12 coupons.
MILITARY
OFFICERS'
UNIFORMS
mmmm
Tunic and slacks, correct
in detail and tailored in
our best possible manner.
No extras to pay for. Any
additional style features.
Price £7/19/8
All uniforms coupon free.
• Men’s Department—Ground Floor, George Street.
mmm


THE "MAD MILE"
By A. C. HEADLEY.
FROM the time when he
came into the Army
there was- the talk about
the “mad mile.” Some-
where beyond the “mad mile”
was the war, so far away as
not to be very important; the things that
were important now were today and to-
morrow and the thought of the “mad
mile.”
It had been almost three months now.
He could remember acutely those early
days in the bullring and the times when
he had felt that he was going to crack up.
After spending so many years in an office
a man wasn’t up to the mark when it came
to standing long hours in the sun. All
the time he was conscious of the weight
of his body pressing down on his legs.
There was someone out front shouting
orders, and he carried them out as
smartly as was possible, and all the time
he was tired and the sweat was rolling
down his face. He wondered whether
the other boys were feeling the same, but
they were younger and tougher and
weren’t afraid of things. They wanted
to be soldiers, and he hadn’t ever wanted
to be a soldier.
Not then, but later, he started to think
about how he had dodged fights when
he was a kid. How he’d walk for miles
out of his way to avoid someone who
had it in for him. He was a coward;
he knew it, but they were trying to make
a soldier out of him. Cowards didn’t
make soldiers ; cowards didn’t want to
be soldiers. But they were making him
one.
He had felt that no part of the Army
could be tougher than those first few
weeks. As long as he got past them he
felt tha* he’d be right, but that was before
he was issued with his rifle.
There were other chaps in the camp
who told him it would be worse when
he got his rifle. He didn’t believe them
then, because he felt that guns were
always interesting. There were things
about it to discover, about the bolt and
the magazine. A rifle was interesting all
right until he found that it had to be kept
scrupulously clean; it was interesting
until he carried it around on his shoulder
all day and felt the weight of it growing.
Every time he sloped arms he was almost
afraid to let it drop on the part of his
shoulder sore from the constant sloping.
There was never any time then except
for cleaning the rifle and getting on
parade. In the first few days he was late.
That meant a defaulters’ parade, and on
“defaulters’ ” the rifle was worse than
ever because the others had finished for
the day, while he kept on dropping
the rifle against the soreness of his shoul-
der. Automatically he listened, and auto-
matically he sloped, ordered and presented
arms, whichever one the kid sergeant out
front wanted. The heat hadn’t gone from
the day and the sweat ran into his eyes,
making them smart; his clothes were wet
from the perspiration, and the seam of
his giggle pants was catching and chaf-
ing between his legs.
That was when he felt really sore about
being in the Army. He hadn’t wanted
to be part of it. He didn’t want to fight.
He was a coward; he knew it, and they
were trying to teach him to kill and be
killed.
AND then the talk about the “mad
mile.” The training was
far enough ahead now to bring the mad
mile” almost within touching distance.
Talk of it was endless. Fellows who had
been through it would grin and say how
tough it was.
In a queer little way he began to be
frightened of the “mad mile.” It was
something he wanted to put off for as
long as possible. For one thing there
was the barbed wire and the gelignite.
That worried him. Sometimes there were
accidents. Someone told him about one
of the boys who had actually been
blinded by the “jelly”—“lt went up in his
face and left it like a piece of raspberry
jam.”
When the others were around he was
with them in making a joke of the “mad
mile.” That was the only time he didn t
feel scared of it. When he was alone
he would think of the blindness and the
soft mass of his face, and at night he
would lie awake thinking of his fear.
Till now it had been fear in the small
places—fear of getting a hiding at school,
fear of standing near drunks in a pub, of
even the remotest possibility of physical
injury.
The curious thing was that his fear
had never been discovered. It was a
secret, something that was known only
to himself. There were plenty of things
that could conceal fear. Talk was one of
them. You talked and, by the things
you said, people got the impression that
you weren’t frightened of anything. But
this was different; he couldn’t talk his
way past the “mad mile.” Some way
or other he had to get through it, run with
his bayonet thrust out in front of him,
not knowing from where the next burst
of “jelly” was going to come. He felt
that as soon as the explosions started
he would turn and run the other way,
driven by the mind picture of a face
that was like a piece of raspberry jam.
He began to wonder if any of the
others felt the way he did. He tried to
think of the thousands of others who
had been through it with nothing hap-
pening to them. But the raspberry jam
kept thrusting itself into his mind.
AND then he was lying there waiting
for the race over the “mad mile.” His
mouth was dry and there was a bitter
taste when he swallowed. He was con-
scious of an emptiness in his stomach,
and the rest of his body seemed to be
beating like a pulse. His hands were
wet and grimy from dust and sweat. The
sky was hot and the earth was hot.
Ahead of hyn the heat chopped corru-
gated patterns in front of his eyes.
Things wavered before them until he
brought them back to the focus of some-
thing near. Next to him, lying on the
ground like himself, were the rest of the,
boys. They were all waiting, and out
ahead of them stretched the “mad mile.”
It wasn’t a mile really. It wasn’t even
half a mile, and with the edges of his
mind that were still capable of concen-
tration he wondered who had first called
it the “mad mile.” But they were
thoughts that quickly spun off the whirl-
ing wheel of his mind. The wheel itself
remained, uncertain and faintly dizzying
him with the thing that was ahead. Rolls
of barbed wire stretched across the
course. That was one thing to go
through, but it was nothing compared
with his dread of the other things. There
were the dummies to be bayoneted and
he knew about the explosive charges that
could be wired to each. A touch of a
bayonet and the charge was flung up in
your face. There were the trip wires
that threw you to the ground when you
were charging ahead. Someone could
be racing behind him and a trip could
send a bayonet stabbing into his back.
He couldn’t stop himself from thinking
those things.
Then suddenly they were moving be-
hind the sergeant. Somehow there was
no breath in his body, and before they
had covered half a dozen yards he was
panting. One thought was magnified in
his mind, a question. Where were they?
When was the jelly going to throw up
the ground beneath his feet? When were
the clods of earth to be hurled blasting
into his face?
They were running hard now towards
the rolled stretch of barbed wire. The
“jelly” must be here somewhere. His
feet were pounding on but he was afraid
with each foot that touched the ground.
Where was the trip wire that would send
him tumbling? His eyes burned as he
tried to pick it out from the yellow earth.
Ahead, the sergeant signalled with his
arm and they dropped to the ground,
firing blanks at the target somewhere
ahead. He could feel his heart trying
to break through his chest. Then sud-
denly they were up again. The barbed
wire was in front of them. Someone trod
it down ahead of him and he followed
through, and then the air was full of
dust and noise. There was dust in his
mouth and the feel of the explosion stag-
gered him. He was moving through the
great column of dust, and stones were
smacking down on his tin hat.
Ahead of them stood the dummies, and,
with the sight of them, of a sudden the
fear was gone, and what remained was a
wild exhilaration. Ahead was the enemy,
and there was a bayonet glinting in the
sun in his hands. Power thrust itself at
him. Once more the crash of bursting
“jelly” smashed on his ears. The ground
lifted beneath his feet and he was hidden
in the dust from the explosion, bfft he
plunged through, and from a distance
he could hear himself swearing. It was
strange. It wasn’t his voice. It didn’t
sound like him ...
He thrust and spitted the dummy on
his bayonet, and with the thrust came
the explosion which seared back at his
face. It was as though his breath was
pushed back into his body, but it came
puffing back and he hurled himself for-
ward and plunged to the ground under
the signal from the sergeant.
There was a ditch ahead of them, and
“jelly” threw the earth up as they reached
it. But it didn’t worry him now. Ex-
citement had possession of him. This
was what it was like; this was war.
From his clasp on the rifle power was
still surging through him. There was
no room now for the thought of the
hurt that might come to him.
It was then that the trip wire got him
and threw him solidly to the ground. He
didn’t know it had happened. He was
scrambling to his feet when the jelly
blasted almost in his face. With an in-
voluntary movement he reached up and
felt the dampness of the blood, but even
this didn’t matter any more ; the only
the end of the “mad mile.”
£ars j arred
sound of another explosion
behind him. Dust swirled
down and caught in his panting throat.
The taste of dry earth was in his mouth,
and then he was plunging his bayonet
into the unresisting dummy.
AT the end of the “mile” they gathered
around him talking about his face.
He fingered it and saw the blood on his
hands, but it was nothing. The wild
exultation was still with him. He hadn’t
been afraid! With a rifle in his hand it
made the difference. Suddenly he was
glad he was a soldier.
MOCKERY
By D. R. HALL.
WE didn’t have to work that Satur-
day afternoon, and Mac and I,
dressed for the first time in a
week in clothes that were not
sticky and did not stink, were leaning
over the front gate of the place we
boarded at. It was pretty good to be
warm and comfortable, to have nothing
to do and plenty of time to do it in.
We’d been busy at the cellars all the
week. It was worse than most vintages
because we were short-handed, and there
had been overtime nearly every night.
FRIDAY had been a cow of a day.
We started work as usual at quarter-
past seven. There was a real old gully-
wind roaring down from the frosty hills,
and it swept right through the long con-
crete aisles of the fermenting house. We
had to take off three tanks of red during
the morning. That meant getting the
pumps rigged, the pipelines down, tubs
and strainers placed and the cages in all
the trucks first thing.
We worked at the run in our rubber
kneeboots on the slippery cement floor
because we wanted some of the trucks
for when the grapes would start to come
in a bit before nine. Each fermenting vat
is a rectangular tank of smoothly para-
fined cement, open at the top and holding
about fifteen hundred gallons. W e h at *
the dark purple, soupy wine running off
into the tubs within ten minutes. These
tanks were all sweet red, still fermenting,
of course. As soon as they ran out we
hopped from the icy wind into the heat
of the tanks. Mac and I took one each
and old Jack, the boiler man, started on
the third because we were rushed.
We landed knee-deep in the hot, stiff
marc, the purple-black cake of skins and
seeds left behind as the wine drained,
and started to sling it up over the wall
of the tank into the waiting trucks, using
a great wide cow of a stable fork for
the drier top stuff and a shovel that
held a couple of hundredweight for the
wetter. It was hot in the tanks, and there
was a lot of gas. Carbon dioxide is
heavy and it hangs low. We couldn't
see it, of course, but every time we
stooped for a forkful we felt our heads
dive into the hot, stifling gas.
The gas didn’t make the heavy throw-
ing any better. We were chucking up a
big load every time, as fast as we could
send it. It was hot, and we needed all
our wind, but, instead of air, most of the
time we were gulping in that warm, stif-
ling gas. It made the head light and set
the heart hammering.
At last we got down to the draining
boards and passed them over the wall to
be washed. Then we cleared up the bot-
tom of the tank, and as soon as the last
shovelful went up someone tossed the
hose over, sending icy water down our
sweating necks. Then with hose and
broom and brush we scrubbed the sticki-
ness and tartar off the walls and floor:
scrubbed till our forearms ached unbear-
ably and our backs kinked. Then we
sluiced out till everything was clean,
sprayed with disinfectant and, because
the tank was wanted immediately, sluiced
out again.
By that time some of the trucks had
been pressed and were ready to be
emptied. They were wooden trays, well
parafined, on flanged wheels, with a strong
circular cage of iron-bound timber to
take the marc. There was a central chim-
ney to take off air and juice. The press
pushed heavy wooden discs up through
the bottom of the tray, lifting and press-
ing everything in the cage. When we
got the trucks the marc had had between
two and three thousand pounds of pres-
sure. We had to stand in the trucks with
just enough room to get the fork between
the sides and the chimney, and quarry
out that infernal seedcake. The east wind
whistled tunes through our sweating ribs.
The trucks had to be emptied as fast
as possible, and then, as we were tak-
ing white grapes that morning, they had
to be scrubbed. We got inside with a
running hose and scrubbed with a brush
and scraped with a knife till the last skin
and seed was gone, then we scrubbed
some more and sprayed with a disinfec-
tant and decoloriser and squirted with a
hose until all was clean. By that time
we were standing wet through in the east
wind. We could hear the rumble of the
crusher starting up and the dull crashes
as forkfuls of grapes cascaded on to the
beaters: the whites were in—three loads
of Pedros off the weighbridge already—
and we had to get a move on.
The white grapes —juice, seeds and
skins together—slopped like pale-green
porridge from the thudding pipes into
the trucks, where the stalks were kneaded
into the mass by hand. As each truck
filled it was heaved along to the press
and squeezed up to 5000 pounds. Then
one of us ran it down the line and started
worrying out the stubborn mass of com-
pressed stalks and skins, and throwing
the chunks into the still tanks. We took
turns at having smoke-oh while watching
the press.
BY afternoon the whole fermenting-
house was wet and the floors were
evenly covered with a treacherous slime
of grape-juice, skins, seeds and water.
A stranger couldn’t walk there. We ran.
We knocked off from six till seven for
tea and then came back to a weird cellar
where the yellow electric light made the
shadows in the wet alleys and winding
passages black and gloomy. Even the
thud of the pumps and the slip-slap of
belting became mysterious and half-
sinister. Our clothes were still wet and
stiff as leather with stickiness, and they
stank sourly.
In the bitter coldness of the autumn
night we took off some more hot, gassy
vats. Then, towards nine o’clock, we
started to wash up. Everything had to
be washed up, from the boots we wore
to the floors we walked on —everything;
trucks, pipes, pumps, sieves, boards,
buckets, dozens of them, had to be
scrubbed and disinfected. By ten, when
we knocked off, it was as if a man had
never been anything but wet and unwash-
ably sticky, as if there was nothing in
the world but bone-weariness and bone-
ache, as if we had never worn sweet-
smelling clothes.
BUT Saturday was all right. We
knocked off at two o’clock. Then
Mac and I stewed in the hottest baths
we could get and put on our softest,
cleanest clobber, and leaned over the gate
and soaked in the sunshine.
The usual Saturday afternoon trickle
of people was coming along the road. It
made us feel pretty good when, blokes
looked at us. Of course, they didn t
know what the cellars are really like,
but our gang had a bit of a reputation as
real toilers and it made you feel sort of
contented that people knew you did your
bit of yacca.
A little old bloke came dodging up
the street. We saw him sidle up to a
gate and then sort of shy off to another.
After a while he worked over to us.
He came in sideways, and his hand and
his eyes darted up to us together. Mac
took the pamphlet and the coot shied
off like a rabbit.
Then Mac swore: “Hell,” he said,
“look at this, will y’?” .
Across the top of the pamphlet jn big
letters was “Wine Is a Mocker and,
underneath, “How many loaves or bread
are today being sacrificed to this vain
god of sensuous Vice and soft
this insatiate devourer of the Health an
Wealth of the nation—the purple Blood
of the Grape?”
I swore too.


The Bulletin
Vol. 64.— N0. 3301.
Wednesday, May 19, 1943.
THE ALEXANDER TALLY.
"Hundred and fifty thousand, hundred and fifty thousand and one, two, three, four, five—why, it’s Arnim! How’s tricks, Arnim? Hundred and
fifty thousand and six”


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper
“Australia for the White Man”
Directors:
H. K. Prior J. E. Webb
P. H. Prior David Adams
HEAD OFFICE: 252 George Street, Sydney;
Box 2521 BB; ’Phone 87971.
Victoria: Newspaper House, 247-249 Collins
Street, Melbourne.
Queensland: 239 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
Westralia : 33 Barrack Street, Perth.
New Zealand : Nathan’s Buildings (opp.
G.P.0.), Wellington.
London: 1 Hare Place, 47 Fleet Street,
London, E.C.4.
UP FROM THE ABYSS.
While the bells are ringing and the flags
flying for the Allied success in North
Africa a little comparative measuring
might also be in order. Where the Allied
side has arrived at is easy to see. It is
a point somewhere on the road to ulti-
mate victory. On the European end of
the war, at all events, the tide has turned.
The initiative has been wrested from the
Axis. The Allied side is pressing the
offensive, with the Axis doing the guess-
ing as to when and where next.
Hitler’s original conception of total
blitzkrieg of terror, waged without pity
or scruple on civilian men, women and
children and armed defenders alike, broke
on the bulwark of Britain. The bombing
and machine-gunning ’plane was the main
weapon of it, and this has backfired in a
way its originators never for a moment
imagined. The Royal Air Force is
causing widespread ruin and destruction
in cities that Goring boasted would never
be bombed. The same once-despised
force, which in the Battle of Britain
saved the whole free world from Axis
enslavement, every day gets nearer to air
supremacy. With the United States Air
Force it is conquering the skies over
Western Europe and the Mediterranean.
The Allied fighting forces on land have
shown both their quality and increasing
strength, over the last six months espe-
cially. These have been a bitter six
months for the Axis in and near Europe.
They have seen one of the Axis partners
lose the last remnant of its African
empire— torn to tatters, as Mr. Churchill
predicted. Axis forces have been smashed
and driven back from where their spear-
point threatened the heart of Russia at
Stalingrad. They have been belted back,
with destruction raining on them all the
way, from the gates of Alexandria (open-
ing through to the Suez Canal and India
and a linking up with the Pacific war part-
ner) to the tip of the Cape Bon peninsula
until not a single armed Axis soldier is
left in Africa.
Several times so far the Allied side has
been perilously close to defeat. No won-
der that a victory such as that in North
Africa gives fresh heart. Before this is
all over it will be dwarfed by other, vaster
happenings. For the present it stands
paramount —a great victory presaging
final victory; a signpost on the road up
from a now almost incredible abyss to
a prospect that only faith could visualise
a mere six months ago.
A first span to be measured is that it
has taken not six months but three and
a half years to reach this present point.
(Measurement of the spans ahead—(l)
from here to victory in Europe ; (2) from
here to a similar position in regard to
Japan ; (3) from here to ultimate victory
over Japan—can be left to the always
obliging and invariably inept prophets.)
The Allied side was at the dead bottom
of the abyss— not six months ago, or after
Dunkirk, or when bombing destruction
was heaping London and Coventry and
Southampton and Bath and Liverpool in
ruins, or when the Japs had finished with
Pearl Harbor, or when Singapore had
fallen. The lowest depth—in Britain, in
America and in the British Empire, in-
cluding Australia—was reached some
years before the war started.
Two months after Hitler struck the
U.S. Adjutant-General’s Office gave out
figures of the fighting strength of some of
the countries then or later involved. Ger-
many’s land-and-air strength was given
as 7,188,000; Russia’s, 7,150,000; Italy’s,
7.633,000. These figures for Germany and
Russia have since been held to have been,
if anything, an underestimate. Figures
for Japan (perhaps not wholly reliable)
were: Land strength, 6,271,000; air
strength, inclusive in the total, 53,000. The
British Empire’s land-and-air strength in
1939 stood at the well-nigh incredible
total of only 1,699,700—1,130,000 of
them in Britain.
The U.S.A- —down at the bottom of
the abyss which had been amazingly mis-
taken for a shining summit opening on a
vista of peace everlasting—had a total
Army strength of 504,150, made up of
an active Army of 187,886 and 316,264
trained reserves —and this total included
Uncle Sam’s Air Force, 28,256. The
U.S. Navy totalled 176,341, including
55,734 reserves. How far Uncle Sam was
down the abyss can be measured from the
present aim of mustering 2,000,000 air-
pnen, 2,000,000 sailors and 7,000,000
soldiers. But even after having had a
year’s grace in which to start recovering
and get geared, Uncle Sam was seriously
endangered after Pearl Harbor, if the
Japs had known it.
Thanks to the stout hearts that
fought the rearguard action at Dun-
kirk, to the men in small boats
who brought off the stirring Dun-
kirk rescue, to the grand fellows who
knocked the Luftwaffe out of England’s
skies in the Battle of Britain, to the Home
Guard and the firemen and auxiliaries
who saved what could be saved in the
bombing blitz, to the Royal Navy and
Merchant Navy—thanks to these and to
the old defensive moat Britain stands
where it stands today.
But after Dunkirk, Mr. Churchill has
stated, Britain had fewer than 100 tanks
available against the whole massive power
of the German armor. In America there
was a rounding-up of rifles and even
sporting guns to send to Britain. Aus-
tralia sent a few. J.B. had less anti-aircraft
defence for the whole of his home estate
than he now has for one of his hamlets.
There were fewer guns defending Lon-
don than now defend London’s smallest
suburb. J.B. paid a bitter toll for this
neglect. In the winter of 1940-41, when
the bombing blitz raged at its worst, 43,000
civilians were killed outright and a larger
number seriously injured. On three sepa-
rate nights of horror more than 1000 civi-
lians lost their lives in London.
When France fell, J.B. had in the Medi-
terranean “little more than a token force ;
a few cruisers and destroyers and no-
thing else” (Admiral Cunningham) facing
an Italian strength of six battleships, 21
cruisers, 131 destroyers and 104 sub-
marines. At that time British land forces
spread over' Egypt, Palestine and East
Africa totalled a mere 90,000 men. In
March this year the fact was given out
in London by the Admiralty that “a single
fighter pilot was the sole defence of the
entire British Eastern Mediterranean Fleet
for a time during the early part of the
war.” The fleet there was without air-
craft-carriers for nine months.
The depth of the abyss into which J.B.
had sunk can be further measured by the
fact that when a move was made only
two and a half years before the war to
try to recover a little from the serious
state of defence neglect brought about
by the collective-security and peace-ever-
lasting cranks, Mr. Alexander, Mr. Morri-
son and Mr. Attlee pressed their party
(Labor) executive to vote against all the
Service Estimates, and were only defeated
by 45 votes to 39. Only about one year
earlier the London City Council (includ-
ing Mr. Morrison) refused the use of
Battersea Park for an anti-aircraft dis-
play on the ground that local residents
might object to the noise of gunfire!
In Australia the dead depth of the abyss
was plumbed in 1929, when, scrambling
into office for its only two years in the
whole interval between wars, Labor set
up a Government whose first act was to
suspend compulsory training. The instant
effect of this was that the militia strength
dropped away to a possible 15,000 men,
trained 16 days per annum when money
was found for camps.
The measure down to the depth to
which Australia had gone was pro-
vided by Mr. Curtin in a brave
lot of present fighting-strength figures.
They include a total of 800,000 men
sworn into the fighting services—
and that is a long way to have come
from what Mr. Curtin’s party left
defending Australia after 1929, and a
considerable distance even from what
defended Australia when the war started.
The present figures are there only because
the Menzies Government, when war
broke, perforce started them off; and
because time has favored Australia to
build them up.
In the meantime Australia, because it
had slid so far down the abyss, has
shared all J.B.’s misfortunes and had
special ones of its own. It still has no
sound cause to feel cocky. Well as
things have been going about the Medi-
terranean, the heavily- and widely-
defended German fortress still stands;
and, by present strategy, it will be some
time after that falls before any real
strength will be turned against the still-
too-close threatening Jap. It looks like
a long contract, and by any reckoning it
will be a hard ope. When it has been
fulfilled no doubt the abyss will yawn
open again, beckoning the sap-headed,
with a fresh lot of cranks and a most
obvious bunch of harebrained politicians
willing to lead them down.
What does it ever matter to these that,
win, lose or draw, it is the brave fellows
who do the fighting, not mouthing poli-
ticians, home-front workers or loan sub-
scribers, who pay the bitter price of
peace-time neglect? Jt is on record that
in the first great battle of this war the
British forces lacked sufficient armor.
“The men fought with a tenacity that
was awe-inspiring. Their discipline was
immaculate, their courage magnificent.”
But they were under-armored. And so
the tale has run on other fronts, with
many an A.I.F. grave among the last
lines of it.
Maybe there will be enough of these
800,000 or so servicemen and their sup-
porters to see that mere wind-bleating
politicians and cranks do not take charge
again. It will call for all the energy that
can be collectively mustered. Otherwise
it will be the same old slide down the
same old slope, with war once more
—and no time given for climbing out.
The New Larrikinism.
There is an uneasy feeling in Trades
Halls that Mr. Ward has been letting his
tongue run away with him. Not in
attacking the Opposition on the score of
its pre-war defence measures and its
alleged readiness to abandon the northern
half of the continent in the event of in-
vasion, an attitude suggestive of the
attacker being a scarred veteran of the
last war and an Australian counterpart
of Lord Roberts in respect of prepared-
ness. No ; audacity appeals to Trades
Halls when their politicians employ it
against “the capitalists,” and this Ward
stunt is keenly appreciated.
Nor have Trades Halls openly dis-
approved of Mr. Ward’s threat, issued
at Perth in contempt of the hours-old
assurance of the Prime Minister at
Perth, that “Labor” if returned to power
at the Commonwealth election would
“nationalise” banking and insurance. On
the contrary. Possibly old hands may have
considered it injudicious of Mr. Ward to
flout his leader in the latter’s own city,
at the same time reviving, memories of
Mr. Lang’s attempt to extort a 10 p.c.
tax on the amounts of mortgages held
by banks, trustee companies, mutual in-
surance societies, all other insurance
companies and all private mortgagees
(but not trade-unions or Mr. Lang him-
self as “Labor Daily” debenture-holder),
especially as Mr. Ward was one of Mr.
Lang’s devoted supporters. But if these
thoughts arose, the thinkers kept them
to themselves.
The concern felt in Trades Halls has
its origin in Mr. Ward’s attack on Mr.
L. L. Carter, secretary of the Westralian
Employers’ Federation. Provoked by Mr.
Carter’s criticisms of his vendetta against
wage-payers and his bitterly partisan atti-
tude to strikes, particularly N.S.W. coal
strikes, Mr. Ward lost his temper and ac-
cused his critic of having made “baseless
charges... . very close to Fifth-Column
work.” And, addressing his critic oyer
the air, he threatened to “make some in-
quiries about you, for I am a bit con-
cerned as to whether it may not be
truthfully said that quite certainly you
are not gainfully employed, but rather
mischievously employed.”
According to his own account, Mr.
Ward did not serve in the last war
because it was “a war waged by imperial-
ists for the purpose of destroying a trade
competitor and extending territory and
spheres of influence in the interests of
capitalism.” He seems to take a special
delight in attacking men who did serve
in that war, and that without bothering
about facts ; notably Captain Harrison,
M. Chief Arbitration Judge Piper
and Mr. Carter. That gentleman had
four years at the last war and came back
with one good eye and an M.C. He has
two sons in this war. No doubt Mr.
Ward will get away with his attack on
this Old Digger without apologising,
though he found it necessary to apolo-
gise in his ill-conditioned fashion to Cap-
tain Harrison and Mr. Piper. Where he
blundered in the Trades Hall view was in
threatening Mr. Carter with a call-up.
It endangers the whole case on which
the exemption of the host of trade-union
officials rests, as was illustrated when one
of the union secretaries freed by the
obliging Mr. Beasley from the impertin-
ence of an A.W.C. prosecution was
placed on the call-up list.
“Protection” was granted to these
worthies on the ground that one and all
were necessary to the efficient working
of industry in war-time. To give an air
of verisimilitude to a bald and uncon-
vincing narrative, the concession was ex-
tended to the staffs of employers’ associa-
tions. But the number of employers’
associations is small compared with the
number of trade-unions, and their com-
bined office staffs would not nearly measure
up to the total employed by, say, the
A.W.U. On the list of N.S.W. employers’
unions are (or were) excavation and
sewerage contractors (six members),
chiropractors (20), general contractors
(29), ice manufacturers (30), hosiery
manufacturers (33), master slaters (29),
master plumbers (31), master fish mer-
chants (56), master farriers (63) and pro-
fessional photographers (74). Obviously
these concerns don’t employ office staffs,
and there are hundreds like them.
On the other hand, the Common-
wealth Statistician, reporting in 1940, said
there were then 381 “distinct” trade-
unions with 2183 State branches and
955,862 members (a great many members
have, of course, been added since). The
number of “separate” unions was 812,
but most of them were included in
federated organisations. Of these there
were 117, with 803,432 members, who
maintain also the A.C.T.U. (objective,
“the socialisation of industry, production
and exchange”) and 27 councils, each with
a staff —one of them is the Sydney Labor
Council, which has been recaptured by
Communists.
Although trade-union membership
figures appear now and then,' the number
of persons willy-nilly supported by
the membership is never published.
The information should be got, by way of
a Parliamentary question, if only to re-
move suspicions, such as newcomers in
war factories are apt to form when large,
truculent walking delegates arrive among
them, that union offices have become
funkholes, for Reds in particular. On
rare occasions call-up notices have been
posted to “protected” union bosses. Pierc-
ing were their squeals and those of their
friends till the inadvertences were cor-
rected, and frightful would be the scene
if Mr. Ward, in aiming at Mr. Carter,
hit hulking members of this privileged
caste. He would never hear the end of it.
There is no case for “protecting” unions
of wage-payers or unions of wage-
receivers. Their employees should be
exempted from service obligations only
on grounds of age, physical incapacity or
proved necessity to their organisations,
and proof of their necessity should be re-
quired. No doubt, as in the case of
employer-unions, there are employee-
unions which are carried on by men past
the age of service who, so far as they
are able, preserve the old ideals of union-
ism as an instrument for collective bar-
gaining and for the promotion of mate-
ship and loyalty to Australia and the
British Commonwealth. But there are
others with very different methods' and
ambitions which are employers on a
large scale ; and from these hundreds, if
not thousands, of men could be taken
for one service or another with advantage
to everybody but themselves. With the
removal of such fellows, who, to the
extent that they are excessive, are para-
sites on industry, war strikes, stoppages
and go-slow would straightway decline,
if they did not cease altogether.
The exemption of State politicians
should also be withdrawn. It cannot be
justified in the case of the Sydney “Par-
liament,” whose Labor majority, in the
eighteenth month of the war with Japan
and the forty-fifth month of the war with
Germany, can find nothing better to do
than set up a Greyhound Control Board,
establish a horseracing club (with a
guarantee of interest to investors in it),
clap a punitive tax on pastoralists (one of
the results would be to deprive the Com-
monwealth Government of war revenue),
defend coal strikes which the P.M. branded
as traitorous 16 months ago and seek
authority for dismissing an industrial
Judge obnoxious to trade-union bosses, at
the same time arming the trade-union
bosses with the weapon of “absolute pref-
erence” and pretending that its unspeak-
able measure is designed to secure indus-
trial conciliation. Fancy trying to con-
ciliate Communists!
Counting Sergeant Chaffey as U.A.P.,
like his soldier-father whom he succeeded,
four of the 16 U.A.P. Assemblymen have
served abroad with this A.I.F. On that
basis at least a dozen Labor Assembly-
men should be available for the fighting
services from the 55 Labor Assembly-
men, allowing for the exclusion of the
five or six who, with one exception not
then politicians, served in the last war.
In that war two N.S.W. Labor politicians
were killed. In this war not one N.S.W.
Labor member, State or Federal, has
been at an action station, although there
are many more now than there were then.
Of course it is idle to expect Mr. Ward
to cancel any of the immunities granted
to union bosses and State politicians.
Though he has fallen into temporary dis-
favor with the Thornton element, he
aims at being the accepted champion of
the new labor-union aristocracy, which
differs from the old aristocracy, never
too proud to fight foreign foes, in
priding itself on fighting its own country-
men with the weapons peculiar to it. In
this respect it resembles the larrikin
“pushes” of the ’nineties. Perhaps the
new unionism, with its strikes, stoppages,
slowing-down tricks and blackguardly
methods of coercion, is the old larrikin -
ism returned to life in its old haunts
and, with the Communist infusion and
vastly greater opportunities, viler than
ever —larrikinism in the most infamous
and dangerous form that larrikinism has
ever taken. For larrikinism, force in the
form of law, applied by stern hands, is
the one sure remedy. Labor Govern-
ments are too pusillanimous to app y i ,
but the one at Canberra will not be m
office much longer.


PLAIN ENGLISH
Pay-as-you-go.
The adoption of the pay-as-you-go prin-
ciple by the U.S. House of Representa-
tives drew a belated expression of interest
from Commonwealth Treasurer Chifley
and a promise that he would examine
the U.S. taxation measure. This will take
time, and time is precious, the new finan-
cial year being only six weeks off. Mr.
Chifley would do much better to
“examine” the Canadian pay-as-you-go
plan, now in operation and decided upon
as a sequel to the abolition of provincial
income-taxes for at least the period of
the war —in the Republic the position is
complicated by the crowd of State in-
come taxes, all still in force, though in
some cases recluced.
Particulars of the new Canadian plan
are in Mr. Chifley’s possession, or should
be; the Canadian High Commissioner s
office is very obliging in these matters.
But in case Mr. Chifley has mislaid the
essential facts, here they are as set out
in a Trade and Commerce Department
digest of his brother Treasurer’s Budget:
By a tax-collection system announced
last year, income tax assessed on incomes
of the calendar year 1942 was made
payable over the 12 months from Septem-
ber 1, 1942, tp August 31, 1943. This
supplanted the former system whereby
returns for the previous calendar year were
filed in the spring of the year following.
Progress towards the pay-as-you-earn
plan was made in the 1942 programme.
The further development proposed this
year will eliminate an eight months’ lag and
establish the current basis of collection on
April 1 [i.e., the beginning of the Canadian
financial year].
In reaching the current basis the Govern-
ment will write off 50 per cent, of the 1942
taxation liability on earned income. For
investment income of more than 3000
dollars, 50 per cent, of the 1942 liability
will be deferred until the death of the tax-
payer.
Because of the difficulty for farmers to
estimate their income in advance, they will,
on the basis of a rough guess or calcula-
tion, be required to pay two-thirds of their
tax any time up to December 31, and the
balance when they file their final returns
in March of the following year.
Simple enough; and the proposition
in Australia is simpler still. All that
is necessary is to start 1943-4 tax on
1943-4 incomes from July 1. It will
involve some additional work for the
Taxation Department, for one thing be-
cause increased weekly collections have
been made since April 1 and adjustments
will be required; but this aspect is alto-
gether unimportant compared with the
interests of the taxpayers and the nation.
Over a term of years, rates of tax being
the same —and they can scarcely be in-
creased unless post-war credits are
adopted—there will be a greater annual
revenue from tax on the current year's
income than on income for the previous
year. When incomes inflated by the war
cease to be inflated, as must happen
sooner or later, it will be impossible to
collect tax on what has vanished into
thin air; and scores of thousands of
Labor supporters will most probably be
in that position. Infinitely better to make
ability to pay the criterion and collect
from people when the burden can be
borne, not try to collect when it is insup-
portable.
The Bigness of Beasley.
The “order, duty, discipline” of
“McAndrew’s Hymn” was the note struck
in an announcement made in Melbourne
last month. In a land cumbered with
Governments which do not govern it had
a rare and refreshing sound:
Members of the Civil Construction Corps
cannot pay allegiance to two bodies, the
Allied Works Council and the unions. The
Government has made me responsible for
works without which the Navy, Army and
Air Force could not defend Australia. If
1 am to enforce such regulations against
members of the Civil Construction Corps
I will enforce them against union officials
and leaders who mislead men and urge
them to break the regulations and hold up
vital work.
That was Mr. Theodore, as Director-
General, justifying the prosecution of
two union secretaries who, in defiance of
an arbitration award and of public neces-
sity, had summoned large bodies of men
from their jobs to attend stop-work meet-
ings. Mr. Theodore in a role which,
whatever his past political history, could
command only the admiration and sup-
port of Australians conscious of their
country’s peril and worthy the name.
Though well acquainted with members
of the Labor Government, particularly
Mr. Beasley and Mr. Ward, Mr. Theo-
dore apparently looked for support from
that quarter. He did not get it.
There were alarums and excursions in
the labor-union world, and one of the
accused was heard shouting that if he
went to gaol he would expect every union-
ist to come out on strike. And Mr.
Beasley stole into the picture. As Acting
Attorney-General Mr. Beasley wrote a
letter to a union president “in connec-
tion with the arrest of the secretary of
your union”:
The matter was given attention as soon
as advice of the arrest was brought to my
notice. Immediately steps were taken to
have Mr. Frank released from custody.
At the same time steps were taken to in-
struct those responsible for the action taken
that power of arrest given by Section 13
of the National Security Act was not
designed to be exercised in circumstances
similar to those under which Mr. Frank was
arrested.
I may assure you that the arrest of Mr.
Frank was not carried out with the approval
or even the knowledge of any Common-
wealth Minister.
Cancellation of the prosecutions (there
was a third) followed. This was done
without “the approval or even the know-
ledge” of the Director-General. At the
week-end he had not said that he would
resign, but he may as well do so since the
Government has destroyed his authority.
As Mr. Hughes has said, it has also shown
that it places union bosses above the
law.
By brisk young gentlemen who write
political stuff for accommodating “Tory
papers,” Mr. Beasley has been boomed
as one of “the Big Four.”
Y.D. on Parade.
Representatives of women’s organisa-
tions have made a spirited protest against
current newspaper stunt “campaigning”
on v.d.
Not before it was due. One Sydney
sheet has run a daily v.d. serial for
weeks—a stunt if anything ever smelt
like one. It drew from the president of
the Feminists’ Club an incisive com-
ment: “I object to the whole drift of
propaganda implying that there is not a
moral woman left in Australia.”
Whatever may put a stop to any spread
of v.d., this kind of propaganda won’t do
it. Some Australian women and girls in
places like Sydney have made themselves
a grim sort of laughingstock by their
public behavior since the war gave them
plentiful opportunity, but they are a com-
parative few. Short of Government
licensing them in the sort of places they
are headed for, there isn’t much in a
public way that can be done about it.
The whole matter is a social and medi-
cal problem, not a serial theme for a
stunt newspaper that will forget all about
it as soon as public interest in this singu-
lar form of sex literature wanes.
Check for Jacks-in-Office.
Though the flood of Nat. Sec. Regs,
pouring unceasingly out of Canberra had
been seriously undermining the Burrin-
juck of constitutional rights it was a
State Chief Justice, not a State Premier,
who finally mended the dam and asserted
the rights of the citizen.
The case in point was an appeal by
the owner of a King’s Cross (Sydney)
joint against an order to close down
issued by Premier McKell. Upholding
the appeal in the Full Court, Chief Jus-
tice Jordan said that evidence showed
the place to be “an infamous sink of
iniquity,” but there was no legal reason
why such places shouldn’t be suppressed
without “abusive use of National Secu-
rity regulations.”
Nat. Sec. Reg. 35a was issued in
December, 1941. It gave State Premiers
powers relative to blackouts and the pro-
tection of the civil population in emer-
gencies. The McKell Government tried
to use it to suppress social evils without
consulting its Parliament.
An order made in March, 1942, was
challenged and declared ultra vires by
the Full Court in October. Promptly the
Federal regulation-makers tried to enlarge
the Premiers’ powers and prevent persons
obtaining redress for irregularities under
the invalid order.
The. appeal was against the powers
exercised by the N.S.W. Premier under
regulations issued on October 20, 1942.
Said the Chief Justice:
The regulations were deliberately vague
and indefinite. They were obviously framed
for the purpose of making it as easy as pos-
sible for a State Premier to assume auto-
cratic powers without reference to the State
Parliament and also to deter persons who
might be injured by their exercise from
venturing to challenge their validity. There
is no doubt that they are an abuse of the
regulation-making power as conferred by
Section 5 of the National Security Act, and
that in the attempt to make them retrospec-
tive there has been deliberate violation of
Section 48 of the Acts Interpretation Act.
Mr. Curtin, in a somewhat staggered
voice, announced that he would “look
into the matter.” It “astonished” him
that the existing laws of the State should
not cover the situation adequately. What
should have “astonished” him was the
length to which his collection of regula-
tion-makers has gone and to which their
delegates have exercised them, and what
will “astonish” both him and Mr. McKell
before long will be the long-suffering
public’s reaction.
Milk and Eggs.
The Sydney Milk Board celebrated its
thirteenth year by rationing milk. Syd-
ney isn’t, or oughtn’t to be, surprised.
Its memory of the 13 Milk Board years
is one of inability to get milk, because it
is scarce or dear or both, of expensive
royal commissions whose recommenda-
tions are always ignored, and of suspicion,
unsupported by balance sheets, that two
distributing companies make a very good
thing out of milk.
The board blames the “bad season” for
the shortage. Late autumn is always a
bad time in the type of country which
comprises the Sydney milk zone. The
board should know this, and it could, had
it wished, have made arrangements for
extra supplies of milk from outside the
arbitrarily restricted zone. Instead it has
blithered and doddered on until the only
expedient it can think of is to ration
milk severely when milk is most needed.
It should be asked why it has refused
to entertain the application of the Con-
sumers and Producers’ Co-op. Society
for a producer-vendor’s milk license.
On 19/4/’43 the C. and P.C.S. wrote
to the Milk Board saying it could supply
100,000 gallons a week, and was prepared
to confine that supply to users of lots of
10 gallons or more, as it did “not wish
to interfere with the two distributing
companies.” The board invited it to sub-
mit a “detailed description” of its plans.
The society replied that, in view of past
experience, it doubted if that would serve
any good purpose, but reiterated its claim
to be able to supply milk if granted a
license and referred the board to Justice
De Baun’s report of 1940:
At the inquiry conducted by Mr. Swift
the Newcastle and Suburban Co-op.
Society, Ltd., claimed that it should have
been made... .a board agent... .The society
should be given an opportunity to make
good its present claim..... Any other
person who could do likewise should, I
think, be given an equal opportunity of
buying directly from a country factory
either raw or pasteurised milk.
In other words, if the C. and P.C.S.
thinks it can make up the deficiency in
the city milk supply without lowering
the grade of milk or charging more than
present prices, it should be given a go.
It hasn’t given up trying.
The Egg Board is even older than the
Milk Board, and its record is, if anything,
worse. Like the Milk Board its area
is restricted, though it has tried several
times to boss every chook in the State.
Anyone within its area who owns 20 or
more “female fowls of productive age” is
under board domination as to the dis-
posal of the eggs. Hence a great decline
in backyard production.
Now the city is told that it will not get
ample supplies till spring. Again the
season and the war are blamed. Demands
for an inquiry into the reason why 14-
million eggs in storage went bad have
been hurriedly smothered up. NobQdy
suggests that the Egg Board can lay eggs
itself, but, like the Milk Board, it is re-
sponsible for avoidable shortages. The
Sydney Government, instead of fulminat-
ing against the Upper House, bragging
about its “war effort” and making great
fusses about university professors, race
clubs, coursing dogs, cabarets and legiti-
mate organisations of citizens, would be
better employed inviting these boards to
explain themselves before it finds a
hungry city on its hands. And Canberra,
which gave mothers of families ss. per
week per child after the first to feed the
children, ought to be tartly asking the
Sydney Government what the mothers
are “spending” the money on, since they
can’t buy enough milk and eggs, staple
foods for children, with it.
OL’ MAN CURTIN.
“Mr. Curtin said he would give the strikes earnest consideration. Asked about the cancellation of
the proceedings against stopwork union secretaries, Mr. Curtin said ‘I have done nothing in the
matter.'”
He don’t see nothin’,
He don’t do nothin’—
He just keeps driftin’ along.


Queensland
Insurance Go.
Ltd.
Head Office:
Pitt & Bridge Streets,
Sydney.
The Largest
Australian Company
Transacting
Fire, Marine, Accident, House*
holders’ Comprehensive, Workers’
Compensation, Boiler Explosion,
Machinery Breakdown, Aviation,
etc.
Gordons
Gin
TANQOERAY GORDON £ CO. LTD.
LONDON GIN DISTILLERS
LONDON ENGLAND
Poisonous Waste
in the Blood
may cause Rheumatism, Lumbago,
Sciatica, and other painful ailments
arising from disordered kidneys.
DOAN’S
BACKACHE
KIDNEY PILLS
make you well and keep you well.
Don’t delay. Remember the name—
DOAN’S!
SOLD BY ALL CHEMISTS
AND STOREKEEPERS.
Foster-McClellan Co.,
Proprietors,
15 Hamilton St., Sydney.
POLITICAL POINTS
Since Curtin came back from the Wes
a story that negotiations for a nationa
Government have been set in motion has
thrilled Canberra. A Sydney conference
to which both U.A.P. groups have sent
delegates is connected with it. If there
is anything in the yarn the parties to the
manoeuvres are keeping their own coun-
sel.
F. Ehrenfried Baume, from his listening
post in London, to Sydney “Terewth”:
Stalin is being described even by erst-
while Conservatives as the great propa-
ganda brain of the war. Certainly he con-
founded the Spanish Church this week
[May 1-8] and many within the Vatican,
who, fearful of Communism, might still
attack Russia.
In case a man-power question arises, it
should be noted that at the last census
'Vatican City had 1025 inhabitants, of
whom 833 were Italians (275 females)
and 121 Swiss (four females).
Beasley, alleged to be one of the alleged
Big Four, showed himself very small in
the cases of the Melbourne union secre-
taries charged with having called stop-
work meetings of C.C.C. men. The trade-
utiion hierarchy having put the heat on
him, Beasley whined, in effect, that it was
Theodore’s doing, not his, and he can-
celled the prosecutions—there were three.
One alleged victim of an alleged outrage
was “detained at the city watchhouse for
about four hours.” Sixteen alleged Aus-
tralia-Firsters from Beasley’s city were
detained in an internment camp for four
months without being brought to trial,
but in that case Beasley didn’t turn a
hair.
Any fight fan short of the fare out to
Sydney’s Leichhardt Stadium on a Thurs-
day night need only toddle up Goulburn-
street to the Trades Hall, where brawls
between Corns, and A.L.P. followers are
becoming weekly affairs. The one last
Thursday was over a Labor Council
“unity” motion, carried by 110 to 98, by
virtue of w'hich Corns, and the two Labor
factions are to be collected in one dis-
orderly mob, if possible, to “support the
Curtin Government and a greater war
effort.” The brawl was a no-decision bout
and will no doubt be resumed when
both sides can gather reinforcements for
the next meeting.
Beginning with the “absolute prefer-
ence to unionists” clause, and going on
to the one which would admit of Indus-
trial Judge Cantor’s scalp being presented
to union bosses, the Leg. Council in Syd-
ney is performing a necessary surgical
operation on the Dog- and Horseracing
Government’s Arbitration Amendment
(!) Bill. Hoarse threats of an abolition
referendum are coming from the other
shop. The defiant reply is that there will
be none unless the existence of the
Assembly as well as the Council is put
to the vote.
When Parliament was in session the
Labor Treasurer had no use for putting
his income tax on a pay-as-you-go basis.
Now, with the U.S.A., as well as Canada,
going in for pay-as-you-go, Chifley has
become less obstinate. The Chifley atti-
tude was common among the U.S. Demo-
crats till pay-as-you-go was made the sub-
ject of a Gallup poll. It was favored by
83 p.c. of Democrats, 87 p.c. of Republi-
cans and 86 p.c. of taxpayers in the lower
brackets.
The revolt against Billy’s leadership
has reinvigorated that astonishing ancient.
Driving his own car, he set out on a
700-mile tour of the Robertson (Spooner)
and New England (Abbott) electorates,
and spoke at meetings in something like
his old form. For example: —
The Sydney Labor Council cancelled the
affiliation of the Workers’ Educational
Association because one of its lecturers had
criticised Russia. He could have criticised
England; he could have spat on the name
of England, but he must not say a word
about Russia.
Back in Sydney, he said that the moral
of the Government’s backdown in the
stopwork cases was that union bosses
were above the law and above the Gov-
ernment —a law unto themselves. And
in both cases Hughes is Right.
Nowadays N.S.W. Deputy Premier
Badly, still titular Minister of Mines, is
an island of bone and beef totally sur-
rounded by dog-racing and horse-racing
forms. Looking up from the encompass-
ing sea of papers he mumbled something
about being unaware that the coal position
was causing concern in any quarter.
This was too much for Norman Mighell,
the Commonwealth Coal Commissioner,
who said that Badly should at least have
some hazy idea of the “position in his own
State.” Mighell added tartly that two of
Badly’s colleagues could “tell him of the
anxiety felt in their departments about
reserve stocks for the railways and elec-
tricity services.” Commissioner Orr, a
former Miners’ Federation man, came in
with the information that there had been a
production loss of nearly a million tons
of coal this year. After two attempts to
explain that he was not understood,
Badly plunged in thought about fiddle-
faced horses and tin-hare hounds again.
Norman Mighell on the coal situation,
after 19 months of Labor Government
and 18 months of war with Japan: —
. Production this year has not been suffi-
cient to supply our internal requirements.
Reserve stocks in all States are substantially
reduced. Because of the shortage several
ships available to carry coal for munition
works and other consumers in other
States have been diverted to other pur-
poses, and ships have had to leave for other
countries without urgently-needed cargoes
of coal. My commission has been com-
pelled to divert coal from other industries
and services to keep munitions factories
supplied.
It looks as if the Labor Government
will really have to supply the paper mills
with another set of regulations.
More N.S.W. coal strikes, more strikes
on the Sydney waterfront, necessitating
the keeping there of bands of service
men, and more metal trades strikes
against non-unionists —one, the wife of
Cassidy, K.C., spiritedly declares that she
is working to help the fighting men, not
to feed the arrogance of trade-union
bosses. Still “it’s all right, all right now”- —
Curtin is giving these matters “earnest con-
sideration.” In January, 1942, he said that
“men who are not in the fighting forces
and who at the same time will not work
are as much the enemies of this country
as the directly enlisted legions of the
enemy”; but he finds it convenient to
have a short memory.
Two pints make a quart, four quarts a
gallon. That simple rule should have in-
duced Sydney Milk Board to order the
rationing of milk by fourths, eighths
or twelfths. But simplicity never appeals
to boards ; the ration is ordered by fifths.
Anybody capable of a snap decision on
a fifth of a pint, quart or gallon is here-
by advised to get a job on the Milk
Board.
Dunstan got a neat one off when Ded-
man announced that it was impossible for
the Commonwealth to “control” fire-
wood in Victoria. Said Premier Dunstan:
“The State has no wish to try to induce
Mr. Dedman to take control of firewood
in Victoria an extension of his acti-
vities to firewood is most undesirable.
McKell has come out with the old,
old excuse —his Government is forming
the new racing club to improve the breed
of horses. Presumably Badly is trying to
improve the breed of dogs with his tin-
hare plan.
Announced by the “S.M.H.” man in
Canberra that “it has now become
known” that the Food Executive, set up
with the usual fanfare of trumpets, isn’t
executing, as it were, and that it won’t
be long before the Government is forced
to set up a single food control. Until it
is set up, and under experienced adminis-
tration, the food position will remain
chaotic.
The McKell Labor paper has started
a “Know Your State Members” column,
with portraits. First on the list is a
gentleman, aged 32, who calls upon the
farmers to “fight for their own rights
and the rights of those who work by
them and for them.” They have done
that already—farmers, pastoralists and
their sons: thousands of them. No sec-
tion has suffered more or has gained
more decorations, from the V.C. down.
But they have done and are doing
their fighting thousands of miles from
the pleasant club in Macquarie-street,
Sydney.
Replying to a Melbourne Trades Hall
Council suggestion that State factory
inspectors should be co-opted to police
Commonwealth industrial awards, Ward
replied that, while “the Government”
would be “very pleased” to oblige, he
“strongly favored the appointment of
additional Commonwealth industrial
inspectors.” There is already a depart-
ment of Commonwealth industrial inspec-
tors, with Blakeley, the former Labor
politician and A.W.U. organiser and
office-bearer, at the head. Under Ward’s
“new order” half Australia would get its
living by inspecting the other half.
Sydney dailies have a list of worthies
who can be depended upon to fill a
column on any subject when the neces-
sity arises. On it are the names of
Bishop Burgmann, the Rev. Watts, Mrs.
Jessie Street and Mr. McGuinness of the
Teachers’ Federation. Mr. McGuinness’s
place in this gallery has become doubtful,
for Mr. McGuinness has been reduced to
silence at last, and that by a Jady.
Referring to the case in which the Sydney
“Labor” Council declared the W.E.A.
University extension “black” because a
W-E.A. lecturer had reviewed Soviet
policy without striking the required atti-
tude of utter prostration, the lady
asserted that members of the McGuinness
joint were among the nasty little bigots
and would-be tyrants.
Teachers’ Federation delegates on the
Labor Council voted against reaffiliation
with the W.E.A. simply because that
organisation refused to dismiss a tutor with
whose views they disagreed. One would
expect teachers to support freedom of
speech among educators, particularly those
concerned with adult education.
Mr. McGuinness hasn’t been heard
from since.
Everard, who acts as U.AJP. leader in
Victoria while Hollway is about his
R.A.A.F. duties, has a son with political
ambitions. After young Everard had
been beaten by one vote for the Bulla-
Dalhousie nomination, old Everard an-
nounced that young Everard intended to
stand as an Independent and that, “even
if it meant resigning from acting leader-
ship of the U.A.P.,” O.E. would support
him. State politics, being more or less
family affairs, encourage this sort of
thing.
lan Macfarlan, the Brighton (Vic.)
M.L.A., is back in the U.A.P. The party
is “delighted... .his debating capacity
and administrative ability and experience
will add weight,” etc. Truly is there
“more joy in heaven over one sinner
that repenteth than over ninety and
nine” who don’t buck against orders.
If one sort of war report more than
any other needs to be viewed with the
deepest suspicion it’s the brand emanat-
ing from the European Continent. A
fair example came out in the wild welter
of published and broadcast rumors last
week. A mass of stuff from Berne opened
with a story of Hitler raging up and down
his western defences and sacking the com-
mander, with Amim “suggested as a pos-
sible successor.” Before readers sighted
this bit of wild guesswork the radio had
told them that Arnim was one of the bag
of prisoners in Tunisia.
Councillor F. R. Connelly, chairman
of Melbourne City Council’s post-war
committee, is out for Toorak. Although
a candidate for the State Parliament, he
would abolish all State Parliaments be-
cause “with so many different governing
bodies we might win the war but would
certainly lose the peace.” Connelly ought
to go far if he doesn’t weaken.
Nobody was louder than Ward in
opposition to defence votes, small as they
were, and to the defence of Aus-
tralian territory north of the conti-
nent ; and he made a boast of
having been a non-starter in the last
war. The current spectacle of this Min-
ister extraordinary stumping the country
trying to get political capital out of
screeching that a previous Government
would have abandoned the northern half
of Australia to invading Japs,, with the
implication that this was averted only
by the accident of a Labor Government,
is the worst joke since Caucus wished him
on Curtin.
Robert Garran doesn’t like “bureau-
cracy” and thinks it’s misapplied to our
system:
That system provided an executive con-
sisting of Ministers responsible to Parlia-
ment, which in turn was responsible to
the electors Public servants were con-
trolled by Ministers, as Ministers were by
Parliament and as Parliament was by the
people.
But, as it were, “that was in the golden
prime of good Haroun Alraschid.”
“S. M. Herald” . has acidly told
Ward that if the views of himself and
“other Labor extremists had governed
Australia’s defence preparations before
the war, Australia would have been
utterly defenceless before the enemy.”
But why single out the “extremists”?
Labor’s defence “policy” was to stay in-
side Australia and do the fighting here.
Had it had its way not one division, let
alone three, would have trained and be-
come war-wise with the Eighth Army.
Pointing out that a year has passed
since efforts were begun to get a milk-
zoning system operating in Brisbane,
efforts that involve Mr. Dedman’s
W. 0.1., the Federal Director of Agricul-
ture and the Queensland Cabinet, the
“Courier-Mail” remarks “Never was so
much done by so many for so little
result.” It applies to things other than
milk.
Melbourne Tramways Board announces
that the electric magnet on which its
technicians have been working has been
finally tested and will soon be in regular
use over the board’s bus routes to save
tyres and collect waste material. It
would be well worth the expense if it
collected a few State politicians.
Senator Wilson and the voteless but
dead-game Blain (reported a prisoner of
war in Borneo, after he had been given
up for lost) are the only Commonwealth
politicians who have been abroad with the
A.I.F. in this war. In the last war there
were eight serving members, four from
each side: Yates, McGrath, Ozanne and
Burchell (Lab.); Ryrie, Phipps Abbott,
Fleming and Heitmann (non-Labor).
Moreover, Hampson and W- J. Johnson,
both Labor, enlisted after they had lost
their seats (the enemy got Johnson in
France), and Wallace, who succeeded
Hughes in West Sydney (Hampson was
unseated by Billy in Bendigo), enlisted,
but had not embarked when the Armis-
tice was signed. An excellent record for
that House, especially as the average age
of members was not lower than it is now.


a
Gold Medal
PERSONAL ITEMS
Don Bradman is now a full-blown
member of Adelaide Stock Exchange.
The champion cricketer enlisted on the
same day as his great chum Charlie
Walker, but the illness that nearly settled
him in England has left its toll, and he was
invalided out. The ’keeper went abroad,
to be lost in a R.A.F. ’plane Somewhere
Over Europe. Bradman, giving up cricket,
made two more unavailing attempts to
enlist. There are two little Bradmans
and a little Walker, in whom Don is
taking a fatherly interest.
One Vic. Assembly . candidate won’t
address the electors after the polling and
may not know whether he has won or
lost for a long time. He is Lieut. G. H.
Lamb, M.L.A. for Lowan, now p.o.w.
in Malaya. He signed his nomination
paper before embarkation. Before he
enlisted he was Lecturer in English and
Economics at the Gordon Institute, Gee-
long, and before that was headmaster' of
Geelong Grammar Prep. School.
From an old acquaintance:
So Wallace Nelson is gone (B. 12/5/’43).
I knew him from the day he arrived in Kal-
goorlie 42 years ago, a very small man in a
very large overcoat, who paced along Hannan-
street talking tirelessly in a shrill Scots voice,
pausing only to chuckle. Defeated for Cap-
ricornia by a mere 139 votes, he had been
brought over from Rockhampton to edit the
“Worker” (that was 15 years before the
“Worker,” meanwhile transferred to Perth,
acquired Curtin) and from the “Worker” he
went to the “Sun.” Leaving that paper he
brought out a weekly of his own with an anti-
“ Sun” policy, giving juicy details of the pro-
prietors’ private lives. One he addressed as
“Harem,” the other as “Brigham Young.”
Jack Drayton, his successor on the “Sun,”
defended them as virulently, and, promoted to
the Perth “Sunday Times” (the same people
owned both), Drayton wrote a libel on Nelson
WALLACE NELSON.
so sweeping that the paper would have been
“shot” for £5OOO if one juryman, a butcher,
hadn’t held out. In the meantime Nelson had
become a goldfields Labor M.L.A. All in the
space of three years; and in another 18 months
or so his political career had ended, as also
had his career as litigant—rather ashamed of
his adventure in “personal” journalism he
generously dropped the action against the
“Sunday Times.”
He settled down in Perth as “Daily News”
leader writer. J. A. Adey, from Adelaide, the
“West Australian” leader writer, was his
special chum. Striding along St. George’s
Terrace, arguing and gesticulating vehemently,
the strangely assorted pair (Adey, tall, dark
and handsome, in topper and flogger) was one
of the sights of Perth. The odd friendship
ended sadly. Going to London to try his luck
]n Fleet-street, Adey was run over one night
>n the Strand. To the hospital came little
Wallace, just arrived in London on a visit.
My God, Nelson,” poor Adey groaned as he
caught sight of his pal, “I’m dying”—and he
was.
A wit, whatever the company, Nelson was
an uncommonly interesting speaker. Low’s
drawing of him was rather cruel, but Nelson
didn’t mind being caricatured or baited by
mterjectors provided there was no malice. To
an interjector he said once “When you call me
a monkey you insult me, but if I were to call
you a monkey I’d insult monkeys.” His
repartee was in that style—a bit old-fashioned,
but effective.
There are members of the C.C.C. who
have unusual records —W. D. Walton, for
instance. A D.C.M. and M.M. and for-
merly of the Black Watch, he was in
New Guinea when Hitler erupted, and
the bush telegraph didn’t bring him news
of the event until Warsaw had fallen.
He promptly headed south, enlisted in
the A.1.F., was subsequently sent back
for medical reasons and joined the mer-
cantile marine. Torpedoed and rescued,
he was torpedoed again six days later,
and stopped a Jap machine-gun bullet
while drifting in a lifeboat.
To surveying, droving, BuLLETiN-con-
tributing, novel-writing, news-chasing,
editing and secretarying for Senator
Cameron, Jim McCarter has added com-
posing. The title of his song, “My One
Love,” sounds a bit unlike Jim; perhaps
he’ll insist on “James” in future. Pub-
lishers Allan and Co. have described the
song as “very melodious and one that
should become popular.” McCarter’s
novels of the outback were Pan’s Clan
and Love’s Lunatic. His latest is a thriller
of American ward politics.
When James Ralph Darling took over
the headmastership of Geelong (Vic.)
Grammar in 1930 he started to teach the
boys self-reliance by turning them into
spare-time tradesmen and craftsmen. The
school now being overcrowded, with no
accommodation offering outside, 50 boys
are to build additions to Bostock House,
the preparatory school. There are enough
skilled youngsters to provide foremen,
the school has the materials, Man-power
can think of no objections, so by June 2
they expect to have built two dormi-
tories, a sleep-out, bathroom, lavatories
and a master’s bedroom and sitting-
room, the only professional assistance
being provided by the school’s licensed
plumber. Headmaster Darling was in
Australia first in 1929 ; he was conduct-
ing a tour of English schoolboys to M.L.
Born in Kent and educated at Oxford, he
was a second lieut. in the R.F.A. in the
last war.
Today they’re generals:
“Derwent Scollop”: In their Tasmanian
days the Montgomerys lived in a cream-
colored house with a beautiful . garden on
Fitzroy Crescent, overlooking Sandy Bay,
Hobart. The Elder of the tribe was supported
on long, thin legs, not looking their best in
gaiters. He wore a set of whiskers which
would astound any present-day congregation.
The Montgomery who now looks to ha\ e
worked himself out of a job, in Africa was
a peppery kid, deadly at pegtop, merciless at
marbles, very well behaved in Sunday school.
“N.L.”: Freyberg, V.C., D.S.O. and two
bars, etc., came to Maoriland from Eng-
land at the age of six with his mother and
father and four older brothers, Oscar, Paul,
Cuthbert and Claud. (Oscar was killed on
Gallipoli and Paul in France.) Mrs. Freyberg
and my wife often took tea together, and were
sipping the brew one afternoon at the Frey-
bergs’ when a fearful racket started overhead.
“That,” explained Mrs. Freyberg, “is Oscar
and Paul teaching Tiny to box.” (The future
V.C. was “Tiny” because at seven he was as
big as most lads of 14.) The tuition went on
for a year, Oscar and Paul having told Tiny
that when he got to college he’d have to fight
his way in. Meanwhile they were busy at
Wellington College arranging challenges, repre-
senting Tiny as a softy always tied to his
mother’s apron-strings and badly in need of
some knocking into shape. They picked boys
as big as Tiny but a lot older, and there was
a grand lot of challenges waiting when, in the
pink of condition and trained to the minute,
Tiny arrived, unaware of what was ahead of
him. Before he got home that night the lad
who was subsequently to swim ashore, painted
black, at Gallipoli and light the hoax lights,
and who now commands the N.Z. Div. in
Africa, had had six fights and won the lot.
“Worker” editor H. E. Boote under-
went a serious operation a few weeks
back and is calling it a day after half a
century in journalism, 41 years of it
with the “Worker” in Brisbane and in
Sydney. As a young man he followed his
trade of compositor in both these cities,
having served his time as an apprentice
in Liverpool (Eng.). Later he edited
papers in Bundaberg and Gympie his
launching and editing of the Gympie
“Truth” was at Andrew Fisher’s urging.
Sundry books of verse and prose stand
as milestones along the way.
Claimed that Churchill is the most
travelled war leader. His mileage on the
job includes going to meet Roosevelt in
the Atlantic in August, 1941 ; visiting
Washington in December of that year
and again in June last year ; then to
Moscow, to Casablanca and Turkey and
once more to Washington. Roosevelt’s
own mileage as President is pretty good,
too. Up to February this year it was
reckoned by the official scorer at a total
of 269,337 miles, which, the scorer
helpfully pointed out, is 30,579 miles
further than from the
White House to the
moon.
Jimmy Mitchell (to
be exact he’s a knight)
has had a 77th birth-
day. Born in Bun-
bury, he started in the
banking game as a
lad. In 1905, while
manager of the
Northam branch of
the W.A. Bank, he got
into Parliament, be-
came an honorary
Minister in the Moore
Government, was
Minister for Lands
and Agriculture in
1909, went into outer
darkness with the
Opposition from 1911
to 1916, but was
back as Minister for
Railways, Water and
Industries and became
Premier in 1919. His
Government lasted till
1924 and returned
again in 1930. He
lost his Northam seat
in 1933, and in the
same year recom-
mended by his poli-
tical opponent of over
30 years, Premier Col-
lier was appointed
Lieut.-Governor. ,
Reported missing
after a daring raid
over New Guinea and since officially
reported killed, Squadron-Leader Kenneth
Roy McDonald was one of Victoria’s
leading amateur aviators and won scores
of trophies for daring aerobatics and in
cross-country racing. In 1939 he joined
the R.A.A.F. and for a while was an
instructor at Point Cook. His war flying
hours were over 1785.
In early as an acceptor for the next
Federal Welter, T. F. Williams, who’ll
have another try at Robertson. He’ll
carry the A.L.P. colors again, his trial
gallop in the pre-selection ballot having
heartened his connections. At his first
outing in 1940 he finished on well to fill
second place in a large field. Williams
kicked off at Young (N.S.W.), went to
Wyalong, thence to Sydney to graduate
LL.B., into his own practice as a solicitor
and then to the Commonwealth Crown
Solicitor’s Office. He’s 46 and, at first
glance, looks like John Curtin.
Maoriland’s most ancient inhabitant,
Patrick Lucas Hamilton, of South Canter-
bury, has turned 113. He was born in
Donegal on St. Patrick’s Day when
William IV was king; started hard
work in his teens and has been
at the same practice ever since. Land-
ing at Lyttelton in 1870, he tackled
toil with threshing plants at a bob a day
and find himself. He brought out an Irish
colleen in 1874 and conveyed her by coach
a hundred miles to Timaru, where they
were married and settled on a farm. There
he has been ever since. Four years ago
a broken hip rocked him a bit, but he
can be seen still going strong in his
garden.
“Tom-Sea”; Corporal C. Nichol, of
Bondi (N.S.W.), is another Digger fight-
ing his third Empire war. He wears
ribbons from the Boer and 1914-18 wars
and has a “returned from active” badge
for a year’s campaigning in the Middle
East, invalided back. To cap it all he has
enlisted again! The only members of
his family eligible are in the services—
daughter “Bobby,” A.W.A.S.; son
Harold, A.1.F.; son-in-law Bert, R.A.A.F.
A committee of great social tonnage,
which includes the Lud Mayor and a
leading newspaper proprietor, has been
formed in Melbourne to look after the
destinies of Desmond Bradley, the eight-
year-old violinist who staggered an audi-
ence recently by playing an entire classi-
cal programme. Desmond, who comes
of the musical Bradley family, whose
patriarch died a few weeks ago and every
member of which is a musician, has
Jeanne Gautier for a teacher. That aus-
tere and distinguished French violinist is
(Modelled by Frith.)
ARBITRATION JUDGE O’MARA.
Like Chief Judge Piper, of the Arbitration Court, an
Old Digger.
a terrific worker. Her pupil was prac-
tising his violin with her when the com-
mittee was debating his future at the
Town Hall.
Into the silence:
Suddenly, at 37, Dr. J. E. Mills, lecturer in
chemistry at Sydney University. A graduate of
Brisbane and London Universities, he was a
member of the Chemistry Man-power Com-
mittee.
In Melbourne, Mrs. J. L. Lewis (Emmy
South), radio actress and writer. She was the
“Mrs. Hentwhistle” of a popular local broad-
cast and wrote a novel, Feet of Clay. Her
mother was actress Fanny Wiseman.
In an Italian p.o.w. camp, Major Edwin
Peter Tivey, of Melbourne. At Tobruk for
the full term and mentioned several times in
dispatches, he was wounded at El Alamein
and taken prisoner. He was a son of Major-
General Tivey, distinguished in the Boer War
and the Great War, and had a seat on the
Melbourne Stock Exchange alongside his father.
In Sydney, at 56, Charles John Jacobs, for
the past 25 years managing director of John
McGrath, chairman of directors of Commer-
cial Steels and Forge and other metal concerns.
He was a son of John Jacobs, an Adelaide mer-
chant who had come from Mauritius, trading
in sugar with his own ships; and former Mel-
bourne Mayor Cohen, who was in the chair
when the Duke of Edinburgh was round these
parts in the ’eighties, was his maternal grand-
father. At one time Charles Jacobs was
amateur heavyweight champion of Victoria.
In Melbourne, R. J. Oehr, hon. sec ; of the
Council of Melbourne Musical Societies for
28 years, and a member of the Faculty of
Music of the University for 12. He directed
the affairs of the Melbourne Philharmonics
for 33 years and was choirmaster for 42 at
Cairns Memorial Church, East Melbourne.
No special occasion occurred in Melbourne
without his having a finger in the musical pie.
Scotch College and a chartered accountant by
profession.
In Melbourne, Mrs. R. G. Casey, mother
of the British Minister in the Middle East
(tipped as the next Viceroy of India) and
Major D. A. .Casey.
At Kerry (Q.), H. G. Tommerup, born of
Danish parents in Holland in 1870. While a
very young teacher of languages at a Welsh
grammar school he assisted Gladstone prepare
speeches for the Commons. In 1897 he came to
Australia, took up journalism, joined the staff
of Warwick High School, was in the old A.1.F.,
then taught modern languages in secondary
schools and at Queensland Uni. till his retire-
ment two years ago. President and founder
of several cultural societies and life member of
the Hibernian Society.
In Rome, at 75, Archbishop Bartholomew
Cattaneo, Apostolic Delegate to Australia and
Maoriland from 1916 to 1933.


Society
"AND IT'S PRINTED
WITH WIMBLE'S INKS"
“Hamer”: My refugee friend who
revels in his conquest of the idiom had
a new one for me the other day when
the Russo-Polish flare-up was mentioned.
The refugee was playing chess, which
was too serious a matter to be inter-
rupted. “But come an’ see me at my
cooked dish of meat and I vill gif you
the lowboy on it,” he volunteered.
Some day I may go to his joint and get
that low-down.
*** ' *
“B. Hackshaw”: Melbourne Wesley
Church’s Pleasant Sunday Afternoon has
been celebrating its 50th anniversary. It
had its origin at a time when there was
public concern about the sweating evil.
In 1893 a deputation of tailors and boot-
makers asked the Premier of the day to
do something about it. He had an in-
"But, Sergeant, there's no giraffes in New Guinea!"
“Except this one, sir."
spiration, and asked them if they would
repeat their allegations on a Sunday after-
noon at Wesley Church. They jumped
at the notion and had stickers printed
with the headline “The Sweating Evil;
Hear What the Workers Have to Say
about this Dreadful Evil.” The church
was packed, and this way of passing a
Sabbath afternoon became an institution,
Important people who have.spoken from
Wesley’s platform since the men of scis-
sors and aprons first mounted it include
Ramsay MacDonald, Harry Lauder, Sir
Oliver Lodge, Duff Cooper and Noel
Coward.
* * * *
“Bohemian”: The attempted sale by
auction of the Balfour Estate of 2622
acres in the Pahiatua district (M.L.) —it
was passed in at £9 10s. an acre —was a
reminder that Fernland just missed gain-
ing A. J. Balfour as a colonist. He
intended to settle in M.L. and bought the
land cheap—there is a local legend that
he got it for half-crown an acre. The
country was in the doldrums. The min-
ing boom had died away, and hundreds
were leaving for Australia. This reason
and the arguments of Lord Salisbury,
who saw a political future for his
nephew, induced AJ.B. to stay in
England.
*
“Loc”: A party of Asiatics who
have taken up temporary residence on
Sydney’s shores are up to their ears
in the trials of civilised life. Any
one of them would prefer a herd of mad
elephants to our traffic. And the local
habit of queueing up outside a peculiar
little pagoda lettered “P.M.G.,” and
sojourning therein, talking or possibly
saying prayers to an idol, has them mysti-
fied. One day the strangers noticed the
case of a lady who had the field to herself
(no waiting queue), and who apparently
was established in the pagoda for good, and
decided to investigate. The first inkling
she had of their presence, a ring of dusky
faces peering into the telephone-booth
from all points of the compass, was
enough, and, signing off with an abrupt
“eeek,” she dropped the receiver and
bolted. One of the boys stole into
the box and picked up the earpiece,
which the late tenant had neglected to
replace on its hook, put it to his ear
and went the nearest shade to white he’ll
ever be. Others of the group listened
in turn, mainly to agitated cries of
“Hulloa! ” “Speak up, Lily! ” and “Lily,
is that you?” Now the turbanned ones,
with pained expressions, still glance at
the pagoda—but from the other side of
the street.
# # * *
“Tasser”: Hobart Police Court was
puzzled when a witness referred to “lares”
at a dance-hall, the Beak calling for a
dictionary. To be a “lare” or to “iare-
up” has been fairly common on the main-
land for years, having replaced “larrikin”
to a large extent, but apparently it hasn’t
penetrated to the Speck’s legal fraternity.
Commenting on the Court’s bewilder-
ment, a “Mercury” writer remarks that
most Tasmanians still use “chart” for
map and “bank” for hill. So far, the
Tasmanian habit of calling a friend
“duck” hasn’t reached the mainland,
“Sir” to an elder or superior is an island
courtesy that wouldn’t hurt the continent,
* * * *
“Norther”: You people down south
hear a lot about C.C.C. industrial troubles
but not enough about the work the organ-
isation does. Take a 400-mile strategic
road, built in four months by 2600 men
and comparable with the Yank-Canuck
road through Alaska. Nearly 8000 tons of
equipment had to be on the line before
the job started. There were 14 camps,
with 140 cooks and assistants, three hos-
pitals with doctors and nurses, four saw-
mill camps and several bridge camps and
34 gravel pits. They built 34 bridges and
more than three miles of culverts, hewed
34,000 tons of stone and laid 1,100,000
tons of gravel at the rate of 15 miles a
day. The usual northern floods came
down on ’em. One man went missing ;
there wasn’t a boat, so his mates made
one out of galvanised iron and, 60 hours
after the search began, found him roost-
ing in a tree. Two ’planes were used on
the job, and during the floods they flew
food to the marooned and took off the
sick and injured. After the war the road
will be a decided asset.
* * * *
“Peter Piper”: The blind are also being
used to good purpose in Australian war
industries (B. 12/5/’43). Chatting cheer-
fully, trios of them make their way
through crowded streets to the daily
“Show your identity cards, everybody!"
grind. Some are talented musicians. One,
Percy Roberts, a sightless organist, is a
member of Sydney Trocadero’s orchestra.
*_* * *
“X.S.”: The night was wild and stormy
and the rain was coming down in tor-
rents. A passer-by, hearing cries for help,
rushed to a ’phone and told the police
patrol that a man was drowning in the
Yarra. The patrol turned up in a jiffy
and distinctly heard cries coming from
the other side of the stretch of muddy
water. Yelling to the victim to hang on,
they raced across a bridge, clambered
down the bank and found a perfectly dry
and happy gent, sitting under the bridge
clinging to a bottle of pldnk. All he
wanted was a lift up to the pavement
so that he could wend his way home to
his missus. He spent the rest of the night
cosily in the lockup.
* * * *
“Lao-dah”: Adversity stimulates in-
vention. When Japan collared nine-tenths
of the world’s quinine scientists got to
work, and within 12 months a British
committee, assisted by an Australian
tropical expert, had developed a sub-
stitute in mepacrine. Mepacrine has ad-
vantages over quinine. Quinine can kill
children, and many adults are allergic to
it. Mepacrine, it is claimed, cures in five
days against 30 days for quinine, and a
ton of it will chase the germ out of
600,000 victims, whereas the same amount
of quinine can do the trick for a bare
30,000. Apropos, a case of malaria is
reported from the N.S.W. South Coast,
the patient being a boy who has never
been out of the district.
% * % *
“Niloc”: Under the heading “The
Great Australian River Mystery” an
American newspaper publishes an
account of strange happenings in these
parts. A military group was conducted
along a river by an Australian native
guide who seems to have borne a close
resemblance to Paul Robeson. He had
a habit of “letting off a womera, whose
shattering report cut the silence of
the Australian jungle like a knife”
(a footnote obligingly explains that a
womera is “a weapon for keeping
the dread marsupial tigers, at their dis-
tance”). Then a lantern was produced,
and the party, guide and all, got into a
boat and pushed off. They floated along,
out among the Bunyips, bawling and
beating drums (the guide beat his chest)
and scooping up fish that leapt into the
craft. It isn’t clear whether the fish
were frightened out of the water or were
attracted by the light, but the air above
and around the boat was at various times
full of mullet, leaping in all directions.
That’s all. The main mystery, it would
seem, is where these yarns originate.
* * * *
“A.R.P.”: It has been here remarked
that one of the beneficial aspects of the
N.E.S. movement has been a melting of
the frigidity of life in the suburbs. More
evidence to support the claim comes
from Vaucluse, which considers itself one
of Sydney’s most exclusive parts. Its
inhabitants will freely confess that be-
fore the war they lived there anything
up to 20 years and hardly knew any of
their neighbors. It’s different now. Some
Vaucluse wardens won a pennant in a
State N.E.S. competition. The suburb
reacted like a country town when its
football team wins the premiership. A
marquee was erected on the competition
ground and the team supplied with dress-
ing-room, morning tea and a slap-up
lunch. A couple of nights later a picture-
theatre was hired, and the suburb packed
it to witness a function in connection
with the win. People who had never met
before shook hands and congratulated
each other, gifts were made to the some-
what embarrassed team, and a general
air of achievement ruled. If it proved
nothing else, it proved that even Vau-
clusians are still Australians under their
skins. It took danger and N.E.S. to get
under the skins.
* :S= *
“Clooter”: It’s fairly safe to have an
accident or become suddenly ill these
days in any centre of population. You’ll
be dead unlucky if there isn’t a first-aider
among the onlookers bursting for an
opportunity to show his or her ability.
Sydney and its suburbs can muster
thousands of them since the Japanese
threat appeared, and both the St. John
Ambulance and the R.L.S. people have
been hard put to it to supply instruc-
tors. Hundreds of women are doing
home-nursing courses. Funny things
happen, as when two spinster ladies of
sheltered life found a drunk in their
front garden one night and, while one
telephoned for a doctor, the other began
artificial respiration ; but the public is the
gainer. In quieter days many a person
suffered serious injury and death simply'
because among the crowd that gathered
nobody knew what to do.
* * * *
“Loc”: The notion that a St. Helena
or an Elba may be needed after this war
has suggested itself to many, among them
the High Commissioner to the Western
Pacific, Sir Harry Luce. His nomina-
tion is Falcon Island, in the Pacific. Ac-
cording to my gazetteer this speck is sub-
ject to seismic upheavals and periodically
disappears beneath the waves.
THE IRRECONCILABLES.
“Curtin is Ward’s ‘leader.’ ” — B. 12/5
A quaint association this, possessing
Features that both bewilder and confuse.
One can’t but notice, when they’re window-
dressing
With speeches destined for next morning’s
news,
The “leader” and the “follower” expressing
„ Divergent sentiments, conflicting views
That set the reader speculating whether
They’d not be happier parted than together.
To lead one surely must have those who’ll
follow
Whene’er Authority may crack the whip.
But what a sad misnomer ’tis, how hollow
That poor pretence of real leadership
Which palpable indignities must swallow
And let pronounced refractoriness rip
When some subordinate occasion seizes
To bellow out exactly what he pleases.
A Cabinet all diff’rences should smother
Within its ranks—at least to outward view—■
Its members speaking with one voice in brother-
Liness profound, entire agreement too.
But when the course one advocates another
Bluntly asseverates will never do,
It’s surely a legitimate deduction
That what the junta needs is reconstruction.
Time was, when leaders were of fibre tougher,
The would-be rebel or the mutineer,
Or he who’d proved himself a hopeless duffer,
Went out incontinently, on his ear.
But modern Labor usage wouldn’t suffer
A penalty so drastic and severe.
What Lang could do off-handedly, it’s certain
Would never be permissible to Curtin.
The cleavage deeper grows, the rift more steady,
As both the topics of the day attack.
And when our land is for elections ready
And puzzled crowds the halls and hustings
pack,
I’m wondering if Jack will muzzle Eddie
Or Eddie prove a sharper snag for Jack.
Strange mateships poverty will find. There’s
danger,
’Twould seem, of politics producing stranger.
N.S.W.
T. THE R.
ASTROLOGY DEBUNKED.
“ ‘High-sounding nonsense’ is the verdict pro-
nounced on astrology by a committee of U.S.A.
scientists after an exhaustive scrutiny into the
claims made for this branch of soothsaying.”
—“Saturday Evening Post.”
Mere trading upon fatuous superstitions,
Sheer undiluted balderdash as well,
Employed by humbugs posing as magicians
To wangle boodle from the gullible.
A game with crossing gipsy palms to bracket,
Or letting teacup leaves your fate portray!
But how the verdict will affect the racket
I wouldn’t like to say.
You trustful souls to whom are offered various
Fortunes that hinge on whether you were born
Under the signs of Cancer or Aquarius,
Leo or Scorpio or Capricorn,
Libra or Gemini, Pisces or Virgo,
Taurus (the Bull) or Aries (the Ram),
Be sure it’s all high-sounding nonsense — ergo,
It doesn’t matter a damn!
No real second-sight can be collected
Concerning what will happen, late or soon,
Just because “Jupiter is we'll-aspected” jt
Or “Saturn’s in conjunction with the moon.”
By what occurs on earth we’re helped or
hurted,
And not a single thing that you and I
Are or will be depends on “that inverted
Bowl that we call the sky.”
See, Science sets her foot on futile fictions,
But all-too-confidently if she hopes .
To knock the stuffing out of quack predictions
Or put a period on horoscopes.
Some instinct lingers still in man and woman
To seek some signs in stars that whirl and
whiz
And wax and wane—and will as long as human
Nature is what it is.
N.S.W,
MIDFORD.


“Tuart”: “Unavoidably detained Pert
several weeks; put off lambing till
arrive.” It must be 40 years since I wa
a party to publishing that faked wir
to a sheep-station manager ; the offic
jester fathered it on John Winthro
Hackett, boss of the “West Australian
and founder of the university which now
has Walter Murdoch for Chancellor,
daresay it is the oldest of all sheep-farm
ing jokes; old enough to have been
minted in the brain of a Saxon tendin
his Sussex flock or breathed into an en
chanting ear by the young Greek loafe
who sported with Amaryllis in the shade
And now it is having another innings
not only in Australia but in the U.S.A
There it formed material for a debate ii
Congress, being introduced by a gentle
man from Texas and alleged to be as
actual instruction to a labor-short sheep
man by one of the boards that litter the
gentleman’s country, as they do ours
The board, denying it, dropped into
poetry, which, read in the Representa
tives, has had a nation-wide circulation
I suspect that the Texas M.H.R.’s “infor
mation” came from some sportive Texai
in Australia who got it while week-end
ing in a hospitable homestead. As to
that, at least one legpulling N.S.W. pastor-
alist is catching city chaps with the
ancient stuff, attributing the “postpone-
lambing” injunction to Man-power.
* * *
“E.V.C.”: For the benefit of Bulletin
cartoonists (Andrews, for one, pulled a
boner in depicting a W.R.A.N. officer
with three rings of braid on one arm and
two on the other) let me recite a few
facts about naval sleeve badges of rank.
Naval commanders are entitled to show
three bars of braid, lieutenants two and
the midway rank, lieutenant-commanders,
two and a half. Permanent officers wear
straight rings, volunteer reserve wear
wavy rings and “sea-going” reserve have
interlocking rings adorning their sleeves.
I have noted a naval auxiliary patrol
officer with the three types of ring to-
gether on his arm.
* * *
“E.D.”: Alexander seems to be one
of those exceptional generals who have
no illusions about anything, not even the
press. Before he launched the campaign
which was as crushing as those of Scipio
and Belisarius in the same region, he
addressed war correspondents in this
forthright strain:
My aim is to present the right news to the
public in the most efficient way and in the
shortest possible time. To do this requires
a system... .Before a big offensive I see
that the press is ready and collected and at
the right places at the right time. In other
words, we shall see they get front-row
seats in the stalls when the curtain goes
up. There is one thing I particularly
stress the danger of speculating on
future moves.... In Burma last year I
laid most careful plans for misleading the
Japanese into thinking we would withdraw
northward towards Myitkyina, whereas it
was my intention to slip away and across
the Chindwin to Kalewa. To my conster-
nation, the night before we moved it was
given out on the air that “the British forces
•are withdrawing to their base at Kalewa.”
The result was that we were partially cut
off, and only after heavy fighting did I save
the small force that I had. I lost some of
my artillery and 49 tanks out of. 50, as well
as a considerable number of killed and
wopnded. The commentator could not
have known my plans.... some “wise guy”
was speculating as to what we might do.
Incidentally, the Old School Tie general
has not yet received a tithe of the praise
that would have been his portion had he
been Alexandrovsky from Kremachug or
Novozibob.
* * H= *
“Craiser”: Sol Green has put for-
ward (and backed with £50,000) an un-
usual scheme for providing returned ser-
vice men with homes after this war. The
trust fund in perpetuity is to be devoted
to obtaining land free or on favor-
able terms from municipal councils,
the homes to be sold to returned men at
cost and without interest and paid for
with a £5O deposit and ten-year instal-
ments. There are to be no foreclosures,
and buyers unable to meet their commit-
ments can sell at cost through the trust,
the money to be reinvested in more land
and more homes. Architects and advisers
are expected to offer their services free.
When enough homes have been built the
trustees may divert the residue towards
the cost of building a public hospital.
Keith Murdoch, A. J. Fraser, chairman
of the Liquid Fuel Board, and account-
ant H. W. Buckley are trustees, and F.
Oswald Barnett, of the Housing Commis-
sion, who has done more than any man
to make Melbourne ashamed of its slums
and similar eyesores, will be honorary
adviser. , When a start is made depends
on Man-power and the controllers of
material.
*
“S.T.S.”: A wedding that might have
stepped straight out of a novel has been
legally celebrated in Adelaide, Time, 3
a.m.”; place, an office in the middle of the
Mile End goods yards. An airman from
Westralia had arranged to be married to
an Adelaide girl on his leave; but this
was cancelled, and all he was told was
that his train would pass through
Adelaide for a destination not revealed.
So the bride’s family got busy and, with
the consent of the Railways Commis-
sioner, the ceremony went through as
stated, the bridegroom re-entraining five
minutes afterwards.
* * * *
“Pawang”: In a report on the
typhoid epidemic in Cheltenham (Vic.),
Dr. Merrilees, of the Public Health De-
partment, said that 20 deaths out of a
total of 478 cases reported was far lower
than expected. He paid a tribute to
the improved bacteriological aids to de-
tecting victims and the skill and vigilance
of the physicians, who were able to diag-
nose the complaint correctly at a far
earlier stage than used to be possible.
Analysis shows that the 10-20 and over-
-70 age-groups were most severely smitten
—typhoid is a death warrant for nearly
50 p.c. of old people stricken with it.
One of the features of the outbreak was
the speed with which it was got under
hatches. Considering that carriers could
wander about all over the State this is
surprising.
* * * *
“Spoke,” unrepentant:
Daryl Lindsay (B. 5/5/’43) agrees that a work
of art should be judged irrespectively of the
medium, but then he says that a water-color, no
matter how exquisitely rendered, is to an oil
what a verse of lyric poetry is to a play by
Shakspeare. He would admit, I suppose, that
some of Shakspeare’s plays are better than
“When will you civvies realise there's no glamor in mufti these days ?”
others, and that a good sonnet by Shakspeare
would be better than a bad play by Shak-
speare. So it is what is expressed, not the
form, that is important, and I stick to my
original contention that the Director of the
Victorian Nat. Gallery made an incorrect, or
at least an ambiguous, statement when he said
that oils are a major form of art and water-
colors a minor, and that the water-colorist was
at a disadvantage in a mixed competition. If
the water-colorist had the knowledge and the
oil-painters hadn’t, he would be at a disad-
vantage only if the judges valued his work in
terms, not of what he said, but of how he
said it.
* 4: ifc »
“Chevroford”: It isn’t only the habit
of striking wax vestas on city buildings
that has gone out of fashion (B. 5/5/’43).
People have forgotten or never learnt
what their forefathers automatically
knew about horses. At an A.R.P. re-
hearsal in Melbourne an air warden
found a milk cart abandoned and un-
secured in Collins-street. After scratch-
ing his head for a few seconds he tied the
horse’s reins to a wheel of the cart.
* * * *
“Wart” on Tasman and Tasmania:
War-time austerity limited Tassie’s cele-
bration of the tercentenary of Tasman’s dis-
covery of the island to a few official functions
and the planting of trees by municipalities.
In 1923 the Royal Society of Tasmania erected
a monument on the shores of Blackman’s Bay
(Tasman called it Fredrik Hendrick Bay) on
the spot where the carpenter Pieter Jacobs
swam ashore and planted the Dutch flag. The
controversy which then started as to the correct
site is still going, but it has settled one thing
fairly conclusively—nobody now seems to know
where the carpenter actually planted the flag.
The old story about Tasman being in love
with Maria, the daughter of Anthony Van
Diemen, G.-G. of the Dutch East Indies, and
being sent in charge of the expedition to get a
troublesome suitor out of the way, is on its
rounds again. It first started about 1860 and
has cropped up ever since. The allegedly
lovesick Tasman certainly sprinkled the name
Maria plentifully about his maps and charts.
But Tasman when he made his voyage had
been married twice, and when he named Maria
Island, off the east coast of the Speck, he
stated in his diary that it was named in honor
of the wife of the Gov.-General. Anthony
Van Diemen didn’t have a daughter named
Maria. It seems a pity to spoil a romantic
story, but the evidence is against it.
* * * *
“Nakh”: Tell “XS” (B. 5/5/’43) that
Boehm’s bull and peasant, which he
reports as having been seen in a monu-
mental mason’s yard, are on their way
back to the National Gallery in Mel-
bourne. I have heard that the Agricul-
tural Show authorities, to whom they were
offered, decided against accepting them,
even on loan, because cattle experts de-
clared that the bull might have made
exhibitors from Blowfly Creek imagine
that the judges had gone barmy.
“Melbn”: Brighton (Vic.) Council’s
refusal with thanks of the Nat. Gallery
trustees’ offer of a life-sized marble statue
of Evcy and the Serpent because there was
no suitable site in which to place it or
where it could be protected from the
vandal throws an interesting sidelight on
a simple problem. An artist can paint
a female nude in any sort of setting and
hang it in an exhibition without anybody
being shocked, but he can paint a male
nude only in some allegorical setting.
Sculptors can carve both male and female
nudes and send them to exhibitions, but
councils, if they consent to set them up
in public places, insist on putting fig
leaves on them. These get knocked off,
as periodically happened with Hercules
in Adelaide. Whenever some sportive
individual unclothed Hercules there
was always a considerable increase
in the number of citizens whose way
into the city took them past him. The
traffic fell off immediately the council
belatedly restored the arboreal addition.
H= * * *
“Taniwha”: Alfred Hill, who, like
Mozart, found a pretty theme for an
opera in the legend of a magic flute (Hill's
was a Maori legend), should be mildly in-
terested in the result of a silly-season
newspaper discussion in Maoriland con-
cerning the longest word in any language.
Johannes Anderson, the poet, produced
a whopper Maori entry:
Tetaumatawhakatangitangihangakoauau
atamateapokaiwhenuakitanatahu.
It means, according to Mr. Anderson,
“The upland from which Tamatea
caused his flute to sound for his lady
love.” The legendary gentleman was a
Maori ancestor, much addicted to tootl-
ing his magic flute ( koauau ) from lofty
eminences. Runner-up in the long-word
race was a Welsh place-name:
Llanfairpwllgwyngyllgogerychwyrndrobwll
llantysiliogogogoch.
* * * *
“Niloc”: After a period of globe-
trotting with a 40-foot torpedo hole in
his ship, an English skipper has revealed
some subtle hoodwinking. His ship
copped the torpedo in an Atlantic con-
voy. The U-boat responsible rose to
the surface and, seeing its prey listing
slowly, with her crew clambering into the
boats, concluded that she was sinking,
and disappeared. Thereupon, the crew
scrambled back, and the engine-room
gang, which hadn’t taken part in the
abandoning, gave the ship all the speed
she would stand. After being nursed
along for 1600 miles she settled safely
in the mud of a U.S.A. port.
* * * *
“Avon”: Imperial sentiment, so strong
in Maoriland that in Parliament members
concerned about home defence find it
necessary to speak in apologetic tones,
has evidently deeply affected the Maori
race, as indicated by an incident at Native
Minister Paikea’s funeral. Right at the
end of the speechmaking (in which Prim-
inister Fraser had taken part), knight
Apirana Ngata took the platform and
made a vigorous protest on behalf of the
Second Maori Battalion. The Army, act-
ing, he felt sure, without t-he Govern-
ment’s sanction, had transferred 200 men
from one of the best-trained units to
aerodrome defence, “which,” declared the
veteran, “is no more than Home Guard
duty! ” He went on to declare that it was
definitely the wish of the Maori people
that the battalion should not serve in the
South-west Pacific, but should go to rein
force their comrades in Tunisia. Fraser,
flaring up, said Ngata had no right to
bring the matter up there, as it was still
before Parliament. He knew nothing of
the transfer, and there would be nothing
of the sort done without “the fullest dis-
cussion and consideration.” Ngata, ever
tactful, said in his most innocent way that
he only wanted to help the Government
make up its mind ; the place to discuss
such affairs was surely “on the marae”
(meaning at a meeting of Maoris). It
ended up with a warm public handshake
between Fraser and Ngata.
* * * *
“C.R.”:, Victorian cemeteries are suf-
fering from Man-power “organisation”
now. A Melbourne citizen reported that
he had attended the funeral of a near
and dear relation. A few days later he
visited the grave and found it still open.
If he wants a headstone for it he will
have to wait for another 12* months.
* * * *
“L.L.”: Latest contribution to war-
effort economy, from the sapient “Sun-
Pic.” :
About 1,000,000 shirts a week are ironed
by electricity in Melbourne. At three
minutes to iron the back and tails, this
means 50,000 hours of ironing. Using a
500-watt iron the Victorian housewife uses
25,000 units of electricity unnecessarily a
week —enough to keep a household light
globe burning continuously for about 55
years. If the time saved from not ironing
the back and tails were used in knitting
pullovers., at 50 hours each, 1000 extra of
these garments would go to our troops
each week.
The inference is that every housewife who
got such a good excuse for not ironing
the unseen parts of her husband’s shirts
would spend the leisure thus obtained by
doing something useful. But, on the
other hand, she might go to the pictures,
thus using up more watts and man-power.
My own inference is that if the man-
power expended in working out these
ingenious calculations and getting them
printed in the dailies went into the war
effort Australian tanks would be getting
a refill at the garages of Tokyo by
Christmas.
* * * *
“X.S.”: Opium-smoking has so de-
clined in Melbourne that the police have
knowledge of only one European addict
and a few elderly Chinese. Reasons for
the decline are varied. Nippon sprawls
across most of the regions where the
supply came from, war-time organisation
makes smuggling more difficult, and the
price of the stuff needs a millionaire’s
pocket-—what used to be two shillings’
worth now costs £l. Chirfese of the
younger generation may smoke Coronas,
but they have an educated contempt for
the drug that solaced so many of their
forefathers. Incidentally, all Victorian
Chinese have to sign a declaration that
they will neither smoke chandu themselves
nor keep the names of offenders they
know from the ears of the authorities.
«|5 -i- »r* U'
“J.H.M.A.” on a piratical father of
Australia:
William Dampier, the first Englishman to
pay a visit to and take a personal interest in
Australia, had many points of resemblance in
character to James Cook and Joseph Banks,
who made a closer study of the eastern side
of the continent in 1770 than Dampier had
been able to make of the western in 1688.
Like Cook, Dampier was a country-bred, lad
who became a fine seaman, and he possessed
the same insatiable curiosity as moved Banks to
go a-roving in the Endeavour. His early
travels landed him in the West Indies, and
there he found that the people who really saw
that part of the world were the pirates who
preyed on the Spanish colonies. He had no
particular liking tor “the trade,” as he calls
piracy, and sailed with them to see the world
rather than for the sake of loot. It was in
their company that he crossed the Isthmus of
Panama into the South Seas and then sailed
southward to the island of Juan Fernandez,
where he encountered three different men who
had been marooned there alone and were,
through his chronicles of their adventures, to
become models for Daniel Defoe’s Robinson
Crusoe. Then he went with his piratical friends
northward to Mexico, crossed over to the
Philippines and thence to Australia “to see what
that country could afford us.” He wrote an
account of the land and its people so interest-
ing that it put the unknown and semi-mythical
continent “on the map.”


ABORIGINALITIES
“Old-timer”: I see by the papers where
a Condobolin (N.S.W.) man, doing a bit
of fencing, heard, a clap of thunder in
a clear sky, followed by thumps as lumps
of meteorite plunged, smoking, into the
ground around him. The Condobolin
man appears to be used to that sort of
thing, for he finished what he was doing
before going to investigate. He’d have
been a sobering influence on Concertina,
who, with two mates, was heading out
of Euston (N.S.W.) one clear February
day in 1917 when there was a mighty
crack overhead and hunks of smoking
iron tore through the scrub. Concertina
dropped his swag and ran two miles
south to the river, plunged in and swam
to Victoria. When he staggered into
Manangatang next day, having battled
grimly over 30 waterless miles, he assured
the locals that “that flamin’ trooper in
Euston not only ordered me outa the
place but fired a blasted great cannon or
somethin’ after me.” His mates, having
guessed the cause of the bombardment,
gathered up some of the pieces and made
a good thing out of them as souvenirs in
Mildura.
* * * *
“Pick”: The scattered seeds from the
luxuriant crop of thistles which follow
the flooding of river flats don’t last long.
The first-comers generally are mountain
ducks, big, handsome birds, gaily uni-
formed in brown and yellow with blue
beaks and legs. They’re rarely in groups
of more than two or three; The mis-
named black ducks, brown really, follow
the mountaineers. They are fast fliers
and muster in large mobs. Next come
the wood duck with their mournful, long-
drawn note. By the time they’ve finished
there’s little left for the smaller foragers.
* * * *
“Arev”: Bill Jupp decided it was time
to clean out the well. “All you’ve got
to do,” he told the new hand, “is to go
down the rope and send up the silt in
the bucket. I’d go down myself only
I’m a bit heavy for the rope.” The new
hand looked down into the darkness.
“Could I have a torch?” he asked. Bill
sighed. “Where d’ you think we get torches
from? You can have the hurricane if
you want it.” Finally Bill got him started,
but the bucket had hardly touched bottom
when there was a frantic yell of “Let me
up; let me up.” Bill looked down.
“Gwan,” he said ; “there’s nothing to be
afraid of —not enough water to drown
a rabbit.” The white face of the new
hand could be seen, with wide eyes star-
ing upward. “Pull me up,” came the
terrified yell. “Quick!” Bill took the
handle and wound up the bucket. As
the hand stepped out Bill glared. “What
do you think you are? A land girl?
Afraid of the dark! You ought to be
ashamed of yourself. Here, you take
the handle. I’ll go down myself.” As
the bucket touched bottom there came
a howl from Bill to be pulled up again.
But the windlass was unoccupied. It
was about a minute later that the hand
returned. “Here, catch,” he yelled, and
a waddy came spearing down. “And
don’t hit the snake too hard, Mi. Jupp ;
1 want it as a specimen!”
* * * *
“Dedza”: The Territory is as fertile
in nicknames as the Golden West (B.
21/4/’43). Scandalous Jack, The Cow
and Calf (inseparables), Keep-it-dark,
Whatwhat, Terrible Billy (the meekest
chap I ever met), Whisky Willis, Soapy
Sam —who held a very high position in
the Administration —Billy the Pig,
Murray Cod, Gentle Annie (a prize-
“ Doesn't seem t ’ be nothin for you this mornin', Mrs. Duggan .”
fighter with an annihilating right) and The
Bar-strangled Spanner (he hailed from the
U.S.) are just a few. And women —
The Painted Lady, The Little Brown Hen,
The Argus Pheasant and The Shooting
Star.
“Herbert Dawson”: I’ll undertake to
find a nest of native bees (B. 31/3/ ’43)
inside half an hour in any ringbarked
area in this Upper Dawson country,
Queensland. Little black chaps, they’re
about the size of the smallest housefly.
* * * *
“B. A. Ker”: Paddy started something
when he punned on a “six-legged” horse
that had “fore” legs in front and two
behind. Bert said that the primitive
horse —a creature no bigger than a fox --
had five toes on each foot, and we were
off. “How many toes has a dog?” “Four
on each foot.” But there’s a small one
up the back of each foreleg. Five toes
on each fore and four on each back
leg was correct for a cat and, after a
lot of hesitation, a possum. A blue-
tongue lizard proved a poser, opinions
varying from 16 to 18 toes. A “bluey”
subsequently sacrificed to science was
found to have five toes on each foot. The
kid stumped us with a guinea-pig—four
toes per foreleg and three per hind. But
the real puzzler was Paddy’s “What
animal has more toes on its hind than
front feet?” When we’d exhausted most
of the animal kingdom he produced a
mouse and drawled “Count ’em.” Five
toes on each back leg and four on each
front.
* Jfc * #
“M.U.R.”: At most places where I’ve
had anything to do with working horses,
the team was generally under the domi-
nation of an ancient mare with all the
characteristics of a tyrant. At feeding
time she’d shove the others around, and
while they were waiting to be yoked in
the yard she’d be bossing them again.
Yet there’d be young, strong horses that
could have belted the tripe out of her.
It’s always the old mare who causes the
kicking and biting arid squealing, never
an old horse. And this isn’t always
because the old horse is generally a geld-
ing ; I’ve seen young entires bossed about
in the same way.
* * Jic *
“R. Ney”: Tell “Bad Australian” (B.
12/5/’43) that to Scotch-hobble human,
animal or bird all you have to do is put
a slit in the captive’s ear and shove his
hind leg through it. That’ll hold any-
thing.
* * * *
“Mat’s Mate”: Mat had been pros-
pecting the town. He came back to
where I was minding the swags with a
load of tucker and a pair of boots. Three
days later we hit Railwaytown on a
Saturday, so we got out clean shirts,
dolled ourselves tip and joined the crowd.
I left the big fellow and set off on the
trail of a fencing job, arranging to meet
him in a billiard saloon. When I got
back there was Mat, a couple of whis-
kered blokes desultorily playing billiards
and nobody else except the marker, who
sat across the room glowering at Mat.
“What cleaned the place out?” I asked
Mat. “Dunno,” he said ; “not long after
I came in most of the mob cleared and
that bloke” —indicating the sullen marker
—“started giviri me black looks. Now
you’re here I’m havin’ a crack at ’im.”
He started across. “Look, mate,” he said,
“you might have been born with that
look, but you might mean it for me. If
anythin’s bitin’ you, let’s have it.” The
marker looked a bit surprised. Then he
said: “Think you’re smart, don’t you,
tryin’ to trap a bloke for s.p. Well, you
ain’t smart enough, see. You should
have left y’r boots at home.” Mat looked
down and, as the light dawned, we sat
down against the wall and howled. The
boots had belonged to a John.
* * * #
“Jemalong Jim”: My apprenticeship
with the swag was served with an experi-
enced hand. He gave me the first lesson
as we approached a farm. “See them
dogs?” he asked. “Would you say they
was well fed?” They were as poor as
drought-stricken sheep and looked ready
to eat us. The old chap turned and made
for the road. “Never try for a handout
in a place where the animals are
starvin’,” he said. “If people won’t feed
their dogs you can bet they won’t feed
you.”
* * * *
“Eureka”: Cripes, I had an awful
dream last night. I dreamt the Man-
power flying squad that raided King’s
Cross swooped down on the Aboliars.
“B. A. Ker” was sent to Alice Springs
baking bread for the C.C.C. “Old-
timer” went as billy-boiler on the same
job, so he’ll be set for about 15 quid a
week. “Horseless Horseman” was passed
A 1 and transferred to the footsloggers.
“Snobby” used his influence to get a job
as a staff officer; “Mat’s Mate” went
into the army, too, as an officer’s bat-
man. “The 0.D.” would have landed a
good job in the intelligence department,
but he seemed to doubt everything any-
one else told him, so they had to give
him a pick and shovel. “Walkabout”
was passed into the R.A.A.F. “Soli-
tude” was sent north as a sniper, and
“Bohemian” went to gaol—he couldn’t
produce his identity card or show proof
that he was not connected with a night
club. I was just waking up as the Man-
power gang slipped over to “Society” and
found poor old Prendergast A.W.L.
* * * *
“Jumbuck”: So “Bill Davis” (B.
5/5/’43) could count 10,000 sheep an
hour through a 9£t. gate. I’ve seen some
great sheep counters, Henry Lamont and
Milo Pegler, of Queensland, for instance,
but I’ve never seen any of ’em take on
counting sheep through a 9ft. gate when
the correct tally was wanted. The reli-
able counter does his counting through a
gate just wide enough to permit of two or
three sheep jamming their way through
at a time, and he’s always got someone
.to keep the hundreds. I’ve counted up
to 22,000 straight off, and I was almost
as blind as a bat by the time the last
sheep had poked through, but I’d have
wagered I wasn’t ten sheep out in the
tally. A pack of cards for ticking off
the hundreds is a new one on me.
* * * *
“Jayem”: For some reason or other a
city newspaper sent one of its women
reporters to cover the show. She was
determined to interview someone, and
Long Harry looked a good subject as he
leaned against a post closely watching
the cattle judging. After an introduction,
the lass said “I suppose you’re interested
in stock?” “Yes,” said the long ’un, “I’ve
got about 2000 head.” “That seems a
big herd. What sort are they?” “Mostly
bees,” said Harry.
* * * *
“W.A.T.”: Lex McLennan’s verse (B.
17/3/’43) seeks information as to the
origin of the blue Queensland dogs. In
the ’sixties or ’seventies a settler named
Hall, near Merriwa (N.S.W.), mated a
dingo bitch with a Dalmatian dog. She
had blue-speckled and yellow-speckled
pups, and all turned out “heelers,” start-
ing first on the milkers. This was in the
boom droving days, when large mobs of
store bullocks were overlanded from
Queensland to Muswellbrook. The dogs
were taken back to Queensland by
drovers. The parents were constantly
mated while they lived, and Hall could
not breed enough of them. My father
got a pair and largely contributed to
their breeding and spreading throughout
both N.S.W. and Queensland; his son was
the first to introduce them into W.A., tak-
ing three of both sexes to Warrawagine,
where there were thousands of unbranded
cattle. The dogs did wonderful work and
we got plenty of orders for pups.
* * * *
“H.D.”: In country where bally
(Hereford) cattle are bred we refer to
one with spots on its face as a “broken-
faced bally.” “Checkle-faced” has an
unmistakable smack of the Old Dart.
* * * *
“Fowler’s Bay”: The reason why Eyre
was able to travel his sheep and horses
five or six days without water (B.
14/4/’43) was that he knew the value of
dew. His route was close to the sea and,
though almost rainless, had a heavy dew-
fall. Eyre carried a small sponge, and
before dawn he’d go round the scrub ; by
wiping and squeezing he’d gather a pint
or so which he shared with his com-
panions. He had a practised eye for
fodder likely to be both sustaining and
dew-saturated. On the night Baxter was
murdered he was away about a quarter
of a mile from the camp holding the
horses while they grazed on a patch of
vegetation selected for that reason.
# * * *
“H.W.S.”: You fishermen ought to see
the opening of the Shannon Rise. The
Shannon flows out of Great Lake, the
inland sea almost in the centre of the
Speck. For the first mile or so it runs
swiftly over a rocky bottom and then
opens out into a series of big shallow
lagoons, well stocked with rainbow
and brown trout up to 71b. in weight.
Millions of snow caddis live amongst
the rocks in the swiftly-running part of
the river. At the end of November or
early in December they rise to the sur-
face and change into small silver-grey
and black-speckled moths. On a sunny
day the river appears to be covered in a
haze, so numerous are the moths. The
trout crowd up into the narrow river to
gorge on the insects, and from the bridge
you can look down on thousands of big
trout sucking down the moths as they
float downstream. An expert can get
his bag (12 fish) before breakfast. The
rise lasts for several weeks, but after the
first fortnight the fish have learnt all
about artificial flies and are suspicious
of even the finest gut.
DROUGHT IN AUTUMN.
I think the clock of the rain has stopped
forever,
The silver clock, standing silent, so terribly still,
On the shelf of the year where glittering white
gums sever
The shadow and send lights rippling over the
sill
Of the gully. The fluent bracken flexes and
arches
Its russet back and purrs in the sun and sleeks
Itself in the drouth, while the grey scrub pants
and parches
And aches for the shining loss of its singing
creeks.
Blackened by grub, old wattles bow scarred
shoulders,
Dreaming perhaps of the days when their sap
was young,
When the rush of their gold dripped honey
among the boulders
And the greedy moss lapped it up with an
emerald tongue.
It’s a long time now since I heard the rain
clock ticking,
Urging its bright hands on —it’s a long, long
time
Since I woke in the quickening dark with my
pulses pricking
To the slow exquisite beat of a truant chime.
Paddocks are blanched to twine, and the lean
briars tearing
Each other’s flanks to berried blood with their
claws;
Starlings are loud with trouble, wildly despair-
ing
Of the arid, joyless clusters of withered haws;
The dim youth ploughing the long roan slope
is only
Something I dreamed when the dawn broke
red as rust —
The dim youth guiding his dim team, unreal,
lonely,
Lost in a whirling chaos Qf titian dust;
And the plovers breaking above him, flashing,
turning,
Crying like water, skirling like torrents cast
Along farm orchards where gnarled old pear-
trees burning
Flare in the errant winds as they flicker "past.
And May looks on dry-eyed with the bitter
aloes
Of frost on her breath in the diamond-clear
cold light
Of dawn, when an icy calm folds the naked
fallows;
And only the lark finds courage to shatter the
bright
Still silence. Where are the silvery silks and
Of mushrooms, or opal pools where the
parrots preen ?
The animal warmth of the hollow fades and
flattens;
The gold of gorse is the ghost of what it has
been.
Only the crickets have faith, and they never
waver
From chanting their incantations the autumn
long,
Charming the clock of the rain with crotchet
and quaver,
Oiling the stubborn wheels with a feather ot
song.
TASMANIA.
NORMA L. DAVIS.


“ That’s the new gunner keeping in shape for the football match.”
“Midge”: Henare was being inter-
viewed regarding one of the endless series
of official forms. His name, place of
birth, age and date of marriage had been
filled in without much trouble. Then
came the number of children. “Put down
six of ’em,” said Henare. The official
glanced back at the form. “But you’ve
only been married three years,” he
remarked. “Did your wahine have twins
or triplets?” “No,” said Henare. It
appeared that the nippers had arrived
singly, and they’d all been bom since
the marriage. “But that’s impossible,”
protested the official. “You couldn’t pos-
sibly have six in three years one by one.”
Henare looked at his interlocutor
earnestly. “Oh, yes, t’at’s all right, boss.
Te wife’s sister, she help too!”
* * * *
“Golly”: I found a hard-boiled egg
inside a hen. Yes, that’s right. I’d killed
her for the table, and in cleaning her
dragged out the yolk of an egg cooked
in its normal shape and hard as any egg
that’s been boiled for ten minutes. Bits
of shell still adhered to it; the egg, ready
to be laid, had somehow been broken,
the white had run out and the heat of
the bird’s body had cooked the yolk.
* * * *
“Steam Tinker”: Can’t agree that the
boiler of a sinking ship would not explode
because the safety valves would open.
A ship either turns turtle or goes down
by plunging either fore or aft. Either
action must tear the boilers from their
beds. I should like to see the installation
that can be "so dislodged and dumped
through bulkheads, complete with pipe-
work, injectors, turbines, condensers, etc.,
without there being a mighty burst of
suddenly released steam which would
make the ordinarily noisy blow-off of the
safety valve sound less than a breath.
“Koot”: We blame it all on the story
of the knot-pusher at Je.parit (B.
21/4/’43) who was offered a fiver to play
the organ for a few minutes. Just now
the town is swarming with bagmen, all
of whom claim to be organ virtuosi, and
all of whom pester the clergy with offers
of assistance at a fiver a time, with a
pound down to seal the bargain.
* * * *
“Big Blow”: Those camel trains that
“Oxmead” (B. 14/4/’43) saw between
Geraldton and Mullewa in 1893 prob-
ably belonged to Faiz Mahomet, who in-
troduced the oonts to the W.A. goldfields.
Later Faiz was joined by his younger
brother Tagh. Tagh was a livewire, the
Sheik of Araby in actual life, tall, power-
fully built, handsome and with the finest
set of white teeth imaginable. Fie real-
ised that transport depended largely on
water supply, and along most well-tra-
velled routes he established wells and
condensers, supplying his own oonts at
cost and making a bit on the side selling
water to others. Tagh was a patron of
athletics, wrestling and boxing. Any pug
or grappler could get a job with him
irrespective of color. He came to
a violent end ; someone got him with a
bullet in the Coolgardie mosque at dawn
of a January day in 1896.
“Raeside Soak”: The date of Pat
Green’s great camel march (B. 14/4/’43)?
He left Bourke June 18, 1894, arrived
Coolgardie November 3 ; 18 weeks and
four days all told. Here’s the itinerary.
From Bourke west to Milparinka, 250
miles approximately, then to Farina in
S.A., making the westward step 700 miles ;
south to Port Augusta, 170 miles, then
across the head of the Bight to Israelite
Bay in W.A. Here they waited a while
for the ship Verulum, and loaded up with
her stores. The oonts set out on the last
leg of the journey each carrying a load
of about 6001 b. The way led them to
Port Malcolm, Fraser’s Range, Lake
Lefroy and Coolgardie. Coolgardie un-
corked the three-per-cents., and Pat Green
was given a civic reception.
* * * *
“Narrin”: They say you can’t tell a
fool or a newchum anything, but here
goes for one last try. When Murnpeowie
station, S.A., was running horses of the
Frenchman blood, the overseer and his
brother —name and address to n receipt of
stamped envelope—made a tidy cheque
out of ’roo skins. Almost without excep-
tion the ’roos were shot from the backs
of galloping horses with .32 automatic
pistols. Old “Mumpy” hands will corro-
borate that as they would my original
statement on which “90 Mile” (B.
28/4/’43) has erected such a tower of
Babel.
* * * *
“Padfiogger”: Is there any other vege-
table as versatile as the potato? Boiled
in its jacket it is tasty and full of vita-
mins. Peeled and boiled it can be eaten
as a sidedish meal after meal without
palling on the appetite. Boiled and
mashed it becomes the fit companion of
sausages, chops, steak and stew, and just
boiled with a few scraps of meat it’s Irish
stew. Cold boiled left-overs fried in a
greased pan until the underside begins
to toast make a good breakfast. Bake
spuds with the joint in a camp-oven and
you have a vegetable fit for a king, or
in the ashes with the skins on and you
have the tastiest supper for a cold night.
Cut into wedges and cooked in boiling
fat they make chips ; into thin slices and
tossed into boiling fat, vegetable bal-
loons, crisp outside and mealy within.
Potato slices fried until brittle are un-
beatable as biscuits for nibbling along
the track. In summertime Murphy can be
boiled lightly at breakfast and at lunch
sliced, treated with vinegar or lemon
juice to go with lettuce, tomato, onion
or what have you as a salad. If after
that you’re fed up with spuds, cut to
apple-shaped wedges, grout with sugar,
add a good dash of ship’s limejuice, then
bake the lot wider a crust and you have a
tiptop apple pie.
* * * *
“Zake”: The too-scrupulously-hygienic
cook can be a curse right enough. Ours
washed his hands about 20 times a day,
and the boys estimated that he used fifty
gallons a day washing the vegetables. The
duff* rags had to be boiled for half an
hour and nobody dared lean on the table
with the bare elbow. Before the hygiene
fiend’s arrival we had had a succession
of rough-and-ready babblers, and though
the h.f. was a good cook somehow his
cabbage and spinach were never quite up
to the mark. It was Bilfy the Sheik, a
bloke given to thinking in corners for
long intervals, who discovered what was
lacking. One day when the bab was over
at the woodheap he sneaked in and
dropped a small handful of grit into the
cabbage pot. That day at dinner the mob
asked for more cabbage for the first time
in five weeks.
*** * .
“N.”: In defending the “bushman’s
sense of direction,” “Old-timer” (B.
7/4 / ’43) claims that it is “a sort of inner
knowledge of the lie of the land, an inner
vision of the whole country.” Actually,
it is just plain geographical knowledge
of the sort the baby> acquires from the
moment it begins to crawl. In the bush-
man’s case that store of knowledge is
very quickly picked up in a new district,
but it is still specialised knowledge, not
any mystidal “sense.” In common with
hundreds of other saddle-polishers, I can
say that I have never been bushed, in the
sense of not being able to find my way
home. When I make a train journey in
strange country it is physical features I
remember —creeks, hills, good or rough
paddocks, the set of sandhills —not names
of towns ; and in a city I can store away
the look of a street but have to think
to remember the name. All of which
indicates a map-making mental habit, and
suggests why so many town-dwellers can
get bushed in a vacant suburban allot-
ment.
“Nor’-west”: Bushmen aren’t the only
ones gifted with the sense of direction.
Some sailormen have it too. When start-
ing back from 15 to 20 miles out it isn’t
easy without a compass to strike a river-
mouth, 100 yards wide in a coastline
100 miles long, but my old skipper could
do it every time by landmarks and the
general aspect of the coast and the sea.
He’d do even better on the way out.
Snapper like rocks and reefs. The skipper
carried in his mind’s eye an undersea
map of dozens of these, and he could
drop right on to any one he fancied.
When he sold the old 35-footer the buyer,
a river and estuary fisherman, made the
proviso that he should be shown the loca-
tion of all the old man’s rocks and reefs.
“Fetch a couple of blokes with you,” the
old man advised, and he spent a couple
of weeks taking the crew out and show-
ing them just where.- But the old boat
goes out no more. After six months of
poor catches the buyer returned to his
estuaries; neither he nor his crew ever
found a quarter of the old man’s possies,
though the skipper swears that he wore
himself to a shadow trying to teach them.
z** * *
“C.E.”: “The city!” Joe scoffed.
“Cripes, a cove can’t move down there
without the whole place knowin’ his busi-
ness. Take old Tick-em-off, f’r instance.
He nodded at a horseman on the road.
“In the city he wouldn’t be able to go
round to Murphy’s like he’s gom’ with-
out the whole street gawkin’ at ’im. Not
that I’m against Tick servin’ a bluey on
young Murph, ’cause I reckon the fool
deserves it. On’y made ninety-five quid
last year out of them wethers he had in
the lower paddock, an’ all on account of
bein’ overrun with rabbits. Owes money,
too, be the look of his mail. But he’s
been ridin’ north a bit lately, so it looks
like he’s trackin’ old Shearem’s daughter.
An’ I’ll bet she’ll have him in preference
to any city coot, too. She likes the life
out here, Mary does —free an’ easy, an’
the sort of place where a bloke can live
private.”
* * * *
“Eureka”: If you don’t fancy it, it’s
easy enough to remove the wild taste
from any bush bird or auimal. Rabbit,
hare, bandicoot, young or any-
thing, dress it and clean it and wrap
it in a clean cloth, then bury it a foot
or so in the ground. Watch the dogs
don’t find it, and leave it there for at
least 12 hours before digging it up to
cook.
* * s= *
“Newman”: During the last war The
Bulletin held a competition for Aus-
tralian nursery rhymes. How excellent
was the entry may be judged by
two facts: one, that I can remember
it after the lapse of 25 years without hay-
ing seen it or had it brought to mind in
the meantime, and the other that my son
aged seven on hearing it was able to
repeat it a fortnight later. This was it:
The man from Mungundi was counting sheep,
He counted so many he fell asleep;
He counted by one and he counted by twos
The rams, the lambs, the wethers, the ewes;
He counted three thousand three hundred and
ten
And when he awoke had to count them again!
* * * *
“B-gar”: In the days when shepherd-
ing was usual even on large sta-
tions, the best and most conscientious
shepherds were Chinamen. John always
had the sheep out of the brake at day-
light and he’d get them quickly on to the
best food. When he brought them back
for yarding at sundown full bellies told
how they’d fared.
“It says here there's a circus in town."
SALUTE TO A FISH.
This country don’t appreciate the good old
Murray cod,
A dinkum sort of Aussie fish whose ways are
never odd.
He mooches round the river beds or loafs in
billabongs
And listens to the whalers’ yarns and never airs
his wrongs—
Though he’s got plenty, bet your life, and
perils, too, no end,
Dodging drum-nets, hooks and spinners from
the Hume to Tailem Bend.
Of great and lesser fishes, from the Barwon to
the Fall,
He’s the Riverina Royalty, the daddy of ’em all.
He dodges round the river and don’t trouble
any man,
Sittin’ lazy in a sun-w'armed hole to let his
side-fins fan.
He does no howling in the night, nor worrying
of sheep;
He won’t come creeping up and eat the crops
when you’re asleep;
He doesn’t raid the orchards, and he’s no
fencing pest;
He won’t come up the bank some night and
coil up on your chest.
Just a decent, unassuming bloke who never
starts a brawl,
He’s the Riverina Royalty, the daddy of ’em all.
And if you get him on your hook he doesn’t
try to strafe,
Or prance around and jump and try to bite
your arm in half,
But takes it fatalistic like, with calm and
dignity, ,
Unlike the ill-bred larrikins that live out in
the sea.
He’s our piscatorial emblem; no foreign stream
can boast
The wide-mouthed, speckled champion that all
the whalers toast
And feature in their river yarns—some true,
some mighty tall—
Of the Riverina Royalty, the daddy of ’em all.
N.S.W.
OLD-TIMER.


FOR MINERAL MIXTURES AND LICKS
FOR CATTLE
c 7u- G&J&
BONE FLOUR
TO REMEDY PHOSPHORUS DEFICIENCY
IN PASTURES AND FODDER.
AH particulars froirf:—
DAVIS GELATINE, G.P.O. BOX 35835, SYDNEY ;
G.P.O. BOX 4058, MELBOURNE.
Australian, Mercantile, Land & Finance
Company, Limited
(INCORPORATED IN ENGLAND IN 1863)
WOOL, FAT STOCK, STORE AND STUD STOCK,
PRODUCE AND PROPERTY SALESMEN
General Manager for Australia: R. SINCLAIR SMITH.
ADVANCES MADE ON GRAZING PROPERTIES, ON STOCK, AND ON
CONSIGNMENTS OF WOOL, SKINS, HIDES, TALLOW, ETC.
ALSO AT
GENERAL
LICENSED AUCTIONEERS, STOCK AND STATION AGENTS.
SYDNEY OFFICE: A. M. MURDOCH, Manager.
MELBOURNE, BRISBANE, NEWCASTLE, WAGGA, HENTY, HAY, MOREE,
TOWNSVILLE, CHARLEVILLE. BUENOS AIRES, LONDON.
AGENTS IN NEW SOUTH WALES FOR NORTHERN ASSURANCE CO.. LTD.
THE MAN ON
THE LAND
"DON'T WORRY. I'M SENDING IT TO
GRAZCOS."
Wool and the Future.
“R. Ney”: Winchcombe, Carson’s
annual review points out that wool
production in the major exporting coun-
tries Australia, Maoriland, South
Africa, Argentina and Uruguay—has
increased by about 500,000 bales since
the war began. The increase and the
big stocks accumulated have to be
measured against the small stocks held
by mills and rapid disappearance in war-
affected countries of manufactured
fabrics and clothing. The demand for
replacement after the war may use up all
the wool then available, but there is likely
to be a period when wool will be plenti-
ful but clothing scarce, since the wool on
hand will exceed the consumptive ability
of the mills.
The co. sees scope for expansion in
wool consumption in Russia and China.
War, despite its ill effects, has proved
almost revolutionary in its influence on
the Chinese outlook... .Munition factories
have been established in centres which
previously did not know modern industrial
life. Airports are now located in parts of
China once considered remote The
Chinese army has learned the advantages
of wool for clothing. Russia has received
enormous quantities of uniform materials
from Great Britain, and in post-war times
much greater trade is likely in mill pro-
ducts or wool with both nations.
On the question of substitutes, Ameri-
can investigations show that, despite the
stupendous increase in radons in the
U.S.A., the proportion of raw wool used
in American worsted and woollen mills
has hardly varied. Taken by and large,
Australia’s wool industry should hold its
own after the war, though a jump in
population to about 20,000,000 people
would give it a tremendous fillip.
tK
Drenching.
“Jumbuck”: Main errors associated
with drenching are:
0) Delaying treatment instead of dos-
ing in the early stages of infestation.
(2) Ignorance of the type of parasites,,
which means using a drench that may-
have little or no effect.
(3) Drenching once only under the
impression that the parasites have been
cleared out —for stomach worms sheep
must be dosed again seven to ten days
after the first dose and at monthly inter-
vals after that.
(4) Returning sheep after drenching to
heavily worm-infested paddocks.
(5) Misapplication of the drenching
gun or funnel, combined with an over-
dose of the mixture.
(6) Drenching by way of the mouth for
lung worms—the white or reddish-brown
lung worms can be reached only by an
injection into the windpipe with a hypo-
dermic syringe.
A Useful Annual.
“Fielder”: Commonly known as seed
canary grass and closely related to
Phalaris tuherosa, the perennial, P.
canadensis is a quick-growing annual that
germinates well., All stock relish it, and
feeding value is high. Some N.S.W.
North Coast farmers say it’s better winter
feed than oats or rye, and on the Darling
Downs it’s used for grain or grazing. On
roughly-prepared land canary grass often
does better than prairie grass.
Basaltic soils and warm climates suit
it best. Sown now, it will be eight to
ten inches high and ready for grazing in
six Weeks’ time. Don’t graze it earlier.
Stock may wreck the stands by pulling
up the roots or cropping too closely.
Subdivide the paddocks. Let the stock
into large areas and they will avoid the
taller growth and trample it down. Just
how many grazings can be got from the
one sowing till the end of October de-
pends on how the grass is used. If feed-
ing is carefully controlled, one grazing
should be possible every three weeks.
When the seed is drilled in, 91b. per
acre is sufficient. Add a dressing of lcwt.
of superphosphate per acre at sowing and
follow up with two dressings of fcwt.
each of sulphate of ammonia after the
first and third grazings.
Foot Troubles in Cattle.
“Hux”: The horn of the sole is thinner
than that of the horse, and the horn of
the hind feet is thinner again than that
at the front. Nails, etc., pierce them
easily, inflammation sets in and discharge
breaks out at the coronet.
Trim the horn well away from the
wo|ind. If it’s under-run with pus, cut
“ ’Ow many coupons I’ shoe me ’ orse ?”
right down to the sensitive structures.
Clean the pus out, bathe in warm water
and poultice for 48 hours with either bran
or antiphlogistine. Renew every 12 hours.
If the wound’s still unhealthy try hot
foot baths and dress with linseed oil.
If “foul of the foot” appears watch
the herd. Several animals are usually
attacked at a time. This trouble has all
the appearance of a suppurating boil with
a core and needs poulticing till the core’s
out. After that treat with fomentations.
Irritants such as wet bedding or mud
cause dermatitis in the space between the
claws. The skin gets hot and tender and
lameness sets in. Give the animal a dry
box, clean the feet and smear the part
with zinc oxide night and morning.
Chronic dermatitis sets up granulations or
wartlike growths. These fade out if
copper or zinc sulphate is applied early ;
let them develop and they’ll need cutting
out.
Fever in the feet is mostly caused by
lengthy travelling. Give the animals a
dose of Epsom salts and a soft litter.
When a creek’s handy let them stand in
it. Heavy cattle with bruised feet as a
result of long road journeys need rest.
Deformity of claws is mostly found
in bulls and is due to lack of exercise.
Use a rasp to remove the overgrowth.
For cracked or brittle hoofs mix a dress-
ing of lib. mutton fat, lib. Stockholm
tar, lib. resin, lib. yellow wax and lib.
castor oil; apply two or three times a
week.
Salt.
“Farmer Bill”: All stock need it when
the salt content* of the water falls below
one in 1000. While there are sufficient
quantities of other minerals in ordinary
foods, most concentrates, conserved
roughages and pasture plants are low in
salt.
For cows allow 0.750 z. daily for every
10001 b. weight* and add 0.30 z. for each
101 b. of milk. Mixed with concentrates,
lib. to every 1001 b. is enough. Calves
need salt licks as soon as they get on to
grain. Beef cattle want it loose or in
rock form —in spring and early summer
per head per month, Cut to lib. or
Hlb. per month later in the season.
For working horses loz. daily—2olb.
per annum —covers digestive needs and
makes good the salt lost through per-
spiration. Place it in sheltered boxes and
let the horses have all they want.
Taken on the liveweight, sheep con-
sume more salt than do beef or dairy
cattle. Ewes need from ioz, to daily.
Given too much, sheep or calves may
scour badly and milk of dairy cows or
ewes be reduced in quantity and quality.
Pigs eat less salt than do other animals,
but added to the ration it makes a dif-
ference in growth. Mix 41b. of powdered
limestone qr ehalk and lib. of salt and
add 31b. of it to every 1001 b. of dry
feed.
Swamp Cancer.
“Sarina”: It’s mostly met with among
horses running on badly-drained or
marshy country, an external growth
about the size of a man’s fist, hard and
tough to the touch and raw and angry
in appearance. There’s nothing can-
cerous about it really ; it’s caused by a
worm that lives in the horse’s innards,
invading a sore or wound anywhere on
the body. The nag aggravates the trouble
by biting or rubbing the part. Neglect
the growth and it will probably lead to
death.
If the growth is attached to the body
by a stalk, a ligature tied as near to the
body as possible will cause it to die and
fall off in a short time. Paint the stump
with tincture of iodine. Another method
is to throw the horse and remove the
growth with a sterilised razor or knife.
Do not operate if there is any danger
of cutting important blood-vessels.
If removal is impossible, treat the
growth with tincture of iodine. Syringe
it into any holes in the growth. If there’s
no improvement within a few days, throw
the nag and run a red-hot iron into the
lump. This will kill the worm or worms.
Afterwards treat with tincture of iodine
and protect from dust and flies.
Sweet Potatoes.
“Plane Creek”: They’ll yield 20 tons
an acre under good conditions. They
like best a warm climate, plenty of
water and a deep soil rich in phosphoric
acid and potash ; go easy on nitrogenous
manures. In frost-free areas they can
be planted at any time, and they’re ready
for digging five or six months from plant-
ing.
Two or three months before planting
put 50 sound “bucks” in a bed of friable
soil to produce vines from which to take
cuttings. Plough the land and raise it
in banks or ridges 2ft. apart and 18in.
high. Plant 9in. terminal cuttings 6in.
apart along the ridges. Turn the runners
back on to the ridges as the vines grow.
Sweet-potato weevil is the worst pest.
When it’s preying on the vines, spray
them with a 1-40 solution of arsenate of
lead. To prevent weevils laying eggs in
them store the tubers in clean, sound
sacks immediately after digging.
Hints for the Farm.
“Sheepo”: Some plants are sudden
death to sheep if eaten when the animals
are empty. Drovers and owners should
know dangerous plants in various locali-
ties. The danger period is the first two
hours after sheep have been let out of
yard or brake after being held all night.
Keep them clear of suspected plants until
their bellies are full.
“A.N.M.”: After they’re shorn keep
rams away from ewes for at least four
to five weeks. Before joining give every
ram an overhaul for fly-strike, and hold
any victims until the wound has healed.
Rams won’t work if troubled with mag-
gots. Watch the base of the horns, and
always apply some blowfly repellent about
the head and horns before the rams join
the ewes.
Build the pen for sick pigs
on lower ground than the piggery, and
at least 150 feet away from it, then drain-
age won’t seep through to the main sties.
If built in paddocks where healthy pigs
wander, protect it with a good stout
fence.
“Jindi”: Convert selected logs into pig
troughs with an adze. Avoid logs with
large knots and do not cut to the required
length until next spring, then saw off the
spare timber at each end. It will avoid
damage by splitting while drying.
“Agro”: Every farm that runs chooks
should have a lucerne patch. Lucerne
grows very quickly after being cut. Chop
it up finely and feed it alone or in the
mash. If there is an abundance of
lucerne chop it and dry for use later on,
when it can be mixed with hot water and
added to bran and pollard mash, boiled
wheat, 'etc.
“Molecule 1 ”: Isolate growing pullets
from the laying flock. Ground pre-
viously occupied by adult birds requires
thorough liming and the planting of a
crop, plus a good spell, before it is fit
to carry young stock. The cleanest and
healthiest of adult birds are carriers of
disease and parasites to growing stock.
“H.C.”: Tests by E. W. Pritchard,
agricultural botanist of S.A., show that
it’s not necessary to produce fresh seed
of all veges. each season. Eight years
after harvesting, greenfeast beans gave
67 p.c. germination. From 85 p.c. to
90 p.c. of the seed of other bean varieties
proved fertile up to the sixth year. Ten-
and 11-year-old tomato seed produced
60 p.c. to 65 p.c. good seedlings. Cab-
bage-seed germination was profitable
from two to four years, rock melons up
to 12 years, turnips and lettuce to three
years and radishes to seven years.
QUESTIONS ANSWERED.
(Transferred from Service Department.)
My Black Orpington fowls have a scale
round the eyes. Cause and cure ?
The birds are probably affected with favus.
or “white comb,’" a contagious disease caused
by a fungus. Its main effect is to spoil the
appearance of the fowl and perhaps cause
some minor loss in condition. The scaly
material should be softened with soap and
warm water, and as much of it as possible
scrubbed off. By means of a toothbrush a
solution of one drachm of salicylic acid in
lfoz. of methylated spirits should be scrubbed
into the affected areas. Tincture of iodine is
also effective at times, as is a 5 p.c. solution
of resorcinol. Some ointments may also be
used with success. Salicylic acid ointment 10
p.c. and red mercuric oxide ointment 10 p.c.
are both suitable.


ITJ
\a>Wy
£ W e
is
l\\e
tot
eta
tftC
tue
etp
aa
i^er
£o* ce
atv
S&
less
£*W
Navy
Navy
haa*
V
The FISK RADIOLA
AUSTRALIA’S FINEST BROADCAST RECEIVER
When Victory is ours, the Fisk
Radiola, will again be available
throughout Australia. . . Until
then, your local Radiola Dis-
tributor will gladly service your .
present Radiola.
AMALGAMATED WIRELESS (A'sio) lid.
Australia’s National Wireless Organisation
BUY £lO NATIONAL SAVINGS BONDS & WAR SAVINGS CERTIFICATES
~ r
HE£hM:
HOTEL GRAND CENTRAL
151 CLARENCE STREET, facing G.P.0., SYDNEY.
,Mo accommodation available for May or June, 1943
G. C. C. McKAY, Manager.
UNCABLED ADDITIONS
Handicapped MacArthur.
(N.Y. "Journal-American” comment.)
It was the part of wisdom to transfer
General Mac Arthur to Australia, where
his exceptional capacities could be uti-
lised. But it is regrettable that equal
wisdom has not ruled the subsequent
policies regarding General MacArthur.
He has been left ill-equipped and
undermanned in Australia, exactly as he
was in the Philippines. In spite of mass
production and mass mobilisation in the
United States, he has been denied the
supplies and men necessary for a mass
offensive against the Japanese.
He has accomplished Herculean,
almost miraculous, results with the little
at hand, as he did in the Philippines—
but always with discouragement and
desperation dogging his heels, and always
with a sense of frustration.
Why must this efficient and brilliant
American commander always be com-
pelled to fight with so little? He is
opposing one of the most powerful mili-
tary nations on earth, and one of the
best armed and best manned. He has
made valorous but slow and painful
advances against the Japanese, has saved
Port Darwin in Australia and Port
Moresby in New Guinea and has
recovered the Province of Papua.
But the thought that is in every
American’s mind is that a commander
who has done so much with so little
could have changed the whole course of
the Pacific war by now and should have
been armed and manned to do so.
The Promise to Russia.
[Condensed from an article by Forrest Davis,
Washington correspondent of the “Saturday
Evening Post,” giving “hitherto undisclosed
facts regarding . the Roosevelt-Churchill
promise to Russia to open up a second front.]
The President and Winston Churchill,
at New Year, 1942, made Stalin a
promise to open a second European land
front before the year was out. It was a
well-meant pledge, secret and realistic
from the point of view of the two leaders,
but it was to haunt them through many
months of uphill war, rankling Stalin—
who predicated his summer strategy on
it and damaging United Nations’ good
feeling until the North African landings
redeemed it in part.
Delivered orally to Litvinov in the
Oval study of the White House, the
promise was, strictly speaking, not one
but two. For, though the President made
a firm commitment, with no ifs, ands or
buts, the Prime Minister, a dogged pessi-
mist more closely acquainted with the
hazards of war, qualified his obligation
in line with the military exigencies as
they should develop.
The promised task seemed to Mr.
Roosevelt, in January, 1942, a moderate
and reasonable assignment. The Atlantic
Powers, as he saw it, had a full calen-
dar year in which to deliver. The aston-
ishing blueprint for war-time industrial
expansion which he was about to an-
nounce filled him with heart. Churchill
was gloomy about the shipping situation,
as the President soon would be, and the
Far Eastern picture was not too bright,
although Bataan, Corregidor and Singa-
pore still stood and Burma and the main
Dutch islands were uninvaded. In justice
to the President, it should be pointed
out that the promise antedated the Battle
of the Atlantic —the disastrous U-boat
campaign which for six months was to
sink hundreds of Allied merchantmen off
America’s coasts —ships which might
otherwise have been used for an inva-
sion of Europe. Mr. Roosevelt, custom-
arily sanguine, often exuberant, will con-
cede today that Ahe promise was a bit
on the impromptu side.
It can be no secret that, while United
States-Soviet understanding before the
North African landings lacked something
m completeness, the entente between
Moscow and London had been definitely
strained. It was Roosevelt who moder-
ated the negotiations concluding the
Anglo-Soviet treaty. It was Roosevelt
who fathered the North African second
front and Roosevelt who refereed the
second-front dispute itself as far as pos-
sible. The President also effectually
blocked Moscow’s demand for advance
acknowledgment of claims to the terri-
tories in the Baltic area, the Carpathians
and the Danube delta obtained by Stalin
through his treaty with Hitler in 1939.
Despite that blockade of the Kremlin’s
desires, Russian displeasure fell more
heavily on the British than the American
Government. Churchill was the author
of Britain’s pro-Russian policy in June,
1941. Britain lived up to her supply
commitments at least as abundantly as
the United States. The sympathy of the (
British public was lavished on the hard-'
pressed Russians as heartily as the Ameri-
can. Yet Stalin consistently turned to-
ward Roosevelt rather than Churchill.
One of the big reasons was, of course,
the difference of warmth the two men
exhibited in making the January promise.
In reality, there seems no ground for
believing that Churchil[ was any less keen
for an invasion of Europe than Roose-
velt. And, although the Atlantic Powers
were unable to redeem the promise to
the letter, the record of their effort sup-
ports no charge of* bad faith. From
January to June, when the North Afri-
can expedition finally was resolved upon,
the President and Prime Minister, with
their military advisers, explored every
means of fulfilling the pledge. Each
mile of the European coast from the
North Cape to the Bay of Biscay was
diligently studied, with a view to its use
as an invasion foothold.
The January promise, made without
benefit of close military calculations, was
referred at once to the chiefs of the
armed services, American and British.
Early in March the combined chiefs re-
ported to the White House and Downing
Street that they saw no hope of a success-
ful invasion of Europe before the spring
of 1943. Roosevelt and Churchill, con-
ferring by telephone, bade the staffs re-
check their findings. Toiling overtime
in the Public Health Building in Wash-
ington, the generals and admirals, with
their experts, re-examined their calcula-
tions, conning ship losses, studying cumu-
lative weather reports and striking new
balances in aircraft, ordnance, supply
and man-power. The great bottleneck
was shipping.
A month later the military chiefs
brought in a report even less encourag-
ing. They advised the President and
Prime Minister against undertaking a
frontal move on the European Continent
before the midyear of 1943. Reminding
the military that the promise called for
action in 1942, Roosevelt packed Mar-
shall, with Harry Hopkins, off to London
for a further estimate. Out of the talks
of the Americans with the Prime Minis-
ter and the British military leaders came
the conviction that any attempt to strike
in force across the Channel or North
Sea in 1942 would be disastrous. No
responsible statesman in London or
Washington thereafter regarded a second
European front as more than a dim pos-
sibility. The judgment of the military
was too well supported by factual evi-
dence.
A ray of hope was, however, opened.
On the evening before the Americans
were to return, British staff men dug out
of their files a plan for invading French
North Africa which had been gathering
dust for months. The Americans brought
a copy of this tactical calculation home.
During May the broad outlines of a
North African offensive were sketched
by the President, Marshall, King and
Arnold and the Combined Staffs. Roose-
velt invited Churchill to revisit Washing-
ton, so that the decision might be
promptly concerted. The Prime Minis-
ter, arriving on June 18, assented at
once. There remained only the colossal,
four-month task of organising the expe-
dition.
U.S.-Soviet Relations.
(From a N.Y. "World-Telegram” Washington
correspondent’s column.)
One thing after another has arisen to
cloud relations between the British and
Americans on the one hand, and Soviet
Russia on the other.
On Feb. 22 Premier Stalin told his
countrymen that “the Red Army alone
is bearing the whole weight of the war.”
On the same day Soviet Ambassador
Maisky announced caustically in London
that the Soviet expected a speedy fulfil-
ment of the decisions taken at Casa-
blanca. Before that, Premier Stalin
Japart is still'vulnerable. If hit hard
enough sqon enough, Japan can be
knocked out. Japan lives by shipping.
Her shipping is spread dangerously thin
right now. But time is definitely on the
side of Japan. Time is on our side in
Europe; it is running against us in the
Pacific. Never again are we likely to
have such an opportunity to accomplish
so much with so little as we now have
in the Pacific. Doubling our effort in
the Pacific, which would mean turning
the tide against Japan, would require
only the barest fraction of total output
and war effort as a whole. The military
in the Pacific, for instance, are not ask-
ing for airplanes by the thousands, but
only by the hundreds. What comprises
a few days’ shipments to other fronts
represents months of supplies reaching
the South-west Pacific. — U.S. Congress-
man Melvin J. Maas.
turned down the pressing invitations of
President Roosevelt and Prime Minister
Churchill to attend the North African
conference, and before that there was
bitter criticism in Moscow against Britain
and America for not opening up a second
front in 1942. And so on.
The first major move in the foreign
field made by President Roosevelt was
to invite the Kremlin to send a represen-
tative to Washington with a view to Rus-
sian recognition. Mr. Roosevelt said it
was no concern of ours [Americans] what
kind of Government the Russians had.
If they liked it, it was all right with us.
All we asked in return was that Moscow
should concede to us the same privilege
of living our own way. On that basis
the two countries resumed diplomatic
relations in November, 1933.
The two men who negotiated that pact
were Roosevelt and Litvinov. The under-
standing was pretty sweeping. Russia
pledged herself to forgo propaganda
against our institutions, to grant religious
freedom to our nationals in that country,
and other things besides. Relations be-
tween the two countries then seemed to
be closer than at almost any time before
or since.
What is needed now, it is widely felt
here, is a reimplementation of the Roose-
velt-Litvinov spirit for the duration and
after. But it takes at least two to make
an agreement, and thus far the wooing
of Moscow by Washington and London
has been a mighty one-sided affair.
Divided South Africa.
(From an article by London "Times” Cape-
town correspondent.)
No true appraisal of South Africa’s
war effort is possible unless the fact is
held in mind that it is a divided country,
General Smuts has a majority in Parlia-
ment, but not an overwhelming majority.
We cannot therefore have conscription
here, and we cannot call on the people as
a whole to bear the sacrifices willingly
borne by the united peoples of Britain,


w»v
m
m
: tm
«j^®5
9 fbddmmmium
Oidsfuj
The lives of our fighting forces throughout the world —in the air
on the seas —in the front line, and the success of our-cause, rest
not only on the quantity of munitions produced but on their de-
pendability. Rootes peace-time standards of precision construc-
tion stands them in good stead—equipping the armies of democ-
racy so that we may humble and destroy the enemies of freedom.
In the days to come, closest industrial co-operation
within the British Commonwealth of Nations will help
to solve our mutual post-war problems.
Resident Representative: C. H. Hordern, 472 Bourke Street, Melbourne.
MANUFACTURERS OF
CARS:
Humber ♦ Hillman •> Sunbeam-Talbot
COMMERCIAL VEHICLES:
Commer * Harrier
k
Mi
Ml
10 for 1/1
20 for 2/2
MADE SFECIAILY TO
FfiETENT SORE THROATS
Carreras Ltd.—ls 4 Years’ Reputation for Quality
A foolish spender is a traitor.
The right place for your money
is in £lO National Savings Bonds I
506 6 8
Canada, Australia and New Zealand.
What sacrifices we have had to bear have
been borne gladly by the loyal element,
but with bad grace by the Opposition.
That Opposition has been willing to go
to any lengths in its attempt to defeat
General Smuts, whom it hates as much as
it fears. His wisdom and moderation
have enabled him to mobilise forces both
of man-power and of production which in
1939 would have seemed inconceivable.
His followers are devoted. Their spirit is
good. They are opposed by an element
which is implacably against the Prime
Minister and against the war. This ele-
ment sees nothing in the Russian vic-
tories but the threat of Communism
among the South African natives. It sees
nothing in German expansion but a
natural desire for Lebensraum. It sees
nothing in British generosity but the
stimulus to demand more.
For What They Fight.
[Condensed from an address by John
Bricker, Governor of Ohio, and named as a
likely 1944 Presidential candidate. He was
speaking to and of Americans, but his words
apply widely.]
However hard we work, however much
we manufacture and produce, our sacri-
fices and our services can never equal
that of those brave boys who are now
lighting around the world the fires of
liberty that have been quenched by the
forces of greed and destruction.
But remember that when they marched
away they left a sacred trust in your
hands and mine, to keep the fires of
liberty here at home burning ever brighter
against the day of their victorious return.
Those boys are fighting for us and our
way of life. They are not fighting alone
to destroy the subversive forces in other
lands, but, as well, to preserve liberty.
That liberty is not confined to four free-
doms. It encompasses all the freedoms
of mankind, which have built a great
nation here.
They are not fighting, however, to give
every libertine the right to spread vicious
propaganda across our land or to spread
some of the false, poisonous stuff issued
by the forces bent upon destruction of
our system of representative government.
Our armed forces fight that we shall
have a vote and a voice in the destiny
of our Government. They fight that this
Government shall be kept close to the
heart and the home and the hand of the
citizen. They are not fighting to create
bureaus, commissions or arbitrary boards
to control our daily life. They are fight-
ing for the freedom of the ballot-box,
that the people shall vote upon issues and
candidates at election time.
Indian Speaks for Britain.
[Condensed from a “Christian Science Moni-
tor” article by Judge Waris Ameer Ali.]
It is with regret that many British citi-
zens, not necessarily of British race, read
the uninstructed criticism of the much-
abused “British Raj” uttered by some
American publicists and journals.
Many of us non-Britons have for the
first time in history enjoyed security, fair
dealing and equal opportunity under that
rule, and are not prepared to exchange it
for any other untried system, whether of
local self-government or otherwise, with-
out substantial proof that it may give us
the same amenities as were granted by
the present regime.
Moreover, when we receive sympathy
.from citizens of the United States for
our subject condition —manifested in at
least one American mission in India by
Sunday prayers for “the release of the
poor Indian from British tyranny”—we
are entitled to ask that some distinction
may be drawn between our real and our
reputed oppressors.
A fact recently stated by our Prime
Minister in Parliament that the “Indian
National Congress” is the party of Indian
big business has been met with the reply
that big business in other countries also
supports political parties. This may be
so, but big business in India is largely
the prerogative of Mr. Gandhi’s caste-
fellows, the Bunnias or trading caste of
Hinduism, a close corporation for the
past 4000 years.
These plutocrats have been secular
clients of the priestly Brahmin caste,
whose subtle brains seek once more to
perpetuate their social supremacy in a
new political domination by a caucus
actuated by themselves, and paid for by
their supporters in the hope of an unfet-
tered exploitation of the resources of
India. It is fair to state that the power
of the Bunnia moneylenders is the over-
riding factor in Indian domestic life and
their economic domination over large
sections of their fellow-countrymen is
only kept within reasonable bounds by
virtue of the control exercised by the
much-abused British Government. It is
easy to imagine what will happen should
the Government of India come under a
party caucus actuated by or on behalf
of these very moneylenders.
Indians have for many years filled the
highest civil offices under the Crown.
They are now serving not only in their
own forces, but as officers in British ships
of war and fighting units in command of
Englishmen from the Mother Country,
and have earned honor and distinction
on the sea, in the air and on many fields
of battle.
Dragnet Digest.
(Condensed from various acknowledged
sources .)
One strongly held official view is that the
American attitude toward post-war world organi-
sation will be determined by the size of U.S.
casualties and the depth of U.S. suffering dur-
ing the war. Heavy losses would be expected
to add to the incentive to create some organi-
sation to make future wars less likely. —“ United
States News.”
* * * *
“A few thousand shillings needed from Aus-
tralia.” Thus ran a radio message from U.S.
troops at the captured Jap airfield a few weeks
after the Marines had landed in the Solomons.
For Japanese cost one shilling each—alive.
Native police, who went bush when the Japs
invaded, are now equipped with captured enemy
rifles and sent out by Captain Martin Clem-
ents, their chief, former British District Officer,
who led them into the jungle. They go out to
bag what they can. They slink through the
undergrowth, hide behind trees, creep through
the dead palm leaves, stalk the enemy. They
hunt and track till the hated Jap runs out of
food or ammunition; then bring him in alive
and get their reward —one silver Australian
shilling. —Patrick Maitland, “Harper’s Maga-
zine.”
*** ' *
A Congressional committee has had a report
from its counsel that privately owned merchant
vessels, chartered to the British Ministry of
War Transport in 1941 to carry war supplies
to the Red Sea, realised enough profit from
a single trip to pay off many times over the
total book value of the vessel. In all cases,
the committee was told, the charter hire was
paid out of lend-lease funds. A total of 81
vessels made 90 trips to the Red Sea in the
spring and summer of 1941, and collected a
total of $31,264,880 in charter hire, of which
$26,874,176 represented profits.— U.S. Associ-
ated Press.
* * * *
Howard E. Kershner, Director of the Inter-
national Commission for the Assistance of
Child Refugees, has told President Roosevelt
that small quantities of food are sent to chil-
dren of France, Belgium, Norway and the
Netherlands under International Red Cross
supervision without in any way giving aid to
the Axis. “None of the food which we brought
from Asia, Africa and Central Europe to feed
100,000 French children during the past two
years has been taken by the Germans and the
fact that this food was brought into France
has not enabled the Germans to take any
more French food.” — “Christian Science Moni-
tor
* * * #
Not the least important of the reasons why
post-war air transport plans should be put in
hand with the least possible delay is that when
hostilities cease the Government will be faced
with the problem of finding employment for
between 1,000,000 and 2,000,000 people now
engaged in aircraft production and allied in-
dustries by hundreds of firms. There will be
a similar problem in regard to the great num-
ber of men now serving in the R.A.F. and
Fleet Air Arm, though a great proportion may
be needed for international “police” duties. —
London “Times.”
* * * *
As a marshal of the Soviet Union [since
March] Stalin is entitled to wear the uniform
of that rank with the marshal’s star at the
throat of a uniform coat. The insignia is a
gold and platinum five-pointed star encrusted
with diamonds. The star is provided for by a
decree issued Sept. 3, 1940. It consists of a
platinum star superimposed on a gold star. In
tfie centre of the platinum star there is one
2.69-carat diamond ’surrounded by 25 small
diamonds with a total weight of 1.25 carats.
Outside the platinum star and between the rays
of the gold star are five other diamonds with
a total weight of 3.06 carats. The diameter
of the gold star is 44.5 mm. (about two inches)
and that of the platinum star 23mm. The
entire medal is Bmm. thick, weighs 36.8 grams
(about an ounce) and is suspended from a red
moire ribbon 35mm. wide. — Moscow corres-
pondent N.Y. “Herald Tribune.”
v * * 9
The Japanese live in a news vacuum. They
are perfect examples of the “propaganda man.”
People so carefully nourished on controlled
intellectual food, so well insulated from all
dangerous thought, so stimulated to aggression,
and yet so rigidly disciplined, are stable and
strong so long as the picture of the world in
which they are indoctrinated roughly corres-
ponds to the facts. The only thing that will
smash the picture which Japan’s leaders have
built up over so many years will be a first-class
military defeat. Until that comes, there is little
hope of penetrating the propaganda wall and
of bringing home to the Japanese people a
true picture of the world they live in.
—“Atlantic Monthly.”
* * * *
“I admire conscientious objectors in*this war
so long as they are conscientious, and I admire
soldiers. The only ones I never admire are the
ones who fight with their mouths: ‘Kill one
for me.’ ” — Major Eric Knight, the novelist,
who was killed in a ’plane crash.
* * * *
Captain W. A. Sullivan, U.S. Navy salvage
chief, known for his work on the Normandie,
of which he has said “Hell, yes! We’ll
raise her,” was flown to Morocco in mid-
November to take charge of salvaging French
ships sunk during the invasion. He and his
diving crew have refloated the battleship Jean
Bart at Casablanca and raised most of the
twelve merchantmen sunk at Port Lyautey. —
N.Y. “Times.”
*■* * *
In Washington the boys are betting that any
President in war-time will poll 70 per cent, of
the uniformed men under him in his capacity
of commander-in-chief. Lincoln didn’t do that
well, but still won handily.— American column-
ist John O’Donnell.
H: % #
A total of 750,000 pairs of dice have been
purchased by the U.S. Army Quartermaster
Corps for the troops. “We do not encourage
gambling, however,” said Major Harold R.
Giblin, head of the Overseas Resale and Issue
Procurement Section. Our job is to supply
little things that keep the _ morale high.’
“Christian Science Monitor.”
* * * *
Spain produces hides, wool, tungsten, tin and
other strategic materials —all things that Hitler
needs badly. But for months his agents have
been pacing the floors in their Madrid hotel
rooms, cursing the Yankee horse traders who
have been outbidding them. Not with gmd,
which is worthless for this kind of dealing,
but with valuable commodities like oil for
Spanish fishing boats, anti with food the
number one weapon of modern war. — “Ameri-
can Mercury” article.


mmm
storage equipment is on Active
Service with the A. I. F.
STEELBILT’ is doing a hundred vital jobs in Australia’s war industries. "Steelbilt”
Bins and Shelving are on frontline service with A.EF. Mobile Workshops and
Stores. "Steelbilt” Lockers are going into R.A.A.F. Dormitories; "Steelbilt” Cup-
boards guard replacement parts in Army and Navy Ordnance Stores.
All this means that civilian needs have to be passed by for the moment. But later,
when normal times return, all this extra manufacturing experience will be at the
disposal of all commercial and industrial concerns.
“Waterloo”
DOOR TRACK AND HANGERS
for door weighing 100 lbs. to
1,500 lbs. are now available
through your hardware dealer.
BANGOR DOOR HANGERS
having been called up for our
war effort, will not be available
for the duration.
W /p w
STOMGFIQV/PMMT
MANUFACTURED BY WORM ALD BROS. PTY. LTD. (Incorporated in N.S.W.)
ALL STATES AND NEW ZEALAND


The "Curvilinear” Concentrating Table
SEND FOR
BULLETIN
AND
PRICE.
?4
SIMPLE
AND
RELIABLE.
We are the patentees and manufacturers of this table. Call for a demonstration
Can also quote for all classes of mining machinery, including stamp batteries'
amalgamating tables, magnetic ore separators, classifiers, agitators, everlasting
valves, water- and oil-filters, Rendrock and all other explosives and accessories!
Electric motors and Ellison switch gear.
GUTHRIDGE PTY. LIMITED,
Sole Patentees and Manufacturers,
10-12 PARRAMATTA RD., CAMPERDOWN, SYDNEY, N.S.W.
==-/ Yon \=
Er cannot bequeath
=- CE
- your Judgment
or experience
The judgment and experience a man accumu-
lates in his lifetime cannot be passed on to
his dependents. For this reason it is doubly
important that he should take the necessary
steps to ensure that his estate is managed with
competence and fidelity.
For more than 64 years The Trustees
Executors and Agency Company Limited has
provided the impartial advice and assistance
of a permanent corporation as Executor,
Trustee, Attorney, Agent, and in other capaci-
ties of a fiduciary nature.
The appointment of the company ensures
continuity in the execution of a trust, which
cannot be provided by a single individual.
Charges are fixed and moderate and ample
security is provided. Consult your solicitor
or write or call for full information,
oSJS®
TISE TRUSTEES EXECUTORS
and Agency Company Ltd,
Incorporated in Victoria in 1878
1 BLIGH ST., SYDNEY, AND AT 401 COLLINS ST.. MELBOURNE
Capital (paid and uncalled') and Reserves and
Undivided Profits, £959,622.
BOARD OF DIRECTORS:
Sir Alexander Stewart (Chairman) ;
D. Stuart Murray; Sir Claude Reading, K.C.M.G.;
Sir Lennon Raws, C.8.E.; G. S. Colman, C.8.E.;
Sir Alan Newton.
NEW SOUTH WALES DIRECTORS:
’ Sir Claude Reading, K.C.M.G. (Chairman) ;
W. D. Stewart; R. T. Hilder.
N.S.W. MANAGER: J. W. Russell French.
r Gen. Manager: IN. Sydney Jones, Mluager; K. M. Hughes
in
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
Howard Smith, Ltd.
i Dividends
Pref., To Re- Re-
Dee., Profit. 6 p.c. Ord. serves. s#-ves.
£ £ £ £ £
1931.. 15,172 15,000 Nil 172 304,247
1932.. 17,415 15,000 Nil 2,415 306,662
1933.. 47,168 15,000 30,000 2,168 308,830
p.e.
1934.. 73,979 15,000 50,000 8,979 317,809
1935.. 84,570 15,000 50,000 19,570 337,379
3f p.c.
1936.. 97,649 15,000 75,000 7,649 345,028
From contingency reserve, £10,000.. 355,028
' 5 p.c.
1937.. 146,073 15,000 100,000 31,073 386,101
1938.. 141,821 15,000 100,000 26,821 412,922
Howard Smith and Subsidiaries.*
, H.S. Divs. N To Re-
Dec. Profit. Pref. Ord. Total, serves. Reserves.
1939.. 181,160 6 p.c. 5 p.c. 115,000 66,160 1,228,546
1940.. 132,554 6 p.c. 5 p.c. 115,000 17,554 1,246,100
•Taxation written back, £9OOO .. 1,255,100
1941.. 106,073 6 p.c. 4 p.c. 95,000 11,073 1,266,173
1942.. 130,982 6 „ 4 ~ 95,000 35,982 1,302,155
* Deducting outsiders’ equity in profits and reserves.
People holding Howard Smith shares
have an interest in a variety of Austra-
lian industries. The major activities are
shipping, coal and steel, with sugar-
growing and cement also prominent. So
far as the “Wild Cat” knows, these are
the principal companies with Howard
Smith’s interest in them: —-
Howard
Subscribed Smith’s
Capital. Holding.
Australian Steamships. £1,850,002 £1,849,997
Australian Sugar .. 207,915 155,704
Caledonian Collieries \ pr f If Alt pr f
t 1,023,599 ord. 869,539 ord.
Invincible Colliery .. 104,000 65,791
B.H.P. . . . . 13,862,054 354,180
Southern Port. Cement i 00i pr ® { - pr *f‘
( 639,885 ord. 250,001 ord.
Southern Blue Metal.. 248,000 50,000
A. Goninan & Co. .. 179,262 35^559
J. & A. Brown .. 1,900,007 38,400
Actual subsidiaries are Australian Steam-
ships, Caledonian Colleries, Australian
Sugar and Invincible Colliery. With
the earnings (£89,182) of Howard Smith
itself as manager or agent, this group
earned a trading profit of £261,725 (up
£105,006) last year, and the other invest-
ments named, plus a few more, turned
in £14,752 less at £73,303. Allowance
for depreciation was £48,266 higher at
£119,932, taxation provision (£72,865)
rose by £20,896, and other exes, (includ-
ing £3197 for A.R.P.) were £2648 greater
at £12,099. Allocating £10,126 as the
equity of outside shareholders (against
£14,645), Howard Smith’s share of the
doings was £120,006. up £22,963. To the
profit claimed there has been added in
the introductory table £10,976 put to
share-depreciation reserve, which now
stands at £579,272, and is here included
with other reserves. Ord. div. to the
public remained at 4 p.c., though in dif-
ferent circumstances 5 p.c. might have
been paid.
Shipping is now principally in the
hands of the Cbmmonwealth Govern-
ment. In the previous term the subsidi-
ary had shown a loss of £9840; during
the year to Dec. 31 last the profit was
“sufficient to allow depreciation at only
a moderate rate, without any provision
for replacement at inflated prices or for
the accelerated deterioration under war-
time conditions.” Profits depend on the
margin between charter income and
allowances and costs of running the
ships. Shipowners now have claims be-
fore the Shipping Board for an increase
in rates and allowances to compensate
for the big rise in costs. As for coal,
prices have been pegged, and there is a
lag in compensation for increasing costs.
Inflation in both costs and prices is caus-
ing the industry concern.
Caledonian Collieries paid 3 p.c. on
its prefs. last term ; Invincible came to
light with only l\ p.c., against 4| p.c.
B.H.P. paid out 5 p.c. during 1942,
against p.c.; Southern Portland
handed out 8 p.c. on its prefs. (against
7.1 p.c.) and 3.5 p.c. on its ords. (5.6
p.c.). Sugar divs. are not available, but
they are usually high and fairly stable.
The blue-metal concern remains idle.
The Goninan co. is a 10 per-center.
Finances are very comfortable:
Howard Smith and Subsidiaries.
1939. 1941. 1942.
Pref. capital .. £250,000 £250,000 £250,000
Ord. capital . . 2,000,000 2,000,000 2,000,000
Outside capital*.. 450,451 449,042 449,226
Deposits . . ~ 42,355 21,808 14,666
Other liabilities . . 187,366 266,900 392,340
Workers’ compensation 39,435 40,507 39,743
Tax provision .. 74,576 70,332 94,246
Freeholds and
leaseholds .. 468,320 468,929 463,979
Steamers, collieries,
plant, etc. . . 2,062,926 * 1,971,441 1,887,786
Shares other cos.. . 1,026,319 1,010,489 1,028,458
Stocks, etc. . . 140,672 204,103 204,840
Debtors .. . . 168,746 251,751 408,197
Public securities
and cash, etc. . . 469,496 517,036 598,904
* Including proportion of reserves.
The book value of fixed assets declined
£88,605 last year. Fixed assets of Cale-
donian Colleries alone account for
£1,492,000 in a total of £2,351,765,
so the shipping and sugar interests
seem to be conservatively valued. But
poor colliery earnings are a drag on
the rest of the undertaking, and for the
moment shipping is worth only what it
is allowed by the Government to earn.
Still, taking the good with the bad,
the all-round performance last year was
a notable improvement, and it is not
surprising to find the market offering the
limit price of 235. 3d. for the co.’s ords.
They represent well-assorted protection,
up to a point, against inflation of the kind
we now see figuring prominently in Aus-
tralian economics.
Woolworths (N.Z.), Ltd.
, Dividends To Re- Re-
Oct., Profit. Pref. Ord. Total, serves, serves.f
£ £ £ if
1931.. 20,217 9 p.c. 15 p.c. 10,460 9,757 13,394
1932.. 32,773 9 „ 20 „ 14,338 t 7 - 7 ...
Estab. a/c written off, £10,667 j Ai.lbi
Goodwill written up, £65,812.. .. 86,973
Reserves disappear, £1402 . . . . 85,571
1933.. 42,383 9 p.c. 20 p.c.* 19,746 22,637 108,208
Reserves capitalised, £43,560 .. . . 64,648
1934.. 48,225 9 p.c. 22J p.c. 26,552 21,673 86,321
Goodwill written up, £238,417 .. 324,738
Reserves disappear, £5500 .. .. 319,238
Reserves capitalised, £147,015 .. .. 172,223
1935.. 60,104 9 p.c. 14 p.c. 38,803 21,301 193,524
Reserves capitalised, £98,010 .. .. 95,514
1936.. 72,787 9 p.c. 17* p.c. 59,630 13,157 108,671
1937.. 111,461 9 „ 15 „ 64,245 47,216 155,887
Staff fund, £5OOO 150,887
Reserves capitalised, £56,601 .. . . 94,286
1938.. 125,212 9 p.c. 16 p.c. 104,117 21,095 115,381
Staff fund, £2500 112,851
1939.. 116,866 9 p.c. 16 p.c. 104,117 12,749 125,630
Staff fund, £l5OO 124,130
Taxation underprovided, £26,500 . . 97,630
1940.. 99,070 9 p.c. 14 p.c. 91,330 7,740 105,370
1941.. 94,612 9 „ 14 „ 91,215 3.397 108,767
Tax short-provided for 1941, £22,561.. 86,206
1942.. 77,726 9 p.c. 10,p.c. 66,254 11,472 97,678
* Includes 10 p.c. on bonus shares issued Oct., 1933.
t Not including- depreciation reserve, now £186,960,
and subject to goodwill, £304,229.
Turnover last term declined for the first
time in the co.’s history, the drop being
4 p.c. Trading in the Dominion is close
to the stage of merely distributing sup-
plies available and doing business in
manner and degree permitted by Gov-
ernment control, and sales may shrink
still further, despite the fact that chain
stores usually sell more necessities than
luxuries. Indeed, when an organisation
such as this reports lower turnover be-
cause of restrictions it indicates how tight
the screw on public spending is. Out-
come of persistently restricting the in-
take of sales must naturally be a lesser
outflow of profits and taxes.
No dairy-farmer, dependent solely on
outturn of milk, would attempt econo-
mies by whittling down the feed of his
milkers. Yet it is inevitable that trade
and industry, despite the financial needs
of the Treasury, should be squeezed in
order that there may be a maximum
diversion of real resources to the war
machine. Still, any taxpayer able to hand
the State £4500 weekly is deserving of
better than restrictive prods.
Last term, after allowing for deprecia-
tion, but not taxation, profit claimed was
£311,336 (up £4474). Buoyancy of trade
during the first eight months, before
clothes-rationing became effective, was
mainly responsible for the growth there.
An increase in the tax rate meant that 15s.
of every pound (£233,610, up £21,360) had
to be placed on ice for the taxgatherers.
Net £77,726 remained, and that was suf-
ficient to pay the pref. div. and show 11.8
p.c. on ord. capital as against 14.5, 15.2,
18, 19.3 and 26.7 p.c. back to 1937. A
drop to 10 p.c. came in the ord. div., the
lowest yet. Old holders, however, have
little cause to grumble. Rates in the past
have been very fat, and £345,186 of bonus
scrip has been scattered in 12 short years.
Finances improved. Bulk of the gains
was slipped into cash and gilt-edged
items:
1937. 1939. 1941. 1942.
Paid capital. . £615,982 £672,608 £672,608 £672,608
Mortgage . . 113,500 137,900 186,700 186,002
Sundry creditors 102,240 125,402 117,775 90,613
Tax reserve.. 129,541 258,842 385,787 440,079
Freeholds .. 246,574 361,838 418,846 418,846
Leasehold .. 14,044 17,570 15,007
Plant . . 143,960 181,583 198,095 198,772
Shares other cos. 7 7 7
Stocks .. 384,913 437,411 515,603 534,852
Debtors, etc... 59,486 20,616 9,079' 13,106
Cash, etc. .. 95,138 187,153 239,471 253,781
As indicated, main activity these days,
apart from merchandising, is paying
taxes. So financial requirements other-
wise must be restricted to bare necessi-
ties. Still, the co. was able last year to
put an extra £19,249 into stocks. Result
is that at £534,852 these compare with
£390,409 a couple of years ago. The
growth there, while due in part to higher
prices, is nevertheless encouraging. When
the books closed more or less liquids ex-
ceeded the amount coming to creditors
and mortgages by £525,124 (up £65,446).
The co.’s liability for war-time profits
tax for the past three years was revised
recently and seduced. Refunds and
credits of about £24,750 are expected.
This amount, when received, will offset
nicely £22,561 short-provided for taxa-
tion in 1941 and charged to reserves.
Hoffman Brick (Melbourne)
To Re-
Sept., Loss. Dividend. serves. Reserves.
£ £ £ £
1932.. 4,088 Nil 51,180
Profit on sale property, £6301 .. 57,481
Profit.
1933.. 184 24 p.c. = 4,813 52.852
1934.. 3,054 2i „ „ 4,813 51,093
1935.. 9,944 5 „ „ 9,626 318 51.411
1936.. 9,188 5 „ „ 9,626 50,973
1937.. 13,690 6i „ „ 12,033 1657 52,630
1938.. 11,887 61 „ „ 12,033 52,484
1939.. 15,669 74 „ „ 14,440 1229 53,713
1940.. 14,479 7* „ „ 14,439 * 40 53.753
1941.. 12,628 6| „ „ 12,033 595 54,348
Loss.
1942.. 1,437 Nil 52,911
Cessation of most private building, in-
eluding alterations costing more than £25
without special consent, has fallen hard
on metropolitan brickmakers, who have
not shared in the compensating war con-
tracts thrown to other sections of the
constructional trades. Over the past year
output of bricks in Victoria has fallen
from around 3,500,000 to 400,000 a week,
and as a rationalisation measure the num-
ber of working kilns has been reduced
from 26 to three. Now, for other than
war purposes, both production and sale
of crushed stone, bricks, roofing tiles and
plaster sheets are to be licensed by
W. 0.1.
Besides building bricks, sale of which
is practically limited by delivery charges
(debited to the consumer on a mileage
basis) to areas north of the Yarra, the
Hoffman co. turns out stoneware pipes,
sanitary fittings and other forms of pot-
tery. Shareholdings in brick-and-tile con-
cerns at Auburn, Oakleigh and Blackburn
provide an interest in the trade south of
the river, and there is a consistent, if
small, third line of income in £30,758 of
Government securities. The tightened
building controls which followed the
Japanese threat to the Australian conti-
nent show up in this comparison of met-
ropolitan dwelling permits issued through-
out the Commonwealth:
Year Monthly Year Monthly
June, Average. June, Average.
1929.. £1,549,000 19'39.. £1,509,000
1935.. 796,000 1940.. 1,440,000
1936.. 1,028,000 1941.. 1,696,000
1937.. 1,104,000 1942.. 797,000
1938.. 1,413,000 *1943.. 21,000
* S’even months to January.
For Hoffman, reduced output also aggra-
vated the growing burden of unit costs.
These were “not fully compensated by
sufficient increases in selling prices,” and
in the final analysis the net result re-
corded a reversal of £14,065 after credit-
ing overprovided taxation of £BO9 back
to 1941. The loss of £1437 shown com-
prises a trading deficiency of £3470 —de-
preciation of £3282 was first knocked off
—less investment income of £2033. Fol-
lowing nearly a decade of regular (if by
reason of competition moderate) returns,
shareholders were passed by ; they appear
likely to remain on the outer for the
duration.
A standing stock reserve is being main-
tained against any sudden demand
and/or to start the ball rolling in the


INVENTORS. —Have you an idea worth patenting?
Griffith, Hansel and Griffith, Patent Attorneys,
Asbestos House, Cr. York and Barrack Streets, Sydney,
obtain Commonwealth and foreign patents.—Advt.
* * * *
DAVIES & COLLISON, Patent Attorneys, Collins
House, 360 Collins Street, Melbourne, C.l. Austra-
lian and overseas Patents anfi Trade Marks.— Advt.
pOT YOUR s
I business
IN SAf
t\
The work of trustees and
executors is highly special-
ised—it is unwise to entrust
it to inexperienced hands.
Leave the management of
your estate to a firm render-
ing complete and capable
service. Special facilities
are available for country
and interstate clients. Write
for booklet.
smmumtiuco
58 MARGARET ST., SYDNEY
THE
V
in u
MORE WEALTH
to divide up
'"PHE prime need for the moment, as General MacArthur has
recently reminded us, is to get on with the War, yet there
is much talk of Social Security. It is, therefore, a subject that
should be discussed and understood.
It is important to remember that no national plan of benefits
can, by itself, provide security for the individual. It can never
do much more than provide the minimum of shelter, food and
clothing without which human beings cannot live as human
beings. Additional provision against the misfortunes of life (and
for comfort in old age) must continue to be made by the
citizen himself. Of course, the majority of people do make such
provision, but many people do not realise the extent to which
voluntary thrift exists through Savings Banks, Life Assurance
Societies, Trades Unions, Friendly Societies, and the purchase of
War Bonds or War Savings Certificates.
* Through the A.M.P. Society one family in every three in the Common-
wealth is engaged in building up its own security. These families are
engaged in creating Estates for themselves which is the only sound basis
for security. They see that if we are to raise our national standard of
living there must be a greater production of Wealth. They are engaged
in' producing their share of this wealth and, through their A.M.P. Policies,
in tucking away a part of their share so that they shall have a measure
of financial security when they stand in need of it.
In addition, these families are helping the Nation in its hour of need. Their
savings (many as low as a shilling a ,week) build up the Society’s Funds,
and out of these Funds the Society has been able to put £50,000,000 into
Commonwealth Loans, and is adding £500,000 a month to this vast sum.
A.M.I*. SOCIETY
A sure friend in uncertain times.
Principal Board:
Sir Samuel Hordern K.8.E., Chairman.
Cecil H. Hoskins, Esq., Deputy Chairman.
Hon. Sir Frederick H. Tout, M.L.C., Hubert Fairfax, Esq., W. A. Mackay, Esq.,
Dr. S. A. Smith, Septimus G. Rowe, Esq.
A. W. SNEDDON, F.1.A., General Manager and Actuary.
C. M. Martin, Chief Inspector and Secretary.
A. E. Webb, Manager for New South Wales.
Head Office: 87 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
IT
IF
fOWZR rWNHSM
oOBIEW
Illustrating
the LUDOWICI
PIVOT DRIVE
L U
have
D 0 Wl C I S
the answer
BEHIND the fine quality and the assurance of maximum efficiency in
Ludowici Power Transmission Equipment, stand Ludowici Technicians
—men whose knowledge and experience of every power transmission re-
quirement enable them to give a ready answer to your particular problem.
Our reputation has been built on our willingness to give an unbiassed
opinion and to recommend and supply the most suitable equipment for
each power transmission application.
You have only to ask for our advice to have it freely given.
J. C. LUDOWICI & SON LTD.
117 YORK STREET, SYDNEY
LEATHER
BELT I N G
PULLEYa
COUPLINGS
SHAFTING
GEARS & HANGERS
% * &
TRANSMISSION
!«raAB£raMMBSS£i9i&s
building programme reconstruction will
usher in:
1936. 1940. 1941. 1942.
Paid capital.. £192,528 £192,528 £192,528 £192,5-8
Liabilities .. 8,354 11,222 14,837 7,199
Freeholds .. 75,767 77,721 77,004 78,014
Plant, etc. . . 71,839 61,272 57,601 65,162
. Stock .. 21,169 26,412 27,003 27,194
Shares other cos. 41,821 44,321 44,946 44,946
Book debts .. 18,695 21,834 20,799 10,114
Cash, etc. . . 28,536 35,974 41,176 31,613
Plant is reported in good working order,
and the financial position occasions no
misgivings. However, associated ventures
can be written off as revenue-producers
for the present, and the board’s success
in making ends meet will largely depend
on the benefits which accrue from co_
ordination of production activities in the
industry.
Tin
Malaya, the Netherlands Indies, Siam,
Indo-China and Burma were formerly
responsible for approximately two-thirds
of the world’s tin production, and the
United Nations accounted for a similar
share of the world’s consumption. When
Japan overran southern Asia and the East
Indies the tin position for the anti-Axis
Powers looked alarming. But, with the
exception of lead, London sources say
that tin is the only major base metal the
supply position of which does not cause
anxiety to the Combined Raw Materials
Board and the various Allied Govern-
ments. The United States started accumu-
lating huge stocks from the middle of
1940 onwards, and the United Kingdom
built up a smaller reserve pile ; but at
the pre-Jap rate of consumption it was
not considered likely that these would
guarantee supplies during prolonged war
activity. The Allies attacked the tin
problem quickly by encouraging new pro-
duction and eliminating excessive con-
sumption, and the official journal of the
Tin Producers’ Association estimated
United States stocks at 120,000 tons at
the end of 1942. Measured at the present
rate of consumption, that is actually a
far stronger position than a year earlier.
To step up tin production, the price for
Bolivian tin was lifted to well above the
controlled selling price in the United
States, and in Africa (Belgian Congo and
Nigeria) output was also encouraged.
The Australian industry has also been
pushed along. On the consumption side
it is worth recording that before the war
about half tin consumption was absorbed
in making tinplate, about a fifth was used
in solder, a tenth in bronze and a tenth
in bearing metals, collapsible tubes and
foils. Miscellaneous trades took the
remaining tenth. Greatest savings in the
use of tin have been in connection with
tinplate—reduction in the use of tinplate
and reduction of the tin coating of tin-
plate. Only foodstuffs are now packed
in tinplate, and in some instances a form of
lacquering—“bonderising”—is used in the
case of non-acid foods. Electrolytic tin-
ning in place of hot-dipping has reduced
the tin used in plating by one-half to two-
thirds. In 1942 the United States tinplate
industry used only half the quantity of
tin consumed in 1941, and in 1943 an-
other halving of consumption is looked
for. In 1942 total U.S. consumption was
65,000 tons, against 100,000 tons in 1941.
Somewhat similar savings have probably
been made in the British Empire.
De Bernales Westralian group con-
tinues to do its gold-production bit
despite man-power difficulties and scof-
fers. Here are the latest batch of monthly
returns, which have an aggregate value
of £68,360: Great Boulder Proprietary,
24,386 tons, 4479 fine ounces; Comet,
1360 tons, 1083 fine ounces; Yellowdine,
1145 tons, 478 fine ounces; Phoenix
(old Bayley’s Reward), 1856 tons, 380
fine ounces; Emu, 2273 tons, 597 fine
ounces. In view of the increasing de-
mand, tests are being made on the Comet
to see how much arsenic can be obtained
per month.
is * * *
Perth shareholders are not satisfied
with the adherence of the Sons of Gwalia
London board to its decision to withhold
payment of a dividend when the office
till is bulging with money. They have
cabled a further protest. Board’s reply
to their first cable was that distribution
was being delayed because of (1) warn-
ings by responsible leaders in the South-
west Pacific area, (2) information regard-
ing possible further call-up of Westralian
goldminers, and (3) heavy taxation liabili-
ties looming ahead. An addendum said
the question of dividends was constantly
under review.
* * * *
Westralian Chamber of Mines held its
annual roll-up in Kalgoorlie the other
day. A full house mourned the death of
president Dick Hamilton and all extolled
his work for the Westralian mining in-
dustry. An extract from the annual
address he had prepared just before pass-
ing on was read by his successor, F. G.
Brinsden. It said that it was not unlikely
that prospecting for base metals and
minerals might result in discoveries which
would prove of great value and offset
the reduced gold production which was
inevitable as time went on. Brinsden
thanked the State Government and Mines
Department for the support they had
given goldmining during these trouble-
some times. Brinsden is general manager
of South Kalgurli.
* , * * *
Owing to further good reports concern-
ing the new discovery at the 520 ft. level
of its Kalgoorlie Golden Mile mine,
Paringa’s admirers are increasing. Latest
news is that in a drive off a winze at
57ft. below the level values have aver-
aged ll|dwt. over a width of 52 inches.
Present face is said to be in high-grade
ore showing free gold and telluride. Full
width for the 15ft. driven is not disclosed.
At the end of last August proved ore re-
serves were estimated at 262,000 tons,
or fully three years’ supply for the mill.
The grade was 6.3ldwt. Included in the
estimate was 15,700 tons of 20|dwt. de-
veloped at that date on the new discovery.
* * *
Westralian Chamber of Mines table
showing total quantity of ore treated in
that State, yields of gold, and dividends
paid in 1941 and 1942:
1941. 1942. Decrease.
Treated, long tons 4,210,832 3,225,753 985,079
Yield (fine oz.) .. 1,105,438 856,805 248,633
Value of yield at
£4.247 per fine
oz. (the old price
of gold) .. £4,695,602 £3,639,476 £1,056,126
Dividends.. .. £830,032 £423,782 £406,250
Average amount per oz. paid by the Mint and
received by producers during 1942, £9 14s. 6.32 d.
* * * *
“O.B.”: Ore reserves of three big Rand
gold-producers in which some Australian
investors are interested: Robinson Deep,
6,377,000 tons averaging 4.4dwt. a ton
over 57 inches —a decline of 532,000
tons, a contraction of two inches in width
and an increase of ldwt. in value com-
pared with a year ago ; West Rand Con-
solidated, 9,767,000 tons averaging
4.3dwt. over 46 inches—-tonnage 833,000
lower, width one inch greater, value un-
changed ; Simmer and Jack, 3,181,000
tons averaging 4.2dwt. over 49.6 inches —
tonnage 378,000 lower, width 1.2 inches
less, value 2dwt. higher.
« * * *
Associated Mining and Finance, Ltd., a
London holder of Lake Views, Wiluna,
Gold Fields Australian Development
(W.A.) and Blackwater (N.Z.), reports a
profit last year of £6068, compared with
£14,089 the previous 12 months. Co.
was formed in 1925 with a capital of
£300,000 to acquire the Canadian assets
of Associated Gold Mines of W.A., and
in 1934 increased its capital to £400,000
to purchase the belongings of Associated
Gold Mines of W.A. (New). Between
1934 and 1938 shareholders got an
aggregate of 3s. 6d. in dividends. They
haven’t received anything since. There
are 834,618 paid Bs. shares issued.
* * * *
From London:
Reconstruction of Rangoon share-registers of
Burma Corporation, which were lost during
hurried evacuation, is proving some task. A
complication is added by the reluctance of
Indian shareholders to send their certificates by
sea mail. Completion of the registers is im-
portant, as it will determine the issue of the
next accounts. The last to appear were those
for June 30, 1941. Bulk of shares are held in
Britain. Australia has some, and a* Westralian,
P. E. Marmion, is chairman, and he and W. S.
Robinson are joint managing directors.


is a War
Essential
71
Our fighting services must have first
priority for all equipment—and one of
the essentials is clothing. Like all fac-
tories we are producing large war or-
ders, consequently there are limited
civilian supplies this year of • • •
GOLDEN FLEECE
«i KOOKABURRA
Australia’s Finest
IbtiMinJcaMe UNDERWEAR
For Men 9 Women and Children
U7B-27
m
you
can
n
mm
BRANDAUFR’
r.
Every point
guaranteed
do not experiment with imitations.
& BBJLHDAUSa * GO. M - BIBMtHOHAU. ENO
Business, Rollery, Etc.
A Central Bank Review
Last week the Commonwealth Bank
published graphs showing the relative
income taxation of Australia, Great
Britain, Canada, Maoriland and the
United States. In the bulky under-£4OO-
--year category they showed Canada as
being lightly taxed in comparison with
similar incomes in the Commonwealth,
and, except in the case of single men
earning between £5OO and £2OOO a year,
they indicated that Canadian tax rates
rarely exceeded those in the Common-
wealth, even taking in the Dominion's
post-war credits as tax. The Australian
central bank qualified its graphs with
explanations; for one thing, exchange
rates were taken into account, and, for
another, there was the question of living
costs in the different countries. It was
stated that living costs in Australia were
lower than in Canada and the U.S.A.,
and, possibly, in the United Kingdom
also. Where Australian living costs are
lower, the burden of taxation is relatively
lighter than in countries where living
costs more. Child endowment in Aus-
tralia and concessional deductions here
and in other countries are other modify-
ing factors. However, the central bank
expressed the opinion that “income taxa-
tion is now at least as high as, and prob-
ably higher than,” in the United King-
dom, United States, Canada and New
Zealand.
Nevertheless we should be careful
about patting ourselves on the back about
the comparative effort of our taxpayers.
Pound sterling for pound Australian,
U.K. taxes are higher, in the vital lower-
income groups, than in the Common-
wealth, though allowances for dependants
in the U.K. are greater than in this coun-
try. And at what time during its war
effort has Australia been in a position
to make a statement of this order? :
The war-time financial record of the Canadian
Government is a creditable one. From the very
start of hostilities it has been the determination
of the Government and people of Canada to
avoid as far as possible any unnecessary increase
in the inevitable financial burdens of the war.
We have adopted a policy of securing the greatest
possible proportion of revenue from current
sources, thus diminishing inflation and the
piling up of capital liabilities. Our financial
effort has been described by authorities as
“staggering,” and the fact that we have so far
paid almost 50 per cent, of our total expendi-
tures from current taxation is a better record
than that of any other country. Put into simple
terms, the policy of the Canadian Government
has been “pay-as-you-go.” In order to carry
out this policy of meeting current expenses out
of current revenue the Government has found
it necessary to increase income and other
taxes to a tremendous extent. Our income taxes
are the highest in the world in many income
brackets.
It is true that those remarks (of the
Royal Bank of Canada) carry the date
of February, which was before the new
April 1 increase took place in Australian
income taxes. These increases were de-
scribed here as a deathbed repentance,
and they added to the already overloaded
upper-income scale, as well as something
to the individually lower but great in
aggregate incomes. It is quite clear from
the Commonwealth Bank graphs that
taxation on the higher incomes in Aus-
tralia is the highest in the Allied world ;
but, while this may mean exceptional
personal hardship in the cases of the indi-
viduals affected, it does not mean as much
to the national revenues as would a
steeper scale of tax on the under-£B-a-
week incomes, which represent 70 p.c. of
all Australian incomes.
Canada is able to say that “almost 50
p.c.” of its total expenditure has been
met from current taxation, whereas, even
on the basis of increased Australian taxes,
it was estimated that the best we could
hope for this year was 40 p.c., and
quite possibly it will be less. Only
about 18 p.c. of our war outgo has been
met from taxation so far this year. We
have to consider also whether or not our
war-time expenditure is being directed
more to “wasting assets” than in Canada
—whether more of our outgo is simply
going in food for service men, ammuni-
tion and other purely war-time supplies.
It is only the value of adaptable indus-
trial plants, roads, shipping, etc., that
will “stick” after the war.
The Australian central bank records
that over the last 18 months or so our
cost of living has risen at a greater rate
than that of Britain, Canada or M.L.
It believes that financial measures alone
cannot cope with the problem, “though
inadequate financial controls can make
its solution far more difficult.”
Even with the most drastic taxation or com-
pulsory loans, consumers’ money incomes
would still be greatly in excess of the goods
available for them to buy at current prices. To
keep this excess as small as possible, however,
requires heavy taxation the greatest possible
encouragement of individual saving and the pre-
vention of unnecessary increases in incomes—
particularly by the stabilisation of wages,
salaries, profits and prices, the last necessarily
including prices of primary products.
If prices are rising rapidly, this aim is much
harder to achieve, for saving is discouraged, and
there is constant pressure to raise money in-
comes, a pressure which fails to secure a corre-
sponding increase in purchasing power. Rising
prices cause constant disputes between employer
and employee, speculation grows and interferes
with smooth production, and morale is weak-
ened by suspicions of undue advantage and
profiteering. Finally, when prices are increas-
ing rapidly, it is impossible to ensure equitable
distribution of the goods remaining available
for civil use. People in the low income groups
or whose bargaining power is weak are not
able to buy their share. Even a very wide
extension of rationing cannot prevent this in-
eqtiity and the resentment and hardship that
it will cause
It was apparent that the existing controls
in Australia were not proving fully effective,
and heavy taxation was unlikely to be sufficient
to prevent the upward movement of prices, with
Government expenditure still well in excess of
receipts. It was consequently essential that
further general increases in prices should be
prevented.
For these reasons, the board is fully in
accord with the principle of fixing a general
ceiling to all prices, as announced by the Gov-
ernment on April 12. After that date produ-
cers, _ manufacturers and traders will not be
permitted to charge higher prices than those
ruling on April 12. Where unavoidable in-
creases in costs occur, and these cannot be
absorbed either by reducing profit margins or
by rationalisation and concentration in the in-
dustry concerned, Government subsidies will be
paid to prevent prices piercing the ceiling now
set. A Price Stabilisation Committee has been
set up, consisting of the Secretary to the
Treasury, the Director-General of War Organ-
isation of Industry and the Prices Commis-
sioner, which will consider applications, for
subsidies.
The central bank refers to the Gov-
ernment’s “comprehensive scheme of
national welfare, to be financed out of
general revenue by an annual grant of
£3O million or a sum equal to one-fourth
the total income tax on individuals,
whichever is the lower.” But “only part
of the plan will be introduced immedi-
ately.”
With regard to man-power, it is re-
corded that about 800,000 persons have
enrolled for the three armed services, and
factory employment has risen from a
pre-war figure of 540,000 to a total of
724,000, of whom over 500,000 are en-
gaged in war work. In addition, the
Allied Works Council controls over
53,000 men.
As a result of import controls and
some inflow of capital, Australia will be
able to provide £BO million towards over-
seas war commitments, against £5O mil-
lion forecast in the Budget. Reciprocal
lend-lease to the United States to Dec.
31 was £27.5 million, while outlay in
this respect for the whole of 1942-43 is
put at double that figure. “Under the
reciprocal lend-lease arrangements, Aus-
tralia supplies the greater part of the
food required for the United States forces
in the South-west Pacific area, and some
food reserves for those in the South
Pacific area. In addition to food many
other supplies and facilities are provided
for United States forces in Australia.”
Senator Keane has stated that United
States lend-lease aid to Australia up to
March 1 was $452 million, equal to £l4O
million Australian.
The bank board’s report on this occa-
sion is a special one, issued because of
“these times of rapidly changing econo-
mic and financial conditions.” As 'a
report of certain information its appear-
ance is welcome and opportune, but
there is no note of criticism in it
anywhere, even if occasionally there is
a suggestion of apology for the Govern-
ment. Reading the report, there is no
indication that the Government has
slipped badly in its financial administra-
tion or that private industry is over-regu-
lated. Dr. Coombes might have edited
it. No mention of bank-credit finance
appears, and not a word about industrial
absenteeism and overpayment of many
munition workers. The matter of pay-as-
you-go taxation is not discussed, and the
bungling in food production and distri-
bution is accepted as a matter of course.
The extraordinary “national welfare”
plan is taken at its face value, without a
word of analysis. At the finish of the
report, and without one visible shudder,
the Mortgage Bank is mentioned—but
with the almost animated remark that
“it will take an appreciable time before
the department will be ready to com-
mence operations.”
A.C.I. Investments (an offshoot of Aus-
tralian Consolidated Industries) held
38,513 ords. and 10,000 deferreds in
Masonite Corp. (Australia) at Sept. 9,
1942. Masonite (U.S.A.) at that date
held 53,334 deferreds. Originally the
American relative took 100,000 of the
deferreds, paying cash. Almost half its
holding has since found other owners.
The business has been presented with
exceptional opportunities by the war. The
C.S.R. is interested on the marketing side ;
it had prior experience with its own Cane-
ite. The arrangement seems quite satis-
factory.


The Mutual Life and Citizens’
Assurance Company, Limited
Martin Place and Castlereagh Street,
SYDNEY.
Founded 1886.
There is no better way of providing
cash for your family, or for yourself
when you retire, than by taking out
a policy with The M.L.C.
ASSETS EXCEED £37,000,000
ANNUAL INCOME EXCEEDS
£5,500,000.
M. C. Alder, A.1.A.,
General Manager.
Public Notice.
REHABILITATION IN
SPECIALTY SELLING
Full Course 20/First lesson posted free.
How to sell highly profitable lines. How to
improve personality. How to make and keep
customers and friends. H. Douglas, 4 Castle—
reagh Street, Sydney.
For Australia at War . . .
mmm
C)Ye _Manufacture
LATHES . . . CAPSTAN TURRET LATHES
SHAPING, MILLING and PLANING
MACHINES .... BORING MILLS
MACHINE-CUT GEARS for the Trade
*
MARS MACHINE TOOL Manfg. Co.
established 1920 Pty. Ltd. Bridge Street, Valley, Brisbane
m.
m
w
THE SI
NAE TO ADVANCE
ng
Equipment for
highest quality . .
Cable is being used where
everything . . .
Pioneered in Australia by Olympic,
Rubber Insulated Cables have
proved one of the Country’s most
valuable war-time assets.
services must be of
Rubber Insulated
idability means
OLYMPIC
/(■H -=jf/ r/-)2. ‘ '
_jC5
£T/«
rcazari
ifi'/
I
I vJ^WlSt
THE OLYMPIC TYRE & RUBBER CO. LTD.
VICTORY
WAR
SERIES
RONALDSON-TIPPETT
/&
if wX.,
V'
W®
f. !
3
OERE is a compressed air-controlled, electric motor, V-belt
** driven SHELL LATHE (weight, 2\ tons) built for many of
Australia’s munition shops by Ronaldson-Tippett. . . just one of
our many war jobs in a vast factory devoted to defence production.
This lathe turns out 6 “pounder” and 25 “pounder” shells. Reports
received on its work jFrom all parts of the Commonwealth have
been highly complimentary. Because we are building this and
much other essential equipment our normal output of engines and
farm and station machinery cannot be maintained.
We are proud to play a part in keeping the wheels of War
Industry turning. When we return to the paths of peace our
energies will be no less enthusiastic in the interests of our primary
producers.
RONALDSON BROS. & TIPPETT PTY., LTD.
Head Office: BALLARAT, Vic.
N.S.W. Distributors: Konaldson Bros. * Tippett Pty., Etd., Frazer House,
42 Bridge Street, SYDNEY.
Queensland Distributors: Konaldson Tippett (Q’land) Pty., Etd.,
Parbury House, 127 Eagle Street, BRISBANE.
When the 4 p.c. profits proposal was
before Federal Parliament it was often
wondered as to who the sponsor or t e
thing was. Sydney “Herald was
emphatic that Prices Commissioner Cop-
land was the brain behind it- he certainly
must have been consulted in the matter.
However, so far as the public was con-
cerned, it was a Ministerial affair until
it was declared “administratively impos-
sible.” Now that there have been accusa-
tions that price control has been used as
a medium to introduce the 4 p.c. policy
it is interesting to recall certain remarks
by Professor Copland made to the Vic-
torian branch of the Economic Society in
September, 1941. In reply to a question
about the Prices Branch’s attitude to-
wards net profits he said; -
That question raises the whole problem
of laying down a standard rule on net
profit. You cannot do it. It is quite im-
possible for the reason that the gentleman
who asked the question mentioned, among
other reasons. The circumstances differ
so much as between any two _ members of
a group of traders, as he said, and they
differ again as between trades as a whole.
A profit of 8 p.c. on capital in one trade
would be regarded as reasonable, when it
might in another trade be regarded as too
small or too great, according’to the degree
of risk involved. You therefore cannot
lay down any fixed rule.
In the light of these remarks it certainly
doesn’t seem likely that the Prices Com-
missioner would have changed his mind
to the extent of advocating a standard
rate of 4 p.c. on capital employed, even
though the Government itself was
changed in the meantime. Last week
Prime Minister Curtin denied that the
prices-ceiling plan aimed at the imposi-
tion of a 4 p.c. profits limit. However,
complaints persist. It is possible that with
price control now embracing so many
things delegation of authority has pro-
duced rigidity in administration that is
just as out of place as a rigid percentage
profits limit.
* * *
The loan closed, it seems, with 422,000
or so subscribers, and with £l.B million
over. The person who is interested in
the state of Australia’s war-time finances,
however, is entitled to cock an eye of
interrogation at the Treasury’s loan
figures, it having been the habit in the
past for underwriting banks to fill up
what the public failed to fill. Whether
the public (including the life-assurance
offices, etc.) really filled this loan is not
known; but it is perfectly clear that
public support has been withheld on
several occasions until the last minute in
order to reprimand a Government in
whose financial behavior confidence has
been lost. In the case of the recent loan
subscriptions during the last couple of
days were so heavy that Treasurer
Chifley at one stage was about 40,000
out in his estimate of the final number of
subscribers. Even at 422,000 the number
of subscribers was still poor in relation
to present public earnings and savings,
but thousands of people have had their
minds fuddled by the inequality of sacri-
fice in this country that is condoned by
the Government and by the varied
Ministerial counsel they receive, from
that of Curtin and Chifley to that of
Ward and Dedman.
* * * *
One of the tragedies of Australia today
is the lack of opportunity for self-expres-
sion. Because his mouthpiece is so often an
imported union secretary who is no more
representative of this country than Tar-
zan of the Apes, the Australian worker
is more misrepresented than otherwise,
and is all too frequently led by the nose.
At union meetings he rarely gets a
chance against the radicals and Commu-
nists, though there are indications that
some Sydney wharfies are taking a more
determined stand against Communistic
overlordship. The Labor party itself has
been against self-expression for Austra-
lians, and it deals in half-truths, with
shoddy salesmanship. Whatever purpose
it was intended to serve is past and gone ;
its outlook now is almost entirely para-
sitical. Its only source of strength is the
tradition and established organisation be-
hind it.
* * * #
“Over 1200 leading economists” in the
United States have issued a statement in
connection with the possible abandon-
ment of the international trade agree-
ments sponsored by Secretary of State
Hull. It reads, in part:
Some of us would like to see American
policy turn toward laissez faire, some
toward a greater measure of planning. But
all of us stand on this common ground:
We are convinced that world-wide rever-
sion toward nationalistic protections after
the war will hinder the development of all
types of reasonable reconstruction pro-
grammes; that the pattern of co-operative
action which the American trade agree-
ment programme provides is the minimum
basis of United States post-war policy, and
that repudiation of this programme by
Congress would inevitably start an ava-
lanche of trade restriction in foreign coun-
tries.
We believe that economic barriers tend
to produce ill-will between nations and to
lower standards of living, both at home
and abroad. We are proud of the fact
that in 1934, in the midst of a world-wide
trend toward national isolationism, the
United States adopted a trade programme
looking toward the mutual reduction of
international economic barriers.
Economic barriers undoubtedly do tend
to lower world living standards, but in
many cases national standards have to
defer to national existence. So far as
unnecessary and unreasonable Protection
is concerned, the United States represents
a country from which a lead in the direc-
tion of reciprocal trade will have to come
before much can be done in the way of
freeing world trade generally. During its
recent life the U.S.A. has been highly
nationalistic in its economic outlook, and
yet it seeks large world markets for its
surplus production.
* * * *
The cost of establishing a prices ceiling
for food was £96 million in Britain dur-
ing the Budget year to March 31. Total
cost of subsidies was £127 million, which
profits on certain commodities brought
down to £96 million. Australia now has
a prices ceiling.
* * *
Washington has announced that it has
finished for the present its negotiations
with Australia in the matter of a world
currency agreement. The Commonwealth
awaits a more concrete presentation of
any proposed agreement before giving up
control of its own exchange rate. In
London Sir Kingsley Wood said that
“any international monetary scheme must
serve the interests of international trade,
and its success or failure will be condi-
tioned not by the technical skill of the
monetary mechanism but by the sanity
of the policy wg adopt in international
commerce.” In other words, knowledge,
tolerance and administration are the
things.
Jjs H* H 5 H*
In the United States share dealings for
the first 181 weeks of 1943 exceeded the
total Wall-street transactions for 1942. In
the Commonwealth price limits have
brought dealings almost to a standstill.
In spite of the increased activity on
’Change in the United States, the second
war loan of £4OOO million Australian was
almost 40 p.c. oversubscribed. The total
collected was over £5600 million.
* * *
On the Sydney wharves, for 11 hours’
work on a Sunday, it is customary for a
man to collect something in excess of
£5. Over a week-end above £7 is re-
ceived ; a doctor in the Air Force would
collect only a little more than that in a
week.
* * * *
The Associated Chambers of Com-
merce is advocating a contributory, sub-
sidised scheme of national insurance to
cover sickness, accidents, unemployment,
old age, invalid and widows’ pensions,
as well as funeral benefits. Contributions
by the Government, employers and em-
ployees would be on a basis to be de-
cided on, but at a fixed rate, and benefits
also to be on a scale that does not take
into account the income of the contri-
butor. Administration of the scheme, it
was contended, should be in the hands
of a commission representative of the
contributing interests.
* * * *
Mr. Chifley is “not perturbed” by the
note-hoarding now going on in Australia.
He says the hoarding is small, anyway.
The issue is now up to about £l3B mil-
lion, and about £122 million of that is
in the hands or hiding-places of the pub-
lic and service men, compared with £3O-
- million pre-war. Actually the hoard-
ing appears to be very substantial in
proportion to the whole note issue, and
seems greater than in any of the other
countries at war.
* * * *
Private building activity in the six capi-
tal cities of Australia is down to less than
10 p.c. of the average for the two years
to the middle of 1942. Government con-
struction has kept up a sustained demand
for tradesmen and building materials.
* *
Railway revenue in N. S. Wales is aver-
aging 75 p.c. higher than in 1938-39. In
Queensland revenue is more than double
pre-war.


THE SERVICE MAN
The End in Tunisia.
“Ek Dum”: The second week of May,
1943, will go down in British Common-
wealth history as magnificent and never
to be forgotten.
Almost three years before General
Alexander had toured the Dunkirk
beaches with Captain Tennant, the senior
naval officer (unfortunately not in Tunisia
to enjoy his revenge—he died with the
battle-cruiser Repulse in December,
1941). “On*being satisfied that no British
troops were left on shore, they themselves
left for England.” The words are those
of Lord Gort’s dispatch.
Nearly 225,000 British soldiers, includ-
ing 13,000 wounded, and 112,000 French
soldiers had been evacuated. to England
by 200 naval vessels and 600 ships, boats,
wherries and arks. The evacuation had
cost 12 destroyers—six British and six
French —and a number of smaller vessels.
The Navy had had sufficient margin to
take part simultaneously in an attack on
Narvik.
On June 12, 1940, it was here written:
Out of defeat and a glorious feat of life-
saving—the most wonderful in all history—
one great fact emerges. So soon as the war
reaches the sea, the Royal Navy is the
dominant factor, as always.'
Thanks to the R.N., the B.E.F. came
home “ordered, calm and determined,”
and “with the air of conquerors moving
from victory to victory.”
It was thanks again to the Royal Navy
and the Merchant Navy that Lord Gort
was in command in heroic Malta and
that Alexander’s armies were in Tunisia,
with their supply lines open, in May, 1943 ;
thanks to the Royal Navy in the main
that there was no escape for Arnim’s
legions from the beaches of Cape Bon
Peninsula. Not an Italian ship of any
consequence dared to attempt a rescue.
Instead of being able to write their
defeat as a triumph over vicissitude, as
did the B.E.F. in France, the Axis Powers
have taken their beating plunged in
shame. And the word “Dunkirk” was
expunged from the snarling vocabulary
of Berlin Radio.
A wonderful week for Alexander and
Gort. Gort’s ships and bombers and
fighters from Malta held the adjacent
Italian ports under stringent blockade.
And for every man Alexander had seen
lost in Flanders he had seen the Axis in
Tunisia lose 10. In Flanders and France
in 1940, the B.E.F. had left behind the
whole of its equipment, including 1000
guns—the worst part of the disaster, since
it left the defenders of Britain with
almost no major field weapons.
In Tunisia, Alexander took 1000 Ger-
man and Italian guns in exchange, apart
from hundreds more destroyed. For
makeweight he took vast piles of ammu-
nition, tanks, wagons, battlefield stores
in general beyond the dreams of the
B.E.F. in France. He left the enemy
nothing, not even honor.
It was a victory complete, tremendous,
overwhelming and dowered with an air
of reality which had been absent from
victories on the eastern front, the results
of which—the prisoners, the spoils—were
not seen by correspondents. In Africa
correspondents wandered freely among
scenes full of event and drew from the
evidence of their wide-open eyes a new
outlook and almost a humility of admira-
tion.
Reading the daily press during the last
week was like travelling in a strange and
beautiful land. Colonel Blimp was not
once mentioned. There was not a single
sneer at the Old School Tie —Alexander
and his generals are all of the public-
school tradition —not a slur cast upon
British generalship or the fighting quali-
ties of the Tommy.
To the soldiery—the 51st Division of
Scots, whose forerunners were bottled up
in France and lost; to the Rifle Brigade,
whose battalions were swallowed up in
the epic defence of Calais, which made
Dunkirk possible ; to the Indians, who
had known the rigors of Tobruk ; to the
Hussars, who had spent 2\ years chasing
Germans and Italians all over North
Africa, the week must have seemed like
a series of wonderful dreams.
No sooner were the Allies in Tunis
and Bizerta, in which every house was
a solemn witness to the power of ,the
R.A.F., than the chase began in the Bon
Peninsula. It began on May 9. It had
virtually ended on May 11.
Old Friends Meet
The May 12 communiques told how
the British mobile columns had roared
down, the peninsula, followed by stream-
ing infantry, and how a dazed adjutant-
general’s office was struggling with the
count of a mass of prisoners who were
still coming out of hide-holes in streams.
The only resistance still in being was
that of divisions in the hill country at
the base of the peninsula below Zag-
houan. Their retreat had been cut by
the Eighth Army. The 19th French
Corps had swung to north and east
behind them like a closing gate. And
after a stormy artillery resistance these
divisions gave in like the rest. The
morale of the whole German force, as
well as that of the Italian, had been com-
pletely broken.
There were many meetings of old an-
tagonists. The 7th British Armored
Division, formed in Egypt at the end of
1940, accepted the surrender of what
remained of the 15th Panzers, whom
they had fought again and again over
two years. Major-General Borowietz,
the G.0.C., said as he handed himself
over: “Not a tank, not a gun, not a
grenadier is left —only 40 tank men.”
The “Desert Rats,” who had stood out
against the whole force of the Afrika-
korps armor in April, 1941 —Rommel
had over 480 tanks at that stage in or
near his front —long enough to allow the
A.I.F. and the Indians and Poles to
settle into Tobruk, had the satisfaction
of knowing that, largely owing to their
own effort, their enemy was not only
badly beaten but almost completely
destroyed.
By May 13 General von Arnim him-
self had surrendered to the smiling
Indians of the 4th Brigade, who surely
had earned their right to finish the Afri-
can war. It was the Indians, with their
brigaded Scottish regiment and the
armored division, who started the battle
in Wavell’s drive on Sidi Barrani on
December 5, 1940.
“Now a Forward Base.”
On May 12 Mr. Attlee announced in
the Commons, Mr. Churchill having
gone to Washington, by ship this time:
The continent of Africa has been cleansed
entirely of all Nazi and .Fascist infection.
Occupation of North Africa is not an end.
North Africa is now a forward base from
which will be launched at the right
moment further attacks on the Axis.
An Italian communique read over
Rome Radio with a queer note of pride
declared that General Messe’s First Army
had “had the honor to be the last resist-
ing Axis force,” and had “ceased fighting
by order of the Duce.” It gave in to
Freyberg’s doughty Maorilanders.
Everybody in Tunisia who looked like
an Allied soldier was embarrassed by the
offers of crowds of Germans and
Italians to surrender. No longer grim
Nazis or bitter-end Fascists, the prisoners
laughed and joked. There were more of
them than there were men of the Eighth
or First Army.
They had guns, tanks, stores and am-
munition in abundance. Some of them
were well protected behind fortifications
and minefields. Yet they surrendered
without conditions, handing over their
arms —14 generals, thousands of officers
and tens of thousands of men every day.
The American Corps and the Frfench on
the northern sectors counted out an
exact 37,998. The British armies by the
week-end had another 155,000 captured
since May 5, apart from 300,000 odd
taken in previous campaigns.
Of the Tunisian total, 150,000 were
Germans.
In six months the Axis lost 2000 ’planes
destroyed and 500 captured to the Allies’
loss of 700.
And the whole feat was performed to
an exact timetable. Months before Gen-
eral Alexander told his Minister that the
campaign would be over on May 15. On
that day Von Arnim was in England.
At Stalingrad where, incidentally,
Arnim’s brother, Lieutenant - General
Zikst von Arnim, G.O.C. 113th Division,
was captured—the Russians claimed
91,000 prisoners in the last three weeks of
the battle, including 45,000 at the final
surrender.
Empires Lost and Gained
The Axis losses since 1940 in Africa
have been roughly 600,000, two-thirds
being Italians.
They have lost also:
Square Popula-
Miles. tion.
Eritrea .. 45,500 600,000
Ethiopia .. 350,000 10,000,000
Somaliland .. 194,000 1,300,000
Libya .. .. 684,000 850,000
Total .. ..1,173,500 12,700,000
All this was recaptured by British or
British Dominion troops. In addition,
French colonies in Africa with a total
area a third larger than that of Australia
—4,272,685 square miles, with a popula-
tion nearly as great as that of France
v it tTAioviA u u uuarotoH
itself-43 075,(W0-have been liberated
or freed from the fear of domination.
The victories have given the Allies new
routes, new ports, new and tremendous
sources of raw materials, and have done
much to level up the man-power position,
Not least is the moral effect on Europe,
on Africa and on Asia in particular, but
primarily on the Axis peoples, who heard
the news of the surrenders in an atmo-
sphere thick with the smoke and dust
raised by thunderous Allied bombings.
Palermo had its news while it was still
adding to the count of the 600 dead and
wounded from the previous Sunday’s
American raid. Hitler heard it as he hur-
riedly inspected his western defences,
clouds of four-engined British bombers
roaring over him to blast the middle out
of Duisburg, his greatest inland port,
and to spread further ruin as far afield
as Czechoslovakia Rerlin heard it to
as Czechoslovakia. Berlin ea
the whine of bombs and anxious crowds
rioted. Southern Italy probably i no
hear it at all. There was too much noise.
The echoes of gunfire rolled across the
strait from where the R.N. was stolidly
bombarding Pantellaria and blowing its
mole and harbors to bits. The sound ot
parts of Cagliari flying to pieces was
mingled with the roar of disintegration
from a whole ring of Sicilian ports which
were undergoing a blasting. Stromboli
and Etna were poor performers beside
the R.A.F. and their Allies of the U.S.F.
last week.
Four million Italians are packed into
the less than 10,000 square miles of Sicily,
~ ’ - T ■ . onnA
another million of them into the 9000
square miles of Sardinia. Those among
them who are getting any sleep must be
heroes. And towards the week-end the
campaign was being extended to the toe
of Italy, now almost isolated from Sicily
by the masters of the skies operating over
the Messina Strait.
“Unconditional surrender” was the
unconamonai surienaer was uic
word when the beaten commanders tried
to parley ; and unconditional surrender
it was. Their ’planes were fought out of
the sky. Their ships were driven off the
t t'l J. U t> _ T ;
face of the waters wherever the Royal
Navy could reach them.
Awed European radios continue to
report amazing British shipping concen-
trations at Malta. Last week German
, e j. • „ mo
and Scandinavian agencies mentioned
new ones, wh.ch included the battleships
King George V and Nelson, t e
aircraft - carriers Forrnida ole and
Furious, 16 British destroyers, one U.S.
and one Polish destroyer and 50
freighters. According to piecemeal Axis
reports over 200 British ships under naval
convoy have passed the Europa Strait in
a fortnight. And Air Chief Marshal
Arthur Tedder, C.-in-C. of the Allies in
the air in the Mediterranean, told corre-
spondents over the week-end that that sea
was now open for traffic and that British
ships henceforward could use it safely.
"Gusty Weather—No Big
Storms."
“Ek Dum”: The situation in the
Pacific is about the most peculiar which
has occurred in a war of the continents
since Napoleon’s time.
Huge land forces, possibly 300 divi-
sions trained or partially trained, navies
running into hundreds of ships and thou-
sands of aircraft are almost immobilised,
while at the corhers of a great basin, mil-
lions of square miles in extent, a few air
squadrons and a few troops are locked
in deadly but desultory scratching
matches —in Burma, as the Irwin force
withdraws from the waterlogged Mayu
country; in South China, where the
fighter-escorted squadrons of Chennault’s
14th Air Force blasted a Canton aircraft
assembly plant and drove “O” fighters
out of the sky and half a dozen of them
to destruction; in the Yangtze Kiang
country, where a swaying,' hole-in-corner
sort of fight continued for the local rice
crop; in the South-west Pacific, where
raids and sorties on a nibbling scale have
been diversified by a couple of more sub-
stantial enemy raids; in the North
Pacific, in the U.S. expeditions against
Japanese bases ; in all seas, the ceaseless
hunt of the submarine and of the counter-
submarine units. An Allied submarine
actually bombarded the coastline of Hok-
kaido, Japan’s northernmost isle.
The atmosphere last week was sinister
and gusty, but there were no real storms.
About the U.S. landing at Attu, one
of the Aleutians, little was known at the
week-end. Washington announced that
U.S. forces had landed there on May 11,
and Colonel Knox called the venture a
joint Army and Navy affair without
marines.
Berlin said the landing was made in
a dense fog by an American force
numerically superior to the Japanese, and
that the struggle for possession was still
in progress on the evening of May 14.
There is 2000 miles of water, fog-bound,
ice-sown, between Attu and Japan.
In the South-west Pacific there has been
evidence that the submarine menace is
far from finished.
Early last week it was announced that
Admiral Halsey, commanding in the
South Pacific, had visited General Mac-
Arthur. There were many interpretations
of this move, but no obvious support for
most of them.
Allied air raiding in the South-west
Pacific Area was widespread and copious,
but not very heavy by comparison with
earlier attacks. Between May 11 and
May 16 communiques reported 57 raids
ranging from the fringes of the Dutch
East Indies to Rabaul.
Caldwell on Spitfires
Towards the week-end enemy air
activity increased considerably, though
early in the week nine “O” fighters made
a first enemy attempt to raid the air strip
at Millingimbi, near the mouth of the
Goyder, in Arnhem Land. Five Spitfires
and a Beaufighter tackled the invaders
in an unequal battle fought while they
were making height. Three “Os” were
shot out of action and two more
damaged, and a Spitfire was lost. Off
the coast a convoy drove off an enemy
attack with its own ack-ack fire and
damaged an aircraft.
Squadron-Leader Clive Caldwell, who
has been fighting with a Spitfire unit at
Darwin and who has shot down four
“O” fighters, is reassuring about the rela-
tive methods and quality of Germans and
Japanese. He declared to Sydney re-
porters that the Japs are not as deter-
mined as the German pilots, and that the
“Os” and “Oos” are “not in the race
with any German fighter”:
The “Os” are very manoeuvrable at
low speeds, but we pull the cork out and
chase them all over the sky. The only
thing wrong with combat flying in Aus-
tralia is that there is not enough action,
■and constant practice is essential to every
fighter pilot. It may be part of the Jap
technique to make us careless so that we
become easy targets. We have to shadow-
spar all the time to keep in form.
On the same day as the attack on
Millingimbi Allied medium bombers got
some of their own back in a savage
strafe of Babo (D.N.G.), where three
enemy ’planes were shot down and 20
apparently set on fire in crowded dis-
persal bays. Fires started in the wharf-
age and oil-tank area could be seen 80
miles away.
In the New Guinea area Gasmata
(N. Brit.) had most attention. It was
severely pounded seven times in five days,
both by bombers and R.A.A.F. Beaus.
The enemy is evidently determined to
move the Australians out of the Mubo-
Bobdubi district and out of Wau, where
their proximity leads to continual sorties
which have been costing the enemy
dearly. On May 15 it was reported that
20 enemy bombers and 14 fighters had
raided the Wau zone without inflicting
either damage or casualties, and that
sharp clashes had developed during the
morning between land forces, while the
enemy launched a heavy air attack with
about 50 bombers and 15 fighters. There
was no reported Allied air interception
of either of these raids.
A raid on Oro Bay, the Allied base
s.-e. of Buna, ended badly for the
enemy. Lightnings and Kittyhawks inter-
cepted a fleet of 20 bombers and 25
fighters at 20,000 ft. before much damage
had been done, and shot down nine
fighters and seven bombers and prob-
ably destroyed another fighter and seven
bombers. Allied air losses were de-
scribed as “minor.”
The air over the Solomons was lively
throughout the week, the initiative being
largely in U.S. hands. On May 14 U.S.
fighters, near Russell Island, shot down
16 “Os” (of which 15 fell to Corsairs),
apart from two others probably destroyed.
Five U.S. ’planes were lost, but two of
the pilots saved.
Tokyo claimed to have shot down 38
U.S. machines in the fight and to have
done heavy damage to military installa-
tions on Guadalcanal on the following
day.
Retirement in Burma.
Further withdrawals were made from
Maungdaw and neighborhood by the
Irwin British-Indian force which invaded
the Mayu Peninsula (Burma), opposite
Akyab, last year.
As the “big rains,” only a fortnight
or so away, will put a great deal or
country recently held by the British force
under water, or cut it off from the rear,
British and Indians alike no doubt fee.


mmm
that the enemy is welcome to the gift —
until next November or December.
Whatever the reaction in the bazaars or
other Asiatic countries, the retirement is
not likely to affect Indian morale
Indians thoroughly understand campaign-
ing seasons, and strategic retirement
from the rains is an immemorial custom.
The Japanese so far have not captured
any territory which they did not hold
last season. The Mayu expedition, what-
ever its failures, paralysed Akyab as an
offensive base throughout the dry season
and diverted the attention of a large
number of the enemy from the frontal
development of General Wavell’s jump-
ing-off places along the only practical
main routes into Burma in the Manipur
region.
Axis Countries Under Fire.
“Ek Dum”: British bombing, re-
inforced by a U.S. effort still on a lighter
scale, continues to harry Naziland; and
the limits widen every week.
Also, two-engined bbmbers are being
gradually weeded out of attack forces—
apart from the newest and fastest craft,
Mosquitoes and their ilk. Nearly hll the
heavy raiding has become the province
of the four-engined types, Lancasters,
Halifaxes, Stirlings.
The week’s greatest raid —the greatest
of the war —was an attack on battered
Duisburg on the Rhine. Over this chief
inland port of the Reich 1500 tons of
bombs were dropped in three-quarters
of an hour on the morning of May 12.
Not much of the salient parts of Duis-
burg was left after the visitation. The
blazing town could be seen by homing
rear-gunners from over the Zuyder Zee,
150 miles away. The flak fire was mod-
erate ; not so fighter defence, and 34
bombers were lost. In the 1000-’plane
raid on Cologne on May 30, 1942, the
loss was 44 bombers.
On Thursday the raids extended from
Cherbourg to Czechoslovakia. Bochum
and the centre of Berlin were attacked
by the R.A.F., which again lost 34
bombers.
Heavier U.S. forces than had pre-
viously been seen in northern Europe—
the largest previous U.S. bombing force
to leave Britain numbered 113—blasted
Kiel and Emden. For the last three days
of the week the whole sky for 250 miles
from the Channel eastward was full of
blood and fire, involving every conceiv-
able type of target —factories, trains,
ports, troops and enemy fighters, of
which six were shot down in a single dog-
fight when escorted Mitchells attacked
Boulogne railway yards. Two British
fighters and a bomber were lost.
It was announced officially on May 16
that, in 72 hours, 8000 tons of bombs had
been dropped on enemy targets. And
there was a new development—ventures
by British Whirlwind fighters across the
German border, 300 miles from the Eng-
lish coast.
The list of targets raided in those
three days by Allied Air Forces was
imposing:
Berlin (twice by Mosquitoes), Kiel,
Emden, Duisburg and Bochum (Ruhr);
Velsen (Netherlands); Antwerp (Belgium);
Pilsen (Czechoslovakia); Boulogne, Cher-
bourg, Abbeville, St. Omer, Meaulte, Caen,
Poix, Tricqueville and Courtrai (France);
Civita Vecchia —a port of Rome n.-w. of
Tiber’s mouth —Naples, Reggio (Calabria),
Gallipoli (Italy); Cagliari, Alghero, Olbia,
Sassari (Sardinia); Palermo, Messina, Mar-
sala and Augusta (Sicily); Pantellaria
Island and shipping in the iEgean and
lonian seas and close along the Norwegian
coasts. Raids spread over nearly 2,000,000
square miles of land and sea.
A strange feature of the week’s air
fighting was the small German fighter-
bomber raids on southern English towns.
A group of 20 FWl9o’s were headed
off by Army Co-operation units when they
attacked an East Anglian coastal town
on May 11. One enemy machine was
destroyed and several damaged, but not
before some bombs had been dropped
and 11 Women Territorial Auxiliaries
killed in a wrecked building. The raiders
gunned the streets and hit a bus full
of workers.
By next day there had been five raids
in the same locality. Berlin reported
noisily that Great Yarmouth had been
attacked for the second time during a
week, and that heavy bombs caused
great damage and many fires. Later,
Berlin claimed the bombing of Chelms-
ford. Again the scale of the raid was
magnified. The attacks seemed to be
designed to cheer cringing Germans,
rather than to attempt any real damage,
and they continued till the end of the
week, on a thin scale. Several more Axis
’planes were shot down.
At the week-end raiders killed several
people in Sunderland, but they lost four
aircraft.
Cooks 1 Tour with Mors.
“Ek Dum”: Happy events in Tunisia
have led to happier ones in the circles in
which amateur strategists and commen-
tators foregather. They and the Corns,
become hysterical almost as much in vic-
tory as in defeat, and they have
made great fireworks all the week with
their two chief illuminants —the words
“may” and “probably.”
The Channel coast of France or the
Low Countries has a most eager coterie
of light-hearted backers as a main entry
point, as it seems to be conceded in the
best A.S. circles that whatever happens
in Italy could only be a sideshow.
On the Channel the Nazis would be
able to use their air force against both
coasts —the British coast and the coast
on which the invasion was being
attempted. But it is taken for granted (in
A.S. circles) that there is no Axis air
force left worthy of the name.
Where Is the Luftwaffe?
This might give a thoughtful man
pause. If the condition of the Luftwaffe
is what it appears to be from its con-
spicuous absences from various points,
Germany must indeed be in a bad way.
But the same phenomenon was notice-
able about the whole German war effort
when it was being concentrated for the
blow against the Low Countries and
France.
The disappearance of the Luftwaffe
is too complete to be convincing. While
the Axis army in Tunisia was being
broken Goring’s vultures in the Medi-
terranean area were in contemptibly
small force. Their operations along
the Channel have been next to nothing.
Moscow reports nightly that the Red
Army is able to raid freely behind the
German lines, and that it has complete
air superiority; the Russian Air Force
meets little opposition from German
fighter craft even in front battle lines.
Despite this, new German types have
been seen in various theatres —types
consistent with an aerial revolution in
Germany similar to that elsewhere.
It is known that Germany was build-
ing 2500 to 3000 machines of all types
per month at the end of 1941 and was
capable of extending this output, subject
to raw materials, most of which are
available.
Italy’s production was not small. And
losses in Tunisia, though heartening to
our side, scarcely amounted to a German-
Italian wastage nearly catching up with
the production potential. Losses in
western Europe have been relatively light
in combat.
It is on the cards that the Axis is har-
vesting its air-power and its flying man-
power for a main effort; or perhaps it
merely has to carefully harvest aviation
fuel. Whatever the cause, it is difficult
to believe that German air-power has
collapsed like a house of cards.
U-boats First
The man-power problem fills the A.S.-es
also with optimistic thoughts. In trained
fighting numbers, though the scale has
turned against the Axis, it has not yet
turned decisively. It has turned only to
the point at which the enemy’s ratios are
going to the bad so that he can no longer
afford a long war. He must win quickly
or find himself in a desperately inferior
position in a year or so, provided the
United Nations can overcome their great
bottleneck —shipping shortage in relation
to the ships needed for the invasion of
Europe. The decisive factor here is the
U-boat campaign ; and this makes the
sea war the crucial war; the war which
is the Axis shield ; the only campaign by
which Hitler and his allies could avert
defeat; the one in which defeat means
swift and ignominious disaster for them.
Provided the United Nations can be
prevented for the present from develop-
ing sufficient shipping to serve a great
invasion of the Continent and at the same
time supply needs in the Pacific, which
will grow enormously in the next few
months if Japan expands its effort, Ger-
many can continue to have for some time
trained man-power and resources in Con-
tinental Europe greater than those of
any other Power.
Still 8,000,000
The New York “Times” on March 23
reported that authoritative British
sources, having made an over-all survey
of the German military, industrial and
morale situation, had concluded that:
(1) Germany showed no sign of cracking.
(2) Nazi positions were apparently strong
enough to preclude any likelihood of an
early end to the war.
(3) Hitler’s machine will function right
up until the day, perhaps even to the very
hour, when it goes dead.
This information “probably was the
basis for Mr. Churchill’s statement
that the war in Europe might last until
1945.”
The German Army (it was said) still
numbered 7,500,000 to 8,000,000 men,
assuming that German casualties in killed
and captured had reached 5,000,000 since
the beginning of the war—a highly opti-
mistic casualty figure.
It was estimated that 2,000,000 Ger-
mans coming of military age had been
called to the colors since 1939 and that
balance of the losses had been made up
by calling upon reserve classes since those
of 1925 and 1926.
The Russian Campaign
One thing is certain —that Germany
has not been crippled militarily by the
Russian campaign ; nor can the bombing
of German factories have an immediate
result upon the Axis front-line supplies
unless the exhaustion is far greater than
has been calcinated.
It was pointed out in B. 17/3/’43 that
“the front from Moscow southward is
shaping itself into two huge, tough
German claws formed along the Vitebsk -
Gomel-Bryansk-Orel railway systems on
top, and along the Taganrog-Stalino-
Kharkov-Kiev system below. The direc-
tions in which these giant hands stretch
out are converging towards the north-
east.” It was suggested that the direction
of the lines of greatest weight might point
to a double drive to the Volga at Saratov
and a cutting off of Moscow’s eastward
supply routes to all the fighting fronts.
The two German claws are now the
centre of attention.
The rest of the German line has been
designed to hold as many Russian troops
as possible as far away as can be from
the two concentration points and to re-
lease as many Axis troops as possible
to those points.
At Leningrad, where the corridor
opened to the outside world must be kept
open by the Soviet forces, there was a
minor offensive on May 15. In the
Kuban, the enemy might be leading the
Russians away from the line of a new
drive to cut off Caucasian oil from the
Red Army.
The strategy of the position in Russia
favors the enemy—such factors as com-
munications and terrain are on his
side. It remains to be seen whether
he can exploit his advantages or whether
the Russians can forestall him.
If Italy Falls
Assuming that German morale is at
least in a passable condition for the
present and might be improved by
quick and solid successes in Russia, the
worst feature of the position which
stares Germany in the face is the situa-
tion in Italy.
With persistence of the present abso-
lute command of air and sea in the Medi-
terranean, there is little doubt that, with
reasonable preparation, the Allies can in-
vade Italy. There is no doubt, also,
that their invasion points are in that part
of Italy in which the inhabitants are
most notorious for their distaste for fight-
ing, and which it would be most difficult
for the Germans themselves to defend.
There are rumors of impending
Governmental changes, even of the abdi-
cation of the King, and one needs only
to hear the cries of Rome Radio to rea-
lise how low Italian morale is falling.
Berlin might not think it worth while
to defend Italy if it needed defending.
To be rid of Italy would be to be rid of
the necessity of feeding Italian industry
with 12,000,000 tons of coal per annum.
It would relieve a tremendous strain on
the strategic railways and waterways and
mines of central and western Europe. It
would throw on to the shoulders of the
Allies the task of feeding and clothing
44,000,000 distracted people in a state
of revolutionary turmoil.
True, it also would give the Allies a
solid footing on the Continent, some in-
dustrial plants and many good harbors;
but the strain upon their shipping in the
process of using the advantages thus
gained would have a strong compensatory
effect in favor of the Axis.
German lines of defence would be
shortened. The mountainous approaches
to both France and Germany from Italy
and the Adriatic coast present monstrous
difficulties to invaders. The passes are
few and limited in capacity.
In the last war the Germans fought
Italy, France, Russia and the English-
speaking nations, and had few foreign-
conscript resources in man-power.
It is possible that German morale will
be broken by the ever-increasing bombing
of its cities. Meanwhile Germany still
seems able to take the offensive against
the chief continental Allied land power
and the war against the U-boats has yet
to be won.
Danger in the East
At Washington, where the makers of
strategy have been assembling, there are
sufficient indications that Russia and
Japan are both much in the minds of
the leaders of the Allied nations and
repeated hints that strategy may be tend-
ing toward action in the Pacific.
Litvinov is in Moscow with Mr.
Davies, a special emissary from President
Roosevelt; and Lord Beaverbrook is in
Washington with Mr. Churchill. Davies
and Beaverbrook are supposed to
be deeply in favor at the Kremlin. And
there is the sudden start of an American
offensive in the Aleutians.
No one among the Washington pro-
phets has*so far linked the suggested
alteration of plans with General Tojo’s
threat at Manila on May 5.
It does not, indeed, seem to have
occurred to anybody that any change
of mind at H.Q. about the Pacific could
arise from anything but a vast and happy
improvement in the situation in Europe
caused by the Tunisian victory—that
projected Japanese action, becoming
known, might have compelled the High
Command to give more attention to the
situation in the Pacific.
A defeat of Russia, with no Allied
force on the Siberian mainland, could
in a few short weeks shift the whole
centre of the war vortex dangerously.
British and American leaders must
naturally be keen on securing a foothold
in Eastern Asia on Russian soil as part of
a plan for victory in the Pacific and as
an insurance against dangerous possibili-
ties, even if remote possibilities.
Whatever they aim for they will not
tell. So far the secrets of the Churchill-
Roosevelt combination have been well
kept.
In brief:
The King, decorating Fremantle-born Group-
Captain Hughie Edwards, V.C., D.F.C., with
a D. 5.0., said: “You are the first man in
this war to win these three medals. I con-
gratulate you.” To which congratulations every
Australian will add his or her own.
* * * *
The Admiralty reports the loss of H.M.S.
Packenham, a war-time vintage destroyer. On
May 16, loss of H.M. submarine Splendid,
which had sunk four fully-laden tankers off
Tunisia, was admitted. Rome declared that
survivors from the gallant craft had been
rescued and were prisoners.
* * * *
An “authoritative” statement issued in
London confirms the German admission that
Atlantic sinkings by U-boats in April were
much below those in March and declares that
the improvement continued in May. But
“heavy” U-boat attacks are since reported,
and a revival of the campaign is expected
next month.
# * * *
S. Africa entered a new war zone—out of
Africa —last week when the Sixth S.A.
Armored Division joined General Maitland
Wilson’s Middle Eastern Army Group. Apro-
pos, the South African election is to be held
in July.
* * * *
Without suffering damage or casualties
British light naval forces under Lieut. Peter
Dickens, R.N., sank two 600-ton enemy tor-
pedo boats off the Dutch coast in a lively
battle of small fry on May 13.
)fc $ * *
Among several hundred British prisoners
freed by Italy last week on exchange were 53
Australians —23 medical cases and 30 “pro-
tected personnel,” of whom 28 belonged to
2/Bth Field Ambulance unit taken prisoner by
the Germans near Derna in Rommel’s first
advance on April 7, 1941.


BILLABONG
HAND, POWER
AND
hydraulic pumps
mmm
DESIGNED TO
MEET THE
STATION OWNER’S
ancf
Farmer's Requirements
SEND TO THE MAKERS FOR ALL
PARTICULARS
JOHN DANKS & SON
Ply. Ltd.
391-403 BOURKE STREET, MELBOURNE
And at 324-330 PITT STREET, SYDNEY
Personal and Missing Friends.
Will MISS KATHERINE RYAN, originally
of Naringal, near Warrnambool, Victoria, but
later of Melbourne, please communicate with
the Public Curator of Queensland, Brisbane,
relative to her brother Michael John Ryan?
Divorce Notice.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES— In Divorce.
TO GEORGE DAVID WEBB late of Parra-
matta New South Wales.—TAKE NOTICE
that NELLIE MAY WEBB has filed a petition
for Divorce No. 2524 of 1942 on the ground of
desertion without just cause or excuse for three
years and upwards You may enter an appear-
ance at the Divorce Office Supreme Court
King Street Sydney by the Thirtieth day of
June 1943 and obtain a copy of the Petition
from A. ALISTER JOHNSON & McDONALD
Solicitors 17 Bolton Street Newcastle or their
Agents JOHN CORCORAN & Co. Solicitors
Assembly Hall 2 York Street Sydney. —(l.s.)
C. K. BODY, Registrar in Divorce.
EVERY MARRIED MAN
Bhould be insured. A few shillings a week put away regularly now will buy a surprisingly
large amount of security for your dependants in the event of your death., By taking out an
endowment policy you can ensure against want in your own and your wife s old age.
Australasian
CATHOLIC
Assurance
COMPANY, LTD.
“THE A.C.A”
has ample funds *.o meet claims, and is now paying liberal bonuses
in both the Industrial and Ordinary Departments. For review or
actuary’s report see “Bulletin,” 26/1 /’ 38.
All Classes of Assurances Effected.
Head Office: A.C.A. Building, 66 King Street, Sydney.
E. J. Mooney, Managing Director.
P. J. Ryan, Secretary.
Branch, Offices:
Victoria: A.C.A. Building, 118-126 Q-uebn Street, Melbourne.
Queensland: A.C.A. Building, 270 Queen Street, Brisbane,
South Australia: Bank op N. S. Wales Chambers, 12 Kino William Street, Adelaide.
Western Australia: Warwick House, St. George’s Terrace, Perth.
District Offices and, Agencies Throughout the States.
SPORTING NOTIONS
(Conducted by "PILOT")
Attendance at the Victoria Park races
at Randwick on Saturday was 13,000
without service men—below attendances
even at suburban courses recently.
Dewar, Rimveil and Magi, placed in the
Zetland Stakes, came from near the rear
of the field. Dewar was a long last at the
half-mile, but gathered speed quickly
from the turn and caught Rimveil right
on the winning-post. Dewar now will
carry 9st. 31b. in the Newcastle Cup, 191 b.
more than he had at Randwick, but his
sprint win suggests he has never been
better. Both Rimveil and Dewar inter-
fered with Magi close to the post and
knocked her out of her stride, but it is
doubtful whether she would have beaten
either even with a clear run. Magi’s fin-
ishing burst probably had ended as the
two bigger horses cannoned into her. Hall
Stand again showed his speed, but fin-
ished very little better than at his three
previous starts. Now he will be allowed
an easy time, without being sent for a
spell. Winnipeg finished fifth and should
win suburban'sprints before long.
A year ago, when Boorchief won four
of his six races as a two-year-old, his
trainer, H. Darwon, regretted that the
colt had not been entered for the A.J.C.
Derby. Boorchief subsequently did not
justify the regret, but he is more than
useful, and he won the Three-year-old
Handicap by five lengths from War Effort
and Temerity. Boorchief had run only
moderately at his more recent starts, but
Darwon believes the colt improves in cold
weather, and Boorchief started equal
favorite at 4to 1. Boorchief is one of
the few Valiant Chief horses racing in
Sydney. His dam, Boorcello, won several
middle-distance handicaps many years
ago. War Effort fought on well; drawn
in a patriotic art union, he has won £Bl7
in prize-money and is improving with
age.
Red Pete galloped up to his track trials
when he won the Turf Club Handicap by
two and a half lengths from the favorite,
Shining Night. Few horses had worked
better at Randwick, but he had shown
no dash in races, and he started only fifth
favorite in a field of six. Red Pete’s
rider, J. Duncan, adopted similar tactics
to those which had won him the Canter-
bury Turf Club Handicap on Cable Boy
a week earlier. Duncan rushed Red Pete
to the leader, Fearless Fox, at the half-
mile, then shot away with a three lengths’
lead at the straight entrance. Shining
Night spoiled his chance by running
towards the rails under pressure. Most
horses, however, are tired when they race
erratically in the last furlong, and Shining
Night would not have won had he run
straight. Fearless Fox tried to lead all
the way, but he seems sluggish after his
recent strenuous racing, and was beaten
before the turn.
• Tribal gave the French horse Genetout
his first success as a sire when he won the
Nursery Handicap. When Fine Art was
scratched, most backers thought Tribal,
on his second to Falcon Knight, would
be favorite, but he started at 8 to 1.
Tribal was first away and, though The
Beacon headed him once or twice before
the turn, shot away in the straight and
won easily from another Genetout colt,
Warlock. Tribal was not sent to the 1942
yearling sales in Sydney because he was
underdeveloped, but he has furnished
into a shapely colt who will win more
races. Star Gold (third) is useful, but has
not shown the extra dash which means
a win instead of a minor placing.
Cheap two - year - olds Flight and
Clarion Call, costing a total of only
130gns., have won over £5OOO in prize-
money between them this season, and
another bargain, Miss Brueghel, won the
Juvenile Handicap on Saturday. Miss
Brueghel cost only 80gns., but she gal-
loped so well before the spring that she
was backed solidly to win the Gimcrack
Stakes. Shy of other horses, Miss Brue-
ghel had not been placed in seven starts
before Saturday, and she had finished
only eleventh at Canterbury a week
earlier. This time she was kept wide of
the field, and finished solidly to beat
Rebekah Degree. Ajixa (favorite), who
is only small, had a long lead at the turn,
but her 9st. stopped her quickly in the
straight. Bronze Orchid (third) was hav-
ing only her second start in a race, and
fought on nicely after chasing Ajixa most
of the way. Like Miss Brueghel, Bronze
Orchid was a brilliant track galloper in
the spring, but after the Gimcrack Stakes
she was given more time to develop.
Etching, a half-brother by Sylvandale
to Reading, won the Novice Handicap
from Bomb and Wilberforce. Bought as
a yearling for 400gns., he has been given
time to develop, and before Saturday had
had only 11 starts in nearly three seasons.
Etching beat only a moderate field, but
finished so gamely that he is likely to
win in better company. Bomb was only
fifth emergency in the original accept-
ances, and was taken to the course on the
almost forlorn hope of getting a start.
Kimbell and St. Elmo had the Welter
Handicap to themselves from the six fur-
longs, but Kimbell was the better stayer
and won by over two lengths, with Vanity
Lady a poor third. Kimbell was bought
for 150gns. by J. Tovey mainly for use
as a sire on a small country property, but
he has won £lOOB for his now owner.
Pinero struck interference at the five fur-
longs, but the trouble did not excuse his
failure. Many Ways narrowly missed
third, and as she has dropped in weights
she is a likely mare to follow in suburban
races up to a mile and a quarter.
* * * *
Burrabil, winner of a Cantala and
Futurity Stakes, but whose age has
caused him to be eliminated from more
than one recent race, returned to form
at Flemington on Saturday. Well backed
for the first Beach Welter, he upset a
plunge on Lugano, who looked like
winning when he shot clear in the
straight, but Burrabil outstayed him.
Appeal, backed confidently by his stable,
and Formidable fell early in the race. W.
Caldow, rider of Appeal, sustained slight
concussion.
Oaks winner Primavera justified her
favoritism for the Bay View Handicap
In a comparatively slowly-run race she
was closer than usual to the leaders at
the turn, and had it won over a furlong
from home. Minor-place getters Chief
Watchman and Millie’s Hope ran well,
but were no match for the winner.
Exactly shaped fairly in fourth position,
but Sea Power and Cloudless disap-
pointed.
Star Boarder and Victory March are
sure to be early National fancies on the
strength of their respective wins in the
Kororoit Hurdle and Spotswood Steeple.
Star Boarder, a winner on the same
course at his previous start, is improving
with each race over jumps, and appreci-
ates a fast pace. He was never a loser
on Saturday, winning impressively from
Merridale and Benghazi, but the last-
named is almost sure to derive benefit
from the race. Victory March outstayed
Bridge of Dee and Solecism after the last-
named had looked to have the Spotswood
Steeple in his keeping. Victory March
was Melbourne’s unluckiest fencer last
winter, finishing second in the G.N. and
Australian steeplechases. On Saturday
he may have been lucky to defeat Bel-
voir, who looked to have the race won
immediately before he broke a leg at the
last fence. Belvoir was destroyed.
A wide barrier position did not prevent
David’s Last from heading Miradale and
Solon in the Seaside Handicap. A re-
markable feature of the race was the fact
that, although an open event, all 34
runners were maidens. Brother Bill
recorded an overdue win in the Gelli-
brand Handicap, and Darraweit improved
on his latest form to defeat Brazen King
and Liege in the second Beach Welter.
* * * *
So few Sydney jockeys are riding well
these days that the suspensions last week
of D. Munro, J. Thompson and T. Web-
ster must be felt seriously. Freedom from
interference, however, is more important
than any standard of horsemanship, and
the stewards have the backing of all ex-
perienced racing men in their campaign
against carelessness. Sometimes a jockey
is not altogether responsible for the inter-
ference which causes his suspension, but
the natural riding tendency is to take a
risk if it can improve a horse’s chance,
and most suspended jockeys know in their
own minds that they have not been
treated harshly.
* * * *
In answer to an inquirer mares were
the first to do better than 1.40 in the
Epsom and Doncaster Handicaps. Djin
Djin did 1.39| in the 1899 Epsom and
Wakeful equalled that time in the 1901
Doncaster. Sarcherie’s is now
second-best for the Doncaster, Mildura
holding the record with 1.35 E In the
first “Sporting Calendar” ever published
in Australia —C. H. Nichols was the com-
piler—mention is made of the fact that
in winning the Forced Handicap at Cam-
den on Oct. 9, 1856, another mare, Dora,
“did the quickest time ever run in the
colony.” She beat Veno in 2.48 for the
mile and a half.
Miscellaneous.
About 40,000 watched the five Mel-
bourne League games. There were 15,000
at Richmond, where the Tigers dodged
along for three quarters and then over-
ran Collingwood to a 13.7-9.12 win.
Carlton accounted for Footscray by 8.18
to 6.10, Melbourne wiped “Sowth” by
15.19 to 12.14, and Essendon put Haw-
thorn through 11.15 to 7.8. At North
Melbourne the home side and St. Kilda
staged a ding-dong last quarter for a
very unusual draw, 8.14 apiece.
* * * *
Manly looks like settling down into
the strongest combination in the Sydney
Rugby Union competition. The Vil-
lagers had little trouble in making it
three wins in a row —Gordon couldn’t
notch a point; 1 9-nil (five tries).
Drummoyne 8, Uni. 5; West 12, Randwick
9; East 10, North 3; S,t. George 6, Parra-
matta 3.
* * * *
Jim Fraser and Billy Fletcher are the
most promising young lightweights now
in Sydney, and both added to their gain
and glory by beating Billy Hamilton and
Jimmy Pearce respectively, at Leichhardt.
Hamilton, who is from Melbourne, met
Fraser in the chief 12-round contest. He
floored his opponent tv/ice with low lefts,
but forceful fighting earned Fraser a de-
cision which was popular and correct.
Pearce, noted for stopping his man early,
was himself stopped in the eighth.
Many hoots were heard when Alabama
Kid (12.6) was adjudged to have out-
pointed Jack McNamee (11.13) at the
Sydney Stadium, and for once on these
occasions they were justified. Though
nearly overwhelmed in the first two
rounds and down in the twelfth, the Aus-
tralian had in the meantime scored con-
sistently with right uppercuts at close
quarters and right leads at long range.
Indeed he was much the better boxer.
Knowing he was behind on points, the
negro attacked savagely from the eighth
onwards, but McNamee kept beating him
to the punch, and he was knocked back
many feet with a right lead on the mark
in the eleventh. With a flurry of fists
the black floored McNamee for “eight”
in the twelfth. That got him the verdict,
but it shouldn’t have done.
FOR MOOREFIELD.
(At Canterbury Park.)
(Before acceptances.)
Trial Stakes: Etching, 1 ; Two-
fold, 2 ; Cape Hero, 3.
Nursery Handicap: Joy giver, 1;
Tribal, 2 ; The Beacon, 3.
Turf Club Flying Handicap:
Hesione, 1 ; Winnipeg, 2 ; Arahura,
3 • •
Moorefield Handicap: Haridelle,
1 ; Moondarewa, 2 ; Wellesley, 3.
Highweight Handicap: St. Elmo,
1; Petruchio, 2 ; Irish Sea, 3.
Brighton Handicap: Response,
If Many Ways, 2 ; Boorchief, 3.


Woman's Letters.
From Sydney
The meeting-place for half Sydney last
week was the china and glassware exhi-
bition. This influx was not confined to
the day of the opening by Lady Wake-
hurst, but every day gazers came in
hundreds. The Alexander Gordon lady,
sitting one day at the door “clocking
them in,” confessed to being weary by
the time over a thousand were notched
up. Admission was a silver coin, and, as
the average was possibly a shilling a
head, the takings could not be regarded
as contemptible. Barbara Knox, Janet
Stephen, Evelyn Tildesley and Mrs.
Zander were kept busy explaining and
answering questions.
Mary Irvine, who has one of Sydney’s
best collections, was a knowledgeable
visitor who could tell the differences in
the glazes of the different Chinese
dynasties. A Limoges tea service, not a
chip out of it, after being used for over
20 years by the Fairfax lady, was a
prized lot. The average housewife’s
principal feeling was one of mystifica-
tion. How on earth had the wealth of
Venetian, Waterford and Bohemian been
preserved? Evidently once upon a time
there was such a thing as a neat-handed
Phillis. Max Lawson auctioned the loot
yesterday. It is estimated that three to
four thousand pounds will result for the
prisoners of war.
The N.E.S. march through the city was
a good show, every branch of N.E.S.
stepping out in the parade which started
in Macquarie-street and made its way
down Martin-place and along George-
street to the Town Hall. It was led by
the chief warden, and was proudly re-
viewed by Minister for N.E.S. Heffron,
Sydney’s Mayor Bartley and importants
of the fighting services. Six bands played
the marchers along to the Town Hall,
where speeches rounded off proceedings.
The greatest show in town last week
was the Boy Scouts’ exhibition. It was
opened by Lord Wakehurst, Chief Scout
in N.S.W., and hundreds of Scouts, their
parents, sisters, Cub brothers and friends
were there to applaud when the Gover-
nor declared that Scouting was making a
substantial contribution to the war effort.
The galleries of the Education Depart-
ment were filled with treasure that might
make the eyes of even Fenimore Cooper
shine with delight. There were tents,
’planes and totem poles (carved and
colored and inscribed with the achieve-
ments of the different companies); there
was a guide to tracking—very useful for
bush walkers. The signs are mostly
arrows and twigs. Such important news
as “water ahead” was conveyed by two
wavy lines and an arrow head.
Pride of place in the first gallery was
given to the canoe entirely made by
Scouts which has navigated over 140
miles of the Nepean. The Sea Scouts
were proud of the large piece of door-
way which was once part of one of the
Jap subs, that ventured into Sydney
Harbor. Miniature “monkey” bridges of
rope or wood looked as effective as their
full-sized brothers have proved in New
Guinea. Sets of doll’s house furniture
made from matchboxes and small
objects entirely made of match sticks
made brave display amid the hundreds of
Cub hobbies. Scout poles were inter-
esting, especially the one with tiny hinged
lids to hollowed cavities which held
iodine, snake antidote, bandage and other
first-aid equipment. Touching entry was
a portrait done by a small Scout of his
big soldier brother who has since laid
down his life in battle.
The members of the Society of Women
Writers are preparing to sheathe the pen
in good time on the morning of May
27. On that day Lady Wakehurst will
be their guest at lunch in the Chelsea
Club, and the time of assembly is
12.45 p.m.
Friends in almost every part of Aus-
tralia will be interested to learn of Betty
Tilley’s engagement to Lieut. Mitchell
Lewington. Betty is the only daughter of
the Frank Tilleys, of Killara, and her
affianced is the only son of the Clive
Lewington couple, of Lindfield. Her
only brother is with the R.A.A.F., and
she herself has been very busy as
Assistant Superintendent Red Cross Aux-
iliary Transport—no light job. Lieut.
Lewington has served with the A.I.F. in
the Middle East.
Next Friday is a date to be remem-
bered. At three o’clock on that day
(the 21st) Premier McKell will open the
Fairfax Institute of Pathology at the
Royal Prince Alfred Hospital. Immedi-
ately following, Minister for Health
Kelly will open the new workshops at
the same address. And after that all
invited will be the guests of the chair-
man and directors of the hospital at
afternoon tea.
Peace and a smiling quiet breathe from
the water-colors of Robert Campbell,
whose show has been running at the
Macquarie Galleries. They are as full
of nature as a Wordsworth poem. The
landscape and weather are Tasmanian,
for the artist makes his home in Laun-
ceston. Next show at the Bligh-street
rooms will be by Jean Bellette. Jean,
too, knows Tasmania, having spent some
of her schooldays there. Her show will
be opened by Dr. A. H. McDonald at
the lunch hour, 1.30.
Jean Thompson was one of the four
Wrans sent from Sydney early this year
to take an officers’ training course at a
depot in Victoria. Two of the others,
Joan Furley and Blair M. Williams, were
appointed to Sydney and are stationed at
shore establishments. The fourth, Alice
Gould, in peace-time one of the
city’s most popular amateur actresses,
has been appointed to special work
in Melbourne, where she replaces
an officer gone on sea service. All
the girls who graduated from the
O.T.C. have been promoted to third-
officer, equivalent to sub-lieutenant in
the R.A.N. On duty they answer to
the title of “Madame.” Photograph of
Third-Officer W.R.A.N.S. Thompson
comes from Fox studio.
Pat Rutherford married her Edward
Fairlie-Cuninghame the reception-
rooms of the Rutherford home at Point
Piper last Saturday afternoon. Bride’s
father was Dr. A. H. Rutherford.
’Groom’s father was Sir William
Fairlie - Cuninghame. Canon Barder
blessed the vows.
Has anyone got a spare piano that
works? It’s wanted for the Totally and
Permanently Disabled Soldiers’ Associa-
tion of N.S.W. The clubroom up at
Railway Square already houses one
piano, but, on the say-so of Peter Dawson,
who once tried to sing to its accompani-
ment, it’s a back number.
The clubroom is a daytime home
for a couple of hundred old soldiers —
some of them returned from this war —
who are incapable of any work ; a place
where they can sit and yarn or play
draughts or cards, and get a meal and a
cup of tea in the afternoon. It’s a place
where many of them, unable to travel
alone or to be left without company, can
spend a day while their wives and
mothers go about their business. It’s
doing a grand job. Recently the Red
Cross Society did the rooms out, painted
them and provided some new furniture
and curtains, and the R.S.L. weighed in
with £lOO, but, though it has struggled
along now for close on 11 years, the
association doesn’t benefit from the
annual collections for the United Re-
turned Soldiers’ Fund. It is to get a cut
from the show arranged by George
Nathan’s Boys’ Town committee at
Sydney Sports Ground on Sunday,
June 6.
To actor Bunny Campbell Gray (now
in the Minerva show “Janie”) goes the
credit of organising the meeting to start
Sydney’s Stage Door Canteen. The idea
generally is that a canteen be started and
run for service men by actors of the
theatre, the film and radio. The Sydney
one is to be modelled as much as pos-
sible on the pioneer concern of the kind
in New York. Between £5OOO and £lO,OOO
will be needed to get the canteen going,
but Mr. Gray thinks that this amount
can be got. Big attraction will be a star
actor or actress every day and a staff oi
theatrical entities to serve the lads. A
great crowd buzzed along to the first
meeting last Thursday in the Actors
Equity rooms in Pitt-street, Lloyd
Lamble, Thelma Scott and Marion Johns
among them. Most listeners know the
radio song “He left his heart at the stage-
door canteen.” Bunny says hearts and
even kitbags can be left in perfect safety
at the Sydney one when it starts.
From Melbourne
The war has brought a decided urge to
improve the mind. Playreading groups,
concerts and art shows are becoming
more popular, and a packed house at any
sort of cultural function, however high
or deep, is nothing to be surprised about.
The Primitive Art Exhibition at the
National Gallery brought a stream of pil-
grims, in little trickles at all hours of
the several days it was on, to the Latrobe
Gallery. Amateur anthropologists had
a lengthy commentary and a foreword by
Daryl Lindsay (emphasising the aesthetic
qualities of the exhibits) to chew over
in the guide supplied. The more frivolous
wondered whether “figure of a woman,
Sepik River” was more like Dean Swift
or Charles Laughton, and were tickled by
a piece in the guidebook explaining that
her legs were used for hanging meat on.
Incidentally, primitive artists have abso-
lutely no gallantry. The female is always
pictured at her worst.
The entertainment of sick soldiers is
not being forgotten. Following the
“White Horse Inn” cast’s show last week
the Red Cross Transport Section took
out its concert party (which raised £350
for Prisoners of War last year) to amuse
the men at an A.G.H. Mr. Borovansky,
who acted as adviser and friend last year
(lending his studio for both rehearsals
and performance), went out with the show
and gave a classical ballet item. Trans-
port girls led by Mrs. Eccles Mackay
gave a jolly performance, rehearsals for
which meant the sacrifice of most of the
lassies’ leisure hours, the majority hav-
ing full-time jobs as well as doing trans-
port work.
Pictured here by Broothorn, Mrs.
Norman Picot, hon. organiser of the
American Ball. She promises a really
good show on July 3, emphasis being
put on an exceptionally bright supper
cabaret. Jolly sideshows will go on all
the evening coincidentally with dancing,
and one prize will be a short-wave radio
that must be carried off then and there
by the lucky winner. This is the twelfth
year that American women resident in
Melbourne have organised this ball for
their children’s hospital ward, and now
that this city knows so much more about
American ways it is realised that holding
the ball on or about the Glorious Fourth
has involved no small personal sacrifice
on the part of the organisers.
A help towards keeping sick lads
happy is the hospital paper “Corroboree,”
written by patients and published with
the help of the Army Education Service.
In these days getting a group of the
human species together produces a paper
in no time, whether they’re at the South
Pole or in the middle of the Sahara or
just convalescing in a hospital. The hos-
pital’s paper, among its other functions,
writes up all the doings in the way of
entertainment, and the men are able to
write in about their views on musical
programmes, films and plays. Gossip
from each ward is recorded in a special
column and each group gives its weekly
news, “the pretty new sister we’ve got in
our ward” being a favorite note, with
drawings of the admired young woman
by the ward’s artistic talent.
An experiment in co-operative living is
being made by some of this State’s muni-
tion workers. After running up against
the problem of accommodation pretty
frequently when members were going on
holiday, the factory social club suggested
raising funds to provide a holiday spot
for members. Result was a queen carni-
val. which raised over £7OO. With organ-
ising aid of welfare officers, who prove
their usefulness by services like these, a
house has been leased at Kalorama, a
village on the side of Mt. Dandenong
and one of the loveliest of the hilly holi-
day places. Families as well as indivi-
duals will be able to take advantage ot
the house. It’s been suggested for some
time by those connected with school
bodies that country schools could be used
as holiday houses while schools are on
vacation, and it won’t be surprising if
this proposal is brought up again, with
practical results.
Autumn seems to be the riding season,
and at the week-ends the country roads
are lined with little groups of riders
trotting single file along the soft side
tracks. For those who can’t leave town
there’s the tan around Government
House, looking its best with yellowing
elms meeting overhead. It’s a popular
spot these days, as Allied service men are
enthusiastic riders and “horses for two”
is a favorite way of entertaining the lass
of the moment. In the less crowded
suburbs, with some spacious parks to
spare, gymkhanas are the order of the
day, and there are to be seen scenes
like a country show with horses and
riders, crowds of onlookers and carts
with the daily Dobbin brushed and pret-
tied up in ribbons, with his tail in the
little formal knot working horses wear
on ceremonial occasions.
Education is the topic of the moment
and Melbourne has seen several small
conferences on the theme in the last few
months, closing with an assistant mis-
tresses’ confabulation last week. Now
the Women Graduates’ Association is
planning an extra thorough one for June
4 and 5. Plan is rather new. Eight sub-
jects, including toughies such as “The
place of the private school in a democ-
racy” and “The raising of the status of
the teaching profession,” with more par-
ticularised studies such as “School and
the child’s physique,” are on the agenda,
and those who attend will enrol for the
one they’re interested in. When all the
subjects have been thrashed out findings
will be given at a general meeting of all
groups.
Music-teachers held their conference
last week, time being occupied largely in
demonstrations of teaching methods. The
concert on the opening day at Melba
Hall was delightful. Old English instru-
mental music was played by the Scotch
College orchestra; O’Neill College’s choir
sang the traditional Welsh ballad “Bells
of Aberdovey,” and there was an excur-
sion into medieval plain song. Conference
lecturers surprised their audiences by sug-
gesting bridges between music and lots
of other school departments. “Maths,
and Music,” a description of experiments
in a London school, aroused much in-
terest. Lectures were at Emily McPher-
son College.
The Travellers’ Aid is congratulating
itself on the harvest of Town Hall street
day, nearly the hoped-for maximum of
£3OOO being raised. This will be used
for the organisation’s work with the ser-
vices. It is hoped that further gifts will
come along some time to pay off some
of the debt on the society’s headquarters
building at 235 King-street. War condi-
tions have doubled the usefulness of
Travellers’ Aid. There are more lone
travellers (largely service personnel) and
many more unaccompanied children now
that father is in the forces and mother
has to stay in some country district mind-
ing perhaps some three or four children
while one child has to journey to the
city for medical treatment and the like.
Officials of the society feel so strongly
about the medical care of crippled Chil-
dren that they take these free of any
charge (the society doesn’t worry much
about refunds in any case) in an effort to
impress upon mothers the need for
frequent visits to hospital to have splints
and other curative treatments constantly
attended to.
With the first birthday of Kew Nursery
an event of last week and that of the
South Yarra Nursery a few weeks ahead,
the committee of the Women of the Uni-
versity Patriotic Fund is reviewing the
subject of the creche-nursery and its value
and finding that there is no doubt of its
usefulness in present circumstances.
Roughly 80 children are cared for weekly
in the two Melbourne nurseries at a cost
to their mothers of 10s. a week, which in-
cludes three meals daily. Nurseries will
be established in Hawthorn and Elstem-
wick shortly. There is some debate about
charges, views differing between whether
the present weekly charge is sufficient
or unnecessarily low, in consideration of
the fact that trained kindergarteners have
to be provided. These and other matters
are being reviewed in the light of last
year’s experience.


YOU CAN STILL INVEST
IN NATIONAL SAVINGS BONDS
AND WAR SAVINGS CERTIFICATES
MAKE YOUR MONEY FIGHT
Space by the Manufacturers of
EE
REG?TRADE MARK
SAUCE
the foundations
:• 22
ss?
i^S
S*
Q>
%
-V
V'
m
(m
9&a
for YOUR
POST WAR HOME
SET SAVINGS ASIDE FOR SPENDING i
IN THE PEACEFUL POST-WAR YEARS *
You can’t build now . . . and there’s a limit
to the remodelling you can do. There’s also
a limit to the amount of Cane-ite you can
buy. But there’s nothing to stop you plan*
ning for the time when you can huild and
renovate and modernize with all the Cane-ite
you need. Cane-ite, as you know, is the
perfect insulating hoard, ideal for lining
walls and ceilings.
c
INSULATING BOARD
THE COIONIAL SUGAR REFINING CO. LTD. (Building Materials Division)
Marketing
CANE-ITE ; MASONITE • C.S.R. SLAG-WOOL • PLASTER PRODUCTS
MEDICAL AND DENTAL PLASTERS
INVEST YOUR SA VINES IN WAR BONDS
CA 12-43
SMOKE-OH!
“The top of your head is about the only
part of your body which does not receive exer-
cise.” — Woman’s paper.
So get someone to bump you up and
down on it for five minutes a day.
•i* *i* •J'
“The garden-loving woman is always on the
lookout for an attractive new creeper.”
— Woman’s paper.
Some, however, are still loyal to the
old one, even if he does sneak into a
sunny corner for a read when he thinks
she’s busy inside.
( I’ *l* 4* *!«
“Within two weeks of buying his lucky
charm Horace was engaged.”— Woman's paper .
We’ve never had any luck with the
things, either.
The Eyes Have It.
“Do your eyes go on strike?” asks an
optometrist.
No ; mine work overtime. Even with-
out the aid of glasses (cocktail or beer)
I’m apt to see things in a queer light.
For example, the other evening in the
brownout I handed- my wife into a tram
and kissed the conductress good-bye.
In fact, rather than revolt, my eyes
toil like a couple of non- unionists anxious
to make good. Though only 4ft. Bin.
from the ground, three plonks and a bit
of elbow-room give them the impression
that six-foot sailors in hotel bars are
undersized midgets when an argument
starts. Then everything goes black (in-
cluding both eyes) and I reopen them in
the casualty ward.
It’s amazing, too, how four or five win-
ners stick out in the paper on Friday
night, yet you can’t find so much as a
placed horse in the racebook at the
course next day.
Percival.
•5* *Z* 4* *s*
“Kennedy, who was one of Mayor Brans-
combe’s docile henchmen, had just married for
the fifth time.” — Short story.
A “Yes” man in both senses.
4* 4* 'l* *l*
“The question came in a low, almost in-
audible, whisker. No. 74 looked up, and his
startled gaze fell on the terrible eyes of The
Butcher!”— From a thriller.
A muttonchop whisker, obviously.
t( •!* -I* ►*»
‘Teeth like pearls.”— Woman’s paper.
Have got many a man on a string.
“The man these days who thinks that things
are better left undone is a menace.”
—Radio speaker.
But surely he wouldn’t have a Millions
Club luncheoner keep the bottom button
of his vest done up!
❖
According to a survey of opticians m
America, girls with green eyes make the biggest
appeal to men.” —Melbourne paper.
But they’re not so green as they look.
•i* 4- 4* 4*
At one time the Eire railroad printed jokes
in its timetables.” — “World’s News;’’
Australian travellers find in their time-
tables a complete farce.
It’s Got to Come.
Knowing what Hollywood has done
with other jungle lands, it seems to be
only a matter of time before Dotty
Lamour is foisted on us in some Papuan
'epic. I’d offer the following scenario at
one-fiftieth of the price that will
undoubtedly be paid for the one eventu-
ally chosen.
Unique.
“As he bashed the stones in a quarry, he
pictured himself as a great ballet dancer.”
— “Sun:”
I never thought it possible to dream
About some pre-selected, fancied theme,
Or choose a topic while in slumber
wrapped.
But here’s a case that clearly proves me
wrong.
This wizard chose the lines he’d dream
along
Beforehand —he had day dreams while
he napped!
P. S. C.
Naturally!
Cooks often make the mistake of not treat-
ing the ordinary beef sausage with sufficient
respect.”— Woman’s paper.
Never get rough with a sausage!
Don’t sneer at it, tease it, or grin.
It resents the least touch,
And to batter it much
You would frighten it out of its skin.
GREASY.
Fair Enough!
On pay nights husbands wander home,
Still weary from their toil.
But soon they’re spoiling for a fight.
Because their wives, with might-is-right,
Start fighting for the spoil.
LOOBY.
“PAPUAN PRINCESS” or “JUNGLE
QUEEN.”
Flash! Jungle Queen mounted on a
rock python meets young American com-
mando captain in jeep. Love at first
sight. Commando captain (Errol Flynn)
waves hand, flashes white teeth. Jungle
Queen (Dotty Lamour) swishes grass skirt
and flashes near-white thighs; disappears
up tree. Commandos pass on into jungle.
Flash! Jap sniper drawing a bead on
Flynn. J.Q. sooling her python on Jap.
Flash! Flynn’s jeep bogged in swamp.
J.Q. sends 200 boongs to tow him out,
using the python as a towrope. Flash!
J.Q. captured by Jap patrol. Threatened
with fate worse than death. Registers
distaste (with considerable difficulty).
Flash! Flynn to the rescue! Slays 11
Japs with broken machete. J.Q. sings
“My Jungle Hero from Over the Sea,”
and disappears into jungle.
Flash! Flynn and gallant band
hemmed in by overwhelming force of
Y.Bs. Close-up of Flynn making up his
mind to sell his life dearly (67 for him-
self and 20 for each of his men in his
estimate, but this will leave several thou-
sand unaccounted for. Position seems
hopeless). Flash! Python leads Japs on
wild-goose chase while Dotty shows
Flynn and his men secret path through
swamps. In passing, Flynn (ever obser-
vant) remarks on the absence of mos-
quitoes. Dotty explains this as due to
natural oil floating on the water. Flynn
sets fire to oil and roasts the whole bang
lot of Y.Bs.
Flash! Papuan fire dance. Ballet of
500 boong maidens in grass skirts and
500 commandos with matches that won’t
strike. Fade-out! Jungle Queen and
Flynn sneaking away in jeep. Flash!
J.Q. being decorated with Silver Star,
General MacArthur’s dilemma being to
find something to pin it on. Flynn’s
film knowledge saves the day. Shades of
a Bengal Lancer! The General pins it
on the python!
Final fade-out. Allied troops singing
“The Aussies and the Yanks Want Beer.”
JASBY (A.I.F., N.G.).
SERVICE DEPARTMENT.
Wants.
Words of “My Brother Ben and I,” “The
Face on the Bar-room Floor,” “Dangerous
Dan McGrew” and “Ben Hall’s Last Stand.”
—3342.
Information Sought.
General information on conditions for arti-
ficers in the R.A.N.?
Artificers up to the age of 45 are entered for
naval service provided trade test and medical
examination are passed. Successful applicants
are entered as Acting E.R.A. IV Class. Uni-
i? rm as or P e «y officer, rate of pay being
13s. 2d. a day. Subject to a satisfactory
record of service and passing a professional
examination, ratings in this branch are normally
eligible for promoti<pn to E.R.A. IV Class
after 12 months’ service. After two years’ sat-
isfactory service from date of entry, and subject
to passing a professional examination, an
E-R.A. IV Class may be promoted to E.R.A.
11l Class. Uniform in this class is as for
chief petty officer, the rate of pay being 14s.
a day. Marriage and child allowance is paid
in respect to married personnel, in addition
to the daily rates. Deferred pay at the rate of
2s. 3d. for Acting and E.R.A. IV Class and
2s. 7d. for E.RA. 11l Class is credited in
addition to the normal daily rates of pay.
(1) If a wife obtains a cash order on her own
signature without the consent or knowledge of
her husband, is he liable for the debt? (2)
Does this also apply to moneylenders?
(1) Husband is not liable. (2) Position is the
same. They are both moneylending trans-
actions.
Brief Answers.
J.E.: Oldfield caught Hobbs for 0, off Gregory,
in the first innings of the fifth Test played at
Sydney in 1925... .W.H.: The address of the
“Fruit World” is 8-10 Orr-street, Melbourne.
J.C.: A panzer division is a German force
consisting usually of 400-480 tanks with their
crews, artillery, mechanised support battalions,
motorised scouts and engineer, signal and air
units.. . .W.E.R.: The typical Turk is ‘dark
and olive-skinned, but some of the tribes are
fair-haired and blue-eyed N.S.: If you have
spare copies of that publication, communicate
with the hon. secretary of the Naturalists’
Society of N.S.W H.K.: A threepenny piece
weighs 20 grains, sixpence weighs 40 grains
and a shilling weighs 80 grains... .D.F.R.: It
is a common fault, when yoking a field team,
to have the chains drawn up by the back
band, with the result that they drag the weight
down on the horse’s back, often causing pain-
ful sores A. 8.: Jettison is the act of throw-
ing overboard, in time of peril, any goods
which hazard the ship’s safety W.L.: More
than two-thirds of Australia’s snakes are
venomous M. 0.: The Society of Australian
Genealogists, 19 Phillip-street, Sydney, could
probably help you TJ.: A mercantile marine
has no special uniform J.R.: Charles Martel
—Charles the Hammer—checked the Moorish
invaders of France in a.d. 732....Y.0.: Doses
should not be increased, as the mixture you
mention contains weak poisons and if given
too liberally might kill the sheep.
Answers to Correspondents
Name and address must appear on the MS. No
liability is undertaken re contributions voluntarily
submitted; and no MS. unit be returned unless
stamps accompany. MS. should be addressed to
the Editor.
The Muse aroused: —
D.R.:
He’s the man we all admire;
He’s like the engines, full of fire;
He’s the man to lay the whip on
Fiendish scum of treaeh’rous Nippon.
Engines puffing, puffing engines,
Listen to their lay:
“Doug Mae Arthur, Doug MacArthur I”
That is what the engines say.
. ...H.W.: “Stinkwort Farm” doesn’t convey
the full beauty of the title E. 8.: “Strains of
yesterday” describes it P.R.: Come out of
the clouds G.T.: Before you start on your
next poem take a deep breath... .M.G.: For
a religious paper... .J.H.W.: What have you
added to Polonius 7....G.5.M.: “I Watched.”
We waited. Nothing happened... .L.L.: They
lack form and c010r....J.8.8.: “Where deeper
depths deeper become” is too deep altogether.
J.F.: “Marred” seems unnecessarily
bitter M.M.F.: Lightweights M.R.G.:
“Dope” doesn’t rhyme with “smoke”
S.P.: Not a bad beginning for a poem, but
where’s the poem? F.R.C.: Your meta-
phors are hopelessly mixed M.C.H.: Try
a woman’s paper R.E.8.: Much too slight.


THE OTHER FELLOW'S MIND
The contributor placed first is paid
4£d. per line; all others 2£d. per line.
Legal Phraseology
Having occasion to renew a lease, I
bought a form, and found it to be a long
splurge of unpunctuated medieval ver-
biage. This obscure and antiquated
phraseology is found not only in lease
forms but in all legal documents.
It is time agreements were drawn up
in clear, simple terms, so that all persons
may understand to what they are com-
mitting themselves before signing.
Especially is this necessary in these
days when so many men are away with
the fighting forces, and more and more
women have to shoulder business respon-
sibilities to which they are quite un-
accustomed. Why add to their perplexi-
ties with these silly complicated phrases?
—Soldier’s Wife (Q.).
The Soldier and His Pay
What put the idea into “A.S.B.’s” head
(B. 21/4/’43) that the highest wage a
married private can receive is 17s. 6d.
weekly?
I’m a married private, and I draw £1
Is. a week. There’s also “specialist’s” pay
to be considered. A married “specialist”
private can collect various additions to
the basic rate.
Finally, does “A. 5.8.” know of any
married man on the basic wage who,
after paying all living expenses, is left
with a guinea each week to his own
cheek? — Zend Avesta (Q.).
Loading of S.A. Water Rates
An unprecedented charge has been laid
on settlers in irrigation areas in S.A.,
mostly Diggers from the last war, by
having their water rates increased to pro-
vide guards for the pumping plants. No
other section of the community has been
specially rated in this way.
The people who use the bridge over
the Murray don’t pay for the guards, and
my local pub hasn’t sustained a special
tax on its beer to pay for the one or two
military police who are sometimes on
duty.
One or two members in the Assembly
are still fighting to have the tax abolished,
but without success so far. The three
main users of water in the area are the
Commonwealth Government, the per-
petual leaseholders and the Diggers on the
fruit blocks, but it is only the Diggers
who pay the tax.
The people who use trains or civil
’planes are not specially taxed to pay for
the military guards, so why should men
who fought for Australia in the last war
be singled out for a special tax to pay the
State Government for guarding its own
property? — Camsa (S.A.).
Post-war Migration
After the war the redistribution of the
population of the Empire will be a matter
of urgent importance.
At the moment two-thirds of the Eng-
lish-speaking people under the British flag
live in a tiny island, an indefensible
distribution.
This war has finally exploded the
tradition that England should be a
workshop and the Dominions the centres
of farm production. Pre-war economic
interrelationships cannot be maintained.
The fact that, because of a falling birth-
rate, the white population as a whole may
not increase is no argument against the
redistribution of Empire population.
For humanitarian reasons alone, the
Dominions should be regarded as a logi-
cal home for the war orphans of Europe.
Whatever course the war may take, the
children of Europe will be in a desperate
plight at the end of the hostilities. Thou-
sands of them will have lost their parents
and their homes, yet hope for humanity
lies in those children being given a heri-
tage that will enable them to grow up
in such surroundings that can justify the
war being fought at all. It will be an
urgent matter to do something, for con-
fusion during the first six months of
peace will probably be even worse than
during the last six months of war.
The British Dominions will have their
own initial problems of transferring their
man-power into peace-time pursuits, but
the arrival of large numbers of children
will not aggravate their difficulties. Even
though a child brought to a Dominion is
not able to speak English, if he is young
enough he will rapidly become assimi-
lated to the manner of life of his new
country. No one particular scheme will
be adequate or desirable. All child-immi-
gration schemes in the past have been far
more successful than those concerned
with adults.
Probably the cheapest and easiest
method of absorbing child migrants is the
new scheme of adopting parentless chil-
dren into private families. There are in
Australia probably 5000 trustworthy and
eligible people who are anxious to adopt
a child and yet are unable to obtain one
from local sources. The British Orphans
Adoption Society was formed in Sydney
at the outbreak of war. When after
some months considerable recognition
was given to its principles, the shipping
problem had become so acute as to make
transfer unlikely until the end of the war.
Meanwhile, the society emphasises the
need for immediate prior planning.
The news that the Dominion Settle-
ment Assoc, in M.L. has now put for-
ward a similar scheme is encouraging.
It is patently inadequate to rely upon
a few voices here and a few voices there.
The whole project is a matter requiring
the most careful investigation today and
the establishment of the full machinery
necessary. Then immediately an armis-
tice is signed operations can commence.
—E. D. D. (N.S.W.).
"Now for it! Parry; butt-stroke—and kill!"
Three Prices
The Prices Commissioner should pay a
visit to our little Queensland country
town and, disguised as three different
persons, pay three visits to local hotels
and try to buy wines and whiskies. He
would find that Bung has three prices—
one for civilians, one for Australian
service men and one for Allied troops.
Our Allies pay as much as £4 10s. for
a bottle of whisky. The Aussie in uni-
form pays about £2 10s. and the civilian
in most cases £3 10s. You can guess who
gets the preference when supplies are
scarce.— Bennie (Q.).
Equal Opportunity? Yes!
“Karoot” (B. 14/4/’43) notwithstand-
ing, there is equal opportunity for all in
Australia; it can be demonstrated in
countless cases.
In normal times anyone can start on a
shoestring and set himself up as a con-
tractor. Say he has £lOO. He can get a
truck and hop into gravel carting for a
road board. (I should know, because
that’s how I got my own start.) From
there on he’s got the game by the throat.
It lies with him. I have seen dozens of
men, cockies’ laborers, wharf-lumpers,
navvies and whatnot, get similar starts,
and seen some of them finish up as pros-
perous citizens with a good home and
solid standing.
It is absurd to say “where does he get
the hundred?” Any man can scrape this
up from a good clearing contract.
Politics can be tackled by anyone with
a gift of the gab and a pleasing per-
sonality, and there are no higher rewards
offered in Australia than those to be
gained in the life political. That is, of
course, on a superficial theory of the
value of life’s “rewards.” The trouble is,
few of us take the trouble to work out
proper values, and when the battle is
just about over we realise, too late, that
we could have had a much better time
on half the worry and strife.—R. H. G.
(W.A.).
Veges. by Slogan
E. Murnane, supervisor of Victorian
school gardens, said the other day
that “V for Victory and Vegetables”
was the slogan he had given school-
children for their vegetable-growing for
war funds. More than 200 schools had
applied to the Education Department for
free seed. That sounds impressive, but
I saw one of these school gardens the
other day, and the result of 18 months’
effort was a few onions and a row of
cauliflowers devoured by grubs and run
to seed.
Seemingly teachers regarded the cam-
paign as another of the department’s
stunts, like designing paper models and
similar fashions which used to come and
go when I went to school. There were
several hundreds of pupils in the school,
and they had produced less green stuff
than an average market gardener would
produce in a day.
There’s nothing wrong with the
children. Given enthusiasm on the part
of their teachers, you Jan get children
to do anything. Without it all that hap-
pens is a muddle which may put the
children off agriculture for the rest of
their lives.— Bumpkin (Vic.).
State Cattle-runs
I read that N. S. Wales Premier McKell
intends to start breeding beef on some
of his State’s prison farms and intends
to buy high-quality breeding stock.
It reminds me of the Queensland Labor
Government’s expedition into the cattle-
station industry. Large holdings were
bought on the “walk-in, walk-out” basis.
Declared objects: profits that would
bring down taxes, and cheapen meat.
Red-tape officialism doomed the pro-
ject from the start, and when the Gov-
ernment was compelled to get out of its
extra-dearly-purchased stations and cattle
hundreds of thousands of pounds had to
be written off. And meat had been
dearer than before.
If Mr. McKell is determined that his
Government enter the cattle industry it
might be better to utilise the prison farms
for producing milk and to leave beef pro-
duction to cattlemen who know their job.
—Beefo (N.S.W.).
The Farmer of the Future
One of the first things the farmer of
tradition learnt from his father was to
restore to the soil all its waste products.
In China every weed, every fallen leaf,
every bit of organic material is care-
fully collected and made into humus.
Then the soil is brought from the fields
to the farmyard, mixed with the humus
and laboriously returned. An area which
will support only 40 people in Europe
will support 200 in China. On some
of these Chinese farms the soil has re-
mained sweet after 4000 years of con-
tinuous and thorough cultivation.
Of late years both animal and artificial
manures have been so readily obtainable
that the ancient methods of conservation
have almost been forgotten. By modern
methods of cultivation and under the
tuition of Government departments pro-
ductivity is actually being lessened, or, at
any rate, more and more chemical fer-
tiliser has to be put into the soil to pro-
duce crops as large as the old-time farmer
produced without them.
Another factor in the decadence of
farming is that it is no longer a traditional
and family occupation but a means of
gaining independence quickly, so that the
farmer can retire. In a Victorian district
vegetable-growers lease an area of good
soil, and by means of excessive irrigation
and artificial fertilisation force large crops
out of the ground until the soil becomes
exhausted. Then they move elsewhere to
make more quick profits and impoverish
a bit more of the country.
These effects have come about largely
•under bureaucratic direction, and we are
to have more bureaucracy than ever. The
outlook of the bureaucrat and the farmer
will have to change if anything is to come
out of it but trouble. — Lao-dah (Vic.).
Blue Boiler Peas
Last year the Federal Supply Depart-
ment invited farmers in S.A. to grow
blue boiler peas. Seed was supplied at
15s. a bushel, freight free, and payment
was to be deducted from the returns
when the crop was delivered. Price was
to be 15s. f.o.r. or f.o.b. to the farmer
at the nearest siding or port, crops to be
under the supervision of the Agricultural
Department.
The season opened well, but just as the
peas were well podded in the early crops
came a plague of grubs. One of our
neighbors who had expected at least eight
bags to the acre —and it looked good
enough for ten—had nothing left but
stalks. One man got ten bags—not to
the acre—and the peas were pitted by
grubs. One got a return of a bag and
a half. So it was all over the State.
The Agricultural Department circular-
ised growers, urging them to have another
go, as grubs are not usually bad two
years in succession. Last year’s triers had
the first option of contracts. The Gov-
ernment announced that it would waive
the cost of the seed where the return was
less than £2 10s. per acre.
The next week a circular*was received
“regretting having to advise” that the
Field Peas Board appointed by the
Federal Government had decided that
this season the cost of seed would be
16s. 6d. per bushel, f.o.r. Woodville, and
payment must be made within 21 days
of delivery. This to men who had
wasted their time and had no tangible
return for their super, (super, can never
be said to be wasted) last year.
Since we cancelled our contracts, we
have heard nothing, but it looks as if the
soldiers will go hungry for blue peas.—
Cubberlie (S.A.).
Political New Order
As The Bulletin says, it is pleasing
to see the Senate return to its full duties
for once. Obviously some plan for
establishing the best sort of control of
purely local government is necessary
before the present State Governments are
done away with and all national matters
handed over to the Federal Government.
As that will take some time, and as
the powerful centre of Sydney would not
be neglected in the manipulated politics
of the interim, the people outside Sydney
should refuse to be governed by a Syd-
ney-Newcastle Government any longer,
and demand that supreme- electoral
power be taken away from the cities.
Then would follow development of
N.S.W.’s great natural resources, and
maybe, fewer strikes.— Australian (Vic.).
Exuberant Youth
“X.8.W.” (B. 21/4/ ’43) apparently
doesn’t understand youth when he sug-
gests clubs and rest-rooms where the young
of both sexes can meet to enjoy each
other’s company. For those desirous of
entertainment the cities are full of dance-
halls and theatres.
Youth must have its fling. For the life
of me I can’t imagine lads or girls sit-
ting in rest-rooms twiddling their fingers
discussing conventional topics. Parents
may be wrathful at the frolics of their
offspring, but they were not always dads
and mums. In their own youth they
probably cut the same capers as the
present generation is doing. As to parks,
where else can couples go to court?
When conditions return to normal, so
also will exuberant youth return to saner
conduct. But no innovations by way of
clubs or rest-rooms will prevent young
people from pairing off for the purpose
of love-making. — Jeff (Vic.).
Clinics and V.D.
The latest political fad seems to be a
campaign on the National Health Front.
Presumably the Federal Government hopes
to cash in on the public opinion created
by the V.D. scare in publicising its gran-
diose scheme for post-war public health.
But clinics without cultivation of the
clinic habit amongst the people will be
useless. You cannot expect any health
scheme which largely depends upon the
voluntary aid of sufferers in treating their
ills to be any more than a costly pallia-
tive. A sane educational policy that seeks
to instil into young minds the habit of
regular attendance at clinics is an abso-
lute essential to any health scheme. Simi-
larly, an educational policy that seeks to
give the young a sense of respect for
their bodies will solve the moral problem
concerned in the prevention of the spread
of any disease, whether it be the common
cold or syphilis.—O. B. Server (Q.).


FOR QUALITY
DOWN through the centuries the Imperial Spirit
has advanced with ever-increasing strength,
inspiring the pioneer and transforming the wilderness.
As an all-Australian link in the Imperial chain of
industrial achievement stands the wonderful success of
WILLIAM ARNOTT PTY, LIMITED. An out-
standing success, too, based on the highest standards of
integrity and efficiency ... National standards, unaltered
by time or distance.
It is therefore an inspiring thought to Australians that
the rich yield of their own fertile countryside can be
converted into a perfect product with a world-wide
demand, and that the process of manufacture is
unsurpassed in efficiency and hygiene.
■» ** •>
4
* -'<t
m
tend to defend
-J- ->®s®
SKit ’»■-£
, 4c-*i ' -•■ *7i :
fjr .
.. *T
asr.
"" -f s I **" «
4'’ ;'. , - '•»■>.* 4 ■;• ' %.. „
_ :> ' : >' v"4>., , i'!' i'!
jSfiS
$‘T. ,' -£*■' ~ " ''•'. ■ '-4 4'• ■ 444'’^’’*.«—.
feW*" -v^ap—'-fc
444 *'•*
'44
■'•»
WM
>M
-.,
ejt 4
•■•i ' l * »'
* *s. -v t;" v! - f.
'-**.• Tr>
■ 1
<U4fk
Arnofts
Facror/
111
at Homebush. Mew South Wales
AR
It is better to plan victories than have
post-mortems on defeat buy War Savings
Certificates and National Savings Bonds.
ARS BETTER THAN EVER"
