

■*'
'
mt
The Bulletin
‘The Bulletin,” Vol. 64. -No. 3318
Wednesday, September 15, 1943
Price 6d.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper,
Seppelts
FAMOUS FOR ITS “SCOTTISH GATHERINGS” IS BEAUTIFUL BRAEMAR CASTLE.
local Scots known as “Mar” Castle, Braemar
stands at the junction of the River Dee and the burn
of Cluny, on the site and from the ruins of an earlier castle
most of whose story is lost in the mists of antiquity. Here
the standard of revolt was raised by the Earl of Mar in
1715, and this, his seat then, was forfeited because the
castle was reported to have been used as a hunting lodge
by the rebel Malcolm Canmore. Farquarson of Invercauld
acquired the castle, and after the battle of Culloden gave
use of it to the Government. The royal deer forests near
by are Balmoral and Ballochbuie, Glen Ey Forest and
Invercauld.
In the village near by are held each year the “Scottish
Gatherings where national games are practised, throwing
the caber, putting the stone, as well as sword and Highland
dances. A feature of these sports is the race up the hill
of lofty Graig Chennuich.


ITtorti Writing
This Book FREE to YOU!
STOTT’S CORRESPONDENCE COLLEGE.
100 Russell Street. Melbourne.
Please send, without obligation, your New Free
Booklet, explaining how to Write for Profit, at
advertised in the Sydney “Bulletin. '
My Name
My Address
S.B. 243
AGE
The Red Page
THE GAY HORIZON.
We are initiated into the fearsome
mysteries of Leota’s beauty parlor.
“Mrs. Pike is this lady from New
Orleans,” said Leota, puffing and pressing
into Mrs. Fletcher’s scalp with strong red-
nailed fingers.... “Cute ain’t the word for
what she is.”
She dashed the comb through the air and
paused dramatically as a cloud of Mrs.
Fletcher’s hennaed hair floated out of the
lavender teeth like a small storm cloud.
“Hair failin’.”
“Aw, Leota.”
“Uh-huh, commencin’ to fall out,” said
Leota.
“Bet it was that last perm’nent you gave
me that did it,” Mrs. Fletcher said cruelly.
“Remember you cooked me 14 minutes.”
“You had 14 minutes cornin’ to you,”
said Leota with finality.
Leota, Mrs. Fletcher and the cute Mrs.
Pike are the principals of Eudora Welty’s
short story “The Petrified Man” in
Horizon Stories (Faber).
Leota has let a room to Mrs. Pike;
and Mrs. Pike, “a very decided blonde,”
who buys Leota peanuts and has an
attractive little son, Billy Boy, whom
Leota allows to play in the beauty parlor,
is everything that is wonderful. Mrs. Flet-
cher, having learned from Leota that Mrs.
Pike is spreading intimate gossip about
her, is not so sure that she is wonderful.
Leisurely, through a series of conver-
sations in the beauty parlor, the full
iniquity of Mrs. Pike is revealed. Mrs.
Pike and Leota visit a travelling freak
show, and greatly admire the Petrified
Man, a poor fellow capable only of mov-
ing his head a quarter of an inch to one
side or the other. Then, in Leota’s
apartment, Mrs. Pike picks up a copy of
the “Startling G-Man” magazine, and
sees an offer of five hundred dollars re-
ward for identifying a gentleman from
California who has assaulted four women
during the month of August.
The criminal, Leota perceives from his
photograph, is none other than the Petri-
fied Man.
Whereupon she informs on him, col-
lects the five hundred dollars and causes
Leota the most outrageous agony of
mind. For, after all, Mrs. Pike was living
in Leota’s room, and she saw the photo-
graph in Leota’s magazine, and if any-
body in honor and justice was entitled
to the five hundred dollars for inform-
ing on the Petrified Man that person was
Leota. “And my magazine, right next
to my beauty parlor. I cried all night.”
The hapless Billy, Mrs. Pike’s attrac-
tive little boy, is still playing in the
beauty parlor when Leota narrates these
heartbreaking events to Mrs. Fletcher.
In the artless innocence of childhood
Billy Boy has pried into Leota’s handbag
and is eating the precious stale peanuts
which represent about the only profit
Leota has made out of his mother.
“You come here to me!” screamed Leota,
recklessly flinging down the comb, which
scattered a whole ashtray full of bobby-
pins and knocked down a row of Coca-
Cola bottles. “This is the last straw!”
“1 caught him! I caught him!” giggled
Mrs. Fletcher. “I’ll hold him on my lap.
You bad, bad boy, you! I guess I better
learn how to spank little bad ole boys,”
she said.
Leota’s eleven o’clock customer pushed
open the swing door upon Leota paddling
him heartily with the brush, while he gave
angry but belittling screams which pene-
trated beyond the booth and filled the whole
curious beauty parlor. From everywhere
the ladies began to gather round to watch
the paddling. Billy Boy kicked both Leota
and Mrs. Fletcher as hard as he could.
Mrs. Fletcher with her new fixed smile.
“There, my little man!” gasped Leota.
“You won’t be able to set down for a
week if I knew what I was doin’.”
Billy Boy stumped through the group of
wild-haired ladies and went out the door,
but flung back the words “If you’re so
smart, why ain’t you rich?”
In the present commentator’s opinion
“The Petrified Man” is the outstanding
story of the “Horizon” collection ; and
also the ideal type of short story for The
Bulletin, for Coast to Coast and for
Australian writing generally.
That opinion is based not only on
what is in the story but on what isn’t in it.
For instance, it is certainly not a story
about the woes of a sensitive, suffering
child. Everybody—even the victim —
enjoys the spanking of Billy Boy.
There are, no doubt, sensitive children
who suffer. And therefore every short-
story writer is entitled to do one portrait
—' br even two d| three —of suffering, sen
mive onildren J But Australian waiting
Ajrecelit yearn Jias teemejl witl#(little
Aga|ri Vnd ljas|been
asked to feel harrowed when some" Aus-
tralian Billy Boy is literally or meta-
phorically spanked; and one has been
asked to assume that the’ spankers are
sadistic monsters.
It is probable that Katherine Mansfield
originated the tradition. In her casp, and
in many others, it produced some nice
writing. But the best of the stories,
Katherine Mansfield’s included, have been
sentimental, arising from self-pity—“ How
I suffered when I was a little child!”
most of them say, in effect- —and it would
probably be a good idea if Australian
writers swore off this easy pathos for life.
Billy Boy, it’s worth noticing, makes
only the briefest of appearances in
Eudora Welty’s story, momentarily at the
opening and momentarily at the end.
Mrs. Pike, Mrs. Fletcher and Leota are
Eudora Welty’s principals—the world of
adult women. And that world, of adult
women or adult men, is a far better theme
than childhood for adult writers appeal-
ing to an adult audience.
Chekhov did the art of the story no
good service when he wrote about the
boy journeying across the steppes, and
H. E. Bates likewise helped to lead
writers astray when, following Chekhov,
he wrote about the boy Alexander journey-
ing across England. De Maupassant and
D. H. Lawrence don’t write about children.
One could not reasonably establish it
as a principle of criticism that all short
stories about childhood are bad art. All
life, ultimately, is the theme of the short-
story writer as it is of the novelist or
dramatist. The writer aiming at the
completeness of De Maupassant would
fail if he ignored childhood altogether;
but how much more has he failed if he
evades the great world of adult life!
Childhood stories, like animal stories, have
their place: but only a small place. They
take too large a place in contemporary
writing in Australia and New Zealand.
“The Petrified Man” is a story about
adults for adults. Moreover, it is a comedy,
Australian short-story writers, for-
tunately, seem to be turning towards
comedy these days. The great gloom
which fell upon English short-story writ-
ing with the rise of Leftism, and which
perhaps reached its nadir in H. E. Bates’s
last collection, The Beauty of the Dead —
a wail of misery from cover to cover —
cast its shadow over Australian and New
Zealand writing in recent years. The
message “How miserable the world is
this morning!” almost came to be re-
garded as a profound discovery in poli-
tics and psychology, and as the only pos-
sible theme for a vital short story. And
in quite recent months, as New Zealand
New Writing showed, William Saroyan’s
sensitive, suffering young man (an even
more abject object than the sensitive,
suffering child) has made his bow.
Both the Leftists and the Saroyanists
have been encouraged in sorrow, of
course, by the tearful ghost of Little
Arvie. Sentimental gloom is no new
thing in the short story. Comedy is not
new either—the spirit of “Madame
Tellier’s Establishment” is eternal. But
the reappearance of comedy on a stage
darkened by a tradition of misery is
sufficiently striking to give that illusion
of novelty which pleases and heartens the
writer as well as the reader.
If it is not really “new,” comedy has
at any rate become news. After too much
of the later Bates, Eudora Welty appears
as a phenomenon and a prophet.
And those Australians who are writing
comedy—since July 14 The Bulletin
has published “Charlie’s Bad Luck,” by
Myra Morris, “Boots and Saddle,” by E.
O. Schlunke, “Jacob’s Escape” and “The
Scandal of Cookabundy Bridge,” by Brian
James, and “The Last of Our Horses,” by
James Hackston: every one a comedy—
are forerunners in what is clearly going
to be a world-wide reassertion of laughter.
Cyril Connolly, who has selected the
stories from “Horizon,” is refreshingly
frank abouthis magazine’s need for humor :
More often than not the main articles
we publish are heavy, and so predispose the
selector of the story towards light relief.
Australian and American journals
have not quite so pressing a need for
“light relief.” In this irreverent country
The Bulletin can risk a laugh in a
leader or Red Page article that in an
English magazine would be as incongru-
ous as a goat in church. Nevertheless,
the need for comedy remains.
The Bulletin could not make its
story page a wail of misery week after
week ; nor could the publishers of Coast
to Coast reasonably ask the public to
welcome either an annual infliction of
gloom or an annual volume of Leftist
sermons. No writer who hopes to have
a book published and read dare offer
merely an image of his own depression ;
nor can any genuine artist, out to make
a complete statement on life, ignore the
element of laughter. If it weren’t for
Eudora Welty and Mr. Connolly’s other
comedy-writers, Fred Urquhart, John
Bryan, J. Maelaren-Ross and Diana Gard-
r?en, .ity would not be possible to recom-
mend Horizon glories as enjoyable read-
ing: and there's no point in reading any
book if you don’t enjoy it.
Horizon Stories, as its editor perceives,
marks the beginning of a great change
in the short story, both in outlook and
in technique. “The Petrified Man” is a
long story, elaborately constructed.
There is little place now either for the
impressionistic, pointless story of the
’thirties, or for the undigested reporting
which passes for fiction.
As the Red Page said some months ago,
reviewing Saroyan’s “surrealist” plays, the
arts have said good-bye to the wreckers.
Good bye to the sensitive, suffering child.
Good-bye, and a glad good-bye, to
Saroyan’s sensitive, suffering young men.
Good-bye to the miseries of the Left.
Good-bye to reportage.
Good-bye to “tough guy” prose.
Good-bye to the sketch.
Comedy has come back, and the full,
rich, constructed story. De Maupassant
has displaced Chekhov.
“Horizon” has not yet stabilised its
values —if such a feat is ever possible or
desirable. Rollo Woolley’s “The Pupil” is
suspiciously like Saroyan’s sensitive
sufferers. Arturo Barea’s “The Scissors”
—though redeemed by humor apd avoid-
ing actual horrors —is in the tradition of
the sadistic sketch. Alfred Perles’s “I
Live on My Wits” (of which Connolly
approves as a “picaresque”) is one of
those first-person stories about a scoun-
drel which never quite make it clear
whether or not the author is delighted or
disgusted with his subject matter, and
which in any case have been overworked
in recent writing. There are several
pallid stories about pallid people—re-
sembling Stephen Spender’s vague, sur-
realist, ultra-sensitive offerings—and these,
even Kafka’s, seem a type that is doomed:
weak and hollow beside the directness and
Vigor of “The Petrified Man.”
Thus, as a whole, Horizon Stories
represents a state of transition rather
than an accomplishment. . There is a
movement towards vigor, comedy, rich-
ness of characterisation and solidity of
construction, but the movement is as yet
only beginning. It is significant—and a
good omen for Australian writing—that
Eudora Welty and John Bryan, the best
of the comedy writers, are Americans.
Diana Gardner, if not an American, is cer-
tainly influenced by the American gusto.
Generally speaking, the “Horizon” con-
tributors are in advance of Australian
writers in sophistication of approach and
technique. They are more polished en-
tertainers.
It might occur to an Australian writer
to make a comedy about a beauty par-
lor ; but only an American would think
of bringing a Petrified Man into it.
Nevertheless, there is no great differ-
ence between the best of these stories and
the best Australian ; and the tradition of
naturalness which prevents Australians
from bringing Petrified Men into beauty
parlors has its advantages as well as its
disadvantages: it keeps their feet on the
earth, stops them from straying too far
into fantasy. There was no need for a
Petrified Man to enliven Brian James’s
“The Scandal of Cookabundy Bridge”
(B. 18/8/’43): a realistic comedy of the
Australian earth and people will do very
well for the present.
A. Long’s “Her with the Light in Her
Hair” in this present issue of The Bulle-
tin —a story that will bear comparison
with any of the “Horizon” selections —is
probably the type of story towards which
Australian and New Zealand writers are
moving, realism illumined by imagination.
If they have not already learned the
lesson of those two excellent comedies of
the Maori, Roderick Finlayson’s “The
Totara Tree” in the last Coast to Coast
and A. P. Gaskell’s “The Picture in the
Paper” in N.Z. New Writing, Australian
writers could learn from Rhys Davies’s
contribution to Horizon Stories how to
enliven by fantasy and humor the por-
trayal of the abo. But Davies’s story in
itself is an illustration of the danger of
a cult of fantasy. It is indistinguishable
from Caradoc Evans’s oddities. And it
is rapidly becoming more and more diffi-
cult to believe that Wales is populated
exclusively by wicked fairies. Welsh
literature has jumped up into the clouds
and can’t get down again. Everybody is a
Petrified Man and nobody is a Mrs. Pike.
Given just a trifle more imagination
Australian short-story writers are on the
right track. Those who have been writ-
ing comedy for The Bulletin and Coast
to Coast share with Eudora Welty a
warm love of humanity, in its errors as
well as in its virtues ; a detached, gently
ironical outlook ; a keen appreciation of
those oddities and quirks of character
which bring color and diversity to the
human scene ; and a strong sense for
local color bom of the knowledge, con-
scious or unconscious, that a genuine love
for humanity is shown not in vague ideal-
ism about China or Peru but in affection
for the places and people one knows.
The key-word “gay” which Connolly
applies to his collection as a whole—
who’d have dreamed of a “gay” book of
short stories any time over the last ten
years! —is exactly the word for the work
Brian James, Hackston, Myra Morris and
the others have been doing in Australia.
If it really is the key-word for the decade
to come—as seems to be the case —readers
have something to look forward to.
SUNDRY SHOWS.
The Yanks do like to pile stuff on to
the stage. In “The Man Who Came to
Dinner” every improbability from a cage
of cockroaches to an octopus in the bath-
room made its appearance; and either
on stage or just off it in “George Wash-
ington Slept Here” (Sydney Minerva’s
new play by the same authors, Moss Hart
and George Kaufmann) there’s a plough,
a cow, a horse, two years’ supply of
gravel and two years’ supply of manure,
gigantic piles of luggage, a wheelbarrow
—everything that could possibly be
brought on when city people take an old
house in the country. Weather effects
include a cloudburst and a hurricane. All
this bric-a-brac might be funnier in theory
than in practice, for, on the whole, it is
static and silent. Even a cow has a com-
paratively limited vocabulary. But with
Edwin Styles whirling in the middle of
it and the authors’ polished wit flashing
in the air, it’s all delightfully lively and
delightfully funny. As Styles said at the
end, the play has no Message. It’s a
lightweight. But the audience liked it;
and so, judging by the good performances
all round, did the cast. Nobody could
help liking such a good-humored bit of
nonsense.
New ground was broken at a Sydney
symphony concert conducted by Dr.
Bainton under A.B.C. auspices by a
couple of two-pianoforte concertos, one
by Lindley Evans, the other by Frank
Hutchens. The duettists in each case
were Lindley Evans and Frank Hutchens.
Mr. Evans’s adventure in music, called
“Idyll,” flowed smoothly and pleasantly
along familiar idiomatic channels. Mr.
Hutchens (whose light pianoforte music
has found favor in many lands) essays in
“Phantasy” a nightmarish experience
that develops into a long pursuit —there
is a galloping reiteration that goes on
and on without the variation of a hoof-
beat until it becomes nearly unbearable.
However, the piano entrances and re-
entrances are always effectively conceived,
and the treatment of the ideas expressed
is piquant and arresting.
Adelaide Society of Arts has held a
steady succession of shows since its own
autumn exhibition. Gwen Barringer, who
is due to show in Melbourne shortly, had
really remarkable sales ; then came Travis
Webber and the Heritage and Gerry
ladies. The most recent exhibition is
photographic. Painters Heysen and
Goodchild assisted in judging.
There are various ways in which an
artist can see Australia. He can see it
in terms of the traditional school of
Streeton and his confreres, he can see
it in terms of European cults or he can
see it with a genuinely fresh vision.
Frank Carter, whose show is at the Myer
Mural Hall in Melbourne, sees it in
terms of the Nottingham Art School, and
the results are curiously like those of the
early English painters who somehow or
other could not help making a euca-
lypt look an oak - tree and Sydney
Harbor like Liverpool. Amongst the
portraits there is a good souvenir of
the late “Little Doctor” Maloney, which
Canberra has purchased.
“F.S.”: There is something insidious
about a fashion. It starts, nobody knows
where or how, there is a period of perse-
cution, then it is taken up by the
younger generation, and finally even
the most venerable and respected
adults, including bishops, are talk-
ing Freud and Marx or smoking
cigarettes and wielding their lipsticks
in public. A few short years ago Madge
Freeman, Grace Gardiner, Norman Mac-
George, Dora Serle, Margaret Pestell,
Dora Wilson and other members of the
Independent Group showing at Mel-
bourne Athenaeum would probably have
viewed with horror the pictures they are
now painting. Up to date Miss Wilson s
latest manner has crept only into her
landscapes, but if she keeps on as she
is going it won’t be long before her city-
scapes begin to look as if an earthquake
has hit them.


"TRUTH IN ADVERTISING”
120th Year of Service
"THE SENIOR STORE'
r
i.
gm
PI
m
I
Q
ir
m
m
*
%
«K
v&A
%
js
ox
'o'L«*
«&>s>
**♦>
>*♦
*m
>.’V»o*
»
✓ V’
'Wx* 0 V
/./A 7
a* X *v> * rfdmmm
XV-**
. ‘•- . iii ! i«H
A
03
N
«•
mm
m
4|
W,4>
W.Q
fkf
y 1
ov
X j
s'
J- -*
J*' .
* * S
* **
X
‘ x **.
sy
' jp’ » yX-" - .*■’■ ■*' n 3
/♦ /
/ '>'-
Ik xVx . v
////
■//■
c:
p©|
s*
ns#**
1^
*3
£9
osm
£**
S*
Sra
»K*«S
For Household Use
FORNAX. The best first aid
dressing. It is antiseptic and
can be used with perfect
confidence on scalds,
sprains, sunburn, sores,
insect stings, etc. It is non-
poisonous. Price, bottle, 4/6
SPRAYZOL. Sprayzol is an
extra strong liquid insecti-
cide for bug destruction and
for the control of fleas, star-
ling lice and other pests.
Price, bottle 2/6
CLEONOL The perfect cleanser.
For all household purposes
such as washing and cleaning
all kinds of clothing and fabrics
and.sponging suits. Bottle, 1/3
OMEGA OZONATOR. Place in
boxes, linen cupboards, wardrobes,
drains and toilets. An insurance
against moths, silverfish, and other
insect pests. Kills all larvae, all fer-
tilizers, eggs. Deodorizes and ab-
sorbs odours in toilets. Each, 2A
MORT-ANT. For the effective exter-
mination of White Ants, Borers and
Black Ants. Leaves no stain and is
non-injurious to painted wood. In
two sizes. -2-lb. tin makes 1 gallon.
1-lb. tin makes 2 gallons. 2/6, 4/9
AUSOLINE. The cockroach de-
stroyer. Cats and dogs will not
touch it. Place in small lumps in
places frequented by vermin and
they will be controlled and soon
exterminated. Price, tin ...... 2/-
• Chemistry Dept.—Ground Floor *
Pitt Street.
ANTHONY HORDERNS'
FAMOUS LOW PRICES
PHONE; M 2401 (DAY AND NIGHT) BOX 2712 C. G.P.0., SYDNEY


“Her With Hie light in Her Hair”
By A. LONG.
SHE was the most plainly dressed
woman in the hall —just a blouse
and skirt trimly worn over a fine
figure. She danced with a quiet
emotion, little enough movement, but
a kind of suppressed vitality. In fact,
vitality and suppression were the key-
notes of her personality, pervading
everything she did.
Obviously, she was very popular. The
men competed hotly for each dance, and
the minute the music stopped the women
surrounded her; everyone, it seemed,
with something special to say to her.
Except for hair that shone and ran into
little curls, she was not beautiful. Her
sun-tanned skin seemed to be free from
even a dusting of powder, but she was
very attractive to look at, so that I and
a good many others were busy watching
her most of the time. The lugubrious
little man who was sitting out the dances
beside me —he had been introduced to me
as Porp Cobber ; “amusing if I brought
him out” —kept his eyes on her too.
“Married?” I asked him, making con-
versation.
“Yes. That’s her. I’m waitin’ on her.”
“What? The fair one with”
“Yes, the one dancin’ with the soldier.
Her with the light sparklin’-like in her
hair.”
“You must be a proud man.”
“Yes,” he answered in a tone that
meant “no” ; but his eyes never ceased to
follow her, and I could see the pride in
them mixed with some other feeling not
so obvious,
I began to take an added interest in
him. He was something of an oddity, but
on closer inspection I recognised in him
great vital force and much strength of
both mind and body—strong jaw, clear,
deep-set eyes with discernment and yet a
twinkle in them. I could readily imagine
him as the village humorist, if his mood
were not so deadly gloomy. Probably he
had done a man’s work since he was
twelve years old, and always looked out
on a hard world with cynical humor.
He had a bandaged hand, so we fra-
ternised on the subject of our injuries.
Mine was a war knee; his being recent
he described it vividly. He had been
“logging up” his paddocks, had a roaring
fire going and was pushing a large log
into place when his foot slipped and his
hand went into the glowing coals.
“But it’s nothin’,” he claimed. “Fort-
night in hospital and about cured. Hand’ll
be as useful as ever when the nails grow.
But it’s the shock —shock to the nerves
like. Always the same after a burn, so
the quacks say.”
His voice tailed off, but his face told
the story. It was haunted.
HE didn’t blurt out the confidence
here related. I angled for it. I
could see that the trouble, whatever it
was, had become an obsession and must
come out. It was one o’clock before it
came.
“She were an Auckland girl—people
was poor, but very respectable. Just the
right sort for a workin’ cocky to pick
up. Two sisters goes out to work, she
stoppin’ home to help the mother.
Didn’t know the country, but she liked
the notion of farm life, and was keen to
learn.
“Can’t say I knowed her very well be-
fore we hitched up, on account of me not
spendin’ many days in Auckland at a
time. Farms is awkward things to leave
to theirselves. Her ma said she were a
great cook and strong and all, and certain
she were prutty—as I seen her anyway.
“You can see, sir, for yourself. Her
figure’s maybe a bit fuller but not so’s
you’d notice it.
• “No, I can’t say as I knowed her right
well. Once at her ma’s in Auckland I
did get a hint like, but it seemed to pass
out of my mind. One of her sisters come
flingin’ outa the kitchen, where the three
of them had been havin’ words, sayin’
‘Selfish beast!’ The ma checks her
sharp. She mustn’t dare talk so of Bessie.
The sister in a tantrum says ‘Didn’t you
say worse yourself—that there was no
bearin’ her, and no man could put up
with her ways, and she needn’t come
back home when her man kicked her
out!’ The mother hushes her up, and I
thinks shame on the sister.
“Well, we was married, and I brought
her home, and mighty pleased she seemed
with everythin’. She learnt to milk in
no time, and took interest and give a
hand where she could in all the work.
“Showin’ her everythin’ made the old
farm spring into new life; work a
pleasure and everythin’ a bit of all right.
That two months when we was first
married was the best bit of livin’ I’d
knowed since I were born.
“Nothin’ that good could last.
“One day I chanced to say I hadn’t
no taste for a pink dressin’-gown she
owned and seemed proud of. It were the
sort of clout, I reckoned, that would be-
long to the kind of woman I didn’t look
to have for a wife.
“You wouldn’t believe how she flared
up, callin’ me names, and wouldn’t be
soothed down by me sayin’ I didn’t mean
nothin’, and I reckoned it was just old-
fashionedness on my part.
“She stayed wild all evenin’ and next
day.
“After that she began growlin’ at the
whole show. She hated farms; animals
was useless, filthy, stinkin’ things; mud
—she was bogged in it; the house weren’t
fitten for pigs,
“Then, when she’d fair got my goat,
she’d switch on to me. A lousy, monkey-
faced crawler and such names, not proper
for a man to listen to from his wife.
“She were cleverer than me, and every
argument she’d turn it to put me wrong
and find herself the injured party. She
stopped goin’ out to the cowyard and
feedin’ the beasts, and in the house she
would fling spoons and forks and things
around same as if she had a grudge
against them.
“I ast her if she was ill, and that
seemed a grievance—‘Couldn’t I see for
meself that her nerves was all out of
order?’ She wouldn’t hear about a holi-
day to Auckland —nothin’ she’d hate
more.
“I took her to the township. She liked
that fine and wanted to go every day,
and called me names when I wouldn’t be
always on the road. I took her to the
doctor —her protestin’—and he said there
was nothin’ at all the matter —not even
what I suspected. She said the quack was
a fool or he’d ’a’ seen she’d got nerves.
IT all came to a head on a Sunday. I
* was settin’ out to work. Days of rest
don’t come too frequent to farms, and,
besides, work took my mind a bit off
the way she’d turned on me. It was dis-
gustin’, she reckoned, me workin’ Sun-
day, and she’d see me in hell before she’d
get up on a Sunday mornin’.
“About one o’clock I came home
thinkin’ to take her out, to make up
like. But she weren’t dressed —lyin’ on
the couch in the pink dressin’-gown
readin’ a book.
“I says ‘Come, Bess, what’s for lunch?’
“She says ‘Nothin’ for you. Think
I’m goin’ to wait on a dirty squib that
acts as you do?’
“I started to ask what the new trouble
was, but pulled in. It wasn’t any good.
It always ended in her callin’ me names.
She had dropped to it that them names
hurt. They did, too.
“So I got my own lunch, somethin’
boilin’ hot inside me. She layin’ on the
couch readin’.
“Then I went out into the bush and
cut meself a nice supplejack—thin and
strong and switchy—and came in and
said ‘Bess, are you goin’ to get dressed
today and behave like a wife ought?’
“Not lookin’ up she answers ‘Shut up,
you dirty little tick.’
“Then I quick twists a tea-towel round
her two wrists, pulls her over the table
and lays on with that supplejack.
“No, mister, no! Truly I weren’t
really brutal. I did give her a proper
hidin’, but it was the kind that, though it
stings the flesh up good and plenty, stings
the spirit and the pride much more.
Nothin’ savage—the marks’d be gone in
a week, and they weren’t where she’d
wish to exhibit ’em.
“At first she struggled, but I’m strong
and practised in the right way to use
muscle, and a man as can throw and
brand a steer without a race can hold
most things still. Then suddenly she
seemed quiet. Good God, I thought,
she’s fainted! But she hadn’t.
“I switched off the tea-towel, and
slowly she straightened herself up, picked
up the pink dressin’-gown that had fell
on the floor, and walks without a sob or
a tear to the bedroom door.
“I heard her turn the key,
“And me —I felt glad and full of
rightness, all lifted up. I didn’t care a
dump. She could go home, she could
take me to court, she could do what
she damn’ well liked. I had acted like I
was sure a man ought.
“I slept on the kitchen couch. But next
mornin’ I didn’t feel so brash about it
all. It seemed to look different. I made
a cup o’ tea and took it to her door
sayin’, very pleadin’, ‘Bess, here’s a cup
o’ tea. Let’s talk and forgive and for-
get.’
“No answer,
“I went more than once, sayin’ the
same. Still not a sound.
“Then I went to work, cuttin’ meself
a bit o’ lunch. 1 worked late. The house
was in darkness when I came in, and no
sign of her—the bedroom door still
locked. I took the lantern to milk, and
did the other jobs, came in, lit the lire
and boiled meself somethin’. No sound
from the room. After 1 was in bed, but
not sleepin’, I heard the sound of a match
strikin’, so I knew she was there and not
run away nor anythin’.
“It went on like that till the Wednes-
day.
“I was just the most miserable man
alive and every day gettih’ miserabler —
beside meself, as the sayin’ is. I’d ’a’
done anythin’ to get her out and talkin’;
and as for calling me names —why, they’d
be music. I wished I knowed more about
women and what a man should do to
coax them. I worked ever so late because
I couldn’t force meself to go home.
i (AN the Wednesday night I was about
desperate and thinkin’ of things be-
yond reasonableness. I see a light in the
house and, gettin’ near, I see the door
open and tea all glitterin’ on the table
and Bessie there looking her old best
self with her hair all prutty and a trim
white apron on.
“Before I rightly got inside she says,
smilin’, ‘l’ve milked and everythin’s fed.
Get washed. Tea’s ready.’
“ ‘Oh, Bess,’ I says, ‘are you goin’ to
forgive?’
“But before I could get it out she Cuts
across me, ‘l’ve made a beefsteak pud-
din’, and it’s near boiled dry. Hurry
up.’
“I tried again and still again, but every
time I tried to talk and get a straight
start she breaks in with ‘The yellow pig’s
that greedy I had to ’ or ‘The black
Orpington’s laid her first egg—tried to
steal her nest she did.... ’ I knew she
were cleverer than me, and that if she
wanted it that way she’d have it, so I
gave up and she chattered as if nothin’
had ever been between us,
“It seemed, as the days went on, that
that was how we was to live.
“She was all energy and bustle. She
would hop up early—seemed as if she
were keen on racin’ me to the milkin’
shed. She made herself helpful outside
and then made breakfast —everythin’
nice and she smilin’ and chatty—never
tired, never put out, nothin’ a trouble.
Only, if I tried to talk, she put me off.
“I weren’t happy, suspectin’ she were
play-actin’.
“Then one day Bill Musgrove, a
neighbor, dropped in and we three was
havin’ a cup o’ tea all pleasant. He
happens to bring up something about
nerves. Bess up and said ‘Porp here
knows a splendid cure for nerves. Don’t
you, Porp? One dose certain to cure
the longest standin’ case.’
“Bill says ‘l’d like to hear of it, Mrs.
Cobber. What is it?’
“Bess, pointin’ to me, says ‘Oh, he’ll
explain. It’s not very nice to take, but
it’s guaranteed.’
“Me! I felt that uncomfortable, like
as if I’d swallered a lump of lead and it
were churnin’ around in my stomach.
Praise be, Bill didn’t follow it up, else I
don’t know what sort of ass I’d ’a’
seemed.
“After that, she came out with that
kind of talk more than once in company,
and, though it gruelled me, I began to
wonder whether there weren’t somethin’
in it true and if I hadn’t done the right
thing after all. I was glad I hadn’t ate
no humble pie, though it wasn’t my fault
I hadn’t. I’d tried hard enough.
“Every day things seemed to get better.
It was a marvel what she did. She sowed
the spring seeds and made herself a bit
of a flower garden, makin’ friends with
the neighbors and they takin’ to her no
end. They would come around and
praise and admire and the men would
compliment me on the ‘little bit of all
right’ I’d picked up in town. I was
bucked up and thankful and tried to show
it in deeds, for she was dead set against
me ever sayin’ it in words. She was
that obligin’—almost obedient like! It
was ‘Yes, Porp!’ and ‘Certainly, Porp!’
as if I were a god and she less nor
nothin’.
< 1 OW, mister, it ain’t good for a
1 man to be boosted up like that.
It’s unnatural and brings the worst out
of him. He gets full of himself like.
“I got to trying how far I could go.
“Thinks I, ‘l’ll go on provokin’ her till
she flies out. Then we’ll have a row and
make up and forgive and forget and be
man and wife again as we ought.’
“I took a pleasure in askin’ her to do
things that were unreasonable. ‘Bess, get
a couple more lumps of wood for the
fire’—knowing well a decent man don’t
let his wife get wood at night. She
would make a quick little swaller, shut
her lips tight and go off for the wood ;
cornin’ back all smiles and talk about the
frost cracklin’ in the yard. Always that
swallerin’ first, though so small you’d
hardly notice it. Yet it riled me; I won-
dered if I couldn’t break her of it.
“I soon found she liked to go to the
township. She was that amazin’ popular
among the women. You can see, mister,
how it is here tonight.
“I used to take her good and often,
mostly makin’ out that I needed to go
myself, for I wasn’t lettin’ her know I
was bein’ good to her same as I was at
first. She had boosted me up so high
and mighty I had begun to think 1
belonged up there.
“I said ‘Like to come to town, Bess?’
‘Thank you, Porp,’ and she goes to dress.
“After she was ready I says ‘l’ve
changed me mind. I’m not goin’.’
“She gives that little gasp, shuts her
lips and takes off her things.
“But I felt mean —too mean. I just
couldn’t do it. I took the old Ford away
and brung it back again and says T find
I have to go, after all. Put on your hat,
Bess.’
“She looked me right in the eye, the
first time she had since that Sunday, and
says very quiet and low ‘Go by yourself,
Porp.’
“I had gone too far and provoked her
to words and then somehow I daren’t
answer back.
“I drove off alone, feelin’ bad —real
bad. I had a few drinks. I needed them.
I got capsized and I talked, God help
me! It weren’t long after that that I
had the accident.
“Yes, I talked! I said things I never
ought to ’a’ said about cures for nerves,
and how to manage women and such.
God forgive me! ”
His voice raised against the music had
become a wail. His face was tragic. I
said:
“Well, after all, no one holds what the
drink says against a man and —judging
by results and what you’ve told me —
you needn’t regret too much anything
you have done.”
“But, mister”—he hesitated and started
again. “But, mister, you haven’t got the
hang. Don’t you see it’sI—it’s 1 —it’s me that’s
got nerves now?”
Three Years After.
I shall remember this warm day —
Its overtones of present joy
Merged with the sound of pain behind—
If nothing else lives in my mind.
Because there is no perfect thing,
No thing all joy, all pain, all fear,
I clutch these happy hours to me.
The true content they brought so near.
Safe in our individual world
Of tents, and clothes hung out to dry;
Of lazing in the winter sun
And seeing cloud dreams in the sky,
We talked together of the past —
The clay unshaped, the song unsung,
The dream now vanished.
Everyone,
We said, had nothing but regret
To show for three years’ effort —
Then we laughed. We’ll not forget.
Regrets, perhaps, but also steps
Towards an ever-changing goal.
Leave us this brain, these hands, these eyes,
The strength to vanquish compromise—
Give us the dreams, dear God, and we
Will see them realised in whole.
Poised for a moment on my hand
The day’s delights companion me;
Phraging the heart’s dim ecstasy,
The hidden speech none understand.
Must it wing through space and time
Until it reach the dangered clime
Of man’s forgetfulness?
That mime
Of happiness, old memory,
Bows and scrapes his travesty
And these tired hands applaud once more,
These frozen lips whisper “Encore”
Towards a shadow’s shadow.
A.I.F.
ERIC IRVIN.


The Bulletin
Vol. 64. No. 3318.
Wednesday, September 15, 1943.
NEO-ROMAN SCENE.


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper
“Australia for the White Man"
Directors:
H. K. Prior J. E. Webb
P. H. Prior David Adams
HEAD OFFICE: 252 George Street. Sydney:
Box 252IBB; ’Phone 87971
Victoria: Newspaper House, 247-249 Collins
Street, Melbourne.
Queensland: 239 Adelaide Street. Brisbane.
Westralia: 33 Barrack Street. Perth.
New Zealand: Nathan’s Buildings iopp
G.P.0.), Wellington.
London: 1 Hare Place, 47 Fleet Street,
London, E.C.4.
"IT'S GOOD TO BE BRITISH."
The defeat of Italy was in the main a
British achievement. Let this be acknow-
ledged in justice to a nation which has
harmed itself in political circles abroad
by its traditional reluctance to advertise.
Everything depended on sea-power,
and until the U.S.A. joined in impres-
sively ten months ago the ships were
nearly all built in Britain. British also
were nearly all the officers and men who
manned them, from the high admiral to
the lowliest ship’s boy—those heroic
souls who in desperate days took the
materials for an immortal resistance
through the hell of Bomb Alley to Malta ;
who, scourged by Gdring’s aircraft and
Doenilz’s U-boats, carried nearly every-
thing required by the armies and air
forces round Africa; who, inferior on
paper to the Italian Navy, and with a
French squadron in Alexandria harbor
to look after —and once the British and
French warships there cleared for action
—drove it to the shelter of its ports and
kept it there.
What a day it was for the Maltese and
their protectors when the Italian fleet,
preceded by Warspite and Valiant,
“anchored under the guns of Malta”!
Eternal honor to these mariners of Eng-
land! Cunningham and his ships and
men take their place in history with
Nelson and his ships and men.
British also in the main was the equip-
ment used so effectively by the ground
and air forces. Provided in the first place
when Britain itself was short and it
seemed that invasion might follow the
havoc wrought by the Luftwaffe, it
proved sufficient for the tasks assigned
to the ground and air forces in the first
year ; and in that first year they drove
the Italians out of Egypt and far into
Libya and rounded them up in Eritrea,
Abyssinia and Italian Somaliland. But
not until the end of 1942 was it ever
decisively superior, and Wavell had so
little and his army was so small that an
elaborate system of feinting had to be
resorted to —this was also the case in
Abyssinia.
When part of the Seventh British
Armored Division and our Sixth Divi-
sion were sent to Greece the advantage
in everything but fighting quality passed
to the Axis, which had sent one of the
best German generals and the Afrika-
korps, with nearly 500 tanks, across the
Mediterranean. Fighting quality stopped
Rommel at Tobruk, when in the con-
sidered judgment of men with special
knowledge he had tanks enough to do
what he was to do there in June, 1942,
and fighting quality stopped him again
when the Axis was so certain that Alex-
andria was at its mercy that Mussolini
hurried across to make a triumphal entry.
Then came Alexander and Montgomery;
Tedder, Coningham and Cunningham (in
the supporting role in which the Royal
Navy has always delighted); the stun-
ning blows delivered by the bombers and
the great victory of El Alamein. The
enemy reeled back, pursued and har-
ried for 1200 miles by the cavalry
of the skies and the Eighth Army, until
nothing remained of the Axis in North
Africa but abandoned equipment and
dumps and a huge haiil of beaten men
in Anglo-American prison camps. And
so to Sicily and the collapse of the Fascist
regime ; so to Italy and “unconditional
surrender.” .
In the most trying stages of his fight
against odds, Cunningham had help from
the R.A.N. which has been generously
acknowledged. It was perhaps the sink-
ing of the Bartolomeo Colleoni by
H.M.A.S. Sydney which convinced the
Italians that they could not stand up
against ships of the Royal Navy in fair
combat. In the Eighth Army there have
been divisions of Australians, New Zea-
landers, South Africans, Indians and
(since Tunisia) Canadians, together with
contingents of Poles, Greeks and French,
and from the declaration of war to the
capitulation a large proportion of the
fighter and bomber crews and ground
staffs were men from the Dominions
For the A.1.F., Bardia, Tobruk and El
Alamein were marked by skilful disposi-
tions as well as fighting quality, and it
was the same with the engagements in
which the N.Z.E.F., under Freyberg’s
command, covered itself with glory, from
the El Agheila gap to the Mareth Line.
But in the waging as well as the •plan-
ning of the war against the Italians—
and be it remembered that the population
of Italy is equal to that of die United
Kingdom—the lion’s share was borne by
the British.
The men who bridged the desert and kept
supplies up to the troops are Britons.
The man who thought out all the moves
of the game that began on November 5,
1942, and his dour lieutenant, the best
fighting commander in the field, are
Britons. And there is not a Digger who
saw the Seventh Armored Division in
action who did not become its lifelong
admirer, nor a Digger who would not
consider it a high compliment if told
that his division was as good as the 50th
(Northumbrian) or the 51st (Highland).
Next to the opportunity, which has been
denied them, of welcoming two thousand
of their old mates outside the gates of
their Italian prison camps or of going
into Greece again, this time as libera-
tors, nothing would delight the Diggers
more than to tackle the Japs in a place
where the Seventh Armored Division
couid roll them up, and with the Geor-
dies or the Jocks on a flank. Alike in
taking and administering punishment, the
British have proved themselves the
toughest of races and Mussolini was
sure they had grown soft!
And the strategy, like Montgomery’s
tactics, was British. It was not Mr.
Churchill’s invention, being indeed far
older than he. But, always “a Mediter-
ranean man,” Mr. Churchill saw how
essential it was, given skilful adaptation
of the mechanical changes necessitated
by modern weapons and methods of
transport, to the successful prosecution of
the war against Italy, and how, with Italy
knocked out, Germany, as well as being
completely blockaded, except in the
Baltic, would become assailable at vulner-
able points and a great deal more sea-
power could be thrown against Japan,
with or without the Italian fleet. He may
not have fully realised this till after the
disasters in the Pacific, but then the
Curtin Government never realised it at
all.
The support Mr. Churchill gave to this
strategy sometimes erred on the side of
meddling. In 1942 especially he seemed
capricious in his search for suitable in-
struments, and not particularly generous
when failures occurred till he picked
Alexander and Montgomery. But he did
pick Alexander and Montgomery, and
he did support the strategy whose prin-
ciples were laid down by Jacky Fisher,
and the repudiation of which in the last
war Fisher never ceased to deplore ; and
he held to it stubbornly, and with a
wealth of picturesque language, while
interested and ignorant parties clamored
for the clumsy massing of relays of troop-
ships and warships, regardless of slaugh-
ter, in the Narrow Seas. And now he has
the satisfaction of knowing that the
strategy was right, and that in forcing the
surrender of Italy it has shortened the
wars against Germany and Japan.
To say, as Second-Fronters were still
doing last week, that the operations
against Italy have not even reduced the
pressure on Russia is not only character-
istic mendacity but black ingratitude.
Leaving out of reckoning the manifold
benefits to Russia that the freeing of
the Mediterranean will bring, the
invasion of Tunisia was followed by
the withdrawal of Italian troops from
Russia until not a man was left—
and Stalin himself said there were
10 divisions there in 1942; the Germans
made it 19. The defeat of Italy has thrown
heavy additional burdens on the Ger-
mans everywhere, especially in the Bal-
kans ; and it was the loss of the Balkans,
held for them by the Bulgarians, that
compelled them to sue for peace in 1918.
Such, at least, was Ludendorff s explana-
tion, set down in a book, and repeated in
a conversation with a great Scottish
soldier; and that conversation is worth
recalling for its bearing on contemporary
events.
lan Hamilton to Ludendorff (April 20,
1922):
On October 2, 1918, you sent off Major
Freiherr Von Bush to tell your Govern-
ment that the military situation had become
hopeless. In your dispatch your Excellency
placed the collapse of Bulgaria first, as, m
your opinion, this was the decisive and
desperate factor. Our British war students
have asked me to press you upon the point.
They doubt whether the signing of the
Armistice by the Bulgarian Government on
September 30 could have had indeed so
momentous an effect. The advancing army
of the West was treading upon your heels;
Bulgaria was far away.
Ludendorff to lan Hamilton:
The collapse of Bulgaria was put first
by me among the causes calling impera-
tively for an armistice because it stood first
in my mind. The Bulgarian collapse broke
our front. In the west we were holding
on; there was no serious rupture of our line;
the Entente armies had marched themselves
into a stickfast; there was very little pros-
pect of Foch being able to break through
the German armies of the West before they
could fall back upon the Rhine. There was
a bad tone among the communication
troops; there was a lack of tone in our
nation; but two-thirds of the first-line
troops were still fit to put up a fight; and
one at least of the Entente nations [the
U.S.A.] might have hesitated before in-
vasion.
But what was the use of even thinking of
these ’things, or of whether, by contact
with their native soil, enthusiasm might not
have again inspired the ranks? For there,
behind us, a huge hole had suddenly opened
in our system 6f defence —a hole big
enough to allow armies to march into our
vitals with safe lines of communication.
Behind the huge Bulgarian breach Austria-
Hungary stood perfectly naked. We knew
it. By the end of October we should have
had to reckon with an enemy force fitted
out with water transport on the Danube.
Checkmate, in short, and there was no
possibility of escape, except by a miracle.
Germany minus Austria-Hungary could
not go on any longer. Scientifically the
situation was hopeless; then why spin out
the agony?
From the heel of Italy to the Balkans
is only a step, and now, as in 1918 —
though history never repeats itself exactly
—stout Serbs and Greeks are fighting the
enemy. Croats and Hungarians are again
on his side, and so on this occasion are
Rumanians, and also Bulgarians, though
the only fighting the Bulgarians have done
has been incident to grabbing the terri-
tory of hostile populations defeated by
the Germans. They are once more in
the position of trying to hold down
Europe, almost everywhere loaded with
dynamite, with inferior forces, the initia-
tive lost and the charm of victory
snapped. Before long the western Allies
will be in a position to reduce the Bul-
gar and*Rumanian cities to ruins, and
with them Budapest and Vienna, Inns-
bruck, Salzburg and Munich. Corsica
and Crete are theirs for the taking, and
they can invade Greece and southern
France whenever it suits them to do so.
In short, the defeat of Hitler’s Ger-
many is certain, however long it may be
delayed.
A Different Gallipoli.
On Saturday, September 4, dailies had
plenty of lively news for the entertain-
ment of home-frenters. At 4.30 a.m. on
the previous day the British Eighth Army
had reminded the Axis of the fourth anni-
versary of the war, and rubbed home the
point that the Axis was now everywhere
losing, by forcing, the first successful
landing on the European mainland, at the
toe of Italy. From the Russian front
came reports of a “disordered Nazi
rout”; from New Guinea an account of
the biggest air raid against the Japs up
there to date. As a pleasing, gentler ac-
companiment, news also of the arrival
here of Mrs. Roosevelt, and many happy
pictures of America’s First Lady.
By way of contrast, plentiful news as
well of home-fronters hard at it again
sabotaging the country’s war effort with
a fresh outbreak of the strikes that had
marvellously ceased just before election
day. In the Sydney belt a thousand
strikers in the meat industry had begun
the stoppage which Cantor, J., was to
describe as “a strike against the com-
munity in general, the fighting forces....
and our kinsmen overseas.” Also, to
ensure that a Government-owned freighter
loaded with “a vital war cargo for a
northern area” would duly sail, naval
ratings had had to be ordered in to take
the place of the striking seamen. “Not
the first occasion recently,” declared De
Baun, J., “on which it has been neces-
sary to use naval ratings to avoid delays
to war cargoes in ships bound for opera-
tional areas.”
Though Australians were not to know
it till several days later, there was Aus-
tralian news in making on that same
September 4 right up to the exciting
standard of that day’s news from over-
seas. Compared with the overseas news
of that date the home-front strike news
had seemed miserably cheap. It looked a
great deal more so when the news of the
A.l.F.’s fresh magnificent achievement in
New Guinea was eventually given out.
If such a feeling could be credited to
them, the leaders of the home-front
strikers would have read with shame
what the great bulk of Australians, when
at last it appeared in print, read with
pride and with renewed confidence.
There were many other encouraging
features about the “smashing blow dealt
to the Japanese in New Guinea” at 6.30
a.m. that day. It was described in re-
ports as the first occasion on which
Australians had invaded an enemy-held
coast since Gallipoli. There, fortunately,
resemblance to the Gallipoli landing ends.
Even in the men taking part there was a
most important difference. The actual
fighting spirit of those who went ashore
at Anzac could not be surpassed, but they
were then an eager lot of raw troops —
so eager that many of them, for one
reason or another not due to go ashore
on the first day, slid down ropes to stow
away in destroyers and landing boats in
order to get there.
There might not have been that parti-
cular sort of eagerness in these later
A.I.F. men landing to cut off the big Jap
base at Lae, but there was something
more important from the fighting point
of view. The men bearing down on Tae
have the fighting advantage of belonging
to “a famous A.I.F. division which won
a world-wide reputation in the Middle
East.” That is, they are thoroughly
seasoned soldiers. Not only in battle but
from enlistment they have been trained
as the men of April, 1915, never were.
Equipment is better; so are weapons;
and all the reports show that the organi-
sation as a whole for this latest landing
was superb—as is now what is only to be
expected with such a tried pastmaster a§
General Blarney working on the job with
such a great leader as General Mac-
Arthur. It is a sufficient comment on the
whole tribe of yelping Armchair Strate-
gists and Fireside Fusiliers that if any-
body had taken any notice of their yelps
General Blarney would have been sacked
long ago.
As he, with General MacArthur and an
evidently most efficient staff, organised it,
this latest A.I.F. landing from the sea
and the landings of Americans and Aus-
tralian artillerymen from the air were
in every way as successful as any such
operation could possibly be. The plan-
ning began months ago. Described by
General Blarney as “certainly the best-
kept secret of the war in the South-west
Pacific area,” the plan was reported by
eyewitness observers to have been fault-
lessly executed. A “S. M. Herald” war
correspondent—keeping up a quite
notable tradition by being present in one
of the landing barges—said: “As a syn-
chronised operation in which all three
offensive arms were used it may go down
as one of the war’s classics.”
The transports and their escorts,
assembled in the Huon Gulf—most un-
lucky waters for the Japs—loaded the
landing barges before day broke. At 6.30
they began moving in, the sky above sud-
denly black with our ’planes, the whole
surface of the inshore sea darkened, too,
with a protective smokescreen laid by the
warships. “In less than four and a half
hours a famous A.I.F. force had been
landed with an astonishing quantity of
equipment and supplies, roads were being
built, guns were in position and a beach-
head established.” As another fine fruit
of the superb organising, casualties thus
far were very slight— not more than 30,
all caused by three Zeros and three Jap
bombers which flashed through, bombed
and strafed the barges on their way, and
kept going.
At Gallipoli many lost their lives waist
deep in water getting ashore, and once
there it was hard fighting all the way
against prepared posts right at hand.
Instead of the surprise element, the enemy
had been warned of the intended landing
by shelling in advance. The greatest con-
trast was in the nature and quantities of
equipment and supplies. At once in the
Huon Gulf landing the supplies and
equipment were pouring ashore and being
used and operated—steel matting along
the beach for trucks, jeeps, artillery and
caterpillars ; loudspeaker systems giving
instructions to those ashore and direct-
ing others coming ashore ; portable hos-
pitals set up and taking care of the few
wounded; bulldozers pushing rough
tracks through the jungle fringing the
beach.
Certainly a wonderful contrast against
the eager but raw and untrained troops
and the general rough-and-ready tactics
of Gallipoli. Before Gallipoli was over,
of course, the untrained troops had be-
come trained and battle-wise, and their
leaders also. They kept on improving,
in fighting quality and leadership, right
through that earlier world war. These
men of another “famous A.I.F. division
cutting off Lae are of the same quality,
with better training and better equipment,
and with leadership—in the persons of
General Blarney and others —quite evi-
dently up to the very highest standards
attained before the end in that other war.
A point to be noted is that these
leaders—-butts of hen-headed carpers only
a little time back —are the efficient soldiers
they are not by virtue of their country s
encouragement but wholly by their own,
more often than not discouraged, ettoits.
They deserve better treatment hencetortn.
Australia can never repay its debt to
them. Nor, for that matter, can its deot
to the A.I.F. ever be paid. It is therefore
all the more a steadying thought tnat
Australia, which already owes the A.l.r.
so much, only the other day endorse
by a thumping majority the policy or
leaving the fighting part to these volun-
teers to do over and over again (as t ey
did once before), while they are mean-
while whittled down (as they were once
before), and while the great bulk of the
other part of the separated army (
majority Australia endorses) has
heard a shot fired.
In this connection there is a stl
steadying thought f° r j h I S - e wncouraae-
flable enthusiasm and high
ment-that raised by General Blarney s
warning against expecting h P
easy victory. There are, in . .
tough days and hard fighting VL icie .
the A.1.F., while expendable (w h wide
spread approval), is not inexhaustible.


PLAIN ENGLISH
A Message to Curtin.
Resolution, “moved by Dr, E. P. Dark,
of Katoomba, seconded by Mr. Hayter,
of Windsor,” and carried with the direc-
tion that it should be “forwarded to the
Prime Minister at Canberra and to the
Soviet Ambassador”:
That the Macquarie A.L.P. Assembly
urges the Commonwealth Parliament to
make it clear to Mr. Churchill that the
people of Australia feel themselves in-
volved in the disgrace that the British
Cabinet has incurred through its failure to .
fulfil the promise, first made in 1942, since
then twice repeated, to take action that will
relieve the intolerable burden borne by the
Russians We regard this failure as bring-
ing unnecessary suffering and death, not
only to the Russians but to the people of
all democracies, and to all those in occu-
pied countries who are still heroically
struggling against the Fascists.
Russia-Firsters, like racehorses, run in all
shapes, and brass-fronted insolence is a
characteristic of the breed ; so there is
nothing unusual in the resolution fathered
by the gentlemen from Katoomba and
Windsor. What is unusual is that Mr.
Chifley and State Ministers Kelly and
Hamilton Knight were “present at the
meeting” (“Blue Mountains Advertiser”)
at which the foul insult to the British
Cabinet and the impudent association of
the Australian people’s name with it were
perpetrated, Mr. Chifley as member for
the district as well as Commonwealth
Treasurer, without making any recorded
objection.
On the contrary, Mr. Chifley seems to
have been not only cheerful but com-
plimentary, and on one point he was
candid. He said “the election had been
fought on Labor’s defence policy”—that
is, the policy of having two armies, with
full liability for one, and limited lia-
bility for the other —and that “many
people voted Labor who had never done
so before.” True; and they voted Labor
mainly because of “Labor’s defence
policy,” which is so different from
British Labor’s defence policy, though
newspapers and correspondents continue
to insist that it was because these “many
people” were alienated by Mr. Fadden’s
platform performance and the weak-
nesses of his organisations.
“It is pleasing to see,” Mr. Chifley con-
cluded, “that the Macquarie A.L.P.
Assembly is becoming more represen-
tative.” More representative of what?
Moscowmania? Anglophobia? Anti-
Australianism or what amounts to it?
And what else does it amount to, this
cold-hearted amateur strategy? Plainly
the subscribers to it have no pride in the
great operations that have freed the Medi-
terranean and will shorten the war
against Japan, and no gratitude to the
British service men who have saved us
all, being indeed prepared to learn
fortably, 12,000 miles away, that myriads*
of them have been slaughtered in the
fancied interests of a country which is
not fighting the Japanese.
Apropos of this demand for the shed-
ding of British blood Mr. Churchill has
said that the lives of his soldiers will not
be squandered for political considera-
tions of any kind. What will Mr. Cur-
tin say now that the squandering of
British lives for political considerations
has been put to him as a necessity de-
manded by “the people of Australia” to
remove “the disgrace that the British
Cabinet has incurred,” and that by the
principal Labor organisation in his
Treasurer’s electorate?
The Immense Job Ahead.
Even after the Fascist leader and his
system had fallen, and his country was
giving up the fight, we were told that this
war for survival is “a war against Fas-
cism,” and “Fight Fascism!” was heard
in many places. Raised in the first place
by Communists, and repeated by people
who ought to have known better, it is
the silliest warcry on record.
Except in England, where the imitation
Blackshirt party of Mosley, outcome of
wounded vanity and unsatisfied ambition,
destroyed itself by its own absurdities,
Fascism never made and never could
have made the slightest appeal to Eng-
lish-speaking people. The pretence that
it did gave a serio-comic appearance of
strength to the weakest of our enemies.
But though the Italian organisation dis-
appeared in a night, the thing itself is
not so easy to get rid of. There are
English-speaking people who cherish the
notion that the Latins yearn for Parlia-
mentary government, which grew natu-
rally out of England’s geographical posi-
tion and the genius of the English race.
Other English-speaking people prescribe
revolution for the ills of Europe, though
it would naturally be Communist revolu-
tion, with civil wars as the first-
fruits and foreign wars to follow, as in
these cases they always do. It is an
article of faith with Dorothy Thompson
and American commentators of the other
sex that “the European revolution” is
actually in progress, and that it is the
duty of the Anglo-American Govern-
ments to speed it. The report of a New
York “Times” correspondent, Herbert
Matthews, on the proceedings of
A.M.G.O.T. in Sicily must have infuriated
these dreaming pedants.
A.M.G.O.T. began, it seems, by “abol-
ishing all Fascist labor organisations
within the island and proclaiming a free
labor movement.” But it had to continue
the Fascist ban on strikes and lockouts,
though “it is understood that strikes and
lockouts will be legalised as early as pos-
sible,” and continue also “for a time”
existing contracts between workers and
employers, covering hours, wages and
conditions.
Thus the Allies have abandoned the idea
, of applying Anglo-Saxon labor principles
to the Italians. Instead they are retaining
the best features of Fascism and making
the resumption of syndicalism possible.
It is the same with the apparatus of
government;
A.M.G.O.T. has not greatly changed
Sicilian personnel, as Fascist officials are
needed to carry on. The Allies found
chaos in Sicily and the Sicilians with little
desire to run their own government.
Marshal Badoglio, who has been working
on parallel lines with A.M.G.0.T., and is
trying to abolish Fascism, must similarly
use Fascist!.
That appeared only six weeks after
Mr. Roosevelt’s statement to the world:
“We will have no truck with Fascism in
any shape or form ; we will permit no
vestige of Fascism to remain.”
It is one thing, the correspondent pro-
ceeded, to talk about abolishing Fascism
and Nazism and another thing to accom-
plish it. That means “setting a new pat-
tern for much of post-war Europe,” and
the “enormity” of the job is beginning
to show out.
A.M.G.O.T. has a small problem in
Palermo compared with the problem
awaiting it in Rome, and that will be easy
compared with the Berlin problem. We
are getting an idea of what reconstruction
is going to mean.
In Europe there are six enemy coun-
tries and 12 enemy-occupied countries,
some of them with two or more races.
Into most of the 18 countries the Allies
will have to send armed forces and all
manner of supplies ; in all they will be
concerned with the maintenance of order,
political reconstruction and the preven-
tion of future wars. A greater task no
men have had since the dawn of history,
and now that it has been entered upon
by the Anglo-American leaders it will be
their necessity and right to ask their
peoples to trust and support them.
Loose Tongues and Pens.
The Commonwealth Government has
launched a campaign—not before it is
needed —against the type of letter-writer,
often feminine, who gossips about infor-
mation of use to the enemy and likely to
endanger the lives of members of the
forces.
In any other country at war some of
the revelations exhibited by the official
promoters of the campaign would land
the writers, as well as the original
blabbers, in gaol for long terms. In
happy-go-lucky Australia, though filed
evidence shows that hundreds of people,
when the country was in danger of attack
from the sea, revealed the location, ex-
tent and nature of large munition plants,
explosive factories, oil stores and ships,
which a chance ’plane could have sent
up in mist along with thousands of
workers, there have been few prosecu-
tions and no really stiff penalties.
It is little use issuing warnings to
criminal chatterers that they may be fined
“£20 —6s. 6d. a word” for writing to
friends overseas information like the
following:
I am now working in the laboratory at
, four miles south of , together
with . It is producing all the
in Australia. The firm makes all classes
of f r om and . The formula
of the is Australian and a closely-
guarded secret. There are people em-
ployed by the company as workers.
Larger fines were inflicted in Mr. Hef-
fron’s heyday for leaving windows
alight in the Sydney blackout.
The next step after the warning cam-
paign now in progress should be the
abolition of fines for breaches of the
regulations and the institution of gaol
without the option. But before the
change is made the Government should
pay a little attention to its own docu-
ments. The writer has one at hand,
received through the post, which contains
information that any enemy attacker of
this country or its approaches would give
a good deal to have.
“YOU PAINT IT OUT, ADOLF—IT’S MORE IN YOUR LINE THAN MINE!”


C/3
/^s
■pp* """r "V i y &&
fWfc ta» s
.R. HARDWALL PLASTER
Packed in Jute Bagt
PL
Specially designed to
resist more- than -
ordinary wear, this
exceptionally hard
gypsum finishing plas-
ter is recommended
for all wall surfaces
which are subject to
exceptional wear and
tear. It is, of course,
essential that this
work be done by ex-
pert plasterers.
THE COLONIAL SUGAR REFINING COMPANY LTD.
(Building Materials Division),
SYDNEY - - MELBOURNE - - BRISBANE - - ADELAIDE - - PERTH
P. 1-43.
BUY
WAR SAVINGS CERTIFICATES
and
NATIONAL SAVINGS BONDS
Space by
MAKERS OF THE ECONOMY SAUCE
POLITICAL POINTS
With Darwin still in doubt at the be-
ginning of the week. Labor will have 49
seats in the House, having gained 14 and
lost one. It is sure of 23 seats in the
Senate after June 30, but in the mean-
time will lack a caucus-bound majority.
Refused a place on the N.S.W. ticket,
and with his deposit forfeited to the
Crown, Arthur will be in a position to
dish Labor measures for two sessions—a
position fraught with freakish possibi-
lities.
Hughes, as U.A.P. leader, will go back
to Canberra with at most one supporter
from N. S. Wales, and Fadden, as C.P.
leader, with at most one C.P. supporter
from Queensland —Adermann, the new
man from Maranoa, says he doesn’t
regard Artie as boss. Seeing that Vic-
toria will have nine of the 22 (or 23)
Opposition members, with all returned,
Menzies has unassailable claims to Oppo-
sition captaincy. He should certainly
become the leader of the larger group
if they decide to go separate ways.
Archie Cameron disappointed his
numerous enemies among the writing
boys by getting returned for Barker
(S.A.) with a majority of 2002. He was
one of the few Oppositionists to receive
more service votes than the Labor man,
and he was the only one elected west of
Canberra.
Lang in Reid and Blackburn in Bourke
got special issues of safety-for-Alfie votes,
being anti-conscriptionists, and led the
branded candidates by thousands on
primaries. U.A.P. preferences put their
very ordinary opponents in. “Rather
sillay,” as the goose-girl said.
Before Mrs. Roosevelt arrived a Syd-
ney “Herald” reviewer stigmatised Alex-
ander Hamilton as “head of a powerful
internal faction that worked for the de-
struction of the young Republic,” alleg-
ing also that “Hamilton and his coterie
were the Fascists of their day.” At Can-
berra, as the First Lady has recorded,
the P.M. told her that “the Federal Gov-
ernment here was greatly influenced by
Alexander Hamilton’s ideas.” Hamilton’s
ideas about the need for Protection, for
the taking over of State debts and for
“a strong Union and energetic Govern-
ment that should rest as much as possible
on the shoulders of the people and as
little as possible on those of the State
legislatures” certainly stamped them-
selves on the minds of the authors of our
Federal Union. Unfortunately, they did
not make it strong enough, though they
put it in the way of becoming stronger.
Nothing fails like failure, and the Vic-
torian U.A.P. failed to regain the Nuna-
wading Assembly seat. Held by Menzies
before he transferred to Canberra, and
then by Boylan, it passed to Mrs. Weber
for six years ; that lady, in an unfortunate
moment, gave it up to contest Federal
Henty. There were seven candidates at
the by-election, and three lost their
deposits; Gray, Mrs. Weber’s Labor
opponent, put on a couple of thousand
primaries, and got in on preferences. An
Old Digger, he goes to Spring-street from
the Box Hill Council, in whose Town Hall
he was declared elected. He was health
inspector.
In the 17th House of Representatives,
as in the 16th, Queensland will have six
Labor and four Opposition members.
But there will be two new men:
Baker (Labor), who fell for the Bris-
bane Lie, was unseated by Ader-
mann (C.P.) in Maranoa, and Jolly
(U.A.P.) by Hadley in Lilley, which,
created in 1913, never had a Labor
member before. Jolly, the first Mayor of
Greater Brisbane and one of the few men
at Canberra with a real knowledge of
finance, has six sons at the war; but
surely that couldn’t have settled him?
The House is not to have a lady Labor
member, though the Senate is. To the
confusion of the Corns., who withdrew
a skirted candidate of their own when
Mrs. Street came out, that voluble Parlor
Pink was beaten rather easily by Harrison
"At the End of the Road
And the Last Load Home."
—she contributed to her own discomfi-
ture by spoiling her party’s efforts to keep
in with Wentworth, of whose prefer-
ences she failed to get one in five. Dame
Enid Lyons, though party totals in Dar-
win were against her on Monday, was still
given an excellent chance. If beaten
Dame Enid will come again, but if Mrs.
Street gets another Labor nomination it
will be astonishing.
Dr. Evatt’s poll in Barton, till he came
along always a borderline electorate, was
immense; primaries, 51,296 ; absolute
majority, 33,463. Labor owes him so
much and thinks so highly of him that
if he wants a Constitutional referendum
“with as little delay as possible”—and
he said as much at the declaration of the
poll—it will let him have one. But, the
failure of the Canberra conference not-
withstanding, it would be much less diffi-
cult to get the required powers by apply-
ing pressure to the State Governments.
Service men don’t want to do any more
voting before the peace-time election,
and the influences dominant last month
might be absent altogether from a refer-
endum.
Coles finished in Henty with an abso-
lute majority of 1716 over young Gullett
and Brigadier Lind ; it wouldn’t have been
much more had Lind preferences (6089)
been counted. Labor furnished most of
Coles’s votes, as it did those of Wilson in
Wimmera. Since the support they gave
apd the stifling of legitimate aspirations
among pledge-and-caucus men in their
electorates are needed no longer, there
may be no “next time” for either.
Since April 2, 1935, head of a Govern-
ment whose party, though always grossly
overrepresented, has never had more than
two-fifths of the Assembly members,
Dunstan resigned on Friday. The
Agrarians had been defeated on a U.A.P.
amendment to a Labor no-confidence
motion on the redistribution issue ; ac-
cepted by Labor and three Independents,
it demanded redistribution “on the basis
of 100 metropolitan electors to 68
country electors,” which would give the
.city 35 seats and the country 30. What
the outcome will be nobody knew at the
week-end. Hollway, the U.A.P. leader,
said he wouldn’t support a Labor Gov-
ernment, and Dunstan can’t accept the
100-68 ratio and a C.P.-U.A.P. Govern-
ment without sacrificing principles to ex-
pediency—and plums. Still there is one
thing on which all the Victorian parties
have hitherto been beautifully unanimous
—that principles don’t matter a rap.
Points from Cain’s indictment of Dun-
stan :
At the Commonwealth election the
Country party polled fewer than 100,000
primary votes in Victoria; and at least half
Mr. Wilson’s votes were Labor votes. At
the State election it got only 128,000 votes
out of 840,000. Its vote has never reached
even one-sixth of the enrolments.
And did Cain and party consistently
oppose this minority party? No, they
kept it in office for nearly eight years.
On a lightning tour of U.S. military
establishments which took in Iceland,
Britain, the Middle East and New Guinea,
five Senators from Washington have cast
up in Australia. At Cairo they met a
Sydney “D.T.” young man, who sneered
at them in the strain in which his paper
used to sneer at British generals. In point
of fact, they are able and eminent repre-
sentatives of both historic parties—one,
Senator Lodge, is the rising hope of a great
family, and another, Senator Chandler,
has proved himself a particularly good
friend of Australia. No doubt the party
is used to the impertinences of Left-Wing
louts, and will dismiss this latest issue
with the contempt it deserves.
In the unexplained absence of their
Communist union secretary —perhaps his
head had burst —the seamen called off
their N.S.W. strike, which led to “several
vessels” being taken to sea by naval rat-
ings ; but the Sydney slaughtermen are
still out. They get more pay for less toil
and have had more “investigations” than
any other band of stock-killers that could
be named. Though they are Government
employees, two sets of Labor Ministers
wait on them humbly when they break
State industrial laws and Commonwealth
security regulations. They remain masters
of the situation and the community.
Sydney has become used to being de-
prived of meat and bread by lawbreakers.
Judging by the way it votes, it likes being
union-ridden and doesn’t really expect
Labor Governments to govern.
“MacArthur for President” clubs are
springing up in the U.S.A., and the one
in Chicago is going to, run the general in
the Illinois primary without asking for
his consent, on the ground that “it is
the inalienable right of the American
people to draft any citizen for service to
his country, particularly in a time of
peril.” At the Chicago club’s first meet-
ing a captain who served under him in
France gave a personal assurance that
“General MacArthur believes whole-
heartedly in individual initiative and the
private enterprise that made America
great.”
Unique among Senate contests was the
one in Tasmania. On the mainland Min-
istry and Opposition put up the precise
number of candidates required to fill the
vacancies and advised the electors how
to vote for each of them and against each
of their opponents. In Tasmania, with
three vacancies. Labor ran five candi-
dates and the Opposition six, and each
counselled its supporters to vote in the
order of their preference; so there was
a great struggle for “firsts.” Darcey, the
ancient credit crank, came out with a
photograph of himself giving the banks
beans, and with a printed exhortation to
the peepul to cast out “U.A.P. Fascism”
and “C.P. Nazism.” Unfortunately for
him, Laborites placed him so low on their
lists that he will need U.A.P.-C.P. prefer-
ences, so he will most probably go out.
Keith Murdoch, the newspaper knight,
has discovered that some Communists are
“charming... .men of enthusiasm, cour-
age and idealism,” and others just “gang-
sters and careerists.”
But whether charming or bullying they
have one thing in common —they impeded
and opposed our country’s war effort until
Soviet Russia became involved, and their
attitude after Russia goes out of the war
will again be disloyal and destructive.
Does this mean that the newspaper knight
expects the war to continue after Russia
goes out of it? If so, does he really
think it a fair proposition that the
English-speaking nations should (1) make
Europe safe for Russia and, that
achieved, (2) preserve Russia’s Asiatic
empire, at the risk of Russia’s becoming
supreme in Asia, without its taking a
hand in the game. Newspaper knights
who lay down disputable propositions in
these great matters should at least make
their meaning clear.
[For election matter in this issue, John
Edward Webb, Cecil Mann and David Adams,
all of 252 George-street, Sydney, take the
responsibility.]


EXBI-42
“This Will be a Darning Needle Year”
—says the Prime Minister.
A stitch in time saves nine. An occasional call on your Exide Dealer will keep your
battery up to the mark. When replacement is needed remember . . .
BATTERIES
Still Keep Going When the Rest Have Stopped
Let this be Your
Wartime Slogan.
PERSONAL ITEMS
Two of Maoriland’s warrior Parlia-
mentarians are sure of their seats for the
next three years. Brigadier Hargest, the
Southland farmer who represents Joe
Ward’s old constituency, Awarua, and
Capt, T. L. Macdonald, sailor-turned-
farmer, who holds Mataura, were allowed
walkovers. Both are Oppositionists.
Hargest, commander of the sth Infantry
Brigade, N.Z.E.F., who escaped from a
prison camp in Italy, was last heard of
in Switzerland. Macdonald was wounded
and was invalided home some time ago
from the Middle East.
“C.Q.”: Though in his later years
Streeton (B. 8/9/’43) never mixed in the
artistic hurly-burly, he came down from
his Olympian heights for a while when
he became “Argus” critic and began
dropping in at art shows, to the perturba-
tion of the proprietors, who were not
used to critics of his tonnage. He ex-
pressed dislike at having to look at pic-
tures when anybody else was present, so
one director always closed the door of
his gallery when Streeton was making his
inspection. Painting was only one of
Streeton’s interests., No ordinary horti-
culturist, he was as well a first-class car-
penter, making a lot of his own furniture.
He liked music, the louder the better. He
built himself an electric pick-up with a
loudspeaker suitable for a town hall, and
its stentorian voice soothed him for hours
on end.
One of the youngest of the fine crop
of young A-LF. officers, Lieut. John N.
Pearson, led the artillerymen who para-
chuted with their guns into the Mark-
ham Valley. At 22 he’s already a
veteran. He gained his commission in
the A.I.F. at 20, and saw service in Syria
before returning to go on to New Guinea
last year. Only six years back he was
representing Melbourne Grammar in foot-
ball and cricket, and winning the school’s
boxing championship for his weight. A
couple of years later, at 18, he was play-
ing first-grade cricket with Melbourne
C.C. He’s a son of L. T. Pearson, of
Richmond (N.S.W.).
Charles Barrett, the
Melbourne naturalist
who has pushed into
many far corners of
this continent and writ-
ten a raft of books
about them, is engaged
on an anthology of the
bushman’s lore, mainly
for the edification of
the forces; title, The
Swagman’s Notebook.
Barrett has drawn
heavily on The Bulle-
tin’s Aboriginalities
pages and on its poets,
such as “Banjo” Pater-
son and Ogilvie. Mary
Gilmore, lon Idriess
and others have given
him material which
should load the mine
with treasure. A Digger
himself in the last war
—in Egypt and Pales-
tine with the Camel
Field Ambulance —he
found he didn’t want to
read the Thoreau he’d brought with him.
He reckons he knows what this war’s
Diggers want, and there will be nothing
pedantic about the shilling volume.
A note from one of his guests:
Boris of Bulgaria, who lately came to a
still-vague ending, was one of the most acces-
sible and versatile of monarchs. He looked
like a Bourbon rather than like his father Fer-
dinand, and inherited the Bourbon flair for
mechanics which made Louis XVI an accom-
plished locksmith and Boris and Alfonso of
Spain two of the best motor-drivers in Europe.
Boris started the first automobile club in the
Balkans, and when I arrived in Sofia en route
to India by car his invitation —not the usual
royal command —to visit him was waiting. He
spoke English without an accent, mentioned
the charm of Surrey, poured English tea into
man-sized cups (in the Balkans they are apt to
serve it in sherry glasses laced with brandy)
and indulged in the most informal motoring
reminiscences. One of these concerned his
escape while he was out botanising with a pro-
fessor; M. Kolarow, Secretary-General of*
the Comintern, fired on him, killing his chauf-
feur. His Majesty raced down the road, pinched
a bus which had brought the Sofia Transport
Union out on a picnic, and set out hell for
leather for succor for his friend the professor,
who was manfully firing on the raiders, while
the Transport Union yelled in the distance.
Boris seemed moved to mention the incident
only because he was proud of having put
up a good performance in driving the bus, the
gear-change of which he knew nothing about.
Otherwise, he seemed to think the incident a
normal event of Bulgarian life. At that time
he struck me as strongly pro-British, but an
Italian marriage may have changed him.
Vernon Victor Hickman, 8.A., D.Sc.,
was Tasmania University’s choice for the
Chair of Biology, and a good choice,
too. In 1932 he was appointed Ralston
Lecturer in the same line. Latterly he’d
been making a scientific study over
several years of that nowadays somewhat
-rare and pricy bird the crayfish.
Elected president of Adelaide Chamber
of Commerce, Horace Grose steps up
from vice-president and chairman of its
corn-trade section. As well as having
considerable interests in the flour indus-
try of W.A., he is vice-president of the
Federal Council of Flour Millers of Aus-
tralia, chairs the affairs of the W. Thomas
and the Millers’ Produce cos. of S.A.,
and is also a member of the State Ad-
visory Committee of the Australian
Wheat Board, O. L. Isaachsen, g.m. of
the Bank of Adelaide, goes to the vacated
vice-president’s chair.
A captain from Malta:
Owning one of Malta’s oldest family names,
Captain Henry C. Curmi is Commissioner in
Australia for that gallant fragment of the globe.
Last week he and 12,000 fellow-countrymen
scattered hereabouts had their island’s special
Day to celebrate. It dates back 378 years, to
when the Knights of St. John defended Malta
in one of the great heroic sieges of history.
The island’s heroism since then fairly entitles
its people to celebrate any day of the year they
happen to fancy. That doesn’t refer only to
the present war, in which Malta, under
the Union Jack, held out through close on
three years of ruinous bombing and near-
starvation. In the 1914-18 war, of the 211,000
people on the island, 25,000 volunteered for
overseas service. On Malta there is a Roll of
Honor bearing the Maltese who in
that war served in the eSiraordinary total of
135 different units of Empire armies. Capt.
Curmi a keen collector of anything appertain-
COMMISSIONER FOR MALTA.
ing to Malta, rates high in his collection the
Norman Lindsay cartoon tribute to “The In-
vincible Island” (B. 20/5/’42). Here for his
first visit in 1929, when he opened up the office
that he was to return to as Commissioner seven
years later, Capt. Curmi had had earlier
acquaintanceship with Australians. In the
King’s Own Malta Regiment when war began
in 1914, he transferred to artillery, and so to
Anzac. Afterwards he had more acquaintance-
ship with Australians in Egypt and Palestine.
Back in Malta with that war over, he was Com-
missioner for Labor there, and subsequently
was given the job of organising Malta’s “passive
defence.” That was in 1935, so there was some
forethought of what the island would one day
endure in his then classifying all buildings and
providing surgical and other equipment in case
of air raids. Capt. Curmi confesses to an un-
usual brand of hobby. Now 53, he’s been filling
in spare time ever since he was 11 at cabinet-
making.
Don Bradman has 'been put on the
building committee of S.A. Cricket Asso-
ciation. Scrymgour, the president, died
in April, and his chair is taken by Harry
Blinman, who was a prominent S.A. bats-
man 50-odd years back. The “vice” is
Harry Hodgetts. Their colleague as dele-
gates to the Board of Control is Claude
Jennings, who went to England with the
team of 1912 —representing Queensland
at that time. The treasurer is Roy
Middleton, a batsman of the same era ;
the secretary, Bill Jeanes, who was man-
ager of the Australian XI of 1938.
Sydney City Council has an alderman
—F. G. Pursell —who looks like making
a habit of collecting Bronze Medals for
lifesaving. So far he has two —the first
for saving a life in a shark attack ; the
second for saving the life of his own
two-year-old niece when she fell from a
launch into a strong-running, shark-
infested current down at The Spit.
Australian Senators might (?) copy;
July 17 “Saturday Evening Post” had a write-
up of a U.S. Senator —Sen. Edward H. Moore,
of Oklahoma —whose blood would appear to be
worth bottling and importing for transfusions
at Canberra. A week after his election a
Chamber of Commerce in his State wrote
asking him to expedite the allocation of
$700,000 for an airport. The Senator’s letter,
gratifyingly prompt, started off: “You have
no more use for an airport than a cat has for
two tails.” Another time a batch of business-
men who had helped have him elected sought
his aid in getting a new hospital. The Senator
declined to do anything about it, but the hos-
pital went through anyway. Thereupon one of
those who had approached the Senator wrote
him a eulogistic letter, to which Senator
Moore replied: “I want it to be understood
that I made no effort whatever.” He rubbed it
in by stating that in his view the hospital
should have been set up in an entirely different
town. To many anti-New Dealers who wrote
congratulating him on his election as an anti-
New Dealer, he wrote back: “I’ll bet you’re
still accepting [New Deal] benefit payments on
your farm.” Lest any of the new Senators
at Canberra might hereupon go and do some-
thing rash, it should perhaps be added that
Senator Moore, who started in life as a mule-
skinner and describes himself as “only moder-
ately well off,” a little time back sold some of
his oil interests for $30,000,000.
Having looked after the parish for 26
years. Archdeacon Hewgill will resign
as rector of St. Andrew’s, Walkerville
(S.A.), next January. An Irish-born Angli-
can, he went from St. Peter’s College to
Pembroke College, Cambridge, and re-
turned to be curate of Wakefield diocese.
He intends to stay in Walkerville and
carry on as Archdeacon of the Broughton
and Canon of Adelaide.
Dr. Ch. O. van der Plas, head of the
N.E.I. Commission in Australia, pinned
the Meritorious Cross awarded by Queen
Wilhelmina on the breast of Samuel
Jacob, former headmaster of the People’s
School at Dobo, Aru Islands. In April,
1942, local Japanese attempted an in-
surrection at Dobo, and the pedagogue
headed the scanty Dutch forces against
them, organised food distribution and
made himself Governor until a relief
expedition arrived. Jacob escaped with
his wife and seven of his children to
Australia just ahead of the Japanese
occupation. His eldest son is p.o.w. in
Amboina. The father helped to estab-
lish “Penjoeloeh,” first Malay newspaper
to be published in Australia.
Dr. E. W. Hurst, whom S.A. per-
suaded seven years ago to come to Aus-
tralia as director of its Medical and
Veterinary Science Institute, had had
long experience already with the Lister
Institute in London and the Rockefeller
Foundation in the U.S.A. He’s return-
ing to England at the end of this year
to join the Imperial Chemical Co. in
Manchester. Hurst claims to have dis-
covered a really new brain disease while
in Australia.
W. T. Parata, who did most to bring
along Maoriland’s greatest Rugby full-
back, George Nepia, has been made a life
member of the N.Z. Union for his years
of service to Rugby among the Maoris.
Parata managed the Rugby native teams
that visited Australia in 1910 and 1913,
as well as several teams that visited Aus-
tralia after the last war. He was co-
manager of the Maori team that toured
Britain and France in 1926.
Succeeding the late C. F. G. Johnson
as Engineer of Water Supply in S.A.,
R. G. Wilton was born in Adelaide in.
1892, educated at P.A.C., Adelaide Uni.
and School of Mines, and had his first
job with the Irrigation Department. Re-
turning from the 1914-18 war, he went
with the Irrigation Commission to Cob-
dogla and Chaffey. Prof. J. R. Wilton,
of Adelaide Uni., is a brother.
Clive Neild, headmaster of Koornong,
Warrandyte, is one of Victoria’s unusual
schoolmen. A disciple of A. S. Neil,
whom he knew in England, he started his
school with his wife to assist him and
almost as many teachers as pupils. As
his unorthodox methods became known,
adverse and favorable comments got him
a reputation somewhat similar to that of
his world-famous exemplar. Now he has
upwards of 80 pupils who practise self-
government, build their own schoolrooms,
have their own theatre and produce their
own plays and are not averse to arguing
NEILD, of Koornong.
the point with their teachers. Neild en-
courages them to express themselves in
drawing and painting without adult inter-
ference, and recently they held a city
exhibition.
“S.T.S.”: Ashley Teece (/lately dead in
Victoria) had a long innings about 30
years back as minister at Clayton, a big
Congregational church of suburban Ade-
laide ; to go into the church at all he had
given up a profitable career under his
famous father of the A.M.P. But, after
brilliant service in the last war, he moved
over to Melbourne to a job with the
Repat. Commission. When he came back
to Adelaide to settle up his affairs I
greeted him with “Yes, I thought you’d
get on better with Diggers than with
deacons.”- “Oh, did you write that?”
he grinned. “That” was The Bulletin
epitaph on his pulpit career —and I had
written it. But be was a jolly good chap-
lain, too.
Successor to Air-Commodore L. M.
Isitt, who stepped up to the job of head
of the R.N.Z.A.F., Air-Commodore
Geoffrey Twyford Jarman, D. 5.0.,
D.F.C., has long been a birdman. A
native of Ashburton, and a former Rugby
rep., Jarman left N.Z. Public Works in
1930 to join the R.A.F. In England
when the war broke out, he took part
in many raids on enemy targets. He’s 37.
Into the silence:
In Adelaide, at 59, C. B. Nicholson, who
had been lent to S.A. by Vic. only a month
before to help in the Liberty Loan. For he
was a great organiser in Melbourne, notably
for the Centenary and for the George V
Jubilee.
At Broadford (Vic.) Mine. Mary Rasquin,
whose cafe, the Maison Rasquin, in Collins-
street, was noted both for its dinners and its
diners.: The dinner given to the Duke of
Windsor at Parliament House in 1920 was one
of her artistic efforts.
At New Plymouth (M.L.), at 75, George R.
Croll, an accepted world-authority on refrigera-
tion.
In Sydney, at 76, Stuart Campbell Pottie,
leading veterinary surgeon since 1891, and vice-
president of the Royal Agricultural Society since
1926.
After a level-crossing accident near Hobart,
Alison Bell, cashier and chief clerk at the
University of Tasmania since 1931. Some
years back he became known as a writer of
children’s books.
* At 79, in Melbourne, Andrew Manzie. A
member of Richmond Football Club’s com-
mittee from 1902 to 1904, he built up the Mel-
bourne team after the last war, was a delegate
to the Australian National Football Council
and a life member of the Victorian Football
League.


Society
"AND IT'S PRINTED
WITH WIMBLE'S INKS"
“Tuart”: Musing on Musso.’s inglori-
ous exit and the collapse of his country,
I was reminded of an Italian pug who
came this way quarter of a century ago
via the U.S.A.: Joe Grim, “the Iron
Man.” Not unlike the Douche in appear-
ance, and with a line of brag as outrage-
ous in its way, he used to stride into
newspaper offices, strike an attitude and
beef out some introductory mush which
a sportive American boxing reporter had
written for him;
Biga da poonch!
Biga da muse’!
I vin biga da fight
Vit’ biga da Reader!
The last word was the name of the an-
tagonist with whom he was matched,
necessarily changed in his progress from
city to city. Reader, nicknamed “Props,”
in delicate allusion to his calling, was
the Iron Man’s Sydney adversary ; their
all-in brawl, which ended in the mob
rushing the ring and the Iron Man being
shepherded to his dressing-room by
police, is still talked of when old gentle-
men with thick ears meet for discussion
of the romantic past. Grim’s Australian
progress ended in Perth, where he went
“ You'll LOVE Yarranullawirragai!"
on a wild bender and tackled a cop. The
John brought him down with a perfect
half-nelson, and led him off to the lock-
up, whence he was taken to another in-
stitution. Released, he cadged his fare
back to Sydney, and so to the U.S.A.,
where, I suppose, the fish-and-chips in-
dustry claimed him again. He couldn’t
fight, but he had the notion, till it was
dispelled, that he was impervious to the
knockout.
• ’
“Oxmead”: I take it that everybody
who reads about boxing knows what a
“southpaw” is, but I would like to know
something about the derivation of this
quaint Americanism. The late J. B. Hig-
ginson, when he wrote about cricket, in-
troduced me to a new term for a left-
hand bowler in “molly-hander,” which is
at least intelligible. And now I find a
sporting writer, in a quest for a synonym
for the overworked “southpaw,” falling
back on “fork-hander.” It’s the same
thing, of course, but how and where was
the more popular term evolved?
* * :fi Jfc
“A Major”; “Cauboy’s” guess (B.
8/9/’43) that the young people who make
up the bulk of the audience at Mel-
bourne symphony concerts “know very
little about music,” and that they are
incapable of analysing the various factors
that go to the making
of a meritorious orchestral
performance, may be well-
founded, but what of it?
If musical appreciation de-
pended on a sound know-
ledge of harmony and
counterpoint, traditional
form, orchestration, the
modes and instrumental
technique, the concert
business would fold up to-
morrow for lack of audi-
ences, as only a few
Mus.Ds, and Mus.Bacs.
and diploma-holders from
the musical colleges would
be interested. Just as it
isn’t necessary to do a five
years’ course in English
literature at a university to
sense the majesty of Mil-
ton or taste the magic of
Keats, neither is it neces-
sary to be able to analyse
a symphony before one
can bathe one’s soul in
Beethoven, Schubert or
Tschaikowsky. Indeed, in my experience,
the scholastic intellectual approach to a
purely emotional art such as music is
more likely to end in boredom and a sense
of futility than is the frankly Philistine
attitude of the good souls who say they
know what they like, and do like it.
* * * *
“Craiser”: The most popular picture
Arthur Streeton painted was the land-
scape in the Victorian National Gallery
which catalogists and commentators have
variously given the title of “The Purple
Noon’s Transparent Light,” “The Purple
Noon’s Transparent Might” and “The
Purple Moon’s Transparent Light.” There
have even been public controversies as to
which is the correct name, though the
title clearly derives from a line in Shel-
ley’s “Stanzas Written in Dejection Near
Naples”:
The sun is warm, the sky is clear,
The waves are dancing fast and bright,
Blue isles and snowy mountains wear
The purple noon’s transparent might.
An obituarist in Melbourne who
expatiated on the beauty of the picture
and how well it illustrated its title, but
called it “Purple Moon,” must have for-
gotten what the painting looked like,
* * * *
“Tiki”; Wellington (M.L.) reckons that
last year’s nasty earthquake wasn’t an
unmixed disaster. It has led to a re-
fashioning of the Town Hall, for so many
years the Australasian bete noire of cele-
brated musicians and their managers. The
stage was too small and too high, the
dressing-room accommodation was in-
adequate and inconveniently situated, and
concerts were disturbed by too-audible
sounds from other parts of the building,
This condition of affairs lasted decade
after decade and reform was despaired of,
when lo! along came an old man earth-
quake and cracked the Town Hall (and
most of the other old buildings in the
city) from basement to tower-top, leav-
ing it in such a condition that reconstruc-
tion was an imperative measure of public
safety. The job is now completed, and
Wellington music-lovers boast that in-
stead of being the worst their Town Hall
is now one of the best concert-halls south
of the Equator.
* * * *
“Oxmead”: It beats me why some
Scots—such as “R.M.” (B. 8 / 9/’43) —
should get so grouchy when the term
“England” is loosely used for “Britain,”
as happens every day somewhere or
other. If these precisians were strictly
logical they would attack some of their
own countrymen for what they consider
disrespectful in a Sassenach. Robert
Louis Stevenson, I suppose, was as Scot-
tish as they make them, yet he didn’t
“CLEVER-I couldn't do that."
trouble about splitting hairs in this con-
nection. In Epilogue to an Inland Voyage
you will find that he gave his name to
an interfering French commissary as
RobTt-Lou’s-Stev’ns’n “speaking,” he
adds, “with the swallowing vivacity of
the English.” He didn’t say “Scottish,”
yet nobody can doubt what he meant.
And how about Macaulay’s exiled
Jacobite who pined on Lavernia for
Scargill and by Arno for Tees and yet
asked any countryman whom chance
might lead to his grave to “shed one Eng-
lish tear o’er English dust”?
* „ L, * ,
Petermac ; They still cry You 11 be
sorry!’ to the recruit ,(B. 8/9/’43); in
fact, it was bawled at us by an earlier
bunch of rookies. Marmalade” has yan-
ished, but Wouldn’t it?” a Sixth Divvy
m circulation. Going
18 ne ,jy term . S oi yg
A - W -L > ™u H . S e * on 18 , tbe
gibe flung at too-conscientious or stripe-
hunting solchers. Every slouch-hatted
warnor in the Middle East was known
as George to the Wogs, and R.ghto,
George” displaced “Righto, Dig.” “Gone
troppo” is the Army description for that
curious mental inertia afflicting troops
after long periods at isolated battle
Stations.
* ♦ * *
“Bumpkin”; The Land Army girl was
driving a van packed with vegetables
along the mam street. The horse was
young and spirited, but quiet and well-
educated. Suddenly a column of in-
fantry, marching perfectly and headed by
a brass band and a colonel, swung out of
a side street. The horse began to rear
onH nlnnpe anrl nrstiFP s*ll nvpr tVip rAoil
ana piunge ana prance all over the roaa,
and the girl tried vainly to control it.
Finally she stuck her head round the
hood of the van and shouted to the
colonel: “Stop that band, you silly fool I
Cant you see the horse won’t Stand it?”
Instead of getting mad the colonel raised
his hand, the band stopped, the horse
put its four hoofs on the ground again,
and a broad grin swept the line of the
column. That colonel has the stuff great
pprmrak arf marlp of
generals aie ma “ e °L
„ r _ ,* T , , , * * .
K. : I think, though I’m not certain,
that I have seen eyes “flash in anger” ;
I wil! concede the possibility faint though
it be, that a man could prick up his
ears” ; a brawny hero might, I grudgingly
admit, “burst through a door,” just as
he might burst through overeating; I am
even prepared to grant that a man could
“utter a strangled cry,” assuming that
the strangler let up on his nefarious task
long enough to permit it. But I have
yet to hear a man “snort.” Men, regis-
tering annoyance, have “snorted” in the
last 127 novels I have read. They have
performed this feat under water and up-
side down, in all sorts of circumstances,
from deathbeds to pulpits. But none of
the authors has thought to give a detailed
description of the modus operandi of
snorting. Is it done with the nose or
mouth? With the teeth shut or trap
agape? Must it be learned, like riding
a bicycle or swimming, or does it come
natural to everyone, like scratching your-
self with crossed arms as soon as you
take your woollen singlet off? I crave
answers. The nearest to my own concep-
tion of a snort is the sound made by a
horse when he blows into his feed bag.
Heroes provided with feed bags to hang
around their necks while snorting might
fill the bill.
* * * *
“C.Q.”. Mr. and Mrs. Harry Rabinov,
of East St. Kilda, made up their minds
that their signaller son was dead when a
report came to hand some months ago
that his coat, with his papers and identity
disc in the pockets, had been found on a
Jap taken prisoner in New Guinea. The
other day, however, they received official
intimation that he was a p.o.w. in
Malaya.
* * * *
“Bo”: A celluloid dog chasing an
asbestos cat through hell; an Arbitration
Court Judge wrestling with a batch of
Dedman regulations ; liaison officer Jock
Garden trying to look conciliatory; an
actor battling a quid from a fellow-ham;
Artie Fadden delivering a speech which
he hopes will carry conviction; a queue-
shuffler carrying a four-gallon carboy to
the bottle department—-these feats of
optimism fade to nothing beside that of
tfi e president of the Victorian House-
wives’ Association. The lady urges the
adoption of an “honor system” for gas
rationing in her State. Past experience
c f fi, e effect of rationing on the female
m ind would suggest that a great many,
if asked voluntarily to ration themselves,
would immediately start boiling up in the
gas CO pp er the old man’s gardening pants,
die laundry curtains and every other un-
usual article they could rake up, just to
show Authority a thing or two.
THE TOBACCO CUT.
“The September tobacco quota has been cut to 70
per cent, of that available in June.”
Do you miss them, I wonder, O reader,
Such luxury items as these,
Cigars that were seasoned in cedar
That reached us from over the seas,
Flash fags with credentials about them
In Turkish or Arabic pinned?
Well, now you must manage without them.
They’re gone with the wind.
No more will it come, like the manna
From heaven in Israel’s dearth,
The weed that was grown at Havana,
The crop from Virginian earth.
Till the Japs have been outed, and Otto
And Fritz retribution have met,
It looks that we smokers have got to
Take what we can get.
You must fill up your pipe-bowl more
sparsely.
Nor growl if the mixture you’re sold
Seems nearer to spinach or parsley
Than the brands you ignited of old.
Grim Fate has its buffets and raspers
For all in some measure, I guess.
When even übiquitous gaspers
Grow mournfully less.
Our old pioneers, to be candid,
I’d say were less finicky folks.
Hard smokers, withal they demanded
Less fancy and frill in their smokes.
They’d all that they wanted, I’ll warrant,
When into their pockets they dug
For —what we might reckon abhorrent —
Some good old black plug.
But belts must be tightened in war-time,
And patriots well may prepare
For a scantier whack than aforetime
Of the stuff that they puff in the air.
So think you, then, scorning to dither.
Of the clouds we’ll be blowing anon
When the Nips and the Nazis go whither
The Eyeties have gone!
N.S.W.
T. THE R.
A MOMENTOUS ISSUE.
“The new Federal Cabinet will decide whether the
first Saturday in every month is to continue to be
raceless.”
Like gods upon Olympus high
They perch—or very shortly will,
For none can say with certainty
Who will the envied possies fill.
That rests with Caucus. All we know
Is that whate’er they say will go.
Great issues and momentous things
Will hang perforce upon their nods.
They’ll call the tunes and pull the strings
(Same as those ancient Hellene gods)
To which we humbler souls have got
To dance, contentedly or not.
All that we are or have or do
Will come beneath their sweeping gaze,
From means of raising revenue
They’ll pass to raceless Saturdays,
From ways of walloping the Jap
To what the Bungs should keep on tap.
* And will they, think you, lift the ban
On that too frequent day of woe
When many a sturdy racecourse fan
Is glumly wondering where to go.
Debarred his customary jaunts
To well-established equine haunts?
The day when stillness wraps the totes
And silence overtakes the book,
And on the latter’s pan one notes
A somewhat sour and injured look,
Such as a tiger might display
When cheated of his lawful prey.
D’you wonder will the veto go
Into the discard right away?
Well, only those who run the show,
The chaps who sit aloft, will say.
Their ruling may be Yes or No
In re a brighter Saturday.
But if I had to give a guess
I’d risk a bob or two on Yes.
N.S.W.
IFORD.


“Driver”: Army routine orders, con-
spicuously devoid of conscious humor as
they are, sometimes add to the gaiety of
the soldiery quite unwittingly. Such a
one was that in which troops were for-
bidden to throw stones at low-flying air-
craft. This was flanked by an encyclical
warning against fraternising with the
enemy (who was making love to us with
a mortar and heavy machine-guns). But
the Springboks, so I’m told, produced the
prize during their campaign in an Afri-
can country. Strict observance of the
color-line in the Union had left a hang-
over that caused friction with the African
potentate’s men. Hence an order read-
ing: “The practice of referring to the
ruler as ‘that black ’ must cease im-
mediately.”
* * * *
“Tuart”; Westralians have been kinder
to lady politicians than the people of any
other State. In 1921 they elected the
sex’s first M.L.A., Mrs. Cowan, in 1925
its first Labor M.L.A., Miss Holman, and
in 1943 its first Senator, Miss Tangney.
Mrs. Cowan had only one term, but Miss
Holman (at her election on April 3, 1925,
Australia’s only woman member) had rep-
resented Forrest for just on 14 years (an-
other record) and looked good for an-
other 14 years when her career was cut
short by an accident. I knew both “origi-
nals,” and they were interesting creatures.
Mrs. Cowan was a magistrate’s wife and
a capital speaker; by the irony of events
she unseated the man —Attorney-General,
afterwards Justice, Draper—who had in-
troduced the measure throwing the Legis-
lature open to women. Speaking on an
education bill, she made a plea for manual
training of schoolboys which I have
always considered as sensible a thing as 1
ever heard in Parliament. “Teach them
home carpentry, painting, plumbing, any-
thing in that line for which they show a
bent,” she said ; “even if they don’t go
further it will help them to become better
home-makers when they marry.” Miss
Holman married a young politician who,
though a charming fellow in some re
spects, couldn’t stand the raptures of poli-
tical life and was an impossible husband.
Divorcing him, she resumed her maiden
name and became her father’s assistant —-
he was secretary of the Timber Workers
and M.L.A. for Forrest. Assistant secre-
tary of the union for a time, she
succeeded dad as member, and a brothe,
succeeded her.
* * * ♦
“L. de R.”: South Australia may have
been the place of origin of the
“schooner”; but in my day it was a
N.S.W. suburb which gave it locale. The
long beer in those times was known as
a “Botany schooner.” It cost sixpence,
and probably looked larger than it ready
was.
♦ ■ * ♦ *
“Taniwha”: “Kiss me good-night,
sergeant-major” doesn’t sound quite so
funny to me as it once did. In Christ-
church, M.L., an R.S.M. was before the
Beak on a charge of furious driving. He
told the Bench he emulated Jehu to en-
able a private of his mob to catch a train
and avoid outstaying leave. The poor
blighter, he said, would otherwise have
got seven days’ C.B. The magistrate
cocked a quizzical eye at the R.S.M.
“Nice fatherly spirit,” he remarked, and
entered a conviction without penalty.
* * * *
“Zake”: I stared as I saw the illustrated
advert, of a Sydney firm, and my mind
instantly flew to andirons, antimacassars,
candle-snuffers, iron dogs and other use-
less relics of a past era. But there it was,
and the buyer would get only a few shil-
lings change out of a tenner for it —a
corrugated iron air-raid shelter. Ponder-
ing the rain-filled, neglected shelters and
caving-in slit trenches that are making
the Sydney home front so untidy, and
the general conviction that no Jap bombs
will fall on any Australian capital city in
this war, I wondered if any mug would
spar out good cash for such a thing.
Then I saw the explanation ; these huts
will “make ideal tool, wood or fowl
sheds.” Also, when you come to think
of it, they would make an ideal hideout
when the missus is roaring for her lord
to come and turn the wringer, or as a
repository—when the spacious days
come again—for surreptitious week-end
quarts.
* * * *
“Kir”: “Scarp” has been in use since
the scuttling of the Kaiser’s navy. The
word is really “Scapa,” an abbreviation
of “Scapa Flow,” which in turn is rhym-
ing slang for “go.” Thus “to Scapa” is
“to go.”
* * * *
“Chevroford”: A demonstration of
how the loss of one sense sharpens others
was provided recently in Melbourne. A
blind man was sitting in the back seat of
a car which his stepson was trying to
start. Suddenly the older man felt that
something was wrong and asked his step-
son why he was so long in starting. No
answer coming, he intuitively knew what
had happened, and getting out dragged
the unconscious man into the open. The
car was fitted with a gas producer and
both father and the stepson were breath-
ing carbon monoxide, which is odorless
and tasteless, at any rate to normal per-
ceptions. The victim recovered.
* * * *
John Brennan, from the Solomons:
The tropic moon still furnishes its excite-
ments. With the full of the moon the bombers
come again.
At Guadacanal the evenings are pleasant
and cool. The rara trees are in blossom, their
branches bare of leaves; with their clusters of
red blooms they’re scarcely distinguishable
from our lllawarra flame-trees. It is the season
of ara, the south-east winds. Towards evening
the traffic on the roads slackens and the dust
which daylong hangs like a haze and blows
over and into everything subsides. As the
moon nears the full the sky is cloudless.
When the raid warning sounds every eye is
turned towards the sky. There is nothing to
see but the long, sweeping beams of the search-
lights, thinly pale in the moonlight. Occa-
sionally there comes the low, droning sound of
a ’plane’s motors, very high and seemingly a
long way off. The searchlights waver to find
them, cross and break away again. There’s a
gleam of brighter light high up in one of the
beams and the others swing across to focus the
’plane. It moves out across the island; very
slow it seems and brightly illuminated. Sud-
denly the ack-ack fire begins to burst around
it, bright splashes of light above and below the
’plane. It moves out and out, and eventually
the lights leave it and swing back again, to
resume their search above the targets.
They focus another ’plane and another and
another. The ack-ack batteries drive them out
before they can make their run. Some drop
their sticks—a long way off; the crump of the
explosions comes hollowly from the distance.
Then there’s the sudden whistle of a bomb
“I'm your new mate, sir. Can I have a steward to get my gear aboard ?”
somewhere overhead and the watchers dive for
shelter. Another ’plane shows in the lights.
In the midst of the ack-ack bursts there’s a
spitting red trail of tracer bullets from a night-
fighter. It brings the watchers suddenly alive.
They shout encouragement and advice: “Go in
and get him, boy! ” “That’s the style! ” “Follow
him up! ” “Give him another! ” It’s reminiscent
of the Stadium bleachers.
Another short burst of tracers comes in
from the other side, and then shortly a vivid
splash from above as the fighter climbs again.
The raider drops suddenly in the lights and
then out of them, trailing a white tail of
smoke. They let it go down and swing back
again to look for others.
A little while and the All-Clear sounds. The
watchers go back to their seats on the coconut-
tree logs to watch the finish of the film which
the alarm had interrupted. It’s “Eagle Squad-
ron,” and it’s got some fine shots of aerial
battles and night raids.
* * * *
“ ’Longshore”: Lock’s battleship with
a figurehead (B. 11/8/’43) reminds of
how much art has been lost since the
steamship supplanted the windjammer.
I recall Fremantle jetty and wharves of
the late ’nineties, when sail was almost
breathing its last. Sailing ships were
there in plenty, mostly from the Baltic
with weather- and floorboards to build
Coolgardie and a score other now-van-
ished towns. Those ships all had figure-
heads, and few of them but were works
of art. Wood carving then was a pro-
fession, and those artists of the chisel
and gouge could bring more life out of
wood than even the sculptor with his
stone. Some of those carvings must have
cost scores of pounds —strange vanity that
hardheaded shipowners should have spent
good silver on what to modern eyes is a
superfluity! One specimen remains, the
figurehead of the old Samuel Plimsoll, to
be seen in the Perth Museum. Although
covered with numberless coats of paint
the effigy is still lifelike, still displaying
that nobility of countenance and serenity
of brow that characterised the Sailor’s
Friend. W.A. should have had another
famous figurehead to keep Plimsoll com-
pany. For in December, 1871, the Blue
Jacket’s figurehead was washed ashore on
Rottnest Island, having drifted from
near the Falkland Islands, off which that
famous clipper was abandoned on fire in
March, 1869.
* * * *
“Spokeshave”: The power of music?
Four Allied soldiers sat in the organ gal-
lery at the Melbourne Town Hall at a
recent symphony concert chewing gum.
The overture was mediocre, dnd it left
them unaffected. They chewed as indi-
vidualists. The concerto touched the
secret springs of feeling in one of the
quartet and he began to chew in time.
Before the symphony was finished the
whole four had that look of relaxation
on their faces which betokens complete
absorption, and all four jaws were mov-
ing in unison with the music. No con-
ductor has ever before been paid such a
convincing compliment in Melbourne
Town Hall.
* * * *
“Nakhoda”: If Hollywood finds the
life of Sir Ronald Ross, the man who
nailed down malaria as an insect-borne
disease, difficult to glamorise, it must be
more lacking in imagination than I sup-
posed. His fight with official orthodoxy
in India was as full of drama and fan-
tastic humor as Pasteur’s fight with the
French medical profession or Sister
Kenny’s battle with officialdom in Aus-
tralia. Official medicine in India regarded
Ross with disfavor, and when the inves-
tigator was on the verge of coming to
a conclusion transferred him to a district
where there were no anopheles mos-
quitoes. When Ross finally announced
his findings he had the mortification of
learning that two Italian investigators who
had profited by his progress reports in
medical journals were credited with the
discovery. Ross was a fierce, explosive,
aggressive individual who solaced himself
by writing poems and plays. Also he
had a tempestuous love affair. What
more could a perdoocer want?
* * *
“F. 8.”: A linguistic distinction which
has been reintroduced to Australia by
our Allies is the usage of “next.” In our
parlance “next Friday” used to mean
Friday coming and “Friday next” meant
the Friday after next Friday. Now, in
Melbourne’s patois at least, “Friday next”
has become synonymous with “next
Friday.” Until the change in usage was
pointed out many hostesses had parties
spoiled through their guests mistaking
the date.
* * * *
“Avon” remembers:
News that the N. S. Wales school examination
system is to be loosened up and common-
sensed a bit set me rummaging among my
ghosts till I came upon the stalwart bearded
figure of Inspector Anderson, a Scot of inde-
pendent mind and invincible joviality who used
to examine schools in a southern Maoriland
province when I was a boy. Most teachers
in that day and generation bore towards
children a cold and deadly hatred. Anderson
loved ’em. Most teachers believed that most
children were not only ineradicably bad but
incurably stupid. Anderson (like The .Bulle-
tin’s Archibald in another sphere) reckoned
that every child was interested in some subject
and had learned something communicable
about it. Anderson, to an extent not dreamed
of by his colleagues, supplemented written
papers with informal viva voce quizzes. By
what magic he did it I can’t guess even now,
but he had an impish way of drawing out the
youngsters least esteemed by their pastors and
masters and demonstrating before teacher and
class their intellectual superiority to the kids in
the top places. And the scallywags who ex-
panded for a moment under Anderson's smile
and showed some spunk and sense did pretty
well for themselves in after life, as 1 remember,
whereas teachers’ pets all seem to have sunk
without a trace. Old Anderson won my
gratitude for giving me a pass in history, in face
of what must have been one of the most de-
plorable written papers he had ever set eyes on,
because in viva voce I could explain the signifi-
cance of the crosses in the Union Jack and
their proper positions. He’s been dead this
forty years, but he humanised education for
thousands and his work and his memory live
after him.
* * * *
“Gunner G.”: I think there’s a lot to
be said for the Arab method of introduc-
ing matrimony. I’ve watched the process
in Palestine. On an appointed day of the
year the eligible girls of the village are
assembled prepared to meet their future
lords. Young Arabs come from all
around, bringing with them gold, knives,
swords, carpets and possibly sheep or
goats. The girls are lined up, the prettiest
in the front rank, the not so pretty in
the next and the ugly girls at the back.
Proceedings are conducted by the Mugtah
(village headman) and go thus: The
more wealthy Arabs pay highly for the
prettiest girls, the next in beauty are paid
for not so highly, and the ugliest girls
fetch the lowest prices, whether the pay-
ment be in gold, goods or livestock. Then
all the prices are pooled, a handsome
dowry is given with the ugliest of the
girls, a smaller dowry with the not so
ugly and very little with the most glamor-
ous.
* * * *
“Strict Veg.”: Melbourne has been
having a flurry of public debates lately.
Latest was a debate between an Assembly
candidate, and the vice-president of the
Liquor Trade Employees’ Union in Box
Hill Town Hall, with the Mayor as chair-
man, on the proposition “That the Liquor
Trade is a Menace to the Australian
Way of Life.” The disputants didn’t even
attempt to define what they severally
meant by “the Australian Way of Life.”
But the holder-up of the dry end made
an allegation that calls for investigation.
He said that when men were “dying”
for ammunition up north and a ship
arrived carrying beer the Diggers threw
it into the sea. The yarn was received
with derisive laughter—and so, as it
were, were the narrator’s claims at the
election.
* * * *
“Kenwood” on a matter of afforesta-
tion :
So “Pat Ater” wants “glorious red-gums”
planted in Sydney’s Macquarie-street, Melaleucas
in Bridge-street and cedar wattles in Bent-street
(B. 1 /9/’43). I live beside a bushland reserve
of 800 acres, typical sandstone country, and
the best red-gums are well down the gully
sides, where shade, shelter, moisture and leaf-
mould are at the maximum. Those on top of
the arid, wind-swept, eroded hilltops are not so
glorious. In the bush trees get all the benefit
of such rain as falls, but in a street, where the
only moisture, leaf-mould and soil aeration
available to trees must enter by an opening
two feet in diameter, how can Macquarie-street
gums be anything but pathetic? Especially
in view of the municipal passion for lopping.
Sydney Botanic Gardens have no really good
specimen of red-gum. Regarding Melaleucas,
two species are worth considering, Styphelioides
and Leucadendron, the latter growing in Hyde
Park, still in the young stages, when they look
their best. As to cedar wattles, nowhere in the
Botanic Gardens or Hyde Park is there a pass-
able specimen of this or any other wattle. The
Saligna in Hyde Park are obviously not suit-
able for street planting. By all means let
Sydney attempt the establishment of a noble
avenue of glorious trees, but let the Botanic
Gardens people have a fly at it first.
* * * *
“X.S.”: An even more remarkable case
than the Queensland one of a sense of
injustice turning into an obsession (B.
1 / 9/’43) is that of a Melbourne man who
a decade or more ago started to build a
house of blocks made by filling kero-
sene-tins with concrete. The local coun-
cil held that its building regulations were
being flouted, and brought an injunction
against the innovator. He retaliated with
a writ, and one writ begat another, and
one Court referred him to a higher and
that to a higher until an indignant Judge
remarked that the appellant had been the
author or the inspirer of over 400 legal
processes. A fresh stream of proceed-
ings resulted when the same litigious
gentleman staked out a claim in the
middle of a Melbourne thoroughfare
under mining law. When that enterprise
was exhausted of its possibilities he be-
came involved in another series of law-
suits concerned with bus services over
allegedly forbidden routes. His long war
with Authority had given him an acquaint-
ance with -the law which seemed to some-
what overawe magistrates.
* * * *
“Strict Veg.”: I was revolted to read
that when the Federal Government was
faced with the problem of providing
nourishment for Mrs. Roosevelt it served
up a conventional American repast
which necessitated a nation-wide search
for cranberries to make sauce. Now, I
suppose, if Mrs. Curtin visits Washing-
ton, the President will feel obliged to
entertain her with damper, washed down
with billy tea.


ABORIGINALITIES
“C.E.”: “I’ll have to leave you to
carry on for a bit, Jim,” said the V.D.C.
district leader, “Try to work some en-
thusiasm into the stunt, will you? Make
it look like a dinkum attack.” “Righto.”
The n.c.o. took over. “Members of the
attacking party line up on the right,” he
bawled. “Defenders get ready to take
position.” They had about sorted them-
selves out when a swarm of travelling
bees settled among the nags hitched on
a barb fence. A bay reared with a
squeal, others joined in and, dropping
their equipment, the V.D.C. charged to
the rescue. The excitement spread, and
presently Steve’s mare, lashing right and
left, caught Buck in the middle and Mac
on the head, while Jim, threaded intri-
cately on the barb, roared SOS blas-
phemies to an accompaniment of
“Whoas.” Dad Wilson took charge.
Armed with a branch of prickly box and
with blood dripping from a busted nose
and both eyes bunged up, he swiped bees
and nags indiscriminately. He was
stopped by a flying stirrup just as Dan,
diving in to salvage Johnny, was sand-
wiched and went down with a grunt.
Eventually the swarm passed on, the
hacks were quietened and the blokes
dragged themselves back to the parade
ground as the D.L. returned. He looked
at Buck and Mac, still out to it, took in
the torn and groaning mob and turned
to the bloodstained scarecrow draped on
a tree. “Good gosh, Jim,” he gasped ;
“honest, I ... 1 didn’t mean y’ to make it
that dinkum.”
* * * *
“J.J.McD.”: Today 1 watched the
young magpie make his usual awkward,
uncertain flight from the tall gum-tree
where he was hatched to my camp 70
yards away. This time, however, no
proud father came to thrust bits of bread
down the ravenous youngster’s throat, so,
having squawked himself hoarse in vain
protest, the young ’un took to the air
again, and, in apparent disgust, made for
home. The whirlwind caught him half-
way. A swirling cloud of red dust, it
came hurtling over the bare earth. De-
spite frantic efforts to escape Maggie was
lifted, a turning, twisting, tumbling ball
of feathers, to a height of 50 feet before,
breathless and bedraggled, he was hurled
from the vortex into calmer atmosphere.
There he fluttered uncertainly till he spied
the familiar outlines of the gum where
reigned sapity in a world gone mad. For
it he sped, and made a crash landing on
a dry limb. Long after the whirlwind
had gone Maggie, silent and shaken, still
refused to be cajoled or coerced into
leaving his perch.
* * *
“Bad Australian”: If I hadn’t seen a
pair of nippers trying to capture a
strayed cockatoo that had taken up a
strategic position on a telephone wire I
too might have doubted that yarn about
“Paroo” Walters and the galahs (B.
1/9/’43). As the bird appeared to have
no difficulty in keeping an upright posi-
tion on such a slender foothold, it
appears to me that he depended on bal-
ance as well as grip in maintaining the
perpendicular. If a cockatoo can roost
comfortably on a telephone wire, what is
to prevent a galah doing the same thing?
Ht * * *
“Betcha”: Slick work that of estimat-
ing beef in N.Q. (B. 18/8/’43); almost
as tough, in fact, as the problems
of the unsung sheep cocky. When that
bloke wants to save or buy the correct-
sized flock for the coming year he con-
“A rumor's got around that Mrs. Roosevelt's comin' 'ere, so everybody's
booked in at the 'orspital!"
siders his area, its normal carrying
capacity, allows for the increase in rab-
bits, the added acres of caterpillars, the
probability of ’hoppers, the labor and
material shortage, the prevalence of
disease and the level of the waterholes.
Then he takes stock of the weather, notes
the seasons for several years back and
decides on the chahces of rain. With
that worked out, he spends months
studying the market and shouting for the
cove at the transport depot so that he can
sell at the right moment. And if the
poor cow slips up anywhere in his cal-
culations the Government doesn’t get its
desired quota of splashing silver.
* * * *
“Sou’-west”: South-west W.A. has a
thistle of its own, a giant named by the
early botanists the sow thistle. About the
most appreciated of all fodder, both by
domesticated animals and fowls, it sel-
dom attains to giant size. The oddest
thing about this plant is the creamy milk
that appears when a stalk or stem is
broken. Have often wondered if this
milk is a true latex suitable for churn-
ing into rubber. If it is then there is little
need for searching the world for a sub-
stitute for the Malayan rubber-tree.
* * * *
“8.4.”: In the rough, rocky tin country
behind Ingham (Q.) I have seen pack-
mules and teams working along tracks
which foundered the best of mountain-
bred mokes. The horse is too prone to
panic and dash about in difficulties. In
contrast the mule steps and hops round
fully loaded with the nonchalance of a
coon in a henhouse. The lop-eared cross
revels in rough going, especially if there
is a floundering moke handy to jeer at.
Loading completed, a few sophisticated
misfits contemplating a sit-down strike
stepping round gingerly on tiptoe and
testing their loads is a sight for the gods.
Again, their rubber hides neither gall nor
chafe, nor is it necessary to retread the
wonderfully durable hooves Nature pro-
vides. The lop-ears not merely existed
but thrived and toiled on a diet of wire
grass and tussocks that would impact a
moke and make him clamor for diuretics.
* * *• *
“WX5918”: “Smells are surer than
sounds or sights”—Kipling was right.
Slitting open a letter from Westralia I re-
leased a whiff of sweet scent and found
that a sprig of boronia had been en-
closed. Yet, strangely enough, my
thoughts flew not to the bushland on the
Blackwood River where boronia cloys
the air during the spring months, but to
Old Cairo. I remembered being on leave
in that city and being taken by a guide
tout to a squalid bazaar, where I found
the “salon” of a native perfumer who, if
the many testimonials that hung on the
walls and purported to have come from
Hollywood stars and titled European
ladies were true, had won for him-
self an international reputation for the
creation of rare and costly perfumes by
way of contrast to the foul odors that his
compatriots inflicted on the surrounding
air. Sipping bitter black Turkish coffee
from a tiny cup provided for the pro-
spective buyer, I listened to Abdul extol-
ling his wares and his late-lamented
father, from whom he had acquired his
trade. From his chatter I gathered that
some Australian nursing sisters had
honored him with a visit. “Aussie
soldier ladies, she’s come to Abdul. Ab-
dul, he’s tell him [getting his genders a
little mixed] ‘you tell for Abdul you ver’
. . _ , , , „ ,
nice Aussie flower, he s show for you the
scent.’ She’s say‘boor-oon-ya.” Kwiess!
I show for him boor-oon-ya.” With
which he selected from numerous of its
kind a small phial labelled with Arabic
characters. “Smell for you,” he said, un-
corking it. “Boor-oon-ya?” It was the
haunting fragrance of boronia right
enough, but by what wizardry he had
synthetised the sweet breath of an Aus-
tralian bush flower which will not grow in
Egypt was Abdul’s secret—and his
father’s before him.
* * * *
“Cubberlie”: We live a mile and a
half from the sea at the nearest point,
and whichever way you come it is steep
and rough. Nevertheless, a young seal
was found in our shed one morning. It
was about three feet long, cream head
and breast, mole-colored back. It hung
about the place for a couple of days,
when we decided to drive it back to the
sea. In this part of the world—Kangaroo
Island—it is unheard of for a seal to
wander so far.
* * * *
“Old-timer”: I’ve met a few snakes
in various parts of this continent, but
only once did I have one dispute the
right of way, and only once have I seen
a man bitten. I’ve met two others
who had been bitten, though the second
of these was never sure what it was that
bit his little finger in the hollow log ; but
his brother, taking no risks, promptly
chopped the suspected digit off at the
second joint. My worst moment arrived
when, having unyoked the team, rigged
the tent and made ready for bed,
1 went outside in my stockinged feet, put
my foot on a halter rope my mate had
left lying in front of the tent, bent down
to pick it up, cursing the carelessness of
some people, and felt the thing flow from
under my foot. I was forced to stand
there immovable till a couple of cen-
turies passed and my mate brought a
iantern. Another time, dozing on the
broad of my back on a verandah floor, I
awoke to see a large brown snake look-
ing at me speculatively from about two
feet away. I still consider the way I came
upright and jumped back simultaneously
as an acrobatic feat without parallel.
* * * *
“Curra-warra”: The Soil Erosion Com-
mittee, having taken volumes of evidence,
was weary of the monotony with which
witnesses testified that erosion was a
national menace. Members sat up startled
when a belated witness averred that
erosion was a desirable feature of what
he described as “bull-infested” country.
Asked for an explanation of his strange
theory, the landowner told how, on cross-
ing a paddock, he had accidentally dis-
turbed a bull browsing behind some
scrub. A mad race for life ensued in-
stantly, the landowner just leaping into
a deep, narrow gutter that had been cut
by erosion through the soft soil as a
pair of lowered horns ripped upwards
through the slack of the rear of his pants.
* * * *
“Wang”: “I’m down on me luck prop-
erly,” related Dan. “Stone motherless
broke, empty tuckerbag an’ me boots
worn through t’ the uppers. I’m trudgin’
along, cursin’ everythin’, when I come
on a small hut a few yards off the road.
Loud snorin’ sounds are cornin’ from it.
I investergate an’ find inside a bloke lyin’
on his back, dead to the world, with an
empty whisky bottle beside him. The first
thing that takes me eye is his boots,
strong, hefty crabs, nearly new. In two
ticks I’m down on me marrers unlacin’
them. He never moves. I take me worn-
out pair off an’ put his on me trotters.
They fit fine. Then I has a good screw at
his pants, but decide agen takin’ them;
they’re pretty frowsy-lookin’ things, not
much better than me own. But his pants
pockets yield about five bob. Me luck’s
changed all of a sudden. About a mile
on I strike a farm, an’ me luck still holds
good—the cocky rushes me with a job.
That evenin’ at tea the conversation is
concerned about Uncje Joe, wonderin’
where he is. Presently the kitchen door
opens an’ a sozzled bloke staggers in.
Uncle Joe! Mumblin’ to himself, he squats
down at the table an’ starts messin’ about
with his pants, an’ presently
brings to light banknotes, one
after the other, an’ starts count-
in’ ’em. He’s got over a hun-
dred quid on the table be the
time he’s finished dredgin’ ’em
out. The fam’ly starts rousin’
on him fer carry in’ all that
money about with him, but he
on’y laughs an’ ses somethin’
’bout his secret pocket. 1 get
up then an’ ses good-night, I’m
off to bed. As I turn 1 hear the
missus say somethin’ ’bout me
bein’ disgusted. Too right I was
—with meself. Uncle Joe was
the bloke I’d pinched the boots
from but decided agen takin’
his pants.”
! * * *
“Sliprail”: The new hand had gone
into the township with the boss. Around
midday t h e boss came out of the store
and slipped the f ee d-bag over Nell’s
head As the mare sno rted into the bag
the n h registered alarm. “She’ll smother
with her nos trils covered like that, won’t
she? ” he asked xhe boss looked at the
nose bag swinging. “Ah, she’s all right;
she won ’ t suffocate,” he reassured him.
“y’ see, horses breathe through their ears
wb ii e they’re eatin’ out of the bag. You
wa tch her air-pumps waggle.” Sure
enough Nell’s ears did twitch at that
moment. “It’s a funny thing,” said the
new hand, “I’ve noticed a horse wont
take any notice of y’ if you talk to him
while he’s feed in’. I s’pose, as he’s usin’
his ears to breathe with, they don’t work
for bearin’ at the same time, eh?”
* * * *
“Kumara”: There’s been talk lately
about our Allies sending some or
their Hedonists and filmateers among us
to get some Australasian local color. 1
know of a part of M.L. where they d get
a plateful—in Westland, which, like
regions across the Tasman, is enduring a
record hard winter. The outstanding
features of the Westland landscape are
that it is nearly all standing almost verti-
cal and that every square inch that isn t
occupied by footpaths and houses has
something—grass, ferns or trees growing
on it. When I was there it seemed to be
almost entirely inhabited by miners, but
now many of the denizens have adde
trapping to their subterranean duties an
pursue the deer, mountain rats and pos-
sums that make their lairs in the mg
alps. There has been so much snow
around lately, even down by the sea, t a
the trappers wear snowshoes made o
of supplejack. Latest reports are
the long cold winter has been too m
for the deer, which are dying on a
great rate—amid cheers, for the impo
deer is as much a nuisance as t e
ported rabbits and spairows.
SCOTT OF THE QUEENSLAND
MOUNTED.
As straight as a mountain sapling, and resolute,
tall and brown,
Was Scott of the Queensland Mounted, the
sergeant of Sunrise town;
And never a horse-thief flitted like a will-o’-the-
wisp at night
But Scott of the Queensland Mounted rode fast
on the track of his flight.
The stars in the midnight glistened and a frost-
wind gathered force
When Sunrise woke from its slumber to the
beat of a black boy’s horse.
“Come quick to the Pass!” was the message;
“come to the Pass tonight,
For robbers are down on our horses and we
haven’t the arms to fight.
“Outlaws among our horses —we rode on
them unawares;
At sunset out in the Pocket they had drafted
our colts and mares.”
Old Cameron wrote the message: “I ordered
the four from the run,
But they drove us out of the Pocket at the point
of a loaded gun.”
Two troopers away from the township, both on
their long patrols—
And Cameron out at the Pocket would die for
his mares and foals!
So down through the drifts of timber and over
the tracts of stone
Rode Scott of the Queensland Mounted to
handle the job alone. .
There’s a pass from the Emu Pocket that crosses
the high divide,
But its slimy rocks in the darkness are a death-
trap for those who ride.
When the sky to the eastward lightened and the
hoofbeats came through the grass,
Jack Scott of the Queensland Mounted was
guarding the rocky pass.
“Halt in the name” the answer broke in on
his sharp command;
And the bullets sang past his helmet and splin-
tered the rock to sand,
And the echoes rang to the ranges; but who in
the world could tame
The blood of a Queensland trooper when the
rifles spat 4vith flame?
Calmly with pistols smoking he walked through
the hail of lead
And then, with the outlaws wounded and three
of their horses dead,
He wiped the blood from his forehead with a
tuft of the tall dead grass,
And Scott of the Queensland Mounted was king
of the Emu pass.
Old Cameron saddled a stockhorse that could
run like a swift in flight,
And a black boy rode to the township with the
news of the trooper’s fight;
And the people thronged on the roadway and
cheered to the echo then
As Scott of the Queensland Mounted rode in
with his captured men.
QUEENSLAND.
LEX McLENNAN.


SPARROW PARLIAMENT.
No matter what the weather
In a cloud they descend
Into one tree,
Hosts of them together,
Socially to spend
Their last hour of day
As best they may,
In an orgy of noise,
Happy and free:
Hundreds of voices keen and shrill,
One with another vying,
Not one ever still,
Chirping, chattering, crying
Incessantly,
Merged in one voice.
What does it all mean?
Promiscuous woolflgs?
Quarrels one-sided?
Or brag of the day’s doings,
Where each one has been,
The tale of his fun, ,
And all he has done?
“Listen to me, this is what I did!”
“This is what I did, listen to me I”
With all this empty chatter
And so much time spent
On such a trivial matter
In such a peevish tone.
The sparrows’ Parliament
Is very like our own.
MAORILAND, ARNOLD WALL.
* * * *
“Zake”: If the climate of this continent
ever changes to the extent that we ap-
proximate the conditions now obtaining
in, say, Russia, I’ll gamble on the adapt-
ability of the Aussies, despite generations
of being used to temperatures that soar
to 120deg. in parts. Our airmen in
Canada and Iceland don’t seem to be any
more inconvenienced by the cold than
Canadians and Englishmen who have
been used to real winters. I’ve seen Dig-
gers slogging around in Flanders mud
with an icy wind howling, working in
rolled-up shirtsleeves, while chooms
near by were shivering in greatcoats. And
some of them came from N.Q., too. Was
once down at Kiandra (N.S.W.), which
I nominate as Australia’s most consist-
ently bleak spot. It was freezingly cold.
An elderly, whiskered inhabitant was sit-
ting on a tree stump outside his place
reading a paper. In outer top garments
an open vest was his only concession to
the weather. I asked him didn’t he feel
the cold. “Cold!” he said in astonish-
ment. “Strike me, if this heat keeps up
a white man won’t be able to live in the
blanky place!”
“E.P.A.”; “Bulloo” Jack left his kan-
garoo-shooting long enough to report for
medical examination when required to do
so. Under the stimulus of a few rums
he burned to become a soldier and chase
Japs. Some hours later we found him
greatly disheartened. “They reckon me
eyesight’s onkus,” he growled, “and they
never even tested it. Soon’s I got there
they asked me to read the writing on a
card, and when I said I couldn’t they
hoisted me out. It ain’t a fair go downin’
a bloke just because he never went to
school.”
* * * *
“L.C.”: They didn’t evolve the cattle-
dog as easily as “B.4” thinks (B. 1 / 9 / ’4.3).
In the beginning the English bobtail was
crossed with the dingo and resultant pro-
geny were too savage to be trusted with
cattle. Then one Hall, of Muswellbrook
(N.S.W.), imported blue smooth-haired
Highland collies or merles — sometimes
called Welsh heelers. Mated with the
dingo, these produced the silent strain.
Later some of the cattle-dogs ran with
the Dalmatians which had been intro-
duced into the colonies by the “land
gentry.” That’s where the white- or light-
colored blaze in their foreheads comes
from.
He 5jc sfc *
“Wippegong”: Those long used to
craning their necks to watch the birds
go over could be excused for thinking
that if you flew, too, you’d see ’em better ;
but no! Birds, much like men, stay fairly
close to where the tucker is, and you’re
lucky if you can spot any of the really
high fliers on the move. From 5000ft. —
a common height for training exercises
—spoonbills sailing over a billabong
might be egrets or ibises ; while over the
sea a flock of petrels is a flicker of white
dots—if you come lower you might catch
a gleam of white as an albatross banks
sharply away. Once at 3000ft. the pilot
flung the aircraft aside to dodge a whist-
ling eagle ; but of the wheeling pelicans
and wedgetails and the wedges of ibis
we used to watch into the blue—no. But
on low-level exercises, where you skim
the paddocks, scare the sheep and scatter
the chooks, it’s another story. Parrots dive
into trees, and Kelly slips in with them ;
galahs excel themselves in aerobatics and
are still at it long after you’ve passed ;
the little ripples on a dam are chopped
up as the ducks take off ; and a cluster of
black spots on the grass suddenly doubles
in size and becomes an agitated pattern in
black and white —white-winged choughs.
But, true to form, the maggies are the
outstanding individuals. There may be a
score or more busy fossicking as the
’plane bears down, but each bird sepa-
rately takes violent evasive action close
to ground—dodging, doubling, feinting,
sparring all the way; and I’ll wager a
wad that within a minute each bird is
on a post telling the world in ringing
voice that he’s got the intruder’s measure,
and if the damn’ thing comes back he'll
clean it up.
% % %
“Mat’s Mate”; “Curra-warra” (B.
8/ 9/ ’43), who did his cash on a horse
carrying my pen-name, was a bit late.
The first time I heard of the nag he
was in a Melbourne hurdle race and I
took the tip. He did the trick at 20 to 1.
“Last trip he got lost”
“Aratta”: Dad, sitting in front of the
kitchen fire, looked up as Dave and
Mary, arrayed in their Sunday best, en-
tered the room. “Coin’ out?” queried
Dad. “No,” replied Dave, looking very
self-conscious, “There’s a s’prise party
cornin’ here t’night,” young Bill explained.
“Stiffen the spags!” Dad roared. “A
s’prise party, eh? A man can’t have no
peace in his own home.” He continued
to storm for five minutes, then stopped
suddenly and, calling young Bill,
walked outside. A few minutes later
he was back, and seated himself, all
signs of anger vanished. A little later
the visitors noisily arrived, and were wel-
comed heartily by the family, Dad’s
greeting being heartiest of the lot. A start
had been made to clear out a couple of
the rooms for dancing when the telephone
rang. Young Bill answered it. “Con-
stable McCarthy wants y’ on the
’phone, Dad,” he cried. Dad, growling
into his whiskers, walked outside to
answer the call. Presently he came back
and remarked savagely “The blasted
copper would pick this night, er course.
He’s goin’ t’ make a raid, lookin’ fer
possum skins, an’ as I’m a J.P. he wants
me t’ go along with him. I dunno whose
place he’s goin’ to first —he wouldn’t say.
I s’pose I’d better go an’ get ready. Ex-
cuse me, you people.” Ten minutes later
he came back into the kitchen to find
that every member of the surprise party
“ It's O.K. , fellers — I just want to get a light!”
had left. “Mister McCarthy’s a long time
cornin’,” remarked Mum. Dad winked
at young Bill. Dave caught him at it,
and burst out angrily “I see now why
y’ wus so affable so sudden ; the whole
thing wus a fake!” “Y’re welcome t’
y’r opinion,” replied Dad, grinning,
“but I’ll bet them possum skins wasn’t!”
* * * *
“Horseless Horseman”: Another novel
way to get rid of ants temporarily (B.
18/ 8/’43) was that practised by our
babbler while droving down the Darling.
On the first night camp out from Bourke
he produced a blowlamp, and when he
quietly began scorching thousands of
mandibles in every direction out from the
wagonette, we all thought he was on the
Bourke liquor again. But next morning
we found that in half an hour the flame-
thrower had killed enough ants to occupy
the attention of the reinforcements all
night. He put on this act for 46 days,
all the desolate 220 miles to Wilcannia,
which I vote the worst ant country in
Australia. Although on previous trips
we had experienced the crawlers so bad
about Nelyambo that the sheep in the
brake as well as ourselves couldn’t rest,
that trip was quite pest-free.
* * *
“Eureka”: Two of the queerest coves
I met in the bush had the lightning com-
plex, but diversely. One held the view
that lightning was sent to “recharge” the
human body. When there was a thunder-
storm this old chap stripped off his clothes
and walked up and down an ironstone
ridge near his hut while the lightning
played about him. He always swore he
enjoyed renewed energy after one of these
“treatments.” The other, a swaggie, was
so terrified of it that he always carried
a roll of copper wire in his drum ; when
the lightning started he fastened this
about his body, one end sticking up over
his hat and the other trailing along the
ground. He attributed his immunity
from shocks to this “conductor.”
* * * *
“Solitude”: We were 20 miles from
home in a belt of the roughest country
a cove could ever hope to muster. With
eyes peeled for footholds and our nags
travelling mostly on their haunches, we
made the bottom of the gorge and slipped
off for a spell. Selecting a place I tethered
my hack. “A nag oughtn’t t’ be hitched
on a hard trip,” scowled Seventyfiver as
he dropped his reins. “He needs t’ move
round a bit.” “All right for an old
camper,” I replied, “but my bloke isn’t.”
We clambered down to the creek, drank
and unrolled the tucker. Half an hour
later Seventyfiver returned to the sub-
ject of horses. “Y’ want t’ start trainin’
that moke o’ yours not t’ stray,” he
advised. I leaned back luxuriously on a
rocky outcrop and gazed at the granite-
studded slopes above. A couple of wedge-
tails circled in the sun at the head of the
gorge, and the old bloke’s voice, blending
dreamily with the creek, soon became in-
distinguishable. “Yair,” he was saying
later as I rolled over to collect the para-
phernalia for a fresh start, “it’s surprisin’
what a pick round’ll do to a tired animal,
an’ a bloke feels kind o’ mean ridin’
one that’s been tied” Suddenly he
stopped. “Good gosh!” he gasped in
dawning horror. Turning, he stared
vainly in every direction. His nag had
gone.
$ * * *
“Eureka”: It certainly was not a taran-
tula that the land girl saw clinging to the
wall (B. 25/8/’43). It was a huntsman’s
spider, more commonly called a wanti-
gong or triantelope in the bush. It is
harmless and useful about a house where
flies and mosquitoes are troublesome.
* * * *
“Narrin”: An Adelaide bank clerk, he
boarded himself and his car at the old
Renpeowie pub for the duration of his
holidays. He had a rifle, too: a .22
high-power, and we heard quite a lot
about its miraculous pace, its quarter-
mile flat trajectory, its true-to-a-hair tele-
scopic sights and its hitting power. And
all he said seemed true. Every day he
brought in ’roos and foxes, all neatly
bored through head or chest, and he
acquired a reputation quite different from
that most city blokes get when in the
bush. And then into town on Friday
night, aboard his old hack, came Alec
Thompson, our local ’roo-shooter. We
introduced him to the bank bloke and
his rifle, pointing out the qualifications
of the combination; but Alec wasn't
impressed. “Listen, mister,” he drawled,
“I’ll shoot three shots against y’ at a
hundred. Loser t’ buy the drinks.” The
city bloke was game, and when he saw
old Alec’s .32, barrel and breech inno-
cent of blue, covered with red dust, the
magazine-cover cracked, he grinned. We
stepped off the hundred yards and Alec
tacked up the circular end of a 11b. jam-
tin against a post. The city bloke shot
first, putting one bullet within the tin
and two just outside. Then Alec
squatted down, squinted along his dusty
sights and put three bullets nicely
grouped close to the centre of the lid.
“Yair,” he explained ten minutes later,
wiping the foam off his moustache, “I
knew them high-powers can’t throw any-
where near as straight as me old rifle
with black-powder cartridges. And,
anyway, you was usin’ shop-loaded
shells.”
He * * *
“D.A.”: That mistletoe increase that
has “Sailor Bill” nonplussed (B. 1/9/’43)
may be due to birds. Following a good
season the birthrate of the feathered
population shows a decided increase and
the sticky seeds of the parasite get wider
distribution than ever. Droughts are a
better control than native fauna.
* :f * *
“Dixit”: It was a pitch-black night as
Tom Morris, lantern in hand, went off
through the scrub to visit his traps with
Brownie, the big brown-and-white cattle-
dog, trotting at the outer circle of flicker-
ing light. Tom had a good catch that
night —mostly full-grown bucks. He had
released a dozen or so from the traps
when one sturdy fellow nearly wrenched
himself free. Tom grabbed at him and
over went the lantern, quickly smother-
ing the flame. Then with a curse he found
he had no matches on him. There was
only one thing for it; checking up on his
bearings as best he could, he and the dog
set off for the hut a couple of miles to
the east. The going was slow, and it
wasn’t till about an hour of stumbling
and crawling that Tom realised he was
bushed. Then a Wain-wave struck him ;
he would send Brownie off and follow
him, and see whether the dog could find
home. A word, to Brownie, and off they
went, the dog’s white flank being Tom’s
only guide. After nearly another hour
Tom called a halt. It was no use letting
the dog go any further, for he was prob-
ably bushed too. Tom sat down to await
the dawn. As the first streaks showed, he
yawned and dug Brownie playfully in the
ribs. “Well, old chap,” he said, “I’m afraid
you were no better than 1 was. Now
let us see” Then he looked around
and broke off. Barely 50 yards away
was his hut.
* * * *
“Bohemian”: When Elliott, V.C. re-
turned to his native town of Pahiatua, in
Maoriland’s north island, the townspeople
gave him a rattling reception, and the local
paper went off the deep end by printing
that day’s issue in gold, claimed by the
proprietor to be the first time in history
that a newspaper had been so printed. The
whole issue was quickly grabbed up. A
Scot bought up all the copies he could
lay hands on. A few days afterwards a
shaggy Caledonian head shoved itself
inside the editor’s door and a dour voice
•said “Ye’re a muckle fraud, Meester
Papermon. Ah burnt doon a the papers
for the goold, an’ it was naethin’ but
brass!”


Australian, Mercantile, Land & Finance
Company, Limited
(INCORPORATED IN ENGLAND IN 1863)
WOOL, FAT STOCK, STORE AND STUD STOCK,
PRODUCE AND PROPERTY SALESMEN
General Manager for Australia: R. SINCLAIR SMITH.
ADVANCES MADE ON GRAZING PROPERTIES, ON STOCK, AND ON
CONSIGNMENTS OF WOOL, SKINS, HIDES, TALLOW, ETC.
LICENSED AUCTIONEERS, STOCK AND STATION AGENTS.
SYDNEY OFFICE: A. M. MURDOCH, Manager.
ALSO AT MELBOURNE, BRISBANE, NEWCASTLE. WAGGA, HENTY, HAY, MOREE,
TOWNSVILLE, CHARLEVILLE, BUENOS AIRES, LONDON.
GENERAL AGENTS IN NEW SOUTH WALES FOR NORTHERN ASSURANCE CO.. LTD
RONALDSON'TIPPETT
Buy War Loan Bonds ,
Savings Certificates and
Stamps! Every penny counts!
TO the conquest of Libya and North Africa, Ronaldson-
Tippett Generating: Plants have made a valuable
contribution.
Illustrated above is one of a very large number of Plants
comprising: Ronaldson-Tippett twin-cylinder vertical Diesel
Engine, direct-coupled to an 8 K.W. Generator, complete
with switchboard, which were produced by us for the British
The bonds of Empire are thus demonstrated in the
dependence of our kith and kin from overseas on the
products of Australian factories.
RONALDSON BROS. & TIPPETT PTY. LTD.
Head Office; BALLARAT, Victoria.
N.S.W. Distributors: Ronaldson Bros. & Tippett Pty., Ltd.,
Frazer House, 42 Bridge Street, SYDNEY.
Q’land Distributors: Ronaldson Tippett (Did.) Pty., Ltd.,
Parbury House, 127 Eagle Street, BRISBANE.
Army,
SSc-. -
but civilian requirements of Aus-
tralian-made Radiotrons have not been
neglected. Most widely used types are
available, but if the particular valve you
want is not obtainable, consult your Radio-
tron dealer regarding an alternative type.
RADIOTRON
THE WORLD'S STANDARD RADIO VALVE
AMALGAMATED WIRELESS VALVE CO. PTY. LTD.
THE MAN ON
THE LAND
"DON'T WORRY, I'M SENDING IT TO
GRAZCOS."
Branding Wool Bales.
“Murrawong”: “Jumbuck’s” remarks
(B. l/9/’43) against branding tender
wool as “Fleece” cover a well-known
maxim among classers. While it is
generally realised that the inclusion of
“Fleece” in a brand may be a deterrent
to its reaching the same market value as
sound wool, the propriety of putting the
onus on the buyer or appraiser may be
questioned.
In the first place it is not suggested
that this term should cover fleeces show-
ing a break in the wool, partly tender
and slightly tender wools, but should re-
fer only to those showing a clean break
in the staple. The other types may be
combed with modern machinery, and it is
usually the case to find the whole of the
mob thus affected, whereas only a few
individual sheep may have a clean break
in the wool due to sickness or fly
strike. Where the bulk of a clip is part
tender it is classed in the ordinary way
and branded as previously set out accord-
ing to its quality and length.
Despite “J.’s” contention that it is
better to try to hide the fact that the
wool in the bale is tender and to leave
it to the buyer to find it, this does not
always pay. Instances can be quoted
where certain dips have been adversely
reported on by the mills for that reason,
and buyers have been warned to leave
these brands severely alone in future.
This must reflect on the prices obtained
by the clip in after years.
Another point is that, where one or two
bales of tender wool are shown in a
catalogue, the buyer or appraiser will
gather that an attempt has been made
by the classer to take out the tender wool,
and he, accordingly, has more confidence
in handling the bulk of the clip. It
would be better, therefore, not only for
the sake of the individual but for the
benefit of the Australian clip, to brand
honestly.
Culling Ewes.
“Sheepo”: Few smaller growers bother
to cull, and many breed from anything
and everything. The results are seen in
the wool clip. Standardisation of a flock
can only bring about uniformity of the
clip in quality and length of staple, and
no grower should tolerate bad types of
breeding ewes.
Best time to cull is on the shearing-
board, when each reject can be raddled
on the face and drafted off before the
mob is sent to the paddock. As the ewes
are being shorn the type of wool they are
cutting can be seen, and it’s easy also
to determine age, conformation, consti-
tution and other deciding features. There
is no excuse for breeding from ewes that
can’t pay for the grass they eat.
Many small growers refuse to cull be-
cause they can’t get a price for their
rejects. If culls can’t be fattened for the
butcher, use them for dingo or crow bait
rather than let them beget lambs of their
own inferior type.
Some try to escape culling by buying
better rams than they’ve been using ; they
either don’t or won’t realise that the ewe
is 75 p.c. of breeding, and no matter how
good the rams may be flock standardisa-
tion and wool uniformity are impossible
unless the ewes have been culled. Far
better to sacrifice quantity for quality
and to get uniformity in the end. This
can’t be done without rigorous culling
of ewes.
Does It Pay to Scour?
“Outback'’: Partly to encourage de-
centralisation and partly to conserve
storage-space, it is being urged in Queens-
land that graziers should scour more of
their wool before submitting it for
appraisement. The artesian bore-water in
Central and North-western Queensland
appears to be ideal for scouring—wools
scoured there consistently bring high
prices—but for years wool experts have
been vainly trying to evolve a formula
to guide individual graziers as to whether
it would pay them to scour.
It doesn’t seem logical to pay freight on
dirt and other extraneous matter in wool
for upwards of 1000 miles, but in the
appraisement table of limits only a very
small proportion of the wool is auto-
matically scoured after being appraised.
This would indicate that even in war-
dme a large number of manufacturers
prefer to scour their own wool, prob-
ably because it enables them to meet
prevailing fashions. The question of
changing fashions has always been a
factor preventing wool experts from
evolving a guide for graziers.
Yield from low-grade wools sold In
the grease is difficult to judge, and
appraisers allow a fair margin in their
estimates; yield of high-quality fleece
lines can be accurately assessed in the
grease. For a 100 p.c. opinion on the
advisability of scouring it would be
necessary for a wool expert to be present
when the clip is taken off, but general
opinion among experts is that if there is
a scour handy it would pay to scour
thinly-grown, very dusty fleece wools not
seriously affected by seed; also locks,
crutchings and plain pieces. The
Queensland railways charge about 25 p.c.
more freight on scoured than on greasy
wool. It would encourage inland scours
if freight on both classes was the same.
Abscesses in Horses.
“Plane Creek”: Foreign bodies in the
flesh, infection of cuts, knocks, jars, germs
in the tissues, bring ’em on. An acute
abscess gathers rapidly with heat, pain
and swelling. Pus fills the head quickly,
and the abscess is soon ripe for lancing.
A chronic abscess heads very slowly
without marked pain, but with a great
deal of swelling and inflammation.
There are two methods of treating a
forming abscess. Its growth may be
retarded by frequent applications of
eucalyptus oil or oil of turpentine, and
the parts encouraged to become normal
and healthy again. Or its growth may
be stimulated with hot dressings, and the
abscess brought to a head and lanced.
Use the stimulation treatment when
the swelling is on the site of an old
wound or is accompanied by influenza
symptoms —a case of strangles. Even a
stubborn abscess will develop a head if
it is treated for half-hour periods with
hot water. Poultices are good, as is mus-
tard and vinegar water. Allow thorough
ripening to take place, then make a good-
sized opening with a sharp knife (steril-
ised). Pus should be caught on rag and
burned.
Syringe hydrogen peroxide into the
abscess cavity to loosen any hard matter.
If a foreign body, search for it beneath
the dead skin when the wound is free
from pus. Don’t allow the wound to
heal until you’re certain there’s nothing
in it that might cause further trouble.
Spring-sown Vegetables.
“Pat Ater”: Prepare for the biggest
sowing and planting season of the year
by digging over old beds that held winter
cabbages, cauliflowers and peas and turn-
ing over new ground, liming it well and
adding animal manures, compost or
humus and necessary fertiliser. You’ll
be ready then for spring and summer
lettuce, spinach, leeks, cucumbers (on the
coastline), tomatoes (early), peas (in
cooler districts), beans (sow in Septem-
ber), radish, rhubarb, beet and silver beet,
herbs, celery, mustard and cress.
Beds and rows which carried winter
leaf crops, and as a result were heavily
manured with nitrogenous stuff and
humus, will now be in good heart for
root plants like carrots, parsnips and
salsify (“vegetable oyster”—a tasty extra).
Break them well and deeply, but keep the
subsoil in its place. A good plan is to
use the pick, after the spade has done
the initial surface-breaking, and drive it
deeply into the subsoil to loosen it if
necessary. Usually a depth of 12in. to
15in. is sufficient for carrots and par-
snips, unless those outsize monsters of
the tablelands are wanted. There the
conditions mostly do the job without
much back-breaking aid.
Give a ration of lime. Then add a
fertiliser, rich in potash and phosphates,
such as No. 5, along the rows where seed
is to be sown. Sprinkle it in a narrow
3in.-wide band to avoid waste, and turn
it in Sin. to 6in. deep. A handful to the
yard will do. Sow seed on that —in
drills half-inch deep for carrots and an
inch deep for parsnips. Cover with sand
or light soil and manure (half-and-half)
and firm it well. That gives contact with
moist soil particles—after the watering,
which should be generous. See that no
drying-out occurs before germination.
Most of the other “above ground”
crops like a rich soil made up with ample
humus, lime and balanced fertiliser. Peas
revel in a good soil for highland spring
and summer growth. Lettuce, leeks,
tomatoes, parsley and the smaller extras
can be sown in seedbeds or boxes for
later transplanting. Remember that the
success of growing lettuce is rich soil,
water and warmth. Later they are better
sown where they are to grow.
Hints for the Farm.
“Jumbuck”; In some districts
“scabby” mouth is apt to break out in
lambs from now until late spring,
especially where there is plenty old dry
feed. Treatment is slow, but worth
while. Wash affected parts with a solu-
tion of eight tablespoonfuls lysol to one
gallon water, remove scabs and apply an
ointment made by mixing one part sul-
phur and ten parts unsalted fat. Affected
sheep treated every second day will be
cured within ten days. Lambs and sheep
that have been cured should not be placed
back with clean sheep for a couple .of
weeks after recovery.
“Plane Creek”: Lime gets in its best
work during autumn and winter, but is
beneficial to most soils at any time. After
liming the land don’t disturb it for a
month. Lime sweetens soil made acid
through being given large amounts of
nitrogenous fertiliser. New land is often
acid, and acidity may occur following the
harvesting of a crop if the land be hastily
cultivated and replanted with something
else. Stiff clay soils are made more work-
able by lime. A single dose will give only
temporary results ; sticky soils are per-
manently improved by numerous dress-
ings. Sandy soil is made heavier and
stiffer by lime. Its moisture-holding
capacity is increased, and it becomes less
subject to erosion. Leguminous green
manure crops grow best in recently-limed
soil. The less lime pineapples, radishes
and tomatoes get the better,
“Agro”: A favorite place for thistles
is along the banks of channels. Tackle
them before they go to seed by lightly
ploughing over them. After that use a
hoe to chop out any that show up.


Pelmanism
Scientific Training of Mind, Memory and Personality
H.ML Forces
160 admirals and generals and
nearly 100,000 other ranks have
taken the Pelman Course.
Approved by the War Office.
A gratifying feature of our relations
with students is the friendly communi-
cations we receive from time to time
from Pelmanists who completed the
course years ago. An extract from one
such letter is included below.
SOLDIER—34th April, ’43: “It is grati-
fying to realise the difference Pelinanism has
made in my Army life....as evidenced in
many new friendships, for instance.”
TEACHER—23nd May, ’43: “I have taken
a fresh grip on things. I used to dread
Inspections, and stew over them before and
after. I am now looking forward to this
year’s Inspection.”
SOLDIER—I4th May, ’43: “The Course
has improved me wonderfully, especially in
regard to observation and general efficiency.”
CLERK —7th April, ’42: “In an early
lesson you said that there is no magic in
Pelinanism. I can only say, from the peace
of mind and increased efficiency I have enjoyed
since studying Pelrnanisra, that it takes on
the appearance of magic.”
SOLDIER—I7th May, ’42: “My past
training in Pelmanism has stood me in good
stead since joining the A.I.F. There is
ample opportunity here for the application
of the Pelman principles of living.”
MEDICAL STUDENT—9th May, ’42;
“X find myself improved in decisiveness and
concentration, which have combined to vastly
increase my self-confidence.”
AIR FORCE —18th May, ’42: “I took the
Pelman Course in September, ’35. It proved
to be an outstandingly-vvise decision on my
part I have improved and increased my
earning capacity in the last six and a half
years....l have enthusiastically recommended
the Pelman Course to hundreds.”
BOOT TRADE—I2th May, ’42: “Each
lesson has shown me more grounds for im-
provement and my aims have become clearer.
1 applied for the Course to obtain social
ease, but quickly saw the wisdom of your
advice to aim at all-round development.”
SOLDIER—Ist May, ’42: “I undertook
+he Pelman Course to overcome a bad
memory, and I am making good progress.
Yesterday I had to learn the Morse Code,
and 1 made astonishing progress. To-day
there are only two letters of which I am not
quite certain.”
The Headquarters of the Pelman
Institute are in London.
The Institute has been established in
Melbourne under the same direction for
over 3-1 years, and has enrolled more than
50,000 of the half-million Pelmanists.
The staff of the Pelman Institute is fully awaie of the present need
for intensification of effort, and it sets out with each pupil to get
as quickly as possible to the core and substance of his individual
requirements.
On “being wanted”
The first source of moral strength is a certainty of being wanted,
of being acceptable to at least one group of people. A second source
is the conviction that, if we wish, we can make ourselves of use to
other groups and acceptable to them. The enlargement of the number
of groups and the intensification of our influence in any one of them
are determined by the degree of development of certain qualities, viz:
Perceptive Faculty Concentration Self-Control Judgment
Self-Confidence Organisation Will-Power Initiative
and a good memory for faces, figures, names, appointments, prices
and useful data of every kind.
Pelmanism trains these qualities, not with the object of making
the individual like anyone else, but so that he, as an individual, will
be as strong as it is possible for him to be. The Pelman Training sets
out seriously to do this so that the man will be himself at his best, able
to make a good performance of anything he undertakes.
More is said about this and other interesting aspects of
personality in “The Efficient Mind,” 76 pages, sent post
free. Inquiries are confidential. We have no outside
representatives.
The Pelman Institute
3 Gloucester House, 396 Flinders Lane
(Cr. Market St.), Melbourne.
Telephone: MU2355. Telephone or personal calls are welcomed.
Those who do not w'ish to cut The Bulletin are advised that “The Pelman Institute,
Melbourne,” is sufficient address.
New Zealand Inquirers.
The Pelman Institute, with
the approval of the Reserve
Bank, has made arrangements to
meet the financial restrictions
and enable residents of New
Zealand to enrol for the Pelman
Course of Training without
delay. Write in the first instance
lo the Pelman Institute, Mel-
bourne.
To the Pclinan Institute, 3 Gloucester House.
396 Flinders Lane, Melbourne.
Please send me, post-free, a copy of “THE EFFICIENT
MIND.”
Same
A rldress
157
10 for 1/1
20 for 2/2
tv
f
df
all you've got into £lO
National Savings Bonds.
SO 6 5 8
UNCABLED ADDITIONS
MacArthur Close-ups.
(Condensed extracts from a long article in
“Life” by Australian war correspondent George
Johnston.)
MacArthur’s headquarters in N.G.
carried the name that MacArthur has
given to every place he has made his head-
quarters : “Bataan.”
From it General MacArthur seldom
emerged. He stayed inside with his staff
and directed the New Guinea campaign
—one of the most successful ever earned
out in such difficult terrain with such
paralysing problems of supply.
Once in a while, at night, a doughboy
would catch sight of him as he paced
up and down on the verandah,
head bowed, clad in a black silk
dressing-gown with a red dragon on
the back, munching a green head
of lettuce. His light would burn far
into the morning, and sometimes you
could see his shadow on the window
shade as he read reports from the battle-
field or issued orders for the triple-
pronged offensive that was smashing the
Japs back to the Buna beaches. Usually
he was alone.
MacArthur has had a spate of hero-
worship and publicity such as is given to
few generals. Yet he remains probably
the greatest enigma of the war —to the
layman. To the professional soldier there
is no enigma except the eternal enigma
of genius. For the professional soldier
knows that MacArthur is a great, a very
great soldier.
A warrior straight out of medieval
times with conceptions of warfare at
least as modern as those of any other
soldier living. A man with flamboyance
in his speech and his writings, a man with
an incredible veneer of showmanship who
is at the same time a recluse, seldom seen
even by his troops, a man so remote that
he is almost a mystical figure.
No man who has ever written about
MacArthur has attempted to disguise the
streak of showmanship that is part and
parcel of the man. Since the days of
Julius Caesar, showmanship has never in
itself prevented a man from being a good
soldier. Australians asked only that the
man who led their forces should lead
them well. And as the months went by
there was continued evidence that they
were being led well.
When he was interviewed [in Aus-
tralia] the four-star general would always
have a stage property —a long, unlighted
cigar one time, a chunky bulldog pipe
another. And he used the properties for
gesticulation and emphasis with the his-
trionic ability of Sir Henry Irving. But
when he was asked a question, he never
hesitated in giving an answer that was not
only utterly complete but which was in
itself, taken down verbatim, a polished
essay on military lore. He could talk
solidly for two hours and never grope
for a word. Each talk would hold the
complete interest of twoscore of hard-
bitten foreign correspondents without a
second’s flagging.
The general would pace up and down
incessantly, drawing for parallel and
metaphor on Napoleon, on a line or two
from a melodrama he had seen in New
York a quarter of a century before, on
a speech by Lincoln, on Plato or a pas-
sage from Scripture. The tone of his voice
would vary from almost a whisper to a
ringing shout followed by a long period
of thoughtful silence.
Occasionally he would write a state-
ment to be issued under his own name.
Nobody but MacArthur could have issued
those statements so rich in emotion and
drama, so studded with resounding pas-
sages of almost Biblical style. They were
so completely unlike the statements of
any other soldier in the world —and so
utterly like MacArthur.
Because he is satisfied that he is being
given what the Australians call a “good
spin,” MacArthur is careful not to inter-
fere in the home scene. MacArthur’s
political support in Australia is all-party.
Because so much depends upon him he
could, if he desired, exert a profound
effect on the Australian political struc-
ture. But his fight is against the Japanese,
and he believes firmly in letting the poli-
ticians take care of the politics.
I believe sincerely that MacArthur has
no political ambitions in the United
States. I feel that one of the greatest
injuries done to a man who has undeni-
ably carried out a magnificent military
job was the press campaign of “Mac-
Arthur for President.” MacArthur, I
know, would much rather be remem-
bered in history as the “Liberator of the
Philippines” than as President of the
United States. His aim is to “keep the
soldier’s faith” —and that faith doesn’t
carry him into party politics.
After the Buna campaign was over and
MacArthur had returned to his head
quarters in Australia, he looked younger
than at any time since he had arrived
there. His hair was black, his eyes alert,
his step springy. At 63 years he was the
youngest-looking man for his age I had
ever seen. There was no sign of the early
bitterness. He looked happy, he joked
with correspondents, he answered every
question they asked with frankness and,
for him, a complete absence of theatri-
cals. His confidence in being able to lick
the Japs could be detected in every re-
mark, seen in every gesture.
Fire Around Japan.
(From the “Atlantic Monthly.”)
The ring of fire around Japan is kept
alight by forces which in the aggregate
rival those assembled around Western
Europe.
The logistic problems which have to
be solved for an aerial offensive over
Europe are simple compared with those
involved in the Pacific. It is over 2300
miles from San Francisco to Dutch
Harbor, and 2800 miles from there to
Tokyo. San Francisco is over 7000 miles
from Australia, a base without its own
supply of oil. Bombers based in Aus-
tralia, New Guinea, Guadalcanal and the
Samoa Islands have to guard an area
thousands of miles in extent.
Nothing short of colossal efforts could
have thrown this ring around Japan ;
only by even greater efforts can we main-
tain it and keep the fires burning towards
the centre. The war in the Pacific has
only just started. We have been assured
that it will be pressed with vigor and
that none of the roads to Tokyo will be
neglected —but there are plenty of re-
verses yet to come before we see much of
Tokyo from the ground.
The key to the Pacific war still lies
in China. In spite of six years of fight-
ing, the next few months will be the most
critical of the war, as far as China is
concerned. There is little use in conceal-
ing the fact that we are engaged in a race
to bolster China’s defences before Japan
can break down China’s power to resist.
For a “Second Front.”
( Condensed from an article by the editor of
London “Nineteenth Century.")
In the first few months of the German
invasion Russia began to resemble France
during the collapse. Russian troops


Ruwolt
m
* S' *
m mm
Size 60in. x 48in. Type RK Ruwolt Jaw Crusher
Finished Weight 135 Tons.
Recently designed and built by Ruwolt’s for the Broken
Hill Proprietary Company Limited, the Crusher illustrated
is a good example of the “heavy” type of engineering work
produced by Ruwolt’s.
Although now mainly engaged on munition work we are
also able to execute much of the requirements for the essential
Metal, Paper and Rubber Industries.
Then, when Australia has successfully overcome its
present difficulties, we will again be in a position to immediately
attend to all your requirements, similarly to what we have done
in the past.
CHARLES RUWOLT PTY. LTD.
530 Victoria Street, Richmond, E.l
Victoria, AUSTRALIA.
upf
*IW» jobs
m
z
/
Cd
muae-TAuae sets
Vtose a/nazlny duplex short-wave portables carried
on soldiers' backs in actual combat - are kept in
action by tony-lasting Eveready batteries
YOU CAN HELP US IN
OUR WAR JOB!
Go easy on your flashlight batteries so
we keep our Fighting Boys supplied.
The best way to make your flashlight
batteries last longer is to keep flashing
on and off when you use them. If you
leave your flashlight burning for minutes
at a time you wear out your batteries
sooner.
eVE READY
.tr«de-mark
The extra long life battery
surrendered in great numbers, and it
seemed that nothing could stem the Ger-
man advance. It would seem that hun-
dreds of thousands of Russians who
surrendered to the Germans perished of
hunger in German captivity.
In village after village, especially in the
Ukraine, the Germans were welcomed.
(The account we give of the attitude of
the Russian population is based on re-
ports we have received from a large
number of competent observers who
were in Russia at the time.) The system
of “collectivisation” is detested by the
Russian peasantry, who believed that the
Germans would break up the “collective
farms” and distribute the land. On many
of such farms the distribution was de-
cided upon in detail before the Germans
arrived, and each peasant confidently
expected that he would be confirmed in
the possession of his own share by the
invaders. But what the Germans were
expected to do was, to a large extent,
impossible. They were, above all, in-
terested in keeping the Russian rural
economy at work so that as large a sur-
plus as could be achieved might flow into
Germany.
They might in various small ways have
palliated the mortification of the peasan-
try ; but so far from trying to endear
themselves they behaved with unbearable
arrogance, committed hair-raising atroci-
ties, and exercised a brutish terrorism.
They converted the detestation in which
the Russian peasantry hold the Com-
munist despotism into hatred of the
invader.
The resemblance between the French
and Russian crises did not persist.
Russia has immense distances, which
France has not, and can, therefore, gain
time, which France could not do. Russia
has strong government, which France
has not had since the last war.
Even so, if the French had won a single
victory, as the Russians did at Rostov,
the French situation might have been
transformed.
It was transformed in Russia. In Mos-
cow itself Stalin struck with his customary
resolution at defeatism amongst the
population during the closing months of
1941. There were wholesale arrests and
summary executions. The Battle of
Rostov, in which the Germans seem to
have panicked, shook the myth of Ger-
man invincibility. The fearful atrocities
committed by the Germans became
known throughout Russia, for there was
no continuous front, and fugitives could
pass from occupied to unoccupied terri-
tory with comparative ease to tell the tale
of abominations endured and witnessed.
(Vast areas over which the war has
passed in Russia: are quite unscarred. The
policy known as “burnt earth” applied
almost entirely to depots, industrial plant,
bridges, dams and not to the rural areas.
The peasants took little or no part in
it.)
Russia’s great danger today is not only
the German invader, but food shortages.
The next winter promises to be one of
severest trial. No wonder the Russians
have been impatient for the “Second
Front.” This is not said to justify the
public appeals made in certain periodi-
cals, in leaflets, on posters and at
public meetings for a “Second Front.”
These appeals do Russia harm rather than
good, for they tend to intensify the re-
sentment that has been called forth by
the excessive adulation of everything
Russian and by the belittlement of every-
thing English that goes with this adula-
tion (and is, indeed, its principal pur-
pose).
Stalin is certainly determined to main-
tain his regime at all costs and to keep
the Red Army as an organised force,
however much it may be reduced by
losses, so that the events of 1917 and of
the years that followed shall not be re-
peated and Russia shall this time play
an important, perhaps a decisive, part
in making the peace. That she should
do so not as the opponent but as the
equal, though not more than equal, ally
of the Western Powers it is essential that
the armed forces of these Powers be
present in strength on the European
mainland. The “Second Front” is a con-
dition not only of a victorious war but
also of a just and lasting peace.
Dragnet Digest.
( Condensed from various acknowledged sources.)
The overwhelming majority of the people
of Great Britain feel that the American con-
tribution toward winning the war is less than
that of Russia, Britain or China, Dr. George
Gallup reported recently after a survey ot
British public opinion. Asked which country
they thought has so far made the greatest con-
tribution toward winning the war, 50 per cent,
said Russia, 42 per cent, picked their own
Great Britain, five per cent, named China, and
only three per cent, chose the United States.—
“Reader’s Digest:
* * * *
Prior to August, 1942, when the Germans
opened Phams to the entry of eight relief
ships a month, one million out of the population
of seven million in Greece perished of starvation
or diseases induced by starvation. —George
Creel; “Saturday Evening Post.”
* # * *
As th e, r „. troche SSZSf'SSrS’I
KMKH -ou 1 !
[U.S.] Government could do would be to press
on Stalin a proposal that he Jend-lease us some
Siberian air bases. We could equip these in
hefrt of e jaSnese'power C °Of d
rril d got ob wind d°al. RU Th\t aS wo o u°ld
mean a two-front war for Russia. We, how-
ever, are in a two-front war of our own, and
are not complaining much about it. It
seems to us that Mr. Stalin exhibits consider-
able nerve in continually prodding us to open
still another front in continental Europe while
refusing to let us have those air bases in Siberia,
— N.Y. “Daily News.”
* * *
Rntsda isn’t the rmlv countrv that is slow in
having militaJy observers from the United States
discover exactly what is aoing on at the front
in this war. Information about recent battles
between the Japanese and Chinese is quite
meagre and not at all satisfactory to American
military observers. —“ United States News.”
* * * *
Lend-lease which was only a twinkle in the
President’s eye at the beginning of 1941, has
today become the world’s biggest business,
What international cartel ever did a billion
dollars’ worth of transactions every month?
The fact that June allocations were almost
$300,000,000 over May’s testifies to the epic
growth of America’s war production. The
United States couldn’t spare a billion dollars’
worth of food, machinery, guns, ’planes and
relief goods for Britain, Russia, China and other
allies and near-allies if it weren’t producing
a lot more than that. The billion-dollar alloca-
tion for June also means that the submarine
menace has been whipped to such an extent that
transportation is assured for carrying these sup-
plies y overseas. —“ Christian Science Monitor”
Washington correspondent.
6 * *.
rr-, rv i t T„no
The British Minister tor W. ‘
set curtailment of production at 35 per cent.
for the Ruhr and 20 per cent for Germany as
a whole. That estimate, of course, no longer
holds. The air assault has since expanded by
nearly 50 per cent. —“ Atlantic Monthly .”
* * *
H.M.S. Churchill [one of the 50 destroyers
America swapped to Britain for bases] is the
only ship that ever fought with an uninhabited
island. On patrol in the Caribbean, the lookout
spotted a long, low shape dead off the bow.
The Churchill let go with all her forward guns
and crammed on speed. The bridge officers
found they were bearing down on the tiny isle
of La Sola. — N.Y. “Herald Tribune.”
* * * *
Suppose that Mr. Earl Browder [the Ameri-,
can Communist leader] within the last three
years had been asked to answer a few ques-
tions in American history on two separate
occasions. Then his examination paper would
have looked something like this:
Q.: Characterise briefly the system under
which the American people live.
A. (Browder before June 22, 1941): A
system of economic slavery.
ra^,Tn d d er . h e ft h“pe JU o n t e SkSt"' A d ' m ° C '
£ = SSi r th '„S I |95S) Ri «L for .he
ante ml) - Ul>,ate 10r
® j m]) A shini beacon tor
J npr . n]p „
Q; = prois for the
capitalists and red herrings for the discontented
p ° P D r^ e j pr nn , tV Xn dpfpnf | the m-eat Ameri-
KriSe of democracy §
can heritage ° ° y ‘ _ N Y “Time? ”
* * * *
A thousand bombers raiding Europe may
use a million gallons of 100-octane gasoline.
A tanker’s average load is less than 3,000,000
gallons (65,000 barrels). Consider the slowness
of the tankers, the length of their journey-
and those two statements from the Army Air
Forces will give you some idea of the difficulty
of supplying the tremendous bombing opera-
tions the United Nations. N.Y. Heiald
irioune.
* * * *
In the tropical hills of Formosa a tall, skinny
guy , strides along jungle paths, swishing at
weeds with a carved bambo 9 cane. .At the
end of the path the cane sings against taut
barbed wire and the man halting suddenly,
swears softly under his breath. He flicks
the dust from his faded old American Army
uniform with three silver stars on the shou der,
and prides back along the path. Not so long
ago his name was headline-famous all over the
world- It was in he Emporia Gazette, the
. Berliner Tageblatt and the Sydney Bulletin ,
m . Nichi and the London Express ,
and Pravda and 11 Popolo a Italia The
headlines called him a hero and a first-class
fight:ng man-even the enemy headlines did
that. But there on the jungle path caged
behind the wire, he might have wondered a
htt e wryly if People had forgotten There
had been so many names in the headlines since
May, 1942. He is Lieutenant-General Jonathan
Mayhew Wainwright, hero of Bataan—the fighter
who SQ inspired his men that they change d the
of c orre gidor to Wainwright’s Rock.—
„„ ... . ~ b &
uul
* * * .
“After the collapse of Hitler a businessmen s
Cabinet_ will replace the military ini Japan -These
men will want to talk peace. If, we. fall to
that our next generation will be fighting th
again. Unless we get busy in the Pacific ou
war with Japan will last tor ever. Max
Hill, former head of U.S. Associated Press
Tokyo office.


cy4-
FACING H PHRK
Tile one tiling you will imme-
diately notice when you stay at
the Wentworth is the peaceful
atmosphere . . . the absence of
noise and hustle. . . . The
Wentworth faces a park . . . yet
it is merely "round the corner”
from the centre of the city. The
rooms are all you would wish
. . . the service and cuisine
excellent.
THE WENTWORTH
in eiyj-
’Phone BW 1361 (10 lines)
C. D. Maclurcan, Managing Director
TH AT
K
TH E *
If Executorship is a
Burden, delegate the
duties to us
In these abnormal times, it is quite sufficient responsibility for you to have to
look after your own affairs, without having the added care of an estate to
administer. You can hand over this work to Burns Philp Trust Company
Limited. Write or call for a free booklet, "The Task that Few Men Want."
It will show you how you can relieve yourself of the burden of executorship,
and hand over the responsibility to a Company which is organised to give
constant, competent, and conscientious service. Apply for this booklet, now.
DIRECTORS—James Burns - Robert John Nosworthy - Lewis Armstrong - Joseph Mitchell
Manager—C. H. Chester
Burns Philp Trust
COMPANY LIMITED
7 BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY
PHONE: B 7901, Box 543 B, G.P.0., Sydney.
BP 47-43.
“It’s a pity you have to
sell your bonds, Mrs.
Jones, but I’ll get the
money for you.”
m
w
r
/
t ,
f.
i
m
Savings invested in War
Bonds are always available
M tha avont of pmppflpncies.
When you invest your savings in Aus-
tralia’s war effort, you are only lending
your money .. . not giving it. Nor is it
tied up for years so that you can’t get
any of it if circumstances should create
an urgent need of it. The Common-
wealth Bank will arrange this for any
person. Other Banks will do the same
for their own clients.
While it is desirable from every point of
view—from yours and your country’s—
that you should retain your war invest-
ments at least until after the war is over,
you can obtain cash for any or all of
them at any time.
Investment in Australia’s war effort is
your soundest investment, backed by
the security of all Australia, contributing
to an early victory by increasing Aus-
tralia’s striking power, and giving you
good interest on your capital.
Keep on buying War Savings Certifi-
cates from any Bank or Money Order
Post Office or make an advance sub-
scription now, to the Fourth Liberty
Loan, through any Bank or Stockbroker.
THE MORE YOU SAVE THE MORE YOU HAVE
LE 5-J 6
SERVICE DEPARTMENT.
Wants.
To buy Cassell’s Dictionary of Gardening,
edited by Walter P. Wright, and The Nature
Book, published by Cassell’s, three vols.—3384.
To buy materials suitable for making up on
a spinning wheel.—3385.
Information Sought.
(1) Is medicinal yeast beneficial in the treat-
ment of skin diseases such as pimples? (2)
Has it a high vitamin B content ? (3) Has it any
other features making it valuable for this pur-
pose? (4) Would vitamin B tablets be a better
corrective ? (5) Why should I avoid all fatty
and starchy foods if skin troubles are caused
by lack of vitamin B ?
(1) Yeast is not a panacea for skin troubles
of all sorts, though it exerts a favorable influ-
ence in certain diseases, such as pellagra and
beri-beri. (2) Yeast is a source of the dozen
or so substances comprising the vitamin-B com-
plex, of which the collection known as vitamin
B 2 is one. (3) and (4) No. (5) There is no
good reason why you should avoid fats and
starches, which are contained in all adequate
diets.
(1) Is it legal in Australia to breed animals
such as the musk rat, silver fox, skunk, chinchilla,
etc.? (2) Would the Victorian climate be suit-
able for these? (3) In view of the importation
cost, would it be profitable ? (4) Has the idea
been tried in Australia before?
(1) No animal can be imported into Aus-
tralia without permission of the Federal Gov-
ernment, which before the war appointed a
committee to inquire into the possibility of
breeding animals for the purposes of the fur
trade. If the matter is gone on with after the
war the present intention is that it will
a Government enterprise. (2) The Victorian
or other Australian temperate climates would
be suitable provided the locality were elevated,
such as the Australian Alps and the highland
districts of N. S. Wales or Tasmania. (3)
Fur-farming would be profitable even if furs
were to be sold at lower rates than those
prevailing just prior to the war. (4) The Vic-
torian Government held an inquiry into possi-
bilities of farming Australian water rats. Par-
ticulars are obtainable from the Victorian Agri-
cultural Department.
Particulars of the evolution of the Australian
reaper and binder?
The reaper and binder is not an Australian
invention. The first attempts to design reaping
machines were made in England and Scotland.
The Highland and Agricultural Society of
Queensland in 1827 paid a premium of £5O to
the Rev. Patrick Bell, of Carmilie, for a reaper,
but the man mostly responsible for the de-
velopment of the modern reaper and binder
appears to have been McCormick, who designed
the machine now known as the McCormick-
Deering.
How to polish bullock horns ?
Scrape off roughness with a rasp or piece of
thick glass, then use sandpaper (first coarse
and then finer grades). Next rub horn length-
wise with flannel dipped in powdered pumice
moistened with raw linseed oil. Rub hard till
horn is silky-smooth, then go over it with a
good floor cream, and polish with chamois
and jeweller’s rouge. Beeswax and turps makes
a good floor cream.
Recipe for orange wine?
Select ripe oranges. Peel and cut across;
squeeze into wooden tub, discarding pips. Add
21b. sugar to each gallon of sour juice or 11b.
to sweet juice. Add one quart water to each
gallon of juice and sugar, strain into a cask
(which should be filled) and allow to ferment.
When working ceases bung tight, bottling in
six months. Remember that wine of this class
comes under excise laws.
Information on making of pipe bowls from
the fruit of African calabash plants ?
The gourd of the calabash is cut when ripe,
when the skin is too hard to be pierced by
pressure of the thumbnail. It is then dried
slowly and till skin is hard; is then cut with
a sharp fretsaw. The pipes are made from the
curly stem, but are usually lined with pipeclay
and fitted with silver mountings; a skilled job.
The gourds themselves make useful bowls and
need no lining.
(1) Recipe for drink containing oranges and
lemons? (2) How can 1 keep this juice over
a few months ?
Extract orange- and lemon-juice with cone
extractor, add one cup of sugar to three cups
of juice and pour into bottles, making sure
the sugar is first dissolved. Stand bottles in
kero.-tin and pour in water to reach high up
the neck of the bottles (have water and juice
same temperature), put lid on and raise tem-
perature to boiling-point for one hour. Take
off stove, press corks well in and dip in wax
when cold. Store in cool, dark place. One
lemon to three oranges will give a good juice
mixture.
Brief Answers.
W. 8.5.: Alfred Deakin was Prime Minister
when Commonwealth invalid and old-age pen-
sions came into operation... .M.W.: (1) All
accepted contributions are paid for. (2) There
are no special “Vice-regal” colors; Lord Wake-
hurst’s are dark blue and yellow. (3) Poe’s
Tales of Mystery and Imagination would suit
you—available in a dozen editions H.G.1.:
Address of Airzone, Ltd., radio manufacturers,
is 16 Australia-street, Camperdown, N.S.W.
. ...R.F.M.; It is usual to make some small
gift to people celebrating their golden wedding.
Answers to Correspondents
Name and address nmst appear on the MS. No
liability is undertaken re contributions voluntarily
submitted; and no MS. will he returned unless
stamps accompany. MS. should be addressed to
the Editor.
E.N.J.: Not a hope... .K.K.; Get rid of
that “enhance”... .V.E.McA.: Once every week
during the last 20 years we have posted back a
“Mailman” and burned an “Old Bark Hut”....
Write a poem of your own instead of
copying Masefield... .D.T.R.: “Verdant dress,”
“b'auty grand,” “beauty rare,” “necklace
rare,” “beauty of a grand and solemn kind,”
“verdant green”-—cliches shouldn’t be used at
all and you use each one twice H.L.; “I
made it up this morning about five o’clock.”
Only roosters should try to sing at that hour.
J.F.: “Spring is coming at last, I think.”
It’s a certainty when the spring pomes begin
to b100m..:. M.H.: Leave it to service men....
V.G.K.: Scoundrels without gaiety tend to be
merely dingy L.H.: “The Old Girl” is lively
but thin J.C.: For a daily F.S.: Too
much Saroyan, too much Hemingway and no
real characterisation... .E. 8.: Not a story....
L.R.: “Pests” should be exterminated.


mi.mmMiwt'
pROBIt M
LUD OWICI S
have the answer
Illustrating
the LUDOWICI
PIVOT DRIVE
BEHIND the fine quality and the assurance of maximum efficiency in
Ludowici Power Transmission Equipment, stand Ludowici Technicians
—men whose knowledge and experience of every power transmission re-
quirement enable them to give a ready answer to your particular problem.
Our reputation has been built on our willingness to give an unbiassed
opinion and to recommend and supply the most suitable equipment for
each power transmission application.
You have only to ask for our advice to have it freely given.
J. C. LUDOWICI & SON LTD.
117 YORK STREET, SYDNEY
leather
belting
•
pCLL E Y a
.MIL
COUPLINGS
SHAFTING
GEARS & HANGERS
*
fl
LUDOWICIS
VfiUUTV
TRANSMISSION
EQUIPMENT
&
The Mutual Life and Citizens’
Assurance Company, Limited
Martin Place and Castlereagh Street,
SYDNEY.
Founded 1886.
There is no better way of p*» widing
cash for your family, or for yourself
when you retire, than by taking out
a policy with The M.L.C.
ASSETS EXCEED £37,000,000
ANNUAL INCOME EXCEEDS
£5,500,000.
M. O. Alder, A.1.A.,
General JJmiager.
///JL
4\7i
iPxojai
°jr
&)ii
QU
uTv
WHEN YOU USE )
■JMOGGET
SHOE POLISH
Nf>
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
Kandos Cement (N.S.W.)
Net To Re- Re-
June, Profit, Dividends. serves, serves.
£ £ £ • £
Written off shares in other cos., £10,000.. 349,342
1932.. 14.820 24 p.c. = 21,058 343,104
1933.. 41,037 5 „ ~42,116 342,025
Profit on sale of Consols. £B5Bl . . 350,606
1934.. 40,479 6 p.c. = 40,432 47 350,653
Surplus on realisation of assets, £12,549. . 363,202
From doubtful debts reserve, £452.. 363,654
Written off shares in other cos., £6958.. 356,696
1935.. 76,471 74 p.c. = 50,540 25,931 382,627
From doubtful debts reserve, £193 .. 382,820
1936.. 78,015 10 p.c. = 67,386 10,629 393,449
Surplus on investment, £4044 .. .. 397,493
1937.. 83,108 10 p.c. = 67,386 15,722 413,215
Tax provision written back, £7368 . . 420,583
1938.. 97,101 124 p.c. = 84,233 12,868 433,4£1
1939.. 98,340 124,, ~84,233 14,107 447,558
1940.. 96,705 124 „ ~84,233 12,472 460,030
1941.. 98,636 12J „ ~ 84,233 14.403 474,433
1942.. 94,273 124,, ~84,233 10,040 484,473
1943.. 66,350 7.8,, ~52,645 13,705 498,178
Although most people who are not actu-
ally interested in the co. or its operations
associate it directly with the Kandos
works in N. S. Wales, Kandos Cemerrt
Co. is these days more than ever grateful
that in 1930 it merged with Australian
Portland Cement Co., Victoria, and in
return became the proprietor of half the
shares in Australian Portland Cement
Pty., which took over both the Kandos
and Fyansford (Vic.) works. Nowadays
the Victorian side of the business is the
more important, largely because of the
efficiency of the plant, which has a
theoretical capacity of 300,000 tons,
against 200,000 tons in the case of
Kandos. The Victorian market is not so
overcrowded as that of N. S. Wales,
where rationalisation has had to be en-
forced to the extent of closing down some
plants; at present even Goliath, in'Tas-
mania, is finding shipping a difficulty in
selling its product on the other side of
Bass Strait. Until McKell introduced
special taxation of inter-State income it
was all to the advantage of Australian
Portland (apart from other costs) to
concentrate on its Victorian plant,
since income passed on to the N. S.
Wales holding co. carried some bene-
fit. But after a short period of
McKell taxation the Commonwealth be-
came the sole taxing authority, with a
uniform rate.
The Fyansford works, modern and
highly efficient, are nowadays responsible
for most of the profit. Earnings of the
operating co., in spite of rationalisation
and whatever individual action the man-
agement itself may have taken to cope
with war-time problems, have been caught
between a price ceiling and a steep up-
ward movement in costs, a big factor
being wage increases based on costs in-
flation, as well as taxation. The earn-
ings of the subsidiary are not revealed,
but for a considerable period it is ob-
vious that they were quite comfortable,
both holding concerns paying 12j p.c.,
although at the time of the merger the
working co. kicked off with about
£650,000 of goodwill on the basis of book
values of the assets it acquired in ex-
change for 2,000,000 shares —Kandos had
a paid capital of £673,862 and Australian
Cement £760,433.
Last term Kandos showed a net profit
of £66,350 from its cement investment
and interest earnings, a fall of £27,923
compared with the preceding term. It
was the poorest showing since 1934, repre-
senting 9.8 p.c. on capital, compared with
14 p.c. in the 1941-42 year. The div.
dropped sharply to 7.8 p.c., and only an
average amount was carried to reserves.
Whether the working co., which balances
a month earlier than Kandos, carried
more than the usual sum to reserves
cannot be discerned.
Kandos reserves now stand at £498,178.
Outsiders are owed only £10,135, while
there is £206,849 in cash and war loans
and £1650 in debtors. The holding in
the operating co. still appears at the
original figure £1,000,000. Notwith-
standing the lower div. the sharemarket
bids the maximum price of 335. 6d. for
Kandos 16s. shares without attracting
sellers.
At the Kandos annual meeting chair-
man C. A. Jaques said the building trade
and Government civil works were prac-
tically at a standstill, and a slackening
in the demand for defence cement re-
quirements was indicated. However, a
N. S. Wales shortage of 80,000 houses
was expected by the end of this year,
and, as each house called for about eight
tons of cement, a fairly large market
later on was indicated.
Howards, Ltd. (Brisbane)
, Dividends — \
Net Pref. To Re- Re-
June, Profit. 6 p.c. Ordinary. serves, serves.
£ £, £
1932.. 7,008 26 8 p.c. = 13,618 167,838
1033 5 133 13 8„ ~ 6,259 166,69.)
mi.'.' 8,874 8 „ ” 6,259 2,615 169,314
Reserves capitalised, £26,080 •• 143,234
1935.. 12,126 8 p.c. = . 8,345 3,781 147,015
mil'! 16 848 -8,, ~ 8,345 7,498 154,513
Loss liquidation subsidiaries, £1993. . 152,520
1937 . 18 717 16 P.C. = 10,432 8,285 160,800
1938.". 22’,460 10 „ „ 10,432 12,028 172,833
Reserves capitalised, £34,773 .. 138,060
1939.. 20,821 10 p.c. •- 13,909 6,912 144,972
1940.. 12,585 8 „ „ 11,127 1,458 146,430
1941.. 12 332 8 ~ ~ 11,127 1,205 147,635
1942.. ]2’,007 —8,, ~ 11,128 879 148,514-
1943.. 22,423 —• 8,, ~ 11,128 11,295 159,809
Financially, it was a very successful
year, though the figures in the table are
subject to some income-tax adjustment.
In view of a cautious attitude taken by
the board in 1942 when outlining future
prospects, the chairman this time remarks
that “no doubt shareholders will be sur-
prised at the substantial increase in the
profits shown for the year.” The story
is briefly this. Gross profits, after a fall
of £27,166 in the two preceding years that
was accompanied by a contraction of no
more than £578 in net earnings, last term
showed a more moderate contraction of
£2099. Such good work was done in cut-
ting down overhead that a saving of
£l2,sls.resulted, after charging £4BOO in
respect of the previous year’s income tax
but without making any provision for
the past year’s charge other than that in
the reserve (£22,708) established in years
gone by. The board says that an amount
equal to about half the year’s net profit
will have to be paid in respect of 1942-43
taxation. This net profit is shown £10,416
higher at £22,423. The div. remained
steady at 8 p.c., absorbing approximately
half the earnings shown in the accounts.
Reserves of £159,809 are in excess of
capital (£139,093), but are subject to the
taxation lag year. All other contingencies
are believed to have been provided for.
The co. established a firm foundation
on the strength of the Chevrolet agency,
which it relinquished in 1930 following
the setting-up in Australia of General
Motors’ own wholesale distribution. In
the period that followed, until the out-
break of war, the Morris and Studebaker
franchises for Queensland and the N. S.
Wales Northern Rivers kept the div.
going, assisted by the agencies for Elec-
trlCE refrigeration and Philco radio and
a steady trickle of interest earnings from
hire-purchase contracts established over
a period of years. Another source of
income has been a portfolio of listed in-
dustrial shares and Consols, etc., the
nature and extent of which is not defined
in balance-sheet figures. Between the de-
pression and the outbreak of war £60,853
of bonus scrip was handed out.
An addition to activities last year was
the sub-distribution of International
trucks, which “should prove a valuable
agency.” The manufacture of refrigera-
tors is still controlled, the requirements
of the Australian and Allied forces call-
ing for practically all output, there being
no supplies for general sale.
Balance-sheet figures show the increas-
ing liquidity of restricted trading;
1940. 1941. 1942. 1943.
Paid capital. . £139,093 £139,093 £139,093 £139,093
Creditors* . . 39,868 30,995 31,648 30,489
Freehold . . 69,969 69,949 69,929 69,929
Plant, etc. . . 1,754 1,795 1,623 1,452
Stocks. . . . 105,247 87,880 69,869 43,640
Book debts, in-
vestments, etc. 158,458 138,223 161,348 181,584
Cash, etc. . . 1,092 31,003 27,603 43,913
* Including unaccrued interest.
There has been a progressive decline in
stocks since 1940, last year’s reduction
being £26,229. The omnibus item “sun-
dry debtors and bills receivable (less
allowance for doubtful debts), shares in
cos. and investments at cost, less provi-
sion for depreciation, and Commonwealth
bonds” rose £20,236 to £181,584, while
cash, etc., increased £16,310 and the out-
side debt was worked down £1159. In-
come from hire-purchase contracts is fall-
ing as the contracts run out, and the sur-
plus is invested in Consols. The visible
net tangible backing is ,435. a share, a
large proportion of it in surplus liquids.
No indication has been given of any in-
tention to return proportion of these
liquids to shareholders, which would seem
to indicate that the board foresees full
employment for at-present-idle funds
when the war is over.
Burns Philp (South Sea) Co., Ltd.
Net To Re- Re-
Jan., Profit. Dividends. serves, serves.
£ £ £ £
1032*. 56,695 G ; } p.c. = 46,876 9,820 96,230
1933.. 52,188 6J „ „ 46,875 5,313 101,543
1934.. 38,058 5 „ „ 37,600 558 102,101
1935.. 37,158 5 ~ „ 37,500 101,760
1936.. 42,754 5 „ „ 37,500 5,254 107,013
1937.. 58,088 5.8 „ „ 43,750 14,338 121,351
1938. . 60,145 6i ~ ~ 46,875 1,0 om -,0, r,9i
To staff fund, £5OOO .. j I^7o ■*■34,o^l
1939.. 51,233 6f p.c. = 46,875 4,358 138,970
1940.. 49,352 6i ~ ~ 46,875 2,477 141,450
1941.. 38,971 5 „ ~ 37,500 1,471 142,927
1942.. 45,661 5 „ „ 37,500 8,161 151,088
1943.. 58,243 6J ~ 46,875 11,368 162,456
*l3 months.
For the sharp spring of £12,582 in last
term’s net earnings—-only once during
the last decade has better been shown —
shareholders can thank the American
Fleet and Allied land forces which
stopped and then began to roll back
Japan’s drive into the South Seas, thus
preventing more of the co.’s assets fall-
ing into enemy hands and providing the
security necessary to continue trading in
the South Seas. Other factors were better
demand and better prices for copra and
other island products, for which a bit
more shipping space was made available,
and heavy defence expenditure in Fiji,
where the co.’s headquarters are and
have been ever since it took over this
Section of the big B.P. organisation.
Besides buying and selling copra,
cocoa, trochus shell, timber, ivory nut,
beche-de-mer, vanilla and other local pro-
ducts the co. does a large general mer-
chandising, shipping and finance (ad-
vances to planters, etc.) business as well.
After the outbreak of war with Germany,
the British Government fixed the price
of copra at £l2 per ton, later reduced to
£ll 12s. 6d. Costs continued to rocket
and stocks accumulated, owing to the
shipping bottleneck, and many planters
walked out and left the stuff to rot.
Then the picture changed. Japan
entered the struggle and a large part of
the world’s copra-producing areas fell
into enemy hands, the Allies found them-
selves desperately short of an important
commodity, and the British Government
lifted the price of copra to £lB per ton
f.0.b., Suva. This and the halting of the
Japanese drive already referred to altered
the outlook for island traders. Mean-
while, the Solomon and Gilbert Islands,
where the co. had four branches and did
an extensive trade, had fallen into enemy
hands. The loss was chalked up against
inner reserves and 1942 earnings in un-
disclosed proportions.
So, despite hampering Government re-
strictions, rising costs, shortage of mer-
chandise and irregular shipping facilities,
the co. was able to show £39,964 more
gross profit (£220,371) last term. Trading
exes. (£124,796) moved up £35,476, and
an extra £2075 was set aside for depre-
ciation (£19,099), but the allowance for
bad debts and losses (£18,233) was
£10,170 lighter. That left a net gain of
£12,582, lifting the profit (£58,243) to 7.7
p.c. on the £750,000 of share capital,
compared with 6, 5.1 and 5.6 p.c. for the
three preceding terms. The div. was
lifted from 5 p.c. to 64 p.c.
The already strong financial position
was further strengthened :
1940. 1941. 1942. 1943.
Paid capital. . £750,000 £750,000 £750,000 £750,000
Liabilities . . 55,708 57,180 119,222 430,777
Properties, „„„
shipping, etc. 384,546 357,280 215,679 199, -.09
Investments . . 258,096 281,433 211,421 282,560
Stocks, etc. . . 98,803 91,496 390,504 698,998
Book debts .. 163,221 159,104 121,666 90,482
Cash . . . . 67,498 79,544 99,790 100,108
Outstanding feature last term was a
growth of £311,555 in the outside debt,
which was accompanied by an expansion
of £308,494 in stocks, etc. This mainly
reflects the British Government’s copra
purchases. Investments, up £71,139, in-
clude an unspecified amount of Govern-
ment securities. The more or less liquid


H3
Try the new Roussel
Appliance Free. En-
ables you to do hard
work with comfort and
security. Definitely
holds, a condition ab-
solutely necessary for
Improvement or recov-
ery, Recommended by
Doctors. Satisfaction
guaranteed no matter
where you live. Send for details, self-
measurement form, testimonials and 14 days'
free trial offer. No obligation.
THE ROUSSEL APPLIANCE CO.,
(Dept. 31), 9 Martin Place, Sydney.
CREAM
TABLETS
L J
THE CHILDREN'S FAVOURITE
FOR GENERATIONS
IN MIDDLE-AGE-
KIDNEYS OFTEN
NEED THIS HELP
Many people going Into middle age note a
slowing down of the healthy bladder action of
youth. While this is to be expected to a de-
gree, If passage is frequent and scanty, ac-
companied by burning and smarting. Nature
may he warning that there Is something
wrong with your kidneys or bladder.
The kidneys are Nature’s chief way of
taking the excess acids and waste out of the
blood. Most people pass about 3 pints a, day
or about 3 pounds of waste.
An excess of acids or poisons in your
blood, when due to functional kidney dis-
orders, may be the cause of nagging back-
ache, rheumatic pains, leg pains, loss of pep
and energy, getting up nights, swelling, pufil-
ness under the eyes, headaches and dizziness.
Don’t wait 1 Ask your chemist or store for
DOAN’S BACKACHE KIDNEY PILLS, used]
successfully by millions for over 40 years.
They give happy relief and will help the 15
miles of kidney tubes flush out poisonous
waste from your blood. Get DOAN’S BACK-
ACHE KIDNEY PILLS to-day. They are a
special remedy for the kidneys and will g*va
ouick and lasting benefit. Old and yerng
alike can take DOAN’S BACKACHE KIDNEY
PILLS with perfect safety.
PATENTS. —Have you an idea worth patenting?
Griffith, Hassel and Griffith, Patent Attorneys,
Asbestos House, Cr. York and Barrack Streets, Sydney,
obtain Commonwealth and foreign patents.— Advt,
* * * *
DAVIES & COLLISON, Patent Attorneys, Collins
House, 360 Collins Street, Melbourne, C.l. Austra-
lian and overseas Patents and Trade Marks. — Advt.
X
For Australia at War . . .
Qfe Manufacture
LATHES . . . CAPSTAN TURRET LATHES
SHAPING, MILLING and PLANING
MACHINES .... BORING MILLS
MACHINE-CUT GEARS for the Trade
★
MARS MACHINE TOOL Manfg. Go.
Pty. Ltd. Bridge Street, Valley, Brisbane
INFLATION
makes the £ smaller
CONDITION of inflation may give a pretence
of prosperity but, unless checked, it leads
inevitably to suffering.
From the day when the spendable money in the
hands of the people began to exceed the volume of
goods and services they could spend it on, inflation
began, that is to say, prices began to rise (despite
control) and the purchasing power of the £ became
smaller and smaller.
All the people suffer under inflation, and particularly—
(l) The thrifty, i.e., those who have their savings in cash,
Savipgs Banks, War Savings Certificates, War Bonds, and
Life Assurance.
(2) Civil Servants, clerks, teachers, and all on fixed salaries
and wages.
(3) The aged who are living on the proceeds of investments or
on pensions.
(4) Owners of houses who rely on the income from them for
their livelihood.
The only way to check the suffering, the only way to
maintain the purchasing power of the £, is for everyone to
spend lessj and to put more money into War Loans and Life
Assurance. It may seem a contradiction, but it is the cold
truth.
AJH.P. SOCIETY
Security through Co-operation.
Principal Board:
Sir Samuel Hordern, K.8.E., Chairman.
Cecil H. Hoskins, Esq., Deputy Chairman.
Hon. Sir Frederick H. Tout, M.L.C., Hubert Fairfax, Esq., W. A. Mackay, Esq.,
Dr. S. A. Smith, Septimus G. Rowe, Esq.
A. W. Sneddon, F.1.A., General Manager and Actuary.
C. M. Martin, Secretary.
A. E. Webb. Manager for New South Wales.
Head Office; 87 PITT STREET. SYDNEY.
WITHOUT
Lubricants
for the Wheels
of War
IX is quite possible that only a
handful of Australians fully
appreciate the extraordinary part the
Shell Company of Australia is play-
ing in the development of local
manufacturing industries.
For Instance, Shell is operating the
most modern grease producing unit
in Australia, and the greases now
being manufactured range from the
semi-fluid to the solid block types as
used in steel mills, paper mills, loco,
journals, etc. In tne same plant a
great number of greases is manufac-
tured to meet the rigid specifications
demanded by the technical services
of the fighting forces.
At each main terminal port, the Com-
pany operates large modem blending and
manufacturing equipment for the pro-
duction of grades of industrial lubricants
required to meet the specialised needs of
every type of Australia’s expanding in-
dustry. Included amongst uiese special
grades are textile, cutting, tanners' and
other special types of oils.
Large quantities of cutting oils, for
example, are used by munitions depart-
ments. Government annexes, and private
enterprise for the manufacture of war
equipment.
Development of these products has
been largely the result of collaboration of
Shell chemists and engineers with firms
engaged in the production of war
materials in Australia
They
COULD NOT FIGHT
Chemists, Engineers and
Laboratory Staff work round the dock,
experimenting, checking, stabilizing and
manufacturing new types of lubricants in
order that there should be no slowing down
of vital Industries.
So much depends on the correct oil for
each machine, and so much has been accom-
plished to keep the heavy and intricate
machinery - working non-stop, that the
public generally, do not realize the enormous
amount of research work that goes on to
enable supplies to be delivered to the men of
the Fighting Services.
-m4-hnn
lIOXIUHS
SHELL
OIL
Ifou can fa sum <$
THE Shell company of Australia limited
{IffCORPORATeO IN ENGLAND)
w
LQ439H-6S,
surplus (£741,371) was £37,212 stronger
than at the previous balance.
What the future holds for the business
remains to be seen. In addition to the
outcome of war with Japan, much will
depend upon the result of experiments,
now being carried out in U.S.A., with
synthetic substitutes for coconut oil, etc.
All that can be said definitely is that the
co. is well equipped financially and other-
wise to win whatever profits are to be
had from trading in Fiji and the sur-
rounding South Seas,
While distributions exhibit only a third
of their former frequency, “provided the
present number of men is not greatly
reduced your directors anticipate that
present quarterly divs. will continue until
such time as it is possible to return to
full-scale operations”—Wattle Gully to
shareholders in that Chewton (Vic.) gold-
producer’s latest report. No certainty
can attach to man-power at a time when
most goldmines have put caretakers in,
but it’s a happy state of affairs, and re-
flects the management’s vision in develop-
ing ore well ahead of the mill and in
building up essential stocks and mine
stores. Last term’s 23 p.c. contraction in
throughput as the result of one-shift
working had most to do with the halving
of earnings; costs were nailed down to
a nominal rise:— -
All-in
Six Treated, Beal’n, Costs, Net f —Dividends—
Months, Tons. Ton. Ton. Profit. Share. Amt.
June, ’4l. .14,166 77/4 84/-£31,294 3/-£27,000
Dec., ’41.. 16,709 71/10 33/3 32,603 3/- 27,000
June, ’42. .12,279 81/8 89/1 20,386 3/- 27,000
Dec., ’42.. 7,519 82/2 46/8 13,552 1/6 13,500
June, ’43.. 5,770 72/8 47/7 7,411 1/- 9,000
Mill-feed is being drawn from above No.
8 level, and, on the strength of the known
downward continuation of the deposit
and the even 7dwt. recoveries that con-
tinue to be obtained over the plates, the
market is backing the mine to the ex-
tent of five years’ purchase of normal
divs. While maintenance of 6d. quarterly
may occasion some nibbling at more-or-
less surplus liquids for the time being,
these are substantial at £233,000.
* * , * *
Employment in Tasmania’s mineral in-
dustry (mining and extraction) declined
from 5705 to 5586 in the year to June
last, and the value of production from
£3,465,832 to £3,433,920, despite the
higher overall level of metal prices.
Copper and zinc are the big contributors.
Output of the former put on weight;
that of the latter contracted, along with
the so-called “lesser” but vital war
minerals wolfram, tin, cadmium and
osmiridium. Thanks to the State’s hydro-
electric resources, a £3,000,000 aluminium
project, to be financed at Common-
wealth risk, is the Apple Isle’s latest gain.
Commercial-grade bauxite, raw material
of the aeroplane metal, is claimed to be
available in fairly large quantities in the
Ouse region, and other occurrences are
known at Campbell Town, St. Leonards
and Swansea. Commonwealth moneys
for mineral development are flowing into
the State in other ways, notably in the
big expansion programme at King
Island Scheelite and for large-scale tin-
dredging at South Mt. Cameron. In-
terest in non-metallics is also showing up.
* * * *
Paringa (W.A.) reports further good
values in the telluride-and-gold ore-pipe
at the 520 ft. level of Paringa lease. A
further extension of 26ft. of the inter-
mediate south drive off a winze has
opened up typical Kalgoorlie Golden
Mile sulphide rock of 30dwt. value over
an exposed width of 44 inches. Next to
the famous Oroya-Brownhill shoot this
pipe seems to be the most valuable gold-
carrier yet located in the extreme
northern end of the Mile.
=:< * * *
A Blue Spec circular, dated August
27, says that, as previously advised.
Minerals Production Committee of the
Commonwealth Government recom-
mended the expenditure of an additional
£35,000 on the development and equip-
ment of the co.’s gold and antimony mine
near Marble Bar (W.A.). An earlier
grant was made and expended under
Government supervision, so that the pro-
gramme envisages a total outlay of
£50,000. In granting the additional
£35,000 the Government stipulated that
the co. should contribute portion of the
amount. It has now requested, and the
co. has agreed, to make a call of 2d. a
share, which will make them paid to
Is. Id. and leave lid. a share still to
call up. Wiluna Gold Mines, Ltd.,
appointed by Minerals Production Com-
mittee, is consultant.
* * * 4=
From London:
Mining-tax dangers and threat to market were
stressed by Lord Geddes, chairman of Rio
Tinto, the other day. He said there had been
built up in England over the past 100 years
or so a very efficient, very complex organisa- 1
tion —financial, technical, industrial and com-
mercial —spoken of as the London mining
market. It was engaged in mining and explora-
tion in overseas countries and in financing, de-
veloping and managing mining enterprises.
These enterprises, Empire and foreign, made in
the aggregate a very large contribution to the
export trade of the U.K., visible and invisible.
Moreover, the control in England of large
sources of strategic minerals had proved of vital
importance in every recent war. Position of
the U.K. as a centre of overseas mining enter-
prise had been in recent years increasingly
challenged, and the mainspring of that challenge
lay in the much more favorable taxation posi-
tion of mines registered in other countries com-
pared with those registered in U.K. Without
some provision to secure fairplay for mining
cos. domiciled in England the London mining
market would vanish, added Geddes.
* * * *
The way of the South African gold-
producing taxpayer is hard. Last year
the aggregate levy on goldmines in the
Transvaal amounted to over £27,000,000
sterling. Yet the industry bore up well
under this burden, and, according to John
Martin, chairman of Rand Mines, Ltd.,
achieved results that reflected clearly in-
herent stability.


I
and
Save all you can-
use your
COMMONWEALTH
SAVINGS BANK
account as a stepping-
stone to investment in
Australia's war effort.
X.
■n
STEPsmmE
n/CrHT
D/fECT/OM..
Your Savings Bank is a
massive money-box. One
that is safe, reliable, and
convenient.
And just as the little money-
box at home is an easy way
to save for purpose,
so your account at the Sav-
ings Bank is an easy way
to muster the money for
War Purposes.
Tho Commonwealth Savings
Bank provides every facility and
service for the purchase of War
Savings Certificates, £10 National
Savings Bonds, and War Loan
Bonds.
It will keep them in safe custody
for you. free of charge, pay the
interest into your account, sell
them for you, if need be, arrange
for advance subscriptions to the
next War Loan, and in every waj
advise and assist you.
commonuifiiiLTH
SflWinCS BflllK
OF HU STRALIA
C.B. 1
FIGHTING THE BATTLE OF HEALTH!
k(m\-RAV; ilm
WAR WEAPON
X-RAY FlLM— that modern miracle which
provides diagnostic proof of internal
conditions in the human system.
X-RAY FlLM— valuable in times of peace—
a hundred times more so in war.
We are proud of the substantial part that
Australian - made Kodak X - Ray Films are
playing in the never-ending Rattle of Health.
KODAK
KODAK (A/ASIA) PTY. LTD. •
Branches in all States
Business, Rollery, Etc.
Credit Depends on Industry
The extensive use of bank credit in
financing Australia’s war expenditure
seemed to have led Prime Minister Curtin
into the pre-election belief that similar
use after the war would have the effect
of solving unemployment, trade and
population problems. In any case,
whether he believed it or whether he was
simply selling a Labor election pup, he
took issue with the chairman of the Com-
monwealth Bank board when the latter
issued a warning against the injudicious
use of bank credit in the post-war period,
knight Claude Reading already having
the evidence of war-time inflation before
his eyes.
Although Australian Labor’s handling
of the financial side of the war has
undoubtedly been the weakest in the
British Empire, the financial structure be-
having with limited sobriety only because
of the totalitarian nature of the National
Security Regulations, the people voted
Labor back with a huge majority. The
one-army programme of the Opposition
was clearly unpopular with many wives,
mothers and sweethearts, but it seems
almost as clear that wage-earners
generally accepted their inadequately-
taxed war-time earnings at their swollen
face value, and worried little about the
depreciation in currency that was
accompanying the creation of bank-credit
debt on war wastage —debt that should
have at least partly been wiped out by
better-distributed, heavier taxation.
Has judgment actually flown to the
winds, and has memory of booms and
depressions been numbed by a paralytic
stroke of total war? Can it possibly be
that people regard the present full em-
ployment overemployment, in fact
the high wages and overtime as anything
more than an unhappy circumstance of
war wastage and oversacrifice by one
class and present undersacrifice by
others? Do people really believe that a
war can be paid for without payment,
that present high money wages, etc.,
really spell “prosperity”?
Possibly Australians have not had
previous acquaintance with the full in-
dustrial demands of war. Last time, for
instance, there was little • rationing of
foodstuffs or anything else, and only a
small munitions output, with no call-up
for defence at home or abroad, all man-
power being recruited on a voluntary
basis. The resources of the country were
not exploited to the full, and getting our
production to the scene of war was re-
stricted by shipping limitations. We were
left much more of our own production
for civil use, but man-power wasn’t at
such a premium.
This time we have a war right on our
own doorstep, and such were the defence
deficiencies of the previous 15 years that
there was a great munitions gap to fill,
the filling of which called for the services
of every available man and woman. Un-
employment in the circumstances would
have been a crime. The issue was clear
to everyone: an all-in fight for Australia’s
existence.
The full employment, in spite of the
money it has put into wage-earners’
hands, has been accompanied by an
almost continual reduction in living
standards, employment being directed
to the war job instead of to civilian re-
quirements. There are clothing short-
ages, food and other shortages and
transport deficiencies. The one thing
that has not been in short supply has
been money. There never should have
been any shortage of money. But more
of it should have been in the hands of the
Government and less in the hands of the
people. Wage-earners have been paid
big money —sometimes foolishly big
money—for producing munitions that
cannot be sold to the people for their
consumption (as clothing, butter, tea,
petrol, furniture, houses, etc., could), and
as these munitions are used up in the
destruction of war there is no return to
the Government which pays out the big
wages. Therefore the Government has
incurred huge debt (up to date about
£750 million) in carrying on the war.
The people who have not shouldered the
burden of war by paying adequate taxa-
tion during the war will have to cope
with a huge debt load after it is over.
And because they are “in pocket” to the
extent that they were overpaid and
undertaxed they are prepared to pay
prices for things higher than those to
which even their own inflated wages have
caused prices to go. Hence the ever-
growing danger of disastrous, disrupting
inflation.
The fundamental dangers of the use of
bank credit in war-time are given in the
foregoing in order to make an approach
to the matter of using credit in peace-time
reconstruction. Credit of any kind is
merely “time to pay,” and if evasion of
payment is tried —and a number of
people have the delusion that bank
credit is a means of evasion—someone
has to suffer. Where this evasion occurs
in the national affairs there is usually
currency depreciation or some other in-
direct and inequitable taxation.
Credit expansion being debt expansion,
sober planning obviously should pre-
cede the use of bank credit or any other
kind of credit to finance post-war recon-
struction. If you create debt, you should
create assets. It is the belief here that
any tested and prudently planned, neces-
sary enterprise, with a little benevolent
initial attention from credit-issuing
authorities, will find finance from the
public almost automatically, provided the
national economics are not in disorder
and confidence is not generally on the run.
Enough has been already said to indicate
that any fancied “costless credit” is taxa-
tion, and that enterprises financed by cen-
tral-bank credit which do not prove suc-
cessful result in a waste of public money,
and then become a burden on the people’s
living.
Public works that are failures,
although their failure may for a long
time be concealed from all but prying
eyes in the complex Government
accounts, eventually become a public
burden that has grown to unduly large
proportions because of the very obscurity
of Government finance and lack of direct
investor interest that are peculiar to
Government institutions. When taxation
rates are increased the Treasurer isn’t
going to admit that the reason for their
increase is largely a matter of financing
intlrest and sinking-fund on debts that
were incurred as a result of unwise
expenditure.
But while unwise credit expansion by
Governments must result in national
Budgetary problems eventually, where
debt is raised on an enterprise the pos-
sibilities of which have been carefully
investigated and the establishment carried
out efficiently the debt should result in no
public burden. Any well-planned enter-
prise ought to earn more than the rate of
interest paid on public loans, and in such
cases it should be easy eventually to re-
place Government money with private in-
vestors’ funds it it is so desired. An
illustration of Government credit ex-
pansion that now costs the public
nothing—in fact, it shows the people a
profit—is the Commonwealth’s invest-
ment in 500,001 shares (out of 985,518) in
Amalgamated Wireless. On these in
peace-time it received dividends as high
as 12 p.c. Since the war started divs.
have been 10 p.c. and 8 p.c. The present
public borrowing rate is 2>\ p.c., long-
term. The management of A.W.A. re-
mains with its board of directors, and is
not in the hands of civil servants. An
example of Government failure was
Cockatoo Dock, run by the Government,
and another was the Commonwealth
Shipping Line. Both these undertakings
became burdens on the country’s finances.
If Australia, after the war, is able to
plan new development of the country’s
resources that will meet with a sustained
response from buyers or users of the
goods or services to be made available —
export markets as well as the home de-
mand may have to be considered —it will
be perfectly sound finance to extend such
credit as is necessary for the develop-
ment. But, apart from the initial
financial protection that may be neces-
sary, in many cases it will be advisable
for the Government to withdraw its
financial interest as soon as possible;
After the last war the Commonwealth
Bank advanced £60,000 to help in estab-
lishing the Geelong R.S, and S. Woollen
Co. The venture was successful, divi-
dends were paid to shareholders, and


Position Vacant.
LONGREACH ELECTRICAL
AUTHORITY.
APPLICATIONS, closing Wednesday, -29th
September instant, with the National Service
Officer, Labour Exchange, Longreach, are in-
vited for the position of Chief Electrical
Engineer to the above-mentioned authority.
Salary in accordance with Municipal Officers’
Award —present rate £6lB per annum,, house,
light and power free.
Schedule of conditions of employment may
be obtained on application to the undersigned.
J. C. PEARSON,
Longreach, Shire Clerk.
September 4, 1943.
CYa^ogaS
destroys them quickly and easily.
“IT’S the GAS that KILLS them.”
KILLS WITH A WHIFF
CERTAIN DEATH
TO RABBITS
Pump it in with a Buzacott” Foot Pump Blower—a machine which
makes rabbit destruction a simple, sure and inexpensive operation.
SAVES MANPOWER
*
Obtainable from
all Storekeepers
throughout Australia,
BUZACOTT-WOLSELEY PTY., LTD.,
7-11 MARKET STREET, SYDNEY.
GRAPHiNE
BEARING METALS
TIN BASE: LEAD BASE:
CADMIUM BASE
Photograph taken by permission of
D. Richardson & Sons Pty., Ltd.
Split Swivel Bearing Metalled with
No. 4 Graphine by Babco Bearing
Specialists.
GRAPHINE ANTI - FRICTION ALLOYS
are Bearing Metals of the highest quality
designed to suit all Engineering purposes.
LITERATURE AND EXPERT ADVICE
will be gladly supplied on request.
ELECTROLYTIC REFINING
and SMELTING COMPANY
OF AUSTRALIA PFY. LTD.
(Incorporated in N. S. Wales.)
Works: Port Kembla, N.S.W.
Reg. Office: 25 O'Connell Street, Sydney.
Sales Agents:
Melbourne: H. B. Barker, The E. R. & S. Co. Pty., Ltd.
360 Collins St, Melbourne. ’Phone: M 4381.
Sydney: Austral Bronze Co. Pty., Ltd.
O’Riordan St., Alexandria. Phone: MX 1091.
Brisbane: Bell’s Asbestos & Engineering (Aust.), Ltd.
156 Edward St. ’Phone: 85025.
Adelaide: A. Noble & Sen, Ltd.
79 Grenfell St. ’Phone: Central 2231.
Perth: Bell’s Asbestos & Engineering (Aust.), Ltd.
336-346 Murray St. Phone; 89791.
after a few years rapid reduction of the
central-bank loan commenced.
Any policy of credit-expansion, to be
successful, must, in the main, con-
sider the chance of eventual repay-
ment of loan money out of the
fruits of the enterprises financed.
And bank-credit use should be for short-
term loans only ; public loans and prh
vate investment should constitute the
main capital involved in public works
and private industries. Public savings
must be the basis of establishment of
permanent industrial undertakings, and
stability in the currency and in foreign
exchanges must at all times be given
serious consideration. With an unstable
currency, such as we see in Australia
at present, there can be very little real
confidence in the economic structure, and
eventually there comes a time for a
messy washing-up that does serious
damage in a variety of directions.
A vomiting of bank fcredit over the
Australian economy will not solve any
post-war problems of employment or
industry. Industrial planning and social
conditions will form the real basis of our
progress or regression. Industries, whether
public or private, will have to be able to
earn on a competitive basis, and to do
that they will need to be sanely conceived
and efficiently run. The free splashing-
round of money will by itself have
no more prospect of success than did the
rash investments preceding 1893 or the
outlay on miniature golf courses that en-
tirely misjudged the available market of
indoor golfers 40 years later.
High-handed action by the Common-
wealth Government in taking over private
property for defence purposes has been
suffered in silence by many hundreds of
Australians. It has applied to ships,
motor-cars, tractors, farm property and
dozens of other things, and in too many
cases there has been a marked crude-
ness in the manner of confiscation. The
fact that Government and army officials
pooh-poohed the idea of negotiation
when they had—or thought they had —
such vast powers under the National
Security Regulations looks like landing
the Government into very large bills for
additional compensation that might have
been avoided if some formality of nego-
tiation had accompanied the confiscation.
Negotiated sales, even if accompanied by
veiled threats of confiscation, would
have held good at the negotiated price.
But in the hundreds of cases of confisca-
tion without negotiation a High Court
ruling indicates that the Commonwealth
must pay a fair price, and in the case of
the claim by the owners of a color-printing
press for reimbursement of loss of profits
as well as the value of the press judg-
ment has been given against the Gov-
ernment, it being held that the National
Security Regulation invoked is invalid by
reason of Section 51 (xxxi) of the Con-
stitution, which provides for compensa-
tion on “just terms.” The High Court
bench of five Judges was unanimous in its
decision, and subsequently Dr. Evatt, the
Attorney-General, welcomed the verdict
as “firmly establishing a permanent prin-
ciple of justice.”
* $ * *
The surrender of Italy was reflected in
London and New York share prices, but
in Australia so many of the representa-
tive shares are at their top limit that
there was little room for improvement.
There has been talk of revising the official
“maximum” prices, but nothing has
yet been done. A certain amount of en-
thusiasm entered the Malayan tin share-
market, the idea being, apparently, that
with one Axis partner down the outing
of the other two is drawing nearer ; and
the Tokyo member is at present in con-
trol of the whole of the Burmese, Thai
and Malayan tin-dredging concerns. The
market for “Eastern” tin shares has been
so low since Japan attacked that there
is ample room for rises in some cases
and revision in others. However, sellers
were not responsive to last week’s more
eager inquiries. A thing to be considered
is whether the yardage left to some of
these dredging cos. will be worth the re-
equipment of dredges where the latter
have been sunk or destroyed either by
the British during their retreat or by the
Japanese later on. In several cases yard-
ages or grade were running low, and
where this is so it will be prudent to
value the shares on a cash-in-hand and
break-up value.
Shares in Bulolo Gold Dredging, which
used to operate on the Bulolo River, near
Wau, New Guinea, rose by 6s. 6d. to
70s. 9d. last week following the lifting
of the maximum official price to that
figure. The full extent of the damage
to plant, has not yet been assessed, and
it is unlikely that an early start will be
made on mining operations, in view of
the Government’s attitude towards gold-
mining in the Commonwealth under
present conditions of man-power scarcity.
Placer Development is a large share-
holder in Bulolo, and Placer scrip has a
market at 665. Since work was sus-
pended at Bulolo Placer’s chief income
has been from Pato Consolidated, operat-
ing in Colombia, South America.
* * * *
The directors of Peters American Deli-
cacy Co. announce the carrying by the re-
quisite majority of the motion to exclude
from election to the board ex-employees
who had been “removed or dismissed” or
who had “accepted payment (other than
through the superannuation fund) in con-
sideration wholly or in part of their resig-
nation.”
* * * *
Output of alcohol for fuel purposes in
Australia has now reached 11 million
gallons a year. When the four grain
distilleries being erected by the C.S.R.
get into production output will go up
to 23 million gallons, Mr. Beasley says.
The. greater part of alcohol output is
now distributed as a blend with petrol.
Queensland and N.S.W. are at present
the chief sources of supply, sugar by-
products being the main raw material.
The blend of alcohol and petrol sold
in some States at present is a pass-
able substitute for petrol in engines de-
signed to run on petrol alone.
* * * *
The rural man-power position in N. S.
Wales is in distinct contrast with em-
ployment in manufacturing areas.
Whereas the number of employees in
factories averaged 219,500 in 1938-39,
increasing to 307,600 in March, 1943,
the number of rural employees has fallen
from 41,522 to 29,909. The number of
rural property owners engaged in produc-
tion has dropped from 68,881 to 61,564,
and the number of relatives from 22,997
to 22,592. The total of all full-time
rural workers has fallen from 133,400 to
114,065 —from 126,341 males and 7059
females to 97,903 males and 16,162
females. Those figures apply to per-
manent hands only. Taking in casuals,
between 1939 and March, 1943, the num-
ber of males, permanent and casual, fell
from 166,000 to 115,000, or 30 p.c. The
number of females rose from 8000 to
19,000. The N. S. Wales statistician (S.
R. Carver) points out that the numbers
do not fully reflect the decrease in effec-
tive rural labor, since much of the de-
crease consists of men of military age
who have been replaced by aged men,
youths, women and girls. The reduction
in labor available in the rural industries
has been made noticeable principally in
the wheat, dairying and fruitgrowing in-
dustries, where production has fallen off
noticeably. The latest crop of citrus
fruit was the smallest since 1923-24. The
Australian production of factory butter
was the lowest since 1936-37, apart from
one drought year.
■V * * * ' %
The estimated white population of the
Commonwealth on September 30, 1942,
was 7,184,641. That compares with
6,629,839 at the 1933 census. At Decem-
ber 31, 1940, the capital cities held
3,362,270 of the white population.


THE SERVICE MAN
Lae in a Trap.
“Ek Dum”: The strong right arm
which the Allied command on September
4 and 5 began to fling round the Lae-
Salamaua positions from the east had
tightened appreciably before the week-
end. The Japanese had scarcely resisted
its pressure. They seemed to be taken
completely by surprise.
Lae on the north and Salamaua on the
south face across the Huon Gulf about
20 miles from each other. From the
angle between them the Markham flows
up its valley into the interior. Viewed
from either side, the scenery consists
largely of mountains. From Lae, Sala-
maua’s battered peninsula looks puny be-
side the sawback hills which Australians
and Americans have captured, foot by
foot and steeped in blood.
Lae presents a more placid forefront.
It stands on a shelf rising about 100 ft.
out of the sea, with series of terraces ex-
tending for some distance, hills behind,
high mountains in the distance.
The ground is porous. There is the
usual rain—in September an average of
about 20 inches ; for the year about 194.
But there is the Markham breeze, which
makes the climate more bearable than
most of New Guinea; certainly better
than that of Finschhafen, which the
Germans once used as a capital, or
Bogadjim, on Astrolabe Bay, once
Stephansort, their first capital.
The Markham between Lae and Sala-
maua is not much of a river as tropical
rivers go. It is about a quarter of a mile
wide at the bar, where it is so shallow
that a mule could wade most of the way
and keep his backbone dry.
To the north, however, it tumbles down
through a wide, fertile valley from the
foothills of Finisterre, drawing water
from the Finisterre Range, the Kratkes
and the Rawlinson Mountains.
From Lae one of the few possible
tracks for ordinary wheeled Vehicles runs
up the Markham and cuts across the base
of the Huon Peninsula to Bogadjim and
Madang.
To prevent retreat along these routes
by the enemy it was necessary to act
suddenly and with might. The country
behind is mountainous. The Markham
Valley is studded with emergency landing
grounds. Over the scene on the route to
Madang towers the Finisterre, rising to
13,000 feet. And with powerful forces
in his rear able to send up reserves a
retreating and desperate enemy might
prove a very ugly proposition to handle.
His force in the Salamaua-Lae area is
strong, though not nearly so strong as
has been accepted by correspondents.
However, he seems to have at least 10,000
and perhaps as many again at the out-
side. These, according to the Allied
command, are now in a trap.
Speed the Essence
The scheme of attack was carefully
thought out and well organised. Unlike
the operations of last year and early in
the present year at Buna-Gona, the ex-
pedition was equipped with everything
which the needs of modern war dic-
tated. Instead of facing an enemy in
command of the sea and powerful in the
air, the landing was covered by a pre-
liminary naval bombardment by a strong
force, following several softenings-up by
aircraft.
The first requisite was to move quickly
and close the gap behind Lae and the
routes between Lae and Salamaua and
Lae and Madang and Finschhafen.
This meant assault from three sides —
the continuance of the attack on Sala-
maua, another attack from the Markham
Valley and a third one by landing
parties between Lae and Finschhafen.
This had to be made on small beaches
with several small rivers between the in-
vaders and Lae. The approach from the
Markham Valley was made almost simul-
taneously by two forces —one, Austra-
lians, experienced in the country, who had
worked their way 55 tniles down from the
goldfields ; the other a body of parachute
troops, American, with Australian artillery.
The parachutists were brought down on
one of the big river flats which are com-
mon along the lower Markham, 20 miles
from Lae, behind a smokescreen. They
were equipped with everything a para-
chutist can need, including artillery—a
field gun even splits into loads which
can be parachuted. As hundreds of white
parasols floated to earth, an imposing
sight, the advancing goldfields force
broke into cheers. The united force
brushed aside a Japanese guard, appro-
priated the newly-made aerodrome at
Nazdap and cut the trail to Madang.
Meanwhile the landing force had come
ashore the previous day at Hopoi, 20
miles east of Lae. Needless to say, it
consisted of part of “a famous A.I.F.
division,” with the landing units from the
U.S. Navy and an advance guard from
the independent companies. These A.I.F.
divisions are never identified in the Aus-
tralian zone. In Africa they, like all
British formations engaged in battles like
that of El Alamein and Tunisia, were
named —sometimes with their battalions
or regiments—from the beginning.
Anonymous though they were, the Aus-
tralians were equipped to the last button,
and they worked to a split-second time-
table. The experienced landing parties,
specially trained, went first in the swift
barges to cover the technical forces. Next
followed the heavier barges with the engi-
neers and their gear and the artillery and
vehicular equipment. Finally, the main
body.
In a few minutes the beaches were
organised. A beach control had been es-
tablished by amplifier. The first casualty
station had been set up and the bull-
dozers were pushing off into the timber
fringe, tossing aside palms like matches
and opening up roads.
Dawn saw the margin of the sea piled
high with gear. There had been
no resistance save a sporadic air
attack which sprayed the landing barges
and was quickly driven off, but not before
there were killed and wounded.
The forces closed steadily on Lae, while
reinforcements came in bulk by sea on
the north-east and by air to Nadzab.
The inland force had completed a pon-
toon bridge across the Markham in next
to no time, and their advanced patrols
had passed through Munum and Nara-
kapor, some miles on their road to Lae.
They were close to the inland bastion of
Lae’s defences.
All day the big Douglas air transports
pour men out on the landing strip in
terrific heat.
The only sign of the Japanese in the
Nadzab region up to September 10 seems
to have been in a camp in which the
enemy left his washing damp and un-
claimed on the line.
The north-eastern force headed by the
A.I.F. was reported to have overcome
the difficulties of swamp and jungle and
reached the Busu River, four miles
from Lae, by Thursday. On September
12 it was announced that the river, the
largest in the region next to the Mark-
ham, had been crossed and that the
expeditionaries were now face to face
with the defences of the Malahang aero-
drome, which it was expected that the
enemy would defend. There had been
only two bits of resistance by the Japa-
nese. Nearly all of a force of 100 were
wiped out, and later, at the Busu River,
about 40. On September 12 enemy artil-
lery was firing on the A.I.F.
The whole operation had been set to
music by aircraft. Day after day hapless
Lae absorbed its load of heavy bombs,
which appeared to be smashing it to
pieces. Between the advancing Allied
forces from the Markham and the east
a huge column of smoke rose continually
beside Lae’s outstanding landmark —One
Tree Hill—and across the harbor the per-
spiring troops could hear the continual
crackle of fire, with an occasional gruffer
outburst from the naval guns,
Salamaua’s Hour
The pressure was kept steadily on Sala-
maua up to the week-end, and then the
force was increased. A militia battalion
crossed the flooded Francisco and cap-
tured the airfield. This brought the Aus-
tralians to the base of the isthmus and
the fall of the peninsula seemed only a
matter of a little time. The enemy was
retreating rapidly and had left hundreds
of dead behind. Allied losses were light.
East of Lae the Salamauans could see
another column of smoke in which parts
of Finschhafen were ascending to the
skies under the impetus of a large con-
signment of cannon and m.-g. ammuni-
tion, eked out with bombs.
The enemy from Wednesday onward
showed greater air activity, but he had
no chance. His first sally was an expedi-
tion of 27 bombers and 30 fighters to
Morobe ; but he dropped no bombs be-
fore reaching his objectives, and four of
his fighters were shot down.
Allied bombers ranged up the New
Guinea coast and across to Rabaul, aim-
ing particularly at the enemy’s sea trails-
port and aerodromes, and sinking many
barges. The same policy was being fol-
lowed in the Solomons.
In other sections the usual routine raids
and reconnaissances were carried out. On
September 6 21 Japanese fighters raided
Darwin, apparently to protect a single
reconnaissance bomber. The R.A.A.F. s
Spitfires shot down five and damaged
and possibly destroyed nine others for a
loss of three machines.
Italy Surrenders.
“Ek Dum”: Events proved that the
appeal of Algiers Radio to the* Italians
to receive General Montgomery’s Eighth
Army as liberators, as their forefathers
had received Garibaldi, was not pointless.
When General Montgomery’s British
and Canadians went ashore along the
Messina Strait Italy was on the point
of formal unconditional surrender, nego-
tiations for which had begun in the first
week in August. . ;
The same morning (Sept. 3) armistice
terms were signed. They were announced
as the Allies landed at Salerno on Sept.
8. The Italian Government agreed to
surrender all territory, harbors, for-
tifications and airfields, and warships and
aircraft and supplies were to be placed
at the Allies’ disposal for the purpose of
carrying on the war against Germany.
Merchant marine ships were also requisi-
tioned for Allied use. Corsica was to
be given up. Prisoners were to be handed
over and not to be transferred to Ger-
many. The Italians themselves were to
use their best endeavors to help drive the
Germans out of Italy.
All Italian forces were to be called
immediately to Italy from foreign fields.
Allied military government, as in Sicily,
was to assume authority wherever the
victors thought necessary.
The totality of the surrender was
brought home to the Italians .by the voice
of Admiral Cunningham ordering all
Italian ships, naval and merchant, into
Allied or naval harbors, or to the bottom
if they could not be saved from German
clutches in any other way.
Italian garrisons in Greece and Crete
and the Balkans heard orders from
General Maitland Wilson, commanding
the British Ninth and Tenth Armies in the
Middle East, given as if he were Italian
Commander-in-Chief —which in his own
zone he was. No doubt the restive Bul-
garians heard them and remembered that
their king, newly and mysteriously dead,
had been married to an Italian princess.
And the Hungarians very evidently heard
them uneasily, too.
So did Hitler, He broke a silence
which had endured since March to speak
a panegyric on “that great and good man”
Mussolini which sounded like a funeral
oration, and to threaten the Italians with
a cold savagery.
Listeners to his speech noted that he
did not speak with the sound and fury
of his early war days. Actually he
sounded full of spiteful anger. His
preparations in Germany showed how
little he was prepared to take his beating
lying down.
General Montgomery’s establishment
of a firm and spreading bridgehead in
Calabria had been swiftly followed by
other movements.
By the week-end, seven days after the
surrender, there had been further land-
ings, while the Allied air forces fanned
out, battering objectives and particularly
airfields and communications held by the
Germans.
Salerno Falls
Salerno, 30 miles south of Naples, was
seized on Sept. 8 by British troops and
the U.S. Fifth Army, under the joint
command of Lieut.-General Clark (U.S.),
after a fierce battle for bridgeheads in
which naval forces beat down attacking
German tanks.
Salerno is strategically important. It
is a port of about 60,000 people. Its
capture cuts the Germans opposing
General Montgomery from railway com-
munication with the north. It is the best
point from which to outflank Naples
and make a pincer movement against it
from the land. The Allies already had
occupied Ischia and other islands facing
the Bay of Naples, the stepping-stones
for attack on it from the sea.
The Drive to Bari
Moreover, Salerno is opposite Bari on
the Adriatic coast, one of the two great-
est cities and ports of southern Italy, and
a British Eighth Army force, backed by
the Navy, had seized Taranto and turned
it into a British port.
Further forces had rushed across the
Italian heel to take over Brindisi, 40 miles
away, and north-easterly to seize Bari.
The Eighth Army, having met little
resistance, on September 11 was in con-
trol of virtually the whole of the moun-
tainous toe of Italy,
Next came news (unconfirmed offi-
cially) of a fresh landing at the mouth
of the Tiber and at Civita Vecchia, one
of the main ports of Rome further north,
which is the best point of approach to
the coastal road and railway and to the
great series of highways and railways
that debouch into Rome along the
general course of the Tiber from the
north. It was also said that Allied troops
already had landed in Corsica and Sardinia.
The Enemy in Rome
For all this successful activity the news
that the Italian Government, headed by
the Royal family, had set up new head-
quarters in Palermo, showed how strong
was the German control over Italy.
Italian divisions guarding Rome surren-
dered virtually without resistance. An
enemy communique declared that the
capitulation covered an area of 30 miles
round the city, and added :
The German Army will take over the
protection of Vatican City.
Martial law was declared at once by
Marshal Kesselring.
It was stated that the Germans would
not occupy Rome itself. It was not stated
what course would be taken if a mobile
fight were to bring the “defenders” to the
limits of the city—whether or not they
would enter Rome to save themselves.
The general plap suggested a diabolical
scheme of producing headaches for Allied
commanders.
What, for instance, would be the action
of an Allied commander who, approach-
ing within artillery range of St. Peter’s,
found the Germans “protecting” it
against his friendly advance to the borders
of neutral territory by shelling him to bits
from the Vatican Gardens?
News of Musso.
On September 11 the enemy announced
that 200,000 Italian troops had surren-
dered and that Mussolini had been freed
(by “parachutists, security service men
and Black Guards”), Musso. having been
“imprisoned by a clique of traitors, and
a Fascist Government set up outside Italy.
It was the first that had been heard ot
Mussolini since his fall on July 25.
In the north the Germans had wasted
no time in securing control of all defen-
sive approaches below the Brenner Pass.
The strategic cities, industrial and other-
wise, of Piedmont and Lombardy were
immediately placed under military occu-
pation, along with Genoa, which is the
gate of the Italian Riviera.
The main northern defence line had
been pinned down on the other side or
the north by the seizure of the naval
ports of Fiume and Trieste, and between
the Gulf of Genoa and the Gult ot
Venice all strategic points and communi-
cation lines were quickly in enemy hands.
From the Venetian Gulf, just north ot
Trieste, a curious fertile plain runs
almost the whole width of Italy, score
with many rivers carrying snow waters
from the tremendous mountains wmcn
fence it in on three sides. The Po an
its many tributaries run right through it
centre like a skeleton. It is cut off on the
south by the Ligurian Apennines and in-
terminable Alps raise their snow peaks ai
along its north.
It is a position difficult of access when
strongly defended, but its walls have their
weak points, which depend on control o
the sea, which the Allies possess.
In any case its importance is minimised
by the fact that Allied control now ex-
tends the whole length of the Mediter-
ranean, and that there are many points
of attack on which it may pay them to
concentrate with maximum energy, so
soon as they have cleared Italy as tar
north as the Arno and Rimini.
What Surrender Means
The salient points of what seems to
have been accomplished are:
(1) With Corsica, the Allies are a little more
than 100 miles from Genoa, 200 miles from
Milan and Turin and 150 miles from Toulon
and Marseilles. With command of the air tney
can soon make those cities liabilities to me
Germans. The parts of occupied France mos
remote from Germany—those on the Bay ot
Biscay—are within easy reach of Mbed bombe ,
and the Germans will have to cstnblish a iong
coastline defence. Even Bordeaux is only
m (2) The* 900 of Adriatic and western
Greek coasts are liable to Allied landings al
any time—Greece is within sight of Italy across
the Strait of Otranto. The whole width o
Greece comes within long-distance fi e h
range. Salonika is 200 mdes. from the Greek
heel. The whole of the capitals of the Balka
come within easy fighter range. ; nto
(3) If the Allies succeed in breal f ing h
northern Italy, Munich too comeswuhnreach
of long-distance fighters and hght bombcrs
it is only 180 miles air line from Venice, the
Danube, y that vital artery which carries
Germany’s Rumanian oil and much of ts mil
tary stores for the Russian front, is as cios
to Venice as Britain is to Cologne. • pv j ta u] v
(4) Crete and the Dodecanese must mevita y
fall to the Allies soon. Athens /pLnwill
fighter reach of Crete. The whole /Egea
soon become untenable for the enemy-
nos Imbros and Samothrace might beto
long see British uniforms again bound on
drive to Bulgaria, either by / h^u^J er mediate
by Dedeagatch or one of the mtermeaiaic
roads over the Rhodope. _ .
The war is entering its decisive phases,
though they may be long.
"Good Afternoon, Admiral."
“The era of Britain’s sea power, is °Zce
Aircraft and submarines , ha f of
fleets into mere obsolete toys in th . t
rich democracies. They no longer are important
instruments in decisive warlar _Xdo// Hitler.
After Italy had surrendered and its
capital and ports were in process of be...*


Personal and Missing Friends.
WILL MISS CONSTANCE ADELAIDE
WHITE, formerly of Croydon Road, Hurstville,
Sydney, or anybody knowing of her where-
abouts, please communicate immediately with
the Manager, the NEW ZEALAND INSUR-
ANCE COMPANY, LIMITED, 79-81 Pitt
Street, Sydney, New South Wales?
Divorce Notices.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES—In Divorce.
TO CHARLES HARRY TIMMINGS late of
Bateman’s Bay in the State of New South
Wales.—TAKE NOTICE that MABEL
BRENDA TIMMINGS has filed a Petition for
Divorce No. 1094 of 1943 on the ground of
desertion without just cause or excuse for
three years and upwards If you wish to de-
fend you may enter an appearance at the
Divorce Office Supreme Court King Street
Sydney by the Bth November 1943 and obtain
a copy of the petition without charge from
N. C. ROWLES Solicitor 92 Pitt Street Sydney.
—(l.s.) C. K. BODY, Registrar in Divorce.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES—In Divorce.
TO ERNEST STANLEY PUTSEY late of
Station Street Newtown. —TAKE NOTICE that
FLORENCE IDA PUTSEY has filed a Peti-
tion for Divorce No. 1764 of 1943 on the ground
of desertion without just cause or excuse for
three years and upwards. If you wish to de-
fend you may enter an appearance at the
Divorce Office Supreme Court King Street Syd-
ney by the Bth November 1943 and obtain a
copy of the petition without charge from N. C.
ROWLES Solicitor 92 Pitt Street Sydney.—
—(l.s.) C. K. BODY, Registrar in Divorce.
CD
am
rescued for it by “the Anglo-Saxon
enemy,” a procession of Italian ships,
beautiful in their paintwork, began to
race for British-controlled ports, particu-
larly Malta—Malta which had been
bombed over 3000 times, or an average
of three times a day for the 1000-day
period of its travail. Out of the eight
battleships, which the Italians had or had
built since the beginning of the war, four
steamed into the pink harbor of Valetta,
which in contours, with its many
“creeks,” reminds one of a miniature of
Port Jackson.
They were good warships, little scarred
for the most part; a powerful navy in
themselves, a great addition to Allied
naval resources—which Admiral Cunning-
ham says will release considerable sea
strength for the Pacific war.
From Taranto in the Italian heel came
the old 23,600-ton Andrea Doria and
Giulio Cesare, with two light cruisers and
a destroyer. All the way they had been
under British naval and air cover.
From Spezia, far up the west, came
the new 35,000-ton Vittorio Veneto, look-
ing in better shape than after Matapan,
and her sister ship the Littorio —these
carry nine 15-inch and 12 six-inch guns— ■
with six cruisers and five destroyers. The
German rats had, however, been at this
fleet. Roma, the newest ship of the Lit-
torio class, had been sunk by the Luft-
waffe before the Allied umbrella could
be pulled over it, though many of the
crew were declared to have been rescued.
Other ships, remnants of a fleet which,
apart from battleships, boasted 29
cruisers, 75 destroyers and about 90 sub-
marines when war opened, made for the
Balearics and Gibraltar. In all 42 had
surrendered up to September 12, and 30
were in Valetta.
All over the seas Italian submarines
were “popping up” like blown whales, and
Italian merchantmen were hurrying to
safety or to the bottom. One scuttled
outpost liner of 18,000 tons, Conte Verdi,
dropped into the slime of the Whangpoo
River at Shanghai, where she will seri-
ously embarrass traffic.
These widespread activities, so unusual
to Italian warships, which for long had
been accustomed to skulking in harbors
and night-sneaking along coasts, took
place on the curt order of a little naval
officer in white rig, who finished his war
in the control of the Mediterranean where
he started it —at Malta—with a curt in-
timation that the Italian squadron was
now sheltering under Malta’s guns.
Cunningham’s War
Admiral Andrew Cunningham has a
unique record in the Mediterranean war.
He is the one man in the supreme Allied
command who has ’endured throughout
it, whose reputation has never been ques-
tioned. He is by training, both techni-
cally and geographically, a Mediterranean
man and an officer trained in the Medi-
terranean and in destroyers, which are
the Middle Sea’s prime weapon in the
kind of war which has been fought there.
Since he roved Mgre Nostrum in the
last war in the old Scorpion he had been
captain of H.M.S. Rodney, one of
Britain’s two 16-inch ships, Commodore
of the Royal Naval Barracks at Chatham
and Deputy Chief of the Naval Staff.
But when war had loomed in Abyssinia
he had found himself at Alexandria, rear-
admiral commanding destroyer flotillas,
and when Hitler struck he had already
been two months at Malta as C.-in-C. of
the Mediterranean Fleet.
So little was happening in the Medi-
terranean that most of his ships were
taken for other seas. In November, 1939,
the C.-in-C. took his flag ashore in Malta
for want of a fleet to fly it in.
It was not till midnight on June 10,
1940, that Italy declared war. Immediate
events showed that the admiral had not
grown rusty. At dawn on June* 11 he was
at sea with the battleships Warspite and
Malaya, the cruisers Sydney, Orion, Nep-
tune, Liverpool and Gloucester, the
carrier Eagle—a sturdy old bird—and a
destroyer screen.
It is indicative of the fierceness of the
naval war which has been fought that
none of the cruisers remain save Liver-
pool and Orion, and the old Eagle is on
the bottom. Most of the destroyers, also,
are no more.
If Cunningham Had Lost
More than any man he brought about
the conquest of the Mediterranean, the
surrender of Italy, the change of the
whole complexion of the war.
Once the Mediterranean had been
closed the enemy could have taken over
Africa and its resources of labor and
materials; could have conquered Iran
and Iraq and their oilfields ; could have
filled the Indian Ocean with submarines
operating from African and Asiatic
bases ; could have struck at India and
Singapore long before India and Singa-
pore were ready ; could have brought the
war to the shores of this country long
before Japan struck and found its de-
fences only, in a primary stage. In all
these wide fields Britain could have done
nothing. Loss of the Mediterranean
would have intensified her own struggle.
Russia, too, would probably have been
beaten but for Cunningham’s operations
of 1940-41. Had he failed, Britain and
America would have had all their work
cut out in the Atlantic and would have
been unable to give aid through Mur-
mansk.
Triumph at Malta
All these things may be forgotten. But
no doubt they were remembered with
satisfaction by the little man in white
uniform who stood with General Eisen-
hower at Malta to see the Italian Fleet
come in flying black armistice pennants,
led by Wafspite and Valiant (whose pet
canary had hatched the songsters Pola
and Zara during Matapan), with a single
British officer aboard wielding the
authority of the conqueror.
The general said it was “a sight. That’s
the way you see them in reviews in the
movies.”
No man who had brought it about
could have viewed it without emotion.
But the public reaction of Admiral Cun-
ningham, Nelson’s direct successor—for
there has been no fighting master of Mare
Nostrum since Nelson’s day—was in the
R.N. tradition.
The Italian admiral and his flag
officers were piped down the line as
their barge passed. They were received
with full naval honors at the quayside.
Admiral Cunningham met the defeated
foe at his door as he would have met a
guest. His greeting was characteristic:
Good afternoon, Admiral. How do you
do? Sit down.
Afterwards they were photographed
together.
Cunningham allowed himself only
one touch of emotion as the fleet had
come in sight:
We have met some of these twice before.
I am glad to see Warspite leading them in.
In Warspite he had opened his sweeps
at dawn on June 11, 1940; in Warspite
he had led the saving of the garrisons of
Crete and Greece; in Warspite he had
chased the Italians almost finally off the
Middle Sea on March 28, 1941.
At the Crossroads in Russia.
“Ek Dum”; The Russian situation is
reaching its crucial stage. The Ger-
mans have been steadily in retreat on
two sectors—-that directly above the Azov
Sea and in the Kursk-Konotop salient —
but fierce fighting has failed to dislodge
them in the Isyum sector and on the
Bryansk perimeter.
In the Azov sector their screen con-
tinued to fall back with much the same
movement which yielded Rostov and
Voroshilovgrad and the towns between at
the beginning of the year. Makeevka,
Stalino, Krasnoarmersk and Grishino,
and cities to the east of them, with the
Donbas port of Mariupol, on the Azov
Sea, were in Russian hands by the end
of the week.
In the Kursk drive rapid progress had
been made, though not so rapid as had
been claimed the week before when
Moscow Radio had announced the cap-
ture of “the rail and district centre of
Chernigov.” The Russian advance on Sep-
tember 10 apparently had reached Bach-
mach, to the west of Konotop, on a wide
front about 70 miles east of Chernigov.
Bachmach is described as a rail centre
of outstanding importance, though why
it is difficult to see —it was overrun with-
out having its name mentioned during
the German advances westward, and the
capture of Konotop had already nullified
the importance of the railways in its par-
ticular zone.
According to “Red Star,” the town was
held by several veteran German divisions
and the struggle for it, which lasted two
days, was one of extermination.
“A State Approaching Collapse”
Reuter’s man at Moscow declared that
the German defence system in the Kiev-
Chernigov area was in a state approach-
ing collapse. Another correspondent re-
ported on September 10 that “the Rus-
sians, after capturing Bachmach, have
scored a clean break-through east of Kiev
and have left large German forces cling-
ing dazedly to fragments of their shat-
tered defence lines.... The enemy is fight-
ing a hopeless battle unaware that the
main body of the German army has fled
towards Priluki.”
On September 10 the situation south
of the Konotop-Kursk salient was re-
ported to be as follows:
The Russians were attacking Nazhin
and Priluki, screen towns of Kiev and
about 80 miles from that city, which is
beyond the Dnieper. The spearhead of
the Russian advances in the Kharkov
region had progressed very few miles
since the capture of the city, but slight
progress had been made in the Isyum
sector with the capture of Barvenkova.
The Russians here were still 25 to 30
miles east of the points which their spear-
heads reached last February before
counter-attacks pushed them- back to the
Donetz.
Along the shores of the Azov Sea the
enemy front was 75 to 80 miles further
west than it was 10 days previously. The
drive beyond Stalino was about 80 miles
from the Dnieper.
In the Bryansk-Smolensk sector, be-
tween Bryansk and Roslavl, the capture
of Ludinov was reported, with a Russian
advance of about five miles.
“Red Star” on September 10 de-
clared :
This is not a mere battle. It is the ex-
pulsion of the enemy from Russia. For the
first time we can feel the beginning of the end.
The communiques do not go so far,
though Stalin in his orders of the day
dealing with the fall of Stalino and of
Konotop and Bachmach described the
results of the battles which preceded
them as “major victories.”
Light Material Losses
Generally speaking, all through the
week the Russian official statements re-
ported advances along the fighting fronts
of from five to ten miles per day, usually
with the reoccupation of dozens of
localities. Enemy resistance was said to
be fierce, though this is scarcely consis-
tent with the speed and type of advances.
The even nature of the German retreat
along the whole front suggests that the
enemy is still in control of his move-
ments, particularly since he has been able
to remain in his larger objectives long
enough to reduce them to charred rubble
before he abandoned them, flooding
mines, blowing, up water and sanitary
arrangements, factories and bridges and
gutting buildings.
No claims to heavy casualties accom-
pany Russian accounts, as they did daily
in the winter campaign.
Against the hundreds of tanks and
’planes reported as destroyed every day
in the battles of July, Moscow reported
on September 8 the destruction of only
27 enemy tanks and 30 aircraft. This
on a 325-mile front on which four fierce
battles were reported to be in progress.
A two months’ total of prisoners was said
to be 38,000,
German communiques have said little.
The enemy version on September 10 was:
The battle in the Donetz Basin continues
with bitter fluctuating fighting. We re-
pelled numerous attacks south of Isyum,
also in the Kharkov area, where the Rus-
sians lost many tanks. The Russians re-
sumed unsuccessful attacks near Konotop,
the Desna River area and Kirov.
The Russians undoubtedly believe that
they are on the verge of a crushing vic-
tory. Indeed, claims made on their behalf
credit them with having won not merely
the Russian war but the Mediterranean
war.
Moscow and Italy
Moscow Radio began a campaign to
this effect on the day after the surrender
of Italy was announced. Its announcer
in the English “session” heard on Sept.
9 in Sydney late in the evening remarked
that it was no accident that the Allied
landings in Italy coincided with the great
Russian victories of 1942-43 ; that the
victories of the Allies in Africa were
made possible by the great Russian vic-
tory of Stalingrad ; that, with the effec-
tual defeat of the German armies in the
Russian winter campaign. Hitler could
give no help whatever to the Italians, and
that the overwhelming blows which the
Russians struck at Orel and Byelgorod
“threw Mussolini from the saddle” be-
cause they compelled Hitler to leave his
Allies completely at the mercy of fate.
The broadcast end.ed without congratu-
lation to the British-American forces on
their Mediterranean victories but with
another series of intimations to the effect
that a Second Front was needed in the
west. “Pravda” and “Izvestia” took the
same line, and Russian delegates to a
trade-union conference in Britain stormily
demanded an immediate Second Front in
north-western France. They were severely
snubbed by “Sir” Walter Citrine, who
reminded them that their country was
not fighting Japan.
On the evening of Friday, September
10, in giving world-wide war news, Mos-
cow made no reference to the Mediter-
ranean campaign and to the widespread
landings of Allied troops, though it men-
tioned in a sentence that an order had
been issued by General Maitland Wilson
to Italians in the Balkans to lay down
their arms. There was no reference either
to fighting in the Pacific. Some time was,
however, devoted to disturbances in Den-
mark, Norway and the Netherlands
It would be a calamity if division
occurred among the Allies at this stage;
but it takes all parties to maintain a
friendship or an alliance. So far the
attitude of the British-American Govern-
ments and public towards the Russians
has been generous and applauding. Sup-
plies have not only been poured out
for Russia, but taken to Russia’s door at
cruel cost —on the Murmansk route alone
two British cruisers and ten destroyers
were lost. Russian correspondents have
been allowed the same privileges as
British correspondents on British fighting
fronts —that of viewing battles as they
take place. The only correspondents who
have been allowed to see Russian battles
have been Russians. Military attaches
are in the same position. Americans
who have brought supplies to save Russia
at a moment of dire peril have not been
allowed to drive them over the Russian
border.
Moreover, an official Russian Govern-
ment military spokesman declared over
an official Moscow station a few days
ago, and the Russian Foreign Office cen-
sors passed his statement for world pub-
lication, that the Allies had been invited
many times to send troops to the Russian
front, but had made no attempt to do so.
In a British official statement this was
denied. Above all, Russia maintains its
fisheries and non-aggression agreements
with Japan. Apropos, Tokyo Radio,
while bitterly attacking the Italians for
surrendering to Britain and America, said
no word against the Italian surrender to
Russia, which was associated with Britain
and the U.S.A. in General Eisenhower’s
announcement.
In brief:
Last week there was heavy bombing of Bel-
gian and French coastal railway centres from
Ghent to Rouen, together with attacks on
Orleans, the most important rail junction for
traffic to Bordeaux. Munich and Mannheim,
depots for traffic to the north Italian front,
were also blasted. Observers in the south of
England saw huge landing exercises by British
troops in the Channel. At Munich 16 bombers
were lost. Mannheim-Ludwigshafen absorbed
1500 tons of bombs in 45 minutes. U.S. heavy
aircraft carried out long-distance raids on south-
west Germany on Sept. 6, losing 33 Fortresses
and a Thunderbolt.
* * * »
From May to the end of August in Burma
R.A.F. strafing machines destroyed 43 steamers,
76 barges, 1620 river sampans, 683 other craft,
18 factories, 45 railway engines and 510 wagons.
Raiding continues on a wide scale, and the
Japanese report heavy British activity along the
border.
* * * *
The Japanese appear to be far from happy
about their “Co-prosperity” sphere. The Vice-
Minister for War, declared last week that Japan
would “withdraw to a tight inner ring of de-
fences protecting East Asia.” He asked why
the army and navy should continue to hold
“unimportant islands on the end of long com-
munication lines.” Why indeed?
* ♦ * ♦
Berlin claimed on September 9 that an am-
phibious force had landed on Spitzbergen and
destroyed large military and industrial objec-
tives.


How to make your Gillette Blades last longer
\
m
%
h
Unwrap Carefully...
do not tear out of envelope...
• So carefully is the Gillette Blade packed that
the cutting edges are not permitted to touch
even the inner wrapper, as you will see by
holding it up to the light.
• If you will take equal care in handling it, you
can get more shaves per blade.
TAKE CARE OF YOUR
GILLETTE
BLADES
Help by saving, save by buying Savings Bonds or Certificates
Gordons
Gin
TANQUERAY GORDON & CO. LTD.
LONDON GIN DISTILLERS
LONDON ENGLAND
SPORTING NOTIONS
(Conducted by "PILOT")
There was no lack of money at Tatter-
sail’s meeting at Randwick on Saturday,
the tote turnover being £82,742 against
£49,072 on the corresponding day last
year. Heavy rain started shortly before
the running of the Tramway Handicap,
and the soft track told greatly against
some horses during the afternoon.
In the Tramway Handicap Hall Stand
and Lagoon led to the straight entrance,
but, though opposite the leger the former
looked as if he might see it out, Dewar
(Munro) fairly ran over him in the last
half-furlong. Prince, always in a posi-
tion that gave him a place chance, ran
third, but not far ahead of Gold Salute,
who is not yet a “has-been.” Modula-
tion and Magi, who headed the Epsom
quotations last week, never threatened
danger. On top of showers the previous
night and in the morning, heavy rain
just before and while the horses were on
their way to the post made the track so
slow that the time was 1.30}, against
Freckles’s Randwick record of 1.22 for
seven furlongs.
Chatham’s Choice (Foley), who never
appeared better, led throughout the
Spring Handicap, A furlong from home
Gauntlet looked like making a race of it,
but Chatham’s Choice was doing the
better when he passed the winning-post a
little over a length ahead of the chestnut.
Eureka’s third was not of much account,
though he made up some leeway in the
straight, and Lambeth’s fourth made him
better worth following at coming meet-
ings.
Tribal (J. Duncan) ran away with the
Chelmsford Stakes. In front soon after
barrier-rise, he shot out at the five fur-
longs post to lead by six lengths at the
half-mile. Though Katanga ran into
second place entering the straight, Tribal
did not give him a look-in in the run
home. Rimveil was a moderate third,
and Main Topic’s fifth was not an effort
to cause his Metropolitan backers to be
on specially good terms with them-
selves. Falcon Knight did just well enough
to give him a chance in a handicap for
horses of his own age.
Three-year-old Betza (Gollogly) fin-
ished strongly to beat a big field in the
Novice Handicap, a rank outsider in Wee
Laddie narrowly defeating Gryphon for
second place. Extend, who showed a
lot of pace, was first into the straight
and ran fourth, while Kookaburra, who
was expected to be suited by the dis-
tance, commenced well, but dropped out
in the straight. Bright Spot was an-
other who found the trip beyond him,
and did not do as well as others of the
unplaced division in Cast Well and Royal
Result. Betza is a three-year-old half-
brother, by Beau Pere, to a good sprinter
in Ensign.
The heavy going was to Warlock’s
(Howard) liking in the Three-year-old
Handicap. Taking charge soon after the
start, he led round the turn from Code,
Rebekah Degree, Enthuse and High-
gate, and gave nothing a chance in the
run to the winning-post. The minor-place
getters were Enthuse and Denton, and
nearest them were Scene, Cremorne and
Castle Frontenac, but all well beaten.
Warlock, who is raced on lease by his
trainer, E. F. Walker, is by Genetout
from La Caparole, both imported from
France. This was Warlock’s first win,
but last season he scored five minor plac-
ings in seven starts. Denton, who was
third, has been placed seven times with-
out winning.
Kiaree justified the strong support ac-
corded him for the Welter Handicap,
Edigram had a turn at the front, but
Kiaree was a winner all the way over the
last half-mile. Edigram and Valiant
Garde were nearest him at the straight
entrance, and the latter beat Edigram
for second. Rylstone ran fairly, but
neither Nightbeam nor Haripur ever uat-
tered his backers. Queenslander Ballot,
though not fancied, ran respectably.
There was a little money for Lady Hamil-
ton, but, like some of the other runners.
s fi e did not shine in the heavy going.
* * * *
Sun Valley enhanced his Caulfield Cup
prospects by winning the Memsie Stakes,
first w.f.a. race of the season, at Fleming-
ton on Saturday. He unwound a sterling
finish to defeat Tranquil Star by a head
after the latter had attempted to lead all
the way. Sun Valley will meet Tranquil
Star on 111 b. better terms in the Cup,
but doubts exist concerning his stamina.
He has been placed at 12 furlongs, but
has not won beyond 10 furlongs. H.
Badger, who has been out of the saddle
since he was involved in a car smash
early in the year, expects to be fit enough
to take the Cup mount on Sun Valley.
Cup hopes that disappointed in the
Memsie included Great Britain, who
weakened to finish fourth, and Lawrence,
nominal favorite until Saturday for the
Derby.
Sirius impressed most among the Vic-
toria Derby colts which raced on Satur-
day. Resuming after a spell, his third
to Sun Valley and Tranquil Star was a
really good performance. Martial Law,
from the same stable as Lawrence, drew
attention to his Derby and Melbourne
Cup prospects by winning the second
Warriston Handicap, in which David’s
Last, favorite, weakened to finish seventh.
David’s Last, however, impresses as sure
to improve. Brazen Jester, a gelding, and
therefore ineligible for the Derby, out-
stayed Leading Man and Precept, both
of whom should improve, in the first
Warriston Handicap. Brazen Jester was
scratched from the Cups because it was
considered he was “too frail” for such
strenuous races.
Colonus, Melbourne Cup winner last
year, broke down a couple of strides
from the post and was beaten half a neck
by Anthony in the Doona Handicap. He
fractured a sesamoid bone in his off fore-
leg, and at the time of writing every
endeavor was being made to save him
for the stud. Anthony is engaged in the
Cups, but looks to be overshadowed by
his stable-mate Skipton. Cup candidates
in Mating Call and the greatly-improved
Illyrian won the divisions of the Healher-
lie Handicap, Illyrian surviving a protest
lodged on behalf of Wallace James. Tara-
moa, Australian Cup winner and fancied
Melbourne Cup candidate, did well to
run third to Mating Call, but Pantheist,
after trying to lead all the way, weakened
into fifth position in the same race. Queen
Baccha, medium of a successful plunge
in the Whittier Handicap, six furlongs, is
engaged in the Cups, but has to be taken
on trust as a stayer.
* * * *
In an Epsom connection Dewar s form
at Randwick on Saturday was outstand-
ing. Allowing that the soft going favored
him, he made light of 8.12 —his Epsom
weight—and will meet the other place-
getters, Hall Stand and Prince, 41b. and
11b. better respectively. It must not be
overlooked that Dewar has shown good
form on firm as well as soft tracks. The
slippery going made excuse possible for
Magi and Modulation, but, though it is
too soon to condemn them, different con-
ditions will have to do a lot to enable
either to turn the tables on Dewar. A
firmer track should give Hall Stand a
chance of seeing out the mile, and Prince
may improve a little, while there is, of
course, the possibility of a larger field
telling against Dewar, who is not a bril-
liant beginner. At present, however, it
does look as if he should again prove
his superiority to those he beat last week.
It is said Munro will again be on
Dewar if he is not wanted for Katanga.
Well, the chances do not favor the latter
being a runner, even though he beat
Yaralla at six furlpngs. He has 9.8, the
Colin Stephen Stakes the same day looks
easier for him, and the work and racing
he will do before the 16th of next month
are unlikely to improve his dash. Tribal
completely outpaced him on Saturday,
and even if Katanga had not carried 71b.
penalty it is improbable the result would
have been different.
Next to Dewar there was more in
Kiaree’s run than that of any other Epsom
candidate. Admittedly he did not meet
a field ur) to Epsom standard, but he
could not have won in much easier
fasmon. Rimveil’s third in the Chelms-
ford was a fair effort, but improve-
ment will be necessary to enable him to
win the Epsom with only a pound less
than when fourth last year.
Randwick running did not point to
anything that competed as having a
specially good Metropolitan chance. Main
Topic’s Chelmsford effort was not out
of the ordinary, but it is some excuse for
him that, on a heavy track, he had 91b.
more than his Metropolitan weight; and
though Gauntlet was second with 7.8 in
the Spring Handicap that was only 31b.
more than he will have to carry in the
more important race, in which the extra
two furlongs may bother him. To win a
Metropolitan Abspear will need to do a
lot better with 9.3 than in the Spring
Handicap, in which he carried that
weight, and there seems little hope for
Amberspear,
* * * *
The Prime Minister’s personal attitude
towards restriction of racing may not
have changed, but as he is submitting the
views of racing bodies to the new Federal
Cabinet the odds favor raceless Saturdays
being dropped in the near future.
* * * *
Big prices were a feature of the Lexing-
ton sales last month. H. Knight gave
$75,000 (£A22,800) for the successful sire
Grand Slam, and W. Helis paid $66,000
(£A20,075) for a yearling by Blenheim
11. This was the highest figure for a
yearling in America since 1928.
* * * *
In July J. A. Robertson, one of
America’s leading riders for the past 17
years, decided to retire consequent on a
heavy fall. He won 1865 races, his
mounts earning a total of $3,178,842
(approximately (£A963,397). His best
year was 1931, when he accounted for
$330,765 (about £A100,600) in prize-
money. The New York Turfwriters’
Association chose him as 1942’s best
American rider.
Miscellaneous
The V.F.L. semi-final, Richmond v.
Essendon, was played in unpleasant
squally weather. Aided by the wind, the
’Dons whipped away to an early lead, but
Tigers recovered and only four points
separated them at half-time. Superior in
the rucks, the ’Dons wore the Tigers down
and retained the lead to win 13.16 to 9.17.
Richmond and ’Roy will clash in the
final, the winners to meet Essendon.
Rugby Union enthusiasts who witnessed
the final, East versus West, got their
moneyJs worth. It was a fierce forward
tussle mroughout and anybody’s game
till the final bell. East’s skipper Newton
dribbled the ball 40 yards through the
mire for Maloney to gather and score
the try which gave his side victory, 11-8.
Manly and East play the decider next
Saturday.
*** . *
Not as fast as he was in his most active
days, but still a powerful puncher, Ron
Richards beat Ritchie Sands in seven
rounds at Sydney Stadium. Sands, a
young, energetic glove-thrower, attacked
continuously, but he could not cope with
Richards’s solid straight lefts, which drew
copious gore from nose and mouth, and
an inside right counter dropped Sands
just before the bell in the third. A long
right swing to the head rattled Richards
in the fifth. His knees soon stopped
knocking, and more straight lefts had
Sands very sick in the sixth. Sands sur-
prised by attacking in the seventh, but
his chin was wide open to a terrific right,
and he was groggy when Joe Wallis
stopped it.
Leichhardt (Sydney) has a new boxer
at last. His name is Stan Wilkes, and
after being floored twice by Jimmy Dun-
dee he came to light in the sixth with
a straight right which collided with the
old-stager’s chin. Down went Dundee tot
the full, count, and home went the
“sports,” some praising the novice he
is a lightweight —and some marvelling.
FOR ROSEHILL.
(Before acceptances.)
By “PILOT.”
Encourage Handicap: Gryphon,
1 ; Extend, 2; Betza or Domi-
neer, 3.
Theo Marks Stakes: Hesione, 1;
Arahura, 2 ; Nobleman, 3.
Rosehill Guineas; Moorland, 1;
Tribal, 2 ; War Eagle, 3.
Rosehill Cup: Goose Boy, 1;
Two’s Company, 2; Chatham’s
Choice or Warbird, 3.
Hill Stakes: Yaralla, 1; Katanga,
2 ; Veiled Threat, 3.
Highweight Handicap: Pinero,
1; High Flight, 2; Hauteur or Ryl-
stone, 3.


Women's Letters
From Melbourne
When the golden words “I declare this
club open” had been said last Thursday,
service men on leave in Melbourne had
a new spot for dining, relaxing and find-
ing a bed. New rendezvous is the Aus-
tralian Defence Canteens’ Service Club,
A.D.C.S.C. for short (if anyone can say
it without lisping). Beds are provided
for service men only, but service women
are admitted to snack bar, dining-room
and general facilities. A feature is the
library, well stocked with books, news-
papers and magazines. Color scheme is
electric-blue and dregs-of-wine, brought
out in curtains and other fittings against
white walls and leather furniture. The
club is entirely a service affair, and staff
is composed of service personnel with a
liberal sprinkling of A.W.A.S.
Bed accommodation at the club is for
400, which should appreciably lighten the
difficulties of providing for men on leave.
Preference in the matter of beds is to be
given to A.M.F. personnel, but other ser-
vices are to be catered for if there are
vacancies. The problem of “luggage,
luggage everywhere,” which tends to
make most leave hostel dormitories look
like No. 1 platform at Spencer-street
before the express goes out, has been
avoided by a large storeroom in the base-
ment, where kitbags must be left.
People are still echoing impressions of
Mrs. Roosevelt’s visit. Her capacity for
going places and seeing things has won
the admiration of the feminine popula-
tion, especially those who know just how
wearing travelling can be. Nicest story
told about her visit here was that she
waved all her following of reporters and
staff officers out of the room for a few
minutes’ private talk with a soldier boy
in hospital who had a lot of grievances.
The lad had a list of grouches written
out.
Booklets on native flowers and trees,
Australian scenery and animals, that
tended to languish on bookstalls before
the arrival of Allied troops, now are be-
coming scarce. Book stores are besieged
by service men trying to buy “souvenir”
volumes with pictures of Australian
things. Books on aboriginal life and
lore are most popular. In pre-war days
a five-o’clock party-giver was flummoxed
by an American admiral, guest of honor,
who asked “Now tell me all about
Trucanini.” His hostess had never heard
of the lady.
After disappearing from its old spot
in Collins-street for months, Ronalds,
probably the city’s oldest and best-ki)own
florist’s shop, has come back again, this
time a little further down in the same
block. Chatelaine is still Miss Lily
Ronalds, who has pinned sprays on
countless Melburnians.
The Lady Mayoress’s welcome to Mrs.
Curtin on Monday should create some-
thing of a precedent, as it was entirely
.a woman’s affair, and Mrs. Curtin was
guest of honor in her own right. Repre-
sentatives of a variety of women’s organi-
sations, including Red Cross, the heads
of the women’s services, A.C.F. and the
N.C.W. were present, also the wives of
city councillors. Though officially it was
a manless do, the P.M. and the Lord
Mayor were allowed in.
The Un-Named Players are putting
their Drama Festival to the double pur-
pose of giving young dramatic students
their fling on the boards and helping the
Opportunity Club to raise funds for its
work among the city’s needy boys and
girls. The festival will consist of four
performances, three of the A. A. Milne
comedy “Toad of Toad Hall” (a drama-
tised version of the old childhood favor-
ite The Wind in the Willows), which will
be played on the 18th, 20th and 21st inst.,
and one night’s performance of the his-
torical play “Parnell” on the 25th. The
money thus raised will go towards the
expenses of a performance of “Toad”
again at the Union Theatre, proceeds
from which will go straight to the Oppor-
tunity Club auxiliary.
The doggy world will show its paces
for Navy House funds on Saturday, when
the Caulfield Kennel Club will hold its
championship show. To make the affair,
which will be held at Olympic Park, of
interest to a wider circle than the purely
dog-breeding one that usually patronises
championship shows there will be stalls
and competitions in which any dog may
compete, whatever his ancestry. Among
the judges will be the Royle lady and
Mrs. W. Russell Clarke, For those who
come just to have a pleasant day in the
open, unattached to any competitor, just
because they like dogs, the show should
be well worth seeing, as almost every
known breed will be up for judging
Afternoon tea is an added bait.
Dancing enthusiasts trod a measure in
a good cause at the Allied Wings Services
Club cabaret on Saturday, arranged to
fill up the coffers for the entertaining of
service men and women. The club,
founded in answer to the Lord Mayor’s
appeal for more clubs for service men on
leave, goes into action on Sunday after-
noons, this city’s darkest period as far as
fun and gaiety for the visiting service man
go. Everything, including a substantial
tea, is free, and dancing, billiards and a
library help to entertain. An advantage
is nearness to the city, as the club uses
the rooms of the Allied Services Canteen
in Coventry-street, opposite the barracks.
Men of the Merchant Navy are wel-
comed.
Married on Saturday at Toorak kirk,
Lieut. Philip Harington Cowper, A.1.F.,
son of Mr, and Mrs. W. Harington
Cowper, and Patricia Marshall, daughter
of the late A. G. Marshall , and Mrs.
Marshall. Knot-tier was the bride’s
uncle, Rev. W. D. Marshall. The bride
has many links with the kirk in Vic-
toria, being a granddaughter of the late
Dr. Alexander Marshall, of Scots Church.
The couple will make their home on
Lieut. Cowper’s property at Moree
(N.S.W.). Bridal gown of white satin
was “without benefit of coupons,” as
gown, veil and all the trimmings were
borrowed from matron of honor Mrs.
Bill Campbell. Best man was O. D.
Peter Cowper, R.A.N.
Announced their engagement last week,
Flight-Lieut. Bob Green and Corporal
Isobel Short, W.A.A.A.F, Corporal
Short is the daughter of Mr. and Mrs.
George Short, Glen Allyn, Malanda,
North Q’land, and has seen service with
a V.A.D. unit in northern stations—
hence the uniform in this Chargois
Studio’s portrait. Flight-Lieut. Green is
the elder son of the late G. C. Green and
of Mrs. I. A. Green, who, as secretary to
the Exhibition Trustees, has done much
to popularise the Aquarium and other
Exhibition features, and is one of this
city’s most active charitable workers.
The bridegroom-to-be, who has seen ser-
vice “up north,” is a nephew of R. G.
Menzies.
From Adelaide comes Mrs. Gwen Bar-
ringer with some new ideas on painting.
Her ‘ show, which was opened at the
Velasquez Galleries on Tuesday by the
Bruche lady, emphasises her view that the
painter can be part interior decorator and
produce pictures that fit in with particular
rooms and color schemes. She favors
large canvases and prefers flower subjects.
That the idea catches on with many
people was demonstrated in Adelaide,
where a similar show practically sold itself
out. In this show a vivid bunch of pink,
cactuslike African Proteus, designed for a
pink and blue room scheme, well illus-
trates the general trend.
An eye-catching expedient is the use of
brightly-colored materials as backgrounds.
A bunch of zinnias, for example, is
painted against blue-striped Italian linen,
and yellow sunflowers stand out in front
of a multicolored peasant scarf. In an-
other composition mixed white flowers
are posed against brilliantly-patterned
cretonne. Being a grower as well as a
painter of flowers, Mrs. Barringer brought
from the hills around Adelaide masses of
daffodils and other spring bulb blooms to
brighten the gallery.
Friends gathered to convey best wishes
and many of them to Valmai Crump and
Sergeant-Pilot Gilbert Fleming when they
announced their engagement last week
and leave for the airman permitted a spot
of jollity. They will marry when the war
is over. Many aren’t waiting on that
event, among them Audrey Noel, whose
marriage to Dr. W. R. Foster will take
place in the next few weeks. Audrey did
a physiotherapy course at the University
with much success, and has been at Mace-
don with the evacuated children’s hospi-
tal since then. A kitchen-tea gathering
to help the bride takes place today.
From Sydney
When Mrs. Roosevelt stepped from the
’plane at Mascot, first impression was
that she was not so tall as press photo-
graphs would lead people to expect. Then,
as she was greeted by Lord and Lady
Wakehurst (neither of them small in
stature), her height reasserted itself. She
is sufficiently slim to wear her uniform
with effect, and her legs and ankles are
of a trimness that a young girl would
not despise. Those are externals. But
it is in the direct ray of her blue-eyed
gaze that the power and the innate sin-
cerity of this gifted American are re-
vealed. There were newspapermen and
-women —Australian, American, English,
Russian and Polish—and cameramen of
all heights and sizes stalking the great
visitor. There were the Consul-General
of the U.S.A., State Premier McKell and
his wife and U.S.A. and Australian mili-
tary importants bidding her welcome;
and in the milling crowd of press people
a mother who had gone to the aerodrome
to catch a glimpse of her soldier son who
was passing through Sydney and stayed
on for the great moment.
Whether it’s just a way they have in the
Army, or whether her long experience in
public life has taught her, Mrs. Roose-
velt has learned the art of not lingering.
She can exit to the moment on the time-
table made out for her, and she can
clothe the steel of that precision with the
velvet of courtesy. From Mascot (her
car driven by A.C.W. Joan Hush, of the
W.A.A.A.F.) the U.S.A. President’s wife
drove to the city through the streets of
the industrial areas. People had popped
to the dborsteps of their little shops;
factory workers lined the way, cheering
and waving, smiling welcome in their
gaze.
Throughout the visitor’s progress two
pantechnicons of press roared along in
her wake. At every stop out tumbled
newspapermen and -women who sprinted
to the rendezvous. When the call or the
inspection was over, cameramen and
writers sprinted again and bustled into
the panting caravans. The point seem-
ingly was to get into the first bus. If
caught in a jam the only thing to do was
to snare a taxi and make for the next
port of call. It gave the sensation of
being news sleuths in a movie rather than
being at work.
The Gloucester room of the Australia,
which was Mrs. Roosevelt’s headquarters
in Sydney, was crowded for the press
conference. Strictly, this wasn’t a con-
ference at all. Mrs. Roosevelt came into
the room when the press had settled
down. She sat very erect, but without stiff-
ness, on a sofa against the left wall. In a
semicircle in front of her were men and
women who fired at her questions, mostly
on post-war conditions, which would have
given Cassandra and the Oracle of Del-
phi a headache. And here it was that she
revealed to one looker-on the secret of
her strength and good nature. Mrs.
Roosevelt never tries to create an impres-
sion. She takes life as simply and
directly as she did those questions.
The cheering good old general public
got its big chance to see Mrs. Roosevelt
at the Town Hall. This was the oppor-
tunity for the women of Sydney to give
welcome, and in their thousands they
patiently lined the barriered ways along
George and Druitt streets to voice appro-
val. Police and Provost Corps men were
out in their hundreds; there was red
carpet all the way up the Town Hall
steps. Halfway up Mrs. Roosevelt turned,
flashed her bright smile and waved in
friendly fashion. There were still another
smile and wave from her as she stood on
the top balcony.
In the hall were packed more thousands
of women, and when Mrs. Roosevelt,
after being welcomed by Mayor Bartley
and Premier McKell, came forward to
speak the roof just about blew off in the
gale of applause. She spoke of the endur-
ance of the Allied soldiers, of their dream
of a brighter, better world and of how
the women they fight for must help them
build a world closer to the heart's desire.
Lady Wakehurst, too, in her vote of
thanks, made a speech that rang with
sincerity. Then came the film of the
women of England at war work. This
records Mrs. Roosevelt’s activities dur-
ing last year’s visit to England—another
non-stop round, often against a back-
ground of sadly-blitzed street scenes.
Nor was Mrs. Roosevelt allowed to go
without a bunch of waratahs. The Misses
Warby, of the North Shore line, saw to
that. They brought some beauties with
them to the Town Hall; then the prob-
lem was how to present them. As the
procession of celebrities moved from stage
to seats in the hall, Lady Wakehurst’s
quick eye caught the movement to present
the flowers. Swiftly she reached a hand
to the brave red blooms and handed them
on to the visitor.
With unflagging interest this vital
American visited her soldier countrymen s
Red Cross and social centres. She saw
them sick and well. She talked with
them and lunched with them in military
hospitals. She breezed through the U.S.A.
Officers’ Club at Elizabeth Bay, and sat
and listened to war-time experiences of
nurses in their club at Elizabeth Bay, re-
freshing herself on coffee and doughnuts
during the talk. Talks with Australian
service women at Victoria Barracks, a
call at an Australian military hospital
and details of the blood bank at Sydney
Hospital were all food for that quickly-
absorbing, alert brain. The koalas and
the ’roos at Taronga Park provided her
with a touch of our outback ; and the
black swans reminded her of a pair that
had been sent to Mr. Churchill.
A dinner party at Government House,
where the tables were massed with red
camellias in low silver bowls against the
light of white candles in silver holders,
was a relaxation on Mrs. Roosevelt’s last
evening in Sydney. This was followed by
a reception, when about 200 shook the
lady’s hand as she stood between the
Governor and Lady Wakehurst. There
were fires in the grates, and on tables
about the rooms were set bowls of bush-
land flowering shrubs.
The U.S.A. was well represented, from
its Consul-General Ely Palmer couple,
through military and naval gradations.
Australia’s Navy and Army, too, were
there. So were Premier McKell and
his wife. A group of Judges and
their wives included the De Bauns, the
Cantors and the Webbs. Among noted
women doctors were Marie Hamilton,
Dame Constance D’Arcy and Dr. Fanny
Reading. Uniformed leaders of all
women’s war-time services were in the
throng—Noreen Dangar and Kay Mc-
Dowell among them. Mrs. Warwick
Fairfax, slim in silver lame, added a
dryad touch with leaves in the hair. The
Alexander Gordon and the Owen ladies
were together. Shipping knight Tom
Gordon and his wife were noted.
Halfway through the evening the doors
between the drawing-room and the ball-
room were slid back to disclose a striking
tableau vivant of the voluntary women’s
services—four attractive uniformed mem-
bers of each group stood about the room.
About ten-thirty the National Anthem
and “The Star Spangled Banner” were
played by the band in the musicians’ gal-
lery. The visitor was making her Sydney
exit.
With nearly one thousand guineas’
worth of sales by the opening day, the
members and councillors of the Royal
Art Society had a right to look as jubi-
lant as they did. Consul-General for
U.S.A. Ely Palmer made the opening
speech, and all went merry as a marriage
bell. President of the society Howard
Ashton has developed a passion for the
sea, and gets the tang of the salt and
a sense of adventure in his canvases.
Armidale College is to be the richer for
Erik Langker’s water-color “Changing
Sky Shadows.” The Queensland Gallery
snapped up a pastoral by Syd Long.
The National Gallery didn’t pass
Margaret Coen’s “The Glade,” Albert
Sherman’s “Jewels” nor Fred Leist’s
study of an intent girl munition worker.
The show remains open till September 29
in the Education Department galleries.
The Jules couple were among private
viewers ; so were the Souter sisters. The
Albert Shermans, pretty Mrs. Erik Lang-
ker with the two children (small daughter
has her mind set more on private detect-
ing than on art), the Lyall Trindalls, Mrs.
James Jackson, in her V.A. uniform in
which she has portrayed herself, Sylvia
Patricelli and her sergeant husband, who
is a writer in peace-time, gazing at her
self-portrait, H. W. Grace, whose “Salis-
bury, North Coast,” has Australia in it,
Mrs. Hanke, Mrs. Norman Lowe and
Dolly Hollander-Moore were others
active in art or in the admiration thereof.
A Minerva party to help the Stage
Door Canteen will flutter stage and foyer
after the show next Saturday night.
Alec Coppel and Kathleen Robinson are
giving the theatre, and Bunny Campbell
Gray is arranging the fun and games.
Sydney housewives should come out
of.this war a thrifty company. Beef is
more scarce, vegetables are still a coy
company, there’s a ban on cream, and
last week in some of the shops only
half a pound of bacon could be bought
at a time. It looks as though the stock-
pot always said to be brewing on the
Continental hob will become a regular-
tenant of the kitchen stove. Even the day-
light may be saved again. But daylight
is a thing which can be saved and still
spent at the same time.


Divorce Notice.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES—In Divorce.
TO WILLIAM JOHN McGUFFIN late of
Sydney at present at Darwin. —TAKE NOTICE
that MARY JANE McGUFFIN has filed a
.Petition for Divorce No. 2502 of 1942 on the
grounds of desertion without just cause or
excuse for three years and upwards If you wish
to defend you may enter an appearance at the
Divorce Office Supreme Court King Street Syd-
ney by the 29th November 1943 and obtain a
copy of the petition without charge from
CLIFTON R. PENNY Solicitor 81 Elizabeth
Street Sydney.— (l.s.) C. K. BODY, Registrar
in Divorce. •
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES—In Divorce.
TO CLAUDE CHILVERS late of 13 Virginia
Street West Kensington.—-TAKE NOTICE that
MARGARET MACBETH CHILVERS has
filed a Petition for Divorce No. 1840 of 1943
on the ground of desertion without just cause
or excuse for three years and upwards If you
wish to defend you may enter an appearance at
the Divorce Office Supreme Court King Street
Sydney by the 15th day of November 1943 and
obtain a copy of the petition without charge
from MESSRS. E. R. TRACEY & CO. Solici-
tors 81 Elizabeth Street Sydney.— (l.s.) C. K.
BODY, Registrar in Divorce.
' ■ " : v':/ : ' ' ' ' ■ ■ •" ’• :
§fl!§ ilil -v '
... ■ ..........
. .
fcsv
fa
r;Mmk si*
m : ::; :%m
.
,4m
.: : : : : : : : : : :
; • x
: v.
afflHSro-y.x-xirgwamk!..:•: :■: :
m
/
..;v; , ,
.2
• • ■
..: -
■1 Wfa
,v . ■.".
■
■V'M "
-.6
m »f<2* S' *
m s
■i||l aWW
■Mil
■
•;,:v.
Hi
:V”*
« '
: : :•
m
m
m
a
Hi
'<•
j|J,
lip; .
mxzk
mi'. .?'■'■■'
A POST WAR
WORLD OF FLIGHT
Today our every
thought and plan is
ceaselessly devoted to
the service of martial
production - but just
sometimes our
thoughts turn to the
possibilities of the
future a future
world of flight a
future when the accur-
acy that our skilled
engineers are building
into precision parts
for the war planes of
today, will become the accuracy that makes
for a greater factor of safety in the com-
mercial planes of tomorrow.
Every starter, generator, magneto —in fact,
all aircraft equipment units, now being
produced by Tecnico for the needs of war,
are in themselves factors in the march
towards the fulfilment of those ideas of
a post-war world of flight.
When victory is ours, high standards of
precision engineering and craftsmanship
achieved during war will still characterise
“A Tecnico Product” in peacetime industry.
wm
ecmco
Limited
FORMERLY E.T.C. INDUSTRIES LIMITED
CNR. CARRINGTON RD. & RENWICK ST.,
MARRICKYILLE. N.S.W. PHONE LL3211
TC.3.<
B■ B
SMOKE-OH!
“Japanese Emperor reports to his ancestors.”
Later he’ll be apologising to his de-
scendants.
4*
“Churchill smiled while fishing.”— “Argus.”
But we thought it was the trout that
were being tickled.
If America’s First Lady had read all
the hooey written about the Canberra
Menu she’d have been properly fed up
without eating anything.
•J*
“If you suddenly find yourself in the midst
of seaweed and tentacles of kelp, don't lose
your head.”— Magazine.
Above all, try to keep your feet.
•E A' *i*
“Robberies at butchers’ shops.” — “Sun.”
And there’s not much chance of the
prices dropping, either.
t v n- v"
“Melbourne Butchers to Cut Beef Purchases.
—Adelaide “Advertiser.”
Perhaps the customers objected to hav-
ing to bite theirs off.
'I* 'I* '1*
Too many purple patches can make a
man feel very worn out.
*1* -I- *1-
“It is a violation of the New York Sanitary
Code to sleep in one’s bathtub.”
—Weekly paper.
Hence New Yorkers sing to keep
themselves awake.
❖ *!• 4*
“A number of negroes were thronging around
the stalls, busily buying and selling.”
—Travel article.
Another black market?
Priority.
You firmly refuse to search with me
For the ultimate reality.
Declaring in terms that are overripe
That you think my philosophy only tripe.
Ah, well I I shall go on the search alone,
And all of the glory shall be my own !
Moreover, the quest shall fire my blood —
As soon as I’ve found my collar stud!
T. W. NATHAN.
Successful Sorties.
“V.D.C. training is based on the principle
that attack is the best defence. The value of
the initiative is emphasised.”— “S. M. Herald.’
Sometimes I get a little home exercise.
“There’s that Mrs. Bluffem parading up
and down the street,” said Maria.
It was a prelude, of course, to a turgid
account of Mrs. Bluffem’s shortcomings,
introductory to the observation that she
was a friend of my sister. Then my
sister’s failings—and my own —would
come into review.
“How do you mean —‘parading’?” I
demanded. “Has she called herself to
attention, shouldered arms, ordered her
arms and given herself the stand-at-ease?
Has she formed herself into threes”
“Don’t be an idiot, Aitchem,” said
Maria testily. “What 1 said was that
Mrs. Bluffem has been marching up and
down”
“Column of route or in line?” I de-
manded inexorably. “Is she in battle
order or fully equipped? When she
made the turn did she wheel or right
form? And did she do it at the halt or
on the march?”
I could see that my attack had the
element of surprise and had taken Maria
on the wrong foot. Naturally I kept up
the pressure.
“Oh, for heaven's sake! Since you
joined the V.D.C. you have become
simply unbearable!” snapped Maria
finally. She seemed almost anxious to
forget about Mrs. Bluffem.
It was what our company H.Q.
would describe as a successful practice
demonstration. I will try it again when
opportunity offers.
H. M.
Jilted.
“Cheer up, old man, don’t take it so ”
His anxious friend besought;
“There’s quite as good fish in the sea
As ever has been caught.”
The lover turned and glared at him,
And then retorted “Pish!
I know that quite as well as you,
But I don’t want a fish.”
N. A. EVANS.
The Ancient Sport of Hair-splitting.
“Commonwealth Housing Commission Chair-
man : ‘Then the City Council contends that
there are no slums in Woolloomooloo and Surry
Hills.’
“Town Clerk Roy Hendy: ‘Thg council
admits there are sub-standard houses, but says
there are no slums.’ ”
At the Quarter Sessions yesterday Bill
(“Slasher”) Jorkins was charged with being
found on enclosed premises and with in-
flicting grievous bodily harm. Police evi-
dence was that Jorkins, being illegally on
the premises of a doll’s-eye factory at
night, had hit the watchman on the head
with a sharp instrument.
Mr. Shyster, appearing for accused,
denied that his client had been on “en-
closed” premises. Actually, after his
client had broken the lock of the factory
door and entered, he had left the door
ajar. The word “enclosed” meant closed
in, hemmed in, without visible egress. If
the door was ajar there would ipso facto
be visible egress, and the premises could
not therefore be justifiably described as
enclosed.
The charge of “inflicting grievous
bodily harm” could easily be blown
out of court. He would take the
words of this charge seriatim. “In-
flicting,” if he knew his Webster,
meant “imposing” or “to lay on.” Wit-
nesses would be forthcoming who could
testify that his client had never imposed
on anyone in his life. He was a citizen
of an extremely independent spirit, in
fact. As for interpretation of “to lay
on,” this might mean lying, say, prostrate
on something. His client could be de-
scribed as good at lying, but not in the
prostrate sense. Also, it could mean the
laying on, as in the laying on of hands.
Was his client accused of faith-healing?
It was absurd.
“Grievous” presupposed grief, as, for
instance, a mourner’s grief. Who had
there been to mourn over? In any case,
someone had to die to justify mourning.
This couldn’t be so in the case of the
watchman, who was not in the morgue,
but merely in hospital. He would utterly
ridicule the suggestion of grief.
The “bodily” part was so flimsy as to
be scarcely worth contending. In boxing
a “body rip” was a short sharp blow de-
livered between solar-plexus and chest.
His client, in his own words, had only
admitted to “belting the watchman over
the melon.” How could this be the body
and still be compatible with Marquis of
Queensberry usage? It made the charge
preposterous.
The “harm” part of it was the most
laughable of the lot. His client would
freely admit having caused the watch-
man an injury, but certainly no harm.
Then there was the thin police evi-
dence about the “sharp instrument” his
client was alleged to have used. An in-
strument could well be a trombone. He
submitted that no trombone was sharp,
otherwise bandsmen would be continu-
ally cutting their fingers on them as they
pushed the slide in and out. Moreover,
his client had never played a trombone
in his life ; in fact, he had never enjoyed
any musical education whatever. He
had admittedly hit the watchman with a
leaden-handled I6in. file. But whoever
heard of a “sharp” file? Did one shave or
cut bread with such an implement? It
was fantastic. Analysed, it would be seen
that the police case against his client
utterly collapsed.
The Judge, after considering the jury’s
verdict, said he had intended sentencing
accused to five years’ hard labor. How-
ever, in view of the arguments put for-
ward on his behalf by counsel, he would
merely order his incarceration in a peni-
tentiary for half a decade. ,
Bo.


THE OTHER FELLOW'S MIND
The contributor placed first is paid
4Jd. per line; all others per line.
Blunden v. Glasgow
The reference (B. 1/9/’43) to Godfrey
Blunden’s dispatch regarding Major-
General Glasgow will be read by those
who served with and under Bill Glasgow
in the 1914-18 war with a smile. Possibly
Blunden based his comments on the sup-
position that Glasgow’s appointment in
Canada was a reward to a down-and-out
politician ; but Bill was never a politician,
and never regarded himself as one.
He joined the Senate with the object of
promoting the interests of Australia and
the Digger, being a man of strong
personality, straightforward and truthful.
His defeat was a distinct loss to Aus-
tralia, as also was the loss of Bruce,
Casey, Charles Hawker and the few other
statesmen of our country.
By sheer merit Bill Glasgow rose to
the rank of major-general, a divisional
commander and a knight. On matters
of war his knowledge is supreme, and
Australia can congratulate itself that such
a man was handy to confer with
Churchill.
We remember Bill’s favorite comment
when challenged. With the outer points
of his eyebrows turned inwards to
almost touching, he would remark “I’ll
twist his tail.” We’d like him to
get an opportunity of practising on Blun-
den.—Xso (S.A.).
A.I.F. and Miiitia
Now that Australia has decided that, as
a matter of national policy, it will largely
depend on conscript Britons, Americans,
Canadians and Maorilanders to do its
extra-territorial fighting, what is wrong
with withdrawing the A.I.F. from New
Guinea and keeping the Sixth, Seventh
and Ninth Divisions in reserve until the
limits prescribed in the Bill of Shame are
reached by the militia?
The New Guinea fighting looks like
being a long and bitter struggle, and, to
an Old Digger who has a keen realisa-
tion of what depleted battalions mean, it
seems damned unfair that the volunteer
should carry the baby all the time. If
the A.I.F. units now in New Guinea were
withdrawn and their places taken by the
militia the former would have a chance
to build up their strength for the job that
inevitably lies ahead of them.
I suspect that, when the time to drive
Nippon out of Java and Malaya really
arrives, the Commander-in-Chief will not
go cap in hand to any union congress and
ask respectfully if he might borrow the
militia for a bit more fighting; he will
simply tell the Prime Minister what he
wants and expect his wishes to be carried
out. And I furthermore cannot see any
Australian Government, Labor or other-
wise, declining a request made by General
MacArthur. God help it if it did!—Sand-
patch (N.S.W.).
There was a time when I could remark
to such of my friends as would listen that
The Bulletin at least was politically im-
partial. The paper is now characterised
by a spiteful party spirit. In an editorial
(B. 25/8/’43) the Australian public is
criticised because by electing the Labor
Government it has adopted a policy
of allowing those who are willing to fight
overseas to do so.
Well, what of it? The man who is
willing makes a far better soldier than the
one who is coerced. Does The Bulletin
propose that those who are willing to
fight overseas should be forced to stay
at home? The soldier who is willing to
risk his life overseas is the very one who
should do so. The Bulletin appears to
forget that the basis of national liberty
is individual liberty within certain limits.
I assume from The Bulletin’s oppo-
sition to Labor policy that it is opposed
to socialisation of wealth and services,
one of the planks of that policy. In other
words, The Bulletin believes that a man
should give his life, but not his wealth
or services, as the nation thinks fit. Is
that reasonable?
While admiring The Bulletin’s ser-
vices to Australian art and literature, I
must say that the paper makes me very
tired. —M. S. (Tas.).
One Army?
The unfairest reference to the one-
army issue I have seen was under the
heading “The One-army Idea” (B.
11/8/’43), where you reported Capt.
Gullett as saying:
What sort of a country would allow
American conscripts, white and colored,
to fight for its liberties and refuse to send
its own sons into battle?
That such a half-truth should appear in
what thousands of us have come to re-
gard as our national paper is, to my mind,
a cause for lament. The counter to such
a suggestion is that, owing to the mag-
nificent response to the call for militia
personnel to transfer to the A.I.F. and
thus make themselves available for over-
seas service, our Government has found
the introducing of conscription for over-
seas service unnecessary. Is this not a
state of affairs that should make the
blood of every true Australian surge with
pride? I feel privileged to belong to a
nation that can rely upon a call for
volunteers to fill its fighting services.
Official figures prove this to be no idle
boast, as the number of volunteers for
overseas service in the R.A.N., A.I.F.
and R.A.A.F. far exceeds the number
that this country could ever send from
its shores at one time.
The article containing the offending
quotation refers to the undue share of
fighting that must fall on our three A.I.F.
divisions. To this I must reply with a
question that is as baffling to many others
as it is to me: “Why have we still only
three A.I.F. divisions?” That is no fault
of the no-conscription policy. It is well
known that when in 1942 the call was
made on the militia to turn A.I.F. it was
generously answered, yet nothing has
been done to mould these volunteers into
separate units.
Here lies the crux of the matter. We
have units composed of mixed A.I.F.
and militia personnel who are anchored
to Curtin’s “meridianistic limits” when
the A.I.F. personnel should by now have
been formed into complete A.I.F. units.
That such a scheme is practicable is in-
dicated by your own reference to the re-
organisation of the A.I.F. in France
during the 1914-18 war.
I admit there is much to be complained
of regarding the handling of our two-
army system, and consequently there
must be further public discussion of the
subject, but I cannot sit idly by while
half-truths, such as that quoted earlier,
are given prominence in the press. As
one who treasures the privilege of being
an Australian, I feel it my duty to express
a view that may help to remove,an un-
deserved slur on the honor of this nation.
—Mercator (R.A.A.F.).
Prisoners of War
Now the election is over I hope the
Government will spare a few minutes to
“Hey, Mum! There's a bloke out
here who reckons he's me old
man."
consider the fate of our sons who are
prisoners of war in Japanese hands.
Thousands of Australian mothers
search the newspapers daily, hungry for
even a crumb of information regarding
their missing sons, but very seldom do
they find a word.
Am I right in surmising that the parcels
of food sent to prisoners of war in other
parts by the Red Cross are paid for by
voluntary contributions? If so, the Gov-
ernment in effect is breaking its word.
When our sons enlisted it was part of
the implied military contract that the
men would be fed, housed and clothed.
They need the food more than ever while
in enemy hands, and the Government
should pay for it to be sent, and not leave
the matter of providing it to the whims
and caprices of a more or less generous
public.
It may be argued that we have to feed
the prisoners we capture, and the enemy
should do likewise. But why cannot the
Government let the enemy feed its
soldiers here and we feed ours over
there? Our boys would then not only
get more food, but of the kind to which
they have been accustomed.
It is now 19 months since the fall of
Singapore, and many mothers are grow-
ing bitter because apparently nothing is
being done to get in touch with their
sons and to relieve the parents’ anxiety.
As one mother remarked, “How philo-
sophically the Government bears our
troubles!” — Lucinda (Q.).
Psychological Moment
The main influence affecting the very
decisive vote for Labor in all States at
the Federal election was that the election
occurred at the psychological moment
when the war in all theatres was going
well for us, making doubly impressive
Mr. Curtin’s claim for all the credit.
Any Australian Government in power,
irrespective of its politics, would have
received the same support in recent
months from Britain and our Allies in its
hour of need.— Margaret Don (Q.).
Menzies and “S. M. Herald”
In a study of Menzies, psychological
or something, a Sydney “Herald”
“observer” mixed praise with blame.
Praise for Menzies from this source is
rare indeed; but some of Bob’s pre-
war tours were mentioned:
This observer, who was also abroad, and
who in 1934 caught a glimpse of Austria’s
struggle for freedom under little Dollfuss,
remembers well a year later trying to per-
suade Mr. Menzies that the real menace to
peace came not from Italy but from Ger-
many. He met with an incredulous smile.
Mr. Menzies was not on the side of
the “Herald,” either then or up to the out-
break of war.
He could scarcely have been on the side
of the “Herald” in 1934. In September
of that year, when Menzies became a
Federal member for the first time, the
Fairfax paper went into transports of
enthusiasm for Lyons. It was not re-
pelled when Lyons gave it out that his
Government would never, never, never
reintroduce compulsory military training
and asked electors to remember that he
had “led the anti-conscription forces in
the last war.” On the contrary, the
Political Observer’s paper backed him up.
—D. E. (N.S.W.).
Shows for Service Men
For many months now two of Sydney’s
leading theatres have been open every
Sunday night for the entertainment of
men and women of the fighting services.
Any Sunday evening one may see im-
mense queues formed up as early as 6.30
p.m. in an endeavor, frequently futile,
to obtain seats for a show. By 7.15 p.m.
these queues have vanished.
Why? Not because everyone is inside,
but because the house has been sold out.
And the shows don’t commence until
8.15! The fortunate ones must occupy
their seats immediately upon leaving the
box office, for there are no reservations.
They must then exercise an hour’s
patience before settling down to the en-
joyment of the evening.
Why cannot a third theatre be opened?
The overflow from the other two would
be sufficient to guarantee a full house.
Further, many more personnel of the ser-
vices would avail themselves of this obvi-
ously popular form of entertainment if
they had reasonable assurance that their
efforts to gain admission would not be
in vain. One could understand the
present arrangement if attendances were
irregular, but never at any time have the
two theatres been less than full.—
NX 116832 (N.S.W.).
Post-war Policies
When the war ends Australia will be
presented with a unique opportunity for
national development. Progress has been
made in war-time towards transforming
a primary-producing country dependent
on the vagaries of overseas markets into
a nation with one of the best balanced
economies in the world.
It would appear that our manufacturing
centres will be intact when peace returns,
so that we shall have a good start, with
recently-built factories erected for war
or civilian requirements.
In addition to our normal Empire and
foreign trade, we should concentrate on
building up an intercontinental ex-
change system. Particular attention
should be paid to devastated China,
Malaya and the N.E.1., for these lands
possess what we require. But it is impor-
tant that the White Australia policy be
rigidly adhered to. We should refuse to
listen to those who would inundate the
nation with Asiatics and Southern
Europeans. Such a scheme would be of
only transitory value to the countries con-
cerned, whilst for us it would mean a
lowering of all our hard-won standards.
We must press for a greater share in
the formation of the Empire’s foreign
policy. This granted, we must be prepared
to shoulder an increasing share of re-
sponsibility, which means that, whilst
striving for peace, we must henceforth
ever be in a state of armed preparedness.
—E. J. T. (R.A.A.F., Q.).
Post-war reconstruction is the fad of
the moment, but what does the phrase
mean? Australia, as a nation, has been
“Stick to tyres, mug—there ain't no
black market in tank caterpillars."
left virtually unharmed by the war, and
insistence on the necessity for “post-war
reconstruction,” with its implication that
the war has completely altered our way
of life and outlook, is so much rot. The
war has destroyed none of our institu-
tions, has left our fundamental way of
life unchanged, and has caused merely
inconvenience. It has given us nothing
to reconstruct that was not in need of
reconstruction before the war.
In a sense, though, we do need recon-
struction. We needed it long before the
war started. We can’t just drift on, repay
our returned soldiers with a piece of arid
land at easy terms, sling a pittance to
the widows and children, and put up the
“Business as Usual” sign. If we try, then
in a very few years Communism or Fas-
cism will be dumped right in our laps, or
some even worse system as yet awaiting
invention. Our only hope of future
happiness lies in the reorganisation of our
own individual selfish outlook, and of
the national reconstruction of the present
system so that the freedoms are all really
present, in fact as well as in theory. la
other words, democracy.
It can be done, but it won’t be very
easy. We’ll find it a lot harder if we wait
for the war to end. — Pip (A.1.F., Vic.).
Post-war Architecture
Apropos “Hackshaw’s” assertion (B.
18/8/’43) that a beautiful domestic archi-
tecture with its attendant artists and
craftsmen would do more to avert new
wars than all the provisions of the
Atlantic Charter.
Our architects will have to change a
lot before that happens. A Melbourne
architect told me the other day that deco-
ration was out of place on a modern
building. If that is so, what is to happen
to the craftsman? —C. Q. (Vic.).
Great Days
The day on which “men of a famous
A.I.F. division” landed above Lae saw
61,000 persons jostle their way into the
Sydney Cricket Ground to see a profes-
sional football match ; and there would
have been 10,000 more if the Trust, in
foul contempt of the feelings of a gentle-
man who lives on the game, hadn’t shut
the gates.
The day’s “sport” over, all the beer
drunk and all bets paid, an enthusiast
conveyed his compliments to the winners
in a telegram which will no doubt be
preserved in the archives: “It’s a great
day for the Irish! ” This on September 4
—not August 21,
Myself of Irish extraction, I can recall
greater days for the Irish in this war, but
the parties concerned were not foot-
ballers, nor did they share in anything
remotely resembling “a record gate.”
They were Wing-Commander Finucane
and Captain Fogarty Fegen. Wodgil
(N.S.W.).


There Is No Substitute
for QUALITY
DOWN through the centuries the Imperial Spirit
has advanced with ever-increasing strength,
inspiring the pioneer and transforming the wilderness.
As an all-Australian link in the Imperial chain of
industrial achievement stands the wonderful success of
WILLIAM ARNOTT PTY., LIMITED. An out-
standing success, too, based on the highest standards of
integrity and efficiency ... National standards, unaltered
by time or distance.
It is therefore an inspiring thought to Australians that
the rich yield of their own fertile countryside can be
converted into a perfect product with a world-wide
demand, and that the process of manufacture is
unsurpassed in efficiency and hygiene.
r^r
*a
'l*
ti- „ •*• 10 oefend
IS& .
■••' ■ < ,>>>-,, '"■■C
m - .
%75^_
f?' j
- * .
k »J n 4 r. .^asPo;
***•
• >r-*‘"’
•^J
cJiTS T*
■K'O•.
’">■ »*SSr. * <^>
* •»
Arnolis Facfor/
af Homebush. Mew South Wales
15 <u*fk
FAMOUS
It is better to plan victories than have
post-mortems on defeat buy War Savings
Certificates and National Savings Bonds.
ALWAYS ASK YOUR GROCER FOR ARNOTTS "THEY ARE BETTER
THAN EVER"
