

V •
The Bulletin
“The Bulletin,”
VoL 64.—N0. 3289
Wednesday, February 24, 1943
Price 6d.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.
Seppelts
THE WHITE HART INN, CHIPPING NORTON.
THE third town in the county of Oxfordshire, 19 miles from
the “modern Athens,” has been described by H. A. Evans,
a most industrious writer on the county and the Cotswolds, as
“little more than a name to the outside world.” When Evans
set forth this view 37 years ago it was probably correct. Then
the motor-car industry was in its swaddling clothes, since which
time its amazing growth has brought about many new situations
in rural areas. Chipping Norton provides an illustration in point,
yet remaining as of yore the “clean, comely, breezy place with
a long, wide street carried along the slope of the hill, the result
being the houses on one side are at a much higher elevation
than those on the other.” The glory and pride of this township
is its church, justly regarded as one of the finest in a county
wherein are so many outstanding ecclesiastical edifices. It was
probably begun in the thirteenth or fourteenth century, oiiginally
in the decorated style. There is no doubt its wonderful clerestory
was added in the fifteenth century, to show off which to the best
advantage the roofs of the aisles and chancel were lowered.
The restorer has been at work nevertheless on two occasions,
not with happy results. The White Hart Inn is, as will be
observed, of the solid old English style of architecture, though
internally replete with modern comforts. Mentioning this
hostelry calls to mind that in Morton-in-the-Marsh, in the
adjoining county of Gloucestershire, is another tavern bearing
the same name, where Charles I slept on July 2, 1644. Of
peculiar interest in the locality is Chastelton House, possessing
a romantic history and a beautiful and typical English country
residence of the Stuart days. Its interior furnishings and
decorations are unique, in fact it partakes much of the nature
of a museum, and in- normal times is open to inspection by
visitors on Tuesdays and Saturdays from Easter till the end of
September.


France Journal^
This Book FREE to YOU!
STOTT’S CORRESPONDENCE COLLEGE ,
100 Russell Street, Melbourne.
CUT HERE AND MAIL
Please send, without obligation, your New Free
Booklet explaining how to Write lor Profit, t‘
advertised in the Sydney '‘Bulletin.”
My Name .
My Address
S.B. 143
WASTELANDS
By D. A. O’Brien, F.R.G.S.A.
Australian story of love, tragedy and travel.
Bush philosophy and nature studies. Retail 4/-.
post free—C. F. PEARCE, Wholesale Dis-
tributor, C.T.A. Buildings, Brisbane.
The Red Page
HISTORY OF THE ABO.
George Fletcher Moore, a settler on the
Swan from 1830 to 1840, wrote a diary.
Quoted by Paul Hasluck in Black Aus-
tralians (Melbourne University Press),
it makes a perfect history in miniature
of the relations between Australians and
the native race.
Moore was not the grasping, ruthless,
ineffably callous Squatter of romantic
fiction. He liked the natives; he was
interested in their customs ; he admitted
that they were entitled to sympathy and
reparation for the usurpation of their
ancestral rights.
He felt “forced to admire” the daring of
Yagan, “the Wallace of the tribe,” and
even when the native was “a proclaimed
and dangerous outlaw” could not scheme
for his capture. Though in the early days
of the colony two attempts were made to
spear him, he regarded it as an adventure
rather than as a cause for animosity.
At the end of his first year, though
there had been skirmishes and some thiev-
ing, Moore summed up, “We are on
good terms with them.” The killing of
a shepherd, the spearing of a cow and
the slaughter of a flock of sheep made
him wish for the protection of a body of
yeomen cavalry. He found it “truly
alarming and disheartening” when his
pigs were killed and, though agreeing
that “after all, perhaps these uninformed
creatures think they have as good a right
to our swine as we have to their kan-
garoos,” agreed with his brother settlers
that military protection was essential un-
less the colony were to be abandoned.
Moore decided that perhaps “a friendly
understanding” could be reached. The
attempt was made. But more stock was
killed, a settler was stabbed, the natives
set fire to the country ; and Moore began
to think that the tribe would have to
be removed “wholesale to some island.”
When the “Battle of Pinjarra” took place
(in which 25 to 30 natives were killed
by a body of soldiers and settlers led by
the Governor) Moore apparently regretted
the affair, but commented that the battle
was “a painful but urgent necessity and
likely to be the most humane policy in
the end.”
Year by year, Moore’s attitude changes
inevitably from sympathy to exaspera-
tion, Two white settlers are “most in-
humanly murdered”—he feels the neces-
sity for “prompt and decisive measures” ;
rising chiefly from the Pinjarra affair,
there is an outcry in England against
Australian treatment of the blacks —“Let
them come here and convert the natives,”
Moore comments, “and let us defend our-
selves in the way which we find to be
the best” ; two protectors of aborigines
are appointed—Moore fears “It will be
only an additional difficulty in our way
in obtaining redress or justice for wrongs
done to us.”
And finally in April, 1840, the man who
had written humorously about the slaying
of his pigs goes out with his servants and
two soldiers after the natives who have
carried off some sheep and apparently is
really angry, for he confesses “I was glad
that I did not meet with them, for some-
thing unpleasant might have occurred.”
Black Australians is “A survey of
native policy in Western Australia, 1829-
1897,” during which period native ad-
ministration in W.A. was under the
Colonial Office, It sets down the his-
torical facts of what was intended to be
done for the aboriginals, what was done,
and what were the results. Since the
story in all States and under all admin-
istrations is much the same, and since
there is considerable reference to subse-
quent relations between white and black
up to the present day, it amounts pretty
well to a history of the black race since
the coming of the white man, and, as
such, has a fourfold value: as a his-
tory ; as interesting general reading ; as
a practical handbook for anyone in-
terested in schemes for the betterment of
the natives today; and as a solid basis of
fact for anyone wanting to put the abo-
riginal into fiction. Mr. Hasluck should
write another volume, covering the period
from 1897. to the present in the same de-
tail and with the same preference for
facts over polemics.
His book is not quite impartial. Mr.
Hasluck suffers to some extent from those
Awful Doubts which always arise when
the intellectual, though accepting what
the man of action has done for him, finds
his conscience troubled by the methods
which the man of action was forced to
adopt. “There is still substantial ground
for believing that civilised man has some-
thing to teach to primitive man” is a
fantastically weak apology for the great-
est empire and the finest civilisation since
the Romans. By accusing Western civili-
sation of permitting “hunger, war, crimes,
suicides, problems of mating and unem-
ployment” and failing to recognise that
all these things, except unemployment,
existed also in the aboriginal world, he
shows that he is somewhat inclined to
the Noble Savage sentimentality. Yet
because he is chiefly concerned with the
facts, and gives all the facts, he emerges
as a historian as well as a propagandist.
Summing up oq his facts, he finds:
In the course of years the attitude to the
natives changed and, through the exi-
gencies of contact, the early ideals that
the natives were to be civilised and Chris-
tianised and that they were to have the
full status and legal rights of British sub-
jects were gradually abandoned, while the
ideal that their physical welfare was to be
fully protected was eventually reduced to
such terms as a blanket a year and a ration
of flour, tea and sugar.
Present-day native administration in
Western Australia, deriving from the past,
apparently continues to give little import-
ance to the first two ideals. Natives are
not being “civilised” in Hutt’s meaning of
the word, and their legal status has pro-
gressively been reduced far below that of
other British subjects. On the other hand,
it may be claimed that in the past few
years their physical welfare has been
attended to with more efficiency.
Mr. Hasluck advocates a return to the
old ideals. “The training will have to be
slow, patient and continuous. The
cankers that may spoil the work are those
numerous fixed ideas about the nature
and destiny of the aboriginal which
would declare the work useless and un-
desirable before it has begun and at every
pause in its progress.”
Linklafer in Hades.
[The scene is hell. Seated upon a bank of
glowing cinders are Socrates and Dr. Samuel
Johnson. A copy of The Raft and Socrates
Asks Why. by Eric Linklater (Macmillan),
burns merrily beside them.]
Dr. Johnson: And, sir, this roaring
loon of the Highlands imagines that you
and I are in heaven !
Socrates: Why aren't we?
Dr, Johnson: I wish you would stop
asking questions. Nothing—the parti-
cular cinder upon which my anatomy
impinges excepted—causes me greater
pain than the knowledge that Boswell,
whom I despised, is at present enjoying
the blisses of Elysium while I, whom he
revered, am roasting like an ox on a spit.
Socrates: Why is Boswell so elevated?
Dr. Johnson: I wish you would stop
asking questions. I have been forced to
the melancholy conclusion that, in the
eyes of our masters, the writing of The
Life of Samuel Johnson was a more meri-
torious achievement than the living of
that life.
Socrates: Why?
Dr, Johnson: I wish you would stop
asking questions. Our masters have an
unconscionable respect for creative
achievements in the arts. I am ordered to
remain in these uncomfortable precincts
until I write a book as good as Boswell
did. You, too, I imagine, are being
roasted because you blithered away your
creative powers in conversation. I sus-
pect, further, that the maleVolent-looking
pile of cinders in the corner over there is
awaiting the arrival of Mr. Linklater.
Socrates: Why?
Dr. Johnson: Sir, I wish you would
stop asking questions, Mr. Linklater, as
you possibly intend to suggest, has at
least written another book.
Socrates: Why?
Dr. Johnson: Imbued as I am with an
indelible respect for the ancients, I wish
you would stop asking questions. Mr.
Linklater has written his book to reform
the world.
Socrates: Why?
Dr. Johnson ( restraining himself ): Sir,
the two dialogues in Mr. Linklater’s book
cannot be termed creative works of art.
The Raft is about some shipwrecked
mariners who discuss the present world
conflict in improving and, indeed, mov-
ing terms. Mr. Linklater’s style has im-
proved since he wrote The Cornerstones.
The Raft, however, is not a play: nor is
there to be found in it a single animadver-
sion upon the war which could not be
unearthed from the editorial files of the
daily newspapers.
Socrates: Why should anyone wish to
explore the editorial files of the daily
newspapers?
Dr. Johnson ( shifting uneasily upon the
cinders ): What disagreeably tepid
weather we are having! Neither is
Socrates Asks Why a creative work of
art; it is not a drama; it is merely a
discussion ; and there is not to be found
in it one single thought which has not
already been expressed in the multitude
of publications concerning the New
Order. Mr. Linklater’s last political pas-
sion was (of all things!) Scottish
Nationalism. His latest is likely to be
more popular, but is equally chicken-
headed,
Socrates; Why?
Dr. Johnson: Sir, in the name of Beel-
zebub, stop asking questions! 1 discover
in myself a profound objection to all
propagandising for the New Order. It
is not that I should allow my equanimity
to be disturbed should perpetual peace
be established and the populaces of all
countries be given sufficient money and
leisure to attend the talkies for 23 hours
out of the 24; nor do I deny that the
world changes, even progresses; but I
consider, sir, that it is unlikely that para-
dise will be established upon earth for
some centuries yet, and my quarrel with
these Linklaters is that they are deluding
the people into the belief that paradise
is achievable and has been promised. In
the inevitable disillusion after the war,
when a man finds that, one way or an-
other, he still has to pay the baker, he
will be angry with Mr. Churchill, Mr.
Roosevelt, M. Stalin or Generalissimo
Chiang Kai-shek. But I, sir, shall be
angry with Eric Linklater.
Socrates; Why?
Dr. Johnson: Sir, you are a dunder-
head.
Socrates: Why?
Dr. Johnson: I wish you would try
to stop asking questions. Mr. Linklater
reports that those in favor of the New
Order include Voltaire, President Lin-
coln, Beethoven (all of whom, as you
know, are in another place), myself and
yourself.
Socrates: Why me?
Beelzebub ( entering with a pitchfork) :
I dunno why they wisht ’em all onto
me. There’s a guy called Linklater
booked in—charge of giving up writing
funny novels. If youse two bozo'S wanter
get out before he comes, you’d better
get working. How’s that Life and Times
of James Boswell getting on, Dr. Sam?
War-time Engineering .
C, H. S. Tupholme in Modern Engi-
neering (Faber) provides a terse but
technologically exact summary of new
developments in the principal engineer-
ing fields, many, of course, brought
about by the war.
The steam man will be interested in the
Velox and Sulzer boilers —the latter a
one-tube affair with sometimes as much
as four miles of tube—which facilitate
quick starting and sensitive control. Then
there’s the mercury-vapor boiler, used in
electrical power generation. Mr. Tup-
holme airily remarks that a recent instal-
lation on this system was big enough to
cost £BOO,OOO.
In Diesels an important new develop-
ment is the horizontal engine (double-
opposed like the Douglas motor-cycle)
and a lot has been done in the way of
supercharging.
Precision gauges now work to one-
millionth of an inch on certain jobs.
Chrome plating is used to replace the
wear on gauges, dies and taps. Electric
welding is so finely under control that
the tiniest surfaces can be united, and a
dentist can weld steel in a patient’s
mouth so quickly that no heat is felt.
Plastics, of course, go on from strength
to strength. Ford makes whole automo-
bile-bodies of ’em now, and when he
wants to test one Henry swings an axe
at a door-panel with all his strength.
There’s not even a mark to show, though
a steel panel would be cut right through
and bashed over a big area.
Unexpected virtues are being dis-
covered in new materials. Synthetic
rubber is oil-proof and not affected by
the sun. Stainless steel grows stronger
when welded. Infra-red rays speedily
dry newly-applied enamel. A quite new
departure is alloying steel with up to 0.4
p.c. lead, with the result that its machina-
bility is considerably improved, without
loss of other qualities. Magnesium
alloys, miles and away lighter than alu-
minium, are being increasingly used in
automobiles and aircraft.
Latest developments in aircraft design
and construction are discreetly touched
upon, and under the heading of physics
there is a short description of the electron
microscope. A microscope with glass
lenses can’t magnify much over 1000
diameters. An electron microscope pro-
duces photographs of objects magnified
20,000 to 30,000 diameters, and these
are so clear that they can be enlarged
to 100,000 times natural size. A half-
penny thus magnified would be a mile
and a half across and 500 ft. thick.
The book is splendidly illustrated with
photographs and working drawings.
“Mountfort”; Apropos the criticism of
the first person novel (R.P. 4/11/ ’42) the
following remarks appear in “The Illus-
trated London News” for 10th July,
1869:
This is a romance of Exmoor it is un-
usually well written, unusually powerful in
certain parts and unusually full of variety.
And yet the romance is not so constructed
as to carry on the reader easily. The writer
has adopted that plan which was the least
likely to suit his purpose; he has employed
the style of personal narrative. Had he
chosen the more dramatic form, the author
would most probably have achieved a great
success.
The novel under review was Lorna
Doone.
SUNDRY SHOWS.
A “Show of Fives” (five-guinea pic-
tures) at the Macquarie Galleries, Syd-
ney, contains work by 40 artists, mostly
of the type that moves Sydney “Morning
Herald” to its melancholy ecstasies. Ex-
ceptions are Thea Proctor, represented
by a graceful drawing; Douglas Dundas,
whose “Hazy Day” in oils is as lucid as
it is charming; Frank Medworth, who
portrays a jugful of gay flowers; John
D. Moore, whose water-color sketch,
though gloomy, is full of feeling ; Ray-
mond Wallis, who finds poetry in “Farm-
yard Corner” ; and Dorothy Thornhill,
who paints petunias happily. A Roland
Wakelin landscape is characteristically
chunky and rugged, and Lorna Nimmo’s
“Wet Garden” is inexpressibly depressing.
“It shows a young and adventurous
generation usurping the place of the old,”
sang “Granny” of the Fives show. “It
shows youth, full of fight and vitality,
full of love for and enjoyment of art”
Among the paintings singled out for
special praise were “Queensland River,”
which “seeks the tranquil moods of long-
forgotten waters shrouded in mystery
and luminous with the lights of dank
decay” ; and “D. Watson’s dreary slum-
house with washing drying in the back-
yard and dark figures slouching along
the fence a synthesis of fatalism.”
At Adelaide Society of Arts Gallery
is an odd “anti-Fascist” show. There are
a few geometrical designs without obvious
significance, various unpleasant sights
which may be Jews starved or tortured by
Fascists—and a lot of plain bad draw-
ing. The show has scored three pur-
chases by the National Gallery Board,
which is modernising its tastes remark-
ably of late. Two of these are land-
scapes by Margerie Gwynne and
Jacqueline Hicks. The other is a heavy
political satire by John Bainbridge, show-
ing a batch of hanging corpses, with three
small figures in the traditional see-no-
thing, hear-nothing, say-nothing pose; he
calls it (in French) “This Liberty.”
M.G.M. could not have chosen a better
man for the lead in “The Vanishing Vir-
ginian” (Sydney Victory) than Frank
Morgan. The biography of a small-town
prosecutor, full of a gusty love of life, is
a gift for a character actor, and Morgan’s
just the man for it. All about the virtues
and merits of the sort of family life that
went out of the limelight when wives
stopped calling their husbands, as Spring
Byington does, “Mr. Yancy,” the film is
Main Street in reverse —a rebunking of
the American small town. It’s a pleasant
job, humorous, and it hasn’t the Com-
mentator or the ghosts that made such
a bog of mawkishness of “Our Town.”
Current newsreels show what can be done
with the aerial movie camera. A trip in a
bomber that took part in the daylight raid on
the Philips valve works at Eindhoven shows
the Mosquitoes and Venturas tearing into the
attack at roof height, and the subsequent de-
struction. Another short has dramatic shots
from an American aircraft-carrier in the
Pacific as it and its ’planes fight off an aerial
attack. An enemy machine disintegrating in
mid-air and others crashing and burning in the
sea are highlights. A heavy R.A.F. night raid
on Genoa is also shown, with big h.es. bursting
in a pattern over the city. An Australian film
shows naturalist Mel Ward, who long ago for-
sook his father’s footlights for the bush, in-
structing Diggers how to live off the land, even
unto the mastication of blue-tongued lizards
and tree roots.


"TRUTH IN ADVERTISING"
* *
& . .
t: i
OFFICER’S “SAFARI” JACKET
Military Officers' "Safari" Jackets. Extremely light
in weight. Made of fast dyed Khaki Cotton Shirtings
with open neck, shoulder straps, all round belt and
buckle, yoke back. Military patch pockets, easy
action sleeve and armhole. Sizes range from 35 to
43 inch chests. Mailed to any part of the Common-
wealth. At Anthony Horderns'. Price .... 35/-
Note.—lf your order is accompanied by a requisition
signed by your commanding officer, these are cou-
pon free. OTHERWISE 12 Coupons are Required.
0 ®
"THE SENIOR STORE"
0
“Tree” Brand GOLF SHOES
"Tree" Brand Golf Shoes are made in
Brown Oil Grained Leathers. They
have genuine welted, non-slip rubber
soles. Available in full and half sizes.
"Tree" Brand Shoes are made ex-
pressly for Anthony Horderns'. Price,
pair 32/6
12 Coupons
“Clydella” SPORTS SHIRTS
Men's "Clydella” Sports Shirts with collar
attached and pocket. In marl effects of Blue,
Fawn, ■ Brown and Green, also striped effects.
Sizes range from 14| to 18 inch neck. At
Anthony Horderns'. Price 33/-
12 Coupons
ATHLETIC SINGLETS
White Ribbed Cotton Athletic Singlets for men.
A cool, sleeveless style. Sizes range from 36
to 42 inch chest. At Anthony Horderns'.
Price, each 2/6
Better quality. Price, each 3/9
5 Coupons
• Men’s Clothing, Mercery and Footwear —Ground Floor, Gearge Street.
GOLF BALLS CAN NOW BE RE-COVERED
Bring your golf halls to us. Our Sports Department will buy them at 2/- per dozen.
The Government has given permission for used golf balls to be re-covered. All
golf balls will he accepted by us except those with deep cuts zvhich have damaged
the core or which are obviously perished L hrough exposure to the zveather. These
re-covered balls will then be resold in perfect playing condition at a price yet to
he fixed by the Prices Commission.
O Sports Department —Lower Ground Floor, Pitt Street.
ANTHONY HORDERNS'
PHONE: M 2401, DAY AND NIGHT FAMOUS LOW PRICES BOX 2712 C, G.P.0., SYDNEY


F act, Not Fiction:-
THE “BUNGAREE BOATMAN”
OVER in England, at Yarmouth, the
. outsize farmer-seaman who writes
Bulletin yarns under this odd
disguise ran into Dick Saunders.
Dick got his boating education on Sydney
Harbor ; his folk live in Mosman. “Come
on, lad,” he says to the Bungaree Boat-
man, “we’ll smell some of the old bush! ”
Down in the wardroom of Dick’s motor
gunboat they performed a ritual that
many twos and threes of Diggers have
performed in distant places, in the last
war and this, Dick fishing out the packet
of gumleaves sent from back home, stack-
ing them up and putting a match to them.
Then, calling the war off for a bit, they
sat and sniffed in the incense, and plenty
else with it.
For both of them a good deal of water
had flown under the keels since they’d
whiffed the same scent. They’d been some
time now on the seas in ships of J. Bull’s
lively “mosquito fleet,” the craft in which
may vary in size, design and purpose,
but all have in common that they’re the
Phar Laps of the Navy, with a hedgehog
array of guns and depth charges and
suchlike lethal things.
In one sort or another of these spit-
fire craft they’d seen curious things and
taken a hand in curious doings. Over
some of these doings “security” orders
draw a close veil; but it’s no secret that,
as a published report has put it, “The
British now have ‘tremendous numbers’
of fast little M.G.B. mosquito boats in
the English Channel, and have held the
offensive against the Germans” for quite
a time.
Says further the same published
report: “Darting and striking like angry
water-bugs, the speedy little craft have
been preying heavily upon German ship-
ping in the Channel,” Fritz having been
driven to desperate blockade-running
there by R.A.F. and latterly U.S. Flying
Fortress onslaught on his railways and
the railways he’s jumped in France and
elsewhere.
At that sort of job the peppery craft
and those aboard get into some decidedly
odd sort of scrapes. On teamwork they
go in flotillas of eight; for variety
there are lone-hand jobs with the
thrill of the best spy stories ever
invented, “There’s great rivalry between
flotillas and between one ship and an-
other,” says the Bungaree Boatman.
“There's none keener than these chaps
anywhere.”
One flotilla was idling in the Channel
one day waiting for a rendezvous with
other ships of the Navy when the engi-
neer on one craft went up on deck for
a breath of fresh air. Suddenly the fog
shifted a bit, and there they were —slap
bang in the midst of a large German
convoy! Too close, in fact, for the
guarding warships to bring their big guns
to bear on the mosquito boats. Down
below pronto leapt the engineer, and
while he tried to coax fifty knots out of
her the craft’s superstructure was almost
torn away by machine-gun fire. Even
so, they got away without anyone being
hit.
As did the Bungaree Boatman’s friend
Dick Saunders on an occasion that
brought a decoration. Dick was doing a
patrol job; and there, looming up out
of the sea, appeared the crack German
cruiser Prinz Eugen.
Dick could have gone for his life. If
he’d had the normal amount of discretion
he’d have done so ; but the chaps who
go into these lively craft haven’t that
possession or they’d be in some other
line of business. Dick chose instead to
give it a fly. The cruiser carried arma-
ment that could have blown him to Hali-
fax and back again. David and Goliath
was a circumstance to it. He went
against the bristling mammoth, closed
to range, and there got home a damaging
torpedo.
How this action may have ended if
a German destroyer hadn’t speeded up is
open to anyone’s guess. With the de-
stroyer after him, Dick headed for Blighty
by the shortest possible route. One of
his engines failed. He had to try to
beat the destroyer with what he had left.
Besides (on appearances) his own and
Buckley’s, there was one other hope. He
chanced it; headed for a sandbank,
scraped over, and the destroyer couldn’t
follow. What they no doubt said on
the destroyer —on the damaged Prinz
Eugen also —can be left to those who
know more about the German language
than they ought to know.
Dick wasn’t through with his excite-
ments. Making port in the night he
astonishingly found himself passing
straight through between the masts of a
ship! It took him a minute or so to
realise he hadn’t suddenly taken to flying,
though these craft are close on fast
enough for it. It was just that the big
ship was sunk there. “Grim show,” says
the Bungaree Boatman, using what’s an
all-purpose word with him.
It’s “grim” when, with your compass
capable of swinging 40 degrees off, you're
out in a murk and can’t see the Pole Star,
nor any other blinkin’ thing either. It’s
also “grim” (in another Bungaree sense
of the word) when you qualify for mem-
bership of the High and Dry Club. For
that you just go aground at high water
and at low water walk round your ship!
Then there’s the Overland Route Club,
for which Dick Saunders very near quali-
fied when he went over the sandbank.
For membership you go aground, but get
off. One of the Bungaree Boatman’s
Bulletin yarns gave a graphic account
of one prospective member of the Over-
land Route in the act of qualifying. As
with the parachute-users’ Caterpillar Club
and kindred organisations, membership
of the Overland Route Club is likely to
be extensive, charms of the old Channel
including the fact that it’s as shoally as
it’s most times foggy.
Since, like Dick Saunders and a fair
bunch of others, the Bungaree Boatman
went over there to help J. Bull along with
LIEUT. G. R. KENNEDY.
his war he’s learnt more “grim” things
than that about the Channel. As with
the rest of them—and as can be read be-
tween the lines in his Bulletin yarns —
he’s been engaged in some strange doings;
some of them such very curious jobs that
they should make a stunning book when
he’s free to tell of them, and when he
gets back to where, his merinos permit-
ting, he has more time for writing than
gunboating allows.
That’s where the Bungaree part of it
comes from —the strain of merinos of
that name. Thus it hasn’t —nor has its
owner —to do with the Australian mine-
sweeper Bungaree, whose commander
collected an honor in the recent New
Year issue. It also hasn’t to do—again
neither has its owner —with the spud-
growing district of that same name out-
side Ballarat, once so famed for its breed
of raw boned wild Irish that these were
known far and wide as Bungaree savages,
while on their account —no doubt un-
justly—the mallee root was dubbed the
Bungaree boxing glove.
Maybe if the Bungaree Boatman —who,
for the duration, is Lieutenant Gilbert
Ronald Kennedy—walked into Bungaree
they’d take one look at him and hail him
on the spot as a brother. The first of
his Bulletin yarns came from England.
The second, with a fair lapse between,
came from Perth. The next, after an-
other break, came with himself in per-
son, when he wandered into the office
one morning and was on yarning terms
with ail hands by lunchtime. Six feet four
or so in his socks, he has to come into
a room side on. Instead of being in the
pocket-gunboat line, he should, on size,
be in something of about Howe’s ton-
nage.
Despite these outsize Bungaree appear-
ances and the name, he’s neither Irish nor
Australian, but, originally, English. Hail-
ing from industrial Peterborough in
Northamptonshire, he labors under the
same disability as Churchill of having
been educated at Harrow on the Hill,
as were his dad and granddad before
him. Thence to London University of
Engineering; but “An office stool didn’t
appeal to me, and fresh air did.” Or
maybe they couldn’t find an office stool
big enough.
So to Australia at 20; good solld
yakka, getting experience the hard way
up through the Victorian wheat count,y.
why? beinjf’a farmer,’he'took
to the sea: “All farmers want to go
to sea, just as sailors when they’ve
done with the sea want to get a long
way from it and settle down on a good
firm bit of land.”
That’s his own explanation. But, as
well, he learned the handling of boats
yachting and fishing on the Swan. He
did a training course thereabouts, too
in submarine detection and suchlike ; ana
he got himself into the R.N.V.R.
A further explanation could be that
it’s in the blood. His father, a P. and O.
officer, ran a troopship to the Boer War,
joined the Royal Naval Reserve and
served on a minesweeper in 1914-18. His
father’s uncle was Admiral Sir William
Kennedy, onetime C.-in-C. China station ;
and his father’s cousin, Captain Coverley
Kennedy, R.N., commanded Rawalpindi
when that gallant ex-merchantman put up
the historic scrap against the German
Deutschland—Rawalpindi ablaze from
stem to stern, going
down with guns still
barking.
So maybe it was for
these reasons together,
and others as well,
that Bungaree Boat-
man Kennedy up-
fa ook e d from his
merinos and went to
England and gunboat-
ing. There his eyes lit
up when he sighted,
moored together in
Ham b 1 e River in
Southampton Water,
20 craft of the sort
his father had com-
manded in the last
war. His dad’s wasn’t
among them, but that
they were there at all
was something to give
a kick to any boat-
man born. They d
been built 25 years or
more ago —out of lin.
pine! Nothing else
but oysters, barnacles
and other sympathetic
marine growth could have been keeping
them afloat.
They build them tougher now ; and if
those who run them aren’t built any
tougher, they’re built as tough. In other
respects, apart from physique, they range
all round the human compass. One
brand of these pocket gunboats runs to
a complement of two officers and 14
men. Says the Bungaree Boatman:
“They’re from about 18 to 30. Severity
per cent, of them are volunteers, and
when they’ve finished with it they’ll go
back to bricklaying or plumbing again
or the old milk run.”
Some will go to other things —like the
youngster who came aboard to the Bun-
garee Boatman and went to work as Ordi-
nary Seaman Barclay. Four days later
mail came for him addressed Sir Charles
Colville Barclay, Bart.
And there was another chap known
to the Bungaree Boatman who’ll prob-
ably not go back to any milk run, or if
he does his enunciation will start some-
thing in that honorable profession. Com-
ing into a jetty with its wall of stone-
work dead ahead he rang down at the
right instant for “Slow astern.” They
gave him “Ahead.” Very English, with
a complete smash-up now dead certain
and too late to do anything about it, he
leaned back and called to his No. 1, “Oh,
I say, Gerald, do come up and have a
look at this! My word, this is going to
be good! ” “And,” said one to whom
this story was repeated, “that’s why no-
body’ll ever beat ’em! ”
To those not booked for return to the
old milk run can be added Bungaree
Boatman Kennedy. For the time being
he has his gunboating to keep him occu-
pied. Barring his size, which must come
in his way at times, he looks as if the
job fits him from cap to shoes.
Says he: “There’s no cocked hat or
quarter-deck business about it. It’s a
democratic outfit. You know all hands
and their private affairs and their his-
tories. You’re all there together. You re
a team. Each man’s got to be able to do
every other man’s job when it comes to
that.”
Summing up on his year or two ot
adventuring and mixing with them:
“These blokes are the salt of the earth!
With them he’s a fair sort of distance
—sometimes a whole lot of it —from the
blue wool country of southern W.A.
where his Bungaree merinos are ; where,
as he puts it, he’s a sheep-farmer, adding,
“I mean I have a little arrangement with
the Union Bank.”
A sheepman sighting him reckons that
back there again he’ll look the part just
as he does in his present rig. No doubt
he will; though, unless his adopted W.A.
builds everything else on the heroic scale,
the Bungaree Boatman will always look
a bit large on a horse.
UNCABLED ADDITIONS
Convoy to Malta.
(Condensed from an article in the “American ”
by Edwin J. Randall, a chief electrician of the
American merchant marine .)
We sail from Scotland escorted by
what looks like the whole British Navy—
battleships, cruisers, aircraft - carriers,
destroyers.
Our ship is 10,000 gross tons, and
practically a porcupine with all the guns
we’re mounting fore, aft and ’midships.
The only other American-manned ship
in the convoy is 12,000 tons. All the
rest are British jobs, between 10,000 and
12,000 tons. Probably the most important
of all of us is the tanker Ohio, Ameri-
can-built but British-manned. She’s
carrying thousands of gallons of oil.
A letter from Churchill and A. V.
Alexander, First Lord of the Admiralty,
was read to all the skippers just before
we sailed. “This convoy,” it said, “must
go through at all costs”
After we pass Gibraltar the captain’s
orders are read to us: “We’re on the
spot now. Anything can happen. Good
luck.”
For the first time in nearly 27 years
at sea, I notice men going about their
jobs in their lifebelts. As we plough
farther into the Mediterranean we’re all
on edge, waiting for the show to start.
It starts at 9 a.m. next day (Tuesday).
A burst of fire away ahead in the con-
voy. We’re in “bomb alley” now, the
hot spot of the Mediterranean, within
easy reach of land-based German and
Italian ’planes.
At 1.30 p.m. the skipper is pointing aft,
a funny expression on his face, and I
run to a railing. I see a cloud of yellow-
brown smoke ; then a gust of wind clears
it away, and my heart drops to my boots.
Five hundred yards astern is the H.M.S.
Eagle, aircraft-carrier, her ’plane deck
almost perpendicular to the water. Tor-
pedoed. As I watch, an R.A.F. pilot
tries to take off. He roars down the crazy
runway, his wings lift him pathetically,
then he dives into the water. There’s a
sickening explosion as his ’plane bursts
into flames. He must have known he
didn’t have one chance in a thousand.
Now men are swarming over the sides
and diving into the oily water, where
most of them are picked up by destroyers
But the Eagle goes down fighting. AH
around her, volcanoes of water are erupt-
ing. The boys are still dropping ashcans
at the sub. that killed her. As the Eagle
takes its final plunge my stomach is all
tied up in knots.
Within an hour the ’planes go to work
on us. Between eight and 12 in the first
wave. Our convoy sends up one hell ot
a barrage. On our ship seamen
working like dogs passing ammunition to
the men at our guns.
I can’t decide whether it’s worse on
deck or down in the engine-room. Below
every near miss sends tools crashing c
the floor as the ship lurches. But up
above you see ships sinking and men
((Continued on page 15.)


The Bulletin
Vol. 64.—N0. 3289.
Wednesday, February 24, 1943.
THE NEW CHAMP.


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper
“Australia for the White Man”
Directors:
H. K. Prior J. E. Webb
P. H. Prior David Adams
HEAD OFFICE: 252 George Street, Sydney:
Box 252IBB; ’Phone B7971.
Victoria; Newspaper House, 247-249 Collins
Street, Melbourne.
Queensland: 239 Adelaide Street. Brisbane.
Westralia : 33 Barrack Street, Perth.
New Zealand : Nathan’s Buildings (.opp
G.P.O.), Wellington.
London : 1 Hare Place, 47 Fleet Street,
London. E.C.4.
J. BULL, AND OTHERS.
Things now going a little better for J.
Bull, and critics of the Strabolgi-and-pack
breed having been confounded by the
success of British arms and British
generalship in North Africa, the late out-
break of sniping at the Old Man has died
down. It can be counted on to start
again the instant J.B. suffers any sort
of reverse ; and the war is a long way
from won yet, so reverses there will be.
Meantime, though his critics have been
silenced, they show him no kindness.
Perhaps having something of this in
mind, as well as being stirred up by the
late attacks, J.B.’s information services
have taken to sounding steady blasts on
the trumpet on his behalf. One of these,
headed “Fifty Facts about Britain at
War,” makes out a complete defence,
where no defence should ever have been
needed. The “fifty facts” are interesting
apart from that, though some conclusions
that may be drawn from them may taste
a little bitter.
J.B.’s production of ’planes now equals
Germany’s. This fact could be more
•definite ; it probably overlooks the ’planes
being made for Germany in occupied
countries. Anyway, J.B. in one year sent
9781 ’planes to battlefields abroad —over
four times the number he imported. All
of the more than 1000 ’planes that took
part in the devastating raid pn Cologne
last year were J.B.’s own make. Ditto
87 per cent, of the R.A.F. ’planes operat-
ing from Britain and 75 per cent, of
those at R.A.F. bases abroad. The latest
Stirlings, Halifaxes and Lancasters carry
heavier loads of bombs than any other
bombers in service in the world. The
Stirling can carry eight tons —much more
than the load the Flying Fortress can
manage.
Further on J.B. in the air:. In the
Battle of Britain the R.A.F. destroyed
2375 German aircraft in less than three
months —over three times the number of
British ’planes lost. In daylight sweeps
over Europe in the first half of 1942
the R.A.F. destroyed enough Axis ’planes
to make up 15 complete squadrons. Not
so much is heard of J.B.’s Fighter Com-
mand operating, like the bombers, on
large-scale lines: it sends up as many
as 1000 fighters in one day. Coastal
Command in the first two years of the
war escorted 8200 convoys.
An important thing about these figures
is that they were mostly strung together
while J.B.’s home estate was being heavily
pounded. In that pounding two and
three-quarter million J.B. homes, one
house out of every five, were destroyed or
damaged by bomb raids. (Says another
report significantly: “This does not in-
clude mere damage to window panes.”)
In those raids about 45,000 civilians were
killed and more than 50,000 injured
(again, this does not include slight in-
juries). Of the damaged homes, about
150,000 had to be or will be pulled
down. In some London boroughs three
houses out of four were damaged, and
that holds for other big towns. Now,
J.B. can report that practically every one
of the damaged buildings that could be
repaired has been given first-aid repairs,
and is once more occupied.
Also, J.B. is producing 40,000 big guns
a year, with 25,000,000 rounds of ammu-
nition ; and millions of small arms, with
2,000,000,000 rounds to go in them. Then
there are ships, tanks, locomotives and
all sorts of other military supplies. In
twelve months J.B. sent 3000 tanks
abroad. He has dispersed production
all over the country; parts for tanks
are made in 6000 small shops, then
assembled.
Two out of every three persons be-
tween 14 and 65 inhabiting J.B.’s home
estate are working full time in the armed
forces, civilian defence or war industry:
this adds up to more than 22,000,000.
Every fit man between 18| and 41 has
been drafted into the forces, unless irre-
placeable in an essential job. Last year
the age limit was raised to 51. As well,
7.000. women between 19 and 41 have
been registered and are being directed
into war work; unmarried women be-
tween 20 and 30 can be drafted into
uniform, 5,500,000-odd women are work-
ing full time in war industry, and mil-
lions more mainly housewives are
working part time.
Working time lost in labor disputes
is less than one hour per worker per
year. Eight million workers in essential
industry cannot quit their jobs or be dis-
missed, except by permission of the Gov-
ernment —a national Government.
Astonishing in view of some more
of these facts that fighting quality and
generalship in J.B.’s forces should have
ever been questioned by anyone —parti-
cularly by anyone affecting to side with
him. One instance: During Wavell’s
campaign in Libya his striking force never
exceeded 30,000 men, yet inside eight
weeks he took 130,000 prisoners.
As for the Royal Navy, of the many
thousands of ships it has convoyed, less
than one out of 200 has been lost. Six
hundred naval vessels are at sea at any
given moment. Routes for J.B.’s Mer-
chant Navy stretch out 3000 miles across
the Atlantic, 2000 miles to Gibraltar, 7000
to South Africa, 11,000 to the Middle
East, 13,000 to Australasia, 2000 to Arch-
angel. On these and other routes at any
given time are 2200 British ships at least,
of which 1800 are J.B.’s own, these latter
covering 10,000,000 sea miles of the
12.000. covered by British ships every
month. With 100,000 fewer shipyard
workers, J.B. has built and repaired 30
per cent, more shipping than in the corre-
sponding period of the last war. Every
warship sunk or disabled has been
replaced.
One of the main causes of complaint
by J.B.’s detractors was alleged failure
in meeting obligations to Russia. The
fact is that “obligations to Russia have
been fulfilled with the exception of one
tank.” Typical of J.B. that he should ad-
mit such an exception. Typical, also,
that, while most people may now know
something of the thousands of tanks and
’planes which the Russians have received
from the “tiny island, antiquated, tired,”
all carried in British bottoms, very few
know of such items as 3,000,000 pairs of
British-made boots sent to Russia. Or
that J.B.’s cotton and woollen mills work
overtime to produce the clothing Rus-
sians have badly needed. Or of the medi-
cal supplies, radio equipment, food and
suchlike in the lists. Or that all of this
has gone lend-lease.
Altogether a great deal to be proud of,
justifying every word of the praise of
such champions of J.B. as U.S. Under-
secretary of the Navy Forrestal:
Let us not forget that it was England
who fended off the onslaught of Hitler’s
barbarians, that it was that little island,
with its derided democratic institutions,
against which the power of Hitler, at its
zenith, struck and was blunted.
Nevertheless, there is one strong dis-
couragement of bell-ringing in all this.
What of Germany, and, perhaps more im-
portantly, what of Japan? At the
moment the Germans are taking a belt-
ing along the Russian front, but there is
still plenty of fight in them, and far from
their own country at that, as they have
been showing in Africa. Like J.B. —
almost wholly by J.8.-—they have been
knocked about at home. But they are
not a force to be despised. Discounting
the mere wishful hoping for an internal
breakup there, Germany still looks
strong enough to carry on the war, and,
further, has a good deal of held territory
to be parted from before actual fighting
can begin to strike home. Meanwhile
Germany is—or at any rate looks to be
—in a far stronger position than J.B.
was when he performed such prodigies.
The Germans might not have the stomach
to do all that J.B. managed, but there
is no guarantee about this, and hence no
realistic warrant for expecting them to
crack under no more than such pressure
as J.B. was able to withstand.
The same must go for Japan. Ex-U.S.
Tokyo Ambassador J. C. Grew holds
that, whatever the Germans might do,
the Japs will never crack. This may be
the reverse of wishful thinking—alarmist
thinking. But on appearances Japan is
in a stronger position at the moment than
are the other partners in the Axis. Apart
from the nibbling at the fringes, Japan
is not being attacked, is not suffering
fearful losses, and is all the time strength-
ening the defence bastions that hold the
would-be attackers a great distance off.
Like Germany, Japan has a great deal
of territory to be parted from before
actual fighting can begin to strike home.
As well, with the “Beat Hitler First”
strategy operating, Japan is guaranteed
the time for making sure that when the
attack swings that way it will be terribly
costly to the attackers.
All round, Japan looks to be in an
even stronger position than Germany;
certainly in an incomparably stronger
position than the perilous one from
which J.B. so magnificently recovered.
In the circumstances it is a steadying
thought that J.B. recovered as he did.
"Join the Union, You!"
At the beginning of the present month
the N.S.W. Labor party issued another
of its periodical threats of legislation “to
compel employees engaged in industries
covered by State awards to join a union.”
Except for a handful of 1914-18 soldiers,
the most distinguished of whom became
a member in 1941, this party has a singu-
larly poor war record, yet it would have
the hide to deny heroes of Tobruk, El
Alamein and Papua the right to earn
their bread unless they paid tribute to
union bosses, who not only impose taxes
in the form of subscriptions and levies
but, in notorious cases, have allocated to
themselves legislative and judicial powers.
This is perhaps the ugliest feature of a
proposed extension of Fascist tyranny in
which ugly features abound.
The February threat closed with the
intimation that the measure providing for
compulsion would be introduced by “the
Minister for Labor and Industry, Mr.
Knight.” This gentleman was engaged
last week at the Homebush abattoirs, one
of those so-called “State instrumentali-
ties” which were to have extinguished the
loathsome capitalist and ushered in per-
fect little paradises of industrial peace,
but are remarkable only for Chronic
financial losses and job-control of a
vicious type. Compulsory unionism
already exists there, having been intro-
duced by moral suasion as understood at
Trades Halls. It exists also on the coal-
fields and in other industries, and the
public has learned by bitter experience
that it puts a weapon in the hands of
union bosses and mobs which, when the
caprice seizes them, is wielded to its detri-
ment in brazen contempt of Govern-
ments, industrial tribunals and awards.
The Minister’s object in visiting the
abattoirs was to implore the slaughter-
men to return to work. In consequence
of an unsatisfied demand that a unionist
should be put on (the usual demand in
cases of union lawlessness is that a non-
unionist should be put off), about 150
had been on strike since the previous
week, and when the Minister arrived they
had been joined by the rest, with familiar
accompaniments and consequences—
cruelty to stock (“19,748 sheep were re-
moved from the slaughtering pens in a
state of collapse”), empty meat halls and
meatless meals. As a dress rehearsal for
the strike go-slow had been practised for
three weeks, one week’s tally of carcasses
being 36 per cent, of the average. Plead-
ing with his compulsory unionists (in
these cases Labor Ministers always
plead), Mr. Knight received a conditional
promise that they would cease to be sta-
tionary objects, the condition being the
speeding of an application to the Indus-
trial Judges for “a variation of the
award.”
“A variation of the award” has the
melancholy sound of a bad joke, for it
is the rule in compulsory unionism for
“the award” to be varied by “the mob”
at its own pleasure. In the Homebush
award it is specified that a slaughterman
must average 80 sheep a day and com-
plete his tally at 5.18 p.m. According to
Colonel Bruxner, himself a grazier, and
as an old soldier interested in the supply
of meat for the fighting services, the
management “has not been able to get the
mutton slaughtermen to work after 3,30
p.m. or to kill 80 sheep per man per day.”
In October the former Deputy-Premier
called the attention of the House, on a
motion of urgency, to the position at
this “State instrumentality.” “During the
week,” he said, “though our troops are
being fed from the air with dehydrated
mutton, thousands of sheep have been
perishing or deteriorating in value,” and
the customary sheep sale had had to be
abandoned, “because arrangements can-
not be made with the slaughtermen to
provide the necessary labor.” Returning
to the subject a week later, and referring
to a conference at which Commonwealth
and State authorities had implored the
union to remember there was a war on,
the old Lighthorseman gave the House
the substance of their representations.
They said to the mutton slaughtermen:
“Look, we must get a greater output from
you. You are only averaging 70 sheep
per man per day, and your award says you
should average 80. We want 100, be-
cause we must feed our troops. We must
have mutton to be dehydrated. That mutton
has been dropped from the air in New
Guinea. You are being paid two guineas
a day and you knock off at 3.30. You will
get another 15s. a day to kill another 20
sheep—£2 17s. a day for killing 100 sheep
to feed men who are getting 6s. a day and
can’t knock off at 3.30.”
What happened? The slaughtermen told
the conference that they wouldn’t do any-
thing different from what was being done.
To the everlasting shame of that confer-
ence and those connected with it they
acceded to the request of these slaughter-
men that 50 men should be taken out of
the armed forces to join the merry throng
that knocks off at 3.30.
So much for compulsory unionism and
the spirit it breeds in union bosses and
mobs. And this is only the first chapter.
An Absolute Crime.
Always in two minds as to whether
Moscow or Hollywood is its spiritual
home, Sydney “Daily Telegraph” is
squealing for more aid from America and
shouting for a Second Front in Europe
Now. Americans reading this stuff may
rate it even sorrier than some of the
speeches on the Militia Hopscotch Bill,
more especially as it was followed by a
dirty crack at their soldiers in Tunisia—
“ The American retreat before the Axis
offensive launched last Sunday [Febru-
ary 14] has been so rapid that observers
give them little chance of recovering in
time to close the coastal corridor against
Rommel’s Afrikakorps.”
Even the enemy was less ungenerous.
Reckoning, and no doubt exaggerating,
U.S. losses in the action, he said he had
taken only 781 prisoners, and, on his own
showing, twelve times the number of
prisoners fought until they fell dead or
wounded —nor were the wounded left
behind by their mates. Australians who
have fought beside Americans in two
wars do not need to be told that there
are no gamer soldiers anywhere.
With the inconsequence and meanness
of soul that characterise the breed,
Second-Front writers and radio uncles
are fond of pointing out that the U.S.
soldiers in Tunisia are green. So they
are ; and so are many of the Tommies
in all the British armies except
the magnificent Eighth. And yet,
if they had their way, our un-
speakable non-starters would assemble
all the green divisions that could
be concentrated at points of embarka-
tion in the south of England, pack them
with all their impedimenta and supplies
into a thousand or two thousand ships
(supposing the ships could be got) in the
Narrow Seas, and hurl them at the
heavily-fortified Channel coast. There,
the Germans, with everything in their
favor, could swiftly bring up forces, com-
posed in the main of veterans and with
commanders who have had all too many
opportunities of learning their job, far
exceeding those at their disposal in
Tunisia. The ensuing scenes would beg-
gar descriptions of Dieppe and Dunkirk.
There would be a veritable massacre of
ships and men.
The excuse for reviving this crazy agi-
tation —with which, of course, Commu-
nist mouth- and pen-fighters throughout
the English-speaking world have identi-
fied themselves —is that Stalin has Hitler
so groggy that only the opening of a
Second Front is needed for the knockout.
Of this there is no evidence whatever.
Though the Germans took a very bad
licking in the Stalingrad area, they still
hold great parts of Russia, from the
Leningrad district to Sevastopol, and
their capacity to maintain themselves on
shorter lines has not been disproved.
They have doubtless had serious losses,
but in the nature of things the Russians
themselves must have suffered severely,
as did their ancestors in their victorious
winter campaign of 1812. Considering
the skilful, and so far successful, opera-
tions which the Germans have conducted
in Tunisia, newspaper and radio stories
that they are on the verge of catastrophe
in Russia—their generals dolts, their men
dispirited and exhausted —simply dont
make sense.
Underrating the enemy is a mistake
for which we have paid dearly in this
war. Bitter experience should prompt
us to assume, not that he is in such a
bad way that everything may be risked
on the airy assumption, but that he is
still strong and cunning and capable of
planning and carrying out a deadly
counter-stroke. .
Three months ago Americans in high
places were talking hopefully of a race
to Tripoli, with the odds in favor ot
General Eisenhower reaching that place
before General Montgomery. It wa-
even suggested that Anglo-Americans
from Tunisia would contrive to “get be-
hind Rommel’s army.” Except to Com-
munists and home-keeping newspaper-
men, it has become painfully evident that
the campaign in Tunisia, though it mus
be finished before a Mediterranean cross
ing can be attempted, is going to be a
fairly long job. Demands for a Secono
Front Now are criminal. The pum sn '
ment for the crime should be entorcei
enlistment of all newspaper, radio an
Communist fire-eaters of military age
a Second-Front army,


PLAIN ENGLISH
The Fifteenth of February.
On the Great Forgotten:
It came round again, that direful day—for
Australia, the blackest in its history; for
Britain, the most calamitous since the loss of
the American colonies; for perhaps 90,000
fighting men, Britons, Australians, Indians,
men ot other races and their families, an
overwhelming personal tragedy. Ninety thou-
sand is the estimate, but only the triumphant
and exultant enemy knows how many prisoners
he took, and how many remain in captivity,
and where. Of our lost Eighth Division all
ine information he has vouchsafed in a twelve-
month is that several hundred officers and
men are prisoners of war.
February 14 was a Sunday. Were there nation-
wide church services, solicited by the Govern-
ment, at which prayers were offered up for the
fallen and the captives and the grief-stricken
people in the homes left desolate? There
weie not On the mournful anniversary were
nags half-masted and then proudly raised to
the masthead before evenfall? Were there
processions through the streets and gatherings
in public places, with pledges of devotion to
the lost division and the cause in which it
tought. Did Parliament, at a solemn sitting,
renew its fealty to that cause and dedicate
itself to the deliverance of the lost division —
as did the Scots when the 51st Highland Division
was engulfed in France—by resolving on the
creation of another Eighth? No.
*i7* 1£ L re W£ F s . no sitting of Parliament that day.
i uk- e talking at Canberra went on in the
lobbies and in the rooms assigned to parties,
pressmen and members recruiting their flagging
Powers by taking refreshment or playing
billiards, and it concerned an elderly “Opposi-
tion” Senator named Crawford. For on Aus-
tralia’s Black Day it had been announced that
Senator Crawford intended voting for the Labor
Government’s Militia Hopscotch Bill, which,
among other things, forbids the sending of
militiamen to Singapore.
This aged adherent to the limited-liability
principle had to be handled delicately, for it
is his custom to leave Canberra on Thursdays
to attend to private business in Sydney or some-
where. It therefore became necessary to put
the Militia Hopscotch Bill to the vote in good
time before the 4.15. This was done, and
Senator Crawford was on hand with his vote.
Vainly did seven Old Digger Senators pro-
nounce the measure “unworthy of Australia,”
inasmuch as it “fails to provide for adequate
support of the A.1.F., the creation of one homo-
geneous army and the utilisation of that army
in whatever field of service may be necessary
for the winning of the war.” Vainly did
Senator McLeay move an amendment empower-
ing the Governor-General “in a grave emer-
gency” to issue regulations requiring militiamen
to serve anywhere ; vainly did Senator Spicer
try to get militia service extended to New
Zealand, Malaya and Burma. Senator Craw-
ford voted against both amendments and with
the Government on the bill as introduced ; and
the bill went through.
Let it not be supposed that Singapore Week
was empty of processions, street banners, flags
on public buildings. Town Hall meetings,
prayers, pledges of devotion, newspaper splurges
and radio-station guff. Sydney had a special
issue, the flags being flown by order
of Premeir McKell, who froze out the Anzac
Day ceremonies; and though Singapore was
not mentioned (neither was Japan nor China) a
good time was had by all. Occasion? The
25th anniversary of the founding of the Red
Army, a non-combatant in the war in the
Pacific.
Request for an Inquiry.
Premier Dunstan has been asked by
J. M. Mullens (Footscray) and other Vic-
torian Labor members to have the war
history of Red trade-union bosses investi-
gated, and he was so strongly impressed
by the case made out by Mr, Mullens
in a vigorous Assembly speech that he
seems likely to accede to the request.
Premising that he had been threatened
by Communist “bashers, thugs and ran-
ters,” Mr. Mullens declared that “a col-
lege for revolutionaries, a class for com-
missars,” was being set up in Melbourne,
and that men of the type of the late
Jack Barnes who laid the foundations
of trade-unionism and made it —as they
themselves were —Australian through and
through were being “dispossessed by
Johnny-come-latelys,” with evil results to
unionism and Australia.
If there is a cessation of brigandage, of
hold-up or stand-over methods, that is only
temporary, conditioned by the international
situation. If the member for Goulburn
Valley wishes to seek the genesis of labor
troubles, if the good worker he once knew
has given place to a different type under
a certain set of circumstances, let him
search for the real cause. If the member
for St. Kilda finds a vague, intangible in-
fluence in industrial concerns, something
upon which he cannot place his finger,
something that is hard to analyse, let him
not blame good unionists or unionism, be-
cause unionism is fundamentally sound.
Let him look around for the “shop com-
mittee,” and he will not have to go far
before he finds the hand of “big boss
Flanagan,” or Thornton, or someone else
of a similar character.
“Thornton,” he explained, was “Ernie
Thornton, general secretary of the Iron-
workers and Munition Workers.” A kin-
dred soul was “the celebrated Don
Thomson, secretary of the Builders’
Laborers’ Federation”; another was
“Cecil Sharpley [“For a Soviet Aus-
tralia”! ], assistant secretary of the Muni-
tion Workers’ Union,” which is amal-
gamating with Thornton’s Red racket.
We in Australia are going to pay for the
complacency that allows a Sharpley, a
Thornton or a Thomson to dominate the
economic life of this community. Thornton,
Thomson and Sharpley are all under 35
years of age. All three are eligible for
military service and all three have skulked
behind reserved occupations. Don Thom-
son in a reserved occupation! When this
man received his military call-up he
waddled around the Trades Hall reduced to
angry tears.
“Don Thomson” replied through a
newspaper. He said that when he re-
ceived a military call-up last August “the
Painters’ and Plumbers’ Unions immedi-
ately protested to Mr. Ward.”
They alleged that I was being railroaded
into the armed forces. They pointed out
that, as a union secretary, 1 was entitled
to exemption, as are employers’ representa-
tives.
That is correct. As the “Argus” puts
it, “under the schedule full-time
executive and organising officials of em-
ployers’ and employees’ organisations
who are aged 25 and over are exempt
from military service.” There are few
officials of employers’ organisations, and
such as exist are mostly beyond military
age, but there are hordes of robust
union officials about.
Let us have that inquiry, Mr. Dunstan!
And let Mr. Ward, from whom Mr. Cur-
tin cannot bear to part, be called as a wit-
ness to give his version of the Thomson
case and answer a few pertinent ques-
tions about the number of able-bodied
union controllers on his reserved list and
the number of able-bodied Communists
not in the fighting forces or the C.C.C,
A Guinea Prize.
It is offered to the man, woman or child
who, not being connected with or inter-
ested in the Pore Man’s Sport, can state
(a) what all the initials stand for in
N.S.W. dog-racing reports, ( b ) what good
dog-racing is to anybody except those
raking in the shekels and (c) what Deputy
Premier Badly does for his large salary
and gold pass beyond hurling himself
into dog-racing wrangles, while the flower
of the nation is facing the enemy.
Like anti-conscription politicians of
the 1917 vintage, they’re Fearless
Fighters, these dog men. Said one of
them; “We will stand unflinchingly by
the men of the south” ; and this appeared
in a Great Daily’s blackest type. The
men of the south had refused to pay a
license fee to the C.G.R.C.C., a defiance
that immediately brought all the other
initials into the fray. There were the
N.C.A., the G.R.A., the G.D.A., the
N.5.W.G.8.0. and T.A., the N.S.W.T.C.,
the C.T.C., the H.P. and W.P.A., the
S.C.O. and T.A., the N.O. and T.A., the
—but why go on?
Mr. Badly is titular Minister for Mines.
He never, never interferes with striking
miners, but he seems to think dog-racing
more important than the war. He set up
a Board of Inquiry to look into the matter
of control, taking for this purpose three
high officials from the State War Effort,
and it looks as though he’ll set up a Grey-
hound Racing Board, complete with a
permanent and highly-paid chairman,
members, secretary, staff and so on.
The dog men regard Mr. Badly as a
godsend. They and the tin-hare variety of
their alleged sport are not tolerated in
other States. In N. S. Wales they get a
full-time State Minister to look after
them, and their smelly and useless hounds
are toted round the tin-hare country in
Government trains.
The wrangle over a license fee has
been raging for a long time. It has occu-
pied pride of place on the sporting page
of the Great Daily all this month. Threats
and counter-threats are issued daily.
There have been three “State-wide” con-
ferences in Sydney, two of them on Sun-
days, means of conveyance of delegates
not stated. These birds are even talking
about sending a deputation to the Prime
Minister to ask him to “restore racing on
austerity Saturdays” and to allow dog
punters to bet on horse-races between
their tin-hare gambles.
In the role of intervener Mr. Badly
announced in Wollongong that he would
advise the C.G.R.C.C. to stop collecting
the license fee. Next day the Great Daily
carried a three-column streamer headline
“Ignores Chief Secretary’s Request.” The
C.G.R.C.C. had snubbed Mr. Badly. Did
Mr. Badly flinch? He did. Next day he
(Continued on page 8.)
LET ’EM ALL COME!
“Federal Labor proposes to enfranchise uniformed boys and girls of 18, 19 and 20.”
“Can she talk?”
“She said ‘ga-ga’ yesterday.”
“Then we’ll give her the vote.”


Poisonous Waste
in the Blood
may cause Rheumatism, Lumbago,
Sciatica, and other painful ailments
arising from disordered kidneys.
DOAN’S
BACKACHE
KIDNEY PILLS
make you well and keep you well.
Don’t delay. Remember the name—
DOAN’S!
SOLD BY ALL CHEMISTS
AND STOREKEEPERS.
Foster-McClellan Co.,
Proprietors,
15 Hamilton St., Sydney.
EVERY MARRIED MAN
should be insured. A few shillings a week put away regularly now will buy a surprisingly
large amount of security for your dependants in the event of your death. By taking out an
endowment policy you can ensure against want in your own and your wife s old age.
Australasian
CATHOLIC
Assurance
COMPANY, IjTD.
“THE A.C.A ”
has ample funds *.o meet claims, and is now paying liberal bonuses
in both the Industrial and Ordinary Departments. F or review of
actuary’s report see “Bulletin,’ 26/1/ 38.
All Classes of Assurances Effected.
Head Office: A.C.A. Building, 66 King Street, Sydney.
E. J. Mooney, Managing Director.
P. J. Ryan, Secretary.
Branch Offices: ■
Victoria: A.C.A. Building,, 118-126 Queen Street., Melbourne. .
Queensland; A.C.A. Building, 270 Queen Street, Brisbane.
South Australia: Bank of N. S. Wales Chambers, 12 King William Street, Adelaide.
Wf.stern Australia: Warwick House, St. -George's Terrace, Perth.
District Offices and Agencies Throughout the States.
Queensland
Insurance Co.
Ltd.
Head Office:
Pitt & Bridge Streets,
Sydney.
The Largest
Australian Company
Transacting
Fire, Marine, Accident, House-
holders’ Comprehensive, Workers'
Compensation, Boiler Explosion,
Machinery Breakdown, Aviation,
etc.
intimated that no action would be taken,
adding, in desperation, “I’m through with
the whole matter.”
There has been another conference.
Probably there’ll be more. The inquiry
conducted by the three high officials
from the State War Effort is still in pro-
gress. The dogs still run, and many thou-
sands of pounds that ought to be going
into war funds are going into the pockets
of parasites battening on the racket.
These rows never develop except when
there’s big money about.
POLITICAL POINTS
Crawford and Foil have been in the
Senate together for quarter of a cen-
tury, Queensland having sent them there
as conscriptionist Nats. After many
years they fell out, and for a long
time it has been common talk at
Canberra that Crawford had only
to divine or be told how Foil’s vote
would go to vote the other way. So
Labor was not taken by surprise by Old
Tom’s support for the Militia Hopscotch
Bill, opposed by Foil. But it had to be
sure that the division would be taken
at a time convenient to the new-old re-
cruit, who always leaves Canberra on
Thursday on business more important to
him than the country’s—something to do
with sugar. Thus when parties are almost
equally divided do trifles decide events.
In Committee of the Senate Militia
Hopscotch Bill amendments were moved
by McLeay (S.A.) and Spicer (Vic.).
McLeay’s provided for the striking out
of the geographical limits in “a grave
emergency,” Spicer’s for extension of
.militia service to Maoriland, Malaya and
Burma. Crawford siding with the Gov-
ernment, both failed of a majority, the
voting being 17-17. The third reading
was adopted by 22 to 12 ; in this divi-
sion Crawford was joined by the two
McLachlans, Hays, Hayes and Leckie.
He was missing when McLeay’s National
Security Bill removing the ban on con-
scription in the original Menzies Act
came on, and the measure was swiftly
carried ; but present indications are that
it won’t even be debated in the House.
A Canberra correspondent remarked
that Crawford’s decision to vote against
any amendment to the Militia Hopscotch
Bill was the “beginning of the end of
serious conscription controversy during
these sittings.” But when were any of
the boys, except the South Australians,
ever serious about the thing?
A Federal Minister and an Anglican
bishop signified their willingness to
attend a Red Army anniversary in the
Sydney Town Hall. Australia has no
Red Army, but it has an A.1.F., the Bth
Division of which vanished at Singapore
on Feb. 15, 1942. Except in the hearts
of the people, no national ceremony was
staged to mark the first anniversary of
that disappearance and no Minister or.
bishop was heard lamenting the fact.
According to “S.M.H.’s” Canberra man
early last week, the man-power scheme
was being jeopardised by a growing dead-
lock between Ward and Wurth. What
the country needs is for someone to put
a headlock on Ward.
It has come to, the pass that employees
of a Broken Hill hotel struck because
they didn’t like a couple of the lodgers.
From this it is a small step to shop
assistants striking because they don’t like
a customer, a train crew striking because
it doesn’t like a passenger and a news-
paper staff striking because it doesn’t like
a subscriber. One of these days the tax-
payers may strike because they don’t like
strikers.
A brute who, to spite his mother-in-
law, belted a pomeranian dog with an
iron bolt and then held its hind legs and
smashed it on the roadway, so mutilating
the poor creature that it had to be de-
stroyed, was let off on entering into a
recognisance of £2O to be of good be-
havior for 12 months. No ruffian need
fear the cruelty-to-animals law in N.S.W.
Because some Australians succeed in
travelling from one part of their country
to another part the “authorities” are said
to be “alarmed” at “border evasions.”
The whole silly business of trying to stop
wives seeing husbands and people going
about their business ought to be dropped.
And so ought the priority system.
While the guns were roaring on the
frontiers and Red ’planes were hovering
over Helsinki, the Finns had a Presiden-
tial election. The Perth politicians have
voted themselves two annual extensions
of their terms (and salaries) on the
ground that it would be inexpedient or
something for the electors to vote. Some
Victorian State politicians were of the
same mind and had hopes of convincing
Dunstan. That gentleman has, however,
decided on a June poll.
Having presumably failbd to get any
satisfaction from Lang the State A.L.P.
executive has summoned the directors of
his “Century” to come before it and give
an account of themselves. Lang main-
tains that the executive hasn’t the power
to expel him, that the Auburn (/.<?., his)
branch is the only body with that power
and that “Rule 122 ( a ) should be expli-
“THEY CAN’T CHUCK HIM OUT!”
cit enough even for the legalistic Mr.
Taylor... .the juvenile member of the
Commonwealth Bank Board.” Mean-
while, the Big Fellow is continuing “my
fight against conscription.” His enemies,
with McKell’s blessing, have thrown the
“Standard,” described as “official organ
of the A.L.P.,” into the ring against the
“Century.” So far it isn’t a patch on that
paper.
From a column headed “Capitol
Stuff,” written by John O’Donnell, one
of the best-known Washington correspon-
dents, and published in the N.Y, “Daily
News” (Dec. 30);
The Japs, according to latest reports,
are now doing a brisk business selling some
of their crude rubber plunder from the East
Indies and Malaya to the Russians for use
against Hirohito’s partner Germany.
No ; it wasn’t quoted by Bishop Burg-
mann or Canon Garnsey or any other
politician or Com. during the Red Army
Day rejoicings.
According to Lang’s paper, the Com-
munists are losing control of the Syd-
ney waterfront. Objecting to the intro-
duction of the gang system, anti-Com-
munists sent a deputation to Curtin and
Beasley and then got the sanction of the
Sydney branch of the union for
appointment of a committee. The Reds
ran a ticket, but the six committeemen
elected were all anti-Reds. “This, quoth
John Thomas, “is the Communists’ most
serious reverse since they set out to cap-
ture control of waterside unions.” He
and the Corns, have travelled a long way
—in different directions —since he became
“greater than Lenin” and shouted that
“the Revolution is here.”
Now that the papers report Parlia-
ment so scrappily (it is perhaps the
greatest mistake modern journalism
makes), “Hansard” often corrects them.
It did this in the case of the point made
by Archie Cameron against the Militia
Hopscotch Bill. What the member for
Barker said was this: ; —
According to international law, if a man
in uniform is caught by the enemy doing
something beyond the duties prescribed for
him by his Government, he has no rights
under the law. Presumably if a militiaman
were taken prisoner by the Japanese outside
the zone prescribed in this bill, he would
not be entitled to the treatment which inter-
national law prescribes for prisoners.
In the same speech the roughhewp wit
said: “Not long ago I told the P.M. that
he was attempting to assume the role of
a Cromwell. He has adopted the role
of a Cromwell, but that of Richard the
son, and not Oliver the father.” Still,
Jack has lasted longer than Richard.
That feeble character became Lord Pro-
tector on September 3, 1658, and turned
in the job on May 25, 1659, abandoned
by all his party.
Labor’s proposal to give votes to boys
and girls (18 to 20) in uniform should
be embodied in a bill for an Act to Get
Our Party Another 100,000 Votes. Exten-
sion of the franchise to youths who have
been under fire might not be seriously
opposed, but since Labor has frequently
said that no man under 21 will go to a
fighting station, and since no uniformed
flapper will be there, the thing is mon-
strous. Why girls in uniform and not
girls in munition factories? And What of
the 20-year-olds who have seen active
service and been honorably discharged?
It came out during the Red Army cele-
brations that in 15 months Britain and
America had sent to Russia enough tanks
for 32 armored divisions and enough air-
craft for 400 squadrons (6200 tanks,
5600 aircraft and 85,000 trucks), as well
as “hundreds of thousands of tons” of
other munitions, tools and food. Britain
had also met a Russian request for
3,000,000 pairs of boots and enough
greatcoat cloth to stretch from the White
Sea to the Black Sea. Nobody need
imagine that “Australian” Corns, will ex-
press gratitude for this magnificence, or
for the sacrifice of British and American
ships and lives (Britain alone has lost
nine warships) on the dreadful Mur-
mansk route.
Canberra’s strangest member is
Maurice Blackburn. He resembles Archie
Cameron in having the courage of his
convictions, but his convictions and
Cameron’s are poles apart. Blackburn
was expelled by the Victorian A.L.P.
executive for refusing to give up his
association with the Soviet Friendship
League, and unless he is pardoned before
election day his refusal will cost him a
safe seat. Then he gallantly cham-
pioned the cause of the Australia-
Firsters, the Red mob’s mortal enemies,
who were interned on the flimsiest evi-
dence without trial. The last lone anti-
conscriptionist in Parliament, in the de-
bate on the Militia Hopscotch Bill he
ran true to form.
It is said that we have a duty to Russia.
But Russia is not a party to the war with
Japan. On April 13 of last year [it was
really April 13, 1941] Russia made a pact
with the Government of Japan. We owe
no duty to Russia. Though I am one of
those who value greatly what Russia has
done, Russia is only defending itself.
Russia has raised no troops for fighting
outside Russia.
And now perhaps the martyr to prin-
ciple will be expelled by the Soviet
Friendship League.
Because E. G. Theodore appointed one
person and the local Clerks’ Union wanted
another person to be acting deputy-
director of the Allied Works Council
personnel in Brisbane, the office staff
there struck and C.C.C. manual laborers
came out in sympathy. Theodore said
he wouldn’t have the office crowd back
and would have proceedings taken against
the others. Curtin promised the strikers
an inquiry if they went back, though the
one in Sydney is still dragging on, hav-
ing cost well over £20,000 so far and got
nowhere. They have gone back.
A plan to increase the Australian popu-
lation to 20,000,000 by immigration is
included in the Federal Government’s
post-war reconstruction plans. Doubt-
less, in addition to passing ordinary im-
migrant requirements, candidates from
abroad will be invited to produce their
union tickets.
South Africa is another country that
will have an election in 1943. Its Assem-
bly’s five-year term has nearly run out,
members having been elected in May,
1938, when the United (Hertzog-Smuts)
party captured 111 of the 150 seats. It
split in September, 1939, on the war
issue, and, though Smuts has since had
a working majority and may retain it,
he cannot look forward to electioneering
with any pleasure. Fortunately for him,
the anti-war Dutch, so strong in 1939
and some of them so turbulent since, are
in two factions, and none of their leaders
is within cubits of Hertzog’s political
stature.


C Vtiotw**
Gold Medal
WINES
PERSONAL ITEMS
The Hun missed a rare kill off Malta
the other day. Four Focke-Wulfe
Kuriers—about the size of a Short
Sunderland—met a single Beaufighter.
In the Beau, was Maoriland-born Air
Vice-Marshal Keith Park, Air Officer
Commanding, Mediterranean, son of the
doyen of N.Z.’s geologists, Professor
James Park, former Dean of Otago Uni.’s
Mines Department. Park, who began his
fighting life with the N.Z.E.F. on Gal-
lipoli and rose to command the fighter
group immediately protecting London
during the Battle of Britain, ordered his
Beau, to attack. After a dogfight in
which the F.-Ws. digested a lot of lead,
one of the Beau.’s engines was set on fire
by a burst of 20mm. cannon fire just as
the enemy decided to give the rest of the
battle a miss. Climbing carefully, the
Beau, made enough height to glide into
Malta.
Eisenhower and Krueger;
Berlin Radio has made much of the “fact”
that a “German” general is in command of
America’s overseas forces. The Germans have
even less right to him than they have to Willkie,
whose grandparents emigrated to America be-
cause they couldn’t stand the German politics
of the day. Eisenhower’s family has been in
America since 1730. There were good Dough-
boys in the last war and there are in this war
only one generation removed from Germany. In
Eisenhower's case Anglo-Saxon and Scotch-Irish
strains have entered the line with the passing
generations. A Texan by birth, he was brought
up in Kansas and calls , that his home State.
He was a fair baseballer and very good foot-
baller : American rules; therefore he broke a
leg; he broke it again the Duke of Windsor
way—falling off a horse. That made him take
to soft pastimes like fencing and golf. Also
flying. At 46 he became a licensed pilot. In
the early 1930’s he was Chief of Staff to
General MacArthur in Washington, and several
years later was MacArthur’s special assistant
in the Philippines. Now 52, Eisenhower is a
prodige general—less than two years ago he
was a mere lieut.-col. Another highly-placed
U.S. general—Lieut.-Gen. Walter Krueger, in
command 6f the lately-formed U.S. Sixth Army
in Australia —was actually born in Germany
(Prussia, 1881). He went to the U.S.A. when
he was eight, and at 17 was in the army there
as a private. He has soldiered with great dis-
tinction ever since: in the Spanish-American
clash in Cuba (1898); in the Philippines (1899-
1903); in the 1914-18 war; and in Uncle Sam’s
regular forces.
It seemed remarkable that a sig. with
the crowd in Timor had managed to
knock together a wireless transmitting
set out of bits and pieces. Sigs. get a
pretty good training, but nowhere up to
that standard. It turns out that the
Timor chap is Joe Loveless, who in peace -
time was one of the Commonwealth’s
best-known wireless amateurs; former
address, Hobart; callsign, VK7ML.
Reported wounded and prisoner of
war (B. 3/ 2 / ’43), Major A. H. P. Hore-
Ruthven, son (only child) of Governor-
General Lord Gowrie, died of his wounds
in an Italian hospital in Libya. He was
in the toughest branch of all tougn
branches of the fighting services—a para-
troop commando. A Digger who
dropped in on The Bulletin put it this
way: “I thought the A.I.F. was fairly
tough, but I had a shot at the com-
mandos. I thought that was tough, too.
Now I’ve got into the paratroops. The
rest was easy to this outfit.” Major
Hore-Ruthven was born at Quetta, India.
He had been serving in the Middle East
since the war started and was several
times “mentioned.”
The idea that Australians haven’t the
right dance tradition and can never be
real ballet dancers in the classic fashion
is somewhat disproved by the career of
Robert Helpmann—he has dropped an
“n” in England. Born at Mount Gam-
bier (S.A.) and educated at Prince’s Col-
lege, Adelaide, he was trained by a local
teacher, and on leaving school went
straight into J.C.W.’s corps of dancers.
In 1933 he cast up in London and
joined the Vic.-Wells as a student dancer.
Preobrajenska gave him some advanced
instruction in the language of the leg
in Paris, but he made his first appear-
ance in England as an actor. Then he
shot up to be leading male dancer in the
Vic.-Wells Ballet, about as high a dis-
tinction in the art as it’s nowadays pos-
sible to reach. The other day he gave a
performance before the Queen and the
Princesses in London.
“Ek Dum” spills some Vacuum Oil:
Name of Daniel Sidney Aarons, born at
Donaldtown (Vic.), August 1, 1885. Educated
at North Broken Hill; apprenticed to a
chemist. Abandoned the apothecary’s calling
after two years. Tried insurance for another two
years. Materialised in Perth (W.A.), with
Vacuum Oil in 1903. Rowed in W.A. King’s
Cup eight (1912); managed W.A. lacrosse team
to Victoria. In 1915 with the A.I.F. in Egypt.
Admits he was in the 16th (W.A.) Batt. and —
in reply to an ironical “Any battles?”—adds
diffidently: “All the usual battles of the 16th.”
The 16th’s usual battles, like those of the rest
of the 4th Brigade, were most unusual, as could
be expected in the mob of “Prospector” Percy
Black (“Come on, boys! the tanks!”).
One was First Bullecourt, where Aarons and
the choice little force led by Black, Murray
and others of their ilk proceeded into a hail of
bullets which “made the wire look as if swarm-
ing with fireflies.” Black, as he foretold to
Drake-Brockman, did not come out of that
fight (“I may not come back, but we’ll get the
Hindenburg Line”). Aarons was one of the
little band of officers who came to what was
afterwards called “the brave decision” to dig
in when all seemed lost. When Germans were
seen in crowds at the Riencourt windows and
the position was “crying out for guns,” it
was Aarons with a mate who volunteered to
make the long crawl back to H.Q. under a
blinding fire, sometimes hole-hopping, some-
times sheltering against a nine-inch bank to
bring—too late —aid from the artillery. He
came out with an M.C. To this he added a bar
at Hebuterne (April, 1918), when an inferior
force of his company faced a whole German
(Modelled by Frith.)
DANIEL SIDNEY AARONS.
battalion across Serre Ridge. In the words
of his own gay dispatch to H.Q., those of the
enemy who came on “got so knocked about
that the balance of the attack seemed to be
only hands-down along saps, go as you please.
Sort of Anzac rules.” Aarons, too, was look-
ing over Cateaux Wood towards Georgsburg
on Germany’s “Schwartzs Tag” (August 8,
1918), when the vision of the first apparently
disorganised Germans appeared before the
astonished eyes of the 16th, who had “advanced
by short rushes” on the right of Mericourt.
His last fight was in Sept., 1918, when he
cleaned up at the Courtine trench after Mc-
Carthy, V.C., and F. J. Robbins had killed 15
Germans, taken 40 prisoners and almost broken
Jacka’s record by grabbing 500 yards of enemy
line. Aarons still keeps his A.I.F. figure and
soldierly bearing. Has been N. S. Wales
manager of Vacuum Oil since 1932. Never
talks of his fighting. Says his hobby is golf.
Those near him say it’s the Legacy movement,
the personal troubles of his staff and friends
and, in his rare spare moments, antique furni-
ture.
The Commonwealth Literary Fund has
made a fellowship grant to E. J. Brady
to enable him to write a biography of
Archibald, of The Bulletin. Brady is
one of the few remaining members of
the band Archibald gathered round him
in his endeavor to instil Australianism
into the literature of this country.
T. T. Hollway, the Ballarat man who
leads the Victorian U.A.P., isn’t sure
these days whether he’s a grounded air-
man or a flying politician. He just gets
set on R.A.A.F. duties up north when
things political happen down south. In
the State Parliament the other day Holl-
way had something to say about
“special investigators, probably with great
black bushy whiskers,” waiting to catch
unfortunate producers who charged a
ha’penny too much. That kind of face
fungus was popular in Hollway’s home
town when his ancestors hit it in the
’sixties. He was Australia’s youngest
politician at 25 when elected to the Vic.
House in 1932, and he had collected his
LL.B. from Melbourne Uni., as well as a
reputation as a footballer. While with
the R.A.A.F. he doesn’t draw his salary
as Opposition Leader.
Another Salvationist in the “Fighting
Mac” tradition —“Major” Moore, who
was on hand with coffee right on the heels
of the advancing Diggers in the Middle
East and lately again in Papua. He hails
from Melbourne. Returned Diggers from
up north have a great regard for him.
Retired through ill-health, M.L.
Supreme Court Judge Hubert Ostler. He
went to Christ’s College, London, for his
education; returned to M.L. to have a
shot at farming ; studied law ; was made
Crown Solicitor jn Wellington in 1910,
and in 1919 joined a legal firm in Auck-
land. As well as being a large landholder
in M L., he has land interests in South
Africa, and has been
over there on a
number of hunting
expeditions.
The University of
New Zealand seldom
grants an honorary
doctorate, but it has
conferred one (a
D.Sc.) on Dunedin-
b o r n Alexander
Craig Aitken, for
the past 19 years lec-
turer in statistics and
mathematics at Edin-
burgh Uni, Dr.
Aitken, already a
D.Sc. (Edin.) and a
Fellow of the Royal
Society, saw active
service as an officer
in the 1914-18 war,
in which he was
wounded. He de-
voted his convales-
cence to research.
He is today, at 47,
one of the world’s
foremost mathemati-
cians—“the greatest
British algebraist
since Arthur Cayley,”
in the words of Prof.
Whittaker, of Edin-
burgh.
Adelaide - born
Squadron - Leader
Richard Bentley
Osborn, D.F.C., of
the R.A.F., lately
awarded the D.S.O.,
is reported prisoner of war. Aged 23, he
is the youngest son of Prof. T. G. B.
Osborn, formerly of Adelaide Uni. and
now of Oxford. Flight-Lt. Andrew
Osborn, of the R.A.F., whose death was
announced almost simultaneously, was
also a son of Prof. Osborn. Peter, the
eldest, is with the R.A.F.
Two of a good kind: —
Official Historian Gavin Long has an extra-
ordinary lot in common with C. E. W. Bean,
who made such a fine fist of the 1914-18
war that possibly Canberra took him as a
model. If not, Coincidence in person did.
Long, as tall as his surname, is somewhat
loftier than Bean, but is built on the same
spare lines. Like Bean, he is quiet and re-
served, and gives the same impression of
scholarly strength of character, caution and
balance of mind to see the big job through
and do it well. Again, like Bean, he has been
appointed from the “S. M. Herald” staff, and
both represented “Granny” in London. Both
are offshoots into journalism from other pro-
fessions (Bean, law; Long, schoolmastering),
and both link closely with the church: Bean’s
father was the Rev. Edwin Bean, of Bathurst
(N.S.W.); Long’s father was Bishop of
Bathurst. Both Official Historians had their
early schooling at Bathurst’s All Saints’ Col-
lege, of which Bean’s father was sometime
head, and in which Long’s father took a special
interest. Long, born at Foster, Gippsland
(Vic.), looks much younger than his 41 years,
as did Bean when he started on his similar
job at the same age. Long has been one of
this war’s few really good war correspondents,
as was Bean in his war. Unlike most of them.
Long (as Bean did) writes objectively; not
about Long, but about what Long sees. Bean
had a personal look at a lot of fronts, from
Egypt and Gallip. to the finish in France. Long
was with the B.E.F. in France in 1939, and since
then has been with the Royal Navy in the
North Sea, the Diggers in Libya and Greece
and the Diggers and Doughboys in New
Guinea.
Another Victorian M.L.A. reported
p.o.w. is Captain George Hamilton Lamb,
member for Lowan. B.A. of Melbourne
and formerly headmaster of the Geelong
Grammar Prep. School and lecturer in
English and Economics at the Gordon
Institute of Technology, he enlisted early
in the present conflict. He was posted
missing after the Cretan business.
In line with the policy noted in recent
Catholic appointments in Australia —
selecting native-born candidates for high
posts —Chaplain Hugh O’Neill, of Kevin's
College, Oamaru, a native of Dunedin,
has been appointed coadjutor to the
Scotchbyterian city’s bishop James
Whyte, who has been in ill-health. Hail-
ing from Ireland, Bishop Whyte landed
in Australia half a century ago, and Car-
dinal Moran claimed him as a professor
for St. Patrick’s, Manly (Sydney). The
new coadjutor is noted for wide reading
and a rich sense of humor.
Gatton Agricultural College (Q.) hopes
to instil the principles of land production
into a Tongan prince during the next
couple of years. He is Jione Gu, second
son of the Queen of Tonga, and goes to
Gatton from Newington (Sydney), where
he made a reputation as a footballer.
He’s 18, tall and weighs 15 stone. Agri-
culture is a compulsory subject in Ton-
gan schools, since it is the basis of life
on the islands.
Lately appointed chairman of the
Anzac Division of the British War Re-
lief Society in the U.S.A., Harold
Rabling was for many years a leading
Vacuum Oil executive in Australia and
is now resident director of that co. in
N’York. He’s an old Wesley Collegian.
Into the silence:
At Longueville (N.S.W.), at 85, within three
days of his wife’s death, Ernest Burfield
Taylor, one of the council that founded N.S.W.
Railways Institute in 1891 and carried it on as
a voluntary work for nearly 30 years. Then it
was made a branch of the service and now has
over 20,000 members. E. B. Taylor edited the
institute magazine and wrote much verse and
prose for the press. Only son, Brig. Harold
B. Taylor, has been announced p.o.w. in
Japanese hands.
Tom Lewis, “Advertiser” sub-editor and re-
porter got an unusual tribute from Adel-
aide police court on his early death. “We
looked on him almost as a fellow-member of
the court staff,” said Muirhead, P.M.; and
“never uttered or wrote an unkind word of
anyone,” added the Police Prosecutor. Tom
was at his work in court when seized with
illness which ended him in two or three days.
In Launceston (Tas.), 69, G. L. Creasey,
C. distributor of relief funds after the
great floods in northern Tasmania in 1929.
Was auditor of the Commercial Travellers’
Association for more than 30 years.
At Murwillumbah (N.S.W.), O. E. Boyd,
great rifleshot, who competed with N.S.W.
teams in all parts of the Commonwealth and
M.L. Also visited England with an Australian
team and was second in the aggregate for the
Kolapore Cup.
In Sydney, Augustine (“Gus”) Slattery, one
of the best-known men at Homebush saleyards
and chief cattle classer for Country Producers’,
with whom he’d been for 20 years. As his
father before him, he had been at Homebush
all his life. A Parramatta Lancer in the
Boer War and a Digger in 1914-18.
In Melbourne, Miss Alice Henry, pioneer
woman journalist. Melbourne University
wasn’t open to women when she went to school,
so, after matriculating, she joined the “Argus.”
A vigorous writer on social and political
subjects, she went to the U.S.A. in 1905, and
for 30 years was one of the literary pillars of
the women’s Labor movement there. Two of
her works on women and Labor unions are
regarded as standard books in America.
In Sydney, M. Henry Marsh, 67, ex-president
and for the past 15 years organising secretary
of N.S.W. Lawn Tennis Association. An
old singles and doubles State champion on
both turf and hardcourt, he became a forceful
administrator. The grounds owned by the
association at Rushcutter Bay (probable venue
of the next Davis Cup) are a monument to
his foresight. Big tennis has had no more
ardent disciple of the grab-’em-young idea; he
watched young proteges like Bromwich, Pails
and Giichrist rise from suburban courts to the
top flight under the tutorial schools he organ-
ised.
At 85, William Peter Barber, of Wellington
(M.L ). M.P. for Newtown 1902-06, he was on
the boards of many bhsiness concerns in the
Windy City, and held the distinction of being
the first motorist to brave its breezes.


Society
"AND IT'S PRINTED
WITH WIMBLE'S INKS"
“Loc”: Fortified as I now am against
the vagaries of Sydney’s lesser dailies,
a recent effort of “S. M. Herald” came
as a bit of a shock. Beneath a picture
of the French battleship Richelieu,
stationary, barges alongside and with her
anchor chain down—a snap that could
have been taken at Dakar any time
in the last year—was the legend: “A
radiogram of the French battleship
Richelieu steaming into New York
harbor....” Still it was a U.S. Office
of War Information picture.
♦ H= * *
“U. Jack”: Our enemies swear that
J ohn Bull and co. are a bad lot and accu-
mulated an Empire by a combination of
impudence and rascality, but we seem to
hold our Commonwealth of Nations to-
gether by something not so easily ex-
plained and sneered at. I’ve been look-
ing at a newsreel depicting that very
debonair soldier General Herring decor-
ating Papuan fuzzy-wuzzies with silver
medals for splendid loyal service. The
gratified grins that light up those dusky
faces are worth walking 10 miles to see.
Could anyone imagine a German, an
Italian or a Japanese commander carry-
ing off such a ceremony (even if there
were the inspiration to think of it) in
such a palpable atmosphere of easy
friendliness and good feeling? Back of
Papuan loyalty, of course, stands the
shadow of Hubert Murray, and Murray
embodied something very much finer and
larger than Britain’s present enemies are
capable of conceiving. He who would
build an enduring empire must deal
justly and seek friendship. Our race,
with all its stupidities (as our enemies
say), seems to have mastered that funda-
mental.
* * * *
“Adelaide”: A charge which the news-
papers mildly call “unusual” has been
laid against an Adelaide tramwaysman:
“Began a new shift without having at
least eight consecutive hours off duty.”
The figures were close: off at eight
minutes after midnight, on again at 7.51
a.m. He pleaded not guilty, was cleverly
defended and the case was dismissed with
£lO costs against the Tramway Union.
H= * * =f=
“Sing 9”: The headlamp business in
N.S.W. should be in a thriving condition.
When the blackout fever first broke out
Heffron, Minister for N.E.S., not only
ordered that headlights must be masked
but prescribed the pattern of the mask. 4
The pattern was a machine-manufactured
job, and a brisk trade in the masks arose,
the price of a pair (made of sheet tin and
frosted glass) ranging from 13s. 6d. to
17s. 6d. Furthermore, the job of fitting
masks mostly necessitated a mechanic.
In a good many cases people didn’t bother
about the discarded lenses. Now, ordered
by the same Heffron not to use masks
under penalty of the Traffic Act, motorists
are finding that it’s a mechanic’s job to
remove the mask and replace the lens —
and mechanics and lenses are hard to
find. Further, removal of lenses allowed
weather into the reflectors, and many are
now useless. Thus good business awaits
lens and reflector dealers and mechanics,
if there were any such people to take
it, which there ain’t. Only fools hang
on to their motor-cars in N.S.W.
* * * m
“Eton and Poonah”: Anthony Trol-
lope’s disparagement of the wooden
houses of Sydney (B. 10/2/’43) was
balanced by his admiration for some of
Sydney’s waterside mansions. He envied
the happy residents who lived on the
foreshore of the harbor, particularly Sir
James Martin, who then owned a fine
residence, with a garden running down
to the harbor’s edge. Trollope compared
Martin’s place to Fairyland and pro-
phesied that “some of these great places”
would “become as famous as Lowther, or
Chatswood in England, being “infi-
nitely lovelier than either.” If Trol-
lope could return to Sydney today
the only one of these mansions he might
still recognise would be Elizabeth Bay
House, and he would be hard put to
recognise that, for it stands, robbed of
its garden, marooned in the middle of
a genteel (though not entirely gentile)
suburb, while the mansion itself shelters
goodness knows how many tenants.
♦ * * *
“X.S.”: In a strange bigamy case in
Melbourne it was alleged that a girl of
17 had married a man of 51, presented
him with five children and then fallen in
love with a soldier who thought she was
a single woman and married her. The
warrior’s “wife” introduced her legal
husband as her father and her children
as her sisters and took the soldier home
to live with the old man, who appar-
ently was at first quite reconciled
to the arrangement. He played cards
with the newly-“married” couple,
and brought them their tea in the
mornings. He had a change of heart
later, and it was on his information that
a bigamy charge was brought against
the woman. The soldier said that he still
cared for his “wife” and would look after
her as such if leniency was extended.
’Sonah released her from gaol on a bond
and told her to come up later for sen-
tence.
“ Why, Arthur, I wasn't expecting you home till Friday!"
“Harold Hardupp”: The last of the
County of Cumberland’s steam trams has
gone with the disappearance of the one
which lingered on year after year in Par-
ramatta. It was used lately mainly for
traffic between river barges and Meg-
gitt’s factory, but carried passengers too,
especially punters homing from the
Rosehill races. The snorting steam
trams which used to rattle along
Sydney’s streets with a noise like
ironmongery shops shaken by earthquake
were a shock to visitors and a source of
gloomy pride to locals, but it is surprising
that they should have been able any-
where to survive electric trams. Most
“I wanna see my face in 'em, kid."
“ That'll be five bucks in advance."
Sydney tram routes were electrified early
in this century ; but besides the Parra-
matta line the Kogarah-Sans Souci and
Rockdale-Brighton le Sands lines carried
on with steam for decades, and New-
castle also had a steam line.
* * * *
“8.P.”: An “Australian short story,” it
claimed to be, but it contained phrases
like this: “Summer waned, and soon
autumn spread a riot of red gum-leaves
along the dusty bush track.” Of course,
a Pitt-street bushwhacker could have
written it; plenty of them believe our
timber moults.
* * * *
“Inglegar”: Within hail of the Western
Highway and safely tucked into the
corner of a Bowenfels apple orchard is a
burial ground dating from the bad old
days of “the system.” Tradition has it
that convicts who broke under its rigors
were laid here by the score, but proof
there is not. There is evidence, though,
that someone had a mighty grudge
against the youthful Corporal William
Travis, 80th Regiment, died June 12,
1837 —a grudge which extended beyond
the grave. Though mellowed by a cen-
tury of weathering the Travis inscription
clearly reads that he’ll “rise and march
again.” But at the foot of the stone is
a badly-executed Latin inscription which
translates as “Lie still if you’re wise.
You’ll be damned if you rise.”
* * * *
“S.T.S.”: A real young conscientious
objector, a lad described as of “splendid
character,” has been court-martialled in
S.A. He had been pushed into the Army
Medical, but has now decided that even
.this work is too military for his cou-
' science, and he is willing to be imprisoned
time after time rather than obey com-
mands. His father had him christened
Ernest Christian.
* * * *
“Lao-dah”: I was surprised to hear that
Gandhi had embarked on another fast,
modified by fruit juice and water. Years
ago he announced his intention of
renouncing his favorite political weapon.
The reason he gave for his decision was
that fasting had been brought into dis-
repute by sundry unscrupulous Hindus
who were using it, not for some altru-
istic purpose, but to further their own
ambitions. If a politician wanted to score
over his opponents he started fasting ;
if a businessman was.being badgered by
his creditors or a young man was jilted
by his girl he forswore his tucker.
Always a stickler for principle, Gandhi
didn’t want to be associated with these
disreputable opportunists.
* * * *
“L.L.”: Slips of the unconscious?
Proprietor of a Melbourne fruit shop
hangs out the legend: “I am naturalised
Greek subject.”
* ❖ * #
“Pequena”: The two R.A.A.F. squad-
rons recently cited by the United States
War Department for outstanding action
in the North-west Pacific made air his-
tory for their splendid force. Stationed
at bases in Timor, Amboina and Buru,
they were the first to feel the shock of
the Japanese advance. Without experi-
ence and conscious of inferiority,
they attacked the sea-
plane base at Tobi —the
first blows delivered by
any Australian force in the
war with Japan. Their
subsequent activities cul-
minated in January, ’42,
in an attack on Mindao.
They were flying Hud-
sons ; six ’planes went out
but only one returned.
The names of the five
pilots missing are perpetu-
ated in the names of aero-
dromes in Northern Aus-
tralia. Replenished in
numbers and ’planes, these
squadrons carry on and
have earned individual
decorations for their haz-
ardous flights and Jap-
harassing poundings in
Timor and neighboring
islands.
* *
“X.S.”: Street fights,
one between a soldier and
an airman and another be-
tween a soldier and a
sailor, started the biggest
i pub-closing-time brawl
* Melbourne has seen since
the police strike. Civilians
enthusiastically took part;
boots were taken off to
\serve as impromptu
and fruit barrows
provided ammunition. The
police arrived in force
and endeavored to draft
the belligerents into sec-
tions. Two constables had their helmets
trampled flat, and one had his tunic
slashed. Sightseers kept on arriving
in trams and trains. When service men
were placed in a prison van a rush was
made to overturn it. The locale of the
disturbance was the gateway to the city
between Swanston-street and Elizabeth-
street, and a commonsense proceeding
would be to close the pubs in the imme-
diate vicinity on Saturday afternoons.
Then the people who spend Saturday
afternoon drinking beer and betting with
s.p. bookies would have to penetrate
further into the city and would be dis-
persed.
# % *
“Loc”: “Niloc” (B. 10/2/’43) was
wrong about the maroon ties trammies
wear with their summer blouses. Ihe
N.S.W. Transport Department chose the
very genteel shade, and is proud to say
that it supplies the ties as part of the
light-weight ensemble.
THE BUSTED IDOL.
Time was he towered, Colossus-like as Caesar,
Above the petty world that he bestrid.
His eyes, his mouth, his chin, his very sneezer
Earned many an honest artist many a quid.
And when his voice erupted, like a geyser
Or a volcano, as it often did,
Reporters were to urgent efforts spurred
Lest they should fail to catch his lightest word.
Time was his frown gave Labor chaps a fearful
Conviction they were heading for a jolt.
His smile left others with delight as tearful
As in the case of Alice and Ben Bolt.
But whether he was saturnine or cheerful,
Few cared to cross him, fewer to revolt.
Enthroned he sat, as Eastern sultans sit,
Serenely first, unchallengeably It.
“Greater than Lenin,” once his friends insisted;
“On the right track invariably.” Well,
It seems to me, if Trotsky still existed
He might provide a closer parallel.
The very tongues that erst his prowess listed
Are ’mong the loudest now to give him hell.
Declensions such as these will seldom fail
“To point a moral or adorn a tale.”
How is he taking it? Resigned or frantic?
Chafing like Boney on an island speck
Cut off from all the world in the Atlantic?
Or Wolsey when he got it in the neck?
Such stale analogies may sound pedantic.
Let me but say, before my pen 1 check,
That when a kid I had the same quick pang
For Humpty Dumpty as I’ve now for Lang.
N.S.W.
T. THE R.
BEER.
“Would boor be beer if it were frothlcss?’ (B.
17/2/’43.)
Well, I dunno. I deem it inexpedient
To say too definitely it would not.
Though obviously, lacking this ingredient, '
One couldn’t blow the foam-flakes on a pot.
Yet even if it’s found some such restriction
Will reinforce our stores of amber cheer,
1 cannot put aside a dim conviction
That beer will still be beef.
The old Egyptians were the earliest brewers—
A statement most historians endorse—
Of this most notable of thirst-subduers,
Albeit they hadn’t any hops of course.
Still, they had malt and various herbs to trust to
For any extra kick they put therein;
And Pharaohs tackled it, I’ll bet, with gusto
Though it was flat as gin.
Think you, when Vikings sat at board and sated
Their parches with the plenteous mead on tap,
They growled because it wasn’t aerated?
I’m pretty sure they didn’t care a rap.
Think you that Falstaff found it cause lor
dolor, ,
When stimulating sack by quarts he sanlc,
The fact there wasn’t what we’d term a collar
Upon the wine he drank?
Keats, it is true, if you should turn a seeker
To find what liquor most appealed to him.
Admits in verse his preference for “a beaker
With beaded bubbles winking at the brim.
But poets can’t expect that much adherence
On points like these should to their views
placed. . „
They bank too much upon a tid s appearan
Too little on its taste.
Ale will be ale, I think, adown the ages.
Though all the alcohol that’s with it blent
Decreases by inevitable stages _
From twelve to nine, from six to three p
cent.
Sparkling or still, Tong as its color pleases,
Foaming or not, I hold it pretty clear.
That some such tipple will, till Sheol freezes,
Be sold —and bought—as beer.
N.S.W.
MIDFORD.


“D.E.”: 8.8. C., like A.8.C., has a re-
spect for Leftists which approaches the
abject. It permits these worthies to let
themselves go in denunciation of Capi-
talism, Imperialism, Fascism and their
champions, real or alleged (to bright
young Leftists a Fascist is anyone who
doesn’t swallow Leftism, hook, line and
sinker), but criticism of Communism and
the different varieties of Reds and Pinks
is never heard from either concern. This
intolerance and pedantry led to 8.8. C.
being beautifully hoaxed. On Sundays
it puts over what it calls postscript talks,
and one was prepared and submitted by
Austin Hopkinson, M.P., or some other
“member of this House.” It was refused
on the ground that it was “Fascist, anti-
working-class and anti-Christian.” Hop-
kinson, telling the story to keenly-appre-
ciative fellow-Commoners, said the re-
jected address was “a careful paraphrase
of the Sermon on the Mount.”
* * si; *
“Pitt St.”: That tram of Percy Lind-
say’s (B. 17/2/’43) decorated with flowers
looks funny at first glance, but a second
glance made me wonder whether Syd-
ney’s street juggernauts wouldn’t com-
pensate for their dreadful noise if they
had a few pot plants stuck around them.
When George VI and his consort visited
Melbourne in 1927 as Duke and Duchess
of York, one of the sights of the deco-
rated city was an illuminated tram at
night. It is my most vivid recollection
of that week of display, and when hap-
pier days come and the Heffrons trouble
us no more with their lighting restric-
tions I’m going to see if the idea can’t
be made permanent.
* * * *
“Chevroford”: One of the longest
spasms of litigation in Victorian history
came to a conclusion the other day when
Lowe, J., gave judgment in the Banco
Court for the Vic. Egg and Egg Pulp
Marketing Board in three separate actions
against Carter Bros., poultry farmers, of
Werribee. The argument has lasted six
years and concerned the defendants’ con-
tention that the board was not validly
constituted. Another defence was that
the Commonwealth Government had
taken complete control of the distribution
of eggs under National Security regula-
tions. The judgment removes all doubt
as to producers’ liability to observe the
Marketing Act and obliges defendants to
supply to the board returns of all hen-
fruit sold and delivered to persons other
than agents of the board without the
board’s authority; also to pay the board
Id. a dozen for all eggs sold, the order
being made retrospective. The amount
involved will run into many thousands
of pounds. The Carters have a huge
poultry farm, one of the largest in the
world.
* * * *
“A.R.P.”: Our wardens’ post brightens
things up occasionally with a lecture
from anybody who’s willing to give it.
The other night an old salt was telling
his experiences of the Broome pearling
days of 40 years ago, and got to a part
where he and the crew of his lugger met
a party of blacks. “They were in their
birthday suits,” he said. “Even the gins.”
Came a startled voice from the rear:
“What, didn’t they have any coupons?”
* * * *
“Bundalinga”: As a result of war-time
regulations the Bank of N. S. Wales’s
branch at Jerilderie, raided by the Kelly
gang in 1879, is to be closed. It was the
first bank in Jerilderie and opened on
August 25, 1875. One Tarleton was
manager and E. R. Living was teller
when the holdup occurred. Copies of
correspondence between Tarleton and the
head office regarding the affair are still
in the branch’s archives.
* * * *
“Hatner”: Sydney’s “Wooden Age”
lasted quite a while. As late as the ’nine-
ties a timber merchant advertised in the
“S.M.H.” that he could supply “wooden
stone pillars of any size.” Pillars of
wood painted to look like stone were
frequently employed to make a building
look imposing. There are still some sur-
vivors in the suburbs, but the last in
central Sydney, on a building in the Hay-
market, disappeared a quarter of a cen-
tury ago. Amother use of timber passed
when this century was in its second
decade and Sydney gave up the wood-
blocking of its main streets. Australian
hardwoods made splendid paving
material, and on many thoroughfares the
blocks still underlie successive layers of
bitumenised surface.
“T.M.”: “Hamer’s” memory played
him false when he wrote, referring to the
’eighties (B. 13 /1 / ’43), “those were the
days when every [Sydney] street corner
had its pub—many street intersections
had one on each corner.” I knew Sydney
well 50 and 60 years ago, and am
positive there was no intersection
with its four pubs, though there were
some with three. In the ’nineties Niagara
(a small goldfields town in W.A.) claimed
the only street intersection in Australia
sporting four pubs.
V * * *
“Ear Punisher”: Somebody recently
deprived “The Man with the Donkey,” of
Gallipoli fame, of his reins in Mel-
bourne. This piece of vandalism moved a
daily-newspaper correspondent to come
out with the novel aesthetic theory that it
is a mistake to place a statue, however
small, on a level with the gazing public,
as statues represent ideals and should be
placed above the heads of the people, not
brought down to their level. It is this
notion, no doubt, that accounts for the
Japanese objection to anybody being
higher than the Mikado, so that two-
storeyed houses have to be vacated when
the ruler goes by in procession. It doesn’t
hold in art, though. A statue is meant
to be looked at, and the best position to
look at it from is the viewpoint from
which the sculptor made it. The only
justification for putting most of Mel-
bourne’s public statuary above the heads
of the public is that they are such darned
bad art that the further out of sight they
are placed the better it is for everyone
concerned.
* V * *
“Friday Island” :• I must challenge
“M.B’s” (B. 11/2/’43) nomination of De
Gaulle as winner of the Big Feet com-
petition. Superior is the claim of Admiral
Dudley de Chair, affectionately known to
the lower deck as “Trotters.” His heart
was as big as his feet. An old shipmate,
after a sympathetic interview at N.S.W.
“ Gentlemen , the Man-power Officer !”
Government House, remarked that an-
other old seafarer was also out of work.
Inquiring his name, “Trotters” said “I
remember —he stroked my cutter in a
race against an American ship and won
us the ‘bucket of dollars’ trophy. I’ll
try to get him a job, too.” He did.
* * * *
“Spasebo”: General Tojo, in blaming
the attack on Pearl Harbor on to Ameri-
can “impoliteness,” probably was per-
fectly serious about the allegation. Im-
politeness has a much more sinister con-
notation in Japan than in most Western
countries. To call a person impolite is
much worse than to call him a low
scoundrel. In pre-war days a Melbourne
hostess entertained a party of Nipponese
officers from a visiting warship to dinner
and everything was done to make their
visit pleasant. But they stayed on and
on and midnight passed, then two o’clock
and four. Finally, at 5.30, the senior
guest rose with obvious embarrassment
and said: “Madam, excuse. We must
be on ship by six. We go now.” They
knew no polite way in which to bring
their stay to an end and at last had to
act in desperation.
* * * *
“Bumpkin”: It was a hot, drowsy
afternoon with the bees buzzing and the
water of the near-by creek gurgling in-
vitingly, but the Land Army girl cared
for none of these things. She was down
on her knees feverishly weeding an acre
of onions. Suddenly a fusillade of shots
rang out, a row of steel-hatted heads
simultaneously popped up along the bank
of the creek and a company of soldiers
appeared stealthily creeping backwards.
“Get off me onions,” screamed the
Land Army Girl. “Sh-sh! ” said the
sergeant, putting his finger to his lips.
“You’ll apprise the enemy of our where-
abouts.” “I don’t care about that,”
shouted the L.A.G. “Get off those
onions. Aren’t we trying to fill your
beastly stomachs? Anyhow, what are
you up to?” “We’re engaged on an oftt-
flanking movement to prevent the enemy
seizing that bridge over there,” explained
the sergeant. “Oh, are you?” remarked
the Land Army Girl, somewhat mollified,
especially as the company was now show-
ing due respect to her onions. “Are you
supposed to be the Japs?” “Aw, we don’t
look as bad as that, do we?” the sergeant
chuckled.
* % * *
“X.S.”: The theft of Pierre Edouard
Frere’s “Cottage Interior” from the Vic.
Nat. Gallery is not the first of its kind.
In 1926 Sir David Wilkie’s “The Gentle
Shepherd” vanished from the walls. It has
never been seen since, to the great relief
of the trustees, no doubt.
ijs * ❖
“Pawang”: Another of those unneces-
sary tragedies has occurred in New York.
A Mrs. Anne Kaufman, whose husband
had recently died, took the life of her
child, aged three, and then committed
suicide, leaving a note asking the Rocke-
feller Institute to accept the child’s body
so that an autopsy could be conducted
with the object of discovering a cure for
dystrophy, the incurable disease from
which the infant suffered. There are
three things a normal mother can love
her child for. She can love it for what it
is, for what it was and for what it may
be. If it becomes an imbecile, while she
can still love it for what it has been, she
can’t love it for what it is or for what
it may be. When people can’t feel the
love they think they should feel, the con-
flict between their beliefs and their feel-
ings not infrequently ends in such tra-
gedies as that described. If some friend
had been able to show Mrs. Kaufman
the nature of this conflict she might have
been encouraged to go on.
“Caesar’s Ghost”: Julius Knight was
not the only mummer to recover quickly
from an illness when he saw the show
doing excellently with an understudy in
his place (B. 3/2/’43). There was the
time when Lillian Lollipop had an illness
which was mostly bad temper and, de-
claring that she could not go on, waited
for the management to bend its knees to
her. But the management, fed up, put
Flossie Fluffitop into the part and Lil-
lian into a private hospital. Flossie did
rather well in the role, but she and the
whole company got a surprise in the
third act when, before Flossie could make
her entrance (one of the best in her part),
she found herself forestalled. Lillian,
her courage and indignation buttressed
with sundry potations, had arrived at the
theatre and taken the opportunity to
anticipate her hated rival’s entrance. The
audience, though doubtless puzzled by
unaccountable changes in the voice and
appearance of the heroine, had no idea of
the drama going on behind the scenes.
Lillian was captured after her next exit,
and all hands not actively on the stage
were told off to keep her from stealing
other entrances; and an unpleasant job
it was, too. It was when the whole co.
had to be on stage for the curtain that
the drama reached its climax. A puzzled
hero found himself flanked by two
heroines, and while he was debating
which to clutch they solved the problem
by both throwing themselves in his arms,
their heads meeting with a crack. When
the curtain fell on that tableau it stayed
down, though the audience roared with
joy for five minutes.
* * * *
“Pawang”: Shortage seems to create
demand. Now it is the turn of the
tomato. Simply and solely because of
the publicity given to the fruit or vege-
table it has become almost a matter of
life and death for the Melbourne citi-
zen to supply himself with tomatoes, and
he will pay black-market prices. This
obsessional demand is one of the prin-
cipal causes of the shortage, not the ras-
cality of dealers and the greed of growers.
It is the same with beer. I said to a
young woman: “What have you got in
your bag?” “A bottle of ale,” she
declared with a note of triumph. She
was taking it home to a family that had
previously never ever dreamt of having
liquor with its dinner!
* * * *
“Feng-Shui” defends the Chinese:
Like “Fong Tsz” (B. 10/2/’43), I was also
in China before the 1914-18 war, and, although
I did not see any example of Chinese justice
as dramatic as the one described by him, I
heard enough about it to dread getting into its
clutches. Nevertheless, I fancy that “Fong
Tsz” got his notions of China largely from
the foreign papers. How would he explain
the fact that thousands of Europeans lived
outside the areas of foreign jurisdiction and
found the Chinaman easier to live with than
their own fellow-countrymen? How would he
explain the high regard that “Chinese” Mor-
rison, Robert Hart, R. F. Johnstone, the English
Buddhist, and Bertrand Russell, the philosopher,
had for their Celestial neighbors? It is true
that, when some insensitive missionary erected
a church with a tall steeple which upset the
feng-shui of a whole province, the mob,
its prejudices violated, got nasty. The mis-
sionary’s country would then send a gunboat.
The Protestant Kaiser avenged the murder of
two Catholic missionaries by sending an ex-
pedition which killed a lot of Chinese and
annexed a Chinese province. But by and large,
considering the amount of provocation the
Chinese have suffered at the hands of their Cau-
casian guests, they have been the most tolerant
people in the world’s history. Which reminds
me. I was watching the evening service in a
Buddhist monastery outside Ningpo when an
American missionary, with a dozen young
men and women disciples, entered. The mis-
sionary’s disgust at Buddhist methods of wor-
ship was apparent on his face, out came his
hymn-book and the party started singing. The
monks quietly filed out and left him in full
possession. They may have reflected that he
had a fleet of battleships behind him, but more
likely they thought the poor fellow had not
been instructed in good manners and were
sorry for him. In this particular monastery
foreign missionaries were allowed to occupy
the monks’ cells on their annual holidays, and
lots of therp availed themselves of the privilege.
Would Chinese religionists be accorded the
same privilege in any Western country?
* * * *
“Emmac”: I agree with “K.” (B.
20/1 / ’43) on the subject of the printed
word. I’ll go further, though, and can
see in words, meaning regardless, distinct
“expressions” which call to mind human
faces. Many a time a word has caught
my eye because it bears what is, to me,
an unmistakable resemblance to some
acquaintance, and not necessarily anyone
I’ve recently encountered either. For
instance, the, French aveuglement (blind-
ness) is the image of a red-headed lass
with whom I shared a school desk, while
“glass” looks like a man who brought
the bread around some time back. Simi-
larly, there are snub-nosed words, un-
shaven words, fat words and thin words
recognisable for their “facial” character-
istics, no matter to what language they
belong.
* * * *
“Strict Veg.”: Victorian Premier Dun-
stan’s disappointment at the failure of
his Dietitians’ Bill to pass the Leg. Coun-
cil doesn’t distress me. Very little is
scientifically known about diet, and to
institutionalise it would be as dangerous
to progress as the institutionalising of art
has been. The old boy was right who
observed that one man’s meat is another
man’s poison ; in nine cases out of ten
our likes and dislikes with regard to food
are psychologically conditioned. To the
individual who first smelt olive oil when
a careless nurse put it in his ear to cure
an earache and burnt him, the smell of
olive oil would ever afterwards conjure
up a painful memory. So if he went to
Spain, where everything is cooked in olive
oil, even the bread, his memories would
tend to stand between him and liking
Spanish cooking. Rabelais loved rich
food, and is traditionally said to have
died drunk, but he lived a long life and
wrote a lot of books, so his diet must
have been a suitable one for his case.
Another person eats dry toast and drinks
tea and bothers himself about vitamin
content and similar scientific bogeys and
dies of malnutrition.
« * * *
“Hassan”: The announcement that
legally the taxing authorities in Austra-
lia have no right to regard the taxpayer
as being perpetually one year in arrears,
accompanied as it is by a mess of slip-
pery words to the effect that “in practice”
the law doesn’t mean a thing, reminds
me of a very enlightening experience that
befell me on my travels in Taxistan. I
was arrested and cast into prison by sol-
diers who stole my passport, on a charge
that I was a vagrant, having no passport.
For 27 years I languished in a noisome
dungeon. Then my sad case came to the
ears of a noble sheikh of those parts, and
he promised me that I should have
audience of the Sultan Komishnur and
that justice would be done. So I came
before the Sultan and my friend the
sheikh produced my stolen passport.
Quoth the Sultan: “This poor man, then,
hath been illegally imprisoned on a false
charge for 27 years. Guiltless he demon-
strably is, and he hath a clear case for
compensation. So much for the legal
aspect. On the practical side, however,
the Sultan Komishnur cannot afford to
admit error, so” (and here he clapped his
hands). Three seconds later my head rolled
on the Sultan’s priceless Persian carpet.


ABORIGINALITIES
“Propalong”: “Tough trips?” snorted
Hergott Joe. “You lads don’t know what
they're like. Take the time I was
caught halfway down the Birdsville track
with 2000 head o’ bullocks. We strung
the mob into a waterhole at the end of
one dry stage, an’ when the tail got in—
y’ couldn’t see the lead f’r dust —we found
the soak was dry an’ we just had t’ push
on. Over eighty miles them beasts cov-
ered without a drink, an’ with the tem-
perature 120 in the bag. Then one day
when I’m ridin’ up near the lead one o’
them ninety-mile-’n’-hour thunderstorms
come up. One minute we’re half-drowned
an’ the next we’re dry again in the scorch-
in’ sun, with the rain tearin’ on two mile
away. Then me old stockhorse gets into
his stride as the tail o’ the mob thunders
past us; the whole 2000 head had cleared
after the rain. Well, I galloped f’r two
hours, all the other blokes bein’ left
behind, an’ still ahead o’ me was the
gallopin’ cattle an’ the racin’ thunder-
storm. Next day we’re still chasin’ ’em
through young green stuff that’d come
up in the heat after the rain. That after-
noon, as I come over a sandhill, I heard
a hell of an explosion, an’ I didn’t know
nothin’ more for a while. When I come
to I got away from me prad—he’d been
killed in the big bang—an’ then I seen
what’d happened. The mob had hit a
big patch o’ clover that’d come up in a
canegrass swamp an’, gorgin’ ’emselves,
the whole flamin’ 2000 head blew up
simultaneous! ”
* * * *
“Avon”: The homesick early settlers
in Maoriland did their best to acclimatise
every bird, beast, fish, tree and flower of
the Old Dart. They are to be congratu-
lated on their achievements in the realm
of silviculture, and they had a great deal
of success with trout and salmon, but
they should have drawn the line at spar-
rows and starlings, and at rabbits. They
didn’t, and a later generation, learning
nothing by that sad experience, estab-
lished herds of deer —red deer at that.
Of all imported nuisances the red deer
have proved the worst. They take to the
climate (kindlier than that of their north-
ern highlands) and to the vegetation (also
immensely richer and more nourishing
than that of Bonnie Scotland and the
North Countree), and they increase and
multiply like mice. They eat up the
young trees, break down those of a little
later growth, stamp and loosen the forest
soil so that roots are loosened and great
trees come crashing down in every rain,
and generally play Old Harry with the
forests they inhabit. Failing other
measures the N.Z. Army has a go at
them with tommy-guns every now and
then. In three months 2450 were
slaughtered in a military manner and
they’re still a menace.
* * % *
“M.U.R.”: I hope “H.E.R.” (B.
3/2/’43) soon gets out of that Dayles-
ford country where they told him “pep-
permint, box, messmate and stringybark”
stakes, driven into the ground, took root.
He ought to get out before somebody
kids him up one of the vegetables and
then cuts it down. And he’d better sort
himself out by explaining the difference
between messmate and stringybark. I’m
mug enough to believe they’re the same.
* * * *
“Basalt”: Many and varied were the
methods Dad had tried to rid our pad-
dock of the stranger bullock, till, as a
last resort, he yarded him and tied an
empty five-pound jam-tin to his tail, then
yelled to the kids to open the gate and
stand clear. Well, if my fancy for the
Melbourne Cup had come down the
Flemington straight as fast as that bul-
lock went down the road to the boun-
dary fence, I wouldn’t be rolling out of
bed at 1 a.m. to milk 40 cows. A large
wooden gate ornamented the fence, but
that beast had no respect for private
property —just hurtled straight through
and smashed it to smithereens. Long
and blasphemous were Dad’s lamenta-
tions, but never again did that pest return.
* * * *
“Nigel”: Had “Sou’ - west” (B.
20/1/’43) merely asserted that “fracture
always strikes downward” and been con-
“OUR cook's A.W.L."
tent to leave the matter there he could
claim with some logic that at least he
wasn’t entirely wrong. He cites the case
of a loose boulder shattered by plugs of
gelignite exploded on its upper surface,
and explains that atmospheric pressure,
acting as an obstacle, caused the down-
ward reaction. This theory, unfortu-
nately for the exclusiveness of his claim,
is just as good an argument any other
way about. Atmospheric pressure is
equal in all directions. Every miner is
familiar with the shattering effect when
a gelignite charge is exploded against the
under-surface of an overhanging or pro-
jecting rock. If it isn’t caused by the
fracture striking upward, to what is it
due? The miner, however, usually finds
it convenient to lay his charge down
upon a floor rather than suspend it with
a plaster against a ceiling or a side.
Hence, perhaps, the prevalence of the
downward - striking notion. Generation
of the gases is so sudden as to preclude
selecting the path of least resistance.
* * * *
“Omit”: Aboliars can prattle about
the sentry efforts of cockatoos, magpies,
crows and the like, but the suburban-
reared bulbul takes a lot of stoushing.
Where ripe fruit abounds this imported
tick-tacker takes a position on the top
limb of a near-by tree while the breth-
ren have refreshment. And they appear
to do it in relays. The slightest move
(even by a dog) is telegraphed by quick,
sharp squeaks which are quite different
from those of any other bird I know, and
then the brigade moves off. This year
the bulbuls have added tomatoes to their
menu. I have found the best scarecrow
for them is a piece of cork in which a
dozen or more feathers have been im-
bedded, and hung out on a long pole.
through the treetop. Bulbuls, like our
own bower bird, have a fancy for bright
colors to line the nest, and pieces of
colored cotton, cloth or paper are fre-
quently found.
sH H* *
“Oxmead”: 1 can find some excuse for
the English papeEs Service Columnist
who informed an inquirer that “a jam-
buck is a stockwhip used for rounding
up sheep or cattle” (B. 10/2/’43). ‘Jum-
buck,” even when correctly spelled, is a
word seldom heard outside Australia, and
with the “a” it was quite natural for
anyone to confuse it with the Boer
“sjambok.”
* * * *
“C.E.”: Old Bob squinted up at the
sun. Midday. Time he was getting home
for dinner. Might as well have a smoke
in the shade first, though ; then he’d mend
that hole in the fence before he went. He
was leaving when his mong ran a rabbit
to earth, so Bob dug it out and fed the
canine. Getting at last to the road he
saw a cloud of dust on the horizon. He
found a log and waited. “Coin’ to camp
f’r dinner?” he asked the drover as the
mob strung past. “Had it,” was the
reply, “All the same, a spell won’t hurt
’em.” Forty minutes later, with the
weather and markets exhausted, the pair
were exchanging views on sheepbreed-
ing, when Smithers’s trap pulled up. The
weather and markets were again thrashed
out. “See y’ later,” said Smithers after
a bit. “Got t’ go along and see Ken-
nedy.” “Reckon I’ll come with y’ then,”
announced Bob. “I got t’ see him meself
sometime, so I might’s well go now an’
save a walk.” Returning an hour later.
Smithers was explaining about a sapling
he’d noticed over Bob’s fence half a mile
further down. “If y’ like t’ come along
now,” he suggested, “I’ll give y’ a hand
t’ lift it off.” Bob seemed a bit uncer-
tain. “Awright; s’pose it won’t take
long d’y’ think?” he asked dubiously,
“Y’ see, the missus’s goin’ out this after-
noon, an’ y’ know what women’s like
at such times. She told me t’ be sure an’
come home early f’r dinner t’day.”
* * * *
“Eureka”: There died recently a pic-
turesque old swaggie who was known
throughout the Monaro district (N.S.W.)
as “The Referee,” a pseudonym earned
through his habit of carrying a set of
boxing-gloves in his swag. Though
never known to have donned them him-
self, he liked to see a good fight, and
whenever he could slyly start an argu-
ment between a couple of fellows.
When words got hot he would produce
the gloves and offer to act as ref. He
also visited road construction camps and
shearing sheds and organised tourna-
mpnt „ &
’** * *
“Betcha”; The mercury had tipped
108, and Dan, limping wearily in clouds
of dust, mopped the rivulets from his
eyes with a sweat-stiffened shirtsleeve as
he urged on his sluggish mob. Noon
brought him the shade of a straggling
bunch of suckers. He strung the mob,
counted them, and discovered there was
one short. Blast it, he’d have to go
back and comb the side gullies! Turn-
ing to his hack he unslung a couple of
day-old calves, found their mothers,
tightened one of the nag’s shoes, and,
after rationing an issue from the water-
bag to a couple of sore-footed mongs.,
drained the remainder. Next he roped
a staked beast that needed attention,
turned back a bawling youngster, then,
unwrapping a small parcel that had hung
on his sadddle since four that morning,
called on heaven to witness the mean-
ness of Mrs. Bung. Blue and Nigger
each accepted one of the dried chunks
that passed for sandwiches, and Dan was
crunching the last choking morsel when
a de-luxe model slid to a stop on the
roadway opposite. From the back seat
a white hand waved towards the figure
sprawling in the shade. “Just look at
that!” drawled a female voice. “What
a life these drovers have! And when
there’s so many man-sized jobs in the
country waiting to be done, too!”
* * * *
“Keel Row”: “Chuck ’em into deep
water and they will swim” may work in
some cases (B. 27/1/’43), but I cannot
square it with a strong tradition I met
among my own forebears, who have had
brine in their blood since Noah. The
majority of seamen of the old school
never learned to swim, on the theory that
in case of shipwreck drowning was a
long-drawn-out agony for the swimmer.
The exceptions I met had learned the art
before they went to sea or had had train-
ing-ship or naval experience. The high
tally of lost lives from shipwreck within
sight of our treacherous strip of coast
testified to how few, despite physical fit-
ness and a prospect of survival, found
their natural paddles when committed to
deep water.
•k "k
“Yokel”: The outback Australian is
certainly adaptable. When I was young
charcoal-burning was a mystic art, some-
thing best left to Italians and other
Southern Europeans and not to be
mastered by the British. Recently, scout-
ing around the country with a garage
proprietor in search of “black
gas,” I found all sorts of bush-
men busy turning the waste
timber of their lands into
motor fuel. It is a trade not
easily mastered, with plenty of
hard graft attached; yet in
most cases, with no more in-
struction than a leaflet from
the Agriculture Department,
these men have made a suc-
cess of it. In one barren spot
among the hills 6ft. of 1914-18
A.I.F. was lone-handedly un-
covering a kiln which he
reckoned would pan out a
clear 100 bags. Pushing the
old mortgage back and with a
seaside trip in prospect for the
wife and kids, his only real
trouble was that he didn’t have
enough water on the place for
“a man to have a good wash
all over ; and this charcoal dust
certainly does stick in the
pores.” With so many expert
charcoal-burners there should
be room somewhere for an
Australian charcoal-iron indus-
try, charcoal-iron being the
metal from which the highest-
grade razors and cutlery are
made. Previously Sweden had
almost a monopoly of the in-
dustry.
“Naturala”: In the W.A. jarrah coun-
try recently I came on a hive of runaway
Carniolans. Short, dumpy, grey fellows,
more like winged bugs, these bees flit
from flower to flower so quickly that one
wonders if they really are gathering
nectar. But they are industrious honey-
hoarders, outstripping both the Italian
and the black. Born to the Austrian
Alps, they probably find the well-flowered
Australian bush a nectar goldmine. They
breed quickly, and now that colonies are
escaping from the bondage of man they
may well fill the place left by the virtual
destruction of the native bee. Their tree
hives, too, would be almost as easily
robbed, for, although possessed of a sting,
the Carniolan is not nearly so fond of
using it as the Italian and the black.
*■ * * *
“Mat’s Mate”: The big fellow got on
the Melbourne train at Mildura and had
reached Lake Hattah when he realised
he’d left his overcoat behind. It was
a new coat, and Mat got off the train at
Ouyen, slipped off the end of the plat-
form, went to a pub and stayed there
till next morning, when he caught a train
to Mildura. Having retrieved the over-
coat, he presented himself at the next
Melbourne train out of Mildura and was
stopped by the ticket-checker. “Hey.
said that worthy, “this ticket is dated yes-
terday.” Mat eyed him and the guard,
who was giving the engineer the starting
signal. “Ribuck,” he yelled, charging past
the barrier and grabbing his ticket, fa-
it up with your boss. I can’t help it 1
the blasted train’s a day late.” He was
on the train before the checker cou
move. At Ouyen a careful check 01
tickets was made, but Mat had adop
the old dodge of persuading several otne
passengers to smudge the dates on t 1
tickets and the breeze died down.
MEN IN GREEN.
Oh, there were fifteen men in green,
Each with a tommy-gun.
Who leapt into my ’plane at dawn;
We rose to meet the sun.
We set our course towards the east
And climbed into the day
Till the ribbed jungle underneath
Like a giant fossil lay.
We climbed towards the distant range,
Where two white paws of cloud
Clutched at the shoulders of the pass;
The green men laughed aloud.
They did not fear the summer’s sun
That climbed the mountain crest
And hung from ropes invisible
With lightning in its breast.
They did not fear the summer’s sun
In whose hot centre lie
A hundred hissing cannon shells
For the unwatchful eye.
And when on Dobadura’s field
We landed, each man raised
His thumb towards the open sky;
But to their right I gazed.
For fifteen men in jungle green
Rose from the kunai grass
And came towards the ’plane. My men
In silence watched them pass:
It seemed they looked upon themselves
In Time’s prophetic glass.
Oh, there were some leaned on a stick
And some on stretchers lay,
But few walked on their own two feet
In the early green of day.
tThey did not heed the ape-like cloud
That climbed the mountain crest;
They did not fear the summer’s sun
With bullets for their breast.)
Their eyes were bright; their looks were
dull;
Their skin had turned to clay.
Nature had met them in the night
And stalked them through the day.
And I think still of men in green
On the Soputa track,
With fifteen spitting tommy-guns
To keep a jungle back.
R.A.A.F.
DAVID CAMPBELL.


“90 Mile”: A few weeks ago I was
reading with bated breath of the achieve-
ments of a Russian woman sharpshooter,
Ludmilla Something-or-otherski. Allow-
ing for press exaggeration, Luddy must be
a good shot, but I’ll bet she never in all
her born days potted a fish under
water or a tiger snake “leaping into action
when disturbed among rocks,” using a
.22 from a moving dinghy. So I want
to know why something isn’t done about
Mrs. “1.M.H.” and “Narrin” (B.
17/2/’43), who claim to be able to per-
form these feats. Let them be brought
together, suitably armed and turned
loose up north, and neither Churchill nor
Curtin need worry any more about the
Pacific front. Of course, Ludmilla’s
chagrin may have to be reckoned with,
but this isn’t a time to bother about
female envy.
* * * *
“Archbell”: I unearthed and chopped
in half with a spade a big centipede, and
both ends made off in different directions.
Immediately a crowd of meat-ants ap-
peared and took on the tail half. They
left the front end severely alone. It
wasn’t until it showed no sign of life
that the meaties approached it, and then
only after some very cautious recon-
naissance.
* * * *
“Old-timer”; After a week on his new
job Curly hopped on his bike and rode
the 16 miles into town. Late that night
he headed for home. At a point about
four miles from the homestead, where the
bike-pad left the road and cut across a
bend through a patch of scrub, a six-wire
fence crossed the pad. Curl had lifted
his bike over the fence on the way to
town and, clipping along in the dark at
around 12 miles an hour, it had just
occurred to him that the fence must be
pretty close —when he ran into it. Next
he knew he was lying on his back, with
the bike on his face and the stars look-
ing down. Curl pushed the bike aside,
felt one or two sore spots experimentally,
then lifted the grid over the fence and
rode on, slightly dazed but congratulat-
ing himself on getting out of it alive.
After a bit Curl got worried. The home-
stead should have loomed up by this. Dis-
mounting,, he peered round in the dark.
“Gorbloome!” he thought. “If a man
gets slewed in this country he’d ride till
daylight.” Then he heard dogs and
headed that way, to find himself back in
the town. He and the bike had gone
clean over that fence in the collision.
Curl reckons he swore all the way home
and only repeated himself twice.
* * * *
“Naturala”: When the big fishing-boat
came in it pulled alongside the jetty while
the crew sorted the catch. Over the side
into at least 15ft. of water went a dozen
or so small fry. Happening along an
hour later I found the boat gone and a
small cormorant, commonly called a
diver, having the time of its life bring-
ing up the discarded fish one by one.
Just how it sighted that clutter of dead
fish on the bottom at 15ft. has me
interested.
* * * 9
“M. 8”: One thing about these “bone”
names (B. 17/2/’43), as well as most Aus-
tralian towns with abo. titles, is their
phonetic beauty and the readiness with
which they can be used in the sort of
verse made popular by The Bulletin
over the past 50 years. I doubt if any
other English-speaking country has such
a wealth of mellifluous place-names for
the rhymester to draw upon. Anyone
with an ear for verse has only to contem-
plate Warrumbungle, Cootamundra,
Moorabool, Wamboota, Terowie, Omeo,
“ Didn't you hear the pipe, 'Off caps and jumpers; fall in for physical
drill'?”
Meekatharra and a thousand more to set
lines (mostly of a balladic strain) run-
ning in his head. And practically all of
them are musical, with Araluen first. I’ll
admit Maoriland is also well served with
names likely to inspire poets—-Wan-
ganui, Te Anau, Rotorua and so forth —
and America with Mississippi, Arizona,
lowa, sagamore, manitou, caribou, etc. ;
but I think Australia’s ahead of them,
my natural prejudice notwithstanding.
“W.P.”: “Nipper” (B. 10/2/’43), in
commenting on the number of “bone”
towns in the Ma State, said “it
wouldn’t be surprising if there were a
Jawbone or a Shinbone tucked away
somewhere in the mulga.” Not in the
mulga, but in the wheat country about
six miles north of Wellington (N.S.W.)
there is a Jawbone!
“Col-col”: An hour’s browsing over a
map revealed a “Yalebone” tucked away
between Roma and Surat, so the Queen
State can keep her head (and tail) up.
Remarkable how many Australian town-
ships have “ra” endings. Queensland can
produce at least 75 of them, like Caloun-
dra, Tallebudgera, Wanora and Kabra.
The outstanding feature of abo. phonetics
is the persistent recurrence of the “oo”
and burred “r” sounds, as in Boolburra,
Goowarra and Moonmerra, while Syd-
ney’s Woolloomooloo goes fifty-fifty with
Queensland’s Coomooboolaroo. My own
19-year-old nipper, whose hobby was the
study of abo. life and customs, had an
interesting theory about this, but at the
moment he is closely studying the habits
of the Nippon tribe in New Guinea from
the business end of a gun.
* * * *
“Esk D.”: By mentioning that euca-
lypts sometimes come into growth from
a stake driven in a moist position it
appears from “Kenwood” (B. 3/2/’43)
that I have qualified as a propagationist
who might well benefit the nation. Not
so. The odds are certainly too high for
a nursery proposition even if there were
any apparent advantages. Eucalypts do
not hybridise, and seed will come true to
type only as far as the locality permits.
Grafts or propagated cuttings, the ex-
ception more than the rule, won’t repro-
duce original features any more than
seed if soil and climatic conditions are
unfavorable. Otherwise, I might seri-
ously consider perpetuating my name in
a snow-gum plantation at The Alice.
* * * *
“B. 4”: Below the bridge just after sun-
down a two-foot eel leisurely coursed its
way down the yard-wide mountain rill.
The eel swam, reversed, drifted and
rolled along the sun-warmed cataract in
sheer ecstasy. Suddenly a lithe black
form shot from a tangle of grass and
bracken, and the eel was seized by the
snout. In a flurry of foam and mud the
writhing, squirming bodies battled and
sinewy black-and-red coils slipped down
the slimy length of the squirming eel.
Still retaining his nose hold the snake
gained the bank, and proceeded to engulf
his victim. As the eel was being packed
away, a sudden dart on its part, while
helping the process, evidently upset the
snake, as he violently squirmed and
twisted in protest, but, recovering, went
on with the meal. Finally the job was
accomplished, but the snake appeared un-
decided whether to go or stay, as the eel
still rolled and twisted in the pantry.
While Joe was wondering what to do
about it, 1 settled the matter for him with
a waddy.
sje H 5
“Micksy”: Besides the sparrow (B.
10/2/’43) other good friends of the horti-
culturist are the maligned hornets.
They’ve had a mud home under the
verandah for years and are never dis-
turbed. The reason: a nest fell down
one day, and on examining it I discovered
the good job they were doing in making
meals from grubs and other pests. But
teach the youngsters not to pelt sticks or
stones at them or there’ll be trouble.
“These mossies are giving me hell!”
“Looby”: Lucy came back to the
farm for the week-end with first-aid and
anatomy lectures ringing in her youthful
ears. Anxious to impress, she com-
mented at table on the wonderful
mechanism which constitutes the act of
eating. “To put it briefly,” she said,
“the food, broken up and mixed with the
saliva, is collected by movements of the
tongue and cheeks into a mass and thrust
to the back of the mouth ; the soft palate
is then raised, and as the food passes the
fauces their muscular pillars contract on
it and squeeze it on into the pharynx.”
Lucy paused briefly for breath. Dad was
listening intently, elbows on table, knife
and fork in the air. “Then,” Lucy
finished, “the pharynx squeezes the mass
along past the opening of the larynx,
closed by the epiglottis, into the oesopha-
gus, and this, by muscular contraction,
carries it on into the stomach.” She
seemed likely to say more, but Dad
broke in. “Well, girl,” he said with
great respect, “that new way might be
right enough, but the old way’ll do me.
And you can sum up in three words:
bite, chew and swaller.”
sji * * *
“Teepee Ck.”: I’m pleased that someone
has been able to clear the kea of the
charge of sheep-killing, and also that “P.
Hill” (B. 20/1 / ’43) stands as a champion
of the harmlessness of the wedge-tailed
eagle, because I’ve got a fresh indictment
against another member of the feathered
tribe. In W.A. after years of experiment
they have succeeded in growing pinus
insignis in a country that Nature seems
to have especially designed for hard-
woods. It is a success much appre-
ciated by the black cockatoo, who, with
that strange adaptability of the bird tribe,
has found that the seed cones of the
pines are quite good eating. Which
wouldn’t matter much in normal times,
but nowadays, with Mars in command of
the situation, when neither seed nor
seedlings can be imported, the activities
and appetites of the sable-plumaged birds
come near to bringing the afforestation
of the softwood to a standstill.
* * *
“Padflogger”: I always admire the
first bloke who broke a wheeltrack
through virgin country. A dray, of
course, with the moke pushing its nose
into bush that had never known anything
save the foot of the abo. since the be-
ginning of time. Entrance is generally
between two big trees, a gateway often
just sufficient to clear the naves. Then
on it goes, round that other big tree,
then a detour to avoid that fallen trunk,
then a bit to the right to dodge the big
boulder. More serpentine windings be-
tween trees, with a teeth-jarring drag
over the wide table of granite or blue-
stone, the dry bed of a creek that will
be a swirling flood in wet weather. And
so it goes on, mile after mile of twist-
ings and turnings that ultimately emerge
on to a place one never expected to
reach. After the first dray got through
the second-comer eyed the route doubt-
fully, but reckoned where another had
been he could follow. After that came
the ruts of years of travel, until the day
when the son or grandson of the original
track-maker decides that he’ll have a go
at getting the truck through. After that
it becomes a motor road. Finally along
come the shire surveyor and the road
gang. Kinks are eliminated, a few trees
felled, and then a surprised district tells
wonderingly how the road from Hill
End Bend to Flynn’s that used to be a
matter of 25 miles has somehow got
shortened to 18.
* % %
“Abo.”: Last time I met Dan he was
looking, for a wombat skin to send to a
pal in the forces. “Nuthin’ to touch it
as a flea-catcher,” he said. “Make a
mat of it and it acts' like a charm. Used
to keep one hung over the head of the
bed at night, but the missus slung it out.
Trouble with women is they’re too
fussy! ”
4c % ifc sjs
“N.”: “Snakes is where y’ don’t ex-
pect ’em” was regarded as gospel in my
boyhood, and, although a creek or patch
of cracked ground running through a
hay paddock is worth prospecting, the
inference that you find brown snakes by
accident and never by hunting for them
is fairly true. But here on the Murray,
where the tiger is the rule, it’s different.
Anyone who knows the brutes can go out
and find tiger snakes. They are most
easily seen during the first warm week in
September. Row around the dead trees
in the lagoons, especially those trees
with thick, cracked bark, between 11 a.m.
and 4 p.m., and you’ll find Joe sunning
himself in the forks or, if it gets hot,
hiding behind the bark. In the after-
noon you see him exploring under the
bark for frogs. From December to
January the weather is usually too hot
for the Blake ; hut don’t walk promiscu-
ously around the swamps after sunset.
THE DREAMS A SINGER DREAMS.
When cloud-drifts veil the sunlight
And shadow shrouds the range,
Weird are the dreams of singers,
Oh, wild their dreams and strange;
And down the tracks of vision
In dreams I often ride
With Ogilvie and Gordon
And “Banjo” at ray side.
The dust wrack floats behind us,
Light dust the hoof-fall stirs;
And I have reaped wild music,
The tinkle of their spurs.
I see the stirring finish
Of races Gordon rode,
And then in fancy linger
On leagues that Pardon strode;
The spell is yet unbroken,
This spell so sweet to me,
For Ogilvie is telling
The tales of Tringadee.
But Gordon hears the clamor
On tracks where colors glow;
The Bland is calling “Banjo”—
They shake our hands and go.
The clouds apart have drifted
And now the sunlight gleams,
And back to misty Scotland
Goes Ogilvie, in dreams.
And I, bereft and lonely,
With rough untutored hand
Am left to rhyme the hoofbeats.
The music of our land.
QUEENSLAND.
LEX McLENNAN.


The strongest ready-to-use glue for slicking emery cloth to
grinder discs—recommended for SHEARING-SHED work.
bavis
U MUJjJ
ud 'wS 'ymmmm w mmuo
40z., Boz., 160 z., 1-gallon sizes Hardware and general stores.
Australian, Mercantile, Land & Finance
Company, Limited
(INCORPORATED IN ENGLAND IN 1863)
WOOL, FAT STOCK, STORE AND STUD STOCK,
PRODUCE AND PROPERTY SALESMEN
General Manager for Australia: R. SINCLAIR SMITH.
ADVANCES MADE ON GRAZING PROPERTIES, ON STOCK, AND ON
CONSIGNMENTS OF WOOL, SKINS, HIDES, TALLOW, ETC.
LICENSED AUCTIONEERS, STOCK AND STATION AGENTS.
SYDNEY OFFICE: A. M. MURDOCH, Manager.
ALSO AT MELBOURNE, BRISBANE, NEWCASTLE, WAGGA, HENTY, HAY, MUKJifi,
TOWNSVILLE, CHARLEVILLE, BUENOS AIRES, LONDON.
GENERAL AGENTS IN NEW SOUTH WALES FOR NORTHERN ASSURANCE CO.. Liu.
THE MAN ON
THE LAND
"DON'T WORRY, I'M SENDING IT TO
GRAZCOS."
Raising Good Lambs.
“Rom Ney”: Next to breeding, the
thing most necessary to turn out the per-
fect fat lamb is continued growth from
birth to truck. Lambs mustn’t be
allowed to suffer a check; they’ll seldom
recover.
The best time to produce and rear the
lambs is during the season of best growth,
so that they can be turned off to market
the moment feed begins to go off. By
studying local conditions and planning
accordingly, any man with the area and
some breeding knowledge should find it
fairly easy to arrange his lambing to suit
his seasons.
Overstocking, too, must be watched. It
can suddenly become apparent overnight
and too late for remedy. It’s worth re-
membering that 500 first-class lambs will
return as much as 700 second-class, with
the addition to the breeder’s repute that
will make the selling agent eager for his
consignments and eager to bring them
before the best buyers. Don’t trust to
natural pastures to bring your lambs on
unless you’re dead sure of them. Only
rarely are prime lambs turned off with-
out supplementary feed of some sort,
whether in the form of improved pas-
tues or conserved fodder.
Most pastures can be improved by the
addition of rye grasses, Pkalaris tuberosa,
clover and the like, and there is always
lucerne, which can be grazed and cut for
hay. Oats, too, are a great stand-by.
They can be sown for grazing, for hay
or for grain and generally for all three.
Lambs topped off on green oats have
the bloom that buyers look for.
In addition.to feeding, some sort of
shepherding is necessary. Come down
heavily on stray dogs; see that there’s
shelter in the lamb paddocks, and keep
off the shooting pest who wants your
quail or hares.
Lucerne and Wheat.
“B. Cubbin”: Where there’s the prob-
lem of cutting down wheat acreage this
year it mightn’t be a bad idea to sow
lucerne with wheat as a cover crop. It’s
a good bet in any district with a rainfall
of 20in. or better, provided a good share
of that falls between April and October,
but it’s a bit of a gamble in areas of
lesser rainfall.
Though wheat is called a cover crop,
lucerne, in most parts, doesn’t need any
protection when young. The idea of the
wheat is to get a grain yield from the
area while establishing the lucerne stand,
and to have a fair pick of stubble, loose
grain, second-growth wheat and young
lucerne for the following winter.
Don’t sow a cover crop if you’re after
good lucerne hay; that will have to
come from a dense crop of fine-stemmed
lucerne. But for grazing, the wheat mix-
ture allows the setting of strong lucerne
plants, and when the stock come to graze
there’s a good mixture of plants and
stock don’t have tc be moved as fre-
quently as if grazing on lucerne alone.
Sowing wheat with lucerne also re-
duces the cost of establishing the stand.
The seedbed is prepared on whatever
fallow system is used, and even a moder-
ate wheat crop at the next harvest will
cover the costs, so that the lucerne is
set for about the cost of the seed.
Against this stands the fact that the
lucerne can’t be grazed heavily until its
second year.
Rate of the cereal-seed sowing, when
wheat or oats are sown with lucerne,
shouldn’t be more than 451 b. to the acre.
On heavy soils likely to cause a rank
growth, about 301 b. to the acre is
enough. The lucerne rate will vary from
31b. to 101 b, an acre, according to soil
and seasonal prospects.
Green Feed Substitute.
“Hux”: When there’s not enough
green feed for the pigs try linseed-meal in
the ration. It doesn’t contain vitamin A
and isn’t up to pasture standard, but its
protein content is as high as 30 p.c. Used
with skim-milk or meatmeal the protein
rises to 33 p.c. When skim-milk, meat-
meal and green feed are all short the lin-
seed can be increased to 50 p.c. of the
ration. As well as adding a dash of
variety to the cereal grains usually fed
in summer it’s a good laxative.
Ration proportions for pigs during the
creep period up to 801 b. should be 71b.
meatmeal and 31b. linseed-meal to every
901 b. of grain. From 801 b. to 1201 b.,
“What're you men supposed to be doing?”
“Fatigue duty, sir!”
meatmeal can be reduced to and
linseed-meal to 21b. From then on till
just before marketing cut down the meat-
meal to 3ilb. and the linseed to lylb.
Oily nature of the linseed makes it ad-
visable to discontinue it altogether two
weeks before marketing.
A herd fed on concentrates needs a
mineral lick of two parts slaked lime, two
parts bonemeal and one part salt. You
can add this to the ration at the rate of
2 p.c. or serve it in separate troughs.
Charcoal also helps digestion and absorbs
stomach gases.
Linseed-meal benefits the brood sow
when she can’t get green stuff. Two per
cent, before and 5 p.c. after farrowing
is ample. When linseed’s not available
50 p.c. of bran can replace pasture for
the last 10 to 14 days before birth. It
ensures easy bowel movement and a
good milk flow. Dry sows or sows in
early pregnancy do well on 30 p.c. to
50 p.c. of wheaten chaff. This shouldn’t
be fed to young pigs. Chaff that’s cut
very green and cured in the sun is rich in
vitamins A and D. When self-feeders are
not used, soak the chaff for 24 hours.
Then feed the liquid to the young pigs
and the soaked mass to the sows.
The Percheron.
“8.A.”: It is difficult to understand
why the Clydesdale is used throughout
Australia in preference to the Percheron.
It beats the Percheron for slow, heavy
work, but the latter is far more useful
for all-round farm and road work.
Smaller than the Clydesdale, the Per-
cheron is a powerful animal, with a com-
pact, well-ribbed-up body, full chest and
broad, strong quarters. The compara-
tively small, neat head is carried on a
fine deep neck, -and the shapely, well-
proportioned legs and feet give it the fine
free action so desirable in fast road work.
The distinctive color of the Per-
cheron, its fine action and the absence of
long hair on the legs and pasterns appear
to be the result of an infusion of Arab
blood about the time of the Napoleonic
wars. The Percheron is very popular in
the United States, and is used almost ex-
clusively throughout South America, ex-
cept for light draught work, which is
done by mules.
The South Americans have a horse re-
sembling the Yorkshire Roadster, but
standing on somewhat shorter legs. This
animal, which is bred by crossing the
Percheron with the Arab, gives excellent
service for coaching and light harness
work generally, and when crossed again
with the Arab produces one of the most
active, sure-footed and tireless weight-
carriers in the world. This is the type
used as a remount by the Chilian army,
and anyone who has seen the extremely
difficult country over which it is required
to operate can be in no doubt as to its
courage and endurance.
Keeping Seed Potatoes.
“Tuber McMurph”: If they’re to be
kept any length of time they’ll need pro-
tection against potato moth, especially in
warm coastal districts. Dusting with
either derris or pyridine is best, but
derris is hard to get. Pyridine is avail-
able and is cheaper; use it with kaolin
one to nineteen by weight, about a pound
of the dust to the bag.
If you have a large drum or barrel,
fix it so that it can be rotated, pop in
the spuds and dust and rotate for about
a minute, then bag the seed. If you
haven’t a rotator, pick a corner of the
shed with a smooth, clean floor or lay
down a 6ft. square of flat galvanised
iron. Enclose the space with boards
about six inches high. Empty a bag of
seed into the space and spread out in a
single layer. Then sprinkle the required
quantity of dust over them through a
perforated tin. Next, using a wide-
mouthed shovel, put about a third of the
dusted potatoes into the bag and shake
them up well for half a minute. Shake
up another third in another bag and add
them to the first lot, and so on till the
bag is full. Two men can dust 10 bags
an hour easily this way.
Remember that these dusts won’t help
potatoes already damaged by grubs.
They’re to protect them against gruE
attack. The point is that often a lot of
potatoes are infested with moth eggs in-
visible to the human eye. Untreated, the
eggs will hatch and the grubs get going.
The dust stops the hatching.
Hints for the Farm.
“Mullengah”: Urochloa grass has
proved valuable on the Darling Downs.
Believed to be a native of India, it was
first tried by John Liverseed, former
director of Warwick (Q.) Experiment
Farm, is known as “Liverseed grass” and
responds quickly to rain, providing first-
class feed weeks ahead of other grasses.
It can be sown in uncultivated ground of
all kinds and will smother khaki, burr and
strong-growing weeds. Thousands of
acres of Liverseed have been sown on
the Downs this year, general rate being
about 11b. per acre. March is not too
late for sowing.
“Goulburn”: There may be difficulty
in getting cream- and milkcans and other
dairy utensils retinned, so treat them
carefully to prolong their life. Don’t
allow moisture to remain in cans after
cleaning or they will rust. Cleanse them
thoroughly, scald or steam sterilise them
and stand them upside down to drain.
“Sarina”: Greasy heel is common in
Clydesdale draughts with white heels.
Watch redness and inflammation, accom-
panied by profuse sweating and a
nauseating smell. Wash the heels
thoroughly with warm water and good
soap, and, if blowfly maggots are pres-
ent, destroy them with a drop of petrol
or kerosene. Make a sky-blue-colored
solution of bluestone and water, and,
having dried the parts, apply generously
with a brush. No further washings are
needed, but use the bluestone at inter-
vals until all swelling and smell are gone.
The solution will keep indefinitely in an
airtight bottle. Pay attention to diet.
Change the nag over to light laxative
feed for a few days—green lucerne chaff
and bran go well together. A packet of
Epsom salts daily in the feed for a week
will do good, but don’t give corn.
“Mullengah”: When breeding bacon
pigs aim at a type with roomy chest,
giving plenty of heart and lung space,
straight shoulders (not heavy or coarse),
strong muscular back of even width
throughout its full length, ribs well sprung
out from the backbone but giving straight
sides, long, deep and in alignment with
the shoulders and hams. Hams should
be full and shapely, with flesh to the
hocks, the belly firm and straight to the
underline, and flanks exhibiting a full-
ness. Clean and flat-boned legs are
needed, and the pig should stand four-
square on its toes.
“Myrrhee”: Any advantage gained in
using crushed wheat for pigs is offset by
the cost of crushing, according to experi-
ments conducted at Rutherglen Experi-
ment Farm (Vic.). With barley, how-
ever, considerable waste occurred when
fed whole.
“Canbelego”: Artichokes are first-class
feed for pigs. Jerusalems will yield five
or six tons per acre. The pigs can be
turned in to harvest the crop themselves.
If there’s maize, however, feed it in pref-
erence.
QUESTIONS ANSWERED.
(Transferred from Service Department.)
A stock-horse has a very bad gall on its
back. Despite numerous “cures” and spells it
breaks out again after a few days’ riding. Is
it a sitfast, and what can 1 do?
It is obviously a sitfast, or dry gangrene or
the skin. Unlike an injury, there is no ten-
dency for the dead tissue to separate from tire
normal. When a saddle gall reaches this stage
the only satisfactory treatment is surgical re-
moval. Long rest will be necessary for healing,
as the skin will have to grow in from the edges
to covei the wound. Sitfasts are always causea
by badly-fitting saddles or harness. By caretui
folding of the saddle blanket it is possible as
rule to avoid pressure on the affected spot an
so avoid a recurrence of the condition, for
fresh saddle and girth galls, use a white lotio
made up of loz. of lead acetate, %oz. or zinc
sulphate in H pints of water, the mixture
being thoroughly shaken before application an
dabbed on to the affected spot after work.
* K- * *
(1) What are the most common insect pests
which affect apple-trees? (2) Is there any
general exterminant? .
(1) The most common are the codlm mot
woolly aphis, loopers, mussel scale, San Jo c
scale, light brown apple moth, painted apP
moth, greedy scale, red spider, Bryobra ro :
mottled cup moth, Emperor gum moth, ria
quin bug, apple-root borer, grasshoppers, Inl -
and thrips. (2) Arsenate of lead is a tain
common constituent of the extermmants
these pests.


113
IT
a^isf
iffii
HOTEL GRAND CENTRAL
151 CLARENCE STREET, facing G.P.0., SYDNEY.
No accommodation available for February or March, 1943
G. C. C. McKAY, Manager.
dying, and you’re powerless to do a
damned thing about it.
Each attack lasts about 10 minutes,
with anywhere from 10 to 30 ’planes
taking part. Then there’s a 40-
to 60-minute lull before the next one.
The din is unholy. Our own guns fire
steadily in our ears, and from the dis-
tance comes the boom of the navy guns
and the bombs. And over it all the
rhythmic, comforting beat of the anti-
aircraft pom-poms—“Chicago pianos,”
the British call them.
I see two enemy ’planes downed about
4 p.m. One spirals into the sea off our
port; the other bursts into flames high
overhead. Some of the men grumble be-
cause they don’t see any Spitfires or Hur-
ricanes. But we realise that they can’t
enter our barrage. They wait outside
and pick off thg Nazis or Italians as they
go into battle or come out. Later, we
hear the British bagged between 140 and
160 enemy ’planes as we crawled towards
Malta.
The Ohio, with her precious oil, gets
hers at 5 p.m. Her guns knock out a
Stuka, but the cursed thing crashes right
on her forward deck. She’s only a few
hundreds yards away, and I can see the
flames shooting up 300 feet or more. I
mutter a prayer for the men aboard her
and another for the people of Malta. 1
know how much they need that oil. The
Ohio drops back, and we plough ahead.
In a convoy you can’t afford to wait for
stragglers.
A cruiser and two cargo ships suffer
direct hits. The stern of another cruiser
is blown 20 feet in the air. Probably she
struck a mine that a sub. had dropped in
our path. Evening brings a magnificent
sunset. But now we get the worst attack
of the day, about 60 ’planes in all. Long
after sundown the sea is flickering with
a million torches —high octane gas from
ships that have gone down.
The Nazis call it a day about 10 p.m.
At midnight I take a turn about the ship.
It’s pitch-black, and I thank heaven for
the absence of a moon. Later, I learn
that isn’t luck. The British Admiralty
has waited for a string of moonless nights
before sending us out.
Jerry punches the clock at 8 a.m. on
Wednesday and keeps on the job until
10 p.m. He’s whittling us down, all
right. But in the forenoon we’re cheered
by an amazing sight—the Ohio! In no
time the rail is lined with men staring
back at her and cheering.
But that lift is short-lived. In the after-
noon a sub. sneaks up and sends a tor-
pedo into her amidships. When a tanker
takes a torpedo it’s usually quits. The
Ohio drops back again, and I keep my
eyes on her until she’s out of sight.
All day, shrapnel falls like rain on the
sea, sending up miniature water spouts
all around, and it rattles on our decks
like hail. WeTe wearing tin helmets, and
on deck we dodge from one sheltered
area to another.
A bomber drops a stick of 500-
pounders so close to our port bow that I
can almost reach out and touch them.
As he cuts away from us a seaman picks
up a monkey wrench and lets fly at him
with a beautiful side-arm delivery. I feel
like telling him not to be a damn’ fool,
throwing away equipment like that. But
I know how helpless he feels, and I say
“Nice try.” He grins sheepishly. Just
before dusk the other American ship in
our convoy is dive-bombed and sunk.
But they get everybody off her, even the
two ship’s cats.
As usual, our heaviest attack comes at
dusk, when the flashes from our guns
help the Nazies to spot us. More than 60
’planes have at us this time. Ships are
hit in the hell all around us. Once, when
I dash up for an “observation,” I see that
we are skirting a square mile of flaming
sea. I ask a seaman at the rail what has
happened. “A ship got a direct hit,” he
says in a strained voice. “She’s in the
middle of that.” My skin crawls. I can’t
see anything but fire.
Late in the evening the cargo ships
still afloat are ordered to break forma-
tion and make a run direct for Malta.
Apparently, it’s too risky to stay bunched
together. By midnight we are alone,
death lurking in the darkness ahead and
behind. At 2 a.m. I turn in. Harry
Lawrence drops in for a drink. “Funny
thing,” he says, “both our cats have been
hanging around the lifeboats all evening.”
As I doze off that begins to sound like
an omen.
Machine-gun fire awakens me. I glance
at my wrist watch —5.5 a.m. —and leap
to the porthole. WeTe firing at an E-
boat. There’s a sickening lurch, and I
crash against the wall. While we’re blast-
ing that first E-boat another slips up on
the other side and sends a torpedo into
us. I open a metal door at the end of
the companionway. But I close it quick.
There’s a solid, roaring sheet of flame
beyond. I take another route to deck.
Already flames have cut off the fore-
castle, and we’re listing about 40 degrees.
After a couple of centuries, we get a
landing net over and a boat, and we climb
down. The other boats get off from the
other side of the ship.
We row around aimlessly for an hour
and a half. Then somebody shouts “Here
comes a boat.” One of the destroyers
from our own convoy heaves to and we
all swarm up the short ladder.
We’re hardly aboard when Jerry
appears from nowhere and scores two
hits on the flaming ship we’ve abandoned.
She literally disintegrates before our eyes.
It’s a madhouse aboard the destroyer.
She has already picked up the crews of
two other cargo ships, and now there are
South Wales "Echo.”
THE EXPERT.
350 of us survivors. Every inch of the
messrooms, cabins and decks is occu-
pied.
We plough ahead, firing intermittently
at Jerry overhead. At 10.30 a.m. we
meet another British destroyer, standing
motionless beside several hundred square
yards of burning oil. In the centre of
it is one of our cargo ships. We go on,
because one destroyer is enough to pick
up everybody who lives through that in-
ferno.
Suddenly I have to rub my eyes.
Ahead, off the port bow, stands the in-
destructible Ohio, still alive but not kick-
ing. What that ship has gone through!
For three hours we circle the helpless
tanker. I figure we’re frightening away
subs. Two waves of ’planes take a crack
at the Ohio, but they can’t do better
than near misses.
At 3 p.m. we throw her a line and start
towing her. Twice we cut the line with
axes when Jerry comes over, and it snaps
itself five times more.
By Friday Malta is only 60 miles away,
but I doubt whether we’ll ever get there.
At dawn, we’re still towing the Ohio, at
three knots. We pull alongside her at
10 a.m., and take her crew aboard. An
hour later, her captain asks the crew to
reboard the Ohio and they return, to a
man. Soon afterward, Jerry comes over
and scores a lucky hit. A 500-pounder
strikes the Ohio amidships. Why she
doesn’t blow sky-high, I’ll never know.
The bomb explodes all right, but it
doesn’t even start a fire. We pull up
pronto and take the crew off again, most
of them covered with asbestos blown oft
the pipes. The captain says he won’t ask
the men to go back aboard, regardless.
The destroyer that was standing beside
the flaming ship we passed yesterday
overhauls us at noon.
Now we try a new trick on the Ohio.
Both destroyers run up alongside and
make themselves fast to the tanker. Then
we put on steam and drag her along be-
tween us. We don’t feel any too com-
fortable. Here we are, 800 men or more,
inching along and making a perfect tar-
get for the German ’planes. But the
commanders of these two destroyers have
plenty of nerve. They are going to get
the Ohio in, or go down trying.
Wave after wave of German and
Italian ’planes dive at us. Bombs straddle
the three of us, scoring near misses but
no direct hits. We send up a continuous
barrage from both destroyers, and volun-
teers, including three men from our ship,
go aboard the Ohio to man her guns.
The strangest sight I ever hope to see
occurs .while these attacks are at their
height. Most of the survivors figure
they’re going to get the Ohio sooner or
later. So we climb aboard her and start
a systematic campaign of looting. Men
return staggering under loads of clothes,
cigarettes and canned goods. A couple
of them have armfuls
of frozen chickens, and
another lugs a bucket-
ful of eggs. Half a
dozen men, who’ve got
hold of cans of
pimiento and coffee,
are staging a regular
picnic, complete with
sandwiches. All this
gaiety —a kind of fiesta
—while overhead the
Nazis are busy drop-
ping bombs that may
send us all to Kingdom
Come any second!
We’re still celebrat-
ing when, at dusk, we
get a real reason to
celebrate. The first
British ’planes, out from
Malta, start circling
protectively over us.
What a cheer goes up
from hundreds of
throats! Harry pounds
me on the back, shout-
ing “By God, maybe
we’ll make it, after all!”
At 8 a.m. on Saturday we’re heading
for Malta’s Grand Harbor. We’re the
tail-end of the convoy. Some of our
ships are at the bottom of the Medit-
teraneah. Others reached Malta late
Thursday. And now we are heading in-
guardians of the Ohio, which the Nazis
would rather have sunk than all the
others put together. And she’s lost only
one-tenth of her precious oil. Across
the water comes the rumble of a band.
Soon, I hear people singing. Now, it’s
“God Save the King”—and now, incred-
ibly, “The Star-Spangled Banner.” After
we dock, the town authorities lead us
into a subterranean air-raid shelter, where
they hand us each a slug of rum and
sit us down to the most sumptuous mul-
ligan stew mortal ever tasted. Just then,
Jerry comes over for one more pot shot
at the Ohio. But the land batteries
throw up a barrage that sends him hell-
bent for Sicily before he can even un-
load. Our oil for the lamps of Malta is
safe.
It’s only during the next few days that
I realise what we’ve done. The faces of
the ordinary people on the street tell
the story. Shopkeepers refuse our money
for the few trinkets they still have to
sell. Barbers won’t take a penny for our
haircuts. Women run up and kiss the
hands of our boys. The people speak
Maltese, but wherever we go children
tag along after us shouting “Convoy . . .
convoy! ”
Uncle Sam’s Navy.
( Condensed from “United States News. ")
The United States now possesses at
least 16 battleships, six of them new,
with Pearl Harbor losses more than made
up. Twelve more battleships are build-
ing, of which six are in the 45,000-ton
class. Six additional big battle-cruisers
are coming along. In light and heavy
cruisers the U.S. had 37 in service and
54 building at the time of Pearl Harbor.
Another 500,000 tons of cruisers was
projected. There have been losses, but
cruiser strength is rising fast. Of de-
stroyers the U.S. had 171 at the time of
Pearl Harbor, with 191 building. An-
other 900,000 tons of destroyers and
escort vessels was projected. Again there
have been losses, but destroyer strength
soon will skyrocket. No other nation
even approaches a building programme
of this size. Warship deliveries will be
at their peak by mid-1943.
Of the U.S. Navy’s original seven air-
craft-carriers, four are destroyed. But
at least 13 other big carriers are building,
with great numbers of converted carriers
coming along. Furthermore, the U.S.
Navy today operates land-based ’planes.
It plans a force of 27,500 operating air-
craft as its basic force —an air arm of
immense size. This will be an air force
trained specifically for co-operation with
the Fleet in controlling the world’s seas.
The American undersea fleet num-
bered 113 submarines at the war’s out-
break. Nearly 200 more either are built
or building. This is bad news for Japan s
already hard-pressed merchant fleet.
In men the U.S. Navy in 1941 numbered
under 400,000, today numbers more than
1,400,000, and by the end of 1943 Will
number 2,000,000. A large proportion of
the men on warships now fighting and
winning battles are men who have en-
tered the Navy since Pearl Harbor.
A navy depends upon great trains of
supply ships. Those ships are available
today in great numbers. Navy needs are
assured of fulfilment.
The American Navy today is prepared
to operate over vast reaches of the world’s
oceans because it possesses operating
bases, or has access to operating bases
at strategic places where it most needs
them.
In all the world there is no navy—
when its full force is assembled—that is
a match for the navy America possesses
and is building. That’s the situation one
year after the United States suffered one
great naval defeat at Pearl Harbor and
another from Germany’s submarines in
the Atlantic.
Pacific Front Neglect.
(Condensed from an article by Washington
syndicate commentator David Lawrence.)
The tendency to regard the Pacific war
as a secondary segment of a global war
is causing grave concern among those
who are familiar with the Japanese-
American operations. The theory that
Japan can be taken care of by a com-
bined British-American fleet after Hitler
is conquered is prevalent, but among Far
Eastern experts this is considered a highly
dangerous appraisal of the situation. It
is asserted by the advocates of a more
intensive Pacific war that if the United
Nations neglect the Japanese front they
will pay for it in hundreds of thousands
of lives in 1944 and 1945, if not subse-
quent thereto.
The Japanese need time. The United
Nations are giving them plenty of it by
allowing the United States Navy and a
relatively small army and air force to
carry on the whole job. The U.S. Navy
has taken a terrific toll of the Japanese,
and in nearly every battle the American
ships have been outnumbered, but it is
also true that the Japanese have a major
navy, and all of it is in one ocean, while
the United States divides its strength be-
tween two oceans. If the British Navy


MADE SPECIALLY TO
PREVENT SORE THROATS
10 for 1/1
20 for 2/2
Carreras Ltd.—ls 4 Years’ Reputation for Quality
A foolish spender is a traitor.
The right place for your money
is in £lO National Savings Bonds
5066 8
is going to be of any help to the U.S.
Navy in the Pacific, if the aircraft now
building in such big quantities are to be
of any avail to the meagre American
forces stationed in the Pacific, the time
for such help is now, before the Japanese
can consolidate their positions and en-
trench themselves for several years of
war.
Very little has been made public as to
the actual number of American ships or
’planes or troops in the Pacific area, but
judging by official communiques and
news dispatches the United States has put
into the Far East a relatively small force
to carry on a major war.
Is this kind of dispersal of our forces
adequate? Is it fair to the forces now
in the Pacific?
The general public, however, doesn’t
know how much of the Pacific opera-
tions has been conducted virtually on
a shoestring. But the Japanese know.
They would prefer to compel the United
States to confine herself to an island-by-
island campaign, because this may take
years to consummate.
What the Japanese would not like is
the sending of a major expedition such
as went to North Africa, with a fleet big
enough to protect landings in strategic
areas on the Asiatic Japanese mainland.
A route to China must be opened soon,
or the Japanese will close off the Burma
Road for years to come. More and more
offensive operations must be undertaken
in 1943, or the course of the Japanese-
American war will be lengthened to such
an extent that long after the Hitler war
is over the sacrifices of American boys
will continue on a scale far more bloody
than those which may be encountered in
Europe.
The armchair strategists who insist
that Hitler is the main objective and
that all will be well when the European
war is over do not know the Japanese
nor do they know the estimates of Japan-
ese fighting power being made by those
who do not sit in armchairs, but actually
come in contact with the enemy in the
South Pacific and in, China.
The biggest single deficiency in the
Pacific is air power. The Washington
tendency is to give everything to Europe,
despite the pleas for more aid to the
Pacific. A few hundred big bombers
sent to the Pacific today in addition to
those already there can change the trend
of the fighting, but if all eyes are to be
fixed on Europe and the Pacific is to
wait its turn the cost in the end may
be so big that, when they get all the facts
some day, the American people will pro-
test bitterly at the neglect of our forces in
the Pacific.
Japan and Russia.
(Condensed from N.Y. “Times.”)
It is an axiom of Japan’s basic policy
and military strategy that she must con-
quer both Australia and Eastern Siberia
as far as Lake Baikal before she can
feel safe to organise “Greater East Asia.”
Both these regions offer bases for
counter-attacks, and Vladivostok espe-
cially appears to the Japanese like a
spear pointed directly at Japan’s heart.
It was a long-standing controversy in
Japan whether she should first move
north or south. The decision, facilitated
by the Russo-Japanese neutrality pact,
was for the south, and Pearl Harbor and
Singapore were the result. But a further
move southward toward Australia has
been blocked by the American and Aus-
tralian forces in the Solomons and New
Guinea, and the 1,000,000 Japanese
troops tied down on the northern fron-
tier of Japan’s sphere of influence com-
mand therefore renewed interest in
Japan’s intentions in the north.
Ever since the Russo-Japanese war of
1904-05 Japan has gradually but steadily
crowded Russia out of Eastern Asia. Her
attempt to seize Eastern Siberia following
the last war was frustrated by pressure
from the United States, but she never
abandoned her aims. Lenin proposed a
buffer State, but the buffer State became
a Japanese-controlled Manchukuo. Russia
was forced to abandon to Japan the
Chinese Eastern Railway, her most direct
connection with Vladivostok, and Japa-
nese and Russian interests continued to
clash along the border and especially in
Mongolia.
To test out Russian resistance, Japan
deliberately precipitated two pitched
battles, at Changkufeng in 1938 and at
Nomonhan in 1939. She ascertained
what Hitler did not know—that the Red
Army was a real fighting force and that
Russia was a foe not to be tackled lightly.
Since then Japan has been seeking a
rapprochement with Russia. Having once
rejected an offer of a non-aggression pact
on the ground that Russia would not
consent to stop Bolshevist “thought pro-
paganda” in China, Japan was glad to
get a neutrality pact which released her
from the obligation to go to Germany’s
aid under the Axis alliance in case of a
Russo-German war, and secured her
northern flank for her own advance to
the south. But the value attached to the
pact by each side was illustrated by
strong Japanese forces placed along the
Siberian border in the summer of 1941
and by the Russian mining of the waters
around Vladivostok which sank some
Japanese ships and prompted strong
Japanese protests.
In addition to being spurred by her
own ambitions, Japan is also haunted by
the spectre of American air and naval
bases in Siberia. As long as these fail
to materialise, Japan is probably content
to wait and see ; but the increase in the
Japanese forces in the north suggests that
the northern front will not remain quies-
cent for ever. The explosion may
be touched off by the withdrawal of
large Russian forces from the East, or
by Japanese suspicions that America is
establishing bases in Siberia, or by Japa-
nese apprehensions that Germany is
losing the war and that a victorious
Russia, aided by her allies, may then
turn against Japan.
Can France Recover?
(From New York “Daily News.”)
Can France recover this time, as it has
done so often before? Certain facts con-
cerning the French birthrate must be
taken into account by anyone trying to
make an intelligent guess.
Before the Revolution the French were
a prolific race. Since the Revolution,
they never have been. French in France,
we mean ; the French in Canada are so
prolific that various population chartists
figure that the French vote may control
all Canada in another 40 or 50 years.
In France the French began slowing
down their birthrate after Waterloo. The
Revolution brought the peasants the land
they had long yearned for, but only a
little bit of land per peasant. Large
families would mean penury for the
children who would divide up each little
farm among them ; small families would
mean that the children could go on
scratching along as their parents had
done.
So, without fanfare or birth-control
legislation, the French cut their birth-
rates and kept them cut. They became
more and more individualistic, too, as
the Chinese had been for centuries.
Super-individualism causes a man to think
less and less of his country and more and
more of his personal interests and those
of his family.
The Chinese are growing out of their
super-individualism, and the Japs are re-
gretting that fact. It may be that France
is suffering from old age. That is a
malady from which individuals never
recover, but nations sometimes do. Wit-
ness, again, China.
Dragnet Digest.
(Condensed from various acknowledged
sources.)
“By the end of 1943 America alone will pro-
duce almost as great a volume of combat
armaments as all the rest of the world com-
bined, Allies and enemies together. One year
from now American production will be nearly
twice as large as that of the Axis; United
Nations production will be nearly three to
one ahead of Axis production.”— U.S. War
Production Board chairman Donald M. Nelson.
* * * *
Army officers find the majority of U.S.
soldiers would prefer to fight the Japs rather
than the Germans. They have a grudge against
the Japs and want to settle it. Avenging Pearl
Harbor is the U.S. doughboy’s principal motive.
In training “snipers” are always Japs, and
positions to be stormed are always held by
“those little yellow rats” or “those slant eyes.”
~N.Y. “Sunday Mirror.”
* * * *
High naval officials, following the “third
round” of the Solomons battle, make this
appraisal of Jap and U.S. forces: Naval battles
have resulted in such heavy losses on both
sides that the long-range effect is a war of
attrition in which the winner eventually is the
one who has something left after the heavy
sinkings. This should make the United States
superior because of superior production. If
every unit of the U.S. and Jap fleets were sunk
the odds would still be in our favor because
pr °£ uction ratio ranges between 6-1 and
IU-1. The navy has accurate information about
Jap production because Japan relied on Ameri-
can engineers and industrial consultants, and
these American experts have now been sum-
moned to Washington,as advisers. U.S. victory
may not come in the Pacific for some time.
Some naval experts think it may be decided
more by U.S. ships not yet commissioned than
by those now serving in the Pacific. The navy
notices a reduction in quality of both Japanese
Japanese ’planes. As one officer puts
+ ’ ~ 316 now playing with their second
team. Best Jap aviators probably were lost
when tour Jap carriers were sunk at Midway.—
Washington syndicate writer Drew Pearson.
* * * *
When Stalin decided to make Stalingrad the
symbol of resistance, Hitler accepted the chal-
lenge. It was a personal duel. Both men
realised the political, not to speak of the mili-
tary, risks involved. The Russians made it the
heart and symbol of their resistance. Hitler in
making it his stated objective for 1942 was
forced into dissipating his military resources
on an unparalleled scale. He will never re-
cover from Stalingrad.— Johannes Steel; N.Y.
* * * *
On Guadalcanal joking was rare, and nearly
al! faces were serious. For weeks these men
had been under almost continuous fire of one
type or another, and they showed it. Hundreds
of them had grown from boys to men—and
good tough fighting men to boot. I saw jungle
action of the roughest type .and how marines
perform when the going is the toughest. We
were outnumbered and outgunned by the enemy,
but their losses were far heavier than ours.
Someone brought to the island a remark credited
to a Bataan fighter to the effect that “there
is no room for atheism in a foxhole.” We
soon began to agree to that, although news-
papermen usually don’t go in heavily for re-
ligion So, one morning when Jap 14in. shells
were landing, and we had been under incessant
naval bombardment and air bombings for eight
hours, we uttered a fervent “amen” when
Marine correspondent Sergeant Jim Hurlburt
suggested reciting the Lord’s Prayer. His sug-
gestion had been offered diffidently, but no
voice was raised in protest.— Sherman Mon-
trose American cameraman with the troops at
(Guadalcanal.
* * * *
So-called experts on public opinion are
quan effing these days about the probable effect
of good news on the war effort. There are
those who mournfully say that optimism will
slow people down. Others insist that more
y™ and vigor will go into every man’s effort
if he believes that the war may, after all, be
a relatively short one. It looks now as if
the odds are on the latter. The prospect of a
long war, so persistently presented by some of
cur morale experts, seriously saps our energies.
The prospect of a short, fast, hard war, on the
other hand, may well contribute to making it a
short war.— “ Wall-street Journal.”
* * * *
The word _ “Communism” having become
somewhat disreputable (it’s now actually
libellous in some courts to call a man a Com-
munist unless he’s a member of the party), the
word “Socialism” is taking its place. But
“Socialism” is only Communism in a “boiled
shirt” and clean cuffs. The war party in
Japan for the “conquest of the world” is now
called “Imperial Socialism.” Hitler calls his
Communism the “National Socialist party.”
Mussolini calls his form of Communism “Fas-
cism,” which is militarised Socialism. The
letters U.S.S.R. stand for United Soviet
Socialist Republics. Here in the U.S.A. the
right-wing Communists call themselves Socialists
or Social Democrats. But it all comes to one
thing: the spiritual, mental and financial domi-
nation of the individual by the State.— N.Y.
“Journal-American” columnist.
* * * *
The war may force India, willy-nilly into
becoming a major industrial nation. ’ Only
political difficulties can prevent it from re-
placing Japan as Asia’s No. 1 industrialist
India is a king-pin in this global war The
logical route of a United Nations attack on
Japan’s southern Empire is at its weakest link
—-Burma. If India can furnish basic supplies,
the Allies will be operating on their own front
porch. Japan’s armies will have to be supplied
from the homeland. This is crucial A major
reason for Tokyo’s victories to date has been a
short Japanese supply line, long Allied lines
British m Egypt, Russians in the Caucasus can
get much of what they need from India. They
must do so to prevent dangerous ship-expensive
hauls through the sub.-infested Atlantic and
Pacific. Official American sources say; “The
extent to which India can aid the United
Nations in the equipment of a formidable India
Army may prove a decisive factor in the war ’’
—Ray Cromley; “Wall-street Journal.”
* * *
There is not yet full readiness on the pan
of the Soviet Union to trust British and Ameri-
can officials with important information or to
give full facilities to our military observers.
There is more military collaboration between the
Soviet Union and its allies than the public can
be told, but, compared with Anglo-American
relations, the U.S.S.R. is fighting in isolation.
—“Atlantic Monthly.”
* * * *
The American Red Cross spent $62,000,000 din-
ing the past year for supplies sent to 30,000,000
persons abroad. Five million dollars’ worth of
goods went to prisoners of war. One can
imagine how much hope and comfort a few
dollars bought in that sad market. During
1941 the U.S. Red Cross collected 50,000 units
of precious blood plasma—often the difference
between life and death for an injured person.
In 1942 there were a million blood donors.
Other items of note are 60,000 women trained
as volunteer nurses’ aids, 500,000 trained for
home nursing, and 350,000,000 surgical dress-
ings, besides garments and other articles, pre-
pared by 3,500,000 volunteer workers—Red
Cross chairman Norman H. Davis.
* * * «
“You will find a decided viewpoint in this
country now that we shohld withdraw from
international affairs, a viewpoint which will
find an outlet after the war.— N.Y. Mayor La
Guardia.
* * * *
“The end of the war is not in sight, and I be-
lieve there is no man whose prediction as to
its length is worth the time he spends in making
that prediction.”— U.S. Undersecretary of the
Navy James V. Forrestal.
* * * *
“The Arabs and Jews in Palestine have buried
the hatchet, but not buried it very deep. Dis-
appointed Zionists call Palestine ‘the twice-
promised land.’ Still more disappointed Arabs
call it ‘the half-promised land.’ ” —Sir Ronald
Starrs, sometime Governor of Jerusalem, in a
lecture at South Kensington (London).
* * * *
M. Sveinn Bjornsson, the Regent, spoke of
Iceland’s excellent relations with Britain and
America when he addressed the opening session
of the newly-elected Althing (Icelandic Parlia-
ment) at Reykjavik; “We cannot but wish
that these friendly relations may continue in
the future and grow stronger. The British forces
who have been here since May 10, 1940,
have now left the country. Let it be said here
frankly that, although they came here against
our will, and there have been a few incidents
which can never be avoided in similar cir-
cumstances, especially at the beginning, these
forces have left us with greater respect and
sympathy for the British than we ever had be-
fore. Instead of the British forces we now
have with us the American Army, who are
here at our request and according to our free
agreement. This is a fact we must always bear
in mind. Incidents have occurred, but we must
fully appreciate the strong desire on the part
of the American civilian officials and army
authorities to cause us the least possible diffi-
culty I also think I can truthfully say that
our respect and sympathy for the United States
and its people have increased on closer acquaint-
ance and are better now than ever before.”
—London “Times.”
* * « «
The famous and highly secret Norden aerial
bombsight is still believed to be just as ex-
clusively a U.S. weapon as it was at the be-
ginning of the war, all of them being accounted
for and none having fallen into Jap or German
hands. What has surprised U.S. observers is
that the Japs appear to be better precision
bombers than the Germans. It isn’t known
what sight the Jap bombers are using. Mari-
time Captain Raymond Lytz, back in Washing-
ton from Guadalcanal, says that when the Japs
come over Henderson Field for a high-level
bombing raid at 22,000 feet or better they can
hit the runways with remarkable precision. To
appreciate what good bombing this is you have
to consider that the Jap bomber is not only
more than four miles up but he is also two-
and-a-half to three miles horizontally off his
target at the time he releases his eggs.—Wash-
ington correspondent, N.Y. “World-Telegram.”


Pipes
at War
rv-
■
■
%
“Jungle carts” —the Australian
equivalent of the rickshaw are
among the specially-planned and
newly-developed Army equipment
now in use in the New Guinea
area. These carts, light and strong,
are pulled by two men, and are
used either for carting stores, or,
with the ends dropped to accom-
modate stretcher cases, as emer-
gency ambulances.
The “jungle carts” are a sym-
bol of the adaptability of Aus-
tralia’s home front engineers and
of the adaptability of an Aus-
tralian product manufactured as a
direct outcome of the war steel
tubing.
The war-time value of Aus-
tralian manufactured steel tubing
has been recognised by both the
Australian and the American
Armies. Pontoon bridges have
been made of steel tubing. So
have Army huts, tank shelters,
and telegraph poles. So have
masts, derricks and handrails of
American Army barges.
Stewarts and Lloyds were pion-
eers in Australia in the use of
steel tubing for constructional
purposes, building their fabrica-
ting shop at Newcastle and many
of their warehouses as a practical
illustration of their contention
that tubular steel is cheaper and
stronger than other steel sections.
Peace in Our Time,"
Back in the days of “peace in
our time” Stewarts and Lloyds
took a realistic attitude towards
coming events. In England the
parent company was already put-
ting down shell-forging plants.
So without any Government
backing or guarantee, a shell-
forging plant was installed in the
Australian plant, too.
Frown Fipes to Shells.
Some of the plant was still on
the high seas when war broke out
in 1939. Australia’s fighting
forces could not afford to wait,
and Stewarts and Lloyds’ engin-
eers evolved a method of making
shell bodies in much the same way
as weldless tubes. They switched
over to shell production a weldless
tube mill which had been turning
out boiler tubes, water, gas and
artesian bore pipes.
The first shell forging left the
Works less than three weeks after
the outbreak of war.
The special shell forging plant,
ordered in England, which was
completed a few weeks later, was
planned to forge shell bodies for
4.5 Howitzers, 3.7 anti-aircraft
guns, 25 Pdr. and 4-inch naval
guns. The design was the latest
in the world. It still is. Since its
installation it has been producing
shells continuously at a higher
rate than any other unit in
Australia.
It was a new plant installed for
a special purpose. It is a testi-
mony to foresight.
The Weldless Tube Mill, known
as a Push Bench, is a ramrod on
rails, powerful, British designed,
and still the only one of its kind
in Australia. It was set up to
manufacture high quality piping
to withstand higher pressures and
duty than the Buttweld type. Now
its “Pushing” head is turning out
steel tubing exclusively for the
Forces.
At Mersa Matruh .
Some of this tubing was rushed
to Egypt in 1941 and built into the
water line from Alexandria to
Mersa Matruh. Some of it is carry-
ing air and steam on fighting mis-
sions. Some is built into our War
Planes, Tanks, Bren Gun Carriers.
It is employed for scores of
different purposes in the construc-
tion and repair of our Warships
and Merchant Ships, and for
hundreds of other War require-
ments.
Victory
Workers •
Beginning as an organisation to
distribute tubes made in the United
Kingdom, Stewarts and Lloyds
expanded into Australian tube
production when they began the
manufacture of Buttweld tubes in
1934. Their entry into the seam-
less tube field in 1939 was the
next step forward. Now, with the
installation of new plant and the
conversion of existing plant to
war-time production, the person-
nel employed has increased to
three times its pre-war size ... all
working flat-out for Victory.
Stewarts and Lloyds
(Australia) Pty. Ltd.
4& miles of pipe per hour. Bill Hoy controls the F retz-Moon Rolls which
make Buttweld pipes. Beside him is Captain Tooth, head of the Stewarts and
Lloyds’ V.D.C., who crouches to avoid the heat of the almost molten metal
strips which leave the furnace at this point for forming into pipes. The rolls
can make four and a half miles of pipe in an hour.
Glamorous Monica Burhe , of Stewarts and Lloyds , holds up
engine cylinders made from that lumpy type of forging beside her.
are surprisingly light—weigh only 9h lbs. each.
two aero
Cylinders


Yon
cannot bequeath
your Judgment
or experience
The judgment and experience a man accumu-
lates in his lifetime cannot be passed on to
his dependents. For this reason it is doubly
important that he should take the necessary
steps to ensure that his estate is managed with
competence and fidelity.
For more than 64 years The Trustees
Executors and Agency Company Limited has
•provided the impartial advice and assistance
of a permanent corporation as Executor,
Trustee, Attorney, Agent, and in other capaci-
ties of a fiduciary nature.
The appointment of the company ensures
continuity in the execution of a trust, which
cannot be provided by a single individual.
Charges are fixed and moderate and ample
security is provided. Consult your solicitor
or write or call for full information*
the trustees executors
and Agency Company Ltd .
Incorporated in Victoria in 1878
1 BLIGH ST.. SYDNEY. AND AT 401 COLLINS ST.. MELBOURNE
Capital ([paid and uncalled ) and Reserves and
Undivided Profits, £ 959,022.
BOARD OF DIRECTORS:
Sir Alexander Stewart (Chairman) ;
D. Stuart Murray; Sir Claude Reading, K.C.M.G.
Sir Lennon Raws, C.8.E.; G. S. Colman, C.8.E.;
Sir Alan Newton.
NEW SOUTH WALES DIRECTORS:
Sir Claude Reading, K.C.M.G. (Chairman);
W. D. Stewart; R. T. Hilder.
N.S.W. MANAGER: J. W. Russell French-
Gen. Manager: W. Sydney Jones, Manager: ,K. M. Hughes -
The "Curvilinear” Concentrating Table
SEND FOR
BULLETIN
AND
PRICE.
ť
ŧ
SIMPLE
AND
RELIABLE.
We are the patentees and manufacturers of this table. Call for a demonstration
Can also quote for all classes of mining machinery, including stamp batten ,
amalgamating tables, magnetic ore separators, classifiers, agitators, everiasi 0
valves, water- and oil-filters, Rendrock and all other explosives and accessor .
Electric motors and Ellison switch gear.
GUTHRIDGE PTY. LIMITED,
Sole Patentees and Manufacturers,
10-12 PARRAMATTA RD., CAMPERDOWN, SYDNEY, N.S.W.
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
Queensland Insurance Co., Ltd.
Added to Re-
Sept., Profit. Dividends. Reserves, serves.*
£ £ £ £
1932.. 89,353 10 p.c. = 50,000 39,353 693,543
1933.. 103,358 10 „ „ 50,000 53,358 746,901
1934.. 105,067 10 „ ~50,000 55,067 801,968
Reserves capitalised, £250,000 .. 551,968
From hidden reserves, £50,000 .. 601,968
1935.. 102,837 8 p.c. = 60,000 42,837 644,805
1936. 130,648 10 , ,75,000 ) 60 648 695( 453
Staff bonus, £5OOO )
1937.. 126,284 8* p.c. = 63,750 62,534 757,987
1938.. 150,506 9J „ „ 71,250 79,256 837,243
1939.. 143,764 10 „ „ 75,000 68,764 906,007
1940.. 137,289 10 „ „ 75,000 62,289 968,296
1941.. 185,928 10 ~ ~ 75,000 110,928 1,079,224
1942.. 157,376 10 ~ „ 75,000 82,376 1,161,600
* Subject to unexpired risks.
A splendid result, somewhat better than
it appears. “Ample” provision for loss
of funds held in Java, Malaya, Burma,
Thailand and Indo-China, also New
Guinea, Papua and elsewhere in the
Pacific, was made last year, chairman
James Burns states. Instead of setting
aside £60,000 for unexpired risks as in
1941 —it is included with profits here —
the board on this occasion milked revenue
of only £15,000 for such risks ; but it is
guineas to a gooseberry that it also
plugged the revenue with anything
rendered doubtful through enemy activity.
In other words, income was probably
saddled with a job which might reason-
ably have been assigned to reserves. A
matter nf discretion, it would appear.
The drop in profits is therefore prob-
ably nothing to worry about. The board,
widely experienced and unusually cautious,
no doubt realises only too well that under
existing conditions jitterbugging on the
part of figures must be expected. So
shareholders were treated well, as usual.
They got the 10 p.c. they have received
on all but three occasions in the past
dozen years, and more remained for re-
serves than was paid out in dividends ;
these accumulations are definitely sub-
ject to unexpired risks.
Contraction in premium income is, of
course, a possibility, for loss of revenue
from centres invaded and threatened has
yet to be felt for a full year. Further,
the decision of the Federal Government
to take care of war-risk insurance on the
Australian coast will affect earnings,
though Japan’s entry into the war had
greatly increased the possibility of losses
here. On the other hand, there are indi-
cations that business other than motor-
car within the Commonwealth is expand-
ing rapidly, and gross premium revenue,
which now exceeds the £2,000,000-mark,
should stand up well to a bit of shading,
if that becomes necessary.
Net premium income rose £19,135 last
year:—
N e t Loss Expense
Premiums. Claims. Expenses.! Rate. 'Rate.
1895. . £40,681 £28,703 £13,058 70.7 p.c. 32.1 p.c.
1915.. 240,849 118,126 81,098 49.0 ~ 33.6 ~
1930.. 774,560 485,040 306,804 62.6 „ 39.8 „
1936.. 541,736 268,948 200,908* 49.6 „ 37.1 „
1937.. 610,979 324,500 221,573* 53.1 „ 36.2 „
1938.. 691.771 364,631 239,487* 52.7 „ 34.6 „
1939.. 728,792 381,557 271,976* 52.3 ~ 37.3 „
1940.. 743,309 382,520 296,822* 51.4 „ 39.9 „
1941.. 853,576 406,595 334,316* 47.6 „ 39.1 „
1942.. 872,711 418,965 376,163* 48.0 ~ 43.1 „
* Excludes taxes, etc., on returns from investments
£BO9B, 1936 ; £8593, 1937; £10.938, 1938 ;
£16,755, 1939; £20,895, 1940'; £26,639, 1941 ;
£27,180, 1942.
! Including contributions to staff fund.
Provisions against possible losses of
ex-Australian funds have had little effect
there. Claims last year were £12,370
higher at £418,965 and the loss rate
climbed by a few decimal points to 48
p.c. Charges were £41,847 heavier at
£376,163 —mainly in respect of taxation
(£111,020, up £34,257) on underwriting
earnings—and the expense rate climbed to
43.1 p.c. Underwriting surplus was
£35,081 lower at £77,583, but equals 10.3
p.c. on capital. Net return from invest-
ments was £6529 better at £79,793, and
represents a further ,10.6 p.c. on the share-
register. Return on capital from all
sources was thus 20.9 p.c., as against 24.7,
18.3, 19.1, 20, 16.8 and 17.3 p.c. back
to 1936.
Finances are strong. Liabilities
stepped up £502,424 last year, mainly
through an increase of £341,632 to
£880,021 in claims and reinsurances un-
paid and a rise of £110,229 to £322,579
in the Siamese-twin item sundry creditors
and provision for contingencies. How-
ever, a good wad of cash was placed in
Government securities and other readily-
accessible places:
, 1941 —1942 ■s
p.c. P-C.
Gov. securities .. £1,341,659 46.8 £1,657,797 48.0
Municipal sec’ties 62,929 2.2 62,929 1.8
Deposits, cash,
sundry debtors,
etc 1,142,121 39.8 1,408,115 40.8
Premises.. .. 321,399 11.2 324,069 9.4
Total assets ..£2,868,008 100.0 £3,452,910 100.0
Liabilities* . . 1,001,386 1,503,810
Net assets! ..£1,866,622 £1,949,100
* Including contingencies. t Subject to final div.
Capital is £750,000 and reserves are
£411,600 higher than that. It is a strong
position for both policy- and share-
holders, and means that net premium in-
come is covered to the extent of 219 p.c.
Cover of 150 p.c. is usually considered
sufficient margin.
War-damage insurance, written on be-
half of the Government, amounted to
£26,691,276. Premiums thereon totalled
£98,047. Part of the co.’s war effort, this
business is handled free of charge.
Ansett Airways, Ltd.
Year Towards
June, Loss. Dividends. Reserves. Deficit.
£ £ £ £
Goodwill and establishment, £30,393.. 30,393
1938*.. 18,998 Nil 49,391
1939 . . 22,934 Nil 72,325
Profit.
1940 .. 5,645 3 p.c. = 3,635 2,010 70,315
1941 . . 5,675 S „ „ 3,659 2,016 68,299
1942 . . 18,720 7 „ „ 8,582 10,138 58,161
* 14J months.
Prospectus of the co.’s £60,000 public
issue is “Strictly for Private and Confi-
dential Information only” ; it is “Not to
be published in the Press or broadcast by
Radio Stations.” Such matter is
always interesting to the public, so here
is some of the prospectus material under
signature of the “president,” managing-
director R. M. Ansett:
The rise of Ansett Airways, Ltd is a
story of Australian brains, initiative, re-
source and courage The pioneering
period is long since past, and it [the co.]
is solidly established in an industry which
possesses vast potentialities In all the
attributes of success, it is well equipped
to take advantage of the brilliant future
awaiting civil aviation... .The time is not
far distant when Australian aviation shares
will be just .as eagerly sought as their
American counterparts.
There is more like speculation. While
war has meant much to aerial develop-
ment in the Commonwealth, financial
possibilities have still to be demonstrated,
and a more temperate approach for new
money might have been expected from
the “unusually wide business experience”
of young Mr. Ansett, “a brilliant ad-
ministrator” with “an intimate knowledge
of every branch of aviation.”
Losses at the start are admitted in the
“confidential” prospectus without their
magnitude being mentioned. Actually
the co. formed in April, 1937, to take
over a proprietary of similar name con-
ducting an air service between Melbourne
and Hamilton (Vic.). Purchase price
was £25,000 in scrip, £15,913 of it being
for goodwill. To the public 110,000
shares were offered to establish a three-
State network, and accounts were saddled
with £14,480 for brokerage and estab-
lishment. An operating loss of £18,998
showed up in the first months, fol-
lowed by one of £22,934 (including fire
damage) for the next 12. The balance
sheet which went out to shareholders in
1939 thus showed paid capital of
£120,875 represented as to £72,325 by
nothing but paper assets. The turning-
point came in 1940, when a Government
subsidy at the rate of £33,540 p.a. for the
first six months and £16,000 p.a. for the
second half-year enabled a profit of
£5645 to be earned. Instead of repair-
ing the battered finances, the board
hopped in to declare a 3 p.c. div. That
rate was repeated next term, when £5675
was earned after the co.’s subsidy had
been let out to £22,000 p.a. on Feb. 1,
1941.
Last year activities were extended to
provide a large-scale maintenance pro-
gramme, and production of aircraft
components was commenced halfway
though, numbers on the payroll expand-
ing from 230 to 1500 between the begin-
ning and end of the term. Also, just
before the close of accounts, all except
the Hamilton service were terminated, the
Federal subsidy forgone, and a con-
tract entered into with the Allied forces.
After depreciation of £10,374, profit of
£18,720 showed up, and 7 p.c. went out.
Notwithstanding the heavy load of in-
tangibles and the fact that profits, pre-
viously unencumbered, now incur lia-
bility for tax, interim for the current
term has been raised to 8 p.c. p.a. Pre-
tax earnings for the five months to Nov.,
1942, are stated at £15,005.
The manufacturing venture has called
for substantial outside finance;
/ 1 June Nov.,
1938. 1941. 1942. 1942.
Paid capital.. £112,076 £122,594 £122,992 £122,998
Liabilities . . 15,974 19,994 96,281 119,095
Tax reserve.. 2,075
Aircraft, plant,
etc 63,569 34,170 39,867 52,909
Hangars, etc. 8,417 11,480 21,751 22,491
Stores & spares 3,394 17,343 *78,930 *73,311
Sundry debtors 2,236 13,371 23,670 44,120
Cash, etc. . . 1,042 1,583 1,797 6,104
* Includes work in progress.
The new money now being sought is to
provide additional working capital for
war activities and advance development.
The war programme is declared to be
within the orbit of normal peace-time
pursuits, but the discerning investor will
recognise the speculative character of the
investment and the fact that conditions
under which most costs are those of the
Government aren’t necessarily any indi-
cation of prospects later. As in the past,
much may then depend on the Federal
assistance forthcoming.
Pitt, Son and Badgery, Ltd. (Sydney)
To
June, Profit. Dividends. Deserves. Reserves.
£ £ £ £
1932.. 22,689 74 p.c.= 21,750 939 110,155
1933.. 22,551 74 „ ~ 21,750 801 110,956
1934.. 34,262 74 „ „ 21,750 12,512 123,468
1935.. 23,218 74 „ „ 21,750 1,468 124,936
1936.. 29,381 10 „ „ 29,000 381 125,317
Contingencies reserve disclosed,
£36,716 162,033
1907.. 42,674 124 p.c.= 36,250 f 2 424 164 457
Pension fund. £4OOO j ’ ’
1938.. 29,404 10 p.c. = 29,000 404 164,861
1939.. 29,628 10 „ „ 29,000 628 165,489
To staff funds, . £3OOO .. .. 162,489
1940.. 31,863 10 p.c. = 29,000 2,863 165,352
To staff funds, £2850 .. .. 162,502
1941.. 35,021 10 p.c. 29,000 6,021 168,523
To staff funds, £6OOO .. .. 162,523
1942.. 29',899 10 p.c. = 29,000 899 163,422
To staff funds, £3769 .. .. 159,653
This co. is in the wool- and produce-
broking and stock-and-station-agency
business in N. S. Wales. Before the war
earnings fluctuated mainly on account of
seasons, prices and costs, largely wages.
The speculative element in the price
factor has been since eliminated by the
contract with Britain for the exportable
portion of Australia’s clip at a flat rate
of 13.43 d. per pound until the end of
June last, since when the figure has been
lifted to 15.45 d.
Seasonal conditions last year were dry.
Still, business expanded:
Year to Wool
June 30, Bales. Sheep. Cattle. Pigs.
1940.. 134,253 317,177 32,522
1941.. 141,507 375,530 19,551
1942.. 141,704 411,000 24,690 7609
Also British meat and mutton contracts
and the growing local demand on
account of service requirements, includ-
ing those of our Allies, meant much so
far as prices in the sheep, cattle and
pig markets were concerned. Of the
wool received 40,096 bales came into the
co.’s Newcastle store, put up a couple of
years back to reduce rail freights for
clients in the north and nor’-west of the
State, and so compete for the handling
of clips from these areas.
The contraction of £5122 in net earn-
ings was on account of increased costs,
mainly wage lifts. The allowance for
taxation was £12,000 (down £500). The
£29,899 of profit claimed was 10.2 p.c.
on capital as against 11.9, 10.9, 10, 10.1,
14.7 and 10.1 p.c. back to 1936. The
div. was kept at 10 p.c., and £3769 was
sent to the staff fund, reserves being
visibly tapped for £2870 for the purpose.
The co. is well equipped to further
assist clients, when the need arises and


PATENTS.—Have you an idea worth patenting?
Griffith, Hassel and Griffith, Patent Attorneys,
Asbestos House, Or. York and Barrack Streets, Sydney,
obtain Commonwealth and foreign patents.— Advt.
* * * *
DAVIES & COLLISON, Patent Attorneys, Collins
House, 360 Collins Street, Melbourne, 0.1. Austra-
lian and overseas Patents and Trade Marks.— Advt.
The Mutual Life and Citizens*
Assurance Company, Limited
Martin Place and Castlereagh Street,
SYDNEY.
Founded 1886.
There is no better way of providing
cash for your family, or for yourself
when you retire, than by taking out
a policy with The M.L.C.
ASSETS EXCEED £34,000,000
ANNUAL INCOME EXCEEDS
£5,200,000.
M. C. Alder, A.1.A.,
General Manager.
I
The work of trustees and
executors is highly special-
ised—it is unwise to entrust
it to inexperienced hands.
Leave the management of
your estate to a firm render-
ing complete and capable
service. Special facilities
are available for country
and interstate clients. Write
for booklet.
SmnttBUVDELLcCD
Principals: H. Landon Smith, Esq.
F, M. Boydell, A.1.C.A., A.C.I.S.
58 MARGARET ST., SYDNEY
do not experiment with imitations.
a BRAMDAOBK ft CO. Md, BIBMEKQHAM. EKO
PENS
Every point
guaranteed
Tyres can be made to last at least three times
as long by observing a few simple rules.
Change your lyres from one wheel to another every
5000 miles . . keep speeds down to 30 m.p.h. wher-
ever possible . . check your inflation pressures daily
. . take corners slowly , . use brakes sparingly.
Rubber, to-day, is far more precious than gold,
Olympic
THE OLYMPIC TYRE & RUBBER CO. LTD.
CHANGE TVAES
FROM WHEEL
Ti 9 WHEEL.—
CAPSTAN
The Empire’s
Favourite Cigarette
Lend your Money to hasten Victory .
Buy £lO National Savings Bonds or
War Savings Certificates.
19SSO-11.42
it is allowed to —growers are to be tied
to present brokers for the duration:
1937. 1939. 1941. 1942.
Paid capital. . £290,000 £290,000 £290,000 £290,000
Overdraft . . 54,304 230,435 231,059 207,695
Creditors* .. 75,399 32,611 38,995 41,636
Freeholds . . 154,174 154,421 229,033 236,126
Advances, etc. 161,667 282,480 316,454 247,778
Liquid assets 300,236 301,103 212,488 249,113
* Including tax reserve.
The year’s reduction of £68,676 in ad-
vances and of £23,364 in the overdraft
reflects general financial policy. Liquids
mainly fixed deposits and Treasury bonds,
were strengthened by £36,625.
After the books closed the Government
decided to “rationalise” the industry, de-
clared aims being conservation of labor
and transport. Also, growers are asked
to send more sheep to slaughter to meet
export and strong local requirements,
including dehydration and canning.
Some of the steps taken —more frequent
appraisals spread over longer periods, re-
duction in the number of show bales,
reappraisement of scoured wool by bulk
sampling, and resorting of badly-classed
and lightly-packed small clips into bulk
lines —should assist toward the ends
aimed at. But the proposal to create five
new appraisement centres in Labor elec-
torates in the State by erection of new
stores at an estimated cost of £lBO,OOO
will increase instead of reduce the de-
mand for labor, and may even necessi-
tate withdrawal of tradesmen from the
army for the purpose. Owing to shortage
of labor, many run-owners have experi-
enced difficulty in mustering sheep for
shearing and, for the same reason, have
had to stabilise or reduce flocks. Also,
ample display, handling and storage
facilities exist at Sydney, Newcastle and
Goulburn. It is not surprising, therefore,
that both the growing and selling sides
of the trade are opposed to the proposal.
Average employees at Mt. Isa (Q.)
numbered 1054 last year ; 899 were en-
gaged during the period, giving a labor
turnover of 84 p.c. in a protected under-
taking of high rating. So much for the
labor drifts Man-power is supposed to
control. Chief interest at Isa now lies
in its copper. Of the million and a half
tons of 3 p.c. material estimated in sight
in the Black Star, two-thirds is already
developed. Milling of development ore
began in October, and 12,000 tons of
blister a year will be the capacity of the
smelter the staff has managed to con-
struct from existing equipment and what-
ever else it could lay its hands on in the
district. Overnight almost, the co. thus
steps ahead of Mount Morgan and be-
comes a serious competitor to Lyell, the
Commonwealth’s premier copper mount.
Grade here is only half Isa’s, but re-
serves are much more extensive.
On the silver-lead side, reserve ore is
little changed at 8,475,000 tons, assaying
6.20 z. silver a ton, 8.3 p.c: lead and 8.5
p.c. zinc. Not only is the field not so
rich as the Barrier deposits, but concen-
tration represents more of a problem, a
fifth of the lead and half the zinc get-
ting away in. the tails. After writing off
obsolete plant, etc., in lieu of deprecia-
tion —book value of fixed assets dropped
£136,033 net—profit of £90,114 was
earned in the year to June, reducing the
р. and 1. debit to £57,551. Floated from
London 12 years back, capital of
£1,944,202 has had no return yet, and it
is difficult to see it doing so until the
£2,512,525 of debenture and £2,065,743
of other debt becomes a less prominent.
feature. More or less liquids of
£1,837,203 are a partial offset.
* * * *
New Guinea Goldfields calculates that
assets “to the value of £300,000” were
destroyed by or in anticipation of enemy
action. Book value of buildings, plant,
equipment, shafts and stores is £217,897,
so whether a claim for the first amount
mentioned will be admitted by the War
Damage Commission remains to be seen.
Co. has £136,908 in cash with which to
start afresh, and unspecified debtors, etc.,
figure at £26,764; creditors are owed
£16,478. The Edie Creek mine with its
35,350 tons of ore isn’t likely to be re-
opened, and it is doubtful whether Upper
Ridges, where 58,878 tons of proved and
probable ore is in sight, will be either.
Alluvial reserves are stated at 559,500
с. of 45.-ss. wash on the Bulolo and
Edie, and 7,724,000 c.y. of shilling stuff at
Koranga.
* * * *
Proved and probable ore at Norseman
G.M. (W.A.) is maintained at 268,000
tons ; a further 333,000 tons is estimated
to lie in the Iron King block. Respec-
tive grades of 4.3dwt. and 2.2dwt. don’t
leave much margin for profit, however.
Output was restricted last year, and
on 4.4dwt. Norseman recoveries profit
would have been no more than £15,092
if all development had been charged
to revenue. The difficulty now must be
to make ends meet, 3.7dwt. being the
order of yields since the close of accounts.
Minerals other than gold are of most in-
terest at the moment. Iron pyrites from
the Iron King has been going forward to
State acid-makers since November, the
old Higginsville scheelite mine has been
reopened, and a temporary copper re-
serve at Lake Dundas is being developed.
* * * *
Nowadays development progress re-
ports are irregularly issued by London-
controlled Westralian goldmining cos.,
and what is given is brief. Principal
reason is that, owing to restricted man-
power, new ground is not broken to the
same extent as formerly. Some cos., not-
ably Gt. Boulder, do not report in Aus-
tralia their underground progress. North
Kalgurli seems to be the most regular in
its communications. Its latest mentions
a number of satisfactory exposures on
the North Kalgurli lease between the
third and the eighth main level, but says
nothing about the work, if any, being
done in its other blocks, Kalgurli, Union
Jack and Crcesus Proprietary. Interim
dividend (6d. stg. last year, when the
final was 9d.) has been deferred owing
to the “necessity of conserving funds.”
* ¥ * *
Westralian Government is spending
£20,000 on a pilot plant to extract refined
alumina at the rate of three tons a day
from Lake Campion alunite, using a
hydrochloric process. It acquired an
interest in this venture some time ago,
and has since increased its holding to 351
out of 420 shares.
Collie, Westralia’s one and only pro-
ducing coalfield, established a record last
year in output, value, number of men
employed and accidents. In all, 581,175
tons, valued at £461,494, was dug out.
Number of workers rose to 823 and acci-
dents increased to 731, of which two
were fatal, 251 serious and 478 of minor
nature —alarming figures, says the local
paper.
A farewell;
Passed on at Alice Springs, at 71, J. Smith
Roberts, sturdy pioneer prospector of Western
Australia in the roaring ’eighties and ’nineties
and later of Centralia. Amongst other things,
it was he who introduced the Indian camel
with “Ghan” drivers that played such a promi-
nent part in the arid west. He was engaged in
the development of the Mt. Doreen wolfram
field, some 250 miles north-east of Alice Springs,
when the rigors of outback proved too much.


cEßiurm. n
JCSTABUSHEO 1840
The price «t
SPENDING
IT is clear to all that there is a gap between the cost
of the War to the Australian people, and what is
being taken by the Government in Taxes and Loans
to meet it.
The Nation is spending too much and . saving too
little.
Saving money is nothing new for the members of the
A.M.P. Society. They are accustomed to saving for the
defence of their families, but they—and every man and
woman— must now save harder for the defence of the
Nation.
Every bullet fired by our troops, every bomb exploded, every
plane or ship lost, has to be paid for by the Australian people.
The more we pay cheerfully to-day in Taxes and Loans, the
less we shall have to pay in bitterness when the day of reckon-
ing comes.
The A.M.P. is putting £500,000 of its members’ savings into
the War Loans every month’, already it has loaned £45,000,000
to the Commonwealth.
In war-time the price of spending is future distress.
A.M.P. SOCIETY
A sure friend in uncertain times.
Principal Board:
Sir Samuel Hordern K.8.E., Chairman.
Cecil H. Hoskins, Esq., Deputy Chairman.
Hon. Sir Frederick H. Tout, M.L.C., Hubert Fairfax, Esq., W. A. Mackay, Esq.,
Dr. S. A. Smith, Septimus G. Rowe, Esq.
A, W. SNEDDON, F.1.A., General Manager and Actuary.
C. M. Martin, Chief Inspector and Secretary.
A. E. Webb, Manager for New South Wales.
Hoad Office: 87 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
Who Is Your Trustee?
Does he possess the knowledge and experience which the acceptance of that office
demands ?
Permanent Trustee Co.
OF N.S.W., LTD.
Incorporated 1888 to act as Executors and Trustees.
This Company offers unexcelled trust service, combining security and experience
with efficient administration.
Write for explanatory Booklet, sent free, on request.
F. N. YARWOOD (Chairman)
A. E. BOND
E. V. T. WHITTLE, Manager.
Directors.
SIR THOMAS BUCKLAND CECIL H. DOYLE
F. W. HIXSON JOHN EWING
N. L. SHAW. Assistant Manager.
23-25 O'CONNELL STREET, SYDNEY.
Business, Rollery, Etc.
Australia in the Empire’s Effort
Australia, like Great Britain, has had to
be ready to take a fair portion of the im-
pact of this war right on the chin. We are
in a fighting area, and, unlike the U.S.A.,
Canada and South Africa, aerial combat
has taken place over our mainland and
actual invasion of Australian territory has
occurred. When the Japs crossed the
Owen Stanleys they were within 350 miles
of Cape York, with a convenient chain
of islands behind them. At Timor they
are about the same distance from the
nearest Australian coast. The Common-
wealth is definitely menaced so long as a
Japanese menace exists in the South
Pacific.
The Japs carried their sweep through
Burma right to the gates of India. But
the Indians don’t seem to know whether
they are in the war or out of it. In any
case, they are comparatively prosperous.
A big flow of capital has come into the
country, and defence expenditure is
mainly a matter for the British Govern-
ment to look after. India is definitely
interested on the receiving side of all this ;
so great has been Britain’s expenditure in
the country that the foreign debt is being
quickly paid off, and industries such as
cotton-spinning and -weaving given a
great impetus. Shirtings, etc., once
almost a monopoly of Lancashire, are
now coming from India to Australia in
increasing proportions. India is being
“babied along” because of political—and
strategic—considerations, and investments
in India are probably sharing in the
babying.
In South Africa there is more babying,
political considerations being the major
reason. The Union’s war effort is of the
highest class, but in proportion to white
population there is not as much of it
as in Australia or Canada. The civilian
petrol ration is much greater. The fact
that goldmining is not being curtailed on
the Rand as in Australia and North
America may be no clear-cut indicator ;
but Finance Minister Hofmeyr probably
sized the situation up pretty well when
he said: “I believe the war effort will
decrease if gold production is curtailed.
The maintenance of gold production has
a stabilising effect not only on our econo-
mic affairs but on our politics.” Gold
production in S. Africa at present exceeds
a million fine ounces a month, with a
higher annual monetary value than the
Australian wool cheque, but without
present use as a munition of war. A
substantial part of Rand dividends goes
to London and New York, but the Union
gets expenses, taxes and some of the
profit out of the gold proceeds first.
Canada has turned on a splendid war
effort, more particularly as regards pro-
duction. A second $lOOO million gift of
munitions is to be made, this time to the
United Nations instead of Britain alone,
and Australia will share in it.
The Bank of Canada points out that
during 1936-42 the Dominion paid off
$1413 million of its foreign debt, which
includes money owing to Great Britain.
In 1942 alone $290 million was paid off,
in spite of greatly-increased war expendi-
ture and the gift of 1000 million dollars’
worth of goods and services to Britain.
Canada at the same time pays cash for
munitions imported, and is not accepting
lend-lease aid. Among the imported
munitions are aero engines from the
U.S.A. This has assisted Canada con-
siderably in attaining its present remark-
able variety and quantity of fighting-
’plane output. But there is no doubt
about the broad, solid base of the
Dominion’s war effort. It spreads through
both the industrial and financial aspects
of the picture. The Dominion has its
political and other troubles, but final re-
sults speak for themselves.
Australia, in spite of the grim near-
ness of war and the burdens and
disruption suffered by its economy
and way of living, politically is not rising
to the task in front of it. While the Aus-
tralian air is full of talk about a new
order and the like, as well as, in another
key, the blows war has dealt families
individually and collectively, Canberra’s
behavior is undermining the economic
future of the nation. How to deal with
the problems now besetting Australia
and those which will confront us after
the war is a matter calling for the sober
and sincere attention of everyone. But
Canberra continues along a path of poli-
tical expediency, humbug and smoke-
screen. The truth is dragged out of the
Government, as a rule, as in the case of
the supposed “lag year.” The voting
majority continues to be sold a line of
political self-pity and self-satisfaction,
and a hard (if thin) skin of selfishness
and immediate self-interest has been en-
couraged to grow on all classes. The
search for a high standard of living (the
A.C.T.U. a short time ago tried to use
the war as a means to this end!) by
principally selfish and misguided means
has resulted in a high cost of living in
this country.
The lack of sense displayed in much
Australian behavior arises largely from
the breeding of class-hatred and self-
concern by parasitic politicians and trade-
union bosses. Because of bad or un-
reliable management of our internal
affairs we are getting out of step with
the rest of the world. We haven’t some
of those natural, strategic or political
advantages of the other leading British
Dominions, which are strengthening their
external credit position in spite of
this war; on the other hand, largely
because of internal political agitation and
friction, we are putting in our own way
many obstacles in addition to those thrust
on us by the enemy. What sort of “new
order” can we expect from this sort of
political management? The answer is
“disorder.”
Consider the task that is confronting
Australia. It not only has to provide
fighting forces on a greater proportionate
scale than most of the other Dominions
—and these forces are taken from indus-
try whether they are restricted in their
area of operations or not —but it has
also to turn out big quantities of muni-
tions and spend great sums on the servic-
ing of Allied troops in this Pacific area
as well. And whatever help we get by
lend-lease in return, however great its
quantity and vital its kind, it is not
saving Australia from a testing economic
burden.
Instead of, like Canada, India and S.
Africa, improving our overseas credit, we
are going further into debt. The excess
of overseas spending over income so far
has not been very great; up to Sept. 30
last the addition to our London debt in
respect of the present war was £17.8
million. During 1943 it appears that
further debits will be incurred in excess
of our income; Treasurer Chifley says
our war outgo abroad will be over £BO
million for 1942-43, against an estimate
of £5O million in the Budget, and that
surplus revenue from exports, etc., will
be no more than this figure. Any excess
will be chalked up in London for con-
sideration after the war, but, meantime,
it looks like a debt.
Revised figures have lately been pub-
lished concerning war expenditure this
year. Consider them:
Budget Revised
Estimates. Estimates. Increase.
Expenditure— £ mil. £ mil. £ mil.
War —Australia .. 390 460 70
Overseas 50 80 30
Totals .. .. 440 540 100
Other expenditure 109 112 3
Total expenditure 549 652 103
Revenue .. .. 249 262 13
Balance by loans
and Treasury bills 300 390 90
The rise of £lOO million in the estimated
outlay on war represents an addition of
£l4 a head to the burden, raising it to
£77 a head. The total of £540 million
means over half the last estimate of the
annual national income—£9Bo million. Of
this £540 million expenditure it is pro-
posed to meet £390 million (72y p.c.) by
borrowing and bank-credit creation.
In view of this inflationary method of
financing such a thing as war waste, the
question arises as to whether the £540
million is not an unnecessarily costly
figure—whether it is not partly a crea-
tion of political waste, past and antici-
pated, and inflation. It is indeed doubt-
ful whether Australia is sufficiently well
organised to spend £540 million, legiti-
mately and prudently on defence.
Waste is inevitable in war. But in Aus-
tralia’s case, with so many Allied hands
as well as Australian shaping the cost
of our war bill, the danger of money-
wastage is increased. And money-wast-
age means inflation. Added to the in-
flationary method of finance deliberately
chosen by Canberra, now to be only
partly remedied, the whole thing has its
ominous aspects. When considered in
relation to the war effort in other parts
of the Empire, Australia’s puffed-up
economy looks vulnerable and rickety.
The ill-health in Australian finance is
self-inflicted. The country has been let
down by politics and sectionalism, accom-
panied by incipient Communism.
One of the neatest replies to the talk
of the Archbishop of Canterbury around
the subject of the profit motive —columns
of argument arose out of it in Australia
—was written by G. L. Schwartz, in the
“Banker,” London. He starts off:
“Not only is the capitalist system sordid;
it doesn’t even work.” Thus the Arch-
bishop of Canterbury, if he has not been
misreported. Now there is every excuse for
a Prophet of the Lord laboring under the
impression that he is fed by ravens: it is
even possible that in the higher ranks of
the hierarchy of the Church of England the
commissariat is still airborne. But has his
Grace ever reflected on the processes by
which curates and laymen obtain their early-
morning cup of tea? Not an ounce of tea
is grown within a thousand miles of the
British Isles... .There is no Central Com-
missar for Tea superintending the whole
business, and the structure of the industry
is a gift to those people who denounce
the “chaos of unco-ordinated enterprise”
and the “anarchy of competition.” And
what is the result? If there is one thing
you can get almost anywhere at any time
in the British Isles it is a nice cup of tea.
The article concludes; “No one who
starts with the crude proposition that the
system doesn’t work has the slightest
qualification for demonstrating how it
could work or ought to work. His Grace
may believe he is bringing down the
tables from Sinai to the pagan wor-
shippers of the gold standard. I believe
that if he smote some of his planning
confreres and advisers over the head,
water would assuredly gush forth.”
* * * *
The report, signed by V. V. Jacomini,
H. S. Bell and H. S. J. Hebley, of the
U.S. Petroleum Policy Committee has
been tabled in the Federal House by
Supply Minister Beasley and referred to
the Parliamentary Public Works Com-
mittee. Both the Newnes and Baerami
oil-shale deposits have been investigated.
Conditional upon three-shift mining
and complete mechanisation, contemplat-
ing the extraction of pillars, it is sug-
gested that £5,619,000 more be spent on
Newnes and Baerami, about £500,000-
worth of U.S. equipment being brought
out for Newnes and £900,000-worth for
Baerami. Both projects, it is said,
could be completed in 18 months. It is
estimated that at Newnes output of crude
oil could be stepped up from 17 million
gallons to 39 million gallons annually,
and at Baerami a crude-oil production
of 37 million gallons is looked for. At
Glen Davis final output is dissected as
follows:
Petrol, 22.4 million gallons; light diesel,
2.9 million gallons; gas oil, 2.8 million
gallons; wax, 12 million pounds; fuel oil,
5.4 million gallons; coke, 2600 tons.
Based on 1942 prices, the value of this
output is put at £2,005,810, exes, at
£819,200, in addition to interest and amor-
tisation.
Baerami figures are:
Petrol, 22.3 million gallons; light diesel
oil, 448,320 gallons; gas oil, 7.2 million
gallons; fuel oil, 3.5 million gallons.
Value, £1,744,618; costs, £955,575.
The whole scheme depends, in its initial
stages, upon whether the proposed
method of mining conforms with the
N. S. Wales Mining Act. High priorities
are suggested for the materials required,
and “a suitable water supply must be
developed” at Newnes. At Baerami,
which is still in an almost undeveloped
state, the retorts would be placed ad-
jacent to the mine at Ruben’s Gully.
From there the crude oil would be piped
to a refinery, possibly near Muswell-
brook. V. V. Jacomini formerly did work
for the Standard Oil Co. of Australia, a
concern which had “done” most of its
money before the American Hcarne
attached to it. It had a last fling at the
Baerami leases, but couldn’t raise the
necer-ary capital for the job it contem-
plated.


Personal and Missing Friends.
ONE Pound Reward will be paid for informa-
tion of present whereabouts of ELSE ELIZA-
BETH MAGDALENA HODGES, otherwise
known as RUTKEWITZ and formerly as
NORDA MATA. —CHRYSTAL & MAGUIRE,
Solicitors, 246 Queen Street, Brisbane.
RE ISABELLA RAMSAY McKELLAR—
-1.15675. —NOTICE is hereby given that all
persons claiming to be the next-of-kin of ISA-
BELLA RAMSAY McKELLAR, Spinster, late
of Sandgate Road, Nundah, Brisbane, in the
State of Queensland, deceased, are hereby re-
quired to forward proof of their relationship to
the PUBLIC CURATOR, Brisbane, on or be-
fore 11th August, 1943, and that after the ex-
piration of the date mentioned the Public
Curator will proceed to distribute the assets
of the said deceased amongst the parties en-
titled thereto, having regard only to the claims
of which he shall then have had notice.
5
E
£0
S
LOTIO
EYE
For Inflamed Eyes and Eyelids
SOLD EVERYWHERE
H. A. Rose & Co. Pty. Ltd., King St., Sydney
New Invention Controls
RUPTURE
No Springs—No Cushions
This latest invention by Dr. L. Barrere brings
to rupture sufferers an entirely new method of
control. It is the result of 40 years’ practice
and improvements, and has been proved com-
pletely successful by all who have tried it.
The NEO-BARRERE acts like the hand when
placed flat upon the orifice. You will at once,
without effort and in all movements, hold the
intestine in its cavity.
Write to-day for FREE LITERATURE.
BARRERE DISTRIBUTION CO.
(Dept. 20), 243 ELIZABETH ST., SYDNEY
BiLLABONG” Centrifugals
PUMP
WATER
v BY TUB ACRE
WRITE
TO
THE MAKERS
JOHN BANKS S SON Pty. Ltd
391-403 BOURKE STREET, MELBOURNE,
AND AT 324-330 PITT STREET,
SYDNEY.
It is your duty to stop all non-essential spending
to save your money and to lend what you save
to buy the arms and equipment needed by our
troops.
When you remember this duty you share in the
Victory won by the fighting men using the
’planes, tanks, guns and ammunition which your
money has helped to provide.
Make up your mind now to share with the fighting men in the grim tasks
which lie ahead ... To them is reserved the honour of the battle, but
without your support, if they were left short of equipment, even their
great bravery could not wrest victory from our implacable well-armed
foes. Work, for Victory—save every penny and lend till it hurts.
Here is what your money can buy
6(1. buys a War Savings Stamp
16'- a £1 War Savings Certificate
£lO a National Savings Bond
Or you may make an advance sub-
scription to the next War Loan at
any Bank, Savings Bank or Stock-
broker.
HAS YOUR STREET A WAR SAVINGS GROUP?
Every street may participate in
Australia’s War Savings Drive.
When a group in your street has
been formed, a sign will be erected
in a prominent position. An author-
ised collector will call on you.
Form a Group of your own
ţ
If no one has called on you so far, apply at your
local Council Chambers for a Voluntary Worker’s
Badge and start a group yourself.
Nothing matters now hut
VICTORY
SAVE AND LEND
It was reported last week that the
Crown Law Office had advised the Com-
monwealth that there had never been any
lag year in the collection of tax ;
levies based on the previous year’s in-
come are in respect of the current year,
subject to adjustment only. Later on in
the House Treasurer Chifley said that he
did. not want to enter into “any disputa-
tion at present” on the question. Accept-
ance of the Crown Law Office’s ruling
will clarify the position agreeably from
the taxpayer’s viewpoint, but, in addition
to the fact that money on a large scale
has still to be raised for war purposes,
there remains another departmental prob-
lem. It has been the practice in the past
to assume that there has been a lag year,
and, though this may now be straightened
out automatically in the case of living
people, all taxpayers who died over a
considerable period of years appear to
have paid one year’s tax too much
through their executors. This also applies
to persons who have left the country.
The Statutes of Limitations would bar
the recovery of overpayments made more
than six years ago.
% s|i
By proclamation, Australia is to grant
the United States “most-favored-nation”
treatment under the tariff. Senator Keane
says the United States has for several
years accorded the Commonwealth a
similar concession. “It is wrong,” he
added, “that our principal ally should
remain on the punitive tariff —the general
tariff.” The intermediate tariff came into
operation on Jan. 1, 1937, and m.f.n.
treatment was accorded to about 140 tariff
items imported from “proclaimed coun-
tries.” The U.S.A, was a notable
exception from these, and Japan,
then a heavy buyer of Australian wool,
was granted intermediate rates only on
11 items of artificial-silk and cotton piece-
goods. The reason why the U.S.A. was
not given m.f.n. treatment by this country
arose out of the unbalanced nature of our
trade. It was customary for the U.S. to
buy from us only" a fifth as much as it
sold.
* * * *
During December, which is usually a
month of Christmas spending, Austra-
lians added £3.1 million to their bulging
deposits in the savings-banks, as against
£4.5 million in the preceding month and
£6.1 million in October. The decline in
November and December deposits is not
large enough to suggest the subscription
of more than four millions or so to the
£lOO-million Austerity loan by persons
with savings-bank accounts. Analysis of
the loan figures issued by the Treasury
has already suggested that, economically
and politically, it was an unsatisfactory
operation, and s.-b. statistics now provide
further evidence of the poor results of
the “voluntary” system. Institutions are
still the biggest supporters of war loans.
Since Dec., 1938, Australian s.-b. deposits
have grown from £244.8 million to
£309 million, an increase of £64 million.
But this anomalous apparent enrichment
of the people during war-time is largely
defeating itself; in order to keep step
with the 21 p.c. inflation in living costs
over the same period an increase of £5l
million was required anyway.
* * * *
Net proceeds of war-savings certifi-
cates totalled £31.2 million at the end
of 1942. They represent less than £5 a
head of the population—a very poor
showing. Savings-bank deposits amount
to over £44 a head.
* * * *
The note issue, although it has lost
little or none of the Christmas-time ex-
pansion, has been inclined to steady, but
during the week to Feb. 15 there was a
rise of a million to £126 million. War-
time deposits by trading banks with the
central bank have grown to £BO million.
Mr. Chifley was recently sufficiently care-
less of the truth to infer that these were
excess war-time profits of the banks!
Government securities held in the note-
issue and trading departments of the bank
have now swollen to £287 million, up
£ll5 million in 12 months,
¥ * * *
The Mortgage Bank Bill discussed last
week provides for loans for periods of
between five years and 41 years, and the
maximum advance is set at £5OOO, with
a limit of 66| p.c. of the security. Mr.
McEwen said the Opposition would give
support to the bill; its terms .were so
moderate that Montagu Norman, of the
Bank of England, might have been con-
sulted in framing it. On the other hand,
Abbott, of the Country party, referred
to the proposed bank as “a monstrosity.”
Wilson, of the Wimmera, at whose special
request the bill has been brought down,
doesn’t seem too jubilant about the form
it has taken, either.
* * * *
Shares continue to be firmly held at the
restricted prices offering on ’Change.
Fears of further substantial inflation in
costs and prices, resulting from the
political methods being used to finance
the expenditure on war, are largely re-
sponsible.
* * * *
After a little city shopping in these
days of short supplies of nearly every-
thing—including shop assistants —the
impression is that the customer is always
wrong.
* * * *
It is officially forecast that after the
war Britain’s shipping and financial ser-
vices will bring in less, and that efforts
must be made to increase exports by
hundreds of millions of pounds. At the
same time agriculture is to be kept at as
high a level “as is consistent with sound
economic practice.” This is to reduce, as
f ar as possible, the cost of imports.
■* * * *
Control of Bebarfald’s, Sydney furni-
ture store, has passed largely to Mel-
bourne. Renziti Rich, former chairman
and managing director, has disposed of
his ord. shares, and those of his family
have also passed to a group represented
on the co.’s board by Maurice Shmith,
Lionel Newton and J. V. Ratchffe. In-
eluded in the sale were 99,500 B pref.
shares. Ord. capital is £213,400 and A
pref. £lOO,OOO.


THE SERVICE MAN
German Stroke in Tunisia.
“Ek Dam”: The enemy may have
been knocked groggy in the U.S.S.R.,
where, according to Moscow correspon-
dents, he is routed and fleeing in con-
fusion, but his panic has not communi-
cated itself to Tunisia.
During the past fortnight, choosing the
most likely point for a successful blow,
he has made offensive strokes against
the French and Allied troops round Paid
Pass and against the Americans at Gafsa
which set them back on their haunches.
He probably chose the French and Ameri-
cans for his main blows because they
were inexperienced troops. No matter
how good troops may be —and the Ameri-
cans, as we know, are of splendid
quality — the battle-seasoned attacker
always has an advantage over them for
a moment, especially if he can muster
heavy armor and dive-bomber units.
Because he hoped and aimed to estab-
lish superiority of morale, the enemy used
a sledgehammer against the positions
which he wished to crack —no less than
the substantial weight of the best part of
two crack divisions,
Rommel’s 21st and the super-heavy 10th.
Americans had advanced along the
Gafsa-Maknassi west-east road leading
to Sfax, somewhat too quickly for per-
manence, timing their drive with an-
other Allied advance down the more
northerly fork of road which links the
Mediterranean south coast with central
Tunis. The Axis divisions already had
taken the Paid Pass back from Allied
invaders. Now they went on grabbing
Sidi Bousid, and thus threatening any
Allied forces which might be between
the Algerian central border and the Gulf
coast, and the rear of the Americans who
had pushed along the Gafsa-Maknassi-
Sfax rail. The Americans were com-
pelled to regroup in the hills n.-w. of
the Sbeitla-Feriana road.
With a second blow on Feb. 20 the
enemy flung the Americans back from
the Kesserine Pass behind their new line
on the direct approaches to Tebessa,
which lies across the Algerian border.
British Guards repulsed a heavy patrol
n.-e. of Kesserine and destroyed four
tanks and 12 armored vehicles.
The Tunisian Stakes
Of three zones in Tunisia, the far
north is where the rainfall is heaviest.
It is bounded on the south by the
Mejerda River valley, which widens to-
wards the north-east into the Sukh-el-
Arta, then narrows into a series of gorges
and finally pours itself out into the ter-
tiary plain roughly bounded by lines be-
tween Mateur, Tunis and Bizerta.
South and west of this is an area, about
180 miles long and 80 miles wide,
which contains the continuation of
the Algerian Atlas ranges, a dis-
trict which in features, if not geolo-
gically, is similar to Australia’s Blue
Mountains—the great Mactar Massif, with
steep sides about 4500 feet high. South
of this are more mountain chains, largely
limestone, with sheer walls which end
abruptly in the lake district of the Shat-
el-Djerid. The lakes or swamps reach
almost to the coast near Gabes, leaving
only a narrow gateway. Across this, to
the south, the French before the war
threw the strong palisade of the Mareth
Line to bar off unwelcome visitors from
Tripoli.
The hills and mountains from the
Djerid lakes northward to beyond the
Mejerda River form the barrier which
the invading Allies from Algeria have to
cross. Crossing-places are circumscribed
in number —as they are in the Blue
Mountains. The passes in the rugged,
steep-walled, often timbered mountain
chains are the gates through which the
Allies seek to break.
The rainfall of Tunisia ranges from
30 inches in the north down to eight
inches or less in the more barren parts
of the south in the Eighth Army’s zone.
But, like such rainfall in Australia,
it is strictly seasonal, producing periodic
flooding, and is highly sensitive to pre-
vailing winds, so that forecast is difficult.
January is the month of heaviest rain,
and the wet season runs from October
to May. Again, like all such seasonal
country, Tunisia is subject to instan-
taneous bog when it rains, and its rivers
become turbulent. In the middle of the
“dry” the Mejerda, 220 miles long, creas-
ing n.-e. across the rugged landscape of
the First Army’s zones, is a brook which
a he-goat could jump ; in January it is
a roaring torrent, its delta plains a slough.
The Allies are now wrestling with the
difficulties arising out of the winter wet-
ness, the cards being momentarily stacked
against them. The nature of the country
imposes disjointed action on their various
component armies—the British First and
the centrally placed French in the
Kairouan region, the Americans of the
Maknassi drive, Montgomery’s Eighth
Army in the south reaching for the hasp
of the Mareth Line gate which Rommel
has closed behind him, and General Le
Clerc’s desert forces.
Apart from the mountains, with the
long communications to Algeria behind,
there are the now-subsiding rain torrents
overlapping the roads. There also is a
break in railway gauges which is awkward
—the northern sector line, which links
Tunis and Bizerta to Algeria, is 1.44
metre (4ft. Byin. approx.), and the rest
of the lines only 1.055 metre (3ft. 6in.),
so that the same rolling stock is not avail-
able for both.
Tunisian Minerals
There are two inland loops of railway
of importance pushing into the hills from
Susa and Sfax and linking with the lines
making into Algeria and with the con-
tinuation of the north-south line to
Gabes. Most of them were built to serve
mining for products which to the Ger-
mans are worth considerably more than
all Hitler’s intuitions and Goring’s
medals.
If there is one thing Germany must be
starving for it is chemical fertilisers and
phosphates. The hills round Gafsa
against which their tank forces have
struck so, heavily and out of which they
have pushed the Americans are the centre
of a district which before the war used
to produce a quarter of the whole of the
world’s phosphatic-rock supply —nearly
2.000. tons —as well as iron, lead and
zinc. The olive districts have in the past
shown themselves capable of producing
16.000. gallons of oil a year, apart
from 600,000 tons of wheat and barley
from the coastal grainlands.
Here then is a source of some of the
things which the Germans most need,
apart from the strategical value of the
country and its ports and the opportunity
of impressing the Moslem world. For
those things the Germans will fight,
while the Italians, who form more than
50 per cent, of the European population,
and the conscripted natives will be
pressed into service in the Axis cause.
American Losses
On the line between Gafsa and
Sbeitla, the western angles of a rectangle
formed with the ports of Sfax and Gabes,
the German thrusts compelled the U.S.
and other Allied forces to fall back west-
ward, so that their flanks might not be
assailed or their rear threatened. The
main attacks were made at the northern
end of this 75-miles-long line, and if
they succeeded in reaching Tebessa the
Axis troops might cut the Allied north-
south communications in half and decant
Hun floodwaters into Algeria.
Results to the week-end were serious
up to a point. The U.S. 12th Air Force
had been forced to retire from its for-
ward ’dromes, which were used for the
bombing of the Gulf ports, particularly
Sfax. The coastal corridor had been
widened at a point at which the foe most
needs it widened, thus giving him more
room for manoeuvre. The effect on the
native attitude must be bad. And the
drive was certainly heavy, and swift
enough to cause considerable loss of
American man-power, Rome Radio
placed U.S. losses at 2876 prisoners, 169
tanks and 95 armored cars. Berlin earlier
had claimed that the U.S. forces lost
3000 killed, 5000 to 6000 wounded
and 781 prisoners, with 23 guns, 33
armored lorries and 93 mobile a.-t. guns,
besides 97 tanks. London said the esti-
mate was “a gross exaggeration.”
War Secretary Stimson admitted that
the Americans had suffered “a sharp re-
verse and substantial losses of men and
equipment, many tanks destroyed by
dive-bombers” —in fact, “a serious local
setback which should not be minimised
or exaggerated.”
The German-American fighting which
preceded the Kesserine affair occu-
pied four days. The territory lost
with Gafsa and Sbeitla was about 4000
square miles, from which cut-off parties
were still straggling back days after the
end of the battle and the withdrawal of
the Americans into the ranges. But after-
wards they were able to deliver fierce
counter-strokes which in the Paid Pass
region pushed the enemy back,
Mr. Stimson’s description sums the
situation up fairly. The effect of such
defeats locally is not good, but they are
to be expected until the troops get their
experience, which they can earn only by
being blooded. They will be as quick
to learn as they were in France.
The weather in the south (Sin. rainfall
country) is more favorable to fighting
than a little farther north, where it will be
still some time before it is fit for large-
scale mechanised fighting. And when it
is the decision will be won not in the
centre but at the extremes of the Ger-
man-held territory.
The Eighth Army at Work
The Eighth Army has begun to move
in the dry Medenine region of the south,
spreading out with its French Allies to
infiltrate the enemy’s Mareth positions as
far as practicable and to keep the gate
to the south and south-west locked until
it can be fitted out for another El Ala-
mein. In the game of equipment, Tripoli
will play the part of a new Alexandria.
Reports from Algiers that the Eighth
Army has launched a full-scale attack on
the Gabes Gap need to be read with
caution. It has attacked so far only
points of approach to the Mareth Line.
So swiftly have the Royal Engineers
done their work of fishing tangled iron
out of Tripoli harbor that the first of the
Eighth Army’s convoys sailed in during
the week. On the same day the largest
convoy Malta had ever seen crammed
Valetta and filled the sardine-tin island
with excitement at the sight of thousands
of tons of food, ammunition, pettol and
a fine fat convoy of the R.A.F. to swell
the legions of the sky which already are
making things hot for Sicily and its sur-
rounding seas, along with the U.S. Air
Force, which bombed Cagliari (Sardinia)
with deadly effect —Rome said there were
1600 casualties.
Navy and Air Force
So long as the enemy can be contained
until the two British armies at the ex-
treme ends of the Axis-held terri-
tory, and the Central U.S.-French forces
are ready to strike, and the organisation
has been completed to make the narrow
seas across to Italy an inferno, there
seems no doubt about the final issue.
However, Rommel’s and Arnim’s sup-
posed 250,000 mixed troops are a hard
nut to crack.
It will be scarcely surprising if the full
strength of the Allied blows is not felt
until the spring is well advanced. By that
time the Mediterranean navies will be
substantially augmented, and supplies will
have grown mountain-high in Algeria,
unless the U-boat campaign is won by
the wrong party.
Air Marshals Tedder and Coningham
arrived at Algiers from London last week
after talking over their plans in West-
minster.
On Feb. 20 a new naval Mediterranean
command came into existence. It will
include Malta, Tripoli and Sardinia,
according to Admiral Cunningham, who
added sardonically that the enemy “still
had enough shipping for a Tunisian Dun-
kirk.” His own great hope was that the
enemy would try it and bring the Italian
Fleet out to help.
The admiral reported that Britain and
U.S.A. had lost under 2 per cent, of 780
ships, totalling 6,500,000 tons, which had
sailed for North Africa since Nov. 8 ;
while the Italians and Germans —“though
they are still getting too much material”
—in January lost nearly 33 per cent, of
their vessels attempting the crossing.
A U.S. Army in Australia.
“Ek Dum”: The quietness in land
operations along the northern frontier
does not deceive military H.Q. From
Truk, the enemy’s main Caroline base,
southwards there are everywhere signs
that he is preparing for fresh adventures
with the approach of better weather.
The South-west Pacific Command is
not behindhand. Stores and trained men
are being produced in the Commonwealth
and imported at a great rate.
One of the best bits of news during
the week was Mr. Stimson’s announce-
ment that U.S. forces had reached a
point which permitted of the formation
of the new Sixth U.S. Army in Austra-
lia under Lieut.-General Krueger. The
general has served Uncle Sam in all his
wars since the Spanish-American. He
was chief of staff to the U.S. Tank Force
in Franca in 1918. He came to Austra-
lia from the command of the Third
American Army.
General MacArthur’s H.Q. described
the creation of the new army as an ad-
ministrative step of no operational signi-
ficance. It is due exclusively to the ex-
pansion of American man-power to the
stage at which an army administration
is warranted —an army is a group of corps
and integral divisions.
General Blarney’s operational com-
mand of the whole of the land forces in
the s.-w. Pacific area is not affected. But
the development gives him another
record. The first Australian to become
a full fighting general and to command
a force in action in Australian territory,
he now becomes the first Australian to
command a group of Allied armies.
War in the Air.
“Ek Dum”: The New Guinea war in
the last week has been almost entirely an
air war, with raids ranging over the long
distances between the N.E.I. in the north"
west and Buin in the east.
On February 16 the S.-w. Pacific H.Q.
reported a raid over Dobo, in the Arus,
which almost blotted out the little town
and apparently compelled the enemy to
abandon it as a base. At Amboina
heavy bombers hit an 8000-ton transport
with two 5001 b. bombs —“vessel probably
destroyed”—and started fires in the town-
ship. Dilli was twice attacked.
On Rabaul 38 tons of explosives and
1500 incendiaries were dropped. Fires
afterwards ringed the inner harbor, a
block of buildings in the north-eastern
section of the town was gutted and
ammunition dumps were heard going up.
Lae’s issue was 17 tons of bombs.
Another attack on Dilli was reported
on Feb. 17, and small surface craft were
destroyed by a low-level strafe at Sala-
maua. On Feb. 18 the H.Q. communique
mentioned the bombing of barges and
installations at Gasmata and the sinking
of an 80ft. enemy schooner off the New
Britain north coast.
Next day’s message described 24 hours
of general raiding, in which the objec-
tives in New Guinea included the aero-
drome areas of Madang, where a 300-ton
schooner and four launches were
wrecked. The damage was done by a
Beaufighter sweep, which began work at
Alexishafen, the German mission outside
Madang, which had become the centre
of German propaganda in the Mandated
Territory before the outbreak of war,
equipped with its own aeroplanes and
freshly imported pilots. The Beaus
went so low that one pilot grazed a coco-
nut palm. More than 20,000 rounds of
machine-gun and cannon ammunition
were fired during the sweep.
At the week-end three successive raids
were made on Buin-Faisi by Australia-
based heavies. The first caught a number
of ’planes on the ground at Kahili ’drome
and destroyed them, besides starting in-
stallation fires. The second was a low-
level attack in which the big machines
swooped into fierce ack-ack fire and
made direct hits with 5001 b, bombs on
four cargo vessels aggregating 27,000
tons. A ship was left burning
from bow to stern, and the others seemed
to be badly knocked about. Next day,
when 23 tons of bombs started several
fires and left a trail of wreckage, there
were no ships in the harbor and virtu-
ally no interception.
During more than 20 raids in the week
no Allied ’plane was lost.
A couple of float ’planes visited Mer-
auke and Moresby.
On the Wau trail Australian forces
continued to push back the fugitive and
defeated Japanese column which had
attempted to raid the goldfields aero-
drome. A further 130 dead Japanese
were counted at various points.
Fights in the Solomons.
“Ek Dum”: The Japanese story of a
“resounding victory” in the Solomons,
with American battleships and cruisers
going down like ninepins, was bowled
out last week, when the official U.S.
account was published.
Late in January U.S. reconnaissance
discovered a heavy fleet, including battle-
ships, between Truk and the Solomons
and an unusually large concentration ot
destroyers and other ships in Solomons-
New Guinea bases.
It seemed as if the stage was being set
for further large-scale naval operations,
but the Japs were not having any. They
were merely preparing for the Guadal-
canal evacuation. No contact was made
between heavy combatant forces.
On the evening of Jan. 29 a U.S. force
covering troop movements was attacked
by enemy torpedo ’planes near the Ren-
nell Islands. The cruiser Chicago, a
familiar sight in Australian ports and
a target at which the Japanese midget
subs, aimed during their Sydney Harbor
raid, was severely damaged and taken in
tow. But next day she was attacked
again by 13 enemy machines and sunk,
though the bulk of the personnel was
saved. Twelve enemy machines were
shot down during the final combat.
On Jan. 31 United States ’planes found
a destroyer, a corvette and a large cargo
vessel in Vella Gulf and left them ur
ing and listing. ar .
On Feb. 1 four enemy destroyers were
attacked in the northern Solomons. iw>
also were roughly handled ; Two are
lieved to have been sunk and a third was
left on fire. Two out of ten covering
“O’s” were shot down and two


sYme/h ffloual ffliqtle tfhra
’planes were lost. Hot combats went on
that day all round Guadalcanal; 20
enemy and 10 American machines were
downed. During these fights enemy dive-
bombers sank a U.S. destroyer in the
narrow strait between Savo Island and
Guadalcanal. Three torpedo-boats also
were lost. That night, of 20 enemy de-
stroyers which approached Guadalcanal,
one was sunk and two others are be-
lieved to have been sunk.
On Feb. 2 two enemy destroyers were
hit north of New Georgia. Flying For-
tresses set a cargo ship on fire in the
Shortlands and shot down half a force of
20 fighters which attacked them.
Next day again another 20 Jap de-
stroyers were sighted 200 miles n.-w. of
Guadalcanal. A destroyer was sunk,
another was badly damaged. Later one
was noticed heavily on fire. Seven “O’s”
were shot down, and five others probably
destroyed. Four U.S. torpedo ’planes, a
bomber and a fighter did not come home.
Another formation of Dauntless dive-
bombers, escorted by Warhawks, found
18 destroyers—whether the same lot
attacked by the first U.S. squadrons is
not clear —and damaged two. For a loss
of four U.S. machines, 10 “O’s” were
destroyed. In effect. Uncle Sam’s gallant
fellows had much the better of all these
exchanges, as they had in the fighting on
Guadalcanal itself.
Attacks are still continuing on Munda,
the Jap base in New Georgia, and on
ships and ’planes in the vicinity. More
ships were hit between Feb. 7 and 18,
including destroyers.
Colonel Knox said last week that the
enemy had been able to make only
limited use of Munda, because of Allied
attacks.
"'Plane Over Sydney."
“Ek Dum”: The nearness of the war
was brought home to Sydney on the
anniversary of the dreadful raid on Dar-
win on February 19, 1942.
Early in the evening—moonlit and
with a little cloud —a wardens’ alert was
sounded. After radio stations had gone
off the air, came an air-raid warning.
Lights went out, and after a couple of
hours of speculation and rumor, the “all
clear” was heard.
It was noticeable that the bulk of
people did not crowd to shelters as they
did in the first alarm last year.
Major-General Fewtrell, G.0.C., N. S.
Wales Lines of Communications, issued
the official version of what happened:
Early in the evening an enemy aero-
plane, apparently from a submarine, was
located moving eastwards along the coast.
Yellow warnings were issued in the metro-
politan and Kembla areas and, later, when
the ’plane was in the vicinity of‘the latter
area, a blackout was ordered. At a later
stage an aeroplane was discovered over the
metropolitan area and an anti-aircraft bat-
tery immediately opened fire.
On the first round being fired the ’plane
immediately turned and flew out to sea.
In view of the fact that ’planes from
submarines can carry bombs, it was de-
cided not to remove the blackout till a
later hour. About midnight it was decided
to remove the blackout in both areas. Credit
is due to the gunners of the ack-ack battery
which came into action immediately the
’plane was detected. All anti-aircraft bat-
teries in the Sydney and Kembla areas
were at their stations and on the alert.
Float ’planes from submarines are
small, slow affairs. They can carry no
heavy bomb-load. Their job being re-
connaissance, they are scarcely likely to
drop bombs, since they travel as light
as possible to increase their range and
speed, which is not very high. Pre-
cautions and blackouts are necessary,
however, as much to prevent reconnais-
sance as to prevent damage.
Float ’planes have been seen several
times round the Australian coasts, both
east and west —in the north they are
commonplace.
What was done by the military and
air authorities was little open to criti-
cism—it was easy to find completely
satisfactory reasons for how and when it
was done.
Russia and 1943.
“Ek Dum”: Movements in the
U.S.S.R. during the week to Feb. 21
roughly were as follows: —
In the Cis-Caucasus, the Russians
made some progress along the Kuban
River from Krasnodar, but assaults on
Novorossisk and attempts to reach the
Kerch Strait had not so far succeeded.
From Rostov, a halfway advance to-
wards Taganrog, 40 miles away, had
been made. Further north, but south
of the Kharkov region, there was also
some progress, but the general achieve-
ment was not possible to assess. The
biggest town taken was Slavyansk, 100
miles s.-e. of Kharkov, which was
snatched from the enemy with little more
than rearguard fighting in a few hours
after the suburban defences were
breached.
At the end of the week the German line
from north of Stalino to the coast seemed
to be much what it was last winter. There
was a German communication belt along
the Azov and Black Seas at least 100
miles wide to the Dnieper, beyond which
the Russians held no territory. No Ger-
man move for evacuation of the Crimea
was reported, nor is there any estimate of
the number of Germans in that mild-
wintered semi-island.
Kharkov Falls
For some days before February 16 it
had been reported that three Russian
forces were converging on Kharkov,
Moscow Radio had mentioned a week
before that the Germans were evacuat-
ing the city and that trains were stream-
ing westward from it crowded with the
fleeing enemy. ,
On February 16, however, it was re-
ported that units beyond Chuguyev, s.-e.
of Kharkov, had broken into the enemy
defences and captured prisoners and war
materials. In another sector of the Khar-
kov front, several counter-attacks had
been repelled and 11 German tanks and
about 200 tommy-gunners accounted for.
And both Berlin and Vichy spoke of new
violent attacks north, south and east of
Kharkov.
A few hours afterwards it was an-
nounced from Moscow that Kharkov
had been taken after severe street fight-
ing. This victory, it was said, had been
effected by an unexpected attack from
the north —the Germans having
assembled their main forces to the east
—while Russian columns from other
directions smashed into the defences.
Kharkov is a city about the size of Mel-
bourne as it was at the end of the last
war —population before its capture by
the enemy, about 800,000. The Ger-
mans marched in on October 24, 1941.
Attacks against their positions were
almost continuous from January to
March last year. In May, it was the
objective of Marshal Timoshenko’s drive.
Last year Kharkov had heavy guns,
everything that makes for defence and
forces that were able to throw back
Timoshenko’s armies, which seem to have
consisted of over 500,000 men, posted be-
tween Byelgorod and Isyum. This time
the forces mentioned as vainly opposing
the Russian advance were the Waffen
S.S. Corps—the Adolf Hitler and Reich
Tank Divisions and a motorised divi-
sion—and a number of German infantry
divisions and special units, including
some Rumanians.
It looked like a strong rearguard force
designed to provide cover while the
screen troops from the east made their
way rearward, to inflict whatever casual-
ties could be inflicted, and to destroy mili-
tary facilities. Not many details were
given by Moscow —up to February 22
there had been no estimate of German
casualties, of prisoners taken or of booty.
Only in two or three buildings in Khar-
kov did the enemy resist strongly.
Both sides reported that, before leav-
ing, the occupiers had wrought awful
havoc. Many hours before the German
High Command admitted that the town
had been retaken by the Russians Ber-
lin Radio declared that fighting was tak-
ing place mainly in the environs of the
city and that “the city itself is a mass
of flame ; the centre is impassable; all
military utilities and all traffic facilities
have been blown up.”
Whatever the circumstances, the re-
capture of the town was a great tactical
and a greater moral victory.
From Kharkov the Russians went on
to take more towns, many of which (in-
cluding Krasnograd) had been in their
hands last winter. Their advance to-
wards Dnepropetrovsk, the great city
above the Dnieperstroi Dam which they
themselves abandoned in 1941, brought
them to the farthest point on the Samara
River which they took last year; but
their penetration n.-w, of Kharkov and
along the Kremenchug and railroad went
further. By the week-end they had
approached Poltava. There were then still
a few German-held towns and villages
within 20 miles of Kharkov.
Further north, along the Moscow road,
the Russians were within a few miles of
Orel, but had not taken it. It is the last
block in direct rail communication be-
tween Moscow and the Donetz.
The week was one of swift and bewilder-
ing advances, the story of which was illu-
minated by little clear detail, even about
the weather. One Moscow correspon-
dent pictured the temperature as below
zero Fahrenheit by several degrees, with
“a howling snow blizzard raging” ; an-
other said it was “the hardest frost” he
had “ever seen.” Some referred to tanks
and guns romping through the snow in
hundreds ; one described how the forces
which surprised Kharkov marched
“several dozen miles” within 24 hours.
At the week-end the first thaw was noticed
in the Caucasian area and in parts of
the Ukraine front.
The chief fact, however, is that the
Germans have abandoned Kharkov,
which was considered a main base, and
the Russians day by day are pressing
towards Orel, their last main post on the
Moscow-Kharkov railway. As here re-
marked (B. 17/2/’43), the enemy might
conceivably give up Orel without much
resistance; on the other hand, he might
try to retain it to continue to block rail-
way traffic between Moscow and the
south.
The Northern Position
Nobody knows for certain what rail-
ways the Germans have converted to their
own gauge, what towns they have turned
into hedgehogs, what their Russian-front
strength is. Reports from Ankara and
the Balkans speak of troops pouring
eastward from Germany mainly toward
Kiev. It takes four to 4\ days to move
a corps direct from northern France to
the old White Russian border.
The position from Leningrad to Cen-
tral Russia is much the aame as it was
last winter at the same time, save that
the Russians hold Velikiye Luki. How-
ever, on the main north-south line from
Leningrad, which runs to Vitebsk, then
to the Dnieper and almost due south to
join the Ukrainian main system at Ber-
dichev, west of Kiev, the enemy has Novo
Sokolniki, into which the Russians have
not broken, though it is only 20 miles
or so from Velikiye Luki. Staraya Russa
is not in the news this year.
South-east of Leningrad there has been
heavy but indecisive fighting. Corre-
spondents report a heavier German bom-
bardment of Leningrad, One declared
that the Germans were firing 10-inch
shrapnel shells into the city. Shrapnel
of that magnitude is a distinct novelty—
in fact, shrapnel of any kind is a novelty
in 1943 warfare. If it is being used it
savors of enforced economy in the use
of h.e. —a point which may be important.
Much of the area occupied by the Rus-
sians in the north is normally swamp land
and bog. Last year they gave it up when
the thaw came.
The Smolensk “Fist”
Through the centre of West Russia runs
the great German fist of which the bones
are the central railway systems between
Moscow and Poland. It is about the same
shape and size as at the same time last
year, with an outstuck thumb at Rshev.
As in 1942, nobody appears to be able
to take an oath whether the Rshev for-
tress area is or is not completely sur-
rounded by Russian troops. It seems to
have a corridor which joins it to the rest
of Hitler’s outstretched fist in Russia and
allows supplies to flow to it from Smol-
ensk. The southern part of the knuckles
is at Bryansk and Orel.
Between the Orel-Bryansk areas an-
other westward-reaching Russian salient
is forming to within 100 miles of the
Azov Sea south of Kharkov. It is in
this region that the Red Army in the
last few days has been burrowing west-
ward until it has reached Poltava. Its
van is almost on the edges of the high
moraine battleground round which the
German armored columns closed —Gude-
rian and Von Weich, from Gomel to the
north-west via Konotop; Von Reiche-
nau and Kleist, via Kremenchug from
the s.-e. —with disaster to Budenny’s
armies after the capture of Kiev in Sep-
tember, 1941.
Poltava is on the eastward edge of an
area which many a general has chosen
as a major battleground.
The Russians have reached a point at
which a further advance will place them
between thick north and south layers of
the enemy almost at the change of
season, when snow and blizzard begin
to give way to intermittent weather, when
some rivers begin to run as the ice breaks
and the black soil, particularly that in
the Don Bend west of the Donetz, turns
into gluepot and swamp. The first Don
flooding is due in a few weeks.
The official spring, according to the
enemy’s reckoning of the end of winter
campaigning, is six weeks away—he
placed the date last year at April 15.
Russian Reserves
In the thaw period the advantages in
communications are on the German side.
Railways, in bog seasons, are priceless
assets and can operate when road trans-
port cannot. The enemy has at least five
railways, four sources of supply and
three big marshalling bases to every one
which the Russians possess to feed their
Ukrainian front, and those which the
Russians possess have been through the
fire of German occupation. German lines
of communication also are shorter. The
enemy can transport supplies by sea in the
Baltic, and in the west of the Black Sea
to Odessa, Sevastopol, Kherson, Niko-
laev and other ports without serious in-
terference from the Red Fleet, whose
scope of action is limited by its abiilty to
provide itself with effective fighter cover.
The Russians nevertheless should have
an advantage in man-power reserves, as
they have had in every war, especially if
the casualties in the Don Bend campaign
are anything like they have been repre-
sented —General Chugiov, commanding
the Russians in Stalingrad, declared that
the fight for that city alone cost the enemy
1,500,000 men in killed, wounded and
prisoners. The Russians in the last war,
despite the unfavorable conditions, aston-
ished the Germans by their ability to pro-
duce reserves. This time the same should
apply but in a greater degree.
More Tasks Ahead
There is still 500,000 square miles of
Russia in German hands, and German
strength and resources are far from ex-
hausted. Before the Germans are out of
Russia many things have to be done. The
dauntless Russians must, before the last
stage of the drive to the border begins:
(1) Clear two-thirds of the perimeter of
Leningrad of the enemy and release the
northern section of the Moscow-Leningrad
railway from the enemy clutch.
(2) Break-through from Poltava or some
other point to the Black Sea—the straight-
line distance is about 250 miles, with the
Dnieper across the route.
(3) Drive the enemy out of the Crimea.
(4) Break-through, from north and south,
the great army of Germans along the Minsk-
Moscow railway which now hangs men-
acingly over all the advancing Russian
armies in the Ukraine, and which, if the
Russians cannot crush it, might be made
strong enough to crush them against the
anvil of occupation along the Black Sea
coast, or push southward behind them to
the cash
Washington on Feb. 21 officially gave
U.S. armed forces’ total casualties for
14 months of war as 10,150 killed, 10,959
wounded, 44,181 missing and 90 interned
in neutral countries.
* * ♦ ♦
Mr. Alexander, First Lord of the
Admiralty, said on Feb. 20 that in five
months of Mediterranean warfare to
Jan. 31 British subs,, surface ships and
aircraft and U.S. aircraft had destroyed
136 enemy supply ships of 338,000 tons,
damaged seriously 44 ships of 169,000
tons, and less seriously 68 ships of 119,000
tons. This had represented a loss to the
enemy of “hundreds of thousands of tons
of tanks, guns, ammunition and stores
and considerable numbers of troops.”
* * * *
The U.S. Navy reports the loss of its
largest submarine, Argonaut, 2710-4080
tons, 381 ft. long, two 6in. guns and six
21 in, tubes.
* * * *
Two daring little N.Z. naval ships have
sunk a Jap sub. One N.Z. rating died
of wounds, one was dangerously wounded
and two seriously wounded. Admiral
King, C.-in-C. of the U.S. Fleets, cabled
his congratulations.
* * * *
Advance patrols are now feeling out
the enemy’s positions along what must
be the main line of advance for Wavell’s
Indian armies into Burma. Bombing of
objectives from the vantage points gained
by General Irwin’s army n.-w. of Akyab
continues as a daily routine, Australians,
British and U.S. squadrons sharing.
* * * *
The R.A.F.’s record over German-held
territory in February includes the blow-
ing-up of vast U-boat ammunition
dumps at Wilhelmshafen, a coveted
target which provided probably the big-
gest explosion this war has seen —150
acres of the Mariansiel depot went up
at once. The U-boat base at Lorient, on
the French coast, was gutted with 1000
tons of bombs. Milan was visited by the
R.A.A.F. Lancaster Squadron. Ten
enemy fighters were shot down by an
international fighter escort over Dunkirk
on Feb. 15—seven of them, apart from
two damaged, by a Norwegian fighter
wing led by Maoriland Wing-Com-
mander P. G. Jameson.


As a long satisfying drink, a liqueur, or as a base of your
favorite cocktail.
CLAYTON'S
*KOIA TONIC
Product of CLAYTON BROS., London.
Agents: Gollin & Co. Pty., Ltd., Sydney.
Divorce Notice*.
IN
THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES— In Divorce.
TO FRANCIS JAMES HOGAN late of Leeto-
—TAKE NOTICE that HILOA VIOU
HOGAN has filed a Petition for Divprce
1717 of 1942 on the ground of desertion
out just cause or excuse for three years a
upwards If you wish to defend yo street
an appearance at the Divorce Office K S
Uy.\irC D K S °^X'^
Divorce,
SPORTING NOTIONS
(Conducted by "PILOT")
Zonda, runner-up to High Caste in
the Futurity Stakes of 1941, and second
to Burrabil last year, justified her favorit-
ism for the corresponding race at Flem-
ington on Saturday. Well placed through-
out, she finished gamely to win from
Sun Valley and the outsider Art Union.
It had been intended to retire Zonda to
the stud last season, but a change of plans
has meant £2OOO in stakes for a win and
a second in two races following an
absence of about 10 months. Saturday’s
success was her first since March, 1941,
but apparently she is right back to the
form that enabled her to win the Oak-
leigh Plate, among other races, that
autumn. A very thick-set but not tall
six-year-old by Manitoba from Mistral,
she is trained by L. Robertson for G. R.
Nicholas.
Sun Valley, beaten a length and a
quarter, probably would have made the
finish more interesting had he not been
disappointed in going for an opening at
the turn. Art Union momentarily looked
like causing a surprise when he dashed
past the pacemaker, Burberry, at the top
of the straight; but Zonda and Sun Val-
ley were too solid for him at the finish.
Burberry, backed down to 9 to 2, failed
at the business end, but the Oakleigh
Plate winner Millais was unlucky in
having to change his course as a result
of interference near the half-mile. His
fourth was a fair performance. Tran-
quil Star (sixth) ran well, but was
anchored by 10.4 at the finish.
Solstar paid an all-time Australian
record tote dividend of £696 os. 6d. for 55.,
odds of 2783 to 1, when he defeated two
other outsiders, Christopher Wren and
Salrina, each at 50 to 1, in the Stanley
Plate. He was a nominal 100 to 1 with
bookmakers, but only 11 tickets at ss.
each were issued for him in a win pool
totalling 34,028 tickets. For a place he
paid £5B ss. for ss. Neither of the part-
owners nor the trainer of the gelding par-
ticipated in the record dividend. Solstar
had raced only twice previously, and was
ridden on Saturday by an apprentice,
W, Caldow, having only his fourth ride
in a race. He had shown promise, how-
ever, and his trainer, A. R. Sinclair, said
after the race that an injury sustained
on Wednesday prevented the stable from
throwing in for a nice win.
Prior to Saturday the record Austra-
lian tote dividend stood to the credit of
D.0.D., who returned £836 16s. for £1
at Morphettville (S.A.) in 1881. At Hay-
dock Park (Eng.) in 1929 Coole returned
odds of 3400 to 1 after winning a hurdle
race.
Millie’s Hope, who had been out of
the winning list for over two years, re-
turned to form with a 20-to-l success in
the first Woodcliff Handicap. He carried
8.6, as compared with the 9.2 allotted
him in the last Caulfield Cup, and won
easily from Moonray and Taramoa. Aged
eight, Millie’s Hope is not an easy horse
to train, but has much more than paid
his way in Brisbane and Melbourne. He
was not nominated for the Australian
Cup, but, with comparatively few good
stayers and middle-distance horses about,
should win again shortly. Velocity
showed up well in fourth position, but
Sangallo, favorite at 5 to 2, faded to-
wards the finish.
Veiled Promise compensated for his
costly defeat a week earlier by decisively
defeating Sir Romeo and Throttle in the
second Woodcliff Handicap. Ballycum-
mins showed improvement in fourth posi-
tion, and, provided he stands, should pay
his way this autumn, Sirius, a two-year-
old brother to the Oaks winner East
End, and raced in the same interests,
battled on gamely to beat Gold Mohur
and The Vanquisher in the Alma Stakes.
Last-named, who started favorite, pre-
judiced his chance by veering out to-
wards the finish. Lemact, a three-year-
old filly by Actor from Lemway, out-
stayed Barncluith and Azores in the St.
Clair Trial. Lilette and Law Student,
starting from Nos. 28 and 29 respectively,
head-heated for first in the Hawksburn
Handicap, run up the straight six.
$ He * *
Ascot lost nothing by having to hold
its meeting at Rosehill on Saturday. A
tote turnover of nearly £37,000 gives an
idea of the attendance. With only one
favorite successful, and close finishes for
four races, handicapper W. J. Frank had
reason to be pleased with his work.
There was little between Mannerheim,
John Halifax and Milanja (Gollogly) a
furlong from home in the Flying Han-
dicap, but the last-named, who was a
long way back when the field settled
down, finished slightly better than the
other two and won by a neck from John
Halifax, who is working up to a mark
from which it will be difficult for him to
win. Walkalong, in fourth place, ran
well enough to put him in line for a win
over a longer distance than six furlongs.
High Flight tired after showing his cus-
tomary dash, and Young Valais also
weakened after making a sharp run at
the leger. Irish Sea was never in a
position that gave him a winning chance.
Eureka ran fairly in a couple of races
at Randwick recently, but not well
enough to justify his strong favoritism
for the Ascot Handicap. He did not im-
prove upon his previous form, and after
Angus and Mortine had shared the lead
from the six to the three furlongs, and
Gauntlet had looked a winner halfway
down the straight, Colonel Post never
further back than fifth—scored by a head.
Gauntlet again tired, and Mortine cut
him out of second money. Salivant is
likely to be heard from again before
long, while Widden seems to have tem-
porarily had enough. Fifth or sixth half
a mile from home he merely plodded
along. Bought in Maoriland by F. W.
Hughes and W. A. Freeman (the latter
has taken over his partner’s share on
lease), General Post is by Posterity from
Curtain (Thespian-Cowl), a three-quarter
sister to Veil, dam of Veilmond,
Mayfowl’s second to Flight at Rand-
wick pointed to him as the probable win-
ner of the Maiden Two-year-old Handi-
cap. McMenamin quickly had Mayfowl
in front, and, though Joygiver (a Nuffield
colt) hung on to him until nearing the
turn, where Miss Teresa, Warlock and
Active Service headed the remainder,
Mayfowl ran away from his opponents
in the straight. The minor places were
filled by Joygiver and Warlock, and,
though Air Lord was fourth, his showing
was not as impressive as that of Satire
(by Harinero). Mayfowl is a well-grown
brother to Beau Port, and after being
passed in at last season’s yearling sales
at Randwick was bought privately on
behalf of the Indian owner-trainer J.
Higgins. M. Webster trains him.
A furlong from home in the Mascot
Handicap Miss Pentheus, Magi and
Usher (J, Thompson) were almost in
line, and it was by only a head the last-
named defeated Miss Penthcus. Magi
weakened at the end. Tyrannus made up
leeway from the turn to finish fourth,
and Romero again failed as a weight-
carrier. War Spear, who has not done
anything of account since he promised
well as a two-year-old, made a sufficiently
good showing to suggest he is worth
keeping in mind.
The style in which Marquis (Duncan)
won the Novice Handicap indicated that
he will pay his way in better company.
He and Blue Cap ma.de the early running,
with Frustrate, Edigram and Kookaburra
nearest them. Marquis was first into the
straight and was not after in danger of
defeat, though Edigram and Monaro ran
on fairly. The Gambler and Gryphon
were again disappointing, and Ginger
Lass did better than most of the unplaced
lot. Marquis is a three-year-old brother
to Veiled Prophet (Veilmond-Highness),
a Melbourne winner. Miss Leonard fell
early in the race, and her rider, P.
O’Donnell, a promising apprentice, was
so badly injured that he died shortly
after being removed to the Parramatta
Hospital. Turmoil, Cedric Major and
Kendal also came down.
Davinia (Knox) had not raced for
several months, but in the Three-year-old
Handicap she was too good for the sup-
posed certainty, Boorchief. Ack Emma
was the early leader, but, taking charge
half a mile from home, Davinia was a
winner from the time she led into the
straight, Boorchief being unable to make
any impression on her over the last fur-
long. His race of the previous week evi-
dently did not improve Boorchief. Behind
the place-getters Royal Salute (by Royal
Sun) did best. Head Chief again showed
pace, but is an indifferent stayer.
Response (Howard), who had not raced
for seven months, was always well placed
in the Botany Welter, and at the finish
was a trifle too good for Glendower, for
whom no excuse was possible this time.
Linemond, after being prominent
throughout, tired slightly at the end,
finishing third, followed by Tel Asur,
whose chance was not a winning one
after entering the straight. Merton was
the early leader, and Mary Lou did well
to the turn, as did Article, who is com-
ing on again.
* * * •
The unfortunate accident in the Novice
Handicap at Rosehill caused it to be
contended that a field of 22 was too
big, but the same complaint was not made
about the previous race, the Maiden
Two-year-old Handicap, for which there
was a similar number of runners and
comparatively few of those had pre-
viously started in a race. Even in small
fields accidents cannot be avoided. A
horse can fall without meeting with inter-
ference from any other runner. Rosehill,
by the way, has a record for the largest
field that has ever started in New South
Wales —43, in the 1897 Rosehill Cup, six
furlongs, won by a gelding named Kelso.
* * * ♦
Zonda (first) and Art Union (third)
were two of the nine late entrants that
ran in the Caulfield Futurity Stakes, It
cost £3O each to start, but their respective
trainers had reason to be satisfied with
their judgment that they were worth it.
The total value of the race was £2500.
# * * *
Rosehill is distributing £2600 added
money at its meeting on March 27. One
of the attractions will be the £650 w.f.a.
race, the Rawson Stakes, at nine fur-
longs. Starters may include Yaralla,
Main Topic, Hall Stand and Riverton.
Success in this will not affect any
horse’s Doncaster or Sydney Cup
weight, as handicaps for those will be
issued on March 22.
♦ ♦ • # *
Even when conditions permit, two
races in an afternoon are unusual for
any horse at a metropolitan meeting,
though the distance of either may not be
beyond a mile.' However, at Newcastle
on Saturday, the owner of Puchong
found it pay to depart from the usual
order of things. That horse won the
first race of the day' and, with slb.
penalty, the last. One race was at six
and the other at seven furlongs, and
Puchong’s starting price for each was 6
to 1. He was bred at Kia-Ora, and is
by Piccadilly from Morbury, a Chief
Ruler mare.
In connection with two races in a day
old-timers will recall that Loch Marie
(8.11) won the 1898 Carrington Stakes,
beating 37 other runners, and, with only
one race intervening, won a six-furlongs
welter handicap, in which, ridden by W.
Kelso, she carried 11.9. She was favorite
for each race.
* * * ♦
W. Inglis and Son have catalogued
331 yearlings for their coming sales at
Randwick, against 300 last year. As
usual, P. Miller (Kia-Ora) is the principal
contributor, while from Queensland the
Lyndhurst Stud is sending 11, W. J.
Lloyd seven and the estate of the late
T. Jennings six. Imported sires repre-
sented for the first time will be Le Grand
Due, Golden Sovereign and Coronation
Day. Some of the first of Gold Rod’s
progeny will also be offered. The ban
on transport of horses from other States
may cause the Queensland lots to be
absentees, but there is still a possibility
of that difficulty being overcome. It is
to be hoped so, as, alter all, the transport
of a few yearlings either to or from
Sydney is unlikely to affect the war
effort adversely.
* * * *
Yearling buyers, as a rule, naturally
give preference to the progeny of young
or comparatively young mares. How-
ever, it is not quite unusual for a fairly
old mare to throw something that de-
velops into a high-class racehorse. For
instance, it is possible that before the
close of the season West Point may prove
himself the best of his age racing in Syd-
ney, and his dam, Herowinkie, was 16
when he was foaled. Her well-known
son Hall Mark was thrown when she
was six.
Clarion Call and Ajixa were respec-
tively from 15-year-old mares—High Ho
and Lady Canberra—and Queen Balak
was 12 when Haddon Hall made his
appearance, while Bower Belle was 13
when she foaled the Breeders’ Plate
winner Moorland. It was at the same
age Taiaroa produced Knight Falcon. The
ages of other mares when they threw
two-year-old Sydney winners of this
season were: Lambent (Flight) 13, Cor-
nelia (Craglia) 10, Calculate (St. Quen-
tin) eight. Burnt Apple (Belle Pomme),
Gneiss (War Eagle) and Only Blue
(Royal Peer) seven each.
* * * *
Any man who wishes to retain race-
course friendships should, so far as pos-
sible, refrain from dispensing informa-
tion regarding possible winners. He
may be successful in as many as three
or four races, but he will find that, as a
rule, those wins will be outweighed by
a beaten runner. He is likely to be told;
“Well, I fancied So-and-so [the winner],
but stood off when you said you did not
like him.” Trainers are among those
who cannot always avoid passing along
possible winners to social lights (women
as well as men), and that, in the case
of non-success, will probably cause them
to be classed as “bad judges.” Natu-
rally, some trainers resent being asked
about what is really their employers’
business, and, while they cannot afford
to be impolite, they would often like to
make a fitting reply to questioners who
would scarcely think them worth a nod
of recognition away from a racecourse,
* * * *
W. J. Winterbottom still owns Maikai,
but he will ip future be raced on lease
by G. L. Scott. According to present
intentions he is to have another try for
the Australian Cup, in which he ran no-
where last year with 9.6, but, rising 10,
the odds are against his doing better
than his two seconds in Melbourne Cups
and a similar placing in a Caulfield Cup.
* * * *
New York meetings—including Sara-
toga —from April 8 to Nov. 5 of this
year will total 180 days. Of these 42
go to Belmont Park, New York’s prin-
cipal track. Prize-money will be on the
usual liberal lines.
George Elliott and Jimmy Dundee are
among the regulars at Leichhardt. Some
of the people who saw their show on
Thursday didn’t like the look of it, and
signified their displeasure in the usual
manner. Both were down more than
once, and Elliott, though the leader on
points, looked settled in the ninth. He
recovered magically, and the pugs stood
toe-to-toe, jabbing away, for almost a
minute. Dundee received a very doubt-
ful decision.
It’s a long time since Australia had a
good heavyweight. Billy Britt, alleged to
be champion, was given a boxing lesson
by Jack McNamee at Sydney Stadium-
and Mac is an undistinguished middle-
weight. Britt was down in the first
round, and in the fifth his left eye was
closed for the night. He lasted till tne
eighth.
FOR ROSEBERY
(At Rosehill.)
(Before acceptances .)
By "PILOT.”
Nursery Handicap: Denton, 1;
Warlock, 2 ; Satire, 3.
Maiden Handicap: Dinkum
Aussie, 1 ; Etching, 2; Ridere or
Cape Hero, 3.
Cape Solander Handicap; Modu-
lation, 1 ; Ayarpee, 2; Davinia, 3.
Encourage Handicap: Marquis,
1 ; Monaro, 2; Ginger Lass, 3.
Flying Handicap: Mannerheim,
1 ; Miss Pentheus, 2; Milanja, 3.
Rosebery Handicap: Salivant, 1 ;
Colonel Post, 2; Cadger, 3.
Kingston Handicap: Mortine, 1;
Response, 2 ; Linemond, 3.


Women's Letters
From Sydney
The soldier son of a soldier father,
Major the Honorable Alexander Har-
dinge Patrick Hore-Ruthven, only child
of the Governor-General and Lady Gow-
rie, has died from war wounds in an
Italian hospital in Libya. The news cast
a gloom over every gathering of women
in Sydney last week, for in all the move-
ments of which she is president or patron
Lady Gowrie is regarded with deep
affection. Probably those sympathising
with her the most deeply are the mothers
not only of this State but throughout
Australia whose sons have also laid down
youth and life in the cause of freedom.
Major Hore-Ruthven was just 29. He
leaves a widow and two children, the
elder a son aged three. His widow was
Pamela Fletcher, a daughter of the
Reverend A. H. Fletcher, of London.
Denis Allen married his Philippa
Stephen in St. Mark’s at Darling Point
last Saturday morning. Each comes
from one of Sydney’s old families, and
between them their interests touch on
almost every phase of the city’s life:
art, skating, racing among them. His
parents were the Arthur Allens, of Meri-
oola, Edgecliff, and he is one of the well-
known law firm of Allen, Allen and
Hemsley. Her father was knight Colin
Stephen, of legal and A.J.C. eminence.
The wedding frock of pale pink lace and
a blithe little hat of mauve tonings suited
the bride’s fair complexion. Water-lilies
were her flowers. Her two small nieces,
Martha and Caroline Rutledge, were the
bridesmaids, all green muslin frocks and
dainty posies. Cousin Dundas Allen was
the best man. Reception was at the
Bellevue home of Miss Barbara Knox.
It was speech day at the first meeting
of the women’s committee of the sym-
phony orchestral concerts last Friday.
A.B.C. chairman Cleary spoke, Bernard
Heinze spoke, then members in the front
row of the assemblage held the floor for
five minutes or so. General agreement
was that the concerts were as necessary
to the life of the city as a whole alpha-
bet of vitamins. But even the most de-
vout votaries of music sometimes forget
the good fare this city has had apart
from the A.B.C. Mrs. Harold Bott, who,
as Marie Browne, had sung in two per-
formances of Mozart’s “Requiem,” was
able to smooth away, very gently, the
idea that this work had never been given
to Sydney audiences.
It was a splendid meeting, full of
vigor from the moment Mayoress Bartley
opened it. Handed over to Lady Wake-
hurst, who presided, it gathered even
greater momentum, the Governor’s wife
just being a chairwoman by instinct. The
grand decision reached was that a series
of eight symphony concerts, plus three
for patriotic causes, should be given dur-
ing the season. This was the first time
an A.B.C. meeting had been held in the
Mayoress’s rooms, and no fewer than
100 answered the roll-call. The Alex-
ander Gordon lady, Mrs. Hubert Fair-
fax, Mrs, Swinson, Mrs. Robert Dixson
and Mrs. Hope Gibson were in their
appointed places. Mrs. Charley Lloyd
Jones was there; so was Mrs. Bertie
Kelly, who put in a request that one of
the patriotic concerts might benefit her
R.A.A.F. Central Area Comforts Fund.
Rain spoiled the out-of-door attend-
ance at the third Beethoven concert, but
indoors the Conservatorium held a
bumper audience charged with the elec-
tricity of enthusiasm and the conscious-
ness of musicianly worth. Bernard
Heinze conducted his orchestra with sure
touch along ways both grave and gay.
Eileen Ralph was pianist in the G Major
Concerto, The Westralian, who has spent
much of her time in England, is a talented
player. She was, too, an attractive stage
decoration, her black velvet frock throw-
ing her bright red-gold hair into relief.
She and her husband, Thomas Matthews,
having decided to stay in Australia for
some time, have joined the staff of the
Conservatorium, as have several other
musicians from overseas.
One million books and nothing less
will satisfy the Camp Library Service’s
ever-increasing appetite. Last time the
Service made an appeal it asked for
a quarter of a million. The hunt is up
from March 5 to March 11, and that
must be self-denial week to the book-
hoarder. The entertaining novel, the book
that made the reader laugh, the mystery
story that made his spine curl, must be
handed over to the C.L.S. at the Public
Library. The books go to men and women
of the services. There’s no dropping into
the bookseller’s or a well-stocked library
for the soldier in New Guinea.
From the bridegroom to the padre all
the men in the wedding group when Cor-
poral Jim Kearns, R.A.A.F., married his
Marie Pither were in the air service.
Marie, only daughter of the L. Pithers,
of Katoomba, had Lette Kearns and
Marie Brennan to ’maid her. To match
her old-world ivory satin taffeta the
attendants wore pale blue marquisette
frocks of the same period. Best man was
Pilot-Officer Don Griffiths; groomsman,
Flying-Officer Danny Sheehy. Father
Kerr, ranking as flight-lieutenant, blessed
the dual control. Corporal Jim’s parents
are Mr. and Mrs. P. Kearns, of Chats-
wood. Father is a commissioner of the
Rural Bank.
In a large private hospital in Sydney,
to vary the monotony of the sickroom, a
change of color scheme (bedspread,
cushion covers and so on) is offered
weekly to the patients. One of the
nurses says that unofficial research has
revealed to her that elderly ladies prefer
mauve, youngish women pink or pale
blue, and men green. Maybe to a
Freudian that will convey some inner
meaning.
Maryborough’s Gertrude Concannon
and A.C.I John Degnian, R.A.A.F.,
are being married today in St.
Mary’s to a choral accompaniment.
The singers are Gertrude’s pupils,
and the bride has rehearsed them
for some time. Gertrude’s snood of
dark hair will be filmed in tulle and
Limerick lace. Her frock is of gleaming
silver. Sister Josephine’s frock is of dove-
grey flushed with pink. While this page
is being read the wedding feast is under
way at Sargent’s in Market-street. Here,
again, Gertrude’s pupils are raising their
voices in song. The wedding is the
rounding off of a real Maryborough
romance. Photograph from Peter Pan.
Hawkesbury Agricultural College wel-
comed the first group of trainees in the
duties of Women’s Land Army matrons
last Monday. There are about 20 in
this first company, and as they qualify
others will take their place in the classes.
One block of the college has been given
over to this W.L.A. work. The course
includes dietetics, physical training,
leadership, canteen cookery, home nurs-
ing and all things deemed essential to
the smooth running of a hostel and the
welfare of the girls in each matron’s care.
Sydney’s Mayoress, Mrs. Bartley, was
whisked around on a comprehensive tohr
of the association’s activities by C.W.A.
president Mrs. Jack Garry one after-
noon last week. First the two lunched
together; then they paid a visit to the
C.W.A. Netting and Weaving Centre m
The Bulletin building. Here she saw
in detail the evolution of knitting yarns
and wool from the fleece. A visit to the
sheepskin-vest makers provided another
interest. The Sheepskin Vest Committee,
incidentally, is now also making leather
vests, which are said to be just as weather-
resisting as the original sheepskin and
less bulky. Altogether last year the
patriotic sheepskin, in the hands of these
workers, gave itself to the fashioning of
over 11,000 articles.
A few months ago the grandmothers
of the State were competing against one
another in the popularity stakes in the
cause of patriotism. Now the Red Cross
has turned its attention to the cradle,
and baby will become a money-spinner
for the society’s general funds. The
baby competition is being run as an aid
to Red Cross Day, June 18. President
of the Day’s committee, Mrs. Pentold
Hyland, outlined the plan at a meeting
in the Pickwick Club last week. Baby's
dimples are expected to garner as many,
if not more, thousands for the cause as
did the recent Miss Red Cross contest.
Nominations must be in by March 12.
Minister for N.E.S. Heffron has sent
out an appeal for more women ambu-
lance drivers. The need for these is
urgent. Age limit is from 21 to 45 and
volunteers must hold drivers’ licenses.
The women drivers will be groomed in
first aid and a course in mechanics. The
new classes will start early in March.
It is pointed out that when the training is
complete the work will take up only one
night a week.
From Melbourne
Feminine thoughts are very much on
coupons these days as thoughts of winter
intrude. Women who have a surfeit of
beachy clothes now will be feeling blue
long before June and the new ration
books come along. The appearance of the
vivid splashes of color of the autumn
crocus in florists’ windows is a reminder
(that comes with something of a shock)
that the plant world thinks autumn is just
around the corner. The big puzzle seems
to be whether a coat or a suit will fill
the bill best, as a woman cannot very
easily have both. There is also great
argument on the question of which colors
tire one quickest —the gay or the drab.
English fashion stylists are saying that it
is the bright splashes of reds and yellows
and multi-woven checks which, psycholo-
gically, wear best.
The gift of a real “bowl” (after the
Hollywood fashion) for the musicians to
play in when outdoor concerts are given
in Melbourne’s tempestuous weather has,
so enthusiasts hope, solved the problem
of how to continue the musical life of
Melb.-out-of-doors. Exasperating as is
the weather, it would be more bearable
were the musicians and their instruments
protected from harm. Concertgoers can
flee to the snug indoors or stay away, but
the musicians taking part in one of Mel-
bourne’s outdoor experiments (or chal-
lenges to heaven) must stay when rain-
drops appear, and try to pretend that
their beloved violins aren’t being ruined
for life or the ’cellos as full of water as
cisterns. It seems likely that the bowl
will be placed in the Domain, where the
natural depression in which some out-
door concerts have taken place is situated.
The Sidney Myer Trust is putting its
hand in its pocket.
The Locker Fund, Air Force branch
of the Comforts Fund, will bring the
Wild and Woolly West to Wirth’s Circus
enclosure with its Rodeo and Gala Night
on Tuesday, March 2. The committee
hopes to persuade some Allied soldiers
with a real cowboy background to take
part, and the Air Force Band will add
gaiety. Steer-riding and buckjumping
will, of course, be special features. More
fund-raising is in view when the National
Theatre puts on “Rookery Nook” for
the Locker Fund in April. Picture is of
Mrs. O. R. Charlton, president of Locker
Fund. With Mrs. Bell, she is helping
on the special committee for the rodeo,
in addition to her presidential duties.
Mrs. John McEwen and Mrs. John
McCauley will be in charge of “Rookery
Nook” arrangements, and the theatrical
side will be in Gertrude Johnston’s
hands.
The clarifying of ideas on war work
for women makes progress, and not too
soon. A suggestion made by director
Harold Elvins at the opening of the Mel-
bourne Con. was that girls with voices or
other musical talent should do some war
work at the Con. so that their artistic
value to the community need not be en-
tirely lost. Another idea which has had
support is to form groups of older women
in various suburbs to work in munition
factories, all travelling together, to solve
the transport problem. A still further idea
is to make a “women-over-age” army
with leaders who will co-ordinate efforts,
and, as it were, hire sections out to the
various services and institutions wanting
supplementary staffs. Hospitals are listen-
ing to this last idea with rising hope, for
they need help badly.
If the Federal Government really
wants to make money it should ask co-
operation from the women who arranged
the stalls and sideshows connected with
the Gladys Moncrieff Gala Matinee last
week. Notable among these workers was
Mrs. Sophie Graves, who, with the Will-
ing Workers, ran the lucky envelopes, and
guessed right the very first time that the
public which didn’t go to the matinee
would nevertheless like to see what was
about to go on, and would put its head
round the corner while doing its Thurs-
day morning shopping. So she, with Mrs.
Wallace Mitchell, convener of the Ladies’
Committee, was on the go from 9 a.m.
at her stall at His Majesty’s, and lucky
envelopes sold like penny lolly sticks.
So, too, when a lovely spaniel was
handed to Mrs. Graves to do what she
liked with, she sensed at once that he
would Dutch auction well. His appear-
ance roused the instinct of possession in
nearly every bosom at the foyer auction,
with the result that his earnings were £69
before Eric Welch knocked him down to
the partially-blinded Lieut. Ron Eggleston,
who had been raising the bids steadily by
florins from the word go. The takings
at the matinee were beyond all expec-
tation. Money just flew through the air,
and women with big wads in their hands
peeled off a note every time the auction
urged them to “give it another go.”
Country centres are noted for their
ability to raise money in patriotic causes.
Maffra, the sugar town of Gippsland,
welcomed the Consul for China and Mrs.
Wang to its most recent fund-raising
effort, a Paddy’s Marked at which £250
was raised for the Chinese Relief and
Prisoners of War Funds. Residents were
glad to meet the Consul and hear about
China’s epic struggle. Much of the suc-
cess of the market was due to the organ-
ising ability of Mrs. L. H. Jackson, who
has been the brains of many of the town’s
patriotic efforts, and has raised £3OOO
already for patriotic causes in Maffra.
Lucky at last, the Lawn Tennis Asso-
ciation’s committee had the pleasure of
sitting in the seats of the mighty at Koo-
yong on Saturday watching the crowd
enjoy a brass band from overseas and
enjoying still more its compere, Captain
Busiloff, whose sallies caught the fancy
of the audience so that when he sug-
gested a get-together to clap in the right
places in “Texas” there was hardly a
non-working hand in the galleries. So
overpowered was the association with
the success that it has taken heart and
decided on another concert on a Sunday
afternoon soon. Why the moonlight
nights don’t suggest themselves as the best
time is still a dark secret. The Allied
bandsmen played well, and their show-
manship was superb.
Hearing a composer of international
reputation play his own compositions was
a pleasure which fell to the lot of those
who went to hear Father Joseph Muset’s
recital on St. Patrick’s Cathedral organ.
Time was five to six, an hour most people
can spare even in these busy days, and a
good time for music. Father Muset’s
aim is to take organ music out of the
rut into which it has dropped since its
popularity waned beside that of the or-
chestra. For this purpose he has gone back
to modes older than the modern diatonic
scales, and his harmonies have an un-
familiar ring to the ear accustomed to
secular classics. In the group played was
“Rose Mystica,” composed in what might
be called “topographical” style, imitat-
ing in music the steep crags of Mont-
serrat, where the composer spent som.?
time.
The death of Mrs. Annie Chirnside,
widow of George Chirnside, brought back
to the older generation memories of the
regal scale on which she entertained in
the closing decades of the last century.
She brought to Victoria the atmosphere
of England in its most spacious days,
with liveried footman and immense
house-parties and a talent for dress which
marked her out in a particularly badly-
dressed era. Her hunting parties are per-
haps best remembered.
A birthday cake two feet in diameter
crowned with one golden candle marked
the first birthday of the U.S. Women’s
Auxiliary Corps (U.S.W.A.C. for short)
at a small party which followed the elec-
tion of new office-bearers at Mrs. Earle
Dickover’s delightful South Yarra flat.
Members of the corps staff the American
Services Club, and have a heavy job to
do and long hours to face keeping sol-
diers cheerful with a spot of home atmo-
sphere, in which American cooking plays
a big part. The good work the corps is
doing hasn’t gone unheeded in Washing-
ton, and an appreciative message from
Mrs. Roosevelt is among the year's
memories. Friends were congratulatory
about the new uniform hat, a pale blue
version of the miner’s peaked cap. Mrs.
Earle Dickover, wife of the Consul-
General, was heartily acclaimed presi-
dent for the new year, making her second
year of office.


200 BABIES GO WITHOUT
DUNLOP RUBBER KNICKERS
v*3/
/ N
TO HELP SAVE THIS
AIRMANS LIFE
Many a mother has sighed for the day
when those useful Dunlop rubber
knickers will again be available but
all of them appreciate that Dunlop
must make these triangular life-saving
rubber boats for the R.A.A.F. instead.
2 MORE REASONS WHY THERE IS A SHORTAGE
OF CIVILIAN RUBBER ARTICLES
2 Dunlop Men’s Raincoats = 1 R.A.A.F. Flying Suit
1 pair Dunlop Sports Shoes = 16 covers for Mortar bombs
DUNLOP
BUBBEB AUSTBALIA LIMITED
★
YOUR SCRAP RUBBER—HOWEVER SMALL —IS VITAL
TO VICTORY. Urgently needed war supplies can be made
from practically anything made of rubber from Tobacco
Pouches to Tractor Tyres they are all needed urgently. Collect
them and keep ready for the official collector.
HB7BB
SMOKE-OH!
V T
“Races flourish in Paris.”— -Cable item.
Not the non-Aryan, surely.
4* ■ 4* 4*
“Wanted, board and lodging for father and
son, by school.” — "Great Northern,” Sydney.
An evening continuation school, appar-
ently.
“A microbe recently discovered possesses
the faculty of being able to split itself in two.”
—Science radio talk.
Perhaps someone in its hearing ex-
pressed the hope that oranges would be
no dearer now that Government has con-
trol of the crop.
*!• 4* *l*
“Abandon those aching feet. Consult Miss
.”— Advt.
Who presumably will consult the stars
to determine the most propitious moment
for the severance.
•j»
The Champion.
“Australia has 37 species of parrots.”
— "World’s News.”
The visitor to Hogan’s place found par-
rots there galore. Some birds were
cracking doubtful jokes ; others cracked
corn and swore. But, standing on the
back verandah looking at the yard, the
guest was simply staggered as the air
around was jarred with endless talk,
complaints and croakings from an un-
seen bird. The guest cried “Ah! That
parrot is the best I’ve ever heard.’’
The friend just sighed and whispered
“Yes. That parrot spoils my life. Her
talking beats the lot of ’em. That’s
Clara. She’s the wife.”
O’Hell.
*l* *s^
“Demand by Onions. Holiday Break at
Easter.” — Tas. "Mercury.”
Wouldn’t that make anyone weep?
»T«
“It is estimated that 2796 languages are
spoken throughout the world today.”
— "World’s News. 1
Australian visitors to King’s Cross con-
sider this an understatement.
4- 4* 4* 4*
“Mr. Curtin has his limits,” says an Opposi-
tion M.H.R.
After the militia handout, we should
say so.
»£• ,J« q.
“Old Mr. Dimwood looked aghast as Gerald
outlined his predictions of future transport.
‘But I don’t think I’d like air travel,’ he said.
‘As for piloting my own ’plane at SOOrn.p.h.
—why, it’s the last thing in the world I’d do.
—Short story.
Very likely.
“Snakes make fine pets; they are quite
harmless if approached in the right spirit.”
— Reptile-lover’s assurance.
The Pot and the Kettle.
“A Russian brown bear has appeared before
a Chicago Judge charged with having been
drunk and disorderly.”— "Daily Telegraph.”
The epithet, though it be meet
For one with giggle-juice replete.
Would not, I think, cause any smart
Of shame to stab the ursine heart.
’Twould be of calumnies the least
To dub a bear in liquor “Beast!”
For beasts, it’s likely, have their pride,
And therefore if you would deride
A bear that had unwisely wined,
It would be difficult to find
A term of censure apter than
To say he acted like a man.
P. M. L.
I, too, have found that snakes won't bite
If you approach them in the right
And proper spirit —when they are
Well pickled in it, in a jar.
BRIAN BUREAU.
A Sad Case.
“In some populous suburbs taxi-drivers are so
overworked they scarcely have time to think.”
—Correspondent in Sydney daily.
I had an inkling that all was not well
with the driver as I stepped into his cab,
for when I shut the door after me he
didn’t lean back over the seat, reopen
it and slam it shut again with a terrific
bang.
When he failed to inquire whether he
could get me a swag of beer at two
quid a dozen my fears for his well-
being were confirmed. If I needed more,
I got it when he took the road straight
past the post office and the School
of Arts. That was extremely odd, when
he could have gone via the railway bridge
and spun the journey out another three-
quarters of a mile.
But it was the final act which brought
home to me strongly the awful pass to
which the overworked taxi-driver has
been brought. Pulling up at my destina-
tion he glanced at the meter, muttered
“Five-an’-nine —here, keep the change!”
and, pressing three two-bobs into my
hand, whizzed off.
Yes, it’s very sad.
Bo.
Service Department.
Information Sought.
(1) Name of the science of growing plants
without soil? (2) Chemicals and proportions
required ?
(1) Hydroponics. (2) The following solution
has been found satisfactory. Mixed in order
given, amounts are enough for 25 gallons ol
solution: Ammonium phosphate (monobasic)
joz., potassium nitrate 2%0z., calcium nitrate
Ijoz., magnesium sulphate (Epsom salts) Uoz.
Small cockroaches have infested my plant-
houses. How can 1 get rid of them ?
Baits of phosphorus mixed with flour or of
arsenate of lead mixed with honey, treacle or
oatmeal will get rid of them. Where they have
settled under uprights spray the wood with kero-
sene, covering plants during treatment.
(1) Winners of Australian eight-oar cham-
pionships? (2) Women’s four-oar champion-
ships since 1930 ?
(1) 1930. Victoria; 1931, no contest; 1932,
Victoria; 1933, 1934, 1935, 1936, N.S.W.; 1937,
S. Australia; 1938, Westralia; 1939, Queens-
land; no races were held in 1940-41-42. (2)
1930, 1931 and 1932, N.S.W.; 1933, Victoria;
1934 and 1935, N.S.W.; 1936, Victoria; 1937,
Tasmania; 1938, England; 1939, Victoria; 1940,
Tasmania; 1941, Victoria; 1942, no race.
How many limes did Henneberry and
Richards fight each other, and results ?
They fought 10 times. Richards won six of
these contests —five on fouls and one on a
technical knockout. Henneberry twice out-
pointed Richards, and stopped him once. Their
first contest, in 1933, was a 12-round draw.
Brief Answers.
N.S.G.: If you make an appointment with
the Curator, Technological Museum, Harris
Street, Ultimo, he will give you the details
you require... .K.H.; Positions held by 244 per-
sons M.E.: Cuba has an area of 44,164
sq. miles and is approximately 755 miles long.
. ...A.D.C.: Cooper polled 221,168 votes....
P.K.: F. Kitson, secretary, Musicians’ Union,
122 Castlereagh-street, Sydney, may recommend
a composer... .A.S.: Phar Lap was a chestnut
(Night Raid-Entreaty), owned by H. R. Telford.
K.L.: None of the recognised electric fences
can harm your cattle if properly installed.
See local dealer about it... .P.M.: That iceberg
appeared in 1854; being 60 miles by 40 miles
and 300 ft. high it was apt to give trouble....
A.A.: Could be due to too much artificial
fertiliser R.M.: Chrome orange will correct
the bluish tint S.Y.: “The 8.”....M.5.:
Numerous people have learned telegraphy
proficiently as a result of the war, so he would
need A 1 qualifications to do well in that pro-
fession S.C.: Your neighbor must share
the cost C.R.: Rust itself could not cause
the complaint you mention L.H.: Yes....
G. 8.: Arsenic and caustic soda will kill it ott.
H.K.: Sonja Henie was 14 when she came
second in the world championship figure-
skating contests 0.H.; 155,280 people
appeared in police courts in 1902 throughout the
Commonwealth. Of these 123,800 were con-
victed, while 3010 were committed to superior
courts J.C.8.: Any pawn can be queened.
A.K.S.; Information unobtainable.
Answers to Correspondents
Name and address must appear on the MS. ho
liability is undertaken re contributions voluntarily
submitted; and no MS. will be returned unless
stamps accompany. MS. should be addressed to
the Editor.
The Muse aroused:
B.B.:
It’s easy to criticise
A war-time woman’s looks,
But men don’t have to struggle
With zippers, eyes and hooks.
. ...8.M.E.: Too tearful J.J.L.: Quinsy
compounds, elisions and inversions don’t make
it “modern” H.E.N.; Get someone to re-
cite it G.K.P.: We don’t reprint....
M.C.D.: Full of echoes... .A.C.W.; Ineffabl)
feeble G.D.: Sentimental H.W.S.: ‘ The
Swaggie” adds nothing to an elderly theme
j.H.: It needs clarifying A.L.H.. Azure
skies rushing rivers, “colored flora,” bees
shoo' J.W.: Polish “The White Ship” and
try a daily... .D.McC.: Why not try to write
the stories in prose instead of hinting at cm
in verse? R.1.K.: See if you can knock
Bill into better shape,... J.D.F,: You won
scribble many masterpieces during the unen
hour R.8.R.: A glimmer here and there-
8.E.8.: The fruit’s under size CP.-
“j note thy mighty Bridge.” We note my
mighty archaisms... .H.T.8.: Transferred Last
Pig in the Sty” to the basket... ,E.P.: Gfflj
trees may have “morals good and high,
don’t get much chance to break out... -C-t-H.-
Gets nowhere....O.W.: Stick to it-.-.M-P-
Skittish rather than stinging.... A-E.C
Kick” hasn’t any.... .C.M.: Backgrounds att
right, but the stories lack weight ....DM* ■
Something in it, but not enough M.tVi
Joey’s flying back.


THE OTHER FELLOW'S MIND
The contributor placed first is paid
4|d. per line; all others 2|d. per line.
A.W.L.
As a compulsory attender of courts-
martial, and as an old Gordon High-
lander, a First A.I.F. man and an
ex-member of the C.M.F. in this war,
I have come to the conclusion that much
army crime of the A.W.L. order is due to
the unsympathetic attitude of officers and
n.c.os. towards the mostly-callow youth
with whom they have to deal.
At Sydney’s Victoria Barracks a
number of men are tried each week. In
about 90 p.c., perhaps more, of the cases
they are charged with desertion. Their
excuses are often of the flimsiest, “sick
wife and no one to look after the kids”
being a favorite. Some are genuine
cases, others are not; but the chaff and
the grain are soon separated.
In the genuine cases it is only too fre-
quently brought out that a soldier who
has trouble at home and wants leave in
order to clear things up has been unable
to get the ear of his commanding officer.
Too often does the president (Major
Elliot, M.C., a veteran of both wars and
just the man for the job) elicit that a
youngster’s request for leave got no
farther than a sergeant or sergeant-major,
who, in order probably to save himself
the trouble of parading the lad, has made
a decision “off his own bat.”
It appears to me, too, that far too
many commanding officers, particularly
of the militia, manage to hedge them-
selves about with a divinity that is
absurd.
In my old Highland regiment, the
R.S.M., before dismissing the 9 a.m.
orderly-room parade, invariably shouted
out “Does any man wish to see his com-
manding officer?” —a practice which I,
with permission, instituted in my own
A.I.F. regiment, and which had excellent
results. There was no explanation asked
for or given. The interview between two
soldiers, C.O. and humble private, was a
man-to-man affair, and concerned no one
else.
If this old custom were introduced and
made compulsory I am convinced that
we would hear much less of the A.W.L.
trouble—O. B. C. (N.S.W.).
A Word for Russia
I was glad to see (B. 10/2/’43) an
article which was almost complimentary
to Russia. I cannot see why a paper
may not oppose Communism for Austra-
lia and still admit it may be suitable for
Russia.
Russia, in the last twenty-five years, has
attempted to make a modern nation.
Britain has had 1200 years to do the
same job. When England was a series
of small kingdoms Russia had a num-
ber of small republics, the people of
which were as liberty-loving as the Eng-
lish. But England, on the greater part
of her borders, was defined and protected
by the sea. The descendants of the
Danes, Normans and other invaders be-
came Englishmen. Russia was exposed
by the steppes to the inroads of the Mon-
gols and Tartars. When the Grand
Duchy of Moscow arose Russia, like
France, accepted despotism as the price
of independence.
Russia has gone a long way since the
revolution. In time it may reach the
goal of freedom. —R. H. Wood (N.S.W.).
A.R.P. Lights and Sidelights
In the matter of lighting restrictions
some curious anomalies exist.
While we as a household conscien-
tiously draw our blinds at night, we find a
Government high school in full view of
the waterway (and incidentally our front
door) a blaze of light; and a muni-
tions annexe advertises its location by
showing forth lights which are visible
from many parts of the city.
Taken to task by an A.R.P. warden
because of a well-masked light which
had been turned on to enable some
people to traverse a rather dangerous
footway in safety, I drew his attention
to a bonfire on reclaimed land (owned by
the municipal council) just across the
river, the glare lighting up wharves and
a stretch of railway. “Oh,” he replied,
“that’s nothing to do with me; it’s not
on my round!”
Why should restrictions, rigorously
imposed on householders, be flouted by
public bodies and Government authori-
ties? —J. A. C. (Tas.).
The P.B.V.D.C.
No doubt what “Jesmond” (B.
13/1 / ’43) says about absenteeism in the
V.D.C. is true, but what is the cause of
it? Wffiat else can be expected when the
military authorities look down on the
corps?
Here in Kalgoorlie, where we get more
than our share of hot weather, we have
to supply our own summer uniform, and
that costs money and coupons. Until
lately we have had to supply our own
water-bottles, blankets and groundsheets.
It is only the patriotism of the V.D.C.
members that keeps the corps going, and
the sooner it is treated as a military force
and not as a bunch of has-beens the
better. — Guerrilla (W.A.),
Efficiency?
I read in a Great Daily that “the
Director-General of Man-power has built
up an efficient organisation.”
Was it “efficiency” that called up labor,
skilled labor, from the land (after the
land, as ever, had given its sons as volun-
“ Understand, soldier—every care taken but no responsibility!”
with disastrous results to primary
product i on 9
p j jt “ e ffi cienc y” that has called up
from charcoal bu y rning s 0 many skilled
burners that charcoal is unobtainable in
after farmers were forced to
g£t produoe ’ s?
Is it “efficiency” that has debarred Uni-
vers j ty students from study and has
wasted in three months, at the Sydney
um vers ity alone, 67,000 man hours?
i s it “efficiency” that is going to call
SQ much semi-skill from retail trades
tbat turnover must fall and with it tax-
revenue, leading to still higher class taxa-
tion?
« efficiency » that calls up labor
£ rom sm ithies and repair shops when
new plant is unprocurable?—Wamberal
(N.S.W.).
.. w
augar-coaung war
I went to the pictures the other night
and saw a Hollywood version of modern
war. Item were plenty of pretty g.rls
in the picture; good, heart-stirring music,
too, and, as was only natural, the hero
copped the beauteous wench. The
audience lapped it up. ■ .
Then we saw a few newsreels: Aussies
fighting in Timor, Aussies and Yanks
battling in the New Guinea jungle, and,
finally, five minutes of stark horror on
the Russian front—heaps of Nazi dead,
burning homes, ragged peasants plodding
through slush, children dead in the snow,
community graves by the dozen and
N^e a reitio a nfo d f the audience to these
W
the Hollywood travesty on war had had
the entire audience on its feet.
That seems to prove that the influence
of Hollywood is all on the side of com-
placency, to such an extent that Austra-
lian audiences are now practically im-
mune to the “real thing” and can only
react to war when it is sugar-coated. —
Zend Avesta (Q.).
Why Not Dehydrated Beer?
Now that we have powdered milk, de-
hydrated mutton and various other foods
in concentrated form, why not de-
hydrate beer? If this were done and if
beer were sold in pill or powder form,
think of the crowd of barmen, barmaids
and publicans who would be made avail-
able thereby for the war effort.
All bars could then be closed and all
hotels converted into hostels for sol-
diers, etc., run on a temperance basis.
Whisky and spirits of all kinds should
be obtainable only from chemists or
storekeepers. They could also supply the
public with the powdered or pill beer. —
Beero (Q.).
Income-tax Assessments
I wonder how many income-tax payers
attempt to forecast or cheek their assess-
ments. They are not encouraged to
bother about anything beyond pay deduc-
tions. The daily press reports changes
in taxation rates merely in the form of
tables stating the tax on a few represen-
tative incomes without indicating the
method of computation. Only those
curious enough to read financial periodi-
cals are able to And, weeks later, a state-
ment „£ the formula. ,
It seems to be believed that the ealeu-
lations are too complicated to be under-
stood by those without special training.
This is not so. Although the schedules
are not as simple as they should be, a
primary-school knowledge of arithmetic
is sufficient for anybody who wishes to
use them.
Apparently, however, our legislators,
with the contempt which they show for
the citizens at all times except when elec-
tions are pending, consider it unneces-
sary to give adequate publicity to these
important formulae.
Every reasonable man realises the need
for heavy taxation at present; but those
who pay have the right to be told with-
out research on their part, the method by
which their individual liabilities are
asse ssed.—Col (N.S.W.).
f G
s . .
Surely it should be obvious to he
Federal Government that . it _ shou _
lotteries and betting. These two
are booming. Sales tax should be ap-
plied to lottery tickets and a P°P lon °
all big prizes should be paid Govern-
ment loan bonds. Lotte ie
be allowed to flour is , ,
boundaries in the full B miblic
each was the source P
benefit. it ■
not Sufficient bookmaker ;
inspection
licensed. * IESi. John'ciUzen had to
apply for a bettor’s license, pay a fee
and carry his license with him for pro-
duction when making a bet, control
would be simple, and many erstwhile
lawbreakers would be made law-abiding
citizens. —Six to Four (Q.).
Shoddy Shoes and Poor Leather
The Director of Footwear and Leather
Supplies, Mr. Rosevear, is often heard to
the effect that he will prevent manufac-
ture of “shoddy shoes” for civilian use.
It savors of political propaganda at the
expense of a secondary industry than
which there is none more highly devel-
oped in the country.
The solution is easy. Let the Govern-
ment arrange for the supply of good
grade leather to manufacturers instead of
the big percentage of bellies and shoul-
ders which many factories are compelled
to use to meet the clamor from traders
for shoes of all descriptions.
Present production is less than half
requirements, despite rationing, and no
manufacturer desires to wilfully damage
his reputation by using shoddy leather. —
Mark Patch (Q.).
Examinations
There should be fewer
for children and more for adults. By
adopting this principle it might be pos-
sible to avoid a lot of “shovel-nosing”
that goes on in Government-controlled
departments.
I suppose many have heard the stories
(or similar ones) of the ex-pastrycook
who is now an Inspector of Victory Suits
and of the ex-window-cleaner now emi-
nent in the councils of a highly special-
ised department.
Appointment by examination results
would cut the ground from under those
who tell such stories, though it might
cramp the style of politicians with pals
to oblige.
And why shouldn’t politicians take a
simple examination in first principles of
economics and perhaps also in English?
This would go a long way towards restor-
ing their prestige among the voters. —
Margaret D. (Q.).
Kids have changed since my day if
they now enjoy.exams. (B. 3/2/’43). But
whether they do or not is beside the
point. Exams, are meant not to entertain
students but to test their knowledge ; and
in that they frequently fail. One example
from my own experience.
When I started work I was condemned
to take Statics and Dynamics at night
school. 1 failed. The next year I did
not attend classes, but engaged a coach
two months before the exam. She com-
menced by advising me to bypass one
chapter, comprising about one-sixth of
the textbook, on the ground that there
was never more than one out of ten ques-
tions set on that section. We concen-
trated on the remainder, with one eye
always on the type of questions set in
previous exams.
My coach tipped correctly. I did nine
questions and actually gained top honors.
That result proved nothing except that I
had a clever coach and a capacity for
swotting. This was confirmed the fol-
lowing year, when another junior in the
office took S. and D., because, though I
racked my brains for an hour over his
exam, papers, I could not recall enough
to have given me 10 per cent. — Ajax
(S.A.).
That children enjoy exams, is no more
true than that teachers enjoy them. Com-
petition is not “the only practical means
of testing efficiency and general ability.”
In matters of education it’s neither practi-
cal nor defensible. No teacher worth his
or her salt is unaware of the standard of
each individual pupil in the class, and
none denies that many an ordinarily good
student becomes a wreck at exam. time.
Then, again, there is the dreadful time-
fixation of exams. My nephew swotted
for his leaving, went down with measles
on the exam. eve. There was no way in
which he could be examined other than
in that exam, class ; result-he had to wait
another year.
“Quiz shows on the air” are a poor
criterion. They’re full of blunders and
howlers.
In N.S.W. there is a system of finding
the intelligence quotient of each child.
The i.q. is kept a secret, not even the
parents being told, but children who
reveal a high i.q. are given the opportu-
nity to go to special study courses.
Though this isn’t done widely, to my
mind it beats the exam, system hollow,
since the pupil passes naturally from one
class to the other. In N.S.W. in the
recent leaving exams, at least two students,
worried over the results and probably
brought to nervous exhaustion by swot-
ting, disappeared from their homes. They
achieved press notice. Many others don t,
the parents being quick to locate them.
—Linker (N.S.W.).


Family
of Steel
by William J. Dunn
Correspondent for Columbia
Broadcasting System of America,
now touring Australia .
I’D like you to meet the Roberts
family . . . Dad Roberts and bis
four sons . . . Jack, Arthur, Eric,
and young Keith. They’re what I’d
call a typical “Family of Steel”.
As soon as I found out that there
were five Robertses all working for
BHP, I knew that there must be a
story in it. The way I look at it,
when a man is so satisfied with his
work that he advises his four sons to
follow in his footsteps, that’s news.
Generally it’s the other way round.
We all know the story about the en-
gine driver who said to his son, “My
boy, never be an engine driver. I
wish now I’d been a bank clerk.” But
that’s not how it is with Dad Roberts.
Here’s a man who doesn’t feel he’s
missed out . . . who’s perfectly satis-
fied with his life. A pleasant, kindly-
faced Australian, Dad Roberts laughed
w r hen I related how I’d asked to see
“Mr. Roberts” and met the question,
“Which one? There’s five of them.”
His eyes twinkled. “That’s right.
Five here now . . . and one on the
waiting list.” Waiting list? How
come? “My grandson, young Maxwell.
We’ve put him on the list as a future
Steel Man. No BHP man with a son
has any difficulty in getting him
placed with the Company.”
“No man has any difficulty . .
A great deal lies behind those five
words. A father’s thankful sense of
security . . . for himself, for his sons’
future. An entire family’s loyalty to
the Company which gives them not
mere jobs, but an interest in life and
a chance to get ahead.
And right now, Dad Roberts has
another reason for satisfaction. As
essential war workers, he and his boys
are doing their bit on the “Factory
Front”. Which means a lot to a man
who went through World War I.
When the first contingent of Aus-
tralians sailed away . . . those lean,
sun-browned Diggers who were to
teach the world the meaning of Anzac
. Dad Roberts was with them. So
was Grandad Roberts, who was 51,
but gave his age as 44, so he could
enlist in the same battalion as his
son.
When you visit the Roberts home,
in a suburb not too far from the city,
you step right into the middle of a
happy, busy family. With four sons
and three schoolgirl daughters filling
the house with bustle, life is never
dull in this cheerful, comfortable
home. It’s not the sort of place where
you daren’t sit on the cushions or
drop crumbs on the carpet. You re-
lax and make yourself really “at
home”. Neighbours drop in for a
chat, while Mrs. Roberts sits down to
mend another sock. A small girl’s
doll stares at you from a corner. The
small girl herself is laughing happily
as she plays with her friends outside.
Fourteen-year-old Beryl, eldest of
the girls, helps her mother with the
housekeeping, which is no easy job
with the menfolk all on different
shifts and needing meals at different
hours. Fair-haired Beryl takes after
her father. She shyly admits that she
can “sing a bit” . . . Dad Roberts
points proudly to the five silver cups
she has won at eisteddfods. I noticed
there were other silver trophies on
the Roberts mantelpiece . . . dancing
awards won by eleven-year-old Rayma
and eight-year-old Doreen.
Dad Roberts surveys his family
with the pleasure of a man who
knows that his sons are launched in
good jobs. “I like to see them all
set,” he says. “They can earn good
money at BHP. As much as £l6 or
£lB a fortnight, once they are out of
their time. It’s a big load off a man’s
mind to see his boys getting a good
start in life.”
“Getting a good start in life” . . .
That’s what every Australian wants
for his sons. It’s what this war is
being fought for . . . so that we of
the United Nations may hand on to
our children the democratic privileges
that are the core of our way of life.
Nobody needs to tell Australians that
their whole future as a nation de-
pends upon the preservation of this
way of life. Every Australian fully
realises it. And in their important
job of keeping the war machine roll-
ing, these Men of Steel at BHP are
doing their share to maintain Aus-
tralia’s future.
-K ★ *
BHP is a publicly-owned Australian
company with over 20,000 share-
holders. The people who founded and
who direct this company have laid
the foundations of a great national
Industry . . . Steel. It is a tribute to
the co-operation between management
and employees that steel from the
BHP plant has won a leading place
on the world’s markets. After the
war this low-priced steel will play a
vital part in the development of Aus-
tralia’s resources.
Dad Roberts has been with BHP for 17 years. A blacksmith by trade, he turned ambulance officer 8 years ago. There
is a model Ambulance Station at the works. From left: Dad Roberts, Arthur Roberts. Arthur, 22, works in the new
tool room. So does Eric, 20. Keith, 16, is serving his time as an apprentice.
In the big, comfortable kitchen, Dad makes a pot of tea for himself and his
four sons. From left: Robert Roberts (“Dad”), eldest son , Jack ( strumming
on his banjo), Eric holding the music, Arthur looking over his shoulder, and
young Keith standing at the back. Reason for varied attire is that some are
just off their shift, others just going on. Note NES equipment hanging ready
for emergency. Except Keith, all are NES members. Keith is with Volunteer
Fire Brigade.
The youngest Roberts is four-
months-old Maxwell, son of the
eldest Roberts boy, Jack. Now
26, Jack has been with BHP
since he was 18. He's in the
coke oven sulphate section.
Out of a full and happy life, Dad Roberts has
developed a sound and homely philosophy-
There's something very satisfying, he thins
about getting close to the soil. Here yon see
him busy with a flourishing crop of broad
beans and peas.
