

R
The Bulletin
“The Bulletin,” VoL 64.—N0. 3294
Wednesday, March 31, 1943
Price 6d.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W.. Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.
Seppelts
WHITBY.
T' HIS seacoast town in Yorkshire has a more intimate, Perhaps
T “peculiar” is a preferable word, association with Australia and Ne
Zealand than many which could be named. At one tim ® n w as f
for the building of wooden ships, hence it was the vessels
for Captain Cook’s epoch-making voyages. To the l™ ™ P t CaedSon
turn Whitby appeals, from its association with our hist Caedl f° y
Sf fiStf I LttS SSf. “ordin^
?o which 1 i. wit •* .hat the spirit of I,“““PfS
him and that he was exhorted to “‘«ng /he beginning to
SmpoLf Bibk Of; his tjgjphrag .one
copy of the tenth century is in the Bodleian Library, Ox .and o
the ecclesiologist, as it owes its origin to the . f ™ try ga^ ne d
o > v^ a king' n penda N °Tlie n mo , nastery b5 emb , raced b an e estaj)lishiTient for
»«f tft 1
the* sh? shape of the religious
tonsure. In 867 the town and abbey
for 200 years lay waste. At the Conquest the lands eventually
William de Percy. In 1074 the restoration of , of the abbey
Reinfrid, who. had been a soldier ini the 'Conquerors andominate the old
all now remaining are the rums of the holiday town on the
red-roofed town in marked contrast t 0 modern h v jaw ... £arly
opposite bank of the river Esk. The oldest P richly decorated.
English, as is the transept, bu of later The nave is ncn y
The west side of the nave fell in 1763 and t “ n e . t ?^ er si ” 1 i‘ cet windows in
and east sides are best preserved. The easldmlnistraSon of the abbey is
two tiers. One curious thing as to the admmistratmn or me *
that the abbess, contrary to custom, was su P erior „ ‘‘Maimion” made
have clustered round this venerable ruined pile, bcott in roanuw
mention of one which told:
“How sea-fowls’ pinions fail.
As over Whitby's towers they sail, .
And, sinking down with fluttermgs taint,
They do their homage to the saint. tiU/ . ... v
whithv k also associated with the “black-amber” known as Whitby
which“ments of various and
How old is this industry may be judged from the fact that _ h i e
St heads have been found in British Tuniuli on the moors Alum shale
SIL exists the 6 neighborhood. It looks and feels like slate soaked m
grease.


Learn
'X:
Storu Writing
U* l Vi at HomF
This Book FREE to YOU!
STOTT’S CORRESPONDENCE COLLEGE,
100 Russell Street, Melbourne.
Please send, without obligation, your New Free
Booklet, explaining how to Write for Profit, at
advertised in the Sydney “Bulletin:’
My Name
My Address
S.B. 243
The Red Page
Tamed Man and Lawless.
I should like to supplement Leslie
Rees’s excellent analysis of Douglas
Stewart’s play Ned Kelly (R.P. 10/3/’43)
by a brief comment on what to me is its
central motive. This, roughly stated, is
the conflict of moral values between
tamed man and lawless man. Or be-
tween our acquired civilised conscious-
ness and the primitive genesis which
underlies it. The whole world is at this
moment in violent disruption over this
very problem, and we are aware of the
precarious hold mankind has on the sta-
bility of that objective which we label
civilisation.
Here we are faced with the awkward
dilemma of calling on the energies of
our primitive genesis to defend our civil-
ised consciousness. We are forced to
realise the discovery of modern psycho-
pathology that man must use his primi-
trve urge to vitalise his civilised motivity.
He must maintain a precise balance be-
tween both forces if he is to function at
his highest. Otherwise he is faced with
the schizophrenic nemesis: either to
freeze into neurotic inertia or blaze into
paranoic frenzy.
I herefore the objective of civilisation
is not tamed man, for that means devital-
ised man. Nor is it wild man, for his
overflow of primitive energy is almost
invariably destructive. The Utopian per-
rectionist who dreams of a perfectly
ordered and safe earth is just as great a
danger to civilisation ns the primitive
brute who releases his forces in
aperiodic outburst of bloodlust and de-
duction But we need his primal energy
if we are to put a civilised concept of
life into creative action. And that con-
cept will need first of all the man of
action, for there never will be advance
into new and strange conditions of life
and the outlook on it without danger
from reactionary man himself. And it is
out of the violence and emotional dis-
ruption of such eras that a new impetus
is given to life and a renewed fecundity
to mind. The man of action is the blood
brother of the artist.
If we have the right to expect a
icnaissance in art with this present
war, then its avatar is not tamed man,
overcivilised man, safety-first man, but
reckless man, danger-seeking man, heroic
man, for he gives us the stark material
from which art is created.
And the motive of Stewart’s Ned
Kelly goes direct to this problem of
moral values in man. Its theme is struck
at the very outset by Byrne and Living.
And it is subtly interwoven into the
whole texture of the play, for each indi-
vidual character is also a facet of out-
look on its central motive. In Gribble,
the humanitarian speaks. In Brett, the
gentleman shrugs off moralistic opinion
on it. Richards, the policeman, voices
its war between by-law and outlaw.
Tarleton, the bank manager, makes a
joke of it ; Living reflects tamed man’s
hatred of its threat to his meagre exist-
ence ; Mackin ejects youth’s impatient
need for life in action at any cost. The
women are all on the side of the out-
laws, as women always are, with their
unerring knowledge that the feminine
function is vitalised by life in action.
In short, the play has what every fine
work of art must have, and that is a
universal theme springing direct from
emotion generated by its present actu-
ality.
But one must qualify understanding on
this dictum. Leslie Rees quotes an
opinion to the effect that literature can-
not be indifferent to the preoccupations
of its own time. This is true, but unless
the preoccupation is understood no con-
cept can lead writers further astray. To
snatch material for art from the immedi-
ate action of life is to create second-rate
art. The artist therein has confused his
job with the metier of journalist. No
work is deader a few years hence than
that which springs hot from the opinion
of the moment. This must be so, for no
material for art has value till it has been
absorbed into the general consciousness.
If it survives there, then it is good
material for art, because it is already a
physiological ingredient of the humar
mind. That great writers like Dickens
and Balzac intruded sociological pre-
occupations of the moment into theii
works is merely the evidence that theii
works were great enough to survive such
defects.
Do we get a hint through Shakspeare
that the preoccupations of his time were
the threatened invasion of England by
Spain, or that everywhere religious fanati-
cism was as violent as political frenzy
is today, or that Drake and his adven-
turers were coloring the map of an un-
known earth with violent and heroic
deeds? What we do get of all this
through Shakspeare is the dramatic in-
tensity with which he envisioned a life
of color and violence. It is to a concept
of life generated from such a source that
the creative artist must go. But if he
allows the politician and the journalist
to intrude on that concept he has thrown
his work into the garbage tin with yes-
terday’s newspaper.
Douglas Stewart’s play is the evi-
dence that he is intensely aware of the
preoccupations of his time. But he has
wisely put them in a form which will
have as direct an appeal to future ages
as it does to the present one. And it is
my conviction that future ages will re-
spond to his poetic drama of Ned Kelly
with the same fascination as we do
today.
NORMAN LINDSAY.
Sassoon and Newbolt.
His personality, says Siegfried Sassoon
somewhere in The Weald of Youth
(Faber), is “diffident and retiring.” For
a modest fellow he has not done badly:
Memoirs of a Fox-Hunting Man,
Memoirs of an Infantry Officer, Sher-
ston s Progress, The Old Century and
now The Weald of Youth —five volumes
of autobiography, and a sixth projected!
Yet, oddly, it remains true that the
personality depicted in all these autobio-
graphies is diffident and retiring. Though
The Weald of Youth as a whole suggests
that Sassoon’s evaluation of his poetry is
higher than the general estimation, the
stories he tells of his first adventures in
the literary world are nearly all,against
himself, anecdotes of youthful preciosities
and gaucheries. Resembling Lamb’s in
its exploitation of his own foibles to
paint a quietly humorous and pleasantly
human personality; and resembling
Proust’s in its exploration of youth and
childhood, lapped in nostalgic beauty, to
evoke some indefinable “significance”—
the essence of a human experience—the
impulse that moves Sassoon to autobio-
graphy is essentially literary and creative.
He defines his purpose as
an attempt to compose an outline of my
mental history.
That is true enough of The Weald of
Youth, and is the key to an understand-
ing of its weakness. But it is less true
of his earlier autobiographies, which, like
Proust’s novels, were rather an attempt
to distil from the ordinary events of his
life the moments of poetic illumination.
In war he found tragic splendor; in fox-
hunting, the mysticism of the earth ; in
rivers, a revelation of the stream of
beauty. These early books were the testa-
ments of a minor poet who, lacking the
full creative energy to express himself
in his original medium, turned with relief
to the easier instrument of prose.
And a good autobiography may well
be more valuable than the ffickerings of
a small talent in verse. But in The Weald
of Youth Sassoon makes the mistake of
treating that minor talent as if it were
a major endowment whose growth is
worth a volume of description. There
is little interest in his “mental history”
as a poet (what books he read ; by whom
he was influenced) and still less interest in
his practical career as a poet (what early
verses he destroyed or published; what
editors helped him ; what reviewers were
kind or unkind).
The chief interest of the literary anec-
dotes lies in Sassoon’s meetings with such
men as Gosse, Davies and Rupert Brooke.
A fragment of Gosse’s heroically poly-
syllabic conversation, for example, on an
occasion when he was showing Sassoon
through the House of Lords:
“Some of them, I doubt not, are in-
dulging in a decorous doze. The speaker
is one of the most profusely unenlivening
of our hereditary legislators!”
Rupert Brooke impressed him as “a
being singled out for some transplendent
performance, some enshrined achieve-
ment.”
But even the literary anecdotes are not
good. The portrait of Gosse is well
done ; also that of the belligerent George
Crosland, who wrote The Unspeakable
Scot. But “Little Bill” Davies makes
only the briefest of entries, and Brooke
and Sassoon had nothing to say to each
othe.r. “He may even have breathed a
sigh of relief at having got rid of me at
last, as he closed the door quietly and
went back to being his unimpeded self.”
“It is with the minutiee of mortality
that I am mainly occupied in this half-
humorous epitome of my career,” says
Sassoon, apologising for talking about
golf. But that’s just the time when his
autobiography needs no apology. The
minutiae of mortality are always interest-
ing—never more so than in Sassoon’s
prose ; but the minuti® of an unimportant
career as a poet are a different matter.
The Weald of Youth beats out thin
material to its utmost. Because it does
the opposite, selects and compresses the
riches of mature experience. The Later
Life and Letters of Sir Henry Newbolt
(Faber) makes the Sassoon book seem
pallid. It is not so well written ; it is
not essentially creative ; it has no. chance
of living as a work of art, as Sassoon’s
volume may among the series of his auto-
biographies ; but, book for book, it is
far the more interesting of the two. It
is both a clear, strong portrait of the finest
type of English Imperialist and a lively
collection of literary anecdotes about
such men as Bridges, Yeats, Hardy,
Wells, Binyon and Henry James.
Newbolt is particularly good on Hardy.
On the serious side, there’s Hardy’s
warning to writers (with which Newbolt
disagreed) that integrity is best preserved
in solitude, in isolation from literary
societies and political factions:
He had apparently a strong feeling
that a writing man should spend most of
his leisure in solitude —-should at any rate
pass his time much as he used to do in the
days when he had not yet attracted the
attention of the public. When success
comes to a writer (Hardy thought) he gener-
ally follows the opposite course —he accepts
invitations and takes a place in society; he
changes his habits and tastes, till he has
almost lost the thread of his own life.
And on the lighter side, there’s the
almost incredible illustration of the
lengths to which Hardy was prepared to
go to preserve his integrity from the
perils of fame; the story of the gold medal
presented to him at Max Gate by New-
bolt and Yeats for the Royal Society of
Literature. So insistent was Hardy that
the presentation should be private that
he even ordered his wife out of the room
while it took place, forcing Yeats and
Newbolt to deliver their ceremonial
addresses to him alone ; and so rigid was
Hardy’s conception of honor that, hav-
ing supplied reporters in advance with a
copy of his reply, he insisted on speaking
every word of it to the embarrassed visi-
tors. “The world would read next morn-
ing that he had addressed the Deputation
in such and such words and phrases—he
could not allow himself to make the
falsehood theirs instead of his.”
One more Hardy story:
He had found a striking quotation:
Nature knows no morality,” and wanted
to use it, but could not trace it, so he
took the trouble to hunt it up in reference
books at the British Museum and found it
came from Tess of the D’Urbervilles!
Followed wherever he went by the
splendid thunder of “Drake’s Drum” and
haunted by “Play up, and play the
game!”—“l hope that Posterity won’t
take it for my idea of Poetry, as To be
or not to be’ is commonly supposed to
be W.S.’s”—Newbolt hoped to achieve
far more than that in poetry;
My real ambition is to leave some poems
—enough of them—to make a lasting
change in men’s ideas of Time and Eternity.
Hardy could do that; but it was be-
yond Newbolt’s powers. Not every
writer can be a Hardy. The Later Life
and Letters conveys the impression of a
life with much talent, but without the
single-mindedness and intensity of genius,
lived to its fullest capacity: with
distinction in letters, with dignity and
high idealism in politics. The political
anecdotes —Newbolt’s friends included
Edward Grey and Arthur Balfour—are
as interesting as the literary gossip; and,
as the book covers the period of the
Great War, it has a fair measure of
topical relevance.
SUNDRY SHOWS.
“F.S.”: Theodore Fink, whose collec-
tion of Phil May drawings goes to Mel-
bourne Technical College, was one of
May’s most intimate friends, and got hold
of many “studio leavings”—rough sketches
in pencil, often more vigorous and lively
than the finished drawings. They are
lull of cheerful humor, like the one of
Henry Parkes, “always notoriously hard
up, lecturing public servants on getting
into difficulties.” The same gentleman
figures in an interesting study for a Bul-
letin cartoon relating to Parkes’s pro-
posal to alter the name of New South
Wales to Australia. S’Henry is repre-
sented as a sailor attempting an act of
larceny by stealing the whole continent
in Captain Cook’s cabin on the Endea-
vour. A better name is suggested for
N.S.W.-—Convictoria. The show is almost
a pictorial inventory of Sydney and Mel-
bourne worthies of a bygone generation.
There are the late Dr. L. L. Smith, of
Melbourne ; Bishop Field Flowers Goe •
conductor Alberto Zeiman; artist Blamire
Young; E. G. Fitzgibbon in a joyous
mood at the Garrick ; Peter Lalor; Dun-
can Gillies carrying all before him
George Coppin, theatrical manager
comedian and politician; and Melton
Prior, war artist for the “Illustrated Lon-
don News,” complete with sideboards,
directing military operations in the
Sudan. Considering the range of the
collection, it is rather surprising to re-
member that Phil May was only three
years in Australia.
Despite generosity on the part of the
selection committee, the general average
of skill in the “Australians in the Ser-
vices” exhibition at the Education De-
partment’s galleries, Sydney, is quite as
high as in the annual shows of some of the
societies. A suspicion is engendered that
some of these exhibitors are hiding a
well-known light under a bushel. It is
impossible to mention all the meritori-
ous work, but Corp. George Eddy’s
vigorous landscape in oils ; Lieut. R. M.
Warner’s masterly water-colors; Sergt.
H. F. Abbott’s clever pen-and-tint
sketches ; Signaller N. Hanke’s paintings
of camp scenes ; Leading Aircraftman H.
Freedman’s portraits in oils and in chalk;
Private A. Martin’s self-portrait (he’s
evidently a Meldrumite) and Sapper
J. L. Koski’s woodcutty pen-drawing for
“Salt” insist on recognition.
Joan Isherwood, whose pictures in oils
and water-colors hang at the Macquarie
Galleries, Sydney, has a pretty taste in
color contrasts, and such water-colors
as “Woolloomooloo Glimpse,” “Windsor
Evening” and “In the Windsor District”
make pleasant decorative patterns. They
owe nothing identifiable to either Wool-
loomooloo or Windsor, but, as “S.M.H.”
has kindly explained, the subject is “only
a vehicle for the conveyance of the artist's
feelings, and has no reason of its own.”
The Woolloomooloovians can put that in
their pipe and smoke it.
At the talkies:
In his transcription for the screen of “This
Above All” (Sydney Century), R. C. Sherriff
has departed from the letter of Eric Knight’s
novel, but not far from the spirit of it. The
struggle between his conscience and the class-
bitterness which made the Dunkirk hero desert
from the B.E.F. is brought well to the fore, but
romance gives conscience a good run for the
money. There’s a box-office happy ending.
It’s well acted, with Joan Fontaine making a
moving appeal for England-with-all-its-faults.
Warner Bros, have broken fresh ground with
the presentation of Russian ballet. Rimsky-
Korsakov’s “Capriccio Espagnole” (Regent) and
the “Gay Parisienne” (Century), set to Offen-
bach’s music, are both fast-moving ballets in
which the corps de ballet is liberally used.
Massine heads the bill in both ballets, with
Toumanova at ease in the Spanish role and
Mladova as the coquettish Parisienne. Angle
photography and color help to make the ex-
periment a success.
Damien Parer continues his good work with
the camera in “Battle of the Bismarck Sea.”
With the Mitchells and Beaufighters tearing
down at around 300 m.p.h., it is only a few
seconds before a distant ship is passed over
almost at mast height; a pity a slow-action
camera could not have recorded that rush. Still,
it’s a dramatic spectacle, as ship after ship be-
low becomes a blazing torch and bargeloads
of Japs are strafed in terrible wave-height runs.
“Mac Hoots”: Upon all who had a
hand in fhe talkie based on The
Jungle Book my heartiest malediction. I
might have pardoned acting of a feeble-
ness beyond belief; I might have par-
doned the excruciating winsomeness of
the commentator; I might have shut my
eyes to the complete unreality of the vil-
lage and all the villagers; I could find
mercy in my heart for the Kew Gardens
jungle, vulgar with technicolor flowers
and haunted by the tooting of impossible
birds; aware of the difficulties of the
producer, I might have refrained from
particularly unprintable comments when
I saw that practically nothing was con-
veyed of the life of the wolf pack, which
is the book’s chief charm; and even
when for the tenth time the same four
antelopes cantered across the same rustic
bridge over the same artificial pond in a
representation of the Wild Life of the
Jungle, only a pale, forgiving smile passed
over my lips. But not until the Last
Trump blows, and even the sins of talkie
producers are forgiven, can I pardon the
betrayal of the whole theme and purpose
of the book in Korda’s final scene.
Mowgli, you will remember, turns in
fury upon the man-pack, and Kipling
gives us the magnificent scene of the Let-
ting in of the Jungle—the great elephants
knocking down the walls and trampling
on the ruins of the houses, the wild pigs
rooting in the fields, the deer in the crops,
Bagheera howling in the streets and the
villagers fleeing in terror: symbolically,
the expression of an almost Swiftian
loathing for the pettiness of mankind.
Abandoning all that superb drama (which
should not have been altogether beyond
its resources), the talkie utterly destroys
Kipling’s symbolism by concluding with
a forest fire started by the villagers them-
selves. Many who are now living shall
see hereafter better flames than those ot
technicolor.


"TRUTH IN ADVERTISING"
ANTHONY HORDERNS 9
119 Years of Service
"TREESOL”
Science’s Powerful Anti-Germ Weapon
"THE SENIOR STORE"
IV
¥
/ v\\\
Vf * . S\\
V\
a
n
MU
”u\V^V~
\v\
.v-/
" <
fr-
ff
(■ ’■ N l -
-
x;
rX ~
\s
J A
<A
'X~
tb
m
6
r
«/
o o
u
Ny
>(✓
<0
Av
»= x^a\s
a
U>X
Or
Or
Ht
; .
s
V
a:
<*•
r?)
<Sr?rA^
fv "7; '
■?
/ \
If
V\
J K!
B
Sv» A A
t( v\~7f
(I
K
Price 37'6 per drum of 5 gallons.
Freight extra.
"Delta-Treesol" Liquid Soap is the most effective germicidal
antiseptic soap known to science.
IN THE HOME. Suitable for all domestic and laundry purposes.
FOR SHEEP MEN. A sure safeguard against any danger of
blood poisoning through handling infected wool, etc.
FOR HOSPITALS. It renders uniforms, utensils, bed linens, etc.
free from infections.
Doctors and health authorities to-day generally advocate the
use of a reliable disinfectant to guard against germs. And the
all-purpose Disinfectant we recommend is "Delta-Treesol." Its
antiseptic capacity is 11 to 15 times as strong as Carbolic and
when embedded in a soapy compound, its action on certain
germs is 40 to 60 times as quick as the action of most
disinfectants.
® Chemistry—Ground Floor, Pitt Street.
ANTHONY HORDERNS 9
Famous Low Prices
PHONE: M 2401 (DAY AND NIGHT) POST TO BOX 2712 C, G.P.0., SYDNEY


THE NINTH
By PHILIP M. JONES.
A few months ago the writer sent from the Middle East a short
sketch of the war in Libya, “She’s Quiet, All Right.” These are
more of his memories of the Ninth Division.
The First of Many.
WHEN they first reached the place,
after an arduous withdrawal across
half Libya, they hadn’t learned
much about desert fighting. That
fortnight had been a confused pic-
ture of topographical paradoxes: Ben-
ghazi, lying whitely by the incredibly
blue water; then a vast stretch of
country alternately sand and rock, seen
through the heat haze during the day
and by night through eyes strained and
tired from sleeplessness; Barce in the
late afternoon, when shadows from tall
trees fell across green paddocks wherein
grazed fat, contented cattle ; a narrow
pass through which the road toiled up-
wards in tortuous, engine-straining curves ;
miles of bleak desert with the grey waves
of sand lapping the edges of the rutted
bitumen road.
No one knew for how long they were
to stay. No one cared. Burton pitched
his camp in a deserted stone building and
slept exhausted.
Afterwards it was apparent that they
were to stay, so they half-heartedly dug
holes in the ground and covered them
with scraps of iron or hessian, or just
left them as open gashes in the sand, to
be half-filled every time the dust rose
before the wind.
Burton dug a bit of a hole. It was
only eighteen inches deep, with six inches
of sand heaped up on the sides and a
piece of tarpaulin across the top to keep
sand and dew from his blankets. Every
day enemy ’planes came over and bombed
the town. They watched them from their
vantage point, seeing the ’planes dive
through the mottled layer of ack-ack
bursts to lay their deadly load of bombs
and then scuttle out to the sea and safety.
They cheered like a crowd at a football
match when a Jerry, trailing smoke,
limped away, or when one suddenly burst
into flame, to disintegrate in burning par-
ticles of wood and metal.
On the slope above Burton’s dugout
was a group of buildings. Below them,
crowded on to a hard area of ground not
more than an acre in extent, were the
unit vehicles, cars and trucks, gathered
together as if the owners had left them
for a moment in order to have a “quick
one” at a wayside pub.
So the Luftwaffe found them one even-
ing.
It was 7 p.m. and the sun just edging
out of sight behind the escarpment. Bur-
ton was walking up to the buildings when
he decided to inspect more closely an
armored car parked near his dugout. He
heard the drone of ’planes, registered
them as Stukas and continued his inspec-
tion. The drone became a steady roar.
He prepared now to, watch the usual
“show” over the town, shaded his eyes
and sought to pick their silhouette against
the sun. At least forty ’planes, very low
and uncommonly close, were coming
directly towards him out of the sun. Half-
ashamedly, he started to walk towards
his dugout. They might be come to attack
the unit transport. He dismissed the
thought hurriedly and walked a little
faster.
He finished that walk in a belly-bruis-
ing dive that carried him three-parts into
his dugout. He had been outside long
enough to see the first three ’planes begin
their dive, and to see men pelting into
slit trenches and dugouts and under
trucks and some into the buildings.
There were two men already occupy-
ing his dugout. One he recognised as
Cass, lying half-crouqhed, with the other
man’s head pillowed on his knees. Cass
was saying “Steady on now, son, you’ll
be all right. Y’ safe here. She’ll be
right. Steady now.” And the other man
crouched and shivered and started up with
unseeing eyes when the first bombs broke
in wild thunder to blacken the ground
with their blast.
Burton fumbled with tobacco and
papers, but his fingers trembled so that
the tobacco spilled. He heard the rattle
of a Bren and thought “That’s the Old
and Bold.”
A stick of bombs screamed and burst,
and smoky dust flooded into the dugout.
It became impossible to distinguish the
sound of diving bombers from the sound
of falling bombs.
Once when the scream reached to a
frightful crescendo Cass said “Here’s
one.” But it fell away from them and
burst and shook them like peas in a dry
seedpod. More of the acrid, bitter-
flavored smoke poured in.
Burton coughed and was aware that
the Bren on the hill had ceased to fire.
“Stoppage,” he thought, and dimly hoped
that it was nothing worse.
Then, suddenly, it was all over.
Dazed, they crawled outside. The
ground about them was black, and several
vehicles were burning fiercely.
A head poked up out of a near-by
trench. A hearty voice said “Good show,
eh?”
Somebody was shouting and pointing
up the slope. When they arrived at the
buildings they found that one had been
hit and there were several men buried
under the fallen stonework.
Late that night they had the last man
out, a broken, stiff-lipped lad who said
“Got a smoke on y’, mate?”
Burton went back to his dugout and
put it down a further eighteen inches.
When it was done he stood back and
surveyed the effect.
“A man’s like a flamin’ rat,” he said.
To Alamein.
T REMEMBER the first staging camp
* for that journey. It was in an olive
grove, dark green, cool, and that
night we threw our blankets down on
a short stubble and slept among the
shadowy trees, and all night long the
moon drenched the hills and the valleys
with an unutterably beautiful radiance.
We left next morning, and under the
spell of her late golden summer Syria lay
dreaming of antiquity. The road across
the Sinai desert seemed endless. It winds
through high country, where the sunsets
draw miracles of color-toning from the
rock strata, through flat sandy desert and
through softly undulating country where
from each little rise the narrow road can
be seen like a black tape to the far hori-
zon.
We pressed on through the night. How
many such convoys have there been? The
convoys that took us to battle and those
that brought us out for a spell; convoys
crawling up out of Libyan valleys and
limned beetle-like against the skyline
where the hard, straight edge of an
escarpment cuts the pale dawn like a
knife ; convoys starting off in the early
morning with bustling and orderly con-
fusion ; convoys driving through the
night over rough, half-marked roads with
bone-weary, tired-eyed men hunched
over the steering-wheels, and convoys
moving swiftly over open roads, with a
song in every truck.
We came to Cairo, passing through its
near-empty streets in the early morning,
and we sat up in the crowded trucks and
stretched cramped limbs and greeted pass-
ing Egyptians with shouts of “Saida,
George,” and “Where’s the war?”
Soon the Pyramids rose up on our left,
bathed in the faint, enigmatic mist risen
from the fertile flats spread from the
Delta. Along the road to Alexandria,
slowly now because of the innumerable
vehicles pressing in an endless column
towards us. Like a great earthworm that
convoy seemed, moving a little at its head
so that the centre and then the faraway
tail might draw themselves along. Vehicles
of every military type there were, from
staff cars and little fifteen-hundredweight
vans to petrol tankers and great chug-
ging ten-ton diesel-driven machines, nose
to tail; an incredible variety and an end-
less stream of vehicles, moving in orderly
withdrawal along the only road back.
With infinite patience our convoy shoul-
dered its way forward.
We crowded along the highway to
Amiriya and to the salt marshes in sight
of Alexandria. The Alexandrians cheered
our coming, and the comely Egyptian
girls smiled and waved to us.
It was a good camp we had there. Our
bodies lay luxuriously on a thick grass
carpet. We washed our clothing and re-
sorted our packs, taking everything out
with the intention of discarding useless
trifles, but somehow all the tins and
bottles and accumulated rubbish would be
found to have potential use “up there,”
and back they went. One would have
thought we were going to a ball or a
picnic the way we evaded guards in order
to have a haircut in the city, and the way
we washed and sorted and packed.
Then one morning we moved out. We
didn’t have much to say to each other
then.
The road to Alamein led through
straggly, unfenced orchards and vineyards
and clumps of heavy-headed date palms.
Later it was the single road through arid,
uncultivated desert.
That night we reached our destination.
Trucks were dispersed, and we threw our
blankets on the ground to sleep. Some
of the boys had already been in a savage,
successful action.
In the morning the sun rose hazily out
of the beleaguered east and sparkled on
the dewed camel-bush, starting the little
crested larks into song. But with it came
a strafing Messerschmitt. Half-asleep, I
rolled behind a sand hillock and cursed,
and remembered that this was El Ala-
mein, and saw that the first day was
come in glory and in transient fear.
The Barrage.
j N the late evening they came from
I the holes they had dug the night be-
fore. These holes had been dug cun-
ningly, just so narrow, just so deep,
covered with cane frames and old
groundsheets, and neatly camouflaged
with sand and odd bits of camel-bush.
The enemy had been in the air above
them all day. Now men came crawling
out of underground hideouts like fossick-
ing dung-beetles. They moved about
singly and in groups, talking quietly,
eating the hot stew cooked somewhere
in the rear and brought forward in hot-
boxes.
The undercurrent of talk was excite-
ment. For months they had waited
for this. Tonight the great barrage was
to go over, and behind it the infantry
would follow, and in the end those bit-
terly contested acres of ground in front
would be incontestably ours.
Dusk paled into faint starlight, and
now to the shadowy groups of men were
added the hard steel outlines of heavy
and medium tanks. Dust stirred up by
moving vehicles assailed their nostrils,
mixed with the smell of petrol and fumes
from hot, powerful engines. It was the
smell of preparation permeating the cool
night air and drifting over the flats to
the waiting gun-crews.
To the waiting men the air was super-
charged with an intense and painful ex-
pectancy. Never before had there been
gathered together such an accumulation
of guns and tanks and men, of strange
new weapons and devices for attack; it
seemed that the weight of material must
crush opposition beneath a rolling and
insurmountable tide.
They said “I wouldn’t be in Jerry’s
shoes tonight,” and “Did y’see the
guns? Hundreds of ’em, everywhere,”
and “They reckon the ’planes are coming
as soon as she starts.” There were
rumors repeated, and conjectures and
wild statements concerning strength and
disposition.
The intolerable hours of waiting passed,
and then, as if one controlling hand had
pulled one giant lanyard, all the guns
gathered on the flats and on the slopes
of the escarpment and the heavy guns
near the beach fired their first salvo.
Timed and controlled, they spewed
forth flame and steel, ringing the horizon
with white flashes and red in endless and
terrible repetition. Nearer at hand the
gun-crews were seen like men carven
in bronze against the sudden glare, each
man caught in the act of bending or
turning or walking or standing stolidly
beside the kicking gun.
Dust stirred up by the blast and by
enemy shells replying to the fire began to
drift across the flat, so that the great
flashes of the distant heavy guns revealed
a creeping pall of dust shot through with
flame and reft by the thunder of the
cannonade.
The barrage increased in intensity.
Mingled with the roar of the guns were
the high whine of shells pouring into
the enemy’s positions, and the swift
“whoosh” of returning shells, and the
crash of them as they burst upon the flat
and upon the escarpment behind. Like
the sullen surge of water on rock was
the muffled and continuous explosion of
high explosives behind the enemy wire.
Steel fragments sang in the air above
the waiting men. By-and-bye they could
hear nothing above the pounding of their
own hearts. At a given time they went
forward and fell upon the wire and went
through and beyond, and all the time
the barrage lengthened before them, leav-
ing in its wake a bloody and terrible
panorama of death.
Bombers, running a ceaseless shuttle
service, with load after load of heavy
bombs, droned overhead. The whole
world rocked in a spasm of frightfulness.
Towards morning the barrage slack-
ened and the sun rose haggardly in the
east, sore-eyed from the dust and sting-
ing smoke. The first waves of attack-
troops had long fired their success signals
and were bent on the task of consolidat-
ing ; men and vehicles were everywhere
on the flat, signallers were laying lines
to forward companies and stores were
being dumped in dispersed heaps. And
singing ears and a strange limp feeling
in brain and body reminded men that
the barrage had gone over.
Home-coming.
THIS is the dream come true. I walk
down the gangplank and off the troop-
ship, staggering a little under the weight
of kit that has been my wardrobe and
bathroom and bedroom for so long now.
Now is the moment when my foot is set
on Australian soil and my heart is full
of many things; I am saying to myself
“This is home. At last, at last.”
I feel that I must speak to someone,
say anything, just to see if my voice
sounds differently. Surely it must. I pass
a wharf policeman and say “How’re you
going, mate?” and the words come out
with a queer strangled sound, as if a hand
were at my throat.
I ease the aching weight from my
shoulders and stow my gear on the
luggage-racks. Someone says “There’s
some pies and coffee out here.” I look,
and sure enough there are. Crisp, brown-
topped pies and hot refreshing coffee,
served out by shyly excited girls.
How good it is to see the youngsters,
healthy, happy and drawling a shy greet-
ing to the exiles, “How are y’?” These
are a world apart from the kiddies we
have seen. Those sore-eyed babies and
dirty kids, thin, ragged, rickety, suffering
chronically from malnutrition and from
hereditary disease.
I gaze at the city. All the old familiar
landmarks are there; they have not
changed, but now I see them through dif-
ferent eyes, as if the gift of vision has
suddenly been given me, and as if all the
pre-war years were merely part of the
metamorphosis of living.
The train pulls out smoothly, inciting
the remark “Remember the Wog trains?
and we all laugh and wave to the women
crowding to the fence. A slim, blonde
woman jumps up and down, searching the
length of the train with eager eyes, and
all the time she is crying a name in high-
toned repetition. Near her is an old, old
woman leaning on a stick, and she is
silent with a weight of years and
memories. I think “the quick and the
dead” —and feel it a sardonic, sneer-
ing thought, and look back down the
train at the hard, happy faces of my
mates.
Now we are passing through the brown
countryside of an Australian summer. I
feast my eyes upon it. I taste it, smell it,
feel it, and all my starved Australian
pores are drinking greedily, as if their
thirst can never be assuaged.
A few sheep move across a sun-dried
pasture at the train’s approach. They
are in good condition for the time of the
year. I remark this to my opposite com-
panion, and immediately our tongues are
framing phrases half-forgotten. He was
a sheep man, and as he talks, fumbling
a little for the old idiom of the wide
sheep spaces, I am watching the landscape
and thinking of the wheat. I note a tniJr
stubble and automatically I see that!
must have lodged. Someone says bne
must have been a great season.”
A thin-faced warrior cannot conceal
his rising excitement. He lives down this
way and he can see his home, a Kindl\
old house set far back amongst pines anc.
gums. A woman is waving to the troops
from the house, and he leans farout
waves and cooees and shouts How ar
y’, Mum?” j ii r
We crowd to the windows and yell our-
selves hoarse, for this is the symbo
our home-coming. ,
After a while we sit down and wipe
our foreheads, and upon all our '
is a dawning knowledge and wonderu
We are home.


TREASURY ISLAND IDYLL.
“Stow it away, mates—here comes the old buzzard!”


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper
“Australia for the White Man”
Directors:
H. K. Prior J. E. Webb
P. H. Prior David Adams
HEAD OFFICE: 252 George Street. Sydney:
Box 2521 BB: ’Phone 87971.
Victoria: Newspaper House, 247-249 Collins
Street, Melbourne.
Queensland: 239 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
Westralia : 33 Barrack Street, Perth.
New Zealand: Nathan’s Buildings ( opp,
G.P.0.), Wellington.
London: 1 Hare Place. 47 Fleet Street.
London, E.C.4.
ONE WAR TO GO ON.
Mr. Churchill in his character of John
Bull eloquent has made such an impression
on this generation that he is sure of an
admiring audience throughout the demo-
cratic world whenever he addresses it,
and whatever he chooses to say. The
admiration with which he was listened to
at the beginning of last week was height-
ened by sympathy, for he had been seri-
ously ill, and only a man of immense
courage would have undertaken so exact-
ing an effort so soon. Now and then he
exhibited traces of weariness, but there
was no failing of eloquence, and, espe-
cially when developing his ideas of what
is necessary for post-war Britain, he said
fine things which have more than a local
application. For example; “We must
beware of trying to build up a society in
which nobody counts but the politician
or the official. Our people would be the
last to consent to government by bureau-
cracy. Freedom is their lifeblood.”
But the parts of the speech in which he
referred to the time it may take to beat
Hitler, and outlined his plans for the
series of operations, military, political
and humanitarian, which are to follow
that very desirable consummation, and
proceed simultaneously, were dreadfully
disappointing to Australians not so
dazzled by his great intellectual gifts and
personality as to become incapable of
thinking as Australians. “Speaking under
every reserve, and not attempting to pro-
phesy,” he suggested (“I can imagine ’)
that “some time next year —but it may
well be the year after —we might beat
Hitler, by which I mean beat him and
his powers of evil into death, dust and
ashes.”
And then we shall immediately proceed
to transport all the necessary additional
forces and apparatus to the other side of
the world, to punish the greedy and cruel
empire of Japan, to rescue China from her
long torment, to free our own territory and
that of our Dutch allies, and to drive the
Japanese menace for ever from Australian,
New Zealand and Indian shores. That will
be our first supreme task, and nothing must
lure us from it.
Even if tackled “immediately,” the
transfer of forces and apparatus would
take a considerable time. And they are
to form only part of the men and equip-
ment employed in the defeat of the Nazis
and their European allies:
There will certainly be large numbers of
British, and also (no doubt) United States,
soldiers whom it will not be physically pos-
sible to employ across the vast distances
and poor communications of the Japanese
war. There will certainly be large numbers
of men, not only abroad but at home, who
will have to be brought back to their
families and jobs or to other equally good
jobs after full provision has been made
for garrisoning the guilty countries
However vigorously the war against Japan
is prosecuted, there will certainly be a
partial demobilisation after the defeat of
Hitler, and this will raise most difficult
and intricate problems.
It will indeed, and one will concern the
selection of the soldiers, seamen and air-
men who, after five or six (or it may
be seven or eight) years of the German
war, are to go on fighting “on the other
side of the world” when men possibly
less tired and less deserving are back in
their homes and jobs, or “other equally
good jobs.” They will need to be quite
exceptional fellows, steeled against envy,
war-weariness, the pricking of hope de-
ferred and other human feelings.
Nor are these the only “tasks” that
Mr. Churchill projects, “While the war
against Japan will still be raging,” the
“three great victorious Powers” are “im-
mediately to begin” the formation of a
Council of Europe to settle the affairs
of that distracted continent, every part
of which, a few neutral countries ex-
cepted, will have suffered the horrors of
modern war, plus the barbarities which
the Nazis have perpetrated. “A stupen-
dous business,” said Mr. Churchill, and
stupendous it will be —more so than in
1919, when there were wars and civil
wars over at least two-thirds of Europe,
And “we shall also have the heavy task
of trying to avert widespread famine in
the ruined regions.” This will need ships
—perhaps more than may be conveniently
diverted from the prosecution of the war
against Japan. Meantime Britain is to
have a general election and the beginnings
of a Four Year Plan.
It seems an extraordinary programme
for a Government that will still have to
settle accounts with Japan, and even the
London “Times” seems doubtful on that
score. It notes, however, that Australian
newspapers accept every feature of it. So
does Mr. W. M. Hughes.
That accommodating gentleman, who
has led the U.A.P. for 18 months—at so
great a distance from his followers that he
couldn’t hear their requests for a party
meeting, though they caught up to him
last week —allows that “Mr, Churchill s
reference to the war in the Pacific has
evoked some criticism,” and that we
could “wish the forces necessary to defeat
Japan might be sent to us without delay.
But wishes, it seems, are idle: “We must
face facts the forces of the United
Nations are now extended to utter-
most in the other theatres of war.” It is
pertinent here to recall what Mr. Hughes
said when the Japs landed at Buna and
Gona. He was not sparing of criticism
then, being, in fact, white-hot with anger
at the “lamentable lack of vision, of ini-
tiative and of co-ordination of control
exhibited by “our military leaders. Our
policy,” he shouted, “is following blindly
the track which led to the downfall of
Malaya”—which was starved of ’planes,
though he didn’t say so.
Did those in control of our military de-
fences not know that Buna and Gona were
of strategic value? If they did, why did
they not occupy and defend them? Were
they not warned by their reconnaissance
’planes that the enemy convoy was
approaching? When they were informed
of the enemy’s landings, why did they not
immediately concentrate an air force of
overwhelming strength? Why was not a
powerful land force dispatched forthwith?
Can’t we beat the Japanese even though
we have superior land and air forces?
Sydney newspapers echoed and ampli-
fied this attack. On the anniversary of
General MacArthur’s arrival in Australia,
when the general spoke freely to war
correspondents, one of these papers
learned, as it reported next day, that
“Allied strategy conceived the occu-
pation of Buna, but our air strength at
the time was so weak that we had no
chance of stopping the Japs getting in,”
and that it was the enemy, not our “mili-
tary leaders,” who blundered. Trying to
“build up air strength at Buna without
adequate warning facilities,” he “lost more
than 100 ’planes on the ground” ; and,
failing to “realise that air power could
be used as it was used in Papua, he stayed
on at Buna while huge Allied ground
forces were flown across the mountains
and landed on air strips hewn out of the
jungle.” In the result the Jap force was
“annihilated.” But no frank admission
that he was wrong at every point has
come from Mr. Hughes, and the Govern-
ment and “our military leaders” are to
get no support from this captain of the
U.A.P. team for their efforts to secure
more American assistance, though,
according to the New York “Daily
News,” Generals Kenney and Sutherland,
sent to Washington by General Mac-
Arthur, are asking for “only one week’s
production of United States ’planes.”
It was suggested in the House that
Mr. Curtin should review the position in
the light of Mr. Churchill’s speech. He
replied, with obvious concern, that in
point of strategy the speech had changed
nothing, “Beat Hitler First” having be-
come “the accepted policy of the major
Powers”;
Although not comforting, in the circum-
stances, for countries such as China and
Australia, we must play our part in total
strategy, and fulfil the role assigned to us.
That means, whether we like it or not, that
we must essay a holding war against Japan
for some indefinite period which has every
indication of being protracted, bearing in
mind that the assistance given to us will
be measured by capacity to send ships
here.
The Prime Minister had been disturbed
during the week by reports that people
with money to burn were neglecting the
war loan while crowding into lottery
offices, racecourses and picture shows. He
made an urgent appeal for the practice
of thrift and for a greater concentration
on the war “in all departments of our
national life.” He should have gone
further and committed his Government
to drastic measures against waste and
work-stopping ; but in any case he is the
national leader, and the nation is bound
by every consideration of honor, duty and
self-interest in the highest form to sup-
port him to the limit. And that means,
among other things, filling war loans.
On the general subject of strategy the
Prime Minister might also have said more
had it been politic to say more. It might
have occurred to him to mention that
there was no naive disclosure of
British plans nor any counterpart of
“Beat Hitler First” in the last war.
Neither Mr. Asquith nor Mr. Lloyd
George nor Mr. Churchill himself
when he was at the Admiralty ever advo-
cated beating the Kaiser first and just
hanging on in the struggle with the
Sultan. Far from it.
There was no holding war against the
Turks. Britain attacked them in Meso-
potamia as soon as it could get an army
on the move in that country ; and before
Turkey had been a belligerent for six
months Mr. Churchill himself had
launched two great attempts to knock it
out, by forcing the passage of the Dar-
danelles with 16 battleships and by land-
ing an imperial army in Gallipoli—-
a fine strategical conception marred
by faulty execution, although it wasn't
the soldiers’ fault. And in the clos-
ing year, though the Germans nearly
reached the Channel coast and got
to the Marne again, Allenby was pro-
vided with forces and equipment which
enabled him to beat Turkey, whose
capitulation was swiftly followed by the
surrender of Bulgaria, the Austrian em-
pire and Germany. Yet Turkey was never
the danger to the Empire or any part of
it that Japan is. Not since Britons began
to push into the Seven Seas have they
had an enemy so strange and terrible as
this Asiatic Power which simultaneously
challenged the British and Dutch empires
and the United States, and which 16
months afterwards holds practically all
its prizes and trophies of victory, has had
the better of a second campaign in
Burma, and has not only maintained but
increased its threat to this white man’s
continent.
U.S. Republican reactions to Mr.
Churchill’s war prospectus, expressed in a
stinging article by David Lawrence, were
so unfavorable that Mr. Eden was moved
to assure “Congressional leaders” at “a
private luncheon” that Britain would
never let Australia and New Zealand
down nor fail to exact vengeance for
Singapore. “We will fight together,” he
said, “till the Japanese menace is wiped
from the face of the earth.” That is
better, though the Foreign Secretary’s
words do not cancel out the Prime Min-
ister’s words. Russian opinion was voiced
by the Soviet Ambassador at London:
Though we naturally turn our minds to
the future, we should not forget the
present. Our future is being forged now.
My country expects all of its Allies, espe-
cially Britain and America, also to do their
maximum in the nearest future to bring
this terrible war to an end We still
have a long and hard road to travel be-
fore the final goal is reached, and that
final goal must be the complete crushing
of Hitlerite Germany.
On the same day there came an an-
nouncement from Moscow (a Great Aus-
tralian Daily dismissed it in five lines)
that the Russo-Japanese fisheries agree-
ment had been renewed for another year.
This is a startling reaffirmation of the
very palpable fact that U.S.S.R. policy
puts the U.S.S.R. first. The plain matter-
of-fact conclusion is that the leaders of
the English-speaking democracies should
put the British Empire and the United
States first, and that Anglo-American
strategy should be guided by that prin-
ciple.
J. Bull Delivers.
With things not going so well for Russia
in the early spring fighting as they went
in the winter it seems significant that the
wild chorus of yelping at J. Bull for
allegedly “failing” that ally of his has
not so far been revived. The baton-
wielding for the chorus is done in Russia,
so the silence almost certainly means that
the rate of Allied Nations’ supplies to
Russia has not only been maintained but
increased. Not that this will bring a
word of gratitude from Corns, and fellow-
travellers if the position in Russia should
get any worse.
Nor is it only this fraternity which
overlooks opportunities to give an occa-
sional word of praise for the extraordi-
nary material help that J. Bull and Uncle
Sam have been able to extend to Russia,
apart altogether from the “second front”
in Africa and the “third front” or what-
ever it is against the Japs. There was
a singular opportunity for a meed of
praise-giving at the Red Army Day cele-
brations at Sydney Town Hall on Feb-
ruary 21. If any of the speakers gave
praise where it was due, except to Russia,
their remarks were not reported.
This failure by omission is pretty well
as bad as the former outright lying in-
dulged in by the usual interested parties
at the other Allied Nations’ —especially
J. Bull’s —expense. The lying at least
could be nailed; the silence is another
matter. Nailed over and over the lying
has been, which may be another reason
why the chorus of baseless allegations
died down. That chorus evidently wore
J.B.’s always somewhat obstinate patience
to a frazzle. Somebody on his behalf
appears to have seen its dangers, not only
to the Allied Nations’ unity essential to
winning but to steady Empire unity as
well. Hence something of an improve-
ment in J.B.’s propaganda, still rough
and ready compared with the countries
that have brought this sort of thing to
a fine art, but at least better than it used
to be.
On the score of help to Russia a steady
stream of additional details is being
issued. Australian newspapers receive
them, but few of the figures get into print.
Yet, apart from representing facts in
favor of J.B. and their publication there-
fore a service to the whole Empire at
war, they have fair news value on their
own legs. The latest facts and figures
issued in Australia are dated March 15,
1943, and it is stated that they refer to
goods delivered, not merely to goods sent.
In the 15 months between October,
1941, and December, 1942, Britain sent
to Russia 2974 tanks, mostly made in
Britain, the balance in Canada on British
War Office order. In the same period
Uncle Sam sent Russia 3200 tanks. So
in that 15 months Russia received from
these much criticised sources a total of
6174 tanks. By the middle of November,
1942, J.B. alone had sent Russia enough
equipment for 20 armored divisions, and
J.B. and Uncle Sam between them enough
for 32 armored divisions in tanks.
Also in that 15 months J.B. sent Russia
3080 aircraft. When the vicious propa-
ganda against J.B. on the score of failure
to help Russia was at its worst the true
position was that for every 100 ’planes
J.B. had promised Russia he was actually
sending 111. Uncle Sam over the same
stretch sent about 2600 ’planes: total,
5600-odd ’planes delivered to help the
Russians, and that’s a tidy lot of ’planes.
At no time since the war started has
J.B. had any rubber to spare, yet he
denied himself to send Russia 50,000
tons of the precious stuff. Also, though
Russia is one of the great oil countries,
J.B. sent to Russia 42,000 tons of aviation
spirit and 66,000 tons of fuel oil, figures
that should not be hastily confused with
gallons. Within one week of the Ger-
man invasion of Russia J.B. had 1,000,000
pairs of boots shipped and subsequently
delivered to Russia. Russia asked for
3.000. pairs altogether; J. 8., using
40.000 tons of shipping space for this
alone, delivered them by April, 1942.
Also, in one four-day period J.B.’s Quar-
termaster-General’s Department baled,
packed and shipped enough overcoat
cloth for Russian soldiers to stretch from
the White Sea to the Black Sea.
The most extraordinary figures so far
given out are 3,000,000 tons of medical
supplies sent to Russia by J.B. When
some enthusiasts in these parts were get-
ting lavish publicity on the strength of
their collections for an ambulance for
Russia J.B. was silently sending along
1.500.000 surgical instruments, over
1.000. hospital garments, 500,000 hos-
pital blankets, 150 tons of drugs and 87
X-ray units. At the same time the in-
habitants of J.B.’s home estate, who have
been very short of sugar since the war
started, went without a promised ration
increase so that as much as could be
raked up could go to Russia. Jointly
with Uncle Sam J.B. has sent Russia
1.000. tons of sugar, as well as
2.500.000 tons of wheat.
None of all this and the other supplies
sent would ever have got through without
J.B.’s Navy, which, with J.B.’s merchant
service, has been almost entirely respon-
sible for the transport of all supplies to
Russia. As many as 75 British warships
have been used to escort one convoy, and
between the date Hitler invaded Russia
and the end of last year 19 great convoys
had arrived at Murmansk. Many ships
laden with war materials did not arrive;
they went down, with many more men.
Today, in addition to goods still going in
such convoys, vast supplies are pouring up
through the Persian Gulf route and over-
land across Persia. Railways have been
built for this special purpose by British
engineers, and large numbers of loco-
motives and railway trucks have been
shipped there from Britain to do the
carrying.
Uncle Sam, for his part, has sent along,
as well as the tanks, ’planes and food
supplies, such other astronomical items
as 81,000 trucks, jeeps and other motor
vehicles. Altogether the supplies to
Russia from these sources have been so
enormous that they must have been in-
dispensable to the Russians in the great
fight they have put up and are still put-
ting up. Even so, if the Russians had
not been vastly better prepared for war
than others —including Hitler and co.
imagined; if the Russians had been
influenced by the peace-everlasting cranks
who so dangerously influenced Britain,
the rest of the Empire and the U.S.A.,
Russia would certainly have been over-
run before any of the help got through.
Others may fail to profit by the obvious
logic of this, but it is most unlikely that
the Russians ever will. Meanwhile, it
seems very likely that if the material help
given by J.B. and others had not been
available to back up the Russians’ own
preparations and their determined fight-
ing Hitler might well by now have been
fouling Moscow with his personal pres-
ence. Corns, and the curious assortment
of gaitered and other chirpers who keep
their company should be duly grateW
to both J.B. and Uncle Sam for then
vital contributions towards averting hat
but gratitude is the last virtue to look
for in Corns., and their assorted leash
mates seem pretty deficient in i, °


PLAIN ENGLISH
For Australians Only.
The Senate continues to embarrass and
annoy the Government, Last week its
Digger Senators got a soldier-preference
clause added to the Repatriation Bill, a
proceeding which obliged the Govern-
ment to produce a sort-of-a-kind of pref-
erence on its own account. And the
Digger Senators and their Opposition
colleagues jibbed at extending the
franchise to uniformed lads and lasses in
the 18-20 age group, the vast majority
of whom are not at battle stations.
There followed howls of rage and
threats of an election which left the
Opposition Senators unmoved. When the
Senate meets again they should initiate
an alteration of the electoral law on their
own account.
Communists recently gathered in Syd-
ney for a conference of what they call
their party. After screeching for a Second
Front in Europe Now and denouncing
“the Fascist traitor” Michailovich and
the set-up in North Africa, the party de-
cided to put up 16 candidates for the
Commonwealth election.
This is where the Senate should come
in. All Communist parties in English-
speaking countries are puppets of the
Communist International, which carries
on under the sheltering wing of a foreign
Power. The secretary of the Communist
International is a Bulgarian named Dimi-
trov, and during the period when the
Communist International was against the
“imperialist” war the show in Australia
reprinted his anti - “imperialist” - war
propaganda and slavishly followed his in-
structions. It also follows the instruc-
tions of the secretary of the Communist
party in the foreign country, who is the
foreign country’s ruler. To the “Aus-
tralian” party Australia counts for no-
thing, the foreign country for everything.
By virtue of Section 44 of the Com-
monwealth Constitution, “Any person
who is under any acknowledgment of
allegiance, obedience or adherence to a
foreign Power, or is a subject or a citi-
zen or entitled to the rights or privi-
leges of a subject or a citizen of a foreign
Power.... shall be incapable of being
chosen or of sitting as a Senator or a
member of the House.”
There should be no place in the Aus-
tralian Parliament for any person who
is not loyal through and through to Aus-
tralia and its King. In the terms of Sec-
tion 44 the Senate should interpose a
legal barrier between Parliament and
members of a party which proclaims
(rule 10) that it is “affiliated to the
Communist International,” leaving Dimi-
trov’s instruments to hurdle it —if they
can.
Killing It.
Mr. Foster, chairman of Mr. Ward’s
Women’s Employment Board, said it
was “a tragedy that the work of this
board has been frustrated by the Senate.”
Said frustration consisted in a legitimate
exercise of Senate power, the dis-
allowance of regulations authorising the
board to make a common rule ; and the
Government has countered with other
regulations. The real tragedy lies in
this extraordinary board having been set
up at all.
Its operations have been the subject
of scathing comments, not only in Par-
liament and in places frequented by Aus-
tralians guilty of the unpardonable crime
of establishing industries and paying good
wages, but in the Commonwealth Arbi-
tration Court by Judge O’Mara. Judge
O’Mara’s remarks were such as any man
in his position had a right to make;
nevertheless his “removal from the
Bench” was “demanded” at the week-end
by a conference of 73 (!) A.C.T.U.'
unions, which was addressed by Mr.
Ward.
Over many years the Judges of this
court have fixed wages for men on the
basic needs of an average family, and for
women at 54 p.c. of the male rate, plus
in each case margins for skill. Coming in
with a rush Mr. Ward’s board has
granted women equal wages with men in
some cases, 90 p.c. of the male rate in
other cases, and 60 p.c. of that rate in
others again. Effects in the metal trades
are that experienced female hands are
getting £3 12s. a week and comparative
newcomers £4 18s., and that wage-payers
have been served with huge demands for
back pay, chargeable in most cases to the
taxpayers. Many of the women con-
cerned have been gathered into unions
controlled by Communists or fellow-
travellers, and it looks as if they will
emulate the N.S.W. coalminers, now
so completely out of hand that they are
striking in large numbers against the
imposition of penalties on individual
strikers.
The authority of the Commonwealth
Arbitration Court has been further weak-
ened by other improvisations. Mr. Ward
set up a Harvest Work Board on which
farmers were in a minority. This board
fixed pay on a scale so high that, where
yields were unsatisfactory, the man who
drew the wages got more out of the crop
than the man who paid them. Previously
the Allied Works Council had made an
arrangement with N.S.W. union bosses
which, according to a rejoicing news-
paper, gave the union bosses nearly every-
thing they asked for. Difficulties arose,
and the Arbitration Court was asked for
another award, which it issued. There fol-
lowed hoarse cries of dissatisfaction,
mingled with the usual threats of strike.
About this time the N.S.W. Labor
Government decided to get rid of the
State Industrial Commission, an original
member of which, though able as well as
experienced, is anathema to union bosses.
The measure in which the oracle is being
worked has been described by the Council
of the Bar Association as “striking at
security of tenure, the true safeguard
of the independence of the judiciary,”
It cancels the contracts of the present
Judges, and gives them no guarantee of
appointment to another Commission, or
to the Supreme Court. And it grants
preference to advocates, who, not being
Supreme Court practitioners, “cannot be
disciplined if guilty of misconduct.”
Labor used to claim that the industrial-
arbitration system was its own special
creation. If the claim may be conceded
it is destroying its own child.
Food and Fallacies.
If it does nothing else, the food position
in this country should prove to the Gov-
ernment at Canberra that neither human
needs nor nature’s moods can be esti-
mated, programmed or controlled by
rules based on the findings of statisticians
or economists.
In all its attemps to handle the food
of a nation at war, the Government has
depended upon the academic logic of the
economist or rule-bound civil servant.
Whether this is because Labor, being
somewhat amateurish at government,
doesn’t trust its own commonsense and
therefore regards the man with a degree
with a sort of reverence or whether it's
simply that Utopians can’t see practical
realities is beside the point. The fact is
that the food position grows worse.
It’s all very fine to say that so many
people need so much butter, which can
be produced by so many farmers and
sold at such and such a price, and to tell
Man-power and other departments to go
ahead on that basis. It doesn’t work out
that way, because there have to be rain
at certain times and stored feed at other
times and continuous production by cows
which have to stay healthy to do it.
Moreover, the workers who produce the
butter may not go on producing it. They
may, for instance, walk off the farm and
work shorter hours for higher wages in
war factories. Thus nature and the
human element, both unpredictable and
uncontrollable, upset all the calculations
of experts.
When, in addition, almost every single
foodstuff comes under the control of a
different authority, the confusion becomes
worse confounded and the nation finds
itself, as today, short of things which, in
normal times, it exports in large quanti-
ties. There is no hope of the position
ever improving until a single commodity
control is established, with the right to
give the nation’s food a high priority
and to use the practical experience of
those who’ve made a business of food
production and distribution.
Americans on Leave.
The position in brief:
A suggestion that the renowned hospitality
of the bush should be extended to American
service men on leave was welcomed on both
sides. One Australian went so far as to travel
hundreds of miles from his outback property
to tell The Bulletin that, though he’d written
(Continued on page 8.)
THANKSGIVING SERVICE.
(Being Another Day in the Life of the Allied Works Council.)
“Clerical malcontents and journalistic muckrakers....The A.W.C. and its chief executive officers have come through the ordeal of the Brown inquiry with credit."
"S. M. Herald."


to authorities offering to take Americans, he d
had no reply. „ , _ - ,
A trouble is that most of the offers so tar
received by U.S. Headquarters are from places
too far distant and with too few trains con-
necting. Some come from 500 to 750 miles out,
which would mean long night journeys with-
out sleepers for men who have only very limited
Men most agreeable to accept such offers
are probably convalescents, and long journeys
would offset the benefits of, say, seven days
on a property. Most acceptable from the point
of view of U.S. troops in N.S.W. would be
offers from within about 200 miles from Sydney,
or ditto Katoomba, where there s a hospital.
Men from Sydney can conveniently get to sucn
places as Parkes, Forbes, Murrumburrah, Nowra
Tamworth, Gloucester, but such places as
Tumut, Tumbarumba, Tambar Springs, Mut-
tama and so forth are not so easy to get ■
Men from Katoomba would be best sened as
convalescents, by such districts as Bathurst,
Orange, Molong, Parkes, Wellington, Dube
and so on. .... „„
Also, it would help if those willing to co-
operate would mention how many they couia
take, and give some brief description of t
property —acreage and whether they 8°
sheep, cattle, horses, etc. U.S Headquarter
writes to The Bulletin that the: men
expect special attention, and will be foun
ing to help in the chores, and that a
valescents would be men who would n
needing any medical attention or special care.
POLITICAL POINTS
With Wilson, the only serving Sena-
tor, back and MacDonald over from
Westraiia by ’plane, the Opposition
Senators gave the Government more
headaches last week, and once more
they had reason on their side. At Brand’s
instance, a soldier-preference clause was
included in the Repatriation Bill. On
McLeay’s motion discussion of the meas-
ure extending the Federal franchise to
uniformed persons of 18 to 20 was post-
poned till April 29, when, according to
present intentions, Parliament will be out
of action again. “Contemptuous treat-
ment!” barked Curtin —“a clear case of
19 men trying to control 110.” But it
is precisely what Labor would do if
Labor had a majority in the Senate and
a non-Labor Government were in office.
Though the U.A.P.’s feeling for Billy
resembles that of dutiful children for a
doting grandfather, the old ’un’s persis-
tent refusal to summon a party meeting
drove 19 of his followers at Canbena
to send him a round robin requesting
one, and he hastened to comply. Beck,
from Hobart,. proposed that party posi-
tions should be put to the vote. Aspirants
being invisible, the proposal was rejected
by 24 to 15. When last seen and heard
Billy was crowing and preening his few
remaining feathers.
“This country,” A. G. Cameron said,
Holt dissenting, “is cursed with a Gov-
ernment that will not govern and an
Opposition that will not oppose.” On
the other hand, it rejoices in Opposition
PRAMBERRA.
From the debate on the Maternity Allowance Bill:-
Mr. Leckie: I should not object to this expenditure if it were necessary, but it is not. It will not assist the birth-rate in any way.
Mr. Collings: Doesn’t the Senator agree that poverty keeps the birth-rate down?
Mr. Leckie: No.
Mr. Collings: Doesn’t the Senator realise that the birth-rate in Canberra is higher than anywhere else in Australia because the people
of this city have economic security?
Mr. Leckie: I know why the birth-rate is higher in Canberra: they have nothing else to do. —Senate report.
papers which reserve their slings and
arrows for Oppositionists, chiefly Cam-
eron and Menzies. They saw Bob’s hand
in the manoeuvres which preceded the
party meeting that Hughes had to call
at long last. In point of fact, Bob had
nothing to do with them, and was not a
candidate for Billy’s job.
The Senate’s soldier-preference addi-
tion to the Repatriation Bill led to the
sorely embarrassed Government, whose
fear of union bosses and mobs grows,
producing a bill providing for 50-50
preference or something like that in a
restricted field. Flatly condemning it,
Menzies moved that the bill should be
withdrawn and redrafted so as to provide
for preference to service men in a wider
field. “Preference,” he said, “should be
given because the man who fights re-
turns with less skill in a trade than the
man who stays at home—because his
value in employability is less.” And “if
the Commonwealth can give preference
to unionists it can give preference to
returned service men.” Nineteen Minis-
ters spent the week-end trying to think
up answers.
The Commonwealth Auditor-General
has grimly noted that Victorian wharf-
laborers were paid £l2 10s. a day for a
salvage job on a piled-up vessel. Their
fellow-wharfies in Sydney, many of whom
eschew toil if they can dodge it, refused
to accept engagements at the beginning
of the week. Not because they are ask-
ing for £l2 10s. a day, but because they
object to a gang system designed to
accelerate loading and unloading at a
time when every hour is precious. It is
the work of the Stevedoring Commission,
and its attempted introduction was pre-
ceded by a few pertinent remarks by the
chairman, Judge Piper, who said “an
incalculable number of man-hours is lost
and vital ships are detained unneces-
sarily,” although waterside labor is far
in excess of port needs. One published
“defence” of the holdup is “Didn’t we
refuse to load scrap-iron for Japan?”
Queensland State Labor went to the
opening of the Brisbane Parliament with
sighs of relief, its F. D. Graham having
scraped home in Mackay, Forgan Smith’s
electorate for 28 years. But Federal
Labor’s thoughts are gloomy, for when
7538 votes had been counted Graham’s
share was a mere 2885. After the loss
of two Labor seats to the Barnes
brothers Caucus worked the first-past-the-
post oracle, and that saved Graham. But
the Official Labor candidate dropped
3000-odd votes, and there is no first-past-
the-post at Commonwealth elections.
At least one new order has arrived;
Men’s, youths’ and boys’ jackets may now
have double-breasted fronts With double-
breasted lapels, with not more than four
outside buttons and one inside button;
men’s, youths’ and boys’ jackets may have
facings exceeding four inches and three-and-
a-half inches respectively from top button-
hole to bottom of jacket.
Man-power is to call up Class 10 so as
to obtain the necessary 4530| inspectors
to police the new order. Think of the
effect on the war effort if somebody had
two inside buttons!
“Pitt St.”: Pressmen being somehow
ready with reporters and cameramen,
Man-power led a cohort into the Sydney
fish market, barred all egress and called
for identification cards. It had all the
elements of a round-up in an occupied
country. The fish position being what it
is, it seemed a funny place to pick for a
raid. I’m not familiar with the working of
Man-power minds ; but it appears to me
that a better haul could be expected from
a similar raid on the Government lot’ry
office, any racecourse, any bar-room on
a raceless Saturday or a Communist rally.
Possible that Sydney will have another
bakers’ strike at Easter unless the Gov-
ernment releases enough stamps to put
the crosses on hot cross buns at the rate
of five an hour flat.
The McKells, who have fallen into the
habit of dropping things, have dropped
their plan for appointing four more Rail-
way Commissioners, with personal staffs,
it having been tartly pointed out that,
since they were always bragging about
the great and successful work Harti-
gan was doing, it would be inconsistent
to swamp him. However, there is to be
a bill to bring the “present Commissioner
under Ministerial control,” whatever that
may mean. The Minister is O’Sullivan,
and his job is such a sinecure that he can’t
indulge his propensity for meddling.
Sad is the plight of Albany, from
which the Anzacs set out on their im-
mortal adventure on November 1, 1914 —
from the port itself in 36 troopships,
escorted by three cruisers. Nowadays
cargoes for Albany are unshipped at the
artificial harbor of Fremantle and railed
all the way to the natural harbor. The
local member and Watts have protested
to the Perth Government, but the reply
was that the Perth Government could do
nothing, nothing being its usual gift to
Albany, The neglect of King George’s
Sound since the last war has been a.
tragedy for Australia. After this war, it
things are rightly ordered, Albany will
become the centre of a thriving indus-
trial and hinterland population.
The Corns, threaten to run 16 or 17
candidates at the Commonwealth elec-
tion, Hughes and Menzies are among
the members to be opposed, lost deposits
signifying nothing in such cases (‘ the
party” seems to have plenty of money),
but Archie Cameron is not on the list.
Yet 10 days before the Corns, chose their
candidates Cameron recalled in the House
that he had “had the pleasure of signing
the warrant for the suppression of the
Communist ‘party.’ ” Instead of boiling
over, the “party” must have had a rush
of ice to the feet.
Breeziest of New York newspapers, the
“Daily News” speculated on what will
happen if the Russians reach Berlin first.
In that case Mr. Stalin will have the
first voice in the dictation of the terms.
We have an idea that he won’t provide an-
other buffer State between himself and
Germany, because the buffer States didn’t
buff very well in this war Let us hope
that when Germany is smashed, Mr. Stalin
will see fit to loan us some Siberian real
estate on which to build air bases for
bomber drives against the Japanese home-
land. Let us hope, too, that before we
get around to beating Japan the Japs, will
not grab Russia’s Maritime Provinces for
themselves, thus depriving us of those
potential air-base sites.
There is no harm in hoping. It is one
of those privileges which cost nothing.
According to a Sunday paper which
seems to get preference in the matter of
Communist news, many inter-State dele-
gates to the Commos’ conference were
provided with “rail priorities.” These are
denied to wives of service men wishing
to spend a few days with husbands whom
they may never see again, and if they
get the “priorities” by fibbing they are
fined.
N, S. Wales has 15 State Ministers,
whose salaries amount to £23,420,
together with a Speaker at £1675,
a Chairman of Committees at £1155,
an Opposition leader at £1125 and
74 other Assemblymen at £875. For
Ministers there are cars, and for all hands
free passes on the State Government rail-
ways and tramways, the use of a club
and library and a stamp allowance of
£3O p.a. Had breadless people had the
ordering of things during the Sydney
bakers’ strike, they would have paid these
worthies in used stamps.
Essay in the style of The Egoist, by
George Meredith:
The position that I put to the Australian
people is this 1 pointed out Japan was
banking on the fact....l pointed out that
Japan would gamble I said that Japan
would gamble on friction... .That is why
I have tried to impress on the Govern-
ment of the people that the war against
Japan must be an American war... .1 have
written this over and over again.... I have
criticised over and over again the atti-
tude of asking America to come and help
us fight Japan.
Author? J. T. Lang, of Why I Fight
celebrity.
Two of the A-Senators are expected
to have a rough passage in the N.S.W.
ballot for Labor candidates —Amour and
Arthur. Amour is in bad with followers
of the State A.L.P. executive because he
was against Curtin’s militia-service plan,
but he didn’t push his opposition to the
extent of voting against it in the Senate,
and the executive may not have so many
followers as it thinks; in any case
Amour is a returned soldier. Arthur has
no following in particular and he dis-
putes with Darcey the distinction of being
the Senate’s prize bore, his obsession
being that there is flow oil all over the
place and that a foul conspiracy pre-
vented one Steinbockel, an American,
from finding it in vast quantities.
Westralian farmers are short of super,
(and they can’t grow wheat without it),
short of netting and poison for rabbits,
short of farm labor, short of funds—
since they had to pay whopping harvest
wages fixed by one of Ward’s boards, in
many cases out of the proceeds of poor
crops—and short of temper when they
consider what Ward said about farmers
in general.
They are always talking about their
poverty-stricken condition, yet whenever
one visits a country show or race meeting
one cannot get near the entrance gates be-
cause of their cars.
Curtin must be aware of these facts and
other shortcomings. So he doesn’t want
an early election.
Always kind to Labor Governments,
even when it has to scold them, Mel-
bourne “Age” complimented the Curtin
Government on having established “an
all-time record for the 42 years of Fed-
eration—s 29 days of office” (that was on
March 20) “without a change in person-
nel or portfolio”:
The previous record was held by the
second Fisher Government, which was
sworn in on April 29, 1910, and in which
the first change occurred after 528 days,
as the result of the death of a Minister.
Batchelor was the Minister, and, frugality
being the rule in those days, he had only
nine colleagues. There are now 19 Min-
isters, The really remarkable thing is
that Curtin, mild and tolerant as he is,
should have stood half a dozen of his
crowd for 18 months without imploring
Caucus to give him replacements.
Writing—very ably—on the Jewish
question in the Leftist N.Y. “Nation,”
Dr. Bernstein, a leading American Jew,
gives a mournful account of “the national
project at Biro-Bidjan which the Soviets
established for the Jews.” He says “they
steadily refuse to admit non-Russian
Jews to it,” and Russian Jews keep away
from the place when they don’t steal
away.
After six years of energetic promotion
by the Government, only 19,635 Jews had
settled in this Siberian outpost. Subse-
quently it was found that 11,450, or 58.4
per cent., had departed from the colony.
In the same melancholy spirit, Dr. Bern-
stein quotes a remark of “the Australian
delegate at the Evian Inter-Governmental
Refugee Conference” when this “vast,
sparsely-populated continent” was “sug-
gested as a haven for Jews”: “Gentle-
men, we in Australia • have no racial
problem, thank God; and we do not
intend to have one started.”
One of several bills before Congress
is aimed at prohibiting labor-unions from
making campaign contributions to poli-
tical parties. Others are designed to out-
law strikes in war industries and “to
break up the racket of the so-called
‘feather-bed regulations’ under which
two men are required to do the work of
one.” It is suggested also that “the col-
lection of exorbitant initiation fees, the
arrogant dogma of the labor boss that
an American citizen cannot serve the
Federal Union unless he first pays tribute
to a labor-union,” is ripe for legislative
destruction. In all which there is a very
familiar ring.
From “0.T.”:
All the chatter and side-stepping at Can-
berrra over the preference-to-fighters clauses
in the Public Service Bill seems a terrible waste.
Aren’t we to get a new order after the war
in which everybody will be sitting pretty and
all hands will have plenty of work at high
wages, with free beer every morning and favor-
ites guaranteed to win? Why should there
be any talk of preferences? In a Utopia it’s
everything for every man or every man for
everything or something. Forward, Mr. Ward!


in
c
“This Will be a Darning Needle Year”
—says the Prime Minister.
A stitch in time saves nine. An occasional call on your Exide Dealer will keep your
battery up to the mark. When replacement is needed remember . . .
BATTERIES
Still Keep Going When the Rest Have Stopped
Let this be Your
Wartime Slogan.
PERSONAL ITEMS
Tasmania’s Governor Ernest Clark is
hot on the heels of the island’s long-Gov-
ernorship record. He’s been there since
1933, and has just had his term extended
for another year from next August. The
record is 12 years, put up by Col. George
Arthur from 1824 to 1836. The present
incumbent is heading for his 79th mile-
stone and can look back on a busy life.
Called to the Bar in ’94, he was on loan
to the South African Government in the
reconstruction period after the Boer War,
later held responsible positions in Irish
administration and was in Australia with
the Economic Delegation in 1928-29.
He’s been a director of several large
London companies.
When A. R. Cutler, V.C., lately re-
signed the N. S. Wales R.S.L. secretary-
ship, it was suggested that he had poli-
tical intentions. If he has they must wait.
What actually enforced his resignation
was ill-health. In winning his V.C. he
lost a leg, and his health has suffered
through the long hours and heavy work
of the R.S.L. job, which, in his brief
tenure, he did extra well. The league will
be lucky if it gets another with the vigor
the lofty artillery lieut. put into it. 'lnis
week Cutler had to go into hospital for
an indefinite period. A great pity, be-
cause, apart from personal considerations,
Canberra as well as the league could do
with plenty like him.
As a recent caricature of him on this
page indicated, Air-Commodore F. W. F.
Lukis, of South Yarra (Vic.), who col-
lected a military division C.B.E. in last
week’s awards, must possess just about
the noblest crop of nose-warming herb-
age in the R.A.A.F., and for the
R.A.A.F. that’s saying something. Ac-
cording to one sergeant-observer, com-
petition in this line is keener in Mel-
bourne than anywhere else. A Sydney-
sider, the s.-o. returned from Melbourne
with a fair crop of his own. Even so,
he said he’d had it clipped to conform
with the more subdued Sydney standard.
He couldn’t say exactly why they culti-
vated ’em so lush in Melbourne, but
generously scouted the idea that it might
be for camouflage and thought it might
be because Melbourne is colder than
Sydney.
The 9th Divvy got back without loss
of one man on the home trip, but this
clean sheet might have had one mark on
it but for a bit of prompt action by
Major-General H. W. Lloyd, the new
Adjutant-General, and Commander F. K.
Baxter, of the R.A.N. On arrival in an
Australian port a Digger fell overboard
and was in a bad way when Lloyd and
Baxter, who had promptly requisitioned
a launch, pulled him out. They had to
bring him to per artificial respiration.
Major Skinner, M.C., now with the
N.Z. forces in the Middle East, has been
selected to fill the vacancy in the M.L.
Cabinet caused by Frank Langstone’s
resignation. Major Skinner (43), edu-
cated in Auckland, is a carpenter. He
worked on the Waitaki hydro dam be-
fore capturing the Motueka seat in 1938.
The British Ministry of Information hav-
ing asked for a delegate to go to England
and speak on M.L.’s war effort at home
and abroad, the M.L. Government has
chosen Major Skinner to do the job
before coming back to take over his
Cabinet post.
An Australian, Lieut.-Col. Donald
Matheson, has received the American
D.S.C. “for extraordinary heroism on
Gaudalcanal.” In peace-time he was
mine-inspecting in W.A., and already
held the M.C. and M.M., won in the
A.I.F. His job on Gaudalcanal was to
lead a patrol over a hazardous range,
passing through enemy lines and gaining
valuable information which Uncle Sam’s
troops put to good use.
Lieut.-Commander John Mould, part-
ner with his father in the Mould and
Mould architect firm of Sydney, has had
the George Cross added to the George
Medal he won a little time back. New-
castle-on-Tyne was the original habitat
of the younger Mould, but he came to
Sydney as a two-year-old. The King
personally handed him his latest decora-
tion.
P. R. Sutherland, past president and
foundation member of Melbourne Scots
(his passing was recorded in B. 10 /3 / ’43),
linked back to Napoleon’s wars through
his soldier father. The fighting Suther-
land was a redcoat at Quatre-Bras, where
he was wounded. Anyone who works
it out that this would make the fighting
Sutherland round about 80 when the Mel-
bourne Sutherland was born will be right.
Chairman Col. William Wood and the
board of management of the War Vet-
erans’ Home, Legacy Park, Narrabeen
(N.S.W.), received £9OOO from the Wool
Trade War Fund for building extensions
now not far off being finished. The
same source of supply now expects to
be able to finance all extensions neces-
sary, adding up to £16,000. Some of the
needed funds will be raised by auction-
ing a bale of wool in Sydney on April 30,
and it’s expected the new additions will
be ready for opening on Anzac Day.
Old Diggers, with a sprinkling of present-
war Diggers convalescing there, do their
bit towards keeping the place shipshape,
the vegetables growing, the cows in good
nick and the Home generally one of the
finest of institutions. It runs to billiards
and suchlike for the chaps, and is now
getting a bowling green, provided for by
the N.S.W. Bowling Association (presi-
dent, P. W. Pidgeon).
Official war photographer Damien
Parer can stand as a current example of
the occasion producing the man. Since
he came back from the Middle East
(Greece and first and second Libyan cam-
paigns) he has done as fine work in film
photography up north as Frank Hurley
did in still photography with the original
Diggers. Parer’s “Kokoda Trail” film,
which impresses everyone who sees it as
an extraordinary war document, so im-
pressed American Academy authorities
that they gave it their special award, in
the same issue in which “Mrs. Miniver”
won the award for the best American
film and Noel Coward’s “In Which We
Serve” collected as the best foreign film.
Parer spoke the commentary for his
DAMIEN PARER.
“Kokoda Trail” film himself, and made
such a first-rate job of that, too, that he
should have also done the commentary
for his later “Bismarck Sea Battle” film,
one concern’s commentary for which is
a pain in the ear. Cousin of airman Ray
Parer, Damien is a Malvern, Melbourne,
native.
Once upon a very long time ago
Johnny Locke, of Mount Gambier (S.A.),
was a young shaver dodging about the
pub his dad kept at Port McDonnell,
with Dingley Dell, poet Gordon’s home,
a couple of miles away. Young Locke
on his pony often accompanied the bard
out to Dingley Dell, and must be one of
the very few remaining personal links
with Gordon. Locke lately took the
90th hurdle in his stride.
Having a well-earned break in Adel-
aide, Flight-Lieut. John Reynolds Cock,
D.F.C., has been five years in England,
and with the R.A.F. has 10 German
’planes shot down and six others dam-
aged to his credit. He got seven of the
FLIGHT-LIEUT. COCK, D.F.C.
10 in the Battle of Britain. Now 25, he
learned to swim when he was three, and
just as well —in helping to give the Luft-
waffe its worst pasting he once had to
bale out and, lobbing in the Channel,
had to swim a mile to safety. He was
for about nine months with a fighter
squadron in France, and has the tidy
tally of 400 operational hours to his
credit. For the past year he’s been train-
ing fighter pilots in Britain and Scotland.
He first took to wings with the S.A.
Aero Club when he was 17. The R.A.F.
has loaned him to the R.A.A.F.
Frank Gibson Collins, now an
R.A.A.F. sergeant, often piloted the ball
through the sticks when playing for Rail-
ways in Westralian goldfields football.
Now he helps to pilot war leaders about
the world. He was the flight engineer on
the ’plane that flew Air Chief-Marshal
Tedder, General Alexander and their
staffs to the Roosevelt-Churchill Casa-
blanca conference. After the conference
they flew General de Gaulle to London.
Collins, a Kalgoorlie fitter, worked on
Great Boulder. He joined the R.A.A.F.
in 1940, and was on service in the Middle
East when the Casablanca job arrived.
“Lifeline,” described as an “ultra-
masculine super-he-mannish” play, show-
ing at the Duchess Theatre, London, has
as its part-author Barbara Toy, daughter
of former Bulletin journalist Bert Toy,
who edited the “Woman’s Mirror” for
some years from its inception, with
another daughter, Sadie, as the original
Sister Sadie. Barbara, who married and
went overseas, was never any more
“ultra-masculine” than her Christian
name. The play must be something out
of the way —American and Russian in-
terests and the 8.8. C. are all after it,
though what the 8.8. C. would do with
anything “he-mannish” is hard to
imagine.
lan Audley James Blyth, a medico in
Athenry, Galway (Ireland), who suc-
ceeds the late Baron Blyth, attended Wai-
taki Boys’ High School (M.L.) in 1922-
24. He footed the Inky Way on the
“Southland News” (Invercargill) and
married the new Lady Blyth there, where
she was nursing at the hospital. She
had come out with her parents from Eng-
land in 1926, and her parents still live in
Wellington. When the Blyths, who lived
in Auckland for many years, returned to
England, lan changed over to medicine.
First three chiefs of the N.S.W. rail-
ways, Mann, Ward and Martindale, were
soldiers. Of the remainder, Rae, Johnson
(last of the importations) and Fraser were
engineers; three others, Eddy, Harper
and Goode, were traffic men. Goodchap
and Oliver were transferred from other
Government departments to run the rail-
ways, Cleary was a businessman brought
from outside the service, and Hartigan,
present holder, an accountant. The
second Fraser regime was the only 100-
per-cent.-engineers board. Himself a
C. Fraser had as assistants Brain and
Forster, electrical and mechanical experts
respectively. In the 88 years of Railways
no politician has been head of the ad-
ministration, though a couple have been
among the “offsiders.”
The 74 entries for this year’s Crouch
Memorial Prize of £lOO at Ballarat Art
Gallery included a landscape by Murray
Griffin, the Australian war artist now
p.o.w. in Malaya. Daryl Lindsay awarded
the prize to some flowers by Francis
Roy Thompson, of Melbourne. Thomp-
son earned the money for his art educa-
tion under Bernard Hall by painting
houses at Mansfield, saving enough to
pay for a year or two in Europe studying
the Old Masters.
Warrant-officer Harry Grover carries
on the journalistic traditions of his
dad Monty. Back with the 9th
Divvy from the Middle East, Harry
there followed the fortunes of the
“A.I.F. News” from Palestine to Egypt
and the Western Desert. As a junior
reporter he helped his father officiate at
the birth of Melb. “Sun-Pictorial”' and
“Evening Sun.” Sister Dolly, whose hus-
band is away with the fighting services,
is running the Cobden (Vic.) paper.
M.L. athletes who have distinguished
themselves in the present war include
Lieut. - Commander Gordon Bridson,
D. of Auckland, awarded the Ameri-
can Navy Cross for his part in an action
between M.L. naval forces and a Jap
submarine. A few years back Bridson
made a clean sweep of all M.L. national
swimming titles from a hundred yards
to a mile. He represented M.L. with
success at the 1930 Games in Canada.
The new president of the Aborigines’
Friends’ Association in S.A., Rev. J. H.
Sexton, has been its secretary ever since
1912. His final report praises the asso-
ciation for having kept open the Her-
mannsburg Mission in the N.T., while
other abo. missions had to close down,
and urges Commonwealth control to find
work for the abo. in essential services
during the war, while at all costs keeping
him away from the cities.
Into the silence:
P. A. Geisler (in Adelaide, at 67) had a
reputation beyond S.A. as an expert on fish and
their foods. His private aquarium was a noted
sight for visitors.
Eric Tolley was one of the wine-and-spirit
family of S.A., and a director of its “T.S.T.”
Co. A leading oarsman in earlier life, he
was 45 at the finish.
At Christchurch (M.L.), at 63, Prof. H. G.
Denham, Director of Canterbury University
College. He did not live long to bear the
rare distinction conferred on him a couple of
months ago—honorary membership of the
Society of Chemical Industry of Great Britain.
The honor is held by only 15 others in the
world.
In Sydney, at 72, William Archibald Win-
deyer, of the old legal family. Senior of
Windeyer and Co., he’d been a Sydney solicitor
for close on half a century, and was Hunter’s
Hill mayor for nine years. In 1914-18 he
worked on repat., comforts and like committees,
and his interest in the Diggers held to such
purpose that in 1936 the R.S.L. gave him its
Certificate of Merit for outstanding continuous
service. He also held the Royal Humane silver
medal for life-saving back in 1902.
At 46, Keith Miller, one of Melbourne’s
best-known journalists. For 30 years with the
“Herald” and “Weekly Times,” he was promi-
nent in A.J.A. activities and was former presi-
dent. He held the A.J.A. gold honor badge.
At 50, Campbell Guest Dickinson, for many
years chief vet. for the Commonwealth Gov-
ernment in the N.T. Since 1936 he had been
C.S.I.R. animal health and nutrition research
officer in Melbourne.
At 76, in Melbourne, William Bradley, father
of one of Australia’s most musical families.
All are well-known professional musicians, and
among them could put up an orchestral per-
formance, if they couldn’t produce a complete
grand opera. Charles and Eileen are singers,
Kevin a pianist, Reginald a violinist and Leo
a saxophonist. One, the late Morman Bradley,
was a leading ’cellist. A grandson is the boy
of eight who surprised critics recently by
giving an entire concert of the masters of
the piano. The father and mother were not
musicians.


Society
"AND IT'S PRINTED
WITH WIMBLE'S INKS"
“Nipper”: The spokesman at a
northern battle front has predicted that
the coming fight will be “a bitter one.”
Both sides are girding up their loins and
gelt’ng into position, and zero hour is
fast approaching for the life-and-death
struggle. For, despite threats of greater
fines to prevent members of various
unions breaking the reimposed ban on
hotels caused through Bung’s refusal to
supply schooners before 4 p.m., there is
a feeling in the trade that many of the
men are “a bit fed up” with the ban and
will weaken. The union bosses are con-
fident that the sheep will stand firm. Now,
if 1 were a Bung I’d stand outside rny
life-saving station one really hot day
holding a foaming pint, and I’d blow the
froth off and do with the stuff under-
neath as was intended by the fellows
who make it, all in full view of the
drouthy pickets. Then I’d smartly side-
step to save being killed in the rush. Then
the war —they refer to it as “our war”
in Newcastle —would be over.
* * * *
“Mac Hoots”: Seeing that it’s a mili-
tary necessity, I carry my identity card
without protest; and, if accused of evad-
ing my call-up, impersonating General
Blarney or being a Japanese in disguise,
1 shall willingly show it to any booby
who asks for it. But I observe a ten-
dency for all sorts of non-military people
to demand to be shown it on all sorts of
non-military occasions. That champion
of democratic liberty Jack Lang, dis-
cussing in the N. S. Wales Parliament a
court case in which a man had given a
false name, but which had nothing what-
soever to do with national security,
wanted to know why the man hadn’t been
asked to show his identity card. And
when the Sydney bread strike was on
the dailies reported that a baker who
had supplies and who was rushed by the
hungry from neighboring suburbs in-
tended to ask for identity cards to make
sure that his own flock got preference.
I don’t object to the police trying to find
out a man’s real name; I sympathise
with any shopkeeper who wishes to
oblige his regular customers. But, re-
calling an occasion when a friend of
mine, caught after hours in a Sydney
pub, gave the names of two dead Presi-
dents of the United States —and got
away with it; and recalling the times
when I have had to fool shopkeepers into
believing that I was a regular customer,
I’m hanged if I can agree that it’s a fair
go to ask for identity cards on any non-
military occasion. Before the New Order
clamps us all into gutless respectability,
I intend to establish a League for the
Protection of Legitimate Lying.
ss # * SH
“S.T.S.”; A little learning can be dan-
gerous, if it is a very little. Lately, on
the air, in a popular quiz, the question
was: “Who was the lady with whom
Dante was in love?” It is not very im-
portant, and there is no harm in not
knowing that she was Beatrice. But a
quiz victim who evidently had vague
memories of literature thought hard for
a bit and then offered “Voltaire.”
* * * *
“Zake”: The white feather hasn’t been
so much in evidence during this war as
it was in the last, though instances do
crop up —a recent Sydney recipient was
a Tobruk Digger. The Digger told re-
porters that the misguided zealot was “a
young woman of about 29, with a lined
face.” I’ll bet she squirmed when she
read the description ; and it hurt even
more if, as I suspect and the Digger
shrewdly guessed, she was no more than
23.
* * * *
“Robbie”: Mention of the fortieth
anniversary of the opening of the Kal-
goorlie water supply (B. 17 /3 / ’43) re-
minds me of the original ceremony.
The best speech of the day was made by
George Reid, who, fixing the crowd with a
glittering monocle, conmenced his oration
with “Ladies and gentlemen, 1 have
never heard so much praise of water,
and never seen so little of it drunk.”
* * * *
“Ear Punisher”; The Rev. Robertson
McCue, spearhead of the anti-liquor
crusade in Melbourne, recently reported
with satisfaction the improvement
achieved by the curtailing of supplies of
grog and the enforcement of hours and
restrictions. Where are his eyes? “People
have given up drinking nowadays,” a
publican said to me the other evening.
“Now they guzzle. And it’s an entirely
new lot. Look at that lounge. It is full
of grey-haired old ladies and nice, re-
spectable girls, and they have been guzz-
ling there since midday. They were
guzzling all yesterday afternoon, and
probably they will all be there guzzling
tomorrow.” It is merely another instance
of the fact that repression creates an
obsession. What most people seek in a
pub is companionship, and a lot who
“ Dammit, man, can't you see it's the north-south runway today ?”
now feel compelled to swallow as many
pots as they can extort from the barman
before the doors are closed against them
would be content to sit drinking ginger-
beer if it weren’t for the repression.
* * * *
“Tummas McNark”: No eagle has an
eye like the human female for the small
details that tell the story. A young
woman, working in a factory, got word
that her husband in the R.A.A.F., sta-
tioned in a distant State, had a short
leave. He asked her if she could wangle
a couple of days to meet him halfway,
The boss, appealed to, let her go, but ad-
vised her not to say a word to the other
female workers. When she got back the
usual female nark tried to pump her.
“Where’ve you been? Off color, were
“You’ll have to be more careful in your calculations, Prendergast, or I’ll
have you replaced by a W.R.A.N."
you? Where’d you spend the time?”
A bit harried, the airman’s wife answered
“At home.” Whereupon her interro-
gator sniffed, looked closely at her and
remarked “And got all them mosquito
bites? There aren’t no mosquitoes out
where you live.”
* * * *
“C. Pipe”: Governments aren’t the
only bodies that earn curses for inflexible
rules and regulations. My neighbor
ordered a supply of coke from a gas com-
pany. When the lorry turned up, its
driver surveyed the dwelling and an-
nounced “Sorry, can’t leave the coke.
We’re not allowed to carry it more than 50
feet.” The housewife suggested that he
carry it to the limit, dump it there and
her husband would do the rest, the driver
picking up the bags on his next trip.
“Sorry, missus, we aren’t allowed to leave
the bags.” Then that housewife, having
fought her way through food shortages,
blackouts, bread strikes and other things,
remarked “Have you heard about the
war? Do you mean to say, with petrol
short, that you’d bring that coke all the
way out here and then take it back again
because of that?” It was not only
what he meant to say but what he did.
Remonstrated with by ’phone, the co.
said the rule had been in force for years.
The Medes and Persians went in for that
sort of thing—and where are the Medes
and Persians?
* ' * H= *
“Col-col”: Echoes of old colonial his-
tory were aroused when an inscribed ring
was picked up in Wickham-street, Bris-
bane. It bore the name of the chap the
street was named after —Captain J. C.
Wickham, Government Resident and
police magistrate of the Moreton Bay
Settlement about 100 years ago. The date
(a bit obscure) is 1837 or 1839. At
about that time Wickham was com-
mander of H.M.S. Beagle, doing coastal
survey work. Later he came into conflict
with Dr. John Dunmore Lang —so for-
gotten by this generation that places
and an electorate named after him
are believed to commemorate John
Thomas Lang. In England Dr. Lang
had organised the Cooksland Colonisa-
tion Company, and through it had
sold land to hundreds of intending
immigrants. On their arrival in four
ships in the summer of 1848, Wickham,
acting under instructions, refused to help
them in any way or give them official
recognition. Local inhabitants, however,
seeing the plight of the newcomers, gave
them a hand in erecting huts. Dr. Lang
was involved in all sorts of trouble over
the business, which gave him many grey
hairs.
** * *
S-1i .S. : The Automobile Association
OF S.A. is making a sustained protest
against the host of “stop” signs recently
erected in Adelaide and the suburbs for
motorists to observe. Its main argu-
ments are three: (1) There are about 100
of them in Adelaide, while Sydney finds
six sufficient. (2) In Melbourne, even the
police rule that the direction to stop
means “extreme caution ; slow down to
a pace which gives absolute control over
the car, then drift over.” (3) The con-
stant dead-stopping wastes petrol and
wears out tyres, already all too scarce,
But Adelaide City Council firmly declines
to reduce the number of signs.
“Bohemian”: An unusual contribution
to the war effort in M.L. was received by
W. E. Parry, Minister of Internal Affairs
—a parcel containing a woman’s brown
locks. The former owner in an accom-
panying letter said she had made the
sacrifice with great reluctance, but she
had to do something. She hoped other
women would be stimulated to similar
heroism.
* $ *
“K.” : Cables announce that the Argen-
tine Government is working to bring to
Argentina from France, where they have
been in durance vile, a trio of famous
Spaniards—the ’cellist Pablo Casals, the
painter Pablo Picasso and the jurist and
historian Rafael Altamira. With the first
Pablo I have no quarrel. May he escape
the Falangists’ clutches and in some
Latin-American hacienda drag the catgut
across the strings to his heart’s content!
And the good Rafael may carry on his
juring and history-writing with my bless-
ing. But I have gazed on some horrific
canvases on which cubists have put to
bad use a lot of good paint; and the
second Pablo, Picasso, originated cubism.
A murrain on him!
PARLIAMENTARY CRISES.
Our legislative halls, you can’t deny,
Abound with men responsive to appeals
For the uplifting of humanity
And similar ideals.
Some stress the proletariat’s hapless plight,
Others proclaim men in the mass their care;
But all, one gathers, are prepared to fight
For those who sent them there.
Some vaunt themselves as champions of Rus;
Agrarian adversity perturbs
Their souls; while more are found assiduous
Protagonists of Urbs.
But whether Right or Left, or Buff or Blue,
All have some guiding principle, you’ll note,
From which you might assume it’s easy to
Determine how they’ll vote;
From some forthright pronouncement, hustings-
hailed,
Some pledge received as binding hard-and-
fast.
Some shibboleth in which a fellow nailed
His colors to the mast.
Too true, perhaps. But when a Crisis comes,
As crises do, one readily conceives
It’s quite, for Tweedledees and Tweedledums,
Another pair of sleeves.
“A dissolution,” one may hear them muse,
Before their course of action they design,
“Which of us stands thereby to win or lose,
Their blanky crowd or mine?
“This party loyalty,” they may say, “too true,
Has nothing relevant to place or pelf,
But still a chap’s first loyalty is due,
No question, to himself.”
How rare the man who finds, or late or soon,
’Gainst party discipline ’tis vain to chafe;
How luckier the legislative loon
Who knows—howe’er he votes —his seat is
safe!
N.S.W.
T. THE R.
THE KERBSTONE ARTIST.
“One of the casualties of this war is the Melbourne
pavement artist” (B. 24/3/’43).
And has he downed his tools these troublous
days, _ .
The chap who used to brighten city walks
With still-life pictures, if I’ve caught the phrase
Aright, presented in alluring ways
By means of colored chalks?
’Twas but a humble calling that he plied;
Modest his earnings, too, one can't gainsay,
That little pile of coppers at his side,
Tributes to art, in which might be descried
Now and again a trey.
He may have glowed with rightful ecstasy
What time his masterpieces he designed.
One can but speculate, because, you see,
The only part of his anatomy
On view was the behind.
Still, he had points of merit that I wish
One found with more ambitious brushwonc
blent. . j ,• u
Whate’er it was his flagstone showed—-a disn
Of fruit, a vase of flowers, a plate of nsh
You gathered what was meant.
Yet sometimes, wandering through a gallery
Where modern painters pose and critics cnat
I halt to ask myself discons’lately
Now what on earth is this supposed to oe.
And what the hell is that ?
And is the kerbstone artist’s cult, then, o’er?
The studies that he limned to stick and stir
Mere memories? If ’tis true, ’tis pity, o
We could have better spared, I hold, a mor
Advanced practitioner.
N.S.W.
IFORD.


“D.E.”: Rather to my astonishment,
I read in an American paper that three-
fourths of the inhabitants of New York
City are of non-American stock, the pre-
dominant element in point of population
being Jewish. I suspect that Woolcott
Forbes must have read the same item in
the same paper; anyway, talking to a
Sydney “Sun” man in his “luxurious
gaol,” and pleading that “my country
owes me something” (Australia, it seems,
is “my country”), he protested that he
was “a life governor of five Australian
hospitals and vice-president of the Jewish
Refugee Society: I was the first Gentile
to give refugees anything.” And perhaps
he was —he certainly scattered other
people’s money around when he had it;
but I was previously under the impression
that Brandei, alias Forbes, was himself a
Jew of Italian descent. He has pleaded
guilty to the American charges against
him, and at the time of writing is await-
ing sentence. The U.S.A., as a rule, hands
out stiff sentences in these cases, and so
does Canada, where Brandei, alias
Forbes, is wanted on “17 charges of stock
frauds.” The fellow might very well be
left to the authorities in those countries,
but the Sydney Government is to make
another attempt (the second) to fetch
him home. It would be much more sen-
sible to fetch the equivalent of his weight
in newsprint.
* * * *
“Tuart”: One of the nicest and ablest
American correspondents I have met is
George Weller, of the Chicago “Daily
News,” and he has made a first-hand
study of the war on several fronts. He
covered the campaign in Malaya for his
paper, was previously in Africa, going
as far as Brazzaville, and was in Aus-
tralia almost as soon as it became part
of the war zone. When I met him he was
on his way to Papua for the second time,
having previously seen a great deal of
every State. I put it to him that West-
ralia must have reminded him of his own
West, and he said it had. Weller has
written a book, Singapore Silent, which
gives a very different picture from that
presented by other correspondents who
were in the place for 10 minutes or so.
He rejects their “cheap explanations” of
the disaster, stating that the alleged
“whisky-swilling” planters and clubbers,
so far from “howling” for aid, “trusted
Churchill and Lend-Lease,” and “did their
full part in A.R.P.” As for the “idle
wives,” he saw them lining up as blood
donors at the clinics. Singapore, in
Weller’s judgment, was doomed from the
moment “France ceased to exist as a
Power able to defend Indo-China,” and
it fell “because the people of Nebraska
and Ohio did not realise what it takes to 1
project naval power across the Pacific,
because Britain could not spare ’planes
from the African and European war
theatres, and because colonial policy had
not attempted to train the native
Malayans to defend their country.” A
sounder judgment there could scarcely be.
* * * *
“Cauboy”: A fine row was started in
Melbourne when the secretary of the
Patriotic Funds Committee revealed that
the giant’s share of the proceeds of a free
open-air concert went in expenses, and
there was talk about a “musicians’
racket.” The situation wasn’t half as
bad as represented, however. The con-
cert in question was tangled up with mis-
fortunes. Weather caused a postpone-
ment, and £3OO insurance was lost be-
cause the Observatory recorded eight
points of rain instead of the necessary
10, though there was a deluge elsewhere.
On the following Sunday the sponsors
had to face the counter-attractions of
Mother’s Day. The orchestra consisted
mostly of professional musicians, who
had to be paid, though they reduced their
rates. To cap all, the public kept its
hands in its pockets.
* * * *
“Hamer”: Another jubilee: it is just
50 years since Sydney got its first
electric tram, an experimental line start-
ing at the original small powerhouse
opposite the Randwick racecourse main
gates and joining up with the steam tram
at Charing Cross. There was a prejudice
against this mode of locomotion at first,
arising out of a fear of being electro-
cuted, but in a decade the new mode
superseded the old steam one everywhere
—for one thing the electric tram could
climb hills a steam locomotive couldn’t
look at. Two cable systems were re-
placed, too ; one climbed the hill from
Milson’s Point to St. Leonard’s Park, the
other ran along William-street to Edge-
cliff ; on neither run could steam trains
climb the grade. One experiment was a
failure double-decker trams, tried
mainly on the George-street runs. These
swayed so dangerously that they were
dropped.
“Jindivick”; Victoria is the place for
steam trams. In the timber country that
lies south of the Baw Baws there are
many lines built for carting logs from
bush to railhead or to mill. The rails
are of sawn timber and are readily re-
placeable after the fires so common to
that part of Australia, while the rolling-
stock in most cases looks as if it was made
by Stephenson personally. These tram
tracks wind over mountains and down
gullies at grades that put the Big Dipper
to shame, and run over shaky trestle
bridges spanning terrifying depths. One
of these trams saved the lives of many
people trapped in the forest during the
big fires of 1931.
» * * •
“NX5257”: “Bless ’em all” was born
about 12 years ago. A clue to its birth-
place is given in the first line, “A troop-
ship was leaving Bombay, bound for Old
Blighty’s shores.” These ships, “heavily-
laden with time-expired men,” left that
odorous Indian port at frequent intervals
carrying back home-hungry and fed-up
troops who’d served their time and were
due for discharge. The emasculated ver-
sion warbled over the wireless renders
“billets” “village” in the line “back to
their billets they crawl.” Soldiers’ songs
are always either mauve or maudlin and
“Bless ’em all” is very definitely mauve.
* * * *
“Harold Hardupp”: A queer accident
happened to Way Loon, a Geelong
Chinese market gardener. When the
horse in a dray he was driving stumbled
and fell, Loon, taken by surprise, was
jerked forward over the horse’s back, his
head thrusting through a loop in a slack-
ened trace. The horse struggled to its
feet again, pulling the trace taut, and
when the police found the horse and cart
by the wayside Way Loon was dead.
* * * *
“C. 8.”: I went to that exhibition of
Russian culture in Melbourne looking for
confirmation of the oft-repeated asser-
tion of Australian Communists that the
Soviet has done wonders for the art of
“May I have just one tiny little peep in the boiler-room ?”
the people. The only thing that gave
individuality to the show was what had
been done by the humble peasant in
Czarist days. The rest was indistinguish-
able from what has been done in every
other country.
* * * *
“A.C.”: In his amusement “beyond
measure” at the idea of licensed
rationed beer-drinking, i Lord Luvus (B.
17 / 3 / ’43) achieves at least three fallacies.
First, he assumes that democracy would
require that a license be issued free to
everybody above voting age. Who ever
heard of a license without a license fee?
and liquor licenses of any kind come
high. Secondly, even if drinkers got
coupons from teetotallers, they would still
have to pay for their booze. Thirdly, the
coupon issue would correspond to the
quantity brewed, so how could drinkers
“probably get more beer than ever”?
* * * *
“Bo”; Held prisoner by the Japs in
Formosa, I note, are the Governor-
General of the N.E.1., Jonkheer A. W. L.
Tjarda van Starkenborgh Stachouwer
(that’s all one man), and the Governor
of Sumatra, A. S. Spits. Think of the
prison commandant who may have to
address the exalted jonkheer by name.
I’m sure traditional Japanese politeness
would compel him to use the whole issue,
and he might have to do it several times
a day With what ineffable relief must
he turn (after having his jaw massaged)
to address plain Mr. Spits!
* * * *
“Spokeshave”: At an important school
in Melbourne the headmaster, showing a
distinguished departmental head con-
cerned with the nation’s foodstuffs what
his boys were doing in school hours for
the war effort, led the visitor to a part
of the grounds where there was a row
of heads bent over a patch of onions.
“Let us surprise them,” said the proud
pedagogue. “Let us observe the spon-
taneous enthusiasm with which they have
responded to the call of duty.
denly a raucous voice was heard. ‘ Say,
blokes, this is a blanky sight better than
that blankety blank psychology drivel,
ain’t it?”
* * * »
“Melbn”: A disconcerting feature of
Melbourne’s typhoid outbreak was the
rapidity with which the infection
spread, especially among women and
children. For some reason or other,
most carriers are women. A classic
case occurred in U.S.A. 50 years
ago, when a woman cook was found to
have communicated the disease to 20
persons in various households. The
authorities detained her, but subsequently
let her out on parole on condition that
she gave up cooking and reported herself
regularly. She just vanished. Subse-
quently 25 cases of typhoid occurred in
a maternity hospital and ‘ Typhoid
Mary” was found employed in the
kitchen. She was permanently detained
thereafter. Two or three per cent, of all
typhoid convalescents become lifelong
carriers.
* * * *
“Panem” on a bread crisis:
Strange how many disturbances and con-
troversies have their centre in the viand which
the Lord’s Prayer mentions as the symbol ot
all food, and which Dean Swift respectfully
termed the Staff of Life. When I was very
young I was addicted to it, fresh, and my
parents never tired of assuring me that this was
the most indigestible and utterly unsuitable
diet a child could batten on. Indeed, I think
they would have excised it from my rations
entirely had not the family circle fallen for a
while under the shadow of a Danish sea-cap-
tain, a huge golden-bearded fellow, who sat me
on his lap and patted my head very gently,
albeit with a hand that weighed nearly as much
as 1 did. “All rot,” he said briefly but finally
on hearing my mother’s views on bread. “In
Danemark we rear big, strong mans on bora
und bots —nothings else, yoost bord und bots.
He meant bread and butter, and carried con-
viction. So I ate my bord and bots with a clear
conscience for many years till I began to read
articles in the public press showing that most
of the ills that flesh is heir to are due to the
terrible effects of white bread, or any sort of
bread not made of bran or sawdust or chopped
grass or some other recipe peculiar to the
learned contributor. But it wasn’t these scares
that finally put me off bread. It was resiaence
in Sydney, where it was seldom I could get
a fresh roll with my lunch, what with late de-
liveries and bakers’ holidays on all the saints’
days, and a strong prejudice among bakers
against baking at night (or at any time), that de-
cided me to boycott bread, and I have lived
happily ever since. Recent civil discontents in
Sydney, resulting in a bread famine to add to
other war-time discomforts, leave me unruffled,
and add, I am happy to believe, to the little
band of bread-boycotters of which I claim to be
a pioneer.
* * * *
“Lord Luvus”: In Melbourne an educa-
tionist has suggested that every child
should carry round with him an identity
card showing his intelligence quotient and
his school marks. Under this dispensa-
tion Einstein would have been branded
intellectually C 3, for he states himself
that when at school he was unable to pass
examinations in arithmetic. The exami-
nation fetish had a disconcerting spot-
light thrown on it when some university
graduates were arguing the difference be-
tween schizophrenia and paranoia in a
Melbourne cafe, and a young doctor was
listening to the discussion. Suddenly
there was a terrifying interruption, to
which the university graduates reacted
exactly like ordinary unlearned indivi-
duals by becoming helpless and panic-
stricken. An elderly man was throwing
a fit at a neighboring table. After the
doctor had dealt with the situation he
came back and resumed his seat at the
table. “Well,” he asked drily, “was that
a case of schizophrenia or paranoia?”
* * * *
“Craiser”: A bearded young Melbourne
artist attended a party given by an emi-
nent R.A. in London. Not having as
yet got a toehold on the dreadfully ex-
clusive art world of Chelsea, he was sur-
prised at his reception. Men and women
standing high in literature, art, society
and politics crowded the great man's
studio, but its owner ignored all these and
concentrated on the obscure and hard-up
painter. The R.A. showed his young
guest his latest portraits, discussed cur-
rent artistic viewpoints, plied the young-
ster with wine and savories, introduced
him to some very big guns and then
wafted him over the doorstep with the
whispered invitation to drop in again any
time he wanted. A few days later the
young artist discovered that the Great Man
had mistaken him for a Swedish noble-
man who had come to buy pictures.
* * * *
“Ike Hollar”: How many people re-
member a single line written by Alfred
Austin, the man who was appointed Poet
Laureate to keep Kipling out of the job?
I do remember one, as it happens, but
it is purely because of its badness:
The British flag, inflexible as fate.
The idea of a flag starched to a condi-
tion of inflexibility tickled the world ;
but the “Times,” which dutifully pub-
lished the very poor poem of which it
was part, also dutifully sent along a
cheque for 50 guineas, which, it appears,
was regarded as the correct fee for a Poet
Laureate. It was stated at the time that
Austin was surprised to receive payment
at all. No wonder!
* *
“Strict Veg.” relates a personal clinical
experience:
Tell “Ajax” (B. 17/3/’43) that I would not
refuse the ministrations of a doctor any more
than I would the advice of a dietitian. If. I
went to a doctor and he told me the pain in
my side was appendicitis there is no way by
which I could review his judgment, since I'm
not a doctor. But I had certain symptoms fcpr
years, and doctors sought for the cause in
diabetes, migraine, spinal tuberculosis and good-
ness knows what else. They starved me, stuffed
me, gave me injections and snipped bits off me,
and one wanted to remove the major portion of
my bowels. The last diagnosis I got was
from a specialist who said I had thickening of
the meninges and that I was doomed to a life of
torment which could be alleviated only by drugs.
It turned out that my alleged complaints were
psychologically, not physically, conditioned, and
I haven’t taken a drug for years, nor have I any
of the symptoms. As for dietitians, I
don’t doubt for a moment that they can tell
me how few vitamins there are in a glass of
beer and how many in a beefsteak, and
that if I ate a little less meat, more green
vegetables and fresh fruit and a great deal more
milk I would have a theoretically better-
balanced diet. But if I like beer and don’t like
milk the advice won’t be much use to me.
• j» • •
“Bohemian”: Recently in M.L. when
an old church in a deserted mining
hamlet was being dismantled, the work-
men taking up the flooring were amazed
to find underneath a gaping shaft, 50ft,
deep. It was a bit of a mystery, for no
one would build over an open shaft. It
was discovered that in the “roaring days”
the shaft had been filled up with gravel.
The district was visited by torrential rains,
the shaft had underneath’ it a tangle of
crosscuts and galleries, and percolation
had carried the gravel filling away into
the underground workings. How many
years the congregation had worshipped
over a pit it is difficult to say. Probably
50, at least.
* * * *
An Ivan Menzies protest against “a
few negative lines” in B. 3 / 3 / ’43 “regard-
ing the work of Moral Rearmament”:
A few people who have a deep love for
Australia are pioneering this work here.
They are ordinary hard-working people in
the services or in jobs contributing to the
war effort. Some 45 of these, at personal
sacrifice, travelled from Adelaide, Mel-
bourne, Sydney and Brisbane to Canberra
to stage a Moral Rearmament Revue at
Parliament House. One young officer
spent his leave to travel all the way from
Westralia to play a small part in this revue,
as he deemed it of such national import-
ance. All paid their own expenses and were
released by their various employers for a
couple of nights, as apparently the em-
ployers recognised the importance of what
they were doing. Their work is entirely
voluntary, and no fees or even overhead
expenses are asked for. The people con-
cerned have no pretensions to acting and
do not even consider themselves amateur
actors.
I am enclosing a reprint from the Wash-
ington “Evening Star” and copies of cables
received from America, England and
Canada on the eve of our showing of the
revue to Parliament.
Copies received and read. They show
that the Moral Rearmament war effort
has champions in the countries men-
tioned, as well as heaps of nasty ciitics.


ABORIGINALITIES
“Old-timer”: Struck a young bush
friend of mine in uniform. He’d been
lately up north, and we got to talking
about the doings when he casually men
tioned that young Bluey, a son of my old
mate, old Bluey, had been with him up
there. “Go on,” I said. “How’s he
doin’?” The youth thoughtfully absorbed
some of his refreshment, then said “Well,
y’ don't hear much about it down here,
I reckon, but that Bluey’s a bit of a
terror. Yairs, he sneaks off through the
scrub and mud and hunts round till he
finds a Jap outpost or maybe a bit of a
patrol an’ then he has ’em on.” “Has
’em on?” “Yairs ; y’ know how we used
t’ bring emus up be flashing a mirror or
wavin’ a bit o’ red rag an’ that? Well,
young Blue works that on the Japs, an’
soon’s they get near over they go.” I
looked him in the eye and I said “Lad,
y’ can’t tell me the Japs is as silly as
emus.” He looked back to me, unmoved
and said “Aw, well, o’ course, I forgot t’
tell y’ young Blue’s a born mimic. If
they’re suspicious he makes a noise like
a pot of boilin’ rice.” Then he downed
his drink and left, leaving me sadly to
reflect that the bush bloke never changes,
come Modernity with what it will.
* * * »
“Looby”: Dad Wilson cornered Ben
Watts at the post office. “You know that
bloke my daughter brought up for a
week’s holiday? Well, d’ y’ know what
he calls himself? A naturalist!” Ben
was a bit suspicious of Dad’s grin. “What
do you reckon a naturalist is, Ben?” he
asked. “Well,” said Ben cautiously, “ain’t
it a chap wot gives up his whole life to
being natural and not puttin’ on airs?”
“That’s what / always thought,” Dad said
with satisfaction. “But now I know it’s
only a term used sarcastic- like. This
bloke uses all queer names —we had a
hell of an argument about a bird he called
a cisti-cola-exiles or somethin’ —as if I
don’t know a blasted grass warbler when
I hear one!” “Well, he might call him-
self a naturalist,” said Ben, “but he ain’t
one, to my way o’ thinkin’. He lobbed
into the pub yesterday an’ I asked him
to have a drink, and, blime, he ordered
a lemonade. If y’ can tell me there’s any-
thing natural about that I’ll eat a chaff-
bag ! ”
*l*
“Walkabout”; For decades popular
fiction has extolled the camel for its
ability to exist for various fantastic periods
without replenishing its water tank. My
experience with camels in a part of Aus-
tralia where weaklings, man or beast,
could not make the grade, proved very
conclusively that the oont can’t go any
longer without water than horses of the
right breed. In far north-western Queens-
land I’ve known horses exist in a water-
less paddock in which camels died of
thirst; and in the Sinai and Palestine
campaigns of 1914-18 some of the Waters
were fighting fit after 60 and 70 hours’
hard going without a drink. I never
heard of any Camel Corps beast putting
up such a feat and surviving the ordeal.
Were I compelled to take on a journey
through country where waterholes were
few and far between and my choice of
conveyance lay between a camel and a
horse, I’d prefer the latter. If I couldn’t
get through on a yarraman I’m certain the
best oont ever calved wouldn’t make the
stage.
“Raeside Soak”: I hate to snatch a
laurel from the departed, but (B.
24/2/’43) “Passed on at Alice Springs, at
71, J. Smith Roberts.... it was he who
introduced the Indian camel with ’Ghan
drivers that played such a prominent part
in the arid west,” seems open to doubt.
On June 26, 1894, 17 Afghan camel-
drivers, in charge of 110 camels, set out
from Bourke to cross the continent to
Coolgardie. The cavalcade reached
there. The oonts were owned by Gunny
Khan ; the boss and guide of the expedi-
tion one Vincent Green, better known
as Pat. J. S. Roberts, if he died at 71,
was just 22 at the time, so if he was
ahead of Gunny K. and Faiz Mahomet
he must have got into the camel trade
“ Where to next. Brig .?”
at a very early age. I am speaking this
piece on behalf of the shade of Pat
Green, whose feat of leading that string
2370 miles across some of the hardest
country on the globe takes a bit of
beating.
“Butcher-bird”; Was once skinning a
steer when the knife took an unexpected
course and traversed the best part of the
first finger of my left hand. Unable to
stop it bleeding I was in a quandary until
a kindly Afghan who was passing
through our nor’-west W.A. district came
to the rescue. He burnt portion of his
silk turban and rubbed the ash between
his palms until it was fine powder, then
applied it to the cut. It resulted in almost
immediate coagulation.
=K * * *
“Thistlebrook”: A large fox ap-
proached through the bracken. On the
offchance of Reynard coming close, 1
picked up a waddy and gathered myself
for the assault. Just then the crafty one,
apparently whiffing me, turned sharply at
right angles and dashed into a near-by
stream. To my surprise he scrambled
out of the water and retraced his steps
up the bank. It was clear that all was
not well with him ; he didn’t proceed with
the surefootedness and aplomb of a nor-
mal fox. A moment later he nose-dived
into a dry gully and ran his snout into the
other bank like a sleepwalker. When he
was halfway up the opposite bank I got
him. The post-mortem revealed that he
had got a wishbone, probably a large
turkey gobbler’s, caught in his mouth,
prongs upward. The two prongs had
penetrated through the soft palate, one
behind each eye, completely severing the
main optic nerves.
“The 0.D.”: It’s funny how a bloke
can knock about the bush, nursin’ sheep,
cow-cockyin’ an’ so forth and yet miss
things that are, apparently, common
knowledge to everybody else. More than
30 of my years have been spent in the
bush, yet X never before heard of a
“checkle-faced cow” (B. 24/3/’43). What
sort of a beast is it?
* * * *
“90 Mile”: About the most noticeable
thing under my shirt, “N.” (B. 24/3/’43),
is a large callus on my right shoulder.
It was first started by the kick from an
old muzzle-loading .44 Belgian rifle which
the boss gave me when I began life as
wood-and-water joey to a bunch of kan-
garoo-shooters, and has since been con-
solidated by swag-straps and the butts of
innumerable pieces, ranging from a home-
made spring gun through a line of rifles
and scatter-cannon to a monstrous swivel
gun made from 2in. galvanised piping
and mounted on a flattie. Now that cal-
lus doesn’t make me a marksman, but
it does evidence some knowledge of
marksmanship. How do I imagine people
hit kangaroos at 300 yards? I certainly
don't imagine anybody does it with an
ordinary .22, and as for potting moving
Blakes from a moving dinghy on a mov-
ing river—well, I’m moved to derision,
that’s all. But I am glad to discover
that “N.’s” a Croweater. I once spent
a year among that tribe. What preten-
sions to skiting I had were completely
eradicated—the competition was far too
strong.
* $ * *
“B. 4”: Sundown, and many birds still
active, the hunt for food transformed into
an anxious hunt for a safe bedroom.
Many of the honeyeater tribe conceal
themselves in dense clusters of leaves pen-
dent from a drooping branch but lacking
support for a marauding cat or questing
carpet snake. However, the agitated
squeaking and rustling bespeak their
apprehension and desire for an inside
perch ; so an evening game of round the
mulberry bush is preliminary to bedtime.
Others fancy the sanctuary offered by
remote twigs on a rotten limb, testing
many before dossing down. But the
lithe, lengthy bodies of the brown tree,
the whip and the copper snake quarter-
ing the trees, dead and living alike, pene-
trate to even the remotest bunkhouse.
Coiling the lissom whiplash tail round
a safe anchorage, the eager head darts
out and plucks the sleeping, confiding
mickey, squawking and bewildered, from
his frail perch. Aroused by the clamor,
I have shot the snakes mentioned, and
noticed the secure tail hold of each rep-
tile as, bird in mouth, it dangled, drip-
ping blood, before tumbling off.
♦ * * *
“Narrin”: As one who has battled
about in the endless red-sandhill country
of northern S.A. and the gibber tablelands
of the same district, with sufficient ex-
perience of the flat mulga scrubs of west-
ern N.S.W., the heavy scrub of the Mount
Lofty hills —it was heavy scrub then —
and the ocean of mallee east of the
range, I have never believed in this “sense
of direction.” Coming to this Murray flats
district, it took me some time to master
the geography. Several miles of country
were gridironed with creeks, all bordered
with gums ; then there were hundreds of
acres of parklike sand flats carrying black
box. Amongst it all sprawled the lignum.
Now I know that country like the back
of my hand, having learned it as a child
learns the geography of the backyard:
by constant observation and memorising
of landmarks. Yet, coming back to the
flats after a three months’ absence to find
that somebody had cut down a few score
acres of sapling box, I was puzzled to
recognise the country in the dusk. Several
times I had to stop and think what lay
ahead and where a known rabbit warren
was.
* * * *
Another batch of names for the Aus-
tralian cruiser tank:
“F.W.D.”: “Bang-Bang”—and that’s a good
abo. name for a stretch of country out from
Normanton (Q.).
“W.P.O’N.”; “Dooralby” (fight), “Curan-
doo” (thunder), “Coolah” (anger), “Goondah”
(storm), all from the Monaro dialect.
“Budgeree” (C.Q. abo. for very
good); also Monash, after our own World War
I general.
“A.J.8.”: “Naroot,” “Warreen,” “Mutye,”
all dealing with the wombat’s strength.
“Bunyip,” which may scare the
Nips.
“F.1.W.”: “Boomerang”—they come back.
“L. 0.” : “Corroboree”—the incomprehen-
sible.
“J.G.S.”: “Yaruthum”—the spotted native
cat, a doughty fighter.
“F.A.McN.”: “Jarboolbina”—lightning.
“E.N.”: “Digger” or “Aussie.”
“J.D.P.”: “Warrigal”—cunning bush fighter.
“Zake”: “Breeza” (flea —it bites and hops),
“Bundaburrah” (red kangaroo, for leaping).
• * * *
“Prop”: Abo. place-names, is it (B.
10/3/’43)? For sheer mellifluence I
nominate Murnpeowie, the B.P. co.’s run
in far-northern S.A. Local opinion says
it means “the place where the pigeons
water”—the pigeons being, of course, top-
knots. Say it slowly and softly with equal
value to all syllables, and don’t forget
the “r,” and hear for yourself.
* * * *
“B. A. Ker”: Can’t agree that the grey-
hound is the best pot-hunting dog in the
bush (B. 10/3/’43) —that is, if “the bush”
is interpreted as meaning scrubby or
rugged country. I’ve always found dogs
that rely solely on the sense of sight use-
less in districts where natural cover
offers the quarry a myriad hiding places.
The best pot-hunter I ever saw was the
issue from a mesalliance between an out-
size foxhound and a tiny fox-terrier. The
mong inherited the outstanding charac-
teristics of both breeds. To see him pick
up and follow a scent was to see a first-
class foxhound —with the difference that
he never warned the game by baying.
When the trail became hot the terrier in
him became evident. Slinking through
the grass on his belly, worming noise-
lessly around stumps and rocks, he would
creep to within springing distance —and
his owner’s tucker-bag was replenished.
What’s more, the game was never even
bruised on the body.
* * ♦ *
“City Mug”: Would “J.D.P.” (B.
17/3/’43) explain just what he means by
“have seen many a good gun ruined by
reason of its being strained in endeavor-
ing to bring down game beyond its legi-
timate range”? Distance from shooter
to game does not affect the gun.
* « * «
“C.E.”: Eager to get this flamin’ nui-
sance of a war over, Lofty joined the dis-
trict’s V.D.C., did his best with a be-
wildering issue of equipment, and fell in
like all the rest of the mob. “And next
Saturday,” bellowed the section leader,
concluding his instructions, “all members
to be on parade with full kit and emer-
gency rations sufficient for 48 hours,
when the visiting O.C. will inspect the
section.” The following week found
Lofty rigidly in place when the head com-
menced his stroll along the line. Pres-
ently a convulsive movement brought
official eyes in his direction, and a few
seconds later they focused on the new
recruit’s wobbling gear. “Forty-eight
hours’ rations too heavy for you, eh?”
he suggested, striding over and ordering
Lofty to open his haversack. Lofty un-
did the buckles, hauled out a small pump-
kin and grabbed the thing shut again.
The officer gaped ; then, leaning forward,
tugged at the haversack. “Cripes!” There
was a scuffle, and Lofty caught his rabbit
in mid-air. Then, as an explanation
seemed necessary, “Thought it weren’t no
use killin’ ’im yet, sir,” he said with a
good-natured grin; “but don’t you
worry, he’ll keep good-oh like this till
we’re ready for him.”
« * * •
“Niloc”: Bert swears to this. With his
dog laid up and quail scarcer than beer,
he concluded that it was a mug’s game
and turned homewards. Coming along
the track he sighted a crow, reloaded and
moved a little further round the side ot
the tree that hid him. Then his ankle
firmly hooked in a root, and as he was
falling one barrel went off ; as he hit the
ground the second shot exploded. With
the second shot he got five quail and a
carpet snake which was evidently alter
the birds ; a bewildered marksman was
just gazing at his tally when the falling
crow hit him on the head.
TOBRUK.
The brazen sun beats mercilessly down;
The dust clouds whirl and puff, then quickly
die;
Hopeless, I search that molten, searing sky.
In shimmering heat lies, deathly still, the town.
Dry ridge on ridge and hill on dusty hill.
Steep, stony wadis that have never known
The rushing flood; hot, barren lands unsown,
Devoid of grass or tree; the Devil’s will
Itself could scarce such desolation wreak
As has through man’s improvidence been
wrought.
Was this the land for which the Romans fought,
Which brought cold death to many a ruddy
cheek?
The long, monotonous, drab hills sweep down,
Unending grim procession of dead hopes.
All signs of life have vanished from the slopes
Above the desolate and white-rimmed town.
The harbor’s face is gashed with warlike scars;
Sad, mouldering hulks of once-proud ships are
seen;
At angles queer, with gaping sides, lie lean
Greyhounds, black, twisted metal, shattered
spars.
As if in proud defiance of Fate’s cast
Our blazing muzzles still erectly stand
Upon the tortured wrecks, as though still
manned
By these brave stalwarts, fighting to the last.
The quays are still, deserted and forlorn;
A crane hangs gaunt against the evening sky,
Creaking and groaning when the wind goes by;
The town of its gay populace is shorn.
No longer signorinas nightly lean
Upon the little wooden balcony ;
No longer do their swains their poesie
Declaim about the beauty they have seen;
The sounds of merry music, dancing feet,
That once arose from joyful man and maid,
All these are gone—their happy haunts decayed;
No more glad laughter echoes down the street.
The market lies disused —gone are the days
When housewives, gossiping, would sit and talk
Amidst the natives’ babble and the squawk
Of poultry fighting in the pens; appraise
Their purchases and give the native half
His price, then wend their portly way to sip
A glass of wine at the cafe, where, lip
fo lip, some dark-eyed couple love and laugh.
The crumbling walls, dark, ominous red stain,
The shell-torn streets, the signs of mad affray:
Gone life, all color, dreams of yesterday—
Ruin and death, sad desolation reign!
A.I.F.
GEOFF SHRAPNEL.


“Arev”: The Jupp kids came rushing
home from school as if play and not
work awaited them. “There’s a
in Smith’s paddock down the road,” burst
out Jacky. “If we get the milkin’ done
early, can we go?” “H’m!” said Bill
Jupp. “How much is it to go in?” Jacky
grinned triumphantly. “If we lend the
bloke half a dozen ducks fer the night
we can get in for nix!” Bill stared.
“What’s he want the ducks for?” he
asked. “I dunno,” young Jacky said,
“but the posters on the fences say ‘See
the Dancin’ Ducks.’ ” “But our ducks
can’t dance,” Bill said. Jacky nodded.
“1 told the bloke that, but he said that’d
be all right; ‘Bring along the ducks,’ he
said, ‘and I’ll let you four kids in fer
nothin’.’ So you’ll let us go, won’t you.
Dad?” Bill agreed: it seemed a cheap
entertainment for the youngsters. To
satisfy his curiosity Bill accompanied
them. When the dancing ducks were
announced, the band played a slow
measure, and on to the small enclosed
iron platform strutted the Jupp ducks. As
they walked around the platform, each
duck raised one foot, then the other,
while the music kept time. The Jupps
were astonished. The audience clapped
heartily as the door at the back of the
platform opened and the ducks danced
off. At the end of the performance the
Jupp kids collected the ducks. “Fancy
them learnin’ so quickly,” said Jacky.
“wonderful, ain’t it, Dad?” Bill nodded,
his brow wrinkled in thought. But the
next day when Bill found the burns on
the feet of the ducks where they had
been marched on the hot platform he
went looking for the circus proprietor —
in vain.
* « * *
“Jumbuck”: That extra large wether
“Pudden” Currens shore in “well under
three-quarters of a minute” (B. 10/3/’43)
must have been a rosella and as bare of
belly and wrinkles as a pig is of silk.
I’ve seen most of the ringers of the past,
from Jackie Howe, Harry Livingstone,
Fred Zimmerlie and Paddy Palmer down
to the 300-a-day men of the last few
years, and during championship contests
I never knew any of them to barber a
sheep under a minute. And it might
interest “Boxer” to know that the bigger
the wether invariably the plainer-bodied,
a type much easier and quicker shorn
than the smaller-framed wrinkly. I’ve
seen Maoriland “guns” with 300-a-day
references amongst crossbreds nearly
burst their gizzards in the effort to shear
a hundred amongst some of our New
England merinos.
* * * *
“E.P.A.”: I think someone has been
pulling “B. A. Ker’s” leg about catching
ermine by the tongue (B. 3/ 3 / ’43). I
don’t think the weasels are in much
danger of being caught in that manner.
“8.A.K.” probably confused ermine with
chinchilla. Chinchillas were at one time
caught by the tongue to prevent damage
to the soft grey fur by steel traps and
other devices, but the Governments of
Chile and Peru have now prohibited the
barbarous practice.
He * * *
“Bad Australian”: I was admiring
Baramba Bill’s dog and the clever way
he worked a mob of skittish yearlings.
“Yair,” assented Bill, “he’s a trimmer,
right enough. I got him from a bloke at
Mt. Perry when he wus a pup, an’ if
it wasn’t fer some queer ways he’s got
I’d say he wus the best dawg in Queens-
land. 1 tell y’ how he developed ’em.
One time I’m on me way up the Burnett,
an’ when I camps fer the night I puts
him down out o’ the sulky fer a bit of a
run around, an’ goes after a billy
water an’ some firewood. When I gets
back the pup’s gorn an’ there’s a 12ft.
carpet snake coiled up on me nap, with
a bulge in his middle as big as a punkin.
1 outs the snake, an’ seein’ that the bulge
is still heavin’ an’ palpitatin’ I cuts the
reptile open an’ there’s the pup, a bit
slimy but alive an’ kickin’. After a bit
he comes to, an’ recovers rapid an’ learns
everythink wot a man’s dawg orter know,
but he always has a wrigglin’, slithery
way o’ gettin’ about, an’ a habit o pokin
his tongue out at strangers. He swallers
his grub without puttin’ a tooth into it,
an’ at the fust sign o’ winter he dis-
appears until the follerin’ spring, w’en
he turns up, all skin an’ ribs like a black-
feller’s mong, but after a few days lurkin’
in the sun he perks up ready to do the
work o’ two dawgs.”
* * * *
“Boxer”: Quartpot and Gunbarrel
were carrying rails to make a chock-and-
log fence. With a shoulder under each
end they were staggering the hundred
yards from the rail heap to the fence.
“There must be some easier way than
this,” gasped Gunbarrel. “The on’y easier
way,” replied Quartpot to his fellow abo.,
“is to get another blasted blaCkfellow six
inches taller than us, and put him in the
middle!”
* * » »
“Sou’-west”: “B.4’s” set nets that were
“hurdled with flashing leaps which landed
them [mullet] safely t’other side of an-
other net stretched flat to catch the
bounders” is a new way of fishing to me.
How do you stretch a net flat, anyway?
My nets always had corks and leads.
So it would be necessary to detach all
the leads as a start. And then I’d like to
see a net stretched flat on the surface of
the water. Here’s the way we caught
mullet, without dynamite. A school
sighted, we started to run the net
around them—but always behind the
way they were swimming, for mullet
alarmed turn back and so strike
the net in the effort to get away.
With the net, 1000 yards of it, feeding
out from the stern of the dinghy, a wide
circle was laid. Then, both ends brought
together, one end was anchored, while
the other was walked, first along the inner
side of the anchored section until a huge
flat spiral was formed, the loose end
being taken round until finally the fish
were corralled in a small inside circle.
Frantic to escape, they struck at the net
and were meshed. Many jumped the
corks, only to be meshed in the outer
ring fence of net. The final job was to
lift the anchored end and slowly bring
the net into the boat, yard by yard, until
the floor would be covered by hundreds,
perhaps thousands, of gleaming silver fish.
* * * *
“M.U.R.”: Nobody told me stringy-
bark and messmate were the same (B.
24/3/’43); always believed it till I hit
coastal N.S.W., where a lot of other
things weren’t the same. However, since
we’re becoming technical, I looked up
the Australian Encyclopaedia on the sub-
ject :
... .Nelson’s specimen [of eucalypt dis-
coveied on Cook’s 1777 voyage] was the
first to be botanically described, L’Heritier
in ’ 1788 giving it the name Eucalyptus
obliqua —now commonly known as mess-
mate or stringybark.... Classification by
the bark, however... .is the simplest
[means of classification of the genus] so
far suggested This provides five divisions
—ironbarks, stringybarks, woolly-butts,
bloodwoods (scaly-barks) and gums proper
(smooth-barks) Stringybarks have thick,
loose and fibrous bark, with the fibres laid
longitudinally. Representative species are
the yellow stringybark, the messmate, the
red mahogany and the common stringybark.
This seems to suggest that “8.A.” and
the messmate school have given the yel-
low stringy a new name, and it bears out,
to some extent, “B.A.’s” contention of a
“Looks like Joe's undercarriage got stuck again."
“Where ’bouts is the Far East, Tummas?”
“ Aw , 'e's way up north.”
difference between messmate (coastal
stringybark) and common (inland)
stringybark. But it supports my claim,
too, so I dunno whether the drinks are
on who or which.
* * *
“8.P.”: Nobody need waste ink telling
me how big Australia is (B. 24/ 3/ ’43),
but if there are any “dusty bush tracks’
from South-east Cape to Thursday, Nor-
manton to Marble Bar or The Leeuwin
to Gabo that ever become a “riot of red
gum-leaves” just because it’s autumn I’ll
eat my swag-straps. I’ve seen tracks
covered with fallen leaves in autumn, but
it was a whopping great bushfire that put
’em there.
* * v *
“Padflogger”: Most men baching in
the bush either live poor or go to end-
less trouble cooking themselves a palat-
able meal. After a hard day’s slogging
they will start cooking a roast or a stew,
a job involving a couple of hours’ wait.
Old Take Radich, poultry farmer and
charcoal-burner out in the hills east of
Perth, seemed to have the right idea.
Apart from the frying-pan Take’s cook-
ing utensil was a five-gallon oil-drum.
On Sunday Take dressed a couple of
fowls, culls no longer profitable as egg-
layers. These, with the feet and giblets,
went right at the bottom of the drum.
On them went a layer of onions, fol-
lowed by layers of any other vegetable
handy, carrots, parsnips, peas, topped off
with a thick layer of potatoes. Then in
the space still left went the joint for the
day, chicken, rabbit, pork, mutton, but
not beef. Set on crossbars over an open
fire the drum boiled, the viands at the
top being steamed. These served as Sun-
day meals, the other contents, with addi-
tions, lasting the week. After breakfast
each morning, which consisted of a fry,
the drum was set on a slow fire. And
there were dinner and supper always hot
and ready. Anything not quite cooked
could be put back and some more suit-
able item fished out. Each night Take
tossed in fresh potatoes and onions. The
flavor of the brew was one conducive
to second helpings. Neither Take nor
his two sons suffered from indigestion.
* * * *
“Naturala”: How long is it since a
bushman saw a hive of native bees?
Fifty years ago they were plentiful; busy
little fellows, not much bigger than the
native blowfly. For immemorial ages
they had been the abos.’ main source of
sweetening. I fancy they must all have
passed in what might be called Aus-
tralia’s golden age of the “sugar-bag.’
The imported bee came, escaped into the
bush and multiplied to millions. Hives
Joaded with honey were in every hollow
tree or limb. On this profusely-flowered
continent the bee was without any enemy
other than man. Just about every home-
coming bush worker brought with him
a kero.-tin or so of honey, the loot of
the wilds. Then the moth arrived, a
slate-colored demon that crept into the
hive under the cover of night. From eggs
laid in cunningly-concealed positions
grubs hatched out. These burrowed into
the luscious comb, fattening on both wax
and honey. The chrysalis in its cocoon
followed, then the moth again. So the
cycle went on and on, the moth not
troubling to leave the hive until all comb
was black and empty, all brood bees
destroyed, all adult bees starved to death.
The imported bee, with its deadly sting,
could put up some defence, though it
often failed because the door of the hive,
the hole in the hollow tree, was too large
to be adequately defended. The native
bee put up no defence at all. Stingless,
without the instinct to recognise the
destroyer, it merely vanished.
* V *
“Chuck”: The old man was yarning
to a neighboring sheepman in the back-
yard. “With the market down two bob,”
he growled, “I think I’ll hold mine
awhile.” “Come on, Dad,” yelled a voice
from the house, “y’ll be late for the wed-
ding.” “Aw, I got t’ give the bride away,”
Dad explained hastily. “But, as I wus
sayin’, them weaners” “Hey, Dad,
the car’s here.” Some time later, the
decorated car pulled in by the township
church, and the old bloke, all mixed up
with a boiled shirt and a horde of flut-
tering females, was receiving his in-
structions. “Yair, all right, all right,” he
agreed ; “but, cripes, there’s Tom Brady.
Just a minute till I see what price he got
f’r his wethers.” At length they headed
him off, the organ moaned warningly, and
amid excited gasps and the squeak of
Dad’s boots the wedding party moved
up the aisle. The blushing bride shoved
the old cove into place, the rustling sub-
sided and the service swung into its usual
gait. In the expectant hush that followed
the pause after the “Wilt thou take this
man” sequence, the paternal donor
touched the shoulder of the best man
mysteriously. “Well, Dan,” came a loud
stage whisper, “an’ what d’ y’ think o
the fat-lamb job now?”
“Loc”: Over a course of years Harry
had made a name for himself as being
generous to swaggies until some of them
started to make it a welter. Then Harry
got a new car and put his ancient cast-off
just inside his gate with a placard: If
you want a job, get this going, and the
noise’ll bring someone.” He has it
worked out that a bloke who’s still crank-
in’ after half an hour is worth his salt,
but one that gives up too easy is a flamin
loafer. And there’s no chance of ’em
pinchin’ the thing, anyway, when the
motor’s out of it!
THE GRASSES.
See where the little laughing blades of grass
Have topped the drab and sullen sandbagged
wall, , . ,
And wave a gay defiance ot the burst
Of bomb or shattering shell.
There is a tireless life in all things green _
That jeers at death and puts our fears to shame.
And when the alien engines gripe the skies,
And we are intimate with clay and worms,
Throughout the endless moment of the raid,
The standing, gleaming grasses shall behold
Our bobbing heads, in trenches at their leet.
And, smiling, nudge each other,
Half-amused,
And wholly, greenly,
Wisely unafraid.
R.A.A.F.
BREFFNI HOSKING.


o
k
AUSTRALIAN - HADE
RADIOTRON
radio valves
AUSTRALIAN GENERAL ELECTRIC PROPRIETARY, LID.,
93 Clarence Street, Sydney.
AMALGAMATED WIRELESS (A/8IA), LTD.,
72 Clarence Street. Sydney.
Advertisement pi Amalgamated Wireless Valve Co. Pty.. Ltd.
u&uhvcjfaeA,
FOR DOM L !sTIr VALVeS
Sr coL^ r °^e sand
na. ane yoarv *to*b at ..
. **£££%"-**
nm '***DlOvio t ,
Australian, Mercantile, Land & Finance
Company, Limited
(INCORPORATED IN ENGLAND IN 1863)
WOOL, FAT STOCK, STORE AND STUD STOCK,
PRODUCE AND PROPERTY SALESMEN
General Manager for Australia: R. SINCLAIR SMITH.
ADVANCES MADE ON GRAZING PROPERTIES, ON STOCK, AND 0
CONSIGNMENTS OF WOOL, SKINS, HIDES, TALLOW, EIU
LICENSED AUCTIONEERS, STOCK AND STATION AGENTS.
SYDNEY OFFICE: A. M. MURDOCH, Manager MOEEE,
ALSO AT MELBOURNE, BRISBANE, NEWCASTLE, WAGGA, HENTY, HAI,
TOWNSVILLE, CHARLEY,ILLE, BUENOS AIRES, LONDON. D
GENERAL AGENTS IN NEW SOUTH WALES FOR NORTHERN ASSURANCE w-
THE MAN ON
THE LAND
"DON'T WORRY, I'M SENDING IT TO
GRAZCOS."
Handling Ewes.
“R. Ney”: It’s better to own one good
line than a good mixed lot, and it can be
got through regular and severe classing.
Go for the type that gives a strong
frame and a heavy wool cut, with plenty
of lamb-rearing ability. There’s a lot of
satisfaction, apart from profit, in being
able to look over a ewe flock in which
every animal is about the same high
standard.
Just before shearing is the best time
for the small man to class his ewes. Go
for three grades as a general rule. All
large and deep-bodied ewes carrying a
dense, well-grown and even fleece, with
character and color typical of the line,
go as tops. Anything just under that
standard, and as free from faults as pos-
sible, can go as flocks. The remainder,
the light cutters, the roach-backed, the
poor colors, the weak and over-wrinkly,
are culls, to be fattened and sold as soon
as possible. After the ewes are classed,
see that similar type rams are used with
them for mating.
Cast-for-age ewes should be fattened
and sold off with the ancient wethers.
Wethers are seldom any good as wool-
growers after five or six years, and it’ll
be hard to fatten them after they’ve be-
come broken-mouthed and decrepit. It
has always seemed to me that some form
of dealing could be worked with old
sheep between graziers and wheatgrowers.
Generally, the old sheep go cheaply and
the wheat farm is the place to fatten ’em.
After classing, the ewes will go to the
shearing, and after that the blowfly pro-
gramme will begin. It might catch you
with tjie ewes close to lambing, and it’s
a good scheme to have them crutched
and jetted within six weeks of their time.
Get the wool away from inside the legs
and crutch and well up over the tail.
Crutching twice a year increases im-
munity and gives the lamb a great start
and the farmer a higher lamb marking.
Castration of Pigs.
“Pigsmate”: Improper castration (B.
3/ 3 / ’43) can result in abscesses, callous
or roughly healed tissues and partial or
total condemnation of the hams by curers.
Don’t use an old knife; don’t swab
with irritating disinfectant; don’t dump
the wounded pig down on dirty ground.
Have an all-metal razor-sharp knife soaked
in neat lysol for a least an hour before
use, two pairs of artery forceps to clamp
on the blood vessels, scissors to cut away
hair, a clean dish of soapy disinfectant
solution to wash the instruments. Before
cutting, disinfect the scrotum with a solu-
tion of foz. lysol or cresol in one pint
of water.
A lot of disinfectants irritate and tear
down the tissues, making infection easy.
lodine and iodoform have little antiseptic
value; soapy solutions don’t help any
wound streaming with blood ; kerosene,
turpentine, Stockholm tar, etc., are all
bad. If flies are to be kept at bay, smear
some oily antiseptic around the wound
but not on it.
When the job’s done put the animal
down forefeet first to avoid contamina-
tion, and let him run in a clean grassed
yard for an hour or two till a healthy
blood clot forms. Watch him for some
days. If infection sets in, foment the area
with a warm solution of one tablespoon
of dettol or half-teaspoon of lysol to one
pint of water. Abscesses of any size
should be opened surgically at the lowest
point and washed for 10 minutes two
or three times a day in dettol or lysol
solution till they heal.
Castration should be done in cool, dry
weather when there are few flies. Animals
should not be fed for four or five hours
before operating. The adult pig is a
job for a vet.
“Hop in for a fitting, Sarge!”
Peas.
“Hux”: Blue peas should be profitable
in the better rainfall parts of the N.S.W.
wheatbelt east of Temora, Wellington
and Parkes. The variety is in demand
for canning, and is a close relative of the
ordinary field pea.
S.A. farmers c use the common field pea
in the rotation —fallow, wheat, peas,
wheat —in 17in. to 20in. districts. There
peas following wheat yield well and wheat
following peas does much better than
wheat sown on stubble. With this rotation
the land grows three crops every four
years. Peas are one of the best fertilisers.
In S.A., on a holding of (say) 600 acres,
they fallow 150 and sow another 150 to
peas. The remaining 300 go under
wheat, 150 on fallow and 150 after peas.
After the first wheat harvest the stubble
is burned and the land gets a shallow
cultivation. They don’t plough for the
pea crop, but cultivate before sowing, and
sow as soon as the wheat sowing’s finished.
Using a combine, they sow through
every drill, letting the harrows follow;
about H bushels of peas and lewt. of
super, an acre. They roll the land if
the crop is to be harvested for grain.
In districts where wheat averages 15
bushels an acre, the pea yield will be
about 14 bushels. After the pea crop
is off sheep clean up the balance. Usually
two or three cultivations make ready for
the next wheat seeding.
Bulk of S.A. pea grain is used for
sheep. For a ewe flock, before and after
lambing, it’s nourishing. Lambs fed direct
on peas need only 11b. per day ; ilb-
when there’s good grazing. When milk s
scarce, peas provide protein for the pig-
gery, and for dairy cows the grain can
be used as a supplement. It must be
crushed for horse-feed and only 31b. to
41b. fed per day. A good grazing crop will
fatten 10 to 15 lambs per acre, the increase
in weight being about Blb. per month.
Subdivide a pea crop that’s to be
grazed, and don’t let sheep on it after
rain; fallen seeds germinate, set up
stomach troubles and cause deaths.
“Plane Creek”: Poona peas, cowpeas
and crotalaria are the best green-manure
crops. They will succeed in any soil, pro-
vided the surface is scratched.
We cane-farmers just run over the pad-
dock with a disc plough and broadcast the
seed, 401 b. to the acre for Poona pea and
101 b. for crotalaria. We like cowpeas, but
don’t grow ’em to such an extent, since
more seed is required. Having thrown
the seed amongst the stones and lumps
we harrow it in. The plants cover the
ground and hold it during the wet season.
Crotalaria can be mown again and again
and will ratoon indefinitely. Scatter the
mown stuff over the paddock. The other
green manures reach maturity and yellow
off, but cowpea vines yield big crops of
edible peas. Poona and cowpea vines
mix well with grasses in making chaff,
or may be fed whole to stock, but cro-
talaria isn’t much good for that. If the
plants are tall, run the roller over them
before trying to plough ’em in.
The Avocado Pear.
“Pat Ater”: Avocados are being
grown successfully along most of the
Queensland coastal country, especially in
the light fertile valleys. They should go
well on the Northern Rivers (N.S.W.).
Some caution is necessary before plant-
ing. Make sure you are in good avocado
country. The trees are touchy in regard
to climate. That “which will grow
bananas successfully” is a general but
not infallible guide. Avocados stand
slightly more frost than bananas, but not
warm, drying or westerly winds, as their
blossoms set in spring. Then humid con-
ditions must obtain to cover successfully
their very unusual pollination needs.
Many of the varieties do not open the
flowers after a few hours on one morn-
ing till the next afternoon, and they do
this piecemeal. Other varieties reverse
the process. Owing to this habit, Queens-
land Department of Agriculture has
classified its recommended types “A”
and “B,” advising a judicious mixture
when planting the orchard.
H. W. Eastwood, Special Tropical Fruit
Instructor, N.S.W. Department of Agri-
culture, defines the region of possible
successful culture in N.S.W. as from
Tweed Heads to Macksville. “Suitable
climatic conditions are more important
than other factors,” he says.
The Fuerte is the only variety so far
recommended for this area, though others
are under trial, including Spinks, Maya-
pan, Itzama, Queen Dickenson, Pankey,
Anaheim, Linda Dutton and Tahiti seed-
lings. So far Fuerte is outstanding. It has
small seeds, thick, creamy-yellow flesh of
rich nutty flavor. Fruits range from Boz.
to 140 z., and are pear-shaped. Skin,
dull green in color. Trees take six years
or more to reach commercial production.
The avocado is higher in fat content —
about 20 p.c.—than any other fruit
except olives. Also in minerals —average
29.44 p.c.—with bananas, at 25 p.c.,
nearest to it. Protein at 2.1 p.c. is three
times that of apples, pears and citrus. The
fat is as digestible as butterfat, though not
similar in composition. “Avocados are
to green salads what passionfruit is to
fruit salad.”
The Working Horse.
“Clyde”: Don’t let a horse start work
straight after a big feed, and don't give
big feeds during work. Especially keep
him off bulky stuff till the day is done.
A fall or a bad stumble while working
can rupture the diaphragm or the stom-
ach of a horse working with food-packed
organs. Small feeds through the day and
the main feed at night is the rule, and
even then don’t give the night feed until
the horse has rested a bit and got his
digestive machinery back to normal.
Regular feeding and regular work do
more to keep a horse fit and well than
anything else. Overlong spells of work
and overlong intervals between feeds are
more likely to cause colic than bad feed
or excessive water. A two-hour session
of toil and then a spell is about a fair
go for horses on heavy work ; three-hour
sessions and spells on medium to light
work. Take the harness off during the
spell, and give the nag a small snack and
a drink.
Hints for the Farm.
“Goulburn”: Mint weed has caused
heavy stock losses in Queensland and is
highly toxic. Overstocking and rabbits
encourage its spread. When crushed the
plant has a strong sagelike odor. It
should be rooted out wherever it appears.
“W. Court”: Pigs recovering from
respiratory diseases sometimes get the
itch. For dark-colored pigs crude oil
brushed or sprayed on is good, and for
light-skinned pigs use carbolised or ordi-
nary vaseline. Mange, neglected until
it has spread, cannot be cured. It starts
with a reddish scurf on the eyelids, elbows
and knees. This spreads quickly; small
hard growths appear everywhere and
exude oil and matter. Badly affected pigs
should be got rid of and the pens
scrubbed out with boiling water. Then
spray with powerful disinfectants. Burn
all bedding straw. Isolate healthy pigs
which have been sharing the pens with
the mange victims and watch ’em.
“C.S.”: The N.S.W. swine-fever out-
break —it was practically confined to the
County of Cumberland —has just about
been stopped, but pig-owners should
keep a lookout for it. It was the first out-
break for 14 years ; nearly 10,000 pigs
had to be destroyed, and compensation
paid to 15/3 /’43 ran into £38,227.
“Plane Creek” c Queensland Sugar Ex-
periment Stations have shown that borax,
used as a fertiliser, has boosted the
growth of leguminous crops. At Mun-
dubbera Dr. E. Hirschfeld found that not
only did borax quicken the growth ot
peas and beans, but it greatly increased
their resistance to dry conditions. He
found also that borax brought about
earlier seeding in certain crops. In
United States fertilisers and lime had
failed to encourage good, lasting crops
of lucerne in the south-west, where soi
and climatic conditions are similar t
those in our sub-tropics; but borax at
a rate of 101 b. to the acre resulted in
splendid stands over most of the area.
Borax may make lucerne grow better i
our sub-tropics. It is being tested
sugarcane.


mrnm
mmm.
Wmm
m
■ m
m
WmmrnS^mm
I| S '% ||
UIBi
Work—Save —Lend.
Fill the Third Liberty Loan.
SECTIONAL TAXATION
WHICH WILL HARM
PRIMARY PRODUCERS
A bill is before the New South Wales Parliament to impose further
taxation upon country lands, with an exemption of £5OOO unimproved
value. This is on top of the Federal Land Tax, which, during the war,
has been more than doubled. Consider these undeniable facts:-r-
lAs the values of taxed holdings fall,
• so will the value of every small hold-
ing fall with them. The injury winch,
this bill would inflict upon landholders
will be felt also by business houses and
the public at large.
2 This Settlement Promotion Tax Alan-
• agement Bill is class legislation, as
it penalises one section of the people
in order to finance others. Financing
settlers should not be placed on the
shoulders of one class. The Government
should bear the burden.
3 Actually the bill contains no pro-
• vision for the Government to place
one man on the land, either as a pur-
chaser from the Crown or as a Crown
tenant.
4 It is designed to force holders to
• subdivide and sell any way they can,
and to any person, whether a suitable
settler or not.
5 Such a scheme must be haphazard
• because only men with substantial
finance can buy; there is no selection of
the choicest land.
6 A settlement scheme necessarily re-
• quires that suitable men should
occupy the land and that finance should
be available. At present most of the
eligible men are away. Are they to be
left out of any well-organised plan of
land settlement?
7 The aim of the Government appears
• to be to break up the large flocks,
although long periods of years have been
devoted to building up these great
The merino wool tloekh
of New South Wales are the best in Aus-
tralia.
O The Government’s scheme is brought
O. forward without ahy plan to meet
the chaotic marketing conditions which
are inevitable at the conclusion of the
war. This is in spite of the Premier’s oft-
repeated statement that the big problem
of the primary producer is marketing
and distribution.
Because i. believe, that a contented ratal settlement cannot be brought
into being by confiscation and sectional taxation, an ecause
that the people of New South Wales, should appreciate the s.gn,finance
of impending legislation, the abov* facts are published y-
A. C. CHANDLER, for
The landholders’ Defence Committee
ENDEAVOUR HOUSE, SYDNEY.
UNCABLED ADDITIONS
Convoy Close-ups.
[Condensed extracts from “a collection of
notes, jotted down from time to time’ by
escorting corvette commander Nicholas Mon-
sarrat, published in “Harper’s Magazine.”]
Black water, the silhouette of a near-
by ship, the glow from a flare, perhaps
already the flickering lights low down
on the water which mean lowered boats
and rafts. The cox’n passes me on his
way for’ard to take over the wheel; and
1 say “A fine night, ’swain,” and he
says “Let’s drop a few for luck this time,
sir.”
Probably there is a murmur of voices,
some of them angrily blasphemous—we
all realise what those lights on the water
mean ; from long practice we can trans-
late them accurately into loss of life, dis-
ablement, mutilation. Standing ready
in the darkness, we hope for luck and
action.
% * * *
Then I heard the sound we were wait-
ing for. Far away on the other wing of
the convoy a single line of tracer fled
upward; and without an order being
given the crew closed up round their
gun, the safety catch clicked, and the
layer slapped the breech with his mit-
tened hand and said “Come on, Rosie,
win me a medal.”
* * * *
Among the minor trials of the middle
watch are the porpoises which, with relish
and great agility, play submarines at night
—come darting at the ship’s side at right
angles and then pass underneath with a
swirl of phosphorescence. You get used
to April fools after a bit.
* * *
Imagine being on the bridge of a
tanker loaded deep with benzine that a
spark might send sky-high and seeing the
ship alongside struck by a torpedo, or
another torpedo slipping past your stern,
and doing nothing at all about it. Imagine
being a stoker, working half-naked many
feet below the water line, hearing the
crack of explosions, knowing exactly
what they mean, and staying down there
on the job—shovelling coal or turning
wheels* concentrating, making no mis-
takes, disregarding what you know may
be only a few yards away and pointing
straight at you.
No amount of publicity, no colorful
write-ups, no guff about “the little silver
badge,” above all, no medals, can do
honor to men like these. Buy them a
drink ashore if you like, but don’t attempt
an adequate recompense. You won’t get
in the target area.
* * * *
The first thing you notice when a ship
has gone down is a hateful smell of oil
on the water. (We grew to loathe that
smell: as well as a ship sunk, it meant
survivors drenched with fuel oil, cough-
ing it up, poisoned by it.) There is always
an amazing amount of stuff left on the
surface —crates, planks, baulks of wood,
coal dust, doors, rope-ends, odd bits of
clothing—a restless smear of debris on
which the searchlight plays. Here and
there lights may be flickering ; too often
they are not the ship’s boats you are
hoping for, but empty rafts with auto-
matic calcium flares attached to them,
burning uselessly, mute witnesses to dis-
aster.
As soon as you come upon the scene
you feel you must search it all thor-
oughly ; you feel you must prowl round
and miss nothing ; you also know that
you are not the only prowler, that even
as you circle a raft or wait for a laden
boat to come alongside, someone in the
dark outer ring may be taking a sight
of you, preparing as you loiter to run
a fish and teach you the same lesson. Per-
haps among the wreckage a white face
or a raised arm appears —can you afford
to wait, are they worth the risk of sal-
vage, or will one more chance, one more
effort of mercy, forfeit your ship? Already
she is sufficiently in hazard ; how much
margin is there still left?
* * *
In semi-darkness we passed a dead man
floating upright, supported by his life
jacket. We shouted at him, but he stared
back in silence. To cover up, a stoker
called out “So you won’t talk, eh?” and
there was a tiny laugh, a whisper of mirth
drowned in pity.
* * * *
Valuable time is taken up in lowering
a boat and bringing it in again, but it is
often the quickest way of picking up men
in the water. I remember the extraordi-
nary difficulty we had in getting inboard
men who had been in the water for nearly
four hours, who were almost paralysed
with cold, and whose clothes (and in some
cases their naked bodies) were so satu-
rated with fuel oil that it was like trying
to land enormous greasy fish with one s
bare hands.
This particular lot were lucky in hav-
ing life jackets with lights attached to
them; otherwise we should never have
seen them from the bridge in the first
place. These lights—they are small naked
bulbs clipped to the life jacket and con-
nected to a battery in the breast pocket
—have been the salvation of countless
men, and the lack of them must have
been the death of countless more ; a man
in the water at night is almost impos-
sible to see, and his voice, even in still
weather, is lost in engine and water
noises.
* * * *
We once had a negro survivor who
would not strip or let himself be warmed
or drink anything. All he wanted to do
—all he would do—was to curl up in a
ball with his head between his legs and
be left to himself. We covered him up
with a blanket (which he immediately (
drew over his head) and let him lie. The ,
cox’n, looking down at him, said “It’s
his religion, sir,” which for some reason (
seemed a completely fitting explanation. ;
U.S. Catholic on Russia.
(From a U.S. broadcast by Mgr. Fulton
J. Sheen.)
“Because she is on our side Russia
never feels impelled to go into ecstasies
about the glories of democracy ; neither
do I see any reason why, because Russia
is on our side, we should go into ecsta-
sies about Marxian socialism.
“What is making Russia great in this
conflict is not its atheistic Communism
but its love of the Fatherland, its fond-
ness for its earth, its natural asceticism
and self-sacrifice, its deep and righteous
hatred of an invader.
“We want Russia to drive the Nazis
out of their land, we want their people
General MacArthur is thoroughly cap-
able of winning the war in the Pacific.
He should have the opportunity to win
it. He especially should have the means
to win it. General MacArthur should
probably be entrusted with military direc-
tion of the whole American war effort,
and it detracts nothing from any oj our
many other able commanders to say so.
He is a superb military strategist, prob-
ably the peer of them all. He has been
highly successful in all his military
undertakings. He has the confidence of
the people, and is popular with his men
Since he has been delegated to the South
Pacific, he should be permitted to de-
velop his campaign according to his
judgment, and should have forces and
equipment sufficient for it. The South
Pacific is a zone of major and vital war-
fare, and should be the scene of our
greatest military, naval and air concen-
tration. — N.Y. “Journal-American.”
to live in peace with themselves and with
the world ; but we do not want Com-
munism in America or Germany or
Poland any more than we want Nazism
or Fascism. And if anyone doubts the
sincerity of our love for the Russian
Bear, let me say that every Catholic
priest in the world says prayers for
Russia —and that is more than the Com-
munists do! In other words, we Ameri-
can Catholics are for the Russian Bear,
but we are not for the Trojan Horse.
We want the Russian Bear to eat the
swastika, but we do not want the Trojan
Horse to eat the American eagle!”
While Second-Fronters
Yelped.
[Condensed from a “Reader’s Digest’ article
by Don Wharton. The “Digest” says the story
of the planning of the North African cam-
paign is here told for the first time,]
On a Monday morning early last
summer 12 army officers were called to
a secret meeting in the shabby old Muni-
tions Building in Washington. Two hours
later they left, carrying with them the
biggest military secret of our times: the
decision to send an American expedi-
tionary force to North Africa. Fifteen
weeks later, wonderfully equipped Ameri-
can troops from the U.S.A. and from the
United Kingdom landed with split-second
timing at a dozen different points in three
separate areas of French North Africa—
the biggest overseas landing force in
world history.
Services of Supply had to provide
700,000 different items 22,000,000
pounds of food, for example, 38,000,000
pounds of clothing and equipage,
10,000,000 gallons of gasoline. The
Quartermaster Corps had to send seven
pairs of shoes for every soldier with
more pairs to follow every 90 days.
Every American soldier went ashore
with his own individual water-purifying
equipment and with salt tablets to help
combat Africa’s heat. For sprinkling on
wounds each soldier was provided with
sulfanilamide crystals in special envelopes
with shaker tops. Fie was given a pair ol
goggles especially designed for Africa
with two kinds of removable lenses, one
for dust, one for sun.
The immense supply job was compli-
cated by the necessity to keep everything
secret. For instance, manufacturers were
asked to produce mosquito netting with
an unusually small mesh. If that secret
had leaked, the Germans would have
known immediately that our troops were
Africa-bound because so fine a mesh is
used only where there are sandflies. Be-
sides the usual precautions, a pretence was
built up that whatever was going on was
simply another movement to the United
Kingdom. To hide the assembling of
so many ships—number still a military
secret, even though the newspapers said
850 —many were put in dry dock, osten-
sibly laid up for repairs. To prevent
anyone from estimating the destination
by the length of voyage, the ships were
provisioned for a great many more da\s
than they were to be at sea.
Engineer troops at a camp inland piac-
tised loading cargo on to what they called
“the concrete ship.” They loaded all
types —beans to 32-ton tanks from evei y
type of freight car used in the United
States They worked against stop
watches. When they had become expert


riction
Machinery’s Worst Enemy
To-day’s urgent need is the conversion of every available machine
to some form of War production. Output, in sufficient quantity,
depends on it. Every unit of War equipment produced this year
may be worth ten of that produced next year. These are fateful
words—but they are true. The need, therefore, to commission
machinery is only a little greater than the need to ta\e care of it
and to maintain it.
The Arch-saboteur of all working parts of machinery is Friction.
Ignored and unchecked it can quickly sabotage plant and seriously
interfere with production. Means to overcome Friction ... to reduce
wear . . . thus become factors of national importance. It is on a par
with the need for the elimination of Friction in the relations between
Labour and Industry, for, in this realm, too, the elimination of
Friction will result in smoother working and greater mutual rewards.
THE ELECTROLYTIC REFINING AND SMELTING COM-
PANY OF AUSTRALIA PTY. LTD. is contributing to the needs
of Industry by producing the Graphine range of Bearing Metals
of the highest quality Cadmium-Base, Tin-Base and Lead-Base alloys
for all Engineering purposes. The use of Graphine Bearing Metals
will add much to the general efficiency of machine service and
production.
Our anti-friction Bearing Alloy Booklet is a practical manual for
Engineers. It states clearly and concisely how to select the right
alloy and how to run it up. It also gives an account of the
principles underlying the use of Bearing-Alloys. Copies of this
useful Book will gladly be sent on request.
The Company’s technical experts will be glad to advise customers
on Bearing Metal problems.
JA#
ELECTROLYTIC REFINING
and SMELTING COMPANY
OF AUSTRALIA PIY. LTD.
REGISTERED OFFICE: 25 O’CONNELL ST., SYDNEY. B 6371.
MELBOURNE OFFICE:* 360 COLLINS ST. M 4381.
WORKS: PORT KEMBLA, N.S.W.
’Phone; Port Kembla 72.
they were moved to ports of embarka-
tion and tested their technique on several
ships from the convoys-to-be. Then came
the short night and half day which pro-
duced the greatest loading job in modern
war.
That night, just before one ship was
loaded she became unavailable. Right
there in the port was a substitute ship,
standing by precisely for this eventuality
—like a second-stringer waiting on the
football bench.
Alternate rail and highway routes from
troop concentration areas to ports of
embarkation had also been selected. If
saboteurs had destroyed three-quarters
of the bridges in the eastern United States
the troops would still have moved.
Each transport carried a well-rounded,
fully-equipped combat force. For in-
stance, each shipload had the necessary
signal corps quota. This was so the loss
of no one transport could seriously cripple
the operation by taking down with her all
the signal men and equipment.
At Fort Belvoir they built large plaster
models of North African ports and land-
ing beaches —built them so they could be
carried on to transports and studied at
sea by various commanders.
Reports showed routes of principal
water mains that supplied the larger
towns, volumes of streams, locations of
certain wells and even spots where wells
could be drilled.
American construction companies, Con-
sular agents, shipping people and geolo-
gists were consulted to compile this in-
formation. To throw a smokescreen the
Engineers called in as well geologists who
specialised in other areas and pumped
them dry of information about Norway
and Japanese-occupied China.
The Engineers had to provide one kind
of landing craft for the Mediterranean
beaches, another kind for the Casablanca
area. Ordnance designed new equipment
for getting certain heavy weapons from
ship to shore, tried it out at Aberdeen
Proving Grounds, tested it on actual surf
landings, redesigned and then produced
it. The Ordnance Department redesigned
old weapons for the African campaign
and developed some new ones. Ordnance
experts worked with armored troops
training in the California desert. When
the medium tank’s dust filter failed they
designed a new one on the spot.
One of the most important secret
weapons carried was a powerful new tank
destroyer. It was only in the blueprint
stage the day those officers met. Forty-
eight hours later an Ordnance officer was
in Michigan conferring with production
experts at one of our great automobile
plants. He asked them to do the impos-
sible —and they did. The plant was tooled
up in August and the first tank destroyers
completed in September. They were tried
out, delivered to troops, tested in the
field and on the way to North Africa by
late October.
The army’s Postal Service worked out
letter-forwarding plans which clicked so
well that mail from home was actually
landed in North Africa with the troops.
Some troops were reported landing with
highway signs—12 Miles to Algiers —
already painted, presumably aboard ship.
Other units carried plans, down to the
last nail, for prisoner-of-war enclosures.
Military Police units practised processing
prisoners: photographing, fingerprinting,
questioning and describing them at the
rate of one a minute. These units have
men who can question a captured man
in his own language, be it French, Ger-
man, Italian or one of the Arab tongues.
Stockades for expected prisoners were
built over here, to be put ashore the
moment the boats docked.
Following the troops into Africa were
a number of officers specially trained
at the Provost Marshal General’s School
of Military Government at Charlottes-
ville, Virginia, These men had mastered
the details of the civilian organisation of
every city in Morocco and Algeria—its
government, public health system, com-
munications and so on. They were avail-
able for every task-force commander who
wanted help in civil government.
Task forces were even provided with
fireworks. At the last minute they were
requested for use in event of a tactical
situation requiring showing of the Ameri-
can flag at night. Finding that fireworks
manufacturers had switched to war work,
the Services of Supply combed New York
warehouses, located 12 gigantic Stars and
Stripes set pieces and hundreds of other
types of pyrotechnics.
While irresponsible people talked dra-
matically about bringing second-front
pressure on generals, the planners were
silently getting hundreds of thousands of
uniforms impregnated against poison-gas
attacks. They were developing a new one-
man package for getting supplies quickly
ashore, and waterproof crates which
could be floated in to support the first
echelons. They were buying tools with
which natives would later help our Engi-
neer battalions, getting millions of spare
parts ready for guns and tanks and jeeps,
and scheduling shipments so that Box H
arrived at Oran precisely five days after
Box B.
They were also providing for the sick
and wounded who would be coming
home. Up and down the Atlantic sea-
board, hospitals were selected—even the
specific beds. Train schedules were
studied and trains spotted so that no
matter what port a ship brought the
wounded into or at what hour it docked
a hospital train would be immediately
available. While mass meetings were de-
manding a second front the planners were
secretly ordering test runs for their hos-
pital trains. Army men lifted litters on
and off trains to develop stop-watch
timing.
Fortunately, the precise planning as
a whole made the North African opera-
tion run so smoothly that only l-28th of
the hospital space made ready was actu-
ally used.
Dragnet Digest.
(Condensed from various acknowledged
sources .)
It has been disclosed by President Roosevelt
that Japan had 6000 ’planes at the beginning of
this war. Estimates of her losses run to 1500,
but her replacements must have been consider-
able, too. Japan has plenty of fuel available
at near-by bases. Those bases, when cap-
tured, are worth a dozen aircraft carriers.
Unless the American troops, airmen and naval
units in the Pacific get a larger share of
America’s airplane and ship production than
has been allotted, the future may bring some
uneasy days and some serious losses for which
the administration that seems to care more
about Europe than the Pacific must ultimately
take the blame. —Washington syndicate writer
David Lawrence.
* * * *
A section of Gaullists would have liked to
see, landing the very first day in Africa right
behind the Americans, General de Gaulle lead-
ing a contingent of his soldiers, without pro-
nouncing a single word of politics, asking only
a place of honor in combat. In their opinion
his personal prestige would have grown enor-
mously and the heroic and selfless character of
his magnificent movement would thus have been
established in striking fashion in the eyes of
the entire world. And he would very quickly
have gathered its fruits in every field at the
same time. —Fighting French spokesman Henri
de Kerillis, in the U.S. French newspaper “Pour
la Victoire.”
* * * *
A Soviet soldier, on his experiences in the
siege of Stalingrad: “I was lying in a ditch
on reconnaissance. Suddenly I felt what
seemed like water flowing over my body and
face. I realised it was mice, hundreds of thou-
sands of mice scurrying away from Stalingrad.
They filled my pockets and passed softly over
my body. For ten minutes I lay there in terror.
That was my worst moment at Stalingrad.” —
N.Y. “Times:”
V * * *
Instructions have gone out to American
soldiers as to how to behave in foreign parts.
Englishmen don’t like to be called by their
first names at the start of an acquaintance.
The Moors prefer not to have soldiers make
eyes at their wives and daughters: they do
not understand flirtation. The Chinese had
rather not be slapped on the back, but if he
has trouble in pronouncing the word “lallapa-
looza” he can be slapped all over the place,
since he is probably a Japanese spy. The
soldier should not try to hold hands with a
Chinese girl—she will be insulted. So it goes.
— N.Y. “Times.”
Joseph Stalin, Moscow, Russia: Please
call off the Communists in the U.S.A.,
who are trying to high-pressure us into
a third front. It is prejudicing millions
of Communist-hating Americans against
Russia’s brave efforts to free herself from
the German hordes. Russia and the
U.S.A. can get along famously in this
war if you will only issue an order to
English and American Reds shut up
and go to work or “join up.” Note,
Joe, that no Americans in Russia or else-
where are telling the Russian people how
to live. —Benjamin DeCasseres, N.Y.
“Journal-American.”
The U.S. War Department has issued orders
for the formation of a voluntary army unit ol
1500 Americans of Japanese ancestry in the
Hawaiian Islands. The Military Governor or
Hawaii says: “They have behaved admirably
under the most trying conditions and have
bought quantities of war bonds and by the
labor of their hands have added to the common
defence.”— N.Y. “Herald Tribune.
* * * *
The Australian post is particularly difficult
today. Part of Australia’s troops are not
allowed to serve outside certain areas. Aus-
tralia demands of Washington and London
a larger voice in Allied decisions. Aus-
tralia objects to the strategy of making e
war in the Pacific secondary to that in hurop
and Africa. New military and economic ties,
as delicate as they are essential, are
formed between our two countries for victory
and post-war partnership. These are ..
few of the more obvious complicated problems,
which our envoy should know as wtimat
Boss Flynn knows the intricacies of ward-heel
ing in the Bronx. — N.Y. “Sun.
$ * * *
It has been tough to damage Nazi submarine
yards. Hitler was careful to hous f
struction yards under heavy co n c camou I
These massive tunnels not only are well camou
flaged, but are so heavily built that bombs do
little damage. Submarine co p
ceeds during air raids.— N. Y. Mir


■N
It takes a
lot of money
to run a
war!
MEN, machines, and munitions are vital to victory
~. but money is essential that these things may be main-
tained in adequate strength! It takes money—lots of money—
to win a war, and that money can only come from you.
Every pound you can save is vital to Australia’s war effort. Every
pound you can lend—for you’re not asked to give, remember—
will help our fighting forces to victory, and you’ll have your
savings intact for spending in the peaceful post-war years.
SO COME ON AUSTRALIA !
Save and invest ALL you can in the
THIRD
Liberty Loan
£100,000,000
Honda are £lO each and In multiples of £lO.
Two kinds of Bonds are available:—
1. 2i% interest a year—redeemable 1948.
2. 31% interest a year—redeemable 1959,
Yon can pay for your Bonds as follows:
1, Outright.
2. 10% on application and the remainder in
one or three instalments payable before
July 10, 1943,
3. 10% on application and in 9 consecutive
monthly instalments payable on or before
the 10th of each month from May, 1943,
to January, 1944, inclusive.
Interest starts on money paid from the
date of payment. Bonds are realizable in
case of need.
Buy Bonds from any Bank, Sayings Bank,
Stockbroker or Money Order Post Office.
LOAN CLOSES APRIL 20th, 1043.
LL 74-16
M ■
, %
hr
m
&$£&&
■s»f
10 for 1/1
20 for 2/2
they never vary
Give our Fighting Men the
tools of Victory. Invest all
in the Third Liberty Loan.
Carreras Ltd.— ls 4 Years’ Reputation for Quality
g £9OS
Answers to Correspondents
Fame and address must appear on the MS. A’o
debility is undertaken re contributions voluntarily
submitted; and no MS. will be returned unless
stamps accompany. MS. should be addressed to
the Editor.
The Muse aroused:
Bushey:
Glory be to you, Aussie; and cheerio, Yank:
You dived, you zoomed, and you quickly sank
Twenty-two ships
Of the unspeakable Nips.
You then soared like a lark
Above the sea of Bismarck.
E.M.H.:
From authoritative statements from the truly unim-
pressive ;
From urgings from an armchair that campaigns be
more aggressive ;
Prom ponderous announeeemnts of superficial trivia;
From at any rate a few of these, oh may the Lord
delivia!
S.G.: An idea for a poem, written in prose.
Y.D.W.: Slight T.N.: Too clumsy for
epigrams M.F.: It’s not clear who he was,
where he went, why he was going there or
what he did... .H.M.8.: We don’t reprint
H.F.: You don’t need to call the sun “Sol”
to make it poetic E.H.: Rhymes ragged and
thought obscure P.J.Z.: Rumors make poor
propaganda R.P.: A pleasant bunyip, but
he lacks bite J.S.; Snook half-cooked
0.A.: Why use such an archaic vocabulary?
....H.T.8., R.T.S., H.P.S., K.A.A., F.0.H.:
Missed... .M.D.: Not interested in the three
smart girls... .G.H.H.: Never previously in all
our imaginative wanderings over the South
Seas have we encountered vultures D.G.:
Try remaking it into an Other Fellow’s Mind
article.
Service Department.
Information Sought.
— — — J
Where was the locomotive ‘‘Matthew
Flinders” built, and when was it put on the rails ?
It was built at the Newport workshops, N.
S. Wales, was placed in service on March 14,
1928, as Engine S.300, and was named
“Matthew Flinders” on March 17, 1938, after
being streamlined.
A recipe for preserving oranges picked fresh
from the tree ?
Put 12 whole oranges into preserving pan,
just cover with boiling water and boil till very
tender without breaking skin; lift out carefully
on to a sieve. To one pint of the liquid allow
four cups sugar, stir well and boil this syrup for
five minutes. Prick oranges all over deeply with
skewer, plunge into the syrup and boil gently
till clear. Put fruit into wide-necked jars, cover
with the syrup and seal carefully.
How are new varieties of gladiolus evolved ?
Hand-pollination of different colored blooms
is a task for the expert; germination is faulty,
often taking two months, and plants don’t reach
flowering stage for four years. Even then few
of the blooms are worth keeping. Seedlings
must be raised in a glass frame or in a warm
corner in boxes of three parts sand and one part
light soil, mixed.
How to treat old furniture slightly affected
by borer?
Go carefully over the surface of each article
and wherever a hole is found probe it with
a thin steel wire, and with a small oilcan squirt
in a jet of turpentine. Repeat a week later
and plug with putty.
Brief Answers.
L.L.B.: Rates have not yet been finally de-
termined J.S.B.: Local hairdresser might
tell you C.G.B.: Antonio Stradivari died in
1737; your violin is dared 1738. Submit it to
an expert for valuation C.M.: There are
atlases showing the various constellations
P.P.: Department of Agriculture, Farrer-place,
Sydney F.L.S.: If your fruit is hanging over
a neighbor’s fence, you cannot legally prevent
him picking it J.F.: (1) Mixture for mop-
oil: One cup raw linseed oil, one cup turps'
and two cups kero. (2) Quickstrip (still on sale
in Sydney) should clean it M.L.: Height
of water in tank determines pressure... .P.P.;
Equatorial dials, situated at Observatory in
New Delhi, were constructed about 300 years
ago C.H.H.: Gut lines will last far longer
if washed in fresh water after use, and then
dried thoroughly and stored in a cool, dry
place... .P.D.: Yellow two, green three, brown
four, blue five, pink six, black seven, to be
potted in that order W.H.: Squeak due to
friction between inner and outer soles. Stand
sole only in linseed oil for a few hours....
S.T.: A heliograph is an apparatus used for
signalling. The method involves the use of a
mirror to flash light in dots and dashes
D.W.: Keep lids on tins when not in use, as
arsenic pentoxide will draw in moisture from
air, thus causing the incorrect weights you
mention E.M.: For lino, polish: One pint
methylated spirits, 2oz. orange shellac and 2oz.
resin (both pulverised). Shake together till dis-
solved. Ready in two days, and must be kept
well corked. Have no recipe containing paraffin.
C.C.: Fighter Pilot, published by Angus
and Robertson G.R.: In the event of a
death at sea, it is a matter ror the master's
discretion. If ship is within reasonable dis-
tance of its normal port of call, then the body
is usually brought ashore... .S.D.: Such passes
are issued to members of the press. Doubtful
if a freelance journalist could obtain one
P.T.: By starting with one grain of rice and
by doubling up on each consecutive square of
a chessboard, you would, on the last square,
have an impossibly large store of rice. Actually
the amount would be about 2,300,000,000,000
tons L.T., R.C.H. and H.W.R.: Information
on its way A. 1.5.: The native name for those
hills near Gloucester is “Buccans,” hence “The
Buckets” D.L.: Paving paint is not avail-
able W.T.E.; Australia has approximately
119,000,000 sheep... .L.L.: Concise English
Course, by Urquhart, ought to improve his
composition V.H.: Would probably get
best value from sale by auction J.C.: As the
wheels are dished, remove tyre and straighten
spokes. Then you will see how much the tyre will
need to be enlarged C.M.: To clean super,
bags, soak well in limewater, then wash in fresh,
T.H.: E is the most common letter. Hence,
if a code has a symbol appearing more than any
other it is probably e. From this clue other
letters can be found T.D.; Coal strikes are
illegal unless authorised by Miners’ Federation.
8.K.: Try Kodaks, 379 George-street, Syd-
ney E.G.: Primavera is by Windbag-Flower
of Egypt K.S.: The male’s eyes appear to
meet in front, while the female blowfly’s are
distinctly apart A.8.H.: No truth in that
fable M.P.: A snake has lungs, protected
by ribs T.W.: The coil springs would re-
quire no lubricating A.F.S.: A ferrotype
plate is a highly enamelled thin iron sheet used
in photography nowadays only for glazing prints.


Illustrating
the LUDOWICI
PIVOT DRIVE
LUDOWIC IS
have the answer
BEHIND the fine quality and the assurance of maximum efficiency in
Ludowici Power Transmission Equipment, stand Ludowici Technicians
—men whose knowledge and experience of every power transmission re-
quirement enable them to give a ready answer to your particular problem.
Our reputation has been built on our willingness to give an unbiassed
opinion and to recommend and supply the most suitable equipment for
each power transmission application.
You have only to ask for our advice to have it freely given.
J. C. LUDOWICI & SON LTD.
117 YORK STREET, SYDNEY
★
•'Hi*
COUPLINGS
SHAF T I N G
GEARS & HANGERS
w
LUDOWICIS
VftL§/FP
TRANSMISSION
EQUIPMENT
Evidence of
INTEGRITY and SECURITY
Essential when appointing your Trustee.
\Y/HEN you appoint an Executor and Trustee under your YHI you s
W satisfy yourself as to his integrity and that he has a background o ■
perience in'handling Estates. You will he wise to assure yourself that you
Estate will be secure in his hands. ootmroll
When you appoint Perpetual Trustee Company Limited you can nt
on both points. In the management of Estates it
gained by 60 years’ experience. Unlike most individuals, it has la g -_ P
and reserve funds with consequent financial stability and responsibil }.
Send for a copy of “Your Executor and Trustee,” which explains the Company .
service.
PERPETUAL TRUSTEE COMPANY, LIMITED
DIRECTORS: T. H. Kelly (Chairman); Hon. T. A. J. Pla 7 fai rnrdnn’ C ' ’ E ’ B ’ KU ° S ’
H. Norman Pope; Allen C. Lewis; W. Deuchar Gordon Manage r.
H. Y. Douglass, Managing Director. . A V J? “ 'thers
Executor and Trustee, Agent under Power of Attorney for Absentees a .
Administrator, etc.
Trust and Agency Funds under Administration exceed £6o,uuu,uuu.
33-39 HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY.
Southern and Riverina District Representative: O B. Cowdery> Strert Jagga <* •
Western District Representative: H A Shaw. 140 Lord s i lace. uran o e.
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
British Tobacco Co. (Australia), Ltd.
Dividends N Nominal
12 Mths. Pref. Ee-
to Oct., Profit. 6-4 p.e. Ordinary. serves.
1932.. 585,299 96-,507 6 p.e. = 488,068 31,085
1933.. 585,611 96,507 6 „ „ 488,068 32,121
1934.. 585,850 96,507 6 „ ~488,068 33,396
1935.. 585,950 96,507 6 „ ~ 488,068 34,771
1936.. 667,761 96,507 7 „ „ 569,412 36,613
Special div. subsidiaries, £307,170 .. 343,783
Cash bonus (3J p.e.), £305,042 .. 38,741
1937.. 911,386 96,507 10 p.e. = 813,446 40,174
1938.. 911,479 96,507 10 „ „ 813,446 41,700
British Tobacco and Subsidiaries.*
1939.. 915,951 96,507 10 p.e. = 813,446 1,200,708
Unexplained additions, £126,960 ..1,327,668
1940.. 990,140 101,401 10 p.e. = 862,944 1,353,463
Unexplained additions, £ll2l ..1,354,584
1941.. 978,088 111,188 9 p.e. = 843,474 1,378,009
Unexplained addition, £lOO7 .. .. 1,379,016
1942.. 983,187 111,188 9 p.e. = 843,474 1.407,541
* After deducting outsiders’ equity in profits and
reserves.
The reserves shown are subject to good-
will, etc,, of £3,969,610, of which
£1,276,317 appeared following the Car-
reras deal two years back, when B.T.
thought it worth while to eliminate com-
petition from that quarter even on terms
which required it to spar up £1,463,335
in a mixed parcel of its own scrip for
the £200,000 of Carreras ords. However,
the £2,366,970 reserved for depreciation
in the consolidated accounts is liberal
allowance for the purpose, the “provi-
sion for taxation, etc.,” tossed in with
creditors may be another camouflaged
strongpoint, and there are evidences of
conservative profit-writing in other nooks
and crannies to complete the defence
system.
With five main operating subsidiaries,
controlled by a holding co., the British
Tobacco group occupies a dominant
position in the Australian tobacco indus-
try, and there are valuable overseas
affiliations. Only the B.H.P. and C.S.R.
have larger capitalisations. The pups
include W. D. and H. O. Wills, British-
Australian Tobacco, States Tobacco Co.,
Carreras and S. T. Leigh and Co., the lot
representing practically a self-contained
combination. Of the working cos.’ figures,
those of Carreras, in which £68,000 prefs.
are still publicly held, are the only ones
released separately. Last year, after
meeting its own pref. requirements, the
balance of Carreras earnings fell from
10 p.e. to 6.3 p.e. on the price B.T. paid
for the ords. But the £53,690 profit de-
cline shown there finds no echo in
consolidated p. and 1. figures. Admitted
group profit, indeed, was £5099 higher
after allowing for divs. to outsiders. The
£983,187 was enough to pay £lll,lBB in
respect of B.T. pref. divs. and then leave
9.3 p.e. for the rest of capital, of which
£8,753,196 is in ords, and £618,737 in B
shares, deferred as to return of capital.
The 9 p.e. of the previous term was
repeated. Depreciation struck off was
£110,396 (down £9117), and £lOO7 was
also slipped from somewhere into re-
serves.
Obviously, restriction of monthly retail
deliveries last term to 75 p.e. of those
for the year to Sept. 30, 1940, was com-
pensated for by service requirements, in-
cluding releases to the Red Cross, and
issues to special classes of workers ; while
concentration of production into popular
lines and packing economies helped
restrain costs, of which excise was the only
increase recovered in price adjustments.
While controlling smokes manufacture,
the Government shies at undertaking
equitable rationing of consumption. In-
stead, State committees referee distribu-
tion among retailers, who are then left
to work out their own salvation.
The big problem at the moment is to
maintain supplies of leaf. The full order
has been purchased in America, chairman
Massie says ; the problem is to find space
for it among urgent war cargoes to the
South-west Pacific operational area. The
favorable stock position of the B.T.
family at the end of October is not all it
seems, owing to lifts in excise, and has
been considerably depleted since these
figures were taken out:
1939. 1941. 1942.
Paid capital .. £9,619,186 £11,082,521 £11,082,521
Outside shares* 18,854 88,376 89,055
Deprec. reserve. . 1,985,489 2,268,884 2,366,970
Creditors! . . 621,631 1,656,325 1,977,576
Freeholds .. 1,138,241 1,221,923 1,227,455
Plant, etc. . . 1,470,620 1,622,855 1,655,134
Stock . . . . 6,625,660 4,9'58,969 6,195,405
Debtors.. .. 1,246,264 1,639,708 1,734,700
Investments . . 309,922 1,135,121 1,587,111
Cash . . . . 124,557 2,019,649 647,967
Goodwill, etc. . . 2,693,293 3,969,610 3,969,610
* Including proportion reserves. t Including tax
provision, etc.
Hence in February shop deliveries were
reduced to 65 p.c ; of basic-year pur-
chases, and favore’d munition workers
had their weekly allotments cut from
3oz. to 2oz. per male smoker ; service
men had earlier been put on a fixed
ration. Production of the right-quality
Australian leaf blended, it meets
around a quarter of Commonwealth needs
—will be lighter this season, too, and
appraisement prices will be 21 p.e. higher
than in the ’4l table of limits. This and
the dear cost of Virginian leaf will also
adversely affect current figures. To stretch
out imported supplies, a reduction in the
proportion of high-grade tobaccos has
been accompanied by expansion in out-
put of cheaper lines.
A. G. Healing, Ltd.
, Dividends v
Pref. Towards Ee-
June, Profit. 8 p.e. Ord. Eeserves. serves.
1932.. 7,669 5984 Nil 1,685 1,501
1933.. 10,410 5984 2.1 p.e. = 3,536 890 2,391
1934.. 24,194 5984 6.6 „ ~ 10,607 7,603 9,99'4
Added intangibles, £B9 . . • - 9,905
1935.. 27,553 5984 7.5 p.e. =11,933 9,636 19,541
Net addition intangibles, £7O .. 19,471
Share premiums, £3824 .. •• 23,295
, Pref. Ord.
8 p.e. 6 p.o. 84 p.e.
£ £ £ £ £ £
1936.. 30,276 5984 1944 15,397 6,951 30,246
Net addition intangibles, £5Bl . . 29,665
9 p.e.
1937.. 32,464 5984 3012 17,550 5,918 35,583
8 p.e.
1938.. 35,052 5984 3012 15,600 10,456 46,039
Prom tax reserve, £3437 .. .. 49,476
4 p.e.
1939.. 13,202 5984 3012 7,800 45,882
A. G. Healing and Subsidiaries.
6 p.e.
1940.. 27,883 5984 3012 11,700 7,187 63,873
8 p.e.
1941.. 28,730 5984 3012 15,600 4,134 58,007
1942.. 35,800 5984 3012 15,600 11,204 69,211
This co. developed in a big way as a
wholesaler of motor accessories, bicycles,
radios, steel-tube furniture and the like.
From headquarters in Melbourne acti-
vities spread to Sydney, Adelaide and
elsewhere. When Japan turned nasty the
co. was manufacturing much of its own
requirements, a policy that is now bear-
ing fruit.
A good and luscious crop was gathered
last year, when sales were a record.
Goods supplied for defence and essential
services represented the greater portion
of turnover. One product of particular
importance is a capstan lathe, made under
the patents of the British Albert Hedley
works. Lathes are the machines in
a great part of Australia’s munitions pro-
duction. Rate of gross earnings com-
pared with pre-war years was therefore
lower, but, despite rising costs, a shrink-
age in the ratio of expenses to turnover
was achieved by prudent management.
Profits bettered only once in 15 years
were uncovered. After providing £9BOl
(up £1415) for depreciation, setting aside
£27,695 (up £7192) for taxes and allow-
ing for minor movements in reserves and
so on, net earnings of the co. and its
pups are figured at £35,800 (up £7070).
That was sufficient to pay £8996 divs. on
pref. shares and show 13.7 p.e. on ord.
capital, compared with 10.1 p.e. the year
before. Ord. payout was 8 p.e., as in
1941, leaving £11,204 for reserves.
Finances are better:
A. G. Healing and Subsidiaries.
1939. 1940. 1941. 1942.
Paid capital. . £320,000 £320,000 £320,000 £320,000
Overdraft .. 59,346 96,137 71,477 48,271
Mortgages and
loans . . 128,360 118,800 120,870 120,752
Sundry creditors 96,283 103,766 142,366 115,703
Tax reserve.. 3,535 9,510 18,699 34,779
Freeholds, etc. 120,198 118,451 117,208 123,082
Plant, etc. . . 45,924 42,479 53,035 51,123
Stocks. . . . 273,305 332,131 363,112 362,904
Book debts . . 230,297 228,374 214,480- 184,585
Cash, etc. . . 6,506 6,272 15,631 16,973
Though jigs, tools and fixtures for lathe-
making are reputed to have cost £lO,OOO,
apart from the five extra foundries placed
in commission, the book value of plant
suggests that the outlay was nearly all
met in the previous year. Stocks are a
hefty item ; but they are valued on a
conservative basis, declares the board.
Debtors owe £29,895 less, and the inflow
of cash here helped in snipping £23,206
off the overdraft and £26,663 off the
amount coming to sundry creditors. The
more or less liquid surplus stepped up
£21,226 to £279,736.
The public became interested in 1926.
Five years later, in 1931, a loss of £23,902
showed up, but that and £27,500 of good-
will account were promptly cut by wip-
ing ss. per share (£53,035) off the ords.
Goodwill now figures at £16,000, not in-
cluded as an asset herein. Shareholders
have since fared reasonably well, and the
undertaking has been considerably
strengthened, visibly and otherwise.
Goodyear Tyre and Rubber Co.
t Dividends >,
Pref. Ord. To E&- Ee-
Dec., Profit. 8 p.e. 16 p.e. serves, serves.
£ £ £ £ £
1933.. 140,820 24,000 80,000 36,820 365,775
Eeserves capitalised. £250,000 .. 115,775
12 p.e.
1934.. .223,001 24,000 60,000 139,001 254,776
8 p.e.
1935.. 66,751 24,000 60,000 237,527
4 p.e.
1936.. 190,421 24,000 30,000 136,421 373,948
16 p.e.
1937.. 157.543 24,000 120,000 13.543 387,491
26 p.e.
1938.. 243.251 24,000 195,000 24,251 411,742
Additional taxation, £31,000 .. 380,742
16 p.e.
1939.. 146,303 24,000 120,000 2,303 383,045
Tax reserve brought back, £13,150.. 396,195
24 p.e.
1940.. 114,082 24,000 180,000 306,277
12 p.e.
1941.. 134,112 24,000 90,000 20,112 326,389
14.6 p.e.
1942.. 134,702 24,000 110,000 702 327,091
The new Federal Controller of Rubber
—a late appointment—is C. S. Butt,
former executive director of Olympic and
Commonwealth Controller of Tyres,
whose job is to regulate local use, con-
sumption and production of the elastic
commodity. Loss of 90 p.e. of world-
producing rubber centres has necessitated
drastic consumption economies pending
full attainment of America’s 800,000-ton-
p.a. synthetic programme in 1944 or
thereabouts. Even this output will not
amount to much more than half 1941
shipments of the natural article ; cultiva-
tion of guayale on a large scale, Amazon
wild rubber and reclaim are meantime
being looked to to help things along, while
a small but useful 1500 tons p.a. of natural
rubber can be expected again from Aus-
tralia’s own Papua. Tyre manufacturers,
etc., are also having raw-material diffi-
culties in matters like cotton, carbon
black, zinc oxide and sulphur.
Depleted as it already was by petrol-
rationing and restrictions on chassis im-
ports —the number of motor vehicles on
Australian roads declined from 819,034
to 762,368 in the year to Dec., 1942 -
normal trade demand was further affected
last year by rationing priorities under
which all tyres and tubes are reserved
for essential users. Many of the long
list of domestic and industrial lines were
also eliminated or reduced in order to
maximise the flow of rubber and com-
posite equipment to fighting men and
machines.
The magnitude of these defence
orders kept this successful Sydney
offshoot of Goodyear Tire and Rubber
(U.S.), which set up in 1926 to get behind
the tariff, fully occupied last year. Sav-
ings in selling, operating and advertising
exes, more than offset loss of normal trade
and low margins at which service con-
tracts are fulfilled, leaving the co. able
to provide £31,216 more for depreciation
(£97,738) and £153,400 (up £42,400) for
taxation without disturbance to net profit.
The £134,702 disclosed times covered
the div. charge on the Australian-held
prefs. ; 14.7 p.e. was again available for
the ords., held by the American parent,
and practically the whole of it was
passed on.
The co.’s rapid establishment in the
face of keen competition reflects the
quality of its products and the beneficial
effects of a liberal depreciation policy-
all fixed assets have been written down
to 25 p.e. of cost—on efficiency and
costs:
1938. 1940. 1941. 1942.
Pref capital. . £300,000 £300,000 £300,000 £300,000
Ord.' capital. . 750,000 750,000 750,000 750,000
Goodyear(U.S.) 54,800 ~~
Other liabs... 146,583*. 205,164 558,756 96,023
Tax reserve . . 162,018 245,867 200,346
Freeholds, „„
plant, etc... 407,063 338,136 347,66/ 314,490
Stock .. 683,857 1,023,398 1,313,522 752,844
Book debts .. 298,008 330,408 474.643 230,173
Cash, etc. .. 80,501 72,889 51,151 387.26 S
Java stibsid.. . 197,300
* Including taxation, etc.
Stocks (down £560,678) would have been
exhausted now but for the management s
vision in accumulating reserve supplies
when trouble threatened. As it is, their
monetary value is still in excess of pre-
war dimensions. As a transport ration-
alisation measure, local tyre cos. have


DAVIES & COLLISON, Patent Attorneys, Collins
House, 360 Collins Street, Melbourne, C.l. Austra-
lian and overseas Patents and Trade Marks. —Advt.
* * * *
INVENTORS. —Have you an idea worth patenting?
Griffith, Hassel and Griffith, Patent Attorneys,
Asbestos House, Cr. York and Barrack Streets, Sydney,
obtain Commonwealth and foreign patents.— Advt.
CAPSTAN
The Empire’s
Favourite Cigarette
Money Buys Munitions.
COME ON, AUSTRALIA!
Let’s fill the THIRD LIBERTY LOAN.
19550-11.41 |
INVEST IN WAR BO NDS
mk
m
4 >
UMITtO
PRESENTS THE
FASHION CAR OF 1943
The huge presses that once shaped the tough steel
armour for R.I. Motor Bodies are now working day
and night, turning out with speed and precision
millions of steel ammunition boxes. But these
presses, and the craftsmen who man them are ready,
when the time comes, to fashion again the gleaming,
powerful ‘Body by Richards.’
RICHARDS
INDUSTRIES || LIMITED
PLANNING FOR PEACE WHILE GEARED FOR WAR!
R 243
RANG
Form a Group! Join a Group! Buy War Savings Certificates.
decided to divide their territories, Good-
year’s and Dunlop’s Sydney plants cater-
ing for N.S.W. and Queensland require-
ments and Dunlop’s and Olympic’s south-
ern plants for other States. The savings
here should help cushion any contraction
in turnover.
Samuel Allen and Sons, Ltd.
f-* Dividends
p re f. Towards
June, Loss. 8 p.c'. Ord. Reserves. Deficit.
£ £ £ £ £
1932. .165,978 Nil Nil 161,737
Premiums on leases, £1963.. •• 1j9,7i4
Profit. ~. rPQ
1933.. 16,206 Nil Nil 149 > 568
Reserves.
Capital written off, £150,000 .. 432
Premiums on leases, £3387 ■ ■ 3,81 J
1934.. 15,284 Nil Nil 19 ’1^
Premiums on leases, £4209 .. • • 23,31-.
16.2 p.c.
1935.. 16,287 23,145* Nil 16,454
10 p.c.
1936.. 16,292 14,571 Nil 1,721 18,170
Premiums on leases, £482 . . . • 18,657
1937.. 20,084 14,571 2i p.c. = 5,803 18,367
Premiums on leases, £1317 .. •• 19,684
1938.. 24,180 14,571 3£ p.c. = 8,705 904 20,588
Premiums on leases, £2369 .. .. 22,957
6 p.c.
1939.. 22,466 8,571 3f p.c. = 8,705 5,190 28,147
Premiums on leases, £1265 .. .. 29,412
Taxation charged reserves, £6416 .. 22,996
1940. . 19,347 8,571 Nil 10,776 33,772
Premiums on leases, £1204 .. .. 34,976
1941.. 14,407 8,571 2i p.c. = 5,804 32 35,008
To tax reserve, £lO,OOO .. .. 25,008
From reserves re leases, £3490 .. 21,518
1942.. 14,490 8,571 2$ p.c. = : 5,804 115 21,633
From reserves re leases, £lO,OOO .. 11,633
* Two years at 6 p.c. p.a., plus £6OOO on account
of arrears.
Closing chapter of the slump story was
probably written last term, when the co.’s
Sydney premises were sold for cash. An
unstated loss thereon was written off
against reserves, says the board. Slump
troubles previously encountered and dealt
with comprised trading losses of £186,335,
four years’ drought as to pref. divs. and
a writing-down by £150,000 of capital,
both prefs. and ords. The share-register
now totals £375,000, in 71,428 first and a
like number of second prefs. and 232,144
ords. Preferred as to div. only, the prefs.
used to be 8 p.c. issues ; they now carry
6 p.c., participating beyond that rate with
the ords., a right that has not yet proved
worth anything.
Operations are now concentrated in
North Queensland, where a large wine,
spirit and general merchandising business
is transacted from Townsville headquar-
ters. Gross earnings last - term were
£145,919 (down £11,030). Exes. (£131,429)
proved accommodating with a drop
of £11,113. Net of £14,490 disclosed
was enough to pay the prefs. 6 p.c.
and show 2.5 p.c. on ord. capital. That
does not allow for £lO,OOO taken from
the reserve for unexpired hotel leases.
Whatever was charged for taxation isn’t
separated from other exes., but a reserve
for the purpose of £lO,OOO created
at the previous balance is existent.
Again a full distribution of earnings was
made, the ords. getting 2y p.c. In the
absence of any internal provisions, the
feeling intrudes that recent surpluses after
meeting pref. requirements would have
been better retained in the business.
Emergency supplies held under
National Security Regulations represent a
new item of £16,701 in finances, and are
included with stocks in the figures below:
1930. 1937. 1941. 1942.
Paid capital.. £525,000 £375,000 £375,000 £375,000
Overdraft .. 121,341 137,771 150,503 130,425
Sundry creditors 83,491 89,505 134,477 149,025
Properties and
plant . . 243,529 305,856 378,217 357,409
Shares, etc.* 14,623 64,718 59,037 46,716
Stocks . . 99,103 55,750 82,298 71,903
Book debts . . 405,175 234,666 188,022 214,009
Cash . . . . 313 300 420
* Includes amount invested in retail stores.
While the overdraft has been chiselled
down £77,271 since 1940, the amount
coming to trade creditors in the same
period has lifted £45,354. The property
sale helped finances last year. Excluding
shares, but not £24,430 invested in retail
stores, the more or less liquid surplus
(£41,312) strengthened £18,921.
Prospects are for a better showing at
the next balance. For seasonal and other
reasons. North Queensland is a busy
centre these days, and no doubt a good
share of the business offering is going the
co.’s way. Still, replenishment of stocks
constitutes an ever-present and particu-
larly difficult problem to traders in the
North.
Maoriland gold-dredgers, Austral N.Z.
and Ngahere, which got away to a poor
start (Ngahere particularly so), can point
to improved yields since the close of their
last accounts. Austral N.Z. is talking
about a “much better ratio of recovery as
compared with boring results” and “sub-
stantial profit” in the intervening 20
weeks. The local debt is now out of the
way, and an early start is predicted on
reduction of the sterling one, which was
the equivalent of £NZ89,387 at October
31, Ngahere returns have improved from
I.3gr. for the year to Dec. 31, when out-
side liabilities amounted to £40,162, to
I.sgr. Profit for the latest period was
£18,721, and appropriation account bene-
fited by £l5OO in respect of unpaid
directors’ fees waived. On that basis,
shareholders after six years have prob-
ably another two-year wait for their
investment to become remunerative. Per-
haps longer, as the gold industry enjoys
priority for neither labor nor materials
in the Dominion. Efforts are being made
to change the Government’s attitude.
Meantime, vital spares have become
“almost impossible to obtain,” Austral
N.Z. says.
Jfc * *
Bulolo Gold Dredging, Placer’s 30 p.c.-
owned associate with eight dredges in
New Guinea, has lodged a preliminary
claim with the War Damage Commission
amounting to £A538,426 in respect of
stores and fixed assets. Damage on such
a scale will be a considerable impedi-
ment to eventual full-scale resumption of
operations. Local investors are inter-
ested through Guinea Gold, original
vendor, as well as through Placer.
* * * *
“O.B.”; As a shareholder in Great
Boulder I rejoice at the prospect of a
new independent board taking over
from the voluntary liquidator. Before
liquidation the directors were Claude de
Bernales (chairman and managing), ex-
Westralian Governor knight William
Campion, A. H. Collier (also on the Lake
View and Wiluna boards and an Adel-
aide broker in the Kalgoorlie boom days),
B. C. Westall (a little-known Londoner)
and G. Martin Turner (a bright, middle-
aged ex-finance newspaperman asso-
ciated with De Bernales). All, it is under-
stood, are willing to retire. Successors
tipped in the event of a new board being
formed include several who already have
seats on other London-controlled West-
ralian goldmining shows, and one or two
with South African connections,
* * * *
Wiluna Gold Mines (W.A.), at 36,500
tons, treated 4772 tons less in February
than in January, and 7968 tons less than
in December. February yield at 4467
fine ounces was 3380 z. short of that for
January and 5530 z. below that for
December. It didn’t pay. Co. recently
ran short of certain requisites, and,
but for fluking an additional three
months’ supply would probably have had
to cease operations. As regards the
future, it is nervously hoping for the
best. March ends the financial year.
* * * *
Instead of getting a liquidation divi-
dend, contributing shareholders of Metro-
politan Mining and Development (W.A.),
a limited-liability co., are being stirred up
for payment of 3s. balance owing on
19,722 £1 shares. A gloomy report from
its consulting engineer decided the co.
to wind up. One of its leases. Morning
Star, which the Mines Department took
away and gave to Swan Bitter, because
of non-fulfilment of labor conditions, has
just been turned down by Hill 50, N.L.,
to whom Swan Bitter gave an option.
Swan Bitter’s official spokesman had
boosted it as a great thing ; the Hill 50
diamond-drill core in the main lode below
400 ft. indicated that it wasn’t.
* * * *
Linton Thorp (chairman) at the London
meeting of Tindals (W.A.): —
With the aid of a State Government £30,000
loan arrangements were made to increase
capacity of the ore-treatment plant to 10,000
tons a month. Unfortunately, when the job
was almost completed threatened Jap invasion
caused the Federal Government to transfer
labor from goldmines to other work, and in
the case of Tindals hands were shortened by
more than 50 per cent. Position today was
that the co., with a treatment plant of 10,000
tons a month capacity almost completed and
nearly half a million tons of ore reserves,
was marking time by milling approximately
3000 tons a month at a profit barely sufficient
to meet current commitments in Westralia and
London. It was in the best interests of share-
holders to continue operations rather than
close down for the duration, which would
involve expenditure in dewatering, opening up
and re-establishing the mining and administra-
tive organisation now in being. Co. had
labored for four of its six years’ existence
under the shadow of war. This handicap had
been the mam cause which had prevented the
development and expansi<m, with correspond-
ing profits, originally envisaged.
A report by A. J. Bensusan, mining
engineer, dated May, 1942, stated;
Taking a long view of mine prospects as a
whole, 1 am no less impressed than I was
when making my report in 1940 as to the
mine’s great potentialities, given the present
price of gold and ample labor. In fact, Tindals
is potentially a very fine proposition indeed
for large-scale operations, as there is likely
to be almost unlimited supplies of ore for
many years. The mine is holding good in the
deepest levels.
Owing to war effects the £25,000 of 10
p.c. notes due for redemption at a 12
p.c. premium on June 30 will not be re-
paid. A meeting of note-holders is to be
convened.
* * * *
Burbidge Gold Mines (W.A.) has given
up. Reason: impossibility of profitable
operations owing to scarcity of efficient
labor and other difficulties. Mine is being
put on a maintenance basis until better
times.


&
WAR LOAN
■
m
War-time creates shortages.
Take care of your Feltex
and invest in
Commonwealth Savings Bonds.
Felt and Textiles of Australia Ltd.
Manufacturers of
FELTEX
Floor Coverings
i
'THAT
S-
rnE
WHAT IS YOUR
TIME WORTH?
One of the major problems to-day is to find time to give proper attention to
one's personal financial affairs —time which must be spent, very often, at the
expense of earning capacity. And not only time, but worry and nervous
strain. In these particularly anxious times, with all their complications and
problems, it would be a very great advantage to you to be relieved of the
necessity for worrying about your personal financial affairs. Let Burns Philp
Trust Company Limited relieve you of the details of administration of your
estate. During your lifetime and afterwards, this Company will give unin-
terrupted, faithful, and efficient service.
If you are interested in learning details of the service which this Company
can render to those anxious to be relieved of the burden of administration of
their affairs or estate, two special books will be sent on request. Write
for them now.
DIRECTORS—James Burns - Robert John Nosworthy - Lewis Armstrong - Joseph Mitchell
Manager—C, H. Chester
Burns Philp Trust
COMPANY LIMITED
7 BRIDGE STREET. SYDNEY
PHONE: B 7901. Box 543 B. G.P.0., Sydney.
BP 13-43
Business, Rollery, Etc.
Phony Security
Whatever the way of life active pro-
ducing and consuming mortals seek in
this world, whatever the security they
may hope to achieve during their work-
ing life and afterwards, the way they fare
in these respects must depend on the
ability of their country (which includes
themselves) to provide them with living
standards as well as security in retire-
ment, unemployment and ill-health. It
is, firstly, a matter of “whether the coun-
try can stand it,” and, secondly, of
whether the country will stand it. Thirdly,
it is necessary to bear in mind always
that security is relative, never absolute,
No person is assured of anything in this
world except a final exit from it. But
in endeavoring to win whatever approach
to security man may reasonably expect
as a living being some of the finest and
most estimable aspects of his character
are revealed. And from his efforts in the
way of thrift have come great national
achievements.
The question of whether a country
can stand any particular expense is not
one entirely of pounds, shillings and
pence. When some “social security”
scheme is advocated it may be knocked
back on the ground of the cost involved,
and immediately there may be sneers
from the Wards, and other blowhards
from the Labor side to the effect that
Capitalism cannot afford social security
but it can afford to pay for tremen-
dously costly wars. Of course, Mr. Ward
is a born trouble-maker, and creating
trouble and strife is part and parcel of
his political technique. There are many
more politicians of his kidney all over
the world, and, while making the gibe
about the expenditure on war but not
on social security, they do not point out at
the same time that the expense of war is a
cost to everyone, and that in peace-time,
at a present cost to everyone, some plan
for future economic security can also be
devised. The half-truths and sophistic
wisecracks of snaky politicians have had
more to do with the obstruction of the
onslaught on social insecurity than any-
thing that can be laid at the door of Capi-
tal. basis of Capitalism is, in fact,
sodal and economic security. It is sav-
ing for the future that makes a man a
capitalist.
' £ s - d. aspect of social security
represents organisation towards that end
rather than the substance of it. As in
providing for a war programme, it is
not enough merely to find the money;
B°ods and services have to be there
as wed - We are finding at present in
the management of the war effort that
money provided in the wrong way is of no
permanent benefit to the cause. In fact,
if were not for the artificial controls
exercised over prices by Professor Cop-
land and his staff the buying power now
being obtained by the Government
through the use of bank credit would
have been offset very rapidly by an equal
or greater inflation in prices. And our
wa r effort, again, is limited to our re-
sources in man-power and materials. On
them is our whole money and credit sys-
tem based.
Therefore, away from war, our present
living standards and future security de-
pend considerably upon how we can
develop and use our man-power and
materials now and reserve some of that
development for future benefits. So far
as retirement pensions are concerned, the
thing will resolve itself into a matter of
passing on to posterity development,
knowledge and other worked-for values
of a permanent nature in return for a
share in posterity’s production later on
of the essentials of life. In other words,
it is no use merely to establish a money
fund now and pass that on to the future
as a source of sustenance for the people
who are growing old. That fund may
easily lose its value through inflation
caused by unwise political interference in
economic matters. To be fair to poster-
ity finance has to be managed wisely, and
for posterity to be able to honor our
pension rights without undue hardship
to itself a pension fund must not be solely
in the nature of a liability ; it must have
a backing in some kind of national assets
created in the working life of the pen-
sioners. It may be that some people of
the present day consider that the sacri-
fices of this war place posterity under an
obligation to them. But the present sac-
rifices, financially, are not being squarely
accepted by the Australian Government
or its principal followers, with the result
that our entire financial future may be
jeopardised. Further, both this and the
last generation have had a war to fight,
and the next may have its own.
Whichever way an honest attempt is
made to look at the question of social
security, or of combating social insecurity,
the evidence is always to the effect that
the best way of providing for the future
is to prepare for it by saving. Social secu-
rity cannot be given to a people ; they
have to achieve whatever measure is
humanly possible by their own efforts.
And they need to be well and honestly
advised in the matter ; the problem is one
of providing something for all, not merely
security for a politician in Parliament.
Hence the contempt with which people
of perception received the proposal of
the present Australian Government to
spend on war the extra taxation now to
be levied, but to earmark a huge propor-
tion of it for “social security.” It is simply
a case of earmarking the liability for
social services ; if the money is spent on
war now, no money or money’s worth
can be passed on to the future by way
of a corresponding asset. By its trickery
in this respect Canberra threatens to bring
discredit and suspicion on the whole
question of provision for unemployment,
sickness, maternity and old-age benefits.
Social security has been made the play-
thing of politicians.
It is not only the socialistic brand of
politician peddling a phony article who
stands in the way of social progress. There
is also the narrow-viewed person, often
in the “capitalist” class, who says “the
thing can’t be done —where is the money
to come from?” A willing people, wisely
led, can do immense things, and, pro-
vided moderate adjustments in their
present way of life are not objected to,
and they don’t mind working for what
they want, money will not be an obstacle
to their saving for the future. The money
system, honestly and sensibly handled,
can be made to perform any legitimate
task. Provision for the future, within
the physical limits already indicated, is
a perfectly legitimate task. Chief enemy
to the performance of the task is human
nature. Only a percentage of human
beings are willingly thrifty. A large pro-
portion are suckers when it comes to
appointing their representative in Parlia-
ment. Those who fall for sales-talk that
they are to be “given” social security
are definitely obstructing what they want.
Such is the distribution of wealth in this
country that the “wealthy” can do little
in the way of money alone to help those
who don’t consider themselves well-off.
But many out of all classes could take
a more vigorous and practical interest in
the welfare of their fellow-citizens and
their country.
Sir William Beveridge, in his report on
“social insurance and allied services” to
the British Government, said; “Social
insurance fully developed may provide
income security; it is an attack upon
want. But want is only one of five giants
on the road of reconstruction and in some
ways the easiest to attack. The others
are disease, ignorance, squalor and idle-
ness.” Among those “giants,” ignorance
is one of the worst that stand in the
road. Most people have an almost super-
stitious outlook on money matters; it
is hard indeed to get them to think in
terms of sober commonsense. This short-
coming is traded on the world over by
financial quacks and cunning politicians,
and agitators make it their business to
scramble and inflame the people’s brains
further still.
Australia’s present Government has
pooh-poohed the Beveridge plan. Mr.
Chifley, the Commonwealth Treasurer
whose party has made a hash of financing
the war effort, has said that the fairest
means of providing social insurance is by
way of taxation only, without the assist-
ance of any direct contribution from the
person insured. Mr. Chifley speaks with
the valor of ignorance and the engaging
smoothness of the politician. Our Treas-
urer or any of his confreres have never
been known to say anything as sensible as
the following, unless the words were first
put into their mouths by the Common-
wealth Bank: —
The plan is not one for giving to every-
body something for nothing and without
trouble, or something that will free the
recipients for ever thereafter from personal
responsibilities. The plan is one to secure
income for subsistence on condition of
service and contribution and in order to
make and keep men fit for service. It
cannot be got without thought or effort.
It can be carried through only by a concen-
trated determination of the British democ-
racy to free itself once for all of the scandal
of physical want for which there is no
economic or moral justification. When that
effort has been made, the plan leaves room
and encouragement to all individuals to win
for themselves something above the national
minimum, to find and to satisfy and to
produce the means of satisfying new and
higher needs than bare physical needs.
That is another extract from the Beve-
ridge report. It has the ring of sense and
sincerity. And how it makes talk in this
country about social security sound
phony!
Speaking in support of the loan, Sup-
ply Minister Beasley said that, out of a
male population of 2,530,000 aged be-
tween 16 and 65, 1,490,000 had been
called on to serve in the fighting services
or do urgent war work; today there
were nearly twice as many men under
arms as fought in the last war. Of
712.000 factory workers, 518,000 were
producing arms or war equipment, and
of a total of 5,000,000 workers nearly
3.400.000 were fighting, producing war
supplies or working full time in indus-
try. In war factories the number of
workers has gone up from 13,500 to
518,000, and wages have risen by
£lOO million a year. Mr. Beasley con-
firmed a recent Bulletin estimate; he
said that by June 30 Australia will have
spent more than £lOOO million on war.
The total cost to Australia of the 1914-
18 war, exclusive of interest on the debt
then incurred, up to June 30, 1939, was
£572 million. During the actual period
of the war and eight months afterwards
the cost, exclusive of interest, was about
£290 million. Already in this war we
have spent over three times that much.
We still have the war to finish and post-
war reconstruction to finance. During
the first two or three years after the
1914-18 war “reconstruction” was almost
as costly annually as the war itself had
been.
* * * *
Paper for the printing of books is be-
coming scarce, and restrictions may soon
be placed on Australian book produc-
tion, which would affect such concerns
as Angus and Robertson. There is still
an amazing output of Communistic
stuff, however. Corns, and militant
unionists seem to get plenty of paper as
well as time on the air.


INVEST YOUR SAVINGS
IN THE NEW £100,000,000
LIBERTY LOAN
LEND TO DEFEND
m
.
■
mmmm
★
USE THOSE
sc/£e 9/concfsS
There’s money in Commercial Art! Big opportunities—and big
cheques await the man or woman who learns how to draw cartoons
posters —illustrations—fashions —advertisements! If you enjoy
sketching, start to equip yourself now for this fascinating, highly-
paid profession. The Art Training Institute can teach you in your
own home, provided you can spare even a few hours a week. Learn
from experts in Australia’s foremost School of Commercial Art!
Write today, enclosing 4J.d. for
postage, for profusely-illustrated
hook including Art Ability Tests!
This book features a scientific
questionnaire and special Test
Drawings. Copy these drawings
and we will give you an expert
criticism—free! Remember, no
cost or obligation if you mention
“The Bulletin.’’
7#////
m
*i§
ART TRAINING INSTITUTE
80 SWANSTOM ST., MELBOURNE
vw
\vouy
£
v<
vs
iac^ e
tUe
a*** 1
et\ l
IP
me
P***
i»e
ecp* 1
aa
l\vet
Vo* c 6
at*
M*
\ess
Navy
Navy
Vva^ 1
The FISK RADIOLA
AUSTRALIA’S FINEST BROADCAST RECEIVER
When Victory is ours, the Fisk
Radiola, will again be available
throughout Australia. . . Until
then, your local Radiola Dis-
tributor will gladly service your
present Radiola.
AMALGAMATED WIRELESS (Asia) lid.
Australia’s National Wireless Organisation
BUY £lO NATIONAL SAVINGS BONDS & WAR SAVINGS CERTIFICATES
The Loan
Speaking at Adelaide, Treasurer Chif-
ley, in reply to someone who asked why
the Government did not conscript wealth
as well as man-power, said that if the
Government took every penny of in-
comes over £lOOO a year it would only
get £9 million more a year than it is get-
ting now. “The big majority of people,”
he added, “earn less than £4OO a year,
and I want to say this, speaking as
Treasurer of a Commonwealth Labor
Government, that the contributions of
workers to war loans and war-savings cer-
tificates have been disappointing. I sin-
cerely hope that the result of the present
loan will be such that I will not have to
say this again.” Mr. Chifley stated that
there were 750,000 Australians in the ser-
vices, and a similar number engaged in
making war materials. Capital outlay
since war started on munitions factories,
ship and naval yards, aircraft factories
and plant had totalled £2OO million.
Strategic roads, railways, bridges, Army
and Air Force camps, hospitals, pipe-
lines and graving docks had been built
by the Allied Works Council. Cost in
the last 12 months had been £6O million.
The Treasurer claimed that many of the
undertakings would be of great value in
the post-war era.
All this war activity has meant big
incomes for war workers. On their
shoulders rest the success or otherwise
of the present £lOO million loan. It has
not gone well up to the present.
Certain Australian loans have the rate
of taxation on their interest limited to
that ruling in 1930-31. For a company,
this was 16d. in the £. The Taxation
Commissioner, however, ruled that the
interest was subject to war-time (com-
pany) tax, which is a sort of excess-profits
tax, by which earnings are taxed on a
scale based on the percentage of income
in relation to “capital employed.” Fol-
lowing an appeal by a taxpayer, it was
held by the Board of Review and the
Crown Law Office that the limit of 16d.
was definite, and that such income was
not subject to the war-time tax. Last
week the Commonwealth Government
introduced a bill to exclude from
the special tax both the interest
received as income and the loan itself as
“capital employed.” The latter exclu-
sion would have had the effect of raising
the rate for special tax on a co.’s other
income, and in some cases would have
increased the actual tax greatly. Senate
action had the effect of defeating the
Government move; taxation stays at
16d., while capital invested in Consols
remains “capital employed” for the pur-
pose of assessing war-time (company) tax.
* * * *
A food shortage is threatened in Aus-
tralia, and further rationing is forecast.
Much of the trouble arises from the pan-
dering to city interests of vote-struck
Labor politicians. Not only is it becom-
ing a losing proposition to produce milk,
butter and some other foods in many
circumstances, but country districts have
been cleared of eligible manhood far
more ruthlessly than in the cities. There
is no such thing as a basic wage or a
standard of living for the cow-cocky, and
returns from butter have not risen at
anything like the lift in costs since war
started. The dairy-farmer’s hours are
exceptionally long and tedious, and his
existence in the past depended greatly on
the help of a youthful family.
* * * *
Australian whisky distillers are taking
up the slack in whisky quotas caused by
the “gradual withdrawal of imported
whisky.” Thus sales of Australian spirit
are probably higher than ever in spite of
rationing. The loss of export markets is
not such a problem to Federal Distil-
leries and Distillers Corp. as it might
have been.
* * * *
A good deal of Mr. Churchill’s speech
didn’t assay, on analysis, quite what it
first seemed. After referring to “our in-
comparable insurance system,” for in-
stance, his further references to Sir Wil-
liam Beveridge appeared rather vague,
although he did speak of savings in ad-
ministration “once the whole process of
insurance has become unified, compul-
sory and national.” The Prime Minister,
however, was definite enough on one
point; he said; “I am not one of those
who are wedded to undue rigidity in the
management of the currency system, but
I say this: that over a period of 10 to
15 years there ought to be a fair and
steady continuation of values if there is
to be any continuation of faith as be-
tween man and man or between the indi-
vidual and the State.” His reference there
was to inflation, a matter which Aus-
tralia’s own Government has not at any
time been game to face honestly. Mr.
Lazzarini, in fact, recently said “the talk
about the financial system and inflation is
insidious propaganda; an attempt to
stampede the Labor people against the
Government.” It is quite obvious that
to people like Lazzarini and Calwell the
difficulties of the Commonwealth are only
of significance so far as they affect
politics.
* * * *
It is not unusual for journalists and
other writing people to regard finance as
a rather sordid, mercenary matter ; and
in Labor politics finance has been held
up repeatedly as the source of nearly
every evil. Prime Minister Curtin’s educa-
tion in this world has been mostly as a
journalist or a politician, and, while he
may never have had any strong feelings
about finance at all, his very avoidance
of financial questions as Prime Minister
has been a notable —and often disquiet-
ing-feature of his war-time administra-
tion. That is, he mostly avoids these prob-
lems. On one occasion not so long ago
he was stung into answering wearisome
go-slow talk that was based on an argu-
ment about “capitalistic profits” ; he re-
torted that profits were still being made
by industry, but that they were much
smaller than before the war. Now the
matter of a £2,000,000 aerodrome that
“was almost completed” and is now
“practically vacated” has brought forth a
statement from the P.M. He insists that
the course of the war has fortunately
shifted the combat area north of the ex-
pensive ’drome, and that, anyway, it is
being used for some purpose. But the
very public reaction to the Auditor-
General’s comments should awaken Mr.
Curtin to the importance of finance in
war or any other time. Finance has a
lot to do with living conditions and with
the distribution of war burdens. It always
retaliates when handled carelessly or in
ignorance.
* * * *
The working of the cement manufac-
turers’ own rationalisation agreement is
seen in the case of Southern Portland
and the Standard co. in N. S. Wales.
Standard has closed its plant, and as
from July, 1942, has been getting its
cement from Southern. The man-power
position has benefited, and higher out-
put at the Southern plant has helped to
offset the present rising trend in costs.
There are likely to be other such arrange-
ments made in the industry before long.
Goliath, in Tasmania, is an odd man out.
* * * • *
There has been a reduction in most
war-risk insurance rates to Australia.
From the Americas the rate has dropped
from \l\ p.c. to 10 p.c., and there has
been a proportionate cut in the charges
to and from India. To the United King-
dom rates remain unchanged.
* * * *
Carpet Manufacturers (Sydney) reports
a shrinkage in output of carpets and rugs
for civil use. To start with there has
been a shortage of raw materials, and
military requirements are now super-
seding civil needs. Looms may soon be
wholly devoted to war work. Part of a
complete worsted spinning plant is on
loan from John Vicars and Co., and is
now working two shifts. In spite of its
present production problems, the co. has
on the whole been assisted by war-time
influences. War-time transport prob-
lems overseas automatically created a
market for Australian carpets and
smoothed out some stock problems.


THE SERVICE MAN
Attrition in the North.
“Ek Dum”: Momentarily the war in
the Pacific is in an intermediate stage, with
offensive action confined almost entirely
to the Allies in the South-west Pacific
zone.
The enemy proceeds to build up bases
and to repair the damage which Allied
air forces continue to do on as large a
scale as their resources will permit.
Despite all Allied attacks, main enemy
bases in the New Guinea and the Dutch
East Indies areas are growing in strength
rather than otherwise. The wideness of
the spaces and the excellence of the cover
favor the enemy, who is able to disperse
his forces and facilities in such a way
that it takes a huge amount of bombing
to destroy them. Unfortunately, bombers
and long-distance fighters are still so
scarce and distances so long that fully
effective action is still impossible. The
bomb-loads of raiding parties which
sound large by South-west Pacific stand-
ards would scarcely do more than equip
three or four Lancasters for the fray
over Europe.
Over Bremen the other day Liberators
and Fortresses fired 300,000 rounds of
half-inch ammunition, apart from drop-
ping their load of pills. At Essen 1500
tons of bombs were dropped in one raid.
At Rabaul, more important from an
Australian point of view, since the de-
struction of all the ships in its harbor and
aerodromes round it would have a de-
cisive effect on the 1943 campaign, the
largest raid for a month at the beginning
of the week left 54 tons behind, and it
was a matter for remark that 20001 b.
bombs were employed.
In recent European raids over Ger-
man cities 4000- and 8000-pounders have
been common stock.
Using these monsters on some New
Guinea objectives would, of course, be
like using a sledgehammer to kill a mos-
quito. But used against big shipping
they would probably be economical.
Australia needs a few squadrons of
Stirlings, Lancasters, lHalifaxes and/or
Manchesters. All these are heavier-load
carriers, faster and better handling
machines than the high-level American
bombers now in service. And they are
made for low-level operation.
The raiders in the big attack on
Rabaul aerodromes commented after-
wards on the large numbers of fighters
seen —more than 250 ’planes were esti-
mated to be in the dispersal areas. A
substantial number of these were reported
as probably destroyed, and on the way
home one group of Fortresses set fire to
a 10,000-ton transport off Cape Gazelle.
A second raid later in the week lasted
two hours and was directed to the town
and waterfront. There was heavy ack-
ack fire, but no losses of ’planes were
reported. Large fires were started, and
reconnaissance pilots later saw smoke and
flame rising 3000 ft.
Lae, Salamaua and Gasmata, where
heavy bombs were dropped on the run-
ways, and other bases in the Bismarcks
had their usual “doing over,” and on
Thursday a heavy attack was made on
Wewak. Two enemy fighters were shot
out of battle and one crashed.
Wewak, on the north coast of the New
Guinea mainland, is becoming gravely
important. It can be reached from the
great Caroline base at Truk by a much
safer and clearer route than that by the
east to Rabaul. It affords a foothold
from which to infiltrate interior New
Guinea. It is not much further from
Moresby than Rabaul.
The enemy has obviously realised this.
He has well on towards 100 dispersal
bays at Wewak, apart from quickly-im-
proving naval facilities.
Also, he is developing an intermediate
port on the way to Madang at Bogea,
where an 8000-ton vessel was hit by
bombs and strafed later in the week. An-
other ship was sunk earlier in the week
off the north coast.
Milne Bay was raided by a small force
of enemy bombers which did little
damage.
On March 29, s.-w. Pacific H.Q, re-
ported that 25 out of 40 raiders were
destroyed at Oro Bay (Papua),
By Land Towards Lae
The Kumusi and Mambare areas
having been cleared, Allied forces from
the Buna area have crossed the border
into Mandated New Guinea and are
moving towards Morobe —about 15 miles
inside the border —through the heavily-
bombed Waria River district. Further
on, by constant “strafing and bombing,”
the air forces are preparing the way for
land action round Mubo. Progress will
be slow—it is tough country well infil-
trated —but in the end the enemy will
have to give it up, along with Lae and
Salamaua, now almost entirely cut off by
sea from Rabaul.
In the north-western area bombers
continued their assaults on enemy bases
in the Aru and Timor Seas. Ambon had
special attention. There, two ships were
hit and large fires were started. Seven
enemy bombers attacked Merauke and
did some damage.
The South Pacific Command on March
28 reported six raids by U.S. aircraft
on Solomons bases and abortive return
attacks on Guadalcanal.
Nauru, which was evacuated by the
Mandated Government a year ago, and
which must be giving the enemy valu-
able phosphate supplies, was bombed for
the first time by Liberators from Guadal-
canal, The wharf, runway and barracks
were hit and four fires were started.
Montgomery Strikes.
“Ek Dum”: On March 27 the battle
of the Mareth Line had been raging six
days and nights. If it can be brought
to a decision within another six days or
even 16 days, it will have been a grand
performance. It was 10 days before the
decisive point was reached at Alamein ;
and at Alamein there were none of the
features which make Rommel’s positions
in Tunisia more favorable.
The attack in Egypt was over compara-
tively level ground for the most part. The
enemy had no great nucleus of conscript
labor, no series of organised ports, de-
fences and aerodromes. His communi-
cation lines by land and sea were hun-
dreds of miles long, with no resources
between fighting line and base save those
hastily piled in his dumps. He had to
depend for water on supplies piped for
long distances. He could not provide
fighter cover for the length of his com-
munication lines.
The frontal picture of the Mareth Line
from the British side was enough to sober
the most reckless general. First, there
was several miles of red desert, broken
by wadis, with meadow land toward the
sea, some palms, some orchards, some
stone and dune. Across an open and
exposed area the attackers must make
their way to a strongly-defended line
partaking something of the characteris-
tics of the watershed country between
Bulli and Picton below Sydney, only with-
out the Australian timber —deeply-scored
gullies, rock, broken plateau and, in the
gorges and earth patches, soft glutinous
mud. And on the left flank of the ad-
vance round the end of the line is a
large series of swampy, salty lakes.
The task of the Eighth Army is only
the first part of the war for Tunisia, but
it is one of the most difficult phases. Its
primary objective is to open the bottom
of the box in which the enemy lives, to
gain a supply port or ports on the Tuni-
sian coast and aerodromes which will
give a cleaner approach to successive
enemy-held areas of the coastal strip.
General Montgomery chose for his
frontal attack a point where the coast
was near and naval help most adja-
cent, north of the main road and north-
east of Medenine, Here his no-man’s-land
was at its minimum. The enemy had not
bargained for Montgomery’s choice.
Rommel felt secure in the fact that the
approach to the main defence in depth
was covered by an imposing gorge or
wadi with steep sides and a bottom full
of muddy silt and water about the con-
sistency of a Chinese cook’s blancmange.
This imposing obstacle, known as the
Wadi Zig Zau, would have to be crossed
by causeways, scaled down and up with
hooked scaling ladders, even before the
attackers reached a forbidding assort-
ment of enemy strongposts, with very
limited channels of advance, covered, like
the crossing places of the gorge, by care-
fully-ranged enemy artillery, mortars,
machine-gun and tommy-gun posts.
Uncle Sam Moves
On the west, north of the Lake
Djerid area, the Americans’ Fifth Army
was already moving along the two roads
and the railway from Gafsa to the coast.
It fought through to El Guettar, to the
south of the railway, north of Lake
Djerid and for several miles east of it.
At El Guettar, two roads come in—
one from the coast above Gabes, the
other across the eastern part of the
swampy Djerid from Kebili, Ksar Rhi-
lana and points south beyond the Mareth
Line.
Forty miles to the north-east of El
Guettar, the Americans snapped up Mak-
nassi, 55 miles from the coast; then
paused. At the same time, they con-
tinued to exert heavy pressure and to
occupy the attention of a large force of
Rommel’s troops and artillery, threaten-
ing not only his communications with
Tunis along the coast but also his rear,
while he did battle with the Eighth Army
further south.
Late in the week the Americans began
a new drive to the north of the Mak-
nassi advance in the country lost and
won in the Kasserine battle. They met
little resistance here in their advance
along the Tebessa-Susa road, and pres-
ently found themselves in possession of
Fondouk, near the edge of the moun-
tains, only 20 miles from the holy city
and important rail junction of Kairouan,
and 40 miles from the sea near Susa.
The Mareth Plan
General Montgomery’s movements in-
volved :
(a) The direct driving of a wedge into
the enemy front line across the Zig Zau
wadi, north of the main Medenine-Gabes
road. This, even if it failed, would keep
large enemy forces locked in a fierce grip
while other operations were carried on.
(b) The sending of outflanking forces
round the southern end of the Mareth line,
one including the French General le Clerc’s
desert detachments, to drive at Kebili,
another to drive further north to El
Hamma, east of Lake Djerid, only 16 miles
from Gabes and 40 miles south-east of El
Guettar.
The objective of this move obviously
was to link with General Patton’s Fifth
U.S. Army and squeeze the neck of
Rommel’s communication lines till his
outlets and inlets were closed behind
him. The British attack near the coast
would be partly dependent for its timing
on how long these rearward drives were
in reaching their objectives.
When operations were synchronised,
the Mareth Line would be enclosed like
a Norfolk Howard in the fold of a
blanket with a strong hand to the north
squeezing the only opening of the fold.
The Maknassi drive would be ripe for
extension to Sfax, and if the enemy did
not succeed in making hell-for-leather
northward faster than he could be ex-
pected to travel with eager enemies all
along his hill flank compelling him to run
the gauntlet, there would be the devil
to pay.
The strategy of the position looks
neat and easy on a map. The execution
of the plan was something quite different.
Many advantages, natural and other-
wise, were with the enemy. He had in-
ternal ports and organised aerodromes,
shorter lines of communication and good
roads and a flat coastal terrain to operate
over, forced labor and prepared positions
very strongly fortified and gunned. He
was able to use armor from the first.
But, as history has proved again and
again, assets of this sort are not proof
against the peculiar faculty of British
battalions for marching slowly forward
in the face of withering fire against seem-
ingly unassailable objectives and win-
ning through.
The Battle Begins
The weather was fine and bright; the
moon, a desert moon of normal bril-
liance. With its help, infantry and
sappers trained to move as silently as
shadows began to clear the ground in
front of the main attack line before the
northern Mareth positions and along the
defence line’s flank, after Rommel’s
abortive exploratory thrusts had been
pushed back. They went softly into the
red desert of no-man’s-land, making little
noise. Minefields were surveyed and
mile-posted. The enemy was taken by
the ear and heaved out of his forward
observation posts. The way for a
general advance was cleared along the
main road from Medenine to within a
mile or two of the main enemy positions.
Once or twice —unexpectedly in the
north by Italians —there was fierce resist-
ance.
Generally speaking, the foe packed up
and left; or, as Berlin Radio put it,
“withdrew forward units, avoiding pro-
longed contact so as to conserve man-
power and assure that the Allies could
be resisted with the greatest force under
the most favorable conditions.”
Now all the forces of air- and gun-
power began to be unleashed. The
R.A.F., apart from Americans further
north, had pressed into service the air-
men of all the Allied nations whom it
had trained, most of them itching to get
a little of their own back. Thus, the
deep-dug defences of the Mareth region
and its environs were most thoroughly
subjected to round-the-clock pattern-
bombing. The rearward positions and
ports were marked out with smoke, and
new volcanoes seemed to have developed
in Sicily and southern Italy as far north
as the environs 30 miles from Rome
itself.
It was one of the greatest air attacks
of history, reinforced by a tremendous
rolling artillery barrage. In the air, the
enemy seemed paralysed, largely because
his aerodromes were being quarried
from under him.
The fate of the three drives under
General Montgomery’s plan was some-
what as follows. The southern push
round the end of the line to El Hamma
gradually reached its objectives, but not
without severe resistance ;• that towards
Kebili disappeared into the blue, but
turned up at its objective at the week-
end. The coastal attack on the Mareth
Line front resolved itself into a whirling
back-and-forth battle of which the results
had yet to be declared when this was
written.
On March 23, the day on which the
Americans announced the taking of
Maknassi and an unresisted advance to
a ridge three miles beyond it, the Algiers
communique read:
The Eighth Army operations are pro-
ceeding satisfactorily and according to plan.
The enemy is resisting strongly in the
Mareth positions. Heavy fighting con-
tinues. We had taken 1700 prisoners by
midday yesterday. We repulsed heavy
counter-attacks yesterday afternoon.
Behind this simple tale was a record
of desperate fighting.
Through Wadi, Mud and Wire
In the moonlight of the previous
Saturday night the Eighth Army had
smashed a gap into the Mareth defences
across the Zig Zau wadi and widened
it. At dawn on Sunday up went rockets
which told that the first objectives had
been reached. Within 48 hours of the
first main assault ip that region, a spear-
head had been pushed almost through
to the outer defences sheltering Gabes,
which is 20 miles from Mareth and 35
from Medenine.
It had been done under point-blank
flank fire, artillery and machine-gun. The
troops had crossed the wadi with ladders,
building a causeway for vehicular traffic
across its muddy bed.
They were mortared through 15,000
yards of advance. They were plugged
with machine- and tommy-gun bullets
from all angles. They were withered
with flame-throwers. They sank in the
mud. They met showers of grenades as
they approached enemy positions in the
midst of flying tracers and an infernal din
of tommy-gun fire.
They came to a double-apron wire-
fence, backed by a deep anti-tank ditch.
The wire went down like Kentish hops
and the 18ft. ditching boards, modern
editions of the fascines without which
no old-time soldier ventured an assault,
formed bridges across the ditch. Some
men avoided the sheet of fire which
menaced them above by jumping into
the ditch and forming human pyramids
to hoist their mates and themselves and
their gear out on the other side.
What with the roar of British artillery
and the answering guns and the aircraft s
contribution and the ground battle, it
was pretty hard for some time to find
a quiet spot for a nap at the northern
end of the Mareth Line on March 21
and 22, 1943.
All was not going as well as it might
have done had the wadi Zig Zau pos-
sessed a solid bottom.
While reinforcements scrambled, clawed
and waded through the wadi glue and
up the crumbling further banks to hold
what had been taken, these versatile men
carried on an immense raiding in search
of footholds over the whole countryside
Orchards, palms and trees were denuded
to the last twig. When the sappers had
passed over the country south-east ot
Mareth it had been stripped naked ot
everything that would support a whee.
or a boot in the mire.
Mr. Churchill’s Statement
Mr. Churchill, on March 24, an-
nounced in the House of Commons that
the Germans in southern Tunisia had
counter-attacked and had regained the
greater part of the bridgehead which the
Eighth Army had established. Later it
was clear that the attackers had with-
drawn, gallantly covered by a strongpost
whose defenders held the door open tor
them.
Algiers communiques on March 25, -o
and 27 mentioned no reverses and some
advances. It seemed by the week-en
that the fight was on again at Zig >
with the British well on the offensive.
Certainly Rommel had flung a very
heavy force into his counter-attacks— Dig
tanks, guns, flame-throwers. It was known
that at one time he had severed Briton
forward communication lines temporarily
by a withering artillery fire. But in*
region where fighting groups were wide y
dispersed and the battle consisted Lrge >
of milling separated groups hidden i
the smoke round well-separated dw


Public Notice.
THE offer of a reward in The Bulletin of
the 24th February, 1943, is withdrawn, the in-
formation having been obtained on 26th Febru-
ary, 1943.— CHRYSTAL & MAGUIRE, Solici-
tors, 246 Queen Street, Brisbane.
CD
am
posts, the situation was likely to be vague
till a general decision could be reached.
Rommel v. Patton
The Americans, in the meantime, had
inched forward six miles s.-e. from Mak-
nassi, taking Bou Douauo, only 28 miles
from the coast at the port of Mahares.
Unless Rommel could prevent the
junction of the Eighth Army forces ad-
vancing in the El Hamma region with
the Fifth Army Americans he would find
himself enclosed in a ring of steel, save
for the narrow coastal gap over which
the bombers screamed continuously.
Suddenly, the Eighth Army was found
taking a height miles from El Hamma,
and though the desert force —Le Clerc’s
French—in its advance toward Kebili
was slower in reaching its objec-
tives, it was occupying some of Rom-
mel’s strength and gradually snatching
heights from him.
The danger of the situation early
seemed to dawn on the Axis staff. Early
in the week the enemy heaved a mass
of tanks against the U.S. positions 10
to 15 miles east of El Guettar and south
of Maknassi, combining the attack with
a furious artillery bombardment of U.S.
positions and a concerted and equally
furious air assault on Uncle Sam’s guns.
When these assaults petered out, it was
clear that the Americans had learnt a
lot at Kasserine. The tank drive made
a deep penetration and almost reached
divisional H.Q. before it broke ; but it
did break.
Many enemy tanks were knocked out,
including some of the 52-ton Tigers. The
Americans were still in their positions,
their power to advance unimpaired.
The Eighth Army’s outflanking south-
ern spearhead miles south-west of El
Hamma, at dawn on March 27 flung it-
self into an attack which carried it into
the town within 16 miles from Gabes.
Rommel resisted fiercely. Plans were
working out in tune with those of Patton.
And in the far north, half-forgotten
while the struggle developed on the
Mareth Line, General Anderson went
into reverse and began to push forward
against Von Arnim’s pressure, from
which he had been retiring.
He recaptured the hill of Dahara,
north-west of Jebel Abiod. Algiers
Radio described the attack as an offen-
sive.
This seemed to be the turning moment.
All round the Tunisian perimeter the
initiative was specifically in Allied hands.
In the south, particularly with air ascen-
dancy assured and enemy aerodromes
torn to pieces and roads under constant
fire, the Allied commanders under
General Alexander’s operative control
were in a position to shift their weight
at will. On the southern front of the
Mareth Line there seemed to be a shift
of the Eighth Army’s effort to the region
of the main road and fresh news of the
French forces south of Lake Djerid
showed them in control of the Medinine-
Djerid road.
At the Week-end
It seemed then that the Allies had
both ascendancy by land, sea and air and
control of the initiative at almost all
points. Rommel had still a vast amount
of fight in him. He could still strike
heavy and desperate blows which might
throw back his assailants, even subject
them to severe loss and temporary
reverses, but not cripple them.
Henceforward his heavy-equipment
position would go to the bad every hour,
without the hope of his fully replacing
his losses. His communications would
become more cut up, his limited reserves
absorbed.
Hs- now was bound to face the fact
that presently there would come an in-
evitable moment like that in which he
was crippled at El Alamein, when the
Allies, making the most of their freedom
of movement, would hit him a stagger-
ing punch at some point with an irresis-
tible combination of forces and break
clean into his vitals.
Bombs Over Europe.
“Ek Dum”: The air offensive in
northern Europe has dwindled in scale,
but continues in a way which seems to give
Berlin and Hamburg the jitters. The
hum of engines is almost drowned by
the shrieks of the enemy radio, whose
announcers pretend a civilised horror of
the bombing of cities and the killing of
civilians—the same civilians to whom it
was said in January: “Every German citi-
zen, every man, woman and child with
the power and strength to work is today
a soldier of Germany as much as the
heroes of the front line.
A great deal of British air activity has
been switched to help counter the U-boat
campaign in the battle of the Atlantic,
which in the next two months will take
precedence over all other battles.
On March 22 St. Nazaire, a great Ü-
boat base, was raided by between 300
and 400 bombers ; target areas were dam-
aged and a single machine was lost. Mos-
quito bombers operated over Biscay,
clearing up enemy fighter bombers and
flying 1000-mile circuits. On one of their
first sweeps they bagged two JuBB’s in a
few minutes of fighting. On March 22
also U.S. Fortresses and Liberators
raided Wilhelmshaven. Berlin afterwards
admitted losses and casualties. Three
bombers did not return.
March 23 was railway day in France
and adjacent countries, and in north-
western Germany as far away as Bremen.
Mosquitos made a special target of the
St. Joseph locomotive works near
Nantes, coming down within 50 feet of
their objectives. Trains and engines were
blasted off the lines at various points
over several hundred square miles.
One of the worst shortages which Ger-
many must suffer is in locomotives and
railway rolling stock, wear and tear on
which must be terrific, apart from the
fact that the regauging and building of
15,000 miles of line in conquered terri-
tories and along their edges makes an
increasing call on resources.
Bomber Command spent part of a busy
week mining enemy waters.
Berlin Heavily Bombed
Berlin had its biggest raid on the night
of March 27, when for half an
hour Lancasters, Halifaxes and Stir-
lings dropped 900 tons of bombs
on both sides of the Spree—which
means that part of the centre of the
city was straddled. Berlin asserted that
“only a few ’planes penetrated the wall
of steel round the city, the rest having
dropped their bombs at random,” but
admitted “some damage” in residential
areas, “caused chiefly by incendiaries.”
No heavy bombs could be dropped in
greater Berlin on either side of the Spree
without causing great wreckage and dis-
location. Londoners know what was per-
petrated in their city by half Berlin’s issue
and what 184 tons of comparatively light
bombs along with incendiaries did to
Coventry.
According to Berlin, five bombers were
shot down. The Air Ministry admitted
the loss of nine.
At the week-end, Duisberg, Germany’s
greatest inland port, had a heavy attack
—its 57th.
For the first time a fighter has attacked
German territory —a Mosquito fitted for
strafing.
There were several small raids and
sorties over Britain —the Germans men-
tioned Hartlepool—by forces of up to
25 machines. Generally speaking, the
enemy’s loss approximated about 10 per
cent, of formations in the larger raids.
Out of 25 used in four raids on one day
four were destroyed.
The U-boat War.
“Ek Dum”: Lord Hankey, the most
distinguished member of a distinguished
family with old South Australian asso-
ciations, spoke in the Lords on March
28 with the authority of a man who was
Secretary to Lloyd George’s War Cabinet,
and who explored Empire defences for
the British Government before the out-
break of the present carnage:
I am afraid escort ships cannot affect
the U-boat menace in 1943 and that the
only way to do it is by ’planes. We have
had our ups and downs, but, broadly
speaking, at the end of each year we are
worse off than at the beginning of the year.
I fear that in the past year we did not
look far enough ahead and that the enemy
will continue one lap ahead. Shipping
losses in December, January and February
are reported to have been lower, but
during March there have been some very
uncomfortable stories. The Germans have
made some very large claims. I know
that these are exaggerated, but they are
rather confirmed by an official statement
from America.
Lord Bruntisfield, for the Government,
said that the Admiralty was giving first
priority to the U-boat war and that in-
creasing numbers of heavy, long-distance
bombers were being used by the R.N.
The position is certainly causing un-
easiness in England, especially in view
of the revelation of the destruction of
34 ships out of a Murmansk convoy of
38 ships last July.
The “official statement from America,”
made by Mr. Elmer Davis, was that,
although German claims —one of which
was that U-boats had made traffic in the
St. Lawrence impossible—were ridiculous,
“March was a bad month in the Atlantic.”
It was expected (Mr. Davis said) that in
April U-boat attacks would become fiercer
and more concentrated, in contrast to the
position in the Pacific, where Jap sub-
marines had only rarely attacked ship-
ping routes and had not seriously
attempted to disrupt Australian-American
communications. Surely an argument for
a greater diversion of force to the South
Pacific.
Said Mr. Churchill, refusing to “clarify
the enemy’s knowledge”:
I may state that the United Nations
have afloat today substantially larger fleets
than at the worst moment of the U-boat
war and that the improvement is continu-
ing.
This is not the issue. The position
depends not on gross quantity of ship-
ping available but upon quantity in re-
lation to the growing immensity of Allied
tasks which call for sea transport. If
shipping available is only more than when
only the demands of an army corps or
so in Egypt and Libya had to be met,
there would be much leeway in relation
to needs.
Until building can provide a safe mar-
gin, the battle of the seas must be a peri-
lous affair, far more important than any-
thing happening on the Eastern front.
The Germans seem unpleasantly jubi-
lant about their murderous performances.
Last week they added to other inflated
claims one that they had invented some-
thing which had “solved the problem of
the British submarine and caused con-
sternation at the Admiralty,” through “the
destruction within a few days of five
British submarines.”
The day when the Admiralty feels con-
sternation about anything, Gabriel will
reach for his trump. But this does not
affect the fact that the Allies can win
freedom to carry out their war plans
effectively only by defeating the U-boat,
and that quickly.
Lull in the U.S.S.R.
“Ek Dum”: The winter campaign can
be considered at an end in Russia, save
in one or two corners. The thaw has
struck almost the whole of the front.
Below Lake Ilmen Marshal Timoshenko’s
offensive seemed last week to be bogged
down at the defences of Staraya Russa.
In this section the Russians were nearer
the Latvian border at the same time last
year than they are now. At Velikiye Luki
the front had stood just west of the town
ever since the enemy had to give it up.
Looking west to east in the Smolensk
sector, the German main defences formed
the boundary line at which the Russian
advance stopped—about 45 miles from
Smolensk on the east and 40 to 50 miles
on the n.-e. and s.-e. There was an
official report from Moscow during
the week that a powerful wedge
had been driven into the outer Smo-
lensk perimeter, reaching the town
of Dukhovchino, about 25 miles north
of the main road and rail. This drive is
aimed at Yartsevo, which is 25 miles
from Smolensk. Yartsevo was the ad-
vance post on the main Moscow road
from which the drive to the environs of
Moscow was made in September, 1941.
Before the week-end it was reported
that strong German reinforcements had
reached Smolensk,
Appreciations of the position on the
central front are based on the critics’
assumption that Smolensk is the German
High Command’s H.Q. It may be as
wrong as the assumption that Timoshenko
and Von Hoth were in command at
Stalingrad last November, Guderian dead
and Von Bock disgraced. In the winter
of 1941-42 H.Q. was not Smolensk, as
persistently stated, but Minsk, a much
larger and less-battered city, 200 miles to
the west, on the junction of two great
strategic railway systems —Warsaw-Mos-
cow and Vilna-Gomel-Kiev. Minsk this
year is certainly the centre of great acti-
vity, and it is the site of the German main
broadcasting centre for the Moscow front.
From Smolensk to Orel, a distance of
over 200 miles, the Germans hold coun-
try from 25 to 40 miles in depth north
of the core-railway through Bryansk.
During the week they were thrusting
north-eastward against Russian positions
at Zsisdra, 40 miles n.-e. from Bryansk.
The Russians announced that an attempt
at this point to break through had failed,
costing the enemy about 7000 men in two
days. The Germans were after one of
two things. Either they were attempting
to drive to Sukinichi to interrupt the im-
portant east-west railway to Smolensk,
which could form a powerful supply line
for the southern portion of the Russian
advance on the central front, or the attack
was a diversionary move to keep the Rus-
sians from sending further troops in the
locality against Smolensk or southward
to the Kursk front.
At Orel itself fighting has died down
to a little fierce and occasional sparring.
Berlin Radio, repeating an official report,
declared on March 25 that the fight for
Orel had been “won.”
On high ground about Kursk, actually
s.-w. of that town, the Germans were still
pushing forward at intervals, and they
claimed at the week-end to have taken
Syevsk, 80 miles n.-w. of Kursk. But on
the Kharkov sector, from Byelgorod to
Isyum, the fighting was confined to attack
and counter-attack across the Donetz.
Further south, the line was quiescent.
The Germans have nowhere shown any
tendency to cross the Donetz on
a large scale into the territory of
the Don Cossacks, which is now
beginning to be liable to flooding.
It is much like the western plains of
Queensland would be after a soaking
rainfall of several weeks, with floods
thrown in at intervals.
Lieut-General Dietmar, one of Berlin’s
spokesmen, asserted on March 22 that,
with the capture of Kharkov, the Ger-
man counter-offensive had reached its
goal, the most dangerous breach in the
German lines had been mended, and,
with the melting snows turning roads and
fields into vast areas of mud, military
operations must be brought to a stand-
still and would remain at a standstill for
some weeks.
In the Kuban there has been a plucky
Russian advance in difficult country.
German troops who have been in the
line throughout the winter are, accord-
ing to various Continental reports, mov-
ing westward in exchange for fresh for-
mations. Some have gone to France,
some to the Balkans.
The position on the eastern front is
a stern one for the devoted Russians.
They obviously know it. For the first
time in the war Moscow announcements
(when not made by press representatives)
have a depressed air, and it is evident
that Russian casualties have been very
heavy. Moreover, at the end of the
winter, after long, wide advances over
blood-drenched snow and through every
kind of vicissitude, the Red Army finds
itself sitting down in the chilly mud and
rain of the first phases of the thaw, its
long communication lines stretching over
wrecked and flooded areas in which the
retiring enemy has destroyed or drawn
off most of the resources. The enemy,
on the other hand, has fortified frontal
positions, and communications almost
unimpaired except by sparse air bomb-
ing. He is operating his communications
through established and already staged
bases, over a terrain in which the climate
becomes milder every mile he moves west-
ward.
From within 400 miles of his depots
at Minsk and Kiev, the weather is
already springlike and the snow and
ice off most of the roads. But the further
the Russian communication move east-
ward to Siberia or north to Murmansk,
the colder and more difficult it becomes.
And the worst has yet to be faced with
the full sweep of the Volga and Don
thaws, fortunately not so heavy as in
normal years.
In Russia, everything depends on re-
serves of men and material. The Rus-
sians should have the advantage in men,
apart from the fact that they are fighting
for their country on their own soil, and
fighting with the tenacity Russian sol-
diers have always shown against invaders.
Fisheries Agreement Renewed'
Australians learned in print and over
the air on Saturday that the Russo-Jap
fisheries agreement had been renewed for
a year or until the end of this year. One
story was that it was signed at Kuiby-
shev by the Japanese Ambassador
there and Losovsky, the Acting Com-
missar for Foreign Affairs, and that it
affects 800 Japanese fishing bases along
the coasts of Kamchatka and the Japan
Sea. And there was a reference to “the
continued good relations existing between
Japan and the U.S.S.R., as a result of
the Matsuoka agreement of April, 1941.”


AUSTRALIAN JOCKEY CLUB
WARWICK FARM AUTUMN
MEETING
(Held at Rand wick I APRIL 1 Oth, 7943
The Liverpool Handicap of £6OO. Seven Furlongs.
The Warwick Farm Autumn Cup of £750. One Mile and a Half.
AUTUMN MEETING 1943
APRIL 17th and 24th
The Doncaster Handicap of £2OOO. One Mile.
The Sydney Cup of £5OOO and a War Bond valued at £2OO. Two Miles
6 Bligh Street Geo. T. Rowe.
Sydney. Secretary.
SPORTING NOTIONS
(Conducted by "PILOT”)
When ordering its racebooks for last
Saturday Rosehill budgeted for an attend-
ance of 25,000. That was exceeded, and
there was a tote turnover of nearly
£42,000. Congestion in the betting-ring
in the paddock was eased by putting
six bookmakers next the rails adjoin-
ing the official stand, and that move met
with general approval.
All Love, who had not raced for some
time, showed a lot of her earlier pace
in the Railway Handicap. She led to
the turn from Guild Hall, Tel Asur and
Milanja. Tel Asur was first into the
straight, but when fairly on the road
home Triad (Hughes) quickly put the re-
sult beyond doubt. She won comfort-
ably from Warbird. Milanja ran up to
his previous form, but his third did not
give him a good Doncaster chance, as he
will meet Triad only 21b. better. Ara-
hura was disappointing, at no part rais-
ing the hopes of her backers ; but lack
of racing probably told against her.
Kingsdale and Guild Hall are others also
likely to improve. Sir Neith was not
sighted.
In a soundly-run race the favorite,
Baroda, made a good bid for the Rosehill
Handicap, but was beaten a half-neck
by Glendower (Cook), whose recent hard
racing stood to him at the finish. Line-
mond led for home, but though Fearless
Fox and Omapo showed up after enter-
ing the straight the race looked sure to
go to either Baroda or Glendower from
the commencement of the last half-fur-
long. Cable Boy, in third place, somewhat
discounted the form of the first two, as
he was nearer to them at the finish than
at the top of the straight. The early
leader, Colonel Post, broke down nearly
half a mile from home.
Katanga’s (Munro) success in the Raw-
son Stakes proved that he was back to
his best. First of all shaking off Mil-
dura, who paced it with him for a few
furlongs, he outstayed Yaralla, who
joined him at the half-mile, and at the
turn looked like going on to beat him.
There was only a half-neck in it, but
though Yaralla did not jump away
smartly his chance was not materially
affected. It did not cost him much effort
to move into third place at the six fur-
longs.
Gold Salute was third, but of those
behind the first two the most attractive
effort was that of Veiled Threat, who,
though he has 71b. more than when he
won the Anniversary Handicap, is likely
to play a prominent part in the decision
of the Sydney Cup. The crowd cheer-
fully hooted Katanga because of his
failure at Randwick the previous week,
when it was palpable he had no chance
of getting through a bunched lot after
entering the straight.
Afloat (Gollogly), who was taken over
by D. Lewis only last week, added to
that trainer’s long-priced winners. In the
Three-year-old Handicap Afloat was not
prominent at the turn, where Hauteur
led from San Sebastian, Derry Down,
Abydos and Nobleman, but, finishing
brilliantly, he defeated Hauteur a half-
length. Halfway down the straight
Nobleman looked a winning possibility,
but he failed to run on, and this time no
excuse for him was possible.
San Sebastian, who had greatly pleased
Rosehill track watchers during the pre-
vious week, stopped badly in the straight,
and Hesione, after being squeezed back
at barrier-rise, did not show any of her
customary pace. Abydos, who struck a
little trouble in the straight, was fifth, but
it seems as if those backers who thought
they had discovered a potential cham-
pion will have to modify that opinion.
Santa Cruz’s fourth makes her worth
following.
In winning the Nursery Handicap
Flight (McMenamin) ran right up to her
previous form, and it can be claimed for
her that she is quite as good as the Gim-
crack Stakes winner Ajixa. The Beacon
did the pacemaking, but Flight was first
into the straight, and then hung on well
to beat Bulancer, who finished strongly.
The latter experienced interference in the
straight, but though Flight was alleged to
be responsible a protest against her was
dismissed. Estborough was a close third.
Star Gold, Joygiver and Betza headed
the remainder, and the last-named, who
is a Beau Pere colt, is promising.
Sir Galahad, from an outside position,
got to the front soon after commencing
the back stretch in the Novice Handicap,
but, though he led into the straight from
Lord Kagal, The Gambler and Bluecap,
the hitherto unlucky The Gambler
(McMenamin) was a little too good for
him over the last bit. Lord Kagal and
Blue Cap weakened in the straight, while
the favorite, Earlborough, though he
appeared to be going comfortably when
in a handy position after passing the
half-mile post, suddenly dropped out.
Owner R. Wootton has a very useful
horse in Windbrook (Darke), who, after
being inclined to hang in in the straight,
ran on well to win the Parramatta Han-
dicap from War Trophy and Pannett, the
latter tiring at the finish. St. Constant
was nearest the place-getters, followed by
the erratic Easter Time, who had every
chance. Edigram and Beaucaire, after
leading into the straight, were two of the
last three.
* * * *
Athol Belle, an Adelaide-owned mare
who cost only 150gns. as a yearling, won
her third successive race and her fourth
from her last five starts, when she de-
feated Hero and Sun Valley in the £1250
Alister Clark Stakes at Moonee Valley
on Saturday. She led practically all the
way, was never in danger of defeat, and
her time was only half a second outside
the course record for a mile. The four-
year-old daughter of Double Remove is
the most improved galloper in Melbourne
and her winning run may not have ended.
Now under the care of P. B. Quinlan,
she was trained in Adelaide by I. Reid,
who chose her as a yearling. Reid was
granted a V.R.C. permit to train several
days ago.
Tranquil Star, 7-to-4 favorite, experi-
enced a good run, but weakened to finish
fifth. Races under quality handicap con-
ditions do not always favor the top-
weights, but there appeared another ex-
cuse for Tranquil Star. She pulled up
apparently sore, as if she had ricked a
muscle during the race. Zonda, second
favorite, did not have the best of luck,
but ran on well in fourth position. Great
Britain, Victoria Derby winner, resumed
after a spell, but was above himself, and
gave no trouble. The race should im-
prove him.
Centenary, backed to favoritism at 7
to 2, made the most of an inside run
at the turn, and won the Moonee Ponds
Handicap decisively from Aldgate and
Heart’s Desire. Primavera looked dan-
gerous as she swung round the leaders
on the turn, but apparently struck her-
self, and was dismounted after passing
the judge in fifth position. She was lame
in a foreleg, but the trouble disappeared
later. Centenary, a four-year-old by
The Buzzard from Kaditcha, compen-
sated for the defeat of his younger
brother. Regency, who races in the same
interests, in the second Sherwood Han-
dicap. He was an early fancy for the
Cups last spring, but went amiss and
had to be thrown out of work.
A spectacular plunge on Wassail, whose
price shortened from 20 to 1 to fours,
misfired in the first Sherwood Handicap.
Interference, however, settled whatever
chance she may have had. She struck
trouble rounding the first turn, and lead-
ing apprentice H. McCloud was sus-
pended for three months for further
interference in which Wassail was in-
volved near the half-mile. With Breas-
iey and McCloud under suspension and
Badger in hospital, Melbourne’s list of
capable “actives” is becoming smaller.
While Wassail was never out of trouble,
Jenny Law received a good run and won
easily from Cloudless and Keplerian.
Plica, one of the biggest horses in
training—he stands over 17.1 hands high
—held off Legality to beat the latter a
head in the Woodlands Welter. Plica
was backed from fives to favoritism at
5 to 2. Stygian battled on gamely to
beat Ola Rose and Maemanto in the
Hollymount Handicap. Meadow Gold,
favorite, looked to have every chance,
but weakened to finish fourth. Stygian
had shaped indifferently in recent races,
and Saturday’s win gave bookmakers a
20-to-l result.
* * * *
There is only one more meeting before
the opening day of the A.J.C. autumn
meeting; consequently trainers will be
unable to glean much from public form
as to their horses’ Doncaster and Cup
chances. The three-year-olds Riverton and
Hall Stand are not overburdened with
exactly weight-for-age in the Doncaster.
The latter will probably do much better
than at his recent start, but Riverton,
who is making excellent progress in his
work, may be the more dependable.
Katanga’s Rosehill defeat of Yaralla,
when conceding 21b., has brought him
into notice, but in a big field the bustling
incidental to the first furlong or two will
not favor him. Besides, he is in the
Autumn Plate the same afternoon. Sir
Neith’s form at Rosehill was of little
account, but Triad came home so well
that she should again beat anything that
finished behind her in the Railway Han-
dicap. Grand Fils, who has won at a
short distance at Randwick, is very bright,
as is Merrimba, who has only 31b. more
than when second to Freckles in the
Epsom. The next fortnight’s work and
the day’s racing at Randwick may cause
revision of opinions, but at present River-
ton, Hall Stand, Merrimba, Triad and
Grand Fils are worth considering as the
first leg of a double.
So far as the Sydney Cup is concerned
Veiled Threat, with 181 b. more than he
carried last year, may be the best of
those with over 8.7, but in those lower
down he is conceding a lot of weight to
Moondarewa, Grand Fils and Enderby
among the older horses. Grand Fils has
51b. more than when he won the last
Metropolitan, and is again meeting
Veiled Threat, who was unplaced in that
race, on the same terms. Three-year-
olds in Main Topic and Baroda have to
be considered, though, as it was deemed
inadvisable to start the former for the
Rawson Stakes after accepting with him,
it might be wise on the part of backers
to see how he shapes on Saturday week
before ending doubles with him. At
present Moondarewa, Veiled Threat,
Baroda and Grand Fils are among those
specially worth noting.
* * * *
Monetarily there is a great deal in
being a successful trainer in England.
Alec Taylor, who died a little while ago,
left an estate of £595,790. He trained
over 900 winners of £809,000 in prize-
money. These included Derby winners
in Lemberg, Gay Crusader and Gains-
borough. Eight Oaks and two St. Legers
were others of his wins.
* * * •
Entries for weight-for-age races often
give an idea of what owners and trainers
think of the chances of their horses
lightly weighted for big handicaps at the
same meeting. Enderby, Warbird,
Eureka, Felt Pal, War Effort and Boor-
chief are not horses that would impress
as likely to surprise in w.f.a. races, but
they are among those engaged in either
the A.J.C. Autumn Plate or All-Aged
Stakes. St. Constant, now eight years
old, will have to return to his best form
to give him a look-in for the Autumn
Plate.
* * * *
Moorland’s owner is reported to have
turned down an offer of 7000gns. for
him. If Moorland should win the A.J.C.
Sires’ Produce Stakes, which will carry
nearly £3OOO first money, he would not
be really dear at that figure, as next
season the A.J.C. Derby and St. Leger
would give him bright prospects of add-
ing to his earnings. However, as present
conditions will practically confine Moor-
land’s efforts to Sydney, it will be neces-
sary for him to win the races mentioned,
as well as w.f.a. events, to take him
beyond the 7000gns. offered for him. So
far as stud value is concerned, even a
Derby win does not often do a great deal
for an Australian colt. Four-year-old
Laureate, winner of the 1941 A.J.C.
Derby and second in the Victoria Derby,
was sold in Melbourne recently for
600gns.
* * * *
If Lucrative should return to his Aus-
tralian form his treatment by the
W.A.T.C. (Bombay) handicapper will
give him first-class prospects of winning
a race. At Bombay in January he
had 8.9 in a mile handicap in which the
minimum was 7.7. He shared second
favoritism at 5 to 1, but was unplaced,
the winner being Golden Fawn (9.7), a
6-to-4-on favorite. With Indian racing
of importance ending last month Lucra-
tive’s chance in anything really good will
not come again until near the end of this
year, and by then he will be six.
* * * *
Veteran trainer I. Foulsham died in
Sydney last week at the age of 87. He
was first associated with racing when he
was only 11, was a trainer at 19, and the
good horses prepared by him included
Malua, Kingsburgh (two Melbourne Cup
winners), Woorak, Wild Rose, Gnaroo,
lolaire, Oriellet, Sagacity, Lady Betty,
Silvermine, Lancaster and Chatham early
in his career. Shrewd, humorous and
possessed of inside knowledge of racing
in Melbourne and Sydney was “Ike,” and
a chat with him was always interesting
and amusing. He will be greatly missed
by those who knew him best.
* * * *
Neither owners nor public have any
fault to find with Randwick being the
venue of the Victoria Park meeting on
May 15. It means more prize-money for
the former and it is the only course that
can carry the greatly increased Sydney
attendances with average comfort.
* * * *
Very few A.J.C. St. Legers have
brought to light a better three-year-old
than the winner or second in the Derby
a few months earlier. It is doubtful
whether this year will be an exception,
and it is not overstating the case to say
that the St. Leger is rarely worth the
prize-money it carries. Last week 12
were left in after the first forfeit, some
evidently consequent on oversight, and in
a handicap most would be receiving so
much weight from Main Topic and
Modulation that it is difficult to see
how they are going to beat those two
on equal terms. In his spring form Main
Topic, a proved stayer, would have an
easy task, while, though uncertainty still
attaches to Modulation over a really
long distance, he ran out a mile and a
quarter at Randwick sufficiently well to
indicate that he might go a good deal
further. Of the remainder the stable-
mates Baroda and Lady Hamilton appeal
most. Both are staying possibilities.
Afloat finished well at Rosehill, but had
a very light weight,
* * * *
Many people who live in the past have
an idea that horses, owners, bookmakers
or backers do not now compare with
those of 40 and 50 years ago. There
were a few bookmakers who did busi-
ness on a fairly large scale, but where
there was one bookmaker who would lay
the odds to £5O in one bet at a suburban
meeting in Sydney in the “good old days”
there are now probably at least a dozen
who would do so, and to a much greater
amount. Bookmakers, like racehorses,
have gone ahead.
* * * *
Mrs. Helen Hay Whitney led the wan-
ning owners in America last year, her
horses winning $400,000 (something
over £A 120,000) —a world’s record for a
woman. Her principal winner was the
three-year-old Shut Out.
Leichhardt put on a bout between
Jimmy Dundee (Sydney) and Len Fay
(Melbourne), and another to which Alan
Harry (Adelaide) and Jackie Jobson (Syd-
ney) were parties. They were not inter-
esting. Dundee apparently pulled his
punches, and the Melbourne welter man-
aged to last 12 rounds. Harry was much
too good for Jobson. The Adelaidean
is a rather likely lightweight.
Old-timers sniff when most of the
present-day boxers are mentioned, but
all agree that Patrick would have been
rated a good lightweight at any period.
Matched with a middleweight, McLaugh-
lin, at the Sydney Stadium, the methodi-
cal young man turned in a sterling per-
formance, although he took more pun-
ishment than in any other contest during
his career. He had Mac down twice, am-
got a very popular points decision. Bitter
fighting from the first bell had the great
crowd excited all through.


Women's Letters
From Melbourne
The opening of new ventures requir-
ing unpaid helpers has led to discussion
of the whole question of voluntary staff-
ing. The demand for more workers for
war jobs has, of course, reduced the
number of potential voluntaries. Many
girls doing good voluntary jobs have
taken on paid war jobs because of the
fear that Man-power otherwise may
push them into something much more
trying. Many welfare institutions say
that their expenses would be trebled
without voluntary help. Air Force
House, for instance, assesses the value
of its voluntary help at from £7O to £lOO
a week. Some scheme of deciding which
voluntary jobs can really be classed as
full-time war service would assist.
Many useful hints on child welfare and
social problems were given by visiting
social-service authorities to the confer-
ence which met at the week-end at the
Seaford Y.W.C.A. hostel. Visitors from
overseas who formerly specialised in work
in children’s courts said that the cottage
system for delinquent children (involving
being handed over to foster-parents) had
worked satisfactorily. The note sounded
most forcibly all through the conference
was that trained personnel is necessary
for all such work, and that Common-
wealth-wide institutions are better than
doles and State-run homes.
Evacuees’ Auxiliary’s annual meeting,
held at Government House at the invita-
tion of Lady Dugan, its president, ex-
hibited businesslike brevity by taking
only 45 minutes to transact all business.
Possibly her Ex., who has sat and suffered
through many a tedious, dilatory confer-
ence, decided to give Melbourne a lesson
in expedition. Whatever the contributory
causes the meeting was a success from
the start. It had roped in Minister-of-the-
Crown Mackrell and got a promise from
him to continue the Government grant.
Lady Dugan is not a figurehead presi-
dent, but a hard-working executive. She
has done great service on behalf of new-
comers, many of whom arrived in much
distress. Several societies have been co-
opted to work with the auxiliary, and
all have done so in the most harmonious
and friendly fashion.
The Women’s Committee of the Fight-
ing French Movement is feeling pleased
about having secured a position for its
shop on the ground floor of the T, and G.
Building, where a successful Opportunity
Shop has already been run. Delightful
things keep rolling in to stock the shelves,
and the French community and its
helpers are showing all the ingenuity for
which they are nationally famed. Mine.
Pohl has made a jolly collection of
“Fuzzy-wuzzy” (New Guinea native) dolls
in felt and wool, sporting the classic string
of beads around the neck. They should
prove very saleable, as they are beauti-
fully modelled. An etching of Rheims
Cathedral gives French atmosphere, and
a Daryl Lindsay ballet portrait should
be a find for someone. To dispose of
these and a Harold Herbert, which has
also been given, the shop committee is
still debating the relative merits of auc-
tioning and raffling.
Miss 16-to-18 is now right in the pic-
ture, and Miss 14-to-16 is about to come
in. The Y.W.C.A. has decided to give
Miss 16-to-18 a break by holding classes
in all the subjects Miss 18 alone was
allowed to take before making her plunge
into one or other of the services. The
14-to-16 group has made an opportunity
for itself by suddenly grabbing mother’s
war work and making a fine job of it.
Mother, looking back on her own school
days and remembering much shedding of
tears, envies daughter who enters on her
auxiliary job at canteen or party with a
detachment truly Spartan. Two lassies at
a Red Cross dance for service men were
overheard discussing partners for a “dif-
ficult case.” “We’ll just have to put him
on a roster, and all take him in turn,”
said Miss 15. “I start off, and you six
follow in whatever order you prefer,” and
off she went to the unprepossessing gent.,
who was soon in action on the dance
floor, Miss 15, his partner, easily resist-
ing any urge to look like a martyr in a
good cause.
Un-Named Players are enthusiastic
about Merva Davies’s play “Yitallie,”
which they will repeat on April 4 at the
Pilgrim Theatre. Author is the president
of the group, which aims at putting on
the work of one of its own members at
intervals between the production of plays
of better-known authors. The scheme
gives encouragement to the hopeful
young, and, as they are often acting in
their own plays, points in stagecraft as
well. Maie Hoban is, of course, always
on hand to give technical advice on both
writing and acting, and the group in-
cludes a variety of drama enthusiasts
from schoolboys to the very mature. The
group gets together on Sunday nights.
Though everything but the proverbial
kitchen sink (and even that exception is
doubtful) has been offered for sale for
the Red Cross, a complete art show de-
voted to the purpose is still a bit unusual.
Norah Gurdon deliberately pegged her
prices at an extremely reasonable level to
make her show at the Sedon Galleries
one that the general public could buy at.
The success of the idea was shown by the
fact that after two or three days nearly
every picture bore a red seal.
For her marriage on Saturday to Capt.
lan Chenoweth, Dr. Ruth Farrer, here
pictured by Spencer Shier, put aside the
role of efficient medical practitioner and
wore an heirloom veil of lace (it. had
graced the heads of many brides of the
bridegroom’s family) with her gown of
slipper satin chosen to match her pearls.
Sister Dr. Rachel Farrer was bridesmaid
and Dr. Alan Williams best man, and
there was a gathering of fellow-medical
graduates and other University friends,
both bride and ’groom being well known
for their sporting activities as members
of University teams as well as for their
connection with more serious interests of
student life. The reception was held at
the home of the bride’s parents, Mr. and
Mrs. John Farrer, of Heidelberg. Capt.
Chenoweth is the son of Mr. R. Will-
more Chenoweth, well known to Victoria
as Commissioner of Taxation, and
Mrs. Chenoweth.
Married last week to Graham Smith
of this city, Mrs. Barker, widow of Dr.
Barker, of Hull. She has concerned her-
self with problems of women in industry
in Victoria, following on considerable
experience of the same subject in Eng-
land. Sister of Frances Taylor, pioneer
editress -of the “Woman’s World,” she
is the daughter of one of the earliest
Congregational missionaries in the Pacific
field.
Another wedding was that of Gwendo-
line, daughter of the late L. B. Lloyd
and of Mrs. Lloyd, of Armadale, to John
Creber, son of the late P. S. Creber and
of Mrs. Creber, of Queen’s-road, Mel-
bourne. Mrs. Creber will relinquish her
work as a Red Cross transport driver, as
she will be living at Rockbank.
There’s a pull-together tendency among
gardening enthusiasts in this city since
the drive for more vegetables began.
Housewives of Howey Court, practical as
ever, have a plan to send a professional
gardener to give demonstrations in
suburban backyards, so that a whole
street can look on while he plants Mrs.
Smith’s cabbages.
Those who associate old age with a
cotton-wool mind and a complete insen-
sitiveness to surroundings can expect a
shock to their ideas at Jane Price’s ex-
hibition in the Athenseum Gallery. The
artist cheerfully owns to being over the
80-mark, and nearly all the pictures shown
are dated 1943 or have been finished in
the last three or four years. The painter
has not lost interest in experiment, and
lively and unusual sunset treatments
abound. Bush scenes are particularly
attractive, and the landscapes bear testi-
mony to tramps by starlight, moonlight
and sunlight over coasts and hills both
in this State and in N. S. Wales. One of
Jane Price’s special interests is painting
the blossoms of her home-grown flower-
ing gums, which make delightful flower
pieces. Some of these were sent recently
to the royal princesses as Christmas
cards, and accepted by the Queem
Many young matrons whose “godly
and sober lives” previously went unques-
tioned have been seen by friends creep-
ing out of city hostelries with suspicious
little bags which could contain a bottle
or two, and some of them have even
been perceived carrying bottles openly in
the tram. Inquiries have revealed that
these are the wives of home-coming ser-
vice men. When leave is first mooted a
good wife begins to move the earth to
provide a congenial welcome.
From Sydney
Chairman of the Red Cross Rehabili-
tation Committee George Patterson
gave some idea of the views of the
society on the expansion of the handi-
crafts in which convalescent soldiers are
now being instructed. The occasion was
the opening of a new Craft Hut. Mr.
Patterson said the committee hoped to
establish convalescent centres in each
State capable of housing 1000 men. In
them could be established handicrafts
and similar industries. In this way soldier
incomes, in post-war years, could be in-
creased. On Saturday samples of craft
work were hung about the walls. The art
of puppet-making, one of the hut’s new
ventures, gained stimulus from the pres-
entation of a puppet play. Mrs. Jack
Garry, president of the C.W.A., pre-
sented the cheque for £l3OO which made
the hut possible. It was the gift of a
city firm that desires to be anonymous.
Last week Dr. Marie Hamilton was
elected to the Council of the British
Medical Association (N.S.W. branch).
She is the first woman to attain this dis-
tinction. She is head of the pathology
department of the Rachel Forster Hospi-
tal and was formerly president of the
Medical Women’s Society of N.S.W. Dr.
Marie is a garden-lover, and the grounds
around her Strathfield home are always
glowing and fragrant. She is keenly in-
terested in music, and is present at almost
every worth-while concert the city pre-
sents. Hockey is another of her varied
enthusiasms. She has been for several
years president of the N.S.W. Women s
Hockey Association. Another office held
by Dr. Hamilton is that of woman medi-
cal representative on the Standing Com-
mittee of Convocation of Sydney Uni.
Jessica Chard in an Alice-blue dress
and a velvet hat the shade of the square-
cut sapphire in her newly-acquired en-
gagement ring, stepped into St. Stephen’s
in Macquarie-street on father’s arm one
afternoon last week and stepped out again
squired by husband Captain John Charles
Ferrier Watson. Jessica is the only
daughter of the Athol Chards, of Belle-
vue Hill; ’groom’s parents are the Charles
Watsons, and his home is at Rose Bay.
Captain Neil McDonald was best man.
Mrs. Chard’s frock was navy, her hat
of black velvet. Mrs. Watson’s black
frock had for complement a black and
royal-blue hat.
Pianist Kathleen Dempsey will add her
laurel wreath to the glory of Beethoven
tonight at the Con. His Sonata in
A Major (Op. 101) will be one of the
star events of her programme. Kathleen,
whose soldier father gave up his life in
the last war, feels she would like
to help the children of the soldiers
of this war; so her concert will
benefit the Legacy War Orphans’
Appeal. This young musician has been
chosen to play the Schumann con-
certo with the A.B.C. Symphony Orches-
tra during the 1943 concert season,
Photograph from Max Dupain studio.
Forty-two years ago Mrs. A. G. Foster
and Frank Walker, then very young en-
thusiasts on the subject of Australia’s
history, attended the first meeting of the
Royal Historical Society, and were both
present at the latest. Mrs. Foster, life
president of the Women’s Committee, has
the fine record of never having missed
one annual meeting since the beginning,
While the Mitchell Library is, as it were,
the static custodian of Australian
archives, the Historical Society might be
described as its mobile little brother. To
the Fellows of the Society (in addition
to compiling records) falls the joyous
task of arranging tours and excursions to
places which are dramatic landmarks in
the forward journey of the Common-
wealth.
The pilgrimages to Kurnell, Cook’s
landing-place, to Elizabeth Farm, out-
side Parramatta (once the home of the
Macarthurs of sheep-importing fame),
and to Vaucluse House ; the placing of
wreaths on the statue of Governor
Phillip on gala days—all help to keep
healthy the core of tradition. The shades
of Dr. Andrew Houison, its first presi-
dent, and Scott Mitchell (of library
renown), its first patron, whose names
were honored at this year’s meeting, no
doubt feel pleased at the progress of the
work they started. Dr. Andrew Houison
is still carrying on, through his nephew,
the present hon. treas. President Alfred
E. Stephen and secretary Price Conigrave
are shepherds of a thousand members.
Present attraction in the gallery is the
O. E. Friend collection of prints and
water-colors of old Sydney.
On Saturday afternoon at three o’clock
precisely Phyllis Maxwell Irving met her
Lieut. D. Berry Field in St. Augustine’s
Church, Neutral Bay, purpose being
matrimony. Phyllis, daughter of the
J. M. Irvings, of Neutral Bay, was dressed
in white lace, and her waist-length tulle
veil was, according to immemorial cus-
tom, flower-wreathed. Mary Strong was
the one bridesmaid, her bouffant frock
of white marquisette. The wedding was
rounded off by a small reception in the
annexe of the Australian Club. ’Groom’s
father is W. E. Field, general manager in
Australia of the Caltex Co.
Elizabeth Larke has returned to Syd-
ney with the rank of Red Cross Com-
mandant. She has worked for over two
years in hospitals abroad, where she was
known as a cheery Red Cross hospital
visitor and one of the first Australian
women doing this job. An important part
of her work was the organising of occu-
pational therapy for soldier patients ; and
as usual the men became adept at all
types of handicrafts. Miss Larke was on
her way to England to do war work in
1940, but on reaching Port Said she de-
cided to devote herself to Red Cross
work among the Australians.
The Killara Music Club’s season
opened in great style. Long before Eileen
Ralph and Tom Matthews plunged into
their Beethoven recital, St. Martin’s Hall
was crammed to the doors. The night
was washed with moonlight, and the
atmosphere was right for the “Spring,”
the “Appassionata” and the “Kreutzer“
sonatas. Women Killaraites wear evening
clothes on these party nights. As Mrs.
Hope Gibson, the musical director, says,
“it helps to save wear and tear on our
daytime suits and dresses.” There were
no flowers on the stage. The curtains
were of black velvet; Eileen’s frock was
black and flowing. The only spot of
color was her red-gold head, which, when
she got really active, was rather like a
poppy in the wind. President C. A.
Degenhardt, secretary Thelma Garbett
and Mrs. Hope Gibson expect to enrol
the full complement of 200 members,
which is as many as the hall will hold.
Before the opening there were 165 paid-
up memberships.
The war-loan posters by students of
the Technical Colleges of Victoria are
full of imagination, plus pictorial punch.
All last week, after the opening by Pre-
mier McKell, the exhibition drew a steady
stream of callers to the Blaxland Gal-
leries. The appeal is universal, and small
girls visiting the show will, no doubt, be
stirred to sacrifice as great as that of the
pictured small girl nursing a completely
undressed doll and proudly proclaiming
it “Austerity.” A graceful figure sym-
bolic of Malaya is in chains, a sharp
reminder of Australia’s neighbors in
distress.
Rhymes that hit the nail on the head
are printed beneath many posters.
“Which will you sink? Think before you
drink,” runs one inscription. The pic-
ture shows a ship stamped with the swas-
tika, and a foaming schooner of beer.
Beer, amber and inviting, is being re-
jected with the remark “No thanks, I’d
rather buy war stamps.”
Women, too, are reminded over and
over again of the part their savings can
play in the war effort. Darning needles
and thread implore the service girl and
business lass to “Darn Everything,” and
pictured are outlines of dresses and uni-
forms. “Please Mobilise Us” beg scissors,
cotton, needles and darning silk, and add
the postscript “Mend, don’t spend!”
Tea-bibbers are sternly rapped over
the knuckles, and reminded “the Mer-
chant Navy delivers your tea. Don’t
waste it.” Japs peer through cherry blos-
som, acting the conqueror, and otherwise
disporting themselves. And there’s a
happy, busy kangaroo wrapped in an
apron emblazoned with the Southern
Cross and the Stars and Stripes sweeping
the invader from Australia.


DANIEL
CRAWFORDS
GENUINE
OLD SCOTCH WHISKY
SPECIAL, NOTICE.
THE HYGEIA DISSOLVENATOR
Is not just a modified closet pan but a complete self-contained sanitary system
In itself. All matter is dissolved and sterilised in the machine and automatically
runs off and is absorbed in the soil. No water supply required.
APPROVED BY THE BOARD OF HEALTH AND IS FULLY GUARANTEED.
Many other chemical systems have come and gone during past years, hut the
sturdiness, efficiency and longevity of the Hygeia Dissolvenator are beyond dispute.
NO SMELLS. NO FLIES. NO GERMS.
No emptying or unpleasant jobs. Any handyman can instal it.
Price, £l7/17/6 f.o.r. SYDNEY, including 125% Sales Tax.
Plus 25/- war surcharge. Crating (if necessary) 10/9 extra.
WRITE OR TELEPHONE FOR ILLUSTRATED PAMPHLET.
HYGEIA SANITARY Co. Ply. Ltd. SUSSrSf’™ 1
Obtainable direct from us or all leading stores , pastoral firms, etc. Agents all States.
Queensland Pastoral Supplies, Ltd., Brisbane; Harris, Scarfe, Ltd., Adelaide; Victorian
Producers Co-op. Co., Ltd., Melbourne; R. P. Mclnerney and Co., Ltd., Perth.
Form a Group !
Join a Group !
Buy War Savings Certificates.
Missing Friend.
ESTATE GEORGE EDWARD SCANTLE-
BURY, otherwise STANLEY, late of Selwyn,
Queensland. —Information is required regard-
ing the whereabouts of LESLIE SCANTLE-
BURY, son of the late Harry Ernest Scantle-
bury, who died at Wellington, N.S.W., on sth
June, 1920. Anyone knowing his whereabouts
kindly communicate with the LOCAL DEPUTY
PUBLIC CURATOR, Townsville, Queensland.
Something to his advantage.
Divorce Notices.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF VICTORIA
—ln Divorce.
TO FRANK ROBERTS formerly of Lismore
in the State of Victoria Station Hand but now
of parts unknown.—TAKE NOTICE that your
wife BERYL RITA ROBERTS has instituted
proceedings (No. 325 of 1943) against you for
divorce on the ground of desertion for three
years and upwards UNLESS you enter an
appearance in the Office of the Prothonotary
of the Supreme Court Law Courts William
Street Melbourne on or before the 14th day of
April 1943 the case may proceed in your
absence and you may be ordered to pay costs.
—PATRICK H. KEARNEY, 116 Queen Street,
Melbourne, Solicitor for the Petitioner.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF VICTORIA
—ln Divorce.
TO MABEL GORRIE formerly of 189 Hotham
Street East Melbourne in the State of Vic-
toria but now of parts unknown Married
Woman. —TAKE NOTICE that your husband
RANALD GRAHAM GORRIE of 8 Westbury
Street St. Kilda in the State of Victoria
Munitions Worker has instituted proceed-
ings (No, 1138 of 1942) against you
for divorce on the grounds of desertion Un-
less within Fourteen days of the publication
of this advertisement you enter an appearance
in the Prothonotary’s Office of the Supreme
Court of Victoria Law Courts William Street
Melbourne in the State of Victoria the case may
proceed in your absence and a decree for dis-
solution of marriage may be granted anl you
may be ordered to pay costs. DATED this
17th day of March, 1943.— THOMAS J. KANE,
101 Queen Street, Melbourne, Solicitor for the
Petitioner.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES— In Divorce.
TO CYRIL GEORGE SCOTT late of Darling-
hurst Sydney.—TAKE NOTICE that ELIZA-
BETH MAY SCOTT has filed a Petition for
Divorce No. 1765 of 1939 on the ground of
desertion without just cause or excuse for three
years and upwards If you wish to defend you
may enter an appearance by the 10th of May
1943 and obtain a copy of the petition with-
out charge from J. R. THOMAS Solicitor 39
Martin Place Sydney.— (l.s.) C. K. BODY,
Registrar in Divorce.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES— In Divorce.
TO JOSEPH LAWSON late of Raglan Street
Waterloo near Sydney in the State of New
South Wales.—TAKE NOTICE that MIRIAM
MAY LAWSON has filed a Petition for Divorce
No. 564 of 1943 on the ground of desertion
without just cause or excuse for three years and
upwards If you wish to defend you may enter
an appearance at the Divorce Office Supreme
Court King Street Sydney by the Third day
of May One thousand nine hundred and forty-
three and obtain a copy of the petition without
charge from A. O. ELLISON & CO. Solicitors
12 O’Connell Street Sydney.— (l.s.) C. K.
BODY, Registrar in Divorce.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES— In Divorce.
TO JAMES KIDD late of Newcastle New South
Wales.—TAKE NOTICE that NAOMI KIDD
has filed a Petition for Divorce No. 616 of 1942
on the ground of desertion without just cause
or excuse for three years and upwards You
may enter an appearance at the Divorce Office
Supreme Court King Street Sydney by the
Seventeenth day of May 1943 and obtain a
copy of the petition without charge from A.
ALISTER JOHNSON & McDONALD Solici-
tors 17 Bolton Street Newcastle or their Agents
PARISH PATIENCE & McINTYRE Solicitors
2 O’Connell Street Sydney.— (l.s.) C. K. BODY,
Registrar in Divorce.
Beware
LUMBAGO
BACKACHE
RHEUMATISM
SCIATICA
SWOLLEN FEET
Kidneys must remove excess acids,
which are a danger signal.
DOAN’S
BACKACHE
KIDNEY PILLS
give quick relief and help you back to
health and strength. Buy a bottle today.
SOLD BY ALL CHEMISTS
AND STOREKEEPERS.
Foster-McClellan Co.,
Proprietors,
15 Hamilton St., Sydney.
STOP^fc
flap***'*
If MI* WORRIES
0
Try the new Eoussel Rupture Appliance
Enables you to do the hardest work w*.
fort and security. Definitely holds, a condUtm
absolutely necessary for improvemffl
or recovery. Recommended by Doctors '
wh»re. Satisfaction guaranteed no matte
where you live. Send for details, self measure
ment form, testimonials and 14 days fr
offer. No obligation. ro..
THE ROUSSEE APPMMfCB W-
DEPT. 27. 81 uttt ST.. SYD>«I:
SMOKE-OH!
“Do you think that cigarette smoking is
harmful?”— lnquirer in woman’s paper.
Yes, to your shoe-leather particularly.
•F *F *F *F
“Wanted to buy, 2 bridge hairs, good order.”
—Suburban rag.
A comb-out of card-players?
■F *F *F *F
“The doctor who specialises in maternity
cases is liable to be more exhausted than
others.” — “Sun.”
He’s liable to be knocked up at 2 a.m.
“The young wife of today finds that the war
has brought complications to modern house-
keeping.”—“Sun.”
First there is the shortage of tin-
openers ; then, even if there were tin-
openers, a shortage of tins to open.
“Bridal Party All in Uniform.”
—Social note.
Just before the battle, brother!
■f 4.
“One of the singers refused to open his
mouth until he was paid. The secretary tossed
a pound to him.”— “D.T.”
He promptly took the right note.
•F »F *F *F
“At lunchtime he felt like a bit of steak.”
— “Sun.”
The boss must have been grilling him.
“With a general election in the near future
political parties with new platforms are spring-
ing up like mushrooms.”
These political platforms seem to be
made up chiefly of boards.
•F *F *F *F
“Money spiders bring good luck.”
— Woman’s paper blurb.
Brimming over as I was with the joy
of life, I allowed the spider to walk up
my hand and into the telephone receiver.
But when his entrance was followed by
a noise like a herd of elephants, I made
my first mistake. I unscrewed the end of
the receiver. There he was, wandering up
and down the wires, preparatory, no
doubt, to laying a web. By taking the
receiver firmly in one hand and a pipe-
cleaner in the other, I was able to trans-
fer him to the inkwell; and thus made
my second mistake. For no sooner had
the receiver been replaced than the ’phone
rang and a solemn voice said “Harry,
you’ve been picked for roof-spotting to-
night.” So, if a money spider walks into
your telephone, don’t remove it. Get the
P.M.G. to supply a new ’phone.
Loc.
•F »I« *F *F
“Fund for old cricketers suggested.”
For those who went out of the game
stumped.
•F *F *F *F
“ ‘Treat your pig like your wife,’ says a vet.,
‘if you want to get the best out of it.’ ”
At any rate the husband might
occasionally get a grunt of satisfaction.
“Color in food attracts the eye.”
— “Women’s Weekly.”
Like a black spot in the clear soup, for
instance.
•I* 4* 4* 4*
“The milk rationing affects some people more
than others. A man I know takes six pints
regularly.”— “Sun” correspondent.
But what has how much a man drinks
got to do with the milk supply?
“The fizzy part of soda pop is carried aboard
most mobile army units as a rapid fire-extin-
guisher of small blazes.” — “World’s News.”
But do they get a penny on the bottle?
•F *F *F *F
“One man, known to his cobbers as ‘Tip-
perary,’ was a good soldier, until a martinet
officer gave him 30 days’ C.B. for a trivial
offence. After that he was a rebel.”— “D.T.”
That was the wrong, wrong way with
Tipperary.
“The Germans are designing a medal for
the Russian campaign.” — News item.
Of late they seem to have been at
work on the reverse side.
“Suggested that cabaret musicians be used
as waiters.”
So long as they don’t pause at every
bar.
4* 4* +
“Women cannot receive the Order of the
Bath.” — Mr. Forde.
However, it’s gratifying to a panto-
mime comedian to know that he can
become a Dame.
* v *F *F
“Favorite stymied by flock of sheep.”
—Sporting paper.
What were the punters doing on the
course proper?
Frustration.
“The train ban on dogs threatens to destroy
the sport ” — Greyhound club official’s lament.
This means that dogs can’t run the hare.
As was their entertaining habit.
Now, too, of course, since beer’s so rare.
Their owners cannot run the rabbit.
BRIAN BUREAU.
Disillusioned.
“The copper millionaire, who dissipated his
fortune, left an estate that contained nothing
but dust.” — “Daily Mirror.”
To all his heirs his name is mud.
His wealth had caused their hopes to bud.
But on his death they came a thud:
His assets were revealed as nil.
They found, to their complete disgust,
Corruption wrought by moth and rust.
The monster, as a Parthian thrust,
Had put the dirt in with a will.
P. S. B. C.
Discretion.
The music blares. Our dance is due.
O lovely lady, though I hold
You distantly, I beg that you
Will not imagine I am cold.
That perfect form I’d fain embrace
Like octopi in mortal strife;
But such an act were out of place :
Your husband’s watching — so’s my
wife !
NAT.
Close Quarters.
“Next Best Place to Home.”— “Woman.”
A sylvan Eden, that enchanted spot
Where, hidden from the world at large,
I dwell.
But, best of ail, only a vacant lot
Divides my house from Riley’s Grand
Hotel!
P. O. M. C.
Bottle Scarcity.
“Artificial blondes are a vanishing race in
Melbourne.” — Melbourne “Herald.”
Be good, sweet maid, and let who will
peroxide —
For though by Miss Anita Loos we’re
told
He much prefers your tresses to be
gold.
Unless he’s very well inured to shocks Vd
Quite gently break it
That you’re a blonde, not natural but
synthetic.
He’ll possibly be very sympathetic.
Some men can take it.
STANFORD.
Handicap.
‘Still, a wealthy planter, wished to marry
her; but she married the spendthrift Jim Trott.”
— Woman’s paper story.
Trott trotted her around a bit;
Hope kept alive in Still the planter;
Still, he was never in the race —
Trott won it in an easy canter.
H. M.
“Suppliance of a Minute.”
“People using severely overloaded ’phone
lines for idle chatter are a menace to the war
effort. I appeal to telephone-users to ration
their conversation to not more than three
minutes.” —The T.M.G.
“.... Fancy! And mind you, Mildred,
she’s not the saint she makes herself out
to be, either. If I was one of those who
like to make mischief I could tell a few
things about her. .. .Yes, of course I
know Joan.... You don’t say! Why.
she wore that thing at Mavis’s wedding,
and that must have been at least three
years ago. You’d think with all the
money her husband’s supposed to be
making she wouldn’t get around looking
so dowdy... .Yes, some people are
funny....
“No, Mildred, not lately; I haven’t
been feeling the best Oh, yes, I went
to him and all he said was that I wasn’t
getting enough sleep and that a pie and
a chocolate soda weren’t nourishing
enough for lunch....Oh, the old goat’s
mad. Does he think I’m going to go and
run to fat like some frumps I know?....
Yes, some of these doctors will tell you
anything.,. .Tom? Oh! I haven’t seen
him for ages! Oh, yes, you know ; he’s
all right, but... .What’s that, dear? ....
Oh, he was round —when was it? —last
Monday night, but you know what it is
when Dad and Tom get together. No, I
believe it was Tuesday night Tom was
round ; anyway they got on to Rommel
and all the rest of it. You’d think to
hear them talk they knew more about it
than that Admiral Montgomery himself.
Now I come to think it was Monday
night Tom was round. I remember I
came home with a splitting headache and
Mum....
“What’s that, dear?.,. .Oh, yes, I got
it maae up in a peasant style to wear with
that embroidered white b10u5e....! beg
your pardon, miss!.... Well, I never!
We’ve only been talking a few minutes
at the most.... Well, if you want to
know, our conversation has got some-
thing to do with the war effort! Did
you hear that, Mildred? The hide of
her! Said we’d been talking for exactly
50 minutes! Some of these people are
very officious, aren’t they? It’s a pity
they didn’t have anything better to do
than sit listening all day to what people
have to say. Some of them just try to
make out how important they are —or
think they are....
“All right, Mildred, I’ll see you soon.
Yes, and don’t forget, if that cor-
poral you met at the dance rings you up
and wants to make a date ask him if
he’s got a friend to bring along, and
you can let me know All right, dear,
it seems we’re holding up the war effort.
If some of these old girls on the switch
get any more officious I suppose well
have to send each other postcards in-
stead All right, Mildred, and don’t
forget, it was in Horderns’ I saw that
smart little red hat with the pork-pie
crown that I said would suit you right
down to the ground, especially since
you’re having that new layer-cut hair-do,
which I think suits you much better than
the bang
“Eh? No, I haven’t seen that yet
I believe Gary Cooper’s wonderful in it.
Yes, well go to a five-o’clock one
day next week... .All right, miss,
there’s no need to tell us ; we’re just fin-
ishing... .Did you hear that, Mildred?
Hasn’t she got a nerve? I’ve a good
mind to report her. All right, dear. See
you again. By-bye!”
Bo.


THE OTHER FELLOW'S MIND
The contributor placed first is paid
4j|d. per line; all others 2£d. per line.
Why Not Publicity for the Empire ?
What do we know of the British
Empire who only Russia know? This is
a question we may well ask ourselves
today, judging by the quantity of litera-
ture for sale about Russia in the book-
shops and on bookstalls.
Ask the average citizen a few ques-
tions about Canada, South Africa, India
or even M.L.—what does he or she
know? Next to nothing. Indian indus-
tries are a closed book to Mr. and Mrs.
General Public, likewise the hospitals,
schools and great irrigation schemes
built by the Government of India.
It is a great pity that more films have
not been made showing various parts of
the British Empire to the public. Ameri-
cans like Mr. Fitzpatrick, with his excel-
lent travelogues, have shown parts of the
Empire to the world, usually with very
complimentary comments. And if ours
had been an American Empire it would
have had plenty of publicity.
Most of the literature I refer to com-
pares the best in the Russian Republic
with the worst in the British and Ameri-
can democracies, which is not a fair deal.
—E. Simmons (N.S.W.).
Commas on the Stump
The Communists have held their first
public conference in Adelaide since the
ban was lifted. They did things in style
—held the meeting in the Town Hall.
The principal speaker, a miner, was to
come from Melbourne, but “some petty
official” refused him a travel priority
and was duly rebuked by the meeting.
The president of the S.A. branch men-
tioned that one of their objectives was
the prevention of unauthorised stoppages
of work. Presumably it’s quite in order
for a miner to stop work and travel
inter-State for a Commo. meeting.
The secretary, a lady, remarked that
“part of the 1943 objective” was “fuller
co-ordination between the United Nations
for a maximum war effort and a Second
Front in Europe ; mobilisation of India,
whose disunity is artificial, and where
British bureaucracy is preparing an even
more ghastly tragedy than that in
Malaya ; more aid to China.”
How typically arrogant and ignorant,
especially mobilisation of India! Aus-
tralia gratefully accepted self-government
from the Mother Country, but she has
never claimed the right to interfere in
other Dominions and dependencies, any
more than she would tolerate interfer-
ence from them.
One would like to know what the Com-
munists would say if the British Labor
party started a campaign in Australia to
have the ban again put on the Com-
munist party here!
More aid to China is what we should
all like to see, but it must be at the ex-
pense of some other nation. Whom do
the Communists propose to sacrifice to
China’s interests? Russia? Or Australia?
—F. H. Willson (S.A.),
The Australian Army Uniform
In spite of the move recently for
smarter uniforms, our troops are still
being issued with the old “fits-where-it-
touches” uniform.
The following alterations would make
a great improvement: Padded shoulders,
similar to the officers’ issue; a semi-stiff
collar and a belt, such as the R.A.A.F.
issues. It would not be very difficult to
effect those three alterations, and the
result should be to give the soldier more
self-respect.—X. B. W. (Q.).
Salvaging Rubber
The constant call for scrap rubber
reminds me of how the collection was
made in our W.A. town. The mari-
sized job—there was scarcely a house
without some rubber article that could
be donated—was left to the Boy Scouts,
boys of from seven to 13. They were
willing little fellows, but it was pitiable
to watch their pipe-stem arms struggling
with truck tyres and similar weighty
articles. And mostly they had as con-
veyance a push cart, often wobbly about
the wheels. Result, there must still be
hundreds of tons of rubber uncollected.
The job should have been done by
proper authority. Every householder
should have been asked to place his
scrap rubber on the street ready for a
Sunday collection. Then the town’s gar-
bage trucks, or even military trucks, with
volunteers, could have gone street by
street and gathered the harvest. On a
recent visit to the country I saw discarded
truck tyres lying by the roadside. —
W.C.C. (W.A.).
Canteens—Clubs, Not Bars
Let me say a word for the provision
of beer in canteens in permanent military
camps. The canteen acts not as a mere
public house for the lads in camp, but
as a meeting place which is as the good
club is to the businessman. The argu-
ments regarding prohibition when the
country was not at war were aimed at
the public house. I am doubtful if even
10 p.c. of prohibitionists considered our
“Perhaps I'm not pulling the trigger hard enough."
better clubs as dens of iniquity—in fact,
such places did not appear to come into
the scheme of the argument at all. Can-
teen bars are virtually clubs. —A. B.
(Tas.).
Why Not Ration Matches?.
Here in the country for many months
now we have had only two boxes of
matches a week —this with both a baby
and a smoker in the house. If it hadn’t
been for city friends bringing up a whole
dozen boxes from their place of plenty—
where they don’t need them for kerosene
lamps and wood stoves —we’d have had
no matches this week: the store’s out of
them. There is wrong distribution in
this item, which could and should be rec-
tified by the simple and effective method
of putting matches in next season’s ration
books. — Mrs. P. (S.A.).
Go On the Land!
When Eric Spooner said that man-
power shortage was at the root of food
shortage Sydney “Sun” claimed that “he
hit the nail squarely on the head.” He
did —with a gasbag. Why not search for
the root cause of labor shortage on the
land? Spooner and others seem to sug-
gest that a considerable labor force called
up from the farms is straining at the
leash to return. Not a bit of it. An
alarming drift from the land, particularly
during the last decade, is shown by the
statistics.
Apart from the unquestioned patriotic
impulse, the call to arms in field and fac-
tory only served to throw more widely
open the gates for thousands long eager
to escape from lines of unremunerative
toil, frustrated hopes and dismal pros-
pects. No genuine son of the soil runs
away from hard work, but when condi-
tions become intolerable the spirit of “the
men who blazed the trail” revolts, per-
haps slowly, but surely.
Although men still love the land, just
as intense is their hatred of the night-
mare of eternal dependence that so often
dogs their lives. The root trouble of labor
shortage, and consequently of food short-
age, is money shortage on the home front.
There is no lack of machinery to work
out a fair-deal formula for all parties.
Failure to do so, in continued exclusion
of the farmers, therefore, reveals there
is no will to do so, and interminable talk
only aggravates the injustice.
Surely we can wake up sufficiently to
apply the grim lessons of our national
peril.—J. McL. (N.S.W.).
Freedom After the War
During the last few years tremendous
importance has been attached to the
word “freedom.'’ Jewish persecution
and the subjugation of small European
Powers by Hitler and finally war have
aroused a keener appreciation develop-
ing into a passion for liberty among the
“free” people of the world. Men are
fighting and dying so that their families,
friends or countrymen may live the way
they want, that they may maintain their
individuality and manner of living.
All this must surely bring a realisa-
tion to those responsible for post-war re-
construction that it is their job now to
see that every man will really be free in
his own sphere, that having fought for
freedom in one sense he is not to be
absorbed in a systematic capitalism, that
the post-war unemployment problem be
catered for now, and preparation made
for all economic post-war eventualities.
Communism as we know it will prob-
ably destroy itself; Fascism will be sub-
merged and Nazism wiped out, but out of
this debris could arise a democracy
which could be one of co-operation,
wherein capitalism could be limited and
wealth evenly distributed proportionately
in each class. A co-operative basis could
exist whereby the people themselves
could control by limited shares the main
industries, stores and monetary organi-
sations, thus ensuring for each man, the
man who is now fighting for a democ-
racy, an even chance for material happi-
ness. — McMahon (Vic.).
Conserve the Cattle Herds
Australia has been warned of a beef
shortage, which, at the present rate of
slaughtering, seems inevitable. Most
cattle areas are understocked and the
further growing demand will take drastic
toll of herds. Unless the cattle popula-
tion is going to be seriously depleted
action will have to be taken by the Gov-
ernment to prevent the slaughter of cows
and heifers. If indiscriminate slaughter
of female stock is allowed to continue the
number of calves will be reduced each
year. A ban on the slaughter of heifers
at least is necessary to maintain the
nation’s herds at a level which will per-
mit them to make up the shortage.
It will take at least four years for
herds to be renewed, even if the slaughter
of female stock is totally prohibited.—
Two Strand (N.S.W.).
Compulsory Spending
After all' this talk about compulsory
saving it is time a word was said in favor
of compulsory spending. The man with
much more money than he requires
should be compelled to spend the surplus
in some way that will provide employ-
ment. There will be many needing work
after the war.
And wouldn’t it be better for the coun-
try if old-age pensions were paid with
the compulsion that the money must be
spent before the next payment is issued?
t here is no point in encouraging thrift
among these people, who will receive the
pension as long as they live. The money
is paid by the Government for the bene-
fit of the old people, and it should be
spent on them—M. D. (Q.).
A Tip to Uncle
The suggestion at Wellington that
Maoriland may grant Uncle Sam the
right to establish naval and air bases on
her territory may, of course, refer only
to Mandated Samoa and the annexed
Cook and Kermadec groups. But if it
should turn out to refer also to the main-
land I’d like to be in early with a tip to
Uncle that the loveliest site for a naval
base he could possibly wish for lies wait-
ing for him at Akaroa, just the other side
of the hill from Port Lyttelton in Banks
Peninsula.
Naval men who have been there
have waxed lyrical over the possibilities
of this 20-miles-long, splendidly sheltered
deep-water inlet. Land is cheap at Aka-
roa, and all that lies at anchor in that vast
harbor are a few fishing boats, with an
excursion steamer once or twice a year.
The long-neglected port lies handy to
the Antarctic, where both American and
British interests may prove to be pretty
important when the riches of those far
southern territories come to be exploited.
—Onawe (M.L.),
Unions for All
Why all this hoo-ha about compulsory
unionism? We made everybody a com-
pulsory party-politician when we made
voting compulsory. Has the result been
disastrous? So far as I can see we are
more than ever governed in the long run
by the old “swing of the pendulum,” the
pendulum being that body of solid, sen-
sible citizens who are tied to no one
party and who hold the balance of power.
When either side shows signs of tipping
the scales too far, they veer to the other
and redress the balance. Ask J. T. Lang!
So by all means let us try compulsory
unionism, compulsory for every man and
woman who draws a wage or a salary.
Let us get the pendulum into unionism
by making that same body of solid, sen-
sible citizens pull their weight in shaping
union policy. What good does the non-
unionist do by sitting on the sidelines and
shouting “Ugh! the dirty extremist! There
he is fomenting strikes in the hour of the
nation’s direst need!” Make him get
out on the field and tackle the extremist
with his vote as a union member.
Compulsory unionism should be linked
with compulsory voting by secret ballot
and some sort of control over sectional
unionism. Sectional unionism (unionism
by trades) is not democratic. If twenty
members of a union, small but vital
to a large industry, develop a griev-
ance and persuade their union that it is
worth a strike, they can hang that indus-
try up in idleness and deprive three or
four hundred other unionists of their job
without the latter having had a vote in
the matter. A solution may be in the es-
tablishment in every individual industry
or business of a co-ordinating all-trades
committee without whose sanction no
action would be permitted to any single
union or its members.
But when the workers have a genuine
grievance, when their conditions and
wages have failed to keep pace with the
march of social progress, when improved
machines and methods of production give
greater profits from the same labor and
the workers have been denied their just
share in easier money and more leisure,
then the union should be strong to take
action. And why not? — Harold T.
(N.S.W.).
Political Buck-passing
A typical instance of political buck-
passing has developed in connection with
the racing ban in S.A., a question which
may unseat the Playford Government.
Pro-race interests argue that racing is
allowed in the eastern States —why not
in S.A.?
Apparently the ban is nobody’s baby.
The S.A. Premier says he acted merely
as the agent of the Commonwealth Prime
Minister. But that gentleman declares
that he doesn’t desire the total abolition
of racing.
Unedifying is the controversy that has
ensued ; consensus of opinion is that the
matter should have been handled in Can-
berra.
It should not be necessary, in war-time,
to remind Parliamentarians that the first
duty of a Government is to govern.—
A. Daly (S.A.).


•N
£ -
■ ■■■
il
m
: i m
'Jm
mi
m
n
a
m
?*$ '
M
i
jj
m
Fi
:
W
m
ft
m
w
£
m
£
15s
r -'
■
o,
a.
: I
11111
#■ 1
/ -I
■
M
m
m
i
■
%
V-.-W
'v :~
f\ \
To*
t)
0 tanks, no guns, no armoured cars obey the order that issues today, for this is an order to a new
'/A army, in a new front line.
n It’s the army of the factories that responds. Men, women, youths, girls, who day in and day out
control the machines in Australia’s industrial plants that supply the essentials of wax.
“The front line runs through the factories ” says Britain’s Prime Minister for this is a war of
national industrial strength against national industrial strength. Every man, woman and machine ol
the nation is just as surely a weapon of total war as every soldier, gun and tank.
fib.
Today in the Yarra Falls Mills — largest Textile Mills in
the Southern Hemisphere — huge quantities of Australian
wools are being converted into fabric for the Empire s
defence. This company is proud to believe that its organisa-
tion, its plant and equipment, its 1,550 employees are all
playing a great part in the most momentous effort in Australia s
history. It is especially proud of the great effort displayed
by its personnel.... so apparent in the excellence of the
Yarra Falls materials.
YARRA FALLS
ABBOTSFORD, VICTORIA
L
T
a
MANUFACTURERS
OF WORSTED FABRICS AND
yarn
