

*
The Bulletin
“The Bulletin,”
Vol. 64,—N0. 3298
Wednesday, April 28, 1943
Price 6d.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.
Jeppelts
COVENTRY CATHEDRAL.
HP HE city of Coventry stands on a small hill with higher
ground to the west, at the confluence of the Sherbourne
River and Radford brook —both tributaries of the Avon.
Coventry owed its existence to the foundation there of
a Benedictine monastery by Leofric of Mercia and his wife
Lady Godiva in 1043. According to the legend it was
Lady Godiva who obtained the citizens relief from her
husband’s exactions by riding naked through the town. A
pageant depicting this incident is occasionally revived at
the fairs held in the city.
The old punishment of being “sent to Coventry” is of
uncertain origin, but there is a suggestion that it arose at
the time of the Great Rebellion, when a number of sol-
diers was captured at Birmingham and sent to Coventry
for safe keeping.
Coventry was originally walled and had no fewer than
twelve gates, but the walls were levelled by Charles 11,
and only two gates remain. The “City of Three Spires,”
as it has been named from its three prominent churches,
was the centre of the cloth industry until the seventeenth
century. It afterwards became noted for ribbons, watches
and sewing machines, and in later years for the manufac-
ture of motor cars, bicycles and aeroplanes.
The Church of St. Michael’s was built 1373-1394, but it
was not until the establishment of the present bishopric
in 1918 that it became the cathedral church. St. Michael’s
was a fine example of the Perpendicular building. Its
tower was surmounted by an octagonal lantern from which
a lovely spire rose to 300 feet, and was only surpassed in
height by those at Salisbury and Norwich. During the
savage German bombing of Coventry this beautiful church
was reduced to a mass of rubble. That it will be rebuilt
was foreshadowed by an interesting ceremony recently
held in the ruins of the cathedral, when the Archbishop
of Canterbury installed the new bishop, the Right Reverend
Nevill Gorton. The processional cross used in the cere-
mony was made from three large nails salvaged from the
ruins, and was carried before the Bishop and Chapter to
the Episcopal Throne, which consisted of an oak seat
placed on blocks of fallen masonry. The wish of the new
bishop, “It is my heart’s desire that this Cathedral Church
should rise again,” will find an echo in the hearts of all
lovers of the beautiful.


BJwl
This Book FREE to YOU!
STOTT’S CORRESPONDENCE COLLEGE.
100 Russell Street, Melbourne.
Please send, without obligation, your New Free
Booklet, explaining how to Write for Profit, at
advertised in the Sydney “bulletin. ’
My Name
My Address
S.B. 'US
AG JO
The Red Page
POETIC FICTION .
Between the Tides (Heffer), by Hugh
FA. Fausset; The Green Grass Grew All
Round (Bodley Head), by John Pudney ;
Pilgrims in a Foreign Land (Andrew
Dakers, Ltd.), by Caradoc Evans: each
of these books—the ' first a novel, the
second a group of country sketches
loosely linked by a story, the third a col-
lection of short stories—tries in one way
or another to bring the quality of poetry
into prose fiction.
Fausset employs an extremely melli-
fluous prose, describes beautiful land-
scapes beautifully, portrays a girl in love,
discusses Shelley at great length and the
mysticism of desire and non-attaqhment
at still greater length. Pudney, a poet
himself, writes far less “poetically” but
gets the atmosphere of poetry from his
rustic setting. Evans, a wild Welshman,
uses an odd and at times incomprehen-
sible dialect, offers the weirdest possible
set of characters, dabbles with witchcraft
and the supernatural and tells stories that
are fantasies based on psychological fact.
Except for the mudflats, which are
pleasantly described —
Shillingsbourne had a little harbor of
its own, a small overflow basin shut off
from the wide estuary outside by a line
of sand-dunes held together by the roots of
marram grass and connected with it by a
narrow winding channel, marked by sticks,
which at low tide stood starkly on the mud
but at flood were nearly submerged. It
was up and down this channel, when there
was enough depth of water, that the fisher-
men’s boats and an odd collection of sail-
ing dinghies owned by residents and visitors
made their way. The tide had filled it and
was overflowing the mudflats on either side
as the Miss Pringles crossed the dyke that
held it from breaking through into the
marshes beyond—
Fausset’s “poetry” is overdone. The dis-
cussions on poets and poetry are roman-
tice and sentimental —
“Why, you’re quite a poet,” said May,
patting Isabel’s hand as it lay on the gun-
wale of the boat at her side. “And 1 do
believe you’re right So the rose may
really be the sun in the garden world and
the lily the moon. But I’m getting out of
my depth.”
“Poets always get out of their depth.
That’s why I love them.” And Isabel gave
May a confiding look. Really she was a
dear. —
find that sentimentalism is reflected
throughout the book, falsifying character
and making dialogue incredible:
“I’ve got my eye on an M.G. racing
model.”
“Oh! I shouldn’t like that. Besides,
everyone would hear it a mile off. I
shouldn’t really like to dope in a car at
all. I’d rather run than that, or grow wings
and fly. Shall we learn to grow wings,
darling? That would be an adventure, and
we’d just spread them one day and be gone
like the swallows. No one could blame us
for that. They’d be so wonder-struck.”
“What nonsense you do talk,” grumbled
Henry.
Isabel is unreal because the poetry in
her is overemphasised. Henry is unreal
because his lack of poetry is overempha-
sised. Isabel’s friend the housekeeper is
likewise incredibly unpoctic; “That’s a
funny way to talk about a lot of mud
and water,” she says when Isabel tells
her the harbor looked interesting. Isabel’s
father, stern and harsh, who has tortured
himself for twenty years because he be-
lieves that he “sinned” by marrying
Isabel’s mother, is barely a plausible char-
acter, and Martin, the Yogi-man for
whom Isabel breaks her engagement—a
young man who, because his wife has left
him, lives alone by the harbor for five
years, studying non-attachment under an
Indian called Mehta—is completely in-
credible. All of which comes from trying
to portray girls as fairies. If Isabel is
to be incredibly angelic, then her lover
must also be noble beyond belief, and
everyone who thwarts them must be
earthly beyond belief.
Fausset says it is “a poetic fable.” But
it does not, as do Evans’s allegories of
Wales, succeed in establishing itself as
fantasy. It reads like an attempt at a
realistically poetic novel. It fails because
it is overpoeticised, and it also fails —
simply in interest as a triangle story—be-
cause of its obviousness. Since the angelic
Isabel can’t possibly marry the ignoble
Henry, it’s as safe a bet as ever was laid
that the mystical Martin will have her;
and it’s only the faintest glimmer of in-
terest that carries the story to the inevit-
able moment when, having been stranded
on a mudflat while escaping from Henry
and her father, Isabel is rescued by Mar-
tin “and a moment later, crying, laugh-
ing and trembling with more than cold,
was in his arms.” Though relieved by
the pleasing landscapes and some pas-
sages of village comedy, the “poetic
fable” is hardly more than the conven-
tional magazine love-story. It has neither
suspense nor surprise.
The Green Grass Grew All Round is
also without surprise. Though it cer-
tainly doesn’t fall into magazine poetics
and patterns, it sinks with hardly a ripple
into the familiar English rustic tradition.
Partly fictional and partly true, it is
primarily a series of essays on farm and
village life: an old house and its his-
tory ; the garden, the countryside, sowing
and harvest; the flower show ; the pub ;
the villagers—light, pleasant stuff, humor-
ously told, naturally poetic without any
elaborate purple passages or purple
people. There’s an excellent piece of
comedy in a description of an auction
sale when a woman who doesn’t under-
stand the mysteries of bidding competes
against,herself for a chair:
“Who will start me with a bid of five
shillings?”
“I will,” declared Alice in ringing tones,
tossing her lovely head.
“A. start now. A modest start. Five
shillings I am bid for this really useful
chair which is worth pounds. It won’t do,
ladies and gentlemen. Six shillings, may
I say? Six shillings?”
Alice panicked. “All right; six shillings,”
she said.
“Six shillings I am bid. A trifling sum,
considering the chair it is. Now I’m sell-
ing, ladies and gentlemen. Seven, may I
say?”
“Seven!” cried Alice.
Linking the sketches and giving the
book something of the quality of a novel
—a slight but adequate stream of sus-
pense—there is gradually unfolded the
history of the previous inhabitants of
Pudney’s farmhouse: Danyon, a sinister
fellow, and the slightly dotty sister whom
he bullies and suppresses. An air of
mystery and pathos surrounds the
memory of Miss Danyon; village gos-
sip slowly discloses the story of an elope-
ment —frustrated at the last moment by
the brother —with a bigamous piano-
tuner. . Between the end of that story as
Pudney tells it and the end of Between
the Tides there’s a great difference ; and
Pudney’s ending, plain though it is, is
much nearer to poetry than Fausset’s:
“Ever so quiet, she was. Proper old
maid,” Lily said.
“Went to live at Clacton, in some board-
ing-house. That piano-tuner fellow —the
one there was some trouble about —he
played his fiddle in a band there, so I
heard. A Wholesale Implement man that
travels round, he told me that. So I
suppose the old girl sat there and got some
satisfaction listening to the band.”
Being a poet, Pudney has avoided
poetics. Evans, on the other hand, flies
far higher than even Fausset dares —
“The cave was pitch dark and she lit
it with a daffodil” ; “A bell is crying in
my head, and if it does not stop my head
will crack”—and succeeds triumphantly
where Fausset fails and where Pudney is
weak. That is partly because he creates
a fantasy-world where poetic language
is acceptable and also—and more im-
portantly—because underlying his fan-
tasy is the most ruthless realism. “Cash
is never dirty,” says the beautiful girl in
the post office when she has to choose
between the disreputable but wealthy
pigger and the clean but poor official.
Evans’s stories are comedies, but they
are human comedies : tragedy lies close
beneath the surface. A preacher is
seduced ; sisters fight for a piece of land ;
a man grows rich while his village
starves: the themes are tragic or macabre,
the treatment satirical. The background
is always one of extreme poverty, lead-
ing to miserliness. When Liss died
Hamanah missed her because “his cows
yielded their milk to her freely, and
though he wore her blouse and skirt and
sacking apron and her milking hat, they
were stubborn, yielding him little and
that little hardly.”
There is a bite to nearly all the humor.
The squire used to get drunk on horse-
back ; but behind that comic sight lay
the fact that, if he had got drunk afoot,
nobody would have helped him on to his
horse;
He strolled to Machynlleth, and there he
found the squire on his filly at the door
of a tavern, making a thirst with bloaters
and quenching it with beer. While at this
business the squire never dismounted for
the reason that in drink he could not go
back, and there was no person who liked
him enough to give him a leg-up. He drank
himself blind drunk and fell forward on
the filly’s neck, and he murmured “Gee-
gee, home.”
Fausset’s Isabel would not like him,
but the squire is a genuinely poetic
character. Isabel and Shelley mightn’t
have seen the full glory of Cythraul’s
roar of rage when denied his morning
beer after a heavy night—“Don’t.stand
there like a block of salt!”—but Shak-
speare and Byron would have appreciated
it. And with all the macabre, bitter or
earthy humor, there are moments of the
lightest and most delightful nonsense;
for instance, Tim the pigger’s plan for
meeting the post-office girl when the
postmaster had forbidden him to call
except on business:
Tim visited the post office some time each
day, writing on telegram forms, setting his
watch by the clock, asking for stamp-
edge, today buying a halfpenny stamp and
tomorrow trying to exchange it for a half-
penny ; and whether he was coming in or
going out the peak of his cap was set at
Miss Fach.
It is rich, profoundly original writing ;
and, resembling the universal folk-tale,
the stories come far closer to the world
of poetry than either Fausset’s sentimen-
talities or Pudney’s pleasing but mild ex-
cursion into the rustic tradition.
Merchant Seaman.
He read Conrad and Masefield and,
in the traditional manner, ran away to
sea: a job on a tanker sailing for Aus-
tralia. Gibraltar was romantic, but the
life of a deckboy wasn’t—-“ The reader
of Conrad and Masefield was publicly
called a ‘dirty, filthy, lazy little !”
In the heat of Abadan he learned how
they kept the tanker men sober. Books
of money tickets, worth three shillings,
were issued to each man. Beer was one
and ninepence a bottle, lemonade three-
pence ; so they drank the softstuff. “There
can be no more wonderful sight than that
of a huge fireman delicately sipping a
soft, iced, pink drink.” One of the fire-
men managed to bring aboard two bottles
of arrack, and the deckboy saw his first
ship’s fight.
They came to Sydney. The boy went
“adrift” all day, swimming by himself in
a pool in the harbor and watching the
harbor traffic. It was a day of solitary
delight, but he thought he would have
to pay for his truancy when he returned
to the ship.
He raced back, but no one was aboard.
The fo’castle was as dirty as only the
fo’castle of a ship in port can be dirty.
Jack set to work, thinking of the bosun’s
boot. He scrubbed tables, chairs and
floors; made all the bunks, and tidied the
bosun’s room. Then, grimy, tired and very
near to tears, he sat down dejectedly in a
fo’castle smelling of soapy woodwork to
await his punishment.
The crowd came back at midnight. They
were all drunk. They took no notice of
him and were sick all over his nice clean
deck. The bosun was adrift for two days
and had completely forgotten him.
That’s the opening of Frank Laskier’s
Log Book (Allen and Unwin ; Angus and
Robertson) and an indication of its
authenticity. It is the story of a merchant
seaman from his first voyage until a shell
from a German raider in this war sends
him ashore as a cripple. It is, say the
publishers, “somewhat in the nature of
an autobiography.” Broadcasting his ad-
ventures over the 8.8. C., Laskier has
made a name for himself in recent
months as a propagandist for the mer-
chant seaman and for the British case
from the seaman’s point of view. Some
of his talks have been rebroadcast in
Australia.
The book has the same quality as the
talks. It is primarily propagandist in in-
tention, but the material is propaganda
only in so far as the truth is propaganda.
Laskier’s “Jack” is the traditional Mer-
chant Navy Jack ; in effect, the Unknown
Sailor. Highlights of his book are a de-
scription of a “hell-ship” and the stories
of convoys in war-time.
SUNDRY SHOWS.
“F.S.”: Ballet is moving up in Mel-
bourne. It started in obscure halls with
improvised scenery and the inadequate
accompaniment of a piano. Then it
moved into a metropolitan theatre with
no prestige and still with the old piano
Then, as the Borovansky Australian Bal-
let, with full orchestra under Gabriel
Joffe, scenery by W. Constable and a
numerous band of Australian dancers, it
appeared at His Majesty’s, under the
distinguished auspices of J.C.W. Here
it was received with enthusiasm, as it de-
served to be. “Les Sylphides” was ex-
ceptionally graceful. “Vltava,” Boro-
vansky’s attempt to set Smetana’s music
to physical motion was equally entranc-
ing. The % same choreographer’s fan-
tasy on Grieg’s Concerto in A Minor
had some lovely music to live up to, but
it did it so well that the trite theme of
Man’s struggle with Temptations and
Desire and the eventual triumph of True
Luv could be forgotten. “Facade,” to
the music of the English composer Wil-
liam Walton, provided the comic ele-
ment. Laurie Martyn danced with deli-
cacy and unflagging skill right through
the programme, and Borovansky contri-
buted the dark note of drama. There
was a verve about the whole show.
Nobody really goes to “Maid of the
Mountains” at Sydney Royal to see a
show in the ordinary way: it is an oppor-
tunity for paying tribute to an Australian
institution known as Gladys Moncrieff,
rather like saluting the flag, watching
Bradman play cricket, or inspecting the
efligy of Phar Lap. Since Miss Mon-
crieff, unlike Phar Lap, is still at the top
of her form and singing like a bird, it’s
of small consequence that the sets—
especially the one showing about twenty
miles of cliffs and sea —are magnificent
or that the humor is feeble. A dismal
quip about Mr. Dedman showed that
there had been some tinkering with the
broken-down engine of the comedy; but
that part of the show should be scrapped
entirely and replaced with a newer model
if it’s not to let down the still adequate
plot and still charming melodies.
There’s no strained or merely benevo-
lent laughter at Sydney Tiv.’s “Strip for
Action.” Jim Gerald is uproariously
funny in a skit on Lotharios of the high-
ways ; Terry Scanlon is an amusing com-
pere, and Morry Barling, Syd Beck and
Buster Fiddes throw off laughs all night
as naturally and enthusiastically as a fire
throws off sparks. Eddie Gordon, always
a delight on his hike, has courageously
varied his act and altered his make-up.
The Kelroys have an outstanding trapeze
act, and Olga Varona, who is as much
at home on a rope in midair as a fish is
in water, is graceful as before. There's
also, for a change from hillbillies, a Dad
and Dave sketch.
Noel Coward’s “The Marquise” is
brightly conceived, and more brightly
decked out —both in words and in cos-
tume. It’s about a middle-aged beauty
who, determined now on marriage, re-
turns to the lover she had deserted six-
teen years before (leaving him with a
daughter), only to find that his nearest
neighbor and dearest friend is yet an-
other of her lovers—left eighteen years
before, and with a son —and that son
and daughter are betrothed. The laugh-
ter which greeted its first showing by the
Independents at their North Sydney
theatre was as much a tribute to the gusto
with which the play has been written as
tp the humor of the situation. Doris
Litton gambolled through the piece as
the Marquise, and Clive Coppard and
Ivor Bromley-Smith laughed together and
duelled together and laughed together
again as the discarded lovers. But none
fitted the eighteenth-century costumes
nearly so well as Sidney Chambers in
the character of Father Clement.
At the talkies:
Disney’s “Bambi” (Sydney Embassy), based
on the simple yet lovely animal story by Felix
Salten, is a delight from beginning to end.
Disney retains the knack of creating animals
and birds with convincingly human character-
istics: there is Thumper, the rabbit, a fas-
cinating mixture of precocity and shyness, who
has to keep repeating at the behest of an
admonishing mother the stern remonstrance
administered by his absent father; and an
ancient owl who condescends to philosophise
on love to the wide-eyed forest denizens, him-
self getting somewhat frisky in the end. The
speaking voice of each animal and bird fits
the user perfectly. Wisely, Disney has limited
human representation to a shot of a tent in a
clearing and the sound of a gunshot that robs
the young deer of its mother. Technically, the
production is the best that Disney has done.
Spectacles of forest fire, snowscape, storm and
—most notably—mist are considerably im-
proved by a new multiplane technicolor.
Former attempts to present a misty scene
merely recorded a blur.
At other Sydney talkie houses there’s a good
crop of light comedies. “Take a Letter, Darling"
(Prince Edward) is a polished, witty affair of
big business with Rosalind Russell and Fred
Mac Murray; “You Were Never Lovelier
(State) is songandance with gorgeous Buenos
Aires settings, Jerome Kern melodies and ex-
cellent footwork by Fred Astaire and Rita
Hayworth; in “Road to Morocco” (Regent)
daffy situations with houris and sheiks give
the Crosby-Hope-Lamour partnership plenty or
scope for laughter-making, and the wisecracks
assay high. “The Door with Seven Locks
(Hoyts’ theatres) is Edgar Wallace in his best
spine-chilling manner.
Russell Drysdale, a show of whose
paintings occupies the walls of Sydney
Macquarie Galleries, has made a name
by depicting human beings in an incred-
ibly elongated and emaciated condition.
Apart from this eccentricity, which
seems to derive, in spirit if not in kind,
from Modigliani, his work has little but
a prodigious gloom to recommend it.
Judges T ong, Langker and Fizelle had
little trouble in deciding between the
claims of the three contestants for the
Travelling Art Scholarship this year.
W. G. Peisley’s performance in oils a
picture of a haystack done with great
force and conviction —made his election
sure. D. M. Barry, a youngster who has
made wonderful progress in the last year
or so, was runner-up, his best work being
a river-scene in water-color that shows
both feeling and considerable resource m
the use of the medium.


"TRUTH IN ADVERTISING"
"THE SENIOR STORE"
*4
BROADWAY TIES
f
Fancy Broadway .Ties in
striped and fancy designs.
Price, each 4/6
il Coupon
ALL WOOL HALF HOSE
Men's All Wool Half Hose in
light ribbed knit. Grey and
Blues, plain colours. Sizes 10
to Hi inches. Price, pair, 4/6
10 inches —2 Coupons
[lOiin. to Hin. —4 Coupons
5-
GOLF SHOES
Made of grained Leather or
Brown Calf. Plain or Moccasin
styles with non-slip rubber
soles. Price, pair 32/6
12 Coupons
OFFICERS FOOTWEAR
1m
mm
m
m
<
WORK BOOTS
"Tree" Brand Work Boots in
Tan and Black Calf. With stand-
ard screwed and 'sewn soles.
Price 23/6
6 Coupons
OFFICERS’ BOOTS
In Tan, Black and Brown. With
standard screwed and sewn
soles. In full and half sizes.
Price 27/6
6 Coupons
OFFICERS’ SHOES (Unillustrated)
Made from genuine imported Zebu in Tan and Black. Extra stout
genuine welted soles. Full and half sizes. Price 49/6
12 Coupons
DR. EDDIE
HEALTH SHOES
A 'Sharwood' product,
fitted with special
steel arch brace,
which prevents flat
feet and fallen arches.
Full and half sizes.
Price 37/6
12 Coupons
MEN’S SHOES
In Tan Calf, Black Box
Calf and Black Kid.
Ten styles in full and
half sizes. Genuine
welted soles. 32/6
12 Coupons
:
m m
n»wk .
A
2?
WzM W-.^
■ssM
w:-: • ■
.
• •:/- - v
0
m
w
■FAMOUS LOW PRICES
Phone: M 2401, Day and Night.
Post to Box 2712 C, G.P.0., Sydney


AIR CADET
By OLAF RUHEN.
FROM the plushy depths of a book-
lined experience, Mr. Bardwell was
answering questions for the kid.
His voice was rich and easy, as was
right for a banker.
“Unicorns? There never were any,
really, it was just a traveller’s tale.” He
leaned back and smiled, and dropped his
voice a tone to say “Like the Anthropo-
phagi, and the men whose heads grow
beneath their shoulders.”
“There might be unicorns,” said
Gerald. “They might be some place they
haven’t discovered yet.”
Mr, Bardwell’s smile became indulgent.
“All the frontiers have been crossed, son.
The Age of Discovery is over. There
may, of course, be places here and there
where white men haven’t been, but they’re
all practically useless sort of places.”
Gerald’s eyes were turned up beyond
the shadow of the palm-tree in front of
the verandah, towards the night sky.
“There could be new places,” he
said. “Else, what do they have explorers
for?”
ii I T’S strictly a searchlight exercise.
1 You’re just Joe. Get it?” said the
flight-commander, and Sergeant Maple
nodded and said “Yes, sir.”
“You fly in the searchlight for forty
minutes, then if you like you can try
evasive tactics for ten minutes. That’s
extra. But land by twenty-two-ten, and
get away from the beam a quarter of an
hour before that.”
“0.K.”
“If you get into difficulty or at the
end of the exercise you can fire a double
red star. If the beams lose you give
them three minutes, then fly into the
nearest one. They should hold you; but
there’s a bit of scattered cloud tonight
and they’re learners.
“Fly at six thousand. And watch out
for traffic. ‘A’ Flight has a lot of kites
up tonight, and you won’t see well
just when you come out of the cone.”
“I’ll watch her,” promised Maple.
“That the lot, sir?”
“That’s all, sergeant.”
UP in the night sky a long finger of
light cloud stood vertical. Maple
moved the Anson up to the end of the
runway, switched on his upward identi-
fication lights and punched an erratic
and recurrent “Y” with his forefinger on
the key. From the control tower a green
Aldis blinked back, and he slipped off
the brakes and turned down the runway.
The searchlight beam, stabbed into and
through a fleecy cloud, holding it
anchored by one filmy corner, and lifted
itself high above, a column that ended
ten thousand feet up. The Anson looped
about in slow climbing turns and great
ramps of inclined flight until the little
cloud on the beam was far below, like
a messenger on a kite-string or the little
heap of flotsam and sea-foam that crowds
a lax anchorline in a busy roadstead.
The cloud had all but drifted away
when the Anson reached her 1 height.
Maple swung her in a medium turn
and aimed for the beam. It grew in
size till it was nearly the width of a
wing, and it seemed tangible and almost
solid in the night. Then he was in it
and through it and it had not moved.
Below, the cloud disengaged itself almost
lingeringly. Maple swore and steep-
turned and crashed back into the beam.
This time it caught him and swung
with him, and from round the horizon
a dozen others blinked on and swung
and caught him in a cone. He set his
throttle and weakened his mixture, and
settled himself comfortably in his seat.
There was a beam’way down on the north-
ern horizon that lifted up from behind
his wing and shone on the Perspex. And
every crack and tiny scratch shone red
and green and purple. The beam carried
on ahead, and on the cloud-base half a
mile above a shadowy Anson cruised and
turned with him —a dozen Ansons were
in the cloud base, each in its circle of
light; a dozen ’planes travelling a dozen
ways in great sweeps across the clouds.
Two of the beams stabbed at him
through little clouds. They searched back
and forth, while the others held him
steady ; and he knew suddenly that they
could not see him. Most of this glory
of light was his alone —the rainbow circles
on the clouds, the silhouettes above him,
the play of light on his windows more
brilliant than day, more beautiful than
Borealis.
There was a cloud ahead of him, and
he went straight in, automatically turn-
ing on his pitot heat. To starboard the
cloud glowed. emerald green and ruby
red to port, and the amber of his twin
exhaust flames threw the wing sockets
into black relief below and behind him.
For a minute he stayed bathed in light,
then suddenly it was gone, as though he
had turned a switch in the cabin ; and
he could see the searchlights twisting,
searching across the sky. One after an-
other switched off, then focused on his
cloud and came on again ; but not to see
him, just to wander and lose themselves
again on the steep walls of the horizon.
He left the cloud almost directly above
the .’drome, where the runway lights
looked like dew on a spiderweb and the
red obstruction markers like a shower of
caught manuka petals. A car felt
its way along the road, its head-
lights puny, lilliputian between the
searchlight beams. He turned and
dived for the nearest beam, and the cone
was on him again.
When forty minutes were up he swung
down on the nearest beam. The Anson
nosed over, and he rode her down, his
fingers jerking against a quite imaginary
gun-button on the wheel. The big hand
of the Kollsman altimeter swung in an
accelerating arc, the airspeed-needle
trembled and went higher. Only when
his wings began to judder he straight-
ened out, the cone still following, and
threw the ’plane into a stall turn, turning
again on the recovery, and thus slipped
away from the beams. They wavered
and crisscrossed and moved in increas-
ing tempo. One caught him head-on, and
he dived on it again, and as the others
dosed in swiftly he stall-turned again,
but this time he couldn’t escape them.
So he played for a while, but when
the clock showed five to ten he reached
for the signal pistol and broke it open
and put in the signal cartridge and fired
it from the window. A red glow filled the
cabin for a moment. The beams, abashed,
flashed vertical, and one by one blinked
out. Maple slipped the Anson over to
the airfield and banked and wheeled to
land.
<<Q*EE the searchlight, Dad?” Gerald
. called.
Mr. Bardwell looked up from behind
his newspaper. As he watched the single
shaft inclined, and from the comers of
the land the others came and crossed it
in a tepee-frame of light, and at the
juncture an aeroplane, a jewel moth ot
pearl or moonstone, hung suspended.
They watched it to and fro, excited
when it was lost behind the cloud, warm
with pleasure when it was found. Th e
light from the open door fell on the boy s
eyes, and Mr. Bardwell started to say
something and stopped, unhappy sud-
denly under fear and apprehension ana
fierce pride. For the light in those eyes
was the light in the eyes of the infant
Kupe gazing reefward from the beach at
the sailing canoe; they were the eyes ot
Jamie Cook watching the masts m tne
quiet haven of Hull and the though s
were the thoughts of the young Genghis
Khan as he watched the ponies material-
ise from the dustcloud on the summer
steppe.
BAKER'S HILL
By BRIAN JAMES.
ONCLE FARLEY died suddenly in
late November, right in the middle
of the hay harvest. Uncle Farley
was the sort you never thought
would die, and that made his passing
c , , j ■ j f
more of a shock and gnm reminder of
common mortality. Mrs. GiUett and
Mary Watson Big Mary, that is laid
him out. “Lockjaw is an awful thing,
Mrs. Gillett said, and Mary replied “Yes,
indeed, tee-tanus is.”
The big house lay subdued under the
full clear moon. There was a hush over
everything, and Baker’s Hill, across the
gully and beyond the leafy yellow-box
trees, was very beautiful in its silent
majesty. A low murmur of voices
came intermittently from the parlor, and
an abnost apologetic raffle of and
cups from the kitchen. The rest of the
house was dark and quiet.
The long wide verandah held the men-
folk for miles around. They sat on
chairs and stools, or on the boards, prop-
ping themselves against the wall, or on
the edge, with their legs dangling down,
There must have been thirty there at
least, gathered as was tradition and cus-
tom. Now that it was Uncle Farley’s
so unexpected turn the gathering was
T ®
more a formality than .
They had come in dribs and drabs
over the last hour or so, many m cars,
some in sulkies, and a tew had ridden
or walked. Tom had met them at the
front steps and had shaken hands
solemnly with all of them, and was de-
ferred to as the man of the house. He
could not help, even then, reflecting on
the comic irony of such elevation. He
directed the womenfolk to the front door,
where his sister, Mrs. Baker, or Auntie
Emily took charge of them, and Jhen
he led the men to the side verandah.
For a beginning there were often long
pauses and Tom could almost hear them
thinking. Everyone had to say the
right thing, and often it isn t easy, espe-
dally in a little world when its most
successful man dies and his very success
is an affront. So it went: “A big loss
to the district, Tom—a very big loss.
That was neat enough. It seemed a little
strained when it went on to “Yes, as
big a loss as the T 9 drought,” but Tom
nodded
In the gaps between the eulogies there
came the stamp of a horse tied to the
front fence, the sound of Bluey rattling
his chain or a heavy step on the gravel
path. Everyone seemed to listen to these
sounds as if they had special significance,
and stared at Baker’s Hill, where the
higher treetops on the western side were
beginning to silver in the moonlight,
Then they wondered, perhaps, what the
women were talking about inside ; or how
Auntie Farley was “taking it” ; or how
she felt about it “after all these years” ;
or what a fine woman she had been.
Billy Rosen was the last to arrive,
rattling along in that quaint old gig of
his, and Jim Bower was with him. Billy
was half drunk but the decent fellow
he always was. Jim was half sober and
told Tom his father was a statesman—
that is, if there ever was a statesman.
“What that man couldn’t have
been” and old Jim stopped to con-
template the heights. When he ceased
contemplating he had forgotten the begin-
ning of the sentence. But Tom felt
warmly grateful for all that easy glib-
ness in old Jim; just as he felt that of
his neighbors Billy Rosen had the best
and kindest heart of all.
, „ , , ~
\A/ H FN these gifts had been laid on
the altai of chanty more vane
conversation began. Topics ranged from
to f he from divin .
jn ods t ’ the days .. when them Gover-
nors were a b ou t” ; from greasy heel to
the genesis of kangaroos ; brumbies “me
old man used to ta ik about” ; the Rus-
sians and Rommel; boards and Govern-
ment control, taxes. Man-power and call-
ups. Sometimes this was general dis-
cussion, sometimes in sections, with
several topics going at once, and some-
times in whispers and nods,
Tom listened with half his mind while
the other hair worked out, m spite o
"/ r
had tQ sed j n and Uncle Farley buy-
j ng f or a song> John Henry still jealous
tbat Uncle Farley could get a bob or
t wo more for his lucerne hay. Hec
Grahame sore yet that Uncle Farley had
beaten him in the council elections. Some
of them unable to forget that Uncle Far-
ley had bought their passbooks when
“that Lang smashed the bank’’—‘“eleven
bob in readycash, wasn’t t it. Eleven
hob. God, think of it. Eleven bob
All of them more or less hurt that Uncle
Farley should have been Shire President
and carr j ed things with such a high hand,
Tom didn , t feel grieved that thoughts
mus j. run tfi a t way. He knew also how
e j r minds pondered over what his
f a ther was worth, how the will would go
—whether Tom would get the place,
Eom bad no idea himself how he stood
j n tbe matter, and hardly cared very
much just now.
Auntie Emily came out and called Tom
j n she was his father’s sister, just
arr j ved f rom Sydney. She was unmar-
r j ed and had always been about the same
age . very good m a cold, dispassionate
way> b ut so s t r ong in her “duty to God.”
gb e as hed Tom to carry out the wine to
jhe men.
Y he wine was a feature on these occa-
sjonSj sacramental almost. Billy Rosen
ba d thoughtfully brought over a quan-
tdy G f dry sherry and Auntie Emily
poured j t j nto some absurdly small glasses
wd b j ong s tems, and then very small por-
tjons j nto big glasses with no stems,
Several of the men gave Tom a hand
wd h the trays, and at last all had their
glasses and drank the silent memory,
when Tom carried the empty glasses back
i n t o the kitchen Auntie Emily waylaid
him to tell him to bear up bravely and
how wonderfully good God really was
j n matters of this kind. Two big tears
balanced on Auntie Emily’s lids, and
somehow made her sharp red nose redder
than ever.
There was a stir on the verandahs
w hen he returned—farewells, low-pitched
conversation in small groups, men and
their womenfolk marshalling for depar-
ture. Then the starting of cars, the rattle
of traps and “See you tomorrow!”—the
funeral, of course. Then this phase of
the obsequies was done with; gone for
ever with all the things that move and
change,
"F HERE were sounds still of talk inside
1 where his sisters and Auntie Emily
were. Tom would have liked to go in
and sit with his mother, just sit and be
silent, but he couldn’t, for that meant
risking Auntie Emily, so he sat alone on
the verandah and gazed at Baker’s Hill.
Queer thought that, but in all the pro-
cess of change Baker’s Hill and the
moonlight never changed—or, at least,
they always came back to this at last.
Father gone! It was hard to realise it.
There was no bitterness in the thought,
no regret, no affection. People said Tom
was a model son, as the best thing you
could say of him. Someone had said to-
night what a good father Uncle Farley
had been. Tom wondered what a good
father should be. And then came a clear
vision of Baker’s Hill and the moonlight
long ago. .
Just such a night as this, it was, when
his father had sat with him on this ver-
andah and pointed out the imagined
forms on the skyline of the hill —a black-
fellow’s head, a kangaroo, a bark hut
with an outsize in chimneys. Some of
these things were on the skyline still, dis-
torted a bit by the years, but recognisable,
especially the blackfellow’s head, which
was, in reality, that bunchy old slaty gum
near the top. All that was such a long
time ago—Tom couldn’t remember
exactly how old he was, but he could
clearly recall that he hadn’t reached the
high dignity of a fly to his pants. Strange
to think of these things now, and of that
evening as the one and only real memory
of affection and understanding. He liked
the memory even though it hurt. Per-
haps he was to blame himself for many
things...
His years of toil passed in review. He
had given honest labor and had counted
little its return. He didn’t regret that, for
he liked work, even when the direction of
it was hardly ever his own. Perhaps his
father had always taken him for granted,
but then he who gives freely is ever
reckoned something of a fool. It wasn’t
so with his three brothers. What a day
that was when Joe told Father to go to
hell. Then Joe walked off the place
with no blessing—and very little else.
Joe had wanted him to go, too, but all
in all he was glad he hadn’t. There had
been Mother to consider in the matter.
But one couldn’t blame Joe, Joe being
what he was. He often wondered what
had become of Joe, and he never failed
to look down the casualty lists for his
name.
The other two brothers would be along
tomorrow, of course, and then he would
fade into the background again. Pretty
successful they were, something like
Father in that. Most of the words called
sympathy would go to them. No use
being jealous of that, though. That was
just how life had carved things out.
He could see the funeral in prospect.
Its great length would be the measure
of his father’s importance —and of that
which the papers call “universal respect.”
Auntie Emily would tally the vehicles
and count in too the horsemen who fol-
lowed in pairs. She would see in that
long procession further evidence of her
brother’s goodness.
But it was time to be done with such
profitless thoughts. There was morning
in the sky. The moon was paling, and
Baker’s Hill, all shadow now, was bigger
than ever but friendly still. Kooka-
burras were commencing the day. Time
to be making a start. The rest of the
hay in the forty-acre must be got in. But
no carting today, Tom remembered. It
would have to wait till tomorrow. A
pity that, for the carting was overdue.
His head nodded, and he dozed uncom-
fortably. Auntie Emily came at last to
call him to breakfast. It was broad
morning, and Baker’s Hill was just a
hill that slept in the warm sunlight.


CALL TO PRAYER.
“Hitler did not speak on his 54th birthday, nor were his whereabouts disclosed. Goering and Goebbels performed as usual.”
“Ach, how our absent Fuehrer lofs der people! Pray for him, pig-dogs —or else!”


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper
“Australia for the White Man”
Directors:
H. K. Prior J. E. Webb
P. H. Prior David Adams
HEAD OFFICE: 252 George Street, Sydney:
Box 2521 BB; 'Phone 87971.
Victoria: Newspaper House, 247-249 Collins
Street, Melbourne.
Queensland: 239 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
Westralia: 33 Barrack Street, Perth.
New Zealand : Nathan’s Buildings ( opp.
G.P.0.), Wellington.
London: J Hare Place, 47 Fleet Street,
London. E.C.4.
MILLIONS FOR UNIONS.
Although Thornton’s Red racket, other-
wise known as the Federated Iron-
workers’ Association, has brought off an
amalgamation with the Munition
Workers’ Union by methods which could
do with inquiry, there are signs of per-
turbation in high Red-racket quarters.
They are traceable in the “Ironworker,”
though large masses of that publication
are given over to denunciations of
B.H.P. and wage-payers in general, to
turgid glorification of Thornton and his
pals and to servile repetition of Soviet
propaganda, especially regarding the
Polish Government, “the traitor”
Michailovich and a Second Front in
Europe, “the prolonged delay” in open-
ing which has “given the Soviet Govern-
ment grave cause for misgiving.”
It appears from the “Ironworker” that
the amalgamation was effected by “meet-
ings” (Red rackets have no use for secret
ballots unless they suddenly become ex-
pedient), but not without difficulty. A
strange opposition to this stage in “our
fight for a new society” was manifested
in Queensland and Tasmania, and in Mel-
bourne there was “an unprecedented bar-
rage of lying propaganda,” And there
had been a rush of other annoyances.
A “soldier-unionist” had written in to
say “there is tremendous hostility between
large sections of the army and the people
in industry.” The writer of “a disruptive
letter,” the secretary of a shop committee
at that, had had to be “repudiated by
trade-union spokesmen.” “A few” other
“disruptive elements” had “endeavored to
undermine the prestige of the officials of
Sydney A branch,” “Developments in
the shipyard dispute in Queensland” had
been unsatisfactory in that “the unions
wanted two men shifted because they
were a positive menace industrially, and,
even though Mr. Ward gave some direc-
tion, his Man-power chiefs in Queens-
land did not want to carry it out.”
And “the problem of the unfinancial
unionist” was growing; “the Balmain
branch of the Ironworkers’ ” had “about
1500 unfinancial members on the books.”
Above all, Mullens, the Labor member
for Footscray, had “circulated lies” about
the non-production of “a balance sheet
for the Ironworkers’ Union,” and the
lies had been “taken up gleefully by The
Bulletin and the ‘Century.’ ”
These “balance-sheet lies” were “ex-
posed” in the April number of the “Iron-
worker.” By the production of a balance
sheet? By the publication of an interim
statement showing the number of union
members, their contributions (dues and
levies), the amount of revenue from all
sources, the total expenditure and credit
balance, if any, together with particulars
of the staff employed and the sums
charged up for salaries, expenses and
propaganda? No ; by printing copies of
“auditors’ certificates,” which were alleged
to “show how false have been these
balance-sheet charges and to what depths
the enemies of progressive unionism are
prepared to descend.” They “show” no-
thing of the kind.
In trying to put down Mullens, Thorn-
ton averred that “the balance sheets for
the union are produced by independent
chartered accountants for every union
branch and for the Ironworkers’ Federal
Council.” The auditors’ certificates he
cites evidently refer only to transactions
of the Federal Council; and they “show”
only that the auditors did the jobs for
which they were engaged by Thornton
and his associates.
In the first certificate, covering the
year to March 21, 1937, there are very
unusual expressions, and the accountant’s
home town is not given, though he may
not be to blame for that.
I certify that the above statement of
affairs, which has been compiled from the
cash book and records, in conjunction with
such other data as was available, of the
Federal Council of the Federated Iron-
workers’ Association of Australia, is cor-
rect and in accordance therewith, and should
be read with my report of even date.
Th© certificates for the two succeeding
years were issued by a Richmond (Vic.)
accountant, the very uninformative for-
mula being the same:
I hereby certify that the foregoing state-
ment of receipts and payments and balance
sheet are correctly drawn and exhibits [«c]
the true position according to the books
and vouchers submitted to me for audit.
The business was afterwards trans-
ferred to a Sydney firm of chartered ac-
countants, who for three years have em-
ployed the same wording:
We have examined the books and accounts
of The Federated Ironworkers’ Association
of Australia, Federal Council, for the year
ended March 31, 1940 [1941 and 1942]
and have prepared the above balance sheet
and attached revenue account and cash
statement. Under even date we have sub-
mitted a report to the committee of man-
agement. .
Were the closing sentences (twice re-
peated) appended to a company balance
sheet, shareholders and the “Wild Cat”
column would want to know all about
that report.
There is nothing in any of the certi-
ficates to confute the persistent Mullens.
Nothing to satisfy his thirst for informa-
tion as to how much the Red racket
raked in during a given year from how
many members, voluntary or enforced,
and what it spent in the same year on
secretaries, organisers, offices, office and
travelling expenses, printing bills, hire of
halls and radio time —much less to sat-
isfy curiosity as to the number of
officials of military age who are “pro-
tected,” and whether warrantably or not.
Moreover, the quoted certificates, while
no doubt conforming to the requirements
of trade-union law, such as they are, are
very different from the auditors’ reports
attached to the balance sheets of regis-
tered companies. Two came to this office
while Thornton’s bluster was under con-
sideration.
Caldwell’s Wines. —We report that we
have examined the vouchers and books of
account of Caldwell’s Wines for the year
ended 31st December, 1942. We have
obtained all the information and explana-
tions that we have required, and hereby
certify that the above balance sheet is, in
our opinion, properly drawn up so as to
exhibit a true and correct view of the state
of the company’s affairs as at that date
according to the best of our information,
the explanations given to us, the certificates
of responsible officers and as shown by the
said books of the company. We further
certify that, in our opinion, the register of
members and other records which the com-
pany is required to keep under the Com-
panies Act 1936 or by its articles have been
properly kept.
Caledonian Collieries. —I report to the
shareholders of Caledonian Collieries that
I have examined the above balance sheet
with the books of the company and, having
obtained all the information and explana-
tions I have required, I am of the opinion
that such balance sheet is properly drawn
up so as to exhibit a true and correct view
of the state of the company’s affairs,
according to the best of my information
and the explanations given to me and as
shewn by the books of the company. I
also report that in my opinion the register
of members and other records which the
company is required to keep under the
N.S.W. Companies Act 1936 or by its
articles have been kept in a proper manner.
At the end of 1940 there were “381
distinct union organisations and groups of
organisations,” with 2183 State branches
and 955,862 members, and, though the
Commonwealth Statistician does not
say so, with the great subsequent
movement into war industries of
people previously “unorganised,” and
various methods of compulsion in
force under Mr. Ward’s patronage,
there must be nearly 1,250,000 members
now. And with union bosses charging
what they please for tickets, there being
no legal limit, union revenues run into
millions.
Indeed, millions of union money have
been squandered on strikes, newspapers
and Red and other propaganda. The
A.W.U alone lost a large slice of a million
in trying to run daily newspapers, which
have given up the ghost In Hobart, Adel-
aide, Sydney (2) and Brisbane, though
it was not all A.W.U. money that went
west. And the Miners’ Federation could
have bought several N.S.W. pits mining
first-class coal for the equivalent of what
it has shovelled out in strike-pay since its
1917 strike. Shares in N.S.W. coalmining
companies can always be picked up
cheap. As for propaganda, there must
be many N.S.W. unionists whose enforced
subscriptions have been drawn on to
support (1) the Lang “plan” of default
to the public creditor and the Common-
wealth Bank, and (2) the Communist cam-
paigns against “the imperialist war” and
for a Second Front in Europe, which at
the best would mean terrific slaughter of
the young men of our race —and that at
the instance of a foreign country.
Yet though the financial affairs of the
unions intimately concern a large part
of the nation, and should intimately con-
cern the national authority, there is no
official publication in which the facts are
placed on record. Not a line about union
finance ever appears in the Common-
wealth Year-Book. The N.S.W. Indus-
trial Registrar gives some attention to the
subject, but his reports are always old
when they appear, and he always explains
that, “inasmuch as each year a number
of unions fail to supply annual returns,”
the figures he publishes are “slightly in-
accurate.” In effect, there is no enforce-
able obligation to furnish him with
material information, though there are,
of course, steadygoing unions that do.
This nation has learned in bitterness
that it is cursed with union bosses and
union mobs who recognise no paramount
duty to it, even when it is struggling for
existence, and who hold themselves above
industrial law, military law and National
Security regulations. If it is to fight full
armed in the foreign war and avert the
peril of civil war, it must bring these
bosses and mobs under the restraints of
law. Since control of funds, vast in bad
cases, is one of their weapons, the bosses
should be required by law (penalty, im-
prisonment “without the option”) to pre-
pare and publish full and precise financial
statements annually, beginning with the
number of members at the end of the
year and the sums charged for mem-
bership during the year. Auditors, for
their part, should be legally required to
report, not to the bosses but to the mem-
bers, and publication should be such that
any member of any union may at any
convenient time ascertain for himself (or
herself) how his (or her) money has been
and is being spent.
Backfire Blitz.
Reports of the “non-stop” bombing of
Germany, German-occupied Europe and
Italy, bare and sketchy as they are, have
the character, in cable columns, of a
thriller serial. They give a daily lift to
everybody who wants to see this war
over and done with as soon as possible.
Though many might prefer to deny it,
there is also a savoring of revenge.
Here and there in the story crop up
asides like that broadcast from London
by a Czech spokesman: “It is true that
such raids as those against Czech targets
cause unavoidable and grievous suffer-
ing....” It is assumed that those who
thus suffer are looking at it from the
same viewpoint as the spokesman in
London —that the military significance
of the destruction of the Skoda and simi-
lar works overrides all.
Perhaps the assumption is right—at
any rate as regards the Czechs ; in other
occupied countries it might not apply so
well. However such sufferers feel about
it, few apart from them will deny its
necessity—it is war. There can be no
question, either, of its military value.
The damage done when a 40001 b. or an
80001 b. bomb falls on its target must be
colossal, and it has been the British
policy all along to aim as many such
bombs as possible at military targets.
Even without such a policy, continued
bombing of Germany would be sure of
an overwhelming vote from all who suf-
fered by or remember realistically the
ruthless use the Germans made of their
early air supremacy —the apparent relish
with which they bombed and machine-
gunned helpless fleeing civilians, their
frequent machine-gunning of people in
English streets and their indiscriminate
bombing of London and other parts of
Britain in an openly-avowed but vain
attempt to terrorise the British into turn-
ing it in.
With that vile record to think back on,
humanitarian feeling for the Germans
naturally stays at a discount, especially
among those who saw the Germans at
their worst, as the English did ; though
in England there have been published
protests, on humanitarian and idealistic
grounds, at the bombing of such places
as Cologne: “Why should it have been
necessary to send a thousand aeroplanes
to bomb Cologne, one of the most beau-
tiful cities in Germany?” (Hugh Quigley
in London “Fortnightly.”) For the time
being that would not represent general
feeling, which as good as certainly is
that the Germans are harvesting the crop
of their own sowing. They asked for it,
and they are getting it. Feeling prob-
ably runs higher than that, and hopes
that they will get a darned sight more
of the same before they are through.
Meanwhile there is one aspect of this
blitz that has backfired on its originators
that the daily serial of the cables fails
to bring home, though, fairly brought
home, it might help to put a stop to
such miserable performances as the
strike which 2200 men employed in pro-
tected safety in an Australian aircraft
factory chose to carry on while from
day to day and night to night the non-
stop backfire blitz on Germany was
going its strongest. It probably is wild
optimism to feel that there might be
such a result, since it would seem that
nothing short of the actuality of war will
ever cure home-fronters who scab in
safety on the front-line fighters who pro-
tect them and theirs. Still, there might
be second thoughts, a Government might
be more inclined to govern, people might
be a little less tolerant of both Govern-
ment failure and the scabs, and the cabled
reports might be taken less as an airy-
fairy serial making war a daily enter-
tainment if the part played by those who
are carrying on the blitz —in the great
majority anonymous and almost wholly
unconsidered in the daily serial reading
—could be properly appreciated,
A grim picture of the part these men
have to play was given in the February
“Nineteenth Century” by an R.A.F. in-
telligence officer in the closest touch with
their job. In the cables “R.A.F. Hits
Again” and suchlike headlines are so
familiar that they have become practi-
cally meaningless. Even the heavy loss
of 55 bombers on the night Skoda was
raided calls for a big effort of imagination
to get a real idea of it. About all the
general cable-serial reader registers is
probably that 55 bombers is a bit heavier
than usual, and, perhaps, that the loss
is curiously heavy compared with the
German losses when, say, Coventry was
wiped out. It certainly is hard to get
beyond such generalities to the personal
side of the business.
As to the comparative losses, the
“Nineteenth Century” writer, Flight-
Lieut. A. J. Brown, points out that,
whereas Coventry and other places in
Britain were practically unprotected when
the German blitz was on.
The whole of the Ruhr is now a fortress,
ringed round with the most devilish ■de-
fences that German ingenuity can devise:
heavy and light flak of the most intense
and accurate predicted kind; and in the
very heart of it lies Essen. It is like flying
over the walls of hell.
Before bomber 'crews raiding, say,
Essen can penetrate even the outer de-
fences of this formidable fortress, they
have to fly through the searchlight belt
which protects the approaches to the
Ruhr.
Most of the crews hate the searchlights
more than the flak. It is not merely be-
cause the searchlights work in conjunction
with the night-fighter patrols, who have all
the wireless and other aids that German
science has perfected, but simply to be
“caught and held” in a cone of a hundred
searchlights is one of the most hellish ex-
periences that can befall a heavy bomber.
How hellish that is perhaps nobody can
hope to realise fully without having actu-
ally experienced it; but the flight-lieu-
tenant tries to give some sort of picture
of it that might help aircraft-factory and
other strikers to get a fairer picture of
themselves:
From the moment they are caught the
whole aircraft is illuminated inside by the
dazzling glare of the beams and the captain
and crew are temporarily blinded. Only
great coolness and skill can bring them out
of the cone; and everything depends on
the pilot. If he loses his head he is a sitting
target for the ground defences or for the
pursuing fighter; and his aircraft may
come down in flames.
Perhaps impossible for ordinary imagi-
nation to cope with, the sight of a ’plane
coming down in flames —enemy or other-
wise—is an unforgettable sickening ex-
perience, and the smell is not to be for-
gotten either. Either could be warranted
to send aircraft-factory strikers, striking
wharfies or coal strikers back to a job
faster than they ever left one.
Another aspect which should be just as
telling, and which needs to be kept in
mind to prevent the cable serial from
being mere entertainment, is the fact that,
for a given period, it is, and must be, the
same squadrons that bear the brunt of
the attack over and over.
The same crews have to return to the
Ruhr and to Hamburg and Kiel repeatedly.
The aircraft come back damaged in various
degrees. Some are worse than others and
have to be withdrawn for complete over-
haul, but the crews, unless wounded —or
killed—have to be ready to fly again soon,
and probably to the same target The
bomber crews in this war have to pass
through the jaws of hell several times each
week as a matter of course... .to them
Essen is just grim and bloody routine. I have
seen crews come back from such missions
in the small hours of the morning dazed
and shaken; in one night they have passed
through more perils and faced more shot
and shell than most old soldiers ever saw in
the whole of their lives; they have also
flown anything from 800 to 1200 miles and
penetrated deep into enemy territory, but
after a night’s rest I have seen the same
crews return to the same target or to a
similar target time and again.
There is yet more to it:
Crews have gone out on their long
journeys over the North Sea or into the
heart of Germany when the weather has
been appalling: electric storms over the
North Sea; fantastic displays of lightning,
drenching rain or hail, icing troubles, gale
winds and —at the end of it all —ten-tenths
cloud over the target area. Some crews
may have been forced to turn back through
icing or technical failures, but the rest
have gone on fighting a terrific battle
against the elements and in danger of being
brought down at any moment by engine
failure.... After an all-night struggle, the
8.8. C. merely says, “Our bombers were
over Germany again last night.”
As far as the personal element goes,
that is all the cable serial also says. But
there is more to every flight by every
single ’plane taking part in the backfire
blitz on Germany than anything except
the actual experience can ever bring
home. And that goes for more than the
great men of the air. It is as true of t u
Navy fighting out the Battle of the
Atlantic; convoying up through tne
Arctic seas the supplies for Russia, u
goes for the men who charged at Ala-
mein and the men who fought througn
Papua. The full story of none of them
can be fully grasped on the home from
especially on a home front which has
been so spared the realities of war that
a few shortages of unessentialis m V*
midst of abundance feels llke
privation ; where it takes desperat
rising to beat up money for a wa r
and where strikes on the most fnyolou
of pretexts are as common now m tne
midst of war as they were in peace
anything, more common.


PLAIN ENGLISH
The "Rights" of Hangers-
Round.
With the Army and the Allied Works
Council still crying out for men, and
persons of both sexes still needed in
“Munitions,” Mr. Bellemore, the man
whose job is to get them in N. S. Wales,
has been paying attention to Sydney
haunts of individuals who appear to have
little to do and lots of time to do it in.
At the instance of this conscientious
director the patrons of fashionable
dinner-dance joints and hotel lounges
and the “sports” in clubs in which
settling-day is a tradition were rounded
up for inspection of identity cards and
personal interrogation as to their war
work, if any. For these operations Mr.
Bellemore could, if necessary, plead
sound British precedent.
Yet he has had the uncommon ex-
perience of being denounced on the score
of his forthright measures by two public
men who in politics are poles apart: Mr.
Lang and Mr. Anthony, M.H.R. Mr.
Lang has played so many parts in his
time that the community has lost the
capacity for being surprised at any role
he may assume, even that of defender of
the “rights” of “knuts” and “sports.”
But as an Old Digger Mr. Anthony
should know that there is a war on, and
that, with invasion still a deadly menace,
the pursuits in other hours of civilians
addicted to hanging round pub lounges,
dinner-dance joints and clubs where
bookmakers abound are proper subjects
for inquiry,
Mr. Bellemore permitted himself one
dry comment. He said that taking wagers
for a couple of hours on a Saturday and
settling for another couple of hours on
a Monday seemed a poor sort of war
effort. To this fighters and war workers
would add that it is one of those efforts
which should be suspended for the dura-
tion. If people must bet on horse- and
dog-races, let them bet on the tote, which
settles on the racecourse and whose turn-
over is taxed—and should be doubly
taxed by the Commonwealth.
While the descent on the two clubs was
drawing bitter protests from “sports,” an
army captain who had been a deputy
paymaster at Sydney Showground faced
the music in the Criminal Court. He
had been brought up on 25 charges of
stealing army funds amounting to nearly
£36,000, but only a matter of £7OOO was
proceeded with. To a detective he con-
fessed that he had lost all the money
punting, and that during the fortnight
which preceded the discovery of his
crime he had “spent about £2OOO betting
on horses and boatraces,” losing £lOOO
in one day. He was sentenced to seven
years’ imprisonment.
Bookmakers are intelligent enough to
know that army captains cannot afford to
bet in big amounts. Those who shared
in the proceeds of this deputy paymaster’s
frauds on the country deserve to be
tracked down and forced to make resti-
tution. That is all'that can be done now,
but in any future case of the kind the
receiver should be placed in the dock
with the thief.
Home Guard.
Holders of reserved-occupation jobs in
Sydney make a sorry showing in enlist-
ing for home defence. An officer appeal-
ing for recruits puts the figure at only 6
per cent, of those available in protected
jobs.
Against them can be set the fairly tidy
total who have kept the home-defence
outfits going from their beginning. Some
of these have now been on the job for
years, and, with week-end and some other
soldiering, have made themselves into
efficient units.
It has been suggested that the
name of the force —Volunteer Defence
Corps, shortened to V.D.C. —may act
against recruiting. There is something
in this. Apart from carrying a prevail-
ing wrong idea that the units are com-
posed of dodderers, thd initials have
obvious associations that don’t help. A
dreadful-looking color patch with those
initials on it also doesn’t help.
The organisation has the alternative —
and, as it happens, official —name of
Home Guard, which has a fine ring to
it and a splendid, if recent, tradition back-
ing it —that of the British Home Guard.
If V.D.C. became Home Guard re-
cruiting might improve overnight. It
might also improve if the nature of the
units for which recruiting has lately been
going on —the ack-acks and “heavies” of
home-defence positions—could be better
advertised. Any of these is as fine a unit
as anybody could wish to serve in. They
are composed mainly of reserved-occu-
pation men in their twenties and thirties,
with a sprinkling of last-war and present-
war Diggers who are in good shape. In
these new units, too, monotony—the bug-
bear of soldiering—is at a minimum.
They are lively outfits, linked up with
A.I.F. units. Anyone getting into them
finds himself doing a real Australian
defence job, and he certainly isn’t bored.
A Message from Wilson.
He is one of two Wilsons at Canberra:
We must take such men and women as are
required for victory and use them in the pro-
duction of things required by our fighting men.
We must take such money as is required and
stop this wanton waste of effort in man-power
and energy—inevitable so long as loans are
run on a voluntary basis.
We must treat civilian deserters as we treat
deserters from the Army The great majority
of us are prepared to sacrifice everything for
our country. But all are not doing it; not be-
cause the spirit is unwilling, but because the
Government is failing to give the proper
lead Those who have returned [from
the war] intend to restore Australia to its proper
place. To achieve this we must have a Gov-
ernment which will govern in place of the
shivering spectacle which calls itself the Aus-
tralian Government
We can provide full employment in peace-
time so long as we do not forget
that it is production that we live on,
that it is hard work that provides the produc-
tion and that it is money that exchanges the
production. Thousands of man-hours have s
been spent, reams of paper have been used,
in preparation of post-war plans, most of which
deal with pensions for the destitute and un-
employed. Instead of pensions we want work.
Instead of destitution in old age we want
savings. Instead of sickness we want health.
This outspoken Wilson is the Senator,
not the “Wheat, wheat” Independent.
Wilson of the Ninth Division, A.1.F.,
lately returned from action abroad, but
“a South Australian backwoodsman” to
Sydney writing boys.
Drift Accelerated.
Hopes that the war had somehow
arrested the drift of population to Mel-
bourne have been exploded by the Chief
Electoral Officer. While all the Greater
Melbourne electorates show massive addi-
tions since 1940, only Walhalla, Gipps-
land South, Ballarat, Geelong and a few
other country districts show increases,
and in every case they are small. In
Dunstan’s own electorate of Korong-
Eaglehawk the electoral population de-
clined from 11,102 to 10,161, and there
were decreases also in Benalla, Castle-
maine-Kyneton, Gippsland East, Gun-
bower, Hampden, Kara Kara-Borung,
Lowan, Maryborough-Daylesford, Ouyen,
Port Fairy-Glenelg, Rodney, Stawell-
Ararat, Swan Hill, Waranga, Warrenheip-
Grenville and Wonthaggi. All this after
a Country party has controlled the Mel-
bourne Parliament since April, 1935.
Froth First!
Thanks to “S. M. Herald,” the Sydney
public has learned that, “because of con-
tracts binding the major theatres” to show
other films, it won’t be able to see the
British picture “In Which We Serve” for
“several months.”
“In Which We Serve” is more than a
film. It is a saga of the Royal Navy,
which gets far too little publicity these
days. No British Commonwealth com-
munity should be prevented from see-
ing it while its historical associations are
still vivid in the public mind because
“Hollywood Hangover” or “Whose Popsy
Are You?” happened to be here first.
“S. M. Herald” has brought out
the fact that another British picture,
“First of the Few,” a story of the Spit-
fires, has been here even longer than “In
! Which We Serve” and has as little chance
of being screened this side of 1944. And it
pointedly reminds the responsible parties
that Australians have no idea when they
are going to see “Desert Victory,” the
film of the Eighth Army’s victory at El
Alamein and beyond—our Ninth Divi-
sion was at El Alamein—though “Rus-
sians are flocking to see ‘Desert Vic-
tory.’ ”
There are plenty of places in Sydney
for these films, and it is in the national
interest that they should be shown with
as little delay as possible. That goes .for
Australia in general. Mr. Curtin has
looked with no approving eye at the
crowds lined up outside cinema theatres
screening Hollywood froth and bubble,
and he should take a militant interest in
those “contracts” which compel the
screening of such stuff to the exclusion
of pictures that would instruct and
inspire.
MAY DAY’S THE DAY!
“For May Day this year the unions will make a drive to organise the greatest demonstration of working-class unity ever seen.” (“Ironworker.”)
“About 3000 members of the Sydney and Balmain branches of the Ironworkers’ Union decided to take a day’s holiday on Monday, May 3, in lieu of Anzac Day. Shop stewards
of the Sheet Metal Workers’ Union carried a similar motion.” (“S. M. Herald.”)


'THAT
'Va ~
the
Why carry an
unnecessary burden?
If you are an executor of an estate there must be times when you fee! the
strain of this extra and unnecessary burden. In these difficult times, _
responsM ity of trusteeship is too often a handicap in the proper supervision
and control of your own affairs which should be having all your attention
Why not be relieved of this extra burden? Let Burns Philp Trust Compa J
Limited take the load from your mind. This permanent msUtution, un e
experienced and capable direction, has the advantage of combined knowledge
rSance taxationfand investment which no individual executor could be
expected to have. The transfer of responsibility can be made simply and
promptly; and you will have the satisfaction of knowing that the estate will
be administered faithfully, efficiently, and in strict accord with the terms
of the trust. ■ , , .... , „
DIRECTORS—James Burns - Robert John (Worthy - Lewis Armstrong - Joseph M>tchell
Manager—C. H. Chester
Burns PhilpTrust
'C O A\ P A N Y
LIMITED
PHONE; B 7901.
B R 1.0 G E SJLR E JBJT BVD N E %
Box 543 B, G.P.0., Sydney.
YOU CAN STILL INVEST
IN NATIONAL SAVINGS BONDS
AND WAR SAVINGS CERTIFICATES
MAKE YOUR MONEY FIGHT
Space by the Manufacturers of
h dfg
REG? TRADE MARK
CE
POLITICAL POINTS
offence” no protest came from Monk
or any of his union friends.
Theodore, at grips with a parcel of
union secretaries, and at the top of his
form:
Members of the Civil Construction Corps
cannot pay allegiance to two bodies, the
Allied Works Council and the unions. The
Government has made me responsible for
works without which the Navy, Army and
Air Force could not defend Australia.
If I am to enforce its regulations against
members of the Civil Construction Corps
I will enforce them against union leaders
or union officials who mislead men and
urge them to break the regulations and
hold up vital work.
It recalls Lincoln, on a somewhat
similar occasion: “Must I shoot a simple
soldier boy who deserts while I must not
touch a hair of a wily agitator who in-
duces him to desert?” Lincoln’s way with
the wily agitator in question, a politician
By command of Ward, who was death
on national registers when “the capital-
ists” were in office, boys and* girls of 14
rad to register last week. Perhaps he’s
going to try to give them the vote.
Commonwealth Powers is now so pain-
ful a subject to Ministers at Canberra
that they never discuss it. Only in the
Sydney and Brisbane Parliaments and the
Tasmanian Assembly did the bill have
a smooth passage; it was conditionally
accepted at Melbourne (the condition
being general acceptance), hacked about
at Adelaide and Perth and fired out of
the Tas. Council, which afterwards
vetoed reference to a select committee.
Since the measure provided for the con-
tinued existence of the Six Excrescences
it is no great loss. And everything at
which its authors aimed can be accom-
plished via the Commonwealth’s financial
power, wisely exercised.
Headlines from one issue of a Sydney
daily:
Coal Down to Danger Level.
Troops on Wharves.
Blind Men in Anzac March.
High Prices for Yearlings.
The war doesn’t really clash with strikes
and other forms of sport.
One of the Lucky Lazzarinis —the
Federal one —has discovered that
“anarchy prevails in certain unions.” It
has been working up all the time since
Lazzarini became a politician in 1917,
as did his brother in the same year, but
he turned his blind eye on it till it em-
barrassed the Government in which he
is Minister for —yes —Home Security. In
fact, he contributed to it by becoming
totally blind and dumb in respect of
work-stoppers, though he has been a
regular geyser of invective against the
banks. And he was a servile follower
of Lang when Lang became a political
“scaler,”
Fifteen months have elapsed since the
P.M., distracted by thoughts of the Jap
onset and the simultaneous N.S.W. coal
strikes, cried in his agony that “men who
are not in the fighting forces and who
at the same time will not work are as
much the enemies of this country as the
directly-enlisted legions of the enemy. ’ It
is 11 months since two stillborn sets of
National Security regs. designed to com-
pel work-stoppers to work were super-
seded by a so-called peace code, the
Miners’ Federation having sworn by its
Red gods that the peace code would do
the trick. With the Coal Commissioner
reporting a production-loss of 750,000
tons in the first quarter of 1943 and
stocks dangerously low, the same Miners’
Federation has been heard from again.
It has called upon the unhappy Mighell
to “organise a campaign for greater pro-
duction,” at the same time calling upon
the Anglo-American Governments to
invade Europe Now.
When the calling of stopwork meetings
of men on vital war jobs was belatedly
challenged, A. E. Monk, president of the
A.C.T.U., “protested on behalf of every
unionist against the detention of a person
who had not been charged with an
offence.” When the Australia-Firsters
were arrested and held for several months
without having been “charged with an
"You come another yard and I’ll nose-dive!”
c f some tonnage, was to pass him into
the enemy’s lines.
Obviously trying to capitalise the stir
which the Soviet shooting of two Polish
Labor leaders,. Jews with influential
American friends, has caused in the
U.S.A. the Nazis have come out with
a story about a wholesale Soviet mas-
sacre of Polish officers alleged to have
been taken during the Russian invasion
0 f Poland and carried as prisoners to
Smolensk. It may be a ghastly Nazi he
—the long lapse of time is in itself sus-
picious—but to some English-speaking
persons the Sikorski Government’s request
for an International Red Cross inquiry
seems not unreasonable. Moscow nas
nevertheless seen fit to assert that the
Polish leaders have fallen into a trap set
by Goebbels’s provocateurs,” that ’pro-
Hitlerite elements wield great influence in
datatfe &
part of Poland occupied during the Nazt-
*£ celebrated
Easter in their familiar fashion. At Out
wich Hill Lang and anti-Lang
exchanged insults and challenges to> fig •
In the city the Hughes-Evans ( Hands
off Russia”) crowd agreed to affiliate to or
unite with or coddle the Corns, or some-
thing for “victory in the ‘people’s war.
The leader of the particular Labor
“party” which happens at present to be
the Sydney Government wrote his weekly
press article explaining why his great
housing scheme hasn’t schemed. Easter
Sunday being Anzac Day, half a million
Australians turned out to watch the Dig-
gers of the old and the new wars march.
It will be 100 years before Easter Sunday
and Anzac Day again fall simultaneously,
and by that time only the Diggers will be
remembered.
It was here forecast (31/3/ ’43) that
Sydney might have another bakers’ strike
unless stamps were released to put the
crosses on Easter buns. Hot cross buns
were banned by W. 0.1. No one could
be imaginative enough to predict the fan-
tasies of W. 0.1.
After Ward had “settled” the strike
in an aircraft factory it was coolly an-
nounced that “an effort will be made to
have shop stewards and shop com-
mittees given the right to peruse, and in-
vestigate if necessary, any proposed
call-up for the military”:—
The men consider this will be in the best
interests of the war effort and prevent vie-
timisation of prominent unionists
So in the defence of Australia shop
stewards and -shop committees are to
have more power than the Army,
The Commonwealth Statistician re-
ports that cost of living in Sydney has
risen by 22.3 p.c. since September, 1939.
Meantime, the high cost of maintaining
the Sydney Government goes on, though
the Government is neither edible nor
entertaining. . .
Coal Commissioner Mighell, warning
the nation about the dangerously low
level of coal stocks, complimented the
Collie (W.A.) coalies on maintaining a
high output with staffs depleted by enlist-
ments. They did it by working a 12-day
fortnight and cutting out holidays. How
about transferring some of them to
N.S.W. and replacing them with some
N.S.W. work-stoppers, who might benefit
from a stay in W.A.?
Ever since he ceased to be Queensland
Minister of Agriculture and became
Commonwealth Director-General of
Agriculture, the nation has been waiting
to hear from Bulcock on the subject of
food. Now it has heard from him and
is staggered;
With care, nobody in Australia should
go hungry.
To appreciate the profundity of this you
have to realise that Australia was, and
to a large extent still is, a producer of
a big export surplus of foodstuffs. It
also produces a big surplus of politicians
and departments, but it can’t export any
—worse luck.
Among other things stirred up by “S.
M. Herald’s” article on the shelving of
“In Which We Serve” was the N.S.W.
Films Commission, which was appointed
by Premier McKell as a win-the-war
measure or to assist N.E.S. or help keep
down rabbits or something. It stirred,
murmured something about a prepos-
terous condition of affairs” and promptly
relapsed into its coma.
Though Dunstan is in his ninth year
of office, his Country party has never
represented more than a minority of the
Victorian electors, and if it gets back in
June, as seems likely, the triumphant
minority may be smaller than ever. The
electoral rolls made up for the elections
show that Dunstan and his seven Assem-
bly Ministers (Lind, Old, Hogan, Bailey,
Mackrell, Hyland and Martin) represent
only 82,925 electors altogether. There
are nearly as many in the Greater Mel-
bourne electorates of Boroondara (38,979)
and Oakleigh (38,914) and far more in
those electorates and Heidelberg (37,416).
And Greater Melbourne has had no Min-
ister in either House since Dunstan came
along.
Young Mr. Holt, M.H.R., in reply to
a call from Archbishop Wand, of Bris-
bane, for reform in politics:
That cry goes echoing down the ages.
We have always been a lamentable lot, but
at least we are the choice of the people
and responsible to them. Occasionally we
produce a Churchill and a Roosevelt to
give inspiring leadership.
And, occasionally, a Mr. Holt.
The Queensland Premier professes to
be pleased with the result of the Oxley
by-election because the majority for Kerr,
C.-N.0., over the Labor man, Dr. Ditt-
mer —about 1000 when this was written
is less than that gained by. the late Nimmo.
He calls it an “improved Labor vote. ’ But
he didn’t mention that preferential voting
ruled in 1941, and was hurriedly abol-
ished by his party when it became evi-
dent that Queensland was getting sick
of Labor.
It is a wild night in classic Footscray
(Vic.). Mullens, M.L.A., is speaking, and
a horde of Communists is trying to howl
him down. Out of the hullabaloo emerge
confused impressions of a sort of ‘‘qmz*
the candidate having provided the
answers:
Yah, “protected industry”! What you
call a protected industry?—Communism.
Get work, you loafer! What do you
mean?—What I say. Communists must
be “protected,” for they do all their light-
ing” on the home front.
Home front, yah! Wot about a second
front? —I’m in favor of it. Siberia fox
ever!
Mullens may not have a Com. opponent
after all. Sharpley, “Red-racket” Thorn-
ton’s protege, was named as opponent,
but if he goes on he and the amalga-
mated” Thornton-bossed union risk ex-
pulsion by the Victorian A.L.P. executive.
There is more talk of settling Jews in
the Kimberleys. It seems unnecessary.
If the Sydney Government is allowed to
get away with its punitive tax there 11
be plenty of abandoned land out in the
N.S.W. merino country.


LOOK Through These Glasses
at Everything You Bay!
Exa3«a
■
From now until victory comes, patriotic buying must be the rule.
It will help mightily towards winning the war if we all buy longer-
lasting things—when we must buy at all.
feXide BATTERIES
Ijlpiij
11
Let this be Your
Wartime Slogan.
PERSONAL ITEMS
Awards to men fighting in New
Guinea include a Military Cross to Lieut.
Henry Baynton Somer Gullett, of Mel-
bourne. He led a company in three suc-
cessful attacks against a Japanese posi-
tion near the Black Cat track, covered
the company’s withdrawal, and then
assisted in carrying a wounded brother-
officer to safety. He’s a son of the late
Harry Gullett, war historian and Com-
monwealth Minister, who, incidentally,
published a book called Australia Un-
guarded.
A Methodist parson, Stanley Drum-
mond began an evangel of health for
western N.S.W. children back in 1926
after he had seen what sandy blight,
rickets and other things could do in the
dry and lonely outback. Out of his en-
thusiasm a great children’s health scheme
sprang into being, and its founder be-
came the west’s most-beloved figure. He
and his wife put a tremendous amount
of toil and travel into the scheme, which
today has assets worth around £50,000,
costs about £12,000 a year to run and
annually has upwards of 300 children,
most of them at the seaside, under its
care. Four clinic trains travel the big
distances out west bearing skilled help
to infants, and a vast network of local
organisations watches general child health.
Thousands of the inland youth today owe
health to the scheme. Drummond’s wife
died six months ago, and Drummond
himself passed out on Easter Saturday,
but from Cunnamulla to Curlwaa, from
The Barrier to the Marthaguy and down
to the Ninety Mile Bend their names will
live on.
“C.R.”: Apparently the days of splen-
dor have passed for Victoria. Although
there was a crowd of eminent and well-
lined citizens at Scott’s Hotel, Melbourne,
for the auction sale of Ercildoune, bid-
ding failed to touch the reserve put on the
property where the late Alan Currie and
other owners before him entertained
royalty. The highest offer came from
Cecil McKay, of harvester fame, at £7 ss.
an acre. This was the equivalent of
£55,172 for the whole property, including
the skull of the bushranger who once
terrorised the household from the neigh-
boring hills until he was shot by the
police. The only other bid was £7 an
acre from wholesale butcher William
Angliss, M.L.C.
A great K.C.:
One of the briefest entries in the Australian
Who’s Who has to do with a K.C. who was
one of Australia's outstanding lawyers:
Mitchell, Hon. Ernest Meyer, K.C., 8.A.,
LLJL, M.L.C., N.S.W.; address, Kurraba
Rd., Neutral Bay, Syd., N.S.W.
A better personal description of him could
hardly be written. Like the Who’s Who entry,
he was small and stocky; at Sydney Grammar
and Sydney Uni. he had the brilliant career
some of the letters after his name hint at; and,
as the bareness of the entry suggests, he was
one of the most modest of chaps. At the
address given he indulged in his hobby of grow-
ing some of the loveliest orchids to be seen
about Sydney, and for years he made up one
of a regular group of city men who travelled on
the Neutral Bay ferry. A good listener, he had
a knack of chipping in with the one question
that would put any utterer of a wild generality
well and truly on the spot, and, also the wittiest
of the party, he could be said to be mainly
responsible for every member of the group
going to his respective job with his thinking
apparatus keyed to its sharpest. Sixty-eight
when he died suddenly in his office last week,
Ernie Mitchell could have stepped up to the
Bench almost any time he wished, but he pre-
ferred to stick to the Bar. It was like him,
too, that he should have have turned in the
Sydney Uni. job of Challis Lecturer in Common
Law to enlist as a private in 1916. Chief
adviser to Commonwealth and State Govern-
ments on many enactments, he would have
been leading Commonwealth counsel against
the objecting States in the uniform-income-tax
tussle if his health hadn’t already begun to fail
him.
Forty years’ unbroken public service
can be chalked up to Tom Chappel,
elected to Queenton Shire Council (Q.)
in 1903. When the shire was amalga-
mated with Charters Towers City Coun-
cil he went in as an alderman and has
been there ever since. He was Mayor
in 1924-27. The Towers is claiming him
as a record.
“Kilo. 89”: This should be the last of
the number ones—MEXl, Capt. J. Dow-
ling, A.A.M.C., attached to an Autralian
General Hospital. With several British
infantry units in the Middle East as
R.A.M.C. medical officer, he transferred
to A.G.H. at Gaza and was allocated
No. MEXI. He came back to Australia
recently.
A general election at the end of this
year prevents M.L. Opposition-leader S. G.
Holland going to the Empire Parliamen-
tary Assoc, conference in London. His
place will be taken by W. P. Endean,
member for Remuera, Auckland. A
lawyer, Endean joined the R.N.V.R. in
the 1914-18 scrap and saw service as a
sub-lieutenant with the Dover Patrol.
Educated at Auckland University Col-
lege, he collected his LL.B. in 1906.
Allied Works Council had occasion the
other day to issue an announcement that
sounded like a citation from a com-
mander in the fighting services. There
was an air raid on a C.C.C. assignment,
and two bombs fell on a building in pro-
cess of erection. One remained unex-
ploded, and Arthur Hill, a motor
mechanic, ran for his mate, Colin Munro,
to help him remove the ton of so of ex-
plosive. Hill stood guard and Munro
went for a lorry, and, with Harry Man-
lein and Les Poulter assisting, the lethal
object was put aboard and then driven
into the bush. Two tons of gelignite
were stored in one of the buildings near
where the bomb landed.
Melba’s descendants now include a
second great-grandson, a son having been
born in London to Mrs. Pamela Vestey,
daughter of George Armstrong (son of
the late diva) and Mrs. Armstrong, of
Coombe Cottage, Lilydale (Vic.). Inci-
dentally, there’s now a factory in Burn-
ley-street, Richmond, on the site of Doon-
side, Melba’s birthplace. The old race
from which the family drew its water
still serves the factory.
The official announcement of the
return of Wing-Commander Arthur
Leonard George Hubbard, D. 5.0.,
D.F.C., from the R.A.F. to the R.A.A.F.
mentioned that “on one occasion he
landed his aircraft at base in a thick
fog.” An R.A.F. flight-lieut. has com-
mented on this kind of feat: “The cap-
tains get no plaudits beyond a word of
praise from the Station Commander when
they make a safe landing in poor visi-
bility. On one such flight the whole of a
reduced squadron had to turn back owing
to a variety of failures: in one case an
engine caught fire and the port-airscrew
fell off while they were circling to make
a forced landing. The others force-landed
all over the south, but one crew man
aged to make the whole distance and
landed back safely at their parent aero-
drome after an epic struggle lasting nine
hours.” Wing-Commander Hubbard en-
listed in the R.A.A.F. from Strathfield
(Sydney) in 1936. A natural leader, he
has had a splendid career with the R.A.F.
Allan McDougall and John Grant, two
1914-vintage N.S.W. Senators, are long
dead; John Travers, who had a hand in
their success by carrying on McDougall’s
job while he stumped the country, has
now joined them. “Jupp” Gardiner, third
of the Labor trio on that occasion, is
alive and, but for some deafness, lively.
A great footballer in his youth, he lives
at Bondi Junction and is a devotee of
chess. He’s played in A-grade teams
and against champions.
Dr. Leonard A. Windsor-McLean, a
pathologist who has moved about a bit,
now goes from St. George Hospital, Syd-
ney, to be Brisbane Council’s acting
Health M.O. A graduate of Adelaide
Uni., he was resident M.O. at Adelaide
and Hobart Generals before doctoring at
New Norfolk (Tas.) mental hospital.
Later he was with the Commonwealth
Health Department, then chairman of Mt.
Isa medical board and M.O. at Nauru,
“Spooks”: When unprotected New Guinea
lay at the Japs’ mercy and their bombers could
come over without bothering about fighter pro-
tection, “Old John” Jackson was given a few
newly-landed Kittyhawks and a few keen-eyed
eager youths who had never flown a Kitty and
was sent to cope with things. This was the be-
ginning of Squadron 75—Empire-trained youths
and Kittyhawks. “Old John” taught them all
he knew; then he led them out against impos-
sible odds. Rabaul had fallen, Lae was in
Jap hands, Moresby seemed an easy third.
Jackson’s squadron went out and the Japs
wondered what had struck them. The new
lads painted the sky red, and did for Aus-
tralia what other youthful fighters in Hurri-
canes and Spitfires did for Britain. Five Kitty-
hawks went up led by Jackson in the initial
fight for Moresby; two came back. “Old
John” Jackson died “giving ’em hell,” as he
wished. It was also a Jackson who flew the
last of the squadron home again—Leslie Jack-
son, “Old John’s” brother. He and two others
were flying the last three Kitties back to the
mainland when a flight of Zeros swooped and
emptied two out of the sky. One Kitty was
left. Les brought it in and grounded it. A
while back they named one of the New Guinea
airfields after “Old John.”
Queenslander and D.F.M. winner Sgt.
George W. McMaster and his twin
brother Phil, now with the Queensland
Ambulance Brigade, were born shortly
before their father was killed at Villers
Bret. A nephew of knight Fergus Mc-
Master, George is one of the “Catalina
boys” who have fought the Japs from
Papua to the Solomons. A wireless
operator, he has 1500 operational hours
to his credit.
Australia’s most quoted bishop—Burg-
mann, of Goulburn—is'an N.S.W. North
Cowster, b. Manning River, and due for
a 58th birthday on May 9, In appear-
ance he’s big and heavy, and a thinner
voice hasn’t often come out of so solid
a container. The high thinness of it
surprises anybody who hears Bishop
Burgmann for the first time, after having
for years read newspaper reports of his
BISHOP BURGMANN.
Leftist utterances he’s Australia’s
counterpart of the Dean of Canter-
bury. Offsetting that are a persuasive
platform manner and plenty of patience.
An M.A. of Sydney Uni., he was
ordained deacon in 1911, and a couple
of years later was rector of Gundy.
Moving to England, he was curate. Holy
Trinity, South Wimbledon, in 1914-15 ;
then was back in N.S.W. at Wyong, Armi-
dale and Morpeth before being conse-
crated at Newcastle and enthroned in
Goulburn Cathedral in 1934.
A Digger lieut. back with the 9th Divvy
dropped in on The Bulletin with a great
word for fellow-lieutenant Lindsay
Thomas, the Adelaide singer, who col-
lected an M.C. at Alamein. Said the
other lieut.: “Thomas has one of the
best voices I ever listened to, but what
was most remarkable was his cheerful-
ness. He’d had a leg badly damaged in
the Alamein show, and was a hospital
case with the damaged leg held up in
the air with weights. But even that didn’t
alter him. He sang just the same, and
he did the whole lot of us a ton of good.”
When Canberra has a secret session
it would be an extremely old hand among
the scribes trooping out as “strangers”
who’d been doing Federal politics for,
say, 20 years. Last time “strangers” were
“spied” in the House of Commons the
scribes trooping out included Sir Alex-
ander Mackintosh, who was present when
Gladstone introduced the first Home Rule
Bill. That was in 1886, so Sir Alexander
has been acquiring the character of
“stranger” for upwards of 57 years. He’s
an 85-year-old “stranger.”
Cabled that Aberdeen Uni. (Scotland)
has conferred an honorary LL.D. on
Prof. John Rawson Elder, Otago Uni.
(M.L.). Son of a Scot attached to the
Army at Gibraltar, the prof, was bom
on the Rock. Educated at Aberdeen, he
became a noted master in English, modern
languages and history there, annexing
his Doctor of Literature in 1912, Since
1920 he has occupied Otago’s chair of
history. His writings on history (Scot-
tish and M.L.) include Journals and Let-
ters of Rev. Samuel Marsden, reviewed
a while back in The Bulletin.
Promoted lieut.-col. with the R.A.M.C.
in India, Dr. Stanley P. Bellmaine (Syd-
ney) was in England before the war
studying for the Royal College of Sur-
geons’ fellowship exam., but enlisted with
the 19th Field Reg. before hostilities
broke out. At Dunkirk his was the last
British unit to leave. He waded out to
the tugboat which was to take him to
England. He graduated in medicine and
surgery at Sydney Uni. in 1933 with first-
class honors and the University Medal,
and won many other prizes. Before
doing Medicine he did a year in Econo-
mics and collected a couple of Ec. prizes.
Spare-time job in India is learning Urdu,
the native language common in his dis-
trict. He’s 33.
J. C. Gavitt, of Launceston, lately 92,
was born at Rhode Island (U.S.A.) in
time to be the first officer sworn in
when a police force was formed at West-
erley. He came ashore in Hobart in
1876 from a whaler, joined the Hobart
police and was a detective-sergeant
within six weeks. He claims to be the
oldest Freemason in Tasmania, having
been one for 73 years. He holds a gold
medal which he got from President
Ulysses S. Grant for good work in a
shipwreck.
Shepparton radio announcer Gordon
Bell has gone on to a B.E.F. commission
from the A.I.F. ranks. Loaned to
Palestine Radio to do an hour’s A.I.F.
broadcast each day, he handled it well,
and was ceded to the station while his
A.I.F. unit was centred there. The unit
moved off without him, as the G.O.C.
thought Bell’s radio work was as good
propaganda as it was entertainment. Later
the B.E.F. took over the station, and
placed Bell in control of it. He’s now
Captain Bell, 8.E.F., and O.C. Palestine
Radio.
In action it’s often a toss-up between
some hastily-taken decision leading to a
decoration or to a carpeting. A case in
point was the decision acted on by Lieut-
Commander Bruce McCandless in the
Solomons naval scrap last year in which
his superiors on the San Francisco, Rear-
Admiral Callaghan and the cruiser’s
skipper, Capt. Young, were both killed.
McCandless was familiar with the plan
of action, having been present at pow-
wows with Callaghan and Young. The
plan involved a very daring manoeuvre,
and McCandless feared that officers com-
manding other ships mightn’t take in-
structions if they knew these weren’t
coming from the admiral. Also, it was
vital to keep news of the admiral’s death
from the Japs. So McCandless sent out
orders from time to time in the admiral’s
name. As it happened, it turned out all
right, and McCandless, who, after the
action, reckoned he’d be lucky to get off
without a court-martial, received the
Congressional Medal of Honor for his
“brilliant incognito leadership.”
Into the silence:
In Sydney, at 80, knight Arthur Cocks,
former N.S.W. Treasurer and Agent-General
in London, Sydney Lord Mayor, and director
of the substantial optical and jewellery concern
which carries his name and with which he had
been associated for over half a century.
In Adelaide, at 78, Bernie Scrymgour, head
of a printing and law-stationery firm. About
1890 he was a steady batsman helping Lyons,
Jarvis and the Giffens to put S.A. on the map
in cricket. Later he was president of S.A.
Cricket Assoc, till ill-health compelled him to
hand over to his old comrade Harry Blinman.
At Gisborne (M.L.), at 74, W. Barrington
Miller, former manager of Union Theatres in
Sydney and director of Australian Films,


Society
"AND IT'S PRINTED
WITH WIMBLE'S INKS"
“T. McN.”: A young woman suing for
breach of promise in Sydney told the
Court she was earning £4 ss. a week in
a Government job and (after the way
of Australian Governments) spent “every
penny of it, as well as money given by her
parents,” on a £5OO trousseau, which in-
cluded a £5O fur coat, a £57 fur cape,
an £8 18s. 6d. evening cape, 24 pairs of
stockings, three house coats, Royal
Doulton and other English china
tea- and dinner-sets, an English china
coffee set, a silver coffee set, cutlery
worth £6O and linen worth more
than £lOO. All her coupons had
gone on the trousseau and there was
a wedding-gown costing £l4 15s. Sum-
ming up, the Judge said the jury “might
feel surprised” that in these days a young
woman could spend so much. Possibly
it surprised the young man,- a metal
worker, into wondering how the devil he
was going to foot it with a wife who had
ideas like those of an Australian Govern-
ment. The jury gave her a verdict for
£2OO, and she promptly told a flapper-
press reporter “It’s not enough. I
wanted more. He broke the contract.”
* * * *
“Craiser”; Every week Melbourne’s
A.R.P. let a blast off on their sirens to
see if the apparatus is in good condition.
Citizens are used to it now, although
once they weren’t, and they are so used
to it that when a real warning comes a
lot of them will probably refuse to be-
lieve it. But the startling roar came in
such an appropriate context the other
day that even a group of hardened press-
men was momentarily taken in. The
P.M. was discoursing on military de-
velopments in the North and happened
to mention that we could expect stronger
and fiercer air raids in the near future.
The sirens blared in the very middle of
the sentence.
“Zake”: A contemporary has referred
to a picture from the British War Art
exhibition as “a semi-abstract of ruins,”
in which “the careful insistence on ver-
ticals relieved only by one half-circle
gives a very subtle sense of the heroic,
the striving ” As a post-vorticist with
a leaning to the gaga school, I can admit
the devastating effect on the beholder of
a semi-abstract of ruins containing only
a segment of a circle, but the commen-
tator commits himself too far. The semi-
circle may be a symbol for chivalry or
despair or a hamburger drawn from the
artist’s sub-conscious soul, instead of a
representation of the heroic. Of course,
if it had been a quarter-abstract of ruins,
with a full circle relieved by horizontal
lines, the ruins mightn’t be judged to be
striving, but to have relapsed into ruin.
We modern artists don’t care for critics,
anyhow. What do they know of what
the artist means by his paintings? No more
than the painter knows what the critic
means by his words.
* * * *
“Melbn”: All typhoid carriers don’t
act like “Typhoid Mary” (B. 14/4/’43).
During the Cheltenham (Vic.) outbreak,
now happily abated, the finger of sus-
picion was pointed at a certain woman.
She was proved to have been a carrier
on a previous occasion, people knew
some (but not all) of her history, and
some sent threatening letters. The part of
her history they didn’t know was that
when she learnt she was the source of
the previous infection she went to the
authorities and asked them what she could
do about it. They told her that she could
cease to be a menace if she consented to
an operation from which some patients
never recovered. She underwent the
operation, which was successful.
* * # *
“Oxmead”; After Tennyson’s death,
the Laureateship was left vacant for over
three years, mainly, it was said, because
of Queen Victoria’s objections to one or
two poets whose claims hardly needed
“It’s dead easy—I saw ’em do it on the pictures once."
stressing (B. 21/4/”43). I don’t think
Kipling was so much in question—he had
hardly come to his full stature in the
early ’nineties —but Swinburne un-
doubtedly towered above all others in
his own line. It was alleged that some of
his writings in his early republican days
were beyond forgetting or forgiving by
the Crown and the Court. One of them
was the blistering address to the House
of Lords, beginning
Bright sons of sublime prostitution,
You are born of the mire of the street
Where your grandmothers walked in pollution
Till a coronet shone at their feet!
You are worthy to reign o’er your brothers,
To condemn them as clods and as carles,
Who are graces—by grace of such mothers
As brightened the bed of King Charles.
Algernon became loyal and conventional
enough in his later years at Putney, but
nobody who read the foregoing was ever
likely to forget it.
* * * * .
“H.S.G.”: Out walking with my wife
in King’s Cross, Sydney, I was startled
to see a row of bare legs dangling from
the broad window ledge of a first-floor
flat. Their owners, frocks tucked up to
stocking-top height, beamed on the
passers-by. “Sunbaking their legs so they
can go without stockings,” the wife ex-
plained tartly as she dragged me away,
* i: * *
“Avon” unfurls some ancient and
modern Maori history:
The second Great War has done for the
Maori people what the first failed to accom-
plish—it has healed the feud between the
Tainui tribes (now known as the Waikato, after
the coastal district they inhabit) and the Arawa
tribes, whose land lies in the thermal district
round Rotorua. Tainui was one of the great
double canoes that made the voyage from
legendary Hawaiki; Arawa was another. The
feud began, it would seem, when a young chief,
suspected to be a Tainui, burnt the Arawa
canoe. That happened long after the hegira,
but more than a century ago. The Waikatos
not only antagonised the Arawas, but made
war on the British, and, as a result, saw much
of their land confiscated. Thereafter their po!
tics took on an Ishmaelitish complexion, a
they refused for decades to co-operate with tne
rest of the race in the betterment schemes
initiated by Ngata and other enlightened leaders.
That phase was ended not so long ago tmougn
the' wise leadership of the Princess Te M
Herangi. And just recently, when the Arawas
assembled to open a great meeting-house at
Ohinemutu, named after Tama Te Kapua (he
who steered the Arawa canoe to Ao-tea-roaj,
there came among them a delegation ot Wai-
katos, headed by their king, Koroki. Ihe
Arawa wahines received these visitors in tra-
ditional peaceful manner, waving green branches
and singing chants of welcome. Next day
Priminister Fraser opened a conference or the
whole Maori race, now quite united, to discuss
plans for systematic reinforcement of the Maori
units that are helping General Montgomery to
chase Rommel out of Africa and other matters
arising out of the Maoris’ wholehearted partici-
pation in the pakeha’s war.
* * * *
“Locnam”: Amongst the complement
of an Allied hospital ship are three nurses
who have become firm friends. Their
names are Pike, Herring and Troutman,
and they take delight in surprising people
by always being introduced to them in
that order. But this effect is mild com-
pared with one given by some members
of the same Ally’s army. They are Lieut.
Stewart D. Heil, Capt. Paul Hitler and
Capt. Carl G. Goering.
» * * •
“Taniwha”: One of those problems
that lawyers love and that laymen, if
they are shrewd, avoid raising has been
enlivening the otherwise dull routine of
the Maoriland Appeal Court, An elderly,
wealthy merchant quarrelled with his 60-
year-old wife and left home. Wife ob-
tained order for restitution of conjugal
rights ; husband refused to comply. Some
time later wife applied for maintenance,
and a Supreme Court Judge ordered hus-
band to pay £2OOO a year, free of tax.
He made no demur to that, but coun-
tered with a Supreme Court order (made
by another Judge) giving wife seven days’
notice to vacate the old home. The
Appeal Court (consisting of three Judges
who had so far had nothing to do with
the case) was asked to consider whether
the Married Women’s Property Act,
under which the order to quit was made,
could be used to benefit a husband who
was flouting an order of the Court. Coun-
sel for the wife further argued that there
was no point in the Court ordering a man
to return to his wife if she wasn’t to be
allowed to stay at home waiting for him
to return. A Judge mildly suggested (in
reply to the flouting argument) that he
could find nothing in English or New
Zealand law empowering a Court to com-
pel a man to live with his wife if he
didn’t want to. Towards the end of the
hearing it was foreshadowed that the
wife might be induced to accept an in-
crease in alimony as compensation for
loss of the house. When these lines were
written the Court was still brooding over
its decision.
* * * *
“Ajax”; It may be hooey to say that
the Japanese who surrenders is eternally
disgraced (B. 7/4/’43); nevertheless the
fact remains that, except for the handful of
exceptions which proves the rule, Japs
don’t surrender. That is borne out by
our official estimates of casualties as well
as by a hundred incidents described by
dur soldiers and sailors ; and, while it
is more difficult to be certain in the case
of airmen, there seems little doubt that
many of their beaten fliers have deli-
berately refused to bale out. The fact
that Jap airmen are supplied with para-
chutes does not, ,as someone has sug-
gested, make this improbable. Parachutes
could be supplied for use over Japanese-
controlled territory only ; fqx, whether an
airman’s life is worth saving or not, his
training and experience certainly are. So,
whatever Japs at home think about it,
it seems that their fighting man is so
firmly convinced that it is a disgrace to
be taken prisoner that he prefers to die.
He * * *
“Looby”: It’s amazing what little
things (in addition to usherettes in
crowded theatres) can separate a pair.
Bill was almost engaged to Clarice,
though now and then we thought he
seemed a bit dubious. Yesterday he ad-
mitted all was off. “It’s words mainly,”
he said. “They seem to put us in entirely
different worlds. She doesn’t like it, and
I like it less. Y’ see, Clarice darnces. I
dance.”
♦ sH *
“Tank Stream” on Sydney’s genesis;
When Governor Phillip sailed from Port
Jackson in the ship Atlantic on December 11,
1792, to return home, he saw at least some
tangible results of his attempt at empire-building
in the South Seas. There is a plan in existence
in Sydney’s Mitchell Library, on which he wrote
a note about a week before his departure, that
shows the settlement as it was when he last
looked at it from the harbor. He had built bar-
racks, hospitals, a gaol, storehouses and brick
buildings for the convicts. The village extended
as far as the present King-street and George-
street is defined to the latitude of that part of
it now known as the Haymarket, where the road
curved round to the east above the source ot
a creek which ran into Darling Harbor, or
Cockle Bay as it was then. Portions of the
present Pitt, Castlereagh and Hunter streets are
shown, and a road leading from the bridge
across the Tank Stream is part of the present
Bridge-street. David Collins records that the
works in hand at the beginning of the year in-
cluded “building brick huts at Sydney for con-
victs, consisting of two compartments, each
hut being 26ft. in front and 14ft. in depth, and
intended to contain 10 people, with a suitable
allotment of garden ground.”
* He * *
“Tatsreal”: On the rare occasions when
I attend a musical festival of any kind
in Sydney the whole thing is spoilt for
me by the persistency with which most
of the audience treat it as a vaudeville
show —wherein every “turn” is applauded.
You can’t get the feeling of a continu-
ous musical story like “Messiah,” which
is a whole divided into three parts and
can be appreciated only as a whole, like
a play in three acts, when a burst of
clapping follows every orchestral bit or
vocal solo. It may be claimed that the
clapping section is so familiar with the
work that it wants to express its appre-
ciation of each separate paragraph, but
that’s rubbish, since it claps regardless
as soon as there is a pause. A music-
lover from the bush who grabbed the
chance to come to the latest offering at
Sydney Town Hall (he has to do with
radio versions at home) almost wept and
said to me “Why don’t they whistle and
stamp their feet while they’re at it?
Personally I wouldn’t have been a bit
surprised if the crowd had demanded an
encore here and there. ,
t- * * *
“Loc”: Learning from friends that her
son appeared in a current newsreel of
Timor, a mother eagerly went along to
view it. Excitement, however, proved
too much, and just before the place where
a glimpse of her son could be had she
fainted. Undeterred, she paid another
visit —with the same result. Soon it be-
came a race against time, and theatre at-
tendants were amazed at her regular
attendance and equally regular result.
Then her husband (a medico) came to the
rescue, and, buttressed by spouse and
smelling salts,~the lady tried again. But,
at the crucial moment, with a quiet
sigh, she went out like a candle in a
hurricane.
TAXPAYERS’ PUZZLES.
“Australian income-tax assessments, so simple and
intelligible in Britain, baffle all but mathematicians.”
You can answer most questions that at you are
shot
Though your technical knowledge be puny,
Though no prize at a school ever fell to your
lot,
Much less a degree at a Uni.
You can follow the statements you read in the
press—
Save, p’r’aps, an occasional lone one—
Though all of the knowledge of tongues you
possess
Begins and concludes with your own one.
You can cope with the argot that lawyers
employ
Or the terms of a pompous physician,
But if you’re impressed
With the need for a quest
Of clues on the ways in which income’s assessed,
You’d best be a mathematician.
At crossword conundrums you may be a whiz,
At double acrostics a stunner;
And the artless diversion entitled a “quiz”
May sometimes have proved you a oner.
You may even have worked out some problem
(who knows?)
That others abandon with curses—
The meaning of Joyce’s bewildering prose,
For instance, or Eliot’s verses.
You may revel in lore of the planets and stars,
But if ever you're fired by ambition
To discover and know
On what system they go,
The fellows who rake in our income-tax dough,
Ygu must be a mathematician.
«
To get the full strength of their intricate brew,
Their incomprehensible jorum,
You should grapple with indices, logarithms,
too,
And return to your Pons Asinorum.
You may study the papers as long as you
choose
And they’ll leave you dejectedly guessing
On how in the world they determine your dues,
The pundits who do the assessing.
You’ll stump up, of course, but it’s safe to
assert
You’ll never obtain a remission
If errors exist
And points have been missed.
As is likely enough in so lengthy a list,
Unless you’re a mathematician.
N.S.W.
T. THE R.
THE CONSCIENTIOUS NUDE.
I’ve heard of her for fifty years or more,
And still remain unable to decide
Exactly what the adjective is for
By which the substantive is qualified.
Quaint are the terms and labels cut-and-oneo
For articles through artists’ optics viewed.
Please tell me, somebody —I need a guide
What’constitutes a conscientious nude?
“Acting uprightly,” “scrupulously just”
The diction’ries its meaning thus express.
But how can such an epithet be thrust
Into proximity with nakedness?
It strikes me as a poser, I confess,
The more the puzzling subject is pursued,
How does she differ from a conscienceless
One, I would ask—a conscientious nude/
When Eve tripped daintily ’mid Eden trees
With nobody but Adam there to see;
When on her mount Godiva hit the breeze
No mantle but her mane, through Coventry,
When for their date with Pans went those
three
Bare goddesses up Ida’s altitudes,
Tell me could all, or any, of them be
Fairly described as conscientious nudes.
In many a picture-frame, in stark undress,
Dames have I seen by painters arts endued
With various attributes of loveliness,
But I’m as far from grasping still, 1 guess,
What differentiates a conscienceless
From what they style a conscientiou.
N.S.W.
MIDFORD.


“Wodgil”: A touching picture of a
sightless soldier being led along a Papuan
track by a Fuzzy-Wuzzy has appeared in
American and Australian journals. In
the American papers the poor chap is
described as an Australian, in the Aus-
tralian papers as an American or as
“a blinded soldier.” In the New York
“World-Telegram’s” version he is “a
wounded Australian infantryman, blinded
by an exploding shell on the Buna front
before the Allies wiped out the Japs
there.” The point should be cleared up
by the Department of Information, for
the picture (as poignant a thing of its kind
as 1 have seen) should be part of its
appeal to careless people devoid of imagi-
nation and to the hearts and consciences
of slackers—if they have any,
* * * *
“Pawang”: The case of a workman in
Melbourne who died of tetanus two days
after getting a slight scratch on the hand
reminds me. A dairyman went to a
country doctor with a crushed hand.
After rendering first aid the medico told
his patient to go to the chemist and get
some plastine or similar compound and
make a poultice of it. A few days later
his patient turned up again with the in-
jured member swathed in bandages.
“Ah,” said the doctor, “I’m glad to
see you followed my instructions and
put plastine on it,” “No,” said the
patient. “I couldn’t get that stuff,”
“What did you use, then?” asked the
doctor. “Equal parts of cow and horse
manure,” said the patient. He recovered.
* * * t
“O’l-timer”: Mr. Dedman has been
heartuy cursed for many things; let me
utter a blessing on the man. When he
first got busy with his call-ups among
the young shop assistants a common
experience of the shopper was to be
treated cavalierly by those left behind.
This wasn’t a new experience, since the
modern shop assistant wasn’t particu-
larly noted for Chesterfieldian courtesy,
but it became a bit hard to take as time
and the Man-power department worked
their will in stores. It was fast get-
ting to the stage where the customer was
expected to overflow with gratitude if
he were even noticed. But a change has
come, a marvellous and benevolent
alteration. Old hands are being called
from retirement to fill the gaps in the
retail front, and it’s like going back 20
years to walk into a store and have a
silvery-haired old gentleman —and I
mean gentleman—come forward and ask
if he can be of assistance and give you
a smile that suggests he finds it a very
great pleasure to be able to serve you.
For having brought that about, Deddy
can draw a pot on my name at-any pub
he chooses.
* * * *
“S.T.S.”: G. H. Pitt, who runs the
archives section of Adelaide Public
Library, records an extraordinary wind-
fall. When the publishing offices of
Fleet-street and Paternoster Row were
being badly bombed, a man who hap-
pened to be connected with Adelaide
“Advertiser” picked up in the street a
charred book, blown out from some van-
ished building, and he has now sent it
along to Adelaide. It is a second volume,
unbound, of E. J. Eyre’s work (London,
“I managed to ‘soften-up' your objective , sir!"
1845) on his explorings from Adelaide to
Perth. Damaged by both fire and water,
it yet contains a lot of readable printer s-
proof corrections, pretty certainly in
Eyre’s own handwriting.
» * * *
“Cauboy”: Marjorie Lawrence’s heroic
fight against partial paralysis (B.
14/4/’43) has had a parallel in Mel-
bourne. A young man who goes in for
beating weight-lifting records and drag-
ging fire engines and two-decker motor-
buses along with his teeth had his left
leg badly smashed, and for six months
was completely encased in plaster from
the waist down. Ordered to rest, he fae-
came terrified at the thought of the pos-
sible atrophy of his muscles. So he got
a friend to smuggle into the ward a set
of springs on which he secretly exercised
his arms and chest until he was pulling
apart six strong springs as easy as taking
the hat off a bottle. One evening the
nurse caught him at it and reported him
to the doctor. The bedridden patient
demonstrated his renewed strength to the
physician. “I can’t believe it,” said the
doctor. “You must be a freak.” The
first thing the freak did after he had got
out of his plaster was to break his own
teeth-pulling record by 4\ tons. What
is more, the injured left leg, the
most important muscle of which is in
the hospital dustbin, is now stronger than
the right one. As “A Major ’ says about
Miss Lawrence, it was “faith and prayer’
that did it.
* * * *
“Tuart”: I have read somewhere that
T. S. Eliot is the high priest of “modern
poetry.” Having heard him declaiming
some of his verses (8.8. C. put him on
recently) I hereby reaffirm the convic-
tion, obviously shared by millions of my
generation who read Tennyson, Fitz-
gerald, Swinburne, Kipling, Dobson and
our own Gordon, Kendall, Paterson,
Daley and Lawson with delight, that
“modern poetry” is a pain in the neck.
Eliot’s voice is dry, harsh and monoto-
nous, and he spoke his lines without a
trace of feeling. A more dismal per-
formance I have never listened to.
* * * *
“Ky”: The sign “Ve Vill Yin” painted
on a'wall in Sydney’s Bridge-street (B.
10/2/’43) so far from having the anti-
Semitic touch suggested by “Loo,"
came from one of our Allies. The
“V” originated with a Belgian an-
nouncer, Victor de Lavelaye, who tried
it on the Belgians long before it was
taken up in other lands, and the “V
business made headway against lingual
handicaps. Greece had no V, nor did
Yugoslavia or Poland. The Greeks
got over the trouble by limning the n
in nike (victory) so as to resemble a V.
It was Norway that plumped for “Ve Vill
Vinne,” which means just that.
«** • *
“X.S.”: A frequent offender up again
before the City Court in Melbourne on
the same old charge was asked how he
had been conducting himself since he
was released on a bond to be of good
behavior. “Have you been temperate?
asked the Beak. “No, I haven’t,” pas-
sionately averred the habitual. “Perhaps
you didn’t hear what 1 said,” said the
magistrate. “I asked you if you had
been temperate.” “I swear, y r Onah,
I haven’t.” “Perhaps he doesn’t alto-
gether understand your language,” offered
counsel. “Now, my man, since we saw
you last have you done any drinking?
“Never touched a drop,” asserted the
old offender.
sf; # *
“Adelaide”: A new defence against a
sentence of deportation has cropped up
in two States. A Spaniard arrived In
Perth, and it was proposed to send him
back to Spain; but a local agitation urged
that, as he had fought against Franco, he
would be shot on returning, so he was
allowed to remain in Australia on pro-
bation. Then he worked round by way
of Darwin to Port Augusta (S.A.), where
he got into trouble (though not without
provocation) for “actual bodily harm,
and the old argument was renewed. How-
ever, by the Court’s recent sentence, the
point need not be reconsidered for an-
other 11 months.
* * * *
“Strict Veg.”: The objection to dietitians’
diets (B. 14/4/’43) is not the individual
stomach but the fact that every article
of food we eat and everything we drink
has different associations for different
individuals. A fixed diet may be theo-
retically perfect, but in one person it
will find a different host from what it
does in another because of their different
associations. If spinach has unfortunate
associations for a person because he was
forced to eat it by an anxious mother,
the sight of a dish of, spinach will pro-
duce an unpleasant feeling. The un-
pleasant feeling isn t grounded in the
spinach, which another person may find
delightful, but in the memories it con-
hires nn As “Sneezv” savs a healthv
jures up. AS aneezy _ says, a nealtny
person may stay healthy by avoiding
certain foods which might benefit an
“I take a very poor view of this, corporal!"
equally healthy neighbor; but what if a
person who inferred that his associational
dislike of spinach was something wrong
with the spinach if he found himself on
a desert island where the only crop was
spinach? And how would the Rev. Dr.
Button get on if he were locked in the
Carlton Brewery without water?
* * * *
“Hackshaw”; The latest wonder from
U.S.A. is a huge mechanical “brain,”
costing 130,000 dollars, which solves in a
few minutes complex mathematical prob-
lems and can even evaluate differential
equations. But if any schoolboy thinks
the machine will make arithmetic super-
fluous he is doomed to disappointment.
The gadget was made possible by the
fact that so many distinguished mathe-
maticians have left Europe that the
U.S.A. has become the principal home
of the science, just as England became
the centre for weaving after the Hugue-
not persecutions.
* * * *
“Peng-Shui” discourses on marriage
customs:
I see that war-time Egypt is being split
asunder by a controversy on the matrimonial
question. The vocal section wants a return to
polygamy and asserts that Egyptian home life
is being undermined by woman’s war-time indus-
trialisation. I have lived in both polygamous and
monogamous countries, and everywhere have
found that the same old problem of the con-
flict between beliefs and feelings presents itself.
When a young Malay blood pinches his elderly
Sultan’s favorite wife he feels he has in-
fringed the husband’s rights just as much as
any Western lover, and the husband feels just
as righteously indignant as any Western husband
who goes to the divorce court. Probably the
earliest system of matrimony was that which
gave the mightiest fighter exclusive possession
of all the females of a tribe. In later days
the intellect, instead* of the club, became the
weapon, but still a wife or husband might ex-
perience a conflict between duty and affection.
Shakspeare was a victim of this conflict, as re-
corded in the sonnets,
« * *■ ♦
“Bumpkin”: I’ll bet the report pro-
duced by the latest official survey of Aus-
tralian agricultural problems in war-time
won’t be half as pithy as this summing-
up in a Melbourne daily:
My two daughters, self and son ran a
dairy for 13 years. About 18 months ago
he was called into the Army. We had
never made more than £lO a week between
us, working seven days a week in mud
ankle-deep, but we were contented and felt
chained to it. Realising the increased
struggle without a man, f sold the place.
A month later my son was discharged.
We moved to Melbourne, where he now
receives £ll a week at munitions. My
eldest daughter (a conductress) received
£7 11s. last week. The youngest is in the
W.A.A.A.F. Now half our family earn
almost twice as much as on the farm, with
no worry or capital involved, and with all
city comforts. Farmers are desperately
offering full money (355. a week) for un-
skilled hands, so what’s holding city people
back from sharing the hardships, if they
are so concerned about food rationing?
The other evening in a rural pub
near Melbourne 1 estimated the average
weekly wage from munitions and other
defence jobs drawn by ex-farmhands
assembled at the bar at £B. Before the
war thirty bob a week would have been
about their portion,
* * * *
“Bottle and Glass” recalls some Pacific
explorations-
* ..... ...
W ' C * Wentworth isn’t generally associated
wkb tlie South Sea islands, but he had some
adventures in the Pacific, and came near to
losing his life there. The Blue Mountains ex-
pedition of 1813 with Blaxland and Lawson
left him with lung trouble, so he went voyaging
in the islands for his health in the schooner
Cumberland. The expedition nearly ended in
disaster at Raratonga in the Cook group.
Having landed there, Wentworth and his party
were unexpectedly attacked by the natives, who
treacherously clubbed one of the schooner's
crew. Wentworth drew a pistol, but it missed
fire, so he charged the hostile islanders single-
handed. Getting hold of the seaman’s cut-
lass, he held off the natives while he slowly fell
back to the beach, where the boat’s crew came
to his assistance. It was much like the affair
which cost Captain Cook his life, with the
difference that it was a subordinate who was
killed and not the leader. Another landing
party lost two seamen and a couple of
Tahitians in another part of the island.
* * * *
“Niloc”: Pride of overseas telephone
companies is the recently-invented “auto-
matic answerer.” Designed to save Wear
and tear on the nerves of those who may
be in the bath or mending the roof when
the bell rings, the device will probably have
record sales. The principle is that after
the ’phone-bell has rung sufficient times
to indicate that nobody is interested the
receiver hook automatically lifts, releas-
ing a metal reel which begins to slowly
unwind, thus recording the message from
the other end. The message over, the
other party hangs up, causing the reel
to stop. Then, when the bath or roof
expedition is officially over, the house-
holder lifts the receiver and hears the
worst.
**’ * *
“Curtain Raiser” on horrors at the
cinema:
There are plenty of shocks in “Moscow
Strikes Back,” now showing without cuts at
the Savoy, Melbourne. The spectacles of rows
of civilians strung up by the neck by the Nazi
invader, of the dead bodies of women and
children, were horrible enough, but the appeal
of the film was more to the intellect than the
feelings, and it seemed to me the audience
did not feel the horror of it as much as an
audience at another theatre did at a peace-time
newsreel in which the ’plane in which an aviator
was to fly the Atlantic was shown burning
on a New York aerodrome. When the audience
began to be aware that a figure in the flames
was actually the aviator himself it became hys-
terically upset and one woman fainted. Rescuers
were struggling to get to the doomed man, and
the audience could identify itself with the situa-
tion just as if it were happening before it.
Everything in the Russian film was doubtless
true, but it had the disadvantage of being
conscious propaganda, and propaganda appeals
to the head, not to the heart. A shock of a
different order came in the Russian film when
it showed the looted homes where Chekhov
wrote his stories, Tschaikowsky his music and
Tolstoy his novels. An old custodian is shown
picking sheets of the composer’s music out
of the snow, and here the emotions are appealed
to But the intellect intrudes with the thought
that some of the leading executants of Tschai-
kowsky’s day refused to play his music be-
cause they thought it was beneath them, some
of Chekhov’s finest plays were booed off the
stage in Moscow and Tolstoy’s novels were
mutilated by the Czar’s censors as stupidly
as the Nazis mutilated his study.


ABORIGINALITIES
“Old-timer”; A traveller in slop-made
suits pulled in at the station and stayed
the night. He went to work on the mob
after tea, but the only bite he got was
from young Dan, who fell for a grey
suit and coughed up a fiver. Dan had
been cavorting round a young lady who
lived about 20 miles south, and next
morning he inserted himself into that suit,
climbed on his bike and headed off in her
direction. During the week the river had
risen, and when Dan got to the nine-mile
creek it was full. It wasn’t very wide,
so Dan lifted the bike and heaved it
across, then leapt after it. But he mis-
judged the distance or something and
landed in five feet of water. He took the
suit off and spread it to dry in the sun,
and about an hour later made to put it
on and resume the journey. It wasn’t
long after that when we saw a figure clad
in half-mast pants and an elbow-length-
sleeve coat pedalling furiously towards
the hut. Within fifty yards it slowed,
yelled “Where’s that blasted suit-seller?”
and, on being informed that he’d left for
the town, went racing down the road.
He got there, and after the ensuing riot
the damaged traveller called in the law.
But the mounted trooper was a bushman
himself, and when that traveller left he
had Dan’s suit and Dan had another and
£3 10s. in change from his original fiver.
* * * *
“Sheepo”: “The O.D.’s” way of en-
ticing a mob of sheep to cross
a creek by carrying, three or four
across to the other side (B. 14/4/’43)
might work with pets, but with
a big mob of stubborn sheep it’s a
washout. I’ve tied half a dozen sheep
up on the other side and have helped to
throw a dozen or two into the water as a
sort of stepping-stone for the others, but
we’ve succeeded only in knocking up
both ourselves and the dogs. The most
successful dodge I ever worked was to
put up a rough brush race with a bit of
a wing. Then we cut off a small mob
and forced the jumbucks right to the
water’s edge, then got out of the way
quick and lively and had the rest of
the mob brought up. The rest was easy ;
if a bit of prodding wouldn’t entice the
leading sheep in the race to take to the
water a push would. It worked with a
lot of 8000-odd.
* * ♦ *
“Wang”; Dad and the hand were hav-
ing a great set-to with the wall-eyed colt,
getting him used to the spring-dray. The
hand was standing in the dray holding
the reins and Dad directing operations
from below when the animal backed sud-
denly toward a shed, the hand uncon-
sciously helping by hanging on to the
reins. With a crash the dray stove in
the side of the shed, the colt jumped
madly forward, the hand catapulted on
his back and the animal shot across the
yard and banged head-first against the
stockyard corner-post. The hand, fright-
ened but still game, scrambled back into
"Nice comfy little place you've got here. Ivy."
the dray and Dave leaned against the rails
guffawing, while behind him Jimmy
Lynch, the neighbor, cried delightedly
“Greybox’s circus is now showin’.” Dad
was beside himself with rage. “Don’t
take no notice of them,” he gritted at
the hand. “Grab them reins hard, an’
we’ll show the cows somethin’.” “No,
we won’t,” came the unexpected answer
from the hand in a determined voice ; “I
don’t mind milkin’ ’em, but I’m damned
if I’m goin’ to entertain the blanks,” and
he leapt from the dray and moved off.
The next instant the colt, as docile as a
pet lamb, began to follow him. Dad
gazed in astonishment for a second or
two, and then burst into laughter. “Spare
me days,” he cried, “the horse is objectin’
as well,”
s|e # * *
“90 Mile”: So “Narrin” has never had
a bruised shoqlder from a kicking gun
(B. 21 /4/’43), and alleges that anybody
who has must necessarily be a bad marks-
man. Then he mumbles something about
shooting at Bisley. Bisley! I thought we
were talking about these crow-eating
wizards who shoot moving snakes from
moving boats on moving streams with
magical .22’s. I’ll believe “N.” never had
a bruised shoulder, but I’ll bet him a
tin of shrimps to a pelican-skin rug his
blowing has given him a chronically
bruised tongue.
* * * *
“Bohemian”: Maoriland naturalists
are agog over the announcement that a
party of campers in Central Otago saw
that rarest of the Dominion’s birds the
wingless takake. The Maoris record that
this brilliantly-colored bird was the most
elusive they had encountered. Seventy
years ago it was officially pronounced
extinct. In 1903 interest in it was
revived by the capture of one on the
shores of Lake Te Anau; but the bird
died of its injuries and was stuffed and
sent to the Otago Museum. There are
only three other specimens in existence.
One is in the Wellington Museum, the
others in the British Museum, Christie
(London) years ago offered a vast sum
for any specimen, dead or alive. The
Maoris called it the “Mohoao” or “Mo-
howhao,” meaning the “lonely forest
bird” —it has never been seen with a mate.
Naturalists are of the opinion that the
takake is a one-egg bird ; if it is, it may
follow the habit of a South American
flightless bird which lays one egg. When
the young bird arrives at the fledgling
stage the parent birds destroy shell and
nest,
♦ * * *
“Aragun”: “Old Priller” should know
that trees on western N.S.W. sheep prop-
erties are purposely trimmed off to a
height that forces sheep to rear on their
hind legs to reach the foliage (B.
14/4/’43). The idea is to develop the
hindquarters, as practically every jum-
buck, after his wool-producing days are
over, reaches the abattoirs; if “Old P.”
looks in the butcher’s window he will
see that legs of mutton bring twice the
price of shoulders. The ultimate aim of
the squatting arboreal experts is a woolly
built on the lines of a kangaroo.
“Harold T.”: Jumbucks will keep
going through a drought on leaves of
the eucalypt right enough, but as a new-
chum 1 learned that it’s a different propo-
sition feeding the stuff to ewes heavy in
lamb. My first job was lopping box for
a paddock of wethers. Nothing was said
about the lambmg ewes in the next pad-
dock and I reckoned they, looked hungry
too. I got into the way of slipping
through the fence and lopping a few
trees on their side. Within a week 57
ewes died. The boss used them to teach
me to skin; he skinned one “to show
you.” 1 did the other 56.
* * * *
“Wester”: Most country magistrates
are fairly sympathetic (B. 21/4/’43), Back
in the dole days I had a job in the court
when a youth was charged with false pre-
tences. He had got together, by various
odd jobs along the track, about Bs. 6d.
in cash and had then applied for a dole
order. He had been saving up to buy a
pair of boots, and he didn’t know “you
didn’t have to have no money when y’
got the dole.” His feet were encased
in the remnants of a pair of sneakers and
he had no socks. “You can’t tramp with-
out boots,” he said and awaited his fate.
The Beak recorded a conviction —he had
to under the law —and ordered the youth
to make restitution of the amount of the
dole order, ss. Bd., from his Bs. 6d, Then
he called him up to the Bench, warned
him not to do it again and, handing a
policeman a quid, ordered him to take
the lad and buy him a pair of boots.
* * * *
“Arev”: Bill Jupp was returning from
the township on foot. As he came to
the turn in the road he heard a car,
its engine running, outside his orchard.
Bill dodged in to the saplings that
bordered the road and found, as he ex-
pected, that the young men from the car
were helping themselves to the quinces.
Bill quietly loosened the valves on the
car’s tyres and waited until the thieves
approached the fence. “I suppose you’ve
arranged to pay for those quinces?” he
asked them. The biggest youth
answered. “Who’re you?” ‘Tm only
the owner of the quinces,” said Bill. “I
guess five bob will about square the bill.”
The trio looked at him. “Garn,” said
the big fellow, “who says we’re going
to pay?” Bill whistled, and a big
bristling Airedale came running out of
the scrub, “//e does,” Bill said. “1
suppose none of you want the seat torn
out of your pants.” The big fellow turned
to his mates. “Run for it, boys,” he
shouted. The three scrambled through
the fence with their booty and got to
the car before the dog could reach them.
The driver started up; the car went a
few yards, then stopped. Bill sauntered
over. “You won’t get far on those
tyres,” he said. “And prices have gone
up in the last few minutes. Those
quinces’ll cost you ten bob now. When
you pay up. I’ll take away the dog and
let you out to fix the tyres.” The young
men glared for a few seconds, then
turned out their pockets. Bill threw the
ten shillings on the table when he got
home. “Sandy’s more than earned his
license,” he said. “Those fellows never
knew his teeth were gone.” “What fel-
lows?” asked Mrs. Jupp. Bill grinned.
“The smart alecks who stole those quinces
we couldn’t sell,” he said.
* * * *
“Louden”: The day was blazing hot,
Newchum, clearing leaves out of the
homestead roof guttering, found a dozen
hen eggs in a lillipilli branch that rested
on the verandah roof. Eggs were scarce,
and Choom, delighted, placed them in
his hat and made for the kitchen. On
the way he met the boss. The trump
took one look at the collection, said
they were bad and told him to bury them
somewhere. Going about a hun-
dred yards upwind Choom put them
in a grass tussock in the sun and went
back to his job. A bit later a notorious
egg-lifting crow arrived to inspect the
hen-fruit, standing over and turning
them with its beak. Suddenly one of
the eggs exploded with a “pop,” spatter-
ing Kelly with its vile contents. It was
followed almost immediately by another,
and the most disgusting and disgusted
crow in eastern Riverina took wing,
voicing its protest. We haven’t noticed
that crow about since.
* * • *
“Wirewhiskers”: Recently I borrowed
a razor that dated back nearly to Water-
loo. Regimental issue, it once belonged
to a soldier of the 63rd Foot, W.A.’s first
garrison guard. The edge lifted the
bristles as though they were down. But
steel was steel in those days. The best
Swedish iron was carbonised by the old
Sheffield process —alternate layers of flat
iron and powdered charcoal packed in
a sealed crucible and fired in a kiln at
a red heat for up to 14 days. The pure
iron thus absorbed the pure carbon.
It was then melted in a crucible
and cast into an ingot, forged into
thin strips under a trip hammer and
handed to the smith, who beat out
each individual blade on his anvil.
The grain of the already superior
steel was thus hammered tight,
especially towards the edge. That
was given by cold grinding on a
wet grindstone.
“Zake”: “The 0.D.,” that case-hardened
unbeliever, demands particulars of color,
size and poundage of the grass-warbler.
If we must go into details,here they are:
In size it is slightly between a godwit and
a wedge-tailed eagle ; if looked at through
dark green glasses the bird appears of
that verdant shade of a very old bowler
hat; its weight wouldn’t visibly affect a
weighbridge; when it sings, which it
invariably does on the wing to save severe
vibration in the toes, it is compelled to
open its mouth ; it laughs in a strong,
resonant bellow and lands with the wind
for the sheer love of a thrill. If “The
0.D.” wants any more particulars we
could make a party of two, if he cares
to study the bird in its haunts.
* * * *
“Betcha”: “Blime! A bloke that’s
never heard of a checkle-faced cow! Why,
there’s one” —the old drover pointed his
whip at a yellow bally with a mottled
face —“an’ there’s another an’ another.
He flicked the spotted nose of a Short-
horn cross and then a dark Hereford with
broken color under the eyes. “Yes, 1
know that,” I told him. “But what could
you call ’em?” He scratched his head.
“Hell, there ain’t nothing you could call
’em. If a bally’s got a few surplus patches
of red on its face, why it’s a checkle,
that’s all.”
* * * *
“B. 4”: Before we placed our set-net,
leaded and corked, across a creek (B.
31/3/ ’43) we first tested the place for
snags. The net had a double line with
corks at intervals and was kept apart b>
spreaders. Before the chap who fastened
the net to the opposite bank swam back
he fixed a hobble ring through which was
threaded a strong line. We could thus
haul in to remove gilled fish and then
haul the net across again. Many fish
which nose-dived were gilled in the flat
net or taken by hand as they flappe
about and failed to buck clear before we
swam to them. After a few escaped, the
fish, by that mysterious communion or
ideas common to mullet, became £W£
of the trap, hence the flashing leaps over
both nets. I once took part m a round-
up as described by ‘ Sou -west,
the net and at my section a ten-foot sea
snake coursed up and down and It
of the show had his hand savaged
yard of shark. I’ll take my chan«
dynamite and dicks and leave Sou -west
to the sea-serpents and lawyers.
COLD COLLATION.
The cold collation sits and waits
Upon the placid dinner plates.
Mutton ! Of course. What else could I expect
For one-and-three? And ugh! I hate cold
mutton.
1 loathe the cuts that come
From some lean sheep’s sad buttock.
Dry and brown they lie.
With hesitant fork I turn them one by one.
And as I do —
The Goondi plain is green in spring.
The sheep come slowly sauntering
Heads down, a nibble here and there.
Behind them all, the grey old mare
Plods onward; in the covered dray
The drover sits and dreams. Away
Across New South his fancies fly
To home or Tatt.’s expectantly.
While underneath, in grass that’s sweet.
The two dogs cool their tired feet.
Slowly I munch ... but it is not mutton
I’m chewing now, but memory.
Fervor of hot, unwinking suns,
Changeless days on unending plains,
Woodfire smoke and the sweet clean night
And restless animals whose mutterings
Are part of sleep.
That was a time at Sammy’s pub
When we stopped for a drink and a change of
grub,
And we met old Sweeny from Nullambri
And he told us the Fainter track was dry.
“Not half as dry as myself,” I said.
But Lord I next day—what a head! what a
head I
.And the squatter threatening merry hell
For his fence was down ... ah well, ah well I
It wasn’t a picnic, that stretch anead ;
We could face it, though, for the sheep were fed.
The squatter could rage, but the deed was done
And dashed little harm to his blanky ruh.
And I got away . ..
“A return?” coos a voice. I wake and stare
At the comely lass who stands ana waits.
“No, no!” I say ; and, within, I add
“No return for me to my long-lost muttons."
1 sip my tea.
What like is the feed on the track today?
Do they still watch out for a breakaway
As they near the creek by the Emu well
At the end of that long, dry, dusty spell?
There’s a patch of shade on the other side
Where the finches gather from far and wide
For a final drink as the sun’s last rays
Light up the gums till they’re all ablaze.
Then comes the bellbird’s final chime,
Galahs protest for the thousandth time,
The bronzewing hammers his hollow drum
And stealthily, after the dusk has come,
Slips down, all alert, like a hunted thing.
Drinks deep, and is off on silent wing.
The whole woild’s left to the stars and me —
Me and the fire ; and liberty.
I finish my tea; I light my pipe;
I pay my shot of one-and-three.
And I pass from the dream to the crowded
street.
The raucous trams run roaring past,
“Come in! Come!” the spruikers cry
To movies where the clamant world
Shrieks, batters, smashes —noise on noise.
Oh, the Goondi plain and the opal sky —
I have come to the city, the more fool I.
VICTORIA.
R. H. CROLL.


“Click”; Australians are notoriously
ignorant of their own country. Most of
us are unaware, for instance, that man-
eating savages who inhabit the wilds are
ruled by the “White Queen of the Can-
nibals.” When they are “screaming and
"Well, we finally got married, boss — yesterday!
shouting, naked and painted, hungry for
man-meat,” their White Queen calmly
seizes their spears and sends them away
gloriously happy after a feed of magical
tinned food. Mrs. Daisy Bates is the
White Queen; she has been “living in
an historic ten-feet-by-eight tent for 40
years among the most savage and primi-
tive people on earth.” But she has tamed
them so well that now, once a month,
she “calls her people together and tells
them the war news, translating the world
situation into 188 dialects.” You still
don’t believe it? It’s vouched for by
one Peter Davis, a Fleet-street bushman
who tells England of the peculiarities of
our boongs in the periodical “Answers.”
Pity that the work of a gracious and
heroic little Englishwoman should be so
caricatured for English consumption.
♦ * * *
“Duddo B.”: I see where efforts are
being made to get machine tools, timber
and man-power for the making of axe-
handles from Australian spotted gum.
They’re needed to replace “the 80,000
to 100,000 dozen hickory handles” which
used to be brought from America each
year. Spotted gum is tough timber, but
it lacks the resilience needed in a good
axe-handle. Personally, I’d like to see
bull mallee given a trial. Tve used it
for swingletrees, for handles for slashers
and long shovels and for shafts. It takes
a lot to snap it and it’s resilient enough
to stand up to the strain of a four-horse
team or a scrub slasher wielded by a
bloke working on contract.
* * * *
“Spreljay”: Disturbed a colony of
N.Q. sugar-ants on some wooden frame-
work. They were busy stacking eggs
which ranged in size from pin-
spots to an off-white cocoon about
three-eighths of an inch long. Imme-
diately, with military precision, each ant
took an egg, and in a few minutes they
had cleared the central dump and estab-
lished four separate stacks in corners of
the framework. While the movement to'
new positions was in progress I prised
a fairly large egg from the jaws of a
small ant. The cocoon, opened, revealed
a big ant, nearly fully formed, a pale
amber in color. The head and pincer-
jaws were tucked down on the “chest,”
with the legs folded neatly in front of
the body. Up rushed the ant from which
I had taken the egg, inspected the body,
then struggled bade more than three feet
to the rest of the tribe with the stillborn
child. Three others of the colony imme-
diately came to her aid, and if they
weren’t attempting resuscitation for the
next five minutes I’ve never seen a squad
at work. They levered the head into
normal position, straightened out the
legs, and thoroughly cleaned the body.
Then solemnly, like pallbearers, they
took the body away and deposited it in
a crevice in the wood.
Us * * *
“Zend Avesta”: There used to be a
bakery in Esk (Q.) —it may still be there
—where the horse-paddock at the back
was entirely fenced in on the instalment
plan by “swaggie” labor. Bagmen on
the nip were offered a loaf of bread if
they sank a posthole; others earned a
loaf by ramming a post home, and others
for putting in a rail. The job was eventu-
ally finished, but it was the most drunken-
looking fence in the Commonwealth.
* * * *
“B. A. Ker”: Old Tom was the cham-
pion draughts-player of the gang. Big
Bill was the only
opponent worthy
of his steel, and
he could only
rarely take one
game in three.
One day the big
fellow suddenly
stopped working,
snapped his fingers
and exclaimed
“That’sit!” Then,
with quiet confi-
dence, “I’ll beat
Old Tom tonight.”
The word spread
and the whole
gang was there to
see the match.
But Bill’s play
was shocking.
When everybody
was trying to tell
him that he
should move the
man in the corner
he moved the
king; when he
should have
moved the king
he gave away the
man. Yet he won!
The next game
he again did all
the wrong things,
and again won,
and so it was
with the third
and last. Then, while we stood amazed,
Bill grinned and removed a couple
wads of cotton wool from his ears. “It
came to me in a flash, ’ he said. “Old
Tom, being deaf, wasn’t plagued with the
back-seat drivers!”
JJc #
“Esk D.”: The sapling appeared quite
solid until it fell and a knothole leading
to a small hollow was revealed. The
tenant came tumbling out—a flying
squirrel, silver-grey with white under-
neath and along the folds of skin that
serve as wings. Hardly any bigger than
a mouse, it made surprising speed along
the ground with queer fluttering bounds.
Finally I caught it, and it snuggled into
my hand without any fuss. Later, on the
back verandah, it showed amazing agility,
galloping possum-like along the timbers
and making prodigious leaps from rail
to rail.
* * * *
“Horseless Horseman”: There’s no
doubt about a bowl carrying further than
a cooee (B. 7/4/’43). Up Mt. Feather-
top and the Cargo High Plains way (Vic.),
where it’s so steep cattlemen muster
mostly by calling stock for salt, they use
only a shrill “aw-aw.” I’ve seen cattle
a mile away and 3000 ft. down answer
the call. But for high-pitched howls for
carrying I’ll back the “Haunted Lady,
that nocturnal ten-women-at-once-being
throttled scream that I heard for several
years in the 90-mile bend of the Murray,
near Euston (N.S.W.). They say it is
made by night hawks fighting, and I’ve
known it to carry six miles.
* * * *
“Mat’s Mate”: We had a bit of a
clearing job near Flanagan’s place, and
about the first thing that happened was
a raid on our tent by Flanagan’s dogs.
The second time it happened we went
over to Flanagan’s, and Mat warned him.
A week later Flanagan’s heifer gpt at
our flourbag. Mat went over again.
Two days after that Flanagan’s dogs
drove a big Too into our tent and be-
tween them almost wrecked it. We both
went over, and Mat’s final words were
“If any of your blasted stock bothers
us again I’ll come over an’ clean you up.
That’s straight.” Flanagan eyed Mat’s
14 stone and said nothing until he’d got
into his kipsy, whereupon he hurled
defiance. “All right, Flanagan,” called
Mat. “You let your mongs or cattle inter
our tent again an’ you’ll see.” A week
passed, and one afternoon a willy-willy
came along and we saw bits of Flana-
gan’s kipsy flying about, so we went over
to see if we could give a hand. The place
had folded up on itself. We started to
root in the ruins, and had got a corner
cleared away when Flanagan rode up.
“WhatTe y’ doin’?” he said anxiously,
“We was lookin’ f’r you,” said Mat a bit
sheepishly. “ ’Struth! ” yelped Flanagan,
backing off. “Has them blasted dawgs
been at y’ again?”
* * * *
“Old Camp”: The olden days, the
golden days! As a kid of 16 I landed
in Coolgardie in 1897. Kalgoorlie and
Boulder 1 came to know. Leonora, Koo-
kynie, Menzies and many lesser camps I
visited. Generally speaking life was lived
“with the lid off.” Unlimited gambling,
mostly two-up and poker; unlimited
booze; gold to be found almost
anywhere and everywhere; a general
scarcity of women, leading to barmaid
adoration and a “red-light quarter” fan-
tastic beyond belief. But there was very
little shooting, fisticuffs being the general
method of settling disputes; the com-
batants were often pupils of the best
professional boxers in Australia. As
gold production passed from aUuvial-
scratching to companies employing hun-
dreds of men, race meetings became car-
nivals, and booze attained to super-pro-
portions ; where had been a desert only a
decade before hotels like palaces reared
two and even three storeys. A great and ,
wonderful lite-bu. very little shooting,
* , „ * * . r
Solitude : Was soiling a mob of
ewes and lambs for dosing, and gave
Seventyfiver a job on the drafting gate,
with instructions to count the lambs as
they went through. The old bloke started
well enough, but as the number of sepa-
rated lambs grew so did the noise of
bleating. Seventyfiver’s voice rose with
the din. “Three-ninety-eight, three-
ninety-NiNE, four-hundred ” he bel-
lowed; and still the inferno of sound
increased. By the time we were through
the old bloke was hoarse as a crow, and
with a grunt of relief he fastened the
gate against the last jumbuck, “Another
couple o’ hundred,” he croaked brokenly,
”an’ them brutes would’ve had me beat.”
“Yes,” I agreed, “but anyway, you needn’t
have yelled so loud.” “I needn’t, eh!
An’ damn it, how else wus a man gonna
hear what he wus up t’ then? Tell me
that!”
* * * *
“Apiarist”: Maybe “G.A.8.” (B.
20/1/’43) is right about swarming bees
going fast and straight to the new home
once it is selected, but it doesn’t accord
with my observations. Recently I
gathered a fine swarm from off a flower-
ing gum that had no semblance of a
hollow in it. And that swarm had come
from miles away, for, although it was
well known that I had collected it, no
beekeeper anywhere around had missed
it. So it looked to me as though that
swarm, as a body, was scouting for a
new home, and, tiring, had to land on a
perfectly hopeless tree for a Test, Again,
I’ve taken a swarm that had settled on
"....And she called me a lousy landlubber!"
a post-and-rail fence, evidently another
case where the scouts had failed to act
up to expectations. As for “G.A.B.’s”
friend thinking him silly to be blazing
with a shotgun at the apparently empty
sky —gosh! When my bees swarm no
one within a hundred yards or so is
likely to have the illusion of “an appar-
ently empty sky.” They make as much
noise as a Catalina.
Knew a boundary-rider who
woodened his ’roo with a waddy after
a smart galjop subsequent to the
’roo’s having a bellyful of water. Occa-
sionally he missed his swipe in the dark,
and as his prad swerved the ground rose
and hit his conk instead. The resultant
matting of blood and fiery beard nearly
scared the lights out of the bush pilot
who struck him one morning after a
night spent murdering ’roos. Finally, the
manager presented him with a rifle in
order to save horseflesh and man-power.
But the sequel winded the manager, as
the ’roo-banger grabbed his time, vowing
that he wouldn’t work for a boss who
blocked his having a bit of fun in his
own way. f
* , . ■ .. . ct
Vvalkabout : A cool ht JL
asset ir > dealing with -caL. _ '
pushing a mob of 1500 bullocks along
m south-western Queensland w order to
cross a Hooded channel ,
The bullocks started to sulk, an Y
time tJ \ e lea f ha f. beea th hac j
cracked into thew T r y _
become mulishly stubborn.
we SP 1 Ti** 6 floating w caused
looked right until a flo ng g
the lead to swing do wnstream, mfilmg
around a half-caste who had been nd-
in § on . hi p heac j
lead. The boy c.x n t .
Leavin 8 hls watch
mob. We could do n ° l n g ’
and eventually he
so outside the ring of sw i 8 ■
& rdhthS
for when later we managed to get it to
tbe bank t jie poor brute was so badly in-
;ured we had to give it a bullet.
* * * *
“Naturala”: The reason that a horse
can ’ t buck while his tail is stretched
straight out behind him, while a bull or
bullock never arches his back without his
rudder held firmly aloft, lies in the muscu-
iar structure of the two types of quad
ruped, developed out of the different
ways p f rising. The bovine fights with
bis head down, his hindquarters held
st iff; the horse fights with head up, hind-
quarters loosely pivoting the thrusting
bead and the thrashing forefeet. In.
to dislodge a rider the dis-
tressed, perhaps angry, animal uses the
same muscles. The bull’s head goes down,
w bile with a series of plunges, accom-
panje(j by swift side shakes, he tries to
throw his burden. That his tail is ele-
vated—well, the bovine tail is always
held aloft in battle, the tail informing
spectator cows that the battle is on. The
defeated bull drops his tail and flees,
xhe horse in bucking arches his spine in
the shape of a bow, the tail being a con-
tinuation of the spine and necessarily
conforming to the bend,
* * * *
“Loc”: Despite a bend from a tall
between the body and wheel of his dray,
Harry’s pea-rifle still gave forth. We
found him in his yard, trying to discover
just how far he’d have to allow for the
bump. Aiming at a gum about 10 yards
away, he let fly, and then shuddered at
the squawking uproar which came from
the fowlyard. His next shot was aimed m
the opposite direction from the chooks.
Again pandemonium broke loose. Harry
looked in a puzzled way at the rifle. He
was just taking a bead on the rusty old
tank down by the dam, but beiore he
could squeeze the trigger a terrific burst
of squawking came from the fowlhouse.
It was then that Harry investigated ano
found the 10ft, carpet-snake lashing into
the setting of eggs.
BANANA LAND.
These stony hills that lean above the sea
“Make good banana land.” The sea wind whines,
And on the long tensed wires the passion vines
Laden with purple globes swing heavily.
Broad leaves on chunky stems, bananas grow
Like tattered parasols in row and row.
Bananas rotting by the packing shed
Send out a wine-sweet smell; the long festoons
Of green bananas hang. Small scarlet moons
Are ripe tomatoes, smooth and round and red;
Gold pawpaws sway like bunches of balloons.
Up on the timbered hill a heifer stands
On slim feet fussily.
The ribbed banana leaves, broad, wind-ripped,
wide,
Give fitful shade. And slinky tree-snakes slide
Along the lithe green tree-boughs sleepily.
Bush spiders, queerly striped in grotesque bands,
Sprawl on their sticky webs above the rows
Where, stroke by stroke, the sunburnt chipper
goes,
Wielding his chipping-hoe in hard brown hands.
These fertile hills “make good banana lands.”
N.S.W.
JOAN McEWEN.


o
AUSTRALIAN - MAD E
RADIOTRON
RADIO valves
AUSTRALIAN GENERAL ELECTRIC I’KOPKUSXAKi, LTD.
93 Clarence Street, Sydney.
AMALGAMATED WIRELESS (A/SiA), LTD.,
72 Clarence Street, Sydney.
Advertisement of Amalgamated Wireless Valve Co. Pty.» Ltd.
y&ubiwfa&i
FOR DOMEsV/c V li VW
Morp c«r» C RADIO
more for D£fenc£
comervey P 0 ™ 9 J7 ,mes
fflM. an „ your Waives but,.
WSmon ‘'AtilOTßn*
Australian, Mercantile, Land & Finance
Company, Limited
(INCORPORATED IN ENGLAND IN 1863) _ __
WOOL, FAT STOCK, STORE AND STUD STOCK,
PRODUCE AND PROPERTY SALESMEN
General Manager for Australia: R. SINCLAIR SMITH.
ADVANCES MADE ON GRAZING PROPERTIES, °H ST ?£ K vfc
CONSIGNMENTS OF WOOL. SKINS. HIDES, TALLOW, ETC
LICENSED AUCTIONEERS, STOCK AND STATION AGENTS.
SYDNEY OFFICE: A. M. MURDOCH, Manager. MORES,
at on at MFT TIOTIRNE BRISBANE, NEWCASTLE, WAGGA,
iISO AT ‘^SvILLKCmRLEVWLE »» “g, L “s„' «. LTD.
GENERAL AGENTS IN NEW SOUTH WALES FOR NORTHERi
THE MAN ON THE LAND
Make Classing Easy.
"DON'T WORRY, I'M SENDING IT TO
GRAZCOS."
“R Ney” * It can be done by muster-
ing the sheep before shearing and draft-
25 them into lots. Keep the ewes to-
gether in their age groups and do the
fame with wethers, and make separate
mobs of stragglers-broken-woolled
Seen bad doers, etc.—weaners and so
forth.’ The wool comes to the tables part
sorted already then.
Rams of course, are shorn separately,
flnd hogget wool should be kept apart
from”that of older sheep Get-up of
skirtings is affected by shearing every-
thing together. The classer can keep his
lines straight, but piece-pickers haven t
the knowledge and chuck everything that
comes into the bin, with the result that
the pieces open up like a jumble sale.
Having drafted off the flock, shear them
in the order of the best first—pure
merinos, pressing all their wool before
going on with comebacks, then cross-
breds and the coarse crossbreds and long-
wool rams last. With merinos it’s best
to shear rams first, then wethers, then
hoggets and the ewes last, except when
in lamb; then they should go through
first. If the ewes have lambed, keep
them as long as you can, as the ability
of the lambs to get about is a big help
in getting them through the shed.
Crossbreds and merinos are classed on
different principles and should be kept
separate down to the locks. Mixed wools
are always valued on the lowest type
showing in them, and further deductions
are made for the cost of reclassing for
sale. A mixed lot of locks, for instance,
might make 3d. per pound, though merino
locks are worth 6d. by themselves and
crossbreds 2d. By drafting the sheep
beforehand the grower may save 2d. a
pound on his locks alone.
There’s no chance of tricking a buyer
by popping in a crook fleece now and
again. Discovery of that one fleece would
make the whole lot suspect and the price
would drop just to be on the safe side.
It’s the same with topping. Woolbuyers
are suspicious coves, and when they strike
a doubtful clip they are more likely to
devalue it rather than go to the trouble
of making a classification. Once a
grower becomes known as an honest
classer his wool is accepted without much
doubt on its face value.
Beef-bull Prices.
‘ Beefo”; At the sale following the
beef show in Sydney (B. 21/4/’43) there
were further high prices for Herefords —
1075gns. for a Hobartville bull and
several sales at from 600gns. to 800gns.
Only about half a dozen lots were passed
in.
Values for Devons, Aberdeen-Angus
and Red Polls couldn’t be compared with
Hereford prices. Two Devons bred at
Havilah sold for 250gns. and 200gns.
each, whilst for Aberdeen-Angus top
price was 160gns. There were higher
prices bid for other A.-A, bulls, but
owners’ reserves weren’t reached.
Shorthorns were wanted, prices being
up to 40 p.c. higher than last year. Vic-
torian and Queensland breeders were
keen bidders and took the bulk of the
top sires sold. From Coonong seven
bulls made an average of £328, Coonong
Matchmaker topping the sales at 650gns.
Coombing Park got 450gns. for a young
“How does this sound? ‘George got called up today; Well as can be
expected , Lily.' ”
bull, and a heifer from the same stud
realised 225gns.
There was spirited bidding for Polled
Shorthorns, top price being 440gns. for
a bull from Antrim, which averaged £237
for a draft of five. What is probably an
Australasian record was made when
850gns. was paid privately for the 14-
months-old Netherby Tam O’Shanter,
bred by Jim Scrymgeour, of Netherby,
Warwick (Q.). This winner of both the
junior and senior championships went
to South Australia.
Breeders must have been agreeably
surprised at the spirited bidding and the
values. With imports of sires cut off
Australian breeders are reaping the bene-
fit of good work. It’s to be hoped that
the quality is maintained and breeding
not allowed to slip, A “scrub” bull can
never sire beef fit for export, though a
number of cattlemen still seem to think
it will.
Cotton Irrigation.
“Jethro Tull”: Until the fundamentals
of irrigation practice (B. 17 /3 / ’43) are
thoroughly understood there will be little
real headway. All soils have a limited
capacity for irrigation, and unfortunately,
with many of our irrigated lands, that
capacity is extremely low.
Before applying water to a soil under-
stand the significance of the “wilting
point”—that point at which the plants
have taken all the available water from
the soil and show signs of permanent
wilting from which they recover only
after the application of further water.
The “wilting point” of any particular
soil is the same for all plants, though it
varies for different soils. Plants will not
die immediately the soil reaches “wilting
point,” but should the condition be pro-
longed it will soon affect the plants’
later response to irrigation.
Only field trial can determine when to
withhold water, and for how long, in
order to check excessive growth and in-
duce earlier flowering and seed forma-
tion. Ideal moisture conditions lie any-
where between “field capacity” and just
above the “wilting point.” The soil is
at field capacity immediately after the
surplus gravitational water has drained
away. When the amount of moisture is
somewhere between these two points
there is nothing to be. gained by imme-
diate irrigation.
A temporary saturated soil condition
arises during the course of an irrigation,
but, provided soil texture and drainage
are good, the surplus water drains away
and the soil moisture approaches a state
of equilibrium within the course of a few
days. Should this approach be delayed
air is excluded from the pore spaces and
the absorbing roots are unable to func-
tion. Thus there can be apparently
drought-stricken plants in a wet or satu-
rated soil. Irrigation in excess of that
necessary to restore the root zone to field
capacity is either lost as the result of
deep percolation or else builds up on an
impervious substratum, with resultant
waterlogging and all its evils.
Root zones are not deep. The greatest
concentration of absorbing roots will
always be found in the top six inches of
soil, and few plants have any major con-
centration of absorbing roots below the
top two feet of soil. Under most con-
ditions, especially with small crops, irri-
gation beyond the top two feet is exces-
sive. Deeper subsoil irrigation will not
provide a moisture reserve for repletion
of that removed from the upper soil by
the plant, and, while deeper rooting can
be induced to some extent by withholding
moisture from the surface, this practice
has limited application.
The amount of moisture held in a soil
to the depth of the root zone varies with
different soils. An inch of water may
wet six or seven inches of a clay or clay
loam, whereas the same quantity of water
applied to a lighter soil would wet nine
or ten inches, so that while two acre-
inches would bring the root zone in a
lighter loam to field capacity it would
need about three inches for the same re-
sult in a heavier loam. In practice, under
gravitational watering, it is difficult to
apply much less than two acre-inches,
especially on the lighter soils.
The objective is to maintain a supply
of available moisture for the plant with-
in the limits of its root zone. Yet it is
advisable to allow the soil to at least
approach the “wilting point” at times, for
a constantly moist condition permits de-
velopment of disease organisms. In
judging the approach to “wilting point,”
the plants themselves are good indica-
tors, but look at the crop in the early
morning, as a drooped condition of the
leaves in the evening may only be a tem-
porary wilt which will recover during
the night.
Where .water is available at all times
it is only a question of applying it as
required; under a rotational system the
problem is more difficult. It’s necessary
to be able to judge the available moisture
present in the soil and estimate just how
much needs to be applied to restore the
root zone to field capacity. This can
only be done by constant examination of
the soil itself, and for that a one-inch
soil auger, three feet long, is the handiest
asset.
Remember, top, to make the furrows
short, but not deep. Have them broad
across the bottom and fairly smooth and
uniform so that flow is not impeded.
And measure your water from the pump.
Know how much you are putting on
and know where you are putting it.
Irrigation is a specialised job which must
be wisely done if the land is not to be
ruined.
Hints for the Farm.
“Sheepo”: With labor at a premium a
lot more work will fall on the dogs. Care
of their feet is essential. In bindi-eye
country get boots if possible, but if not
give the dogs a hand whenever possible
to pull out the bindies. At night, after
they’re chained up, bathe their feet with
warm salt water and dry carefully. As
soon as a dog shows any sign of becom-
ing sore-footed give it a day or two’s
spell.
“Tywire”; Tighten your slack fences
(B. 7/4/’43), but keep an eye on the
calendar. Fencing wires stretched too
tightly in summer snap easily when cold
weather comes. That slight allowance
for contraction of the wire saves much
repair work.
“Plane Creek”: Best cucumber crops
are grown under irrigation or in naturally
damp soils. Good drainage is a protec-
tion against wilt. A fairly rich, loose soil
is best, because it requires little cultivation
while the plants are growing. Cucumbers
form myriads «*of surface roots, ■ and
growth is set back if . these are destroyed
by a great deal of cultivation. Plenty of
light is another essential. Cucumber seed-
lings vary greatly. It’s a good plan to
sow seed heavily, for every seeding pro-
duces a fair number of “weaklings.” Pull
them out and give the strong plenty ot
room. If you must weed out vigorous
seedlings, reset them elsewhere for a suc-
cession crop.
For Sheepowners.
Copies are still available of A Hand-
book of Wool-classing and Shed Manage-
ment, J. J. Hardie’s useful contribution to
sheep husbandry. There is also a chap-
ter on shearing-machine experting. Sup-
plies are limited; order from The
Bulletin —3s. 6d. post free.


uwolt
' ■' : .... ' ■ '(MiSiSfi
: "■ - : ' : :i :. •
;sss
- ...... . - ...
MS
- v-lit
V "
The first 25-Pdr. Gun Howitzer mode in Australia.
Ruwolt’s are Major Co-ordinating Contractors for Victoria,
who, together with many Sub-contractors, are producing
these Guns.
In common with many good Australians we ore now mainly
engaged on munition work.
Although so engaged we are also able to execute much of
the important requirements for the essential metal, paper
and rubber industries, hydraulic presses, crushing plants, etc.
Then, when Australia has successfully overcome its present
difficulties, we will again be in a position to immediately
attend to all your requirements, similarly to what we have
done in the past.
CHARLES RUWOLT PTY. LTD.
530 Victoria Street,. Richmond, E.l
Victoria, AUSTRALIA.
NVOI JSVM
*
a
/o
p) 7* t
*
*•l3
■‘J£j
h
Sa fr.v
**°< Pae -
, 41 "S o
*■ •** '
‘*>l*o.
r 'J
‘PO,
*"*>y ,
f PttOn **>
13 0
*•*l*3
S *tt]
* a **oo * yo
S A>*,
’"■to*
*><S
a M/
UNCABLED ADDITIONS
The R.N. Lends a Hand.
(Condensed from a report by N.Y . “Sun”
Washington correspondent.)
Military observers in Washington have
the answer to something which has been
amazing them ever since General Mont-
gomery’s forces won the battle at El
Alamein—the ability of the British Eighth
Army to keep going in hot pursuit of the
Afrikakorps, driving through the desert
without any letup or relaxation of pres-
sure. The answer turns out to be the
Royal Navy.
The control of the Mediterranean was
perhaps the major decisive factor weigh-
ing the scales between Rommel and
Gen, Montgomery. And it can be said
that the British made magnificent use of
it. The British Eighth Army was fed,
watered and supplied with arms, ammu-
nition and fuel brought to them as they
advanced by naval convoys.
The Navy had the whole logistical
problem worked out before the drive be-
gan. Tugs, minesweepers, tank-landing
craft and supply vessels were loaded at
Alexandria and were given definite
schedules of the ports they were to visit
and the supplies they were to drop off.
When the Eighth Army began to go, the
convoys put to sea and began their voy-
ages. As they came to a harbor aban-
doned by the enemy, the minesweepers
would go in first to make sure that the
supply ships could move shoreward in
safety.
Once this was assured the vessels would
enter the harbors. . Small motor boats
tor patrol work were dropped overboard.
Jugs were on hand for towing or other
activity.
The dust of the retreating Axis mech-
anised forces had hardly settled before
the ships were on hand, bringing ashore
supplies of water and gasoline for the
advanced guard of the Eighth Army.
The British tanks drew up, replenished
and raced on without having to wait for
lorries to catch up with them. And so it
went, all the way along from port to port.
In furtherance of their supply system
Royal Navy officers travelled practically
with the advance guard of the Eighth
Army. At Tripoli, for example, they
were on hand just about the time the
first tanks were clanking through the city
streets. They made their way to the
harbor, followed by two trailers carry-
ing twenty-foot boats, which had been
hauled 1500 miles from Alexandria so
that captured harbors could be explored
at once and plans for their restoration
put into effect as soon as possible. This
had been done at every port along the
Mediterranean between El Alamein and
Tripoli.
Plasma in Papua.
(From an article by the N.Y. “Times” Pacific
war correspondent F. Tillman Durdin.)
During the battle for Buna stacks of
empty yellow tincans grew larger day
by day at the field hospital and advance
first-aid stations in the American sectors.
The cans were containers for blood
plasma that had been drained into the
veins of wounded American soldiers.
Battalion aid stations at Buna were set
up under the screening camouflage of
jungle trees only a few hundred yards
behind the firing line. At these stations
stretchers from the front were lifted upon
a crude framework made of jungle limbs
and surgeons gave the wounded men their
first shots of plasma serum.
Casualties usually reached aid stations
10 to 30 minutes after they were injured.
When brought in the wounded men had
already been bandaged and had received
morphine and sulphanilimide from medi-
cal corps men in the firing line.
If the injury was serious enough to
cause any important degree of shock or
loss of blood, plasma was administered
immediately. For men with gaping
wounds and shattered bones it restored
bulk and balance in the blood stream and
quickly counteracted the effects of shock.
After one or more shots of plasma
men with terrible injuries were able to
survive painful journeys of half a mile
or more by litter over tortuous jungle
paths to portable operating hospitals. At
the hospitals blood plasma often was
again administered.
Plasma in tins will keep indefinitely.
is not affected by temperature and can
be transported as easily as canned beef.
The doctors figure that nearly half the
injured soldiers will need plasma injec-
tions, and most of these will require more
than one dose.
The use of plasma has reduced the
number of battlefront blood transfusions.
Banks of whole blood must be kept at
an even temperature and are not good
when more than 12 days old.
Transfusions from fit men on the spot
are risky because of the prevalence of
malaria. Blood from a malarial person
often causes cerebral malaria, and if in-
jected into a cerebral malaria patient it
nearly always is fatal.
American Army doctors in the South-
west Pacific put blood plasma in the same
category as the sulpha drugs and sodium
pentothal, the new anaesthetic. They say
these three are the most important agen-
cies in the treatment of battle wounds
that science has discovered since the last
war. Because of plasma scores of Ameri-
cans in New Guinea with wounds that
would have been fatal in the last war
are alive today.
Executed in Russia.
Victor Alter and Henryk Ehrlich, two
mternationally-known Polish Labor
leaders, have been dead for 14 months,
executed by the Soviet forces occupying
Poland. This has been learned by a
group of Socialist and union officials in
America who have been working cease-
lessly for their release.
The Russians charged both men with
attempting to influence the Red Army to
make a separate peace with Germany.
Their friends in America, who have
known them for many years, say that this
is nonsense. Alter and Ehrlich were
Socialists, bitter foes of both Commu-
nism and Nazism, according to J. B. S.
Hardman, editor of the Amalgamated
Clothing Workers’ publication, and had
worked hard to keep both philosophies
out of the ranks of Polish Labor.
“Their only crime was that they op-
posed Communism,” Mr. Hardman, who
had known Ehrlich since 1906 when they
were students in St. Petersburg’s Univer-
sity, said in their defence. “Both were
Jewish leaders and no friends of Hitler.”
This same view was taken by Emanuel
Novogrodsky, a leader of the Polish
underground movement, who is working
in America.
For almost four years Labor leaders in
America and in England had been asking
the Soviet Government to release them,
and were unaware that they had been
dead for the last 14 months. — N.Y. “Sun.”
* * * *
Execution by the Soviet Union of Alter
and Ehrhch has been condemned by the
American representation of the General
Jewish Workers’ Union of Poland.
“Heartbroken and stricken with grief,”
the Jewish Workers’ Union stated, “we
consider it our sacred duty to inform the
people of the United States and the world
that two leaders of the Jewish Labor
movement of Poland, the inspiration of
the Jewish underground movement of
Poland, our beloved friends and com-
rades .... were executed by the Soviet
Government.
“The good names of these well-known
anti-Fascists and Socialists were be-
smirched with the shameless accusation
of complicity with Hitler-Germany.
“The Jewish people will never forget
this bloody crime.”— N.Y. “World-Tele-
gram.”
* * * *
Wendell L. Willkie personally appealed
to Premier Stalin and Soviet Foreign
Commissar Molotov to free Alter and
Ehrlich. Recently he made a second
appeal, this time cabling Molotov urging
their release in the name of justice.—■
N.Y. “World-Telegram”
* * * * •
The Jewish Frontier, official organisa-
tion of the American Zionist Labor
movement, has joined in the chorus of
condemnation of Soviet Russia’s secret
execution of the two famous Polish Jewish
Labor leaders Alter and Ehrlich.
Repudiating the Soviet charge that
Henryk Ehrlich and Victor Alter were


0
0
0
m
works 24 hours a
i
V - ** I Us ' m**
i
II
An AGA Cooker in the
kitchen is as good as a
permit for extra staff. The
AGA burns continuously,
requires a minimum of at-
tention, and is instantly
available, day. or night, for
every kind of cooking, fast
or slow.
The AGA’s sparkling: vitreous-
enamelled surface is as clean as a
china plate. With an AGA, deli-
cious meals just cook themselves,
with full flavour and nourishing
values of all foods retained by the
scientific heat-storage principle.
The AGA is almost unbelievably
economical, and by using coke, a
by-product, assists in conserving
the nation's manpower.
The AGA Model C 8 is guaranteed
to consume no more than £4/7/6
worth of fuel, with coke at 33/-
a ton in the city. (Freight in-
creases price of fuel in country, but
annual consumption is so low that
amazing enonomy is possible any-
where in Australia.) Over 40,000
owners in the British Umpire alone
have proved the AGA Cooker to be
the first essential in a modern kit-
chen. Bet us advise you about the
Model suitable for your home in
city or country. Write for AGA
Catalogue K 4.
LEVIN & CO., LTD.
(Inc. in N.Z.) Estab. 1852.
45 King Street, Sydney.
432 Bourke Street, Melbourne.
South Australian Agents:
Colton. Palmer & Preston, Ltd., Adelaide.
Tasmanian Agents.
A. G. Webster & Sons, Ltd., Hobart.
Western Australian Agents:
Malloeb Bros., Ltd., Perth.
Queensland Agents:
Queensland Primary Producers’ Co-op-
erative Assoc., Ltd., Brisbane.
g
i -
etv
koWf
v*
is
in®
£ot
a*t u
l*V
CT^
iVve
tU e
aa
iW
tfo* ce
att
\es»
Na^f
kata
The FISK RABIOLA
AUSTRALIA’S FINEST BROADCAST RECEIVER
When Victory is ours, the Fisk
Radioia, will again be available
throughout Australia. • • Until
then, your local Radioia Dis-
tributor will gladly service your
present Radioia#
AMALGAMATED WIRELESS (i'sifl) 111
Australia's National Wireless Organisation
BUY £lO NATIONAL SAVINGS BONDS & WAR SAVINGS CERTIFICATES
“accomplices of Hiller,” the Jewish Fron-
tier says “they were two of the finest
Jewish spirits that graced this earth.” —
N. Y. “Journal-A merican.”
Hate Waiting in Europe.
(From a “Harper’s Magazine” arucie by
Hiram Mother-vell.)
Never in history has such a volume of
hate been generated as will be released
in Europe on Armistice Day. Hostages
have been massacred by the scores of
thousands, whole peoples torn from their
homes and transported like cattle to dis-
tant lands, entire communities systemati-
cally looted and degraded, districts and
nations methodically starved.
The only thing conceivably worse for
Europe than this wholesale bestiality
would be the retribution which, in terms of
human justice, it deserves. Unrestrained,
those who have suffered these cruelties and
indignities would take such vengeance
and so perpetuate their hatreds as to de-
lay orderly reconstruction for years. Ob-
viously, this must not be permitted to
happen. But to prevent such a humanly
justifiable revenge will call for political
management and wisdom of the highest
order.
It seems to me that this will be the
peculiar mission of the churches. Surely
never before has it been more necessary
for the salvation of man here below that
divine authority should proclaim in
words of steel: “Vengeance is mine ; I
will repay, saith the Lord.”
Dragnet Digest.
(Condensed from various acknowledged
’sources.)
All nations, great and small, must have
equal opportunity of development. Those which
are stronger and more advanced should con-
sider their strength as a trust to be
used to help the weaker nations to fit them-
selves for full self-government and not to
exploit them. Exploitation is spiritually as de-
grading to the exploiter as to the exploited.
Then, too, there must be no bitterness in the
reconstructed world. No matter what we have
undergone and suffered, we must try to forgive
those who injured us and remember only the
lesson gained thereby.— Madame Chiang Kai-
shek, speaking in Madison-square Garden, N.Y.
* * * *
Lend-lease Administrator Edward R. Stetti-
nius’s office reports that it has now bought
eight American industrial plants to be knocked
down, shipped abroad and set up to produce in
other countries. Three of these plants, of which
one is the $8,000,000 Ford tyre factory, are to
go to Russia. Three, of which two are plants to
■make cans for food, are to go to Australia.
The remaining two are India-bound. Also,
negotiations are pending for the purchase and
export of three more factories. We are sorry to
see this happen. It simply means that, though
these plants will be working for the Allied war
effort during the war, they will be converted
to peace-time production after the war and the
United States will be out that much possible
export business. Instead of our having these
plants in our country to make goods to com-
pete for foreign trade, the Russians, Austra-
lians and Elindus will have them. — N.Y. “Daily
News.”
« » * ♦
In contrast with the arrogance shown by the
Japanese when they are top dog, most Japanese
prisoners are the most servile so-called members
of the human race which can be imagined. The
national inferiority complex appears to reach
its full flower among captives.— Pacific war
correspondent, N.Y. “Times.”
* * * *
After the Allies win the war who gets North
Africa? Do we give it back to the French; if
so, to what faction? Do we give it or mandate
it to the British, take it ourselves, or what/
The only thing that seems sure is that we don t
give any part of it back to the Italians. Would
we go so far as to turn it over to the natives,
who are split among numerous races, factions
and religions, and who would probably start
fighting among themselves right after our army
of occupation was withdrawn? And then
pretty soon a European nation would move in
again to “restore order.” We only hope the
United States is not presented with this prize,
or any fraction thereof. We remember after
the last war that some of the Versailles' states-
men tried to present us with Armenia, which
we had the sense to refuse. North Africa could
be as mean and costly a headache to us (and
to the natives) as is Puerto Rico. After a few
years it could be as difficult to defend as the
Philippines proved to be. We are entering the
Dark Continent, the land of mystery; and it is
thus far a mystery how we’ll make our exit,
even if we win.— N.Y. “Daily News.”
* ♦ * *
The following is from the files of a welfare
officer in a British munition factory:
Dec. 9. —Write Welfare Officer of Ministry
of Labor asking for help to get razor blades.
Point out that works are 10 miles from nearest
large town and workers mostly live in villages
where no blades are obtainable.
Dec. 18. —Labor Welfare Officer replies he
has no authority. Refers me to local Price
Regulating Committee. Write this body same day.
Dec. 28. —Board of Trade replies! Refers
me to H.M. Inspector of Factories. Says, latter
has authority under Order No. 2149 to issue
permit for razor blades.
Dec. 29. —Visit H.M. Inspector personally.
He has never heard of order No. 2149, but
kindly rings Board of Trade. Discussion
ensues on telephone. Board of Trade says
order sanctions purchase of cutlery. Inspector
says razor blades are not cutlery. Board of
Trade says they are. Drawn battle, both sides
maintain their position.
Dec. 29. —Write Board of Trade Headquarters
in London asking for decision.
Jan 13.—N0 reply. No decision. No razor
blades. — London “Times” letter.
Anything is possible, including an apology
from Japan for the raid on Pearl Harbor and
reformation of the Japanese national character.
But Americans here [Chungking] believe it
more likely that the Japanese will not surrender
until they are decisively defeated by us, and
that the defeat of Japan will require a major
campaign by air, sea and land forces com-
parable with the war against Germany. No one
who understands the tremendous size of the
job is willing to set a time limit. Having lost
Burma last spring, having now no adequate
transport to China, the United Nations face a
lot of hard, tedious preliminary work before
they can go to work on Japan decisively. If
any part of the old illusion that Japan is a
pasteboard enemy lingers in the United States,
it may be stated in passing that Japanese
ability, shrewdness and courage as a fighter are
taken seriously here. — Chungking correspondent,
N.Y. “Times.”
* * * *
A new picture oi America’s growing mili-
tary might has been studied by Congress with
a disclosure that the Army contemplates an
air force equal to the entire aerial strength of
the Axis nations by the end of 1943, and a
total overseas force of 4,750,000 men by the
close of 1944.— Washington correspondent,
N.Y. “Times.”
• * * * *
Today Canada is convoying almost half our
[U.S.] ships across the Northern Atlantic, is
furnishing virtually all the nickel and about 40
per cent, of the aluminium used by the United
Nations. More than half the mechanical trans-
port used to chase Rommel clear across the
top of Africa was made in Canada, as well
as 40,000 of the vehicles sent with our North
African campaign force. The Dominion, more-
over, has the largest small-arms plant on the
continent, the second-largest tank arsenal and
the largest aluminium plant in the world. —
N.Y. “World-Telegram” financial writer.
* * * *
President Roosevelt predicted in October,
1939, that “when this ghastly war ends there
may be not one million but ten million or
twenty million men, women and children....
who will enter into the wide picture—the prob-
lem of the human refugee.” Even the highest
figure mentioned by the President has already
been exceeded. The most numerous group
consists of those who have had to flee be-
fore advancing armies. In China alone there
are said to be 50,000,000 of these. There
must be almost as many Russians who evacu-
ated or escaped from German-occupied terri-
tory. Two million Indians who had long been
settled in Burma found their way to India.
Poles who fled to Soviet Russia and who fled
from Russian Poland into German Poland and
the Vilna territory must run into the millions.
When the Low Countries and France were
invaded 30,000 civilians and many more
soldiers—Belgians, Dutch, Poles, Czechs and
other nationalities —escaped to Great Britain
alone. So it has gone in Greece, Yugoslavia,
Malaya and the East Indies. Although the
vast majority of exiles will wish to return home,
and will be welcomed by their Governments,
there will be a residuum unable to return —
either because their Governments will not be
prepared to receive them or because they them-
selves will refuse, in view of past events, to
incur the fresh risks that might be involved.
We cannot estimate today how large this
residuum may be, but since the total of dis-
placed persons is already many millions even
a small percentage will present a formidable
problem. — Sir Herbert Emerson, in “Foreign
Affairs . v
* * * *
The -venereal disease rate in the armed ser-
vices of the United States throughout the world
is 40 per 1000 per year, probably the lowest
miltary rate in U.S. history. Nevertheless, this
“new infection” rate is three and one-third times
the civilian rate.— N.Y. “Times.”
* * * *
Nearly 3,400,000 persons had been executed
or had died in prison in nine Nazi-occupied
countries by the end of 1942. Ihese figures
are based mainly on German announcements.—
Inter-Allied Information Committee statement.
* * * *
There are too many French Communists,
Socialists, Fascists, Royalists and outright Nazis
for a free democracy to prevail long in France.
The great defect of the French character is that
the Frenchman is damned by his very virtues
He loves liberty to the extent that he will
even give the fullest liberty to those who seek
to destroy liberty. — N.Y. “Journal- American
columnist.
* * * *
“Until the fascist domination of Italy is
ended, and while Italians, however blindly, follow
fascist leadership, there can be no valid deal-
ings save by. force alone. Nevertheless, we m
America insist on hoping that the day will
come when we can once more welcome into the
brotherhood of civilisation a free and friendly
Italian nation, giving again to the world the
fruits of her shining culture and her splendid
traditions.”— U.S. Assistant Secretary of State
A. A. Berle.
* * * *
I am violating the new code by even breath-
ing about the odd state of affairs that exists
with reference to bases in Siberia, and some-
body will probably step up and tell me that
I am a complete moohe and should keep ray
trap closed on questions like this, because it
seems that in view of Uncle Joe’s current
troubles it would be positively rude to bring
any new problems to his mind. But, you see,
we have troubles, too, and one of them is
manoeuvring into position for a good belt at
Japan, and unless we get those bases we may
never achieve that position, as there is no other
available land close enough to Tokyo for us to
handily connect with our Sunday punch. In
the meantime, it is within the realm of possi-
bility that Japan might keep whittling at us
until we are down to a splinter. Now Uncle
Joe wants a second front in Europe, of which,
in our relation of pal, we would be a part. No
one can blame him for that desire, because
his country is fighting for its life. But our
nation is also fighting for its life, and we would
like a sort of a second front in Asia, which
the bases would give us, and it seems to me,
simpleton that I am about such matters, that if
Uncle Joe expects us to send our soldiers to
die for him he ought to be willing to give us
a bit of land in exchange for their blood. —
U.S. syndicate writer Damon Runyon.


Divorce Notices.
TO LANCE MARSDEN* formerly of Mont
Albert in the State of Victoria but now of
parts unknown Greengrocer.—TAKE NOTICE
that your wife EDITH MARY MARSDEN has
instituted proceedings against you for a disso-
lution of marriage on the ground of desertion
UNLESS you enter an appearance in the Office
of the Prothonotary of the Supreme Court Mel-
bourne on or before the Fourteenth day of
May 1943 the case may proceed in your absence
and you may be ordered to pay costs AND
FURTHER if you intend to defend the said
suit you must cause an answer to be filed in
the said office on or before the Twenty-fourth
day of May 1943.—TH1S ADVERTISEMENT
is inserted by CYRIL ST. MICHAEL STANIS-
LAUS POWER, of 283 Queen Street, Mel-
bourne, Public Solicitor for Victoria, Solicitor
for the Petitioner.
TO ARCHIBALD BANNATYNE TURNER
formerly of No. 8 Carmyle Avenue Toorak in
the State of Victoria Gardener. —TAKE
NOTICE that your wife WILLIAMENA
ALEXANDRINA ELIZABETH ANN
TURNER has instituted proceedings against
you for divorce on the ground of desertion
for three years and upwards UNLESS you
enter an appearance in the Office of the Pro-
thonotary of the Supreme Court Law Courts
William Street Melbourne in the State of Vic-
toria on or before the Thirteenth day of May
1943 and file an answer therein on or before
the Twenty-first day of May 1943 the suit may
proceed in your absence and you may be
ordered to pay costs.—LUKE MURPHY &
CO., 422 Bourke Street, Melbourne, Victoria,
Solicitors for the Petitioner,
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES— In Divorce.
TO QUEENIE LEVENE LAWRENCE late of
Macksville N.S.W.—TAKE NOTICE that
AUBREY DOUGLAS LAWRENCE has filed
a Petition for Divorce No. 1022 of 1943 on
the grounds of desertion without just cause or
excuse for three years and upwards If you
wish to defend you may enter an appearance at
the Divorce Office Supreme Court King Street
Sydney by the Fourteenth day of June 1943
and obtain a copy of the petition without
charge from F. W. REILLY Solicitor 2b Castle-
reagh Street, Sydney.—(L.s.) C. K, BODY,
Registrar.
f
' <
/
/
■mm
m
i
Are you shackling this man?
Consider well, and face the question: Are you sending your
soldier boy into battle with his hands tied; are you denying him
the right of all free men to fight for his life and all he holds
dear and all YOU hold dear?
If you are withholding the weapons he needs, you are condemn-
ing him to fight machines with bare knuckles. That’s not cricket!
He needs arms, munitions, tanks, planes, transport and equipment
of all kinds and the cost comes high.
Do your part in seeing that he “ gets enough in time”. Buy to
the fullest measure of your ability, National Savings Bonds or
War Savings Certificates and buy with pride and high courage
to-day! To-morrow may be too late!
This advertisement is inserted by
t t
dfg
the makers of Top Dog Men's Wear
vv*
immMM
vs-'
'
s*
€k*>
'■'S&*
10 for 1/1
20 for 2/2
they never vary
all you've got into £lO
National Savings Bonds.
Carreras Ltd.—ls 4 Years’ Reputation for Quality
5063 B
Answers to Correspondents
Name arid address must appear on the MS. So
liability is undertaken re contributions voluntarily
submitted; and no MS. will be returned unless
stamps accompany. MS. should be addressed to
the Editor.
The Muse aroused:
E.G.R.:
Feeding pigs and poddy calves,
Invariably laboring under the stars,
To them we owe great gratitude
For their help in producing food.
A gallant organisation ha v e we
In the Women’s Land Army.
E.N.W.:
Yes! it’s good to know that someone still prefers to
be with you,
Just to share with you your troubles, lend a hand to
see them through;
Share with you your aspirations for a purer social
state.
Clasp your hand in friendly gladness, saying only
one word “Mate.”
. ...A.E.W.: Not a new thought in any of
them J.F.S.: Rough R.S.: The theme’s
too big for you V.T.: The “wild words”
might make a more exciting poem... .8.M.:
Don’t use “Thou”; and don’t, when you’re
stuck for a rhyme for “truth,” bring in a
“tyrant’s hoof” V.A.: Too raw A.C.N.:
Adds nothing to Dennis E.G.: You should
wait for a decision from the other paper before
sending it here R.G.G.: Sing-song
R.L.D.: Just pomes... .C.E.8.: Mere moral-
ising A.McL.: “Is this sort of muck any
good?” No V.E.: “All that I want is that
home town of mine.” Off with you, then.
SERVICE DEPARTMENT.
Information Sought.
(!) Can a man and wife, both over pension
age, retire, put their bank credits into a home,
stilt hold war bonds and war spvings certificates
and receive old-age pension ? (2) Do the wife’s
savings, etc., affect the husband’s pension ?
(1) The value of war bonds and war-savings
certificates would have to be taken into con-
sideration, and pensions would be reduced by
£1 a year for every complete £lO by which
the value of the bonds and certificates exceeded
£ll9. If the total value was £BOO no pension
would be granted. (2) The value of the wife’s
property (war bonds, certificates, etc.) would
have to be taken into consideration in deter-
mining the rate of pension, if any, payable to
the husband.
* * * *
(1) Can the executors of a will be required
to produce to a beneficiary a record of invest-
ments, etc., which they have made during the
management of an estate? (2) Can the bene-
ficiary get this information direct from the
executors or would he need to employ a
solicitor ?
(1) The executors are required to file annual
accounts which may be inspected at the Probate
Registry. You are entitled to a copy from the
executors upon payment of cost. (2) He should
write direct to the executors. If he got no
satisfaction it would be advisable to employ a
solicitor.
* * « *
Were there two ( only ) five-pound gold pieces
minted in Sydney in 1887 to commemorate
Queen Victoria’s jubilee?
No evidence can be found that such coins
were minted. Sydney and Melbourne Mints in
1887 issued only sovereigns and half-sovereigns
in gold. As the dies for all coins were made at
the Royal Mint in London at the time, it is
hardly likely that dies for five-pound pieces
would be made and sent out if only two coins
were to be struck from them.
Information as to rates of pay, age limits
ana duties of the Naval Auxiliary Patrol?
Minimum age for mobilisation for full-time
service is 20. Personnel are called upon to do
duty in any operational area. Rates of pay,
terms of service, etc., are as those of R.A.N.
r • *
oner Answers.
A.N.: Information unobtainable M.F.F.:
War-time restrictions make it difficult to obtain
materials for pottery-making. Apply to County
Council for information on oven 8.K.:
Feed pollard to pigs, combined with maize or
L or i D ., w/ ¥ i ,a _ *
• W-Tf" • A genet; is a small carnivo-
rous animal about the size of a cat. _ It is a
native of the Mediterranean region and is valued
for its fine fur and the perfume it produces,
....E.T.: Under war conditions many electors
are engaged in duties entailing prolonged
absence from their home districts.... H.L.: In
1940-41 Brisbane’s average daily water con-
sumption per head was 46.23 gallons.. . .N.S.:
The State Government claims that £15,000,000
was granted in relief G.K.S.: Charring
fence-posts is a preservative provided the fence
was erected before the sap dried out, but is
not needed if the posts are well seasoned
A.W.: The Golden Key was published by
Angus and Robertson H.N.: The boundary
of privately-owned land generally extends to
the centre of a stream bordering the land.,..
Get m touch with J. A. F. Mullock,
H, t R °, 1r ™ wicViV/i ' wiLil 9 a
post omce wbs established st Woonon£t*««*
LT . Xan in a so i ut ion of alum (51b.), salt
Glauber salt (Hlb.) and water (id gal-
ions). Use enough of this solution to cover
hides and handle twice daily, allowing six days
for tanning.


A
n
lr
fOIKK UOS
n QBlt"
Illustrating
the LUDOWICI
PIVOT DRIVE
LUD 0 Wl c rs
hat/e the answer
BEHIND the fine quality apd the assurance of maximum efficiency in
Ludowici Power Transmission Equipment, stand Ludowici Technicians
—men whose knowledge and experience of every power transmission re-
quirement enable them to give a ready answer to your particular problem.
Our reputation has been built on our willingness to give an unbiassed
opinion and to recommend and supply the most suitable equipment for
each power transmission application.
You have only to ask for our advice to have it freely given.
J. C. LUDOWICI & SON LTD.
117 YORK STREET, SYDNEY
leather
BELT I N G
PULLEY*
pi .t
COUPLINGS
SHAFTING
GEARS & HANGERS
*
LUDOWICIS
pnwrv
TRANSMISSION
EQUIPMENT
Evidence of _
INTEGRITY and SECURITY
Essential when appointing your Trustee .
WHEN you appoint an Executor and Trustee under your Will, you should
W satisfy yours?lf as to his integrity and that he has a
perienoe in handing Estates. You will be wise to assure yourself that your
Estate will be secure in Ins hands. -insured
lend for a copy of “Your Executor and Trustee.” which explains the Company •
SGFVic6.
PERPETUAL TRUSTEE COMPANY, LIMITED
DIRECTORS’ T H Kelly (Chairman) ; Hon. T. A. J. Playfair, , E
DIRECTORS. T. H. A^n 0 . Le wis; W. Deuchar Gordo* Manager>
H. V. Douglass. Managing Director. t nT Absentees and others.
Executor and Trustee, Agent under Power of Attorney for Absentees
Aonnnutrator etc. ecn non (100
Trust and Agency Funds under Administration exceed £o , ,
33-39 HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY.
Southern and Riverina District C E S
Western District Representative: H A k> naw. I*o i/om
The WILD
CAT
COLUMN
Amalgamated Textiles (N.S.W.)
To Re- Re-
Sept., Profit. Dividends. serves, serves.
£ £ £ £
1983.. 21,768 5 p.c. = 14,759 7,009 7,062
Unexplained reduction, £282 .. .. 6,780
1934.. 9,733 35 p.c. = 11.028 5,485
1935.. 17,624 5 „ „ 14,704 2,920 8,405
Unexplained reduction, £73 .. .. 8,332
1936.. 12,513 Nil 12,513 20.815
1937.. 7,183 5 p.c. = 14,709 13.319
Forfeited shares, £ll4 .. .. •• 13,433
Plant, etc., written up, £64,041 .. 77,474
Written off freeholds, £11,116 . . 66,358
Nov., Loss. Deficit.
1938*. 125,652 Nil 59,294
Forfeited shares, £142 .. .. 59,152
Tax refunds, £4575 .. .. •• 54,577
From tax reserve, £1405 .. 53,172
Sept., Profit.
1939 t. 6,367 Nil 6,367 46,805
Loss sale property, £1457 .. -• 48,262
1940.. 30,469 Nil 30,469 17,793
Profit sale of shares, £433 .. .. 17,360
Reserves.
Written off capital, £56,158 .. .. 87,798
1941.. 35,667 9.2 p.c. = 22,063 13,604 51,402
1942.. 23,582 9.2 „ „ 22,064 1,518 52,920
*l4 months. Figures for some years prior to 1938
misleading owing to overvaluation of stock,
t 10 months.
Artificial conditions appertain at the
moment, and shareholders’ interests might
have been better served by a more con-
servative distribution of profits, as in
1940-41. The co. doesn’t appear to have
kept much up its sleeve. Depreciation
of £6623 was probably no more than
necessary considering the way textile
plant —in between strikes and other ab-
senteeism —is being worked almost round
the clock, and the board’s recent consider-
able expenditure on maintenance is prob-
ably prompted as much by necessity as
volition.
Decentralisation was the co.’s com-
mendable aim, its three mills, which nor-
mally specialise in medium-grade wors-
teds, being situated at Albury, Orange
and Goulburn. The carrying of manu-
facturing to wool-producing centres took
the finished product from markets, how-
ever, and overhead has been one of the
niggers in the woodpile. Moreover, in-
ternal differences from time to time
haven’t helped. Of the £449,481 of capi-
tal in 1929, only £239,021 now remains,
the last £55,158 being written off a couple
of years back. That closely followed the
unhappy disclosure in 1939 that profits
and divs. in preceding years had been
exhibited only by a previous manager’s
overstatement of stock, in which a cut of
£117,620 was necessary.
The Government is now the co.’s chief
custpmer, such civilian trade as the looms
are permitted to cater for being restricted
to low-priced, standardised cloths to
“save” yarn. Neither class of business
yields the ordinary trade margin, and the
troublesome costs factor has been offset
only by expanding turnover. As the re-
sult of capacity working mill profit ran
out £13,128 better at £85,440 last year.
Disclosed net, however, was £12,085
lighter, earnings now incurring full
liability for tax —estimated at £27,844, up
£24,056. Profit of £23,582 was 9.8 p.c.
on the present share-register, which is in
10s, lOd. shares, and all but £l5lB was
distributed in the shilling div.
At the present rate of deterioration
much of the industry’s equipment will be
due for scrapping at the cessation of hos-
tilities jf costs are to be kept competi-
tive. While it has rehabilitated its credit.
Amalgamated so far hasn’t been able to
accumulate a plant replacement fund;
Nov., Sept., Sept., Sept.,
1938. 1939. 1941. 1942. .
Paid capital.. £294,179 £294,179 £239,021 £239,021
Overdraft .. 61,894 53,330 11,878
Sundry creditors 56,100 61,851 24,762 37,730
Tax reserve .. 400 1,500 4,000 28,000
Freeholds .. 72,235 72,235 66,036 66,035
Plant, etc. .. 135,627 130,501 120,880 115,131
Stocks .. 117,620 98,555 101,827 105,716
Book debts .. 26,242 50,267 55,315 42,918
Cash, etc. .. 1,560 1,398 1,716 38,904
Cash resources at Sept. 30 were wanted
to cover the co.’s estimate of its tax
commitments and the final div. paid in
December. Thoughtful textile manage-
ments will muster all the strength at their
disposal pending the return to open com-
petition again.
The D.I.C.
Maoriland best knows the Drapery and
General Importing Co. of New Zealand,
Ltd., by those initials.
r- ——Dividends \
pref. To Re- Re-
Aug., Profit. 5 p.c.* Ord. serves, serves.
£ £ £ £ £
1933.. 17,207 12,500 2£ p.c. = 4,532 175 113,722
Inner reserves disclosed, £21,969 .. 135,691
1934.. 26.684 12,500 5 p.c. = 9.077 5,107 140.798
1935. .27,777 12,500 5 „ „ 9.092 6,185 146,983
1936.. 33.005 12,500 6 „ „ 10,927 9,578 156,561
Reserves capitalised, £58,899 .. .. 97,662
1937.. 37.568 12,500 6 p.c. = 14.589 10,479 108.141
1938.. 39.790 12,500 6 „ „ 14,589 12.701 120.842
1939.. 41.853 12,500 6 „ „ 14.589 14,764 135,606
1940.. 41.793 12,500 7 „ „ 17,021 12,272 147,878
1941.. 39.616 12,500 7 ~ „ 17,021 10,094 157,972
1942.-39,603 12,500 7 „ „ 17,021 10,082 168,054
* Reduced from 6 p.c. to 5 p.c. by law.
Clothes rationing did not begin until
about three-quarters of the term had run ;
the chairman at the annual meeting was
able to speak of record turnover, record
takings and record taxation. For the first
time sales by the co.’s chain of high-class
softgoods stores at Dunedin, Christ-
church, Wellington and Wanganui ex-
ceeded a million pounds. The co. is well
situated to share in the trade of three of
the four main M.L. centres, but in the
new circumstances in which all industry
in the South Pacific finds itself figures
as large as those for the past year are not
expected again in a hurry.
Under the influence of buoyant turn-
over, gross earnings last term were
were £23,706 higher at £351,591. Against
this increase, ordinary exes, of adminis-
tration (£188,646) were pulled back £9268,
a notable performance. But for land and
income tax, social and national security
tax (£122,043) an extra £32,919 had to
be set aside ; the figure would have been
£5556 greater still but for the fact that
there was a surplus from the previous
year’s allocation. Setting aside £lOOO, as
in the previous term, for patriotic pur-
poses, the net profit was £38,327, up £55.
Additions to reserves are responsible for
variations in the figures shown in the
introductory table. Adjusted earnings
were equal to 11.1 p.c. on ord. capital,
compared with 11.1, 12, 12, 11.2 and
10.3 p.c. for the five preceding years.
The ord. div. was kept at 7 p.c., and on
the pref. div. the co. again paid the social
and national security tax; this was worth
an extra penny in every eightpence of the
div. But, as usual, “this decision does not
constitute a precedent.” While it lasts the
concession is some compensation for the
compulsory reduction in the pref. div.
from 6 p.c. to 5 p.c. under the Mort-
gagors and Lessees’ Rehabilitation Act
of 1936.
The fact that past provisions were
drawn upon to meet £5OOO-odd of last
year’s tax makes the outlook for the
present year uncertain, especially as turn-
over is likely to decline. However, there
is a fair margin above the 7 p.c. ord.
div,, and the one-for-three bonus issue of
about six years ago makes that equal to
9\ p.c. to old holders. It is worth record-
ing that last year the Government took
over 15s. in the £ of net profit in taxa-
tion. For every £ shareholders got in
divs. the Government received £4 2s. 7d.
The co., fortunately, has been able to
add to its stocks:
1934. 1938. 1941. 1942.
Pref. capital,, £250,000 £250,000 £250.000 £250,000
Ord. capital .. 181,829 243,149 243,149 243,150
Liabilities .. 184,195 204,553 212,232 213,550
Premises, plant,
etc. .. 525,917 458,884 417,536 400,371
Stocks .. 181,829 221,770 251,530 284,142
Book debts .. 70,297 102,779 98,185 93,963
Investments and
cash . . 4,931 55,951 120,375 120,549
Up £32,612, merchandise has been “most
carefully taken and valued” in the ac-
counts ; the increase is due to “higher
costs and early deliveries.” Fixed assets
are down £17,165; “full provision has
been made for depreciation, and all ex-
penditure on buildings, fixtures and plant
during the year has been written off.”
The Wellington tearoom was closed owing
to staff and other shortages. The fittings
were sold at a profit and the surplus used
to write down other book values. The
co. has £BO,OOO in war loans, and though
these are now at a discount on the market
the financial position is comfortable and
improving.
The co.’s scrip is well held in these
days of inflating prices and controlled in-
terest yields. Buyers offer 15s. 6d. for
the 10s. ords., backed by 16s. lid. in net
tangibles. Quotes of 255. do not attract
sellers of the prefs., which are covered
to the extent of 53 s.
Squatting Investment Co. (Melb.)
Towards
Dec Profit Dividends. Reserves. Deficit.
£ £ £ £
1933 .. 236 Nil 236 105,491
1934 .. 23,843 Nil 23,843 81,648
1935 .. 24,224 3.3 p.c. = 8,111 16,113 65,035
1936 .. 44,680 10 „ „ 24,333 20,347 45,188
1937 .. 45,512 11.6 „ ~ 28,389 17,123 28,066
1938 .. 3,089 Nil 3,089 24.976
1939 ~ 29,698 10 p.c. = 24.334 5.364 19,612
1940 .. 23,854 8J „ 20,278 3,576 16,037
1941 .. 17,011 3| „ „ 8,111 8,900 7,137
Reserves.
1942 .. 24,722 6f „ ~ 16,222 8,500 1.363
A hobbling capital deficiency of £112,692
which the bad behavior of Nature and
an anaemic wool market left the board
to nurse in 1930 has been replaced by
a small credit. It was an arduous 12-
year job, and while the mess was being
cleaned up shareholders had to be content
with an average 4.4 p.c. div., all distri-
buted since 1935. Prudence (and his-
tory) suggests that the rate should be
kept moderate and finances husbanded.
The co.’s experience reflects the risks
of the business. It has been squatting
out west in N.S.W. and over the border
in Queensland for 61 years. Thanks to
the British wool contract, since the end
of June established on terms 15 p.c.
better to growers, the gamble has become
one mainly with Nature—and Govern-
ments. After a dry start, seasons last
term averaged out satisfactorily. Lamb-
ing was good, and, though the extra
24,465 sheep turned off the shears cut
only an extra 52 bales of greasy, the
average per bale worked out £3 17s.
better:
Sheep \
On Books Wool, Pro- Average
Shorn. Dee. 31. Bales, ceeds. per Bale.
1934.. 155,935 184,469 4205 £54,395 £l2/18/8
1936.. 131,167 160,344 3912 76,769 19/12/5
1937.. 116,696 104,589 3520 67,198 19/1/9
1938.. 74,505 98,618 1842 25,455 13/16/0
1939.. 95,212 125,508 2958 48,381 J6/7/1
1940 . 111,120 102,310 3532 56,90 l 16/2/6
1941.. 98.807 131,479 2894 50,259' 1-7/7/10
1942.. 123,272 148,565 2946 62,587 21/4/10
Gross earnings (£74,922) advanced
£9283, and what variation there was in
outgoings occurred mainly in taxation
(£7411/ up £2076). After depreciation
of £5994, profit of £24,722 was 10.1 p.c.
on capital, and the distribution doubled
to 6f p.c.
Leasehold accounts for £71,436 and
freehold for £129,378 of the asset total
below:
1935. 1927. 1941. 1942.
Capital .. £243,338 £243,388 £243,358 £243,338
Liabilities .. 7,332 1,179 42,131 31,135
Tax reserve .. 12,000 25,000 8,500 10,00 J
Stations, plant, • „„„
etc. .. 125,141 107,718 213,590 208.502
Sheep, cattle,
horses •. 75,599 62,132 62,630 64,761
Wool unsold.. 1,317 10,267 105 597
Cash, etc. .. 8,189 81,612 10,507 28,198
In Queensland, where the co.’s leases
run out next year, the State Government
has announced no intention of subdivid-
ing pastoral holdings while war lasts. In
N.S.W. 88,000 acres of Quantambone
are to be resumed and a four-year exten-
sion (till 1977) of the lease granted. A
Settlement Promotion Bill proposing a
special levy, steeply graduated, on unim-
proved capital values in excess of £5OOO
is also on the way.
December rains have guaranteed feed
for some months ahead, and the clip is
sold for the duration and a season there-
after at 15.4 d. a pound. World demand
and post-war marketing arrangements
will then influence returns. Meantime, a
difficulty is to muster all the labor re-
quired.
Equity Trustees Co. (Melb.)
To Re— Re-
June. Profit. Dividends. serves, serves.
£ £ £ £
1933.. 11,760 12 p.c. = 10,800 960 89,105
1934.. 14,951 12 „ „ 10,800 4,151 93,206
1935.. 11,973 12 „ „ 10,800 1,173 9M|9
Staff fund, £844 .. •. • • 9 3,a50
1936.. 12,875 12 p.c. = 10,800 2,075 95,660
Staff fund, £1339 ..
1937.. 15,925 12 p.c. = 10,800 j- 1,255 96,910
Written off premises, £2531 J
Staff fund, £1499 .. •-1
1938.. 15,984 12 p.c. = 10,800 }■ 1,185 98,100
Written off premises, £2500 J
S'taff fund, £ 1625 .. •• j no mo
1939.. 15,344 ,12 p.c. 10,800 }- M. 9 99,019
Written off premises, £2OOO J
Profit sale investments, £5Ol .. SV,oM
Staff fund, £1692 .. .-I nn
1940.. 13,907 11 p.c. = 9.900}- 315 99,835
Written off premises, £2OOO J
Staff fund, £l7Ol .. -.1
1941.. 13,149 10 p.c. = 9,000 } 448 100,283
Written off premises, £2OOO J
1942.. 11,872 8 p.c. = 7,200 |
Written off premises, £2OOO }■ 928 101,211
Staff fund, £1744 .. . • J
This co. has been in the trustee busi-
ness in Vic. for the last 54 years. It
has a pleasing history, a solid financial
structure and strong connections. There
is £90,000 of capital, including £50,000
of bonus scrip, to feed in 180,000 50s.
shares paid to 10s. each —the other 40s.


INVENTORS. —Have you an idea worth patenting?
Griffith, Hassel and Griffith, Patent Attorneys,
Asbestos House, Cr. York and Barrack Streets, Sydney,
obtain Commonwealth and foreign patents. — Advt.
» * * *
DAVIES & COLLISON, Patent Attorneys, Collins
House, 360 Collins Street, Melbourne, C.X. Austra-
lian and overseas Patents and Trade Marks. — Advt,
STOP™* Rupture
Worries/
(WjrU ® lotaHon,
of YOUR RUPTURE
Try the new Rodssel
Appliance Free. En-
ables you to do hard
work with comfort and
security. Definitely
holds, a condition ab-
solutely necessary for
Improvement or recov-
ery. Recommended by
Doctors. Satisfaction
guaranteed no matter
where you live. Send for details, self
measurement form, testimonials and 14 days’
free trial offer. No obligation.
THE ROUSSEL APPMANCE CO..
DKI’T. 27, 84 PITT ST.. STHMJiT.
Weak Kidneys
Often Cause
Nagging Backache and Leg Pains.
DOAN’S
BACKACHE
KIDNEY PILLS
help the kidneys discharge poisonous
waste from the blood, thus removing
the cause of backache, leg pains, lum-
bago, swollen feet and ankles. Buy a
bottle today.
SOLD BY ALL CHEMISTS
AND STOREKEEPERS.
Foster-McClellan Co.,
Proprietors,
15 Hamilton St., Sydney.
SSHt
m
&
ms s*
/
/
For the first time in any war, Cable and Field
Telephone Wire manufactured in Australia has
been extensively used in military communications.
Olympic pioneered this Australian Industry and ha*
already produced over 150 million yards . . .
The illustration depicts laying telephone
cable along a creek , and is from an actual
photograph taken in Papua.
Olympic
CABLES
THE OLYMPIC TYRE & RUBBER CO. LTD.
CAPSTAN
The Empire's
Favourite Cigarette
i m
Lend your Money to hasten Victory.
Buy £lO National Savings Bonds or
War Savings Certificates.
IBSBD-ll4*
is callable only in the event of liquida-
tion —and the £90,000 has the support
and assistance of £101,211 of reserves.
The two combined, together with £15,053
of mortgage money gathered to assist
in erection of the co.’s Bourke-street
premises, are represented by freehold,
etc., £119,559, public securities £23,000,
debtors’ balances £67,736, and casn
£1570.
That lot turned in £5689 last term,
when £53,603 was also gathered in corpus
and other commissions, making gross
earnings £59,293:
Gross Exes. p.c.
June, Earnings. Exes. Earnings.
1920 .. £26,673 £14,775 65.3
1930 . . 52,328 34,364 65.6
1935 . . 50,300 38,327 76.1
1936 .. 61,527 38,652 75.4
1937 ~ 64,961 39,036 71.0
1938 . . 57,415 41,431 72.1
1939 .. 57,281 41,937 73,2
1940 . . 67,288 43,381 75.7
1941 . . 59,226 46,077 77.7
1942 . . 59,293 47.421 80.0
The contraction of £1277 in net earnings
was the result of a bigger tax bill (£6197,
up £1707). The £11,872 of profit claimed
was 13.2 p.c. on capital as against 14.6,
15.4, 17.3, 18 and 17.7 p.c. back to 1937,
After striking £2OOO off the book value
of premises and sending £1744 to the
staff fund, enough remained to show only
a wink over 9 p.c. on capital, so a couple
of points were chipped off the div., re-
ducing it to 8 p.c.
Although the Equity does not broad-
cast the volume of trusts on its books,
the exigencies of war and growing un-
certainties and complications connected
therewith have driven more business into
the expert care of the trustee cos. and
created an urgent need for revision of
wills, as well as thrown into bolder re-
lief the advantages of the corporate over
the private trustee. But economic changes
resulting from a war economy have caused
taxation and costs generally to advance
at a brisker pace than revenue gains from
expanding business. Moreover, corpus
and other commission charges remain
anchored by legislation, which has also
kept interest rates and rents low. Until
the trustee cos. get some relief in this
respect—and that isn’t likely while war
lasts —continued depreciation in value of
the currency is likely to be further re-
flected in dividend rates?
Westralia reports activity in the blue
asbestos industry in the Hamersley
Ranges inland from the port of Roe-
bourne, Colonial Sugar has acquired a
group of “the nearest to coast” areas
and intends, it is said, to manufacture
asbestos sheets. The De Bernales group
is having a plant made at Kalgoorlie for
dealing with its deposits, and owners of
others are stated to be getting busy.
* * * *
After 41 years of almost continuous
operation South Kalgurli (W.A.) has
ceased ore treatment on the mine and
has arranged with a neighboring mill to
do the job. A thorough clean-up in and
around the South Kalgurli plant should
yield a considerable quantity of gold.
Kalgoorlie and other Westralian pro-
ducing fields are still falling down the
gold-production stairs. Their aggregate
yield for March at 44,619 fine ounces
was 34130 z. less than that for February
and 30,8390 z. short of that for March,
1942. The fall is likely to continue, while
more —and more —men are being man-
powered for other work.
* * * *
Australian shareholders are grumbling
at the continued withholding of dividends
by the Sons of Gwalia board. No dis-
tribution has been made since December,
1941, and cash in hand is estimated to
be now 10s. a share, which is equal to
the issued capital of the co. Grumblers
say that the excuse for not paying out
of “uncertain position in the South-west
Pacific and its possible effect upon opera-
tions at the mine” is not good enough.
* * * *
Passed on in Perth, George Williams,
an early editor of the long-defunct “Cool-
gardie Miner” and before that “Argus”
representative in Ballarat. Later he was
secretary of the Coolgardie Exhibition,
town clerk and president of the local
Amalgamated Miners’ Association. Cool-
gardie pressmen in Williams’s time were
(on the “Miner”) Oakley Brown, F. C.
B. Vosper, George Kingswell, Larry
Goodrich, Jack Cameron (who was later
a Reuters correspondent in South Africa,
later still editor of the “Mentone News
and Monte Carlo Gazette” and still
later a British Consul), Bert Toy and
H. C. Davies; (on the “Golden Age”)
Alf Chandler, Hal Colebatch and J. B.
Mills ; (on the “Review”) “Smiler” Hales
and Jack Drayton. Those were the days!
* * * *
“O.B.”; United States interests aren’t
kicking against the goldmining shut-down
as much as those in Canada, where it is
argued that the McKenzie Administra-
tion will lose $90,000,000 in revenue from
a production worth $205,000,000 in 1941.
In addition, the Dominion may have to
cough up $25,000,000 in mine mainten-
ance, besides contributing substantially to
the relief of municipalities dependent on
goldmines—an estimated setback, in all,
of over $125,000,000. The closure in the
United States will not mean that Uncle
Sam, world’s second-largest gold-pro-
ducer, will entirely disappear from the
list of gold-winners. Non-ferrous mines,
chiefly copper, in which the yellow metal
is regarded as a by-product have been
supplying about a tenth of U.S, output,
while with the* demand for base metals
expanding the copper, lead and zinc in
many shows worked primarily for their
gold content may be sufficient to justify
their continuance.
Canada’s base-metal production moves
up. Statistics compiled by the C.P.R.
show that the combined value of
copper, nickel, lead and zinc in 1942
was nearly one and a half million dollars
in excess of 1941. Aggregate value of
a group of metals of strategic importance,
including antimony, bismuth, cadmium,
chromite, cobalt, magnesium, molybden-
ite, tin, tung'sten and manganese totalled
$4,177,813, compared with $2,389,949 in
1941. Another group, comprising mer-
cury, arsenic, iron ore, radium, uranium
and selenium, increased in value to
$6,948,406 from $4,684,885 in 1941.
Silver output was nearly a million ounces
less thgn in 1941 ; however, an increase
in the average yearly price made the
value for 1942 output 3 p.c. higher. Gold
production totalled $lB6 million, a de-
crease of nearly $2O million from the all-
time high of $205 million in 1941. De-
spite this drop, gold is still the most valu-
able mineral product, and represents 47
p.c. of the total value of all metals pro-
duced.
* * * *
The United States has put soldiers into
coppermines because of the shortage of
labor. Last year many men were taken
from these mines to work in ship-
yards and war plants. They were re-
placed mostly with unskilled workers, and
efficiency suffered.
* * * *
To ensure the best use of mining sup-
plies, Rand gold cos. have placed stocks,
purchases, allocation, distribution and
rationing in the hands of a Mine Stores
Department of the Transvaal Chamber
of Mines. Development all round has
been rigorously curtailed.
* * * *
Jo’burg reports that Rand mineowners
milled 66,979,700 tons in 1942 for a gold
production of 14,120,6170 z. Output for
1941 was 14,386,3610 z. from 67,255,450
tons. Working profit in 1942 was
£2,189,897 lower at £43,655,146, and
dividends, excluding inter-company pay-
ments, declined by £1,861,468 to
£16,892,517.
« * » m
In the United States during 1942 war
industries absorbed 69,000,0000 z. of
silver. This excludes lend-lease metal.
Silver was used in ’plane-engine bearings,
brazing alloys, electrical contacts, in-
signia, surgical equipment, dental alloys
and many other classes of work. Civilian
industries were left about 46,000,0000 z.
of the white metal after war demands
were met. The United States Treasury
holds over three thousand million ounces
of silver still, according to the review of
Handy and Harman, authorities on the
subject. But to get silver from the Trea-
sury a price of 71 cents an ounce must
be paid, whereas manufacturers of table-
ware, jewellery, etc., are allowed to charge
for their finished products on the basis
of only 35 cents an ounce. U.S. silver
is therefore not sought by manufacturers,
and imported metal is for war priorities
only. Silver is a political problem in
the United States. The principal pro-
ducing States are Idaho, Montana, Utah,
Arizona and Nevada.


MEETS THE NEED
While we are at war, your country calls for Cane-ite
for use in various structures indispensable to the
lighting forces for hutments, refrigeration, and cold
storage. The same reasons which make Cane-ite the
choice of the services—its insulating properties, its
ease of handling, its strength and rigidity, and its com-
paratively low cost—commend it to you for post-war
use in the h<j»me you will build or modernise.
INSULATING BOARD
THE COLONIAL SUGAR REFINING CO. LTD. (Building Materials Division)
Marketing
CANE-ITE • MASONITE • C.S.R. SLAG-WOOL • PLASTER PRODUCTS
MEDICAL AND DENTAL PLASTERS
SPECIAL NOTICE
THE HYGEIA DISSOLVENATOR
APPROVED BV THE BOARD OP HEALTH.
The manufacturers desire to notify the PuWic tliat “^en^AmpleSupplies
been overtaken, immediate delivery of private orders a given.
of Hygeia Dissolvent and paper aie assured. ge t o
This eliminated.
H is not us * s a^j^^^ I fo O u^f^^’an? I co^diti^ons a toher^tr i ln pans.
IN ST AX, YOURS BEFORE THE HOT HEATHER.
Anv Handy Man Can Instal It. Write for inustrated Pamphiet.
PRICeT Family Size, £l9/2/6 f.o.r. Sydney. Crating. 10/9.
HYC EIA SANITARY CO. PTY., LTL/.>
26 Bridge St.. Sydney. ? hone: from
P. Mclne.'noy ...H C.„ Ltd,. P««h.
Business,Rollery,Etc.
Spoiled Children of the War
In the complicated world of today,
when people are more than ever depen-
dent on each other because of the special-
isation of their activities and their group-
ings into large nations instead of small,
self-contained colonies, faithful, enlight-
ened leadership at the head of a country
is essential to the best working of that
country s affairs. So remote are the
majonty of Australians, geographically
and economically, from each other that
their co-operation as one people depends
in the ultimate on sound central govern-
ment and well-run financial, transport,
communication and education systems.
The war has accentuated the need for a
sound central authority. War is a Com-
monwealth matter, and war this year
is costing the Commonwealth more than
halt of all the production and effort of
"That n
and^the^gr^it^of^h^C^nimMwealth
has been increased by virtue St its
enormous powers under the National
Security Regulations. The freedom to
go as he pleases, legally, belongs to no
man, and, legally, his initiative and his
property are at the disposition of the
Govemment. He is at the mercy of the
Government almost every hour of the
, , c ■, „ ■ ,i,
lit we have plenty of evit ence m
tha ‘ on >V ' bose ™ llmg
b f governed are being . governed The
a !ona ecui 1 V aw ia = , ,
c ass, mdifferen for another Th(e dlegal
« r ‘ker mvanably has a friend or two in
c^sest
the extent that they sho uld be. Such weak-
ness on jfi e p ar t of the Government seems
t 0 man if es t itself only in respect of the
vo ting majority, with which trade-union-
ism is practically synonymous. Weakness
on the one hand is accompanied by social-
istic and bureaucratic tyranny on the
other. The man who employs labor, the
mdn who has a business or some sayings
invested in a company or a life policy--
m general, the man who hasa oaaa
a }«>? which he would like o
call his own—is often dealt with liarsmy
w^xhratt^
and inflation recommended by another,
Oh this rotten basis of envious and
wishful thinking Australia s Labor Gov-
eminent now stands at the most critical
stage in the country’s history. Like the
flash, plausible salesman of quack medi-
cines, cheap-jack domestic appliances and
bum assurance policies, Labor has de-
scended to a variety of tricks of public
deception and brain-scrambling. It was
against military training and the expen-
diture of money on defence during the
years of Axis preparation ; it has hated
the the essential Australian war
machine of the present day ; it has culti-
vated dislike of investors; it has asked
for higher wages when the only result of
such wage-increases could be the increase
in living and other costs that lead to
inflation, then depression and unemploy-
ment ; and it has been all in favor of
interference with established and success-
ful institutions, especially when such suc-
cess has been due to brains and ability of
a quality which the Labor party itself
did not possess. Eighteen months of war-
time office have made Labor a liar and a
fool many times, but the illogical, para-
sitical nature of the traditional Labor
platform is never admitted, and any
word of praise for those whose foresight
and enterprise (private) made the Aus-
tralian munitions industry possible is
never let fall officially, “Politics” are still
too important.
Labor is not on its own in its sales-
manship of phony propositions, but it
has a long lead on the others. It has
set a standard -of public brain-scrambling
and miseducation that has had wide-
spread influences. In times that were
“austere” long before some Government
“adviser” thought of the word, it rushed
in with costly concessions in the matter of
civil pensions, working hours and over-
time rates —it had an already tremen-
dously costly war to finance —and it has
boasted about its attention to “social
security” when national security was the
grave and obvious problem.
It is not surprising that anarchist
influences are strong in Australia. Strikes
and job-control are rampant, especially in
N. S. Wales. In Government —and other
—munition factories “quotas” beyond
which a man may not produce—imposed
by union officials —are an infuriating im-
pediment to the war effort, as well as
resulting in the working of costly over-
time because of the lag in production.
In one vital factory the high rate of work
done by a number of blind men was
the subject of union criticism. So
far as unionists are concerned, undis-
ciplined selfishness has been an all-too-
prominent feature of their war effort.
The A.C.T.U. has repeatedly urged the
granting of a “war-loading” to all rates
of unionists’ pay in addition to increases
that come automatically with the rising
cost of living! Whatever the inarticulate
rank and file may really think in these
matters —and it is impossible to believe
that Australian workers in the mass are
as selfishly self-destructive as their union
bosses make them appear to be —such is
the grip unionism holds on Australian
workmen that they have so far had to
dance to the union boss’s tune. Any in-
dividualism has been severely dealt with,
sometimes in circumstances that cast un-
pleasant reflections on the Government
itself. Union “discipline” often amounts
to persecution of an extraordinarily cir-
cumscribing nature.
While the flower of the nation is
doing its duty on service pay and con-
ditions and another section —the employ-
ing class —is in the aggregate on a re-
duced income and subject to the heaviest
taxation in the world, trade-unionists on
the whole are now receiving more money,
after the payment of war taxes, than they
did before September, 1939. They are,
indeed, the profiteers of this war, and
they have been pushed along in this
direction by political bribery and oppor-
tunism. They have been encouraged to
take money they have not earned and to
avoid the burdens that are just as much
theirs as anyone else’s.
Under the cloak of National Security
Regulations and the like the Government
has laid the foundation of some sort of
“new order” now and for the post-war
period. It is not intended here to infer that
the National Security Act was not neces-
sary—on the contrary, war-time emer-
gency powers, legitimately used, are
absolutely essential to the proper conduct
of the war. But much has been done in
the way of socialisation that has been a
political experiment and expedient, with
no relation, except of a damaging nature,
to the war effort. The high wages and
overtime that are going to wage-earners
are swelling the accounts in savings
banks, as well as filling private hoards
with millions of pounds’ worth of paper
money. The note issue that is held by
the public will soon approach four times
the amount held pre-war. Some of this
is because of the needs of a larger float-
ing population, but the greater part is
created by a desire to escape Government
attention to savings and earnings. And
notwithstanding all this money at wage-
earners’ disposal, their response to the
Liberty Loan —there was “perhaps
400,000 subscribers” all told—was sicken-
ing.
Because of the votes involved, trade-
unionism has been put on a pedestal in
this country. The essentials of our exis-
tence have been trampled on by poli-
ticians eager in their haste to make every
post in this war a political winning-post.
So many “1941-42 model” unskilled
tradesmen have become members of
unions without the usual apprenticeship
that the old hands, in many cases, have
been swamped. Never has the essential
service of finance been so prostituted to
politics, nor ability and experience
brushed so roughly and rudely aside.
Only political upstarts and go-getters of
little or no substance or intellect could
have done such gross disservice to their
country.
The worst feature of the whole thing
has been that scores of thousands of
Australians have had their brains
scrambled and their morale undermined.
Tartshop politicians have endeavored to
bring up a race of tartshop Australians,
and out of the waste of war we are
treated to the incredible spectacle of an
army of wage-earners growing “richer”
while their country grows poorer! It
only means that injustice is being done
to the overtaxed and overworked and
those in the front line, and that the story
may be a sad one for everyone when the
inevitable inflation that is being bred has
the opportunity of getting in its disrup-
tive and job-destroying work. The good
unionist and the spoiled children of the
war will suffer together in such a case,
and the soldiers who fought for their
country and those who paid their share
of the cost willingly will suffer with them.
Australia has been asleep too long to the
dangers within its own framework. It
is time it woke up and did something
about it.
An old Labor politician who called
into The Bulletin the other day blamed
what he called the militant Laborite and
the bad capitalist for most of the indus-
trial strife in Australia. There is a lot
in it. So far as Capital is concerned, it
has never chosen to affiliate itself so closely
politically as Labor —probably because it
has always had to rely more on its own
initiative and enterprise than Labor. The
time has come when closer co-operation
between wage-paying interests wouldn’t
be a bad thing, not for the purpose of
“fighting” Labor, but with the object of
saving all Australia from the wasteful and
delaying friction created by militant union
bosses and slimy-tongued politicians. One
reason for the way Communistic influ-
ences are playing the' fool with Aus-
tralian industry today is that wage-payers
show little sign of unity or collective en-
thusiasm in the most straightforward mat-
ters of commonsense and fairplay. The
selfish small-sized capitalist is often more
in political evidence than the great pro-
ductive and employing organiser. Pro-
duction deserves far greater political rep-
resentation than it possesses at present.
And it has an obligation to stand up
against the forces of economic friction.
Every class has its responsibilities to the
nation as a whole.


Divorce Notice.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF VICTORIA.
In Divorce.
TO ELSIE MAY BALL formerly of Arthurton
Road Northcote in the State of Victoria.—
TAKE NOTICE that your husband HENRY
GEORGE BALL has instituted Divorce pro-
ceedings (No. 213 of 1943) against you on the
grounds of desertion for three years and up-
wards Unless you enter an appearance in the
Prothonotary’s Office of the Supreme Court
Melbourne on or before the 13th day of May
1943 and file an answer in the said office on or
before the 24th day of May 1943 judgment may
be given against you.—J. W. SACKVILLE,
LL.B., 379 Collins Street, Melbourne, Solicitor
for the Petitioner. AND IT IS FURTHER
ORDERED that the Respondent have leave to
enter an appearance herein on or before the
13th day of May 1943 and file an answer herein
on or before the 24th day of May 1943.
Dr. SHELDON'S
»
bring quick relief
from
RHEUMATISM
Dr. Sheldon’s Gin Pills assist the Kidneys in their
action; help them to banish all excess uric acid, thus
bringing prompt relief from Rheumatism.
DIRECTIONS for faking
Dr. Sheldon’s GIN PILLS
Take one or two Gin
Pills with a glassful of
water either before or
after meals, and another
when retiring. It is im-
portant to drink plenty
of water or barley-
water.
.
m
m
-
Ample supplies obtainable from all Chemists
Dr. S H E L D O N'S
Small Size - - 1/9
Large Size - - 2/9
©ass s>aaa
IDl* ti
White Wings
The dazzling white of lull sails and seagulls' pinions as
they catch the sun in high relief against the wine-dark
water seems the ideal of whiteness. Yet if is illusory,
and the purity of sails or feathers is far surpassed in the
standards of whiteness in fabrics demanded by the public.
Textile processing is indeed a highly technical business, in
which the research and service of the chemist is of the
first importance.
It is to the chemical industry that the laundcrcr, the
textile manufacturer and the wool scouring industry,
look for supply of suitable detergents.
The household soaps which we use for cleanliness of
clothes, homes and bodies, largely depend in their manu-
facture on soda ash and caustic soda. Those raw
materials known as alkalies were at one time wholly im-
ported, but are now made in Australia.
Kindred products arc soda bicarbonate, essential for
aeration and cooking; and calcium chloride, valuable in
refrigeration for preservation of perishable foodstuffs.
The glass industry, which provides essential material for
the construction of all modern buildings, and hygienic con-
tainers for foodstuffs, is a very large consumer of soda ash.
IMPERIAL CHEMICAL INDUSTRIES
OF AUSTRALIA & NEW ZEALAND LTD.
ICIAN2I
A 3.16
Gold as a Store of Value
From A. T. Traversi, consulting actu-
ary, Sydney;—
Your articles on finance are much
appreciated; but please permit a word
upon that of B. 7/4/’43 regarding gold,
which refers to the long history of gold
“as a medium of exchange,” and says “its
value in this regard has been more tradi-
tional than scientific.”
But is it legitimate to look only at one
aspect? Is not gold also a store of
value? If we start from the point
of view that gold is a superb
store of value, and, by its many other
unique qualities, at the same time a
measure of value, a medium of exchange
and a currency that “runs” across every
international boundary, it is easy to
realise that neither tradition nor super-
stition is needed to account for its value.
When, in Homeric times, 130 grains of
gold, and in India, 700 b.c., 140 grains,
was the price of an ox, and when the
Aztecs in ancient Mexico used quills of
gold dust as a currency, it surely was
not because of tradition or superstition.
In at least two of these instances gold
had not even been coined. One is re-
minded of the naive remark of Professor
Marshal! that “in early times it was com-
monly said that the value of gold and
silver is artificial.”
International trade is, anyhow, only
one sphere of gold. What other basis
than gold is in mind for long-dated con-
tracts, such as those of life assurance or
superannuation funds, extending over
periods up to 100 years? Can these
different functions of currency be dis-
sociated from one another? What mar-
vellous modern conception is to be bodied
forth to perform all those functions of
gold? Without gold or the like any paper
money whatever must necessarily be in-
convertible ; and, as you well know, no
inconvertible paper currency has ever yet
maintained its value.
If currency is to be orientated solely
to the concept of a medium of exchange,
then good-bye to life assurance. The
League of Nations has seriously con-
cerned itself with this very problem.
Apropos of the flight of gold to
America, the mote in our own eye is in-
dicated by Gresham’s Law, known even
in Roman times, that bad currency drives
out good. Confession is good for the
soul!
In spite of official figures indicating
oversubscription, the fact must remain
that the £lOO million Liberty Loan was
in essence a failure. At most 400,000
applicants put money into it, and one
of those (the A.M.P.) put up as much as
£5,000,000; it is quite clear that the
majority of trade-unionists left the prob-
em of war finance severely alone. In
the case of the Austerity Loan there were
451,597 applicants for £B2 million cash,
and that was a far better public effort
than on the present occasion, though it,
too, was well short of the ideal and the
possible. There are 2,780,000 people in
Australia who among them earn £590
million a year, though all are on £8 a
week or less. They represent 70 p.c.
of all the incomes in the Commonwealth.
They have not yet done their share in
financing this war, even though tax rates
did go up on April 1.
* * * »
Spender, M.H.R., Commonwealth Treas-
urer before he became Minister for De-
fence in Menzies’s time, has attacked the
methods used to push the Liberty Loan
programme, referring to them as “high-
pressure salesmanship and theatrical per-
formances.” He added that one trouble
in Australia’s war-time financial difficul-
ties was that economic advisers behind
the Government were compelled to play
the dual game of finance and politics. The
experts were fast becoming politicians.
Spender seems to be just about dead right.
As a matter of fact, it is a pity that he
himself didn’t stick to the job of Treas-
urer when the U.A.P.-U.C.P. coalition
was in office, denying himself that purple
patch which won him the title of the
Baron of Bardia.
* * * *
The Commonwealth’s Treasury-bill debt
in Australia on February 28 had reached
the figure of £248.7 million, up £lBO mil-
lion in 12 months. There is another £4
million owing in London.
* * * *
Some business interests are concerned
about the prices ceiling and other price-
control activity recently introduced, on
the ground that unless the workings of
the Prices Branch in this regard are
speeded up a concern might go broke
before assistance in the way of price
iclief or subsidy was forthcoming. It
has been suggested that the payment of-
subsidies be completely divorced from
“the question of profit regulation or the
rationalisation of business,”
* * * *
Special deposits placed by the trading
banks with the Commonwealth Bank now
total £95 million. These are the “sur-
plus investible funds” taken from the
banking system by the Government
under the banking regulations introduced
on Nov. 27, 1941—less than two months
after Labor took office and about a week
before Japan entered the war. A policy
of restriction on advances to industry
and private persons was laid down, with
periodic inspections to see that the plan
was carried out. Since the regulations
were introduced deposits with the trading
banks have increased £5B million, while
£39 million has been worked off ad-
vances. The money made available by
both these movements has principally
found its way to the Commonwealth
Bank, from where it has quickly passed
to the Treasury, which has been handing
a great quantity of Treasury KDU’s to the
central bank. At April 12 the holding
of Government securities had risen to
£205 million, an increase of £lOO mil-
lion over 12 months and £139 million
since Labor took office. In the note-
issue department of the central bank the
increase in Government securities, etc.,
has been an additional £52 million since
October, 1941. The note-issue section
has been able to do this because of the
present desire by some people to hoard
notes rather than to keep money in banks.
The issue is now up to £133.8 million,
of which about £llB million is in the
hands of the people, whereas about £32
million was usual prior to the war. The
really great expansion in the note issue
has taken place over the past 18 months.
* * * *
Winston Churchill has remarked that
he could not understand how Canada had
been able to do what she had done. “It
is beyond me,” he said. Canada, eco-
nomically and industrially, is the shining
light of the Empire at present. Appar-
ently its more interfering and stupid poli-
ticians are confined to such provinces as
Alberta. Federal Finance Minister
Ilsley has done such a good job that he is
tipped to get Canada’s highest political
post in due course. Finance is given a
high place in the war-time organisation
of Canada; in Australia it is the play-
thing of politicians. Mr. Dedman
has boasted that the number of bank
branches closed on his say-so will soon
amount to one in six. But he is a shifty
politician, and has been known in the
past to blame the banks for closing
branches when public convenience was
upset sufficiently to have audible reper-
cussions in Canberra.
* * * *
There is talk of a further subsidy to
the dairying industry of £4,000,000 a year,
which will be in addition to the £2,000,000
already granted. The industry has been
hard hit by the costs and man-power
position, and output is below normal.
Also, there is an election in prospect.
* * * tH
It was one of those Commonwealth
“works” departments where businessmen
brought in as “executives” are clashing
with the true-blue civil service. The
executive ordered a number of refrigera-
tors for a country works camp after see-
ing three tenders. The bills came in, and
there was a protest from the audit de-
partment. Why weren’t at least six ten-
ders called, as provided? The executive
asked, in turn, whether the refrigerators
weren’t satisfactory or whether the price
wasn’t right. “Oh, that aspect of it is
quite all right—quite all right; but the
trouble is —you make your decisions too
quickly .”
* * * *
Estimated world output of aluminium
and magnesium in 1943 is put at 2,500,000
tons, compared with 600,000 tons in 1938.
The National City Bank of New York
looks for a big demand for these products
even in the post-war period, to the detri-
ment of tin and other metals. The tin
position is likely to be worsened by the
fact that Japanese occupation of Malaya
has forced additional tin production in
Bolivia, Nigeria, Belgian Congo, Austra-
lia, South Africa and Argentina. Tinned
containers are being replaced in many
cases by glass, paper and plastics, and
new tinning processes are expected to
reduce the amount of tin per container
by at least a third.


THE SERVICE MAN
From Defence to Attack.
“Ek Dum”: The fronts of the South-
west Pacific zone are experiencing a lull
which masks important military and
naval movement and construction. Both
sides are girding their loins. To the be-
ginning of the present week the enemy
had made no offensive move since his
three attacks on Oro and Milne bays and
on Moresby.
Allied operations last week were on a
small scale compared with previous
weeks. Though raids were widespread
they were for the most part as much
reconnaissances as attacks.
There were only two large operations.
On the night of April 18 Koepang
(Timor) and its airfield at Penfoel suf-
fered an assault —the heaviest launched
against any objective in the n.-w. Austra-
lian area —by three waves of Hudsons
following leading ’planes which dropped
incendiaries. There was fierce ack-ack
fire, but the bomb-loads found their
targets. Visibility was good. All the
raiders returned.
The second heavy raid was made by
Liberators, which carried 21 tons of
bombs from the Australian coast nearly
800 miles to Kendari, in the Celebes..
They smashed five twin-engined ’planes
found on the ground there, destroyed five
out of 20 attacking fighters, and, having
wrecked several buildings and beaten off
opposition, returned without suffering
loss.
There were 24 minor raids along the
whole northern front, and several ships
were bombed by small units. One 6000-
tonner was sunk at Wewak by three
direct hits and six near misses. Later, no
shipping was to be seen in Wewak har-
bor, but at the week-end a heavy recon-
naissance ’plane attacked a large convoy,
escorted by warships, well to the north of
the port. Five “O” fighters were shot
down by another heavy in 30 minutes.
The U.S, War Department announced
on April 21 that in 15 days of aerial
duelling in the S.-w. Pacific the enemy
had lost 128 ’planes destroyed or dam-
aged, 19 warships and cargo vessels sunk
or damaged, and 12 other ships possibly
damaged. The Allies had eight ’planes
destroyed and 17 damaged.
Despite the strenuous representations
of Dr, Evatt, reinforced at this end by,
among others, General Blarney, Washing-
ton does not seem to be awake to the
fact that the air war in the South-west
Pacific is still on a puny scale in relation
to its potential. In any case, air fight-
ing cannot defeat Japan. It can merely
fend the Japanese off and act as an acces-
sory to —though a vital one—a substan-
tive offensive by land and sea forces.
So far air power has not prevented the
enemy from widening and strengthening
his grip on the New Guinea area. There
has been cruel fighting, with the sacri-
fice of a full division in casualties in
Papua alone. Dr, Evatt has revealed that,
out of an Australian battalion of 800,
there were only two officers and 21 men
in the line after the clearing up of Gona.
Big sea battles have been won in the
Coral Sea, the Solomons and Bismarcks,
and in isolated operations many enemy
ships have been sunk and many enemy
’planes shot out of the skies.
But 15 months after the first landing
at Rabaul General Blarney can still de-
clare that “in the air and on land the
Japanese forces are about twice as great
in the northern islands as when they be-
gan their southern advance in the New
Guinea area.” He added pertinently:
“We subscribe to the theory that Hitler
must be beaten, but not at the cost of
losing this great Allied base of Austra-
lia.”
Japanese naval strength the general did
not mention. The enemy has complete
command of the sea from New Guinea to
Japan.
“With 5 per cent, of the British and
United States aerial output we could
attack,” said General Blarney. There is
no arguing against that, but such an
attack could be only preliminary and de-
fensive. It would not assure the naval
command of the seas out of normal
aerial fighter range. It would bring the
Allies only a short step nearer to cutting
firmly-held Jap sea communication lines
over 3000 miles of ocean.
Not till the Allies have recaptured the
Philippines and/or a strong foothold on
the Middle China or Russian coast can
even the basic preliminary operations for
blockading and beating Japan be entered
upon.
To counter Allied Pacific operations on
the present or any imminent scale, all
the enemy needs to do is to sit tight,
expanding his conquests as he has done
in the past year and binding up the
scratches inflicted by air attacks, until
his strength has become sufficient for
him to advance. And his power to build
his strength in the south cannot be
seriously interfered with until his com-
munications between Japan and the north-
ern Australian fringe are harassed or cut
by large-scale naval action by ships, sub-
marines and aircraft, operations for
which a base much nearer to Japan than
any now held is imperative.
Forward in Tunisia.
“Ek Dum”: The preliminary battle
for the Tunisian siege area has begun
amid the mixed scenery of precipice and
peak. The attacks all aim at the control
of valley or gap entrances.
The Eighth Army is ranged across the
narrow coastal belt in the Enfidaville
region. Its line is athwart the main north-
ward road and rail. Its left is perched
among the half-dozen difficult peaks of
the Zaghouan mountains, which rise
about 4000 feet.
The enemy defences run westward
through these ranges, crossing the
Majerda River to the south of Bou Arada,
whose approaches they cover from the
five or six peaks of the Kifene-a-Susa
group of mountains, thence apparently fol-
lowing another fencelike range on the
western bank of the Majerda to Medjez
el Bab, crossing the Beja road close to
the town, and following the Majerda
Range (again its peaks rise about 4000
feet) some miles to the west of Mateur.
This series of ranges makes formid-
able defences, but it needs only one
thorough break at any point to turn the
fight for the whole of them into a second-
ary affair and ultimately into a massive
cleaning-up operation. Once a capital
Allied force has penetrated the main Axis
perimeter, Rommel (or Arnim) must
retire again.
There were several points into which
the First Army or the Eighth Army or
their Allies might break—-the Enfidaville
gap; the valley between Zaghouan and
Pont du Fahs; the Majerda valley at
Medjez el Bab ; the valley between Mt.
Anntra and Tabourba, and the north
coastal route, via Tabarca and Djebel
Abido. Each of these approaches is
served with a railway and a motor road.
The nature of the country is varied.
Round Bou Arada there are long sweeps
of valley and bare mountainside, like bits
of Scotland ; but some other bits of coun-
try through which the British armies and
their allies must fight their way are scored
with precipices and ravines.
Transport Attacked
The week’s fighting opened with a
heavy Allied air raid on Axis transport.
The new Spitfires and U.S. Warhawks
had the luck to get among thick clouds
of Ju 52’s with comparatively light fighter
cover.
R.A.F. and R.A.A.F. fighters have
always found the sight of the lumbering
Ju 52 welcome. Though they are what
Air Vice-Marshal Arthur Coningham de-
scribes as “somewhat coarse game,” they
are extremely valuable to the enemy. And
no ’plane has a more consistent habit of
falling into the sea in the presence of an
offensive force, unless it be the Ju 87 —
the much-vaunted Stuka, the boo-boo
boys’ pride and joy. One Australian
outfit some time ago bagged 14 out of
17 Ju 52’s.
The Spitfires and the Warhawks were
not behindhand. Though the enemy's
convoy had Messerschmitt escorts, it was
claimed that 58 of the transports were
shot down, some of them crash-landing
on the Sicilian beaches. This represented
nearly 50 per cent, of the convoy. Almost
all the damage to them was done by the
Warhawks, the Spitfires having taken
charge of the Messerschmitt escorts, of
which 16 were shot down. Later 20 Me
six-engined transports were destroyed.
Again the Spitfires saw to the fighting
escorts. Raids on Italian bases were con-
tinued ; Naples had six in 12 days.
Meantime the First Army, attacking
after a thunderous bombardment, pushed
along the hills north-east of Medjez el
Bab, and the French on the right kept
up the pressure in the Pont du Fahs
region.
The rearmed French have done a good
job. From the moment they went into
action they have shown dash, daring and
tenacity. They have the advantage that
they are fighting on their heath and have
intensive knowledge of the country.
The enemy, well dug-in behind fright-
ening rings of minefields and gun posi-
tions, showed no lack of initiative. He
threw heavy counter-attacks against
Allied positions, playing his old game of
seeking for a weak spot. One of the
heaviest of his thrusts was made on the
night of April 20 against First Army posi-
tions in the Medjez el Bab sector. The
fight was carried on in bright moonlight.
The enemy, using between 60 and 80
tanks and perhaps 5000 men, succeeded
in enveloping an advanced formation.
Even though he was met by heavy
organised artillery fire, one helping was
not enough for him, and he came a
second time, retiring only when he had
received a mauling so severe that there
was no other alternative left to him. He
had lost 27 tanks and 500 prisoners and
heaps of dead.
The First Army pushed forward
towards Bou Arada, but not without
cost. At the week-end, Arnim’s men
had ceased trying to push it out of its
gains, which were represented by an ad-
vance of six miles on a considerable front.
A large dent had been driven into the
Axis front between Medjez and Bou
Arada. It had been made by tank-ham-
mering during which 40 Axis tanks were
knocked out. It was not a break-through
to the plain, but it threatened to become
one.
Here the main central battle seemed to
be developing about six miles n.-e. of
Medjez.
The Eighth at Work
Meanwhile, the Eighth Army, with
French on its left flank among the
hills, was tackling the Enfidaville gap.
The French pinned the Axis right
flank in the hills while ,the Scots, the
Geordies, the Gurkhas and some of their
neighbors put all their exertions into the
few miles of country next the coast.
Their job was somewhat like cleaning
out a giant rabbit warren dug in rock,
in which every rabbit was completely
surrounded by hidden mines and booby
traps and armed to the teeth. Their
attacks were preceded by a heavy bar-
rage—the Germans’ story is that 50,000
shells were fired.
Like all ancient centres of habitation
round the Mediterranean, the hills about
Enfidaville are honeycombed with caves
and passages. Out of these the enemy
had to be blown piecemeal with hand
grenades or dug out in sections with the
bayonet. The toughest of these hills in
the first advance area was that of Tak-
rouna, in the Enfidaville environs. Much
of it was sheer-sided, and in its bat-
holes and crannies hundreds of Germans
hid, while an ancient Berber castle, .650 ft.
above the sea, served as a useful obser-
vation post.
In places the moonlighters among
Montgomery’s bayonet men had to climb
the precipitous slopes in long human
chains, protected here and there by an
overhanging cliff. The mule came into
his own.
Before the week-end the hill and
country abutting were in British hands.
The capture of the Tairouan position
forced an enemy withdrawal for over
12 miles on the coastal wing.
The Eighth Army was on the move.
So was Anderson’s First Army. The
French on the north coast had made
several miles’ progress east of Cape
Serrat. And Patton’s Second Corps of
Americans, which had been on the Eighth
Army’s flank around El Guettar during
the Mareth battle, now were pushing be-
tween the northern French and the First
Army towards Mateur.
Neither Berlin nor Rome seemed to have
any thought that there was a chance of
ultimate success for the Axis in Tunisia.
One of the official commentators in Ber-
lin spoke of the tremendous superiority
of the Allies, both on land and in air,
and particularly in munitions.
Berlin’s Air Worry
The constant air bombardment, the
harrying of supplies and the regular
blasting of Italian and Sicilian ports
seemed to be causing worry and irrita-
tion to the High Command. And it was
obvious that about the least popular race
in Germany were Highlanders.
Apparently in the hope of diverting
those stern fellows from their fell pur-
poses by worrying their minds, the Luft-
waffe, in the middle of the week’s fight-
ing, sent a couple of waves of bombers
to blast Aberdeen, which has no mili-
tary objectives worth the name. The
granite city was considerably knocked
about and there were casualties. There
will be some extra casualties in Tunisia
to pay for it.
On the Eve in Russia.
“Ek Dum”: Except on the Kuban
front, Russian campaigning continued
to the week-end to be governed by the
thaw. Regarding the Kuban —where
three months ago false hopes were
excited by persistent unofficial reports
that 250,000 Germans were “desperately
trying to escape across the Kerch Straits”
—Moscow reported that enemy strength
had been built up to about 10 divisions,
including two or three armored divisions.
North of Novorossisk, in the swampy,
rain-sodden and partly-flooded terrain
opposite the Taman Peninsula, there was
see-saw fighting, each side claiming local
victories of some dimensions.
The Russians reported that constant
German counter-attacks were being
driven off and that the enemy was being
forced to retreat. The Germans, declar-
ing that weather still precluded large-
scale operations, announced that Soviet
positions were being penetrated and
hinted that major action was in the offing.
It was asserted that in severe fighting
south of Novorossisk Red Army attacks
had failed.
A sizable air battle was proceeding
late in the week. The Russians claimed
to have brought down 98 ’planes in two
days; the enemy, that 77 Soviet ’planes
had fallen in one day.
According to Berlin, the Donetz floods
reached their peak on April 20. The
terrain was still unsuitable for large-scale
fighting, but the roads were drying
rapidly. On April 21 Hitler’s G.H.Q.
said there was little activity along the
rest of the mainland front; in the cen-
tral area, large parts of the Russian
positions were under water, but the floods
were subsiding.
The most important activity on the
eastern front was the bombing of Baltic
ports by the R.A.F., a warning to the
enemy that he could expect close large-
scale co-operation by the R.A.F. with the
Soviet forces —which, incidentally, have
been bombing East Prussian towns. The
Skoda raid, assailing one of the principal
sources of artillery supply for the eastern
front, began the R.A.F. open season in
the east. Swiss reports declare that 800
persons were killed in that attack and that
it will take three to five months to put
the plant in running order again.
Reports of this kind need to be read
with caution. Obviously, they could
help the enemy if his assailant were per-
suaded that he had completely achieved
his objectives when actually he had not.
The Rostock raid fell a day or two
before the anniversary of the first of the
four attacks which put the port out of
action for a time last year. In last year’s
raids 750 tons of bombs were dropped in
four nights. The scale of this year’s
attacks can be measured by the fact that
39 bombers were lost in the two raids
on Rostock and Stettin. Rostock is
about 450 miles from the nearest point
on the English coast and Stettin about
550 miles. In effect, more remote than
Berlin, which the medium, fast Mos-
quitoes can now reach.
The massing of German troops in
Hungary and Bulgaria and the general
activity in that area point to enemy
fears that Turkey (recently visited by
Sir Henry Maitland Wilson, British
G.0.C.) is about to enter the war (an-
other Turko-German trade agreement has
to be considered in this connection), that
invasion of the Balkans by the Allies is
likely, or even that the Axis leaders con-
template forestalling action by an attack
on Turkey.
Allied action in Turkey would be a
real menace to the German southern
flank on the eastern front and put a new
complexion on the Russian campaign.
Japs Murder U.S. Fliers.
“Ek Dum”: The American Army raid
on Tokyo on April 18 last year has had
consequences which have sent a thrill of
horror through the English-speaking
world.
Described by David Lawrence, one of
the soberest American writers, as “a stunt,
lacking military importance,” though dar-
ing and heroically carried out, the raid
was made with 16 Mitchell bombers.
Hundreds of bombers used against
German cities from short range, and with
heavy loads of up to eight tons of bombs
per machine, have failed to put the cities
out of action. These 16 machines had
a total load capacity of not more than
30-odd tons, and were assigned to attack
not one but three great cities, one oi
which has a considerably larger popu-
lation than Berlin. Moreover, valuable
aircraft-carriers were risked at a tune
when they were most needed, along wit
the lives of some of the most experience
U.S. fliers. ,
All that could be achieved by such a
raid, outside some relatively minor da -
age, was to serve notice on the enem
to put his anti-aircraft defences m order.
The bombers took off from the U>
aircraft-carrier Hornet, since tos


CD
am
defence of the South-west Pacific, They
were manned by volunteer crews who
had been trained in the greatest
secrecy. With such a load on board, the
Hornet was naturally unable to use her
own fighters for protection, so other
carriers had to be sent as a covering
force.
Carriers and accompanying craft were
at sea a fortnight before the approaches
to Japan were reached. They met and
sank a destroyer and two fishing boats
about 350 miles from the Japanese coast.
The raiders left the ship about 250 miles
from the coast, and there must have been
some bad moments in getting the heavy
bombers off an 800 ft. flight deck —their
normal operation calls for an 800-yard
runway.
At first it was given out that all ’planes
had returned from the raid ; but after-
wards losses were acknowledged. The
Japanese claimed to be displaying the
wreckage of some bombers, and it was
admitted that some of the airmen were
prisoners in Japan. Tokyo, for its part,
announced on October 19 that captives
had been tried and punished, alleging that
they had “deliberately bombed schools
and hospitals in contravention of all the
principles of humanity and civilisation.”
On the anniversary of the raid Japa-
nese spokesmen made a great song about
the raiders’ “horrors” and “brutalities.”
They failed to mention the barbarous
immolation of civilians in Chungking,
Singapore, Darwin, Calcutta and various
congested and flimsy Burmese cities which
were subjected to the most horrible
ordeals and still are being subjected to
them—-Rangoon lost 2000 defenceless citi-
zens in one terrible attack.
Tokyo on April 19 asserted that four
of the prisoners taken had been tried and
“severely punished.” A sinister addition
was made—in view of his part in attack-
ing civilian objectives, a fifth airman was
not being treated as a prisoner of war.
In a burst of savagery it was declared
that the same treatment would be meted
out to future raiders.
Immediately afterwards, “with feelings
of the deepest horror,” Mr. Roosevelt an-
nounced “the barbarous execution by the
Japanese Government of some members
of the United States forces who fell into
Japanese hands as an incident of war-
fare.” '
The President referred to a Japanese
Government communication to the effect
that the death sentence had been pro-
nounced after trial of the fliers. For “the
larger number” the sentence had been
commuted, but “certain accused were
executed.” A protest, Mr. Roosevelt
concluded, has been lodged through the
Swiss Minister, and the Japanese Gov-
ernment has been notified that all persons
who have participated in the diabolical
crimes will be held personally and offi-
cially responsible and in due course will
be brought to justice.
Five members of a bomber crew came
down near Khabarovsk in Siberia. A
pressman asked Mr. Roosevelt whether
their ’plane, taken over by the Russians,
would be debited as part of lease-lend
aid to the Soviets. There was, of course,
no answer, but the five airmen are still
interned by the Power which is receiving
such immense supplies of war materials,
carried at such awful cost in lives, ships
and cargoes, from the U.S.A. and Britain.
There will be no reprisals for the
Tokyo outrage. Reprisals are not in the
Anglo-American tradition. The victims
wall be avenged by legitimate processes
of war: avenged by the strong sons of
America, and their Australian brothers-
in-arms will help.
The Sea War Reviewed.
“Ek Bum”: Figures issued by the
Truman Committee of the United States
Senate gave startling evidence of the fury
and seriousness of the U-boat war, which
Berlin has persistently pronounced the
crucial part of the conflict —“the only
part of the world war through which
Britain can be beaten to her knees in
which our hope of victory lies” (Admiral
Liitzow).
No official figures of submarine sink-
ings of Allied ships had been issued since
July, 1941. Up till that month 7,360,000
tons had been sunk, against 12,850,000
tons during the last war. In that war the
U-boat campaign began at full strength
in March, 1915, but the convoy system
was not instituted for merchant ships till
May, 1917 —the month after the enemy
had destroyed 840,000 tons of shipping,
including 543,000 tons of British vessels.
When the last Admiralty figures were
issued (July, 1941) sinkings had fallen to
under 164,000 tons a month.
The Truman report shows that
12.000. tons deadweight were de-
stroyed in 1942, equal to something less
than 8,000,000 gross register tons, or more
than 600,000 tons a month—this despite
the use of the convoy system since the
beginning of the war.
Mr. Churchill, who always has been
an optimist about the U-boat war, said
on November 12, 1941, that the position
had “greatly improved.” In four months
to October 31, he reported, nearly
1.000. gross registered tons of enemy
Shipping had been destroyed ; but while
2.000. tons of British shipping had
been sunk in the four months to June 30,
We lost less than 750,000 tons, or an
average of 180,000 tons per month, in the
four months ended Oct. 31.... We must
not count the danger past, but the facts are
more favorable than those represented by
the actual reduction If we are able to
get through the year, we shall find our-
selves with a good supply of ships in 1942,
and if the war against the U-boats and
against enemy aircraft should continue to
prosper as it has done —about this there
can be no guarantee —it seems that the
Freedom Powers will be possessed of large
quantities of ships in 1943, which will
enable overseas operations to take place
utterly beyond British resources at present.
Admiralty figures for March-June sink-
ings had not coincided with the Prime
Minister’s: March, 348,118 ; April,
346,208 ; May, 352,289 ; June, 228,284
tons.
Three months later, on Feb. 24, 1942,
Mr. Churchill said:
Our shipping losses since the outbreak
of war have been very heavy, and in the
last two months there has been a very
serious increase in those losses.
German Claims
As 1942 proceeded, the Germans
month after month reported destruction
in individual convoys of gross registered
tonnage sometimes running into six
figures. . .
For September last year they claimed
United Nations’ losses from German
effort alone at 1,012,700 tons. November
sinkings they placed at 1,035,200 tons, of
which 149 ships, totalling 955,000 tons,
were said to have been destroyed by Ü-
boats —the month was that of El Alamein
and the Allied North African landing.
They claimed as well to have sunk three
cruisers, six destroyers, two corvettes and
a submarine, and to have damaged
several other warships. The figures, it
was asserted, did not include heavy losses
of merchant ships and transports by the
Soviet Union.
Subsequent sinkings claimed by the
German High Command were: De-
cember, 600,000 tons ; January, 1943, “at
least 522,000 gross registered tons”;
February, 576,000 registered tons, includ-
ing 543,000 tons (82 ships) sunk by Ü-
boats, 25,000 tons by M.T.Bs. and the
balance by the Luftwaffe. These figures
were supplemented by mention of three
cruisers and various other vessels alleged
to be destroyed. In the first week in
January, Berlin alleged that 1942 Allied
losses in the seas reached by U-boats had
totalled 9,000,000 gross registered tons.
Italian and Japanese destruction was not
included.
These figures and Hitler’s boast in his
Bierkall speech in Munich early in
November, 1942, seemed fantastic —
Hitler’s yam was that 24,000,000 tons of
Allied shipping had been sent to the
bottom since 1939. But on April 15
Berlin alleged that all Allied shipping
wrecked from September, 1939, to March,
1943, amounted to 30,000,000 tons.
In naval circles the position was bad
enough, whatever the full truth, to cause
great unease. Vice-Admiral Percy Nelles,
of the Royal Canadian Navy, said a few
days after the issue of the German esti-
mates for 1942 and of a warning from
Berlin that under-water operations would
“cover the whole of the Seven Seas on
an unprecedented scale” in 1943:
We have reason to believe that the Ger-
•- man ' U-boat threat is increasing. Our
considered opinion is that the net gain
is something more than 10 U-boats a
month.
The Admiral warned Canada of the
probable renewal of German submarine
activity in the St. Lawrence estuary.
A month or so later Mr. Churchill said
that the U-boat war was being “given
priority in all Anglo-American plans”
and that this had been “explicitly re-
affirmed” at Casablanca:
Progress is being made against the
U-boat. We are more than holding our
own. Nevertheless, our losses are very
heavy and are prolonging the war. We
have had few losses in -troop convoys;
out of 3,000,000 men transported only
1348 have been lost. And the rate of
destruction of U-boats has steadily im-
proved.
So has Hitler’s capacity to build, by all
accounts and results, and the real gravity
of the situation was hidden in an inno-
cent figure which Mr. Churchill quoted
as a preliminary to an assurance that
strong escorts were proving the secret of
the U-boats’ diminishing destructive
power. In the last six months, he said,
Anglo-American and Canadian construc-
tion had exceeded the United Nations’
losses at sea by 1,250,000 tons.
This construction was scheduled to be
about 5,000,000 tons.
A Gigantic Task
Britain’s task at sea the same
Britain which Russia’s Mr. Maisky is
urging to “pull its weight” in 1943—is a
gigantic one, and its marine wounds do
not end with merchant ships and lives
lost and damaged.
On March 4 British naval losses since
September 3, 1939, were given in the
House of Lords:
Capital ships, five; aircraft carriers,
seven; cruisers, 25; armed merchant
cruisers, 14; destroyers, 94; corvettes, 14;
submarines, 44; monitor, one; sloops,
eight; minesweepers, 22; trawlers, 156;
drifters, 14; minelayer, one; yachts, three;
gunboats, five; cutters, three; and a num-
ber of small vessels.
Britain keeps a daily average of about
600 naval vessels at sea. The R.N.’s losses
in convoying goods to Murmansk alone
up to February 28 had amounted to two
cruisers, 10 destroyers, six smaller war-
ships, many other little ships and num-
bers of British lives.
So great has been the British effort in
naval construction, despite the continual
and world-wide demands of John Bull’s
Allies, that Mr. Alexander was able
proudly to announce that in spite of
losses the R.N. was as strong in capital
ships as at the beginning of the war and
nearly as strong in cruisers, and that of
destroyers and submarines there were a
good many more than in September,
1939.
What has been done with “the 2000
British ships always at sea and the 400
always in the danger zone” has been told
in actuality on almost every front. The
Britain which in July, 1940, had only 50
tanks, 200 guns—some museum pieces—
and a single fully-equipped division
(Odium’s Canadians) to hold off invasion
could report at the end of 1942 that not
only had it been able to smash the Axis
in Africa and put half a million of the
enemy there out of action, largely by
use of its shipping, but it had fought
campaigns in Greece, Syria and Iraq,
stopped the Japanese advance on the
Indian borders and brought to a successful
conclusion over its own shores and fac-
tories and ports the most gigantic air
battle the world had ever seen, destroy-
ing in the process over 7000 ’planes
enough to have turned the scale easily
in Russia.
Besides this, British and U.S. factories
had shipped to Russia almost entirely in
British ships or ships chartered by Britain
—according to Mr. Oliver Lyttelton
(21/2/’43) —“enough war material for the
initial equipment of 32 armored divisions
and 400 squadrons of aircraft”: including
3000 tanks, 3000 ’planes, 50,000 tons of
rubber, 70,000,000 rounds of small-arms
ammunition and 800,000 tons of other
supplies from Britain. Allied ship-
ping also had been able to carry
Uncle Sam’s contribution to Rus-
sian strength—26oo ’planes, 3200 tanks,
75.000 trucks, 7700 motor-cycles, 1300
military tractors, 130,000 sub-machine-
guns, 3,000,000 pairs of boots, 18,000
tons of sole leather, 75,000 tons
of railway rails, “hundreds of thousands
of miles of telephone wire,” 268,000 tons
of petroleum products, 580,000 tons of
steel, 46,000 tons of aluminium and dural-
min—equal to a year’s production of the
greatest aluminium works in U.S.S.R.
94.000 tons of copper and brass, 50,000
tons of high explosives, 75,000 tons of
chemicals and “tremendous quantities of
food.”
For its own fronts Britain landed mil-
lions of tons of freight abroad —up to
March, 1942, 3,000,000 tons had been
delivered to Egypt alone —and had found
7,000,000 tons of shipping for the North
African western front.
Axis Losses
Sinkings, too; are far from being all
on the one side.
Outside naval losses, the Germans and
Italians are short of well over half their
merchant shipping tonnage as it stood
in 1939, and from August to March Japan
lost 754,000 tons, of which 184,000 tons
were sunk in January and 105,000 tons
in March.
Every month the Allied ships steam
12,000,000 sea miles, for three-quarters
of which British ships can claim credit,
in spite of submarines and Focke Wulfs.
U-boat Bases
One of the great advantages which the
enemy possesses in the present war as
against the last war is the possession of
U-boat bases and sea-raiding aerodromes
in the west of France facing Biscay. In
the two peninsulas between the mouth
of the Seine to the mouth of the Loire--
the distance from Le Havre to St. Nazaire
is about 200 miles —there are Le Havre,
Cherbourg, St. Malo, Brest, Lorienr and
St. Nazaire. All these have had their
batterings from the air. In fact, this
portion of France has had more attention
from the Allied air forces than any
northern region outside Germany.
Its military headquarters, its ports, its
aerodromes have been constantly blasted.
Cherbourg being 83 miles from South-
ampton and Le Havre 105 miles, the
small western peninsula areas provide
the most direct approach to Paris (about
75 miles from Le Havre by air), and at
the same time look like the invasion
points in northern France which would
yield the quickest profits in case of an
attempt by British and American troops
to cross the Channel.
Occupation of the two peninsulas
would turn the scale in the U-boat war.
In brief:
U.S. Marines have occupied Funafuti, which
lies just west of 180 E. long, in the Ellice
Islands, about 1800 miles from Rabaul. It
is a coral island with a well-sheltered lagoon,
and before the war harbored a single white and
350 intelligent Polynesians. It lies in a direct
line between Hawaii and New Caledonia. The
date of the landing has not been made public,
but no Japanese were seen.
* * * *
Outside General MacArthur’s zone, there
was considerable small activity in the Pacific.
Munda (Solomons) was raided several times
and five hits were scored on a 10,000-ton ship,
which afterwards was reported to be sinking.
Kahili aerodrome was further damaged. A
U.S. Navy communique (April 23)* reported
that in daylight a large force of heavy U.S.
bombers had done great damage to Japanese
installations at Nauru. Kiska (Aleutians) was
bombed 30 times during the week.
* * * *
British forces in Arakan, Burma, have made
another small precautionary withdrawal towards
the Indian border. Casualty lists show that in
nearly four months’ campaigning Lt.-Generai
Irwin lost 392 men killed, and 3122 are reported
wounded or missing; the Indians among his
troops had 221 killed and 1721 wounded or
missing. Enemy losses were estimated at 4200,
at least 1000 of them kijled. The official lists
show the absurdity of Tokyo’s claim to have
wiped out two British divisions and captured
a brigade.
* * * *
R.A.F. and U.S.A.F. air raiding continued
over the Continent. The attacks included a
first raid by Mosquitoes on Berlin and another
attack on the Italian base of Spezia—the second
in six days. In this a destroyer was sunk in
the harbor and 10,000 square feet of roof was
blown off a shipbuilding plant, apart from
other damage.
« * * •
From Jan. 17 to March 31 the R.A.F.
Bomber Command dropped 32,000 tons of
bombs, of which 22,000 tons fell on Germany.
* * * •
H.M. submarine Thunderbolt is “overdue and
presumed lost.” Thunderbolt, formerly Thetis,
sank on her trials- in 1939, when 99 persons
were drowned in her.
* * * *
The new U.S. heavy cruiser Canberra, 13,000
tons, carrying nine Sin. and 12 sin. guns, has
. been launched by the wife of Australia’s Minis-
ter in Washington (himself back in Australia
for consultation). The Canberra, which is
more powerful than the German pocket battle-
ships, is the first American naval ship to be
named after a foreign city.
* * * *
A British submarine is credited with sinking
13 enemy ships in the Mediterranean and shell-
ing an Italian war factory. The cheeky vessel
popped up out of a bay 3000 yards from
the factory, opened fire and then closed the
range to 1000 yards so that the commander
could shoot point-blank through the factory
windows. After an hour’s good shooting, the
visitors left their target in flames.
♦ * * *
Hundreds of Australians and Maorilanders
are reported to be among guerrilla troops
fighting in Greece and Crete, and (according
to Chungking) some are continuing the struggle
in Malaya.


SPORTING NOTIONS
(Conducted by "PILOT")
On the opening day of the A.J.C.
autumn meeting the attendance was short
of expectations, but exceeded it on Satur-
day last, when 80,000 were present, and the
tote turnover was £119,971, making the
total for the two days £225,043, against
£66,885 when the corresponding meet-
ing was held at Rosehill last year. For
the four days at Randwick in the autumn
of 1941 the turnover was £199,419.
Abspear (Munro) ran a great race to
win the Sydney Cup. As usual, he was
among the rear division for a long way,
and, with Fearless leading, was about
sixth into the straight. When Fearless
weakened, Wellesley and Moondarewa
made a forward move, but, though 50
yards from home Wellesley looked a
winner, Abspear disposed of him in the
last few strides. There was only a half-
neck in it, and Moondarewa, who hung
out quite a lot over the last three fur-
longs, was a similar distance away. In
the final furlong Grand Fils made a run
that looked like landing him in a place,
but he weakened slightly before reaching
the winning-post.
Half a mile from home Eureka was
one of the tail-enders and was conceding
what appeared an impossible start to the
leaders. He then made a run that took
him quite close to the front a furlong
from home, but the effort was too much,
and he dropped right out again just at
the end. Veiled Threat was beaten com-
mencing the final half-mile, and, though
always nicely placed, Baroda was never
doing well enough to look a winner.
Dashing Cavalier did not improve upon
his most recent efforts. The first mile
was run in the slow time of 1.45 and
the last in 1.41. E. Hush has reason to
be pleased with Abspear, whose recent
form has been most consistent. Spear-
felt sired the three place-getters.
Flying Knight (McMenamin) met a
field of smart sprinters in the C. W.
Cropper Plate, but taking charge from
All Love shortly after entering the
straight he made light of his 9.10, win-
ning easily from his stablemate War
Effort, with John Halifax, Winnipeg and
Magi heading the others. St. Elmo and
Trimmer did well to the turn, but Flying
Knight completely outpaced his oppo-
nents in the run home, and cut out the
six furlongs in l.lOj —a half-second
worse than the course record, jointly held
by Gold Salute (8.10) and Soho (8.6),
Recently beaten twice over longer dis-
tances, Yaralla’s (McMenamin) comfort-
able win in the All-Aged Stakes in only
three-quarters of a second worse than the
course record left no doubt as to his
being our best miler. The pity was that
the runners did not include the Doncaster
winner Kingsdale. As it was, Yaralla
led all the way, and was never really
threatened by the other place-getters.
Gold Salute and Riverton. Modulation’s
St. Leger run had evidently deprived him of
all dash, and after tailing off most of
the way he did well to finish a fair fourth.
Moorland was favorite for the Cham-
pagne Stakes, and as this time little
excuse was possible for his failure his
would-be buyer at 7000gns. now appears
to have cause to congratulate himself on
his offer being turned down. Clarion
Call and War Eagle got away badly. At
the straight entrance Flight (McMena-
min) and Ajixa were well clear of Had-
don Hall. Flight then went on to win
easily from War Eagle, who, in beating
Moorland for second, ran a rattling race.
Haddon Hall was always prominent, and
his fourth was good enough to suggest
early success in a handicap. At 60gns.,
Flight has proved herself the bargain of
last season’s yearling sales. Her earnings
total £3589.
Falcon Knight (Darke) finished strongly
to win the Fernhill Handicap from Tribal
(by Genetout) and Chinook (by Mani-
toba), the last-named leading into the
straight from Bulancer, Joygiver, Sincer-
ity and Warlock. Tribal also put in good
work at the end, and as his second cannot
send him up into the weights to a marked
extent he has an excellent chance of
winning in the near future. Falcon
Knight is likely to stay, but the fact of
being a gelding bars him from the A.J.C.
Derby. Highgate, Warlock and Sincerity
shaped fairly, while Bulancer faited badly
over the last furlong.
In the Final Handicap Katanga again
proved himself a high-class handicap
horse under weight. Half a furlong from
home it did not appear as if he would
overhaul Ron Rico, who had disposed
of Sir Neith and Jymjon, but he got his
head in front almost on the post, Munro’s
vigor playing a big part in the result.
Merrimba made up a lot of leeway over
the last three furlongs to run fifth, and
Lady Hamilton, who did not have the
best of luck in running, was also handy.
Nightbeam and Shining Night fell short
of expectations, but the support extended
the latter suggested it may not be long
before he does better.
* * ♦ *
Claudette, who had raced over hurdles
and was eligible for Trial company, gave
bookmakers a 50-to-l result in the Wil-
liamstown Easter Cup at Flemington on
Saturday. As much as 100 to 1 was bet
against her, but owner-trainer D. Mcßae
stated he let her run for the stake of
£7OO. The five-year-old David mare had
been out of the paddock only seven
weeks, and had made no showing in a
recent race at Mentone. She made the
most of her light weight in much better
company on Saturday, however, and hit-
ting the front when fairly on the way
for home held off the favorite. Wise
Counsel, and Blue Glide. Wise Counsel
ran into some trouble during the race,
but was advantaged by a rails run in the
straight.
Mcßae won the last Grand National
Hurdle with Saul and has hopes of win-
ning it again this season with that horse
or Claudette. The latter has shown good
promise in her few races over hurdles,
and, like most of the Davids, is a natural
jumper. With three wins on the flat,
Claudette has been a payable proposition
for her soldier owner-trainer, who raced
her on lease for her first win and then
exercised an option of purchase.
Gay Revelry followed up his Ascot
Autumn Cup success by defeating Watch
Guard and Sun Valley in the Under-
wood Stakes. The majority of backers,
however, considered seven furlongs too
short for him, and he started at 33 to 1.
A fair way out of his ground rounding
the turn Gay Revelry dashed through on
the inside to take the lead about a fur-
long from home and won decisively. He
completed a double for rider S. Ralph,
who had won earlier on Ola Rose. Equal
favorites Tuhitarata and Zonda dis-
appointed, but Chatfield did well to finish
fifth, after losing several lengths at the
start. Melbourne Cup winner Colonus
finished last after making the pace to
the turn.
Winterset’s brilliant win under 12.13
in the Easter Steeple had two sequels:
rider L. Meenan was suspended for one
month for causing interference and
Winterset was placed under a threat of
banishment from the suburban area for
kicking. Winterset is one of the greatest
fencers seen for many years, and it will
be unfortunate for his connections if his
barrier behavior prevents his starting for
the Grand National Steeplechase. He is
one of the biggest “box office” attractions
in training.
Ola Rose, who, like Gay Revelry, is
by John James, followed up her Moonee
Valley success by beating two outsiders,
David’s Last and Night Link, in the
Electric Handicap. The only surprising
feature of her win was her starting price
of 10 to 1. Hero ended an unlucky
sequence by defeating True Flight and
Manstar in the first Federal Welter, but
True Flight looked unlucky. An inside
run assisted Lilette to success over Wan-
ganui and Celeris in the second Federal
Welter.
* * * *
Little favorable can be written of the
three-year-olds that have raced in Syd-
ney this autumn. In Main Topic’s ab-
sence Modulation came out best by
winning the St. Leger, but Baroda, who
was third in that race, could not get a
place with 71b. less than w.f.a. in the
Sydney Cup. Applying the w.f.a. scale,
the winner, Abspear, was only 21b. better
off, and fie had no chance against
Katanga and Veiled Threat in the
Autumn Plate. Therefore, it would
seem as if Modulation had little to beat
in the St. Leger, and at the shorter dis-
tance he was not a possibility in the All-
Aged Plate. Still, at the 500gns. I be-
lieve he cost as a yearling, he has given
W. T. Kerr a highly-satisfactory return.
Riverton won the Villiers Stakes like
a good miler, but his form in the Don-
caster Handicap did not uphold the idea
that he was considerably above the aver-
age. Excuse may have been possible for
him in that race, but none in the All-
Aged Plate. Though third, he was out-
classed by Yaralla and Gold Salute.
Hall Stand has not acted up to his spring
promise, but as in his recent races he
showed he had not lost pace there is
still hope for him in handicaps up to a
mile, but with Yaralla in the way his
prospects in eight- or nine-furlongs w.f.a.
races may not be bright.
Flying Shuttle, second in the St. Leger,
had no chance against Modulation, and,
though Lady Hamilton dead-heated for
first place in an open mile and a quarter
handicap, she was among those beaten
by Katanga in the Final Handicap, and
she met him 251 b. better than w.f.a.
However, while our three-year-olds are
not of special class, it cannot be claimed
that those of Melbourne are much better.
They have not shone against the older
horses.
* * * *
The A.J.C. Sires’ Produce Stakes and
Champagne Stakes discounted Moor-
land’s claims to be rated an exceptional
two-year-old, but did not make it definite
which was our best of that age. In the
Champagne Stakes Moorland and Clarion
Call carried 71b. penalties, and Haddon
Hall 51b. Clarion Call’s chance was
spoilt through an indifferent getaway,
but it is improbable either of the other
two would have beaten Flight even if
they had not met her at a weight dis-
advantage.
As Mayfowl beat Flight in the Sires’
Produce Stakes it can be claimed for him
that he is really the best of his age, but
Flight may have been a little better in
the Champagne Stakes than in the other.
She looked particularly bright as she
left the paddock last Saturday. Clarion
Call still enters into calculations as being
among the best, and a lot can be said for
War Eagle, who is one of the improving
kind and an A.J.C. Derby possibility.
The fact of being geldings bars Clarion
Call, Falcon Knight and Haddon Hall
from that race, and, as Flight’s owner
may restrict her to sprinting, Mayfowl,
War Eagle, MacArthur and Moorland
(despite his failures) may have brightest
prospects. So far as the actual two-year-
old position at present is concerned, most
can be said for Mayfowl and Flight.
* * * *
Many female and some male totalisator
bettors don’t bother much about the
horses, but pin their faith to jockeys. At
the three meetings at Randwick this
month a couple of the leading lights gave
their supporters a satisfactory return. In
addition to winning five and a half races,
McMenamin scored one second and
one and a half thirds. Munro’s
four wins, four seconds and two thirds
should have satisfied his large army of
backers. Knox, though the winner of
three races, did not record a minor plac-
ing ; and Cook and J. Thompson had
cause to account themselves unlucky.
Cook rode one winner and Thompson a
half-one, but the former’s score included
one second and five and a half thirds ;
and the latter’s efforts three seconds and
three thirds.
* * ♦ ♦
Entries for the English substitute classic
races for 1943 closed in January and filled
as follows: Two Thousand Guineas, 67 ;
One Thousand Guineas, 64 ; Derby, 72 ;
Oaks, 68 ; and St. Leger, 92.
* * * *
A Detroit racing writer believes that,
under the Lend-Lease programme, Eng-
land could benefit America in one way.
He wrote as follows: “It would be only
fair to ask England to lend us her sports
supervisors and put them in charge of
sports in this country. Give them the
complete authority and order the various
supernumeraries in Washington to attend
to their regular duties and keep hands off
sports and the whole situation will soon
be clarified and placed on a sound com-
monsense basis. England owes us at
least that much by now.”
* * * *
Lord Nuffield stands so far out from
the other sprinters racing in the South
Island of Maoriland that he was weighted
at 10.4 (minimum 7.0) for the Great
Easter Handicap, of £lOOO, seven fur-
longs, at the C.J.C. (Christchurch) Easter
meeting. Nearest to him was Monte
Cristo, 9.1. In the Great Autumn Han-
dicap, of £lOOO, \\ mile, the difference
between the top weight, Royal Lancer,
and those nearest him was even more pro-
nounced. He had 10.3, with All Night
and The Joker next with 8.8.
♦ ♦ * *
Yearling sales often make you wonder
how far the knowledge of accepted good
judges really goes. One year you will see
youngsters sold for next to nothing. They
win races, and the following year their
brothers or sisters are rushed by buyers
in a manner suggesting their good points
stand out like quills on a porcupine. It
is wise for buyers to go for winning
lines, but the change of ideas in a year
often makes you smile.
♦ * * *
The spirit of optimism that prevailed in
connection with the future of racing was
a pronounced feature of Inglis and Son’s
yearling sales at Randwick last week. An
average of 256|gns. for the 262 sold was
the best for several years, and prices
made by new imported sires in Golden
Sovereign and Le Grand Due were par-
ticularly gratifying to their owners. A
son of the former, from Jenny’s Bag,
and not from any of the leading
studs, made top price, 1750gns. Though
it rarely happens, it is to be hoped that
buyers of this year’s high-priced lots re-
ceive fitting reward. Youngsters that
made lOOOgns. and over were as under;
Gns.
Br.c., Golden Sovereign-Jenny’s Bag . . 1750
8.f., Double Remove-Sweet Annabel .. 1700
8.c., Golden Sovereign-Swiftspear .. 1600
8.c., Golden Sovereign-Modiste II .. 1500
Br.c., Beau Pere-Tartan Sash .. .. 1500
Br.c., Felcrag-Bower Belle 1500
8.c., Manitoba-Vocal 1300
8.c., Golden Sovereign-Herowinkie .. 1250
8.c., Manitoba-Miss Eastern .. .. 1050
Br.c., Golden Sovereign-Gaterina .. 1000
8.c., Midstream-Glade 1000
Br.c., Felcrag-Glenbelle 1000
8.c., Le Grand Due-Sweet Sound .. 1000
8.c., Spearfelt-Lady Brindabella .. .. 1000
8.f., Golden Sovereign-Euglena .. .. 1000
* * * *
In England last week Gordon Richards
equalled F. Archer’s record of 2749 wins.
Richards has been riding over a longer
period than Archer, but in a couple of
seasons sickness and an accident kept
him on the ground for a long time. S.
Heapy, who rode over 3100 winners,
principally in Belgium, has been working
in an English stable since shortly after
the commencement of the war.
* * * *
In money won, horses bred by Mrs.
Payne Whitney did better last year than
those of any other American breeder.
Their earnings totalled $536,173 (approxi-
mately £A162,421) from 175 wins. In
number of wins A. B. Hancock was first,
with 333. In 1941 Warren Wright was
first and Mrs. Whitney second, but last
year positions were reversed; In 1929
horses bred by Harry Payne Whitney
amassed $825,374 —an American record.
* * * *
An English writer, in discussing stal-
lions which in their old age sired good
horses, says:
Bend Or was 25 years old when he got
Radium, though his dam was only 11 at
the time of his birth. Son-in-Law sired
Epigram, one of the stoutest of all his
sons, when he was 21, and Statute, the
youngest of his winning stock, three years
later. Gallinule, foaled in 1884, died on
January 9, 1912, shortly before the birth
of his son Torloisk, who did good service
in the late Sir Edward Flutton’s colors.
St. Simon died, aged 27, on April 2, 1908,
the year in which his two good sons Jugger-
naut and St. Girons were foaled. As re-
gards longevity on the dam’s side, that
famous brood mare Plucky Liege, who
numbered among her earlier produce
Admiral Drake, Sir Gallahad 111, Bull Dog
and Bel Aethel, produced her Derby
winner, Bois Roussel, at the age of 23. .
* * * *
English-bred Blenheim II and Bahram
are the stallions advertised at the highest
fees in America. Each is at $2500 (about
£A76O). Whirlaway gave Blenheim II a
great boost.
* * * *
Brisbane owners and trainers continue
to receive their share of hard knocks.
The latest was the announcement by the
Q.T.C. of the abandonment of this year’s
Brisbane Cup, St. Leger and Seres’ Pro-
duce Stakes. It has also been decided not
to take entries for classic races closing
on the customary first Tuesday in June.
* * * *
In India, at latest, Lucrative was still
racing much below his best Australian
form. Up to February 7 he had started
five times in Bombay without getting a
place. He was a runner for the rich
Eclipse Stakes, \\ mile, won by Golden
Fawn (9.7), but with 9st. did not show up.
* # * *
J. W. Coffroth, who promoted the first
$lOO,OOO race in the world, died at San
Diego (California) in February,
Miscellaneous
Going out of his class for the third
time to box Tommy Colteaux, claimed
to be middleweight champion, at Leich-
hardt, Hockey Bennell got the decision
again, and deserved it. He had Colteaux
down in the ninth, but the middleweight
disdained to take a count.
“Over in three” was Bob Fuller’s scrap
with Teddy Williams at Sydney Stadium.
Williams, a preliminary boy, was a last-
minute substitute for Mickey Miller, who
had been substituted for Johns —Fuller's
original opponent. He almost held his
own for two rounds.
« * * *
Although, for one thing, Sydney’s
Rugby Union has lost half a dozen good
men to a professional concern (the same
which, with the German war well ad-
vanced, was offering two-year contracts),
there are plenty of promising youngsters
about, and Saturday’s games promised an
interesting season. Scores:
Manly 32, Parramatta 5; Randwick, 3b
Drummoyne nil ; Uni. (with only one ot
1942 XV) 12, West 3; St. George (yery younj
16 North 9; East and Gordon a 12-all draw-


Women's Letters
From Melbourne
Falling on Easter Sunday, Anzac Day
was clothed in a solemnity it sadly lacked
last year, and the coincidence of occa-
sions did not clash, as both days com-
memorate sacrifice. The scene at the Shrine
of Remembrance was very autumnal and
still, with a quiet.crowd, falling leaves,
grey stone and grey sky. There was
general pleasure at having “the march”
back again, and it was marked by a pur-
poseful seriousness that reflected the
spirit of Australia again at war. Many
who came to commemorate the Landing
of 1915 were thinking of Crete and
Greece as well as they stood before the
Shrine.
The Returned Army Nurses’ Associa-
tion took its usual distinct part in the
commemoration. Those of its members
who could attend were present at the
morning ceremony when the president
laid a wreath on the Shrine, and a much
larger number gathered at the Edith
Cavell memorial to take part in the tradi-
tional service there. The new Matron-
in-Chief of the A.A.N.S., Matron Sage,
represented nurses of past and present ser-
vice on the dais at the Shrine service in
the early afternoon. The association is
pleased with the steady increase in its
numbers, with so many nurses returning
from war service, but it has put a firm
veto on social functions till war ends.
Typical of the desire of members to sub-
ordinate everything to national needs was
their refusal of the usual offer of car
transport to the Shrine; they insi; ed
that cars should be used only for
wounded men.
The “Everything for Baby” raffle ran
to a triumphant finish with a sale of
88,000 tickets and £4400 for p.o.w. funds.
It was one of those catching ideas, and
everybody, whether he or she had a baby or
not, seemed unable to pass the fascinating
array of nursery equipment. First prize
was a complete layout, and was won
by an auntie of an expected baby. Con-
solation prizes included a very thorough
supply of baby needs. One went to an
L.A.C., who is heading for quite a lot of
chaff among fellow-airmen, his prize in-
cluding Persian lawn petticoats, night-
gowns and a high chair.
Creches are popping up all over the
town to accommodate the mother who
has to leave baby somewhere for the day.
The Women’s Hospital is latest on the
list with a kindergarten for children of
outpatients who are forced to wait for
some time for attention. Youngsters in
arms or toddling are a sore trial to
mother on hospital days, and many
creches have children left with them for
this reason. Air Force wives are pro-
vided for by the reopening of the
R.A.A.F. Children’s Playroom, into
which shopping and otherwise occupied
mothers may leave children for a few
hours or a day. Charges are very
moderate. Secretary Mrs. J. M. Gardiner
has made the rejuvenated venture a suc-
cess.
It’s generally agreed that there were
more Easter brides than ever this year,
and, in spite of everything, formal full-
length frocks predominated. Borrowing
from friends and clubbing together
father’s and father-in-law’s coupons seem
to have been the means. Among the
not-so-formal, flowered and feathered
toques were the order of the day, with
pastel coat-and-frock ensembles, which
seem to be becoming almost a uniform
for not-so-formal weddings. Easter
decorations made most weddings extra
festive. The custom of decking the
church in bouquets and greenery for the
wedding ceremony is now almost in
abeyance at ordinary times of the year,
on account of the cleaning up after-
wards. Bridal bouquets are put together
with difficulty, as flowers are scarce.
The loveliest thing obtainable lately has
been the enormous curly-headed white
chrysanthemum, but most brides were
conventional and chose tuberoses or gar-
denias, which are making a last appear-
ance.
The Tin Pan Alley Players believe they
have something really good in the Phillip
Barry play “Hotel Universe,” which they
intend to perform at the Union Theatre
on April 30 and May 1. The piece was
a sensational success in New York, and,
what is more, the members of the cast
are thoroughly enthusiastic about it.
Plot is mostly psychological problems,
well wrapped up, and scene a hotel in the
French Riviera that “goes all queer,” as
one character puts it, and shows up the
past of its guests, like the magic wood in
Barrie’s “Dear Brutus.” This time, how-
ever, the past gets all the blame. Peggy
Tellick, Margery Dyason and Dorothea
Dickson are among the well-tried troupers
making up the cast.
The Melbourne Dramatic
Club has again come into being after a
year’s lapse. Play readings are its forte,
with an occasional stage presentation (last
big show was “Rope,” played two years
ago at the festival in which Sydney
Uni. competed with “Cousin Muriel”),
M.U.D.C. will now be co-ordinated with
the Tin Alley Players, a very sensible
scheme in view of the depleted numbers
of students who can give time to re-
hearsals. In future the T.A.P. group will
be able to recruit talent from among the
students, whereas formerly (and theoreti-
cally) only those who had left the Uni.
were eligible. In practice, of course, this
dispensation wasn’t always effective.
Making the “twenty-one” mark in the
middle of the war isn’t much fun —it’s
unpatriotic to do much celebrating. Mar-
gery Barnes, pictured here by Peter Fox,
is one of the youngsters who have had
to dispense with the usual big do, but
the family marked the event by a little
late-afternoon tea party in their delight-
ful Doncaster garden which has so often
been thrown open for the Red Cross.
Absentees were father, Major J. F.
Barnes, away on service, and sister Joan,
at an A.W.A.S. driving school. Margery
cannot seek a war job, being bound to
serve the interests of education as secre-
tary to Prof. J. S. Browne.
The American Service Club’s Easter
Bonnet Ball echoed the famous Easter
Sunday promenade of New Yorkers,
when everyone dons gala attire and takes
the air down Fifth-avenue. At the ball
on Saturday each girl was given a sheet
of colored paper about a foot square,
supplied with a few “Eastery” decora-
tions of the rabbit and egg kind and given
10 minutes to concoct a hat. The re-
sulting creations were worn in a parade
around the room and there was a prize
for the best hat. Buddies and their part-
ners got tons of fun out of this. The
club is showing off its new curtains
(“drapes” they call them), which are
very, very austere, helpers would have
you note, but manage to look effective
just the same. The room was decorated
with egg and chicken cut-outs on Satur-
day' night.
Among latest recruits to A.W.A.S.
ranks is Marjorie Ross, leaving her Uni.
course for the tougher school of the
“rookies.” Marjorie’s sister Muriel,
graduate in massage, or physiotherapy,
as it is called nowadays, began the thing
by taking her talents to an Allied hos-
pital. Both young women ought to be of
value if they ever get within sight of
the Japs, as they can tell the difference
between our enemy and our Chinese
allies, a complete puzzle to most folk.
They have the advantage of having spent
their childhood in China with mother,
Mrs. I. D. Ross, whose travels in dis-
tant places have earned her the letters
F.R.G.S., and are daughters of the late
Rev. I. D. Ross, a Cambridge wrangler
and a noted translator of Chinese classics.
From Sydney
When Anzacs march again, where do
their thoughts go wandering? Twelve
abreast, a blaze of decorations and
medals in the bright afternoon, the
heroes of Gallipoli, of France, of all the
scenes of the 1914-18 war, stepped
through the streets of Sydney last Sun-
day afternoon. The burning blue of the
sky must have seemed to the men who
stormed the “impregnable” rock not
unlike the sky that had burned above
them on that first fierce morning on Gal-
lipoli. Maybe many of them strode,
young again, down the long, poplar-lined
roads of France. But wherever the mind
strayed, the . eyes of all were warm with
remembered comradeship. The Anzacs
marched —soldiers of last war and of this
—and a city turned out to show its pride
and its thanks.
Thousands lined the way in Macquarie-
street; groups were tiered on the steps
of the Shakspeare monument, baby son
on daddy’s shoulder the highest point.
Every window was crowded. There was
a sea of humanity about the Cenotaph in
Martin-place. The scent of rosemary
swept sharp and sweet along the streets.
There were snowdrifts of Junior Red
Crossers. Here were small boys with
Red Cross armbands. There was a five-
year-old sergeant wi(h mother, who
carried on her arm a man-size sergeant’s
coat. The Anzacs marched. Sixteen
thousand of them, and, though their glory
shall never fade, time has bleached the
once bright heads. But time cannot
wither them. They went their way salut-
ing, hat against heart, the Cenotaph—at
once a salute to the immortal dead and
to their own youth.
The Governor, Lord Wakehurst, led
the march, and General Blarney’s stalwart
form was seen. The Governor had been
at the dawn service in Martin-place, and
was among those who had laid wreaths
on the Cenotaph, never more bestarred
with flower and wreath than on this 1943
anniversary.
The A.J.C. autumn meeting ended on
a note as full of simple beauty and
rustic health as the Maud Muller of
Whittier’s poem. Women, as noted last
week, went clad in tailor-mades, and with
a noticeable diminution of glamorised
effects. The tailor-made gives the
natural Australian good looks a chance
to assert themselves. Most sleekly-clad
legs were, of course, topped by Allied
service women. It was a grand Satur-
day afternoon, crisp and sunny in
the best Easter manner, and Randwick
was a good place to be.
It was a much better place to be than
were many of the holiday resorts to
which thoughtless thousands went career-
ing on enjoyment bent. Shortage of
accommodation sent many of them
hurrying back to their own homes.
Generally speaking, the uncomfortably-
crowded trains must have taken the curl
out of the holiday spirit. Standing all
the way to the Blue Mountains must
have made those heights appear the
deepest indigo.
Here is one of Sydney’s newly-budded
doctors. She is pretty and vivid Gwen
McGirr, and she got through her final
medical last week. She is a daughter of
the Greg McGirrs, of North Sydney,
and, like all the family, is interested in
the arts —Australian plays and verse are
a special weakness. Fine needlework is
another recreation. Basketball and
tennis are her games. With her sisters
she spent Easter with relations in Oberon.
Photograph by Freeman.
Last week Lady Gowrie went to the
Trades Hall to address trade-union offi-
cials on their native heath. This was the
first vice-regal visit since Lord Carring-
ton, then Governor of the State, laid the
foundation stone in 1888. Her Ex. was
bidden welcome by J. J. Maloney,
M.L.C., president of the Trades and
Labor Council; W. G. Mahoney, indus-
trial organiser for the Red Cross, and
Carmel Nyhan, organiser for the Shop
Assistants’ Union. Mrs. Nigel Smith,
Susan Spencer, A. L. Blythe and Frank
Cayley, of the Red Cross, were others
in the official group. Lady Gowrie spoke
on the work of the Red Cross and praised
the trade-unions for improving conditions
for the workers. Mr. Maloney, on behalf
of the trade-union movement, pledged its
support of the Red Cross.
Scots College will hold a Market Day
on May 1 in the college grounds, Bellevue
Hill, to augment the College War Fund,
which supports five prisoners of war,
and to help found a bursary fund for
the son of a Scots College Old Boy who
has given his life in this war.
The C.W.A. conference on the sixth of
next month will waste no time on un
necessary talky-talk. All the business
will be crowded into one day, and, if pos-
sible, into the morning half. The after-
noon will then be free for lectures. Mrs.
Jack Garry goes in again as president,
unopposed. Lady Wakehurst will open
the conference, which is expected to be
small in numbers, owing to so many out-
back members being kept busy on their
home fronts while the menfolk are doing
a war job. A looked-forward-to event
of the day will be the presentation
of a cheque from the C.W.A. for
a pleasing sum for the Red Cross
Fund. The money comes from the sale
of a book of verse, Some Day, by Mrs.
Mac Smith, of Boree Cabonne. Over
12,000 copies of it have been sold. In
the evening a reception will celebrate the
C.W.A.’s coming-of-age—just 21 and en-
titled to the key of Australia’s front
door. It is hoped that first president
Mrs. Munro and first secretary Mary
Irvine will be present.
Both the Palm Court and the ballroom
of the Wentworth seethed with excite-
ment when the wool trade ran its auction
for the War Veterans’ Home at Narra-
been. Auctioneers of the celebrated bale
of yarn, W. G. Lumby, J. Brassil and
F. Davies, had a feverish time. Their
rostrum was the small balcony overlook-
ing the Palm Court. The upset price
was £lOO. Mrs. Hubert Fairfax bid a
£lO 10s. rise on behalf of the C.W.A.
Finally the bale was knocked down for
£2OO0 —not many Australian writers can
claim thaUfor a yarn. This money, plus
cocktail-party profits, competitions and so
on, will be something in the hat towards
the new dormitory blocks, occupational
therapy rooms and the most up-to-date
laundry that can be installed.
The ballroom was crowded with
people at tables sipping everything
—even the almost unprocurable dry
ginger ale. Chairman G. Dewez and
Mrs. Dewez received the guests, among
them Rear-Admiral Gould, Wing-
Commander H. M. Birch, D.F.C.,
representing Air Marshal Anderson,
Lt.-Col. Prentice, who represented Major-
General Fewtrell, W. G. Gruchy and
Colonel W. Wood, chairman of the War
Veterans’ Homes. With her husband
came Mrs. Wood. Finale of the fun-and-
profit afternoon was the presentation of
the bale to the King George Fund, for
Sailors. Now it will go to sea as socks
and comforts for men of the Merchant
Navy.
Federal Treasurer Chifley, having
locked away the hundred million pounds
of loan money, went along to the National
Gallery last week to open the collection
of British war pictures. These are really
not so much pictures of actual warfare
as of the results of war. Still, they grimly
tell their story. The collection was
brought to this end of the earth by
Maoriland’s Governor - General, and
crossed the Tasman, by invitation, to
our shores. Chairman of the National
Gallery Waterhouse introduced the
Minister to a noontide audience of some-
what small proportions.
A wedding interesting to young Sydney
medicoes was that of Captain Peter Hal-
comb Wallman, elder son of the Roy
Wailmans, of Killara, to Joy Machin,
elder daughter of the Mervyn Machins,
of Wingham, at “Shore” chapel last week.
Flight-Lieutenant Mick Norton was best
man, supported by the bridegroom’s
cousin, Flying-Officer Fred Moylan. The
bridesmaids were Driver Helen Ross, of
the A.W.A.S., and Helen Machin, sister
of the bride. Joy was a nurse at the
Royal North Shore Hospital when Peter
did his hospital training there.
Banker Alfred Davidson’s wife, who
is president of the Women’s Auxiliary of
the Sydney Industrial Blind Institution,
and her committee have decided to
forgo their usual money-raising social
functions for the cause this year. As
all the office-bearers, their friends and
fellow-citizens are busy with war work,
it has been decided to ask for straight-
out cash donations. This, as pointed
out, will make less demand on time and
transport. The “1943 ten-shilling appeal”
was launched last week. The letter ex-
plaining the request says: “Our blind
members are now actively sharing Aus-
tralia’s war effort, not only by produc-
ing military camp equipment, but by
specialised work in munition factories.”
Surely such spirit deserves all the help
in our power to give.


liil
B|j
m
m
m
v : ‘
:xvx
PSMh|
f
iillMi
:
sSi&ijsi
mm.
m
ass
Public Notice.
I JOSEPH LABOVITCH, known as JOSEPH
MORRIS of Rumanian nationality, born at
Bucharest’, and resident 30 years in Australia,
now residing at 158 Birrell Street, Waverley,
N S. Wales, intend to apply for naturalisation
under the Nationality Act 1920-1936.
Missing friend.
MR. JEM DRUMMOND SMITH, formerly of
Wickepin, Western Australia, or anyone know-
ing his whereabouts, is asked to communicate
with THE W.A. TRUSTEE, EXECUTOR &
AGENCY CO., LTD., 135 St. George’s Terrace,
Perth.
McELLIGOTT.—WiII CATHARINE McELLI-
GOTT formerly McGoff, born Kissane, who
left Cape Town, South Africa, about 12 years
a wo or anyone knowing her whereabouts, com-
municate with PERPETUAL TRUSTEE COM-
PANY (LIMITED), Box 4172 X, G.P.0., Syd-
ney, regarding the Estate of her late husband,
Roger McElligott?
Legal Notice.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF THE
AUSTRALIAN CAPITAL TERRITORY.
Probate Jurisdiction.
IN the Estate of EILENE BARTLETT HERTZ,
late of Kokola Plantation in the Territory ot
New Guinea, deceased, intestate, who died on
Ist day of January, 1942. —NOTICE is hereby
given that an order to administer the above-
mentioned Estate was granted to me on the 12th
day of April, 1943. All persons having claims
against the Estate as creditors, next-of-km. or
otherwise should submit same, verified by
affidavit or statutory declaration, to me on or
before 14th July, 1943, after which date I will
proceed to distribute the said Estate having re-
gard only to the claims of which I shall have
had notice in writing. All persons owing money
to or having knowledge or possession of a will
or property of the deceased should give notice
to me forthwith. —G. T. WELLS, for the
Curator of Intestate Estates, New Guinea.
Department of External Territories, Canberra,
A.C.T.
FORD TRANSPORT CONSERVATION SERIES—No. 4
The choke seems to have a special fascination for
truck and car drivers. Yet of all the gadgets within
reach, this is one that’s best severely left alone, except
when it’s needed to coax a cold engine to life.
Of course, the choke has a use ; it wouldn’t be
there if it hadn’t. When an engine is cold, the petrol-
and-air mixture must be richer—more petrol and less
air—or the spark can’t ignite it and the engine won’t
start at all.
The choke comes to the aid of the party by
“choking” off most of the air supply, so that the cylinders
receive a vapour rich in petrol. But—here’s the catch—
the mixture needed for starting is at least three times
as rich as that needed when the engine has warned up.
If the choke is kept out for too long , unburnt petrol
seeps down the cylinder walls, washing off the lubricating
oil and undoing the good work of the engine designer.
Some of it by-passes the pistons into the crankcase.
So immediately the engine is warm, the driver
should push the choke right in with his own fair hand.
Never use full-choke a second longer than necessary, or
part-choke once the engine is warm enough to run on
the normal mixture.
Be sparing with the choke, citizens. If plied with
abandon, it can choke a third off the life of your engine.
gdfg
Issued by Ford Motor Company
and Ford Dealers and Distributors
to help conserve trucks, utilities
and cars—vital national assets.
YOUR BEST INVESTMENT IS A WAR BOND
Ford Motor Company of Australia Pty. Ltd. (Inc. in Vic.)
SMOKE-OH!
“Babies a Crying Need.” — “D.T.” heading.
Not for flat-dwellers surely!
•P *P •!« *P
“Can-opener displaced in U.S. kitchens.”
— “Argus.”
Mum must be home on the range.
•J* *|«
“How can the peak-hour crush on buses be
avoided? ” — Correspondent.
By walking.
•J*
“Women Workers Strike.” — “Sun.”
That’s not news these days. It wilt
be when we read “Women Strikers
Work.”
•I- * * *
“Sydney harbor is quite unique; its many
charming coves are a sheer delight.”
—American magazine.
This will be no surprise to the local
girls.
The Difference.
•‘British submarines torpedoed 15 Axis ships.
Seven are believed to have been sunk, and two
are believed to have been sent down.”
—Radio announcer.
The distinction here is a very subtle
one. Naval circles would regard as sunk
those vessels which had received torpedo
hits and disappeared beneath the surface
of the water. Ships reported to be sent
down, however, would be taken to mean
those which had ceased to keep afloat
after being hit.
Some confusion is apt to arise when a
ship goes down subsequently to being
sunk, but this can be theoretically reme-
died by an adjusting entry in tne Admir-
alty registers. In the practical sphere, of
course, the matter can be righted by hav-
ing the ship refloated and then brought
to the surface.
A careful analysis of shipping losses,
both Allied and Axis, reveals, on a con-
servative estimate, that the number of
ships sent down is approximately the same
as the number lost by sinking.
T. W. N.
“Wanted, set of gold clubs, with bag, for
lady.”— Suburban rag.
A munition worker?
-I* *l* *l*
“Does a polish-remover rot nails?”
— Woman’s paper.
No. It’s the polish itself that makes
them look rotten,
•b *l* -I* 4*
“Parcel contg. topcoat, mustard.” — “S.M.H."
Finder keep coat, return mustard.
i "IT * *
“Two Goats Go to Melbourne.
— “D.T.” heading.
They’re expected to return tp Canberra
shortly.
||| |||
“Ice-cream Trade in U.S.A. Hit.” —
That’s not news. It’s been licked from
the start.
•b *h .
“Beefsteak made from wood is a delicacy
in Europe.”— “Sunday Telegraph.”
Presumably it should be chewed across
the grain.
“Radios Upset by Trams.” — “Sun.”
What have they got to complain about?
They aren’t forced to ride in the things.
-I* ►!'
“Cotton tyres for bicycles are Britain’s newest
war product.”
Cyclists will be able to go for a spin.
Strange Bedfellows.
“During the debate on Professor John Ander-
son in the N.S.W. Legislative Council, members
quoted from the Scriptures, Milton, Voltaire,
the “Daily Telegraph”- and the Sydney “Morn-
ing Herald.” — Sydney “D.T.”
Although the greater names be slighted
In this incongruous quintet,
There’s two of ’em, it’s safe to bet,
Will be to some extent delighted.
Enshrined among the giants snugly.
The “Telegraph” will not forget
To blow its trumpet louder yet,
While Granny folds her hands more
smugly.
P. M. L.
Utility.
While travelling by train or tram
1 must confess I often am
Amused by faces that I see
They make me laugh inside of me.
But people shouldn’t be annoyed
If owning faces thus employed;
They should be glad to think our trials
Are made less irksome by their dials.
T. W. Nathan.
Merry-go-round.
“See your doctor if pain persists.”
— “Woman’s Mirror."
Yes, a doctor is certainly good
If through pain you’re becoming a
wreck.
He just gives you a bill
For the pain. Then his bill
Promptly gives you a pain in the neck.
YAIR.
Faux Pas.
“It’s always safe to talk about the weather.”
— “Sun.”
So reasoned, too, my simple brain,
Till in a bar I stood
And told a stranger that the rain
Had done a lot of good.
He called me things that caused the blood
To flush my slandered face;
The rain had made some equine dud
He’d backed {it didn’t like the mud)
Run nowhere in a race.
BRIAN BUREAU.
The Perfect Unionist.
The diver’s helmet broke the surface
of the water. The lifeline pulled him to
the short ladder slung over the side of the
pontoon. Laboriously he clambered up,
and as he stood on the dry boards the
tender unscrewed the bolts and lifted the
helmet.
The diver seemed disgruntled about
something. He pointed to the airpipe
inlet, and made some heated comments.
The tender subjected it to a microscopic
examination, and it was plain by his
attitude at the end of it that he didn’t
agree with the diver. There followed a
lengthy argument. Then, while the hel-
met, with the pipes still attached to it,
lay on the decking, the diver clanked
with his heavy leaden boots across to
the edge, swung on to the small ladder,
descended the few steps, let go and plum-
meted quickly into the pale-green
depths, his hair waving fantastically in
the water as he disappeared.
As one of the tender’s assistants rowed
across and climbed up a near-by jetty
an onlooker, white and shaken, asked
him what could have made the diver do
such a suicidal thing.
“Who, Bert?” asked the t.a. calmly.
“Why, he’s one of the staunchest
unionists on the waterfront. He’s a great
admirer o’ them Newcastle coalies what
had a stay-in strike at the mine they
considered dangerous. Bert reckoned his
helmet wasn’t safe. No, it wasn’t lettin’
no water in, and the air was cornin’ down
to him jonick, but he wasn’t satisfied
somehow. So as a protest he’s just
staged his stay-down strike!”
Bo.


THE OTHER FELLOW'S MIND
The contributor placed first is paid
4|d. per line; all others 2|d. per line.
Soldiers’ Pay
Front-line soldiering is no sweet cop,
but I am tired of the unfair comparison
of our lot with that of the civilian worker.
The 6s. 6d. a day we receive is only
part of the story. I am married, with
one child, and this is how it works out
in my case: I allot to my wife 4s. 6d. a
day. The Government adds to that suffi-
cient to make my wife a iortnightly
allowance (including a bit for the young-
ster) of £8 Bs. I draw the remaining 2s.
a day pocket money, and I have, of
course, 2s. deferred pay mounting up,
making £2 16s. per fortnight. Add to
this my wife’s £8 Bs. and we get £ll 45.,
or £5 12s. per week.
I am housed, fed and clothed by the
Army. Were I boarding away from
home in a civvy job I would expect to
pay 355. per week. Add this to the £5
12s. and it makes £7 7s. My clothing
(not counting equipment) costs the Army
at least 13s. a week, including, as it
does, everything a man could wish for
in any climate, from the snows of Syria
to the heat of the Libyan Desert (and
no coupons needed). Grand total, the
equivalent of £8 per week.
There are no fares to and from work,
' am not taxed, I get paid for Sundays
and holidays and during illness. Medi-
cal attention is free, including dental
work and the fitting of glasses.
Forget that “six-bob-a-day” compari-
son and concentrate, if you must, on the
real hardships, chief among which is
separation from the loved ones for years
on end.
Lest the foregoing sound like the smug
burblings of a base-wallah I may add
that I served in England during the dark
days of 1940, spent eight months in
Tobruk and was one of Ali Baba’s
20,000 Thieves at Alamein. — Bren
Buster (A.1.F.).
Liberty Loan Ads.
It is Jittle wonder that organisations like
the Fighting Forces Protection League
(S.A.) and other bodies are protesting
against the type of advertisements used
in the Third Liberty Loan campaign.
After over twenty years’ experience of
publicity I cannot but agree that some ot
the ads. were atrocious.
Show any average Australian pictures
of Australian life on farm, station, in the
garden, in the home or on the play-
ground and there he will see and recog-
nise the things he lives for and the things
he would die for. Most of the large
manufacturing concerns in Britain devote
their advertising space to pictures of a
happy land as it was before the war and
as it shall be after the war. These are
some of the finest advertisements ever
designed.
Unfortunately, such advertisements
would be right out of step with Austra-
lian politics at the present time, but even
so they would make a far greater appeal
than uninspiring portraits of Curtin, Fad-
den, Forde and Hughes, which, so far as
I and many more are concerned, are not
only so much waste paper, but serve to
underline the severe disabilities under
which the finest country in the world is
now laboring. The best ads. for style
here today are those on The Bulletin’s
front page.—Ex Ist and 2nd A.I.F.
Raw Material of Health
Protective foods are those rich in
minerals and vitamins. Australia pro-
duces in abundance all the protective
loods and everything else needed to pro-
duce a race bubbling over with health
and vitality. We have enough food to
be the best-nourished nation in history.
Have we enough intelligence?
The amount of malnutrition in any
country is not known ; it is a state hard
to define and, in its early stages, hard to
recognise. There is certainly some mal-
nutrition here, owing to poverty, ignor-
ance of the right foods, misleading adver-
tisements, denaturing of grains, waste of
good food and too great consumption of
cane sugar.
Through press and radio, poster and
pamphlet, welfare centre and kinder-
garten, people have been urged to make
protective foods the basis of their menus,
to include liberal, specified daily amounts
0 and milk products, eggs, leafy
vegetables, fresh raw fruits and vege-
tables. It has long been stressed that
large amounts of sugar and milled cereals
such as white flour are a menace to the
vigor and efficiency of adults and the
sturdy growth of children. We must
produce and consume more protective
foods if we are to safeguard the nation’s
health and its agriculture, the most funda-
mental of industries.
What happens when we do not eat a
good diet, when we have too little of the
protective foods and too much sugar and
highly-milled grain foods? Long before
symptoms are well enough advanced for
recognition, there may be vague digestive
or nervous disorders, lack of appetite,
tiredness, a loss of zest and lessening of
efficiency. Health is not determined by
diet alone, but a good diet throughout
the whole life span is a mighty important
factor.
Australians believe in a “fair go” for
all. Surely they will not tolerate for long
the knowledge that in this land of plenty
there are men and women and children
handicapped for life and doomed to be-
come a burden on the community because
they could not afford the ordinary,
abounding foods that make a good diet,
or did not know what a good diet is.—
L.F.S. (Vic.).
Warriors and Politics
North Queensland R.S.S.A.I.L.A. de-
cided by two votes against the league
“ ....And what do I do now, Sarge—twistit round or pull it straight out ?”
entering politics. The main argument
for the motion was:
Its neutral attitude in politics had limited
the league’s activity for too many years....
It was necessary if the league was to serve
the interests of returned men after the
war.... The past and present history of
preference to returned men demanded a
league entry into politics After this
war the league could be expected to be
about 250,000 strong, and unless it had
some political power it would have no
power.
Against:
No scheme had been advanced whereby
the league could enter politics.... Dirty
and clean water won’t mix and politics
wouldn’t mix in the league.... The league
had been successful over the past 25 years
by keeping clear of politics.
The history of soldier settlement and
soldier preference doesn’t support the claim
that the league has been successful by
keeping out of politics. As for a scheme
of entering politics, that shouldn’t be
hard. Nothing is more certain than that
the new members of the league from this
war will have little chance of competing
against vested interests in the shape of
union hierarchies, dug-in Governmental
employees and others unless they can use
a powerful political voice.
Nobody wants to see the league split
into a number of political parties, which
could easily happen if the thing were
rushed into without thought, but the plain
truth is that the league’s neutrality in
politics contributed heavily to the decline
in Australian public service in the pre-
war years, and in the post-war years the
nation must rest most of its hopes for
the future on its returned fighting men
Norther (Q.).
In asking service men to “entrust their
future without question to those who
have been chosen by the people to gov-
ern the country,” Victor James is asking
a deuce of a lot (B. 24/3/’43).
After the last war the Diggers trusted the
politicians, and made their league non-
political, and everyone knows the melan-
choly result. And in the present strife,
is their trust likely to be stimulated by
the endless political manoeuvring over the
one-army issue, soldiers’ pay, pensions,
preference, etc., coupled with the pander-
ing to those sections which, unlike sol-
diers, are allowed to organise politically,
and which, also unlike the soldiers, con-
sistently put their private interests before
their country?
Whatever form the soldiers’ political
organisation takes after the war (and I
for one think a straight-out soldiers’ party
is foredoomed to failure) there is no
doubt that they will play a bigger part
in government than ever in the past.
And if Victor James and his political
and unionist friends are inconvenienced
thereby, they have only their present
performances to thank.— Heresone (Q.).
“ Fuzzy-Wuzzies”
Though “writing to the editor” has
always seemed to me somewhat of an
armchair occupation, I feel it is time I
wrote to The Bulletin to express my
gratitude for and admiration of the paper.
So far from home as the Middle East
and then New Guinea, it has arrived con-
stantly to keep us in honest touch with
Australiana, and never has it failed to
be read by officers and men with equal
enjoyment.
But this letter is prompted by a far
greater question. A committee has been
formed in Melbourne—a committee of
gratitude to the Fuzzy-Wuzzies—which is
to organise the sending of education to
their islands. It will be another of the
mistakes which our Government should
not have permitted.
With the usual impractical ideals of
such so-called philanthropists as a guide,
a scheme will be devised for educating
the natives. How “educating” them? If
it is the English language they would
teach, let me say here that the natives
need it no more than they need white
men in their countries. Or will they
teach racial hygiene? The introduction
of racial hygiene has already done un-
told damage among primitive people, in-
credible though it may seem. Or will
they moralise and convert, and in the
process clothe their nakedness for sweet
modesty’s sake? It means introducing
skin diseases and pulmonary troubles.
On the Owen Stanleys we were among
a great party of these gentle “savages.”
As they passed a certain mountain they
each broke off a twig from the jungle
growth, and, touching it to their knee,
threw it towards the mountain in token
of recognition of its sacred powers. And
they were all mission “boys.”
On war-time engineering works I have
controlled a thousand New Guinea
natives. They do not need your educa-
tion. They were content under Hubert
Murray’s administration. Give them
back that and let them live their own
natural lives. There are Australians first
who need education. — Half-pint (N.G.).
The Bush Bards
Just a line to support the writer of the
article “Lawson and His Ilk” (B.
17/3/’43), who thinks the fine old bush
ballads should be reprinted. Gilrooney’s
“Mother of the West” especially will bear
repetition. Even in these decadent days
of motor transport some of us still like
to look at a horse that is “iron-sinewed
and satin-skinned, ribbed like a drum and
limbed like a deer,” And we like to
recall Lawson’s “where the snorting
stock-horse bunches all his quarters
in a hump and the saddle climbs a sapling
while a horseshoe splits a stump.” 1
reckon the young ’uns would enjoy those
rousing verses as we did and do still. —
Bill Jim (W.A.).
Dairying Industry Subsidy
At the very outset of his criticism of
the flat-rate allocation of the subsidy
under the Dairying Industry Assistance
Act, 1942, “J. McL.” (B. 14/4/’43) dis-
plays his lack of knowledge of the sub-
ject by stating that “the £2,000,000 a year
was little enough.” The Act appropri-
ated £1,500,000. The industry’s request
for an increase to £2,000,000 was received
with hostility.
“J. McL.” fails to look on the dairy-
ing industry’s requirements from an all-
Australia viewpoint, his world not ex-
tending beyond N.S.W. and its dry
weather spells of the moment. Without
prior organisation, the industry’s elected
representatives from all States were
unanimous in evidence before the Tariff
Board as to the impracticability
of any attempt to chase dry spells (with
consequent special subsidy allocation)
from Cooktown to Albany, thus jeopard-
ising the principle of equalisation of
prices all over Australia.
In Queensland, amongst whose 24,000
dairymen there are probably more near
the breadline than in any other State,
the only support for “J. McL.’s” theories
has come from a few “butters-in,” whose
idea was that the whole of the allocation
should be made to “necessitous” farmers,
as a prelude to inauguration of the “com-
munal system” of farming a la U.S.S.R.
And, of course, there would have been
no shortage of supply of inspectors (Red?)
to divide Australia’s 110,000 dairymen
into two camps—the necessitous and the
plutocratic—though just what proportion
of the entirely inadequate subsidy would
be absorbed in their salaries is best left
to imagination.
“J. McL.” and all other dairymen can
safely leave the formulation of ap-
proaches on the big matters of the indus-
try to the Australian Dairy Farmers’
Federation, which is representative of
the rank and file of the industry in every
State. — W. L. Osborne (President Queens-
land Dairymen’s Organisation).
Checking V.D.
“Layman” (B. 7/4/’43) is a bit obscure
when he insists that the medical profes-
sion must “deliberately dissociate itself
from the moral approach” to the prob-
lem of V.D. If he means that it is desir-
able that no reference should be made to
the moral evil (apart altogether from the
question of infecting others with a revolt-
ing complaint) which promiscuity intrin-
sically involves, few will quarrel with his
view, but why doctors should, as the
writer appears to suggest, deliberately re-
frain even from bringing up the question
of “individual responsibility to society”
in the matter is hard to understand.
It is scarcely conceivable that the medi-
cal community as a whole would be
content to undertake the task of pre-
venting the occurrence or spread of the
complaint without uttering any protest
against the frame of mind that permits it.
To urge that doctors, nurses or the so-
called “sexologists” should tackle the
problem either by blandly preaching the
use of preventive contrivances or by
silently treating, post factum, those in-
fected is, on the one hand, to advocate
an immoral approach, which cannot be
tolerated, whether it has specious justi-
fication or not, and, on the other, simply
“stabledoor” tactics.
With regard to “Layman’s” reference
to the distribution of information on “the
physiology and psychology of sex,” it
should be emphasised that either in the
case of adults or adolescents the impart-
ing should be entrusted only to those
with a fitting concept of the dignity of
the sexual function, and that wholesale
dissemination of such information with-
out due regard for the nature of the audi-
ence can often be productive of more
harm than good.—J. P. (N.S.W.).
Daylight Saving in N.Q.
This summer has been, as regards rain-
fall, temperature and so forth, much like
a dozen other summers I have seen in
N.Q. and not so bad as some; yet 1
have never before heard so many com-
plaints regarding ill-health and the heat.
Before daylight-saving time is again im-
posed upon the whole continent —as it is
likely to be next summer —it would be
well for the health authorities to take
one undeniable fact into consideration:
that under daylight-saving time, for the
whole of the long tropic summer, every
man, woman and child north of Capri-
corn does' the afternoon’s work in the
heat of the day. Other combatant coun-
tries, striving to do their best under the
strain of war, are nursing the health of
the people, not neglecting it. — Tropicuss
(N.Q.).


B
&
■
:■ >*r .■$
V -•
mw m m
B-A
Ar
9o
£o
'to
4
*
>
V
r
pAL*|
W
-t-
W-'-’sr'Si
SPRAYING LACQUER ENAMR
o|/[(/v
1
>
fc y«ftAUAM 11*0
ruftV** M». tro
1 N
Tr^
n
AUTOMOTIVE FlN |Sli
FOR SPRAYING -
RICH CSEAM
393 - 7622
2Haimia22S
w
"There’s a war on” —and weVe
had to take our spray guns out
of "Civilian" service and train
them on objectives of national
importance! In other words,
"Duco” and "Dulux” are being
used as approved finishes for the
protection of many war equip-
ment items and that’s war
work to be proud of! So, except
for stocks still remaining on
resellers’ shelves, we’ll be missing
from "peace” work until after
the war—then WE’LL BE BACK
ON THE JOB WITH YOU!
HALM
HCC
LACQUER
The Beautiful Durable Finish
for Motor Cars
BAli M
THE SYNTHETIC FINISH
SUPERSEDES ENAMELS
and VARNISHES
Products of British Australian Lead Manufacturers P ty. Lid., Sydney, Melbourne, Adelaide
