

fd
fd
The Bulletin
“The Bulletin,' Vol. 64. —N0, 3321
Wednesday, October 6, 1943
Pride 6d.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.
Seppelts
DUNURE CASTLE.
HISTORIC AYRSHIRE RUINS.
“From the ruined castle wall.
That nods to the darkened moon,
Tis an old-time song that comes faintly along.
Like the sough of a fairy’s croon.”
ONk0 N k . a v 'sit to Scotland’s Shire of Ayr it is a pity to pass through
this countryside in a hurry, for it breathes with the very spirit
the early days when Scotland was still a battleground. Near
jrkoswald hereabouts is a pleasant byroad that runs from the
f 1 a B e down to the sea, and in a country that bristles with ancient
fortresses you come upon Dunure, which stands so near the edge
a y° u might think one good push would send it headlong into
me sea.
. .Gone are the pageant hosts
And vanished the phantom crowd,
While the old town sleeps by its ancient keeps
Under the midnight cloud.”
But Dunure has stood the buffeting of tempest and armed assault
these past six hundred years, since first the Kennedies’ name struck
terror over all Carrick and Galloway, from this their favoured
citadel. The fourth Earl Gilbert is the villain in Dunure’s story,
for in the fine phrase of the day he was “ane werry greedy marine
and cairrit nocht how he gatt lands.” But Dunure sleeps now,
her still sturdy walls a monument to the days of Allan Stewart,
the good Abbot Quintin and others whose names arc part of
Ayrshire's history.


fd
This Book FREE to YOU!
STOTT’S CORRESPONDENCE COLLEGE,
100 Russell Street, Melbourne.
CUT HERE AND MAIL
Please send, without obligation, your Hew Free
Booklet explaining how to Write Jor Profit, as
advertised in the Sydney “Bulletin.’ >
My Fame
My Address
S.B. 143 AGE
The Red Page
EDITH SITWELL'S COMMAS .
An odd flaw in Edith Sitwell’s A
Poet’s Notebook (Macmillan ; Angus and
Robertson) is an incorrect use of
“neither” on page 97, where Wordsworth
is described as belonging to “neither” of
three kinds of men.
Even odder is Miss Sitwell’s use of the
comma in her introduction:
There are, therefore, in this book, many
aphorisms which dealt, originally, with
music and with painting. They apply,
equally, to Poetry... .The shorter notes
follow the aphorisms, excepting in the case
of a note on the Earliest English Poetry,
which belongs, by its nature, to the notes
on Chaucer.
Except in Les Robinson’s humorous
sketches, in The Bulletin, recently, and
in the past, the present commentator has
not, he thinks, ever before been tripped,
in English prose, by so many unneces-
sary stops of punctuation. Compare, if
you will —this disease, you observe, is,
unfortunately, infectious —the following
passage from Les Robinson:
I was looking for a seat, a sheltered
one, as the wind was chilly, and seques-
tered, too, if it could be found... .Having
rounded up my scattered thoughts, I began
to concentrate on the task before me,
hoping fervently, whilst doing so, that no-
body else would make for my particular
seat. Several people, however, who had
been making for it, evidently, sat down
heavily within the next few minutes.
In Les Robinson’s case, the use of so
many commas, though excessive by ordi-
nary standards, is, certainly, (confound
these commas!) justifiable. He uses
them for the purposes of humor. It is
high time, by the way, that somebody
published, with illustrations, (and may
the printer who invented the comma be
crowned with molten lead!) Les Rob-
inson's enchanting little essays.
But Edith Sitwell’s errors or exuber-
ances are less pardonable. In The Eng-
lish Eccentrics she submitted a really fine
exercise in the art of prose, and recent
works by both Osbert and Sacheverell
Sitwell have won them considerable repu-
tation as prose writers. Osbert Sitwell is
probably the only successful exponent of
the long sentence in contemporary Eng-
ksh letters. The ruthless brandishing of
the comma in A Poet’s Notebook
awakens a fear that Miss Sitwell may be
extending to her prose style that wilful
i reakishness which has always marred
both her poetry and her criticism.
Even at its most strained—as when she
speaks of a “swirling” caesura or of a
full stop like “the immense gap between
the Ice Age and the Stone Age” ; of a
“poignant” g or the “perpetual ground-
sound of i’s and y’s” —Edith Sitwell's
technical criticism of poetry cannot
lightly be dismissed. Anybody will admit
that Tennyson’s
moan of doves in immemorial elms
is a “smooth” line and that the “smooth-
ness” is due to the softness of the o’s
and the sonorousness of the alliterative
m’s: and therefore one should listen to
Miss Sitwell with respect when, com-
menting on the line from “Macbeth”
And fill me from the Crownc to the Toe.
top-full,
she explains
“Full” is a darkened dissonance to “fill”
—and these dissonances, put at opposite
ends of the line—together with the particu-
lar placing of the alliterative f’s of “fill”
and “full,” and the alliterative t’s— and the
rocking up and down of the dissonantal
o s (“Crowne,” “Toe,” “top”)—show us a
mind reeling on the brink of madness,
about to topple down into those depths,
yet striving to retain its balance.
But Miss Sitwell is doing no good ser-
vice to young writers if this sort of criti-
cism conveys to them the impression that
Shakspeare bothered about every word,
every syllable, every letter even that he
wrote. She appears to be quite uncon-
scious of the fact that a similarly learned
exposition of poignant or vigorous g’s,
alliterative t’s and resonant o’s could be
made when anybody announces “I am
going to town today.” And, however
illuminating her analysis may be, it is
simply not possible—it is maddening—
to go through Shakspeare vowel by vowel
and consonant by consonant.
Everywhere in A Poet's Note Book
there are flashes of profitable reading.
Miss Sitwell has a true eye for good
poetry and a clear perception of the
meaning and spirit of good poetry. There
are interesting notes on great and near-
great writers and a particularly valuable
commentary on Gower, Skelton and
Dunbar, quoting from the latter two
lovely and spirited ballads, “Blind Harry”
and “Ann Brash of Wowing.” A series
of aphorisms on poetry quoted from
many sources shows that Miss Sitwell
holds the unfashionable “romantic” but
assuredly correct opinion that poetry is
from the gods. She concurs with
Blake:—
“What,” it will be Question'd, “when
the Sun rises, do you not see a round disc
of fire somewhat like a guinea?” “Oh no,
no, I see an Innumerable Company of the
Heavenly Host crying Holy, Holy, Holy is
the Lord God Almighty.” I question not
my Corporeal or Vegetative Eye any more
than I would Question a Window concern-
ing a Sight. 1 look thro’ it and not with
it.
A book to be recommended, there-
fore : but it only just escapes being un-
readable.
Saint-Exupery's Latest.
Although he escaped injury while fly-
ing for the French against the Nazis and,
after the fall of France, found safety in
America, Antoine de Saint-Exupery is
clearly—in Flight to Arras (Heinemann ;
Angus and Robertson)—a war casualty
of a sort. Fine reading though it is,
Flight to Arras is far less exciting than
those previous masterpieces of heroic
adventure-writing Night Flight and
Wind, Sand and Stars.
In the days of peace, the airman who
attempted long and difficult journeys was
isolated, dramatic, an eagle in an empty
sky. And it was because he presented so
vividly that image of heroic isolation,
man’s struggle against vast elemental
forces, that Saint-Exupery’s earlier books
gave promise of the emergence of a Con-
rad of the air.
But what is a Conrad to do when every
ship is caught in a typhoon; what’s
Saint-Exupery to do when the sky is
crowded with heroes?
Instead of being yet another image of
the solitary adventure of the airman,
Flight to Arras, perhaps through no fault
of its author’s, becomes no more than one
war book among many, a description of
the sort of operational flight against
heavy odds which hundreds, maybe
thousands, of airmen made in France, in
the battle of Britain, in Greece, in Malaya
and the Indies and New Guinea.
Some book, it is certain, will be written
to stand as a monument to all the hero-
ism of the airmen in this war, just as
Typhoon stands for all the ships and all
the seamen who have fought against the
waves and the weather. Wind, Sand and
Stars was very nearly good enough to
stand for all the adventurers of the air
in peace-time. But Flight to Arras
doesn’t seem to be the book of the flier
in war.
The great book will have to find some
way of reminding its readers that the in-
credible devotion which has become nor-
mal, part of the ordinary news of the
day, is indeed incredible. Flight to Arras
occasionally achieves this. There is an
unforgettable description of heavy
flak:
Something in the countryside suddenly
exploded. So a log that seemed burnt out
crackles suddenly and shoots forth its
sparks. How did it happen that the whole
plain started up<at the same moment? Why
this luminous flood rising towards us and,
of a sudden, universal?... .We had been
swaying heavily through this blue swamp
already drowned in night. We had stirred
up this silent slime; and now, in tens of
thousands, it was sending towards us its
golden bubbles... .The bullets were trans-
formed into lightning. And I flew drowned
in a crop of trajectories as golden as stalks
of wheat. I flew at the centre of lance
strokes. I flew threatened by a vast and
dizzying flutter of knitting needles. All the
plain was now bound to me, woven and
woven round me, a coruscating web of
golden wire I was jolted nearly a foot
out of my seat. This was but the first
blow of a deluge of blows.
There is a description of a pilot who,
having to parachute from his burning
’plane, climbed to the wing and lay there
for what seemed eternity—“He had felt
nothing. He had time on his hands. He
was floating in a sort of infinite leisure.
And point by point I recognised the
extraordinary sensation that now and
then accompanies the imminence of
death —a feeling of unexpected leisure,
absolutely the contrary of the picture-
book notion of breathless haste. Sagon
had lain there on his wing, a creature
flung out of the dimension of time.”
There is this analysis of “the heat of
battle,” coming at a point when the
’plane has been hit by fire from the
ground: —•
During the second that followed the
shock 1 did not live in the expectancy of
death in the second to come, but in the
conviction of resurrection born of the
second just passed. I lived in a sort of
slipstream of joy, in the wake of my jubila-
tion. A prodigiously unlooked-for pleasure
was flowing through me. It was as if, with
each second that passed, life was being
granted me anew. As if with each second
that passed my life became a thing more
vivid to me. I was living. I was alive.
I was still alive. I was the source of life
itself. I was thrilled through with the in-
toxication of living. “The heat of battle”
is a familiar phrase; the heat of living is
a truer one. “I wonder,” I said to myself,
“if those Germans below who are firing at
us know that they are creating life within
us?”
And yet, in spite of these fine passages,
the book as a whole misses somewhere.
The success of Typhoon comes from the
simplicity of the skipper, so calm and
solid in the midst of the storm ; and from
the charming imbecility of the skipper’s
wife, so utterly unimaginative, so far
away from it all. That strong character-
isation and, still more importantly, that
strong contrast are what Flight to Arras
lacks. Instead of being more dramatic
than Night Flight —in which the aviator’s
wife brought poignance to the adventure
—this book, dealing with a far greater
theme, is less dramatic.
Besides being an account of the flight
to Arras, Saint-Exupery’s book is also an
analysis of the fall of France and an ad-
venture in metaphysics. In these last two
aspects —they are closely linked, the one
trying to analyse what makes a nation
more than a collection of people and the
other exploring man’s ability to transcend
himself—-it is wholly pleasing. The
conclusion reached in both cases is
summed up in the metaphor “A cathedral
is more than the sum of its stones.”
De la Mare and Shakspeare .
Walter de la Mare’s fairy play for
children Crossings has been republished
by Faber with drawings by Gwendolen
Raverat.
Crossings is the sort of book to
be given to a child for a birth-
day, then borrowed and not returned.
Fundamentally an attack on repression, it
achieves its end not by propaganda, but
simply by demonstrating what fun and
what poetry there are in children when
they escape from a repressive atmosphere.
Caged by a severe Aunt Agatha—drawn
with delightful humor —De la Mare’s
youngsters are at last set free to live by
themselves in an old house in the country
where they meet the Butcher, the Baker
and the Candlestick-maker, tramps,
rustics, fairies, a ghost, a cabman, a
vicar, the lady of the manor and so on,
and where, eating enormously and play-
ing as they please, they enjoy themselves
as never before.
De la Mare’s fairy world is sometimes
an attractive aberration, amounting
at its greatest intensity to a genuine
poetic “revelation”; sometimes, as in
a good deal of this play—wherein
nearly all the characters have a
habit of swooning off into mystical rows
of dots —it is forced. But, even if one
sends the fairies packing, there are still
the delights of gay, witty dialogue, the
sprinkling of verses and the spirit of joy
in which the play as a whole is con-
structed.
Crossings is a clear illustration of the
debt De la Mare owes to the Eliza-
bethans. Echoes of “The Tempest” are
everywhere ; and both the song and the
dialogue in the following quotation spring
straight from Shakspeare :
The carter cracks his leathery whip;
The ostler shouts gee-whoa;
The farm dog grunts and sniffs and snuffs;
Bleat sheep and cattle blow.
Soon Moll and Nan in dreams are laid
And snoring Dick’s asleep;
Then, still, O; dale and hill, O;
Snow’s fall’n deep.
Mr. B.: A good song, a rare good song; and
as neat a brace of nightingales as ever I heard.
Rough, but tunesome. I warrant the sound
on’t trilled the air for miles around.
Mr. H.: A rare song, a powerful song. And
that pipe, too; somethin’ i’ the natur’ of a
flage’let, I take it. Mrs. Honeyman’s uncle
Israel, now, rest his soul, was a sore spry per-
former on the French horn.
SUNDRY SHOWS.
“Mac Hoots”: The par. by “C.Q.”
about an exhibition of the works of dead
and living artists in Melbourne (B.
22/9/ ’43) appears to have been written
during an outburst of homicidal fury.
With one stroke of the typewriter “C.Q.”
slew Lister Lister and Victor Zelman,
both of whom are alive, well and paint-
ing. There would be no harm in includ-
ing these artists among the immortals,
but really there was no need to assassinate
them in order to pay that respect to their
works.
“A.W.”: Bulletin war cartoons by
Norman Lindsay and Ted Scorfield are at
History House, Sydney, in a show organ-
ised for patriotic funds by the Royal
Historical Society of Australia. Very dif-
ferent in style and outlook, both artists
keep a firm hold on the common touch.
Lindsay, though he plans his designs very
often in the spacious manner of a Wil-
liam Blake or a Raphael, can wink while
standing on his loftiest pinnacle. His
long experience with devils has served
him well in depictions of Nazism, and
his “Gone into Action,” showing Bar-
tholdi’s Liberty hopping off her pedestal
to wade into the fray, was an intelligent
prophecy in February, 1941, of what was
to happen less than a year later. Scor-
field, who shoots at smaller targets, hits
the bull’s-eye just as surely. His “Pals,”
the story of the dog who was the last to
say good-bye to his A.I.F. master, is
characteristic in its good-tempered, quiet
humor. Some drawings by Percy Lind-
say, G. K. Townshend and others gar-
nish the main exhibits, and a small selec-
tion of 1914-18 war cartoons includes one
by Low.
A show by Rupert Bunny of pleasant
landscapes in the South of France is at
Sydney Macquarie Galleries. Monotypes
of figure subjects such as “The Fountain
of Venus” and “Bacchanalia” recall the
days when the painter was pre-eminent
among Australians in this field, as some
splendid canvases in the N. S. Wales
Gallery testify.
The judges for the Adelaide Society of
Arts spring show (Heysen and McCub-
bin) made no award for the annual Mel-
rose prize for figure-painting. The
National Gallery bought a crayon by
Steward and a pencil-drawing by Boxall.
The Society of Arts itself awards its land-
scape prize to a powerful Centralian scene
by Max Ragless.
At the talkies:
“Yankee Doodle Dandy” (New Tatler) and
“Wings and the Woman”' (Embassy), two
current Sydney releases, offer a contrast in
biographical films. The dandy was George M.
Cohan, Irish-American actor-producer and the
biggest noise in the U.S. theatre in his day—
and it was a long day. Beautifully produced,
the story sparkles all the way, with James
Cagney giving a lively interpretation of the
forceful producer, and that fine actor Walter
Huston as his vaudevillian father. The woman
with wings is Amy Johnson, and the film skims
the aviatrix’s career, aerial and matrimonial,
with all the famous barneys with husband Jim
Mollison thrown in. Mollison is portrayed with
extraordinary frankness. But it is more a
soporific than an entertainment.
Two war items are “Five Graves to Cairo”
(Prince Edward) and “Stand By for Action”
(St. James). The second is a pleasant farce
about the rescue of a boatload of babies by
a patrolling destroyer, Charles Laughton play-
ing a peppery admiral. “Five Graves to Cairo"
was written by the Hungarian refugee playwright
Lajos Biro, a volume of whose plays was
praised on the Red Page some time ago. A
story of the desert war in which Rommel’s
plans for invading Cairo are revealed to a
British corporal mistaken for a Nazi agent, it is
ingeniously constructed and convincingly
played. Erich von Stroheim is an effective
Rommel.
-The especial war-time virtue of the
Ferber-Kaufman play (miscalled a
comedy) “Stage Door,” running at Syd-
ney Independent Theatre, is that it pro-
vides speaking parts and an opportunity
of wearing night attire for a score of
girls. The affair is held together mainly by
Jessica Noad and Leonard Sullen. Elaine
Foster, who has the makings of a
comedienne, gets some of the Kauf-
manian wisecracks across the footlights.
Crowning mercy is that there are no
comic bits for the burnt-cork negro ser-
vants.
“Curtin Raiser”: The theatregoer who
craves more solid nourishment than “The
Girl Friend” and her rich and poor re-
lations has to be content with small
mercies these days, and two of them are
“Watch on the Rhine,” lately started on
a run at the Comedy, Melbourne, and
Claude Flemming, leading man in the
production. Flemming is a sterling actor,
capable of keeping an audience’s interest
focused on him, but there were plenty
of histrions who could do that once. In
more robust days Lillian Heilman’s story
of the German anti-Nazi who is black-
mailed in the house of his wife’s mother
by a blackguardly Rumanian count
would have been classified as fair aver-
age drama bordering on melodrama. In
these degenerate days it seems almost
Shakspearean. Flemming does, in fact,
give the brooding horror of the situation
of the anti-terrorist who fights terror with
counter-terror, and that part of the play
is feelingly written. Where Irish play-
wrights like Sean O’Casey who dealt with
the same theme could have shown Miss
Heilman something is in the matter of
the anti-Nazi’s wife and family. O’Casey
would have ironically revealed a more
profound conflict going on between wife
and husband than between the husband
and his political opponents. The Ameri-
can wife is a stereotype which smells of
war propaganda.


"TRUTH IN ADVERTISING"
ANTHONY HORDERNS'
120th Year of Service
,33018 HOIN3S 3HI,
EfflajaKtaßoa
0333
m
tmi
Mm
m
sk>£
;• /
m
m
mm
m
»S>»f
&2s
--
Short Curtain Net with scallopec
base. A product of Nottingham's.
In Biscuit shade. No coupons.
Sizes ... 21" 24" 27" 30"
Prices .. 3/9 3/11 4/6 4/11
Taffeta Cushions with quilted or
ruched tops. In shades of Green,
Rust, Wine, Fawn or Peach. No
coupons. Price, each 22/6
48" Tapestry, obtainable in Rust,
or Brown. For curtains or loose
covers. No coupons. Price, yd. 12/6
16-inch Parchment Lamp Shades,
tinted in tones of Blue, Rose,
Orange, and Green. Hand
painted floral design with har-
monising silk fringe around the
base. Price, each 7/11
f
Nottingham Lace Bedspreads with
panel top and gathered flounce
and mock bolster effect. In Cream.
No coupons. Price 77/6
• Soft furnishings-
Third Floor .
500 pairs of White Crossover Curtains,
frilled all round, with frilled valance
attached, complete with tiebacks.
6 feet deep. No coupons. Price pair .. 37/6
YOUR CARPETS
ARE PRECIOUS!
New Carpets are difficult to procure owing
to shortage of raw material'and lack of ship-
ping space. These conditions must continue
for some time yet, so wise people will
see to it that their carpets are protected
‘and preserved.
HOW TO PRESERVE CARPETS
Carpets should be beaten periodically. Stair
Carpet should be moved so that the wear
will be even and regular. Carpet Squares
that are showing signs of wear near door-
ways, etc., require to be turned so that the
wearing parts are moved where less wear
occurs.
We will be pleased to Quote for
Altering and Repairing Carpets
Also for Shampooing Carpets
We are specialists in Carpet Cleaning! Our
hygienic process removes every particle of
dirt, leaving carpets fresh and bright.
Our modern method of carpet cleaning will
prolong the life of your carpets and achieves
far better results than are possible by any
means at your disposal.
We Collect and Re-Deliver your
Carpets Free in the Metropolitan
Area
Prices for Carpet Cleaning . . . from 6d.
sq. yd. for beating and 1/6 sq. yd. for
shampooing.
Indian Carpets and heavy Axminsters from
2/3 sq. yd.
'Phone Carpet Cleaning Section, Fourth
Floor, or write and leave the rest to us.
ANTHONY
FAMOUS
PHONE: M 2401 (DAY AND NIGHT)
HORDERNS'
LOW PRICES
BOX 2712 C. G.P.0., SYDNEY


BILL IN THE BUSY SEASON
By S.D.B.
MR. FOLEY
was a
cocky;
that is, a
man who had
managed to stay on the land in spite of
the State Bank and the Farmers’ Assist-
ance Board. It was Mr. Foley whom
we saw sometimes on Tuesday and Fri-
day—market days—and occasionally at
church on Sundays.
He became “Bill” at his own insistence
when I went to work for him. “Mr.
Foley?” he said. “I’ve never heard of
the . My name’s Bill.”
When Dad came home from work with
the information that Bill Foley was look-
ing for a lad to drive the header I went
down the street immediately to look for
him. He had left his old Ford truck at
the garage to have a valve-cap replaced
on a front tube, so that he could rush
home for another load of barley before
dark. In the meantime he was visiting
relatives. His wife was a sister to the
local hotelkeeper, and Bill took his con-
nection with the family very seriously—
he never failed to “pop in” or “pop over”
to pay his respects if he happened to be
anywhere within fifteen miles.
When I poked my head around the bar
door I gathered that he was just about
to “dash off,” so I hung around for about
an hour and a half till he came out, with
a rather watery twinkle in his eye, to tell
me I was just the man he needed and to
meet him early the following morning at
the wheat yards.
“You can pick me up on the first load,
bright and early, and we’ll get six loads
tomorrow.”
I rushed home to bundle some things
together; and when the gates opened
at 7 a.m. a string of teamsters and
loaded trucks were already there, wait-
ing in ragged formation: but no sign of
Bill. ft
I passed the time away until eleven
leading the whip horse. Bill and the
Ford bustled in and, to show how keen I
was, I jumped up to help unload. There
was no time to be wasted in such a busy
season.
AT dinner that night I met “the
Missus.” Seeing them together at the
table for the first time, so strangely,
almost comically different, I could not
rid myself of a feeling of being an audi-
ence at a play. On rny knowing them
better they appeared a well-balanced
combination.
Bill was short, bowlegged and very
Irish. Fine wrinkles paralleled a fore-
head, half brown, half astonishingly
white when his hat was removed. They
appeared to lift his brow in an expres-
sion of perpetual surprise, and the
absurd, perverse cowlick above them
added an elfin boyishness. He had great
bushy eyebrows and a ready grin. His
dungaree overalls were paled by the
energetic hands of his wife, and always
looked in their freshness as if they had
been “popped on” to milk the cows on
Sunday night.
The Missus—half a head taller and
always solemn —seemed -to look on all
male doings, especially Bill’s, with latent
reproof. Bill had a wholesome
for her perspicacity, but underestimated
it. He would pick up his hat from the
corner of the kitchen almost in the move-
ment of throwing it there or remove his
feet from the table at the sound of her
brisk step on the verandah.
j T was mainly at her insistence that we
* relinquished the more frivolous task
of carting the barley to a carrier and
concentrated on harvesting the wheat. 1
can’t say I was sorry, for in loading the
truck in the paddock the labor was fairly
evenly distributed ; but in the town Bill
invariably had a message to deliver to
his brother-in-law. I suppose I am as
dumb as the next, but it always wounded
me a little that he never varied the story.
With about two hundred acres of
wheat to harvest, Bill had tq rely on
machine breakages to justify a trip in.
He came to a special working arrange-
ment with the driving arm and chain on
the thresher to break at fairly regular in-
tervals. “You can go up the back pad-
dock and hoe some thistles. I’ll slip in
and get this fixed and be back around
lunchtime. When you hear the tractor
start up you’ll know I’m back.”
I set to work brightly enough the first
time.
With the hoe on my shoulder and a
lunch pack .in my hand I skirted the
wheat paddock for a first view of the
thistles —sixty acres of them as thick as
they could stick, and nothing but the
feeble efforts of a few hares to discourage
them. The sun stared down with a fixity
that held no compromise, and the pros-
pect of hacking at them till dark, with
only a break for lunch, unnerved me. I
realised Bill would never purposely do
this to anyone —he really thought he
would be back before lunch. A bloke
could not even be annoyed with one
whose intentions were so good ; I cleared
enough of the legion to lie down and
think about it, scraping a hollow here
and there for comfort.
Lunchtime came and went, and the
slight coolness of evening woke me up.
The sun had softened and lowered and
long since given up the ghost, so I smiled
at him in friendly fashion as I gathered
up my belongings to head back to the
house. I smote several thistles to the
ground in triumph as I stepped it out.
The Missus was an excellent cook for a
farmer’s wife, and with her husband a
firm believer in hearty eating there was
only encouragement in the matter of
second helpings. Gosh! I was hungry!
SEVERAL days went by before the
next inevitable break. How the
strength of the chain waned with Bill’s
rising urge to visit the harmonious bosom
of his wife’s family is possibly an in-
teresting mathematical problem for some
starry-eyed scientist of the future. Being
small-minded myself, I leant to the theory
that the 21b. hammer in the tool-kit had
something to do with the matter. I say
tool-kit, but it consisted (besides the
hammer) of two spanners. They were
to take off the offending chain. This
was, of course, not incriminating in it-
self —the tool-kits of the Foley type of
farmer are seldom better endowed.
The thought of doing more time with
the thistles was terrible. Even a book,
a reasonable enjoyment of my own com-
pany and a propensity for sleeping in
the sun have their limits.
A hereditary engineering conscience
bothered me a little, and I suggested this
time that the cost of continual replace-
ment was considerably in excess of the
cost of a new chain. Bill said, with more
vehemence than I had reckoned on,
“Mind your own b business!”
He got the idea I was deliberately try-
ing to crab his carefully-fostered access
to freedom. However, being essentially
a man of understanding, and perhaps
realising my growing objection to thistles,
he suggested that I sew a few bags while
he was away.
I could have swung a full kick at my-
self. Hoeing thistles in a paddock where
a lifetime of work would show only
eventual victory for the thistles was one
thing and sewing bags in a stack where
every one was visible was too much like
a really good day’s work for pleasant
reflection. Bill had said to me at the
table after my first day of hoeing “I’m
never worried about the amount of work
anyone would do out in the paddock ;
they get too sick of their own company
to loaf too much.”
Anyhow, he queered his own pitch, this
trip. He brought home with him several
chaps who were also visiting his relatives,
and made the shocking faux pas of bring-
ing something to keep their spirits up. A
merry party sat down to dinner that night
under the unwinking gaze of the Missus.
Bill was somehow reluctant to let them
say good night. '
I could feel righteous wrath welling up
as the departure culminated in back-
banging and step-tripping and the rapid
fading of uproarious voices into the
night. The hum of well-directed diatribe
drifted the fifty yards or so separating my
sleeping quarters from the house for more
than an hour, and Bill stuck to harvesting
for over a week in consequence.
It averaged out, even so. The next
time he went to town the Missus had to
go and fetch him in the buggy, and he
took two days to recover,
npHE crops were deceiving that year.
1 Chest-high and long-eared from heavy
finishing rains, they gave every outward
indication of heavy yield; but, as is often
the case, the quick spring heat produced
that good-season bane “red rust.” Lovely
upstanding crops of Gallipoli, Ghurka
and Ford, apparently good for ten bags
at least, yielded, three and four to the
acre of shrivelled, chaffy husks.
We came in off the machines like
coppery Indians. The floury dust filled
noses and eyes and covered every square
inch of skin. Water was not laid on, and
the small tank outside my hut would not
allow for more than one bath in the
horse-trough per week. After a while
the skin ceased prickling, and I could be
comfortable with washing only visible
parts before eating and retiring.
On the first of three memorable days
during those six weeks Bill caught his
leg in the thresher-drive of the header
and sacked me on the spot because I
could not stop laughing.
He always wore long underpants, thick
trousers and blue dungaree overalls in
any weather, and the sudden ripping jerk
had torn the lot off clean below the right
knee, leaving him for all the world like
Robinson Crusoe. It ripped the sock out
of his boot as well, and left him very
little of *skin from ankle to thigh ; but
from his yelling like a demented dervish
I sensed he was not seriously damaged.
How difficult it is to control laughter
when once it bursts bounds and rockets
forth! The remainder of that difficult
afternoon it bubbled persistently in my
chest, and, under the shadow of dismissal,
I kept my face averted as we worked
side by side emptying the hopper and
dumping the bags at the end of each
round.
I went to dinner that night wondering
what would be said at home when I told
them I had been fired. It was paper
day—the Missus had been into town to
shop, and Bill was sitting at the table
with his face buried ip the news.
He was not reading and I took my
place opposite, waiting for the scowl he
had maintained all afternoon to appear.
Presently, as if neither of us could stand
the strain any longer, he lowered the
shield at the moment I lifted my head to
glance in his direction. His blue Irish
eyes had taken on their best twinkle, and
for half an hour at least we treated the
Missus to some of the most helpless male
hysterics she is ever likely to hear.
THE demon to be most feared during
harvest is fire, and its menace is present
in the subconscious every minute. Every-
thing so dry, a piece of glass in the sun
could touch off an inferno.
We had finished the Ford and were now
working on the Gallipoli, Round the
outer edge, on the far side, ran a line of
mallee scrub bordering the road. Upon
instructions to keep close in I determined
not to miss an ear. I had by this time
grown not a little keen on myself as a
hairbreadth manipulator, and I suffered
a rude jolt. While I was running well
up into the corner and spinning the
wheel in the last minute at the turn, the
exhaust, boxed in with fine wire mesh to
stifle sparks, caught in the overhanging
branches and shed its flaky red-hot shale
into the spindly stalks on the edge of the
crop.
Again the earsplitting yell, and I had
a picture of Bill leaping from the header
with his coat almost off in mid-air.
He flayed the whole area into a dust
cloud and fanned the strongest of the
sparks into quick flame. Luckily the
wind was .blowing strongly toward the
scrub, and we toiled for half an hour with
less frenZy and more effect to beat it out.
When it was over Bill merely said
“That was b close” ; and we sat
down in the shade, wiping our faces, to
drink some tea.
After a long silence I asked if I was
going to* be paid for helping to put the
fire out, and he realised he had rendered
me jobless in the first yell. He looked at
me for a long minute, then said with a
grin “You’re a cheeky little b . One
of these days somebody will kick your
b- brains out!”
THE third time Bill did not actually
mention the boot —he just looked at
me with his hands on his hips and the
speechless impotence that is, at times, so
close to bursting laughter burning from
him.
It was Monday, and I had arrived back
from the week-end in town with my
mind not on work.
All morning we bumped and swayed
and jolted endlessly round the diminish-
ing wheat crop. After lunch I brightened
momentarily, which must have been my
undoing, for I woke up amid a crashing
of machinery and the howling of Bill.
The tractor was slumped at an impos-
sible angle in a deep crabhole, and the
machine and Bill were looking down at
me accusingly from the brink. The tubu-
lar section constituting the power-drive
was hanging down like a .despondent
garden hose, slowly leaking oil.
I could sense Bill desperately weigh-
ing the situation —the area of crop left;
the possibility of getting someone else
to finish, etc.
The scale must have barely tipped in
my favor; for he said at last “Don’t sit
there like ab ; goat; drive her out! ”
We hitched the header from behind and
dragged her back from the brink. I
backed the tractor carefully and Bill slid
the sieeve back on. the splined shaft.
Two bolts
needed replacing,
and Bill went to
town with a now
feigned truculence
to get them.
WE finished a week later, and he
drove me into town and handed me
my last pay in the main street.
“Hang around a minute,” he said,
“and I’ll drop you off home.”
I watched his bandy legs swing him
along the footpath towards his brother-
in-law’s with a grin inside me saying “I’ll
be home long before you come out of
there” ; but I had barely time to drag my
case from behind the seat and disen-
tangle it from the broken pump before
he was back, bustling for the handle, ad-
justing the levers on the steering-wheel
and swinging Liz into action, “lust a
message to deliver from the Missus.”
We shook hands awkwardly at the
front gate. We were both suddenly
conscious that our easy familiarity was
ended. It flashed on me that I was going
back to high school next week and that
he had somehow become Mr. Foley
again. I would see hiim sometimes on
Tuesdays and Fridays—market days—-
and occasionally at church on Sundays.
Malekula War.
By J. H. M. ABBOTT .
NOT until maybe a score of years
after it is over will the ordinary
Australian know anything about
the dozens of little local wars
which the present immense struggle
enfolds. The small wars that occurred
in the New Hebrides in 1916 and 1918
whilst all the world battled elsewhere have
never been generally known outside two
Admiralties.
The inhabitants of the island of Male*
kula, who had always been pretty hos-
tile to Europeans, had been annoyed by
some kidnapping of native labor which
had gone unpunished by the Dual Con-
trol authorities of Britain and France,
so they slaughtered a British planter
named Bridges and a few half-castes of
French nationality.
A punitive expedition was arranged,
and H.M.A.S. Una —lately the German
Government yacht Komet —was sent to
assist the French ,gunboat Kersaint in
taking it out of them. She joined the
Kersaint at Port Vila on October 22,
1916, and when the ships arrived off the
scene of the recent murders it was recog-
nised that some pretty hard bush fighting
would be inevitable. So a combined
force of detachments from the two war-
ships and from the British and French
native police, was landed. It was quaintly
commanded by a sort of committee, con-
sisting of the British and French Com-
missioners and the commanding officers
of the Una and Kersaint.
In the engagement that took place the
losses of the Malekulans were consider-
able, whilst the expedition had seven
native police killed and one wounded.
One Australian seaman was also
wounded. The murderers’ village was
burnt, and the ships withdrew to Vila.
Though the Malekulans didn’t know it,
they had really won hands down, for the
captain of the Una and almost half his
crew were badly knocked out by malaria.
For about two years there was peace
of sorts in the group, until the Malekulans
killed a French planter by way of airing
their grievances, and it was decided to
give them another dusting. So H.M.A.S.
Fantome was sent from Suva to Vila,
where a conference was held between the
two Commissioners and the warship’s
captain, and it was decided to land a
punitive expedition at Malua Bay, where
the murderers were supposed to be.
On the morning of October 6, 1918,
sixty-five of the Fantome’s officers and
men, with six French settlers and eighteen
armed native scouts, landed in the bay
and fought quite a little battle.
The force had to climb a 300 ft. cliff,
up which it hauled a couple of machine-
guns, in order to seize a hilltop which
dominated the village of Malua. It was
decided to give the natives a chance of
surrendering the murderers, and a plucky
French volunteer tried to get into touch
with the villagers. But the natives on the
hills shouted out to the latter that sur-
renderers would be dealt with. So the
scrap was on. For a time a heavy fire
was kept up by the machine-gunners, and
then a storming party of the Fantome’s
men cleared the hills with the bayonet,
doing considerable damage to the natives
who opposed them. Then the expedition
withdrew to the beach, having appar-
ently made some impression, for they
were not troubled by snipers during their
march to the boats through the dense
tropical jungle.
There ended the second phase of the
little war which nobody heard of in the
rumpus and flurry of the big one.


The Bulletin
Vol, 64.—N0. 3321.
Wednesday, October 6, 1943.
SAMSON IN REVERSE.


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper
“Australia for the White Man”
Directors:
H. K. Prior J. E. Webb
P. H. Prior David Adams
HEAD OFFICE: 252 George Street. Sydney:
Box 2521 BB; ’Phone 87971.
Victoria: Newspaper House, 247-249 Collins
Street, Melbourne.
Queensland: 239 Adelaide Street, Brisbane,
Westralia : 33 Barrack Street, Perth.
New Zealand : Nathan’s Buildings ( opp.
G.P.0.), Wellington.
London : 1 Hare Place, 47 Fleet Street,
London. E.C.4.
PLANNING UTOPIA.
With Mr. Ward rearing to go to Papua
with “social betterment” in his pocket for
“Fuzzy-Wuzzy angels,” and Dr. Lloyd
Ross appointed to assist Dr. H. C.
Coombs in arranging Australia’s post-
war future on approved socialist lines,
and Senator Tangney bent on providing
a job, a “good” house and a pension for
everybody “through the Commonwealth
Bank,” Australia will probably soon be
rivalling the U.S.A. as a stamping ground
for the planners of Utopia.
There will be some leeway to make up.
The U.S.A. is estimated to have already
upwards of 200 associations, foundations,
committees and commissions, official and
unofficial, hard at work hatching. One
of them has had submitted to it 1200
schemes. As well, there are the differing
dreams of scores of freelance planners.
Plans range from enforced church at-
tendance to* mass sterilisation. They in-
clude furnishing everybody in the world
—the entire 2,230,000,000—with any-
thing from a quart of fresh milk every
morning to the complete Four Freedoms.
They contemplate the rehabilitation of all
the world’s homeless, the repossession of
all things the Nazis and Japs have
pinched, the re-education of these people
till they coo like Noah’s dove, the delous-
ing of untold millions against pestilence.
They visualise an international police
force run by a Union of Nations —“police
force” since “army, navy and air force”
might scare off wavering isolationists, and
“Union” since “League” is held to be
slightly tainted. There is even a vision
of a world Government.
And plans for the punishing of war
criminals, apart from what may be done
in the same line unofficially, without bene-
fit of trial, would, if realised, hang a
scoundrel by the neck from every lamp-
post right across Europe. As for Asia,
Dr. Sun Fo, President of the Legislative
Yuan of the Chinese Government, has
suggested that all Jap officers above the
rank of major-general should be shot, all
above the rank of lieutenant imprisoned
for life, and all n.c.os. dispersed to other
(unspecified) lands and given hard labor.
Big names figure in the ranks of the
U.S. planners, among them that of Mr.
Willkie, who announced in Chungking
last October that “Madame Chiang Kai-
shek and I are going to howl and howl
for the right kind of world when this
war is over so that all nations can be free
and seek their own aspirations.” All ?
Well, some! Not perhaps the Baltic
States, Eastern Poland, Bessarabia, por-
tion of Finland and Northern Iran, which,
according to Hanson Baldwin, “can be
assumed to be Russia’s minimum terri-
torial ambitions.”
Mr. Willkie’s post-war aims—including
some amendments to the British Empire,
though Mr. Churchill growls back in his
gruff bulldog voice “What we have we
hold!” —have been bound in volume
form with those of Mr. Hoover, Mr. Wal-
lace and Mr. Welles. One who read the
book summed up on these other three to
the effect that Mr. Hoover seems ready
to forgive and forget the history of Ger-
many since 1914, “reserving such anim-
adversions as he permits himself for
wicked militaristic nations like Czecho-
slovakia” ; Mr. Wallace is sure that “this
is the century of the common man” ; and
Mr. Welles submits that all people have
a right to equal economic enjoyment.
There are others, Americans, who stare
and question “ideas of planning that
are appalling in their scope and the mag-
nificence of expenditure they imply.”
In particular, and especially, they ques-
tion the various schemes for a World
Government, with its Parliament, Court
and “police force.” They point to the
large number of people who “simply
don’t believe in the Utopia, much less
in collectivism as a road to it.” They
protest that after the wars all countries
“will face a long and difficult process of
restoring a normal state of things.”
As to this, one questioner, glancing
across the Atlantic, notes that Britain
after the war will not only face
a shortage of capital, but with
its foreign assets gone will have
to search for new methods of financ-
ing the imports of food and raw materials
which it cannot produce at home. “This
is likely to have a bearing on Britain’s
ability to finance the Beveridge plan.”
Another questioner regards the whole
planning front as providing a “heyday
for the professional economists, who can
sit around and think great thoughts and
get paid for it.” Another declares that
the average American is uneasy about the
training of Americans at the University
of Virginia and elsewhere “to run Europe
and other foreign parts on U.S. models.”
Another: “Most of us can visualise
American soldiers telling Germans and
Japanese where to get off, or American
airplanes bombing out secret arms plants
in countries which refuse to submit to
the Good and the Beautiful. But an
international police force telling us where
to get off seems absurd and outrageous.”
Among the planners themselves there
are wide differences on such matters
as Mr. Wallace’s aspiration to “decon-
taminate Axis educational systems.” Who
will do the educating, and, along with it,
the governing? Not, says one, members
of the Governments-in-exile, who “may
have lost prestige with the people who
stayed at home and took the Nazi and
Jap tyrannies on the chin,” One of the
most prominent exiles in the U.S.A. has
declared that it “would be wiser to pass
a law forbidding any exile to return to
Germany than to return them to Ger-
many as the agents of the victors.”
One notable weakness all the planners
appear to share in common —a belief that
the war’s ending will bring no change in
the present ruling mood of people in the
Allied countries. On the “evidence” of
“polls” 80 per cent, of Americans at this
moment favor active, effective co-opera-
tion with other nations after the war,
“even if such co-operation takes the form
of a World Federation.” Identical “evi-
dence” could no doubt be amassed by the
same means here, though there would
possibly be a different result in both
countries if the poll-takers sought to
measure how much of sovereign rights
Australians and Americans would be
prepared to hand over.
The U.S. House of Representatives has
approved the Fulbright resolution by
300 votes to 29. In effect, the House ex-
pressed itself as favoring “the creation
of appropriate international machinery
with power adequate to establish and to
maintain a just and lasting peace.” A
fault with this resolution, apart from its
being a vague generality, is that in the
U.S.A. it is not the House but the Senate
which can check and nullify the Presi-
dent’s power to “make treaties.”
That Senate has been cautiously con-
sidering eight resolutions favoring post-
war internationalism, but has passed
none of them. Its Foreign Relations
Subcommittee has “decided to pigeon-
hole the Fulbright resolution.” And since
a two-thirds majority of the Senate is
necessary for the ratifying of treaties 33
members will have the power to send the
entire hatching of all the planners to the
garbage-tip if they feel so inclined.
No doubt this is unlikely— at present.
Probably there will be a resolution on
internationalism as open and vague as
that passed by the House. The testing
will come when it is necessary to trans-
late that vagueness into concrete commit-
ments, with the shadow of Mars no
longer present to influence the decision.
Certainly unless there is to be positive
and effective American co-operation all
the planners everywhere might as well
give up planning now. The U.S. decision,
when it is made, will certainly be condi-
tioned by what other countries, notably
Russia, are prepared to agree to, and
also by what may then be the prevailing
mood of the American people—like that
of Australians apd all other people on
earth, anything but a fixed quantity.
As to Russia, there have been differences
already. Stalin last November stated:
“It is not our [Russia’s] aiaa to destroy
all military force in Germany.” He added
that to attempt the compulsory disarma-
ment of a defeated Germany would not
only be “impossible” but also “inadvis-
able from the point of view of the victor.”
But in the eighth point of the Atlantic
Charter President Roosevelt and Mr.
Churchill agreed that disarming the
aggressor nations “is essential.” And
Soviet territorial ambitions as stated in
Moscow publications conflict with the
Anglo-Soviet Treaty, as well as with the
Covenant of the League, to which the
British Commonwealth is still committed.
As to popular moods one observer
suggests that when the war ends there
may be “a considerable amount of
disillusionment and distrust of former
allies, plus a temptation to drift back into
old and more familiar ways.” Disillu-
sionment there* almost surely will be, and
untold trouble with it, if the rosy promises
of the planners, not only of a brave
new world and peace everlasting, but of
all that is being held out in the name of
“social security,” fail to materialise.
The great majority of people, another
observer expects, will reply with an em-
phatic “No” if they are asked to carry
on in peace-time under the rationing,
taxes and other inflictions they now
loyally accept as part of the war effort.
Yet it appears to be the fixed assumption
of the whole legion of planners that the
reply will be a docile “Yes.”
There are other very considerable
assumptions, one of the largest being
that, with Hitler defeated, the Allied
Nations can go right ahead on an equal
footing applying the chosen plan to
Europe, This conveniently, not to say
blindly, overlooks that, with Germany
knocked out, Russia will have no com-
mitment to fight Japan, which could mean
that Britain and America might still have
to wage,-a hard war while Russia would
be the one strong nation at peace.
All in all, the projectors of the Brave
New World, the Green Pastures, the Mil-
lennium would appear to be a little pre-
mature. When all the busy hatching
is over a strong British Empire, close-
linked in all its own parts and associated
with a strong America, may remain the
best plan of all for a reasonably durable
peace and for a fair measure of security.
Bairoko, New Georgia.
John Brennan to The Bulletin:
Bairoko harbor was the Japanese supply base
for New Georgia. Scene on July 20 of a
bitter experience for two Marine Raider bat-
talions, it was occupied by American troops on
the morning of August 25. New Georgia was
secure then; except for a few stragglers in
the Pirn plantation area on the north-western
tip, no Jap remained alive on the island.
At Lambeti plantation and through all the
country guarding the Munda airstrip the enemy
had pillboxes and dugouts dug to a depth of
12ft. to 15ft., roofed over with a sft. thickness
of crisscrossed palm logs and covered above
that with 3ft. of coral. They were linked to
'each other and to machine-gun and anti-aircraft
positions by tunnels and by entrances on each
side, and they were taken, after almost continual
bombardment from sea and air, at a high cost.
At Bairoko the defences were even more
solidly constructed. There is a ridge of coral
guarding the land approaches to the village, an
outcrop 15ft. to 20ft. high and almost 120yds.
in length. It was honeycombed with dugouts
and gun positions, checkered with slits for
machine-guns and rifles. It is stained green
with the weather and with moss, and so
camouflaged by nature as to be scarcely dis-
cernible 50ft. away through the jungle. The
huge jutting roots of the banyan-trees had been
roofed over with logs and coral, and the earth
between them excavated to form compartments.
One such tree might shelter 30 men. The
bivouac area could have contained a regiment.
Indeed the Japanese might have held out in
Bairoko for many more days. They would have
undoubtedly inflicted heavy losses on the attack-
ing force in killed and wounded. As in distant
Kiska they chose not to do so.
The assault was ready for mounting. Field
artillery had been hauled through the hills
from l Munda, dragged through the mud of
mountain trails and swiftly-made roads. The
guns were ranged on the harbor. Two bat-
talions of the 161st infantry had pushed on
through the jungle to the western shore. Barge
activity had been noticed from the village the
previous night. The barrage was timed to be-
gin on Tuesday night, August 24. Then at 5.45
Colonel Liversedge, who had commanded the
combined force of army companies of the 145th
infantry and the Marine battalions which had
made the original assault, sent word that his
patrols were on the eastern tip of the harbor
and had reached the water below the village.
The artillery was called for. Arrangements
were made to hit at any barges with mortar fire,
but there was no activity through the night.
Next mornipg the patrols went on into the
village and linked up. Bairoko was deserted.
The army had come a long, hard way to
Bairoko and to the end of the New Georgia
campaign. After Munda the chase led back
into the mountains, following knee-deep in mud
along the line of the valleys. The resistance on
any large and organised scale was broken, but
conditions here were harder on the troops who
had the task of cleaning out the area. There
were several sharp, brisk engagements —at Zieta
and out towards Piru—and there was the con-
tinual threat of ambush and of snipers to the
forward, scouting patrols. Here there was
dense jungle. Visibility was limited to a few
yards on each side of the trail.
For four days it rained incessantly. The
infantrymen pushed slowly on. Their clothes
hung sodden from their shoulders. Everything
they had with them was wet through. There
was seldom the chance of hot food; the only
way they might rest and escape the mud was
to prop themselves against the roots of trees.
They wfcre sick with dysentery and malaria.
There was the dank, fetid, rotting smell of the
jungle, the indescribable stench of the Jap
bivouac areas strewn with piles of abandoned
food and clothing. Flies were everywhere,
fighting for every piece of food as the men
raised it to their mouths.
The Jap bivouac areas were cunningly placed
and concealed. One of the largest, close to
Munda, was not discovered until after the land
forces had moved on past the strip and the
first line of hills; it occupied both steep
hillsides of a narrow defile. Here, as every-
where, the most noticeable feature was the
strength of the dugouts and machine-gun em-
placements controlling the approaches. Through-
out New Georgia the enemy cunningly adapted
natural features to camouflage.
Engineers followed close behind the infantry
troops, driving jeeps which proved once more
that they are capable of going almost anywhere.
Making roads as they went, they climbed the
sides of hills, hung precariously in places,
then slithered down beyond. Bulldozers,
graders, scrapers were constantly at work; in
places where the ruts were so deep that the
axles bedded down in the mud, and more mud
piled up in front of the radiator, bulldozers
came in behind the jeeps and shoved them
through. Truckmen brought coral from the
pits where great diesel shovels scooped it out
and spread it on the roads. In places scrapers
(and jeeps) had dug roadways sft. below the
level of the surrounding country without find-
ing a bottom.
The day after the airfield was secure con-
struction battalions were at work on the strip.
Naval men, these Sea Bees, all with long tech-
nical experience, their equipment is astounding
in quality and variety, and their reputation is
secure throughout the South Pacific. There are
stories of occasions when Sea Bees landed on
enemy-occupied territory and started work
ahead of the invasion forces.
At Munda they had the field ready for
operation seven days after the first wave of
infantry had reached the area. They had built
a tower, repaired the fine revetments the Japs
had constructed about the dispersal area, and
begun clearing up the bomb-blasted area just
east of the field which was once Lambeti plan-
tation. While the troops still pushed on to
Zieta and beyond, a network of roads was in
operation across the country they had fought
so hard to occupy. Here naval gunfire and air
bombardment had devastated an area over half
a mile square. Occasionally you saw the splin-
tered stumps of coconut-trees, and shell craters,
15ft. deep and more, noiy half-filled with water,
were like a rash of ulcers spreading over the
earth. Here was desolation —until the Sea Bees
came.
Up along the road through the hills towards
Mount Tiarokiamba, along the way between
Munda field and Bairoko, our jeep travelled
slowly. There were halts of half an hour here,
20 minutes there, while somewhere up at the
head of the long line of vehicles a scraper made
a passage through the mud or a tractor was
hitched to the front of a bogged truck to haul
it through. There were other stops while a
driver, still unacquainted with the capabilities
of jeeps, trudged ahead to reconnoitre the mud.
We made an airline distance of five miles in
three hours. The road still went on, but for
two days under the rains it had been impassable
even to jeeps. Caterpillar tractors were haul-
ing in trailer loads of rations, and we climbed
on top of the cases. Another hundred yards
of squelching, monotonous, yard-by-yard pro-
gress; then the trailer slid a moment, held and
keeled over, throwing us into the mud. Another
hour spent in unloading and righting the
trailer and getting it in motion again, another
mile or so of the slow haul, and then the trac-
tors bogged down.
We reached Tiarokiamba that Tuesday night.
There were three of us, two being marines—
one 19, the other 21 —who had been lost from
a patrol 12 days before, and now were making
back to their unit. They had wandered through
the hills for three days, dodging the enemy,
who was coming north after the fall of Munda.
Working their way through the jungle, map-
ping their course with a compass they had
taken from a dead Jap, they had stumbled on
the native gardens around Zieta while the
enemy was still in force there and had sheered
off again. Eventually they had reached Munda.
Regimental headquarters of the 161st Infantry
were on the summit of Tiarokiamba. The com-
manding officer, down with malaria, lay on a
groundsheet under a rough, lean-to shelter of
pandanus leaves, directing the operations of
his forward battalions by telephone. Eleven
years in the army, a captain in 1941 and a
major in ’42, he is Colonel Dalton now, with a
solid reputation in the Solomons. The fever
had cut dark hollows beneath his cheekbones
and given an unhealthy brightness to his eyes,
but his martial spirit was unquenched.
His men were in little better shape than their
commander. After Munda they had completed
the drive to the west coast of New Georgia
before swinging north. They had been short
of rations for many days. At one stage two
battalions had been laboring along the rough
trails, packing in supplies day after day, slid-
ing and slipping down the hillsides with the
heavy cases, clambering up the other side, in
order to keep a third battalion alive and fight-
ing. After the airfield was in operation things
had improved a little. Supplies and ammuni-
tion were dropped to the forward areas by
parachute from Douglas transports. But that
meant extra work for the weary troops. Scout-
ing patrols had to scour the hills and carry the
heavy fibre cases in through the jungle.
Many of them, except for their boots, were
without clothing. Their jungle greens had been
torn and rotted with rain and mud. They
fashioned loincloths from the bright-blue fabric
of the parachutes. They lived in the jungle,
strange, wild-eyed, ragged-bearded creatures,
but game. Flapping bright-blue girdles accen-
tuated the pallor of their skins.
Beyond Tiarokiamba there is only a narrow,
broken, two-foot passage through the jungle.
From the top of the mountain it falls almost
perpendicularly to the floor of the valley. It
can be negotiated only by aid of the tong,
trailing vines, by failing, hands outstretched and
clutching, from one vine to the next. The
trail winds back on itself, twists and turns in
every direction, climbs the hills by the most
roundabout route. Along the lower parts the
mud lies deep. Nearing Bairoko Harbor the
trail crosses through mangrove swamps, where
every step of the way is knee-deep m evil-
smelling slime, and it is a constant effort to
avoid pitching forward over the jutting roots.
We bivouacked on Tiarokiamba, lying on
leaves over the mud, sheltered in part by a
groundsheet from the rain. We hit the trail
again at half-past six in the morning. Estimates
of the distance to the harbor varied from three
to eight hours’ travelling. We reached the
western shore in three and a half hours, uve
the last two miles we waded through swamps,
sinking at times to the waist, dragging on me
roots to pull ourselves out from the stinKing
mud, till we were mud ourselves.
Bairoko was empty. The enemy had quitted
in a hurry, leaving behind a mass of supplies
and equipment. There were large stacks o*
rice, bundled up in hundredweight basket-
work sacks; cases of tinned meat; cases o
fine crockery, matching cups and saucers
stamped with the Japanese Navy insignia, ana
all manner of medical stores. The Nip sno -
pital equipment is of high qualjty. bo are n
rubber goods, here discarded with a protusich
which may have been meant as a contemptou
reminder of Malaya. Decontamination suits,
trousers, shoes, coats, curtains, bags and sa -
chels of every description, together with true ,
two motor-cycles and sidecars and a pne
ty These Orientals’ policy with supplies is almost
impossible to understand. At Munda
trucks and sedan cars, and an amfield wh
they never really got into operation, but scare y
any roads. At Bairoko there were, no roads at
all. The Japs were on New Georgia almost
nine months. Had they had a motor road from
Bairoko to Munda, ousting them would ha
been considerably more difficult. Ternaps
Georgia was meant to be chiefly a.sfagmg bas
for supplies intended for a new drive south-
ward to Guadalcanal and beyond, where road
were made already. nnimko
It hurt the enemy to have to leave a ™ ;
At the top of stairways leading to the upp
floors of two-storeyed ftative-style dweilings he
had constructed there notices had been chaik d
in English: “You may win now-bu. you wifi
die later.” The army forces which had chasea
the Jap garrisons from their holes
across the island, and the marines who, sadly
reduced in numbers, had yet stayed on lor
weeks at Enogai and kept the ee them
to his defence positions, wer.
srn Those who escaped to Kolotnnangai ,
threatened now from New Ge ° r | ia n ° r n th the w i5 U in
and from Vella Lavefia on . the north, will
due season get what is coming


PLAIN ENGLISH
Coal and Mr. Curtin.
In N.S.W. coal-using industries and public
utilities have to manage on a sort of
hand-to-mouth supply. In Victoria and
S. the position is far worse —in S.A.
“the worst for 20 years,” its Premier has
stated. 0% September 22 the Coal Com-
mission announced that if losses con-
tinued there would have to be “very
soon” severe rationing for all purposes
in all the States, with the “distinct possi-
bility” of “essential industries of lower-
priority rating” being deprived of coal
altogether.
The losses continue. Day after day
there are strikes and stoppages in N.S.W.
coalmines ; all unlawful, all contemptu-
ous of the litter of National Security anti-
strike regulations.
The Prime Minister, with his Ministers
for Supply and Labor, met the miners’
“leaders” yesterday. The “leaders” had
a “10-point plan.” It included
proposals for release of miners from the
Army, opening of idle mines, “complete
exploitation” of working mines, develop-
ment of small mines, transport to and from
the face, pit committees to handle disputes,
inspectors to check “bad practices” by
coal-users.
The nation has had enough of plans and
promises. It remembers the promise given
by the miners’ president, Comrade Wells,
in a pre-election advertisement:
Under Curtin’s leadership the miner will
never let Australia down. Curtin has got
what it takes. Back him up.
The nation backed him up —and the
miners backed down. Between August 23
and September 29 there were 111 strikes
or stoppages in N.S.W. pits, with a resul-
tant loss of nearly 106,000 tons of coal.
That was in 36 days, counting Saturdays
and Sundays, on which miners don’t
work. So much for Communist leader-
ship and Communist promises!
Maybe Mr. Curtin reminded Mr. Wells
of his promise when they met yesterday
and maybe he didn’t. A lot of people
would like to remind Mr, Curtin of his
own words in February, 1942:-
Men who are not in the fighting forces
and who at the same time will not work
are as much the enemies of this country
as the directly enlisted legions of the enemy.
They’re as true today as when he uttered
them, though his remarks anent coal in
Parliament on 29/9/’43 suggest a shift
in outlook.
I regard stoppages on the coalfields as
detrimental to the war effort. Doubtless
the men have grievances, but possibly they
use some of them for other purposes
It is not a matter for easy generalisation to
decide how to get increased coal production.
The U.S.A. tried Curtin methods for a
time and abandoned them. American
miners have now to work a 48-hour week
and there is an anti-strike law under
which strike leaders have been indicted
and are even now awaiting trial.
N.S.W. miners are supposed to put in
30 hours a week at the face —when they
work a full week —with double pay for
holidays and 10 days’ annual leave on full
pay. At 60 (in N.S.W.) they retire on a
pension.
So long as Mr. Curtin’s Government is
prepared to sidestep its duty, which is to
stop strikes in war-time, so long will the
nation be held up.
State Elections.
In the course of six or seven months there
are to be three —in Westralia, South Aus-
tralia and N. S. Wales.
Westralian Assembly electors haven’t
voted since March 18, 1939, the
election having been twice postponed
because of the war with Japan. “On
the very day the people would have
been asked to go to the polls,” Premier
Willcock said recently, “considerably
over 100 people, mostly refugees from
Java, lost their lives in the terrific bom-
bardment at Broome.” Now, with “Aus-
tralia considered safe from military in-
vasion, though liable to raids,” and with
the Commonwealth safe for Labor West-
ralians are to “go to the polls” in Novem-
ber, and those in the fighting forces in the
South-west Pacific zone, both males and
females, so long as they are 18 or over,
are to have the vote. Those in America,
Canada, England, India and the Middle
East are to be denied it, but Mr. Will-
cock says it can’t be helped.
And Westralian Labor is not to have,
to defend daylight saving, always detested
in Westralia. Commonwealth Labor, with
a Westralian at the head, has seen to that.
Ukraine Grain.
Sometimes a quiet, studious man who
knows his subject can throw more light
on a phase of the war than a hundred
famous correspondents. Such a man is
T. H. Bath, before the last war a Labor-
leader in Westralia, and for many years
since its leading authority on the wheat
question, which he surveys for the “Pri-
mary Producer” from China to Peru.
Writing on September 9 of the struggle
for the Ukraine, Mr. Bath pointed out
that the Ukraine “was always Russia’s
main breadbasket and sugar-sweetener.”
The richer cereal-growing lands are west
of the Dnieper. Germany must have
gathered a substantial quantity of grain
during the harvesting period of the last two
months. The question''of who will reap
the next harvest depends upon the tide of
war. The Ukraine is a winter-wheat area,
and for good results the crop must be in
process of sowing now and during the
next four or six weeks.
It is apt to be assumed that the loss of
Ukraine wheat can be easily made up by
shipments from North America and Aus-
tralia. According to Mr. Bath, transport
of a bushel for each of a hundred mil-
lion people would require 382 ships of
7000 tons each, and “a ration of 601 b.
of bread will not carry a human being
very Tar along the road of sustenance.”
Equally pertinent to the tragedy of the
famine in Bengal, though in both cases,
when shipping can be provided, Australia
should send what Australia can spare.
"Balance Sheet" in Two Acts.
At a Balmain (Sydney) meeting one night
last week “Balance Sheet” Thornton, the
Communist boss of the Ironworkers, was
“counted out several times when he dealt
with the union’s financial position,” and
“was alternately hooted and cheered dur-
ing the hour and a half in which he spoke
to members of the union.”
As well as being Communist boss of the
Ironworkers, “Balance Sheet” aspires to
be Communist boss of the Munition
Workers, but before aspiration -becomes
actuality there is a trifling legal difficulty
to be overcome. Many Munition Workers
object to being “amalgamated” with the
Ironworkers by “Balance Sheet” and
other Communists and fellow-travellers,
and a dour Commonwealth Industrial
Registrar pointed out that the consent of
a four-fifths majority of the Munition
Workers had first to be obtained, and
hadn’t been.
The malcontents at Balmain are mem-
bers of the local branch of the Iron-
workers. ' They and their local officers
object to the Communisation of their
union. The Thornton push deposed the
local officers and took control of the
branch.
It must not be supposed that the revolt
of Ironworkers and Munition Workers
has cramped “Balance Sheet’s” Second-
Front style. His name was heard recently
in a Moscow broadcast as one of “26
Australian trade-union leaders,” the first
among equals, who “expressed the con-
viction that further delay in opening a
Second Front will lead to a protraction
of the European war.” The “conviction”
was “expressed” to Comrade Shevnik, a
Russian delegate to the Trades Union
Congress in London, in these terms:
Sent the following cable to Citrine
[the T.U.C. general secretary]: “We con-
sider that further delay in opening a Second
Front will prolong the war in Europe and
cause indefinite continuation of the war in
the Pacific. Therefore we urge the British
trade-unions to support the immediate
opening of a Second Front in western
Europe.”
None of the “26 Australian trade-union
leaders” will venture within 10,000 miles
of the Second Front they demand. Some
of them at least are of military age.
All are in a reserved occupation, though
their congeners in the U.S.A. are liable
to the call-up. One or two names
seemed out of place in the company
of Communists and fellow-travellers,
especially that of Mr. O’Dea, secretary
of the Sydney Shop Assistants. Mr.
Lang has claimed Mr. O’Dea as an anti-
conscriptionist—that is, an anti-conscrip-
tionist where Australians are concerned:
conscription and the shedding of conscript
blood are permitted to Britain, the United
States and New Zealand. Mr. Lang will
now perhaps ask Mr. O’Dea what he was
doing in that Red gallery.
Dreamers About?
The Prime Minister, announcing the
appointment of Dr. Lloyd Ross, the rail-
waymen’s union secretary in N. S. Wales,
to a senior position in the Department
of Post-war Reconstruction, said;
An assistant is necessary for consulta-
tions by representatives of organisations and
institutions interested in post-war recon-
struction, to assist in elucidating questions
of policy and to co-ordinate the investiga-
tions of the various commissions handling
post-war matters.
What a mouthful! Dr. Ross himself
that same day had an article in “S. M.
Herald” telling of British plans for re-
building bombed cities. A most interest-
ing article, but it suggested that Dr. Ross
has the same trouble in viewing this
country’s problems as far too many other
people—that it is all a matter of rebuild-
ing the Big Cities. And what will be the
good of making Sydney a grand, new
metropolis while the rest of N. S. Wales
goes begging for people?
Decentralisation must become a fact
rather than a fantasy. Provincial Govern-
ments will have to be deprived of control
of such things as national transport, edu-
cation and production. Agriculture must
have a settled place in the national
economy. If there are dreamers about,
let them dream of cities along the
Murray and Lachlan, on the Namoi, in
South Australia and Westralia, in the
centre and north of Queensland and in
the Northern Territory. Australia will
need them, and need them badly.
TO BE ’ARD ’ELD.
“Whatever you do, Chif., don’t let him get away with you. If you feel he’s bolting in, fall off!”


PUBLIC TRUSTEE
Acts As
Trustee, Executor,
Administrator, Agent
or Attorney.
Under STATE GUARANTEE.
Absolute Security.
Estates efficiently and
economically managed.
WRITE OR CALL FOR
FREE BOOKLET.
19 O’Connell St. (Box 7A, G.P.0.),
Sydney.
W. B. Geddes, Public Trustee.
Insure with the
AUSTRALIAN MUTUAL FIRE INSURANCE SOCIETY, LTD.
ESTABLISHED 1872.
HEAD OFFICE: INSURANCE HOUSE, 109 PITT STREET, SYDNEY
Invested Funds exceed £500,000.
All classes Marine, Fire and Accident Insurance at lowest rates.
TOURISTS’ AND TRAVELLERS’ BAGGAGE INSURED.
VICTORIAN BRANCH: 411 Collins Street, Melbourne.
QUEENSLAND BRANCH : Woolworth’s Building, Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
Claims Promptly and Equitably Settled. Agents in all Principal Country Towns.
W. G. BROWN, General Manager.
For Australia at War . . .
O TO
5r
o
I-u
Q 2
O
p EACI
QYe
LATHES . . . CAPSTAN TURRET LATHES
SHAPING, MILLING and PLANING
MACHINES .... BORING MILLS
MACHINE-CUT GEARS for the Trade
MARS MACHINE TOOL Manfg. Go.
Pty. Ltd. Bridge Street, Valley, Brisbane
f\ [ ANOTHER
(/ I VICTORY FOR
- \BRITISH
Made in England:
Moderately
priced: Limited
supplies for even
distribution.
Gold nib:
iridium
point
<p7lentnwU
SUPREME
le
DIPLOMA
ME
POLITICAL POINTS
J. A. Lee, leader of Maoriland’s
“Democratic Labor party,” to the con-
stituents who rejected him:
Shortly after the outbreak of war the
Government altered the conscription law
by regulation, I said that, while I was in
favor of conscription for local defence and
the Pacific, I was not in favor of it for
the Middle East, and moved accordingly.
I failed to get a seconder, the Labor and
National parties being unanimous against
me.
Lee advanced his views in the wrong
Dominion. He would have found many
kindred souls at Canberra, and he would
find more now.
Some of the new people at Canberra
have spoken with refreshing brevity and
Dr. Gaha and Dame Lyons with distinc-
tion. Indeed, old Parliamentary hands
agree that they never heard a more
moving first speech than the one de-
livered by the lady from Darwin. The
P.M. led the chorus of congratulations.
Room for other new members:
Mr. Burke (Perth): The people of other
countries have no desire to leave their
countries and come and take Australia.
Mr. Sheehy: The time is not ripe for
immigration, because Australia cannot
house its own people. Pensioners’ homes
and payment of child endowment to the
single mother must be attended to before
there is talk about bringing people from
another country.
Mr. Lemmon (Forrest): Men who offer
their services, if not hired, should have
the right to full-time maintenance for their
wives and families. .
Perhaps the trouble is that these legis-
lators roosted so long on the soapbox
that some of the timber somehow got into
their heads. They may improve with
experience—some new members do.
The Sydney A.L.P. bosses put up
Gordon Byrne, a former mayor, against
Lang in Auburn and fully expected to
unseat their old leader. Great was their
surprise when Byrne got only 5343 of
18,600 effective votes polled, the Big
Fellow beating him 2 to 1. It looks like
the beginning of the inevitable reaction
against a too-successful party.
Only the hard words that break no
bones are ever heaved at black-marketers
in Sydney, but an Adelaide practitioner
has caught it hot. A clothing manufac-
turer who had lied about* his stocks and
“cooked” his books, he’ pleaded guilty on
three counts and was (1) ordered to pay
£2OO, (2) “do” three years’ hard, (3) “do”
five years’ hard, concurrent. Named
Israel Golovsky, he is a Jew who came
young from Palestine and made good be-
fore he turned bad.
A Sydney sub-editor was so overcome
when he learned that there were to be
no new imposts that he ran up the head-
ing “Tax-free Budget.” “Tax free,” with
income tax as much as 18s. 6d. in the £!
Westralia has been exempted from the
daylight-saving edict. “Cabinet,” it seems,
“gave regard to the distinctiveness of
Westralia in relation to the other States
and to the time factor.” Not the election-
time factor, of course, though, if summer
set in hot and polling day was a scorcher,
it would have been awkward to have to
defend as a Labor measure what State
electors have always loathed.
“The reason given for the exemption
of Westralia from the daylight-saving
regulation, that Perth standard time is 18
minutes behind sun time, has not even the
virtue of accuracy,” said Dunstan truly, in a
rasping protest; and he added that parts
of his principality are 18 to 33 minutes
ahead of sun time. All sorts of compli-
cations have arisen already. One is that
inter-State telegrams lodged in Westralia
after 2 p.m. can’t be delivered till the
following day ; another that N.S.W. coal-
miners see in the regulation their 999th
excuse for a strike.
Young Bill Wentworth, who failed to
persuade electors around Bondi, Vau-
cluse and Watson’s Bay to elect him as
a National Government candidate, went
to Sydney Town Hall the other night
and tried to have a say at a Communist
Second-Front rally. He was thrown out,
violently. Second-Fronters always shine
against opposition when the odds are
fifty to one their way.
“Balance Sheet” Thornton had police
protection at Balmain. There was none
for the grandson and namesake of
“THERE’S NO PLACE LIKE ’OME, IS THERE, EB?”
William Charles Wentworth when he
tried to move an amendment to a
Communist Second-Front motion at an
alleged public meeting in the Sydney
Town Hall, and was “pushed off the plat-
form and assaulted,” Text of the%mend-
ment:
That this meeting urges Russia to ter-
minate forthwith her agreement with Japan
and co-operate with the other Allied
nations in their struggle against all forms
of Fascism and all members of the Axis.
According to the “Herald” report, “Town
Hall attendants tried to persuade Mr,
Wentworth to leave,” and he was “forced
through the doors to the corridor, still
held by an attendant.” Is it Council
policy to place Town Hall employees, as
well as the Town Hall, at the service of
Communist Second-Fronters, and is it
police policy to give protection to Com-
munists and deny it to anti-Communists?
There has been a rash of Civil Con-
struction Corps strikes, with threats of
more. If “the vigilance committee of
the Building Trades Federation” has
its way, “all C.C.C.” members in
the three most populous States will
“hold a stop - work meeting” today
and remain idle until “Theodore and
Packer have been removed from the
administration” and numerous other
alleged grievances are “removed.” This
announcement was made by “the secre-
tary, Mr. D. Thomson.” Thomson is the
Red who was inadvertently called up
and who squealed so piercingly, as did
all his Red and Second-Front friends,
until the call-up notice was “removed.”
All union blatherskites of military age
should be liable for military service, as
they are in the U.S.A.; if this were so
there would be fewer strikes.
Plagued with coal strikes once more
after the brief pre-election interregnum,
and conscious of the reproaches of the
many who have had to put up with the
results, Curtin arranged to meet Wells
and other loud-mouthed leaders of the
work-stoppers yesterday. Representatives
of other interests were bidden to the con-
ference. It is to be hoped no coal-starved
wage-payer asked the head of the Gov-
ernment to live up to Mrs. Roosevelt’s
words on its “energetic” grappling with
labor troubles —“it is easier to handle
these things when you have a Labor Gov-
ernment, because Labor feels that what-
ever the Government does is done by its
own people.”
Smashing its century-old tradition,
“S, M. Herald” continues to crack up
Labor members and make heavy fun of
U.A.P. worthies. Its star political writer
hailed Senator Tangney as having estab-
lished herself “immediately” as “the
Senate’s best speaker and among the first
dozen speakers in the whole Parliament.”
Unfortunately, this fustian appeared on
the morning after “Herald” readers heard
the lady from Westralia on the air, and,
after her, the Commonwealth Bank’s
Armitage, pulverising her pet theory.
which is that miracles can be wrought
with bank credit. Armitage was bespeak -
ing support for the war loan and all his
stuff was good. The bank-credit part
was a pithy piece of debunking.
In his world broadcast last month
Churchill sent “a message of
ment to the King of Greece and the King
of Yugoslavia, whom we hope to see
restored to their thrones by the free
choice of their liberated peoples.” Some
of the peoples very obviously have other
ideas. London “Observer” reports that
“six leaders of the Greek guerrilla army”
cast up in Cairo recently with a demand
for three Ministerial posts and an ulti-
matum to the King, who was to bind
himself not to go back to Athens until
a plebiscite had been taken to “decide
whether he shall return to the throne.”
And even in this country there is a Free
Yugoslav Movement which bombards
newspaper offices with “demands” that
“the reactionary Royal Yugoslav Gov-
ernment be repudiated,” and General
Mihailovich be “brought before the
People’s Court for crimes against the
people.” This concern publishes a Leftist
paper called “Napredak,” and claims ten
branches in Westralia, two in Victoria
and four each in N. S. Wales and
Queensland.
Comparative statement of income taxes
payable in three countries, prepared be-
fore the introduction of “the greatest
Budget in history”:
Income Taxes.
U.K.
Aust. Total. N.Z.
£ £ £ £
100 .. .. 13
150 .. .. 11 'lB 19
200 .. .. 22 33 25
250 .. .. 37 47 40
300 .. .. 55 66 54
350 .. .. 75 89 70
400 .. .. 95 111 85
500 .. .. 137 156 118
600 .. .. 178 201 152
800 .. .. 265 291 225
1000 .. .. 355 381 305
1500 .. .. 619 606 534
2000 .. .. 951 856 805
3000 .. .. 1747 1462 1472
5000 .. .. 3530 2837 3204
Included in the British totals are post-
war credits. They start at £lO on £l5O,
rising to £43 on £lOOO and to £6O on
£l5OO and upward. Australia has neither
post-war credits nor pay-as-you-earn—
our tax-masters won’t have either.
“The number of lotteries drawn in
1942-43 was the highest in any year since
their establishment.” N.S.W. Auditor-
General Swift. He refers only to N.S.W.
Government lotteries, and he says the
Government collected£94s,2soin revenue,
net surplus being £894,145. Actually
ticket-buyers paid in just on £2,500,000.
Lotteries are run in four States, and the
Commonwealth Government, hard put to
it for war funds, not only lets them go
on, but lets prizes amounting to £20,000
go untaxed, while taking up to 18s. 6d.
in the £ of earned income. It is so un-
speakably unjustifiable that Chifley
doesn’t try to justify it. He ignores the
iniquitous subject altogether.
Nearly all the service men who stood
on August 21 were defeated, and most of
them lost their deposits. An exception was
Macalister Blain, the p.o.w. member for
the N.T., who was re-elected by 1274 to
Murray’s 1146. Murray was Independent
Labor or something. He was one of six
candidates who ignored Curtin’s protest
against Blain being opposed.
“Ward Stands Curtin Up on Financial
Policy” was how Lang’s “Century” re-
ferred to Eddie’s first post-election revolt
against his “leader” in Caucus. Curtin
will live to regret that he didn’t Stand
Ward Down when it was in his power
to do so.


(Vtloitdo
Gold Medal
PORT
PERSONAL ITEMS
Seen in George-street on the first genu-
ine spring day Sydney has had this year
(September 28), former Minister for De-
fence knight Archdale Parkhill, probably
the only man in the streets that day in
the garden-paVty regalia the day deserved
—bowler lid, morning coat and vest,
striped pants, spats; immaculate as ever,
though a shade less rotund, as his great
prototype in looks might have been after
that memorable day rook shooting. Park-
hill has, tailors and cartoonists say, a
most disappointing successor. The U.A.P.
sorely needs him for its resuscitation job.
An extraordinary triumph in face of
difficult conditions has been achieved by
Captain L O. G. MacCormick, who a
couple of years back was doing second-
year medicine at Melbourne University
and now is p.o.w. at Olflag 78, Germany.
Without textbooks or teachers he decided
to do examinations in managership and
advertising, secured the papers from Cam-
bridge and gained first place, topping the
list both for p.o.ws. and for all Britain.
Three months short of his 89th birthday
Frederick Williams Heath was the other
day re-elected chairman of directors of
Robertson and Mullens, the Melbourne
bookselling and publishing firm. Born
at Plymouth (Eng.), he landed in Mel-
bourne in 1865, and has been associated
with the book firm for a quarter of a
century and with another old concern,
the clockmaking firm of Gaunt’s in
Bourke-street, for half a century. He has
been honorary timekeeper for the V.R.C.,
V.A.T.C. and Royal Show for 45 years.
“S. M. Flerald” rightly names William
Monday, who was killed in Italy the other
day, “one of the most brilliant war cor-
respondents produced by the present
war.” His fine direct descriptive report-
ing, first in Burma, then in Tunisia and
Italy, made that of the first-person variety
of scribes look cheap. Educated at Syd-
ney High and University, he’d been with
the “S.M.H.” since 1940, after six years’
experience on several Fleet-street papers.
He would have been 33 on October 28.
In a whimsical communication to Mel-
bourne “Herald,” Alan Daweg mentioned
that he was “the last correspondent to
enter Lae,” and was “sending the first
message to be posted from Lae.” He
explained that the war correspondents
were “an army in themselves,” being with
General MacArthur, the Vasey and
Wootten forces, and representing not only
Australian, British and American news-
papers, but A.8.C., Military History and
Information, the Army Publications
Directorate and the U.S. Army Press.
John Brennan, of The Bulletin, Was the
first correspondent into Bairoko, New
Georgia. He is a member of the editorial
staff, and has been on the paper since he
left school.
“H.H.B.’s” tribute;
Flags over the Soldiers’ Memorial Hall at
Yass (N.S.W.) were half-mast when news was
received that Captain George Thyne Reid had
been killed in New Guinea. He owned Narren-
gullen and Gum Flat stations, aggregating 11,500
acres, and, because of his charity, his tolerance
and breadth of mind and his help of the under-
dog, not one man in the district grudged him an
acre. On these properties he ran a high-class
flock of merino sheep of Baratta blood and the
largest imported stud of Aberdeen Angus cattle
in „ Australia. A son of the late Andrew Reid,
of Sydney, well known for his benefactions
and support of such humanitarian projects as
the Fairbridge Farm Schools and the Margaret
Reid Homes, his own benefactions included
an X-ray plant to the Yass Hospital and a large
home in Yass to the Red Cross Society. His
hand was always in his pocket for charitable
and patriotic causes. When bushfires swept the
district in 1940, although Narrengullen was
devastated, his first thought was the re-estab-
hshment of his small-holding neighbors, whom
he helped with fencing and building material.
A Light Horse officer in peace-time, he en-
listed early in the war and went overseas to
become one of the Rats of Tobruk and the
victors of El Alamein. He returned with the
Ninth Division. Had he been spared he would
have been a valuable citizen of Australia in
the years ahead. He leaves a bonny Scotch
wife and three young children.
Another entry for the Splendid Record
Department—the winning of the D.F.C.
by all three sons of a Hastings (M.L.)
mother. One of them, James Cowan
(31), subsequently lost his life in an air
crash in England. Flight-Lieut. William
/
Bruce Cowan (28), of the R.N.Z.AF.,
won the decoration taking part in attacks
on Berlin. The other D.F.C.-winning son
is Neville Lawrence (23). All were
accountants and good at sport before
taking to the air.
A Pepysian addict:
Douglas Thornley Boyd, lately made chair-
man of the Australian Wool Board, names read-
ing as his main recreation, with a special liking
for Pepys. This liking can have nothing to do
with wool, a substance Pepys hardly ever refers
to, apart from having once gone to the House
of Lords and “staid all the morning, seeing their
manner of sitting on woolpacks.” These, says
a Pepysian authority, were placed there “for
the Judges to sit on, so that the fact that
wool was a main source of our national wealth
might be kept in the popular mind.” The
Lord Chancellor’s seat is called the Wool-
sack, and is stuffed with Australian wool, with
which commodity the new Wool Board chair-
man has been associated all his life —as manag-
ing partner of Tarrone station, owner of Inglis-
ton estate and Chatsworth Park, growers’ repre-
sentative on the Central Wool Committee and
member of the Woolgrowers’ and the Graziers’
Councils and of the Wool Board since its in-
D. T. BOYD AND FRIEND.
ception. Born on October 19, 1896, a son of
the late William Boyd, of Tarrone, he had his
education at Geelong College and used to play
polo in the Southern Riverina before he took
to Pepys, touching on whom it’s a curious fact
that, though more pages of the Diary bear the
name of a tavern than pages that do not, it
was not till this present year that a London
tavern was named after him —the Mr. Samuel
Pepys in the Chatham area. Even a tavern
built on the site of Pepys’s birthplace in Fleet-
street wasn’t named after him, but was called
the White Swan. In this incidental line of
lore it’s also curious that, though there are
sundry Shakspeare’s Heads and Ben Jonsons,
the only imbibing address in London named
after Dickens, who liked writing about inns
and taverns as much as Pepys did, is a wine-
house. As to the Wool Board chairman, whose
fondness for Pepys led to these digressions,
as Frith’s drawing suggests he could readily be
mistaken for either Anthony Eden or R. G.
Casey or both.
John Cain had such a brief term in
office that the incoming Cain nearly col-
lided with the outgoing Cain. One of his
Ministers was delegated to represent the
Government at the opening of a show
of war artists’ pictures. He was a
Minister when he started speaking
and an ordinary member before he
finished. Cain was acting Minister of
Agriculture in 1924 and 1927 and Min-
ister of Railways from 1929 to 1932 under
Ned Hogan, His method in debate is
keen but pleasant, and he has an engag-
ing smile that disarms opponents. Born
at Blackwood (Vic.) in 1887, he was edu-
cated at State schools, and entered the
Assembly in 1917.
Gilsullivan ’ bass Richard Watson be-
comes principal teacher of singing at
Adelaide’s Elder Conservatorium. Adel-
aide-born and a product of the Conser-
vatorium, having won the Elder Scholar-
ship in 1925, Watson studied at the Royal
College of Music, London, under W.
Johnston-Douglas and Dinh Gilly. He
has been bass soloist at Westminster
Abbey and principal bass in opera •at
Covent Garden.
Wing-Commander Thomas Mcßride
Price, D.F.C., of Adelaide, has been
awarded the American Soldiers’ Medal
for courageous action in saving the lives
of his crew when his ’plane crash-landed
in the sea. Attached to an American
Army bombardment group in New
Guinea, Wing-Commander Price won his
D.F.C. in 1941 as pilot of an Australian
Seagull Amphibian with H.M.A.S. Syd-
ney during the bombardment of Bardia.
Half <a dozen years back the M.L.
Labor Government replaced one of
M.L.’s keenest financial minds on the
directorate of the Bank of New Zealand,
in which the State has an interest, with
John Dowgray, a West Coast miner who
read extensively on finance and banking.
Dowgray’s education during his occu-
pancy of the seat has upset any idea
that banks existed solely
for raking in dividends and
plotting against “the pub-
lic.” He confesses to find-
ing salvation. At the
annual meeting he said his
experience showed that the
directorate and staff were
mostly interested in the
bank as a national institu-
tion, and its service to its
clients and the country. He
also said he noted the in-
terest taken in building up
small industries and in
assisting them. The hand-
ling of small accounts was
not profitable to a bank,
but they were taken care of.
Indeed, said John Dowgray,
to his mind the bank was
at times too “soft,” and its
humane treatment of its
staff won his admiration.
C. D. Gibb, the Port
Adelaide native who went
from Adelaide School of
Mines and University to be-
come a director of the Eng-
lish firm of C. A. Parsons
and Co., has ,been appointed
Director-General of Fight-
ing Vehicle Research and
Development for the British
Ministry of Supply, after
being Director-General of
Weapons for Production.
Gibb, now 45, got his early
schooling at Alberton and
Lefevre Peninsular schools
and went to England with an M.E. de-
gree in 1922, taking a job as an ordinary
workman at the Parsons turbine outfit
at Newcastle-on-Tyne. He was a pilot
in the Australian Flying Corps in
1914-18.
From John Brennan:
Units of the British Solomon Islands Native
Labor Corps work on road maintenance, on
loading and discharging cargo, on airfield con-
struction. Solomons native boys have acted
as guides, have carried out the wounded and
have reconnoitred Japanese positions, but the
work of the Labor Corps is their most effective
effort. They are officered chiefly by Austra-
lians and Maorilanders, men with long ex-
perience of the islands. Squadron-Leader
Charles V. Widdy, R.A.A.F., in command of
the corps, was before the war managing-
director of Lever’s Pacific Plantations, with
headquarters at Gavutu, just across the bay
from Tulagi and the scene of some of the
fiercest fighting during the American drive to
recapture the southern Solomons. He took the
first batch of Marines to land on Guadalcanal
ashore at Ilu, near the mouth of the Tenaru.
An ex-A.I.F. man, one of the First Division and
a veteran of Gallipoli, he came to the Solomons
first in 1922, when he was 32. Born at Hill End
in New England (N.S.W.), he stayed there
goldmining until the 1914-18 war took him
farther afield. Afterwards he was two years
under Norman Buley with a returned soldiers’
exploration group in the Northern Territory.
He began in the islands as a plantation assistant
at Tenaru and stayed on with Lever Brothers
till he reached the top. When the Japanese
came he sent his wife and infant son to Sydney
and himself joined the R.A.A.F. Two days
later he was on the way to New Zealand to
consult with American leaders on the plans for
an assault on the Solomons and to advise on
local conditions. During the battle for Guadal-
canal he directed the Marines to their objec-
tives and led scouting patrols. Later he made
the first reconnaissance of the Russell Islands
before the American forces went in there. This
earned him a recommendation for the Legion
of Merit.
Scientists continue to be called for
from Australia by the Old Man. The
latest is A. F. Burstall, Professor of
Engineering at Melbourne University.
Born in Birmingham in 1902, he had
been some years in British industry
before coming to Melbourne, In
1939 he started building up the engi-
neering school, raised £67,000 for new
plant and buildings, and had going one
of the best-equipped shops in Australia
when Hitler erupted. Fine precision work
in munitions, medical apparatus, respira-
tors that proved of service during the in-
fantile paralysis epidemic and the new
American metal splint which has caused
a sensation in medical circles are among
its contributions. Professor Burstall was
one of the first to experiment on gas-
producers, and drove one of the gadgets
to Canberra to impress the politicians.
The British Ministry of Supply has bor-
rowed him for 12 months.
Because of ill health, S. McHugh,
member for Light in the S.A. Assembly,
is getting out of politics. He’s a grazier
of Quorn and an Old Digger.
“Apparently,” wrote U.S. sporting
scribe George Trevor recently, “it’s the
open season for throwing verbal tomatoes
at Joe Kirkwood, the golden-thatched
Australian trick-shot wizard.” Kirkwood
had been “brutally panned” by other
scribes for “running out on the Ryder
Cup series at Detroit after Walter Hagen
had failed to include him in the all-star
line-up.” “Well,” Trevor commented,
“Kirkwood might rest his case with the
thousands of American soldiers he has
entertained gratis. Those doughboys can
tell Joe’s detractors that, at his own ex-
pense, Kirkwood has toured army camps
from Atlanta to San Diego, amusing the
soldiers with his trick-shot exhibitions
and raising money for army driving
ranges and golf equipment.” Kirkwood
was last heard of challenging Hagen to
play him for $2OOO, “cash on the line, all
proceeds, along with half the loser’s bets,
going to the Red Cross or any other
charity.”
“After the war,” wrote Lieut. Brian
Monfries from an Italian p.o.w. camp,
“I might even get a job as coach to the
Italian Army.” First Sydney Y.M.C.A.
welfare officer to go abroad with the
new A.1.F., he was referring in his letter
to his organising of sport, including
basketball, Soccer and hockey, for fel-
low prisoners of war. Before being cap-
tured in some of the fighting round
Tobruk, where he was wounded when
shelling destroyed his mobile unit, he had
organised and played in Egypt with teams
representing New Zealand, South Africa,
England and India. A Tasmanian, edu-
cated in S.A., Lieut. Monfries has been
with the Sydney Y.M. since 1924. He was
last heard of several months back at the
p.o.w. camp for officers at Sulmona, on
Italy’s east coast.
Into the silence:
In Melbourne, at 86, F. R. Bowrey, V.C.,
who won that decoration in the Zulu War in
1879 and was one of the few survivors of
Rorke’s Drift. He was secretary to the Fitzroy
Masonic Lodge and a regular attendant at its
meetings up to the finish.
At Toorak, Melbourne, at 73, Ernest O’Sulli-
van, one of Melbourne’s leading company
directors. Born at Albert Park, he joined the
Royal Bank, left that for the E., S. and A.,
and was general manager in 1928. He was
chairman of Associated Banks during the de-
pression.
In Adelaide, at 71, M. J. McNally, a veteran
painter and critic whose best years were spent
in Melbourne, but who had for some time been
in Adelaide as aft critic to the afternoon
“News.” He was a pleasant writer on almost
any subject.
Killed in the New Guinea fighting and buried
with full military honors in the Australian war
cemetery at Soputa, Brigadier R. B. Sutherland,
who, like so many more of them, had fought
through the Middle East before returning to go
north. Forty-five at the end, he was with the
engineers in France in the last war.
In Hobart, at 88, knight John William Evans,
former Lieut.-Governor of Tasmania, Premier,
Chief Secretary, Treasurer, Minister for Edu-
cation and Speaker. Born at Liverpool (Eng.),
he was four when he arrived in Tasmania with
his parents. At 14 he went to sea and was
subsequently master of several steamers and a
Huddart Parker manager.
In Melbourne, J. H. Wilson, of New Zea-
land Loan and Winchcombe, Carson. A
S’African veteran, he captained Richmond
Football and Rifle Clubs in his young days. A
son is in the R.A.A.F.


Society
AND IT'S PRINTED
WITH WIMBLES INKS'
“Pip”: The complete absence of
bottled beer in the regions over the top
of Australia has caused most of the
“bottle-top” clubs to die out. A few
members still remain, but our ranks are
thinning critically. Membership qualifi-
cation was onerous. The candidate must
drink two bottles of beer in three
minutes, have a five-minute spell, spin
ten times and then drink a third bottle
in five minutes. If, half an hour later, he
could stand reasonably straight and .had
retained the beer, the club’s insignia was
presented, with full military honors—a
bottle top. That bottle top must never
leave the member’s person, and must be
produced on demand of any club mem-
ber, in default a forfeit of one drink paid
to the challenger. You’d be standing
under the shower. “Where’s your bftttle
top?” someone would ask. Triumphantly
you’d take it from out *of your hair.
When swimming you’d tie it around your
neck. The ack-ack boys of the northern
coastal batteries had the keenest mem-
bers. Zeros would be coming
over, there’d be a mighty race
for the guns, and between the
mess and the gun a panting
member would challenge
“Where’s your bottle top?” It
would be produced, on the run,
or the forfeit paid after a couple
of Zeros had been shot out of
the sky. Bottle tops were never
found on the Jap pilots.
* * *
“Oxmead”: I have a mild
dislike for the term “Senator,”
applied to a female member of
our august “States House.”
Why not “Senatrix” or “Sena-
tress”? There is sound prece-
dent for the former in the well-
established legal terms “execu-
trix” and “administratrix,” and
by a review of a new film I am
reminded that “aviatrix” is
the recognised feminine of “aviator.” Per-
haps an even stronger case could be made
out for “Senatress.” “Conductresses”
seems already to have been accepted as the
proper term for the skirted beings whom
war-time has brought to our trams and
buses. In the older dictionaries, begin-
ning with Johnson’s, you will find many
similar terminations, guidances to gender
which have become obsolete nowadays,
such as “oratress,” “spectatress” and
‘auditress.” I firmly believe that if lady
doctors had come into existence a cen-
tury or two ago they would have been
styled “doctresses.” Our ancestors and
ancestresses were more specific than we
are in sex definitions.
* * * *
“Arith”: I am intrigued by a human-
interest story of a sort that is becoming
fairly frequent in the erstwhile staid pages
of the “S.M.H.” It concerns a 16-year-
old lass, Christian name Billye, who “since
the war began” has collected 6,010,770
cnilk-bottle tops. This quantity, so
Granny states, is sufficient to manufac-
ture 1,502,692 “plugs for cartridge cups.”
Maybe, maybe ; but what staggers me is
the amazing industry and wSherlock
Holmesian acumen displayed by this girl.
I think I have seen about a dozen metal
milk-bottle tops in the last 12 years. This
damsel (who has a steady job in a war
clothing factory, and therefore can de-
vote only spare time to her patriotic
hobby) can ferret them out by the
thousand. Assuming she devotes herself
to the bottle-top tally-ho for 56 hours a
week, and has been doing so since Mars
banged the gong in 1939, she must have
collected at an average rate of 480 an
hour, or eight a minute, and kept up that
bat for over four years.
# * * *
“Petrie”: The landing of U.S. Rangers
on Corsica recalls the days of the Corsi-
can Rangers, who during the Napoleonic
wars made a name for themselves as
shock troops. From a full regiment they
dwindled to a mere 200, and were finally
wiped out when a French squadron took
Capri from its British, Maltese and Cor-
sican defenders under Sir Hudson Lowe,
later Napoleon’s gaoler on St. Helena.
* * * *
“Bumpkin” remembers;
As a boy I, too, could tell the rig and run
of every ship that made port (B. 22/9/’43), but
the port was Adelaide and it was the wind-
jammers I liked —I despised the steamers.
When the wool clip had been garnered 30
full-rigged ships or more would assemble off
Largs Bay, and sometimes for weeks I would
look out of my bedroom window the first thing
in the morning and there they still were in all
their stately beauty. Then one morning I would
look out and the sea was empty. The shift of
wind had come for which the vessels waited.
A mate and I used to sail around the wool-
clippers in a flat-bottomed boat which we had
built and rigged ourselves. I used to beg a passage
on the tugs of rival" stevedoring cos. which used
to wait like vultures 10 and 20 miles down St.
Vincent’s Gulf and race one another for the
ships as they appeared. There were some lively
fights when two tug skippers got alongside
together. I was allowed to stay on the ships
until they reached the anchorage, and that was
my only taste of sailing, but that 10 miles or
so has more vivid associations for me than the
tens of thousands of miles I travelled subse-
quently as a passenger on ocean liners.
H* si*
“S.T.S.”: S.A. Supreme Court has de-
cided by a majority verdict, on an appeal,
that a person who in a religious service
gives messages from spirits, foretelling
events in the listeners’ lives, must have
broken the law against fortune-telling.-
But it was a near thing. The Court ad-
mitted that the lady in the case genuinely
believed this to be part of her religious
teaching; one Judge of the three on the
Bench thought the Act was intended only
to prevent imposture, and so her genuine
belief put her outside it; and all agreed
to a conviction without, in this case, any
penalty. The Court added solemnly: “It
“You can read semaphore, Andy. What’s he saying ?"
is an anachronism to include sincere be-
Jievers in spiritualism among the rogues
and vagabonds of society. Those con-
scientious believers who are wronged by
lbe legislation must make their a * ea ,
T “ •
* ’* * *
“ ’Struth”; I am no authority on the
size and flavor of apples (B. 13/9/’43),
but do know how to improve size and
flavor of apricots. At least half the credit
for my prowess must be handed to the
Egg Board, which has been the means
of my always having on hand dozens
of fowl eggs which I am not allowed to
sell or give away without yards of red-
tape. Here is my method of making good
apricots better: Dig a trench about two
feet deep at the base of a tree ; pour in
a few dozen eggs (large brown ones are
the best), then add a few pounds of butter
(which I am also forbidden to give away),
then sprinkle with soil and mix well with
a shovel. Continue until trench is filled,
then tramp it down thoroughly. This
sends vitamins A, B, C and D to the
roots, and the good work commences.
Almonds respond to this treatment, and
I have seen them cracking their shells
with laughter when they hear the
chooks. There’s only one drawback to
the apricot process—the tendency of the
fruit to cackle on hot mornings.
* * * *
“lan L”: Tell “Slap” (B. 8/9/’43)
that pectin has always been an in-
gredient of jam. It is pectin that causes
jam to “set” or “jell” when sufficiently
cooked, and many fruits, especially
apples and quinces, contain it in abun-
dance ; others, such as mulberries and
grapes, are deficient. The old-time jam-
maker used to mix the deficient fruits
with pectin-rich varieties, until the
scientist supplied the pectin separately.
* * *
“Avon”: A war-time development in
Maoriland is the reinstatement of the
piano. The place of that item of furni-
ture was challenged, , and successfully
challenged, years ago by the gramo-
phone ; the pianola and the player-piano
for a while staved off eclipse ; but the
radio set clinched the piano’s defeat. Now
the position is altered again. Teachers
of pianoforte cannot cope with the
crowds of would-be pupils, and any sort
of an instrument with a key and at least
one string to each note can find' a buyer
at a handsome price. A Wellington man
who has an old English upright that cost
him £7O in 1900 was offered £lOO for it.
That, of course, is foolishness. Pianos,
unlike violins and guitars, don’t improve
with age ; and, while anything that can
be tuned may serve for practice, an in-
strument over six or seven years old
would be rejected for recital purposes by
any front-rank pianist in normal times.
Carreno, when she toured M.L. in the
early part of the century, did some of the
smalls and' encountered some awful
public-hall pianos. She was a very brave
lady, but she said afterwards that never
again could she face up to such ordeals—
and she didn’t.
H*
“Cauboy”: 1 agree with “A Major”
(B. 15/9/’43)—in part. If listening to
music, gawking at pictures and reading
books alone were sufficient to teach people
something about them the best-equipped
critics would be the programme-sellers
at concerts, the custodians of public
galleries and the literary professors who
have read more books than Socrates ever
heard of. But art critics are seldom SO
incautious as to paint, and music critics
are not so foolhardy as to attempt a
symphony or sonata. William Archer
wrote “The Green Goddess.” A box-
office triumph, but cheap melodrama.
“Hamfat”: A newspaper reference to
Lady Macbeths this country has seen
failed to mention Nance O’Neil, the
statuesque lady who was probably the
best of all. Well remembered by the
supers, who still survive (and they are a
remarkably long-lived race) is the way
producer McKee Rankin used to
the banquet scene. He insisted on real
food, and when the nobles tore them-
selves away from the viands (Lady Mac-
beth: “Stand not upon the order of your
going, but go at once”) they knew they
would be allowed to return after the per-
formance and finish off the tucker Ran-
kin’s idea was that he was ensuring in
the best possible way, that the supers
should behave as if they really were at a
feast. They did ; but one night it didn't
wor k so well. During one of those lulls
“We successfully raided Moresby
last night; none of our bombers
is missing."
in the babble that will occur the voice of
one of the supers., doing his bit to the
best of his ability, was heard in a strident
solo. “Pass them (gory) pickles,” he said.
From Rankin’s subsequent remarks it
was understood that the reference to
pickles, and ensanguined ones at that,
was hardly a thing to be expected from a
Scottish nobleman ,of the Macbeth
period.
* * * *
From London: Captain Liddell Hart,
answering a question about discipline in
war: “It depends on what you mean by
Discipline—-the outward forms or the
inner reality. During the last war I went
temporarily from, a very ‘regular’ bat-
talion to an Australian unit. The sight of
it, on the first parade I held, was a shock;
but I soon found that the men could be
relied on to do any job, unprompted and
unsupervised, more thoroughly than any
I had known. That taught me the mean-
ing of real working Discipline.”
* * * *
“S.T.S.”: Hands up, please, anyone
except “F. 8.” (B. 15/9/’43) to whom
“ ‘next Friday’ used to mean Friday com-
ing, and ‘Friday next’ meant the Friday
after next Friday.” Was it perhaps a
Scotch usage? I have been studying words
for half a century, and have never heard
of any difference whatever between the
two meanings ; though perhaps “Friday
next” had a slightly more dignified air,
as of an announcement from the pulpit.
Hj * Jfc ♦
A POETS’ CORNER.
“A section of the Sydney Botanic Gardens has been
officially set apart as a ‘Poets’ Comer,’ in which
flowers, seats, shrubs, statuary and other worthy
objects may be planted or placed in memory of
Australian poets.”
A pleasant thought, to set a leafy hollow
Apart, and dedicate it as a shrine
To that illustrious deity Apollo,
The pagan saint of the poetic line;
A precedent for other burgs to follow,
A telling token and a salient sign
To mark the debt we owe our tuneful choir,
The chaps who smite the lyre.
Here in the days to come, for inspiration,
I see them gather, and their odes rehearse,
The minstrels in the making of our nation,
The ardent souls who will not care a curse
What geniuses frame our legislation
As long as they can hammer out its verse.
A goodlier task accounted—was it not?—
By some sagacious Scot.
Here upon themes for epics they may ponder
Or fantasies for lilting lyrics seize.
A garden-seat that’s here, a tablet yonder
May waken scarce suspected cadences
Within their souls as dreamily they wander
Among the statuary and the trees,
While subtle memories about them throng
Of bygone sons of song.
’Tis sad to feel our busts will never mingle
With those for merited memorials set
In this alluring glade, this bosky dingle.
You well may join with me in mild regret,
My brother manufacturers of jingle,
To think the nearest that we’ll ever get
To poets’ corners, with their flowers and shrubs,
Are poets’ corner pubs!
Bfc-S.wB
T. THE R.
THE INFORMAL VOTER.
“We can scarcely claim to be an educated de-
mocracy when half-a-million adults cannot mark
ballot-papers correctly.”—B. 29/9/’4.3.
Say, what a perfect farce it is with all our
schools and ’varsities,
These modern springs Pierian, too numerous
to note,
That crowds should flock multivious to polling-
booths, oblivious
In many cases of the way to register a vote.
On ’ologies and ’onomies our pedagogues and
dominies
Discourse with practised eloquence and aca-
demic ease.
They never pay attention to or deign a passing
mention to
The need for more enlightenment on little
things like these.
Of vast extent the knowledge is that’s ladled
out of colleges,
Unlimited the lore of which the student gets
his fill; . .
And yet it’s undeniable he’s every bit as liable
To make a bloomer in the booth as lom or
Jack or Jill.
How often and how bootlessly and needlessly
and fruitlessly
The freeman’s priceless privilege becomes a
thing of naught,
Because, in strict veracity, so many lack capacity
To fill a ballot paper up exactly as they
ought.
It seems a mild hypocrisy to speak of sane
democracy
When these futilities to such amazing figures run.
What use, it strikes one tellingly, to ukase pol.s
compellingly ~
When stacks of voters fail to grasp how pott-
ing should be done?
N.s.w.
IFORD.


“Wodgil”: I remember Frank Morton
writing a rhapsody on the toast of the
season at Manly, a MacPhillamy girl
from Bathurst. The dazzling creature
married Captain Hugh Richard Scarlett,
brother to Lord Abinger and A.D.C. to
old William MacGregor at Brisbane, and
bore him three sons. Her husband suc-
ceeded his brother as seventh baron—
the first was legal adviser to the “Times ’
and afterwards Lord Chief Baron of the
Exchequer—and their eldest son is now
eighth baron, his father, who got a D.S.O.
in the last war —he had received the
Queen’s and King’s Medals, with five
clasps, in South Africa —having died
“while working in a field in Inverlochy
Castle, Fort William, Inverness-shire,”
two months ago. Inverlochy Castle was
the family seat, but in 1934 Lord Abinger
made it over to the Government, with
2900 acres altogether, for use as an agri-
cultural training college. The present
Lord Abinger, the Bathurst girl’s son,
“b. Sept. 28, 1914,” is now serving in
India as a captain in the Royal Artil-
lery. His father had two brothers ; one,
the Hon. Leopold Florence Scarlett, a
lieutenant on loan from the Royal Navy,
was lost in the submarine AEI off Blanche
Bay, New Britain, 14 days before the
present Lord Abinger was born.
* * * *
“Melbn”: One of the picturesque old
bluestone churches of Victoria is Scots
Church at Campbellfield, 10 miles from
Melbourne. It was the successor to a
wooden tabernacle established by the
Rev. Thomas Mowbray in 1842. With
Mowbray came another Scottish divine,
the Rev. Peter Gunn, who wandered be-
tween Port Phillip and the Murray preach-
ing in Gaelic to little groups of High-
landers scattered about the bush. When
Mowbray went to Queensland Gunn took
hfs place in the pulpit of Campbellfie!:!
kirk, and it was he who rebuilt the
church. Mrs. Tineas Gunn, authoress of
We of the Never Never, was his
daughter-in-law. There will be a great
gathering of the clans this month when
the 101st anniversary of the church is to
be celebrated.
* * * *
“Hamer”: The city-trees discussion
recalls the onetime Sydney popularity ot
the Moreton Bay fig, ideal as umbrella
or parasol. The water-seeking, propensi-
ties of the roots mdde the tree unsuitable
for a modern city. On its criminal record
was the bursting of a waterpipe opposite
the Australian Museum. The root that
did that was traced to a tree 60 yards
away in Hyde Park. Trees that behaved
like that could not be permitted to remain
in the vicinity of the underground rail-
way, and a fine Hyde Park avenue of the
trees had to go. There is still an avenue
of them in the Domain. One of the most
magnificent specimens of the Moreton fig
Sydney possessed was in front of the old
Education Department building, stand-
ing on land now covered by the new
premises. It took eight weeks to remove
the giant. The idea of shifting it bodily,
shorn of its branches, to some new site
(the tree was historic) was abandoned
after an inspection of the deep-reaching
and wide-spreading roots.
* * * *
“X.S.”: Strange circumstances were
revealed in a trial in Melbourne. A, a
girl of 16, married B and left him three
weeks later. Two years later she met C
and went through the form of marriage.
Seven years later, having instituted divorce
proceedings against C, she was arrested
when leaving the court on a charge
of bigamy. Her defence was that she
thought her marriage with B had been
annulled, her mother having told her so.
Then one day she met B in the street
and he told her that he had by no means
ceased to be her legal husband. She
hurried to her solicitor, who advised her
to report the facts to the police, which
she did. She heard nothing more from
them, so concluded that she was, in fact,
free of her first husband. She then took
divorce proceedings against C under the
innocent belief that she was the
aggrieved party. “Not guilty,” said the jury.
* * * *
“Ologist”: Should we write “horsy’’
or “horsey,” “stripy” or “stripey, ’’ “stagy”
or “stagey,” “maty” or “matey,” “homy”
or “homey”? Fowler is the authority for
the dictum that the adjectival suffix is -<y,
not -ey. He adds: “Weak spellers are
often in doubt whether, when -y is ap-
pended to nouns in Mute e, the e is to
be dropped or kept. With the very few
exceptions given, it should be dropped.”
Of the exceptions, hole makes holey, to
prevent confusion with holy hallowed.
The other exceptions are obvious ; e is
inserted to part y from y in such adjec-
tives-from-nouns as clayey and skyey,
and the e is retained in adjectives from
nouns ending in ue—gluey and bluey.
* * * *
“Ike Hollar”: There have been some
very picturesque inhabitants of N.S.W.
old men’s homes, but the grandest of
them all was Dan O’Connor, once
P.M.G., the “janial Daniel” of N.S.W.
politics. Dan spent his last days in the
Liverpool home, and died there. Having
a Parliamentary gold pass (earned by
Ministerial tenure), he took train to town
daily, cultivating the acquaintance of his
fellow - passengers on the way down.
Attired in frock coat and top hat the
white-bearded Daniel looked distin-
guished, and as he was also eloquent it
was a poor day that he did not have
some silver to jingle in his pockets before
he reached Sydney.
* * * *
“Chevroford” on an idealisation of
agriculture:
I have before me a large poster designed to
encourage home gardeners to plant cabbages.
It depicts a glamorous young woman with an
elegant kerchief round her elegantly coiffured
head, a splendidly tailored suit of overalls on
her shapely figure, gloves (I suppose to protect
her enamelled fingernails), and one daintily-shod
foot placed on a garden fork which had never
had its purity sullied by contact with the soil.
Indeed there is not a vestige of earth in the
picture, the fork operating in a Vacuum. Nor
is there any sign of pea mite, white cabbage
moth, tomato wilt, red spider, cutworm or any
other of the pests which tend to discourage the
beginner. There isn’t even a dock or a bit of
couch grass. The damsel is looking forth with
the bland, complacent smile of one who would
deem you no gentleman if you didn’t rush up
and take the fork and do the digging for her,
and she looks as if she had about as much
"I warned you I'd put you out if you licked my face again!"
gumption as the Land Army girl who screamed
to a farmer neighbor of mine to come and
rescue her from an earthworm. I believe she is
the same girl as appeared in pre-war posters
of the Vic. Railways in a bathing-suit, with a
tennis-racquet or on skis, inviting the world
to go to Portsea, Mount Bogong or Healesville
for its Christmas vacation. Ah me! I sup-
pose you might meet a girl like that at Portsea;
but not on the vegetable front.
* * *
“Curtain Raiser”: Those who support
the Melbourne movement for a season
of pure Australian opera should back
their fancy and finance it. The Taits,
who know a bit about the business, have
seldom made a financial do of g.o. They
admitted to a loss of £40,000 on one of
their artistically most successful seasons,
when Melba and a dozen other famous
singers attended. In 1934 Ben Fuller is
said to have spent £22,000 on the cast
and £l5OO on the orchestra before the
curtain rose on “Aida,” and he handed
out £4BO for the eight rehearsals and 40
musicians in respect of “Valkyrie.” If
the supporters of Australian opera would
put up, say, £lOO,OOO and be prepared to
lose it there could be permanent Aus-
tralian opera, but I can’t see Australia
standing the racket long.
* * * *
“Cauboy”: Lud Mayor Nettlefold, ol
Melbourne, announces that, subject lo
Mr. Dedman’s approval, an up-to-date
music bowl will shortly be built in ihe
Domain near the Botanic Gardens, £3OOO
being in hand for the job. The question
arises as to whether there isn’t too much
listening to music in Melbourne already.
Dr. A. E. Floyd, the organist and choir
conductor at St. Paul’s Cathedral, a first-
class musician who has trained many
successful singers, says that in the days
of Good Queen Bess it was the custom
for hosts after dinner to hand their guests
parts for choral singing—this one the
contralto, that the soprano, that the bass
or the tenor. If they hadn’t known how
to read music their host would have been
profoundly astonished. How many hosts
in Toorak today would run that risk with
their guests? Yot there are more concerts
in Melbourne to the acre than in any part
of Australia. And the songs the Eliza-
bethans sang weren’t simple ditties like
“Waltzing Matilda” but complicated
canons, glees and madrigals. Floyd says
that that was the great age of English
music, when, musically, England led
Europe. He would like to see glee clubs,
choral societies and kindred bodies in
every street, just as there are war savings
committees.
* * * *
“Hamer”: “S.T.S.” deals in prejudice
rather than fact when he says that
“ ‘colonial’ beer was poor stuff 60 or 70
years ago” (B. 22/9/’43). That notion
was part of a widespread delusion that
nothing could be any good unless
imported. I remember the terrible scan-
dal caused by the discovery that some
colonial beer was to be served at a party
in Sydney for young Lord Clancarty.
Clancarty, getting wise to the agitation,
was sport enough to say he wanted to
sample the stuff. “What beautiful
beer!” he exclaimed after one sip, and
he stuck to “colonial” after that.
* * * *
“Spoke”: E. Bright, headmaster, and
D. W. Hood, a young teacher at Hyde-
street Central school in Melbourne, have
made a survey of seven State schools and
found a horde of boys who must remain
at school until the leaving age and be
taught Latin, advanced grammar and
kindred subjects, although they are
doomed to go out into life and take up
unskilled occupations. “What is the use
of teaching Latin to a huge lumbering
boy nearing 14 who has no interest in it
whatsoever?” Mr. Bright asks. “They
just become truants.” He may well ask.
Victorian educationists waste hundreds
of hours at the useless occupation of
teaching children a dead language when
not one in a thousand ever remembers
enough of it m later life to be able to
translate the motto on a school cap.
* * * *
“Spasebo”: Australians who judge
Russia from the Australian standpoint
may jump to the conclusion that Stalin’s
country has turned Christian overnight
because Uncle Joe has no objection to
the election of a Patriarch of the Ortho-
dox Church and a Holy Synod. From
my experience I would say he no longer
feels the slightest fear that a generation
reared on the belief that religion is the
opium of the masses will rush back to
the churches. Even in Czarist times the
general attitude to the “popes,” as the
priests were called, was much what it was
in anti-clericalist France. I once saw
a pope get a bloody nose in struggling
with a mob of fellow-Russians for a place
on a train in the middle of Siberia. Com-
ing from Australia, I was rather stag-
gered at this disrespect to the cloth, but
the Russians present seemed rather to
enjoy it. The Russian church may have
been draining the resources of the coun-
try and filling its monasteries with the
loot, but Russian priests looked-as ragged
and ill-fed as Taoist priests in China.
* * * *
“Spare Corp”: Changed methods of
warfare have led to a change also in the
soldiers’ choice of hymns, usually left to
them at church parades in front-line
areas. Diggers of this war plump for
“Onward, Christian Soldiers” and “Hold
the Fort,” whilst “There Is a Green Hill”
had a run in the desert campaigns. In
the last war “Rock of Ages” and “Lead,
Kindly Light” were undisputed favorites
—so popular that when, for a time, an
impious rascal ran a book on the church-
parade hymns he would never offer
more than evens about the chance of
either being included. His betting fin-
ished when he welshed after the padre’s
batman, having discovered the list of out-
sider hymns which the padre had him-
self prepared for a service, spread
the news amongst his cobbers, who took
long odds about them.
* * * *
“Nona”: T. W. H. Crosland, whose
talent for invective was aimed against
man, woman, the Scots, the Welsh and
the Jews, had yet another antipathy—the
Jap:
A stunted, lymphatic, yellow-faced _
heathen with a mouthful of teeth three
sizes too large for him, bulging slits where
his eyes should be, blacking-brUsh hair,
a foolish giggle, a cruel heart and the con-
ceit of the devil In 1860 he was a fan-
flicking, two-sword-wearing bilious curiosity,
notorious for his guile, his ugliness and
Ills comic-opera existence in a land of
cherry blossom, paper lanterns and barn-
yard morals.
The sample is from his Truth About
Japan (1904).
* 4: * *
“Spokeshave”: A professor of eco-
nomics, now in a war-effort berth, had a
reputation for being fully aware
of his own importance. He
took a vacation trip to Europe,
and on returning put a notice
on the board of his'classroom
that he would give a lecture on
“Economists I Have Met.” A
student amended it to “Econo-
mists Who Have Met Me.”
* * *
John Brennan, from the
Solomons:
On Guadalcanal there has arisen
a memorial chapel, built by the
Solomon Islands Native Labor
Corps under the direction of an
Australian (Lieut. Gerard Harkins,
of the Protectorate Defence Force)
as a tribute to the United States
forces.
The chapel is set in the centre
of the Army-Navy-Marine cemetery,
which lies in an area cut from a
plantation a short distance back
from Lunga Beach. Between
ordered rows of palm-trees can be
seen the bright blue waters of Sea-
lark Channel —“Ironbottom Bay,”
as it is known now —where many
of the men who rest here went to
their, death. Over their carefully-
tended graves their companions have
fashioned headstones, working in
concrete and in wood, welding shell-
cases to form the crosses, etching
plates from messkits and from the
metal from enemy ’planes. Over
the grave of a lighter-pilot the cock-
pit cover from his ’plane has been ■
erected.
The chapel sets the seal of sanc-
tuary upon it all. It is the finest
known example of Solomons crafts-
manship and artistry. The main
body is 90ft. long and 26ft. wide;
offices give it the conventional form
of a cross. A bell-tower sur-
mounted by a carved wooden cross rises
above the palm-thatched roof 26ft. above the
ground. The walls are carried out in a
variegated pattern of crossed matting woven
of kwasi-kwasi. For different parts of the con-
struction native timbers were used —ambuala
for the rafters, vatu and norlea for the roof and
altar. ,
The furnishings are carved and inlaid with
mother-of-pearl. The baptismal font, a large
clam shell, is supported on a native artist’s
highly-polished wood-carving representing an
Allied soldier; his eyes and teeth and the
buckle on his shorts are of pearlshell inlay.
The lectern is in the form of a seagull, its wide-
spread wings holding the book. On the altar
the cross is most beautifully inlaid. The candle-
sticks are of carved wood, and bamboo vases
hold bright wildflowers from the jungle. Hang-
ing from the rafters are 12 bird carvings—
doves of peace—painted in black and gold, and
three huge fish emblems. The floor is of crushed
coral, gleaming white; white paths surround it,
and gardens are being laid out.
The bell' in the tower came from the church
at Visale; it was captured by the Japanese
during their occupation of. the island, re-
taken by American troops and donated by
Bishop Aubin, Vicar Apostolic in the southern
Solomons. So long at least as military forces
remain in the South Pacific the chapel will be
at the service of chaplains of all denominations.
Dedication and presentation were moving
ceremonies. The builders, dressed in white
lap-laps and singlets, were drawn up in
front of the chapel, and their leader made a
simple speech. “Me want to tell you all people,”
he said, “that all me fella belong Solomon build
this church because we want to thank you. We
have worked hard and we hope you like this
church. And we pray that God will bless all_
of you and we hope you will pray for you
friends who are lying in this cemetery. Also
we wish to thank all the Americans and Allies
who have fought to push the enemy out of our
land. Now we give this church to you, but
this church no belong you and me; this church
belong God. And we ask God to bless us all.”
A colonel, on behalf of the British Admini-
stration handed the chapel over to the U.S.
officer administering the Island Command. Then
the native boys marched in solemn procession
round the chapel, bearing with them the silver
altar vessels and chanting in six-part harmony
the hymn “Onward, Christian Soldiers” to a
melody of their own. Behind them marched
a color-party of Army and Navy men and
Marines. The procession led on into the chapel.
There was a brief service of dedication, then a
bugler sounded the Last Post—“ Taps,” as the
American Army has it. The dead in the
near-by cemetery had their fitting monument.


ABORIGINALITIES
“C.E.”; The V.D.C. leader turned to
the half-dozen men still undetailed.
“You,” he informed them, “represent a
whole platoon, fully equipped, and you’re
changing your position to O’Reilly’s cross-
ing. Don’t be seen by those enemy bushes
on the spur, and remember the pub’s in
Jap hands.” They were over two miles
down the hill when Dan suddenly halted
the dummy platoon. “Cripes, y’ll have
t’ take a message back, Bill,” he an-
nounced. “Don’t be dippy,” was the pro-
test, “I’m the cook.” “Well, you’ll have
t’ go, Dad.” Dad Wilson held aloft a
small sapling he’d been using as a walk-
ing-stick. “What, an’ me in charge o’
this machine-gun!” he exclaimed. “Yair,
an’ don’t look at me neither,” interposed
Buck. “Can’t y’ see I’m carryin’ all the
spare magazines f’r the guns?” Dan
turned to the remaining two. “What
about you. Tommy?” “Press correspon-
dent,” was the apologetic retort. “Aw
right,” Dan gave in, “then you’ll have t’
go, Steve,” Steve assumed a heavenly
expression, “Laddie,” he mourned dole-
fully, “would you have your battalion
padre run messages? Go yourself, my
friend ; or, better still, detail one of the
imaginary rank and file —they’ll have
more chance o’ getting through without
being seen.” Dan shrugged. “Right-oh, get
one of ’em to slip back an’ tell the officer
that I left all that dynamite under the
tree where y’ tied that new thoroughbred
o’ yours, Padre. If the flighty cow stamps
round he’ll probably waste the stuff, and
it’s hard to get.”
“Wippegong”: In support of “Bad
Australian” (B. 15/9/’43), 1 record having
seen rows of galahs sitting on Riverina
telegraph wires as steadily as starlings or
swallows do. It’s the young ones which
flounder. They alight on the wires, lurch
drunkenly for a while, then topple over
and hang head down, screeching like mad,
till it occurs to them to let go. And if
“J.J.McD.” would like to see the latest
in unrehearsed aerobatics, then I’d like
to smuggle him aboard on a coastal flip
to see some bright lad in the cockpit
skim over a flight of swans, then lift the
nose sharply and present the birds with
the full fury of a medium bomber’s slip-
stream. The black beauties are usually
lost in the distance before they’ve taken
the knots out of their necks.
“B. A. Ker”: In this symposium con-
cerning a galah’s ability to perch on a
telephone wire a study of the construc-
tion of a bird’s foot might be helpful. If
it were necessary to grip physically the
object perched upon, the moment sleep
relaxed the grip the bird would fall.
Nature provided for this in her perching
birds by making the centre of the foot a
fulcrum which, under the weight of the
bird’s body, closes the toes on the perch.
The parrot family is particularly well
served in this respect as (contrary to the
majority of birds, who lock three toes
over the front of the perch and one
behind) its members point two toes for-
“ 'Ang on, mate —T'll fetch along a special."
ward and two back. The rest is merely
balance ; and Nature never designed a
better-balanced creature than a bird.
*,* * v
“Solitude”: After postponing it for
years Seventyfiver had at last made the
trip to the city, and, not knowing whether
or not he was back at the run camp, I
decided to investigate. Mile after end-
less mile of virgin bush I covered, pick-
ing a track over granite ridges or slither-
ing down slopes to check a bunch of
strays. Then on over the tops, through
saddles, across a stream or two, till four
hours later I struck the gorge where in
that region we usually camp. There was
a penetrating stillness in this belt of
giants, but presently the rattle of a stirrup
iron on rock showed me the old bloke
riding in from the opposite direction. At
the hut he rolled off, lectured his nag,
whistled to a magpie, and with one foot
on a log was discussing prospects with
his mong as I rode up. “Back on the
job?” I greeted. “Thought you might
be still in town.” He grinned a welcome,
“Been back three weeks,” he announced,
“Y’ have! Cripes, you didn’t stay away
long!” He shook his head solemnly,
“No longer than I could help,” was his
reply ; “they’re too flamin’ lonely, them
cities.”
**. * *
Chuck : With their first-class garage
mechanic a soldier in the making, the
locals had the makings of a first-class
soldier as a garage mechanic. “Hey,
Peter,” called Mac, pulling up at the
garage, “there’s a tinkling noise in the
bus. Find it, will y’?” Peter lifted the
bonnet, surveyed the engine and scratched
his head. Hm, thats funny!” he mur-
mured after a bit, and, strolling round
the other side, stared again and hitched
his pants. Presently he collected a spanner
and began banging everything in sight.
Four hours later he slammed down
the oonnet. There, he drawled with
a grunt of satisfaction, I think yll find
her awnght now, Mac. S long. Mac
set off homeward. To the tinkling was
now added a loud knocking; the bus
refused to pull uphill, and he ended by
pushing her the last half-mile. Two
months after that he was passing the
garage when the mechanic hailed him and
politely mentioned the account for re-
pairs. “Sure, we’ll fix it now,” Mac
volunteered. “Got it handy?” Peter
produced the bill, and Mac stared at it
wonderingly. “Now, that’s funny,” he
muttered, scratching his head. Presently
he hitched his pants, and grabbing a
pencil began to check the account. Items
were written over and figures altered and
realtered till they were indecipherable.
Then with a grunt of satisfaction he
handed the paper back to Peter. “There
y’ are; I think y’ll find she’s fixed up all
right now, Peter, me boy,” he said
heartily. “S’long.”
* * * *
“D.A.”; That dog named Kelpie (B.
22/9/’43) also won trials in America.
The original fox-collies imported by
Allen, of Geraldra station, not only pro-
duced Caesar but a black dog with pricked
ears they called Moss. One of Kelpie’s
grandpups, fathered by Moss, was bought
from an abo. by Hedley Edols, of Burra-
wang station. This dog was called The
Barb after a noted racehorse of the day.
Thus the kelpies and barbs are full
cousins. Contention is that the kelpie
threw back to the fox characteristics in
the collie dog, while the barb leaned
towards the Border collie. The name
kelpie is Gaelic for water spirit.
* * * *
“Betcha”: That one (B. 8/9/’43) about
the sheep dying of thirst because they
wouldn’t travel with the wind to where
there was known water was good, very
good; still 1 don’t think it’s a patch on
Jack and the Beanstalk. Three times I
read “Jumbuck’s” par., and if there isn’t
a catch in the thing somewhere the num-
ber 0 f f re ak woollies I’ve been mixed up
wdb dur j n g the last quarter of a century
j s phenomenal. Thousands of ’em. For
every time one of those freezing sleet
storms sweeps through, those sheep be-
have just like other animals and, turning
the i r rumps, drift with the wind. And
a f ter shearing, when a cold snap has
ar rived from the south, the times I’ve
ridden the north boundary and counted
tbe casualties! The only times I found
frozen mutton in the southern end was
wben tbe storm drove from the north,
Undoubtedly sheep like windy slopes
They’ll camp’ on a windy knob, and will
f eed j n t 0 the breeze. But to drift into
tbe teeth of a gale that tucks them up
w ; t h cold—well mine don’t
* ’* * *
“Aratta”; The young John Hop sent
to take charge of the country station
showed too much zeal. Deadbeats and
pub bots he made a dead-set at. In the
main street he came across a frowsily-
dressed old fellow sitting half-asleep in
the sunshine on the end of the water-
trough in front of one of the pubs,
“Time you were on your way, me man,”
he said authoritatively. “ ’Spose it is,”
repl i ed the other, grinning ; “I’ve been
here long enough.” “Too long,” said the
cop pointedly. The other slithered off the
trough and toddled away. Five minutes
]ater he waved t 0 the cop f rom the w heel
of a huge ii moU sine. The cop nearly
choked and made a move forward,
“Good heavens,” he cried, “the cheeky
cow ’ s pinched somebody’s car!” A
local stan ding by laughed. “He’s all
right consta ble,” he said; “that’s ole
Blank; he owns everything in the district
except the streets y’re walkin’ on. Buys
h'imself a new car every coupla years
arf a new suit once in ten.”
* * * *
“Horseless Horseman”: As the old
three-decker steers a winding course to
humor the Murray, everyone is shifting
seats to keep in the sun or walking im-
portantly from the port side around to
starboard to find there more water, more
land and more gum-trees. Other than
the anticipation of what is around the
bend and the next, conversation con-
cerns the river very little, unless it be to
describe a mob of bullocks ashore as
“cows” or to ask the skipper—in my day
he was Billy Drage, that champion ques-
tion-answerer from Renmark—if his ship
was any good for aquaplaning. Only
occasionally do you see the Murray in
the real. It came one day as we cheered
a passing whaler and wished him a good
trip. Apparently overcome by such
an unexpected ovation, the old-timer for-
got to take our wash head-on and was
nearly swamped in his little box-boat.
Then very impressively he wished us all
a good trip—but not down the Murray!
* * * *
“Blackboy”: The Kimberley boy who
occupied the post of tracker at the police
station having suddenly developed home-
sickness and started on a 1000-mile walk,
Jimmy Pintpot of the local tribe was en-
listed pro tem. Jimmy was a success ;he
achieved an old visored cap, the ser-
geant’s old coat and a pair of worn-out
corduroys that the mounted constable had
left hanging in the harness-room. Came
the Coolgardie races ; Jimmy was granted
holiday, and at the head of the tribe
started off out of town. Down towards
the end of the dusty main street Joe
Bottle, who was a bit of a gossoon, let
out a howl of delight. “By cripes, I
found two tschillin’.” Pintpot wheeled
round. “Where you find
him?” “Here. Right where
1 standin’. In the dust.” Pint-
pot held out his hand. “That
right; that just where I drop
him. I just testin’ you
honesty. I in the police now.
Hand him over.”
* * *
“Pat Ater”: I offer this in
soliloquy. Nature relies as
much on bluff as on those
other defensive attributes of
“tooth and claw,” camouflage
and speed for the survival of
her wildling species. Take the
case of Moloch horrid us, an
awesome little beast with an
apt scientific moniker—
horned head, tough skin, with
a row of spiny spikes down
his backbone. He hails from
the hot, dry inland, this lizard
ant-eater —commonly called
forest or mountain devil or
Australian dragon; and if
you see him there, the whole
nine inches of him, tongue
flashing defiance, you’ll be-
lieve that both descriptions fit
well. Call his bluff and you
find a slow - moving little
creature, amiable enough to be handled,
but asking only to be left to his
own devices. He doesn’t take to cap-
tivity, though, and the only one I saw
found a way out of a carefully-con-
structed cage, to wander—how far?—in
a strange land of cats and dogs. Bluff
may have seen him through, but Moloch’s
short stay convinced that he’s also an
adept at dodging trouble, which may, in
the final test, serve him best,
*** . * .
“Yarloo”: At a race meeting held at
Andamooka station, 140 miles out from
Port Augusta (S.A.), the clerk of scales,
an overseer of a rather fussy disposition,
insisted on riders wearing distinguis i
ing colors. Charlie Collins, from an ad-
joining station, when refused the ug
to put his blackboy jockey up m his
ordinary clothes, pulled off me poy s
shirt, tied an old red handkerchief diago-
nally round his body and declared ms
colors to be a black jacket and red sash.
The unique colors were first past the post.
* * * , • *ffpndve
Plane Creek : A mild, i
hound was Popeye, halt fox
bull terrier, and the other dogs
hfe a burden. When the og ,
shared out at dusk they bol
then his. He d spend hour P
a hole under the house, on Y
out with his one sound eye closea. inc
father of the other dogs, a foxy or pem-
gree, never interfered with me oua-an,
*nd finally the latter turned to mm
a possible friend. For months ne iawne
around the old dog, licking ms
whining in token of respect, but bpot
growled vindictively every time an
showed vicious teeth cavaeelv
da Y when, paying atten ion at f ac ked bv
protesting Spot, Popeye took one
a canine Tojo. The old dog io
look, and then with a ioar oi g
pounced on the a g gr ®“°f’7“° d a y dislo .
retreated with a gory } at p op .
cated shoulder. Spot still growl tP P
eye s advances, but the outcast is a y
left severely alone when the mg
around.
BILL THE WHALER.
Old Bill the Whaler said to me
One day in Hobart Town,
“You must’ve spent your life at sea;
I’ll wager half-a-crown
You’ve seen the big bulls blow when
Dawn
Was hailing Night to say
‘When all your nigger troops are gone.
We’ll have another day’.. .
“You must have been a whaler,
That’s clear as clear can be,
For you walk like one
And you talk like one,”
Said Whaler Bill to me;
“And you think like one
And you drink like one—
You must have been to sea.
“You must have seen Solander Bill
That not a ship could take
Till Tommy Atwood made his kill
For the Hobart whalers’ sake.
You must have been —why, damn my
eyes
And may my eyes be damned —
You might have been in the Surprise,
The ship the Black Bull rammed.
“You’ve seen the Campbells’ misty peaks—
The way you talk, you must —
And how the Campbells’ whirlwind
speaks,
The wind no man can trust.
You’ve seen the trypots’ lurid glow
Light up the big, dim sails,
And seen the Flyin’ Dutchman go
In them Antarctic gales.
“You know about the Spotted Bull
And old New Zealand Tom;
I’ll bet you had a bellyful
Of pulling out and home
When big winds blew like blooming
guns—
Just sons of guns, they were.
You know the way the big surge runs
Along the sides of her
“When you’re dead-beat and grabbing at
The boat-falls, swinging wide.
You’ve worn the outward-bounder’s hat
And waited for the tide.
And fought the cops who took you out
From pride and stubbornness—
It was a kind of final shout;
Your pay was one quid less.”
Old Bill the Whaler filled his glass.
“No glass should have a lid!
I bet you’ve seen some summers pass
Since you were just a kid.
I know I have, and that’s a fact —
Fourscore and more I am,
And every darned year has been packed
With fun and rum and jam.”
Old Bill the Whaler died that day,
And though his lips were still
As I stood there they seemed to say
What they had said on many a day . ..
O God! I missed Old Bill.
Maybe in Sunset Shanty-bars
On Resurrection Morn
We’ll meet far out, where western stars
And westerlies are born.
Beyond Kerguelen—far beyond—
Where comets light the nights,
Old Bill and I will correspond
From distant, dizzy heights.
“You must have been a whaler”
—His message will be free —
“Cos you talk like one
And you walk like one—
You must have been to sea.
And you think like one
And you drink like one,”
Old Bill will signal me.
N.S.W.
WILL LAWSON.


“Bo”: Ted Mooney, giving up the
billiard - saloon, bought a block at
the foot of Bald Hill. He erected a
three-roomed slab kipsy sufficient to suit
his bachelor needs. Then one day, while
at work on some pig pens, he looked up
on hearing a terrific thumping to see a
huge boulder bounding down the hill. It
missed the shack by about 25ft., pulling
up after it had punched a couple of
panels of the lower boundary fence down.
The phlegmatic Ted went on with his
pen construction. Two weeks later when
he started ploughing—most of his block
was as bald of timber as the hill above
him—he just had time to get to shelter
behind a big bloodwood stump as a five-
ton oblong-shaped rock slithered slowly
down the slope and came to rest within
10ft. of the stump. Ted just drawled
“Gripes, that’d have knocked a bloke
rotten if it had hit him,” and calmly went
on ploughing. On the next Sunday
Mason, his neighbor, was over having a
yarn to him. They were standing by the
pig pens when the now-familiar thumping
sound was heard. They both looked up as
a hefty rounded boulder came bouncing
down the hill. It hit the flat rock near the
bloodwood stump, shot off at a tangent,
careered down the hill, belted the tank-
stand Ted had just erected and shot off
again to lob fair into the middle of the
dam. Ted followed its course, a gleam
of admiration lighting his eye. “There! ”
he said, turning to Mason. “I bet y’
never seen a better cannon shot than
that!”
* * * *
“Jemalong Jim”: “Warroo” Walters,
broke and thirsty, drifted into Flannery’s
pub one day and said “Look, Jack, how
about a couple on the cuff? I got a job
“How about a nice forequarter of goanna. Missus?"
f go t’ just outa the town, startin’
t’morrow. I’ll fix y’ up on Saturday.”
Flannery looked him over, drew a pot and
passed it over the counter. “Drink that,”
he said, “but don’t tell me any of y’r
ruddy lies. You got no job. If you
blokes only had the gumption t’ come
straight up an’ tell a man the truth y’d
be thought more of.” Walters downed
the pot thoughtfully, thoughtfully put it
on the counter and thoughtfully said
“Y’ mean if a bloke admitted he
hadn’t a razoo an’ no job y’d spring him
a pot?” Flannery nodded. “Right,”
said Walters. “I’m broke an’ got no job.
How about it?” “We’re square,” said
Flannery “I owe y’ a pot for bein’
f ° U , g h ht door han tef ° re ’ “ Warr °°” headed
lor . # *
“J. Rilston”: In retort to “T.V.” (B.
1/9/’43) I don’t recognise Lake Torrens
as being in the Centre. Also, it obviously
in the recent geological past was an arm
of the sea, an extension of Spencer s
Gulf. As such it probably became land-
locked very slowly, either by an earth
uplift or perhaps merely because of the
outlet becoming gradually choked with
sand. Under such conditions vast beds
of salt would accumulate, thus render-
ing any recent accumulation of water
briny. But many of the Centre lakes were
until recently actual bodies of fresh
water, so that the salt found in their beds
really is only the small percentage that
naturally would concentrate from the
evaporation of a million or so tons of
potable water. A good example is Han-
nans Lake, just beyond Kalgoorlie and
400 miles inland. A flood rainfall fills
this depression for anything up to 20
miles. Life immediately appears, myriads
of tadpoles and that curious crustacean
A pus Australiensis. Yet when this
purely temporary body of water slowly
contracts under evaporation it gradually
becomes salt, until the final pools are
many times salter than the sea. This is
typical of most central lakes, though
there are some which have never within
the knowledge of the white held enough
water to be really put to the test.
*** ■ »
“The 0.D.”: This “Narrin” bloke,
who tries to make out he’s a wizard
with .22-calibre guns, must have a bad
memory. Picking on “Ek D.” (B.
29 /9 / ’43) about the carrying range of a
.22 pistol, he says that “if it happened to
be the long-barrelled German weapon
mentioned in my par. about the fox it
could do the trick.” That par. (B.
25/8/’43 was to the effect that Adelaide
“Advertiser” had claimed that a fellow
had shot a fox at 300 yards with a .22
automatic pistol, and “Narrin” seemed
willing to believe it. Nothing was said
of a German pistol imported by W. E.
Ekins, as “Narrin” alleges, and the truth
of the matter now is that “N.” has con-
vinced himself that he shot the fox —at
least that’s the way his latest par. reads.
I’m tipping that, a few months hence,
he’ll be telling us how he did it.
* * * *
“Nor-west”: That little sketch of the
tide talking at Port Hacking (B. 1/9/’43)
reminds me that an approaching cyclone
also indulges in a little conversation.
Taken generally, the roar Of the sea beat-
ing on a long, sandy beach has a rowdy
genial note that seems to say that though
anyone is likely to get a ducking no real
harm is intended. But for a couple of
days before a cyclone is due the roar takes
on a note of the sinister. The combers
roll in dark and oily, instead of frothing
and gurgling; they break with a hollow
booming sound. The sky echoing to this
seems dark and vaulted, though there
may not be a definite cloud in sight.
Twenty fathoms down the man in the
diving dress hears it also. Usually he can
hear nothing, but now the water seems
full of tremors which, impacting against
his helmet, become translated into small
but disquietening sounds. In the days
when whites wore the dress heed was
taken of such undersea warnings, and
despite that shell might be plentiful a
move would be made towards shelter,
But when the Jap came he, a fatalist,
gave no heed, with the result that a big
blow often caught the pearling fleet at
sea.
* „ * *, . , *
P £term J c le [ ura l s h°rtage
will not ,aJfecti the output of ajbeep_f a ™»
n ear Violet Town (Vic.).
ss £ tz? jL Cor cZ/™
fbelirleStitTderbu^rthrwSuM
probably go off with a louder bang
than a howitzer. Do you mean to
say you really fire that thing- 1 asked,
“Certainly ; just wait and 111 load it.
“Don’t bother!” I said hastily, and drove
away. After all, women like that would
hardly be interested in life or accident
insurance policies,
* * * *
“Old-timer”: Don’t tell me the Aus-
tralian reverence for defunct bushrangers
is dead. Was up at Forbes (N.S.W.)
recently and, after attending a local
cemetery, took a stroll round to see if
any old identities had passed on since my
last visit to thejfiace. When 1 saw it last,
in 1936, Ben mil’s tombstone there had
carved on it his name and date of death,
May 5, 1864. There had once been
black paint, but it had faded. Now the
stone carries the name and date of death
in bold black lettering, put on by an
amateur hand and looking like it. But
“So’s you won't forget me, of gal, when I'm at sea!”
who took the trouble to cart a pot of
paint and a brush up to the cemetery,
which is a couple of miles from the heart
of the town?
* * * *
“Zake”: The cove who, on being re-
quested to give directions for getting from
one place to another, grabs a stick and
draws a crude map on the ground is a
familiar enough figure outback. But I
once struck a station cook who went one
better. He, before looking around in vain
for the traditional twig, grabbed a hand-
ful of flour, distributed it over the floor
and drew directions with his finger.
“Walkabout”: “Edjudina” (B.
8/9/’43) is right about the inquisi-
tive habits of emus, and it’s rather
remarkable the patience Binghi
shows in playing on the big birds’
curiosity when he feels like an emu
steak. During one drought period
when emus were forced to come
into the bullock paddock for water
old Bogey took up his battle-station
shortly after daylight in some long,
dry grass. With a piece of rag tied
to a long stick he waited until early
afternoon, when, with the appear-
ance of a mob of emus on the
plain, he commenced to attract their
attention by moving the stick and
its pennon slowly backwards and
forwards. We were bringing in a
mob of killers when we saw the
emus and, knowing where Bogey
was hidden, we watched the subse-
quent proceedings'. The emus, half
a dozen of them, after sighting the
moving rag, walked steadily to-
wards it and the hidden black, but
as the birds seemed a bit wary and
took too long to get within range
we rode on. That night, however,
we heard of the aged abo. s suc-
cess ; he’d let fly a tomahawk and got
his bird just before sundown. It was
about three o’clock when we pulled up
to watch the emus, then about a quarter
of a mile from the waiting nig.
* * * *
“Mat’s Mate”: The cocky had us saw-
ing wood on a circular saw geared up
to a tractor. He was tailing out, Mat was
on the bench and I was on the ends of
the logs. We were swinging along in
good style until the tractor spluttered.
The boss made a dash for it. He tried
to jump over the belt to get to the con-
trols, missed his footing and landed just
as the tractor picked up again. The belt,
luckily for him, pulled him into the
tractor pulley, and I managed to
get there in time and switch the thing
off. It left the boss bound by his shirt
and overalls to the machine. “Come
on,” he cried excitedly to Mat. “Get me
free! Get me free!” Mat was rolling
a cigarette. “Aw, there’s no hurry, he
said. “Y’ better stay fr a bit an’ think
how y’r habit o’ rushin’ at everyth
might ha’ got y’ sawed inter foot blocks.”
Then he got up and went leisurely to free
the boss.
* * * *
“Botano”; Of all the trees that grow
on the Australian continent I nominate
the Norfolk Island pine as the noblest.
Not in stature, not in quality of timber,
nor even as the giver of shade; but as a
vegetable warrior able to stand unflinch-
ing against Nature’s fiercest element, the
wild winds of the sea. For the past ten
winters I have been observing a planta-
tion growing on top of a 50ft. cliff on
the rim of the southern Indian Ocean.
With the exception of these pines every-
thing vegetable bends before the strong
summer breezes and the fierce winter
gales, and grows bent, even such indi-
genes as the low-growing banksia and the
stunted coastal jarrah. But the pines
tower up without the slightest deviation
from the perpendicular. They give some-
what before the fiercest of the blasts;
their layers of curious branches may lash
and bend, but the moment the pressure
slackens everything returns to perfect
symmetry again. Is there another tree on
the globe with the same strength?
* * * ♦
“Gumsuckcr”: As a youngster one
of my early jobs was rope-walking
for an old English ropemaker. My tool
of trade was a bow something after the
style of a carpenter’s hand brace, but
with a longish hook instead of the bor-
ing bit. The “weaver” knelt in the midst
of a pile of grass made slightly
damp. He took a handful of long
stems, bent them double and looped
them over the hook of my bow%
retaining the ends in his hands. Then
as I slowly rose upright and walked
backwards, turning the bow slowly all
the time, with deft fingers he gathered the
damp grass so that from the loose pile
a rope emerged. About 100 feet was the
length of my walk and of the rope ; be-
yond that the weight became too great
for hand turning, except in the case of
thin ropes. Our market was thin light
band used by farmers for the hand-tying
of hay—this had the advantage that it
could go through the chaffcutter and be
eaten without harm —and heavier rope
used largely by ironfounders for the
making of cores, necessary for the dis-
placement of metal in the moulding of
large pipes and cast-iron columns.
* * * *
“Anthropo”: The weak point about
“Bad Australian’s” quotation from Grey’s
narrative of his explorations in the
Glenelg River district (B. 1/ 9 / ’43) is that
up to that time Grey’s acquaintance with
any other country noted for good shoot-
ing in the way of game was very limited.
He had never seen a real game country
such as North America or Africa. And
the records of that first expedition, if
carefully read, show that the amount of
game shot was remarkably small. Alan
Cunningham and Major Mitchell may
have found fur, fish and fowl in what
they considered abundance, but others
tell no such story. Burke and Wills died
of starvation in what was not such very
bad country; Sturt and McDouall Stuart
went on very short commons; while
private overlanders —Eyre, the Brock-
mans, the Duracks and Nat Buchanan —
all speak of having to kill the beasts they
were driving for meat, which they cer-
tainly wouldn’t have done had the coun-
try shown any abundance of game. But
all agree as to the abundance of blacks.
THE QUESTING RIDER.
One noontide under burning skies,
When stirless lay the Barrier Range,
I met a rider in whose eyes
There dwelt a something wild and strange.
While mute in trackside bush and tree,
Stilled by the heat, swooned breeze and
bird,
Like one who looks but does not see
He passed me by without a word.
I might have been a stump or stone
As thus unheeding me he sped,
That rider, taciturn and lone,
With ne’er a smile or nod of head.
Stern-faced upon his horse’s back
Westward he rode with ne’er a stay,
While splintered quartz upon his track
Agleam like broken china lay.
Like one who some far vision views
And seeing seeks is he, I thought;
For aye a dreamer who pursues
His dream, and deems all else as naught.
And then, as through the stirless noon
That lonesome rider pressed his quest,
I saw afar a strange lagoon
With mirage lights upon its breast.
N.S.W.
RODERIC QUINN.


Australian, Mercantile, Land & Finance
Company, Limited
(INCORPORATED IN ENGLAND IN 1863)
WOOL, FAT STOCK, STORE AND STUD STOCK.
PRODUCE AND PROPERTY SALESMEN
General Manager for Australia; R. SINCLAIR SMITH.
ADVANCES MADE ON GRAZING PROPERTIES, ON STOCK, AND ON
CONSIGNMENTS OF WOOL, SKINS, HIDES, TALLOW, ETC.
LICENSED AUCTIONEERS, STOCK AND STATION AGENTS.
SYDNEY OFFICE: A. M. MURDOCH, Manager.
ALSO AT MELBOURNE, BRISBANE, NEWCASTLE, WAGGA, HENTY, HAY, MOREE,
TOWNSVILLE, CHARLEVILLE, BUENOS AIRES, LONDON.
GENERAL AGENTS IN NEW SOUTH WALES FOR NORTHERN ASSURANCE CO.. LTD.
FOR MINERAL MIXTURES AND LICKS
FOR CATTLE
JSterilised
BONE FLOUR
TO REMEDY PHOSPHORUS DEFICIENCY
IN PASTURES AND FODDER.
All particulars from:—
DAVIS GELATINE, G.P.O. BOX 35835, SYDNEY
G.P.O. BOX 4058, MELBOURNE.
EGELABRA MERINOS
RAMS FOR SALE
APRIL, 1942, DROP. SHORN APRIL, 1943.
NOW READY FOR DELIVERY.
Early application is advised for these Rams,
which are very suitable for Spring and Summer
Joining.
PRICE: FIVE to TEN GUINEAS.
H. E. KATER & SON,
EGELABRA TEL,; WARREN 10 ;;
/
WARREN, N.S.W.
d
CYatvogaS
-KILL THOSE RABBITS
SAVE
MANPOWER
“IT’S THE GAS THAT KILLS THEM”
CYANOGAS quickly, cheaply, cleanly and salely destroy. rabbit*
yermin. Economical, easy to use. No waste. PROTECTS YOUR SHEEP.
Obtainable from
all Storekeepers
throughout Australia.
BUZACOTT-WOLSELEY PTY..LTD.,
7-11 MARKET STREET, SYDNEY.
THE MAN ON
THE LAND
"DON'T WORRY. I'M SENDING IT TO
GRAZCOS."
Shearing Delays.
“Mufrawong”: Shearing in N.S.W. and
Victoria is at least a month behind
schedule, owing to several causes, most
important being the weather. The winter
was showery and cold, and only the fact
that sheep were in fairly good condition
in most districts saved heavy losses.
There wasn’t much heavy rain, but there
was plenty of cloudy weather, with
from five to 50 points of rain every few
days. Between mid-August and mid-
September rain fell on 13 days, and there
were wet sheep in practically every dis-
trict.
The result is serious. Under the zoning
system N.S.W. and Victoria should shear
over a million sheep a day at this period
to keep up to schedule. With wet weather
cutting out nearly half the working days
in the period, the two States are probably
15,000,000 sheep behind it.
Another factor is shortage of labor and
the attitude of many shearers. Contrac-
tors find it impossible to fulfil obligations
because men refuse to go to sheds and
districts known to have hard sheep. Runs
carrying only crossbred ewes and lambs
have no difficulty, but runs where wethers
reign are being ignored. Many have been
unable to get teams, and the shearing
period of their zone is coming to an end
with no prospect of getting their sheep
shorn before summer. Full boards are
the exception rather than the rule, and
many six-, eight- and ten-stand sheds have
at times been reduced to one shearer.
Teams have been knowil to shear for a
day or two and then walk off because
the job was not to their liking. Trouble-
makers have had, and are having, an
open go.
A bad feature is the tendency of some
graziers to offer inducements to get their
sheep shorn. The award is being flouted
every day by offers of higher rates, travel-
ling and transport allowances, keep and
bonuses. This sort of thing acts as an
incentive to bargaining by shearers for
the best they can get, and is bad for
the whole industry.
Small properties are working largely by
co-operative effort, pooling resources to
help shear one another’s sheep. The pros-
pect isn’t bright. If the weather warms
up blowflies will be active and woolly
sheep, particularly lambing ewes, will
have a bad time. This would be bad
enough in ordinary time, but the shortage
of farm and station labor makes the care
of flyblown sheep almost impossible.
Properties with jetting plants may be able
to cope with it; small sheepowners could
benefit from community portable jetting
plants.
“C.S.”: The zoning system overlooked
two things—weather and the reaction of
shearers. The weather can’t be controlled,
though it can be allowed for. It was all
very well to make zones and order that
shearing in them should be done within
prescribed dates, but it v#n’t work while
shearers can pick and choose their sheds.
Australian Beef.
“B-gar”: If it is to hold its own in
overseas markets after the war more
attention must be paid to methods of
production. We’ve got breeding and
fattening areas and studs producing the
right sires, but rigorous culling of breeders
and a breaking-down of the prejudice
against hornless cattle in the north are
necessary.
In Argentina nearly all steers are de-
horned as calves, and buyers of chiller
beef for export won’t look at horns. It
would be good for the Australian cattle
industry if meatworks companies refused
to buy horned steers or bullocks except
on a lower rate per 1001 b. to that prevail-
ing for poleys or dehorned cattle. It
might yet be necessary for the Common-
wealth Government to take a hand and
make the dehorning of all male beef cattle
as calves Compulsory.
“Curlew”: Dehorning adult cattle is
sound economically and not as brutal as
it looks, but I prefer to do it when the
beast is only a few weeks old. I did
my poddies as far back as 45 years ago
without a gouger or caustic potash.
The method was to rub with a wet
finger over the budding horn, using only
enough water to moisten the bud and at
its base, then apply a small quantity of
caustic lye (caustic soda used in soap-
making). Don’t use too much water or
soda or the stuff will trickle down the
face and cause a burn. Don’t loiter over
the job, for when the stuff starts to burn
the calf will wake up.
If not enough caustic has been used
the horns will develop as buttons. Many
cattle when full-grown look like natural
polled, but, of course, will produce
horned cattle if used for breeding.
Poisoning Trees.
“Plane- Creek”: Trees die without
suckering when they are poisoned during
the winter months. One pound of arsenic
and 21b. of caustic soda to four gallons
of water is sufficiently strong to kill most
trees, but use a double-strength mixture
for quick killing.
Put arsenic and caustic in a kero.-tin
and pour water over them from a cup, at
the same time mixing vigorously with a
stick. The mixture will boil and bubble.
When all bubbling has ceased, fill the
vessel with water and the solution is
ready for use.
“Frill” the trees by making downward
cuts with an axe through the bark into
the wood. The bark should be severed
right around the trees, and “frilling”
should be done not more than a foot
from the ground It is better to “grub”
native apple, for the trees are very hard
to kill. A dipper or an old kettle makes
poisoning easier. Solution should be
poured slowly into the ring. Allow one
quart of solution for a tree 4ft. in
diameter ; less for small trees and sap-
lings. Wear rubber gloves to keep the
mixture from touching the hands. After
poisoning a tree mark' it by throwing
dust or wood ashes into the ring.
Keep stock away from poisoned trees
for a few months. If there’s long grass,
leave it until the trees are properly dead,
then burn it, and often most of the trees
will be burned down.
Manuring Vegetables.
“B.”; You can’t beat rotted stable
manure for poor soil. It’s richer than
the fresh product, not so likely to burn
the plants and acts more quickly on early
crops. When it’s lacking, use decom-
posed leaves or lawn cuttings from the
compost heap. Apply as a layer dressing
one to two inches, thick at a depth of
eight to ten inches about six weeks before
planting.
Soil fed fresh manure needs lots of
water to prevent overheating. Cow and
pig manures are good moisture holders
in summer, but slower in action. Poultry
droppings contain double the nitrogen
and phosphate of horse or Cow manure.
When used fresh, dig in lightly. Lime
counteracts soil acidity and makes for
aeration and better drainage. Give loams
or heavier soils lib. slaked lime or l|lb.
ground limestone per square yard. Clay
loams or clays take twice the amount.
Don’t apply lime and manure at the same
time or the nitrogen in the lime is lost.
Let a week elapse between applications.
Lettuce, cabbage and silver beet are
tenderer when forced with liquid manure.
Soak a sugar bag of fresh poultry, cow
or pig droppings in a cask containing 40
to 50 gallons of water for a week. Use
at rate of one part to three of water.
Fill up again. At end of second week
use with equal parts of water. Fill again
and third week use neat. If four gallons
are given every 18 feet of a running row
once a week, there’s no need for other
stimulants. Don’t apply to dry soil—
water it first.
When using artificial fertilisers, allow
cabbage 2oz. sulphate of ammonia per
square yard. Carrots, parsnips and red
beet require a mixture of 4oz. super-
phosphate and 2oz. sulphate of ammonia
to the square yard. Lime-deficient soils
planted to swedes, turnips, peas and legu-
minous crops require 21b. slaked lime
every yard two to three weeks before
sowing. Peas can take 2oz. to 3oz. super,
per yard. Broadcast, hoe in and repeat
as the crop grows. Stimulate beans the
same way, increasing the superphosphate
to 4oz.
Prior to planting, work 2oz. sulphate
of ammonia and 3oz. super, into each
square yard of the lettuce bed. Follow
up with a dose of 2oz. sulphate. Onions
like their soil pepped up with 4oz. bone
super, or super. Best for tomatoes is a
soil rich in rotted organic manure or
given Boz. bonedust or a mixture of 2oz.
sulphate and 6oz. super, per square yard.
Scatter and work in. Once the first
flowers have set, give a second manuring
half strength of the first. When there’s
no stable manure, feed silver beet 6oz. to
Boz. bone dust or blood and bone per
square yard.
Phalaris Out West.
“Jumbuck”; Phalaris tubewsa (Too-
woomba canary-grass) would go a long
way towards alleviating drought condi-
tions in western areas if encouraged to
become well established. A perennial,
phalaris should enter largely into p.i.
schemes ; it has proved its ability to hold
its own in areas registering less than 20
inches annually. During droughts
phalaris has survived when perennial rye
and other grasses were wiped out.
During the 1939-40 drought in western
N.S.W. hundreds of acres of it shot and
grew vigorously after the first rain. Ex-
cept weeds, nothing showed except
phalaris until after the next rains weeks
later. This unexpected growth allowed
us to stop artificial feeding of several
thousand sheep. And they more than
held their own until later rains brought
along herbage and other grasses.
Hints for the Farm.
• “W.M.H.”: At recent Newmarket
(Melbourne) sheep sales fats in the wool
have been making shillings per head
under their true value. These sheep were
bought by wholesalers who had them
shorn before slaughter, thus deriving full
value for the wool on their backs. Halt
values are being got by graziers for
sheepskins sent to market or sold locally.
This can be overcome by shearing on the
property all skins from half-wool up-
wards. Have a bag of wheat or similar
round object on the board, place skin on
this and do the “long blow” with the
“bog-eye.” Sort the wool if quantity is
sufficient and get your money’s worth.
“L.C.”: A cow with grass staggers
loses control of its movements. In acute
cases the beast falls in a fit and may not
recover. Though fits occur in less seri-
ous attacks, staggering and jumpiness are
main symptoms. Change the animal on
to fresh pastures. To treat, inject 250
c.c. of 20 p.c. calcium of borogluconate.
If the cqw doesn’t respond call the vet.
“M.”; Soil will become “pigsick” if
the animals are not moved to new ground
at regular intervals. If there is no spare
land plough the pig paddock now and
then. Keep the youngest pigs in the
cleanest paddocks and build movable
shelter sheds and self-feeders.
“Mullengah”: For windbreaks and
shade on an irrigation farm, willows are
ideal. They are easy to start and quick-
growers. Plant them in winter along
channels wherever required, ‘using cut-
tings 6ft. to Bft. long, put in 18in. deep.
“B.”: Pruning and tying <,tomatoes
help the yield. Cut away surplus shoots
below the two main stems. Use water
sparingly. If the weather’s dry, soak the
plants thoroughly early in the day and
follow up with a shallow cultivation. To
prevent blight attacks spray every 10 to
14 days with Bordeaux mixture (4fOZ.
copper sulphate, hydrated lime in
five gallons water). Use wooden, enamel
or china containers.
“Myrrhee”: Nitrate of soda, used as
a side dressing when the plants are six
to eight weeks old, will give a fillip to
all leafy vegetables. A light dressing
every ten days from then to maturity will
increase yield and improve appearance.
Don’t apply too heavily to Brussels
sprouts, as the rapid growth will “blow
them. In small gardens it is best applied
in water, loz. to the gallon.
“Louden”; At the sou’-west Westra-
lian property where I worked we used to
tip the sawdust from our small mill on
the patches of blackberry that grew along
the river bank. In autumn we fired the
heaps. They burned for weeks, and gave
the ground beneath them such a baking
that the roots of the pest were destroyed
utterly. |
“Mt. Boppy”: When picking fowls for
breeding, go for good size. Light-breed
pullets at 10 months should weigh at
least 41b. and hens 11b. more, cockerels
51b., cocks 11b. heavier. In heavies a
minimum of 51b. for pullets and 71b. for
cockerels, hens and cocks 11b. heavier.
Handle every bird for deformities or
defects.


® in Ik
■ -
1
/
r.
ym&s&m'
Since the fateful day when Australia “threw her hat
into the ring”, the resources of this fertile land have been forgfed
into one mighty .machine of war. The texture of national life
has been re - woven into a grimmer pattern designed for war.
In this, as in all great undertakings, the motive power that
drives Australia’s war effort is money your money and ours.
A million and a half pounds a day must be found and we must
find it. As a free man, fighting with all you have in the cause
of national liberty and pride, buy National Savings Bonds and
War Savings Certificates, and buy them to-day !
EYE LOTION
For Infbmed Eyes and Eyelids ... Sold Everywhere
H. Rose & Co., Pty.. Ltd.. King Street. Sydney.
D
4
This advertisement is inserted by the
proprietors of Top Dog Men's Wear
Breks Trousers
Sovereign Hats
9m.
10 for 1/1
20 for 2/2
they never
vary
1
Save - or Slave. Put
all you've got into £lO
National Savings Bonds.
Carreras Ltd.—ls 4 Years’ Reputation for Quality
5065 a
UNCABLED ADDITIONS
Helping Japan.
(From an editorial in the aumoritative “United
States News.")
If we [the United States] drift along
with our present niggardly contribution
of ships and ’planes to the war in the
Pacific Japan can hold the scales even
for a long time, because she is on the de-
fensive and already controls the best air
and naval bases. How long shall we help
Japan?
It is true our submarines in the Pacific
are doing a more devastating job per sub-
marine than the Nazi submarines ever did
in the Atlantic in the heyday of their
operations. But Japan doesn’t have to
worry much about new ships. All she
has to do some day is to grab the Liberty
ships which we are building and are now
sending across the Pacific Ocean in the
trade with Russia.
There are many eloquent spokesmen
for Russia in the United States, but none
seems to ask pertinent questions about
Russia’s policy toward us in the Far
East. Do the American people realise
that many hundreds of thousands of tons
of shipping are moving to Siberian ports
regularly from our own Pacific coast in
vessels built in our yards and with our
taxpayers’ money, and that these ships
are subject to seizure at any time the
Japanese want to gather in a rich haul?
We have no guarantees that the Rus-
sian fleet in the Far East will protect
those ships against Japanese seizure. Not
long ago the Japanese protested to Rus-
sia against the use of these ships. So
we transferred them to Russia, and her
crews now man them, but some techni-
cality can easily be found by the
Japanese to permit Japanese seizure.
Then it might take months of diplomatic
exchanges for Moscow and Tokyo to
attempt to straighten it out, while Japan,
in the meantime, acquires enough ton-
nage to replace her losses.
Russia is adopting a standoffish policy
toward us in the Far East. She is not
helping us. Even assuming that some
day it may be to Japan’s interest to
attack Russia, wouldn’t it be sensible for
the Russians to let us know in advance
how we can be of immediate help from
Alaska? Wouldn’t it be desirable for our
side to know something of the landing
fields in Russia so that, America’s air
forces wouldn’t lose a moment’s time in
grabbing positions which later on it
might be costly for our Marines and our
Navy to attempt to capture?
But Stalin is adamant. Not a scintilla
of information has been given to us. For
ail we know Japan and Russia intend to
stay permanently at peace.
Plans for Italy.
[Condensed from an American “Mercury”
article by Kingsbury Smith, whose interpreta-
tions of official American policy have been con-
sistently sound.]
In the belief that the Italians are a
peace-loving people, the American plan
for the post-war treatment of that
country calls for a shorter and consider-
ably less strict control than that which
will be applied to Germany.
The American Government wants to
see the new leadership of Italy emerge
from within the country. It is not dis-
posed to impose upon the Italian people
some political movement that has
flowered in exile. It’s believed the
Italian people will prefer to support
leaders who have been through the ox deal
at home with them, and who have had
the courage to rise up within the country
and help lead them out of slavery. Such
leaders, it is believed, will be far more
representative of the Italian people than
some of the exiles who are scheming for
political power and hope to achieve it
with the aid of Allied bayonets.
Nor is the American Government dis-
posed to help liberate Italy in order to
make it safe for political exiles to return
and stage a bloody revolution under the
protection of the Allied armies of occu-
pation. The lives of American and
British boys are not being sacrificed to
make Europe safe for anarchy.
In regard to Italy’s territorial future,
assurances haye been given that there will
be no dismemberment of the United
Kingdom which Italy became in 1861.
These assurances will be kept.
Some slight rectification of the Yugo-
slavian border around Trieste may be
necessary. The Dodecanese Islands must
go back to Greece. Ethiopia naturally
will not be given back to Italy.
Italy has a population problem, and it
is felt the Italians should have an outlet
in Africa, but the American idea for
future colonial development is based on
the principle of United Nations trustee-
ship rather than imperialism. Trusteeship
would provide equality of opportunity lor
all suitable settlers under a system that


/
-
etv
is
£act^ re
Co*
to^ u
cot
iUe
03
l\ve
ctj**?
i\v cr
at*
Vot ce
at*
M*
less
tfa*T
•sav}
Vv**'* 1
Met c
The FISK RADIOIA
AUSTRALIA’S FINEST BROADCAST RECEIVER
When Victory is ours, the Fisk
Radioia, will agiaiu be available
throughout Australia. . . Until
then, your local Radioia Dis-
tributor will gladly service your
present Radioia.
AMAIGAMATED WIRELESS (A'sio) ltd.
Australia’s National Wireless Organisation
BUY £lO NATIONAL SAVINGS BONDS & WAR SAVINGS CERTIFICATES
Who Is Your Trustee?
Does he possess the knowledge and experience which the acceptance of that office
demands?
Permanent Trustee Co.
OF N.S.W., LTD.
Incorporated 1888 to act as Executors and Trustees.
This Company offers unexcelled trust service, combining security and experience
with efficient administration.
Write for explanatory Booklet, sent free, on request,
Directors; .
F, N. YARWOOD (Chairman) SIR THOMAS BUCKLAND CTCIL H. DOALE
A. E. BOND F. W. HIXSON JOHN EWING
E V. T. WHITTLE, Manager. N. L. SHAW, Assistant Manager.
23-25 O’CONNELL STREET, SYDNEY.
HYGEIA Dissolvenator
THIS SELF-CONTAINED SANITARY SYSTEM
PROVIDES THE SAFETY AND COMFORT OF A
SEPTIC TANK WITHOUT ANY WATER SUPPLY.
NO SMELL, NO FLIES, NO GERMS.
Approved by the Board of HealtK.
No emptying or other unpleasant
jobs. All matter is turned into a
sterile solution which automatically
runs off. Over 2200 in use.
Health Comfort Economy.
Write for Illustrated Pamphlet.
£l7/17/6 f.o.r. Sydney, including 12£% Sales Tax, plus
25/- war surcharge. Crating, if necessary, 10/9 extra.
HYGEIA SANITARY CO. PTY., LTD.,
26 BRIDGE ST., SYDNEY. 81052. OR LEADING STORES.
fd
Fully guaranteed
as to longevity,
efficiency and
mechanism..
It is not just a
modified closet
pan.
It displaces pans
and saves sanitary
The sterile solu-
tion soaks away
in the under-
ground sump.
Can be used where
septic tanks are
not practicable.
ANY HANDY-
MAN CAN IN-
STAL IT.
also assured fair treatment to the native
inhabitants.
In the economic field Italy will be
offered one of the brightest prospects of
a better future. The American post-
war plan calls for financial, technical and
other assistance to an Italy which is pre-
pared to co-operate with the United
Nations in maintaining peace and estab-
lishing a sound international economic
system. But the Italian State will be ex-
pected to readjust its economic life.
It must agree to regulate its produc-
tion apd export in accordance with the
decisions of a supreme United Nations
economic planning council. It must, for
example, abandon the policy of trying to
make itself self-sufficient in the produc-
tion of wheat. Mussolini’s effort to
achieve this objective was designed
chiefly to strengthen Italy’s war potential.
It is impractical for the Italians to try to
produce all the wheat they need. They
will be asked to concentrate on products
for which their internal economy is best
suited, such as specialised manufactured
articles, including silk, rayon and cotton
goods.
In the heavier industries they will be
requested to devote their attention to
luxury liners, cars and certain highly
specialised types of motors. In the agri-
cultural line olive oil, wine and dairy
products will be recommended to them
as practical fields of endeavor. The
American planners also believe there is
a place in world shipping for an Italian
merchant marine, particularly in the
Mediterranean, on the South American
and, to a more limited extent, the North
American run. Tourist traffic also is
considered an important item in Italian
economy which can be developed.
Raw materials, such as oil, coal, cot-
ton, rubber, iron and tin, will be made
available to Italy from a United Nations
pool—not necessarily according to her
ability to pay but according to the
reasonable needs of her peaceful
economy. This is one of the most far-
reaching and revolutionary ideas that the
American planners have in mind for
helping the smaller nations of the world.
It is designed to fulfil the Atlantic
Charter pledge that all nations shall enjoy
equal access to raw materials.
The raw material producing countries
of the United Nations will contribute a
certain percentage of their surplus stocks
to the pool. Italy will be expected to pay
what she can for the required raw
materiajs, but if she needs more than she
can pay for the materials will be made
available to her from the pool. The cost
to the contributing United Nations will
be regarded both as an insurance pay-
ment on world peace and as a capital
investment in an enterprise designed to
develop world-wide economic prosperity.
On these terms, and with this promise
of a more peaceful and happier future,
the American planners are willing to wel-
come a free and friendly Italy back into
the brotherhood of civilisation.
Giraud and De Gaulle.
(Condensed from a "United States News”
article .)
At a time when many a Frenchman
coupled Britain with the fall of France,
General de Gaulle was a living exponent
of French faith in Britain. He urged the
French to rally there. As time passed
he became the British link with the
French underground.
The British supplied him with a radio
outlet, furnished him with funds to main-
tain the Free French movement (later
known as the Fighting French). Publicity
played upon him. His popularity among
the French grew. His followers linked
his name with that of Joan of Arc. Their
adherence approached religious fervor.
The General had not been vaccinated
against such a contagion. He began to
think of himself in the third person, to
himself became “Le Generale de Gaulle.”
'To the British he became little less
compromising than he was to Vichy
Frenchmen. After Syria had been taken
over some British said it was as hard to
get concessions from him as it would
have been from the Vichyites. The
British got the idea that his personal
political ambitions were growing.
The Joan of Arc point of view did not
go over very well with them. They had
fought the real Maid of Orleans. And
General de Gaulle, just across the
Channel from German-occupied France,
was adopting the same tone toward them
that M. Clemenceau, backed by a mighty
French empire, might have used in 1918.
One explanation is: Frenchmen who
blamed the British for their difficulties
suspected that he was a tool of the
British. He had to be tough to down this
suspicion. , But the stubbornness of
General de Gaulle, alienating many of
his countrymen, set both the U.S.A. and
Britain in search of a method of unifying
all French.
The strength of General Giraud in the
present situation lies in the fact that
Americans and British are convinced
that he is, single-mindedly, a soldier.
When he goes in to dinner he does not
walk. He marches. For relaxation he
reads military history. He dislikes politics
and prefers to handle problems in the
peremptory fashion of a soldier.
It took a vast amount of persuasion
and argument to gain General de Gaulle’s
co-operation in the creation of the Com-
mittee of National Liberation, General
Giraud yielded six or seven points in dis-
pute. The one point he insisted upon
was command of the army and a seat on
the Committee, Even then General de
Gaulle did not yield until Prime Minister
Churchill, in a table-pounding session
with him, threatened to take away British
funds and radio facilities if he did not.
The breach between General de Gaulle
and Allied officials has widened since.
The British are trimming down their sup-
port. They closed the Fighting French
weekly publication in London. Even a
hint that the General might be arrested
has been heard.
Individuals do not matter so much to
either Government now so long as the
Committee can act.
The Committee will not get the un-
qualified endorsement of the U.S.A. as
an agency that speaks with the voice of
France, capable of taking over the im-
pounded French resources. Only an
agency chosen by the French people in a
free election can get that. But the U.S.
Government will work with it as an
emergency agency until such an election
can be held.
What the British and American
Governments are looking for is an agency
that can bind all Frenchmen together into
a common cause against the Axis. Neither
Government wants to tie itself to the
political fortunes of any one Frenchman.
Both would like to bury partisanship until
the war is won. They are elevating
General Giraud because they are con-
vinced his only aim is to fight at the head
of a French army and that he has no
political ambitions. General de Gaulle
is slipping, not necessarily because
British and Americans are convinced he
does have political aspirations, but be-
cause he is so unbending and uncom-
promising as to be unable to bring all
Frenchmen around him. He is splittihg
the French into factions so hotly divided
as to cause talk of civil war.
The Committee represents a deep
middle ground of French feeling. It
speaks for elements as far apart as the
Vichyite and the French Communist.
Patriotism holds it together in the face
of the wrangling that goes on around it.
Experienced French observers say that it
excels in character and ability any French
Cabinet in a generation.
Dragnet Digest.
(Condensed from various acknowledged sources .)
There are signs of a slowdown in U.S. war
production. This is reflected in a failure to
meet production schedules. It is showing up
in aircraft engines, in some kinds of ordnance,
in a wide variety of war goods. In part, the
trouble traces to sudden optimism over the
war outlook. An immediate letdown followed
Mussolini’s fall. Production in some plants
dropped 10 to 20 per cent, on the week-end
of the Sicilian invasion. There is developing
what appears to be an idea that the war can
be won on a part-time basis. The fact, as
Army and Navy officers see it, is that the
urgency of production is more imperative, not
less imperative, as a result of events in the
Mediterranean. The reason is simply that the
war’s timetable is speeded up by what has hap-
pened. The offensives that were planned for
three to six months from now suddenly loom
as immediate possibilities. War materials that
were to be moved next November or December
need to be moved now. ’Planes, guns, tanks
that were piled up in Africa/must move ahead,
and back of them must be new supplies for
other jobs.— ‘‘United States News."
* * * *
The Luftwaffe faces a - gloomy future. As
operations expand,, more and more German
’planes will be brought to battle, and the air
fighting of the last year has proved the enemy
is not a match, qualitatively or quantitatively,
for the R.A.F. and the U.S.A.A.F. Losses are
sure to be heavy. They will have an inevitable
effect on the German Army. As one British
soldier pointed out after the Tunisian capitu-
lation of the Axis: “German soldiers won’t
fight without air cover; they have always had
it in the past, and when it is denied them their
morale weakens and their tactical training is
useless.” — N.Y. “Times" London correspon-
dent.
* * * *
Japan’s ’plane-loss ratio is from five to 25
against one for U.S. Her warships are failing
to show much in combat with fJ.S. ships.
Japan’s merchant fleet gradually is being
whittled down. Her industry is unable to re-
place present ship and aircraft losses. So
Japan’s days are numbered. It is only a ques-
tion of taking bases from which to hit Japan
proper by air. On that point, don't be too im-
pressed by the idea that it is necessary to fight
island by island from the South Pacific. Next
year the combined U.S.-British navies will be
about seven times Japan’s in size.— “ United
States News.”
* * * *
What should the United States get out of
the war? We should get, we believe, enough
strategically located islands to ensure our-
selves with bombers against any more Pearl
Harbors, and to guarantee the defence of this
country. These would include islands in the
Caribbean, the Galapagos Islands off Ecuador,
and islands in the western Pacific which we
could use as daggers to keep Japan perma-
nently nil as a threat to us. Fully as important
as all this, we should have a joint General
Staff with Canada, a joint defence plan, and
air, land and naval forces ready at all times
to jump into action. On the human race’s past
performance, this is not going to be the last
war. The above-sketched precautions, expen-
sive though they will be, look to us like the
only sound insurance we can take out against
the disasters we missed this time by dumb luck.
— N.Y. “Daily News.”
* * * ♦
New Zealand is now drafting men for Air
Force ground crews to meet the greatly
increased demands imposed by the determina-
tion to wage the Pacific air war to the limit.
Selection committees are examining suitable
army draftees for Air Force service. ’Plane
crews will continue to be enlisted. Until
recently the Air Force relied on enlistment
for all its needs, but the country’s changed
role in the ‘ Pacific war theatre demands the
strengthening of the ground staff in a short
time.— N.Y. “Times” New Zealand correspon-
dent.
* * *
As many as 10,000 small craft drawn from all
parts of the country have been acquired by the
British Ministry of War Transport for various
war purposes. The delivery of many of the
small craft to new stations oversea has been
achieved by fine feats of seamanship. Port
tugs, ferries, and even a floating crane, all de-
signed for service in coastal waters at home,
have made voyages of 12,000 miles round the
Cape to the Middle East. In peace-time it
would have been considered an adventure to
send such craft by the short route through the
Mediterranean, hugging the coast all the way.
In war-time the danger is immeasurably in-
creased by the consideration that in order to
avoid prowling enemy bombers these tiny vessels
have had to cross 2000 miles of the open
Atlantic before proceeding down the west coast
of Africa. That no casualties have been suf-
fered by them during the hazardous passages
is a remarkable tribute to the seamanship and
determination of the crews. — London “Times.”


STORAGE EQUIPMENT
<v
is at all Battle Stations
Aboard fighting ships where fireproof materials are vital
—filing cabinets, chartroom fixtures, clothing lockers are,
wherever possible, always metal. Deliveries of "Sfceelbilt”
Shelving and Storage Equipment are going to the Marine
Services in a steady flow, week after week. And not only
to ships. Mobile Trucks of the fighting forces are being
fitted with "Steelbilt” Spare Parts Bins and reinforced
Shelving.
Tool Rooms around Australia’s war industries are more
efficient to-day, because of "Steelbilt” equipment.
More "Steelbilt” equipment is coming off Wormald Bros,
production lines than ever before. We are developing
new design features . . . and you, Mr. Business Man,
will get the benefit of that when Peace comes again and
we can return to supplying all commercial and industrial
needs.
i
I
m
m
i
■
- h
><. i i
m
wm
"i
Mra Mi
l;.
mm
i
■i
P.
/
J
I
1%
'. •'.V. ■;:
V
&
f
•J
1.. -
■■l
111
■
■a
m « i
■:
v •# ■ ‘
1
r
I Hi
«i
m
mm
mm
;> v
Ira
a
;-'i
M .
I
IBSiS
:V®,v
V,v-
H
m
■
H
-t
, m I
•v
:.. 38
H
\
“■4
l ;• -/
B
;-■ . ::
:::■ H
"WATERLOO” DOOR TRACK AND HANGERS for doOfS Weighing
100 lbs. to 1,500 lbs. are now available through your hardware dealer.
BANGOR door hangers having been called up for the duration, will
not now be available.
STOJMGF £Qf//PMIWr
Manufactured by WORMALD BROS. PTY. LTD. (Incorporated in N.S.W.)
ALL STATES AND NEW ZEALAND


WHO WILL LOOK AFTER
FAMILY
It is unwise to appoint an individual as
Executor of your WLfi. He may become
overloaded with his own work, may die,
become ill or careless, leave the country or
even abuse his trust.
The Trustees Executors and Agency Com-
pany Limited, constituted under Act of
Parliament, and with over 65 years’ experi-
ence in the administration of thousands of
estates, offers you ample security, an impar-
tial viewpoint and complete
continuity of service. Charges
are fixed and moderate. Con-
sult your solicitor or write for
Free Booklet.
THE TRUSTEES EXECUTORS
AND AGENCY COMPANY LTD.
Incorporated in Victoria in 1878.
1 BLIGH ST., SYDNEY, and at 401 COLLINS ST.,
MELBOURNE.
Capital (paid and uncalled) and Reserves
£960,645.
BOARD OF DIRECTORS:
Sir Alexander Stewart (Chairman); D. Stuart Murray;
Sir Claude Reading, K.C.M.G.; Sir Lennon Raws, C.8.E.;
G. S. Colman, C.8.E.; Sir Alan Newton.
NEW SOUTH WALES DIRECTORS:
Sir Claude Reading, K.C.M.G. (Chairman); W. D, Stewart;
R. T. Hilder.
N.S.W. Manager: J. W. Russell French.
Gen. Manager: W. Sydney Jones. Manager; K. M. Hughes,
The "Curvilinear” Concentrating Table
SEND FOR
BULLETIN
AND
PRICE.
f
- SIMPLE
AND
RELIABLE.
We are the patentees and manufacturers of this table. Call for a demonstration.
Can also quote for all classes of mining machinery, including stamp batteries,
amalgamating tables, magnetic ore separators, classifiers, agitators, everlasting
valves, water- and oil-filters, Rendrock and all other explosives and accessories.
Electric motors and Ellison switch gear.
GUTHRIDGE PTY. LIMITED,
Sole Patentees and Manufacturers,
10-12 PARRAMATTA RD., CAMPERDOWN, SYDNEY, N.S.W.
The WILD CAT COLUMN
Metropolitan Life
Ordinary Department.
Added to
Dec., Income. Claims. Expenses.* Funds. Funds.f
£ £ £ £ £
1935.. 124,100 49,359 25,162 49,579 764,497
Reserves drawn upon, £530 .. 763,967
1936.. 131,213 50,138 25,210 55,865 819,832
Profit sale assets, £3589 . . 823,421
1937.. 140,468 48,753 24,729 66,986 890,407
Reserves drawn upon, £262 . . 890,145
1938.. 149,312 51,214 22,599 75,499 965,644
1939.. 160,077 62,299 21,540 76,238 1,041,882
1940. .152,653 73,520 22,533 1 55 600 i 097,482
To tax reserve, £lOOO J ’ ’
1941.. 155,876 79,197 22,442 54,237 1,151,(19
1942.. 156,221 84,427 22,777 49,017 1,200,736
* Includes divs. to shareholders; 1934-85, £5OOO ;
1936 £5500; 1937, £5000; 1938-39, £2708 ;
1940-41, £2917; 1942, £2OOO.
t Apart from capital and tax reserve.
Industrial Department.
Added to
Dec., Income. Claims. Expenses.* Funds. Funds.!
£ £ £ £ £
1935.. 185,054 55,484 80,974 48,596 690,779
Reserves drawn upon, £470 .. 690,309
1936.. 197,045 57,571 83,841 55,633 745,942
Profit sale assets, £3201 .. .. 749,143
1937.. 212,338 60,719 87,834 63,785 812,928
Reserves drawn upon, £238 . . 812,690
1938.. 227,462 65,096 80,381 75,985 888,675
1939.. 238,067 76.590 84,343 77,134 965,809
1940.. 253,750 88,130 86,631 1 7fi 489 1 042,298
To tax reserve, £2500 i ) ' ’ ’
1941.. 262,563 94,016 86,161 82,386 1,124,684
1942.. 277,821 98,883 87,953 90,985 1,215,669-
* Includes divs. to shareholders: 1926-35, £7500 ;
1936, £7000; 1937-38, £7500 ; 1939-41, £5000;
1942, £3OOO.
f Apart from capital and tax reserve.
Surpluses available for bonuses have
been influenced by war mortality and the
low interest rate at which new invest-
ments must be effected, while taxation
has further depleted the earning power of
funds. However, along with other con-
servative managements, the Metropolitan
promptly put the pruning knife into both
bonuses to policy-holders and divs. to
shareholders (entitled to 90 p.c. of pro-
fits), and its affairs have never exhibited
greater strength. At the last triennial
valuation in 1940 the management “used”
£45,200 to lower the basis of interest-
expectation to a stringent 2\ p.c. in the
O.D. and to 3 p.c. in the I D., and a
further recommendation by actuary
Cooksey that portion of any surplus con-
tingency provisions be similarly applied
would have all the “Wild Cat’s” support,
with cheap money an avowed post-war
reconstruction objective.
Life assurance in a sound office has
greater-than-usual attractions in the pres-
ent period of restricted investment oppor-
tunities, while tax rebates on premiums
up to £lOO represent an appreciable cut
in the terms on which even moderate-
wage and -salary earners can obtain
cover. Moreover, new policy-holders
stand to benefit from past accumulations
of funds showing more remunerative
rates of interest than new-premium in-
vestments now earn. Still, despite recent
growth in staff-superannuation schemes,
0. business-writing hasn’t been main-
tained because of the depletion of field
staffs. The Metropolitan’s I.D. figures,
on the other hand, show marked stability,
while (deducting taxes and divs.) the cost
of running this department has fallen
from 40 p.c. to 35.8 p.c. of net premium
collections since the outbreak of war.
Economy in the conduct of O.D. affairs
is also evident, on the same basis the
expense rate here falling from 16.9 p.c.
to 16.2 p.c. last year. Work in this
respect has had a distinctly healthy look
about it for over a decade now.
Altogether, new business put on the
books in 1942 (£676,829) shrank £72,058,
but the average per Ordinary policy was
maintained and increased 10 p.c. in the
1. In the two sections combined
revenue (£338,376, up £12,635, from
premiums and £95,666, up £2968, from
interest, etc.) reached £434,042. The
higher level of claims was primarily on
account of maturities.- Australian life
offices so far have been fortunate in their
war experience ; but not all casualties are
yet known, while the ravages of wounds
and tropical campaigning can be ex-
pected to exhibit delayed-action effects.
After meeting management outgoings,
etc., assurance funds benefited by
£140,002, or £3379 more than in 1941.
Their total is now £2,322,112, in support
of which are £100,290 of other reserves
and £50,000 of share capital.
Siphoning of surplus funds into war
loan has occasioned little change in the
investment set-up, Consols always enjoy-
ing a No. 1 priority;
1941. p.c. 1942. p.c.
Freeholds, etc. ..£268,649 11.4 £268,541 10.8
Govt, securities . . 1,531,846 65.1 1,601,318 67.6
Shares other cos. . . 37,663 1.6 52,663 2.1
Mortgages . • . . 302,891 12.9 280,/63 11...
Loans on policies . . 145,439 6.2 135,546 5.4
Book debts . . . . 54,834 2.3 53,841 2.2
Cash . . . . 12,212 0.5 17,796 0.7
On the mean assurance funds the net
earning power of the million port-
folio fell from 4.37 p.c. to 4.07 p.c. last
term, a prime factor being a 160 p.c. lift
in taxes. Progressive reduction can be
expected while hostilities last, but all
offices are in the same boat.
MUlaquin Sugar Co. (Q.)
To Re-
June, Loss. Dividends. Reserves, serves.
£ £ £ £
1933.. >6,627 6 p.c. 30,000 231,582
Profit.
1934.. 63.1Q8 7 „ „ 35,000 28,168 259,750
1935.. 65,123 8 ~ „ 40,000 25,123 284,873
1936.. 72.364 9 „ „ 45,000 27,364 312,237
1937.. 57,569 9 „ ~ 45,000 12,569 324,806
1938.. 59,437 11 ~ ~ 55,000 4,437 329,243
1939.. 62,640 11 ~ ~ 55,000 7,640 336,883
1940.. 65,420 11 ~ „ 55,000 10,420 847,303
1941.. 62,168 11 ~ „ 55,000 7,168 354,4tl
1942.. 63,162 11 ~ 55,000 8,162 362,633
1943.. 60,144 11 ~ „ 55,000 5,144 367,777
Although the industry is beset with
difficulties, the co. is well entrenched,
financially and otherwise. Milling, both
on its own and growers’ account, is the
backbone of earnings, which are stiffened
by returns from a fine wad of invest-
ments (£481,917) outside the business and
by moderate pickings from refining the
small portion of the crop not handled
by C.S.R. The investments consist of
Government securities (in at £416,572, or
£B9B less than face value), shares in the
Bundaberg Distillery (valued in the books
at £64,951, equal to approximately
60 p.c. face value, and worth a lot more
than par) and a handful of scrip in other
cos. (£394).'
Last season drought, shortage of ferti-
liser and transport and man-power diffi-
culties reduced Australia’s output of
raws by 94,000 tons, leaving the figure at
627,000 tons. The highest figure reached
was 938,000 tons in 1939, when over half
the output was exported at a very low
figure. Only about one-third is exported
now, and that at a very much higher
price than the pre-war open-market
figure—thanks to the contract with the
British Government. Still, owing to
shrinkage in output, gross return to the
industry has contracted, in round figures,
by a million pounds annually since 1939.
Net returns have been further affected
by the all-round rise in costs, including
taxation and decline in the eco-
nomic efficiency of labor, etc. Owing to
shortage of man-power few mills suc-
ceeded in attaining 75 p.c. of their normal
crushing last season. The result of
temporary release of a number of militia
trainees of the 18-19 age group from
southern centres has been disappointing.
Many proved unsuitable for cane-cutting
and have been either returned to their
unit or transferred to mill work, while
two or three of those remaining are re-
quired to produce on the average as much
as one experienced and mature cane-
cutter.
So, although the average price per ton
of raws last season reached £l9 Is., the
best since 1932, when £l9 6s. Id. was
realised, the net return to millers and
growers receded. After setting aside
£18,285 (down £796) for depreciation and
making an unspecified allowance for
taxation, this Millaquin co. figured net
earnings £3OlB short of the previous
year’s at £60,144, equal to a shade over
12 p.c. on the half million of share capi-
tal as against 12.6, 12.4 and 13 p.c. for
the preceding terms. A 4 p.c, bonus—
paid from returns from investments —
was again added to the 7 p.c. div., mak-
ing 11 p.c. for the year.
The already solid financial structure
was further strengthened:
1939'. 1941. 1942, 1943.
Paid capital.. £500,000 £500,000 £500.000 £500,000
Creditors* .. 104,017 156,515 102,892 177.870
Freeholds, re-
finery, etc. 329,300 338.786 339,466 326,963
Plantation, etc. 58,181 35,980 36,515 35,541
Railways, etc. 32,542 35,514 35,776 34,920
Stocks . . 89,143 96,872 123,385 125,018
Book debts . . 10,085 19,016 47.874 44,007
Investments . , 396,562 454,940 461.917 481,917
Cash . . . . 63,127 67,372 18,092 34,787
* Including taxation.
During the year £20,000 was added to
the holding of Government securities
(£416,572), £16,695 to cash and £14,984
to the amount coming to trade creditors,
which includes something for the tax-
gatherer when he calls. The year’s im-
provement in the more or Jess' liquid
surplus (£507,853) was £19,477.
As for the current season, light rains
and frosts have affected growing crops,
and the problems of shortage of field
labor, fertiliser and rolling-stock remain.
A central committee has been established
to advise man-power officials, and local
committees in each mill district will
arrange for harvesting. Growers have
asked for a special Federal subsidy of
about £2,000,000 to help cover growth
in war costs ; a royal commission, set up
by the Queensland Government, has
recommended that all mills in the State
be operated under Government control
at reduced crushing rates, and Britain has
agreed to take the export surplus at an
increased price of 14s. 3d. per cwt. c.i.f.
Robur Tea Co., Ltd. (Melbourne)
t Dividends -^Towards
Net Pref. Re-
Mar., Profit. 3=| p.c. Old. serves. Deficit.!
£ ' £ £,£,£.
1933.. 4,100 4688 Nil 19,977
Reserves disappear, £15,592 .. 35,569
1934.. 2,405 4688 Nil 37,852
Depredation reserve disappears, £28,280.. 66,132
1935.. 5,606 4688 Nil 018 65,214
74 p.c.
1936.. 10.640 9375 Nil 1265 63,949
1937.. 11,336 9375 Nil 1961 61,988
Loss.
1938.. 1T,360 Nil Nil 79,348
Robur Tea and Subsidiary.
From doubtful debts, £3100.. .. 84,399
Loss.
1939.. 6,493 Nil Nil 90,892
From doubtful debts, £715 . . . . 90,177
Profit. 7J p.c. ,
1940.. 11.119.9,375 Nil 1744 88,433
15 p.c.
1941. .20,000 18,750 Nil 1250 87,183
10 p.c.
1942. 12,500 Nil 88,190
174 p.c.t
1943. .21,988 21,875 Nil 113 88,077
ffioodwill ( £75,000) not treated as an asset.
tLess deduction of £2300, proportionate share of
war-time (company), tax.
In continuation of the pooling scheme
designed to provide equitable world dis-
tribution and check the price specula-
tion that followed the loss of Javanese
supplies, the British Ministry of Food
has acquired the whole of the 1943 tea
crop of India, Ceylon and East Africa,
representing 700 million pounds, on be-
half of the United Nations. Australia’s
allocation, it is stated in London, will be
unchanged, so the Commonwealth’s 20z.-
a-week‘tea ration appears secure. Local
importing is in the hands of the Tea Con-
trol Board, which meets service demands
direct; civilian distribution is handled
through the normal competitive trade
channels, subject to rigid Government
control of grades (limited to two), prices
and profit margins. Tea was one of the
basic commodities singled out for heavy
subsidisation under the new cost-of-living
stabilisation plan, retail prices for first
grade in capital cities being slashed from
3s. sd. to 2s. 3d. a pound overnight. Re-
tailers were to be reimbursed by whole-
salers for resultant losses on existing
stocks, and wholesalers in turn by the
Tea Board.
Despite rationing and enlistments,
civilian tea consumption—“probably
almost 100 p.c. of the pre-vtor figure’’
in metropolitan areas, according to Tea
Controller Bennett —appears to have been
well maintained. Moreover, war-time
marketing arrangements have eliminated
much of the vulnerability of former
importers’ earnings to overseas price


INVENTORS.—Have you an idea worth patenting?
Griffith, Hassel and Griffith, Patent Attorneys,
Asbestos House, Cr. York and Barrack Streets, Sydney,
obtain Commonwealth and foreign patents.— Advt.
♦ * * *
DAVIES & COLLISON, Patent Attorneys, Collins
House, 360 Collins Street, Melbourne, C.l. Austra-
lian and overseas Patents anfi Trade Marks.— Advt,
Queensland
Insurance Co.
Ltd.
Head Office:
Pitt & Bridge Streets,
Sydney.
The Largest
Australian Company
Transacting
Fire, Marine, Accident, House-
holders’ Comprehensive, Workers’
Compensation, Boiler Explosion,
Machinery Breakdown, Aviation,
etc.
BRANDMJER'rS
- ..cm
fk
:
FPENS
Every point
guaranteed
do not experiment with imitations.
a BKAKDAOSB * CO, LML, BIKMISOHAM. ENO
Evidence of
INTEGRITY and SECURITY
Essential when appointing your Trustee,
you appoint an Executor and Trustee under your Will you should
_ satisfy yourself as to his integrity and that he has a background of ex-
perience in handling Estates. You will be w r ise to assure yourself that your
Estate will be secure in his hands.
When you appoint Perpetual Trustee Company Limited you can rest assured
on both points. In the management of Estates it brings to bear the Judgment
gained by 60 years’ experience. Unlike most individuals, it has large capital
and reserve funds with consequent financial stability and responsibility.
Send for a copy of “Your Executor and Trustee,” which explains the Company’s
service.
PERPETUAL TRUSTEE COMPANY, LIMITED
DIRECTORS: T. H. Kelly (Chairman); Hon. T. A. J. Playfair, M.L.C.; E. E. Knox;
H. Norman Pope; Allen C. Lewis; W. Deuchar Gordon.
H. V. Douglass, Managing Director. P. Cureton, Manager.
Executor and Trustee, Agent under Power of Attorney for Absentees and others.
Administrator, etc.
Trust and Agency Funds under Administration exceed £60,000,000.
33-39 HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY. '
Southern and Riverlna District Representative: C. E. Cowdery, Gurwood Street, Wagga Wagga.
Western District Representative: H. A, Shaw, 140 Lord’s Place. Orange.
m/tK mNSMWW
PROBLEM
Illustrating
the LUDOWICI
PIVOT DRIVE
L UD 0 Wl C I S
have the answe'u
BEHIND the fine quality and the assurance of maximum efficiency in
Ludowici Power Transmission Equipment, stand Ludowici Technicians
—men whose knowledge and experience of every power transmission re-
quirement enable them to give a ready answer to your particular problem.
Our reputation has been built on our willingness to give an unbiassed
opinion and to recommend and supply the most suitable equipment for
each power transmission application.
You have only to ask for our advice to have it freely given.
J. C. LUDOWICI & SON LTD.
117 YORK STREET, SYDNEY
COUPLINGS
SHAF T I N G
GEARS & HANGERS
% * A
LUDOWICIS
PfiUWFP
TRANSMISSION
EQUIPMENT
CAPSTAN
The Empire's
Favourite Cigarette
It’s your fight — your money is needed
now. Save for War Savings Certificates
and £lO National Savings Bonds,
,854 D-11.41
fluctuations, while Robur’s management
appears to have achieved no little suc-
cess in adjusting outgo to the altered
trading conditions. The big boost to
latest earnings came from the N.S.W.
end, where, after going £19,308 net to
the bad in the preceding five years, the
subsidiary Oriental Tea Co. turned the
1942 loss of £6072 into a tax-free profit
of £7047. After chipping off £4037 for
depreciation, the combined net result of
parent and pup almost doubled at £21,988
—sufficient to meet a year’s pref. div.
and show 10.1 p;c. on the ord. share-
register. Actually, the 1\ p.c. prefs.,
which comprise half the capital and all
the public’s stake, had their arrears re-
duced to 10 months by a payment of
p.c., worth 15.7 p.c. after the co. had re-
couped to a suspense account the pro-
portion of war-time (company) tax which
it is entitled to make pref.-holders bear.
Ord.-holders again remained on the outer,
a position they have occupied in every
year but one since the Melbourne busi-
ness of James Service and Co. was taken
over in 1928.
The patchy results of the past reflect
the keenness of local competition, the
continued high landed cost of tea (aggra-
vated by international production con-
trol after 1933) and the fact that nearly
a third of the capital is represented by
intangibles, mostly goodwill (£75,000),
not treated as an asset in these calcula-
tions. Finances, however, look well
enough:—
1935. 1938. 1942. 1943.
Paid capital.. £250,000 £250,000 £250,000 £250,000
Liabilities . . 94,438 107,544 43,810 155,846
Property and
plant .. 117,804 41,869 40,660 36,008
Investments..-,, 68,901 53,805
Stocks . . 65,844 70,808 102,696 251,155
Book debts . . 25,866 26,494 29,792 28,097
Cash . . . . 74,399 85,219 45,875 22,086
Last year’s healthy growth of £148,459
in stocks reflects the strengthening of our
trade and shipping links with India. It
necessitated the depletion of cash re-
sources by £23,789 and the addition of
£112,036 to the debt, but there is no-
thing disturbing in the movements, par-
ticularly as the subsidy scheme in effect
indemnifies the co. against the risk of any
sudden price deflation. Meantime, whole-
sale margins allowed by the Prices Com-
missioner will largely condition earnings.
After a half-century Maude and Yel-
low Girl, Glen Wills (Vic.), can still kick
her heels in a manner many of the
younger fry must envy, and there’s a lot
more life in the old mine yet. In the
year to June, 28 p.c. reduction in through-
put (10,690 tons, or only half battery
capacity) was entirely the result of the
man-power malady afflicting all gold-
mines. Because of the repercussion of
the same circumstance on development,
ore reserves at 72,280 tons are also lower
by the amount of the year’s extraction,
grade not stated. After depreciation
profits showed only small contraction at
£13,253, thanks to improvement from
7.4dwt. to B.9dwt. in recoveries and a
further saving of £2988 in development
(£2337, down £9218 in two years). The
latter must be increased at earliest oppor-
tunity, the board says ; meantime, share-
holders can take comfort in the fact that
13,300 tons of the ore reserves mentioned
lie broken in the stopes, while the en-
couraging thing from the long view is
the known persistence of the ore-carrier
down to No. 9 horizon. Cut in last year’s
divs. from 2s, 6d. to 2s. a share (£9000)
has been followed by a 6d. interim for
the current term considerably earlier
than the similar handout in 1942, and
both mill tonnages and values are keep-
ing up. Generally, stores are becoming
as much a problem to the industry as
labor.
* * * *
On the strength of good developments
in the bottom of the mine. Sons of
Gwalias are being bought at up-and-up
prices in London, the latest quote being
about 295. 6d. stg. Accounts for 1942
show a decline in earnings from
£stg. 134,111 in 1941 to £5tg.83,813, the
fall being attributed almost entirely to
labor call-up for national service. For
the first half of 1943 production was
further curtailed to 11,849 fine oz., com-
pared with 17,107 fine oz. for the first
half of 1942. Co. hopes to maintain the
yield at this level for the rest of the year.
Ore reserves of 6.o3dwt. per ton average
grade are estimated to be equal to five to
six years’ mill feed, and developments
are said to justify the expectation of sub-
stantial additions being made to these
reserves.
* * * *
Directors of Great Boulder Pty, an-
nounce that, the Court having granted
a stay of winding-up and the co. there-
fore now not being in liquidation, the
London registered and transfer offices
are at Westralia House, 66 Gresham-
street, E.C.2 —Claude de Bernales’s head-
quarters. Secretary is H. ■ Lawrence
Grout. The Court order staying the
winding-up proceedings (subject to a
formal affidavit that taxation liabilities
had been discharged) has already been
reported.
* * * *
Mount Charlotte (Kalgoorlie) Gold
Mines, Ltd., whose Mt. Charlotte group
at Kalgoorlie is under option to Wiluna
Gold Mines, Ltd., announces that it is
retaining goldmining claims owned in the
Salisbury and Gatooma districts, Southern
Rhodesia, but no expenditure is being
incurred on them. Co.’s latest yearly
accounts show a debit balance (develop-
ment, etc.) of £70,764 stg., an increase
of £4443 on the previous year’s figure.
* * * «■
Last year’s accounts of Kalgoorlie
Electric Tramways, Ltd,, show operating
receipts at £30,213 and a profit, includ-
ing £llOl from sale of investments, of
£2548. This, as in the past, has been
added to the sinking fund for redemption
of £lOO,OOO debenture stock. Co., a Lon-
don £250,000 concern which has never
paid a dividend, has been running rock-
ing, dusty and now somewhat dilapi-
dated trams around Kalgoorlie, Boulder
and the mines for nearly 40 yeaYs.


New Instalment Plan for Liberty Loan Investors
Makes it Possible for ALL to —
BACK THE ATTACK
(m
PLAN
ms
Not
Wm
PlfiN
N 0.2
V
fw NoZ
-< V / >*'
PLAN
N 0.4
It’s best, of course, to pay cash for your Bonds, for thus
money is made available at once for Australia’s needs—
but if you believe you can increase your savings in the
future, buy as many Bonds as your present funds «llow
and as many more by instalments as your expected savings
make possible.
This is the plan for those whose present savings are small
but who intend to "back the attack” by a real saving
effort in the next few months. Pay 10% deposit now and
the balance of your subscription on Ist February, 1944.
Perhaps it would suit you best to make more regular
instalments. Plan (3) allows you to pay 10% deposit
and three separate monthly instalments of 30% each on
Ist December, Ist January and Ist February.
Plan (4) provides for your bond purchase by five equal
payments. The deposit is 20% and the instalments four
of 20% of your subscription on Ist December, January,
February and March.
Here's a commonsense
plan which enables you
to buy your Liberty
Bonds by instalments
and to increase your
lending power much
beyond the scope of
your present savings.
Remember, when you
buy Liberty Bonds, you
do not give your
money, you lend it at
good interest, and its
repayment is guaran-
teed by the Common-
wealth of Australia.
Study the purchasing
plans on the left and
choose the one which
suits you besti
NATIONAL
SAVINGS
STAMP
VS
AtA ?
s
A'
S*»
e <v,
A>»'
a’f®
V>uM
o«
Ae
5
o\>
*o^
\\^ e
<\9 S
o=>
saV‘
»1
\a^ e
u\°
u^ u
&cc-
\o
Nn
tVS
v e a
\joo e
a^N
n\l'
\t^ eVV
u?
JL
&
Ot
M
SPECIAL CONVENIENT
FACILITIES AT YOUR
PICTURE SHOW . . .
Buy 5/- National Savings Stamps
at the booth in the foyer. Get a
Savings Booklet free! Each page
has room for 8 stamps—£2 worth.
The filled page or pages can then
be used for:—
(1) Payment in full on a bond.
(2) Payment of a deposit.
(3) Payment of an instalment.
Wear this badge proudly. If points
you out as a subscriber to the 4th
Liberty Loan—one who is backing
the attack.
TH
A
4L.2
IBERTY LOAN
Make your Subscription at any Bank, Savings Bank, Money Order Post Office, or Stockbroker.
Good interest is paid half-yearly. If you invest your money for 5 years the rate is 2i%, or for 16 years
3i%. Interest starts from the day of subscription. Pay cash or buy bonds on convenient instalments.
Wanted.
WANTED, Manufacturing and Marketing
rights of Patent Household Appliances, Agri-
cultural or other lines. Will finance if attrac-
tive. Must be genuine vendors. —FEDERAL
MACHINERY CO., LTD.. Arncliffe, N.S.W.
Legal Notice.
IN THE ESTATE of THOMAS WILLIAM
DALTON late of Rongotea in the Provincial
District of Wellington in New Zealand Farmer.
—PURSUANT to an Order made by a Judge
of the Supreme Court of New Zealand at
Palmerston North on the 15th day of July DA)
all persons claiming to be next-of-kin and en-
titled to share in the estate of the abovenarneu
deceased and in particular brothers and/or
sisters (or the children of such brothers and/or
sisters) of John Dalton formerly of Thomas-
town County Kilkenny Ireland but later or
Rongotea in the Dominion of New Zealand
Richard Dalton formerly of Thomastown afore-
said but later of Nelson in the Dominion ot
New Zealand Catherine Rodgers (formerly
Dalton) formerly of Thomastown aforesaid but
later of Blue Spur Westland in the Dominion
of New Zealand Ellen Murphy (formerly
Dalton) formerly of Thomastown aforesaid but
later of Kuraara Westland in the Dominion ot
New Zealand Margaret Murphy (formerly
Dalton) formerly of Thomastown aforesaid but
later of Piper’s Flat Westland in the Dominion
of New Zealand and Eliza Smith (formerly
Dalton) formerly of Thomastown aforesaid but
later of Melbourne Victoria Australia having
claims against the estate of the abovenamed de-
ceased person who died at Foxton m New
Zealand on the 26th day of January 1941 and
probate of whose will was granted by the
Supreme Court of New Zealand at Pa |®® rst °
North on the 19th day of February 1941 are
hereby required to send mf uh ruriSTIE
writing of their claims to HECI OR CHRIS lit.
Solicitor of 69 Ridgway Street Wanganui m
New Zealand aforesaid the sole Executor ot th
will of the said Thomas William Dalton de-
ceased within six (6) months from the date o
publication of this advertisement after which
the Executor will proceed to distribute the asse
of the deceased among the persons entitled
thereto having regard only to the claims, “
demands of which he shall tden have bad
notice. DATED at Wanganui this 15th day ot
July 1943.— CHRISTIE, CRAIGMYLE &
TIZARD, Solicitors for the Executoi, N\an
ganui, New Zealand.
Business, Rollery, etc.
The Budget <
Labor’s third Budget, presented last
week in Canberra, should rouse the civic
interest and concern of every Australian.
The Budget represents the central pattern
into which the mobilisation of our re-
sources for defence and essential civilian
requirements fits, and, furthermore, it lays
down the principle on which war and
social-service costs shall be met and
burdens distributed over the people.
At the present time we are subject to
almost totalitarian control in our daily
lives and our way of living. The inroads
of war’s cost are everywhere evident in
our standard of living and our cost of
existence, even though not fully apparent
in the money in the hands of the people. It
has been a feature of all three Labor
Budgets that they have failed to take an
adequate, balanced proportion of the
people’s war-time earnings away from
them in providing the money cost of
war, and that far too much use has been
made of Treasury-bill (bank-credit)
finance. A mirage of money is being
built up before the eyes of the people,
especially wage-earners. Savings-bank
deposits have risen £92 million in year.
Costs inflation has followed this
monetary inflation, and the increase in
costs has then added to the size of the
Budget, the Government at present being
the chief employer and consumer in the
Commonwealth. Not only have the costs
of manufacturing, servicing and transport
on Government account been inflated by
reason of rising costs that in turn relate
to previous budgeting, but the Govern-
ment has found it necessary to offset
rising costs on civilian account by sub-
sidies, the cost of this price ceiling in
respect of the current year being esti-
mated at £24 million, half of it being
entirely in respect of primary production
and the rest in connection with miscel-
laneous items, including potatoes and tea
(£4j million). Too much of this subsidy
is again being met by Treasury bills,
which is a prime source of inflation in
itself.
Owing to the extreme demands of the
war-time occasion, plus, undoubtedly, the
effects of an administration ever reluc-
tant to take a realistic financial view of
things, the national bill for war and other
services this year is estimated at £715
million, an increase of £45 million over
1942-43. That is greatly in excess of
half of what is calculated to be the
national income. The estimated cost of
war, which is largely waste except so far
as the upkeep of soldiers is concerned,
is put at £570 million. Of that, £7O mil-
lion will be spent abroad, but we shall
probably export sufficient other produc-
tion to pay for it, so that almost the en-
tire cost of the £570 million will be borne
by the Australian economy this year.
Here is a summary of the Budget
figures: -
Expenditure.
Actual, Actual, Budget,
1941-42. 1942-43. 1943-44.
War — £mil. £mil. £mil.
Australia .. 273.0 482.8 500.0
Overseas .. 47.0 79.0 70.0
320.0 561.8 570.0
Civil .. .. 101.0 108.0 145.0
Total .. .. 421.0 669.8 715.0
Revenue and Loans.
Cash in hand .. 2.0
Taxation .. 186.0 239.0 281.5
Business income 24.0 28.0 30.5
Loans —
War loans .. 130.6 223.8 300.0
Treasury bills 78.4 179.0 103.0
•421.0 669.8 715.0
The increase ip proposed war expendi-
ture amounts to approximately £8 mil-
lion, but, as the Treasurer states, “time
may well prove this year’s estimate to
have fallen short of needs.” The pre-
ceding year’s estimate was overreached
by £122 million. Actually, if the cost of
war to Australia this year is only £8 mil-
lion greater than last, it will most likely
mean a smaller war effort, because the
increase in costs has been substantially
greater than that. At this stage of the
war, however, the capital outlay on muni-
tions plant should be falling off, and
more expenditure should be in respect
of actual aimed-at production. Some of
our more ambitious munitions undertak-
ings have apparently been restricted also,
and it is likely that Australia will have
heavier demands made on it for food,
clothing and transport for fighting men ;
up to 20,000 men are to be withdrawn
from the Army, and 20,000 munition and
aircraft workers are to be transferred to
other essential activities.
The civil expenditure for the year is
forecast at £145 million, up £37 million.
This increase is largely attributable to
the proposed payment of £3O million into
the out-of-season National Welfare Fund,
the resources* of which are to be lent to
the war account. The price subsidies have
been charged to war expenditure.
No new taxation is proposed, but be-
cause of the additional taxes passed by
the House last March, income-tax revenue
is expected to be up £46 million this
year, raising the total to £l6O million.
Because of an anticipated drop in sales-
tax and customs collections, total income
from taxation is expected to rise by only
£42 million and from business under-
takings by £2.5 million. By virtue of the
cost of the National Welfare scheme,
only an extra £8 million of taxation as
such will be available for the war
account, and a deficit of £403 million
is again budgeted for.
Last year’s £403-million Budget “gap”
was financed as to £224 million by “public
loans,” etc., and as to £179 million by
Treasury bills. This year the Treasurer
hopes to raise £3OO million (up £76 mil-
lion) by loans, and to rely on hank credit
to the reduced extent of £lO3 million.
In his proposed public borrowings no
doubt he is relying on the help of the
£3O million of tax-money that will be
passing to the National Welfare Fund.
At that he will be looking for an extra
£46 million from the people, and that is
assuming that last year the banking sys-,
tern, including the central bank, did not
subscribe any part of the loans offered.
The Treasurer insists that income-tax
rates in Australia “in general” have
now reached that upper atmosphere
to which other Allied countries have
elevated their exactions, but the fact
remains that Australia’s budget “gap”
is proportionately greater than in
either Great Britain or Canada,
If taxation rates are really so high as
the Treasurer insists, then it would appear
that the cost of Australia’s war effort is
unduly inflated —and that is certainly true
to a degree—or that the proportion cf
taxation that passes to the States is far
too high. It may be also that Britain
has resorted to indirect taxation, such as
excise on beer and tobacco, to a greater
extent than the Commonwealth. What-
ever the reason, Australia’s budgeting to
meet the waste of war gives way to ex-
pedience rather than experience. There
has been a fatal reluctance to grasp the
financial nettle with both hands and
demonstrate that longsighted, bold
methods were likely to have a far better
effect on the present morale and future
prospects of the people than the crea-
tion of an illusion of personal prosperity
during a period of national hardship.
The fact that the Government is now in
power with an overwhelming majority
has not added to its financial stability.
Of the proposed total Budget outlay
44 p.c. is covered by taxation and busi-
ness income. But only 29 p.c. of the war
account is being paid for as we go. Little
wonder that the value of our money
sometimes seems to be softening like an
ice-cream in the sun.
The Treasurer insists that the introduc-
tion of pay-as-you-go taxation would
not be “simple,” and for that reason
apparently is beating round the problem.
It appears that the war effort and public
welfare have to bow to the convenience
of taxation departments to some extent.
Reciprocal aid under the lend-lease
agreement reached £59 million last year,
and in the present Budget £lOO million
has been appropriated. “American lend-
lease aid substantially exceeds reciprocal
aid by Australia.”
The debt which Australia has incurred
since war began—£73l million altogether
—has been mostly internal. Only one
loan of £l2 million has been raised in
London since war began, while repay-
ments have resulted in a net reduction
of £9 million in our total overseas debt.
Interest on the debt incurred during the
war (up to June 30) is about £2O million
a year, but, as £259 million of the debt
is represented by Treasury'bills carrying
li p.c., if any attempt is made later on
to furid this floating de,bt the interest
cost must almost certainly rise.
Special efforts are being made to assure
the success of the loan now on the
market. The response from the wage-
earning section has hitherto been poor,
and this section must make a much
greater contribution to war loans. The in-
vestor class has been taxed and “regu-
lated” out of proportion to other classes
by the present Government in its eagerness
to chase the votes of the multitude; it
is the wage-earners who have been show-
ered, in the main, with more money in-
stead of less as a result of the war. The
Government is urgently appealing for a
greater amount of war-loan funds in
order to keep bank-credit inflation at a
minimum. It is now up to those who
gave Santa Claus such support with their
votes to give him equal support with their
money. Then we shall have our loans
oversubscribed!


THE
UNITED
INSURANCE COMPANY, LTD.
HEAD OFFICE : GEORGE AND HUNTER
STREETS, SYDNEY
An'Australian Institution.
Established 1862.
DIRECTORS;
E. R. Knox (Chairman), Sir Thomas
Buckland, F. W. Hixson, Orwell
Phillips, G. F. Hughes, Robert Vicars.
Fire, Marine and Accident
Insurances of Every
Description
A. C. Dawson, T. C. Reynolds,
General Manager. Asst. Gen. Manager.
Personal and Missing Friends.
WILL anyone who was acquainted with HENRY
JAMES CHARLES MALCOLM STUART, who died
in London in June, 1943, and was believed to have
come from N.S.W., please communicate with No. 311,
Advertising Dept., Bulletin, Sydney?
WILL any person knowing the whereabouts of MRS.
ANNIE MARIE RIDLEY {nee Carr), otherwise known
as Annie S’trofleld and/or jfnnie Marie Carrie,
daughter of Mrs. Anna Maria Carr (who died at
Goondiwindi, Queensland, on the 27th May, 1934)
and who is believed to have resided in Maryborougti
(Queensland), Penrith and Sydney (N. S. Wales) be-
tween the years 1917 and 1923, or knowing any-
thing concerning the affairs of the said Annie Marie
Ridley, kindly communicate at once with Till’
UNION TRUSTEE CO. OF AUSTRALIA, LTD Syd-
ney or Brisbane? Information to the advantage of
Mrs. Ridley or her next-of-kin is available. °
Safe and Profitable—
AN “A.C.A.” POLICY
• Old age or untimely death terminates a man’s earning-power, but matures
the life policy.
• Think of your dependants, and the time when YOU will be dependent.
With an A.C.A. whole-life or endowment contract you can’t go wrong. Your
premiums earn bonuses, which accumulate as the policy matures.
• Take out an A.C.A. policy and you have a front-rank investment. The
Office directs attention to ‘‘The Bulletin’s” criticism (17/3/’43). Policy-
holders get 90 p.c. of the profits.
Australasian Catholic Assurance
COMPANY, LTD.
Head Office: A.C.A. Building, 66 King Street, Sydney.
E. J. Mooney, Managing Director. P. J. Ryan, Secretary.
Branch Offices:
Victoria: A.C.A. Building, 118-126 Queen Street, Melbourne.
Queensland: A.C.A. Building, 270 Queen S'treet, Brisbane.
South Australia: Bank op N. S. Wales Chambers, 12 King William Street, Adelaide.
Western Australia: Warwick House, St. George's Terrace, Perth.
District Offices and Agencies Throughout the States.
SPEED HIS RELEASE!
SUBSCRIBE TO THE
4th LIBERTY LOAN-
Back the attack!
Put your Savings on Service!
BUY WAR BONDS-OR
WAR SAVINGS
CERTIFICATES
Space Donated by
PHIPSON & COMPANY (PTY.) LTD.
Distributors in Australia
GILLETTE RAZOR BLADES
f
m
'//
//
///
/ 1 1 h
/
THE SPUR OF WAR
It did not need the spur of war to intensify that zeal for research which
is the secret of Philips eminence in the world of electricity. Yet,
when the spur was felt. Philips redoubled their energies, realising that
the race for victory would go to the swiftest. Nor will their pace abate
when victory has been won, for peace will have its urgencies no less
pronounced than war.
PHILIPS
Lamps * Discharge Lighting • Radio Receivers • Radio
Transmitters • Valves and Thermionic Devices • Medical and
Industrial X-Ray and Electro-Medical Equipment • Lighting Equip-
ment * Radio Parts • Metal Pressings and Stamping ®
Electrical Measuring Instruments • Sound Reproduction Installations
PHILIPS ELECTRICAL INDUSTRIES OP AUSTRALIA PTY. LIMITED
SYDNEY MELBOURNE ADELAIDE PERTH BRISBANE
The Fourth Liberty Loan
The loan, for £125 million,, is now on
the market, interest rates 3i p.c. for long-
term bonds, 2i p.c. for short-term. The
bonds are readily saleable, with no
restrictions. The money is wanted to
help finance an offensive period in Aus-
tralia’s war effort, and to keep in check
inflation in the national finances.
It is up to the people ; their unspend-
able war-time earnings are the key to
the situation. Labor received the support
of 1,935,396 civilian voters at the elec-
tions, and if only 1,500,000 of these kick
in with £3O each that will be nearly £5O
million on the way. An average contri-
bution of that sum would be little enough.
During the 12 months to the end of
August £92 million was deposited in the
savings-banks, and lotteries, racecourses,
etc., did a roaring business.
Life Assurance Now
The latest figures show the number
of policy-holders in Australian life assur-
ance offices to be 3,895,228, assuring £560
million, and the funds total £243 million.
In order eventually to provide the life
offices with enough to make up the dif-
ference between the amount they now
hold and the amount they will even-
tually have to pay out, the Australian
assuring public is paying in £21.5 mil-
lion a year in premiums. More than
half the assurance funds in Australia
today are controlled by one purely
mutual office, the A.M.P., and other
mutual offices look after the greater part
of the remainder. Private profit does
not exist so far as 85 p.c. of life assur-
ance is concerned, and in the other 15
p.c. the amount that shareholders get
out of it is microscopic.
In his presidential address (earlier
this year) to the Actuarial Society
of Australia, L. W. Offord said:
“Actuaries are more concerned with
the effects of inflation rather than
the causes, and the remedies in any
case are entirely in the hands of the Gov-
ernment.” Neatly put, without being at
all nasty; but if the remedies are so
entirely in the hands of the Government,
the causes can not be so very far from
those fingers either. It is true that war
and inflation are inseparable words, but
so, it would appear, are inflation and
the Labor party.
Inflation is a menace to life assurance,
and such inflation as we must have
should be carefully and expertly con-
trolled. Instead of such control we see
political interference, just as we see it in
defence arrangements ; so enterprise and
thrift suffer, and so does the war effort.
The cost to Australia of what amounts
to little more than political manoeuvring
and shuffling evasion has been beyond
calculation during the present war.
In spite of disabilities that are purely
of Government creation, life assurance
stands on firm *feet after over four
years of war, with 22 months of conflict
in the Pacific. Extra war mortality has
not been heavy, though the war risk
clause was waived by offices in respect of
policies taken out before September, 1939.
Since then a war-risk exclusion clause has
operated for death outside Australia and
New Zealand ; two of the leading offices
grant cover, for the time being, at any
rate, in British New Guinea. Full war
risk is granted within the island con-
tinent of Australia, plus Tasmania, by
policies taken out since war began; poli-
cies taken out prior to the war, as indi-
cated, carry full usual cover anywhere
in the world without extra loading.
Australasian offices have paid out
about £3,000,000 in war claims. It is
contended, however, with obvious com-
monsense, that the past is no guide to
the future here. Not only is there the
possibility of outbreaks of epidemics, as
hfter the last war, but there is the adverse
affect of malaria and other such diseases
on the troops who have been sent to
tropical battle stations to be considered.
Reserves have to be made against these
possibilities, with an unavoidable reduc-
tion in current bonuses.
During the last war heavy death claims
were partly absorbed in the high interest
rates then being earned by offices; this
war interest rates have been controlled
and compressed, and some public bor-
rowing is at about half 1914-18 rates.
Life-assurance taxation is higher now
also. The direction of investment is
strictly supervised, and life offices now
have a far greater proportion of their
funds, compared with before 1939, in-
vested in low-interest Government securi-
ties.
The actuaries’ president is of the
opinion that “new policy-holders are un-
doubtedly being ‘subsidised’ at the
expense of and to the detriment of exist-
ing policy-holders. Admittedly the rates
of bonus allotted to all policy-holders
have been considerably reduced conse-
quent upon increased cost of-war mor-
tality, reduced interest earnings and
other reasons, but such reduction in
bonuses has been suffered by existing
policy-holders as well as by new policy-
holders.” He arrives at that conclusion
after studying ordinary premium rates
that are unchanged in spite of the war,
the tendency for the odds generally to
increase against the offices, and the fact
that premiums paid in the past on old
policies were invested at a better rate of
interest than it is possible to invest new
premiums. It all means that people tak-
ing out policies at the present time are
on a comparatively good thing, every-
thing considered.
The fact that over 95 p.c. of life-
assurance in Australasia is of the profit-
sharing type, with extra charged in the
premiums for that purpose, has helped to
stabilise assurance here. There is an
extra margin against increased mortality
and falling interest rates. Mr, Offord
contends, however, that
the probability is that rates of bonuses on
Ordinary policies for a considerable number
oi years to come will be materially lower
than the rates allotted in pre-war years, and
the more this probable feature is stressed
to the assuring public the smaller will be
the chance of dissatisfaction arising in
future amongst disappointed policy-holders.
Nevertheless, Offord believes that, after
the war, “the artificial restrictions im-
posed by the various Governments
throughout the world regarding finance
generally, and interest rates in particular,
will eventually be gradually removed
through force of circumstances, where-
upon the price paid for the hire of capi-
tal, viz., interest, will once again be a
variable quantity depending upon the
supply of capital available and the
demand for the use of same.”
It appears that the Federal Govern-
ment, which made a pre-election promise
of an aluminium-ingot industry for Tas-
mania, is going on with the scheme.
Initial cost is put at £3 million. Smelting
works to treat bauxite will be set up in
the Island State, which, apparently, can
provide both bauxite and the cheaper
hydro-electric power that figures so
prominently in the production of re-
fined aluminium. Two years is the time
set down for the establishment of the
industry. If it is properly handled it
should turn out to be worth while.
* * * :jc
From the New England letter of the
National Bank of Boston:
Freedom of enterprise is the keystone of
all freedoms, as it provides the opportunity
lor the individual to develop according to
his capacity and to receive rewards, under
competitive conditions, in accordance with
his contributions to society. The release
of individual energy and initiative under
such a constructive stimulus is the key to
progress. It is the secret of the unmatched
achievement of the American system. Free
enterprise provides opportunities for the
fullest expression of human spirit and indi-
viduality, when accompanied by a sense
of duty and personal responsibility to the
social order. Without the freedom of enter-
prise, the Atlantic Charter Four Freedoms,
as well as all the others, would disappear
virtually overnight. For the only alterna-
tive to individual enterprise is collectivism,
the very nature of which destroys all free-
doms in its demands that the people give
undivided allegiance to an all-powerful
State.
The observations are as applicable to
this country as they are to the United
States. Considerable space in these pages
has been given to a similar line of think-
ing. But it is remarkable still to observe
the apathy with which certain sections
regard the inroads of socialisation into
the Australian economy while strenu-
ously opposing the Commonwealth
Powers Bill.


THE SERVICE MAN
Finschhafen Falls.
■‘Ek Dum”: Slow progress, attributable
to the dispersal of Japanese units, ended
in the capture of Finschhafen at 11 a.m.
on Saturday, October 2, by men of the
Ninth Division, after a final cleaning-up
bombardment.
It had been reported at the previous
week-end, four days after the A.I.F.
landed six miles north of the anchorage
at a beach beyond the Song River, that
the aerodrome had been captured. This
is only 1300 yards from the centre of
the settlement.
Then it was announced that the enemy
had established strong defence, evidently
much stronger than was anticipated, and
he showed an enterprise and vigor in the
air which he had not shown at Lae or
Salamaua. But he made no attempt to
use his field guns. His force was only a
persistent rearguard.
Meanwhile an Australian detachment
which had split off from the landing de-
tachments at Hopoi had been making a
slow way along the coast across flooded
creeks and difficult terrain, encountering
strong enemy patrol activity which
seemed to be increasing as the Finsch-
hafen area came nearer. On September'
26 this force was reported 20 miles
from Finschhafen at the eastern tip of
the Huon Peninsula; later about 10
miles to the south of Finschhafen, near
Cape Cretin.
The actual approaches to Finschhafen
are easier than those to Lae. To the land-
ward side and the north the harbor is set
in a ring of plantations, and over 50
years of organisation has civilised the
surroundings to a certain extent. Finsch-
hafen this month is 57 years old, having
been founded as a Lutheran Mission
H.Q. by the Rev. J. Flierl, from northern
S. Australia, in 1886. Its first outpost
was Simbang, three miles south of the
harbor. In the interim, the Finschhafen
branch of the Lutherans has acquired
nearly 14,000 acres of land, and some
time before the outbreak of war had
over 2000 under palms, with a little dairy-
ing and general native agriculture.
The more open and ordered surround-
ings immediately about the settlement,
however, are bound in and dominated by
the spurs of the great mountains which
monopolise most of the area of the Huon
Peninsula almost down to the sea on the
east. Stations have been long estab-
lished on them, together with road com-
munication to Finschhafen and the coast.
Only nine miles or so inland from the
Song landing beach is a station 3000 ft.
up at Sattelberg, whose name proclaims
its nature. Sattelberg settlement dates
back to 1892, and at one of its foothills
is Heldsbach, the name of which will
probably translate better out of its
original German hereafter —“Hero’s
Creek.”
From this and other directions where
the enemy had established himself out-
side the Finschhafen perimeter the A.I.F.
had to meet strong, if small, counter-
attacks. From the air there were lat-
terly frequent if sporadic raids. Though
H.Q. reported that these inflicted only
light casualties and no damage, they were
something which the troops had not had
to face at any stage in the advance on
Lae.
The communique of September 29 re-
ported sharp fighting on the high ground
south of the Bumi River, which runs from
between the spurs south of Sattelberg,
but north and west of Finschhafen main
settlement.
The northern perimeter of the enemy
stockade now seemed to be invested and
forward elements of the Australians had
reached a small creek which runs directly
west of their objective —Ilebbe Creek.
Next day they pushed into Salankaua
plantation, which is only 600 yards from
the jetty, round the landward side of
which clusters the “township” —better
termed a station, since it consists entirely
of mission buildings.
Before the week-end they had taken
the high ground of the Kakakog spur
north-west of the centre of the mission
station, and everything had been set for
the final assault on Saturday morning.
There were still pockets of resistance
in the background, but it seemed that it
would not be long before the whole area
of the east and south coast of the Huon
Peninsula would be clear from the Mark-
ham mouth to north of Song Creek.
The job had been brought near com-
pletion by the force from the northern
beach, since up to the time of the taking
of Finschhafen the force working up
from the south coast had not arrived in
the more intimate battle area.
Inland along the Markham the Kaiapit
patrol continued its adventurous way to-
wards Bogadjim. By the week-end, fol-
lowing the trail of destruction marked
out by bombers and strafers, it was at
Kasawai, about 50 miles from Madang,
20 miles from Astrolabe Bay and 35
miles beyond Kaiapit. This progress has
double value, since it is made not only
towards Madang itself but into the Ramu
area, which is separated from the Mark-
ham Valley by a watershed that changes
its slope almost imperceptibly.
From Lae to Bogadjim
The route from Lae and the Markham
mouth to Madang is one of the best in
the hinterland. The track runs through
the Markham Valley to the east of the
river, which hugs the western ranges. Its
main barriers are a series of tributaries
coming in at right angles from the Huon
side. These have pebbly or shingly bot-
toms and no gluepots; they run wide
after rain, but are only brooks normally.
In ordinary times there is nothing to pre-
vent cars, jeeps, even tanks and guns
from making the trip to Bogadjim on
Astrolabe Bay, which, in New Guinea
measurement terms, is about “twelve
days’ walk” with carriers from Lae.
The fact that a patrol of not great
strength has pushed on this far to within
20 miles of Astrolabe Bay, with no great
resistance, is good news. It advertises
that the Allied command is confident
that the enemy has no substantial force
in this region and that there is small
danger of the expeditionaries suffering
a surprise attack in the Madang area,
from which the present position could
be reached by a lunge in the hours of
darkness.
Occupation of Madang would make a
great deal of difference to the whole New
Guinea position.
However, north coast events, espe-
cially at Wewak, advertise that there is
still considerable work to be done before
New Guinea is ours, though since May
the enemy appears to have had only a
strong outpost force progressively weak-
ening.
At Wewak
Before the beginning of the Lae cam-
paign it was announced that enemy air
support bases had been driven by the
attacks on Wewak over the Dutch border
to Hollandia. Nevertheless, every visit
to Wewak since has brought opposition
by large numbers of enemy fighters, and
most have shown Jap ’planes on tfie
ground.
It was found necessary last week to
keep up a series of major attacks on
Wewak in conjunction with steady attri-
tion on the Madang coastal area and the
roads south of it to the Bogadjim-Lae
turnoff.
On September 25 it was officially re-
ported that 200 Allied machines had de-
stroyed 50 enemy aircraft parked on the
ground at Wewak, while a newly-arrived
convoy was almost completely destroyed
—three tankers left on fire and sinking,
four merchant vessels sunk or severely
damaged and 22 barges or luggers wiped
out. The enemy intercepted with 20
fighters, eight of which were shot down
and three more probably destroyed, but
intense ack-ack fire got three of our
bombers.
The official communique added that
the previous day an Allied fighter patrol
had brought down six enemy-fighters and
probably destroyed a seventh. More than
160,000 rounds of ammunition were-
poured into Wewak on Sept. 25. The
communique added;
The enemy’s efforts to re-establish his
operational air bases north-east of New
Guinea appear to have been again effectively
countered.
On September 30 there was a further
report that Liberators, escorted by
fighters, had dropped 145 tons of ex-
plosives on Wewak and destroyed the
enemy’s storage ammunition depot on
Wewak Peninsula, apart from causing
several other fires. Eight enemy inter-
ceptors out of 40 were shot down, but all
Allied aircraft returned to base, though
some machines were damaged.
In other parts of the Solomons-East
Indian arc air activity followed its usual
routine against installations and shipping,
and there were many barge hunts.
In the Solomons the concentrations of
Allied effort were against the Buin-Faisi
and Kolombangara areas. On Oct. 1 it
was reported that 12 out of 35 intcreep-
tors had been shot down in the Buin-
Faisi area. One Allied fighter was miss-
ing. On Oct. 2 in Bougainville Strait
a destroyer and two merchant ships in
a blockade-running convoy of 11 vessels
were destroyed and another damaged.
A single early-morning raid by 25
machines was made on the Drysdale
River Mission, North Westralia, the
attack being officially mentioned on Sep-
tember 29. Damage and casualties were
described as “minor,” but the death of
a missionary was announced by the
Abbot of New Norcia, the parent
mission in South Westralia —both were
founded by Spanish monks.
General Alexander's Prize.
“Ek Dum”: Few weeks of history have
given any operational commander prizes
equal to-those grasped by the armies of
General Alexander. Last week Alex-
ander’s left wing in Italy, General
Clark’s Fifth Army, half-American, half-
British, and the Royal and U.S. Navies
had taken Naples, under an umbrella
of the ’planes of the United Nations.
Naples, with its 900,000 people, its
dazzling panorama of beauty and in-
dustry, is a prize indeed, a port in
southern Europe which takes second place
to none, a city which shares with Barce-
lona and Marseilles the distinction of
being one of the three biggest centres of
population washed by the Mediterranean
waves.
On the right wing General Montgomery
with his Eighth Army, all British and
British Dominion, had captured Foggia,
with its dozen or so airfields, the strategic
air centre of the Mediterranean region.
Had such things been accomplished in
Russia radio uncles would have fainted
at their microphones and flapper-paper
editors at their desks. As it was, some
writers held it against the commander of
the Fifth Army that the battle was nip-
and-tuck ; that at one stage the issue was
in doubt; that there were heavy losses.
All true of every great battle; true
of Austerlitz, of Blenheim, Borodino
and Waterloo, both as to the swaying
issue and the losses. Wellington, whose
great-grandson is dead in Italy, at 31,
wept when he saw the Waterloo casualty
list; and it was greater than that of
Salerno, where in the first 12 days the
British lost 5211 and in the first week
the Americans 3497 killed, wounded and
missing.
What the Fifth Army did—B3 years
almost to the day since Garibaldi entered
Naples while enthusiastic Italians sang
in the streets that they were “lusty
youths” breaking their necks “to fight
the tedeschi” (Germans) —was merely
this:
They landed on a flat open beach and
on a front across which the enemy was
at liberty to move tanks and mobile guns.
They drove in various directions into
gorges and hills. They forced ways
through streets in which every building
was an m.-g. nest or a grenade post. They
pushed into withering fire along routes
either hemmed in by high hills on both
sides of narrow craggy valleys, in which
the enemy guns were as plentiful as the
villas and the fruit- and olive-trees, or
along roads bottlenecked by bridges on
which bullets fell like hailstones.
They continued this process for days
on end on roads dyed with blood, each
step for long merely leading them to
greater perils.
Thp attackers made mistakes. They
sometimes faltered, as inexperienced
troops under unblooded officers (and well-
blooded officers, too!) often do in large
engagements. They deviated from a plan
which was perhaps too rigid, though in
the history of war no campaign or battle
ever went as it was planned against an
almost equal adversary.
Battles are to be judged entirely by
their results in relation to their objectives
and price. In this case the objectives
were achieved gloriously.
The Salerno operation by the Fifth and
Eighth Armies might be compared to
taking Sydney from a sea base as far away
as Melbourne by a landing along the
low coast from Stanwell Park to Kiama,
the invaders driving home the attack
against a force double the strength of the
three great A.I.F. divisions —Sixth,
Seventh and Ninth—backed by armored
divisions armed with 52-ton tanks and
heavy artillery, and occupying defended
positions covering all approaches to
Bowral, Picton and the Appin roads to
Ingleburn and to Botany Bay.
From Vietri on the Salerno Gulf to
Nocera, crags 3000 feet high to seaward
and nearly the same to the landward
appear fairly to hang over the valley
round the pleasant town or two on the
way to the Vesuvian plain.
First there »was the tough struggle for
the 2\ miles into Cava from the sea to
be faced. And the arcaded streets of
Cava, 1300 ft. surrounding heights and its
Benedictine Abbey proved to be one
machine-gun post after the other, with
tanks ahead spurting flame. The sides
of the valley had to be washed clean with
explosives. The Navy joined in the spring
cleaning.
That three-mile approach accomplished
there was another three miles of death
road in the tracks of Hannibal, After
that the way to the Vesuvian plain opens.
The roads’ divide.
One highway goes down the fertile
banks of the Sarno, which runs into the
sea near Pompeii, along the foothills of
the dominating Sorrento Peninsula. This
route squeezes its way between Vesuvius
and the bay into Naples. The other turns
right along the eastward spurs across the
valley between the twin Vesuvius and
Somma and the inland mountains, after
which it emerges behind Naples on
the broad and fertile Campagna. That
plain is crammed with population,
and spreads out to the lagoons along
the sea north of the city and to the
inland gorges of the River Volturno.
But before this country could be reached
there was another narrow valley to nego-
tiate, dominated by hills and ravines on
each side.
The Push to Pompeii
After days of fighting, Nocera, 12 miles
from Salerno, was captured, while for
many miles to the south the flanks were
cleared. The Fifth Army was still 25
miles from Naples by the coastal road
through Pompeii between Vesuvius and
the sea.
It fought its way on eight miles to
pine-clad Scafati, whose smells of jam
and pickle factories were already
subordinated to the odor of T.N.T.
Here poor Munday, of the “S. M.
Herald,” and his two press companions
were killed.
The force pushed down the fertile little
Sarno Valley, past the hillock of debris
from Pompeii which has been moved
there, into Torre Annunciata.
At last the spearhead had reached the
waters of the Bay of Naples. At Torre
Annunciata the roads fork into three.
One goes west along the Sorrento
Peninsula, from both sides of which the
men of the Fifth had now seen Capri and
the flashes of the battleship guns, to
Castellammare.
One goes north-east up the landward
side of Vesuvius and on to Cancello.
The coastal one goes straight on along
the coast to Naples itself —the road which
Garibaldi followed —on the waterfront,
through Pompeii and Herculaneum, into
the heart of the city and to the walls of
the Castel Nuovo facing the dominant
hill of St. Elmo.
Castel Nuovo, whose black tufa walls
have stood for 700 years, looks like a
negroid edition of Sydney’s White Bay
silos when seen from a dusky distance.
Torre Annunciata is a neat little port
with a mole, l£i miles from Naples, but
it was not so neat after the R.N. found
it, and even the macaroni -industry,
which has been operating there since
1319, shut down for the last week in
September, 1943, while British-Americans
and Germans fought it out for the cross-
roads. The Germans broke. The Fifth
Army went rolling on along the coast
past the last prickly-pear and palms be-
fore Naples, still having to fight in the
black lava cuttings and ruins along the
road, but only in delaying and cleanmg-
up operations savage rearguard
actions, one decided in Pompeii itself.
On Hannibal’s Track
At the same time the inland road
behind Vesuvius had been opened. Along
this from Torre Annunciata, and by
other routes from Nocera and the hills,
sections of the united forces fought their
way through the orchards and vineyards
and tobacco fields, from town to town
along the spurs from the east ranges
impinging on to, the plain. They too tv
Nola, which Hannibal three times
assaulted; which Genseric and Spartacus
had plundered; where Augustus died.
They pushed on into the hills to AveUmo,
blocking the way to enemy troops from
Benevento and the centre of the Italian
peninsula.
Alexander’s Fence
Across Italy, 30 miles or so from
Naples, on the northmost fringes o
the Campagna, a barrier of river and
mountain crosses Italy. To the east are
the limestone ranges of the Apennme.
These tower up in gorge-split massi s
6000 feet or so. , . .
East of the mountains on the Adriatic
plain is Foggia, which the Eighth Army
grabbed fiercely, with all its
of aerodromes, after a little stiff:fighting
The Apennine area between this town
and the Neapolitan Campagna is a tough
wall to assault for an army moving nor ■
It forms a fence across half the count* y.
The railway from Foggia to Ihe western
coast (at first with the road, which later
follows a slightly different h ack ) d!
through the flat-bottomed valley of the
Cervano River, plunges through a t
mile tunnel 33 miles out, negotiates an-
other half-mile sewer through the moun-
tains six miles on, up .
cano stream bed, and follows the
teresting valley of the . . B
About 63 miles from Foggia is eene
ve£o“n . hffl amphitheatre between the


Divorce Notices.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW SOUTH
WALES —In Divorce.
TO MARTIN FELIX BOYCE (commonly known as
Frank Boyoe) late of 143 Forbes Street East Sydney.
—TAKE NOTICE that ELIZA MARY BOYOE has
filed a Petition for Divorce No. 2777 of 1942 on the
ground of desertion without just cause ■or excuse
for three years and upwards If you wish to defend
you may enter an appearance at the Divorce Office
Supreme Court King Street Sydney by the Ist day
of December next and 1 obtain a copy of the petition
without charge from CLAYTON UTZ & COMPANY
Solicitors 136 Liverpool Street Sydney.—(l.s.)
C. K. BODY, Registrar.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW SOUTH
WALES—In Divorce.
TO ARTHUR TATTERSALL late of Sydney.—TAKE
NOTICE that EDNA MABEL TATTERSALL has filed
a Petition for Divorce No. 1962 of 1943 on the ground
of desertion without just cause or excuse for three
years and upwards If you wish to defend you may
enter an appearance at the Divorce Office Supreme
Court King Street Sydney on your behalf on or
before the 15th December 1943 and obtain a copy
of the petition without charge from E. A. OLEARY
& CO., Solicitors 56 Hunter Street Sydney.—(l.s.)
C. K. BODY, Registrar in Divorce.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW SOUTH
WALES —In Divorce.
TO WILLIAM THOMAS SCHOFIELD late of Merton
Street Denman N. S. Wales.—TAKE NOTICE that
VOLGA DOROTHY SCHOFIELD has filed a Petition
for Divorce No. 420 of 1943 on the ground of de-
sertion without just cause or excuse for three years
and upwards If you wish to defend you may enter
an appearance at the Divorce Office Supreme Court
King Street Sydney on the Ist day of November
1943 and obtain a copy of the petition without charge
fr#m J. B. MOFFATT & SON Solicitors 104 Hunter
Street Sydney—(l.s.) C. K. BODY, Registrar.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW SOUTH
WALES—In Divorce.
TO ALEXANDER MILTON CAMERON late of
Tamworth shopkeeper.—TAKE NOTICE that PEARL
BEATRICE CAMERON has filed a Petition for
Divorce No. 1475 of 1943 on the ground of deser-
tion for three years and upwards If you • wish to
defend you may enter an appearance at the Divorce
Office Supreme Court King Street Sydney by the
Fifteenth day of November One thousand nine hun-
dred and forty-three and obtain a copy of the
petition without charge from WM. LIEBERMAN &
TOBIAS of 56 Hunter Street Sydney.—-(1.5.) C. K
BODY, Registrar in Divorce.
CD
am
Galore and the Sabato. Talleyrand was
once its prince. It is an important
strategic point, blocking all escape for
any large forces southward and provid-
ing a key to the approaches to the Cam-
pagna and Naples from the east and
south-east. Montgomery’s men seized it.
Road and rail now plunge down to the
point where the Volturno River from
the north and the Galore River join and
squeeze out in a single turbulent brown
stream. Ttys writhes and loops across the
northern border of the Campagna
past the Bourbon “Versailles” of Caserta
and Capua, old and new, to the Tyr-
rhenian Sea. From Foggia to Gaeta on the
Tyrrhenian coast is about 90 miles crowfly.
The Volturno River crossing at Capua
is the strategic centre of this fence of
river and range from Foggia to Gaeta.
Every kind of military architect from
Hannibal to Vauban has fortified this
gateway to Rome, where the river almost
turns new Capua into an island.
This is the crucial point at which Gari-
baldi broke the Bourbon power in the
battle of the Volturno on October 1-2,
1860. It is one of the main bridgehead
areas in which the Allies must now estab-
lish themselves quickly north of the Vol-
turno if they are to keep their pressure
on Rommel. There is a second route
via Formia across the Pontine Marshes
along the sea, but this the enemy could
threaten on the flank if the Capuan road
and rail to the Alban Hills were not
also in Allied hands.
Across the river on the north, the Liri
Valley mouth opens beyond Capua to
receive the road to the capital.
From thereabouts the enemy is having
his last look at the spoils he has lost.
He can see much of the Campagna with
the Fifth Army streaming across it in his
wake. He can see, on his right, out past
Naples to the towering island of Ischia,
at the northern gate of the bay. Also, the
plume of Vesuvius beyond the twin
mountain of Somma on his left, and the
pass to Nocera strewn with his dead and
debris.
Also, he can see, too far away to reach
with his guns, the road approaches from
Benevento and Avellino from the east,
along which the Allied armies at the
week-end were on the point of forming
junction to fence him off from southern
Italy.
Berlin Has Plans!
Berlin on October 1 announced:
The High Command is about to make
completely new defensive dispositions in
Central Italy, in accordance with the prin-
ciples and considerations upon which our
movements on the Eastern [Russian] front
were based. The German Command in-
tends to hold as short a line as possible.
No doubt various lines in Central Italy
will be held for a time. But nothing short
of the line of the Arno is l- much good in
view of Allied naval and air strength.
And the only line which can be co-
ordinated on the best defensible route
from the Mediterranean Spanish border
to the Black Sea region or the Car-
pathians is that north of the Po along the
foothills of the Alps.
Large Eighth Army reinforcements
were landed at Taranto, Brindisi and
Bari during the week. The Eighth Army
was pushing fiercely north-west as well as
south-west to join General Clark, follow-
ing the coastal road via San Severe;
at the same time racing towards the
centre via Lucera to cut off any retreat
from Benevento via a central highway
which goes to Carpinone up the Piedmon-
tese valleys. If the enemy road blocks
can be broken on this track, it will be
bad for Rommel’s flank, since the route
will bring the Eighth Army out 40 miles
behind the western Volturno line on the
main road and rail town of Frosinone,
only 70 miles from Rome, and to half a
dozen roads leading to the capital over
easy terrain.
More Retreat in Russia.
“Ek Bum”: When the Germans were
going like rock wallabies from the Foggia
area, with the teeth of the Eighth Army
panzers behind them and the capture of
the aerial strategic centre of southern
Axis Europe almost within grasp, a
Sydney daily reported the news under
small headings across the bottom corner
of a page: “Nazis Reported Leaving
Foggia.” Across the whole top of the
same page was a huge black heading:
“Nazis Fleeing From Kiev.” They were
still holding Kiev days later. Mont-
gomery had Foggia.
What is happening in Russia seems to
be about the same as is happening in
Italy, except that in Russia the foe is
giving U P larger areas with less fighting.
But retreats which move so fast that the
Russians have trouble in catching up
with them are reported as if they were
carried out in the midst of huge battles
in which vast forces are locked and
rivers run red.
All the signs indicate that the retreat
is an orderly one in which enemy losses
of both men and booty are relatively
small. Prisoners are mentioned rarely,
and then only in small batches —so small
that dailies scarcely ever quote them
from the communiques. Little booty is
reported—more prisoners and booty
were announced in any one day of the
winter retreat than in a month in the
present one.
On reaching the Dnieper from Kiev to
the Dnieperstroi Dam last week, and the
Melitopol line further south to Azov, the
Russian advance stopped at all points
save where the river had not been quite
reached. Kremenchug, on the east bank,
was taken, but so far no cities on the
western bank.
The gate of the Crimea was still pad-
docked off, but the Kuban was now
fully evacuated.
North of Kiev and south of Gomel,
where the enemy withdrawal had not
reached the Dnieper in the Chernigov
region, the pace slowed down to a
fiercely resistant walk.
From Gomel northwards across the
main Moscow-Minsk road behind Smo-
lensk and as far as Vitebsk, the retreat
was accelerated. The Germans said they
were disengaging themselves as part of
their plan—their movement was certainly
even along the whole sector.
A Moscow account was that the enemy
was being forced back in a thunderous
battle and was pouring in tanks and re-
inforcements in this region in a desper-
ate attempt to save the situation. The
Russian advances were at the same
steady, even rate which marked progress
in the south —seven, nine or more miles
a day, too fast for really heavy general
fighting.
The war in Russia is very far from
won. Trying days lie ahead for the Red
Army unless German morale breaks.
In a Single Year.
“Ek Bum”: A year has altered the
strategic outlook of the Allies in a way
which makes the scenes of war look like
something out of a brave new world.
Just 12 months ago the then situation
and its probable development were here
outlined (B. 7/10/’42).
It was written that “Hitler must win
the sea war, and that next year, or he is
done,” since the training of armies and
the building of Allied ships within a year
would reach such a stage that he might
find Allied control of the Mediterranean
and the Middle East complete and his
back door invaded by land. It was re-
marked that the “Germans are not likely
to forget what happened when the Allies
stove in the German rear in the Balkans
in the last war. This time it might be
Italy.”
Jn one eventful year nearly all that
was hoped for here has been accom-
plished. The Sportspalast is a heap of
rubble. The Allies are in control of the
Mediterranean sea routes and of the
Middle East. In four months to Sep-
tember 18 no ships were sunk in the
North Atlantic by U-boats. On October
1 the Germans claimed to have destroyed
315,700 tons in the previous month, plus
a battleship, three cruisers, 20 destroyers ;
the figure was reached by including
Italian losses and doing the usual multi-
plication sums. It is admitted that three
Allied naval vessels, including the
Canadian destroyer St. Croix (there was
only one survivor), and five merchant
ships were lost in a convoy battle in
mid-September. In effect, the U-boat war
is not over.
But nobody is destroying any Allied
tanks in Africa. And no longer “it might
be” Italy. It is Italy.
The Objective in Asia
It was suggested that the Allied policy
would be to pin the Japs down to a
single main area of combat, at the same
time whittling down Jap shipping and
making the enemy increase his usage of it,
and that a corollary to this purpose was
to take from the enemy as soon as pos-
sible the areas which gave him rubber,
tin, iron and oil before he could build
up stores of these necessary commodities.
A beginning has been made to achieve
these results. Consequences of the Medi-
terranean campaign are being seen in the
Japanese zone as on the Russian front.
In north and south Nippon is shortening
lines.
The Bulletin’s summary of the situa-
tion concluded with the statement that
with the swift reconquest of Burma, fol-
lowed by the gaining of Malaya and/or
the region south of a line through Thai-
land and Cambodia, from Tavoy to
Camranh Bay, it would become a very
different war for Australia.
With the conception of Far Eastern
strategy accepted by the Chiefs of Staffs
Committee, General MacArthur doubt-
less is in full agreement. It provides the
shortest route by which his proposed
swift massive blows at main Japanese
objectives can be delivered without the
“island-hopping” to which he so strongly
and rightly objects, and which, so far,
has constituted the only style of opera-
tion outside the far more important naval
operations under Admiral Nimitz’s con-
trol —the Coral Sea battle and the Solo-
mons battle in November, which cost the
enemy two battleships—carried out in the
South Pacific.
Under the “hopping” policy it has
taken over a year to progress from
Guadalcanal to the Russell Islands, from
the Russells to Rendova, and from Ren-
dova to New Georgia and then on to
Vella Lavella. And our operations against
New Guinea, glorious as they have been
in individual daring, magnificent in indi-
vidual tenacity and dreadful in the trials
involved, have in scale been not large
enough to produce any noticeable attri-
tion in proportion to the enemy’s huge
resources and man-power.
The Enemy’s Strength
Max Hill, former head of the Asso-
ciated Press Bureau in Tokyo, wrote last
October:
At the outbreak of war Japan had under
arms 3,500,000 to 4,000,000 men, of whom
at least 1,500,000 were called up in 1941.
There is a potential reservoir of men of
military-service age of at least 8,000,000
more... .The already trained group is large,
since by automatic service Japan has called
up each year between 200,000 and 250,000
men between 20 and 22 years.
These figures square with general prob-
abilities. Service liability is from 17 to
40 under the conscription scheme ; train-
ing constant for two years. Only recently
was total mobilisation decreed. Japan
has a man-power capacity of at least 300
divisions.
And Japan still has 10 battleships, in-
cluding two new ones which are reported
to be as big and powerful as the German
Bismarck and Tirpitz, and a strong sur-
face navy, including seemingly endless
barges capable of crossing the open sea
at speed, as well as an air force which,
despite its losses, is still unconquered in
China, the South Pacific or Burma.
And the Jap has some new ’planes
which have proved an unpleasant surprise.
The five Senators who recently visited
Australia on the last lap of their tour of
American military stations carried back
this news to their country, together with
other impressions of the Pacific war—in
which Maoriland ground troops, as well
as Maoriland airmen, companions vof
those who have served gloriously in the
war against Germany, have gone into
action.
The Offensive Area
The area in which the Allies’ attack
against the great Japanese forces will be
generated has been sketched as about
3,000,000 square miles of land and sea,
enclosed by borders which run south from
a point just east of the entrance to the
Persian Gulf nearly to Madagascar,
thence east almost to the North West-
ralian coast, then north to the South
China border, just below Hong Kong.
It includes Burma, Siam, French Indo-
China and most of Sumatra, with
its oil and airfields; includes Malaya
and Singapore and the ports and bases
of the South Asian coast from which
the approaches to the Philippines and
Hong Kong can be controlled and sup-
plies poured into China by a route which
will make the Burma Road soon obsolete.
From this area the feet of the Allies
can be placed on the ladder of ports up
which they must climb along the Chinese
coast (with a helping hand from the
Chinese and U.S. forces on the landward
side) till they are within reach of Japan
itself. Japan is not within anything like
effective bombing range till Shanghai is
approached.
India and Ceylon form the best line of
approach to secure control of the heart
of Japan’s South Asian sphere.
Ceylon is the hub of the new offensive
area —indeed it might be termed the pivot
of Allied world strategy, since it is almost
equidistant from everywhere that matters
—6OOO miles from London, roughly the
same from Sydney and Honolulu and a
bit less from Tokyo.' Approach to it
across the Atlantic, either from Britain
or America, is achieved by extension of
the existing sea lines to the Mediterranean
fronts and south Russia. This particular
sea line is supplemented by a trans-
Persian road and rail line from the Medi-
terranean shore. Approach from America
via the Pacific is merely an extension of
the sea line from Australia, whose sup-
plies can be poured in by the same route
and under the same defences as those via
the Pacific from U.S.
Ceylon, as a base, is therefore a final
centralised terminus for all Allied
strategic sea routes, much more suitable
for a pivot base in the main attack against
Japan than any other, since it can be
armed and supplied in the shortest dis-
tance with the least adjustment of routes
and sea-lane defences from all main
sources of armament and man-power.
And within the Indian area there are
great man-power resources —2,000,000
local recruits already—abundant metals
and huge munition plants and base ac-
commodation already in existence and
oil galore on the doorstep in Iraq and
Persia, portable by a route which Japan
cannot hope to attack either by air or sea.
A Naval Operation
The nature of the command and the
method to be employed have been de-
termined by the fact that all the phases
of the war for some time will be pri-
marily naval, the Navy using the air as
its weapon and the progress of land
forces being largely decided by naval
strategy as applied to the whole area.
The organising command has been
placed in the hands of an officer who has
been promoted more quickly than any
other in naval history since the golden
days of the eighteenth century —Lord
Louis Mountbatten. In May, 1941, a
junior captain sitting on his wrecked
destroyer off Crete, he was less than a
year later a vice-admiral, air marshal and
lieutenant-general all in one. At 43,
the age at which Wellington was at his
best, he is a full admiral, the youngest in
recent times, planning one of the largest
combined operations since Nelson’s day.
He has a lot of Wellington’s character-
istics —his flair for communications and
transport, which is the heart of victorious
generalship, among them.
The monsoon rains are over this
month. The best season for a campaign
in Burma is in two months’ time.
Raiding over Germany and German-occupied
Europe was resumed in force last week. On
Sept. 27 the Allies lost seven heavy bombers
and the Luftwaffe 58 fighters. On Sept. 28 1500
tons of bombs were dropped in Hanover and
its rail facilities in 30 minutes; Brunswick was
also attacked and Emden was strafed by Fort-
resses. In the night raids 38 bombers were
lost. Seven enemy fighters were shot down over
Holland. Munich was attacked both by U.S.
machines from North Africa and R'A.F. Lan-
caster squadrons from Britain in heavy raids,
and Hagen junction in the Ruhr and Wiener
Neustadt in Austria blasted. Nine bombers
were lost in the R.A.F.’s general operations on
the day of the Munich raid.
* * * *
The R.A.F. dropped only 11,000 tons of,
bombs on German objectives m September,
against a previous monthly record of 16,000
tons, but U.S. bombing increased by half to
5300 tons.


'Sir'll
set
HOME
FRONT
The record of the Olympic Company is
a proud one. On the Fighting Fronts,
Olympic Tyres and Rubber Insulated Cables
are rendering distinguished service to
Australia.
In addition, on the Home Front, wherever
the going is tough, you will find Olympic
Tyres pulling their weight for victory.
RUBBER
0
IINSULATEDI)
CABLESr
/P'todwXwiv rtf
“Oltjmplc
TYRE & RUBBER CO. LTD.
whiteH°^
•'scotch Whisky
SE
WHITE HORSE DISTILLERS LTD.,
Glasgow and London,
SPORTING NOTIONS
(Conducted by "PILOT")
The opening day of the A.J.C. meeting
at Randwick will be replete with interest.
Moorland’s form in the Craven Plate
should show whether his Metropolitan
chance is as good as supposed. On recent
form Katanga is the best of the older
horses in the Craven Plate, and as, at an
advantage of 71b. on the w.f.a. scale,
Tribal easily beat him in the Chelmsford
Stakes it is reasonable to expect Moor-
land to do so, seeing he is rated 31b.
better than Tribal in the Clibborn Stakes.
Yaralla won the last Craven Plate in
easy fashion from Rimveil, and despite
recent failures it might be unwise to rule
him out this time. The form of Main
Topic and Veiled Threat will be of in-
terest, as, though they have gone out of
favor, it may give a good idea of whether,
with the assistance of another run, in the
Colin Stephen Stakes, they can still be
considered Metropolitan possibilities.
Perhaps the Clibborn Stakes will be
chosen for War Eagle, who, like Tribal,
is doing great work. War Eagle is
nicely weighted with 8.11, and though
his stable companion Chinook is also
in the Clibborn Stakes the owner of
both may wish to ascertain whether the
latter is really an Epsom possibility, and
may consequently run him in The Shorts,
in which he has the minimum weight,
against 71b. above it in the Epsom.
Mayfowl, who is credited with having im-
proved since the Rosehill Guineas, Mac-
Arthur, Falcon Knight and Highgate will
assist in making the selection of the Clib-
born Stakes winner a tough task for
backers.
As Abydos was reported to have been
made the first leg of some Epsom and
Metropolitan doubles, he will, as a 71b.
allowance reduces his weight to 8.1, be a
popular pick for the Trial Stakes. He has
7.5 in the Metropolitan. Of the Breeders’
Plate candidates the 1600gns. colt Majesty
(Golden Sovereign-Swiftspear) has shown
to most advantage in work, but other
smart gallopers who have been seen at
Randwick or Victoria Park .include
Buckle (Excitement-Epigraph), Victory
Lad (Brueghel-Chanson), Prince Verity
(Midstream-Verity), Cragsman (Felcrag-
Suncloud), Shannon (Midstream-Idle
Words), Oliver (Fresco-Myra’s Miss) and
Wheatland (brother to Modulation). Pre-
sumably there are smart youngsters at
some of the other tracks.
As was to be expected. Modulation
and Goose Boy went up in the weights in
The Shorts and Squatters’ Handicap re-
spectively, as compared with the Epsom
and Metropolitan, but not to the extent
of suggesting that the handicapper shares
the opinion that the last-mentioned races
are as good as won by those two horses.
Modulation may not run for The Shorts,
but if he does he will have several tough
opponents, these including Gold Salute,
who is down 31b. on his Epsom weight,
and will meet Modulation 81b. better
than when the latter finished behind him
in heavy going in the Tramway Handi-
cap at Tatt.’s meeting.
If Gold Salute has any chance of suc-
cess in the Epsom, he should show it in
this race, as, in addition to Modulation,
he will meet Panchio, Magi, Kingsdale
and Prince on better-than-Epsom terms.
As Hesione is working satisfactorily, per-
haps she may be given preference to
Prince on Saturday.
So far as Goose Boy’s Squatters’ Han-
dicap prospects are concerned, he will, if
he starts, meet Shining Night 21b. worse
than in the Metropolitan, but improving
horses in Mobndarewa, Lambeth and
Grand Fils are, by comparison, respec-
tively 71b., 81b. and 71b. better off. Goose
Boy is also in the Craven Plate.
If Lord Neith is all his Newcastle ad-
mirers believe he will have the oppor-
tunity of showing it in the Squatters’
Handicap, in which at a mile and a quar-
ter —a distance he undoubtedly can get —
he has only 21b. more than in the Metro-
politan. Ron Rico, Beau Timide,
Gryphon and Cream Puff are lightly-
weighted Squatters’ Handicap horses
likely to receive some attention from
backers.
* * * *
The Joker’s prominence in Melbourne
quotations is scarcely warranted on form.
When he won the Wellington Cup he
carried only 7.2 to the 10.3 of Royal
Lancer, whom he beat a head. At his
last start he easily won the C.J.C.
(Christchurch) Great Autumn Handicap
with 8.12, but Royal Lancer was third
in that race with 10.3 in a field of
13, and he is not a Kindergarten
be a very long way. It is unusual
for a mare to be represented by a good
stayer and a* first-class sprinter in the
same season. Attractive Lady, dam of
The Joker and Lord Nuffield is an excep-
tion. The last-named, by Straightcourse,
is one of Maoriland’s best short-distance
horses. The Joker is by Paladin.
Still, Cups support for The Joker indi-
cates that the Maoriland gelding has pro-
gressed the right way since his arrival
in Australia. In probably the largest
individual commission this spring. The
Joker was supported straightout for the
Caulfield and Melbourne Cups, and
coupled in doubles for both races. He
will make his Australian debut next Satur-
day, and, all going well, will be able to
have one more race before Caulfield.
* * * *
Abolition of raceless Saturdays has
caused a reshuffle of dates for the V.R.C.
spring meeting. All November fixtures
have been advanced by one week, with
Derby day now Nov. 6, Cup day Nov. 13,
Williamstown Cup day Nov, 20 and Ascot
Cup day Nov. 27.
* * * *
H. Skidmore, one of Melbourne’s best-
known jockeys before his retirement over
two years ago, intends to resume as an
owner-rider this spring. Provided the
necessary permission .is forthcoming
from the stewards, he will ride Hellenger
in the first two-year-old race of the
season and Whitten (if the latter’s im-
mediate form warrants a start) in the Vic-
toria Derby. Skidmore, who already has
had four rides as an owner, is still a
young man, 27, can ride at about 8.3,
and is a regular attendant at Flemington
training tracks.
* * * *
The report of the N.S.W. Auditor-
General shows that the total revenue re-
ceived in taxation from racing (horses
and dogsi) for 1942-43 was £290,756,
against £302,504 in 1941-42. Restriction
of meetings was responsible for a de-
crease in every other source, but it is
interesting to note that the tote returned
£142,068 for 1942-43, against £112,600
the previous year. This upholds the con-
tention that there was never previously
so much money for cash betting—espe-
cially on metropolitan courses —on horse-
racing as during the past 15 months, and
also demonstrates continued growth in
the popularity of the tote in N.S.W. The
“books” also admit they have done won-
derful business, and this is upheld by the
reports of such a large number of big
bets, cash as well as booked.
* * * *
One of the two extra days available
in Sydney consequent on the restoration
of raceless Saturdays should go to Ascot,
but instead of the clubs being at vari-
ance as to which should get the other
why not make it a joint meeting in aid
of the Lord Mayor’s Fund? The clubs
could arrange among themselves as to
their respective contributions in priae-
money.
* * * *
Night Raid (Radium-Sentiment, by
Spearmint) died last month in Maori-
land. Bred in England in 1918, he was
imported to Australia P. Keith in
1921, After winning two races for Keith
he was bought by A. P, Wade and was
later sold to go to Maoriland, where he
made a name for himself as a high-class
sire. His noted sons included Melbourne
Cup winners in Phar Lap—probably the
best racehorse Australia has seen —and
Nightmarch.
* * f *
In Maoriland the totalisator turnover
has direct bearing on stakes, and heavy
betting has been such a feature during
the past year that many clubs have greatly
increased their prizes. For the New
Zealand Cup the C.J.C. (Christchurch) is
giving £3OOO against £2OOO last season,
the Derby has advanced from £l5OO to
£2OOO, and there is fourth money for
every race on the spring programme. The
Wellington R.C, has done even better.
Next January the Wellington Cup will
carry £4150 against £3OOO last season,
and the Racing Club Handicap £2500
against £l5OO. The Telegraph and
Metropolitan Handicaps have been in-
creased from £lOOO to £l5OO. With prize-
money on such a liberal scale there is
little need for Maoriland owners to
trouble themselves about triss to Aus-
tralia, unless with a view to big betting,
coups.
* * * *
Last week the Federal Cabinet decided
it was unnecessary to continue raceless
Saturdays, and anomalies in connection
with country clubs may also be corrected.
The ban on mid-week racing is to re-
main. It cannot be.claimed that, as a
help to the war effort, raceless Saturdays
achieved anything. The restriction on
State and inter-State transport of horses
is something owners would also like to
see lifted at an early date, but unfor-
tunately N.S.W. coal troubles seem likely
to stand in the way.
* " * * *
It is possible that England .will have
another raceless winter. After a meeting
of the National Hunt Committee in July
it was announced that, unless warranted
by great improvement in the war situa-
tion, winter jumping fixtures were im-
probable. Things have improved, but, in
view of preparations for heavy fighting
during the next few months, the racing
position continues uncertain.
* * * *
It might not be a bad idea for the
Owners and Trainers’ Association to
adopt a “code of ethics.” This principally
with the idea of checking the activities
of any trainer who may be disposed to
pay much greater attention to the track
doings of other trainers’ teams than his
own. It is unnecessary to go into the
why and wherefore of such interest.
* * * *
The Arlington Classic Stakes, one of
America’s most valuable three-year-old
races, was run at Washington Park this
year, and was won by Slide Rule, whose
owner received $53,450 (about £A16,250).
The total value of the race was $72,000
(£A21,900). The time for the mile and
a quarter was 2.4 f, and, as usual in
American middle-distance races, the fast
early pace caused slowing down at the
end, the final two furlongs taking 27|.
* * * ♦
American champion Whirlaway cele-
brated his fifth birthday in July, and his
owner, Warren Wright, paid the old-time
vaudeville artist, J. E. Howard, $lOOO
—subsequently increasing it to slsoo—
visit his Calumet Stables, Kentucky,
in order to sing “Happy Birthday, Dear
Whirlaway.” Whirlaway whinnied in
appreciation. It was a big function,
Wright’s friends coming from every-
where. It would be difficult to imagine
an Australian owner being so carried
away by the deeds of any horse to the
extent of paying $l5OO to have “Happy
Birthday” sung to it.
Miscellaneous.
Winner of all his six professional fights,
Stan Wilkes showed promise of becom-
ing another Patrick by the way he
knocked out Jimmy Dundee at Leich-
hardt. Dundee, a veteran ring general,
used his guile and extra weight (6|lb.) to
advantage, and had Wilkes on the retreat
for three rounds. But Wilkes began the
fourth with a right to the chin. Two
others dropped Dundee for “six” and
“seven,” and a fourth knocked him.
Two promising young middleweights,
Jackie Marr, from Melbourne, and Max
Cameron, were seen in a rousing mill at
Sydney Stadium. A straight left won a
well-earned decision for Max, but Marr,
a protege of Ambrose Palmer, pleased
the crowd mightily with his showing. In
another 12-rounder Young Jack Day,
outboxed by Bill Hebberd, tried to get
even by butting, and was disqualified in
the eighth.
FOR RANDWICK.
(Before acceptances.)
By "PILOT.”
Breeders’ Plate: Majesty, 1 ;
Shannon, 2 ; Felcrag, 3.
Trial Stakes: Abydos, 1 ; Betza,
2 ; Royal Result, 3.
Craven Plate: Moorland, 1 ;
Tribal, 2; Yaralla or Katanga, 3.
Shorts: Gold Salute, 1 ; Hesione,
2 ; Panchio, 3.
Clibborn Stakes: War Eagle, 1 ;
Mayfowl, 2 ; MacArthur, 3.
Squatters’ Handicap: Moonda-
rewa, 1 ; Lambeth, 2 ; Lord Neith
or Grand Fils, 3.


Women’s Letters
From Sydney
Supreme photography gives the exhibi-
tion in the Blaxland Galleries the fascina-
tion of horror. The pictures show the
blitz on London in 1940. Here against
columns and walls of flame roaring to
the night skies pigmy man matched his
courage and his skill. Together they
overtopped the flames, so that under the
photograph of St. Paul’s runs the proud
caption: “And Britain Stands.”
These fire-fighters and N.E.S. workers
stir the pulse to a beat that Homer’s
might have known when he sang of the
Greek heroes. In every window and
doorway belching fire they knew death
waited for them; in every tottering
skeleton of stone and beam. But with
British calm and endurance they carried
on with the job of rescuing the trapped
victim, of disinterring the lifeless men
and women who a few hours before
had been their neighbors. These photo-
graphs are a human document, showing
how the men and women of London
threw their bodies between the city
ways, the fashionable ( West End, the
historic buildings, and destruction. One
touching picture shows the King and
Queen standing among N.E.S. workers in
a blitzed area. The caption reads: “The
King and Queen who stayed.”
Following on Sydney’s Eleanor Roose
velt week came a Dorothy Tangney
week. Dorothy is the Commonwealth’s
first woman Senator, and women’s
societies and organisations vied with one
another in showering her with the
bouquets of complimentary speech, the
confetti of congratulation. Perhaps she
put the last touch of colored icing on the
cake of her popularity when she de-
clared herself all for pensions for
spinsters. The Girl in the Flat Opposite is
very pleased about this. She says it will
help to pay the taxation put on the un-
married woman without dependants by
an unfeeling Government.
It must be confessed that most women
who did not get invited to the receptions
or lunches in honor of the Senator were
more curious about her looks than her
political views. She is small and slim,
but by no means attenuated—what Barrie
might have called “a cosy little woman.”
Her skin is good, her eyes bright and
blue, and her hair brown. When making
speech at the party given in her honor by
Mayoress Bartley she spoke with extreme
rapidity, and covered a field almost as
big as Australia itself. Members of the
N.C.W. rallied in great force at the
Y.W.C.A. to offer felicitations. A not-
so-happy appointment with the dentist
cost the Senator two of her nice teeth.
Youth and middle-age are crowding out
the Theatre Royal to see the current half-
past five matinee, “White Cargo.” This
is the play that, as far as Australia was
concerned, made Leon Gordon’s name.
People connected with the theatre still
talk of his performance as Witzel, the
domineering manager of the plantation
who has stuck this particular hell for
seven years and intends to stick it an-
other three, because each year’s service
means shares in the company. Arundel
Nixon now plays the part. “White Cargo”
is played in one set with practically no
furniture, but lots of whisky.
The only lady in the cast, Tondeleyo,
has a change of sarong and bracelets for
each appearance. Consciously or uncon-
sciously, after the curtain had fallen on
a tense scene between Tondeleyo and
newly-arrived Englishman Langford, the
orchestra provided appropriate music in
“The Rajah of Bhong” and “Under the
Deodar.” But where on that horizon
you’d have found a brass gong, an
elephant or a spreading tree goodness
alone knows. Strangely enough the dere-
lict old doctor (Ben Lewin), as far as
a group of very young theatregoers was
concerned, shared interest equally with
Witzel, Langford and Tondeleyo.
Mrs. Bertie Kelly’s remarks, when
opening St. Vincent’s Hospital Fete, about
the perambulator in these days of diffi-
cult transport being so often used to
bring home the greengroceries remind
of a lullaby the Girl in the Flat Opposite
sings, to Wurlitzer organ accompani-
ment :
O happy, happy marriage
That’s borne a baby carriage,
Where Dorises and Reggies
Can softly coo and crow.
The handy little carriage
Puts vitamins in marriage.
It comes home stacked with veggies
Whene’er the larder’s low.
It comes home stacked with veggies,
And perhaps a bottle-o!
Everybody there agreed with Mrs.
Kelly when she said that if the prams
were occupied by babies instead of meat
and vegetables it would be a far better
“"8 for Australia The fair was to
help the matemit Y hospital St. Vincent S
is p i anning to bui i d immediately the war
is £ ver ith a gift of £lo ,ooq a piece of
i and neighboring St. Vincent’s has been
bought, and over £lOOO is already in hand
£or f urn i s bing and equipment. Judging
b eager buyers on Friday afternoon, a
few more hundreds shou i d be totted up
on lhe credit side _ There was a jam sta]i
stacked with iridescent lure. There were
cuddly elephants and bunnies and even
dolls on the toy stall, and some really
good small pieces among the antiques.
From De lungra last week writer Harry
Tj gbe sen t word of his approaching mar-
riage Doris Stanger-Leathes. During
the last war Miss Stanger-Leathes worked
at the Empire club at Port Sa id with her
gran dmother, Dame Alice Chisholm,
._ ’ .
Mavis Curtam > shown m this photo-
fraph b Y Norton Trevaire, is known to
Melbourne and Sydney cinema audi-
ences. Mavis (lately she became the wife
of Staff-Sergeant Bennett) has raised her
mezzo-soprano voice in the Regent and
Capitol theatres in Melbourne, and has
become so popular with listeners that she
is now in Sydney entertaining audiences
at the Regent at two sessions every day.
The Assembly Hall vibrated with Red
Crossers’ exultation when at the annual
meeting of the society deputy-chairman
for this State A. L. Blythe announced
that over one million pounds had been
raised in N. S. Wales during the year
ending last June. Red Cross services for
the 12 months had claimed £767,791.
more than twice the amount spent in the
previous year ; £410,000 had been sent to
national headquarters for prisoners of
war and general purposes. The prisoners
of war street adoption plan and the
general p.o.w. appeals had been responded
to in magnificent fashion. Altogether the
report and balance sheet show that the
care of the soldier returning from this
war and the soldier of 1914-J8 who still
needs it will not be overlooked.
A hopeful message was that given by
Dudley Turner, ’chairman of national
headquarters. He told of the prepara-
tion of a book which will point the way
for Red Cross work in post-war recon-
struction. He put forward the view that
no other body would be able to give
greater assistance in civilian relief in the
distressed countries, the Red Cross having
a personnel of trained men and women.
Lady Wakehurst, president of the N.S.W.
Division, had praise for the rehabilita-
tion and the blood-transfusion services.
Chairman Wilfrid Johnson was absent
from the meeting owing to illness.
Everything was in miniature in the
flower composition arranged by Mrs.
Darsow for the Lyceum Club’s floral
afternoon. This replaced the usual yearly
flower show, and was even more charm-
ful to the gaze. Mrs. Darsow’s ebony-
topped table was set about with tiny and
delicate china bowl and dish, each one
dressed with blossom suitable to its size.
It was a decoration fit for Titania’s table.
Included was a fir-tree not more than
two inches in height, and dominating the
whole was a bouquet in a small white
glaze urn, as cool and dispassionate-
looking as a Victorian deb.
Mrs. Waterhouse’s arrangement of pink
camellias might have been subject for
a lyric. Mrs. A. G. Thomas supplied
rosy sweet peas and rhododendron to the
room’s splendors. President Mrs. John
Metcalf was smart in grey tweeds ; so
was Dame Mary Gilmore, receiving con-
gratulations for securing a corner in the
Domain where the memory of Australia’s
poets will flourish in a green felicity.
Frank Clewlow, of the A.8.C., was the
only male in an assemblage of women
writers last Thursday. He was the
speaker at the W.W.’s lunch, and his
theme was the radio play. Frank was
amusing and exhilarating, and even those
who disagreed with him admitted his
viewpoint was always spirited and force-
fully expressed.
Two G. and S. actresses were among
the lunchers: Vinia de Loitte (Comtesse
de Vilme-Hautmont) and Evelyn Gardi-
ner. Vipia moved the vote of thanks.
The president introduced the speaker.
Talking of verse plays Frank said;
“If we had only discovered Douglas
Stewart’s The Fire on the Snow we would
have justified ourselves.”
From Melbourne
Allied dos have given this city a chance
to get the low-down on the far-famed
cooking of Mittel-Europa. The glowing
accounts homing travellers used to give
of some dish that they really couldn’t
adequately describe usually turned out
to mean some savory affair of the
spaghetti-and-sauce or stuffed-meat-balls
type. Very good in their way, no doubt,
but nothing for a land like Australia
flowing with steaks and fruit to get ex-
cited about. The luncheon counters at
Greek or Yugoslav, etc., booths are
always resounding with the astonished
cries of those who find old culinary
friends lurking under exotic names. A
gem of this kind was the report from
Soviet Friendship League Fair that there
was a lunchtime rush on paroshkis. In-
vestigation convicted paroshkis of being
just meat pies.
' Show Day was just a blank in the week,
with the smell of pigs and fertiliser pro-
ducing nostalgia in those with sentimental
memories of life on the farm. Show Week
should be outed till war ends, of course,
but it seems a pity that a Saturday can’t
be chosen for the one-day fixture. What
an opportunity would be offered to
patriotic fund-collecting organisations
to cash in with stalls and booths, raffles
and competitions!
Etta ‘Bernard’s attractive contralto was
a feature of the performance of Elgar’s
“Dream of Gerontius” on Saturday
night. Since returning home she’s been
heard at quite a number of operatic and
concert shows, and is well known to
radio listeners. National Theatre opera
is her particular interest. In private life
she is Mrs. Serle, with an R.A.F. hus-
band in the Middle East. Home-coming
was chiefly to bring daughter Averil, aged
si, away from London bombings. Early
in her career in the English singing
world Etta was a protegee of Clara Butt,
Athol Shmith made this picture of the
singer.
Hunting enthusiasts who’ve had their
favorite sport curtailed by war were
jumping the hurdles in the good cause
of p.o.w. funds at the Brighton Patriotic
Society’s gymkhana on Saturday. The
atmosphere of horse and jodhpurs and
rural good cheer always attracts the city-
dweller, and affairs like this bring in
funds on a surprising scale. Last year’s
similar show made £14,000 in one sunny
afternoon, and it’s hoped that this year’s
total will be as good or better." From'
the spectators’ point of view it was good
fun to be standing around in horsy
surroundings, eating hot dogs arid
gambling on spinning wheels at 3d. a
time.
Mrs. Smsinthopsis, which being inter-
preted by the experts is “fat-tailed
pouched mouse,” received a surprise visit
and a lot of attention from Victorian
naturalists last week. Apparently this
little lady has a much larger family than
even her prolific species usually can
muster, and some observer had reported
her as a very rare sort of mouse indeed
that isn’t found here. Field naturalists
who visited her under a stone near Gee-
long were much edified and made learned
observations to the daily press on the sub-
ject. They said, inter alia, that these little
field mice must not be confused with
those that inhabit houses and pilfer
cheese.
A performance of “The Dream of
Gerontius” marked the 90th birthday of
the Melb. Phil. Handel’s “Messiah” was
its first public performance at Christmas
of the year of foundation. A far cry
from present-day Town Hall grandeur
was the place of that concert —the
Mechanics’ Hall in Russell-street. Printed
in the programme were instructions to
Melbourne’s musical to “set carriages
down with horses’ heads towards Russell-
street and take up with heads towards
Swanston-street.” And members of the
audience, having set their hands to the
plough, so to speak, were not expected
to weaken: “Patrons must remain in
their seats till the end of the perform-
ance.”
When proceeds of the Dutch dancers’
Red Cross matinee were totted it was
found that the stall organised by the
Dutch community in the theatre foyer
had contributed no less than £223, which
must be something of a record for one
stall for such a brief period. Of course
the stock was very attractive, including
some most delectable toys made by
wounded men of the Netherlands services
who are in hospital here.
Dr. Lorna Kiel, who was married on
Friday at Melb. Grammar School
chapel, chose classically-draped cream
satin for her formal bridal array. Bride-
groom, Major William King, A.1.F., is
on leave from up north. Dr. Lorna Kiel,
who is the daughter of Dr. and Mrs.
Magnus Kiel, of Malvern, graduated at
Melb. Uni. two years ago. Major King
is a Melb. Uni. medical grad, of slightly
earlier vintage. He is the only son of
E. W. King, of Orrong-road, Toorak, and
the late Mrs. King.
“Craftsman,” with its associations of
solid workmanship and traditional
mysteries, is the label that Mrs. Hudson
Eastwood, exhibitor at Myer Mural Hall
of water-color paintings and china pieces,
likes best to apply to herself. Her painted
china has been done with all the “tricks
of the trade” that only skilled workers in
Britain’s good china factories are up to,
and it looks very effective. She delights
in reproducing bits from Old Masters,
not creative art, perhaps, but a very
appealing means of decoration. Exhibi-
tion is for Red Cross funds. Christmas-
card versions of the paintings are sold,
too.
Plans are brewing for the Common-
wealth Bank staff’s Spring Fair on a most
ambitious scale. Good causes to benefit
include Red Cross, Legacy Club and Red
Shield units. After the usual buyings and
sellings for which fairs exist the evening
will be rounded off by a dance and
cabaret show. Tivoli artists will give the
stage show, and the light-footed can trip
it for 3s. a ticket. Secretary is Betty
Thorpe.
Old Trinity Women’s annual meeting
day on October 9 isn’t to bring the time-
honored dinner this year, staff shortage
and war economy ruling it out. Instead,
Edith Purnell, .recently returned from
India, will give a talk, and supper will
be a pay-as-you-go affair for the benefit
of the Women of the University Patriotic
Fund and the Lady Huntingfield
Memorial. Edith Purnell’s main Indian
interests are centred in Hyderabad,
where she worked with the Indian Girl
Guide movement.
Items not usually much considered in
home-building are the making of a library
and the application of basic art prin-
ciples. Both are to be represented in the
exhibition which will feature the work
done by students of the homecraft
course at Tay Creggan, centre of the
Grail movement, on October 16. Gar-
dening is another craft that the future
housewife is prepared for during the six
months of the course. The number of
lucky lasses who can be accommodated
to do the course at one time is 30, but
the influence of such training goes beyond
the actual students to families and friends.
Representing the very young in the
painting fraternity, though they’re all
veteran students of the Gallery school,
Elizabeth Paterson, Phyllis Waterhouse
and Arthur Read are exhibiting at the
Velasquez Galleries. The show was
opened by Esther Paterson (Elizabeth
Paterson’s aunt). The three painters are
all doing war jobs.
A controversy is going on between
those who think that pictures shouldn’t
be bought in war-time and those who
think that art should go on and artists
should be given an opportunity to earn a
living. The art patron says to the
painter: “I really feel I should put my
money into the war loan instead of buy-
ing your picture.” Retorts the painter:
“You buy my picture and let me put the
money in the war loan.”


In time of dire need, Pyrox
engineers, in collaboration with
the ceramic experts of Dray-
ton-Pyrox Refractories, are
producing urgently required
spark plugs independently of
vulnerable overseas supplies.
PYROX
SPARK PLUGS
ALL-AUSTRALIAN.
AND BETTER FOR THAT
PYROX PROPRIETARY, LIMITED, 18 Albion Street, Sydney.
YOU COULD HAVE A BATHROOM
LIKE THIS
iii
ss
Mi
S 5*
SSs
miii
■a
gssM
IH
MS— ■
Think of the improvements
which could be effected in your bathroom by Masonite
Temprlile . . . the board which resembles tiling but
which goes on the wall in sheets . . . which takes any
finish, is waterproof and easy to keep clean. After the
war . . . this could be one of the things you can do
with your savings. Just now, of course, the Masonite
hoards are only meeting Service requirements.
PLAN FOR 1T...
SA VE FOR IT*. .
AND BUILD IT WITH
d
TEMPERED PRESDWOOD .. . . PRESDWOOD
TEMPRTILE . . . . QUARTRBOARD DE LUXE
Manufactured by MASONITE CORPORATION (AUST.) LTD. from wood fibre.
DISTRIBUTORS
THE COLONIAL SUGAR REFINING CO. LTD.
(Building Materials Division)
SYDNEY . . . MELBOURNE . . . BRISBANE . . . ADELAIDE . . . PERTH
♦INVEST YOUR SAVINGS IN WAR BONDS FOR POST-WAR USE
MAI 3-43
SMOKE-OH!
“He took one look at the man approaching
and then dined through the window.”
—“Daily Mirror.”
For the sake of his digestion let’s hope
the glass wasn’t shattered.
“Fascists Threw Ink When Mussolini Fell.”
— “D.T.”
So did all the famous correspondents
who knew what had happened to him.
•F *l*
Trial and Temptation.
As temptation struggled against prin-
ciple, Connie bit her lips indecisively.
Here was the man she loved above all
others asking her to take part in a
swipdle! And she an honest girl occupy-
ing a position of trust.
The temptation was strong, but she
knew that if the crime were discovered
there would be dire consequences for her.
And even if it remained unknown there
was always her conscience. No, she could
not do it. She had never been guilty of
such a thing before, and she was not
going to start now —not even for the man
she loved.
So Connie the tram conductress shook
her head and said firmly to her boy-
friend “No, I’m sorry, Ten, but you’ll
have to pay your fare. Come on —tup-
pence.”
Nat.
*l* -}• *l* *l*
“Egg Pulp ‘Declared.’ ” — “S. M. Herald:”
Bacon seems to have been put into
“solitary.”
•J* •&
“She claimed that on several occasions her
husband had come home so intoxicated that
he fell asleep in the garden.”
—Divorce evidence.
No doubt he woke up feeling seedy.
“One of the women arrested at the night club
was described as ‘a hot number.’ ” — “D.T.”
Very appropriately, she was lumbered
to the cooler.
❖
What a dreadful thing it is to discover
that you’ve been roped in by a woman
who has a tongue like a lash!
“Taxi Drivers Called Up.”
Driven into the ranks.
Reality.
If things are not as they appear,
Who knows what things may really be ?
For then the distant may be near.
And folk on land may be at sea„
While yonder pots of foaming beer
Perchance are just illusory.
We two, if this be really so.
Need consolation. Down they go.
T. W. NATHAN.
Cruelty to Mayors.
He paused to tell a friend about
A home-town boy’s success —
A pal they’d both considered dumb
Was now a mayor, no less;
His chain of office, collar, too.
Was mentioned to impress.
“A chain and collar!” one exclaimed;
“For these we’d have no use.
We also have a mayor, but, then,
We let him go round loose!”
N. A. EVANS.
A New Amenity.
My invitation for the gang to come
over and hear me tell Maria off brought
a great gathering and plenty of beer in
spite of the shortage. The boys said that
I had better wet my whistle before I
started so as to acquire some Dutch
courage, so we all had one or two. Pos-
sibly three.
Then I started to tell Maria just what
I thought of her and her family. There
was no punch-pulling, either, I told her
I had stood enough of all of them,
describing her nagging and other charac-
teristics scathingly. My declaration that
in future she could do her own blasted
washing-up brought loud cheers and
another round of drinks.
Getting into my stride, I told Maria
all the things that I wasn’t going to stand
in the future. I intended to be boss in
my own house; if she didn’t like it she
could get out. We boasted that we lived
in a free country, yet my freedom hereto-
fore had been interfered with by a woman
who thought a new hat meant more than
human happiness. That tyranny was now
ended.
The boys enjoyed themselves as much
as I did. They were viciously telling off
their own wives. Their applause was
sincere and spontaneous, and so was the
way they dished out the beer.
It was really a great pity that Maria
should have come home just as the en-
joyment was reaching its zenith.
The party had to break up ; and Maria
spent what was left of the night talking
about, inter alia, the way I filled her
house with beer-swilling hogs directly her
back was turned.
Still, I feel better, somehow. And the
boys have decided that whenever the
wife of any of us goes away for a holi-
day we shall gather at his home and hear
the lucky chap telling his wife off. The
“Get It Off Your Chest Club” promises
to be a great success.
H. M.
Teasing.
“Many times have involved marriage tangles
set a problem for the deep thinker.”
—Sydney “Sun.”
Of minor problems there’s a host,
But I’ll bet you a quid it
Is this that puzzles husbands most —
They wonder why they did it!
PERCY.
Sweet Conceit.'
“The subject that is of most interest to young
people of both sexes is themselves.”
— “Woman.”
True enough. Knew one young fellow
of eighteen whose chief ambition on
Tuesday was to make more spectacular
films than the famous director Rudolf
Van Hick III, and on Wednesday to
knock a double-century before lunch
against England after taking eight wickets
for 11 runs. With all the self-assurance
in the world he was convinced that both
feats could be performed with ridiculous
ease, but by Thursday a simplified plan
for scaling Everest without bearers in five
days had claimed his versatile attention
and nothing came of either.
As a matter of fact, this young fellow
was so wrapped-up in himself that un-
interesting people like polar explorers,
pioneer aviators and world-jenowned
authors and scientists bored him painfully
and, abruptly terminating his apprentice-
ship at the Warrigal Windmill Works on
Friday, he retired to write his autobio-
graphy. After deciding on the title and
45 minutes of pencil-chewing he ran out
of copy. That afternoon he discovered
that by backing the favorite in the first
race and doubling-up on the favorite in
the second, and so on, a colossal fortune
could be amassed in a few weeks.
On Saturday the remainder of his capi-
tal of £3 went west on Sweet and Low
in the Maiden Purse, and on Monday he
asked for and got his job back.
Yes, I’ll be frank—it was I,
P. M.
SERVICE DEPARTMENT.
Wants.
Journalist, returned Second A.1.F., competent
to write on land topics, requires position on
country paper, north-west N. S. Wales pre-
ferred. Refs. —3389.
To buy Nos. 2 and 3 of Hutchinson s
Pictorial Encyclopaedia. —33BB.
To buy back numbers of “Rudder,” “Yacht-
ing and Motor-boating” and similar periodicals.
—3362.
To buy Edward Harrington’s Boundary Bend
and Shaw Neilson Memorial Volume of Aus-
tralian Verse. Good price for good copies.—
3390.
Information Sought.
I am 20 and have had no previous experience
of the sea. What chance have lof a career in
the merchant navy after the war?
In view of your age and inexperience the
only place open to you would be a trimmer’s.
What is “spark timing variation” as applied
to the internal-combustion engine?
At its full speed the engine is running so fast
that the crankpin and the piston have travelled
quite an appreciable distance between the pass-
ing of the spark and the time that the explosion
begins to take full effect. Consequently the
higher the speed the earlier the spark should
occur in the cylinder. The contact-maker con-
sists of two main parts, the one rotating with
the camshaft, the other fixed. The fixed part
can be made so that it can be rocked slightly
so that the fixed and rotating parts may make
contact earlier or later as required by the speed
of the engine, thus achieving variable timing.
(1) Best method of repolishing leather belt
which has commenced to scale through disuse ?
(2) Origin of the term “Shell” as applied to a
form or class in some colleges?
(1) In an old pot melt over low heat one
pint of neatsfoot oil, one cup of raw linseed
oil and half-pound of beef fat. Stir well
and, when quite fluid, add half a cup
of castor oil. Soak strap in water and
soft soap, wipe and apply dressing when
nearly dry. Leave for two days, give two
dressings and, when dry, polish with shoe polish.
(2) At some English public schools the form
between fifth and sixth is known as “the
shell.” The term originated at Westminster
School, where that form was taught in a shell-
shaped apse.
(1) Did Griffo ever win the world’s feather-
weight championship? (2) What was his real
name ?
(1) Griffo stopped Billy Murphy in 22 rounds
at Sydney Amateur Gymnastic Club in 1891,
after Murphy had beaten Ike O’Neill Weir in
14 rounds at San Francisco on January 13,
1890. As Murphy was presented with the
Richard K. Fox diamond belt, emblematic of
the world’s featherweight championship, when
he beat Weir, Australians claimed Griffo won
that title by defeating Murphy. Overseas
authorities, however, never recognised Griffo
as a world champion. (2) Albert Griffiths.
Brief Answers.
P.8.E.: Address of authoress of We of the
Never Never is Kilmaurs, Manningtree-road,
Hawthorn, Victoria 8.K.H.: There is only
one correct answer —a father looking at a
picture of his son... .A.W.C.; Mr. and Mrs.
Rolleston, King-street, Sydney, remove hairs
electrically... .F.G.W.: No chance H.G.:
Distance from Maitland to Morpeth is approxi-
mately five miles by road and nine miles by
river.


THE OTHER FELLOW'S MIND
The contributor placed first is paid
4Jd. per line; all others 2|d. per line.
Writers v. Readers
To me, as an oid reviewer, this ad-
mitted lack of our own demand for our
own Australian novels seems to come
from two causes.
(1) Candidly, the high-class writers
don’t take the trouble to be really inter-
esting. They are too long—eloquent, may-
be, but heavy. One reads them possibly
from a sense of duty, possibly to get the
story (and more than possibly with some
skipping). We have plenty of material
for essential plots ; I have heard Edmund
Barclay’s very long radio serial “As Ye
Sow,” which goes through several genera-
tions, twice, with rapt attention. But in
that case there was no superfluous ver-
biage to work through. Where are our
present writers who can make you read
every line with sheer interest, as with
—to take widely differing examples—
Arthur Adams (in his Grocer Greatheart
manner), Stevenson, Anstey, Buchan, lan
Hay, Wodehouse, Jepson, O. Henry, Jean
Curlewis, Anthony Hope (earlier man-
ner) and Richard Harding Davis?
(2) Our city life, in the educated sec-
tion, is strangely disregarded. Nearly
every Australian story soon drops into
dialect. Dad and Dave, or Blokes,
whether sentimental or not, are all right;
but surely Australia doesn’t consist en-
tirely of such? Surely there is room now
for tragedy, or comedy, or straight drama
among the careers and the families of
bankers or professional men, among the
miscellaneous life of any business block?
I suppose it is because Australian cities
are really not yet numerous enough ; so
that the scene must be soon identified,
and, after that, the writer fears that the
reader might imagine each character to
be somebody’s portrait. London is saved
from all this by its size, America by its
multitude of cities.
What Australian fiction lacks just now
is the story that is both (a) readable,
and (b) appealing to the educated reader,
whether of this or of other countries.—
S. Talbot Smith (S.A.).
Young Writers Ignored
I am a young writer. Naturally every
young writer must expect dozens of re-
jections for every item he has published,
but in N. S. Wales only The Bulletin
ever gives any sort of criticism of our
work. Every other paper sends the usual,
and rather ridiculous, “The Editor re-
grets’” rejection slip. At my age it is
encouraging even to be told that one’s
work is lousy—it shows someone took the
trouble to read it —but if it’s just neg-
ligible one is tempted to commit suicide.
Australian papers ought to try to buy
Australian stories. But how can an un-
known Australian compete with widely
syndicated Bromfields and Steinbecks?
We may write just as well as they do,
and in our hands and ours alone lies the
power to make Australia one of the great-
est cultural nations of the world. But as
long as readers are willing to read over-
seas writings, which, by the way, can be
bought dirt cheap for Australian publi-
cation, then many a young Australian
must go ignored and hungry.— April
McKee-Wright (N.S.W.).
A.I.F. and Militia
The letters (B. 15/9/’43) on this sub-
ject were very interesting, and it is nice
to see you publish those that tick you
off. However, as an old Digger I should
like to have “M.S.” (Tas.) the other side
of a bank and me with a Mills bomb
when he says “A soldier who is willing
to risk his life overseas is the very one
who should do so.” That theory is so
scandalous that the writer should be
asked to apologise for it. Kill off the
patriots and let those who skulk behind
flourish in plenty is the theory of
“M.S.” No wonder he failed to give his
full name. He says your paper makes
him tired. He makes me sick.
“Mercator” is not much better. He
deals in half-truths, and his reasoning is
half-baked to the extent of the limitation
imposed by the Curtin Government.
Even though 99 p.c. of the militia volun-
teered for the A.1.F., the conscript
nations of the world would still believe
that our national policy is selfish and
half-hearted.
On this point the external view of our
national policy is far more important
than the internal understanding of its
workings. I do, however, agree with
“Mercator” regarding the formation of
further divisions. We have at present
enough men to form a dozen divisions,
so why confine ourselves to three? We
have not even followed the example of
the South Africans and the British, with
reg'ard to our Eighth Division, in quickly
re-forming the South African Division
lost at Tobruk and the 51st Highland
Division lost in France. — N. V. Wallace
(S.A.).
R.S.L. and Militia
At the R.S.S.A.I.L.A. State Congress
in Sydney one of the outstanding ques-
tions was the eligibility of the militia for
membership of the league.
It was resolved, having regard to the
fact that so many thousands of the A.I.F.
are now overseas and that they will be
the future members and leaders of the
league, that when they return to Aus-
tralia consideration must first be given to
their wishes in this matter. The league
fully realises that the militia has given
gallant war service for Australia. A
plebiscite taken by the N.S.W. branch of
the league determined by a large majority
to refer the whole question for further
consideration to the Federal Congress at
Hobart on November 15. —W. C. Allen,
State councillor (on behalf of the State
president, Colonel Hyman, N.S.W.).
Football and War
The Bulletin (8/9/’43) does a good
job in debunking war-time football idols.
“A packet of cigarettes, please."
On a recent Saturday, between races, I
was forced to listen to a radio commen-
tator floundering for adjectives in praise
of these hefty participants. Remember-
ing our long periods in the line in 1914-
18 for lack of help I couldn’t echo his
enthusiasm. To learn that “ ‘Chiller’
Bog-in is a game and dashing player”
suggests a better place for “Chiller.” Ex-
ceptional physique of this type isn’t an
essential at the benches of protected war-
time industries, but it is a highly appreci-
ated asset in New Guinea today.— Dial
Sight (Vic.).
League and Union
Lauding the Sydney Rugby League and
attacking the Rugby Union, “R.8.L.” (B.
29/9/’43) refers to a League club which
“boasts over 100 members in uniform,”
and to another which lost one of its
players (honor to his memory!) in New
Guinea.
The St. George Union club, a small
concern compared with the average
League club, has contributed 150 volun-
teers to the forces, among them 90 to
the A.I.F. and 46 to the R.A.A.F. It
has had four players killed on service,
among them an international, Flight-
Sergeant Mick Clifford, whose brother
has since shared his fate; also, seven St.
George lads have been wounded and eight
are prisoners of war. Other Union clubs
have even more striking records. Western
Suburbs’ total of enlistments nears 300,
and the club has a long list of killed,
wounded and missing. Rus Kelly and
Aboud were knocked in Libya ; Schultze
and Ramali, another international, are
prisoners of war, and two other players
went dowil with the Centaur. But all the
Union clubs have made honorable con-
tributions to the services, and all have
found it difficult to field teams, being very
unlucky in this respect compared with
professional organisations.
The huge attendances at R.L. games
are no criterion of the superiority of the
League game or of its capacity to “draw”
as a sport. Many sturdy fellows went to
the Cricket Ground because they could
get beer there and bet with the hundreds
of bookmakers who infested the place.
Booze and betting have no place in the
Rugby Union scheme of things. The
Union is strictly an amateur code. The
members of a premiership side received
not even a blazer last season. It says
a lot for the Rugby Union spirit when
service men journeyed hundreds of miles
for a game at their own expense. Espe-
daily when so many Leaguers followed
the money and got it—more than ever
before, and that in a season when the
enemy stood on Australian territory.—
Peter Piper (N.S.W.).
Anti-British?
“Descendant of an English Officer”
(B. 22/9/’43) has chosen to be personal
and offensive. I feel entitled to reply
with the gloves off. He invokes the class
war and inveighs against the officer class.
1 should like to know where we would
all stand today but for this class. Men
.. att- i .t . tt *.• t „
of the A.IF know that British officers
are not la-d.-da or baijove types but first-
rate men and soldiers who look after the
We l £ n re .? £ * e m ,a n U ” der h fi F f°™ mand '.
All the world knows that Australia
breeds fine men, but there are also many
who are grossly ignorant and parochial
in their outlook These like your
correspondent, confuse self-assertiveness
with democracy, rudeness with inde-
pendence and vulgar boasting with
initiative. A little more discipline would
do these gentry a great deal of good. No
doubt they have their ideals, but these
did not inspire much confidence during
the recent election campaign.
Aggressive, insular isolationists do
much harm and will not make conditions
easier for their country in the difficult
testing time which lies ahead.
Another matter; besides English
settlers there is a large body of Irish who
follow their anti-English bent still. —
Pommy (S.A.).
Radio Programmes
By all means let us have more Scottish
songs broadcast, as “J.E.D.” says (B.
11/8/’43), but what about English songs?
I am a Devonian, and I have never heard
“Tarrystock Goozy Vair” on any pro-
gramme. My friend, a Yorkie, says he
has never heard “On Ilkla Moor” and
other favorite North Country songs on
any broadcast. And other parts of Eng-
land have their songs, too, no doubt.
We could so easily miss the undiluted
tripe put over every day, and also the
few tunes which have been worked to
death, in favor of a few good Eng-
lish songs, dialect ditties preferred.—
Devonian (Q.).
Proposed “Film Service”
I recently read of the arrival in Aus-
tralia of one M. George Bobrov, who is
here “to establish a film service between
Australia and Russia,” and will be
attached to the Russian Legation.
Who arranged for Mr. Bobrov to visit
Australia? Is he here in an official
capacity, and, if so, who in Australia
sanctioned his visit? it seems likely that
he has come with propaganda films. A
film service between the Soviet Union
and Australia will be a one-way traffic.
When will the authorities in Australia
be alive to the ever-increasing inroads of
Communism in its many disguises, and
decide to take the necessary steps to see
that Australia is freed from these foreign
“isms,” thereby ensuring that post-war
Australia will be for Australians, even as
Russia is for Russians? Weekly
Reader (N.S.W.).
Stamps for Social Betterment
In October of each year the M.L. Gov-
ernment issues one or two designs of
health stamps, sold at a premium of Id.
over and above their postage value. The
surcharge goes to a fund for the main-
tenance of children’s health camps.
Actually the Government gains more
in revenue than the surplus penny, be-
cause thousands of these stamps are ab-
sorbed unused by stamp collectors—clear
profit seeing that no postal service has
to be given for them. Sales rose to about
the million mark each year until the war
upset the market. In 1940 the figures
were down to 284,900, but last year rose
again to 720,000.
This year Maoriland expects to make
a clean-up. Stamp collectors have a weak-
ness for triangular stamps, and the public
generally has a sentimental affection for
the Princesses Elizabeth and Margaret
Rose. The M.L. postal chiefs have been
inspired to exploit both these factors;
the two 1943 health stamps, to be issued
on October 1, will be triangular and will
portray the princesses. The sales target
is six million sets, but if they achieve
half of this £25,000 will come in very
handy.
Incidentally, Australia can claim to
have pioneered the charity-stamp stunt.
In 1897, at the time of Queen Victoria’s
jubilee, N. S. Wales issued two large
stamps at Is. and 2s. 6d. each. Their
postage value was only Id. and 2jd., the
balance going to a fund to establish
a home for consumptives. —H. S. T.
(N.S.W.).
Wattle or Mimosa?
“H.S.T.” (B. l/9/’43) holds “Banjo”
Paterson guilty of giving our wattle a
most un-Australian name —mimosa.
Probably he was not referring to wattle
at all.
I don’t know the Snowy River coun-
try ; but if “Banjo” had been writing of
the downs in north-west Queensland he
would most certainly have meant mimosa
and not wattle! The mimosa is a shrub,
low and drab dark-green in color. It
grows along bore drains or where “soaks”
exist in hollows. It has very thorny
branches, a golden bloom deeper in color
than most wattles and a perfume stronger
and sweeter than that of any species of
our national emblem I have seen. The
thorns are often poisonous when em-
bedded in the flesh, a|id dogs develop sore
feet on this account. —M. M. O’Brien
(Q-).
Answers to Correspondents
Name and address must appear on the MS. No
liability is undertaken re contributions voluntarily
submitted; and no MS. will be returned unless
stamps accompany. MS. should be addressed to
the Editor.
The Muse aroused :
J.C.R.:
Sing
Not to me, ye beastly little birds.
Of spring!
Zephyrs warm and colors gay,
Avaunt! Away!
Languorous-limbed maidens clad in bathing suit,
Get oot!
Burgeoning leaf, bud, blossom, frond and bell.
To !
Come, come, ye wintry winds, snow and frost!
Let me remember
Dark tales of murder and opportunities lost.
It is September,
And I shall have absolutely no clothing
Coupons to buy summer clothes with
Until November!
.... M.D.: Poet in city pines for country—an
old theme, and always open to the objection
that the poet can go on the wallaby if he really
wants t 0... .M.M.: Both sentimental R.H.;
Smoothly done, but full of echoes, archaisms
and inversions M.J.D.: What’s the use of
writing a poem in which you say “I dare not
try” to write one? G. 8.: You’d never
say “Such the prophetic mission you bestow”
in prose. Think twice before you allow your-
self poetic license L.C.P.: Don’t make your
verses out of a string of rhetorical questions.
... .P.R.: Poem asking Anna if she remembers
the tango, the moon and the poet might score
with some radio station where the crooner has
his lair... .S.K.C.: Pleasant; but the verse is
thin, the expression conventional P.H.:
Nearly... .J.0’8.: A flicker in all of them.,
J.W.E.: Try again with something not marred
by (a) politics and ( b ) compound adjectives....
J.T.: Magazinish.... V.C.: Tl 7 a daily
8.H.: Beware of the wow ending... .H.F.H.:
Sound enough parable, but not a story
J.K.: “A horrible gurgle came from the thing
that cowered in the corner.” It’s that story
in the w.p.b.
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC)
CORRESPONDENTS.
P.G.: The gent, bulges in weird places, and
his diminutive lady friend has feet that would
arouse a cop’s envy... .R. 5.8.: A church maga-
zine might like that illustrated snappy backchat
between sozzled verger and the peculiar-looking
curate


V
iism
M
■
111 I x % ||p| 1 > |IS
1.. . ’ V <. •;
899
Hi
'V' <>,
■ :
•• -V-:
m
?#
RI
>
111
K
-
nr
H
ik
i
m-
■
BH
%r
' v :•■ ■
m
ti
■ *otel
«iil
, V '
■fsim
Necessities and urgencies of war demand that peacetime
industry be tuned up to meet the requirements of the Navy,
the Army, and the Air Force.
Industries, therefore, that were producing almost exclusively
for the civilian population have turned their factories and mills
into production plants for wartime necessities for the Armed
Forces.
One of the outstanding examples of this wartime change-over is
YARRA FALLS LTD.,
which has produced for the Fighting Forces millions of
pounds’ weight of yarns and millions of yards of cloth, and
will continue to do so till victory is achieved.
YARRA FALLS •
Manufacturers of Textiles and Fabrics
ABBOTSFORD, VICTORIA, AUSTRALIA
