

*
The Bulletin
“The Bulletin,” Vol. 64. No. 3323
Wednesday, October 20, 1943
J*rjce 6d.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newsoaoer.
Seppelts
STIRLING.
OLD BULWARK OF THE NORTH.
S TIRLING CASTLE shares 'vitn that of Edinburgh the fame of
being the finest and most reman tic in all Scotland, this favorite
residence of the Stuart kings has a history that goes back to the first
century. On its site, Agricola, Roman Consul for Britain,
caused a fort to be erected here in tiaVte to its dominance of the
valley of the Forth. The Castle itself is of unknown age, but from
the time of the death here of Alexander I, in 1124, until the Union
of the Crowns in 1603, Stirling Castle was closely bound with the
fortunes of the Scottish monarchs. John Balliol, whose name was
given to a college in Oxford, stood here against Edward I in 1296,
but was overcome in a sweeping conquest that took Berwick,
Edinburgh and Perth as well. Under William Wallace, the Castle
was retaken by the Scots, and in subsequent years ownership of the
Castle passed between the .Scots and the English many times, until
Bannockburn was fought near by, in the year 1314, In the later
struggle between the king and the nobles, Stirling Castle was the
scene of the murder of Douglas by James 11.
“Old Stirlin’. . .
I love dice more-
For the grey relics of thy martial towers,
Thy mouldering palaces and ramparts hoar,
Throned on the granite pile that grimly lowers.
Memorial of the time when hostile powers
Sd often proved thy steadfast patriot worth ;
I love thy very name, old bulwark of the North.’’
—Hogg.
Stirling and its countryside is heir to the memory ot Bruce and
Wallace and Mary, Queen of Scots, names that still possess the
power to quicken the pulse of Scots wherever they may be.


*vs
This Book FREE to YOU!
STOTT’S CORRESPONDENCE COLLEGE ,
100 Russell Street, Melbourne,
CUT HERE AND MAIL
Please send, without obligation, your Hew Free
Booklet explaining how to Write for Profit, at
advertised in the Sydney “Bulletin.”
My Name
My Address
S.B. 143
AGE
The Red Page
POETRY IS SELLING!
An extract from a letter from Oldham,
Beddome and Meredith, of Hobart, dis-
tributors of Joan Kinmont’s This, My
Son, a narrative poem about the child-
hood, youth and manhood of an Aus-
tralian airman: —
The edition of 10,000 was published last
Wednesday and is sold out today.
There are, of course, special reasons
for the success of This, My Son. Pos-
sibly inspired by Alice Duer Miller’s
The White Cliffs , it is “popular” verse
for the times, appealing to senti-
ment and aimed at the enormous audi-
ence which is unaware that “dawn” does
not rhyme with “mourn.”
There is such a shortage of books in
Australia that any book, of whatever
quality, usually sells out on publication.
There is a special demand for war books.
And since This, My Son, regarded as
popular verse, is capably done, there is
no reason why it should not sell another
ten thousand, or as many more ten thou-
sands as can be printed.
But no matter how short was the supply
of books, Australians two or three years
ago would not have bought a volume of
verse. The best of our poets used to sell
about 200 copies, and popular verse fared
no better. Most Australian verse-writers
simply didn’t get published, and nobody
read them if they did. Now their books
are being printed, bought and read. In-
stead of having to search for poetry in
the hairy recesses of second-hand book-
shops, you can actually buy books of
verse on railway stalls.
Very likely you’ll find Sapper Bert
Beros’s The Fuzzy Wuzzy Angels (F. H.
Johnston Publishing Co., Sydney) at Wyn-
yard station, or even at the ferry ter-
minus at Manly. Beros is a Canadian
who joined the A.T.F., and has fought in
the Middle East and in New Guinea. He
doesn’t write poetry, but he does write
good, rough Digger verse with occasion-
ally a nice touch of landscape painting
in the ballad tradition: —
When it's springtime on the Clarence,
There the jacarandas bloom,
When it’s springtime on the Clarence
I pray that I’ll be home—
To hear the butcher's chortle,
The jackass laugh again,
When it’s springtime on the Clarence
And there's feather on the cane,
Paul Buddee, whose Stand To and
Other War Poems has been published by
Elmsdale Publications, Sydney, is a soldier
poet (Ninth Division) who flies higher
than Beros attempts. The title-piece,
which was first published in The Bulle-
tin, is a really fine poem, deeply moving:
Stand to, old man . . . Stand to.
In the line you were quick at awaking.
But now you lie quiet and so still and so cold
—God in heaven my heart’s near to breaking.
Stand to, old man . . . Stand to.
Come rouse up, old chap, it is dawning.
For I know you’ll rouse up to the sound of
my voice
(Or they’ll take you away in the morning).
But from a writer who can do as well as
this one expects more than from a
balladist. And Buddee does not do so
well as he should. Technical weakness
is indicated on the first page with that
morning-dawning rhyme, and throughout
the book there are lapses so serious
(archaisms such as the use of “thou” ;
cliches such as “beauteous spot”) that
Stand To, though greatly to be valued as
soldier verse, cannot rank high as poetry.
No verse writer, it should perhaps be
made clear, is going to be dismissed from
serious consideration merely because he
rhymes “dawn” and “morn” or uses the
archaic “thou.” The Queenslander
Vrepont rhymes “claw” and
“war” — which is monstrous — but
Vrepont is most certainly a poet to be
taken seriously. Buddee’s “dawning” and
“morning” can be forgotten in the
poignance of “Stand To” as a whole.
And when it is accompanied by the
extraordinary sensitivity of “mothy”
nobody is going to quarrel with the
“thine” in this “Lullaby” from John
Rowland’s Poems and Sonnets (privately
published by the author): —
May Eve be mothy on thine eyes
And in thine eyes
Sweet dreams arise.
Yet how much more alive is the poetry
*tae jtradjmonal pocti-
cisms,-*Rowland* 4 jfclrover in a
time of drought and records in natural
language:—
So his eyes are on sheep, Lheirs on the ground,
Dust-seared, dust-blinded, distended.
I see them, before the sun, on the mound.
In a vision of sunlight, gold, dust-blended,
The drover and horse in a gold frieze, black-set,
And radiant gold clouds on the sheep as they
run;
They pass, and where was transformation where
they met
Is only the vacant arras of scattered sun.
Too many “thous” and a poem reads
not like an original work but like an
echo of all the poems the author has
read; too many “morn-dawn” rhymes
and one knows ( a ) that the writer’s ear
is insensitive and ( b ) that he is not truly
a master of words—for it’s almost im-
possible to bring “morn” and “dawn”
into succeeding lines without redundance.
If the popular ear can’t distinguish be-
tween the sounds of “aw” and “or” that
is no excuse for the poet whose task is,
in Eliot’s phrase, “to purify the dialect of
the tribe.” The present commentator
knows one Sydney poet who not only
would shudder at the rhyming of “calm”
and “harm”—another frequent crime
against the language — but actually
manages to pronounce the “1” of “calm”
in ordinary conversation. Possibly a
gramophone record should be taken of
this phenomenon, to be broadcast over
the national network at maddeningly
frequent intervals until “1” returns to the
language.
Nevertheless, there is a place—not the
w.p.b. but deep in somebody’s heart—
for the Rubaiyat of a Modern Bachelor.
And in the same generous bosom can be
stored The New Rubaiyat by “Ame
Perdue” (printed for the author by James
Glennon Geoghegan, 402 Latrobe-street,
Melbourne). There is much more weight
to The New Rubaiyat than to the
bachelor’s amiable naughtiness ; it catches
something of Omar’s spirit. But there’s
not much excuse for any parody unless
it’s a criticism of the original. This, like
all the other parodies of Omar, is not a
criticism but an imitation. And to the
grave offence of parodying Omar, “Ame
Perdue” adds the latter-day sin of
parodying Kipling’s “If.”
Nathan F. Spielvogel — Our Gum
Trees (printed by J. Roy Stevens, Mel-
bourne) — and F. C. Francis — Crest of
the Rainbow (Hawthorn Press, Mel-
bourne) —stand out among the verse-
writers surveyed here. Although archa-
isms and inversions that would not pass
in serious poetry don’t seem to matter so
* much when the writer confines himself
to the ballad and the light song, Francis
weakens his statement when he announces
“My soul may haply find a meed of
rest.” He is strongly influenced by Shaw
Neilson, and the essence of his verse is
in the line
Life can be pleasant on the green earth.
Both Francis and Spielvogel have been
printed in The Bulletin. Spielvogel is
the stronger of the two, a balladist rarely
attempting a lyricism beyond his powers.
“My Old Bike” is typical, an example of
the Australian ballad still vigorous in its
decline: —
Swift down Bogong’s scarps we would rattle,
We scorched o’er the vast Mallee plain.
Old bike, do you mind the wild cattle
On Monaro mid thunder and rain?
You carried me safe when the bushfire
Was blist’ring your paint on the Bass.
D’ye mind when I mended the tyre
Of the bike of the Nurrongong lass?
Bad, indifferent or good, these verses
have their place in the astounding re-
nascence which, probably because war
involves a return to fundamentals, is tak-
ing place in Australian poetry. But it
would be difficult to feel greatly inter-
ested in a revival of popular verse if
good poetry were still being neglected.
The really astonishing thing is not that
This, My Son sold ten thousand copies,
but that the first edition of Brian
Vrepont’s Beyond the Claw (Angus and
Robertson) sold out on publication and
the second printing is certain to go the
same way.
It’s a point in Enid Moodie Heddle’s
favor—as it is with Lyle, Hope and
Hooton —that nowhere in Sagitta Says
(Hassell Press, Adelaide) do the con-
ventional poeticisms deaden the im-
pact of the language. Miss Heddle
may be as learned as Letters. In
“Spears Were Against Us,” her finest
poem, there are plenty of echoes —“I
won’t be ploughing any more” is Squire’s
bulldog poem; “What fish has my
eyes?” is, deliberately, no doubt, Shak-
speare ; “We won’t go droving any more”
is Byron’s “We’ll go no more a-roving”
—yet the author speaks, clearly through
it all in her own voice: —
Droving? Oh, droving,
We won’t go droving any more
But the dogs and the carts
Will take to the roads
When the season starts,
The fires show bright
At night
Through the gums
When darkness comes....
But it’s a point against Miss Heddle
that, though avoiding Tennyson’s idiom,
she speaks far too often in T. S. Eliot’s.
A great deal of her verse, moreover, is
not verse at all: simply prose cut up into
lines.
“A.W.”: The 20th annual exhibition
of the Australian Water-color Institute,
at the Education Department’s galleries,
Sydney, can boast as a backbone pictures
by such established masters of the
medium as landscapists John Eldershaw
(who has been finding congenial country-
sides in New South Wales), J. W.
Maund, G. K. Townshend and Ronald
Steuart, flower-painter Margaret Coen
and portraitist Mary Edwards, all repre-
sented by characteristic work. Out of
the ordinary are Rah Fizelle’s Italian
sketches, Norman Lindsay's whimsical
conception “Ballad of Circular Quay,
Marjorie Stewart’s beautifully decorative
“Pink Vase,” Frank Medworth’s “Sydney
Waterside” and a street scene in Mel-
bourne by P. Shillito. John Banks, that
very infrequent exhibitor who paints like
nobody else on earth, shows two figure
studies. The war is touched upon by F.
Rodriguez in “Jungle Warfare” and in
Rex Julius’s glimpse of warships off
Aden.
Rowland’s book is free from discord-
ance in rhyme, but an overdose of
archaisms and inversions (“I read in book
the words of poets wise”) makes Poems
and Sonnets, in spite of its flashes of
originality, read like an old story;
pleasant, but of slight importance to the
audience that waits for the rare book of
poetry among all the verse that is pub-
lished.
Verse—even bad verse —has its place.
One would not necessarily attempt to
discourage the writers who are writing
it, the publishers who are publishing it
or the readers who are reading it.
To damn the poet openly were wrong,
says “Lepanto” ip Quest, from the
Griffin Press, Auckland, M.L. ;
For many love to hear a noble song.
And if Lepanto’s long examination of
the conflict between science and religion,
leading to an attempted reconciliation
between Christianity and the theory of
evolution, is too archaic m manner and
measure, there will doubtless be readers
enough for its thought, Lepanto, in-
deed, is almost irresistible in defence of
his errors of style: —
The poet simply never can be bound,
Nor be depent to keep his ear to ground.
John F. Power, who has written the
Rubaiyat of a Modern Bachelor (Austra-
lasian Publishing Co. Pty., Ltd.) —
They say that marriages are made on high.
That’s true, maybe, but bachelors like I
Can only say of marriages we’ve seen
They’re more like strangleholds than .“love’s
1 sweet tic” —
is obviously a poet who “simply never
can be bound.” Nor can he be depent to
keep his ear to ground for grammatical
errors (two in this one stanza), cliches
(two) or for the information, which
should be known to the very babes in
the cradle, that all parodies of Omar are
utterly abominable.
The books of these two Persian gentle-
men are for those who like ’em. And
with them should be placed three book-
lets of verse by Robert Solway, Eulogy
on America, Wartime Journey and
Murder at 13 Haining-street (Stewart,
Lawrence, Ltd., Wellington, M.L.); A
Patch of Poems, by Marion James
(printed at St. Vincent’s Boys’ Home,
Westmead, N.S.W.); and I Live a Life of
Dreams, by Grace Perry (printed by Con-
solidated Press, Sydney).
Certainly, these three authors try seri-
ously to write poetry. But Solway’s
Revenge shall not fall on him
But on those who guzzle whisky and gin;
Marion James’s “flow’rs,” golden sunsets
and “tender blushing sproutlets”; and
the 17-year-old Grace Perry’s “fickle
fays” and “blushing roses” that “kiss the
dewy air” can’t be described as much
more than tender blushing sproutlets.
Grace Perry, the most promising of the
three, will have to find out what Ruskin
meant by the “pathetic fallacy” before
her writing can develop into a mature
expression.
A sign of the times is that Brisbane
“Meanjin Papers” (Vol. 2 ; No. 2) grows
bigger and better with every issue. Both
the poetry and the critical articles steadily
improve in quality. It lacks direction —
a magazine can’t represent the new buoy-
ancy when it has a reviewer praising
Leonard Mann’s unfortunate excursion
into depression. The Go-Getter, as “the
sort of thing I like to see written” but
direction will come. Flexmore Hudson’s
“Poetry” (No, 8) also continues to appear.
Books of genuine poetic value that
have arrived for review are: Vrepont’s
Beyond the Claw ; Quest, by Pan) Grano ;
Sagitta Says, by Enid Moodie Heddle ;
The Great A ttainder, by F. J. H. Letters ;
and an apparently untitled collection of
verses by A. D. Hope, Garry Lyle and
Harry Hooton (published by Garry Lyle,
265 Military-road, Cremorne, N.S.W.).
The nameless number by Lyle, Hope
and Hooton is an extremely lively piece
of reading, Lyle and Hope, certainly, are
genuine poets—too good, one feels, to be
bothering themselves with shocking the
bourgeois. Harry Hooton may be Walt
Whitman reincarnated, or he may be just
a sort of explosion. It will be difficult to
decide the point until the poet, who
claims to have written a poem “As Good
as Any Other Poem about the Moon,”
does in fact write a poem as good as any
other poem about the moon.
F. J. H. Letters is a surprise. A lec-
turer in classics at New England Uni-
versity College, Armidale, N.S.W., he
published some time ago an interesting
and authoritative analysis of Virgil, but
The Great Attainder (limited edition,
privately printed ; copies obtainable from
Angus and Robertson) is the first book of
his poetry encountered here. He looks
like a poet in his very first line—
Summer the colorist is gone—
and he proceeds to shower vigorous and
original phrases throughout the book: a
“volleying” lion ; “earth’s lunar dotage” ;
“The perfumed god of inexistence smiles,
The treacherous Buddha of illusive
sleep”; “And on the lake the calm of
Wordsworth broods.” “Lacrimce rerum”
becomes, in a phrase Yeats would have
liked, “Man’s multitudinous cry.”
How well Mr. Letters can write! And
how badly. Though, as has been shown,
he can find an original and natural lan-
guage when he chooses, his book as a
whole has the hand of scholarship heavy
upon it. Only an overdose of Latin could
explain his affection for the revolting
word “fulgurant.” He has “yonder ” and
“mark and “nay” and “lo” and “thous”
by the score ; he writes of “Brown Study,
sober-mantled dream” —all archaisms and
echoes. Too much letters, in short, and
not enough Letters.
Paul Grano, in the best book he has
yet published, contrives to fall often into
the archaic jargon and just as often into
the modern. He speaks of himself as
being no longer “lorn” ; “two” becomes
“twain” ; and then comes a line hot from
Hopkins, bumping with hyphens and hiss-
ing with alliteration —“Brown-dappled-
softness-swaying rest.” He writes a com-
pletely contemporary verse such as “Out
Samford Way”: —
A store where countrymen debate the news
And scandalise their friends and talk of cow
and then proceeds in “All Life Will
Beauty Fly Me” to tell his audience to
“weep not” on the day he dies. The
style is everywhere uncertain. But Quest
(Shipping Newspapers, Ltd., Brisbane)
hits as often as it misses, and when it hits
it has remarkable force: —
Hey there! Ho there!
You there on high wing,
Circling in broad sweep
The snow keep,
The ice keep,
White King, O Flame King...,
Ho there! Hey there!
Here’s meat,
Heart’s meat
King, I defy you.
A clashing, defiant, triumphant poem in
which the poet defies Life, the Flame
King, to do its worst: —
King of the silence
Where brooded creation.
Flame King, O White King,
Here is a heart.
Quest bears some resemblance to
Vrepont’s Beyond the Claw both in style
and spirit. Considerably the stronger of
the two books and far more imporlant
than any other volume surveyed here,
Beyond the Claw has much of Quest’s
uncertainty: a strange blend of archaic
and over-modern language; inexplic-
able discordances ; a curious passion for
the hyphen: and a great strength more
than atoning for all the faults. It must
be something in the Queensland cli-
mate . . .
Both in his lapses and in his virtues
Vrepont makes one think of Whitman,
Browning and Hopkins. If his lines, as
theirs do, often bump and groan with
too heavy a load, there is a splendid
sense of rugged masculinity about it all.
His early lyrics, some of which, first
published in The Bulletin, are reprinted
here, are delicately lovely; his later
poems vigorous with sinewy thought: —
God in me said, by a wild-boar sea,
“1 have done two lovely things,
Two grave and lovely things —
I have created
And I have used”;
And with profound indifference left me
Staring at the tide crumbling the cliffs,
The white-tusked sea and a sinking sun.
A set of short narrative and landscape
pieces, some of which have been reprinted
in Australian Poetry, are unique in Aus-
tralian writing, strong and vividly pic-
torial. And there is one thing that every-
body should know about Brian Vrepont:
“The Apple Tree,” a poem that is “a
dapple of sun and a smother of snow-
flake petals,” is one of the loveliest short
poems —and possibly the loveliest—ever
written in Australia.


"TRUTH IN ADVERTISING"
"THE SENIOR STORE"
/
I
<Ti
m
mmmm
6
'D
ro
OWS
»im
IV
K
5
p #****
c }
(>
C
(
y
C
£
%
G
G
kf
ic*!
L
/
/.i
W J^
KtOVO«*l
m
t
a)
239
?MS
C «P
/? J/ M
sr
m
&
<T>
jP'
(M
>y
s•***
.*r~
''
U
vy
“COLLONA” EAU DE COLOGNE ... a popular Cologne
to keep you refreshed during the hot weather. At Anthony
Horderns’. Prices 1/9, 3/3, 5/6, 9/9 and 18/
“EXOTIC” COLOGNE, blended from pure quality essential
oils. Delightfully fragrant and refreshing. At Anthony
Horderns’. Prices ......... 3/11, 7/3, 14/- and 24/6
EAU DE COLOGNE by “Jean Didier” of Paris. The rich
fragrance of this Cologne lingers with its refreshing qualities
all the day through. At Anthony Horderns’. Price .... 2/11
“RUSSIAN LEATHER” EAU DE COLOGNE, A fine
Cologne, fragrant with the French Perfume—Russian Leather
(Cuir de Russie). Presented in an attractive carton. One size
only. At Anthony Horderns’. Price 10/
Genuine EAU DE COLOGNE by “Regal.” This is a fine and
exquisite Cologne, blended from pure essential oils. At
Anthony Horderns’. Price 9/6
“LUI FARRELL” presents an attractive container filled with
a rare Cologne. Available in one size only. At Anthony
Horderns’. Price 10/6
“ICE” EAU DE COLOGNE. A quality Cologne specially
distilled and prepared to combine lasting fragrance with
refreshing coolness. At Anthony Horderns’.
Prices 1/9, 3/3, 5/6, 9/9, 18/-
0 Perfumery —Ground Floor, Pitt Street.
FAMOUS LOW PRICES
Phone: M 2401 (Day and Night)
Box 2712 C, G.P.0., Sydney


A COLLECTION OF OVER 100
DRAWINGS
BY
TED SCORFIELD
As this 68-page book will sell
out within a week, immediate
application will be necessary.
Preference will be given to
members of the Forces. Send
2/6 plus 2Jd. for postage in
B
v^i
open postal notes, which will be returned if the edition is sold out.
Address orders to:
“Mixed Grill,” Bulletin Office,
Box 252188, G.P.0., Sydney.
CIRCUS
By JAMES HACKSTON
HE was going to do something
bigger this time, something better
than the tin dish and the cradle—
he’d borrow a puddling machine
he knew of.
“A different method, Mother, and a
bigger way of getting the gold. Yes, and
pay handsomely, too.”
Mother didn’t say anything comfort-
ing, so he comforted himself. “Yes, I'll
do things properly.”
Then he rubbed his hands together
enthusiastically.
But Mother still refused to enthuse.
She had seen Father rub up too many
“fortunes” between his palms, and when
she now referred humorously to his
“muddling” machine he said “Huh! just
like a woman ; no interest in a man's
ways, means and methods of doing things.
Sijly calling it that, though ; a method
that will enable me to do so well.”
Father got the puddling machine and
again attacked his old antagonist Qne
Stump Hill, where, as he said, established
miners had always said there must be
gold—somewhere there ; One Stump Hill,
wrinkling up its ruts and crevices and
glaring from dark, forgotten shafts, and
where Father was the only miner. Even
the last Chinaman had long forsaken it.
I was interested this time, but for a
different reason from Father’s. He didn’t
know that, though, and I didn’t tell him
either. I let him think that it was the
puddling I was interested in, for once
when he had asked me what I should like
to do when I grew up—what profession
I should care to enter, law or medicine —
and I told him I’d like to be in a circus,
he sniffed and said disdainfully “Pooh!
Circus! A shiftless, hand-to-mouth life
like that?”
Mother smiled.
Yes, I wanted to be a ringmaster tread-
ing a snow-white horse round the circus
ring, a faultless, dancing horse that would
bow and bend gracefully like an actor
before the people, its polished hoofs tip-
ping the" tan like a dancer as it rocked
round and round, a band of silver bells
on its muscled chest playing an accom-
paniment to the rhythm and . grace of
its movements. I would put the shining
horse through his paces and his fine
tricks ; pull him up to statuesque poses,
pauses and stops, and then send him
wheeling again into motion as smooth
as a river flows. I saw it all; had it all
in a colored picture of a circus I'd
acquired.
A ND now Father, unknowingly, was to
be the means of my playing circus,
as in my circus picture, for he wanted
me to drive the horse that was to work
the puddling machine; the horse that
had to be driven round and round in a
circle as in a circus ring.
Yes, I would be glad to “help” him ;
and he was so pleased with my evident
enthusiasm for the “job” that he said he
would pay me. He always “paid” me
for doing his jobs.
“Of course,” he said, “it will be tedi-
ous work for yop walking round and
round in circles all day long and for
months on end, so I will pay you one
pound a week to start with.”
He waved airily. “It is easily worth
a pound a week to me, for, as you know,
the horse has to be driven and I have
to have somebody drive it.”
He looked magnificently at me. “And
I will pay you weekly and—er —from time
to time, as we prosper, I’ll increase your
wages.”
He again looked magnificently at me.
“And I should say that you will in a
while —a very short while, to be precise
—be receiving up to three, four and even
five pounds a week.”
He then said, in answer to a look from
Mother, that if a boy could do a man's
job—well, why shouldn’t a boy be paid
a man’s wages, especially when the boy’s
employer was making big money? It was
only right and just. <
Yes, so it was ; most decidedly so.
I was in such fine spirits at the thought
of secretly playing ringmaster with a real
horse that Father again misjudged my
happiness, and put it down to his
benevolent salary grant. And, being lit
up himself with his own enthusiasm for
his puddling, he made it an occasion for
mutual joy between us, and insisted on
me giving him my hand on it, which I
did sheepishly and insincerely. He wrung
it with a fervor that was evidently the
custom with employers who engaged
eager workers at handsome wages.
I now wanted to find out what kind
of horse (it was also borrowed) was to
pull the puddling machine.
I should have liked to ask if its
neck would bend like the willow, its.
muscles run like ripples; but all I asked
was its color and its name. I wanted
it to have a name that would sound fine
and noble; not a name like Nugget or
Punch. I had thought of a good name,
and when Father told me the horse was
a flea-bitten grey and that they called
him Fleabite I knew on the instant that
I couldn’t play circus with a horse with
a name like that. I’d given him the
name I’d thought of, and I hoped he
would look a bit like a horse with a
name like Cassar.
I would have asked Father what the
horse looked like, only he was wrapped
up in trying to tell Mother all about how
the puddling machine worked, so much
so that Mother got up and went out to
make a cup of tea.
When she came back and he was still
talking about it, she pretended she had
to go out again for more sugar; and
when she came back again and he was
still talking about it, she went out for
more milk and stayed out getting more
milk, leaving me to listen “enthusiasti-
cally,” as Father thought, to his en-
thusiastic talk about the puddling
machine*
WHEN I saw Fleabite I knew it was
going to be a hard job— not driving
him round the puddling machine, but
seeing him as Caesar.
However, I’d plaited a whip specially
for the occasion with a new green cracker
on it. Father said a stick would have
done just as well, but I didn’t say any-
thing. He didn’t know. How could I
be a ringmaster with just a stick?
We started off on the south bank of
One Stump Hill Creek with tier on tiej
of yellow and red mullock heaps round
us.
I had to pretend a lot to be able to see
Fleabite as 1 wanted to, but as I went
round cracking my new whip I trans-
formed him into my handsome picture-
horse of the circus, bowing" and bending
gracefully to the audience —mullock
heaps also transformed. Round and
round' we went, and how like the ring-
master in the picture was I!
And could I flick the whip as he did!
Gone were my bare feet tramping the
red dust; instead, they were in black
shining shoes tripping lightly over the
sawdust; and the dull yellow of Flea-
bite’s eyes was the flashing white of
Caesar’s.
When Father was out of hearing I’d
call “Caesar! Caesar!”
When he was within hearing I’d say
nothing. I couldn’t call Caesar Fleabite ;
it would spoil everything. So now and
then when Father would come and call
out “Get up there, Fleabite!” I wasn’t
playing.
After we'd been a short while on the
south bank Father moved the puddling
machine to the north bank.
This suited my play because it made
it look as if I belonged to a travelling
circus. Here I gave up being ringmaster
for a while and “changed” into silken
tights and balanced on one foot on
Caesar’s rump. It was fine, but Father
Saw me and informed me coldly that he
had “engaged” me to drive the horse
and that if I didn’t drive it properly he
wouldn’t “pay” me my increased wages
—when the time came.
We now moved on again ; back to the
south bank, but higher up where things,
Father said, would be better for puddling.
However, the “things” Father men-
tioned were evidently not better, for we
soon moved back to the north bank
again, but lower down. Then Fleabite
and Caesar went suddenly lame somehow,
and they couldn’t pull the puddling
machine and perform in the ring. It
took them eight days to get better, which
was bad luck for Father, for, as he told
Mother, he had expected where he was
then puddling to show at least one hun-
dred and twenty-five per cent, better re-
turns for that week. The eight days’ loss
of time had probably cost him a con-
siderable amount of gold, and but for the
mishap the week-end would have seen
him with a nice little nest-egg of gold
for her.
WHEN Fleabite and Caesar were fit
again, Father moved the puddling
away from where the one hundred and
twenty-five per cent, increase would have
been to an entirely new site, where he
said things would turn up trumps.
He then advised me that it would not
be long now before he “paid” me the
three weeks’ wages he owed me and gave
me the big increase he had promised.
On the second day here, Father not
being in sight, as I thought, I was busy
trying to persuade Caesar actually to go
down on his knees and bow to my “audi-
ence” when a shadow fell across my feet
and my angry “employer” grabbed my
whip and “sacked” me on the spot.
I retired to a near-by mullock heap
and sat down and watched my late “em-
ployer” drive the horse himself.
After I’d been sitting there a while he
roared out and asked what on earth I
meant by sitting idly on a mullock heap
wasting my time staring at him instead
of being a dutiful son and offering to
help my father.
So-I went back to my job again as a
son, in an honorary capacity, and not as
a “keen” employee at one pound a week
with a rise as soon as we prospered, and
—in the near future, to be precise—up
to three, four and even five pounds a
week.
Father kept his eye on me, too, and
was a sterner boss now I was working
for nothing than when I was “receiving”
the big wage, and I had no opportunity
to play circus any more.
Gone was the romance of the circus
ring; and Caesar was gone, too.
My transformation of Fleabite had
ended; his rippling muscles had disap-
peared ; his willowy neck had stiffened;
the proud eyes had dulled ; the bowing
and the bending ended. I saw but a plain
old working horse ; saw his straining and
sweating ; saw his heavy, plodding gait,
his old hooves and the glossy coat of my
imagination stained and grimed with the
red dust that had sprayed him.
The days were hot and sticky now and
the flies bad.
They were so bad that, to keep them
out of my eyes and mouth, I began to
whip them instead of Fleabite, and I
whipped them systematically so that they
kept moving and grew so tired of waiting
for an opening to land on me that they
settled on Fleabite instead. Then, after
I had yarded them on to Fleabite, it was
to my interest not to use the whip on
him, for, if I did, Fd disturb the whole
swarm—my flies and his flies —and
they’d join forces and come back at me.
Another thing that induced me not to
stir up Fleabite too much was that his
hooves had cut and powdered the soft
earth so that our track must have been
about a foot deep in fine red dust, which
at the least touch rose like smoke at the
cannon’s mouth. Even with our gentle
going my eyes were full of it.
Of course, in these circumstances,
Fleabite didn’t overexert himself.
His pace deteriorated ; he wasn’t pull-
jug ; and it was while we were thus crawl-
ing round on our job that Father woke
up to us and again came on the scene.
He couldn’t officially sack me this time,
or threaten to hold my wages back; all
he could do was disown me as a son
and curse himself for being my father.
Jumping into the dust he then began
to teach Fleabite how to pull a puddling
machine properly, and all I could see of
him was a dim, shadowy figure jumping
about like a marionette in a red fog. The
air was now charged with lost flies, pro-
fanity, red dust, Father and Fleabite.
| WAS very pleased next day when
1 Father discovered that the “trumps”
that were to have turned up at this site
did not turn up, and the gold of One
Stump Hill was now deep down and
puddling was really out of the question.
And I was more than pleased when
Father, who had acknowledged owner-
ship of me again, told me that there was
no need for me to hang about any more
and that I could run off home and tell
Mother that he was busy returning the
puddling machine and the horse to their
owner, and would be home later.
After tea that night, and after a long
silence, Father told Mother that the gold
up on One Stump Hill was deep down,
but Mother, who was busy sewing, did
not look up or say anything comfort-
ing, so Father again comforted himself.
“Yes, deep down ; very deep down.”
x. Then, as he could see that Mother was
not going to raise her head from the dress
she was making, or even nod in acknow-
ledgment of his words, and he could sense
that the “enthusiasm” I had previously
shown had left me and that I was not
“eager” about his new idea, he placed his
hands together, twiddled his thumbs and
addressed them.
“Yes, it’s deep down.”
Not getting enough encouragement
evidently from his two revolving thumbs,
he put them out of action and fixed his
eyes on our big black kettle hanging on
the chain in the fireplace.
He nodded convincingly at the kettle.
“The gold is in the reef at a great depth,
and I’ll have to put down a shaft; sink
a deep shaft.”
As the fire was out and the kettle un-
able to rattle its lid in acknowledgment of
this remark, or send out bursts of enthu-
siastic steam about it, he gave up con-
versing with it, and picked on a big
summer moth that was idling about the
lamp.
He gave the moth an optimistic nod.
“I’ll go down not fifty, sixty or seventy
feet as the others did —they had no heart.
I’ll go down”
But the moth left the room and went
into the kitchen and stayed there.
HT HERE was a bit of a lull now, for
J an enthusiastic miner must have some
kind of an audience, especially when he
has discovered, at last, where the gold is.
Next Father looked at his feet, but appar-
ently they were not interested.
His eyes roamed the room looking for
something to confide in.
It seemed for one moment as if he
were going to let the clock into the
know, but it had stopped and did not
invite conversation, so round and round
his eyes roamed until they fell on a
colored oleograph of the King that had
long hung on our wall.
Father now stood up to his full height
and looked bang at the King, and the
King’s steady blue eyes in the picture
looked bang back at Father, and under
their steady, attentive gaze Father said
firmly “Yes, I’ll go down a hundred feet,
if needs be.”
He must have then perceived some sign
of royal assent in those never-faltering
eyes, for he spoke up bravely now, and
confidently, but respectfully, deferentially
and thankfully as behoves a man who
confides in his King.
“Yes, a thousand feet, if necessary.”
The King’s eyes never flinched, and
Father, gathering strength, declared defi-
antly and dramatically that he would gO
down two thousand, three thousand,
four thousand feet; yes, even into the
very bowels of the earth itself.
And then Mother smiled again in the
same way as on the day when Father
said “Pooh! Circus!”


The Bulletin
Vol. 64.—N0. 3323,
Wednesday, October 20, 1943.
SWINGIN’ ALONG THE ROAD TO VICTOREE!


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper
“Australia for the White Man"
•
Directors:
H. K. Prior J. E. Webb
P. H. Prior David Adams
HEAD OFFICE: 252 George Street, Sydney:
Box 252IBB; ’Phone 87971
Victoria: Newspaper House, 247-249 Collins
Street, Melbourne.
Queensland: 239 Adelaide Street, Brisbane,
Westralia : 33 Barrack Street,■ Perth. '
New Zealand: Nathan’s Buildings lopp
G.P.0.), Wellington.
London: 1 Hare Place, 47 Fleet Street,
COAL AND CLAPTRAP.
Without coal and steel no country can
carry on an effective struggle for exis-
tence.
Throughout the war Australia has had
steel enough and some to spare, thanks
to the wise forethought and energy of
Broken Hill Proprietary, hated so much
by Communists and —at least prior to the
conferring of the Companionship of
Honor on Mr. Essington Lewis at the
instance of the profusely grateful Govern-
ment —by Labor politicians. At no time
during the war has production of coal
been sufficient to provide against all con-
tingencies. Until the European part of
it suddenly ceased to be “imperialist”
and became holy. Communists, working
through unionism and employing methods
of larrikinism, saw to that. In 1940,
when their influence was foulest, 962,801
working days were lost in N.S.W. coal-
mines, far and away the greatest number
since the 1930 strike, and output,
11,195,000 tons the previous year, only
four months of which were war months,
fell to 9,600,000 tons.
In the course of 22 months Mr. Curtin
has made many statements, some indig-
nant and some plaintive, on the coal
situation and has put forth many anti-
strike regulations, as a rule preceded by
threats and followed by parleys and
appeals. All to no purpose, as he has had
to confess at long last. Yet his first pro-
nouncement, issued when the Japanese
were overrunning Malaya and the Dutch
East Indies and bearing down on New
Guinea, went to the root of the matter:
Men who are not in the fighting forces,
and who at the same time will not work,
are as much the enemies of this country as
the directly enlisted legions of the enemy.
There was also a bit about the duty of
those directly charged with the preserva-
tion of the nation:
Any Government that allowed essential
production to suffer because men would
not work when provision existed for the
speedy settlement of disputes would be
traitorous to Australia.
And the action proposed in the first of
the litter of anti-strike regulations looked
salutary enough. Men absenting them-
selves from work without reasonable ex-
cuse were liable to be prosecuted sum-
marily and fined £lOO or sentenced to six
months’ imprisonment or both. Where
indictments were lodged and convictions
obtained, there were to be fines or im-
prisonment or both without specified
limits. The catch in it was that stop-
pages could be authorised by union com-
mittees, nor could any proceedings be
taken without their sanction. For a few
days there was a remarkable increase of
effort on the part of work-shy and rebel-
lious elements. Discovering the catch
and concluding—rightly—that a Govern-
ment which had removed the ban on
Communist organisations and publica-
tions and put their controllers in the way
of greatly increasing their strength and
influence would not tighten up the regu-
lations and enforce them, they resumed
their knavish tricks.
The “N.S.W. Industrial Gazette,” a
State Government publication, keeps a
record of “disputes,” so called, on the
coalfields. In the January-March quarter
of 1942, the most perilous period of our
history and the period in which we suf-
fered our greatest military disaster,
“working time lost” was set down as 8
per cent. “Working time” is nominally
40 hours a week, worked in five days (no
Saturday toil for N.S.W. coalminers!),
but in the case of underground men this
amounts to 30 hours or so at the face,
further reducible by holidays—one day
on full pay for every 25 days employed,
stoppages not to be calculated.
Figures of coal production for that
quarter were handed to Mr. Curtin. He
had in the meantime issued another regu-
lation empowering the Coal Commis-
sioner to cancel the exemption from mili-
tary service of every person who refused
or failed to attend work without reason-
able excuse. It fell stillborn from the
printing press, as did all the regulations
which succeeded it and all the other issues
of paper bearing on coal stoppages one
solemnly entered into by union leaders,
whose general president is a Communist,
was called “a code.” In that first quarter,
Mr. Curtin said, in horrified accents, there
had been a production loss of 664,000
tons of N.S.W. coal: 283,000 tons be-
cause of strikes, 201,000 tons because of
absenteeism and 180,000 tons as a result
of the pensioning of miners at 60 —a mad
scheme of the N.S.W. Labor Government,
introduced when the military position
was at its worst and when, with U-boats
and Jap subs, sinking tankers at a great
rate, it seemed possible that Australia
might not get another gallon of petrol
from abroad.
The strikes, the Prime Minister pro-
ceeded, had been mostly frivolous. Not
more than 20 per cent, of them related
to “matters between owners and men,”
and he had only found two cases in
which provocative tactics on the part of
owners were alleged. His Minister qf
Labor nevertheless blamed the owners for
all the stoppages, representing them as
soulless oppressors piling up profits (in
point of fact, shares in 12 of the 13 coal
companies listed on the Stock Exchange
could be bought a long way under par),
and the miners as overworked serfs
goaded into striking by wrongs.
The Coal Commissioner was goaded
by this fustian into taking the public
into his confidence.
I am sick and tired of the reasons given
for mines being idle day after day. Coal is
urgently needed, and unless we produce
more we shall have the greatest difficulty in
keeping up supplies to our troops and in
continuing the production of the aircraft,
guns and munitions on which their lives
and perhaps the life of every Australian
depend. The coal industry can easily do
it if the employees work anything like full
time.
Mr. Mighell’s opinion was borne out
by results for the latter part of the year.
Although it began so badly, output
was round 12,000,000 tons. Not because
of any increase in the working week or
of any undue exertion in any quarter,
but because there were fewer stoppages
and less absenteeism. “Working time
lost” came down to 5.6 per cent, in
October, 6.2 per cent, in November and
3.7 p.c. in December.
There are mines which have no evil
record of stoppages, mines in which the
men give their employers and the nation
a square deal. If all miners did so as a
matter of patriotic duty an annual pro-
duction of 15,000,000 tons could be
reached consistently.
The spurt in production ended with
that fateful year. In the first three
months of 1943 “working time lost” was
reckoned by the “Industrial Gazette” at
10.5 per cent. In April it was 13.1 per
cent.; in May 11.2 per cent.; in June
there was a fall to 4.3 per cent. Because
the workstoppers had realised the error
of their ways? No ; because the political
situation necessitated a show of diligence,
however brief. As Mr. Beasley put it to
4 gathering of union bosses, “the Federal
elections are coming on, and if we are to
win strikes must stop ; I appeal to you
to give us a go! ” The miners’ leaders
joined in the election campaigning with
characteristically untrustworthy figures
and promises. Mr. Wells, the Communist
president, asserted in a newspaper adver-
tisement that “in 1940 the Australian
miner was producing 551 tons per man ;
in 1941 he stepped it up to 678 tons ; in
1942 he beat the miners of all nations (!)
with 715 tons per man,” and “this year
was even better.” The concluding vaunt
was: “Under Curtin’s leadership the
miner will never let Australia down! ”
After presumably arming himself with
the figures; for two post-election months,
and after listening to desperate appeals
for coal from all quarters (one of the
multitude came from the chairman of
Victoria’s State Rivers and Water Supply,
who said that unless fuel was provided
promptly for the Red Cliffs power station,
which, under direction of the Common-
wealth coal authorities, had almost ex-
hausted its reserve stocks, £1,000,000
worth of dried and citrus fruits would be
lost), Mr. Curtin had’ to announce in effect
that the miner, under his Communist
leadership, had let Australia down.
Not as an effect of union larrikinism,
but because the miners have been work-
ing under a terrific strain since rearma-
ment began in 1939 arid the strain is tell-
ing, the coal position is a worry in
Britain also. With the ever-increasing re-
quirements and the diminishing efficiency
of miners too old to go into the forces,
as too many were allowed to do, it has
been proposed as a desperate expedient
to conscript hoys of 16 for mine work.
Nevertheless, on Mr. Churchill’s high
authority “only 750,000 tons were lost
by strikes in the last twelve months out of
more than 200,000,000 tons.” Almost at
the same time Mr. Curtin was saying that
N.S.W. output for the year to September
18 —the year that was to be “even
better” according to the Communist
Wells —had dropped to 8,271,317 tons,
production loss for the year being esti-
mated at 2,501,702 tons, of which strikes
would account for 1,041,400 tons and
absenteeism for 1,033,600 tons.
As a result, the Government had de-
cided upon “the removal of malcontents
and irresponsibles with bad attendance
records: youths of military age and taxi-
drivers, s.p, bookmakers, billiard-room
proprietors, dog-trainers and the like.”
Such fellows “have engaged as miners in
order to obtain protection, and they not
only readily agree to strike but sometimes
make the first move,” whereupon it is a
case of “one out, all out.” Meanwhile,
consumption would* have to be cut by
40,000 tons a week, chiefly at the expense
of railways, industry (each 12,500 tons),
gasworks and electric-light stations.
These measures, so chilling to a public
stuffed with the notion that it has a
strong Government, came as a sequel
to another lot of parleys, at which
demands ranging from “nationalisation”
to special income-tax concessions were
presented (meanwhile there were strikes
against daylight-saving and meat-ration-
ing), and Mr. Curtin at first spoke soothing
sentences, though he soon changed. One
demand was for the closing of the mines
for nine days at Christmas. Mr. Curtin
granted it. For this he is now sorry,
and Mr. Wells, it now appears, is “fed up
with Mr. Curtin.” All Australians who
are not parties to the Communist con-
spiracy are fed up with Communist
blatherskites, and some of them are won-
dering whether the latest plague of
strikes in which Communists are con-
cerned (scene of one of the wickedest is
a N.S.W. “defence project”) is not part
of the unspeakable Second-Front-in-
Europe campaign. The Prime Minister’s
own words come back to memory here:
“Men or women who hold up produc-
tion are just as much traitors to Aus-
tralia as deserters in the face of the
enemy” ; but they still get away with it.
Uncle and Others.
When he was lately in America, Mr.
Churchill suggested that Britain and
the United States should enter into
permanent relations, and Mr. Roosevelt
spoke of Britain and. Canada and the
United States being “members of the
same family.” Substantially the same
suggestion that Mr. Churchill made was
put forth by a conference of Republican
leaders dealing with U.S. post-war policy.
Governor Dewey being one of them.
It is taken for granted by many others
that such a relationship is an inevit-
able part of the shape of things to
come, despite occasional sharp criticis-
ing of J. Bull, such as that uttered by the
Senators recently in Australia. The
Senators also criticised Russia ; all round
there is much more doubt regarding
future successful collaboration with the
Soviet than with Britain. Many hold that
British-American collaboration alone will
not be enough to keep the world quiet
for very long.
In the welter of hopeful planning that
is now going on in America, two specially
significant articles appear in the latest
“Reader’s Digest” to reach Australia.
One, by Max Eastman, is typical of
extensive outspoken criticism provoked
by such essays in adulation as the Willkie
book, the Davies film and general Com-
munist propaganda in the U.S.A. The
other is a condensation of a book by
Walter Lippmann.
What both these writers have to say is
of interest to Australians,' as is all else
that is being written and spoken in
America in the same field, for,’whatever
else may happen, a continuation of happy
relations with America will be vital to
Australia, as to New Zealand.
Mr. Lippmann’s theme is that America
has been for 40 years “disastrously un-
prepared to wage war or to make peace” ;
that it faces dire national peril if its
people do not now “find and unite on a
sound and realistic foreign policy.” He
holds that America’s primary interest in
Europe is identical with the primary in-
terest of both Britain and Russia there —
that no European Power should emerge
which is capable of aggression outside
the continent of Europe. Preventing the
rise of a “conquering Power” in Europe,
Mr. Lippmann argues, is as much a first
interest of America as it is of either
Britain or Russia, to each of which it is
a matter of life and death.
Turning to Asia, Mr. Lippmann points
out that the U.S.A. has since 1899 been
committed to fostering the development
of China, the emergence of which as a
Great Power he expects to be the “most
probable consequence” of the war in
the Pacific. That emergence will “change
the whole order of power” for the Philip-
pines, the Indies, Australasia, Malaya and
India. “We cannot know now what a
great Chinese Power in this region of the
world portends.” All that Americans, at
least, can do is to assume that such a
China will regard the security of the
United States as a vital interest, as Ameri-
cans have hitherto regarded China’s
security.
As for Australia, it might be hoped
that a policy which Australians hold
dear, but which neither the United States
nor China recognises, may then somehow
still be maintained. In Sydney on Sep-
tember 8 Dr. Hsu Mo, Chinese Minister
to Australia, said that after the war there
would probably be no large-scale migra-
tion of Chinese to other countries, but
“this does not mean that China accepts
the White Australia policy.”
Granted the eventual crushing into un-
conditional surrender of both Germany
and Japan, Mr. Lippmann considers the
future combination of America, Britain
and Russia to be “the irreducible mini-
mum guarantee of the security of each
of them, and the only condition under
which it is possible even to begin to estab-
lish any wider order of security.” This
particular view is so widely expressed by
others in America that, if they really
represent American public opinion, such
a “nuclear alliance,” as Mr. Lippman
calls it, might be the only kind in which
America will collaborate at all. The
alternative would be a return by the
U.S.A. to shaky isolationism, made all the
more shaky by improvements in bombers.
To the “nuclear alliance.. . .founded
on vital interest which has been tested and
proved in the course of generations,”
Mr. Lippmann would add China as it be-
came a great State. But these countries, he
insists, “cannot remain allies and part-
ners unless they respect the liberties of
other peoples and use their power, sepa-
rately and in combination, to maintain
liberty through law.”
As examples, Mr. Lippmann points
out that an American policy of aggran-
disement at the expense of the British
Empire would make it necessary for
Britain to look for security in some com-
bination which thwarted America, while
a British policy which “refused to recog-
nise changes in the colonial and imperial
system” would raise up insurgent forces
in Asia, the Middle East and Africa:
Britain could not count on American sup-
port in resisting and almost certainly
would have to count on Russian and
Chinese encouragement of such forces.
As for Russia, a policy of aggrandise-
ment in Europe “would inexorably be
regarded as such a threat to Britain and
America that they would begin to encour-
age the nations which resisted Russia.”
A like policy against China would “dis-
rupt Russian-American relations.” Simi-
larly, a Chinese policy of aggrandisement
in India, Malaya, Indo-China and the
Netherlands Indies would have to be
opposed by Britain, America, Australia,
N.Z., France and the Netherlands.
The fissures opened by any of these
tendencies would soon become a breach ;
this would lead to the forming of other
combinations ; and so the world would be
headed for another war. It is to be in-
ferred from Mr. Lippmann’s view—and
the views of the many Americans think-
ing like him —that another world war
will be inevitable unless continuance of
the. “nuclear alliance” is realised.
There can be no such continuance, Mr.
Eastman argues in effect, without a thor-
ough and genuine understanding of
Russia—one “based on facts, not on pro-
paganda.” Mr. Eastman pays tribute to
“the heroic fight of the Russian armies
against Hitler’s military machine”: this
“incomparable feat of arms gave us
[Americans] our chance to prepare.” He
believes, too, that “collaboration with a
powerful Russia will be a main preoccu-
pation of living Americans for a long
time to come,” but “if we want the Rus-
sians to respect us, we must let them
know that we are not dupes.” This leads
to the core of Mr. Eastman’s theme —
that “the stubborn resistance of the Rus-
sians no more justifies Communism than
the stupendous assault of the Germans
justified Nazism.”
It is one thing, says Mr. Eastman, to
be a little indiscriminatirig in our praise
of the Soviet, since Russia “fights so
brilliantly beside us” ; it is another to
imagine that the Russian leader is a
mollycoddle who can be softsoaped into
doing what cold calculation does not re-
commend. As a general attitude towards
,Russia, he suggests: —
Give all possible military help; offer
unbounded praise to the heroism of her
people and her soldiers; extend every
courtesy to her Government. But, if we
believe in democracy, be dignified and
intelligent—not muddled and mawkish.
To those in the Kremlin, says Mr. East-
man, “American gullibility is only one
more evidence of ‘bourgeois decadence. ”
The Russians, he points out, set up no
organisations of “Friends of the United
States.” They do not celebrate the holi-
days of other countries, make films glori-
fying other countries’ ideology or call
mass meetings to extol the military vic-
tories of their allies and associates. They
do not permit agents of democracy to
propagate the overthrow of the Commu-
nist society ; and “their news-stands and
bookshops are filled to overflowing with
denunciations of our way of life.”
Collaboration with Russia cannqt be
achieved, declares Mr. Eastman, ‘while
Russians attack our civilisation hammer
and tongs, and we meekly exclaim, as
our Vice-President recently did, that we
must not ‘double-cross’ Russia. The
closer we work with Russia the more
vital it is, both to our national self-
interest and the interest of world-democ-
racy, that we quit kidding ourselves and
face the facts.”
Mr. Eastman quoting staggering
figures on concentration camps, secret


police, execution without trial and much
else of the kind—submits that if we con-
fuse “learning all about Russia with
learning the propaganda slogans fed to
us by those who, in blind worship or
Russia, are plotting to destroy democracy,
democracy will go down. He holds, in
short, that there can never be effective
collaboration between democratic coun-
tries and Russia unless the fact that the
democratic and Communist systems of
government are as far apart as the Poles
is understood and admitted, and unless
“friends of Russia” and their kin cease
to glorify the Soviet system in the pre-
tence that they are glorifying the heroism
of the Russians when their patent object
is cheapening and belittling democracy.
He advocates as a counter-measure the
banning of the Communist conspiracy,
along with the other “isms” that have the
overthrow of democracy as their leading
aim.
It looks as if genuine collaboration, on
the lines of Mr. Lippmann’s “nuclear
alliance,” is not likely to be achieved
merely by wishing for it. Certainly it will
never be achieved if “friends of the
Soviet” in democratic countries carry their
activities to the point of making feeling
regarding Communism any stronger than
it is already in the United States, or, for
that matter, in Britain.
PLAIN ENGLISH
Short But Not Sweet.
After a dozen sittings, mostly brief, the
new Parliament has gone into retreat. It
may be summoned again this year “if the
coal-shortage measures prove ineffective,”
but present intentions are to give it £
long holiday, wholly unwarranted and
undeserved. Senators were informed that
unless the said occasion arose they- need
not come back to Canberra till the end
of January.
A Budget providing for an expendi-
ture of £715,000,000 was passed without
critical examination of many question-
able items in the Budget papers. The
chaos on the food front was the subject
of an indignant speech by Mr. Anthony,
who as the representative of Richmond
(N.S.W.) may be presumed to have
special knowledge, but he got little sup-
port. Dame Enid Lyons made a first
speech full of human feeling and sound
sense. Mr. Cameron brought down the
House with a description of Mr. Fadden
as “the Lady Jane Grey of Australian
politics.” Objecting to Mr. Scully read-
ing a speech and remarking, when over-
ruled, that “Rafferty” was “in the chair,”
he was “sentenced to the rising.” Dr.
Evatt gave another of his informative
and suggestive reviews of foreign affairs,
but it was not debated.
And there was a sort-of-a-kind of debate
on the Brisbane Line, in which Mr. Ward
repeated the charges from which he had
run away, and mocked at the absence of
Mr. Menzies and Mr. Spender. Mr.
Curtin himself was missing most of the
time. The undertaking he gave when re-
lieving Mr. Ward of his Ministerial duties
(“The reasons which caused me to direct
you to abstain from the administration of
your office continue, and will continue
until the Parliament has dealt with the
matter involved”) has seemingly been
abandoned by mutual consent.
That is all that can be remembered of
the first session of the Seventeenth Par-
liament. It has made a very bad start.
Pay for Wharf Work.
Ordinary justice suggests that soldiers
who have to do wharf work should not
have to do it for soldiers’ pay.
It was said a while back that the
shipping companies actually paid the rul-
ing rates in these cases, and that, though
the individual soldier got only his army
pay, the balance went to canteen, com-
forts or some such funds.
This would be pretty rough on the
individual soldier thus employed. It
would mean that he was being called on
to contribute to these funds much more
than he would be drawing for himself at
the time.
A few months back in America a hot
turn in the weather made all the tomatoes
in an extensive tomato-growing area
ripen at once. U.S. soldiers sent to help
save the harvest were paid the ruling
rates for such work, plus their army pay.
The same should apply here, especially
in regard to members of the A.I.F. or
R.A.A.F., who, though they are volun-
teers, have in the past had to do wharf
work whether they liked it or not. If
that policy has been altered the Minister
for the Army should make the fact pub-
lic. If it hasn’t, he should say why not.
5 “
Essays in "Nationalisation."
Sections of the N.S.W. Auditor-General’s
report for the 1942-43 twelvemonth
should be read in conjunction with the
published demand of blatherskites and
won’t-works for the “nationalisation” of
the N.S.W. coalmines.
There is already a State coalmine—at
Lithgow. Visiting it on the last lap of
his famous tour of the coalfields, Mr.
Ward found all the employees idle, and’
on another occasion they were scolded
for idleness by Mr. Badly, the State
Minister for Mines—looking up from a
heap of files relating to the furtherance
of that “good and useful sport” dog-
racing, and the achievement for Sydney
of a new racing club and a new race-
course, “the greatest in the world.”
To June 30 the Treasury found
£579,436 for the mine out of “loan capi-
tal.” Nevertheless capital debt charges
are calculated on “an amount of £310,000,
following a valuation of the mine prop-
erty by the Valuer-General in 1933.” In
spite of this concession of £12,000 or so
p.a., which has to be met by taxpayers, the
mine under Labor Government control
showed losses of £16,537 in 1941-42 and
of £10,824 in 1942-43. The Auditor-
General notes that “the reduction in capi-
tal indebtedness has yet to be proclaimed
in the manner prescribed” by a Labor
measure passed in 1942.
The taxpayers’ watchdog (unfortu-
nately he is not allowed to bite) also
refers to an experiment in charcoal pro-
duction! This ought to be a winner
everywhere, and no doubt it is under free
enterprise, the initial outlay being small
and the market profitable and practically
unlimited ; but not under “nationalisa-
tion” of the N.S.W. brand.
To June 30, 1943, the A.-G. notes, the
N.S.W. Government laid out £235,790
(whew!) on “the establishment and work-
ing of a Charcoal Production Undertak-
ing.” The dismal story proceeds:
A statement prepared as at December 31,
1942, based on an inventory and valua-
tion of assets and liabilities, disclosed
a deficiency of £109,883. A trading and
profit and loss account for the period
January 1 to June 30, 1943, shows a
further deficiency of £20,687. To June 30,
1943, the total losses —derived from a
writing down of .the value of capital assets
and from trading—have thus amounted to
£130,571.
If N.S.W. Labor “nationalisers” had the
running of the De Beers diamond mines,
Kimberley would go broke.
In the Desperate Days.
Information of particular interest to
Australians and Americans serving with
them was disclosed by General Marshall
in his war report (Sept. 8).
The Philippines, the Chief of Staff
wrote, could not be held because in the
summer of 1941 the United States had
“only 28 partly-equipped infantry divi-
sions, a new armored force of four divi-
sions, two cavalry divisions and an air
force of 209 incomplete squadrons.” And
“Hawaii always had first call,” while it
became “imperative” that the Panama
Canal and Alaska should have priority,
and that there should be U.S. bases m
Newfoundland and the Caribbean.
Not until July, 1941, could modern
material in sizable lots be sent to the
Philippines. By the first week in Novem-
ber, 35 Flying Fortresses had been flown
to the Philippines via Midway and Wake,
Rabaul, Moresby or Darwin; 48 others
could not arrive before Pearl Harbor be-
cause of a gap in deliveries and adverse
winds. ...
By October, 20,000 reinforcements with
supplies, had been assembled for the Philip-
pines. Eleven transports were scheduled
to sail between November 21 and Decem-
ber 9, and twelve cargo vessels by January
6. Six of the troopships and nine ot the
cargo vessels were at sea when word of the
Pearl Harbor attack was received. Four
troopships returned to San Francisco; the
other two made Brisbane after fifteen days
of silence.
All but one of the cargo vessels reached
friendly ports, the exception being cap-
tured. Another of the transports, loaded
with P-40 fighter ’planes and munitions,
sailed into Los Angeles on December 23
with its cargo intact.
In effect, General MacArthur “was left
no alternative but that of a delaying
action” ; but “the delay gained enabled
men and materials to be dispatched to
Australia, New Caledonia and other
Pacific islands on the Japanese time-
table.” And the timetable itself was
presently to be wrecked.
BALM IN GILEAD.
“Haf I no vriends? Am I by efferybody deserted?”
“No, mein Fuehrer—ve schtill haf dose schtrikers in New South Vales."


FOURTH LIBERTY LOAN
£125,000,000
BACK THE ATTACK
SPACE WITH COMPLIMENTS
THE ECONOMY SAUCE
SAUCE
ALL-AUSTRALIAN
AND BETTER FOR THAT
iH
>si
■'“S.
\ i
r
*'* s ■
J
y
.
«i
PYROX
INVEST IN THE
THE ONLY
ALL-AUSTRALIAN
SPARK PLUG
LIBERTY LOAM
POLITICAL POINTS
The Brisbane Line business was
brought up on the last day of a short and
very unsatisfactory session. There were
only a few U.A.P. members in the House,
and Menzies was not among them. Ward
jeered at his absence and that of Spender,
and seized the opportunity to say every-
thing he wasn’t game to say at the Lowe
inquiry. As Cameron put it, he “repeated
every dreadful statement, every insult,
branded as with a hot iron.” The mem-
ber for Barker added, with particular
reference to Menzies, Spender and
Hughes;
I wonder if they will continue to sit on
the Advisory War Council. I think they
will. There is no Ward insult that they
would not willingly bear.
Fadden also spoke with some spirit. After
“a scene of confusion,” caused by the
unexplained disappearance of the P.M.,
the debate was adjourned at his instance,
a right previously refused to the justly
indignant Earle Page.
That nasty fellow Cameron again:
It tickled me pink to see the number of
members of this Parliament who took up
permanent residence in Canberra after the
Japanese struck. Previously you could not
have held them here with a battleship’s
anchor.
So Canberra has —or had —attractions for
Prominent Politicians.
The Newcastle and Port Kembla steel-
works have been held up for 24 hours
ostensibly to protest against a State In-
dustrial Commission award and to
demand Arbitration Act amendments, but
actually to display the power of union
bosses, with Thornton’s Red Racket in
the forefront of the picture, as usual. The
instigators know full well that “slopwork
meetings” can’t upset awards, but little
things like that don’t worry union bosses.
Nor, apparently, did the “slopwork meet-
ing” worry the Curtin Government, which
didn’t say a word about it, though the
thing was a defiance of the Government,
an affront to the nation and an indication
that Second-Front-in-Europe audacity has
no limits.
From Moscow to the New York
“Times” (Sept. 9):
The official Russian press came out to-
day with the claim that the Red Army de-
served the lion’s share of the credit for
Italy’s capitulation. “Izvestia” said: “It
is because of defeats on the Soviet front,
in which all contingents of picked Italian
troops were exterminated.”
Almost as good as Comrade Rupe Lock-
wood’s explanation (N.S.W. Aid Russia
Committee) that the Dunkirk evacuation
was the work of the British and Spanish
“loyalists.” The one thing wanting was
an account of the Italian Navy’s sur-
render to Admiral Cunninghamsky at
Batoum.
Australia lost a good friend in Sir
Kingsley Wood. “Last year,” Dr. Evatt
said in an absorbingly interesting state-
ment on foreign affairs, which wasn’t
debated (a very bad Canberra custom),
“it was the late Chancellor of the Ex-
chequer who very quickly determined
that an increase was justified in the pur-
chase price payable for Australian wool.
This year, with equal dispatch, he made
a decision which meant a contribution of
about £7,000,000 towards the meeting of
Australian payments for war supplies ‘in
recognition,’ he wrote/ ‘of the splendid
share Australia has had in the common
war effort.’ ” To the Minister of Ex-
ternal Affairs Sir Kingsley Wood’s death
was “a deep personal loss.”
Note by Alexander Werth, the Russian-
born writer and radio speaker, whose
stuff is generally good;
In Stalino the Germans had established
annexes of the Hermann Goring Combines
« with a number of new joint-stock com-
panies for the exploitation of the Donbas.
They had changed back Stalino’s name to
Yuzovka, its original name for Hughes,
a Welsh industrialist who settled there in
the ’seventies.
So that’s where Billy came from!
While allowing that “something will
have to be done when (!) men earning
high wages and overtime return to nor-
mal wages,” Scullin sees objections to
“pay-as-you-earn.” He is not very pre-
cise about them, nor can he be accepted
“V.D.C. personnel are not entitled to buy their summer outfits coupon-free, but Sydney Rugby
League footballers were allowed to buy jerseys without having to surrender coupons.”
“S. M. Herald” writer.
“It was the only thing I could get, sir.”
as an authority on income tax, seeing
that, as a result of the distribution
scheme recommended by the Scullin-
Spooner committee and accepted without
inquiry, the Government at Brisbane is
putting nearly £3,000,000 into war loan
while the Government at Adelaide has
budgeted for a deficit of £420,000. In
Britain, where income tax originated and
where it has always been simple and
understandable —in Australia it is an in-
soluble puzzle except to tax-agents and
accountants —the Government has con-
sidered all the objections and is intro-
ducing a lucid pay-as-you-earn system
affecting 10,000,000 taxpayers, of whom
8,000,000 are manual workers.
Though it hasn’t been mentioned in
the cables, a gun-running case in
Palestine is getting considerable space in
American papers. First, two British
Army privates were sentenced to 15
years’ imprisonment for trafficking in
arms. Then two Jews were charged with
the illegal possession of “300 Australian
rifles and 105,000 American cartridges.”
Proceedings were taken in a military
court, and the prosecution alleged the
existence of “a vast, wealthy, unscrupu-
lous gun-running organisation of Jews,
the most active members of which aim
not only at defence against the Arabs but
at extending the bounds of Palestine after
the war.” British policy in Palestine is
objected to “because it stabilises the
Jewish population as a perpetual
minority.”
Disguises and false labels are part of
the Communist box-of-tricks. When the
ban was imposed a so-called Legal
Rights Committee shot up in N. S.
Wales, with one Ogston or Owston as
chief asserter of legal rights. The ban
removed, the Legal Rights Committee
melted into hot air and Ogston or
Owston, disguised as an Awstrellyun, be-
came a noisy and occasionally intel-
ligible figure on Communist platforms.
Now the alleged State Labor “party,”
having formed a united front with the
Communists, both “parties” being all
front, is amalgamating with them. The
pretence that the State Labor “party” was
separate took in only imbeciles and
mugs.
Among the first lot of papers presented
to the new Parliament was a Customs Act
proclamation (September 1, 1943) pro-
hibiting the export of macaroni, spaghetti
and vermicelli. Won’t our co-belligerent
consider this an unfriendly act?
Tas. Labor, which ran Dick Darcey,
aged 74, for another six years’ term as
a Senator, has been trying to get rid of
State Auditor-General Batt. Batt is, 69,
but is still eminently capable, judging by
his informative and trenchant annual
reports. The intention was announced
over the air before being communicated
to Batt, and the Leg. Council was so
shocked that it heaved out the sacking
measure, refusing to be mollified by a
belated offer of six months’ furlough
“subsequent to ‘retirement.’ ”
Anybody looking for “a round or two
for a pound or two” need only go along
to a meeting of the Sydney Labor Coun-
cil and get into a debate between Corns,
and “moderates.” The latest brawl
started when a union at odds with the
A.W.U. sought affiliation. It didn’t get
it, but “an elderly delegate was hit in
the«stomach” and a younger one stopped
one in the eye. There ought to be good
material with which to launch an active
Second Front at these —er —meetings.
An unknown man has been caught
digging coal in the Newcastle (N.S.W.)
district. Wirths should snap him up and
bill him as an Australian freak, rarer
than the nine-tailed platypus.
Ihe Victorian Minister for Mines told
the State Parliament that it had sought
release of men from the army to work
in Victorian coalmines. Why do that,
seeing there are plenty of men not work-
ing on the N.S.W. coalfields?
Harrison, M.H.R., has advanced a
“five-point fprmula” for the coal
trouble; ,
Scrap all anti-strike regulations—the Gov-
ernment hasn’t the courage to enforce
them. Peg wages, customs and conditions.
Wipe out reference boards and pending
claims and start the miners from scratch
under their awards. Draft strikers into the
army and replace them with men from the
services.
“These proposals may cause some tem-
porary turmoil,” he said. Well, tem-
porary turmoil would be better than per-
manent turmoil.
“Ten union officials and representatives
of the strike committee” went to Can-
berra by car to see Senator Collings
when the unspeakable holdup at the
Sydney defence “project” was in its third
week. Union bosses being above the law,
they could have had no trouble in obtain-
ing the necessary petrol, though a fast
daily train service runs between Sydney
and Canberra.
Australia’s defence zone after the war
should be extended to the Solomons, New
Caledonia and the East Indies, Dr. Evatt
said in Parliament. In other words, be-
yond the limits prescribed in the Militia
Hopscotch Bill.
Seeing that South Australia has re-
jected three of its Opposition Senators and
three of its four Opposition Ms.H.R.,
those Canberra correspondents may now
deign to stop calling it “the hillbilly
State.” Before 1931 it was Labor, as a
rule. In Fisher’s first (1908-09) Ministry
there were three Ministers from S.A.
(Batchelor, McGregor and Hutchinson),
two each from N. S. Wales and West-
ralia, a Victorian and a Queenslander
It was Langism that brought about the
movement to the Right. At one time •
there were three Lang “parties” in Adel-
aide, each claiming to be the only
genuine-branded article.
Fanfare from the N.S.W. Minister for
Agriculture:
The Public Service Board has approved
of the amalgamation of the Divisions of
Marketing and Agricultural Economics.
The amalgamation has been decided upon
with a view to ensuring the closest collabo-
ration between the officers engaged in these
two closely-allied spheres of activity and
to avoid overlapping of the services, there-
by making for a maximum of efficiency and
securing the fullest benefit of the services
to the State.
That ought to silence these cockies.
If the Department of Post-war Recon-
struction fails, it won’t be for lack of
staff. The Director-General, who is 37,
already has 21 assistants “in receipt of
£4QO a year or more.” Two are ladies
and two are middle-aged ; ages of the
others range from 24 to 36, eight being
in the twenties. One of two 24-year-olds
has had “four years’ general departmental
experience,” the other “three years’ teach-
ing and general practical agricultural and
departmental experience.” Worthy young
fellows, no doubt; but the growth of this
department should be watched.


gdf
gdf
g
dfg
f
Gold Medal
SHERRY
PERSONAL ITEMS
Guy Pentreath, head of St. Peter’s,
Adelaide, is retiring to take the Wrekin,
one of England’s smaller public schools,
just as his predecessor, Bickersteth,
went to Felstead ten years ago. By
the constitution of St. Peter’s, its
headmaster has to be an Anglican
clergyman, and promotion in that line is
much more likely in England. Bicker-
steth has lately been appointed a Canon
of Canterbury, where the Archbishop is
an old schoolfellow of his.
Deciding, at 70, to call it a day, former
M. Prime Minister George W. Forbes
did not seek re-election; but retires to his
farm at Hurunui, Canterbury. Of the
stolid type of politician, the ex-P.M. is
a native of Lyttelton ; was educated at
Christchurch Boys’ High, where he shone
at athletics; commenced a business
career, but forsook it. to take up land
which he hacf drawn in the ballot for
Cheviot estate. He spent his first night
on his allotment under a dray to comply
with the conditions of his lease ; erected
a lean-to later and some few years back
a fine homestead.
A. L. Parton, son of a Katoomba
(N.S.W.) parson, gets this year’s Lister
Prize of Adelaide Uni. in unusual cir-
cumstances. It goes to the undergrad
with the best practical knowledge of
surgery. Parton, after being a leader at
Newington College, was well on in the
medical course at Sydney Uni. when ill-
health stopped it, and he moved to a
warmer climate. In S.A., after being re-
jected for war service, he took up surgery
again, and now, at 33, he is a “fifth-yeai
medical” undergrad, engaged at the
Royal Adelaide Hospital.
Air Commodore A. W. Murphy,
D.F.C., A.F.C., of the R.A.A.F., has the
very rare distinction of having twice won
a commission from the ranks. He was
a w.o.e. with No 1 Squadron Australian
Flying Corps in Palestine when he was
selected to do a flying course which led
to his first commission. On return from
the 1914-18 dust-up he enlisted in the
newly-formed R.A.A.F. as a fitter, and
as a sergeant fitter accompanied Captain
H. Wrigley (now Air Vice-Marshal) on
the first overland flight from Melbourne
to Darwin to meet the contestants in
Billy Hughes’s air race from England.
He gained his second commission about
1924 as flying-officer. After his
wings in Egypt he helped Lawrence "and
his Arabs with reconnaissance work over
the Turkish lines. When the big Allenby
push was about to start he went over to
the desert beyond Amman with a Bristol
fighter to assist Lawrence again. The
German Air Force station at Deera made
a dead-set to get him, but, after a fight
against heavy odds, he flew his machine
back to the squadron looking more like
a sieve than an aircraft. He and Ross
Smith then went back with a couple of
machines, cleaned the Germans up in
great style and enabled Lawrence to get
on with his job free from observation.
For this Murphy was awarded the D.F.C.
and also a decoration from the Sheriff of
Mecca.
The School of Arts and Crafts in Adel-
aide (which has John Goodchild, the
painter, as secretary) has an innovation
—two women members on its council.
Appointed by the Government, Mrs.
Carlile McDonnell has shown strong
executive ability in various movements.
Elected by the Trades and Labor Coun-
cil, Mrs. Johnson (of the Teesdale Smith
family) is a keen horsewoman, and is
acting secretary of the Clerks’ Union.
Dr. H. J. Hynes, chief biologist of
N. Dept, of Agriculture, has been
given a new job as acting chief of the
combined Marketing and Agricultural
Economics divisions. Hypes joined the
dept, as a cadet in 1919, got his
B.Sc.Ag. with honors in 1922, and next
year won the Walter and Eliza Hall
Agricultural Research Fellowship. He
did postgraduate study and research at
Sydney and Minnesota (U.S.A.) Uni-
versities, is a M.Sc. of the latter and got
his doctorate of agricultural science in
Sydney in 1936. A Bulletin man who
came upon him prowling through the
3000 acres of wheat growing on- Weelong,
out of Forbes (N.S.W.), in 1931 was
grabbed and had thrust on to him sundry
revelations concerning glaume rot, sep-
toria, leaf rust and other strange animals,
and had to be revived with a thumping
good feed at big Bill Hocking’s home-
stead, a feed spiced with Hynes’s dry
humor.
The R.A.F. Transport Command’s new
Deputy C.-in-C., Air Marshal Alfred
Conrad Collier, was born in Sydney’s
horsy suburb Randwick in 1895. He was
with the R.F.C. in the last war, and has
lately been on Staff Directorate of Opera-
tions and Intelligence. .
Lempriere Abbott, M.H.A. and the
most recent K.C. in Adelaide, has been
elected president of the Law Society of
S.A.; J. L. Travers is vice-president, and
Arnold Moulden treasurer.
A. W. (“Skipper”) Cocks, London-
born 80 years ago, first came to Australia
in 1890 for health reasons, though he
stayed at sea for over 15 years after
that. His native England has always had
a good hold on his affections ; he made
his latest voyage back there as recently
as 1935. It was his 34th voyage to Eng-
land. In 1918 he even tried settling down
there again, but two years of the climate
drove him back to N.S.W. Still full of
vigor, well-dressed and dignified-looking,
which gets him his other nickname “The
General,” he says watching other people
work is his favorite occupation. He has
two sisters living in England, “At
Brighton, right in the thick of it.”
“Granny’s” war scribes:
. Whatever it is they feed ’em on at the Cafe
de Fairfax round the corner. Granny “Herald’s”
war correspondents among them have done and
are doing some outstanding work. One of
them, Gavin Long, is Australia’s Official His-
torian, and there could not have been a better
pick. Last war’s Official Historian, Dr.
C. E. W. Bean, was also a “Granny” product.
Long’s war experience includes being with the
B.E.F. in Belgium and France; with the R.N.;
with the A.I.F. in Egypt, Libya, Greece and
Crete; then accredited to the South-west
Pacific. William Munday, who was killed in
Italy, did a notable job in Burma, where he
was the only Australian correspondent. He
was in the retreat there and had a string
of narrow escapes before going on to note
the fighting in Tunisia and Italy. Roderick
MacDonald, who had been “Granny’s” rep.
in Chungking, parachuted into Sicily to bag
a first-rate story. Guy Herriott, on the Greek
front for the first Italian setbacks there, won
a Greek decoration for carrying messages
H. A. STANDISH.
under fire. Also, he was aboard a ship carry-
ing prisoners, and when the vessel was mined
he helped quell the panic that broke loose.
H. A. Standdsh was bagged by the Japs in Siam,
and Tokyo Radio had the face to announce his
trial for “sedition.” He got away, and, with a
fellow-scribe, came through a terrible 1200-mile
jungle trek which alone was enough to set any
scribe up with good “copy” for life. There
are plenty more of them, too, including Jack
Percival, who covered the Jap advance in
Malaya before going on to the Philippines,
where he and his wife were captured; Douglas
Gardner, first Australian war correspondent to,
send news from Guadalcanal; and H. J.
Summers, who was on one of the landing barges
which lately put “a famous A.I.F. division”
ashore to cut off the Japs at Lae. Also Selwyn'
Speight, who lately sent word from Chungking
of the many Australian soldiers, prisoners of
war, building a railway under Jap supervision
in Burma, with the note: “The men’s
skins, through constant exposure to the sun,
are now as dark as those of the local inhabi-
tants.”
From John Brennan:
Staff-sergeant Keith Crown of the 161st U.S.
Infantry made the accompanying drawing of
regimental commander Colonel James L.
Dalton II on Mt. Tiarokiamba, New Georgia,
on August 25. It was the morning after the
forward battalion of the 161st had reached the
western shores of Bairoko Harbor, completing
its march across the island from Munda air-
field, and the morning on which U.S. forces
Sketched on New Georgia.
entered the deserted Bairoko village, marking
the finish of the New Georgia campaign. Col.
Dalton’s energy and drive were chiefly
responsible for the speed with which his men
made tjiat arduous trek through the jungle.
His spirit was unflagging. It was not the first
occasion on which he had had battle contact
with the Japanese. The 161st played a notable
part in the bitter fighting at the Matanikau
River last November, and the reputation he
earned on Guadalcanal as a fighting leader was
added to in this new campaign. The regiment
went to New Georgia on July 21; attached to
the 37th Division under General Belar, it com-
pleted the drive to the west coast after Munda
was captured, then, with General Collins’s 25th
Division, it turned north to lead the attack on
Bairoko which found the enemy evacuated.
Dalton, now 33, was a West-Pointer of the
class of 1933. His rise since the war began
has been rapid—a major when the Guadalcanal
campaign opened, he came out of it a lieut.-
colonel, and gained full rank early this year.
Giving an Italian colonel a pound of
tea enabled Edwin Broomhead, a S.A.
prisoner of war in Italy, to be included
among exchanged prisoners to England,
where he has raised over £lOOO for the
Red Cross P.O.W. Fund by lecturing on
his experiences in prison camps. Before
enljsting Broomhead was a Methodist
cleric touring church circuits as confer-
ence evangelist in S.A. In 1940 he joined
the A.I.F. as a private, and was a medical
orderly in Major Binns’s unit, captured
at Defna in 1941,
“Goodwill ambassador”:
In America Grade Fields, who proposes tour-
ing Australia about a year hence, is spoken of
as “John Bull’s best goodwill ambassador,”
and has been rated (in “Movie-Radio Guide”)
as “the world’s highest-paid entertainer.” This
source puts her top earnings at $780,000 a year.
Yet, quite recently, she was broke. This hap-
pened because, with war on, she gave up earn-
ing for herself and put in two years singing at
army camps and hospitals—at as many as 11 a
day, bearing all expenses herself. Going to
America in 1940, she raised half a million
dollars for British war victims and “brought joy
unalloyed to thousands of American boys in
camp.” Known in her native Lancashire as
“Our Grade,” she has astonished many by
being “downright handsome when she’s not
making faces.” She began on the stage early, at
12 touring the English provinces as one of
Clara Coverdale’s Dainty Dots. That career
was cut short by truant officers, who ordered the
under-age entertainer back to school. From
there she went cotton-winding, but this career,
too, was soon cut short. She was caught giving
a too-realistic imitation of the foreman, and,
says Gracie, “I was asked for me resignation.”
Thence back to the stage, and on up to a salary
of over £lOOO a week at London Palladium and
Coliseum, with pictures on the side, and, as
well as giving two vaudeville shows a day, sing-
ing at hospitals, veterans’ homes and camps and
to raise cash for one J. Bull fund or another.
At Buckingham Palace in 1938 King George
presented her with the rose-colored ribbon of
Commander of the Most Excellent Order of the
British Empire, on which Gracie, with Ameri-
can English usage in mind, subsequently com-
mented, “I’m glad they didn’t make me a
Dame. It would sound a bit racy, it would.”
South Australian pastoralist J. T.
Mortlock has weighed in with a gift of
£lO,OOO towards the development of
24,000 acres of the Mortlock estate
(Eyre’s Peninsula), re-
cently purchased by
the Government for
s e 111 eme, n t of re-
turned service men. The
name of Mortlock has
pastoral traditions in
S.A. dating back to the
’forties. W. R. Mort-
lock, who took up hold-
ings in the north and
later on Eyre’s Penin-
sula, was a member of
Parliament from 1868
to 1884. A son was
also a member, 1896-
1902. J.T., of the third
generation, controls the
interests of Yudna-
pinna, Lake Wangary
and other estates.
Gallipoli veteran
D. A. Geddes, super-
intending inspector and
officer in charge of the
Department of Labor
and Industry at New-
castle, has been made
deputy chairman of that
city’s Waterside Refer-
ence Boards. He’s a
Perth (W.A.) native,
and got his founding in
engineering at Yarloop.
He was at Gallip. with
the old 11th Battalion.
Into the silence:
* In England, at 70, Julius Leonard Vogel,
youngest son of an old-time Maoriland Prime
Minister. J.L.V. was g.m. of Highspeed Steel
Alloys.
At Wellington (M.L.), at 45, Donald K.
Leed, who, after last-war service in the R.F.C.
and later with its successor the R.A.F., in 1923
became associated with the Morris Industries
concern, representing it in Australia, Persia,
West Africa and, since 1935, in M.L. With
Lord Nuffield’s approval Leed was loaned to
the M.L. Government to assist in munition-
making.
At Yarloop (W.A.), at 68, Frank Benjamin
Davies, whose father founded the early karri
mills of Karridale, in the neighborhood of the
Leeuwin. Since the big amalgamation of timber
companies in 1902 F.B.D. had filled many a
managerial position on Millars’ mills, including
Marrinup and Canning. He succeeded A. J.
McNeil as a director of the Millars co.
At 90, E. X. Lievre, whose father came to
Maoriland* from Normandy, France, with the
French whaleman Langlois in 1838, when
Langlois bought the whole of Banks Peninsula
from the Maoris. Lievre’s father settled in
Akaroa in 1842, and eventually Lievre took
over an Akaroa property for himself, special-
ising in sheep, cattle and dairying. A great
trotting enthusiast, he frequently went to the
U.S.A. and brought back many trotters. He
•bred and raced Peter Bingen, winner of the
N.Z. Cup, and he won the Wellington Cup
(the first gold cup in M.L.) with Great
Audobon.
In Melbourne, at 71, Arthur Sydney Baillieu,
governing' director of Baillieu, Allard, and a
Commercial Bank and Bay Steamers director.
He received an 0.8. E. for his part in the
repatriation of the first A.I.F.
In Camberwell (Vic.), at 69, Major-General
T. H. Dodds, former Base Commandant in
N. S. Wales.
By aircraft accident, Squadron-Leader L. M.
Hogan, 44. He was born at Cootamundra
(N.S.W.), but learned and practised law in
Adelaide, where his father is chairman of sti-
pendiary racing stewards.
At Victor Harbor (S.A.), knight William
John Sowden, 85, former editor and part-
proprietor of Adelaide’s “Register,” and presi-
dent of the Board of Governors of the Public
Library, Museum and Art Gallery for 18 years.
In Sydney, at 41, Maxwell Playford, metal-
lurgist and mining engineer. Born at Norton’s
Summit (S.A.), he was associated with Broken
Hill and Westralian mining concerns. Latterly
he had charge of one of Australia’s largest
munition plants. S.A. Premier Playford is a
cousin.


Society
"AND IT'S PRINTED
WITH WIMBLE'S INKS"
“Jachris”: There was a huge painted
calico sign which hung above the busiest
roadway on Guadalcanal;
KILL THE BASTARDS!
Down this road marched one of the Regiments
of the U.S. Army, Knights serving the Queen
of Battles.
A party of their wounded in litters
was clubbed, bayoneted and shot to
death.
KILL THE BASTARDS!
It became dirtied and muddied by rain
and the dust, and at last it was taken
down. It was the merest coincidence that
Mrs. Roosevelt arrived at Guadalcanal
two days later.
* * * *
“Zake”: Reading about the Naples
G.P.O. being blown up by a time bomb,
one is surprised that the Italians, who
should well know the endearing little ways
of their erstwhile allies, did not suspect
the motive that left an important building
standing intact in the midst of desolation.
Old Diggers learned their wariness of the
Hun in a hard school. I passed through
Bapaume a few hours after its capture,
and while it was still burning. Practically
the only building left standing was the
town hall, and there tucker was being dis-
tributed to the troops, and the Y.M. and
the Salvarmy had taken up their stands.
A couple of days later we heard that the
building had gone up in the air, costing
many good Australian lives. Thereafter,
whenever the squareheads retired, nobody
dossed in intact buildings. Nor did one
go on scrounging expeditions down aban-
doned Fritz dugouts ; treading on the
third or fourth step almost invariably
set a mine off. Level crossings were also
favorite possies for Hun time bombs;
some of them went off up to a month
after he’d slung his hook. After the
Hindenburg line was smashed and Fritz
gave the best imitation yet seen of a
beaten army, he retreated at about 30
miles a day, so fast that he mostly hadn’t
time to mine roads and buildings. With
one exception to my knowledge. We
billeted the night before the Armistice in
a disused brewery outside Mons. Next
day we had orders to push on another
30 miles or so, and we cursed mightily,
for we had foreknowledge that 11 a.m.
would be curtains. Six hours after we
left the brewery blew up. Some unlucky
Tommies who had taken it over were
killed, an hour or two after the “cease
fire” had sounded.
* * 1 * *
“S.T.S.”: “Hamer” does me a wrong
when he says (B. 6/10/’43) that I speak
from “prejudice” in saying that Aus-
tralian beer was poor stuff 60 or 70 years
ago. Hardly; for, firstly, my own family
fortunes rose on that very product; and,
secondly, I am arguing entirely in favor
of supporting our own manufactures —
whisky and tobacco af the moment —
while they improve as they are bound to
do (if supported), just as wine and beer
in turn have improved. But,'meanwhile,
1 must repeat that at the period named —
say, before we first encountered German
bottled lager at the Melbourne exhibition,
Christmas, 1880 —our own beer (practi-
cally all draught then) was poor, com-
pared with modern standards.
* * * *
“Plenty Savoy”; “Cauboy” (B.
6/10/’43) is too severe on William
Archer, whose “Green Goddess” was not
his only contribution to the English stage.
He translated Ibsen —so well that Shaw
said “Whenever a translation is produced
without the peculiar character that
Archer gave to his, it has no character at
all, no challenge.... Whenever ‘Peer
Gynt’ is quoted it is always in the Archer
version.” Anyway, to call “The Green
Goddess” a cheap melodrama is to misuse
a trite phrase. It is an excellent play of
its kind, and provided George Arliss
with one of his best parts, tjiat of the
wicked Rajah. Guy Bates Post gave a
convincing performance of this part on
our own stage.
* * * *
“Sixenate”: An American case, cabled
lately, in which a breach-of-promise
action was based on a troth plighted in
1908 recalls a N. S. Wales affair in which
a woman of 62 sued for recompense
from the estate of a swain three years
older. The lady told the Court that she
was J 8 when she became engaged ; her
"Where'll you have it, skipper ?”
cautious lover suggested that they should
wait seven years to see whether they
suited each other, and then, when that
period had flown, declared that he could
not marry while his mother (alleged to
be an invalid) was alive and needed him.
The old lady lasted 18 years, to which the
swain added an extra year for mourning.
The lady had shown a little impatience
when there was still further delay, and
this had caused her fiance to say that
they were obviously unsuited and he
didn’t intend to marry a bad-tempered
woman ; but after a dozen years or so
the engagement was revived and ulti-
mately the marriage was definitely fixed,
The slow-paced ’groom died just a month
before the fixed date and forgot to men-
tion his faithful sweetheart in his will,
* * * *
“Hamer”: One day last week I reached
the 50th anniversary of a Sydney hap-
pening that made a great impression (the
date is fixed by other more important
events of my boyhood). Coming home
from school along Pitt-street (we lived
in the city, in which then there were
many residences) I saw an excited mob
outside a shop. People were leaving the
small crowd that had gathered, saying
“scandalous,” “disgraceful” and “out-
rageous,” and one highly-indignant old
gentleman, meeting me as I approached,
said “You mustn’t go there, boy; it
wouldn’t do at all,” and led me well
away from the danger zone. I read about
the direful happening next day. A haber-
dasher had dared to expose women’s
undergarments in his window, and some
righteously shocked individual had
bunged a stone in to keep them company.
* * * *
“Oxmead”: It is curious to contrast
the dictum of that Sydney magistrate,
“What may be considered indecent one
day is not so considered the next” (B»
13/10/’43), with a couple of sentences on
the same subject taken from Macaulay’s
essay on “The Comic Dramatists of the
Restoration,” written just over 100 years
ago:
The terms which are delicate in one age
become gross in the next. The diction of
the English version of the Pentateuch is
sometimes such as Addison would not have
ventured to imitate; and Addison, the
standard of moral purity in his own age,
used many phrases which are now pro-
scribed.
If the two statements are to be recon-
ciled, the standards of decency which
were gradually being raised all through
the eighteenth and nineteenth centuries
are now on the downgrade. In other
words, we are more indelicate, or less
squeamish, than our ancestors.
* * * *
“P.McM.”: I work in a Big City and
pass thousands of Australians daily, but
I have yet to see a Fourth Liberty Loan
badge adorning a lapel or frock. Do
Aussies insist on doing their patriotic
duty unobtrusively?
* * * *
“Jachris”: Let Bobby Talili, corporal
in the British Solomon Islands protec-
torate constabulary, take his bow. Bobby
is about 30 and comes from the village
of Gimu on Florida Island. He was at
Tulagi when a Japanese patrol of one
officer and 45 men took over his village.
The invaders commandeered the three
best huts for themselves and made free
with the womenfolk and with the vil-
lagers’ gardens. Bobby’s brother pro-
tested and the Jap officer drew his
revolver and shot him dead. Bobby
heard of it at Tulagi and went bush. For
three days he reconnoitred the village,
hiding on the outskirts. He discovered
that the Japs dined each day at 12, the
men all in one hut, the officer in another.
Bobby footed it back for a patrol of
U.S. Marines and led it to Gimu. The
force arrived just on noon. Bobby pointed
out the hut where the Japs were eating
and suggested that the Americans open
up after h@ had fired the first shot. He
crept towards the hut in which the officer
was dining, poked a rifle through the
window and shot him. The Marines got
the 45 men—all killed. Bobby Talili is
credited now with 16 Japs killed and two
captured. That’s on his own bat; a fair
enough effort for a Solomons “boy.”
* * * *
“Avon”: “Chevroford’s” suggestion
(B. 13/10/’43) about planting stone fruit-
trees oh the streets reminds me of a
Maoriland experience. I was a reporter,
therefore much exposed to politicians,
and when Honest Harry (one of our
city’s suburban members) stuck a pre-
hensile finger in my buttonhole and un-
folded his wonderful idea about planting
plum, peach, apricot and cherry trees on
all the boulevards I could not choose but
hear. And, it being a dull season, I gave
him a piece in the paper about it. Met
Harry about a fortnight later and he
looked at me most reproachfully. I in-
quired the reason for his umbrage, and
he declared that I had ruined his political
career by rushing off and printing some-
thing he hadn t meant for publication
and only intended as a joke, anyway. It
appeared that as soon as poor Harry’s
brain-child got into print he was deluged
with wrathful letters from mothers of
six (constituents of his) who called
heaven to witness that they had enough
trouble as it was with their kids getting
colic from eating unripe fruit without
Harry bestrewing every highway with the
pitfall of greengages and the gin of
damsons. By the time the elections came
round Harry was convinced that he had
been grossly misreported and told every
meeting he had advocated only the plant-
ing of flowering and non-fruiting cherries
and plums.
* * * *
“J.W.R.”; “S.T.S.” (B. 6/10/ ’43) con-
jectures rightly that “Friday next” was
a Scots usage, meaning not‘Friday com-
ing but the Friday after next Friday.
“Friday first” was—and in rural areas
probably still is—the Western Scottish
way of saying “next Friday” or Friday
coming. “Next Friday,” so far as I can
recall, was not used in the west of Scot-
land in the nineteenth century. If it was
used it meant the Friday after next Fri-
day, because there was no exception to
the rule that what “S.T.S.” would call
“next Friday” was “Friday first” in Gal-
loway.
* * * *
“Clooter”; Combating black-market
tactics presents some knotty problems. A
man wanted to sell a car. The ceiling
price was fixed at £75 for that model
and vintage. The man wanted £125 and
the buyer was willing to pay it. So the
buyer paid £75 as per the regulations,
then bet the vendor £5O that he couldn’t
put his hat on the ground and jump
over it. Of course, the buyer lost the bet.
* * * *
“Bohemian”: The yarn about the lady
who returned a violin because (in her
hands) it produced a bad tone recalls a
joke played by Kubelik in M.L. The news-
papers referred so often to his Strad.
that K. grew angry, and mentioned once
or twice that the player had something
to do with violin-playing also. But with-
out avail. At a provincial centre where
he was playing a two nights’ season, the
two local papers were lyrical in their
references to that violin. On the second
night, after he had finished his recital, K.
gave the audience a shock. He went down
among his listeners and made them
examine the instrument he had been play-
ing.' It was a fiddle picked almost at ran-
dom out of the local music-dealer’s stock,
and would sell at somewhere under £lO.
* * * *
“F.S.”: Melbourne Nat. Gallery
Director Daryl Lindsay complains that
he is a sort of Aunt Sally, his sympathy
for “contemporary” art having earned
him the reputation among academicians of
being a revolutionary, though “modern-
ists” regard him as an academician.
His predecessor, Hall, regarded anybody
who didn’t paint like Hall as little better
than a madman and excluded from an
exhibition of students’ work a picture by
a somewhat heretical pupil. The pupil
rented a Collins-street window and showed
his picture there, where it attracted a
great deal more attention than it was
worth because Hall had condemned it.
The rebellious pupil (so the legend runs)
was then taken up by a wealthy magnate
and made art director of all his building
projects. National galleries ought to
institute a probationary gallery where the
works of the younger generation of
artists could be hung, whether the
trustees liked them or not. It wouldn’t
matter if a lot of the work turned out
to be rubbish. Some of it might turn out
to be worth while.
MARS AND MARES.
“Mr. Ourtin said that he was considering the
question whether, .consistent with security, the
present bah on the publication of weather information
could be removed.’’
There’s quite a lot of things I’ve missed
Since war-time whittled them away;
And far from last upon the list.
What papers published day by day,
The tips one regularly read
To learn what weather lay ahead.
They weren’t invariably true
And sometimes moved a bitter jest
When morrows came, but still we knew
The seers had done their level best
And hardly merited the gibes
So often flung at racing scribes.
%
Such features now no more we see,
And I, for one, have missed them sore,
Those slabs of weather-wizardry
And meteorologic lore.
It made a fellow hipped and glum
To find his oracles were dumb.
Even when Japs were at the gate
How could it profit them to know
If storm or shine was on the slate
And whence or whither winds would blow
In consonance with the decrees •
Of those we trust for auguries?
Restore, you powers that be, I pray.
The tips on which such store we set
Of waves of heat upon the way
Or dismal spells of cold and wet,
The days for dainty frocks and slacks
And those demanding gamps and macks. *
There’s much in war-time that we’ve got
To do without. Full many a thing
Goes by the board. But this is what
I fail to see (considering
The recent turn in world affairs)
Why Mars should go on muzzling Mares.
N.S.W.
T. THE R.
RAINBOW GOLD.
“My heart leaps up when I behold
A rainbow in the sky” —
Two memorable lines, we’re told,
A master poet penned of old;
Yet, quite unlike him, I
Exhibit no emotion on
Surveying this phenomenon.
For thrills, the spacious firmament
Is well outside my range,
A trait I share with many a gent.
Whose gaze is regularly bent
Upon the Stock Exchange.
It’s clear the rainbows we pursue
Are not the sort that Wordsworth knew.
Yet every rainbow in a pot
Of gold should somewhere end,
And could we find that fabled spot
It’s safe to bet we’d get a lot
Of kick therefrom, my friend,
A keener joy than ever stole
Into a cultured poet’s soul.
Till then—well, when I’ve backed a gee
For plate or stakes or cup,
Some rank outsider, it may be,
And, when the shouting’s over, see
His number hoisted up,
I’ve no objection to admit
I feel my heart leap up a bit.
n.s.w.
PIPARDS.


“St. Mungo”: That cover-page ad.
(B. 25/8/’43) giving a glimpse of Glas-
gow University recalled a rectorial elec-
tion of some 20 years ago. On election
day one of the doors in the arched door-
way to the -election hall is opened just
sufficiently to allow one person through
at a time. Within throwing distance of
the doorway, opposing “political” under-
grads keep up a crisscross hail of paper
bags full of maizemeal. The bags burst
on the doorway and a sort of mist sprays
the tardy elector. Watching this scene I
saw from round the corner the approach
of a very stout man in a poet’s hat and
canopy cape, and even his pince-nez
arched in a smile as he hurried towards
the door. An enthusiastic roar went up
as Chesterton got stuck in the doorway.
After the mist had cleared his face re-
appeared, beaming like the sun from be-
hind clouds. Next entrant was Comp-
ton (“Skinny”) Mackenzie. Like a wet
fly crawling across a ceiling he scrambled
through, breathing maizemeal. The last
notable to pass was Halliday Sutherland,
shaking himself free like a dog after a
bath. As a result of all this maizy haze
Prof. Phillimore was elected Rector.
“Gunner”; Tell “Oxmead” (B.
15/9/’43) that not all the Jacobites were
Scots. The exile who “pined on
Lavernia for Scargill and by Arno for
Tees” was probably a gentleman of
Cumberland who took part in the
luckless 1715 rebellion. The leader,
Forster, the Earl of Derwentwater, and
some lesser lights were hanged. Lord
Nithsdale escaped from prison and exe-
cution in his wife’s clothes. The Scot-
tish counterpart of the Rising of the
Fifteen was presided over by “Bobbing
John” Mar, whose forfeited seat, Braemar
Castle, was pictured on the cover of The
Bulletin in which “Oxmead’s” par.
appeared. /
*♦* * *
“Balander”: A thing that maddens me
about politicians is the pains they take
to avoid giving a straight answer to a
straight question. I’m moved to these re-
marks by a typical instance in Queens-
land Assembly. Asked if his Govern-
ment would set aside money to rebuild
the Burdekin and other northern rail-
way bridges after the war, the Minister
said:
The rehabilitation of the Queensland rail-
ways, their engine-power, rolling stock, per-
manent way, together with necessary re-
placements, has already been provided for.
A new railway bridge over the Burdekin
River has been included in the matters for
consideration.
Why on earth couldn’t he have said
“Yes”?
* * * *
“Uramao”: Maoriland women’s organ-
isations are celebrating the fiftieth anni-
versary of the passing of the bill that
won for women the right to vote. Sir
George Grey and Ballance were for
it; Seddon was not enthusiastic, but
that very influential Liberal Sir John
Hall would not accept defeat, and finally
prevailed. M.L. suffragettes of the ’nine-
“Come, Prendergast, I'm counting on you to establish a bridgehead!"
ties ran a paper called “Daybreak,” re-
garded as “advanced.” One issue said it
was to be hoped women would not “forget
their sex” and, with the new rights they
possessed, appear in “places where they
would become a laughingstock”—Parlia-
ment especially. A heart-rending plea,
“Oh, girls, girls, why will you unsex your-
selves to appear in places where you are
not required!” referred to the employ-
ment of two girls in the Government
Tncurance Office
« i * *
“Hamfat”: A current move for puri-
fication of the cinema reminds me of
“Sappho,” introduced in Australia by
Olga Nethersole. Probably the piece
would not raise the hairs on many heads
if reintroduced today, but in the dawn
of the century it raised a howl for prohi-
bition wherever it went, which was very
good for the box-office. One of the most
daring situations was where young
Armand carried his fair but frail lady
upstairs to his bedroom. As one who
has played Armand I can testify that
lumping a ten-stone actress up the stairs
was a man’s job, and my “At last!
before disappearing behind the bedroom
door was always heartfelt. Our business
method was to book two nights in each
country town, bill one night, carefully
chosen, and arrange that the parsons,
invited to come as guests and ‘ judge
for yourself,” were seated with the
press representatives. While the re-
marks of the clerics to the pressmen were
sizzling, the announcement would be
made from the stage that, as a result ot
numerous requests from people who had
been unable to attend, a repeat perform-
ance would be given next night. What-
ever the first-night audiences were like, the
second nights always produced packed-
to-the-doors houses, thanks to shocked
reviews and outraged letters to the editor.
But we were all broke a month after
the tour ended.
**■ * *
“Joanna”: Remedy for all Sydney’s
street tree-planting difficulties is to have
squares, as in London and most
European cities. The noble trees of
Leicester, Berkeley and the various
Bloomsbury squares are among Lon-
don’s greatest charms, and in a city,
with narrow streets and high build-
ings what finer war memorial could
there be than a great square nfade
by grazing one of its overcrowded blocks,
such as that facing the Town Hall and
bounded by George, Park, Pitt and
Bathurst streets? Trees planted in the
centre of such a square, having space,
sunlight and, if necessary, built-up soil,
could grow to their full size and natural
shape, and municipal authorities would
have no excuse for lopping and pruning.
Land for such a memorial would be
costly, but surely not beyond reach of a
proud city of H million people.
* * * *
“Swan River”: Why was “WX5918”
(B. 15/9/’43) so surprised when on visit-
ing a perfume shop in Cairo he found
the proprietor able to supply with
the scent of boronia? Long ago Fauld-
ings, of Perth, put Essence of Boronia on
the market, the genuine perfume of the
Westralian flower. Probably Abdul had
Westralian contacts and so got hold of
some, or some Moslem acquaintance in
Westralia may have sent him a few pack-
ages of the flower. With a few ounces
of fresh mutton suet it is possible to
extract and bottle up the fragrance ot
any flower and ship it halfway round the
world.
* * * *
“Marmalade”: Men of eminence in
any walk of life are fond of ascribing
their success to wifely encouragement or
inspiration. A celebrity who visited Peith
(W.A.) before the war gave the idea a
different slant. “I owe everything to my
wife’s cooking,” he declared. A flapper-
press reporter pricked up her ears. “Her
cooking?” she cooed, “Was it so very
good then?” “Quite the contrary,” was
the solemn reply; “it was so bad that
I realised I’d have to earn enough to
enable me to employ a competent cook.”
* _ *„ . .* a -
Server : Rod Quinn s use of
the word mira 8 e m the last , lme the
last quatrain of “The Questing Rider”
(B. 6/10/’43) calls to mind Fowler’s dic-
turn on the pronunciation of French
words in English. In Modern English
Usage he advocates a compromise be-
tween French and English pronunciation,
Quinn, in requiring us to pronounce
“mirage” with the stress on the first syl-
lable, is following out what seems to be
the sensible line of making the word
straight-out English and thus saving the
forces of evolution in pronunciation a
long job Judging by common usage
“mirage” as pronounced according to the
OED. with stress on last syllable and
French “g ” is doomed. The analogy
with “garage,” which even the O.E.D.
recognises as having lost all claims to a
Gallic gentility, is too strong for such an
ephemeral thing as a mirage to resist,
Besides, analogy is one of the strongest
formative forces in English pronuncia-
tion
“The folks at home will never believe this.”
“P.R.”: The 12-year-old son of the
house had a single cock budgerigar. It
drooped, and he' was informed that it
needed company, so he induced his
mother to buy a hen from a bird shop.
The hen, brought home, seemed slightly
moth-eaten, and the disgusted youth, shov-
ing it into the cage, was heard to remark
to his other pet “There. She’s pretty
rough, but that’s what comes of letting
Mum pick a wife for you.” How many
grown men have thought the same thing!
Tell “R.J.C.” (B. 29/9/’43)
there must be two pages stuck together
in his textbook of radio technology. Far
from using tone controls and gadgets to
reproduce quality approaching that of
the original sounds, the majority of radio
listeners slam the controls hard down to
eliminate the higher frequencies, and thus
“muck up the music completely,” as sug-
gested by “Listening Insect” (B. 8/9/’43).
This action is a protest against the pre-
dominance of medium to high fie-
quencies and lack of true bass response
which prevail among receivers. It is not
the limitations imposed by the broad-
casting system on frequencies above 5000
cycles that are responsible so much as
the failure of manufacturers to produce
receivers with a more balanced response
and control of both the high and low
frequencies, so that the balance may be
adjusted to suit individual taste. Ex-
tending the high-frequency range has the
undesirable effect of reproducing the
needle scratch of recorded programmes ;
but true bass, which is limited only by
design considerations, is very desirable,
particularly at low volume. Give us
receivers which will reproduce musical
instruments in their proper relationship
and “fiddling with gadgets” will become
unnecessary.
* * * *
“Pat Ater” sings the praises of an old
parish church:
The little “church on the hill” at Mulgoa
(N S W.), St. Thomas’s, has its 105th anni-
versary this year. It has a direct link with
the pioneer Coxes, one of whom made the
first road over the Blue Mountains. Many
branches of the family built their colonial-
style stone mansions on the grassy undulating
country hereabouts; they nestled under the
lee of the mountains—Winbourne (burnt down,
1920), Fairlight and Glenmore. The stone
church was the worship-centre for them all.
It was consecrated by Bishop Broughton. Its
windows were the gift of ■ parishioners (mainly
Coxes), and erected as thanksgiving after the
Crimean War. The original bells are still
there; they are claimed to be the sweetest-
toned in Australia. Mulgoa district was a wine-
making district in the early days. Good grapes
were grown there, and a splendid weir was
built across the Nepean River in the interest
of the vignerons, but the industry lapsed. The
district is now given over mostly to guest-
houses and their activities.
Jfc # *
“Chevroford”: In Victoria it is esti-
mated there will be a post-war shortage
of 160,000 houses, and it is intended
to supply this lack by turning out pre-
fabricated dwellings at the rate of 16,000
per annum. A wealth of modern syn-
thetic material will be utilised, and
there will be bathrooms m which every-
thing is bakehte, together with stand-
ardised washbasins, cupboards and
kitchens, electric light'fittings and heat-
ing equipment. In fact, the suburbanite
of the future who wends his way home
blithered will be lucky if he doesn t find
himself mumbling excuses to the wrong
wife in the wrong Emoh Ruo Ot
course science as yet has only touched
the fringe of the possibilities. The pre-
fabricated house still has to be built n
sections and assembled by workmen, but
ere long houses will be poured into
moulds in factories, lifted by helicopter
’planes and dropped on to vacant allot-
ments, while the owner stands by ready
to step into his front door. Thus en-
tirely new suburbs will spring up in 24
hours. Then the more reactionary sec-
tion of the population will start a back-
to-the-hollow-log movement.
“Leo*Ager”; Tell “FS.” (B. 22/9/’#)
that there’s nothing new in the idea of
Basic English. It is more than 110 years
since Jeremy Bentham suggested that a
simplified form of English could be made
an international language (incidentally
coining the word “international ). Ben-
tham expressed the wish that he could
return to this world once every century
to see if his, theories had been adopted ;
perhaps the 200th anniversary of his birth
will see the world-wide adoption of his
theory fdr a universal language. An
eccentric in many things, Jeremy left his
money to University College, London,
and directed that his skeleton should be
clothed and set up in his chair and placed
in a box or case, to be open to inspection
to anyone who might ask for permission
to see it. It was moved to a place of
safety before the blitz. The auto-icon
(Bentham’s name for it) was present at
the dinner given to mark the centenary
of Bentham’s death; so the assembled
company had the uncanny experience of
looking on the bones of the man whose
memory «they were gathered to honor.
W. H. Friend: In B. * 29/9/’43
Thomas Michael McNamara is named
as the original Man from Snowy River.
The distinction has been claimed for
others; I claim it for another. A. B.
(“Banjo”) Paterson was the son of Andrew,
who with his brother John owned lllalong
station, near Binalong, N.S.W. They
sold to Henry Brown, who incorporated
the property with his Bendenine holding ;
Andrew was manager of Bendenine from
then to the time of his death. After
Brown’s death his brother-in-law Walter
and Owen Friend bought all the holding.
Brown had engaged E. S. Davison as
storekeeper in 1880, and he remained on
the property, which he later managed.
“Banjo” and Davison were intimate
friends, and the latter knew the origins of
many of “Banjo’s” poems. I once went
through a copy of these, asking about the
various origins. He supplied a good many,
and when I inquired who was the
original of the “Man” he named without
hesitation Forrest Wilshire, who I under-
stood was in either the N.S.W. Surveyor-
General’s or Lands Department.
* * * *
“Loot”: Room for some more service
slang? Well, here goes; Pip huffy,
used to describe a service woman who
insists on commissioned rank in her male
companions; “nesting,” spending the
evening with wife or girl fuend , on
the nose,” not good, meriting general dis-
approval; “drongo,” variously a drone
or one not so bright; and bombo, wine.


ABORIGINALITIES
“M. 8”: The populace of Kumangettit
was gathered in the local hall to hear the
shire president open the Fourth Liberty
Loan. Since celebrations were few and
far between, the opportunity had been
taken to combine with the opening a
farewell to a. warrior returning to his
unit after leave. Some preliminary fare-
wells had been got in by that Digger and
his friends, and all were in a happy frame
of mind when the president arose and
gave the royal toast. After the applause
the Digger arose, ignored urgent whis-
pers to the effect that the farewell part
hadn’t yet started, and said; “Mr. Preshi-
de'n’ an’ fellow-reshiden’s, ash the only
accracc-accredited represhentative of hish
Majesty here, I thank you on hish be-
half.” The applause was heard miles away.
* * * *
“Wester”: How’s this for sagacity?
H. O. Elliott, a Forbes (N.S.W.) farmer,
has only to appear at his back door,
rubbing up a knife on, a steel, and
his black -barb will depart for whatever
paddock they happen to be in and bring
the killers up.
* t- * #
“Bo”: Joe Dibley had been doing some
grubbing along the bottom paddock, and
he had left the big gum till last. It was
halfway down the bank of the dry creek.
Soon after wielding the mattock and
long-handled shovel, Joe had excavated
a sizable hole into the bank, and in*
this he crawled to have a go at the tap-
root. Came the whistling sound of a fairly
strong wind; then Joseph became aware
of something else —the trunk, which had
been perpendicular before, was now lean-
ing at an angle towards the bank, and he
was a prisoner. The southerly coming
from across the creek had done the trick.
And, worse, the canting continued as the
wind strengthened, until the space be-
tween the base of the trunk and the limit
of his excavation had been reduced to less
than a foot. Joe tried in the rapidly
shrinking space to chop a way out along
the bank, but after half an hour of short
jabs with the axe all he succeeded in
doing was to get slightly more breathing
room. Giving up at last, he realised that
his only hopes were that either the wind
would swing around in the opposite direc-
tion and bring the tree on an even
keel again or that help would come
before an extra fierce gust brought the
tree over further and crushed him*. At
sunset Joe's head was hard up against the
bank, with the butt only six inches off
his face. He had just about given up all
hope when he heard a “Cooee,” and
the dry croak he emitted brought
boots sliding down the bank. In
ten minutes Hawkins, who had been
co-opted for a search by Joe’s anxious
wife, had chopped a hole along
the bank sufficient for the prisoner
to crawl out of. It was some time before
Joe’s cramped legs were restored to walk-
ing use, and it was quite dark before
rescued and rescuer were on their way
back to the homestead. After thanking
Hawkins briefly but with feeling, Joe
broached another subject. “About the
wife. Jack,” he said, “Do you know
if she” “What, is searchin’ for y’?”
answered Hawkins. “My oath! She went
along the” “No,” said Joe. “I mean,
do y’ know if she fed the fowls? I usually
do it, y’ know.”
* * * *
“Murray Whaler”: Those salt, blue-
stone and charcoal-and-fat dopes for
saving dogs poisoned with strychnine (B.
29/9/’43) are right enough, but every
mong I’ve seen baited has always been
where you least expect it and where you
have none of these commodities. Then
the handiest improvised cure, and one in
great favor along the Murray, is to ram
raw tobacco down the victim’s throat.
I’ve saved many good dogs that way.
What about the non-smoker? say you.
Listen, a cobber dinner-camping alone
“ Cripes , car-strippers !”
on the Murray at Culpra (N.S.W.) saved
his - two kelpies by quick thinking.
Noticing one of the dogs suddenly de-
velop the ominous staggers he went over
to find they had been at a strychnine-
and-fat fox bait. Having no emetic of
any kind he slashed the sweaty edges off
his saddle-cloth and hurled them in his
boiling quart pot for a minute. He
cooled the resultant salt-and-hair brew
off hurriedly in the river and the tykes
got the Idt —down their throats. It did
the trick.
* * $ -1!
“Moyhu”: “Betcha’s” par. (B.
22/9/’43) raises a host of queries on
animal sense. What taught the hound to
go for the throat of large animals, the
chest of smaller prey ; the crow to make
for the eyes ; the foxie to take the rat by
the nape of the neck to avoid being
bitten; the predatory hawk to attack the
head? Few animals attack the stomach.
Recently I saw a film fight between
a cobra and a mongoose; the ani-
mal went straight for the head, not
once releasing the grip until the fight was
over. Snake-killing canines practise the
same technique, but not so invariably,
and occasionally fumble their grip or
take Joe a few inches below the head —
which is why most snake-killing dogs
don’t make old bones.
“Horseless Horseman”: One outcome
of this war will be the wider publicity
given to our littler-known fauna. A
snake that will undoubtedly come into
this category is the giant brown variety
of North Queensland (also found in New
Guinea), reputed to be ;the deadliest
wriggler in the world, with twice as much
venom as any known species—the taipan.
I’ve never seen a specimen south of the
Cairns-Chillagoe railway, nor one that
measured less than six feet. Once at
dawn our dog attacked an eight-foot
visitor to our camp beside the Walsh
River (Cape York Peninsula) and poor
old Bosun was cold before we finished
the 20-minute all-in bout. Among the
things we hurled at the intruder were our
boots, which he bit clean through. After
the knockout I saw the reason on exam-
ining his fangs ; they were over half an
inch long with the grooves nearly closed.
The late Tom Eades (Pambo), until a
year ago snake-catcher for the Com-
monwealth Serum Laboratories, Mel-
bourne, told me this reptile’s biting appa-
ratus was the best in the world.
:{c :jc
“B. 4”: On a cattle station in the Gulf
country we were discussing how it was
that the horses of the Tom Mix era
always stood stock-still in films, or
merely revolved in careful steps. A Pata-
gonian hand, wolfing roast bullock
rib, explained it was the result of the
heavy type of bit used. He stated that
the Hollywood bit was a bar of solid
metal spiralled with a punishing groove
and having in its centre a shaped piece
of metal rod three inches long and
attached at right angles to the bar. This
inverted U-shaped piece normally lay up
the horse’s mouth, but if the prad stepped
on the reins it shot his mouth open and
bruised his palate. After a few mishaps
the moke learned not to tramp on the
dangling reins, which were always left
hanging unbuckled. This bit accounts
for the sudden braking, with spectacular
reefing and air pawing, which stimulated
the admiration of the Tom Mix devotees,
but sprung the fetlocks of his horses. The
reins were never used in guiding the
course ; that was done by knee pressure
and body swerving. While the inverted
U bar may be sanctioned for breaking
in a horse to stand, the thing should be
outlawed for general use.
* * * ( *
“Lower Tops’l”: Touching on the old
Hobart whaler Waterwitch, whose crew
missed in a whale at Port Davey that
1801 b. of ambergris worth £6OOO (B.
8/9/’43). Afterwards all. carcasses were
thoroughly examined, and 18 months later
the crew came on a piece of the waxlike
substance only 171 b. lighter than the rich
1801 b. prize. However, the bluff-bowed,
high-sterned old hooker, with her tumble-
mu?h Ion?er and Tn IO NSv rUn b
Sid fa B from S “uile! ate
whaling out of Hobart consistently for
35 years and from Sydney for 18 years
before that. With no better bid offering
than £9O she was laid up and afterwardl
dismantled. The last Hobart whaler but
one, she took the water in 1820 at Pern-
broke dockyard as H.M.S. Falcon, a 10-
gun frigate, built for the suppression of
the West African slave trade, and proof
of her sailing qualities was that she was
the only Tasmanian whaleship that could
work to windward with a whale lashed
alongside. Her last commander, Captain
G. Attwell, in the front row as a whale-
man, being also an expert sailmaker, ship-
wright, cooper and navigator, died in
Melbourne 10 years ago.
• • • • • •
“Colonial Cove”: Black Louis and
Black Harry (B. 8/9/’43) must surely
have been the last of the “tonguers” if
they operated as late as 1890. Tonguers
followed the whaleships around Aus-
tralia’s southern coasts right from the
beginning of last century, though they
probably were in their prime in the 1830’s
and 1840’s, that being the period when
American and French whalers flocked
thickest to the rich whale fisheries of this
continent. Cast off by the whalers as
not being worth the trouble of rendering
down, the tongue floated and could be
towed to the nearest shore; rendered
down in any sizable pot it yielded a clear
oil much esteemed in the coastal towns
as an illuminant. The tonguers were
usually small-time sealers varying their
occupation. The thinning out of the seal
herds drove many of them to other call-
ings, though it was really the arrival of
kerosene that finally destroyed the trade.
* * * *
“Naturala”: Reading “Wippegong’s”
par. (B. 15/ 9/’43) on how feathered life
reacts to the apparition of the aeroplane
I bethought me of the few score chooks
in my backyard. I live where day by day
huge ’planes skim the housetops as
they glide down to land on a near-by
air base. The chooks take less notice of
them than they do of a stray dog peer-
ing through the fence. Nor have the
shags been scared away from the near-by
river. I see them at their age-old
game of decimating the shoals of smelt
and silvereyes quite unconcerned with
the great mechanical bird that roars
down to land within a few hundred yards
of them. Evidently birds learn, and learn
quickly,
* * * *
“C.E.”: Dad presented himself at the
cowyard as tho. milking was about
finished. “Thought I’d better give y’ a
hand t’ get that new heifer into the bail,
Ma,” he explained. “It ain’t a job for a
woman, breakin’ in a young cow. Y’
ready? Well, help us get this drag chain
on her leg. That’s it. Now, stand back,”
he ordered, flourishing a stockwhip. The
heifer moved forward, felt the
drag and stopped to shake her
head and bawl as the flicking
lash stung her. The old fellow's
voice rose with the cracking
whip. “Nothin’ like showin’ ’em
who’s boss, Ma,” he called, send-
ing the excited beast round the
yard as fast as the drag would
allow. “ ‘Learn ’em,’ that’s my
motter.” In vain he tried to
force the heifer towards the bail.
“I’ll just slip over t’ Simpkins’s
an’ borrow a couple more drags,
Ma,” he decided after a while.
“Won’t be long.” As he dis-
appeared over the rise Ma
slipped off the chain and petted
her old poddy. Then with the
new calf in the head of the bail
she coaxed in her pet, fed her
with cabbage leaves and, fasten-
ing the leg-rope, milked her.
Twenty minutes later Dad re-
turned. “How’d the brute gel
that chain off?” he roared, star-
ing at the heifer as it calmly
cud-chewed in the yard. “I took
it off, Dad,” Ma explained. “I’ve
milked her.” “Yair? Cripes,
lucky break that, Ma,” he
summed up. “But it just shows
y’ can’t beat a good bossin’ an’
a bit o’ chain t’ quieten ’em.”
♦ ■ *
“Mat’s Mate”: The boss wasn’t a bad
sort, but had a somewhat annoying habit
of constantly stating what he did and
didn’t like from his employees. “I like
a bloke that’s workin’ for me not t’ use
bad language,” he’d say, or “When a
bloke works for m,e I don’t like him t’
be grumpy.” Fed up with it, Mat stopped
him one day and said “Here, what makes
y’ think I’m workin’ for you?” The boss
looked at him. “Well, ain’t you?” “No
ruddy fear,” declared Mat. “I’m workin
for meself. ■ And,” he added, thoughtfully
licking his lips, “partly for the publican
in at the Bend.”
* * *I *
“Boxer”: As to champion shed hands
I plump for George Bax, of Hermidale
(N.S.W.). At White Rock shed he
penned up, picked up, skirted, wool-
rolled and pressed for three shearers and
had time to play a game of draughts
with the musterer in between times.
*■ * * *
“Chuck”: We were pretty busy with
other jobs* and the old bloke begrudged
time off for the usual rounds of inspec-
tion. “Have to go though,” he decided.
“Some o’ them ewes are sure to get their
backs downhill, and with the heavy fleece
they’re carryin’ they won’t be able t’ get
up. Good ewes, too! I don’t want to
lose ’em.” Setting out, we rode the near
paddocks, then the old chap looked at
the far range. “Better do it,” he sighed.
“I saved eight or ten by goin’ up there
last week, an’ I skinned half a dozen
others that was too far gone t’ bother
with. Got y’r knife? Awright, skin any-
thing that’s near dead, will y’?” I angled
up the slope, toured the far gullies, visited
the waterholes and finally met the boss
on top of the ridge. “Find anythin ?
he called. “Not a thing.” “By cripes,
neither did I!” he snorted disgustedly,
giving his nag a* boot in the ribs. Here
a man spends a whole flamin’ day ridin
round after ’em an’ —blast it! there ain t
a dead sheep or one down nowhere. Ain t
they cantankerous beasts?,”
RETURN OF THE CUCKOO.
The sun holds the earth like a ripe fruit in his
hand.
Warm yellow rind of gorse and the clear, bright
juice
Of young creeks welling and rushing; and
through broken flesh
The cool brown pips of the brackened foothills
stand.
Red heath is goading the slope with a sanguined
spur,
The thin, harsh mane of the wild grass, flecked
with puce,
Tongues in the fire of the gallop; and, tranced
in a mesh
Of dream, the dragonflies wheel on their sentry
flight.
Under the blue half-moon of the southern sky
Tall myrtles rock in steep cradles of crystal air;
The swings of their dark leaf coverings catch the
light
And toss it back and forth like a silver ball.
Robins with eyes of black dew eagerly pry
Among dimpled hollows of trees where white
boughs rear
To hurdles of wind, while their shadows flicker
and fall
On Coverts of wild boronia. Up a shining stair
Of clematis climbs a black squad of small
ground bees
Important with song and quick with the sap of
life.
Loving it all, I think “There is nothing to add
To such beauty as this; it is perfect!”. .. And
then the trees
Pulse to the plaint of his music, the wind is rife
With his song, bewitchingly sweet, enchantingly
sad ;•
Down through the wattle glades and red heath-
lands he comes,
Past the dark swinging myrtles and under the
gums.
I know him, the Romany rye, the wandering
tramp!
I know him, the bearded singer with his con-
juring tricks
Bringing back green child memories; shuffle
and stamp
Of feet in the old bush school, and the clock
that ticks
Like a death-watch on the shelf and reluctantly
moves
Its hands from second to second though your
eyes are a prayer
And your heart is away in the gully far from
the grooves
Of monotonous study; the rough, slab, splintery
walls
Hold your body a prisoner, while down in the
warm scrub there
The buff-breasted cuckoo wanders, and calls and
calls.
TASMANIA.
NORMA L. DAVIS.


“Zake”: The talk was of big sheds.
“Bulloo” Webster boasted that at Curlew
Downs the boss had to traverse the board
with horse and trap, s» long was it.
“Ocker” Simpson quoted the legendary
“Crooked” Mick of Speewah Bluff shed
•and the duffs he cooked for the shearers,
which were so big that they had to be
cut up with the circular saw. Then
came Joe the Rocker: “When I was
at Bulwarra shed in Western Queensland
in the big drought the shearers had
a rack in and the winner dragged out 150
quid. That was the time the babbler was
nearly drownded.” “How could he been
in danger of drownin’ in a big drought—
there wouldn’t been any water in the
dam or river out there?” put in “Slim”
Taylor. Joe was undisturbed by the
interruption. “It wasn’t either in the
river or dam, see?” he said. “The bab
had gone out in a raft to stir the tea and
a willy-willy blew up!”
* * * *
“Jahhris”; There’s an idea for ship-
wrecked mariners in fishing with cobweb.
Yes, cobweb. The Solomon Islanders
have perfected the method. They collect
a ball of a particularly sticky type of
web from the jungle. The canoes drift on
the current down from the entrance to a
lagoon or passage ; a small kite is flown
from the stem, the cord continuing from
the kite down to the water; at the end
of the cord trails the sticky ball of web.
When the fish snatches at it its small
teeth become enmeshed in the web ; the
pull drags the kite down and at that sig-
nal the fish is hauled inboard. The kite
allows the line to drop direct to the
water and there’s no telltale drag of the
line through the water, nor any shadow.
It’s a picturesque method of catching
breakfast and an ingenious one ; so in-
genious that it brought some of its prac-
titioners under the notice of U.S. Intelli-
gence, charged with signalling to the
Japanese. Who’d go fishing with a kite
and cobweb?
* * * *
“Bad Australian”; “Anthropo’s” asser-
tion (B. 6/10/ ’43) that George Grey had
never seen game country such as Africa
or North America has no bearing on the
point at issue. The explorer’s remarks
referred only to the game he found in
north-west Australia. Burke and Wills
died from starvation because they were
too inexperienced in bushcraft to live off
the country; their abo. friends appear
to have had no difficulty in feeding them-
selves while sparing something for the
famished explorers. Nor was there any-
thing unusual in overlanders killing for
meat some of the animals they were
driving. The overlander was never
partial to kangaroo, wallaby, wombat or
emu meat; when he killed a beast he
was acting according to custom and
preference, rather than from a dearth of
native game. No leader woxthy of the
name would have sent a member of his
party out to hunt for meat over country
infested with wild and, in the majority
of cases, hostile blacks, except in a case
of dire necessity. If the overlanders
cited by “Anthropo” encountered
“abundance of blacks” on their journeys
it follows that there must also have been
an abundance of native game to afford
subsistence for those blacks.
* * *
“Billy See”: As to the Australian’s
adaptability to climatic, change (B.
15/9/’43), I’ve marvelled at it many
times. And at the immigrant’s inadapt-
ability. Just prior to the 1914 war I
worked with a Scotsman straight from
the Hielands. When Jamie’s first winter
arrived I expected to see him practically
discarding clothes, for everyone knows
what is called winter in south-west W.A.
would be reckoned summer where the
laddie came from. But I found Jamie
i o ,, h ;? ov i r “ at r : he m c ,r£fv
that he felt the Australian cold bitterly.
I have found scores of other “Home”
same J fancy it arises from
the Old Country habit of sitting over a
fire on every possible occasion. 1 Know
migrants who kept, and still • keep, a big
fire going all day during the winter. And
, , P , ./
I have found the Auss e face up to the
other extremity equally well. Back
in the days of Coolgardie one always
“Sorry, lady—registered customers only!”
recognised the newchum from the Old
Dart by his affectation of special summer
clothing, pith helmet, khaki suit, etc.
With temperatures around the century
for weeks I knew tough old Australians
who refused even to discard the waist-
coat. And I met them out on the desert
prospecting, always in thick clothes and
a felt hat and not seldom the old “hard-
hitter.”
* * * *
“Pat Ater”: It’s not strength, as
“Botano” suggests (B. 6/10/’43), but re-
silience which enables the Norfolk Island
pine to remain perpendicular and sym-
metrical in spite of searing southerly
gales. Its tensile strength is in part due
to an elastic outer bark, and it is en-
dowed by Nature with an ability also to
absorb salt spray. For resilience it has
a counterpart in the Mediterranean or
pencil cypress (Cupressus semperviretts).
One in my garden is about 20 feet high
and can be pulled almost to ground level,
then released like a giant catapult-sling.
It never deviates. But for other Austra-
lian trees, graceful and able to weather
“Just what DID you see out on patrol, sarge?”
the worst winds, I’ll nominate the shapely
“Sally Wattles” that dot the rolling hilly
landscapes near Robertson (N.S.W.).
They get everything that blows there,
both west and south, yet they retain a
rounded dainty charm which induced a
visitor to declare he thought he was back
in the hills of Derbyshire.
* * * *
“Uramao”: Ornithologists in Maori-
land are speculating on the reason for
the presence for the first time there of
the spine-tailed swift and whether the
country will in future share in the migra-
tion of these birds from Eastern Asia and
Japan. Tasmania is the southern ter-
minus of the wanderers, and it is assumed
by bird-lore authority E. F.. Stead that
the birds were caught in a cyclone on
the way and driven to their new haunts.
The swifts have been seen from Auck-
land to South Canterbury.
* * * *
“Old-timer”; Alf the Flier, a flam-
boyant sort of bloke who generated up-
roar as naturally as gas generates an
explosion, never came to town unless
behind or aboard the wildest neddy he
could find. In time, the place got more
or less used to the spectacle of Alfred
coming down the main street at full
gallop, yelling at the top of his voice,
whirling his horse under verandahs, jump-
ing it over hedges, urging it into hotel
bars. If he was driving, his buggy mostly
bounced and twisted behind a couple of
wild-eyed chestnuts, what time mothers
shepherded offspring to safety, and the
town hounds joyfully took after Alf. One
day the local agent tried to sell The Flier
a tractor. “Let’s give it a go,” said Alf,
hopping into the seat. The agent started
the thing up. “Can you drive?” he asked
anxiously.. “Drive!” roared Alf. “I can
drive anything in hair or hide, an’ a
dashed hunk of iron and stink and rubber
ain’t goin’ t’ stop me.” Whereupon the
agent jumped seven feet backward as
Alf opened the throttle, shot the tractor
into gear and went roaring in a wide half-
circle the street. He tore past
the post office, under the pub verandah,
taking a couple of the posts out, roared
round the corner, circled the pub yard.
skittling empty kegs and stacked boxes
and scaring seven days’ growth out of
the cook, and raced out on to the open
road, where he zigzagged madly, smash-
ing down culverts and bushes, tearing up
wire fences and generally playing the
devil. Ten miles out the frantic agent
overtook a silent tractor, with Alf,
bruised and blowing, draped over the
seat. “Well, I’m sorry,” said the agent,
all thoughts of a sale wiped from his
head. “But if you’d only waited I could
have shown you these things are easy to
handle.” “Easy to handle!” cried Alf,
“Boy, she’ll do me!” He turned and
looked back at the trail of wreckage,
then patted the tractor affectionately. “Y’
couldn’t do that with a flamin’ team o’
Clydesdales,” he said reverently.
* * * *
“B. 4”: After considerable cogitation
have at long last resolved the secret of
those wizards of the Murray in
the waving snake. Having spent the interim
in observing the habits and movements of
snakes of divers hues, sizes, shapes, types
and avoirdupois, I noted that certain
species, when advancing, made the first
bend to the right, others to the left; each
successive curve of the reptilian inflexion
following in the wake of its predecessor.
By empirical contrivings, I evolved a rifle
with the correct dual curve to circum-
vent these manoeuvres. Equipped with
this marvellous model, you merely aim
at the snake’s face and surprise the curves,
thus decapitating him. Should the first
fire announce the wrong type of slitherer,
reverse his progress, and then shoot him
asunder as he is departing on the correct
curve. Of course, the more expensive the
rifle the more superb the rifle waves.
* * * *
“Wester”: Our local auctioneer sells
all sorts of things, from goods at jumble
sales to million-acre stations. He’s a bit
of a humorist, too, but he never meant
to bring the house down as he did the
day when, fresh from selling off a lot
of damaged crockery to urgent house-
wives, he mounted the rostrum in the
sheepyards, surveyed the penned jum-
bucks and the buyers, and announced
automatically “Remember now, one only
to each customer,”
* * * *
“Moyhu”: “Bill Kelso and I were
camped in a two-roomed hut on the
Kiewa,” related Big Fred, “and the
tucker kept doin’ the disappearin’ trick
of a night. We were miles from a store,
and things were gettin’ serious. Butter,
flour and other things kept goin’ off. We
knew it wasn’t a man unless he got down
the stove pipe, because the winders was
stuck permanent, and we had cases shoved
up against the doors. At last we found
the thief in the ceilin’ —a ring-tailed
possum. Bill runs him into a corner and
grabs him in a sugar-bag. Cornin’ down
he rubs off a bit of skin here and there,
and that don’t improve his temper. Then
he takes the possum outside an’ reaches
for a waddy. ‘Them things are pro-
tected,’ I says. Bill gives me a black
look. ‘So was them things in the tucker-
box,’ he says.”
* * * *
“K.McC.”i The colorful beginning of
Euston (B. 7/7/’43) recalls Went-
worth, Wentworth came into being
as an outback outpost ip 1851, four
hotels strong, on the site where Cap-
tain Sturt in 1830 hoisted the Union
Jack on discovering that the Darling
entered the Murray, and on the site
where 14 years later, he camped on his
way to find an “inland sea.” In the
’sixties, ’seventies and ’eighties the town,
with its large Government offices, bond
stores, spacious gaol, etc., was capital of
a territory larger than many European
countries, a territory which, beyond river-
steamers, knew no transport except horse
or bullock vehicles and no other law ex-
cept that administered from the town.
A great droving centre, it became
N.S.W.’s second port; in 1883 more
than 300 steamers were entered out of
the port with cargoes valued at nearly
li million. Four years later, however,
saw the birth of Mildura, 18 miles away,
and Wentworth, which had previously
sapped Euston’s glory, died away to an
insignificant outback township.
* * * *
“The 0.D.”: The writer of that par.
about the pair of guinea fowls which
made the 100-mile trip home in Victoria
(B 13/10/’43) suggests that they are
flightless birds. The ones I hobnob with
often take a long flight around the place
for fun and will take to the air from
strangers.
* * * *
“Pec.”: The night was a real scorcher,
so the boss decided to doss outside for a
change. The rest of the family lay in bed
and sweltered, counted sheep and listened
to the snores proceeding from under the
trees, interspersed with an occasional roar
at a dreamtime bullock which wasn t pull-
ing its weight. About 2 a.m. the three
greyhound pups ventured up towards the
killing yard, but a dingo had the same
idea. Somersaulting in their tracks the
pups lit out for home and safety, diving
under two lots of three-rail fencing with-
out losing a hair. Down the flat they
hammered, scorched round the corner of
the trap shed straight under the boss s
bunk. The boss thought all the bunyips
in the scrub had jumped on him, aild his
roars of surprise were mingled with the
pups’ yelps of fear. Even today those
hounds cock a wary eye at the killing
yard and the boss.
THE CREEK.
In a marsh where never the reed-birds sing,
And no bird else surprises
Th<> sombre scene with its carolling, ;
The creek that I write of rises.
Slow steals its tide where no bright flowers
bloom
And naught day-through rejoices,
While harshly at dusk the bittern’s boom
The gloom of its birthplace voices.
Tis little it knows, as forth it goes
Upon its wayward journey
Through flats where the crooning swamp-oak
grows,
Of banks green-grassed and ferny.
Unlike bright waters ’neath gracious trees
That prattle on unmuted,
No song it sings and no vision sees
Of fair lands, cropped and fruited.
’Neath skies of azure and sunless skies
From pool to pool it passes,
While hidden anigh it the black snake lies
Abed in the coarse, marsh ‘grasses.
And yet,' though it creeps through a dismal
waste,
When darkness above it hovers
The moon, upclimbing the heavens, slow-paced,
A grace in that creek discovers.
Then like to a silver scarf it seems,
Made thus by the light she squanders,
And seen from the hills where the high road
gleams
By whoso thereon wanders.
N.S.W.
RODERIC QUINN.


Australian, Mercantile, Land & Finance
Company, Limited
(INCORPORATED IN ENGLAND IN 1803),
WOOL, FAT STOCK, STORE AND STUD STOCK,
PRODUCE AND PROPERTY SALESMEN
General Manager for Australia: R. SINCLAIR SMITH.
ADVANCES MADE ON GRAZING PROPERTIES, ON STOCK, AND ON
CONSIGNMENTS OF WOOL, SKINS, HIDES, TALLOW, ETC.
LICENSED AUCTIONEERS, STOCK AND STATION AGENTS.
SYDNEY OFFICE; A. M. MURDOCH, Manager.
ALSO AT MELBOURNE, BRISBANE, NEWCASTLE, WAGGA, HENTY, HAY, MOREE,
TOWNSVILLE, CHARLEVILLE, BUENOS AIRES, LONDON.
GENERAL AGfeNTS IN NEW SOUTH WALES FOR NORTHERN ASSURANCE CO., LTD.
FOR MINERAL MIXTURES AND LICKS
FOR BONE-CHEWING CATTLE
nli-GJi-O*-
rJAJi- Sterilised
BONE FLOUR
TO REMEDY PHOSPHORUS DEFICIENCY
IN PASTURES AND FODDERS
Tri-cal-os Bone Flour is purely a bone product without admixture
of any other substance. It contains a guaranteed minimum of
32.5 per cent, phosphoric acid and 40 per cent, lime.
All particulars from:—
DAVIS GELATINE, G.P.O. BOX 35835, SYDNEY.
G.P.O. Box 4068, Melbourne. G.P.O. Box 758 K, Brisbane.
G.P.O. Box 712 F, Adelaide. G.P.O. Box 688, Perth.
EGELABRA MERINOS
RAMS FOR SALE
APRIL, 1942, DROP. SHORN APRIL, 1943.
NOW READY FOR DELIVERY.
Early application is advised for these Rams,
which are very suitable for Spring and Summer
Joining.
PRICE: FIVE to TEN GUINEAS. .
H. E. KATER & SON,
EGELABRA ;; TEL.; WARREN 10 ;;
' a*
u.
i*
WARREN, N.S.W.
QUICK and DEADLY
KILL THOSE RABBITS
with
k
(Regd.)
SAVE
MANPOWER
“IT’S THE GAS THAT KILLS THEM”
CYANOGAS quickly, cheaply, cleanly and safely destroys rabbits and all
vermin. Economical, easy to use. No waste. PROTECTS YOUR SHEEP.
Obtainable from
all Storekeepers
throughout Australia.
BUZACOTT-WOLSELEY PTY..LTD.,
7-11 MARKET STREET, SYDNEY.
THE MAN ON
THE LAND
"DON'T WORRY, I'M SENDING IT TO
GRAZCOS."
The Small Crossbred Clip.
“Sheepo”: Classing of these clips is
rarely good. Growers not confident of
being able to ensure a reasonable get-up
should merely skirt the fleeces, bale fleece
wool and skirtings separately and send
the lot away for reclassing. Give reclass-
ing one test, and proof wduld be forth-
coming of how advantageous it is. Those
who want to class the clip should watch
the following points: (1) Don’t overskirt
and overclass. (2) Remove all stains
and dags. (3) No matter how small the
clip, don’t mix skirtings and bellies. If
not enough of either to make a bale, put
them in butts or bags. (4) Keep rams’
fleeces separate, and don’t put a couple
of these fleeces in the middle of other
bales.
In a mixed crossbred clip of up to
1000 sheep length of staple will form the
best guide and will invariably determine
the spinning quality. Unless the flock is
hopelessly mixed, the shorter-stapled wool
will be the finer, and the most lengthy
the strongest. In an average crossbred
flock it should be possible to make
straight grades, the first line comprising
the finest quality and the shortest in
staple. It may range from comeback to
quarter-bred, but if sufficient of each two
separate lots are advisable. Next line
will be fleeces inclining towards half-
bred, being longer in staple and stronger
in quality. The remaining line will be
those fleeces around about the three-
quarter-bred, being the longest-stapled and
coarsest-fibred fleeces. Wool from Lin-
coln, Leicester or other English breeds
should be baled separately.
In skirtings freedom from stains is
essential, and, although length of staple
and quality of fibre must of necessity
be irregular, two grades should suffice,
the best pieces from the comeback and
quarter-bred to comprise one lot and
those from the half-bred and threequarter-
bred the other. Two similar sorts will be
sufficient for lambs’ wool, but stains must
be taken out.
Bales should be branded distinctly on
the square side. Towards the top the
name of the property or the owner’s
brand, then the class of woof and number
of the bale. On the bottom the brand
and number should also be stencilled.
When forwarding to woolbroker a de-
tailed specification should be sent along
giving all information considered neces-
sary. Careful get-up of even the smallest
of clips may mean a difference of Id. or
so per pqjind. ,
Fodder Storage.
“8.C.”: The reluctance of Australians
to put the stuff away in normal times is
notorious. Despite intense campaigning
by all sorts of bodies from departments
of agriculture to local show societies,
assisted by press and radio, the country
was always short of stored fodder in
peace-time. Now, though many districts
have a lush growth of green stuff, it
looks as though it will go to waste, the
excuse of man-power shortage being
ready to hand and readily seized upon.
And the excuse is sound. There isn't
any casual labor to be had ; most farmers’
sons have either enlisted, been drafted
into the militia or man-powered into
other occupations. All the same, a little
co-operative effort can achieve wonders,
as was proved in the shearing season,
when neighbors rallied to each other’s
help and the wool—oq small places at
least—was got off.
Some sort of organisation is needed to
deal with the fodder position. It
shouldn’t be hard to pick a suitable
central spot in the midst of, say, five or
six farms and concentrate on it enough
teams, tractors, scoops and men to carve
“Oughter bin there long ago—coupla nasty corners between ’ere
and town.”
out enough silage trenches to hold a
couple of hundred tons of green stuff. It
should be no harder to set aside a few
days on which all hands coufd concen-
trate on the available greenstuff and get
it into the pits and covered. In some
districts local townspeople might be found
ready to give up a Saturday afternoon
or Sunday to such a working bee.
Doubtless plenty of objections can be
found to this idea, but all the objec-
tions in the world won’t be worth much
if next winter is dry. A silage depot
holding 200 tons of fodder would be
something to write home about.
Salad Vegetables.
“Pat Ater”: Sowing, planting and
cultivation of main salad crops are the
home-gardener’s jobs for coming weeks.
A good start and a sound foundation
are halfway to success. Vegetables that
get their roots into a well-tilled soil, pro-
vided with ample humus, can fight their
way through trouble.
You can’t grow lettuce, tomatoes, red
beets and radishes without attention to
details. These are mainly—apart from
watering—soil stirring, spraying, tying
and removing laterals (of tomatoes) and
liquid feeding (of lettuce). Even mustard
and cress need moisture and preferably
half shade for summer work. Small
patches, sown direct and often, are the
best way to grow these tasty salad extras,
which can be cut within three weeks of
sowing. Radishes, too, grow quickly and
tender if they get the water and soil is
made up to fertility point, especially with
old stable or dairy manure.
See that grourld for lettuce is made up
well * with farm manure and fertiliser,
which grow lush leaves and induce
hearting. In districts of high rainfall add
lime —a good ration, say |lb. to lib. of
hydrate to each square yard—as well.
Dig it in some weeks before sowing,
about Sin. deep. Then add the manures.
Dried blood or blood and bone is a
good base for leaf growth. Sulphate of
ammonia is next best, a handful to each
square yard. About Him of old stable
or dairy manure provides the humus and
the nitrogen basis for poor or over-
worked soil.
Before sowing seed break the topsoil
finely and drop the seeds sparsely into
iin. drills, so that subsequent thinning to
Tin. or 9in. apart (according to variety)
can be done. Cover thinly with light soil
or sand and sifted manure. Don’t allow
the surface to dry. Remember that
warmth and water are the requisites for
summer lettuce. Applications of nitrate
of soda to moist root soil later hastens
growth and makes solid hearts. Mig-
nonette is still good for small-family lots.
Imperial is the pick of the large fellows.
Soil needn’t be overrich to start
tomatoes. You can liquid- or surface-
feed later to fill the fruit clusters. That
is the time, too, to see that water is
given generously. Staked and tied, with
laterals removed, tomatoes give the best
fruit, irrespective of variety. Space 15in.
to 18in. with 3ft. between rows.
Wage war against pests and disease.
Spray weekly with tartar emetic to beat
the bronze wilt, with Bordeaux against
blight, and be ready for tomato mite and
borer with lime-sulphur or sulphur dusts
and arsenate of lead. It reads like a
sorry outlook, but needn’t be so bleak.
Tomatoes are precious. Break o’ Day,
Marglobe, Bonny Best and Burwood
Prize are all good. Potentate for the
cooler tablelands.
Poisoning Timber.
“K.Mc,”: The job should be done
when the sap is up and the bark flies
freely. Frill at ground level or as low
as possible and only just nick into the
sapwood. Caustic soda is too expensive
for big jobs. Boil 20gal. of water in a
large drum and dissolve in it 301 b. wash-
ing soda. While keeping it well stirred
add 301 b. of pure white arsenic, bit by
bit. Stir as long as the arsenic tends to
froth. When the mixture will bubble
without frothing the arsenic is dissolved.
With large quantities this takes only
about ten minutes.
To apply, use a gallon tin with a screw
top. Puncture a tiny hole in one corner
and allow the mixture to jet out through
this into the frill. The trees start to die
within a few days. If there is any mois-
ture in the soil you can expect a nice
crop of seedlings if you set fire to a
newly-killed block.
Hints for the Farm.
“M.”; Don’t feed the sow heavily
during the first two days after farrowing,
but provide plenty of drinking water or
milk. Gradually increase the ration
until, at the end of the first week, she is
having all she can eat either in three
feeds daily or from a self-feeder. Keep
the feed up to her for the rest of the
eight weeks of the suckling period.
“W.C.”: Graziers and farmers might
plant a few carob bean trees for the
benefit of their inheritors. They’re legu-
minous, which means that they draw all
their nitrogen from the air and enrich the
soil. Splendid long grass grows all round
a thriving tree —an amazing sight to
farmers used to seeing poor grass around
trees. . Carobs grow in dry districts.
The beans, about 9in. long, are borne in
great profusion by female trees. They
may be allowed to fall as they mature
or may be gathered and stored. Ground,
they mix well with other fodders. Feed-
ing value is high and stock take to them.
Seeds and plants are on the market. The
only disadvantage is that it takes nearly
20 years for a tree to come into full
bearing.
Velvet beans are good
summer legumes for heavy-rainfall areas
in Queensland or the N.S.W. North
Coast. October to November’s the plant-
ing time, 15in. to 18in. the width between
beans and 3ft. to 4ft. between rows.
They do well with maize. Plant the
maize first and miss every third or fourth
row. Four to six weeks later plant the
beans. This mixture makes good silage.
For hay, harvest when the beans flower;
cock for a few days before stacking. The
beans do well on soils too acid for
lucerne or clovers.
“Goulburn”: Pick thyme and sage on a
dry day when they have just about
reached the flowering stage. Dip in
water, remove decayed leaves, lie on
cheesecloth, put in a slow oven and dry
quickly by gradually increasing the heat.
Remove, pick leaves from stalks and
store in airtight bottles. Celery leaves
may be treated similarly.
“Myrr”: If no wire netting is available
for protecting young fruit-trees from
hares, apply a mixture of loz. bitter aloes,
11b. common soap cut finely and one
gallon water. Boil ingredients for about
20 minutes, and when cool brush or
swab tree butts and lower branches.
Hares can reach up almost three feet.
“Esk D.”; Good, strong ladders are
easily made from straight saplings about
four inches in diameter. Bore Him
holes 15in. apart in a line, then rip the
stick down the centre across the holes
with a saw. Split timber may be trimmed
with an axe for the rungs. Tap the ladder
together carefully to avoid splitting, and
nail through each rung-hole.


%■
k *
m
i-
TH
m
*0
-4
Xj;*-
U
■" :4
\\
ZK
t V
''■*
JOHN LYSa CHT
(RVSTRRIIR) PTT. LTD.
SYDNEY - MELBOURNE - BRISBANE - ADELAIDE - PERTH
® \wuSBH
STATE EXPRESS
/
:
V/A
Back fhe affack! Lend fill they crackl
Subscribe to fhe 4fh Liberfy Loan.
19S9D-11 42
UNCABLED ADDITIONS
Mihailovitch.
(From an article by the editor of London
“Nineteenth Century.”)
If any foreign Power —no matter what
foreign Power the Balkans,
then the security of the eastern Medi-
terranean, and, therefore, of the Mediter-
ranean as a whole, of British Imperial
communications, of Egypt, of the Straits,
of Palestine and of Iraq, is threatened.
If, when the war is over, there is dis-
integration in the Balkans, it will be
necessary for England to intervene not
to dominate, but to prevent them from
being dominated. If disintegration per-
sists, then a Continental Power will inter-
vene —and will dominate. A vital interest
of England’s will then be endangered and
there will be stuff for a Third World War.
Nowhere is disintegration so far ad-
vanced as in Yugoslavia, the principal
Balkan country. It would have advanced
even further were it not for the indomit-
able spirit of a nation and of the man
who has emerged as the leader of tfiat
nation —-Drazha Mihailovitch, a hero-
patriot, and one of the greatest figures nn
the ‘Second World War.
In Yugoslavia the Germans have done
to a hundred towns and villages what
they did to Lidice. The Partisan move-
ment has swept the country in a savage
Jacquerie. The atrocities committed by
the Croat Ustashis are more bestial than
anything even the Germans have done.
It was in the autumn of 1941 that the
name of Drazha Mihailovitch became
known as the principal leader of the Chet-
niks and as the embodiment of Yugoslav
national resistance.
By the end of 1941 it became clear that
the Chetniks were a force the enemy
would haye to reckon with. They may
have numbered 100,000. They do not
appear to have had one tank or aero-
plane or one heavy gun, and were at war
with disciplined and well-equipped Ger-
man, Italian, Hungarian, Bulgarian and
Croatian armies.
They were also at war with the Parti-
sans, because the social revolution, carried
out by men who, although mostly Serbs,
came from other parts, threatened to dis-
organise the whole economic life of the
country, besides compelling the local
peasantry to defend their homesteads and
their families. It is true that the Parti-
sans fought the Germans, and with great
courage, whenever they could. But they
were nevertheless a menace to the work
which Mihailovitch had undertaken.
During the present-year, Mihailovitch
has been able to improve his position.
He is all the more dangerous to the enemy
because, if he were to give the signal,
there would be a general rising through-
out Serbia and Slovenia, and disturbances
even in Croatia, with repercussions in
Bulgaria and Greece, which if coincident
with an Allied landing might prove dis-
astrous to the Germans.
Mihailovitch is recognised an as Allied
commander by the British War Office.
It is true that Mihailovitch has not always
been a model of compliancy. He is fight-
ing one of the most terrible battles of
the war, a battle that has been going on
for more than two years amid unimagin-
able conditions of hardship. This battle
is one of the greatest epics in the whole
history of warfare. That the delays and
difficulties created by political bias against
him, by incomprehension of what is hap-
pening in the Balkans, and by bureau-
cratic pettiness in London should, at
times, have exasperated him to the last
degree, and that in his utterances he has
not always referred to his Allies in the
most flattering terms, seems to us natural.
It is certainly no reason for not giving
him all the support, moral and material,
that can be given. It is true that Eng-
land supports Mihailovitch. But it can-
not seem so to those who, at the risk of
their lives, listen in to the 8.8. C. What
are those who live in the darkness of
the German “New Order” as though in
a vast prison, and to whom the sound of
every voice from England is food and
drink and light, to imagine when they
observe that the name of Mihailovitch is
mentioned as seldom as can be, and that
the word “Chetnik,” a glorious name
throughout the Balkans, is never men-
tioned at all. Guerrillas and Patriots
occur in the news bulletins and talks,
sometimes Partisans, but Chetniks never-
What are they to think when they find
that Mihailovitch is commonly referred
to as “Fascist”?
The legend that Mihailovitch is a
“Fascist” is constantly being replenished
by references to the fact that there was
a barter and a kind. of semi-armistice
between him and the Italians so as to
obtain ammunition and to secure his rear.
Is Stalin “a Fascist” because, to secure
his rear, he maintains diplomatic and
commercial relations with Japan?
Nothing Rotten in Denmark.
(From a “New Republic” article by C. H. W.
Hasselriis, Director National American Denmark
Association .)
When Nazis went to King Christian
and demanded that Denmark institute
anti-Jewish laws, the King replied,
“But, you see, we have no Jewish prob-
lem here. We do not consider ourselves
inferior to them.” The implication left
the. Nazis angry but helpless. The King
then attended services in a synagogue, m
full court regalia.
The Nazi Gestapo chief in Denmark,
Werner Best (whose work the Danes re-
fer to as “Bestial”), demanded that ten
torpedo boats, a large part of the Danish
Navy, be handed over. When the Nazis
were reminded of their promise that the
navy should remain intact in Danish
hands, they protested that they had been
misunderstood: they wanted only to hire
the ships. .
“The Danish Navy is not for hire,
retorted the King.
“Then we shall take it, anyway. Pre-
pare the ships for surrender to us,” ex-
claimed the Nazi chief.
The Danes dismanted the ships, taking
all guns and equipment ashore to a store-
house. Thereupon the storehouse burned
to the ground. The Nazis issued an order
that no mention of the torpedo boats
be made in the newspapers ; so the King
commanded all Danish flags to fly at
half-mast, and shook hands with the 800
crew members.
When the Germans announced a scrap
drive Denmark blossomed out with
signs, “Hide your scrap.” Whenever
British airmen have come down in Den-
mark and been captured they have been
deluged with flowers and gifts.
For a while the Germans pretended
that there was no sabotage in Denmark.
But skies glow nightly with fires, which
were rare in peace-time. Explosions
damage rail lines, piers and bridges.
Metal shavings appear in butter going to
Germany. Fish shipped there is de-
cayed.
There is constant traffic between Eng-
land and Denmark. Danes escape via
Sweden, and, aided by the R.A.F., come
back by parachute, travelling freely
over Denmark, sheltered and helped by
all Danes. The Nazis repeatedly offer
large cash awards for delivery of anti
German Danes, but so far not a single
offer has been taken up.
The Nazis have taken half the superb
Danish cattle herds, three-fourths of the
pigs, five-sixths of the poultry, the out-
put of cement and the use of tlfe ship-
yards. . j
Alter three years of the blessings and
beguilements of the Nazis, Denmark
actually had a free popular election.
“This shows how broad and generous we
are,” said their captors. But the vote
stunned the Germans \ it was the biggest
election ever held in Denmark. The
2,000,000 votes cast represented 90. per
cent, of the electorate, about 55 per cent,
of the population. The Nazi party in
Denmark received less than two per
cent, of the votes.
Post-war Questions.
(Asked by N.Y. “Journal-American" financial
editor Leslie Gould.)
Here are- some of the political prob-
lems that must be faced before the war in
Europe ends:
How are Italy and Germany to be
treated? Are they to be allowed to con-
tinue as industrial nations, particularly
Germany? Or are they to be turned into
light-consumer-goods and agricultural
nations?
Are the Baltic States and Poland and the
little Balkan nations to be reconstituted


shape of things to come is being
formed to-day! In the sky ... on sea and land .. .
and in the quickening beat of war production, the
tempo of Victory is already ringing in Axis ears.
But, without money, the war effort must come to a
stop machines cannot work; nor ships sail; nor
planes fly. Lend your money and lend it now!
Invest in National Savings# Bonds and War Savings
Certificates. Unlist your money in Active Service .
iFO
sr
yttP
This advertisement is inserted by the
Breks Trousers
Sovereign Hats
proprietors of Top Dog Men’s Wear
WM
10 for 1/1
20 for 2/2
Kl 19
i
BACK THE ATTACK
Subscribe all you can
to the 4th Liberty Loan
J06S e
according to the Atlantic Charter? Or
are some of these to go into Russia?
Is Communism to be allowed in other
countries in Europe?
How long and how large a police
force is to be maintained in Europe?
How long an armistice before the
peace—a matter of a year or several
years?
What is to happen to France? To
Spain?
How is Africa to be developed? What
is to become of the Italian colonies
there? Those of other nations ?
What is to happen in China? In
Burma? Manchuria? Is Hong Kong to
be returned to Britain? What sort ofi
Government is to be allo'wed in Japan?
Will Communism be allowed in certain
Chinese provinces bordering Siberia?
What bases is the U.S.A. to get in the
Pacific?
To these political problems can be
added such economic questions as:
What indemnities are to be paid by the
defeated nations and, if so, how collected?
How are the currencies of the world to
be stabilised?
How is Lease-Lend to be settled?
How is the United States to be recom-
pensed for the billions in assets it has
spread around the world in bases, ports
and so forth?
How is international aviation to be set
up? What kind of competition? Who
gets what bases and so forth?
How is the merchant marine of the
world to be organised and divided?
How are the occupied countries to be
unscrambled economically, after the
near four years of German looting by
direct theft and indirect theft through
currency and market manipulation?
How is reconstruction of the world to
be financed?
How is international trade to be
organised?
Dragnet Digest
( Condensed from various acknowledged sources .)
The R.A.F. raid in August which rocked
Berlin with 2016 tons of bombs was accom-
plished at a cost of $29,000,000 worth of four-
engine bombers, 58 in number.— N.Y. ‘‘Daily
Mirror.”
' i|:
Barbershop strategists have it all figured out
that Japan is a pipsqueak that will be blown
off the face o f the earth as soon as we polish
off Germany or Soviet Russia gives us her Far
Eastern bases. President Roosevelt seems to
share a version of this view. America’s last
Ambassador to Tokyo, Joseph C. Grew, on the
other hand, has cried again and again that the
U.S. has dangerously underestimated Japan’s
strength. Our armies in the Pacific seem to
share this view. Two probabilities emerge.
One is that Japan is apparently prepared to
sacrifice the awesome total of 5,000,000 men in
a war of attrition in its “outer Empire” con-
quered since Pearl Harbor. The other is that,
given five years of frantic industrial prepara-
tion, Japan can be the most powerful military
nation on earth, quite possibly too strong to be
conquered even by the U.S. and Britain —‘‘Life.”
* * * *
A report on German air-power is that they
now have more ’planes than at the start of the
war, despite heavy casualties. The Nazis
switched from manufacture of bombers to
fighters, produced faster; with bombers appar-
ently abandoned, they turn out fighters at a
tremendous rate. German fighter* production
is believed around 3000 to 3500 per month. —
N.Y. “Daily Mirror.’''
* * *
Seven Empires are at war. Three of them,
die Russian, the German and the Japanese,
nave a strong foreign policy which is subordi-
nated to definite imperial purpose. This was
true until now of another of the seven Empires,
Italy, but she can have no other policy hence-
forth than to survive as a nation, for as an
Empire she is doomed. It would seem to be
true of the United States of America. It is
said that the Americans are becoming imperial-
istic, with the implication that imperialism is a
vice to which the virtuous English are not
addicted. An Empire must, however, be imperial-
istic, and it must have an imperial conception
and a sense of imperial destiny if it is to
survive. If the Americans are imperialistic,
so much the better for them. If the English
are so no longer, so much the worse. — London
“Nineteenth Century.*•’
❖ * * %
Representative Clare Boothe Luce (R.-Conn.)
has coined a synonym for globaloney. Refer-
ring to all of the New Deal’s “windy talk” of
world councils, regional federations, world gov-
ernment, world police forces or another League
of Nations, the perky Congresswoman from
Connecticut lumped it all together under a
single term —“dazzle dust.”— N.Y. “Sun.”
H* H*
It is not surprising that Britain, with her
great sea power and resources, should have
been able to shoulder 51 per cent, of the job
of convoying freighters across the Atlantic.
But it is one of the maryels of this war that
Canada, an agricultural nation of less than
12,000,000 people, could have contributed 47
per cent, of the vast fleet of fighting ships
necessary to get the freighters across. — “Satur-
day Evening Post.”
* * * *
There is worry over Russia, over evidence
that Stalin is to go his own way, over Russia’s
ideas for post-war arrangements in Europe and
in Asia. Mr. Roosevelt’s effort to heal the
breach between Russia’s Government and the
Catholic Church appears not to be succeeding.
There had been hope. Stalin continues to go
his own way on military policy, to deny access
for U.S. and Britain either to war plans or to
front-line combat areas. There is no relaxing
of strictest Russian neutrality in the war with
Japan. Russia is going ahead on her own with
creation of a provisional post-war Government
for Germany. She is projecting her own plans
along lines that do not fit in with British-
American plans, if any. Stalin doesn’t look
kindly on U.S.-British strategy that involves
stepping into Russia’s Balkan side door. Re-
lations between these allies are not what they
might be. — ‘‘‘United States News.”
* * * . *
The [U.S.] Government’s policies abroad are
undermining the morale of our troops. This is
not the time to pay an American workman
$lOOO a month to fix electric wires on the air-
field at Accra while privates in the United
States Army, working on the same field, are
p?id $5O a month. This is not the time to
build immense bases such as we are building in
Eritrea with an understanding that only union
labor be sent abroad. This is not the time
to play into the hands of labor racketeers who
require that any skilled American civilian elec-
trician working overtime in Algeria be paid
more per month than' General Eisenhower is
paid. This is not the time for anything but vic-
tory. What would you think if you were an
American soldier in North Africa or Eritrea?
Well, that’s the way our soldiers feel about it
everywhere. They believe that a great injustice
is being done by our Government in permitting
labor extortion in this war. They have no
patience with the political ambitions of the men
who make this possible. These soldiers will re-
turn bitter and mad, and they will demand a
reckoning.— Henry J. Taylor; “Reader’s Digest.’'’


NOW AVAILABLE
INTERNATIONAL
TRUCKS
FOR IMMEDIATE DELIVERY
TO ESSENTIAL COMMERCIAL USERS
Supplies of new "INTERNATIONAL 77 trucks have
been specially imported by the Government as a
Defence measure to ensure efficient road transport
within Australia. These vehicles are equipped with
sturdy, full floating, 2-speed rear axles; imported
all-steel cabs; imported platform bodies with skid
strips, coaming, front loading board and rope rails;
detachable dropsides and tailboard or triple-purpose
stakesides, and other approved essential body types.
' Capacities up to 4i tons.
Deliveries of these vehicles can now be arranged for
essential users who obtain the necessary "Permit to
Acquire 77 from the Emergency Road Transport Board.
Application forms for official permits, full details of
prices, specifications and all arrangements for
purchase may be obtained from our branch in the
Capital City of your State, or from any Authorised
Metropolitan Distributor for International Trucks.
Ask us to help you with your application.
INTERNATIONAL HARVESTER COW PANT OF AUSTRALIA PTY. LTD.
tINCORPOHfITCtI IN VICTORIA)
BRANCHES IN ALL CAPITAL CITIES
'T’HE HUGE OUTPUT from the
Akubra Mills for the use of the
Services has necessarily restricted Civilian
supplies.
Please remember that fact, should
you be disappointed in obtaining your |
favourite hat.
But, always ask for Akubra when
you must have a new hat. . . . Your
hatter may have what you want.
LOOK YOUR B ESI I,H Afr AKUBRA
Prepare
❖
\
*
*4
«b
m ‘
¥<■. O
build
to
s>.
£a&tf
W r '%
m
*ss*
—jts.s
rv
get SavUiqs aiiefs.
FOR YOUR POST-WAR HOME
Of course you can’t build it now . . . nor can •
you do any extensive remodelling . . . even if
you could get all the Cane-ite you’d need for
the work you’re planning to do. And there’s
no reason why you shouldn’t plan, and pre-
pare, and save, for the home you’re going to
have when peace has followed victory. Then,
there’ll be plenty of Cane-ite, the ideal insulat-
ing board for lining walls and ceilings.
-fSTE
INSULATING (BOARD
THE COLONIAL SUGAR REFINING CO. LTD. (Building Materials Division)
MARKETING.
CANE-ITE MASONITE :: C.S.R. SLAG-WOOL PLASTER PRODUCTS
MEDICAL AND DENTAL PLASTERS
‘ ★
INVEST YOUR SAVINGS IN WAR BONDS
CA26-43
caS'
If any illustration in “THE BULLETIN” takes your fancy, write
to the MANAGER, who will quote you price for the original.
SERVICE DEPARTMENT.
Wants.
To buy coronation number of the “Home’
(May 1, 1937).—3394.
To buy Tupholme’s Modern Engineering .—
3395.
To buy Pastoral Pioneers of Port Phillip, by ,
Bilks and Kenyon.—3393.
Soldier wants to buy Bulletins for 1941.
3396.
Information Sought.
(1) Is a nurse’s career affected if she does her
training in a local district hospital ? (2) Do
thp nursing certificates issued by the Royal
Prince Alfred or the Royal Prince Henry Hospi-
tal carry privileges that other hospitals do not
. .
(1) No. After completing her training and
passing an exam., a trainee of a local and
district hospital is entitled to registration and
the title of “registered general nurse.” (2) No.
* * * *
(1) How long after spawning can the first
crop of mushrooms be expected ? (2) Average
yield in pounds per sq. ft. ? (3) Can the com-
post be used indefinitely ?
(1) About six to eight weeks. (2) If properly
cared for, about Ulb. per sq. ft. (cropping con-
tinues for three to six months). (3) The com-
post is spent for mushroom production after
cropping is ended, but is still a good soil amend-
ment.
♦ * * *
Particulars of following German ’planes:
(1) Focke-Wulf Kondor FW2W, (2) Focke-
Wulf Kurier FW2OOK2, (3) Junkers JIMA6 ?
(1) Span 108 ft. 6in., length 78ft. 3in., max.
speed 233 m.p.h. at 1300 ft., range 775 miles
at 217 m.p.h., duration 3.75 hours; crew of
four and accommodation for 30 soldiers; weight,
empty 21,5601 b., loaded 32,1201 b. (2) A patrol
bomber developed from the Kondor and of
similar dimensions. To carry a heavy bomb
load more powerful motors have been fitted.
A bomb bay slung under the fuselage accommo-
dates 60001 b. of bombs. Bomb bulge contains
bomb-aimer’s window and rear-gunner’s posi-
tion. More bombs can be slung in racks under
the outboard motor nacelles and under the
wings outboard of them. Maximum speed 275
m.p.h. at 18,100 ft., range 2300 miles at 220
m.p.h.; crew of six; armament, one movable
cannon, four movable machine-guns and one
two-gun turret on top of fuselage, forward
of wings; weight, empty 28,7001 b., loaded
48,5001 b. (3) General-purpose bomber. Proto-
type was used to set up several records, one of
which was 621 miles at 321 m.p.h. with 44101 b.
of bombs in March, 1939. Although first pro-
duced as a precision bomber it was converted
to dive-bomber by addition of external bomb
racks and dive brakes. Equipped as a night
fighter, it carries eight fixed guns in a blacked-
out nose. Armament as bomber is four mov-
able machine-guns. Crew of four; span 65ft.
6in., length 47ft. 2in., maximum speed 276
m.p.h. at 1600 ft., range 960 miles at 220 m.p.h.;
weight, empty 16,8701 b., loaded 24,3501 b.
Earlier versions carried four 5501 b. bombs on
external racks or 16 of 1101 b. each, alternative
to extra fuel tank in centre section.
* * * *
Method of tanning rabbit- and foxskins ?
Rabbitskins can be tanned by rubbing baking-
powder thickly on to the fresh, wet skin daily
till dry. All rough parts are then rubbed
off with a piece of brick and any membrane
removed. To tan foxskins, stretch the skin
tightly on a board, hair downwards, and tack
it in place by the edges. Scrape off the flesh
and fat with a blunt knife and work in some
ordinary chalk freely with plenty of hard rub-
bing. When the chalk begins to powder and
fall off, remove the skin from the board and
rub in plenty of powdered alum. Then wrap
up closely and keep in a dry place for a tew
days. *
* 1! * *
Who are the feather, light and welterweight
champions of the world ? .
Willie Pep is featherweight champion, ine
New York Boxing Commission says Bob Mont-
gomery won the lightweight championship from
Beau Jack on May 21, but most American
critics consider Sammy Angott holder ot this
title, Freddie Cochrane is the welterweight
champion. This title is frozen for the duration,
Cochrane being in the U.S. Navy.
* * * *
(1) After Jack Johnson won the world’s heavy-
weight championship from Tommy Burns in
1908 did he defend that title against Sam Lang-
ford? (2) Did Langford and Johnson ever
fight each other ?
(1) No. (2) When 60 pounds heavier than
Langford, Johnson outpointed the Boston negro
at Chelsea, Mass., in 1906.
Answers to Correspondents
The Muse aroused: —
p .
Toll the road to victory’s paving
And many rights we’re gladly waiving
Though twisted bureaucratic craving
Clamps down restrictions quite enslaving.
Enthusiasts laud daylight saving, >(
Most stigmatise it “daylight raving.
P JJ .
To the south of the Line is a land which we love,
It’s Australia by name and our home,
Where the stars of the Southern Cross shine from
above
And in peace through the bush you may roam.
She offers adventure, giving freedom to all,
And greets you to try out your luck.
Under foot there are nuggets of gold large and small,
Whilst her lakes offer sport in wild duck.
L.H.D.: Its “softly moist’ning palpal
touch” left us damped C.T.W.: Just a
jingle. ...E.J.S.: Tell her to yield not to the
sweet delights of didacticism... .A.G.8.: Un-
refined... .M.W.: Local doggerel might suit
local daily, if any....8.H.: Like the beef it
deals with, it hardly exists E.F.: Correct
that “alone-home” rhyme and try a daily at
the appropriate time... .R.K.L.: Good couplet
about the holly; otherwise too many vague
words... .H.D.: Try a woman’s paper... .F.J..
“Man doth aspire.” Yea, that he doth....
E.L.K.: If it were all as good as the last
stanza!... .G. 8.: She loses... .J.L.: Like the
paratroops, it descends and descends and de-
scends... .0.W.: Form’s too easy 5) and you
can’t rhyme “more” with “straw”... .8.E.:
Real feeling in the description, but it s not
poetry. Ever tried short stories? G.A.8.;
Not enough atmosphere R.J.K.: Flat as the
bike’s tyre A.W.: It isn’t done C.V.i.:
Why turn his straightforward, contemporary
prose into mannered and archaic verse?
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC)
CORRESPONDENTS.
A.S.D.: Put a half-nelson on your shadows
and boldness into your outlines H.D.M.:
Wouldn’t say you were behind the door
when Nature was bestowing artistic talents —
you weren’t even in the house... .Bert C.:
A horizontal log. with a hat on seems to be saying
something dreary to an unidentifiable bird
standing with its claws right around a 20in.-
circumierence tree-branch. v


©
WHEN YOUR EXECUTOR OIES
-Will YOUR ESTATE SUFFER
If you appoint an individual as Executor his
death, absence or carelessness may mean loss
and inconvenience to those whom your Will
is designed to benefit.
To ensure that the administration of your
• Estate shall be safe and permanent, appoint
The Trustees Executors and Agency Com-
pany Limited. For more than 65 years this
company has devoted itself solely to the
administration of thousands of estates. By a
short codicil to your Will you may, if you so
desire, name the company as Executor or
join it with others as Co-Executor. Charges
are fixed and moderate.
Consult your Solicitor or write for Free Booklet.
s
THE TRUSTEES EXECUTORS
AND AGENCY COMPANY LTD.
Incorporated in Victoria in 1878.
1 BLIGH ST., SYDNEY, and at 401 COLLINS ST.,
MELBOURNE.
Capital {paid and uncalled ) and Reserves, £960,645.
BOARD OF DIRECTORS:
Sit Alexander Stewart (Chairman); D. Stuart Murray; Sir Claude
Reading, K.C.M.G.; Sir Lennon Raws, C.8.E.; G. S. Coltnan, C.8.E.;
Sir Alan Newton.
NEW SOUTH WALES DIRECTORS:
Sir Claude Reading, K.C.M.G. (Chairman); W. D. Stewart; R. T. Hildet.
N.S.W. Manager: J. W. Russell French.
General Manager: W. Sydney Jones. Manager: K. M. Hughea.
%
...
*
If
'I
V*'.
■•r •*;■<•*•*,«.:,;
IK
MARS Machine Tool
Manufacturing Co. Pty. Ltd.
Manufacturers of Lathes, Millers, Shapers, Boring Mills, Planers and
Machine Cut Gears
BRIDGE STREET. VALLEY. BRISBANE
The WILD
CAT
COLUMN
New Zealand Insurance Co.
Net To Re-
May, Profit. Dividends. serves. Reserves.
£ £ £ £ *
1933.. 174,975 10 p.c. = 150,000 24,975 1,161,931
From inner reserves, £147,585 .. 1,309,516
1934.. 228,295 12.5 p.c. =187,500 ]
To staff pension fund, £20,000 1 10,795 1,320,311
To tax reserve, £lO,OOO
1935.. 232,809 10 p.c. == 150,000 ) 72 g()9 1 393 120
To tax reserve, £lO,OOO j ’
1936.. 249,165 10 p.c. = 150,000 99,165 1,492,285
1937.. 288,456 10 „ „ 150,000 138,456 1,630,741
1938.. 321,884 10 „ ~ 150,000 171,884 1,802,625
To tax reserve, £lO,OOO .. .. 1,792,625
1939.. 260,837 10 p.c. = 150,000 110,837 1,903,462
Assets adjustment, £296,808.. .. 2,200,270
To tax reserve, £40,000 . . . . 2,160,270
War exes, donation, £20,000.. .. 2,140,270
1946.. 346,718 10 p.c. = 150,000 196,718 2,336,983
1941.. 392,346 12* „ ~187,500 204,846 2,541,834
1942.. 415,877 12*,, „ 187,500 228,377 2,770,211
1943.. 624,124 12*,, „ 187,500 436,624 3,206,835
This energetic and prosperous 64-year-
old Auckland-controlled fire and marine
office with world-wide connections is a
handsome contributor to the Dominion’s
invisible exports. Only about one-fifth
of the co.’s contracts are written in
Maoriland. Some idea of the geographi-
cal spread of the remaining four-fifths
can be had from the following dissection
of Government and municipal security
holdings, which comprise 63.2 p.C. of
total assets:
United Kingdom . . . . . . . . £1,063,712
Maoriland and Australia . . . . . . 1,693,431
Union of South Africa .. .. . . 85,640
India 46,634
United States of America .. . . 523,102
Argentina .. .. .. .. . . 354,258
Additions to these holdings last term were
Maoriland and Australia £268,957,
U.S.A. £154,201, U.K. £105,756, Argen-
tina £53,568, S. Africa £12,501 and India
£l2.
The enterprising management has lost
no time in taking advantage of improve-
ment in outlook. Last term business was
extended to Canada, a new branch was
opened at Mombasa (E. Africa) and more
ginger was put into the hunt in the Middle
East. All this, together with a larger
volume of marine business at rates in-
flated by war conditions, and more fire
premiums, owing to higher stock values,
put a spring of £332,342 (= 16 p.c.) in
net premium income, lifting it to
£2,412,183, the highest in the co.’s his-
tory : /
Loss Expenss
Net Rate. Rate.
Premiums. Losses. Expenses, p.c. p.c.
1910. . £605,509 £391,321 £172,593 64.5 28.5
1925. . 1,0*2,761 603,650 342,334 56.2 31.9
1931.. 1,145,257 740,245 353,439 64.6 30.8
1935.-1,050,792 596,778 348,938 56.7 33.2
1938. 823,852 363,337 60.5 26.7
1939. . 1,405,787 910,489 377;632 64.8 26.8
1940. . 1,763,659 1,105.966 462,809 62.7 26.2 ,
1941. . 1,948,595 1,099,744 570.448 56.5 29.2
1942. 1,140,948 647,966 54.8 32.1
1943. 1,338,808 622,039 55.5 25.8
Over the last four years the figures are
in N.Z. currency, and therefore inflated
in comparison with earlier ones, which
take no account of exchange. The im-
provement in last year’s takings is re-
markable because of the loss of the co.’s
East Asian business, the Commonwealth
Government’s monopoly of marine war
risks on the Australian coast, the con-
tinued fall in car insurance, and depletion
of trained male staff, including agents and
inspectors, and substitution of untrained
female labor. The contraction of £6 6s.
p.c. in the expense rate was due mainly
to loss of East Asian branches ; it also
suggests that the female labor is far from
inefficient. The loss rate, over which
the management has no control, was only
14s. p.c. heavier; but marine risks are a
long-winded business, and there has lately
been a reduction in premium rates.
The underwriting surplus (£451,336, up
£160,409) shot up to a shade over 30 p.c.
on capital, and interest and rents
(£152,121, up £15,548) brought in 10.1
p.c. on capital, while £20,667 dropped
from somewhere into the investment fluc-
tuation, etc., reserve. Including this un-
explained addition, and subject to
unexpired risks, the year’s net result
from all sources was £208,247 better at
a juicy 40.1 p.c. on capital as against
27.6, 26.1 and 23.1 p.c. for c the three
preceding terms. The div. was kept at
\l\ p.c,, and two-and-one-third times as
much was put on the shelf as was dis-
tributed, lifting the visible lay-by
£1,706,835 higher than the million and
a half of paid capital, of which £1,200,000
came from genuine reserves since 1912.
Balance-sheet movements indicate con-
centration on public securities (up
£595,003). Shareholdings were reduced
by £101,551, and cash and agency bal-
ances strengthened by £79,393: —
1935. 1941. 1942. 1943.
Paid capital 1,500,000 1,500,000 1,500,000 1,500,000
Liabilities.. 225,940 772,193 998,003 1,134,163
Pubiic securi-
ties .. 2,035,631 2,793,221 3,182,043 3,777,046
2 3 4 9 6 ,88 5 9°
Freeholds.. 446,793 572,898 596,152 596,152
Agency bai-
cash 8 a ? d 465,497 815,427 839,279 918,672
Liabilities consist of provision for un-
adjusted losses (£669,617, up £55,561)
and sundry creditors and provision for
taxation (£464,546, up £80,599), Another
feature is the co.’s strength from both
policy-holders’ and shareholders’ point of
view. When the books closed, net tan-
gibles had a book value equal to 195
p.c. on the year’s increased net premium
income, whereas 150 p.c. is usually con-
sidered adequate. And assets are worth
more than their book value, too.
Berlei, Ltd.
xr i. CTT — Dividends „
Net Pref. To Re- Re-
June, Profit. 8 p.c. Ord. serves, serves,
£ £ £ £ £
1933.. 14,675 4000 8 p.c. =10,852 323 87,789
Unexplained additions to .reserves, £l5OO 39,289
1934.. 19,645 4000 8 p.c. =11,005 4640 43,929
1935.. 19,245 4000 8 ~ ~ 11,005 4240 48,169
Bonus scrip M.L. subsidiary, £2560 .. 50,729
1936.. 25,182 4000 10 p.c. =13,756 7426 58,155
1937.. 25,463 4000 10 „ ~ 13,756 7707 65,862
1938.. 26,282 4000 10 „ ~13,756 8526 74,388
1939.. 21,278 4000 10 „ ~13,756 3522 77,910
1940.. 23.206 4000 10 ~ ~13,756 5450 83,360
1941.. 28,052 4000 10 „ ~13,75610,296 93,656
To staff fund, £lO,OOO 83,656
Unexplained additions, £2500 .. . . 86,156
1942.. 27,370 4000 10 p.c. =13,756 9,614 95,770
To staff fund, £2224 93,546
1943.. 25,060 4000 10 p.c. =13,756 7,304 100,850
This co. and its two Australasian asso-
ciates—one in Maoriland and the other
in Victoria, both good profit-earners—
supply women of the Commonwealth and
Dominion with most of their foundation
garments, and have done so for many
years, thanks to efficiency and enterprise
of the management and to a little assist-
ance from tariff and exchange in meeting
foreign competition in pre-war days. It
is not clear whether Berlei (U.K.), which
set up at Slough, near London, in 1929,
contributes to the pool, but it is operat-
ing at a profit—the British Government
has taken over the factory floor—and it
has long done good work as buyer of
basic materials for its antipodean asso-
ciates. A new co., WafneTs le Gant Pty.,
Ltd., was added to the list of associates
last term, though the net increase in book
value of shareholdings was only £3B, and
intangibles remained unchanged at £2935.
As well as helping to consolidate the
rn war hnc intrnrlnp-rl manv
co. s sates, war nas mtroaucea many
complications into the business. To fulfil
service contracts wliicVi confirmer! to py-
service contracts, wmcn continued io ex-
pand with enlistment of women in the
forces supplies of the co.’s products to
the retail trade had to be rationed. Also
there was little, if any, profit in many
service Contracts because official prices
were fixed with little consideration for
rising costs and the quality of the co.’s
goods. The serious effects of this kind of
official interference upon the co.’s com-
petitive power, should price-fixing and
rationing continue for some time after
the war, as seems possible, call for im-
mediate consideration on the grounds of
sound public policy in relation to the
preservation of industry. Many of the
raw materials used have to be imported
from Britain and U.S.A.; and the fact
that rubber is included in their manufac-
ture means that they have become in-
creasingly expensive and difficult to ob-
tain. To enable the co. to increase its
supply of garments to the public the
Government has agreed to buy raw
materials needed under lend-lease
arrangements with U.S.A. Exactly how
this aspect of lend-lease obligations to
U.S.A. will affect the pattern of inter-
national economic organisation and poli-
heal policy after the war remains to be
s 9 en - What is plain is the heavy obliga-
tlon * . rests upon the Government not
to gratuitously give overseas competitors
aa advantage over local manufacturers by
causing the latter to lower the quality
standard of their products, and so run
hie risk of being caught with large
Btoc hs inferior-grade materials when
tEe war ends
. , sll P £-310 in Berlei s net earn-
in&B ast ter d 1 1 as due to shortages of
matenals a nd labor and to their increas-
in S cost - Th e £25,060 of profit claimed
to P ay tae
(£4000) and show 15 p.c. on the £140,057
‘jT ° ld - as against 16.7, 17.2, 13.7,
1. ana 15.9 p.c. back to 1938. The
aiv - was P-?-’ and £2240 was
s ® n .l to td e staff provident fund. The
visible allowance for depreciation was
£llll ; much therefore depends upon
what was spent on maintenance and
a
charged to eammgS.
Finances are comfortable enough, as
fU e follnwinp rnmmrimn nf Kol,nce
lOi lowing comparison Ot Dalance-
Sheet figures shoWS.'
1939 1941 1942 1943
Paid capital.. £190,057 £190,057 £l9O 057 £190,057
Overdraft 32 133 43 093 61S1* 17 994
Sundrv “ ’ 3 43,0 3 51,815 17,224
creditors* 19 194 36 R9R 40 936 30 4rr
„ !I ° “ 19,194 36,828 40,235 30,486
Freeholds .. 62,792 62,652 62,587 62,526
•• 10,964 11,539 11,034 9,632
Investments!.. 89,854 9’2,367 90,761 90,799
Stocks .. 10-5,757 133.,112 161,778 135,101
d ® bts •• 54.507 70,517 53,588 36,852
f tc ‘ 4,297 2,254 17,005 22,584
tnciudlmg taxation. fShares in associated cos.
The shortage of raw materials and the
yc ar ® 9 r °P ln turnover are reflected in
shrinkage of £26,677 in stocks and
£16,736 in debtors’ balances. This was
acc °rnp a nied by a contraction of £34,591
m overdraft and of £9749 in the
ar iip ,dnt _ coming to sundry creditors,
which includes an unspecified provision
taxa hon. The year’s improvement in
lb 2 more or less liquid surplus (£237,626)
£6544. Although stocks are nearly
2 f P-f; than the 1939 figure, it is
doubtrul whether the increase more than
covers die advance in cost,
“
Au omobi e Fire and General (Melb.)
Bo t n J ls '^7® lvldends ~~' Nominal
. Sur-Policy- 12" To Re- r l^
Apnl * pl^ s - hold ers. p.c. Ordinaries, serves, serves,
1933..14,073 sies 300' i2p. c .= 2700 7,9x0 55,230
1934 -- s > l44 12 „,, 2700 53,648
i935..i8,984 2423 437°i74„ „ 3933 12,186 65,834
20 p.c.
1 93 6. .20,649 2617 500 20 „„ 4500 13,032 78,866
1937. .18,937 2777 500 20 „„ 4500 11 ieo 90 026
1938 - S M63 2913 500 20 „ „ 4500 24,550 misTe
3043 500 20 „,, 7625 848*115,424
1940.. i5, 331 3389 500 20 ” , 9500 4942 120366
i94i..i7,799 5524 500 20 „ „ 9500 4,275124,641
toSSTmSFZSIF' Jilm
1942.. 4,914 450.0 500. 2(>p.c!= 9500 ne’,2o4
1943 • -i0,478 2861 500 20,, „ 9500 _ 113’,821
Profits claimed by this energetic little
Melbourne insurer, unobtrusively tucked
awa y from the cluster of competitors in
near-by Queen-street, were £17,793 and
£15,878 respectively in 1942 and 1943. The
discrepancy between those figures and the
ones shown in the table reflect the “Wild
Cat’s” treatment of premiums on
a cash basis, whereas the management,
following old custom, defers taking
credit for 40 p.c. of each year’s collec-
tions as provision for risks under policies
st iE current at the closing of the books,
The broad effect of this column’s pro-
cedure is to give profits a more corpu-
lent appearance than officially exhibited
during a period of rising income and a
less-prosperous air in times of falling
revenue, as of late,
Getting along on half the present capi-
tal until a short time back, the co. has


INVENTORS. —Have you an idea worth patenting?
Sriffith, Hassel and Griffith, Patent Attorneys,
ksbestos House, Cr. York and Barrack Streets, Sydney,
abtain Commonwealth and foreign patents. — Advt.
# * * *
DAVIES & COLL1SON, Patent Attorneys, Collins
House, 360 Collins Street, Melbourne, 0.1. Austra-
lian and overseas Patents and Trade Marks. — Advx.
BRANDALERrS
“ ..cSk
m
mm
Every point
guaranteed
do not experiment with imitations.
C. BBANDADBR * CXI- IML. BIRMINGHAM. ENO
ECZEMA
Sensitive people fed eczema
acutely. The continued irritation,
the unsightly eruptions and the
uncertainty where the trouble will
next spread makes them feel almost
ashamed.
Eczema is not due to dirt, but to the fact
that certain skins react badly to various
forms of irritation (internal or external)
and poor general health increases the
liability.
S ’nee there is a great tendency for eczema
to spread and to become chronic, early
local treatment is imperative, and the best
salve for this purpose is DOAN’S Oint-
ment. It penetrates to the true skin where
the inflammation lies, is antiseptic and
healing and quickly allays the irritation.
DOAN’S Ointment is also good for other
itching skin complaints and for the relief
of piles. Buy a tin to-day, but, be sure
you get DOAN’S.
DoansOiniment
<*r-
SEND YOUR
ENQUIRIES FOR—
MINING MACHINERY
STAMP BATTERIES
CONCENTRATORS
MAGNETIC SEPARATORS
AMALGAMATING TABLES
WATER FILTERS
EVERLASTING VALVES
ELECTRICAL EQUIPMENT
MOTORS AND SWITCHGEAR
GARBAGE DESTRUCTORS
“RENDROCK” AtfD OTHER
EXPLOSIVES
ALL CLASSES OF TOOLS
GUTHREDGE Pty. Limited,
10-12 Parramatta Road, Camperdown,
Sydney.
poof
so S
au*|X
WAR-TIME Is testing time for
™ good citizenship.
Citizens who spend as little as
possible, and put all they can
into War Loans, have the satis-
faction of knowing that they
are helping to save their country
and everything that gives value
to life.
BUY
■WAR BONDS
The A.M.P. Society has put £33,000,000 into
War Bonds and is substantially adding to this invest-
ment with every new Loan.
A.M.P. SOCIETY
Security through Co-operation.
Principal Board:
Sir Samuel Hordern, K.8.E., Chairman.
Cecil H. Hoskins, Esq., Deputy Chairman.
Hon Sir Frederick H. Tout, M.L.C., Hubert Fairfax, Esq., W. A. Mackay, Esq.,
Dr. S. A. Smith, Septimus G. Rowe, Esq.
A W. Sneddon, F.1.A., General Manager and Actuary.
C. M. Martin, Secretary.
A. E. Webb. Manager for New South Wales.
Head Office; 87 PITT STREET. SYDNEY.
THE
STOCK EXCHANGES
Break
Tradition . . .
Since their inception, the Stock Exchanges of
Australia have provided a market place for invest-
ments, but never before have they, as institutions,
made a definite recommendation, although, of
course, individual Members regularly do so.
A precedent is now created by the Associated Stock
Exchanges of Australia in their confident recom-
mendation of THE FOURTH LIBERTY LOAN.
Your investment in the Fourth Liberty Loan expresses
your faith*in your country and your pride in assisting
it to win the War.
But, in addition, the Loan offers: —
1. SECURITY—
There is no investment more secure than War Loan.
It has the backing of your country, whose estimated
wealth is £6,000,000,000, which is growing every year,
2. REGULAR INCOME
Interest at the rate of 3 \°/o per annum for 16 years, or
2i% per annum for 5 years, is payable half-yearly.
Where can you do as well in a safe security?
3. NEGOTIABILITY
Any Member of a Stock Exchange will convert your
War Bond into cash at any time during the currency
of the Loan.
4. TAXATION
Under the Uniform Tax plan, a tax rebate of 2/- in
the £ is allowed on income from War Loan interest.
Invest in national security for to-day and personal
security for to-morrow.
Take the advice of the Stock Exchanges
INVEST IN THE
FOURTH LIBERTY LOAN
4L42.24
done remarkably well out of its pre-
dominantly auto, connections, for which
the State office is now a competitor.
Chief factor affecting last term’s income
recession was the 25 p.c. cut fiom
January, 1942, in private-vehicle compre-
hensive and third-party rates, the latter
now compulsory in Victoria ; on other
vehicles the concessions were 12-| p.c. and
15 p.c. respectively. In volume, business,
however, was maintained, the downward
trend of registrations occasioned by the
first impact of petrol rationing reversing
itself during the year:
Net Pre- Loss Expense
April, miwns. Claims. Exes. Pate. Rate.
1928.. £63,7X1 £41,501 £16,065 65.1 p.c. 25.2 p.c.
1930.. 51,344 29,469 18,801 57.3 „ 36.6 „
1932.. 38,989 16,182 16,394 41.5 „ 42.0 „
1934.. 44,173 23,053 20,749 52.1 „ 46.9 „
1937.. 88,049 40,203 32,315 45.7 ~ 36.7 ~
1938.. 134,750 59,618 48,441 44.2 „ 35.9 „
1940.. 135,889 71,359 56,366 52.5 „ 41.5 „
1941.. 133,252 63,436 59,853 47.6 „ 44.9 „
1942.. 110,861 46,017 68,438 41.8 „ 62.2 ~
1943.. 97,359 35,654 61,136 36.6 „ 62.8 „
The favorable claims experience—one of
the best ever—appears to indicate a
better selection of risks, as well as ex-
tension of the fire side of things. Exes.,
which include a tax slug of £16,000, were
also well controlled, considering the
premium cut. Still, the underwriting sur-
plus was only £569 (up £4163), an( i th at
before allowing for a reduced scale of
no-claims bonus (£2861). The all-round
Z 0 p.c. div. was paid mainly from invest-
ment revenue, etc. (£9909), which came
good with £1402 more. Reserves made
up the deficiency with scarcely a tremor.
Policy-holders can see protection of
solid calibre equal to 170 p.c. of the
year’s retained premiums, and they are
usually content with 150 p.c.: —
1937. 1940. 1942. 1943.
Paid capital.. £25,000 £50,000 £50,000 £50,000
Liabilitiesf .. 23,968 33,182 31,278 32,423
Tax reserve .. 1,675 2,700 14,608 14,754
Freehold . . 48,252 48,548 48,648 48,548
Furniture and
equipment.. 3,086 4,464 5,599 5,104
Public securities, „ „.
etc. . . *66,415 135,910 152,470 162,484
Book debts .. 13,119 15,179 8,222 10,678
Cash, etc. .. 15,79*6 27,077 7,728 2,06 b
t Excluding provision for unexpired risks.
Shareholders are so well secured that,
with sundry income as it is, under-
writing has practically only to break even
to cover the div. Wiping of Melbourne s
literal blackout should do the loss ex-
perience no harm, but the probable
effect of the rubber situation on motor
registrations is indistinct. The long view
partly depends on how amenable tariffs
prove to later readjustment.
Bones of Westralian Under-Secretary
for Mines A. H. Telfer’s newsy report
for last year:
Estimated value of mineral output, of which
93.4 per cent, represented gold, £9,487,857,
down £2,910,324 on the preceding 12 months.
Dividends paid, £433,712, down £406,320
(nearly one-half). ‘ Average value per ton of
gold ore treated 22.27 shillings a ton, down
0.3 shillings. Decreased tonnages were re-
ported from all fields except one, the shrinkage
in the case of East Coolgardie (Kalgoorlie),
where three-fourths of Westralian gold ore is
treated, being 459,670 tons. One effect of the
war with Japan has been greater activity in the
search for strategic minerals. Combined Fed-
eral and State financial assistance has resulted
in vigorous development of tantalum, beryl,
mica, antimony, arsenic, asbestos, tin, copper,
scheelite, coal and other deposits. Modern
plants are being installed and in many cases
operations are expected to go on after the war.
Requisitioning and removal by the Common-
wealth Ministry of Munitions of machinery
from mines forced to close down for the duia-
tion of the war and even from operating mines
have caused the industry considerable perturba-
tion. Plants taken have been mainly power
units. Reimbursement for monetary loss in-
curred in such commandeering is receiving
Commonwealth consideration. Maintenance ot
mines closed down through compulsory with-
drawal of man-power comprises the care ot
machinery and underground workings and is
controlled by the Mines Department. By this
means it is hoped to keep the properties in a
condition which will enable operations to be
resumed after the war. Although Westralian
State batteries —the boon of gold and tin pros-
pectors and the blessing of small mineowners—
show a loss over 40 years’ operations of a little
under £BO,OOO, they have done a good job.
In all they have crushed 2,593,357 tons of gold
ore for a yield of bullion valued at £2,862,3 / /
and treated 81,786 tons of tin ore for a pro-
duction worth £94,000. Capital expenditure
amounts to over half a million. Gold tax col-
lections from • Westralia to the ejid of 1942
aggregated £2,413,778. Amount refunded to
prospectors and low-grade producers to that
date totalled £286,000. That the goldmining
industry is an important source of direct
revenue to the Commonwealth is shown by the
fact that its net tax contribution during the
war period so far amounts to £2,127,778.
* * * *
Paringa board reports (1) that the im-
portant rich pipe has been driven on for
a length of 281 ft. at the 520 ft. level, and
has maintained an average -assay value
of 53.96dwt. per ton over an exposed width
of 59in., (2) that the full width is not yet
exposed, (3) proved ore reserves of the
mine are 279,015 tons of 6.79dwt. aver-
age, equal to four years’ supply at present
mill capacity.
K * * *
Pato Consolidated, a Placer Develop-
ment offshoot operating in Colombia, S.
America, reports that during the year to
April 30 the dredges and hydraulic plants
handled 14,220,000 cubic yards for a
recovery of $3,875*386 (U.S.). Profit,
after allowing for Colombian taxes and
expenses outside Colombia, but excluding
depreciation and depletion, amounted to
$1,831,644 (U.S.). Estimated gravel re-
serves are 555,000,000 cubic yards, aver-
aging 14.8 cents per yard, of which over
69 p.c. is fully developed.
* * * *
During the four weeks to Sept. 21 Hill
50 (W.A.) treated 2934 tons for a recovery
of 831 oz. Conditions underground re-
vealed no change. The month’s ore supply
was drawn from the various stopes, and
showed an overall recovery of 5.67dwt.
per ton. Treatment was continuous and
satisfactory. Any stoppages made were
due to renewals of parts in the primary
crushing section. When labor conditions
underground show some improvement it
is proposed to carry on with the develop-
ment and exploratory work previously
planned.
* * * *
From London:
Reference is made by a writer in the “Finan-
cial Times” to the cross and inscription “R.1.P.”
nailed into the floor in the Australian mining
market section of the Stock Exchange. It was
put there by a jobber, now serving with dis-
tinction in the Middle East, at a time when it
looked as though this section of the House
might well be respectfully buried. Certainly
for a long time there has only been an occa-
sional rattle of dry bones, but somehow it is
felt that as, step by step, Australian Stock
Exchange dealings approach normal, assisted
by repeated lifting of “ceilings,” so there will
be a flow of business to this market. Hope is
expressed that the nailer of the cross and in-
scription will be spared to return in time for
the resurrection.


WHAT? What can I do to help win
the war? I’m not fit enough to fight and
I’m not trained for any special job—
V Vi
BUT I have got some money and I could
save some more. It costs a lot of money to
run a war this size. Yes—l’ll put my money
into the Fourth Liberty Loan. I’ll back the
attack with all I’ve got.
mm.
mm
wm
m
mm
YOUR MONEY. TOO, IS
NEEDED—LEND IT NOW.
WEAR THIS BADGE OF
HONOUR. AWARDED TO EVERY
SUBSCRIBER TO THE FOURTH
LIBERTY LOAN.
3HX Ml IS3ANI ,
wvnv 3hj
WELL —I suppose I could leave it to
the other fellow-—but I’d feel pretty low if
I did. I’d never be able to face the boys
dfd
AND that will put me in the fight, too.
It’s little enough to do. What’s a little "going
without” compared to the job the boys in
the Fighting Services
are doing?
f
SPECIAL CONVENIENT FACILITIES AT
YOUR THEATRE . . v
Buy 5/- National Savings Stamps at the booth in
the foyer. Get a Savings Booklet free! Each
page has room for 8 stamps—£2 worth. The
filled page or pages can then be used for:—
(1) Payment in full on a bond.
(2) Payment of a deposit.
(3) Payment of an instalment.
1H
4L.14.J9
Make your Subscription at any Bank, Savings Bank, Money Order Post Office, or Stockbroker.
Good interest la paid half-yearly. If you invest your money for 5 years the rate is 2J% or for 16 years
31%. Interest starts from the day of subscription. Pay cash or buy bonds on convenient instalments.
The Mutual Life and Citizens’
Assurance Company, Limited
Martin Place and Castlereagh Street,
SYDNEY.
Founded 1886.
There is no better way of pi widing
cash for your family, or for yourself
when you retire, than by taking out
a policy with The M.L.C. '/
ASSETS EXCEED £37,000,000
ANNUAL INCOME EXCEEDS
£5,500,000.
M. O. Alder, A.1.A.,
General Manager.
Business,Rollery,Etc.
General Mining and Investment
Back in September, 1937, when share-
markets were active and Pitt and
Collins streets were burdened with
“investors,” there was born in Sydney,
of the “Investors’ Review,” described by
itself then as “Australia’s leading finan-
cial service,” a company called General
Mining and Investment Co., Ltd. The
object of the co. was, in the words of
its parent, “to give the investor of aver-
age means a wider range of security and
a higher rate of dividend from mining
investments.” “Furthermore, it had been
established beyond all reasonable doubt
that during a period of 18 months —over
which a record was kept —readers who
followed the definite recommendations of
the ‘lnvestors’ Review’ earned 60 p.c. on
their investments, taking both losses and
gains into account.”
The “Investors’ Review” conducted an
“Advisory Service.” One investor who
wrote in for counsel during January,
1939, received the personal advice in the
cue reply of no fewer than three of the
big men in the “Investors’ Review” —
David Hampton, Fergus F.' Munro and
the late M. B. Martin-Delbridge. Mr.
Munro suggested to the inquirer that out
of £lBO which he proposed to invest he
put £75 into 200 shares in the General
Mining and Investment Co. at 7s. 6d.
per ss. share. The inquirer was informed
that these shares were being dealt in “in
the vestibule of the Sydney and Adelaide
Stock Exchanges,” presumably at that
figure. Earlier, a concern called Midlands
Pty., Ltd., “brokers,” had been selling the
shares at 7s. each. A contract between
Midlands and the G.M. and I. Co. stipu-
lated that Midlands took unallotted
shares from General Mining and Invest-
ment at ss. a share.
Mr. Munro assured‘the inquirer that
“the capital is well secured and the in-
come is certain,” and, with reference to
the shares, “if you have any difficulty in
getting them you could with this
[“lnvestors’ Review”] office.”
In general, prospective investors in
G.M. and I. were informed that
it may be stated that, by arrangement, all
the' expert information possessed or
acquired by the mining board of the “In-
vestors’ Review” Advisory Service is avail-
able to General Mining and Investment
Co., Ltd, This enables the co., if it sees
fit, to take immediate advantage of, any
outstanding market opportunities which
may be found offering from time to time.
General Mining and Investment Co.
policy was deliberately formed at a time
when mining shares were well below their •
“peak” prices, so that, taking the probable
trend of the market into consideration, the
outlook for capital appreciation of its
investment is assured.
In its search for “security” and a “higher
rate of dividend” the co. was remarkable
in its preference for mines lying to the
north of the Australian continent.
There was obtrusive publicity in the
case of both the “Investors’ Review”
and General Mining and Investment.
Annual-meeting proceedings of the
latter were advertised. Accounts for
G.M. and I. up to September 30,
1938, were issued under date of Decem-
ber 1. A special interim report for the
next half year was issued about seven
weeks after March .31. This, stated
that “of the investments held 46 p.c.
represented tin shares, 41.2 p.c. gold
shares, 6.8 p.c. base metals and
6 p.c. industrial shares.” The board
reported that “dividends received from
gold shares were generally satisfactory
and in line with your directors’ anticipa-
tions. Income from tin dnd base metal
shares was considerably below what may
be expected over a' reasonable future
period.”
Quarterly divs. of p.c., with bonuses,
were now being paid to G.M. and I.
shareholders. Tin and metal hold-
ings were increased. Between September,
1938, and September, 1940, capital rose
from £15,365 to £99,720, and the holding
of investments from £19,896 to £132,081,
the co. using some borrowed money to
enlarge its holdings. It was reported
that over the two-year period earnings
had risen from 16 p.c. on capital
employed to 18 p.c. But suddenly the
National Security Regulations prevented
the raising of more money from share-
holders. As things turned out later, prob-
ably just as well for shareholders.
Shortly afterwards (early in 1941) the
Australian Mining Investment Units
Trust was formed. Trustees for the
certificate-holders was the General Mining
and Investment Co., and manager of the
trust was Security Investments, Ltd., of
the same address. People who bought
unlts of the first portfolio in this trust
became interested in nine goldmines and
13 tin cos. The portfolio cost £2803 and
the divs. thereon were at the rate of
£493 a vear “estimated vield” Heine
Y ear > estimated yield nemg
£l7 11s. per cent. Prospective unit-
holders were told that “Some folk make
insurance their investment. Wise men
, ■ , . ~ • ~ A i
make investment their insurance. Also,
“By starting now on this simple, definite
Plan, and putting in something each year,
you make it easy to get a regular monthly
income for life when you retire... .You
can have all the joys of recreation or
travel when the. time comes at which
every man wants them most. There was
talk ot the units on the basis of ss. 9d.
each and, later, of 6s. 6d A retirement-
r? P f llShed -ln d^ ating
that £lOO invested each year, with the re-
investment of an assumed income of
14 P- c - P; a -/ r ° m the trust ltS , elf i^° ul * d
a /r 6 15 / e n rS ag f egate f 5224 T
p iaA° r actually put up. A single
£lOO put m, with reinvestment of the
income was estimated to return £761 at
the end of 15 years.
1940 accounts of the General
Mining and Investment Co took longer
than usual to present-made up to Sep-
tember 30, they were put to the annual
meeting six months later After paying
12 2 P-C- to ord. shareholders, £4250 was
carried to stock-fluctuation reserve.
France had collapsed during the period,
and _it was impossible to express any
opinion on the future. Local and woi Id
conditions are so unsettled that anything
approachmg forecast would be unwise
Nevertheless, it was about this time that
the Australian Mining Investment Units
Trust was making its estimates of
14 p.c. p.a. income and stressing its
“security” retirement-income plan.
In the report on operations to Sept.
30, 1941, the board of General Min-
ing and Investment Co. told share-
holders that it had underestimated
the previous year’s taxation liability
to the extent of £2276, and this
had “upset the financial programme out-
lined by your directors.” Other pro-
grammes seemed to have been upset;
this particular year’s accounts were pre-
sented to shareholders on August 27,
1942, when they were 11 months old.
This unexplained lateness enabled the
board to tell a sad story of later develop-
ments ; the co. had suffered a miniature
Pearl Harbor:
During the year the holdings in cos.
which carried on operations in Siam were
reduced owing to the possibility of a
Japanese invasion. Unfortunately, the
holdings in cos. carrying on operations in
Burma, the Federated Malay States and
New Guinea were retained.
Your directors did not anticipate the
suddenness and swiftness of the Japanese
advance in and occupation of the above-
mentioned countries. As a result substantial
losses were incurred by xeason of the
decline in market values subsequent to
December, 1941.
Malayan-tin stocks, source of much of
previous div. attractions, became a drag
immediately. The percentage make-up
of the portfolio was not given in the
1941 figures. In its misfortunes the co.
became not only late with its accounts;
it gave less detail in them. By bringing
back the stock-fluctuation account the co.
paid the excess taxation for 1940 and
handed a 10 p.c. div. to shareholders, but
left current tax charges to future opera-
tions. Dividend income began to fall
three months before the Japs struck.
In respect of the 1942 period, the co.
failed to present its accounts until one
day short of a year after balance day.
Made up to Sept. 30, 1942, dated Sept.
15, 1943, they were presented at the
annual meeting on the 29th of that
month. The lateness of presentation had
one point of attraction for the board
(if it had no other): it enabled the direc-
tors, with 50 weeks out of 52 already
behind them, to hazard a forecast as to the
results “for the year in progress.” Hav-
ing incurred heavy losses during the pre-
ceding year, charging operations with'‘a
substantial reserve against investments,”
the board tipped that 1943 would be
“profitable.”
Actual loss incurred during the 1942
term was put at £31,277, principally a
result of “a large part of the co.’s invest-
ments” suffering “a heavy setback” by
reason of the Japanese invasion of Malaya,
Burma and New Guinea. Restrictions
on goldmining hit another section
of the portfolio, and curtailment of
Stock Exchange operations and of
the granting of ( credit by banks and
sharebrokers “involved the co. in addi-
tional heavy losses.” Including reserves
made, and deducting a surplus of £3749
on investment income, total loss for
the year was shown at £40,077 —
in excess of all the profits shown since
the co. began. Allowing for a div. of
£3802 paid on Nov. 1, 1941 (in
excess of profits), and bringing in
£2624 from the preceding year, the
final debit in p. and 1. accodnt was
£41,254. The board waived its fees. In-
vestments, “at or under cost,” now appear
at £60,427. Sundry debtors and advances,
£23,958, are not explained, but a bad-
debts reserve of £2550 has been created.
Paid capital is £108,634, while liabilities
total £14,456.
The auditor in his report remarks:
“Trust moneys have been received and
disbursed by the co. as agents for Aus-
tralian Mining Investment Units Trust, the
records of which have not been exam-
ined by us.” The directors do not men-
tion the Trust, but there has been a big
crash in the div. incomes from the stocks
mentioned in the “first portfolio.” The
13 tin cos. have been off the div. list for
an average of two years, while, among the
gold cos., Emperor, Loloma, Guinea Gold
and Bulolo have missed out for nearly
as long. Unless there was a more success-
ful “switch” than in the case of G.M.


EYE LOTION
For Inflamed Eyes and Eyelids ... Sold Everywhere
H.Rose&Co.,Pty.. Ltd.. King Street. Sydney.
Queensland
Insurance Co
Ltd.
Head Office:
Pitt & Bridge Streets,
Sydney.
The Largest
Australian Company
Transacting
Fire, Marine, Accident, House-
'solders’ Comprehensive, Workers’
Compensation, Boiler Explosion,
Machinery Breakdown, Aviation,
etc.
THEY'RE /
THEY'RE
m
m
w Supplies may be
limited but every
effort is made to dis-
tribute evenly.
2 Popu/ct'c. Ti/pes f i
'SUPREME'’DIPLOMA* J
THIS IS WHERE WE
SQUARE THE CIRCLE
The transition of a round tube to a squared,
tapered and bent Anti-tank trail leg tells
in brief the history of resource, initiative
and determination with which every B.T.M. problem is tackled
by skilled craftsmen and experienced business management.
o
Parallel Tube as originally Cold-Drawn
O
The Tube tapered
©
The Tube sectioned
O
The small end sized square
0
Tube bent to required angle
O
•*O/0
Finished assembly with
hinge bracket
BRITISH TUBE MILLS
(AUST.) PTY. LTD.
ADELAIDE
HELP TO FILL THE FOURTH LIBERTY LOAN
&
IT
fOIO TRANSMISSION
ROBltw
wr
s
LUD OWIc rs
have the answer
Illustrating
the LUDOWICI
PIVOT DRIVE
TJEHIND the fine quality and the assurance of maximum efficiency in
•*“* Ludowici Power Transmission Equipment, stand Ludowici Technicians
—men whose knowledge and experience of every power transmission
quirement enable them to give a ready answer to your particular problem.
Our reputation has been built on our willingness to give an unbiassed
opinion and to recommend and supply the most suitable equipment for
each power transmission application.
You have only to ask for our advice to have it freely given.
J. C. LUDOWICI & SON LTD.
117 YORK STREET, SYDNEY
LEATHER
BELT I N G
•
PUL L E Y »
COUPLINGS
SHAF T I N G
GEARS & HANGERS
tn * A
LUDOWICIS
PtJtMfPP
TRANSMISSION
EQUIPMENT
and 1., some of those who made “invest-
ment their insurance” must now be wish-
ing they had made “insurance their in-
vestment.”
Another year for General Mining and
Investment closed on Sept. 30, and share-
holders are entitled to look for accounts
in a quarter of the time they took in
presentation last year. They are also
entitled to know more about the invest-
ment portfolio. It may be that “the out-
look of the co. has considerably im-
proved,” but more fact and less opinion
would be welcome in view of the value
of past opinion.
According to the Prime Minister, Aus-
tralia’s national income and war expen-
diture over the past five years have been
as follows:
National War Revenue Borrow-
Income Expendi- for ing
Produced, ture. War. Needs.
Year. £mill. £mill. £mill. £mill.
1938- .. 788 14 12 2
1939- .. 887 55 26 29
1940- .. 956 170 68 102
1941- .. 1090 320 109 211
1942- .. 1223 562 160 402
Speaking on the difficulty of transferring
an adequate proportion of the national
income from the pockets of the people
in order to meet the cost of war, Mr,
Curtin insisted that “income tax is higher
than in any Allied country, particularly
on the larger incomes, and there is a
practical limit to taxation. Indirect
taxes, while not so high as in Britain,
yielded £l6O million last year, and no
great increase can be expected. Loans
from all sources totalled £215 million,
leaving a deficiency of £lB5 million to be
made good by the creation of new
money.” This £lB5 million was left in
the control of people who could not
spend it because goods and services were
not available. Temptation to offer higher
prices than those fixed for goods in short
supply was encouraged by this excess
spending power, and the “inevitable
result was the increasingly rapid inflation
of prices.”
* * * *
The manufacture of tanks in Australia
has been abandoned. Munitions Minister
Makin says that certain kinds of tanks
which are today in production in “one
of the United Nations” are so suitable
for this country that it was “felt desir-
able to utilise the man-power engaged
here on some other work of high
priority”’ Features of the Australian-
designed tank that was in production
have been incorporated in overseas tanks,
* * * #
Australian war expenditure during the
three months ended September 30
totalled £l4O million, which compares
with £ll3 million for the same quarter
of the preceding year. In the latest period
outgo has been financed as to £36 mil-
lion from revenue, £66 million from
Treasury bills and £3B million from other
borrowings. Last year in the same period
only £2l million was met out of revenue,
but because of the increased cost of war
in the latest quarter the necessity for
borrowing has increased by £l2 million.
According to Budget figures, the
Treasurer hopes to keep Treasury-bill
borrowing down to £lO3 million for the
current year. In the first three months
of the period, however, bank-credit
finance had already exceeded half the
Budget figure. Much will depend on the
success of the present and future loans.
* * He *
The Prime Minister last week said that
the Government had no intention of
nationalising the coalmines, one of the
principal reasons being that “compensa-
tion to be paid would represent an in-
tolerable burden on the community.”
Even if this compensation were paid, he
added, another Government might later
on hand the mines back at half the price
paid. Ample power was already pos-
sessed under the National Security Regu-
lations to enable the Government to
direct what should be done with all coal
produced.
# * * *
In his Budget speech Mr. Chifley said
that by imposing a price ceiling on April
12 the Government took responsibility
for putting a limit on prices. “The limit
will not remain indefinitely at the present
figure, but some limit there must be under
the disturbed conditions of war and of
the immediate post-war period. The im-
portance of such control for preventing
the inflation of prices always likely to
follow the conclusion of war will be easily
appreciated.” Many people are wonder-
ing what the Treasurer means by “indefi-
There is reluctance on the part
of trade and industry generally to ask
for subsidies under the ceiling, scheme
—which would mean having “investi-
gators” in—because of the bureaucratic
and sometimes socialistic attitude of Gov-
ernment departments. Activities of the
D.I.P. have been lesson enough.
* * * *
Because, primarily, of failure to con-
trol Government finances and wage rates,
it is quite conceivable that price-control
in Australia will end in chaos. Not only
is the spiral of inflation evident in pro-
duction costs in private industry; Gov-
ernment budgeting shows further evi-
dence of it in subsidising the price
system out of additional inflationary
finance. This is intended to “correct”
inflation! As a result of utterly unreason-
able behavior on the part of the Govern-
ment in its concessions to trade-unionists
and others who are making money out
of the war, not only is the financial set-
up of Australia being severely strained ;
the moral standard of the people is suffer-
ing as well. Apart from selfishness on
the part of some people, there is a lack
of confidence in the hearts of others, and
a feeling that, irrespective of how they
cash-in now, in the long-run they are not
going to receive a fair go. Hence a
policy of “hop in for your cut while the
going is good.” This policy has been in-
duced by the weakness and sectionalism
displayed by the Federal Ministry, from
the Prime Minister down. The truth is
often handled carelessly, and misrepre-
sentation has been used so often that con-
fidence has suffered additional shocks.
Nearly all prices have now had to be
“declared,” in spite of the previous ex-
pression of official fears that such action
might cause price control to “break down
under its own weight.” The Prices
Branch is now one of the biggest Gov-
ernment offices, and petty dictators are
rising up every week. Their line of action
seems to be to tear out of industry
enough to make up for the economic
devastation caused by Government policy.
Their task is hopeless, but if it is pursued
to its logical conclusion it will make that
of industry futile as well.
* ■ * $ 4c
The utterly political nature of the re-
duction in the price of potatoes prior to
the election is seen in the fact that spuds
are now almost unobtainable in Sydney,
and where they are to be got as much as
3d. a pound is being asked for them. The
pre-election reduction in price was to
51b. for 6d. —a cut of about 50 p.c. on
average prices then ruling.
* * * *
It is officially revealed that the banks,
insurance and finance cos. have yielded
26.000 men, representing over 40 p.c. of
their pre-war man-power, to the war
effort. The retail trade has contributed
47.000 men, or 37 p.c. of its pre-war
, , ,
male strength. Some of«he banks have
a record of more than 50 p.c. enlistment
in the forces,
The value of lend-lease goods supplied
to Australia has been tentatively esti-
mat£d by Washington at £172.5 million
Australian up to June 30 last. Reciprocal
expenditure by Australia during the same
pe £ od was £6 y s mi||ion xhis ye s ar Senator
Keane expects Australian' aid to be close
on £lOO million.


THE SERVICE MAN
Anzacs in the Pacific.
“Ek Dum”: The Old Brotherhood of
Gallipoli has had a reunion on the door-
step of two homelands.
The A.I.F. is fighting at the northern
end of General MacArthur’s offensive
arc. The Maorilanders did the last land
fighting in the New Georgia group during
the taking of Vella Lavella. The con-
junction of the two proud fighting forces
at opposite ends of the same attack arc
is unpleasant news for the Japs, and it
adds to General MacArthur’s force
another division which can be sept any-
where.
The enemy’s evacuation of Vella
Lavella, in the face of the arrival of
Major-General Barrowclough’s Maori-
landers, left the south and south-west
Solomons clear except for small parties.
Many of those who escaped from Kolom-
bangara made their way to Choiseul,
which is threatened with outflanking.
Heavy raids on the Buin-Faisi and
other Bougainville region areas are pav-
ing the way for the final clearing out of
the enemy from the Solomons. Bougain-
ville is the largest island of the group.
It is part of Australia’s New Guinea man-
date, but that had better not be mentioned
to Mr. Ward. Its area is about 3500
square miles and its backbone range—
the Emperor Mountains in the north
and the Crown Prince Range in the
south —is about as high as any in
the world in an island so small.
The mountain region is presided over
by a 10,000 ft. extinct volcano, Mt.
Balbi, and in the southern zone Mt.
Bagana, 6560 ft., has still an active crater.
The south-west coast has low alluvial
plains, but some of the best harbors and
strategic landing places are on the east
coast. After all his building of aero-
dromes and installations in the Buin-
Faisi area it will be an admission of com-
plete defeat in the Solomons if the Jap
does not fight there.
In the Huon Peninsula
The complete control felt to have been
achieved after the affair at Finschhafen
seems to have limitations. After the
occupation of Lae it was estimated that
600 Japs had escaped to the “hills,” where
they were being, mopped up. The “hills”
of the Huon Peninsula include the mighty
Finisterre, which rises 13,500 ft. and
which seems to lean over passengers look-
ing up from ships’ decks along the
Maclay coast.
On October 11 a Sydney “Herald”
correspondent wrote that “enemy bands
are carrying on a stiff guerrilla fight in
the mountainous region inland from
Finschhafen and are trying to make a
nuisance of themselves in the coastal
region north of Finschhafen.”
Official correspondent Slessor also
made it clear that some of the enemy
had escaped from Finschhafen;
Enemy resistance was overestimated at
Lae. Finschhafen was the reverse. We
expected to find little more than 1500 front-
line troops. Instead, we seemed to be out-
numbered by crack Japanese marines. For
a while it looked as if we’ would need a
much larger force.
But the approach of the militia battalion
from Hopoi, which advertised to the
enemy how fast reinforcements could be
brought in by that route, produced “one
reason why the Japs got out.”
“The Devil’s Own,” a New South
Wales battalion from Tobruk, were the
heroes of Finschhafen. They hacked
steps up and across cliff faces, hauled
guns up precipices, ate broken biscuits
trodden into the mud, sometimes lay in
the mire for a couple of days before they
could be lowered down cliffs on ropes
and carried tediously. Sometimes the
journey took three days over the five-
mile route to Scarlet Beach, where every
night and morning the dressing-station
was bombed by the enemy.
The extent of the bands of the enemy
still in the high region north-west of
Finschhafen was shown when it was
announced on October 13 that 400 of
them had been wiped out in mopping-
up operations.
The enemy during the week ineffec-
tively raided Finschhafen, Buna and other
Allied centres with small forces.
The advance of the Australians down
the Faria River towards Bogadjim, with
increasing reinforcements and parachuted
artillery, continued slowly.
After the columns passed Dumpu the
resistance of enemy patrols stiffened every
day along the Finisterre foothills and the
craggy banks of the Uria and Faria
rivers, where the Australians moved for-
ward steadily on a five-mile front athwart
enemy communication lines, driving the
Japanese along in a sort of bag, one side
of which was formed by the Finisterre
and the other by the A.I.F,
The enemy at this stage fought bitter
delaying actions, one of which in the
mountain country north of Kumbarum
lasted 11 hours, during which an Aus-
tralian spearhead was corralled on three
sides and was for a time seriously short
of ammunition. In the end the enemy
was flung with cold steel off the ridge
which he was trying to hold, in one
precipitous part of which the A.I.F. had to
climb along 900 ft. cliff edges to reach him.
After the battle, when the enemy had
retired, 92 of his corpses were counted.
The H.Q. communique of October 16
described the three fights, including that
at Kaipit on the road to Bogadjim, as
“outguard actions” in which 407 enemy
dead were counted, Australian casualties
are reported to be light—in the last ridge
battle only a tithe of the enemy’s.
Strong air support in the shape of
steady bombing of Madang approaches
and Maclay coast stations has been given
the land troops throughout the week.
With only a few miles to go to reach
the Madang-Maclay coastal road, the
advancing Australians from the Mark-
ham seemed at the week-end to be on the
point of running into some main enemy
defences strongly held.
Rabaul's Big Raid.
“Ek Dum”; It was the Allies’ 122nd,
and in it a weight of bombs equal to a
third of the quota for the first six-months
of 1943 was dropped.
The Allied Command used every air-
craft available which could fly the dis-
tance, and the raiding forces left three
sets of bases from the New Guinea
mainland; from the tadpole-shaped
island of Kiriwina, heart of the
Trobriands, 300 miles from Rabaul,
and Woodlark Island, further south-east,
about 330 miles from Rabaul. The
armadas included the greatest Lightning
umbrella seen in the Pacific.
R.A.A.F. Beaus played a gallant and
successful foie as decoys for enemy
fighters—many of which followed them to
sea —so as to leave the fast and low-
flying Mitchells an unmolested field in
their attacks on the three main ’dromes.
The Mitchells disorganised the aero-
dromes, destroying machines on the
ground and making it impossible for
others to b"e taken into the air. More
Beaus followed them and indulged in
deadly ground strafing—in all 250,000
rounds of ammunition were fired, which
would include considerable cannon fire.
The Lightnings escorting the heavies were
soon also in battle.
Meanwhile, the stately Liberators
toured on high with their loads of thou-
sand-pounders.
G.H.Q. reported:
With complete secrecy the mass of our
air force was concentrated and launched
The surprise at Rabaul was as complete as
at Wewak. Mustering every available ’plane
we struck at midday. The enemy was
caught completely unaware, with his ’planes,
both bombers and fighters, on the ground.
While our medium bombers raked the
aerodromes, our heavy echelon swept ship-
ping in the harbor. Both were covered by
our fighters. A total of 350 tons of bombs
was dropped and 250,000 rounds of
ammunition fired.
Our low-flying medium bombers, strik-
ing at Vanakanau, Rapopo and Tobera
aerodromes, destroyed 100 enemy aircraft
caught on the ground and severely damaged
51 others. So complete was the surprise
that the enemy could put up but 40 fighters
in the air to defend —26 were shot down in
combat. In all, 177 aeroplanes, or approxi-
mately 60 per cent, of the enemy’s accumu-
lated air strength at this, base, were lost to
him in this attack.
In effect, the enemy would have had
about 300 aircraft on the several ’dromes
which ring Blanche Bay.
Less Shipping to Bum
There was obviously less shipping at
Rabaul by a long chalk than there was
last April, when a photograph showed
about 60 seagoing vessels, many of large
size and most-moderate-sized freighters,
in Simpson Harbor. On Oct. 24, 25 and
26 last year. General MacArthur re-
ported, 80,000 tons of shipping had been
destroyed or seriously damaged at
Rabaul.
The damage to shipping on Oct. 12 was
specifically described in the communique,
with the method of its destruction:
In the assault on the enemy’s shipping
our heavy bombers, with 10001b. bombs,
sank or destroyed two merchant ships of
5800 tons each and one of 7000 tons,
43 seagoing cargo vessels, ranging from
100 tons to 500 tons, and 70 harbor craft.
In addition they hit and damaged a sub-
marine and its 5000-ton tender, a 6800-ton
destroyer tender and a 7000-ton cargo ship.
Apparently about 20,000 tons of sea-
going ships sunk and 20,000 tons
damaged.
The fact that General MacArthur
reported that the enemy had sustained a
“disastrous defeat” and that “this opera-
tion, including the first phase at Wewak,
gives us definite mastery of the air over
the Solomons Sea and adjacent waters,
and thereby threatens the enemy’s whole
perimeter of defence,” shows how greatly
the victory was valued. And the manner
in which the enemy was surprised so thor-
oughly in broad daylight emphasises his
weakness and carelessness in a most strik-
ing way in the light of his earlier day-
light adventures at Wewak, and in the
face of the fact that he evidently knew
something was moving on Woodlark
Island and the Trobriands.
The Allied communiques of October
11 and 12 —the day the Rabaul raiding
began and the day before—stated that
Woodlark Island, Kiriwina and Good-
enough Island in the D’Entrecas-
teaux had been ineffectively raided after
dark. There had been raids the previous
week also.
In the whole of what G.H.Q. described
as “this operation, [which], including the
first phase at Wewak [i.e., in the week be-
ginning August 16], gives us definite
mastery of the air over the Solomons
Sea and adjacent waters and thereby
threatens the enemy’s whole perimeter of
defence,” only “five of our ’planes are
missing and others were damaged.”
General MacArthur spoke of the opera-
tion as “breaking the back” of the two
great New Guinea wing bases, “the focus
and hub of. the enemy’s advanced effort.”
The Jap loss at Wewak on August 16-21
and Rabaul on October 12 included at
least 50,000 tons of shipping destroyed or
damaged, 432 ’planes actually destroyed,
many more probables at Wewak and 51
seriously damaged at Rabaul, in addition
to main ammunition dumps, wharves, in-
stallations and warehouses and ack-ack
positions at both places and 1500 men in
a single day at Wewak.
In the co-ordinating attacks on Buin-
Faisi reported in the communiques of
October 14-15 a further 33 enejjiy air-
craft were destroyed, bringing the main
total to 465, apart from probables and
damaged machines. The Allied losses in
the three operations .were officially re-
ported as: Wewak 11, Rabaul five (in-
cluding one R.A.A.F. Beau), and Buin-
Faisi three. Total 19, plus some dam-
aged machines which' were able to fly
home 300 to 400 miles. Still, again, on
October 17, in fights at Wewak, Finsch-
hafen, Madang, Oro Bay and Buin, the
Allies destroyed or seriously damaged 147
enemy machines for two Allied ’planes
lost and several damaged.
One needs only to compare this with
European losses of raiding machines (60
Fortresses and two Thunderbolts over
Schweinfurt, 57 Liberators over Ploesti),
the regular day-to-day attrition over Ger-
many and the Mediterranean, to realise
how low the Japanese air defence poten-
tial appears to be in such areas as Rabaul,
in which the defender has every advantage
against the attacker. The defence, in view
of the nature of the attack, was negligible
by European standards.
Tokyo and the Pincers
Tokyo affected to laugh at Allied
claims. Its official radio communique
said that on October 12 Rabaul defences
beat off an attempt by 200 Allied
machines to raid the base, shooting down
13 raiders and damaging four others at
a cost of one ship and 15 ’planes.
Tokyo prophesied an Allied pincer
movement in strength to outflank Rabaul
and the Solomons. One prong of this
attack, Tokyo Radio’s official spokesman
suggested, would sweep across the
northern New Guinea area. The other
thrust would be made towards the Gil-
berts, and would begin with an attack
on Jaluit —a point which has here been
mentioned as a key base little thought of.
It is the heart of the Marshalls, the old
German capital of those islands, a coral
atoll with a lagoon about 30 miles long,
well sheltered and with three passages
which would provide entry for all but
the largest ships.
An attempt would be made, Tokyo
said, to turn the Gilberts into another
Guadalcanal. The statement continued:
In such an event, a great naval battle,
which will decide the fate of the United
States and Japan, inevitably will occur.
Japan is anxious for such an encounter
If the Americans wish to extend their gains
in the Solomons and New Guinea, they
must further extend their already badly
frayed supply lines in the face of absolute
Japanese control of the sea and air.
The threat is not to be disregarded, A
move against the northernmost part of
New Guinea and the Gilberts woqld bring
the attacking forces within the ambit of
the great strategic line of bases which
*« ™led across the equatorial
regions Singapore, Palau, Yap, Truk,
Ponape, Jaluit.
a nr i fmm
, 52 nd Wltb the P°wer gathering from
b °th sides, the enemy will undoubtedly try
to di . vidc Allied strength and to settle the
? ava lssue m two instalments: to fight
the sea-power of Pearl Harbor in one
battle ; to deal with Lord Louis Mount-
batten’s naval strength in another,
°
Amid all the cock-a-doodle-doomg
admittedly substantial and hearten-
J°p4l victories against Japanese posi-
fi°ns id New Guinea and the Solomons,
d needs to pe driven hard into the heads
Australbans that the battle for the
South Pacific is a long way from over,
The calls of the raid on Rabaul did not
prevent the usual Allied raiding from the
Celebes to the Solomons.
The Jap and Our Casualties.
“Ek Dum”: Thoughtless people are
being encouraged to believe that the Jap
soldier is a miserable fellow, scarcely
worthy of the steel of real men.
At every turn he is surprised or
trapped. One account of events in the
Komiatum region before the attack on
Salamaua pictured 50 Australians as put-
ting 900 of the enemy to flight. In
another estimate 70 Australians were
credited with having proved a match for
1200 of him.
Last week it was given out that on the
Madang trail enemies who had lost their
nerve leapt to death 150 feet over cliffs
rather than face a bayonet charge. The
Japs when attacked were “Absolutely
terrified” . . . “gibbering with fright” . . .
“completely panic-stricken.”
The general picture is silly, and worse.
Moreover, it is unjust to the grand fellows
to whom we owe so much, and who have
had to contend not only with a fanatical
and well-posted enemy but with a ter-
rible terrain and climate, who have often
had to fight on bully beef and biscuits,
and many of whom have been struck
down by disease.
The Story of Casualties
When the casualties of the Japanese
war are examined there is a cold shock
coming for the complacent.
Campaigns in the Middle East —First ’
Libya, Tobruk, Second Libya, Greece,
Crete, Syria, Palestine and Alamein—cost
the A.I.F, between December, 1940, and
November, 1942:
Killed and died of wounds .. .. 3,147
Wounded .. .. .. .. 8,317
Missing .. ~ .. .. 443
Prisoners .. ~ .. .. 6,806
Total .. 18,713
Those losses were incurred in battles
against superior forces of the enemy,
sometimes equipped with heavy armor,
. always far stronger in the air and in
artillery till the last phase at Alamein.
This month the Department of Infor-
mation has issued casualty lists which
show how losses in the army have grown
up to August 31:
Increase
Over M.E.
Total. Figure.
Deaths 9,354 6,207
Wounded in action .. 12,915 4,598
Missing .. '.. .. 10,114 9,671
P.o.w 20,246 13,440
Total 52,629 33,916
For nearly all the increase the Jap has
been responsible—he killed and wounded
nearly 10,000 of a superior Australian-
American force which wiped him out in
Buna-Gona, though he was cut off from
supplies and had lost his air superiority.
Total Australian casualties increased
from 53,959 at the end of August, 1942,
to 67,191 at the end of March, 1943, apart
from the heavy toll of sick. Of the in-
crease, only about 2500 were suffered in
the Middle East.
Losses from disease have not been
given precisely. Referring only to the
first New Guinea campaign, Mr. Fraser,
Mr. Forde’s offsider in the Senate, said
on Friday that the malaria rate was three
and a half times the casualties-in-action
rate, and that, as for the campaign now
in progress, it was “realised that ground
action in close contact with the enemy
would inevitably lead to high malaria
casualties.” Scrub typhus is another New
Guinea scourge, It has been revealed
that scrub typhus caused the death of
Brigadier-General Sewell.
Apart from army losses, R.A.N.
casualties have grown from 133 killed in
action, eight wounded and 24 p.o.w. in
November, 1941, a month before Pearl
Harbor, to 1043 killed in action, 14* died
of wounds, 208 died from other causes,
227 wounded, 742 missing and 134
prisoners of war at August 31, 1943.
Though the men of H.M.A.S. Sydney
come into the last list, the bulk of the
t


Missing Friends.
KRAMER WALTER.—MigueI Kramer Walter (or
Miguel Walter), or anyone knowing of his where-
abouts or of his death, is asked to communicate with
the PUBLIC TRUST OFFICE, Tauranga, New
Zealand.
Public Notice.
I, ALPHONS SILBERMANN, Stateless, formerly of
German nationality, born at Cologne (Germany),
and resident five years in Australia, now residing at
63 O’Sullivan Road, Rose Bay, in the State of New
South Wales, intend to apply for naturalisation
under the Nationality Act 1920-1936.
Divorce Notice*.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW SOUTH
WALES —In Divorce.
TO WILLIAM ROBB DUNCAN late of Kitchener
Road Artarmon Sydney in the State of New South
Wales.—TAKE NOTICE that PHYLLIS EDNA
EDITH DUNCAN has filed a Petition for Divorce No.
1861 of 1943 on the grounds of desertion without
just cause or excuse for three years and upwards
If you wish to defend you may enter an appear-
ance at the Divorce Office Supreme Court King Street
Sydney by the Thirteenth day of January One thou-
sand nine hundred and forty-four and obtain a copy
of! the petition without charge from MESSRS.
BRAYE & MALOOMSON Solicitors 92 Pitt Street
Sydney.— (l.s.) 0. K. BODY, Registrar in Divorce.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW SOUTH
WALES —In Divorce.
TO OWEN CHARLES VERDI WESTLEY late of
Sydney.—TAKE NOTICE that GLADYS MAY WEST-
LEY has filed a Petition for Divbrce No. 2759 of
1943 on the grounds of desertion without just cause
or excuse for three years and upwards If you wish
to defend you may enter an appearance at the Divorce
Office Supreme Court King Street Sydney by the
Ist day of December 1943 and obtain a copy of the
petition without charge from W. C. TAYLOR &
SCOTT Solicitors 117 Pitt Street Sydney.— (l.s.)
C. K. BODY, Registrar in Divorce.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW SOUTH
WALES — In Divorce.
TO IRENE BESSIE BALOOMB late of Cranbury.
—TAKE NOTICE that NOEL SWEETNAM BAL-
OOMB has filed a Petition for Divorce No. 2760 of
1943 on the grounds of desertion without just cause
or excuse for three years and upwards If you wish
to defend you may enter an appearance at the
Divorce Office Supreme Court King Street Sydney by
the Ist day of December 1943 and obtain a copy of
the petition without charge from W. C. TAYLOR &
SCOTT Solicitors 117 Pitt Street Sydney.— (l.s.)
C. K. BODY. Registrar in Divorce.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW SOUTH
WALES— In Divorce.
TO ERIC ALBERT ELLIOTT (sometimes known as
Rodney Denniss Elliott) late of Paddington New
South Wales.—TAKE NOTICE that IVY OLIVE
MABGUERITA ELLIOTT has filed a Petition for
Divorce No. 2522 of 1943 on the ground of desertion
without just cause or excuse for three years and
upwards If you wish to defend you may enter an
appearance at the Divorce Office Supreme Court King
Street Sydney by the Ist December 1943 and obtain
a copy of the petition without charge from MESSRS.
MARTIN & LAMPORT Solicitors 129 Pitt Street
Sydney.— (l.s.) C. K. BODY, Registrar.
CD
am
remainder seem to be attributable to, the
war in the Pacific,
Since November, 1941, Air Force
casualties have increased by 2767 killed,
1540 wounded and injured and 1700-odd
missing and prisoners of war, apart from
deaths from illness. The totals are killed
and presumed dead, 3116; died of ill-
ness, 173 ; wounded, injured, 1560 ; p.o.w.
and missing, 1718. The greater propor-
tion of these certainly must be attribut-
able to the war in the Pacific, in which
the R.A.A.F. has flown 3,000,000 hours
and 325,000,000 miles.
So it is foolish and dangerous to con-
clude that the enemy has somehow be-
come a futile bungler. Far better to
regard him as formidable, as more for-
midable than he may actually prove as
the war proceeds. To err on that side
can bring no desperate disappointments.
The fact must be faced that he is keep-
ing a very powerful Allied air, land and
naval force occupied in a very unhealthy
zone south of the Equator while hoping
to fight in areas of his own choice
which may or may not be thousands of
miles from New Guinea.
The Eighth Army Again.
“Ek Dum”: Though the Fifth (Anglo-
American) Army coming up from the
plains of Naples has figured in most of
the reporting and has fought with great
vigor and pluck, it was reserved for Mont-
gomery’s Eighth Army to “do it again.” ,
Reinforced now by the powerful
pioneer British armored division, the
glorious Seventh, and its Indians, the
Eighth ploughed its way through mud
and tanks from Termoli, on the Adriatic,
into the heart of the peninsula at Vinchia-
turo. Perched on the German left flank
there its weight set the whole southern
structure of the enemy’s southern
defence cracking.
What With mud, sunken roads and
swirling floodwaters along the Capuan
approaches to the Volturno bridgeheads
and bottleneck valleys between craggy
hills to the north of them> Von Kesselring
had every advantage on the Tyrrhenian
side, but Montgomery’s men had made
his position untenable. They had
secured access to a central road up
through the heart of Italy, whose defences
were hard for the enemy to reinforce
from either east or west. A 50-mile
plunge along this road would take them
right into the rear of the whole of the
German armies of the west, with splendid
lateral terrain for a direct approach to
Rome behind the enemy retreating from
the Volturno.
So Kesselring’s troops began to get out,
fighting stubborn delaying actions on both
flanks and given a little time for the
purpose by the fact that the Fifth Army’s
right flank had not moved across the
difficult country north and north-east of
the Galore River so fast as the Eighth
Army in the east.
At the week-end the Germans were
fighting a desperate battle on the Roman
side of the Volturno, along the Capua
road, to hold temporarily the crossroads
which open the way for an Allied diver-
sion to the Formia-Pontine route along
the west coast. Palermo Radio mentioned
another Allied landing north of the Vol-
turno, which would be likely to end this
battle in short order.
After the declaration of war by Italy
during the week the Germans seemed to
be withdrawing from Rome. They will
doubtless fight at many points on their
way up through Italy, but their stand will
have to be made far in the north unless
they have greater strength than they have
shown so far.
Winter is near. It has snowed in the
Balkans already. The passes to Germany
will soon be filled with snow. There is
little or no fuel in northern Italy, either
oil or coal, and it must be brought from
Germany with great usage of rail and
road transport. It seems commonsense
that the enemy will fight as near to his
homeland as possible, so as to co-
ordinate his front with the fronts of the
Balkans and Russia .and save transport
and man-power to the greatest possible
extent.
And every day increasing Allied bomb-
ing is urging him northward. The word
I gel —hedgehog—still is featured in the
German defence lexicon. From the
enemy’s behavior on all fronts it seems
that the hedgehog is still his exemplar in
defence. All Germany seems to be
gradually rolling itself into a tightly-
compressed ball with every muscle hold-
ing spikes erect. There is still talk on
German radio of the efficacy of trench
warfare.
Fortress Raids Costly.
Allied losses in bombing raids over
Europe have begun to show that the Ger-
man is still possessed of deadly ingenuity
and vigor. His radio-steered aerial tor-
pedoes and new Milchnebel (milk-cloud)
fog are apt to - prove deadly to American
heavy daylight forces which depend lor
safety on compactness of formation, and
his rocket guns and massed searchlights
and cannon technique are still only in
their infancy.
The aerial torpedo has serious limita-
tions, but if the enemy has really found
a method of creating instantaneous upper-
air fog and of infiltrating Allied forma-
tions with “mosaic” defence, there will be
a real battle for European air control in
the next six months.
Over Schweinfurt (Bavaria), where there
are great ball- and roller-bearing works,
the U.S. Air Force lost 60 Fortresses and
two Thunderbolts, with 593 men, though
many of the lads are believed to be
prisoners of war. The raiders claimed
117 enemy fighters and great material
destruction. .
On October 12, before the raid took
place, Berlin asserted that 206 Allied
machines had been destroyed in the previ-
ous three days as the result of new
methods, but admitted heavy damage at
Gdynia on October 9 and the firing of
the 13,500-ton liner Scharnhorst, believed
to be in a Japanese harbor early in the
war. In the raids on October 9 more than
4000 U.S. airmen took part.
At Munster, the capital of Westphalia,
where heavy Fortress blows were deli-
vered on October 10, the raiders did huge
damage to the railway junction in spite of
swarms of German fighters; iO2 were
shot down. But 30 Fortresses and two
Thunderbolts did not come home.
The Eastern Front.
“Ek Dum”: Reporting of the
Russian-front war becomes more and
more unreal and more colored by
hysteria. The facts are that the Russians
are gaining ground in some sectors and
that the Germans seem reconciled to
giving up part of the Dnieper, if not the
whole of the Dnieper line ; but they seem
sufficiently in control of the situation to
hang on to pivot bases while they raze
them to the ground, and sufficiently well
knit in their defence-in-depth to behave
like a piece of sound cheese in the face of
apparently lethal penetrations.
If the Russian thrust at Neval, in the
north, was achieved at that highly
important point by main force, the drive
should have gathered sufficient momen-
tum to go on like a hurricane. But after
a couple of days it came abruptly to rest,
suggesting that the Red Army had surged
into a near vacuum and stopped when it
reached the walls.
Gomel’s Position
In the southern centre Gomel is the
pivot and joint of the Moscow and
Dnieper fronts. Weeks ago correspon-
dents related excitedly that all the de-
fences in front of it north of Kiev had
been scattered to the winds before
Chernigov, but the enemy has held on
to Gomel while, with characteristic ruth-
lessness, he burns it to the ground. And
further south, though the Russians have
crossed the Dnieper, for 15 miles in
places, including Kremenchug, at the
week-end they had not succeeded in
taking Dnepropetrovsk, a city of 500,000
people on the western bank lower down
the river. Moreover, Kiev was proving a
hard nut to crack. The enemy was raz-
ing it while the Russians broke open its
outer defences from the German side of
the river. On October 17 it was suggested
that a large garrison might be surrounded
as at Stalingrad, but there was another
report that the Germans had thrown in
new reinforcements and that fighting
along the south Dnieper was reaching its
fiercest pitch.
With the capture of Zaporozhe, an-
nounced on October 15, it was asserted
that “the last German stronghold on the
east of the Dnieper” was in Russian
hands. This was not literally true. Fight-
ing was still in progress in Melitopol, 150
miles east of the Dnieper mouth and
nearly 100 miles east of the Perekop
isthmus, gateway to the Crimea.
Zaporozhe in peace-time was a huge
mushroom city of 290,000 people which
had grown from nothing with the con-
struction of the Dnieperstroi Dam beside
it. Its staple was the biggest aluminium
works in the U.S.S.R. With the destruc-
tion of the dam its motive power and the
reason for its continued existence ceased.
The Germans left it a sea of flame.
During his 1941 retreat from the
Ukraine Marshal Budenny made no
attempt to hold the place.
At Gomel at the week-end the Rus-
sians, it was reported, were fighting in
burning suburbs, and had consolidated
their western bridgeheads along the Sozh
River north and south of the city. They
are here, and for 150 1 miles to the north
at Orsha, still many miles to the east of
the Dnieper. Just north of Kiev they
are so far across the river that their H.Q.
has moved to the west bank. But unfor-
tunately they were unable to break the
Gomel joint in time to crash through and
fling themselves across the German retreat
routes beyond the Dnieper in that region.
Two important railways run west from
Gomel —to Minsk and to Warsaw.
Gomel is 150 miles from the old Rus-
sian border, 350 miles from the boundary
between Russian-occupied and German-
occupied Poland.
At Zaporozhe the Red Army was over
400 miles from the old Russian border, 550
miles from the nearest point of the western
border of Russian-occupied Poland.
Blocking Off the Crimea
The Red Army commanders at the
week-end seemed to be shifting their
weight to the south in an endeavor to
close the exit from the Crimea. This is
a narrow four-mile-wide isthmus, swampy
and difficult, into which the Germans had
great trouble in breaking even when
southern Russian defences seemed to be
disorganised. It opens on the north on
to the wide, bleak steppe of the Tauride.
Across this steppe the Germans have been
flinging fierce counter-attacks to hold
back the Russians in the Melitopol area,
presumably while they evacuate the
Crimea, but perhaps not.
Moscow reporters are certain that there
are 300,000 of the enemy in the Crimea,
and a pincer movement seems to be
planned, with Timoshenko operating the
eastern claw across the Kerch Strait.
If it is the German intention to evacuate
the Crimea, it is most unlikely that
300,000 men are languishing there. A
third of that number could for a long
time hold salient points.
It is assumed that the cutting of the
Crimea-Zaporozhe railway “severs the
last rail link by which the trapped Ger-
mans can escape.” The fact is that the
wide steppe forms an ideal area for a
dispersed retreat once the bottleneck of
Perekop is negotiated.
From Perekop to the trans-Dnieper
railhead at Kherson is a matter of 54
miles. From Perekop to the nearest
point on the southern Dnieper it is only
36 miles. If the corner enclosing the re-
treat route cannot be pocketed off long
enough by a force which is strong enough
to hold back the Russians and set their
pace outside the Crimea, evert at present,
plus 300,000 men inside the Crimea who
would be coming out, the enemy’s troops,
equipment and fighting spirit are in a
poor way indeed.
Beyond the Dnieper, to reach the line
of the German retreat towards Odessa,
the Russians would from any direction
have to fight their way over no fewer than
seven main streams which run towards
the Black Sea, generally slanting down
across the landscape in a south-easterly
course. These include the substantial
River Bug, which forms a natural barrier,
in places nearly as difficult as the Dnieper,
all the way to the Aratynsk Hills on the
Volhynian border of Poland.
Last week several correspondents in
Eastern Europe reported that the Ger-
mans were withdrawing aircraft to the
west of Europe. This was confirmed by
Moscow broadcasters.
The Volhynia Line
No large batches of prisoners and
booty ace itemised as they were last
winter, though the Russians nabbed
a district Gauleiter at Melitopol. It
looks as if the decisive test in the
south will not come until the rail-
way network across the hills and high
ground of Volhynia the Zhitomir-
Berdichev-Uman-Bug-Dniester line is
reached. It is here in the south, with a
northward line to the Beresina, that the
Germans will have to make a stand if
they mean to try to retain a foothold in
the U.S.S.R. proper.
Portugal Hands Over Bases.
“Ek Dum”; The Portuguese agree-
ment to the establishment of Allied bases
in the Azores and the landing of British
detachments there are bound to bring
Britain’s oldest ally into the war in the end.
The Azores cover less than 1000 miles
of land, much of it high and craggy, but
there are some good harbors. The
nearest point of the European mainland
is 800 miles away. Portugal has valuable
metals, some of which Germany is now
getting. And Portugal owns Timor,
though it is now all under Jap control.
It would be an advantage to have
Delagoa Bay and Goa as Allied
belligerent ports. •
The Japanese are reported to have opened
some sort of an offensive on the Burma Road.
The. whole Burmese area is restless, and Jap
reconnaissance ’planes are ranging as far afield
as Ceylon—one was shot down there on Oct.
11 —and dropped a few bombs near Madras
which caused a few civilian casualties. But the
looked-for Allied offensive is not likely before
the beginning of December.
* * * *
Lieut.-General Pownall, who was Viscount
Gort’s C.I.S. in France, G.O.C. in the Malayan
area and C.O.S. to General Waved during the
campaign .in Burma and the D.E.I. early in
1942, has been named C.O.S. to Lord Louis
Mountbatten.
* * * *
There were Swedish reports of mutiny in the
German battle squadron headed by the Tirpitz
(45,000 tons) in Alten Fiord, Norway. The
Admiralty announced that British' midget sub-
marines on Sept. 22 entered the base through
intricate and heavily mined approaches and
fired torpedoes. Tirpitz was- afterwards photo-
graphed on the edge of a large oil patch two
miles wide; she was surrounded by busy repair
ships. Heavy detonations were heard by British
forces at sea during the attack. Three of the
midgets, with their two-man crews, are re-
ported missing, including one commanded by
Lieut. H. Henty-Creer, R.N.V.R., of Victoria.
* ■ * * *
Mr. Roosevelt directed that a very substantial
number of additional combat aircraft, over and
above those already allocated to the South-west
Pacific area, should be assigned to the use of
the R.A.A.F. during 1943 and v 1944 The
decision is already being implemented in rela-
tion to 1943 deliveries, and 1944 deliveries will
be settled in November Mr. Churchill,
after consultation with myself, directed the
provision from Britain for Australia of addi-
tioral Spitfire fighter aircraft fully tropicahsed
and of the latest type. These machines will be
manned by British personnel “It is only a
small instalment,” Mr. Churchill said, “of what
will ultimately be forthcoming from Britain for
the purpose of crushing Japan.”— Dr. Evatt in
the House {Oct. 14).
* * * *
There was considerable air activity in the
Dodecanese last week. Rhodes, Cprfu and
Cretan airfields were bombed. Berlin loudly
acclaimed a Turkish statement as to German
reoccupation of the little island of Symi,
near Cos, retaken the previous week.
* * * ♦
The Yugoslav controversy, Chetniks v. Par-
tisans, is engaging the attention of diplomats.
Marshal Rommel has been appointed C.-m-C-
-in Yugoslavia, an indication that the Ger-
mans expect much more than guerrilla warfare
in the Balkan region before long. Berlin’s
eyes are fixed not on “Tito” and his Partisans
but on that tough Briton, paladin of First
Libya, General Maitland Wilson, whose Ninth
and Tenth Armies are ready for anything.


Longer life for VALET Blades
jgAsnraa&ij
Keep the Strop
straight with
slight upward
pressure of hand
holding Razor
(2) Rub palm of
hand over strop be-
fore use to remove
dust.
)It is most important that the
' strop is not allowed to sag or
twist. A slight upward pressure of the
hand holding the razor prevents the
strop sagging, provided strop is held
firmly in the other hand and in such
a way that it cannot "twist" or "curl"
. . . ‘This ensures that the blade
edge is stropped at the correct angle
and that it does not "nick" or cut
the strop . . .
(3) Keep the handle
of the Razor at right
angles to the strop.
(4) Strop the blade
both before and after
use.
TOR
Blades
If if JTE HOHS
"scLh Whisky
SE
WHITE HORSE DISTILLERS LTD.,
Glasgow and London.
SPORTING NOTIONS
(Conducted by "PILOT")
With favorable weather and an attend-
ance of a little over 80,000 a record tote
turnover for Randwick of £155,207 was
not surprising. A lot of money was also
crowded out, and backers were collecting
dividends at a late hour.
Kiaree, who was never further back
than fourth, won the Epsom, leading over
the last furlong, but was lucky to beat
Prince. Starting from No. 20 Prince was,
as usual, slow to get going, and to make
matters worse experienced a check in the
first furlong. After appearing almost hope-
lessly placed half a mile from home he
put in such a good run in the straight that,
despite being slightly hampered, it looked
as if he might overhaul Kiaree, but the
task was beyond him. Right at the win-
ning-post he was not gaining on Kiaree.
Ron Rico came from a long way back
at the turn to get third, and there was
a lot of merit in Rimveil’s fourth. He
was very badly placed commencing the
last half of the trip. Fermanagh was a
good fifth.
Freckles and Hall Stand were the early
pacemakers. The latter was clear at* the
top of the straight and then tired, as did
Freckles. Nicely placed for five furlongs
Modulation was beaten turning for home,
apd there seemed little excuse for him.
Dewar was never in it, and Lord Neith
and Faerie Queene commenced badly.
The time, 1.37}, was the slowest since
Geebung won in 1.37}. Trained by M.
McCarten for Stirling Henry, the winner
was capably ridden by Queenslander N.
McCrowdie. Kiaree, who is by Mani-
toba from Yarree, by Heroic’s brother
Thracian, was a 260gns. yearling.
Modulation was the eighth successive
favorite beaten in the Epsom since the
popular choice, Synagogue won at 3 to 1
in 1935. Of that number Yaralla (third
last year at 2 to 1) was the only one to
get a place.
Moorland won the A.J.C. Derby with-
out really being tested as a stayer. He
went past Flight and Cremorne £ffter
going six furlongs, was well clear at the
top of the straight and won easily from
Flight. A furlong from home Flight
looked as if she might make a fight of
it, but the colt finished too strongly for
her. Mayfowl, though third, was never
a possible winner, nor was War Eagle,
who ran fourth. MacArthur’s showing
was as bad as it was sensationally good
in the Clibborn Stakes the previous
week. Never closer to the front than
fifth, he displayed neither pace nor finish-
ing ability.
The field did little more than canter in
the early part, the first half-mile taking
59, and it was only over the concluding
half-mile that the pace was on in earnest.
The time for the race, 2.37}, was the
slowest since Hall Mark won in in
1933. By Felcrag (son of Felstad) from
Bower jßelle, by Bernard from Forest
Charm, by Bardolph, and bred by P.
Reynolds, Moorland has proved a great
yearling purchase at 210gns. He has won
£7250.
Flight’s stable companion Twice
Royal (Royal Step-Princess Reine) was
the popular pick for the Gimcrack Stakes.
She showed all the pace expected, but
stopped to nothing after leading round
the turn by two lengths. Chantilly led
halfway down the straight, then giving
place to Birthright, who, however, could
not stall off Scaur Fel (Felcrag-Ginaton,
by Tomatin), who, costing 380gns. as a
yearling, is raced by “M. Lundern”
(Moorland’s owner) and A. R. King, and
is trained by S. Lamond. Platonic cut
up badly, and, apart from the place-
getters, Miss Sovereign showed to most
advantage at the finish. O’Sullivan was
on the winner.
Shining Night (J. O’Sullivan) from the
same stable as Kiaree, was responsible for
a good effort in winning the Sydney
Handicap, Gryphon led Amberspear
into the straight, Shining Night being
ninth or tenth, but he put in such good
work over the final furlong that he beat
Amberspear and Gryphon on the post.
Moondarewa, third at the turn, merely
plugged on to get fourth, while Cream
Puff’s fifth showed she was improving.
Feltpal was backed, but did not act up
to his previous week’s form. Of the
fancied runners nothing shaped worse
than Lambeth, while Grand Fils, who
surprised by running to the front at an
early stage, dropped right out at the
finish.
Katanga (Munro) was at his best in the
Colin Stephen Stakes. He shared the
lead with YaraUa half a mile from home,
and then, after shaking off the latter,
fought on gamely to beat Main Topic by
a head. Veiled Threat was third to
Katanga and Main Topic at the turn,
and finished in that position without ever
looking dangerous in the straight. It’s
Funny did well to run fourth, while
Goose Boy, as at his previous effort in
a w.f.a. race, was outclassed.
Air Link, favorite for the first division
of the Kensington Handicap, commenced
well, but quickly gave place to Bruega-
long and St. Quentin. Bruegalong was
first into the straight from Battle Kipg,
but Beau Head (Parsons), doing well
over the final furlong, won nicely from
Boorchief, while Pinero, who was slow
in finding his legs, was ridden right out
to beat Battle King and Bruegalong for
third in the last few strides. Earl-
borough and Pan Pipe shaped fairly, but
of the remainder none did sufficiently
well to suggest early success.
Enderby (Munro) and Brueghelier
shared favoritism for the second division
of the Kensington Handicap. After Royal
Emblem and All Out had shown the way
into the straight and Rylstope (K. Cook)
had run to the front when fairly on the
road home, it was in the last stride that
the last-named was dead-heated by En-
derby. High Flight, who did not display
his customary early dash, fought on well
to get third, while Brueghelier also made
a fair showing.
Amana galloped his way to Caulfield
Cup favoritism by again defeating Tran-
quil Star in the Caulfield Stakes at Flem-
ington on Saturday. He looked somewhat
lucky to beat the mare, but carried 101 b.
more than his Cup weight, met Tranquil
Star 171 b. worse than Cup terms, and
ran out the nine furlongs strongly enough
to indicate that he will get 1} mile.
Temple Chief, third, shaped well with
221 b. more than his Caulfield Cup weight,
but Sun Valley will have to improve con-
siderably if he is to win next Saturday.
Mac Rob, 25-to-l winner of the Herbert
Power Handicap, and Burberry, 15-to-l
winner of the first Toorak Handicap,
were scratched for the Caulfield Cup
before declaration of first acceptances.
Counsel, 16-to-l winner of the second
division of the Toorak Handicap, was
one of the early favorites for the Caul-
field Cup, but was scratched* after first
acceptances. On Saturday they defeated
many Cup candidates in their respective
races. Mac Rob outstayed Neutron, Bur-
berry fought on grimly to defeat Lilette
and Sir Richard in a “camera” finish, and
Counsel came from a seemingly hopeless
position to beat Dark Felt. Pantheist,
Skipton, Dominate and Heart’s Desire
disappointed their backers, but Amazed
showed improvement in the Herbert
Power Handicap and should be at his
top by Melbourne Cup day.
Lawrence enhanced his Derby and Mel-
bourne Cup prospects by outstaying the
former Melbourne Cup favorite Precept
in the Caulfield Guineas. Precept looked
all over a winner when he got through
on the inside to take the lead in the
straight, but was beaten a neck. Right
on the post, however, Lawrence was
doing very little if any better than Pre-
cept. Trainer L. Robertson has two of
the season’s best three-year-olds with
Simmering and Lawrence, while Neutron,
Phocion and Counsel are other Cup
horses in his team.
* * * *
The Caulfield Cup next Saturday
will be run in divisions. The V.A.T.C.’s
announcement to this effect last Saturday,
when 81 horses remained in the race,
afforded satisfaction to owners, trainers
and backers, and prevented what would
have been one of the greatest racing up-
heavals in Australia. Bookmakers had
agreed among themselves to retain all
money staked on horses which may
have been graded out after final accept-
ances, and violent betting disputes would
have ensued had the club adhered to its
previous intention to grade the field down
to the safety limit of 23 or 24. Volume
of Cups betting this spring has been
heavier than for many years, and, with
Caulfield Cup divisions, winning pre-
post bets will be halved.
Writing before acceptances the Mel-
bourne correspondent recommended for
Caulfield Cup divisions Damalis,
Amana, Temple Chief and Simmering.
* * * *
Only that form over the past few
weeks has been somewhat unreliable last
week’s running would seem to greatly re-
duce Metropolitan possibilities. It is
difficult to say much for the prospects
of horses with over 9.0. Katanga is a
good weight-carrier, but without the help
of Munro he should be beaten by Main
Topic, who will meet him 41b. better
than in the Colin Stephen Stakes. Rim-
veil finished well in the Epsom, but
though he has 21b. less that extra five
furlongs will bother him.
Shining Night will meet everything he
beat in the Sydney Handicap on better
terms, and the distance is within his com- .
pass. Moondarewa is one likely to be
improved by his run, but Grand Fils
stopped too quickly in Shining Night’s
race to give the impression that he is a
probable winner, even though he has
only 51b. more than when successful last
year. As Lord Neith was badly away
in the Epsom it might be unwise to
totally discard him, and Goose Boy, with
8.2, against the 9.3 he carried in the
Colin Stephen Stakes, still enters into
calculations.
Moorland won the Derby in good
style, but as that race was little more
than a dash over the last five furlongs,
and he was well beaten in the faster-run
Craven Plate, it is not yet definite he is
a stayer, even though it is generally
accepted that he will have no trouble in
getting the Metropolitan distance. Meet-
ing Shining Night 151 b. worse than w.f.a.
terms he will find the latter a tough nut
to crack. Ron Rico and Gauntlet may
find the trip a trifle far, and, as com-
pared with Shining Night, figures are
against the lightweights. Two’s Company
may do a little better than in her recent
races, but with Shining Night M. Me-
Carten has excellent prospects of com-
pleting the A.J.C. big double.
Miscellaneous
Up-and-coming Stan Wilkes made
short work of Tommy Johns at Leich-
hardt, Sydney. With a nicely-timed right
to the heart, and another to the chin, he
floored Johns for more than 10 seconds
in the third round. For some reason of
other, spectators hooted both lightweights
as they left the ring, but without such a
finale a Leichhardt night would scarcely
be complete,
Sydney Stadium’s matchmaker was at
his worst when he paired the American
negro A 1 Hoosman, who can box a bit,
with Bill Biddle, alleged to be heavy-
weight champion of S.A. Biddle was too
fat to flight, if he can fight, and the only
time Hoosman was in danger was when
it seemed as if the “champion’s” strangle-
hold might choke him. A left to Biddle’s
chin ended the infliction in the third.
FOR RANDWICK.
(Before acceptances .)
By “PILOT."
Canonbury Stakes. —Shannon, 1 ;
Majesty, 2 ; Buckle, 3.
Widden Stakes. —Birthright, 1 ;
Chantilly, 2 ; Twice Royal, 3.
Chester Handicap.—Hesione, 1 ;
High Flight, 2 ; Tahmoor or Indus-
try, 3.
Metropolitan.—Shining Night, 1 ;
Main Topic, 2; Moondarewa or
Moorland, 3.
Members’ Handicap.—Highgate,
1 ; Code, 2 ; Warlock or Denton, 3.
Final Handicap.—Faerie Queene,
1; Modulation,'2 ; Fermanagh or
Enderby, 3.
CAULFIELD CUP.
By “PILOT.”
FIRST DIVISION.
Heart’s Desire 1
Simmering ... 2
Fairway Freddy 3
SECOND DIVISION.
Temple Chief 1
Amana 2
Damalis 3


Women's Letters
From Sydney
Somebody has said that “horse-racing
is the sport of kings.” Then all to be
said is that some of the royalty present
at Randwick on Saturday must have for-
gotten their throne-room manners. The
whole afternoon Was a grand game of
push and shove outside the stands. The
lawn in front of the members’ stand was
the most peaceful spot. Here it was pos-
sible to sit on a garden seat on the green
sward and nurse the feet trampled and
jarred in the melee around the totes ,and
the ring. Over eighty thousand are said
to have been loose about that small
corner of Randwick. Caught in the mill-
ing throng the thousands seemed more
like millions.'
For this great day of Derby and
Epsom, women seemed to have spent
coupons wisely and well. Thefe were smart
suits, dresses and hats, although there
was a complete absence of fripperies.
Very atractive was Mrs. Scott-Waine, a
crisp white jabot at the throat of her grey
suit. Mary K. Woods was a slim sprig
in a suit of beige crepe and a hat of the
beret sisterhood in the same toning. With
her was fiance Gunner Cliff Gearin. Pat
Coen and Joan Allen were two young
good-lookers. Mrs. Paul Cahill’s hibiscus
reds caught the gaze (and, by the way, red
hats and bags had quite an innings). The
Denis Allens were there, the skirt of her
suit very pleated. Mrs. Marcel Deky-
vere, whose husband has just been
awarded the D.F.C., was among the
smiling. Mrs. John Norris, Mrs. lan
Platt-Hepworth (her hat of daffodil) and
Pat Murray were among the noted.
Still out after £5OOO for its daily needs,
the Y.W.C.A. got busy with the first of
two music recitals last week. The con-
cert was given in the recreation hall of
the Liverpool-street building, and more
than 300 listeners, 65 of them from
Killara, made no secret of enjoying
the programme provided by pianist
Dorothy White and the Mastersingers
Quartet, all well known to A.B.C.
audiences. The hall, which has good
acoustics, boasts an attractive stage,
hung with dull-gold curtains. Against
the background Dorothy’s dark-green
velvets were a harmonious color note.
The second part of the concert was a
triumph of artistry and an object lesson
in economy in electricity. If, was com-
pletely given by candlelight. Very old
and mellow silver branched candle-
sticks had been lent by Lawrence Harri-
son, of the North Shore line, and these
were set about the top of the concert
grand. Around Dorothy the Master-
singers grouped and sang spirituals.
Golden broom and arum lilies massed
about the hall were an added touch of
atmosphere. Mrs. Hope Gibson, who
organised the recital and is already deep
in arrangements for another on the 21st,
wore long black crepes sprayed with gold,
and looked pleased over the audience,
which included Archbishop Mowll and
his wife, the Mayoral Bartley couple,
knight John Butters and his wife and the
Charles Moses pair. Open House can-
teen workers were busied over serving
supper, tickets for which were sold by
Y.W.’s younger committee members.
Edwin McArthur, who will conduct
the Sydney Sytnphony Orchestra at the
Town Hall on October 26 in the interests
of the A.C.F. and the Dutch 'Patriotic
Fund, is no stranger to Sydney. He made
quite a dent on the consciousness of con-
cert audiences when he toured as pianist
and accompanist with Kirsten Flagstad.
The A.B.C. during that season invited
him to conduct an all-Wagnerian concert
with the Sydney Symphony Orchestra,
with Kirsten as soloist. Since then he has
led orchestras into action all over the
U.S.A. and Canada. He was‘born at
Denver, Colorado, and at 15 took a
header into concert work as accompanist
for Richard Crooks. Another American
musician will be starred at the October
concert. He is baritone Lansing Hatfield,
a member of the New York Metropolitan
Opera. He’s a Virginian, and grew up in
North Carolina. Edwin and Lansing are
here to give concerts to the fighting men.
The show of paintings by women
artists drew dozens of the sisterhood to
the Macquarie Galleries last Wednesday.
This was one of those masterpieces-after-
the-lunch-hour openings; that is to say,
it was timed for half-past one. Mrs.
Neville Cardus, who, it is said, ran an art
gallery of her own in London, made the
introductory remarks dealing with the
emergence of women from the back to
the front benches in life. She has a wit
of her own, and finished on quite an
unexpected note. %
Thirty-two artists are represented in
this exhibition by one picture each. The
subjects range through landscape, sea-
scape, portraits, still-lifes and flower
pieces. Dora Turret’s “Morning on the
River” would make a truant of anyone.
Dahl Collings’s portrait of Elaine Hax-
tom could not be camouflaged under
“Elaine” when Miss Haxton was there
looking so like her picture. Thea Proctor
was another who came along to the open-
ing. Elizabeth Blaxland provides a piece
of sculpture.
Tall, dark and athletic-looking Lieut.
Kenneth Sloan- is quite the pet of the
Minerva Theatre these days. The lieu-
tenant, in times of peace an actor, played
in “George Washington Slept Here” in
the U.S.A. And this, of course, was one
of the first shows he visited in Sydney.
Everybody at the Orwell-street playhouse
greeted him with cheers and beers (or
“near”-beers, times being what they are).
Yvonne Banvard gave her fellow-country-
man a grand party in her own flat, at
which all pertaining to Whitehall Pro-
ductions played their parts.
Claire Simpson’s playing of the Max
Bruch violin concerto No. 1 with the
Sydney Symphony Orchestra at the Town
Hall is still a topic of conversation
wherever musicians gather. Claire, a teen-
old, and one of three musical sisters, was
born in Maoriland. For the past five
years, however, Florent Hoogstoel at the
Conservatorium has been her teacher.
English violinist Thomas Matthews is an
admirer of this young player’s talents.
Photograph by John Lee,
Never has Australia had a more popu-
lar member of a consular body than
Henri Segaert, for so long Belgium’s
Consul-General in this country. He left
to go to Thailand as Minister Plenipoten-
tiary for his country, but returned in ill-
health shortly before war thundered
across the Pacific. Rest and the good air
of the Blue Mountains have restored him,
and he will go off to his new appoint-
ment as his country’s Ambassador (the
highest office in the service) to Chung-
king, his old genial and active self. Syd-
ney still remembers with gratitude the
glad nights it spent at the French
comedies produced by and acted in by
Mr. Segaert. Mrs. Segaert will not ac-
company her husband to China. For the
present she will remain in Sydney, where
her daughters and grandchildren will keep
her from being too lonely. One daughter
is Mrs. Fraser Coss, of Manly ; another
is Mrs. Andre Brenac.
Organist Lilian Frost notched up
another midday organ recital in the Pitt-
street Congregational Church last week.
It was the one thousand one hundredth
time Lilian’s fingers have wandered, not
idly, over the mighty keys of the noted
church’s instrument. Virginia Bassetti,
Esther Kahn, Stanley Clarkson and
Elsie Findlay were associated with Lilian
in this first lap of her second thousand
performances. The Red Cross benefited
by a silver collection.
Liftmen in large city buildings meet
with many and strange inquiries. One
in Sydney last week met his Waterloo at
the hands of a small, meek-looking
woman. She arrived breathless, just as
the lift was about to start. “Are there
any milliners in this building?” she
queried urgently. “Yes, Madam,” replied
the attendant. “There are 20.” The
woman looked so dashed that the man .
kindly tried to help. “Any idea of the
name of the one you are looking for?”
“I had it written on a piece of paper and
I have lost it,” explained the seeker.
“Do you know what floor she’s on?”
His patience was wearing a bit thin.
“No-o,” said the woman, “but [hope-
fully] her sister lives in Melbourne.”
Still another engagement. Betty
McCartney, daughter of the A. E.
McCartneys, of Lindfield, and Allan
McDowall, engineer-officer in the Mer-
chant Navy, have exchanged promises.
Allan hails from Port Chalmers, Maori-
land.
From Melbourne
“Why aren’t there any penthouses
here?” is a question Melburnians have
been asking each other since Dorothy
Helmrich’s arrival to take solo honors in
a symphony concert. She is full of enthu-
siastic talk about her Sydney penthouse
flat and has made this city’s troglodytes
green with envy. Claude Flemming, also
of Sydney, here to play the lead in
“Watch on the Rhine,” boasts that his
penthouse commands the best view in the
Southern Hemisphere—of the Harbor,
of course. In Melbourne penthouses are
mostly caretakers’ abodes, though the
Senatorial Leckies had one on top of a
tall Collins-street building years ago, and
Harold Gengoult-Smith in his bachelor
days occupied the same eyrie.
Next to a military march-past there’s
nothing to bring a crowd more quickly
to a given spot than a fire, particularly
if no one gets hurt and the general en-
joyment isn’t marred by any real danger.
A small fire in a city building a few days
ago brought literally hundreds to cheer
on the fire brigade, which arrived in
force. Even in these days when half the
nation seems to be in uniform there’s
something thrilling and romantic about
the firemen’s helmets that appeals to every
human breast from eight to eighty. Per-
haps it is because the headgear fashion is
shared with Britannia.
Walkers along the environs of St.
Kilda-road and the relatively quiet city
streets late at night say it is rather an
alarming experience to have the Liberty
Loan tram creep up behind one, blazing
with dozens of fairy lamps. Gentlemen
with vine-leaves in their hair and jumbled
memories of ghost trains and haunted
houses must be particularly impressed by
this form of propaganda.
Whenever the topic of education comes
up for discussion somebody complains
that present-day training of girls suffers
from a Great Lack, in that no attention
is given to the domestic arts. “Less 1066
and better wives” seems to be the slogan
of those who would replace Latin and
geography with cooking and baby-wash-
ing in the school curriculum. A recent
protestant on this score was Mrs. Claud
Couchman, who at the A.W.N.L. Con-
ference made the additional suggestion
that young women in munition factories
should take time off for classes in house-
hold management. What the munition-
ettes think of the suggestion hasn’t been
stated, or perhaps has been too vigor-
ously expressed to be suitable for publi-
cation.
Following in family footsteps is Eliza-
beth Paterson, pictured here by Athol
Shmith. Niece of Esther and Betty Pater-
son, who’ve made a snug niche for them-
selves in the sphere of book and song
illustration, Elizabeth has been a stu-
dent at the Gallery Art School for some
time. With two other students she ex-
hibited for the first time recently and the
critics were complimentary.
Though Elizabeth is reckoned as one
of the “modern” school, her solid Gal-
lery training shows through her work.
She likes sunlit scenes and the atmosphere
of her paintings is cheerful. Another
young painter who is following the Pater-
son family tradition is cousin Barbara
Newman, who has won several student
prizes during her Gallery course.
Australian animals at the Baldwyn
wild-life sanctuary had their noses rather
put out of joint when the Chinese lion
arrived on the scene on Saturday. Occa-
sion was the Australia-China Co-opera-
tion Association’s celebration of the
Chinese Lion Festival, and the lion in the
case was really a small dragon (only
really big dragons earn that title in China,
and they take part in another festival
about Eastertime). The animal and the
dances that accompanied his progress
were arranged by the Chinese Seamen’s
Union, and the affair was in aid of
China’s Famine Relief Fund.
The Opportunity Clubs provide the
charitably- and patriotically-minded an
excellent object for their benevolence,
and a good return is expected from a
special drive now being made by the
clubs for funds. The generous are urged
to send donations to headquarters at 60
Market-street or to telephone the presi-
dent of the Ladies’ Council of the clubs
(JU1927) if they’ve some time or service
to offer instead.
The Un-Named Players are putting on
“Toad of Toad Hall” at the Uni. Union
Theatre for this good cause on October
30. Opportunity Clubs aim at giving boys
and girls from poorer areas a chance to
learn skilled crafts. They also wage war
on malnutrition by providing “Oslo”
meals.
Few departing presidents have been
farewelled from the chair of honor with
so much regret as was Mrs. S. J. Powell,
who resigned from the presidency of the
Sailors, Soldiers and Airmen’s Mothers’
Association last week. Past 80, and cheer-
ful about it, Mrs. Powell, who doesn’t
mind people knowing she was christened
Sarah Jane, has the qualifications of a
chairwoman in extra full measure. She
is adept at bringing an overwordy speaker
to a close without feelings hurt, and can
keep a wide-ranging discussion to the
point. Incidentally the association which
she has guided so surely since the last
war is now, quite understandably, wel-
coming a big accretion of membership.
Reporting on its activities during the
last 12 months the Air Force Auxiliaries
Committee adds to its list of welfare
functions the sending of fresh eggs to
off-the-track fighter stations. It is
pointed out that men in these spots are
living mostly on canned food, and a
fresh egg for breakfast is nothing short of
a miraculous event. Eggs travel in staff
’planes when these happen to be avail-
able. Unfortunately fresh fruit and vege-
tables aren’t able to stand the heat of the
trip, but the Aux. Committee is going
.into the subject to see if this service can
be extended by other “carryable” food-
stuffs.
Patricia White, daughter of Wing-
Commander T.’ W. White and Mrs.
White, who is an aircraft technician in
the W.A.A.A.F., has a natural interest in
flying inherited from air-ace father.
Before becoming a Waaaf Pat was work-
ing in an aircraft construction plant for
a year and a half. An Arts course at
Melb. Uni., which she was doing as a
preliminary to training as an almoner,
will have to wait till after the war.
Old girls of Lauriston G.G.S. heard
with great regret of the death last week
of Miss Margaret Irving, a co-principal
of the school at its inception in associa-
tion with her sister, Miss Lillian Irving.
Miss Margaret was a woman of much
charm, and her influence extended beyond
schooldays and outside school bounds.
She was a daughter of Melbourne Uni-
versity’s first processor of classics, who
also has a claim to fame for adding row-
ing to the list of collegiate sports. The
family are descendants of Edward Irving,
one of the greatest preachers of his day,
and the first love of Jane Welsh Carlyle.
Colonel Sybil Irving, A.W.A.S. comman-
dant, is a niece.
For her wedding at St. Patrick’s
Cathedral on Friday to Captain Hugh
Mulcahy, A.A.M.C., Rosmarie Kenny
wore the veil which graced her sister, Dr.
Elizabeth Kenny, a few weeks ago. It
was first worn by their mother, Mrs.
A. L. Kenny, who before her marriage
was Olga Zichi-Woinarski, a violinist.
Rosmarie has 'inherited her mother’s
musical talent and .is outstanding among
the younger group of pianists.
Adelaide and Melbourne friends of
Miss Ida Turner, who died in Melbourne
of Friday, are recalling her magical touch
with flowers. A member of Government
House personal staff and a frequent com-
panion of the vice-regal party at official
functions, she was able to tell at a glance
just how and where the great masses of
flowers needed to ornament G.H. state
rooms should be placed, and her advice
on colors and decorating ideas was always
well worth taking.
“Young women are no longer one hun-
dred per cent, idealists” was the conclu-
sion arrived at by the Matrons’ Associa-
tion’s conference at the Mercy Hospital.
It was agreed that the time when nurs-
ing presented itself to girls mainly as
an opportunity for self-sacrificing public
service has gone for ever. But there was
no despondency on that account. While
it was conceded that ideals remain an
essential part of a good nurse’s make-up
the matrons championed the cause of
underpaid and overworked nursing staffs,
particularly those in country hospitals,
and suggested reforms —after the war.


SURFER 'S FOOT
m m
i w. r
» U,
m
fIOOK~
Berwtvt
.yOUR
L rots^
FROM YOUR
CHEMIST
PRICE 2/-
Can Cripple You
★ Beware of this crippling
infection. You may be infected
without knowing it. The first
signs are cracked skin and itch
between the toes. These danger
signs call for prompt treatment
with lodex to kill the germ and
to soothe and heal the damaged
tissues.
★ In severe cases see your doctor
IX
NO-STAIN lODINE
. SPECIAL, NOTICE.
THE HYGEIA DISSOLVENATOR
Is not just a modified closet pan but a complete self-contained sanitary system
in itself. All matter is dissolved and sterilised in the machine and automatically
runs off and is absorbed in the soil. No water supply required.
APPROVED BY THE BOARD OF HEALTH AND IS EUEEY GUARANTEED.
Many_ other chemical systems have come «and gone during past years, but the
sturdiness, efficiency and longevity of the Hygeia Dissolvenator are beyond dispute.
NO SMELLS. NO ELIES. NO GERMS.
No emptying or unpleasant jobs. Any handyman can instal it.
Price, £l7/17/6 f.o.r. SYDNEY, Including 12J% Sales Tax.
Plus 25/- surcharge. Crating (if necessary) 10/9 extra.
WRITE OR TELEPHONE EOR ILLUSTRATED PAMPHLET.
HYGEIA SANITARY Co. Pty. Ltd.
Obtainable direct from us or all leading stores t pastoral firms , etc. Agents all States.
Queensland Pastoral Supplies, Ltd., Brisbane; Harris, Scarfe, Ltd., Adelaide; Victorian
Producers Co-op. Co., Ltd., Melbourne; R. P. Mclnferney and Co., Ltd., Perth.
YOU CAN
in the
. IFOUMTIHI
LIBERTY LOAN
Interest accrues from Date of Subscription
THE GRAMOPHONE COMPANY LTD.
(Incorporated in England)
HOMEBUSH N.S.W.
Din Hasten wlce*
RONALDSDNTIPPETT
Your Chance to Serve —
BUY IVAR SAVINGS
CERTIFICATES.
rpHE re-fuelling of armoured equipment, transport vehicles,
and aeroplanes “in the field” is a job which calls for
organisation of the highest order.
This Portable Re-fuelling Unit (for which we manufacture
the 3 h.p. Ronaldson-Tippett Vertical Petrol Engine) may
be a small contribution to the sinews of war, but it plays
its part in the smooth operation of the war machine.
Building dependable engines is a work in which we have
always specialised, therefore, building engines for these
Re-fuelling Units sets us no greater task than to live up to.
a reputation already established.
RONALDSON BROS. & TIPPETT PTY. LTD.
Head Office; BAIXABAT, Victoria. -
N.S.W. Distributors: Bonaldson Bros. & Tippett Pty., Ltd.,
Frazer House, 42 Bridge Street, SYDNEY.
Q’land Distributors: Konaidson Tippett (Old.) Pty*, Ltd.,
Parbury House, 13? Eagle Street, BRISBANE.
SMOKE-OH!
“Didn’t know he had pistol, man claims.”
—“Daily Mirror.”
The defence was just a shot in the
dark.
•I- *l* >!• “I*
“I am engaged to a fine man, but he has an
ungovernable temper. He gets angry enough
over a trifle to strike me.”
— “Sun” correspondent.
Why not serve him plum pudding for
a change?
4* 4<
“To make one tank, 100 tons of coal are
needed.” — Suburban paper.
About eight stone of nagging wife can
also create one.
•P *J*
“It is surprising how much improvement can
be effected in the street by,a few extra fights.”
—Suburban paper.
They make it more homely.
•h
“Avoid hurried meals notes.
Sydney restaurant patrons have no
alternative.
“Berlin military officials state that the men
who escaped are apparently hiding in the
bountains, where they do not represent any
danger.”— “D.T.”
Beyond that of spreading their heavy
colds.
*l* *S* *!• *
“Scones made with a tablespoon of dripping,
a squeeze of lemon and an egg will be crisp
and tasty.”— “Daily Mirror.”
So much for the old-fashioned woman
who thought you had to have flour to
keep a scone together.
4* 4*
“The tribal deity of these Indians, usually de-
picted as a man with the head of a / wild boar,
was regarded as a type of ruthless and obstinate
determination.”— Travel book.
One would expect him to be pig-
headed.
<s* 4* 4*
“Orator’s ability to finish was shown at the
last meeting.”— “Sun.”
When the audience howled him down?
•i* *i* *i» *i*
“Accused protested that she hadn’t been
drunk. Someone had grossly insulted her and
she had become angry.”— “Sun” report.
This was the way it came about:
There was a riot and some din;
Simply because she was put out
The lady was put in.
Request with Reservation.
“Punters’ Metrop. Hope.”
“O gods of Fortune” {punters pray)
“Watch over us on Metrop. day.
Give us the zeal and courage, gods.
To quibble not at fearful odds.
Give us at least the dinkum dope,
- Or luck to pick the winner.
But, if immutably it’s writ
That you’re against the favorite,
This is our legion’s fervent hope:
Don’t give the books a skinner!”
P. O. M. C.
Black Marketeer’s Epitaph.
Though underhand was all his trade,
His body underfoot is laid,
And, void of crooked feelings,
He’s lying straight; but I’m afraid
That on the other side his shade
Will have some shady dealings!
T. W. NATHAN.
Account Rendered.
“The modern wife knows just as much about
accounts-as her husband.”— Woman’s paper.
“I have no patience,” said Maria,
“with tradespeople who put mysterious
signs on their bills, like this. E. and O.E.
here.”
“That’s easy,” I said. “It means Errors
and Omissions Excepted. It’s used”
“Yes; and when you go in to pay
they say there’s something they’ve for-
gotten, and add that to the bill. I know
them! But what I intend to do is strike
out that E. and O.E. and say I’ll pay
what’s on the bill and not a penny more.
And then there’s all this swank, like
Sanditt the grocer putting ‘doctor’ on his
accounts just to make people think”
“That isn’t ‘doctor’; it’s ‘debtor.’ ”
“It doesn’t matter what it means; it’s
put there to deceive people. It’s just the
sort of thing that Mrs. Sanditt would
think of. She’s the most stuck-up”
“Yes, yes,” I said wearily. “But I’m
trying to explain to you how to keep the
household accounts so that we can see
plainly how we stand and if we can
economise.”
“You boasted you had an overdraft,”
said Maria suspiciously.
“I said I was allowed a small overdraft
at the bank, and that’s been exceeded.
There’s all these debts.”
“Well,” said Maria triumphantly, “if
you have this overdraft at the bank why
don’t you draw it out and pay them off?
That’s the simplest way, isn’t it?”
“Oh, heavens! ” I cried in agonised
freenzy, extending a clenched fist up-
ward.
“Don’t go on in that mad way,
Aitchem,” snapped Maria. “And as for
your telling me how to keep accounts, I
know as much about them as you do
when I think of putting things down. So
there! ”
H.M.
Change.
“Mr. Lang introduced himself as a new mem-
ber.... When he attacked the Government the
Labor members rose in a body and left the
Chamber.”
Timers whirligig ! No longer is he playing
Speaks with the crowd who fawned on
him for crumbs.
“New member” now, indignant, bent on
flaying
His erstwhile pals, he to the Chamber
comes.
And then, what time the tortured welkin’s
riven,
By all his former mob the air he’s given.
K.
Knit Tog.
“Retired English Colonel Champion
.
Bo Da Throw writes :
The members of the Bolingbroke-on-Winkle
Sewing Circle put down their cups and sat
back expectantly
“And now, colonel,” said Mrs. Dingle, “what
ahnnt snmp nf thr.se fhrillhi (r pxnpriences that
about some ot those thrilling experiences that
you surely must have had on the North-west
Frontier? Do tell us about some of them!
Colonel Fitzpostlethwaite-Tiltyardde coughed
deprecatingly behind his enormous moustache.
“Well, there’s really not much to tell, ladies,”
he said modestly. “But there was one time when
we were up near the Khyber. I was with the
Poona Light Rifles then, and—egad!—it was
all I could do to restrain my subalterns—as
wild a lot, I vow, as ever a commander had.
Ha! Ha! I recall one scalawag in particular
—Lieutenant Lord Fauntleroy; I had known
him since he was a little lad in green velveteen
pants. There was not a man on the Frontier
quicker than he with a pair of No. 8 needles.
Tough as I am, I admit that at casting on a
basque even I couldn’t touch him. Damme,
he was a wizard! Often, flushed with a few
rounds of old-style ginger beer in the mess,
he would challenge one of the others, and,
though those affairs were against King’s Regu-
lations, I admit that I often found something
to do elsewhere, though once outside I would
chuckle to myself at the wild doings. Boys
the hill tribes were fierce and
fanatical. One of the leaders who caused me
most trouble was the Mad Mullah.
“Picture the man, ladies! Of commanding
he'gjffi supple as whipcord, with a swarthy,
hawklike face and bright, piercing black eyes,
in ! ra^ tably . savag ? expression. Truly a
P gure to comman d awe m those who observed
him We k he was somewhere j n t h e hills.
He had SW( / rn to us a visit and we all knew
what that would
mean.
“One oppressively hot, eerily-still night I
and my officers were seated in the mess. Wc
had just finished our frugal eight-course dinner
when the bamboo blindg were thrust noiselessly
aside and into the room stepped the Mad
Mullah and two of his lieutenants. It was his
promised visit! Stab me! It was a moment to
set any old soldier’s spine tingling. Remember,
we had not a weapon among us. Our visitors
were heavily armed.
“The Mullah rapped out a harsh word to his
men. Then that awful piercing gaze fell on me.
H!s hand went swiftly to his side and”
“What did he attack you with, colonel?”
squeaked Miss Meadows excitedly. “His
double-edged sword or something?”
Colonel Fitzpostlethwaite-Tiltyardde coughed,
“No, ladies,” he said calmly. “It was a sock
he was knitting. I’d promised to show him how
to. turn the heel—it’s a very tricky thing, you
know!”


THE OTHER FELLOW'S MIND
The contributor placed first is paid
4Jd. per line; all others 2£d. per line.
The Black Market
Mr. Curtin is reported by “S. M.
Herald” to have said, while commenting
on a recent successful black-marketing
prosecution, that it might have been more
to the point to charge the offender
with having had in his possession stolen
property. This would have forced him
to disclose the source of the property.
No doubt the offender wishes that the
prosecution had been conducted on those
lines. One would think that even a poli-
tician would know that you can’t charge
a man with having stolen property in his
possession without first proving that it
was stolen: and, further, that you can’t
force an offender to disclose anything—
under the British legal system, anyway.
There are ways and means of doing so
in Germany, Russia and Italy, but Eng-
land abolished the system 300 years'ago
and has not returned to it.
Wonderful how the mind of a Labor
politician reverts to the idea of force
when things aren’t going as he likes —
unless, of course, the offender happens
to be a striking coalminer. — Fitzwilliam
(N.S.W.).
Rationalising Trade-unionism
The first step in rationalising trade-
unionism is to ensure that the men who
vote at committee meetings, and particu-
larly the men who are responsible for
negotiation, are by knowledge and intel-
ligence fitted to do so. Before any man
may become a full member of the union
he should serve a probationary period
during which he would attend lectures on
the fundamental economics of his trade ;
on how his country is governed ; on prob-
lems of production and management as
created by personnel. He will be expected
to be conversant with and to understand
the terms of his particular award, and to
know how experts arrive at cost-of-living
figures.
Upon the completion of the first series
of lectures the man will be required to
pass a test or examination in which his
knowledge and intelligence will be
assessed. The test to be conducted by an
impartial body.
Only those men who pass the test
should be admitted to full membership,
with power to vote. Failures should be
entitled only to honorary membership,
enjoying benefits but without power to
shape policy. The standard required to
pass any test will be more exacting as
the man moves up to an executive posi-
tion in the union. By this means it will be
ensured that men who have an under-
standing not only of the problems of
their fellow-unionists but also of their
employers will be negotiating in the
event of a dispute.
Could not businessmen combine with
unions and Governments in the sponsor-
ing and financing of an adult education
scheme on the lines indicated?
Large firms could carry out their own
scheme in part by the publication, say
quarterly, of a booklet outlining company
policy, difficulties of production, etc.,
and containing instructive articles de-
signed to assist their employees to a
wider understanding of the business.
I have worked as laborer and trades-
man ; and during three and a half years
of service in the armed forces have had
opportunity to listen to the opinions of
men of many sorts and learn what they
earnestly desire. Upon the education of
the worker and the willingness of the
employer hinges the success or failure of
any New Order in industry,—T. S, M.
(R.A.A.F.).
Post-war Policies
If Australia after this war accom-
plishes reconstruction as successfully as
it did after the other war there will be
little to grumble about.
No country in history treated its
veterans as well as Australia did. First
there was deferred pay, quite a nice sum
where service had been lengthy. On top
of this came a war gratuity, again a com-
fortable sum, sufficient in many cases for
a man with a real desire for rural life
to acquire his own land. For those desir-
ing a return to or entry into industy
there was vocational training, in which
the apprentice who had interrupted his
learning of a trade went back to the
workshop as a full-paid man while finish-
ing his time. Others without any trade
were taught one. So thousands became
expert bricklayers, carpenters, etc. To
provide work for these we had the War
Service Homes construction —subject to
some criticism at the time; but those
veterans who acquired such homes now
“sit pretty,” while homeseekers surge
around on an apparently hopeless quest.
There were other items, some of them,
such as land settlement, not, of course,
successful in all cases. But taken as a
whole Australia did a good job for her
returned men of 1919. Whether she will
be able to do better for the veterans of
this war remains to be seen but she will
certainly have to follow much the same
lines as previously, ideas which in the
main part germinated in the brain of
W. M. Hughes.—W. C. C. (W.A.).
Mass Production
Post-war employment in this country
will hinge on the full development of new
and already established secondary in-
dustries. And if Australia is to compete
successfully in world markets for her
industrial products introduction of mass-
production methods will be unavoidable.
Mass production has its faults, of
course, but for speed and low cost it is
incomparable; in war it is the only
method worth considering.
Australia will be particularly fortunate
if it adopts these methods in industry
when one considers the many thousands
“Which one of you office boys put a tack on my chair ?”
of men and women in the services and
munition annexes who have undergone
short technical courses in various trades
and then had the opportunity of apply-
ing, practically, what they have learnt.
These trainees may not be as skilful as a
man who has served a full apprentice-
ship, but they would be quite at home on
the assembly line. Decentralisation of
the industries for defence and population
reasons must follow as night the day.—
Petermac (N.S.W.).
Attracting Population
“W.C.C.’s” plan (B. 29/9/’43) to induce
“tens of thousands of virile young Ameri-
cans” to settle here permanently is excel-
lent. The difficulty would be to convince
them that the attractions of King’s Cross
and Booroomugga excel those of Fifth-
avenue and P’kipsy. It would be just as
hard to convince the virile young Aussies
in New Guinea and other battle areas
that the reverse is the case.
My tip is that when the war is over
the vast majority of the exiles will be
breaking their necks to return to their
homeland, wherever it is. In any case,
it is to be assumed that Washington will
have a big say in the final disposition of
the A.E.F. There are no such diffi-
culties as those referred to in regard to
Jews. Given the opportunity they
would settle down and make good citi-
zens in any country that would give them
sanctuary. — R. H. Parkes (Tas.).
R.A.A.F. Ranks
The distinction between combatant and
non-combatant commissioned ranks in
the military forces should be made more
apparent than at present. The R.A.A.F.,
because of the titles used, provides some
startling examples. One I have in mind
is of a pilot-officer who trained in one
of the first courses and now has two deco-
rations gained on active service. He also
made nearly 80 visits over Germany and
occupied Europe ; and now, after four
years, has received promotion to the rank
of flying-officer.
A non-combatant man who passes out
of the School of Administration with the
rank of pilot-officer is on the expiration
of six months promoted to flying-officer.
He wifi probably not even see an air-
craft, except high over his head, and will
live and work far from the sound of
bombs and guns.
Put both these men before most people
and no one would be aware of any dif-
ference. Only one of them is worth the
title “flying officer,” yet the rank in each
case would suggest a flying man. Some
reform seems to be long overdue in jus-
tice to the men who fly, fight and risk
their lives in other places than in an office.
—lago (Vic.).
Daylight Saving
It would be interesting to find out
whether schoolteachers, especially in
Queensland, have noticed any deleterious
effect on children’s capacity for study
through daylight saving. The frequent
yawnings of my children at the breakfast
table prompt me to ask the question.
They seem tired, and a tired child cannot
put his best into anything, be it work or
study.
Accustomed to retiring and going to
sleep at a certain hour almost from birth,
children simply can’t manage to go to
sleep at the changed hour. All child-
welfare authorities stress the importance
of habit in a child’s life.
Children are unable to get that extra
hour’s sleep in the mornings, for the house
is astir early; dad and very often
mum these war-time days have to get to
work early. If mother is not on a war
job she has numerous errands to go, for
shopping is difficult and deliveries almost
things of the past. The loss of one hour’s
sleep or rest every day must have an ill-
effect physically and mentally on growing
and studying children.—D. M. (Q.).
Tasmanian Scholarships
With the coming in Tasmania of the
scholarship exams, for children under 14
years, to give them an opportunity to
continue higher studies at a technical or
high school, a special recommendation or
permit must now be given by the head-
master before a child can enter.
Individuality and originality needn’t
count in the headmaster’s eyes. He can
have his own fixed personal ideas, and if
the child doesn’t measure up to his
standard so much the worse for the child.
In the old days all children sat for this
exam., and some of the alleged duds
turned out trumps. And we never heard
of the idea of the teacher selecting bur-
sary winners.
1 nrefer the old system.—Tasmanian
(Tas.).
A Comb-out Needed
The Commonwealth Government has
recently announced its intention to release
a number of men from the Army to
relieve the man-power shortage. I sug-
gest that a thorough comb-out of the
public service be made first. The Prime
Minister, as reported in Sydney “Sun,”
38/7/’43, promised a deputation from the
Returned Soldiers’ League that if his
party were confirmed in power a
thorough comb-out of Government de-
partments would be made. There has
been no attempt so far.
I had clerical experience in one of
these departments for nearly six months,
during which time I did literally nothing.
I was one of many. I became so dis-
gusted and disillusioned as to what I
observed going on that I demanded my
release and, being an incapacitated re-
turned soldier, obtained it. I had to
report to the man-power authorities, and
the first and only position they sent me
to was touting round Melbourne selling
typewriter ribbons —and yet there is talk
of man-power shortage!
From my observations of the past few
weeks I am convinced that many returned
men from this war are walking the
streets looking for employment.—R.
Dodd (Vic.).
Limitation of Rice Crops
A Queensland ricegrower, having
increased his area from 20 to 200 acres,
has been refused seed for planting. The
reason given is that “it is not desired
to encourage the growing of rice in
Queensland because of an agreement be-
tween the Queensland rrjd N.S.W.
Governments whereby all rice was to be
grown in N.S.W.”
This agreement was made 13 years ago,
and if a Queenslander had not had the
temerity to start ricegrowing presumably
rice would never have been grown in
Queensland.
Rice has been “frozen” in Queensland
.for two years. But that fact did not spur
our Government, to any action to annul
an antiquated agreement until the present
impasse thrust it upon it.
Surely it should be as obvious to poli-
ticians that we are seriously down on the
production of many foodstuffs ; that we
have to feed the greatest population we
have ever had, our forces and allies ; and
that much of Europe is on the verge of
starvation.
It surely behoves every State in Aus-
tralia to produce food in greater quan-
tities than ever before. — Olive M.
Green (Q.).
Advice to Young Writers
April McKee-Wright talks sense when
she says young Australian writers
shouldn’t be ignored (B. 6/10/’43). But,
as a freelance for 14 years, I feel com-
pelled to give her these few tips.
(1) “Even to be told one’s work is
lousy” is encouraging, she says. Well, in
10 years or so, lady, you won’t need to
be told. You’ll know. Of course, you’ll
still send MS. in, but when you’re just
ignored you’ll reckon you’re lucky. The
Boot is easier to get than mere Indiffer-
ence. So don’t ask for too much criti-
cism. You’ll get so much of it that
absence of it will finally be a real
pleasure.
(2) You can’t be a freelance journalist
without certain important items: First a
tongue, to be used solely for licking
stamps on the self-addressed envelopes
which accompany your manuscripts. (If
you place the stamp fairly well down on
the envelope, the postmark won’t catch
it, and you can reef the stamp off some-
times and use it again. This means a
yearly save of about three and six, exactly
half of your yearly income for the first
10 years.) Secondly you need Addresses.
Not the addresses of newspapers. The
addresses most necessary are those of
reliable pawnshops. Given three of these,
a freelance journalist can survive for at
least 15 years —Uncle’s Niece (N.S.W.).
Destruction of Wildflowers
When I first came to Sydney, many
years ago, I appreciated immediately the
favored position the city enjoys by rea-
son of its great area of bushland reserves,
but I was amused at the regulations,
posted up here and there in the forests,
prohibiting the picking of wildflowers.
The reserves were so vast in area and
so sparsely visited that the regulations
seemed farcical. I’m wiser now. Many
flowers which abounded 15 or 16 years
ago are now either exterminated or very
hard to find, and others seem to be
headed in the same direction, particularly
native roses, boronia and the waratah.
Frequently in my rambles over the
Kuring-gai Chase and in other parts of
the Middle Harbor area I have seen
people hacking and tearing out flowers
and bushes, loading cars or trucks with the
spoil. Met a ranger once, and pointed out
a gang of raiders to him. “What can I
do?” he asked. “If I ask for names and
addresses they’ll tell me to go to blazes.
Even if I knew r who they were I’d have
to prosecute on my own hook and pay
all expenses, and a magistrate would
probably impose a ten-bob fine.”
He was right. The only way to save
the bush flora is to prohibit the sale of
it. Shops which make such a brave
show of wildflowers at this season of the
year buy from people who pilfer
Crown reserves. That condition of affairs
will continue until either the law does
something effective about the selling end
of such transactions or until the damage
done brings its own sad retribution. —
Bushlover (N.S.W.).


“every Hour
They Fight
THE MAXIMUM STRENGTH
WILL BE GIVEN TO THEM.
I ASK FOR THE DEVOTION
THIS WILL SYMBOLIZE...
The Rt. Hon. John Curtin,
Prime Minister.
INVEST IN THE
4 th
LIBERTY
LOAN
AND SPREAD THE BURDEN
Inserted by William Arnott Pty„ Limited, Homebush
