

f
The Bulletin
“The Bulletin,” VoL 64. No. 3316
Wednesday, September 1, 1943
Price 6dL
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.
Seppelts
FERNIEHIRST’S HISTORIC RUINS.
TN the brave days of old, the border country between
* Scotland and England was the scene of much fierce warfare.
Among the many towers and castles that garrisoned the district,
that of Ferniehirst in the Jed Valley is prominent. The original
castle here was frequently the home of Scottish kings, but was
pulled down in 1409. Also in this locality is Jedbuigh Abbey,
founded early in the twelfth century for Augustinian monks,
but dissolved in 1559. Later, the ruins passed to the Marquis
of Lothian, whose ancestors, the Kers of Ferniehiist, are une
in the north transept, and whose ancient stronghold was Fernie-
hirst Castle, of which the modern view is here shown. Fernie-
hirst Castle has many interesting associations, including a visit
paid to these ancient towers in 1803 by Sir Walter Scott with
Wordsworth and his sister Dorothy.
On Ferniehirst's grim walls
No lingering shadow falls
From ancient broil and plot
Of Douglas, Kerr and Scott,
Since, by the sylvan Jed,
With cheerful, musing tread,
Wandered those Frendly Spirits Three-
Waiter and William and Dorothy.
The castle has been strengthened and carefully restored and now,
national property, is a hostel for the youth of Scotland.


Ttorvi Writing
This Book FREE to YOU!
STOTT’S CORRESPONDENCE COLLEGE.
100 Russell Street. Melbourne.
Please send, without obligation, your New Free
Booklet, explaining how to Write for Profit, at
advertised in the Sydney “Bulletin.'’
My Name
My Address
S.B. 243
The Red Page
The Wickedness of Success.
“Mr. Gallagher,” said Mr. Shean, “I
must solemnly warn you never to become
a successful professional boxer.”
“Owing to a certain irrepressible boy-
ishness of nature which makes me, when
hit hard once upon the nose, disinclined
for further combat,” replied Mr. Gal-
lagher, “1 am not likely to take the game
up seriously. But I have always admired
those who do, and why on earth should
I not emulate them if I choose?”
“Because you will break your poor
old father’s heart,” said Mr. Shean.
“I have been able to maintain toler-
able relations with my sire,” observed Mr.
Gallagher, “only because he has had the
supreme wisdom to refrain from heart-
break on all allegedly heartbreaking
occasions.”
“But the consequences to yourself,”
persisted Mr. Shean, “will be even more
devastating. You will end by breaking
your neck.”
“You unnerve me,” said Mr. Gallagher.
“You will be loved by a blonde,” said
Mr. Shean.
“You terrify me,” said Mr. Gallagher.
‘ You will make a lot of money,” said
Mr. Shean.
“You appal me,” said Mr. Gallagher.
“Shall we then,” asked Mr. Shean,
“both write to Mr. Clifford Odets and
tell him that, having read his ‘Golden
Boy’ (in the Readers’ Union Theatre
Omnibus), we have unanimously decided
not to become successful professional
boxers?”
“I regret to inform you,” said Mr.
Gallagher, “that I find myself wavering.
There is something curiously attractive
about money ; and even blondes”
“I have noticed it myself,” said Mr.
Shean. “A charm. Almost a Tempta-
tion. And that is exactly Mr. Odets’s
point. As successful professional boxers
we are inevitably corrupted by blondes
and money.”
“What shall we do to be saved?” asked
Mr. Gallagher.
“Our poor old father,” said Mr. Shean,
“wants us to stay home and practise the
violin.”
“But successful violinists are also in-
describably tempted by blondes and
money,” objected Mr. Gallagher.
“Mr. Odets must have forgotten that,”
said Mr. Shean.
Perhaps we had better be successful
something-elses,” suggested Mr. Gal-
lagher. “Supposing we settled down as
a couple of successful fishmongers,
leather-machinists, opticians, fruiterers or
six-day bike-riders?”
“The blondes and the money would
get us, ’ said Mr. Shean. “According to
a Mr. Harold Clurman who introduces
Odets’s play, the simple American-Italian
youth who rashly becomes a successful
professional boxer is a symbol of every-
body who has to fight for success of any
sort in a corrupt, capitalistic society
abounding in money and blondes, I
quote Harold Clurman:
The story of this play is not so much
the story of a prizefighter as the picture of
a peat fight in which we are all involved.
What the golden boy of this allegory is
fighting for is a place in the world as an
individual; what he wants is to free his
ego from the scorn that attaches to “no-
bodies in a society in which every activity
is viewed in the light of a competition. He
wants success not simply for the soft life
—automobiles, etc. —which he talks about,
but because the acclaim that goes with it
promises him acceptance by the world,
peace with it, safety from becoming the
victim that it makes of the poor, the alien,
the unnoticed minorities. To achieve this
success he must exploit an accidental attri-
bute of his make-up, a mere skill, and
abandon the development of his real self.’ ”
“His real self, I take it,” asked Mr.
Gallagher, “is the self that stays home
and plays the violin?”
“So his poor old father thinks,” agreed
Mr. Shean. “We have an extremely
pathetic curtain in an opening scene when
Joe has decided to become a boxer and
his poor old father, who has bought a
violin for the boy’s birthday, sadly de-
cides that he can’t give him the present.
And then a little later when Joe has won
a big fight and shouts ‘Hallelujah! It’s
the beginning of the world,’ his poor old
father’s heart is broken again and the
stage direction says, ‘Mr. Bonaparte, lips
compressed, slowly turns his head away,’ ”
“Nobly repressing his despair,” said
Mr. Gallagher. “And then at the end
when this rash young man has been
duly corrupted by blondes and money,
has accidentally killed a man in the ring
and has then accidentally killed himself
in a motor smash, I suppose the poor old
father’s heart is finally and irrevocably
broken?”
“On the contrary,” said Mr. Shean,
"Mr. Bonaparte seems to bear this last
sad news with equanimity ; with, indeed,
something approaching satisfaction. I
quote:
Mr. Bonaparte ( standing , his head
high): Joe .. . Come, we bring-a him
home . . where he belong .. . (Slow fade-
out.)
“This revolting old man,” said Mr.
Gallagher, “this monster of a parent who
tries to keep his son at home playing the
violin when he is thirsting for life and
adventure ; this ancient dimwit who can-
not perceive that the young man instinc-
tively and rightly prefers to be a good
boxer rather than a second-rate violinist ;
this elderly prude who thinks that
blondes and money—the delights and
rewards of combat—are a corruption ;
this timorous old goat who has himself
retired beaten from the struggle of life
and tries to make a failure of his son
before he has even started to fight and
who obstructs him at every step of his
career; this vulture gloating over the
slain body of his son —he is, of course,
the villain of the play?”
“The poor old vulture,” said Mr.
Shean, is the hero. Success is the vil-
lain. This play was recently performed
by an amateur group in Sydney, and
now when I walk the town I feel myself
surrounded by young men and women all
grimly determined not on any account to
be successful professional boxers.”
“An admirable resolution,” said Mr.
Gallagher. “And, I am sure, a great
comfort to their poor old American-
Italian fathers.”
The Preacher and the Ghost.
Despite some regional quaintnesses
which, though mild beside those of Dylan
Thomas s verse or Caradoc Evans’s
prose, occasionally give a gay and
pleasant flavor to his poems—
Shoni bach Amos drunk again!
And your whiskers long and white,
And your nose as red as a sunset
And your old, old eyes so bright—
Idris Davies’s The Angry Summer is a
surprisingly bad book to have been pub-
lished by Faber.
A collection of short poems all written
around the one theme, the Welsh coal
strike of 1926, it has some value, per-
haps, as a curiosity. If, as is possible,
even inferior works add something worth
while to the snowball of a national
literary movement, it may have its place
in the contemporary Welsh Revival. And
to anyone who, forgetting that in all
centuries the temptation to crude politico-
religious moralising has been the down-
fall of poets (Wordsworth, for example),
imagines that our own age is exempt
from a fundamental principle of art, the
angry hymns will doubtless give great
religious if not literary satisfaction.
But Faber poems have hitherto been
published primarily for their literary merit
or interest. And, unless as an Awful
Example, there is no literary interest in
writing such as this:
In Capel Hebron the choirs are singing,
And Martha and Jane and Hywel and Emrys
Are lost in the rapture of anthem and chorus
And the walls of the chapel .are shaking with
song
And wave after wave of music crashes
Over the maddened multitude.
Chorus of Handel, mighty and glorious,
Rolls and reverberates again and again,
Tearing the barriers and bastions asunder,
Shaking the heart and the depths of the soul.
O spirit of music and wonder and passion
Flood with thy rapture our desolate valleys,
And give unto men the motive to action,
The impulse to build what is worthy of man.
In this, as in any age, the poet’s lot is not
a happy one. If he speaks out plainly
and with passion as Davies does, he is
liable to slip into Davies’s crudity. If he
does not speak out plainly and if he
represses his emotions, then his work
may turn out, like John Pudney’s Beyond
This Disregard (Bodley Head), merely
vague.
Pudney’s “Crew Room,” one of the
best of his short poems about the R.A.F.,
illustrates both his merits and his short-
comings :
Beyond this disregard,
The casual answer and the hard
Brief pranks,
Is kindness which is metal
Patterned as stalk and petal,
As the wide flower frank.
Yet Fear and Death, abstract
And terrible as dreams, enact
The scene
Against which these stand gainly,
Living nobly or vainly,
Parting with casual mien.
Beyond some sum of words,
Some bashful imagery of birds
Are spun
Together out of laughter
More than the senses after
Ever will make of disregard or fun.
Principally in the second stanza, there
is clearly some literary quality here. It is
not great poetry, but it is much nearer
poetry than are Davies’s hymns. There
is also literary interest: an experimental
form, an attempt at reconciling the tra-
ditional poetic world of “petal” with the
new world of “metal,” a controlled sim-
plicity of language, and an attempt at
the poetry of understatement. Those are
the merits of what is, if not a very good
poem, at least a serious attempt at one.
The poem’s defects are obvious. Pud-
ney has tried so hard not to say too
much that he has hardly said anything at
all. The understatement is very close to
an evasion. A poem should be “about”
something. Davies’s poems are about
the wrongs of Welsh coalminers. On the
surface, Pudney’s poem is not “about”
anything very much. He says that the
airmen are undergoing an experience be-
yond that of disregard or fun.
What he means to do, surely, is to
affirm the heroic. It is not a great dis-
tance, one feels, from Pudney’s “beyond
this disregard” to Rupert Brooke’s
“swimmers into cleanness leaping.” The
experience which the airmen are under-
going is the whole experience of war:
knowledge of life and death, attainment
of personal integrity, awareness of Fear,
Death and Heroism, gigantic behind the
mask of casualness.
But if that is what Pudney means to
say, he says it far too reticently. He
does not offer a poem, but the
shadow or the ghost of a poem,
shape without body, smoke without
fire. An evasion of felicity of style
and profundity of emotion is none-
theless an evasion for being deliberate.
It may be that the disrepute into
which Brooke fell after the last war when
disillusion became fashionable has fright-
ened contemporary poets from openly
affirming the heroic. Or it may be that
Pudney is afraid (“Shall I write us a
patriotic poem?” he asks rather wistfully)
of writing patriotic hymns in the way
that Davies has written industrial hymns.
As to how he could contrive to write
war poems that really say something
without falling into patriotic hymn-sing-
ing, there are no rules. It is a matter of
personal capacity. Davies’s moral fervor
cannot conceal his deficiencies in tech-
nique and vision; Pudney’s vagueness
confirms the impression of his previous
books that his talent, though genuine, is
slight.
The Muslim World.
The aspirations and prospects of count-
less millions of Muslims are analysed in
Islam Today (Faber), edited by A. J.
Arberry and Rom Landau.
Turkey, as officially non-Islamic, is not
included ; the 25,000,000 Muslims of the
Soviet are passed over briefly, as are the
25,000,000 of China, the 500,000 of Thai-
land, the 400,000 of Indo-China, the
500,000 of Ceylon and the 300,000 of the
Philippines.
Aden and the Protectorate, Saudi
Arabia, Iraq, Syria, Palestine, Egypt, the
Sudan, Libya, East Africa, the Western
Sudan and the west coast of Africa,
Algeria and Tunisia and Morocco —these
are the great Islamic communities in the
Arab countries surveyed in Islam Today
by such authorities (and, incidentally,
fine writers) as Landau and Freya Stark.
Hugh J. Schonfield’s account of Musso-
lini’s early barbarities in Libya and sub-
sequent attempts at reconciliation is par-
ticularly interesting. This is what Musso-
lini, when he proclaimed himself Pro-
tector of Islam, expected the Arab world
to forget:—
Graziani was given a free hand in the
subjugation of the country and the task
was entirely to his liking. In an utterly
brutal and inhuman fashion he set to work
to occupy Libya “acre by acre,” as he put
it; it took him the best part of 10 years. In
the course of the conflict he well earned the
name of “the Scourge.” Over months on
end 30 persons a day were executed. Escap-
ing Arabs were taken up in ’planes and
hurled on to the rocks below. In the piti-
less desert wells were sealed with cement.
Nearly half the native population of Cyre-
naica perished; 80,000 of them with their
cattle were turned into the wilderness of the
Gulf of Sidra. Between 1926 and 1933 the
number of sheep was reduced from 800,000
to 98,000, camels from 75,000 to 2600,
goats from 70,000 to 25,000, asses from
9000 to 5000, oxen from 10,000 to 8700
and horses from 14,000 to 1000.
Non-Arab countries surveyed in the
book include two of special interest to
Australia: Malaya and the Dutch East
Indies. Edgar Wallace makes an odd
appearance as an instrument in the break-
ing down of Muslim conservatism in
Malaya:
In 1922 Sayyid Shaikh brought out the
first volume of a history of Islam which
was to be completed in some 4000 pages.
The Malay public was not interested and
the venture did not pay. Sayyid Shaikh
therefore turned to the adaptation of
modem Egyptian love-romances, with such
success that his works became best-sellers
and parents named their children after his
heroes and heroines. His avowed object
was to provide attractive guides to right
conduct in a changing social order, and
such a theme as pure love before marriage
dealt with a temptation new to a society
where early marriage had been the rule.
Sayyid Shaikh also published a series of
detective stories translated from the Arabic
version of a famous French series. ,
With the money earned from these pub-
lications he financed serious journals that
handled moral, social and religious prob-
lems in a liberal vein. Overlapping his
works of fiction was a Home Library
Series translated by the Education Depart-
ment and comprising such books as The
Man-Eaters of Tsavo, Lamb’s Tales from
Shakspeare , Stevenson’s Treasure Island
and novels by Jules Verne and Edgar Wal-
lace, or about Sexton Blake, all of which
were exceedingly popular.
Other non-Arab countries dealt with
are Iran, Afghanistan and India. Sir
Hassan Suhrawardy, dealing with the
Pakistan movement, which stands for
self-government for the Muslims of
India, is somewhat optimistic: “The
beauty of a bouquet is in the blending
of flowers of different colors and various
perfumes, each having a special feature
of its own. The sub-continent of India
can easily be a Rajistan of the Indian
Princes, a Pakistan of the Muslims and
a Hindustan of the Hindus, united under
a Pan-American idea of forming a great
Pan - Indian confederate Nationalism.”
Easily!
SUNDRY SHOWS.
At the talkies:
The British Army and R.A.F. photographic
units have made “Desert Victory” (coming to
Sydney Embassy) the war’s most convincing
document. More than anything it gives a clear
conception of what a terrible place the vast
Libyan Desert can be for an army facing defeat,
and what gigantic efforts of supply and organi-
sation had to be made to make Rommel’s de-
feat possible. After a few preliminaries the film
opens on the eve of El Alamein. There is the
hush over the darkened battlefield; glimpses of
the tense, glistening faces of tankmen, gunners
and infantry. Then opens the great barrage
which preceded the break-through. Then
Rommel’s northern flank cracked, the tanks
poured through and the 1400-mile retreat
started. “Moscow Strikes Back” gave the im-
pression that most of the shots were taken on
manoeuvres; in “Desert Victory” there is not a
foot of celluloid that doesn’t show stark, recog-
nisable war. There is one unforgettable shot
of a solid phalanx of thousands of prisoners
coming back, all clustered around a lone British
tank; another, from a ’plane, of seemingly
thousands of trucks snaking over a desert
littered with burnt-out tanks and ’planes; yet
another of an infantry charge to the bagpipes.
The measure of the photographers’ work may
be gauged by the casualties they suffered —17.
The American Armed Services Band,
which has been playing at Sydney Town
Hall, is a remarkably versatile organisa-
tion of 80 members, capable of tackling
anything from the Ninth Symphony
(choral effects and all) down to the latest
swing hit. Among novelties in its reper-
toire are “The Dead Line,” a symphonic
representation of the bustle in a news-
paper office as the paper draws near the
minute of going to press, and a piano-
forte concerto performance by a “child
prodigy.” “The Bells of St. Mary’s,”
sung by the company, with glockenspiel
effects, was another first-night applause-
rouser.
The ghost of Bernard Hall walks again
in the latest exhibition of Ernest Buck-
master at the Melbourne Athenaeum. For
30 years Hall held absolute sway at the
National Gallery and Buckmaster was
one of his most successful pupils. This
array of landscapes, still life and por-
traits shows that he has never wavered
in his allegiance to his old master. It
would be as impossible for him to intro-
duce a bit of surrealism into a picture as
for a parallelogram to "play football.
Hans Heysen’s drawings, in charcoal,
ink and tint and so forth, are a special
attraction at Sydney National Gallery.
His studies of the gaunt South Australian
mountains, of trees and of farm scenes
are evidences as to the depth of his affec-
tion for the scenes most congenial to his
brush and pencil. The degree of his
accomplishment in an austere medium is
evidenced by his wonderful treatment of
light in such studies as “Old Smithy,
Hahndorf,” done 25 years ago, and in
“Autumn Morning” and “Frosty Morn-
ing” of more recent date. “In the Aroona
Valley,” done two or three years ago, is
a masterpiece.
W.A. Drama Festivals announce that
Dymphna Cusack’s “Comets Soon Pass”
won this year’s annual competition.


"TRUTH IN ADVERTISING"
"THE SENIOR STORE"
ANTHONY HORDERNS'
120th Year of Service
52
s.
im
CT*>
*lv*
k
h- ■
mm
X
■m
m %
m
m
CJL.
4#%
■ :V^
i •■%'*s ’*sr Jj /"
■ v-f y- ; '•- •• • *
:: . :K ?% "". £?•>■
m>.
m
M
m
m
m
mi
mmm
m
m# .ft
m
S' Y X
■ // , /
t,r rp ; f /; | y
m
> *
'
/ *
w
f ; m
f ss. Y Y...J
>v <
V *'s
I
vVV*-’ I •
Vj&k-
%%*;V
v*vsk;**
O 50/* Furnishings—Third Floor.
D
KEEP THE HOME
BEAUTIFUL
50 only, fitted style Nottingham Lace Bed-
spreads with attractively designed panel top.
The size is 90 inches by 108 inches.
Price .' 77/6
No Coupons Required.
UNILLUSTRATED.
Fancy Design Satin Cushions with ruching
and pleatings on the top and attractive puffed
walls. Obtainable in Blue, Green, Rose, Gold
or Brown. No coupons. Price, each .. . 32/5
A—4 B-inch Tapestry. An excellent cloth for
furniture coverings or curtains. Rust or Brown
tonings. No coupons. Price, yard 12/S
B—4o-inch Off White Tapestry. A delightful
fabric that will produce a good effect for either
curtains or coverings. No coupons required.
Price, per yard 15/-
C—4o-inch Fabric Fisher Net in a hard wear-
ing quality. Obtainable in either Biscuit or
Arab shades. No coupons required. Price,
per yard 2/11
D—Brise Bise Curtain Net with pocket at the
top for a rod. Excellent wearing and wash-
ing quality. Obtainable in four widths and
in the shade of Biscuit. No coupons.
Sizes 21" 24” 27" 30”
Prices, yard 3/9 3/11 4/6 4/11
ANTHONY HORDERN
FAMOUS LOW PRICES
PHONE: M 2401 (DAY AND NIGHT)
BOX 2712 C, G.P.0., SYDNEY


S. H. PRIOR PRIZE
For reasons already stated, there
will be no competition inviting sub-
mission of MSS. for the duration of
the war at least.
As no award was made in the
competition which closed on June 6
this year, the total prize-money
offered for the current competition
is £2OO.
The Prize will be awarded to the
author or authors of the book by an
Australian writer which the trustees
consider the most valuable contribu-
tion to Australian literature pub-
lished in Australia between June 6,
I and June 6, 1944. (“Aus-
tralia” and “Australian” for the
purposes of this award include New
Zealand.)
No work that has already won a
monetary prize will be eligible.
THE LAST OF OUR HORSES
By JAMES HACKSTON.
ESL/s
br e ° Charlie
and Chester Father had been hoping,
dreaming, scheming—hungering even—to
own another fine thoroughbred, but cir-
cumstances had prevented it.
He could have afforded a cheap-look-
ing horse of ordinary breeding, but he
had tasted the joy of owning those two
fine, handsome, well-bred champions, and
any horse not up to their standard was
now beneath his contempt. He liked to
be seen driving something flash and
showy; a horse that made people envy
him.
He had something to live up to, for
had he not been known far and wide as
the owner of Charlie, famous for his fire-
works on the roads, and of Chester, the
kicking, plunging, baleful-eyed rogue and
outlaw, renowned for his defeat of our
buggy and his conjuring feats getting out
of harness?
And now Mother, slyly, and without
a word of warning, had landed a forlorn-
looking old mare on the family. As she
said, “A horse I can drive myself and
take the children out for a spin. None
of your fiery thoroughbreds for me,
Walter —my Mary Ann won’t smash the
buggy up.”
“Am 1 to take it then,” said Father
loftily, “that Mary Ann is the name of
the decrepit, downtrodden, emaciated,
dismal, destitute, worn-out, knock-kneed
bag of bones and misery you have
brought home?”
Although this description of Father’s
was on the cruel side, Mary Ann was
certainly no oil painting.
She was so woefully poor and feeble
that when she moved you felt you could
almost hear her frame come undone, and
dreaded seeing her skin go and her whole
body disintegrate. She had a monstrous
head, a drooping, downcast head that
weighed down heavily on a ridiculously
thin neck. You could have sharpened
your knife on the bony ridge of her
back, hung your hat on the miniature
pyramids of her rump. Her sides were
corrugated, and she was gone in the
legs ; so much so that when she walked
her hind legs slithered in and threatened
to slide from under her. She had hardly
any tail, and when you first saw her you
wanted to laugh in spite of the fact that
her sad appearance made you sorry for
her.
SO you can imagine how Father felt;
Father, the proud and haughty Eng-
lishman and past owner of repute, whose
horse-creed was “A thoroughbred for me
or no horse at all.”
As he said, “No man with a vestige of
pride would have such a useless, ugly,
dried-up old wreck seen on his property.
Such an animal about a place gives it a
look of failure and defeat.”
“She’s as docile as a lamb,” said
Mother simply, “and when I have learned
to drive well enough I’ll be able to take
you into the town, Walter.”
I could see at that moment the awful
picture Father had in mind ; an undigni-
fied, humiliating picture of himself
sitting up sheepishly beside Mother in
his own buggy—a buggy that was known
for miles round —with Mother, smiling
like a happy child, driving timidly and at
snail’s pace while local residents flew
past them with smirks and wide grins on
their faces, some openly guffawing.
I guessed correctly, too, for I heard
him mutter “Not so long as I draw
mortal breath.”
And when he suggested that Mother
should keep her “champion” somewhere
at the back of our place, and Mother
replied that indeed, no, she would do no
such thing, that she was going to keep
her Mary Ann close at home so that her
Mary Ann would get used to our home
and not want to leave it, and that she
would be kind and gentle with her Mary
Ann so that her Mary Ann would not
stray, I saw another cruel picture I
guessed Father must have in mind, this
time a humbling picture of Mother’s
“bag of bones and misery” being seen
on his property by all the people driving
along the road, with the alarming thought
in the background that in a short while
the road would be busy with all the
bloodstock from the north going down
south to the show.
What a nightmare! What a blow to his
prestige—Father’s most treasured posses-
sion.
But Mother went on happily with her
Mary Ann, caressing her and patting her ;
and she fussed over her so much and so
successfully that not only did Mary Ann
take a fancy to Mother but to our place
as well, and, what was worse for Father,
insisted on draping her bony frame
almost on our roadside house itself, and,
what was still more unfortunate, took a
fancy to the front of it, and persistently
so, and for some unknown and inexplic-
able reason, to our very front door, with
Father seething with hurt pride, seeing
looks from all passers-by where
there were none, and hearing in the
mumble of a passing voice—or a cough
or a sneeze insults, sniggers and
chuckles ; and, in eyes he could not see,
looks of laughter and mockery.
“CTOMETHING will have to be
’done,” he said as the show drew
perilously near.
He got me one night to sneak Mary
Ann into the paddock at the top of our
place with instructions that when Mother
discovered that Mary Ann had “strayed”
I was to pretend to go and look for her
this to go on until the show was over
and all the people had returned from it;
then he’d devise some “decent” way of
getting rid of Mary Ann and get Mother
another horse, not a champion, maybe,
but at least one that would not be a dis-
grace.
1 did as I was told ; Mother discovered
that Mary Ann had strayed, and I went
“searching” for her until the morning
the owner of the top paddock came rid-
ing out unexpectedly on his fine black
stallion, found Mary Ann trespassing on
his property and headed her straight for
the town pound.
But the old mare, when passing our
place, made a desperate effort to regain
the peace of our front door, and, lasting
long enough to gain it, toppled over and
lay an inert and limp mass with her head
resting right on our front doormat —
where she continued to lie peacefully,
not in the least concerned about the man
on the plunging, earth-churning stallion
who was trying to get her up or the un-
seemly brawl that went on about her and
almost on top of her.
And when the fight was over and the
man gone she was still there, and all
Father’s urgent, blood-sweating efforts to
get her up again were of no avail.
Of course Mother knew we had double-
crossed her, but she didn’t say much ;
only her mouth was very firm, and when
Father said that “poor” Mary Ann should
be “humanely” destroyed, and at once,
she looked him out of countenance and
said she would see to her own horse her-
self, thank you, and get her well again,
and that Mary Ann would stay where
she was until she had recovered.
AND down the road they came, with
their tails bunched and bound with
ribbons of pink and blue, their manes
flying their silken pennants, prancing and
pawing, bending and arching their great
satiny necks, tossing their combed and
shining manes, lifting high their tasselled
hoofs, pounding the earth, rearing up and
pawing the air, showing alternate bursts
of panic and peace, pausing like statues
carved from stone, next moment alive
again, curving and pirouetting, tossing and
fuming, jigging and dancing, first one
way and then the other, trotting sideways,
revolving, circling, backing, rearing and
going through the whole display of fiery
acrobatics all over again, the sheen and
satin of their coats running along their
rumps, playing on their great rounded
muscles, on their copious haunches like
sunbeams on running water, like the play
of light on dancing leaves. Here were
blood and arrogance, strength and de-
sire, the fruit of fine blood and human
care, sires of the great deep, white-chested
draughts that pulled the straining, groan-
ing loads along the dry, hot, dusty roads.
Came the lighter blood of the north:
supple, well-shaped stallions and mares,
chiselled representatives of the buggy
horse and the hack, their limbs twitch-
ing, their nostrils filling with hot breaths
and blowing red with the lust of life ; and
came with them wheels glistening and
sparkling in the sun; trim turnouts,
buggies, sulkies and jinkers, spotless and
polished, flashing by, their ebony sides
gleaming in the sun, their red and
yellow wheels rattling the road, the
pebbles flying; and their owners, their
faces glowing, their eyes full of the light
of battle and conquest, proud of their
charges, proud of ownership, hoping to
take the prizes, hoping to beat the other
fellow, their hard hands holding taut the
straining reins that pulled on the bit and
the bridle.
And with this cavalcade of blood,
majesty and beauty flashing past, there
was old Mary Ann lying motionless and
looking like a bag of bones on our front
doormat: with Father behind the window
curtains breathing heavily, large beads of
perspiration clotting his pained forehead,
his eyes mirroring the disgust, envy and
mortification that was burning within
him, and Mother trying most deter-
minedly to pour water down the throat
and poke stray wisps of limp, useless
grass into the set, unyielding mouth of
the slowly-dying Mary Ann.
A ND as the cavalcade went trium-
Cvphantly by people’s heads turned and
their eyes stared; there were pauses,
stops, slowing down of wheels, pulling of
reins ; and out of the goodness of their
hearts and that fine brotherly spirit that
binds together all lovers of the horse they
came trooping to our front door.
They asked Mother questions, solici-
tously, kindly, gave advice, felt Mary
Ann, looked into her eyes, forced open
her mouth, lifted her legs, raised her
head and stood round like a sad gather-
ing at a graveside while Mother looked
quietly on and Father, hiding inside and
refusing to come out for all the tea in
China, glared at them, muttered frightful
imprecations—moving quietly and agon-
isingly from foot to foot as he did so,
desperately clenching his hands and
swearing in a whisper by all the gods in
Olympus that never would he recover
from such humiliation.
How they would snigger and smirk at
him when they had got out of sight!
What would they not say about his
horse? He knew them ; they were only
poking their noses in out of idle curi-
osity. They were not sorry for the ani-
mal, and were only pretending to want
to help Mother.
Mother! What a fool she was! There
she was believing them and making a
fool of herself, and of him, too, into the
bargain. And, heavens alive! there she
was telling them everything.
He clenched his hands, and hot gusts
of breath came out of him. The fool
she was, yabbering away. Listen!
Telling them how we put the mare in the
paddock, and that the owner on a fierce
stallion found her there and tried to take
her to the pound.
Fierce stallion! Pooh! It was not
such a well-bred horse as he claimed it
to be.
No, not by any means, damn him!
It was outrageous ; why the hell didn’t
they get about their business? Why
didn’t they get to the showgrounds in-
stead of making a show of a man’s place,
drawing the whole neighborhood to it?
My word, this would be a lesson to
him. No more would Mother bring a
bag of bones home to his place. He’d
be master in future ; so help his God he
would. Fancy him coming to this, and
after owning Charlie and Chester, too.
A man, as he said, cast down into the
lowest depths of degradation.
“Yes,” said Mother. “My husband
took the clothesprop to the man and
threw it at him when he was leaving.”
“Took the clothesprop to him!” a
voice repeated, and it was the voice of a
well-known horsy man Father hated.
“I’d like to go out and punch him on
the nose,” Father hissed.
“Yes,” Mother’s voice went on, “and
the man said he’s going to prosecute my
husband for assault as well as sue him
for trespass.”
I could hear the quiet hisses of my
father, see the angry rising and falling of
his breast.
Mary Ann weathered it out until
all the people had returned home
from the show (and passed our
asus
fematas "tmd
away.
were different now. Once
* when Father wanted something badly
he used to tear up through the scrub and
feverishly churn up the creeks and gullies
to find a nugget to buy it with. Not so
this time. What he wanted so urgently
and badly this time was something too
big, too important to trust to the un-
certainty of finding gold or selling even
his inventions to get it.
He sat for weeks thinking furiously of
ways and means to make money—lash-
ings of money. Yes, he’d show them'
Why, Charlie and Chester would be but
crocks now up against what he was
going to own. Yes, he’d show ’em
But he didn’t divulge his fortune-mak-
ing plans to us as he had always been in
the habit of doing ; not that we were in-
terested this time, for we knew that if his
hidden scheme to acquire wealth did
come good it would not mean that I would
be sent to Oxford as he had always
threatened me, or that Mother would get
the thousand-pounds diamond ring she
had been promised, or that we’d all go
home to England, and Father have foot-
men with buckles on their shoes and gold
braid on their coats as he had wanted in
the past.
No, j knew that his new lust for riches
was but to buy one horse—none of your
local champions, but the greatest horse
that ever lived; a horse that would be
the champion of all champions; a horse
w j t ] l blood that would make mongrels of
all the rest of the bloodstock; a horse
that would be the sire of all future
champions ; a horse that would cost not
fifty pounds, nor a hundred pounds, but
hundreds, may be thousands; a horse
from afar—Arabia! England! France!
A horse that he would own ; a horse that
WO uld make all the squatters’ champions
look like mules ; a horse that would make
all the horsy men for hundreds of miles
round want to shoot their own thorough-
breds in disgust, that would turn their
stomachs up in dismay, make them spit
for whole weeks, froth at the mouth in
anger, lie awake at night wishing, make
them envy Father beyond all feats of
envy, put chagrin in their hearts and
flood their eyes with an undying admira-
tion for Father’s gleaming, glittering,
snorting champion thoroughbred of
thoroughbreds, greatest and mightiest of
a fl horses.
Moving in Mist.
Moving in mist down unfrequented pathways.
Fingering fence-posts pricked and patterned
with frost,
Look close at the wavering, stayed now, coral-
line branches, .
The terrified feathers of frost frozen in ruffling
With a furling nimbus of air.
Who knows? They are miniature forests, they
stiffen, feigning,
As a bird goes through the trees with a warn-
ing whisper
Saying Be still, be still.
What murmuring sweeps their branches after
we leave them?
What knavish, ironical laughter lifting the air.
But who’s on fire with desire for the fitting
image , , ,
While feet .grow cold on the rutted road, and
silence
Twitches the ear with portents?
Though, doubtless,
The stars, these brackets of fire, as they are
Will slide in white ash from the sky. And,
doubtless,
Mab’s in the dairy or hides in the cart from
the milkman
And Lob’s asleep, curled up in the covered
tractor,
While the swagman snores in the bracken hollow
beside him,
And nowhere need be dismay.
N.S.W.
ROSEMARY DOBSON.
The Unknown Tongue.
The silhouette of the tree
Upon the sunset sky
At close of day,
The cricket’s shrill cry,
The last notes of sleepy birds,
These cast a spell,
These speak to me;
But what it is they say,
Those lovely words,
How can I tell?
My little Aberdeen
Knows by the tone
Of the voice alone
That I speak to him,
And on my face he turns
His wistful, earnest gaze.
“Oh, how I wish,” he says,
“I could tell what you mean.
Is it a bone or a walk?
Are you offering joys
Or just being kind?”
Nothing, nothing he learns,
For to his dim
And clouded mind
All my talk
Is but a vague uncanine noise.
Maoriland.
ARNOLD WALL.


The Bulletin
Vol. 64.—N0. 3316.
Wednesday, September 1, 1943.
END OF THE FOURTH YEAR.
“Now don’t set impatient—there are two more passengers to come!”


The Bulletin
Tlie National Australian Newspaper
“Australia for the White Man”
Directors:
H. K. Prior
P. H. Prior
J. E. Webb
David Adams
HEAD OFFICE: 252 George Street. Sydney;
Box 2521 BB; ’Phone 87971
Victoria: Newspaper House, 247-249 Collins
Street, Melbourne.
Queensland: 239 Adelaide Street, Brisbane,
Westralia; 33 Barrack Street. Perth.
New Zealand; Nathan’s Buildings ( opp.
G.P.0.), Wellington.
London: 1 Hare Place, 47 Fleet Street.
London, E.C.4.
FOUR YEARS, SO FAR.
At this date quarter of a century back
the Germans had had their blackest day
of the war —August B—and were nearing
collapse. A visible weakening in their
morale was heartening the troops who
for the four years had found them stub-
born, determined and (not so long before)
nearly victorious fighters. As the Ger-
man army retreated, the home-front
morale collapsed. Within the next two
months the rot spread to the German
Navy. By the end of October there were
mutinies. By November 4 men were
shooting their officers. On November 10
the Kaiser fled to Holland. Next day
the war was over.
Misled by politicians intent on win-
ning the elections, many in Australia
today fondly imagine that the present
war position almost corresponds with that
of September, 1918. They have been told,
and they believe, that what now remains
can be likened to a football match, with
the Jap as the ball; that “the Battle of
Australia has been won.” Perhaps now
that the purpose of this sorry twaddle
has been served, it might presently be
seasonable to let out —gently, to cushion
the shock —that through some inadver-
tency the chilly fact that this is not Sep-
tember, 1918, but September, 1943, had
somehow been overlooked in the late
orgy of babble and blither.
As the gloomiest pessimist knows, this
past year has seen the position of the
Allied Nations improve to an extent
which —with no disagreements and no
backslidings anywhere—presages ultimate
victory as certainly as anything in war
can be called certain. It has seen this
fighting combination’s armed and pro-
ductive strength mount up to already
colossal heights, and still mounting. It
has seen the initiative wrested from the
Axis on the land, in the air and at sea.
It has seen the great triumphs of British
fighting quality and military genius; the
conquering advances of combined Anglo-
American troops, air arms and navies in
North Africa and on ; the final tearing
of the Italian empire to tatters, and the
spread of panic, debacle, collapse in this
least of the Axis Powers.
On that front of the global war this
year has made 1939 and the dark years
since seem an almost incredible chapter
of remotely distant history. Less than a
year ago the Germans were massing their
forces to swarm down on Alexandria,
overrun Egypt, take the Suez Canal, con-
quer the whole Middle East and lock
the Mediterranean. In the first year of
this latter-day Dark Age they had spread
as a plague of steel and fire over 12
European countries. Britain alone of
the threatened stood fast; suffered, en-
dured and survived. When, at the end
of eight months, the Belgians, at their
King’s direction, surrendered and the
Germans poured through, the British
High Command estimated that not more
than 30,000 of the British expeditionary
force falling back on the Channel ports
could escape. After Dunkirk, 365,000
British and French soldiers had been
carried to England, though with all their
guns and fighting equipment lost. Behind
the old defensive moat Britain stood de-
fended by only a single armed division.
Why Hitler did not invade, history will
one day unravel. He waited 65 days—
the Dunkirk evacuation was completed
on June 4—and then, on another August
8, launched the air Battle of Britain
which, while it lasted, visited on the
British the fearful destruction and fright-
ful casualties for which the Germans
have since paid in destruction and casual-
ties to their cities and people far more
fearful and frightful. But the testing
which the British then went through was
incomparably more severe than had ever
been imposed on any nation up to that
time. It was not to be measured only by
the destruction wrought and the casual-
ties inflicted. The greatness of it was
that Britain was then standing alone;
not only that, but defenceless, except for
the gallant lads in the Spitfires and Hur-
ricanes and the now little more than a
division of armed troops —lamentably
armed, too, by the German standard.
By the time the Luftwaffe was driven
from the British skies, decisively beaten
by better fighting quality, even the
trumpeters of British decline were tem-
porarily silenced. Only temporarily.
They had their opportunities again in the
disasters of Greece and Crete and the re-
verses of Libya, and once more when
the war widened out and the Japs came
swarming into the Philippines, Malaya,
Burma, Borneo, Papua, the Solomons,
the Aleutians ; when Singapore fell, with
the worst disaster Australians had suf-
fered ; and bombs rained on Darwin and
Broome ; and Australia, like Britain after
Dunkirk, looked wide open to invasion.
These were the dark days, and the
days when the squealers and snivellers
were loud in the land. Without any ques-
tion we have come a long way since then,
in the last 12 months of these four years
of war. As on the other side of the
globe, the initiative has been definitely
taken over. In Papua, in the Solomons,
in the Aleutians, in the Coral Sea and
Midway and Bismarck battles, the myth
of Jap invincibility has been riddled.
Under the fighting leadership of General
Mac Arthur, of Admiral Halsey, of
General Blarney and others, it has been
demonstrated conclusively that the Japs
can be outfought and that they will,
eventually, be beaten back and broken.
All this considered, and along with it
the almost fantastically huge massing of
British and American productive strength
—not overlooking that of Australia,
Canada, India, New Zealand, South
Africa—with fighting quality all round
well proved to be as splendid as ever,
there can be no longer any question about
the ultimate outcome. What is question-
able is that victory is within close and
easy reach —the late Australian election-
eering bragging of a war already won
can, of course, be dismissed as a mere
mess of balderdash cooked up for an
occasion.
As no one but its most bemused dupes
needs reminding, the hot air of that smug
cooking contrasted strangely with the
panic and jitters in the same singular
cookhouse a bare three months earlier.
In the meantime the Americans have
fought and manoeuvred the Japs out of
the Aleutians, another island or so has
been taken from the Japs in the Solo-
mons, another square yard or two in
New Guinea. As well, the Japs have
suffered a serious air defeat. This is the
sum total.
At the other end of this global war —-
which everywhere has been given a turn
favorable to the Allied side —the Ger-
mans still hold and control the 1,160,000
square miles they overran and the
188.000. people they forced into their
yoke. As for this nearer front, the Japs
overran more than 1,500,000 square
miles, holding a population of more than
140.000. and only those ffew dots of
it all have been taken back. “Japan,”
Madame Chiang Kai-shek told members
of the U.S. Congress last February, “in
her occupied areas has greater resources
at her command than Germany.” It is
true, also, that as yet Japan has had only
one (very slight) taste of the devastating
bombing under which Germany has not
collapsed.
“The biggest battles of this war,” said
U.S. Director of War Mobilisation James
Byrnes only the other day, “lie ahead of
us, not behind us.” For good measure
he added: “That is President Roosevelt’s
view and he authorised me to say so.”
The enemy has been using less than half of
his combat divisions, while the Allies have
been using nearly three-quarters of theirs.
Even when U.S. mobilisation is complete,
the Axis will still have as many divisions
as the Allies in Europe. The roads to
Berlin and Tokyo will be long, hard and
bloody. It is by no means clear that we
are today as near to winning the war as the
Axis was in the summer of 1940.
Since the war-is-won balderdash started
to pour over the Australian pre-election
landscape, Mr. Eden, in England, and
U.S. Navy Secretary Knox have also
warned their nations that there is still
a job ahead that will tax fighting quality,
resolution and tenacity to the utmost.
Referring to Japan, Mr. Eden said: “We
in this country have no illusions about
the magnitude of the task involved.”
Secretary Knox commented: “Now we
can be confident of victory, though it
may be costly and postponed.” Secretary
Knox extended the “postponed” part of
it to “three to four years.”
There may be ground for believing, and
certainly there is cause for hoping, that
it may not be so long as all that. But
there is no ground whatever for accepting
or for alleging that it is now already as
good as won: “All over, boys, bar the
shouting!” All that can be said with cer-
tainty as the fifth year of it opens is that,
eventually, the mounting Allied armed
might will bring victory, though not with-
out rivers of blood, sweat and tears still
to run.
Mother Knows Best.
Newspaper post-mortems on the elections
stressed the merits of the winners, par-
licularly Mr. Curtin, and the shortcom-
ings of the losers, particularly Mr.
Fadden and were on the whole unillumi-
nating and unfair.
“Labor owes its victory to better party
organisation, to better party leadership
and to the faults of its opponcnis,” said
Melbourne “Flerald.” The “Argus” saw
in Mr. Curtin “a successful war-time
leader” who had “achieved the greatest
triumph of his career,” and flayed the
Opposition for its “lack of political
idealism” (the party which put Mr. Ward,
Mr. Lazzarini and Mr. Don Cameron in
the Ministry is, of course, crammed with
that commodity) and for the “unworthy
manoeuvring at a time of national peril”
which had ended in its “presenting a sorry
spectacle of disunity.”
“S. M. Herald” hailed the Labor victory
as a reward for “national services faith-
fully and competently rendered,” in parti-
cular by Mr. Curtin, “whose personality
and prestige counted for so much,” and
his “three brilliant lieutenants.” Turning
a scornful gaze on its former friends, it
enlarged on “Mr. Fadden’s deficiencies
of leadership,” the “weaknesses of the
Opposition,” exhibited in the “serious
cleavage in its ranks.... these continuing
discordancies,” and “the deep heart-
searchings and immediate attention to
the work of reconstruction which will be
essential sequels.” And to the “Daily
Telegraph,” which supported the Opposi-
tion this time instead of splitting its vote
by running “outstanding candidates,” as
it did in 1940, and as the “Herald” did at
both elections, “the one clear lesson” is
that “the people are tired of the old
U.A.P. and U.C.P., their policy, leader-
ship and personnel.”
All very superficial and ungenerous.
It is true that Mr. Fadden has shown by
sorry examples that he is not cut out for
leadership, but who thrust leadership on
him? Who damned Mr, Menzies without
giving him even faint praise? Who en-
couraged Mr. McCall and other U.A.P.
snipers to make his position insupport-
able? Who in signed articles and Can-
berra paragraphs puffed Labor Ministers
and members and sneered at Opposition
members who had the courage 'of their
convictions, especially Senators who re-
fused to be rubber-stamps for the Labor
Government and the South Australian
Ms.H.R., the “hillbillies”? Who but the
gentlemen of the press, particularly “S.
M. Herald” and the “Daily Telegraph.”
For 30 years all the non-Labor
leaders, from Mr. Deakin to Mr. Bruce,
received a steady and powerful daily-
press support, based on principles held
in common. In Sydney especially, Mr.
Menzies and Mr. Fadden have found
the newspapers so capricious and erratic
that open enmity in this quarter would
have been less harmful to them.
Disputes like that of Mr. Fadden and
Mr. Menzies on the income-tax issue
and organisational blunders such as those
committed by the U.A.P. —from the
purely party point of view the stupidest
was not the putting of Mr. Arkins and
Mr. Dein on the N.S.W. Senate ticket
but the refusal of U.A.P. first preferences
to Mr. Lang and Mr. Blackburn —are
handicaps to a party going to the coun-
try, but they never decide an election.
Labor has done the like without losing.
Its N.S.W. executive quashed the party’s
Senate pre-selection ballot on the ground
of “irregularities,” and gave the No. 3
nomination to the former I.W.W. man
Donald Grant, discarding men who had
beaten him in the ballot and had unblem-
ished records. Yet the three it chose,
at the apparent risk of splitting the party
vote, are going to win with unprecedented
majorities. Arid in 1940 there were three
N. Labor parties which attacked each
other ferociously; Mr. Curtin even re-
ferred to Mr. Beasley’s group as “a ‘scab’
party.” Yet between them the Curtins
and the Beasleys won the three Senate
seats and 16 of the 28 in the House, and
in a trifle over 12 months, having mean-
while buried the hatchet, they were in
the same Ministry.
It was reserved for a lady candidate
who lost her £25 to discover and pro-
claim the central truth to which Great
Dailies were blind:
Mrs. Glencross (Martin): Thousands of
soldiers’ mothers voted Labor because they
feared that an Opposition victory would
mean that their sons would be sent to fight
outside Australia. Women also feared that
the Opposition, if returned, might reduce
the high war-time wages to which they have
become accustomed.
Endowed with logic as well as femi-
nine intuition, and with opportunities of
studying the workings of the feminine
mind in a new environment denied to
editors and leader-writers, the president
of the N.S.W. Housewives’ Association is
unassailably right. Many thousands of
women “in munitions” and many thou-
sands of wives of men working in war
factories, to a large extent newcomers
from country and white-collar suburban
electorates, are getting more money than
they ever handled before ; and “nobody
shoots Santa Claus” or is inquisitive as to
how Santa gets his gifts or whether he
will keep on bringing them. By choice or
necessity these people have all become
trade-unionists, and as such have come
under the influence of union secretaries
and shop stewards intent on regimenting
their vote. In this, whatever methods were
employed, threats or appeals to the feel-
ing for mateship or both, the union secre-
taries and shop stewards were very obvi-
ously successful.
But of itself this accession of strength
could not possibly have placed the Labor
party in the commanding position in
which it now finds itself, ft was the
other factor, the votes of mothers, sisters
wives, fathers, brothers and sons of men
on home service, and of many of the men
themselves, that gave Labor members
their huge majorities and shattered or
wiped out Opposition majorities in elec-
torates'Where, as a general rule, the Labor
candidate hasn’t a ghost of a chance. To
attribute this tremendous swing, in nearly
all its features reminiscent of what
happened at the 1916 conscription refer-
endum, to the result of a weighed and
measured comparison of Mr. Curtin and
his organisation with Mr. Fadden and
his organisation is merely stupid.
If the electors had been carried away
by the surpassing merits of Mr. Curtin
and Curtin Labor, the Victorians among
them should have been carried away at
the State election on June 12. In that
election campaign they heard a great deal
from Mr. Curtin’s Victorian Ministers
about Mr. Curtin’s qualities of leadership
and the wonders performed by his Ad-
ministration. They were urged to hitch
their wagon to the Curtin star. There
are some good men in the State Labor
party, men decidedly superior to two of
Mr. Curtin’s Victorian Ministers, and the
party contested 40 of the 65 seats—twice
as many as the U.A.P., and eight more
than the Country party. Yet when the
numbers went up it had only 22 seats,
having gained two and lost one, whereas
the Country party had 26 and the U.A.P.
13. Certainly the electoral boundaries
were unfavorable to it, but, as Mr. Cain
admitted, they were more unfavorable
to the U.A.P. 1
Six weeks after this pronounced Labor
defeat, Mr. Curtin delivered his policy
speech. In that he asserted that his Gov-
ernment had inherited “a heavy burden”
from its predecessors, who, “blind to the
dangers in the Pacific,” had “left Aus-
tralia very much unprepared.” He claimed
for his Government “the development of
a plan to prevent this great country from
being doomed” and of “a war effort
which has played such a large part in
removing the invasion threat.” For
“twenty months,” he said, “the Labor
Government has kept you safe, whereas
a Government from the U.A.P. and C.P.
would make the same terrible mistake it
made before Japan came into the war.”
The Labor Government is the victory
Government. It won security for you; it
will bring victory to this fair land. Our
country has withstood the direst trials; it
has lived through its darkest hours; it is
now confronting the dawn of a victorious
and a better day.
Going into details of the war effort
which “has kept you safe,” he said there
were 820,000 men and 40,000 women in
the fighting services and 144,000 men in
armament factories, the total for the ser-
vices and “war production” being
1,172,000. And this was his plan for the
ground forces:
The army will be maintained at the
strength necessary for providing for an
army corps for defensive operations, in
accordance with the plans of the Com-
mander-in-Chief South-west Pacific; and
adequate forces for the defence of Aus-
tralia and New Guinea and for relief of
units outside the mainland. Provided,
however, that the strength will be governed
by available man-power, capacity to main-
tain the wastage of tropical warfare and
co-ordination with other man-power re-
quirements.
A field force of three divisions out of an
adult population 1,100,000 greater than
that of Scotland! Joining issue on this
adaptation of Labor “principles,” and
being committed to one combatant army
with equality of risk (so were the news-
paper critics, but the latter conveniently
forget it), the Opposition-leaders, to their
astonishment and indignation, encountered
hostile meetings even when organised
hooliganism had apparently ceased.
Trooper Denis Warner, the U.A.P.
candidate for Franklin, was indignant on
another score. In words which stirred
Mr. Curtin out of his complacency,
Trooper Warner declared that “the army
corps would consist of the Sixth, Seventh
and Ninth Divisions, which fought in
Libya, in Greece and Crete, in Tobruk
and Syria, at El Alamein and in the
jungles of New Guinea,” and that "you,
John Curtin, are going to work these
three divisions of original volunteers until
there are none left.” He entreated the
fathers and mothers of the surviving
veterans to listen to him, and, since his
speech was broadcast many times, no
doubt they did. But so also, it is now
evident, did many more fathers and
mothers who had no overpowering in-
terest in the Sixth, Seventh and Ninth,
being concerned rather with the Govern-
ment which told them it had "kept you
safe” and conducted “you” to “the dawn
of a victorious and a better day,” and to
vote for which would prevent Fadden and
Menzies from sending Willie and Danny
to horrible tropical islands, rotten wffh
malaria and scrub typhus, to fight the Japs.
Among the effects of this solicitude foi
Willie and Danny, as expressed in polling
booths, were the prodigious majorities


polled by anti-conscription Ministers and
members. Senator Cameron, who had
Mr. Curtin on the carpet when tl-2 Vic-
torian A.L.P. executive rejected his
Militia Hopscotch Bill, will be re-elected,
without recourse to preferences, with at
least half a million votes. So will Senator
Amour with possibly three-quarters of a
million. Minister Holloway, Mr. Ward
and Mr. Brennan, all of whom opposed
the Militia Hopscotch Bill without vot-
ing against it, had amazing majorities.
Except in one instance, Communists and
fellow-travellers made a miserable show-
ing, but this may have been because of
the conviction, which Mr. Lang exerted
himself to establish, that in their latest
twist they had become as conscriptionist
as Major Cameron. Mr. Lang himself,
standing as an anti-conscriptionist, is
leading the Labor member for Reid by
several thousand votes, and may go in.
If he does, and if Mr. Ward and Senator
Cameron are excluded from the Ministry,
Mr. Curtin may wake up some morning
and find another breakaway group with
a “keep-the-boys-in-Australia” slogan in
action.
Meanwhile, though counting of votes
proceeds and some positions may be re-
versed, it is clear that Australia is to have
a caucus-controlled House, Senate and
Government for better or worse. And,
not reckoning the V.D.C., it is to continue
to have two armies like those of General
de Gaulle and General Giraud, except
that the De Gaullists and the Giraudists
are (or were in Tunisia) combatant forces.
The Americans made it very obvious
that they did not care for this arrange-
ment, but it is confidently expected that
they will raise no objection in Australia’s
case, and will support Australia’s case
at the peace conference, fiscal policy,
white-Australia doctrine and the rest,
even if, as seems probable, a Republican
President and Congress issue from the
elections next year.
PLAIN ENGLISH
"It Must Not Foil."
By The Bulletin’s Oldest Inhabitant:
Flushed with pride at his achievement in the
constituencies, Mr. Curtin has invited subscrip-
lions to a war loan of £125,000,000 on the now-
familiar terms and conditions. He asks for
750,000 subscribers, and seeing that far more
than twice the number of civilians voted for
his party, and that their obligations cannot be
held to have ended there, it is no unreasonable
request. But since the number of subscribers to
war loans has never exceeded 456,000, new in-
ducements or methods of persuasion may be
required.
The loan is to open on October 5 and close
on November 9. A fair and just preliminary
and one that would be certain to bear fruit
would be an announcement of the immediate
placing of income tax on a pay-as-you-earn
basis. Hitherto most of the individual sub-
scriptions to war loans have come from the
middle-income class. Many of these people
are in the position that they can subscribe no
longer without being unjust to their families.
Their taxes have soared as the purchasing power
of their incomes (mostly stationary) has fallen,
and not a few have had to eat into their savings
to meet these taxes. Death in the latter part
of a financial year, which would mean that
taxes for two years would have to be found
out of their estates, would inflict real, perhaps
crushing, hardship on their families. And, as
any doctor with a large practice could tell Mr.
Curtin, war-time mortality among these people,
especially such as are past 50, is rather high.
While this position exists honest and thrifty
people in the middle-income class will put
their family interests before the interests of the
country, however much the conflict of loyalties
may distress them. The same applies to honest
and thrifty wage-earners, who have to provide
against the contingency, even more worrying in
their case, of tax on a high income being de-
manded from a greatly reduced income or,
being dead, a small estate. Until this situation
is rectified by the introduction of the pay-as-
you-earn principle, there will be so much less for
war loans from people who really want to
subscribe. As for the careless and reluctant,
the contention (doubtfully legal) that the tax-
payer is paying this year a tax on last year’s
earnings gives them an excuse not to sub-
scribe. Unless pay-as-you-earn is instituted
promptly, many of them will find themselves in
a dreadful mess when the war is over, and the
job of collecting income tax from those with no
seizable property will become hopeless.
Other measures which suggest themselves
are compulsory investment of current State
Government surpluses in war loan, and strict
regulation of the Government and Government-
controlled lotteries which infest four States and
compete with one another for customers in the
other two. Into at least one of the Govern-
ment lottery joints more money is pouring
than ever before. This form of competition is
noxious enough at any time; it is scandalous
that they should all be competing with the
Commonwealth Government when a war loan
is on the market. For at least a month before
and at least a month afterwards lotteries
should be prohibited, or it should be required
that all prizes be paid in war-loan bonds.
I, Godfrey Blynden ....
In a dispatch from Quebec published in
Sydney “Daily Telegraph,” Godfrey Blun-
den had some references to one of Aus-
tralia’s greatest soldiers: —
I asked Bracken [the British Minister for
Information] why Australia had not been
invited to the conference, seeing that it
dealt with the Pacific problem. Bracken
replied that Churchill had sent for Sir
William Glasgow to inform him of decisions
at today’s meeting. 1 pointed out that
Sir William was hardly a suitable repre-
sentative for Australia on war matters.
Not quite in that class, but ignorant
enough, an A.B.C. announcement also
made reference to Glasgow at Quebec:
He was in the Senate for several years.
He fought in both the Boer War and the
Great War and won the D.S.O.
The man who “was in the Senate for
several years” was, first, Minister for
Home and Territories in the Bruce-Page
Government, then Minister for Defence,
1927-29, two years in which Australian
defence preparations flourished. As De-
fence Minister, Glasgow was directly
responsible for the raising of Australia's
military forces to their greatest strength
since immediately after the last war.
When Glasgow went out with the Gov-
ernment, he handed over a splendidly
organised military establishment control-
ling close on 50,000 good troops, their
numbers on the increase, and everywhere
among them a measure of enthusiasm un-
matched at any other period between the
wars —to a Labor Government which
wrecked the whole establishment.
But he was praised by Dr. C. E. W.
Bean in terms as high as any to be found
in the Official History;
Many of the leaders who by 1918 had
won their way to command Australian
brigades and divisions —Monash, Elliott,
Brand, Gellibrand, Rosenthal, Smith and
Glasgow—were men of powerful person-
ality ; but Glasgow was the, strongest of
them all.
When Glasgow spoke,
his good sense, force of will and honesty
of purpose carried their way in councils of
war as they did years afterwards in the
Federal Cabinet.
These and many other like references
can be found in the chapters of the
Official History dealing with Villers-
Bretonneux, where
without Glasgow’s stamina in holding to his
point against the pressure of a hierarchy of
commanders, the effort would have been
futile.
Stili, after all, it is not surprising that
this great Australian soldier should be as
good as unknown to the Boys of the
A.B.C. and worse than unknown to the
Boys of the Blunden Breed.
Trees and Soil.
It was here suggested (B. 25 /8 / ’43) that
Australia sorely needs a national soil-
conservation scheme. As part of it there
should be a national forestry plan, for
forestry and erosion-qontrol go together,
and Australia is losing her forests almost
as rapidly as she is losing the best of her
soil.
Figures placed before the Rural Re-
construction Commission by the chair-
man of Victoria’s Forests Commission
were startling. Mr. Galbraith said the
1939 fires and war demands since then
had so reduced prospective yields from
Victorian forests that it would take 50
years for them to recover.
Timber killed in the fires was esti-
mated at 2,070,000,000 super feet, of
which 700,000,000 super feet had been
salvaged. But the trees that made that
two billion-odd super feet are gone,
and the nation will pay for their loss
in eroded land and affected watersheds.
To build up and maintain adequate fire
protection would cost £575,000 a year for
the first five years, £380,000 a year for
the second five years and from then on
£300,000 a year.
This would provide lookout towers and
observation points for fire-detection, tele-
phone and radio communication, roads
to enable vehicles and men to get to
threatened points quickly and training of
fire-fighters. Mr. Galbraith didn’t say
so, but obviously more money would be
required to plant trees and extend the
forest areas.
It may be argued that in the post-war
era industry will replace timber products
with plastics and steel. On the face of
things, it will have no choice. But from
the erosion point of view alone it is neces-
sary that the nation’s existing timber be
preserved and expanded. That is a job
calling for national, not State, attention.
KNOCKOUT SCENE FROM THE SENSATIONAL FILM SERIAL “ALONE WE DID IT.”


ƒ
f
Let’s Coll a Halt on Thoughtless Buying
If the way you buy gives comfort to the Axis, it’s time to call a halt. Buy only
when you must and buy only longer-lasting things . . , for long, hard service. In
this wav, you help Australia’s war effort.
BATTERIES
Still Keep Going When the Rest Have Stopped
Let this be Your
Wartime Slogan.
POLITICAL POINTS
Election reporters were premature in
awarding so many seats to the Ministry.
They even persuaded Joe Abbott (New
England) and Dame Enid Lyons (Darwin)
to confess defeat. .Actually, last week’s
counting was favorable to both and also
to Archie Cameron (Barker), Hughes
(North Sydney), Page (Cowper), Fadden
(Darling Downs) —each was numbered
among the doomed Tom Collins
(Hume), Harrison (Wentworth) and
Marwick (Swan). With a fair share
of the services vote, most of these will
get in, and Macarthur Onslow (Eden-
Monaro), Marr (Parkes), Grenfell Price
(Boothby), Duncan-Hughes (Wakefield),
and Nairn (Perth) are still possibles. But
Labor is sure of at least 18 Senate seats,
and should win the nineteenth, though
whether it will go to Lamp, Darcey or
the Rev. Carruthers is doubtful.
Eighteen of the 19 Ministers and 13 of
the rank and file will go back with in-
creased majorities, some of them im-
mense. The other four are the strangely
unforgiven Maurice Blackburn (he leads
in Bourke, but may lose on U.A.P. prefer-
ences), Morgan (still well behind Lang in
Reid, though the Big Fellow concedes
that the position remains doubtful), Forde
and Baker. Adermann, Baker’s opponent
in Maranoa, wiped out the early Labor
lead, as Jimmy Hunter used to dc regu-
larly, and was 1419 ahead on Monday,
though the first batch of service and
Allied Works Council votes counted
favored Baker—lsls to 1008. Forde’s
1940 majority of 9881 in Capricornia
has been reduced by C. P. Ward to 4750.
Wards have a way of making Canberra
dignitaries feel uncomfortable.
Unless soldiers’ votes in Capricornia,
as distinguished from those of air-force
men, women in uniform and the Theo-
dore-Packer workers, are preponderantly
for Forde, it will be difficult for Curtin
to keep him in the Army port-
folio. Perhaps Dedman or Rosevear
will get it and Forde will go back to
Trade and Customs, Dick Keane becom-
ing leader of the Senate and Minister of
the Interior and Collings President of the
Senate. Rosevear shaped well as Speaker
in his few days in the Chair, his smart
and pleasant handling of bores remind-
ing old hands of Willie Watt, but he no
doubt has Ministerial aspirations.
After Ward “squibbed it” at the royal
commission, Baker was the only member
who took the Brisbane Lie seriously. He
drew a Brisbane Line map and tried to
get it inserted in “Hansard,” and he was
supposed to have had a hand in the con-
cocting of a dreadful bit of election dog-
gerel, “We’ll Hang Fadden and Menzies
on the Brisbane Line.” By the irony of
events, he looks like being the only Cur-
tinite whom Canberra will see no more,
for, defeated, he is too old to come back.
Coles may get in for Henty this time,
though, with the bulk of the services
vote to come, he was 7532 short of
an absolute majority, but never again.
He polled a little better than the
Labor men in neighboring Balaclava
and Fawkner (and in Fawkner Labor
put up the always - defeated Tom
Jude), so his personal vote, of which so
much had been said, is not worth talking
about. If he still stocks running shoes
he had better lay in a pair for present or
future use.
Ballot-papers from A.W.C. camps are
included in the services votes. The piles
counted first —only portion of the whole
—swelled the Labor leads, particularly
those of Curtin, who scored 4772 to
1508, and Dr. Evatt (1993 to 487); Forde
(1595 to 888) didn’t fare nearly so well.
In the contest of parties, Menzies got
1020 to 723, Hughes 1160 to 1031,
Stewart 998 to 845, Jolly 1821 to 1819,
Grenfell Price 1381 to 1196 and Archie
Cameron 1022 to 879 ; but in no case was
there an absolute majority of camp votes
for an Oppositionist. There are, how-
ever, hundreds of thousands to come.
Gordon Brown, the Labor Chairman
of Committees, heads the Queensland
poll for the Senate, and when a Brisbane
paper discovered that he had an absolute
majority of 50,836 over the other ten
candidates it said if he maintained it he
would “create a position unique in Senate
history in Queensland.” Tom Givens
created” it in 1925. Givens got 210,400
votes and the other candidates (there
were five) 173,205, so his preferences
elected his team-mates, Thomas Glasgow
and William Thompson, without any
others having to be examined.
Congratulations to the Soviet envoy on
the magnificent Rolls-Royce in which he
descended upon a dazzled Sydney. Com-
plete with a hammer-and-sickle flag on
the bonnet, it made a stunning “Daily
Mirror” photograph, which may possibly
induce the Labor Governments to pro-
vide the State Governor and the Gover-
nor-General with gorgeous caravans that
burn something less than a gallon to the
ten miles. They are seen about in very
ordinary-looking Morrises.
It didn’t occur to Lang, Ward or any
other anti-conscriptionist to include “The
Blood Vote” ballad in his election
propaganda. Attributed to one W. R.
Winspear and embellished with a Claude
JACK LANG RIDES AGAIN.
(But preferences may unship him.)
Marquet drawing showing drops of blood
dripping from the title (actually it was
written by the late E. J. Dempsey, of the
late “Evening News”), “The Plood Vote”
ballad had a great vogue among Mothers
in October, 1916, the effect of two stanzas
being tremendous:
“Why is your face so white, Mother?
Why do you choke for breath?”
“Oh, I have dreamt in the night, my son,
That I doomed a man to death.
“They gave me the ballot paper,
The grim death-warrant of doom,
And I smugly sentenced the man to death
In that dreadful little room.”
However, the feelings to which “The
Plood Vote” ballad appealed were in full
operation among Mothers on August 21,
1943.
On June 12 two of the ablest men in
the Victorian Assembly were defeated be-
cause of their religion and racial origins.
Nothing like that happened at the Com-
monwealth elections. If there were elec-
tors who were swayed by these detest-
able prejudices they were swamped by
the safety-for-Alfie vote.
It is always safe to wager that Informal
will be third or fourth when counting of
N.S.W. Senate primaries is completed.
Informal ran fourth in 1931 with 127,794
votes, fourth again in 1934 with 193,612,
third in 1937 with 136,841, fourth in 1940
with 183,015, and when great masses of
ballot-papers remained to be examined
was third in 1943 with 139,391 and
running strong for 200,000, with a cer-
tain majority over the total cast for
seventeen candidates. It is the proud
boast of N.S.W. politicians that “our
education system is the finest in the
world.”
Communists are having a crack at the
Victorian municipal elections, a bit of a
come-down from the Federal field, where
one (1) of them saved his deposit.
Stated that “some concern” is felt in
Victorian Labor circles over the muni-
cipal matter. If some of these Labor
people knew Corns, for what they are
they’d feel more than “some” concern.
Another war-time regulation took the
knock from the N.S.W. Full Court last
week, a minor one having to do with
the storing of flock used in bedding.
Great or small, the casualties among
regulations have become almost epidemic.
Curtin in his policy speech:
The army will be maintained at the
strength necessary for providing an army
corps for offensive operations, in accord-
ance with the plans of the Commander-in-
Chief South-west Pacific.
Whatever Australia’s friends abroad may
think of them, those words won the elec-
tion for the Curtin party.
Melbourne “Age” sums up:
Fqr the Opposition parties the event may
not be without its lessons, some of which
are rooted in the anomaly by which the
ablest leader within the parties’ ranks came
before the electors as a private back-bench
member.
The “lessons” should also be learned by
Sydney newspapers, which not only
hissed at Menzies for three years, mean-
while praising selected Labor Ministers
to the skies, but sooled on the anti-
Menzies McCall, now numbered among
the licked. They are blaming everyone
and everything but themselves.
Fadden, as he has recalled, “arrived
on the 13th day of April, began work on
the 13th day of January,” was No. 13 at
his first accountancy examination and
became the 13 th Prime Minister. And
perhaps astrologers (one, a lady, was a
candidate) would stretch the thing
further, Artie’s Government was just
three times thirteen days in office and he
got his issue as a party leader on the
21st day of the eighth month —eight
from 21 leaves 13.
The P.M.’s last words in the last Par-
liament were that he found it “incredible
that any man who is a prisoner of war
and who represents the Northern Terri-
tory, where it can be said that at present
there is no effective civil population,
should be opposed by any decent man.”
The incredible happened. Six opponents
were forthcoming, including two who had
changed their minds before nominations
closed in 1940, when Plain, the p.o.w.
sitting member, was here to fight his own
battle. At the week-end young Nelson
had polled 472 Labor votes and Murray,
nominated by the railway locomotive
engineers at the Katherine, had 394
against Plain’s 384. With 1404 votes
cast, it was estimated that there were only
another 800 to be counted. If that is so,
it means that only a bit over 50 per cent,
of the 4255 voters on the rolls polled.
As soon as the Victorian Parliament
resumed business Dunstan struck trouble
with the teachers, and he was obliged to
grant them some concessions in his
Budget. And as soon as it was evident
that Federal Labor would have sweeping
majorities, State Labor took up a mili-
tant attitude on the redistribution-of-
seats issue, and there was talk of offering
portfolios to the U.A.P. Hollway says
he is not negotiating.
Among trade-unionists with Commu-
nist bosses it has obviously been noted
with anger and contempt that the Corns,
spent a mint of money on the elections
and that “party” leaders Sharkey and
Miles were among the 15 who lost their
deposits, as also did fellow-traveller
Hughes, boss of the Clerks. One of the
first-fruits is a fierce revolt of the Bal-
main branch of the Ironworkers against
.the Thornton gang. Ordered by the
Thornton gang to accept humbly the
merger with the Munition Workers to
which the Commonwealth Arbitration
Court’s Stewart has refused registration,
together with the freezing of their funds,
the dismissal of their local executive and
the cancellation of a protest meeting, the
Balmainers held the meeting, re-elected
the executive and refused a hearing to
Thornton’s offsider McHenry. And they
made wounding remarks about Thornton
and his Second Front.
It was five weeks last Sunday since
Mussolini’s dictatorship ended. During
the five weeks, though Rome Radio was
busy every day and the wires ran hot
with accounts of bombings, strikes, peace
demonstrations and Badoglio Govern-
ment doings, and though press and radio
knew everything that went on in Russia,
Germany, Scandinavia, Western Europe,
Turkey, Irak, Iran, Irup and Jacob, not
a word leaked out as to Musso.’s where-
abouts and condition —whether he had
stayed or skedaddled, was alive or dead,
bond or free. It doesn’t say much for the
omniscience of famous correspondents.
Sydney “D.T.” scornfully recommends
“the Conservative parties” to get “a
revised policy and new leadership” as, it
says, “the Conservative parties” have done
in Canada. As if the Liberals didn’t try
this with Hughes in 1917, and the Nation-
alists with Lyons in 1931.
McCall, of Martin, one of the Sydney
U.A.P. pets who destroyed the Menzies
Government from within, has had the
sickening experience of seeing Menzies
returned with the greatest individual
majority on his side while McCall him-
self has gone out on his ear. Three
McCall communiques to newspapers
which extolled but could not save him:
July 29, 1941: I will support any leader
of any Government likely to prosecute the
war effort with vigor.
August 24, 1941: I have withdrawn
previous statements that I will give con-
ditional support to the Labor Government.
August 24. 1943: I shall continue my
association with the Martin electorate,
where I have made many staunch friends
I entered Parliament when I was very
young, only 25, and I could remain in the
political wilderness for 10 years and return
to Parliament at an age when most men
enter it.
But who is going to ask him to return?
According to the acting Chief Super-
intendent of N.S.W. Railways, farmers
have been “man-powered” into his depart-
ment to make up staff shortages in the
traffic branch. Combing the already de-
nuded farming districts for railwaymen
when there are tons of hulking profes-
sional footballers about!
Another Quebec dispatch to Sydney
“D.T.” from its Roving Reporter, Mr.
Godfrey Blunden:
One American observer here told me he
believed Roosevelt is seeking the Catholic
vote, which dominates the aristocratic
Southern States. That such considerations
should be allowed to interfere with the
amity of the three great nations engaged in
the war against Fascism is obviously a
matter of the deepest concern.
It needn’t be, nor would the Roving
Reporter have been sold by the “Ameri-
can observer” had he taken the trouble
to look up an authoritative publica-
tion like the Statesmans Year-Book. In
all the southern States, Protestants, chiefly
Baptists and Methodists, are in an im-
mense majority.


SYDNEY.
BUY
WAR SAVINGS CERTIFICATES
and
NATIONAL SAVINGS BONDS
Space by
MAKERS OF THE ECONOMY SAUCE
PERSONAL ITEMS
A. J. McLachlan, former P.M.G. and
twice Acting Attorney-General, has been
winding up his affairs in S.A., where the
L.C.L. dropped him from its Senate
nominations—as it transpired, luckily for
McLachlan. He’s particularly proud
of the steady rise of the lawyers
who studied under him. As a partner to
C. C. Kingston long ago, he had in the
office Napier, now Chief Justice of S.A.,
and Richards, now Judge. Both Napier
and Reed (the latest appointment to the
Bench) became in time Mac’s own part-
ners. Further, Muirhead, P.M., and Lem-
priere Abbott, the latest K.C., were both
in the office of McLachlan and Napier.
A.J. has bought the Septimus Miller place
outside Melbourne, and is likely to be
heard of further as a good Victorian.
“Nakhoda”: Although the late William
Irvine may have earned the label “Ice-
berg” for his austere demeanor in pub-
lic, he kept a good cellar. A bunch of
fire-fighters discovered that fact when
his country home between Eltham and
Warrandyte was destroyed in the bush-
fire that wiped out the latter township.
Blackened, parched and exhausted, the
thankful heroes concluded that the absent
owner would have no objection, so they
took a few armfuls of old hock, claret,
champagne and chablis down to the river
bank, and were sitting preparing to resus-
citate their jaded energies when there was
a familiar crackle and they saw the fire
making for them from a new direction.
Hastily throwing the expensive liquor
into the river, they followed and watched
a wall of flame which leapt across the
water and raced over the opposite bank
towards Warrandyte. Neighboring small
boys still dive for the sunken treasure
every summer.
A gallant South Australian’. —
In “S. M. Herald” last week The Bulletin
found itself being delivered in Burma per the same
means that “Granny’s” young Roderick Mac-
Donald used to get himself delivered into Sicily
—by parachute. The mention was in a tribute
to a gallant South Australian (from Prospect),
Lieut. Duncan Menzies, who lost his life when
with the Wingate force in Burma. At Oxford
as a Rhodes scholar when the war broke out,
Menzies enlisted in the Black Watch and was
in the fiercest of the fighting round about
Tobruk. In one action there his battalion lost
nine officers and 100 men killed and 16 officers
and 200 men wounded; Menzies its only
platoon commander unwounded. “S.M.H.
war correspondent H. A. Standish was told
about Menzies by Major Fergusson, also of
the Black Watch and the Wingate force, Major
Fergusson’s tribute concluding; “Can you
wonder that I want his friends and all Australia
to know the sort of man Duncan Menzies was?
He was intensely Australian, yet also intensely
Scottish. The Scots with our column adored
him, but the Lancashire men and the incredibly
clannish Welshmen, who made up most of my
column, quickly became devoted to him, too,
though he was immensely strict with them.
When our rations were dropped by parachute
the Sydney Bulletin used to be dropped for
him. He was a splendid chap, the most perfect
of friends, and no better soldier evpr took the
field.”
Knight Dalziel Kelly having retired
from the chairmanship of the Australian
Wool Board after seven years in the job,
Douglas T. Boyd takes over. J. P. Abbott
remains vice-chairman.
After holding the position of honorary
general secretary of the Australian
Chemical Institute since it was granted
Royal Charter in 1932, William Ralph
Jewell has retired. A Melbourne Uni.
M.Sc., he specialised in metallurgy at
Sheffield. After the last war he was at
Lithgow for several years, then with
Munition Supply Laboratories, Mel-
bourne. . Later appointed research
chemist in the Victorian Department of
Agriculture, he became director of Vic-
torian State Laboratories in 1932. H. E.
Dadswell is the new secretary.
John Brennan meets a bishop:
Khaki shorts, white shirt, green felt hat; a
gold cross hung from his neck; a large white
towel in his belt to use as a sweat-rag; a cocker
spaniel, Kim, at his heels —Walter H. Baddeley,
Anglican Bishop of Melanesia, is a last-war
lieut.-colonel, D. 5.0., M.C. and bar. He’s been
in the Solomons all through from the Japanese
occupation of Florida and Guadalcanal. Born
in England, he went from Oxford into the
Royal Sussex as a private in 1914. Before
that war ended he commanded a battalion,
had won his three decorations and had been
four times “mentioned.” He went into the
Church in 1921—t0 a curacy in Leeds. In
1932 he was consecrated in Maoriland on his
way to the Solomons. Here he moved the
Mission from Siota, where the cathedral was, to
Purvis Bay at the other end of the beautiful
Utahu Passage—from the waters of the bay the
country bordering the entrance to the Passage
is like that along the lower Hawkesbury, ex-
cept for the occasional palm tops rising above
the trees. The soil here was more suitable for
the vegetables, corn and root crops the bishop
was set on introducing into the natives’ diet.
Came the Pacific war. Mission buildings were
destroyed by bombs and looting. At Siota the
mother-of-pearl inlay in lectern and altar was
prised out; the Mission press at Hautaba, on
Guadalcanal, where native boys had printed
prayer books and hymns in 31 languages, was
completely wrecked. The bishpp and his mis-
sionaries, even the women nurses, stayed on.
The native boys took altarware and relics and
hid them in the hills. About 12 months after
the Jap landings the nurses were finally ordered
to leave, after the foul murder of four Catholic
missionaries on Guadalcanal. Supplies were
short. Shoes were the bishop’s greatest prob-
lem. “I had to take a boy, Walter Vaitahi,
with me on my walks to sew on the soles again
at various halts.” Bishop Baddeley will stay on
till he can bring his wife and two young
children back from Australia. He married her
in 1935, the daughter of Bishop Thomas, for
35 years Bishop of Adelaide.
Dr. Bernard Traugott Zwar, C.8.E.,
F.R.A.C.S., re-elected president of Royal
Melbourne Hospital, has guided the
affairs of that institution through one of
the most difficult periods of its history.
If the war hadn’t happened the hospital
would long since have been shifted holus-
bolus to the vast, new, modernly-equipped
sickbay on the Pig Market site at Park-
ville. The new hospital having been
taken over for military purposes, Zwar
and his colleagues have to do the best
ZWAR, of Royal Melbourne.
with what they have, and wait for better
times. Dr. Zwar was born at Stockwell
(S.A.) and educated at Prince Alfied
College, Adelaide, and Adelaide and
Melbourne Universities. In the last war
he was abroad with the A.I.F. as a medi-
cal major. He was one of the founders
of the College of Surgeons of Australasia
(now the Royal Australasian College),
was Stewart Lecturer in Surgery at Mel-
bourne University (1924-35) and sits on
almost as many boards and committees
connected with the science of healing as
James Barrett does on those connected
with art and music.
The McLartys are an old Westralian
family, some of whom pioneered the
Kimberleys. One of them was with the
first white party to make the crossing
overland from Perth to Adelaide (the
Forrest expedition, 1870). Sixty-five years
later his son. Hector Roy McLarty, made
the same crossing in somewhat less time
H. R. McLARTY .
to take over the A.M.P. managership in
the S.A. capital. He’s a last-war Digger,
with an M.M., won at Messines, where
he was wounded. He soldiered right
through that war, with Gallip. included,
one of the stunts he was mixed up in
there (Lone Pine) inspiring Arthur Adams
to break into verse about it on the Red
Page. Between wars McLarty did a lot
for fellow-Diggers as one of the main-
stays of his old unit’s association in the
West. He’s been 40 years with A.M.P.
When Wing-Commander Clive Cald-
well came back to Australia to help
stonker the Jap his tally was 20 con-
firmed downings, one he helped to down,
six probables and 11 damaged. There
was only one Eyetie in the bag, the rest
all Fritzes. With that score, Caldwell
was easily Australia’s leading air ace,
the next best having 12 confirmed down-
ings. After a brief break Caldwell
headed north, aiming to pass the R.A.F.
Malan’s record ot 32 confirmed down-
ings. His score is now 27-1-.
Australia lost both a fine airman and
one who would have become a topnotch
short-story writer when Flying-Officer
Philip Courtney Mullens, D.F.C., was
killed in New Guinea. The citation for
his decoration stated that he had dis-
played great dash in more than 20 night
intruder bombing strikes against heavily
defended aerodromes in New Guinea,
Holland and occupied France: “He has
constantly operated successfully through-
out the foul flying weather experienced
in a tropical wet season, made even more
difficult by two flights across the Owen
Stanley Ranges for each strike.” On one
of these he went in to bomb enemy air-
craft from low level, and, under heavy
anti-aircraft fire from all sides, withheld
his bombs and made a completely accu-
rate run before releasing, though the hits
scored on his ’plane included one by an
explosive shell which shattered the side
of the instrument panel and wounded
Mullens in the right hand and the right
side of the face. “Despite loss of blood,
he accurately bombed and strafed his
target and returned his aircraft safely to
base.” Before going on to New Guinea
Mullens wrote “Follow the Somme,” the
best air story The Bulletin has so far
had of the present war.
Patrick A. Ardagh, N.Z. Deputy-
Director of Medical Services, has been
made a brigadier in recognition of his
blood-transfusion work with the fighting
men in North Africa and thereabout.
After El Alamein the mortality rate for
wounds was far lower in his unit than
in others. Brigadier Ardagh was born
near Oamaru, and is in his fifties. He
won a D.S.O. in the 1914-18 war, and
married a Sydney girl named Lowick,
who served in that war as a nurse.
When Lieut.-Col. Jim Gerald (A.I.F.
entertainment unit) was boarded out Capt.
Jim Davidson, A.B.C. dance orchestra
conductor, took over, was promoted o.c.
all New Guinea troop entertaining, and
was succeeded by Lieut. H. W. Garland,
M. who used to be with H. D.
Mclntosh. Compared with their Middle
East experience, members of the unit
found New Guinea a quagmire of hell,
yet Diggers sat for hours in rains and
mist to hear their shows through. All
members lost poundage up • there,
comedian “Whakka” Dawes shedding 3st.
and Garland almost as much.
Into the silence;
In Melbourne, Ethel Mary Bage, who, like
her distinguished sister in Queensland, was one
of the notable feminine products of Melbourne
University. First president of the Australian
Women Graduates’ Association, she later
pioneered a field for women which is a com-
monplace these days—she was the first woman
in Victoria to own and manage a garage and
a motor service staffed entirely by women.
In Sydney, at 55, C. B. Kearney, City Mutual
Life director and senior partner in the Taylor
and Kearney legal firm. Born at Armidale
(N.S.W.), he was one of the original pupils at
Christian Brothers’ College, Waverley. Rugby
Union (he did a good bit of refereeing) and
golf (foundation member of the Roseville Club
and later captain of Pymble) were among his
interests away from the firm. He was widely
known as well for his lively humor and wit.
Both his sons are A.I.F.
In Sydney, A. S. Clemens, secretary of the
N. Draughts Association for many years
and winner of many championships and con-
tests. He carried on regularly games with over-
seas enthusiasts in America and Britain (by
letter) and contributed “problems” to the Army
magazine “Salt,” the Y.M. journal “Youth
and other publications.
At Armadale (Vic.), Mrs. Moritz Meyer,
novelist. Bom at Zurich, Switzerland, she won
the Schiller Prize there for her first book,
Delphine. The Eternal Flock, her first Aus-
tralian novel, describing sheep-station life, was
published in Switzerland.
T. E. Day (78) had over half a century of
survey work for S.A., working up to Chief
Surveyor for the N.T. Then, back in Adelaide,
chairman of the Pastoral Board and Surveyor-
General. Day was a link with the far-back
times of McDouall Stuart, having been in the
field as a youth under Stephen King, who had
been one of Stuart’s exploring party.
In Melbourne, Professor George Higgins,
M. one of Australia’s leading engineers. He
had a hand in the construction of railways m
N. the Princes’ Bridge in Melbourne and a
vast number of other projects. Later he re-
turned to Melbourne University as dean of the
faculty of engineering. Justice Higgins was a
brother. One son is serving with the R.A.A.F.
and another with the U.S. Navy.
In Melbourne, at 66, after a major operation,
Hugh McConaghy, C.8.E., Controller-General
of Customs and chairman of the Tariff Board
up to 1942. He was a champion of protection,
and Australia owes him much. His reports on
industries were models of what such things
should be. Born at Binalong, he passed through
the N.S.W. civil service into the Federal sphere
in 1902.
In Melbourne, at 64, Ashley Howard Teece,
the courageous Sydney Congregational clergy-
man who served with the 6th Light Horse as a
chaplain in the last war and earned the M.C.
for rescuing a wounded man under heavy fire.
He was onetime a member of the Repatriation
Commission and for six years secretary of Mel-
bourne Hospital.


Society
"AND IT'S PRINTED
WITH WIMBLES INKS"
“Clooter”; I’ll accept “blaunch” but
not scarp as additions to the slanguage
from this war (B. 25/8/’43). Camped
under the bridge at Wagga (N.S.W.) early
in 1928 I shared my smokes with a some-
what breathless individual who an-
nounced that, after a “blow and a suck,”
he intended to “scarper up t’ town an’
battle some scran.” We spent two days
together, “battling” Wagga for tucker
and odd jobs, and if he observed a car
hitting high speed he would remark that
it was “scarpin’ along.” He intended
making for the Ovens River tobacco
country, where an uncle had a farm, but
he’d have to “scarp t’ get there before
the harvest is finished.” His tattooed
arms suggested an acquaintanceship with
the sea, but he wasn’t communicative as
to his past.
* * * *
“Avon”; It would seem that the
U.S.A., like Australia, has the safety -
match habit. Nothing seems to have
struck American service men as strangei
or more outlandish than a Maorilander
lighting a cigarette with a wax vesta and
anointing the end that goes in the mouth
with molten wax from the hot match.
Yanks reckon the idea is so darned cute —
doing away with the necessity for cork,
“ivory” and other sorts of tips—that it's
a wonder nobody has patented it. It
seems cruel to tell them that Bryant and
May probably attended to that little
matter a hundred years ago.
* * * *
“Adam”: Like “Strict Veg.” (B.
25/8/’43) I have noticed that apples don’t
taste as well as they did 50 years ago, but
I m rppre inclined to blame Anno
Domini’s effect on ray palate than a quite
inexplicable perversity of public taste
which compels orchardists to concentrate
on the least delectable varieties. I have
noticed also that the sun shines less
brightly, the birds sing less sweetly, the
girls are not as pretty and flowers are
Jess fragrant than in the days of my
youth all Anno Domini. 1 wonder has
Strict Veg. ever had the experience of
re-reading a book that impressed him
mightily when he was one and twenty or
of dipping into the old files of a periodi-
cal he used to swear by,- and wondering
what on earth he ever saw in such
pabulum? When “Punch” retorted to a
complaint that it wasn’t as good as it
used to be that “it never was,” it enun-
ciated a large philosophic truth.
Zake ; / say “modern” apples are
bigger and better than ever and of greater
variety. Most of the older varieties have
been improved out of sight; Granny
Smiths, for instance, are now twice the
size and better eating than those originally
grown at Ryde (N.S.W.). The improve-
ment of a fruit by, say, making its roots
blight-proof doesn’t adversely affect the
flavor —that is governed by soil and cli-
mate. Tassie’s Jonathans owe their
superb flavor to the island’s volcanic soil
and its English-like coldness. The only
apple whose virtual disappearance I re-
gret is the Scarlet Permain—why this
handsome and deliciously-flavored apple
went off the market is a mystery to me.
$
“C.E. Once”: That bloke who claimed
Adelaide as the origin for the term
schooner of beer (B. 25/8/‘43) may have
been a bit mixed. In my time in the
crow-eating State a long beer was called
a butcher and a pint was a pint. There
was no intermediate quantity, which is
what the schooner represents, at least in
N.S.W. In Melbourne, you had merely
to ask for “a butcher of beer” for the
barman to say “How long since you left
South Oss?”
“Must be a radio announcer. Laughs ai his own rotten jokes."
“Peter Piper”: There’s an epidemic of
pilfering, as well as plagues of car-strip-'
ping, rilling of houses and assault and
robbery in Sydney, and police measures,
if any, are pathetically useless. And the
Johns can’t be all playing Rugby League
football. Prospective victims are resort-
ing to their own methods of prevention.
A restaurant manageress resorted to drill-
ing large holes in her spoons so that they
could be used only for stirring. Now she
loses only four and a half dozen a week.
* * * *
“S.T.S.”: That Gippslander who bet
(B. 14/7/’43) that it wouldn’t rain for
six months, and then claimed the stakes
because it rained only for four days,
was a swindler by our way of speaking ;
but would have been absolutely honest
if “Old-timer” had only made him an
American. It is the first time I have
ever seen recognised in print this idiom,
in which the American usage is far more
logical than ours. For a time means
duration, as we all admit. But when it
comes to the negative we lose our heads.
“Hasn’t rained for six months” we say.
We really mean that it hasn’t rained in
six months; and this is just how an
American puts it.
* * * *
“Craiser”: The war provides some
strange alternations of occupation. A
planter who made a hazardous escape
from the Japs at Rabaul subsequently
got a job as a diver in an Australian
harbor. Then the Australian forces began
reoccupying lost territory, and a unit
composed of white men with previous
experience of handling natives was
needed. The long arm of the Adminis-
tration stretched out and asked the ex-
planter if he would like to join the unit.
Within a week he had exchanged the
chill mud and Stygian gloom of the
southern port’s sea floor for the dazzling
sunshine and burning heat of New
Guinea.
* * * *
“Bohemian”; I entered ray favorite
tobacconist’s shop the other morning to
find the presiding duchess engaged in
altercation with a Scandinavian sailor.
She turned to me: “I asked what kind
of tobacco he wanted and he said ‘you
know.’ I never remember seeing him be-
fore.” “Yess, yess, you know! ” reiterated
the mariner. “What tobacco do you
smoke? Let’s have a look at it,” says I.
The alien after prolonged search pro-
duced a small piece from his pocket. I
examined it. The mystery was solved.
“He wants Juno, Miss,” I explained, “and
he can’t pronounce J.” But, alas! there
was no Juno in stock!
* * He »
“Jachris”: Useful but unloved are the
“Landing Ship Tanks,” which have
done the great bulk of the work
of carrying supplies and materiel to
the widespread South Pacific war
fronts. They were developed from an
original British design intended for the
landing of tanks and heavy motor trans-
pori on the beaches of North Africa—the
first of the litter were converted oil-
tankers, and their successors still have
much the same appearance, with bridge
and deckhouses placed well aft—and
they have done a fine job. Loading capa-
city is astonishing. So there’s apprecia-
tion of the part the L.S.Ts. are playing.
Supplies for the forces have to be tran-
shipped many times if they’re to be got
through reef-barred waters and lagoons.
Without the L.S.Ts. the processes of tran-
shipment might be easily doubled. But,
too, there’s what amounts to almost a
loathing of the ungainly-looking ships.
They plough through enemy-patrolled
waters, pulsing and vibrating at a com-
paratively slow speed. In the slightest swell
they roll prodigiously, ponderous and wal-
lowing. In a sea they crash and pound
into every wave. The smell of diesel fuel
pervades them. Any journey in an L.S.T.
seems doubly, monotonously long. There
can’t be worse ways of going to war than
in the L.S.Ts., but what a fix we’d be in
without them in the Pacific!
* * * *
“Bo”: A Sydney pressman, taking his
girl out to dinner, bought her a spray of
flowers at a shop near the restaurant. It
consisted of about ninepence worth of
daffies bound by a penn’orth of wire.
Ten bob, please. A demand to see the
manager produced only gesticulatory
alibis. Later a sozzled Allied soldier
bought a fiver s worth—a bouquet the
size of a cabbage which he solemnly pre-
sented to the first cop he met. Aliens
in business? Italians and refugees from
Central Europe are having the time ot
their lives, and nobody seems to care
whether they are naturalised or not
* * * *
“K.”: Dame Enid Lyons (B. 25/8/’43)
is the best of the woman speakers. Prior
to the elections she appeared in a news-
reel short in which she made an eloquent
appeal, apparently from her own garden,
for a national Government. She de-
livered it without notes, and it ran into
several minutes. It is a difficult test for
any woman to face a close-up movie
camera and remain perfectly at ease and
quite natural, but Dame Enid accom-
plished it. Moreover, she has the com-
fortable, motherly appearance that one
doesn’t usually associate with ladies in
politics. I’ll wager that this short was
a big factor in the good polling she made.
* * * *
“Adelaide”: S.A. has had a record year
of marriages. Two brides, both spinsters,
took the venture at 77 and 78 ; on the
other hand, three were only 14, and one
bride of 19 was already a widow. Among
the men, one was 82, but three were only
16. Difference in ages all round shows
a steady average of three years’ seniority
to the husband.
s#s ' $
“Spokeshave”: Some of the humor of
the elections seems to have been uncon-
scious. One of the Communist candi-
dates in Victoria appended to his name
on his posters letters indicating his aca-
demic qualifications. It seems rather in-
consistent for an individual who holds
to a revolutionary doctrine to advertise
that he values a diploma from that bour-
geois, not to say conservative, institution
the University of Melbourne. “Lenin,
8.A.,” is unthinkable.
“Any experience?"
"Yes, sir. I never Work back late, sir!”
THE MISFITS.
The passengers’ in the Curtin Government were
earned only because Caucus had heaved them aboard,
aim only Caucus could dislodge them. The oppor*
(unity for Labor to shed its Ministerial impedimenta
should not be missed.”— “S. M. Herald.”
What duds to eminence were brought,
What palpable misfits were found
Among the square-cut pegs they sought
To jam in orifices round!
Th ey must have felt in luck themselves
To get the party hack’s reward,
These oddments trom the Labor shelves,
These chaps whom Caucus heaved aboard.
Time was a skipper picked his crew
From those he wished to have about-
Himself, discarding those he knew
He’d vastly rather be without.
Now what he may or mayn’t prefer
To all intents becomes ignored.
He must accept without demur
The chaps whom Caucus heaves aboard.
When half a hundred meet to choose
„ Which of themselves the spoils shall share,
What chance for pulling strings one views,
at scope for rolling logs is there!
Will well-weighed judgment nnd a voice
Or sober merit be explored
To make impartially a choice
Of chaps whom Caucus heaves aboard?
What “passengers” we’ve seen of late
To wake derision, move alarm,
Weak reeds who tailed to pull their weight.
Sly birds who gave less help than harm!
And who can call it commonsense
Or not a rule to be deplored. ,
That only Caucus can dispense
With those whom Caucus heaves aboard?
High timo for those who’ve queered their
pitch
To bw discarded, and diverged
To that obscurity from which
They never ought to have emerged,
lo boggle at their quick dispatch
Is something Labor can’t aitord.
Here’s better fortune for the batch
Whom Caucus next will heave aboard!
N.S.W.
T. THE R.
THE SPORTS THAT LOST THEIR
TIN.
“It is estimated that 178 candidates at the recent
elections will forfeit their £25 deposits.”
Here’s to the blokes who carried home the
bacon,
Also to lots of less successful souls
Who, though they failed in what they’d under-
taken,
Put up a hefty showing at the polls!
And, lastly, let me drain a glass—because it's
But fair—to those I’ll call the whippers-in,
The birds who dissipated their deposits,
The sports that lost their tin!
There must be losers or there couldn’t be
winners.
At least they get some knowledge of the ropes,
Enthusiastic tyros, raw beginners
And hopeful champions of forlomest hopes,
Hence, when alike the victors we’ve a cheer for
And all whose backers got a decent spin,
One well may spare a sympathetic tear for
The sports that lost their tin.
Bravely they marched, careless of criticisms,
Plunged boldly in the strife of madding herds,
Protagonists of unfamiliar “isms”
That may some day (who knows?) be house-
hold words.
What though their lot was to be walloped
hollow.
They can reflect, to temper their chagrin,
They’ve blazed a trail successors yet may follow,
The sports that lost their tin.
Some blame malignant planets for upsetting
Their applecarts, but others scorn the plea;
They’ll tell you that there’s nothing they’re
regretting,
For all they aimed at was publicity.
What does it matter? Howsoe’er they fared, who
Doubts that they’re game to take it on the
chin?
Here’s to the down-and-outs, les enfants per-
dues.
The sports that lost their tin!
N.S.W.
MIDFORD.


“Hamer”: A heading “Called the Cook
a Hero” in “S.M.H.” brought to my
mind’s eye a vision of the mild but ex-
tremely conventional knight James Fair-
fax convulsively turning in his grave. I
covered labor news for “Granny” in
James’s day, and have a vivid recollec-
tion of how once, sick of the trite “A
strike is impending,” 1 started a report
“The bakers, like their yeast, are in a
ferment.” It was blue-pencilled out, and
a memo, came to me with the sharp rap;
“Please note, the ‘Herald’ is not a comic
paper.” That was 40 years ago, but the
trouble was the same as that which has
twice recently threatened the bread of
Sydney citizens —the bakers’ aversion to
night baking.
si« * *
“Tuart”: If I ever turn election agent,
as did my old schoolmate Mack Wishart
—with Melbourne for G.H.Q., the con-
tinent for field of operations and an im-
pressive record of victories in several
States—l will take commissions only
from candidates who are Scottish by birth
or origin. Just as the Old Diggers were
drawn to the Scots in their native Cale-
donia, finding the country but not the
people stern and wild, so are Australian
electors drawn to Scottish or Australian-
Scottish members, and they are faithful
to them even when adversity smites their
party, whatever it may be. Perth stuck
to J. M. Fowler for 22 years, though he
turned from Labor to the Liberals and
then became an anti-Hughes Nationalist
and had made his home in Melbourne.
Andrew Fisher remained M.H.R. tor
Wide Bay when it had really ceased to
be a Labor electorate —and it hasn’t been
one since Fisher left in 1915. And
there was that ever-victorious Pairth-
shire chiel Forgan Smith. Remem-
bering these examples, 1 dismissed
the assurances of a dozen “commen-
tators” that Dedman was doomed in
Corio, certain that his racial qualities of
ruggedness and dour honesty would erase
irritating memories of his Father Christ-
mas, pink icing and Mother’s Day buying-
orgy eccentricities. And see how Scot-
tish Opposition members have had their
heads lifted above the waters which en-
gulfed so many colleagues of other races.
Menzies in Kooyong (with the greatest
individual party majority), McDonald in
Corangamite, McEwen in Indi, Rankin
in Bendigo and Archie Cameron in
Barker. Granted that the idiosyncrasies
of people who mark preferences may beat
Archie, he polled a great personal vote.
No, when I go into the election-agent
business, only Scots and Scottish-Aus-
tralians will be eligible for my favors.
* * * *
“Snarker”: A lone clerk was doing
his best to cope with a long line of appli-
cants for railway tickets. He had an
answer for all the questions people ask
at such times and maintained a grim
immobility of countenance as he dealt
with one after another. When my turn
came I said “One and a half first return
Melbourne, with sleeping berths.” He
reached for the tickets, saying “Mr.
Snarker and wife?” “Well,” said I,
always the smart little fellow, “if you’ll
take my wife half-fare, I’m on.” “I’ve
got no time for jokes,” said the toneless
voice. Crushed, I got my tickets and
was about to withdraw when the ghost
of a smile flickered over the official mask
and the clerk said “Hey! Sorry, I’ve
just seen the joke.” Once again the dead
mask fell and the toneless voice came
back and said “Next, please.”
H* % % He
“Cauboy”: Reported that Hollywood’s
first full-length film centred exclusively in
Australia and Australians, “The Man
from Down Under,” with Charles Laugh-
ton in the role of the typical Digger of
the last war, contains some curious errors
of detail apparently overlooked by the
technical adviser, Lon Jones, of Mel-
bourne. There have been errors of detail
in Australian plays written by Austra-
lians. In a melodrama produced at the
old Royal in Melbourne the hero, having
taken to the track, returns to the ances-
tral homestead and, wearily throwing his
matilda on the ground, seats himself on
a tree-stump. “Put y’r bluey on the
stump,” bellowed the stentorian voice of
an individual who knew all about ants.
if. * * *
“Aye Jay”: A national anthem “A
Major” (B. 11/8/’43) might have men-
tioned is the Egyptian, a tune both august
and pompous. It was composed by Verdi
at the request of the Gyppo Government,
which at the same time commissioned the
opera “Aida” as part of the festivities
to grace the opening of the Suez Canal.
This anthem, however, is unique in that
even now, after 72 years, it has no words.
Diggers of the A.I.F. who sojourned in
Egypt corrected this omission with verses,
if not patriotically inspired, at least to
the point. They were lustily sung, one
particular line being beefed out with tre-
mendous unction. This seems to have
stirred the oflicial conscience, as just
before leaving the Middle East I saw an
announcement in the “Egyptian Mail” of
a competition with a good cash prize for
suitable words for the national air.
* * * *
“Curtain Raiser”; Music-lovers who
listened to Shastokovich’s “Leningrad”
Symphony in Australia probably didn’t
know that it was the first example of a
musical composition being brought to
the country by the new microscopic film
method. Printed on miniature film its
120 ft. was condensed into the space of a
matchbox. Then prints had to be made
enlarged to musical manuscript size,
which involved 1700 photographs to
cover the copductor’s score and 78 or-
chestral parts. The amount of labor in-
volved was considerable, but nothing like
the work involved in saving the face of
the Melbourne Symphony Orchestra on
a previous occasion when it was billed
to perform a new piece for the first time
in Australia. The scores went astray in
the post, but at the last moment a con-
ductor’s score (all the parts in a single
copy) was unearthed. The laborious job
of transcribing parts was done by hand
by willing workers in a few hours, so that
each orchestrion had his copy when the
concert was timed to begin.
* * * *
“Spoke”: It isn’t often that a private
citizen gets in the last word with a Gov-
ernment department, but it has just been
done in my city. The head of the firm
which has a contract to remove carcasses
of dead animals from the public eye and
“It ain't the Queen Lizzie 'cos she's got two funnels!"
nose had been driven to desperation by
petrol restrictions and was contemplat-
ing going out of business. One day he
got a telephone call from a departmental
official. “A horse dropped dead in front
of my house yesterday, and it’s still
there,” said the official; “I’d like you
to remove it.” “Well, I won’t,” declared
the gatherer-up of equine cadavers. “I
wouldn’t touch it if it dropped dead on
your drawing-room carpet.”
* * * *
“Hamer”: James Francis Dwyer (B.
18/8/’43), the Australian who won a
lucrative American market as a short-
story writer, had, like Australian artist
Pat Sullivan (who made a fortune out of
“Felix the Cat”), some lean times before
he struck oil. He did that with the aid
of an editor who showed him how to pad
his well-constructed yarns in the way
desired by U.S.A. magazines. Dwyer has
told fellow-Australians he met overseas
that he still regards his Bulletin stones
as, artistically, his best work. Dwyer’s
pal in his old Sydney days was actor-
writer-horseman Tal Ordell, now filling
a niche in radio. Between them they de-
veloped the technique of two lunches for
threepence. One of them would go into
a pub where plentiful free counter-lunch
was provided and, ordering a threepenny
mug of beer, dwell on it down to the half-
way mark while he stoked in the proven-
der ; then when the barman’s back was
turned there would be a quick change,
the other man taking his cobber’s place.
# * * *
“S.T.S.”: Ever since I heard the origi-
nal Fairy Queen in “Tolanthe”' (not
“Patience,” as “Caesar’s Ghost” suggests,
B. 4/8/’43) sing “O Captain Shaw” and
actually aim it at the head of London’s
Fire Brigade sitting In the stalls, I have
been interested in attempts to bring
W. S. Gilbert up to date—in other words,
to give him a modern meaning. Such
changes are quite different from real
“gagging,” which is unpardonable
where the actor has classic lines en-
trusted to him by the author. But,
of course, the acutely topical touch,
which goes with most effect at the
moment, is the very soonest to become
meaningless to audiences widely divided
by space or even time. In the original
“Mikado,” for example, I heard London’s
yell of delight when the monarch’s miss-
ing son’s address was guessed at as
“Knightsbridge”—simply because there
was at the moment an exhibition with
Japs in it in that western district of
London. But is it fair to Gilbert to let
that remark fall utterly flat, as it must
fall here and now? So there is argu-
ment for putting in instead King’s Cross
or Footscray or Subiaco or as contem-
porary circumstances may suggest. How-
ever, the only actual authority 1 can find
on Gilbert’s agreeing to alterations is in
the case of the people who “never would
be missed.” He lived to approve “the
scorching bicyclist” being pilloried when
this 20-m.p.h. innovator was thought to
be a menace, and probably the murder-
ous motorist and the Communist (with
adjective to taste) would have pleased
him too.
* * * *
“Melbn”; A tragi-comic example of
non-co-operation is presented in Mel-
bourne again this spring in the aspect of
Dandenong-road, the thoroughfare which
is the nearest rival to St. Kilda-road, re-
garded as the brightest gem in Mel-
bourne’s civic crown. The trees on one
side flourish in all their umbrageous glory
while those on the other side are cropped
and shorn. The two sides of the road
are in different municipalities. St. Kilda
and Prahran believe in hard pruning and
pollarding, while Melbourne, South Mel-
bourne, Malvern and Caulfield believe in
leaving Nature alone.
“Pat Ater” doesn’t admit it:
Sydney’s trees did not fail because of
“poverty-stricken surface soil and solid rock
subsoil” (B. 18/ 8 / ’43), but because unsuitable
cold-climate varieties were chosen. None should
have been planted at all in the chain-wide
apologies for streets which tall buildings shade
and which run into the wind (east-west
aspected). But there are open streets like Mac-
quarie—where, incidentally, there are no silver
birches now; those unhappy exotics were re-
moved long ago. The poor soil and the rock
base needn’t be a bar to success with adaptable
native trees. Tree-planters in other places have
overcome worse obstacles. Anywhere around
Sydney you’ll find the glorious redgums, un-
surpassed in beauty, thriving in just that class
of soil and subsoil. Angophom bakerii, Mela-
leucas and Callitris, too. I’ll stake my last
box of matches that Angophom lanceolata
(Sydney’s redgum) in Macquarie-street, Mela-
leucas in Bridge-street and cedar wattles in
Bent-street will make avenues “comparable
with European and American” —if given the
chance. What a noble avenue the redgum
would make in its “home” conditions. As for
jacarandas, they don’t like southerlies at any
time and in Queen’s-square they get an over-
dose. Have a look at the Queensland teak
(Flindersia australis ) near by and see another
story. It’s a clear case for trial of amiable
natives, plus the adaptable plane. High winds
up the “funnel” of Hyde Park were the de-
stroyers of many tree types, till figs, wattles
(Acacia saligna only one to stand it), gums,
Melaleucas and planes won the day. I had a
hand in that work. Argument about water-
front and poor soil north of the Town Hall
won’t hold water. The Botanic Gardens are
there in soil that history records was considered
“too poor for growing plants.” Look at the
trees there, and learn why we don’t give up
the idea of street trees without a fight.
* * * *
“Emdee”: I started reading at the age
of four, and waded through everything
that came to hand—mostly indigestible.
Recently I began planning a graded de-
velopment for some children, considered
such writers as R. M. Ballantyne and R.
L. Stevenson, and just when the list was
almost complete came across a pro-
nouncement on the subject by Dr. Marie
Stopes. The lady maintains that it is
criminal to allow any child who has any
future possibility of intellectual life to
be taught to read before he is ten. She
quotes the case of a nine-and-a-half-yeait;
old boy who, when he wanted to learn
to read, did so easily in three weeks.
I’m still wondering how much superfluous
time ! spent in the little old school on the
hill.
* * * *
“Craiser”; Recently reported that
Picasso has escaped from France and got
to America. I’m glad to hear it. A lot
has been said against his paintings, but
there is an individuality about him which
ought to gain respect even from the most
conservative of critics. Since the Nazi
occupation of Paris he painted a grim
picture entitled “War.” The news got
around, and a Gestapo agent called on
him in his studio. “Did you paint that?”
he asked, pointing a menacing finger at '
the canvas on the easel. “No,” said
Picasso. “You did!”
* * # *
“23-4”: A remarkable case of a sense
of injustice turning into an obsession that
resulted in trouble extending over 15
years has just ended in Queensland
Criminal Court. In 1928 a reprint of a
State school textbook was ordered. It
contained a sentence, referring to the bird
of paradise, “Some of the forms
on which plumes are fashioned
are three feet square.” Somehow
the word “fastened” displaced
“fashioned” in the reprint. There
were reports and inquiries, and a
man was reduced in status. He
began writing letters to his
superiors, asserting his blameless-
ness for the mistake. He extended
the letters to Ministers and finally
to the State Governor. The writer
was discharged from the Govern-
ment Printing Office and given a
temporary position in the Taxa-
tion Department. But the letter-
writing went on, and he was even:
tually dismissed from Govern-
ment employ in February, 1940.
Then the man wrote to the
Governor in an offensive
strain. He was haled before the
Court and released under bond to
come up for sentence if called
upon. It was said on his behalf
that his disrating had lost him
£2OOO in salary, and that he had
written the letters in endeavors to
ascertain why he was sacked. He
had sent £25 to the Premier ask-
ing for a trial at his own expense.
It was returned. He sent the
money and the request to the
Governor, with the same result.
He had sent both elsewhere and
had them returned. He is 67
now.
“C.R.”: A successor to “Convoy,’
“Ships with Wings” and “The Foreman
Went to France” is likely to come out
of Australia. In November A.T.P.,
Ealing, which produced those outstand-
ing pictures, is sending a unit from Eng-
land ; personnel to be added on arrival.
Michael Balcon will direct the picture
and Flarry Watt, who produced “Target
for Tonight,” will produce it. They will
have the full co-operation of the Com-
monwealth Government and the three
services.
* * * *
“Sky Pilot”: I don’t suppose Australia
will ever add “Mosquito Day” to its
feasts and holidays, but it is observed
very earnestly each year at the Ross In-
stitute and Hospital for Tropical Diseases
near London. Its first director was the
Scot who established for the first time
that malaria is an insect-borne disease.
Dr. (later Sir) Ronald Ross. Malaria had
always been attributed to the foul air
arising from marshy places, as the name
implies. After years of patient research
Ross got the clue he sought in the
bowels of an anopheles on August 20,
1897. He chose that day for the annual
celebration. Unfortunately for his
memory, Ross’s life as an army surgeon
in India is difficult to glamorise, and
Hollywood turned instead to the Ameri-
can Dr. Walter Reed and his work on
yellow fever in the Panama. As a result
the average man thinks Reed the original
discoverer when actually he built on the
earlier findings of the Scot. Ross, though
awarded the Nobel Prize for Medicine in
1902 and knighted in 1911, remained
comparatively unknown outside the circles
of those specialising in tropical medicine,
and his name would mean nothing to the
thousands of Australian fighting men in
the north who owe to him the high de-
gree of immunity from malaria which
they enjoy.


ABORIGINALITIES
44 Ek D.”: A fearsome article on the
terrors of Centralia which is now sweep-
ing feature pages seems to presume the
existence of an Australian secret weapon
which should be as well worth searching
for as Possum Lasseter’s lost reef. The
‘"special” tells of one of those duels
which we old-timers of Alice Springs used
to fight every morning before breakfast as
a loosener-up —“Two men, one armed
with a .32 cal. rifle, the other with a .22
cal. pistol, faced each other.” The villain
with the rifle had “forced the duel on
the other.” He walked towards his oppo-
nent, firing a shot at him every few paces,
until “the distance between the two nar-
rowed down to about 100 yards,” when
the rifleman fell to his knee —“took de-
liberate aim and missed.” The man with
the .22 pistol raised his weapon and
“drilled the rifleman through the fore-
head.” With a view to providing data
about that .22 pistol, which all the Allied
armies will assuredly want when they
hear about it, I now offer to fight the
winner with a shanghai—at a range of
100 yards.
* * *
“T.V.”: So “J. Rilston” (B. 4/8/’43)
believes that “the salt lakes of the Centre
would become beautifully fresh were they
full.” Well, I only hope he doesn’t put
his theory to the test when on an other-
wise dry track. My experience of smaller
saltpans is borne out by an ex-manager
of Yeltacowie (S.A.), a station which has
a 20-mile frontage—measured, that is, in
a straight line —on Lake Torrens, and
which is hemmed in on the south by
Lake Windabout and the 20-mile-long
Pernatty Lagoon. After a big rain the
water collected in Lake Torrens is brine
and, lest “J.R.” should argue that it
would be fresher if the big lake were full,
it should be noted that Pernatty Lagoon
gets full for miners to sail boats on it. It
holds 15 feet or so of bright blue, clear
water —water saltier than the sea.
* # # #
“Pine Creek”: The best of green hide
ropes are twisted, not plaited. Three
strands of half-inch thick hide, soaked
and scraped on both sides, are threaded
through three holes in a board and
fastened to a post. The other ends are
then equally spaced and attached to a
dray wheel jacked off the ground. The
wheel is now turned, and as it turns it
twists the rope to the requisite degree.
Weights are then suspended at intervals
along the rope to stretch and tauten
the strands. More winding may be
needed. In a few days the rope has dried
and set. It is then treated with neats-
foot made from the beast which owned
the hide, massaged and worked till soft
and pliant. Four strands of twisted hide
cut from a dead beast not too ripe will
prove stronger and more durable than a
plaited rope made from a peeled hide,
irrespective of its color or methods of
curing. The sun draws the juices of the
beast into the hide, which is thereby
toughened and strengthened, while a
peeled hide is lighter and weaker in
texture.
* * * *
“8.4.”: Can support “Julia Creek’s”
assertion (B. 11/8/’43) that bulls can be
pulled down by cattle-dogs. Incidentally,
it’s the dingo strain which induces these
dogs to work silently. The original
dingo-Scottish merle cross, with an
occasional reversion to pure dingo blood,
fixed the Australian type of cattle-dog,
red or blue according to heredity. The
red speckled result is tougher, craftier,
nippier than the blue and ducks like a
fedder to avoid the back lash of bitten
beef. Forty years ago on the Suttor we
had a pair of red cattle-dogs that no
scrub-bull weaving through the coachers
could break from. Mick, a natural
heeler, secured a nose hold as his mate
Tiger grabbed from behind. This combi-
nation of holts proved too much for the
startled bull, which fell over himself as
he bucked and bawled in an endeavor
to escape. Rogues which hid in clumps
suddenly bounded and bawled into the
mob as a flashing red streak struck and
bit. Without dogs in Queensland cattle-
men, dairymen and horses would soon
be dog-poor.
* * * *
“Sailor Bill”: Years ago we were told
that tree mistletoe got a hold in the bush
because of the destruction of its natural
enemy, the possum. Earlier still, when
scarce a possum could stick its head out
of its hole at night without getting a
bullet through it. there was no mistletoe
“Easy on the language, girts—here comes a gentleman!”
on the trees around my N.Q. dwelling.
These days, when possum music rings out
from dusk to dawn, and the housing
shortage in the surrounding hollow trees
is so acute that a family of ’em has taken
up quarters on my ceiling, the box- and
ironbark-trees are smothered with a
dozen different kinds of mistletoe.
Periodically I have to prune mistletoe-
infested limbs out of my citrus-trees. If
I didn’t the possums wouldn’t be able to
—as they do —harvest three-quarters of
the fruit, not to mention also my
tomatoes, pawpaws and cucumbers.
* * * *
“Plane Creek”; Can’t say I’ve tried
“Pat Ater’s” remedy (B. 4/8/’43), but
when my hand was still smarting three
hours after my encounter with a stinging
bush I chanced to go hand-manuring
ratoon cane. When the sulphate of am-
monia got thick on my hand the pain
ceased abruptly. I found it recurred
when I rubbed the salty stuff away.
Blackfellows cure their stings by rubbing
them sharply with dry sand until all the
skin is eroded.
* * * *
“Lower Tops!”: That injured sea bear
which stranded on a Sydney beach and
had to be destroyed had a relative in
Hobson’s Bay (Vic.) this year who also
met a tragic end. A large, bewhiskered,
grizzly-headed specimen, ten to twelve
feet in length, he took up residence on
the staging under the Fawkner pile-light,
and for more than four months fished the
bay, much to the chagrin of fishermen,
especially those regulars on the Break-
water pier, Williamstown. Often he
basked right in the steamer traffic in the
way seals do —floating like a tree log.
One day we drifted down on him while
our engineer stood at the ready to photo-
graph him, but the seal, suddenly waking,
let out a deafening bark and the camera
was dropped with fright. His basking,
however, ended soon afterwards when the
crew of an Allied tanker gashed one of
his flippers badly in an attempt to hai-
poon him. No longer able to float 01
manoeuvre advantageously, the amphibian
took refuge under the Breakwater pier,
where later a large shark and much blood
told of his fate. Though seals today m
alarmingly increasing numbers frequent
the fishing grounds off Victoria’s storm-
lashed shores, the presence of one in
Hobson’s Bay is extremely rare. In the
memory of old Williamstownites it has
occurred only once before.
* * * *
“Sarina”: The imported toads that are
keeping the cane grubs down in N.Q.
are also having a go at the buffalo fly (B.
4/8/’43). A Sugar Experiment Station
official found six toads on a cow camping
by the roadside one evening. They were
snapping up the buffalo flies. One toad
was killed and examined; its stomach
contained 47 flies.
* * * *
“Chuck”: The old bloke, having
knocked up a decent skin cheque, was
buying a wireless set. “Here’s a neat
little model,” mentioned the salesman,
switching on a small mantel set,
“though hardly the type of thing
you are wanting, of course.” Dad
listened to the old ballad coming over
the air with a dreamy faraway look in
his eyes. He gulped once or twice as the
salesman shut it off and turned to a big
glittering console in the opposite corner.
“Ah, I think this is what you want, Mr.
Saunders,” he said cheerfully, twirling
the dials. “More modern, you know,
and” He was swamped by the Orter-
bee Swung Sisters cackling over the
octaves in startling outbursts ; then as
they shut down the Jitterbug Orchestra
took over to blast its way through
a new hit-and-run arrangement. “Well,
what do you think of that one?” asked
the salesman as he turned it off. The
old bloke shook his head and pointed to
the smaller set. “I’ll take that,” he an-
nounced decidedly. “Yair, I know I wus
set on havin’ one o’ them big ’uns, but
I jus’ couldn’t stand the sort o’ moosic
that there instrument plays, not if y’
wus t’ gimme it f’r nuthin 4 !”
* * * $
“Propalong”: How’s “Herbert Dawson”
(B. 4/8/’43) going to get on if he strikes
a job in the unfenced top-end of S.A.,
punching cattle on Innamincka, Macumba
or the Peak? Mustering means lapping
along from daylight till dark at a pace
no canine yet patented can stand, over
wide stretches of wicked gibber table-
land.
* * * *
“B. A. Ker”: Way back in the Petrol
Age I stopped the old bus at a little
hamlet in order to buy some meat for
the rest of the journey. After vainly hol-
lering “Shop!” a dozen times I was about
to drop the whole idea when Rip Van
Winkle’s brother poked his head in the
door and squeaked “The butcher’s over
in the pub playin’ poker!” The informa-
tion proved correct; but, somewhat re-
luctantly, Butch said “I’ll come over
after this ’and.” There were seven “last
hands” before the butcher finally dragged
himself back,to mundane things like
meat. “Now,” he said as he slapped my
order on the counter, “are you a sport?”
I thought I was. “Good,” he grinned ;
“then it’s double or quits—five bob or
nothing!” For the first time in my life
I won a toss. Butch regarded me whim-
sically as I collected the stake —or steak.
“Ain’t I a dope?” he asked ; “I break up
a run of luck, come over here, cut that
meat, weigh it, wrap it up, then make
you a present of it! Next time be a good
feller and just pinch it, will y’?”
* * * *
“Jumbuck”: I’d like to see some of
these wizard sheep-counters who’ve been
tallying their way through the Abo. pages
lately draft three ways and count the
jumbucks on the through run. About 10
years ago I saw one Harry Williams on
a n.-w. Queensland run drafting a mixed
mob of ewes, wether and ewe weaners,
and he counted as he drafted the biggest
mob, the ewes on the through draft.
There were 1200-odd ewes, and to settle
an argument a check count revealed that
Williams was only one ewe out in the
tally.
* * * *
“Drover”; Where did “A.D.T.” (B.
18/8/’43) see or hear of any meatworks
buyer who bought on the hoof and got
within 101 b. a head of a 1200-mob in-
spected 1000-odd miles away in March
and killed five months later? I know that
buyers from the works inspect and report
on mobs after the wet season, but in the
parts of Queensland’s cattleland whsre
I’ve kicked about buying on the hoof by
meatworks companies is a thing of other
days. Price per 1001 b. frozen or chilled
weight over the scales according to grade
is the rule.
* * * *
“Bad Australian”: A few incidents in
the explorations of Grey and Leichhardt
may have lent support to “Anthropo’s”
contention (B. 18/8/’43) that prior to the
arrival of the white man the blacks kept
all wild life at a low ebb, but generally
the experience of the two explorers was
against it. Grey, in his report on his
expedition inland from the Glenelg
River, was moved to record that “North-
west Australia is as good a country in
a shooting way as any I am acquainted
with.” The unfortunate end of the expe-
dition was due not to scarcity of native
game but to dissension among its mem-
bers and the persistent hostility of the
natives. The distressed condition of
Leichhardt’s expedition on its arrival at
Port Essington was due far less to scarcity
of native game on his route than to his
incapacity as a leader. On the expedi-
tion which resulted in the discovery of
the Darling Downs Alan Cunningham
found fish, fur and feather in abundance
at every stage of his journey. Major
Mitchell records a similar experience in
his exploration of the Balonne, Maranoa,
Barcoo, Darling and Murray River areas,
and he states that kangaroos, emus and
other native game were very numerous
throughout Australia Felix.
* * * *
“T.V.”: “Avon” (B. 11/8/’43) reminds
me of the raised eyebrows which on
numerous occasions down south have
called me a liar for asserting that the
interior knows lower temperatures than
coastal Adelaide. To the city man, accus-
tomed to thinking of the hot north, such
a statement seems an absurd paradox;
yet it’s true. If Adelaide experienced as
many degrees of frost as does Hergott
Springs, 400 miles to the north, there d
be no vineyards below Mt. Lofty.
* * * *
“Horseless Horseman”: “M.U.R.” is
right—there’s more outback color around
the Mid-Murray’s oldest town, Fusion (B.
14/7/’43), than in any place I know. I,
too, went there as a youth from the Kim-
berleys just 14 years ago, and wondered
what I had struck. It wasn’t only those
townsfolk feuds; there were feuds be-
tween fishermen and “intruders” and
among steamer woodcutters. And the
population included whalers, sleeper-
cutters, rabbiters, illicit possumers, dog-
gers, mad hatters, station workers of all
kinds, overlanding drovers, grape-blockers
and even wheat cockies over the river.
You had almost every kind of shrub,
tree, marsupial, bird and pest and trans-
port that was mostly bullock-team or
river steamer. “M.U.R.” must remembei
the Brett brothers, George Beacher, who
carted the town’s stores with horses from
the railhead for half a century and who
to this day hasn’t been on a train, and
that braw Scot A. J. Kilpatrick, of Hus-
ton station, uncrowned king of a
territory 100 miles in extent, who as
honorary magistrate, coroner, stock in-
spector, etc., was Euston. His one rival,
Harry Leslie, of Prill, the greatest horse-
man ever seen on the Murray, was local-
born, and, though he couldn’t read or
write, died two years ago at the age ot
84 owning 300,000 acres. In my six years
there, too dry for racing, the only diver-
sion was a circus, which we station blokes,
getting the performers tight, ran our-
selves. To keep the show going and
the Law away, we let the lion out. Next
morning, fortunately, Leo was peacefully
asleep on the post office porch!
OLD MAC.
He said he would like to be buried near
His dear, brown Scottish hills.
He had sailed the seas for many a year
From Flattery round to Finisterre,
Whc, foresail fills —
But we were ;.outh where auroras keep
Their watch over waters bare,
So we sent him down in the Tonga Deep,
And it’s six-mile deep down there.
Old Mac, he lay in the fo’c’sle there,
With the death-dew in his eyes,
And said “I would like to be buried where
The heather greets the skies.”
The tough mate coughed and said “Righto!
Sleep now and be happy, Mac!”
And we heard the Roaring Forties go
Like hell-hounds on their track.
The tall seas looked like his hills of home
(If his eyes had not been dark)
Till along a ridge ran a line of foam
That slithered beneath the barque;
And the yelling wester screamed again
Till we dropped in the valley between;
And we buried Old Mac, that king of men,
Between those mountains green.
He said he would like to sleep beside
The kirk where he was named
Ere he sailed away where the skies are wide
And there’s nothing between but wind and
tide.
The sea no power has tamed.
But we buried him down in Tonga Deep
And the Old Man said this prayer,
“In the arms of God Old Mac will sleep!”
And it’s six-mile deep down there.
n.s.w.
WILL LAWSON.


“Old-timer”: Long Lane had dropped
his swag under the bridge that night and
gone up the town with 6s. in his pocket.
Presently he bought into a 2s, snooker
pool and missed out. He had a second
go and missed again. Now desperate,
Long threw in his last 2s. and four more
players joined, making the pool worth
10s. to the winner. Long, never more
than a fair-to-middling player, concen-
trated as never before and managed to
stay in the last three, needing the pink to
live. Facing up for his shot, he found
the white was just in the left side of the
D in baulk, the black about nine inches
from the top cush. and six inches from
the top left pocket, the pink behind the
black and touching it. Long’s only
chance was a fine shot off the cush. to hit
the pink, a fact which caused his oppo-
nents so much glee that they chiacked
him. That got him wild. “I’ll bet y’
double the pool I hit it,” he challenged.
They took him. Long saw that the door
on the right of the table was open for a
quick getaway, hit the white with plenty
of running side and moved towards the
door. The white caromed off the cush.
into the jaws of the pocket, rocketed out,
hit the pink, rebounded and hit the pink
again, driving it across the table into the
right centre pocket. Meantime the white
kissed the black gently, rolled coyly round
it and left a sitter for the next shot.
Long sunk it, collected the pool and 10s.
each from his two opponents, then went
on tiptoe to the door. “What are y’
creepin’ for?” somebody asked. “So I
won’t get too big a shock when I wake
up,” said Long.
* * * *
“E. 2”: The only education Joe pos-
sessed was a smattering of the three R’s
picked up in the course of a rough
bush life. Eventually he married and
went into the little store at Dogwood
Creek, with his wife to watch over the
business side of things. Old Dan, who
worked about the district, ran up a fairly
large bill, and Joe, pressed for cash,
called upon his resources to pen a letter
asking payment.:
To Dan martin dear Dan,
I am sory to bring the mater up with
you abowt yor acount it has bean runing
over six munths now with me. I hope you are
geting on oright and plenty of work but
this acount is overjew if it soots yor con-
veence I wood like it paid at first opor-
chunty if you dont setle with me verry
soon you moneydojin cow I will bludywel
sumens you yor respecfuly Joe Kelly.
He got his money in the next mail.
* * * *
“Shep”: When his newchum hand
rushed frantically across Mallee sand
dunes and breathlessly announced that
he’d found a skull of someone “who
must have been murdered,” Barney Mc-
Gillicuddy went along and salvaged it,
carrying it gently into the kitchen and
putting it on the table. The hand had
in the meantime rung the police sergeant.
Sergeant, a doer, took one look at the
grinning relic and recognised it for what
it was—the skull of some long-forgotten
tribal wanderer. He turned furiously on
the grinning Barney and, winking
solemnly and surreptitiously, produced a
pair of handcuffs. These he fastened
round Barney’s wrists, at the same
time charging him formally with murder.
“I told you that next time you murdered
one of your Pommies I'd have to take
you in,” he roared. Barney, 6ft. 2in.
and 15 stone of genial humor, fell humbly
to his knees. “Let me go this time, Sarge,
and I’ll never bash another, ’ he pleaded,
and eventually the sarge yielded to his
entreaties and released him. But when
the roll was called at dinner that night
there was no sign of the new hand, who
had departed sans luggage and wages.
* * * *
“Mat’s Mate”: It was a Sunday after-
noon and hot. As we carried our knots
past the pub we saw a thirsty mob
hanging round in the street, the
publican on the verandah and the John
standing opposite, watching them all. “A
feed?” said the Bung bitterly. “Get rid of
"Would you mind changing places. Sergeant — I prefer to face the
engine ?”
that flamin’ nark over there an’ y’ can
have a week’s free board an’ beer.”
“Make it a coupla instead,” said
Mat. “She’s yours, ’ said Bung scepti-
cally. We went on, dropped our swags
and conferred. Presently the lady of a
large house on the outskirts saw me leer-
ing suspiciously over the back fence. She
went to the front, and there was Mat,
slyly feeling the front gate and looking
alertly up and down the street. After
another look at me she went inside. We
waited. Presently that John came along,
We let him chase us down
where we pulled up. There we hel
him, arguing about various things, but h
Slie”'Ground actoron whaT ffly
Then we yarned to him about this and
thf mwn PreS Eve y rvtod h v ee was "happy by
the town. Everybody was nappy y
then, and the publican, though he tried
to beat us down paid up But it was just
as well for us that the lady in the big
.h°e US exS “'T^ ma ofhe a rwise W we’m gh°t
I* l6 extent or ius., ornerwise we imyu
have been charged with loitering with
mtent ’ * * * #■
“Aratta”: The city-bred hand came
tearing up to the homestead, alarmed and
agitated. After he had calmed down a
bit he informed Dad that when passing
the sun-dried carcass of Nugget, the old
draught horse, dead two years in the
corner of the cow paddock, he had
seen the remains move and heard sounds
coming from its interior. The phene-
menon had also affected Strawberry, for
she had trotted after him as he fled from
(he haunted spot, making P a S se s at him
“Is this your idea of a carrier pigeon?”
. rounds
Muttfd/g'dtsbe iefin hiwSersDad
Multer.nl; d so and
to investigate. When they
srt oh “ hajr
reaped ™ c The thi did move , Then
Strawberry came towards them, mooing
menacingly, and the sun-dried carcass
became very agitated, and from its hiding
place of skin and bones crawled Straw-
berry’s two-days-old calf. Just another
instance of a bovine mother’s caution.
* * * *
Talking wood and talking rock
(B. 25/8/’43) may be right enough, but
has anybody ever heard the tide talking?
Port Hacking (N.S.W.) is a long, fairly
straight and narrow inlet, with a mix-
ture of sand and mud flats at low tide.
On a still warm evening the waters come
steadily in, talking and chuckling and
singing odd snatches of s ®* chanties, ,u ”’
nmgLf 1 }? e ti ? mf
flowing and all the time babbling away
like a crowd of schoolchildren m the dis-
tance. Sticks and leaves and bits of flot-
sam get up and walk, or stand on t e
heads, or turn somersaults or roll over
and over. The eager water and the mov-
ing rubbish and the constant voices of the
tide convey an unforgettable impression
of life, sound and movement, like a city
ma * * .
» Chuck ». old Flint had schemed him-
. the travelling cir-
cos “r nothing, and Jerry, the inti-
tator, had discovered the fraud. After
™in_y ry d "® id ° d |n cven the score with
a bit of cheap mutton. The night was
Flint’s nlace onlv three miles
dark only tnree
outside the tent plastered
bandages “No,” he answered
me'doteMy Tcanhbe’ as good as I
. >/’• , f d the place ric bt
thought
truckin’ at daylight, but I’d no sooner
started in than I came up against a pile
o’ boxes. The house door banged an’ old
Skinflint’s voice yelled ‘Who’s there?’
’Course I knew it weren’t no use pullin’
the cat-howl gag round a bloke’s sheep-
yards, so I squatted against the fence an’
started barkin’ like mad. After ’bout a
couple o’ yaps that bloke dived for a gun
an’ come huntin’.” The star imitator
shook his head sadly. “Yair, an’ do y’
know, Chuck, I been puttin’ that dog
bark over erty mobs fr years!"
“Ro”- “Whacker” Wilson an ancient
of the track, had by means best known to
himse|f ac red a new pair of boots. Of
genuine calfskin and moulded in quite
| attractiv e last, they constituted his
greate st pride. Betimes, while the pristine
fhine I still upon the tops of them
where his trousers had rubbed the dust
of the road off, he lobbed into Fencin-
wire. It was Saturday and “Whacker
partook freely of the beer that was put
in front of him at generous intervals by
the local lads, to whom the old man
proudly displayed his new boots.
“Whacker” was a fairly good drinker,
but he wasn’t in the race against true
Fencinwire hospitality, and at the end of
two hours he was snoring off, his head on
his swag, on the pub verandah form. It
was then the locals got to work. Late
that afternoon “Whacker” slowly
struggled back to consciousness. Then
as he raised himself on his elbow and his
eyes fell on his toes sticking out of the
dilapidated pair of trilbies at the other
end of the form he swore long and loud,
then said: “Strike me stiff, I’ve ’card o’
grog rottin’ y’r boots, but I never thought
the blasted thing’d happen to me!”
* * * *
“The O.D;”: Neat little yarn about
“Paroo” Walters using wheat to persuade
galahs to sit on a single-wire ’phone line
(B. 25/8/’43), but what sort of galahs
were they that could grip the threadlike
wire of a single line and stay upright?
“Sky Pilot”: Mick Donnelly had mis-
laid his false teeth. Suspicion pointed to
the rubbish tip out beyond the mine, for
there had been a clean-up around the
compound, and even Mick’s hut had been
covered by it. He sought out his mate.
Bill O’Brien, to come and help him comb
the “tip” over for the teeth. Bill wanted
to know what it was worth. “Well,” says
Mick, “I’ll give you a quid.” “Blimey,”
said Bill, “you don’t get me that cheap.
Why Curly O’Connor down at the board-
in’-house’ll give two quid to the man who
can find any kidney in his steak and
kidney puddin’.”
“Horseless Horseman”: I helped to re-
pair a kangaroo fence on Lower Crawford
station on the Smokey River near Hey-
wood (Vic.). This massive hopper-proof
structure —of 18in. by Sin posts, Bft. high
and apart, with stubs halfway up and
rails to the top —was split from logs
snigged on to the line with bullocks by
Dowling, a selector there over 60 years
ago. In between erecting four miles
of this fauna barrier in that still
little-known western Vic. corner, that
pioneer milked cows and carted cream
40 miles to Portland with buggy and
horses. They grafted, right enough, those
old-timers.
m * ♦ •
“Propalong”: I’ve just been listening
to a bloke wailing out of the radio about
how, when he’s issued with a harp, his
“ole paint horse” will come cantering
over the clouds to meet him. It sounds
all right, but it forgets a few complica-
tions. Take me now. “When I get way
up there yonder” there’s going to be a
stampede as Digger, Baldy, Mum, Red,
Sara, Amelia Jane and all the rest of my
old-time noddies come galloping up.
Red used to be as jealous as a cat and
Amelia won’t stand Red. Sara, unless
Peter has handled her in a way I never
could, is more jealous than Red, and
Baldy always stands nearly on top of a
man. Digger’ll be bound to want to show'
that he hasn’t forgotten how to shake
hands, and Mum’ll lay into the lot of ’em
if they crowd too close, so it looks as if,
when my Akubra gets decorated with a
halo, I’ll be shot into the cooler for
breaking the eternal peace. But perhaps
(hose old prads’ll never get anywhere
near the golden sliprails. After all, by
the way they used to behave on frosty
mornings and the language they made me
use, we’ll probably hold our reunion in a
place where the climate is more like that
where the lot of us were bred.
* ♦ * *
“T.V.”: “Esk D.’s” method of disap-
pointing the bull-ants in his district (B.
28/7/’43) reminds me of Dancing
Charlie. There were five of us camped
together cutting posts in the S.A. mallee
near Wanbi, and some cow brought the
chats with him. One night Charlie went
to bed while the rest of us went on play-
ing crib. After about half an hour he
suddenly sprang clear of the nap, then,
naked in the firelight, began a wild war-
dance. He kept it up at top speed for
perhaps a minute and a half, gave a loud
gasp and stopped as suddenly as he’d
started. By then Mick and Bob had
disappeared into the scrub, and I was
sitting on Charlie’s axe, but Alec wasn’t
worried. “Kill ’em, Chari?” he asked
casually. “Blanky oath,” the dancer re-
plied, crawling into his nap. Then Alec
explained. “It’s an old bush trick,” he
said. “Charlie just waited till the chats
was all feedin’ on him, then he took a
deep breath. ’Course they couldn’t get
away. Then, still holdin’ his wind, he
did a dance—enough t’ get a real good
sweat up. But his pores bein’ closed by
him holdin’ his breath he couldn’t sweat.
When he relaxed like, the juice just
poured out of his skin an’ drowned all
the chats.” Military papers, please copy.
REMEMBER?
Do you remember
How the white tents hugged against the hill
In the green horseshoe hollow?
And how the shells, clean, sea-washed, seemed
to spill
With periwinkles on the shore’s smooth curve
At each high tide?
Do you remember how the headland dipped
Down to the jutting rocks? The glass-clear
pools
Caught ragged shadows of pandanus trees
And sky and cloud-bits;
Small starfish clung, and silk anemones
Waved flaccid petals?
Do you remember how the heath track curled,
Yellow as honey, where the round lagoon
Sipped at its banks? The tree boughs looped
Across its dark tea-brownness?
(At night it looked as though someone had
scooped .
A basin full of moon
And set it, shimmering, in a black-tree ring.)
Do you remember?
Do you remember bottlebrush that furled
Gay, swinging banners in the tough heath
grass?
Do you remember
How the campfire smoke puffed to the skies
In the green horseshoe hollow;
The woodsy smell of burning twigs and cries
Of leatherjackets and black tallawongs
In banksia-trees?
Yes, you remember, and when war is won
We’ll pitch our tent beneath a banksia-tree,
And swim at sunrise in the sleepy bay.
We’ll fish for yabbies in the still lagoon
And walk together on the starry shore,
And while we tread the pathway to the moon
You’ll reach your hand up to the Milky Way
To pluck a string of silver stars for me!
And we will count it dearer than before.
N.S.W.
JOAN MCEWEN.


HL
but civilian requirements of Aus-
tralian-made Radiotrons have not been
neglected. Most widely used types are
available, but if the particular valve you
want is not obtainable, consult your Radio-
tron dealer regarding an alternative type.
RADIOTRON
THE WORLD'S STANDARD RADIO VALVE
AMALGAMATED WIRELESS VALVE CO. PTY. LTD.
Australian, Mercantile, Land & Finance
Company, Limited
(INCORPORATED IN ENGLAND IN 1863)
WOOL, FAT STOCK, STORE AND STUD STOCK,
PRODUCE AND PROPERTY SALESMEN
General Manager for Australia; R. SINCLAIR SMITH.
ADVANCES MADE ON GRAZING PROPERTIES, ON STOCK, AND ON
CONSIGNMENTS OF WOOL, SKINS, HIDES, TALLOW, ETC.
LICENSED AUCTIONEERS, STOCK AND STATION AGENTS.
SYDNEY OFFICE; A. M. MURDOCH, Manager.
ALSO AT MELBOURNE, BRISBANE, NEWCASTLE, WAGGA, HENTY, HAY, MOREE,
TOWNSVILLE, CHARLEVILLE, BUENOS AIRES, LONDON.
GENERAL AGENTS IN NEW SOUTH WALES FOR NORTHERN ASSURANCE CO.. LTD.
CYanogaS
destroys them quickly and easily.
“IT’S the GAS that KILLS them.”
f
CERTAIN DEATH
TO RABBITS
Pump it in with a “Buzacott” Foot Pump Blower—a machine which
makes rabbit destruction a simple, sure and inexpensive operation.
SAVES MANPOWER
Obtainable from
all Storekeepers
throughout Australia.
BUZACOTT-WOLSELEY PTY..LTD.,
7-11 MARKET STREET, SYDNEY.
THE MAN ON
THE LAND
"DON'T WORRY. I'M SENDING IT TO
GRAZCOS."
Branding Wool Bales.
“Jurabuck”: Agree with “Murra-
wong” (B. 18/8/’43) regarding the need
for standardisation of wool descriptions
and branding of bales, but don’t like the
suggestion that “tender fleeces.... could
be designated by the addition of FLC to
the brand.” From time immemorial any
wool branded “Fleece” has been recog-
nised by most buyers as being either
tender or too short in the staple for
ordinary combing, and therefore not
sought.
Many fleeces contain both sound and
tender wool, and where they are placed
with wholly tender fleeces and the lot
branded “Fleece” most buyers will take
it for granted that the whole of the wool
is tender, hence those in the market for
combing wools won’t look at it. But if
the brand “Fleece” is omitted it is always
possible that some buyers when valuing
the lot will strike sound staples ip the
part-tender, part-sound fleeces.
Brands such as “Tender,” “Clothing”
or “Fleece” should never be used. Years
ago I was associated with a Bradford
firm buying combing wools only, and the
young and less experienced valuers on
“star” lots were told by the principal
“not to waste time valuing lots branded
tender, clothing or fleece.” Obviously the
description was sufficient that the wools
were unsuitable.
The day might not be far distant when
normal selling conditions will return. In
branding, the faults of the wool should
not be displayed on the bales or in the
catalogue ; let the buyers find the faults
themselves.
Holding the Soil.
“Danyo”; A few items from the report
of H. Hanslow, chairman of Victorian
Rivers and Water Supply Commission,
who judged the Mallee soil conservation
competitions this year:
Some Mallee farmers, afraid of take-
all getting into the wheat, insist on burn-
ing stubbie. F. J. Hofmaier, of Rosebery,
hasn’t burnt stubble since 1920. He took
10,500 bags off 1000 acres in 1941-42 and
3600 bags from 400 acres last year. He
fears soil-drift much more than take-all
and won’t burn. Before putting a grass
paddock back to wheat, he takes a crop
of oats off it so as to have stubble to
work in when he’s fallowing. He grows
Bencubbin wheat because it leaves a mass
of stubble to plough in.
On one farm was a big hill with a
south-east exposure. The farmer, an
enthusiast for drift-control, said he’d
broken up the bare patches on the hill
in winter and carted stable manure on
to them. The inspection was made in
a south-easterly wind and the hill was
blowing badly. Worked soil was being
carried over the hill, leaving the plough
sole bare; some of the drift had been
caught on the manured patches, but the
drift over the hill had piled up for over
a chain in a neighbor’s stubble and
covered two or three wires of the boun-
dary fence. Thus the fallowing work had
been wasted and the production value of
the land reduced for many years.
There hadn’t been enough straw in the
fallow to hold it. When December rain
fell the farmer was busy harvesting and
“Hey! The O.C. says to quit playing that damn thing and get on
with your sniping!”
wouldn’t stop to work his fallow. If he’d
done so he’d probably have saved his hill.
On another farm the experts had agreed
that the soil wouldn’t drift readily. Last
year a five-bag crop was stripped and
the stubble ploughed in with a mould-
board. Weeds came thick in spring, and,
because there weren’t enough sheep to
eat ’em down, the paddock was harrowed.
Heavy thunderstorms and winds in the
summer caused bad drifting and, short-
handed, the farmer couldn’t stop it. His
mistake was in using the harrows; a
Wimmera scarifier would have been
better.
Light on Lime.
“Pat Ater”: Much doubt concerning
lime needs of acid soils, i.e., those in
heavy rainfall areas, is being dispelled.
Tests show that most vegetable crops
do well in moderately acid to “neutral”
soils and thrive on average lime dressings.
Maximum yields can be expected mostly
from dressings of about 30cwt. to 40cwt.
an acre. This will change a naturally
“very acid” soil (such as most coastal
soils and those under an average annual
rainfall of over 25 inches) into a “slightly
acid,” almost the ideal.
Lime should be added and worked in
preferably a month or so before planting.
Finely-ground limestone or dolomite can
be used. The latter contains magnesium,
usually lacking in sandy soils. If freshly-
slaked or hydrated lime is used, only half
the foregoing quantity is necessary. That
means, in smaller lots, about 11b. of
ground limestone or i-lb. of hydrated lime
to each square yard.
With these tests, others, under artificial
drainage conditions, have shown how
quickly heavy rainfall washes lime out of
light or sandy soils. Drainage water and
subsequent soil tests for acidity about
Gosford (N.S.W.) after the heavy
May rains (17 inches) showed that lime
added to the soil only a couple of months
previously at the rate of a ton to the
acre was washed right through and lost.
Magnesium, too, went out in volume with
the rain water. Lack of this important
element causes citrus failures. Dolomite
will supply both it and lime if applied
regularly.
The lessons from this are that lime
applied “light and often” is best. Very
heavy dressings are not required. Some
crops, such as swedes, resent them. Po-
tatoes are best in slightly, or more, acid
soils owing to the common scab disease
which lime may foster. Onions give of
their best only in well-limed soil. Peas
and beans will not give maximum yields
in a very acid soil. Commercial growers
can have their soils tested for acidity,
without charge, by State Agricultural
Departments.
Navy Beans.
“H.C.”: October’s the best month to
sow them in high inland districts, Decem-
ber for irrigation areas. Granite loams
and red and medium heavy soils suit
them ; heavy clay soils produce stains if
harvesting weather is wet. Don’t use
positions subject to frosts. Climatic re-
quirements are a frost-free period of 120
days, fair rainfall and dry harvest
months.
Plough and leave in the rough till well
into spring. Then work fine and, if
rolling is done, harrow afterwards. Use
a grain drill or two-row maize planter
for sowing. Space the rows 28in. apart
and allow Sin. to 4in. between seed in
the rows. This uses 301 b. of seed an
acre. Put of super, per acre
through the fertiliser box.
Wait till the pods turn yellow but be-
fore they’re fully dry to harvest. Later
there’ll be shattering or brittle, cracked
beans. Best grades for canning are bright,
white and free from chips or stains.
Little Navy is the best canner, Mitchelite
runner-up.
Yearly seed selection is needed to keep
up production. Choose plants that have
caught your eye for yield, early maturity,
uniform ripening, freedom from disease
and small, even seed. Sow this seed in
plots on its own and in turn; keep the
best of its seed for improved stock. Navy
beans make a good rotation. The straw
is valuable as roughage for cattle and
sheep.
Hints for the Farm.
“Merrileugh”; To get the best results
from legumes as a green manure you
must have nodules of nitrogen-fixing bac-
teria growing on the roots. Such bac-
teria require a trace of boron (borax)
in the soil if they are to grow and do
their good work. Dissolve the borax in
water and water down the row before
planting the treated seed. About 101 b.
to the acre is enough ; more will damage
the legumes.
“Jack Point”: Check cannibalism in
chicks by keeping a close watch and
removing the first pickers. Injured chicks
can be treated with stock tar or other
suitable antiseptic. Feeding of whole
oats and salt—a tablespoon to each gallon
of drinking water left for half a day and
repeated in three days’ time—often helps.
In a bad outbreak the salt may be
spread as a very thin layer on top of the
mash and repeated two or three times.
“Bundalinga”: Our State Departments
of Agriculture have neglected soya-bean,
which offers possibilities as great in this
country as in other parts of the world.
It may be necessary for plant-breeders
to evolve varieties to suit our various
soils and climates, and extensive trials
will be necessary. There is already a
good market for soya-bean products in
Australia, and that market is bound to
increase.
“Kiwi”: When the O.K. Jersey stud
of A. E. Watkins, Takanini, Maoriland,
was auctioned late in May, 436 head of
cattle averaged Signs, each, and made
the record figure of 22,182gn5. The senior
sire. Lobelia Palatine Sultan (imp.), an
unbeaten show champion, was bought by
C. J. Lovegrove, of Tamaki, Auckland,
for lOOOgns. Other high averages were:
Seven stud bulls, 263|gns.; 37 two-year-
old bulls, 60Jgns.; and 68 bull calves
at 53gns. each. Over 1000 breeders from
both islands were present. Watkins, now
in his 75th year, is one of those who
helped Maoriland earn the title “Stud
Farm of the Southern Hemisphere.”


mHAPS *>ULL WANT
AN EXt RA ROOM
PS?
H
The family has
been growing up during the
war years . . . and when peace comes you’ll he
busy fixing that extra accommodation which you can’t
build now because the exigencies of war must first be
met. But with the coming of peace you’ll be able to put
your plans into effect —with Masonite. That’s the ideal
material for modernising the house, building additions
economically and easily.
PLAN FOR 1T...
SA VE FOR IT*..
AND BUILD IT WITH
0
MASONITE PRESDWOOD ...TEMPERED PRESDWOOD.. .TEMPRTILE... QUARTRBOARD DE LUXE
Manufactured by MASONITE CORPORATION (AUST.) LTD. from wood fibre.
Disf ributors; THE COLONIAL SUGAR REFINING CO. LTD.
(Building Materials Division)
SYDNEY . . . MELBOURNE . . . BRISBANE . . . ADELAIDE . . . PERTH
★INVEST YOUR SAVINGS IN WAR BONDS FOR POST-WAR USE
a MT S
LYS
ft
PROOF
100% Australian-made
from Australian Material
Wire Netting
Wire Nails
Our Netting and Other Products are
known throughout the Commonwealth
as of the highest standard.
LOOK for Our MARKER in
every Roll of Netting .
LYSAGHTS
Fencing Wire
m
■ i -i *
. - <.
.
m
r " . r
■
X, ■» '
,i -
’* tV
ESTABLISHED 1884
Barbed Wire
Zinc Oxide
QUALITY GUARANTEED.
Obtainable from all the Leading
Merchants, Storekeepers and Agents.
Lysaght Bros. & Co. Pty., Ltd
Head Office: 17-19 Bridge Street, Sydney.
SPECIFY "IYSAGHT'S" WIR E, WIRE NETTING. ETC.
UNCABLED ADDITIONS
Germans Were There.
(Extract from an article by London Times
Moscow correspondent.)
After nearly two years of the Soviet-
German war one is accustomed to a chill
apprehension of calamity on entering
any zone of German occupation, but
Vyazma’s fate surpasses all else. Here
was a town, where 60,000 people had
lived, totally abolished —not in battle, not
by bomb or shell as Stalingrad, Voro-
nezh and Sevastopol, but at the hands of
German demolition squads destroying
according to schedule.
The Germans cynically left more or
less intact the cathedral, a tall and beau-
tiful building whose tulip-domed towers
now stand aloft above the havoc. The
spires of others of Vyazma’s many
churches which proved too solid for Ger-
man mines point blunted fingers to the
heavens.
Vyazma’s present inhabitants, about
one-tenth of the original numbers, are
living in holes in the ground, in shelters
made of birch poles and pine boughs, in
shacks roughly constructed with rusty
sheets of tin hammered flat or from the
remains of German motor-cars.
Destruction by such means leaves a
very different picture from that of a town
devastated by bombing, for in each build-
ing the explosive force came from within,
completely shattering ceilings and roofs,
flinging the remains of furniture out-
wards so that one saw none of the
familiar scenes of buildings skinned by
blast of a single wall, none of those cor-
ners of buildings which after air raids
freakishly escape destruction. This was
a city wflich had been flung into the air
by a series of fearful convulsions, whose
pulverised remains left but little clue to
their original appearance.
U.S. Post-war Co-operation.
(N.Y. “Times” is hopeful.)
The American people stand today more
united in their desire for international
co-operation than ever in the past. All
surveys and tests of public opinion are
proof of this.
A recent survey by the Twentieth Cen-
tury Fund came to the conclusion that
what the American people want as their
general post-war objectives are economic
stability and national prosperity within
a workable system of collective security
and revived international trade.
The latest Gallup survey on the specific
issues of whether the United States
should take an active role in the post-
war world and join with others in setting
up machinery to enforce peace further
revealed that there are no substantial
regional differences of opinion regarding
these questions, and that the “isolationist”
vote ranges from only 9 p.c. in New
England to 18 p.c. in the Eastern Central
States, The picture of an isolationist
Middle West is shown to be an optical
illusion created by a few of its isolationist
leaders. Now even these leaders are be-
ginning to change their views. Senator
Robert A. Taft, frequently ocnsidered to
be one of them, has come out for “co-
operation with all other nations in the
most practical plan to prevent future
wars” —even to the point of American
commitments to use force against inter-
national aggression where an interna-
tional body has found it to exist.
Inasmuch as the United States will
probably emerge from this war as the
most powerful nation in the world eco-
nomically and militarily, these senti-
ments of the American people are of the
'utmost importance to the future not only
of America but also of the world.
Fed-up with De Gaulle.
(From a report by N.Y. “Times” Washing-
ton correspondent Harold Callender .)
In the opinion of high American offi-
cials General de Gaulle is less interested
in helping to win the war than in advanc-
ing his personal political fortunes on the
apparent assumption that the war will be
won in any case. To this end he has made
difficulties for the British in Syria and
has sought to play Britain and the United
States against each other, according to
authoritative British testimony.
In both London and Washington
General de Gaulle is regarded, by some
who have known him, as animated by
dictatorial tendencies. As to the reports
of Frenchmen of both groups that he
has made a deep impression on French
youth in North Africa, the comment here
is that the reason is that he personifies
the Fascistic impulses that were working
among many French youths before the
war.
Roosevelt and Churchill are known to
have pronounced views and feelings on
the subject and are understood to be in
accord in their conclusions. It is recalled
that the President made an unsuccessful
effort at Casablanca last January to re-
concile General de Gaulle and General
Giraud, and it is reported that he then
discovered the exalted conception of him-
self that-is officially believed here to be
the principal motive of General de
Gaulle,
The view emphatically expressed here
is that there will be no French sovereignty
save as a result of an Allied victory in
this war ; and the complaint that, in see ic-
ing that victory, the Allies have infringed
French rights provokes in official quar-
ters here feelings that go far beyond an-
noyance. The expectation is that the
French, without exception, should do
their utmost to further the Allied war
effort instead of objecting to the protec-
tive measures applied on French soil.
It was once suspected here that General
de Gaulle was under British influence that
might complicate our relations with
France after the war. But those suspi-
cions have been largely allayed by the
attitude of those Britons who say that
General de Gaulle has left a trail ot
Anglophobia behind him in Syria and
North Africa and by the fact that the
British Government now fully supports
American policy in North Africa and
apparently shares the official American
view.
Lone Wolves of the R.A.F.
(From a “Saturday Evening Post" article by
Jack Alexander, with the R.A.F.)
Late in 1940, when the Germans were
mass-raiding London by night and the
British were trying to repay the horror
in kind, a new marauding tactic in aerial
warfare came quietly into being. It was
an intimate, cosy form of homicide in
the dark.
The Royal Air Force, which originated
it, politely called it “intruding.” The Luft-
waffe, making haste to imitate it, wrapped
it up in a long, sausage-like package:
“ klebefiugzeugfiiegen.”
The manoeuvre capitalised on the
attractive vulnerability of bombers after
they had returned from the night’s mis-
sion and were circling over their home
airdromes. A squadron of bombers takes
a long time to sit down. To avoid col-
lisions, they must circle at different levels
while the control-tower gives them the
signal to descend one at a time. Their
landing lights are on and the airdrome
itself is illuminated.
The intruder ’plane usually took off
while the raid on its own territory was
at its height. Travelling alone, it sped
across the Channel, timing its arrival over
the enemy airdrome to coincide with that
of the homeward-bound bombers. As
one R.A.F. pilot describes the final
humiliation of the bomber pilot, “He’d
dropped his cookies and had slipped
safely through the ack-ack barrage. He
was mighty glad to get home, and he was
all hot for his flight supper. Then some
dirty cad would sneak in and take a
squirt at him.”
The man who supplies this salty
description of the tactic’s climax is
Squadron-Leader Kendrick H. Salusbury-
Hughes, and he delivers it with the hearty
relish of one who is in the habit of dining
excellently on Huns. Salusbury-Hughes
is one of the leading practitioners of the
blood-chilling art of intruding. At this
writing he has completed 35 sorties, a,nd
has received the Distinguished Flying
Cross. No one could look less like the


MR
JOBS
■ 'O-
-
m
m
%
W
THE LAP?
OF THE LAMP....
in these nights of War she carries a a
Eve ready in the E/e/d dospifai up fronf.
Make it one of your war jobs
to *SAYE your
Eveready Flashlight Batteries
Eveready is in heavy demand by the Fight-
ing Services. * All flashlight batteries last
longer if you use them in short flashes
instead of leaving them switched on for
minutes at a time.
f
EVE READY
TRADE-MARK
The Extra Long Life Battery
S - : W
. ■v-v't;
-I.
5^
-r-vs
iX\;‘:
AV-V
r v V-<:
'vi
S|^
>5
=S
3c
: 'oV"^
;jpppSP^
,-C:
<O7/
Australia’s safety . . .
Allied victory . . . depends on
winning and holding mastery of
the air. To this end. de Havilland is
devoting all its experience
and energy to building aircraft worthy
of the shill and daring of the
Empire Air Forces.
DH3
de Havilland
AIRCRAFT PTY. LTD. - SYDNEY
typical R.A.F. pilot. He is of medium
height and has a large nose and a
swarthy complexion. He wears broad
reddish mustachios which curl up fero-
ciously at the ends. They give him the
appearance of being a successful pirate,
and, in a sense, he is.
“I am very excitable,” he says frankly,
“When I am chasing a Hun I bounce up
and down on the seat and bay like a
beagle until I can get him in my sights.
Then I squirt. If he catches fire or ex-
plodes I cheer and yell ‘Sieg heil!’ All
this time I am scared to death. I must
say that I get a certain thrill out of
terror. But the real thrill comes when
you get home safely. It is a wonderful
feeling. I guess the process is something
like beating yourself on the head with a
club so that you can appreciate the con-
trast when you quit.”
Because an intruder ’plane is a night-
roaming lone wolf its pilot must have
unusually good eyesight, a love of pok-
ing his nose into trouble and the fighting
temperament of a throat-slitting Apache,
A sense of malicious mischief helps, too ;
for, after completing his primary mission,
which is well planned in advance, he is
expected to go “rhubarbing” until his
ammunition is used up.
Rhubarbing, a term of mysterious ori-
gir|, is slang for being a general nuisance
—sweeping the countryside at low level
on sheer speculation, bombing and spray-
ing bullets into stray sentries, factories,
railway trains, barges and any other un-
suspecting target that presents itself.
Train-busting is one of the most satisr
fying subordinate phases of intruding.
It creates picturesque destruction as loco-
motive boilers erupt in great clouds of
vapor, ammunition cars blast skyward,
and assorted units of precious rolling-
stock topple down embankments. The
pilot has his mischief, and the enemy’s
lifeline suffers a haemorrhage. The true
intruder scorns heavy bomber work as
being too impersonal. He is essentially
an individualist who insists upon seeing
the damage he is doing.
-
Fine Work of the Swiss.
(Condensed from a “Saturday Evening Post”
article by Marquis W. Childs.)
Other people make wars and the’Swiss
pick up the pieces. Of the 4,300,000 in-
habitants of the beleaguered island that is
Switzerland today at least one-third must
be engaged, directly or indirectly, in good
works for a broken and battered world,
They have managed to bring French,
Belgian and Dutch children into Switzer-
land for a three months’ rehabilitation
period. Swiss nurses and doctors have
gone into dangerously infected war zones
to do what they could,
Most important of all, Switzerland,
through the International Red Cross
Committee at Geneva, is a connecting
link between war prisoners and home. In
the Central Information Bureau for
Prisoners of War in Geneva more than
12,000,000 index cards are on file,
On an average day 60,000 letters come
in to be sent on.
After the fall of Guam the bureau
received one of the longest cables in its
history. The Japanese military had turned
over to the Japanese Red Cross a list of
the American prisoners taken on Guam,
They had used Japanese characters to
spell out phonetically American names.
The result was that a common name such
as Robert White appeared like this:
RO HO
BA WA
TO HI
. . .
0 B £ l these names back into some
£ eco Bms8 msa ble semblance of their original
a heroic undertaking,
„ tas^s °f the International
*\ ed F r ° ss 15 to supervise the exchange
° seri ° us Jy wounded or sick prisoners of
war ’ an exchange on a large scale
° C between the British
an T , me Italians.
a §f eed that the exchange
T ou ! d ta hf p ac{ r m Smyrna. But before
he two hospital ships started for the
exchange port Swiss doctors were
a PPOi n ted to make sure that all the terms
lived up to by both sides,
e , °t the work, of course, is
carr ‘ ed on m Switzerland. In Berne and
Geneva is the elaborate mechanism
which track is kept of the mil-
lions of men who today must live behind
barbed wire.
One of the big jobs is to forward the
gift boxes that come in from all over the
world for clearance through Geneva. In-
spection, recording and transhipment
take thousands of hours each month. In
Red Cross warehouses mountainous piles
of packages, the contents of each one
written on the package in accord with
the restrictions prescribed by the country
holding the prisoners, are moved on their
way.
Every possible effort is made to avoid
mistakes, but sometimes the tangle is too
much. Photostatic copies are made at
Geneva of prisoners’ lists received. But
often the lists are inadequate. This was
particularly true of the native Africans,
the Senegalese, taken by the Germans at
the time of the fall of France. African
names have a distracting sameness, so
that making out separate index cards is
a difficult chore. And the only address
given in many instances is that of the
village or community, often impossible
to place on the map. International Red
Cross reports on such prisoners are read
aloud by professional letter-writers in
village after village until the wife or
mother is finally found or until the paper
itself is worn out.
Dragnet Digest.
(Condensed from various acknowledged
sources .)
In one field German efficiency stands unsur-
passed in this and any previous age. That is
the field of loot and plunder. According to the
Board of Economic Warfare, the Germans, up
to the end of 1941, looted Europe of no less
than $36,000,000,000, and are now looting at
the rate of tens of billions of dollars a year.
They have stolen and shipped to Germany in-
dustrial machinery, raw materials, scientific
equipment, horses, cattle, sheep and pigs; they
have stripped public and private art collec-
tions of their treasures to adorn their palaces;
they have filched office furniture, park
benches and garden tools, food, soap, clothing
and shoes; they have even pilfered the hinges
from doors and windows. For magnitude and
ruthlessness the German looting of occupied
Europe surpasses all previous conquests in his-
tory. Attila was a piker by comparison. For
the Germans have not only seized everything
they could move; they have likewise seized
everything they could not move by simply taking
over title to the property. Through outright
confiscation and intricate financial jugglery, the
German Government or German banks, cartels
and holding companies under its control today
own almost everything worth owning in the line
of industrial and financial enterprise in con-
quered Europe.— N.Y. “Times.”
* * >i! *
The British Labor party does not believe
that the blood shed by French Socialists or
Communists or by the Red Army relieves the
Communist party of Great Britain or the
Communist International of their share of re-
sponsibility for the breakdown of democratic
government and the extension of Fascist and
Nazi rule. In any case, the Communist party
ot Great Britain continues its work of intrigue
within the ranks of the Labor party and the
trade-unions. The Labor party cannot believe
that the Communist party’s intentions towards
British Labor are any more honest now than in
the days when Britain stood alone against
Nazi and Fascist aggression.— British Labor
party secretary J. S. Middleton in a letter to
Communist secretary Harry Pollitt.
* * * *
There is a lot of rubbish being uttered about
war breaking down the moral inhibitions of
civilians, that theft, rape, murder, “mugging,”
etc., are on the increase because war gives us
the green light to become savages again. My
opinion, based on observation, is that anyone
who commits a crime today is a criminal under
all circumstances. These born criminals are
always looking for some excuse to “break
loose.” 1 do not believe that those who have
never desired to murder, rape or steal will
murder, rape or steal merely because there is
a war going on. Character is inherent and
unalterable. The increase of crime today is
merely the bad gone rotten —Benjamin DeCas-
seres; N.Y. “Journal-American.”
:Jc
Today Washington is the strategy capital of
the world. The British come here for ships and
'planes and food. The Russians come here for
’planes and food and war materials of all kinds.
American factories are supplying not only
American forces, but the forces of Britain and
Russia and Australia and China and India.
More than 1,000,000 American fighting men are
ready for action at air, navy and army bases
deployed around the globe. So great is Ameri-
can strength that much of the world is won-
dering how this strength will be used, once the
wars are won. A procession of foreign mis-
sions is moving through Washington as nations
seek to find from this country some cue to its
post-war attitude. They reflect the belief of
much of the world that, as the U.S. goes, so
will go the world. — “United States News.”
* * * *
Considered purely from the point of view of
transportation, it is highly improbable that
Soviet armies could advance rapidly into
central Europe unless there is a complete col-
lapse of German military might. It is a
matter of railroads and a matter of gauge.
Russian railroads have a five-foot gauge. The
railroads of central and of most of western
Europe use the 4ft. gauge. The Nazi
rail arm has converted more than 15,000 miles
of Russian track to standard gauge, and the
difference is one of the most serious
obstacles on Stalin’s way west and Hitler’s
most effective defence. It was relatively easy
for the Nazis to advance along the Russian
wide-gauge tracks. With characteristic thorough-
ness the German rail arm, long before the war,
had been equipped specially for such an offen-
sive. The Germans had a reserve of several
thousand freight cars and locomotives with
adjustable axles which could be used until the
Russian gauge had been narrowed to standard
width. They also had efficient motor transpor-
tation. — Paul Wohl; N.Y. “Herald Tribune.”


mf oe
WORRIES
0
Try the new Roussel Rupture Appliance Free.
Enables you to do the hardest work with com-
fort and security. Definitely holds, a condition
absolutely necessary for possible improvement
or recovery. Recommended by Doctors every-
where. Satisfaction guaranteed no matter
where you live. Send for details, self measure-
ment form, testimonials and 14 days’ free trial
offer. No obligation.
THE ROUSSEL, APPLIANCE CO.,
(Dept. 27), 9 Martin Place, Sydney.
For Australia at War . . .
QYe
LATHES . . . CAPSTAN TURRET LATHES
SHAPING, MILLING and PLANING
MACHINES .... BORING MILLS
MACHINE-CUT GEARS for the Trade
*
MARS MACHINE TOOL Manfg. Go.
Pty. Ltd. Bridge Street, Valley, Brisbane
ƒf
OVER 7,000,000 PEOPLE
back the security of your War
Loan Bonds
No other investment can possibly be so secure as
the money you lend to Australia. Its repayment is
guaranteed by the Commonwealth. Every penny you
put in, Australia guarantees to return to you, plus
good interest.
But what is the Commonwealth of Australia? Sure
enough, it’s the land and natural wealth, the build-
ings and the institutions of the country. But, most
of all, it’s the people—over 7,000,000 of them—
for the business of Australia is the business of every
citizen.
So, when Australia says "Lend to me now, and I
will repay you,” it is a promise made by every mem-
ber of the community to every other member, and
backed by the whole wealth of the nation.
Therefore, keep on buying War Savings Certifi-
cates from any Bank or Money Order Post Office
or make an advance subscription now, to the Fourth
Liberty Loan, through any Bank or Stockbroker.
LE. 1.19
10 for 1/1
20 for 2/2
they never vary
i
Carreras Ltd.-154 Years’ Reputation for Quality
Save - or Slave. Put
all you've got into £lO
National Savings Bonds.
5063 B
SERVICE DEPARTMENT.
Wants.
To buy old-time theatrical magazines such as
“Variety,” the “Stage,” “Footlights,” “Stage-
land,” the “Theatre.”—3380.
To buy complete tile of The Bulletin up to
the end of 1920. —3381.
Information Sought.
Are borers grubs or beetles? Would they
crawl out of one piece of furniture on to an-
other? Will they attack oak or silky-oak.
Borers are usually regarded as the larvae or
grubs of certain beetles and moths that tunnel
in wood. Damage is done in the grub stage,
and after pupation the adult beetle makes its
way out of the wood to mate. The larvae do
not move from one piece of furniture to an-
other. The best-known borers of furniture are
the powder-post beetle and the furniture beetle.
Both are known to attack oak and the formei
also attacks silky-oak. (See Insect Pest leaflet
No. 21 issued by the N.S.W. Department of
Agriculture.)
*
(1) Would a change of climate and food bring
about psoriasis? (2) Would a return to
previous location help a cure ? (3) Does the
disease have an adverse effect on general
health ? (4) Treatment ?
(1) There is no doubt that the seasons and
the climate have an important influence on the
production of psoriasis; for instance, the dis-
ease is uncommon in the tropics. But as y°u
say nothing about the climate in your neighbor-
hood it is impossible to give detailed advice.
(2) Yes, for the reason that you could be given
expert medical care. (3) The disease, if long
continued, as it usually is, has almost always a
depressing effect upon the general health and
mental outlook. (4) All that can be safely
said is that during acute stages rest in bed is
essential for three or four weeks. Local treat-
ment begins with the softening and removal of
the scales by applications of salicylated olive
oil. This is usually followed by the use of weak
chrysarobin ointment, which is gradually in-
creased in strength. Many other forms of
treatment, including X-rays, the mercury vapor
lamp and various arsenical preparations are
frequently employed.
* * * *
I recently heard over the wireless that quartz
crystals were of high value. Any information
available as to type wanted?
To be of value for piezo-electric work a
quartz crystal should be at least 3in. to 4in. in
diameter, preferably at least 21b. in weight,
flawless and crystal-clear. The value will de-
pend entirely upon conformity to these require-
ments. For advice on this point and possible
markets apply to the offices of the Ministry
of Munitions in your State.
* * * *
Information on killing rabbits by fumigation ?
Gases chiefly employed are carbon bisulphide,
carbon monoxide and hydrocyanic-acid gas. A
pump is used to force the gas into the burrow.
Special pumping machines are made for use
with carbon bisulphide or calcium cyanide (to
produce hydrocyanic-acid gas). Carbon mon-
oxide and similar gases are produced by the
burning of straw or any vegetable rubbish, and
the smoke and gases drawn off from the burning
material, carried on a specially constructed
machine, are forced into the burrow by an
attached pump and a length of hosepipe. The
same gases can be made by using exhaust
fumes from a car, conveyed into the burrow by
means of a piece of hosepipe attached to the
exhaust. To do this job systematically a pack
of dogs should be employed driving the rabbits
underground, and surface rabbit harbor de-
stroyed to give the rabbit no cover except in
the burrows. These should then be taken one
by one and fumigation commenced by intro-
ducing the hosepipe into one or more openings
of each burrow, closing up the others when
smoke issues from them. Then the last open-
ings are closed and the burrows left. Each
day look to see if any burrows in the part
already treated have been opened up, and, if
so, they should be re-treated or traps set. A
few traps will assist in reducing the rabbits
missed.
Brief Answers.
A.W.: (1) No dyes at present available. (2)
Formulas for proprietary lines are the property
of the manufacturers... .T.L.G.; Statements
attributed to W. M. Hughes when he was a
member of the Labor party were published in
B. 14/4/’43 F.L.S.: Fibro sheets are made
in that size. If suitably supported by battens one
of these would make an excellent ping-pong
table C.M.: Population of Buenos Aires
on January 1, 1941, was 2,505,332 K.P.:
Kitchener entered the Army in 1871, died in
1916 T.M.S.; Thermo-electric currents re-
sult from heating or cooling two or more dis-
similar metals at the point of union W.A.:
Peanuts will thrive on a large variety of soils,
ranging from light sandy loams to dark medium
heavy clays. Whatever the soil, it must be
well drained.
Answers to Correspondents
Name and address must appear on the MS. No
liability is undertaken re contributions voluntarily
submitted; and no MS. will he returned unless
stamps accompany. MS. should be addressed to
the Editor.
The Muse aroused;
Amar:
In this age of total war
Man’s brain is used as ne’er before.
V.G.L.: No real creation of character in it.
. ...J.E.C.: Try again with something less
melodramatic... .H.A.8.; Comedy treated too
seriously... .P. 8.: Startlingly unoriginal....
J. MacD.: Glad you broke old Jack’s neck;
but he’ll probably continue to drop in once a
week W.K.: Flimsy R.L.: Write about
the life you know J.E.S.; An asthmatic
Pomeranian would be ashamed of a wow as
feeble as that J.W.; Stock characters,
stock situation J.T.; Leave it to service men.
D.A.W.: The bone is pointed at all abos.
who point the bone at hulking brutes called
Big Jim A. 0.: Long-winded and mechani-
cal.... T.F.: So sketchy that it hardly exists.
A.B.: Have little affection for the “infi-
nitely forlorn and wretched” type of story.
S.D.C.: Too thin, too obvious....
C.G.M.: Apparently the horsemen have “riot-
ing tresses and soft, heaving flanks”
L.L.: Patch the last line and try elsewhere
W.A.H.: Standard pioneer pome.... A.S.:
Featherweights... .P.F.: Just a thought
E.A.S.: Can’t recall seeing it elsewhere ; though
of course, the Lady and the Fool are stock
characters... .J.McL.: “A fact which often
folk enrages.” Verse for such inversions no
excuse is A.R.G.: “The Favorite” comes the
nearest... .M.T.D.: Nothing to distinguish ’em
from many others on the same themes....
C.L.T.: Conversation with the mountain is
without conviction... .G. 8.: If it’s going to
make you rhyme “home” and “poem you
should try to refrain from becoming a grand-
father... .8.H.: Well done, especially the end-
ing; but dated in manner and diction... .R.H.:
Doesn’t sound convincing J.L.; If you
wouldn’t use “caparisoned,” “clamant’ and
“benison” in prose, don’t use ’em in verse....
C.N.L.; Sunsets are hard work 0.W.: No
good expecting a bird to take any notice of
a command to “Stay!”... .F.8.R.: Hardly to
be compared with Tennyson on the Duke ot
Wellington F.L.N.: Might score elsewhere.
S.F.; Ballads about funny dreams are in-
variably on the feeble side G.0.T.: “Ex-
planation it gives.” Rejection it receives....
L.A.M.: Only a Mother’s Love could forgive
you for it.... R.H.: “Half-hearted curses in
shapeless verses”... J. 5.8.: Come again with a
less-magazinish p10t... .J.A.H.: A good comedy
pumped up into skittish farce.


fOMK TUNSMMOW
PROBLEM
L UO OWICI S
have the answer
Illustrating
the LUDOWICI
PIVOT DRIVE
DEHIND the fine quality and the assurance of maximum efficiency in
Ludowici Power Transmission Equipment, stand Ludowici Technicians
men whose knowledge and experience of every power transmission re-
quirement enable them to give a ready answer to your particular problem.
Our reputation has been built on our willingness to give an unbiassed
opinion and to recommend and supply the most suitable equipment for
each power transmission application.
You have only to ask for our advice to have it freely given.
J. G. LUDOWICI & SON LTD.
112 YORK STREET, SYDNEY
€> -Wk
COUPLINGS
SHAFTING
GEARS & HANGERS
%
Luoowicrs
POWER
TRANSMISSION
EQUIPMENT
caJlc tucdi /
aM&Pt&mtj ZfOzJi
iacfar 2£rM 7/OU
aM &te TtxzmS a/ytctf
&mg &m£ & c&m£.
ƒ
F
you fiave an 'His Master’s Voice” radio
set you are fortunate. To-day, the output of
these receivers is prohibited. Your dealer is
well placed to keep your present set in good
working order make use of his service
facilities.* As soon as production is possible
new His Master’s Voice receivers will bring
you the latest advances in radio.
ifour
fn
most
R
A
D
O
* If you are experiencing difficulty in obtaining service for your
‘His Master’s Voice” receiver, you are invited to write direct to:—
THE GRAMOPHONE COY. LTD.
(Inc. in England)
HOMEBUSH N.S.W.
R.70/42
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
Csoldsbrough, Mort and Co., Ltd.
Net
Earn- Debenture
Mar., ings. Interest. Dividend. Reserves.
£ £ £ £
To contingency reserve, £420,000 -. 1,653,371
1933 139,538 62,553 2i p.c. = 60,000 1,670,356
Reserves disappear, £20,000 ..1,650,356
J 934 258,384 62,553 6 p.c. = 144,000 1,702,187
1935 160,741 62,553 6 „ „ 141,000 1,656,375
1936 237,467 62,552 7 „ ~ 168,000 1,663,292
1937 259,221 62,552 8 „ ~ 192.000 1,667,961
1938 243,859 62,516 7 „ „ 168.000 1,681,304
Special tax provision, £38,000 .. 1,643,304
Surplus sale investments, £1630 ..1,644,940
Goodwill new businesses, £21.657 .. 1,623,283
1939 178,024 62,500 4L p.c. = 108,000 1,630,807
Added goodwill, £4lOO .. ..1.626,707
1940 260,096 62.499 6f p.c. = 156,000 1,668,304
Net addition goodwill, £6OO ..1,667,704
1941 240,007 62,349 7 p.c. = 168,000 1,677,362
.Net addition goodwill, £1524 .. 1,675,838
1942 194,224 62,297 5 p.c. = 120,000 1,687,765
Net addition goodwill, £7 .. .. 1,687,758
1943 210,068 62,297 6 p.c. = 144,000 1,691,529
Second-largest thing of its kind in
Australia, this big woolbroking, pastoral,
pastoral - finance, merchandising and
agency business has wide connections in
all States, being strongest in N. S. Wales,
where it is also a large run-owner. So
earnings are subject to a wide range of
influences, including seasons, prices, costs
and, of course, the multitude of eco-
nomic restrictions imposed by the Gov-
ernment for war purposes.
Excepting a dry spell in some parts
early last term, the season was favorable
in all States, including Westralia, where
run-owners had been hit hard by drought
for several years in succession. Yet the
co. received 3800 fewer bales, partly
because a bale now contains more wool
than formerly and partly because early
shearings occasioned by zoning affected
the volume of some clips, including those
from the co.’s own properties:
r Bales— >, Australian
Year to Carry Average
Mar. 31, Received. Sold, etc. Forward, per Bale, t
1934.. 295,416 318,035 8,128 £2O 4 5
1935.. 307,648 253,841 61,935 12 13 4
1936.. 306,777 358,232* 10,480 17 12 3
1937.. 301.598 292,873 10,205 20 14 2
1938. . 314,078 257,889 76,304 15 15 3
1939.. 302,563 351,791 26,166 13 4 0
1940.. 382,132 380,422 27,876 17 18 01
1941.. 389,541 402,273 15,144 17 12 01
1942.. 391,000 383,259 22,820 17 14 01
1943.. 387,200 385,985 24,069
* Includes 25,525 bales burnt and appraised,
t For year to June 30. 1 Approximate.
Still, an extra 2726 bales were disposed
of, thus reducing, the carry-forward, and
there was a 15 p.c. lift —from 13.4 d. to
15.4 d. per pound—in the British contract
price for the staple. Australia’s wool
cheque (£73,252,000) was £7,678,000
more than its immediate predecessor.
What the British contract means to Aus-
tralian growers can be judged also from
the fact that appraised value of last
season’s clip was £6,874,000 short of the
full contract figure. Another factor which
helped to bump up the co.’s turnover to
a record of more than £15,000,000 was
an active stock market which also syn-
chronised with high prices.
Despite lower earnings from a reduced
volume of advances, due to the favorable
combination of both seasons and prices
and to restricted expenditure on upkeep
and improvement of properties* mainly
owing to man-power and material short-
ages, the board Was able to show
£72,984 more gross earnings. That was
aitei making an unspecified provision for
bad debts, etc. Disregarding £22,000
.arrears of taxation charges against 1942
.earnings, the 1943 bill (£129,027) was
£33,095 heavier. Trading exes. (£595,366)
were up £24,452, allowance for depre-
ciation (£49,634) was £773 less, and an
extra £366 (£10,158 altogether) was sent
to staff provident fund. After clipping-
off £62,297 for debenture interest (shown
m the introductory table), the net amount
available for shareholders was £l5 844
stronger at £147,771, equal to 6.1 p.c.’ on
paid capital as against 5.5, 7.4 and
8.2 p.c. for the three preceding terms.
A point was added to the div., making it
6 p.c., the average over the last decade
being 6.3 p.c.
The solid financial structure and other
things are reflected in the next table:
1938. 1941. 1942. 1943.
Capital . . 2,400,000 2,400,000 2,400,000 2,400,000
Debentures . 1.417,702 1,412 580 1 419 530 i 419 kqa
Creditors . . 855’,092 ’ssi’joo 694,173 ’Si'll?
lax reserve 27,829 105,413 167,441 1U,915
Liquids . . 481,214 790,048 946,370 1,641 657
Advances . , 4,751,588 4,821,102 4,006,841 3,631!542
Stocks .. 102.007 247,533 221,484 211 992
Shares .. 43,208 44,121 45,310 45,406
Prop ty, etc. 1,102,902 1,132,172 1,120,476 I,OM Olfe
Plant • • 74,488 96,825 93,434 83,085
High prices, a good season, prompt
settlements, restricted expenditure, etc.,
again show up in the contraction of
£375,499 in advances and expansion of
£695,287 in liquids. Of the £695,287,
£506,000 went into Government war
loans, making a total of £860,000 so sub-
scribed since war began. When the
books last closed, the co. was holding
355. 2d. in liquids for every pound com-
ing to trade creditors. The debenture
debt and amount reserved for the tax-
gatherer together were more than twice
covered by advances alone. The co. is
excellently equipped to come to the assis-
1 tance of clients when the time arrives,
as surely it will.
When war requirements allow the
man-power and material problem to
ease there will be a heavy call for money
to make good neglected improvements
and for eradication of pests. What post-
war conditions in the wool trade will be
remain to be seen. Much will depend
upon the plan for release of surplus
British and American stocks of the
staple, and upon the level of production
costs in Australia. Meanwhile, seasonal
and other conditions which helped to
bump up this co.’s earnings last term
cannot be expected to long continue so
favorable.
Bankers and Traders' Insurance Co.
”
March, Surplus. Ditidends. Reserves. Reserves.*
!«.. ujSbi 7 p.c. = At
1934.. 12,469 7„ „ 6568 5,901 103 879
ISIS;; ISSS I: : SS?} ,!•*“, U|«
1937.. 13,910 7 „ „ 6662 1 7[ltl illlcs
1938. 22,746 7„ „ 6662 16,084 i45;047
■■ liW
1940 To cmiiiugcrioies, £2500 j 18 > 204 165,151
To ~ £25001 2o .°i> o 185,211
i94i. 28,585 7 p.c.’= 889 i n
St 2
M 4 2- 42,823 7 p.c. = 10,211 52,6i2 26i,0i7
1940.. 44,024 7i p.e. = 10,960 33,064 294,081
* Includes reserve for unexpired risks.
A crrpnt Opc,! . . .
A great of extra new business has
come the Co. s way since the war began,
in spite of the loss of underwriting out-
posts early in the conflict with Japan. The
growth is entirely apart from underwriting
transacted with the public on behalf of
the Government, such as war-damage
insurance. Most marine war-risk business
is also a Government monopoly • it trades
through the brokers as the Marine War
Risks Insurance Board. There has been
a decline in the amount of cover taken
out by motor-car owners, as well as a
cut ot 25 p.c. in the nremium rates
charoprl nn t premium rates
cnargeu on private cars and p.c. on
commercial vehicles. But the difficulty of
replacement has impressed many in-
other 8 :;‘V h , e sp r ia ,‘ vaiue of house aod
will thekS nt h‘i m d ? S
connection with fire and other" risks"
Wnrkprs’ mmivneation ■ ,
with the wnr.tfm income has risen
, , * e growth m employment,
nd values generally are up, even if only
to the extent ot admitted cost-of-living
intuition, which the Prime Minister puts
at _4.5 p.c.
The Bankers and Traders’ is a 1922
offshoot of the Queensland. In its turn,
the B. and T. in 1941 formed Consoli-
dated Insurance Pty., a reinsurance sub-
sidiary that came into being at an
appropriate time. Last term the parent’s
gross premium income rose vigorously bv
£133,181 to £648,181 (up £225 088 in two
years), but nearly half the total was re-
insured, and only a net 534 more was
retained:
Net Losg Ex en=e
Premiums. Losses. Expenses. Ratio- Ratio. 6
}gS;; mSIS t? "
loo > l7l 09,350 44,254 00.2 ” 4li ”
1937:; n® 105,’sls eig Sil ” SI
1939.. 224.237 132,110 77,277 58 9 ” 344 ”
J^ 0 ;; usS uo’9n 111 ” 111 "
1942.. 302,454154,324130,222 51.0 ” 43.1 ”
1943 •* 834,ie0-,267 156,27 c 47.8 ” 46.6 ’,’,
F was less risky business, the loss rate
idling from 51 p.e. to 47.8 p.c,, but ex-
penses took much of the cream off; a
rise of £21,562 (to £50,997) in “land,
income and other taxes” was almost
entirely responsible for the lift of 3.5 p.c.
in the rate of administration outgo. Pro-
&P rat£S and ma intenance were £2632
higher owing to A.R.P. Because of the
higher expense rate the underwriting sur-
Ue, Sim ft"? <£18 ’ 445) was only £537 better at
126 P- c - on capital. Interest earnings
were £665 greater at £25,579, equal to
17,5 P- c - ’ thus the net result, subject to
unexpired risks, was up £1202 at £44,024,
and represented 30.1 p.c. on captal
compared with 29.3 p.c. in the preceding
term. All the immediate benefit share-
holders got was an extra half of one
per 'eern.-71 p.c, altogether. That is the
hrst alteration m the rate since 1936.
tnrlllHina £IT 000
,- r Elding £13,0(K added to reserve
40r unexpired risks, last term a record
£33,064 was added to the lay-by pile,
bringing it up to a little more than double
the capital. This helps to explain the
robust earning power of the business.
It 48 nevertheless clear from last year's
smab increase in investment income that
?PP° r tunities for the remunerative lay-
in S' OLlt °I funds are few and far between
at P resei y.- Government loans are the
PreSent ch ' el avenue ot i" v “tment:-
p.m
Sundry
waiters* .. i24,i6i 247,274 272,399 379,511
übiio
securities . . 204,958 221,073 280,446 315,328
Fixed deposits 23,500 32,500 42,000 66,000
ISwii ‘IS tg*
Book Jebts, etc. 40.328 54,590 92,751 149,609
“■ ow
There was an addition of £34,882 lasi
y «f ■ «*«! deposits also rose by £23W
an d there isn t much return from them
either. Cash and other deposits moved
up £21,069, while debtors and branch
balances were £56,858 greater. The
growth of £107,112 in creditors, etc,, was
mainly in connection with sundry
creditors and provision for taxation
(£129,029, up £57,627) and claims and
reinsurances unpaid (£49,928 higher at
£248,309). When the books closed net
tangible assets were equal to 131 p.c. of
the retained net premiums.


THE
UNITED
INSURANCE COMPANY LTD.
HEAD OFFICE : GEORGE AND HUNTER
STREETS, SYDNEY
An Australian Institution.
Established 1862.
DIRECTORS;
E. R. Knox (Chairman), Sir Thomas
Buckland, F. W. Hixson, Orwell
Phillips, G. F. Hughes, Robert Vicars.
Fire, Marine and Accident
Insurances of Every
Description
A. C. Dawson, T. C. Reynolds,
General Manager. Asst. Gen. Manager.
KIDNEYS
MUST REMOVE
EXCESS ACIDS
Help IS MILES of Kidney Tubes
Flush Out Poisonous Waste
If kidneys don’t pass 3 pints a day and get
rid of 3 pounds of waste matter, the 14 miles
of kidney tubes and filters become clogged
with poisonous waste and the danger of acid
poisoning is greatly increased.
This acid, condition is a danger signal and
may be the beginning of nagging backaches,
leg pains, loss of‘pep and energy, getting up
nights, lumbago, swollen feet and ankles, puf-
flness under the eyes, rheumatic pains and
dizziness. Frequent or scanty passages, with
smarting and burning, show there is some-
thing wrong with your kidneys or bladder.
Most people watch their bowels, which con-
tain only 27 feet of intestines, but neglect
the kidneys, which contain 15 miles of tiny
tubes and filters.
Don’t delay 1 Ask your chemist or store
for DOAN’S BACKACHE KIDNEY PILLS...
used successfully the world over by
of people. They give quick relief and will
help to flush out the 15 MILES of kidney
tubes. GET DOAN’S BACKACHE KIDNEY
PILLS at your chemist or store.
POBLIC TRUSTEE
Acts As
Trustee, Executor,
Administrator, Agent
or Attorney.
Under STATE GUARANTEE.
Absolute Security.
Estates efficiently and
economically managed.
' WRITE OR CALL FOR
FREE BOOKLET.
19 O’Connell St. (Box 7A, G.P.0.)»
Sydney.
W. B. Geddes, Public Trustee.
IN VIifvTUHS,- —Have you an idea worth patenting?
Hassel and Griffith, Patent Attorneys,
Vsbestos House, Cr. York and Barrack Streets, Sydney,
obtain Commonwealth and foreign patents.— Advt.
* * * »
DAVIKS & COLLISON, Patent Attorneys, Collins
House, 360 Collins Street. Melbourne. C.l. Austra-
dan and AS* Marks.-Anv t.
THAT
fa
Che
Estate Administration
demands specialized
knowledge
Friendship is not a qualification for executorship. With the best intentions
in the world, your friends are not necessarily the most competent people to
be entrusted with the administration of your affairs in the best interests of
your beneficiaries. Do not burden them with unfamiliar tasks. Place the
responsibility where it belongs—in the hands of Burns Philp Trust Company
Limited, where your estate will have the advantage of the cumulative experi-
ence and specialized experience of competent directors and capable
executives. Ask for particulars of the service we offer.
DIRECTORS—James Burns • Robert John Nosworthy - Lewis Armstrong - Joseph Mitchell
Manager—C. H. Chester
Burns Philp Trust
COMPANY LI Ml T £' D
7 BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY
PHONE: B 7901. Box 543 8, 5.P.0., Sydney.
BP 41-43
FORM A GROUP! JOIN A GROUP!
BUY WAR SAVINGS CERTIFICATES.
Commonwealth Bank of Hustvalia
BALANCE-SHEET AS AT 30th JUNE, 1943.
LIABILITIES.
£297,921,233 6 3
Contingent Liabilities: —
Outstanding Credits
per Contra 1,707,458 15 11
Total General Bank
and Rural Credits
Departments 299,628,092 2 2
Note Issue Department 149,496,942 1 2
£449,125,634 3 4
ASSETS. •
Commonwealth Govern-
ment Securities (in-
cluding Treasury Bills) 199,723,109 2 2
Bills Receivable In Lon-
don and Remittances
in Transit 12,337,214 4 5
Bills Discounted, Loans
and Advances to Cus-
tomers and Other
Assets 28,428,771 15 4
Bank Premises 608,372 9 7
£297,921,233 6 3
Liabilities of Customers
and Others on Letters
of Credit per Contra 1,707,438 15 11
Total General Bank
and Rural Credits
Departments 299,628,692 2 2
Note Issue Department 149,496,942 1 2
£449,125,634 3 4
PROFIT AND LOSS FOR YEAR ENDED 30th JUNE, 1943.
£ s. d.
General Bank Department:—
To Reserve Fund .... 436,567 9 4
„ National Debt
Sinking Fund .. 436,567 9 4
Rural Credits Department;—
To Reserve Fund .... 22,140 12 3
„ Development Fund 22,140 12 3
Note Issue Department;—
To Commonwealth
Treasury 2,247,701 12 6
£3,165,117 15 8
£ s. cl.
873,134 18 8
44,281 4 6
2,247,701 12 6
£3,165,117 15 8
We certify that the above Balance Sheet, compiled from
Statements furnished by the several offices of the Bank,
is true and correct.
(Sgd.) E. B. RICHARDSON, Secretary.
(Sgd.) GEO. F. DICKINSON. Chief Accountant.
For and on behalf of the Board,
(Sgd.) H. T. A EMITAGE.
Governor.
Sydney, 16th August. 1943.
Note Issue Department.
BALANCE-SHEET AS AT 30th JUNE, 1943.
LIABILITIES.
fi s. d.
Notes In Circulation .. 140,012,068 10 0
Reserve for Notes not
Presented 141,358 0 0
Special Reserve—Prem-
ium on Gold Sold .. 7,754,054 10 4
Other Liabilities 1,588,561 0 10
£149,490,942 1 2
ASSETS.
£ S. d.
Gold and English Ster-
ling Reserve
Debentures and Other
Securities
Other Assets
36,391,462 12
112,974,930 5
130,549 3
7
6
I
£149,496,942 I 2
Certified Correct.
(Sgd.) BERTRAND LATHAM, Secretary. Note Issue
Department.
(Sgd.) GEO. F. DICKINSON, Chief Accountant.
and on behalf of the Board.
(Sgd.) H. T. ARMITAGE.
Governor
Sydney, IGth August, I!) 1:1.
Commonwealth Savings Bank of Hustralia
BALANCE-SHEET AS AT 30ih JUNE, 1943.
LIABILITIES.
£ s. d.
Reserve Fund 3,474,346 8 6
Depositors’ Balances . 221,004,630 15 3
Contingency A/c. and
Other Liabilities ... 8,924,835 2 1
£233,403,812 5 10
ASSETS.
Coin. Cash Balances
and Money at Short
Call
Australian Notes ....
Government Sefcurities.
Securities of Municl-
palities and Other
Public Authorities ..
Bank Premises
Other Assets
44,073,548 I 7
436,676 0 0
153,951,134 8 6
30,590,718 13 9
023,235 4 1
3,728,499 17 11
£233,403,812 5 10
PROFIT AND LOSS FOR YEAR ENDED
30th JUNE, 1943.
Cr.
To National Debt Sink-
ing Fund
„ Savings Bank Re-
serve Fund ~i
£ s. d.
196.299 12 1
196.299 12 I
£392,599 4 2
£ s. d.
By Profit for Year ended
30th June, 1943, after
provision for pay-
ments amounting to
£260,741/13/9. due to
State Authorities
under Savings Bank
Amalgamation Agree-
ments
392,599 4 2
£392,599 4 2
We certify that the above Balance Sheet, compiled from
Statements furnished by the several offices of the Bank,
is true and correct.
(Sgd.) E. B. RICHARDSON, Secretary.
(Sgd.) GEO. F. DICKINSON, Chief Accountant.
For and on behalf of the Board,
(Sgd.) H. T. ARMITAGE.
Governor.
Sydney, 16th August, 1946.
Certificates
General for
as to the correctness of these accounts have been given by the Auditor-
the Commonwealth (Mr. R. Abercrombie).
Because of labor conditions no addi-
tional ore at Morning Star, main support
of Wood’s Point (Vic.), was brought m
by development last term ; at 26,000 tons
reserves are therefore down by the
amount of the year’s extraction, grade
also a ’weight lower at lldwt. The 45
men at present on the payroll are only
half the number needed to maintain a
decent development and treatment pro-
gramme, and how long it will be practic-
able to live on developed reserves remains
to be seen. Crushings last year came
from the Achilles floor, where a new flat-
dipping strike has been opened up.
Thanks to the jump in mill-heads,
financial results were the best since bush-
fires burnt out surface gear some four
years back:
• Work-
Yield ing
Year, Treated, Ton, Costs. / Divs.— >
Mar. Tons. Dwt. Ton.* Profit. Share. Amt.
1940 f. 7,342 8.0 60/~ £3,703
19-41.. 13,391 10.2 61/1 22,316 —■ “V
1942.. 16,458 9.9 61/6 31,216 1/- £20,000
1943.. 15,021 12.6 54/8 46,487 1/- 20,000
* Including development. +7l months.
Divs. on the £BO,OOO of capital now tot
up to £90,000. A deep prospecting drill-
hole put down in the centre df the dyke
has intersected seven gold-bearing floors
not previously known, so, though values
have to be determined, the long-term
policy of the management in lifting plant
capacity to 2400 tons monthly in 1941-42
appears soundly based. Meantime a con-
servative div. policy has accumulated
cash or its equivalent of £34,100 in kitty.
Current operations, recently interfered
with by bad weather, have shown re-
coveries below those for the past
12 months.
* $ * *
Westralian Government wants a second
producing coalfield. Wilga has by far the
best prospects, but is ruled out because
of its vicinity to Collie —the present one-
and-only source of supply. The Govern-
ment doesn’t want all the State-owned-
railways coal fuel transported from Collie
and Wilga in the south-west. It is there-
fore doing some development at Eradu,
on the Greenough River, near Geraldton.
Here seams are much narrower than at
Collie and Wilga, only averaging a little
over 2ft., compared with sft. to 10ft.
Calorific value is also lower.
* * * *
Westralian Chamber of Mines statis-
tics show that 3,225,704 tons of gold ore
was treated there in 1942 for a yield ot
845,772 fine ounces, valued, at 85s. an
ounce, at £3,592,611. Average recovery
was 5.24dwt. a ton. Men employed
totalled 8033, and dividends paid aggre-
gated £423,712. Compared with the 1941
figures, ore treated shows a fall of 985,070
tons, yield a drop of 259,7050 z., value a
tumble of £1,103,156 and average re-
covery one decimal less. Men employed
show a decrease of 4896, and dividends
are down £406,320. Figures for 1943
are expected to exhibit a further all-round
downslide.
* * * *
Here is an extract from Hill 50's
latest report: “The broken-milling-ore
reserve has been drawn on because of
the inadequate labor force now available
for all underground work. Machine-
miners are badly needed, and if not im-
mediately reinforced it must be expected
that the broken-ore reserve will be de-
pleted, and that working on the current
ore supply will mean a reduction in all-
round output, with increased cost. De-
velopment and further stope preparation
have been suspended. Opening up of the
400 ft. (bottom level) will be regulated by
the supply of suitable labor.”
* * * *
From London:
Gt, Boulder shareholders consider themselves
lucky to have control again of the affairs ot
the co. They are waiting, however, to see how
the new board shapes, and whether the domicile
here is again going to Westralia House (the
late chairman’s headquarters) after the liqui-
dator gets his discharge. The latter has had
the co. in his office for some time. Once the
Treasury is agreeable the domicile of the co.
will, it is thought, be transferred from London
to Perth.
sji t' * *
Boosting Westralia’s other-than-gold
mineral wealth, Minister for Mines
Panton says that in normal times mining
of much of it was adversely affected
because of isolation and consequential
high cost of development and operation.
Now, with war-time disappearance of
strangling competition from elsewhere,
an opportunity to do better has arisen,
which the State Government has grabbed
with both hands. Backed by its financial
assistance, development and production
of asbestos (blue and white), antimony,
feldspar, graphite, coal, tantalite, wol-
fram, mica, scheelite, arsenic and pyrite
are taking place on a number of fields,
and as a result of an examination made
by the Mines Department the British
Phosphate Commission is now engaged
in testing phosphate rock deposits on an
island close to the west coast. Panton
predicts a continuance of development,
production and newly-acquired markets
after the war.
* * * *
Chancellor of the Exchequer Kingsley
Wood’s declaration in the House of Com-
mons regarding international trade
and gold: “It would be foolish and use-
less to attempt to ignore the centuries-
old belief in the value of gold. All major
1 trading countries have an instinctive re-
spect for it. The greatest producer coun-
try in the world has acquired a very large
stock. The British Commonwealth of
Nations is the largest producer of gold,
and Russia has an increasing output,
which she uses for monetary pur-
poses.” He added; “We should be very
foolish if we attempted to separate the
unit of international trading account
from gold. Each country would have a
definite gold content for its currency,
which would be its official buying price
for gold, above which it must not pay.”
He said that the position of producers
and holders of gold was improved be-
cause they were provided with a secure
outlet for any gold they wished to dis-
pose of.
* * * *
From London: With a thank-God-
that’s-finished feeling Mt. Isa Mines on
May 31 paid off the balance (£40,132) ot
its 8 p.c. first “A” debentures. The stock
was redeemable at par by ten equal annual
drawings commencing May 31, 1934.


2% (ttnntnu'mal lattktug (Emupamj
of Smutted
(with which is amalgamated The Bank of Victoria Limited)
Incorporated in New South Wales.
Board of Directors:
EDWABD R. KNOX, Chairman. ORWELL PHILLIPS, Deputy Chairman.
GEOFFREY P. HUGHES, ROBERT VICARS, DOUGLAS R. LYSAGHT,
Dr. EDWARD W. FAIRFAX.
General Manager: C. DARVALL,
BALANCE SHEET ON 30th JUNE, 1943
(including the figures of the London Branch by cable)
To be presented to the Shareholders at the Ordinary General
Meeting to be held at the Head Banking House, 343 George
Street, Sydney, on Friday, 20th August, 1943.
LIABILITIES
Capital—
Authorised £ 12,000,000
in 480,000 shares of £25 each.
Issued —379,121 shares of £25 each £9,478,025 0
Less: Reserve Capital of £l2/10/- per share 4,739,012 10
0
0
Paid up £4,739,012 10 0
Reserve Fund (wholly used in the business of the Bank) 4,300,000 0 0
Pinal Dividend proposed 177,712 19 5
Balance of Profit and Loss Account 122,836 18 2
Total Shareholders’ Funds 9,339.562 7 7
Deposits, Bills Payable and other Liabilities, including pro-
visions for contingencies 69,724,532 14 6
Notes in Circulation 13,542 10 0
Balances due to other Banks 216,929 2 1
£79,294,566 14 2
Contingent Liabilities (under Letters of Credit, Guarantees, etc.) £1,712,950 11 3
ASSETS
Coin, Bullion, Notes and Cash at Bankers ... £6,051,736 4
Cheques and Bills of other Banks 976,449 13
Balances with and due from other Banks .... 214,427 19
Money at Short Call in London 875,000 0
Treasury Bills —Australian Government 8,165,000 0
Public Securities (excluding Treasury Bills)
at or below market value (including
£4,000 lodged with Public Authorities)
Australian Government Securities .... 12,937,172 2
Special War-Time Deposit Account with Com-
monwealth Bank of Australia 11,982,000 0
Bills Receivable and Remittances in Transit .. 2,925,838 11
6
8
8
0
0
8
0
6
-£44,127,624 11
7
Loans, Advances and Bills Discounted—after deducting provision
for debts considered bad or doubtful 33,603,346 12 8
Bank Premises, Furniture and Sites—at cost, less amounts
written off 1,133,096 5 0
All other Assets 430,499 4 11
£79,294,566 14 2
Contingent Assets (as per contra) £1,712,950 11 3
ORWELL PHILLIPS i E. R. KNOX, Chairman of Directors.
G. F. HUGHES J uneciors. c DARV ALL, General Manager.
AUDITORS’ REPORT TO THE MEMBERS OF THE COMMERCIAL BANKING
COMPANY OF SYDNEY LIMITED.
We have examined the above Balance Sheet and compared it with the books at
the Head Office and with the returns from the Branches. We have verified the
Bills and counted the Cash at the Head Office. We have obtained all the informa-
tion and explanations we have required, and in our opinion the Balance Sheet is
properly drawn up so as to exhibit a true and correct view of the state of the
Company’s affairs according to the best of our information and the explanations
given to us, and as shown by the books of the Company.
In our opinion the Register of Members and other records which the Company is
required to keep by law or by its Articles have been properly kept.
HARINGTON B. COWPER 1 Auditors.
F. W. HIXSON j
Sydney, 28th July, 1943.
PEOFIT AND LOSS ACCOUNT.
To Interim Dividend for the half-year ended 31st December,
1942, at the rate of 7% per cent, per annum, paid on 26th
January, 1943 £177,712 19 4
„ Reduction of Bank Premises Account 15,000 0 0
Balance proposed to be dealt with as follows:
To Dividend for the half-year ended 30th June,
1943, at the rate of 7% per cent, per
annum £177,712 19 5
„ Amount carried forward 122,836 18 2
300,549 17 7
£493.262 16 11
By Amount brought forward from 30th June, 1942 £ 119,165 2 0
„ Profit for the year ended 30th June, 1943, after payment of
all expenses of management (including Directors' Pees,
£3,750) and provision for taxes and for rebate on current
bills and accrued interest on fixed deposits, and for bad
and doubtful debts and other contingencies 374,097 14 11
£493,262 16 11
ORWELL PHILLIPS ) nlre( . tor „
G. P. HUGHES 1 ulretlors -
E. R. KNOX, Chairman of Directors.
C. DARVALL, General Manager.
Insure with the
AUSTRALIAN MUTUAL FIRE INSURANCE SOCIETY, LTD.
ESTABLISHED 1872.
HEAD OFFICE; INSURANCE HOUSE, 109 PITT STREET, SYDNEY
Invested Funds exceed £500,000.
All classes Marine, Fire and Accident Insurance at lowest rates.
TOURISTS’ AND TRAVELLERS’ BAGGAGE INSURED.
VICTORIAN BRANCH: 411 Collins Street, Melbourne.
QUEENSLAND BRANCH : Woolworth’s Building, Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
Claims Promptly and Equitably Settled. Agents in all Principal Country Towns.
W. G. BROWN, General Manager.
Business, Rollery, Etc.
The Central Bank’s Report
The report of the Commonwealth Bank
Board coincides with an occasion of un-
usual moment. The Labor Government,
returned to office with a big majority,
is assured of control of the Senate, and
with that control goes the possibility
of greater exercise of power over the
central bank board. Great industrial and
financial strain accompanied the war
year 1942-43, and a Budget for 1943-44
is imminent. Although war spending for
July showed a sharp reduction, and there
are indications that some of this coun-
try’s more ambitious munitions enter-
prises have been restricted or abandoned,
there is every reason to expect another
year of financial difficulty and living-
standard curtailment. A record sum of
£125 million is to be asked from the
public in the financial year’s first war
loan.
The report deals extensively and criti-
cally with the economic situation of Aus-
tralia as influenced by the war and the
war-time Administration. The year
covered by the review was outstanding
for the intensified pressure to mobilise
national resources for war and the
increasing grip of economic controls. It
was also noteworthy for the spending of
£562 million on war, finance for which
was found by taxation to the extent of
£159 million, £216 million by war loans
and war-savings certificates, £8 million by
internal funds and £179 million by Treas-
ury bills discounted with the central bank.
There is no mention of how much, if any,
bank credit figured in the £216 million
subscribed to war loans, but there is a
feeling in certain quarters that the
Treasury-bill figure is not the full extent
of the Labor Government’s use of bank
credit during the financial year ended
June 30 last.
Knight Claude Reading, signing for
the bank board, in dealing with the
danger of bank-credit finance, is construc-
tive as well as soberly critical. Point-
ing out that the trading banks have been
statutorily prevented from generating any
secondary inflation on a Treasury-bill
base, the report draws attention to the in-
creased spending-power that bank credit
nevertheless leaves in the hands of the
people. Since Treasury bills have this
effect, it is stated, their use, in view of the
amount of spending power already accu-
mulated, should in the future be reduced
to a minimum. Reduction could be made
by an increase in some forms of taxation,
by an increase in the volume of loan sub-
scriptions, as well as by the reduction of
Government expenditure “through exer-
cising the closest possible supervision over
costs and eliminating all unnecessary
items of expenditure.”
A comparison between war-time and
post-war use of bank credit is made. “The
use of central-bank credit in war-time is
unavoidable, but its dangers have been
kept in check by taxation, loans and war-
time economic controls. It does, how-
ever, add greatly to the accumulation of
purchasing power in the hands of the
public, which will continue to increase
until the end of the war.
“The greatest danger, therefore, lies in
the immediate post-war period, and it will
be essential that controls shall be carried
over into that period to prevent these
accumulations from causing serious dis-
location. In such circumstances any use
of central-bank credit after the war must
be made with the greatest caution in the
light of the governing economic condi-
tions.”
On the matter of public loans the board
does not echo the political gratification
expressed after each loan had been “over-
subscribed.” It says: “The number and
amount of subscriptions to both 1942-43
loans should have been much larger. Sav-
ings by the public at an increasingly high
level are now of the greatest importance
to a maximum war effort, and a greatly
expanded organisation is essential to stimu-
late savings and reinforce the drive for
loan subscriptions.”
The extraordinary surpluses shown by
State Treasuries have received appro-
priate attention. “Largely as a result of
the war the cash resources of the States
have increased to the very substantial
figure of approximately £34 million on
June 30, and this provides a suitable
opportunity for redeeming part of the
Treasury bills which were taken up by
the Commonwealth Bank to finance State
deficits in the years prior to 1934. Over
£5O million of these bills are still out-
standing, and the board has made repre-
sentations that arrangements should now
be made for permanent redemption of a
substantial proportion of them.”
Weaknesses in wage and other controls
are given major notice: “Unless the con-
trols are comprehensive, firmly admin-
istered and rigorously maintained, the
war effort is impaired and the threat of
inflation becomes serious.
‘The increases in purchasing power
have been due partly to the growing
number of men and women in employ-
ment and in the services, but partly to
increases in average wage earnings. These
increases have recently been fairly rapid
as a consequence of overtime work, in-
creases due to the cost-of-living adjust-
ments and high wages paid to women in
certain occupations. They have also been
increasing because of weaknesses in the
Economic Organisation Regulations,
which were designed to stabilise wage
rates.
“To check the rise in purchasing power,
with its threat to economic stability,
the closest supervision needs to be exer-
cised over Government and private ex-
penditure. Strong action should be taken
to close the gaps in the control of wages.
The weaknesses in the Economic Organ-
isation Regulations should be corrected
and resolute steps taken to avoid any
unnecessary overtime.”
The difficulty of controlling costs and
prices is increasing. The board is of the
opinion that the price-ceiling plan should
be enforced, supplemented by continuous
efforts to reduce spending by the people.
“Subsidies are an essential feature of the
ceiling-price plan, but should not be a
substitute for appropriate action to pre-
vent costs rising in the first place.”
Food-production problems are stressed.
Rural man-power has been drained by the
fighting services, but food “has become
all the more important because of the
necessity of continuing exports to Great
Britain and the meeting of requirements
of the forces in the south and south-west
Pacific areas, as well as fulfilling civilian
requirements. Recently the food con-
trols have been reorganised and grouped
under the one Department of Commerce
and Agriculture.”
Wool appraised in 1942-43 was 1100
million pounds’ weight, compared with
1083 million pounds in the previous
season. The price was up 15 p.c., and
the cheque rose from £63.1 million to
£73.5 million. The wheat harvest was
156 million bushels compared with 167
million. Efforts are being made to in-
crease the production of meat. Factory
butter output in 1942-43 was 165,000 tons,
lowest output, bar one drought year
since 1936-37. There has been “a fairly
considerable increase in cheese output”
Sugar production was 625,000 tons
against 744,000 tons, with 570,000 tons
the goal for 1943-44.
As to manufacturing, “Australia has
made considerable technical advances
during the period of the war, and will
emerge therefrom with greatly increased
resources of industrial skill and equip-
ment. In some instances problems of
deferred maintenance are becoming acute.
These arrears of maintenance, and ali
the work which will be involved in re-
equipping consumption and civilian in-
dustries, are major tasks which should be
left as far as possible to the post-war
period.”
The Mortgage Bank Department,
wished on the Commonwealth Bank by
Wilson, M.H.R., who helped to put
Labor in office in 1941, will commence
operations on September 27. For loans
up to 20 years the rate of interest is
4 p.c., with 1 p.c. minimum annual re-
payment. Loans for 21-41 years cost
2s. 6d, per cent, more in interest.
“In its early stages the National Wel-
fare Fund will no doubt build up sub-
stantial credit balances, which will be
used temporarily for war purposes. The
payment of social security benefits dur-
ing the war must add to the difficulty of
financing the war.”
Concerning the British and Ameri-
can post-war international currency pro-
posals and world economic planning
generally the bank board is of the opinion
that the maintenance of the highest prac-
ticable level of income, consumption and
employment in each country is the most
important contribution which can be
made to the betterment of international
economic relations.
With regard to Australia’s Ministry of
Post-war Reconstruction it is observed
that “while the success or otherwise of
post-war reconstruction plans will depend
largely on co-operation between the Com-
monwealth and State Governments, it is
difficult to see how the Commonwealth
Government can carry out its part unless
it is given the necessary powers.”
Commenting on plans in hand for post-
war housing and rural reconstruction the
report says: “The war has had a very
severe impact on building in Australia
and on rural industries. There is an
acute shortage of dwelling accommoda-
tion, and rural areas have been deprived
of a large proportion of man-power. The
removal of these deficiencies will provide
a considerable volume of employment in
the post-war period, and it is sound policy
to have commenced the necessary
preparations at a reasonably early stage.”
The central bank’s report covers little
ground that has not been covered, in
many cases more emphatically, in The
Bulletin during the past two years. But
there is a special significance about the
bank board’s warnings and opinions, and
they are published at the right time.
The chairman of British Insulated
Cables, Sir Alexander Roger, at the
annual meeting of the co. in London
expressed the view that a manufacturing
co. should have three main motives— (a)
to produce goods of the highest quality
by the most efficient means; ( b ) to pay
an equitable remuneration to all em-
ployees and assist them, or their depen-
dants, after their service with the co. has
ended ; and (c) to earn a reasonable profit
for shareholders on the capital invested
in the business. He said that there is “a
vast difference between the profiteering
motive and the profit motive. The profit
motive means to me the desire to earn
a reasonable wage or return commensu-
rate with the quality and fidelity of ser-
vices rendered and the risks undertaken.
Its effect is to ensure initiative and pro-
gress not only for the individual but for
the community as a whole.” He added;
“It would be ridiculous to claim that the
capitalist system is faultless, but I do
claim emphatically that it has enormous
advantages over any other economic sys-
tem yet tried, and, because under its
operation the standard of living in this
country has during the past 50 years
steadily improved, it would be dangerous
to discard it lightly.”


PEOPLE WHO LIVE IN SKYSCRAPERS are taking
to cleaning their teeth with tooth powder. It’s America’s
newest trend in dental hygiene, and one that is already
catching on here. The same Kolynos Tooth Powder which
is so popular in the States now comes to this country.
Like to try it? It leaves your mouth feeling sparkling
clean, and it’s made, of course, by the makers of the
famous Kolynos Dental Cream. Chemists and stores now
have limited stocks.
KOLYNOS TOOTH POWDER
THE ATMOSPHERE
HERE IS SOMEWHAT
RESTRAINED
Cylinders for the liquid C0 2 fire ex-
tinguishers used in air force crash
equipment are Seamless Steel Tubes
tested to withstand pressure of
3,300 lbs. per square inch. That’s a lot
of pressure, but it’s in safe keeping!
This and every wartime adaptation of Steel
Tubes relies on knowledge gained by B.T.M.
and its associates in the days before
progress was harnessed to war’s demands
BRITISH TUBE MILLS
(AUST.) PTY. LTD.
ADELAIDE
r{ )\ • X*.
w«iS
BUY
WAR
SAVINGS
i F
T E
R T I
m
I
■ 1
m
Mm
t y
fm
S*
«>' >S
“I’m reminding you that peaceful days
will come . . . and with the return of peace,
you’ll be able to relax and think of home
comforts. For the time being, take care
of your Feltex floor covering . . . and invest
what you save in War Bonds.”
feltex
FELT & TEXTILES OF AUSTRALIA LIMITED
Manufacturers of Feltex Floor Covering.
The Next War Loan
Those voters who returned Labor to
office with an overwhelming majority will
soon be given the opportunity of showing
whether they regarded Labor in the light
of an out-of-season Santa Claus who was
not to be shot or whether they were
really impressed with the party’s manage-
ment of the war effort. The £125 million
Fourth Liberty Loan will open on
October 5, and in that record amount
there will be ample scope for all to show
the color of their money and their real
interest in the Government of Australia,
In the past it has been the moneyed and
middle classo-5 whn bavp boon the great-
middle classes wno n a ve been tne , r f
est supporters of public loans, and wnile
that is all right in peace-time, when the
spendings of wage-earners are good for
r , ° , ■ ° • „ , ,
employment, in war-time savings by
wage-earners are wanted more than
spendings. The most desirable form of
saving is investment in war loans. The
spenders will have to become investors
in order to make the new loan a success.
The traditional investor has been drained
almost dry.
There has been a poor loan response
from trade-unionists in this war. In the
opinion of the Commonwealth Bank
Board, the 456,000 subscriptions to the
first of last year’s loans and the 434,000
to the second were much too small. Yet
the need for the money is urgent in the
interest of the war effort and the credit
of the country, matters that should be
close to the hearts and consciences—as
well as the self-interest—of every person
in this land
With housing a major Australian
problem, these remarks of Thomas Arm-
strong, chairman of the Intercolonial
Investment, Land and Building Co., Syd-
ney, are relevant: —
Federal regulations issued in January,
1942, prohibit the erection of new buildings
or the carrying out of alterations (other
than of a minor character) on any property
within 25 miles of the G.P.O. This regu-
lation, unfortunately, brought to a stand-
still the whole of our building activities.
At the time it was thought that this would
be only a temporary measure, but a press
statement records Mr. Dedman as saying
“No relaxation of the present building re-
strictions is in sight Shortages of trades-
men and materials have reached a critical
stage.” A keen demand for homes for rent-
ing continues. The existence of drastic
regulations is building up a serious problem
which the authorities should endeavor to
minimise by a judicious relaxation. the
Intercolonial in the past carried out a
vigorous home-building policy, mainly on its
own estates, and erected thousands of
homes, which it was able to sell at reason-
able prices. For 50 years it expended on
buildings a sum of over £1,340,000, and in
addition advanced by way of loans, mostly
to buy or improve homes or pay off exist-
ing mortgages, a further £954,000. Jhe co.
is in a position to continue this enterprise,
as it has the experience, ability and neces-
sary funds and available estates within easy
distance of the city where it could again
pursue a vigorous building programme if
the material and men were made available
and the restrictions removed.
The Intercolonial Co. has a good record
among home-seekers and its own share-
holders. One of the chief factors in its
| on S record of service and success has
been the administration of W. J. Douglas,
now vice-chairman, who took over the
management in the troubled nineties ot
the * ast _ century. The co. s present
manager is J. B. Perry.
* , * „ * A
The board of Peters American De i-
cacy Co., by way of explanation ot its
request that the articles of association be
altered in the matter of appointing direc-
t°rs (B* 25/8/ 43), has circularised siare-
holders as follows:
An impossible business situation would
arlse lf at an y tlme a P erson who had beea
dismissed from any office or employment
with the company or its subsidiaries was
elected to the board and had to deliberate
and determine the policy of the com-
pany in conjunction with the directors, wno
might be the very directors who had dis-
missed him. This situation would result
in want of harmony and would seriously
affect the company s business.
, * . . . ~
Following a revision of the limits o
New Zealand Forest Products shares
the co. has been granted a license by tne
Maoriland Government to make kraft
P a P er there have been offers tor e
or< * s -. at 2s. 6d. in Mel bourne, sel £ rs ■
mammg a loof. In N.Z. 10s. is ten e o
f° r ie P re * s -> likewise with little respons .
A y ear a §o approximate Maonlan_ p i
orc^s - w& s 3s. 6d., prefs. s. •
hakatane Paper Mfils> which has ee
making cardboard tor a Y ears n ° ’
anc * which turned *4,656 tons as
y ear ( U P 3248 tons), has an mac i
market for its unlisted scrip. Profits lor
the year to June 30 last, if maintained
at the previous term’s ratio of about
£3 10s. per ton of output, should wipe
out the p. and 1. debit and make the way
clear for dealing with the pref. arrears,
provided establishment account or out-
side debts don’t stand in the way. There
j s a great demand for the co.’s products
] n n Z but for a lone time the Govern-
’ ’’ , „„ „„
ment was not co-operative,
* * * *
A direct result of the isolation of the
R lt - „ minfr j_ c Australia has increased
P a *t lc countries Australia has increased
its flax acreage from 2000 acres pre-war
to 60,000 acres. Production of flax fibre
has g f rom 10Q tons a year to 3600
6 ~ f t1l „ p ntP rnrkp has
tons. Capital cost of tne enterprise na
been £600,000, and there are 32 mills in
operation. Employees number 2000. As
against a pre - W ar price of £5 a ton for
fjjF
standard straw, growers are now paid
£g ? plus bonuses for quality that may
bring the total payment up to £lO. The
w hnlc Australian enternrise is one that
whole Australian enterprise is one mar
was planned early in the war in co-opera-
tion with the British Government, which
shares with Australia any profits or
losses arising from flax oroduction for
losses arising rrom nax prouueuon roi
war purposes. Linen cloth is used exten-
sively in the aircraft industry,
* * * *
„
The maximum old-age-pension rate has
gone up to 275. a week by a cost-of-living
adjustment, and all rates under the maxi-
mum rise by 6d. a week.


THE SERVICE MAN
In Salamaua's Suburbs.
“Ek Dum”: The heart of the fighting
fronts of the South Pacific was last week
in the New Guinea sector.
In New Georgia Bairoko was finally
occupied with little resistance. On the
Solomons front there was little fight left
in the small remaining pocket garrisons,
who must have smiled a wintry smile as
Tokyo Radio sent them the news that
they and their support at Munda (now
no more!) had killed 10,000 Americans.
Tokyo also claimed to have sunk 13
Allied cruisers and 19 destroyers and to
have destroyed 836 aircraft and damaged
78 others from June 30 to August 25!
Nothing like whistling (lies) to keep the
courage up!
Enemy operations chiefly consisted
of gradually dwindling raids on the newly
acquired Vella Lavella island, though
Japanese “news” services to enemy
Europe told how murderous Japanese fire
prevented an attempted U.S. landing on
Kolombangara on August 23. The mes-
sage alleged that several of the American
landing boats had capsized. No word
of this tragedy seems to have reached
General Mac Arthur’s headquarters.
One of three large enemy destroyers
found west of Bougainville was set on fire
late in the week, and 14 out of 30 enemy
machines were destroyed in a fight over
Kahili.
In the New Guinea area the story was
as sad for the enemy as in the Aleutians
and the Solomons.
For part of the week the weather was
so bad as to prevent large air operations,
but, when it permitted, bombing was car-
ried out all along the New Guinea coast
on the ports and communication lines
from Wewak to Salamaua.
At the mid-week the main air attention
was directed to Hansa Bay, which has
become a main supply base for the Lae-
Salamaua area since those ports became
untenable for enemy shipping.
On August 26 100 Liberators, For-
tresses and Mitchells dropped 180 tons
round the bay, which is halfway between
Madang and Wewak. Many ack-ack
positions were wiped out, big fires were
started, a freighter was sunk and 45
barges were destroyed or severely dam-
aged. All our ’planes came home, though
some were limping from the results of
ack-ack fire.
Wewak had been hit again the previ-
ous day by 112 tons of bombs. An enemy
fighter was shot down, those in the air (20
were counted) showing reluctance to risk
combat with the Lightning umbrella. At
Kavieng (New Ireland) on August 26 a
7000-ton freighter was destroyed, and
numerous barges were sunk in expedi-
tions to the Vitu Group, north-west of
New Britain.
Perhaps the most significant event for
a long time was the bombardment of
Finschhafen docks and installations on
the night of August 23 by light Allied
warships—the first time there had been
any report of activity by United Nations
war vessels larger than m.t.bs. and barges
beyond Nassau Bay for over 18 months.
Australians Cross the Francisco
At the same time Australian forces had
moved onward a step from their ranges
south of the Francisco River, which
moated them off from Salamaua’s main-
land aerodrome and the town, perched on
the isthmus of a peninsula which at first
glance looks remarkably like a relief map
of Malaya.
Before the mid-week Australian troops
were on the very threshold of their goal.
They had crossed the Francisco north-
east of Old Bobdubi, which lies at the
head of a ridge, tightly embraced by a
river bend. The crossing seems to have
been made about a mile and a half from
the aerodrome in this bend. Some Ameri-
cans were also advancing in the Roose-
velt Ridge area nearer the coast.
Only pockets of the enemy now re-
mained south of the Francisco. These
were being cleaned out before the main
assault should be attempted. By August
29 the Australians had infiltrated many
positions across the river from the west
and a climax was near.
In the interval the artillery sang
hoarsely, with occasional castanet accom-
paniment from the m.-gs. and mortar
obbligato at times. The tactical air force
continued to drop bombs on Salamaua,
though there was not much of it left to
bomb.
In the north-west activity was limited,
but extended from Kendari in the Celebes
down to the Kai and Tanimbar Islands.
Tokyo Radio, according to a New
York report, told another strange tale of
a raid on a big Allied aerodrome at
Brock’s Creek (120 miles or so from
Darwin) a fortnight previously, in which
it was declared that anti-aircraft positions
and runways were severely blasted and
“facilities for Australian long-distance
raids against Japanese-occupied areas
severely damaged.” No confirming report
has been issued by the Allied H.Q.
Berlin's Paddock of Flame.
“Ek Dum”: In the first hours of
August 24 Berlin suffered an R.A.F. raid,
its 73rd in number, its first on the 1943
scale.
As operations such raids are compar-
able with the concentrated battles cf
armies, and in the damage they do with
major artillery bombardment.
To follow through such an event as
the Berlin raid is to develop something
like awe for the inexorable British and
for the scale in which they can deal in
destruction when aroused.
It is late in the afternoon of August
23. Seven hundred giant bombers are
ready.
Set in line, wing tip touching wing tip,
they would stretch for 13-} miles without
a break, but they are scattered over many
aerodromes.
Their 2800 engines, generating 4,000,000
h.p., have been checked over. The com-
plicated ignitions, their complex carburet-
tors and superchargers, their feeding and
oiling systems have been listened to, ad-
justed, passed by thousands of mechanics.
Their 700 enormous landing gears
complicated machines in themselves —
have been pronounced working smoothly ;
ditto, their huge bomb racks, almost the
length of a cricket pitch. The fleet
communication system of perhaps
5000 telephones and hundreds of wire-
less sets, the 20,000 or so instruments
to be used, have had their trials. The
5000 navigators, pilots, bomb-aimers,
gunners wait; the 6000 or 7000 machine-
guns and cannon are loaded, each ready
to spit bullets or shells at the rate of
hundreds a minute —the armada could
fire in unison a burst at the rate of
nearly 3,000,000 shots a minute with all
guns going.
Five thousand parachutes have been
tested.
The rescue services are disposed across
the Channel and the North Sea waiting.
The great radio-location stations, where
there are 'thousands of busy instruments
with busy brains behind them, are all
intent to pick up enemy movements. The
fighters and the scouts are out. There
are thousands of subsidiary ’planes of
various types, hundreds of naval craft,
all alert and ready for action.
The meteorologists begin to make their
reports. The crews assemble for briefing.
Sundown Over London
By sundown, with perhaps two hours
of the warm, cosy British twilight ahead,
the 2800 engines have been run on test.
The crews and ground crews, perhaps
120,000 skilled men and women, are at
stations.
Huge, squat wagons have waddled up
to each bomber.
From these tens of thousands of gal-
lons of oil have been poured into those
thirsty throats. Into the petrol tanks of
each machine have gone a couple of
1000-gallon tanks or so of a spirit which
makes the high-octane aircraft petrol of
1939 look like uncleared water. The
petrol bill for even a heavy short-range
raid on the Ruhr will run to the vicinity
of £400,000 Australian.
As the twilight deepens the procession
begins a majestic progress over London
—nearly 200 acres of giants.
It passes over the white, soot-streaked
majesty of St. Paul’s, standing in the
wilderness which the Germans left around
it on December 29, 1940, when they tore
the heart out of the London of Wren
and Dickens. To the left is William’s
Tower, which has stood just short of 900
years and is good for another 900 years.
The Thames is soon behind, the groves
of Epsom, the Hog’s Back. It is too dark
as the ships reach the Channel to see the
white-etched lines of the Roman roads
and the Pilgrims’ Way and all the features
of Kent and Sussex, perhaps the most
dearly loved landscape on earth.
For an hour the roar over England
continues as the big machines pass out to
sea in a cloud and begin to climb. It is
dark in London before the last of them
have passed.
They soar, eight hours’ flying ahead, as
high as their loads will let them. They
are set on their gyro courses.
From the moment they are within the
reach of the first flak ship and they cross
the bomb-scarred and -blackened Con-
tinental coast on the way out till they
cross it again coming home life is made
up of searchlight on searchlight, night
fighter on night fighter, flak like a carpet.
Even at 30,000 feet they would not be safe.
Berlin’s Moonrise
For four hours the big bombers snore
along aloft across the flat plain of North-
Sea Germany, Perhaps smoke still rises
from smouldering Hamburg on their left
hand as they veer over the Elbe and swing
behind Berlin. Ahead, where the Rus-
sian front lies, Mars, bright and gibbous,
and Saturn are rising to preside as morn-
ing stars over the coming feast of death
and destruction ; and the eastern horizon
is slit with yellow, as the moon and mid-
night arrive.
The pathfinders come in over Berlin
from the east, sweeping south past the
huge Tempelhof aerodrome, three miles
from the city’s heart; the marker ’planes
follow; the command is somewhere up
aloft with the cherubs, above the flak but
ever on the ’phone.
A line of colored lights suddenly begins
to form across Berlin past the Kur-
fursten-Damm and the spires of the
Gedachtnis Church in the West End ;
past the sullen flak towers in the Tier-
garten, which were built to welcome play-
ful visitors who might dive low on Adolfs
new Chancellery or Hermann’s Air Min-
istry or go skittering down the Linden
shooting up Berliners. The line of fires
crosses the twisting Spree, which seems
to wriggle under the suddenly leaping
flames, goes northward past the gleaming
water of the Havel, over the Charlotten-
burger Chaussee, past the gasworks,
across the electrical centre, where the
western power station and giant Siemen-
stadt stand together, over the ship canal
and its two harbors, along the north of
battered Wedding, where the armament
workers live in serried streets, and south
again.
A spade seems to have scored a fiery
ditch round the West End of Berlin, right
down to the depths of hell.
It is the job of the main squadrons of
bombers which are now coming in to
blast and burn everything standing within
that four miles square which has been
mapped into a flame-fenced paddock.
Inside it the oil bombs and incendiaries
begin to burst, marking out fresh targets.
Each on its allotted course, regardless
of the flak and searchlights, dodging the
fighters, the squadrons cross the city, com-
manded from above.
Each goes to the target charted and
beaconed for it.
Each is in itself a high-explosive bomb
in which are seven tiny mortals gripped
in the arms of a force which, let loose,
would leave no vestige of them in its
explosion.
One small shell among the hundreds
the fly about them, one burst from the
swift night fighters which have begun to
swarm, could send up their hundreds of
gallons of petrol in a sheet of flame and
detonate under them bombs which could
reduce a cathedral to atoms.
But they go steadily on. Their ’plane
rises buoyantly as they open their racks
and their bombs hurtle downwards.
Their guns stutter in chorus with those
of the enemy as a night fighter tries to
take them. Those who are not otherwise
engaged look back and see a large bit of
Berlin rise like an erupting volcano where
their 4000-pounder went home, and whole
buildings sprayed across the leaping
flames in dust.
The Paddock of Flame
The racket continues for nearly an hour,
during which bombs fall at the rate of
36 tons a minute.
The last bombers to leave cannot dis-
tinguish the fence of fire which the first-
comers drew, for all inside it is a raging
inferno. Even 200 miles away the glow
is still to be seen, so that it is not possible
to observe the new operation which
Nature is performing on the eastern hori-
zon to let the dawn through. Mars and
Saturn are lost in daylight.
Haggard, weary and blackened, their
insides filled with smoke, the bomber
crews come home.
Some of the big aircraft have only half
their tails, some have fuselages full of
holes you could put your head through.
In some fields there are wounded and
young dead to be carried out gently to
the waiting ambulances. Uniformed girls
serve coffee and sandwiches while the
intelligence men get to work, and the
ground crews swarm over their charges.
For an hour England again is under a
vast cloud of roaring aircraft. The listen-
ing-posts are waiting vainly for the 58 big
bombers and their 400 gallant men whose
lives are the price of Berlin’s anguish.
Berlin’s Red Morning
The sun is up before the last machines
limp to their ’dromes on badly-wounded
engines and landing gear that a Harold
Park dog-punter wouldn’t bet on.
In Berlin they are celebrating an anni-
versary. It is August 24, four years to the
day since the “Vblkischer Beobachter” and
“Das Reich” were selling like hot cakes
round the Ring stations, full of the
news that the German-Soviet Pact had
been signed and the way was open for
Germany to become the master of
Europe.
How different the German world was
then! August 24, 1939, had been the be-
ginning of that ten days of exultant and
surging activity which had ended in the
midnight when the little children of Lon-
don were evacuated from Waterloo, sing-
ing the “Lambeth Walk,” and Berlin
Radio threw its taunting martial air at
its intended victims:
Morning Red, Morning Red,
Shall I soon be lying dead?
Soon the trumpet sounds to strife;
Then must I lay down my life,
I and many a comrade dear.
But it wasn’t Berlin that was to do the
dying ; the song was a jeering reminder
to Germany’s enemies of their coming
doom.
What a different scene in Berlin, half
hidden in suffocating fumes, its tired
citizens slipping on a damp patina of
volcanic ash, on the morning of August
24, 1943! There was no pact with Soviet
Russia any more, there were no flowet
and newspaper sellers along the Linden
and the Kurfursten-Damm.
The whole west was under a vast pil-
lar of whirling, oil-laden smoke, merci-
fully hiding square mile upon mile of
horror, covering as large a block as from
Sydney Harbor to Botany Bay, taking in
a band four miles wide.
Ambulances threaded their way among
the tangle of hoses round the edges of
the cratered expanse of ruin. Red-eyed
firemen and A.R.P. -workers staggered
out, singed and beaten.
Every little while an ear-splitting crash,
followed by an unearthly sucking sound
and the rattle of a giant hailstorm,
announced that another of the delayed-
action bombs in the use of which Berlin
had “led” the world had gone up, taking
a bit more of the city with it.
Gutters ran with bloodstained filthy
water from the broken mains.
In much of Berlin there would be no
hot food that day, no lights, and it would
be unsafe to strike a match because of the
escaping gas. Thousands of Berliners
would be dead ; the wounded round the
military objectives of the west beyond
the capacity of the hospitals to deal
with.
And, worst of all, Berlin had the
knowledge that this could be only the
beginning. That night the Mosquitoes
would be heard tearing across the city at
400 miles an hour freshening up the
fires. Next night the Lancasters and
the Stirlings might be back to do to
other parts of Berlin what had been done
in the west; to do it over and over again,
till the city was almost completely
gutted like Hamburg and Wilhelmshaven
and Duisburg, Diisseldorf, Wupperthal
and Cologne.
Streams of refugees poured out into the
country. Berlin, too, had lost its voice.
In all the maze of its huge and compli-
cated radio centre there seemed nobody
to whisper the formula which used to
ring out from it with cruel derision every
morning in 1940-41, while British women
and children were being killed by Ger-
man bombs, about how only the crush-
ing of Britain, the world’s mortal enemy,
could bring peace to the world for a
thousand years.
Keeping It Up.
“Ek Dum”: With the approach of the
new moon and the arrival of lengthening
nights, heavy raiding of Germany and
occupied countries flared up last week.
The main raids were:
August 22-23: I.G. Farben Chemical Works
at Leverkusen (16 miles from Dusseldorr)
attacked —Berlin said that “a major bomber lor-
mation operated over a wide area and damages
buildings in several localities, particularly Dussei
dorf.” Five of our bombers were lost and two
enemy interceptors shot down.
August 23-24: Berlin raided by 700 heavies,
which dropped 1800 tons of bombs on the
western and southern industrial and aero-
drome areas within 50 minutes. Tire Britrsn
Air Ministry reported 58 bombers
enemy claimed to have shot down 60. several
German night-fighters were destroyed. the
raid was six times as heavy in intensity as any
on London in 1940-41. According to Swedish
sources a Berlin police report of August z/
placed the number of dead so far found at -6»u
and those bombed out and dependent on army
kitchens for food at 120,000. ..
August 24-25: Two short raids by Mosquitoes
on Berlin; one lost. „
August 26: Daylight raids by three U.S-
Fortress formations on Poix airfield (hrancej.
August 27-28: R.A.F. heavies m v eryj rea
strength” carried out a concentrated attack on
Nuremberg factories, dropping 1500 tons m
45 minutes. Thirty-three bombers were lost—
the Germans claimed “62, mostly
The force used was described as a recora,
but whether in numbers or load-carrying capa-
city was not stated. .
U.S. Fortresses bombed objectives under cover
of fighters in France. In combats, 18 enemy
fighters were destroyed.
These operations were in addition to
incessant attrition raids against enemy


Divorce Notices.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES— In Divorce.
TO ERIC GEORGE COOPER—TAKE
NOTICE that JEAN LUTTON COOPER has
filed a Petition for Divorce No. 1567 of 194 j
on the grounds of desertion without just cause
or excuse for three years and upwards If
you wish to defend you may enter an appearance
at the Divorce Office Supreme Court King
Street Sydney by the Ist November 1943 and
obtain a copy of the petition without charge
from G. W. MARSH Solicitor 92 Pitt Street
Sydney.— (l.s.) C. K. BODY, Registrar in
Divorce. ,
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES— In Divorce.
TO WILLIAM ARTHUR TIBBETTS late of
c/o Mr. Blake Woronora River Como. —TAKE
NOTICE that GLADYS VIOLET TIBBETTS
has filed a Petition for Divorce No. 2340 of
1942 on the ground of desertion without just
cause for three years and upwards If you wish
to defend you may enter an appearance at the
Divorce Office Supreme Court King Street Syd-
ney by the Ist November 1943 and obtain a
copy of the petition without charge from W. B.
SCOTT Solicitor 153 Elizabeth Street Sydney.
—(l.s.) C. K. BODY, Registrar in Divorce.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES— In Divorce.
TO WILLIAM LEO late of Wandanem.—
TAKE NOTICE that NORMA EILEEN LEO
has filed a Petition for Divorce No. 784 of
1943 on the grounds of desertion without just
cause or excuse for three years or upwards
If you wish to defend you may enter an
appearance at the Divorce Office Supreme
Court King Street Sydney by the First day of
November One thousand nine hundred and
forty-three and obtain a copy of the petition
without charge from ERNEST WILLIAM
WARREN Solicitor 179 Elizabeth Street Syd-
ney.— (l.s.) C. K. BODY, Registrar.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES— In Divorce.
TO THOMAS WILLIAM HAYES of North
Bondi Sydney Waiter. —TAKE NOTICE that
VIOLET ANNIE HAYES has filed a Petition
for Divorce No. 2153 of 1943 on the ground
of desertion without just cause or excuse for
three years and upwards If you wish to defend
you may enter an appearance at the Divorce
Office Supreme Court King Street Sydney by
the Ist November 1943 and obtain a copy, of
the petition without charge from J. J. KiEEY
Solicitor 17 Castlereagh Street Sydney, (1.5.)
C K BODY, Registrar in Divorce.
Ijn
lat SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES— In Divorce.
TO DORIS ELSIE ISOBEL WOODMAN c/o
Mrs. S. Malpas Flat No. 4 No. 10 Claremont
Street South Yarra Melbourne—TAKE
NOTICE that KENNETH CYRIL WOOD-
MAN has filed a Petition for Divorce No. J3sj>
of 1943 on the ground of desertion without
just cause or excuse for three years and up-
wards If you wish to defend you may enter
an appearance at the Divorce Office Supreme
Court King Street Sydney by the 4th October
1943 and obtain a copy of the petition with-
out charge from J. J. KIELY Solicitor 17
Castlereagh Street Sydney.— (l.s.) C. K. BODY,
Registrar in Divorce.
IN
THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES— In Divorce.
TO ARTHUR FREDERICK CAMPBELL.—
TAKE NOTICE that PHYLLIS HILDA
CAMPBELL has filed a Petition for Divorce No.
1654 of 1943 on the grounds of desertion with-
out just cause for three years and upwards
If you wish to defend you may enter an ap-
pearance at the Divorce Office Supreme Court
King Street Sydney by the 17th November
1943 and obtain a copy of the petition without
charge from S. D. RATNER Solicitor 56 Huntet
Street Sydney.— (l.s.) C. K. BODY, Registrar.
m
am
railways, depots, aerodromes, air patrols
and moving troops and communication
lines, nightly minelaying operations and
the day- and nightlong blitz which was
turning the military landscape of Europe
into a shambles and a ruin in Italy.
After Kharkov.
“Ek Dum”: After Kharkov was evacu-
ated by the Germans on August 22, Rus-
sian progress to the north of the city was
swift for a time, suggesting no great
amount of enemy resistance up to within
20 miles of the Bryansk-Konotop railway.
To the south, in the Isyum sector,
there was slight progress towards the
week-end. Towns which had been
in Russian hands in February—
Barvenkova, Losovaya were still
walled behind a straight German line
to Slavyansk, where a German salient
pushed out on the south to the
Mius River, a few miles north of Tagan-
rog, towards Voroshilovgrad. In this
region on August 23 the Russians had
reported a headlong advance of from
20 to 30 miles. It seemed to have stopped.
The reported breaks-through north-west
of Vyazma in the Byeloi region, over
country which was already supposedly in
Russian hands; in the Demensk salient
facing Roslavl; at Karachev, 25 miles
from Bryansk (announced as threatened a
fortnight ago) had come to nothing so far,
but Syevsk in the Kursk sector had fallen.
There has been no German attempt to
withdraw either from the southern indus-
trial Ukraine, from the Crimea or from
the Kuban, across the Kerch Strait.
Retirement in these areas would mean
that the Germans feel themselves in
serious danger, but there is no evidence
of it so far. The fact that their front
above Kharkov could be dented for 85
miles without causing chaos or forcing
them to withdraw south of Kharkov
shows that the invaders have defence in
depth of great strength and resilience.
Seemingly, their reserves are' far from
exhausted, and they are still not showing
themselves short of ’planes, guns or tanks.
Russian communiques have had little
to say about the condition of the Ger-
man armies. They have reported con-
sistent Russian advances in the Kharkov
area of two to ten miles a day, men-
tioning strong ground resistance, with
particularly heavy but futile air attacks.
North-west of Poltava towns have
several times changed hands in the last
few days.
Berlin is apparently more concerned
about British bombing than Russian ad-
vances, perhaps because the bombs are
700 miles nearer home. Berlin Radio on
August 27 broadcast an official state-
ment that “the situation on the Russian
front on the whole is regarded with
equanimity” ; the Germans being intent
on attrition of Russian man-power based
on defence in depth, which, it was
boasted, would “presently turn into a
death trap for the Russian offensive.” It
was claimed that the Russians were being
compelled to sacrifice men on a “desper-
ate” scale to try to secure grain lands,
but that their attacks since July 5, while
costing them 1,200,000 men in dead,
wounded and prisoners, had yielded them
only 10,000 square miles in the Ukraine.
But it was admitted in this bulletin
that the Russians had driven a westerly
wedge into the German lines on the Mius,
north of the Azov Sea, and that they were
attacking on a broad front west of Khar-
kov, while they had brought reinforce-
ments from the north and central fronts.
The Russians’ ability to sustain their
advances over six weeks is the most hope-
ful feature of the news. But the season
is so far advanced and progress is so
slow that, unless the enemy breaks sud-
denly and internally, or unless he makes
a voluntary retreat, there can be no solid
ground for believing that he will be
cleared out of the Crimea and the
Ukraine and White Russia this year.
Against the 10,000 square miles captured
by the Russians, he still holds 500,000
square miles of Russia.
Italy's "Awful Mess."
“Ek D.”: Italy is like a ramshackle
house on the verge of receiving a tornado,
while German neighbors scurry about
erecting barricades against the moment
when the whole Italian dwelling may be
blown through the Teutonic front door,
to land with a crash on the piano.
On August 29 a German High Com-
mand report claimed four medium-sized
Allied ships hit by aerial bombs and
20,000 tons of Allied shipping sunk by
U-boats in the Mediterranean.
Various reports from the German side
of Switzerland declare that there are
400,000 German troops in Italy. Corre-
spondents who can’t find out where Mus-
solini is are yet convinced that somehow,
somewhere and between somebody nego-
tiations for an Italian surrender may (or
may not) be in progress,
Berlin Radio quoted the Rome press
on August 28 as saying that Italy ex-
pected “an event of the first order.”
Generally speaking, however, the minds
of everyone except the grim Fifteenth
Army Group of General Alexander in
Sicily, flinging hourly its tactical air
violence against Italian strongholds and
communication centres, seem as if they
have nothing left to decide since Rome
Radio issued a historic summary on
August 23:
Italians are in an awful mess. We have
no great cause for which to fight. We are
just fighting for our skins. It is a damnably
tough fight. One moment we are appealed
to and cajoled; the next threatened and
abused. We are called cowards, pawns,
backstabbers and starry-eyed innocents.
Possibly all true! V eramente! But we are
only a hardworking nation who have been
through a painful experience, and who ars
determinedly trying to put our house in
order. And while we are doing that will
somebody be pleased to tell us what every-
body is fighting for and whom and why?
Publicly, Badoglio gives no signs of
doing anything but continue to fight,
Italy was attacked by air from Taranto
to Terni (40 miles from Rome) at the
week-end. At Taranto a cruiser was
damaged. Earlier in the week U.S.
bombers had blown the stern off another
one and sunk her.
More Trouble for Hitler.
German-held Europe becomes uneasier
every day. Early last week it was an-
nounced that Himmler, chief of the Ges-
tapo, had been appointed Reichsminister
for the Interior, presumably because the
German interior needs drastic medicine.
Next the Germans found it necessary
to take over the government of Den-
mark and declare martial law, under Ger-
man control, over the Danish people, who
are alleged to have become the “dupes
of enemy agents.”
It was reported on August 29 that on
the previous evening heavy fighting had
taken place at Copenhagen, between
Danish sailors, who had blown up part
of the arsenal, and Germans.
Six small naval ships arrived at Malmo
in Sweden, a few miles away, one having
left the Danish capital under fire. Their
crews stated that the Danes had scuttled
other ships.
There was an unconfirmed report that
3000 German troops had been landed on,
Danish soil and that the King had abdi-
cated. But all communications with other
countries had been cut.
However, Denmark is within easy sight
of Sweden, so it should be easy for
authentic news to get out.
And King Boris of Bulgaria sud-
denly of a “mysterious illness.” A.B.C
offered two theories: (1) he was a friend
of Hitler, and had been done in by an
anti-Hitler Bulgarian ; (2) he was a friend
of Russia and had been done in by Ges-
tapo agents. The defunct, who did not
look a strong man, may have just died
of the local influenza or typhus or a
weak heart. In any case there will be no
mourning in democratic countries only
hopes as to Bulgarian reactions.
The king’s demise was followed by the
outbreak of a general strike in Bulgaria.
Quebec and the "Second
Front."
“Ek Dum”: The joint statement of
Mr. Churchill and Mr. Roosevelt after
the Quebec Conference gave the world
little news. People could look forward to
“great steps to beat down their adversary
—singular, not plural. The U-boat cam-
paign had “rolled over” from the debit to
the credit side. After a poor start the
United Nations were better equipped than
the enemy.
Russia had not been present because
“a considerable part of the discussions
had been about the wqr with Japan,
with which Russia was not at war. But
Russia was being given full details of
the plans against Germany and Italy.
Another British-American conference
would be held before the end of the year,
“in addition to any tripartite meeting it
is possible to arrange with Soviet. Russia.
Meanwhile “the necessary decisions had
been taken for forward action by the
British and American fleets, armies and
air forces.” That was about all.
Mr. Roosevelt promised later that ‘ we
shall communicate the information from
the conference to our enemies in the only
way their twisted minds seem capable of
understanding.”
The Asiatic Command
Developments after Quebec seem to
show that the Anglo-American policy of
opening and shortening sea routes and
air routes, commanding the sea, destroy-
ing basic German war industry and
morale and stabbing the Axis in its soft
spots is paying rich dividends.
The sudden appointment of Lord Louis
Mountbatten to the supreme command in
the area which has always been here
held to be the key to J apanese defeat rather
than the South Pacific, tells the story.
Not merely has the whole face of the
war in the Pacific been changed—and de-
liberately in long-term planning—by
Allied victories on sea and land and in
the air (it was mentioned in American
papers recently that the first ship to
reach Palestine via the Mediterranean
since 1940 had made a safe passage). It
looks very much as if Lord Louis has
been engaged since his appointment as
Chief of Combined Operations (and it
was made not long after Singapore)
largely on the vast preparations in train
for the moment when great naval, air
and land operations would strike into the
very heart of the new Japanese Empire
in the Burma-Malaya-Indonesia region,
with concerted pressure to crack the shell
of the enemy’s defence of conquered ter-
ritories from the outside, so that the New
Order in Asia would finally explode.
All the signs are that Japan has sensed
something of what was going forward, a
fact evidenced by the enemy’s hasty
easing down of operations in China and
in the south by his conservation of naval
and heavier-type air resources, and his
seeming lack of activity in and with-
drawal from the Aleutians.
It is not the custom of the Allies lat-
terly to announce their commanders till
the operations which they are to control
are imminent. Lord Mountbatten’s
appointment was followed by a swift
dash by Mr, Robert Patterson, U.S.
Under-Secretary for War, to New Guinea
to see General MacArthur and by a visit
to New Zealand and Australia by Mrs.
Roosevelt, who visited U.S. troops in
Britain just ahead of the African cam-
paign.
In two months the rains of Southern
Asia will have died down. In three
months there will have returned the
season which the Japanese commanders
considered ideal for an attack on the
Burmese-East Indian-Philippines areas in
1941.
Second Front in Europe
The Quebec discussions were obviously
not held to decide about the immediate
establishment of a second land front in
Western Europe. For, as Moscow’s propa-
gandists who generate the agitation for it
from time to time must know, the prepa-
rations for any such move on a large
scale this year must have begun months
ago. Also such a move must have been
made in full co-ordination with the Rus-
sians, since for success it would be neces-
sary to synchronise organisations on both
east and west of Europe.
Thus either (a) no second front in
Western Europe is in view this year and
Moscow knows that a demand for its
immediate opening is for a complete
naval and military impossibility, or ( b )
preparations have been in progress for
months and the Soviet Government
knows all about them and is trying to
blind the enemy to what is going forward.
Bombing Losses
The second-front newspaper element
is the same which compelled the
Air Ministry recently to defend itself
against the spread of criticism of the loss
of bombers in Germany in raids which in
the whole of this year have not cost nearly
so many lives as the Dieppe raid.
The Air Ministry pointed out:
The object of all our operations by air,
sea and land is to end this war by the total
defeat of Germany, in the shortest possible
time, with minimum loss to ourselves
Our present onslaughts upon, say, the Krupp
works at Essen, or upon Berlin or Dort-
mund, are really each of them major
battles, assaults carried out by great forces
upon massive defences At present
we have forced the Germans to keep three
times as many troops at home in Germany,
manning their anti-aircraft guns and search-
lights, as they have in their army in
Tunisia altogether. They have oyer three
times as many night fighters defending Ger-
many against our bombers as they haye in
the whole of the Mediterranean and Rus-
sian theatres of war put together.
It was recalled that in the second battle
of Arras in the last war —“to take an
example of a battle which was then con-
sidered a great success” —the British
suffered 148,000 casualties in 48 hours ;
while in the three great raids on Essen
early in the present year “we lost under
400 men, a proportion prisoners of war.’
We sent four times as many aircraft over
Germany this year as last year, but the
rate of loss [of machines and men] is less.
....We were able to drop over double the
tonnage of bombs on Germany for every
aircraft lost this year as we could last
year .'...the rate of loss per ton of bombs
dropped is, for the time being, only half
what it was last year. What an achieve-
ment in face of such facts as that in the
same period Germany has been compelled
to double her night fighters! Let us
never doubt that, however much we grieve
for every single airman that we lose, not
one man lost upon our bombing offensive
has died in vain. We may be certain that
each airman lost has saved the lives of
tens or hundreds or even thousands of the
soldiers and sailors of the United Nations.
In brief:
The Japanese Admiral Koga, according to
Chungking, has perished aboard his flagship m
the New Britain area. Berlin Radio quoted
Tokyo as confirming news of his death as the
result of an accident in the course of duty and
of his posthumous promotion. In May Koga
succeeded Admiral Yamamoto, described as
having been killed in a warplane “in the very
front lines of the South.”
* * * *
Three German destroyers made a cold-
blooded attack on two helpless Swedish fishing
boats off the north-west tip of Denmark on the
night of August 25. Both vessels were flying
the Swedish flag, but the Germans sank them
with shellfire at 50 yards’ range, killing 12
harmless fishermen. Denmark is only about
35 miles from the Swedish port of Gothenburg
in the region where the boats were sunk.
* * * *
Cruising over the Mediterranean, F.O. J. S.
Hayden, of Townsville (Q-), lopped off an
Italian schooner’s mast with his Beaufighter.
Attacked by Focke-Wulfs, he had to take water
with a damaged starboard engine and under-
carriage. He and his navigator were rescued.


I
1
j;.. ml IS
; ; : : : ; :v •:
BH 1
:
>m
m
K
HOTEL METROPOLE
Bent, Phillip and Young Streets, Sydney.
Jx.'"
wm
r'
jlO*
liti jl Ip!j[|
pi it
fljllii
ill
mm
ill
o*f H
' (
m*
Modern high-ch'ss accommodation
at a moderate tariff. Hot and cold
water and telephone in all rooms.
Rooms with private Bathrooms
available. Meals at moderate rates—
unexcelled cuisine—Dining Rooms,
Grill Room, Banquet Room and
Wintergarden, together with a first-
class orchestra.
ROOMS-ONLY RATES.
Single Rooms from 7/- per night
Double Rooms from 13/- per night
Telegrams, Cables and Wireless:
“METROPOLE,” Sydney.
Telephones: 8W2061 (9 lines)
86363 (4 lines)
SPORTING NOTIONS
(Conducted by "PILOT")
Rosehill was packed on Saturday when
the Canterbury Guineas meeting was held
at that track. Except at Randwick Chief
Secretary Baddeley will have difficulty in
accommodating his “bigger than Mel-
bourne Cup crowd” when the S.T.C. gets
going. The tote turnover was £48,284.
Tel Asur was moving up in the Flying
Handicap when he fell near the three
furlongs, bringing down Kingsdale and
Pancho and disorganising the horses
behind them, but if there had been no
mishap Arahura (Thompson) would have
won just the same. Third to Martheus
and High Flight early in the piece, she
had the race safe even before she settled
Irish Sea at the leger. Silverelda and
Prince, in the minor places, ran well with-
out either looking a winner, while Rim-
veil, whose favoritism was something of
a surprise, did not shine at any part and
finished sixth. Industry, with a 71b. allow-
ance, was never sighted, and High Flight,
after dropping back to fifth nearing the
turn, was in that position at the finish.
He was not suited by the way his stable
companion, Martheus, carried him along
in the early stages.
Chatham’s Choice attempted to lead all
the way in the Turf Club Handicap, but,
disadvantaged by his rider getting his foot
out of his near stirrup when Haripur ran
up to him, was comfortably beaten by
Shining Night, who, quietly handled by
Bartle for the first seven furlongs, did not
get into a winning position until the turn
was reached. Colonel Post had every
chance, but, though third into the straight,
failed to run on. Two’s Company’s
weight had her anchored a long way from
home, and Salivant’s showing suggested
that for the time being he has had enough
racing.
Third to Castle Frontenac and West
Point for a few furlongs in the Canter-
bury Guineas, Moorland took charge
from West Point soon after entering the
straight, and then had no difficulty in
stalling off Mayfowl, who was always in
a handy position. Craigie did well in
third place, and probably spoilt a good
chance of winning a handicap. Of the
remainder little that is favorable can be
written, though up to a mile West Point
may be worth keeping in mind for a
handicap.
Seemingly most distances come alike
to Katanga (Munro). He won the six fur-
longs Canterbury Stakes as he pleased
after Yaralla and Hall Stand had raced
together in front to the straight entrance.
Even with his 141 b. allowance it was a
surprise to see Nobleman in second place,
while the way Yaralla weakened in the
run home definitely proved that he needs
thoroughly firm going to be seen at his
best. Without threatening danger Modu-
lation did sufficiently well to suggest that
the spring meeting at Randwick is likely
to see him back to form. Abspear did
no better than could be expected in a
sprint race.
Halfway down the straight in the first
division of the Three-year-old Handicap
Cosmetic and Moresby led from Enthuse.
It looked as if the last-named might be
shut in when attempting to get through
on the rails, but Johnson, quickly sizing
up the situation, pulled her out, and she
won in very easy fashion from Orator
(by Chatham) and Moresby, with Cos-
metic and Chinook heading the remainder.
Chinook was slow off the mark, and was
a long way back after going a couple of
furlongs, but, even if luckier in running,
it is improbable he would have beaten
Enthuse. Steadfast was in the betting,
but as he was wide out at the barrier
that made his failure to do better excus-
able.
Tarmac, a supposed “good thing” for
the second division of the Three-year-
old Handicap, gave her backers an in-
different run, and after Certitude and
Turn Again (Duncan) had done the early
pacemaking the last-named won com-
fortably from Peerless Lad, who was
always fairly placed. Royal Peer was a
moderate third, succeeded by Denton,
who made up leeway in the straight after
commencing slowly. The winner, who is
trained by J. King, is by Hua from Peal
o’ Bells, dam of Dick Whittington. His
yearling price was only 135gns. Cer-
titude, who is by Hall Mark, showed
pace, and Caladin also ran respectably.
In the Bankstown Handicap Air Link
(Munro) upset the calculations of many
followers of form. Ridden by Mulley in
the race won by Rylstone at Randwick
the previous week, Air Link was last in
a field of 11, but after being fourth or
fifth into the straight on Saturday he shot
through on the rails, and bolted away
from his opponents, winning by half a
dozen lengths from Dick Whittingtom.
A demonstration was not surprising. It
was explained that his poor showing at
Randwick was due to getting hit in the
eye with a clod of mud early in the race.
After leading to the turn Rylstone and
Valiant Garde tired, but they set such a
sound pace that the time was a second
faster than Moorland recorded in the
Guineas.
•P 'i s
Illyrian, a place-getter in the Victorian
Derby and St. Leger, won the first race
of his career when he defeated Londoner
and Huntingdale in the Ascot Spring
Cup, run at Mentone on Saturday. His
form was a big improvement on his dis-
play at Flemington a week earlier, when
he finished tenth to Huntingdale, but his
starting price of 33 to 1 indicated that
the stable was not particularly keen on
his chance. Illyrian had paid his way in
place-money before Saturday’s success,
which was worth £7OO, and is a bargain
at the 150gns. he cost his joint-owners.
He carried only 7.6, however, was lucky
to beat Londoner by a neck, and will
have to show further improvement to
win the Caulfield Cup with 8.6.
Burberry, runner-up in the last New-
market, survived a protest after defeat-
ing Phildoll in the Chesterfield Handi-
cap. He was racing for the first time
since a spell, but was the medium of sub-
stantial support, and fought back gamely
after Phildoll had looked to have him
beaten. Burberry is known only as a
sprinter, but is expected by his connec-
tions to develop staying form this spring.
He has been backed for the Caulfield
Cup, in which he has 8.4. Dark Felt,
racing over a distance too short for him,
was a fast-finishing seventh to Burberry,
and promises to be as good as, if
not better than, last spring, when he won
the Moonee Valley Cup and ran fourth
in the Melbourne Cup.
Amana, racing for the first time since
December, was backed confidently at re-
munerative odds to win the Inverness
Handicap. He was beaten narrowly by
the more-seasoned Mandoric, to whom he
conceded 241 b., but should derive con-
siderable benefit from the race, and may
develop into a Caulfield Cup danger.
Brother Bill, fifth, ran well while his con-
dition lasted, and lost none of his Cup ad-
mirers. Trilaw, a lightly-raced five-year-
old gelding by Law Maker, and a candi-
date for both Cups, surprised by beating
Mario and Golden Gift in the Anglesey
Handicap. He started at 25 to I with
the books, but returned odds of 128 to 1
on the win tote.
* * * *
The V.A.T.C. has knocked the Debu-
tante Stakes out of its spring programme,
and, increasing the value of the Debu-
tant Stakes to £l5OO, has again opened
it to fillies. Stakes for the V.A.T.C.’s
two days’ Caulfield Cup meeting total
£16,350, but divisions may add to that
sum.
* % * *
Arahura’s win at Rosehill last week
had almost, if not quite, as much merit
in it as that of Magi at Randwick, and
her weight drops to 7.8 —31b. more than
when, as a three-year-old, she was second
to Tuhitarata in the 1942 Doncaster. She
could not have won much easier, and
carried 7.12 to the 8.9 of Industry, who,
with 9.0, was second to Magi (7.11) in
the latter’s race at Randwick. Of those
behind Arahura Prince was doing better
than any at the finish, but he will meet
Arahura only a pound better in the
Epsom. In the last Epsom Prince was
fifth with 7.10, just ahead of Rimveil,
9.8.
Katanga has shown so much dash in
his last two races that it is said he may
now be trained for the Epsom, in which
he has 9.8. That may be, but the chances
are that the Colin Stephen Stakes, of
£l3OO, on the same day as the
Epsom will eventually be chosen. It
would be a better proposition for him
than the latter with his big weight.
Nobleman, second to Katanga at Rose-
hill, meets him 101 b. better, and is 21b.
better off compared with Hall Stand, who
outstayed Yaralla for third, and also
showed that he retained his pace. Air
Link ran away with the Bankstown Han-
dicap in good time considering the track
was on the slow side, but the Epsom will
be hard for him.
Shining Night did so well in the Turf
Club Handicap at Rosehill that, with
131 b. less to carry, he is certain to play
a prominent part in the decision of the
Metropolitan. The lower scale will help
him, and it seems as if those he beat can
be dismissed, though a drop of a stone
will benefit Two’s Company, who docs
not look a weight-carrier. Colonel Post's
run did not say much for his Metro-
politan chance. He will meet Shining
Night 61b. worse. In fact, nothing out-
side the latter showed Metropolitan form.
Now that Moorland has proved he can
run a solid nine furlongs, he may be the
Rosehill Guineas favorite, even with the
addition of Flight, War Eagle and Tribal
to that field. In the Canterbury Guineas ;
he outpaced Mayfowl and did the better
over the last furlong. It was inferred by
some of the latter’s backers that the result
might have been different if McMena-
min’s fall in the Flying Handicap had
not prevented him taking the mount, but
no fault could be found with the way
Allen handled Mayfowl. Furthermore,
Moorland looked as if the race might
benefit him more than Mayfowl. The
Guineas appeared to dispose of the pre-
tensions of Tennessee as a first-class colt,
though it is possible the Derby may upset
form at shorter distances.
On Hobartville Stakes running War
Eagle reads like beating Flight and Tribal
in the Rosehill Guineas, but he is not as
fast a beginner as Moorland, and whether
he is the latter’s master at nine furlongs
remains to be proved.
* * * *
If there is further alteration in regu-
lations connected with horse-racing the
question of postponements should receive
consideration. As things stand, very un-
favorable weather practically forces aban-
donment of a meeting on a club. Fortu-
nately that rarely happens, but such a
possibility should be taken into account.
It would be Tough on owners, trainers
and the club if the A.J.C. should have to
drop a day of its big meetings because
of rain. In the circumstances mentioned
it would be only fair to utilise raceless
Saturdays, instead of losing two days in
a month.
Miscellaneous
Main interest in the V.F.L. games
centred at Essendon, where the Richmond
Tigers revelled in the heavy going and
trounced the ’Dons 14.14 to 10.11. At
North Melbourne Hawthorn fought hard
to make the final “four,” but was downed
by one point, 8.11 to 7.16. Fitzroy took
the lead in the second half against Carl-
ton and held it, 12.12 to 10.9. Mel-
bourne’s pace proved too much for Col-
lingwood, 16.17 to 14.17, and “Sowth”
beat Footscray 10.19 to 10.6. “The four’
are Richmond, Essendon, Fitzroy and
Carlton.
* * H=
Manly and East, the two leading Rugby
Union teams, were hard pressed on Satur-
day. Manly emerged somewhat dazed
from a grim 9-9 draw with West, and St.
George scored three tries to one against
East, though it ended 11-11. Manly, East,
Randwick and West are in the semi-
finals ; the Villagers are minor premiers
in the three grades—a record. Other
games:
University 14, Parramatta 9; Randwick 30,
Drummoyne 10; North 8, Gordon 6.
Jk ❖ % i\i
Well-matched Sydney lightweights are
Jim Fraser and Ron Warner. Each had
shaded the other before their third con-
test at Leichhardt, and the thing was
almost close enough to be called a draw.
Though a bit limp in the eighth, Fraser
had the better of it afterwards, and got
the decision.
Harry Cohen’s career as amateur boxer
ended in 1936, when he gave up a trip to
the Berlin Olympic Games to turn pro-
fessional. His career as pro. ended at the
Sydney Stadium on Saturday night when
Les Fitzgerald knocked him out in seven
rounds. He could not get away from
Fitz’s rights, which were landed at Fitz’s
will.


Women's Letters
From Melbourne
Last week the city looked like Hamelin
Town when the piper was holding his
parade. School holidays have freed chil-
dren temporarily from the daily grind,
and shopping expeditions with mother
and visits to “the pictures” are bringing a
swarm citywards each day. One result is
a decided overcrowding of restaurants, as
the young consider lunch in town the
pinnacle of the perfect day. The amount
the average te'n-year-older can put away
causes other diners considerable intaking
of breaths, and the bounds fixed by
austerity are quickly reached.
‘ Come the peace Melbourne should be
a quieter place and the average city
worker less battered, physically and men-
tally. The Tramways Board plans to sub-
stitute trams for buses in Bourke-street,
and silent ones at that. Rubber-cushioned
silent trams made on an American model
will then be put on to all the city’s lines.
The banishing of the daily noise which
rises from the centre of the city should
please those whose offices flank tramlines.
As it is, the sound of their progress makes
all but sign language futile. The demise
of the buses, too, will be a major bless-
ing, as no one has yet discovered a way
of getting sufficiently inside the monster
for comfort and yet near enough to the
door to alight in time.
Among the many proud mothers who
watched midshipman sons parade at the
passing-out ceremony for naval cadets
was Mrs. J. Burnett, wife of the gallant
captain of the Sydney. Mrs. Burnett had
a double interest in the parade, as two
sons were among the trim, brass-buttoned
ranks. Passing-out day is a great occa-
sion for small sisters of cadets. They
seem to be always among the most en-
thusiastic of lookers-on at these events,
and usually bring along a couple of small
friends to share brother’s glory.
Suburban councils and small private
groups are going in for children’s
libraries. These are planned to meet the
needs of youngsters from the “this-is-a-
cat” stage up to the 16-year-old who
wants a line on Matisse and the truth
about Trotsky. Prahran Municipal Coun-
cil has a Children’s Library to be proud
of, and makes it the centre for allied
activities. Another council in the same
line of endeavor is Hawthorn, where the
Mayor told the assembled young mem-
bers last week (with robes and chain to
make a solemn occasion of it) about the
council’s plans for a very much bigger,
better and brighter library for their use
after the war.
An unofficial group is doing the same
job for the young in the Heidelberg
district, where one of the most energetic
organisers is Dr. Hilda Heffernan. Ex-
perience as mother and grandmother and
half a lifetime of medical practice have
given her an insight into intellectual needs
of children and a strong interest in giv-
ing them the best that can be given. Like
many another mother she finds this work
a solace during the anxious waiting for
news of her son, University athlete Bill
Heffernan, now an R.A.A.F. pilot, who
has been posted “missing.”
The French community and many
other friends in this city will be sorry to
say “au revoir” to Madame Laporte, who
is accompanying her husband, Comman-
dant Laporte, Liaison Officer for General
de Gaulle in the Pacific, back to London.
During her stay here she has been an
active worker in many good causes, and
was one of those responsible for the
remarkable success of the Fighting French
Easter Shop, which made a quite pheno-
menal sum for the welfare of French
forces in these parts.
A tribute to the personal popularity of
the entertainers was the great turnout to
the two concerts Elsie Fraser, Isabel Bid-
dell and Gordon McKeown gave for Red
Cross and A.C.F. funds. The first show,
some weeks ago, raised over £lOO, and
the three were urged to give another for
the good cause. The second concert last
i week produced the same healthy round
sum and a bit over. Elsie Fraser and
Gordon McKeown got off the beaten
track with two-pianoforte duets. Isabel
Biddell raised her contralto voice in lieder
by Brahms and Rachmaninoff.
The end-of-the-year summing up of
Air Force House activities underlined the
fact that the lasses who make a voluntary
: war job of tidying up hostel dormitories
do particularly solid work. With a weekly
average of well over 2000 beds to make
the A.F.H. helpers who find time to fit
in this work on free mornings while doing
other full-time work are real heroines of
the home front. The housewife who
finds three or four beds a fag every
morning can imagine the sinking feeling
that assails the war-workers who have to
de£d w j hundreds.
~ , „
Ballet-lovers whoNe been living in a
u f nr manv
state c| f cultural starvation tor man>
months wiu be able to find some solace in
the Symphonic Ba n e t programme the
Symphony Orchestra will put on to-
morrow afternoon under Bernard
Heinze ’ s baton Re d Cross funds will
benefit by balletomane enthusiasm.
Pianist Una Bourne will be soloist. Pro-
2ramme wiI j j nc i ude Tschaikowsky’s
« Fifth » which means to balletomanes
Fes p resa g es ” and “The Gods Go
a-Begging,” so popular here as a ballet.
Holdi the fort with thc A.A.M.W.S.
all . time but p at Beaucha mp ;
ictured here b ' s er shier , found a
* are minutes t 0 announce her en-
*ent to John Lew is to their large
“ ir = |c o£ £riends since schoo |days at
MQ Q s skWn£ has been Pa f s favorite
hobby, and she was always among the
stalwarts who made the heights of Bulier
or Hotham each winter. She is the
daughter of Mr. and Mrs. G. L. Beau-
champ, of Brighton. Fiance, who is the
twin son of Mr. and Mrs. R. O. Lewis,
recently graduated from Melbourne Uni.
in law, and is at present with a city legal
firm.
The constant stream of raffles—-“two
bottles of sherry and a turkey for six-
pence, ladies and gentlemen”—is having a
somewhat baffling effect on the minds of
the young. A stern servant of the Tram-
ways Board gave the “present tickets”
order the other day in a city-bound tram,
and the adult passengers who’d been
brought up in the days when children
were seen and not heard began to wear
that guilty air that the perfectly law-abid-
ing always wear when asked to prove
their innocence. Not so the small
daughter of a shopping-bound mother.
“Mummy, why does the man take our
tickets and look at them and give them
back to us?” she asked. “Is there a lucky
number?” The strained faces of her
elders relaxed.
When the vice-regal lady declares the
Women’s Hospital Nursery opened on
Friday the deed will be a purely formal
one. Several hundreds of children passed
through the nursery last week, and their
daily numbers are increasing as the days
go on. There were 50 or 60 when the
nursery opened (unofficially), and now
there are a hundred. The period of the
children’s stay in the nursery depends on
how long mother or big sister takes to
see the doctor or undergo treatment.
The nursery is for the children of out-
patients, as it has been found that sick
mothers who had to bring their children
with them worried so much that their
response to treatment was affected.
The announcement of her engagement
three days before the rice-and-bells event
made shopping a major strategic opera-
tion for Rita Ross, but she successfully
achieved a wedding ceremony with all
the trimmings of bridesmaid and formal
frock on Saturday. Bridegroom Lieut.
John Knaggs, A.1.F., was assisted by fel-
low-officer Capt. R. M. Dickie, A.1.F.,
and a Highland piper added a guid
Scots flavor. Rita, who is the daughter of
Mr. and Mrs. J. C. Ross, of Dava Lodge,
Mornington, is in training as a nurse.
Lieut. Knaggs is the son of Mr. and Mrs.
T. T. Knaggs, of Malvern.
Friends are marking the calendar at
a date early in September which Dr.
Elizabeth Kenny has announced as the
happy occasion for St. Patrick’s wedding
to Dr. Bill MacGregor. Both are well
known and very popular in this city and
linked with many sides of its affairs.
From Sydney
With characteristic swiftness, having
decided to visit Australasia, Mrs. Roose-
velt, wife of the President of the U.S.A.,
is practically on Australia’s doorstep.
Last week-end, unheralded and unsung,
she dropped into Auckland (M.L.)
from an air transport command Libera-
tor cargo ’plane that left America
with about a ton of soldier mail. Within
a few minutes she was broadcasting to
the people of Maoriland. This week there
is no other woman in the news. This
visitor has been eagerly awaited since
June, when she dedicated the Anzac
Garden on the roof of the British Empire
Building, Radio City, New York ; and
Minister for External Affairs H. V. Evatt,
in America on a mission, said he was
sure he spoke for all Australians and
Maorilanders in expressing the hope that
Mrs. Roosevelt might soon visit both
countries.
On her return from America Mrs. Evatt
spoke of the warm, emotion-conveying
tones of Mrs. Roosevelt’s voice—she is
said to have the most' perfect radio
voice for speaking in America. An
American traveller tells that Mrs. Roose-
velt is well above medium height, has a
good complexion, blue-grey eyes and soft
brown hair, now greying. - She radiates
good health and energy, and has the
gracious manner that bespeaks the wed-
ding of quick brain and warm friendli-
ness. Her interest in women’s war work
is of the active as well as the cheering-on
type. On one occasion, having been in-
vited to inspect a demonstration of
women’s A.R.P., the President’s lady did
not content herself with looking pleasant
and shaking hands with the head serang.
To everybody’s delight she went through
the operations and manoeuvres even to
scaling those tall fire ladders. One sus-
pects that her hand is behind, if not actu-
ally in, the planting of the Victory Gar-
den in Washington.
Mrs. Roosevelt writes a daily news-
paper column, and because of that has
joined the American Newspaper Guild.
She broadcasts. She holds regular press
conferences. All the moneys from broad-
casts and* newspaper writings go to
charity. Her clothes are so perfect in
toning that one only recalls she is a well-
dressed woman.
One of the city’s young pianists who
is entitled to a few laurels in the hair is
Vaila Pender. Vaila, a pupil of Laurence
Godfrey Smith, played in the recent series
of orchestral concerts for children
arranged by the A.8.C., Bernard Heinze
conducting. For the duration Vaila is
doing a national-service job at Sydney
University. Russell Roberts photograph.
Kinneil, old Elizabeth Bay residence,
was turned into a club for Australian
and Allied officers last Wednesday after-
noon. There was a band on the lawn
to the left and a guard of honor on the
lawn to the right as guests entered the
gateway on Elizabeth Bay-road. On the
verandah were two long rows of chairs
for citizens of credit and renown. The
chairs of the front row, straight and
leather-upholstered, were probably for the
biggest and best citizens; those in the
back row were of brown wicker. Like
the prosperous houses of its period
Kinneil’s verandahs and balconies are
impressive with pillars. Flags fluttered
about the balcony; a cold draught
swooshed along the verandah.
Invitation cards said a quarter to three,
but the Governor was not due to make
the opening speech and cut the ribbon
till three o’clock. Just previous to then
importants like Archbishop Mowll,
Minister for the Army Forde and former
Mayor Stanley Crick and his wife began
to arrive. Mayor Bartley and his
Mayoress, Cyril Docker, the Town Clerk
and Frank Crane were already in place,
for the club is a fledgling of the Australian
Comforts Fund. Mrs. Sam Jones, untir-
ing worker for the Anzac Buffet and
president of the Kinneil House Com-
mittee, was among the noted. Men and
women of the services were there in
numbers, General Fewtrell and Admiral
Muirhead-Gould among them.
Lady Wakehurst came with the
Governor, and faithfully did the upstairs
and downstairs. The lounge has some
very good Australian paintings on its
walls. Great dull-pink bowls of flowers,
lots of easy chairs upholstered in old-
rose repp, turquoise curtains and here
and there a turquoise cushion make a
restful color scheme. One end of the
dining-room is almost entirely long win-
dows —a nice frame for the old Moreton
Bays in the garden and a glimpse of
Elizabeth Bay. Highly commended was
the hall carpet —its wine ground spattered
with autumn leaves. There are billiard,
writing and reading rooms, and the floor of
one of the larger rooms has been prepared
for dancing. The charges are reasonable.
Stephanie Edye will perform character
dances and the Independent Theatre
Group will present a one-act comedy,
“Heaven on Earth,” on September 3 at the
Conservatorium in aid of the King
George Fund for Sailors.
Dmitri Shostakovich’s “Leningrad”
Symphony was the star item of the
A.B.C. orchestral concert last week. The
work, which lasts for about 80 minutes,
was almost the entire programme. It
alternately glittered in striking reitera-
tion or sounded limpid with quiet beauty.
It was written during the siege of Lenin-
grad. The concert benefits the Medical
Aid and Comforts to Russia Fund.
The Town Hall was crowded, music-
lovers travelling from the remotest
suburbs to hear the much-discussed
work. Bernard Heinze was the conductor.
The vestibule of the Town Hall was ail
animation. Young girls in Russian
peasant costume, their hair garlanded
and beribboned, sold programmes to help
the fund. Lord and Lady Wakehurst
were in the audience ; with them Soviet
Minister A. P. Vlasov, who had dined at
Government House. Also in the official
party was Mrs. Jessie Street, president
of the concert committee. Mrs. Hope
Gibson and Mrs. Robert Dixson, who
had organised the concert, were there, as
was secretary Mrs. M. Barton.
While the Overseas League in Sydney
was celebrating the League’s 33rd birth-
day in its rooms overlooking the stony
facades of Martin-place, the League in
London was being festive in its lovely
clubrooms overlooking the Green Park.
Head Chieftainess Lady Willingdon and
secretary Eric Rice broadcast greetings,
and these came direct to the Sydney party
in the 8.8. C. news. That was the moment
to which the mountains of savories and
sandwiches, the fruit drinks and the
sherries had led. Immediately followed
a talk by R. G. Menzies, M.P. Forceful,
direct and simple, it was Mr. Menzies at
his best, Empire unity its theme. There
were nearly 200 guests. President Keith
Smith and his wife (her ensemble of sdft
greys), assisted by secretary Kathleen
Gaden, received the guests.
Up in New Guinea men are fighting,
sometimes dying, always suffering hard-
ship for their ideal of what a world should
be. Undeterred by all this, many of them
are turning their thoughts to art. Some
of these men have never painted or drawn
before, some of them have been art
students, some advertising-poster artists.
A collection of their work is on view in
David Jones’s auditorium. This was
opened last Tuesday afternoon. Ameri-
can and Australian generals were present,
and America’s Consul-General uttered the
magic formula. He said, among other
things, that having already opened an art
show the previous week, and having still
another in a week or so’s time to unfold
to the public gaze, he felt rather like the
man in the story who asked his friends:
“Say, have you heard my last speech?”
and the friends’ reply: “No, we wish we
had! ”
The wife of Attorney-General Evatt
represented her husband, and flashed a
bright smile. The Charles Lloyd Jones
couple were there, and Mrs. Charley and
Dame Constance D’Arcy were among
the smart-looking women. Mrs. Jones’s
three-quarter coat was mink, her frock
of black angora. Dame Constance’s coat
was grey and fitting, and her bunny-grey
hat was stabbed from north to south by
a grey quill. There were many Allied
service women, and a ballot as to the
most-liked picture stimulated interest in
the art on the walls. Mrs. Reg Stafford,
blonde and black-clad, made her choice
with painstaking care. “Dinkum,” an
Australian soldier seen through an Ameri-
can’s eyes, a pencil sketch of the Old
Man,” a sketch of a native boy ironing,
very proud of the electric iron, and
“Night Fighter,” a soldier intent on the
slaughter of mosquitoes, will cheer.
Native boats, Javanese dancing and native
villages supply color. “Writing Home,
the sketch of a soldier busy by the
light of a hurricane lamp, has the right
touch of sentiment. One or two heads
of Papuans are impressive.


a scrap of paper
.... but in the eveht of your
death a most important document
which will provide security for
your dependants. Without delay
see the Equitable Probate and
General Insurance Company for
expert advice on protection for
your family.
Be prepared—Be assured.
[EQUITABLE PROBATE)
AND GENERAL INSURANCE CO LTD,
Head Office: 371-373 Queen St., Brisbane
Wingello House, Angel Place, Sydney.
Collins House, Collins Street, Melbourne.
R. V. PERRINS, General Manager.
j „
tinr
Promote new growth with McMahon's
Hair Restorer . . . easy to apply,
economical and pleasant to use. Mc-
Mahon's Hair Restorer is quickly effec-
tive in cases of falling hair, baldness,
alopecia patches, scalp dryness. Ex-
cellent for dandruff, which goes I.n a
few applications. Harmless to the
most delicate skin. Use McMahon's,
too, for keeping the hair lustrous and
soft.
Obtainable from Chemists, Hair-
dressers and Stores.
Wholesale: Craig & Aitken Pty. Ltd.,
Sydney.
HAIR RESTORER
Every piece of leather saved
is a step
ne
m
m
KIWI
TODAY'S SHOE
SAVING TIP
Have your shoe repairer fit steel tips to your heels
and toes . this will materially lengthen the life
of your shoes, and save repairs, too!
ƒ
Ruwolt
■
The first 25-Pdr. Gun Howitzer made in Australia.
As Major Co-ordinating Contractors in Victoria,
Ruwolt’s, together with many Sub-contractors, have the dis-
tinction of producing the first 25-Pdr. Gun Howitzer ever
made in Australia.
Since that gun was successfully tested, many more have
been produced at Ruwolt’s.
Although now mainly engaged on munition work we
are also able to execute much of the requirements for the
essential Metal, Paper and Rubber Industries.
Then, when Australia has successfully overcome its
present difficulties, we will again be in a position to im-
mediately attend to all your requirements, similarly to what
we have done in the past.
CHARLES RUWOLT PTY. LTD.
530 Victoria Street, Richmond, E.l
Victoria, AUSTRALIA.
SMOKE-OH!
“My right hip is more prominent than my
left. It seems to me as if my whole trunk is
not straight.”— lnquirer in woman’s paper.
Sounds like a case of elephantiasis.
•b *b *b 4*
“Sports trousers, bluish, \ by 32. And slide
rule. Both as new.” — Advt. in suburban rag.
All made to measure.
b b b
“ ‘Oh, Uncle!’ said Betty. ‘He’s gone to bed
with his scold.” — “Sun.”
Betty had no right to refer to her aunt
so. disrespectfully.
b °b •!" *b
“Her husband had once rubbed a packet of
(lour into her hair, tipped a bucket of water
over it, and mixed it into dough.”
—Wife in divorce.
Putting a damper on her, eh?
“Colonel-General Hans Jeschonek, Chief-of-
Staff of the German Air Force and intimate of
Reichsmarshal Goring, died at Luftwaffe head-
quarters after a short but severe illness.”
—Berlin Radio.
Lead poisoning, say?
. *l* -I* -I* 4*
“George glowered in silence at the newspapers
he had already twice read. He was getting
madder every minute.” — “Sun.”
Obviously.
-b 4* 4* 4*
“Fuming, she rounded on him.” — “Sun:”
And he naturally squared off.
‘‘Then remove saucepan from heat and stand
aside with lid on for 20 minutes.” — “Sun.”
But wouldn’t it be quicker and just as
reverent to say a simple grace?
*b
“The former fabulous days of the movies are
gone for ever.”— “Woman”
But the old plots are still going strong.
*F *b *b •i-
Sdent as a cat, he crept over the front lawn.
Within a few seconds he had crept through the
open window, and now, knife in hand, he was
creeping stealthily towards the victim’s room.”
—Crime magazine.
One of those creepy stories, eh?
.t.
“It was not until Sonia had run way with
another man that John realised how expensive
she had begn.”— Short story.
The dear departed.
Allegory.
If Murder made a tryst with Death
While Horror made a tryst with Pain,
And Slander breathed her fetid breath
A bove the bed where Hope was slain ;
And then, if Anger filled the air
With murmurs of impending Gloom,
I wonder, spite of Grim Despair,
If Destiny would strangle Doom !
T. W. NATHAN.
Recompense.
I’ve a cold in my head
And I’m feeling half-dead;
Still, there’s one great advantage for me.
Why, for once, I don’t know
That the people below
Are again cooking cabbage for tea.
FLATTIE.
The Non-drinkers.
“These two men no longer drink beer or
whisky. They meet as before, and are as
pleasant and sociable as ever, enjoying one
another’s company. They have discovered that
they are better without liquor.”
—Temperance paper.
Watching the meetings of these two
men has frequently given me delight.
“Hullo, Ted!” hails one heartily.
“What luck meeting you! I was just
hot going to have a tiddley. What about
joining me?”
“Too right, I won’t!” says Ted. “Where
shan’t we go, Tom?”
As they don’t drink they don’t go to
a pub, of course. Just to keep to the
formalities they walk twenty paces down
the street and carry on from there.
“How about not having another,
Tom?” says Ted shortly. “It’s my shout.’
“Well, I expect I have time to refuse
another spot,” says Tom. “I’ve got to
keep an appointment at 12.15, though.”
So they start talking about the price
of fish and the weather and even, when
other interesting subjects peter out, their
wives. Then Tom says; “Hullo, it’s gone
twelve. Let’s not have just one more and
then I’ll have to get.”
About 4.30 Ted says “Good Lord, look
at the time! We came here just not to
have one drink, and we must have not
had a dozen at least. I’ll have to go.”
“Well, knock back a last snifter before
you do.”
“Oh, orright. As long as you’ll not have
a last one with me before we finish.”
Which means, of course, that they don't
have half a dozen more drinks, and then
get home late with an explanation about
having been kept back at the office.
H. M.
Among the New Season’s Roses.
Regulation. — A remarkably vigorous
grower with strong branching habits. A
sport from Bureaucrat, it is regarded by
everyone but its raiser as a great bloomer.
Inclined to run wild, this thorny specimen
has not found favor with many good
judges. It requires attention out of all
proportion to the results obtained, and
it also attracts countless parasites. Has a
bad habit of wilting under test.
Localcom. —Fiery red overlaid with a
strong yellow streak. Possesses a deep
underground root system. Thriving
mostly in poor-looking soil, it neverthe-
less manages to draw rich nutriment from
mysterious sources. Needs to be kept well
apart from all other varieties, otherwise
those in close proximity are liable to con-
tract die-back and dry rot.
Rationbook. —Tea-scented and butter-
colored, this variety, first raised last year,
is now regarded as a necessary adjunct
to any home. The recently introduced
bedding variety has, however, not proved
popular.
Madame Loofah Potts Point. —Highly
colored, heavily scented and of strong
climbing habit, this variety is particularly
effective for exhibition in the decorative
class. Regarded as a good sort in horti-
cultural and other circles. Bloom shows
up best at night, especially when exhibited
under a soft light, but fades badly towards
morning. A heavy feeder, it requires
heavy pruning to keep its shape. If not
given unremitting attention is liable to
run to seed quickly.
N.M.E. Alien. —For commercial pur-
poses this imported variety is doing very
well in its new sphere. A rapid grower,
if it is allowed to go over the fence it
will choke everything indigenous in the
vicinity. It strongly objects to being kept
in check. Has a bad habit of sweating,
especially when it is grown in backyard
conditions.
Sidney Warfee. —A rapid striker, but if
there is dampness about this variety closes
up immediately. A peculiarity is that,
though it may give poor results on week
days, it will start blooming freely on
Saturday afternoons, Sundays and holi-
days.
BO.


THE OTHER FELLOW'S MIND
The contributor placed first is paid
4|d. per line; all others 2|d. per line.
Education in Politics
I read recently that Prof. A. Edwards,
of Perth, had criticised Australia’s edu-
cational system on the ground that it
gave no general knowledge of politics.
His criticism seems to be quite justified.
I am under 21, and, being a member of
the forces serving outside Australia, I
was entitled to a vote in the election.
But my political knowledge is negligible.
I ask older men why they hold the poli-
tical beliefs they do, but not one has been
able to give me a clear, simple definition
of his political creed.
I have endeavored to read books on
the subject, but they are all dry and un-
appealing. Until I can obtain such know-
ledge by means of clear definitions or
simple interesting literature, I don’t think
I am entitled to a vote. How many
others are in my boat? — Dougall Mac-
Dougall (Q.).
Pay-as-you-eam '
The outcome of the election doesn’t
alter the fact that the “pay-as-you-earn”
principle of taxation is just, sound and
equitable. Without it men who marry
after the war may find themselves in a
sorry pickle. With thousands of girls
earning high wages, many a newly-
married man will find that he will have
to pay his wife’s income tax as well as
his own.
This could not happen under the pay-
as-you-earn system, as when the girl
ceased earning her tax would have been
paid.— Taximeter (S.A.).
Accommodation for Soldiers
Residential accommodation in Sydney
at week-ends, when troops on leave flood
the city seeking a place to sleep, is quite
inadequate. What’s to be done about
providing beds for them?
Numerous buildings in the city have
been “taken over” for Allied army use,
and service hostels have been set up by
public-spirited organisations, but a lot
more remains to be done.
Either more large buildings suitable
for speedy conversion into residentials
must be commandeered or temporary
shelters must be improvised. A service
man on leave should be able to locate a
suitable place to sleep in Sydney at all
times.— Kay (N.S.W.).
Open-air Schooling
I noted in a Brisbane newspaper re-
cently a complaint about an “unfair deal”
giy en AH Souls’ School, Charters Towers
“This school was compelled to camp
on the bank of a river when the buildings
were taken over by the army.”
True enough, but not all the truth. The
school’s health over the eight months
spent in the bush was above the average
standard, and the kids had the time of
their lives. Two open scholarships to
the university were gained that year, and
the highest junior pass was nine As and
two Bs.
It was a risky experiment, but it suc-
ceeded. I should know ; I was there
Stufty (Q.).
“These Eagles” •
“J.H.” (B. 14/7/’43) is right. These
Eagles, the history of the R.A.A.F.
in war, is mediocre. In no way does it
bear comparison with the companion
volumes H.M.A.S. and Soldiering On.
In November last R.A.A.F. personnel
were invited to subscribe for a Christmas
gift book. Christmas presents were a
bigger problem than ever, and this was
just the thing. So thousands paid out
hard cash for These Eagles. In my unit,
which was then conveniently situated
from the postman’s point of view, the
first copies arrived late in January.
Some of the colored plates were upside
down, and the book seems to have been
hurriedly slung together, with little dis-
crimination either in the choice of photo-
graphs or subject matter. Of about 30
pages of illustrations identifiable with
particular fighting fronts, two-thirds are
given to the Middle East; England gets
three and New Guinea two. And to a
large extent the same applies to the script.
The service record of the M.E. squad-
rons is magnificent and unquestioned, but
surely the same can be said of units
engaged elsewhere. Let’s hope that the
next R.A.A.F. publication of this nature
will be prepared a little more thoroughly.
-L A, C. (W.A.).
R.A.A.F. Commissions and Promo-
tions
Your correspondent “G.M.” (B.
4/8/’43) makes three points: (1) that pro-
motions and commissions are not given
on flying ability alone but also on ability
to handle and lead men, (2) that if each
pilot were given a commission the Air
Force would be top-heavy and (3) that
it is for the benefit of a pilot who has
finished his training to spend a time as
a non-commissioned officer. I disagree.
(1) When a pilot is made captain of
an aircraft and is thus placed in command
of its crew, that is an acknowledgment
by the authorities that he not only has
the flying ability necessary but also has
the ability to “handle and lead men.”
His responsibility is heavy. The lives of
highly-trained men and the safety of a
valuable machine are in his care. When
the captain-pilot is of non-commissioned
rank and yet has commissioned officers
amongst his crew, as is frequently the
case, his position is indeed invidious.
While in the air he is in supreme control,
and the success or otherwise of a hazard-
ous mission depends mainly on his skill
and judgment, yet when the machine
lands he salutes the commissioned mem-
bers of his crew, addresses them as “sir”
and returns to a different mess.
(2) If it be a fact that if each pilot
were given a commission the Air Force
would be top-heavy, then surely commis-
“Yes, and what do you think the Governor's lady will say when We tell
her we forgot to bring our butter ration?"
sions should be reserved for those who
earn them in actual service. Is it any
wonder that non-commissioned captain-
pilots with long service eat their hearts
out in frustration when they see commis
sions handed out to men with but a few
months’ training and no operational ex-
perience at all?
(3) If it be true that it is for the benefit
of a pilot to spend a time as an n.c.0.,
then let all pilots finishing their training
start as such.
The experience of Rawdon Hume
Middleton, V.C., whom your correspon-
dent himself quotes, could hardly be
more striking. Enlisting in 1939, he went
to Canada, and on graduation was recom-
mended for a commission. But at the
time of his death in December, 1942, he
ranked as flight-sergeant, notwithstanding
the fact that for 12 months he had been
captain-pilot of a giant Stirling bomber
with a crew of eight, including two com-
missioned officers. The raid during which
he so gloriously gave his life was his
29th in that capacity, and after one more
he would have been due for long leave
and then instructional duties. No higher
tribute to the esteem in which he was
held as a leader could have been given
than was done by several members of
his crew who were already due for such
leave, but who decided to defer it and
remain in the crew until “the skipper has
finished his hops.”
Rawdon Middleton’s promotion to
pilot-officer was announced several
months after his death.—A, M. (N.S.W.).
One Parliament
Only with the abolition of State Par-
liaments and the formation of a single
Parliament possessed of a true national
outlook can Australia become a great
nation. In the past State Parliaments
have rendered valuable service by pro-
moting the interests of the States, and
thus for the development of areas apait
from the south-east. But State Pallia-
ments have long outlived then useful-
ness, and with them should go State
boundaries. A citizen should not look
on himself as a Queenslander oi a Vic-
tonan, but as an Australian.
With the introduction of a sole national
Government uniformity in everything,
from the systems of education and rail-
way gauges to divorce laws and taxation,
could be brought about.
Then we could get down to business,
plan immigration, combat soil erosion,
settle the north and west, wherein
(especially in the Kimberleys and the
Cloncurry-Mount Isa district) lie the best
minerals in the Commonwealth. —E. J. T.
(Q.).
A point that is being overlooked in
the plans for post-war reconstruction is
Parliamentary reform. State Govern-
ments should be abolished entirely. The
number of Senators should be increased
to 12 for each State, with an extra
six to represent the A.C.T., the Northern
Territory and British New Guinea.
Each State should have 12 zones,
each the responsibility of one Senator,
The Federal Territories should be divided
into six zones, with a Senator responsible
f ’
o !Lf a „ , ,
The Senators representing each State
should act as a State Advisory Council,
sitting at the State capitals during the
Parliamentary recess. These duties should
be additional to the present duties of the
Senate.
The manner of election could remain
as at present. The Senators would thus
have a much more practical knowledge
of the State they represent, and would (I
hope) be able to consider bills presented
with a much more practical and realistic
outlook than at present. — Union (Q.).
Jewish Immigrants
“W.C.C.” says he has never met or
heard of a Jewish farmer (B. 11/8/’43).
Conversely, I have, and the one I have
in mind runs, with his sons, an excellent
farm (and no one else’s, as far as I am
aware).
In any case, whatever occupations the
Jews who have been coming here for a
hundred or so years have followed, it
is only natural to assume that some of
their descendants (who must be numer-
ous), in the process of being assimilated
in our race, settled on the land. It would
be unreasonable to assume that they all
stayed in the cities and engaged in com-
mercial undertakings, or qualified for the
professions and trades.
Jews who would be allowed to enter
Australia under a properly organised ex-
tensive immigration scheme would pre-
sumably be selected for their fitness and
aptitude for the job for which they were
being brought here—land settlement.
It would not require “triple barb-wire
fences or border guards” to make immi-
grants with a tendency to wander city-
wards stay put. A deposit from each one,
sufficient to pay for his return voyage,
and a bit over for administrative ex-
penses, to be used to shanghai those who
turned out to be unsatisfactory, would be
an effective means of control.
Apart from these arguments, assuming
that “W.C.C.” agrees that our nation-
born population has shrunk beyond pos-
sibility of recovery for many years to
come, and that there is an urgent need
for more settlers, what other means does
he suggest for adequately increasing our
population by Caucasians within a
reasonable time?— R. H. Parkes (Tas.).
Women in Industry
If women were paid the same rates as
men, about 75 p.c. of all women em-
ployed would disappear from the field in
normal times. Female employees occupy
unshakable places in nearly all branches
of the rag trade, in certain types of office
work and in domestic-type jobs such as
in laundries, eating houses and the like.
In countless other jobs they wouldn’t be
in the race if employers had to pay them
the same as men.
Again, just what do women who
imagine they are cut out to be “career
girls” think they are going to do in later
life? The man, when he gets beyond
really useful work, often very late in life,
can put up with a pot of beer, a smoke
and a yarn on the pub verandah. What
will these extraordinary females do when
they have outgrown their usefulness at
a much earlier stage? Imagine some
factory-working woman, with about 10
years, or 20 years; of manual labor —the
kind previously performed by men —find-
ing herself unable to carry on, and
handed the sack. What will she do for
the balance of her life?
if she gets married in the course of
employment what sort of a mother is she
going to make? A trite question, but
nevertheless vital, and particularly to
Australia.
I don’t think it is possible to imagine
a more deadly blow at the continued sur-
vival of the race than the mass employ-
ment of women in industry as a settled
policy, although the full implications of
the thing don’t appear on the surface. —
R. H. G. (W.A.).
The Australian Short Story
“J.A.C.’s” observations (B. 11/8/’43)
on this subject have my support. The
apparent un-Australianism of short stories
in this country today is hardly
the fault of the story-writer.
It is rather a reflection of
urbanisation. The vast major-
ity of Australians (writers in-
cluded) live their lives remote
from the bush. They are in
Australia, as it were, but not
of it.
Perusal of the newspapers
would give one to understand
that there is very little differ-
ence between Australian life
and, say, American life,
except that Australia seems
even more’ capable of being
its own trumpeter than the
U.S.A. That this much-
publicised and fervently - believed -in
“life” is artificial and harmful to Aus-
tralia’s progress does not alter the fact
that it exists. Its existence seems to be
proved most conclusively by the types of
prose and poetry that Australians are pro-
ducing. Surely it is more true to say that
writers reflect their times rather than that
the times reflect their writers —especially
if there is a grain of truth in the some-
what specious dictum that “Great writers
write their times.”
The artificiality of life today seems to
point to a literary age in which the great
writers will approximate to England’s
satirists, with possibly a revival of roman-
ticism to follow. Almost any develop-
ment would be preferable to the present
literary doldrums, which seem to have
becalmed not only Australia but all the
rest of the world. —O. B. Server (Q.).
The Wattle in Verse
Does not Kipling’s poem “Lichten-
berg,” with its nostalgic refrain —
the smell of the wattle by Lichtenberg,
Riding in, in the rain—
echo more poignantly our national sen-
timent for the wattle than any of the
verse quoted by “J.W.” (B. 11/8/’43)? “It
was all Australia to me” he makes his
N.S.W. trooper confess (the verses are
dedicated to the N.S.W. Contingent at the
Boer War). The poem is typical of Kip-
ling’s remarkable talent for putting him-
self inside the skin of his fellow-man—
he becomes in truth a war-jaded Aus-
tralian loping into Lichtenberg on a tired
horse at the end of a long trek and find-
ing all his weariness and fed-upness sud-
denly focused into plain homesickness by
the scent of wattle heavy on the moist
air.
While on this subject, wasn’t “Banjo”
Paterson guilty of giving our wattle a
most un-Australian name when he wrote
in that most Australian ballad “The
Man from Snowy River” (in the sixth
verse): —
they found the horses by the big mimosa
clump?
I have seen wattle-bloom for sale in
London flower-shops (imported, I think,
chiefly from the south of France), and
they called it “mimosa.” But perhaps
they give that name to some other shrub
in the Snowy River country.—H. S. T.
(N.S.W.).


K
\
*4
Cr
H/di
■Hi
Wtj
rfr
a
S*5T
m
A Part of
m
a sp
.
■R
■
n
ir
w»
1111111
-
r> S'- ...■
A.W.A.’s extensive organisation is
O
to-day engaged in the production
of wireless equipment for the Navy,
Army, Air Force and Merchant Navy.
Buy £lO National Savings Bonds
and War Savings Certificates
■
AMALGAMATED WIRELESS (A'SIA) LIB.
AUSTRALIA’S
NATIONAL WIRELESS
ORGANISATION
