

a
The Bulletin
“The Bulletin,” Vol. 64.—N0. 3300
Wednesday, May 12, 1943
Price 6dL
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.
Seppelts
STONEHENGE.
HE fascination of Stonehenge depends
* largely Upon the mystery surrounding its
Its builders have left np written
record which might have answered the ques-
were the builders of this stone
monument? How was the work done by a
primitive people? For what purpose was the
One, theory is that the
builders were an ancient Neolithic race who
originally came from the shores of the Medi-
terranean. Moving westward they left sub-
stantial traces of their work at Carnac, in
Brittajny, and eventually reached England. In
this connection there is an interesting legend
to the effect that at one time there was an
underground passage between Mont St. Mihel,
in Brittany, and St. Michael’s Mount, in Corn-
wall. The first traces of this people are to
be found at Avebury, which, like Stonehenge,
is also in Wiltshire. Authorities are of the
opinion that the circle at Stonehenge is of later
origin than that at Avebury, owing to the <
fact that the impost or lintel is mortised to
the upright stones —a development not found
either at Carnac or Avebury.
According to one authority, the work was
done by a large number of willing hands, pro-
vided with a plentiful supply of rawhide ropes.
However, this leaves unexplained the tremen-
dous task of placing the lintels on the uprights,
which was found extremely difficult when the
work of restoration was undertaken in 1920.
Some of the tools used by the ancient builders
have been found in various excavations, and
amongst these were quartzite hammers up to
61b. and mauls up to 641 b.
It is (bought that the purpose of these erec-
tions was religious and funerary, for the Hole
Stone marks the midsummer sunrise, while
numerous burial mounds arc to be found near
Stonehenge. It therefore seems likely that this
ancient people assembled here to worship the
sun, and that they buried their dead on what
to them was holy ground.
The upper picture portrays a reproduction
which is in the Salisbury Museum, and the
lower as it appears after the work of restora-
tion in 1920.
Stonehenge is on Salisbury Plain, close to
Amesbury, and the property on which it stands
was presented to the nation by Sir Cecil Chubb
on September 15th, 1918.


Sioru Wrjtmq
This Book FREE to YOU!
STOTT’S CORRESPONDENCE COLLEGE.
100 Russell Street, Melbourne.
Please send, without obligation, your A 'em Frr
booklet, explaining how to Write for frufii, «
advertised in the Sydney. “ bulletin,
My Same
My Address
S.B, IM3 ,
• AGrE
The Red Page
THE WORLD OF BOOKS .
Although it is chiefly designed
lo remind politicians and others that
books are vital to the life of the nation,
John Brophy’s Britain Needs Books
(National Book Council, London) has
enough facts and anecdotes about the
world of books to make it an interesting
piece of general reading. There is, for
instance, a full account of the effect of
the blitz on the book trade.
It may be fairly common knowledge
that “a total of twenty million volumes
destroyed would probably be an under-
estimate” ; also that, owing to the destruc-
tion of Simpkin, Marshall’s, the leading
wholesale house, the English retail trade
would have fallen into chaos but for the
activities of the Publishers’ Association,
which promptly formed “a co-operative,
non-profit-making concern, directed by
the publishers and booksellers them-
selves” ; but, the full effect of the Nazi
onslaught is probably not so widely
realised:
In the midst of a great war, with paper-
rationed, new machinery unobtainable,
skilled labor hard to come by, an adequate
replacement of books destroyed by enemy
action is totally impossible. Thousands
of books by all kinds of authors on all
kinds of subjects are no longer to be
obtained at any price. Some may never
be available again. For, consider a standard
work on a special subject, say a branch
of geology or criminal law or the Mayan
civilisation in Central America. Perhaps
2000 copies were printed in 1934, and by
1940 1200 had been sold. The remaining
800 would, on a reasonable expectation,
have found customers by 1950. But all
that 800 have been destroyed in a blitz.
Even if he possessed sufficient paper, the
publisher would be unwise to set up all the
type again, and make blocks or lithographs
for the illustrations, or reproduce the text
by photo-lithography, in order to print only
800 copies and wait 10 years or more to
recover his expenditure. Moreover, as the
initial cost would be recovered not from
2000 but only 800 copies, the price of each
volume would be raised considerably, a
hardship to the reader and quite possibly
a reason for half the 800 never being sold
at all.
The destruction of books by enemy action
is a heavy burden on the book trade, but
also a disaster affecting the professional and
personal lives of millions of readers. Its
effect will not be fully realised until the
war is over and young men and women re-
turning to their studies discover that the
volumes they need are not to be had by
any means. A generation may pass before
the normal supply of books not in wide
demand but of high instructional or literary
value is re-established.
As one example of what the war and
the blitz have actually done to the nor-
mal supply of good literature, Brophy
quotes the case of Everyman’s Library:
“Out of 970 volumes, only 500 have been
available from the publishers for many
mouths past. Similarly with the Oxford
World’s Classics, Collins’s Classics and
Nelson Classics. Similarly with well-
established, useful and delightful books
on every publisher’s list.”
Brophy’s object in outlining these dif-
ficulties of the book trade is to make
out a case for an increase of the paper
quota, for as much consideration as is
possible in the calling-up of men in the
publishing trade —especially skilled crafts-
men —and for the recognition generally
that publishing is an “essential industry.”
He points out that the blitz is only one
of the problems that the war has created:
the chronic shortage of paper retards
both new publishing and the replacement
of books destroyed by bombing and fire ;
the calling-up of bookbinders and other
irreplaceable experts inevitably means de-
lays in publishing and fewer publications.
Surprisingly, he reveals that the book
trade uses only 1.5 per cent, of England’s
paper supplies:
The total amount of paper used by the
book trade is only an infinitesimal fraction
of the total amount of paper manufactured
in this country in war-time. The percentage
as nearly as can be ascertained is between
1.4 and 1.5. Take the larger figure. Books,
fundamental to our civilisation, need only
1.5 per cent, of the paper available. Thus
a substantial increase of the quota could
he granted, and it would add only a few
decimal points to the tiny proportion of
the total supply which is allocated to the
book trade.
Yet another difficulty is the fact that
good books —books of real literary value
have to compete for place with urgent
technical matter, topical books and
trashy best-sellers and paperbacks. While
the quantity of paper allocated has been
reduced in successive cuts to 374- per cent,
of the 1939 supply, the publishers have
not only been striving to replace bombed
books and to publish the normal amount
of general reading, but have also had to
produce
reliable and up-to-date books of instruction
for firefighting, first aid, anti-gas pre-
cautions, police work, cookery and food
economy, car engineering, child welfare,
“digging for victory,” as well as for huge
organisations like the Home Guard and
the Air Training Corps. To take the Home
Guard alone, nearly two million men profit
by instructional books and pamphlets on
such subjects as tactics, camouflage, weapon
training....
And on top of all that English pub-
lishers have had to try to supply a “really
prodigious" increase in the demand for
books, due to the blackout and other
war-time conditions, and to try to retain
their export market. About 30 per cent,
of the total British output of books was
exported in pre-war years and the pub-
lishers have tried to maintain that per-
centage.
The difficulties of the English publishers
have, of course, had a tremendous effect
on bookselling and publishing in Aus-
tralia. Brophy doesn't go into this, but,
as an example of what’s happening in
this country', here’s one simple case given
to the Red Page by a Sydney bookseller:
he ordered from England 100 copies of
the Oxford English Dictionary ; after a
delay of nine months (and that was good
time for an order these days—it often
takes a year) he got four copies. Aus-
tralian booksellers are on a quota from
the English publishers, and, on an aver-
age, get about a third of their former
supply'. They lose supplies occasionally
through sinkings, shipments are irregular,
and there is always the long delay in ful-
filling orders. Their difficulties would be
eased a little if books could be given some
definite place in a system of “priorities.”
Here, as in England, the war has meant
a greatly-increased demand for books,
and here, as in England, there arc far
fewer books available than normally. To
account for the shortage, there’s, first of
all, the long-range effect of the blitz, the
English shortage reflected in Australia;
then there’s the shipping difficulty; then
there’s the fact that Australian and Allied
forces have made enormous demands on
the stocks of the retailers —in Sydney
alone the US. Army bought 70,000
books, and there’s a constant demand
from the Australian Camp Library ser-
vice and—-chiefly for paperbacks—from
the Comforts Fund. And then Australian
publishers have all the difficulties of the
English—except the actual destruction of
books—to contend with.
Shortage of paper’s the great trouble ;
call-ups of skilled personnel another ; and
the necessity for printing the technical
books, pamphlets and other ephemera of
war-time a third, with the result that
the Australian publishers, as well as the
English, can supply booksellers with only
a proportion of their requirements—
roughly half.
The position is made more difficult by
the fact that—shipping space necessarily
being reserved for war materials—hardly
any books can come into Australia from
the U.S. No general literature at all is
crossing the Pacific ; technical and scien-
tific books can still travel, but here again
there are prolonged delays—six to nine
months is the average time for fulfilling
an order.
While the war is on there’s not much
hope of a flow of books from America.
But, after the war, Australian readers
are certain to demand freer access to
American literature than they have had
in the past. Except for what is repub-
lished in England, and for sporadic re-
prints in Australia, we hardly ever see an
American book. Indicating that books
are going to flow both ways across the
Pacific, there is already plenty of evidence
of an awakening American interest in
Australian literature.
The U.S. publishers are actually look-
ing for Australian material to republish.
An American edition of Xavier Herbert's
Capricornia, for example, has just been
published with an enthusiastic foreword
by Carl Van Doren. Two of Arthur W.
Upfield’s books have been brought out by
an American publisher: Wings Above the
Diamantina (U.S. title Wings Over the
Claypan ) and Mr. Jelly’s Business (U.S.
title Murder Down Under); and two
more have been accepted. Kay Grant’s
light verses are to appear this month
under the title It’s ’Ard to Go Wrong in
the Cactus. Ernestine Hill’s The Great
A ustraUan Loneliness has been published
under the title Australian Frontiers, and
the same author’s My Love Must Wait is
also to appear this month. Eleanor
Dark’s The Timeless Land reached the
U.S. public and became a best-seller be-
fore it was on the counters here. If this
process continues, and it’s almost certain
to, Australian literature may get the stimu-
lus it has needed for so long; an enor-
mous audience and a heartening mone-
tary reward for the grind of creative
effort. There should, incidentally, surely
be an American audience for Eve Lang-
ley’s The Pea Pickers.
In some ways —though, as in England,
taxation takes most of the profit out of
it—the shortage and the increased demand
have been a boon both to writers and to
publishers in Australia. Almost any book
that does manage to get into print sells
well-even poetry'. A U.S. soldier came
into The Bulletin office the other day
and said he had sold 1200 copies of a
book ol' verse printed in Townsville.
Australian Poetry, 1942, sold out on pub-
lication. New publishers have sprung
up; English books are being reprinted
in large numbers ; pamphlets and paper-
backs flourish ; there is a mild boom in
books of soldier verse. But pleasure at
the fact that Australian publishing,
if it can survive man-power and paper
troubles, has a great opportunity to estab-
lish itself more firmly than ever before
must be somewhat tempered by the know-
ledge that, except in poetry, there is shock-
ingly little creative writing being done.
A year ago, one after another, there
came in for review Eleanor Dark's The
Timeless Land, Ernestine Hill's My Love
Must Wait, Eve Langley’s The Pea
Pickers and Gavin Casey’s It's Harder
for Girls. It looked as if the creative
spirit was stirring to new life in Aus-
tralia. But there hasn’t been much since
then. Fourteen Australian writers gave
an interesting series of talks which were
reprinted under the title Australian
Writers Speak ; they made all the points
John Brophy makes about the vital im-
portance of literature to the life and
spirit of the nation ; but how much better
if fourteen Australian writers bad each
produced a new book, reinforcing, heart-
ening, re-creating the national spirit !
How much better, in fact, if Australian
writers would write.
One of the contributors to Australian
Writers Speak accepted the doctrine that
writers could be justified in downing
tools in war-time. And possibly that is
the explanation for the absence of the
novel and the scarcity and general lack
of adventurousness in the short story.
Yet it is a creed both despairing and
false. Some of the most vigorous con-
tributions, both verse and short stories,
The Bulletin has had in the past year
or two have come from soldiers in the
front line; and if they can manage to
wield both the pen and the gun, surely
the established writers, whether or not
they’re in the services,can keep in practice.
"Tamed Man and Lawless."
I also was interested in Leslie Rees’s
analysis of Ned Kelly and in Norman
Lindsay’s supplement to it (B. 31/3/ ’43).
Mr. Lindsay draws a distinction be-
tween Tamed Man and Lawless Man,
and there must be a distinction. But what
is a Tamed Man and what a Lawless?
Human beings are gregarious animals and
live in herds for their mutual protection.
As members of a herd they are stronger
than they would be as individuals, and
if primitive man had tried to live an
entirely solipsistic life like the tiger there
could have been no progress. So, in a
sense, we are all tamed, since we cannot
point to a human being who is com-
pletely individualistic. But the price the
herd demands for its protection is the
sacrifice of most of the instinctive desires
of the individual, so there is a part of
every human being which must inevit-
ably feel frustrated. That part at times
will want to take reprisals on that which
seems to frustrate it. But there are many
and divers ways of taking reprisals.
Ned Kelly took the way of bushrang-
ing and murder. But if anybody had
asked him would he make murder into a
universal law there is only one way in
which be could have answered. The bush-
ranger or burglar is reacting against
society, not criticising it. He is not re-
viewing the laws but sinning against them.
Then why has Ned been elevated
almost to the position of a national hero?
Books and plays have been written
around him, and “as game as Ned Kelly”
is a national synonym for courage. Vic-
torians are far prouder of their Kelly
country with its crop of legends than they
are of their Western District with its wool
clip. But nobody has written a book
about the police who risked their lives
in effecting the outlaw’s capture.
Well, isn’t it always the crook who pits
his wits against the law who captures the
audience’s imagination at the talkies, not
the nice, law-abiding young man who gets
the girl in the final close-up? There is
a lawless part of the tamed man which
can identify itself with the outlaw. What
that part likes in the crook and the Ned
Kelly is their individuality.
But the social part cannot countenance
what the individual part longs for, so
there is a conflict in the tamed man, just
as there is in the Ned Kellys. The tamed
man manipulates his conflict in various
minor ways, but in the way the Ned
Kellys manipulate theirs there is some-
thing heroic, which is what I think Mr.
Lindsay means when he says that “if
we have the right to expect a renaissance
in art with this present war, then its ava-
tar is not tamed man, overcivilised man,
safety-first man, but reckless man, dan-
ger-seeking man, heroic man, for he gives
us the stark material from which art is
created.” —
F. S.
Various Verse
The Sundowner’s Dream.
He sat by the fire;
It burned with a black flame
In (lie fluid air.
And he told me his dream.
“ I here was no one but 1.
The yellow hills stood
Against the colored sky
As I walked down the road.
“I boiled my billycan
By an eye-clear spring
Where the town road ran ;
And I heard the billy sing;
“ ‘To the right,’ it sang
So I turned to the right.
And the billy rang
l ike a bell that night.
“By dawn I had come
To a sun-struck plain
Where magpie was dumb
For the want of rain.
“Yet on the distant ground
I saw a great sea flow
Before me, and I found
The billy was a crow.”
The black fire burned
And a tune came from
The billy as I turned
Back the way I had come.
R.A.A.F.
DAVID CAMPBELL.
Disconnected.
Like spider webs the telephone wires,
Spun out in strands from pole to pole,
Link up the length from light to dark;
But something disconnects my soul.
Not dead nor live 1 view detached
Trees like cut paper, or observe
Skywards and with a faint distaste
The moon, whose beckoning rising curve
Compels me to no mute delight.
No quickening passion, grief or shame:
A million years ago she rose,
This evening is it not the same'.*
Unfold in furious lambent flame.
Scatter and fall in countless stars,
Tumble the seven sisters’ lamps
Or snatch a firebrand from Mars
Whose back is turned to watch the world
Cracking in suicidal right;
Or, moon, at this propitious time
At least be talkative and bright.
N.S.W.
ROSEMARY DOBSON.
Rhythms of the Blackbird.
Hold me, O darling, hold me and fold me
hard on your bosom;
Sweet, sweet, sweet is the feel of your breast
as you hold me and fold me.
Close, close, ah, darling, fold me as close as
the bud holds the blossom;
Cover, ah, cover my weary eyes, my darling,
and tenderly hold me.
Sweet, sweet, give me sweet kisses, my darling,
and rippling caresses,
In waves, waves like the white waves chasing
the corn in the summer breeze;
Shut me, shut me within your heart and lock
the doors with your kisses;
Lock, lock out the hard cold world, and fold
me where gentle peace is.
Rich, rich, the streams are rich of my blood
to you-ward speeding;
Beat, beat, I can hear your heart beating, to
me-ward dreaming;
Two, not two, we are one, to the sun bound,
from the world receding;
Dream, ah, dream, tides of the surging blood,
loveward streaming.
MAORILAND.
ARNOLD WALL.
It.
It is outside and cannot conic
Into this mind without these w'ords :
Though listening be wearisome,
It cannot enter without words.
Gently at first—it cannot burst
The scarlet shutters of this brain —•
The eardrums it must rumble first.
Stand at the eyes’ blue windowpane;
And when at length it sees a light
Shining within the intellect,
It then may stand, as shadow might,
Outside the entrance, tall, erect:
Awaiting there, in dread and fear
That she within may turn no key,
Unwilling yet to see and hear
Unravelling of this mystery—
Then, meaningless, may traipse and pass
Across the garden plot, the grass,
And standing at the gate may be
For ever afterwards a tree.
QUEENSLAND.
F. JOHN BLIGHT.


"TRUTH IN ADVERTISING"
"THE SENIOR STORE"
tailored suits
ready to wear
ANTHONY HORDERNS’
119 Years of Service
/■“ ,4T
<?
I'l
All Wool Twin Set in ribbed design. Short-sleeve
pullover and long-sleeve cardigan, which may be
worn to match or contrast. Garments may be bought
separately. Colours are Gold, Grey, Blue, Rose and
Red. Sizes SW, W, and OS.
Pullover. Price 11/6
And 6 couoons.
Cardigan. Price
And 7 coupons.
16/11
u
:
m
N
y
m
m
U
M
m
Azvom'w
* 'i\
W/m
A
A—Tweed Suit of Fawn, Green or Brown
tonings with link or button fastening on
the fully lined coat. Two pockets in coat
and pleats in back and front of skirt.
Sizes SSW, SW, W. Price .... £4/15/10
23 coupons.
B—Suit of Wool Weave with fully lined
coat which features a high fastening neck
and well-fitting collar and revers. Two
pockets in the coat and a pleat in the
skirt. Shades of Camel, Brown, Blue,
Black or Navy. Sizes XSSW, SSW, SW,
W, SOS. Price £4/14/11
23 coupons.
C —Embroidery on the revers of the coat
is the outstanding feature of this two-piece
Suit. Four-button fastening, and the belt
extends from the sides of the coat. Pleats
in the skirt. Colours are Brown, Blue,
Pink and Navy. Sizes SSW to W.
Price £4/14/11
"Joyce'' "Capistrano" Supple Palomino
Leather Shoe of the pull-on style. Elastic
side gussets, seamed toe and high wedge
heels. Colours are Saddle Tan, Lichee
Brown and Navy. Price 36/6
8 coupons.
17 coupons.
w
"Packet" Swanky Square Toed Oxford in
soft leather. Folded toe and full high
wedge heel. Colours are Lichee Brown,
Navy, Black and Saddle Tan. Price, 36/6
8 coupons.
ANTHONY
FAMOUS
Phone: M 2401 (Day and Night)
HORDERNS’
LOW PRICES
Box 2712 C, G.P.0., Sydney


THE GOOD HERDSMAN
By FRANK DALBY DAVISON.
IT was early morning. In his camp
old Isaac Burgess was sharpening his
scalping knife before setting out for
the line of wallaby snares in the
belah scrub at the back of his selection.
He was an odd little man, shrunken with
years, but spry, clad in dungarees and
blue flannel, earth-stained and faded. His
knotty arms and his face were dark with
something more than sun-tan, and there
was a depth in the darkness of his brown
eyes that seemed to belong very much to
the bush. Ordinarily he was unreflective
and closely intent upon whatever he was
doing, but just now his face was heavy
with thought, and the hand that slid the
bright little blade along the whetstone
moved slowly. Ordinarily he was eager
for the day’s activity, but this morning
he seemed to lift a weight with every
movement.
The night before, stumbling home in
the dark from a visit to the store, he had
passed young Bert Gifford, whose selec-
tion adjoined his at one end.
“That you, Isaac?”
“That’s me, Bert.”
“ ’Bout time you sold those heifers,
Isaac! ”
Isaac had long known that the day
when it would be time to sell the heifers
was approaching, but the thought was
unpleasant and he had avoided it. Because
he knew Bert’s remark to be friendlily in-
tended it had made him jump.
“Yes, I’ll sell ’em soon, Bert.” His
voice had sounded reedy in his own ears.
Bert, his disinterested words flung out
in passing, had gone unconcernedly on
his way. Isaac had stood staring into
the darkness after him, then he had hur-
ried back to his camp, his composure
much disturbed. He had thought to
escape in sleep, but recollection was wait-
ing for him when he wakened ; and as
he dressed and made his breakfast the
incident kept re-enacting itself unpleas-
antly in his imagination.
He didn’t want to sell those heifers;
he liked having them in his paddock.
They were good sorts, finely-bred, good
colors; well-grown beasts, most of them
standing almost as high as his shoulder.
He had bought them a couple of years
before, a mob of twenty-four skinny little
milkers’ poddies, about as big as sheep,
swollen-bellied, razor-backed, harsh of
coat and poverty-stricken, but they had
their breeding to recommend them, and
neighbors had turned knowing eyes into
his paddock. They had suggested then,
and from time to time since, that he
would want to sell them some day.
At first he had encouraged talk of the
day when he might sell; sunning himself
a little in the warmth of other men’s
covetousness. Yes, they would be for
sale some day. Now, when they had
grown to early maturity, and it would be
the part of good business to listen to
offers, he fought shy of the thought.
In the two years since he had bought
them, while they grew, he had come to
like them just for themselves. They and
he and a couple of quiet old horses were
the sole inhabitants of the small com-
pact world in which he lived. His
neighbors were family men, building up
dairy herds; Isaac was a local oddity, an
old bachelor bushman, planning to live
only by grazing in a small way. When
he went away, as he must from time to
time, to earn a little ready money, it was
to hold that small world of his together ;
and when he returned his first and hap-
piest duty was to go down the paddock
to renew acquaintance with its creatures.
He had bought the poddies with a view
to turning them into, cash when grown,
but somehow life seemed to have carried
him away from his intentions. Bert’s
friendly remark was an unpleasant re-
minder. It brought, too, the recollection
that the heifers were in calf —on their
natural way to motherhood and the milk-
ing bails. Cutlack, another neighbor,
had a fence-jumping bull that had seen
to that.
As he had hoped at night to escape
in sleep, so now Isaac fled to activity.
Along the snare line the night’s catch
would be waiting. He sheathed the knife,
put the whetstone aside, and in a few
minutes was on his way down the pad-
dock, his feelings disposed to return to
his difficulty, but his thoughts fixed reso-
lutely upon his errand.
THE morning was bright and fresh, the
ground striped with long shadows
from the newly-risen sun. Isaac met his
heifers grazing up the slope from the
creek. At sight of them his small secure
world closed round him, and his mood
changed with the facility of a child’s. A
pretty sight the cattle made, red, roan
and white, as they came feeding along
under the bare twiggy branches of timber
he had ringbarked the year before. Heads
down to the good grass; twenty-four of
them, in the bloom of young life, at one
with the morning.
Reaching them the old man lingered,
hobbling from one to another, rubbing
this one behind her ears and patting that
one on her flank, delighting in the touch
of their warm silken hides. The skinny
little poddies of a couple of years back
were now but a scarcely credible recol-
lection. From their young strength there
seemed to come a glow that he could
feel through his old body. Here was life,
and in some mysterious way he was both
part of it and it was his.
He passed with caressing hand around
a red-coated beast to free the silvery tail-
tuft of a roan from a small trailing
branch that had got caught up in it. As
he moved among them he talked to them.
“How’s the littlest one gettin’ on, hey?
You feelin’ quiet this mornin’?” One
might lift a dewy muzzle from the feed
and blink at him for a moment with
large liquid eyes, but that was the only
way any of them showed awareness of
his presence. A strawberry roan came
up beside him, taking the grass with swift
strokes of her elegant head. He put out
his hand to her.
“Makin’ love to ’em, are you?” The
words, in a shout of derision, came from
behind Isaac. He turned as if he had
been shot at, his mouth falling open.
Cutlack, big noisy Cutlack, was standing
about a hundred and fifty yards away, at
the fence that divided their selections.
His arms were folded on top of a post,
his pipe was in one hand, a foot rested
on the bottom wire of the fence. He had
evidently been an interested, amused
and probably chagrined observer of
Isaac making much of his cattle.
“First time I seen a bloke kissin’ his
cows good mornin’!” There was a note
of satisfaction in Cutlack’s jeer.
Isaac made no reply. He wasn’t
capable of any. He had thought himself
secure, and here was one of those neigh-
bors who wanted to tear his treasure from
him. His mouth closed, but the corners
of it twitched uncontrollably. A moment
before he had appeared a reasonably
vigorous old man, but now his frailty, his
defencelessness, was to the fore. He
blinked, and the hand that rested on the
strawberry roan trembled.
“ ’Bout time they was in somebody’s
milkin’ bails, ain’t it; earnin’ their keep?”
Still no word from Isaac. He swal-
lowed once or twice, but no sound came.
The roan moved on, and Isaac’s arm fell
to his side like the arm of an effigy ; and
he stood staring towards Cutlack as if
transfixed until the other chose to release
him.
Cutlack slid his foot from the wire
and turned away with a grunt; then
Isaac, after a glance back at the heifers
and another towards Cutlack’s retreating
form, hurried on his way.
I—l E crossed the creek and toiled up
*■ * the slope whose top was marked
with the dark selvedge of the belah scrub.
His lips moved as if. he were addressing
some image held before his inner vision.
Arrived within the margin of the
scrub he was in no condition to work
along the snare line. He sat down on a
log behind a thin screen of stunted belahs
that fringed the giant scrub behind, and
felt for his pipe. He was breathing
heavily; his eyes were overbright; his
movements jerky and fumbling. His
gnarly old fingers had difficulty in ex-
tracting a match from the box, and the
hand that held the lighted match above
the bowl of his pipe trembled.
He sat for a while, his lips tight on
his pipe stem, forgetting to draw smoke,
peering through the scant belah needles.
At a distance, and some way below him,
he could see a few of the roofs of his
neighbors’ homesteads embedded in the
timber. He looked from one to another
as if each offered him a threat. There
was a weak defiance in his posture but
a hunted look in his eyes. He was like a
beast escaped into hiding from a driven
herd, but which doesn’t know what it will
do next and fears a return of the drovers.
The hardness of his breathing died
down and his body relaxed a little.
His eyes turned again to the distant
roof-tops, and he seemed to feel himself
shrink in stature. He took his pipe from
his mouth, and a great weariness and
misery settled on him. For the first time
in his life he felt very old, lost and in-
adequate. He was an object of ridi-
cule. He had bought the heifers with a
view to trade. Change and gain. He
had intended investing his profit in other
cattle from which further profit would
in due course be derived. But change and
gain held no attraction for him now. He
couldn’t think happily of his paddock
empty of its present inhabitants. He
was conscious of being torn between
reason and the feeling of a shaken belief
in himself.
In search of some consolatory image
his mind reached back to the time, a span
of between three and four years, when
he had first settled on his selection. Men
had said to him “You’re a game old
bloke to be taking up land at your time
of life!” He had mildly resented their
suggestion that the infirmity of years
was upon him. He had fenced his selec-
tion, built a good permanent camp, ring-
barked a lot of his timber. Men, looking
at the work, had said “Well, you do a
good job, Isaac!” He had been a little
contemptuous of their praise, nettled at
their patronage. What were they used to?
All his life he had done a good job.
And now he was on the wrong side
of life. He had planned to live by
change and gain, and now he discovered
that he wanted only what he already
had. Change and gain were after him
now, like dogs snapping at his fetlocks.
A N hour passed before Isaac moved ;
hour of troubled thoughts, of
living alternately in the deep content-
ment of his past two years, and of try-
ing unavailingly to reconcile himself to
what must follow. With bodily rest his
thoughts at length came back to the
immediate present, finding temporary
relief. If he didn’t get a move on the ants
would be at the catch. He got up from
the log and turned into the head-high
wilga under the tall belahs, thoughts of
work comforting him like a fresh dress-
ing on a wound.
There was a good deal to do that
morning. Old snares to be taken up,
repaired when necessary, fresh wallaby
pads sought out and the looped
snare bent craftily so that the quarry,
coming along at late evening or
early morning, would be firmly caught
by the neck, and not brush the snare
aside in passing. Then there was the
night’s catch to be skinned as he came
upon them. Four were waiting for him ;
four furry bodies, prone and still in the
depths of the scrub, each lying in a
circle of torn and scratched earth.
It was almost noon, later than usual,
when Isaac came to the end of his snare
line, and, with the four pelts dangling
over his shoulder, headed for home.
Absorption in his work had freed his
mind in greater part and cleared his face,
but as he emerged from the scrub into
the open grazing country thought of his
trouble was waiting for him, just as his
snares had waited for the wallabies.
Animation departed from his features,
and he plodded towards his camp with
set look.
“Good morning, Mr. Burgess!” The
words came in tones that were crisp,
clear and pleasant.
The earth itself might have spoken
behind him, so sharply did Isaac stop
and turn. Peering, he saw through the
saplings that edged the side road that
the voice came from a man seated in a
buckboard. The vehicle was at a stand-
still. He recognised the voice at the
moment of seeing the man. It was Mor-
rison from over on Breakfast Creek.
Isaac attempted a reply to his greet-
ing, but could manage only a croak of
surprise and alarm, until he should learn
what the other wanted of him.
Morrison saw Isaac’s mouth open. He
heard no sound, but, as the breeze was
against Isaac, concluded that his reply
had been carried away. “I was noticing
your heifers as I came along the road,”
he said, raising his own voice a little
and speaking with a backward motion
of his hand toward the direction from
which he had come. “A very choice little
lot! And pretty well ready for sale now,
eh? You should do quite v/ell out of
them.”
There was a pause during which no-
thing was said. In so far as he was ac-
quainted with him, Isaac had a quite
friendly regard for Morrison, but faced
with his talk about the heifers just at
this moment he could achieve nothing in
the way of amiable conversation. He
just stared.
The other stared back, somewhat at a
loss to account for the old man’s silence ;
then he decided to bring the rather lame
interview to as pleasant a termination as
possible. “Yes, you certainly bought very
wisely. I wish I were in a position to
make you an offer myself. Well, good
morning, Mr. Burgess.” He gathered up
his reins and with a friendly waggle of
his whip drove on.
Isaac managed a movement of his hand
which he hoped would pass muster as a
farewell salute, and then turned on his
way. He was doubly stricken now, with
that friendly, disinterested voice echoing
in his ears. The very skies seemed to
be talking about his heifers, the saplings
whispering about them.
HALFWAY down the slope towards
the creek he caught sight of the
heifers, distantly. They had gone
down to the creek for a drink and
were making their midday camp in the
shade of some applebox-trees near the
waterhole. Full-bellied with feed and
water, they were camped to chew their
cuds and drowse away the warm noon-
tide hours. They had chosen a tiny en-
closed flat where the creek made a horse-
shoe bend. Isaac’s footsteps quickened.
Here, at least, was a friendly and sym-
pathetic atmosphere, a little island of tem-
porary forgetfulness, however ringed
about with trouble. He scrambled down
and up the creek banks and stood looking
at his cattle. He hoped to recapture, even
if only for a little while, the happy mood
in which he had moved among them in
the early morning. Standing there, he
waited for it to come to him, but it
eluded him.
The heifers were camped under the
leaning arms of the trees, on earth
splashed with shadow and shine. Con-
tentment was with them. The somnolence
of the hour seemed to absorb the mono-
tone of their swinging jaws. Above them,
sky and foliage were the green and cobalt
of a parrot’s wing. The air was faintly
scented with the smell of apples, from
the leaves of the trees, and heavily
scented with cattle breath. Some of the
heifers, at Isaac’s sudden appearance,
turned large dark eyes on him ; bland
bovine eyes, disinterested, ruminative,
self-absorbed.
The mood of rising happiness in which
he had scrambled across the creek fell
completely away from him. The heifers
were close to calving, and, by that, as
close to their natural destiny, the milking
sheds of his neighbors. That white heifer,
the one with her tail lying across her
back, was springing ; it wouldn’t be more
than a few days before she calved. That
large red one—the pick of them all —she
was coming along fast.
For the first time since he had watched
them, as forlorn little poddies, straggling
uncertainly up the ridge to a night camp,
at the close of their first day in his pad-
dock, Isaac felt himself outside their
circle. Looking at them now, trying
without avail to enter into his usual inti-
mate delight in their docility and animal
perfection, he realised that, although he
had given his care and labor for their
well-being, they had grown, not to please
him, but to fulfil their own lives. They
would rest as contentedly in any other
man’s paddock. They belonged to them-
selves.
Isaac turned and went on his way,
more slowly and even more thoughtfully
than he had moved since rising from his
bed. The hill rose sharply beyond the
flat, and among the trees on the crown
of the first little hummock he turned
and looked back. The heifers were
grouped now within the compass of a
single glance, about a hundred yards
away and a little below him, camped in
the shade, across the sunlit flat, framed
between the dark trunks of the trees that
grew close beside him.
The moment was one to be seized.
After a little time, a moment of struggle,
Isaac’s face lifted and lit with the look
of a man who has brought himself to
meet the challenge of life. Late that
afternoon, when the sun was just above
the treetops, he would go out to the
front sliprails. He would speak to the
children on their way home from school.
He would say to young Madigan, the
cattle-dealer’s boy, “Tell your father,
sonny, that I’m ready to make a deal
with him about them heifers of mine.
The light died from Isaac’s face, and
he turned away. He would do as he had
resolved, but as he made with slow steps
toward his camp, the only moving thing
on the hillside, his catch of pelts dangling
from his shoulder, he looked very smalt
and forlorn.


The Bulletin
Vol. 64. —No. 3300.
Wednesday, May 12, 1943.
SIMPLE, IF NOT SUFFICIENT.
“Half a million coalminers having struck in the U.S.A., President Roosevelt ordered them to go back to the pits. They went back."
“How do you handle coal strikes in your country, Evatt?”
“We just ignore them.”


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper
“Australia for the White Man”
Directors;
H. K. Prior J. E. Webb
P. H. Prior David Adams
HEAD OFFICE: 252 George Street. Sydney:
Box 252IBB; ’Phone 87971.
Victoria: Newspaper House, 247-249 Collins
Street, Melbourne.
Queensland; 239 Adelaide Street. Brisbane.
Westralia ; 33 Barrack Street, Perth.
New Zealand : Nathan’s Buildings (opp,
G.P.0.), Wellington.
London: 1 Hare Place, 47 Fleet Street,
London, E.C.4.
IN S.A. AND N.S.W.
There was a great story behind the
bald announcement that an 8000-ton
freighter, one of many ordered by the
Government, had been christened by the
Governor-General’s wife in a South Aus-
tralian yard—the story of a successful
experiment which, as well as being im-
portant to the war effort, has brought a
new vision and hope to neglected parts
of Australia.
It was recorded that “no cheers were
louder than those of the hundreds of
men who had worked day and night to
achieve the launching in Australian
record time.” Many went to the job from
strike-plagued parts of N. S. Wales, and
most, if not all, of these men belonged
to the federated unions which followed
their May Day outbreak in Sydney with
a larrikin strike, and that when the news
of Australia’s war of survival was the
worst for the year. These shipyard
workers did not strike nor did the Sydney
union bosses venture to include them in
the strike order. It would be incorrect
to say that the lawless writs of Thorn-
ton, Wright and the rest do not run in
places beyond Sydney, Newcastle and
Melbourne, but Communists and fellow-
travellers have to be careful not to over-
strain the lesser loyalty of distant union-
ists who are doing essential work in Aus-
tralia and are justly proud of it. { ,
To a parcel of Sydney writing boys
who have much in common with the
Thorntons and Wrights, including man-
ners and Stalin-worship, South Australia
is a “hillbilly State” represented in the
Commonwealth Parliament by “hill-
billies,” also called “troglodytes,” “Stone-
Age Tories” and “backwoodsmen.” Only
a parcel of Sydney writing boys and their
larrikin union friends and acquaintances
would apply the term “hillbilly” to the
State that, for example, produced the only
Australian-born and -educated Nobel
Prize winner, and in which many men of
consequence received a scientific training
at Adelaide University from his equally
distinguished father ; but the gibe delights
infantile minds and is trotted out persis-
tently.
The infantile minds are blind to
the fact that the beautiful city that is
Adelaide and the signs* of well-planned
industry and careful husbandry to be
seen on every hand in a State so ill
served by Nature, compared with N. S.
Wales, Queensland and Victoria, could
not have been achieved by a community
lacking a liberal supply of brains and
energy. Improvisation for war —that is
what it amounts to —is a good test of
both, and in this respect South Australia
can stand any fair comparison. With its
massive industrial developments and the
steady character of its people it is in-
creasing its stature among the States. A
solid and stable part of the Common-
wealth it has always been.
As for the alleged “hillbilly” members
(one of them is Dr. Grenfell Price), in
a general-knowledge test they would be
more than a match for any equal number
of Sydney writing boys, to say nothing
of larrikin union bosses, and, judged only
on their work in the late tumultuops ses-
sion, they are the most effective group
of debaters at Canberra. It was due to
their efforts that a Treasurer from N. S.
Wales was prevented from commandeer-
ing overpayments of income tax col-
lected from wages and salaries, and that
the Senate, previously the despised
creature of whatever Government chanced
to be in office. Was restored to its right-
ful place in the scheme of Parliamentary
government, equal in all things with the
House, save that it may not reject or
amend money bills, though it may press
for amendments and, when this Govern-
ment was abusing its powers, very use-
fully did..
For the rest, these South Austra-
lian members stand for a body of prin-
ciples, the first of which, in respect
of the war, is equality of risk, with no
geographical limit, for all Aus-
tralians in uniform ; and they refuse to
compromise on any of them. In the eyes
of Sydney writing boys, union blather-
skites, the Eddie Ward mob and the sort
of Opposition member who is all for
“conciliation” and for catching the 4.15
from Canberra before an embarrassing
division is taken, this constitutes their
main offence.
Another S.A. public man whom Sydney
writing boys hold in merry contempt
is Premier Playford. His crime consists
in having decided that horseracing (by
trotters and pacers, as well as gallopers),
totes, bookmakers and betting shops were
incompatible with a full war effort, and
cancelled their legal immunity until Aus-
tralia is safe. And, an Old Digger, he
has held to his course unmoved by the
pleadings and threats of the racing in-
terest and Labor politicians, being so
stubborn that a ponderous Bible falling
on his head would bounce off without
making a dent —the sportive illustration
of a young lion of the Sydney Sunday
press. Sydney people with sons or hus-
bands fighting who read of racecourses
and lottery offices being thronged, and
who perhaps see fashionable jockeys drive
up to and away from military barracks
and depots to do something or other
before they change into riding togs at
the week-end, sometimes wish that Mr.
Playford was their Premier.
Instead of a Playford, Sydney has a
McKell. After unavailingly demanding
huge supplies of Commonwealth loan
money for “works” and the like, alleged
to be- “equal in importance to the war
effort,” and trying to prevent unification
of income tax Mr. McKell is now attempt-
ing to sock the pastoralists with a so-called
settlement-promotion tax. This, with the
140 per cent, increase in Federal land tax,
will, it has been calculated, raise land
tax to the equivalent of “4yd. a pound
of wool immediately and 6d. a pound
eventually,” in the process depriving the
Commonwealth, which exempts State tax-
payments, of a great amount of revenue.
Mr. McKell has for Deputy Premier
a Mr. Badly. Mr. Badly is supposed
to control a very expensive Mines De-
partment. All he has been known to do
in that field since the Japanese began
their career of slaughter and conquest
has been to transform 1700 or 1800 coal-
miners into pensioners (he paid pensions
in the first place without Parliamentary
authority) and to go down a mine to
plead with a party of strikers who were
staying-in because “the workings” were
“unsafe.” All other N.S.W. coalmine
strikes and stoppages on hundreds of
pretexts (the more brazen the better) have
found Mr. Badly as torpid as a toad in
a hole, though in the result, on the basis
of a 40-hour week —36 hours from bank
to bank—there has been a production-
loss since December 7, 1941, of 2,000,000
tons of coal. And the fatal proposition
has been advanced, and accepted by
Labor “Governments,” . that if miners
choose to deprive the country of the life-
blood of the war effort on the mechani-
cal side that is their right.
Mr. Badly’s great mind has been con-
centrated on racing problems, with
majestic results. Last week, when the
public was informed of the Spitfire losses,
of the sinking of five freighters off the
east coast, of the continued refusal of
Sydney wharf-laborers to work ships, of
massive additions to the list of coal
strikes, of the metal-trades strike, of
the sheet-metal workers’ strike against
non-unionists who toiled on Loaf
Day, of a litter of other strikes and of
officially-admitted shortages of milk and
butchers’ meat, the latter (not admitted)
because slaughtermen employed in the
Government abattoirs at Homebush have
reduced the slow-down and stopwork-
meeting business to a fine art —during a
week so dismaying to lesser minds Mr.
Badly proudly announced that the labors
of his greyhound-racing committee, com-
posed of three picked departmental offi-
cers, had been brought to a triumphant
conclusion. In effect, a Greyhound Board
was to be set up to “control dog-racing
throughout the State” and “ensure the
salvation of the sport.”
And that was not all. Two days later,
with equal gratification, Mr. Badly
presented a “revised” Sydney Turf
Club Bill, premising that the task
had been so great and intricate that,
though “important deviations from the
original bill” had been found neces-
sary, still more amendments —many, in
fact —would be required. The choicest
feature of this noble instalment of reform
is that Mr. Badly’s Government guaran-
tees interest on “investments made in the
new club,” which is to “take over” six
proprietary concerns. To this the Oppo-
sition-leader, mentioning the difficulty in
filling war loans, offered a morose objec-
tion, at which Mr. Badly seemed intensely
surprised.
It must not be supposed that the party
which Mr. Badly adorns concerns itself
with these matters of great moment to
the neglect of culture and things of the
spirit. It takes a militant interest in' the
higher education, and keeps a forbidding
eye on the University Senate.
The party was successful in hav-
ing two young professors appointed
for life to the Law School over the
protests of Senators, among them two
Supreme Court Judges, that tem-
porary appointments would suffice till
the claims of service men could be
considered (since then five-sixths of
the law students have gone into the ser-
vices and Perth’s Law School has been
closed for the duration). It was roused
to fury by the Senate’s efforts to cope
with a remarkable rush of would-be
students who have matriculated and
at the same time conform to restric-
tive regulations imposed by Mr. Ded-
man’s department. No such rush or
rumpus has been reported from any
other State. Still, there is nothing
to warrant the impression that the party
aspires to make the University a home-
from-home for sturdy young fellows,
“protected” as politicians are “protected”
(incidentally, no N.S.W. Labor politician
of an age to serve has been to nasty
places like Buna, Tobruk and El Alamein)
and also the army of union presidents,
treasurers, secretaries, organisers and
what not, thanks to “Eddie.”
The University Senate has completed
its catalogue of offences by refusing to
dismiss or “discipline” a professor who
goes off the rails every ten years or so,
and who, at a New Education Fellowship
meeting, said, among other things (only
scraps of the speech were reported), that
“teachers” would be “well advised” to
“keep the clergy out of schools.” Though
the clergy was not greatly disturbed, poli-
ticians were furious. Served with a sort
of Parliamentary ultimatum, the Senate
replied, through the Chancellor, in cut-
ting terms:
Any action to be effective would require
the imposition of some test, or some limita-
tion on Professor Anderson’s utterances.
It is laid down in the University and
University Colleges Act that no religious
test shall be applied to teachers or stu-
dents.
The Senate desires to affirm its convic-
tion that no such test should be imposed,
and, remembering, as it does, the results
which have followed the regimentation of
universities in other parts of the world,
it is also strongly of the opinion that no-
thing but harm could follow the stifling
in a university of the spirit of free inquiry.
The Senate desires also to inform the
Legislative Assembly that every facility
and encouragement is given to societies and
groups within the university whose object
it is to foster the Christian religion and to
promote the knowledge and observance of
Christian principles.
It is now expected that the University
will be “nationalised,” like the Homebush
abattoirs and the coalmine at Lithgow,
which is invariably idle when Mr. Ward
has a rush of “nationalisation” to the
head. And perhaps in the fullness
of time Gambling in all its branches.
Union Larrikinism and Red Intoler-
ance will be added to the facul-
ties. To the Chair of Red Intolerance
there would naturally be appointed a
representative of the Sydney Labor Coun-
cil which excommunicated the Workers’
Educational Association, a University
Extension, because one of its lecturers
had reviewed Soviet policy in the spirit
of free inquiry, complete servility being
required.
Australia's Better Side.
That doing anything less would be
inviting obliteration somewhat discounts
the good figures on Australia’s war per-
formance which Mr. Curtin has taken to
giving out, and some of the figures
need to be broken down on other
grounds. But publishing them is a
sensible notion, if only to reassure the
finer majority of Australians and tell the
Japs that the country is nothing like as
rotten as the serial strike headlines might
suggest.
If the strikes could be taken as typical
of the spirit of the country the Japs
would move in at once. A country that
had degenerated to a point where its
moral fibre was represented by some
30,000 of its metal-trade workers down-
ing tools on the day on which the papers
published two serious bulletins from
General MacArthur’s headquarters, one
stating that the enemy had “launched a
submarine attack in some force in the
waters east of Australia” and the other
that Spitfire fighters had suffered “heavy
losses” above Darwin, could hardly sink
lower even if taken over by Japs.
Fortunately those who that day co-
operated with the Japs no more stood
for the spirit of Australia at this moment
than do the miners at one N.S.W. pit
wlfo, up to near the end of April, worked
31 days out of a total of 84 working days
this year. Or Sydney wharfies. After
refusing for a week or two to load or
unload vital war materials, leaving ships
held up until R.A.A.F. and A.I.F. men
were conscripted on to doing the job,
Sydney wharfies went back, only to per-
form in such a Jap-helping fashion that
on that black Monday 650 Australian and
Allied service men were still toiling on
the Sydney wharves, their needed traimng
and the job for which they joined up
immediately suspended.
Like Mr. Curtin’s fine figures, these
sorry performances can do with some
breaking down. Not all those 30,000
metal-trade workers who let Australia
down did so with a free choice. As one of
their leaders explained—with the impu-
dence which gutsless Government is
spreading—“lf the stoppage had not been
organised and disciplined by the unions,
there would have been chaotic conditions
in the industry, because of unorganised
spontaneous action by the workers.”
For “industry” read “unions.” Given a
free and protected choice between that
day working for Australia or co-operating
with the invading Japs enough good Aus-
tralians in these outfits would have taken
a course that would no doubt have caused
chaos in the unions. No choice, of
course, was permitted, let alone any pro-
tection promised, either by unions or
Government. Thus it amounted to a
strike against Australia, and hence for
Japan, under union-controllers’ orders and
with tacit Government consent. No one on
the Government side, from Mr. Curtin
down, uttered a word of protest against
or condemnation of these miserable pro-
ceedings, though all knew what was
being prepared —in the words of Arbi-
tration Judge O’Mara, “deliberate and
organised defiance of a law for securing
the public safety and for the more effec-
tive prosecution of the war.”
Coming between Anzac Day and Jap
Co-operation Day Mr. Curtin’s figures
sounded well. Men sworn in for Aus-
tralia’s fighting forces had increased from
750,000 to 800,000— representing one out
of fewer than every two of the male
population between 18 and 40, or one in
fewer than every five of the total male
population.
By any comparison that represents a
fair effort, Mr. Curtin made the compari-
son that on the same ratio America would
need to show 15,000,000 men. The highest
total America plans to have eventually is
under 12,000,000. But into any really
instructive comparison Japan’s total mil-
lions and probable 6,000,000 trained
troops should enter.
Again, a tidy proportion of the good
Australian total represents as yet un-
trained or only part-traihed men. Further
subtract all those doing essential base
jobs and the non-combatant units, and
the actual fighting strength is really so
small that the thought of Australia’s
chance of holding out without the measure
of assistance it is getting and the greater
measure it hopes to get becomes appalling.
The thinness of the line which Mr.
Curtin’s imposing figures really represent
has application in the future as well as
for now. In lulls in the fighting there has
been a great deal of talk, in Australia as
elsewhere, about post-war planning ; but,
except the Diggers’ League, none of the
planners has mentioned this country’s
post-war defences. They will need to be
in two forms: (1) internal, including a
continuation of the compulsory training
which has made it possible for Mr.
Curtin to give out such fine service
figures; (2) external, most probably in
the part-form of a lasting arrangement
with Uncle Sam.
How continued compulsory training
would be likely to fare from Governments
of Mr. Curtin’s party the utterances of
his Ministers —some of them only re-
cently made —and of leaders of the Labor
faction still campaigning against militia
service beyond Australian territory indi-
cate conclusively enough. Mr. Curtin
himself opposed the very resumption of
compulsory training which now makes his
fine figures possible; and it can be
doubted that he has had any change of
heart, judging by a further statement he
made in respect of those figures:
The number of men volunteering to fight
anywhere in the world with the A.1.F.,
R.A.A.F. and R.A.N. has increased from
422,000 three months ago to more than
500,000.
If the P.M. means this to suggest that
the “voluntary system” is thereby proved
a success he is deluding nobody more
than himself. The R.A.A.F. and the
R.A.N. can be called voluntary forces in
the full meaning of the word, though
even with the R.A.A.F. there has been a
considerable number of transfers from the
universal training units. These, however,
have changed wholly of their own free
will ; many of them were universal
trainees only because, lacking parents’
consent or for other reasons, they could
not get straight into the R.A.A.F. as they
wished. Also, there was a long period
when such changing-over was officially
banned. Transfers to the A.I.F. have not
all been in the same class; in any case,
no man with Mr. Curtin’s share of com-
monsense would believe for a moment
that the present strength of the A.I.F.
could ever have been achieved if there
had been no reintroduced compulsory
training building up the necessary reser-
voir of thus-conditioned men. For these
brave figures Mr. Curtin can thank the
very measure —brought in by the Men-
zies Government—which Mr. Curtin and
his followers opposed.
There is another aspect of the future
application of this portion of Mr. Curtin’s
latest figures. What these figures repre-
i sent has not only taken but has needed
; years to accomplish. Mr. Curtin men-
i tioned the gratifying fact that “No civi-
lian in the Commonwealth has had im-
’ pact with an enemy land force,” and
he rightly credited this to the perform-
. ance of the fighting forces, without stress-
ing the point that their fighting has been


and is being done outside Australia. 1 his,
also, Mr. Curtin and following opposed
in the first place in respect of soldiers.
No thanks are due, either, to those who
were over the years —and especially in
one particular year (1929)— responsible
for Australia being one of the very worst
defended countries in the world when
war came. Only an extra-large helping
of the singular good luck this country
has always enjoyed enabled recovery
from that tragic position. Now that (
Australia has been involved in war with
Asia it would be criminal folly to allow
that position ever to happen again, quite
irrespective of what sort of licking the
Japs, who are only a fragment of Asia,
may eventually suffer.
All these figures and the others given
out by Mr. Curtin —men in full-time war
work (including members of the forces)
now total 1,506,000, or 60 per cent, of
males between 14 and 65 ; 70 per cent,
of total factory employees now on essen-
tial war jobs; 98,000 now working in 34
munition factories and 180 munition
annexes, with 15 more munition factories
under construction or authorised, and
other suchlike heartening achievement —
would not have been possible but for the
years by the grace of God allowed. Add-
ing up to a fair enough compliment to
Australians in the main, all these figures
should be measured by these years
granted and needed for the accomplish-
ment. And if this does not provide a de-
ciding lesson for the future the day will
surely come when it will be written as an
epitaph that this was the country which
produced the world’s finest fighters and
the world’s worst statesmen.
PLAIN ENGLISH
Shock for Queensland Labor.
In Queensland, as the official Year-Book
puts it, “all local-authority councils are
elected by adult suffrage.” They had
their triennial elections on May 1, and,
to the dismay of Commonwealth Labor
Ministers and members, who will have
to face their constituents in a few months,
there was a decided and almost State-
wide swing against their party.
It was most pronounced in Greater
Brisbane, which has two Labor represen-
tatives at Canberra, Transport Minister
Lawson (Brisbane) and party Whip
Conelan (Griffith), and in which State
Labor has predominated for many years.
Lord Mayor Chandler, leader of the
Citizens’ Municipal Organisation, was
not only re-elected with an absolute
majority of nearly 49,000, but led in
each of the. Labor wards. There were
eight of these before the event, and
when coynting was well advanced it
looked as if there might be no more
than three, but embarrassingly close con-
tests in four other wards, in one of which
an alderman with the right Labor brand
in 1940 had turned “Industrial” Labor,
enabled the beaten party to claim seven.
It had professed to be confident of
a turnover that would bring back the
hectic days of the Jones regime. It didn’t
really feel like that, but it wasn’t prepared
for the sweeping C.M.O. majorities in
places like Buranda, Enoggera, Ithaca,
Kelvin Grove, Logan and Windsor, all
of which have Labor Ms.L.A.
It would be foolish to suppose that
this striking municipal vote against
Labor will be repeated in Commonwealth
polling booths. It would be even more
foolish to conclude that it was not influ-
enced by dissatisfaction with the records
of the State and Commonwealth Labor
Governments and parties. There are
many signs, among them the election of
the Barnes brothers for traditional Labor
seats, followed by the outrageous aboli-
tion of preferential voting, that Queens-
land is fed up with its Labor Govern-
ment, which with one brief interval has
been in office since 1915. There is
evidence also that Queenslanders, like the
people in other States, resent the adminis-
trative pranks of Mr. Ward and Mr.
Dedman and their Government’s egre-
gious performances in the domains of
man-power, industry, taxation (in respect
of the proposed commandeering of over-
payments and pay-as-you-go) and militia
service.
Since the continuous Government
arrived in Brisbane 28 years ago the
State has elected Labor Senators only
twice —in 1931 and 1937, The Senators
of the 1937 vintage are Mr, Joseph Silver
Collings, Minister for the Interior and
Leader of the House; Mr. Gordon
Brown, Chairman of Committees, and
Mr. Benjamin Courtice. It looks as if sad
farewells will be in order in June, 1944.
These Boards 2
It is a bad season for marketing boards.
A seemingly interminable inquiry (esti-
mated cost £2OO a day) into the futilities
of the Apple and Pear Board is dragging
on what time apples, at the height of
the normal apple season, are 2d. to 6d.
each. Sydney’s Egg Board is desperately
trying to explain why over a million and
a half eggs went bad in storage. Sydney’s
Milk Board has cut supplies to traders
and is threatening households with a
shortage.
It can’t be said for any of these boards
that their record is impressive. Even in
peace-time the main results of their ad-
ministration of foodstuffs were waste and
high prices. In war-time they have proved
incapable either of foresight or economy,
and producers and consumers alike have
long wished them to —er —glory.
There is little hope that Mr. Curtin’s
new Food Executive can stop the rot.
What is needed is a Commonwealth
Food Ministry with powers similar to
those exercised with resounding success
in Britain, where there are no provincial
commodity boards cumbering the ground.
One More.
The one droll feature of the Russ-Pole
quarrel, as renewed in the sight of the
world, is that it obliges the “Australian”
Communist “party” to turn another
somersault. These “Australians” have
turned so many in the last four years
that one more may not seem to matter;
but the necessity for the latest is annoy-
ing, the Circumstances being what they
are. More especially as their foes (all
“Fascists”) are turning up the manifestos
issued by the Communist “party” in four
delirious weeks of August-September,
1939.
Then, because something never ex-
plained had happened to the intelligence
system, the Corns, had to depend on
capitalist sources of information. Trucu-
lently they demanded that pressure
should be brought on the loathsome
Chamberlain to sign up at once with
Stalin and extend the alliance to “the
Japanese butchers.” When news of the
Molotov-Ribbentrop agreement broke,
they summed it up as a copper-bottomed
guarantee against war.
The war coming, in spite of these
assurances, the “party” let itself go:
The savage German Fascists have
launched a new aggression against Poland,
and the B'ritish Empire and France are at
war with Germany. This war, launched
for the purpose of the conquest of Poland
and its subjection to the Fascist empire of
Hitler, of Krupp and Thyssen, the German
monopoly capitalists, is an act of stark
aggression without justification of any kind
whatever. Therefore lovers of justice and
liberty throughout the world will support
the struggle of the Polish people for their
independence and against enslavement to
a foreign Power.
This mood lasted for nearly a fort-
night, during which the pledge to Poland
was repeated, with an interesting addi-
tion: —
The Communist party supports the Polish
people in their war against the savage Nazi
Fascists. In the event that a voluntary
expeditionary force is organised for use in
any part of the world to safeguard Aus-
tralia from aggression and/or to partici-
pate directly in the struggle to defeat the
aggressor armies [yes, armies ], the Com-
munist party will advise fit and available
members to offer their services.
The ink had scarcely dried on this
declaration when it came out that there
were two invading armies in Poland.
Straightway one was discovered to be
“engaged in saving the Ukrainian and
White Russian minorities from the Nazi
invasion and its accompanying horrors,”
as well as rescuing “the 5,000,000 Polish
Jews,” among whom were Ehrlich and
Alter, not then put to death. At the
same time the Government to which the
comrades had promised moral support
and an “in-the-event” expeditionary
force, with Corns, in it (interval for
laughter), became “the Government of
the Polish ruling class,” guilty of having
“landed the Polish people in a barbarous
massacre.”
In ensuing months war guilt was trans-
ferred to the British and French ruling
classes, with Chamberlain and Daladier
the chief criminals. The struggle became
“an imperialist blood bath” and Austra-
lians were counselled not only to keep out
of it but to sabotage defence industries
and enrol in the party of revolution. And
so it went on until June 22, 1941, when
the “imperialist war” became “a people’s
war” overnight. Then Poland was re-
stored to favor, being not only one of
the United Nations, but a party to an
alliance with Russia, and their leader suf-
fered a sea-change into “the gallant
Sikorski.”
Now he is one with “the traitor
Michailovitch,” only worse.
IN A LITTLE GREY HOME IN THE WEST.
“Mr. Curtin’s efforts to allay fears that his Government would introduce socialism were frustrated by the rampantly socialistic utterances of Mr. Ward, who reached Perth
just after the P.M.”
“Here’s that man again!”


THAT
*
*
the
let Sense, not Sentiment,
Choose your Executor
In making your Will, the problem of choosing your Executor must be faced.
The claims of friendship may dictate that an old friend should be asked to
undertake this arduous and responsible task. Frankly, it may be a compliment,
but it is not a kindly act. And it is not even a wise one. With the best
intentions, your friend may not be equal to the task. He may even die before
the work is completed. So be wise. Let sense, not sentiment, dictate your
choice of an executor. Investigate the special service offered by Burns Philp
Trust Company Limited a permanent institution under experienced and
capable direction. It has the combined knowledge of finance, taxation, and
investments which no Individual executor could be expected to possess. Write
for an explanatory booklet, now.
DIRECTORS—James Burns • Robert John Nosworthy - Lewis Armstrong - Joseph Mitchell
Manager—C. H. Chester
Burns Philp Trust
COMPANY LIMITED
1 BRIDGE STREET. SYDNEY
PHONE: B 7901.
Box 543 B. G.P.0., Sydney.
BP 14-43
YOU CAN STILL INVEST
IN NATIONAL SAVINGS BONDS
AND WAR SAVINGS CERTIFICATES
MAKE YOUR MONEY FIGHT
Space by the Manufacturers of
REG? TRADE MARK
SAUCE
POLITICAL POINTS
Returning to Perth for rest and mental
refreshment, Curtin came out with “a
clear and unqualified declaration” against
socialisation in war-time. Going to
Perth, not for rest and -mental refresh-
ment, but to put the width of the con-
tinent between him and Chief Arbitra-
tion Judge Piper and the metal-trades
work-stoppage. Ward came out with “a
clear and unqualified declaration” in
favor of socialisation in war-time, speci-
fying banking and insurance. Curtin is
Ward’s “leader.”
Every time misfortune attends our
fighting men—and it has never spared
the brave in any war —some Sydney daily
is sure to snarl or squeal. Last year the
Eighth Army was the target for this
valor of ignorance; last week it was the
R.A.A.F. The worst offence, con-
densed ;
What is wrong at Darwin? It has
been customary in R.A.A.F. circles and
among Spitfire pilots to cast aspersions
why then this bad result? Darwin
is directly under the control of the
R.A.A.F. organisation pannikin offi-
cers of high rank groundlarks
The Government must frankly inform the
public whether these fine machines were
efficiently handled, not only by their pilots
but by their ground organisation.
This, the dead limit of ungenerosity and
ingratitude, appeared in the “Daily
Mirror.”
In Joe Coates, dead at 64, the N.S.W.
Parliament has lost one of its few per-
sonalities —a Labor man who stood up
to Lang when Labor men who hated the
Big Fellow more followed him with the
utmost servility. Never in its history of
10 years has the House that Stevens
Rebuilt lost three such men as Coates,
Mitchell and Grayndler in so short a
space. It is still in no immediate danger
of descending to the intellectual and de-
bating standards of the other shop,
though Trades Hallers are picking out the
empty seats for themselves.
Concerning the Parliamentary election
of successors to the departed Coates,
Mitchell and Grayndler, Ms.L.C., E. C,
Sommerlad offers a suggestion;
At present five N.S.W. Opposition mem-
bers arc at action stations. Two Labor
members are in the forces, but both are
in the vicinity of Sydney and able to attend
the House when required. Is it too much
to suggest to the Government that the
soldier members of the Labor party should
unofficially pair with two soldier members
of the Opposition on active service and
that the three additional Opposition soldier
absentees are also protected?
Though Sommerlad is an old newspaper-
man, he was never previously thought to
have such a talent for irony.
Though stormed at by Leftists in the
U.S.A. and Britain, Uncle Sam’s political
arrangements in French North and West
Africa have been uncommonly success-
ful, and his military reverse in February,
admitted with refreshing frankness, has
been amply avenged. But just when Uncle
had every right to feel proud and glad,
another annoying interruption came from
De Gaulle, who wanted to play politics
once more. Giraud offered to meet him
anywhere but in Algiers. De Gaulle’s
testy reply was that he couldn’t “risk
tete-a-tete discussions,” and that he
would see Giraud only in Algiers and
only with the object of setting up a “cen-
tral authority”—with himself, of course,
at the head. What followed from Wash-
ington is a diplomatic secret, but it would
be a miracle if De Gaulle wasn’t bidden
to remember that Giraudists have done
all the fighting for France, without play-
ing politics.
Robert, the impenitent Petainist who
is Governor of Martinique, is giving
Washington a headache. The U.S. Navy
could dispose of him in a few hours, but
only at the risk of a negro insurrection
which might have nasty repercussions in
the Republic’s own black belt. In a
New York “Daily News” study of the
southern States’ movement against the
New Deal, it is mentioned, on the author-
ity of “responsible southerners,” that “race
relations .in the South are terribly
strained.” In any case, black risings
against whites in the Antilles have a
terrible history.
“Well, that’s five less to work, Charlie!”
Discussing the drift to the city, and
pleading that his Government had “tried
hard to stop it,” Dunstan made the in-
teresting point that over many years the
only Victorian rural districts that have
increased their population are irrigation
districts. He added that “by means of
irrigation the Murray valley could be
made to flourish like the Valley of the
Nile and support a million people.” And
so it could ; but only on a basis of plain
living and high thinking. There would
be no fortune in it for anyone.
According to J. B. Martin, a Sydney
Labor M.L.C., “the fighting forces could
not carry on a day without the workers.”
They’ve managed to carry on quite a few
days without N.S.W. coalminers, wharfies
and metal workers. They might even
carry on without J. B. Martin, M.L.C.
Ward has had to back down again, this
time to Chief Arbitration Judge Piper.
On the strength of a printed report he
stigmatised the Chief Judge as a servant
of the Government, and commanded his
Honor to behave as such to his betters
in all humility. He blames the press —
again. But he couldn’t have learned from
any newspaper that any Judge is a ser-
vant of the Government.
Stated that a Premiers’ Conference is
unlikely until Dr. Evatt returns. That’s
enough to make a lot of people wish that
the doctor would remain in Washington.
According to the Australian Wheat
Board chairman, Clive McPherson, the
1942-43 harvest yielded 142,500,000
bushels, which has to be added to the
207.000. bushels of unsold wheat
from the Nos. 5 and 6 pools ; and nearly
8.000. bushels from the Nos. 2 and 4
pools is still held. Not enough is heard
about these continuing wheat figures.
Australia’s greatest city is facing a milk
famine because dairy cows are short of
feed.
Chifley’s latest in the window-dressing
line is a non-contributory scheme of
payments to non-existent unemployed.
Estimated cost, when unemployed can be
found, is £23,000,000, and it is expected
to have a mellifluous sound on election
platforms,
“The Labor Day holiday was charac-
terised by an almost complete disappear-
ance of absenteeism in Brisbane war in-
dustries,” said Brisbane “Courier-Mail.”
Then it mordantly added, “a double-time
penalty rate of pay operated for the day.”
Brand, in the Senate on February 25:
Will the Government make it obligatory
on electors to produce their identity cards
when asking for ballot papers?
Joseph Silver Ceilings took a month to
think it over, and then took 400 words
or so to say the Government wouldn’t.
It is “not thought” by the gentleman
who leads in the Senate that “any appre-
ciable degree of personation is indulged
in at Federal elections.” Since Joseph
burbled thus—he burbled also that com-
pulsory production of identity cards in
polling booths “would not only cause
grave displeasure but conceivably might
affect the result in a closely-contested
electorate” “gross -irregularities” in
Labor pre-selection ballots have engaged
the attention of the Sydney A.L.P. execu-
tive. People who resort to “gross irregu-
larities” in these Labor ballots wouldn’t,
of course, repeat them at the expense of
the capitalistic enemy. They are too
high-minded.
C. G. Fallon, secretary of the Queens-
land A.W.U., said there had been no
industrial trouble on C.C.C. jobs in
Queensland because C.C.C. officers
were always willing to negotiate with the
unions and because all members of the
C.C.C. were required to join a union.
So it couldn’t possibly have been because
the men realised that a vast alien horde
was just across the sea, waiting a chance
to swarm down into Australia.
A locomotive and tender, travelling
backwards, crashed into a loaded bus
on a level crossing near Wodonga (Vic.)
on Saturday, and 23 soldiers, a V.A. and
the bus driver were killed, 14 others being
injured, some dreadfully. Level-crossing
accidents are distressingly frequent, and
this one, depriving the nation of lives
peculiarly precious to it just now, should
move the responsible authorities to action.
It shouldn’t be possible, with the modern
safety devices available, for a road vehicle
to be on a level crossing while a rail
vehicle is approaching it within half a mile.
Members of an Australian merchant
ship which sank after being tor-
pedoed had to wait shivering for hours
while officials debated the problem of
how they could possibly be clothed when
they hadn’t any coupons. You can’t beat
an official, and Australia has more
officials to the acre today thafi it had to
the mile in pre-war days.
In other days there was a healthy agita-
tion in Victoria against plural voting. For
upwards of a decade Victorians have
been content with an arrangement of
electoral boundaries which gives a
country vote three, four and five times
the value of a city vote. It shows that
for the majority State politics have
ceased to have any meaning.
Praise for J. Bull used to be rare on
U.S. platforms. Nowadays it is a com-
monplace. A nutrition expert, speaking
at a New York conference, said that the
British had achieved the “remarkable
feat of lowering the infant deathrate to
20 per cent, below the pre-war average,”
chiefly by “making special provision for
feeding children and pregnant or nursing
mothers and ensuring them first call on
eggs and citrus fruits.” We are not doing
that in Australia,
The Sydney Premier got a couple of
jolts from the N.S.W. Chief Justice last
week. The first had to do with a Full
Court appeal by a cabaret owner against
the closing of his joint under a National
Security Regs, order, the Chief Justice
remarking dryly that the Premier had
exceeded powers limited in his case to
“exercise for the purpose of defence
or for protection of civil life —he cannot
give himself additional powers by his
own vain imaginings.” In the same
court on the same day ap order dis-
pensing with the taking of Police Court
depositions in summary-jurisdiction cases
were declared invalid. Here the
C.J. observed harshly that the order was
a “denial of justice to an accused per-
son —it prevents him from exercising a
statutory right of appeal.” Legal opinion
holds that all convictions in cases where
no depositions were taken have become
null and void. It ought to teach provin-
cial politicians not to meddle with the
law —but it won’t.


EXB4-42
Let’s Call a Halt on Thoughtless Buying
If the way you buy gives comfort to the Axis, it’s time to call a halt. Buy only
when you must and buy only longer-lasting things . . . for long, hard service. In
this wav, you help Australia’s war effort.
BATTERIES
Still Keep Going When the Rest Have Stopped
Let this be Your
Wartime Slogan.
PERSONAL ITEMS
Premier Dunstan is the most reticent
Premier Victoria has ever had ; even the
date of his birth isn’t in Who’s Who.
However, it turned out the other day on
his own confession that his farmer-
father’s assets were two horses, a plough,
a set of harrows and 10 children, and
that Dunstan, senior, used to cart his
wheat 100 miles to Ballarat.
Korumburra, South Gippsland (Vic.),
the 3000-odd town lately mentioned for
providing the Army with three lieut.-
colonels, all C.Os., comes into the picture
again—four men decorated within six
months. W.O. Ken Joyce and Sergeant
George Berry earned the D.C.M. and
Sergeant Ron Freeman the M.M.
at El Alamein. More recently Alan
Robb gained the D.F.M. Last year local
bank-teiler Bob Joshua earned the M.C.
The town—one of the prettiest in Vic-
toria —has a keen and efficient V.D.C.,
V.A.D. detachment and a 100-p.c.-attend-
ance air-spotters’ corps. Pre-war it went
in for the militia seriously; the local
drill hall had a waiting list for prospective
marshals.
Ex-Moderator of the Presbyterian
Assembly Dr. Button belongs to the class
of muscular Christians whose main exer-
cise is walking. On one peregrination
from Ballarat to Geelong the only lift
he was offered was from a beer-wagon
driver. The new holder of the office,
C. A. BERENDSEN.
He is Maoriland’s first High Commis-
sioner to Australia.
Professor Hector Maclean, has done most
of his walking in the cloisters of Ormond
College, Melbourne, where he is Profes-
sor of Old Testament Studies. Born at
Lismore (N.S.W.), he was educated at
Otago University (M.L.) and ordained at
Glasgow. A little man, he is a bundle
of energy in the pulpit and on the ros-
trum. At his installation he announced
himself as a crusader against all the social
evils that beset the common man.
R.C. Padre Aylward has a regulai
church in the Owen Stanleys at a spot
which only a few months ago saw hard
fighting. The structure is 25ft. broad and
60ft. long. Padre Aylward, stripped to
shorts and exuding sweat from every
pore, himself tackled the job of building,
and Diggers of his flock gave their rest
days to getting timber. The padre is a
young man who was curate at Lane Cove
before he offered himself for duty with
the forces.
J. P. Morgan, America’s Great Man
of Money, will be missed about the little
Hertfordshire village of Aldenham (he
went out in March). There he had for
years acted the squire, and, though it
was vaguely known locally that he had
“something to do with banking,” he never
talked about anything but stockbreeding
and farming. “Ai,” said a villager, inter-
viewed after the great banker’s death,
“his main interest was pigs.”
One of the last of the countless good
deeds done in his lifetime by globetrotter
and writer J. H. Curie, who lately passed
on in Canada, was to hand quarter of
a million dollars as a gift to the British
Government —his personal contribution
to the Allied war effort.
Brigadier John Hargest, M.P. (he repre-
sents Awarua, Joe Ward’s old seat) and
Brigadier Reginald Miles, Maoriland
commanders who, within a few days of
each other, fell into the enemy’s hands
in Libya in December, have arrived in
Switzerland, having made their escape
from a prison camp near Florence in
Italy. Hargest, a 1914-18 war veteran
(D. 5.0., M.C. and Legion of Honor),
commanded the Fifth N.Z. Infantry Bri-
gade in the present scrap. Miles, who
won his M.C. at Gallipoli and his D.S.O.
in France in 1918, was Q.M.G., M.L.
Forces, when this war broke out,
Mrs. A. N. Grigg (Nat., Mid-Canter-
bury, M.L.) has announced that, because
of continued ill-health, she won’t seek re-
election. Her addresses in the House
were remarkable for high ideals and
horse-sense. A handsome woman, with
a strong personality, she could rise above
party politics and parish-pump triviali-
ties.
Veteran M.L. Labor leader Arthur Cook,
one of the passengers on the Californian
Star, which was torpedoed 100 miles off
the coast of the Azores, was last seen .on
a raft with the chief officer. There is a
possibility, though only faint, of the two
having been rescued by a passing
steamer; a number of other passengers
were rescued, but nothing has been heard
of Cook, who was on his way to
London to a conference of British trade-
unionists. Cook was general sec. of the
N.Z. Workers’ Union when he was ap-
pointed to the Upper House. He’d done
the sec. job for 18 years.
From a colleague;
Joseph Farrar Coates, M.L.C., just dead in
the middle sixties, could fairly claim to be a
Labor pioneer. A high-powered salesman for a
big Sydney wholesale hardware house, he was
one of a little group that put in Saturday
nights on suburban streets pleading the Cause
what time fellow-travellers played safe with
an ear to the ground and an eye on the boss.
In 1910 Coates ran for Bathurst, and, narrowly
defeated, indicated Bathurst as a Labor possi-
bility. The Storey Government nominated
him to the Legislative Council, and a few years
later, despite the opposition of Lang himself,
the first successful Lang party elected him to
Cabinet rank. The Big Fellow then churlishly
played his card and refused to give Joe any-
thing to do, with nothing for doing it. Presently
Coates was in the general exodus from Lang
Labor. A hustling, enterprising and friendly
type of man, he was twice generously elected
to the “reformed” Upper House, mostly by the
votes of men of parties that owed him very
little.
Lord Hewart, Lord Chief Justice from
1922 to 1940, had links with both Aus-
tralia and Maoriland. A brother was
well known in Sydney and Melbourne
and in The Bulletin office at both
those addresses; he belonged to the
always very assorted ranks of Bulletin
contributors. The link with M.L. came
with Lord Hewart’s marrying in 1934 a
daughter of James Reid Stewart, of Wan-
ganui. The eldest son of his first marriage
was killed and the second son invalided
in the 1914-18 scrap. Former Solicitor-
General and Attorney-General (in the
latter capacity he lent a hand at the
Peace Conference), Lord Hewart’s varied
activities (strung out at length in Who’s
Who) included being a trustee of the
British Museum, the “Times” and the
National Police Fund ; member of many
Masonic lodges, and J.P. of Herts.
The faithful in four States have been
ministered to by Rev. N. H. Joughin,
present Moderator of the Presbyterian
Church of Queensland. After being
director of the Welfare of Youth De-
partment of the N.S.W. Presbyterian
Assembly, he was minister at Maffra
(Vic.), then at Mortlake (Vic.), before
going to South Brisbane. From there
he went to Scots Church, Hobart, and
in 1939 to St. Stephen’s, Toowoomba.
John Frederick Ward, M.A., is well
and truly a headmaster—head Adel-
aide’s Prince Alfred College, recently
i n Sydney appointed president of the
Aus. Headmasters’ Conference, and
chairman of the Headmasters Assoc, in
the S.A. capital. He’s also a member of
** wlh.ch
it i i , i , ti
° £ his in Nof,h (at
HEADMASTER WARD.
hampton Grammar and as first head of
Thornleigh College, at the Towers) and
a six-year stretch of it in the West
(Wesley College, South Perth). He stands
well over six feet.
Francis Dominic McTague, after prac-
tising as a solicitor in N.S.W. for some
15 years, has moved to Adelaide on Com-
monwealth legal business, and has just
been “admitted to the Bar” in S.A., which
makes no distinction between the two
branches of the profession.
Thirty-eight years ago Tom Waddy
started with Adelaide Steamship Co. as
a junior. Today he’s manager and secre-
tary in S.A. Between times he was for a
while the co.’s accountant in Sydney,
where he swung a pretty strong opening
bat for Manly. Back in S.A., he cap-
tained Glenelg over a stretch of years.
His father, R. W. M. Waddy, was Deputy
P.M.G. for 10 years, and paternal grand-
dad was the first doctor at Kapunda
mines close on a century ago. Tom’s
TOM WADDY.
son John, who topped the State in Leav-
jn g honors last year, is carrying on
studies in granddad’s line.
Jim Sparkes, the Dalby (Q.) man who
breeds Herefords and, probably as a
contrast to such a quiet business, holds
down a State Assembly seat, was respon-
sible for awarding the Hereford cham-
pionship to the Myall Creek bull Wind-
sor Liberator at the recent Sydney Cattje
Show. The champ, later made the record
auction price of 3100gns. It’s the second
time Sparkes’s judgment has been justi-
fied. At a previous Sydney show he gave
the championship to a Hobartville bull,
Royal Ringer, then 15 months old. Some
cattlemen thought it wasn’t right to make
a youngster a champion, but the Ringer
made 1050gns. and went to Golf Hill to
lead that herd.
Seymour Hawker, Adelaide’s Mayor
for the past two years, is to have the
experience, locally unusual, of a contest
for the seat, being opposed by Reg
Walker, now an alderman. The electing
is done by the whole body of ratepayers.
All the council members recently elected
unopposed got a shock when the official
declaration of the result was challenged
by a colleague on the ground that, by
error of the clerks responsible for print-
ing the nomination papers, they had not
declared themselves to be British sub-
jects. The returning officer, Lavington
Bonython, himself a frequent former
Mayor, ruled that, as he personally knows
them all to be so, the omission can be
taken as one of those “immaterial” points
which the Act allows him to disregard.
Legal opinion seems to be that a separate
and later declaration can put the matter
right, as no Court would be likely to
uphold a protest unless non-British status
could actually be shown.
Born at Mayston (Vic.) E. Withers was
in turn storekeeper, goldminer, farmer
and coachdriver before founding the Mel-
bourne concern Pioneer Tours, which has
become a war casualty. From small be-
ginnings in 1905, when the firm had one
car, a capital of £4OO and an itinerary
which went little further than the outer
suburbs, Pioneer Tours grew to be the
biggest touring company in Australia,
with a record of 40,000 passengers car-
ried over 2,000,000 miles of Australian
highway and byway, and a regular
schedule which included Adelaide, Perth,
Sydney, Brisbane and Darwin. The Dar-
win tour was made 40 times and the con-
tinent was circumnavigated three times.
Four sons carried on the business.
Into the silence:
In Sydney, at 86, little Wallace Nelson,
editor of the “Manufacturer” for many years.
Journalist and plattorm lecturer in Britain,
witty and forceful with tongue and pen, Nelson
came to Australia, apparently broken in health,
about half a century ago. The Queensland
climate set him up, and as a Rockhampton
(Q.) editor he just missed becoming the Labor
member for Capricornia at the first Com-
monwealth election. Going to Westralia, he
edited the “Westralian Worker” and the
Kalgoorlie “Sun” and wrote leaders for the
Perth “Daily News,” in between serving a
term as a goldfields Labor Assemblyman. He
was a “character,” and a most attractive one.
In Sydney, at 56, Dr. James Hughes, lead-
ing gynaecologist, and held by many to have
been the greatest of N.S.W. Rugby Union
forwards. He was a son of John Hughes,
M.L.C. in the N.S.W. Parliament over a long
stretch of years and a Minister with Reid,
Carruthers and Wade Governments. Dr. James
Hughes married twice. Children of the first
marriage have a splendid war record —James,
Desmond and Tony are returned A.I.F. men;
Bryan is A.1.F.; Rodney is with the R.A.A.F.
in England.
At 91, in Melbourne, Mrs. Mary ffrench
Conolly, in her day one of Victoria's most
dashing horsewomen. Her family were pioneers
of the ’forties at Hamilton.
Edmund Parker, associated with Maoriland
through fifty years’ connection with Dalgetys.
Eighth son of the sixth Earl of Macclesfield,
he joined the co. in Dunedin and three years
later became manager in Christchurch. Forty
years ago he was appointed to the board of
directors in London, and was chairman when
he retired a couple of years back.
At Hobart, at 62, George Arnold, for 46
years a partner in the biscuit firm of Arnold’s.
Formerly a keen footballer.
Frederick George Grant, of Hobart, got his
B.A. and LL.B. at Cambridge and was ad-
mitted to the Inner Temple. He had a financial
interest in several Tasmanian firms, and was a
leading member of the Tasmanian Club.
Veteran of the M.L. Turf “Dick” Hannon,
president of the Cambridge Trotting Club,
vice-president of the Waikato Hunt, and a
leading member of the Waikato Central Agri-
cultural and Pastoral Assoc. With Tinopai he
won the Te Kuiti Cup five times in succession.
At 63, John Fuller Woodward, of Welling-
ton (M.L.), printer by trade, violinist by incli-
nation. He was one of those chosen for Alfred
Hill’s symphony orchestra (Christchurch Exhi-
bition, 1905-6), leader of countless Wellington
orchestras since then, and conductor of the
latest Wellington Operatic Society. He married
Amy Hyde, also well known in Maoriland
musical circles.
Frank Hill (in Adelaide at 66) was one of
six brothers who all played in the S.A. cricket
XL Clem, the most famous of them, came
at about the middle of a big family. Their
father, John Hill, had made the first century
ever hit on the Adelaide Oval in the days when
S.A. still played 18 against any visitors; he was
one of the three S.A. Railways Commissioners,
but also head of a coaching firm that in the
Southern State rivalled Cobb and Co. of
further east.


Society
"AND IT'S PRINTED
WITH WIMBLE'S INKS"
lt was in Malaya, and our
mob was retreating from Mersing to
Singapore Island. Our officers had
warned us to be prepared for a possible
ambush, as the Japs were known to be
in some force in the jungle alongside the
road. One night, just before dawn, a
most unearthly scream awakened the
camp. This was followed immediately
by the shouted warning “Look out, boys,
they are all around us.” Then silence,
utter and complete. Instantly, every man
was on his feet with loaded rifle and fixed
bayonet, and the will to sell out at the
highest price. Things remained in this
state until daylight, when a member of
“I’m looking for Mr. Pryskyshavitch."
“What initial ?”
the M.Ts. came down the road whistling
unconcernedly. He was dragged down
angrily into the undergrowth. “Quiet,
you fool,” he was told ; “do you want to
be shot? Don’t you know that the Japs
are all around us?” He got calmly to
his feet and laughed. “That’s what Bluey
Smith thought,” he replied. “He had a
nishtmare. Must be the rich food we
are getting.”
“Niloc”: Despite shortages of sherbet
King’s Cross (Sydney) parties aren’t get-
ting any quieter. Recently an unfortunate
gent, found himself sandwiched between
two such eruptions —one above which
caused his ceiling to descend in flakes,
and one beneath which made his bed
quiver like a jelly. Braving the tremors,
he managed to cross the room, hurl up
the window and impart through it an
impassioned protest. A passing tram
shied at the outburst, but the objector
had the satisfaction of seeing the last
flake of the snowstorm settle, and his
bed remained steadfast for the rest of
the night. He was glad he did not live
in Portugal. There you can buy a noise-
permit. If you merely wish to hurl the
piano about all night the charge is about
25., but for really raising old Harry the
fee might run as high as 7s. 6d.
* * * *
“Pawang”: Psychology is all the
fashion in Melbourne these days, and a
corps of the new priesthood interrogated
750 university students in two days re-
cently, to discover their aptitudes or
something, regardless of the fact that
Freud used to take years examining a
patient before he, dared to come to
any opinion about him. Now girls
schools have taken up the notion, and
the Hornsby (N.S.W.) Girls’ High in-
cluded in its general-knowledge paper
such questions as: “Do you go to the
pictures often?” “Do you go out with
boys?” “Do you go out with Allied
soldiers?” “Does mother do war work?”
and “Does she expect you to get mar-
ried soon?” What could be learned
from the answers to such questions is
difficult to imagine, but answers even to
fool questions are sometimes illuminating.
A university undergraduate, asked why
he had taken three years to do his first
year in architecture, explained “I have
no aptitude for architecture ; my mother
insists upon my being an architect.”
* * * *
“N. Souther”: “Doric’s” explanation
of the reason why there are so many
dialects in the British Isles (B. 5/5/’43)
should be taken to heart by Australians.
Before the war State transport authorities
were doing their best to separate the
country into insular city-States, and since
the war a somewhat farcical system of
travel priorities seeks to confine the
greatest floating population on earth into
circumscribed limits. Liberty of move-
ment about our continent must be safe-
guarded if the time is not to come when
you’ll be able to pick a Croweater or a
Cabbage Gardener by his idioms and
vowels.
* * * *
“Spasebo”: The ro-mantic sort of talkie
addict doesn’t really care for films like
“Moscow Strikes Back.” Hollywood has
accustomed the breed to much more
convincing spectacles. It can stage Baby-
lon burning or a hurricane at sea, with
a liner sinking and people swimming in
the water, with a wealth ol detail impos-
sible to the newsreel man. He is a poor
movie cameraman who can’t manufac-
ture a storm at sea in a domestic bath-
tub. When F. W. Thring launched his
Australian picture enterprise in the burnt-
out shell of His Majesty’s Theatre he had
a set built representing the gangway of
an ocean liner. Publicity men promptly
took advantage of it, and when an emi-
nent visitor arrived from overseas, in-
stead of battling with the mob down on
the wharves and perhaps getting a very
uncomplimentary picture of the great
man, they rang him up at his hotel and
told him a taxi would convey him to
Thring’s joint; there he would be photo-
graphed descending the gangway and
bowing to the frenzied plaudits in ease
and comfort. The number of distin-
guished foreigners who descended that
gangway is nobody’s business ; and only
they themselves know how many Aus-
tralian statesmen have stepped out of
the portion of a ’plane which serves a
similar function for visitors from Sydney
in another studio in Melbourne.
“ We'd better 'op into this quick or we'll miss the route march."
“Melbn”: The claim that twins weigh-
ing 30 ounces recently born in New York
contribute a world’s record brought the
usual crop of denials in Melbourne, and
it also raised the question of the subse-
quent history of these infants. Well, there
is the case of the Gluyas family, of St
Kilda. A daughter born in Adelaide in
1906 turned the scales at 12 ounces. A
son born four years later weighed 20
ounces. The daughter is now married
and living in Sydney and has always been
a normal, healthy Australian. The son
stands sft. lOin. in his socks, weighs list.
51b. and is in the R.A.A.F. abroad, so his
physique is beyond suspicion. The doctor
who brought the pair into the world was
Henry Newland, of Adelaide,
president of the Federal Council
of the B.M.A. in Australia.
* * *
“Sow and Pigs”: Mention of
an incident in the youthful career
of W. C. Wentworth (B. 28/4/’43)
recalls another that happened not
long afterwards. Lieut.-Governor
Molle, O.C. his Majesty's 46th
Regiment, was particularly bitter
against “emancipists” people
who had come to N.S.W. as con-
victs and served their sentences,
though some of them, such as Dr.
Redfern and Dr. Bland, were
much better men than the colonel.
Molle’s supercilious treatment of
Sydney’s two leading surgeons
angered Dr. D’Arcy Wentworth
and his son, William Charles. In
1816 a “pipe,” or roll of paper,
was found in the military bar-
racks in which Molle was ridi-
culed for the hypocrisy of his atti-
tude towards Governor Mac-
quarie :
What time he feigns with friend-
ship’s warmth to glow,
He proves himself the bitterest,
deadliest foe.
He was also otherwise libelled on
account of his vanity, overbearing
conduct and capacity for in-
trigue:—
[He] seems averse in factions’ toils to fall,
Himself the secret spring, propelling all.
Molle “bit” immediately, and a reward
of £2OO was offered by military head-
quarters for the discovery of the author.
But no one knew it was young Went-
worth until he himself confessed. Early
in 1816 he had booked his passage to
England, and on the voyage to the Cape
wrote to tell his father that he was the
writer of the lampoon. In his attitude
to “military pundits” our contemporary
Wentworth, “Young Bill,” is very like his
ancestor.
“T. McN. : Heath ]Yi n g
sought to convey that a party toni J 1 |
through the earth had . . and
by putting m pictures of . been
kangaroos (B. 5/43), wo
on surer ground had he p P ts
picture with politicians and civil se
* * * ' T th : n T<- ir.
“Oxmead J lte ’*rrbhishoD
“El V.’s” admirable tribute to Archbishop
Wand, of Brisbane about o
lated to England (B. 5/5/ 43),
correction, i.e., the assumption i t u
bishopric of Bath and Wells c ~ ,
it a seat in the House of Lor •
24 out of twoscore English P
sit in that august Chamber, a . ,
three of these by right of their P
jurisdictions London, Winches e
Durham. Twenty-one more m
spiritual peers, so to speak, in or er
seniority ; that is, those wno hav
consecrated longest make up the quota.
Consequently, the remaining 16 are
always on the “waiting list,” and a brand-
new bishop, however historic and ancient
his see, takes his place at the end of the
queue.
* * * *
At a banquet in Spain:
Velasquez—not only Court Painter but Master
of Ceremonies to the Spanish Court —staged
magnificent spectacles for Philip the Fourth,
but probably nothing he did in that line ex-
ceeded in lavishness the coming out at Seville the
other day of the Lady Maria del Rosario Caye-
tana, only child of the Spanish Ambassador in
London (the Duke of Alba). The Duke in-
vited 2000 guests to his 15th-century palace
and regaled them with cocktails costing £1
apiece. Perico Chicote, Spain’s leading cocktail-
shaker, mixed the potion. Those present in-
cluded Arthur Ferdinand Yencken, M.C., 8.A.,
the Australian who is British Minister to
Madrid. He may have opened his eyes at
some things, but not at the bar nearly 30
yards long, because it isn’t anything like as
long as the bar at the Labor Club at Mildura
in his home State. Yencken has had a pictur-
esque career. Born in Melbourne in 1894, he
was educated at Melbourne Grammar and
Corpus Christi, Cambridge, joined the Inns of
Court Cavalry in 1914, got a commisson m
1916, was twice gassed and wounded, and
retired with the rank of major. Then he joined
J. Bull’s diplomatic service and started shoot-
ing upwards, serving at Washington, on the
League of Nations, at Berlin, at Rome and
Cairo (in Egypt he was Acting High Commis-
sioner on several occasions). He was
appointed Counsellor to the British Embassy at
Madrid in 1939 and became British Minister
in 1940,
A SIDE-ISSUE OF SEX.
“The Man-power authorities have discovered that
much better results are obtained from call-ups of
women and girls required to transfer t-orn
tial to essential jobs when the interviewing is done
by men instead or women.
It’s never too late, Mr. Bellemore, to learn,
So, keep in your erudite nob
What pundits of less academic a turn
Would have grasped at the start of the job.
It’s an apothegm all confutation beyond,
An axiom old as the hills,
That Jennies will always be apt to respond
More surely to Jacks than to Jills
When warned about what they’re expected to do.
And the converse, I take it, is equally true.
’Tis a law of the sexes, I’m moved to suggest,
A trait that’s incessantly shown,
That each by the other will more be impressed
Than either would be by its own.
The dominant male by whom women are
swayed
Is a figure familiar for sure;
But, with men in the case, there’s as much to
be said
For the pull that’s in feminine lure.
Hence both are equipped for imposing their
wills,
The Jills upon Jacks, and the Jacks upon Jills.
With girls to be listed and “man-powered,”
then
Officialdom’s learned, it appears,
It’s better to leave the persuasion to men —
They’re firmer perhaps with the dears.
More definite, too; for it’s well understood.
Injunctions that mildly perplex
Have far more effect than they otherwise would
When they come from the opposite sex.
’Tis the way, I suppose, in which people are
made.
Some like to obey, and some being obeyed.
But I think that the “conchies,” the chaps who
abhor,
For reasons they give you in shoals.
The notion of being dragged into the war
From the innermost depths of their souls,
Their cases should state before feminine boards
Instead of the Dracos who shake
Grim heads at their pleadings. It sort of
accords
With the point I’ve been trying to make.
When law and when justice have both gone
askew,
No telling what womanly coaxing might do.
N.S.W.
T. THE R.
OR ELSE.
Or else! How grim a sound is in the threat!
Two tiny monosyllables, no more,
Hinting if you neglect some task you’re set
That grievous consequences will be met
You haven’t bargained for.
Or else! Its very shadowiness is such
As breeds disquiet and provokes distress.
Just what it indicates, and just how much,
Gives the recipient an extra touch
Of apprehensiveness.
“Fill up the war loans,” Mr. Curtin says,
“Dip in your stockings for the needed pel,
0r e i se ”. Again the quaint elliptic phrase
That you may terminate in any ways
You like to choose yourself.
Or else! It meets you now on every hand,
A subtle warning you’d best obey
Unquestionably every new command
That Dedman and his bureaucratic band
Devise from day to day.
Or else! A sword of Damocles one knows,
Is this, suspended over most of us.
So let me haste my artless lay to close,
Forbearing further fancies, I suppose,
Or else—’t might miss the bus.
N.S.W.
IFORD.


“Jamwood”: Parliamentarians with a
talent for mimicry are treasured by legis-
lators in their hours of ease. I have
known three —Jacky Hardwick, “Liberal”
M.L.A. for East Perth ; Harold Milling-
ton, the present Westralian Labor Min-
ister of Works, and Joe Coates, M.L.C.,
whose craggy face will be seen in Mac-
quarie-street, Sydney, no more. Each of
these worthies enlivened many a gather-
ing by “taking off” contemporary poli-
ticians. Hardwick’s masterpiece was John
Forrest welcoming T’othersiders to “this
great country—ugh—yes, great country —
ugh—but don’t think you’re going to run
this great country —ugh— I’m going to
do that.” Coates had a wider range and
possessed an extraordinary memory. I
once heard him give a marvellous imita-
tion of Willie Kelly (afterwards a Com-
monwealth Minister) and The Bulletin’s
John Dailey, each with the polish of an
English education but with vastly different
mannerisms, vocal equipments and plat-
form methods, addressing the free and
unwashed of Wentworth. Though the
locusts had eaten 36 years, he had every
point perfect, rounding off the story with
a lively description of the free and un-
washed lining up after each explosion of
rhetoric to bite the candidate’s ear.
,** * *
“0.T.”: Touching that Eureka par.
(B. 5/5/’43), I see where first prize in the
“non-union” displays at Sydney’s May
Day procession went to the Eureka
Youth Movement. The Communist
party tied for first, but “forfeited” to
the E.Y.M., doubtless to inspire it
to further effort and to offset any pos-
sible discouragement it may have suf-
fered from a Commonwealth rule ban-
ning drilling and training outside the
country’s legally armed forces —I sup-
pose no ardent Eureka Youth would
voluntarily be found in those forces.
There are Eureka Youths, I believe, all
over the place. It seems a pity they
should have to rely for inspiration on
a mouldy wrangle about licenses to dig
for gold when a much more appropriate
and recent upheaval is theirs for the tak-
ing—-the Melbourne police riots of 1923.
The “men of Eureka” are all dead, and
nearly all their contemporaries with
them, but hundreds of thousands now
living remember Derby night, 1923. Then
down with outworn Eureka and up, com-
rades, with the spirit of ’23! If you get
run in, some of the older hands will
come and bail you out.
* « ♦ *
“Ike Hollar”: The ever-increasing
speed of transport of course “annihilates
distance”; there is also a sense in which
it makes distances greater. When I was
a kid I often walked from the Spit Junc-
tion in Sydney to the Spit and back. It
seemed quite an easy jaunt; but it would
seem intolerably long today. So would
the walk I took, daily for years, from
Curl Curl to Manly to catch the boat. It
is not that age has cramped my style,
for I still love walking, but the slowness
of pedestrianism is rubbed in when trams
and buses scoot by covering in five
minutes the journey that will cost the
walker half an hour. In the same way
I expect that the man who has travelled
by air across the Atlantic must feel that
the fastest of steamships crawls like a
snail.
■* * * *
“Spokeshave”: It happened in a Mel-
bourne tramcar, and it may never happen
again anywhere in history unless
Nietzsche was right about Eternal Recur-
rence. A pair of twins, two young men
of about 22, dressed exactly alike, from
ties to socks, got into the tram and obvi-
ously expected to create a sensation, as
so many twins do. At the next stop a
woman got in carrying two two-year-old
babies, both also obviously twins and
both dressed exactly alike, even carrying
identical toys. A few stops further on
two girls of 12 got in, also obviously
twins, also garbed in precisely the same
fashion, and, like the two young men,
obviously expecting to be the cynosure
of ail eyes. Their amazement was laugh-
able when they discovered that the lime-
light was already divided.
* * * *'
“Hamfat”; When Dan Barry wandered
about the Commonwealth presenting
blood and thunder to his audiences and
giving away “real gold” watches valued
at at least 20s. to lucky members of his
audiences as an additional draw, the
melodrama “The Murder in the Red
Barn” stood high in his repertoire. In
England it had been found very popular
in the provinces, being founded on an
actual murder in a barn. Some English
cos. used the old barn itself as their
theatre. Interest in the play may be
revived by the discovery of the documents
in the case (which happened in 1829) in
the Town Clerk’s safe at Bury St.
Edmunds. The defending barrister had
six guineas marked on his brief. Times
have improved for Gents One.
» - « * *
“Nakhoda”: Melbourne “Sun-Pic-
torial” printed a photograph of Aamalud-
din, weight 141 b., fed on rice since he was
eight days old and claimed to be “the
first Javanese baby born in Australia.”
I doubt the last bit. Old Dutch records
mention Australian aboriginals serving as
palanquin-bearers for native sultans in
the days of the Dutch East India Co., and
centuries before those hardy Javanese
seamen must have frequented the north-
ern shores of Australia, because trepang
was a favorite comestible amongst the
Chinese population in their country. Java-
nese voyagers took their wives and fami-
lies with them, and there is no reason
to sunnose that they didn’t add to their
numbers.
* * * *
“Crookit”: T. S. Eliot, reading his
poems over the air (B. 28/4/’43),
might have been a dismal experience for
“Tuart,” but so it would be for anyone
who doesn’t mix with modern intellec-
tuals and know how to appreciate these
things. I once listened to a modern poet
reading his masterpiece. He explained that
it had taken him seven years to write,
and that a single phrase had caused him
to expend six months in strenuous con-
templation. Then he asked for the
"I burnt the chops , dear; all the washing came out a bright pink;
I think Alan's got the measles; and ”
lights to be turned down until there
was but a faint glimmer on his
MS., which was written on one of those
scrolls favored by the ancients, and
slowly unrolled and spread its coils about
the furniture as the reading proceeded.
When the poet had finished there was a
deep hush. I asked my next-door
neighbor for her opinion. “I think it was
lovely,” she murmured. “Did you under-
stand it?” I asked her. “Not a word,
not a word!” was her ecstatic rejoinder.
* * * *
“Ad.”: A fire that has been burning
in Adelaide for some 20 years has been
put out at last. The thickly-populated
Bowden suburb had an ancient claypit
smouldering, and the sulphur fumes are
pronounced dangerous to health, besides
discoloring washing on the line and even
metalwork in the homes. The fire brigade
has at last taken it seriously, even calling
in military sappers to dynamite the obsti-
nate bits while it deluged the lot.
* * * *
“Orch’s M.”: Any organiser short of
something to organise should get around
Sydney streets these days and see what
can be done about a Society of Queue-
joiners, a breed now plentiful. Appar-
ently they don’t know exactly what they
want, but a sort of hunting instinct
prompts them to join any queue and take
a chance on whether it’s for cigarettes,
wine, talkies, lottery tickets or fish-an’-
chips. Time and again, in my matutinal
cigarette line. I’ve been prodded in the
ribs by anything from a rigid forefinger
to an umbrella point and turned to find
a human question-mark asking “What’s
this? What’s on?” One stout little feller
had almost got to the kiosk when he
realised that he didn’t smoke. He gave a
happy sort of look around and then said
“Oh, well, you never know. It might
have been something else.” There is a
somewhat different case of one who found
a long queue in Sydney’s Macquarie-place
and joined it. When, after the best part
of 30 minutes, the part containing him
came opposite a certain door he broke
away. He had reached his goal, the
Workers’ Educational Association; the
rest went on to collect tote divs,
* * $ 4!
“Lao-dah”; The announcement that a
five-year-old boy living at'Lihwa, Sin-
kiang Province, China, has been dis-
covered to possess the five signs of the
veritable Buddha, thus proving that he is
a reincarnation of the Panchen Lama of
Tibet, Who died in 1937, recalls one of
the most notable scoops in Australian
journalistic history. In 1939 a four-year-
old boy was announced as the Dalai
Lama after a thorough search for the
soul of the previous incumbent. The
following day an up-and-coming Mel-
bourne journal published his portrait.
He looked exactly like 155,000,000 other
Chinese babies. In view of the fact
that the sacred search is conducted in
the profoundest secrecy to obviate the
Lama department being inundated with
false claimants, as well as getting into
serious conflict with the Chinese Govern-
ment, and that it is made through the
wildest, most mountainous and primitive
areas of Asia ten thousand miles away
from these shores, the securing of the
portrait must be admitted to have been
a very meritorious performance.
* * * *
“S.T.S.”: Can anybody guess who the
Six Proud Walkers were? They appear
in a songbook, now much used in schools,
as an item among a string of numbers
with obviously some religious origin.
Books of reference, and a lot have been
consulted, give no help as to the Six.
Francis Beeding’s thriller used the title
(doubtless borrowed from the song), but
does not explain it in any way. The
phrase in its present form is certainly
-corrupt. London “Notes and Queries”
tackled the whole question, and had
at last to discourage firmly any further
correspondence about it (“£6 waters” was
one wild suggestion).
* * $ *
“Listening Insect”: I agree with
“Tatsreal” (B. 28/4/’43) that concerts,
sacred and otherwise, are spoiled by the
audience’s persistence in clapping when-
ever a pause occurs. Nine-tenths of the
feeling at the average concert is conven-
tional, not aesthetic. A party of people
in Melbourne tried a different method
when the “St. Matthew Passion” was
broadcast from the Town Hall at Easter.
They sat over dinner and talked when
they wanted to and listened when they
wanted to, and the music flowed through
an open door from another room con-
tinuously throughout the evening. At the
conclusion of the concert they all agreed
that they had never liked Bach so much
before and had never noticed that there
were so many beauties in his music.
* * * *
“Lord Luvus”: C. H. Morrow, secre-
tary of the Viticultural Society, has made
the belated announcement that Austra-
lian wines at 225. a dozen are being sold
in Melbourne at Bs. a bottle. This will be
no great shock to wine-drinkers, though
they might be surprised that the profiteers
paid as much as Is. lOd. a bottle, and that
they are content with a mere 336 p.c.
profit. Wine in Australia, not having the
vogue of beer, has always been fair game
for the profiteer, but the blame lies as
much with the public as with the trade. As
a connoisseur put it, there are few wine-
drinkers in Australia, but many wine-
swillers. What most of them value in
wine is its high alcoholic content. A
connoisseur attaches most importance to
color, bouquet, flavor and the like.
• ■ * * »
“Taipo”; Maoriland’s landlord-and-
tenant laws are now subject to a sort of
public interest rider. Tendency of the
new outlook was illustrated in a first
prosecution of its kind in M.L., at Auck-
land, against a flat-owner who withdrew
an offer to let a flat when it was dis-
closed that the prospective tenant (a naval
officer’s wife) had a 13-year-old daughter.
A pie# of guilty was entered, the word-
ing of the Act permitting no modification
or discretion, and a fine of £4 was in-
flicted, with a hint from the Bench that
future offences of the sort might be a lot
more expensive.
* ♦ H* &
“Pawang”; A fact that seems to have
passed unnoticed in the current hurly-
burly is that in the last five years Greater
Melbourne, despite war-time congestion,
house-shortage and increase of popula-
tion, has moved up to first place in the
world’s list as the healthiest place to have
a baby. The average annual number of
infantile deaths per thou-
sand over the last five years
was 35.55, as against 44.74
for the previous five years.
That represents a saving of
730 babies in a total of
84,000 new Australians.
M.L. headed the list in
1938 with 36 per 1000.
* * #
“Zake”: When P. G.
Wodehouse, who fell into
German hands early in the
war, moved to Berlin,
took up his residence at
the luxurious Adlon and
gave some broadcasts,
there was strong resent-
ment throughout the Em-
pire. The sale of Wode-
house books suffered, and
in some libraries they were
banned. Many fair-
minded people, however,
mindful of what.has been
learned of Nazi* methods
of coercion, suspended
judgment. But who can
now tackle Bertie Wooster
and Jeeves with any zest
since it has been disclosed
that, while his wife stays
on, P.G. has had to shift
to a less aristocratic pub
because the Adlon objects
to his Pekinese? His
Pekinese! Sadly I puzzle
on how a fellow who
could tag behind an insect
like a Pekinese could ever
attract a British audience for his writings.
* * * *
“Angellic”: Support for Norman
Angell’s argument that military conquest
does not show a material profit seems to
be given by the estimate of the U.S.A,
Board of Economic Warfare that the loot
obtained by the Nazis and their pals from
Europe up to the end of 1941 was worth
£11,200,000,000 in Australian currency.
That represents £l4O a head of the Ger-
man population of 80,000,000, and is pay-
ment at the rate of £2O a year a head for
seven years of very severe economy on
the part of at least 78,000,000 of the
German people. The reflection is ines-
capable that had all the industry, the
concentration of purpose, the almost re-
ligious fervor that was put into military
preparations been devoted to the social
betterment of the Reich the Herrenvolk
would now be the envy of Europe on the
score of their prosperity and affluence,
and would be in a mood to laugh to scorn
anyone who offered them a prospective
return of 7s, 6d. a week at a cost of
tightening their belts for years and in-
curring the whole world’s hatred. The
Italians, Bulgarians, Rumanians and
Hungarians and other little peoples who
are getting no divvy at all for all their
sacrifices must be falling very much out
of love with military glory.
* * * *
“C. 8.”: Melbourne adults may have
become anaesthetised by use of the blasts of
the A.R.P. siren, but the senses of children
are less spoiled than those of grown-
ups. A child of three was following his
mother, 'whose husband is a warden,
round the garden when he suddenly threw
himself on the path and buried his face
in his arms and went through the actions
appropriate for an air raid. “What’s the
matter, darling?” asked the mother. “The
Japs is coming,” said the infant. The
mother looked skyward, but there were
no signs in the heavens. A bee had
zoomed past on a harmless quest for
honey.


ABORIGINALITIES
“Old-timer”; When the poisoner left
the boss hired a new one through a Ben-
digo agency. He turned out to be a terror
on dirt, which suited us generally. We
didn’t mind having to scrape our boots
and wash before entering the galley; we
didn’t mind his ban on smoking in his
domain ; but when on the Sunday follow-
ing his arrival we became curious as to
the cause of certain effects and he firmly
told us that he held himself responsible
for our health, that men neglected them-
selves in situations such as ours and that
a little remedy in the food or the tea
once a week would do us good, we with-
drew in some amazement, went round the
back of the hut and pondered deeply.
During the next two Saturdays we took
care to be in town or somewhere at tea-
time, in order to dodge our benefactor’s
ministrations. But he changed the time
to Saturday breakfast and gave us a
stronger issue to make up for what we’d
missed. Whereupon, weak but deter-
mined, we seized that cook and heaved
him into the lake and, armed with long
saplings, kept him there until he swore
on the bones of a dead goanna floating
beside him that henceforth we could die
of scurvy, footrot, greasy heels and
housemaid’s knee for all the interest he
would take in our physical condition.
* * * *
“Niloc”: With the aspect of a startled
lobster Harry watched Strawb skim the
lantana on the far side of the paddock,
pound across towards the safety of the
shed and disappear with a protesting flick
of the tail. Putting it down to the
mossies, he again attacked the posthole.
Ten seconds later operations were aban-
doned, for in the wake of Strawb there
came a small brown object heading for
the middle of the paddock. Here it
bolted around in a few circles, jumped up
and down, and skidded to a stop. Harry
wouldn’t have minded if it had been a
multi-headed bunyip—for c.bf. and
damper affect you that way after a few
years—but his hat, no! As the aged
Akubra seemed to be resting more or less
permanently, he approached and, when a
skilfully-wielded crowbar had settled the
headgear, viewed the flattened bunny be-
neath. He has since joined the ranks of
the hat-putters-on-fence-posts, declining
further service jvith those who hang ’em
on the ground, particularly over rabbit-
holes.
* * * *
“C.E.”: Round these East Gippsland
parts the names of the early settlers are
perpetuated in the land they selected, and,
though few remember the pioneers them-
selves, everyone uses their names as local-
ity guides. Old Simpson, for instance, is
farming on Gay’s, while the newcomer
from down country has just bought Mrs.
Todd’s from young Williams, who in-
herited it from Tim Kelly. Though plain
as street numbers to the locals, the cus-
tom puzzled a stranger when he in-
quired the whereabouts of an old cobber.
“Donelly?” was the answer, “Why, sure ;
he’s running sheep out on SpenCer’s, but
shovin’ a few beasts in on old Gran’dad
Sanderson’s, I believe, as a bit of easy
pickin’. Doin’ awright, too, that bloke.
Hear he’s built himself a place on part
of Tomlin’s frontage, and now he’s nego-
tiatin’ f’r Miss Andrew’s.”
♦ ♦ * *
“Eureka”; Water diviners who use the
forked stick are common enough, but I
once met an old chap who reckoned he
could locate underground water with the
aid of a doctor’s stethoscope. He would
wait until there was a still night and then,
getting down on his knees, he would
“sound” the ground, moving a few yards
each time. He reckoned he could hear
the water through it. He was generally
regarded as a harmless crank, but men
who knew him reckoned he achieved as
much success as many of the dowsers.
He also used the stethoscope when shoot-
ing kangaroos—he claimed that, pressed
against the ground, it magnified the
sound of their distant thumping,
“Naturala”; Like “Walden” (B.
7/ 4/ ’43) I have noticed those processional
caterpillars ; though mine were on the
western side of the continent and,
instead of resembling brown plush, were
light-colored, covered all over the top
sides with bristles not Unlike miniature
cat’s whiskers. My notion is that the
procession is composed of individuals fed
full and now heading for some favored
retreat where the process of pupating
might be gone through collectively and
in safety. Once came on a line that had
been broken by a passing cartwheel.
Both sections had stopped dead, the rear
section because it had lost its leadership,
the front because it had lost its tail.
Which seemed to show that the creatures
had some sort of communication, pos-
sibly telepathic. A day later the broken
line was still halted, apparently unable to
“ Don't you know you can't buy anvils now?”
solve the situation. Considerately I closed
the gap, but got no immediate response.
Six hours later it was on the move, had
made quite two feet. At night the pro-
cession curls itself up like a spiral rope
mat, the leader in the centre. In the
morning it unwinds, tail first, and lets the
leader out. I once detached the leader
and put him at the tail; the coil refused
to stir until the leader was returned to
the centre.
♦ * ♦ *
More suggestions for a name for the
Australian cruiser tank:
H.H.: “Burri Dilli” —eye of fire.
W.C.: “Kylie”—the s.-w. W.A. abo.’s
name for the boomerang.
Anon.: “Yarraman” —a horse.
M.T.: “Larrakeyah”—the name of the
first Darwin tribe.
J.D.M.F.: “Waler” —a tribute to our old
cavalry steed.
W.M.H.: “The Ringer”—shearing-shed
lingo for the champion.
* * * *
“J. Summers”: How helpless city house-
wives were when the bakers went on
strike! What a rush for biscuits and
scones! My long-haired mate, born in the
Victorian Mallee, merely reached for a
handful of hops, shredded a couple of
potatoes, boiled hops and spuds for 15
minutes, strained, cooled, then placed the
liquor in a pickle bottle with a handful of
flour. By next morning there was yeast.
With yeast and flour she made bread.
When we were kids the housewife who
couldn’t make bread was regarded as a
poor old thing. Twice a week Mum put
down the dough for the six large loaves
that lasted us three days or so. Some-
times she got brewer’s yeast, which made
the bread better, though it was always
good, solid crusty stuff that built bone
and muscle into that generation of Aus-
tralians ; the generation that battled
through such places as Coolgardie, yet
was still young enough to take a share
in the first German war. Sometimes we
got baker’s bread. It tasted as cham-
pagne does to a bloke confined usually to
a diet of beer. But it didn’t have the
filling capacity of home-made.
* * * *
“Moyhu”; The best fox dog I ever had
was a cross between a kelpie and a cocker
spaniel. He made up for lack of speed
with an uncanny ability to anticipate the
twists and turns of the chase. While the
stags were describing gigantic arcs in
pursuit of their quarry, the mong would
dash off as if he were heading for home.
Minutes later the slavering hounds, still
yards distant from their intended prey,
would inevitably turn in his direction. As
Reynard glided onward, his whole atten-
tion riveted on the loping hounds, the
nondescript, crouching low and wriggling
his rear after the manner of a cat about
to spring, would give a perfect example
of timing as he seized the unsuspecting
victim. He was no mug as a fighter
either, as was proved on several occa-
sions by the manner in which he dealt
with the jealous hounds at the end of
the chase.
* * * «
“Nor’-west”: What I call having
the sense of direction is to be a success-
ful Too-shooter on the endless bush and
plain country of north and nor’-west
W.A. With his gun the shooter leaves
camp early, alone. Kangaroos are not
come by easily. One may walk miles
without sighting a fur—up hill and down
dale; around hills and across flats;
through thickets and along dry creeks.
Several times he may make a complete
drcle of the compass. And at the end
ms crowline from the camp may be a
matter of six or seven miles. From that
point, with or without a bag of skins,
he starts back, not along the route he
followed but direct. Scores of bushmen
can do it, but a few skeletons lying along
the back gullies tell of men who failed.
In the daytime the direction of the sun
helps, but actually it is just a sense, akin
to that of the homing pigeon, the cat
and the dog. Had a mate who could find
his way back to a fireless camp at night
through the thickest bush. More than
once he came out and brought me in.
His youth had been spent in Nottingham,
England ; but he had it.
* * * »
“Ogosh”; For years Mac’s wife had
set the milk overnight to skim the cream,
but at last the dairy inspector persuaded
Mac that a separator could do the job
better and quicker. The inspector super-
vised its installation, and gave Mac a
few pointers on its management. Three
weeks later he came round again to find
Mac quite pleased with the machine.
“Only,” said Mac, “we had a duststorm
yesterd’y. I’ve been wondering if some
dust mightn’t have go into some of those
disc things.” “Weil,” said the inspector,
“that won’t hurt them. It will all come
off in the wash.” It was Mrs. Mac who
spoke up then. “Oh,” she said, “we
haven’t washed it yet. Mac hasn’t been
game to take it to pieces in case he can’t
put it together again!”
* * * *
“No. 1 Bench”; Having handled a few
slabs of Huon pine I quite believe all
recently said about its durability; for it
is loaded with a kind of turpentine resin
that must be both fungus- and borer-
resisting. From the aromatic odors that
used to rise while the flitches were pass-
ing across the saw I often wondered if
any attempt had been made to retort and
distil a hundredweight or so of chips, just
to see what sort of essential oil or other
essence might drip from the spout of the
still. If there is any Huon still left I cer-
tainly advise the experiment. However,
judging from its scarcity on the timber
market this past 20 years I should imagine
that most stands are long since cut out;
butchered, like so much other valuable
and now irreplaceable timber,
to fill otherwise returning-in-ballast
British ships and be sold on the London
market at about one-fiftieth its value. And
it will take a thousand years to regrow
those lost stands of Huon, for when
passed through the planing machine it
showed annular growth lines of such fine-
ness that a tree only a century old must
still have been a sapling.
* * * *
“X.Y.Z.”: I have a few miles of mar-
supial fencing that I must protect from
bushfires; if “8.P.” (B. 31/3/’43) cares
to go round them with me this autumn
he’ll see red-gum leaves lying inches deep.
Nearly all gums in this N.Q. area shed
the previous year’s leaves after new
leaves set. Bushfires have nothing to do
with it.
♦ * * *
“Bughouse”: I sometimes wonder at
the origin of obscene language—-why
particular words should have come to be
regarded as offensive, in certain circles
sinful, and in the eye of the Law punish-
able. And I was surprised when young
to learn that other languages also had
words of obscenity, I remember once
being excited to rapid flight by the be-
havior of a Chinaman. One of my youth-
ful companions, a son of the police-court
interpreter, had tutored me in a string
of to me unknown words, which he in-
duced me to repeat to the hither-
to amiable Celestial. So I dis-
covered that even the Chinaman
knows those awful words of
swearing. A long life has also
taught me that the excessive use
of swearing is invariably the cover
for an inferiority-complex. The
man to be careful with is the
strong but quiet-spoken chap
who at ordinary temperatures
doesn’t let one swear word pass
his lips.
* * *
“Aquifer”; There’s a widely-
held belief that certain types of
timber are an indication of good
underground water. In the Ivan-
hoe (N.S.W.) district drillers
place great reliance on a variety
of Myoporum known locally as
“sandalwood.” As the water is
seldom struck at less than 100 ft.
and often over 200 ft. down it
seems unlikely that it can have
any effect on plant life. North-
west of Bourke there is an area
overlying the artesian basin
where wat r can be obtained at
depths between 20ft. and 30ft.
It’s generally covered with a
hard rock band about 2ft. thick
lying immediately above the
water-bearing strata, but well-
sinkers place great faith in a
species of acacia variously
known as camel bush, kasha or
goondubluie, also a Hakea called
“corkwood.” None of these trees has
any root that would penetrate the soil
to a greater depth than 7ft. Connection
between ground water and timber growth
seems, on the face of it, remote.
* . * * *
“Bogaduck”: I sat under a mulga
somewhere in W.A., waiting for an army
truck. Among the litter of twigs near my
feet I saw the earth crumble, revealing
a hole in the ground about £in. across.
From out of it came a stream of small
white-ants. In frantic haste some of
them grabbed up tiny twigs and carried
them back to the nest, while others stood
on guard around them. For three minutes
there was furious activity, and then a
near-by trail of small black meat-ants
moved into the attack. A dozen of the
clinging little brutes tackled each of the
outpost line of guards. The guards
started to withdraw towards their nest;
the last of the foraging party preceded
them, each dragging his precious chip of
wood with him. Within a few seconds the
white-ants, with the exception of a few
guards pulled down by the meat-ants, had
disappeared down their hole. As I
watched I saw the nest opening sealed
from below by workers.using little pellets
of mud. There, on a couple of square
feet of ground, I had seen a complete
miniature battle with every modem tactic
employed—commando raid, bitter hand-
to-hand fighting, an attempt at encircle-
ment which didn’t come off, a strategic
withdrawal according to plan and a re-
treat to a safe base. Only the air arm
was absent.
* * * *
“Boxer”: Quartpot had a learner’s pen
at the Hartwood shed and surprised the
boundary-rider by putting through 60 the
first day. He explained how: “I leaves
the belly wool on till last and then for-
gets to take it off!”
AN AUTUMN NIGHT.
Upon this lovely autumn night
I pace a balcony
That looks down from a shoreside height
Upon a moonlit sea.
Afar and near, on beach and head,
Before my ’wildered eyes,
A feast, by Beauty set and spread,
In bright abundance lies.
A full moon soaring up the east,
Waves breaking that reveal
Swift silver gleams—did ever feast
Put forth such rare appeal?
So visioning, ’tis mine to find,
Beneath the scene’s control,
Wine for the palate of the mind,
Food for the craving soul.
Like one by witchery possessed,
By wonder held in thrall,
Thus bide I here, a favored guest
In Beauty’s banquet hall.
Naught in the night its peace to mar
The lit sea shoreward swings,
While far from it as stars are far
Seem war’s red happenings.
N.S.W.
RODERIC QUINN.


THE SHARE-OUT.
There's a question you wish to propound:
Why so many people are found
Who, to put it politely.
Don’t reason too brightly —
Well, I know about that,
I can answer it pat,
There aren’t enough brains to go round.
To tell the sad truth I am bound;
Though I know that it doesn’t redound
To humanity’s credit,
I’ve thought it, I’ve said it,
Shouted it loud
Before the whole crowd,
There aren’t enough brains to go round.
However unkind it may sound,
Most of us ought to be drowned;
Nitwits and Babbitts
With foreheads like rabbits,
I say and declare,
I assert and I swear,
There aren’t enough brains to go round.
Even a head that is crowned
On top of a person renowned
May have nothing inside it,
Nothing to guide it,
Not a pea, not a crumb,
Void as a drum;
There aren’t enough brains to go round.
My reasoning’s perfectly sound,
I assure you I’ve very good ground
For saying, declaring,
Asserting and swearing,
Stating without
A shadow of doubt,
There aren’t enough brains to go round.
Here is nothing to shock or astound,
Nothing your feelings to wound;
Though loath to allow it,
And slow to avow it,
We all of us know
It really is so,
There aren’t enough brains to go round.
MAORILAND. ARNOLD WALL.
* * * *
“Bo”: Ted Bingham dismounted and
led his horse across to the fence. “ ’Day,
Ben,” he said as he draped himself over
the top rail; “hear you’ve got that heifer
of yours for sale.” Old Ben Lightfoot
straightened up, put the chipping hoe
against the fence and pulled out his pipe.
“Tes, if I get me price,” he said deliber-
ately as he stoked up. There was silence
until the scraping of the niatch.
“What’re y’ askin’?” Ted said, uncon-
cerned. Ben gazed at the distant hills
for at least a minute, “Aw,” he drawled
at last, “a bit more than you’ll be willin’
to spar up.” Followed another lengthy
pause. “She ain’t worth it! ” volunteered
Ted ; “Betsy could on’y get a second at
the Show.” Ben went on smoking. “Yes,
but she cleaned up everything at Molong,
and the judge there said she might have
a champeen calf. I reckon she got it.”
Another pause. “You won’t come
down?” asked Ted. Ben pulled his to-
bacco out again to re-stoke, “No,” he
said firmly. “If you ain’t prepared to
come up I ain’t prepared to come down.”
Ted unhitched the reins from the crook
of his elbow and mounted. “Well, so
long, Ben,” he said. “Sorry I can’t do
business with y’.” Then, as he rode down
the road he muttered to himself “A hard
man, Ben. A blanky hard man!”
* * * *
“Pat Ater”; That Satanic-looking
marauder of the N.S.W. coastal and
mountain bushland fringes the currawong,
or scrub magpie, has been rightly out-
lawed by gardeners. As a process of
division, his disgorging of a bunch of
hawthorn seeds after a feast is superb.
He gobbles greedily every ripe berry in
sight, and shortly afterwards regurgitates
a perfect ball of little seeds, having re-
tained the fleshy covers. Despite his
swashbuckling, the yellow-eyed thief is
no fighter. Though he often tries bluff on
the kookaburra, that Churchillian bird
fixes him with a jab or two. His cousins
the magpie and the peewee have also got
the currawong’s measure; so has Willie
Wagtail.
* * « *
“Jindivick”: The boys hoisted old
Tom into his sulky and waited for the
“Giddap!” Then they roared as about
15 feet of the decrepit fence surrounding
the pub yard went with him, they hav-
ing passed the sulky shafts through the
fence and reharnessed the moke on the
other side. There was no kick-back
for a week; then one night Tom heard
agonised howls for assistance from the
boys’ hut. He wandered over casually
and watched from the door for a time.
Big Harry was being held down on the
floor by Joe while George was busy
butchering him with a razor blade and
rubbing Condy’s crystals into half a
dozen deep gashes. On the floor along-
side a bunk there was a battered snake.
“I’ll get the buggy ready,” said Tom.
“You’ll need to get him to a quack
quick if you’re goin’ to save his life.”
Harry was hustled into the buggy, and
while the debate was in progress as to
whether he would ride more comfortably
standing up than lying across a seat on
his stomach the outfit headed down the
track at a hand gallop. Watching it out
of sight, old Tom turned back into the
hut, ambled over to the bunk, turned
back the blankets and extracted a big dry
Scqtch thistle which he tossed into the
fire. Then he picked up the body of
the tiger snake and carefully removed a
couple of thin turns of copper wire which
locked its jaws before he made back to
his bed.
♦ ♦ » *
“Mat’s Mate”: The big fellow was
heading down the N.S.W. South Coast
and finding the going a bit tough. Then
he struck a friendly cow-cocky who not
only gave him a hearty tea but allowed
“Cripes, right on my sunburn!”
him to bunk in the hayshed for the night.
Next morning Mat gave a hand with the
cows and was invited to breakfast. After
that he was about to push off when the
cocky said “Don’t go. There’s a job here
for y’.” “What sort of a job?” “Aw,
pokin’ about. A bit o’ milkin’, a bit
o’ ploughin’, you know.” Mat did know,
having tried dairying, and he said “Yair,
but what are y’ payin’?” “Ten bob a
week an’ tucker,” said the cocky firmly.
Mat’s eyes nearly popped out. “Strike
me,” he said, in simulated amazement,
“that’s a big wage, Y’ don’t have t’ pay
that much, y’ know.” “No?” said his
nibs, slightly pleased but more inclined
to wonder. “No,” said Mat; “y’ could
send up to the Government an’ get some
life prisoners f’r nothin’.” After which
he added sundry items concerning the
race of cockies and that particular cocky,
who, for his part, listened unmoved, then
countered with “Aw, I know your sort.
You’re one of them blanky A.W.U. men,”
It silenced Mat —for about three minutes.
“The 0.D.”: *“Essie” (B. 5/5/’43) has
the soldier bird ticked off, all right; his
experience when trying to get within
range of a ’roo has been suffered by hun-
dreds of duck hunters. But when a
“ I only want to see your IDENTITY CARD, lady!"
mickey sends up the alarm I’ve never
known his cobbers to dart for cover,
though everything else does. The rest of
the mfckeys within a mile go flat out for
the tree whence came the alarm and there
all join in a general clamor. They’ll join
in a general attack, too, if a goanna or
Joe Blake is the cause of the' excitement,
which is why they’re called soldiers.
* * * *
“M.U.R.”: You never know about
horses, I had a chestnut which I could
ride or drive anywhere. We’d go through
a town on a Saturday past cyclists, cars,
dogs and people and that moke wouldn’t
bat an eye. Whirlwinds could send sheets
of paper round his legs and fill the land-
scape with bounding empty tanks and
Pompey would trot along sedately. Then
I drove down to the bend one day with
* couple of mates to do some fishing, and
while we were still looking for a good
spot the old Marion came thrashing up
the reach. Pompey shivered from head
to foot, gave one frantic look at the boat
and then headed for the Queensland bor-
der at 1.40 to the mile.
“F.G.”: He’d only been on the ruri
a week but he’d already proved a dabster
at giving advice. One morning old Mac
and Jimmy the Wonder were looking over
a small bunch of two-tooths when “the
jackeroo,” as he was called, climbed the
fence and with a sudden rush and quick
struggle managed to get a headlock on
one of the jumbucks. He opened its
jaws and examined the contents. “Strike
me pink!” he exclaimed, “This fellow
must be old—he’s got no teeth at all in
the top jaw!” Mac looked at him
solemnly. “He used to have full top
and bottom sets once,” he drawled.
“Trouble was they made him a pet up at
the homestead, and the governess used to
get him to lick the kids’ slates. Poor cow
developed chalky teeth an’ did in the lot
except them two in the bottom jaw! ”
* * * *
“Esk D.”; You can’t tell with gums.
When the cocky asked us if we could
strip bark my mate, never modest, ad-
mitted that whole shed roofs almost fell
off the trees for us. We started in on
a patch of peppermints. The first sheet
was narrow; so was the second. We
decided they’d come in handy for cover-
ing cracks. At lunchtime, with the score
at seven sheets and 195 crack-covers,
we walked off the job without bothering
to collect our pay.
♦ <h * *
“Bad Australian”; I have heard the
Scotch hobble referred to at shearing
sheds and mustering camps from Broken
Hill to Burketown, but I have never been
able to ascertain how it is constructed
or how it operates. If “R, Ney” (B.
21/4/’43) possesses this knowledge let
him enlighten the world.
* * * *
The Victorian Railways
Department has been placing nests made
from wire netting at the top of the tele-
phone poles away from the wires. They re
for the maggies which used to build their
nests where the wires connected with the
poles. The new arrangement saves both
the birds and the linesmen a lot of work.
* * * *
“Nipper”: Don’t know about worm
oil (B. 21/4/’43), but soak the bait, what-
ever it is, in aniseed oil and the fish will
fight each other to get to the hook.
* * * *
“Solitude”: Seventyfiver rode down
to the turn-off to pick up the mail, and
on his way back noticed a tobacco
packet lying by the road. Missing no
chance, he climbed down to 'nvestigate,
and discovered that it was almost full.
“The very sort I smoke, too!” he
chortled, giving his nag a gleeful dig in
the ribs as he pocketed his find. A mile
nearer home he ran into Sandy. “Hey! ”
was Sandy’s greeting, “s’pose y’ couldn’t
let a man have a coupla fills? I’m clean
out o’ tobaccer, an’ so’s the flamin’ store.
Can’t buy, beg or borrer a bit in the
district.” “An’ so y’ come cadgin’ off
me, do y’?” nodded Seventyfiver, en-
joying the situation immensely. “Can’t
even keep y’rself in ’baccy, eh?” Sandy
squirmed under the lecture that was de-
livered before the old bloke magnani-
mously presented him with a box cf flake
cut. “Y’ see,” he explained, relating the
incident to me an hour later, “I got
almost a full box o’ me own, so I give
him the one I found. Wonder what poor
cow lorst it!” He slipped his pipe in
his mouth and began slapping pockets.
“Anyway, it’ll teach the blanky idjit t’
be more careful nex’ time, an”
There was a horrified pause, then a
scorching crescendo of oaths. He’d
learned the identity of the “blanky idjit.”
* H= * #
“Betcha”: Smithie was telling me he
didn t know much about sheep when he
selected that chunk alongside the station
boundary, but, wanting to start in with
good stuff, up he went and bought half
a dozen stud rams. He’d had them six
months before he woke up he’d paid top
price for a handful of wrinkled culls that
would have swelled the scrapheap but
for his ignorance. Savagely he chewed
the matter over. Having expressed his
entire satisfaction, it seemed he had no
comeback. Then a notice in the weekly
rag drew his attention, and ‘duly he pre-
sented himself to the station-owner. “By
cripes, them rams y’ sold me’s done well,
boss,” he boasted. “They’re good stuff,
all right. I’m gonna enter ’em in the
big show that’s cornin’ off soon. An’
them rams is a cert.! Fleecem station’s
own topline breed! An’ with that pedi-
gree y’ told me about, an p’raps a men-
tion here an’ there o’ the price—’struth,
it’ll be a great advertisement for y’! ” Yes,
Smithie got a cheque— next day.
* * * *
“Balurga”; Recently I saw the loveliest
of all fishing fleets. Setting, a great
lagoon out from Normanton (N.Q.). The
surface was painted with glorious red
lilies interspersed with fragile white ones,
and the craft were all working along the
one face, sailing in the same direction.
The fleet was absorbed in its task, and
for sheer grace and beauty was unsur-
passable. It consisted of brolgas, jabirus,
pelicans, shags, white cranes, blue cranes,
ducks and geese.
* * * *
“Jemalong Jim”: Dusty Morton, as
dry as a wooden god, fingered the trey-
bit in his trousers pocket, sidled through
the bar door and gazed speculatively at
the scene within. The publican leaned
on the counter studying a newspaper; a
couple of spurred riders yarned before
two full pots. Bung raised an unwelcome
eye, cocked it menacingly at Dusty and
resumed his reading. Dusty eyed the
riders. They ignored him and were just
reaching for their pots when a hullabaloo
of yapping dogs and shrieking women
arosp at the rear. Publican and cus-
tomers promptly rushed out of the bar
and Dusty as promptly rushed in, downed
the two beers and rushed out again. He
reached the corner about the same time
as a yellow mong., hotly pursued by two
cattle-dogs and the pub cook, tore up
the lane. Dusty and the mong. broke
evens to the next corner, where the pur-
suit fell away. There Dusty sat down
and let himself savor the stolen nectar in
his innards. The mong. also sat. Pres-
ently Dusty looked at the hound, then,
getting slowly upright, he said “Dawg,
yT blood’s worth bottlin’.”
“W.O.McQ.”: If “B.4’s” chicken-kill-
ing specimen (B. 21/4/’43) is the biggest
hunting spider, the smallest is the plug-
ugly of the lower marshes. On a hot day
with a long-focus lense you can see him
by the hundred on dead leaves, head and
poison fangs pointing away from his
centre of rotation. He has a jump that
takes him yards. When you see a blow-
fly spin round madly for a few seconds
and stop dead, have a look at his head
through the glass for a mite hanging on.
That’s the spider. A bite from one raises
a lump like a marble and aches for weeks.


For Sheepowners.
Copies are still available of A Hand-
book of Wool-classing and Shed Manage-
ment, J. J. Hardie’s useful contribution to
sheep husbandry. There is also a chap-
ter on shearing-machine experting. Sup-
plies are limited; order from The
Bulletin —3s. 6d. post free.
LYSAOHTTS
4 -
PROOf
100% Australian-made
from Australian Material
Wire Netting
Wire Nails
Our Netting and Other Products are
known throughout the Commonwealth
as ot the highest standard.
LOOK for Our MARKER in
every Roll of Netting .
LYSAGHTS
Fencing Wire
w
-1 O
;r
JO*
FT 1 '
s m
m
-• *
BB
; ;V
*vW
ESTABLISHED 1884
Barbed Wire
Zinc Oxide
QUALITY GUARANTEED.
Obtainable from all the Leading
Merchants. Storekeepers and Agents.
tysaght Bros. & Co. Pty , Ltd.
Head Office: 17-19 Bridge Street, Sydney.
SPECIFY "LYSAGHT'S" WIRE, WIRE NETTING, ETC.
THE MAN ON
THE LAND
"DON'T WORRY, I'M SENDING IT TO
GRAZCOS."
Don’t Put Off Drenching.
“Bungaree”; If you’re to keep sheep
healthy in autumn don’t wait for signs of
worminess before drenching. When sheep
’hre poor, weak or anaemic, repeated
drenchings are needed to get rid of the
parasites, and plenty of first-class feed is
necessary to build up lost condition.
Often it comes to hand-feeding, and that
takes more labor than a dozen drench-
ings.
Some graziers have dodged drenching
this year, and the results are apparent,
particularly among young sheep. In
some N.S.W. districts there have been
record losses of weaners from black
scour worm, a parasite so small that it is
almost invisible even in numbers large
enough to kill a sheep. Because of the
difficulty of identifying it the blame is
usually put on lungworm, and time and
money are wasted in the tricky business
of injecting a lungworm specific when a
dose of bluestone would do 10 times
more good.
Drenching alone will not give perma-
nent results. If a paddock is already
infested with worm eggs and drenched
sheep are put back into it there’ll only
be a slight respite. If the sheep are
healthy and in good condition drench all
two-tooths and under with bluestone-
nicotine immediately, then turn them
into a paddock that has had no sheep in
it for at least a month. Where sheep
are showing worms remember that in
autumn the two worms most dangerous
to young sheep are the black scour and
the nodule. If it’s not a nodule district
use bluestone-nicotine on all young
sheep and put them into a spelled pad-
dock. Ten days later draft the tail off
the mob. Give the main mob another
dose of bluestone-nicotine and drench
the tail with phenothiazine. Keep this
lot under observation.
All drenched sheep must be well fed.
If possible, graze on lucerne or oats to
build up before winter sets in. Continue
drenching and changing paddocks until
sheep are right again. Get the stock in-
spector to have a look at them when-
ever he can.
Older sheep may be carrying large
stomach and other worms. Identify the
worms and use drenches recommended
by the stock inspector, or choose the
most suitable from this list: —
Carb. tet., double strength: For large
stomach worm and liver fluke. Single strength
is useful, but not so effective.
Bluestone: Large stomach worm (fairly
effective); use at C.S.I.R. strengths.
Bluestone arsenic: Large stomach worm
(fairly effective).
Bluestone nicotine: Large stomach worm,
black scour worm, tapeworms (very effective
in all but a proportion of cases).
Phenothiazine: Large stomach, black scour,
nodule and bowel worms; also thin-necked
intestinal worm (highly effective).
Worm eggs wifi not hatch out in cold,
dry weather, so early winter is the ideal
time to clean up the flock. If ewes are
drenched just before lambing it will give
the lambs a better start. One of the best
forms of insurance is to drench all
lambs at weaning with bluestone-nicotine.
“Hux”; Most losses of Iambs in winter
come from lack of care. Paddocks for
weaning lambs can be cleaned up by
cattle at least three months in advance.
Six weeks before weaning, give the pas-
tures a chance to develop by moving the
cattle off. Put them back for a day or
two a week before the lambs are moved
in, and millions of worms will be
destroyed.
When pastures get patchy replace the
cattle from time to time to keep them
even. Lambs that develop a habit of
loitering in one spot and cropping the
grass too short will begin to slip back.
Move them to other paddocks.
Drench lambs after weaning and before
they’re put into the paddocks. At the
same time, draft off the less thrifty and
place them on their own. If the drench-
ing and the sorting out are done every
four weeks, the strong lambs are kept
healthy and the weak ones given a chance
to build up.
Rice Growing.
“Jindivick”: A 5000-acre State rice
farm is to be established on the Wakool
(N.S.W.) irrigation area. At present a
record rice crop is awaiting harvesting
on the Murrumbidgee area, where “at
“ It's great to be home after that there desert .”
least 60,000 tons of ‘paddy’ ” is standing
on 34,500 acres, the problem facing
growers being to get the necessary labor
for the harvest. There’s talk about Land
Army girls, but those who know the game
will doubt their capacity for the task.
Rice paddocks are muddy and sticky
and conditions underfoot a severe handi-
cap apart from the weight of the bags
and the physical strength necessary to
handle the crop.
It is to be hoped that practical farmers
will get a say in the Wakool project—•
men with experience of M.I.A. rice-
growing.
To avoid permanent injury to the soil
rice crops' should be taken from the same
area only once in three years. Large
areas need far more attention and care
than the average farmer is able to give
them if weed growth and waterlogging
of the land are to be avoided. Under
existing regulations all preparational
work, such as grading, making check
banks, etc., is subject to supervision of
the Water Conservation and Irrigation
Commission, early experience having
shown that lack of control led to disaster.
The M.I.A. areas have been limited to
80 or 100 acres a man. Yet, according
to Minister Dunn, only 50 men will be
necessary for the Wakool “collective”
farm of 5000 acres.
Most farmers • have a helper in the
planting of rice. Much preliminary work
is necessary, and not infrequently it is
necessary to re-sow part or whole of a
crop. Generally speaking, seeding has
to be crammed into a very brief time in
late spring, but early enough to enable
the crop to develop and ripen before the
end of the season, a time cycle of six
months. It is doubtful if one man to 100
acres is sufficient to cope with these con-
ditions, and any failure to cope with them
means crop failure.
And what is to happen to the land not
under rice, which may carry sheep or
other crops? Once land has grown rice
its fertility must be restored by judicious
working and planting of cereals to coun-
teract the effects of a five-months inunda-
tion, weeds and the generally debilitating
effects of a heavy harvest. This business
takes up all the spare time of the grower.
If the Wakool enterprise envisages a
genuine attempt at economic farming it
is hard to understand how any spare
time will be available for Mr. Dunn’s
“road work” in the “off season.”
Based on methods and practices now
in use, the minimum area for the yield
required would be 15,000 acres, 10,000
constantly devoted to wheat, lucerne,
oats, barley and fat lambs. Fifty men
are going to have a busy time on that
little lot.
Oats.
“B.”; No other cereal is so well
balanced in nutrients or so high in
mineral content. Also, there’s a fair per-
centage of calcium and phosphates, all
body-builders.
All stock like oats. They make the
safest grain for horses, since the bulky
hulls form a loose mass in the stomach
and are easily digested. Start foals on
them as soon as they begin to nibble.
Feed them ground or crushed, 21b. to
31b. a day the first year and 41b. to 51b.
the second year, with good pasture added.
Greedy feeders, old or sick horses or
animals with poor teeth chew the crushed
product better. Mixing with bran im-
proves the ration and reduces tendency
to choking.
A good mixture for the working
draught is 91b. oats, 181 b. wheaten chaff
and 31b. bran (or 41b. to 51b. of lucerne
chaff). For light working horses reduce
the ration to 91b. oats, 111 b. wheaten chaff
and lib. bran. At the night feed an extra
31b. to 51b. of hay should be fed to
draught and light horses. When oaten
hay is used reduce the grain issue. Florses
in military camps can take 61b. oats.
13Tb. oaten chaff, 31b. lucerne chaff, 21b.
bran and loz. salt. In this ration lucerne
chaff makes up for grazing shortages.
Cows prefer oats crushed. Provided
there is good grazing, a well-balanced
ration is crushed oats, 101 b. chaff,
2\\h. bran, 11b. pollard and lib. linseed
Keep piglets off oats, which may cause
digestive troubles. Once they reach 801 b.
liveweight they can have ’em. As the
grain is high in carbohydrates, it must be
fed with a protein supplement either
skim-milk or meatmeal. Whole oats
ground into a meal is the recognised food
for fattening poultry.
Oaten chaff contains more protein and
fat, is sweeter, more palatable and has
less fibre than other cereal chaffs. Even
good oaten straw has a considerable
amount of nutriment. In drought-stricken
areas it can be dampened with molasses
and water and fed to stock. All animals,
pigs excepted, thrive on oaten silage.
Hints for the Farm.
“H.C.”: Linseed bran has an oil con-
tent almost double that of linseed meal
and 10 p.c. higher than in ordinary bran.
Protein and carbohydrates are increased
by 4 p.c. The extra oil doesn’t act as
a laxative but is absorbed into the sys-
tem. It increases milk- and butter-pro-
duction and improves condition. Feed
about 51b. to each animal in the bail. A
handful of salt improves it, and if a
mineral phosphate’s needed add an equal
part of bone flour. Mixed with milk, it s
good for calves. Add it to the chaff of
draught horses for a better balanced
ration. With skim-milk or other meals
it’s satisfactory pig-feed.
“Sarina”: For an anti-tick dip, a mix-
ture containing 61b. of arsenic per 400
gallons of water will prove satisfactory.
Place the arsenic and 21b. of caustic soda
in a vessel and add water very slowly,
stirring well. The water will bubble and
boil freely as a result of chemical action,
and the arsenic will quickly be dissolved.
Then add up to 400 gallons of water.
When using caustic keep it in a tin with
a tight-fitting lid. Under Queensland
law it’s 81b. of arsenic to 400 gallons of
water for cattle going to clean country.
“Myrrhee”: Dress ringworms in
animals with tincture of iodine or other
alcoholic preparations. Repeat dressings
at intervals. In bad cases wash skin with
a warm soapy solution of 2oz. washing
soda in a pint of water. Soften scabs
with oil. Isolate sufferers and disinfect
pens, rugs and brushes.
QUESTIONS ANSWERED.
{Transferred from Service Departments
(1) What type of soil suits onions best? (2)
General information on onion-seed production ?
(1) They do well in a friable sandy loam
with high humus content: good results are also
obtained on black and red volcanic soils. They
dislike acid soils, and heavy clay soils are not
suitable for onions grown under irrigation.
Sandy soils are suitable for early crops in coastal
areas if rainfall is assured and sufficient fer-
tiliser is used. Good drainage is essential. A
plentiful and even supply of water is required
until near maturity. Dry conditions are de-
sirable during the later stages of maturation.
(2) Select bulbs of good varietal type at
harvest and store over summer in a cool,
well-ventilated room. Smaller bulbs to
2in. in diameter) produce less stalk and
plumper seed. In March or April plant the
bulbs 18in. apart in furrows 4in. deep, and
about 33in. apart. Cover with 2in. of soil.
Seed should be harvested by removing the
heads with about 6in. of stalk when central
seed cases show a yellow straw color and begin
to open. The heads are then spread out on
canvas and allowed to dry in the sun. After
threshing with a flail, the seeds and chaff are
placed in water, when the chaff and poor-
quality seeds rise to the surface and are
skimmed off. The water is then poured off and
the remaining seeds spread out in a thin layer
to dry. Under suitable conditions a yield of
1001 b. to 2001 b. of seed per acre may be
obtained.


Australian, Mercantile, Land & Finance
Company, Limited
(INCORPORATED IN ENGLAND IN 1863)
WOOL, FAT STOCK, STORE AND STUD STOCK,
PRODUCE AND PROPERTY SALESMEN
General Manager for Australia: R. SINCLAIR SMITH.
ADVANCES MADE ON GRAZING PROPERTIES, ON STOCK, AND ON
CONSIGNMENTS OF WOOL, SKINS, HIDES, TALLOW, ETC.
LICENSED AUCTIONEERS, STOCK AND STATION AGENTS.
SYDNEY OFFICE: A. M. MURDOCH, Manager.
ALSO AT MELBOURNE, BRISBANE, NEWCASTLE, WAGOA, HENTY, HAY, MOREE,
TOWNSVILLE, CHARLEVILLE, BUENOS AIRES, LONDON.
GENERAL AGENTS IN NEW SOUTH WALES FOR NORTHERN ASSURANCE CO. LTD
i
g
but civilian requirements of
Australian-made Radiotrons have not
been neglected. Most widely used types
are available, but if the particular valve
you want is not obtainable, consult your
Radiotron dealer regarding an alternative
type.
RADIOTRON
THE WORLD'S STANDARD RADIO VALVE
AMALGAMATED WIRELESS VALVE CO. PTY. LTD.
LOOK HOW IT’S GROWING!
W' | g
'
m
mm
m
mmm
P
&
I
■: : ' K
i
H
: : : x : ::
jgsssSS&n&N*
Sponsored by the Precision Steel Tube
industry of England, B.T.M. has in 4 years
grown to be a major industry, and a key
factory in our War Effort. B.T.M. has
justified the faith of free British enter-
prise in Australia’s progressiveness.
f c
A U
y s
BRITISH lUBE WILLS
(A U S T.) PTY. LTD.
R* NC.
TI1J
r u y
WAR,
SAVINGS
CERTIFICATES
UNCABLED ADDITIONS
J. Bull Pays.
(From an “American” article by Lord Halifax.)
Two years before the United States
was plunged into the war the British Gov-
ernment was pouring millions of cash
dollars into American industry —to the
makers of aircraft, aircraft engines
and propellers, ordnance, ammunition,
machine tools, motor vehicles and ships.
The total thus spent since September,
1939, has been $3,200,000,000. Most of this
considerable sum went for purchases, but
fully $200,000,000 was spent outright to
expand factories and build new ones —
the very factories which today are leading
producers of America’s Arsenal of
Democracy,
The British and French discovered
that, while American capacity for con-
structing airplane frames was fairly
adequate to meet the increased needs,
there was hardly any airplane engine and
propeller industry at all. The British
began furnishing the money for plant ex-
pansion and construction, and a total of
$89,000,000 has- gone into capital assist-
ance. Six famous American corporations
received the bulk of this assistance.
Altogether, British expenditures with
the American aircraft industry total some
$1,750,000,000. This meant that America
had an airplane industry built up and
operating when she realised her peril—
an industry that would have taken a
much longer time to build up had it not
been for Britain’s earlier assistance.
The United Nations today have the
finest tank in the world —the 28-ton
General Sherman. It is the custom in
both armies to think of this General
Sherman as an American product, and
so in one sense it is, but in another it is
a joint Anglo-American enterprise.
British money was being spent to rebuild
American factories and equip them with
new tools. Out of this surge of effort
came the General Grant tank, which
proved adequate to hold the Germans in
North Africa in 1940. But still it was
not good enough. In the ensuing weeks,
nationalities were forgotten. Americans,
Englishmen, Canadians, Scotsmen worked
side by side, designing, testing, discard-
ing. American money'and British money
went over the same counters. And out
of this came the new General Sherman,
which was a potent factor in the British
Eighth Army’s brilliant victory over
Rommel’s vaunted Afrikakorps.
Long before the United States began
its armament programme Great Britain
launched a programme of “float orders”
in the American factories, the effect of
which was to form a pool of standard
machine tools from which both British
and American firms could draw. The
output of machine tools in America is ex-
pected to reach $1,500,000,000 next year.
That is six times the productive capacity
of the industry before 1939, a growth
which could Hardly have been achieved
without initial British impetus.
Some people would be surprised to
learn that the Liberty Ship being turned
out in the United States today is basically
of British design, and that two of the
shipyards now achieving production
miracles Were built with British money.
In September, 1940, the British Mer-
chant Shipbuilding Mission came to the
United States to place orders for 60 cargo
vessels. They could find no shipyard or
group of shipyards capable of building
them rapidly. They decided, therefore,
to build the yards. Sites were purchased
at Richmond, Calif., and Portland, Ore.
Two brand-new American companies
were formed to build the yards and the
ships. One of these, the Todd-California
Shipbuilding Corporation, at Richmond,
had for its president Henry Kaiser, who
until that moment had never built a ship.
It is hardly necessary to speak of Mr.
Kaiser’s exploits. He built the shipyard
and 30 ships in approximately 18 months.
The entire project cost the British
$125,000,000.
Although they are now being made on
an all-American programme, the Liberty
Ships remain British in basic design and
dimensions. It is the design the British
Mission brought to America in 1940,
although the ship now burns oil instead
of coal and the crew’s quarters are
grouped about the funnel instead of being
fore and aft, as is the British system. It
was this design, added to the shipyards
and experience paid for with British cash,
which has helped to make possible the
American shipbuilding speed records
which today are the marvel of the mari-
time world.
Uncle Sam Delivers.
(From an “American ” article by Don Eddy.)
Thousands of American workers, in a
superhuman production drive that lasted
nine days and nights, helped to save
Egypt and to pave the way for the in-
vasion of North Africa.
It is a miracle of industry. First,
because never before has so great
a quantity of guns and tanks been
delivered in so short a time. And,
second, because none of the workers
in the man-killing drive really knew
the real purpose of their labor; they
worked on faith.
Until now, this story has been one of
the closely-guaraed secrets of the war.
No one but Roosevelt, Churchill and a
handful of war leaders knew all the de-
tails. Although hundreds of American
factories, railroads, trucking firms and
steamship companies were engaged, few
persons guessed the real reason for those
nine hectic days and nights. They only
knew that an Allied army, somewhere in
the world, was in dire peril and needed
all they could give. That was enough,
Men worked 10, 12, even 24 hours a day
to turn out the tanks, guns and ’planes.
When Churchill visited the White
House last May, he confided to Presi-
dent Roosevelt that the British 75mm.
cannon was no match for the German
88’ s
The problem was referred to Major-
General Levin H. Campbell, jun„ Chief
of Ordnance, and to engineers of the War
Department’s Tank-Automotive Centre,
Secretly they evolved a new gun, a tank-
killer known as the M-7, which was a
„„ i
105 mm. howitzer installed on an M-3
tank chassis. This juggernaut could travel
35 miles an hour, smash targets seven
milpc nwnv
inues away.
By mid-June production of the M-7
had begun and a few were being tried in
secret manoeuvres, when a 1 at once, cala-
mity struck m Libya. It lef t tta» gate to
Suez guarded by little more than a skele-
ton force The Berlin Radio jubilantly
announced the imminent fa of Cairo,
The fate of the Allies hung in the balance.
That was the situation on the last
Fnday of June. That night the air over
the Atlantic crackled with cipher mes-
sages between London and Washington.
Only a miracle could save Egypt.
A miracle? Well, there were men in
Washington, all through that tense night,
who thought a miracle might be worked.
In the last hours before dawn a plan was
born. The British called it “Emergency
Order ZZ.” General Somervell’s Services
of Supply called it R-7.
By whatever name, it called for the
greatest burst of speed in the history of
war-time industry. Back-breaking speed,
Within nine days a monumental quantity
of mechanised equipment had to be con-
structed, assembled and laid on the docks
at an eastern port. Ships had to be wait-
ing and naval escorts. They had to get
the shipment to Cairo before Rommel
moved in for the kill,
American industry, which means mau-
agement and labor, had to be persuaded
to forget about wages and hours, about
holidays and overtime. They had to
forget their wives and children and miss
a , e Y mea s had to do i
blindly not knowing what it was all
fj 3ol !*’ r . whole scheme must
ai^ e ted m the ut ”l ost seciecy-
could be told what they had to do, but
not w W-
-0° Saturday morning code messages
flashed out of Washington to hundreds
of key factories, ordnance depots, army
posts, tank plants, arsenals, military air-
ports. Almost every State in the Union
was § ,ven a specific job to do.
For example, one of these crisp mes-
sages reached the manager of an Army
depot in the Middle Central States. Two
ear ,! ie , r > had l rn^ ged i 0
me f a hohday on the Fourth of July,
f. nd "°‘‘ ce t s that e f ec ‘ had , baen P?
throughout the plant. Now he ordered
he h s ! , n ,°u
u s 1 u e . ’
A serious National Defence emergency
exists. It is necessary for every possible
piece of fighting equipment to be shipped
quickly and we must support our fighting
men by working through July 4, Sunday,
July 5, and Monday, July 6.
j fe a matter o£ record (ha£ not a
j , asked t 0 be exdlsed . Ten-
h “ shifts were introduced> and got
, as £he d wore on
P . f J pxritpmpn , prpw a „ the
So‘me
men never went home at all. Machines
never stoppei j, wem 0 „ like that £or
a wee h anc } a half — anc j the assignment
was fj n j s h ec i a f ew m inutes ahead of
sc hedule. When the fantastic increases
j n ou ip U t were broadcast over the loud-
speakers, red-eyed and unshaven work-
men whooped and pounded one another
on the back.
Another batch of those messages
reached airports sprinkled from Seattle
to New Orleans, and ground crews began
grooming heavy transport ’planes for a
long journey. Hours later a great air
fleef was converging on a coastal airport,
towards which express trains and smaller
’planes were rushing spare motors, gun
parts, ammunition and other vital items
that could be air-bome. The rendezvous


Ruwolt
The first 25-Pdr. Gun Howitzer made in Australia.
Ruwo!t’s are Major Co-ordinating Contractors for Victoria,
who, together with many Sub-contractors, are producing
these Guns.
In common with many good Australians we are now mainly
engaged on munition work.
Although so engaged we are also able to execute much of
the important requirements for the essential metal, paper
and rubber industries, hydraulic presses, crushing plants, etc.
Then, when Australia has successfully overcome its present
difficulties, we will again be in a position to immediately
attend to all your requirements, similarly to what we have
done in the past.
CHARLES RUWOLT PTY. LTD.
530 Victoria Street, Richmond, E.l
Victoria, AUSTRALIA.
VICKERS
.
VICKERS
VICKERS
VICKERS
VICKERS
VICKERS
VICKERS
VICKERS
VICKERS
• |
VICKERS
VICKERS
VICKERS
'' 1
life " $
W&- - .
s*
f ; : 00:0 Off 0 Of":f;f:0,f.;,.
. . -,;
m
■
'WB&ZZZSSsSBm
mmmmrn
O'ovoo
iSHiSS
' I*
* •■
m * *» ''mm
tm
:, . ::■
• : 0
ss®?
:.:0.:.O Of Oj : }.f: :.0¥:S:K yISgiSsgggSgW
?j:;i;g: g: o : OOf SfOfOfff.f ’ O;oioOOOfooO.
*:-.*. • .• . • ■;•>.•.• . . •>;•;• '5x$®S8Som
« vx t 41
.Off ,0 : 0 Of fOf'O OS
0 .
ill
O;: ; :0::. : ff - f 0 , :0f: : ff.fO.: f; Of Of |: 0 Off:0ffOf 0loSSS
W • : ' :
£-/ '<%. "*1
0'Of OS'Of t oSo Of 00:
"osoSo"'
:
o 0, 11
- v mm&Wmss&m
mm
m
■'
:s%:
. Of 0;1 ff fffOOOoSSOf':;
was kept, the cargoes transferred to the
big ’planes; and 51 hours after the take-
off the mighty ships roared down on the
British Army field at Cairo. On the log-
books the flight was described as
“routine,” yet some of the pilots who
made the trip had never before flown the
Atlantic,
Production crept up and up—doubled,
trebled and kept climbing.
On the third night a trainload of M-4
medium tanks and M-7’s, those big
motorised howitzers, was roaring up
from an area where the vehicles had been
pulled out of the field in the middle of
an army manoeuvre. The train was due
almost the same time as a crack flier,
There was only one track, and both trains
couldn t use it, so it was the highfalutin
passenger train that went on to the side-
track to let the fast freight flash by.
The last of six ships loaded at the dock
in the grey dawn. Those ships had been
pulled out of ports all up and down the
Atlantic seaboard, hand-picked for speed
and capacity. Even the stevedores had
gol the fever of accomplishment, as
shown by the log of loading operations:
“Sixth day, rate of loading, 80 tons an
hour... .Eighth day, rate of loading, 258
tons an hour ”
The ships went out to sea some time
in the night. One of them had the largest
and most precious load of tanks and big
i , . ~ , D
howitzers, so they put her in the centre
of the convoy. But they could not pro-
tect her from spies ashore.
Three days out she was torpedoed.
No other ship m the flotilla was attacked.
She was lost, but a destroyer picked up
her crew and hurried them back to port.
Once more toe log of Emergency Order
ZZ was opened. Once more, men worked
like demons to replace the lost cargo.
Once more, proud passenger trains took
to the sidetracks as super-schedule freights
went by. Another ship was rushed to the
port. In addition to the tanks and how-
itzers, she carried steam locomotives and
tenders
t, ‘, . .
Everything now depended on the sub-
stitute vessel. She had to travel without
escort. She had to be pushed to the limit.
If anything happened to her, the destiny
of the world might be changed. But no-
thing happened. Travelling at top speed,
she caught the convoy and continued on
to Cairo.
And, as everyone knows, the British
Eighth Army chased Rommel clear out
of the country. The papers were full of
it. But not until this moment has the
inside story been told.
There were pleasant aftermaths, of
course. British Field-Marshal Sir John
G. Dill wrote a fine letter to General
Somervell, and General Somervell wrote
a fine letter to Sir John. Colonfels wrote
fine letters to majors, and majors wrote
fine letters to captains. It was all quite
scrumptious.
While I was putting the pieces of the
story together, I said one day to Jack
Stevens, standing wide and low to the
ground beside a switch engine, his lantern
hooked over his arm, “That was cer-
tainly a wonderful job you fellows did.”
Stevens looked at me askance to see
if I was kidding, and shifted his lantern
to the other arm. “Nuts,” he said. “It
was nothin’.”
Turkey’s Position.
(From an article by Manchester “Guardian’s"
special correspondent at Ankara.)
A survey of the problems facing
Turkey is sufficient to explain the reasons
which in the past very nearly brought her
to the verge of war and may crop up in
the future. Thus:
1. As a Balkan country and member of
the Balkan Entente Turkey was and is
directly interested in what happens in that
peninsula.
2. She is a member of the Eastern
(Saadabad) Pact—recently prolonged for
five years—and therefore she is concerned
directly with everything affecting Iran
(Persia), Iraq and Afghanistan, and in-
directly with the fate of the Arab countries.
3. She possesses an extensive coastline
in the Mediterranean, and consequently the
safety and mastery of the eastern part of
that sea cannot leave her indifferent.
4. The same applies to her as regards the
Black Sea.
(5) Turkey is entrusted with the guardian-
ship of the Straits under the Montreux Con-
vention and she is committed to maintain
the freedom and security of that great
waterway.
6. Turkish territory lies on the historical
route followed by all those who since the
days of Alexander the Great have sprung
from Europe for the conquest of Asia.
7. Inversely that same route has been
trodden by Asiatic warriors who invaded
Europe, like Xerxes in classical times and
more recently the Ottoman Sultans, and
who might inspire imitators in our times.
This shows clearly how at some time
or other during the last three years Ger-
man military or political action has very
nearly involved Turkey in the war. Those
who believe that even now Turkey may
be implicated in the war base their belief
on the fifth or seventh of the contingen-
cies mentioned—namely, that she may be
attacked by Germany in order to prevent
either the passage through the straits of
Allied supply ships going to Russia or
the use of Turkish territory by the Allies
for invasion of the Balkans, Echoes
from Berlin bear testimony that both
those possibilities are hovering in Ger-
man minds.
However, all this speculation about her
future prospects leaves Turkey unmoved.
Through her most authorised statesmen
she has never ceased to reiterate hei firm
determination to continue to remain
neutral, and in order to prove her good
faith towards both sides she has been
striving to keep a fair balance between
them by trading with both and by signing
various, if somewhat involved, economic
agreements.
Turkish political quarters are of
opinion that they have thus furnished
sufficient evidence of their peaceful in-
tentions which should allay all apprehen-
sions of Turkey’s letting herself be
dragged into war; moreover, those same
quarters think that Germany possesses at
present neither the freedom of initiative
nor the resources required for a preven-
tive war against Turkey which would
result in adding at least 1,000,000 first-
rate soldiers to the number of her
enemies.
Dragnet Digest.
(Condensed from various acknowledged
sources.)
“The American Congress is rather sensitive.
It is generous and big-hearted as long as it
feels that it is helping someone. But give it
the idea it is not helping, and it might be a
different story.”— U.S. Ambassador to Russia
Admiral Standley, when protesting in Moscow
that Russians were not being told of American
help.
* * * *
Captain “Eddie” Rickenbacker is as great
an American fighter for his political principles
as he is in the air or at sea. He has earned
the hatred of the Communists. A greater
honor cannot come to any American. —
Benjamin DeCasseres; N.Y. “Journal-Ameri-
can.”
* * * *
Japan is permitting lend-lease shipments
from the United States for use against her
Axis partner, Germany, to move in Russian
ships unmolested across the Pacific and past
her backdoor into Siberia. The cargoes are
moved in Russian ships and, one authority
said, thus far have been limited largely to
food. The size of the shipments, it was stated,
is restricted only by the number of Russian
ships available. Officials confirmed that the ship-
ments were moving across the Pacific with the
full knowledge of Japan. This, it was empha-
sised, is due to Japan’s desire to do nothing
which would infringe on her treaty of non-
aggression with Russia. Washington corre-
spondent, N.Y. “Herald Tribune.”
* * * *
Lend-lease helps pave the way for post-war
markets for American goods, businessmen feel.
It’s the best advertising we can have, they say.
Even if the Russian Government doesn t
spread the word about our aid (Admiral
Staa dley’s complaint) Russian fliers know
they’re flying American planes ; ground fighters
know they’re using American tanks; farmers
there are thankful for “made in America '
tractors; civilians note American names on
clothmg they buy ~ Wall ' street JournaL
_ * J ,* . *. * .• „
Thousands of blind men formerly working
on expensive baskets are now working on
British Government orders in their own work-
shops and homes. The last year has seen a
development even more remarkable—the intro-
duction of the totally blind into the war
We reject the notion common to all
totalitarian systems, whether Communist,
Fascist or Nazi, that the State is the
supreme monopolistic super-entity, the
sole source of authority and morality.
The omnipotent State lacks the moral
elements inherent in the individual. It not
only devours its own creators ,■ but it be-
comes a force for evil, both inside and
outside of its own boundaries. The unit
of existence is a natural human being and
his or her natural extension is the family,
not the artificial personality of the State.
Certain essential services must be or-
ganised and guaranteed by the State; but
it is not the true function of government
to manage private life. Bureaucratic con-
trol is invariably accompanied by lack of
flexibility and initiative and by waste of
time and public money. It inevitably fails
of the very object for which it is sup-
posed to exist — efficiency.—From a
manifesto put out by a British group
including Ernest Benn, Dean Inge and
St. John Ervine.
factories, where already 850 are employed, side
by side with the sighted, on the production of
aeroplanes, tanks, and small-arms. They are
good at testing and the detection of faults, for
they have exceptional sensitivity of fingers
and power of concentration. Manchester
“Guardian.”
* * * *
Soldier guards said that they asked Rudolph
Hess, soon after he parachuted to earth in
Scotland on May 10, 1941, if he would like to
return to Germany and Hess shouted; “No,
no, no, no! ” This and other details of Hess’s
flight to Britain are told for the first time in
Roof Over Britain, the official story of Britain’s
anti-aircraft defences. Hess’s ’plane, a Messer-
schmitt 110, was sighted circling over a search-
light post several miles from Glasgow. The
pilot (Hess) switched off the engine and made
a shallow dive straight at the post. The men
on the ground believed at first they were being
dive-bombed, but then saw a parachute stream
out. The ’plane crashed 250 yards away and
burst into flames. Two anti-aircraft signal-
men found the parachutist with an injured
ankle, sitting in an armchair, in a farmer’s
house. He extended his hands to show they
were empty and said: “Ah, British soldiers—
no guns, no bombs.” He first told them his
name was Alfred Horn. After a pause he
added; “I have a very important message for
the Duke of Hamilton.” He said he had met
the Duke at the Olympic Games in Berlin.
[This has been denied by the Duke].
Asked if he had ever been to England before,
the former Deputy Fiihrer said “No,” and
then came his shouted reply disavowing any
wish to return to Germany. Hess seemed to
want to be friendly, the soldiers said, and
showed them pictures of his wife and son, with
whom he said he had spent the morning. He
was wearing a fleece-lined flying suit. He car-
ried a camera around his neck and had a
roughly plotted map strapped to his knee. —
London correspondent, N.Y. “Sun.”


Personal and Missing Friends.
WILLIAM FREDERICK BENNETT, formerly
of Budgerum, in Victoria, Farmer. Son of
WILLIAM and MARGARET MADELINE
BENNETT. Would the abovenamed (who is
entitled to share in the estate of his mother,
the abovenamed Margaret Madeline Bennett,
now deceased, if he makes claim thereunder
prior to the Third day of August, 1943), or
anyone knowing his whereabouts, please com-
municate with MESSRS. CLARKE & GAVAN
DUFFY, Solicitors, of 52 Lydiard Street, Bal-
larat, Victoria?
TO ALEXANDER DOUGLAS CLELAND
formerly of Royal Avenue Glen Huntly in the
State of Victoria but now of parts unknown
Breadcarter—TAKE NOTICE that your wife
DORIS ALEXANDRA CLELAND has insti-
tuted proceedings against you for a dissolution
of marriage on the ground of desertion
UNLESS you enter an Appearance in the Office
of the Prothonotary of the Supreme Court
Melbourne on or before the Twenty-sixth day
of May 1943 the case may procee’d in your
absence and you may be ordered to pay costs
AND FURTHER if you intend to defend the
said suit you must cause an Answer to be
filed in the said Office on or before the Fifth
day of June 1943.—This advertisement is inserted
by C. M. S. POWER, of 283 Queen Street,
Melbourne, Public Solicitor for Victoria, Soli-
citor for the Petitioner.
TO FREDERICK JOHN MARTIN also called
FRANK JOHN MARTIN formerly of North-
cote Avenue Caulfield in the State of Victoria
but now of parts unknown Concrete Worker. —
TAKE NOTICE that your wife HAZEL EDNA
MAVIS MARTIN has instituted proceedings
against you for a dissolution of marriage on
the ground of desertion UNLESS you enter
an Appearance in the Office of the Prothonotary
of the Supreme Court Melbourne on or before
the Twenty-sixth day of May 1943 the case
may proceed in your absence and you may be
ordered to pay costs AND FURTHER if you
intend to defend the said suit you must cause
an Answer to be filed in the said Office on or
before the Fifth day of June 1943. —This adver-
tisement is inserted by C. M. S. POWER, of
283 Queen Street, Melbourne, Public Solicitor
for Victoria, Solicitor for the Petitioner.
’ ' ‘ ' w- *■*
«. «
iS*:^:SSslMSsjj:^S¥
r"'
ic** • ■*
.> *$ „ / »
' • -v/>»i'
;,. .
¥*>\.** $ * * i i
»- ; »
'M
9s&
■.■.'■■<■■
m
*£. •
©
•■■: r.: : :‘\
9
*to.
jgi
i
H
KS r
>->. I
W* M
■
; : ...; :
Ki
wtmMrnmMi
mm
( _
»'
BHi
Wjpi*
g?S>;x
m
m
M
M
ill
ztTt
£
if
g&sa
: *&■
-*r
Wl
Hi
1
«
M
ROADS
to insure Australia's future
The whole future of Australia depends upon good roads
. . . strategic roads, built in record time, for the transport
of troops and supplies across a vast continent. Roads are
vital, too, for the future prosperity of Australia . . . and to
bring our great hinterland closer to rail and dock • • • closer
to world markets.
These roads are being built at a vast saving of time, money
and manpower with Caterpillar Diesel Tractors and Waugh
& Josephson Earth-Moving Equipment. The work of yeais
is being changed into the work of months. Hard slugging,
monotonous toil is being taken from the backs of workers
and placed upon big, brutish machines... where it belongs.
We thank our loyal users of Caterpillar Tractors and Waugh
& Josephson Earth-Moving Equipment, who have sacrificed
their own needs to give right of way to our Victory effort.
CT-6-33-42
CATERPILLAR V/esei
TRACK-TYPE TRACTORS and
REG. U.S. PAT. OFF.
WAUGH
& JOSEPHSON EARTH - MOVING EQUIPMENT
► WAUGH
Distributors for New South Wales and Queensland:
& JOSEPHSON PTY.
LTD.
‘ Unwin's Bridge Road, St. Peters. Sydney - ' phone: L £P 2l
Marquis Street, Gunnedah - Phone: Gunnedah 326
Marquis Street, isunneaan - V d Tweedle Port Macquarie—
Service Engineers; Mr. J - f.R athb br 9 ' 6 K/nc art* Street Wagga— ''Phone:'2BB6; 102 Melbourne Street,
■Phone: Port Macquane , nnisfail 475 ,
<$)
dfg
m
10 for 1/1
20 for 2/2
ueaU’4£ftMtaUen/
#4-
Save - or Slave. Put
all you've got into £lO
National Savings Bonds.
50 6 5 8
Answers to Correspondents
Name and address must appear on the MS. So
liability is undertaken re contributions voluntarily
submitted- and no MS. will be returned unless
stamps accompany. MS. should be addressed to
the Editor.
The Muse aroused: —
G.T.: —
Good men with whom one bums _ _
To converse as of old will now insist
That I as well as they must have a h ist,
A View, a Voice, a Something that s entailed
In shaping a New World . . .
,1 cannot quite forget the days of yore
When politics and such were just a bore;
I further rather fear that all their views
Have first been featured in the daily news,
Nothing startlingly original in the
thoughts that the clouds have a silver lining
and the sun will rise to-morrow.. .'.V.F.S.:
The strain of the time seems to have driven
Pat off his onion J.R.P.: Try a womans
paper....R.H.: Keep at it....8.E.F.: Promis-
ing C.F.M.: Rhymes ragged, theme dis-
jointed. .. : That “sorrow’’-“horror
rhyme’s a horror indeed L.H.D.: The
Edge of the Plain” doesn’t really begin until
the sixth stanza W.M.F.: “Approved
descends into bathos in the last three_ words....
G.D.; You’ve been reading Hemingway....
C. 8.: Idea all right, but you make heavy
going of it ___
SERVICE DEPARTMENT.
Wants.
To buy General and Practical Optics (1932
edition preferred), and Visual Optics and Sight-
resling (1936 edition), by Lionel Laurence. —
3341.
Information Sought.
If they deem it necessary, can the military
authorities force a member of the forces to
undergo a surgical operation?
Any member of the Citizen Forces on war
service or of the Permanent Forces may be
required to undergo “such medical and dental
treatment as is deemed by a medical officer to
be necessary to cure, remove, prevent, or to
reduce the likelihood of any disease or infirmity
which in the opinion of the medical officer
affects or is likely to affect the efficiency of
the member in the performance of his duties,
or to endanger the health of any other member. - ’
The water here is heavily charged with lime;
any method of preventing deposit on cooking
vessels or means of removing deposit ? Our
kettles become almost stone kettles.
It is not practicable to treat the lime-charged
water chemically if it is to be used for cook-
ing or drinking, and other safe methods are
far too expensive for the ordinary household.
Deposits in cooking vessels may often be re-
moved by boiling for some time with a tannin
infusion. If tile deposits are very thick and
hard, this may take a long time. No certain
method of preventing the formation of the
deposit on cooking vessels is known.
Brief Answers.
F.M.: Tyrrell’s bookshop, 281 George-
street, Sydney N.S.: Samples of six-
row barley can be recognised by twisted
appearance of lateral grains P.L.: British
Zambesia is now officially included in Rho-
desia... .T.W.P.: Vade mecum is Latin, mean-
ing “go with me.” L.V.: Leather-jacket
skins have been used with success for
varnish ctrinning... .C.M.H.: To pickle eggs,
shell one dozen cold, hard-boiled eggs; boil
together one quart white vinegar, one dessert-
spoon salt, three tablespoons sugar, one tea-
spoon peppercorns, cayenne and half
a dozen cloves. Boil for about five minutes,
and when quite cold pour over eggs. Let stand
for a week or more M.R.: (1) Applying
ordinary enamel to the inside of a saucepan
would taint anything cooked in it. (2) Boil
milk by standing jug in pan of water, the water
being the same level as the milk in the jug.
May be boiled for 20 minutes and will not boil
over M.H.: Advisable to wait until boy is
called up for his medical examination F. 8.:
First ploughing should be 6in. to Bin. deep;
in early stages it is essential to keep weeds
down R.H.W.: Information unobtainable.
A.8.C.: Get in touch with the Australian
Fellowship of Writers L. 8.: Onion thrips
may be killed by a spray of Paris green (£oz.),
brown sugar (21b.), water (three gallons)
K. 1.: Apply to Officer-in-Charge, Vocational
Guidance section, Dept, of Labor and Industry,
211 Kent-street, Sydney N.H.A.: A quarter-
sawn board will work less in width, though
more in thickness, than a back-sawn board.


AT YOUR
SERVICE
OliW~7H4i£thaH etfek...
AS A FREE SERVICE the
Commonwealth Savings Bank
will accept Commonwealth Bonds
for safe custody from any person.
If required, the Bank will also
sell such bonds for the holder at
current market rates, paying to
him full proceeds, less selling
expenses—(l /- for £lO Bonds,
5/- % for £lOO and over).
The Bank will at all times accept
subscriptions or Advance Sub*
scriptions to Commonwealth
Loans.
The only safe way to ensure that you
can play your own proud and patriotic
part is to save for it. To be thrifty is
to make a timely and vital contribu-
tion to the national effort. Use your
Commonwealth Savings Bank account
to save, so that you may lend.
Invest all you can in
£lO National Savings
Bonds, War Savings
Certificates, or War
Savings Stamps.
if
m
t %,m>-
wm.
•s WHH
\ x
£
H
r
U
&
»
te
afe
X::--
m
m,
in
*■s?
f|W|
commonmcaLTH
snuincs BOOK
OP fi USTROLIfI
CB.l
iwmem
v\\*»
It
So long as men take
wing, the name “de HavillancT
will be spoken with respect, with admiration
and with gratitude. No other name has
brought a larger measure of safety and
protection to those who fly. To-day, this
organisation knows only one purpose
... to speed the hour of Victory.
d e HAVILLAND
DE HAVILLAND AIRCRAFT PTY. LTD., SYDNEY
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
Woolworths, Ltd.
, Dividends ,
Ist 2nd
Pref. Pref. Ord. To Re- Re-
Jan., Profit. 10 p.c. 7 p.c. 25 p.c. serves, serves.)
£*£*£/ £• ' £/ £>
1934.. 85,552 7500 4,579 41,947 31,526 71,525
Assets written up and £258,182 1
of bonus scrip distributed. Un- I 9 RR ,
explained addition reserves, £16,088; [ ’
added goodwill. £77,732. J
12$ p.c.
1985. .100,418 7500 7,000 52,746 33,172 43,053
To staff fund, £lOOO 42,053
Share premiums, £30,000 .. .. 72,053
17$ p.c.
1936 147 550 7500 11.862 I 50.344 122.397
Staff fund and chanties, £4OOO }
Assets written up and unexplained
additions to reserves, £455,583 .. 577,980
Reserves capitalised, £421,969 .. 156,011
12$ p.c.
1937 !72 341 7500 14,000 106.«* I 42>349 198>860
Staff fund and chanties, £3OOO J
Share premiums, £126,591 .. ..,324,951
1938 «; 2 ff 7, f 7l !i l 3/’S I 53,155 378.106
Staff fund and chanties, £osoo ) ’
Reserves capitalised, £185,667 .. 192,439
Insurance, efc., reserve disappears,
£7500 184,939
17$ p.c. .
1939. .271,693 7500 14.000 194,950 )
Staff fund and charities, £5OOO f
1940.. 272.922 7500 14,000 194,950 ) . 79 9Rfi
To charities, £5OOO .. .. \ 51.472 286,604
Tax reserve taken in, £120,095 .. 406,749
1941.. 282.566 7500 14.000 194,950 66,116 472,865
12$ p.c.
1942. .253,790 7500 14,000 139,250 93,040 565,905
11 p.c.
1943. .148,303 7500 14,000 122,540 4,263 570,168
t Excluding depreciation resex-ve, £245,871 at
31/1/’4S.
Like most other retailers, the big chain
stores are feeling the pinch of the numer-
ous restrictions and imposts which aim
primarily at cutting down civilian con-
sumption for the purpose of liberating
maximum resources for war purposes.
These imposts and restrictions have gone
a long way towards satisfying the pur-
poses for which they were designed. To-
gether with the use of central bank credit,
they have also given rise to a new peril,
inflation. Insufficient of the forced sav-
ings that have resulted from increased
incomes and reduced power to spend
them have been mopped up by the Gov-
ernment to pay for the war goods pro-
duced, Thus the workers stand in danger
of losing all they have recently gained,
and more besides. , The standard of
living depends mainly upon what
money will buy, ' and that largely
depends upon a stable currency. Further
heavy imposts in taxation would be
unpopular, especially among the lower-
income groups, whereas compulsory loans
according to income, with staggered re-
payments immediately after the war,
would both mop up surplus spending
power now and release it when it will
be most needed.
Clothes rationing has affected turnover
of Woolworths and its subsidiaries, of
course. Sales have also suffered a set-
back owing to the mobilisation of women
in the services, where stockings, under-
wear, etc., are ordinary items of issue,
which are replaced when worn out. And
some of the cheap household lines and
other inexpensive frills of civilisation
which the co. used to sell have now dis-
appeared from the market, owing to con-
version of plants to production of war
goods. And exchange, shipping and
other import difficulties have affected the
crockery and chinaware section of the
business, while sales of sportswear have
receded, too. At the same time costs
gathered momentum in all directions, and
the demands of the taxgatherer (£83,269,
up £27,084) grew louder.
So, after setting aside £3106 less
for depreciation (£25,002), there was a
sharp contraction of £105,487 in net
earnings. The £148,303 of profit claimed,
which includes divs. from holdings in
seven healthy subsidiaries —these holdings
appear in the books at £1,376.263 —was
enough to pay the prefs. their full con-
tract rates and show 11.3 p.c. on ord.
capital as against 20.8 p.c. for the preced-
ing term. No specific provision was made
for taxation in either case. The div. was
lowered from \2\ p.c. to 11 p.c. Still,
of the £1,113,999 of ord. capital, £944,712
(approx. 17s. in the £) represents bonus
scrip scattered since 1930. So, although
new issues brought with them £199,977
of share premiums, the 11 p.c. div. is
worth a lot more to those who have held
their scrip for the last 13 years or more.
The lighter volume of the year’s busi-
ness is further reflected in the following
comparison of balance-sheet figures:
1937. 1940, 1942. 1943.
£ £ £ £
Paid capital 1,118,938 1,388,999 1,388,999 1,388,999
Liabilities.. 306,662 316,798 626,390 389,925
Freeholds, etc. 417,585 36,717 41,148 41,148
Leaseholds.. 87,016 82,506 82,065 75,745
Plant .. 239,571 282,531 350,928 844,317
Shares other
cos. etc.. 847,326 1,226,263 1,376,263 1,376,263
Stocks ~ 349,439 465,024 767,109 684,896
Debtors .. *64,359 *344,625 *298,600 *206,242
Cash .. 4,749 6,479 8,627 19,442
* Includes advances to associated c05.—£58,291,
1937; £317,321, 1940; £287,624, 1942; £192,370,
1943.
No less than £181,381 was lopped off the
overdraft (now £32,428), the amount com-
ing to trade creditors (£95,365) was re-
duced by £42,333 and current accounts
of subsidiaries (£262,532) were £12,791
lower. To do all this, stocks were re-
duced by £132,213 and debtors’ balances,
mainly advances to subsidiaries, by
£92,358. There was, however, an im-
provement of £22,709 in the more or less
liquid surplus (£470,655, excluding shares
in other cos.).
The pups, most of which balance at
earlier dates than the parent, made a
slightly better showing. After meeting
Treasury requirements (£388,691, down
£393.3), declared net earnings were
£16,837 better at £265,080. But only
£102,302 was paid out in divs, as against
£251,416 in the previous term. Their
combined paid capitals aggregate
£1,983,996, of which £743,394 is pref.
and preferred ord. money calling for
£47,304 p.a. Their combined stocks
(£1,047,733) showed a contraction of
£115,999.
South Australian Brewing Co.
Writ- Added
ten to Re- Re-
Feb., Profit. Dividends. Off. serves, serves.
£ £ £ £ £
1933.. 48,660 6 p.c. = 30,000 7,500 ) „„„„ „ 7 ,„ R
Reserved for bad debts, £7500 ) aow 6 ‘‘OZb
1934.. 49,915 64 p.c.= 32,500 7,500 ( ......
Reserved for bad debts, £5OOO } 4yl ° 4Z > 441
Inner reserves disclosed, £120,000 .. 162,441
1935.. 52,155 7 p.c. = 35,000 7,500 f
Reserved for bad debts, £5OOO j 4bsi> lb ' ,uyb
1936. . 56,645 74 p.c.- 37,500 7,500 t ..... ...
Reserved for bad debts, £5OOO J bb4D
1937.. 67,124 9 p.c. = 45,000 22,124 195,865
1938.. 74.417 10 „ „ 50,000 15,000 9,417 205.282
1939.. 92,225 10 „ „ 60 v 616 20,000 11,609 216,891
1940.. 98,135 10 „ „ 72,137 20,000 5,998 222,889
1941.. 94,741 10 „ „ 72,208 20,000 2,533 225,422
1942.. 83,038 10 „ „ 72,208 10,830 236,252
1943.. 81,216 10 „ „ 72,208 9,008 245,260
A year of 33 p.c. curtailment of civilian
beer deliveries —Jan.-Feb., 1942, was the
base period—advancing costs and unpre-
cedented tax rates has occasioned no
embarrassment as regards earning power.
Offsetting influences have been service
demands (these fall outside the general
restriction scheme) and shifts m popula-
tion as the result of the State’s industrial
war effort, which with restricted markets
for most primary products except wool
has accelerated the change in the pattern
of the State economy that had begun in
the last years of peace. When controls
are lifted, the rapid development of
1.C.1., British Tube Mills and
others in heavy industry should mean
much from a reconstructidn as well as
brewer’s viewpoint.
South Aus. beer consumption appeared
to be running at the rate of 11 gallons
or so a head when hotel rationing was
introduced:
Year. Year.
June. Gallons. Head. June. Gallons. Head,
1932.. 3,293,891 5.71 1 1937.. 4,993,962 8.49
1933.. 3,409,785 5.99 I 1938.. 5,493,053 9.30
1934.. 3,862,409 6.63 | 1939.. 6,015,395 10.12
1935.. 4,002,702 6,85 I 1940.. 6,242,179 10.46
1936.. 4,651,214 7.93 | 1941.. 6,419,766 10.79
The grape-growing State’s liking for the
wine it produces is responsible for the
low per capita consumption relative to
the rest of the Commonwealth. South
Aus. Brewing caters for most of the busi-
ness, and the trade of its Nathan and
West End breweries also spills over into
what used to be the thirsty mining centres
of Kalgoorlie (W.A.) and Broken Hill
(N.S.W.). Including reserve movements,
and making, “full provision for taxation
and depreciation”—brewers are a conser-
vative fraternity—net effect of the factors
enumerated was to leave net earnings
only £1822 lower at £81,216 in the term
just closed. On capital the £81,216 was
11.2 p.c., against 11.5, 13.1 and 13.5 p.c.
for the three years before. Div. was
maintained at 10 p.c. with a margin of
£9OOB ; there were no appropriations to
inner reserves, which in the past have ab-
sorbed most of undistributed takings.
Biggest individual amount socked away
was in connection with the absorption of
Walkerville Brewery, the co.’s most ener-
getic competitor, in 1938. The amount
involved was roughly £140,000, being the
difference between purchase price
(122,080 £1 shares) and the value in the
vendor’s books of assets acquired. A
cash issue of £lOO,OOO at the same time
brought capital to its present figure, of


INVENTORS. —Have you an idea worth patenting?
Griffith, Hassel and Griffith, Patent Attorneys,
Asbestos House, Or. York and Barrack Streets, Sydney,
obtain Commonwealth and foreign patents.— Advt.
* * * *
Hydraulic Power, Electric and Hydraulic Lifts,
Limited (incorporated by Act of Parliament 1888),
hydraulic, electric and general engineers, lift
specialists. Maintenance and repairs of all classes of
lifts and other machinery. Colonial Mutual Life
Building, 14 Martin Place, Sydney.— Advt.
* * * *
DAVIES & COLLISON, Patent Attorneys, Collina
House, 360 Collins Street, Melbourne, C.l. Austra-
lian and overseas Patents and Trade Marks.— Advt,
STO p , lir g
(l^PwOBRIES
Try the new Roussel Rupture Appliance Free.
Enables you to do the hardest work with com-
fort and.security. Definitely holds, a condition
absolutely necessary for possible improvement
or recovery. Recommended by Doctors every-
where. Satisfaction guaranteed no matter
where you live. Send for details, self measure-
ment form, testimonials and 14 days’ free trial
offer. No obligation.
THE HOXJSSEIi APPT.TATVCE CO..
DEPT. 27, 84 PITT ST.. SYDNEY.
UNITED
INSURANCE
COMPANY LTD.
ESTABLISHED 1862.
Head Office:
GEORGE 8 HUftltt 61WFS. SYDNEY.
CAPITAL - - £1,000,000
All classes of Fire, Marine and
Accident Insurances effected at
Lowest Current Rates.
The “United” is an Australian Institution
A. C. DAWSON. T. 0. REYNOLDS,
Gen. Manager. Asst. Gen. Manager.
Le *%Ke
\S
to
po
diCH ER
•£SS~t
NUGGET
JOIN THE LIBERAL DEMOCRATIC COUNTRY PARTY.
fok improved representation, better marketing.
Pensions for Farmers, Prospectors and Settlers at least equal to coalminers’ State Pensions
Ten Shilling's a Year for Membership. Payable yearly or quarterly.
L. GREEN (ex A.1.F.). Secretary and Organiser, of Grafton, Goulburn and Sydney.
Postal, 604 FF, G.P.0., SYDNEY.
$
fjamoM
0&
mcs
ntcdJ*
diode
m
y}(A£(*
me
To-day Its work is vital in the wider
national sense.
When peace comes it will resume
its importance in the broadcast radio
world.
HIS MISTERS VOICE"
RADIO
THE GRAMOPHONE GOY. LTD*
(Incorporated In England)
HOMEBUSH fI.S.W-
-JUS2L
state express
///
ahuaysphase !
Lend your Money to hasten Victory
Buy £lO National Savings Bonds or
War Savings Certificates .
lasso-n 4*
which a quarter-million is bonus scrip
scattered in the ’twenties:
1933. 1938. 1942. 1943.
Paid capital.. £500,000 £500.000 £722.080 £722,080
Creditors* .. 154,763 126,345 333,257 289,332
Pk 2° ld etc I 390 ’ 589 584)146 { 9 80,417 IS
sSkL. .. 17,683 25,525 61,393 77,237
Book debtsf.. 38,597 36.805 117,907 118,517
Advances .. 259,528 152,536 83,912 50,714
Cash .. .. ' 15,892 72,617 21,911 _ 12,497
* Includes taxation. t Includes shareholdings.
This expansionist policy —with assistance
from outsiders it doubled the book value
of fixed assets in the four preceding years
—was brought to a halt by the monetary
and physical needs of the war machine
last term, when depreciation effected a
net reduction of £9758. The money, with
repayment of £33,198 of advances, went
to lighten the co.’s own debt, which in-
cludes something probably hefty for
taxation.
The co.’s obvious muscle and grip on
the trade are encouraging aspects of the
future. For the present, however, brewers
are expected to carry the burden of addi-
tional war costs except excise, man-power
and austerity restrictions have made pub
properties less remunerative and the malt
position is a worry. Twelve months’
barley supplies are on hand, but with
production down to half annual require-
ments much depends on the extent of the
labor relief promised here and the farm
price.
Union Theatres Investments, Ltd.
Union Theatres Investments, Ltd.,
which owns the State Theatre and shop-
ping block in Sydney, has put forward
a proposal for a rearrangement of the
rights of pref. shareholders; they were once
entitled to a “guaranteed” 8 p.c. It may be
mentioned in passing that probably no
Australian organisation in which public
money is invested has had more capital
“re-arrangements” than the Union
Theatres group. In the theatrical business
generally it seems that not only are capi-
tal accounts and “rights” temperamen-
tal ; they are most involved and intricate
as well. At any rate, for better or
worse, the following case is made out to
pref. shareholders in U.T. Investments:
At present the prefs. have the right to a
fixed cumulative div. of 5 p.c. and to par-
ticipate in 50 p.c. of tnc balance of profits
each year after the- payment of 1 p.c. to the
ords. Owing to a number of factors, profits
have fallen to the extent that they are very
little more than sufficient to pay the 5 p.c.
Directors anticipate the possibility of a further
decline in the profits, with threats to the 5 p.c.
div., which amounts to £17,500 each year.
For each of the last five years net profits
have been as follows;
52 weeks to December 31, 1938... .£25,263
52 weeks to December 30, 1939.... 22,812
52 weeks to December 28, 1940 23,695
52 weeks to December 27, 1941 19,471
53 weeks to January 2, 1943.... 18,998
These profits are after provision for income
taxes, the amount of which, in respect of the
last two years, has been estimated.
Revenue of the co. is derived from fixed
rents, whereas expenses over the last few years
have shown a substantial increase, particularly
in relation to Federal land tax, income tax,
payroll tax and war damage insurance. The
profit has been enough to pay 5 p.c. on prefs.,
and in 1938, 1939 and 1940 1 p.c, was paid on
ords., but no ord. div. was available for the
1941 or 1942 years. Directors have in hand
arrangements with Greater Union Theatres
Pty. for the acquisition of the trading activities
of the State Theatre and State Theatrette. The
effect should be “a very substantial immediate
improvement in the net profit.”
Acquisition of these trading activities is sub-
ject to the pref. shareholders agreeing to a fixed
cumulative pref. div. of 6 p.c. and giving up
their participating rights, which have not in
the past been of any real value.
Greater Union Theatres Pty. owns 126,664
of the prefs. and the whole of the 500,000 ords.
in U.T. Investments, and is willing to continue
the management of the State Theatre and State
Theatrette on these terms:
(a) For ten years the profits of the State
Theatre, Sydney, will not be allowed
• to fall to less than £40,000 a year —
£6200 in excess of the present rental.
(b) Greater Union to manage the State
Theatre as it has done for some years
in regard to film supplies, publicity,
supervision and general control.
(c) Greater Union to receive a management
fee of 2'i p.c. of the profits of the
State Theatre, such fee not to be
charged as an expense in arriving at the
guaranteed minimum profit of £40,000,
(d) Similar provisions in respect of the
State Theatrette, except in regard to the
guarantee of the theatrette rent. In the
past, half only of the net profits of the
theatrette has been received by U.T.
Investments as rental. Under present
proposals the whole of the net profit
of the State Theatrette will pass to U.T.
Investments.
The meeting is to be held on May 17,
and a three-fourths majority of the pref.
shares is wanted. While the prefs. would
appear to be assured of a 6 p.c. div.
under the new scheme (as against a prob-
lematical 5 p.c. under the old), the posi-
tion and underlying reasons for the whole
proposition might be made more plain
if the takings of the State enter-
prises in recent years were published.
Though, by virtue of a fixed rental receipt
and rising costs, the Investments co. has
suffered a fall in profits, there is no doubt
that attendances of late have been the
best in the history of the State Theatre.
It is understood that Greater Union’s
lease ran out on Jan. 1 this year, and
that the rental for the theatre up till then
was £33,800 p.a. It is possible that the
theatre is worth more than £33,800 a
year without any capital re-arrangement,
and that U.T. Investments is entitled to
ask for a higher rent,
Westralian gold shows to end financial
terms in March included Central Norse-
man and Gold Mines of Kalgoorlie. The
former showed 82,200 tons (a 30 p.c.
reduction) on the production sheet, but
9.3dwt. recoveries enabled it to gladden
its owners’ hearts (Western Mining Corp.
81 p.c. and Phoenix Mines 19 p.c.) with
a maiden £BO,OOO distribution. Grade for
the final quarter ran out at 7.6dwt., and
that is more in line from what can be
expected from the mine as a whole. G.M.
of Kalgoorlie saw both treatment
(130,200, down 29,200 tons) and yields
(4.7dwt, against S.ldwt.) contract. Re-
duced earnings' here, however, are less
the concern of shareholders than the
British Treasury, which has been skim-
ming off a disproportionate whack of
profits to date by virtue of G.M.K. being
in the transitional stage during the stand-
ard years for e.-p.t. assessment,
« * * *
Lake View and Star, Ltd. (W.A.), pays
an interim dividend of 6d. sterling, less
U.K. income tax of 7s. 2d. in the £, on
lune 23. Books closed in Australia on
May 8. In the face of less production,
soaring costs of supplies and reduced
profit, a cut in the next distribution would
not be surprising. Chairman Christopher-
son hinted as much at the last annual
meeting. Shortage of workers due to
enlistment and call-ups has reduced
development to a minimum. This reduc-
tion, however, can be regarded, as the
London “Financial Times” says, with a
certain equanimity in view of the satis-
factory ore reserve position. Reserves
have increased during the year by 69,500
tons to 4,200,000 tons. Successful open-
ing up of the minor lodes has contri-
buted to that position, the reserves there
amounting to 1,047,900 tons. Included
in the total reserve is 898,500 tons of
broken ore, which enables the treatment
plant to be supplied with feed requiring
a minimum amount of labor.


STEEL
in the shape you need. .
‘ vl
3
i ■
%
m
* : *
j plfPfPi
A
:;S:
■ IK
■
Ml
Forming and Pending neavy
channels and angle iron ... render-
ing steel into shapes to suit your
needs... this is the everyday task of
this huge 500-ton Cincinnati Press.
At present it is being used by Armco
in the manufacture of Ammunition
Storage Dumps, Pill Boxes, large
Culvert Pipes, etc., being supplied
for use by the Armed Forces in
Australia.
This press is also forming heavy
channels and angle iron for new
Rolling Stock.
If you have a heavy or difficult bend-
ing problem, consult Armco (Aus-
tralia) Pty. Ltd.
?
AIMCO
ARMCO (AUSTRALIA) PTY. LTD.
SYDNEY • MELBOURNE • BRISBANE . ADELAIDE
Public Notice.
LAKE VIEW AND STAR, LTD.
INTERIM DIVIDEND No. 52.
NOTICE is hereby given that a, first interim
dividend of 12} per cent. (6d. per share), in
respect of the year ending 30th June, 1943, less
United Kingdom income tax at 7s. 2d. in the
£ (2.15 d. per share), has been declared and
will be payable on 23rd June next to all persons
registered as holders of shares on the Aus-
tralian register at the close of business on
Bth May, 1943. The net amount of dividend
sterling is equal to 3.85 d. per share. The trans-
fer books will be closed from 10th to 1-th
May, both days inclusive.
For Lake View and Star, Limited,
WILLIAM THOMAS, Local Secretary,
Kalgoorlie, 30th April, 1943.
Business, Rollery, Etc.
Murky Economics
A lot of fanciful ideas have been put
forward from time to time about how,
through finance, things that are obvi-
ously costs to us could be avoided, and
so on. “Credit” was the basis of one such
idea; another was that money spent ex-
travagantly is never really wasted, as the
money goes on circulating afterwards
quite regardless of the fact of whether it
has done a faithful job previously or a
deceitful one. At the present time those
people who are honestly interested in
these matters have an illuminating revela-
tion before their eyes—credit, already
excessively used, is failing to do what its
advocates hoped of it, and waste is add-
ing to the burdens, already heavy, of a
particularly costly war.
The use of “bank credit” or any other
credit in any quantity can obviously no
more remove the inroads into our living
standards caused by the waste of war
than it can do the actual fighting of the
war on the battlefields. Money in war
is largely a matter of organisation—a
distribution of rewards and burdens, both
as to time and to persons. Its proper
organisation can do much to help win a
war, as it can greatly influence the flow
of man-power and materials into* the
required channels, but its use is limited
by the man-power and materials available.
It is with those things, properly mar-
shalled, that we fight the war.
During the nine months to the end of
March Australia spent £407.5 million on
war. If the recent monthly rate of war
outgo is maintained, the year will close
with a total cost of £550 million, a little
above the forecast of a few months ago.
It represents more than half of all that
Australia is able to produce or perform.
In other days this huge quantity of
materials and services would have been
available to Australians in food, cloth-
ing, transport, entertainment and luxuries,
with advertisers urging the consumption
or use of more. Today it is being applied
to the defence of the Commonwealth in
the destruction of the enemy, and is itself
to a great extent destroyed in the process.
In the main, the cost of war is still
being wrongly financed in this country.
The bullets and shells we shoot at the
enemy are still represented in our books
as assets to a large extent even after
they have been fired away. To be pre-
cise, of the £407.5 million spent on war
to March 31, £334.2 million was found
by borrowing, and only 18 p.c. of the
total was met out of current revenue. It
is inflationary finance, and wrongly repre-
sents the position so far as the real war
burden is concerned. This misrepresen-
tation goes further in that the great
growth in savings-bank deposits, a result
of inadequate monetary taxation on
people doing war work, has been accom-
panied by a 22 p.c. increase in living
costs since war started, and a great deal
more such inflation is threatened if arti-
ficial controls break down or are
removed.
In addition to this budgetary inflation,
other inflation is occurring through
waste and excessive expenditure. The
Government has dealt weakly with the
demands of trade-unions ; because of the
shortage of man-power caused by the
taking of men for the fighting services,
overtime has had to be worked in many
industries, and heavy penalty rates are
being paid for it. Job control in some
trades has reduced productivity per head
and has increased the amount of over-
time to be worked.
Another matter in which the Govern-
ment is letting the country down is one
in which it is a perfectly willing agent—
in fact, it is the sponsor. Its socal secu-
rity scheme, to be presented to Parlia-
ment shortly, is a proposition from which
only liabilities will be carried forward
into the peace, as all the revenue to be
earmarked for unemployment and sick-
ness relief and pensions is to be spent
on war immediately. The fact that after
the war the Defence Department may
owe the Social Security Fund a hundred
million or some other figure doesn’t alter
the obvious truth that if the money has
once been spent for war purposes it is
gone, and the Government has only an
imaginary welfare, fund, although its
commitments to the people may be real.
The Government is very unrealistic in
its attitude to the pay-as-you-go taxation
policy, Canada has adopted it, and in
America a somewhat similar piece of
legislation is going to the Senate. In
Australia it is widely believed that the
present method of charging taxation is
illegal, and that the Treasurer has been
so advised, but he has refused to enter
into “any disputation” over the matter
in the House.. At present a taxpayer
always dies owing tax for at least six
months, usually much more. A man
retires in the same circumstances, and he
may go from comparatively high pay in
civil life to lower pay in the forces under
similar conditions. This lag year should
be eliminated, whether it is legal or
illegal, especially in view of the great re-
adjustment in incomes that is likely to
be seen when the war finishes. Wage-
and salary-earners should have current
taxation taken from current earnings at
the source. The loss to the Government,
if any, would be very little, and adoption
of pay-as-you-go would be a concession to
reason and political honesty, and as such
would shine like a star in the murk sur-
rounding the whole Federal economic
administration.
Another 8000-ton freighter has been
launched at a South Australian shipyard
under the Commonwealth shipbuilding
scheme. The Adelaide Steamship Co.
has been appointed managing agent for
these ships.
* * *
It is expected that Australia’s wool clip
this season will realise £7l million, says
the Winchcombe, Carson firm. The pre-
vious-highest cheque was £66.7 million,
in 1927-28. The 1942-43 figure represents
an increase of about 6 p.c. over that for
1927-28. In the meantime the cost of
living has increased 10 p.c. Wool pro-
duction in the latest period shows the big-
gest decline since the war started ; it was
the 15 p.c. increase in price granted by
the British Government which produced
the increased figure—it is up about £8
million on the actual result for 1941-42.
Australia now has 125 million sheep.
* * * *
John Storey, Commonwealth aircraft
man, has said that the spares de-
partment would handle about £2,000,000-
worth of Beaufort bomber parts this
year, and that the purchasing depart-
ment would buy about £lO million worth
of materials. There had not been one
major accident connected with the test
flight of any Beaufort torpedo bomber
made in this country. An “appreciable
number” of these machines, equal to any
other similar aircraft produced elsewhere
in the world, was now being turned out.
In action they were doing a good job,
and suited Australian aerial strategy.
,♦* * *
A line on the Government’s borrowing
programme was given last week by
Federal Treasurer Chifley. He said a £l3
million conversion would be marketed to
cover the 3| p.c. issue maturing on
August 15, and mentioned that the next
big cash operation will take place about
the end of the year. The Treasurer did not
mention compulsory loans by means of
post-war credits. There has been talk
that the next financial year will see this
form of borrowing. It is overdue.
* * * *
'Hie United States House of Represen-
tatives has approved, after rejection of
the Ruml plan, of compromise pay-as-
you-go income-tax legislation. The bill
proposes to cancel at least 75 p.c. of all
taxpayers’ 1942 liabilities and to wipe
out these liabilities completely in 90 p.c.
of cases. There will, however, be a2O
p.c. withholding tax on all taxable wages
and salaries in 1943. From cabled in-
formation it would appear that, as in the
case of Canada, there will be no interrup-
tion to present collections, but at the end
of any given year taxpayers will have
paid most or all of their taxes, with only
adjustments and minor items to be
arranged for. In Australia an income-
earning person always retires or dies in
debt to the taxation authorities.
* * * *
It is reported from Canberra that the
next session of the Federal Parliament
(in June) will concern itself with the
social-security scheme that has been de-
signed as a parasitic growth on the Com-
monwealth’s already weak war finances.
The thing has been described as “a
scheme of sickness and unemployment
relief based on the New Zealand model,”
and it will be “non-contributqry.” The
non-contributory part of it makes it very
unlike the Maoriland scheme, where there
is a flat-rate social-security tax of Is. in
the £ on all income, from £1 a year to
£lO,OOO a year. Although the M.L. ser-
vice is not so directly contributory as
the proposed Beveridge plan in Britain,
the taxation to finance the scheme is defi-
nitely earmarked at the beginning for a
specific purpose. In the Commonwealth
the idea is to disguise the taking of the
money from the people and to stress only
the “giving” side of it. In other words,
a political stunt.


DOAN’S
BACKACHE
KIDNEY PILLS
Used successfully for backache and
kidney troubles the world over by
millions of people.
If you suffer from Backache and
Kidney Trouble take a course of
DOAN S PILUS at once. They will soon
make you well.
SOLD BY ALL CHEMISTS
AND STOREKEEPERS.
Foster-McClellan Co.,
Proprietors,
15 Hamilton St., Sydney.
52^
J -- 1 I’-"//
I
rr»
I
C.S.R.HARDWALL PLASTER
Packed in Jute Bags
PLi
THE COLONIAL SUGAR REFINING
(Building Materials Division)
SYDNEY - • MELBOURNE « ■ BRISBANE - -
COMPANY LTD.
ADELAIDE • * PERTH
P. 1«.
Specially de-
signed to resist
more - than -
ordinary wear,
this exceplion-
all y hard
gypsum finish-
ing plaster is
recommended
for all wall sur-
faces which are
subject to ex-
ceptional wear
and tear.
A
m
V--
', r^
* > -mm
S
®.mms*
Mm
w
.»••• %
Are you shackling this man ?
Consider well, and face the question: Are you sending your
soldier boy into battle with his hands tied; are you denying him
the right of all free men to fight for his life and all he holds
dear and all YOU hold dear?
If you are withholding the weapons he needs, you are condemn-
ing him to fight machines with bare knuckles. That’s not cricket!
He needs arms, munitions, tanks, planes, transport and equipment
of all kinds and the cost comes high.
Do your part in seeing that he “ gets enough in time”. Buy to
the fullest measure of your ability, National Savings Bonds or
War Savings Certificates and buy with pride and high courage
to-day! To-morrow may be too late!
This advertisement is inserted by
*0?
HI
the makers of Top Dog Men’s Wear
On Munitions Minister Makin's
authority, B.H.P. has supplied millions
of tons of steel at prices below those in
other countries. “For our munition lac-
tones and the equipment of the fighting
forces, steel has been supplied at cost
price. This patriotic gesture by the co.
has been withheld from the public too
long.” Mr. Makin added that when the
Government failed to get a formula and
other requisites for certain armor plating,
B.H.P. men evolved a process under Gov-
ernment supervision, and armor plating
is now being made at one-sixth the cost
of imports. As to Essington Lewis, “no
man has served his nation more worthily
or with greater ability.”
* * -■) *
Prices are being more strictly con-
trolled than wages at the present time,
and taxation of wages is light in com-
parison with the cost of war to Australia,
hence the inflation in savings-bank de-
posits and the growth in the note issue.
On April 26 there was £135.9 million of
notes in the hands of the public and in
the banks —about £l2O million of it in
the hands of the public. That is very
nearly four times the average pre-war
figure. At the same date the central
bank’s holding of Government securities
and “debentures, etc.,” totalled £322 mil-
lion.
* * * *
Senator Keane has announced that the
value of lend-lease aid to Australia up
to March 1 this year was $452 million.
It represents 4.7 p.c. of all the lend-lease
aid given in the same period. The United
Kingdom’s share was 46 p.c., Russia’s
19 p.c., Africa and the Middle East 16.3
p.c.. Far East and India 6.2 p.c.. New
Zealand 1.4 p.c., China 1.6 p.c, and other
areas 4.8 p.c.
* * * •
Out of 31,000,000 eggs put into cold
storage by the N.S.W. Egg Marketing
Board last October and November, “at
least” 1,500,000 have gone bad. The loss
of 5 p.c, compares with 2 p.c. or so
ordinarily; manager W. R. Whiting says
“we did not expect such a big percentage
of bad eggs.” Eggs are very scarce in
Sydney at present —that is, good eggs are.
* * * *
Prime Minister Curtin, back in the
State which elected him to Parliament,
said last week that the Commonwealth
intended to abide by its arrangement not
to reduce the number of men, in the West-
ralian goldmining industry to below 4500
without the consent of the State Govern-
ment. The idea was “to keep the mines
going.” Nevertheless, the P.M. admitted
that the authorities were looking to the
West for more labor forces for the pro-
duction of strategic minerals. Gold is
not considered a strategic mineral. It is
at present in a condition of suspended
animation in most countries except South
Africa. There political considerations
are as important as the economic. In
Westralia’s case more than immediate
considerations have to be taken into ac-
count also.
* * * *
Arising out of reports that some match-
boxes contain less than 56 matches, the
Prices Branch last week stated that out
of the Ijrd. a box charged for matches
more than half is represented by duty
and sales tax. The manufacturer received
less than a ha’penny a box.
* * * *
During the March quarter the rise in
the Australian cost of living was small.
Control of prices was mainly responsible,
including a ceiling placed on meat.
Seasonal influences were also in the pic-
ture ; potatoes and eggs were cheaper,
and a necessary rise in the price of butter
was circumvented by a subsidy, with
more of the same kind of thing in pros-
pect. Far greater use of price control and
subsidies is now contemplated ; as from
April 12 a prices ceiling operates on
everything except perishable and seasonal
goods. Senator Keane says the March
quarter was the first since the war in
which the cost of living showed a negli-
gible increase. Had it not been for a
“further slight rise in the cost of cloth-
ing the index would have actually fallen.”
The price of clothing has been the prin-
cipal factor in the rise in the cost of
living since the war started, but the rate
was checked between December and
March,
The Minister for Customs says that
contributing to this check was the con-
trol of prices of individual firms by de-
claration, “rigid enforcement of a fixed
money margin of profit rather than a per-
centage margin for distributors,” and the
actual reduction of profit margins for
some clothing manufacturers and dis-
tributors. The effect of these measures
was only now beginning to be felt, (The
fixed money margin of profit, which has
been the subject of considerable protest
on the ground, of its clumsiness, has
operated since April 15 last year.) Further
steps contemplated include ceiling prices
for woven woollen goods and knitted gar-
ments. Under the new prices stabilisa-
tion plan it is officially believed possible
to fix a basic price for the more important
imported materials, and attempts are
already being made to stabilise raw
cotton. Also, “arrangements are being
made for a greater standardisation and
simplification of clothing,” It has already
been found that standardisation does not
necessarily simplify or make more eco-
nomical the manufacture of clothing, and
the standard cloth introduced by Mr.
Dedman’s department was a failure. It
is to be hoped that lessons have been
learned in these matters. In future the
cost-of-living index will be a true guide
to war-time inflation only when the in-
direct cost to the consumer by way of taxa-
tion for subsidies is taken into account.
Guinea Airways is now making more
money out of Australian services than it
did in New Guinea. For the year to
February 28 the profit reported was
£14,180, compared with £13,945 in the
preceding year. Operations are now con-
fined to Australia. The co. does not ex-
pect settlement of its N.G. war-damage
claim until after the war.


Dunkirk Avenged.
THE SERVICE MAN
Ek Dum”: Because of a plan, an-
nounced by General Alexander, to “pre-
sent the right news to the public in the
most efficient way and in the shortest
possible time,” the Tunisian campaign has
not only been magnificent on the mili-
tary side but the best reported campaign
of the war. It has been possible to gain
from day to day an actual and clear
picture of results and of the enemy’s
reaction to them. The news has come out
of the battle quicker than in any cam-
paign in history, and it has been trust-
worthy whether good or bad.
Up to May 3 the position was that the
First Army in the centre, French detach-
ments before Pont du Fahs and the
Eighth Army on the east coast had
brought their offensives to a climactic
stage. The First Army lay across the
Medjez-Tebourba-Djedeida road. From
Tebourba a road goes north-west to
Ferryville and Bizerta via Mateur. At
Ferryville highway and rail pass between
the two guardian lakes and thence into
the environs of Bizerta.
North of the lakes French and Moroc-
can troops had taken up General Ander-
son’s torch after he had driven the enemy
within 30 miles or so of Bizerta. They
had covered half the remaining distance
to Bizerta and were almost within sight
of Ferryville, 11 miles away.
Between this French force and the
First Army the Second American Corps,
now commanded by Major-General
Bradley, which had been moved up
from Gafsa, in the south, had taken
over 20 miles of the line which General
Anderson had established across the Beja
road. In tough and mountainous coun-
try the Americans advanced a little,
though they had not succeeded in cap-
turing main enemy hill fortresses.
In the U.S. Salient
In their region the enemy was in a
precarious position. His forces, so to
speak, were in a shallow bag, of which
the mouth faced north-east, the main
content being the road junction of
Mateur, south of Lake Garaet-Ackhel.
Three forces were operating on this
bag. General Anderson’s left flank and
the right flank of the French and Moroc-
cans beyond Ferryville held the top
corners. The Americans were poking
heavily at the bottom of the bag, hoping
to make a hole in it.
Arnim —it was established through an
announcement by Goebbels that Rommel
had gone to Germany for good in March
—was obviously more afraid of the First
and Eighth Armies and their French centre
than of the others. He had cause to be,
since these were overwhelmingly the
greater forces and the more experienced
and battlewise and held three-fourths of
the attack perimeter.
Generals Anderson and Montgomery
and the Pont du Fahs French paused
when they reached the break of country
to the plains. They occupied four or
five days applying an elastic defence to
whirling enemy attacks which sometimes
moved them backwards temporarily and
cost both sides heavy casualties. But
their pause was a purposeful pne. They
were not moving against the last and
probably the strongest and crucial Axis
lines in the fight for the main and final
objectives without reconditioning, re-
armament and the necessary resting and
reinforcement of their man-power. And
as it turned out main communications
were being devoted to a decisive concen-
tration.
On May 3 the elastic defence had
ceased to be elastic. The slack which had
been allowed the enemy had been taken
up. Algiers Radio announced that Allied
troops had captured an important height
on the Medjez-Tebourba road. The First
Army was obviously on the move again.
Berlin mentioned the pressure along this
road and several infantry assaults by the
First Army, and showed great concern
at the movement.
Meanwhile, at the point where the
flanks of the French and the Americans
joined north of Lake Garaet-Ackhel, a
hill called label Hazemat had been cap-
tured by the combined forces at the
point of the bayonet. The sector was
mainly held by Italians —among 641
prisoners only 66 were Germans. The
joint French and American forces in this
region were now in command of the road
striking south-east along the plain west
and south of Lake Garaet-Ackhel. Along
this route they drove towards Mateur.
A slight advance by the Americans
poking the bottom of the Mateur bag
further s.-w. was reported—they were,
according to some correspondents, on the
slopes of Jebel el Foulina, 12 miles n.-w.
of Mateur. But the strong enemy de-
fences here were soon in imminent danger
of being cut olf by the French-American
advance from west of the lake.
The salient feature was that, through
the First Army’s advance on the s.-e.
and that of the Americans and French
beyond the lake, the Germans and Italians
in the Mateur area were getting deeper
into their bag; the bottleneck of their
communications at Ferryville between the
lakes was more imminently threatened.
Mateur Abandoned
General Anderson now the deci-
sive action in a series of British, Ameri-
can and French moves co-ordinated by
General Alexander. He threw heavy artil-
lery and other forces against the eastern
flank of the Germans in the Mateur
sector.
The German official communique on
May 3 read:
There were no important actions on the
Tunisian front yesterday. Our troops on
the northern sector and unknown to the
enemy moved to new and more favorable
positions. The town of Mateur was left
to the enemy without fighting.
The Algiers communique issued from
General Eisenhower’s H.Q. put a different
complexion on events:
After ten days’ relentless pressure and
much heavy fighting American troops forced
the enemy in the northern sector to evacu-
ate all his forward positions. The U.S.
Second Corps, in co-operation with the
French on the coastal sector, advanced
many miles and captured Mateur yester-
day morning. The advance continues.
Several hundred prisoners have already
been taken.
General Alexander in a special message
to the Americans expressed great satis-
faction that, after heavy fighting and a
15 miles’ advance, Mateur should have
fallen to them.
There had been a strong bombardment
before the American-French advance.
And the Americans reported fierce fight-
ing during their progress to Mateur, but
in view of the swiftness with which the
battle moved it must have been brief.
The front in the American and French-
American flank sector on the north on
May 3 was a full 15 miles forward from
its position on May 2, despite the fact
that much of the interval was represented
by rough and highly defendable country.
The enemy had not followed his usual
practice of intensively mining the coun-
try over which he was pursued. His state-
ment that he had abandoned Mateur
without fighting for it was true. He had
removed nearly all his war supplies and
equipment.
He also had given up his main road
and rail communication between Bizerta
and Tunis, now linked only by a single
highway east of Bizerta Lake.
Later events showed that he must have
known what was brewing for him,
German Version
The German official spokesman, Cap-
tain Sertorius, admitted that the German-
Italian area had been further constricted
by another withdrawal after that from
Mateur.
He expressed a certain grudging and
very chagrined admiration of the part
which General Anderson had played, and
admitted that the latter “had taken the
Germans by surprise in the Mateur area,
having secretly brought up considerable
reinforcements, particularly heavy guns,
to the left wing of the First Army, as a
result of which the Americans increased
their pressure and the Axis command was
compelled to decide on a planned with-
drawal.”
It was, in fact, an affair of linked hands
throughout the line in which the central
focus of pressure, felt continuously by the
enemy all along a 120-130-mile line, was
exerted by Aftderson and his superb col-
lection of English and Scottish regiments.
Following his withdrawal from the
Mateur bag the enemy fell back in the
small salient between the First and
Eighth Armies behind Pont du Fahs,
where the French and Senegalese of the
19th Corps had fought their way into
terrible and well-defended hill country.
They now swept across the Enfidaville
road to the northern edge of the Tebessa
mountains. Their patrols, crawling for-
ward a little, could see the white blotch
of Tunis, 35 miles or so to the north-
west, the harbor shining to its right, the
salt lake of Mrira nearer.
As their eyes moved again to the right
along a smear of coast beyond the palms
of Hammam-Lif and Soliman, well might
they have raised the cry of Xenophon’s
Ten Thousand: “The Sea! The Sea!”
But their gaze must have been quickly
distracted from the Bay of Tunis by a
sudden eruption of epochal events on
their left, where Generals Alexander,
Anderson and Montgomery were demon-
strating the handiwork which they had
contrived during the pause in their opera-
tions in the eastern part of the perimeter.
It became clear in one blazing and ex-
plosive moment why the Axis troops had
suddenly developed a burning desire to
leave the Mateur and Lake Garaet-
Ackhel region and reach a possible
concentration point with the greatest pos-
sible speed.
By the Shirt Front
The First Army had, before its pause,
been advancing down two valleys—from
Medjez-el-Bab down the River
towards Tebourba and, a little further
east, from Bou Arada down the straight
road towards Tunis via the town of Mas-
sicault, about 10 miles from the city.
After the breakdown of the Mateur
flank, a crisis came swiftly. The Ameri-
cans and French to the north-west had
become drovers hurrying the tail of
Arnim’s mob as it made swiftly eastward.
The enemy apparently had learned that a
blow was preparing on the British front
which would cut him in halves.
He could not withdraw forces from
the perimeter opposite the Eighth Army
and the Pont du Fahs section. The
Eighth Army and the French had
him by the shirt front there. His one
possible move was to fling all his corps
sideways to the west, to move them across
the rear of his eastern holding line in
the Pont du Fahs-coast area into the
Bon Peninsula ; then (if possible) to lock
the gate across the 25-mile base of the
peninsula against the Allies, long enough
to allow a forlorn-hope attempt at
evacuation.
Lateral movement of this sort is always
difficult. In its course the movers present
a perpetually exposed flank. In this case
it amounted to running the gauntlet of a
destructive power capable not only of
blotting out anything in the Axis army
which came within its reach, but of alter-
ing the shape of the landscape under it.
The scheme involved the abandonment
of Tunis and Bizerta, but neither was
worth a single Cape Bon hill shelter to
Arnim’s legions in their present plight.
What General Alexander had been doing
behind the British front, which swayed
backward and forward before Axis
counter-blows, was to draw such an
aggregation of artillery, armor, air-power
and infantry to the focal point of the
battle as had never before been seen on
so small a sector in the whole history of
war.
It was at a point at which a blow
struck at the right moment with sufficient
force and suddenness would splinter the
enemy’s strength and send pieces flying
in all directions like bits of a plate broken
by a hammer blow.
The Blow Falls
General Alexander had his hammer
prepared and lifted. He had drawn his
strength from all around him.
He had brought from the Eighth Army
the famous 7th Armored Division, includ-
ing the 11th Hussars and other armored
cavalry, veterans of every bit of war since
the days when they nipped across the
desert from Mekeila to the Tripoli road
and blocked the flight of General “Elec-
tric Whiskers” Berganzoli in General
Wavell’s first campaign. Also the 4th
Indian Brigade, veterans from First
Sidi Barrani in Dec., 1940, onwards —
the Indians were given the honor of
being the first to break through into the
Tunisian plain. He had packed tanks
track to track in a solid phalanx.
He had led up fresh reserves. And every
aerodrome was loaded down with serried
ranks of aircraft. The German Cap-
tain Sertorius said dismally that there
were 400 tanks and 2500 ’planes and guns
almost wheel to wheel. Over 400 guns,
as close as they could sit together,
pointed over the Massicault-Tebourba
sector.
General Montgomery kept up a heavy
fire to make the enemy believe that he
would attack.
The Jebel Akhouz, the high, rugged hill
dominating Tebourba and its roads and
the country beyond, was stormed by
First Army infantry. This dislocated the
Axis retreat communications with a ven-
geance. At the same time the First Army
suddenly launched its thunderstorm on
the small rectangle, about four miles
long and three-quarters of a mile deep,
between Tebourba and Massicault, the
heart of the enemy position and of his
communications.
The storm of shot and shell and bomb
literally ploughed up the whole surface
of the area. Resistance was completely
beaten down. While the Americans and
French raced, in the north, for Bizerta,
which was found in ruins and deserted,
the 11th Hussars and the Derby-
shire Yeomanry made a race of it for
Tunis, where they came in neck and
neck, with the Rifle Brigade close behind.
In Tunis and Bizerta
In Tunis there were some rearguards
to be turfed out. But the troops garri-
soning the greatest city in North Africa
had not expected to be captured in ad-
vance of Tebourba. Columns of black
smoke along the waterfront advertised
that dumps and warehouses were being
destroyed, or had been destroyed by the
incessant blasting of the R.A.F. The city
itself, unlike Bizerta, was almost intact.
The population gave its rescuers a real
French welcome; the enemy made little
resistance.
In the circumstances, the enemy had
not been unskilful in his last movements,
in which he was hampered by lack of
first-class mechanised infantry. He had
collected sufficient strength in the East
Coast - Pont du Fahs area to hold
back the Eighth Army and the French
19th Corps on the heights while his
columns from the north and west —or
such of them as could escape—made their
way towards the Bon Peninsula. It was
believed on May 10 that 50,000 were
there.
About 50,000 actually were captured
between May 7 and May 10, including
three divisional staffs.
The plight of the balance was hope-
less. Evacuation for Amim was incon-
ceivable in view of the size of his army
and the conditions under which it must
embark.
His force originally had consisted (in
Germans) of the 10th Heavy Panzer and
the 15th and 21st Panzer Divisions, the
90th Light and the 164th and 334th
(reserve) Divisions, a specialised (Mann-
teufel) and a Luftwaffe Service and Flak
(Hermann Goring) Division, apart from
six Italian divisions and a German labor
division. Large remnants were scattered
oyer the 1500 square miles of swamp,
hill and lakeside between Tunis and
Bizerta. Some were hiding in the hills.
Some were sunk in the barges and boats
in which they attempted escape.
A large section formed the swiftly-
caving wall which would have to give
way before the Eighth and French armies
and which would be in serious danger of
falling right into the lap of overwhelming
British-French forces as it dropped off
the ranges. The holding line opposed to
General Montgomery and the eastern
French began to crash in the centre and
on the menaced left flank as Tunis fell.
Whatever of the Axis Army survived
and could act cohesively was completely
dominated from the air, unable to supply
or reinforce itself, being almost without
aerodromes. No German or Italian ’plane
was in the air.
Cape Bon Peninsula nominally was a
good position to defend —a 60-mile neck
of land 25 miles wide at its base, with
a backbone of hills up to 2000 ft. high.
But this could be only a temporary lair
once the hunt was up, since Britain was
in command of the sea and the Allies of
the air. Before the harried and defeated
army was properly on the peninsula the
Navy was bombarding its shore positions.
The Sicilian Channel, despite bad weather,
was under constant and active surveil-
lance. Palermo and other supply ports
were being bombed.
A Fateful Month
May 9-10 has in the present war pro-
vided something fresh and startling every
year. In 1940 it was the invasion of
France and the Lowlands ; in 1941 the
breaking-off of the Battle for Britain and
the flight of Rudolph Hess; in 1942 the
Coral Sea finale and the turn of the
tide against the Russians in the Battle
of Kharkov.
On May 10 it was exactly 200 days
since General Montgomery had struck
at El Alamein. His army had moved
forward its men —greater in number than
the population of peace-time Newcastle
(N.S.W.) —with all their guns, ’planes,
vehicles, hospital equipment, fighting
paraphernalia and food and water sys-
tems an average of eight miles a day
since October 23, 1942, fighting as well
in that time a dozen battles, four of them
major engagements. A record untouched
in history.
A Hot Time for Italy-
Some former critics turned enthusiasts
saw Western Europe invaded before
next Sunday by millions of Anglo-Ameri-
can troops.
That point has not yet been reached.
There are some big things to be done in
sea transport before armies sufficient to
do anything decisive can be landed in
the right places.
But the results are enormous in a way
which does not yet seem to have attracted
the attention of the experts. Some of the
island parts of Mussolini’s actual Euro-
pean empire—those of the Sicilian Chan-
nel, including the great volcanic peak ot
Pantellaria (which breeds the best don-
keys in Europe) —are in imminent danger


Sffyyte/td soi/al ffiujUe t/hm
of occupation. The prospects of Sar-
dinia are not rosy.
But the greatest result which has been
achieved by the conquest of Tunisia is
that it paves the way at once for the
complete aerial domination of Western
Europe from north and south.
It gives Britain a naval base or bases
right at Italy’s front door. It brings aero-
dromes which can be used, without the
distraction of local battles, against south-
ern Italy over less distances than have
to be flown from Britain to the nearest
German cities.
Cologne, closest of major German tar-
gets, is about 300 miles from English soil.
In Italy, everything from Naples south-
wards is as near as that to Cape Bon.
No part of Sicily is more than 200 miles
from either Tunisia or Malta ; no part
of Italy that matters much is as far away
from Tunis as Berlin from London.
Raids in the North.
“Ek D.”: Most of the aerial opera-
tions of the past few days have been re-
connaissance, with some strafing of Timor
and major New Guinea ports.
On May 6 G.H.Q. reported a heavy
raid on Wewak and on shipping near
Kairiru Island, when a 5000-ton ship, hit
several times, was left listing and on fire.
Large explosions and fires started in the
town, and two ships were believed to
have been damaged near the jetties.
Wewak is now strongly defended. Heavy
ack-ack fire was encountered and a num-
ber of fighters were driven off. One was
damaged. All Allied machines returned
safe.
On May 7 and 8 a heavy force of
Liberators and Fortresses, escorted by
Lightnings which were venturing further
from bases than in any other previous
attack, started several fires at Madang
during four raids. A small transport
crammed with troops was sunk and an-
other ship left on fire. All ’planes re-
turned safe.
Of 13 fighters which intercepted on
Saturday one was shot down and two
damaged. Another was destroyed on the
ground.
On May 6 R.A.A.F. Beaus attacked a
base at the mouth of the Maikoor River
in the Arus. In ten minutes they wrecked
dumps and storehouses and sank three
float ’planes, destroying six others on
the beach. The same day U.S. Libera-
tors dropped 40 5001 b. pills on Mano-
kwari (D.N.G.).
The patrols in the awful Komiatum
trail country have occupied the small
village of Bobdubi on the Francisco
River, four miles by air from Salamaua.
Unluckily, four miles by air is a long
way in this country, which is full of rush-
ing torrents and giant gorges, and in which
the landscape has the appearance of hav-
ing been deposited in untidy slabs at the
Creation, and then submerged by Noah’s
deluge. If it is bad for the Australians,
and if it rains on them nearly every day,
as it does, it is worse for the enemy, who
is mainly on wetter ground. One ambush
in which a small enemy force was caught
near Komiatum (10 miles or so from
Salamaua) last week cost it dearly.
There seems to be no immediate likeli-
hood of a move against Salamaua in
force.
According to official figures 90,000-odd
tons of enemy shipping were destroyed
or seriously damaged in April by Allied
bombers, as well as 26 out of 60 aero-
planes wiped out. Ships sunk included
a heavy cruiser, a light cruiser and a
submarine, apart from four destroyers
and two transports.
Spitfires at Darwin.
“Ek Dum”; The effect on the public
mind of stories of the combat be-
tween Spitfires and Jap bombers and “O”
fighters at Darwin on May 2 was a study
well worth the attention of those who
deal in public morale.
All too belatedly it was explained that
the looses were caused largely by a head-
wind which caught our fighters far out
to sea after they had broken off combat,
resulting in some of them being unable to
reach land through lack of petrol. In
actual combat the Spitfires inflicted much
heavier damage on the enemy than the
enemy inflicted on them.
No machine in the world except the
Hurricane can claim to approach the
vast number of kills achieved by the Spit-
fire.
It was designed to meet and instantly
destroy by gunpower, speed and
manoeuvrability any type of machine
which the enemy might be expected to
bring against it. It is meant to make
high ceiling quickly, to swoop quickly,
apply a devastating fighting power
quickly and to have the fight over before
the attacker can achieve its objectives
against ground positions. It carries the
maximum weight, throws the maximum
destruction per second consistent with
its high speed, ceiling and manoeuvra-
bility.
It is a trap for fast-rising enemy fighters
that stream suddenly off a ’drome 50 or
60 miles away. It cannot afford to wait
in the air for an enemy or delay in the
air. It is a pouncing sudden death, and
is not made to fight in wide spaces.
The conditions under which the Spit-
fire pilots operate at Darwin are such as
call for the greatest courage, the stoutest
of hearts. The job is not —alone —strictly
a Spitfire job. Nowhere else on any
front is the Spitfire called on to attack
and pursue the enemy over parts of an
ocean 400 miles wide at its narrowest
and providing the widest possible latitude
in direction of approach.
Because of the nature of the ap-
proaches, the ’plane must take the air
when warnings come in often many
minutes before the enemy appears. It
cannot go a long distance to meet and
turn back an enemy. It cannot concen-
trate on the single job of a concerted
attack on fighters probably as numerous
as its own formations and bombers at
the same time. If it tackles the bombers,
it soon has three jobs on its hands. It
must carry the treble and contrasting re-
sponsibilities of ( a ) preventing the enemy
bombers from reaching their objective
and destroying the life and installations
which they primarily have been sent to
wipe out of existence, ( b ) fighting the
diversionary fighters which have been sent
to guard the bombers, (c) pursuing the
retreating enemy to the last ounce of
petrol as he tries to race away across the
Timor Sea.
The Darwin Wind
This last part of the job is complicated
and dangerous. The seasonal wind at this
time of year begins to blow from the
south with such a magnetic accuracy that
a compass can be set in the Territory
from the direction of a giant ant-bed’s
edges and the inclination of the timber.
The flier making northward across the
sea has this wind with him, and in the
course of the fight, working by time, may
find himself much further from dry land
than he expected to be. Then, turning
for home, he suddenly finds himself driv-
ing head on into a wind which on the
ground is often strong enough to make a
loaded car skid with its force.
These were the influences and causes
which resulted in last week’s storm-in-a-
teacup over Darwin losses. Actually the
losses in the actual fight were much to
the advantage of the Spitfires.
So long as short-distance machines are
compelled—and in limited numbers —to
tackle jobs of this sort, so long must de-
ficiencies be paid for in priceless
machines and lives —three brave young
pilots lost theirs in this —so long will
there be heavy risks to be run.
Tojo's Threat and Subs.
“Ek Dum”: General Tojo at Manila
on May 6:
Japan is ready to strike the coup de
grace at our enemies. Britain and America
will be so crushed by the blow that they
will no longer be able to intervene in East
Asian affairs.
Chungking prophesied a full-scale
enemy offensive against China, this at a
moment when a new enemy drive, aimed
at destroying precious rice crops, had
begun below the Yangtze Kiang,
Apart from this activity there was a
deadly restlessness all round the Japanese
offensive perimeter; but there was no
evidence on which anything better than
a guess could be made.
“S. M. Herald’s” able Washington cor-
respondent, A. D. Rothman, declares as
a good guess that the Japanese bases in
the Aleutians will be subjected to full-
scale assault, and that action in the South-
west Pacific or soon afterwards cannot
be ruled out.
Must Be Naval
One thing is certain ; an enemy blow
would have to be naval; and knowledge
of his naval strength is small. What there
is is not reassuring. There are better-
than-rumors of battleships with larger
than 16-inch guns. The cruiser guns which
smashed our ships in the Java Sea battle
staggered naval authorities by their effec-
tive range—2B,ooo yards—and their accu-
racy. Their ammunition was excellent.
Where the Japanese Navy failed in the
Midway and Coral Sea and Solomon
Island and Bismarck Sea battles it was
through its omission to provide suffi-
cient or efficient protection against air
attack. But, as with anti-tank protection,
the technique of dealing with aircraft
operating against naval squadrons is con-
stantly improving.
U-boats Off Australia
Finally, there is the submarine, and it
is not mere guesswork that the sneaking
and deadly weapon which the enemy
appears to possess in abundance, size and
quality is an ingredient in any major plan,
and that the campaign being carried
out at the very front doors of Australia’s
naval bases and major ports is a prelimi-
nary to larger and wider action.
On May 7 it was announced that five
Allied freighters had been sunk in
eastern waters in recent weeks —one large
and two small freighters, one medium-
sized American ship and one small Nor-
wegian freighter.
In one small Australian ship torpedoed
in a heavy sea, many members of the
complement were trapped when the vessel
went down or lost afterwards. The sur-
vivors were rescued by a naval ship after
hours in the water. Of the officers,
only the third mate and third engineer
survived.
Survivors from another vessel, after
six hours, were rescued by a fisherman
who was guided to them by a ’plane.
The ship had been almost blown to bits.
Still another Australian crew was
rescued by the Navy. Their ship was
torpedoed at shortly after midnight, when
most of the crew were asleep. She
listed so much immediately that it was
impossible to stand on the deck, but she
took hours to sink, and the master, second
mate and four of the crew remained with
her till she went down. Survivors were
on rafts or in the water from 15 minutes
to eight hours.
The Norwegian was sunk by a torpedo
fired from a submerged submarine, and
went down at once, but most of the men
clung to a lifeboat and were saved. From
the U.S. freighter the whole complement
was saved after 12 hours in lifeboats.
General MacArthur’s communique de-
clared that “our shipping continues to
operate in virtually undiminished volume
under protection of our naval and air-
craft units.”
Tokyo Radio on May 4 issued an
official claim that 50,000 tons of shipping
had been sunk off the Australian coast
in nine days. This was denied by the
U.S. Secretary for the Navy, and the
Allied Pacific loss for March-April was
placed at 20,000 tons.
And it has not all been on one side.
A U.S. Navy communique on May 4
claimed the sinking of two destroyers, a
medium-sized tanker, a medium-sized
cargo vessel, a supply ship and a trans-
port, besides damage to other vessels.
The Japanese submarine menace can-
not be underrated. The ships used are
large, armed with 5.5 guns, equipped
with reconnaissance ’planes in many
cases. They are fast and long range and
are quite capable of taking care of any
war vessel smaller than a destroyer.
Spring Conies in Russia.
“Ek Dum”: News from Russia is apt
to be vague and confusing, but there is
enough of it to show that the main cam-
paign is on the brink of beginning. Last
year it began on May 4 with the blow
which gained the Kerch Peninsula for
the enemy, along with a large number
of prisoners, and continued with the
battle of Kharkov, which ended badly
for the Russians, near the end of the
month.
The first signs of spring in Russia this
year were a Russian offensive in the
Kuban, but, in view of the conflicting
nature of the weather reports and of the
manner in which the description of new
lines compare with old, it is difficult to
say what real advances are being made
and how much of the country gained is
waterlogged. Certainly, the Russians
seem to have moved closer to Novoros-
sisk from a new angle and to have
gained ground north of the Kuban near
the Sea of Azov, They are about 50
miles from Kerch Strait. They claimed
to have killed 20,000 Axis troops and
destroyed 600 ’planes in five weeks.
Small Russian landings were made at the
base of the Temryk Peninsula east of
Kerch Strait.
In the extreme west of the sector south
of Lake Ilmen, Moscow reported that a
set of fortified positions had been taken
s.-w. of Velikiye Luki —positions which
had taken the Germans six months to
fortify. The enemy seems to have given
up this ground very easily.
The most important activity on the
eastern front seems to have been in the
air, Moscow has mentioned numerous
solid attacks against enemy rail junc-
tions, roads, bases and depots, some of
them 200 miles behind the German lines.
The Rumanian port of Constanza was
bombed. These are unaccustomed opera-
tions, and even more unaccustomed is
the announcement that British and U.S.
’planes and tanks and other material were
being used on a considerable scale,
though it was remarked that these
resources were “small” compared with
what the Russian factories themselves
had provided.
This is very difficult to believe if full
use is being made of British-American
aid, having regard to winter wastage and
the proportion of Russian material
resources in enemy hands.
In brief:
Uncle Sam has had cruel luck with generals
in the present war. Last week, shortly after it
had been announced that Lieut .-General
McNair had been wounded in Tunisia, Lieut.-
General Andrews, G.O.C. of all American
forces in Europe, was killed in an aeroplane
crash with 12 other officers, including Brigadier
General Charles Barth, C.O.S. Iceland. Lieut.-
General Jacob Devers —who only three years
ago was a colonel —succeeds him.
♦ * ♦ ♦
American air units made several raids every
day on islands in the Aleutians. It has been
announced that Amchitka, 72 miles from
Kiska, was occupied in January.
* * * *
It was revealed last week that Russell Island
was occupied by U.S. forces in February with-
out opposition. The island is slightly to the
south of New Georgia in the Solomons.
* * * *
What was described as “the biggest Allied
bombing force to operate in the Far East,”
using Liberators and Mitchells, demolished the
Jap training base on Hainan Island and dam-
aged a cement factory and a dry dock at
Haiphong, port of Hanoi.
♦ * * *
A further slight withdrawal in the Mayu
area, alter Jap forces had cut Myingdaw-
Buthidaung communications, brought the Brit-
ish-lndian expeditionary force virtually back
to the point trom which it started last Decem-
ber. Activity in Burma otherwise was con-
fined to widespread air-raiding.
* * * *
Istanbul reported last week that the Ger-
mans had landed tro’ops and materials on
Rhodes, off the coast of Asia Minor. There
were further reports of growing enemy troop
concentrations in the Balkans. During the
week-end various European radios reported
that Greece had been sealed off from the
world, and Anxara had to deny a rumor —
German-inspired, apparently — that Turkey
had declaied war on the Axis.
# * * *
The R.A.F.’s biggest raid last week (May 4)
was on Dortmund —normal population about
54U,0UO —20 miles east of Essen. Weight of
bombs was the greatest ever dropped on a
German city in a single raid, and part of the
city was left a glowing desert by a rain of
4000-pounders every minute for nearly an hour,
continued with 8000 “block-busters” and tens
of thousands of incendiaries. Thirty bombers
were lost. U.S. ’planes raided Antwerp. The
U.S. bombing effort in Northern Europe is still
far from its zenith —against the R.A.F. maxi-
mum of 1500 ’planes fewer than 120 were
used in Uncle Sam’s biggest operation. And
Fortresses and Liberators do not carry the load
of the Stirlings and Lancasters.
♦ * * «
R.A.F. (British Command) machine losses
for April were 336 aircralt over Europe, none
over Britain.
* * * ♦
Rome Radio has given its version of casual-
ties since June 10, 1940: — Balkans: 22,728
men killed, 49,825 wounded. Africa: 15,226
men killed, 23,588 wounded. Eastern Front:
667 men killed, 36,303 wounded. Totals:
46,693 men killed and 113,735 wounded. Ap-
parently, about five Italians are counted
as one and the captured are written off as a
bad debt.
« * * *
The Germans claimed the sinking of only
415,500 tons of merchant shipping in April
as compared with 851,000 tons in March. The
claim, said in London to be in any case grossly
exaggerated, is less than the total claimed for
April, 1942, by 170,000 tons. Berlin Radio un-
easily blamed the weather.


How to make Gillette Blades last longer ...
TO
ft'*//' '• "•
m
7Z
Hold the Blade
at the ends...
.. rinse carefully... dry
on a smooth towel . . .
Never leave your blades in a steamy atmosphere. The
microscopic beginnings of rust on that fine edge will
rob you of many a good shave. You can double the
life of every Gillette Blade by exercising care.
TAKE CARE OF YOUR
Gi ffi? m 1?
1 JLj JLj JEj 1 JL JCi
BLADES
Turn your pounds into planes with War Loan Bonds
Missing Friends.
MacFARLANE, Charles or Kathleen, for-
merly of Cooleen Street, Blakehurst, N.S.W.,
please communicate with COWLEY & ALLEN,
70 King Street, Sydney.
Divorce Notices.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES—In Divorce.
TO MARY ELLEN KEARNEY late of 61
Albion Street Sydney—TAKE NOTICE that
JOHN KEARNEY has filed a petition for
Divorce No. 1059 of 1943 on the ground of
desertion without just cause or excuse for three
years and upwards If you wish to defend you
may enter an appearance on or before the
Thirtieth day of June 1943 and obtain a copy
of the petition without charge from C. JOLLIE
SMITH & CO. Solicitors 185 Elizabeth Street
SYDNEY.—(L.s.) C. K. BODY, Registrar in
Divorce.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES—In Divorce.
TO HENRY GEORGE RADFORD late of
Lismore Painter and Decorator. —TAKE
NOTICE that ELEICE ELIZA RADFORD
has filed a Petition for Divorce No. 398 of
1943 on the ground of desertion. If you wish
to defend the suit you should enter an appear-
ance at the Divorce Office Supreme Court
King Street Sydney by the 30th June 1943 and
obtain a copy of the petition without charge
from OSBORNE MITCHELL ALLEN Soli-
citor 56 Hunter Street Sydney.— (l.s.) C. K.
BODY, Registrar.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES—In Divorce.
TO RALPH JOHN CLEMENT DAVIES.-
TAKE NOTICE that ENA DAVIES has filed
a Petition for Divorce No. 638 of 1943 on the
ground of desertion without just cause or ex-
cuse for three years and upwards If you wish
to defend you may enter an appearance on or
before the Thirtieth day of June One thousand
nine hundred and forty-three and obtain a copy
of the petition without charge from MR.
J. M. HOUSTON Solicitor of Prudential
Building 39-49 Martin Place Sydney.— (l.s.)
C. K. BODY, Registrar in Divorce.
HOTEL METROPOLE
Bent, Phillip and Young Streets, Sydney.
tm
Mill*
111
11
111
li
m
Modern high-ch'ss accommodation
at a moderate tariff. Hot and cold
water and telephone in all rooms.
Rooms with private Bathrooms
available. Meals at moderate rates —
unexcelled cuisine—Dining Rooms,
Grill Room, Banquet Room and
Wintergarden, together with a first-
class orchestra.
ROOMS-ONLY RATES.
Single Rooms from If- per night
Double Rooms from 13/- per night
Telegrams, Cables and Wireless:
“METROPOLE,” Sydney.
Telephones; 8W2061 (9 lines)
86363 (4 lines)
SPORTING NOTIONS
(Conducted by "PILOT")
Canterbury on Saturday did not draw
as big an attendance as the previous
meeting on the track, but the totalisator’s
growth in favor again was emphasised
by record figures, £42,020 ss.
Young Valais gave himself an advan-
tage when he caused the field to scrim-
mage at the first turn, but probably he
would have won the Turf Club Flying
anyway. Faerie Queene looked a danger
when she ran up second near the turn,
but Young Valais sprinted away again.
Only small, Young Valais is nattily-built
and Hoes best when lightly-weighted.
Faerie Queene finished a close fourth
after being left at the post in the Don-
caster, but, like many other horses in
similar circumstances, she shaped worse
when everything favored her. War Effort
ran on gamely to finish second, and is a
useful horse in suburban company, and
Magi maintained her consistency and im-
provement by a good third. Young
Valais’s stablemate Dewar was backed
unexpectedly. Planning a sprint win with
him seemed a little ambitious, but the
stable confidence suggests he is well for
distance races in the next month or two.
Early this season Urgent Rate sprinted
as fast as most two-year-olds in
Sydney, but she developed a nervous dis-
order and had to be spelled. Returned
to training recently, the filly gained a win-
ning lead at the turn in the Nursery, and
was not a loser at any part of the last
two furlongs. By Marconigram from
Ash Queen, Urgent Rate’ is the first win-
ner owned by J. Coughlan, who gave
lOOgns. for her at the 1942 yearling sales
in Sydney. Craglia (second) was a 120gns.
yearling, and Craigie (third), by Chatham
from Grosvenor Maid, cost only 90gns.
Craigie gained considerable ground in the
straight, and, as he has had little race ex-
perience, he may be worth following.
Sir Neith’s favoritism for the Ashbury
Handicap was justified by his close third
(dead heat) in the Final Handicap at
Randwick on Sydney Cup day, but he
won only narrowly from Rimveil. Sir
Neith is one of the first Pentheus
horses to run beyond a sprint distance,
and, transport permitting, he will go
north for the Newcastle Cup on May 29.
Sir Neith looked like winning easily
when he raced to Rimveil inside the last
furlong, but Rimveil hung on gamely. A
change of stables seems to have benefited
Rimveil, who was always one of the two
leaders. Windbrook, best backed against
Sir Neith, needs plenty of galloping
room and was unsuited by the big field.
AH Love was not disgraced by her
second with 10.7 to Marcoperi in the
first High weight division, but she is not
as good as two years ago. She took too
long to lead very moderate sprinters, and
then, when she had a winning advantage
in the straight, she fought only for a few
strides when Marcoperi ran to her.
Marcoperi might have been a public fancy
had she been ridden by a fashionable
jockey, but backers shied off apprentice
E. Swinton, who had had only seven
mounts previously and had not ridden a
winner. Third place went to War Spear,
but his form was unimpressive.
A furlong from home in the second
Highweight division, Bangster appeared to
be holding Milanja. Bangster, however,
is only slightly built, and his lOst. stopped
him close to the post. Milanja was to
have been ridden by K. Ashman, but
that boy was injured in a fall earlier in
the day, and T. Webster secured the
mount. Webster had not ridden a winner
for over a year, but few jockeys in Aus-
tralia have a better seat and hands, and
perhaps his chances will improve now.
No matter how efficient a rider may be,
owners and trainers do not want him if
he is not winning races.
Cable Boy always has shown his best
form at Canterbury, so his Canterbury
Handicap win was not totally unexpected,
although he started at 12 to 1, Excuses
would have been possible had he been
beaten, for he covered a lot of extra
ground, but probably he was lucky to
beat Shining Night. Shining Night was
forced into a hopeless pocket when the
favorite, Moondarewa, made his run from
the half-mile, and, despairing of getting
a run, O’Sullivan had to ease Shining
Night back and pull to the outside in the
straight. Fearless Fox also finished well
to run third, but Moondarewa ran a one-
paced race throughout and apparently is
only a moderate. After the race he was
bleeding from a hock wound where an-
other horse had galloped on him, but the
injury was not serious enough to have
affected his chance. Cable Boy is trained
by W. Kelso, to whom he was presented
some time ago by his former owner, Mr.
A. G. Potter.
* * * *
Jack Holt, content these days with a
small team, landed a double with Moon-
ray (imp.) and Distinction at Mentone
on Saturday. Moonray’s success in the
second Powerscourt Handicap was his first
in Australia. Sent out to be raced here
by the late Duke of Kent, he was sold
to Mrs. L. R. Buxton. He had been an
expensive proposition before Saturday,
but, judged by defeat of Cloudy Bay and
Scarlet Toi, may be about to reproduce
something like his good English form.
He is an aged gelding by Sandwich from
Nan, but has not been overraced and
has dropped considerably in the weights.
Big money was won over Distinction
in the Tinamba Stakes. He firmed from
sevens to fives, and, after running wide
on the turn, battled on gamely to win by
half a head from Vale, with Orteli third.
Tea Cake, fourth, may do better at his
next start, and little notice can be taken
of the failure of the favorite, Wheat
Sheaf. A slow start settled her chance.
Both Holt’s winners were ridden by
15-year-old apprentice W, Caldow, con-
sidered one of the most promising young
riders seen in years. He has made the
most of his opportunities since winning
on the tote record-breaker, Solstar, at
Flemington, and has the remarkable
record of four wins from eight mounts.
Weighing about 7.2, Caldow hails from
Narrandera (N.S.W.), and was a success-
ful show-ring rider before being appren-
ticed to A. R. Sinclair.
F. Hoysted celebrated his birthday by
winning a double with Star Valley and
Twovals. Star Valley, a filly by Mani-
toba from Red Dame, started at 8 to 1,
no doubt because ridden by apprentice
T. Hoppo, who had not previously
brought home a winner. W. V. and J. O.
Manton have won good races with Sun
Valley and Blue Valley, and Star Valley
looks like being a useful addition to the
“Valley” line. She is not a big filly, but
has been raced only lightly and should
improve.
Twovals justified heavy backing for
the Stratford Handicap for three-year-
olds. She won easily from Busybody and
Nalong, and more will be heard of this
ex-Riverina performer, whose only previ-
ous win had been in maiden company at
Albury. Legality, equal favorite with
Twovals, had her chance settled by inter-
ference near the half-mile. .
Celeris, whose best previous form
had been shown in sprint races,
revealed improved stamina in the first
Powerscourt Handicap. In winning
narrowly from Stonecastle and Cloud-
less, she recorded her first success for
over two years. Celeris was bred by her
owner-trainer, J. Bond, one-time amateur
rider in S.A. Two young sisters to
Celeris are running at Bond’s stud farm.
Gay Invader justified favoritism for the
Boisdale Hurdle. Jumping much better
than at his only previous attempt over
hurdles, he won well enough to suggest
that he might develop into a National
proposition.
American stallion Man o’ War, who
was retired from the stud this year at
the age of 26, sired winners of $3,007,967
(approximately £915,000). •
Miscellaneous.
Most of Melbourne’s football followers
picked the Essendon-South Melbourne
match at Essendon as best opening game
of the season, and the 20,000 who
attended got their money’s worth, a good
old free-for-all developing in the last
quarter. The ’Dons won by 18.9 to
13.14. Richmond-Carlton drew the next
best crowd ; Carlton gave the Tigers a
lacing, 17.13 to 8.23. The other three
matches, though comparatively neglected,
were the best to watch. Fitzroy, 15.9,
beat Melbourne, 14.12; Collingwood,
6.22, beat North Melbourne, 7.12 ; and
Hawthorn got a two-point win over St.
Kilda, 13.17 to 14.9.
* * * *
Though the Rugby Union is still los-
ing backs to the League —and they seem
to be the smartest that pro. concern has
got —it has any number of capable young-
sters coming on, and the football thus
far seen has been excellent. Manly scored
its third win on Saturday—l 9-7 against
West. It is the only unbeaten side.
Other matches:
’Varsity 14, Gordon 12; East 23, St.
George 8; Drummoyne 14, North 3; Rand-
wick 21, Parramatta 12.
* * * *
The show put on at Leichhardt,
Sydney, by Bill Fadden and Tommy
Colteaux, two regular performers there,
was tedious. Colteaux did some butting
and some socking after “corners,” and
he was cautioned for landing a low
punch. Fadden was the better boxer, but
was too fat. Claimed to have suffered a
wrist fracture, he “retired” in the fifth.
Petersen v. Young Day at the Sydney
Stadium was soon over. Petersen, a
Queensland welter, outboxed Day in the
first round, and the Sydneysider was
twice cautioned for holding and hitting
in the second. In the third. Day was
slugged or roughed to the mat. Pulling
himself up by grabbing a Petersen leg, he
flung both fists at his opponent and threw
him through the ropes, following him
out. Returned to the ring they started a
bar-room brawl, and were still at it, with
seconds and spectators (one a woman)
interfering, when Joe Wallis was observed
to be on his way home. “No contest.”
FOR VICTORIA PARK.
(Before acceptances.)
(At Randwick.)
Novice Handicap: Twofold, 1 ;
Bomb, 2 ; Lance, 3.
Nursery Handicap: Fine Art, 1 ;
Chinook, 2 ; Haddon Hall, 3.
Zetland Stakes; Hesione, 1 ;
Magi, 2 ; Winnipeg, 3.
Three-year-old Handicap; Hau-
teur, 1; War Effort, 2; Nobleman,
3.
Turf Club Handicap: Shining
Night, 1 ; Fearless Fox, 2; Eureka,
3.
Juvenile Handicap: Ajixa or
Urgent Rate, 1 ; Craglia, 2;
Crumble, 3.
Welter Handicap; Merrimba, 1;
Response, 2; Pinero, 3.


Women's Letters
From Melbourne
For the worker who has to cook
dinner, one of life’s major difficulties is
getting the shopping done in the rushed
moments at midday or after the day’s
work. The thing is made more try-
ing by the fact that meat can’t be
bought in the city proper and that it is
easy to forget to bring the shopping-bag.
Several stores are helping the weak of
memory by selling large paper shopping-
bags, and on Friday the needs of women
workers were harnessed to a drive for
patriotic funds. The war-worker-cum-
cook’s friend in this case was the St.
Vincent’s Hospital Auxiliary, which sold
the week-end joint and vegetables, with
jam and pickles for that cold Sunday tea,
neatly packed in a reliable bag. Those
who bought them loudly prayed that the
idea of doing this weekly might occur
to someone.
Those who know intimately the work
of looking after the service man’s inter-
ests agree that care of his dependants is
as important as any other comfort that
can be given him. The A.I.F. Women’s
Association has made the A.I.F. man’s
wife and family its care —the association
is made up of wives and mothers, so it’s
a case of mutual help. The latest of the
association’s projects is a holiday house
by the seaside to which widows and
families of dead soldiers will have first
claim. Children will be with their par-
ents, it is hoped, so that the house can
be run without the difficulties of organ-
isation necessary for unaccompanied
children. Plans are being held up at the
moment by a hunt for a suitable house,
but the committee is hoping that it won’t
have to wait long for a response to its
appeal for a home.
The cast of “White Horse Inn” hopped
into a real trooper’s transport on Tues-
day to be taken out to St, John’s Hall,
Heidelberg, to entertain sick troops.
The show included Ethel Gabriel and
Georgie Stirling in “Cat’s Cradle” and
a rollicking foursome of Sam Stern, Les
King, Ethel Gabriel and Madge Aubrey
rendering ‘Sweet Smell of Old Brewery,”
which was a great hit with the boys.
The affair was arranged by Mrs. Esmond
Lillies, publicity secretary.
Street stalls are becoming an institution
—an “every Friday” one, anyway. Stall-
sellers remark, too, that they’re building
up a regular clientele. The same shoppers
drop in every week to stock up with
groceries, cakes and home-made jam or
whatever the stall Sells, and buyers and
sellers are getting to know one another
almost as if they were Mr. Jones, the
corner grocer, and Mrs. Smith, who’s
lived in the street for years. It’s being
suggested by some who have ideas about
a Brighter Melbourne that the stall idea
should be allowed to survive the war—
not, of course, in the present rather mad-
dening way, which blocks the street, but
m little nooks where nicely glamored-up
little booths could make a kind of cen-
tral city market. Returned soldiers, of
course, are strong for the stall idea, and
the Town Hall block is considerably
brighter for their flower booths along its
walls.
The notice “no coupons needed” pre-
fixing any patriotic fund-raising sale
advertisement guarantees a crowd of
buyers, who as likely as not will be rag-
ing at the doors before things are
properly arranged on stalls, and rushing
in to buy with the velocity of a tidal
wave. Promoters of the Gentlewomen’s
Aid sale, usually a very quiet little affair
to which grandma always goes but which
makes hardly a ripple on the general-
public mind, discovered the lure of the
couponless with considerable surprise.
Buyers descended on the sale like locusts
on a. wheat crop, and only a hurried
pushing together of the few articles still
unsold enabled the sale opener, the
Royle lady, to declare anything open. The
gentlewomen, far from being pleased,
are simply appalled. Next year’s sale,
they say, will take place unheralded in
some unget-at-able country lane. Those
who do the beautiful sewing on sale
appreciated grandma’s “Ah, how beauti-
ful! ’ far more than willingness to buy
anything.
Saturday saw the Symphony Orchestra
starting off at 8 p.m. as in the old days
before the blackout. The Town Hall is
central enough to be reached from any-
where with the minimum of difficulty,
and citizens are sufficiently accustomed
to darkened streets, absence of the family
car and overcrowded trams to account
them nothing to stand in the way of an
evening s music. No one seems to
have really preferred daylight concerts,
especially as being shut indoors during
l u I?^ er , a^ternoons , was no fun for busy
(and most people are busy nowadays),
wlO nd ** h ardto ? et ei | ou Bh sunshine
an y wa y* As to dressing, short frocks are
now pretty general. Otherwise symphony
audie f C£ V> are about the same as they
to be *
Chinese fantasy “Lady Precious
M rea m went over very well when
p a y. to a well-filled Town Hall. Last
was revived at the Um.’s Union
, heatre r ( whlch catches a rather different
type °i aud lf n ce) and proved just as
+ successful - Costumes of the rich ballet
type are part the attractlon : and . the
tra . n Be atmosphere of the piece is a
tom f to , th ose weary of the talkative
™ ode £? play „ £*ext move was to Heidel-
berg T ™ n - Hall J° r a n,ght * ne u W de '
pa * Ure f thlS ’ W^ lcb suggests the begin-
nmg of an out-of-town theatre move-
ment. There’s evidence that the farther-
away suburbs have big potential audi-
enc®s of people who can’t or don’t want
to travel into the city at night for a
show, but who would support a local
"° n
. Mamed on Tuesday, Philhppa .Plottel
'° Corporal Rolf Hallenstein. Philhppa,
here Pictured, graduated in law and was
recently admitted to practice. Lately
she’s been with a Melbourne legal firm.
Daughter of Mr. and Mrs. J. Plottel, she
is the second generation of the family to
be represented at Melbourne Uni., as
father is an architect and her mother.
Dr. Ray Gross before her marriage, is
one of this country’s pioneer medical
women. Part of the years of Phillippa’s
course were spent in Janet Clarke Hall.
Corp. Hallenstein is the son of the late
Harold Hallenstein and Mrs. Hallen-
stein, of London.
Chinese famine relief is a cause that
this city feels very sympathetic about,
and citizens have always shown willing-
ness to put the hand in the pocket when
appeals are made on that score. With
a lot of well-known hostesses and active
fund-raisers on its committee the Famine
Relief Ball, officially an at-home at
Ripponlea, residence of Mr. and Mrs.
“Tim” Jones, should be a success both
financially and just as fun. Represen-
tatives of Australia’s Chinese allies, Mr.
and Mrs. L. M. Wang, will receive
guests on behalf of his Excellency Dr.
Hsu Mo and Mme. Hsu Mo, patrons
of the ball, who will not be able to
attend. The beautiful ballroom of Rip-
ponlea should make an attractive back-
ground and present no difficulties of
accommodation for the 400 guests the
committee expects. A feature of the
evening will be an auction of orchids
grown in the Ripponlea hothouses, and
dancers will be able to cool off in the
lovely tree-filled gardens surrounding the
house.
The Women’s Committee of the Fight-
ing French is jubilant about the success
of its Easter Shop, which has netted more
in a fortnight than most patriotic shops
expect to make in many months. The
president, Miss Frances Barkman, has
announced a total of well over a thou-
sand pounds. The French community
and their many friends are grateful for
the very warm feeling towards the French
cause that lay behind people’s willing-
ness to buy. The shop was stocked
mostly with articles of the decidedly ex-
pensive kind, and the staff didn’t feel that
it would be a target for bargain-hunters,
though people who know pure French
silks for what they are have some lucky
purchases to gloat over. Every day
found the spot surrounded by shoppers,
and very generous ones, too, with lots
who came in eager to buy “just some-
thing you like to pick out” to help the
cause.
From Sydney
Long before Lady Wakehurst opened
the Exhibition of China and Glass yester-
day the last speck of dust had been
brushed off the glowing design of plate
and cup, and the glass cases behind which
old English, old French and old Chinese
stood in bright allure satin-smooth
from the polishing cloth. David Jones’s
was packed for the opening, and many
brought the eyes of potential buyers and
picked the piece they would bid for to
the limit. Many a longing glance lin-
gered over the graceful and generous out-
line of the cup said to have belonged to
Napoleon. It has the Imperial N blaz-
oned on it, and it is just the type of cup
Josephine would have chosen to drink
her morning chocolate from. Near to it
are the tall vases from Annandale House.
They were proud part of the home owned
by the Major Johnston who arrested
Governor Bligh.
A useful little piece to have about the
home would be the set of carvers. Their
handles are of ivory and beautifully
carved into the likeness of a very youth-
ful Victoria and Albert. Sevres and
Limoges are here. A Limoges dressing-
table set blossoming with harebell-pink
flowers was much admired ; so were the
Pekin glass vase and the fine array of
decanters, exquisite Waterford among
them. Governor Macquarie’s soup plate
will undoubtedly be one of the pieces to
bring a high price from the historically-
minded when Max Lawson auctions the
treasures for the Red Cross.
When Marie Crowe goes to the Great
Hall of Sydney University on May 29
she will be attending her second gradua-
tion ceremony. On the first occasion she
received her science degree. This year
she graduates in medicine and surgery.
Marie, who is just around the corner
from 20, is a former pupil of Sancta
Sabina, Strathfield. Later she was a
student at Sancta Sophia within the Uni.
The clever girl is a descendant of two
pioneer families —the Crowes, of Gobar-
ralong station, and the Duffys, of Temora
and Wyalong. Her parents are the F. A.
Crowes, of Collingwood, Liverpool.
The C.W.A. came of age this year,
and looked very proud of the fact at the
annual meeting last week. This was
housed in the G.U.0.0.F. Hall in Castle-
reagh-street. Two hundred delegates had
declared their intention of being present,
and the congested rows of chairs sug-
gested they were all there, plus many
more. The names of attending delegates
were written on a blackboard at the
entrance. Neither distance nor the dis-
comforts of war-time transport had de-
terred the intrepids. Lady Wakehurst
opened the meeting, and was there till
noon, when she had to rush off to an-
other engagement. Before she went she
asked all listeners to come up to G.H.
and have a dish of tea with her and the
Governor in the late afternoon.
President Mrs. J. J. Garry, whose ways
are gentle as those of the cushat dove,
but who keeps her team well in hand,
had Sydney’s Mayor Bartley and his wife
and Cyril Docker, of the Comforts Fund,
in the group about her. Thanks were
handsomely tendered by the Mayor and
Mr. Docker for the £5OOO which C.W.A.
has given to the Comforts Fund. Charlie
Lloyd Jones, too, was given his meed of
praise.
Touching speech of the morning was
Mrs. Hubert Fairfax’s tribute to the
Robert McMillans. Mrs. McMillan was
to have been an honored guest at the
birthday celebrations (she and her late
husband had been enthusiastic supporters
of the movement since its very begin-
nings), but at Easter Death had served
an invitation on the little lady.
When the lunch adjournment came
packets of sandwiches and tea were
handed around by the Junior Red Cross,
to save delegates scrambling from one
crowded cafe to another in search of
food,
Mrs. Basil Foulds and Mrs. E. A.
Goghlan were a constant help to the con-
ference. First secretary Marie Irvine
came along in a smartly-caped coat of
shepherd’s plaid. First president Mrs.
Hugh Munro, of Bingara, was noted. So
was Mrs. Mac Smith, whose book, Some
Day, brought in £BOO or so. In the after-
noon Lady Cowrie arrived to receive this
amount on behalf of prisoners of war.
In the evening old memories were ex-
changed with much laughter while the
21 candles around the huge birthday cake
burned bright.
Two dozen fowls dressed, without
benefit of coupons, were sent by Mrs. O.
Hargrave from the Blue Mountains to
the University Settlement Fete last Satur-
day, They became the victims of fever-
isn gamblers who desired to pluck them
from the lucky wheel. There was luck,
too, at another stall, where 100 black
cats promised their buyers good fortune.
With one in the lapel the wearer could
look forward, undaunted, to the glum-
mest astrological forecast in the Sunday
papers. Lord Wakehurst opened the fete,
and, with president of the Settlement
Board Miss I. M. Fidler and Chancellor
of the University Charles Blackburn, did
the rounds of the stalls. Cakes, sweets
and toys were arranged in bright display,
and were swiftly bought up.
Now that the midwinter holidays are
approaching, the 16-year-olds who are
taken to the Minerva to see “Janie” will
want, like the man in the song, to be
“off to Philadelphia” (or New York) “in
the morning.” The play is just a mad romp
from start to finish, and shows Janie and
her pals, all High School girls, having a
wild “do” with a bunch of potential
generals and admirals. The part that
will particularly appeal to the young is
that there is no back kick from the
grown-ups the morning after. The
Minerva was booked out for the open-
ing. Service men of the land, the sea
and the air were in the audience. Two
tired-looking Air Force lads went fast
asleep. Service women, too, were
numerous. The Alec Coppels were
among the lookers-on and heard good
reports on all sides about Whitehall Pro-
ductions’ new find, Gwenda Wilson. The
Bertie Kellys, true to a lifetime’s first-
night instincts, brought a party : so did
the H. J. Bradys.
Any woman who contemplates going
into a private hospital should read
Monica Dickens’s One Pair of Feet. This
gives the nurse’s point of view on the
patient who is afraid she may not be
getting her money’s worth out of the
establishment, and almost gets corns on
her fingers pressing the bell for “nursie.”
There’s not a woman in hospital uniform
from probationer up to matron who
wouldn’t grin at the description of the
trying female whose bell rang “not once
but as if she were giving the Victory sign
in Morse.” Then there’s a joyous vision
of the lady who was well enough to be
wheeled into the garden to take the sun
in an invalid chair. “This involved as
much preparation as a continental jour-
ney. Eiderdowns, pillows, handkerchiefs,
scarves, rugs, sunshades, sunglasses,
book, magazines, gastric barley sugar,
eau-de-Cologne and a footstool all had
to go out as well.”
Maorilander Jean Mackenzie has been
appointed official secretary on the staff
of High Commissioner Berendsen. She
comes with lots of experience to her Can-
berra job. She has been second secretary
in the Maoriland Legation at Washington
and was a member of the secretarial staff
of her country’s High Commissioner in
London. Also she has accompanied
Enzed delegations to Geneva and to
Ottawa. At present she is holidaying in
Invercargill (M.L.) before beginning her
new duties.
There’s to be an all-British programme
at the orchestral concert in the Town
Hall on May 25. The concert will aid
the R.A.A.F, Central Area Comforts
Fund, and as Mrs. Bertie Kelly is presi-
dent of its women’s committee it is
appropriate that a work composed by her
husband’s brother, F. S. Kelly, should be
included. The composition is an elegy-
composed in honor of Rupert Brooke.
The musician and the poet were friends.
Now their work lives after them.
Sydney Hospital is to have the first
woman medical superintendent in its his-
tory. She is Dr. Helen Tooth, and she
commenced her duties when Dr. Banks,
the present medical super., joined the
army. She has been for some time a
resident medical at the hospital.
The H. B. Chamberlains, of Wah-
roonga, gave their daughter Hazel Joan
away in matrimony recently to Lieut.
William Howard Balls, of the U.S. Navy.
The wedding was at St. Stephen’s, Belle-
vue Hill.


WHEN HAIR GROWS THIN!
McMahon’s Hair Restorer is used for bald patches, alopecia
patches, dandruff, itching and dryness of the scalp, and
falling hair.
McMAHON'S HAIR RESTORER
PRICE: 5/-
Obtainable from Chemists, Hairdressers and Stores. If you
cannot get it locally send 5/-, plus 6d. postage, to the
wholesale distributors,
GRAIG & AITKEN PTY., LTD.,
654 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
m
fully guaranteed as to longevity, efficiency and mechanism.
THE HYGEIA DISSOLVENATOR
IS A COMPLETE SELF-CONTAINED SANITARY SYSTEM IN ITSELF, AND
IS NOT JUST A MODIFIED CLOSET PAN.
IT DISPLACES PANS AND SAVES SANITARY RATES.
Matter is dissolved and sterilised in the machine, and automatically runs off into
the underground sump and soaks away into the soil.
NO WATER SUPPLY REQUIRED.
HERE IS NO EMPTYING OR OTHER UNPLEASANT JOB.
Approved by the Board of Health—over 2200 in use.
NO SMELLS. NO FLIES. NO GERMS.
Gives same comfort and safety as a septic tank.
ANY HANDYMAN CAN INSTAL IT.
Write or telephone for illustrated pamphlet.
30 BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Telephone 81053.
HYGEIA SANITARY Co. Ply. Ltd.
Price, £l7/17/6 f.o.r. SYDNEY, including 121% Sales Tax.
Plus 35/- war surcharge. Crating, if necessary, 10/9 extra.
Obtainable direct, or from all leading stores, pastoral firms, etc. Agents all States
]*&?
mm
m
AROMATIC
ki
//
Agents:
M. Moss & Co. Pty. Ltd.,
SYDNEY.
I ■ i mm
1 M IH
lx.
B
m \ SB| : -
USB
. :
■xr
ra
I :
1
mm
•** - ■ "
in
K
"HlßlSil
■i
.■IX
:
mm
mmm
m
■I
71N A POST WAR
WORLD OF FLIGHT
ma
mm
Today our every
thought and plan is
ceaselessly devoted to
the service of martial
production but Just
sometimes our
thoughts turn to the
possibilities of the
future a future
world of flight a
future when the accur-
acy that our skilled
engineers are building
into precision parts
for the war planes of
today, will become the accuracy that makes
for a greater factor of safely in the com-
mercial planes of tomorrow.
Every starter, generator, magneto —in fact,
all aircraft equipment units, now being
produced by Tecnico for the needs of war,
are in themselves factors in the march
towards the fulfilment of those ideas of
a post-war world of flight.
When victory is ours, high standards of
precision engineering and craftsmanship
achieved during war will still characterise
“A Tecnico Product” in peacetime industry.
TC.3.4
ecnico
Limited
FORMERLY E.T.C. INDUSTRIES LIMITED
CNR. CARRINGTON RD. & RENWICK ST.,
MARRICKVILLE, N.S.W. PHONE LL3211
SMOKE-OH!
“Invented His Wife.” — “Sun” heading.
The trouble was, his invention wouldn’t
work.
4* 4* 4*
“Staff Short in Hospital.”— “Sun.”
Well, why don’t they strike for higher
wages, like everybody else?
•J* *|*
“Petitioner said that respondent, who was her
fourth husband, was ‘always coming home
full.’ ” — Divorce report.
Well, isn’t it the last match that always
blows out?
“Australia, Mr. Curtin said, was going
through a form of growing-pains. Men were
going on strike because there was not enough
tobacco and beer.” —“ S. M. Herald.”
Such pains, should they become
chronic, may lead to paralysis.
•b *b 4* *b
“Does America expect to receive money from
Russia for the help now being given?”
—‘‘Daily Telegraph
Not a Red cent.
“It was certainly a bad period for poor Jill.
On Monday she sprained her ankle, on Tues-
day she was jilted by Bob, while on Friday she
was stricken with acute appendicitis.”
—Magazine story.
Her astrological chart read: “Your
lucky week.”
The Vapors.
“This is not an age in which young women
swoon or have the vapors. Today they stand
on their own feet.” — Mr. Justice Street.
Although it may be injudicious
To lapse, in moments of distress,
Into complete unconsciousness,
The swoon at times was quite auspicious;
For, felled by maidenly alarms,
The swooner picked her place to land
And generally found at hand
A welcome pair of brawny arms.
The timely faint prevails no longer
Since women, teste Justice Street,
Stand just as firmly on their feet
As does the sex once termed the stronger.
This circumstance, besides, has wrought
A duller edge to chivalry —
The would-be swooner fears that she
Would probably go down uncaught.
P. M. L.
Knotty.
“A curious case has occurred in Tennessee,
where the day before that fixed for her wed-
ding a bride broke off her engagement to a
man who was passing under the name of Nott,
when she discovered that that was not his real
name. A week later she married the man re-
sponsible for the exposure of the fraud, who
was really named Nott.” — ‘‘World’s News.”
Now hefe’s a knot! Nott was not Nott ;
Thus was the knot not knotted.
The real Nott she liked a lot
And to the altar trotted.
So here a paradox we’ve got —
She’s married, though she wedded Nott.
P. P.
The Old Contemptibles.
I guess things have changed up Bandar-
ragan way,
I s'pose there’s a church, or Jim’s got a
new dray ;
Or maybe Old Jack doesn’t drink any
more,
Or someone has shouted the hall a new
floor;
But one thing’s the same — I’ll bet you
that Ma
Dibble’s boarding-house dinner’s still
goat or galah.
BUTCHER-BIRD.
No Vaunted Co-operation.
As I walked into the police station a
beefy sergeant with a red face and water-
wing ears glanced up from his desk. The
look he bent on me so conjured up a
feeling of cold bracelets snapping on my
wrists that when he barked out “Well,
what d’ you want?” I even forgot to
raise my bowler to him and could only
stammer “Is—is this the police station?”
The sergeant’s brows came together
like a couple of mobile hedges. “Well,
if it’s the boiling-down works I’ve been
paid for twenty years by the wrong
people,” he grated. “Whadda y’ want?”
By this time I had recovered my wonted
poise. “A little civility and some co-
operation,” I replied firmly. As he gulped
for air I continued: “You invite in notices
appearing in public vehicles the public’s
co-operation in the apprehension of per-
petrators of malfeasances, torts, felonies,
etc., and the reporting of suspicious char-
acters. In effect, you wish us to treat
the police as confidants in matters per-
taining to our own protection from
crimi”
The sergeant’s neck started to swell
visibly. Holding himself back with an
effort he said: “Look! Do y’ want us
to do something for you, or what?”
“Would I be here else, nincompoop?”
I asked, with rising confidence. Obvi-
ously this was the attitude to take with
such a fellow, “I’ll tell you why I’m
here—l’m being menaced!”
The sergeant threw a side glance at a
one-stripe artist, a lance-constable, I sup-
pose he would be called, who was sitting
in a corner pruning the soles of his feet
with a wood rasp. Tapping his head, he
said “Persecution-complex crank. Heave
him out,” and bent again to his writing.
“Now, then, no clumsy flatfoot persi-
flage!” I admonished sharply. “Must 1
repeat over your head to the Commis-
sioner that my report of having received
a threatening letter received scant con-
sideration here?”
“Oh! You have, eh?” That brought
him up with a round turn. “Do you
know the person who sent it?” he asked,
“I do. And a more blackhearted scoun-
drel never breathed,” I said warmly.
“Unless I give him a sum of money he
threatens to make public certain things
I was once rash enough to commit to
paper.”
“Ah! Blackmail, eh?”
“Nothing less,” I said. “Extortion with
threats. There is violence behind every
written word. Once I make one pay-
ment I am in his foul clutches. If 1
refuse he has me in the hollow of his
hand. Would you suggest laying a trap
for him?”
The sergeant, stirred to duty at long
last, pondered. “Yes, we might arrange
that,” he said at last. “By the way, whal
is this man’s name? He may have s
record.”
“I wouldn’t doubt it,” I replied, “Here
is the letter. “There!” Opening it, I
pointed.
The sergeant leaned back and labori-
ously read the letter out loud, from the
opening “Dear Sir,—Unless....” to the
final “Yours faithfully, J. Gooly, Credit
Manager, Shent Per Shent Cash Orders
Co.”
With a bellow like a wounded bull the
sergeant heaved himself out of his chair.
“You stupid blankarof!* he roared at last
in deplorably unconstabulary language.
“Get out before I kick you into the
cells! ”
But I am ever the gentleman. Raising
my bowler to the boorish fellow, I swept
past him in dignified silence.
So much for the vaunted help you get
when seeking the aid of our police!
Bo.


THE OTHER FELLOW'S MIND
The contributor placed first is paid
4i|d. per line; all others 2|d. per line.
Only a Metal Badge
He was in an old grey suit and a cloth
cap. Few noticed the metal disc on his
lapel. It was only the badge of the
Merchant Navy.
In the days when Stukas blackened the
sky he had run the gauntlet to Malta, not
once but several times. He had been on
Arctic convoy to Russia, and his ship
had gone down in those bleak wastes.
Coming across the storm-tossed Atlantic,
again his ship was hit and again he lost all.
Yet because he had only a metal badge,
I was able to get things he couldn’t. My
work in the Navy hasn’t been a millionth
of what my mate has done.
There seem uniforms enough to clothe
all the glamorous females, but not suffi-
cient to clothe heroes. It’s time they were
given a uniform as a right—no fitter
wearers can be found on this earth. —
launty (MX.).
The V.D.C.’s Place
Nobody enjoys more than the V.D.C.
the jokes The Bulletin publishes about
them; some of the prints are hung up
in various battalion and company head-
quarters. But let it not be supposed that
the V.D.C. is not a worth-while organisa-
tion or that it does not need worth-while
recruits. It needs them badly.
The V.D.C. is fulfilling a very useful
purpose. There was a time when the
position actually was such as to give point
to the jest that a company armed with
imaginary guns was to take an imagi-
nary position and had better bring
imaginary lunches. Today the V.D.C.
has all the arms, and plenty of
them ; its members are being given actual
defence jobs to do ; and some of the best
instructors in the army have been allo-
cated to train them in the use of the
weapons they may have to handle.
Every man enlisted in the V.D.C. is a
man actually in the fighting line. If this
volunteer organisation was only a little
stronger the Defence authorities would
have greater confidence in moving the
garrison forces to areas nearer the fight-
ing line, taking the places of men who
in their turn could be moved further for-
ward still. Each V.D.C. recruit brings
nearer the time when our troops can fall
on the Jap and push him back from his
positions of threat.
Every man who could enlist in the
body that is prepared to make a soldier
of the recruit who could not face up to
the normal military requirements is de-
laying the finish of the war equally with
the young eligible who shirks getting into
a uniform.—V. D. Seer (N.S.W.).
A.W.L.
Despite all the talk about absenteeism
in industry the greatest wastage from this
cause occurs in the Array. Many good
men are needed to trace and bring back
deserters.
If the civil police were given author-
ity to ask a soldier to produce
his pass and to detain any soldier with-
out one, much could be done to check
this growing evil. At all towns police
meet every passenger train, and if they
were empowered to ask all soldiers who
have travelled to produce a leave pass
many deserters would be located.
I would suggest also that the Army
authorities, say once in every three
months, should arrange that throughout
Australia no leave passes at all, unless
perhaps in very exceptional circum-
stances, should be given for a particular
week or few days. Then any soldier seen
away from a camp would be absent with-
out leave, and could be detained im-
mediately by either civil or military
police.—A. W. L. (Q.).
Appreciation
I wish on behalf of the State Execu-
tive to thank you for your sympathetic
consideration at all times to all current
problems which affect men and women
of the fighting services.— J. R. Lewis,
Acting Secretary, N.S.W. Branch, Re-
turned Sailors, Soldiers and Airmen’s
Imperial League of Australia.
The Army Does Grow Food’
“Viking” (B. 14/4/’43) apparently has
not heard that many soldiers besides
those in convalescent homes are growing
large quantities of fruit and vegetables
for army consumption. Several months
ago many Darling Downs (Q.) farmers
were recruited especially for that pur-
pose, and a newsreel was screened some
months ago in all capital cities showing
the splendid crops growing on a farm
worked by soldiers—a farm that recalls
to those who know it the phrase about
the desert being made to blossom as the
rose.
I would like “Viking” to see that farm
—and others like it now in existence —to
meet the men who run it, to see their en-
thusiasm and the places to which their
produce goes and is welcomed. I would
like him to see also the out-of-the-way
places where soldiers in their spare time
have established little vegetable gardens
and poultry-yards for the benefit of the
unit. And, finally, he should know that
the Army aids and encourages this very
useful form of self-help that is in no
small way assisting the general war effort.
—Timothy Tywire (S.A.).
This Man-power Business
What a sorry state of things is develop-
ing out of this man-power business!
Directors and managers of business em-
ploying any number of men can no
longer devote their energies to their
proper tasks but must spend hours worry-
"I'm worried 'bout me boy. The Man-power mob almost caught 'im
larst week."
ing about essential workers who, encour-
aged by sympathetic Wards, fancy they
can veer with any wind or mood to stay
on a job or quit it.
If some responsibility could be sheeted
home to someone the more harassing
problems might solve themselves, but
under the shadow of these socialistic ex-
perimenters it is nobody’s responsibility.
Things just drift, tempers rise, jobs creak
in the gears. And all is done in the name
of “justice” to the workers! Adsum
(W.A.).
Feminine Equality
According to a feminine member, press-
ing for “equal pay for equal work with-
out sex discrimination” at the Public
Service conference, “It has been proved
that any job a man can do a woman
can do.”
Taken literally, this statement is both
false and thoughtless. Railway fettling,
steeplejacking, building-demolishing, elec-
tric and/or telegraphic cable-joining,
coalmining, bridge construction, wharf-
lumping and even large-scale cooking
are but a few occupations I’ll stake
next week’s wages to nothing that no
woman, extensive training thrown in,
could do for as long or as well as her
husband or brother.
Trouser-pressing’s another minor job
few women undertake or succeed at,
while tailoring .(from the physical angle
only) beats 90 p.c. of them. Indeed, I’m
even foolhardy enough to suggest that
average present-day fathers make better
mothers (after the infant has been deli-
vered, of course) than their wives. Social
and economic conditions since the turn
of the century have gradually mitigated
against the preparation of girls for intel-
ligent and adequate motherhood.
So far, thank God, our women haven’t
been obliged to perform labor requiring
muscle and brawn beyond their limited
capacity; but their “equal pay, equal
rights” demands for sundry physically-
light tasks in which they can and do genu-
inely compete with men seem too perti-
nent, for better or for worse, to be denied
much longer.—P. O. M. C. (N.S.W.).
Populate Australia!
In the arguments which W. M. Hughes
seems so eminently capable of stirring
up with our American Allies, the
“Chicago Tribune” got a nasty shaft
home: “Australia not only was incap-
able of defending the mandated islands
granted her at Versailles but was also in-
capable of defending her own continent.”
True, disgracefully true. And what is
Australia going to do about it when, if
by the grace of God and the assistance
of the U.S.A, this continent does remain
inviolate, the Americans, having done
thejr job, go sailing home again? Arc
we going to lapse back into that delight-
ful fool’s paradise wherein Labor’s main
planks were a shadow army and opposi-
tion to immigration until the last Aus-
tralian should be found employment?
Shall we continue to hold this vast
island with fewer than 7,000,000 people ?
There is little sign that the great bulk
of Australians are undergoing a change
of heart. Gaily workers strike on
the most trivial questions—although a
glance at the map shows the Japs only a
few hundred miles to the north entrench-
ing themselves in a line of what may
prove impregnable fortresses. And what
guarantee have we that, even if driven
back, they will not come again: even as
Germany, utterly defeated in 1918, was
able to come again in 1939?
We need at least a population of
20,000,000, as quick as we can get them.
Possibly the required 13 millions would
come. But what are we to do with them
if they do? Can we offer them land
settlement after the tragic fiascos of
soldier settlement in Victoria and group
settlement in W.A., where hundreds in
the end walked off their holdings, leaving
behind State-financed houses which had
to be sold for a song?
Land they must have. Are there not
possibilities in the jungle country of North
Queensland, or on the western rim of the
great Gulf, watered as it is by the Roper,
McArthur and other streams? Or on the
great cattle plains of the W.A. Kimber-
leys, gridironed by rivers that flood like
the Nile in the wet but shrink to a chain
of pools in the dry? Can we find a man
who, when the day comes, will be big
enough to float a hundred million Peace
Loan, who will turn bulldozers and tens
of thousands of men to the making of
those wildernesses fit habitations for
women?
And shall we be able to find in peace-
time that devotion which led over the
Kokoda Trail and so for the time saved
Australia?—W. C. C. (W.A.).
Australians for the Kimberleys
David Ash way’s ideals (B. 21/4/ ’43)
are commendable, but are they practi-
cable? It would appear quite beyond
the realms of possibility for Australians
to populate the huge tract of land to
which he refers (and there are many
other such areas awaiting exploitation),
within the lifetime of anyone now living,
at any rate. A glance at our birth statis-
tics clearly indicates this. The explorers
D.A. mentions could never have visual-
ised birth control as one of Aus-
tralia’s national industries, with a few'
international wars thrown in to add to
our population difficulties.
As regards objections to the colonisa-
tion of these undeveloped areas by Jewish
refugees or any other race outside the
British Empire, are there any prospects
of obtaining a sufficient number of emi-
grants from within the British Empire?
From the look of things at present,
Britain will, for many years to come,
require all its available man-power to
rehabilitate its own territory and rebuild
and reorganise its industries when the
war ends. To “build thousands of miles
of railways and establish entire towns”
will need more than a few boatloads of
British emigrants, even supposing they
were available. To wait, for an indefi-
nite period, for an adequate number oC
emigrants of British extraction would be
but to court eventual disaster (I’m not
overlooking the fact that the present
stoush is another war to end wars!).
Australia’s present parlous position is
due to the fact that a handful of people
have the hopeless job of trying to defend
a continent, with the result that desperate
and frequent appeals have to be made to
the U.S.A. for help. The British colonies
are all, bf course, in the same position
as ourselves in regard to population needs.
To colonise our empty spaces the Jews
appear to be as good a proposition as,
or better than, any other. Jews have
proved themselves excellent agriculturists.
Further, they mind their own business,
and if, whilst engaged in their primordial
pastime of gathering in the shekels, they
help to develop our country, Australia’s
main object will eventually be gained.
This momentous question should not
be decided by a referendum of the people:
with its attendant hysterical and dis-
torted propaganda. It is one for decision
by the Federal Parliament. —R. H.
Park.es (Tas.).
Advertising the Unobtainable
I went into the township the other day,
and after going round every store in the
place and trying all the pubs I was lucky
enough to score one packet of cigarettes.
As I may be unable to go in again for
a month or six weeks, there is likely' to
be a fair amount of austerity in my
smoking.
I managed to buy a daily paper, and
that night it gave me about \l\ minutes’
reading. Included in that reading were
four advertisements for cigarettes and
tobacco, each taking up about a quarter
of a page. — Long ’On (Vic.).
Identity Cards at Elections
The authorities should require an idem?
tity card to be produced by every elector
at the coming Federal elections. Risk of
impersonation could thus be minimised,
and “dead” men’s votes would be elimi-
nated, Electors who forget their identity
cards, proving that they are not intelligent
enough or interested enough, do not de-
serve to have a vote recorded.
It is common talk that many people did
not fill in their national registration cards
and consequently have not had identity
cards issued to them. Such people should
not have a voice in the government of
the country.
An investigation after the election of
persons enrolled who did not exercise the
franchise would help the authorities in
tracing those who are evading service.
Bozo (Vic.).
Bring Back the Bush Bards
The suggestion of “Lawson and His
Ilk,” supported by “Bill Jim” (B.
28/4/’43), if put into practice, should
bring an enthusiastic response from ser-
vice men and others, so many of whom
have not hitherto had the joy of ac-
quaintance with our bush poets of the
past, much less our modern Australian
authors, many of whom are outstanding.
Give our boys the songs of their own
land with the sparkle and scent and
spaciousness of an atmosphere essentially
Australian.
The old bush ballads would have a
universal appeal, being not so sophisti-
cated as much modern verse is, but
simple, direct and colorful. 1 tried
your recently-published “Stockman” on
my own lad, and his pleasure was heart-
warming.
Give us our own songs, Bulletin.
You’ll find that we hunger and thirst
for them. — An Australian Mother
(N.S.W.).
Gold
What is A. T. Traversi (B. 28/4/’43)
driving at when he calls gold the “basis
of long-dated contracts”? In any con-
tract of repayment the only enforceable
obligation is to furnish legal tender. Even
if gold is a “superb store of value,” the
fact is quite irrelevant to the terms of
ordinary agreements. Nobody expects a
life-assurance company to hold a gold
reserve of its own.
Mr. Traversi appears to be concerned
with the problem of stabilising the value
of money. There is only one safeguard
for the currency—due limitation of its
quantity. The prestige of gold was due
to the fact that it imposed such a limi-
tation, either by being used itself as money,
or through the gold standard, which tied
the note issue to the stock of gold.
Inflation was hindered, not because
gold supplied a “backing” or “basis” —
these terms are used far too vaguely —
but because rules were observed which
permitted expansion of the currency only
when gold holdings increased. Now that
the rules have been cast aside we can
see how little gold counts without them.
—Arc (N.S.W.).


THE STORY
OF BOB MACFARLANE
How he began preparing 25 years ago to build
Australia’s industrial independence.
Bob Macfarlane is one of the people with enterprise
who made it possible for Australia to fight a modern war.
IN February, 191 b, an Australian
workman took a decision open to
anybody living in a democracy with
untrammeled private enterprise.
He decided to go into business on
his own account.
He was Bob Macfariane, a foreman
steel worker, and he decided to open
an iron foundry.
With less than £2OO capital, he
rented a thirty by fifty foot shed, hired
lour men, and went to work.
Now Bob might have made a mil-
lion in the first six months, but he
didn’t. He lost £9O. But his men were
paid full award wages.
T . - t r II 1 r
Their families got a full share of
Clinstmas cheer. Bob s wife got 3/6d.
for a Christmas present. >
In those early days, the foundry s
power was provided by a gas engine,
Sometimes it went without any trouble.
Sometimes Bob worked all night on it
to make sure that it would be ready
for the day s work.
The business had no telephone.
Within eighteen months, the busi-
ness showed signs of paying its way.
But Macfarlane’s troubles were any-
thing but over. For increased orders
meant increased staff, increased staff a
bigger wage bill.
The foundrymen had to be paid
every week, Macfarlane’s customers
paid every month.
Because he was in a small way, the
pig iron firms would grant him no
credit, and Macfariane began to find
his financial problem getting out of
ar *d-
Then one day, a young chap walked
in representing a new firm, and offered
him credit. “Credit! Why that will
be the making of this business,” said
Macfariane. “How much can I have?”
The young man assured him that he
could have any amount he liked. An
order was signed for two trucks of
pig iron, and two pleased men shook
hands. Pleased because to one it
meant the taking of his first N.S.W.
order, to the other it meant freedom
fro ™ financia l worry,
orde . r was beaded “The Broken
Proprietary Limited.’
N^° b Macfariane became the first
N.S.W. customer for pig iron on the
?’ HP ’ bo ° ks ’ and tbe gelation has
, Co ”' e .j oSer and . , clo . ser ln the
twenty-odd year period since.
“They’re a great crowd,” says Mac-
far!ane. “They’ve helped to build me
up just as they’ve helped to build up
hundreds of other independent foun-
dries.
“The B.H.P. has done a lot for
Australia. Pig iron was a tenner a
ton at the close of the last war, and
now jp s s j x q U jd.
“Most of the moans about industrial
development are on the grounds that
we can’t produce cheap enough to sell
in the open market. But the steel trade
shows that we can. And our wages
are amongst the highest awards in the
country.”
By 1936, Bob Macfarlane’s foundry
was employing thirty-odd men, with
his two sons, Bert and Vic, taking an
active part in both the hard yakker
and the management,
Then he decided to take another
important step. He saw a future in
nickel alloys, and decided to change
his foundry over to the casting of
alloys.
It was just as well for Australia that
Pouring molten metal into a mould. Ascot foundry is the biggest nickel alloy producer in Australia.
From father to son these men of the steel industry are always thinking ahead.
Moulding a lathe bed. Specialising in nickel alloys, the Ascot foundry is
doing an important war job. Bob Macfarlane is in the background.
he did. For to-day, Macfarlane’s
foundry at Ascot is producing more
nickel alloys for vital war work than
any plant in Australia.
At 63, Macfariane is a typical Aus-
tralian worker, hands and face lined
with years of hard toil. In the foun-
dry, he and his two sons are indis-
tinguishable from the other workers.
Perhaps the best indication of what
his men think of him comes from
Albert Baker, his first apprentice, who
is still with him to-day as foreman.
Albert, proud father of eight chil-
dren, sums Macfariane up with a terse
phrase ... “a white man.”
And that goes for the other hundred
men who are doing a vital job in the
Ascot foundry to-day.
As to the future of Australian heavy
industry, Macfariane is most confid-
ent. “We’ll be 0.K.!” he avers. “Be-
cause there’s no big or small in this
business ... we’re all part of the in-
dustry. Why, if I wanted advice on
anything to-morrow. I’d ring the
B.H.P. Service Department. And
what’s more, I’d get the advice 1
wanted.
“If we want to do a good job in re-
construction after this war, we’ve just
got to get that kind of co-operation
everywhere. It would be the making
of Australia.”
To-day Australia is producing about three times as much
steel per capita as Russia. And the steel industry in Australia
is much younger than in Russia.
People like Albert Baker (shown above)
are helping the war effort, arid helping to
create an industrial Australia.
From laboratories, work benches and mines is
coming a flood of suggestions to keep our industry
abreast of the great steel making countries.
