

SI
The Bulletin
“The Bulletin,” Vol. 64.—No. 3320
Wednesday, September 29, 1943
Price 6d«
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper,
Seppelts
INCHCOLM ABBEY.
“SAINT COLME’S INCH,” OF SHAKESPEARE’S “MACBETH.”
the Firth of Forth lies the island of Jnchcolm, and here,
w from their secure retreat, the brethren of the Abbey might look
across the water to the gay capital city of Edinburgh, from which
they were so effectually shut away. The foundation of this monas-
tery is mentioned most fully in a work called ‘Tixtracta ex
was the last of that monarch’s reign. The legend is that the good
king and his train were forced by a storm to take refuge on the
isle, where they sheltered from the gale under the austere hospitality
ol a hermit. It was thus in commemoration of his escape that
the king vowed he would found a monastery here.
Meaning “the isle of .Saint Columb,” Inchcolm has thus a history
closely linked with the Christianising of Britain, for it was Saint
Columb of lona after whom this little island was named. The
records of its foundation show that the monastery was endowed
with several considerable possessions on both sides of the Firth of
Forth, but, although in such an isolated position, the Abbey did
not cscape the plundering operations of raiders from the south in
the time of the third Edward.
S “" lsh hlstor >’. [° r n»«y o£ ' ,s Abl ols ’ t 0 falter Bowmakei
were no mean chroniclers. Bowmaker, known also as • > -
Abbot in 1418, and his pen did much to complete the an
of Scotland up to that time. Still in good repair, Inchcolm s
venerable pile includes a square tower decorated in the pointed
style, a church and small chapter house. The stone-roofed oratory
to the west is said to have been the cell of the hermit whose hos-
pitality sheltered the founder of the monastery.


Storu Writing
3 at HOWE
This Book FREE to YOU I
STOTT’S CORRESPONDENCE COLLEGE.
100 Russell Street. Melbourne.
Please send, without obligation, your New Free
Booklet, explaining how to Write for Profit, a»
advertised in the Sydney “Bulletin. ’
My Name
M y A ddrets
S.B. 243
AGE
The Red Page
THE SAILING SHIP .
Rod Quinn’s poem “The Ship” (B,
25 /8 / ’43) set me thinking about the
poetry of ships generally: how poets in
all times have used them as an image of
the human spirit on its journey through
time ; and how perfect and beautiful an
image the shipwrights provided when
they made the sailing vessel.
It has been a symbol which minor
poets have used as successfully as the
great. One remembers, of course, the
Odyssey; and Tennyson, never less
Tennysonian, becoming Ulysses, resolved
“to strive, to seek, to find and not to
yield”; but there was also an unfor-
gettable little verse by J. C. Squire;
There was no sound nor shout of joy
Nor beam of moon or sun
When she came back from the voyage
Long ago begun;
But twilight on the waters
Was quiet and grey.
And she glided steady, steady and pensive
Over the open bay.
The triumph of that word “pensive”!
Like the triumph of the “crowding” in
the loveliest poem Robert Bridges ever
wrote, “A Passer-By”:
Whither, O splendid ship, thy white sails crowd-
ing,
Leaning across the bosom of the urgent West,
That fearest not sea rising, nor sky clouding.
Whither away, fair rover, and what thy quest?
Ah! soon, when Winter has all our vales
opprest.
When skies are cold and misty, and hail is
hurling,
Wilt thou glide on the blue Pacific, or rest
In a summer haven asleep, thy white sails furl-
ing.
I there already before thee, in the country
that well thou knowest,
Already arrived am inhaling the odorous air:
I watch thee enter unerringly where thou goest,
And anchor queen of the strange shipping there,
Thy sails for awnings spread, thy masts bare;
Nor is there aught, from the foaming reef to
the snow-capped, grandest
Peak, that is over the feathery palms more fair
Than thou, so upright, so stately, and still thou
standest.
These are the poems of landsmen ; the
“splendid ship” flashes upon the sight
like an apparition, a vision. Bridges is
excited by his vision, caught up with it,
his mind rushes ahead of the ship to its
far destination. The Squire poem is a
poem of arrival; the ship is coming home
from the sea, the verse is calm with ful-
filment. Richard Church has a lyric in
which an outgoing.ship, instead of excit-
ing him like that seen by Bridges, calms
him, but in a different way from Squire’s,
stilling the mind with awe rather than
tranquillising it with completion:
I saw it through her blown hair
As we stood lip to lip
The ardor between us faded . . .
When you compare these English poems
with a verse by a Frenchman, Baudelaire,
you find a curious difference. The Eng-
lish poems are cold. One could not
imagine Squire’s sailors dashing ashore
to the nearest pub. The visitation of the
ship in Church’s poem is the death of an
embrace. Bridges may come to port in
the blue Pacific, but he conveys no im-
pression—as Baudelaire certainly does —
that the island is properly equipped with
tropical fruits and flowers and generous
dusky maidens:
Guided by thine odor towards the heat of
veils
I see a harbor filled with masts and sails
Wearied by the sea-wind that wearies me,
And in the perfume of the tamarind there
clings
I know not what of marvellous luxury
Mixed in my soul with the song the mariner
sings.
If, as is certainly the case, these poems
are not really about ships at all, but
about the voyage of the human spirit
through eternity, the Frenchman and the
English poets are bound for different
paradises. Baudelaire’s is the Affican
dream of a haven decorated by houris
of ineffable enchantment: the English-
man does not intend to marry in heaven.
Not many of the poets who have used
the image of the sailing ship have
troubled to make clear that they were
writing about their own or humanity’s
soul. Probably not many of them per-
ceived that they were so doing. If a
poet doesn’t preserve a certain innocence
about his visions he is likely to become
didactic or a mystic, losing the power to
present an image vividly and let it speak
for itself. Rod Quinn, seeing the dark-
ness on a cliff-top “crowded with
eyes”—
All stirless, all staring,
On beach and on height,
They watched in her travail
• That ship in the night—
imagined that he was writing about the
people’s longing for peace in this war.
And so, on the surface, he was. But he
was also watching the long adventure of
the human spirit
As, wave and wind fighting,
Through darkness she fared.
It is not so much what is stated about
the ship as what is implied about the
soul of man that gives to Wordsworth’s
great sonnet its eternal beauty and
mystery:
With Ships the sea was sprinkled far and nigh,
Like stars in heaven, and joyously it showed;
Some lying fast at anchor in the road,
Some veering up and down, one knew not why.
A goodly Vessel did I then espy
Come like a giant from a haven broad;
And lustily along the bay she strode,
Her tackling rich, and of apparel high.
This Ship was naught to me, nor I to her,
Yet I pursued her with a Lover’s look;
This Ship to all the rest did I prefer:
When will She turn, and whither? She will
brook
No tarrying; where She comes the winds must
stir.
On went She, and due north her journey took.
This sonnet and the companion piece
with its noble opening lines —
Where lies the Land to which yon Ship must
go?
Fresh as a lark mounting at break of day,
Festively she puts forth in trim array;
Is she for tropic suns, or polar snow? —
are probably echoed in the Bridges poem,
and may have had some influence on
“The Wanderer” and “Ships” of Mase-
field ; but the image of the sailing ship is
—or was —anybody’s property, a uni-
versal symbol.
It is fashionable these days to admire
Masefield only for the “Salt Water
Ballads” in which he wrote about ships
humorously and realistically, without
vision. When his inevitable resurrection
by the critics occurs, it will be remem-
bered in his favor that to him—the sailor
—the ship could be just as astonishing an
apparition as it has been to any land-
lubber :
I looked with them towards the dimness; there
Gleamed like a spirit striding out of night
A full-rigged ship unutterably fair.
Her masts like trees in winter, frosty-bright.
Like the other poets of the sailing ship
Masefield didn’t quite know what he was
really trying to convey by the symbol.
In “Ships” he thought he was writing
about the triumph of British craftsmen.
But in the line from “The Wanderer”
Gleamed like a spirit striding out of night
he came nearer to the real significance of
the sailing-ship image than any other
poet I can recall. Whatever else it may
pretend to be about, all true art is really
an image of spiritual truth, a glimpse of
the adventure of the soul, and there
never was a lovelier symbol than this of
the white sails, calm, steadfast and beauti-
ful, braving the waters and the distance.
S.
The Dieppe Raid.
Portrait of a Frenchman from A. B.
Austin’s We Landed at Dawn (Angus
and Robertson):
We had grounded on the shingle at full
tide, a few yards from the foot of the
cold - looking, unscalable, hundred - foot,
overhanging, chalk -white cliffs Just
ahead of us the Frenchman, who had been
bobbing up and down with excitement,
stepped ashore muttering “C’est drole.”
He had not been back since Dunkirk.
Portrait of another Frenchman:
Of the people of Occupied France whom
we met, it is better not to write for fear of
encouraging German vindictiveness. The
Normandy people are dour, and not easily
upset. They went about their work during
the battle with great calm, one man of over
sixty bicycling slowly up the road near the
battery position, not bothering about the
bullets and shells.
Portrait of a commando:
In a pause of the firing I looked up, to
find Lord Lovat sitting against a rock be-
side me. You could see that he was
bubbling with happiness. “By God we did
the job all right,” he said. “Went in
straight with the bayonet. Cut them to
shreds. Not a man left. How glad I
am I wasn’t in that battery! But they
fought hard.”
He was easy to pick out in that day’s
battle. “Cool as a trout,” one of his men
called him. And he had the only clean
face among us. being the only one who
had not blacked his face for the half-light
landing. Besides, he wore corduroy slacks
instead of our denims or battle-dress
trousers.
Portrait of two Germans:
One, who had been captured in his
trousers, braces, socks, one carpet slipper,
nothing else, was a typical old sweat. He
sat down at the side of the boat and dozed
off. A trooper winked at me. “We caught
him in the cookhouse,” he said. The other,
a brown-faced, square-headed blonde young
man, was at first sullen, and then grew
more sad in expression as the voyage went
on.
Portrait of a cow:
A cow was grazing in a field by the hotel.
She gave an occasional worried moo, but, in
spite of all the bullet whine and mortar
crash, never budged from the corner of the
field which was on her grazing schedule for
that morning. It must have been long past
her milking time.
Viewed as a group, those portraits
make an epitome of Austin’s story, the
sudden, savage fighting on the French
coast when the British raided Dieppe.
Austin is a war correspondent who
landed with the troops. Though his style
lacks distinction, he gives a clear picture
of the operation as a whole, and he has
a good eye for significant detail, comic,
tragic or heroic. He is at his best in his
account of how No. 3 Commando, its
strength reduced to 20 men (this was the
force that encountered the German con-
voy), harassed the 200 Germans of the
Berneval battery for over four hours.
Dickens in Miniature .
From A Tale of Two Cities :
“Now, I tell you where it is!” said Mr.
Cruncher to his wife on entering. "If, as a
honest tradesman, my wenturs goes wrong
tonight, I ifiall make sure that you’ve been
praying again me, and I shall work you for it
just the same as if I had seen you do it.”
The dejected Mrs. Cruncher shook her head.
“Why, >ou’re at it afore my face!” said
Mr. Cruncher with signs of angry apprehension.
“I am saying nothing.”
“Well, then, don’t meditate nothing. You
might as well flop as meditate. You may as
well go again me one way as another. Drop
it altogether.”
He devoted himself during the remainder of
the evening to keeping a most vigilant watch
on Mrs. Cruncher, and sullenly holding her
in conversation that she might be prevented
from meditating any petitions to his disadvan-
tage The devoutest person could have ren-
dered no greater homage to the efficacy of an
honest prayer than he did in this distrust of
his wife. It was as if a professed unbeliever
in ghosts should be frightened by a ghost story.
And the latter-day ghosts of Mr. and
Mrs. Cruncher in Robert Greenwood’s
The Squad Goes Out (Dent):
Every morning Lawson had to shave with his
wife bustling round him at the sink and a parson,
like an old sheep, braying in the background.
Screwing up his face before a fragmentary
mirror, and dodging every time she came near
the tap, he would hear unctuous tones coming
to him from a 8.8. C. studio, goading him and
goading him, till he would suddenly bellow:
“Aw, blarst!” and turn the voice off with a
violence that shook the set.
At these moments his wife became unnatu-
rally calm. •
“What’s the matter with you, Charlie Law-
son? Setting up against religion now?”
“I’m not setting up against anything. I’m
trying to shave,” he shouted Let the 8.8. C.
parson have a go at shaving in Lawson’s kitchen
with a worn-out blade and a bit of carbolic.
Reaching the wireless on her next journey to
the table she switched it on, not violently, or
even maliciously, but with a patient gesture,
just as she picked up the children’s fallen toys.
The “Thought for Today,” borne on an
earnest, brotherly voice, floated towards him.
Lawson put his razor down; he had got beyond
anger.
“What’s the use of tuning-in if you’re not
going to listen to it?”
“I can hear it,” she answered calmly.
Greenwood is an exponent of the Little
Man novel. The Little Man is the
Dickensian Londoner, watered down by
J. B. Priestley and watered down a
second time by the school that has fol-
lowed Priestley. One is reminded of a
poem by Robert Graves about “ogres and
pygmies.”
Dickens, caricaturing maybe, but never-
theless creating unforgettable characters,
offers the ogre, Greenwood the pygmy.
Jerry Cruncher has a bad conscience be-
cause he is a body-snatcher; Lawson has
a bad conscience because he has done
some petty embezzling. Jerry Cruncher
reproves his wife with the lid of an iron
pot; Lawson merely squabbles.
Although the heroine is just a pretty
girl off a magazine cover and the villains
—a rich man and his daughter who
escape from bombed London to the
country—are naively drawn, The Squad
Goes Out is a readable piece of work in
the Little Man tradition. Most of the
characters are convincing, some lively,
some quietly humorous. It gives an
acceptable picture of the blitz.
But deliberately minor art can’t be
more than minor. Greenwood wants to
show the bravery of ordinary people ; to
show, in effect, that the Little Man is a
Big Man. He can’t do it by writing
small.
SUNDRY SHOWS.
At the ballet:
Anybody \yaging a vendetta against poets,
artists, musicians, actors and journalists could
have bagged a couple of hundred of them at
the opening of Kirsova’s ballet at Sydney Con.
Clearly, the city is hungering for a better class
of entertainment than the Royal’s revivals or
the Minerva’s light comedies. But the unre-
strained praise the dailies gave the perform-
ance is likely to defeat its own object of estab-
lishing the ballet as a permanent feature of
Sydney’s cultural life. With the notable excep-
tions of a brief appearance by Kirsova herself
in “Capriccio,” Slavinsky’s vigorous por-
trayal of a gipsy and the gaiety of Strelsa
Heckelman in “Hansel and Gretel,” the danc-
ing was unexciting: Peggy Sager exemplified
a general failing when, as the princess
in “Swan Lake,” she danced with her
mind on technique rather than on the
spirit of that lovely ballet. “Swan Lake,” as
Baronova demonstrated, is a vehicle for a
great tragic actress as well as a great dancer.
Only in “Swan Lake” was the decor adequate.
The skunpy “symbolic” settings in “Hansel and
Oretel and the other ballets may be the best
that can be managed at present; but they
wont do for ever. Ballet is a harmony of
dancing, decor and music and each must be
equally rich. For the same reason, piano accom-
paniment is inadequate. Half the poetry of
Swan Lake” is lost without the ripple and flow
ot strings. The programme as a whole was too
light; and, as has been said here before, if
this is going to be an Australian ballet, some
Australian themes will have to be found. What
has been done so far makes a pleasant even-
ing s entertainment and a promising beginning.
“Cauboy”: Melbourne Group Theatre’s
putting on of two plays with 100 years
between them provided some interesting
contrasts. “Soldadera,” by Josephina
Niggli, concerned the women guerrillas
who followed their men in the Mexican
revolution of 1910 with the one desire
to revenge themselves on “the Spaniards”
for all they had suffered during the horror-
stricken years before the revolution.
What they did to their prisoners, if the
description is correct, is nobody’s busi-
ness. The interesting thing about it, how-
ever, was that the Group players no more
knew how to handle these ferocious vira-
goes than the average Australian amateur
actor who has never seen an English
butler knows how to play one. It was
completely outside their own experience,
and they ranted and raved like musical-
comedy bandits. On the other hand,
they did Gogol’s “Marriage,” which dealt
with half a dozen old Czarist officials
seeking the hand of the same girl be-
cause her peasant mother has a fortune,
quite well. Officialdom is much the same
the world over, and so, no doubt, are the
feelings of elderly suitors and of girls
who are being sold in the social market.
There is observation in Gogol’s wild,
fantastic satire, and observation is never
old-fashioned. The Mexican play, with
its political bias, already looks old-
fashioned.
At the talkies:
Greater Union’s Sydney news thcatrettes
have given some fine documentaries of the New
Guinea campaign; the latest —Damien Parer’s
record of the battle of Salamaua —is the best
of them all. Diggers creeping stealthily towards
Japs in their foxholes; the searching out of a
strongpoint and its blasting by mortars; ’planes
strafing Jap positions at treetop height—these
and more tragic scenes are unforgettable.
“Unpublished Story” (Sydney Lyceum) is a
rarity among newspaper talkies in that every-
body isn’t demented. Recognisably human
figures emerge, such as the astrological seer
who gets a tremendous thrill when one of his
prognostications comes near the mark. Super-
imposed are some real pictures of the great
fire blitz on London. Richard Greene and
Valerie Hobson make the best of a story which
has some jerky periods. “The Navy Comes
Through” (Plaza) has Pat O'Brien and George
Murphy as merchant-navy stalwarts who pursue
a private feud even while they are shooting at
U-boats. Old stuff, but done with zest.
Professional publicists who have been
dropping in lately at the Theatre,
Melbourne, have been courteously re-
quested by the management not to reveal
the identity of the performers in “You’ll
Be Surprised.” But all enemy and
friendly agents in the packed house will
instantly recognise the celebrated Mr.
in the stout comedian who
opens his mouth in the first bit, and every
small boy knows as well as any criminal
chatterer that the suave gent, who puts
women into cabinets and saws them into
handy pieces is not the long-deceased
Florentine poet who wrote a lot about
Hades, but the internationally-famous
. As for the Lovelies, they de-
pend for their appeal on something other
than their personalities.
“F.S.” on official war art:
Official war art has never been of the first
rank, and the exhibition of paintings, drawings
and sculpture by Australian war artists
sponsored by the Board of Management of the
Australian War Memorial and hung at the
National Gallery in Melbourne is no exception.
Divested of its subject-matter interest it would
arouse no more than passing comment in any
average metropolitan exhibition. Given its sub-
ject matter, it does not convey the feeling of
the wide-flung Armageddon as well as the rough
sketches of Diggers in the trenches of France
done by Will Dyson in the last war. William
Dargie’s portrayal of Corporal James Heather
Gordon, V.C., is well done, but self-conscious
and academic. His portrait of an airman,
painted in the open at Gambut in Libya in
such an intense light that the model had to keep
his eyes shut, is better. Roy Hodgkmson’s
“Kittyhawks and Zeros in Aerial Combat over
Darwin, April, 1942,” is conventional illustra-
tion, with no feeling of movement in it, though
there is in his “Huggins Road Block, Sanananda,
December 1942.” Dennis Adams’s “Sikorsky
Kingfisher’ and R.A.N. Cruisers” again is cold
illustration. Captain Ivor Hele shows vigor
in his “Debussing in a Desert Duststorm,” but
in all his pictures seems to have imposed un-
warranted limitations on his palette. Harold
Herbert’s technique is ill-adapted to bring home
the fact that there is a war on in his landscapes,
and Frank Norton gives an undistinguished
version of the naval side of the conflict. The best
paintings are those by Arthur Murch and Wil-
liam Dobell. Dobell has a huge, brawny, bull-
necked giant of a C.C.C. worker labelled
“Billy Boy,” and his “Emergency Loading at
Night” has force about it. According to the
catalogue, “by using single massive forms,
plastically related, sculptor Lyndon Dadswell
has given not a photographic image of arrested
action but the essential power and threat of
a grenade-thrower.” This is in the language
of the modernist assthcticians, and so is the
sculpture A self-portrait is all that is available
of Murray Griffin, who is p.o.w. m Malaya.


“TRUTH IN ADVERTISING”
“THE SENIOR STORE”
ANTHONY HORDERNS’
120th Year of Service
MILITARY WEAR
g
Officers’ Uniforms made to measure
in all wool worsted, khaki drab tunic
and slacks. Price £6/19/6
Coupon-free.
English Khaki Drill Uniforms. The
tunic and slacks are pre-shrunk and are
tailored by Anthony Horderns’. £5/5/
Coupon-free.
to wear English Khaki Drill
Shorts. Tailored Indian army style with
full cut, pleats and double waist straps.
30 to 46 inch waists. Price .... 14/9
4 Coupons.
ri
/
MILITARY MERCERY
IS
<
S leeveless Khaki Siipon Jumper made
in a lacy lock stitch. A very fine weave.
Sizes: Men’s. Price 11/3
OS. Price 12/3
XOS. Price 14/3
7 Coupons
iM en’s “Jumbuk” Underwear. Light-
weight All Wool Undershirts with short
sleeves, to fit 34 to 44 inch chest. 11/-
5 Coupons
Underpants to the ankle. Size 34 to 42
inch waist. Price 12/6
6 Coupons
Long Sleeved Khaki Pullovers in a plain
stitch and a fine weave.
Sizes: Men’s to O.S. Price .... 17/6
Size: EXOS. Price 19/6
9 Coupons
ĝ
ANTHONY HORDERNS’
FAMOUS LOW PRICES
PHONE: M 2401 (DAY AND NIGHT) BOX 2712 C, C.P.0., SYDNEY


KELLY AND THE SHARK
-(And Other Memories of Manly)-
By RODERIC QUINN.
THE boats used to start from the
Quay and call in to Woolloomooloo
Bay. There it was that I boarded
• the Emu, a paddle-wheel boat of
ancient vintage, on my first trip to Manly.
The Emu, unlike the swift bird of our
plains whose name it bore, was so slow
that, even when favored by the weather,
she took a full hour to do the seven-mile
journey between wharf and wharf. Also
she was squat and flat-bottomed, and had
a habit of rolling dangerously in the swell
that the north-east winds most of the
summer send ranging through the Heads.
So unseaworthy was she, indeed, that, on
a night when no ripple disturbed the bay
on which she lay, softly and silently she
sank at her moorings: thinking, maybe,
thus to put an end to her ceaseless
journeys.
This suicidal attempt availed her little,
however, for, hauled up from the ooze
in which she easefully rested, patched
and painted, and given a new name to
disguise her disreputable misdeeds of the
past, she was set to roll and rattle, wheeze
and snort up and down the long blue road
once more. But a time came when the
public would no longer travel by her, with
the result that she was sent to a back-
yard of the harbor, there to rest and rot
away, while other craft, sounder of hull
and speedier of keel, took up the running
from Quay to Cove.
With the last boat gone for the night,
belated Manlyites found themselves
marooned on the Sydney side with seven
miles of water between them and their
homes. The only means of bridging the
distance then was either to hire a water-
man to take them to Milson’s Point and
from there, if no vehicle was available,
to foot it over the hills, or to go per
waterman’s skiff to Manly.
Among those who favored the latter
method was William Bede Dailey, bril-
liant writer and sparkling speaker, and
the man he preferred to ferry him home
was Kelly of the “Rocks” —fighter, rower
and fisherman.
On such occasions, Dailey at the tiller
and Kelly at the oars, the skiff would
move out of the Quay and across
to Pinchgut, and so to Bradley’s
Head, Kelly pointing out new-come ships
to Dailey, schooner, clipper and barque,
and telling of incidents concerning them,
while Dailey, tired out with a day’s work
in court or a night’s business in Parlia-
ment, would lean back and listen, glad
of the good air he breathed and the good
talk he heard.
Rounding Bradley’s Head and opening
up the lights of the lightship moored at
the Sow and Pigs, or maybe a bit further
along off Chowder Bay, or under the
loom of Middle Head, Dailey would
take a turn at the oars, protesting that
a mile or two of rowing would mean
better sleep for him and a keener appetite
in the morning. But Kelly, reluctantly
surrendering his seat, would know all
the same that this wasn’t the only reason
that made Dailey so anxious to relieve
him of the oars.
ONE night, shortly after it occurred,
Kelly told me his talk went this
way with Dailey;
Answering a question put by Dailey,
Kelly said “No, Mr. Dailey, I’ve not been
out fishing for some time now —not since
I did my term in Quarantine.”
“Quarantine! Quarantine, Tom, did
you say?”
“Yes,” said Kelly, “and it’s funny how
it occurred.”
Dailey had stopped rowing, his oars
arrested by surprise for a moment. Re-
suming his stroke he said “I’m listening.
Go ahead.”
“About a month ago,” Tom began,
“word came along to me that the red fish
were biting freely at the ‘Old Man’s Hat.’
On a night like this, with not a word to
anyone of where I was going, off I went
to Manly, hired a boat and set out for
North Head.
“When I got there I found I was to
fish on my lonesome ; there was not an-
other boat in sight. Blessing my luck
that I had the whole ground to myself,
and not dreaming that I would be curs-
ing my luck for the same reason before
the night was out, I heaved the kellick
over, made a cushion of my overcoat,
lit my pipe and got to business.
“Scarcely had my bait touched bottom
when I fastened on to a bull bream and,
fighting me all the way from the bottom
to the top, up he came and into the boat.
Down again the line went, and in a jiffy
up I hauled my second fish. Unhooking
it, I leaned back and breathed softly,
thinking to myself how happy I was to
be fishing there alone with all this luck
coming my way, and with never another
to share it with me.
“Down went my line once more, and
a tug and a run told me that I had
hooked my third fish. Hand over hand
I brought the line in, the fish fighting
gamely—till suddenly the strain eased.
“‘Lost it!’ I said, but I found that I
had not altogether lost it; the head
still remained on the hook. John Shark
had arrived on the scene to keep me com-
pany and share in my luck.
“It’s usual with fishermen, as you
know, when a shark takes a hand in
their sport, to up-kellick and clear out;
but I could not bring myself to abandon
a scene where my luck had been so
glorious.
“Maybe, I thought, this spoilsport
does not permanently reside hereabouts.
Maybe he’s just happened in from the
coast to do the round of the harbor, and
when he finds no more easy food he’ll
take himself off and quit troubling me.
For a while or so he’ll get no more fat
fish dangling at the end of my line.
“The while or so I devoted to an obser-
vation of the scenery, though there wasn’t
much to observe —just the loom of North
Head close at hand, the white wash of
surf on the bombora at Dobroyd, the
black bulk of a collier making into port
and the lit side of a midnight boat
heading seaward to Newcastle.
“When I had waited a sufficient time
to test his intentions I put my line over
again, again hooked a fish, and again
had it snatched away from me —snatched
holus-bolus this time, without leaving
me even a remnant to triumph over.
That nettled me, but I was more than
nettled when on my next challenge to
him the shark not only plundered me of
my fish but of hook, sinker and half a
fathom of good line.
‘ ‘T" HERE in the dark as I rigged the
• fishing gear anew with my blood
at boiling point, I vowed an unholy vow
that, happen what might, come what
would, I would beat that shark and get
my fish, and get it whole. Then as I
dropped the line over I saw him.
“Ten feet long at least, he lay a foot
or two below the surface, motionless of
tail and fin ; lay there waiting and watch-
ful, as though aware that he had been
challenged to a duel, and was prepared
to see it out to the end.
“At the side of the boat, an oar’s
length away, the sight of him sent my
blood down to zero, but it did not quench
my determination to better him.
“I had a while to wait before the prize
we were contending for came along and
took the hook. ‘Well, here’s for it,’ I
said, kneeling down in the boat in order
to give free play to my arms. As the
fish neared the surface, fin cutting the
water like a knife-edge, on came the
shark to intercept it. By just a second I
made myself the winner, jerking the prize
from the water into the boat, but in the
second that followed came a crash that
sent me rolling over.
“Lying on the bottom boards, the next
instant I became aware of six inches of
the shark’s nose filling a hole in the boat’s
side, just on the waterline.
“Backing out from the boat, the shark
drew away, and then I did the only thing
there was to do, with the water gurgling
and gushing in on me. Leaning back on
the thwarts of the boat, on the side oppo-
site to where the shark had holed it, so
as to bring the waterline above the water
level, I crammed my overcoat into the
gap, crammed it in, squeezed and plugged
it in with heel of hand and heel and toe
of boot. Then, when the inrush of water
had slowed down, I got hold of my
sheath knife and cut the kellick line.
“With nothing to hold her 1 against an
insetting tide, the boat, waterlogged to
a depth of half a foot or more, began
to drift into the rocks, where the wash
was big enough to maim and drown me
and to smash her to splinters.
S‘All in a daze and chilled through with
a chill that did not come from without
but from within me, somehow I managed
to get the oars into the rowlocks and,
rowing lopsidedly to head the boat away
from the danger that threatened her —
rowing for a space, and for a space stop-
ping to bale out the water that in spite
of all I could do deepened inch by inch
around my ankles—after what seemed to
me a struggle lasting through long hours
and over weary miles I landed on Quaran-
tine Beach.
“There, because a ship infected with
smallpox had entered port that very day,
to crown my ill-luck I was forced to do
twenty-one days’ internment.”
“But what became of the shark, Tom?’’
asked Dailey. “Did you see him again?”
“I did, Mr. Dailey, and what I saw of
him was this: I saw him swimming
around in a circle, swimming slowly,
swimming stupidly with his head thrust
above the water, and his jaws agape with
a toothy grin. What had happened to
him I realised immediately. A shark’s
nose being the most vulnerable part of
his make-up, when he drove it into the
boat’s side he had suffered a knockout
for the time being, just like a man who
gets a stiffener on the point of the jaw.”
11.
TWO relics that still survive to tell of
Manly’s artistic past are its castle and
its kangaroo. But I had it in leisured
talks with an old inhabitant, who no
more gossips on its waterfronts, that a
row of statues once dubiously adorned
its main thoroughfare.
His belief was that they had been im-
ported by a monumental mason who had
died a bankrupt and left them to the
mercy of a sordid world. Acquired
cheaply, they found a home in Manly,
much to the disgust of the old inhabi-
tant and others of his generation. Par-
ticularly did he speak with venom of one
member of the marble group, whom he
described as the “Dame.”
“Hell to her!” ne said. “She had a
look on her phiz that used to make me
feel like dirt under her feet.”
At the harbor end of the Corso was
another statue, representing a bowed and
disconsolate female with a broken urn,
into which she seemed to be permanently
weeping, clutched in her hands. Called
“Niobe” by the lads of the place, she con-
tinued to sadden and sober even the
gayest of them with her utter misery and
wretchedness. Other statues, all of them
gloomy of mien, occupied positions along
the Corso, but I gathered from my infor-
mant that none of them so visibly and
dismally damaged the gay and sunny
spirits of the people of Manly as did
Niobe and the Dame—the one with her
woe and the other with her scorn.
“Not only the permanent residents of
the place were made unhappy by the sight
of the statues, but others as well, others
that only glimpsed them and passed by,”
said the old inhabitant.
“Trippers to Manly, holiday folk bent
on spending sunny hours on the sands
and under the pines, gaily stepping from
boat to pier and from pier to Corso, when
they encountered the weepful figure of
Niobe felt somehow as though a cloud
had come between them and the sun.
Strangely moved by the spectacle of her
grief, they would pause in her presence
for a moment as though to condole with
her and then move onward with feet that
stepped less lightly.
“Then, as statue after statue confronted
them in weird succession, they would find
themselves thinking now and then of
some place of graves that they had visited
on some near or far occasion in the past.
“But when their walk took them to the
spot where the Dame stood, sneering and
scornful, they would find themselves
shrinking away from her as though they
had been found guilty of some unpardon-
able meanness.
“Galled beyond endurance, a few of us
determined to free ourselves of the hateful
domination. Our opportunity came along
on a night when the police were away
at Dee why fighting a bushfire and the
shopkeepers on the Corso had shuttered
up and gone to bed.
“We harmed none but one ; simply re-
moved them from their bases and stood
them up on street corners and in door-
ways.
“We chose the doorways of people
who had voiced their appreciation of
them and considered them an ornament
to the town.
“The statue of Niobe, with all care and
gentleness, we carried down to the wharf,
and there we left it leaning over a top
rail, placed so that it could add its tears
to the rising tide.”
“And the statue that did not escape
harm, what of it?” I queried.
“The Dame’s!” he said maliciously.
“She had her head belted off her shoul-
ders and it went rolling into the gutter,
where it lay under a street lamp with phiz
upturned, the sneer still on it.”
111.
T ATER on Manly suffered under an-
*— other grievance, one that did not lay
strangling hands on her alone, but that
affected all the sisterhood of beaches lying
north and south of her.
The grievance under which Manly
groaned was an interdiction, as medieval
and strangely out of place as Dailey’s
castle on the hill, which forbade any
member of the community, whether
garbed or garbless, to swim, shoot or
wallow in the surf between certain hours
of the day, those hours stretching over a
period when so to swim, shoot and wal-
low therein would be to know joy in its
amplest measure.
With the shade heat somewhere in the
nineties and the air so hot that even the
pine-trees on the beach sweated thick
resinous drops that covered the seats and
paths beneath them with sticky damp-
ness, the patience of* a people denied the
luxury of cool immersion in the surf
gave way to growls and curses.
Intensified was the bitterness of their
discontent when they watched a salmon
show a silver side in the slant of a wave or
a shoal of porpoises joyfully shooting the
breakers with grace and celerity. Neigh-
bored by vast areas of water, and denied
the right of indulging their amphibian
yearnings in it, it was little wonder that
they growled and cursed, growled and
cursed in boat and bar, but did that and
nothing more to unseat the incubus that
oppressed them.
Then, to champion their cause and
bring about their liberation, into the
breach stepped W. H. G ocher.
Somewhat like Hampden in his auda-
city, Gocher forthwith threw down a
challenge to the little tyrants of the sea-
side suburb. As editor of the local paper
he had long urged the abolition of the
imposition under which they groaned.
Words he had used, columns and columns
of them, to achieve his end, but without
success. Now he had determined on
action, to act and take the consequences,
whatever they might be.
On a certain sizzling day when loungers
languished under the pines of Manly, wist-
fully watching the wash of waves on the
ocean beach or ruefully regarding the
cool, clean waters of the harbor, copies
of the local paper were handed to them
containing an announcement of startling
import: William Gocher, its editor, in
defiance of the law which denied the resi-
dents of Manly the right of all-day bath-
ing in the open, would bathe publicly in
the surf on the Sunday that followed the
paper's date of issue. All in sympathy
with the movement were asked to sup-
port it with their presence on the South
Steyne between eleven and twelve on the
day indicated. The police and aldermen
were specially invited to put in an appear-
ance, thus lending the occasion their sanc-
tion and approval.
'T'RUE to his challenge, on the following
1 Sunday towards the noon hour, ac-
companied by a few trusty henchmen, the
champion made his appearance on the
beach, where he was greeted with hand-
shakes and cries of encouragement from
a waiting crowd.
“Good on you, Gocher! ”
“Bill’s the man for Manly!”
“Up with Gocher and down with the
tyrants! ”
A voice from the outskirts of the crowd,
high above all other voices, was heard
shouting “To hell with them and their
laws and by-laws! It’s a brave man you
are. Bill Gocher, and here’s one that’s
with you heart and soul, fist and purse to
the end!”
It was a brave day, too, a day on which
Nature seemed to smile approval, with
sunshine lighting up the racing waves, and
the whole sea-scene a-toss as though with
blazing banners.
Gocher made his way to the waters
edge and plunged into the surf; and then,
as though revelling in the luxury of the
moment and charged with elemental joy,
swam out and out. Watched by the
envious and admiring eyes of the crowd
on shore, he breasted or pierced the waves
till, finding one that suited him, he turned
and came hurtling in on its crest.
Reaching the beach and rising from
the shallows, he then faced the onlookers,
and with a wide gesture of hand con-
ferred on them the Freedom of the Suit
for all time —a freedom which none darea
thereafter to deny them, a freedom which
was not confined to Manly alone but
ranged over all the beaches north and
south of it.
Though to Gocher is due in great part
the popularity and prosperity of the sea-
side suburbs, and the health and happi-
ness of many city and country dwellers,
the only recognition he and his work have
so far received is a line on a stone in
Waverley Cemetery which speaks pt him
as the “Originator of All-day Surf Bath-
ing: Manly, 1902.”


The Bulletin
Vol. 64.—N0. 3320.
Wednesday, September 29, 1943.
TO PAPUA, VIA BRISBANE LINE.
“Mr. Ward has been appointed Minister of External Territories.”
“Now all boy look along me-fella! Me strong fella marster too much!”


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper
“Australia for the White Man”
Directors:
H. K. Prior . J. E. Webb
P. H. Prior David Adams
HEAD OFFICE: 252 George Street, Sydney:
Box 252IBB; ’Phone 87971.
Victoria: Newspaper House, 247-249 Collins
Street, Melbourne.
Queensland: 239 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
Westralia : 33 Barrack Street, Perth.
New Zealand ; Nathan’s Buildings lopp.
G.P.0.), Wellington.
London: 1 Hare Place , 47 Fleet Street,
London. E.C.4.
MENZIES, LEADER.
The Opposition parties at Canberra, the
larger group under two names, were allied
for 20 years. It is curious that they
should have decided to resume their in-
dependence just when the U.A.P. and
the Country party in Victoria have ended
a quarrel which began in April, 1935,
and come together in a Ministry under
Mr. Dunstan’s leadership.
Certainly the gentlemen at Canberra
parted company in an amicable spirit.
Mr. Menzies became leader of the U.A.P.,
and as such leader of the Opposition,
with Mr. Hughes—for once effacing him-
self, in philosophic acceptance of the
probability that this will be his last Par-
liament —as deputy leader. Unlike Mr.
Menzies, who had to go to a ballot, Mr.
Fadden was re-elected leader of the
Country party without opposition, and
so was Mr. McEwen as deputy leader.
There was “a brief joint meeting,” at
which “proceedings were very friendly”
and “it was explained by both party
leaders that each party felt that it would
develop its fullest strength by not con-
tinuing to have a joint Opposition,”
though the principle of association was
not rejected. On the contrary:
It was agreed that on important matters
the practice of holding joint meetings would
continue, and that the leader and deputy
leader of each party would act on such
matters in the House in close co-operation.
At a meeting of the smaller group “it
was decided that the Country .party
should act as a separate unit in Parlia-
ment in the fullest co-operation with the
U.A.P.” That party has 14 members in
the House and the Country party nine.
Perhaps as a result of the developments
in Victoria Mr. Wilson will make it 10.
Perhaps not.
Leading the Opposition will be a new
experience for Mr. Menzies, who became
Prime Minister without having led a
party. Fortified by the knowledge that
much of the shabby personal antagonism
to him has disappeared—though the
party had a great fall in other States, in
Victoria all the U.A.P. Ms.H.R. were re-
elected and his own majority was great —
he aspires to “re-create the Opposition as
a living political entity,” and if he fails it
will not be for lack of unsolicited ad-
vice. That commodity has been heaved
at him from quarters which have hitherto
been unfriendly.
“S. M. Herald,” for instance, is ready
to forgive Mr. Menzies all the harm
it has done him and his party.
By running “outstanding candidates”
against his loyal supporters the “Herald”
split the party vote in N. S. Wales when
he was Prime Minister, a Prime Minister
cruelly deprived, by death of three able
Ministers (and incidentally of the safe
Victorian seat that went to Mr. Coles)
only six weeks before polling-day, and in
the late election campaign liberal use
was made in Labor propaganda of
“Herald” attacks on Mr. Menzies and
panegyrics on Mr. Curtin. But, saying
good-bye to all that, the “Herald” volun-
teers the information that “there must be
an effective party to lead the multitude of
over-regimented Australians who believe
that the peace must be built, not by an
intensification of Government controls,
but by broad programmes of social
security.” Australia was settled by people
who did not demand “social security” as
a condition precedent to their exertions ;
but that is by the way. What is meant
by “broad programmes of social
security,” how they are to be financed out
of the straitened means of a country
which is shooting away a large part of
its national income and mortgaging its
future on a colossal scale and how they
are to be introduced without “an intensi-
fication of Government controls” the
“Herald” generously permits Mr. Men-
zies to work out in his own way, that in
its evident opinion being what Mr. Men-
zies as the new U.A.P. leader is for.
Mr. A. H. Moverly, of Sydney, is also
convinced that Mr. Menzies should some-
how contrive to be a doting grandmother
with a bottomless purse. Mr. Moverly
is specially interested in “the young
people,” who, he says, “will want a newer
and better order than has existed in the
past, and the U.A.P. should provide what
is required.” Mr. Menzies might protest
that this is vague and woolly, but as a
defeated M.L.A. Mr. Moverly is a figure
of some consequence in the Sydney
U.A.P., so Mr. Menzies had better not.
The council of the Sydney U.A.P. has
another idea —“that energetic steps be
taken to form a Commonwealth-wide
party to include all factions and sections
opposed to socialism,” and the Mel-
bourne U.A.P. is willing to come in on
that basis. And, presumably, if one nega-
tive is deemed insufficient the gentlemen
will be willing to fashion a whole neck-
lace of negatives.
Mr. Menzies has never been a vote-
catcher. One of the remembered things
he said as Prime Minister was that “if
there is a vote for sale in Tasmania, I
don’t want to buy it: this is a time for
sacrifice and service, not for promises
and bartering of votes.” There is no
reason to fear that he will descend from
that high level to placate those who see
in the struggle of parties little more than
a bribery competition.
If the U.A.P. is to come back it will
have to go in for positive things,
not for mere sterile opposition to
socialism, plus a “better-than-Labor”
distribution of alms. It will have to
stand for free enterprise, without
which there will be no chance of get-
ting men and money from the United
States ; for anti-inflationary finance ; for
a system of taxation which will save the
middle class, now in danger of extinc-
tion ; for the decentralisation of industry
(here the Menzies Government made an
excellent start), the opening up of
neglected ports and the ending of all
undue forms of preference which have
contributed to the excessive and, as the
war has proved, dangerous concentration
of people, wealth and political power in
the Big Cities. It should stand also for
complete and unchallengeable national
control of national matters, education
among them (we can scarcely claim to
be an educated democracy when half a
million adults cannot mark ballot papers
correctly); for the use of political action
not to get jobs and make careers for “the
young people,” but to establish condi-
tions under which they will get jobs and
make careers for themselves ; for the rule
of law, not mob law, in the trade-union
world; for loyal co-operation with the
other parts of the British Commonwealth
and friendly association with the United
States; for universal liability to training
and service, with no exemption for any
part of the forces from the principle of
equality of obligation and risk, during the
war and afterwards; and for large-
minded measures designed to “bind up the
nation’s wounds and care for him who
shall have borne the battle and his widow
and his orphan.”
In essence, the U.A.P. should be a party
of principle. Expediency may prevail for
a time, but principle will always beat it
in the long run.
Beating the Japs.
Generals and admirals engaged in dish-
ing the Japs are more confident than ever
before of ultimate success. General Mac-
Arthur, who has paid a high tribute to
the A.I.F. —“magnificent troops, unsur-
passed in the world” —declared last month
that the Japs on the Pacific fronts had
exhausted their fullest resources of con-
centrated attack, had failed, and were
now on the defensive. Admiral Halsey
has expressed similar confidence. On the
authority of U.S. Major-General H. H.
Fuller, whose division has been in
the tough fighting in New Guinea, there
are signs that the morale of Jap troops
is cracking.
General MacArthur stated, however,
that he would “make no predictions as
to the time or detail” of when the Jap
defences would yield. Admiral Halsey,
who once had the idea that the war in the
Pacific would be over this year, now re-
fuses “to gaze into the crystal bowl any
more.” General Fuller warns the opti-
mists that there is a lot of fight left in the
Japs yet. And last week'President Roose-
velt joined in to insist: “We face, in the
Orient, a long and difficult fight. We
must be prepared for heavy losses in win-
ning that fight. The Japanese won’t col-
lapse until they are pounded into dust.”
That is in strong contrast to the wide-
spread false optimism engendered in Aus-
tralia by pre-election statements and in
America by the Mediterranean successes.
It reached such a stage in America that
a couple of months back it was being
blamed for a serious falling-off in pro-
duction of war materials. To rectify this
and get the country back into a more
realistic frame of mind a vigorous steady-
ing campaign had to be launched. This
is still going on, with all responsible
leaders, from the President down, ham-
mering away at it day after day. They
could be emulated in Australia with ad-
vantage to the war effort here, and parti-
cularly to the current loan ; for, though
the generals and admirals have reason to
be satisfied that the Jap has been stopped,
none of them suggests that the Jap has
been defeated, and all of them would
agree that it will take every ounce of
effort and every shilling that can be
raked up before that necessary job is
done.
In the American home-front steadying
campaign Vice-Admiral Horne, vice-chief
of U.S. naval operations, delivered the
most staggering punch—that the “U.S.
Navy is planning for a war that will con-
tinue until 1949.” “And that,” he added,
“is not pessimistic. It is based on the
tremendous distances we still have to go ;
the fact that, as we advance in the
Pacific, we have to build bases right from
the ground up, with everything brought
thousands and thousands of miles.” Also,
he said, it was based on “the naval losses
we expect to have.”
A correspondent who canvassed mili-
tary and naval leaders on this remarkable
statement reported that, while few of
them expected the war in the Pacific to
last till 1949, the most optimistic of
them did not expect it to be over before
1946. Their general view was: “We are
now mastering the last approaches. The
big climb, the long, exhausting and dan-
gerous climb, is just ahead.”
Said Secretary-of-the-Navy Knox: “I
haven’t found a single well-informed
military man with any idea that the war
is nearly won. In fact, they almost uni-
formly use the same expression—that we
have made a good start and have broken
down the enemy’s outer defences. But
we haven’t begun to dig into his main
fortress.”
“We have a long, difficult task ahead,
beset, I fear, with much blood and sweat
and tears,” said America’s last Ambas-
sador to Tokyo, Joseph C. Grew, now
special assistant to the U.S. Secretary
of State. “There is too much fallacious
thinking to the effect that once we get
around to it we shall have little difficulty
conquering Japan.”
It was pointed out also that in a
full year of desperate fighting in the
Solomons —some 3000 miles from Tokyo
—American forces had advanced about
200 miles. “Assuming that we do as well
in the future as in the past we shall be
able to make a bloody landing in Tokyo
14 years hence, in the summer of 1957.”
Contending that this war in the Pacific
is going to be long and extremely difficult
to win, American “Life” holds out as
the only hope for the contrary the use of
Russian bases, which it considers highly
unlikely. Any of the alternate routes
“must involve years of fighting at the
extremities of 500(Lmile supply lines.”
The Japanese defence set-up, as “Life”
sees it, is, first of all, the outer ring of
Jap-conquered countries and territory, and
so far only a few small bits of the outer
rim of this outer ring have been taken,
at heavy cost. Next there is the inner
ring of Japan’s own very powerfully de-
fended bases set in a strategic arc that
must be difficult to penetrate. Then, at
the heart of the system, there is Japan
itself to be conquered.
How anyone can be taken in by such
soft soap as that this prospect is nothing
but a football match, with the Jap as the
ball, is past understanding. In the first
phase—the biting into the outer rim—it
has been tough enough. Unless the crack-
ing of Jap morale becomes infinitely
worse than anything so far noted, the
going is likely to become tougher, not
easier, with the first phase over and
smashing at the inner defence-ring be-
gun. Even then it will still be a long way
to Tokyo ; and Japan, it should not be
overlooked, has the advantage over the
German “fortress” of being a front-rank
naval Power.
In America, getting at Japan itself has
been rated as “the most difficult strategi-
cal problem in military history.” Any of
the possible routes must involve am-
phibious operations, the most difficult of
all methods of attack. One route, which has
been advocated by General MacArthur,
is fighting a way back to the Philippines,
which would mean cutting off the outer-
defence ring and getting to within long-
distance bomber range of Japan. Another
is striking north from the Solomons, with
very considerable obstacles —including
Truk —on the way, and big naval battles
to be fought. Another is striking across
from the Aleutians, also no soft snap.
Another is through the Burma jungles.
and so on up to Korea, which, it is held,
could well take years. One American
view of the prospect, using any or all
of these possible routes, is that
No nation has ever been in' a more
awkward strategical situation than the
U.S.A. And whether we can work or
fight out of this situation to a future that
we can be proud of is the greatest challenge
we have ever faced. We have barely begun
to face it.
That view, however, would appear to
be based on an “island-hopping” ap-
proach, on which General MacArthur
has made an important statement.
General MacArthur’s strategic concep-
tion “contemplates massive strokes
against only the main strategic objec-
tives, using surprise and air-ground strik-
ing power supported and assisted by the
Fleet.”
This is the very opposite to “island-hop-
ping,” which is a gradual pushing-back of
the enemy by direct frontal pressure, with
consequent heavy casualties. .Key points
must, of course, be taken, but a wise choice
will obviate the need for storming the
mass of islands now in enemy possession.
Commenting on newspaper references
to the “planning for a war that will con-
tinue till 1949,” General MacArthur said:
“Island-hopping,” with extravagant losses
and slow progress, is not my idea of how
to end the war as soon and as cheaply as
possible. *
The strategy here outlined by a leader
who has proved as sound in surprise
offensive action as in earlier stubborn
defensive and then holding actions
amounts to turning their own by-passing
tactics against the Japs, It proposes —
using Australia as the main base—cut-
ting off the Jap advance posts from Japan.
General MacArthur does not suggest that
this is going to be easy, but neither does
he expect it to require many years to
accomplish. He holds that it will be
done cheaper than by frontal “island-
hopping,” but he does not say that it will
be done cheaply. Obviously, if he is
to have the support in it from the Aus-
tralian Government which this Govern-
ment is a hundred times too indebted to
him to think of denying, there will have
to be a drastic amending of the militia-
service boundaries, despite late elec-
tioneering lines of appeal to the contrary.
Meanwhile, there is every reason to
believe that the Japs are busily strengthen-
ing all three parts of their defence sys-
tem, and that many in the conquered
countries are busily aiding them. An
American war correspondent, Harold
Guard, last month ended a 10-week air
tour over nearly 1,000,000 square miles
of water and islands embraced in General
MacArthur’s command. On his observa-
tions the correspondent reported that,
though Jap strength in New Guinea, New
Britain and the Solomons appeared to be
on the wane, west of New Guinea —in
the Celebes, in Timor apd\in Java —the
Japs are building up their forces and in-
stallations, everywhere bolstering their
defences in anticipation of an Allied
drive.
Meanwhile, also, practically nothing of
a reliable nature can be learned of the
progress being made by the Japs in selling
their Asia-for-the-Asiatics propaganda to
those concerned. One hopeful view is
that, because of their brutishness, they
are doing little better in this line else-
where than they have done in China. It
is to be hoped that this is correct. Other-
wise there will be other than Jap troops
to fight on the way to Tokyo ; as to
which, a British authority on jungle war-
fare lately pointed out in London “Times
that the most valuable troops for this
kind of fighting over a long period are
those recruited on the spot from people
accustomed all their lives to tropical
conditions.
A less heartening view is that already
the Jap “Co-Prosperity Sphere’* stunt has
made such progress as to be ominous and
menacing.
In America it has been said acidly that
the only reason the former cries from
Australia for increased aid are no longer
heard is that Australians now feel that
they themselves are safe from attack.
Against this. Admiral Halsey, among
others, has stated that more and more
supplies are reaching the Pacific. It has
been claimed, also, that so far the huge
total of 574 Jap ships has already been
sunk. Again, recent land victories in the
north would appear by report to have
been accomplished more easily than such
victories in the past, and, as well, it is
now a comforting time since the Japs had
a win anywhere outside China. On the
contrary, they are steadily losing, and
they have never had that experience be-
fore.
Time will show what effect more and
more losings will have on Jap fighting
quality, but on all present evidence it still
looks as if that time will be long, not
short, and that Australia must brace it-
self for heavier casualties. It will be a
blessing indeed if this proves to be wiong
and the optimists right, but for the
present at least the actualities of the pros-
pect appear to be against the optimists.


PLAIN ENGLISH
Pay-as-you-earn.
Sir Kingsley Wood, the Chancellor of
the Exchequer, died suddenly just as he
was about to introduce the pay-as-you-
earn principle for 10,000,000 Britons sub-
ject to income tax. His war-finance-
measures will be his monument, and pay-
as-you-earn will be remembered as grate-
fully as post-war credits.
The British financial year begins on
April 1 and pay-as-you-earn will start in
the first week. In a White Paper of which
a Sydney “Herald” correspondent has
given an excellent summary it is set forth
that “the new system will automatically
adjust the weekly deduction of tax to
any rise or fall in wages, and at the same
time will relate the weekly deduction to
liability for the whole year.”
Tax deducted from earnings in any year
will represent the liability for that year
measured by earnings. Deduction of tax
week by week will keep pace with the
accruing liability. The system will apply,
not only to all wage-earners employed on
manual work, but also to all other wage-
earners whose wages are calculated weekly.
According to the “Times,” “the scheme
has the support of the Employers’ Federa-
tion and the Trade-union Congress.”
The weekly-wage-earner will be freed
from his present worries about arrears of
tax. The changed basis of taxation dissi-
pates at one stroke one of the great per-
plexities which might have risen at the end
of the war—how to collect outstanding
debts assessed on the high war-time incomes
of workers whose earnings may be reduced
or interrupted.
In the Commonwealth these worries
and perplexities remain. Pay-as-you-earn
is as necessary in Australia as it is in
Britain, if not more so ; and it is a logical
complement of uniform income taxa-
tion. But Mr. Chifley doesn’t care for
it —or rather the Taxation Department
doesn’t, and hitherto its word has been
law.
Perhaps a little domestic difficulty will
cause Mr. Chifley to change his mind and
dare the wrath of officialdom. Mr. Law-
son, the Minister of Transport, was voted
out of his portfolio by Caucus. What he
drew from the Ministerial pool is a
secret to the general public ; but Mr.
Lang, who may be presumed to have in-
side information, said it was £2300, on
which tax was approximately £llOO.
Under the present system he must pay
that £llOO for another year. But as a pri-
vate member he will only draw £lOOO less
tax, say £BOO, so that in the coming 12
months his tax will be £3OO more than his
Parliamentary salary.
Very rough on Mr. Lawson, but many
taxpayers have had similar experiences,
and in thousands of cases the thought
that death may bring demands for two
years’ taxes out of estates already subject
to a vanishing process which the victims
have no means of arresting is a chronic
nightmare. People so circumstanced have
hitherto been steady subscribers to war
loans.
Bn.
Exit from Mr. Curtin’s happy band of
brothers Mr. George Lawson (Brisbane),
the one Australian-born Minister in the
House with experience of war at first
hand (“served in South Africa; specially
mentioned in dispatches”). Enter in his
place, with the approbation of Caucus,
Mr. Calwell (Melbourne), the risen hope
of the 1943 anti-conscriptionists. And
back into the Ministry goes Mr. Ward,
the Brisbane-Line-royal-commission re-
port notwithstanding. Mr. Ward is himself
an anti-conscriptionist, though he was re-
duced to silence on the Militia Hopscotch
Bill when it was favored by the N.S.W.
Labor organisation, whose executive had
power to deprive him of the party nomi-
nation for East Sydney. Exercise of that
power would, if he had persisted in oppo-
sition, have placed him in the same posi-
tion as his old leader, Mr. Lang, who
failed to buck the machine.
Mr. Calwell was very vocal in opposi-
tion to the Militia Hopscotch Bill, alike
in Parliament and at the meeting of the
Victorian Labor organisation which con-
demned it. There he was supported by
Senator Cameron, and both gentlemen
had the Prime Minister on the mat, send-
ing him away with a flea in his ear.
Another anti-conscription Minister, like
Senator Cameron and Mr. Ward re-
elected by Caucus, is Mr. Holloway
(Melbourne Ports), but Mr. Holloway
withdrew his opposition to the Militia
Hopscotch Bill for the sake of salary-
darity or something. The same considera-
tion or something prompted Mr. Calwell
to vote for it in the House after he had
bitterly denounced it.
Mr. Calwell had previously outlined
his views in a debate on war policy (Feb.
3, 1943):
The Casablanca conference appears to
have achieved very little. No country is
more menaced than Australia—to hold this
country needs 25 divisions and we have not
anything like that number.
The aid Australia has been getting for
some time now is very small. It must
be vastly increased, and the Australian
people will expect the Government to
continue to urge our claims in Washington
and London.... [and] express our dissatis-
faction at the manner in which our just
and reasonable claims are being ignored
and our possible fate disregarded. We have
thousands of R.A.A.F. pilots and ground
crews abroad... .and we have a right to
say to the British Government and to the
Government of the United States that suffi-
cient aircraft should be sent to this
country to enable those men to be employed
in the defence of Australia.
On the following day Mr. Calwell
spoke on the Militia Hopscotch Bill,
which excludes the Malay Peninsula,
Sumatra, the Philippines, half Borneo,
New Caledonia and many other Pacific
islands from the places to which called-up
men may be sent. “There is no military
necessity for it,” he said, “and there is no
moral obligation upon Australia to con-
script its manhood at this particular time
to send it elsewhere.”
The duty of the Commonwealth Govern-
ment is to use the Australian Army to de-
fend Australia. Is not that what the British
Government does with the British Army?
It is said that America is sending con-
scripts to our shores. The fact is that the
American Government is doing with its
troops what the American people allow it
to do. The manner in which America dis-
posed of its forces is its own business
It was only the Japanese bombing of Pearl
Harbor that brought America into the war.
We are told that the battle for the Solo-
mons has reached a critical stage, yet
members opposite think that this is the
right time to denude Australia of its man-
hood. And, strangely enough, they believe
that the people of Australia Mil agree
with them.
I am, as I always have been, an anti-
conscriptionist.... I hope that this bill will
be defeated, and if it does become law I
hope it will be a dead letter. If it does
not become a dead letter I hope that in a
few months the Labor party in conference ,
assembled will revert to the attitude which
it formerly adopted in regard to conscrip-
tion. When that occurs, I believe that
members of the Labor party in this Parlia-
ment will do their utmost to maintain the
traditional policy of the party.
And though it will be awkward if they
do, perhaps these gentlemen will, seeing
that by majority vote they have re-elected
the three anti-conscription Ministers and
shown their faith in the member for
Melbourne as well.
MacArthur's Position.
»
It has been suggested that the appoint-
ment of Admiral Lord Louis Mount-
batten as Allied Commander-in-Chief in
South-east Asia means that General
MacArthur’s part “is to be progressively
curtailed and reduced to a secondary
and subsidiary role.”
Confronted with British and U.S. press
reports to that effect, General Mac-
Arthur said: “It makes little difference
whether I or others wield the weapon,
just so the cause for which our beloved
country fights is victorious.”
The suggestion may be merely another
in the long list of mischievous press
suggestions, which include attacks on
British military leadership and the per-
petual howls for a “second front,” with
the implication that Russia has done
everything and Britain and America
nothing.
Britain is naturally determined to win
back Burma and Malaya, and a campaign
to that end could not be well conducted
by the same leader who was engaged in
beating the Japs on the front directly
north of Australia. What many appear
to overlook is the vast distances involved
in the Pacific War. It is not mere
caprice that has the extensive front here
divided into compartments. No one man
on any particular point of this vast ex-
panse could conduct operations on the
whole lot of it.
The distances in any one of the com-
partments are vast enough. The boun-
daries given out as embracing the
Mountbatten command extend over
French Indo-China, Siam, Malaya,
Sumatra and Burma, entirely excluding
India and Persia on the one side and
Australia and its direct north on the other.
There is no reason why the British
appointment should not represent a
strengthening, rather than a dividing, of
leadership in the general assault on Japan.
General MacArthur has outlined his .plan
for operations in the area under his com-
mand. It would be tragic if he were not
to have a free hand in carrying that plan
through. He has proved his great ability,
and it is evident to all that he is in-
flexibly bent on the one aim—belting the
Japs back to where they belong.
There is every good reason why
General MacArthur should be supported
in carrying out that aim, not only by his
military position being not in any way
lowered, but also by his own so far splen-
didly successful offensive being supported
by offensives simultaneously carried on
against the Japs from other quarters ; the
more the better.
PacHic-front Movies.
The authoritative “United States News”
has declared that the Japs are preparing
powerful opposition to any naval blows
that may be aimed directly at Japan.
These preparations include five new
40.000- battleships, reported about
ready for action. Also three new
15.000- cruisers. Concentration on
such heavy craft, however, is reckoned
to have cut down Japan’s capacity to
build the lighter ships needed to meet
“the kind of war America is planning.”
As against Japan’s preparations the
U.S. Navy has released figures support-
ing the claim that the “U.S. Fleet has
been expanded into the greatest sea-
power on earth.” The listing totals
14,072 vessels, including 613 fighting
ships, along with a navy air force of
18,269 ’planes. Over 300 of the combat
vessels, costing £937,500,000, have been
built since 1940. Their spearhead in the
Pacific will be “the greatest squadron of
aircraft-carriers ever assembled by the
United States.”
With the release of British ships
through the clearing of the Mediterranean
there will later be a vast naval strength
to hurl against the Japs, and American
authorities agree that vast strength will
be needed. One American admiral
reckons that, with Japan fighting defen-
sively among islands that are “anchored
aircraft-carriers,” the strength needed will
be two to one. This should subsequently
be possible, for, though Britain has lost
some 400 fighting ships in this war, the
present R.N. is still the greatest sea-
strength that Britain ever possessed.
Australia’s naval contribution will
necessarily be small, but, like the A.I.F.
and the R.A.A.F., it has thus far been,
effective out of proportion to its size, and
this will continue. Hence, because of the
exceptionally good natural fighting
quality of its men, Australia, despite its
small population, can be made reasonably
strong for its future part in the Pacific
if the present Government has the will
to plan ahead for the post-war strong
land, air and sea forces advocated by
Dr. Evatt.
Car® ©f the Old.
The public inquiry into conditions
and treatment of inmates of the State-
run Old Men’s Home at Lidcombe
(Sydney), with the inevitable crop of
allegations and denials, is now in its
second week. Early in the piece the
daily press got some good headline stuff
from statements that the inmates were
rationed to an ounce of butter a week,
that mince meat was frequently “on the
nose,” cereals weevily, meat turning
black in the boiling vessels, inmates
wretchedly clad and one, ill, neglected
and covered with flies.
How much is true or otherwise must be
left to the investigators to decide, but
the place must have been deteriorating
to make an inquiry necessary.
One of the contributing causes seems
to be shortage of staff. It was said that
the nursing staff was more than 50 p.c.
below normal strength. Generally the
staff is too small to care for the 1200-
odd inmates (360 of them over 60, 336
over 70, 150 over 80 and 13 over 90,
835 of them being in the hospital sec-
tion).
It would be interesting if every inmate
could be persuaded to say whether he’d
gone to the Home because he had no-
where else to go or whether he’d been
put there by relatives anxious to shelve
the responsibility of caring for him, to-
gether with some statement of said rela-
tives’ financial position. Nobody should
be accepted as an inmate purely because
his family wants to be rid of him. Nor
should any of these institutions be in the
Big City. Transfer of all of them to
pleasant and healthy country towns
would be a beneficial form of decentra-
lisation.
DECREE NISI BY CONSENT, WITH CUSTODY OF CHILD.


m/f
‘St
m
C. S.B.HARDWALL PLASTER
Packed in Jute Bags
PL^^^ER
THE COLONIAL SUGAR REFINING COMPANY
(Building Materials Division),
SYDNEY - - MELBOURNE - - BRISBANE - - ADELAIDE - -
LTD.
PERTH
1-43.
Specially designed to
resist more- than -
ordinary wear, this
exceptionally hard
gypsum finishing plas-
ter is recommended
for all wall surfaces
which are subject to
exceptional wear and
tear. It is, of course,
essential that this
work be done by ex-
pert plasterers.
g
ĝ
Agents:
M. Moss & Co. Pty. Ltd.,
SYDNEY.
POLITICAL POINTS
Maoriland, like Australia, had an un-
precedented number of candidates at the
general election —291 for 80 seats. At the
close of proceedings in the last Parlia-
ment there were 49 Laborites, one Demo-
cratic Laborite, 24 Nationalists and three
Independents ; three vacancies, caused by
the deaths of Paikea (Labor), Ransom
and Coates (Nationalists), had not been
filled. In the field were 77 Nationalists,
77 Laborites, 54 Democratic Laborites,
41 Independents of various shades of
opinion, 25 nominees of the People’s
Movement and 17 of the Real Democracy
Movement. Forty-three Laborites, 36
Nationalists and one Independent —
Atmore, of Nelson, who had no Labor
opponent—were elected; so Labor will
carry on with a reduced, though sufficient,
majority, and with two new Ministers —
Barclay (Agriculture) and Nordmeyer
(Health) lost their seats.
Head of the M.L. Democratic Labor
party and its sole representative in the
last Parliament was J. A. Lee, who lost an
arm and won a D.C.M. in the last war.
He came out for a new order, “based on
a new credit system,” and for “a reduc-
tion of our war commitment to one
land division, adequately reinforced,”
service to be confined to the Pacific.
Commending his followers to the elec-
tors, he said “24 have worn the uniform
in this war, 12 in this war and in the last
war, and six in the last war,” and that
among them were “an able seaman, a
naval lieutenant-commander, and all
ranks from private to captain and from
aircraftman to flying-officer.” He and
they were all defeated.
Except Brown, who was named Presi-
dent of the Senate, and Forde, who,
though his 1940 majority was substan-
tially reduced, was re-elected Deputy
P.M. and Army Minister, Queenslanders
fared badly in the Caucus distribution of
plums. Collings, no longer leader of the
Senate (he made a virtue of necessity),
just scraped into the Ministry, and has
been shoved down from sixth to
thirteenth place. Lawson, for no dis-
coverable reason —unless it was that he
was at loggerheads with Hartigan, the
N.S.W. Railway Commissioner was
voted out, and Conelan was easily
beaten for the Whipship by Sheehan, the
member for Cook (N.S.W.). Conelan
had been tipped as a certainty for
Ministerial office by Canberra correspon-
dents who call' themselves “the boys in
the back room,” and by others are called
“Curtin’s circus.”
Curtin has transferred Ward from
Labor and National Service, in which he
was a chronic headache, to Transport
and External Territories. Calwell is
Minister of Information. Both ap-
pointments suggest humorlessness or
subtle irony. However, a Sydney paper,
the “Sun,” takes the Calwell appoint-
ment seriously and advises him to con-
centrate on “selling Australia abroad,”
mentioning the U.S.A. as si particularly
suitable field for his exertions.
Ward’s first discovery as Minister of
External Territories was that “the
Fuzzy-Wuzzy angels” had been vic-
tims of “shabby treatment,” and would
require “a comprehensive plan of social
betterment,” presumably as Paddington
understands it. “It has taken this war,”
he blithered, “to make many people
realise that the Fuzzy-Wuzzy angels are
worthy charges of the Commonwealth.”
It has certainly taken invasion to make
Ward and the rest of the Labor poli-
ticians realise that they were worthy of
being defended by militia forces; if
Ward had had his way there would have
been no miMtia in any of the islands. As
for the charge of “shabby treatment,” it
amounts to a libel on the honored
memory of Hubert Murray.
Australia has eighty (80) Ministers, and
the Lord knows how half of them manage
to keep up the pretence that they are
fully employed. There are 19 at Can-
berra, 15 at Sydney, 12 at Melbourne,
10 at Brisbane, nine each at Perth and
Hobart and six at Adelaide, and only
at Adelaide can the number be said to
be within reason, though Dunstan, like
Playford, has never spared himself.
When it was suggested that a Vic-
torian Labor Government might be kept
“NEVER MIND-A, ADOLF—YOU STILL GOT-A ME!”
in office by the U.A.P., Holland brought
down the House by saying that “any
progeny out of this marriage of con-,
venience would not be registered in the
stud-book.” Fellow-members are wait-
ing for the member for Flemmgton to
think up something equally juicy about
the U.A.P.-U.C.P. union. It is thought
that hisTnventive faculties must have been
stimulated by his h f a ™f a
o£ ‘ he Government that lasted 48 hours
Miss Tangney, he first Senator of her
sex, has one good idea—Commonwealth
control of education, and as a teacher
by calling she can claim to speak with
first-hand knowledge of the need. The
lady is suspected of believing t a
Government should provide for every-
body from the cradle to the grave. Corn-
monwealth control of education is tar
more pertinent and practicable.
That Churchill has a softspot m his
heart for the Ninth A.I.F. Division was
shown when, referring in the Commons
to the taking of Salamaua and Lae, he
said it had furnished another opportunity
for the Ninth to display to the Japanese
the qualities which the Germans had
tested at El Alamein. Because the
Australian authorities are far less com-
municative in these matters than the
British, he could perhaps have scarcely
been expected to know that the
Sixth and Seventh Divisions share
in the glory, or to be conversant with
the facts of the Seventeenth Brigade’s
wonderful fight from Wau to Komiatum
and beyond. If he knew all he might
wonder that, with 820,000 Australians in
uniform, Middle East veterans have had
to do so much in a region where nature
and disease are enemies only less deadly
than the Jap. Meanwhile, Mr. Ward’s
heart is bleeding for the natives, and
soldier-jockeys and -pugs are in hard
training for spring engagements, with the
full approval of Mr. Forde.
A Sydney employers’ group has issued
a “strike diary” for the first six months
of 1943. It shows that on every “work-
ing” day in that period there was a strike
of some sort, causes ranging from
Government “handling of the Christ-
mas holidays” (35,000 metal workers
objected) to a coal strike because
a homing bus had broken down,
All this, of course, was in Ward’s
time. A copy of the diary should be
sent to Holloway, his successor, and an-
other to Forde, who says he is “taking
steps” to improve the coal position, now
unspeakable in spite of his Government’s
pyramid of anti-strike regs.
TThprp hnvp been “fiprv exchanees” be-
1 here nave been nery exchanges oe
tween Cjovernment and Labor mem-
bers” in the Victorian Assembly ; but no-
body was alarmed. The boys have known
pqpE ntbpr cn lomt and have sat beside
each other so long ana nave sat oesiae
and opposite each other so many years
that they understand each other perfectly,
c cU7 . Mm ,i.
One of the twc/N.S.W. Assembly by-
elections must have been a relief to
Heffron, the McKell Minister for
xr X 7 c r nr a u r : p f timp „ aV p him
N.E.S. for a brief time it gave mm
something to do, though the something
was confined to Lachlan: there was no
McKell runner in Willoughby. A blunder ;
as it was, young Billy Wood, the Second-
Fronter, got the benefit of the consider-
able Labor vote. Lachlan was wrested
from the Country party by Major
Chanter, son of an old-time Common-
wealth politician.
Daylight-saving is to operate again
from October 4. It may have its points
in the cities, but out where the grass
grows and the farmer thinks his long,
long thoughts it’s hard to persuade the
chooks to get up, the wheat to dry out
for stripping, the rabbits to stop eating
the oats and the kids to go to sleep an
hour earlier. Westralian politicians pro-
test that the edict was issued in defiance
of their unanimous protest.
Menzies, speaking on the address-in-
reply, surveyed the packed Labor
benches, expressed regret at the P.M.’s
absence (he has had ’flu) and added:
I feel he would have had the same feel-
ings as the Duke of Wellington once had
when recruits were parading before him.
The duke said to them, “I do not know
what effect you will have on the enemy,
but you terrify me.”
And nobody could be quite certain what
Robert meant.
With the swearing-in of Cain and his
Ministers, Australia had (though only for
a couple of days) six Labor Govern-
ments for the second time. The first
was in 1915; the difference is that Vic-
toria then had the only non-Labor Gov-
ernment. When the smoke of the con-
scription fights cleared away Queensland
had the only Labor Government.
After the Casablanca conference
Churchill was charged in the Commons
with having received only one of the
French parties in North Africa, the
Giraudist. He disarmed his critic and
made the House laugh by replying that
he had in fact listened to the represen-
tations of French politicians “of every
hue.” He was equally happy in relating
to the Commoners how Musso. got away.
It was not possible to hand Mussolini
over before the landing in Italy, as that
would have disclosed our intention to the
enemy. The Italians in possession of hjm
had still to appear as allies of Germany.
The Badoglio Government took carefully
conceived measures to hold Mussolini, but
did not provide against a parachute descent.
Carabinieri had orders to shoot him if
there were any attempt at rescue, but,
having regard to the larger German forces
which descended from the air, they failed
in their duty.
“Having regard to” is superb.
In other days there was no such thing
as being a.w.l. or a.w.0.1. The thing
was called desertion, and even the benign
and merciful Lincoln had deserters shot.
In Sydney recently five deserters were
convicted of housebreaking, three having
been concerned in 34 cases in three
weeks ; and for a change they were called
deserters. If the change became official
and general there might not be so many
deserters, Forde admitted at an A.L.P.
conference that there had been as many
as 10,000 at one time. In time of war
no glozing term should be applied to an
offence destructive of discipline and pro-
ductive of crime.
An impending argument:
A clash between A.B.C. and the Curtin Gov-
ernment is anticipated. A couple of months
before the election A.B.C. asked the Govern-
ment to sanction a plan whereby all the news
broadcast through national stations would be
taken from metropolitan daily newspapers. This
would have meant dismissing A.B.C.’s own
news-gathering staff at home and abroad and
the surrender of a measure of'independence in
the collection of news, and Labor objected.
Nevertheless A.B.C. took the bit in its teeth and
practically disbanded its Canberra news staff;
and on that score and others Curtin is likely
to ask awkward questions. A.B.C. made a
bad slip when it refused to allow Australian
listeners to hear a Curtin speech broadcast to
the U.S.A. That must have rankled, and
another bone of contention is a Commission
proposal to send T. W. Bearup abroad. To
that the Government objected, and the objec-
tion is likely to be repeated in harsher terms,
since it amounts to sending a senior officer
overseas to buy syndicated programmes.


■m
Eli
Look After What You’ve Got!
Get your Exide dealer to give your battery “the once over” occasionally . . and
when replacement is needed remember . . . Exide Still Keeps Going When the Rest
Have Stopped.
ItXlde BATTERIES
EXB2-42
Let this be Your
Wartime Slogan.
PERSONAL ITEMS
The citatioii accompanying the appoint-
ment of Director-General of Munitions
and Aircraft Production Essington Lewis
to membership of the Order of Com-
panions of Honor was itself a rare honor.
“No Australian,” it stated, “has given
more unreservedly of his talents and ener-
gies in the service of his country or ren-
dered greater service in the production
of weapons for the defence of Australia
and other parts of the Empire.” The
new Companion, whose father was a
C.M.G., is a South Australian ; birth-
place, Burra. Managing director of
B.H.P. since 1926, he was the obvious
choice for the big war production job,
and all hands of whatever political color
agree that the fist he has made of it
justifies every word in the honor citation.
Chaps who go away as privates and
come back major-generals or thereabouts
have nothing on H. R. Mackenzie, who,
at 48, has been appointed State manager
of the National Bank in W.A. Mac-
kenzie went away in 1915. as a sergeant
and came back a private. Frith, who
elicited this information while making
the accompanying sketch, thought it tact-
ful not to press the question any further.
Though Frith’s version mightn’t seem to
indicate it, this South Australian Scot
(born, Renmark) has a lively wit,
even though a bank hand, asked for an
H. R. MACKENZIE.
impression of what he was like, described
him as a first-rate dour banker. Wounded
in France, where he Was with the 50th
Batt. and brigade sigs., Mackenzie has
been banking since 1912, in S.A., Vic-
toria, London and N.S.W.
A surprise of the Maoriland elections
was the defeat for the Eastern Maori seat
of Apirana Ngata, who has represented
that constituency in Parliament for 38
years. A lawyer by profession, and a
graduate in law and political science of
Canterbury College, Ngata, knighted in
1927, is the oldest and most revered of
Maori leaders. He has been actively
associated with movements for the better-
ment of his race for 40 years, and had
a term, under Ward, as Minister of
Native Affairs. Possibly his constituents
thought he is getting old and needs a
rest —he is just on 70.
Three Ministers will leave their accus-
tomed places in the M.L. Parliament
as a result of the elections. Walter Nash,
Finance Minister, though returned with a
comfortable majority by Hutt, will go
back to Washington as Minister to the
U.S.A. Rev. Arnold Henry Nordmeyer,
ex-Minister of Health, who made enemies
by a pre-war attempt to nationalise doc-
tors, has been rejected by Oamaru, and
J. G. Barclay, ex-Minister of Agriculture,
will be able to go back to his farm, his
rural electorate, Marsden, having pre-
ferred a Nationalist.
Athlete of the Apple Isle:
Percy Reginald Beauchamp, one of the
greatest athletes the Speck has evei turned out,
has passed on at 68. His father, a son of
Admiral Sir William Beauchamp, settled on the
Tamar and established the first commercial
orchard there. Percy Beauchamp, with his
brother Frank, had a great deal to do with
making E. A Nathan’s Launceston High School
practically unbeatable in sport. They played
senior football while still at school, and the
school crew, after winning the Bourke Cup, the
Speck Head of the River race of that time,
several years running, was barred by the race
being restricted to maiden schoolboy oarsmen.
P.R.8., besides winning practically every rowing
event in Tasmania, stroked Tamar Rowing Club
crews to success on the mainland. As a cyclist
he won many races, among them the 1899
Austral Wheel Race. With his winnings he
planted an orchard on the Tamar, at Rosevears,
and made it one of the best in the district.
One son is with the A.I.F.
Not all the brave are fighting. When
a ’plane crashed near Tenterfield
(N.S.W.) and caught fire, Owen Mc-
Cosker, a civilian, dashed in without
thought of danger to himself and saved
an American first lieutenant from cer-
tain death. For his gallantry McCosker
has been appointed an M.B.E.
Reginald Kirby, who lately spent 16
months attached to the R.A.A.F., six
months of it in New Guinea, is author as
well as chaplain. His books include
Bussing House, Beaufighter, Light for
Today, Fingertips of Glory and Threefold
Bond. Before joining up as a chaplain
he was a minister at the Collins-street
Baptist Church, Melbourne.
Major-Gen. A. C. Fewtrell’s stepping
out from the job of G.O.C. New South
Wales Lines of Communication Area has
led to the promotion of Major-Gen. E.
C. P. Plant to the post, Major-Gen.
Plant’s place in the similar job in Vic-
toria going to Major-Gen. C. A. Clowes.
All are outstanding soldiers. Fewtrell
has had 35 years’ service, including 15
commands and service overseas with the
Tunnellers in 1914-18. Plant was an in-
fantry officer on Gallipoli, and at 26 was
a brigade major in France. Clowes, who
was a brigade commander in the Middle
East, is best known for his notable per-
formance in command at Milne Bay.
N. S. Wales Minister for Transport
O’Sullivan has stated that Fewtrell can
take over his former position of chief
civil engineer in the State Railways when-
ever he feels like getting into harness
again.
“Simon” farewells “Pick”:
William Rumph, “Pick” of countless Bulle-
tin pars, over half a century, was born at Bib-
benluke (N.S.W.), and early acquired a fund of
bushlore and bushcraft. Show him an egg,
it was said, and he knew the kind of bird that
laid it. He had been in charge of many an
outback school, and the changing venue as well
as the rather liberal holidays of the Education
Department frequently enabled him to enjoy
“the pleasures of the pathless woods.” Retiring
from teaching and moving to Sydney, he showed
how busy a man of leisure can be. Bill Rumph
was a clever wood-carver, painter (he once
painted a flock of a thousand crossbreds with
no two alike save for their sheepish look),
decorator, lecturer and writer. Off nights were
put in at Ashfield School of Arts Debating
Society, and from him the good type of young
men who frequent such places learned that
horizons are not lost beyond Parramatta.
Of the officers present at the first Citi-
zen Air Force camp in N.S.W. (at Rich-
mond, in 1925) Rex Boyden and Heck
Ross, D.F.C., have passed on —Boyden
in the Stinson crash on the Queensland
border and Ross flying in the present
war. F. W. Lukis and G. J. W. Mclnalty
are air commodores and members of
the Air Board, and A. W. Murphy,
D. A.F.C., is also an air commo-
dore. C. S. Wiggins and G. F. Malley,
M. A.F.C., are group-captains on
staff. J. S. Moir, H. T. Hammond and
N. Mulroney are wing-commanders, and
H. Bowden Fletcher, D.F.C., is a
squadron-leader doing a job in mis war.
H. B. Gibson is on an essential war job in
the building line as a director of Stuart
Bros. C. H. F. Nobbs has been variously
reported as in England or the islands.
As well as controlling the affairs of
an extraordinary variety of institutions
and conducting a medical practice, James
Barrett, K.8.E., C. 8., C.M.G., M.D., ex-
Chancellor of Melbourne University and
now approaching his 81st year, has found
time in his long life to write almost as
many books as H. G. Wells, though on
less popular subjects for the most part.
One monumental product was The War
Work of the Y.M.C.A. in Egypt, in two
huge tomes —of course last war, in which
the busiest of knights was consulting
oculist and aurist to the troops in
Egypt. He still keeps his pen busy fight-
ing for neglected causes in the dailies.
Recently cables mentioned Queens-
lander Sidney Cotton as first to take
successful air-reconnaissance photographs
of Germany in the present war; and
Cotton took those photographs flying as
a freelance, unofficially, in a civilian
’plane, and therefore liable to be shot
down both by Germans and British.
More about Cotton has been published
in his native State. He had some of his
education at Southport before going to
Cheltenham College, Eng. Back on his
father’s station in North Queensland, he
left oil the outbreak of the 1914-18 war
to join the R.N. Air Service in England.
Later he flew his own ’plane widely over
the world, spotting seals in Newfound-
land, flying about the Gulf of Aden,
travelling throughout Germany with a
color photography process he’d acquired
from a Frenchman. For his 1939
unofficial services he was awarded the
0.8. E. A sister is private sec. to
Queensland Governor Leslie Wilson’s
lady.
H. O. (Os.) Elliott, who held Ashburn-
ham (N.S.W.) for the Country party for
nine years, is one who went back into
the wilderness with some relief. He be-
lieved in living in the district that elected
him, which meant a 300-mile trip each
way once a week while Parliament was
sitting. Now he’s back on his Mulyandry
farm, trying to hold the place together in
the absence of his two sons on military
service—a pretty solid job for a man who
thought his heavy toil was over. A
native of Forbes district, where his father
was one of the early settlers, Elliott has
left the town some monuments of his
term as its representative, including a
swimming pool, bowling green, sports
oval, domestic science and technical
schools and other improvements. No
story of cricket out his way is complete
without a mention of Elliott and his
Cumbijowa team. He’s also noted as the
man who slept through one of the worst
storms the old Tahiti ever struck on
her Pacific run, while all hands and the
cook hung on by their eyelids and awaited
the end. Having held pretty well every
public position a town and district can
offer —he’s now chairing a local War
Agricultural Committee —he can still
peel a fleece from a wether or stand up
a line of posts.
R. G. Wilton, Adelaide’s new Engineer
for Water Supply, is a last-war Digger
who lost an eye at Messines. He saw
service earlier at Gallip. with the 10th
Battalion, and was subsequently with the
R. G. WILTON.
50th, winding up as a captain. Now 51,
he’s a son of once well-known Adelaide
journalist C. R. Wilton, who wrote for
The Bulletin as “Autolicus.” R.G.
was formerly an Amateur League foot-
baller and a speedy swimmer.
Bradfield, of the Bridge:
Any “brain trust” anywhere on earth would
have invited Dr. John Job Crew Bradfield to
join it on first sight. His large head fairly
bulged with the big brain it held. It bulged
on a vast forehead and at the sides and back.
Nobody could set eyes on him without recog-
nising an exceptional man. Yet, no doubt be-
cause of a certain diffidence in his make-up,
he was not a good conversationalist away from
such topics as engineering and bridge plarining.
No hmelighter, he did not trouble to press his
claims when the English engineer Ralph Freeman
was said to have designed the Sydney Harbor
Bridge, though men in a position to know all
the facts asserted that Bradfield, and no other
person, did that iob. He also supervised the
DR. J. J. C. BRADFIELD.
building, and before it was finished was work-
ing on the plans for the Story Bridge across
the Brisbane River. Cataract and Burrinjuck
dams are other monuments to him. A Queens-
lander, born at Sandgate and educated at
Ipswich Grammar and Sydney University, he
had a brilliant career from boyhood, winning a
Queensland Government Exhibition and gradu-
ating with first-class honors and the University
Medal. He had the rare experience of seeing
his name perpetuated in his own lifetime simi-
larly in two States—in the Bradfield Highway
linking Sydney and its Northern Suburbs via the
Bridge, and the Bradfield Highway linking
Brisbane’s Bowen Terrace and Kangaroo Point.
Hobart has got into the way of acquir-
ing its Congregational pastors from Ade-
laide. L. C. Parkin held its Memorial
pulpit for many years, and H. S. Grim-
wade has just succeeded him —both S.A.
men.
Had a birthday in Adelaide, Miss Ellen
Thornber, whose school educated at the
end of last century a host of local girls
now grandmothers.
Into the silence:
In Sydney, at 97, Thomas Michael Mc-
Namara, said to be the original of Banjo
Paterson’s “Man from Snowy River.” A
Monaro (N.S.W.) native, he was an identity
of the Cloncurry (Q.) district, where a son
owns Mt. Tracey station.
Alfred Edwin Dakingsmith came from Eng-
land young, starting at Charters Towers in
1901. Transferring to N.S.W., he purchased,
rebuilt and re-equipped the Parramatta Woollen
Mills, and built Baking House, opposite Central
station. For many years he was a Chamber
of Commerce and Manufactures man and com-
pany director. One of the most widely-travelled
of businessmen, he knew America, China,
Japan and the Malay States. well, and made
numerous trips also to England and the Con-
tinent.
In Wales, former N.S.W. Land Valuation
Court Deputy Judge Hanbury Davies. He had
been abroad since 1926.
At Maleny (Q.),, at 68, Dr. John Barr Mc-
Lean, one of Australia’s most eminent surgeons.
Born at Kew (Vic.), a son of former Victorian
Government Statistician William McLean, Dr.
McLean was a foundation Fellow of the Royal
College of Surgeons, medical superintendent of
Brisbane and South Coast (Q.) hospitals for
30 years, and a past-president of the B.M.A.
As a colonel in 1914-18 he won the D.S.O.
At Wellington (Ml,), at 71, J. H. Brinsden,
accountant, son of an old-time skipper of a
windjammer trading between England and Aus-
tralia. With his parents he settled in South
Australia in the ’eighties, joined the Dunlop co.
in Melbourne, and later crossed to Christ-
church, where he introduced the first pneumatic
tyre to M.L. Subsequently he was g.m. in
M.L. for the Dunlop co.
In Melbourne, at 79, Col. David Sydney
Wanliss, former Administrator and Chief Justice
of the Mandated Territory of New Guinea.
In Sydney, at 80, T. J. Hagon. It is over
60 years since he established the Hagon Bros,
tailoring firm.


Society
"AND IT'S PRINTED
WITH WIMBLES INKS"
“M.U.R.”: There was a time when I’d
have argued that nobody could extend a
leg like the Australian and that nobody
was less likely to fall a victim to the leg-
extender than the Australian reporter.
Now I’m not so sure since reading this,
cabled at great expense by a “roving
reporter” somewhere along the Mediter-
ranean :
Experiments with pigeons in R.A.F.
pigeon message service disclose that male
pigeons fly faster than hens if
they are jealous. If a pigeon is fond of a
particular hen, he is shown the lady before
he is released with a message. He then tends
to return in very quick time. If his inter-
est in the lady appears to be waning, he
is shown her in company with a handsome
stranger before his release. All tests con-
firm that he then returns in record time.
Great flapper fodder! Unfortunately, it
doesn’t explain a point of tremendous
interest to every breeder of homing
pigeons—how they can be trained to fly
out to some point, deliver a message and
return.
*** . *
“Snarker”: Fresh back from a bush
holiday, where I saw a lot of farmers
struggling without help or hope of it to
keep their farms afloat, I see in my morn-
ing paper that army authorities may stop
leading jockeys now in the militia from
riding at “major spring fixtures.” Also
“Can you take one more? Were in a hurry!"
that professional pugs in the services may
not get off to-please the Stadium crowds,
There is an Army Reg. which declares
no soldier may get out of uniform or
indulge in civvy work for profit while
on leave, a regulation openly flouted ever
since Field-Marshal Forde said, some
months ago: “As long as a soldier
attends his training regularly on the days
he is expected to be in camp, we won’t
dictate to him what to do on leave. It
is far better for soldiers on leave to en-
gage in healthy sport than to be hanging
around with nothing to do.” Whether
professional boxing and race-riding are
healthy sports is a moot point; what
always made me sarcastic was the fact
that jockeys and pugs never missed an
engagement and, apparently, never en-
countered any military duties that took
them too far from course or ring. There
are thousands of farmers’ sons who
would be very pleased indeed to take up
their ordinary vocation every week-end,
with profit to themselves and a nation
crying out for more foodstuffs, but I’m
game to bet they’ll not get a chance to do
it. I’m also game to bet that “leading
jockeys” in the army will be on the
favorites at the coming meetings. Morale,
my children, must be maintained.
* * * »
“Plug Ugly”: Tell “Oxmead” (B.
15/9/’43) that there’s no mystery about
the origin of the American term “south-
paw” to indicate a left-hander. To
obviate the batter ever having the after-
noon sun in his eyes, baseball diamonds
are laid out with the batting-box at the
western corner. The pitcher faces west,
and his left hand is towards the south.
* * * *
“Hist”: So “Ken” (B. 15/9/’43) has
never heard a man snort! Then he never
met my late colonel, choleric and of the
old school. I picture an orderly-room,
a hardened offender on the mat, and the
adjutant breathing into the old man’s
ear “You can’t give him that, sir.
A.M.R. and O. don’t allow it.” “I’ll
say,” he snorted. A grunt is a chest noise,
but a snort is mostly nasal, produced in
the throat and nose and emitted through
the nostrils with the lips tightly closed.
It resembles in sound one bar of a snore,
emotionally produced. It is the mascu-
line of sniff. Women sniff to express
superiority and disbelief. Men, especially
old colonels, snort in anger, irritation and
disgust.
* * * *
“Zake”: Queer fellows, these Nazi
generals who get themselves captured on
the Eastern Front. Not so much in the
way they chuck overboard the Nazi
creed as in the language they use. For
instance, two of them who were taken
at Stalingrad have, according to Moscow
Radio, been broadcasting passionate pleas
to their fellowrsausage-munchers back
home to up and heave Adolf out on his
neck “in order to save the Motherland.”
For every genuine lardhead who can be
found referring to his homeland as any-
thing but the Fatherland I’ll give a pound
to A.C.F.
* H= * *
“Frosty”: Looking back over the gulf
of time, Auckland (M.L.) recalls that it is
just 60 years since her wharves first saw
a leviathan steamship—the Shaw Savill
liner Doric, 4300 tons. Her arrival was
a great occasion. The Harbor Board
chairman was so uplifted that the mantle
of prophecy fell upon him and he de-
clared that in 30 years’ time the port
would see monsters of 8000 tons, and in
60 years, possibly, floating cities of 10,000
tons. Sounds quite a silly old fellow
nowadays, doesn’t he? But only to those
who didn’t know the world of his genera-
tion. I was too far south to see the
Doric on her maiden voyage, but I well
remember the tremendous sensation
caused by the 6000-ton Gothic when she
first tied up at Lyttelton, well over half
a century ago. We were used to sailing
ships and small steamers whose sides
were just a few feet higher than the
wharf. Here was a huge hull towering
high above our heads. It seemed impos-
sible the world could produce anything
r;„ „ or r .,., QPP n their maiesties
bigger. Ive since seen tneir majesties
Mary and Elizabeth, fourteen times tne
displacement of the Gothic, but found
them not anywhere near so impressive.
*** . * „
“Curtain Raiser”: Despite “Hamer ’
(B. 8/9/’43), children with aptitude for a
vocation aren’t always successful in it.
An Australian violinist started with such
a flair that nothing seemed able to stop
him. He won scholarships and reached
concert standard long before he was 20.
Now he plays in an orchestra, A brother
also learnt the fiddle, but proved hope-
less, and ended up in a city office. But he
is still an enthusiastic musician and con-
tinues his studies in an army camp.
“Now remember , Dobbin —bring her back be five o'clock !”
“N.S.”: The Post Office has had to
announce the dismissal of a postgirl
who, finding it hard to deliver letters
in a rough and scattered outer-
suburban locality, became frantic over
loss of time and her inability to locate
some of the addresses, and tried to
burn a bundle of the letters. It just shows
the difference, A man would have taken
the letters back and explained the diffi-
culty. You never can tell what a woman
will do.
* * * *
“Bo”: Did somebody mention the new
rich? Into a Sydney store came an old
girl in a rusty black dress, 1922 model,
millinery to match. Her eye fell on an
electric refrigerator, small size, the second-
hand value of which in pre-war days
would be around £25. She gave it a
swift once-over and said “ ’Ow much?”
The salesman, who happened to be the
department manager, put it at £75. Un-
hesitatingly she produced a roll that
would have choked a python, and peeled
off seven tenners and a fiver. The address
was Surry Hills, and out of curiosity the
manager decided to deliver it himself.
The cottage was one of a long terrace
whose front verandahs are one step from
the pavement. In the 12ft.
x lift, living-room were
crammed a pianola, a maple
cabinet full of cut glass and
a huge floor model all-wave
radio. A heavy Wilton
Carpet covered the floor and
the walls were crammed
with pictures —the aston-
ished manager estimated
there was £5OO worth of
stuff in the room. The rest
of the house was similarly
stacked, with an expensive
washing machine in the little
tumbledown kitchen-cum-
laundry. To his remark that
she certainly had plenty of
stuff the frig.-buyer said:
“Well, me ole man an’ four
sons is knockin’ out £7O a
week between ’em, so we
might as well git orl we want
now! ”
“0.T.” with an affidavit:
A week after the election I happened to
visit a town wherein I’d once toiled for some
years. It has a war factory. Hearing that most
of the town worked there I went along just
as a stopwork hit the place. Out of the main
doors, overalled and greasy, came chaps who d
never done a day’s work when I knew them:
s.p. men, a bookie’s runner and others who
in my time decorated verandah posts and
kerbs. One s.p. man confessed that with
racing reduced to three days a month his
business had fallen olf and he stood a good
chance of being called up until the war factory
sprang up. This applied to others. More were
enjoying work —or what passes for it—at good
wages for the first time in their lives, and
others had been got into the place by fond
mammas anxious to save them from militia ser-
viewer fiie freely
was Q p en s j a ther in the pubs, and a two-day
race meeting netted over £5OO profit for pat-
riotic funds. “Why wouldn’t we vote Labor?”
said one of the storekeepers. I agreed with
him xhe stopwork? oh, somebody didn’t
b ke somebody else’s face or something.
* * * *
“Adelaide”: For sending a racehorse
from Bordertown (S.A., but on the Vic-
torian border) across to Ballarat by train,
an Adelaide hotelkeeper has been fined;
fi rs t case known locally—and possibly in
Australia. The defence was nervous
breakdown, caused by the loss of an
on jy son j n a r.A.A.F. flight over Ger-
many; horse was named after the son
and had not been raced. Penalty, £l5.
* * * *
“The Lang Yin”: I’m no yin o’ they
preceesians that “Oxmead” (B. 15/9/’43)
tells us aboot that get grouchy aboot
using the terrm England for Britain. A’
the same, I think there wouldna be an
England if it wasna for Scotland. But
what is an injustice tae auld Scotia is a’
these folks telling us that the terrm
“schooner,” applied to alcoholic drrinks,
is American, Sooth Austrilyan or Syd-
ney suburban. Forty years syne when I
was in Aberdeen awa’ and didna hae the
price o’ anither pint (thruppence) I’d pay
twa pennies for a “schooner” or three
bawbees for a “glass.” These were juist
chasers, to keep a’ doon. We got a gill
o’ whusky or rum for thruppence. Noo
d’ye ken why “Auld Lang Syne” brings
tears to the true Scot’s een?
* * * *
“S.T.S.”: A romance which took the
wrong turning has ended in the S.A.
Criminal Court. A Westralian stationed
in S.A. married a girl at home while on
leave, then in Adelaide courted another.
Finally, having told the latter that he
would be passing through in a troop train
last April, he was met by her father on
arrival, and told that a parson was wait-
ing on the platform. The next half-hour
saw him married and on his way again.
The romantic 2 a.m. ceremony attracted
much public sympathy, also publicity, so
that a bigamy charge followed quickly.
The defence was that defendant was
“pushed into” both marriages. The
Court thought that a £lO bond for good
behavior (meaning presumably not to
marry anyone else for a while) would
meet the case.
THE WINDBAG.
%
There are constant inflictions which most of us
That are apt to engender distaste and dislike,
Albeit you’d think that we should be inured
To what can’t be escaped and hence must be
endured.
And there’s none whose existence so much 1
deplore
As that of the sheer platitudinous bore.
It irks me, the bellow, the bleat or the bray
Of the fellow who talks when he’s nothing to
say.
Some cynic, I seem to remember, has taught
That speech was devised for concealment of
thought;
But it’s equally certain it may be applied
To showing there’s nothing that’s thoughtful to
hide. _ .
Small talk we must have in some measure, it s
true.
Or what in the world would our womenfolk do?
But how often I’ve wished I could muzzle or
slay
The fellow who yaps when he’s nothing to say.
I’ve heard him in Parliament, often enough,
Emitting huge hunks of irrelevant stuff,
Truisms too trite to raise anything more
Than a somnolent yawn or a purposeful snore.
I’ve heard him where Bumbles their repertoires
For verbal munitions —I’ve heard him in church.
No calling I know but at times can display
The fellow who spruiks when he’s nothing to say.
I listen with pleasure to those who can reach
Clear points in impressive or eloquent speech.
There’s no admonition or even advice
That isn’t worth more when it’s packed and
precise.
Deft phrases, apt arguments skilfully shown,
Though they may not convince, have a charm
of their own.
But, merciful heaven, preserve me, I pray,
From the fellow who talks when he’s nothing
to say!
N.S.W.
T. THE R.
A PROBLEM.
“Labor-leader Cain headed a Victorian Ministry
which, because of ‘the unsavory and unseemly
machinations of our opponents,’ lasted 48 hours.
Another record, in a sense,
Of brief, unstable eminence!
Thither they came and vanished thence,
Deposed by means unsporty.
Stabbed by the unexpected knife
Of base intrigue in party strife
Their crowded hours of glorious hte
Were merely eight and. forty.
They came and went ere twice the sun
Across the sky his course had run;
Their goose was cooked, their dash was
done,
Malignant stars grew stronger.
“Man wants but little here below,
One sometimes hears. It may be so,
But one surmises Cain and co.
Had wished their little longer.
A wan and woeful fate was theirs,
With hardly time to warm their chairs,
Immerse themselves in high affairs,
Display their gifts undoubted
When, smitten by a sudden shock,
A blow beneath the belt, a sock
Over the odds, they took the knock,
Incontinently outed.
But, just supposing that they drew
Their lawful Ministerial screw
If only for the day or two
Before their pipe was muted,
It sets a puzzle, you’ll allow.
That brings a furrow to the brow
What time a fellow wonders how
The figure was computed.
N.S.W.
PIPARDS.


“Clooter”: My old pal Joe Palooka,
whom I’d forgotten during the elections,
appears to have captured North Africa.
I struck him the other morning being
shown round Tunis by a U.S. general, no
less, and a mixed crowd is introduced by
the general as “Look at that, son. Those
are heroes of the British Eighth Army
and our buddies. Free French, natives,
Senegalese, Poles, Australians, New
Zealanders” Whereupon the mob
rush Joe and the Australian proves his
nationality by shouting “Hi sye, Joe, auto-
graph—eh?” and one Pole informs an-
other that it isn’t Clark “Gably” but
“Naw, naw! Joe Palooky.” It all
makes Joe a darned sight funnier than
he’s meant to be.
* * * *
“The 0.D.”: Some of the old-timers
who named various spots in this country
had a pretty taste. Take Coal and
Candle Creek on the Hawkesbury, or
Flint and Steel Point on that river. Some
others in various parts: Dog and Duck
Creek, Tom an’ Bill Swamp, Comeby-
Chance, Nevertire, Tipdray, Cold Pudding
Bridge. There are the Sow and Pigs in
Sydney Harbor and the Bitch and Pups
in the Murray River. Hundreds of tanks,
selections, town sites, etc,, bear such re-
vealing monikers as Taylor’s Terror,
Barney’s Mistake, Hobson’s Choice, but
the one that always intrigued me was a
tiny deserted farm just out of St.
Arnaud (Vic.) called Mother Carey’s
Chicken.
* * * *
“Nakhoda”; The announcement that
Alan Rowe, the Australian Director of
the Greco-Roman Museum in Alex-
andria, has discovered under the founda-
tions of Pompey’s Pillar gold and silver
plaques of the reign of Ptolemy 111 which
may throw light on the origins of the
great library of Alexandria, is a reminder
that war is a great stimulant to archaeo-
logy. The celebrated mosaic unearthed
by the A.I.F. in Palestine and the excavat-
ing of a perfectly preserved and remark-
ably ornate villa at Pompeii were some
of the fruits of the last war. French
troops in Cambodia rescued th§ enor-
mous temple-city of Angkor Wat from
its subjection to the jungle, and it was
during Raffles’s administration of Java
that British engineers discovered the 13-
centuries-old marvels of Boro Budur and
Prambanan under heaps of volcanic de-
tritus. A Buddha head from Boro Budur
has been bought by the Felton Bequest
for the National Gallery in Melbourne.
•i* H* H' •fi
“Sixenate”: A man lumbered in a recent
Sydney street brawl interested the magis-
trate. He was a stranger to the locality
and didn’t know any of the other blokes ;
he didn’t know what the fighting was
about, nor was he annoyed by seeing any
foul blows or unfair odds. “I jist saw
there was a fight on, y’r Worship, so I
bogged in,” he explained. The Beak’s per-
sistence that there must have been some
factor that made him take sides puzzled
him. “Well, y’r Worship,” he said at last,
“there was a bloke there with freckles.,
I fought on his side. I got freckles
meself.” The S.M, let it go at that and
fined him the same as the others —no
more and no less.
* * * *
“Pat Ater”: I quite agree with
“Bushwalker” (B. 22/9/’43) about the
suitability of apple-gums for city plant-
ing. I referred to them as redgums. Up
here where I live on a lower Blue Moun-
tains spur there are thousands of acres—
and thousands of Angophora lanceolata,
more sparsely watered than even those
ephemeral gums of Macquarie-street
would be, even through “Kenwood’s”
“opening two feet in diameter.” These
are on wind-swept eroded hilltops, in a
25in. annual rainfall, and they are still
glorious—in more eyes than mine. That
great botanist W. F. Blakely considered
them ideal for dry sandy ridges. They
even cling to the rocks on the lips of
steep gorges. With care and judicious
pruning they should make splendid street
trees. Why not give them a chance in-
stead of interlopers from other lands less
likely to succeed?
* * * *
“X.S.”: Unusual pledges? A Mel-
bourne pawnbroker recently had for auc-
tion a dozen bottles of the best Scotch.
A man frae Aberdeen received them as
a present from his mother, but, apparently
not trusting himself and wanting the
wherewithal to buy some Christmas
presents for his children, he popped the
precious cargo for 605., promising to call
once a week and buy one back out of
his wages. But he never came again.
« * * *
“R.J.C.” on a matter of radio tech-
nique:—
“Listening Insect” (B. 8/9/’43) evidently
knows little of the technique of sound repro-
duction. The reason his friends use radio con-
traptions is not to “muck up music” but to
compensate for the limitations of recording or
broadcasting equipment. A frequency range
of 30-8000 cycles (three octaves below to five
above middle C) is desirable for good re-
production, but broadcasting stations are limited
to a range 30-5000 cycles, and hence there is
loss of the higher overtones; moreover, the'
response over this reduced range is not quite
constant. As far as the listener is concerned the
position is even worse. The average radio re-
ceiver has a very poor response, with a wide
discrepancy between the levels at low and high
frequencies. Most receivers have so-called
“tone controls,” which accentuate the damage,
with the result that the range is only about
five octaves, with a peak around middle C, so
that even a well-recorded item sounds as though
it were being churned out on a barrel organ.
Equalising circuits are included in high-class
equipment to give response at least equal to the
originating source. A ratio of 60 to 1 may
exist between the volume levels of a full
orchestra and a solo instrument, while the maxi-
mum ratio of the recording equipment would be
about 27 to 1. “Listening Insect’s” friends prob-
ably include a volume-expanding device among
their gadgets to compensate for this limitation.
Used intelligently, these gadgets mean reproduc-
tion as faithful as any musician may desire.
* * * *
“Shep”; War-time slang? Some is
being made in N.G. No one in New
Guinea, for instance, says “There sounds
the alert.” It is “Doover’s blown.” And
“doover,” as noun or adjective, is the
most overworked word in our vocabu-
lary. The “alert” is the “doover”; a
steel helmet is a “doover” ; an unpopular
character is “a (great Australian adjec-
tive) doover!” The pedantic sometimes
refer to “doolacky,” which is almost
synonymous. The statement “doover’s
gone and the doolackies are pranging the
doovers” means that the alert has been
sounded and the enemy aircraft are
bombing the ships (or barracks or almost
anything). The enemy will often come
“ He's now wrestling with the problem of how he's going to get out
for lunch.”
“rhubarbing” over the hills, and very
often our own pet “rhubarb” will set
-out to “rhubarb” the enemy. (Where the
term comes from I don’t know, unless it
is that rhubarb prevails where salts fail.)
But, whatever the derivation of our lingo,
when the doover is blown and the doo-
lackies come over rhubarbing and trying
to prang the doolackies in the harbor
we still shuffle our plates of meat and
scarp to the nearest shelter.
* * * *
“Lao-dah” on a beautiful battle-
ground :
Naples, when I first saw it, hadn’t been
cleaned up by Mussolini. Goats were still
milked at backdoors, street shrines were piously
kept lighted, and there was a church for every day
in the year. No tram or train ran to schedule,
notions of public decency were primitive, and
when you had tired of the Farnese collection
you could bribe your way into the secret room
at the National Museum which houses the —er—-
etchings of the pleasure-loving bachelors of
Pompeii. Vesuvius, smoking a leisurely pipe in
the distance, contemplated the results of its
various eruptions, which the inhabitants have
repaired times out of number. They hadn t
succeeded so well with the devastation wrought
by the absentee landlord, though the villages
emptied by emigration still housed sufficient
population to cram the road with a continuous
traffic—bullock drays, overburdened donkeys,
cows and even women pulling carts loaded
with vegetables and olives. Motor-cars got
the right of way by brute force and the un-
canny skill of their drivers. On the mountains
fringing the Gulf of Salerno was (and doubtless
still is) a continual succession of olive groves
and vineyards, the soil for which was, carted
on the backs of generations of peasants. Many
of the orchards, in which each tree had been
treated as an individual, were deserted, the
tenants having gone looking for El Dorado
in America, to end up in New York’s Bowery.
On the ultramarine Bay of Naples every van-
tage-point was studded with the villas of artists,
poets, authors and retired businessmen from
every part of Europe. Tourists were shown
the cliff over which a Roman emperor is
alleged to have thrown his slaves by way of an
appetiser before dinner. Naples was full of white-
gloved gendarmes, soldiers, beggars, strikers,
well-dressed men and women, priests and pil-
grims, opulent cafes, good wine, paper money
and semi-starvation. Neither old Vesuvius nor
modern bombers had up till that time pro-
duced as effective a chaos as had post-war cur-
rency fluctuation.
* * * *
“Pat Ater”: That Scottish passion for
accuracy (B. 8/9/’43) is often combined
with a talent for diplomacy. On a cold
morning in January, 1917, I tumbled out
of the “Flying Scotsman” at Waverley
station, Edinburgh, and wandered up
Castle Hill way looking for a tucker joint.
The smell of coffee led me to a little shop
which the proprietor had just opened.
His welcome was as warm as the pie and
tea he put before me, and the obvious
Aussie slouch hat and uniform moving
him to conviviality he remarked “If it was-
na for the Scots and the Australians, boy,
we’d never win this war.” It is history
how well the Scotties and Diggers hit it
and swapped admiration, but I couldn t
help wondering whether that old Scots-
man pie-vendor had told a similar story
to the Canucks and the Enzeds. More
power to him if he did!
* * * *
“Chevroford”: Coal strikes in N. S.
Wales produced the strangest case of
salvage. Melbourne Harbor Trust was at
its wit’s end to find fuel for its services,
and it was rumored round the toyra that
it had discovered a coalmine in Port
Phillip. Chairman McKenzie hastened to
announce that there Would be no wild-
cat company-promoting. Over many
years coal has been dropped from the
bucket chains while ships were being
loaded, so he put a dredge to work and
lifted enough fuel to enable two steamers
to sail with fuff bunkers.
* * * *
“Petermac”: Twelve months ago an
Eyetie shell buried a Tobrul#Rat for six
hours. Rescued, he lay many months at
death’s door with a head injury, but re-
covered sufficiently to return to Australia
and get his discharge. On the very anni-
versary of the day he copped his injury
a tram lurched and a heavy bag held by
a straphanger fell on him. t He is now
back receiving treatment at the hospital
which he joyfully left four months ago,
pondering on the perils of civilian existence.
*" * * *
“Ear Punisher”: If the liaison between
Australia and the U.S.A. is maintained
after the war an enormous impetus is
likely to be given to lecturing. This is
one of the major industries of the States,
where a constant stream of literary, scien-
tific and political personages, many from
England, keeps the pot of discussion
going. When Max Meldrum was over
there he was put on a nation-wide radio
circuit, and told more people his views
on art in a few weeks than ever heard of
his existence in Melbourne.
* * * *
“S.T.S.”: I felt older for the passing
of Tom Garrett, last survivor of Aus-
tralia’s first Test-match win in England,
the famous seven-runs game at Kenning-
ton Oval late in 1882. I saw the lot of
that team; came down specially from
the Isle of Man for that match, and then
nearly lost all the thrill by leaving the
ground for another appointment at five
o’clock when our case seemed hopeless
—England 85 to make, and only two
wickets down for 60. Happily, I stayed
on. Garrett was, of course, always over- 1
shadowed by that unique combination
Spofforth and Boyle, but he got literally
hundreds of wickets on his various tours,
and even took one scalp in that great
game. One was glad to see him become
Public Trustee in Sydney afterwards,
while some of his contemporaries had
sacrificed business for cricket. I remem-
ber a quiet lunch on the Sydney ground,
Christmas, 1921, with president Teece
and the opposing captains, Mailey and
Vic Richardson, also Harry Moses, to
whom I said “Now, why would you never
go to England?” (which he could have
done in the late ’eighties and early
’nineties). “Well,” he said thoughtfully,
“my firm didn’t fancy it; and my wife
didn’t fancy it. And do you think I was
wrong?” And, looking back on those
too-enthusiastic contemporaries (Spofforth
and Murdoch excepted), one couldn’t say
that he was.
* * * *
“Spokeshave”: The stout, miudle-aged
man in the first-class compartment was
stretching his arms out and telling his
friend of the 15-pounder he had landed
that morning. “Nice thing it is,” said an
old lady to her companion, “that people
find time to go fishing at a time like this
when the Japs are still at our backdoor!”
But the middle-aged man wasn’t talking
about fish —he was describing the giant
cauliflower his wife had lifted from their
suburban garden.
* * * *
From London: The oddest thing in
print lately is a column article in
the fashionable woman’s paper the
“Queen” by Tom Playford, Premier of
S.A., giving the lie direct to a titled lady,
wife of a former A.D.C. in Adelaide.
She had written “When we arrived in
Adelaide I found there was, alas, no
organisation for the training of women
to help in the war effort, excepting the
Red Cross. It is strange, don’t you think,
that there was natural aversion there to
women doing anything on those lines. But
so it was.” Playford in reply names half
a column of such bodies, all active, from
the Defence Society (1933) to the unique
Cheerup Hut of Adelaide.
* * * *
“Jobber”: Mention of the bird who
ran a school to teach slackers how to
dodge the army (B. 11/8/’43) reminds me
of the daddy of all M.Os., “Plevna”
Ryan. He had before him a chap who
was swinging it on deafness. After one
or two futile efforts to speak to him in
normal tones, Ryan shouted “Wait out-
side in the passage.” The Digger appeared
to compree that, and slid out to the
passage, which was poorly lighted and
crowded with men. After an interval of
waiting the “deaf ’un” heard a voice
whisper “How didja get on with Ryan,
Dig.?” “Think I tricked the old blankard
this time,” was the whispered reply. Later
on the bloke was again ushered into the
presence; quoth Ryan: “No, lad, you
haven’t tricked the old blankard this time.
You will return to your unit.” Ryan
kept an old Digger’s tunic in his room
for just such operations of medical juris-
prudence.
* * * *
“Driver”; The brigadier was putting
us through battle exercises for the bene-
fit of a visiting general. On the second
day of the circus, the brig, was with us
at battalion H.Q. while the general
roamed about, turning up where he was
least expected. When a Bren carrier
came screaming down the track, we all
took cover, except the brig., who was one
of the umpires. A spare driver in the
carrier, his cap adorned with the
red band that identified “enemy” troops,
was impudently standing up, and we
waited to hear some notable invective
from the brig. But, with a general about,
the brig.’s mind was on higher things than
spare drivers. He caught one glimpse of
the red band around the cap and auto-
matically sprang a dinkum Duntroon
salute. The spare waved his hand in a
vague and lordly manner and the gunner
bawled “You beaut.!” Our C.O. had a
violent fit of coughing and the brig,
roared for his driver to take him home.
The practice of “enemy” troops wearing
red hat bands for purposes of identifica-
tion has now ceased in these parts.
* 4= * =l=
“C.Q.”: The shock treatment of
schizophrenia and other mental disorders
so popular in medical circles at the
moment may be an application of a
phenomenon long familiar to the healing
profession. The modern method is con-
cerned with the chemistry of the body,
but a psychological shock can have a
chemical effect. A Collins-street surgeon
tells with chuckles of joy how he was
consulted by a young woman whose
hands were literally covered with warts.
“Come back tomorrow,” said the saw-
bones, “and I’ll cauterise them.” She
turned up next day, but there was no
necessity for the operation. The warts
had vanished.


ABORIGINALITIES
“Bo”; Hennessey, proprietor of the
shanty pub at Flystrike, was breathing
fury from the best side of the bar. “It’s
a insult, that’s what it is,” he declaimed
as he mopped up the dregs. “I been
sellin’ likker here fer 18 years, and
youse blokes know the stuff I sell is
jonick. Y’ll get shot on it, o’ course —
that’s what it’s made fer —but has ever
anyone o’ you coves wriggled out
through drinkin’ it? After a bender, have
y’ had to be dosed with sawlt or swung
round be the tail like a mong that’s
copped a dose o’ strychnine? No! Yet
this blanky flatfoot thinks to rooin me
bizness just becorse I won’t pass him a
pint on the nod whenever he shoves his
mug in the side door. As if he couldn’t
have put his blasted notice somewhere
else.” “What’s bitin’ y’, Joe?” asked
Harry the trapper. Joe Hennessey led the
way to the door and pointed silently to
the big bloodwood growing on the edge
of the roadway about 20ft. along from
the pub. Just above the faded notifica-
tion of a police reward for the apprehen-
sion of a murderer was a big new notice.
The heading was “WARNING. Regula-
tion for Sale of Poisons.”
* * * *
“Betcha”: I’ve owned many mongs in
my time, but never before have I struck
one that was color-conscious. This
Border collie cross is worth a lot as a
sheep-dog, but he finds an absorbing in-
terest in anything colored black. The
shed cats don’t mean a thing to him until
a black one appears ; then he stalks it as
though fascinated; while a black rabbit
we encountered one day nearly sent the
fool into a trance. His peculiarity didn’t
concern me much until a few weeks ago
when the lambing ewes produced a dozen
or more black offspring. Good, sturdy
youngsters they are, and it seems rather
a waste to knock each one on the head,
but until I do something with them it is
quite useless bellowing orders at this
idiot of a dog.
“S.T.S.”: Why this talk of the Jews
having “possibilities” as pastoralists? A
nation whose principal poet named, as
one of the chief bits of luck enjoyed by
the Wicked Man, that “his bull faileth
not” certainly appreciated farm life.
Banjo Paterson even went so far as to
place their operations in that line a bit
above our own. His Saltbush Bill, “On
the Patriarchs,” wishes he had “done a
week or two in Old Man Jacob’s
camp”:
A lot of roving, droving men who drifted to
and fro,
The same we did out Queensland way a score
of years ago
When Jacob was made overseer in Laban’s
camp he shortly owned all the best of
the stock.
He didn’t ask a pound a week, but bargained
for his pay
To take the roan and strawberry calves—the
same we’d take today.
And if I keep the narrer path, some day per-
haps I’ll know
How Jacob bred them strawberry calves three
thousand years ago.
* * * *
“Taniwha”: Brown trout were first
imported to Maoriland from Tasmania 76
years ago, and rainbow trout, from Cali-
fornia, were introduced 60 years ago.
Both have done fairly well, but it has
only in recent years been discovered that
their worst natural foe is the indigenous
eel, two varieties of which, Anguilla
australis and Anguilla aucklandi, both
known to the Maoris as tuna, flourish.
D. Cairns, who has examined the gut
content of thousands of eels, has found
that their staple diet is trout. So now
there is printed on the fishing licenses
issued by the Acclimatisation Societies a
message urging fishermen to make war on
eels. Recommended method of dispatch
is to jag them out with a shark hook
on the end of a stick.
* * * *
“Mat’s Mate”: The big* fellow had
started work for the cocky and was pulled
out at daybreak. This happened three
mornings running. On the third night,
with tea barely over, Mat glanced at the
clock and hurriedly got up, “Gripes,”
he burst out. “Half-past eight. Nearly
time to get up an’ me not in bed yet!”
It must have worked, for the cocky let
him be until nearly sun-up next morning.
* * * *
“Pat Ater”: A Sydney flapper daily
calls A.W.A.S. lorry-drivers “pioneers
in ‘manly’ transport.” Strike me
pink, I’ll take him back nearly 40
years into the coastal scrub country
between Glastonbury Crossing and
Gympie (Q.) and introduce him to
two “fine gals” who were real bullock-
No matches, mister, but help yourself."
drivers in their own right. There were a
small pub of the old low-slung bush
type and a couple of slab houses at the
Crossing—and much big timber. The
girls drove their teams in true bul-
locky fashion, hauling logs from there
to Gympie sawmills along a densely-
skirted rain-forest road. They were with-
out male escort, but their brawny bare
forearms, which could wield a double-
handed whip to pick out a leader with
supple ease, were enough to deter any
knights of the road. To other bullockies
and bush-workers they were just cobbers
—who kept their distance. Both girls
could sw —er —persuade their bullocks to
pull in language they understood. Driv-
ing motor-lorries is a drawing-room job
compared with that work.
* * * *
“Old-timer”; All sorts of ideas pre-
vail on means of keeping snakes out of
house or camp. Some put their faith in
a ring of ashes round the place ; others
depend on a circle of twine, a cat or a
tame kookaburra. A mate of mine
wouldn’t camp anywhere until he’d
scored two deep lines, about a foot apart,
in the earth round the camp. His theory
was that the approaching snake, having
crossed the first line, came to the second
and at once assumed that it was crossing
the first line again and must therefore
have got slewed, a tribute to serpentine
reasoning power if ever there was one.
My mother was Irish. She believed
in banshees, leprechauns and other
Celtic fauna, as firmly as that snakes were
agents of the devil and could not only
overhear human conversation but instil
evil thoughts into humans and could fas-
cinate and charm children. Poor mother.
she spent a fear-ridden existence in Vic-
toria, completely baffled by her Aus-
tralian offspring, who persisted in hunt-
ing and killing snakes and regarding them
as subjects for humor, practical jokes and
tall stories.
* * * *
“Nor’-west”; I hate to criticise a good
yarn, but why did “Vicar” (B. 25 /8 / ’43)
refer to those turtles of Bill Benstead’s as
“hawksbills.” They were greenbacks. The
North Westralian coast sports three
species. No. 1 is hawksbill, a small rep-
tile, seldom attaining 501 b. in weight, and
valuable for its shell, from which the
genuine “tortoiseshell” of commerce is
obtained. The abos. eat this species, but
whites, unless doing a perish, give it a
pass. Next comes the loggerhead, running
up to 3cwt. or so: shell of no value except
as a beachcomber’s washbowl; meat
passable ; jaws so strong that it is a com-
mon show trick to let one bite on to a
green stick and then drag it around the
sands, the turtle refusing to let go. When
fighting, the males bite big pieces out of
one another. The final species is the
greenback, the edible turtle, highly suit-
able for canning. Well-developed adults
may tip the scale at Bcwt., but the size
most sought after runs to about 4cwt.
These were the kind Bill Benstead had in
his palisade, and if after escape they re-
turned to the north-west they certainly
showed remarkable homing instinct, for
they are not wholly confined to north of
Capricorn. Years ago big greenbacks
could be caught off Rottnest.
* * * *
“No. 1 Bench”: Wandering through
the forests of Victoria I came across
countless old trees, messmate and such-
like, hollow as a drum ; so much so that
water- and feed-troughs could be made
by cutting some ancient into handy
lengths, splitting in halves longways and
closing the ends. I have never seen
such a trough in s.-w. W.A. Jarrah,
karri and their kin rarely go hollow.
Rotten the centre may be in very ancient
specimens, but they won’t be hollow in
the drummy sense. No man or dog
could crawl into one for a doss. But in
the jarrah forest one finds hundreds of
trees that would provide a fair shelter.
These are trees burnt out on one side
by recurring bush fires-; at times the
arched wooden cave will be large enough
to give shelter to three or four people.
* * * *
“D.R.H.”: Knocking about, a man gets
pretty certain of his ability to go out
alone after dark. But get him away
from the dry country he knows, where he
has learned to grin at the feeling of little-
ness that a hundred miles of vast, empty
and open tableland can breed, and set him
down in wet country, in the middle of a
pine forest, just, about sunset. Let him
have to push his blind way through a
suffocating mass of foliage, now waist-
deep in bracken, now listening in vain for
his own footsteps on the thick moss, now
slipping on the green, slimy trunks of the
rotting gums that made way for the
pines. Let him feel the silence and the
gloom and the atmosphere of savagely-
competitive vegetable life rooted in de-
cay. Let him trip now and then over
creepers and hidden stumps, groping
blindly for a path out of the old mazes
of fallen timber and the new thickets of
banksia, and see how long before he be-
gins to look over his shoulder. After
all, a man can travel a long way without
getting rid of his ancestors.
•** k *
“T.V.”; Whether or not the cocka-
toos stay upright on the line (B. 1/9/’43)
is quite immaterial. In the best galah
circles what happens is this: the boys
land on the wire side by side for per-
haps 150 yards. Then with a joyous
screech they swing—round and round and
round again, sometimes having a com-
fortable spell upside down. Suddenly the
leader sings out “Let ’er go I” And they
do —all together. If the lazy cow of a
boundary-rider doesn’t then get out of
bed and put the line up for them they
fly to his hut, land on the ridge and,
sitting on their claws, slide down. This
is the most effective method of waking
boundary-riders known to science.
* * * *
“Walkabout”: The eradication of
prickly pear in south-west Queensland
had a lot to do with the easy mustering
of scrubber cattle that had made the
pear scrubs their domain. There were
plenty of good scrub riders who would
gallop after cattle through the densest of
scrubs, but where prickly pear prevailed
amongst the timber they could do no-
thing ; no horse could be forced to enter
the pear even at a walk. But no matter
how dense the pear grew it made no
difference to the cattle that were pear
addicts ; their hides seemed thornproof.
The best mob of bullocks sent from the
south-west to Brisbane during one
drought came from a big prickly-pear
paddock in which there hadn’t been
water for over twelve months. The bul-
locks had been pear-chewers from the
time they’d gone bush as weaners, and
the only way they could be secured for
beef was by “moonlighting” when they
ventured out at nights into the open coun-
try. The bullocks were prime fat and
topped the market by pounds per head,
but how they fattened as they did was a
mystery ; their tongues resembled over-
stocked pincushions.
$ $ * *
“D.A.”: Old-timers still are prepared
to swear that no oil ever* distilled from
leaves could hold a candle to whale oil as
a cure for rheumatism. In the George
Davidson whaling days at Twofold Bay
(N.S.W.), it was a common sight to see
a man, stripped to the buff, walking down
the steps that had been cut into the car-
cass of a whale. Down in the innards he
would literally stew for hours while the
heat drove the whale oil into his pores
and joints. The patient accounted it
worth being a social pariah for weeks
afterward. The cure, though, was never
attempted by anyone suffering from heart
trouble.
* * * *
“Jackand”: When the war was still in
its infancy a Perth-Adelaide motorist
made an enforced halt near Madura
station, on the Trans, line. His back axle
had snapped. With chisel and hammer
he gouged out a cut in the axle, snapped
off a small bit of file and, fitting this in,
succeeded in getting as far as the home-
stead. There he besought Mackie, the
manager, to provide a forge that the
piece of file might be brazed into the
axle, thus providing a reliable key. Un-
fortunately, Mackie’s forge was 30 miles
out on the Nullarbor and out of order.
“But,” he suggested, “we have several
blowholes.” The motorist was taken to
one some four inches in diameter, whence
the air was issuing in strength. Then he
made up his mind. Taking a kerosene-tin
he soldered a length of iin. piping to the
bottom, upended it on the blowhole,
rammed 3ft. of clay over it and flattened
off the top. Next he cut timber and
burned charcoal. Within two days he
had completed a forge provided with a
fine furnace blast. The piece of file was
brazed in and the man sped on his way.
Two months later Mackie had a letter
from him saying that the same axle and
the same key still served to get him round
Adelaide. What about that as a sample
of Australian ingenuity at improvisation?
* * * *
“Narrin”: I’d advise “Ek D.” to have
a bullet-proof vest behind his shanghai
before he fights that duel (B. 1/9/’43). A
.22 automatic pistol at 100 yards doesn’t
sound so terrifying, but if it happened to
be the long-barrelled German weapon
mentioned in my par. about the fox (B.
25/8/’45) it could do the trick. When
W. E. Ekins, the Adelaide gunsmith, im-
ported those Deutsch pea-shooters they
were tried out pretty thoroughly. I
remember seeing target cards that had
been peppered at 50 and 70 yards on the
Magill range, arid, on the strength of
these, I’d be well behind a tree if any-
one started on me from 100 yards.
“RETREAT.”
Retreat ... a muted bugle call sounds on the
closing day;
The clamor of the world outside, now silent,
fades away;
A voiceless calm descends upon the round
earth’s turning wheels —
And on the cooling evening air a bugle softly
peals.
Then through the hush old memories and ghosts
of other days
Crowd rank oft rank around me, drifting in a
misty haze.
And voices of those gallant ones call gently
to the strings
That throb and vibrate through the dusk as
now the bugle sings.
Of those who died in foreign lands and find a
shallow grave
On snow-capped peaks, in desert sands, beneath
the restless wave.
Their sacrifice must not be vain—for our own
cause they shed
Unstintingly the blood that stains our easy
freedom red.
Retreat ... a muted bugle call, poignant with
memories,
Lingers on in reverie while fading on the breeze.
Moments of pride and quietness filched from
the day’s long stress —
They ask so little, only this, and we can give
no less. '
A.I.F.
R. W. SCOTT.


“Hg.S”: In his spare time Billy Tan-
gawa used to go out with his tin dish
and work the alluvial gullies, doing
fairly well. Then we moved from
Cloncurry to Ravenswood (Q.), and Billy
came with us. But the gullies in the new
domain yielded only microscopic quanti-
ties of gold. He now looked askance at
his old tin dish and got the carpenter
to make him an equipment. I asked him
how he was doing. “No good, boss,” he
said; then grinned and pointed to his
plant. “All same company —too much
bloody machinery longa top!”
* * * *
“Snowy”: Salt or bluestone might do
the trick in saving a dog poisoned with
strychnine (B. 8/9/’43), but the cure
that never fails is charcoal and fat. I’ve
used it on cats and dogs for the past 40
years, and have saved every one I’ve
dosed. A lump of charcoal the size of a
walnut, crushed and mixed with the same
quantity of fat and poked down the dog’s
throat if he is beyond swallowing, will do
the trick. Carry a bit mixed in a tin
when travelling through poisoned
country, and keep your eye on your dog,
and you needn’t worry about strychnine
baits. I’ve found it impossible to poison
wild pigs with strychnine, because pigs
have a fancy for eating charcoal when-
ever they find a burnt log.
* * sH *
“Moyhu”:, In the cultivated hill coun-
try above Drouin (Vic.) the common
brown quail occasionally mates with the
English skylark. The progeny, slightly
smaller than the quail parent, are excel-
lent eating, but rarely survive beyond the
early flying stage. The spiral habit of
flight inherited from the skylark parent
degenerates into horizontal, circular flight
in which the hybrid is unable to rise
more than a few feet. Once launched
upon, such flights are usually fatal; they
may continue for hours and invariably
end in the young birds falling to the
ground exhausted, an easy prey for
animals and man. Occasional individuals,
however, resist the fatal tendency to cir-
cular flight, their progress on the wing
being characterised by wide, fluttering
arcs which render them a difficult target.
* * * *
“Wester”: But jam and honey have
substitute monikers outback (B.
22/9/’43). Have heard jam called “fly-
bog” as often as treacle, and also “sap”
(got from a rabbit poison), “pumpkin
stew,” “flash,” “smear,” One picturesque
youth invited his mother to “hack orf a
hunk of that bread, plaster [butter] it
an’ slap on a coat o’ paint.” Honey is
frequently “bee juice,” “hummer milk,”
“half-Canaan,” “yellergob” or “gum
juice.” And in the parts of Victoria
which I disgraced as a youth there was
a delicate differentiation between “bul-
locky’s joy” (treacle) and “cocky’s joy”
(golden syrup), it being assumed that the
cocky was slightly above the bullocky in
epicurean tastes
* * * *
“Oxmead”: I find something a bit
staggering in the cheerful assumption of
“Anthropo” (B. 8/9/’43) that the abo.
in his heart regards the white as a good
deal of a child and himself quite as high
in the scale of human beings, if not a bit
higher. Certainly it is a view I have never
seen in print before. If it were well-
founded, wouldn’t it knock the stuffing
out of Tennyson’s line
Even the black Australian dying hopes
he shall return a white.
Not that Tennyson had any first-hand
knowledge of this country’s original in-
habitants, but I have heard his statement
O.K.’d by many an old-timer, squatters
of the last century who had much better
opportunities of studying abo. psychology
than anybody has today. If “Anthropo’s”
version were correct not only would the
black Australian flatly refuse to entertain
the idea of “jumping up white man,” but
he would be apt, for the white man’s
sake, to hope that the latter would enter
on the next life as a black. I am not
aware that anyone has ever advanced
such a proposition.
* * * *
“Nipper”: Australian horses have no
particular claims to longevity records;
perhaps it’s the climate. Have heard of
plenty up to ( 40, and one, a cream, that
I saw on a Muswellbrook (N.S.W.)
property had, according to its owner’s
claims, been ridden by three generations
over >46 years. But the world’s record
easily goes to England. The skeleton of
a horse that lived to 76 is, according to
Brown’s Modern Farriery, in the
Birmingham Museum.
. * * * *
“Horseless Horseman”: We fellows at
the homestead were sick of hearing Paddy
the Rabbiter extol the attributes of his
new kangaroo-dog every time he came in
for stores. Unless you saw him first you
had to listen to how this “aristo-
crat among dawgs” was bred from “them
there Irish wolfhounds” ; how he was
the finest thing on four legs that ever set
after a ’roo ; and how he could do any-
thing and everything, even down to
“working a blowfly into the n ££ k of a
bottle, if he was asked.” The boss rode out
to Paddy’s open-air home strewn around
the mulga to investigate. He was met by
Paddy, who asked excitedly: “Did you
see my dawg? He left here a minute ago
chasing a big dingo.” “Yes,” replied the
boss laconically. “Just passed him back
there. Your dog’s going flat out. He’s
still about twenty yards in front! ”
* * * *
“Eureka”: Drovers these days are
sober dressers. It wasn’t always so.
Struck one in Moree (N.S.W.) once who
wore a red-and-white calfskin waistcoat
with half-sovereigns for buttons. The
ends of the large red handkerchief round
his neck were held together with a ring
carved out of a quandong seed. His
cabbage-tree hat had a band of plaited
kangaroo-skin, and he wore a plaited
leather belt to match. In the toe of one
boot was a small mirror and in the toe
of the other a barmaid’s photo. Instead
of the usual rollers in his spurs he had
real sovereigns, and on one finger was a
massive opal ring. He carried his wax
“ Psst! What's ’e starin' for?"
matches in a gold-mounted matchbox
made oubof a matchbox bean, one of the
prettiest seeds I have seen. His progress
through the town was quite peaceful until
one of the locals solemnly raised his hat.
The stoush that followed is still spoken
of in those parts.
* * * *
“Pat Ater”: There’s a war going on in
the bush bordering our homestead be-
tween scoundrelly currawongs and a
family of kookaburras who come to the
back verandah for a handout. I’ve been
pelting the currawongs—they pull up the
just-emerging peas and broad beans —
with stones, but their sagacity is amaz-
ine When the jackasses respond to a
loud “Hello’” call for meat scraps, along
come the black scavengers too, and they
cheekily disport "themselves in full view
alon® Y near-by branches. They’ve
reckoned it out that I wouldn't throw
stones then, with so many jackass cobbers
around so thev’d be free to swoop on to
any titbits. But, eventually goaded, I
“Cad, Prendergast, what an ordeal! She's their Land Army's
champion horsebreaker!"
let them have a salvo, much to their sur-
nri<=e and the larrikin retreat was as
hurried as it was comical. Now swarms
of cGrrawongs like Messerschmitts in
close formation, tackle the jackos,
snlittine them into odd groups. One
£ Toting B morale. He
sits on a forked branch, growling
thmatilv and dodeine his tormentors,
but his sturcfa
relatives just barge in and bust up the
black swastika squadrons. I’m wonder-
ing whether the segregated jacky will
succumb to the war of nerves.
* * * *
“Nor’-west”: Word that oki Lumbar
was running a “beauty parlor” a bit back
in the woods made us inquisitive. We
were not exactly welcome, but being
males were tolerated The aspirant for
adornment lay face downwards on the
earth. Lumbar had his bag of tricks
spread out, sacred medicine stones, roots,
bones, etc. The stones, splinters of quartz,
were of venerable age, inherited from a.
series of departed medicine men; they
had scored the flesh of hundreds of
blacks. Lumbar paid them due rever-
ence, but, being modern, his implements
were more up to date—for keen cutting
there are few blades sharper than a slice
of expertly broken bottle. With the cold-
ness of experience and the dexterity of
long practice he drew the glass blade from
the lower edge of the collarbone well
down among the ribs, cutting just so deep
and no more. Although there was no
ansesthetic the patient remained as un-
moved as the surgeon. The flowing blood
was soon checked by a special clotting
mixture, clay and mud rolled to a plastic
consistency. This was pressed in tight
and the sides of the wound drawn close.
A similar incision and treatment followed
on the opposite side. Then the specialist
signified “That will do for today,” and
another aspirant slipped into the vacancy
on the table. Cicatrices, anthropologists
call them, for the clay is held in the
wound, the skin gradually growing over,
producing horrible-looking ridges that
may stand up half an inch or more. Back
and chest often are covered, though the
beauty-lover, having no mirrors, can
never see the rear adornment for which
he paid so high a price in pain.
“Aneb”: In time practically any in-
telligent moke will learn to stand when
the reins are dropped on the ground (B.
8/9/’43). I doubt if any fancy stunts
will hasten,the teaching, the reason being
that any animal can draw the tongue of
any buckle it he really I* Teach he
horse thoroughly by tying him up m the
usual way, and then by not leaving hm.
out of reach for some time. Use of a
halter with a long shank and letting it trail
on the ground is a useful second-stage
precaution. The peg-and-wire contraption
I never saw, and doubt its efficiency, ex-
cept on an almost trained animal. The
Boer method, as I understood it, was to
knee-halter the pony; the reins were tied
around the near foreleg above the knee
at the right length. No animal can go
fast thus tethered.
* * * *
“Colonial Cove”: Westralia, instead of
calling its native timbers totally exotic
names such as stringybark, messmate,
mountain ash, etc., preserves the abo-
riginal nomenclature in jarrah, karn,
tuart, wandoo, marree and a dozen
others. It didn’t once. Till 1840 jarrah
was called mahogany. But the Swan
Riverites found that the Home folk
were accepting the name all too
literally. England then was highly pro-
tectionist, with heavy duties levied on
Spanish mahogany from America, and
stiff enough rates on any mahogany. So
instead of receiving the benefit of
preferential rates levied on timbers from
N.S.W. and Van Diemen’s Land the
Swan River timbermen found their pro-
duct called on to pay mahogany rates.
To .remedy this, haste was made in find-
ing another name. The official inter-
preter for the aboriginals, T. Armstrong,
had long made known the abo. name of
jarrah, so that was adopted. Karri, pre-
viously called white gunt, also became
known by its abo. name.
* * * *
“Wang”: “A man gets some queer re-
quests durin’ a lifetime in the bush,” said
Dan. “I’m driving into the township one
afternoon when I catch up to a stranger
stridin’ briskly along on foot. I pulled
up an’ offered him a lift. ‘No thanks,’
he ses, T prefer t’ walk.’ He puts a foot
on the hub of the wheel, an’ goes on as
though it’s somethin’ he must tell me.
Tm very fond of walkin’; it’s me one
hobby, an’ as this is me last chance
of a decent tramp I’m makin’ the most of
it. I could have sent somebody else in
with word of things, but that would
have meant me waitin’ about. Y’ see,
he went on, notin’ the puzzled look I
give him, ‘it’s this way. I’m on me way
t’ the p’lice station t’ give meself up.
1 done-in me mate back in the bush last
night after we had a bit of an argument.’
Then, as I hurriedly grabbed up the reins,
he added appealingly: ‘Y’ won’t be a
nark, will y’, ole chap, an’ tell the
John as soon as y’ reach the township,
an’ have him cornin’ out t’ meet me?
Let me enjoy me last long walk to its
finish.’ ”
* * * *
“Edjudina”: The merino is tough ; so
is the horse *, but the goat has them both
beaten to a frazzle. That’s why the goat
is Kimberley mutton; and the Kim-
berleys are quite a holiday resort com-
pared with some spots where the goat
makes its home. Blistering heat, mirages
in the summer air, burnt grass, spinifex, a
few mulga leaves —the goat thrives on
such conditions and diet as obtain, for in-
stance, at The Granites. And you 11 find
Nanny and Billy all over the Centre pro-
viding milk, butter and mutton where the
sheep and the cow would perish. Of
course the horse is there too, but it has
to be practically spoon-fed compared with
the foraging, live-on-the-country goat.
THE FROGS OF TOMANBIL.
Listen to Jthe chorus of the frogs
The fifty million frogs of I ornanbil
Lifting up their voices from the bogs
Now the evening star is over Eurow Hill •
The tenors and the baritones, the bassos strong
and deep,
The little, pale soprano frogs whose voices seem
to weep, , , . ,
The .tree frogs in staccato and the skirlers on
the reeds
And the old-man bullies ’way down in the
weeds.
It rings across the fallows white with frost,
A never-ending chorus of the night.
The curlews cry their sorrow for the lost.
But all the swamp is strident with delight.
The pompous and the humble frogs, the kids,
their mas and pas, .
The hungry and the bloated frogs, with eeks
and awks and ahs,
The tremolos and boomers that the new spring
water breeds
And the old-man bullies ’way down in the
weeds.
They gather at the coming of the moon,
The queen, austere, of furtive, frightened
things,
The patron of the shadowed, still lagoon,
And every blessed froggie ups and sings.
The wee ones and the lumpy ones, the short
ones and the long,
The golden, green and creamy ones, and every
one a song, .
Waking up the sleepers, boasting of their deeds,
And the old-man bullies ’way down in the
weeds.
For there’s been an inch of rain upon the hills
And the little creeks again are running free.
There :s water where the moonlight magic spills
And fifty million frogs are mad with glee.
With a croaking and a carking and a chirrup
and a shout,
The old ones and the young ones hail the pass-
ing of the drought.
Green and brown and stripy frogs, and spotted
frogs in tweeds,
And the old-man bullies ’way down in the
weeds.
N.S.W.
OLD-TIMER.


Australian, Mercantile, Land & Finance
Company, Limited
(INCORPORATED IN ENGLAND IN 1863)
WOOL, FAT STOCK, STORE AND STUD STOCK,
PRODUCE AND PROPERTY SALESMEN
General Manager for Australia: R. SINCLAIR SMITH.
ADVANCES MADE ON GRAZING PROPERTIES, ON STOCK, AND ON
CONSIGNMENTS OF WOOL, SKINS, HIDES, TALLOW, ETC.
LICENSED AUCTIONEERS. STOCK AND STATION AGENTS.
SYDNEY OFFICE: A. M. MURDOCH, Manager.
ALSO AT MELBOURNE, BRISBANE, NEWCASTLE, WAGGA, HENTY, HAY, MOREE,
TOWNSVILLE, CHARLEVILLE, BUENOS AIRES, LONDON.
GENERAL AGENTS IN NEW SOUTH WALES FOR NORTHERN ASSURANCE CO.. LTD.
BUY
WAR SAVINGS CERTIFICATES
and
NATIONAL SAVINGS BONDS
Space by
MAKERS OF THE ECONOMY SAUCE
g
but civilian requirements of Aus-
tralian-made Radiotrons have not been
neglected. Most widely used types are
available, but if the particular valve you
want is not obtainable, consult your Radio-
tron dealer regarding an alternative type.
IADIOT39N
THE WORLD'S STANDARD RADIO VALVE
AMALGAMATED WIRELESS VALVE CO. PIT- HD.
THE MAN ON
THE LAND
"DON'T WORRY. I'M SENDING IT TO
GRAZCOS."
Sheep Feeding.
“Bungaree”: If next autumn and
winter are dry, difficulties of hand-feeding
sheep will be enormous. Even in normal
times labor and transport are usually
strained to keep a steady supply of feed
up to stock in a drought. Today the
position as regards (a) meat and blood
meals and other manufactured sheep
feeds, ( b ) railway trucks, (c) petrol and
tyres, {d) station labor, is enough to stop
hand-feeding on any but a reduced scale.
It is doubtful whether, in drought during
war-time, any sheep would be fed except
studs.
In view of this, C.S.I.R. experiments
are interesting. At the McMaster Labora-
tory (N.S.W.) two lots of sheep in pens
were fed a small ration, one -lot daily and
the other twice a week. The bi-weekly
ration was not large, being little more
than a maintertance ration for dry sheep,
but there was practically no difference at
the end of five months between the two
lots of sheep.
At Werribee (Vic.) two groups of 25
adult wethers were used and their average
was reduced from 961 b. to 77.41 b. before
the experiment. They were fed on equal
parts of lucerne chaff and wheat, one lot
getting .851 b. per head per day, the other
lot t seven times that—5.951 b a
week. The sheep had no other grazing,
and could not be expected to do more
than maintain body weight on what they
got. During the winter months the ration
had to be increased to achieve this. The
experiment has been in progress for the
past nine months, and so far there is prac-
tically no difference between the two lots
of sheep.
This is going to make a tremendous
difference in sheep feeding, even in nor-
mal times, since troughs filled only once
a week mean a considerable saving in
every direction, and paddock sheep will
have- the further advantage of being able
to forage for themselves in the interven-
ing period. In these experiments small
mobs of sheep of approximately the same
weight and condition were used ; under
drought conditions much more variation
would occur in large mobs in big pad-
docks. It would be essential to draft
sheep into mobs of approximately similar
size and strength, so as to prevent the
stronger sheep getting the bulk of the
feed while weaker got little or none.
Does It Pay to Scour?
“Jumbuck”: Proximity to plants and
results from scoured wool have been and
always will be factors (B.
15/9/’43), independent of the fact that
in normal times competition for scoured
wool is often patchy, and on a tops basis
scoured wool does not realise as much
as it should in comparison with greasy.
Growers who have had parts of their
clips scoured year in, year out have
proved that scouring paid. If it didn’t
they’d stop sending wool to the scour.
My own experience proved that it
doesn’t pay to send certain heavy-condi-
tioned and sandy wools long distances
to market in grease if scouring is avail-
able. In 1932, when competition for
scoured wool could hardly have been
more restricted, I refused a local dealer’s
offer of 3d. per pound for about 35 bales
of mixed pieces, bellies and dead. Pick-
ing the wool carefully, I forwarded 12
bales to Brisbane and scoured the
balance. After allowing for labor, costs,
etc., the greasy averaged 6}d. per pound
and the scoured (which sold up to 24Jd.
per pound) averaged 9*d. I know of
other instances where returns per head —
the real factor —were greater from
scoured than from greasy.
In normal times any grower with
reasonable access to a scour can prove
for himself whether it pays to have cer-
tain types of his clip scoured. Let him
make an even distribution of any line
of heavy-conditioned fleece or of skirt-
ings, sending half away in the grease and
having the other half scoured. Subse-
quent net returns on a greasy basis per
pound will reveal the truth.
I agree with “Outback” on Queens-
land rail freights. Why charges for
scoured should be 25 p.c. higher than for
greasy doesn’t make sense.
Treannent of Seed.
“P. Ater”: Biologists now claim that
fully two-thirds of diseases of field crops
and vegetables can be controlled by treat-
ment of seed, provided clean ground is
used. Wheatgrowers know how effective
is bluestone treatment against smut. -
Certified or treated seed, clean culti-
vation methods (burning of diseased
stubble and plants) and crop rotation are
main anti-disease measures. Spraying is
essential, but don’t regard it as the
“one and only” way. Lush breeding
grounds for many fungoids and bacteria
(also virus) are the soil, the seed and in-
fested trash and refuse. These carry and
perpetuate. Seasonal conditions assist.
Some of the more commonly-known
diseases, seed-borne, are: Pre-emergence
“damping-off” of green peas (very bad
in recent seasons), to which Greenfeast
is very subject; “halo” or bacterial blight
of French beans ; canker, as well as some
fungus and bacterial diseases of tomatoes
{not spotted wilt); anthracnose or pod
spot of beans, also of melons and cucum-
bers, where it sets up rot areas on fruit,
leaves and stems ; rhizoctonia (or root
rot) and “scab” of potatoes.
Make sure that bought seed is disease-
free. Local Departments of Agriculture
will recommend sources of approved
supply. Otherwise treat seed before sow-
ing. If you gather your own seed take
it only from clean and uninfected plants.
Dust pea seed with copper carbonate or
copper oxychloride at 2oz. per bushel
(Argrosan or Ceresan, loz.). Tomato
seed should always be disinfected before
planting. Use the copper oxychloride or
the mercury dusts by shaking the seed
and dust together in a closed container.
A level teaspoonful of copper dust or
half that quantity of other mercury dusts
to each pound of seed is a good measure.
Another thing, if tomato seed comes from,
doubtful sources soak it in acetic acid
solution (1 fl. oz. in a gallon of water)
for 24 hours against canker.
Treat melon, cucumber and bean seeds
with fungicidal dusts against anthracnose.
Use an acidulated corrosive sublimate
(mercuric chloride) dip for potatoes. Soak
for 10 minutes and plant immediately or
dry and store in a dry place. These
treatments do not absolve from preven-
tive Bordeaux spraying against Irish
blight and other fungoids in adverse
weather conditions.
Trace Elements.
“J.A.S.”: The so-called trace elements
occur widely in feeds, though in very
small amounts. Best-known is iodine,
without which mental development in
humans is retarded, whilst in animals its
lack causes goitre, hairlessness, sterility
and other troubles. In recent years
cobalt, another trace element, has been
the subject of research, and Australian
and M.L. scientists show that addition of
tiny amounts of cobalt to feed can cor-
rect and prevent wasting and other
diseases of sheep and cattle. In some
cases two or more trace elements may be
necessary to get results — e.g., cobalt and
copper to combat “coast disease” in S.A.
Some trace elements applied to certain
soils have given interesting results. Dr.
Hirschfeld, in s.-w. Queensland, found
that minute quantities of copper promote
growth of cereals; boron causes earlier
seeding of cereals and zinc does the same
for grasses; zinc makes Prairie grass
more drought-resistant. Much more work
has to be done before the results are
fully interpreted and put to general use.
There are perhaps 25 other trace ele-
ments in the common feeding stuffs of
man and his domestic animals. Most of
them are poisons which do no great harm
in minute concentrations ; others are non-
poisonous and, as far as is known, play
no part in nutrition. The class which
includes copper, cobalt, iron, iodine,
manganese, magnesium and zinc plays a
part in nutrition and vital body processes,
and again research isn’t final. Farmers
reading of spectacular results obtained
should remember that such results occm
only where a deficiency has been cor-
rected. There is much room for experi-
ment, but don’t try it unless you know
exactly what you are about. Above all,
don’t pay fancy prices for cure-all mixtures
designed to correct deficiencies which
may not exist in your locality.
Rubberware.
“B.”: Cleaning doubles the service of
milking machinery.
Use caustic in preference to washing
soda. One heaped teaspoon of it to
four gallons of boiling water does a
better job than a large handful of wash-
ing soda. The latter may soften water
better than caustic, but it won’t remove
grease as easily. If you don’t like caustic,
use one teaspoon soda ash to each gallon
of boiling water and stir well to dissolve.
Don’t add water to the ash. One or two
teaspoons of soda ash mixture together
with a teaspoon of caustic to every gallon
of, boiling water makes a good germ
killer, rinser and water-softener.
Wash the long milk, vacuum and claw
tubes regularly. Once a fortnight remove
inflators from the teat cups and soak in
a bucket of boiling water with the soda
mixture in it at one heaped teaspoon per
quart. Don’t use untinned copper or
brass vessels ; they ruin rubber. When
inflators have soaked some hours, re-
move, brush in soapy water and rinse in
clean. Treat other parts the same way.
Reversing the inflators relieves strain on
one particular section. Dry rubber
utensils away from the sun.
Hints for the Farm.
“Gip”: I feed my nags on cowpea
and peanut tops. One horse fattened
splendidly on a diet of peanuts (in shell).
Some time ago I bought fowls that were
mostly bones and feathers. I fed ’em
on peanuts and they were fat and laying
in a month.
“Steve”: At present pastures in the
Western District of Victoria are infested
with cockchafer grubs. Many paddocks,
particularly under sub. clover, are being
denuded of growth, and resemble well-
pulverised fallow. Run the topdresser
over these areas and sow Wimmera rye,
followed by a harrowing. That’ll give a
good stand of feed immune to the
ravages of the grub.
“H.C.”: When there’s no disease, nitro-
genous fertiliser will mature fruit high
up on the tomato plant. Apply loz.
nitrate of soda or sulphate of ammonia
to nine feet of each side of the bed and
hoe in lightly. To use in the form of liquid
manure dissolve one tablespoon of nitrate
of soda in a kerosene-tin of water, and
dose the plants after rain or watering.
“B.”: When citrus trees don’t make
growth try a heavy root pruning. If
there’s a taproot cut it back, too. Use
blood and bone or bone dust as a fer-
tiliser. Cut out fowl manure and lime.
“Agro”: Useful sheds can be made
from old, leaking galvanised iron tanks.
Cut the tank in half from top to bottom.
Put several posts in the ground and place
the half tank, opening downwards, over
the posts and fix at the height desired.
The sides can then be covered with tin,
boards, etc. Cost is practically nil.
QUESTIONS ANSWERED.
{Transferred from Service Department .)
How to fatten turkeys? .
Turkeys do not fatten when penned in tne
same way as do fowls. They fret and lose
weight when kept under intensive conditions
after being on range. However, it would be
beneficial to give them each morning a bran-
and-pollard mash,, mixed with skim-mi k tor
about three or four weeks prior to marketing.
If wheatmeal or maizemeal is available,
to 30 p.c. of wheatmeal or 10 to 15 p.c. ot
maizemeal could be incorporated in the mash.


I
l \
II
■
■Hi
I i v
■
W?
m
'.V, -x' 1 '' 53fcw%i« '
H
XT
H
;V,;
.
V
t:*-
■.
li
~ -- ‘-wC-n.^
r*°e.'l,etr t
VACUUM
QUALITY PRODUCT
and Temdous
Mobiloil ensures full engine protec-
tion at all speeds and temperatures
VACUUM OIL COMPANY PTY. LTD.
♦INCORPORATED IN AUSTRALIA)
BUY and HOLD WAR SAVINGS CERTIFICATES
M 37
LYSAGMTS
4 ”JK
PROOF
100% Australian-made
from Australian Material
Wire Netting
Wire Nails
Our Netting and Other Products are
known throughout the Commonwealth
as of the highest standard.
LOOK for Our MARKER in
every Roll of Netting.
LYSAGHT’S
Fencing Wire
•v:*^
mp&WSii** , y STKC-r
' : ' '•' .. , -v-
-# #...
:.^;
ESTABLISHED 1884
Barbed Wire
Zinc Oxide
QUALITY GUARANTEED .
Obtainable from all the Leading
Merchants, Storekeepers and Agents.
Lysaght Bros. & Co. Pty., Ltd.
Head Office: 17-19 Bridge Street Sydney.
SPECIFY "LYSAGHT'S" WIRE, WIRE NETTING, ETC.
UNCABLED ADDITIONS
“Allied Exaggerations."
(Condensed from comment by the Washington
syndicate writer David Lawrence .)
What the military critic of the “Weekly
Tribune,”' London, has said about the
exaggerations of losses inflicted by the
British, American and Russian forces has
attracted much attention here, particularly
his statement that if official communiques
are to be believed Japan has only 35
warships left in her navy.
For some time there has been a feeling
of embarrassment among our officials
concerning losses reported, but this is due
to unavoidable circumstances. Thus when
flyers return from bombing missions and
they are engaged in fights at high alti-
tudes, it is often impossible to be certain
whether an enemy ship has been sunk or
damaged seriously or damaged lightly.
It has been evident for some time that
the Japanese Navy could not have as
much reserve strength as it seems to
muster from time to time if our U.S.
Navy has truly inflicted all the losses
claimed. But U.S. Navy men will be
the first to say that the losses cannot be
absolutely verified and that th£ infor-
mation given out is disseminated in good
faith as the best available at the time.
One important point which the London
military critic raises is that published
losses must be taken with a certain dis-
count owing to unavoidable error. It
would be wrong to assume that the
figures are purposely exaggerated by any
official source.
The American Navy, if it could fol-
low its real desires, probably wouldn’t
give out any information about losses for
some time after each engagement. That
policy was pursued for a long time in
1942, but owing to criticism from some
sections of the American press the policy
was changed. Now no claims of losses
are issued unless U.S. losses are also
published. It is a poor compromise from
the navy standpoint because it gives the
enemy knowledge of what losses were
inflicted. But in war-time the. demands
of public opinion sometimes upset the
best-laid plans for deceiving the enemy.
One thing can be stated rather posi-
tively—the men who run the U.S. Navy
discount the tales of the fliers about the
ships they have sunk. They don’t argue
about it with them for fear the old cry
about disparaging air power may be
raised. But when the war is over the
exact number of ships lost through air
power will be determinable, and the
power of surface ships will compare
favorably in the results.
Britain’s French Problem.
(From an article by N.Y. “World-Telegram”
editor Roy W. Howard.)
What the future holds for France has
not been as much of a subject of specu-
lation in America as in Britain. To most
Americans, France means Paris, a play-
ground, a place to check your inhibitions,
a land of good food, good wine and beau-
tiful women. French politics and foreign
policy have never been a major concern
of Americans. Today American interest
is pretty well limited to getting the Ger-
mans out and the groceries in, to turning
on the lights and chilling the champagne.
For England the problem is not so
simple. For two generations France has
been the keystone in the arch of British
foreign policy. When France fell the
arch collapsed and the keystone was shat-
tered.
In the opinion of journalists close to
the British Foreign Office, the French
military debacle was of secondary im-
portance to the collapse of the French
State. The damage by Hitler’s Stukas
and his panzer divisions can be repaired.
What can be done to reconstruct a poli-
tical structure which collapsed because
it had been riddled internally by political
termites is a more serious problem.
In England it is believed that France
had caved from within before the crack-
ing of the Maginot Line, collapsed be-
cause national unity had been destroyed
by the jealousies of more than a score
of moribund political parties whose
leaders put individual interests above
those of the nation. What has happened
in French North Africa during the last
few months has not encouraged those
who had hoped for a new and inspired
leadership which would revive the spirit
of the France of Verdun.
Plans for Japs and Germans.
(Condensed from an article by N.Y. " Times"
Washington correspondent Harold Callender.)
It has been reiterated that the Axis
nations must surrender unconditionally,
though those terms to some extent were
qualified in the case of Italy by assur-
ances of our friendly attitude toward the
Italian people, as distinct from the Fascist
regime.
It is certain that toward Germany and
Japan the official Allied attitude will be
far more severe than toward Italy, for
two reasons: first, they are more power-
ful and therefore more dangerous to
future peace ; second, we do not feel the
same confidence in the pacific character
of their peoples, as opposed to their
regimes, that we feel toward the
Italians.
The unconditional surrender doctrine
derives from the experience of 1918,
when Germany proposed peace on the
basis of President Wilson’s Fourteen
Points. Though the armistice terms were
strictly military, Germans ever after-
ward contended that the Allies had
agreed to a peace based upon the Four-
teen Points and then had gone back on
their promise.
Mr. Roosevelt and Mr. Churchill de-
cided there should be no such confusion
at the end of Germany’s second world
war, and that the surrender should be
defined well in advance as being without
conditions of any kind.
This means that each Axis Power must
put up the white flag and hand over its
weapons before any decisions are framed
about its frontiers, its penalties or its
future place in the world.
The intention seems clear to disarm the
Axis Powers far more thoroughly than
Germany was disarmed by the so-called
harsh Treaty of Versailles, and to pre-
vent their rearmament by control not
only of their armies, navies and air fleets,
but of their power to produce such


For Australia at War
TO
Sr
■5
o
o
uz
cx
Cc
O
Q
Ote
LATHES . . . CAPSTAN TURRET LATHES
SHAPING, MILLING and PLANING
MACHINES .... BORING MILLS
MACHINE-CUT GEARS for the Trade
MARS MACHINE TOOL Manfg. Go.
Pty. Ltd. Bridge Street, Valley, Brisbane
r'-V
IB
■I
■
Lxwm
V.'
'*W
n’lfl
m
7EL
w
;-.t
J-V
. V
/
/
CfIJV« rTC
MEETS THE NEED
While we are at war, your country calls for Cane-ite
for use in various structures indispensable to the
fighting forces for hutments, refrigeration, and cold
storage. The same reasons which make Cane-ite the
choice of the services—its insulating properties, its
ease of handling, its strength and rigidity, and its com-
paratively low cost —commend it to you for
use in the hc»me you will build or modernise.
ciis§-£te
INSULATING BOARD
THE COLONIAL SUGAR REFINING CO. LTD, (Building Materials Division]
Marketing
CANE-ITE • MASONITE • C.S.R. SLAG-WOOL • PLASTER PRODUCTS
MEDICAL AND DENTAL PLASTERS
CA3-43
ALWAYS SMOOTH
CRAVEN A
10 for 1/1
20 for 1/1
WMm'i
i
4
Australia asks for your money *
an enemy would take it.
Every £lO National Savings Bond
helps to keep you Free!
505 l MADE SPECIALLY TO PREVENT SORE THROATS
weapons. This seems likely to involve ex-
tensive control, or at least surveillance, of
their industrial facilities. It may involve
political safeguards also.
The great question mark regarding the
military occupation and the ultimate
treatment of Germany is the not yet de-
fined attitude of Russia. We have our
technique and, to some extent, our long-
range plans for Germany and Japan. But
what are Russia’s? Nobody in Washing-
ton is entirely sure.
The overwhelming problem in Europe
will be what to do with Germany—how
to curtail her economic power, re-
garded as one aspect of her military
power, without harming the economy
of Europe, which now more than
ever centres in Germany and de-
pends upon her industrial production;
how to apply in that land without demo-
cratic traditions or strong democratic
movements the essentially democratic
doctrine of the Atlantic Charter that each
nation must choose its own Govern-
ment ; how to induce war-weary Allied
people to maintain the armed occupation
and official surveillance over Germany
which our officials think may be neces-
sary for years.
Removal of Japan’s grip on China,
Manchuria and the Pacific islands will
prove less painful than the unscrambling
of Nazified Europe, since Japan has
attained in the East nothing like the eco-
nomic and industrial dominance that
Germany, even before the Nazi era, had
attained over Europe. But in the East
the problem of conferring liberty upon
people not accustomed to it will be even
more difficult than in Germany, and the
process of finding a substitute for the
imperialism which Sumner Welles says is
dead will tax the ingenuity of statesmen
for years.
Russia, and an Air Raid.
(Condensed from an article by N.Y. “World-
Telegram” Washington correspondent William
Philip Simms.)
The smashing American air raid on the
Ploesti oil fields in Rumania throws a
tragic light on the one-way nature of the
collaboration between the Soviet Union
and the United States.
Belated reports make it plain that
Liberator bombers played havoc through-
out the entire oil region. British as well
as American sources say it was probably
the most telling single bombing job of
the war. It may change the whole course
of the conflict.
It is equally plain that the raid was
costly in lives and ’planes. The German
news agency says 67 American bombers
were lost —52 shot down over Ploesti and
15 forced down in Turkey. The Nazis
are among the world’s best liars, but if
they are anywhere near the truth our
losses in the Ploesti raid were approxi-
mately 50 per cent.
Had Russia and the United States been
on a fully reciprocal basis the raid could
have been even more effective and at a
fraction of the cost in men and material.
Taking off from Egypt, the bombers had
to fly 1200 miles just to reach the target,
the greater part of the distance over
enemy territory. It is now known that
the ’planes were spotted at least two hours
before they reached Ploesti. Fully an
hour before their arrival their route had
been plotted and their destination defi-
nitely revealed. The enemy, therefore,
had ample time to prepare a hot recep-
tion. The ack-acks were tuned up to
concert pitch, and every fighter ’plane
available was already in the air—poised,
high up, ready to pounce on the oncom-
ing raiders.
Had the Americans taken off from the
Russian Kuban, say from around Kras-
nodar, the flying distance would have
been halved. Not only that, but the flight
would have been almost entirely over
the Black Sea. Instead of a two-hour
warning, the defenders of Ploesti would
have had at most some 25 minutes, be-
cause the oil fields, just north of Bucha-
rest, are not far from the coast. Equally
important, the same bombers could
have carried double the bomb load. The
2400-mile round trip from North Africa
required an enormous amount of petrol
at the take-off, drastically reducing the
weight of bombs that could be carried.
The raid was figured out in advance
as carefully as was humanly possible.
They laid out a scale model of the
Ploesti target. The airmen studied it for
weeks—from the ground and from the
air. Finally they bombed the model in
a full-dress rehearsal. Nothing that could
contribute to the success of the expedition
was overlooked, down to the smallest
detail. Surely, therefore, the Allied
strategists must have had more than one
look at the map of the Balkans and the
Middle East. They must have computed
the distances from alternative bases to
Ploesti again and again. If so, they could
not have overlooked the advantages of
bombing any Rumanian objective from
the eastern shore of the Black Sea.
It is an open secret that Russia long
ago drew a line across the map and, in
effect, said to her allies: “Now you stay
on your side of that line.” For some
reason or other Marshal Stalin appears
to be unalterably opposed to British or
American troops fighting side by side
with the Red Army, Presumably the
same objections prevented the Ploesti
raiders from taking off from Soviet soil.
Dragnet Digest.
( Condensed from various acknowledged sources.)
Whatever description may eventually be
affixed to the riots that flared in Harlem early
in August they did one thing for certain.
They helped further to uncover one of the most
embarrassing and most dangerous conditions
in the United States today. It is the situation,
growing tenser by the week, between the negro
and white races. Behind all the immediate
trouble, so far as the threat of overt action is
concerned, is an impatient, irresistible drive
of the negroes on the one hand for a fulller
realisation of the equality which has long been
promised to them, but just as long denied.
And, on the other hand, a stubborn, deepening
and, in some places, broadening resistance of
the whites to that very aim. —Turner Cartledge;
N.Y. “Times Magazine.”
* * * *
One consequence of the German and Quisling
attempt to mobilise labor in Norway is the
increasing flight of Norwegians into Sweden.
The occupying Power has been quite unable to
stop it. The long frontier cannot be effectively
guarded, and, although the Germans threaten,
as is their habit, to take hostages from the
families of the refugees, the exodus from
oppression and the “new order” goes on. The
case is reported in the Swedish press of the
entire population of one village of about 200
souls, including women and children, fleeing
across the frontier, taking with them their
cattle and other belongings. In another case
a teacher turned up at his school one morning
only to find that the whole of the children were
absent: they, too, had fled with their parents
to Sweden. Altogether more than 15,000 Nor-
wegians have fled to Sweden, 10,000 of them
being young men. —‘‘London ‘‘Times” special
correspondent.
* * * *
I note the tendency to speculate on whether
the Germans will surrender to Great Britain
and the United States or to Soviet Russia.
Those who devote themselves to this question
seem sure of a surrender. They overlook the
historic fact that revolutions do not surrender.
Revolutions create an atmosphere which makes
continuance of war or even ordinary life and
surrender impossible. Revolutions do not follow
the rules of the game; rather is there a stam-
pede of the herd in the least expected direction.
For a period revolution produces a vacuum of
responsibility. Those who would surrender
discover that they have nothing to give up.
As long as the enemy is present, anarchy con-
tinues, for anarchy is at such a time a means
of defence. The greater the disorders the less
willing is the enemy to take them over. Those
who speak of a German surrender to this or
that army apparently preclude a German revo-
lution. They assume some orderly process.
Goring will have Hitler killed; Keitel will have
Goring killed ; Keitel will surrender. It is a
pleasant thought that, but if we have to specu-
late without facts that particular formula seems
too simple and roseate. Will not the end of
Hitler shake and shatter Germany like an
earthquake and would it not be just as sound
to assume the possibility of a German or even
a European revolution as a surrender? —
—George E. Sokolsky; N.Y. “Sun.”


Missing friend.
McGRATH, Edward John, son of the late Wil-
liam McGrath, of Toowoomba, Queensland,
last heard of about 25 years ago when he was
engaged in the Building Trade in Sydney, New
South Wales. Would he or anyone knowing his
whereabouts communicate with NATIONAL
TRUSTEES COMPANY, 95 Queen Street, Mel-
bourne, Victoria?
Legal Notice-
IN THE ESTATE of THOMAS WILLIAM
DALTON late of Rongotea in the Provincial
District of Wellington in New Zealand Farmer.
—PURSUANT to an Order made by a Judge
of the Supreme Court of New Zealand at
Palmerston North on the 15th day of July 1943
all persons claiming to be next-of-kin and en-
titled to share in the estate of the abovenamed
deceased and in particular brothers and/or
sisters (or the children of such brothers and/or
sisters) of John Dalton formerly of Thomas-
town County Kilkenny Ireland but later or
Rongotea in the Dominion of New Zealand
Richard Dalton formerly of Thomastown afore-
said but later of Nelson in the Dominion ot
New Zealand Catherine Rodgers (formerly
Dalton) formerly of Thomastown aforesaid but
later of Blue Spur Westland in the Dominion
of New Zealand Ellen Murphy (formerly
Dalton) formerly of Thomastown aforesaid but
later of Kumara Westland in the Dominion ot
New Zealand Margaret Murphy (formerly
Dalton) formerly of Thomastown aforesaid but
later of Piper’s Flat Westland in the Dominion
of New Zealand and Eliza Smith (formerly
Dalton) formerly of Thomastown aforesaid but
later of Melbourne Victoria Australia having
claims against the estate of the abovenamed de-
ceased person who died at Foxton in New
Zealand on the 26th day of January 1941 and
probate of whose will was granted by the
Supreme Court of New Zealand at Palmerston
North on the 19th day of February 1941 are
hereby reouired to send in full particulars in
writing of their claims to HECTOR CHRISTIE
Solicitor of 69 Ridgway Street Wanganui m
New Zealand aforesaid the sole Executor of the
will of the said Thomas William Dalton de-
ceased within six (6) months from the date of
publication of this advertisement after which
the Executor will proceed to distribute the assets
of the deceased among the persons entitled
thereto having regard only to the claims and
demands of which he shall then had
notice. DATED at Wanganui this 15th day of
July 1943 —CHRISTIE, CRAIGMYLE &
TIZARD, Solicitors for the Executor, Wan-
ganui, New Zealand.
STOP GETTING
UP NIGHTS!
Don't get up night after night because of
lack of control over the urine. When your
rest is interrupted, you are tired and worn
out on arising in the morning—totally unfit
for the day’s work. If you get up at night
due to frequent, scanty passages with burning
and discomfort, your kidneys and bladder
1 longer you have suffered from these
symptoms of kidney and bladder trouble, the
more you owe it to your health to heed the
warnings and take immediate steps to correct
the cause of sleepless nights and days of
misery discomfort and inconvenience. When
the kidneys do not function properly, waste
matter and poisonous acids stay in the blood.
In addition to causing frequent scanty pas-
sages you may have backache, rheumatism,
sciatica, lumbago, leg pains, swollen feet and
ankles, dizziness, pufflness under the eyes and
excess uric acid.
Don’t delay 1 Neglect is dangerous. Taka
DOAN’S BACKACHE KIDNEY PILLS. They
strengthen and regulate the kidneys and blad-
der banish pain and aid in ridding the system
'harmful wastes and acid poisons. Get
gOAN’S BACKACHE BIfiHSY. BILLS tQ-day.
NOW AVAILABLE
INTERNATIONAL
TRUCKS
FOR IMMEDIATE DELIVERY
TO ESSENTIAL COMMERCIAL USERS
Supplies of new "INTERNATIONAL" trucks have
been specially imported by the Government as a
Defence measure to ensure efficient road transport
within Australia. These vehicles are equipped with
sturdy, full floating, 2-speed rear axles; imported
all-steel cabs; imported platform bodies with skid
strips, coaming, front loading board and rope rails,
detachable dropsides and tailboard or triple-purpose
stakesides, and other approved essential body types.
Capacities up to tons.
Deliveries of these vehicles can now be arranged for
essential users who obtain the necessary Permit to
Acquire" from the Emergency Road Transport Board.
Application forms for official permits, full details
of prices, specifications and all arrangements for
purchase will gladly be supplied by us direct to
essential users, or if you prefer.
See Your Nearest
INTERNATIONAL HARVESTER
AGENT
INTERNATIONAL
BRISBANE
HARVESTER COMPANY OF AUSTRALIA PTY. LTD.
(INCORPORATED IN VICTORIA)
SYDNEY MELBOURNE ADELAIDE PERTH
If any illustration in “THE BULLETIN" takes your fancy, write
to the MANAGER, who will quote you price for the original.
OVER £64,000
HOUR NEEDED
FOR WAR
£64,000 every hour is needed for
war —£650,000,000 this year to
pay for war equipment.
Study the chart below, and it will
show the yearly increase in the cost
of our fight for victory.
As our offensive quickens, these
costs will rise still further, and we
must find the money.
Every Australian must save every
penny he can, every minute of
each day, and lend it to Australia.
H ONSMVICt '
Make an ADVANCE SUBSCRIPTION
to the
4th LIBERTY LOAN
through any Bank or Stockbroker
I
Buy nothing unless you absolutely
need it. Transfer your spending
power to Australia for war. Buy
more and more War Savings
Certificates, or make an advance
subscription to the 4th Liberty
Loan.
LE.15.19
SERVICE DEPARTMENT.
Wants.
To buy Grove’s Dictionary of Music and
Woolcott’s While Rome Burns. —3387.
To buy Stewart Howard’s You’re Telling Me,
Ah, There, Ffyshe and Forty-Six, also Coast
to Coast (1941). —3386.
Information Sought.
Is there an opening in the merchant navy for
lads of 16 to 17 ? If so, what are the prospects
and where should application be made ?
The age is right at which to commence a sea
career. Most Australian ships carry one or two
deck boys, and ships of the bigger companies
carry apprentices. At present there are far more
applicants than vacancies. Parents’ consent is
necessary if under 18. Applicants must pass
a physical examination. Apply to Marine
Superintendent of any shipping co.
(1) Have surveys been made with a view to
diverting Queensland coastal river waters into
Cooper’s Creek and the D'iamantina? (2) Has
investigation been made of the suggestion of
joining Lake Eyre and the sea? Is there any
authoritative information or report available ?
(1) No. (2) The position was investigated
many years ago, and a report made to Parlia-
ment, the gist of which is contained in a report
in the Adelaide “Advertiser” of May 18,
1905. A short report also appeared in the Adel-
aide “Express” of June 20, 1922. The conclu-
sions arrived at were unfavorable.
Method of determining the distance of the
horizon ?
To half the logarithm of the height of the
eye in feet above sea level add 3.8105. The
figure thus obtained is the logarithm of the dis-
tance in feet, nearly.
What is the equivalent in S.W.G. (wire) of
18 and 19 gauge American ?
American Imperial
S. F W. S.W.G.
IrtSh. Inch.
18 gauge .. .. 0.0475 0.048
19 gauge .. .. 0.0410 0.040
Recipe for luminous paint (regardless of
whether or not the ingredients are on the present
chemical market) ?
Hypopus vulgaris, 100 grammes;
30 grammes; bismuth nitrate, .02
Grind the shell (H. vulgaris) to powder after
heating in clear flame till friable, then mix
ingredients, put into crucible and heat in fur-
nace at maximum heat (1200deg. C.). Leave
in furnace 45 minutes, allow to cool gradually.
Then mix the burnt powder with a good white
varnish. Three coats are needed.
Cause and treatment for “die-back” in roses ?
Actual cause is not known, and there is no
sure method of treatment. The disease may
often be arrested if, after pruning off at least
2in. below the browned limb, you spray with
lime and sulphur at intervals of three days and
dig a tablespoonful of superphosphate about
the base. Water lightly during treatment.
Badly-affected bushes should be dug out.
My galah parrot has token to eating his
feathers. What can be done ?
Give the bird a meaty bone to pick and let
him have suet at least once a week. Rub
vaseline well into feathers to break the habit
and encourage new growth.
Brief Answers.
A.C.S.: No condensers of the type required
are available.... W.W.T.: Anthony Hordern
and Son, Sydney, can supply a book containing
eight colored »reproductions of representative
works of Burne-Jones, 4s. 3d., plus 3£d. post.
Query: On discharge, report to local
National Service Officer or to Ex-Servicemens
Branch in A.P.A. Building, Sydney, where
information will be given H.L.C.: We did
not review any book dealing with hormones....
E.W.8.: Information is not available
J.D.A.: Solo as played in Australia is unknown'
to Hoyle and other international authorities.
As the rules of the local varieties follow those
of auction bridge, where applicable, it should
be permissible to refer back to the last trick
played.
Answers to Correspondents
Name and address must appear on the MS. No
liability is undertaken re contributions voluntarily
submitted; and no MS. will be returned unless
stamps accompany, MS. should be addressed to
the Editor.
The Muse aroused:
L.A.8.:
I wish I were a tree to stand aloof, alone
And view the turmoil of a crazy world go by in mad
. procession;
I’d wave a branch and silently deride
The politicians’ vain inglorious pomp.
... “The Awakening” is a remarkably
effective soporific... .A.R.; “Glamor” rhymed
with “spanner.” Tut... .G.H.M.; Might make
a song E.8.E.: Lightweights 0.C.: “I’ve
been bitten by the poetry bug.” Get a good
insecticide... .J.F.: Make them more definite,
as in the two lines about the cliffs and the
she-oaks J.L.: All “random thoughts”
F.J.S.; If old Pete and his horse are npw m
heaven, that’ll be one consolation for sinners
elsewhere... .M.F.: “‘Curse your
Dacres,’ he said thickly. ‘lt surely is the devil s
own.’” Gad, what cads A.M.D.: Try a
daily C.V.E.: Style scrappy; plot maga-
zinish E.A.H.: But the next minute hed
tell her the stone’s genuine; and then where s
your story?... .E.R.: Merely an anecdote....
R S ; Refuse to shed tears over the nurse s
thwarted love for little Jimmy.. ..M.D.:
Moralistic... .F.W.L.; Pleasant lightweight....
A.C.: Try a woman’s paper E.L.S.: No
use writing while you’re feeling “comfortably
old-fashioned”... .E.M.: “Fate, however,
ordained otherwise” W.R.: We don t re-
print A.McK.W.: Beware of those slick
endings... .E.M.M.: Too airy.


IT
vom
LUDOWICIS
have the answer
Illustrating
the LUDOWICI
PIVOT DRIVE
TJEHIND the fine quality and the assurance of maximum efficiency in
Ludowici Power Transmission Equipment, stand Ludowici Technicians
—men whose knowledge and experience of every power transmission re-
quirement enable them to give a ready answer to your particular problem.
Our reputation has been built on our willingness to give an unbiassed
opinion and to recommend and supply the most suitable equipment for
each power transmission application.
You have only to ask for our advice to have it freely given.
J. C. LUDOWICI & SON LTD.
117 YORK STREET, SYDNEY
g
LUDOWICISi
POWER
TRANSMISSION i
EQUIPMENT |
The Greater
Yonr Estate
The Greater Your Responsibility
Those who carry the responsibility
of property ownership owe it to
themselves as well as to their depen-
dants to share that responsibility
with others worthy of their trust.
They should draw upon the, pooled
wisdom and advice of experienced
men to guide them while they live;
they should so make their disposi-
tions and appoint their executors to
ensure that their intentions will bo
correctly and faithfully interpreted.
The Union Trustee Company, after
over 50 years of trusted service, and
the handling ol tens of millions of
pounds worth of assets, completely
meets all these requirements.
The Union Trustee is a manager who
knows by mature and varied experi-
ence, an executor who never dies nor
grows old nor weary, who is always
independent and favours none, yet is
friendly and approachable.
The greater your estate the greater
your responsibility, and the greater
your need of expert and permanently
dependable service.
For further information consult
The Union Trustee
COMPANY OF AUSTRALIA LIMITED
(Incorporated in Victoria) Established 1885
2 O’CONNELL STREET, SYDNEY
N.S.W. DIRECTORATE:
Hon. Sir Henry Braddon, K.B.E. (Chairman); Colin A. Sinclair
(Vice-Chairman); Hon. Sir Graham Waddell, K.8.E., M.L.C*;
James Kidd; A. E. Heath, C.M.G.; Robert C. Wilson.
Manager: J. G. H. Shipway.
/-
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
West Australian Newspapers, Ltd.
Nominal
Net { —Dividends To Re- Re-
June, Profit. Pref. Ord. Total, serves, serves.!
£, £>£,£,
1933.. 47,515 8 p.c. 8 p.c. 38,160 9,355 120,560
1934.. 62,979 8 „ 8 „ 38,160 14,819 135,379
1935.. 68,616 8 „ 10J „ 47,585 21,031 156,410
1936.. 69,884 8 „ 10! „ 47,585 1 . s 9fin , fiC)n
Prelim, exes, written off, £4019 } 1B >- 8U
1937.. 74,177 8 p.c. lOi p.c. 67,387 16,790 191,480
1938.. 74,439 8 „ 10! „ 63,419 11,020 202,500
1939.. 71,565 8 „ 9i „ 56,821 14,744 217,244
1940.. 56,259 8 „ 7 „ 44,946 11,313 228,557
1941.. 62,806 8 „ 9j „ 56,821 1 „„„ - 42
Superannuation fund, £6OOO .. S “ ’
1942.. 44,849 8 p.c. 7 p.c. 44,946 229,445
Newsprint reserve appears, £13,938 .. 248,383
1943.. 47,285 8 p.c. 7 p.c. 44,946 2,339 245,722
t Subject to goodwill, £298,931.
With its goldmining industry doubled
up from a right to the midriff and
export markets for agriculturists badly
mauled, the Westralian economy is
undergoing transition. Fortunately, rural
incomes generally have been kept fairly
stable by the better returns of pastoral-
ists and dairymen, while alternative occu-
pations have been found for goldminers
in Commonwealth defence construction
and the gouging of strategic minerals.
Moreover, employment figures of recent
months have exhibited signs of gathering
industrial activity, which in contrast to
other States was practically static in the
first three years of war. A hunting-
ground for inter-State manufacturers in
pre-war days, there is plenty of perma-
nent elbowroom for basic local industry
in the West, and the State Government
could help by revision of its wage
standards.
Publishers in their essential task of
news dissemination have been faced with
more war problems than most traders.
W.A. Newspapers has been sole occupier
of the Perth-daily field since 1935, when
purchase of the issued shares of Perth
Newspapers made the evening “News” a
blood relation of the morning “West Aus-
tralian.” Since the outbreak of war,
metropolitan dailies have had their news-
print consumption cut in this drastic
manner;
July, ’4O ..Restriction to 65 p.c. 1938-39 tonriage.
July, ’4l .. „ „ 40 „ „ „
Jan., ’42 .. „ „ 32 ~ „ „
Nov., ’42 .. ~ „ 27 i „ „ ~
The co.’s weeklies, the “Western Mail”
and “Broadcaster,” are also on short com-
mons, and there are limits to the extent
that paper 4 advertising revenue can be made
good by loading radio programmes—the
co. is half-owner of W.A. Broadcasters.
Still, a couple of well-let city freeholds
are handy profit-stabilisers, while Aus-
tralian Newsprint Mills, the Derwent
River (Tas.) venture which has been the
war-time saviour of local newspaperdom,
came good with a maiden 3 p.c. Alto-
gether, rents, interest, dividends, etc.,
brought in £20,021 (up £1369). Coincid-
ing with the A.N.M. div. declaration, first
appearance of the italicised item in p.
and 1. suggests that the earnings of Perth
Newspapers and W.A. Broadcasters are
being retained in the respects accounts of
those cos.
The profit improvement of £2336 re-
corded by the parent last term reflects the
board’s success in adjusting revenues and
expenditures to intensified trading diffi-
culties. That was after allowing £4500
more for taxation (£46,500) and creating
a newsprint equalisation reserve of
£13,938 out of the hat, as far as the ac-
counts indicate. Excluding this £13,938,
the profit shown paid the pref. charge
and left 7.4 p.c. for the ords., against 7,
10.3, 9.1 and 12 p.c. back to 1938-39.
Ord.-holders got another 7 p.c., leaving
£2339 to put by. In 17 years visible
reserves of £245,722 have been accumu-
lated as an offset to the £298,931 paid
for goodwill, and a revaluation of assets
might produce sufficient to cover the
balance.
Plant, which includes an emergency
unit outside the city area, is one item of
very conservative valuation; it moved
down £12,957 net last year:
Paid capital— 1936. 1940. 1942. 1943.
Pref. .. £lOO,OOO £lOO,OOO £lOO,OOO £lOO,OOO
Ord. .. 377,000 627,800 527,800 527,800
Debentures, etc. 152,251 ■ —
Overdraft . . 71,002 29,694
Other liabilities 7,385 23,764 22,638 27,873
Tax reserve .. 20,559 28,992 42,000 62,132
Freeholds 299,033 314,682 324,220 324,220
Plant, etc. .. 107,385 60,023 34,388 21,431
Stock.. .. 27,159 93,801 63,187 46,881
Shares .. 96,754 121,311 141,932 182,237
Sundry debtors 42,004 47,012 30,314 31,761
Consols, cash, etc. 60,126 28,159 53,745 78,178
At the time of purchase the “News” added
some £90,000 to investment account (up
another £40,305 last term), but the board
remains as uninformative about the com-
position and value of the assets con-
trolled as it is about the pup’s earning
power. Stocks are lower by £16,306.
Now pooled on a share-and-share-pro-
portionately principle, a little newsprint
is dribbling in under Lend-Lease.
North Coast Steam Navigation Co.
To Re- Re-
June, Profit. Dividends. serves, serves.
£ £ £ £
1938.. 35,589 8 p.c. = 35,496 93 156,838
1934.. 35,954 8 „ „ 35,496 458 157,296
1935.. 40,924 8 .. ~ 35,496 5,428 162,724
1936.. 41,006 8 „ „ 35,496 5,510 168,234
1937.. 35,911 8 „ „ 35,496 415 168,649
1938.. 42,915 8J „ „ 37',714 5.201 173,850
1939.. 40,191 9 „ „ 39,933 258 174,108
1940.. 42,530 94 „ „ 42,152 378 174,486
1941.. 39,685 10 „ „ 44,370 169,801
1942.. 27,529 8J„ „ 37,715 159,615
1943.. 25,169 8 „ „ 35,496 149,288
Now and again the management breaks
down and exhibits a bit more in p. and 1.
than required to cover the div. Usually,
profits are kept On an even keel by adjust-
ments in depreciation allocations, which
tot up to the tidy sum of £152,100 for
the past six years. Lately provisions for
wear and tear have been nibbled at as an
offset to cost increments, which the
Prices Office has frowned upon being
passed on unlike inter-State ship-
owners, the co. is still a freelance. The
Navy made additional requisitionings last
term, too, when effective tonnage was
further reduced by loss of one vessel.
Throughout these vicissitudes “regu-
lar trade has been maintained,” the board
says, “only by readjustments involving
higher costs.” Immediate replacements
of tonnage, of course, are out of the
question; steel-builders are flat out on
naval construction, while the cost of
wooden ships has risen out of all propor-
tion to their limited carrying capacity.
The co. has sea-carriage from New-
castle to the Tweed practically to itself,
and shipping North Cowsters’ farm and
dairy produce to city markets and back-
loading supplies to storekeepers and
others hasn’t failed to return a dividend
over the past 45 years. Apart from river
bars, the chief gamble is with seasons,
which affect the volume of rural pro-
duction. Last term Nature was less con-
trary, and, within the limits of available
man-power, N.S.W. butter outturn re-
covered from the low level to which it
declined in 1941-42. Nevertheless, despite
a freight adjustment early in the piece,
the larger volume of business offering
failed to offset the added cost of hand-
ling it. After the taxgatherer’s percent-
age had been taken out the contraction
in declared net earnings was £2360, leav-
ing them at 5.6 p.c. on capital, compared
with 6.4 p.c. the year before and 9.5 p.c.
in the less-onerous cost conditions of
1940. Only half a point was chipped off
the dividend (8 p.c.), the £10,327 taken
from reserves to pay it making a total
withdrawal of £25,198 for this purpose
over the past three years.
Notwithstanding, resources of a more
or less liquid nature go on accumulating
at a great bat; £385,340 of the pile shown
represents the written-down value of
Government securities, which are prob-
ably earning half the dividend. Liquidity
on such a scale suggests that the credi-
tors’ item consists primarily of the tax
provision tossed in therewith:
1931. 1939. 1942. 1943.
Paid capital. . £443,700 £443,700 £443,700 £443,700
Liabilities* .. 30,859 60,578 78,354 81,174
Ships . . .. 298,238 314,401 267,195 199,245
Freeholds, etc. 35,859 16,383 14,408 14,408
Liquids . . 318,837 357,568 417,813 478,256
* Including tax provision.
Apart from depreciation of £18,769
(down £1231), most of last year’s addition
of £60,443 to current assets arose through
insurance payments on the vessel men-
tioned ; any capital gain or loss in con-
nection therewith was apparently ad-
justed through inner reserves. What the
management proposes to* do with the
large accumulation hasn’t been an-
nounced, but the policy is in accord with
shipping practice, and will obviously
partly be needed for replacement of re-
tired or lost tonnage.
As for the current term, much de-
pends on the extent to which providers
of essential services catch the ear of the
Government subsidy-giver. Also, follow-
ing Labor’s long neglect of the food
front, on the recuperative power of the
dairying industry in response to the dual
stimulus of a price and labor blood trans-
fusion. At the moment a winter of ex-
ceptional severity has brought pasture
growth to a standstill.
Cascade Brewery Co., Ltd, (Hobart)
To Re-
June, Profit. Dividends. serves. Reserves.
£> £, £, £
1933.. 12,655 5J p.c. = 11,000 1,655 100,645
Written off shares, £5OOO ... 95,045
1934.. 17,607 7 p.c. = 14,000 3,007 99,252
Bonus equalisation reserve, £4020.. 103,272
1935.. 18,849 8 p.c. = 16,000 2,849 106,121
1930.. 25,788 10 „ „ 20,000 6,788 111,909
1937.. 29,297 11J „ „ 22,500 1 . , Q 7 117 in .
Written off freeholds, £l6OO ) °’ lyl il7 * lub
1938.. 31,468 12 p.c. = 25,750 1 , Ql9 11Qniu
Written off freeholds, £3806 ( lly,ulB
1939.. 31,283 12 p.c. = 27,000 !
Written off hotels, £2383 ) I,yUO 120 > 918
1940.. 29,721 12 p.c. = 27,000 2,721 123,639
1941.. 28,238 12 „ „ 27,000 7 199 017
Written off hotels, £2060 $ 122,81/
1942.. 30,768 12 p.c. = 27,000 1 „„„ 19 , ns -
Written off hotels, £2500 ) i- 4 - 080
1943.. 36,145 12 p.c. = 27,000) 127 030
Written off hotels. £6200 ) ’ ’
Immediate Budget worries of the Speck’s
Treasurer are largely the outcome of the
base period adopted for uniform-tax re-
imbursement ; otherwise, war has had
no visible net effects on the
Tasmanian ecoCpmy. Net value of
all recorded production lifted 45 p.c.
over the three years to June, 1942,
when in money terms both primary
and secondary activity was running
at record levels. While the primary
producer has had the benefit of
Government-supported prices, industrial
prosperity reflects the establishment of
new industries like paper-making in both
the. north and south of the island and
war-time activity in old ones, notably
metal-mining and -extraction, textiles and
food-processing. Thanks to the avail-
ability of hydro-electric power, a
£3,000,000 aluminium project to be
financed with Commonwealth moneys is
now to fall into Apple Islanders’ laps,
while paper-makers are waiting only for
the “Cease fire!” to make further large
permanent additions to the island State’s
industrial equipment. Along these natural
lines, factory employment has expanded
over 40 p.c. since the outbreak of war,
and payrolls more than proportionately.
All of which, of course, is doing Cas-
cade’s earnings no harm, despite the 33|
p.c. cut in public beer deliveries supposed
to become operative last March 12
months. Another factor operating in un-
expected manner is the embargo on
inter-State freighting of ale and stout, for
while Cascade has lost its mainland trade
it has stepped into the former trade con-
nections of Victorian brewers in the
flourishing north of the island. With
army demand tossed in and a flood of
visiting officialdom making up for war's
interruption to tourist traffic, the manage-
ment thus collared more in the way of
business than it lost last term, when de-
clared net earnings expanded £5347 and
the profit rate from 13.6 p.c. to 16 p.c.
on capital.
Whether the result was any different
from that stated partly depends on
whether Tasmanian Breweries, the pro-
prietary in which Cascade and I. Boag
and Son merged their beer-making activi-
ties some 20 years back, these days passes
on all its earnings or not. Public div.
was maintained at 12 p.c. for the sixth
successive occasion, and a more conser-
vative attitude than in recent years


Griffith, Hassel and Griffith, Patent Attorneys,
Asbestos House, Cr. York and Barrack Streets, Sydney,
obtain Commonwealth and foreign patents.— Advt.
# * * *
DAVIES & COLIiISON, Patent Attorneys, Collins
House, 360 Collins Street, Melbourne, 0.1. Austra-
lian and overseas Patents an(i Trade Marks.— Advt.
SOME COMMON SENSE
ABOUT
g
Discard the old type
steel Truss. Try the
amazing new Roussel
Appliance. Enables you
to do the hardest work with comfort and security.
Definitely holds, a condition absolutely necessary
for possible improvement or recovery. Made to
suit each individual case and costs little.
Recommended by Doctors everywhere. Satis-
faction guaranteed no matter where you live.
Send for details, self measurement form, testi-
monials and 14 days’ free trial offer. No obligation.
THE KOUSSEIi APPLIANCE CO.,
(Dept. 37), 9 Martin Place, Sydney.
AKUBRA
HATS
The huge output from the Akubra Mills for
the use of the Services has necessarily re-
stricted Civilian supplies. Please remember
that f should you be disappointed in obtain-
ing your favourite hat. But, always ask for
Akubra when you must have a new hat.
Your hatter may have what you want.
And, “when the war is o’er” and
the stream of manufacture runs
freely, you will be able always to
LOOK YOUR BESI IN AN AKUBRA
WAR BONDS
INVEST IN
mm
m
High-speed paper-
winder marking
cartridge containers
mm
m- *
i §:
Standard for the Nation
Richards produce cartridge containers that are held up
as the standard for Australia. No greater tribute could
be paid to the adaptability and initiative of
management and craftsmen, for Steel is Richards
accustomed medium . . . and these containers are paper.
Richards learned versatility in the days when freedom
attended enterprise and initiative. That versatility
proved of incalculable value when weapons by the
million were urgently needed. It will prove indispen-
sable when peace brings its problems of reconstruction
and rehabilitation.
RICHARDS
INDUSTRIES tik LIMITED
ICHARPS
PLANNING FOR PEA CE WHILE GEARED FOR WAR!
Rft MC
PHOTOGRAPHY
THE SIRiIN^WAII
To the engineer on war production
it is vital to know exactly what is
happening inside metal under stress.
Photography, through“photo-elastic
analysis” tells him.
In innumerable fields, Kodak
research, Kodak experience and
Kodak materials are serving the
needs . . . “easing the strain” of
Australia at War.
KODAK
KODAK (AUSTRALASIA) PTY. LTD.
Branches in all States
adopted towards hotel property, written
down £6200. Ordinary depreciation is
confusingly lumped with “trade exes.” at
£5848 ; repairs and taxation, etc., together
£25,954, is another nauseating bookkeep-
ing entry.
Within the limits of available materials
and ingredients, the cordial and cider
side of the business continues to justify
recent capital expenditure, now all re-
covered through depreciation allow-
ances :
1935. 1940. 1942. 1943.
Paid capital.. £200,000 £225,000 £225,000’ £225,000
Mortgages and
deposits .. 121,129 161,979 156,758 134,775
Other liabilities 2,433 5,274 7,989 5,575
Tax reserve . . —•— 19,842 20,000
Hotels, etc. . . 254,246 306,398 316,248 310,066
Plant, etc . . 88,228 95,500 98,551 93,478
Stock. . .. 7,339 17,568 25,462 24,281
Book debts, etc. 18,296 38,043 42,029 31,967
Cash, etc. . . 10,340 14,170 238 1,442
Stores other oos. 65,196 04,646 64,646 64,640
With retained earnings, last year’s re-
duction in debtors following concentra-
tion of trading within Tasmanian borders
enabled the repayment of a sizable
£24,397 of debt. Movements of this
nature rather lessen the possibility of
shareholders being called upon to assist
when the management comes to complete
its interrupted programme of hotel
modernisation, a policy that was pro-
ducing encouraging results when war
took a hand.
Victorian div.-paying goldmines can at
present be counted almost on one hand.
Deborah G.M., on Bendigo’s “redis-
covered” anticline of the same name,
contrived to pay 2s. a share in the year to
July, but more than half the £7593 of
profit came from a 4000-share holding in
the co.’s bouncing foster-child, North
Deborah. With another shilling since
the close of accounts, parent divs. now
aggregate 565. a share. Throughput was
8880 (down 2070) tons in the latest
period, with adverse results upon unit
costs (555. 6d.), while recoveries also con-
tracted from 6.4dwt. to 6.ldwt. “Poten-
tial resources of the mine above the depth
already reached in shaft-sinking are still
considerable,” says the board, but with
man-power as it is shareholders’ imme-
diate prospects are largely linked with
happenings at the adjoining North mine.
Current assets show a surplus of £18,377
over creditors, and the addition of in-
vestments at current market value —they
include 8000 shares in South Deborah
and 3200 in Deborah Extended—would
approximately double the figure.
* * * *
Div. score of Wattle Gully (Vic.) tops
a Bradman-like £309,000 with the 6d,
distribution on September 27, and at
shareholders’ roll-up chairman Merrin
reiterated the expectation that that
quarterly rate would be maintained. At
balance date surplus liquids of £23,300,
including stores, were available to equal-
ise things should that prove necessary
and desirable.
* * * *
Ora Banda Amalgamated (W.A.) may
have to shut down until the man-power
position is better. Development is be-
hind and ore reserves, which have always
been small, are almost exhausted. Pros-
pects in the bottom of the mine are
reported to be good, and there is about
£5OOO in hand.
* * * *
Central Norseman at Norseman (W.A.)
recently purchased for an undisclosed
sum the near-by Blue Bird mine and
plant. Locally the Bird is still considered
capable of laying golden eggs, although
not of the size of those in the past.
* * * *
Yellowdine Gold Areas (W.A.) reports
a net loss of £164 for the year ended
April 30, after writing off £829 for plant
depreciation and crediting £333 interest
on investments. Treatment of remain-
ing ore and tailings was completed on
June 4. Chairman A. J. Monger told
shareholders at their annual meeting in
Perth on September 17 that the directors
had bid £5OOO for Blue Bird mine and
plant, but it was not accepted. Later the
offer of a scheelite show on the Murchison
was turned down owing to inadequate
work done. Meeting resolved to give
shareholders an early opportunity of
expressing an opinion as to the advis-
ability of winding up. A motion to do
this was defeated in a poll on August 21,
1942. Funds on June 30 totalled £15,125,
of which £14,000 was represented by
fixed deposit and war bonds. Annual
cost of maintenance under existing con-
ditions is approximately £lB9 after
crediting interest earnings.
* * * *
South Kalgurli (W.A.) has declared a
first and final dividend of Is. 3d. stg. for
year ended March last. In the preceding
year two payments totalling Is. 6d., to-
gether with Hd. bonus, were made. Re-
serves, blocked out and probable, then
totalled 321,400 tons and throughput
about 115,000 tons a year. Now about
two-thirds of that tonnage is being
treated and the yield is worth not much
more than half. At the present rate of
throughput (6000 tons a month) the mine
is nearly five years ahead of the mill with-
out taking into account additions to re-
serves in the shape of newly-developed
ore which just about offset those ex-
tracted for treatment.
* # * *
New Milano Gold, operating at Mt.
Monger (W.A.), has ceased work on the
New Leslie mine owing to shortage of
labor and unwatering difficulty. In
August a directors’ circular to share-
holders stated the co.’s other show, New
Milano, had been closed down tem-
porarily in order to concentrate on drain-
ing the New Leslie, previous crushings
from which are said to h,ave averaged
15dwt.


'fllVR JO Bln
v:
s»
-
&
ANOTHER l/OHT
THAT NEVER FA/LS.
Ope of Frereadgs IVarJobs is to pror/de batteries for
an amazing fighting apparatus which is attached to a/i
Life-sa ring ra/hs earned on the gattanf merchant ships
There’s another war job for
all of us —
SAVE ESSENTIAL
WAR SUPPLIES
For that reason get the most out of your flash-
light batteries. They last longer when you use
a series of short flashes. Remember the quickest
way to burn out batteries is to leave light on for
nfinutes at a time.
m
eVEREAdy
ttBADE-MARK
The extra long life battery
LEND NOW—SPEND LATER! BUY NATIONAL SAVINGS BONDS.
With care.
ill;
i
1
m
mt
i
SHI
n
I
i
i
■
your
will outlast the war !
There is no need to worry about your
Feltex floor covering. It’s made to
last—and retain its beauty. Treat it
well, and it will serve you well. . . thus
enabling you to buy more War Bonds.
Felt & Textiles of Australia
Manufacturers of
FELTEX Floor Covering,
F 1.34 .16
Business, Rollery, Etc.
The Spirit of the People
On several occasions during a man’s
lifetime he will have cogitated on
the difficulty of getting the available
men in a country to make the best use of
the. materials and resources of the coun-
try. Such occasions are usually during
a depression or while a war is on. He
may come to the conclusion that it
is something wrong with the money sys-
tem that is creating the difficulties. And
he may be heard to observe that, what-
ever the shortcomings of a war effort, it
is remarkable how “they” can find money
to finance a war when it is so difficult
to provide money for the relief of un-
employment during a depression or to
provide adequate civilian hospital facili-
ties at any time. The “they” who are
held blameworthy are vague people
“authority” of some kind, but often, for
convenience, almost anyone outside the
class of the person who is doing the
talking.
This comfortable habit of earmarking
authority as an abstract body of persons
is a danger to the progress of any of
those desirable ambitions in the direc-
tion of improved national welfare that
ax-e so much a part of most political talk
at the present time. It is essential in the
democratic way of living for an intelli-
gent interest to be taken in the conduct
of public affairs, and for it to be realised
at all times that, if authority is some
vague bureaucratic or political machine,
its becoming so is the result of neglect of
national affairs by the people as a whole.
In this age of rapid invention and
‘luxury” distraction, to which the pres-
ent war represents only an interruption,
there is decidedly a tendency on the part
of the population of this and almost any
other country to allow politics and eco-
nomics to take the most convenient
course until real, nasty trouble produces
a stoppage in our carefree way of life.
Ihen there is a temporary ceasing of
pleasure-seeking, and instead we see a
period of frantic soul-searching, accom-
panied by just as much recrimination.
The truth behind the contrast between
the lavish expenditure on war and the
usually difficult financing of hospitals is
that in war-time public feeling is aroused
to a far greater height than in peace-time.
National danger brings out the spirit of
sacrifice in any people worth its salt.
There are the slackers, it is true, and
among those to whom war has brought
additional employment and pay an en-
tirely wrong slant on demands of the
occasion may exist. But, in general,
people in danger of invasion are pre-
pared to put up with burdens the like of
which a fraction would not be tolerated
m ordinary circumstances.
The people who pay for the colossal
waste of war could, at much less
cost, pay for the most elaborate
and adequate hospitals in peace-time,
as well as provide themselves with
something in the way of “social
security” that would be genuine and
worth while. War, social services and
“social security” all have to be paid for
by the people. But the spirit in which
they make the payment largely governs
the method of payment—and the result.
If the people are willing and intelligent
they will realise that the most efficient
and economical way of paying for any-
thing is to do so by direct and open
means. If they are after “something for
nothing,” and fall for the devious and
deceptive methods of inflation, they
usually pay heavily, by indirect means,
for something that in the end is unsatis-
factory to them.
It is said that a people gets the Gov-
ernment it deserves. That is probably an
exaggeration. But there is more than a
morsel of truth in it. A politician who
stands up and says he is going to better
the lot of the class he claims to repre-
sent simply by taking away from some-
one else is a man to be distrusted. There
are two sides to every question, and the
one-sided view is a non-co-operative one.
Envy is a common fault, and in poli-
tics it is a grave fault. The successful
man is often envied without regard to
the efforts and sacrifices he made in order
to be successful; all that is apparent to
the multitude may be that he has wealth
or position, and nothing more. In their
envies and their greeds and their neglects
the people may do themselves great
damage. Whatever class-legislation they
may introduce, through their political
representatives, will have its effect on
the country as a whole ; if it was mis-
guided or unfair legislation it will have a
bad effect. Every such action has its re-
action for good or otherwise.
Present-day life depends greatly upon
the spirit in which the people co-operate.
So scattered and specialised are the indus-
tries which go to make up an industrial-
ised nation that it would be quite impos-
sible to build a modern cottage without
a really great amount of co-operation
within a country, A bark hut may have
neen a not-uncommon sight in the days
of which Henry Lawson wrote. It could
be made by one man out of the materials
at hand in the bush, plus a few nails and
a bit of fencing wire. But the type of
cottage which suburban municipalities
insist upon is the product of numerous
industries working in co-operation ; there
are the brick industry, the timber indus-
try, the gypsum industry, the steel, other
metals and electrical industries, as well as
the architectural professions and the
bricklaying, carpentering and plumbing
trades. In association are the real estate
and finance people, with lawyers and civil
servants on the sidelines.
Intelligent co-operation in public affairs
seems to be one of the exactions that pro-
gress demands in return for the new way
of life the world has chosen to live or has
been forced to live. Probably 90 p.c. of
the white male working population of this
age are specialists. Co-operation is neces-
sary to bring them and their products
together. Yet it is doubtful if the spirit
of non-co-operation was ever so forcibly
advocated as we have seen it in Aus-
tralia over the last dozen years. It has
reached its climax during the last couple
of years, and for some time it has been
given assistance, possibly in ignorance, by
the present Government’s financial and
social outlook. For a great deal too long
the Curtin Government did not seek the
financial co-operation of two million
comparatively affluent wage - earners,
except in a half-hearted way. Now it is
becoming almost desperate in its appeals
tor money on a voluntary basis. The
Government did not care how badly it
hurt the middle-class income-earner in its
lopsided taxation policy. But that was
partly because it did not know enough
to realise that the financial co-operation
of the entire Australian people, consumers
as well as producers, is necessary for the
winning of this war.
The strikes taking place in the Com-
monwealth amount to an outrageous
example of selfish or stupid non-co-opera-
tion. There are agitators purposely creat-
ing friction for their own murky ends,
but at the same time many of the strikers
themselves are not at all ashamed or per-
turbed at what they are doing. In very
few unionised trades can it be said that
pay and overtime are not far higher
than pre-war, and that, so far as money
is concerned, many unionists are much
better off even after taxation has been
paid. The burden of war to them so far
has been light as a feather.
Just as industry cannot carry on with-
out national co-operation, and just as all
financial and economic systems, however
monetary” and mathematical they may
appear to be, depend very much for their
success upon the behavior and under-
standing of human beings, so any ad-
vance in living standards and “social
security” depends on the work and co-
operation of the people themselves. The
most we can expect is to reap what we
have sown. In a co-operative life-assur-
ance concern the returns to those who
join in the office are usually fully satis-
factory. There the whole transaction is
clear-cut, with little humbug. If there is
any attempt to scramble the brains of
the assured it is usually done, unauthor-
ised, by salesmen. But even at that the
goods sold are all right in a sound
office.
The “new order” stuff we hear about
is largely brain-scrambling. Any desir-
able new order will have to be worked
for by the people themselves. And they
will have to take a more intelligent in-
terest than hitherto in the industrial and
political make-up of their country in
order to get anywhere. In doing so they
may have to buck quite a lot of barnacles


WANTED, Manufacturing and Marketing
rights of Patent Household Appliances, Agri-
cultural or other lines. Will finance if attrac-
tive. Must be genuine vendors. —FEDERAL
MACHINERY CO., LTD., Arncliffe, N.S.W.
\ MAT
The
Uninterrupted Service...
constant, competent and
conscientious
When you entrust the direction of your financial affairs, or the administration
of an estate, to Burns Philp Trust Company Limited, you can depend upon the
most efficient service, the most competent direction, the most trustworthy
advice in all matters relating to the wise control of financial affairs. The
service of this Company is continuous. It is a permanent institution com-
manding the cumulative knowledge of directors and executives of wide
financial experience.
In your own interests, and the interests of your dependents and beneficiaries,
you should investigate the service this Company offers.
DIRECTORS—-Jamas Burns - Robert John Nosworihy - Lewis Armstrong - Joseph Mitchell
Manager—C. H. Chaster
Burns Philp Trust
COMPANY LIMITED
7 BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY
PHONE: B 7901. Box 543 S, 5.P.0., Sydney.
BP 52-43,
“APPLE PIE, COFFEE, AND KOLYNOS TOOTH
POWDER, PLEASE”. Maybe that sounds a weird com-
bination . .. until you remember that druggists in America
(chemists to us) serve food as well as medicines and toilet
preparations. New American trend is use of tooth powder
for dental hygiene, and already the idea s catching on here.
Limited supplies of Kolynos Tooth Powder are now avail-
able at all chemists and stores. We think you’ll like it.
Americans do. It’s a powder form of the famous Kolynos
Dental Cream. KOLYNOS TOOTH POWDER
Ruwolt
m
m
• •••
.
m ;
The first 25-Pdr. Gun Howitzer made in Australia.
As Major Co-ordinating Contractors in Victoria,
Ruwolt’s, together with many Sub-con tractors, have the dis-
tinction of producing the first 25-Pdr. Gun Howitzer ever
made in Australia.
Since that gun was successfully tested, many more have
been produced at Ruwolt’s.
Although now mainly engaged on munition work we
are also able to execute much of the requirements for the
essential Metal, Paper and Rubber Industries.
Then, when Australia has successfully overcome its
present difficulties, we will again be in a position to im-
mediately attend to all your requirements, similarly to what
we have done in the past.
CHARLES RUWOI.T PTY. X.TD.
530 Victoria Street, Richmond, E.l
Victoria, AUSTRALIA.
in politics, the bureaucracy, trade-union-
ism and sometimes in industry. They
will find that many such barnacles thrive
on social and political strife, which are
enemies to the co-operative spirit essen-
tial to the desires and aims of Aus-
tralians.
Properly led, a people can achieve most
rational objects if it is prepared to pay
for them. Not only money is required
for payment; intelligence and the right
spirit are just as necessary. Sound leader-
ship is indeed essential; but that, too,
in the first case has to spring from
among the people.
The various Institutes of Public Affairs
throughout the Commonwealth should
make housing one of their long-term
studies. There is a great need for
better housing in every city, as well
as in many country areas. After
nearly four years of war the lag in
new dwelling construction has become
a really big deficiency; there was a
shortage even before 1939. There is, in
particular, a scarcity of cottages, made
especially noticeable by the springing-up
of young war-time families. The housing
problem should be tackled with two prin-
cipal points in view—type of construc-
tion and means of finance. If an inexpen-
sive but sound method of building is
developed it will help to solve the prob-
lem of finance, as it won’t be necessary
to find so much money. There is every
prospect of both method and finance
being made more attractive to the home-
seeker if a really national outlook is fos-
tered by the right people. Dampney and
other concrete methods have attractions,
and there is talk from the other side of
the world of extensive use of plastics
and stainless steel. On the finance side, it
is clear that the war will end with many
people in possession of a great volume of
unspent and lightly-taxed war earnings.
Although the war-time inflation that has
already occurred and is likely still to oc-
cur will make this volume illusory in some
respects, the post-war stage would seem
to be generally set for the purchases of
equities in homes on a large scale. It is
necessary therefore to look get
ready for the day the war ends with plans
to prevent the dissipation of the people’s
savings through unwise spending, through
the activities of real-estate sharks and
jerry-builders, through uncontrolled prices
of building materials and through further
general inflation that arises from im-
proper Government finance and lack of
the necessary organisation at the critical
time. A greater individual possession of
homes by the Australian people would be
a stabiliser to our politics and an encour-
agement to education in citizenship.
* * * *
Waste remains one of the big war-time
drains on Australian living standards.
Apart from the unavoidable wastage of
war, there is a widespread waste of
materials, time, labor and money in
badly-planned ventures and union-ridden
undertakings. Not that the trade-unionist
in the ordinary way is a hindrance to the
war effort; far from it. But there is so
much organised racketeering in the con-
trol of some unions that members are
almost afraid to do a fair day’s work,
and in some cases are liable to be fined
or otherwise victimised if they do. All
this waste and “polling” has to be paid
for both in cash and lost production.
The cost of the war effort is increased by
jobs overloaded with overtime and other
charges, and the national output is
lowered by the enforcement of “go-slow.”
The taxpayer pays, on the one hand, in
increased taxation or inflation, and, on
the other, through a living standard re-
duced by reason of the inadequate pool
of production.
Waste is a prime factor in the
inflation we now see menacing the
security of the Commonwealth. It works
this way. The reduced production per
man resulting from “go-slow” means that
more man-power has to be taken from
civil work and put on to the defence pay-
roll, which adds to the cost of defence.
More overtime is worked, which also adds
to defence costs. The Government is
compelled to budget for a greater defence
expenditure, and, as our present Gov-
ernment has been ever reluctant to tax
the wage-earning class adequately, a
larger Budget “gap” has to be financed
by bank credit —a most inflationary
method of finance. The inflation of pro-
duction costs in combination with the
effects of bank credit usage again increases
the cost of war production, enlarges the
Budget gap and induces the use of more
inflationary bank credit. And so the dog
starts to chase his tail in earnest. A little
analysis will show that without waste and
with a minimum of inflation it would be
possible to cut off a large percentage
from the present cost of war to Australia,
at the same time increasing production
and maintaining the monetary stability
that is so essential to the retention of
confidence and credit.
* * * *
Before the war Australia produced, at
Broken Hill and Mt. Isa, 15 p.c. of the
world’s total lead supply with a contri-
bution of 250,000 metric tons. At the
present time America and Australia are
the chief source of lead supplies for the
Allied nations. Before the war the
United States turned out 416,000 metric
tons in a year, Mexico 218,000 tons and
Canada 187,000 tons. Production has
expanded since, but in 1937 North and
South America were responsible for
55 p.c. of all lead production. Soviet
output was put at 130,000 tons pre-war.
There is no general shortage of lead in
the world today, although shipping prob-
lems have made it scarce enough in
Britain, and Axis countries are under-
supplied. The position in America is,
comparatively speaking, so comfortable
that lead has been released as a substi-
tute for other metals, and the Govern-
ment has discontinued the import of lead
from Canada and Australia and has re-
duced the priorities on shipments from
South America.
* * * *
Treasurer Chifley has stated that last
year “Australia manufactured munitions
for and provided services and supplies
for other Governments involving a
further expenditure of, in round figures,
£26 millions.” There is unofficial talk
that recoveries include payments by
Britain for certain munitions used in
the Australian theatre of war, and that
the £26 million is not made up entirely
of munitions shipped away from this
country. If Britain is in any way subsi-
dising Australia’s war effort, let us ac-
knowledge it at the appropriate time for
acknowledgment—that is, now.
In 1941-42 taxation per head in the
Commonwealth rose to £33 3s. 3d., of
which £l5 9s 6d. was income and divi-
dend tax, and 11s. 2d. unemployed-relief
and hospital taxes, etc. (In N. S. Wales
unemployed-relief tax was givefl another
name by McKell in 1941.) Customs and
excise figured at £7 19s. Id. In 1938-39
total Australian taxation was £l7 19s. 6d.
a head. During the year just past theie
was an increase in income tax, and higher
sales tax and excise operated for a full
year. One of the immediate tasks ot the
new Commonwealth Government will be
to introduce a Budget for this 1943-44
financial year. \


THE SERVICE MAN
On to Finschhafen.
“Ek Dum”: Operations in New Guinea
might have been described generally in
the past week as cleaning up and mop-
ping up, save at Finschhafen.
The airfields of Lae and Salarhaua and
the Markham are being put in ordar and
the dead counted, while flying columns,
taken part of the way by air, push out
up the Markham, guided by the crump
of the bombs which were breaking up
bridges inland along the route to Bogad-
jim and the Maclay coast, on the northern
side of the Huon Peninsula.
The Markham track admits of fairly
swift movement, but except in one case
not swift enough to catch any larger
bands of retreating enemies. The excep-
tion was at the old Lutheran Mission of
Kaiapit, about 60 miles air line from
Lae, one of the oldest in the inland.
It is a typical mission: old red iron roof,
bell, palms, pigs and the cleaner lap-
laps. It lies to the east of the Markham,
and its approaches are across the eastern
tributaries of the river, which runs up
the western fringes of a broad valley hug-
ging the foothills. On its eastern side
there is a wide valley bottom scored with
many watercourses.
The enemy did not expect troops to
make their way at speed after rain on
the ranges. Two hundred Jap denizens of
Kaiapit were surprised when, the A.I.F.
having occupied Lae only on Thursday
at lunchtime, a substantial detachment of
Australians turned up at the mission, 100
miles or so away, by road at 3.50 p.m.
the following Sunday, after a seven-hour
forced march with full packs up from a
landing point.
There was a sharp fight among the high
kunai, terminated by dusk. The enemy
had the worst of it, the Australians hav-
ing immediately taken to the bayonet.
The enemy kept up worrying patrol
assaults throughout the night. In the
morning a fierce fight was joined again,
but possession of a ridge on the right of
the enemy’s positions round the airstrip,
the main objective, gave the visitors an
observation point from which every
enemy movement was tabbed and sig-
nalled. As each foxhole and strongpost
♦was pin-pointed groups of attackers
closed its egresses and cleaned it out with
grenades, bayonets and tommy-guns.
The barracking from the hill as this
operation went forward reminded some-
body of Flemington on Cup Day.
There were about 120 Japs to be buried
when it was over. They had fought
grimly. The remaining 80 disappeared
into the kunai.
In the result a field had been acquired
only 70 miles from Madang. The enemy
will have reason to regret that his garri-
son was not stronger.
Finschhafen Invaded
Meanwhile other patrols were mop-
ping up the 600 survivors whom General
MacArthur believed to have escaped from
Lae into the hills to the north. To the
east on September 22 another Australian
landing had taken place a few miles from
Finschhafen, which in many ways is a
more important centre than Lae.
There is a fine, well-enclosed, if small,
harbor, bounded by a long scimitar of
wooded land on the east and by orderly
plantations on the west. Its narrow
mouth faces north. Possession of it
would go far towards securing complete
control of the 60-mile-wide Dampier
Strait and of Vitiaz Strait, and mak-
ing the enemy posts on the west end of
New Britain untenable. Finschhafen is
a pleasant spot despite the malaria that
lurks there. It is the site of the oldest
Lutheran mission in New Guinea —
founded in 1886 —with a little dairying
and a small boatbuilding industry.
The landing was made on a beach
about 600 yards long, just above the
Song Creek, which is about six miles
north of Finschhafen. This was the best
approach to the useful airfield which
served the haven, and to the harbor
mouth and long bit of beach available.
On the north Finschhafen is shielded
by a belt of forest before the plan-
tations round the harbor are reached.
A road connects Heldsbach plantation,
just south of the creek, with Finschhafen.
The landing followed ritual —it was
made in the “piccaninny daylight” of
Thursday morning, after a smashing
broadside from naval units to break up
shore defences, some of which had been
built only in the past few days. U.S.
service troops and Papuan infantry came
ashore with the first Australians and
helped to establish the bridgehead. The
enemy had reconnoitred the invasion fleet
the evening before, when three bombers
dropped desultory pills, but there was no
air attack on landing craft, which were
covered by a powerful air umbrella and
the guns of the supporting squadron.
Naval units retiring after the landing were
attacked by 20 to 30 bombers, covered
by 30 to 40 fighters. Neither ships nor
men were damaged, and in a 25-minute
fight 40 enemy ’planes were wrecked. The
Allies lost three, but one pilot was saved.
There was fierce and spasmodically con-
tinuing resistance ashore which the A.I.F.
hushed with the bayonet. Separate parties
clearing the inland flank and working
round the flank of the harbor defences
and down the beach were met by
machine-gun fire, grenades and some
mortar fire.
This resistance continued along the
road to Finschhafen, but by the week-
end the air strip had been captured after
considerably more fighting than had been
necessary to take Lae. On Sept. 26 the
A.I.F. was reported only 1300 yards from
the anchorage. Another A.I.F. force by
this time had worked down the coast
from the west and was drawing in on
the port from the south.
All the signs promised a stiffer final
resistance by the enemy than at Lae.
On September 24, about midday, nine
enemy bombers, escorted by 30 fighters,
arrived to attack the Finschhafen troops,
but they were driven off and forced to
jettison their bombs. In the dogfight,
however, though Lightnings were in use,
the Allies lost two machines and the
enemy one, plus a probable. There was
no information about the types of the
enemy machines, but new types have re-
cently arrived in the New Guinea area.
It seemed certain that before Finschhafen
was finally captured the enemy would
make a last stand.
The success in the Markham Valley by
this time had been followed up seriously
by aircraft. All the way up the river to
its headwaters on the fold which dips
down to the Ramu country on its
northern side, enemy lairs had been plas-
tered with bombs and sown with thou-
sands of bullets and small cannon shells,
till the track could be picked out easily
by columns of smoke from burning vil-
lages. At some points ack-ack resistance
was met, and here and there blasts from
exploding ammunition dumps advertised
that there had been more than a little
enemy activity along this route to the
mountains and the Madartg and Ramu
sides. All the south and centre of the
Huon country will soon be clear.
Three A.I.F. Divisions
It was announced—after Mr. Churchill
had made laudatory comments about the
Ninth Division’s work that the Lae
operations had been the work of large
elements of the Seventh and Ninth Divi-
sions, A.I.F.
Thus all three overworked A.I.F. divi-
sions provided the contingents on the
main New Guinea fronts—the Seven-
teenth Brigade, Sixth Division, from
Wau to Salamaua, joined in the
last weeks by militia and Americans ; the
Ninth men landed at Hopoi. The detach-
ments of the Seventh made their way
from the Markham and reached Lae first.
More than 6300 enemy dead have up
to the present been found in the Lae-
Salamaua area since the battle of Mt.
Tambu in mid-August, but it is not clear
over what period they were killed, how
many were found at Lae and how many
at Salamaua, and how many appeared
to have been destroyed by aircraft.
Certainly, no fighting took place dur-
ing the final advances from Hopoi and
the Markham and across the Francisco
River to justify the opinion that there
were more than hundreds of the enemy
remaining in those places at most. The
losses inflicted during the advance of the
Seventeenth Brigade and the Americans,
however, had been heavy. Australian
casualties in the Lae, Finschhafen and
Markham operations have been reported
as light.
The Battle of the Air
The Allied command has used its air
superiority to the full both in New
Guinea and along other parts of the Aus-
tralian defence arc. On Sept. 21 the main
attacks were on Cape Gloucester at the
n.-w. end of New Britain, where 94 tons
of bombs were dropped ; at Kimbe Bay,
where ack-ack fire from the beach de-
stroyed an Allied fighter ; and at Finsch-
hafen, where troops were supported by
the bombing of the rear defences, of
surface craft and of the Sio village, beside
the anchorage. A couple of reconnais-
sance ’planes made a feeble stab at
Moresby. Madang’s communications with
Bogadjim, on Astrolabe Bay, south of it,
were swept with 120,000 rounds of am-
munition and blasted with 54 tons of
bombs. Three machines were lost to ack-
ack fire, but there was no air interception.
Three enemy fighters were shot down
and another probably destroyed against
the loss of a single Allied machine when
nine bombers and 16 fighters raided Naz-
dap aerodrome in the Markham Valiey.
Wewak aerodromes had a heavy pounding.
On September 23 Madang communica-
tions were again blasted ; so were Finsch-
hafen and island depots off its coast. Cape
Gloucester installations absorbed 68 tons
of bombs without making any air attempt
to fend off the attack. A 1500-ton
freighter was sunk in the Bismarck Sea.
Over the Hopoi landing place east of
Lae escorted medium bombers tried to
attack shipping assembled for various
purposes. Four bombers and five
fighters were destroyed for the loss of
one Allied machine. And 18 enemy
bombers with fighter cover made an on-
slaught on the Allied base at Tsilli Tsilli
in the Watut Valley—which runs into the
Markham some miles from its mouth,
from the goldfield region further south.
On September 22 it was announced
that an R.A.A.F. machine had shot down
an enemy float ’plane off Cape Wessel, in
Arnhem Land.
The communique of September 23 re-
ported no fewer than 15 aerial opera-
tions —two in Timor against Koepang
and Lautem installations, nine in the New
Guinea area and the rest in the Solomons.
On September 24 G.H.Q. mentioned
that another 73 tons of bombs had been
dropped on Cape Gloucester area, that
the building area of Finschhafen had been
bombed and strafed by night reconnais-
ance machines prior to the landing, and
that 21 tons of bombs and 48,000 rounds
afterwards were expended in co-opera-
tion with ground troops.
Apart from co-operation in the Finsch-
hafen area, attacks continued all round
the Australian arc, from Vella Lavella
to Amboina. Six enemy craft at night
bombed Buna, causing “damage and
casualties.”
At the week-end a 2000-ton enemy
vessel was sunk at Kavieng. Attacks on
installations, shipping and barges con-
tinued all the way from the Solomons,
where the enemy showed more air activity
than in New Guinea, to the fringes of the
East Indies,
The Gilberts Raided
The furthest-flung raid in the mid-
Pacific was made on Sept. 18-19 by a
U.S. aircraft-carrier force, operating with
land-based army and navy ’planes, on
three Gilbert Island bases, Tarawa,
Makin, Apamama, and on Nauru. At
Tarawa, besides damage to the aerodrome,
eight bombers were destroyed on a run-
way ; at Makin, four. At the other bases
considerable wreckage was caused in
camp areas. Six “O” fighters were shot
down, and probably four others, and eight
fighters were damaged; two enemy
bombers were destroyed. And the U.S.
forces in 200 sorties lost only four
fighters, in spite of a vigorous defence
from land and air.
On the Southern Front.
“Ek Dum”: No sooner had the Eighth
Army functioned in part with Lieut.-
General Clark’s Fifth Army behind the
Salerno beaches than the grim battle for
Naples and for the approaches to the
Mediterranean coasts began. It was a
hard struggle in which all the advantages
of communications were on the side of
the enemy, since Italy is well served with
north-south roads and railways which
are not all easy to attack.
Between Naples itself and the Salerno
amphitheatre there was the strong barrier
of the Sorrento Peninsula, along the
southern face of which a road is carved
out of the frowning but lovely cliffs.
Near the seaward end this highway
swoops over a 1400 ft. pass on the narrow
peninsula—which is shaped remarkably
like Devon and Cornwall—and drops the
traveller carelessly in the lap of Sor-
rento, among the palms and gardens and
wistaria terraces. As the heights are
crossed the vast, glittering prize for
which the Eighth and Fifth Armies are
fighting comes into view—the teeming
harbor, Castellammare and its naval area
in the foreground ; the grand sweep of
the bay, the road along the coast via
Pompeii and Herculaneum, and the great
city of Naples away to the north-east
beyond Vesuvius, whose 4000 ft. height is
the middle of the landscape to the right,
his lips covered with lava dribble
At night when the vast sheet of lights
which limn the city and its suburban
towns is reflected in the waters of the
bay, and the eel fishers are out with their
spears and red flares, Vesuvius sticks out
a red tongue and —as Virgil saw him do
2000 years ago~-“licks the clouds.” Out
iO sea is the outline of the twin breasts
° Ai pn m a darned blue bathing suit.
Aimost within sight on the north-west
ot Naples is the mouth of Hades itself,
where in Homer’s day the Cimmerians
1V !" ln c - ,_* r orest in eternal blackness.
ine Sixth Book of the TEneid was last
week an apt volume for Rommel to carry
m his knapsack:
Easy is the descent into Avernus.
Rin day Auld cloot ie’s gates stand open;
‘ rct t ra f e y° ur steps into the clean pure air,
this the task, this the toil.
Round the east of Vesuvius are the fer-
tile plains of the Campagna, and to the
east and south-east of them the twisted
turbulence of the nearer volcanic hills
against the black background of the
Apennines.
Between the green plains forming the
approaches to Naples and the Allied
armies there is the high wall of the
peninsula, rooted into the surrounding
hills, with the main route from Vietri to
Nocera, across the base and on to Pom-
peii and the highway between Vesuvius
and the sea, dominated from various
heights, and the other road to Avellino
further to the east, blocked also by the
enemy.
The cliff road past painted Amalfi on
the southern side of the peninsula was
soon in Allied hands, for it was under
both naval and Ifind fire for much of its
length.
Apart, however, from direct approaches
the Allied commanders had difficult flanks
to protect. Avenues of supply and roads
on which the Germans might have broken
to the rear as far afield as Potenza had to
be cleared, and the great air centre of
Foggia, only about 70 miles across the
Italian peninsula on the Adriatic side,
called for drastic attention. Part of the
Eighth Army made a swift drive on
Foggia, travelling 27 miles in a single
day. At the week-end it had come within
sight of its goal.
The Fight for Naples
A fortnight after the landing one of
the biggest battles of the war, having
regard to the size of the terrain, was going
on round the flanks of Vesuvius, which
incessantly echoed back the thunder of
guns and the incessant crump and crackle
of mortar and machine-gun fire.
Columns of rancid smoke marked
points of operation right across Italy,
where the Eighth Army was gradually en-
gulfing vital communication points and
doing its best to outflank the south-
eastern barrier of the Germans. One
mountain stronghold after another fell,
beginning with Potenza, and it was clear
at the week-end that unless the enemy
could greatly increase his strength he
would soon have to begin a large-scale
retirement northward.
This he obviously knew. With the
Allies in possession of the craggy island
Ischia at the north-west end of the Bay
of Naples, and of Capri at the south-
western end, and breaking down the bar-
ricades at the base of the Sorrento Penin-
sula, his objective appeared to be to stay
in Naples long enough to leave it a ruili.
German Atrocities
Horrible tales came out of Naples,
along with the detritus from the black
smoke columns and the smell of burning
oil and rubber. There fires from Allied
bombing and artillery fire were supple-
mented by blazes caused by German fire-
sticks and demolition charges. The sani-
tary and water systems were things of the
past. Brave little bands of Italian sol-
diery were fighting the Germans, with
civilian help, along the waterfront in an
endeavor to save docks and installations.
Tanks and mobile gun units winkled
them out from points of vantage in the
ruined streets. Terrible stories of execu-
tions of civilians in batches of 50 were
told. But, ruthless as he is, the enemy
was so fully occupied and so hard pressed
that he, could scarcely have had time or
men for killing civilians on a large scale.
The Battle for the Heights
For the first 11 days of the battle the
Germans held heights commanding the
approaches to the Vietri-Nocera road,
on the Salerno side, and along the
Salerno - Avellino - Naples road further
east, a narrow strip forming the left flank
of the Fifth Army’s bridgehead, perhaps
seven miles long from the sea.
Allied positions from the German-held
heights must have looked like a relief
map. The details of the landscape are as
clear as those of the plain below the Blue
Mountains seen from Capstone. Some
of the heights from which the defences
of this part of the line were conducted
rise to 2500 ft., and the countryside is a
giant heap of volcanic ddbris, forming
crag-bound valleys and gorges intercon-
nected with labyrinthine paths and roads
across ravines whose bridges were gradu-
ally destroyed, either by attack or by the
retreating enemy.
By September 21 the heights overlook-
ing the north of the Salerno bridgehead
had been given up, and the Germans were
moving back, blowing up bridges and
pulling down cliffs with explosives in an
unsuccessful endeavor to shake the firm


Public Notice.
NOTICE IS HEREBY GIVEN that all persons
claiming to be the next-of-kin of CHARLES
ALEXANDER KING STREET, also known as
Donald Alexander Athorn, late of Quilpie, m
the State of Queensland, Drover, deceased, are
hereby required to forward proof of their re-
lationship to the PUBLIC CURATOR, Bris-
bane, on or before 16th January, 1944, and
that after the expiration of the date mentioned
the Public Curator will proceed to distribute
the assets of the said deceased amongst the
persons entitled thereto, having regard only
to the claims of which he shall then have had
notice.
Divorce Notices.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF TASMANIA
(Divorce).
LAUNCESTON DISTRICT REGISTRY.
TO WALTER HUBERT ROBINSON formerly
of Launceston in the State of Tasmania.—
TAKE NOTICE that a Petition has been filed
in this Court endorsed with a notice to you
to appear and answer the charges in the Peti-
tion of DOREEN THELMA ROBINSON of
27 Cameron Street Launceston in the State ot
Tasmania. praying for a dissolution of mar-
riage In default of your so appearing you will
not be allowed to address the Court and the
Court will proceed to hear the said petition
proved and pronounce judgment in respect
thereto AND TAKE FURTHER NOTICE
that for the purpose aforesaid within Thirty
days after the date of this publication an appear-
ance must be entered at the Principal Registry
of the Supreme Court of Tasmania Macquarie
Street Launceston in the State of Tasmania
should you think fit so to do. — (1.5.) T.
KNOWLES, Deputy District Registrar, Laun-
ceston Registry.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES— In Divorce.
TO NX20017 SERGEANT TED E. NEVILLE
27th Aust. Infantry Battalion Australia. —TAKE
NOTICE that TERENCE CHARLES WIL-
LOUGHBY has filed a Petition for Divorce
(No. 2260 of 1943) from his wife GWENDO-
LINE EDITH JOYCE WILLOUGHBY on the
grounds of her adultery with you If you
wish to defend you may enter an appearance at
the Divorce Office Supreme Court King Street
Sydney by the Twenty-fourth January 1944 and
obtain a copy of the petition without charge
from N. C. ROWLES Solicitor 92 Pitt Street
Sydney— (l.s.) C. K. BODY, Registrar in
Divorce.
IN
THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES— In Divorce.
TO MARGARET ELLEN DIXON formerly of
Potts Point and Cremorne. —TAKE NOTICE
that JAMES WALTER BUCHANAN DIXON
has commenced a suit against you and is seek-
ing a dissolution of marriage (No. 2130 of 1943)
on the ground of desertion for three years and
upwards AND TAKE NOTICE that you are
required to enter an appearance at the Divorce
Office Supreme Court King Street Sydney on
or before the Ist day of November 1943 A
copy of the petition may be obtained from
CLIVE CLARKE Solicitor for the Petitioner 79
Elizabeth Street Sydney. — (1.5.) C. K. BODY,
Registrar in Divorce.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES— In Divorce.
TO JOHN BELL MACQUARIE COLE late
of Peak HiII.—TAKE NOTICE that ANORAH
PERCELLA COLE has commenced a suit
against you (No. 2238 of 1943) and is seeking a
dissolution of marriage on the ground of de-
sertion for three years and upwards AND
TAKE NOTICE that jou are required to enter
an appearance at the Divorce Office Supreme
Court King Street Sydney on or before the Ist
day of November 1943 A copy of the petition
may be obtained from CLIVE CLARKE Solici-
tor for the Petitioner 79 Elizabeth Street Sydney.
—(l.s.) C. K. BODY, Registrar in Divorce.
m
am
grip of the methodically pursuing foes
from their throats.
The Neapolitan plain was being heavily
bombarded. For the enemy the battle
had become a huge delaying action cover-
ing the evacuation of armies and equip-
ment to the northern Italian defence
lines. The southern end of Italy was so
safely in Allied hands that King Victor
and Marshal Badoglio had re-established
the Italian Government on the mainland.
The casualties of the early fighting
for the Salerno bridgehead had proved
less than expected. The U.S. War De-
partment has announced that American
killed, wounded and missing to Sept. 15
numbered only 3497. Unofficial sources
declared that in the first 16 days of fight-
ing 2000 enemy prisoners were taken.
Corsica and the /Egean
Outside the main battle area there was
much less-advertised activity. General
Giraud’s drive against the Germans in
Corsica, carrying out plans long laid in-
side and outside the island, had forced
the Germans to the far north of the
island and, with the help of landed U.S.
Rangers, had taken Bastia. Under con-
tinuous bombing the Germans, who had
resisted in fierce local clashes, were hav-
ing difficulty in evacuating the remains
of their troops. The French were on the
last lap of their way to France, separated
by a strip of water only as wide as that
between Malta and Catania. Toulon and
Marseilles were within comfortable light-
bomber range. Leghorn and the north
Italian west coast were even more acces-
sible. The Brenner Pass is only 350 miles
from northern Corsica, Trieste under 300
miles, Milan about 220 miles.
On the other side of Italy Yugo-
slavs, under Allied officers and with
Allied supplies, had begun large-scale
operations in which they claimed to have
captured most of the Dalmatian coast
and to be storming Trieste and cutting
railway lines.
And across the mouth of the eastern
Aigean the British Navy had landed
parties on all the Dodecanese islands
except the largest, Rhodes, which was
thus isolated. Crete’s communications
had a row of foes on their eastern flank.
On Patmos the British occupiers were
only 140 miles from the Greek mainland
and less than 300 miles from Salonika.
Greece soon will be for its whole
length and breadth between two lines of
bomber fire from aerodromes less than
14 hours from the most distant points.
From Patmos even the Bulgarian border
is only 250 miles away, and Bucharest as
close as Rabaul is to Moresby.
Heavy Bombing.
With the return of a suitable moon
bombing attacks on Europe flared up
again in what was described as probably
the most intense 54 hours’ bombing of
the war. In that period 4000 tons of
bombs were dropped, largely in vast
raids on the Ludwigshafen-Mannheim
port and industrial area and Hanover.
The defence was desperate, and loss of
bombers in the attacks heavy—58.
On a strip from Western France to
Northern Germany more than 20 large
targets were attacked. Paris Radio de-
clared that three attacks on Nantes had
killed 1000 people, injured 13,000 and
destroyed 14,000 houses.
Thousands of night and day sorties
were made by British, American and Aus-
tralian and other Dominion heavy and
medium bombers and fighters. At least
58 German fighters were shot down —21
on Friday, September 24 —and huge
damage was done to communications and
airfields. Apart from the R.A.F.’s
bomber losses over Germany the Allied
toll was only three Fortresses and 17
Allied fighters.
The Bitter Road Back.
“Ek Dum”: Sunday was the third anni-
versary of the Luftwaffe’s final defeat in
the Battle of Britain. Tomorrow is an-
other day which Hitler is unlikely to cele-
brate. On September 30, 1942, he de-
livered his last full-dress speech in Berlin.
His armies were then on the Volga at
Stalingrad, and in the Caucasus. He
boasted of the exclusion from Russian
use of the Don and the Volga and
Dnieper as traffic arteries—which means
for Russia “the same as or even worse
than if we in Germany should lose the
Rhine, the Elbe, the Oder and the
Danube.” He boasted that “no human
being would ever push the Germans away
from Stalingrad,” and bragged of the
area of Russia under his heel: —
We must set ourselves the tasks of
organising this enormous space. We are
not interested in telling how many kilo-
metres our armies have marched. We are
mainly interested in obtaining this great
space for the purpose of rendering it
usable for our warfare, and in the same
sense to link it with the nutrition of our
people and with the obtaining of raw
materials, all for the maintenance of all
Europe.
“I believe,” he proceeded, that Provi-
dence is satisfied with the German
people,” but not with the idiots,
“drunkards” and “loud-mouths who
were running the Allied side of the war
—enemies whom he “threw out of the
Balkans, pitched contemptuously out of
Greece, deprived of Crete and [sic]
drove out of North Africa.”
The only accomplishment he conceded
to the British was that “they have built
a railway from Egypt to Tobruk which
is now of unusual use to us.”
El Alamein Starts the Rot
Three weeks later the advance of the
Eighth Army at Alamein (23 /10/’42)
marked the beginning of anew era.
Rommel was racing westward. For-
tuitous rain saved him from total de-
struction before he reached Benghazi.
On November 9 the Allied landing m
Morocco and Algeria advertised that the
Allies had at last succeeded in obtaining
what they most needed —a spacious base
in which to deploy armies, with organised
ports, abundant local labor and compara-
tively safe ingress routes.
The next day things began to happen
in Russia, and three days afterwards it
was announced that 42 German divisions
had been withdrawn from the Russian
front to thtt Balkans. This the Russians
denied, though there proved plenty of
excuse for withdrawals, since the Ger-
mans now had to occupy France and
seriously begin to establish anew 3000-
mile defence line on a grand scale along
the Mediterranean.
Ten days later the Russian offensive
began at Stalingrad. In the months that
ensued the Germans fell back almost to
the Dnieper. Subsequently they took the
offensive, both in the south, where they
regained Kharkov, and in other parts
which they had fallen back, as well as m
the centre, where they had given up Rshev
and Viazma. But all that they regained
then they have lost, and a great deal more.
Retreat Moves Fast
The German retreat continues to move
so fast along the Dnieper that its pace
is inconsistent with any heavy fighting,
save at key points. But newspapers which
hailed Montgomery’s unresisted drive
from Reggio to Salerno with the Eighth
Army at the rate of 17 miles a day as “a
record” believe that the Russians are pro-
gressing in fierce large-scale battles any-
thing from five to 15 miles in a day, at
the same time, as one Sydney journal
put it, “reoccupying inhabited localities
at the rate of 40 an hour.”
The German policy in the retreat has
been to hold two or more strong com-
munication and railway points inviolate
with a strong screen forcing the Rus-
sians to concentrate on them. In the
meantime the enemy slips away between
them. Then, while his screen still holds,
he evacuates the strong holding points,
announces the fact and eases back, his
screen fighting strongly as a rearguard.
He followed this policy at Orel, Tagan-
rog, Stalino, Bryansk, Kharkov and,
lastly, Poltava until the Dnieper was
reached and the Red Army was within
a dozen miles or so of Smolensk on the
north and Melitopol in the extreme south.
Back to the Dnieper
He has now fallen back beyond
Roslavl to the Dnieper, which formed
his frontal line Up to the middle of last
week, the western bank at all, crucial
points being under Russian long-distance
artillery fire.
Smolensk and much of the line north
of it were abandoned with no more re-
sistance than was offered at small south-
ern bases before they were actually at-
tacked in force. And on Sept. 26 the
Russians were assaulting Kiev, whose fall
seemed imminent.
It looks as if the enemy line must fall
back at least to the Dniester, with the
evacuation of the Crimea. Berlin an-
nounced late in the week that evacuation
of the Kuban had begun. It is not even
beyond the bounds of possibility that
Hitler’s retreat might take him to the
Danube, where he would have a chance
of developing a two-front defence against
Russia and against invasion from the
Mediterranean, with hope in his heart
that the Russians might be tempted to
leave the war after their territory was
recovered.
A N.Y. “Herald Tribune” Washington
correspondent wrote on Sept. 25:
One problem, it is believed, arises from
moves by Japan to effect a separate Russo-
German peace. The Japanese, it is under-
stood, told the Russians that the Germans
were deliberately falling back to the
Dnieper, and that they would there for-
mally offer peace on the theory that they
can withstand the Anglo-American blows
if the Russians are out of the picture.
Some British commentators— notably
General Fuller—are thinking on the same
lines. ,
Berlin Radio on Sept. 26 hinted that it
was proposed to attempt to return to
trench warfare.
The Dniester-Gomel Line
The Dniester line, after following the
river from the region of Odessa, runs
almost straight to Leningrad,
Berdichev, Zitomir, Gomel, Mogilev, east
of Minsk, which—not Smolensk—is the
main central German base in Russia,
thence to Orsha and Vitebsk. Perhaps the
northern half might be withdrawn even
to the Dvina and Riga.
Occupation of it would represent an
immense shortening of the enemy front
and immense relief to his divisions.
From Leningrad to Orjonikidze in the
Caucasus last November, the German
front was roughly 2600 miles long and
covered by 225 divisions. The Odessa-
Gomel-Leningrad line is only 990 miles
overall. To hold it with the same per-
mile divisional backing as the offensive
line of November last would call for
only 103 divisions, and the shortening of
rear lines would probably save the enemy
2,000,000 to 3,000,000 ancillaries, huge
quantities of fuel and rubber and enor-
mous wear and tear on rolling stock,
while greatly adding to Russian com-
munication burdens.
Gorilla at Bay
The main fact, however, is that Hitler’s
present policy is an absolute abandon-
ment of his aims as stated on Sept. 30
last year. It represents an abandon-
ment of his conqueror complex, for con-
querors do not “shorten lines.”
It represents movements which have
taken place in two stages, each stage
following a major move by the
British-American allies. The first retreat
from the Volga came immediately
on top of El Alamein and the north-west
African landings ; the second retreat, to
the Dnieper, began with the abandonment
of an offensive in the Kharkov-Orel area,
and followed immediately on the Allied
landing in Sicily and the British-
Americans’ demonstration that they had
—at any rate for the present —defeated
the U-boat campaign and secured air
supremacy on the west.
The enemy now has his back to the
wall. The police are closing in on him.
But airy optimism to the effect that he
has been bled completely white in Russia,
that he is anywhere retiring in disorder,
that he is tired out, is gravely misplaced.
He is as dangerous as any other cor-
nered gorilla.
The Allied press outlook needs to sober
itself up. There will be some bad maul-
ings, perhaps some sad failures and mis-
takes, before the bloody years of 1943-44
are over. Victory, though it now seems
sure, will not be bought cheaply either in
Europe or the Pacific.
On the Brink.
“Ek Dum”: Coming events, large and
bloody, cast their shadows before on all
the battlefronts, as shown by the state-
ments of various war leaders.
Mr. Bevin, the British Minister for
Labor, told the Commons that a gigantic
struggle would have to be faced in 1944
in which every provision would have to
be made for heavy casualties when Ger-
many was attacked in Western Europe.
On the military side. General Marshall
declared that the Allies were ready to
open big offensives in Italy, Burma and
China. He said that in Burma and
China the Allies were “getting into posi-
tion to carry on heavy fighting against
the Japanese.”
These statements followed a speech to
the Commons in which Mr. Churchill
summed up the war situation:
The Allies had complete air supremacy
over Germany in the ratio of four machines
to one.
Although a convoy was under attack as
he spoke—the Germans afterwards claimed
to have destroyed 40,000 tons of ships—
no ships had been sunk by U-boats any-
where in the world in the first 14 days of
September, and no merchant ship in the
North Atlantic in four months ended Sep-
tember 18.
Naval and air dominance over Japan had
been established in the Pacific. Admiral
Louis Mountbatten would set up his H.Q.
in New Delhi with an Anglo-American staff.
The Mediterranean front was “a third
front” and its “case was pretty watertight.”
A second front existed potentially. He was
not going to hint when this front would
be engaged, but it existed and was already
the main preoccupation of the enemy.
The P.M. salted his remarks with a
scathing attack on British Communists,
wljo during the week raided Downing-
street, some apparently waving copies of
a cable sent by 26 “Australian trade-
union leaders” —the familiar demand for
the immediate opening of a second front
in Western Europe from Thornton, Healy,
Elliott, Thompson and the rest, Mr.
Churchill said that if he wanted advice
about a second front he would take it
not from such people but from friends
and allies, and would not be forced or
cajoled against his better judgment or
against military advice.
Little time is now available for the
opening of an attack on north-western
or south-western Europe. If and when it
is made, operations in western Europe
will be on such a scale as will dwarf all
other operations. To land and estab-
lish such a force as will be needed even
to hold its own on shore during the
winter will call for huge and probably
many bridgeheads, which as likely as not
will reach to the far west of France and
the Bay of Biscay region, where there are
many suitable landing points.
The Germans claim to have transferred
30,000 Allied prisoners from Italy to Germany
and to have another 15,000 to 20,000 awaiting
transfer. Several thousand British prisoners re-
leased by the Italians are said to be fighting
their way to the south. There were believed
to be about 2000 Australians in Italian prison
camps.
* * * *
Australia is represented in the Salerno battle
by an R.A.A.F. squadron and some specialists.
* * * *
Britain is handing Canada .six destroyers this
year, two cruisers next year and possibly some
carriers. The R.C.N. has played a big part in
the defence of North Atlantic routes.


■■• >■ ': ,;
> : . ; : x : ; ; x-:':- : O.V
m
w
: ; : ;;pi|;
x'x: : . :
v: ; >: : x;
fig
wm
w.
ms&
y\ :S V :
'
: :
AUSTRALIAN JOCKEY CLUB
SPRING MEETING 1943
To be held at
RANDWICK RACECOURSE
OCTOBER 9, 16, 23, 1943.
FIRST DAY, OCTOBER 9, 1943.
THE BREEDERS’ PLATE, of £l3OO, FIVE FURLONGS.
THE CRAVEN PLATE, of £l3OO, ONE MILE AND A QUARTER.
SECOND DAY, OCTOBER 16, 1943.
THE AJ.C. DERBY, of £5OOO, ONE MILE AND A HALF.
THE EPSOM HANDICAP, of £2500, ONE MILE.
THIRD DAY, OCTOBER 23, 1943.
THE METROPOLITAN, of £4OOO, ONE MILE AND FIVE
6 Bligh Street, SYDNEY.
FURLONGS.
GEO. T. ROWE, Secretary.
SPORTING NOTIONS
(Conducted by "PILOT")
Hawkesbury R.C. gave £3150 in prize-
money at its meeting on Saturday, and,
with the attendance 25,000, received a
satisfactory return. The tote turnover
was £54,735.
When Yaralla and Hall Stand were
well clear of their followers after going
three furlongs they looked like making a
match of the Quality Handicap. Hall
Stand, however, was beaten immediately
the straight was entered, and Yaralla was
unequal to stalling off Modulation
(Bartle), who was never further back than
third. When Yaralla dropped out Prince
came on, but was unable to trouble
Modulation, whose price was the remark-
able one of 10 to I, much more than was
on offer about him for the Epsom. Fer-
managh beat Yaralla for third, and of
the remainder Gold Salute was doing
better than any at the winning-post.
Winnipeg was never a possibility, nor
was Triad.
Chatham’s Choice and Haripur did the
early pacemaking in the Hawkesbury
Grand Handicap, It’s Funny joining them
before reaching the turn. Then Goose
Boy (Shean) moved up on the outside,
and had the race won a furlong from
home. Lambeth finished strongly to run
It’s Funny to a half-head for second, and
Moondarewa, though unfancied, was a
good fourth, while the only thing favor-
able that can be said of Veiled Threat is
that he made up ground in the straight.
Main Topic, after being in a handy posi-
tion for nearly nine furlongs, failed badly
in the run home. No excuse was pos-
sible. .
In the Novice Handicap Chinook
(Shean) ran up to his track reputation.
Last Bowl was with him to the turn,
where Royal Result looked as if he might
be troublesome, but Chinook had no dif-
ficulty in holding him off. Farewell, a
daughter of Cheveley Lad and brilliant
Valicare, was third, and Camacho and
Wee Laddie were the only others reason-
ably close to the place-getters. Chinook,
who is in the same ownership as War
Eagle, is a three-year-old by Manitoba
from Train Bleu, by Devizes.
Tennessee, though a 5-to-2 favorite for
the Three-year-old Handicap, could only
get third. Joygiver, Craigie and High-
gate were the early leaders. Craigie ran
off when in charge at the straight en-
trance, and Highgate (Hanley) won in
easy fashion from Royal Peer and Ten-
nessee. Code and Scene were next, the
latter making up a Idt of ground from
the turn. Highgate gave a deal of promise
at his first two runs last season, but this
was his first win. Costing 140gns. as a
yearling, he is by Piccadilly from Chancel,
dam of Christopher Milne.
On his previous week’s form Gryphon
(Munro) read like the winner of the Trial
Stakes. Starting at a shade of odds on
he won as he pleased from Sponsor, who
led to the straight entrance. It was a
poor field, but the time, was fair
for this class. Sandfire was third, and
March By, who is not as good as he
looks, headed the unplaced lot.
Tahmoor showed all the pace expected
in the first division of the Welter Han-
dicap, He was first into the straight, but
High Flight and Marcondis (Freedman)
had him beaten when he was squeezed
between them commencing the last fur-
long, and the last-named, outstaying High
Flight, won by half a neck. Silverelda cut
Tahmoor out of third money in the last
50 yards, and Baroda, who should win
before long, was next. A protest on
High Flight’s behalf was very properly
dismissed. McMenamin (High Flight)
and Freedman (Marcondis) were respec-
tively suspended for two months and one
month for interfering with Tahmoor.
In an exciting finish Cadger (J. O’Sul-
livan) lasted long enough to win the
second division of the Welter from Ron
Rico, who was giving him a long start at
thte top of the straight. Brughelier was a
good third, and then Edigram and My
Friend, the last-named doing well over
the last furlong. Hauteur tired badly
after leading to the home turn, and
Omapo’s dash of the previous week was
completely missing. The time was 1.26},
against Marcondis’s 1.24| in the first divi-
sion—a remarkable difference.
* * * *
Precept became nominal favorite for
the Victoria Derby and outright favorite
for the Melbourne Cup following his de-
cisive defeat of Night Link and St.
Fairy in the Moonee Valley Stakes, a
mile set-weight race for three-year-olds,
on Saturday. Last at the end of a fur-
long, and in trouble about two furlongs
from home, he received a rails run in
the straight and won running away. He
had been backed the previous day for
the Melbourne Cup, and would have
started less than 5 to 1 on Saturday but
for a spectacular plunge on Night Link.
Latter was outstayed, but may be hard
to beat in the Oaks and other races for
fillies. Lawrence finished well in fourth
position, but David’s Last tired at the
business end.
Breeding favors Precept as a stayer.
He is by Peter Pan (winner of two Mel-
bourne Cups) from Yetna, by Heroic
from Lineage (Oaks winner), by Spear-
head. In addition, he looks the part,
and his trainer, J. Pengilly, considers him
a much better horse at Flemington than
at the smaller Moonee Valley track. His
next race will be at w.f.a., followed by
the Caulfield Guineas. Precept will be
ridden in all his spring engagements by
E. Preston, who won the 1939 Cups
double on Rivette.
Haros defeated Spearmain, Keplerian
and several other Cups candidates in im-
pressive style in the first Quality Handi-
cap. He was galloped on during the
race, however, and at the time of writing
it was indefinite whether the cuts he re-
ceived would affect his Caulfield Cup
preparation. Fairway Freddy, owned in
Westralia, improved considerably on his
Flemington form to defeat Dominate and
Brother Bill in the second Quality Han-
dicap. If he runs in the Caulfield Cup
he will be ridden again by A. Cooper,
who landed a double on Saturday. From
a Cup viewpoint, however, Fairway
Freddy was less impressive than Domi-
nate. Latter, racing in Australia for the
second time, finished strongly, and evi-
dently is about to live up to his best
Maoriland form. True Flight, favorite,
lost his chance at the start, but Wallace
James, Illyrian and Damalis disap-
pointed.
* * * *
As there will be only one more day’s
racing in Sydney before the 16th of next
month, it is improbable Modulation’s
effort in last week’s Quality Handicap
will be eclipsed by any other Epsom can-
didate. Modulation made brilliant gal-
lopers in Yaralla and Hall Stand look
cheap, and ran the seven furlongs in the
record time for Rosehill of 1.24. Prince
made a good showing, and, though he
was unable to trouble Modulation seri-
ously, it must be said for him that, after
commencing indifferently, he was much
nearer the latter at the finish than at the
top of the straight. Therefore he still
enters into calculations, notwithstanding
he was beaten by more than the 21b.
better terms on which he will meet Modu-
lation.
Fermanagh, in third place, ran well,
but does not look like turning the tables
on Modulation and Prince. Of the un-
placed lot Gold Salute made the most
promising display. Triad, Hall Stand,
Dewar, Winnipeg and Kiaree doing
nothing suggestive of Epsom honors. Of
runners in other races it is said that
Chinook’s decisive win in the Novice
Handicap may have gained him an Epsom
start, but there is a wide margin in form
between the two races. Last week’s com-
petitors did not include some that have
received mention for the Epsom, but
even those of us previously disposed to
think Modulation had enough weight to
put success in the Epsom beyond him
have had to modify that idea. Rimveil,
Kingsdale, Freckles, Panchio and Magi,
who were absentees last week, may still
have to be reckoned with, while Lord
Neith, though beaten, ran really well with
9.8 in a mile race at Newcastle, but
Modulation’s favoritism for the Epsom
is assured.
Goose Boy’s Hawkesbury Handicap
win made it certain that he will be seen
at his best in the Metropolitan, in which,
with 8.2, he will meet Grand Fils 21b.
worse than when the latter beat him a
half-head last year. Unless the additional
two furlongs, compared with last week,
greatly helps them, it will be difficult for
Veiled Threat or Abspear to beat Goose
Boy, -and Saturday’s form did not say a
great deal for It’s Funny’s or Main
Topic’s prospects of doing so. Moon-
darewa may have a better chance than
either. As it was his first run for some
time his fourth with his Metropolitan
weight was promising. He had 7.12
when third in the last Sydney Cup.
Lambeth’s third to Goose Boy and It’s
Funny pointed to his being in good trim
for the Metropolitan, and he has only
31b. more than when second to Amber-
spear in the Summer Cup at the same
distance. He is a winner at a mile and a
quarter at Randwick.
* * * *
Three-year-olds engaged in the Craven
Plate on the opening day of the A.J.C.
meeting are Moorland, Falcon Knight,
Tribal, Flight and War Eagle. They are
also in the Clibborn Stakes the same
afternoon, as is Mayfowl,
* * * «
In view of the heavy wagering cus-
tomary on Sydney racecourses nowadays
one cannot help thinking what a large
revenue the Government would receive
and what great prizes race clubs would
be able to give if all betting were confined
to the tote. However, the books have
nothing to fear'. In addition to political
support in opposition to anything likely
to be detrimental to their interests, the
difficulty of the tote coping with the big
business makes their position secure for
a long time to come.
* * * «
T. J. Haylen, well-known and respected
Rosehill trainer, died on Sunday. He
prepared many winners.
* * * *
If track work could always be relied
on as a guide the A.J.C. Derby is far
from over, despite Moorland’s decisive
Rosehill Guineas win. He has gone on
well since then, as have Mayfowl and
War Eagle. Some horses race much
better on the track on which they are
trained than any other, and War Eagle
may find Randwick more to his liking
than Rosehill,
* * * *
With the A.J.C. meeting at hand the
announcement by the Minister for the
Army that jockeys on leave would not be
debarred from following their calling
must have been gratifying to those most
concerned. A fee for a win in a Derby,
Epsom or Metropolitan gives a much
greater monetary return for a short ride
than for a long period of soldiering. To
say nothing of the possibility of a
present, this year’s A.J.C. Derby fee will
be about £2OO. Racegoers will also be
pleased that they will be able to put
their money on capable jockeys. A good
horse and an indifferent rider make an
unsatisfactory combination.
Miscellaneous
Richmond v. Essendon for the
V.F.L. premiership was a grand match.
Showing early superiority in marking,
the Tigers snapped three goals to nil in
the first five minutes. The ’Dons came
back and, by dint of torrid ruck work,
wiped out the deficiency and had a five-
points lead at the final changeover. The
last quarter was thrilling. Essendon
strove mightily, but the Tigers proved too
good, and at the end had 12.14 to 11.15.
Richmond’s sharpshooter, Harris, kicked
seven goals to make his total 63—the best
for the season.
* * * *
Though the best of an indifferent lot
of middle weights, Jack McNamee is a
boxer of moods. He was given the deci-
sion over A 1 Walker at Leichhardt at the
end of 12 dreary rounds, but Walker had
done most of the work, such as there was.
As usual, the customers noisily objected
to the verdict.
Encouraged by a previous knockout
victory, Tommy Johns gave Les Fitz-
gerald a nasty time at the Sydney
Stadium. It was nearly over in the
first round; after rocking Fitzgerald
with a right Johns floored him
for “eight” with a left. A right
to the chin had Fitz down again
for “eight” in the sixth; and as the
seventh began a left downstairs dropped
him once more. Before a count could
be commenced, Fitzgerald intimated that
his right ankle had been badly wrenched
and that he could not continue.


Women's Letters
From Melbourne
Very lucky ladies will have tulips on
their tables this week (like the early daffo-
dils they began their reign at 3d. a head),
and the people who are always well ahead
of schedule are already saying “I’m
putting a few things away in preparation
for Christmas.” So the end of the year
and the coming of warm weather cast
their shadows before. This summer there
won’t be a rush for new swimsuits, for
such are unobtainable, and the clock of
fashion must stand still. Now that Mr.
Dedman has made us say good-bye to all
that the beach belle has to darn the moth
holes in the old suit or rig up something
hair-raisingly unfitting out of cotton-by-
the-yard.
Meat rationing being in the air, “Will
Fido get coupons?” is being widely de-
bated in this dog-loving city. The answer,
it is generally agreed, is “Not a hope, so
we’ll have to give him some of ours if
meat rationing really does come in.”
Butchers in the more “doggy” suburbs
(Brunswick and Brighton head the list, by
the way) have been very touchy on the
subject of dog food for months past, and
most of ’em won’t sell left-overs for the
purpose any more. Those who number
Thomas Catte as a member of the house-
hold are also worried About rationing pro-
posals, for puss is a great trencherman.
A ray of hope for the dog-and-cat-in-
clined is comprised in the argument that
it was found in Britain that the creatures
gave a good return for their food in
keeping down rats.
A bright thought for introducing both
variety and quality into gift-shop stocks
is the plan of the committee of the All-
in Branch of the A.C.F, A prize of five
guineas has been offered for the donor
of the most attractive and artistic gift to
the shop. All gifts competing will be sold
for A.C.F. funds when the shop
opens early in November. “All-in
Branch” is something of a misnomer, as
the workers are only 12 to 15 in number.
Even so, they have managed to raise well
over £2OOO since getting together. Latest
effort was £5OO for a raffle after only
ten weeks of pushing it in city spots.
When presenting the cheque to the
Mayoral lady president Mrs. Leonard
Newstead expressed hopes that double
that amount would be raised by the
November shop.
Miss A. A. Bill, Women’s Hospital
Auxiliary organiser, will have seen
enough eggs by the end of October to
give her a prejudice against hens for a
long time to come. The hospital’s egg
appeal will be in full swing next month,
and, as usual, it is hoped to beat past
performances—the tally has been some-
where around 57,000 eggs in most years.
Municipal councils and State schools are
usually the chief contributors, but eggs
by the dozen or just one or two will be
welcomed from anyone at the Women’s
Hospital.
Articles of every size and description
are grist to the mill of supporters of the
Brotherhood of St. Lawrence, who can
sell almost anything in their shop at 52
Royal Arcade, which is also a centre for
publicising the Brotherhood’s scheme for
qutlawing slums and all that goes with
them. For October a cactus-garden
competition is planned. Competitors
naust buy the wherewithals at the shop
and then try for the substantial prizes
which go to the creator of the most
attractive garden. Among the plants
presented to the shop is a cactus that can
be used as decoration, weapon or rolling-
pin. The Brotherhood is endeavoring to
bring the reality of slum conditions De-
fore the public mind by constant propa-
ganda, and does not pull its punches
against those (including the present Lud
Mayor) who talk of “beautiful Mel-
bourne.”
Appeal secretary Emerald Goetze
knows just how much ink and how many
reams of paper it takes to appeal for the
|awbees for Lord Mayoral funds. She
doesn’t even have the breather most
organisers have between bouts, as Town
Hall fund-hunting is a continuous pro-
cess. While the behind-the-scenes work
bf the Red Cross Junior appeal is being
wound up and baby sponsors are being
besought to take the photograph of the
little darling home again, the Hospital
Appeal and the Centaur Nurses’
Memorial Fund are in full swing. The
|ormer calls for the mailing of 100,000
Setters to possible givers, as the Lord
'Mayor wants to beat last year’s record
;of £75,000.
The Centaur Nurses’ Memorial Fund
is breaking new ground in its object,
which is to finance a post-training course
(with diploma) for eligible nurses. This
will be the start of a scheme similar to
that working in the U.S.A., where out-
standing trainee nurses become tutors and
specialise in teaching. The tutor nurses
of the U.S. services who have been posted
to these parts have impressed all who
met them, and there’s no doubt that the
idea adds greatly to the dignity of the
profession. As a start the organisers
plan for a scholarship for perhaps one
girl every two years, but plans will grow
with funds.
A celebration in each hemisphere will
mark the occasion of Bonnie Smithers’s
early-morning wedding at St. Paul’s
Cathedral to Sgt. Basil Walters, R.A.F.,
on October 13, as the bridegroom’s
family in England will be getting together
at the same time to toast the bride’s
health. A full complement of brides-
maids, all of them old P.L.C. school-
friends of the bride, will be arrayed in
blue slipper satin and carry red roses,
which are being bespoken from a Heales-
ville garden especially for the day —
they’re as rare as phoenixes in city en-
virons. Sgt. Walters is on loan to the
R.A.A.F. after seeing service in the great
days of the Battle of Britain and in
Singapore. Dean Langley will be the
knot-tyer.
When the subject of bridal doings
comes up in feminine circles it is often
asked why St. Paul’s Cathedral is so
rarely the chosen spot. The answer
apparently is that the cathedral authori-
ties prefer that when the merry maiden
marries she should hie herself to her
parish church. Weddings mean consider-
able tidying up afterwards, and cathedral
weddings almost inevitably mean crowds
imbued by no very devotional spirit.
However, there’s no fixed rule on the
subject.
A pale-blue dinner-gown with match-
ing floral toque made a becomingly out-
of-the-ordinary bridal array for Joan
Rowe, who became Mrs. Howat McLean
at Toorak kirk on Saturday. Joan, a
daughter of the R. H. M. Rowes of
this city, has been doing a war job for
many months. Before the call to national
service caught her she had some experi-
ence as a mannequin and was no mean
golfer. Bridegroom Howat Carrington
McLean, youngest son of the late Mr. and
Mrs. A. McLean, is a well-known wool-
buyer. Brother Dr. Kenneth McLean was
best man. Adamson made this portrait
of Joan.
“King Olaf,” Elgar’s choral work per-
formed in the Town Hall on Saturday,
wasn’t new to this city’s musical, as it
was heard here in 1941. Conductor
(which means in this case organiser and
major-domo, as the performance was very
much the result of his own enthusiasm)
was again Herbert Davis. He believes in
giving English works an airing rather
than the old favorite oratorios, now
somewhat hackneyed. In spite of this
he is still claimed by his admirers to be
the foremost Handel interpreter this side
of the Equator. Also he has wielded the
baton for “Elijah” many times. He’s
organist at Scots Church, trains several
choral groups and has the Zelman
Memorial Orchestra under his wing.
Berthe Jorgensen is leader of this
orchestra, and was in her place on Satur-
day, as the affair didn’t clash with
A.B.C. orchestral activities.
Clyde Old Girls are not going to give
their customary dramatic show this year.
Plans are afoot for a dance to be held
on Cup eve instead, and the possibility of
making it a dinner-dance affair is being
discussed. The spot for the jollities
hasn’t yet been decided on, but it’s to be
a get-at-able one. The Free Kinder-
garten Union will share the profits with
Red Cross, as the organisers have a lot
of interest in furthering the free kinder-
garten cause.
From Sydney
The fair at the Y.W.C.A. raged the
round of the clock last Friday. First
swing of the pendulum was at eleven.
At half-past twelve Lady Wakehurst
opened the doings, and then stayed on to
lunch. The American Women’s Circle
arranged a special American menu for
the Governor’s wife and some of the
Appeal Committee. The money made at
the fair went to the fund being collected
(£5OOO is the target) for the Y.W. day-to-
day expenditure. There was a great run
on the dressed poultry, vegetables and
home-made cakes. At eleven o’clock pre-
cisely came the first client for doughnuts.
Eleven o’clock in the evening found
dancing at its blithest and hot dogs,
coffee and biscuits still being served by
the Little Theatre Group. Jane Bernays
was the organiser.
Evelyn Penrose is a member of the
British Society of Dowsers, and, as those
interested in water-finding all over the
world know, that means she is a diviner.
In this Cornishwoman’s case her powers
were inherited from her father and grand-
mother. In France before the war there
was a Society of Students of Radio-
Perception. Its members numbered be-
tween two and three thousand, and in-
cluded physicists, geologists, engineers,
medicoes and other scientists. It is
said that Germany had some hundreds
of diviners behind the Siegfried Line. The
modern diviner has to be accurate. When
divining for water he has to be at least
within one inch of the spot. Water divin-
ing is not the oldest form. Minerals were
discovered by this ancient cull, it is
claimed, a hundred years before anyone
thought of using it to find water.
Miss Penrose does a great deal of her
work with her bare hands and no tools.
When she uses anything it is a small steel
gadget or a wooden pendulum like a
plumb-bob on a string. She has worked
as a diviner for the Government in British
Columbia, Canada. She returned to Eng-
land for the big meeting of the British
Society of Dowsers, and followed up by
being one of 500 delegates at an inter-
national meeting in France. Miss Pen-
rose is convinced there are still large
mineral deposits untouched in S.A.,
where she has done prospecting. The
photograph is by Elliott and Fry, London.
At St. Martha’s Church, Strathfield, on
Saturday pretty Eleanor, elder daughter
of the P. R. Hills of that garden suburb,
will become the wife*of Dr. John O’Hara,
only son of the E. O’Hara couple, also
of Strathfield. Bride’s sister Margaret,
’groom’s sister Maureen and Dawn Fuller
are to be the bridesmaids. Eleanor
(father is secretary of Anthony Hordern
and Sons), before becoming a Voluntary
Aid, was a helper for love at Royal
Prince Alfred Hospital for Children. Dr.
John O’Hara is senior resident at Royal
South Sydney Hospital, and is awaiting
a call-up for the R.A.A.F.
Bulletin war-cartoonists make good
showing on the walls of the Historical
Society’s gallery. Sir Hugh Poynter
opened the display midway through last
week, stressing the points of good
draughtsmanship and thoughtful design,
which he, as a son of a very famous artist,
had been brought up to recognise. Presi-
dent Alfred Stephen introduced Sir Hugh,
though indeed he needs no introduction
to art enthusiasts. In all, there are about
100 cartoons; and it was interesting to
see how the different subjects reacted on
different imaginations. Blitzkrieg on
the Babies” and the “Murmansk Front”
(two British sailors struggling in icy seas)
drew the murmur of appreciation. So
did Ted Scorfield’s “The Twist That Did
It.”
Admiral Feakes and Mrs. Feakes, who
had lunched at the Army Club, came on
to the opening. The Admiral reminisced
about his first glimpse of Sydney. That
was 50 years ago. He had come in a
sailing vessel, and he was one of the
striplings of the captain’s gig. M.L.A. for
Croydon Hunter was there with sister
and his mother. Former Mitchell
librarian Wright and his wife were among
the gazers. It was a pleasant afternoon
rounded off by tea, President Alfred
Stephen proving a thoughtful host. His-
torical Society’s secretary Price Conigrave
was an able lieutenant.
A band to make itself heard is the
U.S. Navy one, which last week decanted
swing and rhythm, hot and smooth, in
Grace Brothers’ Auditorium for two
nights. The dances the bandsmen played
for were entertainment for Allied service
men. This band has quite a history. It
was graduated from the U.S. Navy
School of Music, Washington, D.C., in
November, 1940. It was sent to the
Pacific Fleet, then stationed at Pearl Har-
bor, and remained there till the Japanese
attack in December, 1941. This is one
of the few U.S. bands in the South
Pacific. To play as often as the service
men want to hear them, the bandsmen
have given up nearly all their recreation
and liberty time to cram in more re-
hearsals and jobs. All their life isn’t
music. They take their turn in helping
load ship with stores and ammunition.
At battle stations bandsmen * act as
stretcher-bearers.
A wedding of inter-State interest was
that of Virginia, only child of the Clif-
ford Deeleys, of Yultewirra, Stirling
South (S.A.), and Captain Brian (Dick)
de Meyrick, second son of Colonel and
Mrs. de Meyrick, of Miawarra, Casula.
Dick is the third generation of De Mey-
ricks to serve in the Australian forces.
His elder brother was killed fighting in
Greece in April, ; a younger brother
is a cadet-lieutenant at Riverview, and will
be joining the Army early next year. The
De Meyricks have a link with the U.S.A.
in ancestor William Penn, father of the
Quaker Penn who founded Philadelphia.
The Hunter-White old home at Double
Bay is the right setting for an art exhi-
bition. The house, St. Brigid’s, overlooks
the Redleaf beach (which is becom-
ing almost a little Lido these days),
and the billiard-room, where the pictures
will be shown, was at one time part of
the - stables of that old bush home. St.
Brigid’s is one of those houses that have a
covered way from entrance to pavement,
and is set in bright flowering gardens.
Among treasures in the show even now
being eagerly bought are Hans Heysens,
Blamire Youngs and some examples of
Mrs. Hunter-White’s own work. The sale
of pictures will aid the cause of the
Blinded Soldiers. Any works that remain
unsold tomorrow (Thursday), will be auc-
tioned during the day by Max Lawson.
Wal Taylor, who divides his days be-
tween his Grosvenor Art Galleries in
George-street and voluntary work at Air
Force House and St. James’s Hostel, was
busy hanging and numbering the can-
vases at St. Brigid’s last Friday. The
show fills two small rooms and the big
billiard-room. These are shortly to be
turned into a flat. But the kookaburras
have already made a flat of their own on
the roof. A disused dovecote that had
been netted over suggested a good home
site to a pair of flat-hunting birds, so
they immediately tore off" the netting and
settled in ; they have since brought up a
family of laughing youngsters.
Cecile Louise Weston has just an-
nounced her engagement to Paymaster-
Lieut. A. Barclay Jamieson, R.A.N.R.
Cecile, who lives at Neutral Bay, is a
direct descendant of that pioneer Weston
who brought the first hounds to Aus-
tralia. Relics in the family of those far-
off days are the links made from the
brass buttons embossed with hounds that
adorned the ancestor’s hunting jacket.
The lieutenant’s parents were the G. A.
Jamiesons, of Ballarat.
The Westralian Women Writers’ Club
has had a grand idea for raising funds
for the Australian Comforts Fund. The
club has organised a patriotic-poem com-
petition, each entry to be accompanied
by a fee of 2s. 6d. The poem must not
exceed 12 lines, and, of course, must be
of a patriotic character. The prize is five
guineas. Closing date is October 15,
and entries should be addressed to
the secretary, West Australian Women
Writers’ Club, 29 Gardiner-street, Como,
South Perth (W.A.). After preliminary
judging, a certain number of the entries
will be published in Perth “Sunday
Times,” and will be open to public vote.
Each vote will cost the voter 6d.


Divorce Notices.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF TAS-
MANIA —In Divorce.
TO BRENDA MAVIS JOYCE McDONALD
formerly of Sandfly in Tasmania last heard of
in Sydney New South Wales—TAKE NOTICE
that a Petition has been filed in this Court
endorsed with a notice to you to appear and
answer the charges in the petition of JOHN
TURNER SYDNEY McDONALD of New
Town in Tasmania Carpenter praying for a
dissolution of his marriage with you In default
of your so appearing you will not be allowed
to address the Court and the Court will pro-
ceed to hear the said petition proved and pro-
nounce judgment in respect thereto AND
TAKE FURTHER NOTICE that for the pur-
pose aforesaid within Thirty days after the
date of this publication an appearance must be
entered at the Principal Registry of the Supreme
Court of Tasmania Macquarie Street Hobart
(1.5.) R. G. BINGHAM, Principal Registrar.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES—In Divorce.
TO HAROLD EDWARD AUSTIN late of
Burwood N.S.W.—TAKE NOTICE that
BERTHA BERYL AUSTIN has filed a Petition
for Divorce No. 2525 of 1943 on the ground of
desertion without just cause or excuse for three
years and upwards If you wish to defend you
may enter an appearance at the Divorce Office
Supreme Court King Street Sydney by the Ist
of November 1943 and obtain a copy of the
petition without charge from •''MADDOCKS
COHEN & MAGUIRE Solicitors 38 Martin
Place Sydney N.S.W. —(1.5.) C. K. BODY,
Registrar in Divorce.
£musr£&
Service*
?
The Navy, Army, Air Force, and the American Army are
using AGA Cookers in unit kitchens or military hospitals.
AGA Cookers have also been supplied to the Ministry of
Munitions. So any delays which may occur in the delivery
of AGA Cookers for civilian use are due to the urgent
needs of the fighting forces, and the forbearance of our
customers is therefore requested.
AGA, the original heat-storage Cooker, made in Britain,
is still pre-eminent for economy in fuel, continuous depend-
able service, conservation of nutritional qualities and finer
flavours in foods, and for simplicity of operation.
You are invited to call for a demonstration, or write for
illustrated catalogue R 9.
AGA
REG D. TRA D E MARK
The Original Heal Storage
COOKER
MADE in' BRITAIN
LEVIN & CO. LTD.
Eat. 7852 (Inc. in N.Z.)
45 King Street, Sydney, and
432 Bourlce Street, Melbourne.
S.A. Agents: Colton Palmer & Preston
Ltd., Adelaide.
Tasmanian Agents: A. G, Webster &
Sons, Hobart.
W.A. Agents: Malloch Bros. Ltd.,
Perth.
Pld. Agents: Queensland Primary
Producers' Co-op. Assn. Ltd., Brisbane.
r\
Although the Department of War
Organisation of Industry has restricted
the sale of domestic cookers, AGA
Cookers can still be delivered where
a permit from the Department can
be obtained. Write to us for full
particulars.
MACHINE-SHOP
No engineering works can run without oil. It is the chemist who
tirelessly seeks improvements both in methods of oil produc-
tion and the.provision of lubricating and cutting oils of greater
efficiency and economy. The use of oil at one stage entails
its removal at a later one, and one of the chemist’s outstand-
ing contributions to engineering lies in the development of new
methods for removing oil and grease. No longer is it neces-
sary to strip the grease from engine or metal parts by hand-
labour, with all the dirt and delay this involved. Instead
they can be “degreased” in a few minutes, even seconds, by
the trichlorethylene process. Nor is the chemical industry
content merely to produce trichlorethylene and its allied sol-
vents : it has designed and made available special “degreas-
ing” apparatus. Chemical research has led to developments
in the heat treatment of metals, an example being the case-
hardening of steel which can now be performed simply and
efficiently by means of baths of molten cyanide. It has also
devised an easy method of carrying out the annealing of
metal strip and wire by what is known as “bright annealing,”
so that the descaling of the metal by separate processes is
avoided. Finally, it has made available a multitude of
finishes, such as electro-plating and rust-proofing, which arc
essentials to modern engineering practice. The relationship
between the chemist and the engineer is a happy one. The
chemist contributes to improvements in the machine-shop. The
engineer responds by helping the chemical industry to solve
its problems and thereby to advance the value of the service
it gives to Industry as a whole.
IMPERIAL CHEMICAL INDUSTRIES
OF AUSTRALIA & NEW ZEALAND LTD.
SMOKE-OH!
“Susan Peters, the film actress, wanted to
be a doctor.” — Woman’s paper.
She got her name on big bills, anyhow.
•F *F *F ►F
It was decided to train the girls in one of
the more popular of the Russian ballets, but,
despite the long hours put into their training,
the girls just couldn’t succeed in camouflaging
their rawness.” — Short story.
How green was my ballet!
•F »F *F »F
“My twin sons have never quarrelled since
the day they were born.”— Story.
Why should they? Didn’t they start
off as bosom pals?
•F *F *F *F
“In the Malay language, the word AWAS
has only one meaning: Beware!”
— “World's News.”
Army Women Aren’t Simple.
•F *F *F *F
1943.
“Do girls still fall in love with the glamor
and swagger of a uniform?”
— Woman’s paper.
Theyncertainly do, as our Lucy will
prove. She’s a modern, excitable girl.
She’s in love with a uniform, swagger
and all, and her life is a mad, headlong
whirl. Though her husband is not in a
uniform, still little Lucy’s not guilty of
sin. She’s in love with a uniform, never-
theless . . . That’s the one that our Lucy
is in.
O’Hell.
“A housebreaker who had over 30 charges
of breaking and entering has been sentenced
to terms of imprisonment totalling 47 years.”
— “Sun.”
Strangely enough, he doesn’t think he
is in for a good time.
•F *F *F *F
“Bruce contemplated the ancient apple-tree,
which was covered with blossom at the moment.
Should he chop it down or not? He decided
he would.” —Short story.
After all, what was the use of the
blooming old thing?
“A later report says that Sciatica, with its
splendid airfield, has been occupied by the
Americans.”— Radio announcer.
A special communique issued by Allied
H.Q. announces that in a parallel drive
Lumbago was taken also. Military
observers in London believe that if
Arches fall the enemy will be unable to
retreat.
“Bassett became suspicious when he found
he had been given the wrong telephone number.”
— “Sun.”
There was something phony about
that.
❖ ‘FI* ►?.
“Tribulations of estate agents.”— News item.
Perhaps they have to walk the five
minutes’ walk from the station or throw
stones from the nearest tram.
“Chicken-pox is the easiest of all childhood
complaints.”— Woman’s paper.
In fact, it actually keeps children up
to scratch.
Hit.
“In aerial warfare a near-miss can have
devastating effects.” — Military writer.
I’ve learnt, with many a bitter tear,
This also holds for civil life:
How often does a miss get near
Enough to make herself a wife !
NAT.
Progress.
“Her eyes shone like the twin stones in an
engagement ring.”— Story.
Her eyes were diamondlike, ’tis said.
The statement isn’t phony.
But after he’d been caught and wed
Her gaze was still more stony.
YAIR.
The Question.
All through this night of words we three
Have argued on philosophy,
Till each is doubtful whether he
Can claim that he’s an entity.
And yet,-if I should not be Me,
I might be You! But let me see —
If I were You, and You were Me,
Then who the hell would Harry be ?
T. W. NATHAN.
Flight of Fancy.
“Horses Will Fly to Meetings.”—“Sun.”
Soon nags will fly from track to track
(We’re told) in aero floats as freight.
But how I wish the mokes I back
(The way they’re galloping of late )
Would cultivate the happy knack
Of flying swiftly down the straight!
P. O. M. C.
General Topic.
“Martha and Fay did not seem at all dis-
tressed by the fact that they had nothing to
talk about ” — Woman’s paper.
When girls have nothing to discuss
They’ve more resourcefulness than us.
For they reveal amazing power
To talk of nothing hour on hour.
T. W. N.
A Matter of Comparison.
The applicant’s knock at the Pearly
Gates brought St. Peter hurrying. After
some keen questioning the portals swung
wide, but St. Peter held up a hand.
“Before you decide to come in,” he
said in an apologetic tone, “1 have to
tell you things aren’t as good here as
they used to be. The amenities have
slipped a bit. To use a rather planetary
expression, the eats are not so hot now.”
“Oh, that’s all right with me,” said the
newcomer. “Fm easygoin’.”
“But Fm sure you don’t understand,”
pursued St. Peter. “For instance, the
butter ration here is only three ounces a
week ; you can see the bottom of the cup
clearly when it’s full of tea, whicn is
always stewed ; you’re not allowed butter
and jam on the same piece of bread ; the
porridge is always lumpy and half cold,
and we have to water the milk till it gets
that bluish look to make it spin out.”
“Ar, trifles like that don’t worry me.”
“I still think you don’t fully grasp just
what you’d have to put up with here,”
went on St. Peter. “What with the tight-
ening up through man-power shortage we
can only run a thin watery stew for the
main meal, and because of lack 5f
equipment the plum duff, when we have
one, has to be mixed in the pigs’ food
trough, so you’re liable to strike a carrot
top or some onion peelings now and then
in the duff, which, owing to the need for
economising in custard powder, has to be
eaten dry.”
“Gripes! Is that all a man’d have to
put up”
“Then there’s the question of accom-
modation. You’d only have half a sheet
on your bed and an old rug you could
shoot peas through, and the horsehair
out of the mattress sticks through the
ticking and pokes into you. For a
pillow you’ll have to use your boots.
There’s no place to lounge during the
day except on a concrete seat.”
“Forget it! I’ve had to put up with
worse than”
“And then as to clothes,” went on St.
Peter inexorably, “a pair of socks will
have to last you two years, and if your
prickly woollen singlets shrink you’ll
have to tack a bit of hessian on to them.
Also, you’ll have to wear the regulation
purple and yellow tie, and if you get a
tear in the seat of your pants you’ll just
have to put up with the draught.”
“Say, mate,” broke in the newcomer,
with more eagerness than reverence,
“you ain’t seen nothin’ yet. Listen, I’ve
just come from the Old Men’s Home
that’s run by that Great Friend of the
Poor the Sydney Labor Government.
Boy! the scran and clobber and stuff
you’ve been tellin’ me about’ll be real
heaven now!”
BO.


THE OTHER FELLOW'S MIND
The contributor placed first is paid
4|d. per line; all others 2Jd. per line.
A.E.S.
An individual point of view. 1 am a
fairly well-educated man turned soldier,
with a rusty brain. Since I took on a
course with the A.E.S. I've started to
think a little, my memory is working
again and I am again creative.
In my unit we had a gunner with flat
feet who had been a schoolmaster. He
was condemned by his physical disability
to a sedentary job at a telephone. An
A.E.S. course, which gave him an oppor-
tunity to fill those idle hours with solid
thinking, was the difference between hav-
ing him efficient at his job, interested and
keen, and seeing a clever man become
dull, stupid and inefficient.
There were others, and they all im-
proved in two ways. They retained their
mental alertness for the job in hand,
soldiering, and they are building an asset
for their future civilian life in, apart from
the training, a well-trained, orderly mind.
They will be better civilians.
The lack not so much of education
but of creative, original thinking is the
curse of democracy. Too often, and for
too long, we have read one paper only
and absorbed our politics from it alone.
Like religion, our political beliefs arc
either hereditary or spring from our
social and business associations ; they are
not, as they should be, a result of
reasoned thinking. It is in developing this
latent faculty of reasoned thinking that
the A.E.S. is doing a grand service, not
only to the men themselves but to Aus-
tralia. — John H. (W.A.).
Pensions for Disabled Soldiers
As a member of the first contingent of
the Second A.I.F. I feel qualified to put
forward the case of pensions for returned
sick and wounded soldiers.
Having served in Libya, Palestine,
Greece and Crete I was wounded in the
Malayan campaign and invalided back to
Australia, where 1 was discharged as
medically unfit and granted a pension of
14/3 a week.
Many of my comrades who also served
in all these campaigns have been dis-
charged on equally inadequate pensions.
Many of these men who have sustained
injuries have been unable to secure
decent jobs that will enable them to sup-
port themselves and their families.
There has been enough talking going
on since the beginning of the war. If
we had stopped to talk when we were
going into action there would perhaps
have been very different results. It is
high time the politicians of this country
stopped their petty party quarrelling and
gave some serious thought to rehabilitat-
ing, in a decent and honorable way,
those men who fought willingly and
bravely for their country. — One of the
First Thousand NXs (N.S.W.).
Returned Soldier Preference
Already the question of returned sol-
dier preference has been raised, and it
looks as if it will soon be a very impor-
tant one. After the last war the prefer-
ence given to soldiers who had fought
abroad, in selection for positions, was
fair and just. But this time there is no
clear-cut distinction between those en-
titled to preference and those not. The
soldiers who returned were given prior
consideration for two reasons. First, as
a reward for offering to give their lives in
defence of the Empire. Second, because
their prolonged military service had dis-
rupted their civilian prospects, avoca-
tions and studies.
In this war thousands of men volun-
teered two, three and four years ago,
were accepted for service anywhere in
the world, but were retained in Australia
because their services were needed at
home. Not every fighting man could
have the honor of driving the Axis from
the desert or the Jap from Salamaua and
Lae, though his heart and spirit and every
desire were there.
Obviously, then, the clear-cut distinc-
tion of last war doesn’t exist this time,
and to impose it would be grossly unjust.
And yet it will be imposed, and thou-
sands victimised, unless the problem is
cleared sensibly, and beyond all doubt,
before the war ends. We began this war
disastrously with 1914-18 tactics. The
peace will need modern methods.— Pip
(Vic.).
Menzies
The Bulletin, defending Mr. Menzies,
asked why there is so much hostility to
him. The men of my unit dislike him,
and we know why. He was Prime
Minister when the first 20,000 men of the
A.I.F. were enlisted under the vague
terms “for service at home or abroad.”
After a fortnight in camp a compul-
sory parade was held after tea to listen
to Mr. Menzies broadcast to the men in
military camps. Everybody waited
anxiously for him to announce that the
A.I.F. would be going overseas. No such
thing. After speaking very eloquently
without saying a thing, he wound up by
telling how he had called up the militia
and what they were doing, and finally
mentioned vaguely that there were also
some A.I.F. at Ingleburn. We were not
in Ingleburn and we were disappointed.
Later on, in Egypt, a brigade parade
was held for Mr. Menzies. Such
parades were always unpopular, but
when the visitor of the hour raced up,
dived out of his car, raced round the
brigade talking to the commanding
officers without throwing more than an
occasional glance at the ranks, and then
leapt into his car and away, our feelings
were hurt. The fact that we marched
home in a sandstorm and that Mr.
Menzies’s speech was read out to us later
did nothing to soothe our feelings. Nor
did the fact that after returning to Aus-
“TO LET. —Portion of roof , with own chimney. Good view.”
tralia he broadcast that he had seen all the
Australian troops and had brought back
personal messages to the people at home.
The fact that he was late owing to
circumstances did not excuse his conduct
to us. When Mr. Churchill was two
hours late owing to a bomb blowing up
the line ahead of his train, he managed
to inspect us properly and to deliver his
speech. And nobody would assert that
he was not at least as busy as the Aus-
tralian Prime Minister. — Admiral (Q.).
Rugby League Football
For heaven’s sake, Bulletin, leave the
N.S.W. Rugby League alone! Though
an old reader and admirer of the paper,
I have been exasperated into ink, paper
and postage by your petty and persistent
captiousness. What’s your grouch?
Is it the big turnover the R.L. has been
making? There are plenty of other con-
cerns enjoying prosperity, indirectly on
account of the war —theatres, for one in-
stance. The extra attendances are due
partly to service men on leave, partly to
the restrictions on tennis and golf, partly
to the restrictions on racing and partly
to petrol rationing.
Do you object to professionalism in
sport? Surely you’re not as narrow-
minded as that? Your racing columns
have survived newsprint cuts better than
most of your features and you still report
boxing. You affect complete indifference
to R.L. scores and news, while con-
scientiously reporting R.U. matches
which aroused so little interest that the
attendance fell below 500 in some cases.
Amateurs certainly show great loyalty
to their clubs —witness the distance some
travel to play with their team each week,
at their own expense, of course, of
course. But then their clubs look after
them so well, as one can easily sec by
glancing at “lemons” in balance sheets.
Is Rugby League still unforgiven for
its association with an Aid Russia society
of dubious antecedents? (The conse-
quence was a widespread distribution of
Hewlett Johnson’s Socialist Sixth.) Many
better and more responsible people than
R.L. heads were taken in, and the League
has redeemed itself since.
Does Rugby League interfere with the
winning of the war? I note that one first-
grade club which finished well up on the
list had two players at a practice, the
other 11 being in the forces ; that another
club boasts over 100 members in uni-
form ; that Bruce Ryan, back from N.G.,
is a trifle lost without his brother along-
side him in the centre. That brother is
still in N.G. —under a wooden cross. If
the Rugby League is a refuge for shirkers
(which no one associated with the code
will admit for a moment), what in the
name of fortune are our army authorities
and man-power men doing? If they are
remiss, another postulate hard to grant,
let The Bully’s gibes fall on their heads.
Meanwhile The Bulletin would do
well not to let its trivial animosities color
its usually sane judgments, and thus
alienate the feelings of thousands of its
readers who enjoy the harmless dissipa-
tion of an afternoon at the “footy.”—
R. B. L. (Tas.).
Lawyers and Arbitration
What do Arbitration Court Judges
know about working conditions in any
industry? The Judge, generally speak-
ing, goes through college and university,
then starts practice as a lawyer, never
working for a day in a factory, shop,
warehouse or mine. He is a successful
lawyer and eventually is appointed to the
Bench. But when he sits on a case he has
to rely on statements made by advocates
for both sides, each painting a biased
picture.
Occasionally his Honor decides to
visit some works that are involved in
the dispute, and when he arrives there
is a set-up which, if nothing else, amuses
the people who are most involved and
who have the least say —employees.
Usually the result is an award that is not
palatable to either employees or manage-
ment.
Yet the principle of arbitration would
have a lot to commend it if the men
appointed to arbitrate had a full under-
standing of the workings of industry.—
Dajarra (N.S.W.).
Leisure Clubs for Children
“Pawang” (B. 4/8/’43) says the sug-
gestion of giving schoolchildren sex edu-
cation en masse would be unsuccessful as
children would never be all receptive at
the same time. This is sound sense.
But how about enlarging the sex-lec-
turc scheme and starting a national sys-
tem of after-school-hours leisure clubs
where such tuition could be included un-
obtrusively in a larger scheme for de-
veloping good citizens?
These clubs could be presided over by
persons other than schoolteachers, and
there are many minds which would be
attracted by such work.
Leisure clubs such as these would give
valuable training in the social sense, and
should do much to eliminate the anti-
social problem-child.
Sex instruction imparted in such an
atmosphere, in a place with pleasant
associations to the child where the ideal
was unobtrusively upheld and qualities
of pride in hobbies and interests were
fastened, would have a far more enduring
influence for good than would come out
of loading an already overburdened
teacher with one more “item” to be got
through in a specified time. —Scribe
(Q-).
Argentina No Model
“Agricola” (B. 8/9/’43) says Argentina
“owes its entire success to the irrigation
which turned its deserts of sand into
alfalfa pastures.” There are vast areas
under alfalfa in the provinces of Buenos
Aires, Cordoba, Santa Fe and Entre Rios,
and these provinces produce immense
quantities of wheat, maize and linseed in
addition to the alfalfa. A good rainfall
there renders irrigation unnecessary. The
only irrigated areas of any importance
are in the Andine povinces of Mendoza
and San Juan, but these areas are devoted
almost exclusively to the production of
wine and fruit. Australia has nothing to
learn from Argentina so far as irrigation
is concerned.' —E. H. S. (N.S.W.).
Immigrants
R. H. Parkes (B. 1/9/J43) asks what
means outside Jewish immigration I
would suggest to increase Australia’s
population. I suggest that we take ad-
vantage of the presence here of tens of
thousands of virile young Americans and
do something to induce them to become
citizens of Australia. I have little faith
that anything of the sort will be done,
for I have repeatedly witnessed in peace-
time the whole power of State and Com-
monwealth Governments employed in the
running down and deporting of some
solitary unwanted immigrant, usually a
youthful Scandinavian, the finest pioneer-
ing type now to be found, who has
jumped his ship with the idea of becom-
ing a citizen of Australia.
I have no doubt that once the war is
over and the Jap put back in his place
we will again witness such spectacles.
Australians received a great fright when
the Jap got so close, but that they will
soon forget, and with it the need for in-
creased population.
Even at the present moment, when thou-
sands of our bravest and best are crawl-
ing around in New Guinea slime, with
the momentary expectation of receiv-
ing a bullet through the head, the well-
fed, sleep-in-comfortable-bed stay-at-
homes are nagging at the Prime Minister
for the restoration of races every Satur-
day.—W. C. C. (W.A.).
Influence of the Bush
In solitude, amid growing things, we
may observe the workings of Nature’s
laws, and sense something of that affinity
that binds us to all Nature’s offspring,
and which reflects the spirit of our
common Maker. The magic of the bush
calls and our poets lead the way to its
precincts and strange beauties. Bernard
O’Dowd, in “The Bush,” tells us that:
She is the scroll on which we are to write
Mythologies our own and epics new-
Most Australian writers touch on the
bush in some way, and many seek to in-
terpret its meaning. Australian litera-
ture is bush-born and -bred.
Australian soldiers, some far from
their native shores, see, in perspective,
the unique qualities of this land of open
spaces and will recall her beauties lov-
ingly. Arnold Gardner, a young soldier,
expresses himself thus:
Behind my eyes dance the sweet, cool gums,
Sleep still grey morns, dust throbs,
Still towards
The faint blue infinity of mountains.
Because I love these things
I fight, breaking
The misty veil of the future.
Only my eyes.
Full of Australian summer,
Speak my regrets.
When the enemy has been quelled and
the war is over, what is it that the men
will want when they return to ways of
peace? In their new assessment of life
they will demand truer values, more jus-
tice in social life, greater freedom to work
out their destiny. They will have become
philosophers in the bush, for to see life
truly it must be seen in perspective:
and in the outback solitudes they will
have had time and opportunity to think
and perceive things as never before. They
have been far removed from the circum-
stances of their former everyday exist-
ences. They will have shed many illu-
sions and gained new powers of heart and
mind. They will want to dedicate their
lives to the development of their country,
its riches and possibilities. They will say,
with lan Mudie:
Once we have seen the sun through eucalypt
leaves,
Once we have drunk the scent of all the bush —
Once we have felt this land, this land alone,
As our whole world, our wealth, our strength,
our life,
Then living blood shall course our veins anew,
This land shall then know patriots worthy of
its vast soil,
Bent to the building here in nationhood
Of new life in this South : New life, indeed,
Mighty with national purpose,
Strong with Australian need.
—Ross Moray (Vic.).


Sts
•St'
I
if
■^B^>S!s»
u
~^7
«r
£
m
4
A PART OF
AUSTRALIA’S WAR EFFORT
#
<1 In the air, at sea, and on land, Wireless is
helping Australia on her W T ar Fronts. The ex-
tensive manufacturing resources and the Research
and Engineering Laboratories of Amalgamated
Wireless are to-day engaged in the production
of wireless equipment for the Navy, Army, Air
Force, and Merchant Navy,
miCmiED WIRELESS (1'Sll) 111
AUSTRALIA’S NATIONAL WIRELESS ORGANISATION
Buy £lO National Savings Bonds and War Savings Certificates
