

d
The Bulletin
“The Bulletin,” Vol 64.~N0. 3290
Wednesday, March 3, 1943
Price 6d.
Registered at the Genera! Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper*
Seppelts
I N OLD GLOUCESTER.
P LOUCESTER, among all English cities, enjoys a popularity
G with visitors from .he B four cofners of the earth that the pass-
mg of time and the creation or establishment of new centres of
attraction fail to affect. Taken all round m this particular at
least, this city, which has played so considerable a part m the
making of English history, may be described as almost unique.
Its position, dominating an important crossing of the Severn,
sheltered by the Cotswolds on the east, with the Malvern Hills
rising prominently to the west, has exercised considerable
influence in its long and eventful “life.” However Gloucester is
regarded, socially, artistically, politically, ecclesiastically, it
demands attention. In the realm of music, the Three Choirs
Festival, held in the magnificent cathedral every third year, is
an “item” of World-Wide interest. Some of the century-old
houses present a delightful and, be it said, restful contrast to the
ultra-modern erections all 100 familiar to-day. Not its least
claims to “immortality” repose in the city’s being the buthplace
of two men whose moral influence on mankind is beyond human
computation—the saintly George Whitefield, one of the greatest
founders of Methodism, and the Rev. Richard Ra.kes, the
<£ the" 5
M.A., an Oxford man of a fantastic turn, that influence which
reduced the literary affectations of the tune “ ’’’
Molfy tdd us that Taytri ol learing
served under Oueen Elizabeth in sixteen
and seen active service under the Earl of Essex at Cadiz
* zor£S took a more peace ful, though still adventurous,
occupation on the River Thames. He read many books, wrote
booklets to amuse the public with their oddities, made
presents of them to customers and courtiers, accepting in return
whatever they might give. One of his books related how he won
a bet he wou ld row a boat to the Continent, Hamburg and
back, within a certain time. Another of his “stunts, described
in “The Pennyless Pilgrimage” (published 1618), was
on foot from London to Edinburgh, "W
to atnd fro ueithef begging borrowing
or lodging. A further adventure was a voyage from London
to Queenborough rtow Sheerne;si<.ent on t^^tuary^o^lhe
in a paper ’, . - ... n , ,4 leaves with
for oars. This teat throueh” the reign of
a long title Taylor wrote onthfcugy the reign o
Charles I, and took Part in the Oy.l War by discharging squ.ps
M SSHk 2^5
Mourning Crown ” This title he had to remove, so set up his
own portrait in its place.


"Story Writing
This Book FREE to YOU!
STOTTS CORRESPONDENCE COLLEGE,
100 Russell Street, Melbourne.
Please send, without obligation, your New Free
Booklet, explaining how to Write for Profit, at
advertised in the Sydney “Bulletin/’
My Name
My Addreu
The Red Page
"Ned Kelly" and Australian
Verse-Drama.
“Some poets may have proved poor drama-
tists enough; but what great dramatist has
not been a p0et?..,.0f this, I am certain.
1 he theatre, if it is to survive, needs poets.”
—Hurley Granville Barker.
For 250 years the verse-play in Eng-
lish has been a thorny, abortive subject.
Let us •5t argue its value. Every critic
worth, ‘he name declares that the
dram me to highest expression
only throui of poetry, as in the
(lor . : :o i. .reece and Elizabethan
F ; ■ ■ id. rom the time when Dry-
f n debated flat sterile issue, whether
>e in blank verse or rhymed
pts to revive poetic drama
■ -en sporadic, divorced from the
i ’ ents of theatre activity and
• allures.
ighteenth century produced a few
'di orks like Addison’s “Cato” and
son’s “Irene.” The early-nineteenth-
jry theatre in England was so cut off
,n literature that Scott declared he
- juld rather write for Punch and Judy.
rue, the Romantics turned out poetic
dramas —Byron, Coleridge, Shelley. Of
these, only ShelUv wrote anything in-
stinct with dramatic energy, “The Cenci.”
The verse dramas of Tennyson and
Browning were complete frosts. At the
end of the nineteenth century came
Yeats’s important experiments in Ire-
land, but Yeats could never be an im-
portant dramatist. There have been the
verse-plays of Masefield, Bottomley,
Flecker, with Sean O’Casey, a successful
dramatist, feeling for new ways in “The
Silver Tassie” and “Within the Gates.”
After that came a break, the thing seemed
once again finished, a corpse, until T. S.
Eliot brought out his ritualistic “Murder
in the Cathedral” and obscurantist
“Family Reunion”; while Auden and
Isherwood went searching ballet and
revue for a form, to produce interesting
but heterogeneous efforts such as “The
Dog Beneath the Skin.” And in America
Maxwell Anderson gave us the brilliant
“Winterset” and MacLeish the equally
striking and original radio verse play
“The Fall of the City.”
Those are key names in a rapid look
over the repeated attempts of poets to
establish themselves in the English-writ-
ten theatre. Has the fact that so few
even of these have succeeded in any prac-
tical sense (for to me the poetic drama
means essentially a drama capable of
performance like any other) been due to
limitations within these poets themselves?
Or because theatrical soil in modern
times, used to one naturalistic crop after
another, simply will not take such a sow-
ing?
This last I firmly refuse to accept,
partly because of the wide public success
of the exceptions (“Winterset,” “Murder
in the Cathedral”) and partly because I
believe that experiment has not yet ex-
pended its impetus—in fact, has hardly
begun to get under way. There is the
new opportunity of radio. And it is only
in the last few years that realistic and
contemporary subjects, social satire,
political commentary, have asserted their
right to be treated in verse-plays, in
reaction against Yeats’s plea for self-
isolation in dim forests of Gaelic legend
or romantic history. Then at last has
come the realisation, arising out of the
twentieth-century liberalisation of pros-
ody, that if verse-drama is to be vital it
must find new rhythms, ceasing to radiate
echoes of the glorious past. For until
recently nearly all attempts at reviving
poetic drama had based themselves auto-
matically on Elizabethan models in spite
of vast changes in ways of life since those
times.
For further confirmation of that, look
at some Australian verse-dramas. Jack
Lindsay’s “Marino Faliero” and “Here-
ward the Wake.” Luxuriant verse, of
immense gusto, but taking its tone from
Shakspeare, though with no sense of
stage whatever. Helen Simpson’s “A
Man of His Time,” about Cellini.
Vigorous, with wit, invective, but once
again a pendant to Shakspeariana. J. le
Gay Brereton’s short “Tomorrow,” an
incident of Greene, the dramatist, and
Kenneth MacKenzie’s fresh radio play
“Young Shakspeare.” Both of a distinc-
tion that owes as much to a literary tradi-
tion as to life.
Observe that these playwrights and
others go back to European history for
material, most sticking closely to the
actual Renaissance period so to feel the
more comfortable when using that
strange, time-hallowed instrument blank
verse, which seems to belong for all time
there. There isn’t among them a single
sport willing to take an Australian sub-
ject close to their own lives. Not that
they weren’t good Australians. But that
blank verse didn’t appear to fit the Aus-
tralian scene, any more than hose and
jerkin, glades and primroses.
Against this background we may cor-
rectly measure Douglas Stewart’s achieve-
ment, not merely in the newly-published
“Ned Kelly” (Angus and Robertson) but
in his two as yet unpublished radio plays
“The Fire on the Snow” and “The
Golden Lover.” We may say that a poet
wanting to take up play writing would
need to avoid all the errors of associative
derivation, of unplayability, of remote
interest in character, while writing
verse equal to his own best. Merely to
write excellent verse would not be
enough. It must be a different verse,
as Shelley, when he wrote “The Cenci,”
immediately perceived. Using the drama-
tic form, it must subdue itself to the
needs of drama. It would require to
have both a varied rhythm and a clear
meaning rendering it speakable and
listenable for long periods. It must con-
vey the cadence and accent of simple
human speech while allowing scope for
flights of imagination and passages of
deeper emotion. It must be able to de-
velop and sustain a momentum. It must
in its imagery and passion momentarily
relate itself to conceptions of character
in action, this being the germ and truth
of the play qua play. It must in its con-
sciousness of life have a fresh relevance
to contemporary moods and values, even
when the scene be historical.
In other words, if an outstanding verse-
play were to be written in Australia, it
must be good verse and it must be a
good play, the two things judged sepa-
rately and judged together. If it were to
fall down in one respect it would incur
the contempt of literary critics; if in
the other respect, neglect of theatre or
radio experts.
This was the position when Douglas
Stewart came to the problem three years
ago. Stewart might have been trusted to
write interesting verse. His earlier books
of short poems, preciously-titled Green
Lions and The White Cry, were rich in
silver-tongued lyricism, lovely patterns of
sound, revealing indeed an unimpeach-
able ear for verbal music, even when the
thought was elusive, the emotional
source slight. Yet from The White Cry,
with its suggestions of early Yeats, or
even from the succeeding booklet. Elegy
for an Airman, one couldn’t in years
have forecast a turning to the radio play
and certainly not the composition of
the almost-perfect work in this form that
is “The Fire on the Snow.”
As I had the pleasure of introducing
this work to the public on its first broad-
cast, I shall not expound on it here. The
main thing is that Stewart suddenly and
all at once found a subject, the Scott
Antarctic expedition ; a theme, heroic en-
durance unto death ; a form, the con-
tinually-moving single scene (that is,
moving through time and space), indi-
genous to radio and not suitable for
film or stage ; a magnificent command
over verse varying from colloquial ex-
changes between the five men on the ice
to the narrator’s finely-sculptured com-
ment, heavy with fate ; and a gift for
conveying the most poignant human emo-
tion. From a poetic viewpoint, “The
Fire on the Snow” was unexceptionable ;
in form, its one fault was over-subtlety
in the individual presentment of the five
men, an absence of clear, distinct inter-
relation between them. But the intensity
of telling was such that this lack of true
character-conflict didn’t seem to matter.
As the five men shrank to two and death
came to Wilson and Scott in the tent, one
of the most moving scenes in all drama
took the listener under its almost unen-
durable spell. “The Fire on the Snow”
established itself at the outset as a classic
of our literature, and will remain so.
But what an unenviable problem has
the writer of a classic in his next work!
Stewart avoided self-imitation, leaving
that to others. He could have taken
Columbus (as Louis Macneice has re-
cently done for the 8.8. C.) or Burke and
Wills ; instead, he came down from the
sublime and gave us the shattering
novelty of a blank-verse play about —
Ned Kelly and co.
This time, too, he wrote for stage. “Ned
Kelly” claimed to show the hero motif in
reverse—the heroic will perverted. The
play is already known to many from two
radio performances, but its present pub-
lication gives a text nearly twice as full.
“Ned Kelly” is not as completely success-
ful as “The Fire on the Snow.” But in its
scope of intention, as well as in its narra-
tive and poetic accomplishment, it is an
outstanding work.
It was surely a challenging venture to
take a set of young bush larrikins from
the ’seventies and give them a heroic voice
if not necessarily a heroic stature. This
was indeed the first highly original
element of Stewart’s revolt against the
quasi-Shakspearean tradition. Not for
him a subject already rendered partly
poetic by literary and historical associa-
tion, such as Cellini or Greene. Cer-
tainly Ned Kelly’s name fias acquired
an aura of glamor among some: in
others’ minds the name spells only repug-
nance, as that of a scoundrelly, murder-
ous young pup. Stewart went with re-
freshing directness to this task, happy to
be the target for thoughtless reaction:
“Oh, but how ridiculous —the Kellys in a
verse drama!”
As a show, the play has many fine
moments of drama. The first two scenes,
in the bank and pub at Jerilderie, are
too long and too static or retrospective
in relation to the whole. They seem to
dawdle with byplay and words at a
time when we are anxious to get on with
exciting action. After them the play
becomes dynamic. The scene in the
mountain hideout beautifully gives the
quality of isolation and frustration in a
wilderness of gum-trees; the islanded
scene of Sherritt waiting for death at the
hands of Joe Byrne is first-rate suspense-
writing ; and the Glenrowan jollification
while the party awaits the ghastly sound
of a train crashing is a turbulent mixing
of moods.
If about the final scenes I feel less cer-
tain satisfaction this is maybe because
the author himself is not too sure what
is the play’s real ideational core. T. S.
Eliot, in one of his earlier essays, says
that “every work of imagination should
have a philosophy... .The essential is to
get upon the stage this precise statement
of life which is at the same time a point
of view—a world which the author’s
mind has subjected to a complete pro-
cess of simplification.” Does one feel
that the process of simplification is com-
plete in “Ned Kelly”? Perhaps the rich-
ness of the chronology of events has be-
guiled Stewart into imagining that they
themselves make a play; at any rate, I
do not think that his own attitude to his
theme of the outlaw is fully worked out
in spite of his romantic bias towards the
bushrangers as symbols of freedom, of
contempt for cramped, orthodox, respect-
able living.
Also, Stewart does not altogether
succeed in making Ned himself vivid and
dominating. Byrne takes the stage first
and follows up his lead ; in any case, by
being the poet in a poetical play, as well
as the lover, the wit, the amusing tippler,
he captures the imagination—a striking
figure with many extraordinarily eloquent
things to say. The various subsidiaries
have adequately convincing life.
As for the verse, Stewart had found
for himself, as in “The Fire on the
Snow,” a loose, rolling line, receptive of
slang and fine imagery alike, hard to
scan in five obvious feet but nevertheless
keeping essentially to that pentametric
beat. Avoiding all echoes of the quasi-
Shakspearean, this line (often made
up of anapaests and iambics in rough
alternation) is within the speaking capa-
city of modern actors and provides a
rhythmic speech unconsciously acceptable
to present-day listeners who would not
be prepared to touch Poetry with the pro-
verbial barge-pole. Its texture in “Ned
Kelly” is rich, with much emotional and
nature coloring, strongly Australian ; for,
though a New Zealander, Stewart can
catch the uncombed pattern, smell and
raw touch of Australian earth. And part
of the play’s business is to show the
Kellys as growing out of that Australian
earth and the tough, free tradition up to
that time:
Australia’s the violent country; the earth itself
Suffers, cries out in anger against the sunlight
From the cracked lips of the plains; and with
the land,
With the snake that strikes from the dust.
The people suffer and cry their anger and kill.
I have come to understand it in love and pity;
Not horror now; I understand the Kellys.
So speaks Gribble. One of these days
a theatre entrepreneur with a little more
courage than we are used to in Australia
will take a chance with “Ned Kelly” and
gape to find a “hit” on his hands.
I should like to have talked of Stewart’s
“The Golden Lover.” This recently car-
ried off the A.B.C.’s verse-play prize,
eclipsing several other promising efforts.
It is a move away from both “The Fire
on the Snow” and “Ned Kelly.” It is
set on a more familiar plane, a holiday
from strong emotional writing, though
equally nostalgic with the others, a
romantic comedy, based in Maori legend,
but linking itself with the heart of
womanhood and with human understand-
ing everywhere. It is less important, but,
in its illumination and integration of
character, a more complete play. As
with , “Ned Kelly,” the author writes
too much. But in ability to set
down the common face of recog-
nisable individuals, while sacrificing
nothing of poetic aspiration, Stewart
grows. It is exciting to watch him grow.
There then is Stewart’s achievement to
date. I have no hesitation in saying that
these three plays, two for radio and one
for stage, form the most important Aus-
tralian contribution to date of genuine,
as opposed to “literary,” poetic drama.
These plays prove that poetic drama is
practical, for they have given immense
pleasure to great numbers of people in-
terested in plays rather than in verse. In
this country we have a good many plays
but few dramatists. We need writers who
will pursue the study of dramatic form
past initial experiments. I hope that
Stewart will set an example to poets in
doing this. He may not remain for ever
the romantic. Personally, I should like
to see him meeting the challenge of the
age we live in rather than retreating to
private worlds. Literature, as Vance
Palmer said, cannot be indifferent to the
preoccupations of its time. But Stewart
is an artist and will find his way.
LESLIE REES.
SUNDRY SHOWS.
Conan Doyle never managed to send
his message from beyond the grave. But
he has apparently gone one better by
supplying a film plot wherein the favorite
creation of his brain outwits the Nazis,
whom the stout Conan had never even
heard of in his corporeal existence. In
“Sherlock Holmes and the Voice of
Terror” (G.U. Theatres) the great sleuth
is in transcendent form, and after a two-
second glance at the heel of a states-
man’s boot he is able to deduce that he
had eggs and coffee for yesterday’s break-
fast, is fond of polo and Debussy, and
that his grandmother had a wart on her
second chin. If the modernising of his
hero wasn’t done with ghostly aid or
connivance, S’Arthur must be revolving
in his pine topcoat at the spectacle of
what the screen moguls have done to
poor old Sherlock. Still, it is uncon-
sciously quite funny.
Melbourne National Theatre’s pro-
duction of Reginald Berkeley’s “The
Lady with the Lamp” was handicapped
by the fact that events as stirring as
the Florence Nightingale story are being
reported daily. It would require much
more insight than is possessed by the
playwright to make Florence Nightingale
into a living figure. Nevertheless, Shirley
Fosdick played the role with dignity and
determination, and William Carr made a
finely natural study of the Dr. Sutherland
who shares Miss Nightingale’s contempt
for official obscurantism. The Nat.
Theatre is to tackle a season of opera,
beginning with “Orpheus,” “Hansel and
Gretel” and “Tales of Hoffmann.” It de-
serves support these days, if only for
its courage.
First a dog and then an air-raid alarm
considerably enlivened the first night of
Eden and Adelaide Philpotts’s mildly
amusing “Yellow Sands” at Sydney Inde-
pendent Theatre. The intervention of
the hound, which lent highly articulate
support to the stage fight between the
socialist Joe and the philandering yokel
Arthur, and had to be hastily prevented
from rushing to the stage to demonstrate
on which side his sympathies really lay,
seemed to infuse a new life into both
the play and the players ; the sirens didn t
worry either. Charles Tasman as the
tippling Dick didn’t need the dog to
rouse him to his best efforts, and the
giggling graces Nellie and Minnie (Flor-
ence Dugan and Gwen Oatley) were good
all through, but the others were much
more light-hearted A.D. {apres dog)
than they had been B.C. (before chien).
“Cauboy”: Hostilities against the Mel-
bourne weather were resumed at the
Botanic Gardens and resulted in an over-
whelming victory for the Melbourne Con-
servatorium Orchestra under Hector
Crawford. A cool breeze and cloudy
heavens tempered the sun, and a political
discussion between two wild ducks only
added local color to the appropriately-
chosen “Swan Lake” of Tschaikowsky.
The equally appropriate “One Fine Day
of Puccini was carried over the treetops
by the pure soprano of Thea Philips.
Thus encouraged, the Sidney Myer
Charitable Trust (cultural division
is to present Melbourne with an orchestra
bowl on the lines of the famous Holly-
wood example, Man-power permitting.
It would be a fitting gesture if Hector
Crawford were put in charge of the
arrangements. He is the only conductor
who has maintained his belief that Provi-
dence is interested in open-air concerts.


"TRUTH IN ADVERTISING'
"THE SENIOR STORE"
ANTHONY HORDERNS’
119 Years of Service
There's No Need To Get Wet
YOU CAN KEEP
BONE DRY
IN OUR
"DRIAZABONE"
WATERPROOF
These "Driazabone" light-
weight Oiled Canvas Water-
proofs are fully guaranteed.
Made with storm fronts, rust-
less fasteners, throat tab, leg
straps, butterfly back, two
man - sized pockets, cape
shoulders, double arm pieces,
body lined. A Coat for riding
or walking. At Anthony Hor-
derns'. Price £5/15/-
12 Coupons.
■
?' mm
fd
OFFICERS'
UNIFORMS
Military Officers' Ready-
to-Wear Field Grey Cotton
Drill Uniforms. Made of
English Cotton Drill, and
tailored in our own work-
rooms. These Uniforms
are coupon free. At
Anthony Horderns'. 90/-
SAFARI" JACKET
Military Officers' "Safari” Jackets.
Light in weight and smartly
tailored. Khaki Shirtings. Open
neck. Military patch pockets, all
round belt and buckle. Easy
action sleeve and armhole. S.M.,
M. and Outsize fittings. At
Anthony Horderns'. Price, 257-
NOTE. —If your order is accom-
panied by a requisition, signed
by your C. 0., these are coupon
free. If not, 12 Coupons required.
KHAKI DRILL SHORTS
English Khaki Drill Shorts. Military style. Made
with double waist strap, pleats front and back.
Made of pre-shrunk Cotton Drill in fast dye. At
Anthony Horderns'. Price 13/9
4 Coupons Required.
O Men’s Wear —Ground floor, George Street.
MEN'S UNDERWEAR
Natural Wool and Cotton in standard make. Closed
front, short sleeves, medium weight.
Undershirts —
Sizes, inches . . 34 36 38 40 42 44
Prices, each . . 5/11 6/6 6/11 7/6 8/- 8/6
5 Coupons Required.
Underpants, ankle length—
Sizes, inches .... 36 38 40 42
Prices, each .. .. 8/3 8/11 9/3 9/9
6 Coupons Required.
ANTHONY HORDERNS'
FAMOUS LOW PRICES
'Phone: M 2401 (Day and Night) Postal Address; Box 2712 C, G.P.0., Sydney


A MAN'S LIFE
By ROBERT CLARK.
/I FTER the funeral Joe and
f j I went across to the pub ;
V, j it’s a family custom with
me, but Joe had reasons
of his own. He told me he
was leaving for a staff job
with the V.D.C. and mightn’t be seeing
me for a time. That’s as it may be, but
I could see things were on his mind a
bit; and, though-he won’t let on, funerals
make him feel low nowadays when he’s
in knocking distance of sixty.
We ordered a couple of beers, but
neither of us felt like saying much. I
couldn’t get old Tom Pfeiffer’s ugly face
out of my head.
“You won’t see his name on any
blasted honor roll,” said Joe, and I knew
then that our thoughts were running in
the same furrow.
V\J E’D both seen Tom about a month
before on the Jacckarrandah road,
and it was a sight we wouldn’t forget in
a hurry. We’d just turned the bend at
the thirteen-mile when we ran slap into
a mob of cattle straying all over the road
like the Brown family going to church.
Joe jammed on the brakes and started
doing acrobatics on the wheel, and we
just missed a cow and two hulking steers
and came to rest with a gentle bump on
the tail of a young heifer.
On one side of the three-chain road
was a nipper watching a couple of nervy
young steers. He couldn’t have been
more than six years old, but he was riding
bareback astride a mare big enough for
a trooper. On the other side, old Tom
was trying to head off a bunch that were
breaking through an opening in the fence.
The kid was pathetic enough, but Tom
was worse. He was hanging on to the
pommel with both hands, and every now
and then you could see the jarring of
his whole frame as he lost control of his
seat. There was a strained, agonised look
on the strong old face that was now
grown loose with age. When you’d seen
him in his prime, as we had, riding in
the ring on show days, it hurt, so we piled
out and helped round the mob up on foot.
“His trouble was he never ever got
the carrot,” said Joe.
I looked at him in surprise, and then
caught his meaning. “He was pretty
comfortable towards the end.”
“Yes; but he didn’t want comfort nor
money neither, for that matter. He got
’em both, up to a point, but somehow
he never got what he was really after.
“He was different from you and me.
You’ve had some sort of education, I
ain’t, but we’re satisfied to work on the
place. We think things are not so bad
if the wool cheque’s bigger than it was
last year and if we can get in here once
a week for a pot, but Tom was always
wanting something different. He’d never
had much more education than he’d given
himself, though God knows that was
enough for any reasonable joker, but he
wasn’t satisfied.”
“I know. If he’d had the time he’d
have spent it all in reading.”
“That’s what I mean. Did you ever
see him in that little place he built in
town, when he reckoned he’d retired and
left the farm to Bill?”
I nodded.
“ ’Struth. Books! I never seen any-
thing like it; and he had a telescope he
looked at the stars with. And happy!
He was never one to wear his heart on
his sleeve, but that day it kept tumbling
out of his eyes.”
* < FA O you remember the time we first
met him?” I asked.
Joe nodded and pushed the glasses
across for another round.
I was eight then. Joe, about eighteen,
was working for us, and one summer’s
night Dad went over to say g’day to a
new neighbor and took us with him. Tom
had just arrived on that first scrub block
of his. It was just on dusk. Tom was com-
ing up from the cow bails with the milk
buckets. He shook hands, even with me,
and we went into the light of the door-
way, and there I first saw those two enor-
mous ears and that kindly bulldog face.
He was young then, lithe and well built,
and beneath his quiet manner was a con-
fidence ready to grapple with the world.
He took us inside with simple propriety.
The earth floor, covered with bags, the
pine furniture, the corrugated-iron walls
suggested to him no need for apology.
He introduced us to his mother and
sister, and then they sat down to tea.
1 didn’t follow all their talk at the
time, but I gathered later on that Tom's
father had died bankrupt, and that that
scrub block, which he’d bought as a specu-
lation, was all the creditors had left them.
Tom had been educating himself. He
gave it up and set out to make a home
for himself, his mother, sister and her
child and continue his education in his
spare time.
“Do you remember what your Dad
said to him about that?” demanded Joe.
“I never forgot it. ‘Nay, lad,’ he said,
‘don’t delude yourself. There’s no leisure
on the land if you’ve got no money.’
“Tom didn’t take no notice of him,
but, my oath, he was right; and that
scrub block soon taught Tom. He slaved
like a bullock, and for years he moved
ahead at such a pace you wouldn’t notice.
Nothing big ever went wrong with him,
but you know how it is on virgin scrub.
It’s enough to break a man’s heart.”
“It didn’t seem to make much differ-
ence to Tom.”
“Ah, yes, it did. 1 watched the lines
come in his face. It didn’t break him ;
I’ll give you that. He was tough. Even
when he got married and the kids came
he still used to talk about education, only
then he’d say he’d keep it till he retired.
“And then what sort of go did he
have? Six blasted months. Six months
and another flaming war comes. Young
Bill goes into the army and the old fel-
low sells his new house and goes back
to the farm to keep it going. Killed
himself, that’s what he done, so that Bill
could stay away and fight.”
“Still, he was the proudest man on two
legs when Bill left,” I said. “I was there,
on the station, and saw him. You’d think
he’d won the V.C.”
u'T'HAT’S the sort he was. Couldn’t go
1 himself, so he did the next-best thing.
He tried hard to go last time, you know,
but when he got to the recruiting office
the sergeant told him to go home again,
not to be a darned fool- —a man of his
age with three women and three children
dependent on him. So he comes home
to work his guts out so that others could
go. Me, if you want to know.”
I was silent.
“You heard of that?” challenged Joe.
“I heard something, but never got the
rights of it. I must’ve been over there
at the time.”
“Well, I’m telling you. It’s not a story
I’m too proud of, but it does me good to
get it off me chest at times.
“I should’ve been over there with you
from the jump, but you know how it is.
I’d just got me block and got married
and wanted to settle down a bit before
going to any war. 1 told myself that the
block’d go back to scrub if I left it, but
I knew I was just kidding meself, and it
started to prey on me mind. I got as
raw as a cut snake about it.
“One Saturday afternoon I was in here
having a drink. Tom was at the other
end of the bar, drinking quietly with
some bloke he knew. I don’t know how
it started, but someone began to poke
borak at me. I’d had too much to drink,
and that made it worse. I swore I’d
go that moment if someone would work
me block while I was away. There was
dead silence, then Tom turned round and
looked at me. ‘l’ll do it,’ he says. Then I
said what I still don’t like to think about.
I didn’t look at him, but I told the bar I
wouldn’t have no Hun running the place.
“I don’t know if you ever saw Tom
wild. I hadn’t before, and by jees it made
me suddenly sober. He never flared up ;
he just went quite cold-looking. ‘You’re
going to be sorry for that,’ he says, and
he invites me down to the creek.
“I was as sober as a cricket by then
and he saw I was hesitating and came
straight up to me and smacks me in the
dial. Everything was so quiet in the bar
you could hear the tap drippin’. There
must’ve been fifty there, and they were
just watching me. There was nothing
else for it.”
Joe took a long drink as if he were
rinsing the memory of that affair.
“We went down to that flat by the
willows. They made a ring and we took off
our coats, I could see from the look in
Tom’s eyes that this wasn’t going to be
any picnic. It wasn’t. I should’ve been
man enough to apologise, because he
didn’t have a chance.”
I looked at Joe reminiscently. Tom
had been strong, but Joe in those days
had had the strength of an elephant.
“The trouble was, he wouldn’t give in.
I had to butcher ’im to finish it. There
wasn’t any cheering. The crowd just
broke up in silence. I felt so small I
could have smashed the lot.
< ‘ A FTER that, of course, I ’ad to go. I
Fa didn’t see him before I went, but one
of the first letters I got on the other side
was from him. He wrote as if nothing
had ever happened and we were the good
cobbers we’d always been. He said the
block was looking well. It wasn’t till
later that I found out he was looking
after it for me.”
Joe drained his glass. “It was the sort
of thing that Tom Pfeiffer would do,” he
said. “The place was looking a picture
when I came back. He had what came off
it, of course, so he didn’t lose anything.”
I looked at Joe curiously, but I could
see he believed every word he said.
“Didn’t lose anything,” 1 repeated,
“Oh no!”
Joe looked at me, a sudden spasm of
doubt in his eyes. “You’re kidding,”
he said.
“No, I’m not.”
“Who told you he lost anything?”
“His missus, and I know it w*as
dinkum, because he was there and didn’t
deny it. The only thing he wouldn’t have
was when she said five hundred a year.
‘Break it down, Mum,’ he said.”
“How would a man lose five hundred
a year on my place?”
“I’m not saying it was five hundred,”
I reminded him. “It was something,
though. Look at the way he developed it
while you were away and the crops it
grew when you came back. He
must have put a pile of, super,
into it. I thought you knew.”
“How would I know? He
always told me he’d made a
profit.”
THE glasses were empty, so I called
for another round. At last, when the
barman had gone to the other end, Joe
looked at the window and said reflec-
tively “That must’ve been why he made
such heavy going after the war. I never
could make it out. I went ahead, while
he seemed stuck in the sand, and, by
rights, it ought to have been the other
way round, judging by what we were be-
fore. Ain’t much wonder he didn’t get
the carrot. Feel like another?”
I shook my head, and we moved to
the door.
“Oh, well, so long. See you next
Saturday.”
I looked at him in surprise. “Aren’t
you going to the V.D.C.?”
“No. Changed me mind.”
“What in the name of hell for?”
Joe looked crestfallen. “Oh, I dunno,”
he muttered. “Never made up me mind
to it, you know.”
I knew all right, and I wasn’t sur-
prised to see him a few days later work-
ing on old Tom’s block. “Keeping it
right for Bill,” he said.
“MY COAT, BRIDGET!”
By MARGARET TRIST.
t ‘ K I O, I tell you,” said my Aunt
B r idie firmly. “I give in on
I ] most things, but my foot goes
down on this. A man of your
age wanting to go traipsing at this time
of the night'”
The dull yellow light from the lamp
shone on Aunt Bridie’s hideous red dress-
ins-gown. Her hair was divided
innumerable thin plaits tied tightly with
tape; on her forehead curling pins
clustered. She turned the lamp to its
full height. “You don’t leave this house
tonight,” she decreed.
But my grandfather was already
dressed, and he was not listening to Aunt
Bridie, his ears alert only to the sounds
that rose outside. The siren on the
fire engine shrilled. Men shouted. Small
boys whooped. Dogs barked. A clamor-
ing and a clanging resounded through
the night.
“My coat, Bridget,” demanded Grand-
father.
“You can’t have it,” said Aunt Bridie.
“Well, then, I’ll go without it,” retorted
Grandfather. “But maybe some day you’ll
remember”
Far off there was a loud crash.
“O dear!” fumed Grandfather. “That
sounded like the roof going already. Get
my coat, there’s a girl.”
“Perhaps it was only a tank that burst,”
suggested Aunt Bridie, going unwillingly
for the coat.
“The water will put the fire out at
that rate,” said Grandfather gloomily.
“I don’t know why you’ve got to go
running off to every fire there is,” Aunt
Bridie sighed as she guided his stiff arms
into the coat sleeves. “Anyone would
think you’d be tired of fires by this.”
“I haven’t missed one for years”—
Grandfather was proud—“not since the
time the Royal was burned. That was
the night. They swore we wouldn’t
save anything. We did though. There
was a well at the back, and we hauled
up buckets and passed them along the
lines like mad men. Most of the build-
ing went but we managed to save the bar.
That was a night.”
There was a -sudden hissing and angry
spluttering.
“The hoses!” exclaimed Grandfather,
“Quick, let me go or I’ll miss the lot.”
We followed my grandfather outside
and helped him down the stairs. Aunt
Bridie put his stick in his hand. “Do
take care,” she besought him.
Shouting people streamed past on the
roadway. My grandfather called loudly.
An answering hail came from the road,
“It’s Tom Williams,” he called excitedly.
“Hey, wait on, Tom! I’m coming,
Where is it?”
“Seems to be over behind Munroe’s
place. Have a mind for that guttering,
These roads are none too good.”
They disappeared in the darkness, their
voices drowned by the sounds which
eddied round them.
“O dear,” said Aunt Bridie. “Good-
ness only knows when he’ll be home.”
We sat together on the top step and
watched what we could of what was hap-
pening. Flames from the fire leaped
against the black sky. In turn smoke
blotted out the flames only to have them
pome .shooting- through again. Some-
times there was a loud report, followed
by a burst of sparks. When the fire
blazed up the town was illumined in its
light; the galvamsed-iron roofs shone,
windows glowed.
Aunt Bridie si § hed - 1 dont llke
watching a fire,” she said; “but I don’t
nol r t 0 wat^ k eit r-
£*2*.
a J h and just a little
£ xdted xhe fire was evidently large
enough to give pleasure, but not im-
portant enough to distress them unduly,
“Can you hear what they’re saying?”
as ked Aunt Bridie. “Maybe it’s not a
house, after all. 1 don’t like small fires
to be a house. There’s things that get
burnt in small houses that can’t be re-
placed.” She grew quiet, and I knew she
was thinking of her own treasures, the
garnering of forty-odd years that of a
surety could not be found anywhere else
in the world but in the box where she
kept her oddments.
The flames leapt and were beaten
down. They leapt again only to die
away. We watched, but only an occa-
sional flicker shot upwards. The stream
of people went quietly homewards. Soon
there were only stragglers. We peered
anxiously into the darkness,
“He should come,” said Aunt Bridie,
“I know he wouldn’t leave till the last,
but seems to me it’s all over.”
There was quietness. The smell of dust
and smoke lingered in the air. The fire
engine came clanging along the road.
Aunt Bridie stood up. “We’d better go
and find him,” she said. “Perhaps he’s
fallen down somewhere and can’t get
up. He’s all right once he’s on his feet,
but if he’s down he’s settled. I don t
hold with him running off to every tinpot
fire. This town doesn’t go a fortnight
in the summer without a fire, and no
matter how big or how small it is your
grandfather must be there.” She went
cautiously down the stairs, feeling for
each one in the darkness. The fire en-
gine drew level and came to a stop,
“Bridget,” roared my Grandfather,
“These boys gave me a lift home. Come
and help me find the gate.”
“Spare me!” exclaimed Aunt Bridie
and went hurrying forward.
The firemen assisted him from his
exalted position. His curses fell cheer-
fully on the night. The fire engine con-
tinned on its way. Aunt Bridie steered
him up the path. Together we hauled
him up the steps,
“Now,” demanded Aunt Bridie,
“where was the fire?”
“It wasn’t much of a fire,” replied my
grandfather. “Just feed sheds behind
Munroe’s, that’s all. It burnt pretty good
while it was going, but it didn’t last long
because there was nothing else to catch
on to. Fires aren’t what they used to be.
They’re hardly worth getting out of your
bed for. Don’t you wake me any more
when the firebell goes, Bridget.”
We had gone into the kitchen and Ann
Bridie was busy pushing kindling under
the kettle,
“It’s all this building hotels bncKs
and concrete that’s the bother,” said my
grandfather. “I don’t know who thong*
of the idea, but whoever did took a to
of the joy out of living.”


The Bulletin
Vol. 64.—N0. 3290.
Wednesday. March 3, 1943.
ON THE MURMANSK FRONT.
“Because of the absence of a Second Front in Europe, the Red Army is bearing alone the whole burden of the war."—Stalin.
“If what Uncle Joe says is right, what are we doing here?”


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper
“Australia for the White Man”
Directors:
H. K. Prior J. E. Webb
f** H. Prior David Adams
HEAD OFFICE: 252 George Street, Sydney ;
Box 252IBB; ’Phone 87971
Victoria: Newspaper House. 247-249 Collins
Street, Melbourne.
Queensland: 239 Adelaide Street. Brisbane.
Westralia : 33 Barrack Street, Perth.
New Zealand: Nathan’s Buildings (optx
_ G.P.0.), Wellington.
London: 1 Hare Place, 47 Fleet Street,
London, E.C.4.
AMERICAN TRENDS.
Mr. R. J. F. Boyer, of A.8.C., returned
from some trans-Pacific conference or
other with the report that “isolationism”
in the United States is “dead.” Accord-
ing to Mr. Boyer, post-war American
participation in world affairs is univer-
sally accepted in principle; but one
school of thought holds that it should be
entered upon “merely from the point of
view of America’s national interests” while
another would embrace the “opportunity
of carrying forward the best ideals of
Americanism into the world at large by
acting in unison with the United Nations.”
In other words, there is a conflict be-
tween Americans who agree with Mr.
Boyer as to what their country’s post-
war policy should be and other Ameri-
cans who differ frorii Mr. Boyer ; and
Mr. Boyer will be reduced to watching
it from afar.
Mr. Boyer’s judgment was astray when
he and the other A.B.C. gentlemen de-
cided that the public was hungry for
A.B.C. journalism, and it is just possible
that as an interpreter of American opinion
he may be wrong. The ink had scarcely
dried on his interpretation thereof when
the papers published a very different
account straight from headquarters. The
Washington correspondent of the “Chris-
tian Science Monitor” wrote that “the
President’s New Deal faces a revolt which
may have serious international conse-
quences.” Opposition in Congress had
become “so strong that even post-war
planning is opposed because the Admin-
istration favors it.”
Partisanship will possibly defeat a new
international order or a League of Nations,
as it did in 1919.
Washington observers believe that if
elections were held there would be a
Republican landslide.
And although its Mr. Joseph Harsch
went off the rails in Australia, temporarily
demoralised by the flatteries of a scared
flapper press, the “Monitor” is an unusu-
ally sober and well-informed paper.
Even before the November polls it was
obvious that the President’s influence
was slipping. And before the 77th Con-
gress went out of business it surrendered
to popular protests against White House
proceedings to the extent of refusing to
consider the Third War-Powers Bill,
which, opponents objected, would have
empowered the President “to suspend
tariff and immigration laws at his
pleasure,” and intimating in plain terms
that all non-essential costs of government
“should be slashed to the bone.”
From the moment the new Congress
met opponents of the New Deal (now in
a majority in the House) made their
power felt. By the action they took in
the affair of Mr. Ed Flynn they rendered
it impossible for that gentleman to be
sent to Australia as Minister and Mr.
Roosevelt’s personal representative. This
they followed by cancelling a free-postage
privilege granted by the Government to
certain of its civilian employees (nearly
3,000,000, they declare, though Mr.
Roosevelt protested in December that
the number was 2,500,000), and by
nullifying a Presidential order limit-
ing annual incomes to $25,000, exclu-
sive of taxes. It was alleged against
this ukase that it had been taken from
the 1928 Communist platform, and,
though it is impossible to imagine
a man like Mr. Roosevelt going to Com-
munists for inspiration, the allegation
produced a great effect.
For Communists are in desperately bad
odor in the United States. Of this there
are many signs, among them being the
deportation proceedings against Bridges,
which were practically forced by public
opinion on a Government very sym-
pathetic with Labor-unionism; the
Wretched vote polled at the November
elections in New York, supposed to be a
Communist stronghold, and with a popu-
lation of nearly 14,000,000 (the Com-
munists failed by 4000 votes to get the
50,000 required to give them electoral-
law status as a party), and the hatred and
contempt which pursue Browder, of
passport-fraud notoriety, and which
swell into a roar every time the Com-
munist leader issues a pronunciamento
or makes a public appearance. So far
the American public has drawn a dis-
tinction between American Communists
and Russians fighting for their father-
land, but there is increasing criticism of
Moscow policy.
This has been indicated, though not
emphasised, in American cables pub-
lished in Australia. While the tide of
Russian victories was flowing strongly,
the Soviet embassy at Washington “circu-
lated an English translation of a ‘Pravda’
article claiming that the Baltic States and
Bessarabia are legally parts of Russia.”
The New York “Times” was quoted as
saying that the article had “aroused great
interest in diplomatic circles, because the
claim was previously asserted only by
implication.” The reactions of other
newspapers not so kind to Moscow were
not stated, but it may be taken for
granted that they were unfavorable. In-
deed some mordant critic is sure to have
pointed out that the annexation of
Latvia, Estonia and Lithuania would
violate the Atlantic Charter and the
Anglo-Russian alliance, and that Britain
and the Dominions, by virtue of
their membership of the League, which
they are still financing, are committed to
support the political integrity and terri-
torial independence of the three little
republics. American newspapers had
already given a great deal of attention
to the civil war in Yugoslavia and its
effect on the political future in Europe.
An extract from an article written by
William Philip Simms for the Scripps-
Howard papers is typical:
The duly-installed Government of Yugo-
slavia is now in exile in London. Back in
Yugoslavia it is represented by its Minister
of War, General Michailovich, now carry-
ing on guerrilla warfare against the Axis.
Opposed to him, and opposed to King Peter
II in London, are the so-called Partisans.
They, too, are fighting the Axis, but at the
same time they are fighting Michailovich.
The Partisans are sponsored by Moscow
and led by Communists, who charge that
King Peter and his Government in exile
are stooges of the British. Should the
Yugoslav formula now spread to France,
and one by one to the other invaded
countries, the United Nations would face
a dangerous, if not impossible, situation.
If, in spite of all this hamstringing, they
finally defeated the Axis, they would be
confronted by an entire continent in or
bordering on revolution.
Before the Darlan affair came to its
bloody close, it was announced that Mos-
cow had protested to Britain against the
employment of the admiral. Like the
“Pravda” article and Stalin’s strange
statement to the Red Army on the occa-
sion of its 25th anniversary (“Because
of the absence of a Second Front in
Europe the Red Army is bearing
alone the whole burden of the war”)
this was injudicious, to say the least.
For the President had pointed out,
with universal acceptance except in
Leftist circles, that Darlan was em-
ployed to save time and “American,
British and French lives,” otherwise cer-
tain to be lost in “mopping up” in French
Morocco and Algeria, and also because
Darlan, as has been demonstrated —by,
among other things the arrival in the
U.S.A. of the French warships from
Dakar, bloodlessly handed over in Dar-
lan’s brief period—was the only French-
man in sight who could deliver the goods.
It has since been stated that the Soviet
Government has denounced General
Michailovich to the Yugoslav Govern-
ment in exile as a traitor “collaborating
with the Axis.”
American views of this development
have not been communicated to these
parts. Australians have, however, been
permitted to learn from American
sources that the Polish Government in
exile, op the authority of its Prime Min-
ister, General Sikorski, is having “very
great difficulties with Russia.” To the
London correspondent of the New York
“Times” the general said he had pro-
tested to Moscow against Russian inter-
vention “in the internal affairs of the
Polish State.” Things had been done “at
the Soviet-Polish frontier” which con-
cern “not only the Polish problem, but
the question of peace in central and east-
ern Europe and the whole attitude of the
Soviet towards democracy.”
Communist propagandists have been
dropped into Poland by parachute. A
secret Russian radio in Poland is con-
tinually appealing for a general Polish up-
rising and demanding that I issue orders
tor a revolt. I cannot issue such orders,
because it would mean drowning Poland
in a sea of blood. Now isn’t the time.
Perhaps in intelligent anticipation of
the cry from General Sikorski’s heart
a “noted Ukrainian political leader and
playwright” wrote a Moscow article an
extract from which was published in Lon-
don. It was an attack on “a big group
of Polish emigrants in London and
America,” of whom it was alleged that
they “not only don’t think about the
sufferings of the Polish people, but try
their utmost to shake the United Front
of freedom-loving peoples.”
Before this new crease on Uncle
Sam’s forehead began to form, Madame
Chiang Kai-shek made a passionate plea
to Congress for more aid to her suffer-
ing country. The brave and eloquent
lady’s address could not have been better
timed, and it seems to have produced an
immense impression. Had it been de-
livered at the beginning, instead of at
the close, of a Gallup poll on the ques-
tion “Which country do you think is our
chief enemy?” many more voters would
have replied “Japan.” As it was, 53 per
cent, plumped for Japan and 34 per cent,
for Germany, the rest being undecided,
whereas in Gallup polls taken in May,
1942, and December, 1941, Japan was
named by 28 per cent, and 15 per cent,
respectively, and Germany by 47 per
cent, and 64 per cent.
Which all suggests that the main griev-
ance against the Administration and the
one which may involve it in the worst
of its troubles is its “Beat Hitler First”
strategy. For this a great body of
Americans never cared, and now that
their country is in the fifteenth month
of a war against a treacherous enemy
in every way inferior, with Pearl Harbor,
Luzon, Bataan, Corregidor, Guam and
Wake Island still unavenged and the
Japanese still in the Aleutians, and Russia
obviously able to take care of itself and
giving cause for political disquietude, the
opposition to it grows mightily. If the
“Beat Hitler First” strategy doesn’t yield
substantial results this year, results which
will need to be political as well as mili-
tary, there are sure to be squalls in Con-
gress, which will necessarily keep its ear
to the ground, if not an outright tempest.
No doubt Dr. Evatt, booked for another
visit to Washington, will give lively atten-
tion to the shift of power from the White
House to Congress.
Mr. Roosevelt is now in the third year
of his third term. He has still no rival
on his own side, and in March or April
next year, when the parties will be choos-
ing their candidates, if he wants another
nomination he will assuredly get it. But
unless the war is over or victory is in
sight by “the Tuesday after the first Mon-
day in November,” 1944 looks like
being a Republican year. For Australia
that might mean a Government far less
friendly and considerate to this country
than that of the great Democrat has been.
The Important "Freedom."
Mr. Roosevelt’s “four freedoms” sum
up reasonably well what the war is all
about from the democratic point of view
—the ensuring of a post-war world in
which there will be freedom of religion
and speech (for those who prefer these
particular “freedoms”) and freedom from
want and fear.
The last in the list is the important
one. The others are all implicit in
democracy, however far short of them
democracy has fallen up to now. In any
democracy worthy of the name there has
long been a fairly good allowance of
the first two freedoms. Hard fought for
over the centuries, a fair measure of
freedom of religion and freedom of
speech was already present when this
war that is to ensure them started. Even
in some non-democratic countries there
was some measure of both until the
coming of the dictators put an end to
them.
The present cramping of freedom of
speech and expression is an obvious war-
time necessity. Such surrenders of liberty
often mean an eventual struggle to get
them back ; but in properly constituted
democracies there should not need to be
much of a struggle to get back freedom
of speech. It and freedom of religion
might almost be left to look after them-
selves as natural properties of the ordi-
nary nature of democracy. They make
good general propaganda headlines ; but
because jio people who have once tasted
real democracy and found it good will be
deprived of these freedoms for a minute
longer than absolutely necessary they are
not likely to be in any great danger of
extinction.
Freedom from want is in a different
class. Democracy can’t be credited with
having advanced very far in regard to it.
In fact, until the war came along to
provide more work than there are hands
available to do it, the great blot on the
democratic pattern everywhere was the
number of unemployed. Given econo-
mic planning and distribution on an en-
tirely different basis (which doesn’t mean
the fettering of free enterprise) and a
new and enlightened conception of inter-
dependence, the world can supply
enough to look after that freedom.
Though democracy actually made little
progress on the “want” sector compared
with the advance on the other two fronts
its performance was by no means negli-
gible ; and, like freedom of speech and
religion, freedom from want always has
been, and is, implicit in the nature of
democracy. Even in the worst of the
depression years, though many good
people in English-speaking countries had
a gruelling time and Governments re-
sorting to makeshifts were without
vision, “I am my brother’s keeper” was
accepted as a principle by individuals and
communities alike, and nobody starved.
The reason that the other freedom-
freedom from fear (of attack)—is so
important is that, unlike the rest, it had
for some time been almost entirely over-
looked, and certainly very dangerously
neglected, in the democratic set-up. The
fruit of this is too bitter in the mouth to
need much comment. The proposal for
the brave new world it is hoped to create
when this war is won appears to be that
the democracies will take steps to ensure
freedom from fear to all countries, demo-
cratic or otherwise—some world organi-
sation, apparently; a bigger, bolder and
better League of Nations.
The democracies would do well to
ensure, for a start, freedom from fear
for their own countries. They would do
well to make sure that some grandiose
scheme, which, on the face of it, looks
wonderful —as the League of Nations did
—is not allowed once more, to become a
substitute for defence strong enough to
ensure survival. At the present moment
the idea that the democratic countries—
including Australia —might slip again into
a state of hopeless defencelessness must
seem preposterous; but such an idea
would have seemed preposterous at this
stage of the last war.
After all wars there follows a strong
reaction against war. The longer and
more trying the war the further
the reaction carries. After the last
war it carried so far that now-
three years and six months into
the German war —the democracies have
still a lot of ground to make up,
while meantime carrying on the fight, not
for any Utopian brave new world, but
for their survival. What happened in
Australia —and easily could happen again
—is typical. The war safely over —the
moments of peril in it as bad as any-
thing that threatens now quickly and
completely forgotten—successive Govern-
ments hacked away at the Defence vote,
until at last one arose which, in its won-
derful wisdom, as good as wrecked the
whole Commonwealth defence establish-
ment. It is an ironical comment on how
things have been run that men who were
leading figures in that most foolish of
all Governments are today in im-
portant posts on the home front. It
is a sad comment that a country which
might have entered upon the German
war at least fairly well prepared was
caught without trained men and modern
equipment and (to put it mildly) was
still scratching when the Japanese
struck.
Australia needs to make up its mind
finally now that at least there is not ever
going to be a repetition of these tragic
follies. Whatever part Australia may
take in the well-advertised “post-war re-
construction,” it should look first to its
own defence strength. Above all, this
should be put beyond the whims of any
set of seat-warming politicians. Instead
of an incompetent Government being
able to tell a sleepy Parliament that it
proposes to abolish national training and
lash into the defence establishment this
should be for decision by the whole
country.
Though splendid things have been
done by Australians thoroughly trained
and equipped the lesson of unprepared-
ness has been bitter. Perhaps it has
had such an effect that when peace
does come the continuing of the
strongest possible defence will follow
as a matter of course. That is only a
perhaps. On past performance, the trend
is much more likely to be in the oppo-
site direction —towards reinheriting the
old fool’s paradise, complete with all
other “freedoms” except freedom from
fear and the means of ensuring this free-
dom.


PLAIN ENGLISH
No Anzac or Singapore Day.
From “South of the Line”:
Making a virtue of political necessity, the
British Government took charge of the Red
Army Day celebrations in the U..K., and did
the job very cleverly. In the Prime Minister’s
absence, through an illness regretted by all
except the enemy, Mr. Eden was the star per-
former, and colleagues came to light with effec-
tive reminders of the immense British help
given to Russia at great sacrifice, notably in
men and ships—from the beginning of
October, 1941, to the end of December, 1942,
2947 tanks, over 3000 aircraft, 70,000,000
rounds of small-arms ammunition, 50,000 tons
of rubber and vast supplies of machine tools,
metals, small arms, boots, clothing materials
and trucks.
All this and more spoilt the Communist
party’s efforts to steal the show, and the Corns,
had other causes for chagrin. Renewing their
overtures to the Labor party, they were snubbed
with even greater emphasis than on previous
occasions, and were acidly reminded that,
“before Russia entered the war they dishonestly
exploited every possible grievance, not only in
the workshops but even among the people who
sought refuge in underground shelters.” Labor
supporters were asked to “visualise the wide
difference between the prospect now before us
and the unrelieved agony which the world
would be enduring if the Labor policy of
standing up to aggression had been submerged
by that of the Communist party.”
Snubbed also was the Communists’ new
champion, Beaverbrook. Rising in the Lords,
that newspaper baron, who after the war will
have to answer for his part in leaving Malaya
with a miserable 150 ’planes, largely Brewster
Buffaloes and Wirraways, demanded that his
hard-pressed country should undertake two
immediate invasions—“we must now invade
North-western Europe and we must invade the
Mediterranean, too.” According to the Mel-
bourne “Herald’s” London correspondent, this
foolish old proprietor of vulgar newspapers
not only got no support from any quarter
but was “sharply attacked, even by the Labor
party’s spokesman, Lord Listowel, who had
come from the army,” and “stingingly re-
buked by the Lord Chancellor.”
Lord Simon slashingly attacked him for
apparently overlooking what the British
Navy, Army and Air Force had done in
drawing off the Germans from Russia. De-
claring that “Second Front” was mislead-
ingly used as a catchpenny phrase and
slogan, Lord Simon said, addressing the
peers, “I hope you will help to get rid of
mere slogans based on ill-informed clamor,
and will not hesitate to denounce any
influence which is stoking up this clamor.”
In Australia there was no need for Labor
Ministers to take charge of the Red Army Day
proceedings. They left that job to the same
old mob of Communists, trade-union bosses
and Parlor Pinks, coming in as humble instru-
ments In Sydney there were a Sunday pro-
cession, Domain meetings and another m the
Town Hall, and Tuesday brought a demonstra-
tion in Martin-place. Before and after and in
between, writing boys and radio uncles let
themselves go, A.B.C. having a sort of Red
Army Week of its own. Mingled with all the
rant and gas and gaiters (Bishop Burgmann
supplied the gaiters) there were the usual de-
mands for a Second Front in Europe “to beat
the Japs,” and flags were flown on public
buildings at the instance of Premier McKell.
As is the way with “comrades,” the business
was sinfully overdone. People remarked with
indignation and shame that there had been
no Singapore Day commemoration, no public
message of pity and hope to the 16,000 Aus-
tralians among the captured garrison, nor any
Tobruk, El Alamein, Papua, 8.E.F., Royal
Navy, R.A.F. or R.A.A.F. Day. Those whose
memories were still bitter recalled that the
Anzac Day ceremonies had been cancelled in
response to an appeal from Mr. Curtin, and
Old Diggers of the R.S.L. moodily turned up
his words.
“The fact that the enemy is on our
threshold [he still is, Mr. Curtin insists,
and 40 hours before the Sunday proces-
sion a hostile ’plane was over Sydney]
will make it desirable that any large con-
gregations of people outside the normal
should be discouraged. Accordingly it is
the desire of the Government that marches
of returned soldiers through the streets
and other outside gatherings at memorial
services should not be organised.”
As Premier and Minister controlling the
Police Department, Mr. McKell did some dis-
couraging on his own account. A week later,
with Mr. McKelTs sanction, the streets leading
to the Domain were given over to a vulgar
May Day procession, and, as “S. M. Herald”
recorded, “25,000 people attended the subse-
quent meeting in the Domain,” where shouts
for a Second Front in Europe “to beat the
Japs” rent the atmosphere—though at one
stage, as A.B.C. petulantly noted, “the voices
of the speakers were drowned by the roar of
low-flying aeroplanes engaged in ill-timed war
exercises.”
In Sydney the official verdict is: Reds, first;
Diggers, Tommies, seamen and airmen, not in
tiic race.
Digger Pensions.
The N.S.W. branch of the Diggers’
League is carrying on the fight to get
pensions increased by 50 per cent.
At Canberra Repatriation Minister Frost
stated that the Government’s proposed
increase was based on a 20 per cent,
increase in the cost of living since the
old pension rates were fixed. Visiting
that intermittent habitat of the mighty,
N.S.W. Diggers’ president Col. A. W.
Hyman dug out of the Parliamentary
Library figures to show that the increase
in cost of living is 47 per cent.
On the latter figure the Diggers are
pressing their claim, with a special regard
for Digger widows. They quote such
cases as that of a widow with two
children receiving £2 19s. 6d. per week,
The widow of a man killed in industry
in N.S.W. is entitled to £BOO workers’
compensation, a further £5O for the
children, then £1 10s. a week from the
Commonwealth and £1 a week (10s. for
each child) from the State. Digger
widows, of course, get no large lump-
sum compensation.
The 100 per cent, incapacitated service
man (not those classified “totally perma-
nently incapacitated”) receives only £2 2s.
per week, with 18s. for his wife and 7s.
6d. for each child—total, £3 155., or
£1 3s. below the basic wage for the Com-
monwealth. With a 50 per cent, increase
the total would be £5 12s. 6d. For a
similar case the Canadian Government
pays £8 Bs. Bd.
Other Canadian-Australian rates:-
Canadian. Australian.
Single men .. .. £4 18 10 £2 2 0
Married men .. .. 6 11 9 3 3 0
First child .. .. 0 19 11 0 10 0
Second child .. ..0 16 0 0 7 6
Another point the N.S.W. Diggers
make is that service pay has increased
per cent, compared with 1914-18
On these figures the Diggers case will
take some answering.
.... , ... , ..
The Allied Works Council*
Dear Bulletin, — An Inquiring Stranger
listening to Joseph Silver Collings on the
air on a recent evening would have con-
eluded that before the day of the Allied
Works Council there was no such thing
as heavy construction in this country,
Shades of John Forrest, a statesman of
vision, and C. Y. O’Connor, an engi-
neer of genius, who, over 40 years ago,
when the population of Westralia was
only 170,000 or so, gave their country
what is still a world wonder in long-
distance water-supply!
To my mind, the A.W.C. is superfluous
and useless.
Before it was formed the Army named
the necessary works and existing State
organisations carried them out. The
Alice Springs-Tennant Creek road was
completed before the organisation headed
by Queensland’s old benefactor Mr.
Theodore was set up.
Big works enumerated by “Silver”
have been built not by the A.W.C. but
by the same men who have been doing
that class of work for the States for
years, reinforced by younger men who
have mostly been untried until lately,
The names of the Queensland engi-
neers Guthrie and Middleton will for ever
be linked with the Commonwealth’s north-
south road, while Mathieson, Dave Hall,
Hogan, Clem Wilson, Bruce Mclntosh,
Dd 6 * Noel Kemp, C. C. Day and
Crossthwaite have done splendid wor
on defence woiks of despeiate uigency.
The sa^~., ta k, CC L U d ’f ?, 0 ot^e
States. Silver has probably never
heard of these engineers. Yours etc.,
W. T. B. (Q.).
* *
.... . B e „
Wings and Pedal Sets.
Australia
~5 S f „
had the Outback covered from Cion-
curry to Wyndham, Broken Hill to Port
Hedland, The Alice to Kalgoorlie, with
va | uab j e wireless and aerial communica-
tjons
Ju j t as a sample of the’work done it
can be stated that no fewer than 52 ,907
telegrams went through the six bases in
the y ear ended 31/12/’42. Meantime,
the succoring of the suffering in iso-
lated places went on, the F.D.S.A.
aerial ambulances making 234 flights
covering 96,529 miles. It would have
been more had not the Wyndham ’plane
been lost by fire. In addition, there are
medical talks daily on the air, advice
being given to lonely mothers and the
mates of sick stockmen—advice and men-
tal relief.
The pedal sets, being short-wave, are
capable of being heard by the Japs, so
some restrictions had to be imposed, but
generally they have carried on without
great inconvenience. The advent of the
enemy also made it necessary to move
the Wyndham and Port Hedland bases
inland. Both escaped damage from the
air raids.
outstaying things about
the F.D.S.A. is that people m places far
(Continued on page 8.)
PILGRIM’S PROGRESS (No. 2).
“What’s this I hear about your draftees stopping at the E-qua-tor?”


f
PUBLIC TRUSTEE
Acts As
Trustee, Executor,
Administrator, Agent
or Attorney.
Under STATE GUARANTEE.
Absolute Security.
Estates efficiently and
economically managed.
WRITE OR CALL FOR
FREE BOOKLET.
19 O’Connell St. (Box 7A, G.P.0.),
Sydney.
W. B. Geddes, Public Trustee.
DANIEL
CRAWFORDS
GENUINE
OLD SCOTCH WHISKY
5
E
s
LOTIO
EYE
For Inflamed Eyes and Eyelids
SOLD EVERYWHERE
H. A. Rose & Co. Pty. Ltd- Kina St., Sydney
Is Your Rest
Disturbed?
Correct tlie cause of sleepless nights;
days of misery, discomfort, and incon-
venience by taking a course of
DOAN’S
BACKACHE
KIDNEY PILLS
Don’t delay—neglect is dangerous.
Doan’s Pills will soon put you right.
SOLD BY ALL CHEMISTS
AND STOREKEEPERS.
Foster-McClellan Co.,
Proprietors,
15 Hamilton St., Sydney.
from its operational area keep it going.
Thus, the State of Victoria controls and
supports the Wyndham base. There is
a Federal subsidy of £7500 a year (it
seems pitifully small; three times as
much was flung away on the A.W.C. “in-
vestigation” in Sydney), and various
amounts come from charitable bequests.
In his annual report, Dr. George Simp-
son, the honorary secretary, who also
serves at a hospital (R.A.A.F.) in the
north, remarks that
The Inland is a great training ground for
the lads in our fighting forces. Though
they may often complain about conditions
they are learning a great deal about their
country and its problems. Their thoughts,
if not their steps, will turn to it in future
years. Development on an unprecedented
scale is now assured, and in that the aerial
medical service must play a bigger part
than ever before.
Australia still has pioneers worth a
salute.
POLITICAL POINTS
The McLeay measure authorising the
sending of militiamen to any place on
the map by National Security regulation
had a swift and unexpected finish in the
House. Fadden moved for a first read-
ing. With Curtin’s voice leading. Min-
isterialists shouted “No,” and, with Per-
kins, Wilson and Blackburn voting with
them, the “Noes” had it by 34 to 29. It
was all over in a few minutes.
Members grinned when Hutchinson
explained why he had been absent from
the division on National Security Amend-
ment—-he hadn’t heard the summons.
They laughed aloud when, at a safe in-
terval after the bill had been dished,
McCall sent a wire saying he was de-
tained on “Rationing Commission busi-
ness” and “would appreciate you [Guy]
arrange pair for me to support
Fadden in event Coles voting with Oppo-
sition —have arranged pair Coles on all
other issues.” Coles voted with the
Opposition, and, with all the Labor
members voting or pairing against the
bill, no pair could have been got for
McCall. Had he been there “to support
Fadden,” he would have done so only if
sure of being on the losing side. Can-
berra has no illusions about William
Victor McCall.
Dr. Evatt’s mission abroad was an-
nounced the day after Australia learned
that two R.A.A.F. men were missing
among 25 lost when an army transport
’plane crashed in the Atlantic, and that 24
of 40 were killed and injured when a pas-
senger ’plane crashed at Lisbon. Which
shows that men face risk in setting out
for distant parts on their country’s busi-
ness in war-time. Like Owen Dixon,
who is returning to Australia for con-
sultations, the Attorney-General could
have remained in comparative ease and
safety on the High Court Bench. He
chose a much more strenuous part, and,
in the face of all sorts of difficulties, has
done a good job. Short of the P.M.,
who may follow him “some time,” no
member of the Government could com-
mand more attention abroad.
Dr. Evatt will go overseas leaving the
Commonwealth Powers Bill apparently
doomed. Only the two N.S.W. Houses,
the one in Queensland and the Tas-
manian, Victorian and S.A. Assemblies
have passed it, and Dunstan’s Chamber
made its consent conditional on general
acceptance, knowing that the Tas. Leg.
Council had heaved the thing out. And
a Westralian Assembly select committee
has recommended a sheaf of amend-
ments, which may be taken by the other
shop as a hint to do what the old gents
in Hobart did.
Though versed in all the dreary lore of
trade-union wrangles, the A.C.T.U. has a
lot to learn about the. Commonwealth
Constitution, and its information about
the reception accorded to the Common-
wealth Powers Bill is inexact. “In view
of the opposition by State Governments”
(there has been none —even Playford’s
Government approved), it “requests the
Federal Government immediately to sub-
mit a referendum on such amendments
as will permit all after-war problems
to be dealt with without a limitation
period.” It couldn’t be done imme-
diately, a delay of at least two months
being required after referendum bills
have been prepared, debated and passed
“by an absolute majority of each
House” ; and in the present temper of
the people it shouldn’t be done at all.
A.C.T.U. support, plus that of Ward,
Dedman, Don Cameron, Calwell and
Falstein, would kill any referendum. If
the Commonwealth Powers Bill goes (and,
seeing that it contemplates an indefinite
prolongation of State Governments and
Parliaments, it would be no great loss)
the Commonwealth Government can get
all it is after by exercising its financial
powers, particularly those relating to
taxation.
So far Lang has had much the better
of his argument with the State A.L.P.
executive (“The Fight Is On”). Morgan,
M.H.R., who precariously holds the Reid
Federal seat, was “snubbed and cen-
sured” at a Reid Electoral Council meet-
ing, what time the Big Fellow, in silent
majesty, sat on the platform. The “loyalty
pledge” is not to be signed until the Big
DOO-EEN’ THE CANBERRA WALK.
“Mr. L. W. Brockington, K.C., of Canada, says he is impressed with the ‘magnificent
tranquillity’ of Canberra. It reminds him
of Victoria, B.C. ‘One day a dog pursued a
cat through Victoria’s main street. They walked.’”
Fellow’s Fight is over, and perhaps not
then.
The A.1.F., the R.A.A.F. and the
R.A.N. are pressing for five days off at
Easter-—no, it’s the A.C.T.U. which is
pressing for five days off for unionists,
with “penalty rates” as the alternative.
The A.C.T.U. is also pressing for an ex-
tension of the franchise to all girls and
boys of 18 to 20 —not necessarily because
Sydney factory flappers have shown an
impressive capacity for striking.
The generosity of the English-speaking
countries was exemplified in the speeches
and in the messages sent to Stalin on
the Red Army’s 25th birthday. From
Roosevelt down there was no stinting
of praise. If, in return, there was a word
of praise for British and American help,
got to Russia in the face of incredible
difficulties, it wasn’t reported in Austra-
lia, and surely such an unusual event
would have been reported.
On Tuesday, February 23, it was
mournfully noted that in the Sydney area
1200 female textile workers, 80 female
metal workers, 22 crane-drivers, 40
butchers and 120 waitresses were on
strike. Mr. McKell, the Sydney Premier,
should have been interested, but if ne
was he gave no sign. Perhaps he was
too busy seeing that his Dog-racing Min-
ister was attending a Red Army celebra-
tion and that Soviet flags were flown on
public buildings.
The Dunstan Government, asked by
Labor members for a judicial inquiry into
the activities of Red union bosses, de-
cided it was a matter for the Common-
wealth Government. So it is, in a way,
but since, as Dunstan well knows, the
Commonwealth Government won t do
anything, it is a matter for the Victorian
Parliament if the Victorian Parliament
is not a sham. The persons mentioned
are Victorians, and there are many Vic-
torian members capable of serving on a
select committee and with little to do.
Commonwealth Arbitration J udge
O’Mara was scathing on the subject of
Ward’s Women’s Employment Board.
Certain of its awards, he said, had puzzled
both employers and employees, and the
one under discussion was “vague, loosely
drawn —scissors and paste were used but
not enough scissors.” One result of the
W.E.B. performances is that the Arbi-
tration Court’s long-standing line of de-
marcation between men and women
workers has been upset and women
workers under arbitration awards find
newcomers under W.E.B. awards earning
as much as 30s. a week more. Naturally
there is resentment, and a ripe field is
provided for merchants of strikes and
stoppages.
The House at Canberra knocked off
for an hour and a half on Thursday night
to see a Moral Rearmament “Revue for
National Defence” staged in the Parlia-
mentary dining-room. A Moral Rearma-
ment revue went the rounds in the U.S.A.,
and a certain Major-General Hershey
got into dreadful trouble for ruling
that “Moral Rearmament” was “an essen-
tial project justifying draft deferment.”
Nasty people pointed out that the revue
artists were “mostly young Britons” —
28 were named —“who prefer play-acting
to shouldering guns.” The major-general
was overruled, and the play-actors,
headed by the aptly-nicknamed “Bunny”
Austin, are to go into the army.
Sydney “Sun” published a “special”
alleging that “members are certain to be
disturbed at what was described in Can-
berra as a needless insult ’ to the Red
Army. The alleged “insult” lay in not
sending Blarney or some other high offi-
cer to take the salute at a procession in
Sydney. The Army wearily explained
that it was a civilian demonstration at
which no salute was taken. This was
admitted by the Friendship with Russia
League. But who started the “insult”
talk and for what purpose?
“The United Ex-Service Men’s and
Women’s Political Association of Aus-
tralia” got off to a good start in Mel-
bourne, with a few friendly words from
the “Herald.” Having its first public
meeting on Singapore Day, it didn’t for-
get the Eighth Division, as did so many
politicians and editors, but gave every
sign of deep feeling when the chairman,
W. H. Anderson, referred to “our sol-
dier prisoners in Malaya, in their silence
demanding that Australia free itself from
party pettiness and commit itself without
further delay to a total war effort.” The
party is in dead earnest about repatria-
tion, and meanwhile is “to press in all
ways for a national non-party Govern-
ment,” and for “the welding of the
A.I.F. and the A.M.F. into one army
for service anywhere.” The “Herald” sees
a future for it (and other people see in
the “Herald” article a possible candidate
from the “Herald” office) if it “makes
its franchise wide enough to include all
men and women of goodwill,” and alters
its title accordingly.
Lang will have to strike Falstein’s
name off the list of antis on his Con-
scription Barometer. Maxie voted for
the extension of militia service beyond
Australian territories on the ground that
“the bill is adequate for present needs,”
and left the impression that, if his A.L.P.
masters decide on some future occasion
that it has ceased to be adequate, Maxie
will be on hand with his vote —if he has
one. Always the gentleman, Maxie ac-
cused Menzies of having, as an Advisory
War Councillor, “proposed narrower
limits than-those now provided in the
bill.” When Menzies said this was “un-
true and characteristic of the hon.
member,” Maxie ripped out something
about “pig-iron,” and moved on to an-
other phase of the subject.
A Sydney “Herald” reporter, inquiring
about another row at Parramatta girls’
reformatory, received this police answer:
We have received strict instructions from
the Minister for Education, Mr. Evatt, that
no information is to be given to the press.
Evatt denied that he had given such in-
structions. Police Commissioner Mac Kay
to a “Sun” man:
I instructed the police not to make state-
ments or supply records relative to such
disputes. The Police Department has
enough trouble if it minds its own business.
Police Department business is public
business, and so are riots in and escapes
from public reformatories. Obviously
this Commissioner needs measuring for
another hat and other boots.


LOOK Through These Glasses
0(83*42
at Everything Yon Bny!
From now until victory comes, patriotic buying must be the rule.
It will help mightily towards winning the war if we all buy longer-
lasting things—when we must buy at all.
&XibC BATTERIES
Lei this be Your
Wartime Slogan.
PERSONAL ITEMS
Only a little time back Squadron-
Leader Hugo Throssell Armstrong, of
Perth, nephew of Throssell, V.C., and
Katharine Susannah Prichard, was men-
tioned here for having won a bar to his
D.F.C. Now Armstrong is reported miss-
ing in a raid over Europe. He was flying
a Spitfire. He was born in 1916, the
year in which Uncle Hugo (“Jim”) re-
turned to Westralia for a season with his
V.C. and his wounds.
This face belongs to Alfred R.
Code, Director of Armored Fighting
Vehicles Production, the organisation re-
sponsible for the Australian cruiser tank
that is as fast and powerful as anything
of its size in the world and can go almost
anywhere. A note on the Director (B.
10/2/’43) invited Bulletin readers to
find a good Australian name for the
cruiser tanks. An abo. name for thunder
ALFRED R. CODE.
and lightning was suggested. Entries
already received:
“G.G.”: Marooba stands out. It means
thunder and rolls off the tongue, especially
in the plural. Then there are Cumdumbul,
meaning big mountain, and Waroo, place of
hornets.
“T.W.G.”: I suggest Tumbarumba, the
name given their camp by the abos. on
account of the prevalent thunder. It’s still
prevalent, as you’ll find if you go there.
“Des O’N.”: What’s wrong with the
good old Bunyip, fearsome and ferocious?
The monsters we are building could not
be more aptly named.
“G.H.K.”: How would Dooloomai suit?
It means thunder and would shorten easily
to Dooley.
Code himself favors Woomera. Who’s
next?
Hannen Swaffer, Fleet-street’s queerest
card, was lately congratulated by Lon-
don penmen on completion of 40 years
of journalism. Among the congratula-
tions was one from “Silver Birch,” a Red
Indian chief. He congratulated Hannen
through a medium, and Hannen replied
per medium. According to report, Swaf-
fer gets messages through from Conan
Doyle, who informs him that the other
side is much preferable to this.
When in Opposition Ward had the
meanness to insinuate that Pilot-Officer
Mick Grace, of Sydney, who had learned
flying at his own expense, got his rank
because he was the heir to Grace
Brothers, both of whom are dead. Mick
Grace has since proved his worth and
valor many times on active service over
the North Sea and the Pacific, He now
has an heir of his own, born the other
day.
Medical reasons having compelled
Major-Gen. J. M. A. Durrant to turn
in his big job of commanding Queens-
land Lines of Communication Area, the
post goes to Major-Gen. V. P. H. Stantke,
who, as Adjutant-General since 1940, has
made a fine fist of knocking the Austra-
lian Army into solid shape. Stantke, like
other good ones, was schoolmastering be-
fore taking to soldiering. Adjutant of
the 29th Batt. in the 1914-18 show and
later on Monash’s staff, he got himself
into condition for the present affair by
training in England, 1936-37. He’s 56.
Durrant (57) was with the old 13th on
Gallip. and in France. Five times “men-
tioned,” he collected a C.M.G., a D.S.O.
and other honors.
First Australian of this war to be given
command of an R.A.F. operational
station in the United Kingdom, Group-
Captain James Alexander hails from
Brisbane. Now 35, he started with the
R.A.A.F. back in 1929. High posts he
has filled include commanding one of
Australia’s largest operational stations.
A. E. Martin, who used to look after
J.C.W. publicity in the days when Syd-
ney ran to theatre, would risk having an
ear bitten right off if he ventured near
Poverty Point today, he having won
£lOOO first prize in a “Women’s Weekly”
novel competition. A South Australian,
born in Adelaide, he has had one foot
on the Point and the other on the Inky
Way since he was 14 ; he worked for a
while on a paper run by C. J. Dennis, and
has had a shot at pretty well everything in
the show line, including pic-
ture shows and sideshows. If
all else failed him, Martin
could run a school on the
art of tact. In the J.C.W.
job he was a past master at
pacifying temperamental
leading ladies and their oppo-
site numbers, no less touchy
birds to handle. In fact, he’d
be an acquisition at the Peace
Conference, if there ever is
me. A son, Sergeant-
Observer J. R. Martin, is on
the job with the R.A.A.F.
bombers based in England.
It may be some time before
R. W. A. Leeper, latest Aus-
tralian to become a British
ambassador, takes up resi-
dence in the country he’s
appointed to Greece. If
he still holds the post when the war
ends he’ll have a big job for a while
helping feed the people and otherwise
lending a hand on behalf of J. Bull in
their recovery from the particularly
savage conditions imposed on them by
the Germans. By report hundreds of
thousands of Greeks have already died
of starvation. Born in Sydney, educated
at Melbourne Grammar and Trinity and
at Oxford, Leeper had latterly been,
Britain’s Assistant Under-Secretary of
State for Foreign Affairs.
Carl August Berendsen, chosen as
Maoriland’s first High Commissioner to
Australia (the Dominion has hitherto
been represented by a “Tourist and Trade
Commissioner”), was born in Sydney,
educated in M.L. and joined the public
service at 16. He was a rep. cricketer at
22, saw service in Samoa in the 1914-18
war, and on his return became chief clerk
of the Labor Department and Deputy-
Registrar of Industrial Unions. He
studied law at night, graduated M.LL. at
Victoria College (Wellington), and in
1935 (when Labor came into office) was
appointed Permanent Head of the Prime
Minister’s Department. He’s 52.
An American named Conklin Mann,
described as an “amateur genealogist,”
has ferreted out proof that Churchill and
Roosevelt are seventh cousins once re-
moved. Also that Roosevelt and General
MacArthur are sixth cousins once re-
moved ; MacArthur and Churchill are
eighth cousins, and so are Churchill and
U.S, Vice-President Wallace. Isolation-
ist Hamilton Fish, one of Roosevelt’s
opponents, is a fourth cousin once re-
moved of the President. The MacArthur-
Churchill eighth cousinship comes
through a Joseph Farnsworth, an old-
time Massachusetts cooper. In the War
of Independence the Roosevelt ancestor
involved in the relationship with Fish
stayed on the British side, while the re-
lated Fish ancestor fought on the Ameri-
can side, and was one of the signers of
the Declaration of Independence. After
that war the Fish ancestor and related
Roosevelt ancestor decided to forget that
they’d recently been on opposite sides,
with the result that the Fish ancestor was
able to arrange that the related Roose-
velt ancestor should get back the latter’s
confiscated property. As a U.S. paper
comments: “If he’d known what was
coming later he probably wouldn’t have
done it.”
Nymboida (North Coast, N.S.W.)
hydro-electric scheme, one of the most
important and successful of its kind south
of the Line, has acquired A. N. Dawkins,
of Adelaide, as its general manager. A
product of Prince Alfred and Adelaide
University, Dawkins had been with Adel-
aide Electric Supply for 17 years, and
was on the board of S.A. munitions man-
agement area. He takes a B.E. to Graf-
ton, together with a wide grin and a way
of getting things done.
South Australian Hubert Wilkins,
known the world over for his submarine
and other Polar expeditions and for his
beard, has been roped in by the U.S.
War Dept, in the research branch which
has to do with seeing that Uncle Sam’s
fighting forces wear the right togs and
have the right equipment and food for
various climates. He assisted in evolv-
ing a soldier’s uniform for Arctic war-
fare, on the job going into a university
experimental chamber in which freezing
conditions and a snowbank had been
created. He walked up and down for a
couple of hours, finding out what pro-
tection the designed uniform provided.
Having travelled in 78 countries, Wilkins
(knighted 1928) was also able to give
experience to designing uniforms to be
worn by U.S. troops in North Africa.
Likewise for India and thereabouts. “For
thousands of years,” says Wilkins,
“Indians have been wearing turbans.
We thought it was for show or style or
tradition ; but the turban, as a matter of
fact, gives unusual protection under the
weather conditions in India.” Just why
it does hasn’t been decided, but the fact
is being worked on for the benefit of
troops. As Wilkins’s travels include the
jungles of Brazil, Panama and Africa, as
well as the South Pacific islands, he
would have been a handy Australian to
have had about the place to see that
Diggers going north wore the right togs.
Still, he’s doing this for Doughboys.
Bert Beros, the Digger whose “Fuzzy
Wuzzy Angels” verse, a tribute to the
Papuan boys on the Kokoda trail, be-
came widely popular, is fairly well known
about Mt Isa (Q.). He began working
at 17 as a sick-bay attendant in the R.N.
on H.M.S. Malay, served aboard Cour-
ageous before she was converted to air-
craft-carrier, and finally saw the last war
J.E. CASSIDY, K.C.,
As Frith saw him looking near the end
of the marathon A.W.C. inquiry, which
lasted from December 29 to February
24, when Commissioner Harry Brown
went into smoke with some tons of
recorded evidence to knock together his
report.
out aboard a destroyer. After leaving the
R.N. he knocked about Australia a fair
bit and joined the Engineers when the
present shindy broke out. His eldest son
was with the Enzedders in Libya, and
there became a p.0.w.; another is an
R.A.A.F. trainee. The father, a rugged
type, intends to publish a book of verse.
Andrew Ward Bowden, South Aus-
tralia’s Director of Rationing, Statist
and Registrar of Births (etc,), is a
Maorilander, now 38. He started out
A. W. BOWDEN.
as a clerk in the M.L. Govt. Life In-
surance Office and at 30 was made Pub-
lic Actuary. His worst headache in the
present job is the number of South Aus-
tralians who lose their ration books. Up
to date more than 2000 have done so,
the number including a leading Uni. pro-
fessor.
Into the silence:-
At Kogarah (N.S.W.) Herman Burton Prim,
rose, brother of the late H. L. Primrose,
M.L.A., first N.E.S. Minister for N.S.W. De-
scendants of a pioneer family in the Hawkes-
bury district, they both became solicitors. H.B.
was a keen bowler.
James Dear, Tasmania’s senior practising
solicitor, admitted to the Speck’s Bar in 1882.
At 93 he still took a keen interest in music.
The son of a Congregational minister, he sang
in the choir of the New Town Congregational
church until a few years ago. He also played
in one of Hobart’s leading orchestras.
At Wellington (M.L.), 85, Samuel Saunders,
doyen of the Dominion’s journalists. Son of
Allred Saunders, of Nelson, Parliamentarian
and historian, Samuel had schooling in Nelson
and England. He had some farming and com-
meicial experience in M.L. before he became
editoi of the Ashburton “Guardian” in 1883.
He joined the Lyttelton “Times” staff (Christ-
church) three years later as sporting editor, and
when W. P. Reeves resigned as editor-in-chief
to join Ballance’s Cabinet in 1891 Saunders
succeeded him, and occupied the chair till 1914.
A Liberal, he was one of Seddon’s most trusted
advisers. His sanctum in the Lyttelton “Times”
office contained an ancient armchair, strength-
ened with iron, known as “Mr. Seddon’s chair.”
Saunders, who stood by his staff through thick
and thin, inspired those who worked with him
with affection as well as deep respect, and his
“young lions,” as he used to call them—most
of them old chaps now —will sincerely lament
bis passing. After he resigned his editorship
(on a matter of political principle) he moved
to the capital, where he acted as Maoriland
correspondent of newspapers of the Empire
and the LJ.S.A. —among them the London
“Times.”
At 85, Rev. Father Paul Aubry, oldest
member of the Marist Order in M.L. A native
of France, he was 60 years in M.L. He dis-
tinctly remembered 1870 in France. He lived
a good distance from Paris, and his village was
much startled by an apparently lurid display
of borealis. The Communards were in charge,
and the bright glow turned out to be the burn-
ing of the great buildings of the metropolis.
At 63, Dr. Henry George Denham, rector of
Canterbury University College (M.L.). A native
of Christchurch, and educated at Christchurch
High and Canterbury College, he took his
MA. and M.Sc., a doctorate of science (Liver-
pool) and a doctorate of philosophy (Heidel-
berg). He was Exhibition Research Scholar,
1906-09. Lecturer in Chemistry and assistant
professor at the University of Queensland,
1912-21.
At 67, Dr. Reginald Laidlaw Davies, former
lecturer in gynaecology at Sydney University.
Born at Scone (N.S.W.), educated at King’s
and Sydney Uni., he failed to pass the medical
exam, for the A.I.F. in 1914 because he had
“only two years to live.” Despite that he went
to France, served there, and was decorated as
Chevalier of the Legion of Honor. For post-
war medical work in England he gathered an
0.8. E.
In Adelaide, at 71, William John Masson,
formerly general manager of the Bank of Adel-
aide. He had been g.m. for 12 years and had
had banking experience for half a century.


Society
"AND IT'S PRINTED
WITH WIMBLE'S INKS"
“Frosty”: I snorted with disgust when
I read a par. on The Bulletin’s social
page that the Victorian National Fitness
Council is occupying itself with the train-
ing of “play-leaders”—adults who go to
infant schools and kindergartens to teach
the kids how to play. “Absurd,” said I
to myself, “Might as well employ people
to teach ’em to breathe.” And then I
fell a-thinking. How many years has
it been since I saw a kite in the sky, or
a hopscotch arena chalked on the pave-
ment ; how long since I saw a little girl
skipping or had my shins rapped by a
runaway hoop? Quite a long while. So
I conducted a little Gallup poll of my
own among the kids in my street. Kites?
You can’t get any in the shops.
Hopscotch? No youngster I .questioned
had heard of such a pastime, and I gath-
ered that even if they had they were too
blase to make the preparations necessary
to play it. There are some skipping-ropes
and hoops in our street, I discovered, but
a total lack of any urge to use such
appliances. It is easier to listen to the
radio or the gramophone or go to the
pictures. Wherefore I confess the laugh
is not on the Fitness Council. It is on
Modern Times.
sic * * *
“Ex-C.G.”: Easily the most original
defence ever put up for sly-grogging was
that advanced by a Melbourne tattoo
artist. An inquiring policeman, search-
ing his premises, came across 16 bottles
of beer and then opened a large box.
In it were seven bottles of wine and 12
large and lively tiger snakes. Hurriedly
dropping the lid the constable retreated,
to be told by the tattooer that the booze
was intended to accompany him on a
snake-hunting trip to the Goulburn
Valley. The defence put the same yarn
up to the Bench, adding that defendant
caught snakes as a sideline for various
institutions. Dryly remarking that it was
a large amount of liquor to take away
on a snake hunt, the Beak slapped a £25
fine on the tattooer. The next constable
who has to raid his premises will be wise
to requisition a suit of armor.
¥ 5K * *
“Nipper”: Whatever his politics, H. G.
Wells has yet to be proven wrong in his
pre-war summing up that Hitler was a
certifiable lunatic. Adolf’s latest pro-
clamation over the Berlin Radio —he did
the dingo act and got someone else to
read it for him —by no means weakens
the contention. Der Fiihrer solemnly de-
clared that “I have every reason to believe
mine is a mission of fate and I have
been chosen by Providence.” If any
Anglo-Saxon reared up and shouted that
he’d be wheeled off in the green cart or
be roared down with laughter. But the
greatest egotist of the century (“How else
could it be possible for an unknown little
man to rise to such heights?”), batty or
not, wasn’t strong on logic in his
latest tirade. Claiming divine protection
in one breath, he whinges in the next
about the “elemental powers of winter”
being responsible for his Russian reverses.
“Bo,” with curses:
I protest passionately against the ukase by
the Sydney Road Transport authorities that
only persons of either sfex who are 6ft. high
or over may ride on the back platform of a
bus when there is standing room in the aisles,
and that only six persons “of normal or abnor-
mal height” may ride on the platform when
the inside of the vehicle is crammed. No pro-
vision, of course, for anyone not of normal
height. He will, as usual, be victimised by
being herded among the mob inside to spend
the entire journey with his face pressed against
someone’s waistcoat buttons, or getting bounced
at jerky intervals off some hefty female’s
whalebone. After years of staring at the
covered shoulder-blades of others at proces-
sions, Test matches and big football, and having
developed abnormal calf muscles through stand-
ing on tiptoe for long stretches while trying
to look at workmen digging holes in city streets,
this humiliation is to me the crowning touch.
I have a theory that Napoleon, Benito, Franco,
Adolf and Joe, all short, chunky men, became
dictators so that nobody could get in their
way, and I warn the S.R.T. authorities of the
consequences of their folly. What little coco-
nut fibre I have left I’m now parting on the
right side.
* * * *
“Hamer”: A technicolor expert from
Hollywood who paid a visit to Australia
a few years ago, asked his impressions
of Sydney, gave first place to the colorful
and comfortable taxis. I was reminded
of that when a young Allied soldier
who snapped up the vehicle I had just
alighted from remarked : “80, I c’d ride
in your taxis all day. They make a guy-
feel like a millionaire.”
* * * *
“Geebung”: Tell “Strict Veg.” (B.
17/2/’43) that polygamy is contradictory
to the Book of Mormon, on which the
Mormon faith is founded. I quote from
Jacob ii, 36: “There shall not any man
among you have save one wife and con-
cubines he shall have none.” Brigham
Young was not the founder of the
“Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day
Saints” ; the founder was Joseph Smith,
who said he had received “by divine
revelation” at the hill of Cumorah, New
York county, the gold plates on which
was written the Book of Mormon. With
the plates he claimed to have received a
key to the translation of them. At 39
Joseph Smith was murdered at Carthage,
Illinois, and his followers split up. One
section stayed with his widow and three
sons at Nauvoo, Illinois; the others,
under Brigham Young, went along the
terrible Oregon Trail and eventually
founded Salt Lake City, Utah. So many
“Lucky We brought him along, isn't it ?”
of their finest young men had died from
fighting the elements and Indians on that
trek that polygamy was introduced as a
temporary expedient to build up the
ranks. Both sections of the Faith have
established branches in Australia. The
Mormon headquarters are at Enmore,
Sydney; those of the Reorganised
Church, at Rozelle, Sydney. Over 50
years ago a granddaughter of Joseph
Smith came to Australia and went by
bullock-dray to help her husband to suc-
cess on a 1400-acre selection in the Wal-
“You were seen entering the lady's bedroom at four-thirty."
“ That's a lie. I was in there all the afternoon."
lamba district (N.S.W.). They reared 10
husky kids. I’m one of them.
* ik * *
“Ike Hollar”: A Sydney paper, in a
comment on the invitation (it started in
Britain and has spread) to women to
attend church hatless, declared (after an
implied consultation with parsons) that
the origin of the feminine hat-wearing
in church was “shrouded with mystery.”
The journal must have had singular ill-
luck in its selection of parsons. St. Paul
declared (1 Corinthians xi, 5): “Every
woman that prayeth or prophesieth with
her head uncovered dishonored! her
head.”
* * * *
“P.R.”; Australia’s smallest tombstone
seems to be the Shoppee Monument,
recently unearthed by the Ballarat His-
torical Society. Of pure marble, it stands
about 20in. high by lOin. wide and 2in.
thick, and is inscribed in clear black
lettering: “Sacred to the Memory of the
City Councillors. A. Ratepayer and Co.”
In the not-so-naughty ’nineties the space
outside Ballarat City Hall was used as
a van stand. It was an eyesore to Shoppee,
the Mayor, who had the rank banished, the
area bordered with granite curbing and
garden plots laid out. For a long time
the plots remained empty and looked like
a row of graves. Some humorist had
the little tombstone made to order and
placed it one night at the head of the
“graves.” When the city dads’ indigna-
tion evaporated and the completed and
now famous gardens began to thrive, it
was felt that it was a pity to waste the
monument, so a paper-printed inscrip-
was pasted on its reverse side and read;
“To Celebrate the Opening of the Sturt
Street Gardens, 1897. All Honor to
Our City Councillors.” (Signed) “Citizens
of Ballarat.” Today both sets of inscrip-
tions can be read, but it is pretty plain
that the original one will last the longer,
* * * !*
“Hamer”: “T.M.” says Sydney had no
four-pubbed street intersections 50 and 60
years ago (B. 24/2/’43). Let me name a
few. The King-Castlereagh street inter-
section had the two pubs that still deco-
rate the vicinity, Usher’s, where what
used to be the “Daily Telegraph” build-
ing now stands, and another (called, I
think, the Britannia), which was run by
the gipsy-like Madame Teleki. Until the
United Insurance Co. took over one
corner, Pitt-King street also had four. On
“Proud’s Corner” of today was Punch’s
“Bunch of Grapes,” the sporting ren-
dezvous of its time. Castlereagh-Park
street had four pubs, too: one went
a few years ago to make way for the
Park-street widening; another dis-
appeared when the Dixson tobacco fac-
tory was built (it is now a big insurance
building) and two still stand. Goulburn-
George street’s four-pubbed splendor was
altered first by a bank (it secured the
site after a fire had burnt down the pub)
and then by Anthony Horderns. Two
hostelries remain. There were many
other such groups, some even in suburban
areas. The ’Loo had at least two.
* * * *
“Avon’s” panegyric on a noble race:
The Maoris in Maoriland have a birthrate of
46.87 ner 1000 as against the whites’ rate of
22.12. Some reasons why Maori fecundity is
a good thing for the country are contained in
a statement by Paraire Karaka Paikea, Minis-
ter in Charge of Maori War Effort, who shows
that when the Dominion gets in a spot of bother
through foreign belligerency Henare pulls more
than his fair share of weight in the boat. At
the beginning of this year there were 16,759
Maori men in the Dominion’s defence forces.
That’s about 19 p.c. of the entire Maori popu-
lation. In addition there are 10,825 Maori
men in essential industries, so that 27,584 males
of the race are playing a man’s part. Accord-
ing to the latest available estimate of Maori
population and its age distribution, there aren’t
more than 23,000 males between 15 and 60, so
a lot of old-timers and/or schoolboys must be
rallying to the call. Of course there’s every
reason the Maori should co-operate. Ine
Maoris, pro rata , have equal Parliamentary
representation with the whites; their land hold-
ings are proportionately a bit bigger, and it
there is such a thing as a “color line’’ it is the
Maori who draws it. Nevertheless, the Maoris
are demonstrating their friendship for the
pakeha in such overwhelming style that the
pakeha feels impelled to do better than his
best to be worthy of such generous support.
* * * *
“Loc”: Lord Rosebery, Regal Commis-
sioner for Scotland, has revealed that
about 17,000,000 gallons of Scotch whisky
(80 p.c. of the Highlands’ precious stock),
has been buried in abandoned caves and
“other remote and inaccessible places
for the duration. Idle shale mines were
first tried, but had unpleasant effects on
the whisky. During the disposal of the
amber fluid a Fritz bomber unloaded and
blew up 70,000 gallons. “That shows
what we’re up against,” was Rosebery s
peroration.
CUI BONO?
“N.S.W. is the only State in which tin-hare racing
is tolerated; What good is it to anybody except
those raking in the shekels?” (B. 24/2/’43.)
Most sports have obvious points to recommend
them
As beneficial in our hours of ease.
And cogent reasons why we should defend them
From being outed, ev’n in times like these.
Physical fitness, healthy recreation,
Are things that never should be giv’n a miss.
Has either the remotest application
To pastimes such as this'.'
Can it be urged they tend to the improvement
Of canine breeds, that make-believe affairs
Like these would spur them to more rapid
movement
If they were streaking after real hares?
Hardly, 1 think. It would indeed be sorry
Pretence to hint that pointers could be got
From such mad sprints for running down the
quarry
Whom Shakspeare dubs “poor Wat”?
Shall we be told that crowds of worthy fellows,
If flutters such as these are counted out,
Will find their occupation, like Othello’s,
Gone —and their means of living “up the
spout”?
One’s heard that argument on equine courses
Advanced, on somewhat more substantial
grounds.
Yet horses can be never less than horses,
Or hounds be more than hounds.
The pleasures of the chase are past all question;
I’d be the last to underrate them. Still,
There’s something comical in the suggestion
That anybody ever gets a thrill
(Excepting in the region of the pockets)
When, amid tempests of uproarious din,
Gaunt tykes pursue, like animated rockets,
Elusive chunks of tin.
The Poor Man’s Sport! An apt description,
truly,
And like enough perhaps to keep him so.
Whom does it profit barring those who duly
Collect the proceeds and divide the dough?
You jacks-in-office, who with fierce displeasure
View two-up scholars and their pedagogues,
Why not, if only for a war-time measure,
Shut down upon “the dogs”?
n.s.w.
T. THE R.
HIS GRIEVANCE.
The voice that erst so boldly rang
Along our urban section
Seemed sort of faint and feeble now.
Despondency was on his brow,
And in his gait dejection.
The slogan, boomed abroad no more
In loud robustious lingo.
Compared with what one used to near
As sorrily as modern beer
Contrasts with old-time stingo.
The bulging sack he once would tote
That tinkled every minute
With telltale vitreous harmony,
Had now, one couldn’t help but see,
Uncommon little in it.
“These war-time laws,” he growled at me,
“Are full of stings and skewers
For all, whatever trade they ply.
From working chaps like you and
To burly Bungs and brewers.
“This here was once a decent round
For odds-and-ends-collecting.
Yet now”—and on the ground he spat
As voiceless testimony that
’Twas hardly worth prospecting-
He steered his neddy past ‘ Ihe Pines
And loitered at “The Wattles.
No hail from either stirred the a,r
“It looks,” he said, “as though were
More bottle-ohs than oottles .
N.s.w.
PIPARDS.


“Moyhu”: Thirty or so years after
Ned Kelly’s capture a big State school
in a crowded part of Melbourne couldn’t
have held all those who claimed to have
accompanied the outlaw to the tiny school
he attended at Greta West. Early in the
present century I was driving past the
old Kelly home with Bill the Octoge-
narian as passenger. “I mind me the
time” he began ominously. I pulled
into the side of the road. “Now look
here. Bill,” I threatened, “if you say
you went to school with Ned Kelly out
you go.” “It ain’t that,” says Bill with
a wheezy chuckle, “but I did go to clink
with ’is ole man.”
* He H? *
“Mausel”: Signs of the times? I saw
this displayed in a Goulburn (N.S.W.)
grocery store: “Please do not annoy the
staff—they are harder to get than cus-
tomers.”
* * * *
“Chevroford”: A convincing demon-
stration of the wastefulness of private
motor transport was provided by a recent
police check of traffic in Melbourne. The
number of vehicles of all sorts, including
the humble pushbike, which crossed the
Yarra in one day was 51,123. In 1939,
just after the outbreak, it was 84,940, a
difference of 33,817. Since petrol ration-
ing reached full blast last year the de-
cline has been 5779. To carry the heavier
loads of demotorised citizens there were
only 23 trams more than last year.
* * * *
“Adelaide”; The otherwise not un-
usual penalty of a £2O fine, with license
suspended for six weeks, for “driving a
motor utility truck while so much under
the influence of liquor as to be incapable
of exercising effective control,” has been
imposed by an Adelaide Court—on a
woman. Is she a pioneer?
* * * *
“Loo”: I don’t agree with “Pawang”
(B. 17/2/’43) when he says it’s “not the
word itself that makes us snigger, laugh
or shudder, but the memories the word <
conjures up.” No matter how I look at
a pickled gherkin I don’t see anything
funny about it, nor can the strictest self
psycho-analysis trace any humorous inci-
dent connected with gherkins in my
childhood. Yet whenever I hear or see
the word “gherkin” 1 laugh. Ditto two
other words, “hoop-la” and “punnet.”
When a photographer asks me to
smile I have a set method, and it
never fails. I just say to myself “I
have won a punnet of gherkins at the rr
hoop-la,” and back goes my mouth
till it hits my ears and I look
simper-ly lovely.
“Wurd-doc”; It is the word itself
which makes us snigger. Let “K.”
use “ale” or “lager” for “beer” and
he won’t be amused. What “K.” and
“Pawang” stand in need of is a course
of semantics (the science of meaning).
Further, I dispute the fact that “cheval”
conjures up for a Frenchman a similar
image to what “horse” does for an Aus-
tralian. Not on your life. It is this mis-
taken belief that similar words mean
the same thing to each nation in its own
tongue that lies at the bottom of inter-
national anarchy today.
* * * *
“Macaff”; The daddy of all the “Penny
Poets” (B. 3/2/’43) was Sammy Lunn,
of Kilkenny, S.A. I well remember
Sammy with his ice-cream cart at Sema-
phore Beach, dispensing ice-cream and
jellies and keeping up a barrage of
patter in rhyme. But he reserved his top
form for League football matches. His
arrival at the Oval would be the signal
for hundreds to follow him from the
entrance gates around to “the hill,”
where for the next two hours he would
chatter away on the merits of Port
Adelaide and the demerits of its oppo-
nents, without repeating himself. During
the 1914-18 war Sammy raised thousands
of pounds for comforts. His greatest
efforts were on behalf of a fund to pro-
vide a gift of ss. to every man who re-
turned to S.A. as soon as he walked off
the ship. (Sammy saw every contingent
sail and return.) He personally handed
me my five bob and said “Here’s your
dollar, Mac, and we’re glad to see you
back.” They gave him an 0.8. E.
* * * *
“Ear Punisher”: A questionnaire cir-
culated amongst “Wesley” boys by the
chaplain elicited much franker answers
than are usually elicited from adults in the
Gallup polls which get so much publicity
in Melbourne dailies. The question asked
was why they attended Sunday school
regularly. Thirty-five gave the orthodox
reply by saying that they went to learn
the Christian way of life. Of other “regu-
lars,” 19 said they went to meet friends,
sex not stated; 14 went because they were
ordered by their parents; 12 said they
liked it and six confessed they went out
of habit. Seventy-seven youngsters who
did not attend said that in their experi-
ence Sunday school was a waste of time
and useless; 13 said it was uninteresting
and unconvincing ; 12 knew how to spend
their time better ; nine had grown too old
for it, in their opinion, and two retorted
that they gave it up because of the
“hypocrisy” of their teachers. Of 129
senior boys 22 declared that they read
the Bible for pleasure or for edification.
* Hi * H<
“Hamer”: Ratting, a sport which still
prevails in the English north country, was
one of Sydney’s pastimes in the early
days. There was a well-known rat-pit
off Pitt-street, about where Her Majesty’s
Theatre building, now Woolworths,
stands today. At the same site dogfights
used to be staged under the equivalent
of London Prize Ring rules. They have
never entirely ceased in outer suburbs,
nor have rooster-fights, in spite of police
objections.
Hi * * *
“Curtain Raiser”: Well-meaning citi-
zens who have become enraged at the
thought that somebody or other is mak-
ing a fortune out of the royalties from
“Waltzing Matilda” and thus cheating
the descendants of “Banjo” Paterson,
author, and Christine Rutherford Mc-
Pherson, sometimes said to have been the
composer, may cool down now that an
authoritative statement has come from
Ivan Tait, of Allan’s, Melbourne, the
firm that owns the copyright. Accord-
ing to Tait, the claim made for Miss
McPherson won’t hold water. It appears
that she had heard the tune played and
repeated it to her friends but never seri-
ously claimed to have composed it. The
composer was Marie Cowen, of Sydney.
Royalties are paid to her estate, and her
executors pass them on to charitable in-
"I'll go if you insist , but you'll hear from my solicitor .”
stitutions. And they don't rival the riches
of Golconda.
* * *
“L. de Rideau”: There are varieties of
scoundrels who use copies of Louvre
pictures for other purposes than to sub-
stitute them for the originals (B. 3/2/’43).
An Australian artist was once copying a
famous picture in the Louvre collection
when a suave, well-dressed gentleman
approached him and, after praising the
work, invited him to a cafe. The wine
was good and the food was well cooked ;
the stranger knew some curious facts
about art, and the dinner proceeded
smoothly. Then the host came out with
a proposition. “I belong,” he said, “to
a firm which is prepared to pay a com-
petent artist like you a very handsome
salary to copy certain works of Corot.
When you have handed over the copies
your part in the business ends. Of
course, there might be trouble, but if
there is an aeroplane will be placed at
your disposal to convey you to Holland
at a moment’s notice. 1 don’t suppose
you are very wealthy?” The artist said
he wasn’t, and the stranger mentioned a
figure that left him gasping. “How
would that suit you?” asked the stranger.
“Very well if it were dinkum,” replied
the artist; “but flying makes me sick.”
He never saw the stranger again.
* * * *
“Sturt”; Adelaide had a nasty blow
when its Olympic swimming pool
was declared by a coroner a “trap and
menace.” This new open-air pool, be-
tween Government House and the rail-
way station, was supposed to be about
perfection. But when a schoolboy, diving
from the high tower, broke another’s
ribs and his own neck, it was found that
the diving platforms, being directly one
above the other instead of being “stag-
gered,” obscure a diver’s view of what
is happening below.
“Yair”; When I was a kid and an
aeroplane roared overhead, everyone in
the house would race out into the yard
and, throwing the head so far back that
the neck creaked, would stare at the
’plane until the last vibration died away.
But, today, what happened? Two beauti-
ful ’planes, flying low, roared overhead.
The street was crowded. Not one
person looked up. We were all too busy
staring at a far rarer spectacle-four real
horses being ridden along the street!
* * * *
“Strict Veg.”; The problem of feeding
the increased population which war has
crowded into Melbourne is becoming
acute. Cafes, even the most expensive,
are so congested that the citizen can’t get
a seat unless he makes an early reserva-
tion. A lot of the diners are obviously
people unused to dining out; previously
they were unable to afford it. Now they
order the most costly dishes, and Austerity
regulations don’t seem to cramp their
style much. But the regular cafe patrons
are being vastly inconvenienced. It seems
time the Government stepped in and es-
tablished canteens on the lines which
work so well in some munitions areas. At
one of these a three-course meal costing
one and twopence and prepared by
dietetic experts is served in modern
hygienic cafeterias. Over 500 dinners
can be served with a square meal every
five minutes.
* * * *
“Wurd-doc”; That appalling word
“socialite” (B. 17/2/’43) is English as
“social light.” In the U.S.A. the word
(in the form our local nitwit press has
copied) was coined originally by the late
Britten Haddon, co-founder of “Time.”
He also spawned “cinemaddict,” “radi-
orator,” “sexpert,” “slimelite” and
“vitalics” (“He spoke in vitalics”). The
peculiar locution in which “Time”
specialises, and which has been copied
by our nitwit press, was borrowed from
Homer. Compound epithets such as
“legacy-stalking,” “smudge-moustached”
and “bug-eyed” are derived from the
Iliad, where you find “wine-dark sea”
and “far-darting Apollo.” A copy of the
Iliad, formerly the property of Britten
Haddon, was found after his death with
all the compound epithets underlined.
* * * *
“Strict Veg.”; Repression always in-
creases obsession. Latest Melb. City
Court statistics show that since the Gov-
ernment increased liquor restrictions
drunkenness convictions amongst civilians
have increased 50 p.c., while arrest cases
and cases of indecent and offensive be-
havior attributable to liquor also show
an increase. Another feature is that there
has been an uprush in the number
of first offenders, especially women. The
restrictions having thus produced exactly
the opposite effect to that intended, the
Cold Tea party will, of course, now de-
mand more restrictions.
* * * *
“Avian”: Several of us have attempted
a mathematical proof of the statement
by the much-quoted Peter Masefield,
aviation correspondent of the London
“Sunday Times,” that a rear-firing gun
on a bomber has a 60 p.c. advantage
over a forward-firing gun on a fighter.
“The rearward-facing gun is ‘with the
wind,’ while the fighter’s guns fire ‘up-
stream’ when attacking from behind,”
Masefield says in support of his conten-
tion. Wind tunnel tests have shown that
the air is sucked along behind a plane,
and, actually, the bomber’s bullet would
encounter a head wind immediately it
left the muzzle. This suggested to us
that the problem could not be solved
with any degree of accuracy by reference
to “winds” alone —particularly since the
wind effect on a bullet at the ranges used
in air fighting is considerable. We then
attempted a proof by determining the
relative velocities, and we came to the
profound conclusion that the advantage
possessed by the tail-gunner would be
the square of dam-all. To have decided
otherwise would have meant that it was
possible for a ’plane to overtake a bullet
—muzzle velocity, minimum, about 1500
m.p.h., but usually much more—before
it leaves the muzzle of the gun. Every-
body except newspaper “experts” knows
that that tannot happen.
* * * *
“Pawang”: There is a year-old rule at
the Children’s Hospital in Melbourne
which prohibits parents visiting sick off-
spring for a month after admission. After
a month they are allowed to see them
each alternate Sunday. There are lots
of parents who feel unhappy about it,
but the hospital justifies its action on the
ground that infection could be brought
in by parents and visitors, and a child
in a delicate state of health would be a
good host for bacteria. Moreover, the
hospital authorities reckon that visitors
unsettle the children and make it diffi-
cult to treat them. Maybe, but I should
imagine that a feeling of being deserted
could easily be far more injurious to
the child’s chances of recovery than any
germ. The baby hospitals keep new arri-
vals in a special section with a glass-
fronted room adjacent into which they
can be wheeled when their fathers want
to look upon their offspring. Something
on these lines might be a solution of the
problem.
4: * 3fc 9fC
“Melbn”: In a recent week Melbourne
had three sectional trade holidays in swift
succession. On Monday the delicatessen
shops put up their shutters. On Tuesday
the tobacconists followed their example.
On Wednesday the bakers took their day
off. Later the boot repairers, the fish-
mongers, the poulterers, the tinplate arid
sheet-metal workers and the’ fruit and
vegetable vendors were due for a com-
pulsory day’s vacation. Citizens who
don’t come under any of these categories
expressed annoyance. I can’t help won-
dering how they would have felt in the
Middle Ages. There are historians who
assert that in the so-called darkest period
of Europe’s history artisans and most
manual workers could earn in three
months sufficient to keep them for a year,
and that they availed themselves of the
privilege is suggested by the fact that in
some countries there were as many as five
holidays or holy days in some weeks.
In fact, the Dark Ages seem to have been
an era of constant jollifications, junket-
ings, picnics, games and religious proces-
sions. Yet they produced cathedrals,
monasteries, picture galleries, palaces and
bridges which make the present era, with
its incessant production and swift destruc-
tion of repetitive rubbish, seem niggling
and paltry. It isn’t for nothing that one
of the centuries of the Middle Ages is
known as the Glorious Thirteenth.
He
“Lunar” recites some Japanese history:
1 wonder how Occidentals got hold of the
idea that the Japanese share with the Chinese
a horror of losing “face.” Probably the Japs
themselves are responsible for spreading the
myth, but 90 years of Far Eastern history go
to show that the Japs are realists from start
to finish. Never at any time since they aban-
doned their traditional isolation at the gun-
backed request of Perry have they allowed fear
of losing national dignity and respect to turn
them from their path of aggrandisement. Japan
started her infiltration tricks by stealing the
Ryukyu Islands from China. Then, under the
pretence of furnishing guards for the Japanese
Embassy, troops were poured into Korea. When
China showed fight Nipponese troops got out
faster than they had gone in. Later, of course,
China had to pull out of Korea and cede For-
mosa to Japan. At the eleventh hour, just
when Nippon was reaching for the ripe plum,
Russia stepped in and told Japan to get out,
Japan went without a murmur. By 1904 Japan
was ready for the next forward step in her
pattern of conquest. For Russia, ponderous,
half-awake, the war was lost almost before
those at the Kremlin knew it had started. And
so it goes on through the years, Japanese
spokesmen talking hissingly of national honor
and Occidental commentators voicing admira-
tion of Japanese love of “face” while behind
the scenes Japanese leaders play every card
for what it is worth, no more and no less.
While Japan was trying to persuad« America
not to make the bombing of the Panay a
reason for a shooting match, Japanese naval
heads were studying maps of Pearl Harbor.
* * * *
“Nakh”: Yes, it certainly looks as if
vandalism is declining amongst the
rising generation (B. 17/2/’43). Pass-
ing a State school in a Melbourne
industrial suburb, I observed a strik-
ing effort to take advantage of the
A.R.P. scare of 12 months ago, and at
the same time relieve the vegetable short-
age. Pumpkins had been planted on the
mounds thrown up from the slit trenches,
and evidently the soil provided perfect
“hills,” for the pumpkins were prodigious.
Still, I fancy the teachers showed dis-
cretion in not choosing watermelons.


ABORIGINALITIES
“Boxer”; Quartpot had been to see his
first talkie and the horsebreaker asked
him what he thought of it. “Oh,” said
the abo., “that Clark Gable pfeller a
bit of a fool. It took him two hours to
get woman on screen by kiddin’ her,
what I could have done by tellin’ her
sumpin’ in few jiffies.” “What would
you have said to her?” asked the horse-
breaker. “Plenty of fat possums longa
crick,” replied Quartpot.
•J* 'l'
“Arev”: Bill Jupp could never resist
the gift of a dog, so when the drover
handed over a young pup whose feet had
gone sore on the track Bill accepted with
open arms. Mrs. Jupp didn’t share his
enthusiasm, especially after Bill had
used all the ointment in the house on the
pup’s paws and it had followed the treat-
ment by lying on her best quilt. “Aw,”
said Bill, “he only wants a little train-
ing. The drover must have let Rover
sleep in his bunk when he had one.”
The next day Rover ate a chicken. “I
suppose,” observed Mrs. Jupp tartly, “the
drover let him eat the lambs.” Bill
thrashed the pup and chained him up.
He howled all night. “You’ll have to
get rid of him,” said Mrs. Jupp. Bill
nodded, feeling that he was beaten; yet
he hated to lose what he was sure would
turn out a valuable dog. That after-
noon Mrs. Jupp’s sister called with little
Betty. Later, Bill, at work in the pad-
dock, looked up as screams rang out from
the house and Mrs. Jupp and her sister
rushed out and raced to the dam. The
baby, hanging on to Rover, was dragged
from the water’s edge and the baby was
kissed and the dog patted. Bill came up
to hear what the women had to say. “Oh,
Bill!” said Mrs. Jupp. “We must never
part with Rover —he saved little Betty’s
life.” Bill kept a silent tongue in a
wise head. He’d seen the pup, wrestling
for his stolen bone, drag the kid into the
water, which was down to a foot deep
all over.
* * * #
“Edjudina”: Regarding those kanga-
roos seeking refuge under the wilga-tree
during an electrical storm (B. 27/1/’43),
it would be interesting to know what type
of country the wilga favors, for in that
probably lies the reason for the ’roos’
preference. Lightning in striking at the
earth favors ironstone country. It
shows a distinct aversion to kopi hills
and flats, and has great fondness for
sandstone or limestone. On all these
different varieties of country, with their
many gradations, different types of trees
grow. So if “Boxer” digs down under
those wilgas he is hardly likely to find
ironstone. Though how the ’roos came
to know it —well, I gave up the instinct
theory of animal conduct long ago.
'** * *
“Anthropo”: Although he could make
fire by means of two sticks of dry wood,
the aboriginal didn’t like doing it; he
preferred to keep the existing fire alight.
On the march firesticks were carried, the
duty being delegated to the gins, gener-
ally the oldest. A thick stick of banksia
or similar wood was favored, as it
smouldered a long time, yet could be
readily fanned into flame by whirling the
brand around at arm’s length. In wet
or windy weather a sleeve of green bark
prevented the glowing tip from being
damped out or fanned into a flame that
would burn too quickly. But, the women
being absent, men often carried a fire-
stick. While carrying such a brand a
warrior was regarded as being at peace.
But if he threw the fire down it was a
challenge to war, since he needed both
hands to ship the cpear in the womera
ready for a throw. Should a family lose
their fire and the weather be too wet to
permit the use of the fire-making tools,
the male head, if there were any fires
still alight in the neighborhood, had to
go a-borrowing. If these were not of
his own clan the matter required a cer-
tain ceremonial. Tapping two dry sticks
together the man advanced slowly to the
circle of light. Here he seated himself,
rubbing the sticks together. If the fire-
owner then added more fuel to his blaze
it was a sign of consent; the borrower
came slowly forward, thrust his two sticks
in and got them alight. But if no fuel
was added that was hostility.
* * * *
“Millgrits”: The grinding of wheat
was a major problem to just about every
infant Australian settlement. With plenty
of convict labor Baughan’s mill (B.
27/1/’43) should have been a success, for
that was the mill of antiquity—the stone
dragged around by a team of slaves.
Thirty-nine years later the Swan River
settlement ground its first wheat by a
similar device, the motive power being a
couple of horses. Later the wind was
employed to move the same stone ; the
millhouse still stands as a relic at South
Perth. Along the north bank of the Swan
two water-driven mills also helped to
relieve the flour shortage. One, Reve-
ley’s, used a sort of turbine, the water
being impounded in a sizable dam on
what is now the busiest part of St.
George’s-terrace. The other, Kings-
ford’s, used a genuine English overshot
water-wheel. The stream for this came
“Think we'll be able to carry it all home ?”
“Aw, if we can't We'll take a taxi .”
in a cut channel that drained the huge
mass of lakes and swamps which then lay
right across what is now North Perth ;
a 30ft. fall in level at the river bank gave
ample power to drive the wheel. For
nearly 10 years Kingsford’s millstones
turned. Then steam arrived; but by
then the swamps were nearly drained,
anyhow.
* * * %
“Julia Creek”: Fifteen miles is a
mighty big swim for a horse (B.
27/1/’43), and to me it seems well-nigh
impossible for a mare. Once mares start
to go down in the hindquarters the only
thing to do is get them on to land, and
even then, as a rule, they don’t last long.
I have always considered a mile or two
the extent of a mare’s swimming ability.
» * * *
“Loc”: “Anyway, The Bulleteen says
to do it that way, so that’s how we’ll do
it.” Joe was speculating on the possi-
bilities of snaring a swarm. Thereupon
all the prescribed noise-makers were
dragged forth and set up in the paddock,
together with some that Harry and his
hand had thought up for themselves.
Strawb, as usual on such occasions,
ambled up and watched the pile of cans,
etc., reaching the desired proportions.
At a signal from Joe stones and cudgels
were let fly, and, as an afterthought, the
pair leaped into the air, throwing up
their hats and bellowing mightily. Strawb
dropped in her tracks, the swarm gave a
terrified buzz and lit out for parts un-
known, while both Harry and his hand
decided for the umpteenth time that Abo-
hars were bad that season.
» « « *
“Jayem”: The accountant who had
come out from the township to see Harry
tibout some taxation matters asked to
see the book wherein his client kept par-
ticulars of debtors. “There they are,”
said Harry. “I’ve got three books—the
hospital book, the morgue and the ceme-
tery.” The accountant looked blank,
then requested elucidation. “Well,” ex-
plained Harry, “I enter up the doubtful
debts in the hospital book, and those that
look hopeless but might have a rough
chance of recovery go into the morgue
for final identification. Debts that look
absolutely rotten I bury.”
« * • *
“G.G.”: Admittedly the larger Tas-
manian towns are mainly replicas of
English names (B. 17/2/’43), but there
is no dearth of abo. place-names in the
smaller townships. A peculiarity of these
is that the majority end in “a,” the ter-
minal syllables being “ana,” “ina” or less
often “etta,” “utta” and “alia.” There is
a softer tone to the Tassie abo. names,
as, for instance, Lemana, Tatana, Robi-
gana, Riana, Liena, Moina, Myalla,
Lalla’, Karoola, Taranna, Mathinna,
Moorina, Nietta and Trowutta. And
what more euphonious than the four-
syllable names—Triabunna, Preolenna,
Pyengana, Nabageena, Boobyalla, Lie-
tinna, Premaydena and Ringarooma?
• • •
“Dusty Bob”; “Bone” in local aborigi-
nal dialect means “place of” or “plenty
of.” For example, Gulargambone means
place of or plenty of galah parrots ; Giri-
lambone, place of stars; Quambone,
place of mist or fog ; Quilbone, place of
nightbirds. Different tribes had different
dialects. Wellington blacks called a pos-
sum grogie ; the lower MacQuarie tribe
named it willie. Practically all native
names had a meaning in their own lan-
guage. Often the pronunciation was
altered by the whites. On the Upper
Darling kea meant fish. Hence, Kea-
warrina, place of fish. The whites altered
it to Brewarrina. And we have Mulga-
warrina, on the Bogan, which translates
itself.
* * * m
“D. 0.” (New Guinea): “B.4’s” ac-
count of the cure of the offending molar
(B. 23/12/’42) would be correct had he
stated that another copper ball had been
placed in the lubra’s hand or in contact
with her person, for how can an electric
current be complete without a circuit?
The same method is used in the fang-
snatching industry, either for determin-
ing whether a certain tooth is vital or
alive or in some cases for actually kill-
ing the nerve of the offending fang. The
degree of vitality or “liveness” is deter-
mined by increasing the current in set
times, as it varies for each individual
and each tooth. Care must be taken to
remove all bangles, rings, watches, etc.,
owing to the danger of a “short.” If
that lubra had her earrings or arm-
bands on she was lucky to have been able
to give vent to the blast of h.-e. remarks,
let alone join a tribal corroboree.
* * * *
“N.”: A most seaman-like individual
stowed away in the dinghy the other
night. As soon as I had pushed off and
pulled away from the bank he popped out
—not at all home-, sea-, love- or adven-
ture-sick, as stowaways are popularly
supposed to be. He explored the stern,
tasted the bilgewater, glared at a spider,
sprang on to the gunwale and then, as I
drew alongside the hull of the old paddle-
steamer Decoy, he spotted a piece of
twine dangling above his head from a
scupper hole. With one clean spring
that frog caught the cord and went up
it in the neatest, most deliberate hand-
over-hand manner possible. I’ve seen
’em climb perpendicular glass, but that’s
the first batrachian I’ve ever caught at
the rope trick.
* * * *
“Bad Australian”: We met her on a
bush track in the ranges above Walhalla
(Vic.). She was mounted on a wiry
mountain pony and approached us at a
ten-mile bat. Two small nippers were
roosting behind her and a still smaller
one m front, and as she came abreast of
us we gave her a hearty cheer, whereupon
she pulled up and demanded to know
what all the excitement was about. When
we explained that a woman who could
handle a horse in the way she did and
attend to her passengers as well was
entitled to some applause and encourage-
rnent she said that was nothing to make
a song about. “A woman couldn’t leave
“ie kids at home t set fire t’ the house,
or get bit be a snake, or fall in the crick,
or t’ be et alive be the dingoes” when
she wanted to visit a neighbor or see
what was goin’ on in the township,
* * * *
“Avon”: It was understandable that
the English settlers in Maoriland should
wish to introduce some
animal life. There is no
country in the world in a
moderate latitude so ill-
equipped with indigenous
fauna. The only land animals
outside birds and fishes are
bats and lizards. Of course,
the seals and sea-lions of the
Antarctic Ocean sometimes
bask on southern Fernland
beaches, but they’re not very
sociable or homely. The
Maoris brought dogs and rats
from Hawaiki, and neither
have done much harm. The
dog is extinct. Cook’s pigs
settled down without trouble.
But the white man’s other im-
portations have mostly turned
out to be pests. Take opos-
sums. More than 50 years
ago I saw the first possums
released in Canterbury- at
Rangiora. Now naturalists
are clamoring to have them
exterminated. The possums
eat the leaves and berries
that nurture the Maoriland
birds—the tui, the huia, the
kaka and the native pigeon,
parrot and wood-hen, and
these are dying out. Evi-
dently Mother Nature resents
interference with her arrange-
ments.
“Mat’s Mate”: We hit Gundagai
shortly after dark one night, battled a
bit of tucker in the town, hunted round
for a camp and found a long bridge over
the ’Bidgee. Bridges being generally
good camps, we boiled the billy, ate,
smoked, yarned slightly, then unrolled the
naps and retired beneath the end of the
bridge. Sometime later Mat prodded nie
awake. There were thunder, lightning
and pelting rain but we were snug, till
Mat said “Cripes, I ain’t bin this far
up the ’Bidgee before. Hope she don t
rise sudden durin’ the night.” I laughed
scornfully and snuggled down. Next
thing I’m being dragged awake by Mat
standing in his bare shanks with an arm-
ful of nap and gear. “Come on, get
out!” he yelled. “The river’s comm’
down a boomer. Listen!” I listened
and heard a roar nearing us like the end
of the world. Mentally seeing a wall ot
water rushing at us, I scooped up what
I could and plunged out into the pour-
ing rain, following Mat’s faintly-gleam-
ing shanks up the slippery bank to safety
Then the train from Tumut rumbled on
the bridge, the roar died away. I kicked
Mat in the rear and, soaked and sarcastic,
returned to the camp.
* * * *
“Zake”: “You coves,” said Ned the
Tank, “don’t know what dust is. Y’
ought to be in the Pilliga Scrub counti}
when there’s bin a drought on for a few
years. I had a bit of a block out from
Warrumbungle. Struck four dry seasons
in a row. One day there’s a dry storm
an’ a lot of thunder, an’ the movement
in the air stirs up the dust so bad that
I lost sight o’ the missus for three whole
days. Well, the rain comes at last ana
fills the dam and the tanks. Short y
after that one of the Chapman kids along
the rise gets diphtheria and the doc. say
he suspects the water. The missus drops
her bundle and gets me to send a sam P
of ours in from the tank. The hea
authorities wrote back an sa |“ .
couldn’t get the stuff out of the bottle.
DEPARTURE FROM SUEZ.
(February, 1942.)
We are returning home, but they who died
Sleep still in quiet graves beneath the sands;
The sons of Anzac, stricken in youth's pride,
Fallen in battle in these ancient lands.
A song lurked always on their lips, their eyes
Were bright with laughter, and their hearts
were high.
Their lips are silent now, and laughter dies.
Yet from the earth their name will never die.
Welcome into Valhalla these your sons.
You Anzacs who bequeathed the name they
bore;
They were steadfast as you beneath the guns
Which shattered their battalions by the shore
When they spilled out their lives at Suda Bay,
And perished in the sand, up Bardia way.
A.I.F.
G. S. WADCELL.


“Old-timer”: Every time the movies
or fictioneers set out to depict a colt-
breaking episode you get a scene of a
wildly-pitching neddy, a shouting, hat-
waving hero on its back and, lined round
the rails, an excited crowd of station-
hands or cowpunchers, as the case may
be, all yelling and betting with each other
on the problematical length of unison
between horse and rider. Horse poets,
too, rhyme you the same exciting picture.
Well, if you happen to hit some station
or other where a bit of breaking is being
done, don’t expect anything of the kind.
You’ll see the wood-and-water joey chop-
ping a bit of wood near the kitchen, the
boss in his office wrestling with taxation
questionnaires, some of the hands lazily
drafting a few sheep, another ambling
over the horizon on some mission or
other and maybe another sinking a post-
hole near the men’s hut. That’ll be all.
The buckjumping? Oh, if you happen
to go over to the horseyard you’ll see a
bored individual sitting on a pitching colt.
He’ll spit occasionally, and when the nag's
tired he’ll get off and lead it to a stall
and perhaps bring out another, get on
and start rocking again. But there won t
be any yelling. He’s just a horse-breaker
doing his day’s work, and shows no
more excitement than the bloke sinking
the posthole.
* * * *
“B. 4”; I recall the time when I
trucked my turnout from The Towers to
Hughenden (Q.), and on arrival that
night detrucked them. I asked a mate
to hold the leaders while I hooked up
the polers. Given to spouting poetry,
etc., this worthy was barking out some-
thing when the offside leader snatched
his head away, and tore off towards the
main street in the dark. I camped at
the borehead that night, and next morn-
ing found the absconder in a grocer’s
yard. They told me he had gone in to
the stable feedbox and kicked the dining
prad out. Also mentioned that about
four years ago they used to drive him
about in the delivery cart prior to selling
him to a drover. He hadn’t been near
the town since that date. I reckon this
moke had a darn good memory, and that
his action was not the result of repeti-
tive tuition,
* * * *
“B. A. Ker”: I once thought that the
cruellest trap devised by man was the
North Canadian method of catching
ermine. The practice is to coat a knife
with fat and leave it in the snow ; when
the hungry little creature, in licking the
protecting grease, touches the steel its
tongue freezes to the blade. But I’ve
since seen the Australian “jew’s-harp”
method of catching wild pigeons. Pigeon
peas, grains of wheat or cracked corn
are pierced with a needle and threaded
with pieces of cotton two or three inches
long. At the lose end a piece of match
is tied crosswise, and the grain is scat-
tered about. The victim swallows the
bait, but the match lodges across its jaws
like a bit. In struggling to remove the
obstruction the poor creature rolls on its
back, clawing at the sides of the beak —
hence the name “jew’s-harp”—and the
trapper has merely to walk up and cap-
ture the bird. But here is one fellow
who, having once witnessed the crime,
would have to be starving before resort-
ing to such cruelty,
* jJ? *
“Nor’-west”: Reading that yarn about
Joe and his dog Darkie and the copper,
all in an expedition to dynamite the
Murray for fish (B. 27/1 /’43), leads me
to inquire just how long was the fuse
on Joe’s water , bomb, Adding up the
movements of the various parties,
coupled with the fact that the fracture
finally went off —well, I should reckon
the fuse must have been feet long. Now,
in nor’-west W.A., where the dynamiting
of estuaries and bays has become a fine
art, it is customary to cut a fuse of only
two or three inches. Once lit, the bomb
is thrown at once, sinking straight into
the depths and doing its deadly work in
“You're very much like your brother, Mr. Trebuzza."
“Iss; I'm more like 'im than wot ’e's like me."
the minimum of time. In the quiet waters
of the Murray a short fuse would be
ideal. So why Joe used two or three feet
has me tickled. Perhaps he may have
heard of the one-handed men of North
Australia, blokes who delayed just the
fraction of a second before letting the
bomb go. There are even no-handed
men who, having done in the right dock,
thought to continue their “quick and
easy” method of fish-catching with the
other, but again threw just a fraction
too late.
* * * *
“Narrin”: Occasionally one is re-
minded, by red sand-drifts and exposed
white-limestone sheet-rock, of the un-
yielding hatred the pioneers must have
felt for the ocean of mallee that pos-
sessed the land. In the last heat-wave
we were given a wordless commentary
on that old tree-fighting spirit. The
working horses came in from two miles
out to stand in the narrow strips of
shade beside the sheds. Although the
land in places is still black with mallee
stumps there is not a tree in those two
miles. Mallee, bullock-bush, sandalwood,
belar and. native pine are all gone be-
cause they were trees and because, to
take this land, men felt they had first to
conquer the trees.
:*c * * *
“D.R.H.”: A bloke round here has got
himself into the news as the meanest man
in the district. Going into the township
“Gosh, I wish they'd bring up some guns!"
on Saturday night, instead of driving his
car on to the punt and then up to the
picture palace he left it, crossed over and,
with his family, walked up town. As no-
thing like this has been heard of in agri-
cultural circles he’s branded as a stingy
cow. His excuse? Oh, just to save
petroL Dinkum!
“The 0.D.”: The bloke who tried to
“strike a line through scrub or pine” into
new country is worthy of admiration
(B. 24/2 / ’43), and in timbered country
he could be excused for his meandering
track. In western N.S.W., almost bare
of timber and pretty near as level as a
billiard table, there isn’t the same excuse,
yet in the early days the roads wandered
all over the place. There was, of course.
the necessity to dodge crab-holes in river
country and spewy patches in the red-
pine areas, but out on the sunbaked plains
there was no earthly reason why the path-
finders couldn’t head straight, unless it
was because the first of them had sheep
and simply followed the mob as it fos-
sicked the best grass. Even now, with
modern road systems, you have to do
plenty of bending in the N.S.W. flat
country. If you want straight roads
go to the Cabbage Garden ; the place is
almost geometrical.
* * * *
“C.E.”: The fact that he couldn’t read
or write never troubled Charlie till he
started courting Steve’s sister, who was
on holidays. Then, lest the disparaging
rumors prove ruinous to his prospects of
acquiring a real slap-up cook, he decided
something must be done about it. Cadg-
ing a newspaper, he got me to read out
a certain paragraph, bit at a time, and
after several days of mumbling he had
the whole thing off pat. The big play
was staged the following Saturday night
and the scene Steve’s kitchen. Noncha-
lantly, the newspaper was produced, and
Chas. began idly turning the pages. “Hey,
listen t’ this,” he exclaimed presently,
and, boring fixedly into the last page,
recited his piece. The effect exceeded
all expectations. “Mr. Charlie!” gasped
his goggle-eyed audience of one. “You
can read like that?” “Why?” beamed
the broken-down gallant. “Ain’t nuthin'
strange ’bout bein’ a good reader, is
there?” “No, oh, no,” she piped, “but
to read it upside down and so fast!”
* * * *
“Bo”: Jim Hoskins pushed open the
door of the shire clerk's office. “Here,
what’s the strong o’ this, Bert?” he de-
manded. “I get a ‘blue’ for drivin’ me
cows along Warrigal-street. I ain’t bin
pulled up before.” “Well, it’s this way,
Jim,” said Billygoat Flat’s shire clerk.
“The new policeman’s been readin’ the
shire’s by-laws, an’ it says in ’em that it’s
an offence to drive cattle anywhere in
the township except Thompson-crescent.”
Jim Hoskins scratched his head.
“Thompson-crescent!” he said. “Never
heard of it.” “Neither had I,” admitted
Bert. “You see, old Mick Thorne was
the first shire clerk and he copied those
by-laws from a set his nephew sent up
from a Sydney suburb in the old days.
The by-law still stands, and, of course,
anyone breaking it can stop a fine.
You’re a bit stiff, Tom. Trouble is the
shire councillors won’t alter those by-
laws —they reckon they’ve worked all
right for 40 years and that it would only
cause a lot of trouble to muck about
with ’em!”
* * * *
“Solitude”: Seventyfiver was camped
in the hut out on the tops for a few
weeks, but sent in messages by every
stray stockman he could get hold of. The
messages were all the same —an urgent
call for more butter. I was a bit fed up
with his sudden fad, but going that way
myself a few days later decided I might
as well take him one more bundle. He’d
just boiled the billy, so, tossing him the
pack, 1 sat down for lunch. We’d hardly
started when through a crack in the wall
came two lizards. Another entered by
the doorway, and several more through
the floor. The visitors swarmed up the
leg of the bush table, investigated every-
thing within range, and finally settled
round the butter. My comments dripped
satire. “Aw, them,” the old bloke ex-
plained defensively. “Well, I got t’ humor
’em, ain’t I, or the critturs’ll walk out
on me.” He nudged several aside care
fully, and dived in with his knife. “Yair,
they’re good company, them little coots,
an’ they saves a man growin’ into or.c
o’ them blanky idjits that talks t’ them-
selves.”
* * * *
“Rabbit”: Evidently the dictum that
each part of the human body is con-
trolled by a distinct part of the brain
holds good with animals, too. My friend's
dog would stop halfway through a leap
at the cat and limp painfully on three
legs. Since no grass-seed or external in-
jury could be found, a woman “author-
ity” on dogs thought it might be rheuma-
tism (the dog was nine years old). A vef.
finally traced the trouble to a tumor on
the brain.
* * * *
“Mulla-mooshengro”: I am delighted
to hear that dandelions are being pro-
duced as a commercial proposition in
Maoriland (B. 10/2/’43), though I am
not particularly interested in the plant
as a rubber substitute. For ages past
medical science has been aware of the
wholesome properties inherent in this
despised plant. Any chemist will make
up some Decoctum taraxaci for you.
But you can make it up yourself if you
boil an ounce of dandelion root in \\ pints
of water for about 10 minutes. There is
nothing better for the liver. Dandelion
leaves are the foundation of the world s
best salad, and there would be no pimply
faces, no need for lipstick or cosmetics,
if women got acquainted with the dan-
delion, the natural blood-purifier. After
the war I’m going to open a herbeautolo-
gist’s shoppe —selling Decoction taraxaci
at a dollar a swig.
* * * *
“Zake”: Not one Australian in ten
who uses the term “cocky” knows its
derivation. It has nothing to do with the
sulphur-crested fowl, but was the type of
fence favored by the early settlers. As
distinct from the chock-and-log, post-and
rail and others, the cockatoo fence con-
sisted simply of grounded tree-trunks,
with the branches and leaves left on as
a topping.
% * # *
“K.”: Tom Donnison had a 200-acre
block set in the most dismal landscape
around Billyhandle, which is the dreariest
spot this side of Sheol. Every tree on the
block had been rung and grubbed out
years before, except one, a glorious 120 ft.
bluegum that was just off the track from
the house to the road-gate. In that
desert of browned earth that eucalypt
lent a touch of beauty to the unlovely
surroundings. Then one day 1 was stag-
gered to find the arboreal giant felled
and only an ugly sft. stump to mark its
demise. I asked Tom had the white-ants
getting to it caused him to resort to the
axe. “No, it wasn’t them,” drawled
Tom, “but, y’ see, that there tree was
right in line o' the missus s view liom the
kitchen window o’ the roadway from the
township. Now it’s down she s able to
see any visitors cornin’ from the turn-oft
just past the culvert outside Fletcher s
place, an’ that gives her time to have a
cup o’ tea ready by the time they lob
here! ”
THE HOME TRACK.
While, bright sentinels unsleeping,
Watchful stars were shining late,
Eyes upon a home-track keeping
Stood a woman at a gate.
Eyes alert and ears that listened.
There she stood, all else aloof,
While the dew of midnight glistened
On her far outstation roof.
Where daylong a plain that shimmered
Through the heat had dazed her eyes,
Now night showed a track that glimmered
Faintly ’neath the star-sown skies.
Still was all, with no wind bringing
Aught that told of life astir,
Save that, now and then, the singing
Of a lone bird came to her.
Lonesome there ’neath skies star-studded,
All at once she grew aware
Of a horses’s hoofs that thudded
Dully on the dewy air,
Bird and birdsong isolating,
Isolating all around;
Stirless stood she, watching, waiting,
Senses centred on that sound.
Riding like a guest belated
Through the mulga, dense and black,
Wounds forgotten, heart elated,
Spurred he up the shadowed track.
Like all rovers worn with roving,
Journeys done and home ahead,
Now from war, as oft from droving,
To her arms he gaily sped.
n.s.w.
RODERIC QUINN.


£0
O
AUSTRALIAN - HADE
)
RADIO VALVES
RADIOTRON
AUSTRALIAN GENERAL ELECTRIC PROPRIETARY LID..
93 Clarence Street, Sydney.
AMALGAMATED WIRELESS (A/SIA), LTD.,
72 Clarence Street, Sydney.
Advertisement of Amalgamated Wireless Valve Co. Pty.. Ltd 7
y&nJt
to* DOM !sT,r VA
SUECT...y Of crt WC£
neJ alVesh *..
. **£ZZ£Z? ***
TJ?OW
Australian, Mercantile, Land & Finance
Company, Limited
(INCORPORATED IN ENGLAND IN 1863)
WOOL, FAT STOCK, STORE AND STUD STOCK,
PRODUCE AND PROPERTY SALESMEN
General Manager for Australia; R. SINCLAIR SMITH.
ADVANCES MADE ON GRAZING PROPERTIES, ON STOCK, AND ON
CONSIGNMENTS OF WOOL, SKINS, HIDES, TALLOW, ETC.
LICENSED AUCTIONEERS, STOCK AND STATION AGENTS.
SYDNEY OFFICE: A. M. MURDOCH, Manager.
ALSO AT MELBOURNE, BRISBANE, NEWCASTLE, WAGGA, HENTY, HAY, MOREL,
TOWNSVILLE, CHARLEVILLE, BUENOS AIRES, LONDON.
GENERAL AGENTS IN NEW SOUTH WALES FOR NORTHERN ASSURANCE CO.. LTD.
THE MAN ON
THE LAND
"DON'T WORRY, I'M SENDING IT TO
GRAZCOS.""
Lambs Up North
“Thargo”: It’s a wonder more Darling
Downs lamb men don’t go in for Corrie-
dales. They give a dotfble crop-prime
,
hit by blowflies Generally, the return
from a flock of good Corriedales will
better that from the same number of
0., , „
memos running on fair to good Downs
country
Keep them pure, if you can. It II cos
a bit. Good Cornedale ewes are highly
priced and good rams are even dearer,
but it pays to have ’em If you must
cross, use pure Cornedale rams on the
biggest, strongest-woolled merino ewes
you can get. That means culling, of
course. Get the wether drop off as fat
lambs if the season gives you a go ; if
it doesn’t, they’ll carry over as wool-
bearers and still have a value. Keep the
best of the ewe-lambs for breeding.
What Queensland needs in lambs is
uniformity, and for that you must have
good crossbred lamb mothers. Next to
Corriedales comes a cross with long-
woolled British rams on the biggest and
boldest merino ewes. Romneys and
Borders are good rams for the job, since
both produce a cross that carries useful
wool. Crossbred wool is worth growing
these days.
Southdowns and Dorset Horns are ex-
cellent lamb producers, but are short-
woolled types. Don’t buy rams of either
breed that are too darkly-colored on face
and points ; they want to have a uniform
mousy look about them. Look for a
short, full neck set well into the shoulders
and watch breech formation, which
should run closer to a U than to the
too-common V shape. A low-set, deep
shiep is the type, having good color and
standing square and full of masculinity,
—r-
Tar Brands.
“Steve the Stenciller”: The most con-
slant complaint from wool processers is
about the tar brand. Sheepmen must
have a brand that can be read easily at
any time for a year. The difficulty is to
discover such a branding fluid that will
sennr out nf the fleece
A. C. T. Hewitt, the Victorian Agricul-
tural Department expert, points out that
the best are those that dry quickly, won’t
melt in heat or dissolve in rain ; they
contain coloring made of pigments as
distinct from dyes, and hot scouring solu-
tions don’t affect ’em. Manufacturers
either cut the brands out for light-colored
materials or depend on carding to remove
them when processing for colored goods,
Makers of reputable fluids don’t use tar
or pitch, because neither dries thoroughly
and both are apt to run during scouring
and stain the rest of the wool.
Most branding troubles are caused by
sheepmen who use tar, or mix their own
fluid with 'L with non-drying oils, pitch,
e ( tc - W h “ fleeces carrying that sort of
stuff h.t the scour therei trouble. Good
"
* »*>• ”I^gives
. °* ta , r J or sheep J flilTr
trouble m the scour. Some of the tar
] s :lol,nc . to . s 1 , , nrdi'narv tar
holm tar is lust as bad as ordinary tar.
are p J, enty of disinfectant dress .
. and blowfly solutions which are as
* fo /wounds and which will
f oac ;i„
sc °” ° ut of the fleece easily.
p astures for N . S . W . S l opes .
* a r
“H.C.”: Methods differ accoiding to
locality. In some parts you can now
Wimmera rye and lucerne with the last
crop of wheat, then turn the land ovei to
grazing for five or six years. In dry
seasons Sow lucerne and grasses on tal-
lowed ground without wheat; the cereal
takes the moisture in dry times,
Turning over poor pasture with the
plough or disc cultivator and sowing it
with a mixture of grasses or clovers often
converts it into good teed. In some
areas grasses and clovers can be broad-
cast among the natives,
For general autumn sowing on the
south-west slopes use a mixture of 21b.
lucerne, lib. sub. clover, 21b. Rhodes
grass and 11b. Wimmera rye per acre,
When the soil seems too shallow to carry
lucerne alter this to lib. Wimmera rye,
21b. sub. and 21b. Rhodes. In districts
like Molong and Manildra, where the
soil’s friable, 21b. of Phalaris tuberosa
can replace the Rhodes,
Ori the north-west slopes the black soil
that cracks badly should be sown with
41b. lucerne and lib. Wimmera per acre,
Granite areas deficient in plant-food
material and badly drained can take a
mixture of 41b. Akaroa cocksfoot, 31b.
Wimmera, 21b. red clover, and 21b. mid-
season sub. The clover seed should be
inoculated. Where winter feed is de-
ficient, as about Barraba, 31b. lucerne, 11b.
Pbataris and 11b. Wimmera are needed,
apd 41b perennial rye should be added
or * be parts. A good mam pas-
ture f° r °m paddocks in the north-west
21b. lucerne, 21b- Abodes ap d lib.
Wimmera. Where lucerne won t thrive
s °w 21b. Rhodes and 21b. Wimmera
K possible, sow with a combine, drill
topdressmg machine and mix the seed
with tewt. to lewt. of super, per acre
ffist before sowing. Grazing when the
pl ap ts are five or six inches high helps
them to stool. Four paddocks o. sown
pasture should be the minimum aim.
Overheated Horses,
“Plane Creek”: However hot and
humid the day, a horse able to move
around freely is seldom overheated. But
don’t gallop ’em. Nervous nags or those
that don’t sweat are especially susceptible
to sunstroke or heat apoplexy. There’s
no relief from heat for a nag that sweats
little, and the nervous one knocks heck
out of himself while working. If a non-
sweater starts blowing while at work sack
him at once.
Listlessness and lack of appetite are
symptoms of heat exhaustion. Excitable,
hard-pulling horses should be tied back
in the team, and don’t team a willing
horse with two old rogues.
Light green feed is best for working
horses in hot climates. Avoid giving
corn and similar heating tucker. Plenty
of water is necessary, of course, and keep
rock salt in the mangers at all times. If
they must be worked immediately after
meals give smaller feeds and make the
evening feed large. Hats placed across
the head or loins are no protection
against sunstroke. A veil of light bag-
ging or cloth attached to the headband
and cheek straps of a draught horse’s
winkers will protect the eyes from glare.
Sunstroke is often fatal ; if not, it
leaves its mark on the victim. Cold
water sprayed on the head, neck and
back may bring an unconscious nag
round. Dosing is useless, but quiet, rest
“ If y' fall an' break y'r neck I'll belt the hide of y '.”
and careful feeding may make him suit-
able again for light work.
Young Pigs.
“Jindivick”: It’s leaving it a bit late
to castrate pigs at four months (B.
17/2/’43). Better results are obtained at
from six to eight weeks, preferably just
prior to weaning.
We run the family in a paddock por-
tion of which is separated by a fence
with ports through which the suckers
can pass but not the sow. That way, the
brood quickly becomes used to running
by themselves and there’s little difficulty
when the ports are closed and the sow
drafted back to the breeding pens. Tarn-
worths and Tammy-Berk crosses thrive
under free-running conditions —rape pad-
docks, good grass and bracken-fern pad-
docks for exercise, with pollard and
grain for fattening.
Castrate as soon as practicable. The
pigs appear hardly to notice it and suffer
no setback.
“Mullengah”: Encourage the very
young pig to help himself to food by
providing a few scraps of bread or vege-
tables and some clean drinking water.
He’ll go further afield each day and not
depend entirely on the mother.
“Sailor Bill”: Chop raw pumpkins
into small pieces before feeding to pigs.
Pumpkin seeds are a natural worm
remedy. Too much pumpkin may color
pork or bacon. Molasses also needs
careful handling. Too much can cause
scouring and may affect the meat. Large
swedes, etc., should be chopped in pieces
like pumpkins, but the pigs can harvest
small root crops. Don’t forget that corn,
pollard, milk and grazing are among the
essentials.
Hints for the Farm.
“Farmer Bill”: Exhaustion, fright,
chill, change of quarters or milkers,
fear of pain, weaning of the calf or
congestion of the udder are some of the
reasons why a cow won’t let her milk
down. Try some distraction. Give a
little feed at milking time or place a
calf at the cow’s head. Massage the
teats gently before milking. A hard
milker allowed to nurse the first calf
often lets her milk down easily after
the second calving.
“L.C.”: When a foal turns against its
mother it will often drink her milk from
a billy. If her supply is short, supple-
ment with two parts cow’s milk, one part
water and a little sugar. Constipation
can be relieved with an occasional table-
spoon of paraffin oil.
“Canbelego”: Pick a high spot for the
pit silo to provide good drainage so that
water will not run into it. Red soil is
better than black, which is likely to crack
in dry weather and admit water after
heavy rain. Have the pit close to the
crop to save time and labor.
“Bunda”: An enduring preservative
and inexpensive paint for farm use can
be made by stirring
about 31b. of Port-
land cement into a
gallon of milk —
skim, sour or butter-
milk will do. Add
dry coloring to pro-
duce the tint desired.
The cement will sink
to the bottom of the
bucket, so keep the
mixture well stirred
with a clean stick
while using. Make a
fresh pot for each
day’s work. The
paint can’t be rubbed
or washed off and
will last for years.
“Myrrhee”: When
crating poultry for
market don’t over-
crowd. Closely-
packed birds sweat
and lose quality.
Dirty plumage and
a drab appearance
due to overcrowding
reduce their value.
Clean, fresh stock
find the readiest sale
and bring the high-
est prices. Turkey
crates should be
used for turkeys and
geese to allow the
birds to stand up
in comfort. Four to
six inches of clean straw in the crate will
help make the birds comfortable, keep
them clean and in good condition. Eight
gobblers are enough for one crate; if
extra-good, seven are enough. No more
than ten pair of light-breed fowls or eight
pair of heavy-breed should go into the
standard fowl crate.
“Goulburn”: Collect eggs as fre-
quently as possible during hot weather.
Pack them when they are cooled and get
them away to market at least twice a
week. Any delay is likely to spoil the
sale of the eggs.
“Jindivick”; Australia should have
been producing all its own tobacco long
ago (B. 10/2/’43). Valuable rice- and
flax-growing industries have been estab-
lished in Victoria. Queensland has its
cotton and cane industries. None of
these is native to Australia and none
has been established without much study
and experimenting. Some years ago Mel-
bourne citizens were producing tobacco
seedlings in boxes for sale to the Ovens
River farmers, where they were developed
into marketable leaf which was not so
subject to mould as the local seedling.
Technical investigation into all phases of
tobacco production could well result in
an Australian product capable of claim-
ing a market on its own merits.
“Bundalinga”: Gympie (Q.) butter
factory recently produced nearly 1261-
tons of butter in a week, and broke its
own Australian record, made in 1939,
by more than tons. It now claims a
new Australian record for a month’s pro-
duction with over tons in January,
1943.


iSm
10 for 1/1
20 for 2/2
they never vary
CRAVES T
Carreras Ltd.-154 Years’ Reputation for Quality
Save - or Slave. Put
all you've got into £lO
National Savings Bonds.
5063 a
UNCABLED ADDITIONS
Airman Overhead.
(Told by Hanson Baldwin in N.Y. “Times
Magazine.”)
It is after the Battle of the Coral Sea.
One of our aircraft-carriers is pounding
hard toward the south, cruisers and de-
stroyers flanking and screening her. She
has been in battle, but most of her ’planes
are back, settled like tired birds on the
broad white bosom of her deck. Some
will never return ; a few are still up there
somewhere trying to find their “flat-top.”
The weather closes in and the twilight
comes with a rush —and the dark.
They are all back now, except one.
He’s up there, somewhere, circling,
circling ; but he can’t find her, and his
gas is running low. They try to bring
him in, coaching him over the radio,
turning the ship, giving him his bearing.
He answers, cheerfully and quickly, each
command. But it’s na good—and there’s
a Jap task force near by. The officers
turn away from the radio, grim and silent,
as the last order goes out:
“I guess it’s no go, old man. We have
to be moving. Your course to nearest
land is two-seven-three; distance . . .
(there’s a pause) . . . 350 miles. Good
luck.”
There’s silence. Then into the ear-
phones, loud and strong, from somewhere
in the skies, comes a voice unwavering
and unafraid:
“Okay and thanks. Guess I’ll get
going. Good luck to you !”
It is the fitting valedictory.
MacArthur’s Stock Rises.
(Condensed from an article by Joseph C.
Harsch, Washington correspondent of the
“Christian Science Monitor.”)
General Douglas MacArthur’s stock is
going up steadily in Washington. It is a
reasonable prediction that the day which
sees the successful culmination of the
New Guinea and Solomons campaigns at
Rabaul will also witness a solution of the
divided command in the Southern Pacific
which will increase General MacArthur’s
area of authority.
It may come as a surprise that his
stock was not always so high in Washing-
ton. The fact is that at the time when he
was receiving general public adulation
two phases of the Philippines campaign
were causing him considerable adverse
criticism.
One was his unorthodox insistence on
thinking of the Philippines in terms of a
position which could be held. Plans
drawn previous to his arrival in that area
contemplated a campaign intended to
hurt the enemy as much as possible. But
they did not contemplate any serious
attempt to hold the islands indefinitely.
There was strong criticism in some com-
petent military quarters of his departure
from this basic premise and his repeated
appeals from Bataan for reinforcements.
The argument among critics of his
strategy was that he should have planned
a withdrawal from the start and avoided
what some of them considered to have
been an attempt to blackjack Washington
to sending him reinforcements.
The other thing which hurt his prestige
was the tone of his communiques, which
were regarded as being overdramatic.
This professional disapproval of
General MacArthur, of course, was wel-
comed in some political quarters dis-
turbed by the extraordinary public popu-
larity of the general. The result, stating
it colloquially, was to put him in the
Washington dog house.
His prestige has recovered and is going
steadily upwards now because (a) he took
his disappointments like a soldier, (6) his
campaign in New Guinea has gone well,
and (c) with his own front well stocked
with Japanese he has still done every-
thing possible to help the Navy, which
has encountered rough going in the
Solomons.
When the Navy found itself in real
trouble and General MacArthur was in
a position to help it, he did so. Of
course, that was to be expected from any
real soldier. Yet, considering that the
Navy left General MacArthur to his fate
in the Philippines when he was the one in
trouble and asked for help, it would have
been an understandable human reaction
for him to exert something less than
maximum energy in its behalf when
the tables were turned. A small or petty
man might have felt vindictive in the cir-
cumstances.
The fact that Douglas MacArthur has
done everything he could to help the
Navy has been recognised and appre-
ciated, especially by the Navy, which
knows that he must have some lingering
feelings of resentment over having been
abandoned by it in the earlier campaign.
This combination of circumstances has
wiped out an earlier tendency among
many to criticise the always colorful
“hero of Bataan” and to give him a new
professional stature above what he ever
enjoyed before.
In Japan Today.
(Condensed from a “Collier's” article by Robert
Bellaire, former U.S. United Press correspon-
dent in Tokyo.)
It’s choice more than necessity, sacri-
fices more than shortages that make the
Jap “pull in his belt.” He believes that
total war demands total effort.
Every Jap, from the youngest school-
child to the oldest peasant, is undergoing,
with scarcely any complaint, discomforts
and privations which would bring yelps
of anguish and indignation from almost
any other country in the world.
Japanese civilians are eating one-third
as much as they did ten years ago. All
food is rationed at that level. This is
not so much a matter of food shortages
in Japan. Essentially, it is a matter of
conserving by 66 per cent, the man-power
and transportation facilities which would
be required to bring food to civilians.
The manufacture of civilian clothing
from wool, cotton, linen and even silk
is forbidden by law. All clothing must
be made of sufu —artificial material
derived from wood pulp. This clothing
is rationed to the point where the aver-
age Japanese barely manages to keep
clothed. But it has permitted Japan to
divert 90 per cent, of her vast textile
industry to the production of war
materials.
Japanese shoes are now made of card-
board and rationed at the rate of one
pair per year. They will wear about a
month. When they are gone, nothing is
available but wooden shoes and grass
sandals.
The use of private automobiles for any
and all purposes has been abolished.
Buses and street-cars have been reduced
to the point where only half the city
workers and students can ride to the fac-
tories and schools. The others walk,
often eight to ten miles a day. A Gov-
ernment permit is required to buy a rail-
road ticket, and the journey must be
necessary.
The Japanese worker never had a
forty-hour week. He had a seventy-five-
hour week, but now it is a ninety-eight-
hour week, with one Sunday off each
month. All workers are registered. They
accept assignments for training and duty
exactly as if they were in the regular
army.
The consumption of gas, water and
electricity in all Japanese households is
set by law, at a fixed rate of about 30
per cent, of pre-war consumption. If
the quotas are exceeded, a heavy fine is
imposed. If the offence is repeated, the
offender is punished by having all his
public-utility facilities shut off.
Japanese students have no leisure time
whatever. All are registered by the Gov-
ernment and assigned to war work after
school hours and during summer vaca-
tions. They work in factories, on farms,
on road building, on the docks, and as
auxiliary police and firemen —wherever
they can replace older men who can join
the Army.
Yanks Up North.
[Condensed from an “Air Facts” (U.S.A.)
article by Lucien Hubbard, who wrote “U.S.
Airmen at Darwin” (“Uncabled Additions,”
17/2/’43). The writer is the U.S. picture pro-
ducer whose films include “Wings,” first of
the big airplane movies.]
If he is smart, the pilot brought down
in this north-west combat area of Aus-
tralia will find his ’plane, climb up on it
and wait for someone to come after him.
If he starts out the chances are he will
never come out alive. His wrecked
’plane, however, is probably visible from
above, and if he stays by it, keeps calm
and husbands the water in his canteen he
is likely to live and fight another day.
Eventually they come, by air or land
or both, and get him. Sooner or later
a bulldozer will crash its way through
the matted growth or a lugger will feel
its way up a near-by creek. For Uncle
Sam needs that twisted metal and those
tangled wires. If the fuselage is in one
piece it wifi some day fly again. If not,
every part that can be straightened and
cleaned will be salvaged. Airplane parts
which have made the long sea trip from
America are worth more than diamonds
here.
Every crashed ’plane in this remote
Australian bush is a special problem of
recovery for our Materiel Squadron,
whose job is to see that combat units have
’planes to fly with.
A Materiel Squadron has a man-size
job, even in the United States. Trans-
plant it to a country like that around Port
Darwin, make it take care of fighters
who go up every few days to meet Jap
bombers and their Zero escorts, stretch
its workshop to include 150,000 square
miles of untracked jungb, and you have
some idea of the work of the X Materiel
Squadron, U.S. Army Air Forces, in
whose camp I spent some days.
Those days, more than any others that
I passed in various sections of the Aus-
tralian front, convinced me that we are
going to win this war. For there I saw
America at work. It was unglamorous,
hard, dirty, skilled, imaginative work, the
work of men trained to master machines
and calling for daring improvisation and
ingenuity.
The squadron’s camp is a thousand
miles from nowhere. To reach it, after
debarking at Brisbane, the outfit had to
travel 2800 miles by truck. The long
convoy, many of its trucks pulling 20-ton
trailers, wound across deserts and over
mountains, often building its own road
as it went. Finally it crawled out of the
sunbaked badlands like a huge, dusty
caterpillar, and disappeared into the green
depths of the northern jungle. There it
burrowed in, dispersing itself so that if
a stray Japanese ’plane got past the ack-
ack along the coast and past fighter
patrols in the interior it could photo-
graph nothing but trees.
The squadron boasts that, given even
a badly-damaged fuselage to begin with,
it can build a complete airplane right
there in the bush. “And it’d be better
than one right out of the factory,” a
sergeant said proudly, “because all the
parts have been tested in combat.”
The trailers are miniature factories on
wheels, and in them are machines iden-
tical with those of factories at home.
Under one tree is a propeller-shop. A
tent shelters a battery of sewing-machines,
whirring away under the deft fingers of
soldiers stripped to the waist against
tropic heat. Over yonder is the fuselage
works. A trailer is equipped to handle
the delicate job of electrical wiring.
All day the men bend over their clank-
ing and whirring machines, which seem
so out of place in a land of kookaburra
birds and kangaroos. At evening the
bugle sounds, and they form ranks and
march to their camp. They are stationed
near a river, in which they may swim if
they don’t mind the crocodiles. Most
of them prefer the showers. Just before
dusk a baseball game tops off the day.
Major Culbertson, in command, is
neither professional soldier nor mechanic.
He was educated as a chemist and a
geologist. He wears no insignia of rank
and runs his squadron as if it were a
factory.
He realised from the start that in this
lonely country the salvation of his men
lay in discipline and work. When the
first outfit arrived there was no work
to do, so he made work, keeping the
men sweating from morning until night,
grubbing brush, levelling a runway, mak-
ing bleacher seats for the ballground—
anything to keep their mind off their sur-
roundings. Soon, as the fighter squad-
rons went up to meet the Japs, jobs
started to come in. Farther and farther
afield ranged the salvage crews. Now
there is no spot too far or too difficult
to be reached.
There is more to air fighting than
zooming out of a cloud and pulling a
machine-gun trigger. You’ve also got to
keep them flying, and when the sagas of
this war’s heroes are sung not the least
will be that of the soldiers of the wrench
and pliers, whether they be in Santa
Monica or Libya or the Australian bush.
War Criminals.
(New York “Times” welcomes the proposal
to bring war criminals to trial.)
If we consider the Nazis alone, we
know by their own admissions —their own
boasts, indeed—that they have murdered
innocent hostages and slaughtered whole
villages in which they were unable to
prove the guilt, even under their own
jungle laws, of a single individual.
They are butchering people in Norway
for no other offence than that of being
prominent citizens in a land which docs
not willingly accept the Nazi tyranny. The
same story runs through all occupied
Europe. The Nazis are deliberately weed-
ing out the natural leaders of the coun-
tries they propose to enslave.
The men who give these orders, the
men who pass them along, the men who
see to it that they are carried out, can
be identified. Where unqualified guilt
ends and where begins the somewhat
lesser guilt of soldiers under cruel dis-
cipline, whose own lives depend on obey-
ing orders, the Commission can decide.
If Adolf Hitler and any of his immediate
satellites survive this war, there can be
no question where they will stand.
President Roosevelt has made it plain
that no “mass reprisals” are contem-
plated. The guilty are a “small minor-
ity.” We cannot rebuild Lidice and a
thousand other martyred towns by wip-
ing out the inhabitants of an equal num-
ber of German towns.
In saying to murderers that they
need not hope for mercy we are saying
to every German who tries to be as
decent as his tyrants will let him that our
quarrel with him will end when he lays
down his arms. We need not make the
mistake of saying that this war is not
against the German people. It is against


fl/ia/i /.
Alkali is the general name given to certain
chemicals—literally, it is Arabic for ashes
of wood. The principal alkalis are Caustic
Soda, Bicarbonate of Soda and Soda Ash.
Their importance to modern civilization
may be judged from the fact that neither
soap nor glass can be made without them.
These chemicals, once imported, are now
produced in Australia —by Australians
using salt from sea water and limestone
from the earth.
IMPERIAL CHEMICAL INDUSTRIES
OF AUSTRALIA & NEW ZEALAND LTD.
I Cl AN
■SD
■ti-l
%
m
AGA
with an
“SERVANT
PROBLEM”
ended...
Staff problems solve themselves when
cooking equipment is modern, in-
stantly available, easily cleaned and
designed for cool operation with a
minimum of attention.
These ideal service conditions are in-
herent in the AGA Cooker, which
operates on the scientific, efficient heat-
storage principle, burning continu-
ously; cooking fast or slow as you
wish; heavily insulated; and finished
with a sparkling, easily-cleaned,
vitreous-enamelled surface.
You yourself will find the AGA a de-
light to use . . . delicious meals just
cook themselves.
Fuel cost? . . . here is another tre-
mendous AGA advantage! Fuel hills
are almost incredibly low. Take the
AGA Model S.C., for instance, for
city and country homes. it »s
guaranteed not to consume more than
£4/7/6 worth of fuel in a whole
year, with coke at 35/- a ton in the
city. (Freight increases price of fuel
in country, but annual consumption is
so low that amazing economy is pos-
sible anywhere in Australia.) The
AGA Cooker is made in Great Britain.
Over 40,000 are in use in the British
Empire.
AGA Cookers are guaranteed against
faulty material and workmanship for
a period of ten (10) years.
It would be a pleasure to show you
an AGA Cooker, or, if you cannot call,
to send you Illustrated AGA Catalogue
R 3 on request.
4S2SB
JhOriAid wotSiora^.
COOKER
MA » I IM »Alt* I M
LEVIN & CO. LTD.
(Inc. in N.Z.) Established 1852.
45 King Street, Sydney.
432 Bourke Street, Melbourne.
And at Wellington, N.Z.
South Australian Agents :
Colton, Palmer & Preston, Ltd., Adelaide.
Western Australian Agents :
Malloch Bros., Ltd., Perth.
Queensland Agents :
Queensland Primary Producers Co-opera-
tive Assoc., Ltd., Brisbane.
Tasmanian Agents ;
A. G. Webster & Sons, Hobart.
them as long as they fight or work for
t-m bv
Hitler. We mean to disarm t V
torce, it we must, and keep them dis-
armed But we — the people of the United
Nations—are not Nazi savages. The
• u 4. 4? 4-u
punishment of the guilty will mean th
freedom of the innocent.
Dragnet Digest.
(Condensed from various acknowledged
sources.)
It is apparent that whoever makes U.S.
policies is assuming that Japan can be taken
care of after Hitler is beaten, little thinking
perhaps that the job in the Pacific will take
three to five years longer if mistakes in atti-
tude are not soon corrected. Gen. MacArthur
and Admiral Halsey need more ships, more
’planes and more supplies to carry on a major
war. Are they getting these or is too much
being concentrated in America and Britain that
cannot possibly be used till the ships are built
to carry the supplies to the fighting areas?
These are questions which not just laymen
are asking but they reflect the apprehensions of
expert observers. — Washington syndicating writer
David Lawrence.
♦ * * *
From its beginning in 1917 to the wind-up of
war spending in 1919 the 1914-18 war cost the
IJ.S.A. about $26,000,000,000. That seemed a
staggering total. This time in 31 months from
December, 1941, to July, 1944, war will cost
the U.S.A. about $200,000,000,000. And that
may be far from the final figure. Japan is
spending little if any more than $5,000,000,000
a year on war; the British Empire little
more than $20,000,000,000; Germany may be
spending $30,000,000,000; all of Europe
$50,000,000,000. Yet the U.S.A. in the fiscal
year ending June 30 is spending $80,000,000,000;
in the following fiscal year will spend
$100,000,000,000 over all for war. That’s nearly
20 times the Japanese rate, five times the
British Empire, four times the German.
—“United States News.’-’
» * * *
By letting England do all the meat buying
outside the U.S. for the United Nations the
U.S. Administration neatly sidesteps Congres-
sional criticism for serving Argentine
sailors and soldiers. —“ United States News.”
* * * *
The problems of supply in the Pacific are
so tremendous and the amount of equipment
which has been allocated with which to do the
job there is so Woefully inadequate that unless
a change is effected the United States may be
fighting for many years before victory is won.
— N.Y. “Sim” Washington correspondent.
* * * *
As the signs read in Libya, this is another
possession which bids fair to pass from the
Roman Empire as the penalty of waging a
war lor conquest. With the flight of the
Italian colonists, the Libyans have taken over
the farms, lock, stock and barrel. They de-
clare that never again will they give them up,
and are appealing that their independence as a
nation be granted them under the Rooseyelt-
Churchill Atlantic Charter. —Dewitt Macken-
war correspondent in Africa.
* * * *
The vast space across North Africa is dwarfed
by the impression given by maps Printed on a
small scale. At no time m the first world war
anc | not anywhere except in Africa in this war
have any such distances or supply problems
been encountered. Even in Russia there are
railroads and motor roads which are not found
in Africa. Distance is likewise underestimated
when Navy operations in the Pacific are
appraised. Never has any navy been compelled
to fight a major war against an enemy 10,000
from one’s own mainland. N.Y.
“Sun” columnist.
* * * *
Jeanette MacDonald, the actress and singer,
was asked by a pro-Communist ham to lend
her name to a list of sponsors for a “second
front” meeting, of which Charlie Chaplin was to
be chairman and in which Orson Welles was
taking part. In reply, Miss MacDonald wrote that
she thought actors and writers were no more
competent to judge the wisdom of a second front
than General Eisenhower was to conduct a
symphony, and said her husband, Capt. Gene
Raymond, was on active duty in Britain and
had lately participated in air raids on Dieppe
and Rouen. “I have not given up the hope
that Chaplin will find T in his heart to go to
England or even Russia, where he could bring
great joy” to soldiers returning hall-crazed
and exhausted,’ her letter said. As to Orson
Welles, Miss MacDonald hoped he would find
it in his conscience to fight overseas. There
she said, “he can actively participate in the
great second front he so patriotically advo-
cates.” The Communists will try to crucify
Miss MacDonald for that through their guilds
and conspiracies and their Communist reviewers
who smear the work of any actor or writer who
has the courage and patriotism to call them all
what they are.—Westbrook Pegler; N.Y.
“ World-Telegram.
* , . * . . ... ‘
Millions of dollars are being sent into occupied
Europe through secret channels by New York
Sf&STK SSiT.t
funds from underground headquarters,
whose representatives reported that the money
was urg ently needed to repair the guerrilla net-
work p g artly y destr oyed when the Nazis marched
into Vichy territory. N.Y. “Post.”
. , mm-hant
Once they have been torpedoed U S merchant
seamen are entitled to wear a badge lor
pedoed.” Some> seamen sport no Jess than
three such badges, and still sign up lor a
other trip. N.Y. Daily Minor.
m * *
The Republican party rank-and-file like the
Willkie gustiness, the curiosity and hardihood
that put him aboard p anes soaring over the
China deserts. The Willkie outspokenness, his
tangling with President Roosevelt, reassure
them that it is still a free country. On t
other hand, the animosity which any gathering
of Republican organisation politicians displays
toward Willkie is a major phenomenon. One
reporter at the National Committee meeting
in St. Louis last Dec. 7 described it ecstati-
cally as “a lovely hate—full-blown, lush, ex-
pressive, one of the best political hates I’ve
ever seen.” — N.Y. “Daily News.”
If the United States were not at war it
would be stewing in one of its hottest political
turmoils. A great coalition, which ruled the
nation for 10 years, is breaking up. A dynasty
is dying. The explanation of what is happen-
ing to the Roosevelt coalition is: Familiarity
breeds contempt—or at least boredom. The
nation is weary of the same old faces. The
same old faces are weary of each other. —
“Wall-street Journal.”
* * * *
JST&S
Guinea and about the contrast here on the
home front must have searched their con-
sciences and found themselves wanting. “From
what 1 saw,” said this great hard ol: two wars,
“I have come to the conclusion that if they
could bring the combat troops back here and
re,!„ h ri? u Sd f Tto Tavrle”-Tr
3 y
World-Telegram.
TT „ * . * , . , .j,
Hollow-eyed and unshaven, their splotchy
green uniforms caked with filth from two weeks
in the slime around Buna, our troops stalked
invisible Japanese machine-gun nests, routed
out snipers they couldn t see, hurled grenades
and sprayed the jungle with tommy-gun fire.
There was a surface dugout strongly reinforced
KS.I&S2 asaa* rs ss
lots of canned meat, rice and boxes of matches
■
lim B * * *
On fmnthpr front of the battle against in-
Mayor La
Guardia has obtained 20,000 posters citing the
five-day sulfathiazole cure for gonorrhoea. Half
of the posters displayed in subways read:
“Gonorrhoea can be cured safely (a picture of
a box of pills), painlessly (sketch of a man
grinning), quickly (a doctor shaking hands with
a patient) N Y “Mirror ”
a patient).
Heading home after delivering a load of
American soldiers somewhere in the Pacific, an
army transport picked up a bevy of Japs, drift-
ing around after their ship had been torpedoed,
The little men giggled and chattered for a
while, but then became gloomily silent. None
of the Japs could speak English ; no one on
the transport could speak Japanese. “Why
don’t you teach them to sing?” an American
officer suggested to a sergeant who worried
about the heavy brooding. The sergeant found
he knew the chorus of only one song. Trying
it out, he gesticulated invitations to the Japs
to join in. A few tried to sing and seemed to
feel better By evening all were learning he
song. Military authorities felt dizzy when the
transport reached a West Coast port Ihe Jap
prisoners shuffled down the gangplank rad.at-
mg delightastheycarolcdlustily : Gaw Bress
Ermenca! — Colliers, U.S.A.
* * .
In Sheffield (Eng.) conscientious objectors
from the Pacifists’ Service Unit volunteered as
“guinea pigs” to suffer the tortures of ship-
wrecked seamen. This is only one of the
experiments the “conchies” are undergoing
| n co-operation with the Medical Research In-
stitute. To determine whether a limited sup-
ply of water should be drunk freely until it
is gone, or sparingly to make it last, the con-
chies first endured a waterless diet for three
extreme sei in. nicy
nibbled ° n ““« nnd chocolate’
pemmican. maltcd milk ta e d
IJ the Ia bit of M
le „ a n f„ y t 'f nil were the
was an e u • vo i unteers have sub-
r
of the most demoralising diseases of the last
war . They slept in infested beds until they con-
traded the disease. Physicians observed, eyen-
tuaU cured them For suffering risky ordeals
seco^d only t 0 those of active service, the
volunteers reC eive army private’s pay. They
afe d tQ be providing British doctors with
din £ al data for study of a variety of war-time
... “Newsweek.’'’
’** * *
jrr & &
Raiser shipyard ‘ N half y of all
interviewers’ value ; they bring to light con-
ditions which can be corrected to the general
improvement of efficiency and morale, and so
cat down
for the quit desk.— Nation s Business, U.S. .
*
More than one-fourth of all the Jews of
Europe have already died under Nazi r ,
and millions of others_ are doomed unless
sudden and none-too-hkely change takes pla
in what Adolf Hitler refers to as his heart,
Philip Simms; N.Y. “World-Telegram.”
* * * mci
After the war, according to Mr. Hull, ly- -1
Administration s policy will continue a g
the lines of leaving each liberated country
free to adopt the form of government whic
the majority of its own people want adopted,
If some countries adopt forms of government
under which the Four Freedoms will be
to three, two, one or none, apparently that
will be all right, too. Come to think ot it,
we haven’t been hearing as much about t e
Four Freedoms of late as we used to hear,
N.Y. “Sunday News.


Personal and Missing Friends.
RE ISABELLA RAMSAY McKELLAR—
-1.15675. —NOTICE is hereby given that all
persons claiming to be the next-of-kin of ISA-
BELLA RAMSAY McKELLAR, Spinster, late
of Sandgate Road, Nundah, Brisbane, in the
State of Queensland, deceased, are hereby re-
quired to forward proof of their relationship to
the PUBLIC CURATOR, Brisbane, on or be-
fore 11th August, 1943, and that after the ex-
piration of the date mentioned the Public
Curator will proceed to distribute the assets
of the said deceased amongst the parties en-
titled thereto, having regard only to the claims
of which he shall then have had notice.
Protect Your Future With
V
> I
DIESEL
TRAINING
What are you doing about en-
suring your employment after
the war? Now is the time to
equip yourself against the time
when employment may no
longer be plentiful where you are working at
present.
The Diesel Engineering College has trained
hundreds of men who have obtained employ-
ment as Diesel Operators ail over Australia.
It is a comprehensive course
practical men, embracing train-
ing on typical diesel engines.
No textbooks needed. The
course is simple and
easy to follow, and this
field of engineering has
a great future. Send
Coupon for details
NOW or ’phone B 2902.
fd
DIESEL ENGINEERING COLLEGE,
Dept. 14, 255 a George Street, Sydney.
Please send me without obligation your free
booklet, “Diesel Opportunities.”
NAME
ADDRES'S
TiMr
-
rn e
Why carry an
unnecessary burden?
If you are an executor of an estate there must be times when you feel the
strain of this extra and unnecessary burden. In these difficult times, the
responsibility of trusteeship is too often a handicap in the proper supervision
and control- of your own affairs which should be having all your attention.
Why not be relieved of this extra burden? Let Burns Philp Trust Company
Limited take the load from your mind. This permanent institution, under
experienced and capable direction, has the advantage of combined knowledge
of finance, taxation, and investment which no individual executor could be
expected to have. The transfer of responsibility can be made simply and
promptly; and you will have the satisfaction of knowing that the estate will
be administered faithfully, efficiently, and in strict accord with the terms
of the trust.
DIRECTORS—James Burns - Robert John Nosworthy - Lewis Armstrong • Joseph Mitchell
Manager—C. H. Chester
Burns Philp Trust
COMPANY LIMITED
3 BRIDGE STREET. SYDNEY
'HONE: B 7901. Box 543 6. G.P.0., Sydney.
ii
A
A
4*4
■ o
A
o°
A
4i
3-5.
5.%
A
A
f-r
3R
A
3
A
A
A
Ci’*-
A
IS
A
v>-
tai/ui47niu4A>»j.
Tote
Tickets
0r...
Owen. Guns?
Before you make a bet on the tote, think! You are
gambling with men’s lives and with Australia’s
future! The money you waste —for in the long run
you must lose more often than you win—would buy
arms and ammunition for our fighting forces. If
you must bet . . . bet on Australia to win!
SAVE all you can . . . and buy
■ 6° WAR SAVINGS STAMPS ■
£1 WAR SAVINGS CERTIFICATES FOR 16/-
s % " S * •<* • ' '
£lO NATIONAL SAVINGS BONDS
Or make an Advance Subscription to the next War Loan through any Bank,
Savings Bank, or Stockbroker. sn-n.
Service Department.
Information Sought.
(1) What municipal councils in N.S.W. are
obliged, under Local Government Act, to
employ electrical engineers who hold the certifi-
cate of the Department of Local Government ?
(2) Number of such certificates issued that are
still valid?
(1) One hundred and twelve municipal, shire
and county councils conducting public elec-
tricity undertakings, and about 80 other elec-
tricity supply authorities. (2) Two hundred and
forty-four.
(1) Can a civilian now obtain passage from
Australia to England? (2J If so, is air trans-
port available ? (3) Can permission be obtained
to transfer money ?
(1) Passage may be arranged if a passport has
been obtained. (2) No. (3) Applications for
permission to transfer money are decided on
their merits.
How can I burn coral easily and cheaply to
convert it to lime ?
Cheapest form of kiln is an excavation dug in
the side of an earth or rock bank, sufficient
to hold, say, five to ten tons of coral. An
opening in (he front is provided for firing.
Coral and wood are packed in alternate layers,
and in addition wood is fed into the front fire-
hole. A certain amount of wood ash con-
taminates the lime; construction of a brick
kiln is the only way of avoiding that defect.
Recipe for dog biscuits?
Beil sheep’s liver, drain and wipe dry, mince
finely and dry thoroughly in moderate oven.
Mix this dry mince with two parts pollard and
one part bran. Add one tablespoon salt, and
make into stiff dough with the water in which
the liver was cooked. Roll out, cut into cubes,
put on a flat tray and bake in a very slow
oven about one hour.
Brief Answers.
G.R.: A recipe for lemon syrup is: To one
pint of strained lemon juice add 21b. white sugar,
put over low heat and stir till sugar is dissolved.
Put aside for 24 hours, remove scum, decant
the clear liquid and add fl. oz. rectified
spirit M.F.; Get in touch with the Aus-
tralian Cement and Concrete Advisory Board,
14 Spring-street, Sydney W.M.: 2s. 6d. lot-
each additional period of four years... .B.B.:
Department of Agriculture (Division of Animal
Industry)... .W.M.G.: Your application should
be made on the prescribed forms, obtainable
at any post office M.S.: Gentle heating
would cause the mercury particles to reunite....
W.J.H.; The Heffernans and Their Times (7s.
6d.), at Angus and Robertson’s... .M.P.: Alu-
minium paint has been used extensively as a
cooling roof cover; it is scarce n0w....K.L.:
Lye is common caustic soda... .F.D.: Change
the fowl’s diet, giving more green f00d....
R.E.: “Saturday” comes from the Anglo-
Saxon Sdterddg, meaning “the day of Saturn,”
who was the god of time A.L.: C.S.I.R.
Fisheries are anxious to receive such samples.
-.. .K.W.: He would be a toponymist... .L.T.:
After exposing the termite tunnels, run a 2j
per cent, solution of sodium arsenite into them
by means of tubing J.B. and J.J.M.; Infor-
mation on its way.., .G.S.; If they are wrapped
in paper, use liberal quantities of moth crystals
and seal paper with gummed strips M. 8.:
Price would be about £5O C.S.: Herbert
Marshall was born in 1890 S.T.: If they are
in the flour before it is tinned they will, most
probably, multiply F.A.D.: Ministers Law-
son and Cameron; Senators Brand and
Sampson... .E.L.: Spearfelt won the 1926 Mel-
bourne Cup....J.P.: Application for a pension
may be made on the prescribed form, obtainable
any post office A.W.: The behavior of the
earth’s magnetic field is not yet fully under-
stood, and the variations of the compass from
true north cannot be predicted for future years.
T.P.: The best method is by cyanide fumi-
gation (a task for the expert) N.F.;
“Hamlet —Prince of Denmark”... .W.L.: Ac-
cording to international law, he should receive
two-sevenths of his pay from the country hold-
ing him prisoner... .T.S.: Get in touch with
Davis Gelatine, Ltd., Sydney... .M.H. : The
valuer’s fees on land not exceeding £2OOO are up
to £2 2s. Where the value does not exceed £lO,OOO
the fees are £1 Is. per £lOOO of value... .R.Y. :
The Savoy operas... .S.T.: Get in touch with
the Council for Scientific and Industrial Re-
search, Fisheries Section, Cronulla, N.S.W
T.E.: An ordinary six-volt car battery would
be best C.R.: No information of that kind
can be issued by the naval authorities N.G.:
To obtain a passport you must produce evi-
dence that the travel is essential C.M.R.;
Department of Agriculture, Brisbane, could
supply the leaflet... .R.F.K.: Lord Edward
Spencer Churchill was the son of the sixth Duke
of Marlborough. Further details on their way.
. ...F.E.P.: Those holes apart on the cribbage
board are the finishing points; they are called,
according to Hoyle Up to Date, “home’ or
“game” holes.
Answers to Correspondents
Name arid address must appear on the MS. No
liability is undertaken re contributions vuluntaniy
submitted; and no MS. will be returned unless
stamps accompany. MS. should be addressed to
the Editor.
The Muse aroused: —•
F.R.C.:
The heyday of his bloodlust past,
The Ilun is on the run at last—
World conquering by anyone
lie had to learn can not be done.
T.N.:
Pluto, foul Stygian Monarch,
Did never devise such spectacle.
The Dragon, threshing at the Nation’s door,
Invokes the wrath of Freedom’s Guards,
Who sally forth in battle raiment dressed,
With minds by the love of Heritage obsessed.
Other men, who claim this same Heritage as sire,
Must be denied the glory of such brotherhood,
And be forced to grapple in the political mire.
Beneath which hides the Devil’s Brood
Of Beings their fathers allowed to spawn.
God help them! That they may see tire dawn.
Z.T.:
When peace descends on earth again
And in happiness we can repose,
May our lives be sweet and perfect
Like James Ballard’s beautiful rose.
H.H.W.: Close K.T.: Errol is fluttering
back.... B.B.: Even if you had to find a rhyme
for “Digger,” that’s no excuse for the’ line
“It’s men like him that make our fame grow
bigger”... .L.S.: “Man of War” and “Atomo-
nan” might have something to say; but they
say it too vaguely... .P.V.: Elves and fairies
dance not here... .H.T.M.: Too many echoes.
. ...G.W.: Not equal to the theme D.C.L.;
Rooney and Maloney fight on flat feet
E.M.T.: Too chirpy... .H.T.8.: Keep it in
the family circle N.K.: Polished, and with a
stronger conclusion, “Raining Morning” would
stand a chance... .D.P.: Far-fetched... .J. 8.:
The old bay horse should be delighted with it.


• •
It was a
good day for us
when we bought
Feltex
lC
K\
■~7
\\
V
k
7.
Kj
•.. fIOW we’re free to buy
National Savings hands”
FELT AND TEXTILES OF AUSTRALIA LTD.
Manufacturen of FELTEX Floor Coverings
The Greater
Your Estate
The Greater Your Responsibility
T hose who carry the responsibility
of property ownership owe it to
themselves as well as to their depen-
dants to share that responsibility
with others worthy of their trust.
They should draw upon the pooled
wisdom and advice of experienced
men to guide them while they live;
they should so make their disposi-
tions and appoint their executors to
ensure that their intentions will be
correctly and faithfully interpreted.
The Union Trustee Company, after
over 50 years of trusted service, and
the handling of tens of millions of
pounds worth of assets, completely
meets all these requirements.
The Union Trustee is a manager who
knows by mature and varied experi-
ence, an executor who never dies nor
grows old nor weary, who is always
independent and favours none, yet is
friendly and approachable.
The greater your estate the greater
your responsibility, and the greater
your need of expert and permanentlv
dependable service.
For further information consult
The Union Trustee
COMPANY OF AUSTRALIA LIMITED
Established 1883
2 O’CONNELL STREET, SYDNEY
N.S.W. DIRECTORATE:
Hon. Sir Henry Braddon, K.B.E. (Chairman); Colin A. Sinclair
(Vice-Chairman); Hon. Sir Graham Waddell, K.8.E., M.L.C.;
Ja’mes Kidd; A. E. Heath, C.M.G.; Robert C. Wilson.
Manager: J. G. H. Shipway.
d
The WILD
CAT
COLUMN
The T. and G.
Ordinary Life Department.
Added to Assurance
Sept., Income. Expenses. Claims. Funds. Funds.
£>££,£ £
’35 2,048,039 304,532 791,521 951,986 10,903,619
’36 2,252,513 341,548 760,221 1,150,744 12,054,363
’37 2,455,024 380,343 817,855 1,256,826 13,311,189
’3B 2,672,551 381,388 867,986 1,423,177 14,734,306
Written off premises, £10,000.. .. 14,724,306
’39 2,870,889 390.033 972,094 1,-508,762 16,233,128
AVritten off premises, £10,600.. .. 16,222,525
’4O 3,056,735 408,060 1,102,177 1,546,498 17,769,026
AA’ritten off premises, £12,530.. .. 17,756,490
To contingency fund, £52,500. . . . 17,703,996
’4l 3,251,974 466,286 1,170,241 1,615,447 19,319,443
Written off premises, £18,871.. .. 19,300,572
To contingency fund, £50,000. . . . 19,250,572
’42 3,436,998 477,616 1,210,526 1,748,856 20,999,428
AVritten off premises, £13,796.. .. 20,985,632
To contingency fund, £70,000.. .. 20,915,632
Industrial Life Department.
’35 2,436,215 709,995 555,123 1,171,097 11,463,511
’36 2,627,311 755,398 857.907 1,014,006 12,477,517
’37 2,824,455 798,805 1,070,236 955,414 13,432,931
’3B 3,010,170 836,831 1,224,800 948,539 14,381,470
AA’rittcn off premises, £10,000.. .. 14,371,470
’39 3,116,960 859,460 1,428,731 828,769 15,200,239
AA’ritten off premises, £10,600.. .. 15,189,639
’4O 3,255,367 914,594 1,679,556 661,217 15,850,856
AVritten off premises, £11,220.. .. 15,839,636
To contingency fund, £47,000.. .. 15,792,636
’4l 3.379,107 981,163 1,740,427 657,517 16,450,153
AA’ritten off premises, £17,056.. .. 16,433,097
To contingency fund, £10,000.. .. 16,423,097
’42 3,516,115 997,072 1,825,052 693,991 17,117,088
AVritten off premises, £11,974.. .. 17,105,114
To contingency fund, £25,000. . . . 17,080,114
Accident Department.
’4O 162,732 62,218 69,910 30,604 211,890
To contingency fund, £5OO .. .. 211,390
’4l 164,124 77,844 60,072 26,708 238,098
To contingency fund, £40,000. . . . 198,098
’42 154,222 76,410 58,454 19,358 217,456
To contingency fund, £so'oo. . . . 212,456
Chief effect of war upon the business
thus far has been a cut in bonus rates,
a common experience. It has been due
mainly to provision for war contingen-
cies, to preparation for development of
future strength by lowering the basis of
valuation, and to the comparatively low
level at which official control and taxa-
tion have kept interest and rents.
Last term there was a contraction of
£2,768,996 in the aggregate amount of
new contracts written, £12,058,342 —
£6,652,447 (down £1,709,021) in the Ordi-
nary and £5,405,895 (down £1,059,975)
in the Industrial department. Chief ob-
stacle was shortage of staff, owing to
enlistments and call-ups, to pursue and
write new contracts, of which 38 p.c.
were additional assurances taken out by
existing policy-holders.
There was a spring of £312,129 in
gross income, £7,107,335, made up of
premiums, etc., £5,475,780 (up £245,126)
and interest, rents, etc., £1,631,555 (up
£67,003). After paying all legitimate
claims and exes., including an extra
£42,222 in taxation, etc. (£222,054),
£2,462,205 (up £162,533) remained, of
which £IOO,OOO was sent to the contin-
gency reserve (now £867,556), £25,770
was written off the book value of pre-
mises and £2,336,435 was added to assur-
ance funds, etc., raising them to
£38,208,202. The contingency fund be-
longs to policy-holders, there being no
shareholders, and helps to swell the
volume of investments and returns there-
from.
The addition to assurance funds ex-
ceeded what the actuary figured would
be wanted to meet liabilities under poli-
cies as they fall due by £794,308:
Net surplus;— 1938. 1940. 1941. 1942.
Ordinary . . £533,511 £586,776 £582,736 £521,315
Industrial .. 410,551 352,951 312,239 272,993
Total . . £944,062 £939,727 £894,975 £794,308
The contraction of £100,667 in last year’s
net surplus was mainly on account of the
addition to contingency funds and the
extra policy reserves required to meet the
recent reduction in the basis of valua-
tion from 3 p.c. to a stringent 2f p.c.,
excepting pure endowments, still valued
at 3 p.c. Policy-holders should reap the
benefit of this as their contracts grow
older. After deducting taxation, the net
interest earned on mean funds was £3
15s. lid. p.c., or 3s. 7d. p.c. less than
for the previous term.
Of the year’s surplus, £254,639 (down
£215,473) was distributed as reversionary
bonuses in the Ordinary and £174,774
(down £110,987) in the Industrial sec-
tion. The balance in each department
was carried forward as a protection
against war contingencies, strain of
which has not seriously affected the busi-
ness to date. If reserves exceed require-
ments for this purpose, what is left will
become available for distribution later.
Meanwhile, bonus rates are still satis-
factory. And the board has taken
steps to protect policy-holders against the
possible continuance of low interest rates
in the future. Another feature is a re-
duction in the expense rate, which was
14.6 p.c. of net premiums in the Ordi-
nary and 32.5 p.c. in the industrial sec-
tion as against 15.8 p.c. and 34.1 p.c.
respectively for the previous year.
Here is the investment portfolio in
tabloid form: —-
Public 1941. p.c. 1942. p.c.
securities . . £20,481,582 55.3 £22,998,978 58.2
Loans . . . . 12,470,232 33.7 12,499,789 31.6
Freeholds . . 3,140,356 8.6 3,112,566 7.9
Cash, book debts,
etc 945,642 2.5 906,705 2.3
The whole of last year’s excess of incom-
ings over outgoings, and more besides,
was invested in public securities (up
£2,517,396) and loans on mortgage, etc.
(up £29,557). The society is thus a sub-
stantial financial contributor to the war
effort.
Rosella Preserving and Manufacturing
To Re- Nominal
Sept., Profit. Dividends. serves. Reserves.
£ £ £ £
1932.. 32,538 8 p.c. = 28.000 4,538 66,269
1933.. 26,575 7 „ ~ 24,796 1,779 68,048
1934.. 35,861 8 „ „ 29,600 6,261 74.309
1935.. 39,481 9 „ „ 33,800 6,182 80.490
1936.. 43,948 10 „ ~ 37,000 6,948 87,438
Share premiums, £8692 .. .. 96,130
1937.. 47.690 10 p.c. = 39,178 8,512 104.642
1938.. 51,875 11 „ ~44,000 7,875 112,517
Goodwill disclosed, £30,429 .. 82,088
1939. . 69.891 124 p.c. = 50,000 9,891 91,979
1940.. 56,173 12* „,, 48,000 8,173 100,152
Rosella Preserving and Subsidiaries.
Added goodwill, £33 .. .. 131,663
1941.. 55,348 12 p.c. = 48,000 7,348 139,011
1942.. 53,720 12 „ ~ 48,000 5,720 144,731
Food, fortunately naturally plentiful, has
been scarcely the best-conducted of our
war activities. On the growing side there
has been man-power and price bungling.
As regards processing and preserving,
little co-ordination or balancing of can-
nery outputs was noticeable early, and
much confusion still exists because of a
plethora of Government departments
that aren’t certain where their own
authority ends and others’ begins—im-
portation, production, shipping, organi-
sation and distribution are matters in
point. “It is exasperating to industry
to find all its plans to speed up produc-
tion so frequently hindered by bureau-
cratic influences,” despairs chairman
Cato in this form-filling era.
Rosella turns out high-grade canned
fruits, jams, condiments, etc., from a
brace of efficient factories in Vic., an-
other pair in N.S.W., a fifth in S. Aus.
and a sixth in Tas. The profitable ex-
port trade which had been built up with
Britain, India and other Asian countries
“has been practically cut off.” Still,
with two armies to provision—our own
and our Allies’ —there was a substantial
increase in sales to meet local require-
ments. Government contracts, however,
which comprise 80 p.c. of output, are
executed at cost or very little over, and,
with the need to conserve tin-plate, have
meant a restriction of both the volume
and variety of civilian packs, which may
be cut further.
This relative restriction of earning
opportunities is obscured in the profit
table because of heavy 1941 overprovi-
sion for taxation (£97,000, up £75,000).
After replenishing whatever was drawn
from tax reserve last year and striking
off £11,382 for depreciation, a consoli-
dated profit £1628 lower at £53,720
showed up. That was 13.4 p.c. on capi-
tal, against 13.9 p.c. the year before, and
the 12 p.c. div. was repeated. Rosella’s
average 10.3 p.c. distribution of the past
decade and its conservative valuation of
assets should be comforting features to
those pondering the effect of increased
capacities on the long-term future of the
industry.
To keep the co.’s products before the
public eye, steps are being taken to en-
large manufacturing facilities in both
Sydney and Adelaide, even though this
may not prove profitable:
( - Parent f— Consolidated— N
1935. 1938. 1941. 1942.
Capital . . £370,000 £400,000 £400,000 £400,000
Creditors,
deposits, etc. 15,878 49,678 1177,266 +161,383
K'So. } ’S
Stock.. .. 202,254 286,925 364,594 244,642
Debtors . . 73,037 89,384 84,346 109,07.3
Cash, invest-
ments, etc. 6,224 1,767 44,150 132.725
* Including goodwill, etc, t Including tax reserve.
Government purchases are reflected in
the reduction of £119,952 in stocks and
accompanying increment of £88,575 in
the cash holding. The balance of manu-
factured goods is since reported to have
been well cleaned up, and processing is
proceeding to the limit of labor and sup-
plies available, seasonal conditions being
patchy. The tin-plate position is
reckoned satisfactory. Creditors include
tax provision of £97,000, which is ob-
viously ample.
“Truth” and “Sportsman,” Ltd.
r Dividends
, Pref. \
June, Profit. 9 p.c. 8 p.c. Ord. Deficit.
£ £ £ £ £
1932.. 26,945 74811 6650 5 p.c. = 10,000 72,813
1933.. 29,890 7275 t 6500 64 „ „ 13,000 69,698
Contingency reserve taken in, £6052.. 63,646
Unexplained addition, £13,019 .. 50,627
1934.. 42.406 9000 8000 10 p.c. = 20,000 45,221
Special depreciation, £4OOO .. .. 49,221
1935.. 42,761 9000 8000 10 p.c. = 20,000 43,460
Special depreciation, £4OOO .. .. 47,460
Establishment a/c disappears, £10,537.. 36,923
Added goodwill, £16,287 .. •• 53,210
Capital reserve appears, £30,000 . . 23,210
1936.. 44,942 9000 8000 12 p.c. - 25,021 20,289
Special depreciation, £2OOO .. .. 22,289
Goodwill disappears, £1671 .. •• 20,618
Share premiums, £15,000 .. •• 5,618
Share issue exes, w/o, £1671 .. •• 7,289
1937.. 52,643 9000 8000 10 p.c. - 25,375 t ljo2l
Special depreciation, £4OOO .. •• 5
Reserves.
1938.. 54,563 9000 8000 10 p.c. = 26,000 1
Written off, £lBB5 .. .. •• jr 3,657
Special depreciation, £5OOO .. •• J
1939.. 40,094 69751 62001 6 p.c. = 16,800 \ g 776
Special depreciation. £5OOO .. .. 1
Surplus sale property, £4275 .. .. 13,051
1940.. 20,336 69751 62001 3 p.c. = 9,000 11,212
Expenses charged to goodwill, £7396. . 3,816
1941.. 31,558 69751 62001 6 p.c. = 18,000 4,199
1942.. 34,035 69751 62001 6 ~ „ 18,000 7,059
* Nine months. 1 Pref. div. subject to Interest
Reduction Act.
“Truth’s” young sister the “Daily Mir-
ror” appears to be getting somewhere.
The board states that after a full twelve
months’ operations the new member of
the family is continuing to receive “solid
support.” Readers and advertisers are
both helping, it is said. Whether the
youngster achieved profit or loss in its
first full year is not known outside the
board-room.
It is clear, though, that the “Mirror”
has cost little for dress and establish-
ment. Expenses charged to goodwill ran
to £7396, and that is but a trifle to what
new publications launched by other
organisations in the past have cost.
Newsprint rationing actually helped keep
outgoings down and swing advertising
the co.’s way, as well as limit the com-
petition Associated, which publishes the
other evening sheet, could bring to bear.
Capital costs, too, don’t appear to have
been heavy, extensions made in preced-
ing years having been capable of taking
the extra strain on machine and compos-
ing rooms.
After providing something for taxation
and setting aside £16,528 (against £16,729)
for depreciation, net profit from the
whole organisation was stated £2477
higher at £34,035. The prefs. were sub-
jected to the statutory 11\ p.c. cut. and
the ord. payout was 6 p.c., as in 1941,
the lot calling for £2860 less than declared
earnings. Smaller papers haven’t helped
revenues ; at the same time, however, they
have brought substantial production
economies, particularly in the newsprint


—Have you an idea worth patenting?
Griffith, Hassel and Griffith, Patent Attorneys,
Asbestos House, Cr. York and Barrack Streets, Sydney,
obtain Commonwealth and foreign patents.—Advt.
* * * *
DAYIBS & COLL1SON, Patent Attorneys, Collins
House, 360 Collins Street, Melbourne, C.l. Austra-
lian and overseas Patents and Trade Marks.—Advt.
Australia must and will
be ready for any emergency
Every branch of industry is willingly shouldering its share of to-day’s
war burdens, determined—with Mr. Churchill to “prosecute this war
to a victorious finish.”
THATCHER & OBERG are working with every resource at their
command, providing Timber supplies for Australia’s vital and essential
Defence measures. We, in Australia, must realise the value of co-
operation—for truly, in Unity lies Strength.
THATCHER & OBERG Pty. Ltd-
Timber Merchants - - - - Detail Joiners
Vat Builders - - - - Flooring Specialists
GARDENER'S ROAD MASCOT
’Phone:
MU1221
(5 lines)
bill, despite the price-rise in this com-
modity.
Newsprint supplies demand close atten-
tion. “Truth” is published in several
States, a controlling interest is held in
Truth (N.Z.), and besides the “Mirror”
there are sporting papers and jobbing sec-
tions. The lot takes some feeding. How-
ever, Australian publishers have been
allowed to form a newsprint pool on the
understanding that the requirements of
all newspaper proprietors are met to the
extent of their authorised quotas. An-
other 15 p.c. reduction in consumption—
this affecting all publications —was
brought into effect as from November 1,
1942. Australian stocks were then ex-
pected to carry the industry for 16
months.
Stocks £56,779 heavier were existent
when “Truth’s” books closed:
1936. 1938. 1941. 1942.
Pref. capital. . £200,000 £200,000 £200,000 £200,000
Old. capital.. 230,000 260,000 300,000 300,000
Other labilities Ilf 11 ] 286 ’ 012 317 402 402,554
Freeholds, etc. 174,398 272,088 244,524 247,279
Plant, etc. . . 151,462 246,818 256,039 259,852
Investments . . 96,050 100,651 103,022 106,379
Stocks . . 27,628 91,177 143,486 200,265
Debtors . . 50,728 67,088 91,268 100,554
Cash, etc. .. 2,272 7,048 8,120 7,579
Outside debt increased £72,588 to
£402,554, largely as a result. Portion
of the increase may be represented by
tax provisions and that sort of thing in-
cluded therein. Still, with tax rates
changing and climbing, contingency pro-
visions are very necessary. As it is, the
excess of liabilities, including mortgages,
over more or less liquids is figured at
£94,156 (up £19,928).
“Truth,” Sydney, was put up to 4d. in
1939, and has since been turned into a
tabloid, like the “Mirror.” Competition
in Sydney is keen, especially on Sundays,
when opposition papers sell at 3d.
Because of war-time demand for tung-
sten, the steel-toughening mineral. King
Island Scheelite is proceeding to produc-
tion on a scale hitherto unforeseen. A
joint Commonwealth drilling campaign is
said to have indicated over a million tons
of pay-ore, and immediate construction
of a concentrating mill to handle 20,000
tons of crudes a month —two-thirds of
present output from the opencut per year
—is mentioned. Total cost is put at
£200,000. As to financial arrangements,
the co. will contribute £45,000 (including
£35,000 out of profit for the year ended
October 31) and the Commonwealth Gov-
ernment will advance £155,000. Until the
expiry of'the British contract for the supply
of Australian wolfram and scheelite (the
duration of the war and six months there-
after) the co. will retain a net profit of
£20,000, after providing for taxation, in any
one financial year, the remainder of net
profit going to the Government in liquida-
tion of the advance. After expiry of the
contract, net profit will be apportioned....
in accordance with an agreed formula.
Treatment of 32,200 (up 3010) tons of
ore last year yielded 242£ tons of schee-
lite concentrates (up 38£ tons, excluding
tails). Profits soared from £6373 to
£51,036 because of (1) an advance in
the price of wolfram from £3 2s. 6d. to
£3 15s. a unit in November, 1941, and
then to £6 ss. in March last, and (2)
the fact that it was found necessary to
provide only £9B more at £5322 for taxa-
tion. Obviously special consideration has
been handed out, taxable income, for one
thing, being calculated after deduction of
the £35,000 mentioned as earmarked for
new plant, etc. Dividends of Is. 3d. a
share —a fifth is exempt from tax in
shareholders’ hands—absorbed £15,625,
and continuance of war-time payments at
this rate, or even Is. 6d., should be pos-
sible under the arrangements entered into.
After being at 2s. the 45.-paid shares
could have been had below par as late as
October. They are now jammed at ss.
buyer.
Mount Morgan (Q.) ord.-holders look
like having a hungry year. With 32
weeks of the financial year past, working
surplus at the mine aggregated no more
than £55,300, taking copper in at £96 a
ton. Capital and A.R.P. expenditure in
the period came to £24,800.
* * # *
Centralian mining has been reduced to
small-scale operations in consequence of
man-power call-up and the difficulty in
procuring stores and machinery. At Ten-
nant Creek, the three Government bat-
teries are closed down, and are finishing
the cyanidation of tailings. Nos. 1 and
2 batteries are to be dismantled and sent
to the wolfram fields. The only gold-
mine working is the Eldorado, which,
confounding early prophets, is to open
out from the main shaft at the 300 ft.
level when labor is available. Among
the strategic minerals Wauchope and
Hatches Creek wolfram deposits are
being developed under the direction of
the Commonwealth authority by refugees,
and Mt. Doreen field is also being worked
for alluvial by a small party. Home of Bul-
lion, at Barrie Creek, is being selectively
mined for copper, some 250 tons or more
of 20 p.c. ore being at grass, and a con-
siderable quantity of high-grade mica is
still being won from Hart’s Range. At
Maranboy, out from Katherine, pros-
pectors continue “gouging” the tin de-
posits there and treating the stuff at the
Government battery.
* * * *
In January an application by Gt.
Boulder “Resumption Committee” was
made to a London Judge to have control
of the co. taken away from the liqui-
dator and returned to shareholders. It
was adjourned to February 22, and then
further set back till March 15. Resump-
tionists claim that the heavy debt which
excess-profits tax, based on a surplus
shown in a previous year, placed upon the
co. has been liquidated, and that under
shareholders’ control dividend payments
could be resumed before long. They
question whether the liquidator has the
power, if he had the wherewithal, to
make such distributions.
* * * *
Declaration of a maiden gold div. by
Central Norseman (W.A.) is an unusual
affair in present circumstances, even if
not unexpected. It is a shilling a share,
worth £15,000 and £65,000 respectively
to the beneficiaries, Phoenix Mines and
Western Mining Corp. While crushings
haven’t been maintained, recoveries have
been well above last year’s experience ;
at that, they are considerably ahead of the
average for the mine, however.
* sf: * ge
Burbidge Gold Mines (W.A.) is tipped
to give up and go on the dole. In the
beginning, three years or more ago, hun-
dreds of thousands of tons of cheaply-
worked material, 10s. costs and £l-a-ton
profits were talked of, and a couple of
men, it was said, could break 4000 tons
a month for the mill. Later a maiden
dividend of 6d. was paid out of profits
from returns averaging about 3dwt.
Later still it was reported that the co.
might make money out of sulphur as well
as gold. Then there was publicity silence
until recently, when it was announced
that, after testing the sulphur possibili-
ties of Burbidgfe sulphides, the West-
ralian Government was investigating other
deposits. Now, after a crushing of 2510
tons which returned 13s. 4d. a ton and
showed a loss of £597, co. is preparing to
suspend production. Burbidge was a
resurrected venture previously worked
by another local co. known as Great
Victoria.
* * * •
From London:
WestraliarD goldmining amalgamations are
again being discussed and recommended. Latest
mentioned is South Kalgurli and Boulder Perse-
verance. Both are on the western side of the
centre of the Golden Mile, and are next-door
neighbors. They are well off as regards ore
reserves, credit cash balances and gilt-edged
investments, South Kalgurli particularly so.
THE AUSTRALIAN GAS LIGHT
COMPANY
Annual General Meeting of Proprietors, February 25, 1943.
In the course of his address to the Annual Meeting of Shareholders, the
Chairman of Directors, Sir Samuel Cohen, said:—
The year ended December 31 last has proved
to be one of the most difficult in the history of
the Company. Apart from the abnormal con-
ditions arising out of the war which in these
days affect the management of any large under-
taking, there have been troubles one after the
other.
Our operations have been unnecessarily ham-
pered by industrial disturbances. Last Septem-
ber the Commonwealth Court of Conciliation
and Arbitration, after a protracted hearing,
made a comprehensive award governing 27U
classifications of wages employees. The award
provided for increased annual leave, sick leave,
war-time loadings and all-round increases in
marginal rates of wages. The Court described
the award as the “most advantageous award so
far obtained by the Union.” Needless to say,
it involves the Company in substantially in-
creased costs. The Gas Employees’ Union gave
the Court an assurance that the claims berore
it were deffnitely final, and that the members
of the Union would accept and abide by the
award made in full settlement of the whole of
the Union’s claims. Since then sectional mem-
bers of that Union have resorted to direct-
action tactics in endeavouring to compel the
Company to accede to demands for wages
higher than those payable under the award.
Iffese tactics were responsible for the recent
trouble at the Mortlake Works, which re-
sulted in a Commission being appointed by
the Federal Attorney-General to inquire into
the cause of the temporary failure in tne supply
of gas.
I think that the shareholders should know
the real position. Nine men employed as
offers and greasers in the retort houses were
dissatisfied with the wage prescribed for them
by the award. The Court actually investigated
their claim for more wages on three occa-
sions and definitely refused to grant it. Un-
fortunately about 50 retort-house employees
then took the matter into their own hands.
They did not start work at the appointed time,
and the gas retorts were left unattended for
several hours whilst they held a meeting and
negotiations were going on between representa-
tives of the Company and members of the
Committee of Management of the Union and
the men. The Company would have committed
a breach ot the National Security Regulations
relating to the pegging of wages had it acceded
ro the men’s request.
In former strikes the Company has been able
to maintain the supply of gas by volunteers from
the Salaried Staff. In this instance this was
impossmle owing to the staff having been con-
siderably depleted by enlistments in the various
arms of the fighting forces, and a large pro-
portion of the remainder were physically in-
capable of performing the necessary work, ft
is of interest to state here that 601 of the Com-
pany’s employees, of whom more than half are
volunteers, are with the torces, and, in this con-
nection, we have continued the policy ot paying,
within prescribed limits, the difference between
their military and company pay, the amount
involved last year being £24,197.
In view of the foregoing statement regarding
the Company’s position under the National
Security Regulations and the impossibility of
maintaining a supply ot gas with start labour,
the following propositions were put to the men
on behalf ot the Company:
(1) That the men resume work immediately
and that the Union appeal to Chief Judge
Piper, Commonwealth Court of Conciliation
and Arbitration, against the decision of the
Conciliation Commissioner, or otherwise,
(2) that the men resume work immediately and
postpone any action to stop work until such
time as the Union gave the Commonwealth
Government adequate notice of the men’s
intention to strike, so as to afford the Gov-
ernment an opportunity of investigating the
men’s grievance, bearing in mind the im-
portance of gas to the community and in
the production, repair or overhaul of muni-
tions of war, war equipment or war supplies,
or
(3) that, in the event of the men refusing to
accept either of the above propositions
and still declining to return to their normal
duties, the Union should assist the Company
to close down the plant as the Company
did not have sufficient staff to continue to
make gas or to close down the plant, and
it would take months to restore the gas
supply if the plant were seriously damaged.
The first two propositions were rejected by
the men, who decided to assist in closing down
the plant.
The steps which were taken to protect the re-
torts from damage following upon the men’s
refusal to work were ascribed by the Commis-
sioner to “an overshadowing pessimism.” Had
the Company not acted as it did, in order to
safeguard the plant, it would have laid itself
open, and justifiably so, to the most severe
criticism.
Following upon the receipt of the report ot
the Commissioner, a letter was sent to the
Attorney-General pointing out that the Directors
have always realised the paramount importance
of doing everything possible to ensure an unin-
terrupted supply of gas, as past records will
show, and expressing the strongest exception
to the view expressed by the Commissioner that
the Company failed to appreciate the duty it
owed to the community. We took the oppor-
tunity to offer the fullest co-operation in the
achievement of any scheme which would pre-
vent, or reduce, the risk of a stoppage of the
supply of gas.
The supply of coal is a further matter which
is causing anxiety. As you are possibly aware,
its distribution throughout Australia is now
vested, as it should be under war conditions,
in the Commonwealth Coal Commission, so
that we no longer have the right of arranging
our supplies direct with our contractors. Owing
to the urgent requirements in other States of
the Commonwealth, shipments of gasmaking
coal which we would have received in normal
times have been diverted to those States, with
the result that during the past year our re-
serves were reduced from a maximum of 90,500
tons to under 36,000 at the 31st December last,
the latter being equivalent to only about 28
days’ use.
Throughout the year constant touch has been
maintained with the Commission, and during
November last an estimate of our requirements
for the year 1943 was placed before its Chair-
man. In reply he much regretted he was quite
unable to guarantee they will be met to the
quantity stated, but that it could be taken for
granted that every possible effort will be made
to meet them, consistent with the obligation
which rests on the Commission to have equal
regard for the requirements of other essential
services and industries requiring the same class
of coal. Your Directors are deeply concerned
because of the possibility of the lack in the
necessary supply of this commodity, which is
the lifeblood of the Company.
The net profit for the year, including £9550
4s. 4d. carried forward from the previous year,
amounted to £205,520 6s. 4d. alter providing
the full amounts allowed by legislation for the
depreciation of assets and a contribution to
the Special Purposes account. An interim divi-
dend lor the June half-year of 1£ p.c, amount-
ing to £85,050, having been paid in September
last, the sura now available for distribution is
£120,470 6s. 4d. A final dividend of 2£ p.c.
for the December half-year is now recom-
mended, which will absorb £109,350 and leave a
balance to be carried forward of £11,120 6s. 4d.
The net profit for the year compared with
that of the previous year shows a decrease
of £6130 6s. 9d. despite the fact that the
sales of gas increased by over 78,000,000 units.
Unfortunately costs, beyond the control of
the Directors, still continue to rise, but your
interests have been looked after as far as it is
possible to do so, inasmuch as every avenue for
economy has been examined most meticulously
and, wherever possible, put into effect, with the
result that we have stiff been able to recom-
mend the payment of a four per cent, dividend
for the year.
At the last annual meeting references were
made to the inability of the Company to have
the price of gas adjusted to meet increasing
costs, and information was furnished outlining
what had been done in order to remedy the
position. Our efforts, unfortunately, met with
no result. 1 can assure you that the Directors
have constantly had the subject in mind, and
no later than the beginning of December last
we again made application to the Minister for
Local Government and Housing for the appoint-
ment of a Board, in terms of the Gas and Elec-
tricity Act 1935, to inquire, determine and
certify what price or prices for gas supplied
should be charged by the Company. On 25th
January, after a second letter had been sent
to the Minister, a reply was received to the
effect that he would look into the matter and
communicate with the Company at a later date.
So far we have not heard further from him.
Two important extensions of plant at our
Mortlake Works have not progressed to the
extent desired owing to the lack of suitable
priorities for their fabrication. I refer to the
Benzol Recovery Plant and the large Coke
Screening Plant mentioned on previous occa-
sions. A considerable portion of the Benzol
Plant has been either erected or is in the
course of erection. Delay, however, has
occurred in connection with certain important
stills which, until a better priority of fabrica-
tion is given, will prevent the Company
from putting the plant into commission towards
the end of the year as hoped. Representation
has been made to the Federal Minister con-
cerned, and it is hoped that, as a result of
certain further inquiries which are now being
made by the Department, a satisfactory order
of priority will soon be given to enable the
Company to complete the installation at an
early date.
It was expected that the new Coke Screening
Plant would have been completed in order to
meet the winter peak demand of last year.
Unavoidable circumstances, however, prevented
this, but every effort is being made to bring
about its completion in time for the demand
which will be experienced during the forth-
coming winter.
It will interest you to know that your Direc-
tors are giving considerable attention to the
necessity of making provision for future instal-
lations of plant to meet the rapidly-growing de-
mand for gas.
Your Directors have been greatly helped
during the year by the loyalty and efficient ser-
vice of the Company’s officers, and the best
thanks of us all are due to them. Two of our
senior executives have been granted leave to
carry out duties in connection with the war,
with the result that added responsibility is
being carried by those remaining.
Before concluding my remarks, I desire to
report with regret the death on 18th August
last of Mr. W. T. Morris, F.C.A. (Aust.), one
of the Company’s auditors. The late Mr. Morris
held that position for a period of 17 years,
during which time his services, both as an
auditor and adviser, were greatly appreciated.
Mr. H. H. Stitt, F.C.A. (Aust.), a partner of
the late Mr. Morris, was appointed by the
Directors to fill the vacancy thus created.
I now move:
“That the Statement of Accounts for the past
year be received, that the report of the
Directors be adopted, and that this meeting
do order and determine that a dividend of
2\ per cent, be paid for the half-year ended
31st December, 1942, on the ‘A’ and ‘B’
shares.”


Mobiloll
S3t
C^KCo
4
U
m
mm
N
VACUUM
QUALITY PRODUCTS
«s
mrnm
mm
M
*
m
•> ■
*
w r<
* „„
<■■ «
!
*f «
s«
m
VACUUM
(Incorp. in Australia)
■> jt
se rves t' te
Nation
Land'
° , the Air
a „d m m A
Business,Rollery,Etc.
Selfishness and Sectionalism
Herbert Morrison, Britain’s Home Sec-
retary, says that transition from a wai
to a peace economy, if a hangover is to
be avoided, will depend on rationing in
appropriate forms, and raw material and
price control. Britain in war-time has
learned how to make the money system
a servant instead of a “cruel taskmaster.”
“We have learnt a great deal about how
to control unemployment. We have the
technical means to ensure prosperity and
know enough to be able to work to a plan
for more production, and, when we get
it, to make it yield a higher standard of
living. If we can deal firmly with the
forces of selfishness and sectionalism we
can look forward to the future hope-
fully.” In those last few words Mr.
Morrison shows himself to be far more
alive to the prospects and difficulties of
the post-war period than those officially
connected with that sort of thing in the
Commonwealth. “Sectionalism” has been
the basis of most Canberra appointments
in these matters.
It is a fact that since the last depres-
sion the world has learned a good deal
more about the technical side of finance.
The Australian banking system, until its
influence was deliberately restricted by
the present Labor Government, had been
for years investigating and testing the
foundations of the Australian way of
life and living, in which industry and
finance figure so prominently.
Banks of necessity have had to become
less and less mere moneylending institu-
tions and more and more trustees of a
nation’s economic health. Their pros-
perity depends on a nation’s prosperity ;
among them they handle so much of
the country’s finance and credit that
national setbacks are individual setbacks
to them. They can’t escape the results
of their own and the Government’s ad-
ministration. And in spite of allega-
tions to the contrary by trouble-
makers and office-seekers, foreclosures on
properties the owners of which have
fallen down on their payments are not
sought by them. In proportion to their
funds Australian banks hold very little
property, and if a deliberate policy of
foreclosure were followed they would
soon cease to be trading banks at all.
They make most of their profit out of
quick turnover in money and secure
interest-bearing loans. Foreclosures
simply tie their funds up, and what was
unprofitable to a previous owner may
prove even more unprofitable to them.
In proper money management lies much
of our present-day standard of living.
The civilised way of life depends in-
creasingly on “organisation” and “remote
control.” People don’t make many of the
essentials of life for themselves now;
they are largely specialists working for
factories or industries that turn out big
quantities of similar things. The
majority of working people therefore
have to be employed in some industry
away from their own homes, and their
standard of life depends principally on
whether they have a job in the first place,
and in the second place on the buying
power of what they are paid for their
work. As many industries remotely re-
moved are at the same time buying from
and selling to one another, and as trade is
carried on among them largely through
organised transport and financial facili-
ties, the effectiveness of those facilities
is a matter of high importance. Finance
is the more delicate factor of the two,
and improper interference with it takes
much longer to find out than in the case
of a tampering with the engine of a
goods train.
The trouble is how to leave financial
management in the hands of capable in-
dividuals and institutions. Politics, now
that central management has become a
feature of national finance, are intrud-
ing viciously into something that should
be above politics. The lifting of money,
credit and exchange matters from rum
currency and holey dollars to a science
of national importance has been accom-
panied by a growth in political inter-
ference in these things. The more smooth-
running and useful finance has been
made, the more attractive has it become
as a thing for exploitation in the eyes of
politicians.
Ignorant Ministers in the present Com-
monwealth Government have done great
damage to the Australian financial
mechanism as it has endeavored to cope
with the added strain imposed by this
war; instead of using finance as a faith-
ful and honest servant, to be treated with
respect, the Government has endeavored
to turn it into a sleight-of-hand instru-
ment adept at concealment, evasion and
public delusion. Starting with inflationary
budgeting in the Government finances,
which now represent over half the entire
national income, activities later spread
to provocative interference with the bank-
ing system generally. The fact that banks
would in any case have had to co-operate
with the Government in a common
war-time financial policy does not
alter this fact. The banks were perfectly
willing to work in voluntarily with the
Government’s war-time needs, but what
has been done compulsorily goes far
beyond the most extreme demands of
the occasion. The underlying aim has
been to create a Government banking
monopoly. Yet such is the public’s lack
of confidence in our present Govern-
ment’s conduct of things—and confidence
and trust are essentials of any money or
credit system—that millions of money are
being hoarded in secret places all over
Australia, and Ministerial assurances are
received with incredulity even when they
are statements of fact.
Although Herbert Morrison in Britain
says “we have the technical means to
ensure prosperity,” in Australia, though
we possess similar technical experience
and knowledge, we have many obstruc-
tions to prosperity as well. The “forces
of selfishness and sectionalism” are only
too prominent here ; there are agitators
and organised bodies which depend for
their existence on class friction, and one
effective means of creating friction is to
throw sand into the financial mechanism,
which enters so intimately into the lives
of everyone. Then there are those people
whose ideas on finance are based on
nothing more intelligent than wishful
thinking and the desire to evade obliga-
tions ; we find many of this type in
politics, and the danger they represent
to their country is evident when the
present close relationship between politics
and national finance is realised;
And when, in Australia, we, too, say
“we have learnt a great deal about how
to control unemployment,” the “we” is
almost royal in the limitations of its
plurality. There are minds and organisa-
tions in Australia that have learned much
from the lessons of the last depression,
from Continental experience prior to
this war and from financial measures
actually taken during the war to
cope with its total nature. Given a
fair go by a Government prepared to
back up their knowledge and skill,
Australian experts, like Mr. Morrison,
might be able to speak with some con-
fidence about the economic future of
their country. But, instead, we find
the Government’s management of its own
finances and its interference with private
finance to be the gravest danger to a
return to peace-time employment when
the peculiar props of our war-time
economy give way. The “technical’'
means to ensure prosperity have been the
subject of gross political abuse, and it is
quite obvious that Prime Minister Curtin
has never given the consideration to the
management of our war-time finances
that the subject deserves. His Treasurer
is no pillar of strength in an economy
being white-anted by party politics either.
Finance is not a means for making
something out of nothing or for get-
ting out of indebtedness without pay-
ment. The use of bank credit has ille-
gitimate as well as legitimate uses. It is
just a matter of “staking” a credit-worthy
customer, as prospectors for gold used
to be sometimes staked by storekeepers,
when that customer has the means to
make or supply goods and services to a
market that can pay for them. The dif-
ference between bank credit and the gold-
fields grubstake is that bank finance of
this kind should be advanced on some-
thing that is a reasonable proposition
based on human and other factors and
not on anything so remote as the chance
of a gold strike.
While it is sensible for a Govern-
ment, through a central bank or through
its own finances, to extend extra credit
for useful and well-planned works during
periods of peace-time unemployment,
perhaps accompanying such expansion
by a proportion of unemployment taxa-
tion on the incomes of those in jobs,
credit expansion should always be based
on the future ability to recall that credit
or its equivalent in the event of an im-
pending boom, which is another word for
a period of inflation. By careful manage-
ment of credit, although at all times sub-
ject to the state of external trade, a coun-
try can do much to regulate employment
and, therefore, prosperity. During its
period of office, however, the present
Government has extended bank credit on
the security of nothing more substantial
than war waste. There is no hope of
constricting this in the future except by
added taxation. In a period of total em-
ployment like the present we should have
had very little credit expansion but, in-
stead, far heavier taxation on the reci-
pients of war-swollen incomes. Taxes
that would be accepted in war-time won’t
be tolerated when peace comes.
The erection of new dwellings in Aus-
tralia is virtually at a standstill. What-
ever houses are going up seem to
be in respect of special war-time indus-
trial areas. Although severe curtailment
of building investment has been neces-
sary in order to conserve money, man-
power and materials, it seems that city
congestion may soon demand some modi-
fication of the restrictions. There is a
great housing shortage in Sydney, Mel-
bourne and Brisbane at the present time.
sj: * * *
General Motors in the U.S.A. tip that
it will take two years after the finish of
the war before really “post-war” models
of cars are available. It promises
additional 1942 models within six
months of the conclusion of the war,


LET
r ATLAS >
CARRY THE
i BURDEN j
W
St
s' J
'S
lApjS&i
Established 1808 in Kei?n of George 111.
STABILITY
The “Atlas” has seen many
battles, including the Battle of
Waterloo, and has emerged
from them all with greater
strength and prestige.
FIRE ACCIDENT MARINE
ATLAS
ASSURANCE COMPANY, LTD.
( England )
ATLAS BUILDINGS, 8 SPRING ST.. SYDNEY,
GUY H. HEATH, Manager, N.S.W.
E. V. ELDER,
Assistant Manager for Australia & New Zealand.
LEONARD PETTITT,
Manager for Australia & New Zealand.
Insure with the
AUSTRALIAN MUTUAL FIRE INSURANCE SOCIETY, LTD.
ESTABLISHED 1872.
HEAD OFFICE: INSURANCE HOUSE, 109 PITT STREET, SYDNEY
Invested Funds exceed £500,000.
All classes Marine, Fire and Accident Insurance at lowest rates.
TOURISTS’ AND TRAVELLERS’ BAGGAGE INSURED.
VICTORIAN BRANCH; 411 Collins Street, Melbourne.
QUEENSLAND BRANCH: Primary Building, Creek & Adelaide Sts., Brisbane.
Claims Promptly and Equitably Settled. Agents in ail Principal Country Towns,
W. G. BROWN, General Manager.
As an aid to
DAILY REGULARITY
and good health
try
Dr. Morse’s Indian Root Pills for
Constipation, Indigestion, Biliousness,
Sluggish Liver, and similar little ills
of life.
D? MORSE’S
U - MUnjL J _ _ _
llllUM"
cybr tAe Oliver PILLS
Buy War Savings Certificates .
VICKERS
il m
iiiiiiiiiiii
mmsm
Hi
VICKERS
WSSSSm
VICKERS
■■■
VICKERS
VICKERS
“Deadshot” Dedman claims modestly
that he is not entitled to carve 450
notches on the handle of his tommy-gun
for that number of trading-bank branches
closed down under r-r-rationalisation. “I
have not closed down any bank,” he
insists. “The banks themselves agreed
to a r-r-rationalisation scheme which my
department had prepared for the purpose
of closing about 500 bank branches. The
labor-power released by the banks for
the war effort was about 6000 units.”
Many of these “units” so lightly referred
to by the Minister for W. 0.1. are men
who volunteered to fight for Australia
before anyone in his wildest nightmares
dreamt that “Deadshot” would one day
ascend to the job of Minister for W. 0.1.
or that he would ever be entrusted with
the delicate task of r-r-rationalising any-
thing.
The instrument under which trading-
bank branches have been closed bears
the signature of John J. Dedman himself.
It is Statutory Rule 501, and reads:
84. —(1) The Minister may, by order,
limit the number of offices, branches and
agencies at which a trading bank named
in the order may carry on the business of
banking in Australia or any part of Aus-
tralia and, by the same or a separate order,
may direct that the trading bank shall close
any office, branch or agency, specified in
the order, at which the business of banking
is carried on by it.
“The Minister” refers to Dedman or his
successors. Dedman has been an advo-
cate not only of rationalisation but of
nationalisation also ; now he is getting
cold feet at the public reception of his
work, and has been “emphasising the simi-
larity of approach in England to that which
is being followed in Australia.” There
were 2481 banks and branches, apart
from the Commonwealth Bank, in Aus-
tralia before Dedman got on the job.
N. S. Wales had 854, Victoria 727,
Queensland 406, S.A. 214, Westralia 212,
Tasmania 60, Canberra four and the
Northern Territory four.
* * * He
During January, the first month after
the closing of the Austerity Loan, Aus-
tralians managed to stagger away from
their Christmas and New Year cheer and
deposit £8.7 million in the savings banks.
It is the biggest monthly increment in
these deposits in Australian history, and
is only approached by the increase dur-
ing July last year. Total deposits at
January 31 were up to £317 million.
Between December, 1941, and December,
1942, additions to deposits in all Aus-
tralian savings banks were £43 million
and the increase in the Government
securities held by these institutions was
£37 million. It would be better if such
savings went direct from their owners
into Government loans, and better still
if a substantial proportion were taken
away in direct taxation. Already infla-
tion is showing that what looks like
a section of - the people growing richer
while the nation grows poorer through
war waste is something that cannot
really be. Most of the increase of
£73 million in s.b. deposits since
the outbreak of war has been offset
by depreciation in the value of
money. And inflation hasn’t nearly re-
vealed its full extent yet. Senator Fraser
last week charged Senator Mcßride with
“raising the bogey of inflation that was
intended to shake the confidence of the
public.” Inflation in the Commonwealth
is no bogey ; it is real.
* * * *
Speaking on the Loan Bill last week,
Senator Mcßride challenged the Govern-
ment to table correspondence between
Treasurer Chifley and the Common-
wealth Bank board. The bank board was
not in agreement with the Government
in its attempt to cover up the inflationary
dangers of its policy, Mcßride claimed.
The allegation seems highly probable. In
its last report the bank board urged that
“surplus spending power should be sub-
stantially reduced by taxation or saving
on a much larger scale than in 1941-42,”
and mentioned that “the financing of war
expenditure presents difficulties, to over-
come which taxation and loans should
be used to the fullest possible extent.”
f « « «
State committees of the Apple and
Pear Marketing Board are to be con-
tinued only in Tasmania and Westralia.
In N. S. Wales the apple and pear crop
is being marketed through non-board
channels, and price trends compared with
previous years are awaited with interest
by the public. The Apple and Pear Board
lost colossal sums during its administra-
tion, at the same time asking astonish-
ingly high prices for the fruit it handled.
sfc S£ *
Supply Minister Beasley said in the
House last week that in 1942 Australia’s
production of coal totalled “the record
figure” of 14,971,893 tons, compared with
14,212,450 tons in 1941, 11,716,682 tons
in 1940 and 13,535,142 tons in 1939. The
yearly production per man was 686 tons
in 1942, 629 in 1941, 524 in 1940 and
627 in 1939.
i|c $
Some Maoriland critics have been
asking for more information about the
Memorandum of Security, under which
the British Government provides the
Dominion with funds to pay for expenses
of the N.Z. forces abroad and a share
of the Empire air-training scheme. So
far only balances of the account with
Britain have been published ; the volume
of overseas expenditure has never been
revealed, though two years’ operation of
the system has been experienced. A
call for more details of transactions under
the Memorandum of Security and also
under the lend-lease agreement with the
U.S.A. is now being made in the
Dominion. Apparently nothing has been
published in London either.
* * * •
The National City Bank of New York,
discussing the war-time upheavals in pro-
duction and distribution of war-time raw
materials and foodstuffs, says they repre-
sent a transitory stage. The longer the
war, the greater will be the gap, economi-
cally, between those different types of
countries of which the world is composed.
Development of synthetics and new pro-
cesses will make more difficult the ad-
justment of newly-created interests with
old ones, and, taken with the length of
the war, international trade will be pro-
portionately complicated. But, the bank
says, the problem is far from hopeless: —■
Increased productive capacity, new tech-
niques and new synthetics may all be
made to facilitate rather than hinder the
post-war adjustments. All the economic
progress that mankind has made has been
derived from increased capacity to produce
goods and services. There has never
been general overproduction, only un-
balanced production, restricted distribution
and underconsumption. Vast increases in
productive capacity should be cause for
rejoicing and should contribute to a higher
standard of living all round. The problem
is one of organisation of production and
distribution that all may benefit. This
will be the challenge of the post-war eco-
nomic world.
One of the chief factors in the organisa-
tion of production and distribution is
well-managed, stable money. Because of
war-time abuse, Australia’s post-war
problems will be partly monetary.
* * * *
Australia, we are told, has now
reached the stage where certain types of
munitions are in excess of requirements,
and the V.D.C. is to get modern equip-
ment. Apparently Ministerial statements
refer mainly to small arms and ammu-
nition. There is still plenty of work to
be done in connection with aircraft and
shipping. To avoid waste of man-power
a quick changeover from one type of
work to another will be wanted, and the
responsibility will be on the Government
to see that the main consideration re-
mains the war effort, and not that of
keeping trade-unionists contented. There
are possibilities of considerable waste of
man-power and materials if the com-
pletion of certain munition-production
programmes are not anticipated early and
arrangements made for transferring men to
other jobs as soon as the old one cuts out.


THE SERVICE MAN
On the Home Front.
“Ek Dum”; There is little lightning in
the Pacific storm, but thunder all round
the horizon. A tornado is brewing —per-
haps several big blows—but whether their
fury will burst first in Asia or in the
South-west Pacific only a few people can
even guess.
Signs of coming enemy activity in the
Australian zone and of growing Austra-
lian readiness to meet it are repeated
enemy reconnaissances ; regular activity
of Allied bombers, which emphasises the
existence of a dozen bases almost within
striking distance of the Australian coast,
Jap float-’plane raids on shipping in the
Am Sea within sight of Australian land,
and the clearing-out of “non-essential”
civilians from Cairns.
General MacArthur’s H.Q. announced
on March 1 that “our reconnaissances
report a constant and growing reinforce-
ment in all categories of enemy strength
in the island perimeter enveloping the
upper half of Australia. The enemy
seems to be concentrating his main effort
in preparation on this front. Such an
assemblage of major force indicates that
he is taking up a position in readiness.”
Operations in the New Guinea-Solo-
mons area, described by S.-w. Pacific
H.Q., included the following. Dates are
those of the communiques:—
Feb. 22: Raid on Amboina; 12 tons of
bombs dropped, two enemy fighters shot down,
two others probably destroyed. Attack ’planes
wiped out the enemy-held village of Waipali,
near Mubo. Two ’planes caught on the ground
in the Buin-Faisi area destroyed, along with a
hangar and other facilities. Two night raids
(harmless) on Buna and one on Moresby made
by enemy ’planes.
Feb. 23: Medium bombers and attack ’planes,
covered by long-distance fighters, swept the Lae
area and dropped 15 tons of bombs, including
1000-pounders, on the Malahang aerodrome
and surrounding villages and the country round
the mouth of the Waria. Many large fires
started. No interception; all ’planes returned
safe. The aerodromes of Lukanai (Rabaul),
Lorengau (Admiralty Islands), Buin-Faisi, Gas-
mata and the villages and trails round Mubo
were subjected to varying degrees of attack.
The enemy made two feeble night assaults on
Moresby.
Feb. 24: Two enemy machines shot down as
part of an intercepting formation when Allied
heavies visited the aerodrome area of Koepang
(Timor). One Allied bomber was damaged.
Heavy bombers scored direct hits with three
5001 b. bombs on a destroyer and a near hit on a
7000-ton ship in Rabaul Harbor. Fires started
along the waterfront. Intense ack-ack fire, but
no air interception. Lae, Cape Gloucester, Mubo
and Waria River area villages all bombed and
strafed. Six enemy bombers caused minor
damage and casualties at Milne Bay. At Toel
(Kai Islands), west of New Guinea, a forma-
tion led by Commander R. Moran, R.A.A.F.,
went through an atmosphere in which visibility
was almost nil, pulled their Hudsons into clear
weather over the town, blew up the barracks,
showered the flimsy township with incendiaries
and added liberal sprays of m.-g. fire for sauce.
Only mild ack-ack fire was encountered, and
the formations returned intact.
Feb. 25: At Rabaul, a 10,000-ton ship was
hit from a low level, near hits were made on
small naval ships, and a warship was shepherded
on to a reef south-east of Cape Gazelle.
The Allied attack was made in the teeth of dense
fire and a searchlight display, but again there
was no interception, and all aircraft returned
safe. Four “O” lighters out of 13 were shot
down by a heavy bomber on reconnaissance
over Open Bay (New Britain). Other bombings
included shipping off Cape St. George (New
Ireland) and Powell Pt. (N. Brit.) and on Lae
and adjacent base villages and aerodrome
areas; also on the Mubo trails. The Waria
river-mouth objectives were torn by 18 strafing
runs of m.-g. fire. Babo and Kaukenau, enemy
bases in Dutch N.G., were Visited by heavy
bombers. .
Feb. 26: The fourth successive night raid on
Rabaul claimed as a victim an 8000-ton ship
which looked like a seaplane-carrier. She was
struck by four bombs and left apparently
making for the shore and sinking by the stern.
Three small cargo vessels seemed to be damaged
by low-flying attacks. Vunakanau aerodrome
and the town area also were bombed Without
attracting more than medium ack-ack fire. No
interception. Other attacks were made on
Alexishafen, Cape Gloucester, the Mubo and
Waria River areas and Babo (Dutch N.G.),
where a 4000-ton cargo vessel caught a large
bomb on her bows.
Feb. 21: Three small vessels at Powell’S
Point (New Britain) damaged by near misses.
At Wewak a 5000-ton ship was hit by a
5001 b. bomb and the aerodrome and other in-
stallations were damaged. Further bombing
of Lae and the Mubo trails and area generally
and of the Waria river-mouth country.
Feb. 28: The quietest day for months—re-
connaissance activity only, except for a raid on
Lae.
March 1: Raids on Lae and the Kai Islands.
Beaufighters, firing 18.000 rounds at Penfoel
’drome at Koepang (Timor), destroyed four
bombers and nine fighters at least.
The only land fighting during the week
was some cleaning up operations in n.-w.
Papua along the Kumusi, where another
117 enemy fugitives were accounted for.
Since the end of January 660 stragglers
have been killed and 73 taken prisoner.
The enemy is particularly cheeky on
the Aru Sea, where a float-’plane, after
sinking a small wooden ship and killing
a man, machine-gunned survivors for
half an hour and then alighted and took
a prisoner.
The raids on Lae appear to have been
the heaviest. One R.A.A.F. pilot declared
that “there was nothing but smoke and
debris from the time our first bombs hit.”
The damage was certainly great; but the
expansion of bombing over the area
roundabout points to the enemy adapt-
ing himself to circumstances.
He has abandoned his initial practice
of putting all his eggs in one basket. With
the building of roads and new landing
grounds he is gradually distributing his
supplies into an ever-widening ring of vil-
lages and dispersed depots. It looks as
if nothing but land attack on him will
clear him out of mandated New Guinea.
That, in time, will come ; but the experi-
ence of Buna-Gona advertises the wisdom
of the South-west Pacific Command in
not hurrying operations ahead.
The Solomons situation must be dealt
with in unison. There, bombers and tor-
pedo ’planes keep up their worrying of
Munda, on New Georgia, and of Vila
(Kolombangara), Rekata and other
points. The U.S. attacks are being made
with an imposing variety of ’planes under
fighter cover. There has been a certain
fresh liveliness in. the enemy’s air activi-
ties—an attack on a U.S. convoy, a raid
on U.S. positions in Espiritu Santo in
the New Hebrides.
The seas have been relatively clear of
enemy squadrons ; but let there be no
delusion —the Japanese still control the
waters south of the Carolines through the
Bismarcks and North Solomons.
Rommel Retreats.
“Ek Dum”: The military events of
Tunisia have been moderately large in
scale and purely local in action, but vast
in their import. An Allied defeat at
Kasserine, followed by an Axis invasion
of Algeria, would have affected opinion
throughout the Mohammedan and Asiatic
worlds and would have shaken confidence
of French North Africans in the Allies,
besides presenting the British-U.S. forces
with new military problems which would
have put a heavy strain on their trans-
port, shipping and man-power.
The German thrusts had beeh so heavy
and swift that American H.Q. was actu-
ally threatened. The 21st Panzer Divi-
sion, which had been bent and twisted at
Alamein by the charge of the Anglo-
N.Z. Armored Corps (“the Ball of Fire”),
and had since been chased .1500 miles
across Libya, formed the kernel of the
attacking force —evidence of the re-
cuperative power of German formations.
The original drive from the coast had
paused before reaching the Kasserine Pass.
Three or four exploratory prods then
paved the way for the capture of the pass
on Feb. 19 and for other movements
which threatened the main road to Tripoli
from the Algerian coast and the rear-of-
the-front linkage of the Allied armies.
For the enemy, however, the position
was not all honey. The Kasserine Pass is
a narrow gap near where the Chambi and
Semmana ranges meet. Once through
to the west, the attackers could debouch
on to a wide plain into which the Ger-
man armored divisions pushed a pass-
head.
Their advance and the infiltration of
infantry were interfered with by mine-
fields and accurate fire by the grimly-
holding U.S. forces. And the nature of
the country into which the enemy was
now moving made him susceptible to
flank attacks on a larger scale.
General Alexander, who took over per-
sonal control, at once began to capi-
talise his blessings, and Was considerably
helped by the last burst of winter rain.
An attempt to break the Allied flank
tc the north of the Kasserine area dis-
integrated when it came up against the
British First Army’s Guards Brigade,
U.S. tanks and French troops, who must
know the country more intimately than
their enemies. These Allied formations
were based on Sbiba, on the Sfax-
Majerda road, about 20 miles from Kas-
serine.
By Feb. 23 most of the danger of an
immediate large-scale break-through was
over, with the successful issue of the
fight for Thala, west of Sbiba and 30
miles from Kasserine—the furthest point
of penetration.
Loss of Thala would have meant the
cutting of the important Tebessa-Bou
Arada-Tunis railway and the passing into
enemy control of a vital strategic net-
work of roads.
General Alexander made a supreme
effort. While British and American tanks
were brought into the battle, the Eighth
Army in the south continued its move-
ment in the Mareth region in such a way
as to threaten the whole southern flank
of Rommel’s positions.
The Germans had not put all their
eggs in one basket in developing their
westward drive from the pass.
Apart from the vital move on Thala,
they flung tanks against the Guards at
Sbiba, and aimed two armored prongs
at Tebessa, the U.S. main base, while in
the north Von Arnim tried to create a
diversion at Medjez-el-Bab. The four
central Tunisian attacks were heavy—one
estimate put their tank strength at 220,
40 of which were pulled up dead by the
Americans on the Tebessa road at Jebel
Hamra, a line of ridge across the valley
between Kasserine and the Algerian
border.
By Feb. 24 the armored battles of the
plain had reached their height, and the
enemy was decidedly getting the worse of
it. At grips with the Americans on the
face of the drive, with Guards and
British and U.S. tanks and the French
hanging to his northern flank with a
bulldog hold, with the Eighth Army mov-
ing quickly, and with his rearward com-
munications incessantly bombed, Rom-
mel began to draw back. In the cus-
tomary German fashion, Italians were
left behind as rearguards.
By Feb. 25 the main bodies of the
Germans seemed to be trying to regroup
to the east of the Kasserine Pass, after
a withdrawal of about 25 miles. Tedder’s
air forces were making this difficult for
them. The Allied advance guards were
through the pass and hanging on to
Rommel’s tail, and the French were active
further north at Ousseltia, to prevent
enemy reinforcement from this direction.
Losses on both sides must have been
heavy. There was no Allied casualty esti-
mate, but D.N.8., the German News-
agency, claimed that 4500 British and
Americans and 3000 French had been
killed and that total Allied losses, includ-
ing prisoners, were over 20,000. D.N.B.
would, however, win a prize for optimism
in the punters’ enclosure of any grey-
hound course. The High Command,
announcing what it was pleased to call
“the conclusion of offensive operations in
the central Tunisian mountains,” claimed
to have inflicted “heavy casualties,” taken
4000 prisoners, captured or destroyed
235 tanks, 169 armored cars, 161 guns
and artillery tractors.
U.S. Secretary for War Stimson said
on Feb. 25 that losses were “lighter than
were at first believed.”
The Allied policy for the moment is to
keep the enemy where he is. Allied
large-scale attacks cannot begin until the
great flats of the plateaux along the
Algerian border become dry enough to
be used as aerodromes.
If the season is normal that should be
halfway through this month. Then hell
will be a circumstance to Tunisia.
With the steady reinforcement of
Malta, the Axis communication lines be-
come every week more harried. And
when the Eighth Army is rested and fully
re-equipped, the armies of Rommel and
Von Arnim will face concentric attacks
which will make diversions and local
concentrations of their troops for such
adventures as last week’s impossible. But
they are not going to be easy to beat.
At dawn on Feb. 26, to relieve the
central-western pressure exercised by the
Allies, Von Arnim’s northern forces made
a series of six attacks at key points round
the road system of the First Army’s peri-
meter, from the Mateur-Teburba road on
the north coast round past Bou Araba,
s.-w. of Tunis. He used about a division
of special troops with 50 tanks. At some
points, at heavy cost, they made some
penetrations but were driven back and
pursued by British and French troops,
and 850 Axis prisoners were reported on
Feb. 28 to have been taken.
Over the week-end the enemy was re-
newing his assaults. There is little chance
of his succeeding in his objectives, un-
less he can throw in much larger forces.
There are now none of the enemy south
of the Mareth Line, where, joined by
General Le Clerc’s French and native
troops from Lake Chad, the Eighth Army
has moved up across the Mareth-Mede-
nine desert road. Part of it seems
actually to have penetrated the flank of
the line and infiltrated into the rough
mountainous country south of Lake
Djerid.
The enemy retired from his southern-
most positions without making trouble
and was busy at the week-end strengthen-
ing the gap defences, which are reported
to have been dismantled by the Axis
Commission after the fall of France. In-
cessant shelling and bombing seemed to
presage an early attack by the Allies. In
view of the weakness of his artillery, it
seems likely that Rommel will fight well
within the Line, where he can achieve
most mobility and keep sufficiently with-
in reach of the north to allow him to
make a dive for the shelter of Bizerta and
Tunis if the southern face of his defences
and his west flank cave in under the
increasing Allied pressure. The reoccu-
pation of Kasserine and Feriana and of
some of the inner ring of U.S. airfields
packs him into tight quarters. If he can-
not keep the westward pressure on in the
Kasserine area he is in danger that the
Gabes-Tunis road might be cut through
his opponents reaching the coast. Then
German-Italian armies would be in two
pockets and the fat would be properly
in the fire.
Thirty-one Years Ago.
The first shots of the war which won
Libya from the Turks for Italy were
fired at the end of September, 1911, after
the Turks had permitted the evacuation
of Italians—“a melancholy sight.”
On October 5, 1911, Tripoli fell, after
a bombardment in which the Benedetto
Brin fired the first shot at the Red Fort
on the point at the harbor mouth. The
Turkish reply was badly aimed, short
and “received with scornful laughter.”
The Italians had no casualties. The
Turks abandoned the city after they had
lost 100 men. Signor D’Annunzio wrote
a poem:
Of Tripoli, white on her sands, I sing,
The traitress Tripoli. See how war shames her.
Like some false jade, held by her glorious hair
Fast in the fierce grip of the lord that tames her.
On the same day, Tobruk was taken.
Its fall was a subject for special rejoic-
ing. It was described as “probably the
best harbor on the north coast of Africa,
with a wide free mouth, free from rocks,
water depth from 45 to 60 feet, well
sheltered from the wind, protected all
round on the land side by all but con-
tinuous chains of hills,” It was not for-
gotten that Nelson’s fleet once sheltered
there, nor that it held a “commanding
position between Malta and Alexandria,
173 miles from Crete, 276 from the coast
of Greece, 540 from Malta, Syracuse
and Salonika.” Schweinfurth, the Ger-
man explorer, roared that “the power
that holds Tobruk has in his fist suprem-
acy and dominion over the eastern
Mediterranean.”
Mr. Jones’s Topper
Then Benghazi went (Oct. 20), after
bombardment and after Italian emissaries
had been allowed ashore to deliver an
ultimatum and stroll round the consulates
issuing warnings.
The Italian who called at the British
consulate warned Mr. Jones, the Consul-
General, of the danger to the consulate
because the Turks had erected some
flimsy sandbag defences in its neighbor-
hood. But Mr. Jones (in a suit of
canary cloth surmounted by an elaborate
panama, with two cavasses before him
and two mounted troopers behind) was
apparently “not acquainted even by name
with the heavy shells which we shall
launch from the 12-inch ‘infants’ of the
battleships tomorrow.” So “with that
red-tapism which is so fatal to neutrality,”
he objected to hauling down the Union
Jack and quitting the consulate.
Next day, while he was sitting down
to dinner, a 12-incher came through Mr.
Jones’s ceiling. His apricot jam was
“rendered uneatable by a thick layer of
dark dust.” The Italian envoy was able
to congratulate Mr. Jones a few hours
later on his miraculous escape, and
the pair “decided to go out together.”
Mr. Jones’s hats, save one, had been
crushed to smithereens. He was com-
pelled to “sally forth in a topper, which
formed a quaint contrast to the white
suit he Was wearing.”
On November 5, exactly 31 years
before Montgomery’s armored corps
surged through the Axis centre at El
Alamein, Italy proclaimed absolute
sovereignty over Tripolitania —though the
war continued for months longer, and it
was only on June 16, 1912, that Misu-
rata, the last port to fall on the African
coast, was in the conqueror’s hands.
D’Annunzio hailed the birth of the new
empire:
Italy, my Italy!
Hallowed to the new dawn, thou
With thy ploughshare and thy prow!
There was no D’Annunzio to sing the
end of the empire. The grave of the
Italian fisherman Grtisiglio, the first man
killed in the war of 1911 (“a cross lonely
and rude, under the palm-trees’ shade )
was still there ; but the “brave old banner
of the Fighting Fourth, breeze-borne on
Berea’s towers,” no longer waved where
“Ameglio [once] waited the glow ol
dawn” outside Benghazi. Memories or
the “heroic Eleventh” who
“seized Fortune by her trailing hair ’ and
Pietro Verri and his “Garibaldians of the
Sea” have had to give way to those oi
the more warlike ranks of the A.1.F., the
grim Northumbrians and 51st Scottish,
the Maorilanders, the S. Africans, the
tireless British Hussar regiments.
As a war, the original Italian conquest
of Tripolitania and Libya was largely a
slaughter of badly-armed Arab bands*
marred, some correspondents declared, bv
dreadful atrocities. Said correspondents


Sffyne/ti fflot/ctl ffiirple ffhra
were expelled. The Italians were de-
fended against the charge by Joseph
Chamberlain, the “Times” and Bennett
Burleigh.
As a campaign, it will probably be re-
membered by military historians because,
on one of the last spots in the Tripoli
environs where a cloud of Beaus, Bos-
tons, Havocs and other terrors of the
air blasted lagging Axis columns to pieces
in front of General Montgomery’s tanks,
aeroplanes were used, in the battle of
Messri, for the first time on October
26, 1911.
The Eighth Army’s advance will stand
as a classic exercise in the movement over
vast, arid distance's of a great body of
troops and armor plagued by supply diffi-
culties of which neither Napoleon nor
Wellington ever dreamed.
Round-the-clock Bombing.
“Ek Dum”: The air war has been re-
versed. Anglo-American attacks on
enemy-held objectives have become more
numerous and increasingly ..heavy. Dur-
ing the last week of February there was
an almost uninterrupted series of big
raids on important objectives.
On February 21 Bremen, Germany’s
second-largest port, had its 122nd attack.
Stirlings, Lancasters and Halifaxes
dropped bombs up to 40001 b. All the
machines returned safe.
U.S. Flying Fortresses raided Wil-
helmshaven on February 24. On the same
day the R.A.F. recorded that it had
dropped 100,000 tons of bombs on Ger-
many, Italy and occupied Countries since
September, 1939, and 50,000 tons during
the past year—not a bad record for one
service which, for several months, fought
a heavy defensive battle for the life of
Britain. The average is 2000 tons per
week from the beginning, apart from
operations in the Mediterranean and the
East and over the sea.
On February 25 Nuremberg, the heart
of Nazidom, had a visit, and its important
railway and industrial centres were
blasted at a cost of nine bombers. The
German Radio reaction sounded as if
the old German couplet which says that
“Niirnberg’s hand goes through every
land” had been sub-edited by the re-
placement of the word “hand” by the
word “howl.”
Cologne—or the remains of it, after
the visitations of 1000 British bombers
last May—was heavily raided on Feb-
ruary 26.
For three days ended on February 27
at midnight the assaults by Allied
bombers, fighter bombers and fighters
had been without a break. In the final
two days 2000 flights had been made
covering 1,500,000 miles. Dunkirk had
been blasted twice—it is a very concen-
trated target—and Cherbourg, Brest and
the adjacent pivotal military town of
Rennes suffered.
Japanese in China.
“Ek Dum”: While Field - Marshal
Wavell’s troops continue to feel their way
among the Manipur Hills, and the bomb-
ing of Japanese Burma bases grows
heavier, the Japs have taken the initiative
in Yunnan and in other areas of China.
Along the Salween and the country
covering the Burma Road they are bent
on pushing back the Chinese, straighten-
ing their own lines and establishing two-
way defence ; also their hold on river
communications.
Roughly 700 miles away, further enemy
operations started from Kwangchowan
(Luichow Peninsula), French “leased”
territory in Kwangtung, about 200 miles
s.-w. of Hong Kong, and these seemed
to be an attempt to drive down the
Peking-Canton railway from Ichang in
Hupeh—about 600 miles from Canton —
or perhaps to push westward for a direct
attack on Chungking itself, the Luichow
Peninsula drive being intended to open
up communications.
This peninsula is one of the coastal
points most accessible to Chungking. It
is handy to Hainan Island, which the
Japanese had turned into a great base
even before they assumed control of
French Indo-China.
With limited armament resources and
with the help of General Chennault’s all
too small air force, the Chinese are doing
their best. But they are perilously short
of material and fuel, and the only way
in which they can be helped on any scale
is through the strengthening of the
Indian Army to the point which will
make it possible for it to retake Rangoon
and reopen the Burma Road.
During an air raid on a U.S. air base
in Assam on Feb. 25 the enemy defi-
nitely lost six bombers and three fighters
and probably another 20 were wrecked.
Observers counted only nine out of an
original 46 raiding machines on their way
back to their bases.
During a heavy raid on Rangoon an
enemy cruiser was damaged.
Thaw in Russia.
“Ek Dum”: Correspondents who deal
in prophecy continue to be convinced
that Hitler’s armies in Russia have been
broken into doomed remnants, a few
hundred thousand here and a few hun-
dred thousand there, who are running
for their lives, hotly pursued by the Red
Army, or are prevented by lack of trans-
port and opportunity from escaping.
Stalin’s Order of the Day issued on
Feb. 23 and Maisky’s speech in London
did not exhibit this easy optimism.
Though Stalin said the Red Army had
smashed 112 of the 240 enemy
divisions which he declared last Novem-
ber to be on the eastern front —accord-
ing to Moscow 19 divisions have arrived
since—he issued warnings about the stern-
ness of the fight ahead. He announced that
the “8,000,000 enemies put out of action”
to whom he referred at the beginning of
November had increased to “9,000,000
German casualties, including at least
4,000,000 killed,” and that the Rumanian,
Italian and Hungarian armies in Russia
(47 divisions, according to his November
estimate) had been “completely smashed.”
“In the last three months alone,” he pro-
ceeded, “the Red Army has killed 700,000
enemy soldiers, taken 300,000 prisoners,
captured more than 7000 tanks, 4000
’planes, 17,000 guns and huge quantities
of war material. Nevertheless —
The Red Army still faces a treacherous,
cruel and still strong enemy. The invaders
resist savagely and are counter-attacking
in an attempt to hold on to their defence
lines in order eventually to embark on new
adventures. That is why there is no room
in our ranks for complacency, negligence
or conceit. It would be absurd to presume
that the Germans will give up one square
kilometre of our country without fighting
for it.
Three months ago the Red Array started
its offensive at Stalingrad. Its striking
power is not weakening. In most difficult
winter conditions, it is now advancing
- along a 900-mile front and almost every-
where is achieving success. The reason for
Germany’s failures on the Russo-German
front is that the balance of forces has
changed, for, while Germany is becom-
ing exhausted and weaker, the Soviet Union
is expanding its reserves and is becoming
stronger. Time is working against Germany.
... .The struggle will take time, demanding
all our strength and the mobilisation of
all we have.
Maisky said that, though the recent
victories of the Red Army were “very
encouraging and hopeful, we should not
indulge in wishful thinking and believe
that Hitlerite Germany is beaten.” He
admitted substantial Russian losses.
Stalin, in his Red Army Day anniver-
sary Order of 1942, declared that “Ger-
many has allies fighting. So far we have
not been in that position ; yet we have
succeeded in holding our own.” In 1943
he varied this by saying “Because of the
absence of a second front in Europe we
are bearing alone the whole burden of
the war.”
The Thaw Arrives
The actual fighting in Russia during
the past few days has been subservient
to the new seasonal change. It seems
clear that there had been remarkably little
snow, especially in the south, until the
last three weeks. The early onset
of winter has been blamed by one of
those German spokesmen for Stalingrad
and other defeats. His side looked for-
ward to a repetition of the extremely
bitter winter of last year, which precluded
the bringing up by the Russians of heavy
fighting material.
Now the third and last phase of the
1942-43 winter has arrived with the thaw,
already in being along the Black Sea and
Sea of Azov and daily working north-
ward—though, according to reports, it
was still snowing heavily round Orel,
where fierce fighting was going on.
In the Donetz, for the first time since
the beginning of the winter campaign, the
advantage seemed to have gone to the
Germans, both strategically and tacti-
cally.
Enemy Claims
During the week the Germans began
to issue lengthier communiques. On Feb.
24 they claimed to have encircled and
annihilated Russian forces which at-
tempted to take the German-held Donetz
area in the rear, and asserted that “the
same fate was suffered by Russians en-
gaged in an enveloping movement south
of Kharkov towards the Dnieper.” The
communique added:
The weather at present is varying be-
tween blizzard and thaw, and will within
a predictable period bring large-scale opera-
tions to an end.
Next day the enemy claimed to have
stopped another Russian attempt to
break through on the Mius front, west
of Kharkov, and, after bitter battles over
many days, to have wiped out the Fourth
Russian Motorised Guards Corps, killing
the commander, Major-General Danastis-
bin, and taking 44 tanks and over 1000
prisoners. The encirclement of other
strong forces between the Donetz and
the Dnieper, the frustration of attempts
to break out, the wiping out of “isolated
formations” west of Kharkov and Kursk,
including the staff of a rifle division, and
the killing of 10,000 Russians in three
days in fighting n.-w. of Orel were also
alleged by the Germans. But there they
admitted on Feb. 26 that they were still
involved in heavy defensive fighting of
“undiminished ferocity.”
On the Mius the same day the enemy
reported the destruction of the Seventh
Russian Cavalry Corps, with “the capture
of the general commanding,” and the
“routing” of a Russian tank army be-
tween the Donetz and the Dnieper, after
“savage fighting.” He also declared that
a limited German offensive south of Lake
Ilmen had reached its objectives.
The Russians announced the capture of
two or three small towns west and north-
west of Kharkov and Kursk, but the
enemy still hung to his great bases of
the Donetz region between Stalino and
Gorlovka and the Sea of Azov. German
Radio claimed the recapture of Krama-
torsk and Krasnoarmeisk, on the rail-
way from the Donbas to the Dnieper.
At the week-end the German High
Command repeated this claim. It also
asserted that Losovaya had been retaken
and that in the advance 14,000 Russians
and 400 tanks had been “cut off.”
On February 28 Berlin Radio alleged
that German forces were once more
approaching Isyum, on the Donetz. If
this were true Russian forces which
reached Pavlpgrad and the Samara River
must be either wiped out or cut off, and
the Germans must have made an advance
of nearly 50 miles from the south-west
to the west of Stalino.
Moscow, for its part, declared the
enemy had suffered a setback south of
Kramatorsk, and that the Red Army,
after a series of counter-attacks, had
taken a stronghold dominating an impor-
tant road. Captures of inhabited places
s.-w. of Voroshilovgrad also were re-
ported.
New Strategic Positions
The line in the Ukraine and north of
it is assuming a shape which gives ground
for uneasiness. As at Yelnia in Sep-
tember, 1941, and below Kharkov last
year, the Russian armies are driving a
“bag” into a vast mass of German front
which is giving way in places easily but
proving granite at other points. Kharkov
fell with scarcely a fight.
But attempts to get at Poltava (which
should be easier to attack than Kharkov)
have pulled up short 40 miles away.
Further north at Sumy and Lebedev, in
the direction of Kiev and Konotop and
north-west of Kursk towards Bryansk, ad-
vance has been fairly easy. Thus, it
seems less difficult for the Russians to
drive forward into the bag than to pull
off the two German hands at its eastern
mouth (Orel-Bryansk) on the north and
in the south (Poltava-Kramatorsk).
One of the dangerous factors in the
shape which affairs are taking is that the
directions in which the Russians are now
finding it easiest to move forward are
those which lead to German points of
greatest advantage in regard to the deli-
very of supplies—the points where the
greatest resistance would be expected.
The Germans have an inestimable ad-
vantage in their network of railways, in
the great through roads which run —five
of them —direct through from the Ruhr
and Rhineland and the Danubian manu-
facturing centres into Poland at least.
Also, in the better climatic conditions on
their western routes compared with those
of eastern Russia —the Balkan and Ger-
man roads are almost clear of snow in
March and the country fully traffickable,
while eastern Russia still has useless rivers
and a countryside writhing in the floods
and mud of the thaw. The first floods
of the Don are not far away.
There is no doubt that German traffic
is pouring eastward in flooding streams,
and the reappearance of wintering
generals suggests preparations for a new
activity. It is reported that General
Guderian has arrived on the front as
inspector-general of tank warfare. He is
the expert on the battlegrounds towards
which the Russians are advancing from
Kharkov.
The position all depends on the strength
of the Russians and on the supplies
which they have brought to advance
bases. Certainly, they seem to be in no
way short of supplies or of man-power.
But it takes a giant strength to continue
an offensive along 900 miles of line after
three months of fighting.
Orel and Elsewhere
The Russians are making a valiant
effort to break the German fist along the
Smolensk-Moscow railway and main
road. Their assaults on Orel’s outer de-
fences are supplemented by attacks on the
other side at Gzhatsk, a new offensive
of which the Germans themselves gave
the first notice. The position of these
assaults proves how little the Moscow
correspondents know. Since December,
though they are only 80 miles from the
scene, they have proclaimed that the
German front in this region was 50 miles
or so further back outside Vyazma and
that the Vyazma-Rshev road and rail
were cut. It seems that the actual front
in this region ia where it was before the
Russians began their offensive.
Berlin continued in the week-end to
play up the intensity of the Red Army
attacks in the Gzhatsk area, 80-odd miles
west of Moscow. It declared that the
Soviet forces had been driven back eight
miles north of Orel, and repulsed with
heavy loss in the Bryansk area. There
they “threw in massed infantry and tanks”
on a narrow front, with the result that
fierce hand-to-hand conflicts ensued.
In the Cis-Caucasus thaw and rain
seem to have held up operations. The
Germans cling to Novorossisk and to the
Taman Peninsula. An announcement by
the Russian General Malennikov that his
forces will shortly be available for other
operations suggests either that'the com-
ing of the floods will make further fight-
ing on a large scale in the region imme-
diately impossible or that he expects the
German front to crumble.
By March 1 the thaw had reached the
Kursk area. The Russian commander in
Kharkov expects that in a few days the
melting of the snows will produce a pro-
longed lull in the fighting in South Russia.
“Ek Dum”: Introducing a British
Army Week (what a surprise!) War Sec-
retary Grigg described the Eighth Army
as “the finest instrument of war so far
fashioned in the history of the Empire.”
For the North African landings, he said,
185,000 men, 20,000 vehicles and 220,000
tons of stores had been moved in three
weeks from billets and depots to ports.
This involved the use of 440 troop trains,
680 special freight trains and an addi-
tional 15,000 wagons attached to ordi-
nary goods trains. Preparations for the
landings began in March, seven months
before, and —apart from this large job,
and the patrolling of the Seven Seas and
the incessant air war, not to mention the
Russia-bound convoys and the vast arma-
ment programme which feeds not only
Britain, but half a dozen allies with all
war requisites—so,ooo guns, tanks and
vehicles and 500,000 tons of supplies
were carried round the Cape.
« * ? *
Mr, Roosevelt has expressed to General
MacArthur his admiration of the work
of the combined air forces “in support of
the situation in the Solomons and in
furtherance of your own operations.”
The President said that the arduous land
campaign on the Papuan coast, “which
decimated the enemy and now threatens
him at Salamaua,” had made a great im-
pression in the U.S.A. He added:
My thanks go to you and your leaders,
and to the officers and men of the Aus-
tralian and U.S. forces who carried the
fight to the enemy on all levels and over
great distances and even greater difficulties.
A gracious gesture from a sick man
which every Australian will appreciate.
* * * *
The U.S. Navy states that only six
cargo ships were sunk in the western
Atlantic in February, compared with 30
in January and an average of 45 per
month over a year. The figure is the
lowest since Pearl Harbor. But in the
loss of two American ships 850 service
personnel perished, hundreds of them
frozen to death in the icy waters. Some
were found frozen at the oars of a life-
boat.


Lesral Notice.
MARY LOUISE (or LOUISA) MADDISON,
Deceased, daughter of Robert and Eliza Ann
Fox (nee Hodgson)—M. L. Maddison died on
June 9, 1942. PURSUANT to an Order of the
Supreme Court of New South Wales in Equity
dated February 5, 1943, and made in Suit No.
1675 of 1942 intituled “In the Estate of Mary
Louise Maddison, late of Wentworthville, m
the State of New South Wales, Married Woman,
now deceased intestate, and in the matter ot
the Trustee Act 1925/1940, between Joseph
Maddison, Plaintiff, and Olive Susan Lassqn,
Defendant,” WHEREBY the following inquiry
was directed, viz.: THAT it be referred to the
Master in Equity to inquire who were the per-
sons living at the death of the abovenameu
Mary Louise Maddison, Deceased, entitled as
her next-of-kin to part of her estate (being the
part of the said estate to which the I hiintin.
Joseph Maddison, is not entitled) and whethe
any of them are since dead and, if so, Y™.~ r F
their legal personal representatives, NO lit*
IS HEREBY GIVEN that all persons claiming
to be entitled under the said inquiry are t
send by post prepaid to MESSRS. MURPHY
& MOLONEY, Solicitors, 79 Elizabeth Street,
Sydney, New South Wales, Australia, so as to
reach them on or before November 30,
their full names, addresses and descriptions anu
full particulars of their claims, or in detaui
thereof they will be excluded from the benefit
of the said Order unless the Court or tn
Master in Equity otherwise orders C |fXlro r
are to attend personally or by their Solicit
before the Master in Equity at the Supreme
Court, Elizabeth Street, Sydney aforesaid, on
December 13, 1943, at 11 a.m., being the time
appointed for adjudicating upon the claims.
claimant not residing m New South Wale
must send with particulars of , h]S claim
name and address of a person in New bout
Wales to whom notice to the claimant
be sent. DATED February 19. *«•
MURPHY & MOLONEY, 79 Elizabeth Street-
Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, Solicitors for tn
Plaintiff.
SPORTING NOTIONS
(Conducted by "PILOT")
Backers had a pleasant afternoon at
the Rosebery meeting at Rosehill on
Saturday. Four first favorites were suc-
cessful and the other three winners were
well in the market. As usual, there was
a large attendance, and the tote turnover
proved money was plentiful.
Flying Handicap form definitely proved
that Bangster had not improved since
running in the Challenge Stakes. He was
with Mannerheim in the lead to the home
turn, where Irish Sea and John Halifax
were also prominent. Bangster was first
to weaken, and in a great finish Milanja
(Gollogly) got up in time to beat Man-
nerheim a half-head, with Irish Sea a
similar distance further off. John Hali-
fax, who had a good run throughout, had
a winning chance half a furlong from
home, but as he then weakened he may,
for the time being, have had enough
racing. Magi, though fifth, was never a
winning possibility.
In the Turf Club Handicap Abspear
(Munro) ran up to his best form. War
Spear and Cadger were first to turn for
home, but when Abspear got a run on
the rails commencing the last furlong
he fairly smothered them. He went on
to win from Heiron —who came from a
long way back, but had finished his
run before reaching the winning post —
and Widden. The distance was beyond
Glendower, and though McMenamin was
on Salivant that horse raced no better
for him than for the apprentice who rode
him the previous week. Angus again
cut up badly, and Feltpal’s lameness of
earlier in the week must have troubled
him, as after passing the half-mile post
he did not even look a place-getter.
Sincerity’s showing in the race won by
West Point at Rosehill a fortnight
earlier was not overlooked by books or
backers and she opened a short-priced
favorite for the Nursery Handicap. Well
placed throughout, she won by a short
neck, though halfway down the straight
it seemed doubtful whether she would
overhaul Denton, who, after being at the
disadvantage of commencing from an
outside position, led most of the way.
Sincerity, who was bred by her owner, is
by Beau Pere from Rossolis (a French
mare who died recently), and Bulancer
(third) is by Bulandshar from Cereza.
Gunman (by Marconigram) and Tribal
(by Genetout) were nearest the place-
getters, though Cargeonel (by Piccadilly)
showed pace to the turn. J. Thompson
was on Sincerity.
Modulation (Bartle), looking better
than when he raced at Randwick recently,
did all that was expected of him in the
Cape Solander Handicap. Abydos made
the running, and, though he settled the
chances of High Flight and Dayinia
when he swung out entering the straight,
and gave Ayarpee and Modulation a
clear run through, it made no difference
to the result. Ayarpee looked a winning
possibility when she led at the leger, but
had no chance against Modulation at the
finish. Abydos (Hellespont-Adored) will
win races for G. Price’s stable, and in
finishing fourth Afloat suggested a return
to his two-year-old form. Derrydown
also shaped fairly. San Sebastian was
one of the field, but, though he has fur-
nished into a nice colt, looked in need
of racing.
Gold Head (McMenamin) won the
Encourage Handicap in a manner that
suggested he might develop into a useful
middle-distance horse. The early leaders
were Hunter Valley, Ginger Lass and
Etching, but though Blankit ran to the
front in the straight she was outstayed
by Gold Head in time that was only a
second slower than Abspear recorded in
the Turf Club Handicap. Well-backed
runners in The Gambler and Monaro
never raised their backers’ hopes, and
evidently are not improving.
There was difference of opinion as to
whether Lance (Hughes) overhauled Zue
in the Maiden Handicap, but from my
customary seat there did not seem sound
reason for doubting the correctness of the
judge’s verdict, though it was only in the
last stride Lance scored. Lord Kagal
was a fair third. There was no particular
merit in Karaset’s fourth, Courallie was
a trifle unlucky, and most of the others
ran in a fashion that suggested their
owners must be optimists in paying
training fees for them.
Mortine’s success in the last race was
anticipated by most backers. Ridden by
J. Simpson, she was quickly in front, but
after shaking off Tragopan at the leger
she was all out to squeeze home by the
narrowest margin from Response and
Linemond. In the straight Response
shifted about, and Linemond tried for
an opening that was a trifle too narrow
to permit of a clear run. Colonel Post
finished fourth after making a forward
move at one stage. An extra furlong or
two will help him, and it should not be
long before Windbrook adds to his
earnings.
♦
One Newmarket candidate (Distinc-
tion) and three Australian Cup candi-
dates (Azores, Prairiedale and Blue Glide)
were among the winners at Mentone on
Saturday. Azores, a Cup lightweight,
was most impressive of the quartet.
Illyrian recorded the best St. Leger trial,
Amazed, who dead-heated with that colt
for second money in the Victoria JDerby,
running considerably below expectations.
Elimination of Reception and Denko
after acceptances robbed the Moorabbin
Handicap of much of its value as a New-
market trial. Fifteen of the 19 runners
were weighted on the limit, and Dis-
tinction, with only 31b. above the mini-
mum, justified his favoritism. He won
decisively from April and Primavera.
Last-named finished brilliantly oyer a dis-
tance too short for her, and evidently is
back to the form that enabled her to
win the Oaks. High Title, racing for the
first time since the Newmarket last year,
eased from 6 to 4 to 9 to 2. He was
above himself in condition, and tired into
tenth position after attempting to lead
all the way. The race will improve High
Title, but considerable improvement will
be necessary for him to win the New-
market with 81b. more than he carried
on Saturday. In the Newmarket Distinc-
tion has gone up to 7.13 for his win.
Azores, after a series of expensive
failures in restricted races, appreciated
his drop in weight in the first J. L. Reilly
Stakes. Starting at 12 to 1, he finished
strongly to defeat High Falutin and Frill
King, with the favorite, Chamberlain, a
disappointing fourth. A protest entered
by the rider of High Falutin was dis-
missed. R. W. McLean, owner of Azores,
intended to offer him for sale by auction
next month, but has changed his mind.
Azores (The Buzzard-Sereform) is bred
to stay, and will be one of the fittest
horses in the Cup field.
Prairiedale, aged 10, was too good for
Telergy and Gay Revelry in the second
J. L. Reilly Stakes. Other Cup candi-
dates in Velocity, High Road and Mac
Rob disappointed their backers. It may
be expecting too much of a 10-year-old
to win the Cup, but Prairiedale appears
to be quite as good as when he finished
seventh with 8.7 in the corresponding
race last year. He was weighted at 7.12
for this year’s Cup, but after Saturday’s
win he was raised to 8.2 and Azores to
7.1.
Precept (Peter Pan-Yetna) drew further
attention to his Sires’ Produce Stakes
chance by a decisive win over Strazeele
and Portway in the Bass Juvenile Handi-
cap. Topweight with 9st., he ran away
from the opposition at the finish, and, in
addition to being bred to stay, is one of
the most promising two-year-olds in
Melbourne. He meets a stronger field
next Saturday week, but will appreciate
the additional furlong. Leading appren-
tice H. McCloud, who has ridden Pre-
cept to his two wins, will have the mount
again in the Sires’ Produce.
Showing that his tote-record-breaking
success at Flemington a week earlier was
not a fluke, Solstar, starting at 12 to 1,
defeated Refractive and the unlucky
Easterly in the Chelsea Handicap. With
two wins from four starts, the three-
year-old Solar Bear gelding is a galloper
above the average, and more will be
heard of him. He was again ridden by
W. Caldow, who has the splendid record
of two wins from five mounts. Regency,
Cornfield and Brother Bill, first acceptors
for the St. Leger, were among the run-
ners, but were not impressive. Of the
other Leger candidates which raced on
Saturday, Amazed failed to flatter his
backers at any stage of the first J. L.
Reilly Stakes, and Makarewa was never
dangerous in the Frankston Trial. Illy-
rian, however, finished strongly in sixth
position in the second J. L. Reilly Stakes.
* * * *
Primavera’s third in a six-furlong race
at Mentone on Saturday pointed to the
probability of a return to the form she
showed in several races at three years.
Last year she had 7.13 in the Australian
Cup, shared second favoritism with Eng-
land’s Glory and ran fifth. The weight-
for-age scale allows for a stone improve-
ment in her since then, and as she has
only 8.0 this time she is well in by com-
parison with a year ago.
* * * *
When first acceptances for the V.R.C.
St. Leger were declared last week 19
were left in. This suggests the possibility
of a record field, the previous best being
nine. Final acceptances are on Wednes-
day of next week. There were eight
starters when High Road beat Primavera
last year. Three fillies remain in up to
the present.
* * * *
Yaralla’s early withdrawal from the
Doncaster is something for which many
double-backers should thank his owner.
It is certain he would have been one of
the early picks for the Doncaster, and
though he might have run well it is prob-
able he would have received just enough
weight to keep him out of first place.
Now his trainer will be able to concen-
trate on w.f.a. races, and each will be
worth winning. With only 9st. to carry,
Yaralla will be a tough opponent for Hall
Stand or any other three-year-old he may
meet in those. Hall Stand, by the way,
is already being pushed into the position
of favorite for the Doncaster. However,
the A.J.C. handicapper is unlikely to be
influenced by the opinions of bookmakers
or backers in adjusting his weight for
that race.
* * * *
Auction has a rival in Queensland, An
admirer of Bernborough stated his will-
ingness to back that horse against Auc-
tion for £5OO at weight-for-age over
seven furlongs on the Toowoomba race-
course. Wall, trainer of Auction, has no
desire for a side wager, but, according to
a Brisbane writer, will consider a race if
the Toowoomba T.C. puts up a stake of
£350 and pays transport expenses. The
match would be such a great attraction
at the T.T.C. meeting on April 24 that
probabilities favor the committee giving
it serious consideration. It is stated that
Bernborough could recently have been
sold for 2500gn5., but the offer was re-
fused.
* * * *
There were only 19 entrants for the
V.R.C. Sires’ Produce Stakes, at a fee of
£l. There is an acceptance fee of £l9,
and the added money is £3OOO. At that
the V.R.C. is better off than the A.1.C.,
as it retains the entrance and acceptance
fees. The A.J.C. gets nothing in that
direction, its Sires’ Produce Stakes of
£3500 being a £2O sweepstakes, with £1
forfeit. If numbers always carried the
day trainer L. Robertson should make a
big bid for the V.R.C. Sires’ Produce
Stakes. He has six entrants —Simmering,
Lawrence, Ben Butler, Crow’s Nest,
Evidence and Oatcake.
* * * *
Accarak was the last horse to go close
to winning two Australian Cups in suc-
cession. He scored in 1924 with 7.8,
and the following year, with 8.9, was
beaten a neck by Answer, 50 to 1. Last
year’s winner. Wise Counsel, has been
given a reasonable chance of repeating
that success. His rise of 101 b. takes him
up to 7.11, but that is not a prohibitive
weight for a staying gelding, even though
he is seven years old.
* * ♦ f
Yearlings catalogued for the sales in
Melbourne on March 12 and 19 total
181. As in Sydney, the difficulty for
inter-State buyers will be to get their
purchases home.
* * * 9
Although racing stopped altogether in
England before the end of November
owing to jumping meetings being
banned, and will not be resumed until
towards the end of this month, “shop”
bookmakers have contrived to make ends
meet by betting on the Football League
War Cup, greyhounds and Irish racing.
In their advertisements they stated they
were ready to take from Is. up to £lOO.
Some issued their Derby prices with
Nasrullah favorite and Umiddad next
in demand.
« * * *
Wellington (Maoriland) is a small city
by comparison with Sydney or Mel-
bourne, but at its meeting on March 13
the Wellington R.C.’s prize-money for
eight races will be £6350, against £7850
for sixteen on two days at the corre-
sponding meeting last year. The club
has dropped its St. Leger. At this
season’s meetings in Wellington there has
been a great increase in the tote turn-
over, and that has a direct bearing on
stakes. Auckland R.C. is giving £9450
for its two days’ winter meeting, the most
valuable races being the Great Northern
Hurdles £1750, Great Northern Steeple-
chase £2OOO and Easter Handicap £l5OO.
* * *
In Adelaide last week there was a big
protest meeting at the Town Hall against
the ban on racing and trotting in South
Australia. A motion was unanimously
carried favoring the restoration of both
sports, and it was agreed that if Premier
Playford could not see his way clear to
grant that request the Prime Minister
should be directly approached. State
member Lacey said, that in a message he
had received from the Prime Minister
the latter had written as follows: “You
will see that while I have pressed for a
restriction on all sporting fixtures I have
never urged their prohibition.”
* * * *
There is no doubt as to the Prime
Minister’s sincerity in his belief that
less racing would benefit the war effort,
but he made a decided slip when
he said men gained nothing in personal
comfort by “hanging round betting shops
on Saturday afternoons.” “Off-the-course”
betting is not dead in Sydney or Mel-
bourne, but it would probably puzzle the
Prime Minister, his advisers or the police
to locate betting shops in either of those
cities where backers openly hang round
on Saturdays. It would be easier for
the P.M.G.’s Department to discover
that silent telephone numbers, and post-
office boxes really are used for starting-
price betting.
* % % *
When the ex-Sydney jockey E. Britt
won Bombay’s first One Thousand
Guineas on Princess Beautiful on New
Year’s Day his mount beat Mary (second)
by eight lengths. Princess Beautiful, who
is owned by the Maharaja Gaekwat of
Baroda, was a strong favorite.
V * * ♦
Greenline (10.2) is the only winner of
the Newmarket with over 10.0, and,
good as Reception has shown himself dur-
ing the past few months, it is doubtful
whether he will greatly appeal to backers
with 10.2. Tranquil Star’s 9.11 makes
the Newmarket a tougher task for her
than for any mare that won in the past,
though Waltzing Lily had 51b. over w.f.a.
when she scored as a three-year-old.
Zonda’s 9.4 is the same weight that she
carried when second to High Caste (10.6)
in the 1941 Futurity Stakes, but the same
year she was beaten into third place
with 8.8 in the Newmarket. She is,
however, weighted to meet All Veil (first)
101 b. and Phoines (second) B.lb. better
than on that occasion. Last year Zonda
was fifth with 9.3.
•i» *i*
Charles Wood, who was contemporary
with Fred Archer and rode 1750 winners,
celebrated his 88th, birthday last Novem-
ber. He was still in good health.
Wood’s Derby successes were on St.
Blaise, Galtee More and St. Gatien, the
last-named dead-heating Harvester.
At Leichhardt, Sydney, they box two-
minute rounds and use Boz. gloves. This
explains why pugs billed as champions
can go out of their class and outpoint
champions 161 b. heavier. Hockey Ben-
nell did this again at the expense of
Tommy Colteaux, who claims the middle-
weight title. Bennell won every round.
Colteaux lost several for delivering low
punches, but even in these Hockey, the
Dancing Master, had the points.
There is another Jack Johnson in these
parts —a middleweight from Wollongong
or thereabouts. He looked pretty good
against Ron Lewis at the Sydney Sta-
dium, and knocked his man out before
the seventh round was half over. Lewis
had previously scored with snappy lefts
to head and body. Three right-crosses
to the chin in the sixth softened Lewis
for the k. 0., administered with another
right.


Women's Letters
From Melboyrne
The Y.M.C.A. Elizabeth-street Hospi-
tality Centre greeted its millionth re-
freshment-seeking service man last week
and treated the lad to tea and cake at
the hands of the Lady Mayoress, Mrs. E.
Campbell. A special birthday cake at
the Lady Mayoress’s order was part of
the celebration and squads of voluntary
workers were congratulated and thanked.
Most canteen workers, and particularly
the washers-up, judge their effort by the
number of plates and cups that find their
way back to the washing machine, as this
end of the refreshment business strikes
the worker most forcibly. Latest prob-
lem worrying most hospitality centres is
the hour at which it is fair to close, con-
sidering the needs of the service man
who wants to see the most he can of the
bright lights while on leave. Usual
closing time is 2.30 a.m., but some wel-
fare officers feel that this is too early,
while others take the view that those who
aren’t in by that hour of the morning
won’t know the difference, anyway.
The Soldiers’ Families’ Fair, the A.I.F.
Women’s Association fund-raiser, brought
crowds to the Town Hall to fill up shop-
ping bags or sit in the foyer hearing
Gladys Moncrieff sing. Stall-runners had
no worries about getting rid of produce,
as only a few stray pumpkins and a Ger-
man sausage or two survived the morn-
ing rush. Among non-foody items were
delicious toys in velvets and linens, hand-
made by Mrs. H. C. Best, who manages
to put a really canny expression in the
animal faces, generally a weak point in
toy-making. The fair bristled with con-
tributions from Mrs. A. R. Stewart, who
came to the association’s aid by making
anything from lemon butter to attractive
felt slippers and shopping bags, even
popping a few dozen pounds of black-
berries in the jam-pan.
The spotlight has been on hospital
visiting this week with the arrival of
Miss Grace Robertson from the north to
tell the Red Cross all about the work
of visiting military hospitals in the battle
areas. She was insistent that the pro-
vision of amusement and suitable interests
is as much an essential service to sick
fighting men as are nursing and medical
aid. There are at present only three
Commonwealth Red Cross visitors, but
permission has been given for the number
to be increased to six, and further
appointments may be expected. The
visiting services of the Red Cross are
divided into three types, and volunteers
are welcomed in all. The first is the
State division, in which women visit in
their own State only; the second, the
Australian Red Cross division, members
of which visit anywhere within Australia ;
and, thirdly, the group which signs on for
overseas as well as Commonwealth ser-
vice.
Even where personal contacts cannot
be made Red Cross headquarters does
the job of interesting sick men by posting
parcels of books and things which may
provide amusement, such as costumes for
amateur theatricals, a demand for which
frequently occurs. Hospital visitors say
the books most frequently asked for are
works of good fiction, not the detective
stories and technical books which have
great popularity among service men
generally. Good modern fiction is de-
cidedly preferred, but the most important
point is that it should be of a good
literary standard. Books of this kind are
very welcome at Red Cross headquarters,
as they are becoming hard to buy. The
book parcels sent out have their per-
centage of “Westerns” and detective
yarns, however, as it has been found that
what the majority of men prefer may be
sheer poison to a few. Books given are
sorted and, if necessary, cleaned and
rebound.
It looks as though the suggestion for
a Romantic Composers’ Festival, along
the lines of the Beethoven one in Syd-
ney, will be adopted. Mrs. Herbert
Brookes and other enthusiasts of the
Ladies’ Committee which aids the Mel-
bourne Symphony Orchestra met the
other day and decided to approach the
proper authorities on the matter. Mean-
while, ordinary orchestral concerts will
commence soon, and the usual rush for
tickets has commenced. War-time cer-
tainly stimulates attendance at such
affairs. When the British Music Society
held its first recital last week there wasn’t
one empty seat in the room, and people
were asking to be put on the membership
list so that they could be sure of a seat
at future evenings. The membership is
said to be getting to a point where it ex-
ceeds the society’s room space.
With the engagement of her third
daughter, Kathleen, Dame Enid Lyons
must be feeling that the family is grow-
ing smaller. Two daughters are already
married, and Desmond, eldest son of
Dame Enid and the late Prime Minister,
is a flying man and therefore not often
in the family circle. Kathleen is in the
W.A.A.A.F., but it is understood that she
will retire from the service on marriage.
Fiance Gilbert Edward Gordon,
R.A.A.F., comes from North Queensland.
At present Kathleen is up to her eyes
in preparations for the wedding, which,
circumstances permitting, will take place
in Devonport, Tas., where the Lyons
family all grew up.
A note from over the border: Adel-
aide Repertory Theatre’s annual meeting
(its 35th) presented a war-time budget.
Membership has dropped since 1939 from
over 1400 to about 800; but the Rep.
still runs Adelaide’s biggest theatre, the
Tivoli, and a profit was made on each
of the 10 plays (three nights each). The
whole year’s profit, about £250, was given
to the remarkable local war charity, the
Cheerup Hut. This year there may be
none, as a new tax has begun to bite
£4O-odd out of the takings of each play.
Owing to war-time difficulty in casting,
only eight plays will be given. The Bul-
letin’s old friend Talbot Smith was re-
elected president, with Thomas Nave as
the v.-p. and chairman of executive.
Nave, lately superannuated from S.A.
Railways, is now acting also as secretary,
Irving Johnston having enlisted.
Mrs. Earle Dickover, their president,
wife of the American Consul-General in
Victoria, pictured here by Athol Shmith,
together with the U.S.W.A.Ss., gathered
in strength at the Town Hall to greet their
fellow-countrymen on the day of the great
American service march and found them-
selves the centre of great enthusiasm
wherever their light-blue uniforms were
sighted. One little group which lunched
at the Australia as guests of the vice-
president, Mrs. Herbert Allen, held an
informal reception at their lunch-table
with Allied generals, boys from every
State of the Union, and our own men all
crowding round them to say with a
handshake or a word or two how much
the United States Women’s Auxiliary
Service and its indefatigable president
had helped service men. Allied soldiers
told how it thrilled them to meet women
of their own country so far away from
home. Much the same sentiments were
voiced to General Blarney’s lady when
she visited sick and wounded service men
in the Middle East. The home touch
means a lot to a man far from home.
Dramatic enthusiasts are being treated
to unusual fare at Brett Randall’s Little
Theatre of St. Chads, with a comedy of
medieval France, “She Passed Through
Lorraine.” The play, by Lionel Hale, is
based on a story of the peasants of Lor-
raine in the period just after the death of
Joan of Arc. Comedy comes in when a
young girl impersonates the supposedly
returned St. Joan, and her stay among
credulous villagers provides many good
scenes, as when two troubadours arrive
to interview her. Satire, heavy all
through, has a contemporary flavor. The
play is to run three weeks and will benefit
various funds, including the Toorak
Auxiliary for the Women’s Hospital
(which is being given the proceeds of the
first Monday night) and the Little
Theatre’s own war-baby, the Fund for
Minesweepers’ Crews.
Once upon a time a yearly pilgrimage
to Melba’s grave marked the anniversary
of her death. But in war-time, with re-
stricted transport, the trip to Lilydale is
impracticable, so on Sunday those who
remembered went to the Albert-street
Conservatorium, where Una Bourne, the
pianist, who knew the diva well, talked
reminiscently about her. and recordings
of the divine voice were heard. As the
years pass it is good to know that Melba
memories last and that her generosity
and her astute advice to students are
kept in mind.
From Sydney
With the crisp and brisk touch of
autumn in the early morning and the
evening breeze, Sydney is shaking off the
lethargy of midsummer. Always from
December to the end of this month social
life indulges in one long siesta. One of
the first movements to get into action
again has been the Australian-American
Co-operation. A lunch at the Corona-
tion rooms opened the season of the
women’s section of this group. Presi-
dent Florence Taylor, looking very hand-
some in black flecked with white, intro-
duced the speaker, P. C. Spender. About
200 guests listened, among them many
service men.
Pretty Margaret Adams, one of Syd-
ney’s best-known flying girls (she was
one of the founders of the Australian
Women’s Flying Club), was married in
Melbourne last week. Parents, the W. C.
Adams couple, of Turramurra, went south
for the wedding. Vows were exchanged
in Christ Church, South Yarra. Mar-
garet is a W.A.A.A.F. and her rank is
Assistant Section-Officer. The bride-
groom is Warrant-Officer Stephen Kulka.
The reception was at the home of Mrs.
Tom Smith, whose granddaughter,
Georgina Gadsen, was bridesmaid.
Everybody cast for a part in the cere-
mony was in uniform, even the bride’s
cousin—a padre.
Last year the A.B.C. Staff War Funds
Committee raised enough money to build
a rest hut at a military hospital. Now
more money is needed to buy equipment.
Last year a masquerade ball in the Town
Hall proved a great source of income
(hundreds having to be turned away).
This year Dell Hill and Peggy Bissett,
joint secretaries, are busy planning two
masquerades, one on March 13, one on
April 3. Floor shows by widely-known
radio pussonalities will enliven breathing
spaces between dances. The dances will
not be at all formal. Masks will be worn
for fun, but there is. no need to worry
about fancy costume. Tickets for the
services are half-price. This is an up-to-
the minute photograph of Dell Hill.
Sydney enjoyed the orchestral concerts
led by the wizard baton of conductor
Thomas Beecham on his tour of Australia.
It also got a good laugh out of the veteran
musician’s uncomplimentary remarks on
Australian audiences. Now one and all
are quite willing to wish him well in his
second venture into matrimony. This
followed shortly after he obtained his
freedom at Boise, Idaho, from his first
marriage, which took place in 1903. New
bride is English and a pianist, profes-
sional name Betty Humby. Betty is
said to be blonde, blue-eyed and in her
early thirties. Sir Thomas is in the
sixties.
If any good friend wishes to make St.
Andrew’s Hut a present to celebrate the
third birthday of C.E.N.E.F., a washing-
up machine would be thrice welcome.
Mrs. H. W. K. Mowll revealed at the
party to round off C.E.N.E.F.’s third
year of war activities that workers at
the hut were longing for such a labor-
saving gadget, and had even collected
£lO towards it. After the service in the
cathedral, which was conducted by
Chaplain-General Bishop Riley, of Ben-
digo, and at which Archbishop Mowll
was present, there were lantern slides
showing all phases of the work. Mrs.
Mowll provided the commentary. Lady
Wakehurst and Mayoress Bartley were
among the interested.
Sister Edie Eglington, who comes of
an old N.S.W. North Coast family and
did her training at Sydney’s Prince
Alfred and St. George Hospitals, could
fill a book with tales of the Outback
since she joined the A.I.M. and went to
Oodnadatta, where, with Sister McCand-
less, another P.A. product, she has been
ministering. Her latest adventure followed
a collision between tw& trains on the
Quorn-Alice Springs line in which the
fireman, Leslie William Thomas, was
rescued from under a heap of coal and
debris, badly injured. Word went to the
A.I.M. hospital at Oodnadatta, 150 miles
away, and Sister Eglington made a seven-
hour trip to the scene on a railway motor-
trike. There she attended the injured
man, who was later flown to Adelaide.
The Sisters are used to such trips, by
rail, truck, cart or ’plane, in country
where 100 miles is the equivalent of a
city tram section.
Beethoven under the stars and Beet-
hoven under the Conservatorium roof
were again savored by hundreds of
listeners last Thursday night. The open-
air auditors clustered around the base of
the royal horseman before the building.
They banked themselves on the near-by
grassy slope of the Gardens. Some sat
on campstools ; some sat on the kerb.
Before the concert started Lindley Evans
broadcast a lecturette on the works of
the night. It was a representative
audience that the night sky roofed. In
it were young service men and women
and men and women who were old
enough to be, and probably were, grand-
parents.
Lionel Lawson, playing like the artist
he is, was the soloist in the two
Romances. Frank Hutchens was sensitive
and sure in the Piano Concerto in
C Minor.
All the usual concertgoers were in
their appointed places. Miss Elizabeth
Plummer was an early arrival. Then
members of the Women’s Committee —
the Gordon lady, Mrs. Walter Swinson,
Mrs. Robert Dixson and many others—
came to anchor. Nobody except the
musicians made any distinction between
day and evening clothes. Nicest hat
there was worn by Dame Constance
D’Arcy. It was a fragment of black on
which bloomed a pink rose.
Those who wish to send a present to
English friends should, if supplies will
allow, send raisins. These are greeted
with loud cries of delight, and then fol-
lows, rather pathetically, debate whether
to use them in puddings or eat them as
dessert.
The newly-appointed Controller of the
Australian Army Medical Women’s Ser-
vice is a Brisbanite. She is Lieut.-Col.
Mary Walker, and she succeeds Lieut.-
Col. Kathleen Best, who has been made
Assistant Adjutant-General of Women's
Services. Before her marriage to one of
Tobruk’s heroes, Lieut.-Col. Walker was
Mollie Calder. She was distinguished in
Red Cross and Voluntary Aid work in
pre-war days.
Dorothy Browning and Harold Fred-
man were ushered into matrimony at St.
Mary’s last week by a programme of
choral and organ music arranged by
Roland Foster, of the Conservatorium.
Wedding breakfast at the Wentworth was
also enriched by the singing of well-
known artists under the unofficial direc-
tion of Roland. Dorothy, only daughter
of the W. H. Brownings, of Bellevue
Hill, was graceful in ivory chenille lame,
misted over with the veil of Brussels lace
that had been worn by her mother at her
wedding. Three ’maids in frocks of
pale sunset-pink lace and Dutch bon-
nets of the same coloring were grouped
about the bride. The bridegroom hails
from Melbourne.
“My Sister Eileen” proved irresistible
to a crowded Minerva at the opening last
Friday night. Against a background
devoid of glamor, in fact, almost sordid,
the two small-town sisters, in clothes
that are neat but certainly not gaudy,
prove that the modern equivalents of Nor-
man castles and coronets aren’t neces-
sary to an actress who holds a handful
of laughs. One thing the girls had in
plenty, and that was a wardrobe of glossy
satin undergarments. This was shown
when the ironing was under way. A girl
on the aisle watched wide-eyed. “Gosh,”
she murmured to her companion, “that's
bitter. Reminds me of pre-coupon days.”
Myra Morton and Marjorie Gordon are
the two sisters.
Among attractive brides at St. Mary’s
last week was Desolie Derriman, who
married her Sergeant-Pilot Rodney
Hughes. R.A.A.F., in a frock of rose-
white chiffon and a cascade of tulle and
Brussels lace. Desolie is publicity officer
for the R.A.A.F. Comforts Fund younger
workers. ’Groom’s father is Dr. James
Hughes, of Centennial Park. Lincoln
Kelly best-manned. Desolie is a daughter
of the A. E. Derrimans, of Rose Bay.


HOTEL SYDNEY
300 BEDROOMS; HOT & COLD WATER,
PHONE IN EVERY ROOM
V
w
3r
m
&.
*A
u
wm
JIB!
M
S'
V
Right at Central Station
overlooking Belmore Park
—“round the corner” to
the business, shopping and
theatre districts.
Extra Comfort, Friendly
Service, Attractive Foods
and Very Moderate Rates.
Manager ■ - N. L. Beavor
TRUTH IN ADVERTISING—
HYGEIA Dissolvenator
A SELF-CONTAINED
SANITARY SYSTEM
IT IS NOT JUST A MODIFIED CLOSET PAN, IT ELIMINATES THEM
AND THE SANITARY MAN.
It runs continuously without emptying or other unpleasant jobs.
THE RISK TO HEALTH, SMELLS, FLIES, GERMS, INSECTS, AND DISCOMFORT
OF' CLOSET PANS ARE ELIMINATED.
Its 14 rear’s history proves that it is not in the same category as Ulie "may other
chemical systems which have come and gone in the past leaving a stigma behind them.
ITS EFFICIENCY AND LONGEVITY ARE FULLY GUARANTEED BY AN OLD
ESTABLISHED REPUTABLE FIRM TRADING SINCE 1937.
PRICE, £l9/2/6 (including sales tax), plus 10/9 crating if required.
HYGEIA SANITARY Co. Pty. Ltd.,
26 BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Telephone: B 1053.
Queensland Pastoral Supplies, Ltd., Brisbane; Harris, Soarfc, Ltd., Adelaide; Victorian Producers
Co-op. Co., Ltd., Melbourne; R. P. Melnerney & Co., Ltd., Perth.
IMMEDIATE DELIVERY CAN BE CIVEN.
f
SOME COMMON SENSE
ABOUT
Discard the old type
steel Truss. Try the
amazing new Roussel
Appliance. Enables you
to do the hardest work with comfort and security.
Definitely holds, a condition absolutely necessary
for possinle improvement or recovery. Made to
suit each individual case and costs little.
Recommended by Doctors everywhere. Satis-
faction guaranteed no matter where you live.
Send for details, self measurement form, testi-
monials and 14 days’ free trial offer. No obligation.
THE ROUSSEL APPLIANCE CO.,
(Dept. 27), 84 Pitt Street, Sydney.
Missing Friends.
DAVlES—Children of WILLIAM JOHN
DAVIES (who left Adelaide for South Africa
some 50 years ago) and ELEANOR LEWIS,
who were married in South Australia on 12th
January, 1883, please communicate with the
TRUSTEES. EXECUTORS AND AGENCY
COMPANY, LIMITED, of 401 Collins Street,
Melbourne. .
WOULD MRS. ELIZABETH SMITH Jnee
Kahmann), wife of the late CHARLES ATKIN-
SON SMITH, who died at Parkes Hospital
in September, 1933, or anyone knowing her
whereabouts, please communicate with PER-
PETUAL TRUSTEE COMPANY, LIMITED,
33-39 Hunter Street, Sydney? (Reference J.R.J.)
Divorce Notices.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES— In Divorce.
TO JOHN JOSEPH SULLIVAN late of Nar-
randera in the State of New South Wales.
TAKE NOTICE that MARY SADIE DORIS
SULLIVAN has filed a Petition for Divorce No.
2633 of 1942 on the ground of desertion with-
out just cause or excuse for three years ana
upwards If you wish to defend you may enter
an appearance at the Divorce Office Supreme
Court King Street Sydney before the 30th April
1943 and obtain a copy of the Petition with-
out charge from HUMPHREY MANSFIELD
Solicitor 350 George Street Sydney.— (l.s.)
C. K. BODY, Registrar in Divorce.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES— In Divorce.
TO GEORGE ALEXANDER COLLINS late
of Petersham in the State of New South Wales.
—TAKE NOTICE that IRENE MAY COL-
LINS has filed a Petition for Divorce No. 22a
of 1942 on the ground of desertion without just
cause or excuse for three years and upwards
If you wish to defend you may enter an appear-
ance at the Divorce Office Supreme Court King
Street Sydney before the 30th April 1943 and
obtain a copy of the petition without charge
from HUMPHREY MANSFIELD Solicitor 350
George Street Sydney — (1.5.) C. K. BODY,
Registrar in Divorce.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES— In Divorce.
TO RICHARD MARKHAM formerly of 58
High Street Mascot. —TAKE NOTICE that
ROSE ADELAIDE MARKHAM has filed a
Petition for Divorce No. 331 of 1943 on the
ground of desertion without just cause or ex-
cuse for three years and upwards and intends to
seek the exercise of the Court’s discretion
under Section 20 of the Matrimonial Causes
Act at the hearing If you wish to defend you
may enter an appearance at the Divorce Office
Supreme Court King Street Sydney by the
30th April 1943 and obtain a copy of the peti-
tion without charge from WILLIAM JOHrs
MACLEAN Solicitor 84 Pitt Street Sydney.—
(1.5.) C. K. BODY, Registrar in Divorce.
N THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES— In Divorce.
O GARNET WOLSEY HOWLAND late ot
0 Brand Street Croydon (formerly of Fncour
Lvenue Earlwood). —TAKE NOTICE that
IORMA KENDALL HOWLAND has filed
Petition for Divorce No. 2836 of on
ie ground of desertion without just cause or
xcuse for three years and upwards You may
nter an appearance before the 19th May 194.
nd obtain a copy of the Petition without charge
rom DENSLEY & DOWNING Solicitors 39-
9 Martin Place Sydney. — (1.5.) C. K. BUDi,
legistrar in Divoice.
SMOKE-OH!
“Barman boots, vast knowledge, desires
position.”— Adelaide “Advertiser.”
Serve him right! He would hang
around and put the world right for us
every time we dropped in for a quiet
one ; and they sacked him at last.
4* 4* 4* 4*
“It is impossible to photograph jungle
animals.” — Weekly paper.
They refuse to sit in camera.
4* 4- 4* 4*
“Wanted, Married Couple, usual duties, or
Single Cook (woman) and Man or Boy, apply
stating wages required. Alternatively, Land
Army Girls, able ride quiet horses, do light
station work, active, docile, reasonably obedient.
—ANNING, Wetherby, Richmond.”
— “N.Q. Register.”
A big cigar for Mr. Anning, please.
4* 4* 4* 4*
“Sports held at Pentridge prison.”— “Argus.”
But there were no cross-country races.
4* 4- 4* 4*
“Red-hot scenes that would have got by a
few months ago are being cut from scripts.”
—Movie mag.
Gone cold, so to speak.
“Milanja had a heart test before race.”
—Sporting paper.
Punters, on the other hand, should
have their heads read.
4. 4. 4. -
“The average person swallows involuntarily
about every 60 to 75 seconds.” — Weekly paper.
Most men would voluntarily swallow
even more often than that.
“Mr. Wright said he made his fortune by
adopting the principle when young of saving
threepence out of every shilling he earned.,”
We could all be rich if we went the
Wright way about it.
Love and Jitters.
“If suffering from nerves, you should try a
new love affair.” — Woman’s paper.
I doubt it. Consider my experience
when I first became a fully-qualified
neurotic. I used to jitter so violently that
they gave me a job shaking cocktails at
the Glorioso. All I had to do was hold
the glass and start thinking.
Then I met Gladdie, the mousey-haired
barmaid, who suffered from inhibitions
or prohibitions or something.
When Gladdie and I started going
together she soon got down on my sup-
plies. The contents of my ice-chest used
to go west before I could even sniff them.
It was no use hiding them under the
sofa; she had a special barmaid’s in-
tuition for that sort of thing.
Thus, with love depriving me of my
downfall, I found my nerves rapidly
improving. Crossing the street 1 no
longer collapsed at the sound of a motor-
horn. Then one night I settled down to
consider the whole situation. A vital de-
cision was needed. I had to choose be-
tween Gladdie and strengthening nerves
or a return to neuroticism.
Gladdie went.
T. W. N.
“The elephants have to be content with
second-grade hay because the Government uses
the best....” — “Sunday Sun” on Zoo expenses.
Of course, Ministers must have their
breakfast.
•%
“Remodelling World After the War. Getting
Down to Brass Tacks with Problems.”
— Heading, Adelaide “Advertiser
But the difficulty will be to drive them
into some wooden heads.
4* 4* 4* 4* .
In this ancient civilisation criminals were
sometimes punished by being compelled to drink
huge quantities of wine.” — Travel magazine.
Capital punishment!
4* 4* 4* 4*
“War-time bigamy is declining,” says a writer.
Fighting on two fronts simultaneously
is to be avoided at all costs.
•I* 4* 4*
“A Sydney firm requires its unpunctual em-
ployees to fill in a form headed ‘State reason
for being late this morning.’ ”
“Grapes do not cause appendicitis,” writes
a doctor.
No, but fermented they can cause
imaginitis.
Futility.
I often sit me down to muse
On things that baffle and confuse;
To ponder how we live and die,
The Whence, the Whither and the Why ;
To puzzle over what can be
The ultimate reality.
But, strange to say,, the more 1 muse,
The more I find I want to snooze.
T. W. NATHAN.
Finish.
“Remember, ladies, in millinery it’s the last
touch that counts.” — Woman’s paper.
“Elsie, dear, I think I’ll trim my hat
now. The last touch, you know! Shall
I start with a few bright feathers?”
“Oh, I think the full bird would be
better. Here, I’ll give you the one from
my hat.”
“Thanks, Now, I’ll put the bird on top
and this bunch of cherries underneath.
And do you think I should put this length
of veiling at the back?”
“No, dear, in front. Don’t waste that
lovely velvet bow. Put that at the back.”
“Good idea. Well, that’s the bird, the
cherries, the veiling and the bow. Shall
I put a frill of lace over the brim?”
“I’m not sure. Let’s ask your husband.
Men don’t know much, but their opinion
often gives you a bit of a lead.”
“All right. . . Oh, John dear, what will
I put on this hat now, as a good finishing
touch?”
“Er, let me see! Well, if you really
want to know”
“Yes, yes?”
“Your foot.”
EVE.
Ironical.
A Dry, who ne’er with malted brew
Had wet his throttle.
Succumbed the other evening to
A single bottle.
Defame him not! Some basher hit
Him on the cranium with it.
F.M.
Clipped.
“Earnings Per Sheep. Reduced Fleece
Weights.”— “S. M. Herald.”
This means, I think, in shearing lore
('.Though with the game Tm out of
touch).
That punters now are making more,
But books aren’t winning quite\ as
much !
P.O.M.C.
Mistake.
“They Don’t Want to Miss Being ‘Mrs.’ ”
—“Sunday Sun’’’ heading.
With honeyed words and kisses,
You woo somebody’s sister
To change that miss to Mrs. —
And miss your freedom, mister!
P.O.M.C.
Some think that the boss means to pry in
The ways of the poor pinpricked
grafter ;
But it means, too, that, after one lie in.
He can now get another in, after.
BRAIN BUREAU.
The Wide World Their Oyster.
“The Australian Legation at Kuibyshev is
starting to settle in to their two-storey house.
Some furniture has arrived from Persia and
Moscow. Food has been ordered from the
United States.” — “Sun” cable.
The Fourth Secretary to the Second
Secretary to the First Secretary was sit-
ting on a packing-case in the legation
building writing some notes in chalk on
the side of a fruit-case when the Assistant
Scrivener (fourth-grade) to the Senior
Press Liaison Officer came in.
“I say,” said the newcomer, “when
does the bedding arrive? I’m getting
corns on my hips.”
“Afraid you’ll have to wait a bit, old
man. We only ordered it from the Bel-
gian Congo the day before yesterday.
They expect to ship it from Leopoldville
next month if a river steamer is avail-
able.”
“And what about skis? As most of
our time will be taken up with winter
sports, the question is important.”
“We’ve taken that matter up with the
British Consul at Lhasa. Some excellent
Tibetan skis will be loaded on a camel
train that is leaving for the Tsengo next
August. They’ll be floated down the
Brahmaputra to Gauhati, thence by
bearer to Calcutta, whence they will be
shipped to the Persian Gulf and then up
the Tigris, through Erzerum, Tiflis, Astra-
khan and up the Volga. They should be
here by the winter after next with some
luck. I believe they are far superior to
Russian skis.”
“H’m. And what about our electric-
light fittings? These bare bulbs are
scarcely compatible with the dignity of
a legation.”
“I understand a special order was
placed by Canberra some time ago
with a firm of electrical-fitting contrac-
tors in Quito, Ecuador, under a new
most-favored-nation scheme. It appears
the specifications were in Russian for
the benefit of the Kuibyshev authori-
ties when the fittings arrived, but nobody
in Ecuador understands Russian, and
they are awaiting the arrival of an inter-
preter before they can put the order into
execution.”
“Now, what about cigars? I haven’t
one to offer my droshky.”
“Well, after a lot of cabling, we found
there is a shop on the Plaza San Con-
quistador in Valladolid which has just
the ones we want —exquisite fragrance ;
not too strong, nicely-matured leaf —
cigars, in short, that even a legation officer
could offer without embarrassment.”
“The Sub-Records Officer of the Cul-
tural Relations Staff was going crook a
little while ago about not having any
pigeonholes. Says he can’t look as if
he has anything to do unless he’s got a
set of them perched in front of him, even
though he hasn’t any documents in ’em.”
“Tell him we had word today by cable
that they are being made in Hobart. I
hoped to have got them made in Balu-
chistan, but it seems some Tassie poli-
ticians started squeaking about so many
war factories going up on the mainland,
so to shut them up they gave them the
job. A pity. I believe Baluchistan
pigeonholes are famed for their finish.
I’m expecting a cable to let us know
when the sandpapering is completed. If
the pigeonholes prove too big for the
desk that is coming from Cincinnati the
Sub-Records Officer can have them sent
back for the necessary alterations.”
“And what about an ice-chest?”
“Well, that was a smart bit of work,
though I do say it myself. I only got
the authority for one initialled, counter-
signed and franked a fortnight ago, and
1 heard by wireless telephone from Reyk-
javik only yesterday that one had been
dispatched to Liverpool. It should be
on the next convoy to Murmansk. Of
course, I had to cable particulars of
measurements and specifications. Excuse
me while I enter the cost of that —‘Cable,
£lB ss.’ I was almost forgetting.”
“Well, that seems to cover most of the
things that hadn’t been ordered before.
Oh! What about a supply of vodka?
We simply have to have that on hand —
for visitors, of course.”
The Fourth Secretary to the Second
Secretary to the First Secretary leaned
back. “We have been in touch,” he said
impressively, “with a distillery firm in
Kilkenny to see if they can supply, but
there’s some ticklish point about Eire’s
neutrality being involved in supplying to
a legation in a belligerent country.”
“And we’ll have to get a stove from
somewhere.”
“I’m afraid,” said the F.S. to the S.S.
to the F.S. sadly, “that that will have
to be left in abeyance until we receive
more information about the gas for it.
We can get it in bulk from Sierra Leone
at 1.349 roubles per cubic feet c.i.f. and
e., but we’re held up for containers. Now
light the slush-lamp like a good chap
and put the sausages on, will you?”
Bo.


THE OTHER FELLOW'S MIND
A Digger’s Little Bill
It struck me that 1 had not been well
paid for risking life and limb, eyesight,
disease in many horrible forms, my job
at home and the future of my family,
whereas others had been paid very well
for stay-at-home jobs which did not suffer
from the risks mentioned.
So I made out a little account against
the Commonwealth:
To loss (in three years) of 20 statutory
holidays at double time £2O
3000 hours’ overtime at time and a half 561
Annual leave for three years, not taken
on account of military demands .... 30
Proportion of long-service leave 25
Allowance for 2000 meals that did not
come to hand, and for 2000 meals that
contained weevils, worms and other
undesirable things, at Is. 5d., say .. 295
Moral and intellectual damage, 6s. per
day for 1000 days 300
Difference between my military pay and
a senior munition worker’s 625
Total £1856
Then I thought of other soldiers in
another war who returned to find that
promises made to them during the war
were not very clearly remembered by
those who made them.
I am going to present the bill when
this war is over. 300th Battalion
(W.A.).
Service Men and Politics
Politics will remain slimy even if
we fill all our Parliament Houses with
service men and women. Since the last
war ex-service men have been fairly well
represented in the British House of Com-
mons, but to what end? Stanley Bruce,
who enjoyed a pretty good innings as
P.M, here in Australia, has done how
much for ex-service men? Yet he is an
ex-service man. So is Casey. The “typi-
cal Digger,” if returned to Parliament,
would soon be bamboozled by the bally-
hooliganism of politics.
What is needed is a reform, and a very
thorough reform, of the whole Parlia-
mentary system. Some way or other we
must put an end to “speechifying.”
Parliamentary life should be devoted
to action, not words, and all this pub-
licity business in connection with poli-
tics should cease. Party labels (Labor,
United Australia, etc.) should be forbid-
den, as they are quite misleading to the
electors. I would be in favor also of
remodelling the seating arrangement of
the Parliamentary Chambers. Have
fewer members and let them all round
one large round table. And don’t ever
let any member get up on his hind legs
to talk. Let him have his say seated.
In that way he must talk sense, if there
is any in him. — Ex-Serviceman (N.S.W.).
A Cheer for Thomas Atkins
My opinion of British soldiers, based
upon actual battle experience in this war,
is that they are just as good fighters
as our own troops, the only difference
being that they are more rigidly dis-
ciplined than the Australians.
I fought beside the Tommies in Syria
and Libya and all I can say is that they
were magnificent. I will even go so far
as to say that at one stage of the Syrian
campaign a brigade of Tommies pulled
the Australians out of a nasty spot. It
was the British artillery that saved
Tobruk in the early stages of the siege.
Recently I saw “Next of Kin,” a propa-
ganda film (based on fact) showing how
a British raid on the French coast was
made terribly expensive in lives because
of a leakage of information through the
civilian population. It has many fine
scenes of the Tommies in action against
the Germans. I would strongly recom-
mend every Australian to see this film.
They will see the British soldier as he
really is.— Digger (Q.).
Can’t Take It
Communists can’t take it. Someone,
apparently a Com., had chalked the fol-
lowing on the wall of an Adelaide public
building:
Why should Russia bear the brunt?
Open up the Second Front.
Below, another wall-scrawler had added:
When the Russians fight the Japs
We’ll have a second front, perhaps.
Attempts had apparently been made
to rub out the last two lines, but the
effort was not quite successful. Hence
the parting shot “Down with all Fas-
cists,” written in red chalk across the
second half of the verse. — Bowen-street
(S.A.),
Soldier, Learn to Swim!
It sometimes happens when platoons
are reasonably efficient and only cover-
ing the same technical ground over and
over again that O.Cs. find it difficult
to assign tasks to relieve monotony.
Such periods occur in a camp of which
I am a member, and yet the opportunity
of some really useful training is very
close to hand.
Take a body of troops, a fine morn-
ing, a possible future trip to battle
stations with sea transport. Add these
together and the desirability of each and
every man learning to swim is very
apparent. Add again a fine stretch of
river a mile or two from camp—and
what have you? A perfect opportunity
for a compulsory learn-to-swim cam-
paign. .
Add one swimming champion to the
foregoing dish (and there is one in camp),
and the situation would appear to be
well in hand. ,
Is anything done about it? Yes, an
order of sorts has come through about
swimming being included in the train-
ing syllabus, and as a result a few platoon
commanders take a few enthusiasts to
water about once a week. Why not all
platoon commanders with all their men
making the trip once a day? A. B.
(Tas.).
Only One Prosecution?
At Newcastle (NiS.W.) Sessions a
former C.C.C. manager” was acquitted
“of a charge of having stolen 17 hams,
the property of the Commonwealth Gov-
ernment.”
Judge Neild said that “there was not
a tittle of evidence to prove the charge.
The jury said it had heard enough evi-
dence and acquitted the accused without
leaving the box.
So he gets off. But the fact that he
has had to appear in court to answer a
nasty charge sticks to him. It always
does, however innocent the victim.
In all such cases shouldn’t there be a
prosecution —against the prosecutors?
And, if it goes against them, an apology
(paid for by them) in all leading Com-
monwealth papers, and compensation
(similarly paid for) to the victim?—
Macann (N.S.W.).
Compulsory Saving
“Tom’s” suggestion for compulsory
saving for the young (B. 10/ 2/ ’43) is a
good one. Compulsory saving would
encourage thrift instead of extravagance.
It would help the young people to a
sound start in married life when the time
came and would assist the war effort in
providing cash for use by the nation in-
stead of being expended on amusement
using man-power that could be put to a
better purpose.
At the end of the war young people
would have a small capital that could be
used as a deposit on a house, instead of
launching into married life in a rented
house.
The young husband in a home that he
is buying for himself, spending his leisure
in his garden, is a far better citizen than
he who has no interest in his rented house
and finds his amusements outside. — Arev
(Vic.).
“Little Difference”
All these recriminations between civil
servants and others make it plain that
neither knows much about the other side.
Having worked in both public and pri-
vate concerns for long periods I can
testify that there is little difference in
their conduct. If there is no inefficiency
in privately-owned concerns, all the com-
plaints one hears about the indifference
of shop assistants (I’m writing of pre-
war days) are so much idle chatter.
I know several ex-civil servants who
did remarkably well in business, in some
cases after they were considered too old
for the hurly-burly of so-called red-tape
factories. One, on being queried by a
competitor as to where he picked up his
commercial acumen, replied truthfully
“1 learned it in the Government service.”
The G.P.O. and the Commonwealth
Bank, to quote two widely-used services,
could hardly be cited as examples of
Government inefficiency.—Me. (N.S.W.).
Civil Servants and Others
Agreed that the civil service is com-
posed mainly of men so distrustful of
their own abilities that all they want is
a safe job (B. 20/l/’43). But so is the
rest of the world, as witness the stress
being laid on freedom from fear and
want and all the talk of removing the
profit motive. Then, too, it is most
unions’ constant endeavor to
reduce all workers to one safe
level of mediocrity, not be-
cause the average worker is
lazy but because he is afraid
of being unable to hold his
own in open competition.
Most clerks jump at the
chance of a safe job in one
of the big companies, banks
or corporations.
It is unjust to label all men
of this unheroic type as ineffi-
cient. Often they are satisfied
with an unspectacular job and
take a painstaking pride in
doing it well. * The real hin-
drances to progress are, first,
the mediocrities who expect
precisely the same pay and
privileges as the efficient man,
and, second, those other
mediocrities who, having
wangled themselves into a
position of some authority,
sidestep all the attached obli-
gations.
Everyone picks on the civil
servant who avoids responsi-
bility by wrapping himself in
a cocoon of red-tape. He is
only the logical outcome of
a system which tolerates —•
even sometimes honors —so
many other small men: the
socialist who prates endlessly
of rights but never mentions
duties ; the worker who shows
his “equality” by lazy, slov-
enly work ; the incompetent
farmer or manufacturer who
expects the Government to
subsidise his inefficiency; the
military officer (ask any keen
soldier about him) who is
afraid to blow his nose until
he has consulted the regula-
tions ; the cunning theorist
who is too cunning to chuck
up a good job to help put his
ideas into practice ; the poli-
ticians who never make an
unpopular decision and sel-
dom make any decision if
they can palm off the responsibility on
to a commission, a board or a caucus.
Australia is overloaded with such un-
paying passengers, and until she tells
them where to get off all talk about won - *
derful New Orders will remain just a
bad joke.— Ajax (S.A.).
“Keep Them at School”!
N. S. Wales Minister for Education
Clive Evatt appealed to parents whose
youngsters got a place in current inter,
exam, lists to keep the pupils at school
for the leaving exam.
The present grave shortage of scientists
is due, in no small measure, to the tact
that in recent years many students have cut
short their studies too soon.
What is called for is not appeals to
parents, but action by Governments like
Mr. Evatt’s. As soon as a youngster
reaches 16 the niggardly-enough Govern-
ment allowance for him —taxation rebel
or direct subsidy—ceases. At this age
any normal healthy boy costs more to
keep in clothes and food than his parent
breadwinner. Thus the Government en-
courages —in a practical assessment it can
be said orders —parents to put their
children to work as soon as the young-
sters turn 16.
This, of course, most drastically affects
lower-income families. Many of these
simply cannot afford to follow Mr.
Evatt’s superficial advice. Mr. Evatt s
spouting is a poor substitute for some
solid work towards correcting a balance
which decidedly favors the better-off.
One thing that could be done would be
to continue Government allowance on
youngsters over 16 remaining at school
for the leaving exam. Even this would
not right the balance, but it would be
in the nature of an encouragement. The
existing arrangement is a deterrent.
O.D. (N.S.W.).
Examinations
A. Daly’s admission (B. 3/2/’43) that
“reams have been written against school
examinations” is surely a symptom of
something wrong with the system. No-
body criticises adversely a system with
which he is satisfied. Who ever heard of
an s.p. bookie declaring the particular
line of business he follows to be a blot
on our national copybook?
A. Daly says children look forward
to exams. Possibly one in each class
does so —the fellow who comes top every
time. The rest hate to be reminded
of their inferiority, and that, surely, is
no incentive to enjoyment. Has A. Daly
ever watched a number of examinees
undergoing their torture?
The statement that “exams, prove an
incentive to study” is entirely refuted by
the Queensland “Teachers’ Journal”—
“Land on MY 'drome, would you!"
not in editorials, nor in articles, but, more
reliably, in “For Sale” ads. The number
of textbooks for sale after the annual
examinations is astounding, and provides
irrefutable evidence that the owners of
the textbooks, having passed the exams.,
have no further desire to use those books.
In other words, the exam, has killed the
desire to study.—R. H. (N.Q.).
The Government Stroke
Advocates of nationalisation never ex-
plain how the country’s work could be
carried on if all worked at the Govern-
ment’s pace. Two small examples, which
might be magnified many times: I wrote
three letters —to a bank, an insurance
office and a Government department.
Bank and insurance office replied within
three days; the Government department
required ten days to acknowledge receipt
of a cheque! A farmer applied in writ-
ing in Sept., 1942, for a permit to sow a
paddock of peas. In Jan., 1943, he
received his permit, together with a con-
tract to be signed, giving him permission
to grow nine acres of blue peas. By this
time the pea crops in his district were
being harvested. — Vee Dee (Tas.).
Our National Debt
Even in these days when politicians
think astronomically of finance the colos-
sal size of our total indebtedness makes
frightening reading. On 5/l/’43 our
general debt was something like £lB 50-
odd millions. This is bad enough for
7,000,000 people, but add to it local-
government debts of £950 millions
plus £186,996,000 of outstanding Trea-
sury bills and you have the grand total
of £2,987,346,503, upon which the active
portion of the Australian population has
to pay interest at varying rates. On a
3 p.c. basis this amounts to just on £9O
million per annum. *
When Labor took over the reins of
office outstanding Treasury bills were £99
millions; these now stand at £lB7
millions.
The disgraceful thing is that, knowing
our precarious financial position, no one
of our political parties has had, or has,
the backbone to brake the orgy of official
reckless spending. The public has been
subjected to an intense campaign with
thrift as its slogan, while daily we see
new Government departments springing
into life. More of our good money is
poured down the sink by a thousand and
one boards administered by highly-paid
officers who seem to have no other aims
than to make government by regula-
tion —and their parasitical jobs—a per
manent part of our national life. Ink
(S.A.).


Ami a
IS BUILDING HER OWN SHIPS
r
BSjiiili
■
m ' I
■h
.
\ >&>
H
- 1 I ' * ' i£ i
•V
.
H M H
i
Sr
HVW
»*- WWW * "V> • »A. t ** * j|
1 3: >? :u. - §Mg SB
S
■: ■ -
iMHSHS|
;?•■'
|3Ss?ggjg
:
r : • -* - '
m waßann ipi
«■ *
■
■ :
: ■
ra
I mmmmimm
The need is urgent. Every ship war-vessel or tramp that slides down the slipways is
another bastion against the “Son of Heaven” and his murderous hordes. A multitude of
parts go into the construction of a ship. Every part must be dependable. Our sailors’ lives
depend on it; Victory depends on it. Foremost in the important items of shipbuilding are
copper and brass tubes and cables. These products are manufactured by Metal Manufactures
Limited a Company inherently Australian in character. No similar products made in
other countries are cheaper in price or higher in quality. On them, Australia’s contributions
to the war-effort and the shaping of her destiny largely depend.
d
CABLES
TUBES
LIMITED
PORT K E M B L A, N. S. W.
*
