

n
The Bulletin
“The Bulletin,” Vol. 64.—N0. 3310
Wednesday, July 21, 1943
Price 6d.
Registered at the Genera! Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.
Seppelts
THE BANNER’D CHAPEL IN “THE ABBEY.”
r y i HE seventh Henry to rule Eng-
land is not kindly remembered
by some historians. That he must,
however, have had some trait worthy
of commendation is shown in this
lovely chapel, the Chapel of Henry
VII in Westminster Abbey. It was
the gold pieces from this Henry’s
treasury that paid those craftsmen
who lavished their care on the build-
ing of this architectural gem set in
the heart of England. On the
twenty-fifth day of January in 1503
its foundation stone was laid by that
famous Abbot, John Islip. To make
space for its building, they removed
the famous old Lady Chapel and
the Chapel of St. Erasmus, as well
as an ancient tavern known as “The
White Rose.” The comparatively
modern stalls, seen in the view illus-
trated, were not placed in position
until the year 1725, especially for
the ceremonies attendant upon the
installation of the Knights of the
Bath, an Order founded in 1399,
the name being derived from ancient
rituals associated with the prepara-
tion of the candidate to the Order.
The pendant banners shown in the
illustration are those of Knights
installed within the precincts of this
chapel.


bJmJJ
This Book FREE to YOUi
STOTT’S CORRESPONDENCE COLLEGE.
100 Russell Street. Melbourne.
Please send, without obligation, your New Free
Hook let, explaining how to Write for Profit. as
advertised in the Sydney “bulletin. ’
My Name
My Address
S.R. 243 . .
AGE
The Red Page
ALDRIDGES WAR NOVEL.
James Aldridge’s Signed with Their
Honour (Wyatt and Watts, Ltd., Mel-
bourne ; Angus and Robertson) is so
much like Ernest Hemingway’s For
Whom the Bell Tolls that it almost is For
Whom the Bell Tolls. Except for the sub-
stitution of Greece for Spain throughout,
reading it is less like enjoying a new book
than re-enjoying the Hemingway novel.
A simple and infallible indication that
a writer is going to be a tough fellow in
the Hemingway tradition is the use of
the phrase “felt good.” Inexplicably,
this is considered a stronger and more
exact phrase than “felt happy” or “felt
well” or “felt contented” or “felt satis-
fied” or “felt the glow of a gallon of
beer.” One feels “good” or one feels
“bad.” The sunset “looks good” ; steak,
preferably raw, “tastes good” ; violets
and rum “smell good” ; the voice of the
beloved “sounds good.” Nearly every
writer in the recently published New
Zealand New Writing felt good about
something.
Aldridge, daringly, does not “feel
good” on the first page of his book: he
“feels fine.” But on page 6 (the second
page of the actual novel), the rightful
banner of Henyngwayism is raised, never
again to be lowered:
The Italians had orders to give up after
the initial attack. It was very sensible,
though it didn’t make them feel good
having to run away. They were never very
good in combat because of this.
Page 11:
She had poured beer over the cabaret
floor to make it slippery and smell good.
Page 28: .
Life always felt good in a cinema.
In what other ways should a follower
of Hemingway demonstrate his mastery
of the English language? He should
make full, even exuberant use of the
melodic possibilities of the monosyllable
“got.” Page 6;
It took some time to get used to Macchi
tactics.... In their first dive they got two
79" s and one Macchi. They didn’t even
break formation when they got up again.
....The Hurricanes got two more in the
next dive.... Then they got their bombing
over in a hurry... .After that it got so quiet
that the Gladiator squadrons were sent
back.
The aspiring author should use the
word “you” so that the reader, protest-
ing vainly, becomes the hero of the book.
That time you got drunk in Madrid,
gentle reader, your head was splitting
and whirling and you were screaming
and the stars were falling down and you
killed seven Chinamen and then you
were sick in the gutter. Clearly, you are
not what you thought you were. In this
case, you are a fighter pilot and may
perhaps feel good about it. Page 6:
It was a matter of deciding whether the
plane was a Macchi or a C.R. 42 before
attacking, so that you would know just how
to attack it.
Both the author and his hero, though
the one happens to be Australian and
the other English, should use the Ameri-
can language whenever possible. Pages
5, 15, 19 and throughout the book;
It had been the Gladiators’ job for a
while to go hunt the C.R. 42’s.
If you could get rid of the flies you
figured you wouldn’t sweat. t
“Sure. Say, there’s something now.”
Richardson had gotten out of the bath
and young Gorell went in there.
Forgetting that the art of prose is the
art of harmonious construction, that a
sentence can be anything from a gunyah
to a cathedral and that the first sentence
in the child’s primer is “The cat sat on
the mat,” he should make all his sen-
tences as short as possible. Enough has
already been quoted to indicate that
here, too, Aldridge’s style fulfils the
requirements.
Becrwise Gertrude Stein did it, the con ■
temporary novelist should endeavor to
repeat himself whenever possible. This
is what Wyndham Lewis called “the
Stein-stutter” and is to be found on
Page 11:
It had been mad and like a moving pic-
ture ; but the next day and night had been
as mad and fantastic, and it was still fan-
tastic.
And on Page 34:
The house was bare and wet. It was de-
pressing because it was a house and it was
so wet. It was all right its being wet out-
side, but to have it damp and cold inside
a house like this one was very depressing.
The purpose of this depressing repeti-
tion which is depressing because it is
depressing repetition is to explain diffi-
cult and profound thoughts in the
simplest possible manner to a reader who
is assumed to be a simpleton. Simplicity
is especially desirable wfien pointing out
the obvious: the reader, after all, is
probably the village zany. Pages 9 and 29;
It is simple to be here, Quayle was think-
ing as he looked around at the flight close-
flying behind him. It is simple because this
is the simplest way of being anywhere.
It was very good for Quayle and the
others because there was no rain and they
were not unclean and damp because they had
forgotten it. It was good for them now,
but would not be if what they were doing
every day were constructive instead of de-
structive.
It is not, however, always desirable to
be intelligible. Underlying all Heming-
way’s novels is a certain mysticism of
violence; neither Hemingway nor his
audience has ever known quite what it
was all about, but in order to make sure
that the mysticism is recognised as such
and not mistaken for mere chuckleheaded-
ness, it is necessary from time to time to
be clear about everything in an ineffable
and incomprehensible sort of way.
Aldridge (page 74) has taken this, too,
from Gertrude per Ernest:
They accepted his being the one that
came back and its being Brewer that had
been shot down relatively and altogether.
Relatively and altogether, it is further
desirable that at all moments of great
excitement the prose should rush right
off the rails and thresh about in the ait-
free from any restraints of grammar.
Aldridge spoils many of his big moments,
as when ’planes are shot down, by sud-
denly unleashing a spate of the purest
and wildest Hemingwayese. At the
crises of love scenes he again follows the
Hemingway technique, allowing his prose
to swoon. Page 123:
Then he could feel her because his arms
were around her back and she was crying,
enormous crying, great crying, and every-
thing was loose inside him and he .was
part of her crying....
And finally, in order that all these faults,
eccentricities and experiments should be
justifiable, it is necessary for the hero
to be —begging everyone’s pardon—a
complete bonehead. Wyndham Lewis
called Hemingway’s hero the Dumb Ox.
Aldridge’s hero, the airman Quayle, is
indistinguishable from the hero who has
stalked dumbly throughout Hemingway's
fiction. His conversation, like the Dumb
Ox’s, is limited to the monosyllable
“Yes.” He “will not accept the nprmal
phrases because he is suspicious of
them,” and he has no abnormal phrases.
He “cannot talk easily” because he has
“no means of talking.” His thought is a
baffled worrying. All he can think is
that he must hang on, endure, and wait
for something to happen. Because he is
writing about a series of British defeats,
Aldridge has more justification for his
hero’s numbness than Hemingway has
usually had.
So far, we have the Hemingway hero
and the Hemingway style. That the
setting is also a Hemingway setting is no
fault of Aldridge’s: if he wishes to write
about the war in Greece he can’t allow
himself to be denied because Heming-
way happened to write about the war in
Spain. But what he might well have
avoided is the duplication of incident.
The most poignant scene in For Whom
the Bell Tolls is the execution of political
prisoners; the most poignant scene in
Signed with Their Honour is the execu-
tion of Greek soldiers who had shot an
officer. The girl in For Whom the Bell
Tolls had had her hair cut off by the
opposing faction ; the girl in Signed with
Their Honour (though she and Quayle
are “very fine with each other,” whereas
Hemingway’s hero and heroine were re-
markably free) has had her hair cut off
by the opposing faction.
Hemingway’s style; Hemingway’s “mys-
ticism” ; Hemingway’s setting; Heming-
way's incidents; Hemingway’s hero;
Hemingway’s heroine —it is Hemingway’s
novel.
And, as a novel by Hemingway per
Aldridge, it’s astonishingly good. Hem-
ingway’s tricks and eccentricities are
mostly harmful; but he has vigor, he can
describe action and convey the suspense
of danger, his settings are vivid and his
minor characters, as distinct from his
principals, are always convincing and
often pleasantly humorous. It is the same
with Signed with Their Honour. When
Quayle crashes in the mountains and walks
through the Italian lines with a couple
of comic-heroic Greek companions, Ald-
ridge has some really excellent adventure
writing.
Though there are some exciting de-
scriptions of air battles; though the band
of young English airmen—Quayle excepted
—are credible personalities, their battles
against great odds heroic and their deaths
tragic ; and though the following of the
airmen’s careers gives the author an op-
portunity for a clear summarisation of
the disasters of Greece and Crete, by far
the most convincing characters are the
Greeks Deus and Nitralexis. Here, and
in some passing glimpses of Australians,
Aldridge shows a promising gift for
narrative and characterisation—a different
thing from reportage and different again
from repeating the contemporary con-
ventions, the Hemingway hero being just
as much a convention, and just as unreal,
as were the swooning young heroines of
Victorian romance.
The author of Signed with Their Honor
is 23 years of age. With all its faults,
his first novel is impressive. It succeeds
as entertainment, it is excellently con-
structed, some of the characters are well
drawn, some of the adventures are very
well told. All its faults come from the
imitation of Hemingway—and imitation
is understandable in a first novel.
Aldridge should read Conrad and Sainte-
Exupery: far better writers than Hem-
ingway, far more accurate interpreters of
the man-of-action, and far more profit-
able exemplars.
Story of Hong Kong.
The chief importance of Jan Henrik
Marsman’s I Escaped from Hong Kong
is that it substantiates the atrocity stories
about which Anthony Eden spoke in the
House of Commons. Eden’s speech was
based partly on a report given by Mars-
man when he reached Chungking ; this
is the full story.
For two reasons the present commen-
tator approached I Escaped from Hong
Kong with considerable caution. Firstly,
it was clearly propagandist in intention.
And, secondly, nearly all books about the
Far Eastern disasters, with the notable
exception of lan Morrison’s Malayan
Postscript, have been luridly overwritten.
It’s not easy to maintain interest in wild
denunciations of civilians, “Blimps,”
censors and all the rest of the familiar
targets. But Marsman’s book turned out,
like Malayan Postscript, an exception to
the general rule: it is quiet, sober and
thoroughly convincing.
The principal atrocity story, and the
one that was the basis for Eden’s speech,
is of the massacre of British troops:
Almost casually, as though this were
simply an afterthought, the general turned
towards the Japs guarding the tortured
prisoners and gave an order. Other Japs
joined the guards. They brought their rifles
to their shoulders and shot all those bound
British fighting men before our eyes. Then
they walked among them and bayoneted a
few in their death struggles.
Watching that scene with Marsman were
150 other civilian internees —men, women
and children.
One of Marsman’s greatest virtues is
that he refrains from generalisations. He
describes what he saw; the Home
Guardsman who, unwilling to face the
fate reserved for soldiers, begged him for
civilian clothes ; and the Home Guards-
men who, daring the Jap snipers to save
the wounded, died gallantly in the day-
light ; the Chinese traitors ; and the mag-
nificently courageous Chinese who helped
him to safety; the women who panicked
and the women who did not; the men
who hid all day in the air-raid shelter
of the Repulse Bay Hotel and the men
who did not; the two young soldiers
who, in order that they might not be
found among the civilians, had to be sent
to certain death ; the Swiss civilian who
felt that he must fight with the British ;
the Scottish child of ten who wanted to
join the soldiers ; the Chinese hotel boy
who thought the bombardment the
greatest fun he had ever had in his life.
One odd story for which Marsman
vouches is that many of the Japanese
snipers were accompanied by an Alsatian
dog, trained to sneak through the under-
growth with its master and, at the word
of command, leap forward and attack
an enemy:
Many a Jap sniper was saved by his dog
from being successfully ambushed. The
Britisher in ambush, even if able to kill the
■animal charging him, was obliged to shift to
some new position and so lost contact with
the sniper for whom he had set a (rap.
Quite a number of the defenders of Hong
Kong lost their lives because they were
discovered by the Jap dogs of war and
could not get in the first shot against a
sniper.
Having been many times shot at him-
self by those same snipers, Marsman’s
chief complaint against the military in
Hong Kong is that a certain colonel, for
apparently no reason except lack of
enterprise, refused to set fire to the hill-
side of underbrush in which the Japs
were lurking.
His escape from Hong Kong, a highly
dramatic story, leads him to descriptions
of Chinese guerrillas, and of the Indusco
system by which China is able to supply
herself with small arms. There are also
encounters with bandits, and a meeting
with five British officers who had escaped
from an internment camp after the sur-
render; they were attended by “a British
army doctor, wearing only sneakers,
shorts, a dirty shirt and a monocle
proudly in place.”
Various Verse
Over the Hill.
This workman dredges home at dusk
With bluntly forward boots that toss
The roan earth out like chaff behind;
His swung cap scooping cups of wind,
He crests the hill and fills the sky,
His eyes’ lit windows facing west
To take the lemon-colored light
While the day slowly drains away,
Or strides from hill to hill and strikes
A match against the friendly stars
(Hanging his cap on the horn of the moon)
Now as he stands to light his pipe
With quite unconscious insolence,
He could move mountains if he cared,
But a mountain in the palm of one’s hand
Is a troublesome thing, so he lets them lie —
Or lifts one, looks at it, quiets the trees,
Turns it slowly and puts it down.
n.s.w.
ROSEMARY BOBSON.
June Night.
The sun has never seemed as bright
As does the moon this June night
When the pure frosts gather and settle
On post, pool, flower and nettle.
Cold and clean as a child’s kiss.
Never was day more gay than this.
Laughter at night conceals no lies
But melts and glows in lovers’ eyes
Like moonlight or the flame of jewels,
Promising all love’s rich renewals
Of passion, knowledge, union, bliss.
Day keeps no promises like this.
My hands have cupped your laughing face,
My body known your body’s grace,
My breath and yours, like mists together,
Mixed on our lips in the June weather
On other nights. Day’s brilliance is
Incomparable still with this.
And when —for we shall sleep at last —
The moon is down, the night near past,
And frost and stars and silence making
Ready to go before our waking,
We will not take it much amiss
That day denies us more than this.
n.s.w.
KENNETH MACKENZIE.
To a Poet.
Wayfarer, glorious one.
Heart fiery as a sun, lips stammering prophe-
cies—
That you should pity me is credible, conceivable;
But it is unbelievable that 1 should pity you.
Yet don’t you think, great one, in all your
splendid journeys,
Your combats, your tourneys with this gan-
grened world of ours,
That there are some vignettes you may have
overlooked, have lost,
Since you do not melt your mind’s frost with
any red-hot pennies?
Can those stern eyes, where beauty enters throb-
bing,
Have missed the conductor bobbing like a
monkey on the tram?
Have your alert brain’s sentinels been out set-
ting pickets
Against the child chewing tickets, change rolling
on the floor;
And factory-girls on the early trains, rough
badinage and chaff;
The ceremonial photograph, like a bottle circu-
lating ;
And the hordes of relatives, virago-tongued and
vicious
(Irony most delicious!) over a ghost’s furniture?
Now yours is the grand power, great for good
or evil:
The schoolboy (poor devil!) will be told off to
study you.
On hills over the sky you have set your plinths
of stone;
You have crushed yourself, alone, in unscented,
unstarred valleys.
You have fixed, fired a cresset that will always
be alive;
I toil, delve, drive at my ballad-blocks of
roughness—
That you should pity me is credible, conceivable;
Exquisitely unbelievable that I should pity you!
N.S.W.
F. WEBB.
Summer Sunrise.
These western towns the skies hotly adore
Are streaked with anti-climax; hundred or more
Years have stretched the frames upon the rack
Of moulting plain; and splints of wooden huts
This year will firm the limbs tautened by war.
You may, in that hardening suffusion of light
the morn,
Amongst the houses softly recall those trackworn
Fellows, the first from ours to strip and dive
Into our river and then on a bed of pebbles
Accept at ease its coolness; eyeing, torn
In the wall, the one window, packhorse beside.
In spasm of mind with body so satisfied,
They thought this place a future —like all of us.
Building from the known; in their case, loved
lushness,
Fat and peaceful —watched window bulging wide.
What came were blooms of courage and of doubt
Rather than joy. Magnificence flew out
From a dusty nest. But what would they have
said
Of white fronts dazed and fainting to the sun,
Of generations plain-sewn with blanks of drought
And thread of rain, where assignations with beer
Even are grim? And yet in the fore-dawn
right here,
Late sleep forbidding looking in or forward,
When needles of sound from the railway pierce
the grey
Pincushion of four o’clock you will see those rear
Decades become a long, straight stalk, a train
Of toughness to the explosion now and again
Of this crisp flower which, though not precisely
In lineaments expected, one may trace
With fitness to a tired explorer’s brain.
N.S.W.
O.N.B.


'TRUTH IN ADVERTISING"
THE SENIOR STORE"
m
»r
ii
>
II
m.
X\
§
m w
TO
Ki'ZOr'Z*
m
mP
Satin Cushions in fancy rucked de-
signs with puffed walls. In Rose,
Blue, Green or Gold. At Anthony
Horderns'. Price, each 32/6
No Coupons Required
Printed Madras Muslin Crossover Curtains, frilled all
round with frilled valance attached. Complete with
tie backs. Floral designs in Blue, Rose or Green. At
Anthony Horderns'. Price 19/6
No Coupons Required
W&o*\
m
MS
Is
J Dy
J
m
m
mm
SIS
m
m
Mm
tlfi
A
-40111*
MM
A
%
m
m
-
MS
3B
sex
rc
aBPL^ES«3£
ass
ss«.^
Fisher Net in three designs. Bis-
cuit shade only. The width is 40
inches. At Anthony Horderns'.
Price, yard 5/11
No Coupons Required
s*s
■Vi**'..
sv-":
*:-■
lit
3*»«
ai :»»£
(f
MB
•S
*<2
«««
i<si
&
115
sss
SM5'
m
j
9
iIBBIBHBfi)
I ■
■ BBSS
Mi i -H
s^^iNns
BBSaSSB
EBBiSISKI
mmo w
■ IfSf'Ji
■ ■b j*
BBHf S*®3
«B
OBBlirß
CRPK(.R
ar.«y k v i
E.IBBft'B
r mi
I SR 881 I
HBUB /
B3di IUL.
.- ft
a bi ss .seißhe
i>*<*
w ttsiaeini nan
91 Mams'* ■4£3 EE
B r mm
If BSBHBk'ki'lßS
AViaroßUi
k*iC -*
p
8
Bedspreads made of fine quality
Nottingham Lace. Frilled on top
and on base of flounce. Complete
with two oval or oblong pillows.
At Anthony Horderns'. £l4/10/-
No Coupons Required
Tapestry in plain fleck design. A
suitable cloth for curtains or loose
covers. Brown and Rust only. 48
inches wide. At Anthony Hor-
derns'. Price, yard 12/6
No Coupons Required
Soft Furnishings—Third Floor.
m
mx*. J* •**>
f ■* '/Tfjb A-**
s*r
FJAMi Akta
mm
’*tAr xr
m
5f
%
S6?S
MPii
S ";■
RBB»
■ r liiH
SB ABBISBB
WafflBQBStlES
HR6B
■»” 'Bft iar
HBBBM
V3-B/ iflil.Br # JS®
kftanßiL nais
tsix ica»ee k
.88/ssr "csr^Bßr
ABES 13 3310 9BBBKB
■ HBBBSHniBBIBBB
S, Ji
■♦■3 ft 4Bf £Br
frr ft 7 bBfiBSSL
f»f B) r .laKis «
|BSw.'t t «
’BfflßflHft yilC.Httv'tf
EfilS? IBS' IH&9BIIB IB *■■ ■■ ~
ftW «B iMk'H'i IBk'B or
ii v.r/jna
? V/-S1 ei 'n^sjfflfidPff.Lsaa sa
Ife itaß&lßn. .BBS .*«:
‘'Bft/BBV
tßi r» tna dh at hr
r <B 81 .SOB
» rj’iißi r’B
iSMBBSI SflWI
rayKßißßEastaiSßa
&®v .GJOIOB9 SB
'Sftisr
is® bibb is® as »ii BaaaaJßHsifflErataEßEa
siosia /BBiva. .»«
• ■tsß -
S3DEB-. ssmmmH i
HikllVßD. JRBBR* *JWHfII- eBBSBx <fHHli .*9DDO~ /«BHBrf £Ji»9R I
r*« s •». •'^- S n fc C • • > V«eK • - »•* -. ■ ”
Brise Bise Net with pocket at top
for rod. Obtainable in Biscuit
shade only. At Anthony Horderns'.
Widths, ins. . 21 24 27 30
Prices, yard 3/9 3/11 4/6 4/11
No Coupons Required -
ANTHONY HORDERNS'
FAMOUS LOW PRICES
PHONE: M 2401 (DAY AND NIGHT)
BOX 2712 C, G.P.0., SYDNEY


AND
GERTIE DANCES IN THE MOONLIGHT
By T. HUNGERFORD.
LEAVE . . . it’s all they talk about.
Curley says “I’d rather be down
there with ten flamin’ bob than stuck
"up here with a roll a Mosstrooper
couldn’t jump over!”
Down there. So long since you saw it
that it is blurred and you can’t remem-
ber which building stands next to which
along the Terrace Hill. It would be cold
down there, too ; biting cold, with a
keen wind off the water and fires indoors.
Someone says “Anyway, Curl, you’d
be apples; you c’d bite that old crow
of yours in the city.”
A general laugh greets this one —
Curley’s old crow is a favorite joke.
“Yair,” he says, looking at the sky and
acting coy. “I’m sittin’ in a plonk shop
talkin’ to a Yank. I’m tellin’ him about
the time Lofty bit the tail off the Per-
sian cat in that milk bar, and he’s buyin’
the grog, see, when I looks up and cops
this old sheilah winkin’ at me, like this.”
He picks his teeth with a stem of dried
grass. We are squatting by a track wait-
ing for a move ; all about us are the
bare patches in the scrub where our
humpies have stood. Funny how you get
used to a place—you find out where the
latrines have been dug, where you can get
water, where the cookhouse will be, and
the place takes on an air of permanency.
You feel as though you have been there
all your life, and never look like moving.
“But what was she like. Curl?” Some-
one always asks it.
“Beggars can’t be choosers!” says
Curley virtuously.
He flips two pennies and idly examines
the fall. “’Struth, micked ’em again!
She was a pensioner, too,” he adds.
“What!” yells Paddles. “Old enough
for the pension?”
Everyone laughs and we smack each
other and say “ ’Struth, he’s a riot!” but
Curley looks offended.
“She was only about 35 or 40. The
pension was for her hand ; she couldn’t
use it much. She got about thirteen bob
a week.”
“Couldn’t expect a girl to live on that! ”
“Well, she didn’t exactly,” grins Curl.
And then along comes the transport
and we clamber aboard. We are packed
22 to a truck, with all our gear. It’s
no picnic. Hot, too, and dry and dusty;
and before long we’re all caked with the
fine red dust. It gets in your eyes—even
under your plate, if you wear one —and
the inside of your nose feels as if it is
cracking.
Butch says “I hope the creek isn’t
dried up.”
We think we know where we’re going ;
.there is a creek, but now the wet is over
it might be dried up. ’Struth, the wet!
A man was never dry. And the swamps!
We all were rotten with tinea.
Now the days are all gold and blue
with a few white clouds, and the nights
all purple and silver, with stars near
enough to touch, and cool moonlight that
seems to drip off the trees,
LAST camp, we had a goat named
Gertie. Someone swiped her with an
eye to milk, I suppose, although she didn’t
seem to have any udder. Maybe it was
meat they had in mind, when the “bully”
got too much. Anyway, these moonlight
nights you’d be awake looking at the sky
and remembering other nights like these
in other places with different company,
and you’d hear a quick patter of little
hooves and there Gertie’d be, dancing
on her log.
She did it every night, her white coat
glowing, tossing her head so that the
pale light would twinkle on her horns
and in her strange oblique eyes. Then
she’d stop and listen to nothing, at least
nothing you could hear, and you’d get
the feeling that thin reed music was being
made in the blue shadows of the pan-
danus. But all you could hear was the
rustle of trees and the plop-plop of a
grass-walla by, and it gave you an eerie
feeling about Gertie, as if she knew more
than you did and was having you on.
But she was prosaic enough during
the day—used to hang around the officers’
lent for scraps, and when you came in
there’s be a neat pile of what we used to
call “currants” when we were kids, and
bits of chewed letters and papers all over
the joint.
Someone says “Did anyone put Gertie
on?”
Slats says “ Gertie! We don’t
want any damn’ goats. We’re going on
leave, anyway.”
That starts it again. There’s always
some lame-brain with a rumor.
But before we can get really stuck into
this one the truck is stopped by a flaming
provost because a few of the chaps have
stood up to stretch their legs.
He compliments the lieutenant sitting
in front, and*,, says would he make the
men sit down. As the truck moves on
someone yells out “Why don’t you join
up? Your cobbers need you!”
This is a favorite formula, and will
usually start something. But the pro-
vost just scowls at us till our dust hides
him. The chaps stand up again, and the
discussion on leave resumes. We’ve ham-
mered it all before, but there might be a
new angle.
Mile after mile after mile of low red
hills and burnt-out scrub. What a place!
If it 'hadn’t been for the war it would
still have been lost in a quiet that stretches
back to before history. When Alexander
cried for new worlds these hills were
sprawling here, red and dry, with kite-
hawks sailing above them in wide circles ;
but the billabong we passed along the
road would have had a couple of fires
or a wurlie on its banks.
That’s about the only difference ; the
blacks have gone. Maybe in a few thou-
sand years we’ll be gone, too, and it
makes you wonder why things assume
such an importance when, after all, our
whole lives are just a moment in time.
And that’s a silly thing to say, because
a two-hour guard between two and four
in the morning is no moment whichever
way you look at it.
Wally is on his favorite theme. “Steak
and eggs,” he says, with his eyes glisten-
ing. “I’d sit down and have a double-
order, and then go for a walk and come
back and have another.”
Our throats are cracking and caked
with the dust. Curley interrupts him.
“How’d you go a nice cool bar with a
blonde slappin’ the pots on the counter
an’ ” but he is shut up by a torrent
of hoarse blasphemy from all quarters.
Some things are too much to be borne.
Tempers are fraying a bit. We are
all too dry and hot, and are tired of
eating dust. There is nearly a blue when
Harry has a drink out of Mort’s water-
bottle, quite by mistake. Someone tries
to open a tin of goldfish with a bayonet
while the truck is going over corruga-
tions inches deep, and a few of the boys
get sprayed. When things are quiet again
the discussion reverts to the eternal
themes.
THE shadows are long by the time
we reach our stop. It is where we
thought we were going, for a change.
It’s a long, deep gully winding amongst
the red hills, and is already filling with
blue shadows.
It doesn’t take long to chuck the gear
off the trucks, and we don’t bother to put
up the tents, it’s such a lovely, fine night.
Mechanically, we look around until we
see a fatigue busy with picks and shovels
—the latrines. We passed the cookhouse
further down the gully ; the greasies came
along earlier in the day, and the “M. and
V.” pick is well on the way. After that
trip we’d eat horse, let alone “M. and V.”
pie.
There are a few bushfires around, and
a thin veil of smoke is drifting amongst
the trees, which are glowing pink in the
last light. It’s like being in the heart of
a milky opal, all green and red, gold and
blue.
After tea we just roll out our ground-
sheets and settle in.
Tich says “Just like when I was a
wrestler,” and Curley says “You a
wrestler! All you ever wrestled with
was an old crow and a bottle of plonk
on a park seat.”
But it passes ; we are too tired to start
anything. It is cool, and the stars are
gaining in strength. On the hillsides
around little red fires gleam, and the
noises of the camp are subdued and
sound far away—someone singing, some-
one cursing the mosquitoes and the rattle
of loose stones as someone goes down the
hillside.
A group of chaps a few yards away
are discussing leave. “.... and that’s the
good guts. Robbie’s batman just told
me.” The batmen are mines of infor-
mation, usually fictitious, but we are
suckers for it and always come in.
Curley’s voice can be heard. “Yair,
and this sheilah says she’s got a cobber,
so we pick up Tich and go out to their
place and get stung ; and some Yank that
lives there dots me an’ I wake up on the
back lawn next morning with a beaut
shiner, an’ I get back to camp late, and
they sting me ten bob and a day’s pay
and you wonder why a bloke’s crooked! ”
Which sets the ball rolling again—leave
and sheilahs.
We forget so easily. Last night we lay
down amongst the trees in our old camp
as we had done for months and felt per-
manent. Now that place is forgotten and
deserted ; and this place, where last night
it was quiet and only a few lizards rustled
amongst the rocks and maybe a sly old
dingo shadowed along, is noisy with our
talk and laughter. Already we’ve for-
gotten what we did yesterday.
Perhaps we’re not such big potatoes ;
all we left behind us was some bare
patches in the scrub and Gertie dancing
on her log in the moonlight.
THE ORONSAY GOES DOWN
By “BULONG K. KANOWNA.”
THE s.s. Oronsay was pounding up
the South Atlantic, U.K.-bound,
when she got it. Amidships, too,
right in the for’ard stokehold on the
starboard side, killing five men.
The tinfish was well aimed, even if
the sub. was dead on our path. For it
was pitch-black (5.30 a.m.), raining, with
a disconcerting swell, and 800 miles from
the nearest land, West Africa, And, to
make it hard, we were doing close on
20 knots —a comforting speed when subs,
are mooching around.
Lt. Guido, of Italian Submarines,
caught us on the hop that morning of
October 9, 1942.
I did not hear the crash of the torpedo,
but awakened to find the metal stays of
the bunk vibrating and the ship trem-
bling. The engines had stopped and the
alarm bells were ringing the abandon-
ship signal.
Someone yelled for lights, and a Cock-
ney voice answered through the darkness
and the din: “There ain’t no bleedin’
lights. This ain’t Piccadilly, mate.”
The great ship shuddered again and
the deck took on a sharper list. An omi-
nous swishing of water came from below
and the port side, I found my lifebelt.
Then, steadying myself against the
severe angle of the deck, I stumbled
to the companionway. Tubby, the
steward, came along and said we’d been
torpedoed “in her guts.” We climbed to
the boat deck and shook hands.
“The old lady will tip over in this
swell,” Tubby said.
I moved along the boat deck on the
starboard side looking for number 13
lifeboat. Almost everyone was in the
boats, two or three of which had already
been lowered to the water. It was still
dark, but there was plenty of clamor
along the boat’s side to tell how things
were going.
MEN were running around from the
port side, yelling that the port boats
couldn’t be lowered because of the list.
I bumped into someone. It was Simmo,
good old Simmo from Southend.
“Blimey, Cock, wot’s this bleedin’
world cornin’ to?” he said. “I dunno,
mate. Blimey, I don’t.”
At last I found number 13 boat. It
was full of shapeless figures and noise.
Number nine, next door, was rattling to
the water. Someone screamed in it and
yelled “My leg, my leg!” The boat hit
the water with a dull thwack.
Two of the passengers, of whom there
were only a couple of hundred, were
standing scared stiff at the deck’s edge,
hesitating to jump across a three-foot gap
of water into the boat. I shoved them
to start them on their way and followed,
jumping into the bow, where I felt for
the for’ard gripe, which, together with the
after one, held the boat in a firm posi-
tion just below the boat deck. Released
the gripe and yelled if the after one had
been set free. An excited affirmative
came from back aft.
“Lower away! ” we bawled to the man
up top on the falls. The drum whirred.
One end only, the bow, was going down.
The gripe aft was not released.
As the nose dropped to the perpendi-
cular, I embraced a thwart and hung on.
It began raining human bodies. Many,
failing to get a secure hold, fell thirty
feet into the drink.
The gripe gave and the boat dropped
at a great speed. Apparently realising
that something was wrong, the man up
top on the falls braked the drum, pulling
us up dead, ten feet from the water. The
boat groaned audibly, and those of us still
in it were thrown into a struggling heap.
A bloke near me cried that he had broken
his leg and moaned softly.
Below in the water men were splash-
ing and shouting for help.
The boat remained stationary, swinging
gently. The Oronsay suddenly went into
a fit of rocking. Her great bulk lurched
over us like a mountain in a child’s night-
mare. A wave of terror swept along
the ship’s side. The lifeboat swung
violently, almost smashing into the steei
plates. A bloke tried to fend us off with
an oar, but it snapped.
The ship ceased rocking, and we
breathed again.
The oars were out in the number nine
boat, in which were several women. As
the oars dipped a boat came clattering
down from above. Women screamed and
men shouted wildly. With a crash the
rapidly-descending boat smashed cross-
ways on number nine. There was a tear-
ing of wood, and the occupants of both
boats were thrown into the water. More
frenzied threshing in the water.
Meanwhile we were still swinging to
and fro.
I was debating whether to take to
the sea or not, when the boat slowly
dropped into the water. We quickly
detached the for’ard fall, and others
fumbled with the after one.
'"THEN, without warning, the Oronsay
1 lurched and rocked again, this time
even more alarmingly. Again a wave of
terror ran up and down the boats. Fasci-
nated, we watched the great 20,000-tonner
leer over us. For a couple of seconds
she hung over us, keeping us in terrible
suspense. Then she fell back with a
mighty slosh.
We unhooked the after fall and got
the oars into the rowlocks. Furiously we
pulled three women and several men out
of the drink. Only a couple had lifebelts.
They had kept afloat by hanging on to
smashed boats. Oil was now pouring out
of the ship’s wound, calming the sea.
The water around us was clear of
struggling bodies. We began flailing the
water with the oars, and paused as the
captain’s voice blared through an ampli-
fier on the bridge: “No one is to return
to” Crash! The skipper’s voice was
cut off by the second torpedo, which
struck amidships on the port side.
We heard a geyser of water swish into
the air. Water from the boilers? Scald-
ing water! Those of us who could went
over the side and ducked our heads in
the water. Someone crashed into the
sea near by. It was Chief P.O. ,
who had been swept off a davit on the
top deck by the upward surge of water.
The geyser turned out to be cold sea
water after all. We clambered back into
the boat and were pleased to see the
Oronsay had returned to an even keel.
We pulled lustily to within 400 yards
of the ship, stopping often to pick blokes
out of the water. It was almost 6.30
and fast becoming light. Five boats were
still battling to get away. A motor-boat
was chugging up and down close to the
Oronsay like a busy water-bug. The big
wagon was on an even keel still, looking
as though she would float for a fortnight.
About 6.45 the third tinfish struck on
the port side level with tjie bridge. A
fountain of water rose half-heartedly into
the air. Still the Oronsay rode the swell
undaunted. There was no sign of the sub.
A quarter of an hour went by. The
motor-boat dashed in to the ship’s side
and took off the skipper, who slid down
a rope. We gave a cheer.
Hardly had the motor-boat got clear
when the fourth torpedo smashed aft into
the ship’s magazine. There was a dull
explosion and black smoke puffed into
the air.
A few expectant minutes, and then the
Oronsay’s stern very slowly disappeared
under the water. We could hear the
emergency dynamo still purring softly.
Like an old lady dropping into an arm-
chair after a hard day, the ship settled
back into the sea. The bow rose high
out of the water and then, majestically,
with a low roar, the big ship slid from
sight. The for’ard mast snapped as she
went. Wreckage shot to the surface.


The Bulletin
Vol. 64.—N0. 3310.
Wednesday, July 21, 1943.
DROPPING THE PILOT (for the time being).


The Bulletin
Tlie National Australian Newspaper
“Australia for the White Man”
Directors:
H. K. Prior
P. H. Prior
J. E. Webb
David Adams
HEAD OFFICE: 252 George Street. Sydney:
Box 252IBB; ’Phone 5797/
Victoria: Newspaper House, 247-249 Collins
Street, Melbourne.
Queensland; 239 Adelaide Street. Brisbane ,
Westralia; 33 Barrack Street. Perth.
New Zealand: Nathan’s Buildings (op p.
G.P.0.) Wellington.
London: 1 Hare Place. 47 Fleet Street,
London, E.C.4.
WARD AND CURTIN.
With his field of inquiry restricted by
Mr. Ward’s plea of privilege, Justice
Lowe had to return his commission with
two of the four questions referred to him
by Mr. Curtin unanswered, and a third
answered only in part. All arose from
Mr. Ward’s June 22 addition to his
Brisbane-line lie; “I am most reli-
ably informed that one important
report is now missing from the offi-
cial files.” His Honor reported that
“no document concerning the matter
known as ‘the Brisbane Line’ was on
June 22 or is now missing from the
official files,” and that the Minister had
not been informed that it was missing by
“any officer who had the custody of or
had access to the official files or by any
member of the Defence Committee or of
any of the Chiefs of Staffs Committees.”
That should have meant Mr. Ward’s
sudden and final disappearance from the
Ministry. No previous Prime Minister
had to deal with a colleague who stood
exposed in the sight of the nation as a
reckless and dangerous slanderer, too
base either to try to substantiate or to
withdraw and apologise for a sweeping
charge—in this case stealing and receiv-
ing national property —but if such a
position had arisen there would have
been a swift expulsion of the slanderer,
together with a complete amende honor-
able to all those directly or indirectly
aspersed. But that is not Mr. Curtin’s
way. His ideas in such matters are origi-
nal and peculiar—at least where Mr.
Ward is concerned.
Instead of getting rid of the unspeak-
able Minister the leader of the Govern-
ment wrote him a letter. Quite a
friendly letter to ‘.‘My Dear Minister”
from “John Curtin, Prime Minister,”
beginning considerately with the intima-
tion that “the report of the Royal Com-
missioner in the matter of an inquiry
into a statement that there was a docu-
ment missing from the official files”
would not be given to the newspapers
until Mr. Ward had received a copy and
acknowledged receipt. Then it was
stated that, “because of the plea advanced
by your counsel, vital questions in the
terms of reference were beyond the
power of the Commissioner to deal
with” and must be regarded as, “in effect,
still sub judice.”
These matters, therefore, have not been
decided and the Government has directed
that, as the question of the rights and
privileges of members is involved, the
matter is one which cannot be completed
until a submission has been made to Parlia-
ment. The Government has directed that
this submission be made at the earliest
opportunity.
Meanwhile:
The reasons which caused me to direct
you to abstain from the administration of
your office continue, and will continue
until the Parliament has dealt with the
matters involved. For these reasons I now
repeat my direction to you to abstain from
performing any of the duties of your office,
and have arranged for the Hon. E. J.
Holloway, M.P., to continue to act for and
in your place.
In his notorious Perth speech Mr.
Ward boasted of his close relations with
Mr. Curtin. “We have never doubted
each other’s sincerity,” he said, “and our
friendship has never been impaired.”
Here, for once, he couldn’t have been
lying. Keeping him in the Ministry under
a mere decree of suspension, which may
be lifted by Caucus if his party gets
a majority and he is still member for East
Sydney, without “submission of the
matters” alleged to be “still sub judice,”
is a matchless proof of friendship.
Sir Iven Mackay, whom, in defiance of
all the canons of decency which govern
the relations of responsible Ministers of
the Crown with military officers serving
it, Mr. Curtin dragged into his enforced
and ungracious rebuttal of Mr. Ward’s
Brisbane-line lying, working in the clumsy
innuendo that Sir Iven had been “ap-
pointed by the Menzies Government,”
was a witness at the Lowe inquiry. So
were representatives of other services.
On the evidence of these officers, his
Honor reported as follows:
No officer of the A.M.F., the R.A.N.
or the R.A.A.F. knew of any plan which
related to a Brisbane Line, so called, and
all stated that their only knowledge of such
an expression was derived from press re-
ports or like sources. They did have
knowledge, however, of what was called an
“appreciation,” submitted by Sir Iven
Mackay in February, 1942 [that is, four
months after the Curtin Government took
office]. This appreciation, Sir Iven Mackay
statea in evidence before me, was sub-
mitted by him voluntarily of his own
motion to the Government of the day. No
officer who gave evidence before me was
aware of any plan other than this in re-
lation to the matters Sir Iven Mackay
dealt with.
Mr. Ward has nevertheless announced
that “during the election campaign” he
will “submit to the public the evidence
regarding the responsibility for the Bris-
bane-line defeatist strategy” which
means, if it means anything, that he will
continue his Brisbane-line lying. After
his monstrous misuse of Sir Iven
Mackay’s name Mr. Curtin adopted Mr.
Ward’s line of attack on his predecessors,
using one of his Minister’s expressions,
“defeatist in outlook,” adding “and
preparation.” Presumably he is now pre-
pared to derive whatever party advantage
may accrue in New South Wales and
Queensland from Mr. Ward’s lying, while
taking credit for the suspension of Mr,
Ward in States where Wardism is a lia-
bility, his own included.
It is difficult to believe that the suspen-
sion of Mr. Ward will allay Westralian
feeling against that political embodiment
of Sydney larrikinism and the Govern-
ment and party which tolerate him and it.
The farmers have been in no tractable
mood since they discovered that three-
fourths of them would be debarred from
becoming clients of the Wilson-Chifley
mortgage bank, that 4350 of them would
be hit by the Scully wheat-acreage and
wheat-quota plans, and that the Scully
guarantee of 3s. lOd. a bushel for the
first 3000 bushels of bulk wheat, though
it might suit N. S. Wales and Vic-
torian farmers, was desperately un-
favorable to Westralians: Mr. Wise,
the State Labor Minister of Agri-
culture, has pointed out that “all
but 16.5 per cent, of the Westralian
wheat delivered to the No. 5 pool was
brought in by people who produced over
3000 bushels.” Then along came Mr.
Ward with his harvest-wages “tribunal,”
the majority being composed of a former
A.W.U. politician and a current A.W.U.
secretary, which issued an award that the
farmers haven’t got over yet. One result
is that a farm laborer, employed for 18
months at £4 a week, is claiming another
£9O on the ground that his harvest wages
under the “award” were £l3 a week;
and there may be many more of these
cases.
Mr. Ward had already infuriated the
Westralian farmers by sneering that
farmers in general were “always talking
about their poverty-stricken condition,
yet whenever one visits a country show
or race meeting one cannot get near the
entrance gates because of their cars.” He
has also infuriated Perth bread-consumers
by encouraging turmoil in the baking
trade, which has had three strikes in eight
months, going to the length of suggesting
in a letter that Justice Dwyer, Presi-
dent of the Arbitration Court, should
“cook” an award. Mr. Dwyer had
granted an application for day baking,
but refused the union the night-baking
allowance of 10s. a week, the union rep-
resentative consenting in court. The
award had to receive the approval of
Mr. Ward as Minister controlling the
pertinent National Security regulations,
and approval was —and still is—refused.
“As the Court dealt with the matter
of hours on its merits,” the Ward letter
ran, “the decision of the Court could
doubtless be issued without including the
provision for reducing the wages of the
employees affected, and the Minister
trusts that the Court may see its way to
promulgate its finding in the form he
suggests.” To this Justice Dwyer replied
that this would be “an outrage on prin-
ciples of honest dealing,” and that “the
letter might be construed as contempt of
Court.”
Perhaps one should not be too exacting in
these days, when industrial arbitration sys-
tems are the playthings of politicians. But
a word of warning may not be out of place.
The real point at issue in this case is
whether a Minister of the Crown is justi-
fied in issuing instructions or directions to
a Court with a view to having his wishes
carried into effect. It would mean farewell
to our boasted freedom and the impartial
administration of justice if bodies vested
with judicial powers exercised such subject
to the wishes or desires or orders of Minis-
terial authorities rather than to the dic-
tates of pure justice and reason.
It now appears that the precedent for
this ugly development of Wardism was
set by the Prime Minister himself. Just
before Parliament was dissolved it came
out in the Senate, in consequence of
action taken by a pertinacious new mem-
ber from his own State, Mr. Latham, that
on May 16, 1942, Mr} Curtin had, in a
letter addressed to the chairman of the
Commonwealth Publip Service Board,
given this astonishing 'instruction:
The Government desires as a matter of
policy that the provisions of any determina-
tion made by the Public Service Arbitrator,
but which is not yet in force, or of any
determination that may be made subsequent
to May, 1942, shall be applied only to re-
turned soldiers and members of an organisa-
tion within the meaning of the Common-
wealth Conciliation and Arbitration Act.
In short, a registered trade-union. The
minute was written three months after
the Government issued what it called its
“National Security (Economic Organisa-
tion) Regulations,” on which Mr. Curtin
himself said that, “broadly speaking,
wages are to be fixed at the levels ruling
on February 10,1942,” to which he added,
with a show of fearlessness which has
never been transferred into action, that
“absenteeism in industry, except for ill-
ness, recognised holidays and emergency
conditions, will be outlawed.”
Though public-service awards granting
increases in pay and allowances are, in
effect, distributions of public funds with-
out Parliamentary authority (Parliament,
of course, can disallow them, but never
does), the instruction has been obeyed.
It is the boast of young Mr. Hughes,
who is running for Reid (N.S.W.) as a
Communist - fellow - traveller candidate,
that his union has secured for male tem-
porary clerks in the Commonwealth ser-
vice increases of £36 p.a. to £4B p.a., with
“double time on Sundays, payment for all
public holidays, penalty rates for shift
work, three days’ special leave p.a.,
special transport allowance and allow-
ance for duty away from usual stations”
—restricted in all cases to Federated
Clerks. And persons on the permanent staff
entitled to draw travelling allowances are
rewarded or penalised according to
whether or not they belong to labor-
unions: so much for members, so much
less for non-members. This disgrace-
ful preference to Members of Our
Party (or the Communist party) is
exercised to the detriment of public
servants who, by virtue of their particular
duties, can’t belong to unions; for
example, “Hansard” reporters, who have
to be free from outside direction and
above suspicion of partiality. When
royal - commission, select - committee or
Premiers’ Conference work calls “Han-
sard” reporters away from Canberra (and
they cannot refuse) their travelling allow-
ances are less than those of unionists in
other branches of the service on the same
salary-levels.
So in some respects Mr. Curtin and Mr.
Ward think damnably alike, and their
labor-union bigotry is of the same brand.
Service Men and Strikes.
If Labor as a Government, now striving
to remain a Government, had appreci-
ated the extent of bitter feeling spread
through a large body of the electorate —
members of the forces and their people
and others —by the practically ceaseless
procession of strikes on the home front
a good deal more might have been done
than issuing repeated sets of stillborn
regulations. The effect of this bitter
feeling on Labor’s prospects in the elec-
tions is likely to be severe. It will be a
matter of a number of clumsy-looking
chickens coming home to roost together.
One lot will be the Communist ele-
ment. Labor as a Government would
throw up its hands in pious horror at any
suggestion that it was an associate of
Corns., and would point to its official
rejections of them, Mr. Curtin’s being
the latest. But it is significant that
Labor is the party the Corns, have tried
to get accepted into, with the idea of
taking control. It is also to the point
that Labor as a Government restored the
Corns, to legal standing as a political
group, on the curious ground that Russia
—since reported to have disowned them
—had come into the war, and Corns,
could therefore be depended on to help
the war effort they had been sent into
smoke for impeding!
Another of the feathered friends is the
inglorious Mr. Ward ; yet another Mr.
Forde. The chief method of “fixing” a
strike adopted by Mr. Ward, as Minister
for Labor, has been to arrive on the
scene, throw off some sulphurous abuse
of “the bosses” and bolt for the next
address where cheers might be expected
to be as plentiful for him as jeers have
later been. Along with Corns.—either in
control of unions or the main active in-
fluence within them—he has helped to
encourage among strikers a sense of
grievance, at a time when, by the only
comparison that now holds good, any-
body in work of any kind on the home
front is enviably well off. The point of
comparison is between living in safety,
with plentiful meals and with beds to
sleep in, against existence—while it lasts
—in the fighting in places, like the Western
Desert and Papua, abounding in diseases
as well as enemies armed with all sorts
of lethal weapons.
Mr. Forde’s part has been more that
of an unhappy instrument than an agent,
though an instrument with little sign of
resolution and with no sense whatever of
the feelings of service men. His share
in building up Labor’s huge deficit with
these was in using them as the easiest —
and cheapest—way of settling the Sydney
wharfies’ strike. Diggers and R.A.A.F.
men did that job under compulsion. Mr.
Forde and most others of the Govern-
ment he belongs to have been mighty
mouth-fighters against conscription. On
the past professions of practically every
one of them they would logically disband
the militia troops and leave the defence
of Australia wholly to volunteers. It is
part of the hypocrisy of their profes-
sions and their acts that they haven’t
done so. On the contrary, they extended
the boundaries for compulsory service,
though they kept the limits so close that
militiamen cannot be sent to the scene
of the Eighth Division’s tragedy and New
Zealanders are guarding the Australian
territory of Norfolk Island.
With views on conscription on these
lines —expressed in countless words and
in such damaging acts as the suspension
of compulsory training in 1929 —Mr.
Forde and the Government he belongs
to had no scruple whatever about enforc-
ing conscription for wharf work on men
who had volunteered for fighting. Men
already “in pool” for battle stations were
compelled to do the wharfies’ job from
day to day while they waited. Their
results made ordinary wharfie perform-
ance look like loafing ; but they worked
with bitterness in their hearts, doing the
job at all only because the same loyalty
which led them to enlist told them that
this, too, was in Australia’s interest.
Since then many of them have gone
north to help keep home-front strikers
safe and snug, but those of them still
living are not likely to forget when they
were Mr. Forde’s and his Government’s
conscripts.
Others who will be a while getting
over bitterness towards strikers are mem-
bers of the Ninth Division who, after
years of the conditions of the desert,
many of them more than once wounded,
and most of them with mates dead over
there, arrived at an Australian port and
were greeted by a strike “for danger
pay” by those asked to work their
ships!
Curiously, little of the feeling of any
of these gets published in Australian
newspapers. The most likely reason is
that there is a tradition of silence among
serving men. There is also a ball on their
writing for papers. But if Mr. Forde
and Government care to go among the
forces asking questions about strikes they
will hear enough to make their ears
crimson for life, and not all of it will
come from men actually conscripted to
do strikers’ work for them.
Apparently, Americans are tied to no
such tradition, and no ban seems to
apply to them, either. A very large
amount of writing in leading U.S. pub-
lications is done by men in one branch
or other of Uncle Sam’s forces. As well,
letters from troops on all sorts of sub-
jects of the day are freely published,
and naturally the U.S. coal strikes
brought forth a batch. Their interest
here is that their writers express the
same thoughts about home-front strikes
that Australian service men will express
to anyone who talks to them. As a typi-
cal example—typical alike of the pub-
lished comments of Americans and
the unpublished feelings of scores of
thousands of Australians—these extracts
from a letter by Pte. Edgett (in hospital
in New Guinea) “to John L. Lewis,”
leader of the American coal-strikers:
In this hospital there are fellows who
have spent from a year to 18 months
overseas. Some went through the Milne Bay
carnage, the Philippines and Java campaigns.
About 50 per cent, have wives and about
half this number have families to support.
Should we strike for higher wages, what
would your reaction be in our place? Living
in mud and dust, suffering under a blazing
sun, and always waiting for equipment—for
’planes and food—only to read that some at
home are too concerned with personal wel-
fare to worry about our precarious foot-
hold, still slippery with the blood of our
comrades. Are we or are we not entitled to
100 per cent, support from our country?
The writer made a further point which
applies to home-front striking in Aus-
tralia just as much as in America, and
which should be asked of any who lead
or encourage strikers:
Would you like to think that by lengthen-
ing the war by a day, a week, a month you
have cost lives of thousands of men?
However, the writer adds desperately:
Knowing the hard-headed, power-stricken,
selfish attitude you have assumed, it is with
small hope of influencing your actions that
this is written.
On the record to date it seems that there
would be just as small chance of in-
fluencing the actions of strikers and
strike-leaders in Australia by such a line of
appeal. Only determined action by a new
Government not afraid to govern looks
at all likely to wipe out what has been
the worst blot on Australia’s war record.
As to this, another published letter, by
an American soldier to his wife, declares
that “when 1 hear of these strikes and
then think of all those who have given
and are giving their lives, it simply
doesn’t balance,” and adds:
You will be voting soon in one or an-
other election. Vote for my brother and
for me. See how our representatives handle
the situation, and act accordingly.
A comment that no doubt some could
wish was a little less rudely topical.


[For election matter in this issue, John
Edward Webb, Cecil Mann and David Adams,
all of 252 George-street, Sydney, take the
responsibility.]
PLAIN ENGLISH
In Japanese Hands.
On the blackest day in Australian his-
tory officers and men of a fine A.I.F.
division, those who survived a hopeless
campaign, fell into the hands of the
Asiatic enemy. Before and since other
Australians of the three services became
captives, taken in the Dutch East Indies
and Australian territory.
For months after the curtain fell not
a word was heard of their fate. Anxious
relatives suffered anguish. The Red
Cross found itself almost swamped under
inquiries. It did what it could, exhaust-
ing Governmental, diplomatic and other
channels, but for a time it got nowhere ;
then information began to come through
in a growing volume. It has been estab-
lished that 7000 out of perhaps 17,000 are
in widely scattered Japanese prison camps.
A Prisoners of War Relatives’ Asso-
ciation came into being. With branches
everywhere, it maintains a close watch
on every item of news leaking through.
By circulating copies of letters it has
been able to bring comfort to some
anguished relatives. Now A.B.C. is keep-
ing an ear open through its monitor ser-
vice, and a system of getting word back
to the prisoners through the All-India
radio station is being tried. But why
should all this have been left to such
organisations?
Sixteen months after the ship was sunk
relatives of H.M.A.S. Perth men learned
through “unofficial reports made to the
Australian Red Cross” that 293 of the
681 missing were prisoners of war, and
an Adelaide mother was able to show the
press there two letters from her son, an
engineer-lieutenant, written from 2bntsuzi
p.o.w. camp, Japan. The Sydney branch
of the P.O.W.R.A. has several copies of
letters written by Australians in this camp
and, like the Adelaide man’s, they tell
of fair treatment.
But what has Canberra done? Some-
thing, no doubt, but it has said very little.
Some people at Bexley (Sydney) suggested
that their Federal member, Dr. Evatt,
while abroad should invite the Russian
Government, as a neutral, to seek infor-
mation and the P.O.W.R.A. backed them
up with a similar request to Mr. Curtin.
The Government offered no comment, and
nothing has been heard from Dr. Evatt.
When questions were asked in last
Parliament the customary Ministerial
reply was “Regret no information.”
Once Senator Fraser went a little —a very
little —further:
I understood that information was to be
supplied on the exchange of diplomatic
representatives between Japan and Aus-
tralia, but that undertaking was not carried
out.
The reference was to a promise made
by Mr. Kawai, the departing Minister to
Australia, who said that, in gratitude for
Australian hospitality, he would do what
he could to provide information about the
prisoners, though it was no part of his
diplomatic job.
A full and precise Ministerial state-
ment on a position so harrowing to at least
100,000 good Australians is long overdue.
"Victory" and Defeat.
On the union-boss front:
The gallant ten-weeks’ struggle of a small
party of anti-strikers, nearly all women, against
larrikinism disguised as unionism ended at the
week-end.
These brave people were employed on gun-
ammunition work in a Government annexe to
a Sydney factory, other parts of which were
rendered idle by a “sympathetic” strike. During
the ten weeks they withstood union threats
and insults, Ministerial hostility and the im-
pertinences of Government officials, especially
the wretched Garden. Informed by the firm
that it would probably lose its Government
contracts, “a threat to its very existence,” if
the struggle went on, they reluctantly decided
to end it, while maintaining their spirited re-
fusal to join a union and pay dues for the dis-
semination of Communist or Labor propaganda.
While the strike was in progress it was twice
pronounced lawless by Commonweatlh Arbi-
tration Judge O’Mara, who said also that
it was the Government’s duty to enforce the
law. He reported his finding to the Prime Min-
ister. The Prime Minister had on May 27
issued regulations to the general effect that
“persons in protected industries who fail to carry
out their duties in accordance with awards,
agreements or undertakings will in future render
themselves liable to military call-up or direction
by the Man-power authorities.” This was his
own summary of them, and he took upon him-
self the onus of enforcement. But when the
question of the lawless strike in the Government
munitions annexe was put up to him by Judge
O’Mara he at first temporised and finally
scurried away from his responsibility. He even
affected to doubt whether “Regulation 103” (his
own!) “applies to stoppages which were in
existence on the date it came into operation.”
But the week which saw this “victory” for
union larrikinism saw also a wholesome check
administered to the arrogance of union bosses
who have been plotting huge amalgamations,
giving them control of vast funds, without
reference to the members, except for an
occasional meeting at which “the mob” took
control, and planning more.
Principals in one of these plots were “Balance
Sheet” Thornton, of the Federated Ironworkers’
Association or Red racket, and Sharpley, of the
Arms, Explosives and Munition Workers’ Fed-
eration ; both Communists. Thornton’s Red
racket was a party to the strike in the Gov-
ernment munitions annexe.
According to “Balance Sheet’s” account,
negotiations for a Mighty Merger of 100.000
Unionists, from whom there could be extracted
a lot more than £lOO,OOO a year, were “success-
fully concluded at meetings in Sydney on
January 25.” Meetings of union members, who
are spread over several States? No; “meet-
ings of the Federal Councils of both unions.”
At these a “fine spirit of unity” was displayed
and a provisional council of 14 appointed, the
proceedings being rounded off with a “dinner
at which the Ironworkers’ Councillors enter-
tained the Munition Workers’ Councillors.”
Who paid for the dinner was not disclosed.
But the diners reckoned without two things:
the hostility of members of both unions, par-
ticularly Victorians and Queenslanders, and
Commonwealth industrial law. Though defec-
tive on many points this obliges proponents of
“mergers” to apply for Arbitration Court regis-
tration and to satisfy the Industrial Registrar
that they have conformed to the rules of their
own unions. In the Thornton-Sharpley case it
became necessary to ask the Industrial Registrar
to sanction a change in “the conditions of
eligibility for membership” and an alteration
of “the description of the industries covered.”
Both applications were refused.
In refusing them the Industrial Registrar said
“No such amalgamation can be brought
about without strict compliance by each organi-
sation with its own rules.” A Munition
Workers’ rule provided that the organisation
might be dissolved by a four-fifths majority of
members voting by ballot; but there had been
no ballot. And although the Ironworkers had
a rule allowing affiliation or federation there
was none envisaging an amalgamation which
completely deprived the union of its identity.
In his baffled rage “Balance Sheet” shouted
that “the amalgamation has been made a politi-
cal football by the worst anti-Labor forces in
the country,” adding with characteristic bluster:
“We shall appeal against the decision, but in the
meantime we shall take the necessary steps to
carry on the amalgamated union.” “Balance
Sheet” had better be careful. He is not now
dealing with shivering Labor politicians, ready
to plumb the depths of poltroonery in the hope
of keeping their fat jobs, but with Judges who
in the discharge of their duties refuse to be
“servants of the Government,” thte role assigned
to them by Mr. Ward.
Missing Surplus.
In an unsuccessful attempt to explain its
political gyrations and to justify its per-
sistent flattery of the Labor gentlemen it
is pleased to describe as “the Big Four,”
“S. M. Herald” tried to put Humpty
Dumpty Stevens together again. In its
almost complete break with the politics
of a century, Mr. Stevens is the one illu-
sion it has left.
Mr. Stevens, it seems, had ideas about
“credit expansion” which were not
shared by “too conservative associates.”
In spite of being thus handicapped, he
“rebuilt the political and financial struc-
ture of the N. S. Wales Government after
something approaching an anarchic revo-
lution” ; and he “left the State” with “a
surplus, instead of a deficit, of fourteen
millions.”
In all charity it may be supposed that
the comma after “deficit” was a printers
error, but no correction appeared.
Mr. Stevens left no surplus. He was
Premier from May 13, 1932, to August 4,
1939, and it was an internal revolt against
his finance that brought him down. He
had budgeted for a 1938-39 credit bal-
ance of £7700 and on the score of it
legislated for sweeping increases in Min-
isters’ and Assemblymen’s salaries. To
this of course, the beneficiaries didn’t
object, but when the horrible truth came
out about the desperate shifts to which
he had been obliged to resort m that
financial year down came Humpty
Dumpty from his wall. He resigned as
Premier and quitted the Assembly in the
hope of getting a Federal seat. But
though “S. M. Herald” and its junior
contemporary ran him as an “outstand-
mg candidate for Lang he scored barely
a fourth of the primary votes.
A glance at any of the -Auditor-
General’s reports during the Stevens
~ A ~
years would have rid the Herald writer
of the odd notion that Mr. Stevens was
a financial Wizard of Oz. Reviewing the
1937- armnnts in rosnert wbinh a
tyj/ 38 accounts m respect of which a
surplus ot £53,880 had been claimed, the
Auditor-General reported that there had
been an actual deficit of £418,500, bring-
inn the apenmiiffiteH Hefirienev since
moo ?Q , deficiency since
1928-29 to £30,643,990, in addition to
which “loan liability to the Common-
wealth” had since 1931 increased to
£66,058 900 In his table of annual
results for the Stevens period, the A.-G.
gave these other figures, a Surplus column
being blank: —
Accumulated
Deficiency DeSncy
1932- .. ..£3,640,400 £21,147,300
1933- .. .. 3,779,000 24,926,300
1934- 2,540,000 27,466,000
? 9qt 000 ?o 75Q 400
1936-37 '4 65'920 30*225 300
1938- I! 2,895*200 33*539*100
When Mr. Stevens had to leave, the
accumulated deficiency was well on its
way to £36,106,900. In his report on
1947 the Auditor General had the melan
1942 me Auailor-Creneral naa tne melan
choly note that the “measures undertaken
to ameliorate [depression] conditions re-
suited in large additions to the deadweight
, u . c ~ , . . 7
debt, the cost of which remains a burden
on present-day revenue and will continue
SO for many years.” And that was not
all: “A similar burden arises from the
interest and sinking-fund charges on
loans raised to make good the cash short-
age brought about by the deficiency.”
If in trying to put Humpty Dumpty
together Granny has ideas about run-
"ing him as an “outstanding^ candidate”
again, she had better drop them.
PJ _ in Wnlar
I7S6ISOVI I QKcS In WOTcr.
“Ek Dum” recalls another day in Sicily:
It shows the rich opulence of English naval
history that not one ghost should have risen
to celebrate the return of the British Navy to
Syracuse, which gave it so much service in one
of its greatest victories.
Syracuse old town lies on the island of
Ortygia, divided from mainland Sicily by a
narrow, walled-in strip of water. The island
is crammed with antiquities, but one of them
has a paramount interest for Britons, two in
particular—Admirals Cunningham and Ramsay,
R.N. It is a little spring in which the clear
water bubbles up among the papyrus. The
sacred grey mullet play hide-and-seek in it—
Cicero saw them doing it. A few years ago
you could see Anglo-Indians, who used Syracuse
as a sort of pressure chamber in which to let
their constitutions down to European level,
watching those uninspiring fish at play.
The spring is the spring of Arethusa. As
the legend has it, that saucy nymph of Elis,
loved by A lpha eus , weis brought; t . be
g U °™ chang-
jng himself into a river, followed under the
ocean to join her—he it is who flows tinkling
out of the . cavarn - aS een
years week a kittle frail
Englishman stood beside it, as no doubt
Hannibal, Himilco, Dionysius and Theocritus
h“hicky o Son’!E:
Its si g na ture was so written all over him.
The black patch where one eye had been in
his fever-yellowed, hollow-cheeked face dated
from . the July °* J ° t u u n ° grave I fiercely
bouncing cannon shot had Hung gravel neictiy
into his f ace at Calvi. . .
The empty right sleeve and the thinness of his
form bore terrible witness that on July 24, two
days short of a year since that misfortune, he
ha * heJ d unsuccessfu ii y to try to open a
second front on Santa Cruz de Tenerife, five
months after he had been through the battle of
St. Vincent.
The interval had been a bad year 1 fie re-
mains Ql his arm had been hacked oft hurriedly,
a nd in the dark. He had suffered months ot
blinding torture in London and in Bath. But
in him there was something of the quality o
Ert Ji an h d ad h joined his squadron only on April 10
at Cadiz—■exactly 145 years to the day before
Montgomery took Sfax—hoisting his flag in the
Vanguard (74).
Always ill and m pain, he had reconnoitred
the vast French nava i Reparations of Toulon.
He had seen Vanguard nea rN ashore,
m a ternble gale, then a rebtt ed with her
culean efforts in the l^tfehaihorofSanPete
Sardinia. He had lost his frigates in the
gale, and knew not where they were, and with-
out Fleet 00 SC ° UtS ’ n ° eyCS t 0 Seek
Blindly and grimly he swept the Mediterranean
in his search—from Sardinia to Naples, to
Messina, to the empty harbor of Alexandria
and back to Siclly - Hls provl , sloas ,fi ere l un out ’
d j s wa ter was gone or undrinkable; his men
wer e sore and tired; himself, the little rear-
admiral, who was still under 40, seemed utterly
beaten and lost. Prri
Then he had his first piece of luck. Emma
Hamilton had seC ured permission from Maria
Carolina, sister of Marie Antoinette, Napoleon's
best hater—“that incarnation of wickedness”
b^ s^ alled her ~~ to P rovision and water at Syia-
kelson turned from the spring of Arethusa.
a little later he wrote, with the clumsy left
hand which never had time to learn to hold a
pen, to Sir William and Lady Hamilton:
, dul y 22 > 1798 -
waKd,“nd
surely, watering at the fountain of Are-
thusa, we must have victory. We shall sail
with the first breeze, and be assured I will
return either crowned with laurel or covered
with cypress....! hope I shall be able to
find the French Fleet and be able to get
at tbem -
Less than a week later, at midnight on Augus
L he had so destroyed the French Fleet at the
Battle of the Nile that only two frigates
a way fo teil the tale. The French admiral had
been killed, the boy had stood on the burning
deck- , dbe whole political situation of Europe
had been altered at a blow Napoleon was
isolated in Egypt. And Horatio Nelson had a
new head wound. .... ,
Arethusa became a hallowed name, always to
be continued in the British Navy—there is
always a ship of the name. Syracuse awaited
the arrival of Ramsay and Cunningham, who
hves at the seat of one of Nelson s captains.
HIS MASTERS’ VOICES.


THE ECONOMY SAUCE
My SAUCE
* * * * *
SPEED VICTORY WITH
YOUR MONEY
BUY
WAR LOAN BONDS
THAT
WHAT IS YOUR
TIME WORTH?
One of the major problems to-day is to find time to give proper attention to
one's personal financial affairs—time which must be spent, very often, at the
expense of earning capacity. And not only time, but worry and nervous
strain. In these particularly anxious times, with all their complications and
problems, it would be a very great advantage to you to be relieved of the
necessity for worrying about your personal financial affairs. Let Burns Philp
Trust Company Limited relieve you of the details of administration of your
estate. During your lifetime and afterwards, this Company will give unin-
terrupted, faithful, and efficient service.
If you are interested in learning details of the service which this Company
can render to those anxious to be relieved of the burden of administration of
their affairs or estate, two special books will be sent on request. Write
for them now.
DIRECTORS—James Burns - Robert John Nosworthy - Lewis Armstrong - Joseph Mitchell
Manager—C. H. Chester
Burns Philp Trust
COMPANY LIM I T E P
1 BRIDGE STREET. SYDNEY
PHONE- B 7901. Box 543 B - G ’ P -°- Sydr,ey -
BP 13-43
POLITICAL POINTS
With £7,000,000 or so socked away,
thanks to idiotic Canberra philanthropy
and an unemployed-relief tax (still levied
under a fancy name, though there are
no unemployed), the Labor Government
at Brisbane had the face to suggest that
the Labor Government at Canberra, out
of its 1942-43 deficit of £400,000,000 or
so, should finance an anti-buffalo-fly cam-
paign. This detestable spirit, shared by
other provincial Governments, was carried
to the Premiers’ Conference at Mel-
bourne, and when it was put to the greedy
crowd that £10,000,000 of the £41,000,000
p.a. they get from Canberra should be
forgone as a contribution to war funds
the reply was that they might consider it
some day. But, as usual, they were all
there with hands out when loan money
for “works” was mentioned, and they and
their serhi-Governmental authorities are
to share 12f millions this year—the Lord
alone knows why.
Lang’s “Century” claims that “Curtin
acted unconstitutionally in suspending
Ward as Minister” and that, since “the
Governor-General is responsible for the
payment of salaries,” Ward is still en-
titled to his share of the Ministerial
screw-pool. If these are Eddie’s views
he is keeping them to himself, but there
is nothing to prevent his quitting Curtin
Labor and joining another Lang group.
Britain has had lady members since
1919, and it is time one or two reached
Canberra, A lot of the old prejudice
against them must have been broken
down by the miserable performances of
men who have been making sumptuary
laws for the household, particularly the
Coles-McCall Rationing Commission.
Mrs. Lyons, who is coming out for Dar-
win (Tas.), Bell having retired, may be
the first to arrive. No one has had
greater experience of running a home,
and in debate she would hold her own
with most of the men. Long ago, when
her husband was State Labor leader, Mrs,
Lyons helped to make up a ticket, neces-
sary under proportional representation,
and polled surprisingly well.
A slogan that might (and might not)
help Coles’s candidature: “Coles and
Curtin for Henty”! In the brave days
of old a Labor man got 18,835 votes in
Henty. Unfortunately the U.A.P. man,
Gullett, got 56,404. Gullett’s soldier son,
who sports the M.C. as a remembrance
of his fighting in the Middle East and
Papua, is the U.A.P, candidate this time.
The author of Why I Fight has been
delivered of another and, in one respect,
weightier lucubration: “Why I Am
Standing for Reid,” So that he may
stand for Reid he has resigned from the
Sydney Assembly, after nearly 30 years,
but the conditions admit of his seeking
readmission. Seeing that his opponents
are Morgan, who talks more tosh than
almost any other Fed. Lab. politician,
and the smirking Hughes, who has aban-
doned the pretence that his “party” had
no connection with the Corns., it should
not be necessary.
It is a tradition at the Union Club,
Sydney, that the managing director and
editor of “S. M. Herald” must be mem-
bers. No epidemic of self-destruction is
reported from the club, but the worst
was feared when the “Herald” was
running a series of articles, apparently
written to justify its emotional acceptance
of Curtin’s leadership of the nation.
There must at least have been a whole-
sale smashing of glasses after one par.
appeared;
What are we to say of parties which,
having the support of the wealthy and edu-
cated classes, have, excepting stopgap
Ministries, given Australia only two Prime
Ministers since 1910—Mr. Bruce and Mr.
Menzies?
No paper did more than the “Herald”
to thrust Hughes on the Liberals and
Lyons on the Nationalists, nor has any
paper, except Communist offal-rags, been
so bitterly unfair to Menzies,
Curtin has had to explain that when
he suggested that a football game was
beginning in the Pacific he did not expect
V.D.C. men to take it that they were at
liberty to go back to their football, golf
and bowls. Possibly he had been reading
in the meantime a remarkable revelation
made in U.S.A. by Dr, Murray Butler,
Columbia University’s G.0.M.;
Ten years ago the Japanese Government
sent an envoy, a member of the Bar, who
said he had been instructed by his Govern-
ment to tell me its plans for the Pacific.
He told me his Government had decided
that its 80-year relationship with the
Western Powers had been harmful, and that
the Japanese were determined to end it.
He said they had decided to win rule over
the Pacific, and to conquer China, Indo-
china, the Philippines, the Dutch East
Indies, Australia and New Zealand, even if
it took them a hundred years. 1 told the
President, and I told the British Foreign
Minister, but it made no impression on
them. To this day I have no explanation
of why the Japanese Government sent him.
Astonishing but credible. After the
Russo-Jap war the Japs asked Herbert
Spencer to advise them on the course he
thought their country should take, and
he did.
Brisbane “Courier-Mail” mordantly
wonders whether the war will end before
its city’s milk-zoning scheme comes into
operation. It points out that experts have
been working on it for 14 months and
that Sydney and Melbourne managed to
handle their zoning problems in a matter
of weeks. But the “Courier-Mail”
mustn’t assume that Sydney’s milk prob-
lem has been solved. Sydney has only
just emerged from a milk famine and
now milk vendors are putting up the
price in defiance of the board, though a
member of the board (once a boss of
the Ironworkers) is threatening penalties.
It all shows what happens in the field of
commodities when Governments inter-
fere.
Victoria is learning that, no matter
how divided party politicians may be on
most issues, there is one great issue on
which they become unanimous as if by
magic—raising the salaries of members.
Though they never once mentioned it
during the election campaign, they want
a 50 p.c. rise to £750 p.a., though God
knows they do little enough for £5OO p.a.
Melbourne “Argus” has worked it out
that there are now more than 200 war-
time boards and commissions, 820 statu-
tory rules embracing over 2350 regula-
tions, 14 new Ministerial departments
and about 100,000 Commonwealth public
servants. Also that National Security
regs. cover more than 2550 pages of
print running into six volumes.
Queenslanders are struggling dazedly
to their feet after the shock of learning
that some Government employees who
struck have been sacked. They were
woolclassers, who sometimes have to
press, weigh, stack and brand bales,
and the A.W.U. contended they
should get pressers’ wages under the
shearing award. But the Industrial
Court said that, since classers’ wages
were more than pressers’ wages, the strike
was wrong and the sacking justified.
The Commonwealth Fodder Conserva-
tion Board has been abolished at its own
request. Its functions are to be taken
over by Director-General Bulcock,
Scully, the Minister, has thanked it for
its “most successful efforts.” Scully can
be relied upon to do things like that,
though everybody else knows that the
board found itself unable to conserve
anything, unless it was its opinion of
Scully.
On 1940 figures, Ms.H.R. with the
shakiest seats are Laborites Pollard (Bal-
larat; majority 281), Lawson (Brisbane;
419), Curtin (Fremantle ; 661) and Cone-
lan (Griffith; 750), the U.A.P. man Beck
(Denison ; 536) and Collins, of the Coun-
try party (Hume; 921). All the con-
stituencies have had changes in electoral
population, and for that reason—and
others—l94o figures may be no trust-
worthy guide to results next month. But
they are sufficient to make at least half
a dozen sitting members uncomfortable.
A really smart political organisation,
noting how near F. R. Lee went to un-
seating Curtin in Fremantle three years
ago and how, in the Kalgoorlie by-elec-
tion, '■ polled the greatest vote ever
given to a non-Labor candidate, would
have at once picked him for an easier
electorate, preferably Henty—he is a Vic-
torian by birth, and Melbourne was his
stamping ground as secretary to the
Associated Chambers of Manufactures.
As things have fallen out, Lee is going
up for Fremantle again as one of two
U.A.P. men. If they pull together, and if
their supporters exchange preferences
better than they did last time, the P.M.
will have more anxious days and nights.
Three years ago the U.A.P. primary
vote in Fremantle exceeded Curtin’s by
2319 —Clarke 3344, Lee 26,274, Curtin
27,299. In the distribution of preferences
Curtin got 1480, in most cases because
Clarke people carelessly “voted down the
ballot paper.” That was what saved Curtin
for bureaucracy and union bossism.
L. L. Hill, M.L.A. for Albany (W.A.),
has been looking up loan expenditure on
ports. He finds that since 1924 Perth Gov-
ernments, nearly all Labor, have spent
£3,100,000, of which “Albany has received
£131.” Yet Nature made it far away
the best of the lot. And because “there
are no facilities at Albany for wheat,”
much of the 2,000,000 bushels or so
grown annually in the Albany zone is
railed to distant Bunbury at a nominal
saving of Is. sd. per ton in railway
freight-rates but at an actual loss, shared
by the taxpayer, of 2s. per ton or so on
extra haulage and handling and Harbor
Board losses.
Others may be liars, but soldiers like
their facts clear and exact. Hence a
letter from Senator Wilson referring to a
statement “which, if uncorrected, may
create a wrong impression”:
As there is no such thing as a Tobruk color
patch you were evidently referring to the minia-
ture of the Ninth Division color patch. The
color patch I wear is a headquarters color patch
with a miniature of the color patch of the 2/7th
Australian Field Regiment, Ninth Australian
Division, being the regiment with which I pre-
viously served. The whole'of the Ninth Division
was not in Tobruk. I served with the 2/7th
Australian Field Regiment at Mersah Matruh,
Bug Bug (near Hellfire Pass) and Safafi in the
Western Desert during the siege of Tobruk.
During this period I was a lance-sergeant.
Mission to Moscow, by Joseph Davis,
has been made into a Hollywood film.
The Leftist brotherhood acclaims every
foot of it, but others say it is so very
pro-Soviet that it telescopes the three
treason trials into one, and, so far from
including the “shot” of Molotov and
Ribbentrop shaking hands, excludes the
Russo-German pact altogether; and it
is so very anti-British that it rather gives
the impression that the B.E.F. invaded
eastern Poland in September, 1933, with
Field-Marshal Chamberlain in command.
No doubt we will see it in Australia —
probably before “Desert Victory.”
The huge surpluses being put away in
vague post-war funds by State Govern-
ments in Queensland and N.S.W. are too
loosely defined. There is nothing to stop
any future Government in either State
from applying the millions to anything,
especially to extravagant vote-catching
public works programmes and the setting-
up of unwanted and unwarranted de-
partments. State Governments are like
that.
Churchill’s “Never was so much owed
by so many to so few” is capable of
many adjustments according to circum-
stances. A Sydney man, emerging from
a long struggle with a department,
muttered “Never was so little done by so
many for so much.”
At the end of 1942 the U.S. Government
had over 2,700,000 civilian employees
and more were coming in at the rate of
3000 a day. In the War Department
alone there were 1,200,000, “not including
soldiers who do clerical work” ; and there
were 500,000 in the Navy Department,
81,645 in Agriculture, 47,500 in Interior
and 24,500 in Commerce. For every 175
men in the armed services there were
, 100 civilians on the Federal Government
payroll. With only 7,000,000 to work
on, Canberra and the six State Govern-
ments can’t approach that record, but
in proportion to population they are emu-
lating it.
Lang’s “Century” is publishing inter-
esting details of “Balance Sheet” Thorn-
ton’s career as a unionist.
In February, 1932, he applied for mem-
bership of the Clothing Trades Union,
claiming that he had worked as a presser for
his father in Brisbane. Then he applied to
the Municipal Employees for membership,
claiming that he had worked for the
Toowong Council. His next claim was that
he had worked at the Epping quarries as a
member of the A.W.U. Then he turned up
as a delegate from the Ironworkers’ Union,
his case being that he had worked at Brook-
lyn under an assumed name.
Now as “Balance Sheet” Thornton he
orders the Government about, “puts the
boot into the ‘scabs,’ ” a “scab” being
anyone who stands up against him and
his gang, and is in a position to dredge
funds running into hundreds of thou-
sands of pounds from his serfs and to
refuse to tell them how the money is
spent. And all with the shivering consent
of the “Labor” Government.
From a curl in Piper’s Loop, Went-
worth electorate: —
A lot of people out this way are beginning
to wonder what it is about our Eric Harrison
that persuades so many people to have a
crack at unsticking him from his seat. In
the 1940 election “outstanding candidates”
arrived from foreign parts, loudly boosted by
the morning press. Coldly and effectively the
electorate outed them. This time Eric is to con-
tend with two ladies, one a sort of Pink dis-
ciple of, Moscow sporting A.L.P. colors and
the other a full-blown Com. Vaucluse and its
environs have experienced a lot of strange visi-
tants, but a female Com. is something entirely
new. Then there’s Mr. William D’Arcy Went-
worth, also known as “Young Bill.” “Young
Bill” is one of those energetic fellows who are
always going to blow the lid off something, but
it won’t be Harrison’s lid.
After the war, one of the first and
most baffling jobs confronting Australia
will be the disposal of the apple and pear
inquiry. It’s now in its fourth month, is
costing about £2OO a sitting day and looks
like rivalling Tennyson’s brook.


EXBI-42
“This Will be a Darning Needle Year”
—says the Prime Minister.
A stitch in time saves nine. An occasional call on your Exide Dealer will keep your
battery up to the mark. When replacement is needed remember . . .
BATTERIES
Still Keep Going When the Rest Have Stopped
Let this be Your
Wartime Slogan.
PERSONAL ITEMS
The Walter and Eliza Hall Institute in
Melbourne isn’t housed like the latest
Commonwealth department, yet it is
world-famed, so much so that Dr. Charles
Kellaway, its director for 20 years, has
been made Director-in-chief of the Well-
come Laboratories in England and
America. They will get a scientist of
unusual breadth of culture and chatm.
His successor will be Frank Macfarlane
Burnet, the brilliant young man who has
been on the track of the ’flu germ for
many years and has been immunising
thousands of soldiers in the present war.
Born at Traralgon (Vic.) and educated at
Geelong College and Melbourne Univer-
sity, Burnet was Beit Fellow at the Lister
Institute in London for two years. With
the Walter and Eliza Hall for 20 years,
he has been assistant director since 1928.
Eddie Ward’s East Sydney electorate is
going to see a lot of Vincent J. Brady,
D.S.C. (U.S.), 8.A., schoolteacher, sol-
dier, solicitor, lecturer, sometime alderman
and mayor of Manly. A Bathurst native,
he graduated B.A. at Sydney University
and was teaching when the 1914-18 war
arrived. He won his D.S.C. with the
VERSUS WARD.
Australian Field Artillery in support of
the 27th American Inf. Division in 1918.
After a year lecturing in English at Paris
University, he came back to Australia,
studied law, and in 1926 became a solici-
tor. He has been honorary solicitor to
the Diggers’ Assoc, for many years and
has had a hand in many a fight on be-
half of returned men and their depen-
dants. Interjectors will find it hard to
penetrate his imperturbability.
Geoffrey Sandford Reed, K.C., be-
comes Reed, J., of S.A. Supreme Court,
vice the late Cleland. Previous experi-
ence: Acting-Judge (1935-37) when
Murray, C.J., was on leave, and again
when Napier, C.J., was Royal Commis-
sioning on Banking. Son of a Port Pirie
Methodist minister, Reed, J., went from
Prince Alfred to Adelaide Uni. for his
Bachelor of Laws degree in 1913. A year
later, at 21, he was called to the Bar.
Associate to George Murray till he joined
the A.1.F., he became a partner in
McLachlan, Reed and Griffiths in 1920.
He was hon. sec. of the Law Society
from 1924 to 1927, later its vice-president,
and also law lecturer at his old Uni. He
is chairman of the Aliens’ Tribunal in
S.A.
From The Bulletin’s correspondent
in New York;
“Evatt asked me cable advise you Churchill
delighted Lindsay cartoon.” The cartoon was
that in which Norman Lindsay, without having
to make any very great call on a cartoonist’s
license, showed Churchill as an old-man bulldog
smoking a cigar outside his kennel, with a
variety of bulldog pups gambolling in his pro-
tective custody in the foreground—a comment
on Churchill’s statement: “I have not become
the King’s First Minister in order to preside
at the liquidation of the British Empire.”
George H. Wise, past his 90th mile-
stone, is the oldest Victorian solicitor in
active practice. For a quarter-century a
Sale (Vic.) borough councillor, umpteen
times mayor, with J. L. Purves the earliest
big noise in the A.N.A., Assistant Min-
ister for Defence, Postmaster-General and
holder of other State and Federal posi-
tions, he breezily reports “Health still tip-
top.”
Another of the churchmen with un-
usual records is Rev. Charles Copp,
R.A.A.F. chaplain. The R.A.A.F. publi-
cation “Wings” states that he enlisted
with the sth Battalion in August, 1914,
fought on Gallip. and in France, and
transferred to the Aus. Flying Corps in
1917. He did not take holy orders till
1926, having meanwhile been a Mel-
bourne optician.
“Bohemian”: “Offside Mac” J. McKenzie
(mentioned B. 7/7/’43 as having passed on in
Melbourne) was one of the most brilliant wing-
forwards Maoriland has produced. A native of
Carterton, he was selected for the M.L. team
to play Australia in 1893, and represented M.L.
in ’94, ’96 and ’97. In 1930 he joined the
Wairarapa “Leader,” and afterwards was
with Wellington “Dominion.” Uut ne had
always a liking for Australia and got a job on
a Melbourne paper, retiring tour or hve years
ago. Man-power shortage caused by the war
brought him back into harness with Melbourne
“Age.” One of his brothers (E. McKenzie) is
sole All Black selector, and there are two sons,
Lieut. McKenzie, R.N., and Roger, of Mel-
bourne. The title of “Offside Mac” came
through his impetuosity. Referees knew he was
not a pointer, but of such an impulsive nature .
that at the beginning of a game he always started
before the whistle. After doffing the jersey,
he took the whistle for a time. Also he was
appointed collector in his church, and was told
to take one side —commencing at the altar and
working down seat after seat, the plate to be
passed along till it came to the wall and then
handed back to the rear seat. For about half
the side the modus operandi worked excellently
till the plate reached an old man, who con-
tributed his mite. The offertory was being sung
and the old chap was apparently so absorbed
in devotion that he unconsciously passed the
plate back again to the worshipper in front of
him. “Forward pass there, sir!” roared Mac
with a vehemence that shook the chandeliers
and astounded all the worshippers.
Charles South has been feted by the
G. and R. Wills Co. in Adelaide on com-
pleting the remarkable total of 62 years
in its service.
Once fighter ace in the Royal Air Force
and then head of a merchant firm in Fiji,
Wing-Commander Clive Brewster has
added another bright splash to his color-
ful record. He lately persuaded the
American crew of a Liberator to let him
join them as an air-gunner in a raid on
Koepang (Timor). Zeros intercepted, and
in a lively scrap Brewster brought his
.50 guns into action. He thus becomes
one of the very few members of the
R.A.A.F. who have fought in the air in
both this war and the last. Brewster was
a lieutenant-colonel in Fiji when he
joined the R.A.A.F. as a flying-officer in
1940. He now commands an officer
training school in Melbourne.
As Gordon Coates’s successor, William
Perry takes useful experience with him
into the M.L. Executive Council. He did
three years’ service in the 1914-18 war,
and for eight years has been president of
the Returned Services Association, which
thinks so much of him that it has asked
him to hold the post despite his Minis-
terial job.
Most travelled man in the U.S. Army
in Australia is reckoned to be Colonel
Frank L. Burns. During 30 years he has
served in Mexico, Hawaii, Panama,
Porto Rico, Bermuda, Trinidad, New-
foundland, Iceland, England, France,
Germany, China, the Philippines, New
Guinea, Finland, Australia and all the
Americas. He was with General Per-
shing in the punitive expedition to Mexico
in 1916, in France in 1917-18, with
General MacArthur and the army of
occupation in Germany, in the battle for
Manila last year and at Milne Bay. He
comes from Detroit (Mich.), and was in
the National Guard at 17.
Still doing his bit for Australian litera-
ture, though handicapped by wounds
(with the old A.I.F. at Villers-Bret.), Phil
Whelan is continually adding to Aus-
tralian books in his collection in the
National Library in Canberra. Whelan
knows a bit about life. A Warwick (Q.)
native, he ran away to sea on an Ameri-
can boat at 14, left it in Chile, worked
his way up the coast to Antofagasta, got
a free railway ride to the nitrate fields at
Atacama Pampa and a year later was
aboard a boat for England. After dodg-
ing about between Hamburg and Wales
he came back to Australia under sail,
rested, headed for California, toiled and
tramped through most of Central and
South America and got back to be
appointed assistant-observer at the Mount
Kosciusko Observatory. Later he was in
charge of the Observatory, was transferred
to the Brisbane weather bureau, and,
when it folded up, went to Ocean Island
phosphate fields. After that he looked
over most of the isles around Samoa, the
Solomons, New Hebrides, etc., and then
joined the A.I.F. Pensioned off totally
disabled, he took up collecting Austra-
lian books as a hobby. By 1937 he’d got
too many and offered them to the
National Library, which now values the
“Whelan Collection” as one of its trea-
sures and intends to make it permanent:
there are about 600 books, with pictures
and autographs of the authors. Whelan
lives at Dee Why (N.S.W.) and keeps up
a regular correspondence with Australian
writers.
As U.S. President, Roosevelt has strung
up a record of “firsts” that reads like a
Bradman or Lindrum performance: First
President to go outside the U*S. in war-
time ; first to travel by ’plane while in
office ; first to serve three terms ; first
to visit a foreign battlefield of American
troops in war-time; first to appoint a
woman (Labor Sec. Frances Perkins) to
his Cabinet; first whose First Lady took
public office. Other Presidential “firsts”
listed by a N.Y. newspaper include Jeffer-
son, first (possibly last) to play the fiddle,
and Jackson, first to kill a man in a duel,
over a slighting of Mrs. Jackson.
The merino sheep stud of the Murray
family in S.A. celebrates its centenary
this year. It was founded by the brothers
A. B. and John Murray. The A.B. de-
scendants have inclined to the law —the
late Chief Justice of South Australia was
one of them; but the John Murray
branch has kept the studmastership
strictly in the family.
With just as good reason as he was
once well known as a racehorse owner
(especially for his successes round South
Australian country meetings), leading
S.A. pastoralist George Nicolson is to-
day, in his seventies, known as the Father
of Whyalla. Run by himself and three
sons, he has four sheep stations surround-
ing Whyalla, which, when he first took
up land there, consisted of two or three
houses. He has always taken a lead in
FATHER OF WHY ALLA.
the town’s progress. Altogether he con-
trols some 500 square miles of the salt-
bush country, carrying about 40,000
sheep, and there is no soil erosion on his
holdings—he’s one of the few men who
in the early days had the foresight to
guard against that by preserving the salt-
bush. He started out as a blacksmith.
Victoria’s Leg. Council President:
When Clifden Henry Andrews Eager, M.L.C.
for East Yarra, assumed the mantle of Presi-
dent of the Vic. Leg. Council, he inherited one
of the most continuously-worn pieces of head-
gear in Victorian history. It had kept Frank
Clarke’s head warm through 20 Melbourne
winters and too hot through 20 Melbourne
summers, and certainly it fits in with the vast
pii.ciita, comnnaded, cloistered precincts of the
talking shop in Spring-street. Nor would it be
C. H. A. EAGER.
inappropriate in Selborne Chambers, Chancery-
lane, where, as K.C., Eager writes voluminous
opinions on the financial relations between
Commonwealth and States and other matters of
high legal import. There is something unique
and other-worldly about Selborne Chambers,
with its long galleries and balconies. From
the modern architect’s point of view, enough
space is wasted to accommodate twice as many
Gents One as are there already. Even the
address, Chancery-lane, is hoary with tradition.
It is actually a bit of Little Col., but the old
title has been retained, to the confusion of new
postmen. Eager has been unofficial leader of
the L.C. since 1937. The son of a Dublin
Congregational minister who came to Mel-
bourne in 1855, he was educated at State schools
and Melbourne University, then set up as an
accountant. Admitted to the Vic. Bar in 1911,
K.C. in 1935, he entered the quiet pooi ut
Upper House politics in 1930 and was Minister
wnnout portfolio with Stanley Argyle. He was
a noted oarsman of the Albert Park Club in
his young days and latterly a friend of Meldrum
and an art patron.
R. B. McAllister, assistant Under-Sec.
Premier’s and Chief Secretary’s Depart-
ments, goes to London as Queensland
Agent-General. He’s probably the best-
known of the northern State’s depart-
ment heads.
Into the silence:
In Melbourne, A. R. Birch, a leading execu-
tive of Commonwealth Oil Refineries, with
experience in India and England. He had only
recently been appointed chairman of the com-
mittee which nurses the flow of oil from over-
seas to Australia.
At 90, Captain Peter Theet, M.L. master
mariner. A native of Denmark, he took to the
sea at 15, and was awarded the Swedish Legion
of Honor for gallantry in helping to rescue the
crew of a Swedish ship sunk in Pacific waters.
For six years before the last war he was
manager of Nauru Island, selected because of
his knowledge of German, also for his know-
ledge of phosphates, which he had gained on
Ocean Island. The laying of moorings in 200
fathoms of water at Nauru where ships could
anchor while loading phosphates was one of
his achievements. He recently lived at Gratia
(Auckland province), was a J.P. and for a time
chairman of the Waitemata County Council.
At 85, Lord Clifford, who left England in
1876 and lived in M.L. until 1890, working on
a station, and then farmed in Tasmania. Re-
turned to England in 1916, when he succeeded
to the title. He was a radiologist of some note.
At Armidale (Vic.), Arthur Gerald Byrne, for
many years secretary of the Victorian Author-
ised Newsagents’ Assoc., chief president of the
A.N.A. and president of the State Schools’
Assoc.
Buried in Adelaide (though he died in Syd-
ney), Archimandrite Heliou, head of the Greek
Church in S.A. for some 17 years until his
health broke down. Before that, he founded
the first Greek Church in Westralia. It was an
enormous funeral, with the Anglican Church
giving strong official support.
In Adelaide, at 63, one of its most successful
businessmen, whose name was yet quite un-
familiar to the public, Robert Rogerson was
a Scotsman who came to S.A. 30 years back,
and, after studying the local grocery trade as
an assistant, took one shop in the Central
Market about 1920. This grew to 43 “Central
Provision Stores” in time; and the initials
C.P.S. are as well known in S.A. as the name
of their proprietor is unfamiliar.
In Sydney, Harry Bateman (“Joe”) Archi-
bald, nephew of The Bulletin’s J. F. Archi-
bald. An artillery captain in the 1914-18 war,
“Joe” was a son of the late J.A., one time of
the old Warrnambool stock and station firm
Archibald and Bateman.


Society
"AND IT'S PRINTED
WITH WIMBLES INKS"
“Pitt St.”: Our tram had got about
halfway to the city when it pulled up
and stayed pulled up. Passengers glanced
uneasily ahead and saw about a score of
trams blocking the way. More trams
could be sighted around the bend, all
stalled. Full of questions, passengers
began getting out and walking ahead,
some running, others taking it easy. Two
men, well-dressed and prosperous-look-
ing, sat in front of me and fulminated
about the tramway authorities, the Gov-
ernment and all responsible for the hold-
up. Then word came back. There’d been
an accident. A poor devil had got
jammed between a tram and a bus and
suffered dreadful injuries. Were the two
sympathetic? “Blast him,” moaned one
as they got out. “What did he want to
pick this time of day for? Now I’ll have
me whole day thrown out of gear. Cotter
meet So-and-so at two o’clock for a round
of golf, too.” His mate didn’t say any-
thing. I hoped he was stricken dumb, but
I doubt it.
* * * *
“Zake”: Sydneysiders have long learnt
(o swallow with the carb. soda of cyni-
cism the sentences handed out to hit-and-
run killers on the rare occasions when
they come up for sentence. A 37-year-old
soldier steered a heavy truck into a sta-
tionary tram, killing a passenger and the
conductor, and drove away to stage a
fake accident to account for the damage.
He pleaded that he was horrified at what
he had done, and panicked. Two years!
:!c * 4= 4-
“F.S.”: With the passing of the brown-
out most of the greatest masterpieces of
painting in Melbourne’s national collec-
tion have emerged from their hiding
places and are hanging in their old places
at the National Gallery. The public Can
enjoy once more the Rembrandt self-
portrait, Raeburn’s “Major Wardrop,”
the Corots, Gainsboroughs. Cezannes,
Van Goghs and the Van Eyck. The
assumption is that these costly and irre-
placeable treasures are no longer in
danger, but is it not better to be sure
than sorry? Why not substitute copies
for the duration? There are artists in
Melbourne . quite capable of making
replicas of the pictures which to the
average eye would be indistinguishable
from the originals. The copies wouldn't
be wasted after the war. They could be
sent around the schools to bring art to
the country.
* * * *
“Bo”: Everyone in Allied countries
must have heaved a sigh of relief at the
German announcement that Field-Mar-
shal Rommel was not shot down by Spit-
fires and killed while on his way to
assume command of the Axis forces in
Sicily. Where (as Katisha asked despair-
ingly on hearing of the “execution” of
Nanki-Poo) would the world get another
like him? Time was when the desert
glamor boy ran Budenny neck and
neck in the flapper press. Budenny is
never heard of these days, and the f.p.
dropped Rommel like a hot spud after
the previously-despised Alexander and
Montgomery commenced to chase him out
of Africa. That so discredited a com-
mander should still be in request at a tight
pinch seems to show that things are not
going well with the Wehnnacht. Be that
as it may, it is to be hoped that, when
the light-hearted Erwin skips out on a
fast ’plane just before his last Sicilian
possie surrenders, the Allied airmen, in-
stead of trying to shoot him down, will
give him safe escort to his new sphere,
wherever it is. He is too precious to
take risks with.
H= * ♦ *
“Butter”: I’ve sampled all sorts of
signs in tobacconists’, from the curt “No
smokes” to the polite “We regret to an-
nounce that we have no smoking
material,” but the best of them all is in
Sydney’s Bond-street: “No tobacco or
cigarettes. Fair dinkum.” It may eradi-
cate from some minds the morose belief
that tobacconists hold back supplies for
favored customers.
* * * *
“Avon”: In the matter of giving a
warm welcome home to returning war-
riors, the Maori can show the pakeha
many a point. A company or so of sick
and wounded of the Maori Battalion
which came home recently had a typical
reception. These matters follow an
ancient ceremonial. The soldiers entered
the hall in single file, chanting a song of
greeting. The gathering, that included
Apirana Ngata and all the Maori bigwigs
from a hundred miles around, thundered
out a welcoming chant. There were prayers
and hymns, then some short speeches in
Maori, then lunch. About the best
speech was made by a pakeha, Lieut.-Col.
H. G. Dyer, who went out as a captain
and wound up as battalion C.O. He said
that on Crete his Maoris were attacked
on both sides; their position seemed
hopeless ; surrender inevitable. But they
fought back on both flanks, yelling
valiantly, and drove the Germans off.
“After that,” said the colonel, “I asked
for nothing better than to command that
"How many times, Higgins, have I to tell you I don’t Want Water with
my whisky?"
company till the end of the war.” Notable
too was Ngata’s compliment to the
colonel: “You had fine material, true;
but without the fine training it could not
be made the fine battalion.” Yes, they
manage these things very prettily across
the Tasman,
* # * *
“Clooter”: In a par, about H.M.
frigate Lagan, which recently downed a
U-boat, “Jindivick” (B. 14/7/’43) says it
is the first public mention of the modern
edition of an ancient type. Had he for-
gotten the corvettes, which have been a
pain in the neck to U-boats for the past
couple of years? The old wooden corvettes
ranked next below a frigate in the days
of oak, usually having only one tier of
guns and acting as escorts and scouts as
their modern counterparts. I’ve often
wondered what an old-time French or
Dutch admiral would have said had he
encountered a modern British corvette.
“Ease 'er hack a bit. Cap., and I'll let him have it."
“Melbn”: Russell Grinwade, donor
of Captain Cook’s cottage, considers it
would be fitting, in commemoration of
Melbourne’s centenary, to erect a bronze
group representing the landing of Batman
and party on the site at the foot of William-
street. *The suggestion has its aesthetic
drawbacks.. There was nothing dramatic
about the landing, and history is silent
about what Batman said outside “This
would be the place for a village,” which
is not the sort of remark that would in-
spire a sculptor or a poet. There is scope
for sardonic treatment in the Founder s
buying half the colony from abos. for a
few beads, blankets and hatchets, and the
subsequent rejection of the claim by the
shocked authorities in London, but satire
doesn’t go well with centenaries.
* * * *
“Pawang”: Having run out of coupons
at the start of the bitterest winter in
Melbourne’s history, I was compelled to
wear less clobber. Instead of feeling
colder I found myself feeling warmer, so
I took more off and found the pheno-
menon continued. I then tried the same
experiment on my bedclothes. I had
shuddered through previ-
ous winters under a mound
of blankets that would
have astounded a Fishskin
Tartar. The improvement
in bodily temperature pro-
duced by a 50 p.c. cut has
led me to the conclusion
that too heavy clothing
interferes with the circula-
tion, physical exercise pro-
duces perspiration, and as
the moisture can’t evapo-
rate one goes around in
a cold pack, every breeze
or draught gives one the
shivers and one thinks one
hasn’t enough clothes on
and huddles oneself into
another wrapper. Next
year, if I can get a pass-
port, I am going to Pata-
gonia to join a nudist
colony.
Petermac”: Jumbo Smith, the s.p.
man, was finally landed by the Johns.
“What’s your name?” asked the sergeant.
“George Smith,” says Jumbo. “What’s
your name?” repeated the sergeant in a
deeper, menacing tone. “1 tell y’ me
name’s George Smith. ’ “Do you want
us to make it hard for you?” “But me
name is George Smith,” expostulated
Jumbo. Then he had a brainwave. Hay-
ing no desire to spend a wintry night in
the cells, he gave the cops a name that
sounded Russian with Yugoslav trim-
mings.
$
“A Major”; On “Waltzing Matilda”
and other Australian ditties:
I’m afraid that even the testimony of Miss
Macpherson, as adduced by “El V.” (B.
14/7/’43) and supported by “D.H.R.” (B.
7/7/’43) will not convince anyone with an
ear that Barr’s air to “Thou Bonny Wood of
Craigielea” has any but the most fugitive and
accidental resemblance to “Waltzing Matilda.”
George Limb, of Hobart, who has 14,000 song
tunes in his collection, says the downward scale
passage in “Craigielea,” relied upon by those
who see a resemblance to “Matilda,” can be
found in many other songs, including “Rule,
Britannia.” “El V.’s” “Bold Fusilier” seems a
likely forerunner of “Matilda,” and a search
is going on for the music of that ditty. In
the meantime the prospectors might con-
sider “Country Gardens,” immortalised by
Percy Grainger. It contains the “Matilda”
thematic material, much more interestingly de-
veloped. Difficulty is that Sharp and Macil-
waine’s morris-dance researches took place
long after “Matilda” was scored, but even that
may be overcome. The Bulletin’s J. B. Hig-
ginson, when I played him “Country Gardens,”
said “I know that tune well. It’s a handker-
chief dance I often heard in Yorkshire as a
boy.” And while resemblances are under dis-
cussion, has anyone noticed that Carl Finger’s
“Song of Australia” starts like “In Cellar
Cool”? Personally I’m not impressed with any
of the “Australian song 4 ” candidates —“Ad-
vance, Australia Fair,” “Matilda” or the Linger
anthem—but I am impressed by the testimony
of many honest, intelligent people who assure
nie that ’‘Matilda” appeals to them as typically
and essentially Australian.
% Jfc SjS #
“Uramao”: A bobby on his beat late
one night in Wellington (M.L.) rubbed his
eyes when he looked into the display win-
dow of a large furniture shop. Comfort-
ably ensconced on beautifully upholstered
Chesterfields lay two lads ip khaki, fast
asleep. They’d had a few 'and couldn’t
find a lodging, so took advantage of an
unlocked door. The Law provided other
accommodation.
DANGER CURVES.
“She’s got curves that spell danger.” —Movie ad.
Beware the lure of laughing eyes
And soft, seductive lips as well.
And all the power that in them lies
To fascinate and magnetise
The masculine susceptible!
In minstrelsy a winsome face
For many an ode or sonnet serves,
But few have sung the lilting- grace
And witchery of danger curves.
In Eden, ere was Adam made
Perforce to dig and Eve to spin.
No beauty parlors plied their trade
Supplying adventitious aid
To rope prospective husbands in.
And none were needed, I suppose,
Nor did it grate upon his nerves
When Adam got, unscreened by clothes,
A fleeting glimpse of danger curves.
Though some may simulate alarms,
What rapture to assthetic tastes
Lurks in the soft and soothing charms
Of rounded shoulders, necks and arms
(I’m not so shook on hour-glass waists).
Ah, blame him not, the hapless swain
Who from some past allegiance swerves
And (like the driver of a train)
Is victimised by danger curves!
Still, when by skirted dames beset
Some buxom blonde or plump brunette
Trousered in slacks your eye observes,
One may reflect with mild regret
It’s not impossible to get
A bit too much of danger curves.
N.S.W.
MIDFORD.
CARPE DIEM.
Carpe diem. That’s make the most of what
You can, in all available directions.
Take it from me, you’re like to miss a lot
Of such amenities as now you’ve got
After th’ elections.
When these are done, I’m haunted by a fear,
Although to put it from me I endeavor.
Restrictions on the sale of clothes and beer,
Now slightly modified, will reappear
Harsher than ever.
These raceless Saturdays are full of woe,
They leave all dead-game sports aggrieved and
troubled.
They may be cut right out, for all we know.
But how on earth could we endure the blow
If they were doubled!
For weeks ahead these shores of ours will ring
And rock to dialectic cuts-and-thrustings,
To metaphors that bloom like flowers in spring,
Riots of rhetoric and reasoning
From halls and hustings.
You’ll have it dinned at you with emphasis,
A truth to be absorbed without misgiving
(Though one in normal times you’re apt to miss),
That all earth holds no land as fine as this
In which we’re living;
No sturdier patriots with aims so high
As those who fondly hope your votes to carry;
And none so competent to certify
Their sterling worth as blokes like you and I,
Tom, Dick and Harry.
Carpe diem. It may be three years hence,
Chaps, ere we’ll hear again such miscellaneous
And lavish tributes to our solid sense,
Our savvy, judgment and intelligence—
And all spontaneous!
N.s.w.
T. THE R.


“Craiser”: Sports the country over will
not be surprised to hear that Phar Lap
leads by several lengths in sales of Vic-
torian National Gallery publications. In
fact, Rembrandt’s self-portrait, Rodin’s
Minerva and Corot’s “Bent Tree” are so
far behind that no sensible bookie would
bother to quote odds against them. Sales
of the gallery’s photographic reproduc-
tion of the equine god totalled £258 in
the latest financial year for which details
are available.
* * * *
“Wodgil”: I learn from Mr. Moses,
the g.m., that A.B.C.’s news “sessions,’’
as recently altered, are full of “quality”
and “effective” (B. 14/7/’43). Listening
to the 7,45 effort that morning, I heard
bits about the campaign in Sicily and
the one in Russia, and was then switched
violently to the Australian “news.” It be-
gan with something Mr. Bulcock had said,
turned to Mr. Ward, then to a French
national concert in Sydney, with some
blah about Mr. Somebody who was to
lecture in between “items,” and so on for
several minutes, the stuff put over being
the smallest of small beer. Then, with
another violent jolt, a return to the over-
seas news, or snatches of it. Himself
now apparently confused by this prepos-
terous method of presentation, the an-
nouncer forgot our own war with Japan.
• There wasn’t a word about it, though
apart from our interest (to scores of
thousands of listeners personal and inti-
mate) in the doings of our own lads in the
north, we had been told overnight that
“another naval battle” was “raging in the
Kula Gulf.” The “effective” broadcast
was rounded off with an issue of “State
news,” but “here is the State news” is
always the signal for me to turn off the
wireless and read the State news in the
morning papers. So much for the morn-
ing “news ‘session’ ” that is crammed
with “quality.”
♦ * *
“Hamer”: An Australian town may
lack a Palace Hotel or even a Royal, but
I know of not one that does not pos-
sess a Commercial. The name came into
favor after the Commercial Travellers’
Association was formed. The association
offered to give its O.K. to pubs that were
prepared to suit bagmen in tariff and
accommodation. In those days boarders
were as important as bar trade, and pub-
licans fell over one another to get C.T.A.
patronage. Soon pubs which had the
C.T.A. cachet began to blossom forth as
“The Commercial Hotel.”
jjc 5{S
“C.Q.”: A Melbourne daily has dis-
covered an infant prodigy in a university
student who, since the age of six, has
been able to spell the longest word in the
language backwards the moment he hears
it. He is obviously a visual type, and
can conjure up the image of the word as
clearly as if it were set down in print be-
fore him. I am also a visual type, and
after reading the item I experimented
and found I could spell words up to three
syllables backwards without any effort.
An extraordinarily large proportion of
people are not visual at all, and are quite
unaware that they lack a faculty inherent
in others ; so they are apt to be amazed
at its manifestations. I once handed a
story I had written to a philosopher
friend, and after a few minutes he handed
it back and said “Very good. I like it.”
1 was inclined to feel insulted, as I
imagined he had merely skimmed
through it, but he quickly showed me by
his comments that he hadn’t missed a
word. He told me that when he wished
to remember a passage he had read years
before in a book the whole page would
appear photographically before him. One
of Australia’s most distinguished women
painters, now dead, painted many of hex-
most accurate and living landscapes from
visual notes she made in a suburban train
that took her to and from the city.
“Ike Hollar”: Urged to listen to in-
fant wonders who figure in a questions-
and-answers radio stunt, I suffered
shocks. Apparently able to answer all
sorts of queries involving ancient Greece
or Rome and English and American his-
tory, the precocious brats could not tell
their public what a wombat was, and not
one had heard of the bunyip. One kid
said that a wombat was a sort of club
hurled by means of a sling, but bunyip
didn’t evolve even a guess. And an
answer that named Toby Barton as the
first Australian Prime Minister went
begging to the third kid.
* * * *
“Lord L.”: “Papagallo” may feel a
thrill at the memory of the oratory of
Alfred Deakin (B. 7/7/’43); but political
oratory doesn’t stir me. The best bit of
oratory I have heard for a long time
came from a very young Air Force pilot
who had just flown a gigantic ’plane out
from England and was being given a
civic reception at the Town Hall. After
a Minister of the Crown, an archbishop,
a high permanent official and sundry
British plenipotentiaries had suffused the
occasion with solemn observations, the
young man was invited to reply. “On
our way out,” he remarked simply, “one
of my English colleagues told me that
Melbourne was a very wet city. Well,
he was right. It is a wet city, and” (indi-
cating the Lud Mayor’s table groaning
under a forest of bottles) “it is wet in
the right place.” If Deakin melted audi-
ences as this unexpected sally did he must
have been all that “Papagallo” says.
X $ * *
“S.T.S.”: I was in the chair at a com-
mittee meeting lately when one of my
younger colleagues spoke about a ques-
tion without making it clear which side
he was on. I could have asked “What
are you driving at?” or the new and
useful American “So what?” but, wish-
ing to be polite, I said “But just what
point are you trying to make?” He was
evidently rather hurt. “I am not trying
to make a point,” he said. “I just wanted
to say that....” and then he did say
what he intended. What’s wrong with
“making a point,” or when did it come
to be reckoned wrong?
sK * * £
“Pawang”: I see that the parents of
the Dionne quintuplets have decided that
the girls are now at an age when they
must retire from the public gaze. All
the same their associations have been
fixed in early childhood, and did children
ever have stranger associations? Each is
one of five who caused a world-wide sen-
sation by being born of one mother simul-
taneously and surviving. They deserve
no credit; that belongs mainly to the
doctor who performed the amazing feat
of rearing them successfully. But their
prestige is as great as or greater than that
of royal princesses, who share with them
"Roast turkey again! What about a nice stew sometimes, Orderly?"
a status derived from birth and not de-
pendent on individual merit. This could
work out to the quins’ disadvantage.
Being already unique, there is less neces-
sity for them to strive for distinction than
there is for the ordinary individual.
* * * *
“Spokeshave”: I’m for the Argentine
Judge who fined a couple for naming
their children Jupiter and Zoroaster on
the ground that parents should not give
children names that might evoke the
ribald laughter of other children. It is
time the principle was more widely ap-
plied, I was named after the hpro of a
novel fashionable at the time 1 uttered
my first wail on this miserable planet.
The fact that it is now borne
by a statesman, two generals, one
V.C. and several fighter pilots is
no compensation for the fact that
the name was regarded by my school-
mates as sissy, and the amount of ridi-
cule it earned me made life a burden. I
was relieved when somebody detected a
vague resemblance in it to the surname of
a man who had been hanged for seven
murders and chose the murderer's
moniker as my nickname.
* * * *
“C.Q.”: One of the war-time spectacles
in Melbourne is the tobacco firms’ carts
going the rounds of the tobacconists in
the suburbs and being trailed from one
shop to another by inveterate smokers
on foot, on bicycles or in motor-cars.
“Spokeshave”: A big man who almost
filled the shop walked into a tobacco-
nist’s in Melbourne and asked for a
packet of fags. “You were in yester-
day,” said the assistant sharply ; “haven’t
you any sense?” A successful applicant
commiserated with the disappointed sup-
pliant outside. “Damned cheek, I call
it,” he said. “Why didn’t you give the
blighter one in the eye?” “Nowadays
the customer is always wrong,” remarked
the big man philosophically.
* * * *
“Jindivick” on an English experience.
Those Bulletin cover ads. showing English
ruins take me back to a tiny village in Someise
where, just 15 years ago, wandering with a
friend along the leafy lanes, 1 came upon a
village. No life was here, only desolation and
ruin. Six houses there were, thatched-rooreu
and stone-walled. A stout stone wall surrounded
each garden, in which weeds and wildnowers
mingled with a riot of hollyhocks, sunfloweis
and Canterbury bells. Each roof was rotten
and decayed and some had fallen through into
the rooms below. Doors hung ajar and shutters,
rotting and broken, swung from the walls.
Within each house was old-fashioned solid
furniture, such as graced country homes a nun-
dred years ago. Table linen, bed linen ancl
clothing lay perishing in chests and cupboards.
In one house a table lay set with all the neces-
saries for a meal. On sideboards and mantel-
pieces and in dressers were crockery ol rare
design and delicate manufacture. Silverware
and cutlery-were there. Only the occupants
were missing. Later we found out that in the
course of years the villagers had died out one
by one and the families had become extinct.
There had been no heirs, because about that
time there had been a big migration of the
young generation to the attractions of Australia
and Canada. My great-uncle was one of those
who just on 80 years ago left his home m that
quiet village and came south in search ot
adventure.
* * * *
“L. 0.”; The credit given by “B. A.
Ker” to the piety of the pioneer congre-
gation of St. Augustine’s at Newington
(B. 23/6/’43) must be slightly discounted
by the fact that for about 25 years after
Blaxland left the property (1863) it was
carried on as Newington College. Dur-
ing that period upwards of 50 boys
trudged heavily four times every school-
day into that church for lessons. The
masters always referred to the church as
“The Chapel,” but while M. C. Howe,
LL.D., was headmaster it was best
known as “Howe’s Hell,” and an alter-
native name, never explained, was “Tin-
key’s.” Soon after Joseph Coates the
cricketer became headmaster the name
was changed to “Crook’s Chapel”—be-
cause the “head” could pitch them two
feet to the off and they took the middle
stump. The step had also another handi-
cap ; it was the best piece of stone in
the district whereon to sharpen a pocket-
knife.
* * H= #
“Strict Veg.”: The war having closed
so many avenues of investment there is
a boom in antiques and works of art in
Melbourne. A recent auction resembled
the old-time wool sales where buyers of
every race and admixture screamed and
shook their fists in the face of the
auctioneer. Whether the investments
will turn out to be gilt-edged is another
matter. People are ransacking their
rubbish heaps and attics for discarded
chairs and vases, and ancient oil paintings
are being resurrected. There was a simi-
lar boom 30 years ago. The resources
of the city suddenly dried up, and the
hordes of buyers started to invade the
country. In many a cottage that harbored
an old couple they found grandfather
clocks, brass candlesticks and pepper
castors which were family heirlooms and
had been handed down from generation
to generation. The further they pushed
out the more these objets d’art appeared
to thicken. People in the know were
aware that city dealers were carting them
out and giving them a setting where their
authenticity would be taken for granted.
* * * *
“Tuart”: “I like the Poles,” Napoleon
said—“their enthusiastic temperament
pleases me.” He liked one of them, an
enchanting countess, too well, the con-
sequence of the manoeuvre being a son
who in Louis Napoleon’s time cut some
figure in French diplomacy. But the head
of the Bonapartes (his “nephew’s” right
to the family name has always been
doubted) never let his liking for the lady
and her people influence his Polish
policy. All our Diggers, seamen and air-
men who have had first-hand experience
of Poles as fighting men like and admire
them. Possibly it was because of this
that our unsophisticated Government at
Canberra volunteered to look after Polish
affairs in the U.S.S.R. when the new
Soviet policy left the Poles without offi-
cial representation there. If it means
that Australia will become involved in
the incomprehensible politics of Eastern
Europe and will loom up in that region
as a benevolent, if distant, uncle, it may
turn out to be the worst day’s work our
innocents ever did.
“Spasebo”: In the exhibition of Soviet
Culture in Melbourne, the art of the
photographer could scarcely go further
in depicting the changed face of modern
Russia and phases of the Russian war
effort. Of particular interest is the enor-
mous importance attached to Art in Pro-
letaria. Photographs of contemporary
authors, composers, artists, architects,
poets and actors abound. In a similar
exhibition in Australia nobody would
expect to see portraits of Norman Lind-
say, Margaret Trist, Roy Agnew or any
others of our multitude of artists, authors
and composers. LJnfortunately, the only
manifestation of the art of the Soviet
notabilities the exhibition affords is
photographs of modern buildings, and
they are just like the latest fashions in
New York, London, Sydney
and Melbourne.
H 5 $
“El V.”: True it is that the
western end of Sicily has seen
most of the great invasions (B.
14/7/’43). There Aineas
landed ; there Anchises died, to
the sorrow of anguished Brit-
ish schoolboys; there Poly-
phemus flung the little islands
they call The Ants at Ulysses
(according to Samuel Butler,
anyway); there came Hannibal
with a vast fleet; there Diony-
sius the Tyrant set up the first
artillery of history on the Mole
of Motya and pounded the
town to bits with his catapults,
a few miles down the coast
from Marsala (“The Harbor of
God”), which was the Roman
H.Q. in the Second Punic War
and from which Scipio set out
to ruin Carthage. Lucius
Catulus; Lucius Julius, be-
sieged by Hamilcar ; St. J ulian
driving off invaders with his
hounds ; Peter of Aragon land-
ing to save Sicily—after Sicily
had very unreasonably resented
the Angevin conquerors put-
ting a bride through the for-
mality of being searched for
weapons on-her way to church on an
Easter Tuesday—these and a myriad
others chose the shimmering white har-
bors for their descents on the island to
which Musso. sent a message that he was
attending it “in spirit.”
* * * *
“Pedant”: Mark Twain (B. 30/6/’43)
showed admirable taste when he adapted
“Green sod above, Lie light, lie light!”
to his need, but the thought is probably
as old as human burial. Thus Martial:
Lie lightly on her, Earth, for she
No heavy step e’er laid on thee.
and, more satirically, Ammianus-Meri-
vale;
Light lie the earth, Nearchus, on thy clay
That thus the dogs may easier find their prey.
* * * =l=
“Aries”: The U.S. Navy claims as its
luckiest man seaman John Nitchok, of
New York. He was washed off the deck
of a destroyer in a storm at night, and
was washed up on the deck of another.
Good, but the R.A.A.F. can tell many a
better one, Here’s one: Sergeant-Pilot
Tom Umbrage, of Footscray (Vic.), having
a look-see over Tunisia, was attacked by
five Melo9’s. He shot two down. The
others attacked him from three sides and
his engine caught fire. Realising all was
up, he took to the silk, and began his
descent from 20,000 ft. One of the enemy
came at him from below, intending to
finish him off. Doing some quick think-
ing, Umbrage did some ’chute navigating
and hurtled towards the approaching
Jerry. In a flash, he had landed in the
cockpit. Thfc enemy pilot was knocked
cold. Sergeant Umbrage tossed the inert
body overboard and resumed the fight,
raised his score from two to four and
flew his prize home to base. He was
given the D.F.C. and promoted to
Acting Flight-Lieutenant (with pay).


ABORIGINALITIES
"Prop”: I was at Joe Henry’s place
when Joe got the news that he’d scooped
a substantial prize in a lottery. He put
down the envelope carefully, left the
room and shortly returned carrying a
double-barrelled 12-gauge and a couple
of cartridges. He loaded the gun and
put it on a chair. I looked at his missus,
trying to make up my mind to be a hero,
but she took no notice except to tell the
nippers to go out and play. Joe started
fiddling with the wireless, and when it
was going properly he crossed the room
to the gun, picked it up and sat down in
ihe chair. Quite calmly he sat on, a type
of the sublimest human eijdurance, until
Bing’s yawping of “All your Christ-
mases be white” was over. Then as the
Andrews Sisters started Joe took careful
aim and blew a Min. hole clean through
the set. Realising that I was the witness
of a great and patiently-awaited revenge
1 shook Joe’s hand and, in comfortable
silence, we departed in the direction of
the pub.
• * ♦ * 4
"Moyhu”; Cats aren’t the ooty ani-
mals adept at concealing unwanted off-
spring from man the destroyer. We
found Strawberry in a far comer of the
paddock standing over a red and white
bull calf, which reclined in the long
kangaroo-grass, chin resting indolently
on a damp buttock. The mother bent
down and licked the calf, turning now
and then to glance in our direction. Bill
had the axe and was about to obey Dad’s
instructions to knock the calf on the head
if it were a bull. But before he could
get close enough Strawberry charged.
We got clear, but only just. Then the
other partner to the union approached
at the double, attracted by the bellowing
of his spouse, and stood guard while
Strawberry nosed her offspring to its feet
and made off with it into the scrub. Dad
searched the paddock next day and found
Strawberry, but not the calf. A month
later we cut it out of a hollow log where
the mother had concealed it. She had
juggled the calf so that it could get its
mouth out of'a knot-hole, through which
she fed it by straddling the log.
* -t * t-
“B. A. Ker”; Tobacco-chewers are, un-
iortunately, still in our midst (B.
30/6/’43), and I don’t know a habit less
desirable in a workmate, especially when
the addict sports a drooping mo., as did
the last one I encountered. His habit of
doing “what a barber can’t do” (spit-
ting on his work) didn’t endear him to
his fellow-bricklayers, and though brickies
are not a fastidious breed the manoeuvres
employed to avoid the position on the
scaffold next to “Spitting Mick” would
have shamed a chess-player. One day a
new laborer started, wheeled his barrow
up, and was replenishing the mortar
board when a horrible mess landed
squarely in the centre of the shovel. For
a long, electric minute the new bloke
glared as though deciding whether to
throw the shovel at the offender or heave
him off the scaffold. Finally he ex-
ploded; “I’ve worked amongst horses,
cows, sheep, rabbits, dogs, goats and
pigs, but I’m damned if I’ll work with a
blasted llama spittin’ at me!”
“Zake”: Tobacco-chewing? I knew a
station-owner at Baan Baa (N.S.W.) who,
on being nipped for “a bit o’ plug,”
would dive a hand into his coat pocket,
pull out a fistful of assorted plugs and
offer them generously. Then he’d look
at the crystals which had been hauled out
with the tobacco, blow some of them off
and deliver himself thus: “Ar, cripes, it’s
that box o’ cyanide that busted in me
pocket. Never mind, it’ll rub off.” When
the would-be extractor of nicotine juices
would thereupon announce his decision
to postpone his chewing to a more appio-
priate date the tobacco-owner would
“Got your ration-book with you?”
regretfully return the assorted plugs to
his pocket. I found out that “cyanide”
was washing soda.
Jjc % %
“Sur Cingle”: “Edjudina” needn’t have
boiled that full-bodied water (B.
23/6/’43). The fact is, of course, that
when the stomach is really empty the
germs of disease have no effect, simply
because they are devoured as soon as they
arrive. A cobber of mine survived a
perish of 29 days simply by soaking all
the food he had —a putrid beef bone and
a handful of chaff—in the small quantity
of water remaining in the canteen. The
few spoonfuls of the liquid that he
allowed himself each day were so rich
in bacteria that he was comparatively well
nourished when we found him.
* * * *
“N.”: Those 1917 flood thistles (B.
23/6/’43) are still there on these S.A.
reaches of the Murray, but they attained
a mean height of 18ft., and in many
places the white-ants have been baffled
by their stems. They provide excellent
shelter for such feed as clover, as Whitey
Jones found out back in ’33. Whitey
bought a place that consisted mostly of
1000 acres of the old dead thistle stems,
and all the locals laughed aloud, espe-
cially as it was known that Whitey had
no cash backing for development work.
However, when he took the place over
Whitey discovered in the winding tunnels
of the old forest about 500 head of cattle,
the descendants of a couple of milkers
which must’ve strayed in one time. Of
course the locals continued to cackle be-
cause no man on God’s earth could take
a horse through the tangle. But Whitey
was equal to the occasion. Spreading
the yarn that the old stalks were full of
witchetty grubs, he persuaded a bunch of
boongs to work for him, trained ’em to
throw and brand cattle and went in after
the scrubbers on foot. With the niggers
sneaking about on bare feet it was simple
enough to get a rope on a beast, and with
a turn round a thistle stem throw and
brand it. When every beast in the place
was branded the boongs soon cleaned up
the thickest of the thistles looking for
grubs, and then, the cattle being too fat
to gallop, Whitey mustered and trucked
the lot. They tell me he owns a munition
factory npw.
“Botano”: Nature designed the thistle
so that it should appear immediately a
clearing was made (B. 16/6/”43); she
gave the seed a perfect parachute. This,
of course, she designed for use in Scot-
land, a land of sparse sunshine and with
much more wet than dry. There the
thistle seeds and blows with difficulty,
and its aerial passage after a short dis-
tance is invariably ended by the damp-
ness of the atmosphere, dew or rain.
Transported to Australia, the thistle
found a land of sunshine and light, dry
winds which would carry the clump of
dry seeds up to 100 miles, so that it was
impossible that any cleared space should
fail to receive at least one seed—and that
one within a couple of seasons would
provide a thousand plants.
* * # »
“H.H.”; Green timber doesn’t fall
only in gales (B. 23/6/’43). While
boundary-riding on Koijak, Apsley
(Vic.), one still noon, I noticed a mob of
merinos, camped under a huge swamp
redgum, suddenly stampede. Sub.-clover-
fed, those woollies were usually as quiet
as housedogs, but nearly a minute later
the reason came when tons of gum-
bough fell where the mob had evacuated.
Perhaps sheep have exceptional hearing
for stresses or a sixth sense.
# m
“Horseless Horseman”: Don’t know
about white bullocks being notoriously
vicious (B. 23/6/’43), but they are the
most intelligent, and, for that reason,
are usually chosen as leaders in teams.
As workers, however, the “snows” and
“whites” have one fault —their pink hides
chafe too easily.
* * * *
“Plane Creek”; Jim was proud of his
marksmanship, so when he saw a hawk
circling above at a great height he pointed
his rifle skyward and fired. Down
dropped the hawk. “There, I told you
I could shoot!” boasted Jim. “What do
you mean —shoot?” replied his mate.
“Why, a fall like that would kill any
bird! ”
* * * *
“Lower Tops’!”: Goats fall into
exactly the same traps as other stock,
only less so (B. 2/6/’43), being not even
always surefooted. On the ocean beach
at San Remo (Vic.) years ago I’ve seen
washed up the half-grown carcasses of
Angoras that had missed their footing on
the precipitous, granite-faced cliffs of
Cape Wollamai, opposite.
H! S: * *
“Sdu’-west”: I often ponder on the
intelligence of reputedly stupid creatures
such as fish. Line-fishing at Mandurah
(W.A), we started one afternoon with
only a cut-up crow for bait and caught a
trumpeter. With a bait of trumpeter we
caught a whiting, and were set, fin-
ishing the day with over 200 whiting
in the bag. That was typical; whiting
asked for no other bait than their own
flesh. Then the building of a motor road
brought hundreds of visiting anglers. To
get a quick start many of these brought
prawns. That settled it; with daintier
fare offering the whiting scorned their
previous diet. Today one may dangle a
whiting bait for hours without getting a
nibble, while the chap alongside, fishing
with prawn, will fill his bag. Yet only
a mile out to sea whiting still bite
avidly at their own flesh. With every
run of the tide schools of such sea whit-
ing pour into the estuary, and one natu-
rally expects that as newcomers they
should still bite at their own flesh. But,
no; once inside they seem to get the
word that prawn is to be had, and never
a whiting bait will they take.
* * * *
“Old-timer”; The church service had
just got going when Curyo Charlie slipped
in the door and hurriedly took a seat.
The parson sent him a gratified smile,
feeling that a brand was about to be
snatched from the burning, for Curyo
lived in that town by providing its citi-
zens with the vain excitement of trying
to win money from him at such pastimes
as Yankee sweat, s.p. punting and head-
ing ’em. A trifle uplifted by Curyo’s
presence the parson preached a pretty
good sermon, and, his eyes sweeping the
congregation, he noted that Curyo was
obviously interested mightily. Came the
final hymn and the parson went to the
door to farewell his flock. Last of all
came Curyo, and him the parson shook
warmly by the hand. “Glad to see you,’
glad to see you,” he said. “Cripes,”
said Curyo, “y’ did me a good turn,
mister. Had a good school goin’ when
one of me cockatoos passed the tip that
the new boss cocky of the Johns was set
f’r a raid. I got clear, but he hot-footed
after me, an’ I was breakin’ evens when
I spotted y’r door open an’ shot in.
Thanks, mate, an’ here’s a quid f’r your
plate. I only put a deener in when it
come round.” And shoving a frogskin
in the astounded reverend’s hand the
still-burning brand headed back to the
flames.
“Whymoul”: “Beefo” (B.
14/7/’43) must have had a bad
dream or something to suggest
that blue heelers wouldn’t be
welcome on a cattle station be-
cause they make the cattle
wild. He displays his ignor-
ance by stating that “on sta-
tions where dogs are or have
been it’s only necessary to imi-
tate a dog’s bark” to stampede
the cattle. Doesn’t “Beefo”
know that the prime virtue of
the blue heeler is its silence?
It never barks when working
stock, its method being to trot
behind and nip in now and
then and nip the heel of a
laggard which, feeling the nip
and hearing nothing, promptly
picks up its step.
* * *
“Mat’s Mate”: Mat, broke
in the Wimmera, took a job
with a travelling circus as
handyman. After about a
week he noticed that his ser-
vices were much in demand
by “Celandrina, the Queen of the
Serpents,” a buxom lady of uncertain
age who entertained the citizenry with
some half-dozen slightly torpid rep-
tiles of varying size, mostly large. It
wasn’t long before Celandrina had Mat
fitted out with a uniform and had him
standing silent and stern and handsome
beside her on the platform while she
juggled the serpents. Mat stood it, since
he got a ten-bob rise and the circus drew
steadily nearer a district in which I was
circulating and waiting for him. One
night he’d retired to bunk when Cel.
came coyly into his tent, sat on his bed
and began to talk of the loneliness of
her life. Mat went out the other side of
that bunk and under the tent-flap,
whence he addressed the lady. “Look,
miss, I never thought of hitchin’ up with
anybody an’ I ain’t thinkin’ of it now.”
The lady departed. So did Mat, as soon
as he could get his pay. “Aw,” said the
boss, sorry to lose him, “Cellie won’t
hurt y’. She makes up t’ every passable-
lookin’ bloke.” Mat shook his head.
“I don’t trust wimmen,” he said. “Not
even the well-brought-up kind. Gripes,
a man’d be takin’ a hell of a risk with
her. S’pose she sooled them snakes on
t’ a bloke. Not for mine.” The circus
knew him no more.
* * * *
“B-gar”; Prior to the commencement
of a “session” at a Sydney commercial
broadcasting station a letter of apprecia-
tion was read out by the announcer. The
writers, two old .prospectors in the
Northern Territory, finished up with:
“We branded 500 wild horses yesterday.”
I’ve seen 360 calves branded on a camp in
a bit over four hours, the camp’s comple-
ment consisting of about eight whites and
a dozen abos., but the best day’s work I
ever saw marking and branding colts was
52 in a dawn-to-dusk day. I lift my lid
to those two old Territory leg-pullers.
STALLION OF THE HILLS.
The south wind whipped where dry lands were
robed in dusty shrouds
And, out above the highlands in murky rainless
clouds.
Burned low the lightning lires; and on the
boundary
They cut the fencing-wires and left the cattle
free.
Then, with a coat of sable, the good imported
mare
Strayed from her yard and stable and found the
openings there;
No bit or rein to guide her, the big mare
drifted out
And, ranging wide and wider, she left the land
of drought.
When August lit the ranges with hues of green
and gold
That merge as winter changes, her proud bay
colt was foaled;
A kingly colt who followed the jet-black mare
to know
The springs where wild boars wallowed and
hills where red dogs go.
At last the stockmen found them, drinking at
close of day,
And fanlike spread around them: the wild colt
broke away.
No speed they set could wind him; he gained
the blue hill’s crest
While, half a mile behind him, toiled on the
station’s best.
And then through runs of madness, those reck-
less, wind-kissed rides
That fill men’s hearts with gladness, he won
the mountain sides;
And though, of death unheeding, they set the
pace that kills.
The colt of royal breeding ran free among the
hills.
For the great blood that through him passed
on the gift of speed,
They brought the best mares to him that cattle-
land could breed;
And now on camps and courses and on the
boundless runs
Are prized the long-maned horses, the hallmark
of his sons.
No human hand caresses the dark folds of his
mane
I hat hang like raven tresses in beauty’s own
domain.
Lord of a vast battalion, proud in the rain and
sun,
Till death the great bay stallion goes free as
the range he won.
QUEENSLAND,
LEX MCLENNAN.


“Seeing the war news is so great, they might let us sleep-in in the morning.”
ŵ
“Bo”: “Solo” Dick, well lined after
a few months of scrub-cutting, lobbed
into the pub at Bluegrass and expressed
a desire for accommodation. The best
Bung could do was a shared room, which
was acceptable to the easygoing “Solo.”
While he was having a drink before turn-
ing in, the pubkeeper pointed out his
room-mate, a shifty-eyed, villainous-faced
fellow whom any cop would have arrested
on sight. “Solo” retired to the room
shortly afterwards, and a minute or so
later his fellow-guest came in. His
manner and speech proved as unpre-
possessing as his appearance, for to
“Solo’s” polite remarks he merely grunted
in a grating voice. Next morning “Solo”
was up early. When he finished dressing
he walked across to the other bed, un-
ceremoniously hoisted the mattress and
its occupant with it, picked up a hefty
wad of notes, flicked them over reassur-
ingly, let the mattress go back with a
wallop and drawled: “Thanks for mind-
ing it, mate. I thought it’d be safe there.
If I’d have been ticklish I’d have had to
laugh when you ran your hands over me
early this morning before you tried the
mattress and pillow. Well, I won’t de-
prive you of your fun. I’ll do it now.”
And with a roar of laughter “Solo”
pocketed his wad, grabbed his hat and
went down happily to breakfast.
“K.”: Usually it is somebody least
qualifed by experience who beats the
acknowledged experts to it at guessing the
bullock’s weight (B. 14/7/’43); as excep-
tion to that rule I quote the record of
Stan Collins, butcher, of Candelo
(N.S.W.). The agricultural shows at his
home town and at Bega and Cobargo
all take place within a few weeks, all
being in the same district. Stan correctly
estimated the weight of the fat bullock
at each show.
* * * *
'‘Walkabout”: A mule might be out of
place on a cattle-camp, but he’s as good
a mount as any behind sheep. Well
broken in, he can’t be beaten in harness
either for light or heavy work, and, not
requiring the same amount of nutriment
as a horse, he is economical in those times
when artificial feeding is necessary. As
a pack animal the mule has proved him-
self time and again, but perhaps his
greatest asset is that he’ll exist where a
horse will starve. When it comes to
breeding mules the jack-donkey perhaps
might prove a problem, but a proper
fence with a sufficiency of barbwire will
keep him at home. Before the advent of
motor transport a mail-contractor in
s.-w. Queensland never missed arriving
on schedule in the worst of droughts. He
got through country where horses were
dying in scores every day, and the only
tucker his team of “half-caste” horses
got was a couple of handfuls of corn at
midday and what lignum stalks and
other rough stuff they could pick up at
nights when hobbled but. No more
maligned animal ever existed than the
loppy, and the pity is that his worth has
not been recognised in areas where he
would prove his value.
% * * *
“Horseless Horseman”: Mention of
making horseshoe nails- (B. 16/6/’43) re-
calls seeing hand-forged nails—still in cir-
culation on Lower Murray River stations.
Long ago when the pioneers built the
pine-log homesteads there with dray and
axe, a blacksmith fashioned the nails.
Nowadays when building, especially with
round timber, these flat-sided iron spikes,
collected from ruins about the runs, are
invariably used They grip like malice
roots and never wear out.
Jji % sji
“Blime”: Old Charlie drove into
Main-street just as the small circle of
earnest people started their open-air de-
votions, with music. The flaring torches
and the metallic outburst came with
startling suddenness, and the old nag
contributed an enormous snort as he
backed the trap through the glass front
of a china shop. Charlie extricated the
conveyance and, fighting the plunging
brute all over the street, yelled desper-
ately to the cause of the trouble. His
voice was drowned in the high-pitched
notes of an enthusiastic female. Soon
half the town had turned out to investi-
gate the commotion. They crowded in
from the side streets, climbed lamp-posts
and shouted inane and conflicting advice
to Charlie. Then a couple of uniforms
pushed through the mob to find Charles
with both arms clamped round the
animal’s head, addressing the meeting
in a burst of unholy eloquence. The
earnest ones collected a box of small
change from the crowd, and Chas. col-
lected a bill for damages and a charge
of disturbing the peace.
“Little Bill”: “Mit’s” Big Bill (B.
30/ 6/ ’43) must have been a he-man to
juggle that piece of iron, which must have
weighed 84-cwt.; on it 141 b. sledges would
be about as useful as a tack-hammer
would be to drive a 4in. nail. If the
smith scorned the steam-hammer the
strikers certainly would not. Anyway,
I’ve never seen a plough beam 4in. x
6in. I once helped make cranked beams
for six-furrow ploughs made from Sin.
x IJin. These were considered heavy and
required 161 b. hammers to finish them
true to template.
* * * *
“Sur Cingle”: Ever since I’ve known
“Chook” Hill he’s had a habit. When
sitting down yarning and smoking he
sticks every match he lights carefully
upright in the ground, and after an even-
ing round the fire I’ve seen him en-
trenched behind a real palisade of splints.
The most uncomfortable morning
“Chook” ever put in was when the boss
kept him yarning for an hour in the
cement-floored meathouse. But the habit
was harmless until we had anew jackeroo
inflicted on us. Percy noticed “Chock’s”
little game and, never having learned to
keep his mouth shut, commented on it;
from then on the old chap became the
proprietor of a habit. Instead of absently
sticking match-ends into the ground he
began to do so consciously and to arrange
the things in patterns, some with the
white end up, others showing the char-
coal, and he started to have difficulty in
getting enough matches. Then one day
we were out at Deep Well, and at noon
we sat around yarning when “Chock’s”
little kelpie bitch started howling and
biting at her foot. It was a match-end
jammed firmly between the toes, and we
had quite a job to remove it with the
pliers. It’s rather pathetic now to watch
“Chook” light his pipe, raise the dead
match deliberately, remember and drop
his hand sheepishly and then, out of
sight behind his leg, break the stick into
small pieces.
* * * *
“Carbean”: The station manager’s wife
had been harping about anew carpet, so
at last her husband wrote putting the
solid word on the owners. “Go ahead
and get one,” came the reply. “You pay
half and we’ll pay half.” “0.K.,” the
manager answered in acknowledgment,
“but tell me this ; if I leave where do I
take my half from—-do I cut it straight
down or can I just cut a square out of
the middle somewhere?” They paid the
lot.
“Sou’-west”: I’ve read and heard lots
about funerals in the outback ; here's how
they managed it in one Groperland vil-
lage in my youth. First to arrive at the
stricken home was a farmer from across
the river. He had some wide jarrah
planks in his cart —boards for the coffin.
There was no thought of offering him
payment; he expected none. Two other
neighbors got busy. The seasoned jarrah
had the texture of hard cedar and soon
was smooth and polished. A few hours'
work and the coffin was finished —and
William the Norman never had a better.
No hearse was needed ; 12 strong men
offered as pallbearers. It was half a mile
or more to the cemetery and they carried
the bier all the way, six resting and walk-
ing alongside while the others did their
turn. The grave was dug by an old hand
who acted as sexton on the rare occasions
that one was needed. The minister, who
had come 20 miles and had walked be-
hind the coffin with the chief mourners,
donned his surplice and conducted the
service. Then the grave was filled in and
those who had carried wreaths laid them
on top.
* * * *
“Drover”: The dodge we used to
keep a horse from rambling at night was
simple and it never failed. An ordinary
pair of hobbles was used ; with one strap
buckled on the near-side leg the chain
was taken round the other leg and the
second strap buckled to its mate. If a
horse tried to jump, as hobbled horses
often do, the feel of the chain soon made
it change its mind, and, although a horse
could feed around easily enough by tak-
ing short steps, no prad hobbled in this
manner was ever anxious to travel more
than a hundred yards or so. And for a
horse hard fo catch in hobbles this dodge
will make the most cantankerous one
stand.
# % #
“Wang”: Dad came on the new hand
draped over a fence rail and gazing
vacantly into the distance. Leaning along-
side him were a shovel and a crowbar.
“Hi!” bellowed Dad, “what’s your game?
Not a flamin’ tap done since 1 sent y'
here.” “Don't be hard on a bloke,”
wailed the hand ; “I’m new to this soft
of thing.” “New,” scoffed Dad; “1
reckon y’re an old hand at it.” “No, 1
ain’t,” protested the other. Dad’s subtlety
eluding him ; “I ain’t never done any
of this sort of work before.”' “Work!”
cried Dad, clapping his hand to his fore-
head as though deep in thought. “What
work?” Such obtuseness was too much
for the hand. “Don’t go pokin’ borak at
me, you hairy old goat,” he shouted, “or
I’ll pull #’r flamin’ whiskers out by the
roots.” The next instant a human ava-
lanche descended on him. He found him-
self grasped by the back of his coat collar
and the seat of his pants, and propelled
towards the house. Every few yards Dad
gave a jerk at the coat collar that threat-
ened to dislocate the hand’s neck, the
while he rumbled curses. Arrived at the
house, Dad forced him on to a form
by the kitchen door, and, thrusting his
face up close, he said hoarsely “Like f
have a go at ’em now?” The hand gazed
dazedly at the hirsute embellishment a
foot in front of him and murmured in
a bemused tone “I’ve read they was dan-
gerous. But anybody’d make the same
mistake.” “What are you talkin’ about?”
barked Dad. “What mistake?” “Think-
in’ you was a real human instead of a
dressed-up goriller,” replied the hand,
and bolted for his quarters.
“Butter to spare now , daddy!”


but civilian requirements of Aus-
tralian-made Radiotrons have not been
neglected. Most widely used types are
available, but if the particular valve you
want is not obtainable, consult your Radio-
tron dealer regarding an alternative type.
RADIOTRON
THE WORLD'S STANDARD RADIO VALVE
AMALGAMATED WIRELESS VALVE CO. PTY. LTD.
Australian, Mercantile, Land & Finance
Company, Limited
(INCORPORATED IN ENGLAND IN 1863)
WOOL, FAT STOCK, STORE AND STUD STOCK,
PRODUCE AND PROPERTY SALESMEN
General Manager for Australia: R. SINCLAIR SMITH.
ADVANCES MADE ON GRAZING PROPERTIES, ON STOCK, AND ON
CONSIGNMENTS OF WOOL, SKINS, HIDES, TALLOW, ETC.
LICENSED AUCTIONEERS, STOCK AND STATION AGENTS.
SYDNEY OFFICE; A. M. MURDOCH, Manager.
ALSO AT MELBOURNE, BRISBANE, NEWCASTLE, WAGGA, HENTY, HAY, MOREE,
TOWNSVILLE, CHARLEVILLE, BUENOS AIRES, LONDON.
GENERAL AGENTS IN NEW SOUTH WALES FOR NORTHERN ASSURANCE CO.. LTD.
CVamkiaS
destroys them quickly and easily.
“IT’S the GAS that KILLS them.”
KILLS WITH A WHIFF
CERTAIN DEATH
TO RABBITS
Pump it in with a “Buzacott” Foot Pump Blower—a machine which
makes rabbit destruction a simple, sure and inexpensive operation.
SAVES MANPOWER
Sk
Obtainable from
all Storekeepers
throughout Australia.
BUZACOTT-WOLSELEY PTY..LTD.,
7-11 MARKET STREET. SYDNEY.
THE MAN ON
THE LAND
"DON'T WORRY. I'M SENDING IT TO
GRAZCOS."
Phenothiazine for Sheep.
“Bungaree”: The possibility of ad-
ministering it in a lick or feed, reported
as successful in U.S.A. (B. 30/6/’43), has
been tried here, but without appreciable
results. Conditions in the U.S. are
different from ours, notably in winter,
when a considerable number of sheep
are regularly handfed. Few sheep, except
studs, are handled to the same extent
here.
Giving phenothiazine in feed is recom-
mended here for horses, cattle and pigs.
It is usually necessary to starve them
beforehand, as the bitter taste of the drug
will dissuade them if they are not very
hungry. Its high cost, however, makes
haphazard administration of phenothia-
zine uneconomic. The only way to en-
sure that each animal gets its full dose is
to give that dose individually. If it is left
to them to get their share from a salt lick
or feed-trough usually the stronger,
healthier sheep that need it least get the
most, while the weak, wormy sheep get
none.
American experimenters claim that a
minute daily quantity of pheno. kept the
sheep worm-free. This is contrary to
results obtained by Gordon (C.5.1.R.) in
this country. Carefully-planned experi-
ments revealed that unless a certain mini-
mum dose were given it would not be
effective against black scour worms. Dose
rates in Australia are based on these
findings.
Small doses will give some relief as
they will kill off a proportion of worms,
but the aim of the perfect drench is
100 p.c. results. Experiments are going
on continuously in search of an easier
method than the drenching-funnel or a
drenching-pistol. The thick consistency
of the drench and the fact that the solid
matter in it settles quickly, thus block-
ing the exit from a container, makes it
impossible to use in any ordinary auto-
matic drenching-gun. When this disad-
vantage has been overcome.it will add
considerably to the popularity of the
most successful dreqeh for all worms
found in sheep.
Milk Without Cropping.
“Kiwi”: Run out when he took it over
three years ago, W. S. Long’s 96-acre
farm at Levin, Maoriland, is now return-
ing 2301 b. of butterfat per acre. At the
start Long set out to get the soil, medium
loam on sandy clay, back to full produc-
tivity. Sixty acres were sown to peren-
nial rye and white clover ; dressings of
34cwt. of super, per acre for the first
two years. Grass paddocks got 2|cwt.
of super, when sown, and again six
months later.
Twenty-five acres provide ensilage;
this year’s harvest of 120 tons, together
with 80 tons carryover, is a year’s sur-
plus. Long believes that silage beats hay
for winter milk production. He uses hay
only when drying cows off.
Pastures are built on a plan. Twelve
acres of grassland are closed off in
January, 27 in March and 10 in April.
In March the milkers begin on the
January grass, and that, together with the
balance of the farm, carries them through
to mid-June. The March reserve of 27
acres, plus silage and 1| acres of chou-
moellier as supplements, provides ade-
quate feed to early September, when the
10 acres closed in April are opened up.
Long’s farm is divided into 13 pad-
docks, with additional bull and calf en-
closures. Grass in each paddock is
“Cut the cackle, mister. The The 'lgh Court's declared that regulation
crook.”
rationed to the cows according to feed
available by means of a temporary
electric fence.
Though some bloat occurs in spring,
Long’s contention is that cows that are
kept full don’t gorge. To avoid mastitis,
which mostly sets in when cows come on
to lush feed after hard wintering, Long
transfers all dry stock to a near-by
property for the winter. There the rank,
dry feed makes a good change of diet.
Autumn calvers are spelled on this side-
farm from mid-February to calving time
in April.
Approximately 60 p.c. of the top-
dressing is done in late November to
ensure pastures for dry months; the
balance in late March for winter feed.
Washings from pigpens and cowyards
make liquid manure. Some 300 gallons
per day are drained into a 400 gal, tank
fixed on to an old chassis. With the tap
turned on the liquid is distributed over
the paddocks within 10 minutes. Same
paddocks provide grazing within 10 to
14 days of the application.
Pruning, Planting, Spraying.
“P. Ater”: By the end of July pruning
of fruit-trees should be complete. In
coastal areas where early stone fruits
burst into blossom shortly there will be
need for spraying against fungus diseases
—particularly curly leaf on peaches—with
Bordeaux mixture. August is the last
month for planting out young stock, and
it is a good time for getting citrus year-
lings into the open ground.
Once the early-shaping stages of pome
and stone fruits have been completed, the
idea behind all subsequent pruning opera-
tions must be to maintain the “open vase”
shape of main limbs, to keep the fruit
spurs shortened and evenly spaced and
to choose and shorten the “leaders” of
each branch judiciously each year.
Peaches and apricots must be encour-
aged to make new fruiting twigs annu-
ally by removing the previous year's fruit
spurs. Shorten the new stuff according
to variety and quality of fruit desired—
usually 4in. to 6in. will do. See that the
fixed “spurs” of apples and pears do not
elongate beyond the requisite 4in. or so
or the basal shoots will go blind.
Help the formation of new spurs as
your trees progress by shortening new
twigs to make them “spur up.” Only
practice and knowledge of the different
apple and pear varieties, plus some expert
advice, can make for efficiency. Plum-
pruning now mainly consists of spur-
building and -shortening, but most of
the long “leaders” are left unpruned.
Modern research has found that this sort
of treatment pays best.
Coastal growers will find it better to
keep to early-maturing fruit varieties
rather than combat fruit-fly. Peaches,
such as Edward VII, Watts, Anzac,
Brigg’s and Duffy’s; plums, Wilson’s
Early, Santa Rosa, Wickson (with Shiro
as pollinator), Evans ; nectarines, Cooza,
Early Rivers and Lee’s Seedling ; apricots,
Early Moorpark and Oullin’s; Carpenter
and Lord Nelson apples will do. Cool-
climate and inland men can choose all
the late favorites, including Jonathan,
Delicious, Rome Beauty, and Granny
Smith apples; Bartlett, Beurre Bose,
Packham and Josephine pears ; English
plums and prunes and Elberta, Black-
burn, Royal George and Hale peaches.
A few nut-trees should be included—
pecans on the coast, almonds inland and
Wilson’s Wonder walnut in cooler areas,
macadamia on warmer coast sections.
Only experts should bother with navel
oranges. Better to grow Jaffa, Joppa or
the Sweet Parramatta on farm or home
lot. Eureka is best all-round lemon.
Grow a few thorny mandarins.
Spray stone fruits with Bordeaux mix-
ture 6-4-40 prior to bud-burst, preferably
whilst blossom buds are swelling. Timing
is important. Lime sulphur (one gallon
to 20 gallons of water or 1-14 of home-
made 1.5.) is also effective. Cover every
part of tree to small twigs, and make sure
of beating the devastating leaf curl before
it starts.
Hints for the Farm.
“Jindivick”: If you handfeed the cows
in the paddock don’t chuck the sheaves
in great heaps—the stock only ruin half
of it by trampling on it, and the bossies
get the best of it to the exclusion of those
which most need it. Spread the hay
evenly and not on the same spots each
day—that tends to cut up the paddock.
If horses are feeding on sheaves, take
care to remove all cut bands or you’ll
have some cases of serious digestive
trouble.
“Myrrhee”: Isolate a scouring calf in
a clean, well-drained, sheltered yard.
Starve for one or two days and give
plenty of cooled boiled water every four
hours. In more serious cases, particularly
older calves, dose with castor oil (loz.
to 3oz. according to size). Follow with
formalin, which acts as an intestinal dis-
infectant and will prevent bloating. Dose
according to size, half to one teaspoon-
ful in half-pint boiled milk. Repeat
daily. If diarrhoea persists use an astrin-
gent such as bismuth subnitrate one
dram, gum arabic one dram in boiled
milk three times daily, or powdered opium
five grains, catechu one dram and pre-
pared chalk loz. in gruel twice daily.
“Sarina”: The small cabbages such as
Sugarloaf, Earliball and St. John’s Day
are ideal for the home garden. They can
be set out 12 inches apart. They’re rapid
growers provided they have plenty of
moisture and a rich soil. Succession,
Early Allhead, All Seasons and Drumhead
are the varieties for the market-gardener.
These “big ’uns” can stand difficult
conditions.
Grow Your Own Vegetables, a useful
book by P. J. Hurley, “Pat Ater” of the
M.O.L. page, is to be published shortly
by Dymocks (Sydney). Hurley knows
his subject from wide practical experi-
ence.
“S.T.S.”: S.A.’s last wheat harvest was
36| million bushels, a record average of
18.18 bushels an acre. It is probably due
to a lot of poor country having been
abandoned. Barley, always a big crop in
S.A., dropped to six million, mainly
through there being no guaranteed price.
“Norther”: The “Queensland Agri-
cultural Journal” is to be republished this
month. It was suspended in December,
1941, because of the war position.
QUESTIONS ANSWERED.
(Transferred from Service Department.)
Is it worth while rugging a house cow in the
Tasmanian climate ?
Yes. Take the rug off in warm weather. In
winter, if the cow is rugged, she will give more
milk and give it longer. Rugging won’t cause
her to lose condition and will not cause skin
irritation unless she is neglected.


Pelmanism
Scientific Training of Mind, Memory and Personality
H.M. Forces
160 admirals and generals and
nearly 100,000 other ranks have
taken the Pelman Course.
Approved by the War Office.
A gratifying feature of our relations
with students is the friendly communi-
cations we receive from time to time
from Pelmanists who completed the
course years ago. An extract from one
such letter is included below.
SOLDIER —24th April, ’42: “It is grati-
fying to realise the difference Pelmanism has
made in my Army life....as evidenced in
many new friendships, for instance.”
TEACHER —22nd May, ’42: “I have taken
a fresh grip on things. I used to dread
Inspections, and stew over them before and
after. lam now looking forward to this
year’s Inspection.”
SOLDIER— I4th May, ’42: “The Course
has improved me wonderfully, especially in
regard to observation and general efficiency.”
CLERK —7th April, ’42: “In an early
lesson you said that there is no magic in
Pelmanism. I can only say, from the peace
of mind and increased efficiency I have enjoyed
since studying Pelmanism, that it takes on
the appearance of magic.”
SOLDIER —17th May, ’42; “My past
training in Pelmanism has stood me in good
stead since joining the A.I.F. There is
ample opportunity here for the application
of the Pelman principles of living.”
MEDICAL STUDENT—9th May, ’42:
“I find myself improved in decisiveness and
concentration, which have combined to vastly
increase my self-confidence.”
AIR FORCE —18th May, ’42: “I took the
Pelman Course in September, ’35. _lt proved
to be an outstandingly-wise decision on my
part....l have improved and increased my
earning capacity in the last six and a half
years....l have enthusiastically recommended
the Pelman Course to hundreds.”
BOOT TRADE—I 2 th May, ’42; “Each
lesson has shown me more grounds for im-
provement and my aims have become clearer.
I applied for the Course to obtain social
ease, but quickly saw the wisdom of your
advice to aim at all-round development.”
SOLDIER —Ist May, ’42: “I undertook
the Pelman Course to overcome a bad
memory, and I am making good progress;
Yesterday I had to learn the Morse Code,
and I made astonishing progress. To-day
there are only two letters of which I am not
quite certain.”
The Headquarters of the Pelman
Institute are in London.
The Institute has been established in
Melbourne under the same direction for
over 34 years, and has enrolled more than
50,000 of the half-million Pelmanists.
The staff of the Pelman Institute is fully awaie of the present need
for intensification of effort, and it sets out with each pupil to get
as quickly as possible to the core and substance of his individual
requirements.
On “being wanted”
The first source of moral strength is a certainty of being wanted,
of being acceptable to at least one group of people. A second source
is the conviction that, if we wish, we can make ourselves of use to
other groups and acceptable to them. The enlargement of the number
of groups and the intensification of our influence in any one of them
are determined by the degree of development of certain qualities, viz:
Perceptive Faculty Concentration Self-Control Judgment
Self-Confidence Organisation Will-Power Initiative
and a good memory for faces, figures, names, appointments, prices
and useful data of every kind.
Pelmanism trains these qualities, not with the object of making
the individual like anyone else, but so that he, as an individual, will
be as strong as it is possible for him to be. The Pelman Training sets
out seriously to do this so that the man will be himself at his best, able
to make a good performance of anything he undertakes.
More is said about this and other interesting aspects of
personality in “The Efficient Mind,” 76 pages, sent post
free. Inquiries are confidential. We have no outside
representatives.
The Pelman Institute
3 Gloucester House, 396 Flinders Lane
(Cr. Market St.), Melbourne.
Telephone: MU2355. Telephone or personal calls are welcomed.
Those who do not wish to cut The Bulletin are advised that “The Pelman Institute,
Melbourne,” is sufficient address.
New Zealand Inquirers.
The Pelman Institute, with
the approval of the Reserve
Bank, has made arrangements to
meet the financial restrictions
and enable residents of New
Zealand to enrol for the Pelman
Course of Training without
delay. Write in the first instance
to the Pelman Institute, Mel-
bourne.
To the Pelman Institute, 3 Gloucester House,
396 Flinders Lane, Melbourne.
Please send me, post-free, a copy of “THE EFFICIENT
MIND.”
Name
A ddress 1
157
UNCABLED ADDITIONS
Framing the Charter.
(From a Manchester “Guardian” article.)
In the framing of the Atlantic Charter
(according to the account of it written
by Forrest Davis and Ernest K. Lindiey)
both sides had their drafts at the New-
loundland meeting, and Mr. Sumner
Welles and Sir Alexander Cadogan got
down to the process of reconciling them.
When the principals went through the
result the President was reading the pre-
amble, which spoke of the document as
a joint declaration of “the President of
the United States of America and the
Prime Minister, Mr. Churchill, represent-
ing his Majesty’s Government in the
United Kingdom, [who] deem it right....”
Here the Prime Minister interrupted:
“Shouldn’t we say ‘being met together,
deem it right’?” And so it was written,
a characteristic, stylistic touch. All went
well, say the authors; until the fourth
article.
The first “.... their countries seek no
aggrandisement, territorial or otherwise”
—passed without comment. The second
embodied Churchill’s phraseology: “....
they desire to see no territorial changes
that do not accord with the freely-ex-
pressed wishes of the people concerned.”
The third round was Roosevelt’s:
“... .They respect the right of all peoples
to choose the form of government under
which they will live ; and they wish to see
sovereign rights and self-government re-
stored to those who have been forcibly
deprived of them.”
As drawn by the President, the fourth
article, dealing with equal economic
opportunity and access to raw materials,
had been controversial from the start,
arousing a lively debate on the first day.
Churchill lacked the President’s freedom
in the premises. His Government was
committed to Empire preference under
the Ottawa conventions; he had no
authority to undo that commitment.
A bit unwillingly, the President was
obliged to take a compromise. The com-
promise, as is apparent, lay in the “exist-
ing obligations” clause.
That hurdle passed, the going was
smoother. Number five represented a
blending of American and British phrase-
ology. The sixth article followed Roose-
velt’s language; “.... after the final de-
struction of the Nazi tyranny, they hope
to see established a peace which will
afford to all nations the means of dwell-
ing in safety within their own boundaries,
and which will afford assurance that all
the men in all the lands may live out their
lives in freedom from fear and want.”
The phrase “all the men in all the lands ’
came from Churchill. The sixth article
comprehended, without enumerating, the
Four Freedoms. Numbers seven and
eight closely followed the United States
draft.
Co-operating with Russia.
(From an “American Mercury” article by
Eugene Lyons.)
There has been a taboo on candid dis-
cussion of Russia’s role in war and peace.
Comment has had to start with the infan-
tile premise that contradictions, if any,
between the U.S.S.R. and the rest of the
United Nations are of the variety easily
dissolved in the milk of Allied kindness.
Few have dared speak out as uninhibit-
edly on past and prospective Soviet poli-
tical intentions as Pearl Buck, Wendell
Willkie, Harold Laski and hundreds of
others have spoken out on British inten-
tions. This special attitude towards their
country has hardly been flattering to the
Russians.
But events are breaking down that
taboo. The magnificent Russian winter
offensive forced the problem of Soviet
territorial plans into the open.
The bloody struggle between pro- and
anti-Soviet elements in Yugoslavia ; the
promotion of pan-Slavic congresses under
Communist auspices in England, the
United States, Latin America and Russia
itself; the intensified Communist infil-
tration of French, Italian and other exile
groupings—these are only a few of the
factors which make the hush-hush policy
on Russia ludicrous and impossible.
Open consideration of Russian affairs
is consequently growing, in volume and
in frankness. A semi-official attempt
was made to squelch or play down the
story of the execution of two veteran
European democrats and anti-Fascists,
Henryk Ehrlich and Victor Alter, who
were killed despite the intercession of
Mr. Willkie, Mrs. Roosevelt, the heads
of the A.F.L. and C. 1.0. and hundreds
of other Americans and Britishers. It is
symptomatic of the new candor in this
area of international relations that the
story would not stay suppressed and is
being widely discussed. The outburst
of Ambassador Standley in Moscow
(which may have been less impulsive
than it seems) has drawn the veil from
some of the sources of Russo-American
friction.
A specious argument might be put up
for a moratorium on free speech gener-
ally ; no such argument can be advanced
for imposing a moratorium on open dis-
cussion of Russia only.
No one in his senses denies that agree-
ment between the Soviet Union and the
Anglo-American bloc is indispensable to
total victory and to the maintenance of
a peaceable equilibrium of some kind
thereafter. The U.S.S.R. bulks too large
in the world to be ignored, snubbed or
wished away. None of our blueprints for
the post-war world has any relevance to
actuality if it avoids or postpones con-
sideration of Russia’s military, geographi-
cal and ideological weight. The alter-
native to collaboration is too frightening
to contemplate. Soberly and seriously
we must face three commonsense propo-
sitions :
1. That the U.S.S.R., whether alone or
in co-operation with the Anglo-Saxon
nations, will have a major role in shaping
the post-war world.
2. That Russia’s domestic regime, as a
system of life and government, is obnoxious
to all but a few Americans and Britishers.
3. That we must find some basis for
living in the same world with Russia not-
withstanding, to avoid another and more
terrible war.
This is the inescapable reality. The
need for an understanding with Russia
before it is too late is so urgent that
some of our leaders feel justified in re-
sorting to desperate propaganda devices.
If it is necessary to paint Russia in the
colors of democracy, to flattep its dic-
tator, to minimise our own contributions
to the overall war effort, to placate our
domestic Communists, they feel that the
price is not too high.
But there is no such necessity. On the
contrary, international relations based on
illusions are dangerous if only because
disillusionment is inevitable. Unless we
put an end to official and unofficial lying
about Russia, we are heading for a violent
revulsion of public sentiment on. the
entire problem of world-wide post-war
collaboration. And the fault will not be
Russia’s but our own: Russia has neither
demanded nor encouraged naivete on our
part; if anything it has given us a con-
sistent example of unsentimental, prac-
tical attitudes in its own behavior.
1 submit that we shall be closer to
achieving an understanding with Russia
if we argue that we must find ways and
means of co-operation despite the fact
that Russia is remarkably like it has been
painted. After all, the Russians are no
more overjoyed at the prospect of colla-
boration with “decadent plutocracies
than we are at the prospect of collabora-
tion with a one-party dictatorship.
Mediterranean Control
(London “Nineteenth Century” editorial .)
Security of all Europe depends not on
the international control of the Mediter-
ranean —a control that can only last as
long as there is concord amongst those
that are party to it (and there can be
no guarantee that this will indeed be
long), but on British control. The com-
mand of the Mediterranean must become
a British peace aim as well as a war aim.
Any deviation from this aim will revive
the Italian and, therefore, the German
danger. It will promote immediate in-
security in the Balkans, and, as a conse-
quence, in Central Europe —and so revive
the German danger in yet another, and
very intractable, form.
The command of the Mediterranean
by Great Britain means security to
Russia, and not only because it ensures
effective Anglo-Russian co-operation in
war. If that command is relaxed, Russia
will be compelled to establish her own
system of security and to extend a tute-
lage over the Balkans and the States along
her western borders. Such a tutelage,
even if officially termed a “sphere of
influence,” would, in practice, amount to
annexation. Nor would it be confined
to Europe. It would —if Great Britain
ceased to exercise the command of the
Mediterranean —be extended to Turkey
and to Iran, with consequences affecting
the whole of the Near and Middle East.
There would be a growing divergence be-
tween British and Russian policy that
might lead to an irreparable rupture,
and the ultimate gainer would be neither
Great Britain nor Russia, but Germany
• —and perhaps Japan.
Greatest “Secret Weapon.”
( Condensed from an article by Donald Wilhelm
in “Collier’s,” U.S.)
Back in 1935, in a lane near Daventry
early one cold March morning, stood
parked a battered old truck. In the sky
an R.A.F. ’plane kept appearing and dis-
appearing. In the truck were two young
women laboratory assistants who could
keep a secret and a 43-year-old Scot
named Robert Alexander (now Sir
Robert) Watson-Watt, a descendant of
the Watt who revolutionised industry with
the invention of the steam engine. Several
other physicists and technicians were
present. All leaned over, tensely watch-
ing crude, hastily-improvised electrical in-
struments. Then, the test over, they
straightened up and excitedly discussed
the marvel they had witnessed: their in-
struments, crude as they were, could
detect the approach of the distant ’plane
and, like a moving finger, follow it wher-
ever it flew.
This was the birth in Britain of radar
—the greatest “secret weapon” of the
war.
Though radar apparatus is so intricate
that it can be operated only by experts,
the principle on which it works is as
simple as an echo.
As now developed, radar continuously
sends out short radio waves that travel
with the speed of light, filling the air with
them for miles up and all around. But,
unlike light waves, radar waves are un-
affected by fog, smoke, rain or snow. Like
light waves, they cannot penetrate water.
When these -radar waves strike a ship
or ’plane they “bounce” —are reflected
back —and are picked up by receiving
apparatus. Radar location stations in-
stantaneously flash their findings to a
plotting room. Here each ’plane or group
in the area is detected, located and


® in the
• v X
V.
m
\
mm.
Since the fateful day when Australia “threw her hat
into the ring”, the resources of this fertile land have been forged
into one mighty machine of war. The texture of national life
has been re - woven into a grimmer pattern designed for war.
In this, as in all great undertakings, the motive power that
drives Australia’s war effort is money your money and ours.
A million and a half pounds a day must be found and we must
find it. As a free man, fighting with all you have in the cause
of national liberty and pride, buy National Savings Bonds and
War Savings Certificates, and buy them to-day !
This advertisement is inserted by the
Breks Trousers
i?J
proprietors of Top Dog Men’s MV ear
Sovereign Hats
Divorce Notice.
IN
THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES— In Divorce.
TO PETER ROBERT FRANK late of Sydney.
—TAKE NOTICE that DOROTHY EUNICE
FRANK has filed a Petition for Divorce No-
"M69 of 1942 on the grounds of desertion witn-
out just cause or excuse for three years and
.inwards If you wish to defend you may enter
an appearance at the Divorce Office Supreme
Court King Street Sydney by the. 2nd Sept
1943 and obtain a copy ot the petition without
charge from C. P WHITE Solicitor 160 Ca*
reagh Street Sydney —(r.s.) C. K. BODY.
Registrar.
tracked, with altitude, speed and course.
These data are entered on a huge plotting
board. Officers can instantly advise their
gunners or send up fighter pilots to posi-
tions where they can intercept the enemy
long before he arrives over the target.
Within the range of radar, no ship or
’plane above water and under heaven can
escape detection. And when the radar
waves “report” one, they provide data by
which, instantly, guns and searchlights
can be accurately aimed, though the tar-
gets may be above clouds and invisible.
By obviating the need of air patrols,
what radar has saved in ’plane wear and
tear, petrol, oil and general maintenance
is beyond calculation.
With radar to help, men on a warship
can “see” many miles, day or night, re-
gardless of weather conditions ; they can
“see” an enemy vessel and, with uncanny
precision, send ’planes or fire a salvo at
it —this, perhaps, without anyone on
board the target vessel ever hearing gun-
fire or knowing where the projectiles or
’planes came from.
When Luftwaffe ’planes returned to
attack London in force on Sunday night,
January 17 of this year, in reprisal for
R.A.F. raids on Berlin, they took a dis-
astrous beating. Co-ordinated with
searchlights and radio locators, new anti-
aircraft guns no longer sought to saturate
the skies with shells, but fired to kill. „
First beaten by it over England, Hitler,
with Italy and Japan, unfortunately now
has and is widely using radkr. A race
fof supremacy is under way.
Dragnet Digest.
(Condensed from various acknowledged sources .)
“The U.S. airplane production programme for
both Army and Navy looks to a total of
185,000 useful ’planes by December. We are
going to fall somewhat short of that objec-
tive. It will not be wholly realised before the
end of June, 1944 —six months’ delay.” — U.S.
Navy committeeman H. Sheppard.
* * * *
The forgers of public opinion in London
and Washington, who first censored the
[Russian-Polish] dispute altogether and then
tried to sell the notion that it was only a fig-
ment of Doctor Goebbels’s imagination, have
done a poor service to international realism.
Nor did they add to their stature as fair-minded
citizens by handing the exiled Poles a lacing
for being kicked out of Moscow. After all,
it was the Russians who did the “suspending”
of relations. The Poles had merely complained
and asked the International Red Cross to in-
vestigate.—“ Saturday Evening Post.”
* * * *
As soon as General Eisenhower’s arrange-
ment with Darlan became known in America
there was outcry, chiefly from liberals and
radicals. Military decisions should be left to
military men. When a military high command
or a military leader in the field has made a
decision for a military purpose, for the purpose
of bringing the war to an end in the shortest
possible time with the least loss of life —when
such a decision has been made by a military
commander, he should be free from criticism
from those who may deplore the decision on
grounds of ideology. This lesson is more impor-
tant to remember because, when, as we invade
Europe, scores of situations will arise similar
to the Eisenhower-Darlan one in North Africa.
— N.Y. “Herald Tribune.”
s}t * * *
The world has been given an example of
what can happen to a nation which finds itself
unable to change its top leader in war-time.
Hitler, supreme dictator of Germany, has in-
sisted on acting as Commander-in-Chief of the
German fighting forces since this war began.
He started off with a world-shaking bang, and
looked for a while like the greatest conqueror
since Alexander the Great. Then he began to
make mistakes. The mistake which military
analysts are now saying lost him the war was
his failure to press on into England after the
fall of France. Hitler might have lost 100,000
men by such an invasion, but he would almost
certainly have conquered England, since Eng-
land after Dunkirk was practically weaponless
except for a few R.A.F. ’planes. With Eng-
land conquered, Hitler probably could have
had' peace for as long as he wished peace—
ample time to plot and prepare further con-
quests. His second great mistake is now seen
to have been his attack on Russia, June 22,
1941. A lesser mistake, but one which has
come home to roost, was his effort to scoop
North Africa into his bag by a second-rate side-
campaign. Had Hitler been subject to change
on showing of incompetence, as were and are
all the other German military and naval chiefs,
he would have been shifted out of command
long ago, and Germany would probably be
much better off today. Because Hitler is dic-
tator of Germany and thus far keeps an iron
grip on that job, Germany is headed for defeat,
and after that defeat will most likely spend
years if not decades in the same kind of servi-
tude it has imposed on the countries it now
holds.— N.Y. “Daily News.”
* * * *
There are grounds for crediting reports from
Sweden that, while many Germans, particularly
the industrialists and regular army leaders, know
that Germany is already beaten, the Nazi chiefs
either do not or will not believe that they can
be defeated. But even if he does read the hand-
writing on the wall, it is not to be supposed
that a cornered fanatic like Hitler will be
stopped by any considerations of reason or
humanity, even for his own people, from carry-
ing on the slaughter to its inevitable end. —
N.Y. “Times.”
& # $ a£
Relations between the Soviet Union and
Poland were close to the breaking-point long
before the Nazis put out the story about the
10,000 Polish officers who were found in mass
graves not far from Smolensk. That bit of
Nazi propaganda broke the dam that had held
back the torrent of mutual distrust, but
observers had felt for some time that a break
was bound to come. Basically, the difference
of opinion is a boundary dispute. Moscow
is determined that after the war the territory
that it calls the western Ukraine and western
White Russia shall be part of the Soviet Union.
It argues that the population is not Polish but
largely composed of Ukrainians, White Rus-
sians, Lithuanians and Jews. The Polish
National Council, on the other hand, wants the
frontier as it existed until 1939; in other words,
the line as it was fixed by the Treaty of Riga,
signed in 1921 by Poland and the Soviet Union
and approved two years later by the Confer-
ence of Ambassadors. The dispute is deep-
rooted, and I do not believe it ever will be
settled to the satisfaction of both Governments.
—Former N.Y. “Herald Tribune” Moscow
correspondent Walter Kerr.
* * * *
“Complete and unfailing help” from the
nationals of the occupied countries in Europe
has been encountered by British raiding parties
on any landings or operations undertaken on
the Continent, according to Hilary St. George
Saunders, official British recorder on the staff
of Lord Louis Mountbatten’s Combined Opera-
tions command. “As far as 1 can see, any
Quislings left must have moved very far inland.
Our men have found only instant friendship
everywhere,” said Mr. Saunders. — N.Y. “Times.”
* * * *
In known dead the United Kingdom, with a
total of 73,477, has lost far more in proportion
to white population than has the rest of the
Empire. The reasons are largely strategic, but
they do afford comment on the Axis-inspired
canard that Britain has been letting the colonies
and Dominions fight her battles. — N.Y. “Times.”
* * * #
”1 said late in 1942 that, despite battle losses,
the United States then had a stronger fleet than
before Pearl Harbor. Starting with this stronger
fleet, the Navy in 1943 will complete more new
fighting ships—and by that I mean combatant
vessels, exclusive of auxiliaries, mine, patrol
and landing craft —than there were fighting
ships in service at the end of 1942. The number
of warships in the U.S. fighting fleet will more
than double in a single year. The tonnage of
new warships completed in 1943 will equal
two-thirds of our total tonnage of combatant
ships in 1942. In short, the tonnage of the
fighting fleet will increase by 66 per cent, this
year, without allowances for probable battle
losses. Our effort this year will be marked
by two special accomplishments upon which
we have bent every energy and all our will-
airplane carriers and destroyer escorts. The
early phases of the Pacific war and the carrier
losses we sustained and inflicted made it plain
that success would be influenced greatly by
carrier strength. The number of carriers, both
large and auxiliary, completed in 1943 will
multiply many times our total carrier force at
the end of 1942. As for destroyer escorts de-
signed for submarine warfare, the number to
be completed in 1943 will be greater than the
total number of all destroyers in service on
Dec. 31, 1942.” — U.S. Navy Secretary Knox.
SK * * *
Famine and starvation were responsible,
from 1917 to 1925, for the death of millions,
and may be considered as one of the main con-
tributory causes of the present world struggle.
The suffering endured fostered a spirit of bitter-
ness and hatred which was bound to provoke
either a revolutionary upheaval inside the
nations affected or a wave of nationalistic
fanaticism leading to international conflict. If
we take this fact into consideration we realise
that the preservation of peace in the future de-
pends more on the success or failure of the
United Nations in coping with the problem of
food relief than on any other effort they may
make in order to prevent a third world war and
the final destruction of European civilisation.
Neither the occupation of Germany nor the
adoption of the wisest system of economic
and military co-operation between nations will
have any lasting effect if famine is once more
allowed to devastate Europe or to disintegrate
its physical and moral resistance. — Emile Cam-
maerts; London “Contemporary Review.”
* $ * *
Venereal infection among United States
troops in London is at least 25 per cent, higher
than at home. In the first four months of this
year 2060 soldiers have been temporarily out of
action because of it, not counting those who
took their problem to civilian doctors. One-
third to one-half of all infections contracted by
American troops in the European theatre ol
operations have been directly traced to the
Piccadilly area of London.— N.Y. “Times.”
* * * *
Those who remember the air race from Eng-
land to Australia in 1934 know how the Mos-
quito got its start. Winner was the De Havilland
Comet. Only two of this type were built, but
they served as a model for the Mosquito now
dodging fighters and anti-aircraft over Ger-
many. It has a top speed of 400 m.p.h., and
no fighter can overtake it. It dodges into a
specific target, such as a railroad yard, drops
its load with deadly aim, dodges out.— N.Y.
“Daily Mirror.”
* * * *
“Premier Tojo himself at a reception gave
me a warmer greeting than he gave to any other
diplomat. And why not? The Argentine has
been the eyes and ears of Japan in the Western
Hemisphere.” — Raymon Muniz Lavalle, Argen-
tina’s Vice-Consul to Japan when Tokyo was
bombed.
* * * *
China has been at war with Japan for a dozen
years and is now in the perilous condition of
war-weariness, poverty, hunger and the loss of
her principal sources of - public and private
revenue. China needs immediate relief—a
second front; major warfare in the Pacific.—
George E. Sokolsky; N.Y. Sun.
* * * *
Tunisia repeatedly emphasised the value of
well-trained infantry. The early Allied scarcity
of infantry helped to postpone victory. Tunisia
also showed the importance of massed artillery
fire under centralised control for meeting tank
attacks or for softening up objectives. 1M
Allied superiority in artillery aided materially
in the final victory— N.Y. “Times” war corre-
spondent.


■
mm
i
BOMBER SQUADRON
READY ON THE LINE!
The guns are loaded, the bombs in the
racks and the sleek and deadly giants, grim
in their war-paint, stand in wide-spaced
ranks before the hangars.
But before they set out on their mission,
the field must be ready. That vital con-
struction and maintenance job is capably
handled by “Caterpillar” Diesel Tractors
and Waugh & Josephson Earth-Moving
Equipment, typified by the W. & J. No. 12
“Caterpillar” diesel - powered Motor
Grader, which is pictured below.
All new production is going to combat
forces, but hundreds of older civilian
machines are carrying the wartime load
until Victory comes.
■
mmmt
CATERPILLAR D/BSEC
RES. U.S. PAT. OFF.
TRACK-TYPE TRACTORS and WAUGH & JOSEPHSON EARTH • MOVING EQUIPMENT
Distributors for New South Wales and Queensland:
WAUGH & JOSEPHSON PTY. LTD.
Unwin's Bridge Road, St. Peters, Sydney — 'Phone; LA 3321; Marquis Street, Gunnedah — 'Phone:
Gunnedah 326; Service Engineers: Mr. J, A. Rathbone, S 7 Cambridge Street, South Grafton;
Mr. R. Tweedle, Pori Macquarie — 'Phone: Pori Macquarie 81; Mr. D. McDougall, 96 Kincaid
Street, Wagga — 'Phone: 2886; 102 Melbourne Street, South Brisbane — 'Phone: J 1456; Rankin
Street, Innisfail — 'Phone: Innisfail 475 CT7-33-42
J ■
-
10 for 1/1
20 for 2/2
ẁ
ẃ
Save • or Slave. Put
all you've got into £lO
National Savings Bonds.
JO 6 5 B
SERVICE DEPARTMENT.
Information Sought.
Aboriginal names suitable for naming a
farm ?
Alkoomie, “very nice”; Anembo, “a quiet
place”; Elouera, “a pleasant place”; Wah-
roonga, “our home”; Willawa, “stop here.”
(1) Is a private social club liable for taxa-
tion ? (2) My income comprises £235 from
Australian military pay and £175 as pension
from a financial institution. Am I entitled
to any deductions or exemptions from my
income-tax return to June 30, 1942?
(1) Sporting and social clubs must make
income-tax returns and are subject to tax on
income other than receipts from members.
(2) No, as your total income for the year ended
June 30, 1942, exceeded £354. Section 81 ot
the Income Tax Assessment Act, 1936-42, pro-
vides that where the income of a member of
the defence force includes pay or allowances
earned as a member of that force, and the
income exceeds £261, he shall be entitled to a
deduction of £94 less £1 for every £1 by which
the income exceeds £261. The deduction be-
comes nil when the income amounts to £355.
(1) On which arm do Australian n.c.os. wear
their stripes? (2) Do they wear these stripes
in battle?
(1) Right arm only. (2) Yes.
Method of mending small holes in tanks?
Heat kerosene-tin |-full of tar till nearly
boiling, then stir in enough powdered, air-
slaked lime to make a creamy mixture. When
it froths it is ready to apply. Clean the iron of
all rust, rub dry, leave a day, then apply black
cement with big brush. Give two coats. It
gives a surface like black enamel.
Method of tanning fishing or cricket nets?
Cut half a bagful of ironbark into small chips,
half-fill a 44-gallon drum with water, and put
in chips. Boil liquid for an hour to extract
tan, remove chips with a dip-net, submerge
article in the tanning solution and allow liquid
to cool. Leave article in overnight, and dry
next day; but, if new, give another night’s dip
in cold tan. Tanning should be done again
when color of object fades.
Brief Answers.
T.McC.: Tantalite containing not less than
60 p.c. Ta2os would return an Australian pro-
ducer around £B5O per ton; wolfram of stand-
ard quality would return £357 10s. per ton.
... .C.D.: If the blocks you refer to are incom-
plete Crown purchases (tenures under Crown
Lands Acts), forfeiture may be obtained on
written request to the Lands Department, Syd-
ney, provided Crown payments are in arrears.
. ...J.V.R.: Marriage does not affect the posi-
tion. If the document was legally sufficient to
make the brothers joint-tenants of the property,
then on the death of one the survivor takes the
whole... .D.M.; Information on its way....
C.E.L.: Sydney clock specialists were unable to
identify the piece... .F.D.V.: The quatrain
commencing “Though love repine, and reason
chafe” is by Emerson, and appears on page
243 of the new and revised edition of his poems
published in Boston by Houghton, Muffin and
Co., 1898... .R.F.H.: Luminous paint contains
ingredients now unprocurable... .G.A.H.: The
Great Jansen made his first appearance in Aus-
tralia at the Criterion Theatre, Sydney, on March
2, 1912. As Dante he reappeared at the Royal,
Sydney, on March 4, 1933 F.O’M.: (1)
General Alexander was born Dec. 10, 1891 ;
General Montgomery was born Nov. 7 1887.
Alexander commanded a regiment of Irish
Guards from 1928-30. (2) Jolliffe published a
book of his own sketches; price, Is H.L.;
“O scarlet berries sunny-bright!” is from the
poem “Gabrielle,” by Myers... .N.G.; Infor-
mation unobtainable G.1.T.: Raw linseed
oil is a cheap polisher... .G.L.: To oxidise
brass buttons, immerse them in a solution of
2oz. nitrate of iron, 2oz. hyposulphite of soda
and one pint of water. Wash and dry....
U.G.L.: Thanks for the fruit.
Answers to Correspondents
Name and address must appear on the MS. No
liability is undertaken re contributions voluntarily
submitted; and no MS. will be returned unless
stamps accompany. MS. sho-uld be addressed to
the Editor.
The Muse aroused:
The tramguard goes and pulls the cord
When you are halfway in;
You just fall off if you are stout ;
You’re murdered* it you’re thin.
J.R.R.;
Dividends are gleaned for lords in the highest places
By hags and high wigs of salary wc see with
grimaces
Who plan for delaying effort with a strength that
we not understand.
Must we be like the common rude, they of that
simple trust
Who think not things can be awry—and every potent
round us shout
Hold back that strength, new might for blows, that
might hold back we must
Cripple the friend to help the foe for the plus cost
spring- pays out.
.. . .L.B'.C.: It’s a pity the scientists never suc-
ceeded in splitting Professor McAtom... .5.8.;
Don’t try to rhyme “falia” and “Austrailure.”
■• • -I-L.: Merely a geographical note....
D.K.J.: It is astonishing how few good poems
are wr itten about Mr. Ward... .J.G.C. : Try a
woman’s paper... .8.K.5.: “Inspired by scenic
grandeur” is guidebook stuff E.E S. ;
Milton would never forgive you for rewriting
“p ara di se Lost” in 10 lines W.J.N.; If it’s
true, and you saw it, try it in prose... .G.F.N.:
willing, but rough... .E. 8.: Tut....D.8.:
Whether he is a cat or a goldfish, Whiggie’s
jealousy of the lovebird is important only to
Whiggie.. H.H.8.:
G.C.. That champ, who beats the s e
wrestler has whiskers down to the ground and
back to his cars.... D.McD.: “In a Country
Cemetery” was hardly worth disinterring....
H.F.: No bite... .P.G.M.; Nearly... J.H.:
“Sublimation” would need to be far more sub-
lime to creep past the Religious Editor....
D.T.: Sounds dinkum, but that’s its only merit
.... A.L.: Both lightweights J.P.W.: Con-
ventional K.H.: Thin ; and the unconvincing
vernacular makes it thinner....E.J.T.: Thereby
an anecdote W.M.: Needs more character,
J.F.G.: Slight V.G.L.; So very little
happens.. ..DJ.F.: Just a grin.. -L-S.. Sc " b
mental and impossible... -A.H.G.. Jt lea
hadn’t gone it might have been * p st . or l;’; 1
W.C.: Let sleeping dogs he.. ...A.G.P . Those
coincidences are more convincing m We than
in h^ion... .R.H L: 8a1d... .8.V.5.. JNeany.
D J.McL.: Both magazimsh .. -E.A.G..
Try elsewhere... .E.T.; The bookie with the
beautiful soul is hardly of tbls , eart **y. ’1
A.E.H.: That free fight at the bush wedding
has lasted for a century now V.K.. bai-
fetched.


\F ITS A
ynWlt
p R OBIEM
L UO 0 Wl C I S
have the answer
Illustrating
the LUDOWICI
PIVOT DRIVE
BEHIND the fine quality and the assurance of maximum efficiency in
Ludowici Power Transmission Equipment, stand Ludowici Technicians
—men whose knowledge and experience of every power transmission re-
quirement enable them to give a ready answer to your particular problem.
Our reputation has been built on our willingness to give an unbiassed
(-pinion and to recommend and supply the most suitable equipment for
each power transmission application.
You have only to ask for our advice to have it freely given.
J. C. LUDOVICI & SON LTD.
117 YORK STREET, SYDNEY
GEARS & HANGERS
LUDOWICIS
n/i uu r p
TRANSMISSION
EQUIPMENT
Evidence of
INTEGRITY and SECURITY
Essential when appointing your Trustee .
Estate will be secure in his ban Company Limited you can rest assured
When you appoint Perpetual Trustee y p r i ngs to bear the judgment
on both points. In the management Of pdMduals, it has large capital
gained by 60, years’ w f and responsibility.
TurTS.“ .nd Trustee,” wh.ch explain. the Company-.
service.
PERPETUAL TRUSTEE COMPANY,^LIMITED
DIRECTORS: T. H. c! Wl»i W. Deueliar C p “*“ uV el.„, M.n.pw
POW S «t <» Absentees and other..
Administrator, crc. «/*a non 000
Trust and A S eney Funds under Administration exceed £ 60,000,000.
33 39 HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY.
T . n E Cowdery, Gurwood Street, Wagga Wagga.
Southern h a. Shaw. 140 Lord's Place. Orange.
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
Colonial Mutual Life
Ordinary Department.
Ex- Written Added to
Dec., Income. Claims. penses. Old. Funds.
£ £ £ £ £
Profit on sale securities, £62,335 1
From Accident Dept., £60,000 (. 4 494 g 92
1936.. 3.146.251 1,559,795 581,827 4162 [ ’
Superannuation Fund, £lOOO ..J
From Accident Dept., £20,600 1
1937.-3,565,539 1,559,405 573,936 48,371 j- 1,402,827
Superannuation Fund, £lOOO ..J
Unexplained addition res., £8624 1
From Accident Dept., £20,000 f i cnn Qifi
1938.. 652.463 1,413,983 521,285 83,903 f ’ ’
Superannuation Fund, £lOOO ..J
From Accident Dept., £20,000 . . 1
1939.-3,709,186 1,530,963 523,061 79,658 1 1,654,504
Superannuation Fund, £lOOO ..J
From Accident Dept., £20,000..!
1940.. 3.864.411 1,502,362 504,588160,417 L 1 576 044
Superannuation Fund, £lOOO .. f ’ ’
To Contingency Reserve, £140,000 J
From Accident Dept., £20.000..!
1941- 1,636,258 507,526 71,204 [
Superannuation Fund, £5500 .. [ ’ ’
To Contingency Reserve, £1.05,000 J
From Accident Dept., £20,000..]
1942- 1,758,646 533,048 68,282 i 1,913,786
Superannuation Fund, £ 5000 .. J
Industrial Department.
Written
Dec., Income. Claims. Expenses. Off. Funds.*
£ £ £ £ £
1936. .837,036 187,022 230,434 702 1 4 114 651
Superannuation fund, £9OO .. I ’ ’
1937. .916,293 254,552 246,612 1,261 1 4 527 619
Superannuation fund, £9OO .. S ’ ’
Added guarantee fund, £B5O 1
1938. .981,657 351,217 252,852 2,131 } 4,903,026
Superannuation fund, £9OO .. J
Added guarantee fund, £l9B .-1
1939 1,026,215 447,864 263,059 3,762 1 5,213,854
Superannuation fund, £9OO . . J
Added guarantee fund, £BBO .. 1
1940 1,062,516 479,343 276,797 19,710 !■ 5,500,500
Superannuation fund, £9OO .. J
Reduction reserves, £5677 .. 1
1941 1,106,727 527,046 291,428 5,558 j- 5,772,118
Superannuation fund, £5400 ..J
Added guarantee fund, .-!
1942 1,194,013 537,029 320,495 6615 1-6,098,070
Superannuation fund, £5OOO •• J
* Includes contingency funds, etc.
Life offices in Australia have subscribed
over £60,000,000 in loans to the financial
conduct of the present war, apart from
contributions by way of taxation. The
thrift of their thousands of members is
thus a powerful influence countering the
tendency of the heavy use of central-bank
credit to depreciate the currency. Though
the Government itself is striving to
neutralise immediate effects of its
“liberal” financial policy by rationing and
other direct controls, conditions intensi-
fying the problems of the peace are being
created which will require indefinite con-
tinuance of a large measure of economic
restraint. Because of the long-term
nature of their contracts, policy-holders
in life offices have an especial interest in
a stable currency, and thus in the winning
of the economic, as well as the physical,
war.
The old-established Colonial Mutual
reaches outside Australia and Maoriland
to the United Kingdom and South Africa
for its business. Throughout this whole
area, official control of interest rates,
direction of investments, heavier taxation
and increased mortality on war account
have been encountered, but the society
continues to maintain financial health,
particularly as regards economy in the
conduct of its affairs. Provision of large
sums for war contingencies has affected
bonuses, of course, as with all offices.
If not. all required for the purpose set
aside, however, these sums will later be-
come available to supplement present
rates of bonus or, as may prove prudent,
partly applied to reducing the present
3 p.c. valuation basis—in effect, tempor-
arily deferring their release with the
object of stepping up the bonus scale in
subsequent years.
Last year curtailment of field staffs
and deeper encroachment of the tax-
gatherer into middle incomes brought a
cut of £2,137,305 in the writing of new
Ordinary business (£6,937,823) ; the con-
traction in the Industrial department
(£2,256,612) was only £111,622. Still, in-
cluding the healthy Accident branch, in-
come went £309,300 ahead to £5,583,359,
of which interest, etc., contributed
£1,328,691 and £4,254,668 came from
premiums. Of the total, £2,253,330 was
added to policy reserves ; that was after
looking after all admitted claims and
exes., including taxation (£143,164, up
£43,207, apart from land tax), deprecia-
tion £75,313, down £1871) and staff fund
benefits of £10,500. Assurance funds in
the three departments now amount to
£30,926,016, supporting which are contin-
gency and other reserves only £46,028
short of a million —there was unexplained
growth here of £11,401 last year.
As calculated by actuary Drybrough,
surpluses available for bonuses behaved
this way:
1938. 1940. 19'41. 1942.
Ordinary .. £628,630 £836,577 £885,746' £999,009
Industrial .. 146,783 121,758 120,494 122,838
Accident .. 35,848 46,083 46,108 47,789
Total .. £811,261 £1,004,418 £1,052,348 £1,169,636
Comparisons there have been upset by
the carrying forward of large unappro-
priated balances, of which £400,000 in
the O.D. is on account of U.K. policy-
holders, who have missed out since war
began. Other O.D. members this year
receive £333,691 in reversionary addi-
tions to their policies, leaving £265,318
to go forward untagged. The £68,617
distributed among I.D. contracts repre-
sents a one-third cut, the first since the
outbreak of hostilities.
Turning to expenses, reduced new busi-
ness was helpful in pulling back the O.D.
rate from 14.2 p.c. to 13.4 p.c. of the net
premiums, despite extraordinary expen-
diture of A.R.P, and other nature; in
the I.D. the reduction was from 31.9 p.c.
to 31.3 p.c. Such things as taxes and
writings-off have been chipped off in each
computation, and an allowance of 3 p.c.
made as cost of annuities.
The society is now trustee tor
£32,563,513 of solid-looking assets,
mostly held in the form of Government
securities and mortgages protected by life
assurance or Government guarantee;
1941. p.c. 1942. p.c.
Public securities
and debentures. £14,887,014 49.2 £16,704,508 51.5
Mortgages . . 9,505,935 31.4 10,057,578 30.9
Freeholds, etc. . . 2,972,097 9.8 2,943,552 9.0
Loans on policies 1,854,254 0.1 1,794,877 5.5
Premiums and in-
terest outstanding 298,166 1.0 313,415 1.0
Cash and deposits 552,992 1.8 509,489 1.6
Other assets .. 201,753 0.7 180,034 0.5
Gross earning power of that lot put on
a little weight last term, but the net
return on the mean of all funds combined
fell from 4.02 p.c. to 3.85 p.c. Land
tax is now a smarting impost, taking 45
p.c. of net rents as the Jesuit of aggre-
gation of property values in striking rate
of tax.
Gibson and Howes, Ltd. (Q.)
Net To Re- Re-
Dec., Profit. Dividends. serves, serves.f
£ £ £ £
1931.. 24,830 8 p.c. = 22,400 2,430 24,031
Loss.
1932.. 3,559 Nil 20,472
Profit.
1933.. 19,553 6 p.c. = 16,800 2,753 23,225
1934.. 21,462 64 „ „ 18,200 3,262 26,487
1935.. 28,001 74,, ~ 21,000 7,001 33,488
1936.. 30,877 8 „ „ 22,400 8,477 41,963
1937.. 31,140 8 „ „ 22,400 8,740 50,705
1938.. 30,512 84,, „ 23,800 6,712 57,417
1939.. 34,349 94 „ „ 26,600 7,749 65,166
1940.. 31,615 84,, „ 23,800 7,8J5 72,981
1941.. 24,932 84 „ „ 23,800 1,132 74,113
1942.. 26,132 84 „ „ 23,800 2,332 76,445
t Not including depreciation reserve —£208,788 at
31/12/’42.
A splendid showing, all things consid-
ered. Drought, shortage of fertiliser and
man-power difficulties —men have been
temporarily released from the services to
help harvest cane —reduced last season’s
total output of raws for Australia
(627,000 tons) by 94,000 tons. The
highest figure reached was 938,000 tons
in 1939, when over half the output was
exported at a very low figure. The
balance was sold locally at a high price
to ensure a satisfactory average return
to the grower. Only about one-third of
total output is exported now, and that
at a much more satisfactory figure than
the pre-war open-market price, thanks to
Britain’s purchase of Australia’s surplus
raws. The contraction in output has been
brought about by war-time pressure on
shipping space as well as by seasonal and
other conditions. This contraction and
the rise in taxation and costs generally
have bitten into the net earnings of the
trade, despite a better average price per
ton for raws.
Owing to shortage of Government roll-
ing stock, this Bundaberg grower and
miller built about five and a half miles
of 2ft. tramway, which carried a lot of
cane previously hauled over the State
railway. Still, some cane had to be diverted
to another mill because of rail transport
difficulties. The season’s output of raws
from the co.’s own mill was 19,931
tons, or 3069 tons less than the official
mill peak reached for the previous season.
The stuff is expected to average not less
than £lB per ton, as against £l7 18s. 6d.
for the preceding 12 months. After mak-
ing an unspecified allowance for taxa-
tion and setting aside £13,210 (down £392)
for depreciation, the net result was £l2OO
better at 9.3 p.c. on capital, compared
with 8.9, 11.2, 12.2 and 10.9 p.c. back to
1938. The div. was kept at p.c., and
the £2332 that remained lifted the aggre-
gate lay-by, including that for deprecia-
tion, £5233 higher than paid capital
(£280,000).
The new tramway shows up in a
growth of £19,777 in the book value of
fixed assets:
1937. 1940. 1941. 1942.
Paid capital. . £280,000 £280,000 £280,000 £280,000
Liabilities* . . 29,283 51,453 118,978 103,560
Freeholds,
plant etc... 407,877 484,138 492,763 512,540
Stocks.. .. 38,729 42,192 143,879 122,392
G o v e r nment
securities, etc. 15,000 20,000 28,000 40,000
Sundry debtors 29,678 40,707 14,403 4,317
Cash, etc. . . 23,123 11,272 1,624 1,444
* Including provision for taxation.
Mill and irrigation efficiency gives a
healthy tone to balance-sheet figures.
When the books last closed more or less
liquids exceeded outside liabilities, which
include an unspecified allowance for
taxation, by £64,593, down £4235 over
the twelvemonth.
As for the current season, satisfactory
crushings are in sight, and local civilian
demand has been rationed in order to
meet requirements of the Allied services
and to help Britain improve its meagre
sugar ration. A royal commission, set
up by the Queensland Government to
investigate all aspects of the industry,
recommended that the mills in the State
should be operated under Government
control, at a reduced crushing rate. A
central committee has been established
to advise Man-power officials, and local
committees at each mill district will make
arrangements for harvesting. Growers
have asked for a special Federal subsidy
of about £2,000,000 to help cover the
growth in war-costs, and the Prime Min-
ister has replied that a careful survey
would be made in respect of the 1943-44
season.
R. H. Gordon and Co., Ltd, (Sydney)
To Re- Re-
Dec., Profit. Dividends. serves, serves.
£ £ £ £
.1935.. 28,954 15 p.c. = 23,255 1 5 igg 176 is 7
Staff fund,' £5OO .. ..j
Inner reserves capitalised, £37,800.. 176,501
1936. . 32,865 15 p.c. = 28,986 } 0070 179 940
Staff fund, £5OO .. ..j 0,0
Tax reserve, etc., taken in, £20,000. . 199,94 b
1937.. 35,765 171 p.c. = 33,886 } , g 7 g 201,325
Staff fund, £5OO .. •• ) ’
4938. . 34,306 161 p.c. = 31,523 1 o 000 203,608
Staff fund, £5OO .. -.1 ’
1939.. 30,708 15 p.c. = 29,100]
Staff fund, £5OO .. .- \ 203,276
Extra tax prov., £l5OO I
1940.. 31,593 15 p.c. = 29,100 ]
Staff fund, £5OO .. •■ \ 202,269
Extra tax prov., £3OOO .. J
inner reserve struck off shares, £5444.
1941.. 31,075 15 p.c. = 29,100 ]
Staff fund, £5OO .. .. r 200,744
Extra tax prov., £3OOO .. J
1942.. 19,045 10 p.c. = 19,400 200,889
To staff fund, £5OO . . . . 199,889
Few concerns have done as well for
their shareholders as Gordon’s, which
grew up on cash-orders the co.
pioneered this form of consumer-credit.
Later a large furniture and furnishing-
drapery business was developed. From
the beginning (in 1903) to the end of 1930
£222,400 of bonus scrip was scattered,
and for the last 18 years of this period
divs. averaged \l\ p.c. When slump in
the early 1930’s reduced capital require-
ments, £174,833 of the £329,667 of share
capital was handed back, and that was
more than shareholders had subscribed
in cash. For the decade to the end of
1940 those on the register averaged
12.6 p.c., sweetened with a one-for-four
gift issue in 1935.
Since restrictive war-time Government
controls and legislation have hedged in
trade-activity and profit-earning, particu-
larly for those operaling on a credit basis,
the co. is again unable to find full em-
ployment for its capital (£194,000) and
reserves (£199,889) in the business-
only 48.6 p.c. of the reserves is so
employed. Because of this and doubt as
to what the future will hold in the way
of Government restrictions on trade and
profits, the board proposes to return a
quarter (£48,500) of the share capital,
reducing the figure to £145,500, on
which a 10 p.c. div. will call for
£4495 less profit than was claimed
last term. Although shareholders will


INVENTORS.—Have you an idea worth patenting?
Griffith, Hassel and Griffith, Patent Attorneys,
Asbestos House, Cr. York and Barrack Streets, Sydney,
obtain Commonwealth and foreign patents.— Advt.
♦ ♦ ♦ *
DAVIES & COLLISON, Patent Attorneys, Collins
House, 360 Collins Street, Melbourne, C.l. Austra-
lian and overseas Patents anfi Trade Marks.—Advx.
w
Try the new Roussel Rupture Appliance Free.
Enables you to do the hardest work with com-
fort and security. Definitely holds, a condition
absolutely necessary for possible improvement
or recovery. Recommended by Doctors every-
where. Satisfaction guaranteed no matter
where you live. Send for details, self measure-
ment form, testimonials and 14 days’ free trial
offer. No obligation.
THE ROUSSEE APPLIANCE CO.,
(Dept. 37), !) Martin Place, Sydney.
Weak Kidneys
Often Cause
Nagging Backache and Log Pains.
DOAN’S
BACKACHE
KIDNEY PILLS
help the kidneys discharge poisonous
waste from the blood, thus removing
the cause of backache, leg pains, lum-
bago, swollen feet and ankles. Buy a
bottle today.
SOLD BY ALL CHEMISTS
AND STOREKEEPERS.
Foster-McClellan Co.,
Proprietors,
15 Hamilton St., Sydney.
For Australia at War .
Established J 920
Ofe
LATHES . . . CAPSTAN TURRET LATHES
SHAPING, MILLING and PLANING
MACHINES .... BORING MILLS
MACHINE-CUT GEARS for the Trade
MARS MACHINE TOOL Manfg. Go.
Pty. Ltd. Bridge Street, Valley, Brisbane
Did you know this
about your Society
Points from A.M.F. Cliairsstan’s
Speecli
Sir Samuel Hordern, K.8.E.,
Chairman of the Society.
• Your Society paid out
£8,660,000 last year in benefits to
members and their families.
• Your Society’s assets are worth
£141,000,000, and every penny
belongs to the members.
® Your Society embraces the best
part of a million men and women
drawn from all sections of the
community.
® Your Society is the largest
co-operative institution in Aus-
tralia and the largest mutual lift
office in the Empire. Its purpose
is to make life assurance available
to all at the lowest possible cost,
® Thrift is the main cure for
Inflation and thrift is the very
basis of Life Assurance.
®Your Society has had war claims
amounting to £2,000,000, a re-
sponsibility willingly shouldered
by all members. More than
£31,000,000 have been subscribed
to National Loans since the war
began, and the amount increases
with each loan floated. Over
1,600 members of the Society’s
staff are in national services.
• Your Society is nearly 100 years
old. Its outstanding usefulness to
Australia has been possible because
it has retained, throughout that
period, its individuality and its
freedom of judgment and enter-
prise.
YOU HAVE A RIGHT TO BE PROUD OF YOUR SOCIETY.
A.M.P. SOCIETY
Security through Co-operation .
87 Pitt Street, Sydney.
'0 BOY! what
A WAt> TO G£T k!b OB !'
i
—n
i
M
m
m
I/*"-*
m
A
MM/A
mA
DON'T
FAIL FOR IT-SA VI
AM) DFFY THE
SQUANDER BUS!
The Squander Bug is to-day’s
greatest menace. He’s a super
Fifth Columnist, urging you on
to wasteful spending which
weakens our War Effort. Say
“No, I’m going to save all 1
can—and I’m going to lend my
money to help to bring early vic-
tory.” Join a War Savings Group
—buy War Savings Certificates
or National Savings Bonds.
SS.I-26
Have You Joined
Your Street's War
Savings Group?
If not, join it, and
start your regular sav-
ing right away. If your
street has not a Group,
form one yourself after
getting your Voluntary
Worker's Badge and
practical help from
the War Savings
Organiser, Common-
wealth Savings Bank,
14 Castlereagh Street,
Sydney.
have difficulty in finding equally
profitable employment for the money,
its return will have little effect upon
the earning capacity of the busi-
ness, and the £A might turn out to be
worth more now than in the future.
The comfortable state of the co.’s
finances is reflected in the following com-
parison of balance-sheet figures:
_ . 1939. 1940. 1941. 1942.
Paid capital. . £194,000 £194,000 £194,000 £194,000
Sundry cred.* 63,105 69,071 87,294 52,835
Overdraft .. 10,513 8,403
Property and
plant, etc. 114,247 111,962 109,056 107,264
Stock.. .. 36,074 45,389 52,938 36,832
Hire agreements 119,372 122,283 138,432 100,107
Book debts . . 74,861 71,186 63,800 31,719
Shares, deben-
tures, etc... 50,935 50,935 46,515 46,515
Mortgages . . 7,9’86 7,862 7,777 5,503
G o v e r nment
securities . . 76,817 79,817 80,817 84,817
Gash, etc. .. 13,882 14,349 7,571 45,844
taxation.
Last term reductions of £32,325 in
hire-agreements, £32,087 in book debts
and £16,106 in stocks were accompanied
by a growth of £37,273 in cash, etc., and
a contraction of £34,457 in the outside
debt, which includes an unspecified pro-
vision for taxation. The more or less
liquid surplus (£304,502) was £6060 less
than at the previous balance. Still, after
allowing for the £4,8,500 to be returned
to shareholders, it was equal to 355. 2d.
per pound of paid capital.
Last term turnover, which was reduced
in all departments, was hardest hit in the
cash-order section. Here canvassing is
prohibited, advertising is restricted, the
maximum outstanding advance is limited
to £lO, the Treasury has the right arbi-
trarily to restrict the amount of business
done and “premiums” and discounts on
the orders have been fixed at lower levels
than used to be obtained. All this, to-
gether with a bigger tax bill (£20,461, up
£9262) and the continued climb in costs,
is reflected in a sharp drop of £12,030
in net earnings (£19,045), which are
equal to a shade over 13 p.c, on capital
as it now stands (£145,500). The div.
was lowered from 15 p.c. to 10 p.c. The
general price ceiling and extension of
rationing imposed since the close of
accounts are likely further to restrict
turnover. What will happen to costs
remains to be seen. The Government
has, by imposing the price ceiling just
referred to, endeavored to stop the run-
away movement which inflationary ex-
penditure threatened to promote.
New Golconda (W.A.) dolefully re-
ported in September last that, because of
impoverishment of values in depth, call-
up of men and an almost empty till, it
had abandoned its option on the Iron
Duke mine at Coolgardie. Now chair-
man H. J. Mortlock announces that plant,
then dismantled and stored, has since
been sold for £920, and that this sum is
being held for use as shareholders may
direct in any worth-while venture in the
future. Last year’s receipts totalled £754.
Expenditure was £195 more than this.
There is £52 in the bank. Shareholders’
annual roll-up will be held in Perth on
July 23.
if. * * *
Re Wiluna (B. 7/7/’43). The
co. is now up against it. Reasons are
(1) deterioration in efficiency of labor
and consequent fall in tonnage and rise in
costs, and (2) shortage of essentials needed
in the job of satisfactory gold extraction.
Unless it gets a quick turn-up in the
shape of better work and more supplies
Wiluna, which produces antimony as well
as gold, and is therefore classed as a
“protected” industry, may have to shut
up shop.
JJC s|c JK *
Goldmining taxation is proving a
heavy drain on South African produc-
tion. The amount now levied is 71 p.c.
of the taxable profits, after allowing for
lease rents, gold realisation charges and
other payments. This burden, mine-
owners say, largely nullifies the benefits
accorded by the 1936 tax revision. That
plan was designed to foster the mining of
low-grade ore and thus lengthen the
profitable lives of the mines and the in-
dustry as a whole. According to G. Carle-
ton Jones, president of the Transvaal
Chamber of Mines, the reason why gold-
mining has to pay so much is that it is not
only prosperous but is the country’s major
activity. He points out that if the in-
dustry should be able to reverse the up-
ward movement of its working costs
11\ p.c, of the resultant increase in profit
will go to the State. The severity of
these exactions is having a discouraging
effect on managements, he says.
* # *
From London:
To economise essential materials, including oil
and man-power, the goidmining industry in the
African Gold Coast is being concentrated. The
scheme, states the Colonial Office, contemplates
that the following, mines shall remain in produc-
tion: Ariston, Ashanti, Bibiani, B'remang, Gold
Coast Main Reef, Konongo, and Taquah and
Abosso Mines, Ltd. Remaining mines will be
put on a care-and-maintenance basis, and a
scheme is being worked out to meet the costs of
maintenance from levies on mines remaining in
production. Provisions of United Kingdom
legislation relating to the taxation of companies
contributing levies would apply to the scheme
when put into operation. The Government’s de-
cision came as a surprise, for no hint of any
such development had been given. Several of
the smaller producers in the colony have already
ceased or curtailed production owing to diffi-
culties in obtaining replacements of equipment
and other supplies, particularly explosives and
oil. Production of the Gold Coast for 1941
(the 1942 figures have not yet been announced)
was 886,0000 z., and the foregoing seven cos.—
shares of some of which are held in Australia
—accounted for a very large proportion.
* * * *
“O.B.”: Boosting Canada’s mineral in-
dustries, Canadian Pacific Railway’s
official publication says that since the war
began a mercury mine has been devel-
oped that is the only large source of
the mineral in the British Common-
wealth. Canada, it says, is producing
95 p.c. of all the nickel and 40 p.c. of
all the aluminium used by the United
Nations, and 60 p.c. of the world’s
production of asbestos is mined there.
One aluminium plant is the largest in
the world, and has an output exceeding
total world production of four years ago.
In 1939, the latest year for which com-
prehensive world figures of the Ameri-
can Bureau of Metal Statistics were pub-
lished, Canada stood first in the produc-
tion of asbestos, nickel, the platinum
metals and probably radium ; probably
second in the production of gold, third
in the production of silver, copper and
zinc, and fourth in lead. Value of
Canada’s total mineral production during
1942 reached a “high” of $564,200,000
despite a reduction of $20,000,000 in gold
production.


\
*1
n
m
u
/
» if•
More than three-quarters of a million Australian men and
women are serving in the fighting and auxiliary forces. So
someone has to prepare two million meals a day, and
efficient cooking has become a national service.
AGA, the original heat-storage Cooker, made in Britain,
is playing its part in fulfilling this vast requirement. AGA
Cookers have been supplied to the Navy, Army, and Air
Force, tor unit kitchens or military hospitals, to the American
Army and the Ministry of Munitions. So it delivery of your
AGA Cooker is not made with normal promptness, please
bear in mind the urgent needs of the fighting men and
the auxiliary services.
Whether in military or civilian use, the AGA Cooker burns
continuously; cooks fast or slow as desired; conserves food
flavours, and is almost unbelievably economical.
A demonstration will be gladly given it you call. Or
write for illustrated catalogue R 7.
AGA
RE6D. TRADE MARK
The Original Heai Storage
COOKER
MADE IN BRITAIN
LEVIN & CO. LTD.
Bst. 1852 (Inc. in N.Z.)
45 King Street, Sydney, and
432 Bourke Street, Melbourne.
S.A. Agents: Colton Palmer & Preston
Ltd., Adelaide.
Tasmanian Agents: A. G. Webster &
Sons, Hobart.
W.A. Agents: Malloch Bros. Ltd.,
Perth.
Qld. Agents: Queensland Primary
Producers' Co-op. Assn. Ltd., Brisbane.
Although the Department of War
Organisation of Industry has restricted
the sale of domestic cookers, AGA
Cookers can still be deliyered where
a permit from the Department can
be obtained. Write to us for full
particulars.
A GOVERNMENT YOU CAN TRUST
*
WILL KEEP YOUR SAVINGS
SMFE
A spokesman of the Curtin Government
has admitted the Labor aim of socializa-
tion of Banking'. This is another way of
saying that politicians want to get control
of the savings of the people. Australia’s
financial institutions have a reputation for
unquestioned integrity. Would you like to
deal with a soulless Government Depart-
ment in connection with your monetary
affairs?
The United Australia Party is pledged
to protection of the people’s savings.
SUPPORT
UNITED AUSTRALIA PARTY
VhAh JTb
CANDIDATES
FOR NATIONAL UNITY AND
POLITICAL STABILITY
Authorised by T. K. MALTBY, 395 Collins St., Melbourne
Business, Rollery, Etc.
inflation in Australia
We have been told officially that since
the war began the cost of living in Aus-
tralia has risen by 22 p.c. or thereabouts.
Any suburban housewife will tell you
that, under actual shopping conditions,
the increase has been considerably more.
Price control is ineffective in the case of
many small shopkeepers, and the cost of
fruit, vegetables and meat is frequently
extraordinarily high. Black markets exist
for a number of things. Furthermore, the
Government Statistician, who works out
the official cost-of-living figures, includes
only selected items in his compilation,
some of which are now scarce or unpro-
curable, and substitutes may be more
costly— meat in place of eggs for break-
fast, substitutes for milk and cream in
other dishes. And there are widespread
complaints about short measure in milk
deliveries.
Whatever the true extent of the infla-
tion in living costs, it would be greater
again but for the controls on prices and
spending that are for the time being effec-
tive and but for the fact that many
manufacturers and traders are not allowed
their pre-war margin of profit. Thus,
while people who receive arbitration-
court wages have had the official 22 p.c.
made up to them in wage adjustments,
the majority of company earnings are
down, after providing for company taxa-
tion, which is in addition to shareholders’
taxation. Also, people who lend money
to the Government or to others on mort-
gage or bank deposit get a smaller
return than pre-war, even though living
costs are so much higher. Capital, so
called, is helping to subsidise the con-
sumer and the small taxpayer. Interest
enters into both the cost of living and
the cost of government.
So far as we depend on overseas goods
to keep up our living standard, inflation
in the prices of overseas countries is re-
flected in prices here. We have little
control of world prices, be they high or
low. As buyers we have to pay what is
asked, as sellers take what is offered —we
are only one country in many which to-
gether influence the course of world
prices. But so far as our internal price
level is concerned, that is something
which depends greatly on our own be-
havior. By our working efforts and finan-
cial management we can arrange our
standard of living and cost of living
pretty much to suit ourselves.
Even the cost of war —economically a
wasteful cost —can be handled with a
minimum of inflation if a wholehearted
attempt is made. The problem is one of
recognising the wasteful side of war and
financially treating it as waste, at the
same time submerging the influences of
supply and demand —war-time is invari-
ably a period of scarcity of labor and
goods— to the interest of national neces-
sity. Price control and wage control, as
well as rationing of certain things, are
unavoidable during a war which is con-
suming half of all the normal production
of goods and services.
Inflation may arise from several causes,
chief of which are the spending of more
money than the value received for the
spending, from the spending by Govern-
ments of loan money (including bank
credit) instead of taxation revenue on
war waste or wasteful public “works,”
etc., from the “balancing” of Budgets by
borrowing, and from deliberate currency
debasement.
In connection with the last-mentioned
cause, it has been observed that, in respect
of the 1923 German inflation (which
wiped out the old mark), “whether the
German Government could have pre-
vented a complete collapse of the cur-
rency may never be known, but it may
be safely said that the initial depreciation
of the mark was deliberately conceived
and put into effect.” The Government
attempted to prevent the later develop-
ment of the inflation by “regulations,”
“but entirely neglected to balance its
Budget, to impose fresh taxation, or to
display genuine efforts to meet the de-
mands of its still hostile creditors... .The
work of post-war reconstruction was
financed by further inflation, and the un-
doubtedly bad state of the country, poli-
tically as well as financially, led to a
complete loss of confidence both at home
and abroad.” Life policies. Government
obligations internally, savings-bank and
other deposits were “purged” right out of
the economic picture as a result of the
inflation.
No country in the British Empire has
ever had its currency wiped out by infla-
tion. Australia and Maoriland, however,
have seen their currencies drift 25 p.c.
away from sterling owing to costs infla-
tion and other factors, and sterling itself,
through unbalanced 1914-18 war Budgets
and costs inflation from other causes,
had depreciated greatly in terms of its
original gold parity before the outbreak
of the present conflict. The “washing-
up” that will follow this war has yet to
make its adjustments and revelations.
It can be readily realised that in war-
time, when labor is short and trade-
union bosses know it, it is difficult for
Governments to resist the demand for
more pay, better conditions, etc., even
though it is known that the country
generally has to suffer sacrifices in-
stead of confer benefits. It may be
difficult to impose overall taxation suf-
ficient to pay for war expenditure that is
purely economic waste. It may be diffi-
cult to resist the urge to use indirect
means of finance, such as bank credit,
and it may be hard to supervise the
proper spending of the war funds how-
ever they are raised. But where a Gov-
ernment fails to resist such unfair de-
mands or to impose necessary taxation or
controls it is courting inflation.
We cannot pay those who are engaged
in war work more than the pre-war
hourly rate without inflation in costs. We
cannot relieve those workers and other
people from taxation sufficient to meet
the cost of war without budgetary infla-
tion. We cannot spend money wastefully
at all without inflation, unless that waste
is promptly charged back to the people
in the form of taxation. And we cannot
expand central bank credit to finance war
waste without a most potent source of
monetary inflation opening up, even if
we temporarily sterilise the effect of that
bank credit in the hands of wage-earners,
etc., by preventing a large part of it from
being spent.
In a few words, to the extent that
democracy incorporates certain principles
of nationalised services and functions,
one man cannot obtain a benefit from
the society to which he belongs, unless he
gives a corresponding benefit in return,
without doing so at the expense of that
society. And so, while Australia is heavily
engaged in a war that is biting deep into
our living standards and loading the
nation with debt and other burdens, it
is impossible, with fairness to all, to pay
a man for more than he produces by pre-
war standards, or to excuse him from his
fair share of the cost of war by way of
taxation.
Australia this last year paid less than
30 p.c. of its war expenditure by way of
taxation, and its Budget deficit was in the
vicinity of £4OO million.
It is impossible to avoid inflation em
tirely in war-time. It may be possibly
only in theory to pay the financial cost
of the present huge war by taxation
alone, even though the cost in goods
and services is immediate and undisguised-.
But there is a vast difference between
what could have been done in Australia
to minimise inflation and what has been
done. The Curtin Government all along
refused to put vital financial considera-
tions above the level of party politics.
And that level is the lowest Canberra has
ever seen. Our budgeting has been the
worst in the British Empire, and the cost
of our war production much too high.
In New Zealand living costs have risen
14 p.c. since war started, in Canada 17
p.c., in Australia 22 p.c.
In introducing the latest Budget N.Z.
Finance Minister Nash said:
It is realised that the war can only be
continued by the use of prior or current
production of goods and services. It has
been suggested that the full cost of war
should be met by issues from the Reserve
Bank. This is such an easy road that if it
had good foundations we would follow it,
but the facts of life prove that it leads to
chaos and disaster. At the present time
there is ample money in circulation to
enable the people to purchase necessary
goods and services as they become avail-
ame day by day. What is wanted is the
siphoning off of any excess purchasing-
power for investment in war loans in order
that diversion of productive effort to war
may be matched by a similar diversion of
purchasing-power. Only by these means
can we remove the pressure that threatens
to upset our economic stability.
If we are to make our maximum war
effort, while ensuring good foundations for


KEEP YOUR HAIR ON!
THE TAXPAYERS’ ASSOCIATION’S
Income Tax Guide
TELLS YOU
How to Prepare Your Return,
How Much Tax You Should Pay, etc.
Price 2'6
From All
Leading Booksellers, or from the
Taxpayers’ Association in Capital
City of Each State.
from OIL
|^»Ki J-:
mS E S
are
at
So much has been written on the importance of the
Petroleum Industry to the war effort, particularly in regard
to the production of chemicals such as T.N.T., Toluene,
Acetone, and Glycerine, that one almost imagines the
Petroleum Chemist has confined his efforts to these fields
alone; such is not the case. For.instance—
Methyl Eythl Ketone, so valuable as a constituent or
lacquers and dopes for aeroplanes, is also one of the essen
tials for the production of synthetic plastics and resins
which now play such an important part in the war effort.
These resins, being Thermoplastic and easily moulded
into whatever shape the designer requires, are used largely
in the construction of the shatter-proof windows and domes*
of the modern fighter and bomber.
Shell is better known, however, as the sur-lier of the
correct lubricants and Greases which keep the wheels of
War and Industry forever turning.
SHELLS 0 * OIL SHELL 1L
It'i D’laq.-Ttei
fyou ca ft fa sum (4 SMi
IHE SHELL COMPANY OF AUSTRALIA LIMITED
(INCORPORATED IN ENGLAND)
L 043108-65
Ruwol
Size 60in. x 48in. Type RK Ruwolt Jaw Crusher ;
Finished Weight 135 Tons.
Recently designed and built by Ruwolt’s for the Broken
Hill Proprietary Company Limited, the Crusher illustrated
is a good' example of the “heavy” type of engineering work
produced by Ruwolt’s.
Although now mainly engaged on munition work we are
also able to execute much of the requirements for the essential
Metal, Paper and Rubber Industries.
Then, when Australia has successfully overcome its
present difficulties, we will again be in a position to immediately
attend to all your requirements, similarly to what we have done
in the past.
CHARLES RUWOLT PTY. LTD.
530 Victoria Street, Richmond, E.I
Victoria, AUSTRALIA.
our post-war policy, it is essential that the
currency and monetary system be wisely
managed and controlled. At the present
time the wisest course is to rely on subscrip-
tions to war loans to meet the sum not pro-
vided by taxation at existing rates during
the current year.
Taxation takes from all largely in propor-
tion to their ability to pay the moneys re-
quired to carry on the war and national activi-
ties. Creation of credit under certain circum-
stances takes away by unseen methods the
value of work done and savings made, and
ultimately, in the forms of price increases,
hits those most who have to spend their
incomes on necessaries of life. Loans bor-
rowed from those who have worked and
saved the result of their labor diverts these
savings to the war and national efforts, and
the amounts will be repaid when war needs
are satisfied and production is once again
based on civilian needs.
Maoriland itself has not escaped the
effects of political ignorance and oppor-
tunism. But what Mr. Nash so recently
said is full of import for Australia.
If we have excessive inflation we are
going to have excessive trouble after the
war, if not before. Inflation makes pro-
duction costly, living dear and eats into
the value of savings. Eventually it curdles
the flow of trade activity and causes un-
employment. The longer we have weak
government that bows to expediency the
greater will the momentum of inflation
become.
L. J. McConnan, chairman of the
Associated Banks of Victoria, said re-
cently that the number of shareholders
in Australian banks was between 70,000
and 80,000, the majority of them Aus-
tralians. The average holding was £5OO.
There were nine trading banks, the young-
est 77 years, the oldest 125 years. At
the outbreak of war there were 2500
branches in Australia and 850 part-time
agencies; 500 branches and most of the
agencies have since been closed for man-
power reasons. McConnan said that
some people who advocated the nationali-
sation of banking took such conveniences
as the cheque system too much for
granted. He is quite right; once a
financial service or manufacturing enter-
prise is running smoothly it is regarded
by inexperienced critics as the minimum
possible in the way of that particular
kind of service, while many politicians
regard it as a thing for political exploita-
tion. McConnan added that the confi-
dence in which the Australian people held
the trading banks was the result of long-
continued efficient and honorable service.
* * *
Up to June 30 the present war had cost
Australia £llO6 million. In respect of
the last year the cost was £561.8 million
—more than half the total cost. Revenue
provided £158.9 million of last year’s
war expenditure, and £402.8 million was
provided by public borrowing and bank
credit. Altogether borrowing has been
used to the extent of £742 million in
meeting Australia’s gross war bill of
£llO6 million. Taxation has averaged
about a third of the spending over the
past four years ; last year revenue’s share
was below the average at 28.3 p.c., the
preceding year’s percentage being 34,
In 1942-43 overseas war expenditure
was £79 million, an increase of £32 mil-
lion over the previous year. It was
financed without overseas borrowing,
export income and some inflow of capi-
tal looking after our external war costs.
This overseas outgo is in addition to lend-
lease help and our share of Canada’s
$lOOO million gift of war materials and
essential living requirements.
Last year total taxation collected by
the Commonwealth was £267 million, de-
ducting the £2B million or thereabouts
refunded to the States. Although war
expenditure exceeded the Budget esti-
mates by £121.7 million, only an extra
£lB million of tax revenue was obtained
to meet the increase. Thus borrowing,
instead of being the estimated £3OO mil-
lion, finished up at £402.8 million. Civil
expenditure of £lOB million was met out
of revenue, and made the total Common-
wealth Government spending for 1942-43
£670 million. The total Australian
national income is not much greater than
£lOOO million, and when it is remembered
that State Governments, apart from their
“business undertakings,” handle another
£6O million or more of taxpayers’ money,
the overwhelming influence of Govern-
ment finance on the Australian economy
is obvious. Before the war, leaving out
railways, the post office, etc., the combined
Australian Budgets accounted for less
than £l5O million in the Australian
national income. The fact that the
present tremendous Government spending
on war and essential services coincides
with the weakest financial controls the
country has seen since the eighteen-nine-
ties makes the matter one for particular
concern. The Ministry coming up for
judgment is composed of men whose prin-
cipal experience was in connection with
party politics, and they have been deplor-
able administrators when faced with the
weighty tasks that have had to be
confronted since war came to the Pacific.
H* * * *
At the time the British and American
proposals for post-war trade and ex-
change control were being discussed in
London the “Times Trade and Engineer-
ing” concluded its observations with
these remarks:
The ill-fated League of Nations broke down
primarily because ail nations were not members,
and finally because when it came to the point
it was quite unable to enforce its decisions.
Unless the new authority can enforce its de-
cisions it is bound to fail; and, on the other
hand, it can only enforce them if nations agree
to surrender their sovereign rights. Is it pos-
sible to contemplate with equanimity the trade
of the world ruled by the elected directors of
an international authority? On the other hand,
what practical alternative is there? It may be
sought to control these directors by some higher
authority. Quis custodiet custodes ? But at the
moment it is a great advance that the world
has begun to recognise that it needs full pro-
duction and exchange if its fruits are to be
enjoyed to the utmost capacity of its inhabitants.
Finance should be the handmaid of commerce,
not its mistress. But no system yet enunciated
can create universal equality. No system can
ensure that the inhabitants of a poor arid waste
will be as well off as the inhabitants of a rich
and fertile land, its valleys full of lowing cattle,
its plains clothed with waving corn, its hills
abounding in minerals. That is no more possible
than it is to make the born cripple the equal
of the strong man, w'hile the reduction of the
physical giant to the status of the cripple is
obviously absurd. The world has still far to
go before it reaches the millennium, but that is
no reason for not making progress in the right
direction, and it is salutary to remember that
the factors of prosperity are subject to change.
This generation knows that the mountain torrent
can be a producer of almost inexhaustible
wealth, but its progenitors did not know it,
and no one can tell what are the factors for
the greatest prosperity in the years to come.
# * * *
Last year New Zealand used bank-
credit finance to the extent of £l4 million
in a gross increase of £83.4 million to
the public debt. Public loans, including
national savings, brought in £32.9 million,
and £15.4 million was borrowed from
Britain. Repayments during the year
totalled £5 million, leaving the net in-
crease in the debt at £78.4 million. Re-
payments in the ordinary way included
£2.9 million off the London debt, and, in
addition, the proceeds of an N.Z. loan
of £8 million were transferred to London
and paid off the year’s account, the
healthy overseas trade balance making
this possible. Apart from lend-lease aid
received, Maoriland expenditure on war
in its last financial year was £l2l million,
including the cost of reverse lend-lease.
* !fc * *
New Zealanders last year paid £11.6
million by way of special taxation
for social security. The tax is a
shilling in the pound on all in-
comes. Chief payments were old-age
pensions £B.l million, widows £965,000,
family £920,000, invalids a million, uni-
versal superannuation £820,000, hospital
£2.1 million, medical £l.l million, mater-
nity £539,000, pharmaceutical £536,000,
administration £524,000. Total payments
were £17.4 million ; total income, includ-
ing £4.1 million from consolidated
revenue, was £16.3 million.
* * * *
The Prices Branch has fixed maximum
prices for 185 grocery lines sold in the
Melbourne area. Country grocers will
be allowed to add freight. Grocers must
exhibit the list of prices in their shops ;
it covers most essential lines.
* * * *
W. J. Hitchcock, Controller-General of
the War Damage Commission, said last
week that contribution rates for war-
damage insurance would be reviewed
before the end of the year. Next year’s
rates would depend on the condition of
the fund, now up to £l3 million, and
the war position. Claims received so far
total £8 million, but as most of the
property concerned is in enemy-occupied
territory no reliable estimate can yet be
made as to the actual claims that will
eventually have to be met out of the
fund.
* * * *
Average prices for greasy wool under
the appraisement scheme for the 1942-
43 season are as follows: N. S. Wales,
13.6 d.; Victoria, 15d. ; Queensland,
13.8 d.; South Aus., 12.5 d.; Westralia,
13.5 d.; Tasmania, 17.2 d. Retention
money in respect of participating wools re-
mains at 5 p.c.,payable after June 30,1944.


THE SERVICE MAN
Forward to Salamaua.
“Ek Dum” : While last week’s events in
the New Guinea-Solomons arc gave
ground for satisfaction, they also gave
room for cautious thinking. The capture
of the “Mubo bastion,” which was
heralded in some quarters as if it were the
capture of Tokyo, is only one small step
against the enemy’s hold in New Guinea.
For every 100 men he had in the Mubo
area he probably has thousands in some
other areas, and those areas are hundreds
of miles onward and spread hundreds of
miles apart, divided by sea and jungle.
Mubo positions were only part of an
outpost of Salamaua. Salamaua itself is
only an outpost, as are Lae be-
yond, Finschhafen beyond that, Cape
Gloucester, Gasmata and a dozen more
lootholds before Rabaul is reached in one
direction, and Madang and Wewak in
the other, by the converging Allied forces.
And even the taking of Salamaua and
Lae will be something of a feat. It took
a fortnight and the heaviest bombing and
strafing of enemy positions that the war
in the South Pacific has seen to turf
the enemy out of the small isolated area
between Nassau Bay and the country just
beyond Observation Hill.
The story of the capture was told in
General MacArthur’s communique on
July 15.
The statement said that, after consoli-
dating a bridgehead on Nassau Bay on
June 30, U.S. forces moved inland up
the Bitoi River and junctioned with Aus-
tralian units on July 10 at dusk on
Buigap Creek, which runs almost due
north out of a sharp bend in the Bitoi,
perhaps 1| mile on the Salamaua side of
Mubo village. Mubo itself had been
torn in bits, and had ceased to exist ex-
cept as a name. Buigap Creek runs
almost parallel to the Komiatum trail,
which goes on to Salamaua. The river
crosses the track to the west before
Komiatum is reached, and switches back
again to the seaward side after passing
Komiatum.
The junction of the two forces —U.S
and Australian—cut off the enemy lodged
on Observation Hill and Green’s Hill.
The former is nearer Komiatum than
Mubo, slightly to the north-west of the
Buigap-Bitoi junction—a long, divided
hill. Green’s Hill, with its companion,
The Pimple, a little further from Sala-
maua, is to the south of the Bitoi, n.-e.
from Mubo.
Australians on Garrison Hill, west of
Mubo, and Lababia Ridge, which runs
n.-e. somewhat on the seaward side of
Mubo village and south of it, were in a
horseshoe, holding a fine position to
attack the enemy strongholds. Follow-
ing the severe treatment to which the
enemy had been subjected on July 7 with
106 tons of bombs, he was not in much
condition to resist.
It was not long before all Japanese
defences on Green’s Hill, The Pimple and
Observation Hill were wiped out, and
the united Allied forces were moving up
the Komiatum trail, cleaning up as they
went.
The battle for the Mubo, area had cost
the enemy 950 men in recent casualties.
On Saturday the Allied advanced posts
were reported only six miles from Sala-
maua proper, whose tiny isthmus and its
approaches the Allied bombers were sys-
tematically hammering. It is a well-
defined target, and under attack from the
air such as that suffered the previous
week by the Mubo objectives it would
soon become untenable.
Towards the end of the week raiding
spread over nearly the whole of the
enemy-held area of the northern defence
bow, from New Ireland to the D.E.I.
The Japs tried desultory raids, mostly
with small forces —17 bombers with
fighter escort west of Beni Beni, three
float ’planes incongruously inland over
Wau (all shot down for the loss of a
Kittyhawk), nine dive-bombers over
Nassau Bay, six bombers over the ad-
jacent Woody Island and four over
Lasanga Bay. None of these raids did
much damage.
More Jap Ships Lost
The forces on New Georgia worked
steadily nearer to Munda, but not with-
out encountering a bitter resistance. The
enemy seems to have a Munda garri-
son of 5000 to 10,000 men. Unlike his
European allies, the Jap shines in defence,
even to the death.
His first naval force in Kula Gulf was
wiped out. He sent another to attempt
to supply his New Georgian posts.
This, having been shadowed in the
last week-end, was reported to have
turned back. But it was caught in Kula
Gulf evidently trying to succor Munda.
A light cruiser and two destroyers were
sunk and two others probably sunk.
Some other vessels made off northward
at speed and escaped.
At the week-end about 200 Allied
machines, from Liberators downward,
were involved in an all-out bearding of
the enemy in his den in the north Solo-
mons at Buin on the southern tip of
Bougainville.
First the covering aerodrome at
Kahili was subjected to night-long treat-
ment with 82 tons of bombs, and then
the shipping in the harbor was carved
up like a Thanksgiving turkey. The bag
included a light cruiser or flotilla leader,
two destroyers, a submarine-chaser, a
tanker and two cargo vessels sunk, and a
third freighter was beached. There were
15 ships in the harbor at the time of the
attack.
Allied aircraft went back next day
with 90 tons of bombs, damaged two
more destroyers, sank another freighter
and damaged still another, besides shoot-
ing down 13 fighters for a loss of four
machines.
The Jap did not take the assault lying
down. He put up strong squadrons of
interceptors, and there was some bonny
air fighting. A G.H.Q. report on the
score of losses; Enemy, 49 machines ;
U.S., six.
Off Kolombangara three Jap destroyers
were hit in a night fight, and one was
believed to be sunk.
On New Georgia
The operations on New Georgia are
gradually whittling the enemy away piece-
meal. By July 14 he had been peeled
away in shavings from the Munda outer
perimeter, which was now almost stripped
of outposts on the north.
The U.S. force moving in from Enogai
Inlet had counted 150 dead, and its
bag of equipment included artillery and
machine-guns.
While this gradual advance and
mopping up continued the air presented
a livelier scene. On July 15 the enemy
tried his usual manoeuvre of sending a
comparatively small force of 27 medium
bombers, escorted by a cloud of between
50 and 60 “O” fighters, over Rendova,
but the interceptors reported having
brought down 15 bombers and 30
fighters—numbers greater than their own
—for a loss of only three machines.
Allied ’planes that day were out over
Vila, which was saluted with 54 tons of
explosive; and patrols sank a small
vessel, pushed another on to the reef near
Baga Island and blew the bottom out of
three barges.
One U.S. ship was lost during the
week the destroyer Gwin, which,
severely damaged in the second Kula
Gulf fight, sank while in tow.
On the whole, the enemy had a bad
fortnight. The Allied H.Q. estimate of
his losses between June 30 and July 17
was 17 ships sunk and 305 ’planes shot
down, against 53 lost by his attackers.
The Jap account of relative air losses
since the New Georgia operations began
was 47 Jap and 188 U.S. aircraft.
Tokyo sounded dispirited about the
situation, though its radio claimed, as
usual, that the Japs were winning all
along the line.
Established in Sicily.
“Ek Bum”: Four days after the Allies
had made their first landing in southern
and eastern Sicily, they had established a
fine, well-defendable bridgehead in the
south-eastern corner. They had scoured
up the east coast to the environs of
Catania, the island’s second-biggest city
and the most modern, with a population
of about 250,000. The monstrous moun-
tain of Etna is just outside its north-
western suburbs.
The Eighth Army’s spearhead was well
and truly on the fringes of the Catanian
Plain, on which a large air organisation
can be comfortably accommodated. Its
advance guards were only 60 miles or so
from Messina and about 50 miles
from the nearest point on the Italian
coastline. This approach seems to have
been achieved on July 14. The high toe
of Calabria could quite well be visible
to their naval guard from *a fighting top
on a very clear day. But at one of the
coastal defiles, a position not unlike that
of Thermopylae in Greece, they were
meeting the first heavy enemy resistance
near Lentini.
That night Allied m.t.bs. were scour-
ing the Messina Strait, which, 30 miles
wide at the lower end, narrows down to
about four or five miles opposite the
sickle harbor of Messina—to perhaps a
couple of miles from the far entrance
to the Tyrrhenian Sea. Looking from
shore to shore at this point is like look-
ing at Rose Bay Heights in Sydney from
Ashton Park.
What, however, was more immediately
important than the actual advances was
that they had been achieved with so
little trouble.
Syracuse, tucked n.-w. of the Murro di
Porco Peninsula, fell without any serious
struggle 48 hours after the first glider and
parachutist groups were dropped further
west. It has a good anchorage—Nelson
called it “this delightful harbor”—and
facilities were virtually undamaged.
On July 12 the Navy, with a strong
cruiser force, monitors and other craft,
bombarded Augusta, the naval base 14
miles further north, while a land force
moved up the coastal roads from Syra-
cuse to the suburbs. Next day, under
cover of bombardment, troops were
landed on one side, while the Syracuse
detachment put on a squeeze from the
south and south-west, backed by para-
chutists. And Augusta fell.
The enemy did not leave the British in
uncontested possession. Here he launched
the first counter-attack in sufficient
strength to show that he had a weight of
defence ready to be unleashed; He made
a whirling assault which for the moment
isolated Augusta ; but only momentarily.
the Eighth Army consolidated its pos-
session of the port, and went on to repeat
its dashing performances along the 20
miles of coast which reaches to the
suburbs of Catania, carefully sparing
towns, but pouncing with shellfire and
bomb on aerodromes. Soon it was well
established on the edge of the Plain of
Catania, the best tank battleground in
Sicily, approaching the real defence zone,
the glacis of the island’s central fortress.
Sicilian Strategy
The heraldic arms of Sicily well repre-
sent the island’s strategic defence needs
and the reasons for the Allied method of
approach. The arms consist of a solid
central human head from which grow,
round the circumference of a circle, three
stout limbs in the manner of the legs on
the crest of the Isle of Man. This pic-
ture represents the central mountain
region and the three peninsulas based
upon it which make up Sicily.
The enemy, no doubt having learnt
here as elsewhere the deadly lesson of
concentration, has constructed his main
defence system (if he has one) round the
centre of the island.
The objectives of the Allies would
thus be:
(1) To seize the middle one of Sicily’s
three arms—the Passero Peninsula.
(2) To reach out on each side of it by
working up the east coast to Catania, and
along the south coast towards the old hot
spring resort of Sciacca, and grab and
crush the other two limbs.
(3) With an octopus grip enveloping the
whole caved-in defence structure, to break
in the central skull of the defence head
after it, by envelopment, has had its blood-
stream from Italy cut off; or
(4) To batter a way direct into the
heart of the defence centre and, if the Axis
shows any weakness, to drive a couple of
sawcuts through the defensive skull from
Catania and the south coast and thus sec-
tibnalise and destroy it.
Through converging drives, one from
the American front in the Salso region
and one from the south of Catania on
the Eighth Army front, the invaders
could find themselves in possession of
the very centre of the Sicilian defence
system in the region of Enna ; and the
distance needed to be travelled to achieve
this conjunction is only between 40 and
50 miles for each army. It is on this
approach to the railway from below
Catania to the Enna district that the
Eighth Army is being resisted; the start-
ing point for the drive from the south is
also being defended.
Success of this plan would bring the
Allies to within 30 miles of the north
coast west of Ce Falu, above Mistretta,
and put them in control of the vital cen-
tral junction which ties the whole island
rail communication together.
A 50-mile northerly drive across the
island further west —Porto Erapedocle to
Termini —just east of Palermo, would
finish the matter. Establishment of Brit-
ish air-power on the Catania Plain at
Gerbini and elsewhere, and of naval
power along the east coast, where at mid-
week it seemed very nearly established
already, would cut off Italian supplies
from central and western Sicily.
Axis Strength and Tactics.
By July 15 the enemy had shown signs
that he intended to fight at a centre of
concentration —no more for him the long,
vulnerable lines of the Tunisian front.
Warnings camb from Britain and the
U.S.A. that he had about 300,000 troops
in Sicily, about 60,000 of them German.
And Berlin Radio declared:
We have a carefully-prepared plan for
the defence of Sicily, which is now de-
veloping. The coastal defence has done its
wbrk. Our infantry will go into action with
proper support at the right time.
When the approaches of Catania began
to be assailed Axis resistance stiffened
savagely. This was the point where re-
sistence might have been expected. The
loss of Gerbini airfield would be a major
disaster, and that of Catania would have
a tremendous moral effect.
The conditions here are suitable in any
case for decisive resistance if there is the
power to make it. The way to the north
along the east coast is split by the enor-
mous 400-square-mile base of Etna,
which occupies nearly 5 per cent, of
the total area of the island. The point
from which its ascent is made is only
nine miles from Catania.
In the small triangle of coastal land
between Catania, San Nicoli and Aci-
reale, each 10 or 12 miles apart, where
the northern road squeezes between the
butt of Etna and the sea, is one of the
densest rural populations of the world—
sometimes 1200 and more to the square
mile. The area forms a good gap to
block, though it is also a good gap to
bombard from the sea.
Round the western shoulder of Etna
the road —which 30-odd miles out passes
through Nelson’s Bronte, still owned by
his collateral descendants—hugs the
mountain, climbing up foothills till, about
3000 ft. up, it reaches the junction town
of Randazzo on the north.
Here it splits into two highways—one
goes to the east coast, Taormina and the
Messina Strait, the other north to Cape
Orlando. But this road is highly defen-
sible, climbing steeply and rather wind-
ingly in the first 30 miles and skirted by
dominating heights at various points.
The Allies within five days had
achieved the main part of their first ob-
jective. They had a firm grasp on one
of Sicily’s three arms and had taken
nearly all the kick out of it, and their
land supply bases were in being and some
aerodromes in working order.
It was difficult to understand why the
enemy had sacrificed the south-eastern
corner of the island if he intended to
defend the rest, since it was the kind of
bridgehead the Allies most needed ; since,
also, it should not have been difficult to
defend against a landing. Perhaps the
Italians preferred temporarily to lose
some of the best tourist resorts to having
them blown to pieces.
The Terrain
The defensive system of the south-
eastern corner of the island may be said
to have two perimeters, tied to Gela (Ter-
ranova) and the Salso on the south and
Syracuse on the east.
The inland ring is strapped in by a
mountain road, barred at each end by
fortress passes and enclosing rough gorge
and range in which every objective has
only constricted avenues of approach.
There is an inner perimeter nearer
Cape Passero capable of being more
easily pierced from the sea.
The northward or outer road which
binds in the Syracuse-Cape Passero-Gela
bridgehead goes up the Anapo from
Syracuse, past beds of papyrus, past
Floridia, miles out (in British hands
early), to the walled plateau of Pantalica,
with its 5000 cliff-grave recesses, and on
to Palazzolo, on top of a pass about 2000
feet high in the Hyblsean Mountains—
also soon captured.
This pass blocks and covers all traffic
between Syracuse and the southern coast
by the inland routes wherever they lead.
Its possession ended the enemy’s chance
of defending the bridgehead.
From the top of the pass it is possible
to look far down the winding valley of
the Anapo, on the north-east, to where
it turns abruptly near Sortino to join the
sea in Syracuse Harbor. The valley on
the southerly side is equally exposed.
The road turns northward from the
pass over the Buccheri Plateau, a blasted
heath on which there is neither tree nor
shrub nor anything that is not forlorn,
until a very bad smell advises the
approach of Buccheri town, with its
sudden, breath-taking view of Etna, filling
the whole north with a lovely majesty.
The road now goes on north-west
along the constricted saddle of the
Hyblsean range, reaching the heart of the
mountains by descending to the town of
Vizzini. Vizzini smells even more in
summer than Buccheri. Its inhabitants
(18,000) are more numerous and have
more goats.
From here the highway completes the
encirclement from east to south coast
by diving down a vast ravine into
a landscape of vine and orchard inter-
spersed with prickly-pear and arriving,
first at Granmichele, only about 1000ft-
above sea level, then at Caltagirone, which
sits on a three-piece hill, and then on the
Campo Geloi, along the Gela River, at
whose main town Gela (Terranova) on
the sea the Americans made the most
westerly preliminary landing. This is
fertile grainland—the ancient Greeks
used to call it pyrophoros— “the wheat
country.” Gela itself is on a long hill-
Pindar would not in modern times repeat


Public Notice.
I, RUEBEN GRINBAUM, known as GREEN,
of Polish nationality, born at Bielawy, Poland,
and resident five years in Australia, now re-
siding at 25 Hall Street, Bondi, N.S.W., intend
to apply for naturalisation under the Nationality
Act 1920-1936.
Divorce Notice.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES— In Divorce.
TO WILLIAM CHALMERS late of Singleton
in the State of N. S. Wales. —TAKE NOTICE
that IDA MARY PEARL CHALMERS has
filed a Petition for Divorce No. 1514 of 1943
on the ground of desertion without just cause or
excuse for three years and upwards If you wish
to defend you may enter an appearance at the
Divorce Office Supreme Court King Street Syd-
ney by the Seventh day of October One thou-
sand nine hundred and forty-three and you may
obtain a copy of the petition without charge
from MESSRS. ENRIGHT & SKILTON of 467
High Street West Maitland Solicitors or their
Town Agents MESSRS. TAYLOR & KEAR-
NEY City Mutual Building Hunter and Bligh
Streets Sydney.— (l.s.) C. K. BODY, Registrar.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES— In Divorce.
TO JACK BERESFORD BOWDEN late of
Paddington Engineer. —TAKE NOTICE that
HAZEL MARGARETTA BOWDEN has filed
a Petition for Divorce No. 2204 of 1941 on the
ground of your desertion If you wish to defend
the suit you should enter an appearance on or
before the First day of December One thou-
sand nine hundred and forty-three and obtain a
copy of the petition without charge from
GEOFFREY DYSON BONAMY Solicitor 56
Hunter Street,, Sydney.— (l.s.) C. K. BODY,
Registrar.
cftoyalffiujtleShm
tiis ecstatic verdict that it was “the fair-
est of mortal cities.”
The road at the Gela end is stoppered
by the pass of Caltagirone, as at the
Syracuse end it is guarded by the pass
of Palazzolo.
Owning this road the defenders should
fiave had mobility across the defence arc
from coast to coast and power to domi-
nate approaches to the country between
it and Cape Passero, which forms the
Allied bridgehead from any direction.
Inside the triangle formed by the high-
way and the east and south coasts there
is a charming assortment of rough coun-
try, with gorges as precipitous as any
the Blue Mountains have to show, and
delightful sites for ambushes, enfilades
and plain and fancy dropping of rocks
and bombs. Unfortunately for the de-
fenders of this section, which is
approached best from the Palazzolo Pass,
its main towns are somewhat eligibly
situated for naval and air bombardment,
and a bomb dropped into the centre of
most of them would scrape their un-
earthly beauty off the cliffs in a cascade.
Modica and Ragusa
The first reached is Modica, set
steeply and beautifully at the junction of
two valleys, on the walls of which it is
hung more or less like a staghorn. Its
55,000 people bear traces of Phoenician
origin and of Saracen intrusion, and are
reckoned the most friendly and polite
people in Sicily. But their bailiwick
smells even more like a Mac Donnell
Range blacks’ camp than most Sicilian
towns.
An unstable though somewhat rococo
beauty is intensified by the presence of a
river (Torrente di Santa Maria) which
gambols down the centre of the main
street.
Nine miles along a road which looks
as if it might have a brigand round every
corner another town appears, the biggest
in the interior of the Passero region. It
pops up suddenly as on a movie screen,
a vision of beauty and grandeur. A great
church sends up a dome like St. Peter’s
beside a towering citadel. Mellowed,
highly-colored architecture cascades down
a hillside to a gorge like a waterfall and
is joined to another town down below
across the gorge by a marvel of a
stairway.
This is Ragusa—Ragusa Superiore on
top and Ragusa Inferiore across the
beautiful stairway which spans the gorge.
Both Modica and Ragusa seem to
have given in hastily after a few naval
salvos.
With the inland zone infiltrated and the
invaders inside the gates to the Syracuse-
Gela cordon the game was up, and the
main parts of the beachhead won.
Progress Everywhere
By the week-end all the country inside
the Gela - Caltagirone -Vizzini - Syracuse
road boundary was in Allied hands, and
the belt of occupation had been widened
to cover a third of the island —3000
square miles, secured for little loss. A
substantial share of this, including Viz-
zini and the Caltagirone gateway, had
been won by Canadians.
The Americans on the south coast, who
had at first moved somewhat more
slowly than the other forces, quickened
their pace. They took Porto Empedocle
and Agrigento (Girgenti) with 4000
prisoners, and were beginning the cross-
island sawcut along the railway to Enna
in the defence skull. The Eighth Army,
linking with the Canadians, was forcing
its way towards Enna from the east
against stiffening resistance, at the same
time threatening the belt of aerodromes
on the Catania Plain round Gerbini and
the western Catanian suburbs.
Having broken the Lentini bottleneck,
the Eighth Army was in the outer suburbs
of Catania. Catania had suffered heavy
naval bombardment by a battleship and
other craft at short range, and its
military objectives were being incessantly
attacked by Allied aircraft.
About 30,000 prisoners were in Allied
hands.
The Air War
The air war, apart from co-operation
with landing forces, proceeded with suc-
cess and rapidity. For this the Allies must
thank their own air forces. Of seven
aerodromes which had fallen into Allied
hands by July 15, some were not worth
anything save as scrap. Malta had got its
own back with a vengeance on those
nearest to it.
Comiso, between Ragusa and GeU
the south coast, was a fair sample. Its
runways were masses of zigzag oomb-
holes. Its huge hangars were gutted,
along with stores and quarters, and
wrecked ’planes were plastered round its
edges in dozens.
On July 16 Gerbini had yet to fall.
It is well out on the Catanian Plain.
From it the whole north-east coast is
within ten-minutes’ bomber range and
comfortable short-range fighter ambit.
With a couple more workable aero-
dromes in Allied hands it was clear on
July 15 that Sicily would soon be almost
indefensible from the air.
Once Messina and San Giovanni and
Reggio, across the strait on the mainland,
are within ordinary fighter range the
towns will be worth notnmg even in a
junk-yard.
At Messina the civic authorities have
obligingly lumped nearly all their vital
facilities at the base of the narrow harbor
inside the sickle-shaped peninsula—train-
ferry landing, main railway stations, in-
dustrial quarter, central power station
and a cemetery full of remains from the
1908 earthquake lie so close together that
a few block-busters would ruin the lot.
And Palermo, further west, Sicily’s
largest and noisiest city, already was said
on July 12 to be aerially defenceless and
torn in jagged holes in a way which
augurs badly for the future,
j>ut iNapies uaa naa me most powerful
blasting—Algiers said with 500 bombers,
of which only one failed to return —so
far administered to an Italian city. Rail-
way facilities in particular were reported
badly damaged. Turin was still licking
its wounds from a British pounding;
fires were burning five days afterwards.
Other mainland Italian centres were con-
tinually under fire.
“Die for Mussolini”?
Allied aircraft distributed over Italy
and Sicily millions of Churchill-Roose-
velt leaflets which must surely have been
inspired by some knowledge of the in-
ternal situation;
The combined forces of the United States,
Britain and Canada are carrying the war
deep into your country... .Today Ger-
many’s hopes for world conquest have been
blasted on all fronts. Vast air armadas
of America and Britain dominate the skies
over Italy. Italy’s sea coasts are threatened
by the greatest accumulation of British and
United States sea-power ever concentrated
in the Mediterranean.
The sole hope of Italy’s survival lies in
an honorable capitulation to the over-
whelming military forces of the United
Nations. The time has come for you to
decide whether the Italians shall die for
Mussolini and Hitler or live for Italy and
civilisation.
A military Government has been set
up in Sicily under General Alexander,
with Lord Rennell and Brigadier-General
McSherry (U.S. Army) as joint adminis-
trators. In the areas under Allied con-
trol Fascist officials have been dismissed
and their authority transferred to non-
Fascists.
U.S. Fortress Successes.
Allied air attacks on northern Europe
last week included a severe R.A.F. raid
on Aachen (Aix la Chapelle), a great
military headquarters and railway junc-
tion of the Rhineland. The Germans ad-
mitted heavy casualties, and declared that
21 bombers were shot down —the R.A.F.
admitted the loss of 20.
The great aerodrome of Le Bourget
and Maility ’drome were attacked by Fly-
ing Fortresses on July 14, with a strong
R.A.F. fighter escort which destroyed six
FWl9o’s. The Fortresses claimed more
than 45 German fighters shot down in
a battle over their much-damaged objec-
tives. Eight Allied bombers and four
fighters were lost in these operations. The
German report alleged the destruction of
22 ’planes, of which 14 were heavy U.S.
bombers. Paris Radio declared that 150
’planes took part in the attacks on Paris
aerodromes and that 53 persons had been
killed, 202 injured and 100 houses wiped
out. •
On July 15 Halifaxes attacked the
Peugeot motor works at Mont Behard,
near the Swiss border, a few miles from
the fortress town of Belfort.
A U.S. Fortress formation, unescorted,
reported having shot down 50 enemy
fighters during a raid on industrial targets
in Amsterdam and n.-w. Germany on
July 17. Only two Fortresses were lost.
General Arnold, C.-in-C. U.S. Army
Air Force, reports that in the first six
months of 1943 his pilots destroyed 3515
aircraft, probably destroyed 1127 and
damaged 1280 others for a loss of 846
U.S. ’planes ; they also sank 121 enemy
-—bably sank 74 and damaged
315 others.
In the Kursk Salient.
“Ek Dum”: On July 5 the Germans
launched an offensive on the Byelgorod
sector of the Russian front, with a sub-
sidiary flank blow in the region of Orel,
at the other end of a 125-mile-wide Rus-
sian salient.
According to Moscow reports, the
enemy suffered tank and ’plane losses
without precedent. In eight days he lost
a number of tanks equal to the equipment
of six divisions ; in effect, a fourth of the
tank forces used in the three great drives
on Leningrad, Moscow and the Ukraine
in 1941 and half the force employed in
the Don drives of 1942. As for ’planes,
his machine casualties were equal to two-
thirds of the whole strength of a front-
line air army.
But after the terrible week of attrition
the Germans asserted and the Russians
admitted that a deep wedge had been
driven into the Byelgorod front. Berlin
said that the first stage of the operation
was completed, and it claimed 28,000
Russian prisoners. A wedge also seemed
to have been driven on the Orel front,
but this obviously was not the main
enemy operation.
The Battle of Communiques
Progress of events from then on-
wards :
July 13.
Russian report: Particularly fierce fighting in
the Byelgorod sector. In the Orel, Kursk and
Byelgorod regions 122 German tanks were de-
stroyed and damaged and 18 ’planes shot down.
On the Orel-Kursk front we repulsed enemy
attacks —weaker than on preceding days. In
the Byelgorod sector the enemy made several
attacks, transferring his blows as he failed in
various sectors. The Germans have lost 2622
tanks and 1126 ’planes in eight days.
German: After dispersing two Soviet tank
corps our attacks north of Byelgorod gained
further ground. Strong Russian counter-attacks
against the spearheads and flanks of the German
offensive wedges and fierce Russian relief
attacks in the areas east and north of Orel
broke down with severe losses. We destroyed
more than 400 tanks and 103 ’planes yesterday.
July 14.
Russian: On the Byelgorod front today
troops continued to fight enemy infantry and
tanks. The enemy did not attempt major opera-
tions on the Orel-Kursk front. We destroyed 96
tanks and 17 ’planes on the Byelgorod front,
and 78 ’planes were shot down on Monday. In
the Byelgorod sector the Germans are striving
to achieve success at any price Soviet units
in some sectors launched counter-attacks and
pressed back Germans who had driven a wedge
into our positions.
German: Soviet attacks in the Byelgorod
area broke down with heavy losses. Two regi-
ments were completely routed, and many Rus-
sians were taken prisoner. About 200 tanks
were put out of action in one sector alone.
Increased Soviet forces also made violent attacks
east and north of Orel, but gained no success,
despite their very high sacrifices. The battles
are continuing with the greatest violence.
German reserves are counter-attacking. The
Luftwaffe destroyed many tanks and shot down
212 ’planes.
July 15.
Russian: On the uyeigorod front we con-
tinued to engage advancing enemy tanks and
inlantry. More than 100 tanks were disabled
or destroyed. On the Orel-Kursk front the
enemy did not attempt attacks. According to
incomplete data 47 ’planes were shot down to-
day and 158 tanks were destroyed on all
sectors on July 13. Several fierce German
counter-attacks on the Byelgorod front met
stubborn resistance, and the Russians in some
sectors dislodged the enemy from inhabited
localities. The Germans lost 2000 officers and
men in killed alone. One tank unit wiped out
600 Germans and destroyed 35 tanks, including
seven Tigers.
German: Despite bad weather, heavy battles
continue on the Russian front. Another enemy
formation was dispersed in the Byelgorod area,
where counter-attacks, weaker than previously,
were repulsed. East and north of Orel the
Russians continued their attacks, supported by
tanks and ’planes. Russian attempts to break
through failed.
From London it was reported that day
that “observers here are disappointed that
the significance of the last 10 days’ hap-
penings in Russia has not been fully
realised amid the mass of dispatches on
the Sicilian operations.” There are no
“observers” on the Russian front —
neither correspondents nor Anglo-Ameri-
can attaches.
On July 16 came news of a “tremen-
dous” Russian counter-stroke.
Moscow issued a special communique
which was repeated over and over again,
blanketing the news of Sicilian advances
and ousting Eighth Army and Canadian
achievements from pride of place in
8.8. C. and A.B.C. announcements:
The Red Army launched an offensive east
and north of Orel North of Orel our troops
pierced strongly fortified defensive lines on a
front 25 miles wide and have advanced in three
days 25 miles. Numerous enemy fortifications
and strongpoints have been smashed and
more than 50 inhabited places, including
the Ulyanovo district centre, occupied. East
of Orel our forces broke through on a 20-mile
front, overcame resistance and advanced 12 to
15 miles, occupying 60 inhabited places, includ-
ing several large centres. ,
The Red Army routed the 56th, 262nd and
393rd German divisions, inflicted heavy losses
onthe 112th, 208th and 211th infantry divisions
and on the 250th and 36th motorised divisions.
In three days it took more than 2000 prisoners.
According to incomplete data we have captured
187 raor tars. We also have
destroye( ) 109 tanks, 292 ’planes and 47 guns
and killed 12,000 German officers and men in
three days. The offensive continues In the
Byelgorod direction the Russians repulsed
counter-attacks by fresh troops and tanks, de-
stroying 51 tan k s and 100 lorries loaded with
ammunition and killing 2000 men.
German: Heavy battles continued in bad
th^ d enemy force',
Russ j an counter-attacks in this sector are weaker
because of heavy casualties. The Russians made
powerful relief attacks
from Kursk to Sukhimchi [B5 miles along me
Bryansk-Orel holding line]. They were
rep elled with heavy losses, including 530 tanks
and 48 ’planes.
The subsidiary information was
puzzling. Moscow Radio announced that
tow & ns taken in the or el offensive in-
duded Setuka> 2 8 miles east of Orel,
and BerezovetZj 30 miles east of Orel,
Both these were supposed to be well in
Russian rasp a i rea dy. It was further
stated from Moscow that the offensive,
Qn a front of well over joo miles, was
bei undert aken by Marshal Timo-
shen|-0j using eight or n i ne infantry divi-
sions, with several tank brigades—a rather
torce fol uc jl a task ‘ , ,
# On July 17 Moscow announced a
further advance of six to eight miles, with
the destruction of 168 tanks and 104 air-
craft ; also a new drive from south of
Orel so that the Orel-Bryansk railway
j’ d b threatened from both direc-
v
tions.
The enemy asserted that the attacks at
Q l h d been beaten back . He admitted
offensive attacks south-west ot ivrymsK,
in the Kuban, and on the Mius River in
tbe Taganrog sector, and claimed that
, . rf , o inn<: woro sealing
his troops in these regions were sealing
small breaches in the lines,
A t midday on July 18 he added 450
p • t k . b :„ a ii,.„ ed score
Russian tanks to ms alleged s .
It is fine to see the Russians offering
so dogged a defence to the invaders’ on-
and capable of mounting vigorous
oftnrkc c n f qr the onerations in
counter-attacks. J>o lar me operations in
the east are not nearly as important as
those of the Allied armies in Sicily ; but
tbe R uss i ans ca n take Orel and cut the
„ , lf „,:it ; n A PP A t-.p onoH
Bryansk railway it will indeed be good
news.
In brief;
An English town (Grimsby, the enemy
claimed) suffered a savage raid on the night of
July 12. Dozens of homes were wrecked and
a number of persons killed. One bomber was
shot down. No bombs had been dropped over
Britain at night since June 25. Civilian casual-
ties in the U.K. for June were 201 killed (in-
cluding 67 women and 15 children) and 287
injured or in hospital.
* * * ♦
The Admiralty announces that from July,
1942, to May, 1943, 343 enemy ships, totalling
860,000 tons, were sunk on Mediterranean
supply lines.
* * * *
New Delhi reports the arrival of strong Jap
reinforcements in Burma. Activity on the
Burma front has been limited to the continu-
ous bombing and strafing of British and U.S.
units. It is announced that a British raid on
Thaungdara on July 8 killed 120 Jap soldiers.


WAR SERIES
RONALDSDNTIPPETT
W E have completed very large orders of the 2% H.P. totally
enclosed, air-cooled engines with which these Cable Laying
Machines are powered.
Reports come to us that these engines are putting up excellent
performances everywhere, thus adding lustre to the Ronaldson-
Tippett reputation for honest workmanship.
We are committed to a heavy programme of “war” work and
consequently only a very small proportion of our production is
available for ordinary requirements, but we DO appreciate the
goodwill which prompts so many enquiries.
RONALDSON BROS. & TIPPETT PTY., LTD.
Head Office: BALLARAT, Vic.
N.S.W. Distributors: Donaldson Bros. & Tippett Pty., Ltd., Frazer House,
42 Bridge Street, SYDNEY.
Queensland Distributors: Bonaldson Tippett (Q’land) Pty., Ltd.,
Parburv House, 127 Eagle Street. BRISBANE.
Gordons
Gin
TANQUERAY GORDON & CO. LTD.
LONDON GIN DISTILLERS
LONDON ENGLAND
SPORTING NOTIONS
(Conducted by "PILOT")
Beating off his former stablemate
Highland March after they had jumped
the last of the 25 fences together, Victory
March, one of the smallest horses in the
field, went on to a five lengths’ win in
the 1943 Grand National Steeplechase at
Flemington on Saturday, Several of the
runners failed to complete the course,
and, although the field was not up to usual
G.N. standard, Victory March’s time of
6min. 2sec. for the three miles and one
furlong was three seconds inside the race
record held by Redditch (1933) and
Blackford (1940) and three-quarters of
a second inside the course record set by
Dark David in the 1940 Australian
Steeplechase.
Victory March’s success was well-
deserved, as after being narrowly defeated
in the event last year he was also runner-
up in the Australian Steeplechase. He
has been particularly consistent this
season, scoring three wins and three plac-
ings from six starts. Rumors that all was
not well with the gelding, although denied
by his trainer, apparently influenced
punters, as he was ousted from favoritism
by Highland March, who started at 3 to
1. Starting at 7 to 2, Victory March
carried 10.13 and gave a splendid exhi-
bition of jumping. Nicely ridden by G.
Godfrey, he was always in a good posi-
tion, and when the lightweight West
Haran lost his rider at the second-last
fence he was left in front with Highland
March.
Under his 11.7 Highland March fought
on gamely, but he was outstayed by Vic-
tory March, who left him about a fur-
long from the finish to go on to a com-
fortable win. Third, three and a half
lengths away, was Jack Farr. First and
second were both sired by March Along.
To add to leading cross-country trainer
D. S. McCormick’s bad luck in big races
—he provided the runner-up in both
“legs” of the G.N. —was the bitter fact
that he formerly trained the winner, but
advised his owner to sell him.
Victory March was bought for 25gns.
by former cross-country jockey and
trainer Alec Fullarton, who now races
him in partnership with amateur rider
W. Graham. When Fullarton became a
defence worker he turned Victory March
over to D. Zeally to train. West Haran
was going well when he lost his rider,
but it is doubtful whether he would have
beaten such a fine stayer as the winner.
The rest of the field was outclassed. Six
of them failed to get round, two —Mag
Mort and Spirak—having to be destroyed.
Parentena was scratched on Friday
owing to soreness.
Conceding weight to all her opponents
in the Two-year-old. Mile, Night Link, a
filly by The Night Patrol from Link
Divine, won in fine style and drew atten-
tion to her prospects in the Oaks. A
consistent filly, Night Link had been
placed at her previous three starts, and
she gives promise of developing into a
useful stayer. On Saturday she finished
on strongly and was untroubled to win
by a length and a half.
Appropriately, the concluding event of
the V.R.C.’s Grand National meeting,
the Winter Handicap, was won by a
hurdler. Unaffected by her gruelling
race the week before, the G.N. Hurdle
winner Claudette flashed home in bril-
liant style to win by a length and three-
quarters from Similar. Although she had
good form on the flat to her credit,
punters apparently thought she would not
be ready so soon to win again, and she
started at 8 to 1. It was a unique per-
formance, and in the two races on con-
secutive Saturdays the versatile mare
covered four miles and five furlongs. She
carried 8.0, and has 7.1 in the Melbourne
Cup.
* * * *
The attendance at the Moorefield
meeting at Canterbury on Saturday did
not look so great as at that track the
previous week, but the falling-off, if any,
could really have been very light, seeing
there was a tote turnover of about
£40,000. There was never more money
for cash betting on Sydney racecourses
than at present.
Prince (Cook) was backed in no un-
certain fashion for the Flying Handicap,
and the result proved the correctness of
his trainer’s judgment. Jungle King did
the pacemaking, and at the home turn
was well clear of St. Elmo, Rex Felt and
Prince. In the straight the last-named
made a fast run and, taking Jungle King s
measure inside the final furlong, won
nicely, though not with much in reserve.
Winnipeg was fourth, and, as he did
better over the last two furlongs than at
any other part, might fare better in his
next race. As Prince looked susceptible
of further improvement in condition, he
will again be worth backing when next
he runs. His previous win this season
was at the A.J.C. spring meeting, when
with 8.11 (minimum 7.0) he took the
mile Final Handicap.
Change of riders from an apprentice
to an experienced jockey enabled Two’s
Company (Parsons) to improve on her
form at Canterbury the previous week.
The betting market showed it was ex-
pected. Aralys made the running from
Rhythmic, but Two’s Company, who
moved into third place nearly half-a-
mile from home, led into the straight,
and then had no difficulty in stalling off
Salivant. Red Pete again ran undiffer-
ently, and Many Ways was near the rear
throughout. This was due to losing a lot
of ground at barrier-rise, when her mouth
was caught in a strand.
Making her first appearance in a race,
Enthuse (Johnson) outpaced Fine Art
and Kingsford in the first two furlongs
of the Nursery Handicap, and was not
troubled to win from unlucky Denton,
who ran past Fine Art and Kingsford in
the straight. Fine Art was fourth, and
Humane and Montano did best of the
remainder. Trained by M. McCarten,
Enthuse is by Harinero from Radiosa,
by Marconigram from Beanbri.
Heavily-backed Bruce Wood was well
served at the start of the first division of
the Highweight Handicap, as was Royal
Result, but Tahmoor led at the half-
mile and round the turn. Then Hauteur
(Maxwell) disposed of him, and won
decisively from Royal Result, with Kim-
bell, who finished strongly, a close third.
Eased slightly when beaten, Bruce Wood
was fourth, and, despite his failure, is
worth following.
In the second division of the High-
weight Martheus (Cook) gave nothing a
chance. Starting from the extreme out-
side he led soon after barrier-rise, the
minor places going to Rylstone and
Brueghelier. Well-backed Valoroi did
not gallop smoothly in the early part,
but, making up leeway in the straight, was
narrowly beaten by Brueghelier for third.
Brumaire had failed so many times
when fancied that, more than anything
else, it was due to McMenamin having
the mount that he started at as short a
price as 6 to 1 for the Trial Stakes.
Badly placed in the early part he even-
tually won comfortably, after Monaro,
Pangold, Peter’s Pence and Bomb had
headed the field entering the straight.
Pangold and Peter’s Pence weakened in
the last furlong, but the run will improve
both. Brumaire cost his present owner
300gns. at auction a few months ago.
Gauntlet made a good bid for an all-
the-way win in the Brighton Handicap,
but, though halfway down the straight
Tel Asur looked like giving him most
trouble, Beau Timide (Cook), eighth at
the turn, was too good a finisher for
both. Beau Timide was well backed on
the strength of his good showing when he
started at a long price, for Tel Asur’s
race the previous week. Haripur did a
little better than recently, and Windbrook
ran fairly, but Chatham’s Choice and
Dick Whittingham were disappointing. A
winner at Randwick at a mile, Beau
Timide is worth following now that he
has again struck form.
* * * *
The lack of really first-class w.f.a.
horses has been a feature of this sea-
son’s racing in Sydney. Yaralla is an
exception, but only up to a mile. In the
spring he won at a mile and a quarter,
but failures at nine and ten furlongs at
the autumn meetings discounted that
form, especially as Katanga and Veiled
Threat, winners on the occasions re-
ferred to, are not up to the standard of
w.f.a. horses of many recent seasons.
Perhaps Yaralla may improve as a stayer,
but that is doubtful. Anyhow, up to a
mile he can be relied on to do further
good service for his owner.
Rimveil, Gold Salute and Dashing
Cavalier fell short of past form, and the
three-year-olds did not shine in the
autumn w.f.a. races. Main Topic was
out of action, but spring form pointed
to him as the best stayer of his age.
Modulation met an ordinary lot in the
A.J.C. St. Leger, and more will have to
be seen of him before his class as a
stayer is definite,
# * * *
Spearfelt received another good adver-
tisement last week when his three-year-
old son The Image acted up to his previ-
ous form at Albion Park (Brisbane) and
won the Doomben Newmarket, for
which he was favorite. High Rank was
second. Gold Force was the only one to
pace it with The Image at any part,
Auction running much below his previ-
ous best, and Young Valais being beaten
some distance from home. His latest
form in Sydney scarcely warranted the
northern trip. The Image’s dam, My
Treasure, is a sister to Hope, being by
Heroic from Rhythona.
* * * *
Maoriland’s tote turnover this season
up to the middle of last month was
£5,922,825 against £5,209,361 in 1941-42.
It is anticipated that the season’s aggre-
gate will be considerably over six mil-
lions. The Auckland Racing Club con-
tributed £1,363,670 for nine days this
season, and gave £50,650 in stakes. As
tote betting has a direct bearing on prize-
money in Maoriland owners over there
can look forward to next season with
pleasurable anticipation.
Miscellaneous
The 15,000 who turned up at Fitzroy
to watch the local side try to down
Essendon got a fast and willing game for
their money. Dominating centre, ruck
and air in the Same Old style, Essendon
was never headed, winning by 9.24 to
7.14 and going to lonely glory at the top
of the competition. Hawthorn, by wallop-
ing Collingwood, 16.14-12.13, and Rich-
mond, by downing Footscray, 10.19-8.9,
managed to stay with Fitzroy in second
place. North Melbourne gave Carlton a
shock, 12,10 to 11.12, and St. Kilda made
a certainty of the wooden spoon, being
licked by South Melbourne, 16.19-11.14.
Titus, of Richmond, played .his 200th
successive game (a record) and his 290th
for the Tigers,
* * * *
Manly v. Eastern Suburbs was Rugby
Union at its best; hard throughout and
in doubt till the last moment. The one
try scored, fruit of a lucky bounce, de-
cided the issue: Manly 6-3. Manly, East,
Randwick and University are leading in
that order; West is fifth four points be-
hind ; the others aren’t in it. Other
matches:
Randwick 16, Parramatta 9; University 13,
St. George 6; West 8, North 3; Drummoyne
11, Gordon 8.
* * * *
Accustomed as he is to giving away
weight, Hockey Bennell found 201 b. too
big a handicap when he met A 1 Walker
at Leichhardt. Making the fight most
of the time, Walker won at least seven
of the 12 rounds, but a substitute referee
declared Bennell the winner. Then
ensued an uproar which reminded old-
timers of the din that rocked the old
Stadium when Bill Squires said Rudy
Unholz had drawn with Johnny Summers.
One Norm Harvey was stacked up
against Jack McNamee at the Stadium.
He lasted four two-minute rounds, and
McNamee, not a stiff puncher, could
have finished him inside a round. Sport!
FOR RANDWICK.
(Before acceptances.)
By “PILOT.”
Trial Handicap: Timken, 1;
White Feather, 2 ; Barrenjoey, 3.
Nursery Handicap: Caspian, 1 ;
Enthuse, 2 ; Annie Laurie, 3.
Three-year-old Handicap: Great
Scot, 1 ; Peter’s Pence, 2 ; Pangold,
3.
Moore Park Handicap: Prince,
1 ; Pinero, 2 ; Beau Timide or Goose
Boy, 3.
July Handicap: Cream Puff, 1 ;
Two’s Company, 2 ; Salivant, 3.
Maroubra Handicap: Valoroi,
1 ; Irish Sea, 2; Bruce Wood or
Hauteur, 3.


Women's Letters
From Melbourne
Sprays of pink blossom and bunches
of Roman hyacinths looking out from
florists’ windows and lucky lapels are
giving the city a foretaste of spring in
spite of grey skies and cold draughts
blowing about the legs. There are, how-
ever, still many hardened pessimists, as
one of the sights of the city is the crowd
that besieges umbrella shops to buy the
few that are doled out each day. The
wine-store and cigarette-shop queues are
quite dwarfed by the umbrella-hunters,
especially on showery days.
It’s a comment on how much brighter
clothes are becoming to be able to say
that the button sellers ip the streets on
Friday didn’t strike the eye particularly,
though they were sporting the vivid tra-
ditional colors of Mittel Europa’s
peasantry. Lasses with heavily-beaded
headdresses even were not so very much
out of the way, as it is so common now
for girls to wear brilliant clips in their
hats or ropes of gold chain round their
necks. The fancy waistcoat idea of the
folk costumes seems to have taken on,
too, as many bright wool check or velvet
ones are to be seen keeping the cold off
under suits and coats.
Most people are finding that their
butter ration is rfiuch less ascetic than they
feared it would be. In the first few weeks
everyone exercised a miserly care over
the precious stuff with such effect that
quite a number found to their horror on
visiting the grocer that they had made
supplies spin out for a fortnight and lost
the use of priceless coupons. Many of
the formerly frugal are now indulging in
a “butter binge” at the end of each
ration week—like pancakes or tea cake
or very buttery toast —so that the wastage
of two whole coupons shan’t happen
again.
Papier-mache enthusiasts are pointing
to new uses for this material. Illus-
tration of first-aid lectures is now added
to a list that already included hospital
ware, trays, basins and so forth. For
first-aid work hollow casts or strap-on
pieces are made to resemble bits of the
human frame and tied on to the “patient”
at demonstrations, and give a very real-
istic effect. The group making these
articles, which gets together under Mrs.
C. E. M. Whyte, has just moved from its
old quarters in Punt-road to new ones in
Glenferrie-road. It invites adherents, as
more helpers are very much needed.
In the world that war conditions have
built up the dressmaker assumes new
power and importance. Would-be clients
throng her doors to sue for her favor,
prepared to book up her every available
minute months ahead. The “odd-size”
damsel and the woman of mature years
are hard hit by the shortage of dress-
makers, the scarcity of coupons and the
lessening of quality and variety of
materials available.
Those who arrange hospitality for ser-
vice men on leave are asking for more
offers of private hospitality, as there has
been a tendency to slacken off on the part
of many erstwhile helpful people who are
finding war jobs as much as they are able
to cope with. Mrs. Tony Riddell, who
holds the fort at the A.C.F. Hospitality
Depot, says that the demand for private
entertainment is extraordinarily great.
At the same depot Allied Red Cross
workers are on hand to deal with their
countrymen’s wants, as it is felt that they
best understand folk of their own nation-
ality.
The Allies’ Appeal Drive wound up
with a Town Hall ball on Tuesday under
Lord Mayoral auspices. The Angliss lady
took the helm for this do in her usual
competent way, aided by a committee of
representatives of fighting Allies.* Final
receipts for the drive have not been totted
up yet, but the general view among those
interested is that a very good sum will
result. Ball tickets sold at 10s. a head
and brought a crowd to the Town Hall.
Shades of the past were L.voked when
the Fighting French group celebrated
France’s National Day, July 14, anniver-
sary of the storming of the Bastille.
Jollity took the form of a cocktail party
at Menzies. Topic on everyone’s lips was
the landing in Sicily, and a feature of the
celebration was the presence as guests of
honor of Allied officers. The room was
decked in varying shades of greenery—
very attractive and a change from masses
of flowers.
An attractive array of Czech painting
and handcraft was shown in the Czech
Exhibition on Allies’ Day. Items in-
cluded pictures in the Dora style illus-
trating rustic fairy tales, with the Pied
Piper, leading his hoard of rats, among
them. Antique peasant lace was every-
where, and particularly noticeable were
the unusual cloths of petit-point worked
on a f| ne j ace background. Visitors to
h exhibitjo „ could have their i ike nesses
limned while they waited by a young
Czech artist Ann 4 arie House, a student
under John Rowell. She produced a very
ffi ; water-color sketch in a few
minutes while a sitter glanced through
, .. , . ~
1
Nothing that a bride-to-be or just-
married damsel might want to learn is
being left out of the series of lectures
and classes that the Y.W.C.A. is running.
A girl must be either married or on the
of it before she can take art in
the s cla which indude such e | ementa | s
as cooking and dressmaking, as well as
what Cross lad described on opening
d as .. fril]s £ riUs include learning
, be an t host with speech-
training and lessons in walking and
posture, to give confidence in meeting
, ’ Bri a ge . playing is inc | ude d, as
£ rga P nisers recognise that a girl who
into a circle which enjo b ys it win
SX"
each subjeC ‘- includ ‘"S Miss Emily Noble,
advice on interior decorating should be
a boon to the girl who has to plan her
own furnishing with little knowledge or
experience.
Recently posted to the rank of flight-
-officer?i cer? Greta Harrison, here pictured,
grieved the ambition of so many of this
c hy’ s young service women, and was sent
north some months ago. Daughter of
Group-Captain and Mrs. Eric Harrison,
she trained at the Emily Macpherson
Domestic Economy College after leaving
St. Michael’s G.S. and entered the
W.A.A.A.F. as a mess steward A.C.W.
Her domestic-economy training has
enabled her to deal with problems of
commissariat, and she had some experi-
ence at a city W.A.A.A.F. station before
going further afield. Before joining the
W.A.A.A.F. she was known to visiting
airmen as one of the hostesses of the Air
Force House staff.
A blessing to the harassed housewife
nowadays is the new issue of
books from England, where food
problems are many and acute. These
have been compiled by gourmets who
know how to make the best of
everything, in collaboration with
dietitians who know what must be
eaten to preserve health. Recipes fea-
ture how to make all the usual peace-time
dishes with substitutes and mock-what-
have-yous for these sterner times.
“Carmen,” put on by the A.B.C. and
Philarmonic Society on Saturday, brought
an overflowing crowd to the Town Hall.
So evidently opera in undress, without
costumes or scenery, still has drawing-
power. St. Paul’s choristers were an un-
usual addition to the Phil, chorus,
the symphony orchestra of course sup-
plying the instrumental side, even to the
rattle of castanets. One of the difficulties
of “Carmen” in mufti is that, lovely
though the music is, it has associations
which make it seem strangely incon-
gruous with a white-robed and stiff-
shirted chorus.
The new A.B.C. rule that audiences at
symphony concerts must be seated by
eight instead of 8.15 will probably result
in chronic latecomers having to cool
their heels outside the auditorium doors
while the first item on the programme is
played. The change in starting time is a
good move because it will enable the con-
certs to wind up earlier. Now that the
population is hard at it on war work, in
or out of uniform or domestically, late
nights are not to be encouraged.
From Sydney
Sydneyites are reminded occasionally
that the casements of their continent open
on to gleaming seas and smaller
isles of beauty. Such an occasion
was last week’s gathering of Pacific
Islanders in History House. The
guests were from Ocean Island,
Nauru, New Guinea and other far-flung
corners of the South Seas. They listened
with interest to the speech of Dr. lan
Clunies Ross when he talked of the prob-
lems of the Pacific when Peace once more
dwells thereon. He predicts that China
will then be one of our great wool mar-
kets. Already its inhabitants have begun
to realise the comfort of a touch of wool
next the skin. President of the society
Alfred Stephen was in the chair. Host-
esses for the night were Mrs. I. H. Mere-
dith, Mrs. Alfred Page and Mrs. Marie
Irvine. The cosy blue lounge of History
House was the setting for the party.
When the heroic history of China’s
struggle with her enemy is told it will
take many volumes. But probably there
would never be enough paper in the
world to tell of the acts of sacrifice of
China’s sons and daughters to keep the
protective ’plane in the air, to supply life’s
necessities to the striken. A patriot in
Sydney presented to the committee of the
China Day Appeal piles of exquisite
hand-worked linen napery and some rare
pieces of jade to be exhibited and then
sold for the appeal. These were on view
in the Town Hall on Monday and yester-
day, and this morning the remaining
treasures, if any, are being sold by
auction. There was a guard of honor of
attractive daughters of China for the
Governor, who opened the exhibition,
and Lady Wakehurst.
The girls and boys of the A.B.C. are
buzzing about trying to make a reality
of an idea they have been nursing for
some time. It is to buy a bus for an
Australian military hospital. Because
they think that convalescing even in the
most pleasant surroundings can become
tedious, the A.B.C. staff want the patients
to have their own transport for picnics
and other bushland outings. The bus
will cost almost £lOOO, but a series of
eight gala balls at the Town Hall is ex-
pected to bring that, and more, into the
fund. Peggy Bissett, of this photograph,
heads the subcommittee running the gala
balls. It was Peggy who last year man-
aged the A.B.C.’s two masquerade balls
which raised £BOO for the same military
hospital. The date of the first festive
night is July 23, and Peggy reminds that
there’s a big concession on tickets for ser-
vice men and women.
With J. H. Coleman doing the publicity
and Leith Stevens arranging the pro-
gramme, “American Rhapsody” on
August 6 is going to inject new blood
into the Sydney Jown Hall’s musical
arteries. For so long the shrine of the
classic and the traditional, her stage on
that night will pulsate with a concert of
modern American music. The composers
will be Grofe (his “Grand Canyon”
suite), Gershwin (“Rhapsody in Blue”
and numbers from “Porgy and Bess”),
Morton-Gould, Leith Stevens, Griselle
and Van Cleve. Most of the music is
quite new to Sydney, and had to be flown
from the U.S.A.—not in printed form,
but in photographic film. That weighed
2oz. as against the 551 b. of music print.
The playing of a record of Stevens’s
“American Rhapsody” was a pleasing
interlude in the business of the first meet-
ing called by America’s Consul-General
Ely Palmer’s wife. This was in the con-
sular home on the cliff-like heights of
Wyuna-road, Point Piper. They say
that Tim Healy’s eloquence could put a
spire on every church in Ireland. Well,
music is going to put a new kitchen into
the American Centra in Phillip-street.
Bigger and better hamburgers are the
aim of the centre, and it is felt that
rhapsodies can do the trick. The meeting
was a great success. Sage advice was
given by the experienced Mrs. Bertie
Kelly and Elizabeth Plummer. Strella
Wilson will be snatched for two nights
from her J. C. Williamson show and
flown to Sydney for the occasion. Harold
Williams is the only other singer. Isa-
dora Goodman will be the solo pianist.
The A.B.C. orchestra, plus 30 more
players, is already tuning up.
Leith Stevens, now attached to the
U.S. Office of War Information in
Sydney, who will conduct the concert,
has already made a name as a composer
and conductor in his own country. He
has written a great deal of music for the
movies and has a wide radio audience.
At the age of 17 he was accompanist and
supporting artist to famed contralto
Schumann-Heink on a two years’ tour of
America.
The brightest thing in last week's
presentation of “Twelfth Night” was the
flouncing fuchsia skirt of serving-woman
Maria (Marion Johns). The sets
were striking, and had the spacious-
ness of Shakspeare’s days. The size of
the room in which Sir Toby and his
friend Aguecheek frolic caused involun-
tary stretching of flat-constricted muscles
among members of the audience. The
comedy was produced by John Alden in
the interests of schoolgirls and -boys—
“ Twelfth Night” being one of the classics
of the school year. Minister for Educa-
tion Clive Evatt gave his patronage, and
Austral-American Productions, responsible
for the performance, must have been
pleased with the size of the audiences.
The stage manager was a woman—Gwen
Oatley.
Last Monday night members of the
Australian-American Movement made
merry in the conference room of the
Rural Bank. The guest speaker of the
night was Colonel Landes, in whose
tongue seems to flow some of the elo-
quence of Daniel Webster himself. In
private life Colonel Landes is a barrister,
so his gift of language has, no doubt,
been polished by experience. President
E. K. White was in the chair. Knight
Robert Garran was the respondent.
Music and supper followed the speeches.
The parish hall of St. Peter’s (C. of E.)
in Watson’s Bay has been turned into a
cosy canteen for service men. It was
declared open last week by Admiral
Feakes ; but really it has been doing its
good work for about a month. Padre
Bradley, rector of St. Peter’s, served dur-
ing the 1914-18 scrap, and he and his
parishioners are delighted to supply this
spot of comfort to the warriors of today.
Here good meals will be served, and here,
too, the men will be able to have showers
or even find a corner where letters can
be written. The former stage of the
hall is now an up-to-date kitchen. Arch-
bishop Mowll and his wife were at the
opening. Mrs. Bradley and treasurer and
secretary Neva Wilson are important
people in the canteen’s activities.
Eric Linklater’s The Raft is one of
the books talked of by women. At first
that may seem strange, for of romance
in the usual way there is none. But
women like it. They like the insistence
of the stoker on the good home his wife
made for him in their two rooms in a
back street. He says, rebutting the wire-
less operator (one of his six companions
on the raft), “My wife always kept them
clean and tidy, and the child was well
dressed, too.” And again: “I believe in
my wife and child. She is a good woman,
honest and laughing and kind, and the
child is well cared for. I believe in the
people in our street. They were good to
us when I was out of work.” To women
that simple credo is like an unshakable
foundation for the building and the con-
tinuance of home life.
Fashion, in spite of war-time clothes
regulations, manages still to have a saucy
look about it. Styles are useful, for so
many women out of uniform are busy at
canteen and comforts fund, and on the
innumerable committees that keep guard
over the welfare of the services and war
workers. The jacket suit seems to be
the ahswer to all demands for day wear.
What could be more alert-looking for the
morning meeting than a brown-and-white
or black-and-white check suit, the jacket
hipbone length, the skirt box-pleated in
front? Jackets have trig lapels, four
buttons and pockets. If the suit is black
and white, black buttons ; if brown and
white, brown buttons. A wide, straight-
brimmed straw hat is the right finish.
One of the greatest morale-lifters seen
last week was a daytime rig in the for-
ever smart black and white. The skirt was
of thickish silk (artificial, of course) in
black. The little jacket, just past the
waistline, was in white. This was fast-
ened by three large black braided buttons.
Worn with it was a tiny hat, very neat,
whipped up in straw and silk. It should
be noted that many hats no longer
clamp themselves over one eye. They
sit straight and serene, balanced above
both eyebrows evenly.


■:
wm
y-vMK
r /
f /
jostc
.y
• - w
■/
/
Mi
mmm
mmm
am
i\ rre 3 " y |
:•;• ■:-..
i*
i m
r ” I «h* jfcw If
: -
Wi V
Lay the foundations
0 # #
ft
'z&m
m 2
V
Q>
%
•-■ ;-
V
Zin
Csfe>so
I
for
YOUR
POST WAR HOME
SET SAVINGS ASIDE FOR SPENDING a
IN THE PEACEFUL POST-WAR YEARS K
You can’t build now . . . and there’s a limit
to the remodelling you can do. There’s also
a limit to the amount of Cane-ite you can
buy. But there’s nothing to stop you plan-
ning for the time when you can build and
renovate and modernize with all the Cane-ite
you need. Cane-ite, as you know, is the
perfect insulating board, ideal for lining
walls and ceilings.
c
INSULATING BOARD
HE COLONIAL SUGAR REFINING CO.* LTD. (Building Materials Division)
Marketing
ANE-ITE • MASONITE • C.S.R. SLAG-WOOL • PLASTER PRODUCTS
MEDICAL AND DENTAL PLASTERS
INVEST YOUR SA VINOS IN WAR BONDS
CA 12-43
SMOKE-OH!
“Woman, over 45, offered 4 hours' light clean-
ing, bachelor, wash Tuesday preferred.”
— “Gt. Northern” (Sydney').
Apparently he hasn’t a loofah.
-I- 4* 4* 4*
“Offered by Dutch auction for the Lord
Mayor's R.A.N. Relief Fund at Newmarket, a
prime bullock, not pedigreed, realised the record
sum of £1750. — Melbourne “Sun.”
Lacking a pedigree it would, no doubt,
be in poor demand for breeding pur-
poses.
4* 4* 4*
“The unhappy thief became frantic, but lived
to face his punishment despite eight attempts
at suicide.” — Story.
Evidently a cat-burglar.
4* 4 1 4* 4*
“Money is the lubricant that keeps the wheels
of business running, that oils the hands of the
clock of industry.”— Political broadcast.
It has also been used to grease palms.
Pocket Edition.
“Women, contrary to belief, can be briefer
than men in expressing themselves.”
—Psychology note.
True enough. Knew a fellow who
came back from active service. Enthusi-
astically he said to his girl, who had a
job: “Now, how much time can we
spend together?” Womanlike, to be
brief, she said “You mean, dear, how
much can we spend together?”
Yair.
4- 4* -I* »I«
“Doctors do well in winter. People pay
their accounts for one thing.”— “Sun.”
They not only cough and go up to the
doctor, but they go to the doctor and
cough-up.
Over the Fence.
“Because of the firewood shortage some Bris-
bane families have been burning furniture and
household fittings.”— “Daily Telegraph.”
That’s what the low individual next
door has been doing. I have often seen
him chopping up his landlord’s furniture.
Of course, it was none of my business ;
but when I got up the other morning,
after a week in bed with ’flu, and found
that the entire fence between our cottages
had disappeared, 1 just boiled over. I
said such a thing was only to be expected
of a Nazi vandal. Gosh, I did abuse
him.
And no wonder. I was counting on
getting a few palings when my own stock
of firewood ran out.
T. W. N.
4* 4* 4 1 *l*
“I have a very long nose, which makes me
feel self-conscious and miserable.”
Correspondent in woman’s paper.
“Her husband believed the letters he found
in her handbag had been written by the
baker.” — Divorce item.
They were in floury language.
4* 4* 4*
“Hugging the radiator or fire will bring red
and purplish-looking blotches to your legs.”
—Woman’s paper.
But it will remove superfluous hairs
from your chest and arms.
4* 4* 4* 4*
“A fashionable ladies’ hairdresser uses Aus-
tralian red wine for dressing women’s hair.”
—Magazine item.
It isn’t the first time wine has gone to
their heads, either.
4* 4 1 4* 4*
“Incidentally, mother and son share the same
auburn hair.” — Gossip writer.
First up best dressed, eh?
4* 4* 4* 4>
If only these perpetrators of hot swing
could be knocked cold!
Request.
Sing me to slumber, O beautiful maiden,
Holding me here in a rnaryelloirs
trance.
Sing me to slumber in tones that are
laden
With passionate yearning and dreams
of romance !
Grant me the joy I am earnestly seek-
ing ;
Ah, my beloved , deny me it not —
For when yon are singing it keeps you
from speaking,
And all that you speak of is blithering
rot!
T. W. NATHAN.
Domestic Economy.
“It is clothing costs rather than food prices
which harass the average family man these
days.”— Woman’s paper.
To guard this single blessedness I plan,
No girl shall share my life —
’ Tis cheaper to maintain the inner man
Than keep the outer wife!
P. M.
She had one thing to grieve about;
For, with an elongated snout.
She found that she could not he gay
When kissed —her nose got in the way.
L. R. P.
Ingratitude.
“U.S. forces in Alaska are cautioned against
taking advantage of the hospitable Eskimo
custom of lending wives.” — “Sunday Telegraph ”
A co-respondent in the home
Is quite acceptable at Nome,
And what would be undoubtedly
A major social gaucherie
In Minnesota or Nebraska
Is mere politeness in Alaska.
And no recourse to Judge and jury,
No transports of conjugal fury
Attend this circumstance, although
Perhaps the simple Eskimo
Will cut up just as rough to find
His well-meant offering declined.
P. M. L.
As We Expect to Get It Shortly from
A.B.C.
“Here is the news:—
“The prize for the Presbyterian Elderly
Gentlewomen’s Tatting Competition has
been awarded to Mrs. Belinda Whump,
whose entry was a design in a willow
pattern with a moss-stitch edging. In
the Koorsk bulge the Nazis claim they
are hurling men and armor in a ceaseless
stream through a gap in the Russian de-
fences. Mrs. Whump, who is a brilliant
all-round tatter, said yesterday that
tatting was truly one of the arts of peace.
If tatting had been the only subject
allowed at military colleges throughout
Germany over the past 20 years, Mrs.
Whump believes, the war might not have
occurred. The Moscow midnight com-
munique makes no mention of the Ger-
man claim on the Koorsk sector, but
merely states that there was scattered
patrol activity in the Kerch Peninsula.
“Swede turnips reached a new record
ceiling at the markets yesterday. The
Allied invasion of the Soft Underbelly of
the Axis is proceeding satisfactorily. The
Minister for Agriculture said the present
high vegetable prices would shortly be
relieved by a price ceiling. General Eisen-
hower, after an inspection of various
fighting units yesterday, expressed satis-
faction at the way the campaign was pro-
gressing. At Erskineville yesterday a
three-year-old child accidentally swal-
lowed a tea-strainer. According to Rome
Radio, Hitler has appointed Field-Mar-
shal Thor von Spittunpollisch as Axis
commander in a desperate attempt to
stem the Allied tide in the Mediterranean,
Only prompt action by his mother in
kicking him in the stomach saved the
toddler from serious consequences. The
tea-strainer was eventually recovered.
The child is progressing favorably. Last
night, in the most highly concentrated
raid of , the war ’ the RAF - dropped 2500
™ ns bombs in twenty minutes on
1 ™ l ,
Controller of Cats Meat an-
Bounces that regulations now promulgated
make it an offence to give cat’s meal
to a dog. Munich defences were strong
but were saturated as the raid progressed,
At football training last night Dick
be rum buster, a prominent inter-State
pla-Y er > fell down and trod on his navel,
Military circles in London expect big
happenings soon m the Balkans Scrum-
buster is being X-rayed today. One Lan-
caster got back from the big raid on
Munich with omy one engine f unction-
m §* Regulations under which dog s meat
ma T be obtained will be announced to-
morrow. General Montgomery s men are
expected to meet with increasing oppo-
10n before reaching the open plains.
F b £ question of interchange of meat
where both ciogs and cats are kept in
one household will be taken up next
month with the Dog s Meat Controller, the
?. on ! r P l er Fat s Meat has announced,
Stockholm Radio reports that Field-Mar-
shal von Spittunpollisch is preparing a
B reat counter-offensive. There will be a
kindergarten concert at Bexley next ween
m which SOI ? e talented pupils will put on.
a cantata ; the concert will be broadcast
Fud J 53^ 1 , 011 , 3 , 18 , ar ? ■ ° otama ble m the
Weekly, which also contains a
brilliant article on Moscow mausoleums
by Gunther Schosschenwincker. Over
500 acres of the centre of the city, in-
eluding the famous Brown House, was
reduced to rubble,
“That is the end of the botched-up
news.”
BO.


THE OTHER FELLOW'S MIND
The contributor placed first is paid
per line; all others 2ld. per line.
For Malarial Convalescents
I suggest that Kosciusko Hotel and
C harlotte Pass Chalet should be used as
convalescent homes for personnel of the
A.I.F. with malaria and other tropical
diseases.
1 have had experience in Papua and
New Guinea, and during the 1914-18 war
in Palestine and Jordan Valley, where I
got malaria in a bad form. I have had
it in my system since 1911.
In 1938 I gave up active work in N.G.
and selected .1500 acres with a frontage
to the Snowy River. This area has a
dry, cold climate and is free of mos-
quitoes. Before 1938 I used to have
doses of fever that made me unconscious
for one to three days, and my spleen was
four times its normal size, as recorded by
X-rays. During the past five years the
malarial attacks have lessened to such a
degree that 1 hardly know that 1 have
had malaria badly, and last year my
doctor informed me that my spleen was
normal. I never felt better in my life,
and I am now 60.
T consider this result justifies my sug-
gestion. To my mind there are four im-
portant factors that help to bring a
malarial patient back to normal: (1)
altitude ; (2) cold, dry atmosphere ; (3)
fresh meat, vegetables, cream, milk, eggs,
butter, etc. ; (4) outside work or exer-
cise, which makes one ready to enjoy
meals.
The hotel and the chalet have not been
used for two years, and are modern in
construction and furnishing. Altera
Merges (N.S.W.).
Returned' Soldiers
The attitude of the Federal Govern-
ment to returned soldiers seems to be
based on conceptions of the last war.
It is inexplicable as applied to this one.
Then we were fighting in remote parts
of the world. Now we are fighting from
our own shores.
We have recalled our forces from
other theatres of war because they are
needed here. We have recalled our fighter
and bomber pilots and crews. In the
case of the Spitfires we have brought
back units, including trained and efficient
ground staff. It is in their case that the
anomaly of the situation becomes
clearest.
The members of those units are
all “returned” men, and as such are en-
titled to overseas chevrons now and to
preferential treatment when the show is
over. The men who are posted to Dar-
win as replacements will return after 12
months or more of tropical service, hav-
ing done precisely the same work, but
with no “returned” status. True, “re-
turned” men will include air crews who
have “engaged in operational flights to
seaward, but what of the ground staffs
Who service those aircraft, and without
whom the operational flights could not
have been made? It appears that they
are to remain unrecognised.
Does this mean that “preference to re-
turned soldiers” will apply only to air
crews and not to ground staff? Or will
h apply only to those men who have
been fortunate enough to be posted to
operational units and not to those who
have given several years of painstaking
Work on training schools? Such distinc-
tions are extremely invidious. It is to
be hoped that the Government does not
mean what it appears to mean.-SKY
Pilot (Q.).
tensions and Rank
Like “Mac Fergus” (B. 23/6/’43) few
Australians will support the idea of dif-
ferentiation in rates of war pensions be-
tween officers and men. But his reason-
ffig is based on wrong premises, and it is
time some too-prevalent ideas about
officers’ commissions were dispelled.
The old A.I.F. commission with the
A'ord “Temporary” stamped across the
Corner was the King’s Commission in his
Majesty’s Land Forces, but all officers of
me A.M.F. held the commission of the
Liovernor-General as well, which was not
temporary. And A.I.F. officers who held
temporary King’s commissions only were
Stven A.M.F. commissions after the war
a nd placed on the active or unattached
hst, reserve of officers or retired list, as
appropriate.
Thousands were transferred from re-
vive to active list to serve again in this
There was no need to commission
them afresh, as they had been officers ever
since. It is therefore true even in Aus-
tralia that there is rank permanently sub-
sisting.—W. E. C. (Tas.).
Women After the War
In the discussion of ways and means
to bring about a new order, and a job
for everyone who wants one, with peace,
plenty and prosperity for all, considera-
tion might be given to the question of
women in employment.
After the last war it was hoped they
would get married and solve the problem
in part, business expansion taking care
of the rest. After this war they will have
a much greater hold on employment, and
large numbers will be disinclined to ex-
change high wages for housework. Em-
ployers, with an eye on taxation, the
wages-bill and dividends, will insist they
are a necessity if business is to continue.
Let it be enacted now that when
hostilities cease equal pay for the sexes
is to rule. Then the employer, knowing
what he has to face, can please himself
whom he employs and show how far he
is willing to lend a hand in the great
problem of finding jobs after the war, —
C. H. Regelsen, A.I.C.A. (S.A.).
“Put me in the tanks, mister. I Work best sittin' down!"
Handicaps on Emigration
All seem to agree that migration to
this country should be encouraged after
the war, but we all know that British
refugees have received a far from
friendly welcome.
Compare the sympathy and hospitality
extended to Allied nationals in Britain.
The collapse of France brought the Ger-
mans to within 24 miles of Britain’s
shores, but French refugees were received
as allies who, having suffered a terrible
misfortune, must be helped.
Britons arriving in Australia after the
fall of Malaya were made to feel respon-
sible for that catastrophe, and forced to
listen to most unjust criticisms of Britain
and everything British. Yet now Aus-
tralian leaders are demanding large-scale
British immigration after the war.
Until Australians abandon their extra-
ordinary racial prejudices they cannot
expect cultured Europeans to come here.
When supposedly-educated Australians
speak of Southern Europeans as “in-
ferior” and even “colored,” one is forced
to conclude that education in this country
does not include the history and culture
of other races. The W.A.A.A.F. re-
cruits who could not answer the ques-
tion “Who were Massine, Van Gogh and
Toscanini?” would probably have been
equally baffled by “Who were Dante,
Chopin, Leonardo da Vinci, Dvorak and
Copernicus?” It is also amazing to hear
Swiss and Austrians classed as Germans.
As for Asiatics, to many Australians
they are all just “blacks,” without dis-
tinction.
It is for Australians to decide whether
they are to remain a nation of seven
million, constantly menaced by the teem-
ing populations of Asia, or are to follow
the example of the U.S.A. and open their
doors to settlers from every European
country.—loo% British (W.A.).
A Maoriland Example
An experiment that might be studied
with advantage by post-war planners
interested in closer settlement is that
of the Waikato Land Settlement
Society (M.L.). This was formed in the
middle of the Great Depression. A
nucleus fund of £27,000 was collected
and 8000 acres of land described as “de-
preciated” was bought cheap. This land
was brought into production by co-
operative methods; subsequently sub-
divided. The settlers were able to make
a living and build homes, and recently a
school was provided for their children.
The whole scheme is on a businesslike
footing, with land mortgages on a table
basis and other advances secured by
stock mortgages. The founder, D. V.
Bryant, laid it down that the tenure must
be restricted so that there could be no
inducement to improve a place merely
for the purpose of selling—no speculation
in land values. If there are transfers the
society fixes the price on a computation,
of productive value, plus improvements,
minus depreciation.
When Bryant relinquished administra-
tive duties because of failing health, it
was decided to hand the whole scheme
over to the Government for administra-
tion, and the Lands Department has
accepted the responsibility, agreeing to
abide by the society’s rules. — Avon
(MX.).
Decentralisation
With politicians awaking at last to the
need for decentralisation to offset the
increasing drift to the cities the time
might be opportune for an increase in the
number of States.
Queensland has had for years a work-
able division into northern, central and
southern districts, with Townsville, Rock-
hampton and Brisbane as the respective
leading cities. Measures to proclaim
these districts as separate States and to
add to their number, say the Northern
Rivers district of N.S.W. and the area
between the Murray and the Murrum-
bidgee, might now be brought forward.
With Commonwealth control of finance
and an equitable distribution by it among
these States there is no reason why such
a project should not succeed.
“Nation-minded” States will realise
that such a carving-up is inevitable for
progress, and place no barriers to the
sane fixing of new State boundaries. —
Jayef (Vic.).
Shortage of Houses
Twenty-seven years in the real estate
business have convinced me that many
reforms are needed in providing homes
for the citizens of Australia.
In the first place, munition, food,
clothing and other factories should have
railway stations built within 75 or 100
yards of their entrances, and trains to
and from these factories should run ex-
press to a stated zone, so that workers
may obviate the necessity for extremely
early rising. Changes between tram, bus
and train foster exhaustion, irritability,
loss of efficiency and liability to accident.
Groups of modern flats should be built
in districts close to the centres of cities
or places of employment, because the
tempo of modern life does not allow
persons employed in gaining a livelihood
time or energy to cultivate and tend
large gardens or household areas. Scores
of my tenants have stated their inability
to clear up gardens and yards in locali-
ties where pragmatic city fathers insisted
on banning small areas.
Citizens whose inclinations, abilities
and incomes allow them to enjoy large
areas can live in the country or in outer
suburbs, thus relieving the congestion
caused by factory, warehouse and office
employees. Health of citizens could be
safeguarded by greater attention to the
x*eservation and preservation of park
lands adjoining city residential areas. —
Pelm (Vic.).
Education
Examining conditions in the world
today it is not difficult to see that the
organisation by which countries are
thrown into war is far stronger than that
organisation which provides for post-war
reconstruction and a lasting peace. We
have progressed rapidly in the sphere of
machinery, chemistry, transport, etc., but
we have not yet evolved a system of gov-
ernment capable of controlling these
forces. We have produced scientists
before statesmen.
One of the causes of this is the manner
in which science has captured the public
imagination. This has had consequent
effect upon child education: for many
years scientific thought has been encour-
aged in our schools to a far greater ex-
tent than political or ethical. Not until
a youth reaches university standard is
scope given for a study of academic sub-
jects, and by that time his ideas have more
or less been formulated for him by his
schoolteachers; so that a satisfactorily
objective study is difficult because of the
persistence of old ideas.
Let us then be resolved upon a com-
plete reorganisation of our education sys-
tem on the broad lines suggested—less
emphasis upon science and more on free
thought and discussion. One can safely
say that science can be left where it is
for the next 50 years without the world
suffering unduly in order to give our
politics the opportunity for some much-
needed progress.—D. F. R. (N.T.).
Sex-education
The question of sex-education has been
getting an airing in S.A., and it has been
shown that even those who advocate such
training have a very limited view of its
ultimate possibilities. Perhaps a lot of
the obscurity is caused by the use of the
word “sex,” a term commonly used to
denote four different problems: biologi-
cal, social in a general sense, social in
the restricted moral sense and psycho-
logical.
It seems that most reformers aim at
eliminating pruriency and immorality by
giving biological lectures to children.
Though such lectures might have pre-
ventive effects against pruriency, it does
not follow that they would counter im-
morality.
The male of the species presents three
social aspects: the man who is prurient,
the man who has learned to regard
women generally as a sort of convenience
and the married man who knows very
little about women. Sex lectures to
children can do nothing for the last two-
groups.
If the school biological lessons were to
be followed in adult life by public lee
tures in the art of marriage the last class
might be minimised, and by the continu
ance of these lectures and their stressing
of human interrelationship, spiritual as
well as physical, something might be done
to educate the second and at present very
large group.
Only the ABC of the problem can
be tackled in the schoolroom. —D. R. H.
(S.A.).
The Australian Song-writer
“An Australian Mother” (B. 12/5/’43)
interested me. I, too, say “give us our
own songs.” But how can we get the
majority of Australians to feel that way?
Is it not a fact that with music, poetry
and other forms of literature the “im-
ported article” always takes pride of
place? lam a lyric-writer, pianist and
composer, and one of many who have
proved that to be correct.
Publishing houses do not want to
push the line for Australian songs whilst
they are making so much from overseas
stuff. How then can an Australian com-
position ever see daylight when sub-
merged in the background of windows
full of the imported music?
Whilst in Sydney I had an introduction
to one of the leading lyric and music
arrangers in Australia. He told me that
it did not matter how good the work
it was a heartbreaking fact that an Aus-
tralian in Australia had no chance. He
said he had a musical composition pub-
lished in Australia some years ago, but
enthusiasm to push and advertise the line
was noticeably lacking. A few years later
he went to the U.S.A. and showed a copy
of the published composition. The pub-
lisher was so taken with it that he altered
the words slightly in order to suit an
American setting, left the music exactly
as it was and published it under another
title. It turned out to be one of this
composer’s best sellers. It was sent out
to Australia as an American publication
and it sold in thousands. — Another
Australian Mother (Vic.).


There Is No Substitute
for QUALITY
DOWN through the centuries the Imperial Spirit
has advanced with ever-increasing strength,
inspiring the pioneer and transforming the wilderness.
As an all-Australian link in the Imperial chain of
industrial achievement stands the wonderful success of
WILLIAM ARNOTT PTY., LIMITED. An out-
standing success, too, based on the highest standards of
integrity and efficiency .. . National standards, unaltered
by time or distance.
It is therefore an inspiring thought to Australians that
the rich yield of their own fertile countryside can be
converted into a perfect product with a world-wide
demand, and that the process of manufacture is
unsurpassed in efficiency and hygiene.
; mm.
m ' ■
.... - *
a» 'a
i*m 1 -- • *
’h,<>
'*tmgr
•mJ*.
'i: >»—BW sB•'tl'. .- .. -
*WK a!
.
r * -<■; ■ ■ ■•*.-
?..*•, «£»•.;’« *“• , „ V,. ■•'■■■• »>..
/.i
•*«
* .
ifs
4Wi f <- *% -v„ ’ ,'■ . >*f
IPu ‘
i <> % i
■
aft
MRH
»>
I - It,’
*-•' v c | «
N
i<,
Arnolts Facror/ * * "
af Homebush. New South Wales
cmFc
FAMOUS
1
Lead t» Defend
It is better to plan victories than have
post-mortems on defeat buy War Savings
Certificates and National Savings Bonds.
ALWAYS ASK YOUR GROCER FOR ARNOTTS "THEY ARE BETTER
