

ţ
ť
The Bulletin
“The Bulletin,” Voi. 64.—N0. 3282
Wednesday, January 6, 1943
Price 6dL
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.
Seppelts
RIPON CATHEDRAL.
THAT “great sprawling county of Yorkshire” with
its east, west and north Ridings, besides the
Ainsty, or Liberty of the City of York, is regarded
by many as the most interesting of all the divisions
of England. Whether agreement is expressed with this
opinion it will not be gainsaid the county, historically
and ecclesiastically regarded, will “hold its own with
the best of them.” Gloucestershire, of old, was famous
for the number of its religious establishments, whence
arose the saying “as sure as God’s in Gloucestershire.
But Yorkshire in this respect was equally famed. In
the great plain of York is the Minster, with probably
an older and wider reputation than any other English
cathedral, and, one might say, “in the locality”
is Beverley Minster, next in rank to York Minster
among the ecclesiastical edifices of the county, one
of its three religious centres, the others being York
and Ripon. Then there are those exquisite ruins of
Bolton Priory and Fountains Abbey, memorials to the
piety of long-passed-away ancestors. Ripon Cathedra)
has features of peculiar interest apart from its archi-
tectural merits. It is a very young yet, paradoxically,
a very old Cathedral church, as the diocese now bear-
ing its name and comprising most of the West-Riding
and part of the North-Riding was created as recently
as 1836. But the origin of this superb edifice goes
back to 661 when a monastery was built and its
church became in 678 the seat of a bishopric, subse-
quently united with York. Hence its connection with
divine worship has every claim to antiquity. The
church, one of the noblest in England, is a cuneiform
structure with two square towers each 110 feet high,
and 226 feet long from east to west, while the length
of the transept is 132 feet. It may be well to point out
that the present building was founded on the ruins of
St. Wilfred’s Abbey, of which nothing but the Crypt,
called St. Wilfred’s Needle, remains, and was begun
by Archbishop Roger (1154-81). The western front
and towers were the work of Archbishop Gray
(1215-55). Under the direction of Sir Gilbert Scott,
the whole building between 1862 and 1876 underwent
renovation at a cost of over £40,000. It contains many
curious and interesting monuments. Of the genesis of
Ripon nothing is definitely known, the nearest surmises
to what may be the correct record is that it is either
of British or Roman origin.


Learn 1
Story
Writing
at HOME
This Book FREE to YOU!
STOTT’S CORRESPONDENCE COLLEGE,
100 Russell Street, Melbourne.
Please send, without obligation, your Hew Free
Booklet, explaining how to Write for Profit, a*
advertised in the Sydney “Bulletin. ’
My Name
My Address
S.B. 243
The Red Page
SONG OF NEW GUINEA.
It’s a curious thought—and an indi-
cation of the extent to which Australia
had neglected its national responsibili-
ties in the neighboring islands until the
Jap war forced us into awareness —that
it has been far easier for soldier poets
to write about the distant Middle East
than it is for them now adequately to
describe their reactions to New Guinea
or even to Australia’s own North.
Although there was much debunking of
the alleged “glamor” of the desert, much
cursing of heat, dust, sand, flies, wogs
and army stew, there was no impression
that the A.I.F. had been greatly surprised
by what it encountered ; it met nothing
utterly new or utterly strange: Austra-
lians had fought before in the Middle
East,
The A.I.F. was, in fact, plunged into
tradition: into its own military tradition,
and into the richest historical and re-
ligious traditions of civilisation. They
walked where the prophets had walked ;
they fought where the Romans had
fought; in Greece they rubbed shoulders
with the ghosts of gods and heroes. The
themes for poetry, and the traditional
images, lay ready to their hands.
“Salaam,” by Flying-Officer J. A. Hen-
derson, is a typical poem of the Middle
East, giving the impression, certainly,
that this war is a new and profound
experience to the Australians abroad, but
nonetheless steeped in tradition, convey-
ing a strong sense of the long days
that man has lived upon the earth and of
the long days to come:
Bring no flags the time that we return;
Talk no empty hero stuff, but pray
The simple prayer the Eastern people learn
“Peace upon you . . . Peace upon your way
Some we left with you no longer wait;
Some who came with us are sleeping near.
Virgin land —no more inviolate —
A world is yours; for us, another here.
Dreams—no more —the dark unsettled tide
Changing all we loved a year ago.
Would you have our courage—faith—abide?
Leave us then the images we know.
Via Dolorosa —way of pain . . .
Must we tread it ever day by day?
Pray—to any God —and pray again
“Peace upon us . . . Peace upon our way.”
There is the tragedy of war in that
poem, and acceptance of the tragedy ;
but there is no atmosphere of strange-
ness, no impression that Australians have
met a new earth and a new situation
upon it. “Banjo” Paterson once wrote
that Australia itself was a new earth and
that Australians on it were facing experi-
ences foreign to the traditions of Eng-
lish-speaking peoples. “All our roads
are new and strange,” he wrote, and so
—up till the time that he and Lawson
made them familiar to us —they were.
But an Australian has no feeling of
foreignness treading his own earth today.
In the nation’s literature, as in the nation
itself, the Australian tradition has been
established. As the writer felt perfectly
at home with the mirage of Flight-Lieu-
tenant David Campbell’s “Harry Pearce”
(first printed in a recent “Various Verse”
column), so does the Australian reader:
I sat beside the red stock route
And chewed a blade of hitter grass
And saw in mirage on the plain
A bullock wagon pass.
Old Harry Pearce was with his team,
“The flies are bad,” 1 said to him.
The leaders felt his whip. It did
Me good to hear old Harry swear
And in the heat of noon it seemed
His bullocks walked on air.
Suspended in the amber sky
They hauled the wool to Gundagai.
He walked in Time across the plain,
An old man walking in the air.
For years he wandered in my brain;
And now he lodges here,
And he may drive his cattle still
When Time with us has had his will.
Nor, though the impressionistic, less
assured style of David Campbell’s
“Kookaburra” might make it incompre-
hensible to an overseas audience, would
an Australian have any difficulty in re-
lating it to the local, tradition, things
seen and known for generations:
Ants in the red earth,
Red ants in red stone
Between the cold sky and the cracked plain.
Alone
A dry tree lifts withered arms and prays for
rain.
What is this mirth
Splitting the earth, the air;
Iron-hard in the hot brain,
Deriding prayer?
It is the Jack agaip-
Though the snake writhes in the dust of
noon
It will not die
Till black night brings the white moon.
But how new and how strange to
everything the average Australian —
solider or civilian—has seen and known
is the world of Sgt. Peter Middleton’s
“War in Papua”:
Deep in the dark ravines
and the mountain gorges;
on snakelike tracks traversing granite walls;
through green hells, fungus-lit,
and the stinking water ;
of swamp and stagnant pool:
man is seeking man
with quick-triggered death-
while both are stalked and snared
by a common foe.
Torrid heat and saturated air,
caverns of green darkness, crawling with death,
streams that tempt and kill with poisoned kiss,
winged death in the air, death in the leaf;
these are her armies, these her weapons, these
the enemies of man,
come he from east or west.
Every camp and bivouac fights for its life.
The blackened earth, rain-soaked, u
soon wears again
the sheen of green
as grass-spears mount, silent, menacing;
the slashed vines spread fresh tentacles on the
trails
and stinging leaves hang thicker than before.
Cover for creeping death is spread again
to ambush the unwary as he walks,
the weary sleeping.
Timeless, relentless, silent,
ruthless as steel;
this land makes mock of man’s own bitter war,
fighting invader and defender, both,
with dragon’s teeth.
War in the desert, the struggles of his-
tory, the dead religions and the living—
some awareness of all this lies at the
back of the mind of every civilised man.
The bullocky, the swarming ants, the
snake, the friendly kookaburra —they
form at the back of the mind the pattern
we know as “Australia.” But the Aus-
tralian soldiers for whom Sgt. Eric Irvin
speaks in “Soliloquy” are indeed meet-
ing a new situation in a new world.
The lid of the “green hell” has been
lifted and they are peering into it, trying
to relate it to what they have known,
trying to grasp it:
Silence, save the sullen drip
Of moisture to the heavy earth.
Heat that presses on the brain
And tautens every flinching nerve
Until the air is filled with madness.
Metallic, those leaves so strangely still;
Cut out of tin and painted.
Look how the water runs from every one,
An iridescent ball that bursts
With a sharp “plop” upon the ground.
The-sound is echoed all around.
God, will it never stop, that inexorable drop
From leaf to leaf, from leaf to ground?
Clammily cold,
Like the touch of a nightmare snake,
Each vine clings hungrily as I pass
But must not, can not hold me from my goal,
Which may be here: or there: or in the bole
Of that web-footed tree.
Everything is mad. The trees grow feet
And corkscrew themselves up to the sky,
Unable to escape the dragging vine
That holds them firm within its fetid bed.
Death I can face,
But hidden, creeping fate
That lurks behind each tree and palm,
The ultimate in hate,
Defeats the routine calm of conscious nerves.
Death is a soft enfoldment;
Not a sweep of pain from green
Embrasures, felt but never seen.
I have laughed at death—and know, if for my
sin.
When danger passes, glamor enters in;
But where the glamor of this painted jungle
mummer
To pass away a canrpfire’s easy chatter?
It lies within the future, and the present doesn't
matter.
I will believe: I will believe: the present
doesn’t matter.
Catching an image of New Guinea as
a python coiled in slime, a Field Ambu-
lance man who signs himself “Laurence
the Mug” invites Australia to “Think”
about the new world that lies off the
northern doorstep:
The quiet road rambling where the white gums
lean,
The ‘ creek gently chuckling by the moon only
seen,
With the soft mist rising as a mantle of peace
And the blue hills retiring where all sorrows
cease . . .
A man slowly crawling through the slime of the
world
(The jungle’s eyes leering where the python lies
curled)
With the blood of his manhood outstripping his
pace
And the soul in him crying what’s writ on his
face.
Speak not of your drums and your banners
unfurled
(Think more of the slime and the python
uncurled)
Whilst the flower of your race with its life-
blood is staining
The green of the jungle, the tropic moon
waning.
As was said in the last Red Page of
service men’s verses, one of the good
things that are going to come out of the
present bitter struggle is that thousands
of Australians are becoming aware for
the first time of the vastness of their land
and of the tremendous potentialities of
their nation. “VX 73000” and his cobbers
seem to have discovered a tough bit of
Australia ; but they have discovered it
—that’s what is important:-
Where burning suns beat on the mulga.
And heat-shimmers blanket the land;
Where the saltbush is dry as a prospector's
throat,
And spinifex speckles the sand;
Where beady-eyed bungarras scramble,
And emu feet splatter the dust;
Where the western horizon is laved in mirage
And “don’t want to” is turned into “must”;
Where settlers are battling with nature,
And begging a loan from the bank;
Where the niggers are lazy and covered with
lice,
And the smell of the lubras is rank—
There's where I am waltzing Matilda,
Alone on the blistering track,
With my face to the north and my heart in
the east.
And heart-breaking miles at my back.
But that, though implying a wider
understanding by Australians of their
own land, is in the familiar tradition, of
the outback. It is the glimpses of new
worlds in the islands to the north that
have been most interesting. Lines (by
“V.A.W.”) got through from “some-
where in the hills of Timor,” describing:
The buffaloes with wide eyes gaze
At passing soldiers in amaze.
The women flee with startled cries
To hide away from strange white eyes.
Green ricefields ; natives toiling ; children
bringing gifts of rice and eggs ; soldiers
shaking hands with the village chief;
and the campfire at night:-
And then at last the campfire bright
Dispels the shadows of the night.
We sit around and think of things,
But not of cabbages or kings.
And, as the stilly night wears on,
We talk of when the war is won;
The old home town, the girl still true,
And all the many things we’ll do.
A sentry’s challenge, sharp, is heard,
His nerves on edge, for something stirred.
A sudden lull, then talk once more:
The wind is neutral in this war.
There’s a touch of charm, a moment of
light relief in the Timor poem ; the Aus-
tralian outback stuff, as always, is sar-
donically humorous ; but it’s a sombre
world the New Guinea men are trying
to assimilate. Sombre, dank and bloody.
Capt. R. G. Bailey’s “They Shall Not
Pass”:
The nerveless hand that grasped the futile pen
Takes on new strength around the stabbing
blade;
The hand that drove the furrows with the
plough
Turns deftly to reshape the lowly spade.
They shall not pass . . . Exultant, to the skies
The red guns roar and settle wheel to wheel.
They shall not pass . . . And bayonets dripping
red
Are plunged again full length of horrid steel.
And we who sowed that broad expanse of plain,
And lived at peace within its plenteous grass,
Go stumbling back amidst this jungle hell
With bloody lips that say they shall not pass.
And F, J. P. Lundie’s “Remember” —
“written after memorial service by Padre
Norman”:
When morning breaks and in the dark- —remem-
ber.
The lads who bore death's awesome mark —
remember?
Remember what they hoped to do.
How grand they were, how staunch and true;
Remember what they meant to you.—Remem-
ber?
When things get tough and food is short-—re-
member ;
In every fight that must be fought—remember:
Your job and theirs must now be done,
You win for them what must be won.
In the darkest night, in the shining sun—remem-
ber.
And when death comes to you at last —remem-
ber ;
When you recall the dear dead past—remember ;
Remember how they bravely died.
No matter to what depths you slide,
Your glory is, you stood beside—remember?
Yet even in that strange and dark
world of the jungle the Australian
remains the Australian. Pte, “Egdon
Kempton” sends in a ballad—obviously
authentic —full of the same sturdy humor
that has characterised the Digger wher-
ever he has fought. It’s the story of how
a handful of Australians under “Captain
William Sped” ambushed the Japs south
of Kokoda Gap—men such as young
Rusty Blue who sported “a fortnight’s
beard that didn’t show” and “Old Lofty
from Kiriva way” who
Was two Japs high and fit to flay
A dozen on the knuckle.
“Sped’s Folly,” as the ballad is called,
describes the Japs pushing through the
jungle, the Australians lying in wait:
So where the path clove into two
Among three feet of grass,
A hundred men lay restless, knew
The Jap would try to pass.
Next morn the foe above the hill
Chanced on the tucker dump.
And grand young Blue felt tight and chill
—But hearts can only jump!
They aired each crafty English word,
They knew our men were near:
“Bring up the mountain gun,” we heard;
“Plenty good tucker here.”
A decoy with a sugar-bag
Strolled down the mountain track,
Their leaders shouted “Fire!” —a gag;
And we held back.
Two volleys from behind the trees
Failed both to draw a shot.
And, thinking we were theirs with ease,
The Japs moved in—to what?
“Don’t fire till fifteen yards,” had said
Our leader in his wit:
But then what bloody gales of lead
-TThe Tojos had a fit!
The plump of two-inch mortar “eggs,”
The rat-tat-tat, of Brens —
Those Japs had mighty speedy legs
And clucked like startled hens.
And so while the campaign is being
fought in New Guinea, its song is being
written. No masterpiece yet from any
one man ; certainly no epic. That may
come. But even if it does not, enough
will certainly be written about the jungle
to impress awareness of it on the general
Australian mind as living and fighting
there have impressed it on the soldiers
and their poets.
1
The Big Idea, by Major C. H. Douglas,
exhibits the high priest of Social Credit
in a new role—that of the two-fisted,
red-blooded pamphleteer. Gone is the
suavity, the appearance of sweet reason-
ableness, the illusion of saying something
both new and impressive, which earned
the major’s first two books a place in
Sydney University’s textbook list as sub-
jects for the honors course in economics.
Instead there is a torrent of railing accu-
sation against the International Jew, the
Freemason, the Baldwinite Conservative,
the Marxian Socialist, the Bank of Eng-
land, Mackenzie King, John Curtin,
Maoriland’s Walter Nash, Dr. Schacht,
Henry Ford, Winston Churchill, and
almost everybody else it is possible to
mention in a discussion of international
affairs. Though violent in tone and reck-
less in its use of history the diatribe’s pur-
pose is not at all clear. As good a guess as
any is that it is aimed against any sort
of centralised organisation, particularly
of nations or sections of nations. As
related by the major at full length, it was
the Federal authority of Canada that
scotched his little pranks in Alberta.
SUNDRY SHOWS.
“Rio Rita” (Sydney St. James) has been
modernised and re-gagged, and as a team
of knockabout patter comedians Bud
Abbott and Lou Costello carry to the
screen the best traditions of the stage.
Kathryn Grayson, a coloratura soprano
with a big range, sings the “Shadow
Song” from Meyerbeer’s “Dinorah”—
obviously interpolated to show off her
vocal fireworks —with judgment and sure-
ness.
Variously reported as being 14, 15 and
16, Allison Nelson, the youthful prodigy
from Adelaide who was soloist at the
tenth Melbourne Symphony Orchestra
concert at the Town Hall, looked about
12 and played Mendelssohn’s Piano Con-
certo No. 2 in D minor with the aplomb
and directness of a much older virtuoso.
There was surprising depth in the lovely
second movement, and the damsel’s calm
deportment conveyed the impression that
she wasn’t interested in anything but the
music. The programme included the
“Prometheus” overture of Beethoven and
the delicate “In a Summer Garden” of
Delius. It was the final concert of the
season, and Prof. Bernard Heinze ended
it in a blaze of glory with the seventh
symphony of Schubert.
“Trevdee” (up north) goes to the pic-
tures : —-
Going to the talkies in the N.T. has a flavor
of its own, quite apart from the few and rather
ineffective ones which Togo’s playboys produce.
The travelling talkie men select two decent-
sized trees to rope their screen to, and their
projection-room is an old tent fly, which is
anything but a protection-room when it rains.
Seating accommodation (provided by the audi-
ence) comprises a weird assortment of boxes;
shaky affairs which often crash. There are a
few who have made special seats for themselves,
and this idea is catching on quickly. Flying
foxes skim overhead during the shows, and
the slapping of hands at mosquitoes is an-
other part of the ritual. Remarks passed
during presentations are novel, and sometimes
witty; they remind one of Test-match barracking.
As a rule, it is frightfully hot, and the audience
sits beneath the stars shirtless, hatless and in
shorts; but when it rains waterproof capes be-
come part of the N.T. theatregoer’s ensemble.
It matters not that most of the screenings have
been seen in city theatres years ago. The
boys in khaki are very appreciative of the flicks.


“TRUTH IN ADVERTISING”
“THE SENIOR STORE”
I
i
7
o
Men’s Dressing Gown
All Wool Lightweight Worsted
Dressing Gowns in various
striped Blue, Maroon, and Grey
tonings. Size 36-inch to 40-inch.
At Anthony Horderns’. Price,
each £3/5/-
15 Coupons Required.
Men’s Sports Coat
All Wool Tweed Sports Coat.
Three pockets and tailored by
Anthony Horderns’. Mid-Grey
ticeed, in all sizes up to 46-inch
chest and 46-inch waist. At
Anthony Horderns’. Price, 48j6
12 Coupons Required.
m
mm
m.
.
• Men’s Wear —Ground Floor, George Street,
X
A
K
BUY
AND HOLD
WAR SAVINGS
CERTIFICATES
7/
“Dr. Eddie” Health Shoe
With the inbuilt arch brace which prevents flat feet
and fcllen arches. A style to fit every foot. “A
Sharia ood Product.” In Box Calf and Tan Calf and
made in full and half sizes. At Anthony Horderns’.
Price, pair _ 37/6
12 Coupons Required.
Men’s Work Trousers
All Wool Tzveed Trousers. In
Dark Grey with three pockets
and belt loops. At Anthony
Horderns’.
Size 30-inch to 46-inch waist.
Price 24)6
Size 48-inch waist. Price, 25J6
Size 30-inch zvaist. Price, 26/6
Size 52-inch zvaist. Price, 2716
5 Coupons Required.
■v/y/.-.
w&
f
Men’s Khaki Drill Shorts
English khaki drill with three pockets,
belt loops and hip straps. Size 30-inch
to 46-inch waists. At Anthony Hor-
derns’. Price 7j H
4 Coupons Required.
Men’s Work Shirts
Khaki Drill Work Shirts in a British
material arid made in our own work
room. Finished with collar attached
and breast pocket. Size 14\ to 18
inches neck. At Anthony Horderns’.
Price a j 6
5 Coupons Required.
ANTHONY HORDERNS'
FAMOUS LOW PRICES
PHONE: M 2401 (DAY AND NIGHT) BOX 2712 C, C.P.0., SYDNEY


F act Not Fiction: —
BACK TO ZEEBRUGGE
ON the night the Jap subs, took a
pasting in Sydney Harbor, pilot
craft Captain Cook was on the
job outside the Heads when engi-
neer E. V. Meikle was sharply called to
the engine-room;
“There’s a hell of a vibration going
on down here!”
It’s as good as certain they were right
over the top of one of the Japs ; which
was like old times to Meikle. He’d been
right on top of a much livelier “vibra-
tion” than that one, and in a livelier
show than that which broke loose later in
the Harbor, with the shore guns going,
warships blazing point-blank into the
water, searchlights sweeping everywhere
and motor-boats racing all over the place
dropping depth charges. “Those motor-
boats did a great job that night in the
Harbor,” Meikle said. “That’s the only
way with depth charges. You have to
throw them about. What you waste
doesn’t matter if you get your fish.”
He meant the tin variety. A depth
charge must play Old Harry with the
other sort. A plug of gelignite is bad
enough—that is, if it’s let go in time!
There’s a coastal part of Australia where
a remarkable number of the male in-
habitants have no right hand ; of course,
that might be only coincidence.
Meikle says that when dawn broke
after Sydney’s shooting party fish floated
in masses about the Harbor. “They’d
have made a great picture if I’d had a
camera.” They made the surface look
like silver. Then those whose small
boats hadn’t been laid up by “security”
orders went out and swooped on them.
As it is with the Sydneysiders’ sacred
pond these days, there wasn’t the ordi-
nary normal amount of fishing going on
in the North Sea and Channel when
Meikle was doing his bit on a mine-
sweeper there. After a depth charge the
surface would be thick with haddocks.
They took in as many as they wanted
with nets.
“All we could use,” says Meikle, with
a typical Australian grin on a most
typical Australian phiz. Which is a geo-
graphical deception the whole width of
the Tasman. He’s a South Island Maori-
lander, from Lyttelton. As any South
Islander will tell you, the North gets all
the plums. So, for all its fine harborage,
Lyttelton remains a ghost port, redeemed
from obscurity by the celebrated mile-
long tunnel which links it with Christ-
church, and (in other days, at any rate)
the more literally and liberally celebrated
circumstance of a pub on every corner.
Lyttelton gave Meikle a taste for the
sea, and he took to it under the old
Union banner. For some reason con-
trary to nature, he broke from it when
war came, getting into the N.Z. Rifle
Brigade to do his fighting. There he’d
have seen lively enough doings for any
taste if things hadn’t been ordered that
he should have his lively doings back in
his natural element. The word was
passed round when they got over the
other side that anyone in the Maoriland
forces who’d had experience in ships
was wanted by J. Bull for the Grand
Fleet,
So to the old Navy went Meikle, to
be posted first to a destroyer, subse-
quently going to Intrepid, under Bonham-
Carter, who commanded Sussex on the
Duke of Gloucester’s visit to Australia.
When Sussex was in Port Jackson,
Bonham-Carter signalled for the engineer
of the little pilot craft to come aboard,
embraced him on deck as a long-lost
brother, and yarned about the old
Intrepid and the grand show at Zeebrugge
—the show in which British blockships
were taken at night and sunk to stop
German submarines from getting out
into the open sea from the canal—“canal”
being a considerable understatement for
a waterway that three concrete-filled old
cruisers were sent to block, one of them
Intrepid.
It was a show in which the Silent Ser-
vice was at its most silent. Roger Keyes,
who planned it, insisted that not a
whisper should go outside the service.
The job was to be done by volunteers
from the Grand Fleet, and they were
recruited on terms beside which volun-
teering for a hop-over might appear rosy.
They were told nothing of what the.
show was to be ; only that it was ex-
pected there’d be 90 per cent, casualties!
On those grim terms were manned the
ships for Zeebrugge.
Giving it a fly, Meikle went with others
to Chatham, where the old cruisers were
made solid by pouring hundreds of tons
of concrete into them. Aboard, they
were at last told what was ahead of them,
and given a chance to get out. Only
one did —a w.o. father of four children.
He had no business there, anyway. Like
the present commandos these, says
Meikle, originated at Zeebrugge —starters
in the fearsome-looking handicap were
restricted to single men without depen-
dants.
“We fooled around for a time,” Meikle
says. “Kept going out to sea and coming
back. The people ashore got used to us
going and coming. They thought it was
just the Navy wasting their money. That’s
what they were meant to think. It was
just a blind.”
One day they didn’t come back. They
went to their rendezvous in the mouth
of the Thames. There they had to finish
off their rehearsing ; and wait till every-
thing was right.
ZEEBRUGGE MEIKLE.
The job ahead of them was one to set
its organisers up with a headache for
life. Success depended not only on a
general display of exceptional bravery
from commanders to stokers, but also on
a whole lot of things all coming off to-
gether. They’d have to be a given dis-
tance off their objective at midnight on
a full tide. There’d have to be just the
right sort of breeze blowing to the shore
—they carried cylinders of smoke to
cause an advancing artificial fog, behind
which the ships would move in (it was
hoped) without being spotted by the solid
array of shore batteries. A strong wind
would have been disastrous: if the
cruiser blockships, their bellies bulging
with concrete, got into a roll of more
than 40 degrees they’d have kept rolling
and gone right over.
Once the ships went out of the Thames
across Channel and North Sea to the mid-
night meeting point, but the breeze for
their “fog” wasn’t there. Another time
a stiff wind threatened to send the blockr
ship cruisers rolling to the bottom. Both
times they had to go back and wait inside
the Thames.
Came the night when everything was
right. Meikle’s ship, Intrepid, was one
of those under strict orders to go right
in and sink themselves in the canal, what-
ever happened. They stole through the
night to their appointed place. They let
their “fog” loose. They began slowly
moving in.
Before they got right in they were
spotted, and at once hell and all broke
loose. The inferno uproar was increased
by the firing from the ships whose job
was to go in against the Mole, and land
thousands of commandos to do as much
damage as possible, partly by way of
diversion from the real job on hand,
which was blocking the canal.
The Mole engagement and the rest of
what soon became a pitched battle lit
the place up like day. Sydney Harbor
that night was candlelight and Chinese
crackers to it.
Fouling rudder and propeller in net-
ting and wires laid across the canal
mouth, the leading blockship, Thetis, went
aground. The other two, Intrepid and
Iphigenia, were raked fore and aft by
concentrated fire from the shore bat-
teries. Hulls pierced and steampipes
burst, they held to their course.
Nothing short of sinking would have
stopped them, or the men in them. The
quality of those men is something to
hang up somewhere when longhair boys
are bleating about British decadence.
It had been arranged that at a certain
point before they started in, a watch of
Intrepid’s stokers was to be taken off in
a coastal motor-boat and returned to
England, one watch being enough for the
rest of the job. When the coastal boat
barged up none of the stokers it came for
could be found. Not to miss the fun,
they’d all hidden. The show was timed
to the minute ; no time could be wasted
looking for them. The coastal boat went
back empty. As it made off a grinning
lot of stokers emerged
—armed with home-
made weapons in case
of need ; hefty waddies,
with nails driven
through one end.
So with her full com-
plement—four officers,
20 seamen and 54
engine-room hand s
Intrepid moved into
place, where she was to
be sunk by blowing the
bottom out of her. The
big explosive charge
was placed directly
under the engine-room.
The arrangement was
that immediately the
old cruiser was in posi-
tion for sinking the
engine-room and stoke-
hold complement would
be warned through a
voice-pipe from the
bridge. They’d have a
minute or so to get out;
then up on the bridge
an electric button would
be pressed.
In position, the engine-room full of
steam escaping from the burst pipes, the
warning came. Meikle thought there
might be some injured chap who couldn’t
get to the ladder or climb it. He reported
this to the bridge. Back came the word:
“We’re in position. Any delay now might
ruin everything. She’s got to go up!”
“All right,” Meikle called back, “blow
her up! ”
She was blown up instantly. So were
engineer Meikle and one or two others.
They were nearly blown through the
engine-room skylight.
Their casualties —two stokers missing—
were light, considering. The rest got
away in two whalers, moving out of the
canal past the din and fire of the fight-
ing still going on at the Mole, where
casualties were heavy enough. At sea a
destroyer picked up one lot of them, a
motor-boat the other. The destroyer’s
crowd were lucky, making Dover in great
time. The motor-boat lot, including
Meikle, came in late in the day, when
they’d been given up as lost.
The lively doings had been made more
lively still by a British submarine which,
full of explosive, wedged itself in under
the viaduct leading to the Mole and blew
itself up, and the viaduct with it, block-
ing reinforcements to the Mole defenders
as effectively as Intrepid and Iphigenia
blocked in the Fritz subs. Sequels to the
show were a 33 per cent, drop in Channel
and North Sea sub. sinkings and, shortly
after, mutinies in the German Navy. “I
reckon Zeebrugge was what started
those mutinies,” says Meikle. “It was a
bad knock to German morale alto-
gether.”
So here, engineering aboard the trim
little Captain Cook, is Meikle, some 6ft.
of well-salted evidence linking back to
a grand St. George’s Day of high British
heroism. This account of his own part
in it has mostly been got from other
sources. In himself, he might be de-
scribed as the Silent Service in person.
Maybe it’s what makes ’em silent —that
they have a better private collection of
thoughts than most folk. Anyway, this
is his view of it all: “They were a great
lot of chaps. No doubt about that a
great lot of chaps.”
The Silent Service seems to be made
up of such.
Charles Woodford
By J. H. M. ABBOTT.
BEFORE they became a battlefield
the Solomon Islands were for the
most part a British Protectorate
—protected by the Man on the
Spot, the Resident Commissioner.
Forty years ago the Commissioner was
Charles Woodford, and it was to his ad-
ministration that the Solomons, then and
since to the outbreak of war, owe what-
ever progress towards civilisation was
made.
Woodford first went to the group more
than 60 years ago as a trained naturalist,
collecting for one of the Rothschilds,
and the excellent book he published in
the eighteen-nineties, A Naturalist Among
the Head Hunters, tells the story of that
part of his career. It remains one
of the best things ever written about
Melanesia. Later he was appointed
Commissioner, and if anyone ever bore
“the white man’s burden” it was C. M.
Woodford at the beginning of the
present century. His work was carried
on out of sight of anybody, quietly and
unostentatiously, and, for the most part,
only the Colonial Office and British naval
officers knew how well it was done.
Take a look at the Solomons as they
were in 1903, when the writer was there
for a little while. The Commissioner
had his residence at Tulagi in Florida,
and maintained there the principal
machinery of government as the head-
quarters of his native police and the
small secretarial assistance with which he
was provided. In the little island of Gizo,
at the western end of the Protectorate,
there was another Government station.
For the carrying on of these two out-
posts, keeping order, the administration
of trade and customs, the control of the
moribund Queensland labor traffic, super-
vision of traders and protection of mis-
sionaries, the punishment of native out-
rages and the guarding of prisoners under
sentence of the Commissioner’s Court,
not more than four white men and less
than 100 armed native police had to suf-
fice. There was a 70-ton Government
yacht, armed with one machine-gun ; its
master a white man and crew Solomon
Islanders.
It was the joke of the group at that
time that most of Woodford’s policemen
had been murderers. The usual penalty
for killing a man was a term of penal
servitude, when the prisoners made roads
and were well disciplined, and at the end
of their “stretch” were often enlisted
in the native constabulary.
Woodford’s job was to run a Protec-
torate, and he did it. Black Brother
had his “don’ts” well explained to
him. If he went headhunting the
punishment served out was swift, stern
and generally very certain. The cut-
ting out of traders’ schooners was
visited with pretty awfU|l penalties sub-
ject to the approval of the High Com-
missioner for the Western Pacific, Wood-
ford had the run of a gallows at Tulagi.
If the native was found in possession of
firearms, he was rewarded with penal
servitude on the Government plantations.
But Lord help the trader who abused
the confidence or the well-being of the
natives! He mustn’t shoot them, and he
mustn’t enslave them —should he do so
he got it very properly “in the neck.”
Woodford really was a “protector,” and
in such respect his memory deserves to
rank with that of the great “protector” of
Papua, Hubert Murray. Nothing better
could be said of him than this. It will
take more than a war to wipe out what he
did for the Solomons.


The Bulletin
Vol. 64.—N0. 3282.
Wednesday, January 6, 1943.
THE SUPPLIANT.
"I'm delegate John Curtin from W.A., and I've come, cap in hand, with my humble duty, to request the conference to permit me, as Prime Minister,
to authorise General Mac Arthur to send militia to Timor and places like that.”


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper
“Australia for the White Man”
Directors:
H. K. Prior J. E. Webb
P. H. Prior David Adams
HEAD OFFICE: 252 George Street. Sydney:
Box 2521 BB; ’Phone 87971.
Victoria: Newspaper House, 247-249 Collins
Street, Melbourne.
Queensland: 239 Adelaide Street, Brisbane .
Westralia; 33 Barrack Street, Perth.
New Zealand; Nathan’s Buildings iopp.
G.P.0.), Wellington.
London: 1 Hare Place, 47 Fleet Street,
London, E.C.4.
THE A.I.F. IN PAPUA.
In the splendid story of the A.I.F. in
Timor, told at last, it was mentioned in
the first paragraph that it was an A.I.F.
achievement from the beginning. What
is the full story of the A.l.F.’s
part in the fighting through the fevered
Papuan jungle, from close above Port
Moresby, over the frightful Owen Stanley
Range, down to the beaches where the
Japs have been making a last desperate
stand?
Reporting all through has emphasised
that the struggle up there has been ex-
ceptionally tough, even by A.I.F. stand-
ards. Returned men have told of the
terrible strain of fighting with the bayonet
only, leaving the give-away shooting to
the other side, through almost impene-
trable jungle, where every tree may be a
sniper, every bush an enemy, and every
breaking twig death. Even persons
whose hjome-front performance would
suggest the contrary must have a vivid
enough idea of the campaign.
It requires a closer and wider ranging
to gather a true idea of the part
played by the A.I.F. (leaving out, though
without overlooking, the part played by
American troops, and speaking only of
the share of the fighting done by Aus-
tralian forces). If the part played by the
A.I.F. has been as supreme as certain
signs suggest, this should be made quite
clear. It should pot be hidden—certainly
it should not be hidden for political
reasons. If it is not to be made clear,
there should be good military reasons.
On the other hand, if it is not true that
the A.I.F. has borne the brunt of the
Australian fighting up there—almost the
whole of it—then whatever is the fact
should officially be made clear.
Statements have been made in Parli-
ment at Canberra and are recorded in
“Hansard.” Trenchant statements were
made there on December 10 by one or
two of the unfortunately few soldier
members of the Senate. If they are un-
true, they should be officially refuted.
If true, they should be made public. The
fact that the soldier Senators were attack-
ing the Government on the one-army
issue would be the worst and most con-
temptible of all possible reasons for sup-
pression.
Earlier in the Papuan fighting a fair
amount of publicity was given to Militia
units fighting up there. By all report, they
did a splendid job, as was only to be ex-
pected. Those who have ever seen Militia
units in training, and particularly those
who know them as units and as indi-
viduals, know very well that they will per-
form up to the highest standards when
the one-army aim is accomplished and
the present disheartening confusion of
mixed and separate classes of soldiers
has been ended.
As far as the A.l.F.’s part in the Papuan
fighting goes, it isn’t a question of how
well the Militia units up there performed
but a question of how many were there.
If it isn’t true that the A.I.F. has been
called on to do the great bulk of the
fighting, it seems extraordinary that
General Blarney, in conveying “the
nation’s thanks” to “remnants of Austra-
lian Army units who fought the Japanese
from Iroibaiwa Ridge to Gona” in “the
grimmest battle the Australians ever
fought,” should have singled out the
A.I.F. and mentioned it only:
I am frequently asked how the old A.I.F.
measured up to the new A.I.F. I say;
Never was the original A.I.F. asked to per-
form so difficult a task as that you have
accomplished so splendidly In doing
what you did, you set a standard for your-
selves, the rest of the A.I.F. and the rest
of the Australian Army that will be difficult
to live up to.
General Blarney curiously remarked
that the soldiers he was addressing might
not at present realise the importance of
what they had done “because they were
slightly cynical about it.” As reported,
he did not explain what had made them
cynical, but that state of mind is not one
that arises without cause. Cynical be-
cause of what? Some of the performance
in what C. E. W. Bean has dubbed “the
meaner struggle” (political aspects of the
home front)? The endless procession of
strikes indulged in by men working in
safety for high wages, with three meals
(or more) a day and beds to sleep in?
General Blarney said: “Some of you have
been through Greece. Some of you have
been through the desert.” Would that,
related to their being brought back and
sent into something worse, to which
others might have been sent, have any-
thing to do with their being cynical? In
short, would this arise from a sense of
injustice ; a feeling that they were asked
to do more than a fair share?
If the A.I.F. up north has not felt that
sense of injustice, others have felt it on
the A.l.F.’s behalf. Others again have
shown themselves completely indifferent,
these being the ones who hold that, having
volunteered, the A.I.F, should be sent
into the line over and over again, till
the men are cut to nothing, till they are
remnants like those General Blarney
addressed. This is one most important
reason why the fullest possible account
of the A.l.F.’s share in the Papua fight-
ing should be given to the home-front
Australian public. Misguided suppression
and squabbling politicians between them
kept the full tragic story of the first
A.I.F. from the Australian people. The
result was that Australia, through the
politicians, deserted the first A.I.F. to its
fate, the bitter story of which has only
lately been fully told in the last volume of
Dr. Bean’s Official History, though the
injustice that was then done by refusing
the A.I.F. urgently needed reinforcements
has rankled ever since with those who
suffered by it.
This time it is not likely to happen
again— at least, not for a great while
longer; not, like last time, to the
bitter end. But from piecemeal evidence
it would seem that it has been happening
up to now. Nothing much comes out
about it through the usual information
sources —newspaper and radio reporting
—but letters from readers to editors are
being published. One of these told of
“a man who has three times been
wounded, the third time seriously, but
who expects to be sent back to the line
in the near future.” The writer who
mentioned this added that “There are
many similar cases, clearly indicating
that these men are slowly but surely
approaching the same fate as the old
A.1.F., an ever-diminishing band of bat-
tered and war-weary soldiers whose one
chance of rest from front-line service lies
in death or maiming” (“S. M. Herald”
correspondence column). In support
of this contention there was General
Blarney’s speech to the “remnants of
Australian Army units” (“S. M. Herald”
report); also the speeches of soldier
members in the Senate at Canberra.
Senator Brand:
What of these veteran Australian Imperial
Force units who fought in Libya, Greece,
Crete, Syria and New Guinea? Are they,
because they are volunteers, to be expected
to carry on without rest, without re-
lief? The situation in the South-west
Pacific is similar to that on the Western
Front in 1917-18. The Japanese are being
pressed back. The pressure is on, and it
must be kept on. Weary, depleted
divisions, however brave and experienced,
make little impression. They must have re-
lief. .. .Why should not the Militia divisions,
now well equipped and bored stiff with in-
action, be used as relief divisions?
Senator Brand drew a disturbing pic-
ture of a “hotchpotch army” resulting
from political cowardice. Backing him
up with description of units in which one
man is A.I.F, and another Militia, Sena-
tor Foil declared that “a good deal of
feeling which should not exist is engen-
dered among the troops themselves.”
If this outcry is on a false basis, there
should be an official statement setting it
right. It certainly should not be kept
dark. If true, it just adds an ounce or
two more to the ton of answerable argu-
ment in favor of one Australian all-pur-
poses army, which is the only thing that
can ensure anything like fair equality of
sacrifice.
This is on the way; but Australia’s
military position today would have been
incomparably stronger if political leaders
had had the courage to bring the change
about long ago. There should have been
one army from the start; from the
moment Australia went into the war.
That must hold for any future war that
this country gets into. The time for
leaving it all to the A.1.F., to the volun-
teers —for skulking behind them as the
funkhole politicians have done; for
mouthing miserable twaddle behind
them, as the Wards and Calwells have
been doing—that time is gone for ever.
Always a shabby get-out, it was bad
enough when it happened in the 1914-18
war, when Australia could plead ignor-
ance. That it should have happened
again in this war is a shameful blot which
should now be wiped out quickly and
for ever.
America Votes.
In recent utterances Mr. Curtin has shown
a right understanding of what this
country owes to the American nation, and
has expressed his Government’s gratitude
in graceful language. From the Con-
gressional election, the full facts of which
are now available for Australian study,
he could learn things important to his
party as well as his country.
When the P.M. commissioned his
Attorney-General to visit the United
States, the President, that true friend of
the British Commonwealth, seemed to be
in an unassailable position in Congress
and the country. He had entered on the
second year of a third term —a thing
without White House precedent. His
Democratic party had been in control of
Congress for 10 years, always with com-
manding majorities (sometimes three to
one) in both Chambers.
Mr. Roosevelt and his party are in
this position no longer. Though there
is still a Democratic majority, materially
reduced, in the Senate, control of the
House has been lost. So many New
Deal Democrats were defeated that the
Administration can be outvoted at any
time by a combination of Republicans
and anti-New Deal Democrats. Said the
New York “Times”:
Before the voters went to the poll
Democrats held 256 seats. Republicans
165, Progressives three, American Labor
one, Independent Democrat one, Farmer
Labor one ; and there were eight vacancies.
In January, with 218 necessary for a
majority, 223 Democrats, 209 Republicans,
two Progressives, one American Labor and
one Farmer Labor will sit on the black
leather benches. Hostile Democrats will be
able more than ever to coalesce with the
G.O.P. minority, either to oppose Adminis-
tration moves or to spur action.
Thirty-two of the 48 States also elected
Governors, of whom 28 were Democrats
and 20 Republicans. The new line-up is
24 Republicans, 23 Democrats and a Wis-
consin Progressive. Among the Republi-
can gains were California and New York,
where Mr. Dewey, the first Republican
Governor for 20 years, had a “plurality”
of 610,000 over the Democratic nominee,
Mr. Bennett. It is an office from which
in the last half-century three Presidents
have come: Grover Cleveland, Theodore
Roosevelt and Franklin Roosevelt.
Except in the ever-faithful South, the
Administration lost ground almost every-
where, and in most cases heavily. “Leav-
ing out States like Wyoming, Colorado
and Idaho, where the result was mixed”
(Arthur Krock in the New York “Times”),
“the Republican party carried States con-
taining nearly 80,000,000 of the national
population of 130,000,000. These States
have an electoral vote of 292, much more
than a Presidential majority”; and
there will be a Presidential election in
November, 1944.
In newspaper analyses of this aston-
ishing turnover dissatisfaction with the
conduct of the war is given a high place.
Of opposition to the war or war-weari-
ness there was nowhere any trace. Not
a single anti-war candidate came out,
and, though nearly all the pre-Pearl
Harbor isolationists were re-elected, this,
it is agreed, was an effect of the people
resenting the raising of a false issue, sup-
ported by what George E. Sokolsky
(New York “Sun”) called an “enormous
smear campaign.”
Americans have voted that we are
unanimous, as a people, on the question
of winning the war, but they dislike being
pushed round by Communists, disguised
Communists, appointed office-holders,
social workers, self-appointed Gestapos,
smearers extraordinary and just plain liars.
Wherever these folk united in calling a
candidate a Fascist or a Nazi the people
voted for him, because they did not
believe the lies hurled at him. Americans
dislike liars.
To this “Sun” man the election
“proves that enough Americans are sick
and tired of the New Deal, its in-
competence, its ineptitude its trend
towards mastery of our people instead of
service for them, its piling bureaucracy
upon bureaucracy until contact between
an American and his Government is like
wandering through a crazy maze.” David
Lawrence, editor of the “United States
News,” also sees in the result a con-
demnation of the New Deal and a revolt
against “the arbitrary and capricious
manner in which Left-Wingers, possessed
of vast powers over the citizenry, have
abused their position, especially in war-
time.” Mr. Lawrence refers also to
widespread disgust with the retention of
the statutory 40-hour week, with overtime
at time and a half, and intimates that
this disgust is shared by “non-radical
Democratic Congressmen from the
South,” being extended to “the arrogance
of Labor leadership and the subservience
of the Administration to the demands of
Labor lobbies.”
“Farmers,” wrote Thomas L. Stokes,
a Scripps-Howard staff man, “contributed
their share to the Republican victories.
Their complaint was that the Administra-
lion was not exacting equal sacrifices
from Labor, and this undercurrent was
felt strongly by those who went among
them in recent weeks.” An Administra-
tion spokesman quoted by Frank R. Kent
(“Wall-street Journal”) ruefully admitted
that “the chief cause of popular resent-
ment was the special consideration
granted to Labor.” Westbrook Pegler
(Scripps-Howard chain) expressed the
same opinion in his forthright way:
The people finally got sick of the cyni-
cism which could bring about a political
alliance between the governing party of
the nation, with its mouthy professions
of pure idealism, and the corrupt
machines of Jersey and Chicago, and with
the racketeers, grafters and dictators of the
unions with hundreds of millions of
dollars at their command, derived from
private taxing powers conferred on them
by the New Deal party.
George Rothwell Brown (New York
“Journal-American”) saw in the judgment
of the people “a smashing repudiation
of the vast Washington bureaucracy —
which for eleven months has been trying
to run its Utopian dreams with one hand
and the war with the other.” This is
substantially what Australians have been
saying about the Curtin Government and
its vast bureaucracy ; but Mr. Brown said
more:
The war effort is not merely suffering
from bureaucracy. It is suffering from a
bureaucracy that is more than tainted with
Communism, that in some of the sorest
spots is Communism. There are about
150 Left-Wing radicals of known Com-
munist affiliations or sympathies in strategic
places under the Government. A good
many heads are getting together at the
Capitol to devise a plan for ousting the
whole element from the Government service.
This writer and others pointed out that,
while members of other Congress com-
mittees had suffered severely in the con-
stituencies, the Dies Committee, known
the world over for its anti-Communist
explorations, had been “magnificently
vindicated.” It lost only two members
(both were Left-Wingers and one did not
seek re-election); on the other hand the
axe fell on 17 Congressmen who tried
to have the Dies Committee abolished.
At the same time the New York electors
returned State Senator Coudert, against
whom “an odd tatterdemalion crowd of
Communists, fellow-travellers and rabble-
rousers” conducted a blackguardly cam-
paign, distinguished by such allegations
as that Coudert was Laval’s lawyer, be-
cause the Senator had, as a member of a
committee, exposed and frustrated a plot
to Communise teaching in public schools.
Indeed the election was a dreadful
facer for Communists. They ran one
Israel Amter for Governor of New York
“solely on the issue of opening a Second
Front in Europe.” Although the popula-
tion of New York State is nearly twice
that of the Commonwealth, and though
Israel polled 100,000 votes in 1938, he
failed on this occasion to get nearly
the 50,000 required to give his mob legal
status as a party, and to remove the
doubts of the Dies Committee and the
American Legion. Not being a party
entitled to nominate a candidate under the
New York electoral law, the Communists
had to file a petition containing 50,000
signatures. This they did, and they con-
vinced the Courts that the signatures were
genuine. Now they will have to do the
job all over again.
The Curtin-Evatt view of the Com-
munist, as evidenced in the removal of
the ban on his party and publications and
the appointment of a young Red who
wrote “phoney war” articles to the Aus-
tralian Legation at Moscow, seems to be
that he is a harmless crank who, though
mistaken in his attitude to the German
war before Russia was attacked, is now
working earnestly in the good cause —
or part of the good cause. This is not
the American view.
Millions of good Americans have
always hated and despised the comrades.
The November contests have made it
very plain that this feeling now pre-
dominates in Congress and in the press.
It was expressed in many editorials after
the ignominious defeat of Israel Amter
and the would-be destroyers of Senator
Coudert, and in Congress by Mr. Rankin,
M.H.R., a Democrat for Missouri.
Said Mr. Rankin: “Communists are
stirring up race troubles in the District
of Columbia, which have resulted in
more outrages and murders during the
past two years than in all the previous
history of the capital.” He demanded
the dismissal of “Communistic crackpots
who have been put in key positions in
the nation.” Turning on Mr. Wendell
Willkie, he denounced that wandering
Second-Fronter for having accepted a
brief from William Schneiderman, State
secretary of the Communist party in
California, when Schneiderman’s naturali-
sation papers were challenged, saying
that “in arguing this case before the
Supreme Court Mr. Willkie no more
represents the law-abiding, God-fearing,
patriotic people of America than Benedict
Arnold represented the freedom of the
colonies or Judas Iscariot the cause of
Christ.”
It is unlikely that events will mitigate
this feeling, and it will be very difficult
to keep it out of the international field.


PLAIN ENGLISH
Diggers in Timor.
A great story, that of the indomitable
band of Diggers fighting in Timor. It
shoulders at once into the select company
of outstanding historical stories of high
heroism. It has the ruggedness of all
Australia’s pioneering background.
The swarming Japs landed in Timor
nearly a year ago. They were fought by
the Diggers till sheer weight of numbers
told. What was left of the Australian
defenders took to the hills. There for
two months they fought an entirely
private war. They had no com-
munication with the outside world at all.
For all they knew the war might have
been over.
In those two months the Japs sent them
demands for surrender. Cunning de-
mands, telling of surrender everywhere —
which was true enough. It made no dif-
ference. The men who’d taken to the hills
laughed at the compliment, and fought
on. One of them, a Tasmanian —they’re
mostly from Westralia and the Speck, for
some reason prolific producers of this
sort of men —made a wireless set out of
scrounged bits and pieces ; with it they
told Australia they were fighting in the
hills ; through it they learned that Aus-
tralia was fighting on. By this means
they heard of other things, too.
See them in the island with which
Westralia has an old connection: ill-clad,
ill-fed, sweltering in the tropic heat,
shivering in the night mists, prey of fleas
and lice, of malaria and dysentery —but
game:
Without let-up they have harried Japa-
nese armies—blowing up bridges and
mining roads, shooting up patrols often
100 times their size, sniping off officers,
hand-bombing and burning camps and
sleeping huts, pushing trucks over the
mountainside, stalking alone into an enemy
camp, firing from the hip with the tommy-
gun and walking out again, cracking the
Japanese nerve all the time.
Having got that picture of them, think
of them listening-in with their bits-and-
pieces wireless set —to the Prime Minister
of Australia crawling on his belly to
A.L.P. bosses, pleading with them to
give him the right to reinforce the men
in Timor! To Dr. Evatt imploring the
N.S.W. coalminers not to strike any more.
To the Government ordering, and Mr.
Ward asking, “good” unionists, they hav-
ing had their Christmas holidays, to work
on January I—in the case of 37,000
mostly-Sydney unionists, in vain.
And in Timor, perhaps, the Diggers
hear quoted extracts from the “Century”
writings of that great warrior Jack Lang.
But why should men of Class 4 be con-
scripted for Timor when a battle-seasoned
Australian army is still in Egypt?
Good on y’. Jack! That’s what we like
to hear. Use ’em like us —over and over
and over again. Doesn’t matter if they
have been in everything since they fell
back on Tobruk. Doesn’t matter about
the W.A. battalion lost at the Hill of Jesus
or the casualties (2740) at El Alamein.
Can they walk? That’s enough! Didn t
they enlist on their own account? Didn’t
they volunteer ?
War and the Bench.
Provoked into a public statement after a
disgraceful affair at Bondi Junction, Syd-
ney, in which a mob tried to prevent sol-
diers from doing their duty, an army
spokesman remarked “The public has the
same obligation to help the military police
as to help the State police.” He might,
with justification, have added “and so
have police magistrates.”
The soldiers concerned were men of
the Provost Corps. Trying to arrest
military deserters, they were set upon by
other soldiers and civilians, and there
followed a brawl which necessitated
heavy reinforcements of civil and military
police, and lasted for an hour and a
quarter.
Sixteen arrests were made. In no case
were the offenders sent to prison. Fines
ranging from £3 to £5 were imposed,
though a police-sergeant gave evidence
that some of the mob had tried to over-
turn military vehicles. Seemingly most
of the guilty parties were in reserved
occupations. One was described as “a
postal official” ; he, having no doubt re-
ceived leave to attend the court, was
fined £3 10s.
It was in a Sydney police court also
that two munition workers were sen-
tenced to six months for throwing bolts
into machines “whenever they wanted a
rest,” and to get even with their em-
ployer. But this queer conception of
making the punishment fit the crime is
not confined to Sydney courts of sum-
mary jurisdiction. In Melbourne a ruf-
fian of 24, with two companions, de-
manded money from an R.A.A.F. man,
and, being refused, knocked the intended
victim down. The R.A.A.F. man got up.
knocked his assailant down and called
the police. The ruffian got out of it
with a fine of £5 or 14 days.
In no other warring country could
such offenders expect anything but
severe punishment—in most of them the
knowledge of what they can expect is
sufficient deterrent against ruffianism.
Here hoodlums, with only fines to fear
should they be arrested —no great possi-
bility—look upon men in uniform as
fair game. Particularly military police-
men. Mr. Forde issued a feeble protest
against the conduct of the mob at Bondi
Junction, pointing out that “neither sol-
diers nor civilians have any right to inter-
fere with the Provost Corps in the carry-
ing out of their duty.” This is the sort
of language in which a benevolent school-
marm chides a child. What is needed is
action —such action as will put the fear
of God in the hearts of larrikins who
attack military police and other men in
uniform, and place it beyond the power
of magistrates to let them off with small
fines.
Stoning a Prophet.
The Bulletin was taken to task by the
Director of Australian Public Opinion
Polls for writing that “one of the casual-
ties at the U.S. election was the prophetic
soul of George Gallup” and giving as
evidence a Gallup prediction, issued in
August, that the Democrats would gain
eight seats in the House, giving them 274
out of 435.
The Director pointed out that Dr.
Gallup had been right about Mr. Dewey
defeating his Democratic and A.L.P.
opponents for Governor of the State of
New York, and that, in respect of the
Congressional contests, had “detected a
strong swing towards the Republicans
two months before polling day.” He
added that “some time will elapse before
we receive copies of Gallup releases in
the weeks immediately preceding the
Congressional election.”
Copies of said releases have come to
this office. One, issued from Princeton,
N.J., on October 31, and published in
the New York “Times” on November 1,
began unfortunately with the words “The
chief surprise in next Tuesday’s election
will be the continued strength of the
Democrats.”
The Democratic party will have virtually
the same majority of seats in the House for
the next two years as it has had since 1938.
The election result will come much closer
to Democratic expectations than to the
hopes of the Republicans, who have been
counting on a minimum gain of 30. The
final nation-wide survey by the Institute
of Public Opinion gives the following
approximate division by parties: Demo-
crats, 256 to 276 seats; Republicans, 158
to 178. This compares with 268 seats for
the Democrats in the 1940 election and
162 for the Republicans.
In another and final survey published
on November 2, Dr. Gallup arrived at
the same result. Election returns received
on the following night made a dreadful
mess of it. When they were all in, “same
majority” had become the sport of
dealers in flouts, gibes and sneers.
Vainly, as a detractor wrote, “the
Gallup poll patted itself on the back for
correctly predicting the election of
Thomas E. Dewey.” It was tartly in-
formed that “equally correct predictions
were made by the New York ‘Daily
News,’ by political writers from various
newspapers and by politicians,” and that
“two remarkable omissions characterised
the compliments extended by George
Gallup to himself.” One of the omis-
sions related to the Gallup forecast of
parties in the new Congress and the actual
strength as decided by the electors ; the
other to “the Congressional voting in
Indiana,” concerning which .“the Gallup
poll predicted that one of the major sur-
prises of election-day would be the in-
creased Democratic strength in that
State, with the percentage of the vote
higher than in 1940.”
The present Indiana delegation is made
up of eight Republicans and four Demo-
crats. Reapportionment reduced the dele-
gation to 11. Indiana will have nine Re-
publicans and two Democrats in the next
House. The Republicans won all 11 State
offices, won both Houses of the Legisla-
ture, elected every candidate in Marion
County for the first time in 14 years, and
elected a Republican mayor of Indianapolis
for the first time in 15 years. The Gallup
poll failed to discern this tidal wave.
Australians, for their part, cannot
ignore it nor what it may signify. *
In effect, Gallup polls, though put forth
with the assurance that “these surveys
are made by a system of highly-selected
samplings in each of the 48 States,”
whereby “is obtained a result which
would not vary from that of a much
larger canvas,” can be wrong like the
rest of us.
THE AWAKE-UPS.
“Go back and tell your boss we’re ‘awake-up’ to the whole bloody lot of you.”


~SS>
THE
PUBLIC TRUSTEE
Acts As
Trustee, Executor,
Administrator, Agent
or Attorney.
Under STATE GUARANTEE.
Absolute Security.
Estates efficiently and
economically managed.
WRITE OR CALL FOR
FREE BOOKLET.
19 O’Connell St. (Box 7A, G.P.0.),
Sydney.
W. B. Geddes, Public Trustee.
a scrap of paper
. ... but In the event of your
death a most important document
which will provide security for
your dependants. Without delay
see the Equitable Probate and
General Insurance Company for
expert advice on protection for
your family.
3e prepared—Be assured.
EQUITABLE PROBATE
L-- AND GENERAL INSUBfIHCE CO
Head Office: 371-373 Queen St.. Brisbane
Wingello House, Angel Place, Sydney.
Collins House, Collins Street, Melbourne.
R. V. PJElllilNS, General Manager.
POLITICAL POINTS
While the splendid story of Timor was
being told 37,000 well-paid N.S.W. wage-
earners loafed all day Friday. Having
been granted a Christmas spell of four
days, these well-paid wage-earners were
ordered —which means asked—by the
Government to maintain war production
on January 1. Most of them refused to
do so without double pay; and those
who were willing were, in one way or
another, forced into idleness by the un-
willing. From Gallipoli to Timor the
men of the A.I.F. have never been known
to cease fighting or working on a ques-
tion of holidays or pay. It is not in the
nature of their union, the grandest of all,
to scab on its mates or its country.
The McKells are putting the finishing
touches on a compulsory-unionism bill
for introduction when their “Parliament”
returns from the latest of its frequent
and prolonged loafs. Compulsory union-
ism, enforced by mob methods, exists on
the N.S.W. coalfields ; and in the year
of Australia’s greatest peril these coal-
fields, though the normal “working” week
is only 36 hours from bank to bank,
have rarely been without a stoppage.
It exists also in the callings from which
37,000 “reserved” persons, defying a
Government “order,” absented them-
selves on Jan. 1. What an advertisement
for compulsory unionism enforced by
law!
Dr. Evatt must have been pleased with
Opposition-leader Baker’s contribution to
the Tas. Assembly debate on Common-
wealth powers. Baker, a serious-minded
Old-Digger-lawyer, was critical in a con-
structive way at the convention, and at
Hobart he said he still had doubts on
some points, but rather than prejudice
a general settlement he would waive
them.
I think there is a clear and overwhelming
case for this bill, both on legal and political
grounds. Without it there will exist a defect
of power and a grave degree of uncertainty.
Tasmania should send Baker to Can-
berra and return Darcey and Lamp to
obscurity,
“I Won’t Wilt,” a comedy in several
spasms;
Dec. 3.—Dedman issues a ban: “No person
may, without a permit, employ, or continue to
employ, a domestic. servant for more than 24
hours in any one week.”
Dec. 7. —Doubts of the ban’s legality attri-
buted to Attorney-General Evatt and Solicitor-
General Knowles.
Dec. B.—Doubts spread, and “there is a
growing opinion that the regulation will not be
implemented.”
Dec. 10.—Ban postponed “indefinitely.”
Dec. 18. —P.M. announces that the ban will
be enforced in its original form.
Dec. 21. —P.M.: “I am not going to wilt
in the face of lawyers or professional persons
or others fortunate enough to be able to pay
others to do household chores for them.”
Dec. 22.—Curtin praises Dedman.
Dec. 23. —“S.M.H.”: “The Government is
believed to be making an apparent retreat.”
P.M. explains that the order is “being re-
framed.”
Dec. 29. —New order issued under which
anyone may employ, without permit, “either
one full-time domestic or two or more for a
combined period not exceeding 48 hours a
week.”
Somebody had wilted.
Dr. Evatt and brothers Garran,
Knowles and Bailey are against Ligert-
wood, the Adelaide K.C., on the point
that the Commonwealth Powers Bill does
not really set the agreed-upon five years’
limit to the powers referred to and exer-
cisable by the Commonwealth. But the
probabilities are that legcd interpreta-
tions will weigh less with property-fran-
chise legislators in at least two States than
the performances of Commonwealth
Ministers, especially Ward and Dedman.
It will be within the power of a few
obstinate old men in Adelaide and Perfli
to sink the bill, and some are expected
to try.
In the workings of the Russia-First
mind credulity, cocksureness and crawl-
ing are combined, sometimes with droll
results. Sydney “Telegraph” rounded off
a thrilling week by pronouncing Timo-
shenko “the greatest defensive military
leader this war has produced” (no men-
tion of Alexander), “and at present prov-
ing probably the greatest offensive
general” (again no mention of Alexander)
“ his great winter offensive, bigger
and more significant than anything this
war has seen.” Straightway it was “offi-
cially revealed in Moscow” (“S. M.
Herald”) “that Zhukov, not Timoshenko,
is directing the central and southern
offensives.”
N.S.W. Government railway employees,
other than officers and footplate men,
have two unions, the A.R.U. and the
N.U.R. The A.R.U. is “militant” ; the
N.U.R. moderate and non-political. And
“In defiance of a Government order, and in contempt of Mr. Ward’s eleventh-hour
appeal (‘any time lost in production at this vital juncture could not be regained’), 37,000
unionists, nearly all in Mr. Ward’s city, ablated themselves from work on January 1.
‘A large number will be prosecuted,’ said the Attorney-General. Mr. Ward protested that
‘no scheme would succeed unless it had the confidence of the trade-union movement,’ and
proposed ‘a trade-union congress to discuss absenteeism.’”
“YOU NAUGHTY fellow!”
it is largely because there is an N.U.R.
that the Government railways have been
free from war-time strikes. But the
Trades Hall hates it, and in servile obedi-
ence to the Trades Hall the Labor Gov-
ernment is going to try to declare the
N.U.R. bogus. This was attempted in
Lang’s time, when McKell was Lang’s
humble servant, and it crashed, the
N.U.R. having protected itself by regis-
tering itself in the Commonwealth Arbi-
tration Court. Its secretary, Fletcher, now
challenges its enemies to come on, saying
“the suggestion that the N.U.R. can be
eliminated by State legislation is all non-
sense ; and members do not fear such
childish threats.” That is the way to
talk! Honest men who believe in their
cause can always stand up against mobs
and their fawning instruments.
Darby Munro, a C.M.F. soldier who
gets leave every race day in Sydney and
rides racehorses, has been nursing a
bruised knee, his last mount having come
down with him. However, it is joyfully
announced that Soldier Munro does not
think the injury will —prevent him from
soldiering? No, riding in races.
“The lotteries are going off much more
quickly, and a greater distribution of
funds has resulted.” So said Westralian
Minister Coverley, referring to his State’s
share of the sordid lot’ry trade, while
the Commonwealth Government was
appealing for subscriptions to war loan.
In the other shop. Chief Secretary Kitson
made a great point of the fact that the
W.A. lotteries had in the closing year
furnished £67,000 for hospitals. Cole-
batch, a predecessor of Kitson (also ex-
Premier, ex-Senator and twice Agent-
General), acidly pointed out that in the
same period they had furnished £35,000
for ticket-sellers.
In his latest review of the situation,
Maoriland’s Labor P.M. said “I do not
believe in the theory of a holding war in the
Pacific while efforts are concentrated on
a second front in Europe ; in many re-
spects the Japanese are more dangerous
than the Germans.” So far Curtin is
with him. But Fraser went on to say
“we have taken up forward positions in
the Pacific area,” mentioning New Cale-
donia ; “it is only right that we should
take part in the offensive which will keep
the Japanese as far as possible from our
shores?’ In this matter Curtin was con-
tent to await the pleasure'of a seventh set
of A.L.P. bosses.
There is a Senate Standing Committee
on Regulations and Ordinances. Since
the war began it has dealt with 650 statu-
tory rules, 7050 orders, 59 rules, 13 by-
laws and 148 miscellaneous items. It now
reports that the flow of rules and regula-
tions has become a flood and that, with-
out skilled legal assistance, it can no
longer keep afloat. Presumably a board
for the Control and Regulation of the
Legal Assistance to the Senate Standing
Committee on Regulations and Ordi-
nances will now be set up.
Tully, the Sydney Minister of Lands,
is determined to put returned soldiers on
the land in his State’s dusty west. Focus-
ing his blind eye on the history of
soldier-settlements, he asserted that
soldiers had succeeded on the land. Yes,
but not in the N.S.W. Western Division.
According to W. L. Osborne, president
of the Queensland dairymen’s organisa-
tion, the P.M.’s statement on the
£2,000,000 subsidy implied that there
would be no further relief until there was
an “award” for dairy hands. This can
mean only high wages for dairy hands
and high subsidies so that dairymen may
pay them. It should be a great year for
taxpayers.
The average Australian, asked to ex-
press his New Year wish, might have
answered in many ways, from a desire
for victory to release of A.I.F. prisoners
in Malaya. The chairman of the N.S.W.
Country Greyhound Racing Control
Council had one of his own:
The Prime Minister has a right to demand
that squabbling in greyhound-racing cease.
Unity in greyhound-racing for 1943 is
my New Year wish.
What hound could resist such an appeal?
One of the most informative publi-
cations which come to this office is the
“United States News,” edited at Wash-
ington by, David Lawrence. Melbourne
“Herald” publishes the substance of a
Lawrence article which scouted the
notion that time is working for us against
Japan, and maintained that if “sock Hitler
first” strategy prevails the war in the
Pacific may be “protracted for several
years” and will require a “tremendous
effort” even then. Curtin quoted it, but
not one of Lawrence’s main contentions:
“Americans should clamor for Russia to
open si second front in the Far East as
the Allies have opened one in North
Africa.”
Who killed Darlan? A young French-
man who hated the admiral and Petain
liked poison. That suggests a Communist,
since there don’t seem to be De Gaullists
enough in Algeria to run a milk round.
It was clear that the ruffian must have
had accomplices, otherwise he wouldn t
have been allowed to wait, armed and un-
guarded, in a room which Darlan must
pass, but mention of a plot was withheld
till it came out that four policemen with
foreknowledge of the Darlan affair and
eight other persons had been arrested at
Algiers by way of preventing the assassi-
nation of General Giraud and the Ameri-
can Minister Murphy, and that four rail-
way saboteurs had been executed. Per-
haps those British Left-Wingers didn’t
really improve the situation by demand-
ing the dismissal of Darlan, in obedience
to orders, and their elation, reported by
F. Ehrenfried Baume with approval, was
premature.
Letter from an A.I.F. man in New
Guinea who reached that country via
Libya, Greece, Crete and Syria:
The worst aspect of the show here is the
using up of all the returned A.I.F. infan- -
try while there are hundreds of thousands
of militia infantry who have not fired, and
who are not likely to fire, a shot. The in-
equality of sacrifice between voluntary and
conscript is most glaring and an A.I.F.
veteran’s chance of surviving the war is
very slim. Personally I think the soldier is
better off if he does die with his boots on
and fails to see the glorious peace.
It was read by Senator Sampson to his
colleagues and recorded in “Hansard.”
It ought to be read by compulsion at
every meeting called to oppose the prin-
ciple of equality of risk.
Appointed political director of the
Queensland Country-National organisa-
tion, R. J. Larking’s first announcement
was “I mean business.” The C.-N. crowd
can do with somebody like that.
Schoolchildren who answered a man-
power appeal for help in prune-drying
at Leeton (N.S.W.) were told they’d have
to join the A.W.U. within 24 hours and
pay 15s. membership fee for their three
or four weeks’ work. So to “body-
snatching” has been added “kidnapping.”
A Melbourne “Age” writer, in a neat
little article on remembered lines of
poetry, was badly served by the printer
in quoting Keats:
Charm’d magic casements, opening on the foam
Of perilous seats, in faery lands forlorn.
People like Ward anjd Dedman, and
even John Curtin, in view of his election
experiences in Fremantle, might well
wonder if it is a misquotation.
It is grievous to read in “S. M. Herald”
that “delays in overseas communications
still constitute one of the major prob-
lems of newspaper production” and that
A.A.P. messages, cables and telegrams
alike, have to be sent at “urgent” rates. One
way of speeding up deliveries and cutting
down costs would be to rule out the
speculations of famous (and infamous)
correspondents and publish the bulletins
of all the belligerents, as the New York
“Times” does. The N.Y. “Times” invari-
ably publishes the MacArthur commu-
niques first.
Communists will stop at nothing. A
female of the species, urging legality of
the “party,” had the effrontery to de-
clare that if the British had granted the
Malayans yes, the Malayans! —self-
government “there would be fewer fami-
lies in Adelaide today mourning for hus-
bands and sons whose fate is still un-
known.” They’ll be extending the argu-
ment to New Guinea next.
The Four Freedoms seem to have been
accepted everywhere except the Axis
world ; and the Axis world may shrink
to nothing. One awkward possibility is
that millions of acceptors may take it
for granted that a Fifth Freedom is
implied —freedom to emigrate.
Ex-Premier of N.S.W. Mair fears that
the “cancerous parasite” of compulsory
unionism is just around the corner. In
his and Stevens’s time it was prosperity
that was just around the corner. So
there’s an around-the-corner precedent
for compulsory unionism not coming off,
either.


EXBI-42
“This Will be a Darning Needle Year”
—says the Prime Minister.
A stitch in time saves nine. An occasional call on your Exide Dealer will keep your
battery up to the mark. When replacement is needed remember . . .
BATTERIES
Still Keep Going When the Rest Have Stopped
Let this be Your
Wartime Slosan.
PERSONAL ITEMS
Any explanation for why men born or
nurtured in Westralia make such out-
standing fighters? Bean, in the last vol.
of his Official History, gives Groper-
landers first place in a general summing-
up, with Bananalanders second. In that
war Harry Murray, with V.C., D.S.O.
and bar, D.C.M. and Croix de Guerre,
was the A.l.F.’s most-highly decorated
man. He was a Tasmanian, but enlisted
in W.A., having been there long enough
to absorb whatever elixir it is that State
brews. The most-highly decorated Aus-
tralian of the present shindy, Wing-Com-
mander Hugh Idwal Edwards, V.C.,
D. 5.0., D.F.C., is also W.A., birth and
all. Fremantle claims him as its own.
He’s bred from the land which produced
Billy Hughes,
Concrete-mixer;
Frith has let himself go with enthusiasm on
the inviting features of an enthusiast —Gerald
Francis Dampney, who lately figured in “Plain
GERALD DAMPNEY.
English” on the strength of his concrete houses.
An Englishman, his father had a model farm at
Yeovil, the lease dating back to when the inhabi-
tants daubed themselves with woad so that
they could see each other in the fog. Its pro-
ducts were sold in a retail store in Yeovil,
opened for that special purpose by Dampney’s
dad, who shouted himself a world tour on the
proceeds when his son had reached the wise
age of 20 and was therefore thought old
enough to be left in charge. Next year young
Dampney also set out to see the world, and
found Australia so much to his that
he stayed, first in a paints business in Sydney’s
Balmain, then on a farm at Paterson, on the
Hunter, with lucerne and Guernseys. Also
white ants, which ate down his sheds. Hence
his thoughts turned to concrete. Among other
things he knows about concrete is that, like
bacon, it has to be “cured.” Time for con-
crete, about three weeks.
Both Archbishop Gilroy (Sydney) and
Archbishop Tweedy (Hobart) started off
as telegraphists in the P.M.G.’s Depart-
ment. The third New South Welshman
to reach high Catholic Church office, Dr.
Tweedy is the youngest Australian ever
to be made an archbishop.
One of the first to get the special
R.A.N.V.R. cadetship granted to sons of
men on active service is Rory Ward Bur-
nett, whose father, Captain Joseph Bur-
nett, was Deputy Chief of the Naval
Staff and in command of the Sydney
when that ship vanished with all hands.
An elder brother is at the Naval College.
In the Honors:
British New Year Honors list included two
Australian-born airmen Air Vice-Marshal
H. V. Champion de Crespigny, C.-in-C. R.A.F.
in Iraq, C. 8.; Air Vice-Marshal D. C. S.
Evill, senior Air Staff Officer of Fighter Com-
mand, K.C.B. Gort and Wavell were pro-
moted field-marshals. No full-time author
figured in the list; nearest to one was R. H.
Bruce Lockhart, who got his K.C.M.G. as
Director-General of Political Warfare. The
stage and music collected —actress Lilian
Braithwaite, D.8.E.; Professor Stanley Mar-
chant, principal of the Royal Academy of
Music, knighthood. Sir William Holdsworth,
Vmenan Professor of Law at Oxford since
D 22, moved into the select O.M. class; Chief
Rabin of the United Hebrew Congregations of
the British Empire, Dr, Herman Hertz, became
Companion of Honor. Three new barons are
Admiral Roger Keyes, Sir Miles Lampson
(Ambassador at Cairo), and Sir Charles Wilson,
who looks after Churchill’s health, going on his
trips with him. The Commonwealth list was
confined to the services, headed by Lieut.-Gen.
Sturdee, with C.B. added to his C.8.E., D.S.O.
Air-Commodore Francis Masson Bladin, C.8.E.,
started with the R.A.A.F. back in 1923 and has
lately been successively in command of the
southern and north-western areas. In State
lists Chief Justice Napier (S.A.) and Chief
Justice Morris (Tas.) became K.B. Captain
Donald Yates, general superintendent of Broken
Hill Assoc, smelters at Port Pirie, and Tas. Leg.
Council President Thomas Murdoch gathered
C.M.G. Also listed, award of the King’s
Police Medal to aboriginal Sergeant Tracker
Alexander Riley, who, since he started sleuth-
ing in 1911, has brought off a long string of
extraordinary tracking performances.
Had a ninetieth birthday in Maori-
land, F. Wilding, K.C., father of the
former world’s tennis champ. Wilding,
sen., was tennis champ, for Canterbuiy
for some years ; he was even better at
cricket, making 1000 runs and taking
100 wickets in rep. matches. In 1888 he
took eight wickets for 21 against an Eng-
lish Eleven, and he was in the M.L. team
that played Trott’s Australian XI in 1896.
Old-time cricketers among those who
bellowed “For he’s a jolly good fellow”
included Frith (87), Henry Cottereill (87),
De Renzi Harman (82) and J. Wheatley
(82). Wilding was president of the Can-
terbury Cricket Association for 20 years,
and was three times president of the N.Z.
Cricket Council.
With his verse play “Ned Kelly,” Bul-
letin Red Page editor Doug Stewart
won A.B.C.’s competition open to radio
plays at large—prose, verse or otherwise.
He has capped it by also winning A.B.C.’s
other competition (verse plays) with “The
Golden Lover.” “Ned” is a stage three-
acter. It had to be cut with an axe,
ploughed through with a bulldozer and
put through a woolpress for radio pur-
poses. Even so, it was fair enough,
though not a patch on what game stage-
producing and good acting might make
of it. “The Golden Lover” was written
for radio. A comedy, sprung from its
author’s native Maoriland, it has the
quality of its title, like his “The Fire on
the Snow.” In technique it’s an improve-
ment ; all straight going, without resort
to an interjecting Voice for effect or to
carry the narrative. Listener applause
suggests that “The Fire on the Snow”
might be called a masterpiece set in ice ;
“The Golden Lover” is likely to be hailed
as another such written on a warm night.
It’s based on a graceful bit of Maori
folklore.
“Si Anu” discards chivalry:
I see that the Hon. Mrs. Ronald Grcville
has died in England. She was a friend of the
Royal family and was in Australia at the same
time as the King and Queen, then Duke and
Duchess of York, and she staggered people by
what a daily newspaper called her “candor and
outspokenness.” Her parting kick to Aus-
tralia was the remark that she would like to
pay a tribute to the waiters and taxi-drivers,
among whom she found the best manners.
Conceptions of manners differ, however. A
visit I once paid to the Sultan of Jpkjakarta
in Java, armed with a letter from the editor of
The Bulletin, happened to synchronise with
that of the aristocratic English lady, who was
armed with a vast array of diplomatic pass-
ports. The sultan put himself out to entertain
us. There was a special ballet of his daughters;
we were filled with champagne, whisky and
sweetmeats, and were also allowed a peep
through the harem bars at some of his 80
spouses. This magnificent reception from the
spiritual head of 45,000,000 people, whose
family tree was at least as old as hers, pro-
duced no effect on the English lady, who spent
the time bitterly complaining that some care-
less native steward had misdirected her luggage
and left her with insufficient jewels to outshine
the sultan.
After trying for years to keep steel
free of rust by all known painting ex-
pedients and getting sick of putting it
on and scraping it off again (it takes 30
men constantly to do this to Sydney
Harbor bridge), V. C. J. Nightingall sat
down to find what is the cause of it.
Evidently he got on to the trouble. After
severe tests, in which pieces of steel were
immersed in salt water for some years
without visible failure, South Australia
has adopted his process for a new job.
Touching on Bulletin preference for
fighting yarns written by the fighters
themselves, the recently-completed Spit-
fires Over Malta is the combined effort
of Australian fighter pilots Flight-Lieut.
J. W. Yarra, D.F.M., Pilot-Officer (when
last heard from) Paul Brennan, D.F.C.,
and another not named so far in their
letters. Yarra and Brennan were so good
as fighter pilots that they were specially
selected by the R.A.F. to join a crack
fighter squadron in the defence of Malta
when they were newly-fledged sergeant-
pilots from Canada. In no time they had
achieved commissions, decorations and
ace fame on the other side of the world.
If they wrote as well as they fought their
book should be a best-seller. Brennan,
a Queenslander, is still flying. Yarra
was shot down in the North Sea two
miles from land on December 10, and is
believed killed. He is the son of A. E.
Yarra, a New South Wales journalist,
whose novel, The Vanishing Horseman,
was one of the runners-up in the Bulle-
tin £lOOO prize novel competition in
1930.
Frank Langstone, erstwhile Maori-
land’s High Commissioner in Canada,
and coincidentally , M.P. for Waimarino,
Minister of Lands and political head of
ten other departments, has explained why
he came home from Ottawa and resigned
all his portfolios. It wasn’t because Nash
was appointed Minister at Washington,
but because Priminister Fraser neglected
to tell Frank about Nash’s appointment,
which came “as a bolt from the blue.”
Langstone now reveals that he has long
disagreed with the War Cabinet’s finan-
cial policy, disapproved of the War Cabi-
net’s formation and asked to be allowed
to resign when Priminister Savage died
and again when the War Cabinet was
formed. Fraser wouldn’t hear of it.
Walter Hartwell James has gone to
join nearly all his fellow-delegates to the
1897 Federal Convention, at which he
was the youngest member (34), chosen
with John Forrest and eight others by
both Houses at Perth. A barrister for
54 years, James was East Perth’s M.L.A.
for 12 years. The leadership of a Govern-
ment for two stormy years (1902-04)
against a rising Labor party sickened
him of politics, and he retired to London
as A.-G. (1904-07). On his return to
Perth he devoted himself to the practice
EX-W.A. PREMIER JAMES, K.C.
of his profession and the philosophic en-
joyment of life. He was one of those
men who never seem to grow old.
Lieutenant-Colonel Campbell Stuart,
G.C.M.G., K.8.E., is at Canberra as
chairman of the Imperial Communica-
tions Advisory Committee to help find a
way to make existing beams and cables
carry a load which in press traffic alone
has gone up in war-time from 25,000,000
words p.a. to 92,000,000. Born in Mon-
treal, his rank subsists from the last war,
when he raised in the province of Quebec
a battalion of the Duchess of Con-
naught’s Own Irish Canadian Rangers
for overseas service. But his big job was
Deputy Director of Propaganda in
Enemy Countries, and his Secrets of
Crewe House is the official record of his
activities in that post. After the war he
invaded Fleet-street, became managing
editor of the “Daily Mail” and later of
the “Times” —he is still a director of the
“Thunderer” and a member of the Coun-
cil of the Empire Press Union. A director
Empire Dots and Dashes.
also of the Pacific Cable Board, he has
a travelling familiarity with most of the
network of Empire cables, including those
now in Japanese hands.
Into the silence:
In Sydney, James Adam Dick, 76, Rand-
wick medico for 49 years and former president
of the B.M.A. of N.S.W. Veteran of the Boer
War and 1914-18, he was in dispatches in both.
In Brisbane, at 69, Charles Stewart McGhie,
of the legal firm of McGhie and Chambers.
He first practised in Maryborough, where he
was maypr for a time.
In Brisbane, at 81, John N. Devoy, who
arrived from Ireland at eight, made a name for
himself as an oarsman and footballer, had a
commission in the old Queensland Irish
Rifles, and had lately retired from the chairman-
ship of Castlemaine-Perkins Brewery, the only
firm he ever worked for, beginning at 13.
In Hobart, at 54, Lt.-Col. Leslie H. Payne,
a Burnie native who commanded the old 40th
Batt. at Heiliy and Proyart. Back with a D. 5.0.,
he served a term as a Nat. member in the Tas.
Assembly, and was secretary of the Tas. Deaf,
Dumb and Blind Institute. He became a camp
commandant when this war broke out, but
gave it up and was superintendent of the Vic.
Deaf and Dumb Institute until ill-health com-
pelled retirement.
Killed when a Japanese ’plane dropped bombs
on an advanced dressing-station in New Guinea,
Major H. F. G. McDonald, of Canterbury
(Vic.). A Scotch College and Melbourne Uni-
versity product, he spent six months at Tobruk
and ministered to the sick and wounded through
the Syrian business He was a nephew of Lieu-
tenant-General John Lavarack. His father,
Major G. H. J. F. McDonald, was killed in
action in the last war.
In N.G., at 25, Captain Trevor Clowes, of
Warwick (Q.), a brother of Major-General
Cyril Clowes, D.S.C., M.C., of Milne Bay
fame, and of Brigadier Norman Clowes, who’s
in the Middle East, where Capt. Clowes also
served.
In Brisbane, at 79, Brig.-Gen. J. F. Flewell-
Smith. Born in England, he arrived in Queens-
land as a three-year-old, commanded a con-
tingent in the Boer War and was administrator
at Colesburg (S.A.) for two years. In the 1914-
18 war he had a training camp at Enoggera,
and was C.O. on a transport. He was awarded
the Royal Humane Society’s medal for rescue
work in the big 1893 S.Q. flood. A great be-
liever in co-operation, he was one of the
first directors of the Murrarie Bacon Co., the
Q’land Farmers’ Co-op. Association and the
Farmers’ Co-op. District Society. A son is a
captain in the A.I.F.
In Manly (Sydney), at 60, Fred H. Harvey,
a topnotch public servant who looked after the
Agricultural Department’s Pastures Protection
section. His three sons are A.I.F. officers.
In Melbourne, at 60, Harold William Conolly,
who had been battling efficiently with an un-
precedented rise in mails since the war began
as superintendent in Victoria. He was educated
at Newington, Sydney.
In Launceston Hospital, Phillip James Cherry,
doyen of the Apple Island’s Inky Wayfarers.
For 39 years he edited the Burnie “Advo-
cate.”
In Melbourne, Jack Maher, sporting writer
and cycling and athletics editor of Melbourne’s
“Herald” and “Sporting Life.” He had an
invitation from the Japanese Government to
attend the Olympic Games which were to have
been held in Tokyo in 1940. Among the
wreaths was one from Pilot-Officer Hubert
Opperman.


Society
"AND IT'S PRINTED
WITH WIMBLES INKS."
“Mac Hoots”: It was for this, I sup-
pose, that Sylvia Pankhurst went to prison,
and for this that the suffragettes chained
themselves to railings in the House of
Commons: She, the New Woman, strode
into the restaurant at Sydney’s King’s
Cross where I sat solitary at a table for
two, seated herself opposite me, called
for a wineglass, drew from her handbag
a flask of burgundy and, as the dinner
proceeded, swigged the lot. Even at the
Cross, where Woman marches more
vigorously to wherever she is going than
in less colorful districts and where the
only way of distinguishing the female
from the male is that, if young, she has
platinum blonde hair, if elderly, blue
hair, and that in both cases she takes a
somewhat wider size in slacks, that was
a new one on me. Equality, freedom, etc.,
were doubtless demonstrated, and I have
no criticism to offer except that a genu-
ine equal, a man and a brother, in these
dry times would have split the bottle.
* * * *
“Hamer”: On December 29 a small
group of ageing Sydney Bohemians found
a pub where the supplies had been re-
plenished after the Christmas drought
and drank a toast to a dead poet. That
was probably the only Australian recol-
lection of the 37th anniversary of Victor
Daley’s death, although in his own day
Daley was exalted above Lawson and
Gordon, whose memories are kept green.
Daley’s work may have been overrated
in his time ; he called it “shining shal-
lows” himself. Yet he thought well
enough of his gifts to remark, when Lord
Beauchamp sought his acquaintance:
“Any king can make a Governor ; God
alone can make a poet.”
* # SH *
“McN.”: Women s.p. bookies may be
a “war-time development” in Queensland
(B. 30/12/’42), but they are no novelty
elsewhere in this land of opportunity.
Melbourne and Sydney suburbs have
plenty of ’em and have had plenty for
years. When I hit Adelaide in 1921 I held
several commissions from cockies up the
Pinnaroo line for Amazonia in the Cup
and found that the only legal betting in
the Crow-eating State was by tote on the
course. At my pub a discreet inquiry
brought me two ’phone numbers and an
address. Both the ’phone numbers were
women. Now, living in one of Sydney’s
most conservative suburbs, I can place
bets with two women.
* * * *
“Zend Avesta”: Military colloquial-
isms, is it? A returned man who wan-
dered into our tent in search of a match
had this to say about the n.c.o. he dis-
liked most: “The cow’s so low that if he
sat on a cigarette paper his legs would
dangle.”
* * * *
“Blue P.”: Coroners, is it (B.
30/12/’42)? When I was hacking on a
country rag a man was found dead out-
side the town. Beside him was an empty
cordial bottle with a brown stain in it.
There was little else in the story, and I
flogged up the mystery of the brown stain
for all it was worth. But the coroner,
his Court assembled, condemned me,
the newspaper, the modern craze for sen-
sation and a lot of other things and
threatened to take contempt proceedings.
The stain, however, was examined the
next day and found to be sheep-dip—
deadly poison and the cause of death.
* * * *
“F.S.”: Elias Henry Jones, author of
The Road to Endor (he has passed
on in England), kept himself going
during years of captivity in Turkish
prisons in the last war by planning
escape, but he used an entirely dif-
ferent method from that employed by
Col. Tom White, M.H.R. The Austra-
lian studied Turkish history, language,
habits and customs in order to outwit his
captors, and would patiently spend several
months in perfecting himself in some tiny
detail. After getting out of Constan-
tinople by the skin of his teeth, White
reached Odessa just as the Bolsheviks
took over, and ended up in Greece three
days before the Armistice bugles sounded.
Jones, on the other hand, persistently
feigned madness, which psychologists
would say was the much more dangerous
method. On one occasion White and
Jones met in the same hospital, where
Jones had been staring into space for
several months while the Turkish doctors
strenuously tested his botta fides. One
day White got near enough to Jones to
speak to him. “I have been pretending
to be barmy now for two years,” whis-
pered Jones, “and now I’m deadly afraid
that I might go mad.” But he didn’t.
“ Friend , me eye! I hate the flamin' sight of y'!"
“Spokeshave”: What’s in a name,
especially when it’s coined by politicians?
Melbourne’s first Austerity Christmas
might more fittingly have been called
its Luxury or Lavish Christmas. Never
before was there such buying of un-
essential rubbish, despite Mr. Dedman ;
never before such holiday traffic on
tram, bus and railway. No fewer than
35,000 people were conveyed in one day
to one bayside resort, and most of the
others were similarly crowded and lit-
tered. Moreover, telegrams to all parts
of Australia and overseas set a new
record. Obviously people must have got
round the regulation prohibiting Christ-
mas-greeting telegrams to any but the
fighting forces.
Hs % % $
“Lord Luvus”: Melbourne City Coun-
cil’s after-war planning committee has
been discussing projects aimed at employ-
“I Want three volunteers .”
ing service men when the war is over.
These include the shifting of the Town
Hall from its place on the corner of
Swanston and Collins streets to the site
of the Exhibition ; numerous subways ;
establishment of communal centres, in-
cluding creches, libraries and gymna-
siums ; an airport; arches, viaducts and
bridges, and a symbolic statue of Peace,
to be erected at the termination of
Alexandra-avenue. I hope it all comes
true, but have my doubts. There may not
be so much money about after the war.
In the last depression the City Council,
to balance its budget, had to cut off the
milk supply to the babies of the unem-
ployed, and the abolition of the bottle-
neck to the southern suburbs has been
discussed for 30 years and shelved for
lack of funds.
* * * *
“Bo” unleashes a war-time memory:
The white horse in war (B. 30 /12 / ’42) went
out when the rifle came in, and I don’t doubt
that the shrewd commander eschewed a con-
spicuous mount even in the days of the arbalist
and the sling. I saw one used but once in the
last war, and it proved fatal to its owner.
When we lobbed into the line for the first time
on April 16 at Fleurbaix you’d hardly have
known there was a war on. Every day fatigue
parties came down from the front line to get a
couple of dixies of beer from the estaminet just
behind supports; an odd speculative shell came
over a few times a day and a Verey light
flared now and then at night. These were the
only signs that both sides weren’t fast asleep.
Then one day a shell blew a wheel off an 18-
pounder, and a sergeant, hopping mad at the
indignity, let go a few unauthorised salvos.
1 hat broke the sylvan spell, though farmers
still tilled their plots less than 1000 yards
from the front line. The Fritz gunners seemed
to have an uncanny knowledge of our move-
ments, and Intelligence offered rewards for the
spotting of spies. One Digger, quick on the
uptake, noticed that every time a cocky ploughed
a certain field in a certain direction with his
milk-white draught-horse heavy enemy shelling
where it would do most harm followed. A
trap was laid and the spy was caught. Before he
went up against a wall he was persuaded to talk,
and a few well-placed salvos reduced to rubble
th w German 0.p., which was the belfry of a
church in a village just behind his lines. There-
after white horses weren’t so popular among
French agriculturists in the war area.
* * * *
“F.S.”: G. Bernard Shaw has come
to light with a protest in the “Times”
against the past participles of irregular
verbs and adherence to the Phoenician
alphabet, which costs Britain the price of
a battleship every year in writing and
printing superfluous letters. He advocates
the use of monosyllabic pidgin English
with an alphabet of 17 letters on the
lines of the English developed by the
Chinese for commercial purposes. Acting-
Professor H. G. Seccombe, of the Chair
of English at the University of Mel-
bourne, objects to this on the ground
that the very small vocabulary of pidgin
renders it unsuitable for expression of
thoughts on an enormous range of
subjects. I have a temperamental dis-
like of pidgin, never having attained to
any competence in the language during
a long residence in Asia, but I am in-
dined to be on Shaw’s side in any con-
troversy about English,
* * * *
Avon”: Maoriland’s war Cabinet has
decided that the continuous fire-watching
service maintained all last year by E-P-S.
wardens, together with permanent light-
in S restrictions, are no longer necessary.
The E.P.S. organisation is still there, or
course, ready to function in any emer-
gency, an d there are arrangements tor
dowsing all glims if an alarm is B iven -
But, save f° r sea-front lighting in Welhng-
t°n an d Auckland, and in certain other
instances, where precautionary measures
still obtain, there is a reversion to the
conditions prior to Dec. 7, 1941.
* * * *
“23-4”: A U.S. Supreme Court ruling
that the test of patent validity—and for
the matter of that, copyright—is whether
or not the invention reveals a “flash of
creative genius” has brought the “Scien-
tific American” up in arms. The journal
points to Edison, Bell, Marconi as men
who toiled long and patiently, following
a line of reasoning or a search for a par-
ticular material, and holds that what they
achieved were no flashes but the product
of concentrated research and applied
theory, result of plenty of trial and error.
Whatever the case in regard to mechani-
cal inventions, the great novel, play,
poem or short story is no flash, but a
creation of tears and sweat. “Flashes
of creative genius” may be encountered
plentifully in nature, but I doubt whether
man experiences many of them. Char-
acteristic Australian resource in an emer-
gency is another matter. ,
* * * *
“Bohemian”: A select committee of
the M.L. House of Representatives has
refused to recommend that Mareo, an
Auckland man twice convicted of wife-
poisoning, shall be tried for the third
time. Mareo and his wife were profes-
sional musicians, and both were veronal
addicts, which complicated the case,
since Mareo was accused of admin-
istering veronal to his wife. After he
had been for years in Mount Eden Gaol
friends who still believe him innocent
communicated with a famous English
specialist, who raised doubts favorable
to Mareo. It was on this basis that a
third trial was asked for.
GUYS AND BLOKES.
“What we call a guy in America, Australians call
a bloke.” — U.S. sergeant in Sydney.
Quaint words, whose etymology
Is hidden in the mists!
The lexicons withhold the key,
It stumps philologists.
1 wonder when and where and why
First into print they broke,
These terms, these times, one’s labelled by —
In their vernacular a “guy,”
In yours and mine a “bloke.”
One diction’ry in which I graze
Affirms that “bloke” we’ve got
From gypsydom. Another says
This theory is rot.
Who shall decide when learned folk
Like these are ranged awry?
The fact remains—O.K. or oke —
That what the Diggers dub a “bloke”
The Doughboys call a “guy.”
When sage old Doctor Johnson tried
Our words of speech to map,
To human beings were ne’er applied
Such terras as “cove” or “chap.”
W’hat anger would have lit his eye
Had anybody spoke
In his august fraternity
Of David Garrick as a “guy”
Or Boswell as a “bloke”!
When Webster’s massive brows were bent
To furnish old and young
With all the lore he’d gleaned anent
Our Anglo-Saxon tongue,
He had no vision to evoke
Words that he couldn’t descry.
How could he guess by what strange stroke
In days to come the British “bloke”
Should be the Yankee “guy”?
Queer, is it not, when none can state
How words like these began,
They’re firmly fixed as adequate
Terms to denote a man.
Urey serve alike for low and high,
More formal tags to cloak.
They mean the same. But note hereby
That while MacArthur is a “guy”
Our Blarney is a “bloke.”
N.S.W.
T. THE R.
TALE OF A TAXI.
“Sydney taxi-driver, charged with exceeding th?
speed limit: ‘I was driving a bishop, y’r Worship,
and hurrying because he had to catch a train.’
“The Beak: ‘Bishops,should not encourage drivers
to break traffic regulations.’ ”
His face was lit with honest pride.
He hit the breeze with emphasis,
Twas seldom when for hire he plied
He reached distinction such as this.
For taxi-men ’tis passing rare
To have a bishop for a fare.
One sees him drive like Nimshi’s son,
With more excuse perhaps for speed.
Still, Jehu’s job was easier done,
Seeing he never had the need
To watch his steps or mind his stops
Because of lynx-eyed traffic cops.
Our trains, ‘tis known, for none will wait
Unless expressly notified;
And travellers arriving late
Are not infrequently descried
Left on the platform in the lurch—
A sadd’ning prospect for the Church!
Alas' the Beak proved grim and stern.
Holding the law had been defied.
With magisterial unconcern
He swept the specious plea aside
That any risks a chap may dare
Who has a bishop for his fare.
For me the story ends a bit
Too soon —I’ve quoted all I’ve got—
But still I’m wondering, I admit,
Whether the train was caught or not;
And, though the driver toed the line,
Whether the cleric paid the fine.
N.S.W.
IFORD.


“Pitt St.”: Sydney, according to its
oldest newspaper, spent its Christmas
“quietly and in keeping with the Prime
Minister’s appeal for austerity.” Did it,
indeed? “One of the worst brawls
ever seen in Sydney occurred at
Bondi Junction” (same newspaper) ;
military police were tackled by a mob at
Surry Hills ; service men slept in parks
and laneways while politicians argued
about providing a hostel for them ; police
confiscated beer and whisky worth £lOOO
in a raid at Surry Hills ; vice squads
rounded up 84 girls, 40 of them under
18, in the week ; a girl was shot dead in
an air-raid shelter ; another was taken
by a shark ; a squad of police
had to be called to move jammed pas-
sengers from a tram which stopped traffic
for 20 minutes ; Randwick visitors were
held up by Commonwealth men and
“frisked” for race glasses ; high humidity
and rain added to the summer heat, and
at Gosford industrial school 23 Clive
Evatt “individualists” had their Christ-
mas dinner, got their presents and bolted,
bringing the number of bolters from the
place to 382 for the year.
“Spokeshave”: At the height of the
merry season it was an education to fight
one’s way through the mob storming the
redoubts of the big stores in Melbourne,
manned by harassed and exhausted assis-
tants. The largest has for years had a
notice in its lifts informing the public
that its staff is there for the public’s con-
venience, the customer is always right and
whatever happens will be assured of re-
ceiving courtesy and politeness. Mel-
bourne’s population has been brought up
to be polite, and the announcement is
superfluous. It was a humid, steamy,
enervating afternoon, and in entering a
lift a woman of at least 18st. placed her
hoof on the foot of the little old liftman.
“I’m sorry,” she remarked. “That’s all
right, madam,” said the liftman; “a
pleasure.”
* * ■* V
“Bumpk”: The editor of an army
magazine published in Melbourne got a
request from Milne Bay for a correspon-
dence course in refrig. engineering. The
editor has an uneasy feeling that his leg
is being pulled, but can’t be sure.
* # * »
“Tuart”: The dead year was a bad one
for the queer breed of “female imper-
sonators” —at least, in Sydney. One,
trying to cross Oxford-street in the black-
out, was run over and killed. A com-
panion of the deceased put on his last
act in a night club on December 22.
“Dressed in a mixture of male and female
attire” (I quote one of our evening papers,
relaxing, as it were, after wiping out the
Hun armies), and with his dial rouged
and lipsticked, the unfortunate creature
minced up to a mariner from foreign
parts and tried to kiss him. He repeated
the performance several times, it being
part of his appalling “show” ; then the
mariner lost his temper and threw a
punch. Though not particularly hard, it
landed, and the “female impersonator”
went down, to be carried out feet first;
and he never stood on them again. It
came out at the inquest that the poor
wretch was not paid by the proprietor of
the joint: he did his degenerate busi-
ness for a “shower.”
» # sfc *
“Bughouse”: It’s an odd thing about
the bicycle (coming back into its own in
these days of petrol restrictions) that
when it attained to ball bearings and
pneumatic tyres it had practically
reached perfection. And that was 50 years
ago. During those 50 years I’ve seen all
sorts of gadgets tried out: roller chains,
cog gears, lever chains, fancy ideas in
driving wheels and sprockets and all sorts
of cranks and spindles, but not one has
succeeded in increasing efficiency much
above J. K. Starley’s old Rover model.
The bike remains the only vehicle of
transport that weighs in itself less than
a quarter of the load it is designed to
carry. Railway trains, motor-cars, -bikes
and -trucks, even aeroplanes, all require
superior weight to carry their load, but
a bicycle weighing only 201 b. can safely
take a load of 2001 b. Nor does any other
machine return so high a percentage of
energy applied to it. A rider can pedal
a bicycle 40 miles with no more effort
and certainly less fatigue than he could
walk or run 10 miles.
* * * *
“Craiser”: Official propaganda is much
better organised in this war than in the
1914-18 affair, and in Melbourne, where
loudspeakers are erected at all the princi-
pal street corners, it is a physical impos-
sibility to escape it for more than a few
minutes. A vast army of scribes must
be somewhere or other preparing matter
for public utterance, but I can’t help won-
dering whether they are any more effec-
tive than a friend of mine is in his domes-
tic circle. For the past three and a half
years, firmly entrenched behind the morn-
ing paper, he has been instructing his
family on all aspects of the world’s situ-
ation at breakfast, lunch and dinner. The
other morning his five-year-old hopeful
brought him up all standing by asking:
“Daddy, is Hitler an Aussie?”
* * * *
“Jack Point”; Albert Richard Wetjen
has been at it again, telling us some-
thing of the life of the sailormen who,
with their Kanaka crews, trade between
Brisbane and the Straits Islands. The
scene opens with the schooner Annabelle
(Porpoise Bailey, master) “rotting along-
side a Brisbane dock with no cargoes in
sight and the debts piling up.” The Anna-
belle is mortgaged to the local Chinese
merchant, who has advanced a three-
months’ supply of stores. Things are
looking black when a globe-trotter with
a scientific friend and the latter’s glamor-
ous daughter charter the Annabelle for
a cruise to Riana Island, a volcanic speck
not far from Brisbane, Porpoise having
heard the globe-trotter “blowing his lip
at the pub and had the boys drop a bug in
his ear: you tell him something can’t be
done and he’s got to do it.” The “some-
thing” is revealed as the capturing of an
unknown species of snake which “sits
up and spits at you.” The snake, of
course, really does not exist, but Porpoise
makes good that deficiency by taking
along a dozen or so brown snakes which
he had bought, at a shilling a head, “from
a blackfeller just outside Brisbane.”
And so to Riana Island —very unprosper-
ously; the voyagers “touched half a
dozen Straits Islands looking for trade
and pickings were terrible: a couple
of hungry Sydney schooners had been
ahead of us.” However, what with snake-
hunting, fishing and love-making, a good
time is had by all.
“She was wrecked ten years ago, mister, but I'm not revealing 'er name
for security reasons."
“S.T.S.”: A new angle on the Japs.
Vivian Robson, B.Sc., the English astro-
loger, shows that in their emperor’s
horoscope “Neptune occupies the
seventh house, and is afflicted by the
Moon from the ninth house” ; there-
fore Japan will always be in danger
of defeat at sea so long as Hiro-
hito remains emperor. And, as
“Neptune occupies Gemini, the ruling
sign of the U.5.A.,” it is from there that
the Jap defeat will come, “the American
Fleet being,” says Robson naively, “more
dangerous to Japan than the English or
the Australian.”
» * * *
“Cauboy”: The unsoundness of the
advice allegedly proffered by Melba to
Dame Clara Butt, “sing ’em muck,” has
once more been demonstrated by the
season of free concerts given by leading
virtuosi to the fighting services at the
Assembly Hall in Melbourne. Never has
the standard of programmes been more
consistently elevated and never have con-
certs been better attended. As a matter of
fact, I doubt if Melba ever uttered those
words. If she did, her own practice
completely contradicted it. Like all really
great singers, she was acutely sensitive
to the feelings of her audience, and if she
felt she had lost its allegiance she would
instantly suspend her programme and
start singing “Home, Sweet Home,” or
“Swanee River.” She intuitively knew
that it was no use singing to the unsym-
pathetic. The moment she got the sym-
pathy flowing again in her direction she
went back to her programme. That was
the secret of her popularity. She made
her audiences feel, not that she was sing-
ing down to them, but that she understood
them. Not having her instinctive under-
standing, the civic authorities, when they
gave a concert to Australian and Allied
fighting men, tried to ram down their
collective throat a partly high-brow,
partly popular concert. Half the audience
walked out when they heard the low-brow
stuff and the other half followed them
when they heard the high-brow.
♦ * * *
“V.C.”: A little man with a worried
look sidled into the suburban chemist's
shop and whispered furtively “Look,
could y’ dig me up a bottle of olive oil?
Must have it. Doctor’s orders. Got a
stomach ulcer, see?” He produced a
doctor’s note to back him up. The
chemist disappeared and returned.
“Here,” he said, “and keep it dark. If
some people knew I had olive oil they’d
rush me.” The little bloke muttered his
thanks and made for the door, where he
collided with a large lady and dropped
his parcel. The bottle didn’t break, but
the wrapping came off and her eagle eye
spotted the label. “Olive oil,” she yelped
and whirled on the chemist accusingly.
“You said you hadn’t any. Oh, I must
have some for little Joy’s hair.” The
chemist did some quick thinking.
“Madam,” he barked, “that isn’t olive
oil. It’s a substitute that fellow tried
to palm off on to me. Get out, you,
before I call the police!” The lady was
convinced. After she’d departed I asked
“What’s wrong with her kid’s head?”
“Kid, be jiggered,” he replied; “little
Joy’s her flamin’ Pekinese.”
* * * *
“Loo”: “Look,” said Bill, pointing to
a chap crossing the street, “see him?
He was best man at my wedding.” “But
you’re a bachelor,” we argued. “Too
right! ” said Bill. “I was right in the door-
way of the registry office, though. The
tabby thought she had me. I thought
so, too. Well, a best man’s supposed to
be helpful, isn’t he? That’s why I call
that chap my best man. He was a perfect
stranger passing by as me and the girl
stood in the doorway of the registry
office, and he hissed from one side of
his mouth ‘Don’t be a goat; she can’t run
in them heels.’ It was an idea, so I
bolted. I’ve been lucky ever since.”
* * * *
“Curtain Raiser”: Another infant
prodigy of music has made her appear-
ance in Melbourne and received enthusi-
astic plaudits. Hundreds of mothers took
their children to hear her, hoping to
stimulate their offspring in the same direc-
tion. They ought to ask themselves
where the hundreds of infant prodigies
who have previously made their appear-
ance in Melbourne are now. Most of
the critics who praise these youngsters
wouldn’t be able even to tell you their
names if you asked them. Yet there is no
reason to believe that the ones who failed
and gave up music or are now fiddling in
cinema orchestras or strumming at
dance palays were any less intelli-
gent than the tiny few who have suc-
ceeded in maintaining their interest.
Any competent musician will tell you that
these early popular successes are the most
dangerous things in the world for the
young musician—and, in fact, for any
artist. If the 14-year-old girl who made
such a hit in Melbourne played no better
at 30 than she does now at 14, nobody
would think anything of her. What ex-
cites the public is not the quality of the
music but that a girl of 14 should be
able to do it at all. She will have to go
through years of heartbreaking study be-
fore she can call herself a first-rank per-
former. After one of Menuhin’s recitals
in Australia a mother is alleged to have
slapped her ten-year-old daughter and
said; “That ought to teach you to prac-
tise!” Unfortunately, all it would have
done was to teach the child to be am-
bitious ; and nobody gets very far on
mere ambition.
* * * *
“Pawang”: A tremendous fuss is being-
kicked up in Melbourne because it is
proposed to erect a dehydrating factory
opposite the new Royal Melbourne Hos-
pital, and the State Government is talk-
ing about passing legislation against it
on the ground that the factory will dis-
figure the surroundings of the hospital.
The objectors might as reasonably pro-
test against such a factory being located
anywhere near any hospital. If there is
anything more healthy than drying sound
meat for human consumption and any-
thing more unhealthy than a place where
the sick, the diseased and the injured are
received for treatment I would like to
know it. A hospital is not a glory to a
city but a reproach. Yet people are talk-
ing in the dailies as if the vast £1,000,000
sickbay was one of the jewels of Mel-
bourne’s crown. An enthusiastic corre-
spondent described it as the most beau-
tiful building in the city. But they would
scarcely maintain that the size and splen-
dor of its hospitals are an index to the
healthiness of a country.
* * *
“Lumber”: A London cable tells of
a process for using sawdust to generate
gas for automobile propulsion,
and says that tuppenceworth
of sawdust will drive a 12-h.p.
car 50 miles. The sawdust
process may not do all that is
claimed of it —an engineering
friend of mine has a large
scrapbook full of newspaper
clippings about inventions
which were going to revolu-
tionise dynamics, mechanics
and industrial economy gener-
ally, and which have all sunk
without a trace —but suppose
it does. Immediate result
should be a vast enhancement
in the value of sawdust, fol-
lowed by a tremendous in-
crease in the price of timber
and a very probable diversion
of all or almost all timber sup-
plies to sawdust manufacture.
This might lead in a few
generations to an exhaustion of
the world’s timber supplies (by
no means inexhaustible) unless
systematic reafforestation is
undertaken. The possibilities
should provide those Maori-
land farmers who are preach-
ing man’s sacred duty to the
soil with a very powerful argu-
ment.
“Sevener”: If golfers will surrender
old balls, not too much knocked about,
they will receive tuppence each for them
and be registered in a sort of priority to
receive reconditioned balls as they be-
come available. You ought to hear
McPutt on it: “At preesen’ mairket
values ony guid ol’ ba’ thot’s feet enoo’
tae heet is wairth two bob o’ any men’s
money. Tuppence! Tuppence! Losh,
’tis har-r-rd enoo’ tae enjoy the game
these days, wha’ wi’ the meelitairy
thromping all o’er the fairways wi’ their
awfu’ boots an’ yon seecertairy ever call-
in’ for austeer-r-ity wi’ the divots, but
tuppence! Tuppence!” All the same, a
lot of golf maniacs are finding just how
good a golf ball is. People who wouldn’t
use a ball after a couple of rounds, be-
lieving it was “done,” are now teeing
the same one up for the twentieth time
and getting just as good response from it.
Personally, I always suspected the idea,
assiduously cultivated by pros, and golf
writers, that for good golf you needed
a new ball every round —some made it
every hole.
* * * *
‘XTQ.”: The ruling passion! Two men,
arrested at a two-up school in Mel-
bourne, were charged and released on
bail. A couple of hours later another
two-up school was raided and the two
men were again arrested.
* * * *
“Looby”; Regulations got a kick in
the neck from some determined friends
of mine. They managed to send me a
“Merry Christmas” telegram. There
was no trouble about it. It was sent
from G.P.0., Sydney, on the usual tele-
gram form. I admit it was enclosed in
an envelope with an ordinary letter But
still, you see what I mean.


ABORIGINALITIES
“Old-timer”: It was blazing hot. Under
the pepper-trees beside the pub Calico
Charlie and Quicksilver Ned drowsed
in the shade, waiting for Steam Engine
Larrigan, who never let weather or other
obstacles stay the path of his battling.
Came the sound of hounds giving tongue,
and Calico and Quicksilver, knowing full
well that anything that would make a
dog bark on such a day must be
abnormal, sat up. Their eyes nearly
popped out. Coming towards them, in
a lather of sweat, was Steam Engine,
muffled to the eyes in a heavy overcoat.
Around him cavorted several assorted
curs, displaying a keen interest in his new
garment. “Blimey,” whispered the awed
Calico, “he’s gone mad.” “Mad be
blowed,” panted Steam Engine. “I
pitched a tale to some woman down there
and she takes me in an’ gives me a cup o’
tea, then drags this coat out an’ asts me
t’ try it on. ‘lt’ll do y’ f’r the winter,’
she says. So I slips it on an’ she ducks
out f’r a minute, then comes back an
says it’s a great fit. I get goin’ in a hurry,
’cos I can see she’s wonderin’ why I don’t
take the thing off. I mumble somethin’
about a hole ip me pants an’ duck. Y’ see,
while she’s outa the kitchen I finds these
big pockets in this here coat an’ slips in
a coupla pound o’ steak, half a loaf o’
bread an’ two bottles o’ beer that happen
t’ be on view in the open ice chest.” S.E.
wiped a fevered brow and, with a “Come
on before I ruddy well faint,” led his
delighted mates to the river bank, where,
shortly, all three entered into their
reward.
* * * *
“.Sailor Bill”: I’ve often heard it said
that a snake won’t bite more than once
at a time. Thought it was gospel, too.
Then I jumped down from the wagon on
this N.Q. farm fairly on top of a brown
that was lurking in the long grass. Joe
promptly flung a coil round my right
ankle and pushed his fangs into the leg
of my trousers three times. Luckily the
trousers were loose, and if Joe’s fangs
went through my pants they only struck
empty air inside. Perhaps the fact that
he tasted no blood worried him, for he
didn’t try to bite again, but when I kicked
him off he slithered towards me again.
The brown is like that. Then I walloped
him with a stick of cane.
“Fitzjay”; Long Tom threw himself
down in the shade of a clump of she-oaks
and, his foot striking a fallen member
of the group, disturbed the siesta of a
brown snake. Joe sought sanctuary up
a leg of Tom’s trousers. Tom kept
silent and still, except that with his hand
he executed a few passes across his arm
in imitation of playing the violin. We
took the hint. Fred jumped on his pony
and raced to a farmhouse about half a
mile away, where there was a chap who
had a fiddle ; and as soon as the musician
arrived he started playing for all he was
worth. In a couple of minutes the snake
appeared at the foot of Tom’s pants,
emerging dreamily to the strains of the
music. When the last bit of the wriggler
had cleared port Tom sprang up, and
with a swipe of a shovel chopped the
intruder in two.
“Ajax”: That germ-fearful modern
mother who meditated an anti-tetanus in-
jection when her infant got a scratch on
the toe (B. 16/12/’42) reminds me of a
pal who trod on some broken glass when
playing barefoot around the stables as
a youngster. It made a deep, jagged cut
which bled profusely. He staunched it
by packing the wound tightly with dry
horse-manure and proceeded happily with
his game. He returned from Tobruk a
while back with a mention in dispatches,
and was in Papua the last I heard, but I
doubt if he has ever taken a bigger risk
than he did the day he light-heartedly
plugged himself up with what might
easily have been a whole colony of
tetanus spores.
* * * *
“Millaa”: As a change from the
eternal shearing and post-splitting records
I offer this one by Bert Locarninni.
Bert has had 19 capsizes in 17
years with his heavily-laden 1924-model
timber truck, which is affectionately
known throughout the Atherton Table-
land (Q.) as Rosebud. Bert and Rose-
bud both carry a few honorable scars,
but have managed to escape serious
damage. On one occasion Rosebud de-
cided to have a roll in the centre of
Atherton township; Bert promptly
righted her, reloaded the logs in the main
street and then delivered them straight to
the ramp.
* H* *
“C.E.”: Oux district V.D.C. (at an
undisclosed non-operational base) was
'Keep in step, cant you ?”
practising its masterpiece a secret
attack. At a given signal the advance-
under-cover was to be halted ; then I
was to try to discern individual
positions. The signal came, and from
my vantage point I wheeled to survey
the hillside. Instantly I was reminded
that we had not as yet solved the prob-
lem of our eighteen-stoner. There’s not
a tree in the district to fit him ; conse-
quently he is as unpopular with his
attacking comrades as with the guerrilla
stretcher-bearers. Next, on top of the
ridge a red-and-white bull snorted bel-
ligerently at an unnatural bump on the
lower limb of an apple-box, while,
further down, O’Reilly’s poddy foal per-
sistently tried to' pick up a pair of
wriggling khaki pants. Several misshapen
anthills were wearing hats, and, sprinkled
over the whole area, local mongs stood
beside bushes wagging their tails de-
lightedly. As the C.O. said, if it wasn’t
for the flora and the fauna he’d turn on
quite a show.
* * * *
“Mat’s Mate”: “I struck one o’ them
poet blokes once,” said the big fellow,
“an’ we do a couple o’ hundred miles of
Riverina together. His lurk was to write
bits o’ poetry an’ sell ’em t’ the shops in
the towns. F’r instance, he’d see a cat-
up joint an’ print:
Alone upon a lonely track,
A man lay sleepin’ on his back,
A vision rose before his eyes,
Brown’s pies.
Get it? Well, it was a pretty good lurk
an’ it kept us fed an’ bedded an’ cashed
f’r quite a bit. Then we got into a big
town an’ had a real good spin—l shoulda
told y’ I used t’ canvass f’r orders an’
deliver the goods—an’ me poet mate goes
on the tank. He’s pretty well blithered
when along comes a undertaker an’ wants
some poetry done f’r him. Me mate
promises t’ do it, blarneyin’ about the
sombre solemnity of the sepulchre or
somethin’, an’ the undertaker goes off.
Ten minutes later another undertaker
drifts up an’ orders a bit o’ poetry for
himself. I see a devilish sort o’ light in
me mate’s eyes, an’ presently he gets
busy, prints a couple of cards an’ gives
’em t’ me t’ deliver. Be th Is time I’m
sick of his pieces, so don’t even look at
them. I canter up, deliver both, collect
and get back. Me mate has the swags
rolled an’ hustles me outa that place in
a hell of a hurry. It’s only when we’re
10 mile out I find out what he done.
Yair, he’d given ’em both the same piece,
readin’:
Ashes t’ ashes an’ dust t’ dust,
If Smith don’t get y’, Jackson must.
Y’ never can tell with these poet blokes.”
* * *
“M.U.R.”: In my experience when
death from old age comes to the dog he
goes off into the scrub somewhere and
quietly hands in his name and record. The
domestic cat prefers to make the house-
hold aware of its loss by choosing some
part of the house for its last breaths. I
can understand a wounded or sick
cat or dog making for home and human
help, but what’s the explanation of their
choice when they feel the end is near?
« » * *
“Clyde”; Old Dutch found the trough
empty on a hot day. She snuffed along
it, switched her tail, went away a few
yards and came back. Then she in-
spected the 200-gallon iron ship’s tank on
the stand, walked from it to the trough
and back again, nosing along the bit of
guttering tied from tap to trough. She
stood idly for some minutes; then
she went to the tank again, whinnied and
threw her head about. Then she backed
up to the tank and put her heels into it,
and kept on putting them into it until the
noise brought her owner and a drink. Did
she kick the tank in baffled rage or to
attract attention?
* * * *
“Hux”: Just why a laboratory for tick
serum should be located in Melbourne,
where dogs don’t suffer from ticks, in-
stead of in the tick belt of N.S.W. is an-
other Government mystery barren of
solution. Certain bush fauna —the bandi-
coot and echidna —which act as hosts to
the tick, as well as the ticks themselves,
have to be sent down to Melbourne so
that the serum can be produced. On
arrival there the animals find they can’t
stand the colder climate and beat a hasty
if not immediate exit. In such cases the
guinea-pig has to oblige again, and the
result is not so satisfactory. Ticks lose
so much virility in transport that double
the number are required. Common-
wealth Laboratories, which make the
serum, are now going out flat on army
vaccines. The stuff’s guaranteed to cure
80 per cent, of the dogs attacked with
tick paralysis, but at the moment no
N.S.W. vet. has supplies and shortages
are reported from Taronga Park Zoo.
Owing to heavy rains ticks are abundant
everywhere along the coast, and dogs are
dying in hundreds. The serum has even
been found good for humans, several of
whom have been recently attacked.
* * * *
“Anthropo”: A few years ago, before
reciprocal slaughter became the focus of
human interest, ingenious observers
worked on the theory that certain land
areas of the globe produced particular
types of men and would continue to re-
produce such characteristics, even though
the aboriginal type was supplanted
by a higher and totally different type
brought from some distant part of the
globe. Thus the Australian soil inside a
few generations might be expected to
produce a white with many of the
features of the vanishing aboriginal. Con-
templating the growing fashion of near-
nudity. one sees that scientific theory in
operation. The body type tends to
move towards the aboriginal. The British
type was heavy, stocky ; the abo. type
tall and rangy. The Australian Digger
is famous the world over for the latter
characteristics. Courage? The abo. had
plenty of it, as much as the Briton who
came to play the overlord to him. The
Australian soil isn’t likely to breed the
faint-hearted. The abo. was proud ; in-
feriority complex had no part in his
make-up. How like the Aussie soldier!
But the abo. liked to 101 l on the beach in
the sun or by the river in the shade. He
liked, too, to put off till tomorrow what
should be done today. How like the —
well, never mind. But let us beware.
* * * *
“Sur Cingle”: A swarthy and betur-
baned son of the Prophet, he was put
on as a rouseabout. On Saturday he an-
nounced: “Can’t work today, boss —to-
day Sunday with my people.” The boss
let him go. Next morning he roused out
Mahomet to cut some wood. “Oh, no,
boss,” protested the shocked son of
Islam. “T’day Christian Sunday —I could
not give the insult to my boss’s religion.
No work today.” That’s why we want a
wood-an’-water joey.
* * * *
“N.”: A woman living in an irrigation
town on the S.A. Murray used to make a
living from selling dressed poultry. She
drove round in a light cart buying the
chooks from farms in the district, her
constant companion a small mong. The
procedure was simple. Arriving at a
farm she went to the fowlyard and chose
her victims, but there was no unseemly
chasing of squawking chooks in a storm
of feathers and profanity. She merely
pointed to the fowl'she wanted and the
pup, working quietly, would corner the
chook and then pounce on it, holding it
down firmly but gently with his fore-
paws. He never bruised his catch and
never caught the wrong bird.
» * * *
“Korongah”: Heavy dressings of
super, having promoted the growth of
clover in my lawns, it is now flowering
profusely and drawing countless hun-
dreds of bees. They’re either deaf or
have no sense of danger, for once they
alight on payable flower-gold not even
my mower with its jangling metal hopper
can frighten them off; consequently
scores of them fall victims to the revolv-
ing cylinder blades. My neighbor says
a similar slaughter of pollen-gatherers
takes place bi-weekly on his lawns.
* * *
“D.R.H.”: I didn’t claim that driving
a tractor in reins was unique (B.
16/12/’42). But the fact that it was so
novel around here as to be thought a fit
subject for cinematograph-recording in-
clined me to think that it would be news
to many others, excepting always those
smart alecks who are never surprised. As
to strippers going out with the horn
gramophone, any practical farmer can
tell “Underbool” the advantages of using
a stripper for small crops, especially
when labor is scarce. And the man of
whom I wrote has appendicitis.
* * * *
“Casey”: Always regarded the bob-
tail goanna as being in the snail class ;
but one member of the family recently
made me wonder. Was slipping over the
corrugations at about 40 when I spotted
Sleepy dozing on the road. I dislike
running over these fellows, but on this
occasion it was Sleepy or a pothole, so
I sent up a prayer for his nibs and
dodged the hole. Sleepy came to life
with a split-second to spare and covered
the few feet to the opposite side of the
road in a manner which would have done
credit to his long-tailed relative.
* * * *
“Gumsucker”: Mrs. Murphy owned a
parrot with a vivid vocabulary, obtained
on a round of shearing sheds, the
late Murphy having been- a cook.
To evoke a flood oi remarks all one
had to do was run a finger down the
wires of the cage, a practice indulged in
by nephews and other ne’er-do-wells.
There came a day when his Reverence,
new to the parish, was making his first
pastoral visit. “It’s a fine bird you’ve
got here, Mrs. Murphy,” he remarked,
running his finger down the cage. Mrs.
Murphy silently prayed that the bird
would be stricken dumb. The parrot glared
at the black-coated figure and never said
a word. “No talker, I see,” said the good
man, rattling the wires again. And still
Poll said never a word. After the gate
latch had clicked behind him Mrs.
Murphy, wondering if the bird had really
been struck dumb, ran her finger down
the wires—and got the entire repertoire.
THE ODDS ARE EVEN.
I have no time to study Phoebus’ rise,
To watch those crimson banners blaze the skies,
While turgid Night, embittered by defeat.
Cringes and wilts in sullen, dour retreat.
Not to the bugles’ martial dawn alarm —
Eager to summon me from blankets warm;
Not to the stirring tramp of marching feet
Do I respond, nor hold their music sweet.
Mine not to gibe and jeer the yellow foe —
Only to wish his heathen gods would go
And jump into the lake, with all their crew,
So that the lake would boil like witches’ brew.
1 did not hark to Mars, his clarion call;
Nor am I fain on battlefield to fall
To win posthumous glory for my name.
I’m quite content to live: thanks just the same.
It may be that the iron’s touched my soul;
Perchance I harbor cravings dark and foul;
I wouldn’t know. I’m feeling simply bored —
Up to the neck with dull resentment stored.
There was a day when I, like other men,
Knew that 1 had a job to do. And then
Turned from the life I knew with keen regret;
Hating the need; but thinking, “It’s a bet! ”
Shall I return? God knows I’m eager there.
But if it’s not in words, I’m well aware
I may not come. But all that’s —just the job.
I have no time to cheer; nor yet to sob.
Let Luna languid rise; let old Sol set;
Let jewelled planets cast their glist’ring net;
Let tempests roar the call to arms —I’ll yet
Say with a shrug; “You’re on. I’ll take the
A.I.F.
C. R. D.


“Betcha”: Jim was mustering when
his neighbor rode up. “Came over t’ see
if y’d give us a hand with the dipping,
Jim,” he explained. “Can’t get a man
nowhere these days.” “Sure,” said Jim
heartily. “Be right over in the mornin’
if that’ll suit.” Five days later he was
shoving his neighbor’s last batch into the
dip when young Todd arrived. “The
very bloke I’m looking for,” he shouted,
giving Jim a thump that nearly sent him
in after the jumbucks. “Want y’ to help
me run mine through. Righto? Thanks,
old man ; knew y’ wouldn’t mind.” After
a week with Todd Jim went on to help
Simpson out and later spent four days
seeing Dawson through. Next came an
SOS from old Morrison, just had
time to push Morrison’s mob into their
poison bath before racing home to sort
his lambs for the big annual sale. Two
nights later I found him on the top rail
of his yards gazing sorrowfully into
space. “Good sale?” I inquired, joining
him. He nodded. Then, after a few
minutes, “That stock inspector wus
there.” “Huh! Sell your lambs?” He
shook his head slowly at the horizon and
shifted his chin on to his other fist. “No,”
he sighed wearily. “I didn’t sell ’em. But
I’m up at the next District Sessions for
not dippin’ me sheep.”
* * * *
“Ben Cubbin”: How long ago is it
since that episode in the stripper, as
related by “Taylor Ville” (B. 23/12/’42),
occurred? Seeing the machines went out
with profitable wheatgrowing it must be
a sort of forgotten land where “T.V.”
hangs out. Maybe the cockies there
still grow Hard Federation and Mar-
shall’s No. 3, wet-pickle and use the
hand winnower.
* * * *
“Narrin”: The sparrow is a seed-
eater right enough (B. 9/12/’42), as any
cocky who cuts a bit of hay can testify.
But he’s not averse to meat for a change.
Saw one fiat out on the tail of a large white
moth which drifted lightly down-wind.
With his engine revving wildly, the spag
could just keep up to the insect, which
varied its apparently aimless flight by an
occasional vertical lift Other spadgers of
the village joined in, and the chase went
out of sight. As there was no free fight
I assume the moth made a getaway.
* * * *
“Aratta”: Dad, visiting the township,
found a hairdresser—the first in the
place’s history—and decided to give the
newcomer a turn. He had his hair cut
and his whiskers trimmed. He was
rather astonished at his appearance when
the operation was completed, and
emerged from the barber’s shop feeling
very self-conscious. Some time later he
burst into Ryan’s pub and, breasting the
counter with a flaming countenance and
a wild look in his eye, roared at Ryan,
who came forward grinning, “Go on,
blast y’, beef it out; it’s your turn! I
go inter the bank an’ the manager ses
I look like some flamin’ coot called Van
Dyke. Then outside I meet the school-
master, who ses I’m the image of an-
other cove named Francis Drake, and
a few yards further on the John grins at
me and ses I’m the dead spit of a bloke
called Captin Kettle. Now, come on,
who the hell d’ you reckon I’m like?”
“Well, Dad,” Ryan laughed; “I’d say
y’ look like a bloke what’s got his hair
off properly.”
* * * *
“B. A. Ker”: Agree that eel-spearing
is great sport (B. 16/12/’42), although
we always did our spearing with a pitch-
fork as the slippery creatures followed
floodwaters over a spillway. A better
sport is scoop-fishing. With a hurricane-
lamp tied on the prow of the boat, one
man steering, one rowing and the other
standing in the bow, scoop-net poised,
many a summer night have we slipped
“I don't think I could ever go back to housework after this!"
down the dark tidal creek. If the day
has been exceptionally hot a “sitter” can
be expected as a sleepy mullet drowses
on the surface ; but the real thrill is a
school. Suddenly the bowman plunges
his net; there is a swirl, a flurry, silver
streaks leap and shine in the lamplight,
and the race is on! For a mad minute
the oarsman breaks his back trying to
keep with the shoal, the tiller-man tries
to steer the boat and do a bit of scoop-
ing on his own account, generally mak-
ing a mess of both, while the bowman,
frantically dipping and plunging, splashes
all and sundry, perhaps hits the rower in
the nape of the neck with a fish, scoop
or both, and often as not falls in when
the boat strikes a snag. The final score
will reveal more blisters than fish; still,
for sheer exhilaration, it takes beating.
* * * *
“Arev”: Joe Brophy was about to sit
down to midday dinner when a din
from the dogs announced him—a dirty
little man who spoke through nicotine-
stained whiskers. “You’re Joe Brophy,
aren’t you?” Joe wasn’t taken in. He
knew the old chap had got his name from
someone along the road, and merely
grunted. “Well, now! ” said the old-timer.
“I don’t suppose you remember me, but
I knew your grandfather well. Him and
me did the sheds round Cunnamulla in
the old blade days.” “What did y’ say
y’r name was?” asked Joe cautiously.
“Tim Dean,” replied the swaggie. “H’m,”
said Joe, cogitating deeply. “Any relation
to old Sar Dean down the creek?” The
other shook his head seriously. Joe
was enjoying himself now. “Well, me
grandfather’s still in these parts.” The
"...And, ladies, the manufacturers of ‘ Bonko' think it only fitting to
offer a booby prize also!”
peripatetic one looked surprised. “But I
thought” he began. Joe didn’t wait
for the old chap to finish.- “He’s not far
away,” he said. “You go along this road
until you come to the old brick-kiln.
You turn right along the red bush road,
go about half a mile and you’ll come
to a white gate. Go right in. You’ll
find him a bit changed from the old days
though.” The swagman hesitated as if
he didn’t like the idea of a walk ; but
Joe had already turned on his heel and
gone back to the kitchen. Mrs. Brophy
looked at Joe. “What a trick to play on
anyone,” she said, “directing him to the
cemetery!” Joe nodded. “Well, that’s
where granddad’s been for 54 years, isn’t
it? And if that bloke barbered with
him he musta been a wizard with the
blades at two years of age!”
“Bo”: Larkin, who runs the store at
Yellagibba, is one of those men who
can’t stop talking even when he’s up to
his neck in work. It was during the rush
on Christmas Eve when old Dawson and
his wife came in from the hills to get
all their stuff. The wind was whipping
clouds of dust in the door, and Larkin
opened up on his favorite subject as he
went around getting the various things
on Dawson’s order. “The trouble with
this here town, Dan,” he said as he
climbed aloft to get a four-gallon bucket,
“is that the shire mob don’t understand
anything or give a damn about hygiene.
No system o’ waterin’ to keep down the
germ-laden dust on days like this. No
wonder people get crook with all the
wogs floatin’ round (righto, Tom, get that
roll o’ coir mattin’ out to Mr. Dawson’s
gig, will y’). I do me best sprinklin’
water round now an’ again, but it beats
y’. Trouble is one man’s careful but the
next bloke never gives a hang. They’re
like that here.” Larkin descended with
the bucket, drew a mighty breath and
blew about a pound of dust over the
open box of dates on the counter. As he
was wiping the rest off with his horny
mitt young Aggie came in from the resi-
dence at the back holding an open
envelope. “Hey, Pop,” she said; “got
something to stick this? There’s no
gum on it.” Larkin searched among the
papers at the end of the counter fruit-
lessly ; then, opening a 71b. tin of cocky’s
joy, he dipped his finger in and smeared
it along the envelope edge. As he banged
uie lid back on again Larkin said
The trouble, Dan, is that none of our
blasted councillors are hygiene-conscious
enough!”
* * * *
“A.”: Having a queenless hive I
thought to unite it with a rather weak hive
possessing a strong young queen, placing
the queenless hive on top, with a sheet of
newspaper separating the two colonies —a
very effective method of uniting in ordi-
nary cases. But although all precautions
were taken, such as spraying the inside
of both hives with dilute essence of
cloves, which gave both the same scent,
I was surprised next day to notice numer-
ous corpses being dragged out of the
lower hive. Investigating, I found that
hundreds of bees of the queenless hive
had been massacred. The dividing paper,
which should have been removed only
gradually, was torn in great rents where
the legions from the queened hive had
surged upwards, evidently aware that the
monstrosity of laying workers with their
drone progeny had been foisted upon
them and determined to destroy the
menace with the least possible delay.
* * • ♦
“Propalong”: “Y’ can’t beat the old
red kelpie for brains,” said Lance. “Com-
ing down from Queensland with 10,000
woollies, we ran into the father of all dust-
storms. We had ’em in two mobs, and
that day there was only a nigger with the
tail lot, but as he had old Boxer and a
little black-and-tan bitch called Nellie
1 didn’t worry till things became real bad.
Then I rode back To pick ’em up. I
rode for hours, but nary a sheep. Then,
huddled up in a bit of a washaway, I
came across the boong. He'd lost the
sheep, too. The storm got worse, so we
camped for three days before starting t’
look for them sheep. The lead lot were
all right, but although we rode for a
fortnight the tail mob had disappeared—
-5000 sheep just vanished. It was two
years before I was that way again, going
up with a plant to pick up a mob o’
cattle —no more sheep for me. Then
one day the horsetailer came in end said
he had seen a mob of sheep way off to
the north. Well, I rode over to ask about
feed up the track. But I couldn’t see any
men, though sheep were spread out on the
feed. They were wilder than most road
mobs, and they took off when they saw
me. Just then a dog barked and three or
four mongs started to go round the mob.
Then I saw a waterhole and, so help me!
there was old Boxer and Nell lying on
a big pile of woolly sheepskins. Boxer
was watching the mob, and presently he
barked sharply and the other dogs sat
down to watch the sheep. Then the old
rascal saw me and jumped up, pleased as
Punch. I saw then that the dogs out
with the sheep were his pups. What did
I do? What would any white man have
done? I said ‘G’day’ to the old dog and
rode off and left him with his mob.
Reckon he’d earned ’em.”
* H= * *
“Gumsucker”: Out for rabbits, we
took Darky along. It was country
of six-inch grass, hillocks and occasional
boulders. Presently we were petrified by
the sight of a big black snake rearing as
though coming towards us. But Darky
was ahead of him ; with a low growl the
old sheep-herder leaped in. What hap-
pened was almost too quick for scared
kids to follow, but presently the snake
was in its death squirms, with its head
half bitten off, while Darky was running
around as though trying to wipe his
mouth on the grass. We got him home,
but he was clearly a goner. “If we could
only find where he’s been bitten we might
do something,” said Mum. “Look at
his tongue,” suggested old Dick, the sun-
downer. The dog’s tongue was slightly
swollen and as inflexible as a piece of
sole leather. The two deadly punctures
were there. The snake had struck like a
flash, getting home on the dog’s most
vulnerable spot. We could do nothing
except dig a grave under the big apple-
tree.
* * * *
“Len Steener”; Evening was approach-
ing when I saw him. He was a ragged,
stubbly, chunky swaggie, and it seemed
somewhat incongruous that he should be
carefully carrying a bundle of pink
flowers, some perfumed pale ones and
a large bundle of greenery. “Who puts
his trust in nature sleeps wondrous sound
indeed,” I improvised, if cynically. After
cogitation he grinned back. “You’re
right, mate. Y’see, it’s this way. I can’t
sleep on an empty stomach, so I boils a
great feed of these here marshmallows.
I can’t sleep if me rheumatics is bad,
so I doses meself with tea made of this
here centaury. I can’t sleep, either, if
the fleas is too bad, so I puts this here
pennyroyal between the—er—sheets. I
do like to enjoy my sleep—in my own
way.”
BEFORE “LIGHTS OUT.”
Kirribilli in the evening, and the bridge against
the sky:
Iron on the opal west and iron looming high:
Steel against the newborn stars when Hesperus
is low:
Back to Kirribilli in the evening I would go.
By the headland on the bosom of the coa-
black bubbling tide
Swirl the broken emeralds where offshore lan-
terns ride;
Voices of derision from the ferries far away,
Splendid in their diamonds to call at Neutral
Bay!
Barrenjoey ind Kurraba and the South Steyne
hurry by,
Shrilling with the seabirds their proud and
solemn cry;
Tang of spray and bush-flowers spice the
harbor breeze —
Say, shall I forget them in other days than
these?
Egypt’s gods are old and grey, their eyes are
full of sleep.
But I’d gather all the kingdoms of the East
for them to keep
Could I hear the night-wind calling all the
stars across the sea,
With the sound and shapes of harbor craft
around me at the Quay.
Middle East.
Y.A.D. ELVA SIMMONS.


ycfuJi
FOR domestic ALVBS
SELECT., vn, WC£
CQns ® nr e r Sj a ! nnies and
your v .
. for y°« e radlo ! 2 t isn ®eded
ccc>
cn>
AUSTRALIAN - HADE
RADIOTRON
radio valves
AUSTRALIAN GENERAL ELECTRIC I*ROI’RIE I’AKI. CIO.
03 Clarence Street. Sa iluej'.
AMALGAMATED WIRELESS (A/SiA), LTD.,
72 Clarence Street, Sydney.
Advertisement of Amalgamated Wireless Valve Co. I’ty.. Ltd.
Australian, Mercantile, Land & Finance
Company, Limited
(INCORPORATED IN ENGLAND IN 1863)
WOOL, FAT STOCK, STORE AND STUD STOCK,
PRODUCE AND PROPERTY SALESMEN
General Manager for Australia: R. SINCLAIR SMITH.
ADVANCES MADE ON GRAZING PROPERTIES, ON STOCK, AND ON
CONSIGNMENTS OF WOOL, SKINS, HIDES, TALLOW, ETC.
LICENSED AUCTIONEERS, STOCK AND STATION AGENCS.
SYDNEY OFFICE: A. M. MURDOCH, Manager
ALSO AT MELBOURNE, BRISBANE, NEWCASTLE, WAGGA, HENTA, HAA, . 10REE,
TOWNSVILLE, CHARLEY,ILLE, BUENOS AIRES, LONDON. __
GENERAL AGENTS IN NEW SOUTH WALES FOR NORTHERN ASSURANCE CO.. LTD.
Water for Sheep.
THE MAN ON
THE LAND
"DON'T WORRY. I'M SENDING IT TO
GRAZCOS.
“R. Ney”: How much need be stored
depends on local conditions, area and
carrying capacity. A good guide is to
take a 17in. annual rainfall as a mean.
Above that a good drought reserve is one
or more tanks totalling 5000 cubic yards ;
below it the storage should be increased
as the rainfall decreases. For instance,
on a lOin. average you’d need a 7500-
cubic-yard tank.
' It’s of little use to talk of making big
tanks in the face of labor and material
scarcity, but the figures are good for
buyers, renters and for the future.
Evaporation has to be considered ; it can
be five or six feet in a year. At ground
level in parts of western N.S.W. it some-
times equals 18in. a year. High banks
will protect a tank from evaporation, and
in the west the less surface area of the
tank the better. For those parts a tank
should be 14 of 15 feet deep.
Under moderate climate and with
plenty of green feed sheep don’t drink
much. In a year of good rains they get
plenty from the grass and from pools
and crab holes. Merino wethers went
through a dry year of short tucker and
empty tanks on a western Riverina station
because there were freakish frosts and
fogs, but the owner got a big enough
fright to put down two more tanks and
three bores against the inevitable time of
few frosts and fogs. Generally, in hot
and dry weather sheep drink heavily and
their wool absorbs a lot of water. It’s
fairly safe to say a sheep needs 1-g- gal-
lons a day, or 456 gallons a year.
For tank capacity, work on the basis
that there are 168 gallons in a cubic yard
of water and you’ll need 2| cubic yards
a sheep a year, or three cubic yards to be
on the safe side. Thus every 1000 sheep
will need 3000 cubic yards, which should
give the size of the tank. For cattle or
horses, somewhere about 30 cubic yards
a head a year will be necessary in dry
country, dropping to 24 cubic yards in
moderate rain areas.
The tanks have to be kept at capacity.
A droughty, dusty year will put a lot of
dust into a tank and a drought-breaking
rain will put silt into it. Silt-traps in the
drains help to stop it, and frequent clean-
ing is necessary.
Sorghum Poisoning.
“Huxtable”: All sorghum will develop
cyanide at certain stages of growth.
Sudan grass is safest, but is dangerous to
stock when dark green and short. Second
short growth made after grazing or cut-
ting is more poisonous still. Keep stock
off it till it’s 2ft. or over or turns pale
or yellowish green. Same rules apply
when the grass is meant for hay.
Sometimes the soil is to blame. A high
nitrogen and low phosphorus level puts
up the poison percentage, and vice versa,
though all short plants are dangerous.
It is when the animal is hungry that it
gets the fatal dose.
An antidote is a mixture of loz. wash-
ing soda dissolved in a pint of water and
}oz. sulphate of iron dissolved in a sepa-
rate pint of water. Don’t mix until just
before drenching. Cows require two
pints ; sheep half a pint. Half a teaspoon
of potassium of permanganate and 21b.
glucose or molasses in a quart of water
is effective. When you can’t drench pour
the mixture into the stomach as for a
bloat. Insert the canula a hand’s breadth
forward of the hipbone point on near-
side.
“ Remember , blokes. We're ihe 'eads o' the Allied Works Council on an
inspection tour."
Nursing the Natives.
“Alpen Tera’s” compressed history:
About 15 years ago we took over an appar-
ently thriving little sheep property after in-
spection in spring. The late spring, summer
and autumn were dry and we found ourselves
short of feed by Easter. Across the road was
a point of Crown land not used and netted
against rabbits; it carried a lot of wallaby,
blue and panic grasses which survived the dry.
We looked closely and found odd little patches
of the natives on our new place, so we ran up
lightning fences around them and began a pro-
gramme of recovery.
Inside three years the patches had spread.
We stocked them lightly at all times and not
at all at seeding time. Before long one 250-acre
paddock was well covered with natives. All
sorts of care were taken that the sheep never
ate it bare again; we studied the condition
of every paddock before moving sheep into it.
In seasons when we looked like having too
many sheep we got rid of some, not caring
greatly about price so long as the native grasses
got a chance.
That’s about all. We’ve got lucerne now and
a bit of sub. clover and rye grass, and we top-
dress as much as we can of all pastures every
autumn, and keep silage and hay on hand.
Over three-quarters of the once-liogged pad-
docks now carry a good cover of wallaby,
blue and panics.
Lime for Pastures.
“H.C.”: At Taranaki (M.L.) milk fever
and grass staggers have been rife except
on farms where fertiliser was used on
paddocks previously limed. The same
farms registered herd improvements and
fewer cases of sterility and hard quarters ;
most of the pastures had been regularly
limed for three years.
An Okato farmer limed half his 180
acres with lOcwt. of lime an acre in the
first year, and followed it up in the second
year with scwt. of lime and super, mixed
with a little potash. This was repeated
the third year, and the remainder of the
farm was topdressed with lime. Since
then heavy lime dressings have followed
the hay crop. There was an entire
absence of calving troubles and less milk
fever. Cost averaged £1 per acre, the
carrying capacity was increased and
losses and replacements decreased.
On a Lepperton farm where lime was
used at from scwt. to Bcwt. per acre for
three years only two cows were culled
during the past two seasons, as against
losses of 18 per season before the land
was limed. North Island pastures react
better to liming than in the South island,
but everywhere stock benefit from it.
The Farrowing Sow.
“Huxave”: If she’s had good pastures,
plenty of daily exercise and sunshine in
clean paddocks, she’s more likely to have
big litters than when cooped up in a
small pen. Let her have her own pen
about three weeks before farrowing.
Sows housed together at farrowing time
are quarrelsome, and brawls bring on un-
timely births of abortions. At this time,
too, the sow may be savage with strangers.
Condition must be good. Too fat at
farrowing means likely trouble with the
birth. Poor, she can’t nourish the piglets
properly before or after birth.
Avoid purgatives before birth. If she’s
lethargic, a warm bran mash mixed with
3 fl. oz. of castor oil and enough salt to
disguise the flavor can be given three or
four days before farrowing. Careful con-
trol on good pasture is better than medi-
cine.
A sow inclined to bite her young needs
watching. Once she tastes blood she may
eat the whole litter. Take the piglets away
as they drop and place them in a straw-
lined box till delivery is finished. Then
put them on the teats.
The mother doesn’t require any more
food the first two weeks after farrowing
than she had in the last two weeks of
pregnancy ; after that the food can be in-
creased. Piglets benefit from a teaspoon
of cod liver oil a day each up to ten
weeks.
Strangles in Horses.
“Sarina”*: It mainly attacks young
horses. Simple strangles is a germ in-
fection of the upper air passages only,
accompanied by a nasal discharge, fever,
throat soreness and abscess formation in
the lymph glands of the jaw. Painful
but not dangerous, and it will run its
course in four or five weeks and leave
the horse hot much the worse if it is
treated. Complicated strangles follows
neglect and is an extension of the infec-
tion from the air passages to other parts
of the respiratory system. Blood poison-
ing is the end of it.
The patient should be isolated. If
there is no cover, rug the animal and
turn it into a sheltered paddock. Small
amounts of green-feed, bran-mashes, etc.,
will tempt the horse to eat; give plenty
of water. Clean eyes and nostrils daily
with a piece of cotton-wool dipped in
weak Condy’s. To prevent the matter
from hardening and blocking the nostrils
moisten them with olive oil. Disinfect
feedboxes and water vessels every day.
Clean the jaw abscess as often as pos-
sible with hot water to which lysol or
Condy’s has been added. Mustard
plasters will aid in bringing the swelling
to a head, when it may burst of its own
accord. If it does not burst within a
reasonable time open it with a sharp
sterilised knife and squeeze out the
matter. A little peroxide of hydrogen
syringed into the cavity twice daily for
a few days will loosen any pus or foreign
matter, which may then be removed by
bathing the wound with warm salt and
water. Do not allow the wound to close
until all pus has escaped. Daily appli-
cations of pure kerosene will render the
wound germproof while it is healing.
Hints for the Farm.
“Molecule”: Working horses, like any
other animals which sweat profusely,
must have salt to replace that lost in the
sweat. Make it available ad lib. When
abundant succulent greenstuff is available
grazing animals excrete a lot more salt
in the urine than normally, so that salt
should be available to them at such times.
Transport and other difficulties make it
wise to keep salt in reserve.
“B.”: Milkers fed young grass only
are likely to develop scours and then go
dry. Medicine won’t help, but a little
bran night and morning will.
“L.C.”: Let the cream cool off before
you add it to the supply on hand. Then
stir regularly. This liberates the gases,
aerates the mass, delays bacteria develop-
ment, makes for uniform consistency and
avoids low grading.
“Mt. Boppy”: When feeding meatmeai
to pigs and other stock make sure that
no residue is left in the buckets. The
stale material will cause trouble. Rinse
the buckets thoroughly after each feed-
ing.
“Myrrhee”: For ants use a bait made
up by mixing Boz. honey, loz. warm
water and 12 grains sodium arsenite.
First dissolve the sodium arsenite in the
warm water, then mix thoroughly into
the honey. Put the bait in a closed tin,
with small openings for the ants to enter
and place in the ants’ track. The bait
is poisonous and should not be laid
where children can get hold of it.
“Ben Cubbin”: The N.S.W wheat crop
was estimated at 48,000,000 bushels on
October 7, but the Statistician, in a “pre-
liminary statement,” revised the figure to
52.000. on Dec. 18. That’s nearly
8 p.c. above the 1941-42 crop of
48.500.000. It shows what Mrs. Nature
can do with restriction plans. The area
sown is reckoned as the smallest since
1928, and if the estimate is right it means
a State average yield of about 16 bushels
an acre, well above the normal 13.5.
Rainfall over the 1942 growing period
was nearly twice as much as in 1941.
“Lex”: The 1942 pack of Australian
dried vine fruits may reach 85,000 tons.
Peak production was in 1940 —95,183 tons.
About 74 p.c. of the 1942 pack will be
for export. Australia now supplies
Canadian and New Zealand markets, but
the biggest percentage will go to Britain.
A big proportion of the 26 p.c. left has
been earmarked for the services.


mm.
mm
K
CRAVEN A~
10 for 1/1 20 for 2/2
Save - or Slave. Put
all you've got into £lO
National Savings Bonds.
5050 MADE SPECIALLY TO PREVENT SORE THROATS
UNCABLED ADDITIONS
The Japanese Grip.
[This general review of Japan’s strong military
and political position and what is facing the
Allied Nations in this regard is condensed from
the “Atlantic Monthly.”]
Japan has gained a fabulous empire,
rich in raw materials and man-power;
she has dealt such a blow to the system
of nineteenth-century empires that
American leaders have proclaimed the
age of the Anglo-Saxon and French em-
pires already over.
The assumption still prevails that the
defeat of Hitler will lead to the automatic
collapse of Japan: Japan can be dealt
with later. The widespread feeling that
Japan cannot stand after Hitler is
defeated is based on the assumption of
racial superiority—reluctance to admit
the possibility that the white man can
ever be defeated.
Japan is now striving for the political
allegiance of the colonial peoples of Asia.
The Japanese are meeting difficulties in
the Philippines, the Dutch East Indies,
Malaya and Burma, but their political
propaganda has had its effect. They have
razed the city of Cebu as a warning to
the Filipino people, which indicates some
unwillingness to co-operate ; but a puppet
regime is serving under the Japanese and
sufficient members of American-hating
politicians have been found to run it.
The Japanese case is a strong one. Japan
can afford to stress race hatred against
the white man because there is a century
of bitterness, in most countries, upon
which to build. She can point to her con-
quest of the white man and parade thou-
sands of American and British prisoners
before the eyes of wondering natives.
She can use all the pent-up feelings of
subject people against the “white
oppressor.”
The Far East has ceased to be an
extension of the European political sys-
tem ; it now has a centre of gravity of
its own.
If Japan were predominantly a naval
Power the matter would be less serious,
but Japan is primarily a continental
power. Much of her industry and most
of her army are on the mainland ; she
has locked the seas of Eastern Asia with
a chain of island possessions. She faces
our navies with long-prepared bases and
land-based airplanes. The Solomons ex-
pedition was to protect our lines of com-
munication, not to conquer Japan by
hopping islands, but it serves to show
those who favor this strategy how expen-
sive the process would be.
How many of us realise the price that
China has paid for the premature air raid
on Tokyo? While destroying the three
bases to which the American ’planes
might fly and from which China could
bomb Tokyo, if she had the ’planes,
“the invaders made of a rich, flourishing
country a human hell, a gruesome grave-
yard, where the only living thing we saw
for miles was a skeleton-like dog who
fled in terror before our approach.”
Japan is in a position to attack in
several directions. If Japan feels that
Germany is losing the war she must go
into Siberia, a move for which she has
prepared herself very well. The opening
of the Alaska highway will help com-
munications to some degree, but the
coming of winter closes practically every
way of getting supplies to the maritime
provinces of the U.S.S.R. And in spite
of the development of Siberia the Rus-
sians cannot fight for long in the mari-
titne provinces without assistance from
the United States.
The Japanese, by occupying Attu,
Agattu, and Kiska, and possibly the
Pribilofs, have anticipated an American
attempt to crash through the Kuriles to
the Okhotsk Sea and Sakhalin. They
have prepared the way to attack Alaska
if they see fit to do so. They have de-
stroyed, for the time being, the bases in
China from which they could be bombed
and can therefore turn their backs on
Central China with some assurance.
Japan has less cause to attack Siberia
now if she believes Germany is winning
than she has to take Northern India,
although she may have strength to do
both. Realising better than we do the
importance of China, Japan has to make
sure that American air support, which
she apparently cannot destroy at its
Chinese bases, is destroyed at its source—
Northern India.
Nor should we overlook the advan-
tages to Japan of political and military
chaos in India as well as the importance
of getting to India before Germany does.
Russia will not fight unless she is
attacked, but in India the bases for the
retaking of Burma and the supplying of
China are gradually being built up.
The attack on the Solomons, although
a limited affair designed to secure limited
strategic results, is most important be-
cause it opens up the battle for the initia-
tive. Until Burma is retaken, the proper
place for the major attack on Japan, from
China, cannot be properly utilised; in
fact, China has taken so much punish-
ment since the loss of Burma that a great
London “News-Chronicle.”
ANOTHER MARCH ON ROME.
deal of the will to attack has been under-
mined.
The United States, by virtue of its
growing production, is assuming a more
important role in the war effort of the
United Nations and therefore can expect
to have more to say about the political
front. But many changes will have to
come about in America’s attitude toward
the conflict before there can be any assur-
ance that American concepts of the
struggle in Asia will be more advanced
than the British. And we cannot afford
many more political defeats such as we
have faced during 1942 ; if the United
Nations do not soon become really
united, they still stand a very good chance
of ceasing to be nations.
A Word to Willkie.
(From a New York “Herald Tribune" article
by Walter Lippmann.)
Surely Mr. Willkie cannot have allowed
his hosts in the East to think that he
thinks that on all counts we and our
British Allies stand convicted. He was
told, for example, that the people of Asia
know what they are fighting for, but that
they do not know what we are fighting
for. But, as a matter of fact, is this
true? Is it true that the war aims of
General Chiang Kai-shek and of Mr.
Gandhi are so clear, while our war aims
are not?
We must hope that on the subject of
imperialism he did not fail to explain -to
General Chiang Kai-shek that we are at
war with Japan because we refused the
repeated and persistent offers of the Japa-
nese Government to settle all our differ-
ences at the expense of China. For the
Chinese people are the last people on
earth who have the right to question our
good faith, and what we did in refusing
to sell out China in her darkest hour is
more important than all the words that
can be pronounced on the subject of war
aims and of liberty and justice.
We must hope also that Mr. Willkie
did not fail to explain in Chungking that
we are able to be the fighting Ally of
China only because the British nations
stood steadfast and true and all alone
for over a year against our other enemy
in Europe. We must hope, when Britain’s
devotion to the independence of weak
nations was aspersed, that Mr. Willkie
reminded his hosts of Poland and of Nor-
way and of Holland and Belgium and
of Greece, and pointed out to theni that
no other people in the world has given
greater proofs of a willingness to take
awful risks in coming to the help of
others. For if Britain were
remotely the cynical imperial-
ist Power that ungrateful
men make her out to be,
Britain could long ago have
found ways to strike a bar-
gain, if not with Hitler then
with the German Army, at
the expense of Russia and
Eastern Europe.
We shall not do justice in
the East by doing injustice to
the British or to ourselves.
We shall not make the grand
alliance of the United Nations
effective and victorious by
falling into that subtle and
unconscious and inverted
form of imperialist conde-
scension which assumes that
we alone, the British and our-
selves, are responsible for the
future of Asia, and that if
India, for example, is not
united and independent and
a strong fighting Ally it is
all our fault.
Strange Abyssinian News.
(Condensed from “Review of World Affairs,”
as the memoranda of what was formerly the
Imperial Policy Group are now titled.)
The Abyssinian Emperor is now and
has always been surrounded by a num-
ber of chiefs almost as powerful as him-
self. He can never withstand a coalition
of them and is therefore under their influ-
ence.
At one extreme contemporary Ethio-
pian Rases are the older chiefs who
have grown up in primitive isolation and
at the other the younger and more
progressive notables whose minds have
been profoundly affected by the in-
security and change of the last decade.
For the sake of easy description we may
call the first traditionalists and the latter
pro-Europeans.
The traditionalists form the backbone
of the forces which resisted the Italian
invasion. They were the diehard party.
They controlled the Central Government.
The pro-Europeans tended to co-
operate with the Italians after the
conquest. This earned them the hatred
of the traditionalists. Since the re-
conquest of Abyssinia it is only
British Authority which has stopped the
diehards from seeking a bloody revenge.
It is curious that the very forces which
co-operated with the Italians are now the
ones which welcome the British influence,
whereas those who opposed the Italian
invasion would be pleased to see us go,
and with us all European influence.
With the disintegration of the Italian
Government, Ethiopia fell into anarchy.
While the main Italian forces were being
pursued by the British Army, detached
bands of enemy soldiery roamed the
country, destroying everything in their
path. Then there were many native brigand
gangs which pillaged whole districts.
Many of the chiefs took advantage of
this chaos to settle old personal accounts
with irritating neighbors. Any number
of obscure and bloody battles were fought
in the remote wildnesses.
In this turmoil the peasantry bore the
brunt. Villages were burned, cattle
stolen, crops destroyed, and there was
the threat of general ruin.
It was at this point that many of the
pro-European party did valuable service
in assisting the British to restore order.
They understood what was left of the
Italian administrative machine and in
many instances still possessed strong local
power. It cannot be denied that they
rendered valuable service.
The diehards, hating foreigners, didn’t
want to collaborate with the British
authorities. They didn’t want the British
there at all. If we had withdrawn civil
war would have broken out at once on
a large scale. There would have been
great slaughter. Moreover, for strategic
reasons we had to stay. We needed the
help of the pro-Europeans and accepted
it thankfully.
Order was restored. In the lull that
followed, all parties took stock of their
position. The traditionalists emerged
from their long sojourn in the wilderness.
They expected the day of national libera-
tion to be one of factional triumph. They
were furious when they found their
enemies working with the British. They
became suspicious of our continuing pres-
ence. The most they were prepared to
tolerate in the way of foreign interven-
tion was a small body of political ad-
visers, unsupported by troops, whose
views they could accept if they felt like
it, but could set aside if they didn’t. Our
emergency edicts were most unpopular.
Nor were the traditionalists happy
about the restoration of Haile Silassie.
Many of the more warlike chiefs felt that
the Emperor should have sought refuge
with them, taking a part in the guerrilla
campaign which continued throughout
the Italian occupation. They disapproved
of his leaving the country.
British policy was to restore order with
a firm hand, standing loyally by those
notables, of whatever party, who had
supported our authority. This involved
close relations with many leading prp-
Europeans and the suppressing of some
violent traditionalists. The only logical
policy was and is firm neutral govern-
ment by the British occupying authorities
until passions and hatreds have subsided.
The position may be briefly summar-
ised: those Rases who before the Italian
occupation were conspicuous for their
intractability, doubtful allegiance to the
throne and reactionary views, but who,
when war came, resisted the enemy gal-
lantly, are now grouped together control-
ling the Emperor and the State. Their
policy is one of steadfast opposition to
foreign intervention. They are unfriendly
to British officials and are determined to
rid themselves of foreign influence. When
free from this they mean to turn their
vengeance upon the pro-Europeans be-
cause they collaborated both with the
Italians and the British.
The position of these Anglophils is
exceedingly difficult, because their record
is an unpopular one and the country with


HOTEL SYDNEY
300 BEDROOMS; HOT & COLD WATER,
PHONE IN EVERY ROOM
'Mam
MI’I lIW
■lllllll
mnns!
3sgg3^
5s
>*vVr< Sx
1..^
'J&m
-o
fc
USA
W. G. Bulfm
Right at Central Station
overlooking Belmore Park
—“round the corner” to
the business, shopping and
theatre districts.
Extra Comfort, Friendly
Service, Attractive Foods
and Very Moderate Rates.
When a Man makes his Will
WHEN a man makes his Will, it is necessary for him to appoint .
to administer the Will. In the old days few men had the ex per
and wisdom to make good executors. The testator (the n
Will) might appoint his best friend, and the friend turn out to be
of poor judgment in money matters, or irresponsible, or in >
even a scamp. _ . ,
Today, the wise man avoids that risk. He appoints
Company, Limited. The Company has a vast experience in , . sound
of Estates of varying sizes and kinds. It never becomes to
judgment, and it never absconds. . h
Write for a copy of a booklet, “Your Executor and Trustee, that deals u
this problem in a frank and straightforward way, and shows what
Company’s service costs.
PERPETUAL TRUSTEE COMPANY, LIMITED
DIRECTORS: T H. Kelly (Chairman); Hon. T. A. J. PlayfaiD M.L.C. , E- R- Knox,
H. Norman Pope; Allen C. Lewis; W. Deuchar
Power of Attorney for Absentees and others.
Administrator, etc.
Trust and Agency Funds under Administration exceed £6o,uuu,uuu.
33-39 HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY.
Southern and Riverina District Representative: C. E. Cow^y>®i1 ,^ W p°^ ce^ t Q^^gg^ a^®a agS<l ’
Western District Representative: H, A. Shaw, 140 Doid s Pla e. a •
Form a Group! Join a Group! Buy War Savings Certificates.
which they wish to work, namely Britain,
does not want to remain and fears the
repercussions of doing so. The great
Rases are therefore hopelessly divided
against each other, and the moment
Britain withdraws blood will flow.
The future of Abyssinia presents a
great problem. The responsibility for
bold and firm action rests with the Anglo-
American entente. This is the first re-
gained territory—it is vital that our policy
should be successful.
Jap Fighting Tricks.
[Condensed from an article by New York
“Times” Pacific correspondent Byron Darnton,
who was killed in New Guinea a few days
after writing this.]
The Japanese fighter has got lots of
tricks, but he is no superman. That is
on the evidence of those who have fought
him both when he was winning and when
he was losing. This evidence comes from
men like Captain Stan Owens, veteran of
Libya, who had the difficult job of solv-
ing the problem for his unit in the battle
for the Port Moresby-Buna trail.
Such men have found the Japanese
soldier dogged and persistent in attack.
They have found, in general, that he is
not asked to do unreasonable feats —his
commanders do not call upon him to
play the superman.
When the Japs were on the advance
they went to great lengths to recover their
dead, whom they buried properly—since
it was impossible to cremate them and
send the ashes home to Japan as custom
dictates. But when on retreat they forget
all such niceties. In the words of Captain
Owens, the belief that the Japanese, no
matter what the circumstances, are most
careful to dispose properly of their dead
“is a lot of hooey.”
At sniping the Japs are excellent. They
work from all sorts of places, especially
liking tall trees. Often they are instructed
to concentrate on the leaders of the
opposing force. Insignia are not worn
by Australian officers in front areas, so
from his dress it is impossible to tell a
buck private from a major. But in a
more subtle way it is possible. The
private takes orders; the major gives
them. Behavior patterns mean more than
a crown or a couple of tabs on the arms
or shoulders. Snipers will wait hours to
identify and get a good shot at "the man
who runs the show. Their marksmanship
is not always good, but their patience is.
Superior numbers had much to do with
Japanese success when the Japanese en-
joyed success on their way down the
Buna-Port Moresby trail. With these
superior numbers they were able to carry
on outflanking movements at will.
They sometimes fail to take elementary
precautions, and expose themselves in
cleared places. If they are caught in a
burst of fire, they are trained to flop im-
mediately to the ground and play dead.
The Australians soon learned that a Jap
who collapsed when fired on was likely
to crawl away a few minutes later and
rejoin the fight.
English-speaking Japs are used. In
one action in the Owen Stanley Moun-
tains a Japanese, wearing the skirtlike
costume of the New Guinea native,
walked straight into the Australian posi-
tion, saying, “Me help you, Taubada”
(Taubada is the usual form of address
employed by natives ; it means roughly
“white boss”).
In another skirmish a Japanese soldier
cried out from his jungle hiding place,
“Where are you, Digger?” The Aus-
tralian who told of this incident wound
up his story: “We replied with a decent
shower of hand grenades and tommy
gunfire.” Some of the men who have
heard these calls in English from the
Japanese say a good ear can easily detect
a difference.
“Demonstrations” are aimed at play-
ing on fear of the unseen or on curiosity.
In addition to the spoken word, the
Japanese use such devices as the shaking
of trees. Sometimes this is done by
a soldier who is at the end of a vine
20 feet away from the tree that is doing
the shaking. Sometimes the effect of
movement in the heavy jungle is obtained
by the use of what Australians call the
“shanghai” arid Americans the sling shot.
A stone catapulted from a sling shot
crashes through foliage far away from
the Japanese who loosed the missile, and
the unwary opponent who fires reveals
his position to the Japanese grenade-
thrower.
The classic form of Japanese attack
along roads and trails, as developed in
New Guinea, has nothing remarkable
or new about it. Men who have met it
are certain that on any ground where the
attackers have not numerical superiority
it can be stopped.
On the other side of warfare—retreat
—the Japanese has shown that he knows
his business. Badly weakened by casual-
ties, deaths from sickness and dysentery
and by lack of supplies, the Japanese,
nevertheless, made an orderly withdrawal
from the positions southward of the
Owen Stanley Mountains.
Wrong Propaganda.
[From an address by U.S. Chamber of Com-
merce president Eric A. Johnston, who might
have been speaking of Australia instead of
America.]
One does not hear the Germans say
they are losing the war —that their pro-
duction is not going so well. But think
of their difficulties, with underground
enemies continually seeking to sabotage
their efforts, and with Allied ’planes con-
tinually bombing their factories.
One does not hear of any negative
psychology among the Russians. They
are imbued with an incomparable morale,
a never-say-die spirit—and we can see
its effect.
The people who win wars are moti-
vated by a positive psychology—a posi-
tive psychology which springs from con-
fidence in the nation’s strength and will
to win. It is this positive determination
which pushes production on the home
front and inspires the soldier on the
battlefront.
The national psychology of the French
was negative. Their defeat was swift and
disastrous. The American people can face
the facts of this war. But they do not
want unjustified criticism of their efforts
and unwarranted pessimism designed for
the good of their morale. The American
people do not have to be told what they
are not doing ; they want to be told what
to do —and they will do it. The American
people are willing to pay higher taxes,
to work harder, to accept rationing, and
to do everything else that will contribute
to victory.
We need a positive national psychology
for victory. That inspiration can come
only from our country’s leaders.
For Free Enterprise.
(Condensed from a “Saturday Evening Post ”
articled)
Even convinced believers in free enter-
prise are disturbed by the fear that there
may be something to the charges thrown
at them by Pinks and collectivists.
The result is that the system which has
produced the greatest social gains for
the largest number of people in human
history has pretty much let its case go
by default and permitted millions of
people whose" lives have been enriched
by free enterprise to regard themselves
as “prisoners of starvation,” chained and
shackled by capitalism and awaiting deli-
verence by bureaucratic mumbo-jumbo.
This failure to dispose of the myths
which have confused so many people is
one of the strangest phenomena of the
time. It suggests that familiarity with
freedom and opportunity breeds con-
tempt for ordinary logic and facts.
It ought not to take unusual powers of
observation to note that, if social gain
is translated into terms of living stand-
ards, food, clothing, shelter, leisure and
opportunity for spiritual development,
free enterprise has produced more social
gains than any other system yet devised.
Fortunately for the prospects of free
enterprise in a generation susceptible to
economic mythology, we have two im-
portant exhibits of the operation of col-
lectivism to guide us. The experience of
Soviet Russia, including the famine of
the early 1930’5, offers illuminating
evidence of the limitations of centralised
planning, even when backed by an all-
pervasive secret police. Nazi Germany,
while performing miracles in industrial-
isation, offers hideous evidence of an-
other truth which anti-free-enterprise pro-
paganda ignores, to wit, a collectivist
society cannot permit personal freedom.
Because free enterprise is the only sys-
tem we know, we exaggerate its errors.
Because there have been confusion,
stupidity, bad distribution and “poverty
amid plenty” under a free economy, we
mistakenly assume that such things are
not possible in a Socialist economy.
Because men in a free economy often
fail in business or walk the streets look-
ing for jobs, some are overtender toward
collective systems which punish failure
by a term in a concentration camp or
even by death.
What Americans Are Saying.
C Condensed from various acknowledged sources .)
The India leaders Azad, Nehru and Rajago-
palachari, who negotiated with Cripps on be-
half of Congress, each told me separately that
Cripps had promised India an immediate
national Government and had then withdrawn
the promise.— Louis Fischer; New York
“Herald Tribune” letter.
% * * *
A careful survey made recently in Kansas
revealed that 3600 farms would go wholly out
of production in 1943 and 10,200 partially, a
total of 193,000 acres. The two major reasons
assigned were Selective Service, 52.2 per cent.,
and the pull of war industries, 35.2. Official
inquiries reveal that this loss to farm produc-
tion is typical of what is going on all over the
country.— “ Saturday Evening Post.”
•!4 * * »
Millions will starve in Europe this witner, say
those in a position to know. Worst sufferers
will be old folks and babies in the invaded
countries, especially in Poland, Russia, Greece,
Yugoslavia, Norway, France and the Low
Countries, roughly in that order. But others —-
Finland, Italy, Hungary, Bulgaria, Rumania—
will not escape. China is already seeing star-
vation. Crops have failed two years in suc-
cession in large areas and there’s no route for
sending food in. Even vital war materials are
down to the smallest trickle. — New York
“World-Telegram.”
* * * * ■
Some of our newspapers—most of them, in
fact—are not telling the stark truth about the
war. We print the pleasing things and often
exaggerate the favorable news if there is any.
We minimise the disagreeable facts. We pro-
ceed, 1 suppose, on the assumption that the
public likes to hear good news. I think the
public likes to hear true news. Every once in
a while an Administration official or military
officer declares that we are losing the war and
that the people are to blame. The people are not
to blame. They are doing everything they are
called upon to do —everything they possibly can
do. They are sacrificing their sons and their
fortunes. If we are losing the war let us print
how we are losing it and why we are losing it.
Let us not support a bad policy to its fatal
conclusion. The people have no intention of
losing the war, and if they know they are losing
it they will find a way to win it. But they
must have the facts spread clearly before them.
—William Randolph Hearst; New York “Daily
Mirror.”
* * * *
What about the quality of our [U.S.] air-
craft as compared with that of the enemy?
The quality of our ’planes has been widely
criticised. I happen to know that this un-
justified criticism has been a definite blow to
the morale of the workers in our aircraft fac-
tories and to the morale even of our pilots.
What are the facts about our ’planes? The
facts show that we have been winning air
battles at a conservative ratio of three to one.
Our ’planes, built by American technicians,
workers and managers, flown by American
pilots, have been blasting three enemy ’planes
from the skies for every American ’plane
downed by the Axis. On the basis of
facts, do you believe that American ’planes
are inferior to Jap or German ’planes? The
Japs don’t; the Nazis don’t. — U.S. Chamber of
Commerce president Eric A. Johnston.
* * * *
James Christopher Healey writes in “Ameri-
can Seamen” that “The battle in which the
merchant marine is engaged is the greatest
battle of them all.” His point is that “effec-
tive resistance against the invader and the tyrant
is possible only in those countries which still
have access to the sea, whose ships are sailing
to and fro upon the waters carrying food and
the sinews of war to people who live under
the shadow of a great menace.” He notes the
helplessness of the Nazi-enslaved nations of
Europe whose ports are closed, the plight of
China, dependent for continued resistance on
seaborne cargo transhipped by airplane. And
he wonders what would happen were Russia not
receiving the sinews of war from ships con-
voyed to the top of the world. Certainly win-
ning the battle of the oceans is prerequisite
to other battles; its winning means that at
least we may fight those other battles. — New
York “Herald Tribune.”
» ♦ > ♦
“If we get 50 per cent, of the Soviet supplies
through we regard the risk as worth while.
Hundreds of ’planes have attacked Russian-
bound convoys at one time. We are working
day and night to keep that dreadful route
open.”- — Capt. L. P. Lovette, chief of the U.S.
Navy’s Bureau of Public Relations.
* * * *
The Italians hated the Germans from the
outset, and the war has become increasingly un-
popular with them. They have become con-
vinced that an Axis victory will really spell de-
feat for them, for Hitler has left no room for
doubt that his New Order in Europe will be run
from Berlin or that Germany’s neighbors will be
treated as subject States inhabited by inferior
peoples. That is what was behind the defeats
of the Italians in Albania, Greece and N<prth
Africa. It was not cowardice. The Italians
have as much courage as anybody. But being a
sensitive, imaginative, home-and-family-loving
people, they need inspiration—something to
fight for, like Lieutenant Bianchi, Sergeant
Braga and Salvatore Battaglia, who won honor
and glory by their exploits at Bataan and Mid-
way. In the Balkans and in North Africa, fight-
ing for Hitler, Italian soldiers are said to have
looked at it this way: “What’s it all about?
If we win, we lose. Why give an arm or a leg
or our lives just to make Hitler the boss of
Europe?” So, many times, they refused to
fight. Apparently, like Austria, Hungary, Ru-
mania, Bulgaria and Finland, Italy remains in
the Hitler line-up not because her heart is in it
but because, for the moment, she must. She
seems to be just as much of a captive as
France, Belgium, Holland, Poland and the
rest. And, like the others, her people are said
to be longing for rescue from their predicament.
— Win. Philip Simms; New York “World-
Telegram.”
* * * *
“A California newspaper carried a banner
headline in its biggest type—Hitler Crushed at
Stalingrad. Now, Hitler was stopped at Stalin-
grad, and that fact is of very great import-
ance, but he is a long way from being crushed,
and to play the news that way only encourages
disappointment and disillusion.”— Elmer Davis;
director of the U.S. Office of Information.
* * * *
Some food has been getting into Greece,
but it is by no means enough. Recently, a
select committee of Greek economists and
humanitarians drew up a report in which it
was asserted that a minimum of 38,000 tons
of varied foods must be imported by the
stricken country unless deaths from starvation
are to occur “not by hundreds of thousands,
as has been the case all along, but possibly by
millions.” Appalling statistics already have
been published, a sample of which is that seven
of every eight babies born die of malnutrition,
and nine out of ten children under the age of
12 suffer from rickets and may never grow up
to be healthy adults. It is clear that the dis-
crepancy between the food shipments in pros-
pect and those required and solicited, trans-
lated into terms of human life, simply means
no life at all. Disease, it is believed, will take
an even greater toll of lives in the coming
fourth winter of the war, the second in which
Greece has been occupied by the Axis, than in
previous winters, when by all accounts distress
was acute and widespread, with death almost
certain for all except the strongest.—New York
“Times” Palestine correspondent.
* * * *
The only intelligible meaning which can be
attached to “freedom from want” is to have
no wants, and “freedom from fear must be
either through personal courage or rigor mortis.
Neither can be secured by Government action.
The phrases are nonsense. Freedom is just
freedom from restraint. And what Com-
munism, Government control, brings about is
freedom from soap, freedom from shoes, free-
dom from food. — Isabel M Paterson; New
York “Herald Tribune” book reviewer.


WE ARE SPECIALISTS
IN
COWBOY SADDLERY
£l5/17/3
DOUBLE RIGGED.
Delivery end of January, 1943.
Three-quarter rigged, with one cord
cincha, 15/- less. This is a very
popular line, quite equal to saddles of
the same class made in U.S.A. It is
made of brown leather, without fancy
stamping, and the seat and cantle are
in one piece of heavy leather.
Weight, about 281 b.
A’.jS.IP. Freight on Saddles Paid for Cash with
Order.
COWBOY IIITS, SPURS, BRIDLES,
CHAPARAJOS, TAPADEROS, ETC.
t
FORM A GROUP!
JOIN A GROUP!
BUY WAR SAVINGS CERTIFICATES
For Inflamed Eyes and Eyelids
SOLD EVERYWHERE
Beware
LUMBAGO
BACKACHE
RHEUMATISM
SCIATICA
SWOLLEN FEET
Kidneys must remove excess acids,
which are a danger signal.
DOAN’S
BACKACHE
KIDNEY PILLS
give quick relief and help you back to
health and strength. Buy a bottle today.
SOLD BY ALL CHEMISTS
AND STOREKEEPERS.
Foster-McClellan Co.,
Proprietors,
15 Hamilton St., Sydney.
VICKERS
VICKERS
VICKERS
VICKERS
VICKERS
VICKERS
VICKERS
VICKERS
VICKERS
VICKERS
VICKERS
VICKERS
1 I
i
■S¥-
sss
: : ,
M
!l
h m !-#■
™ .. ™ s%«S
ig&sfe W& *$?& :s •' : • s-M¥« ¥;
; ■: -■■ : ■■.■■: ■ ■■■ . ■■■■■■:
y.- ••••• •••••*•'
lummmmmm
.M:: .
mB§l>
.
MSSm
■ ' WH
: -<\y •;: :■■■' . . : :
Hjl&.' .'-'An
■ : 58
_§ | -fmL
■m
* Mm ™
HnL Hk#
»
S':":-:- ■■
rs:.;.:'
.... : ..:: xii : .• iSiMS-WSSSiSSs
Our Service Department
Wants.
To buy The War in Pictures (first year),
published by Sun News-Pictorial, Melbourne;
also Shapes and Sections (issued by Broken
Hill Pty., Newcastle). —3329.
Information Sought.
(1) Is it true that 140,000 prisoners were
taken by the Army of the Nile in the first
advance to Benghazi? (2) An idea of the size
of the British and Italian armies at that time?
(3) Some idea of the number of prisoners taken
in the recent advance by the Eighth Army led
by General Montgomery ?
(1) Figure of 140,000 is on the conservative
side. The exact number of prisoners taken
in the initial advance has never been made
public. (2) The A.I.F., British and Indians
numbered considerably less than three divisions
all told, while the Italians had at least 250,000
in the field. (3) Complete lists of prisoners
captured by the army under General Mont-
gomery have not been issued. But reviewing
the war against Italy, Mr. Churchill said on
November 30: “Today we have over 100 Italian
generals and nearly 300,000 Italian soldiers in
our hands.”
* * * *
Why does the Parliament of N.S.W. fly the
Union Jack instead of the Australian ensign, a
custom shared by some State departments ?
The Premier’s Department replies: “The in-
structions for flying flags in Australia issued
by the Commonwealth Prime Minister’s De-
partment indicate that there is no restriction
on flying the Union Jack (which may be flown
by any subject of the Empire) other than the
provision that it must be flown on a mast by
itself and must never be flown in a position
inferior to any other flag. So far as State
Government buildings are concerned, the Union
Jack or the Commonwealth blue ensign or the
British blue ensign bearing the badge of the
State may be flown.”
***!(!
What is the method of appointment of Jus-
tices of the Peace in N.S.W. ? What qualifica-
tions are necessary to hold office?
Persons of mature age and good character
may be appointed as Justices of the Peace by
Commission under the Grand Seal. The office
is honorary and is held during the pleasure of
the Crown. No special qualifications in law
are required, but appointees must be persons
of standing in the community and must take
prescribed oaths. Women became eligible for
the office under the Women’s Legal Status Act,
1918.
* * * *
To what extent has Christianity been adopted
in Japan?
Christianity was introduced to Japan in 1549
by the Jesuit missionary St. Francis Xavier,
whose efforts, together with those of other
missionaries, were at the time crowned with im-
mense success. There followed periods of pros-
cription and persecution; but in 1873 religious
freedom was decreed. The Episcopalian (Ameri-
can Anglican) Church was established in Japan
in 1859 by two American clergymen who settled
in Nagasaki. Protestant missions include
Presbyterian, Congregational, Methodist, Baptist
and Salvation Army. The number of Christian
churches in Japan is approx. 1815, with 2574
missionaries, and the number of Christian
converts in 1940 was 279,000.
* * * *
What is the procedure in cases of arime com-
mitted by young persons in N.S.W. ?
N.S.W. Official Year-Book states that “cases
of juvenile offenders under the age of 18 years
are dealt with in the Children’s Courts by
magistrates with special qualifications. No
children under the age of eight are held re-
sponsible for an offence.... The children
brought before the Courts are classified into
groups according to the special treatment they
require, and a large number are released after
admonition, or on probation, committal to an
institution being the final resort. Children
committed to an institution may be detained
in custody until the expiration of the period
specified by the Court or until reaching the age
of 15.”
* Ht * *
My chrysanthemum plants are affected with
rust. How can 1 treat them to control the
pest ?
During hot weather, when the rust spores
increase rapidly, spray the plants with sulphide
of potassium solution (loz. in three gallons of
water), getting it well under the leaves and on
the stem. Give the treatment every fortnight,
and continue until the flowers are well formed.
An occasional liming of the soil at the stem-
base is also a deterrent; but, since chrysanthe-
mums are shallow-rooting, be careful when
dibbling the soil.
* * * *
How to lay linoleum ?
Linoleum should always be seasoned in a
warm room for at least 24 hours before it is
laid, otherwise there is a risk of it cracking
while being unrolled. Scrub and wash the floor,
and before it is quite dry slowly unroll the
lineloum and place in position desired. The
slight dampness makes the linoleum more
pliable. Tack down smoothly after a few days
and no wrinkles will result.
* * * *
Recipes for beetroot and rhubarb wines ?
(1) Beetroot wine: Cut 41b. beetroot into
small pieces as quickly as possible and put into
cold water (one quart to lib.). Boil till white,
strain, and to quart liquor allow sugar and
juice of one lemon. Add cloves and ginger to
taste, stir till sugar dissolves. Bottle when
cold, cover bottles till fermentation ceases, then
cork tightly. Ready in six months. (2) Rhu-
barb wine: Cut freshly-picked rhubarb into
short lengths, rejecting leaves. Put 101 b. rhu-
barb into earthenware or wooden vessel, crush
well and pour over it 31 gallons of cold water.
Leave covered for 10 days, stirring daily.
Strain liquid into open cask, add 101 b. sugar, the
juice and rind of a lemon. Stir occasionally
till sugar melts, pour liquid into a cask, cover
bunghole with muslin .and leave for 10 days
longer. Seal tightly and leave for 12 months,
then bottle and use when required. It should
be noted that the making of any beverage with
an alcoholic content in excess of 2 p.c. is illegal
in N. S. Wales.
* * * *
A recipe for ginger beer ?
Boil together for one hour one gallon water,
loz. bruised ginger and lib. sugar. Skim the
liquor and pour into a jug containing half sliced
lemon and cream of tartar. Allow to cool
and then add half teacupful yeast and let
it work for two days. Strain and bottle, tying
the corks firmly down. It is best left for about
seven days.
* * * *
(1) Where and when was Joe Hall born?
(2) When did he begin boxing? (3) Whom did
he defeat for the Australian featherweight
(4) Who won that title from
him ?
U) Sydney, June 27, 1915. (2) In 1930. (3)
Jackie McDonald, then Teddy Moroney, in
1931. (4) Merv Blandon won the championship
from Hall, but some critics credited Hall with
regaining the title when he defeated Mickey
Miller on a foul in 1937. This contest was not
officially recognised as a championship match,
however.
* * * *
(1) Is Joe Louis the world heavyweight cham-
pion’s real name? (2) Whom did Louis defeat
for the heavyweight title? (3) In how many
rounds, and where and when ? (4) Has any
opponent ever given Louis a hard fight?
(1) No. He was baptised Joseph Louis
Barrow. (2) James J. Braddock. (3) Eight
rounds, knockout, at Chicago, on June 22,
1937. (4) Max Schmeling knocked out Louis in
12 rounds at New York on June 19, 1936, and
Tommy Farr fought him to a close decision at
New York on August 30, 1937.
(1) What were the runs scored erf the fall of
wickets in the Test match in England when
England piled up the record score of 907 for
seyen wickets? (2) How were Hutton’s 364
runs scored? (3) Full Australian bowling
averages ?
(1) One for 29, two for 411, three for 546,
four for 547, five for 555, six for 770, seven
oat ' nni ' n ß s was closed at seven for
903. (2) Hutton’s score of 364 was made up
of 35 fours, 15 threes, 18 twos and 143
singles. (3) The Australian bowling averages
were:
_ , Overs. Mdns. Runs. Wickets.
Waite .. ..72 16 150 1
McCabe .. .. 38 8 85 0
O’Reilly .. ..85 26 178 3
Fleetwood-Smith ~87 11 298 1
Barnes .. .. 38 3 84 1
Hassett .. ~ 13 2 52 0
Bradman .. 3 2 6 0
* * * *
Full details of Tim Wall’s bowling when he
took all 10 wickets against N.S.W. at Sydney
Cricket Ground in February, 1933 ?
Fingleton, b. Wall, 43; W. Brown, c.
Whitington, b. Wall, 0; Bradman, c. Ryan, b.
Wall, 56; McCabe, c. Walker, b. Wall, 0;
R. Rowe, b. Wall, 0; Cummins, c. Walker, b.
Wall, 0; Love, b. Wall, 1; C. J. Hill, b. Wall,
0; W. Howell, b. Wall, 0; O’Reilly, b. Wall,
4; Stewart, not out, 2; sundries, 7; total,
113. Wall’s bowling figures were: 12.4 overs,
two maidens, 36 runs, 10 wickets. The match
was played on February 3-6, 1933, but despite
Wall’s elfort N.S.W. won by 98 runs.
Brief Answers.
F.P.C,: _ Lawson’s poem “Peter Anderson
and Cos.” is included in In the Days When the
World Was Wide, and also in vol. I of Poetical
Works of Henry Lawson (Angus and Robert-
son, 1925). In the later publication there are
considerable variations in the verses J.S.:
If it is only a mistake in registration an altera-
tion can be effected by application to the Regis-
trar-General, who will inform you what evi-
dence he requires. If, however, you want to
change the child’s name you will have to wait
until the child is 21, when it can change its
name by deed-poll. In the meantime you may,
of course, without registration, call it by any
name you choose... .R.S.: You may charge
50s. per week unless the Fair Rents Court
alters the amount D.M.: Send your in-
quiry direct to Melbourne Historical Museum,
winch will give you particulars of the period
and data about the Maclntyre party.
Answers to Correspondents
Name and address must appear on the MS.
No liability is undertaken re contributions
voluntarily submitted; and no MS. will be
returned unless stamps accompany. MS.
should be addressed to the Editor.
The Muse aroused:
S.M.:
Shall we wait until the end has come
And time it is for us to sigh—■
Contentedly to drop our bundle?
No! we cry. It is not so! And no again!
I.E.McL.:
Who took small countries by surprise
And robbed them of their food supplies,
Unheedful of their piteous cries?
—Greedy Hitler.
Who when Gabriel sounds his horn
On the resurrection morn
Will wish that he had ne’er been born ?
—Dumbfounded Hitler.
. ...G.8.: Send one to a daily on Mother’s
Day and the other to the deep, deep sea....
J.C.: Try “The Price” on a woman’s paper.
. ...S.K.C.: Good notion, but the treatment’s
meagre.. . .M. 8.: Promising... .H.F.: Queer
mixture of prose cadences and sing-song verse
rhythms... .P.K.: Send “The Warden in the
Garden” to Mr. Heffron.... J.R.S.: Examine
it closely, and you’ll find it a string of hack-
neyed and somewhat snobbish wisecracks....
W.G.8.: “Nightmare” is just that E.C.:
Cut to about 800 words “The Trapper” might
find a corner... .M.R.G.: Try them on a daily.
V.C.: Lightweight K.W.R.: It doesn’t
get anywhere... .E.A.G.: Try us with some
otners. That one adds nothing to a worn-
out theme.
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC)
CORRESPONDENTS.
Cam Bewarra: After one glance at the
lugubrious faces of the assembly, we started
looking for the bier; then we noticed it was
labelled “Bush Wedding” L.T.N.: The
dingo-stiffener is floating on an iceberg past a
lot of coconut palms; shouldn’t you have
sketched in Westminster Abbey in the back-
ground? ... .N.M.: You’ve created a batch of
freaks that w’ould make any side-showman’s
mouth water... .S.P.L.: Compressed, it might
do for a kid’s autograph book P.L.G.:
Welcome to the ten-foot postman with the de-
tached feet who says “It’s only another
bill, missus—will I rip it up?” R.M.W.:
The cyclist is freewheeling up a steep hill on
a bike with spokeless wheels while sitting
approximately four inches above the saddle....
S.T.N.: Your draughtsmanship is so bad that
your only hope of success lies in founding a
new ultra-modern 5ch001.... L.F.M.: Judging by
the size of the boy’s hand, mother ought to” be
howling with pain instead of laughing—or is
she? 8.R.G.: Why didn’t you put Mr.
Balfour and Bela Kun into your Gandhi-Con-
gress-party cartoon and bring it right up to the
minute? Bert C.: If you want an art editor’s
suicide on your conscience keep sending in
copies of characters from syndicated strips.
Nobody has tended the lamp of drama
more assiduously in Melbourne than J.
Beresford Fowler, who, since he forsook
the legitimate boards (he played with the
Firm, Nellie Stewart, Allan Wilkie and
Bert Bailey), has produced in sundry cor-
ners m the city 16 Shakspearean plays,
10 of Ibsen’s, 12 of Shaw’s, 10 of Gals-
worthy’s, eight of Coward’s, as well as
works of Eugene O’Neill, Chekhov,
Suderman, Schnitzler, Strindberg, Drink-
water and Arnold Bennett —some many
times. His latest outbreak was a read-
ing of “General Sir Hector MacDonald,”
the play of his own composition which
he submitted to Churchill because the
British P.M. makes an appearance in it.
Noel Coward cast an eye over the opus
and gave it his commendation, remarking
that he was doubtful if the play would
pass the censor in England. In the large
cast some parts had to be doubled be-
cause of the man-power problem, but
Fowler is an old hand at overcoming
difficulties. Once at the Queen’s Hail
the stage revolver was found to be minus
ammunition shortly before the murder
was to happen. Fowler sent out for the
constable on the beat, who obligingly dis-
charged his firearm offstage at the appro-
priate moment and saved the situation.


PR° BL l!i
Illustrating
the LUDOWICI
PIVOT DRIVE
LUD OWICI S
have the answer
BEHIND the fine quality and the assurance of maximum efficiency in
Ludowici Power Transmission Equipment, stand Ludowici Technicians
—men whose knowledge and experience of every power transmission re-
quirement enable them to give a ready answer to your particular problem.
Our reputation has been built, on our willingness to give an unbiassed
opinion and to recommend and supply the most suitable equipment for
each power transmission application.
You have only to ask for our advice to have it freely given.
J. C. LUDOWICI & SON LTD.
117 YORK STREET, SYDNEY
COUPLINGS
SHAFTING
GEARS & HANGERS
LUDOWICIS
VfiUUPV
TRANSMISSION
EQUIPMENT
Insure with the
AUSTRALIAN MUTUAL FIRE INSURANCE SOCIETY, LTD.
ESTABLISHED 1872.
HEAD OFFICE; INSURANCE HOUSE, 109 PITT STREET, SYDNEY
Invested Funds exceed £500,000.
All classes Marine, Fire and Accident Insurance at lowest rates.
TOURISTS’ AND TRAVELLERS’ BAGGAGE INSURED.
VICTORIAN BRANCH: 411 Collins Street, Melbourne.
QUEENSLAND BRANCH: Primary Building, Creek & Adelaide Sts., Brisbane.
Claims Promptly and Equitably Settled. Agents in all Principal Country Towns.
\Y/ r. RROWN. General Manager.
The WIE CAT
COLUMN
Felt and Textiles of Australia
Felt and Textiles and Subsidiaries.*
f Divs. v Towards
Net Pref. Pp- D. r ~
juue Profit. 6 p.c. Ord. serves, ficit.t
£ £ £ £ £
1937.. 54,894 2400 10 P- c - = 24,410 \ 24 2g5 28,505
Underwriting exes., £6799 .. )
Added goodwill, etc., £11,954 .. .. 40,4a9
Reserves new subsidiaries, £3301 . . 37,1jH
IJnexnlained addition, £1419 .. •• rfo,<39
1938 . 2400, 10 p.c. = 47,404 10,512 25.227
Added goodwill, £l2ou .. •• 26,43-.
Net additions reserves, £0616 .. .. 19,0X0
Reserves.?
1939.. 94,184 5983 10 p.c. = 57,899 1 23,321 3,505
Share-issue exes., £6981 .. )
Additions reserves, £24,068 .. .. 27,573
Added goodwill, £18,129 . . .. 9,444
Establishment accounts w/o, £2lyr .. 7,38(
1940. .140,153 14,40 V 10 p.c.= 61,058 64,695 71,982
Net reserves capitalised in subsidiaries,
£20,137 51-845
Goodwill disappears, £7670 . . . . 59,015
1941. .116,674 14,400 10 p.c.= 74,723 67,551 87,036
Share premiums, £117,984 . . . . 205,050
Unexplained additions, £13,524 • • 218,574
Share-issue exes., £5899' .. 212,6/5
Goodwill added, £39,879 . . .. 1^2,796
Debits new subsidiaries, £10,025 . . 162,771
1942. .193,861 14.400 10 p.c.=109,743 69,718 232,489
* After deducting outside shareholders’ interest.
f After deducting goodwill, etc., now £263,049.
As one of the units on the economic
battlefront, this big industrial organisa-
tion continues to gather strength and
rhomentum, which it was developing in
fine style before the outbreak of hostili-
ties. Formed in 1921, the co. is the
centre of a group of self-supporting and
complementary industries in Australia,
Maoriland and S. Africa. Chief activi-
ties were production of felt piece-goods,
carpet manufacture, wool-scouring and
-combing, etc., and manufacture of foot-
wear. All phases of production from
treatment of raw materials to output of
the finished article are undertaken. The
rapid growth of the undertaking is illus-
trated by the advance of paid capital
from £119,930 at the end of 1936 to
£1,419,839 at the close of last accounts.
Of the £f,299,909 increase the public put
up £1,039,519—£236,053, which brought
with it £117,984 of share premiums,
was gathered last term —bonus scrip ac-
counted for £135,500 and the balance was
issued mainly in payment for subsidiary
interests taken early in the piece.
Most of the £354,037 put up by
the parent’s shareholders last term
was passed to Australian pups. Expand-
ing activities in Maoriland were financed
locally. Here a tannery and plant for
production of shoe and other laces were
bought; and a wool-scouring and -car-
bonising plant, erected at Wellington to
meet requirements of manufacturing sub-
sidiaries in the Dominion, will soon be
treating wool for the British and Russian
Governments as well. The contemplated
extension of activities in S. Africa has
been shelved until after the war.
War demands have brought changes
in the character and type of production.
Airmen’s vests, jerkins for the military
forces, felt waterbottle covers and cer-
tain parts for aeroplanes are being pro-
duced in large quantities ; and shortage
of rubber has led to production of felt
substitutes in some cases. The boot fac-
tories, which have been enlarged, are
mainly turning out footwear for the
armed forces, including a new light army
boot with a wedge heel for use in the
tropics. Clog footwear is also being pro-
duced for use in factories, etc. Floor felt,
which used to be the co.’s chief line, is
now being manufactured only when plant
is held up by lack of materials for more
pressing needs. The carpet looms are,
for the most part, turning out flax canvas,
and are likely to continue to do so for
the duration. It all points to another
set of big changes that will take place
when the switch from war to peace-time
production comes. It is then that trade
and industry will need to be freed from
hampering Government controls if the
best results are to be achieved.
For the 12 months to June 30 last com-
bined net earnings of the entire organ-
isation were figured at £193,861 (up
£77,187). That was after setting aside
£237,046 (up £83,641) for the tax-
gatherer and allowing £85,683 (up £31,437)
for depreciation. The £193,861 was suffi-
cient to pay the pref. divs. and show 16.3
p.c. on average ord. capital, as against
13.6, 20.6, 15.2 and 15.2 p.c. for the four
preceding terms. Div. was kept at 10 p.c.
Here are consolidated balance-sheet
figures for the whole organisation r
1936. 1941. 1942.
Paid capital . . £119,930 £1,183,786 £1,419,839
Outside interests . . 1,000 250
Overdraft . . ■ • i 10,984 970,609 1,158,529
Sundry creditors, etc. 194,396* 343,484 476,916
Tax provision . . 146,650 260,237
Inter-co. balance . . 4,127 6,314
Freeholds . . . . 82.017 351,136 460,035
Plant . . . . 149,068 573,219 700,155
Shares other cos. . . 18,849 25,882 26,832
Stock ~ .. 133,269 1,313,211 1,792,451
Debtors . . . . 124,846 534,123 619,954
Cash, etc 3,649 25,445 18,735
* Including tax provision.
The new share and premium money was
insufficient to meet the year’s net outlay
on freehold (up £108,899), plant (up
£126,936), stocks (up £479,240) and
debtors’ balances (up £85,831), so
£187,920 was added to overdrafts (mak-
ing the total £1,158,529) and £113,052
to the amount coming to sundry credi-
tors. The year’s improvement in the
more or less liquid surplus (£795,695)
was £237,009. Chief danger lies in stocks
and the overdraft; £413,112 of the
former, however, and an equivalent
amount of debt, is in respect of wool
purchased by but undelivered to the
British Government.
Henry Jones Co-operative, Ltd.
To Re-
Oct., Profit. Dividends. Reserves, serves.
£ £. £ &
1932.. 171,066 gfp.c. = 125,140 45,926 442,242
1933.. 111,414 6| „ „ 89,885 22,029 464,271
1934.. 134,483 74 „ ~ 107,263 27,220 491,491
1935.. 149,622 8| ~ „ 125,140 24,482 515,973
1936.. 195,449 10 „ „ 143,017 52,432 568,405'*
1937.. 200,114 10 ~ „ 143,017 57,097 625,502
1938.. 192,597 10 ~ „ 143,017 49,580 675,082
1939.. 214,197 Hi „ „ 160,894 53,303 728,385
1940.. 192,210 10 ~ „ 143,017 40,193 777,578
1941.. 194,343 10 ~ „ 143,017 51,326 828,904
1942.. 198,818 10 „ „ 143,017 55,801 884,705
Those figures are for the parent only, a
purely holding co. These tor the organ-
isation as a whole give a better picture
of earning potential and how it is
behaving after elimination of outsiders’
interest;
Net income— 1939. 1940. 1941. 1942.
Australian. . £192,667 £186,298 £165,530 £200,764
Other . . 75,622 76,710 83,824 72,032
Total . . £268,289 £263,008 £249,354 £272,796
While ex-Australian profits are back to
something less than a quarter of total
earnings, local net takings have never
been higher, nothwithstanding the strict
attention given food prices by the Prices
Commissioner and the slender margins
at which defence contracts are being ful-
filled in the face of advancing costs. The
£272,796 (up £23,442) of profit from all
sources was 19 p.c. on capital, compared
with 17.4 p.c. the year before. So the
10 p.c. div. didn’t cal] for any generosity.
Because of surplus capacity canners
were able to respond promptly to war
demands from the fighting services, for
emergency stocks and from a more finan-
cial public —this in spite of departmental
controls which for a long while showed
little grasp of the magnitudes involved
in balancing production and making
most efficient use of canneries. Henry
Jones’s war effort in the jams, preserves,
condiments, etc., field has been particu-
larly impressive, civilian output, because
of this and latterly tinplate and trans-
port strictures, being narrowed down to
basic requirements. Through the pups,
manufacturing interests extend outside
the Commonwealth to Maoriland, South
Africa and Britain. Export trade used
to represent about half total produc-
tion. The misfortunes of war have
eliminated some of these markets and re-
stricted the main (British) one to the ship-
ping available. What this business now
amounts to isn’t known. But if anything
has been dropped on this account it has
so far been made up for locally.
Activities extend to equipping as well as
provisioning the troops, the engineering
shops being engaged on ordnance pro-
duction, while a separate annexe turns
out munitions.
Consolidated accounts show reserves
(£1,645,598 after deducting goodwill) to
be nearly twice as stout as the parent’s
figures indicate. That excludes tax re-
serve, in which something for other “con-
tingencies” is tossed:
1939. 1941. 1942.
Paid capital .. £1,430,173 £1,430,173 £1,430,173
Outside interests* 79,477 96,426 101,443
Creditors, etc. . . 419,858 484,279 581,145
Tax reserve, etc. .. 159,478 367,796 408,703
Suspense account 7,691 13,209
Freeholds, etc. .. 697,928 699,343
Plant etc . , 279,590 301,737 312,405
Stock’s .’. . . 872,099 1,129,476 1,273,808
Debtors . . 785.068 941,451 973,590
Shares ” . . 101,245 101,758 103,725
Cash etc. . . • ■ 745,328 826,052 894,540
Goodwill . . • • 62,542 50,966 50,935
Suspense account - 16,241
* Including proportion reserves.
The position is obviously brimming with
financial health, other eye-catching fea-
tures being the fine accumulation of cash
and conservative valuation of plant.
Though some would be applicable to
buildings, depreciation (£49,130) last year
was 16.2 p.c. on the reducing value of
the working assets.
Canners will emerge from the present
conflict with capacities larger than ever,
which presages casualties in the post-war
transition once trade stocks are replen-
ished. The IXL concern, however, is well
equipped to meet anything of the kind,
and the past is encouraging. Divs.
averaged 11 p.c. for the 20 years to the
close of accounts in 1929, sugared with
£455,492 of bonus scrip in 1927. Since,
the average has been 9 p.c., with wide
margins.
Taubmans, Ltd.
To Re- Re-
Sept., Profit. Dividends. serves, serves.
£ £ £
1933.. 24,892 8 p.c. = 20,939 3,953 102,906
1934.. 53,162 15 „ „ 39,261 13,901 116,857
Unexplained addition, £4 .. .. 116,861
1935.. 60,124 171 p.c. = 45,806 14,318 131,179
Specific reserves disclosed, £18,120.. 149,299
Share premiums, etc., £18,310 .. 167,609
1936.. 71,350 171 p.c. = 53,058 18,292 185,901
Reserves capitalised, £56,981 ..
Unexplained additions, £17,984 .. 146,904
1937.. 84,214 17A p.c. = 69,802 14,412 161.316
1938.. 81,574 17* p.c. = 69,802 11,772 173,088
Unexplained additions, £5335 ..
1939.. 82,374 16 p.c. - 63,819 18,566 196,978
Unexplained additions, £12,030 . . 209,008
1940.. 83,196 15 p.c. = 59,830 23,366 232,3/4
Reserves earmarked for taxation,
£34,442 197,932
Taubmans and Subsidiaries.*
, Dividends ~
Pref. To Re- Re-
Profit. 5 p.c. Ordinary. serves, serves.
Pref.-share brokerage, £3333.. .. 235,032
1941.. 74,196 1500 13 p.c. = 51,852 20,844 255,876
1942.. 71,031 5000 10 ~ „ 39,887 26,144 282,020
* After eliminating outside interests.
At June 30, 1941, there was £1,171,200
(book value) invested in plant and build-
ings in Australia’s white-lead, paint and
varnish industry, according to the Com-
monwealth Statistician. Over a 10-year
period recorded output of the trade has
varied like this:
Year No. Value | Year No. Value
June, Hands. .Output. June, Hands, Output.
1930.. 1420 £2,315,000 1937.. 1987 £3,540,000
1931.. 1169 1,526,000 1939.. 2271 3,905,000
1933.. 1328 1,871,000 1940.. 2367 4,304,000
1935.. 1629 2,667,000 1941.. 2408 4,718,000
The past year’s figures aren’t yet avail-
able. Regular trade was affected by the
ban on private building, strictures on
repainting, difficulties in the matter of
raw materials, of which dry colors are a
notable import, a reduced call from the
motor, electrical and furniture trades and
disappearance of most of the specialty
domestic lines Taubmans and its sub-
sidiaries used to put up. As against this,
there has been a big demand for Gov-
ernmental and essential purposes. This
is low-profit business, however, and
Taubmans reports falling turnover for
the final quarter of its latest term.
Group profits, nevertheless, weren t
much affected, the proportion available to
Taubmans, allowing for sundry adjust-
ments, contracting by only £3165.
Though the £71,031 called profit was
16.5 p.c. on ord. capital after meeting
the pref. charge, as against 18.2 p.c. the
year before, the board took a deep bite
at the div., reducing it from 13 p.c. to
10 p.c. That left £26,144 for reserves, a
margin sufficient to encourage the hope
that the present rate will be maintained.
Taxation and depreciation, not shown
in the consolidated sheet, can be relied
upon to have been adequately provided
for.
With assets totalling £976,320, the
organisation is unrecognisable as the
£6OO firm which G H. Taubman started
in 1902. Under enterprising yet cautious
management, the business now extends
throughout Australia and Maoriland.
Main factory is at St. Peters (N.S.W.) ;
there is another at Wellington (M.L.),
and branches and/or subsidiaries at
Brisbane, Adelaide and Perth. There
was a link-up in 1929 with Pinchin, John-
son and Co., the big English manufac-
turer acquiring a majority interest, and
annually expanding connections became
the rule before war created a changed
set of conditions.
The English association has proved of
great value on the raw-material, as well
as the technical, side. Reserve stocks
are now running down, £112,353 more
than replaced being used up last term:
Parent —v Consolidated
~ 1933, 1938. 1941. 1942.
Paid capital. . £261.740 £398,867 £498,867 £498,867
n 49,675 49,684
Outsiders*
?ax d r r Ler r ve itorS S 2? SJSS
Inter-co. bal. - - 6,956 6,936
Freeholds .. 98,463 123,515 220,530 221,701
Plant etc .. 44,882 01,422 /5,767 72,650
Stocks •• 88,187 138,942 494,107 381,754
Debtors .. 123,415 71,811 196,719 151,809
Shares other cos. 64,874 265,916 403 718
Cash Consols, etc. 3,608 2,143 12,751 133,350
* Including proportion reserves. t Including con-
tingency reserves.
An accompanying phenomenon was an
expansion of £120,599 in Government


INVENTORS.—Have you an idea worth patenting?
Griffith, Hassel and Griffith, Patent Attorneys,
Asbestos House, Cr. York and Barrack Streets, Sydney,
obtain Commonwealth and foreign patents.— Advt.
* # * *
DAVIES & COLLISON, Patent Attorneys, Collins
House, 360 Collins Street, Melbourne, C.l. Austra-
lian and overseas Patents and Trade Marks.—Anv-r,
TO-DA Y
the latent strength of the Allied Powers is fully aroused. Confidently
we are facing the common task —combining, maintaining and intensifying
all our war efforts.
Fully realising the urgency of Australia’s Defence requirements and the
imperative need of keeping up Timber supplies, THATCHER & OBERG
are loyally doing their utmost in this important branch of war-time
service—working for the Allied victory that will surely come.
’Phone:
MU1221
(5 lines)
THATCHER & OBERG Pty. Ltd.
Timber Merchants - - - - Detail Joiners
Vat Builders - - - - Flooring: Specialists
GARDENER'S ROAD MASCOT
securities and cash. As things have
panned out, the £lOO,OOO of pref. capital
got in a couple of years back could have
been done without. Still, its nominal cost
makes it very handy with taxation as it
is, and a ready supply of liquids may
prove very desirable later on.
Clifford Love and Co., Ltd. (Sydney)
Net To Nominal
Sept., Profit. Dividends. Reserves. Reserves.!
£ £ £ £
1933.. 25,320 10 p.c. = 21,138 4,182 92,291
Premiums on shares, £5250 .. .. 97,541
1934.. 25,506 10 p.c. = 21,336 4,170 101,711
1935.. 26,688 10 „ „ 22,050 4,638 106,349
1936.. 26,586 10 „ „ 22,188 4,398 110,747
1937.. 26,340 10 „ „ 22,188 4,152 114,899
Insurance reserve taken in, £12,120 .. 127,019
1938.. 27,910 10 p.c. = 22,188 5,722 132,741
Div. equalisation reserve, £27,500 . . 160,241
1939.. 29,732 10 p.c. = 22,188 7,544 167,785
1940.. 32,461 10 „ „ 22,188 10,273 178,058
1941.. 23,303 10 „ „ 22,188 1,115 179,173
1942.. 26,975 10 „ ~ 22,188 4,787 183,960
t Subject to trade-marks, etc., £72,500, and ex-
cluding contingencies, depreciation, etc., now
£164,963.
As in other spheres of business, war
has brought wide and rigid price-control,
as well as a host of other restrictions,
into the highly-competitive drygoods
field. Still, despite the time lag between
the rise in costs and that in selling
prices and the heavy raids of the tax-
gatherer upon earnings, there has been
no falter in this co.’s distribution to share-
holders, thanks largely to careful man-
agement, a sound financial position and
efficient plant, which turns out some well-
established proprietary lines for which
there is a very satisfactory demand from
both the services and the public. Ever
since 1922, when Brown and Poison’s
was taken over and the public first be-
came interested in the scrip, those on the
register have had a steady 10 p.c., with
a 2\ p.c. sweetener added during the fat-
test years, and there were some new share
issues at par as well.
Although Japanese aggression cut off
the supply of some Asiatic lines, turn-
over has kept on expanding, mainly be-
cause of the demands of the Allied forces.
After setting aside an extra £5OOO for the
taxgatherer (£35,000), £13,897 (up £1664)
for depreciation and an unspecified
amount for other contingencies, there was
an improvement of £3672 in last term’s
net earnings. The £26,975 of profit
claimed was 12.1 p.c. on capital, as
against 10.5, 14.6, 13.4, 12.5, 11.8 and
11.9 p.c. back to 1936. That leaves out
of the reckoning a net addition of £14,900
to the reserve for depreciation and con-
tingencies, making it £164,963, equal to
97.6 p.c, of the book value of plant, and
44.1 p.c. of the book value of premises
and plant combined. So the margin be-
tween earnings and distributions may be
a bit wider than the figures in the table
suggest. Another comforting feature is
that, including the depreciation, etc., re-
serve and deducting intangibles (£72,500),
capital and reserves combined need only
turn in 4.5 p.c. to cover 10 p.c. on capital
alone.
Here are balance-sheet figures:
1935. 1940. 1941. 1942.
Paid capital. . £221,884 £221,884 £221,884 £221,884
Mortgages .. 4.451 —•—■
Trade debts . . 24,663 30,090 22,481 17,334
Tax reserve .. 5,500 16,500 25,000 35,000
Properties . . 163,123 197,973 204;050 204,564
Plant, etc.* . . 143,913 168,922 166,191 168,943
Stocks .. 76,752 93,660 92,516 89,420
Debtors . . 32,305 45,030 49,456 69,371
Cash, etc. . . 3,984 21,909 21,434 37,890
* At cost.
Since 1935 a net addition of £66,471 to
the book value of fixed assets has been
accompanied by an expansion of £85,420
in the more or less liquid surplus, now
£169,347, up £28,422 last term.
Colombian finance decisions affecting
Pato Consolidated and Asnazu Gold
Dredging obscure immediate div.-paying
potential of Placer Development, which
has already cut its half-yearly rate from
60 cents to 25 cents Canadian because of
Jap immobilisation of Bulolo Gold
Dredging, New Guinea. Two increases
of Colombian income tax are announced
—one of 50 p.c. for the years 1943-44,
for which defence bonds will be issued ;
the other of 35 p.c. for an indefinite
period. In addition, 20 p.c. of gold sales
to the Government will be paid for in
bonds. These bond “purchases” are
limited to 60 p.c. of the previous term's
taxable profit, and will cease when a total
of 60,000,000 pesos is reached. In 1941
Pato’s income-tax provisions amounted
to $345,717 out of pre-tax net earnings of
$2,029,650 Canadian ; that was on top of
gold and export imposts of $276,981 pre-
viously paid. Earnings were on a reduced
scale in the latest term, for which full
accounts aren’t yet to hand.
* * * *
When available, final figures will prob-
ably show Westralia’s gold yield for 1942
to be over 200,0000 z. below that for
1941 and the lowest for many years.
Decline is attributed to shortage of labor,
which considerably affected big producers
and Was fatal to some of the small. No
new finds of importance were reported.
Dividends were down about one-half.
* * * *
Two Westralian gold stablemates
have issued annual reports. One, Lady
Shenton, writes of its misfortunes, includ-
ing failure to get labor and a loan of
£6250 from the Mines Department to
work its Maranoa option, and will ask
shareholders to pass a special liquidation
resolution at* the meeting on lanuary 12.
At June 30 last co. owed £245. Its prin-
cipal assets were plant and machinery
£lOOO, stores, etc., £lOO, debtors £354 and
cash £9B.
The other, Spargo’s Reward, dolefully
reports a Humpty Dumpty fall in profit
from £24,970 to £2793. The tumble, the
manager said, was due in part to a hold-
up in development during the previous
term because of water troubles, which
made it necessary to mine lower-grade
ore, and in part to the shortage of labor,
particularly during the last seven months
of the year. He estimated ore reserves
at 15,200 tons positive averaging 5.32dwt.
and 25,900 tons probable (5.9dwt.). He
added that the year’s development was
most satisfactory, and the existence of
high values below 400 ft. most encourag-
ing ; still, “after consulting together many
times and considering the position from
every angle,” the directors decided under
war-time conditions to close the mine
down and apply to the Mines Depart-
ment for financial assistance for main-
tenance and preventing the workings
being flooded. A reply is expected by
the time the meeting is held on January
11. A year ago the board was talking
of lifting treatment to 3000 tons a month
when it could see two years’ ore in
reserve.
* * * 9
London gossips that Youanmi may
reopen its old Westralian mine, now on
a care-and-maintenance basis, after the
war. There is said to be nearly 200,000
tons of normally-payable ore in the work-
ings. Decision of the co. a year ago to
give up was hotly resented by the local
miners’ union, which declared that half
a million pounds’ worth of gold' was
visible, and that the co. could go on if
it cared to. The Westralian Minister for
Mines said he could do nothing, and,
snapping its fingers at the union, the co.
ceased operations, withdrew the pumps
and left.
* * * *
Westralia’s coal production is slipping,
owing to what the enraged “West Aus-
tralian” describes as the inability or un-
willingness of the Collie coalmine man-
agements to meet the State’s war-time
demand, and difficulty is being experi-
enced in making good the shortage by
importation. Miners and mineowners
blame each other for the unsatisfactory
response to the Coal Commission’s appeal
for an additional 2000 tons a week. State
Government is by far the largest con-
sumer of Collie coal, using it in its rail-
ways and electric-power plants. A Select
Committee is urged to track down source
of the trouble and rectify it.
METAL INDUSTRY
AND THE WAR EFFORT
BROKEN HILL SOUTH
CHAIRMAN’S SPEECH.
The important part played by metal companies in the war effort
was emphasised by Sir Colin Fraser, chairman of Broken Hill South,
Ltd., at the adjourned Annual Meeting on 30th December, 1942.
“While the principal business of the company
is mining at Broken Hill,” the chairman said,
“its investment of more than £1,250,000 in
shareholdings in other companies gives it a
proprietary interest extending over a wide field
of Australian industry.
“The more important developments during
the year, in connection with these companies,
include (a) extensions of the zinc plant in Tas-
mania; ( b ) extension of Australian Aluminium
Co.’s works in N.S.W.; (c) extensions of the
works of Metal Manufactures, Ltd., and Austral
Bronze Co. Pty., Ltd., in N.S.W., and the
establishment in Victoria of a branch works by
Austral Bronze Co. Pty., Ltd., and also a
works in course of erection for Metal Manu-
factures, Ltd., primarily as a security measure
in response to the expressed wish of the Federal
Government; (d) the coming into commission
of the insulated electrical cable works in N.S.W.;
(e) successive extensions of the Commonwealth
Aircraft Corporation’s works in Victoria to
meet the growing demands of Australian defence
for aircraft. Practically the whole of this ex-
pansion of industrial enterprise is concerned with
meeting urgent defence demands.
“The group of companies responsible for the
creating and carrying on of large-scale industry
of the diverse character I have indicated has
made a notable contribution to Australia’s ad-
vancement and well-being. Important as these
industries were to the Commonwealth in time of
peace, they are proving of much greater im-
portance now that Australia is called upon to
play her part in the great world struggle. The
industries constituting the group indicated, while
avoiding limelight and advertisement, have put
their full weight behind Australia’s war effort,
and, particularly as concerns metal production,
have contributed, and are contributing, largely
to meet vital oversea needs of the Empire and
her Allies. Some day the measure of the part
these industries have played will be correctly
assessed and widely recognised.
PRIVATE ENTERPRISE.
“Such development of industry as is here
sketched constitutes a good example of the
growth of private enterprise. There are those
in the community, however, who take every
opportunity to disparage private enterprise, and
particularly large-scale efficient business, and to
even brand it a wicked thing based on the profit
motive. They fail to realise that large com-
panies consist of groups of shareholders—in the
main small shareholders—banded together to do
things that these people could not do individu-
ally. The profit motive, or urge to earn re-
wards commensurate with services rendered,
actuates not only company shareholders and
other proprietors of businesses who put their
savings to work as capital, but the managerial
and supervisory staffs —the forgotten people,
without whom industry would soon come to a
standstill —and also the rank and file of the
workers. Ask the more capable artisans whether
they prefer to work piecework or daywork, and
you will get only one answer—piecework; they,
too, are actuated by the profit motive, and are
keen to turn their talents to the best account.
The talk of a new order by people who would
wreck the existing order, without the vaguest
idea of what is to replace it, is dishonest.
“In Great Britain, the home of private enter-
prise, it is confidently believed that the system
which, with all its imperfections, has made such
a great contribution to the well-being of the
community can, and will, be adapted to fairly
meet in the future the responsibilities which it
owes to the nation, to the consumers or users,
to the employees, and to the proprietors—:be
they companies or individuals. In connection
particularly with manufacturing industry, a
group of leading industrialists is now working
on the problem, taking it as axiomatic that
the spirit which should animate industry is
service to the community as a whole. There are
naturally diverse views held by experienced in-
dustrialists as to how shortcomings of the sys-
tem, revealed by experience, should be minimised
or eliminated, and as to how far industry as a
whole should, in connection with its compre-
hensive organisation, seek assistance from the
Government. They are, however, unanimously
of opinion that Government ownership and
operation of productive industry in time of
peace would be bound to fail for reasons which
are obvious.
“As Australia, too, sees her future bound up
to considerable extent with the lands bordering
the Pacific Ocean, it is well to again look be-
yond ourselves and observe the prevailing
thoughts in the United States of America on
the new order which is to follow the war. ‘The
key to the expansive, purposive concept of eco-
nomics which underlies the new American out-
look (quoting from a “World Digest” summary
of an article in the London “Economist”) is
expanding markets, a mass consumption great
enough to use mass production, a future planned
in terms of increase and not curtailment. On
this agreement is absolute. There remains the
vital problem of how these new statndards of
human consumption and welfare are to be
built up, maintained and expanded. The instru-
ment will be industrial capitalism, operating,
broadly speaking, under conditions of private
enterprise. This does hot preclude a measure
of Government control. The Under-Secretary
of State (Mr. Sumner Wells) believes that, given
sound national policies directed toward the
benefit of the majority, and not of the minority,
and real security and equality of opportunity
for all, reliance on the ingenuity, initiative and
enterprise of our citizens, rather than on any
form of bureaucratic management,, will in the
future best assure the liberties and best pro-
mote the material welfare of our people.’
ASSISTANCE TO INDUSTRY.
“If this is the road Australia, too, must travel,
the new order will grow out of all that is best
in the old order, and the Government should
plan now to give the maximum assistance to
industry to prepare itself for the adjustments
necessary to meet the transition from war to
peace. This involves freeing industry from all
unnecessary controls and restrictions which
hamper freedom of action; it also involves
helping industry to maintain and build up
vigor and strength. The task which Australia
will face in providing employment as demobilisa-
tion progresses will be a herculean one, pre-
senting even more urgency and difficulty than
mobilising for war. It will certainly tax to the
limit the ingenuity, energy and resources of
Governments and commercial industry.
“One recalls a closing statement of Mr. J. B.
Chifley, the Treasurer, in his Budget speech
last September: ‘No legerdemain can produce
the needs for war. Neither can they be
obtained by easy financial expedients.’
THE OUTLOOK.
“Shareholders will expect from me a few
observations on the outlook. It can, of course,
only be a short-term forecast.
“With half the current financial year ended,
it is, I suggest, reasonable to expect that, pro-
vided productive operations continue uninter-
ruptedly, mine output for the year ending 30th
June, 1943, should not fall far short of that
obtained last year. Any further draw, how-
ever, from the mines of man-power for the
fighting services would upset the balance of
our mine organisation and seriously affect out-
put. A reduction in output, together with de-
teriorating cost factors, could not fail to have
marked effect on increasing production costs
at Broken Hill, while at the works at Port Pirie
the same rising cost factors, together with the
increasing costs of coal, coke, smeltery sup-
plies and sea freights, are resulting in higher
smelting and refining charges, apd thus in
dearer metals.
“The rate of the upward trend in cost factors
during the last six months and still in progress
is really disturbing. This inflationary move-
ment is, of course, Australia wide, and, as
already mentioned, the Government alone can
take the steps necessary to prevent it getting
out of control.
“On the whole, there is reason to hope that
the financial results from our mine will
approximate for the current year those recorded
for the year ended June, 1942. Our revenue
from investments, however, fell by £43,000 last
year, and can hardly fail to show some further
decline during the current year.
“I desire to express appreciation of the assist-
ance given our industry, both on the mining
and smelting sides, by the Federal Government
authorities and the State Governments con-
cerned in connection with the provision of man-
power and essential requirements such as oil-
fuel, coal and coke, timber and other supplies,
also rail and sea transportation, without which
assistance it would have been impossible to
maintain production.”


NITROGEN and its
value to humanity . • .
Crop production is dependent on plant nutrients
in the soil. Of these Nitrogen compounds are of
premier importance. In past centuries the fertility
of the soil was dependent on the inconspicuous
labours of minute nitrifying bacteria. Today’s
intensive crops, whether sugar, vegetables or fruit,
are supplied with their Nitrogen requirements by
fertilisers from Chemical Industry.
The same Nitrogen, in the form of Explosives, is
the main sinew of war, and in happier times the
willing slave of the civil and mining engineer.
Blasting Explosives win ores from the earth, level
mountains or divert rivers from their courses. Of
all industries essential to national success and
progress Nitrogen Fixation is one of the most
important.
IMPERIAL CHEMICAL INDUSTRIES
OF AUSTRALIA & NEW ZEALAND LTD.
ICIANZI
'THAT'
EXECUTORS WHO NEVER DIE
Do you realise that when you appoint an individual as your executor or trustee
he may not outlive his trust? The result can be anything but an advantage to your
estate. The responsibility which you were prepared to entrust tp youi _ nen
pass into the hands of someone in whom you would not have the same faith. In any
event, the costs of a new appointment are a charge agamst your estatm The
thing is to appoint an executor who never dies. Burns Philp T P ' tbe
a permanent institution under experienced and capable dir ® ct ~ t an ‘ d
advantage of all the accumulation of knowledge possessed by its director a d
Stives of finance, taxation, and investment. If you
of the service which it offers write for a booklet which gives you all the ssary
James Burns - Robert John Nosworthy - Lewis Armstrong - Joseph Mitchell
MANAGER—C. H. Chester
Burns Philp Trust
C O AV PAN Y
limited
TELEPHONE ; B 7901
BRIDGE STREET. SYDNEY
Box G.P.O., Sydney.
Business. Rollery. Etc.
The Word and the Deed
During 1941 Australians lost a big pro-
portion of their customary living stand-
ard. Not so many of them lost it through
lack of income; the majority felt the
pinch through the disappearance of
things one usually spends money on.
There has been a marked absence of
numerous types of clothing, foods,
luxuries and transport facilities, and in
some instances the effect has been severe.
Coupons are an increasing necessity. In
the case of clothing back purchases are
sti|l helping to eke out rationed supplies,
but in the matter of transport and certain
foods, etc., the position has already been
acute. Man-power, too, has become a
No. 1 problem with employers, and there
is no doubt about the generally wide-
spread and severe nature of the burden
imposed by the necessity to beat the
Japanese, who have shown themselves to
be tough, tenacious and cunning, es-
pecially in the terrain over which we have
had to fight them. Australia has of
necessity become something of a con-
tinental fortress within the limitations
of its population and munitions in-
dustry, helped by. such overseas assist-
ance as has been spared from the
European front.
It is not unlikely that as 1943 pro-
gresses in some respects the exactions of
war on the civilian will become severer
still, and it can certainly be taken for
granted that expansion in our war pro-
duction will be demanded. Already dur-
ing the first half of the financial year that
ends on June 30 next the cost of war Eas
been far above Budget estimates, and,
whereas in 1941-42 war ran Australia
into £320 million, in 1942-43 it looks as
though the figure will exceed £5OO mil-
lion, as against a Budget figure of £440
million. In October and November the
average war expenditure was at the rate
of £47 million a month, which works out
at £564 million a year. Figures often
mean little to the average person, but
here is a sum that cannot be ignored,
Before the war defence was a thing
that cost a few millions a year ;
is taking more than halt of everything
we supply or produce in the coun ry.
Australia is no longer primarily a wool-
grower, wheatgrower and minor manu-
facturer ; it is a nation thrown back on
to all its resources m a fight tor itsi exist-
ence-improvismg, converting and sub-
stitutmg—and though the position
now seem to be turning from the defen-
sive to the offensive, for the civilian
means an even greater .
the national fighting fund Such contri-
butions are, when it is all boiled ow ,
more a matter of materials an sernc
than of money, but the money side is in-
escapable, because money is or should
be, an honest record and medium for all
*ose goods and
&ervices should be accompanied by the
j. ak j n g by the nation, of the equivalent
mon °’ otherwise we simply falsify the
national books and finish up blackguard-
j ng eac b other in the social misery that
follows inflation and its confusing and
revolutionary consequences,
j n spite of the huge size of our war
commitments, it is quite within the
bounds of possibility this year for the
way of the civilian to be made less hard
in many directions. We all know that
the prime purpose of rationing and
rationalisation is to help, not hinder, the
war effort ■, but it is also apparent to
many that the war effort has in s pme
cases been hindered rather than-helped
by misapplied official control. It re-
quires skill, ability and hardheaded com-
monsense to do a job like that now re-
quired of us ; we had no previous experi-
ence of total war, and the problem is
one demanding all our resources, properly
assembled. So much initiative is taken
from the individual that the Government
and its servants have far greater respon-
sibility thrown on them than in peace-
time.
In this change-over Australia has
been slipping badly for over a year. In-
stead of accepting the responsibility at its
full weight, the present Government has
indulged itself in all manner of political
vanities and jealousies, making political
appointments to jobs where the experi-
ence of experts was essential, and toying
with experiments when hard realities
were only too obviously in front of us.
In fact, it has been impossible for many
of the more able Australians to co-
operate with the central controls of our
war effort in 1942. They have been
treated with scorn by cocksure Ministers
and their underlings.
A shaking-down—or a shaking-up,
whichever you prefer—of all this poli-
tical-industrial-defence tangle in 1943
could do much towards a greater war
effort at a not much greater expense to the
people. Misdirection and defective man-
agement are costing the country far too
high a percentage of the entire war ex-
penditure. Politics continually keep inter-
fering with the man-power question, just
as they have interfered with the war-time
financial policy. If only a proportion of
these mistakes can be remedied in 1943
(and only the dullest-witted Minister
could fail to see the numerous weaknesses
now showing up in Labor’s war pro-
gramme), then the output and effort of
each person can also be raised without
further sacrifice by themselves.
We are expending far too much of
'our substance in trying to get a favorable
decision in this war to suffer further
political frivolities and civil-service
failure. Australian blood is being shed
every day in actual lighting, and every
minute that can be saved in getting vital
equipment and supplies up to the fighting
men means that their chances of victory
are brought that much closer. It is there-
fore an outrage to the conscience and
feelings of many people to see Dedman-
ism continuing on its preposterous way
when there are so many more essential
jobs of rationalisation that need doing,
and so many departmental decisions that
are required to be made and so much
delay in the making of them.
One thing which will remain to the
everlasting disgrace of the present Gov-
ernment is its financial policy. Its taxa-
tion rates amount to extortion on the
higher incomes and tail off to a joke,
when our £5OO million war expenditure
is considered, in respect of the 2,780,000
wage-earners receiving £8 a week and
under. This group takes as its annual
income very nearly £6OO million, and
1,480,000 of its number get between £4
and £8 a week, representing £430 mil-
lion in total. Because of its voting power
there has been a cowardly shirking of
taxation responsibility by the present
Government; and, oddly, in Canada and
Britain, where tax on this income group
is far higher than in Australia, the re-
sponse to public-borrowing appeals in
addition to taxation has been far better
than in the Commonwealth. It seems
that the millions of Australians who are
at the receiving end of all this misplaced
Labor-party “kindness” are scared of its
long-term results, too ; there has been a
hoarding of notes and currency here that
is not paralleled in any other Empire
country.
This failure in Australia to do a
straightforward job of financing the war
—a job that is not hindered by enemy
interference, like that of fighting the war
—makes the Prime Minister’s New Year
appeal, “We must fix our minds on the
tasks at our hands, to the exclusion of
everything that is paltry and miserable,”
little other than a mockery. The Govern-
ment preaches austerity and necessary
sacrifice but continues to make political
profit wherever it can regardless of cost
to the war effort or the future of Aus-
tralia.
We saw on New Year’s Day, as we
have seen before, that only those willing
to be governed are governed in this coun-
try. Tens of thousands of waterside and
other workers defied the Government’s
order for them to work. The Curtin
Government retains office by the barest
majority, it is true. But no Gov-
ernment in Australia’s present diffi-
culties can do the job urgently required
of it without governing. That is where,
this country is being sadly let down.
There is no sound government here in
matters of finance, the political motives
behind the whole budgetary framework
being conducive to the most vicious in-
flation. In other matters of administra-
tion the position is frequently as bad,
though not so self-evident as in the
matter of the national finances. There
the story is plainly written in the figures
issued by the Government itself.
Melbourne Stock Exchange is going
through the throes of a reformation of its
committee and, to some extent, its policy.
The disturbance dates from the passing
out of the picture of the late W. Forster
Woods, who exercised during his chair-
manship a very strong influence over the
affairs of the Exchange. A reaction
against the old order has coincided with
his passing and with the intrusion of
National Security Regulations into the
conduct of all Stock Exchange dealings.
Some forecast a more progressive policy
by Melbourne ’Change, with greater
attention to the investor’s interest and to
politics as they affect investment.
* * * *
The Victorian Chamber of Manufac-
tures, the Employers’ Federation and the
Melbourne Chamber of Commerce at a
joint meeting have accused the Federal
Government of using the National Secu-
rity Act for purposes of its own policy,
regardless of the war effort. It was
alleged also that the Government under
the same conditions was “obviously
attempting to break up the existing order
of things for the purpose of substituting
a species of totalitarianism in Australia.”
The new Commonwealth powers asked
for would centralise control in Canberra,
“where the fate of everybody would rest
in the hands of a small number of ambi-
tious politicians.” Whatever the Govern-
ment’s motive in respect to its asked-for
additional powers it has, fouled its nest,
by its tolerance of the Communist party,
its adoption of many socialistic principles
and its weakness towards militant union-
ism, to an extent that makes its brand of
democracy suspect to people who have
respect for Australia’s record in the past.
Australia has nothing to thank bureau-
cracy or socialism for. They simply repre-
sent an increasing parasitical growth on
our economic body. If the fungus con-
tinues to grow, through the extension of
compulsory unionism and other regimen-
tation that places more power in the hands
of bureaucrats and minor despots, the
essential functions behind production and
decent living will have great difficulty in
surviving.


.Ill
I
dUlU
Try the new Roussel Rupture Appliance Free.
Enables you to do the hardest work with com-
fort and security. Definitely holds, a condition
absolutely necessary for possible improvement
or recovery. Recommended by Doctors every-
where. Satisfaction guaranteed no matter
where you live. Send for details, self measure-
ment form, testimonials and 14 days’ free trial
offer. No obligation.
THE ROUSSEL APP™A.IVCE CO..
DEPT. 27, 84 PITT ST.. SYDNEY.
lODINE
The Chief of the General Staff
in an official pamphlet to troops
in the tropics advises the carry-
ing of lODINE not only for
bites, cuts and wounds, but to
make jungle water safe to drink
by putting three drops of
lODINE in their water canteen
and waiting 30 minutes before
drinking.
The full recognition of lODINE
in the field of medicine and
therapy has created an unprece-
dented demand.
lODINE FOR FIRST AID
A most effective antiseptic and
a great protection against infec-
tion.
lODINE costs little, but its anti-
septic value is incalculable.
lODINE FOR A.R.P .
Write for a free copy of
“Health Hints for War-time.”
There’s a MEDICINE CHEST
in your lODINE bottle —learn
how to use it.
Obtainable everywhere.
lODINE EDUCATIONAL
BUREAU, LONDON.
Representatives:
R. DUNDAS SMITH & SON,
44 Margaret Street,
SYDNEY.
• »
«l
%
m
i 3
"s
it
Established 1808 in Keign of George 111.
STABILITY
The “Atlas” has seen many
battles, including the Battle of
Waterloo, and has emerged
from them all with greater
strength and prestige.
FIRE ACCIDENT MARINE
ATLAS
ASSURANCE COMPANY, LTD.
( England )
ATLAS BUILDINGS. 8 SPRING ST., SYDNEY,
GUY H. HEATH, Manager, N.S.W,
E. V. ELDER,
Assistant Manager for Australia & New Zealand.
LEONARD PETTITT,
Manager for Australia & New Zealand.
7/6 PAID FOR
ORIGINAL JOKE IDEAS.
Educational.
TECHNICAL EDUCATION BY
CORRESPONDENCE.
The DEPARTMENT OF EDUCATION
offers through the SYDNEY TECHNICAL
COLLEGE the following courses by correspon-
dence:—
ENGINEERING COURSES: Motor
Mechanics, Fitting and Machining, Engineer-
ing Trades Drawing, Steam Engine Driving
and Boiler Attendants, Diesel Engine Opera-
tion, Suction (Producer) Gas.
TRADE COURSES: Electrical Trades (Elec-
trician’s License), Carpentry and Joinery,
Building.
PRINTING COURSES: Composing, Printers’
English and Arithmetic, Linotype Operation.
SANITATION COURSES: Sewer Plumbing,
Water Plumbing, House Drainage.
RURAL COURSES: Agriculture, Care of
\nimals, Sheep and Woolclassing, Station
Bookkeeping, Farm Science, Farm Arithmetic,
Farm Mechanics, Pig-raising.
COMMERCIAL AND SECRETARIAL
• COURSES: Accountancy, Auditing, Commer-
cial Law, Bookkeeping, Business Principles,
Shorthand, Commercial Correspondence, Cost
Accountancy, Typewriting.
ART COURSES: Ticket Writing, Short Display
Card Writing, Dressmakers’ Art, Elementary
Art.
HOME HANDICRAFTS COURSES: Dress-
making and Millinery.
CERTIFICATE COURSES: Health, Meat and
Food Inspection, Local Government and
Shire Clerks
PUBLIC EXAMINATION COURSES : Nurses’
Entrance, Police Entrance, Telephonists and
Intermediate Certificate.
PREPARATORY COURSES: English, Mathe-
matics and Mechanics (to approximately
Leaving Certificate standard).
SECONDARY COURSES: English, History,
Geography, Mathematics I (Arithmetic and
Algebra), Mathematics II (Geometry and
Trigonometry), French, Latin, Art, Business
Principles and Bookkeeping (to Intermediate
Certificate standard)-.
OPEN TO ALL WHO CANNOT PERSON-
ALLY ATTEND EVENING CLASSES AT
SYDNEY OR COUNTRY TECHNICAL
COLLEGES.
FEES.
25/- a year or 10/- a term: Single subjects.
Half fees to students under 21 years and re-
ceiving less than 30/- weekly.
P. D. RIDDELL,
Superintendent of Technical Education.
“"mail ’coupon” for "syllabus.
TO The Secretary, Correspondence Teaching
Division, Sydney Technical College, Ultimo.
Please send me, without obligation, full details
of the correspondence
course.
Name
Address
NOTICE.
Returns of Insurance Premiums Required
from Persons, etc.. Insuring with Any
Insurance Company Not Registered in
New South Wales.
Pursuant to the Fire Brigades Act, 1909-1927.
ALL persons, firms, companies and associa-
tions being owners, trustees or agents for any
goods or property within the Sydney Fire Dis-
trict, and every other Fire District in the State
of New South Wales to which the Fire Brigades
Act, 1909-1927, has been applied, in respect of
which premiums are paid to an insurance com-
pany not registered in the State, are hereby
notified that they are required to send to the
Board of Fire Commissioners of New South
Wales returns showing the amount of such
premiums paid by them in respect of the said
property to such insurance companies during
the year 1942.
The time appointed for the receipt of the re-
turns is on or before the 30th January, 1943;
subject to a penalty not exceeding £1 per day
for every day of default.
Note. —Returns are required only of the
proportion of the premiums properly charge-
able in respect of the Fire Risk during the time
such property was in any Fire District under
the said Act.
By Order of the Board of Fire Commissioners
of New South Wales.
H. M. WEBB,
213 Castlereagh Street, Secretary.
Sydney.
Returns of Insurance Premiums Required
from Insurance Companies.
Pursuant to the Fire Brigades Act, 1909-1927.
ALL insurance companies, as defined by the
above Act, are hereby notified that they are
required to send to the Board of Fire Com-
missioners of New South Wales returns show-
ing the total amount of the premiums received
by or due to such companies in respect of risks
against fire during the year ending 31st Decem-
ber, 1942, within the Sydney Fire District and
every other Fire District in the State of New
South Wales to which the Fire Brigades Act,
1909-1927, applies; less any part of such
premiums actually paid by way of reinsurance
to any other insurance companies contributing
under the said Act.
The time appointed for receipt of the returns
is on or before the 30th January, 1943; sub-
ject to a penalty not exceeding Five pounds
for every day of default.
Forms upon which to make the required re-
turns may be obtained from the undersigned.
By Order of the Board of Fire Commissioners
of New South Wales.
H. M. WEBB,
213 Castlereagh Street, Secretary.
Sydney.
The mission from the U.S. Board of
Economic Warfare, which has made a
preliminary investigation of the Glen
Davis and other shale-oil deposits, is
composed of V. V. Jacomini (petroleum
technologist), H. S. Bell (petroleum engi-
neer) and H. F. Hebley (specialist in
mechanised mining). The mission has
come to the Commonwealth by arrange-
ment with the Australian Government.
Supply Minister Beasley says that if
N.S.W. shale-oil fields indicate important
additions to our fuel requirements within
a reasonable time, the U.S. Government
will be prepared to put in certain plant
and equipment and supply technical
assistance. The name of V. V. Jacomini
is not unfamiliar to some Australians,
particularly those who were interested in
the Standard Oil Co. of Australia. He
came to Australia a few years ago with a
design for the Renco retort for which good
results were claimed, but Standard Oil
had little money and a dismal record
behind it. Standard Oil, in which J. H.
M. Moate was prominent, proposed to
sell its Baerami (N.S.W.) shale interests
to a new co. in which B. S. B. Stevens
and Alex. J. Gibson (of Julius, Poole
and Gibson) were interested, Jacomini
retorts to be used ; but the £3,000,000
proposition never came into active opera-
tion. There was some litigation in con-
nection with the Baerami leases last year.
According to N.S.W. Mines Department
information the Baerami shales don’t
measure up to those of Newnes in
quality even when the thicker seams of
shale-p/r/j'-cannel coal are taken on a
superficial basis. But at Newnes tech-
nical difficulties are largely responsible
for the economic failure of National Oil so
far. George Davis isn’t managing director
now, and the Commonwealth Govern-
ment, through Mr. Beasley’s department,
is largely in control. One fault with the
retorting system in operation at Newnes
is said to be the size of the units ; numer-
ous smaller retorts would give better
results, it is claimed in some quarters.
Perhaps Mr. Jacomini will have some-
thing to report in this connection.
* H= * *
War-damage insurance premiums col-
lected in 1942 are estimated to have
totalled £7.2 million, while the sum
insured for was about £2750 million.
Losses in New Guinea and Darwin, the
principal areas affected by the Japanese
onslaught, have not yet been accurately
ascertained. Though most of the war-
damage premiums have been collected
from areas outside the battle zone —prin-
cipally from the capital cities —the prin-
ciple on which they were levied was per-
fectly fair. War losses should be regarded
as national losses, and they should be
spread over the nation. In the present
case property losses are spread over
property-owners as a body, irrespective
of where they live or carry on business,
and regardless of the greatness or small-
ness of the underwriting risk run. The
householder in Papua pays the same rate
of premium as does the citizen of Hobart,
and the owners of a strategically impor-
tant steelworks pay no more (per cent.)
than the operators of a country bakery.
In 1943 rates for war-damage insurance
will remain as in 1942, and where insur-
ance was compulsory last year it will be
compulsory this. The question arises as to
whether the Commonwealth has not
already accumulated a fund, out of the
seven million received, sufficient to meet
all claims for damage incurred to date.
But w r e aren’t out of the wood yet, how-
ever much brighter things may now
appear, and w.-d. collections continue a
necessity. But what is wanted by the
people is a clearer definition of the Com-
monwealth’s liability in connection with
war damage and a decision as to what is
going to be done with any surplus pre-
miums. Private insurance cos. have found
it practicable to rebate part of premiums
to insurers where losses have been light
enough to allow it.
* * * *
Canada’s new High Commissioner
Davis said in Sydney last week that a
single man in the Dominion earning $lOO
a month paid $35 in income tax and $8
in compulsory savings—nearly 45 p.c. of
his earnings. In Australia his case would
be expressed as earning £7 10s. a week,
but nothing like 45 p.c. would be paid
in income tax. The weekly tax deduction
here is 235. a week on £7 10s., and that
represents less than 16 p.c. A naval
vessel was being launched every three
days in Canada, and over 400 ’planes,
including Lancaster bombers, were
turned out every month. Two freighters
a week came out of the shipyards. Sugar
has been rationed, but not clothes ; the
sale of liquor has been cut. It would
appear that Canada, with its 11,000,000
people, has got down to its war job
much more expeditiously and with much
less commodity rationing, rationalisation
and red-tape than Australia because it
has rationed the spending power of wage-
earners to start with. One reason why
Australian wharf-laborers went on strike
on New Year’s Day, although offered
overtime, was because they have too
much money. *
* * * *
It is clear from the great and uninter-
rupted flow of Communistic propaganda,
plus other similar revolutionary features
evident at the present time, that the after-
war period runs a danger of being in-
tensely political. In Australia Labor has
used the country’s preoccupation with war
to exploit the work and wisdom of genera-
tions in legislation, finance, economics
and industry. Regardless of ultimate re-
actions and results, all sorts of experi-
ments, impositions and manoeuvres have
been carried out, and to begin with there
was a great play on class hatred, chief
exponent of this being Eddie Ward,
though at a later stage the Prime Minis-
ter spoke of the “Capitalist wolf” and
the “Labor lamb,” a little matter which
he apparently afterwards repented.
Whatever form a Government takes, it
cannot force a country’s industries —and
that includes its workers —to be pros-
perous. Prosperity depends on the cir-
cumstances of trade, the capabilities and
energies of the “workers,” including the
“bosses,” and the opportunities made.
Whatever political schemes are advanced
or even legislated for, whether they be
based on spite, theory or the desire of
something for nothing, prosperity always
depends on the productivity of the
individual, and theoretical schemes of a
socialistic nature will have to be remark-
ably well planned to produce better
results than a flexible system of free
enterprise regulated by supply and
demand and the credit and banking
system. Labor is trying to build
up a top-hamper of one-sided “social”
legislation, an inflated civil service that
does nothing productive, a banking and
credit system that endeavors to relieve
Labor voters of their responsibilities and
a system of compulsory unionism when
there is evidence that unionism in some
directions has already gone mad. Its
politics are based on exploitation
and envy rather than production.
A sheet-anchor for this country is
that in character the majority of
its people are essentially producers.
In the post-war period this character will
have to prevail over the mischief of poli-
ticians who live on class warfare.
* * * *
Linseed processors are the latest to feel
the monstrous hand of Dedmanism. As
anyone who knows anything about the
linseed trade is aware, linseed oil and
meal are made by one process from one
raw material, and if you have a lot of
orders for oil, to fill them you must
of necessity produce a large quantity of
meal. The market for the meal is the
rural districts; it is an excellent food
and fattener for sheep, cattle, pigs, etc.,
while most of the oil is absorbed in the
paint and munitions industries. To make
the manufacture of oil for vital war
industries economic it is necessary to sell
the meal, and publicity has always been
found necessary to jog the mind of the
man on the land in these matters. But
Mr. Dedman’s department insists that the
man on the land must not have hiis mind
jogged. Nothing must be done to further
the sales of linseed meal even though
stocks of the stuff become an embarrass-
ment and cattle lose condition. The
manufacturer must keep mum about it
all; he mustn’t even use the post to tell
the farmer the virtues of linseed meal.
The Dedman policy is , rapidly approach-
ing its obvious conclusion —utter futility.
* * * *
When, on July 1 last, the ownership
of Britain’s “coal estate” passed to the
State, there was no interference with the
mining side of it. There are more than
2000 mines in operation in Britain, and
the majority of these have been paying
royalties to landlords on each ton of coal
won. Now the Government has become
the landlord —that is as far as the
nationalisation goes. The price of the
acquisition was fixed at £66.4 million, the
basis of this being 15 years’ purchase of
the annual royalties. A loan is to be
raised to pay for the nationalisation,
and interest on this, will be met from the
proceeds of the royalties received by the
Government through its Coal Commis-
sion. The latter was set up under the
Coal Act of 1938, and consists of a chair-
man and four other members, one of
whom must have been connected with
the coalmining industry in the capacity
of wage-earner. Main reason for the
nationalisation was to secure greater
efficiency in mining operations, especially
in the matter of amalgamating some of
the 2000 mines which are too small to
be worked economically. Last week it
was announced that mechanisation of
some English mines was to be made com-
pulsory in the interest of national pro-
duction. In Australia mechanisation has
been fought strongly by miners’ unions.


THE SERVICE MAN
Break-through at Buna.
“Ek Dum”: The men who have been
through the Buna battle will have the
satisfaction of knowing that not much
worse can ever befall them. Most of
them have met Germans, some the
French African troops of Syria, and some
have chased Italians into sandstorms and
out of them.
But neither they nor any other sol-
diers have ever met a well-equipped
enemy so silent and unobtrusive, so apt
to turn up unexpectedly and so ready
for a fight at all times and places as the
Jap. About the nearest approach to him
in recent history is probably the Burmese
dacoit of the Kipling era.
Thrown out of Endaiadere, winkled
out of a hundred holes and pits, squeezed
into a compact mass, with every useful
part of his only airfield in Allied hands
on Dec. 27, he still had the spirit to try
a sort of wedge movement on the Aus-
tralians apd Americans on the airfield.
He lost, and saw dawn come in with
a wedge driven into the vitals of his own
defence. But he had done his devilish
best in face of heavy casualties, his in-
fantry supported by a type of dual-
purpose a.-a. guns of high velocity, which
he had been using as anti-tank weapons.
The enemy had naval support out at
sea from units which, for four hours
after midnight, shelled the American
position round Buna village, though with-
out damage. It was thought that the
ships were subs. —the biggest carry a
5.5 in. gun, which fires an 821 b. a.-p. shell.
The official communique described the
counter-attack as being “bloodily re-
pulsed.”
Jap Strongpost Taken
On Dec. 28, pushing from the airfield
towards the sea, the Allied troops ex-
panded their wedge westward into the
Japanese position* and by dusk had
broken into a strongpost and occupied it.
It was deadly work. There were 13
bunkers to be cleared out —miniature
forts of log, sandbag and tins of sand,
cunningly placed to cover all approaches.
Mopping up was still going on when
night fell. The Japanese were still fight-
ing savagely in the dispersal areas and
north-west generally of the western air-
strip.
The catholic collection of enemy arma-
ment was still very much in evidence. The
bag of trophies for the day included a
37mm. cannon, two 13mm. a.-a. guns and
two half-inch machine-guns, with two
3in. naval guns and an “O” fighter, left
on a strip, punch-drunk but repairable.
One weapon which gave considerable
trouble was a pom-pom quick-firer at
the western end of the airstrip, planted
to fire right down the centre of the strip.
Mortar fire failed to deal with it. Its
encirclement nearly ended in disaster,
since it was found to be protected by
well-placed m.-gs. with very efficient
crews. In the end, as attackers lay doggo
with their toes curled in, the 25
unloaded its love-tokens just in front of
them, watching bits of the Jap crews
going up, while relays of reinforcements
tried to keep the pom-pom working.
Actually, the 25’s range was only 2000
yards and the A.I.F. men were so close
to its target that a.-p. shells had to be
used, since h.-e. would probably have
blown a hole in the Allied as well as the
Japanese army. Hence, the nice shoot-
ing and long practice required before the
deadly and mobile weapon was written
off.
Doughboys on the Beach
Meanwhile, the Americans, who were
operating to the west of the A.1.F., and
just to the east of Buna Point, were
at work. The previous week in this
region one of their spearheads had driven
through to the sea beside Giropa Point,
had been cut off, and was in process of
being rescued by troops which had pushed
to within a few hundred yards.
On Tuesday night, Dec. 29, a fresh
attack was forced through to the beach,
of which the U.S. men soon held several
hundred yards, splitting the Japanese
position in two.
The westerly enemy section was
directly inland from Buna Mission and
Buna Point, wedged between the corri-
dor and the Americans on Entrance
Island and the other Allied forces at
Buna itself.
The easterly section is partly inland
from Sinemi Creek, north of which the
Allies have squeezed in behind them
along the beach from the right. The
attack along the airfield continued, and
the wedge driven after Sunday-Monday’s
Jap counter-attack was widened by the
use of Stuart tanks. The enemy now also
was faced with pressure from a third
side in the new American wedge on the
west.
Friday’s communique spoke of mop-
ping up in the corridors and of heavy
fighting on the Sanananda track, where
events had been waiting the issue at
Buna, which cleared a lot of trouble from
around the main enemy strongpoints to
the south.
Buna Point Captured
On Jan. 3 General MacArthur’s H.Q.
announced that Allied troops had occu-
pied the Buna Government station and
were now mopping up the whole area.
Giropa Point, it was added, had been
cleared of the enemy except for snipers,
who were rapidly being eliminated, so
that in the Buna area the only enemy
resistance remaining was in a small beach
pocket west of Giropa Creek, which runs
in east of the point, where the enemy
was putting up a desperate fight.
Severe casualties (the communique said)
had been inflicted on the Japanese, and
fighting was continuing in the last ex-
tensive stronghold to the west —the two-
mile-deep defence area stretching from
Cape Killerton to east of Sanananda
Point.
The attack on the Buna station began
on Friday morning with an assault in
the Giropa Point area by A.I.F. men
operating behind tanks. This took them
to the beach, along which they spread
out, clearing up the enemy posts along
the sea. Bombs, home-made for clearing
out dugouts, formed a large ingredient in
their armament.
There were none of the mistakes of
the Endaiadere tank attack when crushed
Japanese posts erupted details in the rear
which caused many casualties to the
attackers.
Before the day had ended the A.1.F.,
which had taken an hour to gain a foot-
hold on the beach, had spread along it
for 600 yards.
All round the area tanks were hunting
Japs, while infantry wiped out ground
forces and treetop snipers.
By Saturday morning Japanese resist-
ance had softened considerably. One
packet of 23 surrendered —the largest
batch taken alive since the offensive
began.
Some of the enemy tried to escape by
swimming out to sea and westward
towards the Sanananda area, but the
A.I.F. and American troops and Bostons
and Kittyhawks cleaned up most of them.
On Saturday afternoon American in-
fantry put the finishing touch to the
operations, advancing with tanks in a
smokescreen —it was the first time the
use of one was mentioned in New Guinea
fighting—from the corridor which they
had previously cut to the coast adjacent
to the A.l.F.’s later penetration and be-
tween it and Buna Point.
There was jubilation when it was all
over. The Americans had made their
first attack in the Buna area on Nov. 19.
The A.1.F., which had been fighting con-
tinuously since it began its crossing of
the range at Iroibaiwa on Sept. 28, joined
in on Dec. 18 after having cleared up
Gona.
The Sanananda pocket will not be
overcome easily. Some of the enemy’s
largest dumps are there. And there are
still more pockets along the coast
towards Morobe. But for all practical
purposes the first Allied offensive phase
of the New Guinea war is over.
The fight for New Guinea and the Bis-
marcks has, however, only just begun.
At Rabaul there are powerful enemy
forces. The Japanese are constantly es-
tablishing new bases and attempting to
extend and intensify the striking power
of others. And they are on the defen-
sive only locally. Though fighting is at
a quiescent stage, there is plenty of
evidence that the Japanese are preparing
for the largest and most widespread offen-
sive yet against the south-west Pacific.
And, as sure as the sun rises, they will
launch it, if not forestalled.
Air Operations
Everywhere Allied aircraft were
attacking communication ports whose
operations might have any bearing
on what might happen in Papua or
New Guinea. Finschhafen was bombed
on Dec. 29. Lae aerodrome was
well lit on Dec. 30 after the heavies
had done with it, and on Dec. 31
suffered a large-scale attack by fighters
and medium bombers. First 11 P3B’s
(Lockheed Lightnings) swept down on the
dozen “Os” guarding the field, smashed
up nine and damaged two and returned
to base safely with only two of their own
machines damaged. Then ground attack
forces tore up everything on the aero-
drome, destroying four bombers and an
“6.”
Medium bombers smoothed off the
rough edges by blasting ground installa-
tions. Six enemy ’planes had been caught
unprotected on the ground by a recon-
naissance party earlier and had been
wiped out.
Both Saturday’s and Sunday’s commu-
niques reported further attacks on Lae
and Salamaua with heavy bombs. Lae
is badly knocked about.
Rabaul, following the troubles which
had fallen out of the sky upon it at the
previous week-end, had a series of raids.
The first was a sunrise affair, during
which a large cruiser was directly hit
three times, left enveloped in flames and
was marked off as “probably destroyed.”
There must have been other damage, but
haze made it unobservable;
The attack was followed up on Dec.
30 with a low-level onslaught by For-
tresses, which hit two large ships in
Simpsonhafen with 5001 b. bombs, and,
at another part of the base, hit an 8000-
ton transport.
Heavy bombers at dawn on Jan. 2
made another attack on shipping in the
harbor and left vessels of 10,000, 8000
and 6000 tons enveloped in flames after
being hit by 10001 b. bombs. Two of five
intercepting enemy fighters were shot
down.
Wewak on the New Guinea north
coast and Gasmata had attention during
the week, also Madang and Buka (North
Solomons).
Kavieng (New Ireland) on Dec. 30 had
a long harassing night attack on its aero-
drome area by medium machines, which
started several large fires and came home
without loss.
On the western side the bombing of
stations in Timor and of Merauke in
Dutch New Guinea, which was attacked
twice, were focal points of the R.A.A.F.’s
operations.
"The Sparrow Force."
“Ek Dum”: Australians have known
for a long time —from Mr. Curtin in a
recent speech—that there were still A.I.F.
men fighting in Timor, and last week the
essential facts were presented by an ac-
credited correspondent, Bill Marien.
The men of the force which has kept
the flag flying in desperate circumstances
were landed in Dilli on Dec. 17, 1941.
Most of them were Westralians, the bulk
drawn from the brawn and vigor of the
goldfields, with a big share of Tas-
manians. Trained for a tough job, their
training stood them in good stead. The
Timor country is more like North Aus-
tralian country than is New Guinea.
Much of it resembles bits of Cape York.
On February 19, 1942, the Japanese
attacked Koepang and Dilli, the same
day making their heavy raid on Darwin.
At midnight on Feb. 19 the Australian
authorities lost contact with the men in
the island. They and the Dutch had
put up a gallant fight to prevent three
transports, covered by a cruiser and a
destroyer, from landing troops, and, for
six hours from 3 a.m., 20 A.I.F. men
held up half a battalion of Japs which
was trying to take the aerodrome. When
all hope was lost the runways were blown
up and the A.I.F. retired to the hills
to become, in its own parlance, “The
Sparrow Force.”
It had plenty of ammunition, though
short of most other requirements. Casual-
ties had not been heavy. Food is easy
to come by in an island in which there
are 700,000 natives. And fight was to
be had for the asking.
When there were no Japs to fight, there
were lice and fleas —anyone who has set
foot in Timor will guarantee the island
as a fleas’ paradise against any other bit
of earth this side of the Balkans.
For 59 days the exiles were out of
touch with the mainland. They were
assured by their enemy that Australia
was out of the war and its cities squashed
flat, but they had their own private war.
At length, out of bits and pieces, partly
found, partly secured in raids, they
fashioned a crazy wireless set which, it
is hoped, will be preserved for the War
Museum. For its fabrication they seem
to have used every kind of material ex-
cept their whiskers, which were growing
to the proportions of face-fungus as it
was worn in the bush when Deakin was
a boy. Then, with staggering dot and
dash, they crashed in on the ears of
a startled Darwin.
The date of the beginning of the new
era in Timor was April 19. By that
time a few more casual Australians had
walked the length of Timor from Koe-
pang to join the main body. They
arrived with malaria, wounds and other
disabilities, but also with their arms.
These were not the highly-trained men
that the Old Guard of Dilli were, but
they were soon brought up to Timor
sample, with the help of the Japs them-
selves, whom the instructors used as
guinea-pigs for demonstration purposes.
The Japs have made superhuman
efforts to clear out their visitors, have
enlisted some native tribes, have offered
rewards, but after April 19 the A.I.F.
men felt they had the thick end of the
stick.
Previously the enemy had made
several attempts to persuade them to
surrender on the plea that the war was
over and that 1100 Australian prisoners
were “enjoying life and awaiting you,
being supplied with bread, meat and
fresh vegetable.” These appeals were
welcomed —they brought the Crusoes a
much-needed supply of writing paper.
After April 19 the campaign was regu-
larised. Contact with the outside world
was established. Mails came in, medi-
cine, assistance, arms. The Sparrow
Force has now been in the wilds 10
months. R.A.A.F. pilots who have been
over Timor swear that its men are de-
veloping luxurious habits —that they hunt
Japanese in the fashion of the rajah
accompanied by a shikari and a gun-
bearer.
During the 10 months they have lost
only 27 men, though the enemy is always
just round the corner or behind the next
tree. They are still there. And many
dozens of confident Japs who believed in
March that “the war is over” are also
still there —permanently and under-
ground.
Retreat and Rain.
“Ek Dum”: “Time is on our side”
in all the belligerent capitals that has
been heard. In North Africa the weather
has been on the Axis side.
Rain held up the Eighth Army at a
point when the destruction of Rommel
might have been achieved by swifter pro-
gress on the part of the cutting-off force.
So soon as the First Army’s drive on
Tunis and Bizerta was fairly under way,
rain there, too, began to fall in sheets.
Rivers ran bankers.
However, the affair in Libya had de-
veloped into a hell-for-leather chase.
When they occupied Sirte on Christmas
Day the British armored forces scarcely
waited long enough for smoke-oh in the
ruins of the town of 16,000 people which
the retreating Axis troops had left behind.
They were in a few hours again on the
tail of the Afrikakorps, which spared
only a glance for Wadi el Kebir
and other delectable defence positions in
which amateur strategists were certain
that it was bound to make a stand.
Arrived at Wadi el Kebir, the spear-
head of the Eighth Army was only 190
miles from Tripoli. Its race through the
desert was over. From now onward it
was in well-watered, often fertile coun-
try.
But pursuers and pursued alike had
walked into further bad weather.
Meantime it was reported that the van
of Rommel’s force was racing into
Tunisia to try to join Nehring’s men in
the Lunis-Bizerta siege area.
U.S. Lockheed Lightnings slashed at a
truck convoy which looked like some of
Rommel’s between Zavian and Medenine,
80 miles inside the Tunisian border, and
destroyed 80 trucks.
The Eighth Army paused on the edge
of fertile country to regroup and to allow
the R.A.F. to organise frontal airfields.
Far to the south in Tripolitania French
forces from Lake Chad, under General
le Clerc, were driving Italian garrisons
towards the coast with the help of fairly
strong air support.
In Tunis the main battle area could
be best described as “bogged down.”
At the week-end there was some evi-
dence that Rommel’s rearguard proposed
to make a stand somewhere in the Misu-
rata region, possibly on the Wadi Zem
Zem, and that he had received reinforce-
ments. There is no indication of their
extent, but he is unlikely to abandon
Tripoli without some sort of a stand
unless his army is shattered.
There had been little more than patrol
activity on the Tunisian front until Jan.
2, when a French North African com-
munique reported the seizure of “an im-
portant point” n.-w. of Kairuan, a rail
junction and depot 80 miles south of
Tunis.
Paris Radio asserted that Axis forces
in an unspecified area in Tunisia had ad-
vanced 25 miles.
Allied raids, carried on incessantly,
have done considerable damage to Axis
ports in Tunisia, but the wet weather has
allowed the enemy’s strength to be built
up and his land forces in the Tunisian
corner are still very powerful.
Crete was raided for the first time in
daylight at the week-end and Candia


CD
am
aerodrome and Suda Bay installations
were severely battered by heavy bombers.
Sicilian ports, including Palermo, also
were attacked.
Large British and Allied sea moves
were reported on Jan. 3 by Axis radios.
They seemed to be peculiarly nervous
about the movements of a naval squadron
headed by H.M. flagship Nelson (33,500
tons, 16in. guns), and including Rodney
and other battleships and the aircraft-
carriers Formidable and Furious, which,
they said, had put out from Gibraltar,
where Lord Gort had arrived from
Malta. The first French convoy from
Dakar arrived at a Moroccan port.
Several more Axis ships were sunk or
damaged in the Tunisian area. The Ger-
mans claimed to have scored direct hits
on a cruiser and two merchantmen, and
to have severely damaged port installa-
tions at Bone.
Russia Sees 1942 Out.
“Ek Dum”: 8.8. C., A.8.C., Morley
Richards (“Daily Express”) and Moscow
correspondents who feed broadcasting
stations and newspapers with furious
fancies excelled themselves last week in
reporting the winter campaign in Russia.
They did almost everything to the enemy
short of killing, wounding and Capturing
all his legions.
True, there were discrepancies in the
narratives, though all were lurid. An ex-
cited 8.8. C, broadcast to the effect that
“the German forces before Stalingrad”
had been “completely liquidated,” with
losses of 95,000 killed and 72,400 taken,
led to a gentlemen’s disagreement be-
tween the Sydney afternoon papers. The
“Mirror” presented the 95,000 corpses
and the 72,400 captives (75,000, it said)
as the fruits of one swift and overwhelm-
ing operation (“Huge Rout at Stalin-
grad”) ; the “Sun” gave the period as six
weeks (both seem to have confused the
communique with another, issued in the
second week of December, announcing
that 94,000 Axis troops had been killed
and 72,400 taken in the Stalingrad area
between November 19 and December
11). The “Sun” protested that “22 enemy
divisions outside Stalingrad” had “still
to be liquidated” ; but over this went
the headlines “300,000 Huns in Stalingrad
Net: Escape Impossible.”
“Experts” to the Rescue
The dates are Dec. 30 and 31:
Hitler’s armies of the Don and Caucasus
see looming before them the shadow of
a Sedan. The disastrous defeat... .has lost
Hitler the great supply base of Kotelni-
kovo, along with vast stores of material,
and apparently has sealed the fate of be-
tween 100,000 and 135,000 men.... The
loss of Kotelnikovo means that Von Hoth’s
army of 100,000 [i.e., in Stalingrad] can
light it out or surrender, and the latter
course is more likely because it is well-nigh
impossible for such a large army to be
nourished for months by air.
The British United Press declares that
the German retreat to Rostov can be
described as a debacle. Only in the Middle
Don is there evidence of stiffening German
resistance.... especially before Stalingrad,
where 22 divisions [i.e., a minimum of
350.000 men] are encircled.
Reuter’s correspondent says it is reliably
estimated that 50 to 60 divisions, totalling
500.000 to 600,000 Germans, are threatened
by the Red Army sweep towards Rostov.
“Three great Red Army offensives threaten
with encirclement 55 Axis divisions [about
825.000 men],” says Morley Richards,
“Daily Express” writer. “It is clear that
Timoshenko’s plan is to encompass these
German forces in a giant ring between
Stalingrad on the Volga and Rostov, Don
River port.”
Within 24 hours of the fall of Kotel-
nikovo the Germans have lost Kamensk
(90 miles north of Rostov) and Tsymlyan-
skaya (120 miles east of Rostov). 8.8. C.
says the swiftness of the Russian advance
suggests that German resistance may be col-
lapsing.
A Moscow Review
In a review issued at the week-end
Moscow Radio announced that 22 Ger-
man divisions had been surrounded at
Stalingrad in an area 35 miles long by
20 miles wide. On the other side of the
wedge which the Russians were ramming
into them were another 28 divisions of
the enemy. In effect, the Russians drove
a narrow tunnel through 800,000 Ger-
mans, killed and took prisoner a quarter
of the enemy force and bottled up half
the remainder.
No count of wounded was given,
but throughout the Russian war wounded
have kept a steady ratio of at least two
to one killed in all casualty lists, so that
it is safe to assume that half the routed
forces were casualties.
This disaster did not prevent the
enemy’s small residue from launching
continuous fierce counter-attacks.
The Russian tunnel was at times only
40 miles or less wide, and the ground
was ideal for mobile attack. The Ger-
mans had three times as many motorised
and tank divisions on the front as they
had ever used on a similar length of line
in any of their great advances. These
were favorably disposed for simultaneous
assault on both imperfect Russian flanks.
Yet the Germans could not even check
or slow down the Russian advance or
break into its flanks, save for the driving
of one abortive wedge which was quickly
pinched out.
The country in which the battle took
place occupies only 20,000 square miles
odd of the 900,000 square miles of Russia
which Hitler and his allies hold. Save
for a few hills, the whole is bleak, open
steppe country, without mineral re-
sources and with next. to no shelter.
Much is below sea level to the south.
Yet in this area allegedly were concen-
trated 65 out of the 280 divisions which
Hitler is declared to have had on the
eastern front.
In three offensives, the first of 22 days
(Nov. 19-Dec. 11), the second of 15 days
(Dec. 16-31) and the third of 19 days (Dec.
12-31), the Red Army, according to Mos-
cow Radio’s review, wiped out a third of
this force of over a million, making
prisoners of those it did not kill. It has
trapped another third and sealed its fate,
and sent the remainder scattering like
chaff before the wind —a large but un-
specified portion of it must be wounded.
All this has been achieved in a blizzard
of snow, in a temperature sometimes
nearly 40 degrees below the freezing point
of normal lubricating and Diesel oil.
It was cabled that London military
commentators were amazed at the feat
of communication and supply which the
Russians had achieved. It was explained
that the Russians had captured supplies
sufficient for a million men, and presum-
ably also the means of transporting them.
The enemy seems to have been unusually
sparing with his minefields.
Estimates of captured material—
which include those for the central Don
front —were 542 aircraft, 2064 tanks, 4451
guns, 8161 m.-gs., 15,925 mortars, 3403
a.-t. guns, 107,850 rifles and 434 ammuni-
tion and supply dumps. Very little for
a million men —one rifle to ten men and
one gun to five square miles of the area
fought over.
On the central Don front, the claim
was made that between Dec. 16 and 30
59,000 Germans were killed and 60,050
captured—half of 15 routed divisions*
apart from wounded. And in three
sectors the Russian armies were continu-
ing to advance infforce.
Kotelnikovo
It was here remarked that it would be
matter for rejoicing if Kotelnikovo should
fall, since it lay astride the Black Sea
railway and commanded approaches
from the Don to the south across the
Kalmuck steppes. And Kotelnikovo has
fallen.
It was not “one of the great bastions of
the German east wall,” “one of the two
key bases Hitler had counted on holding
all the winter,” which he “had built up
into a great garrison and supply centre.”
It was a small market centre of a few
thousand people and apparently was not
provided with intimate defences. Any-
way, it was not stoutly defended, and,
apart from a trainload of tanks officially
mentioned, the booty was not great.
According to the “Times’s” Moscow
correspondent, the battle for it took place
on the Kalmuck steppes to the south,
Velikiye Luki’s Fate
On January 2 Moscow announced the
capture of Velikiye Luki. Daily com-
muniques had given no inkling that
major fighting was in progress there.
Velikiye Luki has been repeatedly de-
scribed as a series of vast hedgehog posi-
tions, but the Moscow report was to the
effect that it was defended by 30,000
men. This garrison, having refused to
surrender, was in a single day’s opera-
tions wiped out to the last man, with
bayonet, bomb and explosive.
Sixteen hours after the Moscow bulle-
tin was issued, the Germans denied that
Velikiye Luki had been captured. Next
day they denied it again.
Mosdok
On January 4 the recapture of Mosdok
on the Terek, west of Grozny, was an-
nounced. This was the first intimation
that the Germans had captured Mosdok.
They had made no official claim to that
effect. Before Monday the position was
believed to be that, after reaching Prokh-
ladnaya, 90 miles n.-w. of Grozny and a
few miles west of Mosdok (August 25),
the Germans had turned south along the
main road to Grozny, via Orzhonokidze,
and that all attempts to progress against
the Mosdok defences had failed. Fight-
ing “near Mosdok” was first mentioned
on Sept. 11 when the enemy forced a
bridgehead across the Terek. Though
frequent mention was afterwards made
of fighting “in the Mosdok area,” there
was none of any in Mosdok, much less
of the town’s capture.
The Retreat Analysed
The New York “Times” on Oct. 12, de-
scribing what is now the battlefield of
the Don Bend, called it “the empty gale-
swept steppe to Rostov.”
South of the Don to Astrakhan and
southward over the Kalmuck steppe, the
country is salt plain, below sea level,
much like some of the country round
Lake Eyre, Central Australia, but with
a better fresh-water supply.
The “freeze line” in Russia is Nov.
21 south of Kiev and just south of
Stalingrad.
The day-to-day communiques from
Moscow are consistent with the follow-
ing picture:
The Germans found the large bleak,
blizzard - swept open spaces between
the Volga and the Donetz, where,
according to Moscow, the temperature is
already down below 20 degrees under
zero, untenable in winter. They hung
on till the date of the “freeze” arrived
and they saw the Volga securely closed
to steamer traffic by ice for several
months to come.
Leaving a strong force to hold Stalin-
grad and give them a pied-a-terre when
the river unfroze, they began a retire-
ment. They had to have strongpoints
into which the Russians had failed to
break and come into the open. Zhukov
at once launched an offensive all along
their front.
The dozens of fierce thrusts and
counter-thrusts reported incessantly in
the communiques are more consistent
with this kind of fighting than with huge
pitched battles or encircling movements.
What the Offensive Means
And here let a tribute be paid to the
courage and endurance of the Russians
and the effectiveness of what they are
doing. It must need the hearts of lions
to attempt the task in which they are
engaged, with limited resources of food
and armament, after the crushing vicissi-
tudes which army and people have suf-
fered. And they know, none better, that
within the next three or four weeks the
worst part of the winter will clamp down
on them in the icy waste they are now
overrunning. They are killing Germans,
and it is by killing Germans that the
German war will be won.
At the same time it is no service to
game men to overrate their performances
and to foster the false idea that their
enemy is beaten. Beaten he is not.
He has been falling back on
near-at-hand bases, well stocked with
native coal, grain and minerals. The
Russians are operating over a devas-
tating, battle-stricken area hundreds
of miles wide and swept by snow
storm and blizzard. But it is impossible
to strike any balance sheet until the
prizes are in sight. These consist of
great base towns of the Donetz.
The heart of the enemy’s southern
positions is the milder Kuban oil region
along the Black Sea, over which com-
munications may be kept open during
the winter, and the great “Lugansk tri-
angle” and Donetz industrial bases, 160
to 30 miles from the points to which
his spearheads had advanced by Dec. 31.
There the enemy has coal, iron, grain,
railways and roads connected to Ger-
many, electricity, a dozen big cities of
from 150,000 to 800,000 to house his
men, port facilities. And this area he
will fight bitterly to keep —if he can.
In Defence of the Dutch.
“J a v a a n”: “Jurumudi” asks (B.
16/12 / ’42) why Dutchmen made so little
use of their 80,000,000 subjects in the
Malayan archipelago during the Japanese
invasion. He answers his question by
making one or two rather wild statements,
such as: “They [the Dutch] carried on
the old Portuguese tradition of ‘Divide
and rule,’ drawing most of their forces
from the Outer Possessions, amongst races
that are as alien to the Javanese as a Rus-
sian is to a German.” But how was an
agricultural people living in amity with the
world at large to arm, train and equip
so many millions of soldiers? Where in-
dustrialised nations like Great Britain and
America failed it is surely somewhat ex-
acting to expect an agricultural nation
to have succeeded.
“Jurumudi,” very obviously, is not
aware that the big bulk of the war
materials and equipment ordered by the
N.E.I. Government from America, paid
for in cash and not obtained on “Lend-
Lease” terms, was never delivered. He
seems equally ignorant of the fact that
the proportion of Indonesian soldiers to
Dutch Europeans in the N.E.I. standing
army was 6 to 1. As for the Indonesian
army being drawn mostly from the Outer
Possessions, 65 p.c. consisted of men
recruited in Java; of 54 companies
stationed on Java no more than eight
were drawn from the Outer Possessions.
The Indonesian militia was almost
entirely Javanese. When this force was
organised in 1941 volunteers were greatly
in excess of the number that could be
accepted and armed, as the rifles which
had been ordered from America were
diverted to Russia. This was done with
the whole-hearted assent of the N.E.I.
Government, as Russia at that time was
sorely in need of help. That the Indo-
nesian did indeed have “some cause to
fight for” is proven by a melancholy fact.
The militia divisions that took part in
the battle for Java fought to the last
man.
Operations in the Solomons continue
to be of a cleaning-up nature, and air
activity has been mainly directed against
the region round Munda, New Georgia.
Some of General MacArthurs units
attacked Buin-Faisi area on Friday night.
An enemy destroyer was left on fire
and another apparently sinking by
bombers when a Jap formation was
attacked from Guadalcanal.
* * * *
The Burma front has shared inclement
weather with most other fronts, but the
new toeholds in Arakan have been used
to launch vigorous air kicks at all parts
of the Japanese anatomy across the range.
Towns, concentrations, oil depots and
railways have all caught it hot. A num-
ber of Australians are pioneers of the
deadly Blenheim squadrons operating in
this area.
* * * *
News of a naval clash in which an
enemy cruiser was damaged and a de-
stroyer seriously hit, near Bear Island in
the Arctic, came out on Friday. Berlin
admitted the loss of a destroyer but
declared that a British destroyer had
been sunk and several cruisers and mer-
chantmen damaged. The Admiralty
announced the loss of H.M.S. Blean, a
destroyer of the Flunt class, and of the
Snapdragon (corvette).
* * * *
Last week Berlin Radio appeared more
concerned about the U-boat campaign
than about land fighting. It returned to
the subject several times and described the
sea war as “likely to prove a vital, indeed
the decisive, factor in the outcome of
the war.” It claimed 9,000,000 tons of
shipping sunk by U-boats in 1942, and
threatened that underwater operations
would “cover the whole of the seven seas
on an unprecedented scale” in 1943.
* * * *
The Admiralty reported the scuttling
of a 10,000-ton enemy merchantman in
the Atlantic. The ship was attacked by
British R.N. patrols and the crew taken
prisoner.
:}: % He
A recent U.S. sub. bag of Jap ships in
the Pacific and Far Eastern waters; One
destroyer, one 9000-ton tanker, one 8000-
ton, one 6300-ton and one 2000-ton
cargo ship sunk; one 12,000-ton cargo
ship “believed sunk” and one 6000-ton
freighter damaged,
* * * *
About 350 Australian yachtsmen (“B”
certificate men) who have entered the
R.A.N.V.R. have established a fine
record. Those over 30 were commis-
sioned at once, and the youngsters went
in as ratings. Their decorations speak
for themselves —a George Cross, six
George Medals, three D.S.Cs., an 0.8. E.,
one C.G.M. and two D.S.Ms. to date.


Divorce Notices.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES—In Divorce.
TO JACK NEIHAUS.—TAKE NOTICE that
ISABELLA NEIHAUS has filed a Petition for
Divorce No. 1479 of 1942 on the ground of
desertion without just cause or excuse for three
years and upwards If you wish to defend you
may enter an appearance at the Divorce Office
Supreme Court King Street Sydney by the
First day of March 1943 and obtain a copy
of the petition without charge from C. JOLLIE
SMITH & CO. Solicitors 185 Elizabeth Street
Sydney—(l.s.) C. K. BODY, Registrar in
Divorce.
TO HENRY GRAHAM BOHLMAN some-
times known as HENRY GEORGE BOHL-
MAN sometimes known as HARRY G. BOHL-
MAN formerly of Perth Comet Vale and Kal-
eoorlie in the State of Western Australia but
now of parts unknown. —TAKE NOTICE that
a Citation has been issued out of the Supreme
Court of Western Australia citing you to appear
and answer the petition of SARAH ANN
BOHLMAN formerly of Meekatharra in me
State of Western Australia but now of Collie
in the said State praying for dissolution of mar-
riage IN DEFAULT of your so appearing you
will not be allowed to address the Court and the
Court will proceed to hear the said petition
moved and pronounce sentence in respect
thereto AND TAKE FURTHER NOTICE that
for the purpose aforesaid you are within Forty-
five (45) days after the date of this publication
to attend in person or by your Proctor Solicitor
or Attorney, at the Central Office of our said
court at Perth and there to enter an appear-
ance in a book provided for that purpose.—
DATED the 17th day of December 1942-
(ls) G J. BOYLSON Registrar. JOSEPH
MUIR & WILLIAMS, of Victoria House, St.
George’s Terrace, Perth, Solicitors for the Peti-
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES—In Divorce.
TO BLANCHE ISABEL AITKENHEAD late
of Sydney-TAKE NOTICE that WILFRED
JAMES O’DWYER AITKENHEAD has filed
a Petition for Divorce No. 2460 of 1942 on
the ground of desertion without just cause or
excuse for three years and upwards If you
wish to defend you may enter an appearance
by the 26th February 1943 and obtain a copy
of the petition without charge from MERVYN
FTNI AY Solicitor Newlands House 141 Eliza-
beth Street Sydney.-(L.s.) C. K. BODY. Regis-
trar in Divorce.
SPORTING NOTIONS
(Conducted by "PILOT")
Yaralla, third in the last Epsom with
9.6, is not overdone with an additional
21b. in the Carrington Stakes, and at his
best would probably be a popular selec-
tion, Since he resumed work after a holi-
day he has done several smart gallops
over short distances, and has demon-
strated that his pace is as great as ever,
but he may not be considered sufficiently
forward for such a hard race as the Car-
rington is likely to prove, and is said to
be a doubtful runner. Gold Salute, a
Cantala Stakes winner with 9.0, is nicely
weighted, but his latest form has been
disappointing, and recent three-year-old
winners in Riverton and Bangster are
preferable. Riverton has 101 b. more than
when he won the Villiers, but other three-
year-olds have run well in the Carrington,
and 8.6 —exactly weight-for-age—may
not prove too much for Riverton. Yaralla
ran third with 9.0 last year.
The Miller has only 31b. more than
when he won last year’s Carrington, but
may now need a longer trip than six fur-
longs. Hesione is working well, but the
fact of not having raced for some time
may tell against her. On Chisholm Han-
dicap form Soho and John Halifax have
equal chances, the latter meeting the
former only a pound worse. Grand
Prodige is sure to find backing, but
though Hydra was disappointing at his
last start he enters into calculations with
a pound less than when second to
Freckles in the Camden Handicap. Should
he repeat that form he will be one of
the hardest to beat.
Dashing Cavalier has 41b. more in Tat-
tersall’s Cup than when he failed in the
Summer Cup, and, even if favored by
firm going, the additional poundage may
be too much for him. Rimveil, though
dropped 21b., is not attractive. Mildura
has won at a mile and a half, but though
nicely weighted, he has been scratched.
Dewar gave an indifferent showing in the
Summer Cup, as did Grand Fils, who
was unsuited by the going. As we con-
tinue to get a fair amount of rain it is
no certainty he will be any better off in
that respect this time.
Lambeth, up 51b. for his second to
Amberspear, will meet the latter 51b.
better, and that may be sufficient to en-
able him to turn the tables, though the
furlong less may favor the latter. The
distance, more than the weight, may
trouble Nightbeam, who has not yet won
beyond nine furlongs, but, if Modulation
has staying pretensions, 7.5 —91b. less
than weight-for-age—should give him a
chance. However, Tidemark on the same
mark may be preferable. A winner at a
mile and a quarter with 9.5 in fair time,
he is a good-winded horse, is well and,
though he has not been doing an ortho-
dox distance preparation, should not find
a mile and a half beyond his compass.
Lightly-weighted horses in Enderby,
Wellesley and War Trophy include a
place possibility, but if Angus repeated
his Metropolitan and track form 6.11
would give him a pull over that trio. On
recent form Tidemark and Lambeth may
be best worth backing.
* * * *
At times all jockeys ride ill-judged
races, and last week A. Knox was
adjudged guilty by the stipendiary
stewards of doing so when Amberspear
with 7.9 could not get near the front at
any part of the Rosehill December Han-
dicap on December 12. With 7.5 he led
throughout the Summer Cup. The find-
ing disposed of what might have proved
an awkward situation.
if * * *
Since the Reception-Millais inci-
dent at the start of the Standish Handi-
cap, various suggestions have been made
for the easier detection of jockeys who
take up wrong barrier positions. Some
critics advocate that jockeys wear arm-
bands denoting their barrier positions,
others that numbered discs be attached
to a barrier strand. It is considered un-
likely, however, that the V.R.C. com-
mittee will adopt either suggestion. Most
racing officials are of opinion that a term
of suspension in the event of detection is
the best deterrent to would-be offenders.
A fine means nothing if the taking up of
a wrong position assists in the success of
a heavily-backed horse, but a rider would
think twice if he knew it might deprive
him of his livelihood for a couple of
months.
Melbourne Cup winner Colonus will be
missing from the autumn meetings. He
is not a big horse, and his owner intends
to give him every chance to recover from
a strenuous spring campaign. It may be
a wise procedure, as the subsequent form
of several Melbourne Cup winners has
fallen considerably below expectations.
Skipton mqy not come under the heading
of Melbourne Cup “hoodoo” victims,
but the fact remains he has won only one
race since his Cup triumph 14 months
ago. He, too, will miss the autumn meet-
ing. Colonus is likely to resume racing
during the winter, when soft tracks will
be to his liking, and, all going well, will
make another attempt on the Melbourne
Cup next spring.
Reception, an aged gelding, but the
most improved sprinter in Melbourne,
is having a brief spell before being trained
for rich autumn sprints. He will receive
a substantial handicap in the Newmarket,
but is a massive horse, and his trainer
does not consider that weight will trouble
him unduly. It is probable also that Re-
ception will be a runner for the Futurity
Stakes. He was not among the original
entrants for that race, but intentions are
to make him a late nomination. Burrabil,
aged winner of the corresponding race
last year, was a late entrant at a fee of
£3O and a total starting fee of £5O, Re-
ception has not won beyond six furlongs
in Melbourne, but brilliant horses in-
variably are hard to defeat over seven
furlongs under welter weights, and the
Futurity Stakes can be likened occasion-
ally to a glorified welter.
Tranquil Star, Caulfield Cup winner
and outstanding spring w.f.a. performer
in Melbourne, is in work again for
autumn racing. She looks well, and it
seems only a matter of retention of form
for a continuation of her w.f.a. triumphs.
Unfortunately for her connections, there
may be only two races of this class for
Tranquil Star, who will receive her full
share of weight in any handicap for which
she is entered. The Futurity Stakes prob-
ably will be included in her programme,
but her opportunities will be limited.
Connections would welcome an oppor-
tunity to race her in Sydney, but there
would have to be a relaxation of present
transport restrictions for that to be pos-
sible.
Victoria Derby winner Great Britain
was knocked out by his hard spring cam-
paign, and his trainer doubted whether
the short interval before the autumn car-
nival would afford him sufficient time to
recover. Great Britain, however, has
picked up well, and there is every chance
now that he will be a runner for the
V.R.C. St. Leger. If in the same form as
on Derby Day he probably would make
short work of his opponents.
■ • • •
Last season 300 yearlings were cata-
logued for W. Inglis and Son’s Randwick
sales. This year the total will be nearly
the same, though it is probable the auc-
tioneers could sell more. Wellington
(Maoriland) and Melbourne horse
sales should give N.S.W. breeders an
idea of the prices they are likely to get
this season.
* * * *
Last week the chairman of the A.J.C.
stipendiary stewards stated that there was
a decrease in the volume of betting on
Sydney courses. He is in a position to
speak with authority, but any decrease is
probably due to heavy “nod” bettors
having drawn in their horns. Although
the individual amounts of many punters
may not be large it is improbable there
was ever more money for cash betting on
our racecourses than at present.
Totalisator betting upholds this conten-
tion. At Randwick last season there
were 14 days up to and inclusive of
Boxing Day, The turnover was £612,767.
During the same period this season there
were nine days at headquarters, and
£638,896 went through the machines.
Two of the days lost at Randwick were
at the spring meeting. The figures given
indicate there is no austerity on the part
of smaller bettors, even though those who
wagered heavily in the past now deem it
advisable to go slow. Attendances have
increased, but not in the same ratio as
totalisator betting.
* » » *
Kindergarten is an exceptionally good
horse, but it is doubtful whether the
standard of stayers in Maoriland is as
high as in many previous years. This idea is
upheld by the rating of Gladynev in handi-
caps. Subsequent to the New Zealand Cup,
in which he was second with 8.12, he was
weighted at 9.5 for the Manawatu Cup,
1} mile, next tb him being Battledress
9.1. For the last Caulfield Cup Battle-
dress was allotted 9.5 and Gladynev 8.7.
Apart from his second in the Caulfield
Cup with 6.7 as a four-year-old, Glady-
nev’s best effort in Australia was his
second with 7.10 in the Hotham Handi-
cap, and though he may have improved
since then it is difficult to believe he has
done so to the extent implied by the
weights he receives.
* * * *
In last week’s issue, in touching upon
the fact that the hdrses trained last year
by W. R. Jarvis for King George were
being transferred to Capt. Boyd-Rochfort,
I referred to the former as the trainer of
Sun Chariot and Big Game. F. Darling
prepared both, and this season will train
quite a large team for the King. Big
Game, however, has gone to the stud,
and, according to English exchanges, it
is possible that Sun Chariot has also
finished her racing career.
* * * *
As the reversion to the sweepstakes
system will mean a loss of several thou-
sands annually to the A.J.C. it should be
satisfactory to owners that the added
money for the Doncaster Handicap
(£2000) and Sydney Cup (£5000) com-
pares more than favorably with that for
the Newmarket Handicap (£2000) and
Australian Cup (£3000). The V.R.C.
still benefits from entrance and accept-
ance fees, and if, as provided for by the
conditions, the A.J.C. should find it
necessary to reduce the value of its
races, the sweepstakes will make a good
consolation prize for owners, and leave
them with little cause for fault-finding.
* * * *
The New Zealand Cup meeting proved
the eight-year-old Lord Nuffield a sprinter
out of the ordinary. On the opening day
he successfully carried topweight, 9.6, in
a field of 15 in the Stewards’ Handicap,
of £B5O, running the six furlongs in 1.11.
He was an outsider, being eleventh in
demand for a win and place on the totali-
sator. On the concluding day he com-
fortably won the seven-furlongs Members’
Handicap with 10st., the minimum being
7st, and he started at a comparatively
liberal price. The track was holding, and
the time was comparatively much slower
than in the Stewards’ Handicap.
* * * *
Though it is contended by many
people that “there is nothing in time,”
the following Australian records will be
of interest in this country as well as else-
where :
Five furlongs.—All Love, 58-}, Randwick
(8.5) and Flemington (8.7).
Six furlongs. —Aurie’s Star, 10.2, I.B},
Flemington.
Seven furlongs.—Freckles, 8.4, 1.22, Rand-
wick.
One mile. —Amiable, 8.12, 1.34}, Rand-
wick.
Mine furlongs.—Fuji San, 9.11, 1.49},
Ascot (Brisbane).
Mile and a quarter. —Beau Vite, 9.4, 2.1},
Randwick.
Eleven furlongs.—Burlesque, 7.10, 2.15},
Caulfield.
Mile and a half.—Palfresco, 7.1, 2.27},
Caulfield.
Mile and five furlongs.—Dashing Cavalier,
9.0, 2.41}, Randwick.
Mile and three-quarters.—Young Crusader,
8.4, 2.55, Randwick,
Two miles. —Spear Chief, 9.7, 2.19}, Ascot
(Brisbane).
Two and a quarter miles. —Marauder, 7.4,
2.47}, Flemington. .
Randwick record for two miles is Lucra-
tive’s 3.20}, with 8.2, and Flemmg-
ton’s best is 3.21} by Wotan (7.11).
* * * *
The English Jockey Club has made fur-
ther restrictions in connection with horses
eligible to compete in races of any kind
this year. It was decided in October that
horses not qualified to be entered
for any race were four-year-olds and
upwards that had not been in train-
ing with a licensed trainer in 1942.
Six-year-olds which have not won
since they were two years old are
also barred from being entered for any-
thing. The Government’s decision to ban
racing under National Hunt (jumping)
rules has caused a lot of discontent. The
season commences in Nov'ember and ends
in March, and in the past has given
smaller owners and trainers the oppor-
tunity of making expenses for the year.
They are certainly not unreasonable in
contending that it is unfair they should
be completely wiped out, while flat-racing
will not be affected to much greater ex-
tent this year than last.
* * * •
In Melbourne recently one hotel
license was refused because of police
allegations that starting-price betting took
place on the premises. Similar action in
Sydney would deal severely with s.p. bet-
ting, though, as usual, we would probably
hear about the interference to which the
“poor man” —if he still exists in these
days of munition works and Government
jobs—was subjected. If the P.M.G.’s
department co-operated with the police,
and ruling racing bodies took a firm
stand, starting-price betting would soon
be reduced to a minimum everywhere.
* * * *
Bombay has its classics. They are for
Indian-bred four-year-olds and entries for
those to be run in 1944 closed in August.
Prize-money is substantial, that for
the Derby totalling R 5.54,000; St. Leger,
R 5.45,000 ; Oaks, R 5.28,000 ; One Thou-
sand Guineas, R 5.25,000 ; and Two Thou-
sand Guineas, R 5.28,000. Apart from the
amounts mentioned, there is a substantial
premium for the breeder of each winner,
that for the Derby being R 5.4000. The
cost of starting for the Derby is R 5.550.
* * * *
Last year was productive of some first-
class two-year-olds in America. The
greatest winner of that age was Occupa-
tion (Bull Dog-Miss Bunting), whose
record for 12 starts was nine firsts, two
seconds and $189,855 (about £A57,745).
A brilliant two-year-old miler came to
light in a colt named Count Fleet, who
at Belmont Park ran a mile with 8.7 in
1.34|, which was a track record, and only
two-fifths of a second worse than Equi-
poise’s American record. He was a $4500
(about £A1369) yearling, and in 12 starts
up to Oct. 17 —equivalent to May in Aus-
tralia—had won seven races, run second
in four and third in one.
* * * *
At the beginning of August France’s
principal racecourses, Longchamp, Mai-
sons-Laffitte, Auteuil and Le Tremblay
were in full swing, and on some Sundays
thirty million francs passed through the
totalisator. However, uncertainty as to
the value of the franc makes it difficult
to say what that amount actually repre-
sents.
Jack McNamee, 161 b. lighter than Joe
Delaney, proved much the better fighter
and boxer at Sydney Stadium. His swift
and accurate punches at long range gave
him an early lead, which Delaney, though
willing enough, could never overtake.
At Newcastle, Narvo, the footballer-
pug, was knocked out in the third round
by Alabama Kid.
FOR RANDWICK.
( Before acceptances .)
By “P ILOI."
Denman Handicap: Lord Cullen,
1 ; Lady Hamilton, 2; Condig-
nity, 3.
Two-year-old Handicap: Mores-
by or Belle Pomme, 1 ; Alcestis, 2;
War Eagle, 3. •
Three-year-old Handicap: Hawk-
let, 1 ; Brinawa, 2 ; Young Valais, 3.
Carrington Stakes: Hydra, 1;
Riverton, 2 ; Bangster, 3.
Tattersall’s Club Cup: Tidemark,
1; Lambeth, 2; Amberspear or
Angus, 3.
Trial Stakes: Wellesley, 1 ;
Adjust, 2 ; Kiaree, 3.
Alfred Hill Handicap; Easter
Time, 1 ; Gallop, 2; Ron Rico or
Whisper Low, 3. '


Women's Letters
From Melbourne
There was a decided urge to go gayer
than usual this New Year’s Eve because
the feeling that this generation is “living
history” makes people anxious to put a
personal stamp on events and all want
to have a few bright things to tell their
grandchildren about the good old days.
Predominant thought in every mind once
midnight had struck and all had said
“Here’s to 1943” was “When does the
last tram go?” answered too often, alas!
by the sound of that tram bounding off
into the distance. Every corner had its
knot of belated tram-catchers discussing
the relative advantages of walking home
or awaiting the arrival of the rather nebu-
lous “all-nighter” round about 3 a.m.
Unescorted ladies returning from parties
and the like picked one another out with
“You look my kind of person ; let’s walk
home together.” The all-night hooter,
when it did show up, looked like a hive
of swarming bees.
Among the few real New Year’s Eve
gatherings of old friends was that at Mrs.
Russell Jackson’s, where, although the
usual big gathering was not possible
owing to motoring restrictions, many of
the art and literary groups dropped off
the tram to wish one of Melbourne's
kindest-hearted hostesses the best for
1943. Most of these folk are now hard
at work on war projects and don’t usually
go junketing at night, but they made an
exception of the last night of the year
and felt the better for it. The same sort
of thing was happening everywhere.
Just o]d friends and a few youngsters, the
boys on a few days’ leave from the front,
the girls taking an evening off to keep
them company at a film and supper. The
greeting “Happy New Year” was con-
spicuously absent. In its place people
said “Let’s hope.”
The Fighting French, who kept their
spirits well up when things looked
blackest, showed a lot of extra cheerful-
ness at their New Year’s Eve appoint-
ment to drink sherry with officers
at Scott’s. They also gave a party for
rankers on New Year’s night. Actually,
though as a race we are not linguistically
distinguished, there are quite a few among
us who can parlez vous, and at both
French parties there was little English
to be heard. Consular representatives
of China, always to the fore at these
functions, are rapidly acquiring a repu-
tation for being pleasant conversational-
ists.
The law of averages should have made
it impossible for an open-air Concert to
fail twice on account of rain, but even
such a date as January 2 and such a
place as Kooyong tennis stadium couldn’t
dislodge the hoodoo on this city’s out-
door performances. The first half of
the alfresco orchestrations had been
heard, trains, trams and motor-horns per-
mitting, from under the rotunda, whither
the band had been driven by a cyclonic
wind which ripped the tarpaulin off their
roofed stand, but the rain drove every
one of the audience under cover at the
interval and then the concert was declared
off.
Land girls are winning laurels. The
scene of their latest triumph is the Werri-
bee farm, where their achievements were
a surprise to men whose idea of land
girls had been gleaned from press photo-
graphs of curled and scented misses in
smartly-tailored jodhpurs, waving pitch-
forks at the man with the camera. The
girls at Werribee rise with the dawn or
a shade before it, and half their day’s
work is done before breakfast at nine
o clock. A good deal of the opposition
to the land girl came from women who
lived m the country and didn’t believe
that town girls could measure up to the
requirements of life on the farm. These
objectors are revising their opinions,
The proclamation of kindergarten
teaching as a reserved occupation was not
unexpected, nor was it a minute too
soon, for already many trained kinder-
garteners have deserted their chosen
career for war work. Salaries have been
improved, and the reservation should
begin to show results at the end of 1943,
wiren a new batch of trained kindergar-
work S Wl come out and all will go to
The vacation period brings its usual
crop ot summer schools. Parents are
a ways surprised to see their young who
nave crept unwillingly to school through-
°U Ju ye . ar P°P off to one of these
ha PPUy. Older folk, too, find these
„„ Peasant Mostly this year they
Ve r y young, at school or just
ng it, as they’re the only people who
nave many spare moments. Tay
Creggan, Melbourne house of the Grail
Sisters, with its delightful riverside
gardens, will be scene of one for girls
starting on January 9. Unusual feature
will be visits to factories to study work-
ing conditions and the teaching of handi-
crafts.
Greetings from an absent friend now
in Oxford, England, came, just on the
tick of Christmas, to the many Mel-
bourne chums of Louise Hanson (Louise
Dyer that was). The majority of her
friends date back to the days when she
was Louise Smith, sister of Harold and
Louis, and one of this city’s best amateur
musicians. Times have changed for many
of her then acquaintances, but they still
think of her as one of the best. Mrs.
Hanson visited ‘Melbourne last when
brother Harold was Lud Mayor. Now
the family is a scattered one. Mrs.
Hanson, whose husband, a Victorian, is
an Oxford don, has not seen her old
haunts, Paris and Spain, for a long time.
National Theatre Movement enthusi-
asts are hoping to swell the collection on
behalf of the nurses in a big way by their
production of “The Lady with the
Lamp” in February. The play covers
the life of Florence Nightingale from
the age of 27 well up into the eighties,
with a spot of historically authenticated
romance thrown in. Play is by Reginald
Barclay and the cast is very pleased with
it. Playing the heroine is Shirley Fosdick,
pictured here by Ronald Esler. She has
had plenty of acting experience, and has
been at Gertrude Johnston’s right hand
in the job of getting the National Theatre
Movement on its feet. Just now she is
doing a round of camps with “Rookery
Nook.”
So many women are working in muni-
tion jobs requiring mechanical and
mathematical skill that news that Mel-
bourne University had given a sheepskin
to its first woman engineering graduate
didn’t cause even a flutter of surprise.
But congratulations to Diane Lemaire,
who has survived a very tough course,
have been keeping her telephone busy.
Man-power authorities considered a post-
grad. course of mechanical engineering
would be her most useful occupation at
present, so the University will see her
back this year. Miss Lemaire is a
daughter of Brigadier L. H. Lemaire.
Brother Jim, also with the forces, is a_
law graduate. The family is of Huguenot
extraction.
Sights in Melbourne streets that no
longer seem strange are the contraptions
by which women carry home their shop-
ping parcels and girls in slacks and
shorts escorting warriors armed to the
teeth, with tin helmet over shoulder and
kitbags as full as they can be crammed.
But the wicker baskets in which domestic
pets have to be carried, since there is no
one at home to mind them, do win a curi-
ous glance. A woman carrying a peke in a
rope bag is not uncommon, but the lady
who carried her pet canary in a flower-
pot covered with fine gold gauze inter-
ested all Collins-street.
From Sydney
Lady Wakehurst went across from
Sutton Forest on Saturday to open the
new Red Cross Home at Bowral. The
house, named Berida, is in spreading
gardens, and was formerly the home of
Dr. Jessie Freeman. The doctor gener-
ously gave it to the Red Cross, and Mrs.
Gertrude Schofield gave the £5OOO which
made the new wing possible. Mrs.
Anthony Hordern, one of the speakers at
Saturday’s ceremony, is the president of
the Berida women’s auxiliary, which pro-
vided nearly all the furnishings of the
home. So far all the convalescents at
the home have been service women, and
on Saturday they, with V.As. and Red
Cross Aids, were inspected by the Gov-
ernor’s wife. Chairman of the N.S.W.
Red Cross Wilfrid Johnson, the Mayor
of Bowral, E. Boardman, and Mrs.
R. P. Lawrence (whose sister, Mrs. Wil-
shire, was one of the newly-arrived group
of Australians who had been released
from German internment camps) were
present.
To no splendid and crashing chord,
but to the threnody of falling rain,
1943 made entrance to this world.
Sydney turned to its new calendar with
a subdued air. Roystering there was
none ; drunks were few and far between ;
the suburbs went to bed early, and
King’s Cross received the New Year in
a manner that can be described as
genteel. One policeman even used the
word “sombre.” And yet, never since
the war began, has hope pulsed so high
in the city’s heart —hope of victory, hope
of loved ones returning, hope of peace!
But Australia has grown wary of the
future. No longer is there a rush to em-
brace the New Year as a boon com-
panion. According to those in place and
power he is ordained a sober and austere
fellow who offers skirts that are practi-
cally kilts for women, and a glass of
cold water for men. Still here 1943 is,
and here it will stay. Let Australia make
the best of it.
Canada’s new High Commissioner in
Australia and his fair-haired wife are
going to be popular. He is Mr. Justice
T. C. Davis, and he comes to Australia
by way of Ottawa and Saskatchewan.
In Ottawa he was Judge in the Court
of Appeals. The just-arrived High Com-
missioner succeeds Major-General V. W.
Odium, who has been appointed Canada’s
first Minister to China. The Davis
couple will make their home in the
almost ambassadorial atmosphere of Can-
berra. Mrs. Davis looks forward to
taking up Red Cross work as soon as
she is dug in. Of particular interest to
women here is the news that so far
clothes in Canada are coupon-free.
All Australia remembers international
footballer Dr. H. B. Oxenham. Here is
his daughter Anne, who is helping to
keep the ball moving in the strenuous
test Australia is now engaged in. Anne
is one of the young C.U.S.A. V.As., and
is a regular helper at Lewisham. Also
her smile brightens the Naval Gunnery
Canteen. The C.U.S.A. tearooms in
Bridge-street run all the smoother for
her deft hands. Norton Trevaire photo-
graph.
Quite a good idea is that of sending
Christmas and New Year greetings on
reproductions of the pictures in the
National Art Gallery. These can be had
at the Gallery in postcard or larger size
(the postcard size is the easier to mail).
The fashion should please the austere and
the artistic, for the cards are quite cheap.
After the war the Gallery might even do
a thriving trade in postcards reproducing
famous works in European and Ameri-
can galleries.
When the whisper ran around that
Darling Pointers tired of dragging home
meat from the butcher’s, potatoes,
cabbages and such were planning a sort
of communal delivery a shudder
of horror ran through the really exclu-
sive. Had things come to such a pass
that the stately matrons of that expensive
suburb might be seen, turn and turn
about, delivering parcels at one another’s
gates? But it turned out that the scheme
was not of that sort. The Pointers plan
to turn themselves into a co-operative
company, secure a vehicle and, if pos-
sible, someone to drive it, then ring up
and leave instructions where the parcels
are waiting to be collected.
If they can arrange no swifter service
a horse-drawn cart will serve the purpose.
Those practical women Mrs. Bertie
Kelly, Mrs. Jessie Street and the Halse
Rogers lady had the idea, called a pre-
liminary meeting at St. Mark’s Hall, Dar-
ling Point, and launched their scheme.
Shares in Co-operative Deliveries are ss.
each, and one share entitles its owner to
membership and the enjoyment of the
amenities. Of course, co-operative de-
liveries aren’t a novel thought. The plan
in a limited way has been in vogue in
suburbs where housewives bring home
their own and neighbors’ packages in
baby’s pram.
When Dorothy Wilby gets back to Syd-
ney after the recruiting campaign on
which she is setting out she will know a
great deal about the country towns and
districts of the State. Also, she hopes
she will have gained 6000 voluntary aids
for the army. The idea is to secure girls
who are now V.As. to switch over to
the A.A.M.W.S. for service in military
hospitals. Dorothy will make a tour of
inspection of detachments throughout
N. S. Wales —the work she did so suc-
cessfully in forming radio clubs in Vic-
toria should be helpful in this connection.
Her official titles are Deputy Assistant
State Controller of V.A.Ds., State Re-
cruiting Officer and Secretary of V.A.Ds.
at Red Cross House. In the last-named
office she will carry on the work of
capable Da Silva Waugh, who died a
few weeks ago.
Nowhere was the New Year welcomed
more gaily than at the Australian and
Allied Soldiers’ Club at 44 Macleay-
street. This onetime noted guest-house
every week-end can and does house 230
to 240 lads in the services. Army, Navy
or Air Force, officer and private find
their way to this popular spot, where
there is an air of homely comfort. On
the last night of 1942 cream candles in
cream sticks tied with red and silver
bows were lighted up to show the little
year its way into this world of ours. There
was dancing. Muriel Wilson sang. A
dark-haired lad with bread in his hand
was the first footer. There were Father
Time and other seasonal, visitors. The
club, incidentally, is run by a skeleton
staff, has a roster of 300 voluntary
helpers, but can always do with more.
After it has run its distinguished course
in Melbourne from January 26 to
February 6, the All-Australian Exhibi-
tion of Art will be seen in Sydney. Later
it will go to the other capital cities. The
Red Cross will benefit, and the pictures
shown will be the creation of painters in
the services and engaged on essential war
work. N.S.W. and Queensland artists
must have their entries at the Red Cross
Society’s rooms in Bull’s Chambers, 28
Martin-place, by January 10, in good
time for their dispatch to Melbourne.
March 1, 1943, is the deadline for the
Sydney exhibition. To give point to this
show it is preferable that works should
depict the war scene or aspects of mili-
tary life, but still-life, non-military land-
scape or portraiture will not find the door
closed against it. Because of difficulties
in the matter of framing, pictures will be
accepted and exhibited frameless.
Nina Moyes, eldest daughter of James
Edmond, of The Bulletin, and wife
of Lieut.-Colonel A. C. Moyes (between
wars a member of the Bulletin editorial
staff) passed away at Christmas-time.
Mrs. Moyes had suffered since girl-
hood from a painful rheumatic con-
dition, but during all her ill-health man-
aged to preserve a touch of that humor
for which her father was famed. Only
son, Captain Geoffrey Moyes, is with
the A.I.F.
Another attractive bunch of Ameri-
can girls have arrived in Australia to
help the work of their country’s Red
Cross in the South Pacific. They come
from Florida, North Carolina, California,
Connecticut and Pennsylvania. They will
be in U.S. hospitals as medical social
workers, some will be club workers, and
one will be a hospital secretary. Betty
Strong, the girl from Pennsylvania, was
for a year private secretary to conductor
Leo Stokowski while he was forming the
first All-American Youth Orchestra.
Others of the group are in peace-time
masters of social science, schoolteachers
and secretaries.
Agnes Mowle, treasurer of the Society
of Women Writers, had a surprise the
other day. This was a jolt on the right
side of the ledger. Mrs. A. T. Anderson,
who with her committee had run a
garden fair for prisoners of war in
her Turramurra garden, had as special
attraction a show of Treania Smith’s
paintings. Entrance money from this was
earmarked for the friendly fund of the
S.W.W. The sum of £5O was netted by
art, and the cheque was handed to Miss
Mowle at a committee lunch in the
Queen’s Club. Agnes, by the way, seems
to be a direct descendant of the widow
in the Bible whose cruse never ran dry.
No matter what claim is made on the
society’s funds she can always squeeze
out the required guinea or two.


tyotcT&Heaw/
YOUR
W 1
mmm
INSURANCE
FOB 1943 ?
Protection of your furniture, car, personal effects, etc.,
under 1942 War Damage Certificate ended on Dec. 31. If
you have not renewed your certificate, your movable pro-
perty is without cover. The compulsory cover on your house
or fixed property does not include personal effects and
chattels . . . nor does any other policy. Return that renewal
notice to your insurance company accompanied the
amount of the premium. Send it by post or take it in
person! But do it now! If your personal effects and chattels
were not covered in 1942 go to your Insurance Office without
delay and take out a War Damage Certificate for 1943.
Post or take your
RENEWAL NOTICE
to your own
INSURANCE OFFICE
HYGEIA Dissol venator
THIS SELF-CONTAINED SANITARY SYSTEM
PROVIDES THE SAFETY AND COMFORT OF A
SEPTIC TANK WITHOUT ANY WATER SUPPLY.
NO SMELL, NO FLIES, NO GERMS.
Approved by the Board of Health.
No emptying or other unpleasant
jobs. All matter is turned into a
sterile solution which automatically
runs off. Over 2200 in use.
Health Comfort Economy.
Write for Illustrated Pamphlet.
£l7/17/6 f.o.r. Sydney, including Sales Tax, plus
25/- war surcharge. Crating, if necessary, 10/9 extra.
HYGEIA SANITARY CO. PTY., LTD.,
30 BRIDGE ST., SYDNEY. 81052. OR LEADING STORES.
imitmi
Fully guaranteed
as to longevity,
efficiency and
mechanism.
It is not just a
modified closet
pan.
It displaces pans
and saves sanitary
rates.
The sterile solu-
tion soaks away
in the under-
ground sump.
Can be used where
septic tanks are
not practicable.
ANY HANDY-
MAN CAN IN-
STAL IT.
SMOKE-OH!
“Lost, Half Pomeranian Dog.”
— Advt. in subunt>an rag.
Answers to the name of Fi
-I* *
“Requests for permission to remove coats will
be made by an Executive member of either
Branch of the A.T. and M.O.E. Association to
the Depot Master or Chargeman on duty.
“The Officer receiving the request will advise
the Chief Clerk (Auto. X 721) during office hours
and the Chief Inspector (Auto. 3278) at other
times, who will obtain from the Weather
Bureau (telephone BW 1791-2) the dry and wet
bulb readings, and then ring the Chief Traffic
Manager and obtain his decision in connection
with the request.
“The Chief Clerk or the Chief Inspector will
advise the Tramway Traffic Superintendent, the
Omnibus Traffic Superintendent, the Omnibus
Senior Inspector and all Depots on occasions
that the requests are granted.”
— N.S.W. Tramway Regulations.
By that time the southerly buster will
just about be blowing itself out.
Gnats!
“Insects’ Heartbeats Can Now Be'Recorded.”
—“Daily Mirror.”
The idea is by no means new. Long
ago my uncle succeeded in establishing
that a bar fly’s heart beats three times
faster when the creature is confronted
with a schooner than with a middy or a
glass.
My avuncular relative’s untimely demise
robbed the scientific world of one of its
most distinguished entomologists. Pass-
ing a dance hall one night he noticed a
particularly fine specimen of a jitterbug
(order deenerhoptera) performing its
frenzied contortions, and immediately
conceived the idea of recording its heart-
beats. But trying to separate the chosen
jitterbug from its companions he got too
close, and a kick from the leaping, writh-
ing creature caught him under the chin
and broke his neck.
Cal.
•I* ❖ ❖
“Man tried to steal conductor’s cash.”
—“Dahy Mirror.”
He was a bad penny right enough, but
from force of habit the conductor bagged
him.
“Well, you come down ’ere an let me go up there."
“Don’t leave your neck out when you are
powdering.”— Woman’s paper.
But you may puff out your cheeks.
4. 4. 4*
“Grandmothers pick cotton.” —News item.
But granddaughters choose silk.
4* .
“Men up to 85 return to work in Sydney.
The Boys of the Old Brigade.
4* *l* 4* M
“Flying motor-car predicted after the war.
—News item.
The flying pedestrian will be thankful.
♦l* ►!* -I* 4*
“War jobs for U.S. convicts.”— News item.
They’re quite prepared to make experi-
mental flights.
4* 4* 4* 4*
“Commercial Travellers Going Into Army.”
— Heading.
So thev’re still taking marching orders!
God Bless Our Home.
“There is a war-time shortage of accommo-
dation in Sydney.”
Come, keep your pecker up, my dear,
These are but minor ills of war;
It is so quaint to live austere.
Encamped upon a kitchen floor.
Why, poor old granddad never grumbles
At any hours he has to keep,
And only whimpers when he tumbles,
Say, off the table in his sleep.
Let’s smile, though walls and ceiling leak;
Things might be worse ; in fact, I think
When Auntie comes to stay next week
We’ll both be sleeping in the sink !
P. M. L.
The True Festive Spirit.
“Well, I’m glad it’s all over and we
can call our home our own,” said Maria
with a sigh of relief. “Christmas! People
tramping in and out of your house, up-
setting everything.”
“Well, when I suggested a quiet, aus-
terity Christmas” I began.
“That was only your meanness. Be-
sides, you wanted to go fishing,” snapped
Maria. “Well, that Ada is gone, and
those awful brats of hers with her. I
told her what I thought of her, forcing
her family on us for a holiday, before
she went.”
“But you asked her to come! ” I said.
“Well, was I to know she would behave
like she did? As if she expected to be
waited on; and those terrible children
did just as they liked. Well, after what
I said to her I don’t suppose she’ll ever
want to speak to me again. A lot I
care! ”
“It’s a pity you quarrelled with Mrs.
Snoodge, though.”
“Oh, is it? Do you think I was going
to have her making a convenience of
bringing round people like those Phil-
potts probably because she’d run out of
liquor! And your Uncle Joe needn’t
think he can come dropping in for Christ-
mas dinner just when he likes, either.
Fancy, and all he could give me was a
miserable box of handkerchiefs, too!”
“We should have had a quiet Chlist-
mas just to ourselves,” I said.
“Not at all. That’s a selfish view,”
proclaimed Maria. “What’s Christmas
for but to bring people together and
establish good-fellowship between them?”
H. M.
Monkey Tricks.
“There is nothing in the communal life of
monkeys to correspond to the human institution
of marriage.”— “World’s News.”
Though marriage, so grim and severe,
May never put monks, in a spot.
They make it abundantly clear
That they pick on each other a lot!
NAT.
K.O.
“Her husband said he could get all the fight-
ing he wanted in the boxing ring and told her
to regard their married life as finished.”
—Divorce report.
The wedding ring and boxing ring
Both hold full many a rousing bout.
But this pug, wishing to be free,
Named his own wife as referee.
And told her she could count him out.
P. P.
Going on the Bust.
“Mr. Dedman’s decree that the maximum
length of a frock must be decided by the
wearer’s bust measurement is now in force.
Regulations also forbid seams of more than
i in"” . .
As one who conducts a very exclusive
modiste salon, I must confess that I have
found the regulations rather irksome.
Used to allowing liberal seams, I had
a feeling that the maximum iin. seam
would lead to trouble, and not only with
my clients. My salon was haunted by
W. 0.1. inspectors. I spent hours arguing
with them. One fellow in particular
was horrid.
This objectionable person came in one
day as I was turning up the hem of a chic
organdie house dress we had just com-
pleted for an order. He pulled out a
carpenter’s rule and handed it to his
assistant, who measured the hem and an-
nounced it was 9-16th of an inch. I told
the fellow his assistant had measured it
from the centre of the seam to the out-
side of the picot edge. He said that was
right, and I then informed him it was iin.
to the inside of the tipy scallops, which
conformed with the Act.
He went away mumbling. I anticipate
that by the time' he gets a ruling from
Canberra its owner will be using the
frock, cut up, for dusters.
I found that a knowledge of psychology
and physiognomy helped a lot regarding
seams, and I put it into practice after a
couple of unfortunate experiences to
clients using the narrower seam. One
who took a too-sudden breath to say
“Oh! ” with the shock of hearing a traffic
cop being polite to a motorist had to
borrow a chaftbag to go home in ; an-
other had a fit of the giggles and finished
up in only her foundations.
After that I studied the client’s physiog-
nomy and habits closely, and if 1 detected
an incipient double chin or found out
that she hogged into cream cakes for
afternoon tea I sewed the seams with
cutty hunk cord or lashing sisal. In
frocks of stiff materials I sometimes used
piano wire. When 1 could get no further
supplies of these I used glue when clients
putting on weight ordered skin-tight frocks.
Except that on coming home after being
out in a heat-wave, they’d have to soak
in hot water for half an hour before they
were able to prise the frock off slip or
step-ins, it was satisfactory enough.
The length-according-to-bust arrange-
ment proved a real headache.
One of my best clients, a Miss String-
beans, who was 6ft. 2in. tall and with a
figure that made Olive Oyl look obese by
comparison, wanted something that
would make her inconspicuous and give
an appearance of lesser height. I sug-
gested a delightful taffeta I had in stock
—a quiet thing in ox-blood and canary
vertical stripes.
Her bust, as I measured it, was
the same as her torso and hips. Turning
up my Dedman chart, I found that the
skirt with that size bust could be only
18iin. To get the illusion of greater
length, I tried every known device of
the profession, from putting reverse
godets in to flaring the pleats.
Now, with my perfect cutting, fittings
are unnecessary, but I always personally
assist the client to put the finished frock
on when she comes to pick it up.
As I wedged the frock on over her
head Miss Stringbeans, fingering the
frilly end that came just above the elastic
band of her scanties, expressed surprise
that I had made it in two pieces. She
thought the blouse rather smart, and
asked where the skirt was. I explained
that that was the skirt, all that could be
allowed under the new Dedman regula-
tions. I believe she was arrested the first
time she wore it on the street.
Another client whom we used to refer
to playfully in the salon as Mrs. Fair
and Square —she was a bottle blonde, 4ft.
II in. high and the same width—had a
57in. bust. I made her a high-waisted
floral dirndl with reversible sleeves and
gussets, an octagonal neckline and a de-
tachable yoke. Reference to the Dedman
chart showed that it would take 2j pages
of coupons and the skirt must measure
sft. 9in. to go with that size bust.
When she came to get her frock my
client remarked with some asperity that
she hadn’t ordered a train, as she had no
notion of being presented at Court in
the frock. T renlied that it was not my
doing but Mr. Dedman’s, and that if she
hacked any off she risked being shot for
sabotaging the war effort. She turns
it up now, qt my suggestion, and uses
it as a cape, held in place by a couple
of boiler rivets.
BO.


THE OTHER FELLOW'S MIND
The contributor placed first is paid
4£d. per line; all others 2|d. per line.
Plenty of Money About!
It would be a liberal education to
Mr. Chifley or Professor Copland to
visit auction rooms, have a look at the
junk on sale, and note the fancy prices
paid for it. This is one of the leaks
which seem to have been overlooked in
the price-pegging game.
I was offered two carpet squares for a
fiver by a neighbor leaving our district.
I had no use for them, so he sent them
to our auctioneer, who knocked them
down at £lB 10s. —W. M. (Vic.).
Financing the War
1 am one of those who regret that the
first Austerity Loan was fully subscribed.
Failure to raise the full amount volun-
tarily would have forced the Government
to face up to the situation, and sheer
necessity would have dictated an im-
proved system of money-raising, based
on compulsory relinquishment of a pro-
portion of current earnings, either as
loans or straightout taxes.
However, thanks largely to the much-
abused middle class, the loan was fully
subscribed, but the ink didn’t have time
to dry properly on the papers announcing
its success before tub-thumping was re-
sumed, inviting advance subscriptions to
the next one. The same sickening
“arguments” are being trotted out again
apd intensified, all pointing to the con-
clusion that if the money isn’t raised our
troops will , have to go into battle ill-
equipped.
Could anything be more abjectly futile?
On the one hand there is the money, bar-
rels of it, being pushed over bar counters
and into bookies’ bags and generally being
used to inflate prices of the necessities
available and causing headaches to offi-
cials trying to control prices and prevent
inflation. On the other hand you have the
Government wringing its hands and say-
ing that failure to subscribe to loans will
mean that the services will go short of
equipment and supplies.
Such failure, of course, would mean
nothing of the kind. What it would mean
would be that the Government would be
forced to face up squarely to an un-
pleasant situation and perform a few
strong but simple actions in a reorienta-
tion of its war finance.
If Mr. Curtin won’t become a lot more
realistic, it is up to the Opposition to
come out with a really courageous policy
based on all-round equality of sacrifice,
and seek a mandate from the electors to
put it into force. —J. A. Spence (Q.).
“Vested Interests”
In B. 16 /12 / ’42, Mr. Dedman’s words
are quoted from “Hansard”: “We shall
take the ‘vest’ out of vested interests
before we have finished.” When he said
that he was announcing a direct attack
on all trade-unions, all savings bank
depositors ; in fact, every thrifty member
of the working classes. — Student
(N.S.W.).
Gallup Polk
I have known several people whose
opinions have been sought, I was present
when one such person was interviewed,
and I am acquainted with three accredited
interviewers in Queensland.
The business of collecting opinions
appears to be very well worked out. The
country is divided into districts, no doubt
on a population basis, and interviewers
are selected for each district. School-
teachers are a favorite choice, no doubt
because of their standing in the commu-
nity, their long hours of leisure and their
opportunities to become familiar with
their districts through their pupils.
With each set of questions on
which opinions are sought precise
instructions are given to interviewers
as to the number of persons to
be interviewed, the proportion of each
sex and of urban and rural dwellers,
the number in each of the various
a f groups tset up, etc. Cognisance is
also taken of the apparent prosperity or
otherwise of the interviewees and other
factors. Interviewers receive excellent
general instructions, are kept posted as
to the progress of the undertaking, are
invited to submit suggestions and aie
otherwise encouraged to. take an interest
in the job.
And, in my judgment, the job is well
done.—-Chen (Q.).
Country Woo! Appraisement
In spite of opposition from wool-
growers, brokers and appraisers, it is
reported that six or more additional
wool-storage and -appraisal centres are
to be established in N.S.W. and Queens-
land. Advantages arising from the pro-
posal can be only of a political nature,
particularly when it is noted that Moree,
Narrabri and Dubbo are three of the
centres mentioned. The two former are
in Minister Scully’s electorate and Dubbo
is in the electorate of Mr. J. J. Clark,
who put up the plan.
The chief difficulties this year in hand-
ling wool have been concerned with
transport and man-power, and the pro-
posal to open new centres in the country
will aggravate rather than relieve the
trouble. There will be the preliminary
cost of erecting the buildings at a period
when building materials and the labor
for erecting them are particularly scarce.
This year, on account of the shortage
of trucks wool could not be shipped to
the seaboard in sufficient volume to fill
catalogues. To make full
use of railway trucks demands full load-
ing on outward and inward journeys, and
if wool is railed to a country centre it
means not only that the trucks have to
be forwarded empty all or part of the
way to the port, but that wool which was
sent to the country centre still has to be
handled again and forwarded to sea-
board for shipment. It will require
“Well, give me till next Week to make it up — it's raceless Saturday today."
further handling at the seaboard before
shipment, so the country appraisement
centres will only impose additional strain
on man-power by the extra staff required
at each new centre, including brokers’
representatives and office staffs, ap-
praisers, storemen and lorries.
It is claimed that burry wools and
other types unsuitable for immediate
shipment would be retained in the coun-
try, but there would be little advantage
in doing this unless carbonising plants,
scours and repacking stores were also
built to deal with the wools sent to these
depots. At present these facilities are
established at present appraisement
centres, and the further expense of dupli-
cating these processes in the country
would eventually have to be borne by the
woolgrower. In any case, each of these
services is already finding it extremely
difficult to carry on on account of labor
shortage, and where they would get the
additional staffs for country centres and
also the houses to accommodate them
and their families is a problem that does
not seem to have occurred to the origi-
nators of the plan.
The choice of centres also leaves much
to be desired. Moree and Narrabri are
on the same railway line, and are only
60 miles apart. An appraisement centre
at Werris Creek would have infinitely
more advantages than Narrabri, as it
would tap the northern line as well as
the north-west. But it is to be hoped that
the cold light of reason will be brought
to bear on the entire project before it
goes any further. — Murrawong (N.S.W.).
Beer-rationing in N.Q.
In North Queensland, owing to ration-
ing, hotels are open only for two and
three hours through the day, and the
resultant concentrated rush to the bars
reminds one of feeding time on a pig
farm. The harassed barmaids find it
impossible to wash the glasses, which are
quickly rinsed through water saturated
with beer froth. It is impossible to forbid
the service man his beer, and the least
that could be done would be to see that
he is able to have his few drinks in com-
fort and under hygienic conditions. —
A. W. R. (Q.).
Beer and Soft Drinks
A lot of people besides “Pitt St.” (B.
23 /12/’42) were mystified by the public
announcement of the recent beer-ration-
ing increase. Shortly after it was adver-
tised an official “explanation” was pub-
lished ; it was to the effect that during
the cooler months the pubs did not
fully consume the beer ration, and the
“saving” was being allowed as a set-off
in the warmer months.
This may have satisfied Bung and co.,
but many simple-minded folk had the
idea that soft drinks and cordials are
not consumed in such large quantities
during cool weather. Is there no carry-
over of these? —Tos (Vic.).
Malta
The story of Malta is one of the finest
in this or any other war. It is good to
know that the old Mother in the North
Sea has come to the rescue with a free
gift of £10,000,000, with probably more
to come later.
Surely scores of thousands of Austra-
lasians have the same admiration for
Malta and the Maltese that I have. Let
me suggest a “shilling-plus” subscription.
—G. F. N. (Q.).
The Difference
I quote from the issue of the Commu-
nist “Tribune” containing the “Phoney
War” article by John Fisher, “our Mos-
cow correspondent” (A.8.C.) and named
Press Attache to the Australian Legation
at Moscow (B. 11/11/’42):
On November 7 (1939) the achievements
of the Great Socialist Revolution will be
celebrated. The Soviet Union is working
to restore peace.
“Peace may prove more effective than
war in defeating Hitler,” said Mr, E. J.
Holloway, M.H.R.
Will Advocate Peace—the team of Com-
munist speakers includes L. Harry Gould,
Jean Devanny and Stan Moran.
The best way to prevent a new Versailles
is to work for peace by negotiation.
As the Soviet press remarked, whether
Hitler’s particular terms are “accepted,
rejected or corrected they can at least serve
as a basis of negotiation,”
Stop this war before new crimes against
humanity are added to the old!
O what a difference there was on Novem-
ber 7, 1942!—D. E. (N.S.W.).
Compulsory Unionism
Under our democratic system the major-
ity of elected representatives forms the
Government, whose laws we must obey.
The unions are not elected by the general
public, and represent merely a section.
Therefore they have no right to brow-
beat other sections of the public.
It is safe to say that many thousands
are in unions solely by coercion. As a
wage-earner I recognise that organisations
of labor are necessary, but they should
be enlightened and intelligent, not narrow
and intolerant, as many are today.
As it is increased production that makes
for prosperity, in what way have the
modern unions assisted to this end?
Merely forcing up wages, and therefore
prices, retards exchange of commodi-
ties between the various groups of the
community. Go-slow tactics, harassing
the employer and promoting discord and
friction where none should exist, certainly
don’t make anybody richer. It is to
the technician, inventor and organiser of
industry that we owe the improved stand-
ard of living, not to mention modem
mechanisation, which many unions
oppose.
I lived in Canada and U.S.A. 25 years
ago. The average worker then regarded
the unions with a sort of contempt, as
he preferred complete freedom of action,
and yet the average standard of living
was without doubt the highest in the
world. When the unions here acquire
a spirit of co-operation instead of un-
reasoning antagonism they will be assets
to the country.—F. P. Delf (Q.).
Price Control and Post-war Trade
The British Social Security Plan, spon-
sored by Sir William Beveridge, will
depend on post-war trade and the price
of imported food.
The policy of Australia in the past has
been to make up export trade losses by
increasing the price in .the home market.
This policy resulted in a position where
the English unemployed were living at
the expense of Australians who balanced
production costs of commodities sold on
the English market. Price-control policy
should end this anomaly and make one
price for either home consumption or
export.
It is no benefit to England to buy our
products at below cost. England must
balance her food bill with exports of
manufactured goods, and the price paid
for our products will ultimately decide
what we can purchase from England.
Sir William Beveridge appears to
accept the fact that 8i p.c. of England’s
population will be unemployed. This
means that we revert to the pre-war posi-
tion or worse ; it means that 3£ million
people will be unemployed in England.
Surely this will not be allowed to happen
when there are plenty of opportunities
for the surplus population to be absorbed
in the further development of Australia.
It should be possible right now to plan
a migration scheme that will benefit
both England and Australia. It should
be possible to wipe out Australia’s exter-
nal debt through closer settlement in Aus-
tralia, and a trade agreement that pro-
vides for purchase of English manufac-
tured goods at prices that will pay off
the debt over a period of years. The
benefit of post-war trade agreements and
migration must be considered as part of
the British Social Security Plan. No
plan will succeed unless opportunities of
change are available. No amount of
weekly income can compensate the loss
of employment.
Loading of the price (sales tax) pro-
vides a far better method of collecting
contributions for social services than the
English scheme of taxing the employer.
Such tax goes on to the price eventually,
and when taken through loading the price
becomes more evenly distributed. —
Stephen Carley (N.S.W.).
Lost Ration Books
Those who lose ration books are
penalised while those who find them can,
if they wish, enjoy the benefit of extra
coupons. Losers must pay 2s. 6d. for
a new book and wait a month before
it is sent to them, probably with fewer
coupons in it than in their original one.
This long wait means hardship for poor
people who have no hoarded supplies
to tide them over the enforced lean
period.
No such hardship is suffered by finders.
They can get more of everything.-—P.
Radwon (Vic.).
Postal Charges
If the Commonwealth wants more
money —which it does —hasn’t the time
come for a logical difference in postal
charges? It always has been absurd to
make the same charge for a letter that
has to go to the next street or to, say,
the north of Scotland ; and in war-time
it is far more so.
Make local communication as cheap as
is reasonably possible, but, with these
enormous shipping difficulties, why
should we actually encourage overseas
correspondence? Either it is on business,
in which case so trifling an addition to
“overhead” .expense will never be
grudged, or it is in the nature of a luxury
and should be paid for accordingly.
Men on service already have a lowered
rate, but every other letter that has to
be conveyed across the ocean could and
should be charged a higher one —say
sixpence (at least) “for the duration”
and till the seas are open again.—S. T. S.
(S.A.).


VICTORY
is in
our
Pockets
Whatever we do now is of small
account unless it hastens victory . . .
We must think of that whenever
wg hold back a pound that might
gp into war savings ... £1 might
lessen by a minute the duration of
the war.
...£lOO might cut off an hour. That
is what we are saving... not simply
money but lives. Put every pound
you can into war loans. That is
what the M.L.C. is doing.
The business of life assurance is
protection, and we know of no
better way of protecting the
hundreds of thousands who entrust
the guardianship of their future
to us than by investing in Victory.
And Victory is in our pockets.
The Mutual Life and Citizens’
Assurance Company Limited
(INCORPORATED IN NEW SOUTH WALES.)
FOUNDED 1886.
Assets exceed
Payments to Policyholders exceed
£36,000,000
£45,000,000
The M.LC.
