

fd
The Bulletin
“The Bulletin,” VoL 64.—N0. 3287
Wednesday, February 10, 1943
Price 6d.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.
Seppelts
POWIS CASTLE.
I' HIS noble and ancient mansion, situated in the east-centre
county of Wales and dating back to 1109, occupies a command-
ing Entrance, surrounded by a large park, one mile south of
Welshpool, the county town of Montgomeryshire. It is the seat
of the Earl of Powis, not a family with the centuries of tradition
such as the Castle possesses, but yet none the less distinguished.
The Welsh equivalent for Powis Castle is Castell Coch, which means
the Red Castle. The interest in Powis Castle to-day may be said
to lie in the association with India of the noble family occupying
it. The originator of the family was the famous Indian commander
who became Clive of Plassey in 1762, when an Irish baronetcy was
conferred upon him. Few British boys and girls are not familiar
with the deeds of Clive, who visited such condign punishment on
Suraja Dowlah, author of the atrocities known as “The Black
Hole of Calcutta.” Clive stormed Calcutta and afterwards, with
only 3000 men, completely routed Dowlah at the head of 70,000
men. Following this striking victory he became Governor of
Calcutta and did much to solidify British role in the Dependency.
Returning to England he entered Parliament as member for
Shrewsbury, a seat he retained after his elevation to the Irish
Peerage. In 1774 he died, unhappily, by his own hand. His son
and successor received the British and U.K. titles. Still earlier
titles than any of those just indicated were the Barony Powis of
Powis Castle (1629) and the Marquessate of Powis (1687). Both
became extinct in 1748, Among the great names of the race few
stand higher than Clive.


Learn
IStcclcbvcc
Journalism
at HONE
This Book FREE to YOU!
STOTT’S CORRESPONDENCE COLLEGE.
100 Russell Street, Melbourne.
CUT HERE AND MAIL
Please send, without obligation, your New Free
Booklet explaining how to Write lor Profit, as
advertised in the Sydney “Bulletin."
My Name
My Address
S.B. 143
The Red Page
THE NEW "AUSTRALIAN
POETRY."
Maybe it’s a journalistic vulgarity, but
the present commentator has always be-
lieved that no work of art —painting,
novel or poem—really counts unless it
has “news value.” The classic explana-
tion of what newspapermen mean by that
term is, of course, that when a dog bites
a man it’s not “news,” but when a mdn
bites a dog it is “news.” . If Australian
Poetry, 1942 were composed of thirty or
so pleasant little pieces of verse indis-
tinguishable from the hundreds of
pleasant little poems that are written in
Australia every year, there would be no
harm in it; it might be worth reading ;
but it would not be worth serious praise
or serious attack.
This is the second issue of Angus and
Robertson’s annual anthology (the com-
panion short-story collection, Coast to
Coast, is on the way), and on the editor,
Robert D. Fitz Gerald, rested the respon-
sibility for making a book that had
enough news value to make the readers
of last year’s effort keen on the continua-
tion of the project. Fitz Gerald has done
his job so well that the book is not
merely alive, but astonishingly so.
There’s always one way of getting news
value —to publish experimental verse.
And in war-time there’s another way—
to publish poems about the war. But
both of these editorial sleights-of-hand
could be extremely dangerous. An insist-
ence on experimental verse would limit
the appeal of the anthology to a coterie.
An insistence on war poetry might lower
the literary standard.
When this series of annual anthologies
was first suggested on the Red Page, the
idea was that it should appeal as broadly
as possible to the ordinary cultivated
reader. No defence of suclra policy is
needed. It is not a matter of pandering
to popular taste. It is simply a recog-
nition of the fact that the ordinary culti-
vated reader, detached from the fashion-
able squabbles of the day, is the ultimate
court of appeal to which all efforts in
art are always referred. If it is “news”
to him the anthology achieves its purpose.
Here is one of Fitz Gerald’s news items
for the general reader —Ella McFadyen’s
“The Mad Piper,” with its ingenious mix-
ture of new and old and its Housman-
esque sting in the tail;
A piper played in Hamelm Town
A martial rant and fine,
And Fritz has laid the hammer down,
And Hans has left the vine;
As foolish babes they turned their feet
And the piper, on before,
Has played them up the village street
From the homes they’ll see no more.
Weary and long their way shall be
That follow the piper loon,
m And many a lad must pay the fee
That never called the tune.
And that’s the only way of making
news that’s really justifiable in a national
anthology. Ignoring the newness of ex-
periment for experiment’s sake, ignoring
the newness of topical verse, to submit
poetry so good that technique and topi-
cality are irrelevant. Except to the
coteries, obscurity is not news ; the charm
of light lyrics is not news; news value
lies in pure poetic quality, clearly ex-
pressed and of striking force. Brian
Vrepont’s “The Apple-tree” is another
piece that’s astonishing because it’s so
good a poem —a child singing among the
blossoms and the wind of life and death
shaking both:
A shudder ran like a run of wind
Over the apple-tree, she
Felt the wind, but only a wind
Stirring the apple-tree;
It was the wind of life
Trimming the Spring; what but Summer’s
breath
Taking the swinging
Feet and singing—
“ One, two, three —one, two, three —one, two—
Death!”
There is the tragic eloquence of Ken-
neth MacKenzie’s “Fairy Tale”—a child,
perhaps hearing aeroplanes in the night,
awakes screaming with nightmare and
Civilisation is forced, for very shame, to
assure her that the war is all a dream:
the fighting on the dunes,
Slaughter among mountains, under suns
Torrid and dusty, in snows, in the dark,
in the dawn and at twilight. Death sniping
Merrily from the void wipes out a city.
And with a mighty shout as of one voice
We all scream “Pity—give pity! And money!”
and then
Are seen, in the exploding crash and roar
Of chambered flame released, to be men
(Or women) impressed by so much devastation:
The like of it has never been seen before,
And it’s the proof of our age, civilisation —
You see it in a bombshell in the night,
And you, my darling, suck it out of the air
Into your sleep, and dream it really is true.
And there is Betty Riddell’s poem about
the death of a life-saver, a verse that
makes news not only as an astonishingly
good piece of writing but also as a piece
of specifically Australian writing: —-
He was carried shoulder high
Up the alleys of the sun;
And the heat
Washed over him from his head to his feet,
But you cannot give the body back breath
With a flagon full of sun.
He is drowned, the tali one.
Thin brother Death
Has him by the throat
On the sand, in the sun.
With poems such as these outstanding,
and a generally high standard, Fitz-
Gerald’s selections make news chiefly by
their quality as poetry. But, by skim-
ming the cream of the Red Pages of
A.I.F. verse, the book also makes news
by offering a group of soldier verses that
are at once good poetry and highly topi-
cal. The selections range from J. Alex.
Allan’s tragic impression of the campaign
in Greece—“ Breaking”—to the unforget-
tably humorous and charming “Chez
Nous” of A. G. Austin:
So in we fit
Though we’re cramped a bit —
Old Rat
And Flea
And Bird
And me.
Maurice Biggs’s resonant “Battle Dress”
and Garry Lyle’s “To My Brother in
the Navy” are included.
Nor has the news value of experimen-
tation been neglected. The odd, the un-
conventional and the technical experiment
are represented by Peter Hopegood’s
obscurely compelling “Free Martin,” by
Eve Langley’s “Celtic Guest,” Gina Bal-
lantyne’s “Transient,” Frederick Macart-
ney’s “Bargain Basement,” Peter Miles’s
“Wind,” H. Vinter’s “Moment in His-
tory”—very much in the contemporary
manner —and by John Quinn’s “Troop-
ship”—a free-verse item among the sol-
dier poems which, though it may be a
good short story put in the wrong form,
is skilfully cadenced and highly dramatic.
For the contributors, successful or un-
successful, and for those readers who
take a critical interest in the anthology,
there’s also news in the principles upon
which the editor has made his selections.
There is first, obviously, an insistence on
poetic quality outstanding poetic
quality. There is also a clear leaning
towards poems that, though short, deal
seriously with a large theme: Leonard
Mann sums up “The Earth” ; “E” affirms
the eternal struggle of life; T. Inglis
Moore sees that, however disillusioned,
no Australian can “surrender to a life
on subject knees” —he must go out in
the old way armed with “The sword
swung by the fighting Anzacs years
ago”; Ethel M. Davies warns against
the crying-down of the soldier when peace
comes again ; Mary Gilmore gets to the
heart of “Nationality” in eight lines;
and Norma L. Davis sees herself as the
incarnation of her Tasmanian earth:
This is my song. I sing it without fear!
Mine is the profit, mine, all mine the gain.
A thousand years hence spring shttll find me here
Laughing in sun or weeping in the rain.
There are youthful experimenters
whose omission from this year’s an-
thology one might be inclined to regret;
there are also a few soldier poets who
must very nearly have reached the edi-
tor’s necessarily exacting standard. But
—apart from the fact that unsuccessful
contributors will have their chance in
future years—no editor, either in all his
inclusions or all his omissions, can please
everybody. One most regrettable omis-
sion is a contribution by Fitz Gerald
himself. Taken as a whole, the book is
a credit to the editor, the publishers and
to Australian poetry.
The Eyes and the Brain .
Prof. Wolfgang Koehler, American
psychologist, in his new work Dynamics
in Psychology (Faber), recommends him-
self to the non-scientific but interested
reader who is a little fed-up with Freu-
dian pretensions by admitting that psy-
chologists cannot make “such startling
discoveries as constitute the pride of
physics” because “man was acquainted
with practically all territories of mental
life a long time before the founding of
scientific psychology.”
Prof. Koehler has been investigating
the way people see things. He carries
into the laboratory those ingenious little
perceptive tricks one sees in juvenile
magazines—-the line that looks long in
certain surroundings and short in others ;
the cubes that sometimes appear hollow,
sometimes solid. Elaborating and build-
ing upon such ingenuities (aided by other
investigators on similar lines) he has
devised methods of proving not only
that the eyes can mislead the brain, but
that the extent of the misleading can be
accurately measured and the reasons for
misrepresentation analysed and defined.
Prof. Koehler, far from considering
psychology as a science in a watertight
compartment, pursues his investigations
into the sphere of neurology, and ad-
vances 4 hypotheses that involve chemical
and electro-magnetic effects, and, most
importantly, link mental phenomena with
Faraday’s concept of a field around an
electrically-charged body. This concept
of a field seems as necessary to Koehler
as a psychologist as does the concept of
ether (or some tangible nexus, by what-
ever name) to the physicist concerned
with cosmological phenomena.
To the general reader, however, the
main interest of Prof. Koehler’s obser-
vations will be in the various queer ex-
periments whose results he reports upon.
And it is perhaps in this direction that
psychological science is best served, ft
is by poking about in the small obscure
corners of problems that physicists have
made their most helpful discoveries.
Melodrama .
[Scene: 252 George-street. The Reviewer is
discovered seated at a desk upon which, in the
utmost disorder, lie books, papers, the dis-
membered bodies of several critics who be-
lieve that poetry is dead, and photographs or
T. S. Eliot, Maxwell Anderson and L. L. Woola-
cott. A short, squarish man dashes into the
room, thrusts a bomb into the Reviewers
hands, and disappears. His name is L. L.
Woolacott. The bomb is a book called Play-
writing (Currawong Publishing Co.), by L. L.
Woolacott. The Reviewer goes to sleep.]
Mr. Woolacott’s Bomb ( explosively ):
Shakspeare, as a playwright, is now no-
thing but an outmoded bungler!
Reviewer (startled): What!
Mr. Woolacott’s Bomb: Judged by
modern stage standards Shakspeare is
a hopeless bungler!
Reviewed: But
Mr. Woolacott’s Bomb: Much of
Shakspeare, if written for the stage of
today, would be dismissed as clumsy
rubbish!
Reviewer: But
Mr. Woolacott’s Bomb: Any play-
wright today who succeeds in having
staged a play written in verse will be
courting the “Bird”!
Reviewer: But
Mr. Woolacott’s Bomb: Which is the
theatrical equivalent for the “raspberry”!
Reviewer: “But”
Mr. Woolacott’s Bomb: The term
“tragedy” is outmoded!
Reviewer (puzzled): What!
Mr. Woolacott’s Bomb: “Hamlet” is
a comedy!
Reviewer: But
Mr. Woolacott’s Bomb; What was the
shared secret of both Shaw and Shak-
speare? Shamelessly, before the snarl-
ing mouths of the professional and un-
professional pedants, I link the two
names —despite the fact that Shakspeare
was probably the greatest poet that ever
lived, in addition to being one of the
greatest dramatists of all time. Their
shared secret was that they had tremen-
dous things to say and had the vitality
to say them, as best they could, in drama-
tic form. Both, in short, were —are —
propagandists of the highest order!
Reviewer: But
Mr. Woolacott’s Bomb: Here I risk
bringing down on my bald patch the
wrath of every surviving adherent to the
rotten Oscar Wilde formula* “Art for
Art’s sake.”
Reviewer: Yes, but
Mr. Woolacott’s Bomb; To write a
play today in blank verse or any other
sort of verse is as stupidly pretentious
as if one were to sit down and write an
imitation of a Greek play!
Reviewer: But
Mr. Woolacott’s Bomb: 1 hope that
the precious young gentlemen inclined
to “devote themselves exclusively and
continuously” to writing poetic drama
will be drafted into their respective
armies and that by a happy miracle they
will be brought face to face and blow
themlselves mutually into the oblivion
they would achieve, anyway, if they sur-
vived and wrote dramas in verse!
Reviewer: Help!
Mr. Woolacott’s Bomb: The barriers
between nations are visibly breaking
down. Hence the need for the prole-
tariats of the world to insist on the adop-
tion by all Governments of a universal
language!
Reviewer: But, cripes
Mr. Woolacott’s Bomb: Brrr!
[Brought face to face with this happy miracle,
the Reviewer places Mr. Woolacott’s bomb
between his teeth and blows himself into
oblivion.]
SUNDRY SHOWS.
Trying in his A.B.C. play “Fountains
Beyond” to make a tragedy out of the
clash between the Australian and the
abo., George Landen Dann struck the
old snag that there is, in fact, no clash:
no clash, that is, in which strength meets
strength. Had the abos. united and
fought against the white, they would have
made material for drama ; were a play-
wright or a novelist able truthfully to
depict them now as struggling valiantly for
civil rights, a general racial drama would
be possible. But the situation of the
abos. has always been exactly that defined
by Matthew Arnold as impossible for
art: merely “pitiable,” without the heroic
conflict, physical or mental, that makes
the stuff of tragedy. Dann might have
been able to make a personal tragedy—
the failure of ambition —out of his half-
caste who strives for the betterment of
the abos.; but the emphasis, instead of
being personal, was on the general
reaction of the abos. to their being up-
rooted from a cherished camp ; there was
no general struggle, only pathos and pity,
and so nothing to lift the play from pro-
paganda to tragedy.
“Fountains Beyond” is two plays. One,
the propaganda play, though interesting
because it is Australian propaganda,
necessarily fails. The other, a triangle
drama among the blacks, also tragic, suc-
ceeds. There Dann is dealing with real
struggle, lover against husband ; the err-
ing wife, sullen towards her husband yet
appalled at breaking the bounds, was
a universal character, convincingly
written and movingly acted; conse-
quently there is real drama and real
tragedy. That is probably the only way
in which Australian writers will manage
to make creative drama, as distinct from
propaganda, about the abos.: to write
about them as individuals and, except in
those cases where the individual clashes
dramatically against the white individual,
to set the dramas within the framework
of aboriginal life. Even when the attempt
is made, as in Eleanor Dark’s The Time-
less Land, to build up the abo. into
Rousseau’s Noble Savage, he cannot be
made into the heroic figure of tragedy.
Cinesound’s cameraman has photo-
graphed a Performing Koala. Showing
in a current newsreel, brother bear rides
nonchalantly upon the back of an Alsa-
tian and doesn’t seem the least perturbed
when the hound takes to the water. He
eats ice-cream and makes no objections
when the Alsatian, getting a share of
what’s clinging to his whiskers, licks his
chops. There’s another bright glimpse
of nature in the raw in a scene from
‘‘Palm Beach Story” (Sydney Century):
middle-aged members of an Ale and
Quail Club being chivalrous to a lady
in distress amidst an uproar of barking
pointers, gunfire as marksmen settle bets,
and the singing of “Sweet Adeline” —all
taking place in the confines of a speed-
ing railway sleeping car. It makes an
excellent domestic comedy in which
Rudy Vallee steals the show with a per-
formance as polished as it’s unexpected.
“F.S.”: Judging by the All-Australian
Exhibition of Art by Australians in the
services at the Athenaeum, Melbourne,
the place for maintaining artistic inspira-
tion is the Army, the Navy or the Air
Force. You can paint what you like
and how you like without undue inter-
ference. If there hadn’t been a war on
many of these incipient painters would
by now have joined up with some “move-
ment,” gone commercial or given up
painting. The variety of the work is
astounding. Some of the exhibitors
already belonged to the National Gallery
school or the ultra-modern, and getting
into khaki hasn’t changed their view-
point. But the bulk of the work comes
from individual effort untrammelled by
any fashions. Some of it was done in
places as far apart as Libya and New
Guinea.
Joy Ewart, who has a show of oil-
paintings at the Macquarie Galleries,
Sydney, affects a ruggedness of style remi-
niscent of Cezanne, and applies it to
portraiture, landscape and still-life. In
“Gum Blossom” she achieves some of
the brilliance which is the object of a
rock-cake surface. Her studies of elderly
ladies are fiercely realistic. Some of the
pictures exhibit a very just appreciation
of values. As in most Australian cases
of the sort, the impression given is that
an alien eccentricity of manner has been
adopted principally as a means of demon-
strating sophistication and baffling the
hoi polloi.


'TRUTH IN ADVERTISING"
"THE SENIOR STORE"
ANTHONY
FAMOUS
HORDERNS'
LOW PRICES
CHALLENGER
LIGHTWEIGHT ROADSTER
LIGHTWEIGHT ROADSTER
Built of British parts only with a 22-inch
rust-proof, steel frame, safety pinned, inner
brazed lugs. The wheels are British 28-inch
x 14-inch with standard British rims. Aus-
tralian guaranteed tyres. Cglliper rim
brake, roller \ x i-in. chain, ' reversible
handle bars and complete with tool bag,
inflator, tools and reflector. At Anthony
Horderns'. Price £ll/16/6
THE “VINCENT RICHARDS”
By Dunlop
This racket was designed by the
famous American player, Vincent
Richards. Strung to high tension and
on the leather handle grip is outlined
this player's grip. At Anthony Hor-
derns'. Price 45/.
LADY’S “CHALLENGER”
LIGHT TOURER
The frame is made from British
parts only with a 21-inch rust-proof,
steel frame, safety pinned lugs,
standard 28-inch x 1 finch wheels,
Australian tyres, rubber pedals,
English i x i-inch chain and de-
tachable chain guard, cord dress
guard, lightweight steel mud-
guards and equipped with tool
bag, tools, inflator and reflector. At
Anthony Horderns'. Price, £l3/1/-
n
m
m
WILLARD
THE “JIM WILLARD”
By Alexander
This is also a specially designed
model by a master player. Strung
with first grade hard court gut. At
Anthony Horderns'. Price 55/-
THE “FRED PERRY”
By Slazenger
This model was designed by the
world famous English player, Fred
Perry. It has perfect balance and is
strung with special gut and fitted
with a cane handle and corrugated
leather grip. At Anthony Horderns’.
Price 557-
PHONE: M 2401, DAY AND NIGHT
MEN’S BOXING GLOVES
First class boxing gloves. Well pad-
ded and in sets of four. At Anthony
Horderns'.
8 oz. glove. Prices, set, 24/- and 26/7
Special quality. Price, set ... 38/6
12 oz. glove, heavy. Price, set, 48/6
BOX 2712 C, G.P.0., SYDNEY


S. H. PRIOR PRIZE
For reasons already stated, there
will be no competition inviting sub-
mission of MSS. for the duration of
the war at least.
The Prize this year (£100) will
be awarded to the author or authors
of the book by an Australian writer
which the trustees consider the most
valuable contribution to Australian
literature published in Australia be-
tween June 6, 1942, and June 6,
1943. (“Australia” and “Austra-
lian” for the purposes of this award
include New Zealand.)
No work that has already won a
monetary prize will be eligible.
GRIT AND MY UNCLE GABRIEL
By BERNARD VAUGHAN SMITH.
I WAS feeling scared of my dad that
day ; he was in a pretty bad mood.
There hadn’t been any rain for weeks,
the wheat was browning off before
the ears had fully grown, the cows were
drying off about six or seven weeks be-
fore they should and only down by the
creek was there anything like decent
grass, so my dad was feeling not too
good and was just waiting for one of us
to get in his way to blow us up. I dug
my bare heels into Nigger’s sides to
make her hurry along and kept whistling
the dogs into the cows so that he couldn’t
pick on me. I had the cows going down
the slope to the creek a bit too fast and
I didn’t want them to be blowing too
much when they got to the sheds, so I
called off the dogs. Then I heard a bang
a bit up the river, just past where the
willow patch is.
I was going to ignore the noise. I
didn’t want to hear it because I knew
it had to do with my Uncle Gabriel.
My Uncle Gabriel was a short, dark
man with great black eyebrows and eyes
that glittered from under them like a
gipsy’s. When he looked at you, which
he almost always did, right into your
own eyes, you started asking yourself
what you had been doing the past few
weeks that you shouldn’t have and then
you felt like turning round to see who
was behind you. You know the feel-
ing if someone walks quietly up
behind you; you don’t hear any-
thing, but you know there’s some-
body there. I’ve seen plenty of people
talk to my uncle and get nervous and
look behind them, though he was not
always like that to all people. Kids liked
him. He always was ready to go eeling
with us at night and would tell us all
he knew of fishing and shooting, and of
his experiences in the war and out pig-
hunting with only dogs and a knife.
Still, most folks were a bit scared of
him.
He is dead now many years, and plenty
of people round our district were glad
when he died.
They mostly said, too, they had a fair
idea of where he had gone to, or where
he ought to have gone to if the Lord
knew his job right, which they wouldn’t
have said while he was alive. Not that
my Uncle Gabe had ever really
gone for anyone. He had a whare
over beyond the creek that ran
through our place and he was away
for some weeks every year doing a bit
of shearing. That was all he ever did,
yet he lived well and never seemed to be
short of cash. I know I could always go
across to his place and have a feed with
him, though the grocer at the store in
town said he scarcely ever bought any-
thing except his tobacco. He was a mys-
tery man all right, and he had a way
with him that made people say that he
wasn’t a man to interfere with.
I had made up my mind to ignore the
bang from up the river when there came
the sound of another one and I knew I
would have to go. It was my Uncle
Gabe and I knew what he was at. I’d
get in for a big row if I was late with
the cows and a bigger one if I let my
uncle dynamite my father’s trout. My
dad had a fair idea that they were being
blown out of his stretch of river and
was determined that it wouldn’t keep on,
but up to now Uncle Gabe had been too
smart for him. I whistled the dogs to
keep the cows on through the creek and
then I turned Nigger up towards the
willows.
MY uncle was the first man I had ever
seen straight after an accident, and
he looked pretty bad. He was standing
up, and he had his fingers across his
face and blood was coming through
them, and he was swearing and moaning
a bit. His shirt was all torn and there
was a smell of burnt powder. I hopped
off Nigger quick and my uncle stopped
his swearing and moaning when he heard
me, and said very quietly when I asked
him what was the matter: “Nothing,
son. Have you got the horse? I think
you had better get me up to your place.
I got it fair in the face.”
He started to swear again, softly but
fiercely, and it sounded all the worse. I
got him through the willows and over to
Nigger. At first he tried to get up on his
own, and for a moment he took his
hands from his face. I felt sick and
gave him a leg up, keeping my eyes away
from his face. I gave him my handker-
chief, and then took Nigger’s bridle and,
running where the ground was fairly
even, led him up to the house as the
cows were coming straggling up the home
paddock.
My father came running up. I think
he was looking for me to ask why I
wasn’t with Nigger helping the dogs. He
didn’t say anything, though, when he saw
Uncle Gabe, but ran across the yard
and without asking me what had hap-
pened helped my uncle off the horse and
led him inside. Uncle Gabe didn’t offer
any explanation either.
When my mother came to the door
and saw my father helping Uncle up the
back step, she didn’t give a peep, but
before you could even staft wondering
what to do to be useful she was rushing
round the house, heating water, tearing
up an old sheet and telling us to keep
out of her way, all at once it seemed,
she was so quick. After a while she
came out and told me sharply to put on
my socks and boots and get Nigger and
go off to town for the doctor, quick as
I could.
AFTER about five months my uncle
was ready to leave hospital, and we
went to get him in the car because he
couldn’t have found his own way home,
being blind, and likely to stay that way,
so the doctors said. However, after a
week or two he insisted in his own quiet
and determined way on going back to
his whare. My mother only agreed after
he had promised to come to the house
once a day for dinner or tea, so that if
he hadn’t arrived by six in the evening
we would know that everything wasn’t
just as it should be.
Very soon afterwards he bought a
bull-Dane cross pup and took it to the
city, where there was a place where they
trained dogs for the blind. According
to Uncle Gabe, the people there didn’t
want to train his pup, as they reckoned
that only certain types of dogs were suit-
able, but Uncle in his own style got his
way. Apparently the pup turned out
pretty good, for after six months they
sent for my uncle to go and have some
training himself, getting to know the dog
and the orders to give and all that sort
of thing, and finally he arrived home
looking as pleased as he had ever looked,
with a great white and brindle beast on
a leash.
When I first saw Grit I went up to
pat him, but he made a low rumbling
sound in his belly and, as he was as big
as a three-weeks calf and had a head
like our Jersey bull, I shied away. A
wQrd from my unde and he i et me pat
: ust as j liked, but he never showed
appre ciation like the farm dogs
Y tbaf . be had been
always di 1. pp , , jth
just trained that way, though y
uncle he was full of life and as silly and
affectionate as you like,
My Uncle Gabe was enormously
proud of him. You would see them get-
ting up the road together, Grit lolloping
along in front, waiting at the ditches to
give a bark as a warning to my uncle,
and when they were in town making my
uncle wait on the street crossings ti
there were no cars m sight
When I got a bit older I used to go
into town on Saturdays for a couple ot
handles of beer, and my uncle was
always there in the Royal sitting over in
the corner with his glass in front of him,
., ... thrpp of us
Gr.t waning by hm. The toe ot us
would go home together, Grit a tew paces
ahead, his great shoulders rolling slightly
and his tongue, big as a flour sack almost,
lolling out the side of his mouth. My
uncle used to say as he sat in his whare
and rubbed his hands over Grit’s great
bulk what a wonderful pig-dog he would
have made.
THEY went on for some years like
that, the two of them always pointed
to as among the town’s most interesting
sights, and then one day Grit died. Uncle
hadn’t come over to tea as usual, so
Mother sent me over to see if he was all
right. He was sitting in his room, and
seemed no different from any other time
that I used to call over, but there was no
sign of the dog.
“Where’s Grit?” I asked.
Quite calmly my uncle told me that
he had died that morning and was already
buried. I was pretty shocked, I tell you,
for I knew how my uncle loved Grit as
he had never loved anything in his life,
I didn’t know what to say, so I said for
him to come over to the house for the
evening. He was very quiet. Mid said
after a moment yes, he a be over in
an hou y he had one or two
attend to
«g ut j low can y OU CO me over on your
QWn? rd better wait f or you ”
i oo ked at me rather strangely then,
w | tb ab R D f a g r j n on bis face. “I can
see as wed as y o u can, son,” he said,
j thought on the way home of how
directly my uncle had looked at anyone
he spoke to. He could see all right. I
wa s half-pleased and excited and half
bad-tempered at the thought of the way
he had taken us afl in.
.... ir
j_J E didn’t do away with himself, as my
1 1 mother thought he might, knowing
how much he depended on Grit in every
way. He died not a great while after ; not
of a broken heart or anything, just pneu-
monia and maybe a bit of old age. But
I’ve always wondered at my uncle’s love
for Grit. He told me one afternoon in
the pub that the dog so obviously liked
being the guide, and he liked it also being
led by such a grand dog, that he just ep
on as before after his sight began to
come back, the dog happy and himselt
content.
THE LONGREACH ROAD
By CHRISTOPHER INMAN.
WE travelled up and down the
Longreach road several times
each year, with Dalgonally bul-
locks from the Gulf each May
and later on in the year with wethers
from Vindex or the open downs country
near Richmond or Julia Creek. Towards
the end of the year the mile-wide stock
route would be just about flogged out by
travelling stock, so that only the black-
ened tussocks of the Mitchell grass re-
mained ; and as we passed through each
station paddock along the route a boun-
dary-rider would join us to see that the
sheep didn’t spread out beyond their
allotted mile on to the station grass.
There hasn’t been much change in a
drover’s life in Western Queensland since
“Banjo” Paterson wrote “The Ballad of
Saltbush Bill,” though in “Banjo’s” days
there was a lot more traffic on the Long-
reach road.
You can still see every twenty miles or
so the rotting timbers and broken bottles
of the shanties which marked the old
“mail changes,” where the coaches used
to change horses. But the days of coaches
ended when they completed the railway
to Winton.
It wasn’t a bad road to travel with
stock; there were no long dry stages
since the Government bores were put
down, and the country was all fenced.
Wood for the cook’s fire was hard to
get in some places ; for most of the route
the only trees were the straggling cooli-
bahs which marked the Western Creek
until you reached the watershed and
Maneroo Creek on the southern side, and
all the dry, dead timber had been used
by generations of drovers. But as long
as you can get enough dry timber to get
a fire started you can get good coals with
green coolibah.
There isn’t much difference between
the Longreach road and thousands of
miles of the stock routes all through
Western Queensland. Nearly all the main
routes follow some coolibah-shaded
creek, with the open downs on each side
and only the scattered whitewood-trees
on their higher ridges to break the hori-
zon. On hazy days the trees are dis-
torted by the mirage until they assume
fantastic shapes.
As we neared the boundary gates of
each station along the road the boss or
the horse-tailer would ride ahead to give
notice that we would be passing through.
In the morning a boundary-rider or
jackeroo would meet us to see us through
the station country. We got to know
most of these boundary-riders. They
welcomed the break that passing stock
gave them and the chance of a yarn with
the drovers.
The best-known of them all was old
Peter Moreton. His hut was not far from
the' stock route, and there was a good
waterhole in the creek on the western
side of the road, so most of the drovers
camped their stock close by. Each time
we entered the run we would find Peter
waiting for us at the gate. It was only
a day’s stage through the paddock, and
Peter would ride with us all day, follow-
ing us each time we rode up the wing
of the mob to keep it moving slowly
forward. If we had sheep he always
had with him a “handy sort of young
dog just coming on” ; and he would
give it a run or two to show us how it
was shaping. Then he’d try to sell it
t 0 us - .
If we had cattle, Peter would be
riding a good fat horse, and he
nearly always managed to make a deal
for some footsore plug which was low
in condition and two or three quid to
boot. Then he turned the plug out on
to the best station grass until it picked
up again. Later he would be able to
swap it for some other road-weary
drover’s nag and another two or three
quid to boot. Some years the money he
made from dealing amounted to more
than his wages from the station.
We never found out what he did with
his money, though he was always telling
us about the good money he had made
before he took on a regular job. There
was one year when he made a thousand
quid kangaroo-shooting on Galway
Station down the Cooper. We didn’t be-
lieve it, but later on we found out from
men who had known him down there
that it was true enough.
He was a tall, thin and wiry man who
sat in the saddle with the ease of a lad of
twenty. Like most men of over forty in
Western Queensland his age was hard to
estimate. His bearded face was creased
into wrinkles by the western sun, and
he might have been anywhere between
forty and sixty-five. He must have had
a strong dash of Irish blood, because he
was always “agin everything.” One
year he was an ardent Communist, and
as he rode with us he tried to convert
us all and to persuade us to contribute
to the party funds. The boss gave him
a dollar to shut him up, and later on he
got a letter from the party thanking him
for his subscription and enclosing a lot
of literature. When the A.W.U. organiser
came round collecting union fees he
told Peter that the Communists were a
lot of so-and-so’s; Peter sooled a blue
cattle pup on to the organiser, who only
just got back to his car in time to save
his trousers. However, after a time
Communism palled, Peter renewed his
subscription to The Bulletin and began
a crusade against State Governments.
Talking was one of Peter’s hobbies
when he could find anyone to listen to him.
Long after the stock were on camp for
the night he would stay with us, talking-
Once, so the story went, he followed the
drovers for two or three days after they
cleared the run to continue a discussion
with a shepherd who was a good listener.
It’s over three years since I travelled
the Longreach road with stock, and it
seems a hell of a long time sometimes
when I’m on guard at night, straining
my eyes as I watch the dark jungle
around the section post. I keep awake
by trying to remember all the gates and
camps along that road.


The Bulletin
Vol. 64.—N0. 3287.
Wednesday, February 10, 1943.
TAKING NO CHANCES.
"When I die the word ‘Calais’ will be engraven on my heart.” —Mary I, Queen of England.


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper
“Australia for the White Man”
Directors:
H. K. Prior J. E. Webb
P. H. Prior David Adams
HEAD OFFICE: 252 George Street. Sydney:
Box 252IBB; ’Phone 87971
Victoria: Newspaper House. 247-249 Collins
Street, Melbourne.
Queensland: 239 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
Westralia: 33 Barrack Street, Perth.
New Zealand: Nathan’s Buildings iopp,
G.P.0.), Wellington.
London : 1 Hare Place-. 47 Fleet Street,
London, E.C.4.
THEY WERE ANTI-A.I.F.
“Australia,” the speaker said, “has been
a constant contributor, to the very maxi-
mum of its resources, to the cause of
liberty on the far-flung fighting fronts
of the world.” Australian airmen were
to be found in every continent and had
“piloted aircraft against the enemy in
every continent, except America.” Aus-
tralian naval seamen had served on every
ocean, and “every major sea and ocean
is the graveyard of an Australian war-
ship.” And the achievements and sacri-
fices of Australian soldiers in Africa,
Europe, Asia and the islands north of
their own continent were known every-
where.
Bitter retreat had been their portion
in Greece, Crete and Malaya, closing
there in a disaster “which will be avenged
thrice over, as surely as the sun shines
high in the blue Australian sky.” But
“theirs was the glory of Tobruk; theirs
the spearhead of General Montgomery s
drive against Rommel; they were the
men of" whom Mr. Churchill said* ‘the
Ninth Division has played a glorious
part.’ ”
And in the defence of their own land
against a foe flushed with victory and
waging “war to the death,” Australian
soldiers had “given a new significance to
names such as Owen Stanley, Kokoda,
Buna, Gona and Sanananda.”
Those men wrested those places from the
Jap under fighting conditions unapproached
anywhere else in the world If they had
failed, if they had been pushed back to
Port Moresby, and finally on to the main-
land, the stage would ihen have been set
for attacks on the Splomons which would
have made the American position in those
islands precarious. But they did not fan,
and to them and to the men of the R.A.A.F.
and to the American soldiers and airmen
fighting with them, I reaffirm the highest
tribute that the Australian Government can
pay. And remember that the resistance
we have matched against Japan has been a
resistance without sea-power.
The speaker was Mr. Curtin, broadcast-
ing to the world on “our national day”
and reminding the Americans of “the
Australian viewpoint.” “This,” as he
said, is that “the global war involves
the South-west Pacific theatre,” which
“calls for greater air strength and
greater naval strength in supplemen-
tation of the valorous land forces,”
so that decisive blows may be struck.
Included in “the valorous land forces”
are United States conscripts; but
Mr. Curtin did not say so. Neither did
he refer to his record and that of his
party in support of his claim for ampler
American assistance, though the record
cannot be concealed.
On September 21, 1939, speaking on
a Defence Bill standing in his name, Mr.
Curtin stated the policy of the party in
these terms:
We say that if it is necessary to send
men on overseas service in order to defend
Australia, those men should be enlisted
voluntarily.... The Minister for Defence
said that there has been in the Defence
Act ever since it was passed an obligation
on the citizens of Australia to serve in
thd defence of territories of the Common-
wealth. That point is contested by the
Labor party. We say that there should
be no conscription of the Australian people
for the defence of Australia’s overseas
territories, which may be described as ex-
tra-territorial to the continent. We say
that they ought to be defended by forces
voluntarily recruited.
Mr. Ward, who introduced the bill,
had allowed that “members of the Oppo-
sition have no objection to the Govern-
ment having the power to raise forces
in the territories for local defence pur-
poses,” the “forces” available there con-
sisting of a few hundred men, mostly Old
Diggers. Mr. Holloway stigmatised “the
proposal to introduce compulsory service,
either inside or outside the Common-
wealth,” as “an insult to the loyalty and
patriotism of the Australian people.” Mr.
Holloway said more in the same strain,
and his speech drew a passionate retort
from Mr. Blain, himself an Old Digger,
who enlisted again and has been missing
in Malaya since February, 1942.
The member’s remarks show that he
looks upon New Guinea as a foreign land.
He declares that to send troops there would
be to send troops on foreign service.
Foreign service to defend the Diggers up
there! It is a policy of cowardice. If I had
my way and the Diggers had their way
Australia would dispatch troops to New
Guinea this afternoon. New Guinea is
part of the protective screen which extends
from the Malay Peninsula through the
archipelago and, touching Darwin as the
apex, passes through Port Moresby to the
Carolines and Samoa. Instead of deceiving
themselves, members opposite should be
doing their part towards ensuring that
ncignboring lands shall form part of our
protection.
These indignant words were wasted on
“members opposite.” Twenty-nine of
them were present when a division was
taken on Clause 3 (“no compulsory ser-
vice except for home [i.e., mainland]
defence”), and all were in favor of it.
They were defeated, but the majority was
only four.
On November 29, 1939, Mr. Curtin re-
ferred to “the declarations that have been
made by this party that we ought not to
send men overseas,” and asked the House
to declare that it was “opposed^to the
dispatch of expeditionary forces.” Mr.
Forde, now Minister for the Army, sup-
ported him, quoting with approval what
his leader had said on November 15 (“I
am opposed to an expeditionary force
leaving Australia”), and what he had
“pointed out on numerous occasions” —
that “we can make a very valuable con-
tribution to the cause by providing Great
Britain and our Allies with foodstuffs.”
Mr. Holloway went further.
Both inside this Chamber and outside it
I shall oppose, even to the point of stretch-
ing the law to breaking-point, any proposal
to send Australian soldiers to fight on
foreign battlefields.
Mr. Beasley was “amazed to think
that this Government would dare to take
the step it has taken.” Said Mr. Drake-
ford: “We can best assist Britain by
supplying to it necessary commodities
and by protecting Australia by increasing
its trained man-power—l believe there
will be no shortage of volunteers for the
defence of Australia if they are offered
the same rates of pay as in New Zea-
land.” Mr, James was “strongly opposed
to the raising of forces for overseas ser-
vice,” and so were Mr. Mulcahy and
Mr. Rosevear, and, of course, Mr. Ward.
Mr. Ward reminded members of what
he had “repeatedly said in this House
and elsewhere —that the anti-Labor Gov-
ernments of Australia have paid undue
regard in their defence programmes to
the imperialistic desires of certain
British leaders,” Mr. Ward accused the
Lyons Government of having, by dint
of its trade-diversion policy, so “im-
perilled our relations with the United
States” that “it is problematical whether
the United States would feel disposed to
assist Australia in the event of our being
attacked.” Moreover, “in this Parliament,
as in the British Parliament, the Con-
servative elements have strongly resisted
every suggestion that better relations
should be encouraged with Soviet Russia.”
If a friendly arrangement could have
been made with Soviet Russia we should
not have been facing the prospect of diffi-
culties with Japanese imperialists, for the
Japanese would not have had any inclina-
tion to move southwards I appeal to
members of the Opposition to continue
their campaign to prevent this Government
from shipping young Australians abroad to
foreign battlefields.
All the Labor members present voted
or paired for Mr, Curtin’s “amendment.”
It was defeated by 33 to 28.
It is not in the nature of the Wards
and Holloways to admit that they were
wrong, or ever could be. Mr. Curtin is
made of different stuff. He is notV grateful
for the existence of those “splendid battle-
trained” A.I.F. divisions. He closed his
broadcast with a “God bless you” ; and he
must many a time have thanked God
that, when the Japs struck towards Port
Moresby, there were veteran A.I.F. for-
mations, with war-wise leaders, to take
their onset, throw them back and finally
dig them out of Papua. In the absence
of the A.1.F., he said in the House
on Thursday, Australia was “once peril-
ously close to disaster ; our inability to
dispatch battle-trained troops to New
Guinea almost let Japan into a base from
which the whole of eastern Australia
would have been vulnerable to attack.”
And yet Mr. Curtin’s gratitude to the
A.I.F. is strictly confined to words. In
the terms of his Militia Hopscotch Bill,
while the A.I.F. is required to go on
fighting without geographical limits,
militia service is to be bounded on the
east by the 159th meridian, on the west
by the 110th meridian and on the north
by the Equator.
The Equator is 100 miles south of
Singapore, where just on a twelvemonth
ago what was left of an A.I.F. division
after the campaign in Malaya was taken
prisoner. It is difficult to see how this
disaster can be “avenged thrice over”
unless the avengers go to Singapore ; and
go there they will, as Mr. Curtin prom-
ised. But if his precious bill becomes law
and his precious party remains in office,
militiamen will not be among them.
The Prime Minister objects to the criti-
cism that this amounts to the abandon-
ment of the prisoners of war. He argues
that “it would be equally true to say that
we are abandoning our prisoners of wai
in Germany and Italy because the boun-
daries of the zone do not extend to
Europe.” Very poor special pleading,
but of a piece with the rest of the speech
in which he tried to defend the indefen-
sible. His “arguments” will be dismissed
with contempt in New Zealand, the
United States and Britain, whose called-
up citizen soldiers have to fight the
enemy—they patriotically accept the obli-
gation—wherever he is to be found.
This Labor measure is ignominious
and dangerous. It is wickedly unjust to
the soldiers who have done nearly all
the fighting and suffering. It is a blot on
Australia’s name. If Parliament accepts
it, Parliament will dishonor itself.
Though the majority of Opposition
Ms.H.R., with one eye on the ballot-box,
choose to take the easy and disgraceful
track behind their “leader,” Mr. Facing-
both-ways Fadden, there are others, like
Mr. Archie Cameron, who will not sacri-
fice their principles to an outrageous
form of expediency. And there are
enough Opposition Senators, eight of
whom are Old Diggers, to strike a blow
for Australia by refusing to let this- latest
and worst example of Labor legislation
pollute the Statute Book.
Talk of Invasion.
Having completed a 20,000-miles Pacific
tour with Admiral Nimitz and Admiral
Halsey, the U.S. Secretary of the Navy
gave out what could be taken as a
reply to Mr. Curtins Australia Day
broadcast. Colonel Knox declared that
there was “not the slightest desire
among military leaders, from the Presi-
dent down, to minimise the impor-
tance of this area.” He ventured the
theory that “the advantage is all ours in
a war of attrition.”
The Japanese will fight a hard, tough,
persistent war....We have just begun to
fight and haven’t hit our hardest blows
yet. We are giving the Japanese a lot to
worry about.
Colonel Knox found that the U.S.
forces had “dissipated the threat of the
Japanese ground forces on Guadal-
canal” ; the Americans now “dominate
the island.” He ventured on prophecy:
“I believe the Japanese have abandoned
the idea of reinforcing their troops there
and within 30 days all organised resist-
ance will disappear.” The Jap threat to
the Aleutians also was diminishing, while
Pearl Harbor, Oahu, Midway and other
points on the front were now adequately
defended. And there were “darn good
prospects of another air attack on
Tokyo.”
Perhaps Colonel Knox had caught
some of the infectious enthusiasm of
Admiral Halsey. At any rate, his
generally optimistic statement was in
extraordinary contrast with the tone of
Mr. Curtin’s broadcast.
Among other points of difference, Mr.
Curtin’s statement that “Time is fighting
on the side of Japan and against the
United States” is in conflict with Colonel
Knox’s view that the advantage lies
wholly the other way in a war of attri-
tion. This, however, is an open question.
On Colonel Knox’s side there is the fact
that America’s enormous production
capacity is not yet at its peak. It is
developing rapidly, and there is no ques-
tion that in mass production Americans
are in a class by themselves. Also, Ameri-
can forces —land, sea and air—are daily
increasing in strength.
On Mr. Curtin’s side there is the fact
that the Japs, too, are a great manufac-
turing people. They have free and prac-
tically undisturbed access to enormous
supplies of oil, rubber, tin and almost
all other essential war materials. While
they hold their present front lines they
have a completely free hand to go on
exploiting all this; and —bar the one
nuisance raid and possible future raids,
as promised by Colonel Knox their
manufacturing plants are as free from
interference as America’s ; more so, since
strikes still occur in America, as in Aus-
tralia.
On these counts time might possibly
be favoring one side as much as the
other. There is another count into which
time enters as the vital factor —and all
on one side.
All the places overrun by the Japs
hold teeming populations of the Japs’
fellow-Asiatics. The Filipinos showed by
fighting side by side with U.S. troops—
though not all the Filipinos—that their
preference was for America. The
Papuan natives showed the same feeling
for Australia. Elsewhere, the picture
was not nearly so good. In Malaya,
Burma and other countries the feeling
among many of the natives while the
fighting was on ranged from indifference
as to whether the whites were kicked out
or not to active aid for the Japs in kick-
ing them out. Among these Jap propa-
ganda has been at work ever since. If
there was feeling in the Japs’ favor be-
fore, it is certain that there must now be
a widespread receptive hearing for the
Jap Asia-for-the-Asiatics propaganda.
Here, there can be no doubt at all,
time is working hard for the Jap. The
longer he is left in possession of the vast
areas he has taken over the harder the
job of kicking him out is sure to be.
With manufacturing capacity also un-
disturbed, the Japs are no doubt mass-
producing millions of rifles, tommy-guns
and suchlike weapons for arming as
many willing fellow-Asiatics in the occu-
pied countries as can be organised. The
Japs’ own fighting forces are numerous
enough, by now probably equalling the
total present population of Australia,
down to babes in arms. Already, they
have overwhelming numbers as against
anything that can yet be put against
them. Fighting this as a “holding war”
means not only, as Mr. Curtin said, that
“Japan is buying cheaply the time she
requires to exploit the resources she has
acquired and to build for an onslaught
which the United Nations will find costly
to fight” ; it means also the grave possi-
bility of the Japs, given the time, build-
ing up, equipping and training an army
of fellow-Asiatics that would make even
the astronomical figures of the Russian
front look microscopic.
Even with that grave possibility ruled
out, the Japs, given the time to dig in
everywhere behind fortifications of the
kind that proved so costly to Australians
in Papua, must still be very hard to beat,
though enough better fighters would do
it. The fortifications in Papua were only
hasty constructions, underlining all the
more heavily what the Japs could do in
Burma, Malaya, China and elsewhere
with an undisturbed year or more for
the job.
And that is accepting that the Japs,
too, are going to be content to fight
a “holding war.” There is no warrant
whatever for any such assumption. On
the contrary, their tactics so far have
been the offensive everywhere. “As I
speak,” said Mr. Curtin on Australia Day,
“the enemy is assailing with all his
strength the outer fringe of islands near
the Australian mainland. If these go'we
are faced with a struggle on our own soil,
with the enemy in command of all sea
approaches.”
A defect in this warning—in the whole
of Mr. Curtin’s broadcast —is the vague-
ness, Others, among them N.S.W.
Minister for N.E.S. Heffron, took up
Mr. Curtin’s direful theme.
Mr. Heffron:
Because of the great massing of enemy
ships and men it will be almost a miracle if
Australia escapes attack.
Mr, Drakeford:
There is no evidence to show that Japan
cannot launch big-scale operations with the
Australian mainland as the objective.
Mr. H. P. Lazzarini:
The Japs are massing in the north, and
the threat to Australia was never more real.
Apart from the air of vagueness and
generality —nobody so much as men-
tioned a single island by name —other
defects could be discerned. All these
warnings came from persons of the Gov-
ernment’s color of politics. Another note
was struck by Mr. McEwen, who stated
that “the grave reports” had “no founda-
tion in any fact which has been brought
to my notice” as an Advisory War Coun-
cillor. Mr. Menzies concurred. He,
with his colleague,
had no information of such Japanese
preparations. Complacency was not
wanted, but it was a mistake to think that
Australians would thrive best on a diet of
false alarms.
Another dubious element in the warn-
ings was in the timing, which coincided
with the opening of Parliament. The
Opposition in the House, the S.A. mem-
bers excepted, is a weak-kneed bunch.
With a general election in prospect, the
advance chorus of warning, or calamity
howling, or whatever it was, could well
be calculated to turn that bunch to water.
To the ordinary run of the public it
was an extraordinary thing that, with
these matters of political expediency
pending, the invasion chorus should have
so suddenly broken out just when it did
and all from the one side. The result
was that, instead of Mr. Curtin’s no
doubt honest warnings putting the
general run of people eagerly on their
toes, all that happened was a further
spread of outright cynicism. The timing,
in fact, was just a little too good from
the Government standpoint. The bulk o
Australians are of the same mind as Mr.
Curtin concerning the paramount im-
portance of the Pacific front, and it looks
also as if more and more Americans are
coming to this way of thinking. u
Mr. Curtin does neither himself nor this
important issue any good with fearsome
warnings timed to the minute from 1
own political point of view and then
silence as soon as the political atmospher
has cleared.
If ever there was sound reason toi &
combined national Government it is ®
this evident mixing of Australia s tat
with political expediency. Were
national Government in being the
would be no cause to suspect politics m
every statement on impending disaster.


PLAIN ENGLISH
The P.M. Spills Some Beans.
The most staggering bit of Mr. Curtin’s
Militia Hopscotch Bill speech passed
practically unnoticed. Said the P.M.:
• After the last war the leaders of the
A.I.F. made a recommendation to the
Government of the day that an essential
part of the preparations for the defence
of Australia against Japanese aggression
was the amendment of the Defence Act.
No Government has since seen ht to act on
this advice.
The “Government of the day” was
not a Labor Government. In fairness to
himself and the party he leads, and as a
smack in the other eye for the other
crowd, Mr. Curtin should follow up this
remarkable revelation by stating exactly
when he first heard of the happening.
Was it the night before, the year before,
or when?
The importance of the date is in re-
lation to the performance of Mr. Curtin
and his party on defence. It relates to
the statements made by Mr. Curtin when
he was helping Mr. Dedman into Par-
liament. Extraordinary statements, those,
in view of what Mr. Curtin is now pre-
pared to say—and do. It relates also to
statements made by Mr. Curtin and
chorus when the Menzies Government
was bringing in the new A.I.F. and re-
introducing militia training through a
wordily camouflaged back door—doing
so that way because of nothing else but
the vociferous opposition of Messrs, Cur-
tin and co.
But above all it relates to what the
Scullin Government, to which Mr. Cur-
tin belonged, did about Australia’s de-
fence in 1929. It cannot be said of any
other Government that it took action to
wreck Australia’s defence system. That
can be said of the only Labor Govern-
ment in office between the wars. Is it
to be believed that it was ignorant of that
advice given by A.I.F. leaders? Its
action in any case was lamentable ; if
it was aware of that advice when it acted
then its action was doubly shameful.
And unless knowledge of the advice is
something only now acquired by Messrs.
Curtin and co., then their past words and
acts are doubly shameful, too.
That the advice was given and ignored
makes the strongest argument so far ad-
vanced for setting up Australia’s defence
system above the reach of any possible
meddling bunch of temporary politicians.
Otherwise, nothing is surer than that the
experienced advice of the present mili-
tary leaders will also in due course be
ignored on the first occasion that this
becomes ! politically expedient.
Not Communism-—Patriotism.
For Communists and fellow-travellers
there is an ominous note in the
news from Russia, inspiriting as it is to
plain people whose feelings were ex-
pressed by Charles Fox in the words
“The defeat of armies of invaders always
gives me the greatest satisfaction when
reading history.”
No less a person than Mr. Blunden,
the “Daily Telegraph’s” Roving Reporter,
has placed it on record that “Soviet mili-
tary policy has been reorientated towards
consolidating Red Army organisation and
morale in terms of patriotic feeling for
Russia, its military history, its army and
its leadership.” A significant and per-
haps despairing admission, for Mr. Blun-
den has hitherto been one of those writ-
ing boys who combine a lordly contempt
for things British and Australian with
complete servility, utter abjectness, in
their attitude to “the Workers’ Republic.”
Napoleon established his Legion of
Honor with the deliberate intention of
breaking with the Revolution. Stalin has
established the Orders of Suvorov and
Kutusov, two Czarist heroes of the wars
against that Revolution, and Mr. Blun-
den confesses that they are highly prized.
He testifies also that epaulets, abandoned
25 years ago as “counter-revolutionary,”
have come in again—
broad, flat, cloth shoulder - pieces em-
broidered in gold thread, with gold stars
for rank, and with distinguishing marks for
each branch of the service.
There are new uniforms, too. A notable
feature is the high upstanding collar, on
which is embroidered gold or colored thread,
marking rank, and cord. And officers’
coats are carefully waisted.
Worst of all, “political commissars
were abolished last September.”
Here Mr. Blunden is a little out in his
chronology ; the decree abolishing com-
missars was issued on October 10. London
“Times” had an article on the subject.
It welcomed the abolition of “the dual
control which made for friction and in-
terfered with discipline.”
In every unit there are two authorities,
the military commander and the political
commissar, the dual system was regarded
as a political necessity in the early days of
the Soviet system, but its drawbacks soon
showed and became very evident during
the Finnish war. After that war it was
abolished. In the summer of 1941 it
was revived
Hence, no doubt, some of the early
defeats, for no force could do its best
with two sets of commanders, from the
army group to the platoon. It is signi-
ficant that the great period of success
began less than six weeks after the com-
missars were sent about their business.
This necessary reform, plus the vast sup-
plies of superior weapons furnished by
Britain and the U.S.A. (at serious cost in
ships and seamen’s lives), the very impor-
tant diversion in French Africa and the
swift adaptation to Russian conditions of
the tremendous bombardment which sig-
nalled the opening of the campaign that
broke Rommel are unquestionable factors
in the great change which has come over
the scene in South Russia. Together, of
course, with the effects of Nazi brutality,
which, as the “Times” put it, “has united
all Russians, whatever their former sym-
pathies may have been, in a common
fervor of Russian patriotism.”
Not Communism or world-revolution,
but Russian patriotism. A patriotism as
sturdy and a generosity unsurpassed have
been shown by “capitalistic” Britain.
Perhaps in recognition of the strength,
unity and magnanimity which Britain and
America have exhibited the Russian
leaders will decide that Communist
organisations in English-speaking coun-
tries are now merely nasty and outworn
impediments to a very necessary common
understanding.
Bombers and Builders.
“A hidden mistake may cost a brave
man his life.” That’s the slogan 10,000
Australians are working to in the mak-
ing of Beaufort bombers, fast, heavily-
armed twin-engined ’planes which can
be used for bombing, torpedo work and
reconnaissance, and which can turn and
twist in the skies as though they were
fighters.
And the 10,000, though only a small
percentage are what would have been
called skilled workers a couple of years
ago, obviously have that slogan in their
hearts, along with their pride in the
splendid machine they are turning out.
On a lour of an airframe plant, an
engine plant where Australians are turn-
ing out exact replicas of the American
1200-h.p. Pratt and Whitney engines from
all-Australian material, and an assembly
plant where the completed machine
finally passes to the test pilots to be mer-
cilessly put through its paces, this pride
and care were obvious in the bearing of
the workers, men, women and boys.
They have a right to that pride. These
Australian factories made their first
bomber, from plan to finished machine,
in two years. No new bomber has ever
been built in that time in Britain, Canada
or U.S.A, Now, of course, the Beauforts
are coming off the assembly lines at a
steadily-increasing tempo. Exact num-
bers can’t be given, but it can be said
that this country is building up a power-
ful force of deadly aerial weapons that
can reinforce the mainland defences at
any spot within 24 hours. Any enemy
that tries to get ships through them will
know all about it before he’s finished.
The performance of the Beaufort
outfit shows that the Australian worker
is among the world’s best. A rapid
learner and willing, he or she goes at the
job cheerfully, and to see them hard at
it would be good medicine for Jeremiahs.
And what is being done in the Beaufort
factories is being repeated in tank and
gun plants, in shipyards and in all the
multitude of munitions works that have
grown up in this country.
It means that, despite the few miser-
able work-stoppers, and despite labor-
unionism which has a tendency to go
off its head, the workers, given half
a chance, will do all that is asked of
them. It also means that the country’s
future after the war is already upon it.
When peace comes the workers in all
theSe great P lants wili be eager to go on
working. That, with all its implications,
is a problem, but one no greater than
the conversion of industry from a peace
basis t 0 a war basis - The br ains, initia-
tiVe, courage and faith that went into the
Beauforts will be available for recon-
version and for the general task of re-
patriation. They will master both if
ideologists and Utopians are shoved out
of the way.
Exploiting Sorrow.
Next-of-kin of Australian fighting men
lost in the defence of their country are re-
ceiving letters from a concern calling itself
“The Liverpool Press,” of 243 Collins-
street, Melbourne. They begin by quot-
ing the soldier’s number and name and
State, and assert that “the name has been
handed to us as being worthy of inclu-
sion in an historical work which we now
have in the course of preparation.”
It is then suggested that the lost man’s
gallantry has inspired the Liverpool Press
to include him in the work, Australia in
Action, which “will form a comprehen-
sive and authoritative history of our fight-
ing forces.” The L.P. asks for particu-
lars, goes on to talk of the quality of
the product, and announces that a
“special presentation copy” will be posted
immediately on publication. But
As Volume One containing the report
of the action which led to the death of the
above man is now nearing completion, we
would be indeed grateful if you would let
us have the particulars asked for by return
post.
Next-of-kin are then invited to send
£1 10s. “for the service rendered.” One
person thus canvassed was the widow of
a soldier accidentally shot in Australia.
There is only one suitable place for
ghouls who exploit the love and sorrow
of those whose men are no more. If the
present law is defective, no doubt Dr.
Evatt will have it rectified so that ghouls
may be sent there.
NO LIMITED LIABILITY OVER THERE.
“Sorry we had to leave you out, Kiwi.”
"That’s all right, Mr. Curtin; and don’t drop your bundle. If you’re attacked New Zealand’ll come in fighting."


Queensland
Insurance Go.
Ltd.
Head Office:
Pitt & Bridge Streets,
Sydney.
The Largest
Australian Company
Transacting
Fire, Marine, Accident, House*
holders’ Comprehensive, Workers’
Compensation, Boiler Explosion,
Machinery Breakdown, Aviation,
etc.
THE FI Fr.TROi.YTIC REFINING &TSMELTING COMPANY
OF AUSTRALIA PROPRIETARY, LIMITED.
WORKS: PORT KEMBLA, NSW.
Purchasers of all Copper and Gold-bearing Materials
360 Collins Street, MELBOURNE.
M 4383.
25 O’Connell Street, SYDNEY
86371
DOAN’S
OINTMENT
The well-known remedy for
Piles, Eczema, and Skin Irri-
tation. ,
If you suffer from any form ot
Piles or Irritating Skin trouble
use
DOAN’S OINTMENT
Recommended the world over.
Sold by Chemists and
Storekeepers Everywhere.
Foster-McClellan Co.,
Proprietors,
15 Hamilton St., Sydney.
POLITICAL POINTS
Curtin’s speech on his Militia Hop-
scotch Bill was “appalling” to Marr.
Fadden’s speech attacking the bill for
20 mftiutes and closing with the intima-
tion that he would vote for the cursed
thing was, to Coles, “the most insincere
address I ever heard in my life.” Unjust,
for Artie ran true to form. He always
begins his criticisms of the Government
like a lion and closes them like a lamb,
generally with an “admittedly, however,”
in the middle. Expediency is his all-in-
all ; and it is the same with the combi-
nation behind him. Archie Cameron,
whom Artie succeeded as leader of the
Country party, has an old-fashioned pref-
erence for principle. That’s what makes
him stand out from the herd.
“Call Me Artie” Fadden in defence
of the chaps who call him Artie;
There is not a man in Parliament who
does not conscientiously desire to serve
Australia.
Then it’s conscience that makes political
cowards of so many of them.
The one great objection to the Com-
monwealth Powers Bill is that it would
prolong the existence of the Six Excres-
cences till the nineteen-fifties at least. All
the Excrescences think they should be
perpetual, so there was delight among
them when the measure was defeated in
the Leg. Council at Hobart. The deed
was done by ten (10) members represent-
ing fully 20,000 electors. In Britain,
South Africa and Maoriland such an
exhibition of provincial impudence would
be impossible.
N.S.W. Labor pledges of loyalty to the
Curtin militia-service “policy” have now
to be in by February 18. A fortnight’s
extension was decided upon after the
Lang group had failed to get the loyalty-
pledge resolution dished. Thereupon the
winners summoned Lang to appear before
their “disputes committee” and justify his
anti-Curtin articles, and the Big Fellow
hastily announced that he would sign the
loyalty pledge and advise his supporters
to do likewise. In short, he is “squibbing.’
But then almost everybody at Canberra
is “squibbing” except the Archie Cameron
group and Coles,
It was incongruous to read in the same
week (1) that weight of opinion leaned
to 30 as the age-limit for front-line
fighters and (2) that posthumous V.Cs.
had been conferred on a South Austra-
lian aged 39 and a Westralian aged 40.
Both had been in everything with the
Ninth Division and their citations show
that two gamer or fitter men never
breathed.
Replying to the A.W.U. convention’s
offer of “loyalty and co-operation,”
Curtin sent a very long telegram, closing
with the words “I know that Australia’s
greatest union, whose motto is ‘Soli-
darity,’ will set an example in unity
which, I pray, will mark the whole Labor
movement.” Then the convention passed
a resolution “expressing opposition to
conscription for military service outside
Australia,” and pledging itself to “work
for the rescission of the A.L.P. confer-
ence decision at the earliest opportunity.”
Picked out of the ether from an A.B.C.
short-wave broadcast:
He hates' injustice. His main charac-
teristics are sincerity and honesty of pur-
pose. He has a profound knowledge of
industrial sociology A plain militant by
temperament and a collectivist by creed.
It was obvious that the prodigy could
only be a Federal Minister. It was —
E. J. Holloway: “poor old Holloway”
to S. M. Bruce.
The position in Yugoslavia, as stated in
the “Nation,” “America’s leading Liberal
weekly since 1865”:
A quits considerable civil war is going
on. General Michailovich, who for some
months has done little fighting against the
Axis, has, according to the New York
“Times,” been waging a six months’ battle
against 30,000 partisans, in whose fate
Moscow is very far from being uninter-
ested. While Michailovich is not blameless,
the charge that he acts in calculated collu-
sion with Nedic, the Serbian Quisling, is un-
founded, though Nedic’s and Michailovich’s
forces made simultaneous moves against
the partisans. The presence of Communists
in the partisan movement is not the real
issue. The issue is a demand for a demo-
cratic administration, a demand resented
by the far-off royal Government and its
chief representative in Yugoslavia. On the
other hand, the Kremlin has been making
pan-Slavist propaganda with the probable
intention of organising a Russian-Balkan
defensive bloc after the war.
The writer, one Bates, calls upon some-
one to rise up and do something about
it, Roosevelt preferred.
Joseph Chamberlain Evans is one of
the four clerks concerned in the Allied
Works Council inquiry, which looks like
dragging on till 1944. The one thing
Tory about him is the name. Asked
whether he had been in league with
young Mr. Hughes, of the alleged State
Labor party, to secure Communist con-
trol of the Clerks’ Union, Joseph Cham-
“THE FIGHT IS ON ” AT CANBERRA.
berlain scornfully denied the impeach-
ment, saying that young Mr. Hughes
eould never be the Communist he was.
“Hughes,” he went on, “is the same
color as his union ticket, yellow; and
the Communist color is red.” Some of
these “advanced” worthies do love one
another.
The two Flynns have disappeared from
front pages. Ed has withdrawn his nomi-
nation as Minister to Australia, and Errol
has been acquitted of the charges brought
against him by two bold little brats, one
of whom artlessly admitted that another
“gentleman” in the case had called her
“his little strumpet”—by which she
thought he meant a sort of muffin. If
Australians were given the choice, they
would much rather have Ed than Errol.
The elder Flynn, whatever his faults—
and nothing has been proved against him
—has not disowned his country nor
posed as a hero of imaginary adventures,
such as those mordantly chronicled in the
Errol Flynn article Frank Clune wrote
for The Bulletin,
Perhaps because of his policies, the
writing boys are exceptionally kind to
Dr. J. Graham Drew, of Sydney, but
one of them overdid it in referring to
the gentleman’s get-up (with portrait) on
hot days.
You won’t find the Metropolitan Medi- ,
cal Officer of Health sweltering in thick
serge and thick collars. He wears his
white or blue Palm Beach suit. Dr. Drew
says “There is no need to suffer discom-
fort by wearing heavy clothes. A soft
collar and a thin suit, something like my
Palm Beach outfit, make all the difference.
It would also be sensible to adopt shorts
and an open-necked shirt.”
Such things require coupons and also
Palm Beach incomes. There was no men-
tion of Palm Beach incomes.
This country, according to Curtin, has
almost reached the limits of man-power.
Yet every minor election brings out a
bunch of Labor candidates. For the
Brisbane City Council contests ‘Labor
intends to have candidates in practically
all the 20 wards.” Since every candi-
date must have a committee the amount
of man-power used is worth the P.M. s
attention, as well as the U.A.P. fighting
fund.
Just when the Russians were demon-
strating that they were independent of
Anglo-American war materials Beaver-
brook bobbed up in the Lords with a
demand for lots more immediately. The
noble associate of Communists had the
face to assert that Britain’s contributions
to Russia had been “parsimonious.”
The official reply was that to Dec. 31
they amounted to 2974 tanks and more
than that number of ’planes. Beaver-
brook once ran an Empire Freetrade
movement, but he never seems to think
of the Empire now.
Here it is once more —“Parliament is
what the people make it,” declared the
Deputy Premier of Tasmania at an
A.N.A. function. Then every time the
people look at their handiwork they
should hold a day of national mourning.
Members of the A.C.T.U. and the
A.W.U. are to go to a London trade-
union conference, all expenses paid by
the taxpayer. Members of Parliament are
booked for another London conference
—of a Parliamentary association in this
case —all expenses paid by the taxpayer
and salaries as usual. Members of the
Tasmanian Government are to ask West-
minster in person to discipline their little
Leg. Council. So the waste of money,
time and man-power goes on.
The good old honest dyed-in-the-wool
Australian union leader is beginning to
find some of the latter-day boys too much
for him. Thus a former president of the
Sydney Milk and Ice Carters’ Union,
resigning from the Milk Industry Con-
ciliation Board:
When a body of men with more than a
thousand mates at the war are prepared to
leave workers’ wives and children without
milk and deliberately cause wastage of
more than 1500 gallons of milk 1 feel
that they do not want conciliation.
His name is Guest, and he is a welcome
Guest. Australia could do with a lot
more of his kind.
Lang’s new Conscription Barometer is
very like the old one, the only noticeable
difference being that Beasley and his
West Sydney A.L.P. Council figure
among the conscriptionists. Federal
members still labelled as antis are Ward,
Rosevear, Mulcahy, Sheehan, Watkins,
Breen and Falstein. None of them will
dare to vote against the Militia Hop-
scotch Bill, and that, according to Lang,
represents conscription of the deepest
dye.
Replying to Yeates, a pertinacious
critic of the Labor Government at Can-
berra and Brisbane, Premier Cooper said
that “reversion to Saturday-morning busi-
ness in the public service generally would
not be conducive to efficiency.” Get that,
Diggers? “Not conducive to efficiency”!
But don’t, for heaven’s sake, try to pro-
mote your efficiency by asking for two
days off every week.
Bond, the veteran Labor M.L.A. for
Port Fairy-Glenelg (Vic.), is retiring for
a very unusual reason —unable to get
labor for his dairy farm, he will have
to do the work himself. Nothing like
this ever happens in the N.S.W. Labor
party. There are 55 N.S.W. Labor
Assemblymen, many of military age.
Some of the older members served in
the first A.1.F., one with great distinc-
tion. None of the younger men has
heard a shot fired in this war.
No sooner had Canberra appointed a
Director of Post-war Reconstruction than
Sydney announced the setting-up of a
Water and Soil Reconstruction Com-
mittee to “recommend the order for
undertaking works under a post-war re-
construction plan.” The McKell State
already has an irrigation commission,
a soil-conservation service and soil
chemistry and agrostology branches in
its Department of Agriculture.
U.A.P. —Utterly Abject Party.
Maoriland maritime labor gets honor-
able mention in a report issued from the
New York office of the International
Transport Workers’ Federation. For
eleven months of 1942, it is stated, work-
ing hours lost amounted to less than one-
half of 1 per cent., and average time of
ships in port was reduced from 35.7
days to 15.4 days. At Murmansk, Russia,
the report says, “the average cargo-load
handled by a longshoreman” increased
from three tons a day in January to
nine tons a day in June. The only men-
tion of Australia is that “nearly all Aus-
tralian ports are short of canteens and
restaurants, sanitary arrangements and
wharf shelters; where such facilities
exist they are of a primitive standard.”
And this after 52 years of Labor poli-
tics.
Australia has still to put up with the
impertinences of Strabolgi, the Labor
peer who wrote that “What’s Wrong with
the British Army?” article for an Ameri-
can magazine just before the soldiers of
Alexander and Montgomery showed there
was nothing wrong with it or its leader-
ship, and who was threatened with a
ducking by Lord Lovatt if he came
spreading his poisonous slanders among
the commandos. Strabolgi has dis-
covered that “it took the Australians and
Americans seven weeks to reduce the
Jap defences at Buna, although they had
tanks, heavy artillery and air and naval
ascendancy.” Naval ascendancy they
never had, as Curtin has pointed out.
But a vital fact matters nothing to Stra-
bolgi when he is trying to piece together
his exploded reputation as art authority
on the war.
The scarcity of wine for sale over the
counter —there have never been vaster
quantities in cellars —has led to a particu-
larly impudent form of profiteering. Bulk
wine, previously sold at 2s. 9d. or 3s. a
quart, is poured into 260 z. bottles for
which 4s. is demanded and got —more
than the price of a good branded wine.
Prof. Copland should get on the track
of this swindle, which may do a worth-
while industry infinite harm. Cancel-
lation of the license is the obvious penalty
for a repeated offence.
“S.M.H.” says that the Government
is completely mystifying the public about
the nature of its taxation proposals.
This is hardly to be wondered at, since
the Government is itself mystified by the
financial muddle into which it has got
itself.
D’Alton, Premier Cosgrove’s deputy in
Tasmania, has had a vision of Tasmania
in 1973
as a terminal point for world air travel,
with feeder ’planes radiating to all parts ot
the State from a central aerodrome.
And all, presumably, controlled by a
Government transport board and com-
pelled to carry politicians on the nod.


d
Gold Medal
SHERRY
PERSONAL ITEMS
Previously reported missing and now
listed p.o.w. in Java, Lieutenant-Colonel
W. S. Kent Hughes, M.L.A., formerly
Deputy-Leader of the Victorian U.A.P.
He caused a storm in Melbourne in 1934
by saying in the House that he was a
“Fascist without a shirt.” This meant
only that he had unpopular views about
women ; he believed they should get out
of industry and back to the home. One
woman tartly retorted in the press:
“What would Ido then? Moon about
all day and hope that one night a week
someone might ask me to the pictures?”
Since Dec. 7, 1941, things have
changed in Melbourne, and the impris-
oned M.L.A. would now hardly recog-
nise his native city. He was the 1914
Rhodes scholar, won an M.C. in the
last war and was one of Melbourne’s
leading athletes.
First member of the Maori race to be
nominated for a cadetship at Duntroon
is Bruce Poananga, of Rangiotu. He
was educated at the Palmerston North
Boys’ High School, where he matricu-
lated. A fine all-round athlete, he cap-
tained the first Rugby fifteen and first
cricket eleven. He won the dux ludorum
cup in 1941. At present he’s training
for the Air Force at a South Island
station.
“Bill O’C.”: The late Canon Bleby,
of Adelaide, whom The B. recently
obituansed with the one fact that he
held the record for the number of mar-
riages celebrated in his church, was
worthy of notice for something else. On
account of his erudition in ecclesiastical
law and practice he was generally recog-
nised by his fellow-churchmen as “the
brains of the Synod.” But he carried his
knowledge and a good fund of energy
in a frail, ascetic-looking body which one
might miss altogether if meeting him side-
ways. Hence a mild jest which survives
him. Two regular club billiard players,
in the habit of accompanying their play
with a running fire of comment, once put
it thus: —A; “There you are, Jimmy;
I’ve left you a nice cannon.” B (study-
ing it): “Very nice, but also extremely
thin; in fact, a cannon Bleby.”
Due for his 81st birthday this month,
James Barrett, K.8.E., C. 8., C.M.G..
M.D., M.S., F.R.C.S., LI.D., C.M.Z.S.,
ex-Chancellor of Melbourne University,
local G.O.M. of the sawbones profession
and holder of the local record for sitting
on committees. He’s president of 11,
vice-president of two, chairman of seven,
hon. sec. of three and a member of 28
at time of writing. He’s also a Fellow of
the R.A.C. of Surgeons and of the Zoo-
logical Society of London. In the last
war he was an A.A.M.C. lieutenant-
colonel, consulting oculist and aurist to
the troops in Egypt and later Director of
the A.M.C. there. In this war he’s in
retirement, if it can be called retirement,
but he wields a trenchant pen in the cause
of alien doctors and of his pet, the Bush
Nursing Service. A symphony concert is
incomplete without his tall, bulky, stoop-
ing figure. Less energetic men might
wonder how he finds time to do it all,
but a Bulletin man who was hurrying
to an art show once met him hastening in
the opposite direction. “I thought Sir
James was billed to open your show,”
said the critic to the manageress of the
exhibition. “So he was,” said the lady.
“Well, he must have forgotten it. I’m
only five minutes late and I saw him a
minute ago travelling north.” “Oh, he’s
been and gone,” said the lady. “Now
he’s probably opening another exhibi-
tion.”
An ad. writer:
Every Bulletin reader knows the work of
Francis John Weyman, dead at 76 in Mel-
bourne It was he who selected the photo-
graphs of old English buildings and wrote the
descriptions which figure in the Seppelts ads.
on this journal’s cover. The son of a Black-
pool (Eng.) parson, he studied law first, then
passed into journalism in Ceylon and later in
Westralia and Melbourne, where he edited the
“Sporting Globe’s ” forerunner the “Winner.”
But his real obsession was his passionate love
of the relics of a bygone culture which the
Nazis were beginning to wipe off the face of
England. In his descriptions he combined
scholarship with deep feeling. He knew most
of the places he described and was familiar
as a youth with every bit of Shakspeare’s and
Dr. Johnson’s London.
111-health having forced Monsignor
Nevin to take things a bit easier, the
presidency of St. Patrick’s College, Manly
(N.S.W.), has been taken over by Dr.
J. Madden. A native of Ipswich (Q.),
Dr. Madden studied at the college, and
has been back there since 1940. He
holds doctorates of divinity and philoso-
phy and is an M.A.
A little ceremony out of the ordinary
run of things happened in the Nether-
lands Services Canteen in Sydney when
Netherlands Consul-General J. B. D.
Pennink, acting for Queen Wilhelmina,
decorated Captain J. J. van der Starre
with the Kruis van Verdienste. It was
the first ceremony of the kind in Aus-
tralia. Captain van der Starre com-
manded a 3000-ton ship which was
attacked by several Jap subs, off the Java
coast, and, though many of the crew were
wounded by gunfire from the subs., he
managed to get the ship out of it.
(Modelled by [?]rith.)
CAMERON, OF SOUTH AUSTRALIA (AND
CANBERRA ).
“I would say to any electorate that wanted me to accept
this bill [the. Militia Hopscotch Bill ] that I would not repre-
sent it in this Parliament. Therefore, I want to move an
amendment.”
Reported p.o.w. in Malaya, Captain
T. W. Mitchell, the skier. Captain
Mitchell comes from Twong Hill,
Corryong (Vic.), where he bred horses
as well known on the racing track as
he was on the snow. His wife is a
daughter of General Harry Chauvel.
Archibald Prize winner William Dargie
has had a remarkable career. Now 30,
he somehow or other missed being swept
into the “modern” whirlpool, and his first
exhibition started him on the way to
commissioned portrait painting, which
usually comes late in the life of a painter.
Inside a few years he has won a mort of
prizes—the Archibald twice in successive
years; the Bendigo Prize for portraits
in 1940 and 1942, and the Geelong Prize
in 1940.
“Tas.”: I see that you have “dug up”
all the No. 1 Diggers except Darwin and
Western Australia. The former is DXI
John Albert McNulty (enlisted on
20/10/’39), now a captain of artillery.
Before the war he was with the Depart-
ment of the Interior.
Directorship of Maoriland’s Econo-
mic Stabilisation Commission has gone
to Bernard Carl Ashwin, Secretary to
the Treasury. He’s a Pareora product
who looks young but is old enough to
have served in the 1914-18 war and had
about a quarter of a century’s experience
of the civil service. He took a M.Com.
degree in 1925, early in his Treasury
career, and has been climbing ever since.
Chairman of the commission is Arthur
Telford Donnelly, Christchurch lawyer
and chairman of the Bank of New Zea-
land for the last five years.
Back in Australia after 21 years in
Uncle Sam’s country. Captain Garnet T.
Trainor. He holds that military rank in
the American — not the Australian —
Army, though he held rank in the Aus-
tralian Flying Force in the last war.
Meeting an American girl when on leave
in Paris, he married her and set up house
in New York. There he helped to form
the Anzac Division of the British War
Relief Society, which has grown from
a “bunch of homesick Aussies and New
Zealanders who liked to get together”, to
an organisation which has collected thou-
sands for the Australian Red Cross and
Comforts, as well as mobile canteens,
dental and medical units and a fleet of
ambulances. Capt. Trainor has already
seen service with the American Army in
the South-west Pacific.
Now at 24 in command ,of a sub.,
Lieutenant lan
Stewart Mclntosh,
of Prospect (S.A.),
was born in Mel-
bourne, went to
Geelong Grammar
and entered the
R.N. as a cadet at
17. He got an
M.B.E. in 1941 for
taking a boatload
of survivors from
the torpedoed
Britannia across
1530 miles of the
Atlantic to Brazil.
The boat started
with 82, was 23
days at sea, short
of water and food,
and only 36 sur-
vived. Of the 18
Europeans that set
out, five lived.
Recovered from
that, Mclntosh
went as first lieu-
tenant on the fam-
ous Thrasher,
picked up a D.S.C.
and was later given
his present com-
mand.
F 1 yin g- Officer
Peter John Gibbes,
now holding the
D.F.C. for fine war
exploits, was known
to most travellers
between Melbourne
and Sydney when
he handled the
controls of civil
airline ’planes in
peace-time. War performance includes
bombing at mast-height an armed Japa-
nese wireless ship in Malaya ; a dashing
flight from Palembang, Sumatra, to
Singapore, during which he made a sketch
under shellfire of enemy naval disposi-
tions ; and a run on terra firma to get
into his ’plane and start it with Japanese
machine-gunners all round him. He
learnt flying at Essendon (Vic.), then
joined the Australian National Airways.
Alfred R. Code, Director of Armored
Fighting Vehicles Production, is exceed-
ingly busy these days, but he found
time to look proud of himself last week
when the story of Australia’s cruiser
tanks was let loose. These jobs are fast
and powerful, and the equal of anything
comparable in the world. They have
not been named yet, and Bulletin
readers are invited to submit suggestions,
preferably an abo. name meaning thunder
and lightning. A brilliant mechanical
and automotive engineer as well as ad-
ministrator, Code holds a string of tech-
nical degrees and is a Bachelor of Com-
merce of Melbourne Uni. He’s also in
most engineering institutions worth being
in—Soc. of Auto. Engineers (U.S.A.),
Inst, of Mech. Engineers, Inst, of Petro-
leum Technologists and Inst, of Auto.
Engineers (Lond.), a past president and
present councillor of the Australian insti-
tute. He has written scores of articles,
pamphlets and papers on engineering,
and he had a hand in establishing the
automotive and aeronautical engineering
course at Melbourne Tech. He trans-
lates from French and German engineer-
ing literature; Hutchinson’s agreed to
publish his translation of the Life of
Rudolph Diesel just before the war. Code
has been to U.S.A. studying tank-making
and convincing Americans that Austra-
hans, given the necessary tools, could
make tanks. Melbourne-born, he is a
product of that city’s Junior and Senior
Tech., Swinburne Tech, and University,
and was chief automotive engineer and
technical adviser to Vacuum Oil when
the war arrived. He’s 42.
“Nabawa Joe” remembers;
The passing of George Walker, who was
almost the doyen of wheat agents in Australia,
represents a loss to the industry. For well
over 30 years he was liable to bob up any-
where in the wheatbelt, and growers had
learned to place faith in him and his works.
Few men south of the Line knew as much
about world wheat economy as the quiet little
man with the fair moustache, and he made it
a point of letting the farmers in on world
movements likely to affect their industry. He
did fine practical work as a councillor of the
Sydney R.A.S., particularly in its field-wheat
contests, which resulted in stepping up the
State average yield from about eight bushels to
bushels. He was also chairman of the
council of N.S.W. Show Societies and senior
trustee of the Farrer Memorial Trust. There
are countless stories of his humor. He and an
R.A.S. wheat party were bogged out in the
wheatbelt and the following wire was dispatched
to Sydney: “Bogged and blankered at Bogga-
bri; please send hatful of gravel.”
Wellington (M.L.) Jewry has cele-
brated its hundredth birthday. The
present Rabbi is Solomon Katz, who
spent a great part of his life watching
over Jewish spiritual welfare in the
United States. He became Rabbi in
Wellington in 1931.
Into the silence:
At 68, Percy L. Halsted, of Dunedin (M.L.).
A manager of the D.I.C. and a director of
Halienstein Bros., firms engaged in clothing,
he amassed bawbees and Dunedin benefited
thereby, particularly in art. A connoisseur,
he gathered a rich collection himself and made
many gifts of art works to Dunedin Gallery.
Veteran businessman W. A. Hughes, of Adel-
aide, who retired from South British Insurance
as far back as 1920. It took him over long
ago with an old Adelaide fire and marine
insurance co. Hughes became manager of
the South British in Perth and in Adelaide in
turn, A son is general manager in Sydney of
the-Union Society of Canton.
At 85, Sam Saunders, one of M.L.’s oldest
Inky Wayfarers. A son of Alf Saunders, one-
time superintendent of Nelson Province, M.P.
for various Canterbury seats and author of a
history of M.L., Sam edited the Ashburton
“Guardian” and later the Lyttelton “Times.”
In Melbourne, following on an operation and
a heat-wave, Right Rev. Robert Snowden Hay,
Bishop of Tasmania since 1919 and one of
Australia’s frankest ecclesiastics. Born in 1867
at Bishop Auckland, Durham (Eng.), and
educated at the University of Durham, he was
a London schoolmaster until he came to Aus-
tralia in 1897 and ministered in Queensland,
N.S.W. and the Apple Island.
William J. Masson (in Adelaide, at 70) was
for many years with the Bank of Adelaide in
London, having a great reputation with S.A.
visitors, and especially with the Diggers of
1914-18. In 1922 he was promoted to Ade-
laide as manager at h.q., and when he retired
in 1939 he had had about 12 years as g.m.
In Sydney, at 90, knight Kelso King, man-
aging director of Mercantile Mutual Insurance
and Australian General Insurance ; chairman
of directors of Mort’s Dock; director of
Colonial Mutual and a string of other con-
cerns ; Boy Scouts’ Assoc, chairman ; presi-
dent of the St. John Ambulance Assoc. ; chair-
man of the Walter and Eliza Hall Trust ;
member of a host of institutions, including
King’s School, Trinity Grammar, Canberra
Grammar and the A.J.C. For his outstanding
public service on these lines he was made K.B.
in 1929. A Sydneysider, born in Liverpool-
street, he started out as a jackeroo in Queens-
land, but soon moved into banking and business.
Frank A. Davenport, one of Sydney’s oldest
and tallest practising solicitors. He was admitted
in 1885. His eldest son, who was his partner
in the firm, was killed in the last war.
At Christchurch (M.L.), Cyrus J. Williams,
80, for quarter of a century engineer to the
Lyttelton Harbor Board. Born in Sydney and
educated at Grammar, he was harbor engineer
in Townsville and Brisbane and also had some
years as a private consultant before he crossed
the Tasman in 1902. During his Lyttelton
tenure he found his impartiality as a public ser-
vant severely strained by various campaigns
to scrap Lyttelton as a port and build a new
one on the Christchurch side of the port hills,
but played a straight bat throughout.
In Sydney, Robert James Roy, 66, general
president of the National Union of Railwaymen.
Irish-born, he came to Australia as a child.
He’d had 20 years’ service with N.S.W. Rail-
ways when he retired in 1936. He came out
of retirement to take a war job, and while
working on this met with the injuries that
caused his death.


Society
"AND IT'S PRINTED
WITH WIMBLE'S INKS"
“V. Ouse”: The middle-aged flapper
on our tram was full of indignation.
“These dreadful Labor people,” she told
her friend, “are prejudiced. I never be-
lieved those things about him. A couple
of silly bits of girls. Aren’t men hor-
rible? Now we shan’t see him at all.”
And she pointed to a headline in a paper
being read by another passenger. It ran:
“Flynn Declines Australian Post.”
“Bo”: One of the most effective screen
slaps at the American defending attorney
who pulls sob-stuff was made in “Roxie
Hart.” Jerry Geisler, Errol Flynn’s
attorney, seems to come up to standard,
but it was the prosecuting attorney in the
case who pumped up pathos. Paint-
ing for the jury a harrowing word-pic-
ture of one of the “victims” of the “great
glamor boy of the screen,” he referred to
a 16-year-old complainant as “this healthy,
happy girl with normal instincts.” That
was after the defence had produced evi-
dence that the lass had careered through
"So I took in a double reef and lashed 'em amidships with a fathom o'
spun yarn!"
a morgue playfully whipping shrouds off
corpses and had occupied a middle-aged
airman’s flat.
* * * *
“Seal Tee”: One of the things that
struck me when enlisting men for the
R.A.A.F. was the number who could
speak foreign languages. Considering
Australia’s isolation and the lack of
necessity to know another language the
ratio is interestingly high. French and
German predominate, with Italian well
up the list. Japanese, mostly learnt
for commercial purposes, is also fairly
well known and is met with in unex-
pected places. Surprises, however, were
Norwegian, Spanish and Russian. Dutch,
which one would expect to have quite
a few adepts because of the proximity
of the East Indies, is very rarely met
with. To cater for this collection or
linguists there are four private colleges
in Melbourne that teach nothing but lan-
guages, while every Australian university
has courses in several languages. The
Adelaide Circulating Library lends books
in Italian and French, and both Mel-
bourne and Sydney have lending libraries
which deal exclusively in foreign-language
books.
* * * *
“X.S.”: Chief Commissioner Duncan,
of Melbourne, has come out with the
original notion of having citizens who
are brought before the Drunks’ Court
photographed while on the way there
under escort and shown their portraits
the morning after. The idea could be
extended. When a couple of Parliamen-
tary heroes get emotional in the House
and one calls the other a fifth-columnist
and the abused one jumps up and invites
his critic to come * outside, knowing per-
fectly well that they will be separated by
their friends before they do any injury
to one another, a cinematograph opera-
tor should be in attendance to film the
proceedings. This moving picture should
then be shown on every screen in the
country after the latest war films from
up north.
* * * *
“T. McN.”: The most noticeable thing
about the youth in beautifully-cut khaki
trousers and shirt was his footwear, the
most elegantly-tooled and decorated tan
shoes I’ve seen for years. Other things
about him shrieked a certain accusation,
which was expressed by the Digger oppo-
site, who jerked a thumb and said
“Cripes, I’d like t’ get that bloke where
there was just us two.” “Yes,” I said, “I
bet you’d teach him not to pose as a sol-
dier.” “Aw, that,” said the Digger. “Any
soldier could pick ’im in one. No, what
I’d be alter’d be them shoes.” Then in an
awed voice, and gazing hard at them,
he added “Ain’t they f-l-a-m-i-n-g
beauts!” Their owner gave him a
shocked look, fled from the tram and
grabbed a passing taxi.
“C.Q.”: Victoria’s Cold Tea party,
which has been using the war effort as the
excuse for bringing in prohibition by the
backstairs, has observed with great satis-
faction that there is a “different atmo-
sphere” in the streets of Melbourne since
the beer cut and that public behavior has
become almost angelic. Official statis-
tics show an increase of drunk cases from
3103 to 4149 since the cut. Appar-
ently it isn’t only the victims of the
Demon who have hallucinations.
* * * *
“Mac Hoots”: It was at a meeting of
N.E.S. wardens. Somebody was giving
us a lengthy address on the latest crop
of rumors. “And then,” he said, “the
submarine signal went, and a few
minutes later we heard depth charges and
ack-ack fire ” Eieht of us heard him.
We all prided ourfelves on being expert
rumor-detectors. But only one man saw
[he hole in that one. “Ah,” he said,
“another of those flying submarines?”
* * *
~ „ i
“Dhas : Two taxis, neither engaged
sailed by me with their noses in the air
and their eyes on more profitable tares.
The next one stopped graciously per-
mitted me to enter and agreed to carry
me where I wanted to go Come the
Revolution, brother, I said, you will
find me on King s Cross corner Be-
side me will be a pile of blue metal, in
my hand, a large chunk of same. And
every taxi that has disdained my tears,
my imprecations and my money is going
to get it fair in the midriff. For if there’s
one thing” “Lissen, brother,” said
the driver, “that’s your side of it. But
do you know what I have to pay for
“There we were, outflanked and outgunned by the imaginary enemy, with
imaginary ’planes blasting hell out of us, when I"
petrol on the Black Market? Seven bob
a gallon! I had to get a new set of
tyres. They cost me sixty quid on the
Black Market. Tram and bus traffic has
been reduced to blazes and Sydney can t
get along without the taxis. Why don’t
the Government let us have some tyres
and give us 150 gallons of petrol a month
instead of the ridiculous 75 that forces
us on to the Black Market?” Overcome
by his own sorrows, he absent-mindedly
suggested a shilling excess fare. Ponder-
ing the prohibitive cost of blue metal on
the Black Market, I absent-mindedly
changed the conversation.
* * * *
“Fong Tsz”: Excuse me if I seem
exuberant in my support of “Feng Shui s
shouts of delight (B. 27/1/ 43) at the
abolition of “extra-territoriality.” Before
the last war, I recall, there sat against
the parapet of a Soochow bridge a
yellow skeleton. His shoulder-blades
were white through a yellow skin covered
in sores. His miserable breech-cloth, his
only garment, was stiff with filth. Round
his neck was a Brummagem dog-chain of
the twisted-link variety which had worn
a seeping and festered furrow into his
flesh on which the avid flies clustered in
millions. Holding, with his left hand,
one end of the chain was a functionary
in the uniform of the local yamen (magis-
tracy) who every minute or so delibei-
ately brought down on the macerated
back of his tortured captive a heavy
length of frayed bamboo which evoked
a hollow groan. In those days the Chinese
criminal could be sentenced to death by
ling chi-— the thousand cuts—merely be-
cause some mandarin disliked the size of
his feet. The British refused to allow their
nationals to become the victims of these
playful judicial methods. An unreason-
able race the British, as “Feng Shui
implies.
* * * *
“Chevroford”: The Sydney tram that
went on minus its conductress has been
outdone in Melbourne by a bus that
reached its destination minus its driver.
It was a Tramways Board bus, and it
stalled near the Maribyrnong River when
full of workers going on late shift. Un-
able to restart it, the driver went off to
’phone his employers. He came back
just in time to see his vehicle cheerfully
careering round a distant corner. It was
subsequently found, safe and sound, in
Essendon.
•s * * •
“Old Camp”: That par. about the
glass-bottomed pint-pots of beer retailed
in old Coolgardie at 6d. recalls the
rivalry between two local breweries of
the period, the Lion and the Toorak,
Their advertising imethod to a bu s e
each other. Drink Toorak Beer and You
Will Go to Rack and Rum” was a L™
slogan, to which Toorak would retort
in larger type: “Drink Lion Beer and
You’ll Be Lyin’ in the Gutter. Old-
timers will also rememb er Peter the Post-
who aft£r a so j ourn i n the cellar
either hopper y ( be had the entree at
bo would hang his bag full D f letters
£ pepper . tree an d sleep blissfully in
hg §hade Residents passing would pause
carefull through the bag for any
addressed to them. There were
complaints. “Aw, Peter’s a good
sort „ WQuld be the oply commen t.
* * =»
*
“Pitt St.”: She was young vivacious,
easy to look at. She breas j Je mi
bar counter beside me an s V
quired “May I have an ice-cream ? then
hurriedly asked how much it would be.
She was given a choice of anything from
fourpence to two bob and plumped for
a ninepenny dose. She spooned this into
her little self, sighed, surveyed herself
in the mirror behind the counter, cast
one or two quick glances at me (which
I saw without being seen, as it were), then
nervously asked “How much is grape-
juice?” “Sixpence” was the answer.
“Oh.” She seemed rather dashed, and
cast a fluttering glance at my right ear.
Then, “Is it nice?” The waitress guaran-
teed it. She had it, paid her sixpence
and sighed, “It is nice. How do they
make it?” As there was none other to
answer I informed her that they heaped
grapes in a wooden tub, took their boots
off and hopped in and tramped on them,
catching the juice as it ran through holes.
She seemed slightly incredulous, but gave
me a brilliant smile and, catching the
waitress again, sweetly asked for a
“pineapple fizz.” The waitress moved
off, then the soft voice sighed, plain-
tively, “00, no. I can’t. I haven’t
enough money,” and the dark eyes turned
to me. I arose, saying “No good —I’m
an anchorite on whole-time duty,’ and
departed, though not without seeing her
turning eagerly to the fat and fatuous
youth on her other side.
TRADITION.
“Voluntarism, for military service overseas, has
always been the traditional policy of the Australian
people.”— Prime Minister Curtin.
How strange the statement sounds from those
Who, since they first as actors
Appeared in Parliamentary shows,
Have been tradition’s deadliest foes
And bitterest detractors!
Who ever stressed in their appeals
To popular emotions
Their aim ol smashing old ideals
And antiquated notions.
As out-and-out iconoclasts
They bade electors trust them.
How they denounced with withering blasts
The fool beliefs of purblind past
Ere Labor came to bust them!
One heard them boast they’d plan the deaths
And hasten the conclusions
Of venerable shibboleths
And out-of-date illusions.
The firm-fixed faiths and creeds of yore,
When time they found to con them,
The things by which our fathers swore,
Though seldom questioned heretofore,
They scoffed “had whiskers on them. ’
Such stupid fetishes, they’d say,
Were better far forgotten.
All new ideas they found 0.K.,
And old ones sadly rotten.
How different becomes the scene
Now they’ve within their reaching
The finest chance there’s ever been
To practise what they’re proved so keen
And voluble in preaching.
How quick the change, how swift the switch,
Betrayed in the admission
That, as excuse for something which
They fear, if done, would queer their pitch,
They’ll stand behind —tradition!
N.S.W.
PIPARDS.
MY PEGASUS.
My Pegasus grows old, infirm and worn.
•‘Past mark of mouth” long since, as runs
the phrase. .
I sometimes doubt if he has earned his corn
Or warranted his keep these many days.
By rights the time has come for him to graze
In some lush paddock, free from fret and fuss,
Along with other equine waifs and strays,
My Pegasus.
Time was he champed the bit and pawed the
ground — .
Or should it be “the azure fields of air,
As spry as any nag that could be found
To plank a fancy bet on anywhere.
I never deemed him one you could compare
With famed Mazeppa or Bucephalus,
But still, when wanted, he was mostly there,
My Pegasus.
He won no cups. Indeed was never placed,
Or would have stood the shadow of a show,
Where genuine galloping-machines are raced
And sanguine punters dissipate their dough.
A modest “plater” at his best, you know.
He did his bit methodically thus
Since first I mounted him so long ago,
My Pegasus.
“ 'Xis not the distance but the pace that kills,
One often hears, but ’tis as true, alas!
That ruthless Time’s accumulated ills
Will give the staunchest steed his coup ae
grace. _ _
You’ve turned me in a fairish lot of brass,
And while my debt to you I’ll not discuss,
I fear it’s time to turn you out to grass,
My Pegasus!
N.S.W.
T. THE R.


“Nakhoda”: Since the Federal Gov-
ernment has seen fit to use the Equator
as one boundary of the territory over
which the C.M.F. can chase the Jap in-
vader, the Residency at Pontianak, Dutch
Borneo, assumes a new importance.
There is a long-standing joke connected
with it. A sportive controleur who once
occupied it used to give a dinner when
there were strangers in the town, and
over the liqueurs would get the conver-
sation round to a discussion as to who
led in crossings of the Equator.
One individual would claim to have
crossed it 50 times, another 60, and there
was usually an old sea captain who con-
fidently claimed the record because he
had been on the Singapore-Australia run
for 40 years. The controleur would then
remark that he crossed it a hundred times
a day. It bisects the Residency verandah.
* * * *
“Lexia”: At long last a ruling has
been given by the Judicial Com-
mittee of the Privy Council on probate
law which will simplify the troubles of
testators and legatees. One Emily Mor-
gan (Eng.) left £32,000 in investments and
£B4O in cash, directing that “all moneys
of which I am possessed shall be shared
by my nephews and nieces.” The Chan-
cery Court ruled that “moneys” meant
“actual cash,” and, therefore, so far as
investments were concerned, the lady died
intestate. The Appeal Court upheld this
decision, but the Law Lords took the
commonsense view that the lady regarded
her stocks and shares as moneys, other-
wise she would have said something
about their disposition.
* * * *
“D.E.”: Charmed I was to read in
“5.M.H.,” on the authority of Our Staff
Correspondent at Washington, that “con-
siderable interest has been aroused here
by a leading article in the Sydney
‘Morning Herald’ advocating the ap-
pointment of General Sir Harold Alex-
ander as Commander-in-Chief Mediter-
ranean area.” It took me back to the
days when I was editor and one-third of
the staff of the Perth Sunday “Chimes”
and filling space was the main problem,
there having been a procession of fed-up
customers breathing the awful words
“Take out me ad.!” The sporting man,
a 20-stoner, amiable but incapable of a
joke, volunteered to write a series of
special articles on foreign lottery pro-
moters who had discovered the existence
of the West and were prospecting it
through the post for mugs. I
that the inspiration had come from a bet-
ting joint which “communicated with
Hobart,” but he insisted that the influx
of foreign lottery prospectuses had be-
come a Putrid Public Scandal, so I let
him have his fling. Months after the last
of his lucubrations had appeared—they
ran to about 18 24in. columns—he came
into the office beaming. “Did you see
that cable in the ‘West Australian’ about
those lottery ramps?” he asked. I had,
but I affected ignorance. “They’ve
stopped the export of lottery prospectuses
from Switzerland,” he chortled. “That
shows you the Power of the Press! By
God, old man, the Swiss Government
must take a lot of notice of this paper!”
* * * *
“Chevroford”: Melbourne is the first
city in Australia to fit a bus with an
electro-magnet for salvaging metal scrap
from the roadway. In U.S.A. buses have
been known to pick up 12001 b. of scrap
in a 158-mile journey, and in industrial
areas 201 b. in a mile’s run is the average.
In a trial run at the Preston workshops
(Melb.) a car equipped with a magnet
whose coil was energised by a 24-volt
battery collected every scrap of metal
that had been strewn in its path, includ-
ing fragments up to /rib. in weight.
* % * *
“Hamfat”: The fraternity of side-
showmen has lost an interesting member
in Barlow, better known as “The Living
Skeleton.” A bit above the average in
height, and a heavyweight in his teens,
he had not weighed much more
than 4| stone since an illness put
him out of work but enabled him to earn
a living as a side-show freak, in which
capacity he travelled the world. Wher-
ever he went medicoes gave him an over-
haul and propounded theories as to his
condition. It seemed impossible that a
man of his size could live with so little
substance, but he lasted out until he was
55, his weight actually going down to
381 b. before he died. Barlow, American-
born, liked living in Australia.
* * * *
“Spokeshave”; Strange how circum-
stances affect judgments. A few months
ago a leading critic attended a show of
“modern” art in Melbourne and subse-
quently announced, more in sorrow than
in anger, that the pictures had given him
such an attack of the horrors that he was
afraid he would take a fortnight to
recover. He added that if the young lions
of the movement continued in the way
they were going the temple of art would
be polluted for ever and Australian cul-
ture would be ruined. The other day he
attended an exhibition of work by mem-
bers of the fighting and essential services
and expressed himself as amazed at the
high standard of the pictures and the seri-
ousness of the artists represented in the
exhibition. In view of the fact that a
large proportion of the paintings were
executed by the same gang of reprehen-
sible young men and maidens who previ-
ously incurred his displeasure and who
have since donned blue or khaki, I am
at a loss to reconcile the two judgments,
especially as the young men and women
aforesaid don’t seem to have changed
their artistic viewpoint in the slightest.
* * * *
“23-4”: The Queensland township of
Mareeba will have a 50th birthday next
August. In the old days it was known
as Granite Creek, and was a coach stage
on the Port Douglas-Herberton run. The
railway arrived in August, 1893, and the
abo. name for “meeting of the waters”
was adopted. In later years Mareeba has
developed into a tobacco-growing centre,
and its inhabitants look for big expan-
sion after the war, by which time Aus-
tralia should have learned to grow most
of its own tobacco.
* * * *
“Bumpkin”: The wife of an enthusi-
astic amateur vegetable-grower in Mel-
bourne found a piece of ginger sprout-
ing in her kitchen and, much excited,
rushed out to hubby who was working
in the backyard and suggested to him
that he should plant it. “It doesn’t grow
in Victoria,” said her husband emphati-
cally. “You seem to be very sure about
“Ah, Libya! From the Middle East, I presume ?”
it,” said the wife. “How do you know
it doesn’t?” “Well, there isn’t a Ginger
Board, is there?” retorted her helpmate.
* * * *
“Spokeshave”: The first heat-wave of
the season found Melbourne with no
oranges, no lemons, no milk, no
tomatoes and precious little beer.
Thirsty people streamed to and fro
about the city like a mob of cattle
looking for a waterhole. When they
found a pub with its bar open only
the strong and brave succeeded in get-
ting warm beer at sevenpence a guzzle.
Dark and sinister mutterings filled the
air. “The Guvment will hear about this
at the next election,” was one comment.
“If a man has to do this sort of thing
to get a drink it isn’t worth while drink-
ing,” was another. “Oh, well,” said one
philosophical individual who had got a
handle into his fist somehow or other,
“pigs can’t be fussy.”
* * * *
“Loo”: Now is this written with good
intentions or is it a nasty Nazi touch?
On a wall on Sydney’s Bridge-street a
large V has been painted. Accompany-
ing it, in three lines, are the letters “e,”
“ill” and “in,” arranged so that, with the
big V as a starter, the whole thing reads
“Ve vill vin!”
* * * *
“Chevroford”: This war has brought
some strange changes. The Federal
Government is expected to take action
to make it an offence for motor tyres
to be worn to an extent beyond which
repair is impracticable, the current short-
age having made it difficult to get new
tyres or retreads. In one of his plays
G. B. Shaw advances the view that in
peace-time the prosperity of a country
depends on destruction. With modern
mass methods of production if things
lasted too long there would be an econo-
mic depression and unemployment.
Things made quickly must be used up
quickly and replaced so that the wheels
of industry may keep turning. In a nine-
teenth-century household things were
bought to last for a lifetime. I re-
member doing my homework by the light
of a kerosene lamp —a beautiful one it
was, too —which had been brought to
South Australia by my pioneering fore-
bears. It was built to last for centuries.
Now that Mars is setting, new records of
destruction the old virtues of honest
craftsmanship and durability may have
a chance of reasserting themselves.
“M 8”: I’m pleased to hear that
General de Gaulle, having reconciled his
differences, or some of his differences,
with General Giraud, is still in the war
news, though the Giraudist press cut his
picture out of the Casablanca groups.
I should miss him dreadfully from
newsreels. With all respect for N.
Lindsay (B. 3/2/’43) De G. has the big-
gest and flattest feet in Europe, and the
sight of him paddling across a screen has
a charm that is all its own.
* * * *
“S.T.S.”: The view-to-matrimony ad.
in S.A. has taken on an entirely new
form. Instead of the usual ffiodest state-
ment by the lonely one, in which “re-
fined” is about the highest claim, the
matrimonial agency boosts its wares.
Thus there are in the market now “three
tall, handsome gentlemen holding good
Government positions” and one “most
accomplished beautiful young lady.”
'** * *
“Cauboy”: Instrumental executants
aren’t the only category of musicians
who tend to be, as “A Major” points out
(B. 20/1/’43), “a dull lot, not only igno-
rant of every subject but their own, but
almost incredibly narrow and restricted
in their musical knowledge.” Most
singers are the same, in my experience,
and I can remember some conductors
whose general culture wasn’t in evidence.
All the same, I don’t resent the
restriction to one subject of a person
who is obsessed with that subject. The
attitude I detest is that of the university
professor who thinks it bad form to talk
“shop.” 1 once attended a university
garden party at which some of the most
eminent savants were present, and ex-
pected a certain degree of cleverness in
their discourse. I was disappointed. All
present felt in honor bound to keep away
from their own subjects and to indulge
only in conversational small beer, with
a shockingly vapid result.
* * * *
“Bumpkin”: New tenders have been
received by the Victorian Public Works
for the lifting of the S.S. Kakariki from
the mud of Hobson’s Bay, where she has
reposed since she was sunk in a colli-
sion six years ago. Various contractors
attempted to seduce her into rising to
the surface, and in the process there were
so many additional wrecks and injuries
to the workers that the least superstitious
longshoreman about the bay began to
believe there was a hoodoo on her. In-
adequacy of salvage plant seems a less
fantastic explanation. If it were a war-
time Navy job the Kakariki would be
back in the sunshine within a fortnight.
* * * *
“Craiser”: Marjorie Lawrence had
another success in New York when she
made her first appearance in regular
opera —as Venus in “Tannhauser” —since
she was stricken with infantile paralysis.
According to New York “Times,” “a
hush fell on the house when the rich,
beautiful song poured from her lips,
liquid, soothing and steady.” The roars
of applause that followed were probably
partly inspired by the fact that the Aus-
tralian singer had to do her singing from
a sofa, Everybody admires courage in ad-
versity. The opposite was the case once
with another famous Australian singer
who was also not lacking in courage.
She was making the passage from Calais
to Dover after a triumphant Paris season,
and a French officer approached her
companion and asked her if he could
do anything for the poor little lady
swaddled up in furs who so obviously
was finding the Channel swells little to
her liking. “You mean Madame Melba?”
said the lady’s companion. “Are you
Melba?” asked the officer. “Yes, I am,”
muttered the bedraggled figure weakly.
“Mon Dieu!” said the Frenchman and
passed on, crushed, his vision of the-
glorious creature he had read about in
the Paris papers destroyed for ever.
* * * *
“Nakh”: In Victoria cows, which are
necessary and productive, are cheap,
because there is a shortage of hands to
milk them. Shetland ponies, on the other
hand, are dear, because money is plenti-
ful. Ladies’ hacks are inordinately ex-
pensive. There should be a moral in it
for the Ministry if the Ministry is capable
of perceiving such morals.
* * * *
“Yahoo”: No one ever associates Dean
Swift with Australia, but the witty Irish-
man had notions of his own about this
country, as had others in the early 18th
century. His Lilliputians inhabited an
island to the north-west of Van Die-
men’s Land; the Houynhnms and
Yahoos another to the southward of
Cape Leeuwin. Though Swift’s con-
temporaries would hardly have be-
lieved that quite such strange things
as those seen by Gulliver could really
happen in the unknown south, they were
altogether convinced that some mighty
queer things did happen in those lati-
tudes, It wasn’t credible that a country
like Australia could everywhere be as
poor as the parts of it where Dampier
had been ashore. So the British mind
gradually began to envisage a southern
continent and wasn’t oversurprised when
James Cook confirmed its surmises.
* * *
“Shingles” on Sydney’s Wooden
Age:
It is difficult to realise from the present aspect
of Sydney—stone, brick and reinforced con-
crete buildings almost universal —that up to
as recently as the eighteen-seventies the city
was very largely composed of wooden erections.
Anthony Trollope visited Australia in 1871, and
his impressions of the place contain the following
passage: “The antiquity of Sydney —perhaps
1 should say the comparative antiquity—strikes
an Englishman as being almost absurd, as he
remembers that in his father’s lifetime the
place was covered by gum-trees and peopled
by savages. There are houses so old that they
are in almost ruinous condition —seeming to be
as low, as comfortless and almost as pictur-
esque as do some dilapidated tenements in the
. old streets of our old towns. These are
chiefly of wood; but the eyes become so used
to wooden houses that this specially is not
observed.” Very often, however, the well-
built wooden houses of the pioneers didn’t
become dilapidated. They were built to last
with a care and foresight that is seldom be-
stowed upon the most modern specimens of
urban architecture.
# *
“S.T.S.”: No one has greater respect
for “Oxmead’s” opinions than I have,
but I do think he might fall into line and
allow “finalise” its assured place in the
language. Why not? For look at the
precedents: general, special, central,
local, real, legal, vital, moral, capital,
immortal, etc. —all have been built
up into verbs in just the same way with
what A. P. Herbert calls “a Greek tail.”
It was through A.P.H., by the way, that
we first realised that “finalise” was not
as firm in the dictionary as any of the
others. After his antipodean journey he
wrote in “Punch” that it was high time
some matter under discussion “was
‘finalised,’ as they say in Australia.” Thus
he acknowledged the word’s usefulness.
You can “complete” or “settle” things,
it is true, but no other word has quite
the effect —the finality, in fact—of this
one as to cleaning-up a matter that has
been too long under discussion. Any-
way, it is too firmly established already
to be upset by any academic argument.
* * * 4=
“B. Hackshaw”: I find myself in par-
tial agreement with Lud Mayor Nettlefold
when he says that it would be a great
benefit to Melbourne if the Japs bombed
some of our buildings provided, of
course, no one was in them —though I
don’t altogether agree with him as to the
buildings that merit destruction. Still, if
a 40001 b. bomb wiped out Collins-street
the loss to architecture would not be very
great, provided it missed the Treasury
building. As for the Lud Mayor wanting
air ports so placed that a businessman
who has his suburban villa at Launceston
(Tas.) or Glenelg (S.A.) can turn up at
his office in Melbourne at the usual hour
in the morning, what good would that
do? Would sleeping 200 miles away from
his business instead of 20 cure a man’s
indigestion or his boredom or teach him
how to get on with his wife?
* * * *
“Niloc”: The Sydney male trammy’s
uniform has been overhauled for summer
usage. Latest edition is a sort of thin
navy lumber jacket which buttons up
like a shirt. The boys set it off well
with maroon ties, not supplied or even
authorised by the Transport Department.


ABORIGINALITIES
“Old-timer”; We’d drifted into Coota-
mundra one blazing Sunday afternoon
and, after vainly prospecting the various
potential sources of illegal refreshment,
sought rest for our weary bones in the
town park, a vast expanse of nothing sur-
rounded by large and shady trees. Now
when a man sits under a tree on a lazy
afternoon and his thoughts dwell on the
unattainable and there are bits of stick
about, what does he do? He gets out
his pocketknijje and begins to cut and
carve the bits of stick, yarning medi-
tatively the while on past successes and
failures. Well, Tom got out his knife
and then encountered trouble, for the
thing had stuck and he couldn’t get the
blade out. Tom, a bit of a clown, per-
formed sundry exaggerated burlesques of
a man doing feats of strength, then threw
the knife down and ran round crying
curses on everything. The unseemly dis-
play attracted a somnolent citizen from
under a tree who came up and demanded
“What’s the matter with him ?” “Aw,”
we said, “his knife blade won’t open.
He’s just actin’ the goat.” The citizen
regarded Tom morosely. “He’ll get used
to it,” he said bitterly, “if he stops here
Nothing opens in this town on a Sunday.”
* * * *
“Maffra Mo.”: All these coves rush-
ing in with their theories as to why a
cow upends her stern and a nag its fore-
castle first when getting up remind me
of an economist trying to explain why
the cockies have no money —it’s just
theory lightly balanced on fancy. The
plain truth is to be found in the construc-
tion of the critters. Go look at a cow,
mates, then look at a horse. How could
either rise in any other than its natural
way without insulting all the laws of
balance, conformation and compensa-
tion?
* * * *
“The 0.D.”: Crude construction, time
and weather had worked their will on the
home of Mac, a Mallee cocky, and it came
about that the only way in which the
front door could be opened was by shov-
ing an axe blade under it and levering
up. Mac’s family never bothered to right
the thing ; it was open most of the time
anyhow and, if it wasn’t, they could
always go out the back. There came a
new bank manager to the district, and he
decided to make a tour of the bank’s
clients. He hit Mac’s place just on tea-
time and found the front door shut
against the black north-easter raging. He
knocked heartily, whereupon Mac him-
self stuck his head through a front win-
dow and said “Who might you be?” “I’m
Overdraft, the new bank manager,” came
the answer. Then Mac withdrew his head
hurriedly and the visitor heard him roar
“Quick, get the axe. Here’s the new bank
manager.” But when they got the door
open there was nobody there.
m * * *
“Bo”: It was the best brumby that
had been brought into the station for
years, and,, segregated in the small horse-
yard, it was putting on a good demon-
stration of bucking, to the admiration
of some of the hands. The breaker was
just exultantly proclaiming that there
was good blood in it, and that before
he’d finished with it it would be the best
hack on the station, when Icecream, the
half-caste abo. from a near-by camp,
came along. “There y’are, Icecream,” said
Jimmy the Streak as the brumby trotted
quietly by after his burst. “There’s a
horse that’s never had a saddle on him
yet. Think y’ could ride him?” “Easy!”
replied the boong, “By cripe, if he ain’t
’ad no saddle on he must be a mug at
the game!”
“Solitude”: The old bloke swung off
at the pub, bawled an invitation along the
verandah to Sandy, and strode in calling
for drinks. Bung, with his usual mono-
tonous complaint about short supplies,
drew a couple from the new and fiery
barrel he’d just put on tap. Seventyfiver
looked at them, dropped his two bob on
the bar and dived into an inside pocket.
Presently he fossicked out his ration
book, opened it at the right place and
shoved it over alongside the cash. “Hey,
what’s the coupons for?” Bung queried
as he picked up the money. The old cove
solemnly raised his glass and indicated
Sandy’s. “F’r the collars,” he said.
* * * *
“Nipper”: How is it that most of the
“bone” towns are concentrated in the Ma
State? Here are a few: Gulargambone,
Quambone, Buttabone, Tharambone,
Wallamgambone, Girilambone, Merry-
ambone, Terembone, Cullenbone, Billy-
bingbone, Merrywinebone, Gelumgam-
bone, Quantambone and Nangerybone.
There may be others, and it wouldn’t
be surprising if there were a Jaw-
bone or a Shinbone tucked away
somewhere in the mulga. The Cabbage
Garden and Bananaland seem to be quite
free of rural places with osseous tails.
* * * *
“Curra-warra”; The transcontinental
had pulled up at Ooldea and the usual
abos. were there, waiting to exchange
miniature boomerangs and spears for
“Take y'r clothes orf, Alfred, an' I'll paint y' in the nood!”
silver coins or ’bacca. A lubra, some-
what more enterprising than the nungas,
was in the forefront, urging all and
sundry to “gibbit,” when a passenger
kindheartedly tossed her a carton of
sandwiches. The lubra adroitly caught
the package with her free hand, ran to a
small bush near by, squatted in the dust
and ripped open the carton. Then,
scraping the butter and tomato out of
the sandwiches, she vigorously rubbed
the mixture into her hair and threw the
bread to her dog.
* * * *
“Aratta”: “I s’pose y’ wouldn’t credit
that some dogs are tender-hearted,” re-
marked Bogan Bob. “I’m sittm’ in front
of me hut one Sunday mornm’ when I
noticed Rory, me Airedale, squattin’
down a little bit away shiverin’, an’ every
now an’ then givin’ a whimper. I stroll
across t’ him, an’ strike me lucky if he
ain’t sittin’ there lookin’ sad at one of
the boss’s kid’s picture-books which is
open at a page labelled ‘The Death of
Cock Robin,’ an’ showin’ a bird lyin’ on
his back with an arrer in his breast! A
few days afterwards I see him bringin’
home a live rabbit kitten which he puts
tenderly in the barrel he sleeps in. Havin’
a screw, I find two others there as
well. A bit later he heels up one o’ the
cows gently towards me hut, then tears
in an’ comes out draggin’ a bucket an’
drops it in front of me an’ starts trottin’
backwards an’ forwards, all the while
lookin’ at me appealin’, between the cow
an’ his kennel. ’Course I soon tumble
that the softhearted ole coot wants me
t’ milk the cow so’s he can feed them
kittens. But his tender heart was the
finish of him. While I’m rushin’ about
lookin’ fer a stick t’ deal with a big
brown snake one day Rory gets nosm
the wriggler t’ git him outa harm’s way
quick. But Joe mistakes Rory’s inten-
tions an’ puts the fangs in. Well, p’raps
it was as well he died that way, instead
of through a broken heart at seein’ what
I did to that snake.”
H« * *
“Mat’s Mate”: The big fellow was sit-
ting on his knot just outside Forbes one
evening, debating whether to camp there
or make for the town. Came a youth in
a spring cart and Mat stopped him. “How
far are we from Forbes?” The youth
considered. “Aw, about three mile.”
“How about a lift?” asked Mat. The
youth nodded ; Mat heaved the shoulder-
furniture aboard and climbed up. They
travelled along at a fair clip, discussing
this and that, for well over an hour, and
Mat suddenly thought of something and
said “Hey, I thought y’ said Forbes was
only about three mile.” The youth drew
the nag to a stop. “Cripes,” he said, “y’
never said y’ was goin t’ Forbes. I’m
makin’ for Garema.” In cold silence
Mat got down. “Go t’ Garema,” he
snarled, “an’ when y’ get there see if
y’ can borrow a good razor.” The youth
looked surprised. “But I don’t want a
shave,” he said. “No,” said Mat, “but
y’ want y’r throat cut.” The youth gave
him a wild look, stood up and lashed
the horse, and he and his conveyance
vanished hastily into the gloom,
* * * *
“Moyhu”: A plague of domestic cats
gone bush was rapidly cleaning up
ground-hatched birdlife. Groundlarks
and quail suffered until the sight of either
became a rarity. Then catskins began
to bring 2s. apiece. The resultant thin-
ning of the cat population was followed
by the gradual reappearance of the
ground birds, but the threat to their exist-
ence as distinct species led to one strik-
ing result. Quail and groundlarks began
t o nest high up in tree hollows small
enough and far enough into the bole to
be safe from the feline paw. Certain ad-
justments in age-old habits were neces-
sary when the family reached fledgling
stage. Quail are horizontal fliers, and the
parent birds solved the problem of get-
ting the chicks to the ground uninjured
b y choosing broad-trunked, leaning trees,
from which they slid gracefully to earth,
The groundlarks’ method was different.
Dad hovered below the hollow, and as
Mum gave the final shove he’d flutter,
wings outstretched, just beneath his off-
spring, giving it a “steadier” if a stall
threatened. The ground habits of both
species were then resumed until the next
clutch, when the procedure was repeated,
* * * *
“Avon”: Up till a few weeks ago if
anybody in Maoriland had proposed to
deliberately cultivate dandelions a shriek
of rage would have arisen from every
Road Board and County Council in the
Dominion and the Farmers’ Union would
have organised a lynching party. But
that’s all changed since it has been dis-
covered that plants of the milkweed
family can be made to produce rubber.
News of the discovery comes from Soviet
Russia, and the best variety for the pur-
pose has the Russian name kok-saghyz.
The rubber, apparently, is derived from
the roots. An acre produces 45001 b. to
55001 b. of roots, which in turn produce
1501 b. to 2001 b. of crude rubber. There
are experimental plots of kok-saghyz now
at various strategic spots along the length
of the Fernland islands, from Hamilton
in the far north to a Central Otago sta-
tion in the south. Supplies of seed were
obtained from Australia. Another rubber
hope is the Mexican shrub guayule, which
has been cultivated for rubber in Cali-
fornia for 40 years. This also is being
experimented with in M.L.
* * * *
“Wang”: “Me an’ Joe Biggs is chop-
pin’ firewood alongside the road,” re-
lated Dan, “when along comes an elderly
bloke humpin’ a bluey. He drops his
swag an’ stands watchin’ us. ‘Youse
blokes don’t know too much about
handlin’ an axe,’ he ses. I wipe
-the sweat brf me forehead an’
replies, sharp, ‘Oh! Don’t we? Do
you know anything about it y’rself?’
‘Well, considerin’ I was champeen axe-
man of Gippsland for years I reckon I
oughter,’ ses the bloke. Joe suddenly
stops choppin’ an’ looks hard at him.
‘ ’Struth! ’ he ses. ‘Did y’ say Gipps-
land? I come from there meself; born
at Noojeejup. No wonder y’ know how
t’ use an axe. Did y’ know Bert Magin-
nis?’ The bloke sed he did —knew him
well —had beaten him in woodchops
of’en. ‘An’ Artie Dobell?’ goes on Joe,
enthusiastic; ‘an’ Sam Chipps an’ Jim
Spillane?’ an’ reels orf about a dozen
more names, all of which the other coot
ses he knew intimate. ‘An’ what might
your name be?’ asked Joe. ‘Mills,’ ses
the other chap. ‘Gripes!’ cries Joe, be-
ginnin’ t’ get real excited. ‘Mills!
“Timber” Mills they useter call y’. I’ve
heard of y’ hundreds of times down there
when 1 wus a kid. Well, well; it’s no
wonder y’ know whether we can use an
axe or not!’ The bloke heaves his swag
up an’ ses ‘Well, I’ll be on me way;
can’t keep y’ from y’r work ; s’long,’ an’
mooches orf. ‘Fancy him bein’ the cham-
peen!’ I remarked. ‘He’s that, all right,’
ses Joe, laughin’; ‘the champeen liar.
I’ve never been in Gippsland, an’ all them
blokes I mentioned was imagin’ry.’
‘H’m! ’ I ses, eyein’ him, grinnin’; ‘our
friend may be a blanky good liar, but he
ain’t the champeen, not be a long shot! ’ ”
* * * *
“Billy See”: Reading “B. A. Ker’s”
account of scoop-fishing (B. 6/l/’43)
with his one man to steer, one to row
and one to scoop impels me to inquire:
Why a helmsman when a man was using
the oars? A small boat may be impelled
with oars by two methods. , One is where
the rower stands and, by alternately dip-
ping and pushing on the oars, sends the
craft along. This is, properly, rowing.
It has the advantage in that the rower
has a clear vision of points ahead. Row-
ing thus and with a long-haired mate in
the bows I have scoop-fished many times,
usually for garfish. Being able to see
the fish I was able to direct the boat so
that the scoop could be used to the best
advantage. The other method of boat-
propulsion is to sit and pull on the oars.
This is pulling a boat. Its disadvantage
is that the oarsman pulls blind. But
even at that a whisper from the scoop-
man, “Right,” “Left,” and still no steers-
man is required. And lam much afraid
that had I indulged in unnecessary weight
of up to 12 stone in the stern but few
fish would have been caught. Two is
enough any time for me on a scoop-fish-
ing expedition. There is a third method
—paddling —and even a fourth, whereby
a boat can be flogged along with a single
oar over the stern.
*
“Loc”: “Yair,” said Dad, “there’s
nothin’ that can touch a good juicy steak
—providin’ you know how to cook it.
For instance, you never put it straight
on the fire, ’cause this ruins the flavor.
First, it should be soaked in strong black
tea.” Here he picked up a hunk of meat
and before the interested gaze of the new
hand soaked it in the brew. Then the
expert continued: “To really flavor it,
you need some of this here cocky’s joy;
then y’ sprinkle some cinnamon on it
and fry it in goanna fat. Y’ll have a
blowout that’s fit for a king!” The
hand lashed in to the finished concoc-
tion. Three days later he was able to
get about again, albeit a bit weak on his
pins. Since then he has lived entirely on
c. bf. and carrots, and Dad declares that
with what he has saved on rump steak
he could almost buy Charley’s pub.
TOWNSHIP AT NIGHT.
White dust lies thick as sleep over the town;
Over the iron roofs the moon pours down
Mirage of light; dream-memory of a day
Flaring through Africa, half the world away.
Ceaseless, sleepless, cicadas still vibrate,
Their cry like the heart of heat, insatiate.
Nothing moves but the moon; without a sound
Marking invisible hours the whole sky round.
Nothing wakes on the plain; the long road’s
white
Stretches from end to end of luminous night.
Only the pepper-tree standing like a ghost
Drops her sharp shadow on the gleaming dust.
Only I, here at the window; only my eyes
See how beyond pale roofs the wide plain lies
Curving like space or sleep; the light falls
sheer
Like the white fall of water over a weir.
And suddenly, over the loud cicada-cry,
Only I hear that new and harsher tune;
See crimson stars of danger travel the sky
And the shadow of the bombers across the
moon.
N.S.W.
J. WRIGHT.


“What the hell does it matter WHAT'S for dinner !”
“Zake”: “The laziest cove I ever
struck,” said Joe Callaghan as he
sprawled luxuriously in the shade of a
belar, “was a new hand I put on a little
while back. I wondered why the milk
yield was droppin’ till, cornin’ back in the
old ‘T* from havin’ a yarn to old Tom
Brattan over on the ridge, I coasts down
from the road sliprails with the engine
off and pulls up near the bails. Belinda,
the scrubber I got from Nat Gorman, is
in, so I thinks I’ll stop an’ see how long
he takes to milk her. Don’t know how
long he’d bin there before, but, do y’
know, I sat there for two hours an’ he
on’y milked five! I went crook, but y’
know what these blokes are. Why, the
very next day I get him to give me a
hand cuttin’ up the big bluegum in the
river paddock that was brought down in
the big storm. He starts off good-oh, but
after a bit I notices the crosscut goin’
slower an’ slower until finally it stops.
Don’t know how long after it was, but
I’m woke up by a gratin’ sort o’ sound
an’ I sees the hand fast asleep an’ snorin’
like a crosscut saw in action! I sacked
the cow then an’ there!”
Jfc jfc * *
“Fernland”: In Maoriland’s far north
an aged Maori chief, Maki Prihi, find-
ing he had no pleasure in the years and
that it was time to go to his long home,
went out into the bush, tied himself to
a puriri tree and there expired. It was
recalled that his mother, Pauhou, at the
age of 112 also betook herself to sylvan
solitudes when death beckoned to her.
Accounts of the matter make mention of
“ancient Maori custom,” and it may be
that there is some precedent for such an
ending in Maori naturalistic mythology,
though many great chiefs and even
tohungas are known to have died com-
fortably at home, surrounded by family
and followers. Like the Greeks, the
ancient Maoris populated forests, rivers,
mountains and plains with supernatural
powers. Very silly, no doubt, but ex-
plorers of Antarctic wastes and climbers
high on Everest, hard-headed men of
our own race, have felt they were accom-
panied by the invisible, and all the poets
from Chaucer down testify to the dim
belief that something not of this life in-
habits the stillness of the forest.
* * * «
“Nor’-west”: The day was a snorter
even for the Murchison (W.A.) belt.
Waterbags were long empty when we
sighted some river gums ahead. The
water proved to be a nice pool, but well
down beneath steep banks of hard clay.
No lying on one’s belly lapping it up
like a lizard ; too far down even to pick
a double-palm cupful. But among the
gums grew a few good-sized cadjeputs
(paperbarks). With his knife Narral cut
out a sheet about 24 inches by 12. Twist-
ing this to the shape of a shopkeeper’s
lolly cone he bound the top round with
a few yards torn off in a long strip, leav-
ing a good length to serve as a handle.
So the abo. dipped the water up —and
it tasted cool drunk from the deep wet
cup.
* * *= *
“Herbert Dawson”: “Pardon Me” (B.
13 /1 / ’43) is undeserving of pardon.
How does he explain the performances
of a gate-opening old nag if he (the
nag) doesn’t remember that he got
through by niggling at that catch before?
And what is the use of breaking-in horses
if they cannot remember that they have
been taught to lead and that gear flung
about them will not hurt them? If it
is just the matter of smell, why not just
get on them in a crush and trust that your
particular smell is O.K. to the moke?
But even then, as he would not even
remember that he had been yarded
before, you would have to do it all over
every time you wanted to ride him. And
certainly the sheep-dog doesn’t live only
“in a world of smells.” Chuck a pup
into a waterhole and a few minutes later
try to catch him to chuck him again.
Why will he run away? You haven’t
changed your smell, and the old water
hole was “ponging” away just the same
before you chucked him in. I won’t go
so far as to say that “Pardon Me” him-
self “lives in a world of smells,” but if
there is anything really short on memory
I suggest that he could find it neaier
home than that cunning old horse he put
in the night paddock an hour ago, imag-
ining he wouldn’t remember that break
in the fence he found and used for escape
yesterday.
» * * *
“B. A. Ker”; It wasn’t the size of the
flock that drew my attention —a bunch
of three or four hundred starlings is no
novelty in our locality—but their conduct
was certainly extraordinary. Then I saw
the reason. About a hundred feet above
the frantically wheeling, darting and
doubling flock a brown hawk soared with
marvellous ease, while some 50ft. below
the starlings floated its mate. Sand-
wiched between the two menaces, the
starlings looked to be doomed. A light-
ning dash would be made in one direc-
tion, then, as though at a word of com-
mand, an about-face and dash to the
rear; yet with seemingly lazy facility the
hawks always retained their positions.
The strategy was obvious: just as a
fisherman plays a fish, so were the pair
exhausting their prey. But the starlings
proved the master strategists. A quick
feint, a wheel and the flock halved and
sped in opposite directions. For a second
the hawks hesitated —and lost, by break-
ing up their combination. With only one
menace to watch, each flock split again
and escaped without a casualty! Having
seen what starlings do to grapes I’ve
never liked the pests, but admiration
could not be denied here.
* * * *
“Dan McGee”; That carrying of a
piece of bullock’s rib for the purpose of
scraping the blade of the banjo (B.
30 1 12 1 ’42) was largely a matter of diplo-
macy on the part of the old-time navvy,
and its decline nicely coincided with the
rise of trade-unionism. In a gang of old-
timers, with the ganger patrolling the
brink of the cutting full of wrathful
exhortations to “fill y’r shovel right up
to the maker’s name,” the act of straight-
ening one’s back merely for the relief
of straightening it was unthought of, and
if practised too often led to a visit to the
pay office “f draw y’r time.” But Who
could find fault with the diligent worker
who paused a minute to scrape his shovel
clean so that he could even more success-
fully achieve the covering of the maker’s
name? To those who may never have
seen a real navvy shovel, let me explain
that the maker’s name was well up on
the steel hasps which fitted on to the
handle.
* * * *
“Apiarist”; Whether the bee is really
intelligent, or merely acts through long-
established instinct —-and a hive instinct
at that —is something the beekeeper can
never decide. Many actions appear to
be individual and intelligent, as, for
instance, when a single bee will issue
from the mob to investigate why you are
being altogether too nosy around the
entrance to the hive. Without actually
stinging, such a bee will hover close to
one’s face and follow until certain that
the intruder has removed to a respectable
distance. Yet the same bee has so little
perception of danger that it allows itself
to be chopped up by a lawn-mower (B.
6/1 /’43), a fate that the humble fly would
be careful to avoid. Bees have a sense
of danger, but only within the limits of
their own kind. A drone will loaf and
sun himself on the landing board of his
own hive, with his scores of sisters prac-
tically tumbling over him. But place
him on the landing board of a strange
hive, even the one next-door, and he
won’t stay there a fraction of a second,
V Hi * *
“Theo D. Lite”: Admitted that frac-
ture strikes downwards, but military
engineers place charges on the side, top
or bottom of a bridge part, and the result
is the same. Field manuals admit the
usefulness of surface charges, but rate
them only one-tenth as efficient as the
more common method of placing the ex-
plosive in the centre of the rock or log.
The explanation of the difference be-
tween nitroglycerine and powder (B.
20/1/’43), though having some elements
of truth in it, doesn’t give the full pic-
ture. When an explosion occurs on the
face of rock, the affected area is actually
compressed. After the pressure is re-
duced, the compressed zone recovers like
a released spring, with momentum vary-
ing with the pressure of the explosion.
If the pressure was high enough, as it
is with “fracture,” the small tensile
strength of brittle materials like rock can-
not restrain the motion, and fragments
break off at a small depth below the sur-
face. This is proved by the fact that the
stone fragments actually fly out against
the direction of the explosion. Powder,
even if contained in a drilled hole, can-
not exert sufficient pressure to do this,
but both it and fracture in a drilled hole
generate enough pressure to cause the
stone to burst apart by direct tension.
The principle of surface damage by high
explosives is used to “bull” or enlarge
holes so as to allow a larger charge to
be placed where it will do most good.
* * * *
“Gerard St.”: From an English paper’s
Service Column:
“waltzing matilda.”
Would you please tell me the meanings of the
rather unusual words in the song “Waltzing
Matilda’ 1 : Swagman, Billabong, Coolibah-tree,
Billy, Jambuck, Squatter.— S. J. M.
A swagman is the Australian term for a
commercial traveller, a billy is a tin can used
for boiling water in, a jambuck is a stockwhip
used for rounding up sheep or cattle. A
squatter is a man who settles on a vacant piece
of land. I’m afraid I do not know what the
other words mean. I wonder if any reader can
tell me?
A coolibah, of course, is a skittish young
lubra and a billabong is a kind of native
warrior found in the alpine country
around Footscray and Woolloomooloo..
* * * *
“Gumsucker”: I was bred in a place
where horses and stables were more plen-
tiful than even cars and garages were
in Sydney suburbs before 1941. But
footwear was scarce, so in bare feet I
trudged over miles of roads and wan-
dered through horse-yards and stables
and never gave a thought to tetanus. And
I had half a dozen playmates who did the
same. Yes, we had a fear of lockjaw, but it
was supposed to occur only when one was
unlucky enough to cut the integument be-
tween the thumb and the forefinger. De-
spite this ever-brooding menace, I knew
of only two cases of tetanus during those
14 years. One was a wood-carter who,
rubbing ointment on a saddle gall, picked
up a tiny splinter from the horse’s back
at the time. The other was a boy who,
his people having moved into a house
long untenanted, picked up a splinter in
his foot from the much-worn Baltic-pine
floor. So how has it come about that
the horse is now ranked as a tetanus-
carrier? Around those same stables
I knew of jockeys who had themselves
buried to the neck in the manure heap in
order to command a real good sweat,
and, though odd ones died of consump-
tion, none died from tetanus.
*
“Anthropo”; With nothing but a scrap
of quartz and a fire the abo. could
start a regular arsenal. From almost any
kind of bush he could procure thin,
slender saplings 6ft. to 12ft. long. Lance-
wood or spearwood is the name given to
such all over Australia. Peeling his sap-
ling, he surveyed it for kinks. If any, he
wetted the place and then held it to the
heat of his fire. This softened the fibres
so that a little judicious work with the
hands brought the potential spear-shaft
to a desirable straightness. The point-
to-be was then inserted into the fire, the
bulk of the wood charred away, a needle-
point then being attained by scraping
with the quartz fragment. Such a spear,
either by throwing from the womera
or by mere thrusting, could pierce a
human body from side to side. If a
real killer spear was desired it was
barbed. Oblong holes were scraped on
the shaft near the point. Into these
were fitted fragments of stone, or, when
the white map came, scraps of glass,
being cemented into place with kino,
blackboy or spinifex gum, or a mixture
of the three. A skilled armorer could
produce a dozen such spears inside a
week.
* * * *
“Matsy”: I doff my lid and withdraw
unreservedly all the curses I heaved at
the sparrow. A plague of green grubs
appeared on a Cytisus stenopetalus and
the leaves of that delightful shrub dis-
appeared like magic till a couple of
dozen spags got to work and lunched
on the lot. Since then the foliage has
broken again, and the spadgers regularly
look over the shrub. For services
rendered they have been placed on the
strength of our menage for rations and
bathing facilities.
* * * *
“Punch”: “Don’t be a goat,” said Dad
Bolton; “that’d ruin it!” “Oh, no,” re-
turned the new hand; “that’s how
Thompson, me old boss, used to clean
one of his.” Dad pricked up his ears,
for Thompson was renowned for hand-
ling his guns with care. “Ar, well, I’ll
give it a fly,” he said, and took a cart-
ridge from the box, tore out the card-
board tip and emptied the lead. Then he
filled it with the particular samples of
grit and stones that the new hand, with
due care, was selecting. The cartridge
was re-wadded and fired into the air.
“ ’Struth! ” exclaimed the old bloke later
as he gazed with pride down the now-
gleaming barrel, “that bloomin’ well
worked!” The hand was quite popular
until Dad tested the weapon with a cart-
ridge and found there was a good tenth
of an inch to spare all round. It was
then he remembered that Thompson had,
among other guns, an old muzzle-loader.
“Censor's office second on the left.”
TRIUMPHANT.
As over the sea’s wide waters
I watched a full moon soar,
Last night I met with an artist
Wounded and back from war.
What time on the beach before us
The combers curving broke,
Twas not of strife in the jungle,
Peril and fear, he spoke.
Of Death that slid through the darkness
And struck like a crested snake,
Or Death from the high skies hurtling,
Mention he did not make.
Like one redeemed from a prison
And dreading naught did he seem.
Or one that at midnight wakens
Freed from an evil dream.
As thus by the sea’s wide waters
O’er silvered sands we walked,
’Twas only of form and color,
Odor and song he talked.
He talked of noons in the jungle
When never a sound was heard,
Save only the charm of music
Voiced by a singing bird.
Talked not of nights in the jungle
In strife or vigil spent,
But only of tall moon-lilies
Drenching the gloom with scent.
Thus, though in death and ruin
Grim was- may work its will,
The artist-sense still triumphs;
Beauty it cannot kill.
N.S.W.
RODERIC QUINN.


The strongest ready-to-use glue for sticking emery cloth to
grinder discs—recommended for SHEARING-SHED work.
—J
40z., Boz., 160 z., 1-gallon sizes
Hardware and general stores.
Australian, Mercantile, Land & Finance
Company, Limited
(INCORPORATED IN ENGLAND IN 1363)
WOOL, FAT STOCK, STORE AND STUD STOCK,
PRODUCE AND PROPERTY SALESMEN
General Manager for Australia: R. SINCLAIR SMITH.
ADVANCES MADE ON GRAZING PROPERTIES, ON STOCK, AND ON
CONSIGNMENTS OF WOOL, SKINS, HIDES, TALLOW, ETC.
LICENSED AUCTIONEERS, STOCK AND STATION AGENTS.
SYDNEY OFFICE: A. M. MURDOCH, Manager.
ALSO AT MELBOURNE, BRISBANE, NEWCASTLE, WAGGA, HENTY, HAY, MOREE,
TOWNSVILLE, CHARLEVILLE, BUENOS AIRES, LONDON.
GENERAL AGENTS IN NEW SOUTH WALES FOR NORTHERN ASSURANCE CO.. LTD.
fr~
• «rr
)»■! i« J-i 'i
HOTEL GRAND CENTRAL
151 CLARENCE STREET, facing G.P.0., SYDNEY.
No accommodation available for February or March, 1943
G. C. C. McKAY, Manager.
THE MAN ON
THE LAND
"DON'T WORRY, I'M SENDING IT TO
GRAZCOS."
Classing for Appraisement.
“Murrawong”: There is a general ten-
dency to make too many lines; thus the
clip occupies very much more space on
floor and catalogue than it would have
done under auction, and brokers have
trouble in handling small lines.
Group together small lots that will
match. The classer’s report should in-
dicate suitable lots and the broker should
be guided by it and his own observation
when the lots are opened up. If the
broker decides that two small lots can
best be appraised as different types it
shows that the classer knows his job.
The Australian Wool Board could do
much by giving publicity to appraisers’
requirements: The Table of Limits is
inaccessible to shed classers. All classers
should know the general scheme of
appraisement. Most woolmen know
that a warp wool must be absolutely
sound and regular, but they do not all
know that the minimum lengths for the
various qualities are; 64’s and 60’s,
34in.; 66’s, 70’s and 74’s, Sin.; 80’s
and upwards, 2fin. Anything in these
qualities without the minimum length is
a half-warp. There is a sufficient drop
in value, apart from anything else, to
bar putting warp and half-warp wools
in the same line. If, say, the fleeces
range in length from 3in. to 4in. of 64’s
quality and there is enough to make a
full warp top line the classer must keep
out any fleeces of less than staple.
Information is lacking, too, with re-
gard to mixed bales, butts and bags,
At present a mixed bale may be appraised
provided the wools are sufficiently simi-
lar in type. For instance, fleece wool
and good broken may go in the same
bale divided by a partition, but if fleece
is packed with bellies, locks, crutchiiigs,
black or dead wool the appraisers will
not look at it and the bale will have to
be reclassed or marketed through a pool
at the grazier’s expense. The same thing
occurs if merino and crossbred wools are
packed in the same bale.
Don’t send wool in bags. Oddments
left over should go to a reliable reclass-
ing firm for marketing through a pooling
system.
Care of Milking Machines.
“Goulburn”: Rubber parts of milking
machines are going to be increasingly
difficult to replace, so look after them.
Fats and greases cause the greatest
deterioration of the rubber, and thorough
washing is necessary to remove all milky
matter and butterfat from tubes and in-
flations as soon as possible after milking.
Run cold or lukewarm water through
the machines, using a gallon to each set
of cups, to remove particles of milk and
to prevent cooking-on when hot water is
applied. Then run through boiling water
—add a tablespoonful of caustic soda to
each four gallons—and allow air to enter
intermittently to cause the solution to
surge and thus improve the cleansing
action. Give the outsides of cups par-
ticularly, and all sections where metal
touches rubber, a good brushing to re-
move any deposits. Then run plain boil-
ing water through the machines to re-
move traces of the caustic soda solution
and to complete sterilisation. Make sure
it’s boiling, as it must destroy bacteria.
Disconnect claws and long milk rub-
bers and hang them in a cool, airy posi-
tion, away from sunlight, until next milk-
ing.
Follow this treatment without fail after
each milking and dismantle the entire
plant once a week and soak the rubber
parts in a slightly stronger caustic solu-
tion. After they have soaked for some
hours, dip them in a similar solution of
“How many domestics do you employ ?”
boiling water for a few minutes, and then
rinse in plain water or water treated with
sodium hypochloride.
If any section shows that milk has
been cooked on, remove the deposit by
soaking in a \ per cent, solution of tar-
taric acid. If the machines are not to be
used for a time, carefully cleaqse the rub-
ber parts, place them in a tin receptacle,
cover with French chalk or lime, seal
from the air, and store in as cool a place
as possible.
Slippery Concrete.
“H.C.”: If a concrete milking yard is
slippery try an overcoating of hydro-
chloric acid to roughen the surface.
Use the commercial type full strength,
but first scrub the floor clean of all grease
and dust. To protect any certain portion
—particularly drains —build up clay
ridges several inches thick to prevent the
acid penetrating. While one man pours
the acid out, another sweeps it evenly
over the surface with an old broom.
Leave it no more than 15 minutes, then
flush with water. After that, the ridges
around the drain can be taken away and
a second flushing of a strong solution of
soda and water given.
If three or four light wood blocks are
left on the floor, the workers can operate
from these without injury to boots and
sweep them aside as sections are finished ;
mackintoshes should be worn.
Pastures for Pigs.
There are nothing better or
cheaper, provided grains and supplements
are fed as well. The pig gets all the
nutrients needed to balance grain feeds
and make quicker growth, and losses
from disease are fewer.
Protein in pastures makes up for its
lack in grain. Best source of protein is
the grass and clover mixture. Calcium,
which Dennis needs when he’s growing,
is found in legumes and rape. Any
pasture is rich in vitamin A; it slips
down-grade in vitamin D, but this is
supplied to the pigs through the sun.
Lucerne is easily the best green crop.
Let the pigs graze on portion of the pad-
dock only and turn them out before they
do any damage. Cut and feed rather
than graze if it’s more economical.
Rape, barley, broadcast maize and oats
are all relished by pigs. So is Kikuyu
grass, which supplies abundant feed and
flourishes like a native on the coast. For
summer grazing sow paspalum and
couch ; for winter grazing, perennial pas-
ture mixtures. Subdivision of paddocks
and rotational grazing should be the aim.
Pigs on pastures need a mineral mixture
of salt, air-slaked lime and bonemeal.
A Scare far Flying Foxes.
“Hugh C. M.”: Foxes attack fruit
only when it is about ready to pick. We
have seen no foxes since we put up these
scares. We rigged some old water pipes
to reach about sft. above the tallest trees,
drove a wooden plug into the top of each
pipe and drilled a hole through each plug
slightly larger than a piece of fencing
wire, so that the wire could turn easily
in the - hole.
We greased the plug and the wire well.
Six inches of the wire went into the
plug. The rest, about 4ft., was bent a
little less than a right angle. On the
outer end of the wire we made a small
loop to hold a swivel. We cut a piece of
drawing paper about 12in. by 9in., sewed
it from the centre to one of the 9in.
sides with 1 / 16in. tie-wire and at the
edge of the paper twisted one wire round
the other and cut it off. We cut the other
wire 18in. long and made a loop at the
end to catch in the spring hook swivel
at the end of the fencing wire.
We stood the pipe up in the middle of
a tree and bound it firmly to a bough.
Any light breeze made the paper flap,
and it would turn the fencing wire in
the hole with every change of the wind.
One of the scares to each nine trees
seems about right and they can be moved
about as required.
Grooming.
■‘Myrrhee”: Make sure the horse is
cool and dry before grooming.
Commence on the near side of the
neck behind the ear. Thoroughly brush
coat, moving the brush the way the hair
lies. A circular motion with the brush
will remove hard dirt and scurf. After
completing the near side, do the off side
and then groom the legs. Follow by
thoroughly brushing the head and mane.
The eyes, nostrils and dock are cleaned,
the tail brushed out and a final polish
given with a rubber in place of the brush.
Clean the feet each day, and every
few days wash out the sheath and dry
it, but don’t use soft soap.
The currycomb is often used on the
horse’s coat, instead of, for its correct
function, the cleansing of the brush.
Working horses should be groomed
every morning and again, to a lesser
extent, after work. Grooming will ensure
freedom from skin parasites.
Don’t wash a horse except to remove
mud, etc., after work, and when you do
dry immediately to avoid danger from
greasy heels, cracked heels and mud
fever. Water interferes with the oil
glands, resulting in a dry, harsh coat.
Hints for the Farm.
“Myrrhee”: The old idea that a horse
should be kept away from water after
having eaten a large quantity of wheat is
all cockeyed. On the contrary, let it
drink enough to wash the wheat out of
the stomach into the more roomy intes-
tines, otherwise the wheat will become
swollen, owing to normal stomach mois-
ture, and rupture the animal. If it won’t
drink drench freely with water and stand
in cold water with the hoofs covered. If
a vet. isn’t immediately available, give
repeated doses of Epsom salts mixed in
plenty of water till the wheat passes
through the bowel. That may be hastened
by injections of warm soap and water
into the rectum.
“Bundalinga”: Small paddocks are best
on dairy farms, as each can be grazed
in turn and then spelled for a period to
allow the pastures to recover. In large
paddocks cattle roam all over the area,
eating out the best grasses and fouling
the others.
“Farmer Bill”: No animals suffer more
from heat than pigs. Being non-sweaters,
they depend on water and shelter to keep
their temperatures down. Shade trees are
good, but what they really need is a shed
with a straw roof and plenty of ventila-
tion. Pigs given the luxury of a mud-
wallow rarely go under to heat.
“Mullengah”: Suggestions that graziers
should pack more wool into the bales
have not achieved the success antici-
pated. Tendency of late years has been
to preserve the appearance of the wool
by not pressing too heavily, but it is
doubtful if the bulkier, springier wool of
today can be packed as heavily into bales
as the clips of a quarter of a century
ago. Present-day wool is higher yielding
and does not contain the same amount
of grease over its increased length as did
the short wool previously produced.


UNCABLED ADDITIONS
Convoy Castaways.
[The writer of this “Life” (U.S.A.) report,
Ross Russell, served as a seaman aboard a
merchant ship bound for Murmansk. His
ship was sunk by a Nazi submarine. His story
gives some inkling of what has been gone
through in convoying war material to Russia.]
Navigating a life-raft is something
like trying to row a grand piano. It
floats better but, aside from that, there
isn’t much to choose. For three days we
had been piloting our raft across the
lonely Barents Sea, far north of the Arc-
tic Circle, trying to sight land through
the fog which rose from the icy water.
Landing on Novaya Zemlya, the long,
desolate island which stretches from the
northern coast of Russia halfway to the
North Pole, we probably couldn’t have
picked a less hospitable spot on the globe.
The mate and I took 15 minutes by
the fire we made to warm ourselves, and
then we set out across country for a
lighthouse we had seen. Halfway there,
we realised that it was only a scaffold
with an automatic light.
When we reached the headland, the
mate peered through his binoculars and
saw a ship offshore three miles away.
She had no flag, but from her lines she
appeared to be an American freighter.
“Must have run into a shoal trying to
get away from a sub.,” the mate reasoned.
We tried vainly to attract attention by
waving our shirts.
On the arduous hike back we saw
dozens of sacks of flour being washed
up on the beach. There was other
wreckage, too—a damaged lifeboat, two
empty rafts, a flag locker. Back at camp
we blurted out our story and collapsed
from exhaustion.
Seven hours’ solid sleep was seven
hours in heaven. On the rafts, sleep had
been impossible. After 30 minutes you
were so cold you wanted to get at an
oar again.
The next morning we tackled the prob-
lem of food. One man came back with
four goose eggs. We ripped the leather
lining out of a steel gunner’s helmet and
tried to scramble them. They were too
near hatching for that, so we poached
them after a fashion and ate them, pin-
feathers and all, with great relish. Mean-
while, men were returning with supplies
they had salvaged from the beach.
Late that day the American ship was
contacted. She was aground and trying
to get loose. However, her captain had
set about the job of ferrying several tons
of stores ashore for our use. All of us
who were able to walk set out. Behind
we left ten men, all suffering from swol-
len and frostbitten feet.
By this time we were joined by 30
survivors of the British ship whose wreck-
age had begun to wash ashore.
On the fourth day a Russian ’plane
came swooping over to drop a note from
our second mate, writing from an out-
post in the extreme north of Russia. His
story was that the ’plane had arrived at
the first camp the day before, packed off
the whole parcel of ailing survivors, and
flown them to Russia.
After dropping the note the ’plane
went off. The next day it came back and
landed on the water below the cliff. Its
captain and first officer rowed ashore in
a rubber boat and came up to camp.
They said that other survivors had
drifted ashore at points along the Novaya
Zemlya coast. The plan now was to
concentrate these men in one spot, trans-
ship them to Archangel. Up the coast
a fast British merchantman was lying in
safe harbor, whither she had fled after
a submarine attack. We were to be
placed aboard her.
After 30 minutes’ flight we began
circling a tiny rocky archipelago where
a new British merchantman lay at anchor.
Soon we were climbing up the rope
ladder to the British ship. Friendly hands
helped us aboard. During the remainder
of that day more survivors arrived—
some by Mazuruk’s air ferry, others in
a Russian whaling schooner.
While waiting for the ship to sail we
made camp on the beach. The skipper
could spare us little food. Our situation
looked fairly grim. Most of us were in
bad physical condition. A walk of a mile
or two was exhausting. We all had
cramps, many of us diarrhoea. Bad
water, scooped out of hollows and ob-
tained from melting snow, added to our
troubles. Most of us wanted to take the
lifeboat and start down the coast for
Russia —several hundred miles away. But
we needed strength for such a trip.
It was at this point that the kids turned
up. Over the hill from our camp we
sighted a big tent. Three of the tent-
dwellers came toward us. In the dis-
tance they looked like trappers, but as
they approached camp we realised they
were children. The oldest was 15,. They
were volunteers on a duck-hunting ex-
pedition for the Soviet Government. All
were Archangel youths, most of them
“Pioneers,” a Boy Scoutlike organisation
in the U.S.S.R. They had answered a
call to go north and gather ducks and
duck eggs for the front. A schooner had
brought them north and deposited them
on this island, 700 miles from the North
Pole. For two months they would gather
eggs, salt down the ducks they harpooned,
save eider down. Then the schooner
would come back, pick them and their
needed provisions up and go back.
The kids, right down to # the eight-year-
olds, couldn’t wait to get but at the ducks
each day. They would scramble up and
down the cliffs like little monkeys, put
their frail skiff into rocky coves, as they
raided the great nests where thousands
and thousands of eider ducks came to
lay eggs each summer.
Instantly they began bringing back food
to our suffering men. They brought us
roast duck, hard-boiled eggs, a kind of
batter cake made from egg and flour.
They even went into their own stores of
salt fish and black bread. More im-
portant, they showed us how to live off
the country. Laughing and talking, they
took us on tours of the vicinity, pointed
out the safe drinking water, showed us
the best places to gather eggs, how to tell
the good eggs from the bad, and finally
how to snare the ducks which were the
only source of meat.
After more than a week a long toot
on the ship’s whistle interrupted this
pleasant chapter of our story. Our boat
party rowed out and returned with the
N.Y. “Herald Tribune.”
Why the drinking water in Africa has to be
strained and boiled.
news that we had twelve hours to get out
to the British merchantman. It marked
the end of our stay in Novaya Zemlya.
To Beat Japan.
(Condensed from a “Wall-street Journal"
article by Ray Cromley. )
The Japanese started this war in the
belief that the United Nations would
either give up or fight a war of attrition ,
and Tokyo’s leaders prepared accord-
ingly. That’s the kind of a war they
want the Allies to fight. To win, the
United Nations must attack.
The Japanese are filled with their own
propaganda of the greatness of the army,
of the softness of the Western democ-
racies. They have seen American movies.
They believe the U.S. is a nation of
dancers and cocktail-drinkers and party-
goers. They believe America is a dis-
united nation. They think the American
people have gone soft from too much
luxury. They believe in the Japanese
spirit, believe that there is no American
spirit worthy of the name.
The Japanese soldier’s mind has been
so filled with the propaganda of victory
that defeat and retreat would be so con-
fusing that anything might happen.
Death he can understand. Hunger and
privation he can understand. Sickness
and tiredness and dogged, daring fight-
ing he can understand. Defeat is a new
idea, and he will not be able to under-
stand it; therefore it will confuse him.
He will doubt everything, his commander,
his gods, even his Emperor.
The problem is to get Japanese to con-
ceive of defeat. Only the dashing, the
sensational, the imaginative in attack
will do this.
Vichy Turned Hitler Down.
(From a N.Y. “Herald Tribune" account.)
A French diplomat who was in the
active service of the Vichy regime until
the French Fleet scuttled itself at Toulon
gave the Associated Press, somewhere in
Europe, a first-hand account of events in
France following the American move
into French North Africa.
The Allied landings caught both Vichy
and Berlin by complete surprise, and in
all the Vichy negotiations with Berlin up
to the occupation of Toulon German
authorities gave the French the definite
impression they did not know what to
do in France,. The Laval regime likewise
was at a loss for a plan of action.
This French diplomat described a tur-
bulent, bewildering, 48-hour Vichy Cabi-
net meeting, where the German demand
for war was rejected despite the urgiugs
of Pierre Laval, Government chief, while
even then German hordes were swirling
around the former unoccupied zone.
Previously, he said, German authori-
ties had seemed reluctant to occupy the
rest of France, lacking sufficient troops
and fearing the reaction of the people.
Orders to proceed, however, came from
Hitler.
Upset by this unexpected Allied thrust
to the south and undecided how to meet
the new unforeseen threat, the Germans
wavered for days. They appeared par-
ticularly nervous about Toulon. The
final decision to occupy
the Mediterranean port
and seize the French Fleet
appeared to have come
likewise exclusively from
Hitler himself because of
his fear that the Allies, at
the invitation of the
French commander at
Toulon, might attempt a
landing there.
When Laval went to
Munich to confer with
German authorities as a
result of the Anglo-Ameri-
can move into Africa he
found Ribbentrop trying
to check Ciano, who had
brought an order from
Mussolini to get German
approval for the imme-
diate occupation of Nice
and the island of Corsica
by Italian troops.
During the discussion of
this question it became
obvious to Laval and his
aide that Ribbentrop was
not anxious to occupy the
Vichy zone because of the
fact that the few regular
troops kept on the demar-
cation line between the
tv/o zones were all the
Germans had available to
execute such an opera-
tion.
In the midst of these discussions came
the blunt order from Hitler to proceed
with the occupation. Hitler also sent
along his personal letter to Petain, in-
forming the aged Chief of State of the
advent of Nazi troops into the Vichy
territory. Laval brought the letter to
Petain back to Vichy, where the marshal
drafted his protest against Hitler’s viola-
tion of the 1940 armistice agreement.
Following the dispatch of the protest,
the Vichy Cabinet met for 48 hours from
Nov. 11 to Nov. 12, debating its answer
to Berlin’s demand for a declaration of
war against the Allies. The vote was
eight to six against war.
In this same Cabinet meeting, Petain
expressed his determination to remain in
France in the hope of protecting those
whom he could protect. The marshal
w'as particularly concerned with the esti-
mated 22,000 Frenchmen of the formerly
unoccupied zone who were arrested or
sought at the order of the Gestapo-
French prisoners who had previously
escaped from German camps into the
Vichy zone, and Alsatians who had re-
fused to remain in their homes and had
gone into the Vichy zone after the col-
lapse of France.
Dollars on the Warpath.
(Condensed from “United States News. ")
A potent secret weapon whose im-
portance can hardly be overestimated, the
dollar is helping win the war on all fronts.
Hitler’s marks mean little more than
waste paper to the world at large. The
franc, the lira, the yen, the currency of
Axis-occupied countries are backed only
by Axis arms, and hopes. The American
dollar is backed by four-fifths of the
world’s gold now held by the united
States ; also by the entire resources of
America plus American arms. In eager
demand in every quarter of the globe, it
is being used with telling effect wherever
the American flag is sent. Much of its
use is secret and cannot be disclosed till
the war ends. Here and there, as in
North Africa, it is being used openly.
In Algeria, American gold went in with
the troops. Openly, Arab tribesmen are
paid $5 in gold for each lost American
flier brought back to an Allied base from
the desert; $lO when the parachute comes
back as well. Secretly, American money
is being used in ways known only to the
High Command.
In the total warfare now waged against
the Axis, gold is a fair weapon. It speaks
a language understood by honest men
and rogues alike, by friend and foe.
Americans took a plentiful supply to
Algeria. To the Philippines, before Japan
triumphed there, American money was
flown by ’plane, in bales of $250,000 to
a ’plane. It paid smugglers to get food
and supplies to General Mac Arthur.
In China, American dollars were buy-
ing safe-conduct for supplies to the
Chinese armies long before Pearl Harbor.
Corrupt, greedy and out to make their
personal fortunes, Japanese generals
guaranteed transport through their lines
of supplies intended for their enemies.
What the situation is there today is not
disclosed ; it may have changed, although
Japanese generals still are Japanese
generals and dollars still are dollars.
In Spain, American dollars were spent
for art objects, giving hard-pressed
Spaniards a break and helping create
good will for America. In England,
where American forces are paid in
dollars, the inflow of this money, freely
spent, has helped cement the ties of
friendship. In Mexico, American dollars
have ushered in a period of almost un-
precedented prosperity. Elsewhere in
Central and South America the dollar is
working 24 hours a day to help win the
war.
In North Africa the dollars scattered
by armed forces of the United States
already have brought a great change.
Wilting morale of the native population
has been revived ; despair has been suc-
ceeded by hope ; shopkeepers are gay
again. The slipping French franc has
been stabilised. Sullenness has given way
to friendliness.
Buried at Fort Knox, Ky., and at
other points in the United States there is
more than $22,000,000,000 in gold—a
powerful secret weapon which all the
fiihrers, duces and mikados in the world
can’t match.
Feeding a Starving World.
(Condensed from a “Collier’s" article by
Herbert Hoover, former U.S. President and the
world’s leading authority on this subject.)
A starving world must be fed after
this war ends. Even if feeding it had not
been promised, we would have to do it
if we want to make a lasting peace in-
stead of lasting anarchy. And we will
need to do it unless we are willing to
stand by and watch millions of human
beings die after we have made gigantic
sacrifices to give them a chance to live.
If this war stopped tomorrow, there
would be millions of permanently debili-
tated adults and millions of stunted
children. But there will always be mil-
lions who can be saved. If European
civilisation is to live, they must be fe .
And especially this must be done for the
children, or we shall be faced with a
generation of physical degenerates a
potential gangsters. . ,
That there is and will be . fa
little demonstration. Already 148, >
people in occupied countries in E P
and Asia are short of food; millions
them are actually starving, and our allies
are obviously running on very s
rations. 4 „
Nation-wide hunger and starvation
mean grim suffering, incalculable gn
over wilting children, physical degenera-
tion, stunted growth, distorted, ern i -
tered minds and death. Its lasting effec
is one of degree and time. Adults can
recuperate from months of undernourish-
ment. Children can stand less. In fact,
the undersized, rickets and the death-
rate among children are the sensitive
barometers of starvation.
From all food shortages comes the
danger of pestilence. People do not often
die directly from starvation. Their re-
sistance is weakened and they fall easy
prey to contagions. Moreover, people
consume their available fat supplies and


STATE EXPRESS
m
cwu/zu/s oi&eLde!
5
Lend your Money to hasten Victory.
Buy £lO National Savings Bonds or
War Savings Certificates,
ISS9D-11 4*
Make Certain of
YOUR ESTATE
in the Uncertain Years ahead!
19A3
Your responsibility for the welfare of
your dependents in the years ahead was
never greater than at present.
Make your Will NOW—or bring it up to
dale—choose a trustee and executor that
is experienced, independent and always
available—such as The Union Trustee!
Expert guidance of well-trained officers
helps you to interpret your wishes exactly,
and the Company’s reputation is a practi-
cal guarantee that your instructions will
be correctly carried out in administering
your estate. Write, phone or call now.
The Union Trustee
COMPANY OF AUSTRALIA LIMITED
Established 1885
The only Trustee Company having offices each zvith its own Board of Directors
and Management in three States —New South Wales, Victoria and Queensland .
2 O’CONNELL STREET, SYDNEY
N.S.W. DIRECTORATE:
Hon Sir Henry Braddon, K.B.E. (Chairman); Colin A,
Sinclair (Vice-Chairman); Hon. Sir Graham Waddell, K.8.E.,
M.L.C.; James Kidd; A. E. Heath, C.M.G.; Robert C.
Wilson; Manager: J. G. H. Shipway.
d
have little or none left for soap. Un-
cleanliness invites such scourges as typhus.
There is another vital peril in this
question. Unless these masses of people
in scores of nations can have food and be
protected from pestilence, there can be
no social or political stability upon which
peace can be built.
We had a parallel experience with this
problem after the first World War. In
that famine, except for American food
preparedness, food strategy and Ameri-
can intervention, there would have been
the greatest sacrifice of human life in all
history—even more devastating than that
which followed the Thirty Years’ War,
when one-third of the population of
Europe is said to have died.
After the first World War 28 nations
outside of Russia were involved. They
comprised over 375,000,000 people. After
the present war these numbers will appar-
ently be increased by 15 or 20 millions,
and this time Russia and China must be
added.
In the last war defeated Russia, with
roughly 140,000,000 people, was famine-
stricken in certain areas. We made an
effort to furnish food, but Russia refused
relief because the Allies stipulated that
she must stop fighting her neighbors. It
was not until the renewed famine in 1922
that we were able to assist her on a large
scale.
Russia will need food help during this
war ; and afterward, with lands despoiled
and scorched by the Germans, there will
be tens of millions to add to the prospec-
tive totals.
China’s normal food supply is a bare
subsistence level and therefore shortage
spreads disaster even faster than in coun-
tries of higher standards. Despoiled and
ravaged by Japan, she will have scores of
millions to add to these vast totals.
Therefore it is possible to estimate that
over 500,000,000 people will be suffering
from some degree of food shortage after
this war, and that some European coun-
tries —Norway, Holland, Belgium, France,
Greece, Poland, Yugoslavia and the Baltic
States —will be much worse off than last
time. Certainly the amount of food re-
quired to meet the emergency cannot be
less than after the first World War, even
if the war should end tomorrow. The
ultimate need will depend on the length
of the war, as that controls the degree
of the demoralisation in domestic sup-
plies.
Canada’s War Effort.
[Supplementing particulars of Canada’s war
effort in B. 30/12/’42, these further details are
from a statement by Canadian Minister of
Munitions and Supply Clarence Decatur Howe.]
Forty-five per cent, of the supplies
being shipped to the British Isles and Rus-
sia is convoyed by Canadian warships.
Forty per cent, of all the aluminium
being produced in North America is from
Canada, as well as virtually all the nickel
and a substantial percentage of copper,
zinc and some of the vital alloys.
Canada’s merchant shipping tonnage
for 1942 totalled 1,000,000 tons; for
1943 it will be 1,500,000 tons.
Airplane production is about 5000 war-
craft a year, as compared with 100 in
1939. Canada gets virtually all its air-
plane engines from the United States,
but is turning out nine different makes
of ’planes, including trainers, Lancaster
bombers, light bombers, night fighters
and reconnaissance machines, and is pre-
paring to make Curtiss dive-bombers.
Canada is also turning out the Mos-
quito bomber, which is built entirely of
moulded plywood. The Mosquito is be-
coming one of the most useful ’planes
in the equipment of the United Nations.
Despite its wooden construction, or be-
cause of it, the new ’plane has stood up
well under combat conditions.
Seventy per cent, of the Dominion’s
total war production is going to the
United Nations. Fifty per cent, of it is
being shipped for Great Britain, either
for her own purposes or those of Russia,
and 20 per cent, is going to the Pacific
area on behalf of the United States.
Direct shipments to Russia from Canada
already total more than $100,000,000,
among the important items being tanks.
What Americans are Saying.
(Condensed from various acknowledged sources .)
Reason for the U.S. censorship regulations on
foreign news about which some British corre-
spondents complain: A two-hour scoop by
Radio Berlin on President Roosevelt’s Labor
Day speech. Incredible as it seems, Germans
heard news of the speech before Americans did.
It happened this way: The text was distributed
in Washington in advance, as is customary.
It was cabled to London, distributed from there
by a newsagency, subject to release when
delivered. Berlin picked it up on its radio
monitoring system, rebroadcast it on the
regular bands. Now speeches can’t be trans-
mitted abroad until they’re delivered.— Scripps-
Howard newspapers’ Washington column.
America laughed when it read that things
were so bad in some of the Axis countries that
the tips of cows’ tails were being cut off
just for the hair (enough was being left though,
the dispatches said, so the cows could still
brush off flies). The truth is, such hair is very
much in demand in America, too —as a highly-
resilient, moisture-resistant stuffing for army
mattresses. Fort Worth, Tex., alone is turning
out about 150 tons of it a year.— N.Y. “Post.”
* * • »
President Roosevelt speaking: “Philippines
President Quezon and 1 have agreed to set
up a joint commission of our two countries to
study the economic situation which will face
the nation which is soon to be, and to work
out means of preserving its stability and above
all its security. This typifies our grim deter-
mination and our supreme confidence that we
shall drive the Japanese army out of the Philip-
pines—to the last man.”
Throughout the last six months there have
been constantly recurring reports that a Japanese
attack against Russia’s Far Eastern outpost was
imminent. Recently returning visitors from the
Soviet capital report that Stalin has been pre-
pared for a Far Eastern attack by Japan for
close to a year. A Japanese attack was sup-
posed to take place last June. The Far Eastern
Red Army was geared to meet a Japanese
offensive of more than 1,500,000 Nipponese
troops. More than 75 divisions of Japanese
soldiers had been brought to the Russian
border. The offensive was called off. Hitler’s
failure to capture Stalingrad and launch the
planned attack on Moscow helped the Japanese
to decide. The powerful Russian base at
Vladivostok is ready to meet any invasion force.
Recent visitors to Vladivostok report tremen-
dous activity by thousands of Russian workers
who have constructed secret underground
air bases and carefully-concealed submarine
supply depots. Observers who have recently
flown over the Trans-Siberian railroad and over
Siberia express amazement at the thorough-
ness of Soviet preparation in the Far East. —
Johannes Steel; N.Y. “Post.”
* » ¥ *
We believe it is eminently fair that the
National Labor Relations Board has set up the
principle of equal pay for women who do
work equal to that of men. American women
are just emerging into the full part that the
struggle has assigned them. The Office of War
Information reveals that 4,000,000 of the
15,000,000 women gainfully employed in this
country are working in the war industries.
There were only 1,400,000 engaged in war pro-
duction in 1940. By the end of 1943, the
0.W.1. predicts, the U.S.A. will have 6,000,000
women in the war factories alone, and this
figure may be raised to 7,000,000. Also to be
taken into account are the 150,000 U.S. women
who will be in the W.A.A.C.S., the 11,000 in
the W.A.V.E.S., 80,000 in the S.P.A.R.S., and
hundreds of thousands in nursing, the Red
Cross and the voluntary services. This is a
vast array of women.-— N. Y. “Daily Mirror.”
sfc ♦ Hc #
Even in Soviet Russia, where they have been
experimenting with various forms of socialism,
they discovered that it was impossible to find
men of responsibility without providing the
advantages of increased compensation. They in-
stituted the graduated wage scale among their
wage laborers, providing for extra compen-
sation for the higher grade of work and
culminating in the speed-up and the stretch-out
of the Stakhanov system, which produces higher
pay for better results. Yet we in the United
States have fallen for the economic and social
error of levelling to be applied to all our people
except those who possess inherited wealth. It
is always easy to level downward. It is always
simple to place a ceiling on human ambition.
The history of the United States since the
days of the Puritans has been a recital of ambi-
tion and capacity combining to build a mighty
world here —a world in which the individual
took the risks and in which the individual
reaped the rewards of capacity and achievement.
We are killing all that now. We are withdraw-
ing the rewards and leaving only the risks. We
are destroying the hopes and leaving only the
anxieties. That is a formula of defeat.— George
Sokolsky, N.Y. “Sun.”
* * * *
Reports leaking out of the Dutch East Indies
indicate the Japs have done an excellent job
of propagandising against the white man. Their
argument is: “The white man took all your
wealth. And when you were attacked he ran
away.” This propaganda made headway, and
many observers believe the Dutch will have great
difficulty taking back their South Pacific Empire,
regardless of the Japs.— N.Y. “Daily Mirror.”
* * * *
111-feeling between the German and Italian
armies, always noticeable, has been increased by
the reported abandonment by Rommel of entire
divisions of Italian troops after his defeat in
Egypt. At Bari, Italy, Italian soldiers, learning
that German soldiers were getting larger rations
than they, seized these in a market-place. A
fight with bayonets followed and many were
wounded on both sides. Growing insubordina-
tion in the Italian army is reputed. A ship
recently took on board at night at Civita
Vecchia 570 manacled soldiers and non-com-
missioned officers said to have protested against
curtailment in the Government’s allowances to
soldiers’ families. The men were said to
have been taken to a concentration camp in Sar-
dinia already holding 500 soldiers under sen-
tences of 15 to 30 years of penal servitude for
“insubordination.” At another such camp in
Sardinia, according to the reports, there are
654 soldiers charged with being anti-Fascist.
The latest group to reach there came from
North Africa. — London correspondent N.Y.
“Herald Tribune.”
* * r- *
Giving a picture of the factors that con-
tributed toward the victory over Rommel, Air
Chief Marshal Sir Arthur William Tedder pointed
out that, while air squadrons had softened up
the enemy by pounding his supplies and punish-
ing his forward troops, it was the ground forces
which made the break-through, and they should
be given credit for it. If there was any single
key to victory that key was close co-ordination
and co-operation by land and air. Confirming
that the Allies had air superiority throughout the
battle and still have it, he added: “Air superi-
ority does not mean superiority in numbers.”
He said that, while the Allies recently achieved
superiority in numbers, they enjoyed air superi-
ority even when they were numerically in-
ferior. — Cairo correspondent N.Y. “Herald
Tribune.”
* * * *
If the United Nations can make the Mediter-
ranean a safe route for passage for their ship-
ping, India will be moved about 6000 miles
closer to the East Coast of the United States
and the British ports. This will mean an effec-
tive increase in the amount of materiel that
can be carried to Asia in the same amount of
shipping. By the same token, it will lessen the
distance to Russia, increase the flow of United
Nations aid to that country and contribute to
the weakening of Japan’s partner in the war
on Russia. — Washington correspondent N.Y.
“Times.”
* * * *
It is idle to assume too much from Japan’s
loss of carriers. In many cases she has paid
with her carriers for the conquest of strategic
bases commanding long stretches of water.
Where she can thus use land-based ’planes in
place of carrier-borne ’planes, these carrier
losses have been worth the price. We will need
more carriers than Japan has if we are to drive
her from these bases. For carrier-borne ’planes
are at a disadvantage against land-based ’planes.
—Eliot Janew'ay; “Asia and the Americas.”
* * * *
During the three years since Canada went to
war, and especially during the past year, the
tendency has been steadily toward Govern-
mental administration of everybody’s life. So
long as the danger of losing the war existed
or continues there is little doubt that this con-
trol can and will be maintained, but just as
soon as victory seems certain those whose busi-
ness it is to try to keep wages and prices stable
foresee that resistance will begin and their task
will become immensely more difficult. In some
small measure that resistance may be said to
have already begun with the improvement of
the situation in Russia and Africa, and the way
people have begun to think was shown by the
approval of the press to a speech by Walter
Zeller, a Montreal business executive, who
has served in two Government departments as
a “dollar-a-year man.” He stated frankly that
political freedom and economic freedom are in-
separable and that “economic domination by
government has never brought enduring
security, let alone progress, to any people at any
time.” — Ottawa correspondent, N.Y. “Times:”
* * * *
The elimination of Sir Stafford Cripps from the
British War Cabinet and from the deputy
leadership of the British Parliament was in-
evitable, as Sir Stafford was a creature of a
policy which is no longer needed. Because of
his Left-Wingism it was assumed, when that
was important, that Sir Stafford would be useful
in winning Soviet Russia away from the Axis
and over to the Allied side. As long as the
Stalin-Hitler alliance stood Sir Stafford’s Marx-
ism did him or his country no serv'ce in Russia,
which pursues its own strictly nationalist policy
without regard to public utterances. When,
however, Hitler attacked Russia Cripps be-
came immensely important to both Britain
and Russia. Britain recognised that in Russia
lay relief from the harrowing blitz that had
shaken England to the marrow; Soviet Russia
needed to be sure that antipathy for Communism
would not handicap the urgency of an alliance.
Cripps did a job at that point; but his weight
undoubtedly was exaggerated both by Gov-
ernment propaganda, which played this situa-
tion up, and by the liberal writers and publi-
cists, who were saved from the ignominy of the
Hitler-Stalin alliance. — George E. Sokolsky;
N.Y. “Sun.”


» '
■"DEFEMCf ,
t «ait iot weather.
WOll , a .m .... *» S ""'
“Sneed «>£» *«*<; lw *’' _fr..W>. »■ Ro ""' e,t '
J save our ours „ terrain »
wx
d 5- fP ‘. ’“ STb? engine power h &
factor furnish^
land tor Lantic «*£“ bel ongs. , mone ,
ot p
:r u s se a t o*« -s ent wot
« * iG
task from Ibe b aCKS
land lor giganuc bel gS .
They are tak B aC Vunes—' f pounds 1
it on to P o '! 6 f Jreds of thousands ol P
1 o*“ UrS “‘ "'° i rk .' made „{ the - lhC
1
furtherance Q*
Irrrnr 1r
t—. * ■ *
m
P&r
C 'T* j
-s«yp
WH
V» o' ;
V.
o %&■ >
■><
t*J
CAT E R Pill AR
REG. U.S. PAT. OFF.
TRACK-TYPE TRACTORS and WAUGH & JOSEPHSON EARTH-MOVING EQUIPMENT
Distributors for New South Wales and Queensland
WAUGH & JOSEPHSON PTY. LTD.^®^
Unwin's Bridge Rd.. St. Peters, Sydney. 'Phone: LA 3321 Marquis St.. Gunnedah. 'Phone: Gunnedah 326
Service Engineers: Mr. J. A. Rathbone, 57 Cambridge Street, South Grafton; Mr. R. Tweedle, Port Macquarie.
Phone; Port Macquarie 81; Mr. D. McDougall, 96 Kincaid Street, Wagga. 'Phone: 2886; 102 Melbourne St., South
Brisbane. 'Phone: J 1456; Rankin Street, Innisfail. 'Phone: Innisfail 475
10 for 1/1
20 for 2/2
Always
Always
fresh . .
smooth
Carreras Ltd.—ls 4 Years’ Reputation for Quality
f
A foolish spender is a traitor.
The right place for your money
is in £lO National Savings Bonds
5064 8
Service Department.
Information Sought.
(1) Number of Anzacs killed in action,
wounded and taken prisoner on Gallipoli?
(2) Number of Australians taken prisoner in
France? (3) Some particulars about the Lost
Battalion of the U.S. army in the Argonne ?
(1) Australians, killed 8709, wounded 17,900,
p.o.w. 70; M.L., killed 2695, wounded 4752,
po.w. nil. (2) 3861. (3) The “Lost Battalion”
comprised a mixed battalion (first and second)
of the 308th Infantry under command of
Major C. W. Whittlesey. It was surrounded
by Germans near Binarville from October 2
■until relieved on the evening of October 7,
1918, by the 77th Division in an attack in
conjunction with the 28th and 82nd Divisions,
resulting in the enemy being driven from the
Argonne.
« * * *
How many members of Federal Parliament
and of State Parliaments are returned soldiers ?
The R.S.S.A.I.L.A. supplies the following
figures for both Federal Houses and for the*
Legislative Assemblies of the States:
Number
No. of Re- in Re-
Mem- turned Cabi- turned
bers. Soldiers, nets. Soldiers.
Commonwealth —
H. of Reps. .. 76 22 19 3*
Senate .. 36 11
War Council.. 10
War Cabinet.. 5
States —
N.S.W. .. 90 12 13 2
Victoria .. 65 21 8 2
South Australia 39 10 8 2
Tasmania .. 30 11 9 2
Queensland ..61 12 11 1
Westralia .. 45 16 8 2
* One Indian Army; two S. African service.
Brief Answers.
P.S.J.: (1) No danger to life, but some-
times, if operation is delayed, a painful abscess
may develop. (2) No. (3) Would not be con-
sidered medically fit unless a successful opera-
tion is performed... .M. 8.: Four suggestions:
Gundamain, “house on a river”; Tarcoola,
“river bend”; Ulmarra, “turn on a river”;
Wooroowoolgan, “bend of river” N.F.T.:
Your chance depends on the nature of the medi-
cal discharge. Give particulars and include
mention of any qualifications in wireless opera-
tion you have, and write to the Merchant Navy
Office, York-street North, Sydney R.E.8.:
Apply to your local man-power officer or write
to Brisbane head office, stating full particulars.
. ...E.J.8.: Try “Australian Journal,” 350-52
Swanston-street, Melbourne J.P.8.; Late
Cpl. Edmondson, V.C., belonged to the 2/17th
Battalion, and won the V.C. at Tobruk on
April 13-14, 1941... .E.G.M.: Currawong Pub-
lishing Co., 32 Jamieson-street, Sydney, should
be able to sell you a copy... .Tralee: Blue
Spec was by True Blue (Hotchkiss-Rose of
Wellington) from Specula, by Splendor from
Bonny Spec... .E>.B.: (1) No. (2) Yes. (3)
If you are left without adequate provision for
your proper maintenance, education and ad-
vancement in life you may obtain such pro-
vision for that purpose as the Court thinks fit.
S.W.C.: The Commissioner is acting in
accordance with the Income Tax Act... .S.J.H.:
Husband’s and wife’s incomes are taxed sepa-
rately A.G J.; (1) If you mean has any
member of the family a legal right to read a
will before death of the testator, no. A will
can only be altered by the person who made it,
and any alterations must then be done in proper
legal form. (2) Anything from 10s. 6d. to 50
guineas, according to length and complexity.
. ...R.J.: (1) Cost of taxing depends on size
of bill. (2) Send it to the Registrar in Probate.
(3) Desirable to employ a solicitor. (4) Very
little. (5) Yes. (6) You could get a refund.
. ...E.T.: You are entitled to receive while
totally incapacitated, for yourself £3, for de-
pendent wife £l, for dependent children Bs. 6d.
each weekly, provided that total payment must
not exceed £5 a week... .C.C.S.: Archer (1861
and 1862) and Peter Pan (1932 and 1934) won
two Melbourne Cups. Poseidon won once —■
1906.
Answers to Correspondents
Name and address must appear on the MS. No
liability is undertaken re contributions voluntarily
submitted; and no MS. vrill he returned unless
stamps accompany. MS. should be addressed to
the Editor.
The Muse aroused:
F.D.:
To the city then I came:
The folk I met were distant,
Made me feel quite shy.
I’ll admit a few were friendly,
But most of them were narks.
They didn’t have the homely way
As they have in good old Parkes.
M. and K.S.:
The Volunteer Air Observers Corps
Does some jolly good work for the war.
They sit in the sun or the rain all day
And they give up their time without any pay.
. ...E.M.M.: Rehash of a thousand other
poems about trees, bees, ghostly gums, youth s
golden dreams and books of memories....
F.M.E.: Not quite W.C.8.: Try it on the
lady F.R.8.: Just a thought W.W.T.:
“Life” doesn’t rhyme with “scythe”; your
“doths” are dreadful; and the notepaper s
intolerable L.L.: “‘You can’t get in those
pearly gates —what makes you think you can?
1 looked him in the face and said, T loved
my fellow man.’ ” Who are you? Abou Ben
Adhem? ... .J.K.8.: Close... .M.K.; All right
to compare airmen to birds, but “spurs are
sprouting from their feet” is carrying it a
bit too far A.E.D.: When the wandering
stockman gets a letter from Fred saying aged
mother is dying we always send him home for
the lick of his life... .A.H.M.; Room for
four harrowing lines about the abo. and his
faithful hound: —
In his mia-mia by the billabong
Since he lost his dog now things went wrong.
Day by day he grew morose and thin—
He was bone-pointed, which ended him.
LM.: Try elsewhere... .L.P.; Horrible pome
might make acceptable par D.8.H.:
“Moon” rhymed with “room,” “drum” with
“son”—and that’s your opening! G.D.W.:
That’s the ending of All Quiet on the Western
Front F.R.C.: What, if anything, is the
meaning of “They yearn the storm-fury when
it hies”? C.A.A.: Might click with a
woman’s paper.... 8.M.E.: Come again....
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC)
CORRESPON DENTS
P.C.L.: Muddy wash, and a forest of in-
scribed balloons tied to characters’ lips....
Bert C.: Why is the dinosaur fishing with its
tail over an obviously twentieth-century well?


fan you
rely upon
an Individual ?
A Trustee should administer your Estate to
the greatest advantage of your beneficiaries,
a task needing business wisdom, constant
devotion of time to the duties involved over
a considerable period, and sound technical
knowledge. He must be completely trust-
worthy. Should you find a friend possessing
all these qualifications and appoint him
Trustee—he may die before completing his
duties—age may sap his wisdom—misfortune
may befall him.
But should you nominate The Trustees
Executors and Agency Company Limited,
these circumstances cannot arise. Consti-
tuted under Act of Parliament, and answer-
able to the Courts, it is absolutely trustworthy.
It devotes its whole time and energy to the
administration of Trusts. It has the necessary
knowledge of the technicalities relating to
Trusts, is controlled by Directors of proved
capacity, and ... the Company “goes on
for ever”.
Charges are moderate. For details write or
call upon:
THE TRUSTEES EXECUTORS
1 BLIGH ST., SYDNEY, AND AT 401 COLLINS ST., MELBOURNE
Capital (paid and uncalled ) and Reserves and
Undivided Projits, £959,622.
BOARD OF DIRECTORS:
Sir Alexander Stewart (Chairman) ;
D. Stuart Murray; Sir Claude Reading, K.C.M.G.;
gir Lennon Raws, 0.8. E.; G. S. Colman, 0.8. E.;
NEW SOUTH WALES DIRECTORS:
Sir Claude Reading, K.C.M.G. (Chairman) ;
W. D. Stewart; R. T. Hilder.
N.S.W. MANAGER: J. W. Russell French.
=• gen. Manager: W. Sydney Jones, Manager: K. M. Hughes
and Agency Company Ltd.
Incorporated in Victoria in 1878
Sir Alan Kewton.
The Federal Mutual Insurance Company
of Australia Limited
FIRE, MARINE AND ACCIDENT INSURANCES
EFFECTED AT LOWEST CURRENT RATES
Prompt and liberal settlements of claims.
Directors: THOMAS A. MAGNEY, Chairman; P. R. Baker; F. W. Duesbwry; Sydney Sampson.
R. A. MANZIE, Managing Director.
'Phone (three lines): 87361. Branches in All States. 129 Pitt Street, Sydney.
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
Herald and Weekly Times, Ltd. (Melb.)
, Dividends
Pref. To Re-
Sept., Profit. 6J p.c. Ord. Reserves, serves.
£ £ £ £ £
1932. .191,105 8125 10 p.c.=110,000 72,980 148,206
1933. .182,118 8125 10 „ ~110,000 63,993 212,199
1934. 8125 10 „ ~110,000 68,623 280.822
Deficit.
Depreciation reserve deducted from
plant in balance sheet, £366,139.. 85,317
1935. .209,707 8125 10 p.c.=110,000 t
Written off, £41,031.. 34,<66
Reserves.
1936. .226,529 8125 12 p.c.=132,000 1 , . 9QI
Written off, £41,113.. .. | 45)291 10)52 °
1937. .259,659 8125 12 p.c.=132,000 1 vs nn i os =o R
Written off. £41,533.. ’..(78,001 88,026
1938. .295,770 8125 14 p.c.=154,000 f Rq 17 . q
Written off, £43,682.. .. J 89)963 178)489
1939. .280,984 8125 14 p.c.=154,000 I sfu 9 - n 9q ,
Written off. £47,055 .. f 71)804 2j0)293
—Pref. N
64 p.c. 6 p.c. Ordinary.
1940. .240,333 8125 1,031 14 p.c.=154,000 1 9fi9 qq „
Written off. £44,476.. .. . .( 282)993
1941. .229,866 8125 16,500 14 p.c.=154,000 } 9q „ 9ftq
Written off, £43,945 ( 290)280
1942. .228,122 8125 16,500 14 p.c.=154,000 f 9QF - ,, L
Written off, £44,372 ) - ,95 ’ 41
During the year Theodore Fink, who
had sat at the board table for 53 years
and was chairman for the last 36 of
them, died. The vacant chair was filled
by knight Keith Murdoch, who thus be-
comes both chairman and managing
director.
Everything that competes with our war
needs has been rationed or controlled in
one way and another in order to maxi-
mise the national effort. Among other
things, the need to conserve dollar ex-
change and Jhe shortage of shipping
space, now more acute than ever, led to
rationing of newsprint. To Australia’s
largest newspaper organisation that has
meant that the size of the “Herald,” Mel-
bourne’s unchallenged evening broad-
sheet, has been reduced from its pre-war
186 pages a week to 52 pages a week,
and the “Sun,” morning competitor of
the “Age” and “Argus,” from 294 pages
to 88 pages a week. The same sort of
thing has happened to the co.’s half-
dozen other publications, to the “Courier-
Mail” (Brisbane) and “Advertiser” and
“News” (Adelaide), in which it is also
interested. A credit for nearly a million
dollars which the co. had built up in New
York to meet payments on a long-term
American contract for newsprint has
gone into the national pool, having been
taken over by the Treasury. Locally,
newsprint has been cut to 11\ p.c. of
pre-war consumption, and stocks —H. and
W. T. stores were full—have been more
or less pooled for the benefit of all Aus-
tralian publishers. On the basis of pres-
ent size and circulation of its journals,
the co. has enough paper in stock to
carry on for 18 months.
Although circulations have been well
maintained, advertising revenue has suf-
fered because of the cut in size and re-
strictions placed on retail and other
advertising. Also, war and other news-
gathering, publishing and paper costs
have climbed with alarming speed—news-
print alone, around £lB per ton in 1939,
now costs about £32 per ton —while
censorship of news and loss of staff to
the fighting and other services have mul-
tiplied the difficulties of management.
Further, the taxgatherer has cut deeply
into takings, and threatens to dig deeper
still. All this, however, has been largely
offset by savings in the volume of news-
print used and by extra revenue from a
lift from to 2d. per copy in price
of the “Herald” and “Sun” —each paper
claims the largest Commonwealth
circulation of its kind. The co.’s
broadcasting stations also showed a
“good return.” Another contributor
to the pool (for the first time)
was Australian Newsprint Mills Pty., the
venture on the Derwent (Tas.) in which
H. and W. T. was the prime mover. It is
now turning out about 40 p.c. of Aus-
tralia’s presept newsprint consumption.
Plans for extension of the mill have been
abandoned until after the war.
After providing £156,000 (up £16,000)
for taxation and £44,372 for depre-
ciation, the board figured net profit £2171
short of previous year’s at £183,750, or
enough to meet pref. requirements and
show 14.4 p.c. on the £1,100,000 of ord.
capital. Depreciation allowance, how-
ever, has long been in excess of actual
requirements for the purpose, and has
therefore been included with profits in
the table and then shown as written off.
On this basis, last term’s profit was
enough to pay the prefs. and show 18.5
p.c. on ord. capital as against 18.6, 21,
26.1 and 22 p.c. for four preceding years.
The div. was kept at 14 p.c.
Here are the solid finances:
1936. 1940. 1941. 1942.
Stock.. £150,729 £416,322 £326,911 £322,687
Debtors,
etc. . . 214,911 189,316 175,891 144,219
Shares in
other cos. 337,840 726,985 890,868 893.470
Cash, etc. 39,556 16,933 132,179 227,826
Liquids £743,036 £1,349,556 £1,525,849 £1,588,202
Liabilities* 138,496 115,540 162,646 152,866
Surplus £604,540 £1,234,016 £1,363,203 £1,435,336
Freeholds,
etc. . . 421,364 465,456 468,958 475,025
Machinery
and plant 320,721 238,052 198,439 163,896
Net
assets £1,346,625 £1,937,524 £2,030,600 £2,074,257
* Excluding tax reserve, now £178,531.
The cash holding grew £95,647, and there
was an improvement in the more or less
liquid surplus of £72,133.
J. Fielding and Co. (Sydney)
Net To Re- Re-
Sept., Profit. Dividends. serves. serves.
1932.. 39,684 15 p.c. = 22,600 17,084 122,275
1933.. 32,496 15 „ „ 27,000 5,496 127,771
1934.. 46,153 15 ~ ~ 27,000 19,153 146,924
Reserves capitalised, £lB,OOO .. 128,924
1935.. 49,425 15 p.c. = 30,000 19,425 148,349
1936.. 48,269 15 „ „ 30,000 18,269 166,618
Reserves disappear, £lOOO .. .. 165,618
1937.. 52,980 18J p.c. = 37,968 15,012 180,630
Assets revalued, £75,000 . . . . 255,630
Reserves capitalised, £29,214 .. 226,416
1938.. 54,701 15 p.c. = 35,057 19,644 246,060
1939 -- 56)136 15 „,, 35,222 20,914 266,974
1940.. 59,527 15 „ „ 35,387 24,140 291,114
1J42.. 61,194 17£ „ „ 41,285 19,909 327,216
Performances exhibited in that table are
all the more remarkable when it is con-
sidered that over half the share-register
total has come from retained profits.
Visible reserves at the end of Sept, were
still heaped £91,303 in excess of capital,
and there are provisions not so obvious.
In the seven years that depreciation has
been disclosed, £152,885 has been struck
off fixed assets, and it is admitted that
other book values aren’t stretched to their
full length. The maximum 78s. now bid
for the scrip is therefore prompted by
more discriminating considerations than
the existing scarcity of investment
avenues.
Present muscle is due mainly to the
progressive policy of keeping plant
abreast of every modern development out
of earnings, and that has benefited the
public, as well as shareholders. Few as
a result can compete with Fieldings in
either price or quality when it comes to
the cardboard boxes, cartons and corru-
gated fibre containers the co. and an
associate in Melbourne turn out; direct
color printing, inconsistent with a war
economy, normally enhances the pro-
ducts. It took the war of 1914-18 to
overcome prejudice against cardboard
packings and give the co. its chance.
Conservation of tin-plate and glass food
containers in the present conflict has again
widened opportunities, and so has the
interruption to imported softwoods used
in box-making, which used to take
around £400,000 annually out of the
country. Ability to capitalise these de-
velopments has been limited by the call
for Government purposes and the avail-
ability of raw materials. These come
from the local mills, which have increased
production by 45 p.c., but are handi-
capped by a shortage of waste products.
“Machinery operated much in excess
of usual working hours,” chairman James
Fielding, who still manages affairs, re-
ports of last year, and sales reached new
levels. Despite lower investment income,
the co. was thus able to meet bumper
tax and other outgoings with contraction
of only £2lBl in net earnings. That was
after depreciation of £16,055, mainly to
reduce freeholds. The £61,194 of profit
was 25.9 p.c. on capital, against 26.8 and
25.2 p.c. for the two years before. Still,
the ’4l shilling bonus was cut in two,
reducing the full distribution to \l\ p.c.,
and bumping up the liability for undis-
tributed-profits tax.
Premises include the island Chalmers-
street manufacturing block and a string
of Sydney properties heavily depreciated
on the low figures at which acquired.
Property and land tax have lately
shrunk their remunerativeness:
1930. 1939. 1941. 1942.
Paid capital £149,500 £235,913 £235,913 £235,913
Creditors .. 17,531 53,648* 115,320* 140,789*
Freeholds . . 42,046 153,639 137,782 124,032
Plant, etc. . . 33,606 25,532 24,900 23,045
Stocks . . 26,434 33,575 40,028 32,809
Book debts, cash
and investm’ts 185,119 352,635 476,473 538,776
* Including provision for taxation.
The omnibus last item is intriguing but
inscrutable. It moved up another
£62,303 last year, a trend which appears
partly connected with the tax provisions
included with creditors. On the raw-
materials side, the co. is rather dependent
on a smooth flow of outside supplies.
McWhirters, Ltd. (Brisbane)
Net _ To Re- Re-
July, Profit. Dividends. serves, serves.
£ £ £ £
1932.. 27,500 5 p.c. =: 27,500 125,000
Loss.
1933.. 4,000 2 „ „ 11,000 110,000
Profit.
1934.. 22,148 4 ~ „ 22,000 148 110,148
1935.. 26,200 41 „ „ 24,750 1,450 111,598
1936.. 22,348 4J „ „ 23,375 110,571
1937.. 23,331 4*,, „ 23,375 110,527
1938.. 28,065 5 „ „ 27,500 1,165 111,092
1939.. 31,428 5 ~ „ 27,500 3,928 115,620
1940.. 37,072 6 ~ ~ 33,000 4,072 119,692
1941.. 34,605 6 ~ „ 33,000 1,605 121,297
1942.. 40,664 6,, ~ 33,000 7,664 128,961
Trade and industry, and civilian con-
sumption, have never been more subject
to opposing influences than at present.
On the one hand has been monetary ex-
pansion resulting from Governmental ex-
penditure, higher earnings, “full” em-
ployment and forward purchasing to
avoid scarcities and price increments. On
the other hand, Authority has endea-
vored both to reduce demand and the
rise in prices accompanying it. Thus
there have arisen price controls, ration-
ing and quota systems and all the other
direct and fiscal measures designed to
withdraw from the civilian sector
materials, equipment and labor needed
for the war machine and to hold back
the waves of purchasing power which
sweep over a market when goods are in
short supply or expected to become so.
For local retailers, clothes-rationing
has so far been the chief restrictive in-
fluence, though its incidence has been
softened by additional issues and con-
cessions to special workers and children
and, in Brisbane, apparently by shifts in
population—available statistics show only
a 5 p.c. drop in retail sales in the north-
ern metropolis in the first five months
of rationing compared with 12 p.c. in
Sydney. For McWhirters, at the Valley
end of the city, it was almost like old
times again;
1928. 1936. 1941. 1942.
Gross profit .. £261,380 £166,779 £222,081 £253,045
Exes.* . . 186,379 140,431 167,817 173,305
Profit* . . £.75,001 £26,348 £54,264 £79,740
* Before providing- for taxation.
On the average, Queensland department-
store sales lifted 11 p.c. in value during
the year, whereas the improvement in
McWhirters’ gross earnings was 14 p.c.
The extra business was handled with a
moderate overhead addition of £5488,
but double the previous provision was
set aside for taxation (£39,076), reduc-
ing the gain in declared profit to £6059.
The £40,664 was 7.4 p.c, on capital,
against 6.3 p.c,; 6 p.c. again went out.
Another £25,097 was added to stocks
(shrewdly bought and “carefully
checked”), which in coupon-free lines are
now rationing themselves;
1932. 1940. 1941. 1942.
Paid capital. . £550,000 £550,000 £550,000 £550,000
Overdraft . . 109,395 117,697 133,681 85,273
Creditors . . 37,917 33,837 36,866 33,667
Tax reserve .. 1,368 15,000 18,000 37,000
Freehold and
plant . . 453,000 438,940 436,974 431,090
Stocks . . 262,092 *299,380 *314,262 *339,359
Book debts . . 115,484 113,892 119,294 78,230
Cash, invest-
ments, etc... 5,772 3,266 8,565 2,723
* Includes goods in transit, previously lumped with
cash, etc.
The natural swing to cash buying and
credit restrictions enabled the board to
finance the outlay and at the same time
lop £51,607 off the debt, the sturdy
more or less liquid surplus (£301,372)
benefiting by £29,798. Though the stock
position appears reasonably secured, the
difficulty now threatens to be to retain
space to display it and staff to sell it and
conform with innumerable regulations.
Cresco Fertilizers, Ltd. (Adelaide)
, Dividends—— N To Re- Re-
June, Profit. Pref. Ord. Total, serves, serves.
1932.. 16,616 12 p.c.»+ Nil 13,316 3,300 117,569
1933.. 26,577 6* „ 4 p.c. 31,579 112,567
1934.. 22,675 6* „ 2* „ 22,217 458 113,025
Loss.
1935.. 29,349 6* p.c. Nil 6,659 77,017
1936.. 16,472 6* „ Nil 6,659 53,886
Bad debts recovered, £2500 .. •• 56,386
Tax reserve disclosed, £2500 .. .. 53,886
Profit.
1937.. 19,087 6* p.c. Nil 6,660 12,427 66,313
1938.. 18,632 6* „ 11 p.c. 15,987 2,645 68,958
1939.. 11,787 6*,, 1| „ 15,989 64,756
1940.. 28,307 6* „ l£ „ 15,989 12,318 77,074
Enlisted employees’ fund, £lOOO .. .. 76,074
1941.. 32,033 6* p.c. 21 p.c. 22,210 9,823 85,897
1942.. 23,961 6* „ 11 ~ 15,989 7,972 93,869
* Includes 5 p.c. on old prefs., 2825 in 1930, now
240. 1 Includes arrears.
Latest Government development is
appointment of a superphosphate indus-
try committee of eleven to control the
manufacture, distribution and consump-
tion of super., which has been more or


11l
FACING fi PARK
The one thing you will imme-
diately notice when you stay at
the Wentworth is the peaceful
atmosphere . . . the absence of
noise and hustle. . . . The
Wentworth faces a park . . . yet
it is merely "round the corner
from the centre of the city. The
rooms are all you would wish
. . . the service and cuisine
excellent.
THE WENTWORTH
in
ney-
’Phone BW 1361 (10 lines)
C. D. Maclurcan, Managing Director
SEND YOUR
ENQUIRIES FOR
MINING MACHINERY
STAMP BATTERIES
CONCENTRATORS
MAGNETIC SEPARATORS
AMALGAMATING TABLES
WATER FILTERS
EVERLASTING VALVES
ELECTRICAL EQUIPMENT
MOTORS AND SWITCHGEAR
GARBAGE DESTRUCTORS
“RENDROCK” AND OTHER
EXPLOSIVES
ALL CLASSES OF TOOLS.
GUTHRIDGE Pty. Limited,
10*12 Parramatta Road, Camperdown
Sydney.
m
m
1
|i§
..ti/r
YOUR ASSETS
YOU never know when circum-
stances may alter the routine of
your affairs. And the threads of
your business, if left in unaccus-
tomed hands, may soon twist into
knotty problems. It is wise, there-
fore, to safeguard your interests by
appointing a competent business
organisation to manage your affairs.
The principals of Smith, Boydell 8i
Company act as attorneys, trustees,
executors, and agents under power
of attorney. No detail is overlooked
to render thorough and capable
service in the management and
supervision of the estates and per-
sonal businesses placed in their
charge. Write for an explanatory
brochure.
SmimBOVDELL£CO
Principals: H. Landon Smith, Esq.
F. M. Boydell, A.1.C.A., A.C.I.S.
58 MARGARET ST., SYDNEY
PATENTS. —Have you an idea worth patenting?
Griffith, Hassel and Griffith, Patent Attorneys,
Asbestos House, Or. York and Barrack Streets, Sydney,
obtain Commonwealth and foreign patents.— Advt.
* * * *
DAVIES & COLLISON, Patent Attorneys, Collins
House, 360 Collins Street, Melbourne, C.l. Austra-
lian and overseas Patents and Trade Marks. — Advt.
PENS
Every point
guaranteed
do not experiment with imitations.
0. BBAHDADBB * 00, IM- BIBMISOHAM. ENO
WHEN HAIR GROWS THIN!
McMahon’s Hair Restorer is used for bald patches, alopecia
patches, dandruff, itching and dryness of the scalp, and
falling hair.
McMAHON'S HAIR RESTORER
PRICE: 5/-
Obtainable from Chemists, Hairdressers and Stores. If you
cannot get it locally, post 5/6 to the wholesale distributors,
GRAIG & AITKEN PTY.. LTD..
654 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
d
f
Australian Provincial Assurance
ANNUAL MEETING
LAND TAX AND WAR-TIME FINANCE
The Chairman, Mr. Edmund S. Paul, presiding at the Annual Meeting
of The Australian Provincial Assurance Association, Ltd., on 28th January,
dealt in his address, amongst other things, with the question of Land Tax and
War-time Finance. In the course of his remarks he said:—
The Board are pleased to be able to
report that Mortgage losses which have
figured in previous years’ Balance-sheets
have now disappeared. A Mortgage re-
covery again appears on the Revenue side
of the account.
FEDERAL LAND TAX
Federal Land Tax, which has increased
greatly, has, by reason of certain amend-
ments to the law, become a serious burden
on Life Assurance Companies.
This tax, it will be remembered, was
instituted to break up large country hold-
ings, but this object has long since been
forgotten, and now it is regarded as a
valuable source of public revenue.
Formerly the interests of Policyholders
were recognised and protected by a pro-
vision exempting from tax a proportion
of the land owned corresponding to the
proportion of the total assurances repre-
sented by Australian policies. This has
been abolished and the Federal Land
Tax of 9d. in the £, plus 20%, is charge-
able, not only on the Company’s Free-
holds, but also on all Mortgages where
default has been made for three years and
where the Association as Mortgagees have
entered into possession. This has obviously
affected net returns. In some cases the
effect of the Land Tax is to reduce the net
interest return to under 2-|% on Mort-
gage properties where the interest rate
chargeable is 7%, less 22\%, or
£5/8/6%.
Few of the general public realise what
dynamite lurks behind several Provisions
of the Federal Land Tax Act. The Land
Tax levied on Mortgagees in Possession is
a good example. When a mortgagee lends
on a property he does so on a Valuation
and estimates of the rental he would re-
cover if the Mortgagor makes default.
No Mortgagee ever takes into account the
Land Tax which will be levied on him,
and him alone, should default be made.
When default is made and the Mortgagee
enters into possession and remains in pos-
session three years, he finds he is saddled,
not only with the rate of Land Tax the
Mortgagor was paying (if any), but at the
rate applicable to the total value of his
Freeholds, which, in the case of an Insur-
ance Company, is always the maximum
tax, as the Insurance Company must in-
vest the Policyholders’ funds. Having
paid this tax, should the Mortgagor re-
deem at any time, the Mortgagee can only
recover such tax as would have been
paid by the Mortgagor, which, in most
cases, would be nil, owing to the ex-
emption to each Taxpayer of land to a
value of £5OOO Unimproved Capital Value.
As Shareholders are aware, I have
drawn their attention to the fact that
this Association has made no Loans on
Mortgage since 1929. Mortgages now
stand in the Balance-sheet at £464,742.
Whilst on the question of Land Tax, in
my last Report I referred to the Appeal
pending in respect of the A.P.A. Building,
Melbourne. The appeal was heard in the
High Court. Where the Court is unable
to ascertain the Unimproved Capital Value
of the land assessed by comparing sales of
Unimproved land in the market of com-
parable sites, it is made on what has been
variously described as the “Hypothetical
Building,” or “Development” basis.
The rental from the building then crested
on. the land is discarded, and it is assumed
the land is vacant. The Capital value of
the land is ascertained by capitalising the
net receipts at some given rate of interest.
Although the Association was success-
ful, it would have been more so had the
Court capitalised the net return at a rate
equal to the net return on Commonwealth
Tax Free Loans at the relevant date of
the Appeal, viz., 30th June, 1939, instead
of in fact at a rate of approximately one-
third of 1% less than the return from
Commonwealth Bonds.
WAR-TIME FINANCE
Before I pass from the subject of
“INVESTMENTS” I think I should say
something regarding the value of Industrial
Shares.
The fact that the Government finds it
necessary ro fix maximum, or what are
termed on the Stock Exchange “Ceiling,”
prices is an indication of the Public’s fear
of Inflation. Never before in the history
of Australia has the Stock Exchange ex-
perienced a market day after day with no
Sellers, and it is now a privilege to
secure any shares from a Deceased estate
which happen to come on the market.
It is obvious money must be found for
the War effort, but as each 50 million
and 100 million Loan is floated it in-
creases the spending power of the Public
and the demand for goods. The spend-
ing-power of the Public can only be effec-
tively curtailed by taxation or contribu-
tion to War Loans —Rationing of goods
has, at the most, only had a moderate
effect. Taxes on large incomes are
approaching a Capital levy. Such taxes
are necessary, but, having reached their
limit, from what source can contribution
to the War Loan come? What is the
remedy? I think the answer is that, unless
we are to have unbridled Inflation, some
compulsory form of contribution to War
Loans from every citizen, based on their
Income Tax paid —following somewhat on
the Keynes Plan —is inevitable.
With Interest rates falling, your Direc-
tors are not oblivious to the fact that
the Actuarial Reserve will require
strengthening to meet this falling Interest
Rate. Whilst some Shareholders may
think the present Board have been over-
conservative in reducing the Actuarial
Reserve rate from a “Lenient Sprague
Basis” of 4 %—which was in operation
when I took office—to a 4% net premium
basis —which was the basis recommended
by the Association’s Actuary and supported
by Mr. Latham (Actuary to the Common-
wealth Bank)—and also thereafter reducing
the basis by gradual stages from 4% to
3%, it is clear that the Association would
not have been in the strong financial posi-
tion it is in to-day to meet the heavy War
claims had your Directors not pursued
this somewhat conservative course. Your
Directors regret that whilst reducing the
rate of Bonus to Policy-holders they have
also had to reduce the rate of Dividend
to Shareholders. They recommend a
Dividend of \\% *in place of I\% last
year.
The vacancies on the Board were filled
by the appointment during the year of
William Victor McCall, M.H.R., and
Leslie James Thompson.
[ess under official control for some time.
War has aggravated the difficulties which
have confronted the fertiliser industry for
a dozen years now, and has had reper-
cussions on the national economy at a
time when the rural labor position calls
for maximum output per beast and acre
of land. Though substantial stocks of
phosphate rock had been laid in before
supply lines to Pacific resources were cut,
local production of superphosphate was
reduced 30 p.c. last year, and only
480,000 tons, or half normal supply, was
expected to be made available in the
current term. Diversion of extra sup-
plies to crops like cotton, tobacco,
vegetables, etc., in other States has caused
proportionately heavier reductions in S.
Aus., Vic. and W.A. quotas.
Egypt is now the chief source of rock
supplies at a cost roughly four times the
pre-war figure of 30s. a ton c.i.f., and to
eke out island stocks only one part of
high-grade rock is being mixed with
three parts of the low-grade Egyptian
variety, which contains gases like fluorin
which have added to the cost of manu-
facture. Some use is also being made of
indigenous resources, but these deposits
aren’t extensive or comparable in quality
to the Pacific article. To some extent
the inevitable rise in selling prices has
been cushioned in its effect upon con-
sumers by a subsidy of 255. a ton.
Cresco operates three plants in South
Aus., has a £90,000 (26 p.c.) share in-
terest in Cresco Fertilizers (W.A.), and
is also dug in at Geelong (Vic,), where,
as a war-time expedient, its quota is being
produced by Commonwealth Fertilisers,
In the light of controlled output, last
year’s recovery in wheat yields wasn’t sig-
nificant, and after allowing £5OOO less for
taxation (£10,000) the decline in net
earnings was £8072, leaving them at 2.7
p.c. on the £622,200 ord. capital after
satisfying the prefs, A point was chipped
off the div. (ly p.c.), and the Westralian
associate also cut its distribution from 5
p.c. to 4 p.c.
“Ample depreciation” is declared re-
sponsible for the decline of £25,043 in
the book value of fixed assets:
1936. 1938. 1941. 1942.
Paid capital.. £734,679 £733,165 £733,165 £733,165
Liabilities .. 180,600 307,509 263,267 204,546
Freeholds, plant,
etc. .. 463,769 572,098 560,142 535,099
Stocks . . 96,414 161,499 236,168 185,254
Shares in other
cos. . . 90,000 90,005 90,011 90,011
Debtors .. 237,471 176,124 159,865 75,971
Cash, etc. . . 89,169 87,155 15,584 108,668
Farm property,
etc. .. 41,737 62,768 62,567
The financial position also benefited by
reductions of £50,914 in carryover super,
and raw-material stocks and of £83,894
in debtors’ balances, which have fallen
to £21,269 since the close of accounts.
Farm properties are all claimed to be
showing a satisfactory return.
The current term opened with seasonal
conditions the best on record; but that
doesn’t now mean all it used. Wheat-
farmers will receive 4s. a bushel bagged
at stations for the first 3000 bushels of
the harvest, but an advance of only 2s. a
bushel on any excess, pending realisa-
tion. The Commonwealth last year
guaranteed 140,000,000 3s. lOd.
per unit; spread over the 153,000,000
bushels actually delivered, it works out
around 3s. 6d.
Gold-copper shows topped the goldmin-
ing div. list in 1942, New Occidental
(N.S.W.) leading all comers with £96,100,
followed by Mount Morgan in Queens-
land with £94,200. In distributions en-
tirely from gold exertions. Golden Plateau
(Q.) headed the field with payments of
£84,000, with Arahura (£82,500) and Vic-
toria Dredging (£81,200), carrying gold-
dredging colors in Maoriland and Vic-
toria, well up. Distinction for the highest
rate of payment (255 p.c. = £81,600) again
belongs to North Deborah at Bendigo.
Westralian honors went to old-timers in
Lake View and Star (£70,000 stg.) and
Boulder Perseverance (£45,600 stg.), hard-
pressed by that local credit to the younger
generation Hill 50 (£42,100).
* * * *
Yankee-controlled Big Bell (W.A.) is
the latest to shut down. War-time short-
age of labor, difficulty in getting essential
supplies and rising cost of mining and
development are given as the main
reasons. Big Bell Mines, Ltd., of New
York, became interested in this large low-
grade gold deposit in 1936, and under the
supervision of Dale Pitt it was scientifi-
cally rushed through the development to
the production stage a year later. By
that time there were indicated ore re-
serves of over 3,000,000 tons of 3ydwt.
to 4dwt. grade, a near-by township had
sprung up, a £25,000 pub had opened and
a 22-mile railway had been built by the
State Government at a cost of £60,000 to
connect the mine with Cue. In four and
a bit years to the end of 1942 2,199,860
tons was treated for 286,3950 z. gold
and 98,3990 z. silver. Paid-up capital of
£400,000 has been mostly returned to
overseas shareholders in dividends.
“O.B.” complains:
Westralia is being cold-shouldered by the
Federal authorities in regard to the production
of so-called strategic minerals. Experts with
high-sounding jobs come and, with a feeling
of work well performed, go after visits of
inspection without any move being made to
do anything about the deposits they have seen.
Were, for example, the idle miners from Big
Bell sent to help strategic mineral mining in
other parts of the State? By gad, no! The
majority of them were hustled to Queensland.
♦ * * *
Some optimists are trying to raise capi-
tal in the West to dig diamonds at Nul-
lagine. As early as 1895 a few small gem
stones were discovered in a battery after
crushing the local conglomerate. Later
a few more were found either in the con-
glomerate or river gravels. Over a hun-
dred were said to have been got, though
no mining has been done. A number
were pure white, of good transparency
and brilliance ; others were yellowish in
tinge.
* * * *
In advising holders to sit tight, Lon-
don “Financial Times” comments that,
whereas Asian tin-share values in the
market generally conform to the yard-
stick of available liquids, rubbers are
well above break-up levels. The same
phenomenon was existent in Australia.
Cost of plantations is the big feature in
rubber-co. accounts, however, and dredge
equipment in those of tin shows; the
fact that dredges may suffer more
severely than plantations in the reoccu-
pation of enemy-held territory may ex-
plain the anomaly.


Every Pound you
snve NOW
brings Pence nearer
IF YOU INVEST YOUR SAVINGS
IN A DRIVE FOR VICTORY!
NOW is the time to save . . . now is the time to
support with your savings the efforts of our
fighting forces. “Too much is not enough if it’s
too late” is the Prime Minister’s warning . ..
see to it that you do your share now. Start at
once. Cut out all needless spending ... it wastes
money and manpower which is needed for essen- ,
tial production. Save...and put all your savings
into Australia’s war effort. And when Victory
has been won you’ll have the full benefit of your
savings for use in the post-war years of peace.
SAVE ALL YOU CAN . . . AND BUY
S.M-19
6! WAR SAVINGS STAMPS •
WAR SAVINGS CERTIFICATES FOR 16/-
£lO NATIONAL SAVINGS BONDS
d
BURGLARIES
are Prevalent!
Householders should INSURE
against
FIRE—BURGLARY
HOUSEBREAKING
LARCENY and THEFT
and other contingencies
All in ONE Policy.
Cost from 7/6 per £lOO
Minimum Premium £l/2/6
The New Zealand Insurance
Company, Limited
79-81 PITT STREET, SYDNEY
L. Mudford, Manager.
Telephone 8W1931 for particulars
Business, Rollery, Etc.
Overseas Trade
Before the war overseas trade was a
vital factor in the Australian economy.
Essential things like petrol and motor
vehicles were not products of this coun-
try ; neither were many types of machin-
ery, cotton textiles and other things.
Besides essential imports that had to
be paid for there was the interest
on the amount owing for past im-
ports, and, altogether, it was cus-
tomary for Australia to have to
find more than £l3O million sterling
a year for imports and interest. In those
circumstances the value of exports was
plain ; they represented the wherewithal
whereby overseas payments were made by
us. Whether our exports were made up
of gold production or wool, wheat, butter,
etc., they had a certain value in the
world’s markets; in some cases more
value in the London market, where tariff
preferences were granted that amounted
to a higher price for certain Australian or
other Empire products. As we paid for
our imports and other external obliga-
tions with our exports, the more we
exported (in value) the more we were
able to buy. Exports were really the
source from which our standard of living
could be varied and improved by im-
ported articles.
Australia’s overseas trade prior to the
war was an almost perpetual problem
to bankers and economists. We bought
such a lot from abroad that we found
difficulty in paying for it and interest
charges. Borrowing abroad was dis-
countenanced because of the unhealthy
after-effects felt in previous external bor-
rowing operations, and, although we man-
aged to meet our pre-war commitments, it
was sometimes only by drawing on our
accumulated funds in London. We were
never very flush with this London money
from depression days onward, even though
most of the gold reserve was shipped to
London at a very difficult period—to
insure against default, in fact. An
efflux of money from London for invest-
ment in this country just before and
after the war helped us out somewhat,
but it was money with a string to it. It
could be taken away again by its absentee
owners, and therefore was not as trust-
worthy as revenue from exports. Bankers
were in the habit of judging their credit
policy to a large extent on the health or
otherwise of our London balances. In
1936 there was a scare in this regard, and
other adjustments occurred later.
When war broke out Australia was still
in the position of having an excess of
wool, metals and food production but
inadequate supplies of many other things.
We wanted aeroplanes, warships, cotton,
tea, oil, etc. One by one our markets in
Axis countries disappeared, and Britain,
blockaded, had to select its purchases from
us with economy and care. Quick to suffer
were our wheat, wine and dried-fruits
industries. Fortunately a contract was
made for wool, and for this we get paid
whether it is shipped or not. Butter,
cheese and some meats were subject to
other less comprehensive contracts, as
were various metals. During the first
couple of years of the war the Com-
monwealth used up most of the credits
that it created abroad by laying in extra-
large stocks of many things. Although
both importing and exporting became
difficult, we found a market in Britain,
Asia and Malaya for steel and other
manufactures hitherto not on our export
list, but against this we had the loss of
other sections of our trade to contend
with, and our funds were further called
upon to meet the overseas cost of the
A.I.F. The first couple of years of the
war found Australia in its old role of
scratching to pay for overseas commit-
ments out of current receipts ; some opti-
mists had looked for such a surplus of
exports that an appreciation of the Aus-
tralian £ in relation to sterling was
expected!
Until the advent of lend-lease we paid
for United States goods from proceeds of
exports sold under all kinds of difficulties
in the world’s markets. We got together
and exported U.S. securities to pro-
vide more dollar exchange. Now Britain
has a master lend-lease agreement with
the 'U.S.A., and Australia comes under
it. The basic principle behind lend-
lease is that it is not financial. It is
reputed to have removed the dollar sign
in the Empire’s war-time dealings with
the United States. With Britain our
arrangements are still on an £ s. d. basis.
In this connection in 1940-41 we bor-
rowed £l5 million in London towards
meeting an A.I.F. bill of £43 million ;
as this was after paying £2O million-odd
of interest in London it wasn’t a bad
position. In 1941-42 we financed “£47
million of overseas war expenditure,
mainly out of current international
receipts, but we had to draw on accumu-
lated reserves to some extent.” Those
were the words of Mr. Chifley. In
respect of the year now current he
explained: “Under an arrangement
made with the Chancellor of the
Exchequer by my colleague Dr. Evatt,
obligations which we cannot currently
meet will be postponed for considera-
tion after the war. There is a fair
prospect that we shall be able to finance
out of current receipts about £5O million
of overseas war expenditure for 1942-43.”
If we can do that it will show further
improvement on our efforts of the pre-
ceding years, though it is hard to say to
what extent lend-lease has been indirectly
helping us with our London funds. At
the same time, we are making substantial
return to the U.S.A. in the shape of
reciprocal lend-lease.
At present the basis of international
trade is not one of peace. Such
world trade as is carried on, whether
by lend-lease or other means, is
mostly in terms of war essentials.
The desires and fancies of the
human heart, so potent a factor in peace-
time commerce, count for little or no-
thing in the world of the present. Gold
production has gone overboard in Aus-
tralia, the tourist trade has disappeared,
and imports of things such as diamonds,
which have a high peace-time value, and
other finery and luxuries are not con-
sidered to be in any way essential.
One of the few luxuries coming into
Australia at present is motion-picture
film. It doesn’t take up much shipping
space, and it provides a means of enter-
tainment for millions of people at little
cost in man-power so far as this country
is concerned. Greater man-power is in-
volved in the country of production.
Money cost to Australia is mostly
wrapped up in lend-lease.
Around such flukes of circumstance
and the demands of war and bare living
standards is the shape of war-time trade
made. Britain imports much food (from
the nearest exporters) because overseas
food is an essential to Britain’s existence
in peace or in war; Australia is an abun-
dant producer of most foods. Foods have
a high priority among Britain’s imports
and a very low one in Australia’s.
What is going to happen after the war?
Nobody can prophesy with any accuracy.
We don’t even know what changes will
take place in the position of raw materials
by reason of the development of syn-
thetics. But it is certain that we shall
again see countries anxious to build up
an export trade so that their peoples will,
in turn, have spending power to give
them access to the world’s markets.
Countries like Australia which have been
on short rations of civilian petrol will be
wanting as much petrol as their citizens
care to buy. And while we are trying
to sell our wool and wheat and buy pet-
rol and motor-cars, some other coun-
tries will be doing the same. Those with
the lowest costs of production will have
the greatest opportunity, because, after
the war, realities will govern trade just
as they did pre-war. Those countries
whose internal affairs have been kept in
the best order will be best fitted to deal
with external affairs. In this connection
Australia is likely to feel not only the
21 p.c. inflation that has already taken
place in costs since war began, but also
the at-present disguised inflation of Trea-
sury-bill finance.
Some people claim that international
trade was the underlying cause of the
present war. It is, without a doubt, a
thing of the greatest importance to the
welfare of individuals and countries.
And yet matters relating to Australia’s
external trade have been treated with
remarkable contempt by members of the
present Federal Ministry and by the
Government generally. The fact that in-
flationary finance, with its rising costs,
will reduce our capabilities in the post-
war export trade means nothing to them.
Their minds can’t cope with realities. Thus
we have Home Security Minister Laz-
zarini saying “the talk of the financial
system and of inflation is all insidious
propaganda; an attempt to stampede the
Labor people against the Government.”
Yet Mr. Lazzarini lived through the last
depression, “worse than the 1914-18
war,” which was bred of inflation and
purged by necessary but painful correc-
tives.
There is much humbug, in Australia and
abroad, around the matter of post-war
world trade. Some terms of the Atlantic
Charter are typical of it. Let Australia
try to keep its own affairs in order pend-
ing the day world trade routes reopen to
the push, pull and bustle of vigorous
trade: that is the best thing we can do.
Don’t let us be deluded into- behavior
that will leave us tangled up amongst
ourselves while well-managed countries
like Canada, which is to be admired
rather than envied, hop smartly into the
world’s markets and get their share of what
is offering. As we are behaving now it is
possible for the Empire to be victorious
over its enemies but for Australia to
suffer economic defeat resulting from in-
ternal white-anting and financial mis-
management.
Preliminary estimate of Queensland
sugar production for 1942 is 625,000
tons, against 697,000 (actual) in 1941 and
891,000 in the peak ’39 term. Weather,
man-power and fertiliser difficulties up-
set the early hope for 700,000 tons.
Latest yield leaves about 200,000 tons
available for export.


E
ap
S
EYE LOTIOIT
For Inflamed Eyes and Eyelids
SOLD EVERYWHERE
H. A. Rose & Co. Pty I _Ltd ll _K2ng St., Sydney
“BILLABONG”
WINDMILLS
HAVE
i
AUTOMATIC
OILING AND
ENCLOSED
GEARS
THE BASIS FOR
EFFICIENCY IN PUMPING
. L.TO.
391-403 BOURKE STREET, MELBOURNE.
324-330 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
MAKERS OF PUMPING EQUIPMENT FOR OVER 70 YEARS.
Pelmanism
Scientific Training of Mind , Memory and Personality
H.M. Forces
160 admirals and generals and
nearly 100,000 other ranks have
taken the Pelman Course.
Approved by the War Office.
A gratifying feature of our relations
with students is the friendly communi-
cations we receive from time to time
from Pelmanists who completed the
course years ago. An extract from one
such letter is included below.
SOLDIER— 24th April, ’42; “It is grati-
fying to realise the difference Pelmanism has
made in my Army life....as evidenced in
many new friendships, for instance.”
TEACHER— 22nd May, ’42: “I have taken
a fresh grip on things. I used to dread
Inspections, and stew over them before and
after. I am now looking forward to this
years Inspection.”
SOLDIER —14th May, ’42: “The Course
has improved me wonderfully, especially in
regard to observation and general efficiency.”
CLERK—7th April, ’42; “In an early
lesson you said that there is no magic in
Pelmanism. I can only say, from the peace
of mind and increased efficiency I have enjoyed
since studying Pelmanism, that it takes on
the appearance of magic.”
SOLDIER —17th May, ’42: “My past
training in Pelmanism has stood me in good
stead since joining the A.I.F. There is
ample opportunity here for the application
of the Pelman principles of living.”
MEDICAL STUDENT- 9th May, ’42:
“I find myself improved in decisiveness and
concentration, which have combined to vastly
increase my self-confidence.”
•
AIR FORCE —18th May, ’42: “I took the
Pelman Course in Septemuer, 35. it p.u.td
to be an outstandingly-wise decision on my
part.... I have improved and increased my
earning capacity in the last six and a halt
years I have enthusiastically recommended
the Pelman Course to hundreds.”
BOOT TRADE —I2th May, ’42: “Each
lesson has shown me more grounds for im-
provement and my aims have become clearer.
I applied for the Course to obtain social
ease, but quickly saw the wisdom of your
advice to aim at all-round development.”
SOLDIER —Ist May, ’42: “I undertook
the Pelman Course to overcome a bad
memory, and I am making good progress.
Yesterday I had to learn the Morse Code,
and 1 made astonishing progress. To-day
there are only two letters of which I am not
quite certain.” •
The Headquarters of the Pelman
Institute are in London.
The Institute has been established in
Melbourne under the same direction for
over 34 years, and has enrolled more than
50,000 of the half-million Pelmanists.
The staff of the Pelman Institute is fully aware of the present need
for intensification of effort, and it sets out with each pupil to get
as quickly as possible to the core and substance of his individual
requirements.
On “being wanted”
The first source of moral strength is a certainty of being wanted,
of being acceptable to at least one group of people. A second source
is the conviction that, if we wish, we can make ourselves of use to
other groups and acceptable to them. The enlargement of the number
of groups and the intensification of our influence in any one of them
are determined by the degree of development of certain qualities, viz:
Perceptive Faculty Concentration Self-Control Judgment
Self-Confidence Organisation Will-Power Initiative
and a good memory for faces, figures, names, appointments, prices
and useful data of every kind.
Pelmanism trains these qualities, not with the object of making
the individual like anyone else, but so that he, as an individual, will
be as strong as it is possible for him to be. The Pelman Training sets
out seriously to do this so that the man will be himself at his best, able
to make a good performance of anything he undertakes.
More is said about this and other interesting aspects of
personality in “The Efficient Mind,” 76 pages, sent post
free. Inquiries are confidential. We have no outside
representatives.
The Pelman Institute
3 Gloucester House, 396 Flinders Lane
(Cr. Market St.), Melbourne.
Telephone: MU2355. Telephone or personal calls are welcomed.
Those who do not wish to cut The Bulletin are advised that “The Pelman Institute,
Melbourne,” is sufficient address.
New Zealand Inquirers.
The Pelman Institute, with
the approval of the Reserve
Rank, has made arrangements to
meet the financial restrictions
and enable residents of New
Zealand to enrol for the Pelman
Course of Training without
delay. Write in the first instance
to the Pelman Institute, Mel-
bourne.
To the Pelman Institute, 3 Gloucester House,
396 Flinders Fane, Melbourne.
Please send me, post-free, a copy of “THE EFFICI
MIND.”
Name
Address
157
Last week in the U.S.A. Dean Acheson,
Assistant Secretary of State, said “the
agreements under which lend-lease
programmes are being conducted in
war-time will also lay the founda-
tions on which peace can be built.”
He added that “lend-lease has become
an indispensable instrument of Ameri-
can foreign policy.” How is this
going to affect gold? The December
circular of the National City Bank of
New York still expresses faith in the
future of gold. It says “it is difficult to
conceive a monetary system based on
anything but the precious metals com-
manding the confidence of the people.
The Axis conception of a ‘work unit of
value’ seems hardly likely to offer serious
competition. Gold is wanted for mak-
ing international payments. Without
gold for such purposes the only alterna-
tive is strict Governmental control of all
foreign trade, with continuation of all
the paraphernalia of clearings agree-
ments, blocked currencies, trade quotas
and the like, which were stifling interna-
tional trade up to the war. Another
reason why gold will be wanted by Gov-
ernments lies in the huge vested interest
in it by the United States as the world’s
greatest holder and the British Empire
as the world’s greatest producer.” The
last will be a potent, though not the most
logical, factor in the case for the reten-
tion of gold. Touching on the value of
gold as a basis for international settle-
ments, a London opinion put forward
early last year was to the effect that post-
war trade would have to be conditioned
by the fact that nations can pay for goods
and services only by goods and services,
and a barter system was proposed. Every
nation which exported more than it im-
ported would be in danger of having the
uncleared balance cancelled after a period
of years. Gold did not figure promi-
nently in the shape of this proposal,
« » * a
The secretary of the Western Miners’
Union, N. S. Wales, said last week that
United States interests have given an
assurance that, if the Glen Davis and
Baerami oil-shale mines are allowed to
be worked mechanically, they will spend
from £3,000,000 to £5,000,000 in exploit-
ing them. But, just by the way, isn’t it
time a little more light and air was let
into these proposals by Parliament itself?
So far, Mr. Beasley and trade-unions
are among the few who have anything to
say about what is going on. The past his-
tory of Newnes and Baerami demands the
utmost illumination of what is happening
at present. The Federal Government
only recently altered its peculiar excise
policy in respect of indigenous shale oils.
* $ $ #
The committee set up to inquire into
the dairying industry recommended an
increase of 3id. a pound for butter and
2d. a pound for cheese. The Federal
Government did not accept the recom-
mendations, and instead granted a sub-
sidy of £2,000,000 to the industry. This
was said to represent about lid. a pound
of butter. On the average, 77.6 p.c. of
Australia’s milk production is turned into
butter, 5 p.c. into cheese, 3.6 p.c. into
preserved milk and 13.8 p.c. is used in its
natural form. The average wholesale
selling price for butter in Australia at
the present time is about Is. s|d. a
pound. The export price is just under
Is. 3d., f.o.b. Australian ports. Although
there was a steep fall in butter produc-
tion coinciding with the drain on man-
power, increasing war-time costs and the
severe drought in N. S. Wales and
Queensland, recently output has been a
record. Commerce Minister Scully says
large stocks have been built up and Aus-
tralia can now send more butter to
Britain if required.
* * * *
As with all other forms of money
and money investments, life-assurance
policies lost value in 1942 in propor-
tion to the increase in the cost of
living, or, put in another way, in keeping
with the depreciation of money. But
savings-bank deposits and Government
securities suffered in the same manner,
and there is enough elasticity about life-
assurance offices to hold out the possi-
bility of some restoration of this depre-
ciation in post-war bonus rates. At the
present time bonuses are being kept low
because of fallen interest yields and the
necessity for extra reserves against war-
time losses through death. In some cases,
too, offices are taking advantage of an
“austerity” period to make greater pro-
vision than is customary for future con-
tingencies and to provide for a lower
anticipated rate of interest. Govern-
ment taxation is greater than it used to
be, and other expenses have been inclined
to rise. It cannot be stressed too much,
especially in these days, that all the
time the investment aspect of life assur-
ance is being kept in piind the basic ser-
vice rendered —the death cover —should
not be forgotten. The living have to pay
for those who die. But an ageing policy
is always a profitable one in a good office.
v * * * *
Of Australia’s £llB-million note issue
on November 30, £67 million was in
denominations above 10s. and £l. Fivers
figured for £4l million, tenners for £17.7
million. Fifties and hundreds together
(£7.2 million) represented more than the
10s. issue (£6.2 million). There was £44.5
million of pound notes, which constitute
the basis of the active note issue. Many
of the £5O-and-upwards denominations
are used for inter-bank transactions, but
it seems that a lot of them are being
hoarded, together with lower-value notes.
• * * s
At the end of December the banking
system of Australia was holding £382.8
million of Government and other securi-
ties and Treasury bills, compared with
£144.5 million at the same time in 1939.
The increase of £238.3 million has nearly
all taken place over the past 18 months.
If the present rate of use of bank credit
goes on Government borrowings from
banks will soon exceed the amount of
total pre-war bank deposits.
* * * *
The growth in the amount of war-time
funds deposited by the trading banks
with the Commonwealth Bank at 15s. per
cent, interest (now £75 million), combined
with the low rate they are receiving on
their increasing holdings of Treasury
bills, is affecting the banks’ earning power
appreciably. In three years their ordi-
nary advances have fallen by £46 million,
while their interest-bearing deposits have
dropped only slightly. Meanwhile, bank-
ing activity and overhead have increased
greatly.
* * * *
An important development in 1943 will
be the outstripping of the Axis in the
production of vital “aeroplane metals” —
aluminium and magnesium. A particular
six-pound casting of magnesium alloy
would weigh 101 b. in aluminium and
261 b. in steel. Aluminium is the second
most abundant element in the earth’s
crust, with magnesium sixth, but, apart
from raw-material sources, the most im-
portant production factors are plant cost
and electric-power supply. Transport of
the bulky raw material is another con-
siderable item. American cheap hydro-
electric power has already helped Canada
and the U.S.A. to put the United Nations
ahead of the Axis in aluminium produc-
tion, and in 1943 the tables will be
turned with magnesium also. The raw
material for aluminium is bauxite and
alunite ; for magnesium, salt brines, mag-
nesite, dolomite and sea-water. It is
hard to overemphasise the probable
effect of the United Nations’ imminent
ascendancy in aluminium and mag-
nesium ; other armaments besides aero-
planes are involved, and whereas until
recently the Empire soldier had to face
the enemy with little more than rifles and
artillery and fight desperate rearguard
actions, soon it will be a case of Allied
forces going forward assisted by the
weight of superior equipment,


THE SERVICE MAN
The Cloud in the North.
“Ek Dum”: In spite of the gallant
battles of the Australians and the Ameri-
cans in Papua, it cannot be said that the
enemy shows any sign of letting go his
grip on his main southern bases. All the
evidence is that his percolation into
points of vantage adjacent to the defence
ring round the South-west Pacific —in the
Solomons, New Guinea and the islands
round about—continues dangerously.
In other words, a fresh sending out of
tentacles is indicated. While some of
them are slender, the existence of increas-
ing numbers of them adds to the burden
of the United Nations’ air forces, pro-
motes their dispersion and increases the
enemy’s versatility of action.
As a sequel to the fight for Wau aero-
drome, in which the enemy was driven
back three miles on January 31, leaving
behind 300 dead, the history of Japanese
land operations in the Lae-Salamaua area
was summarised by correspondents at H.Q.
About 1800 Japs had been landed in
the Lae-Salamaua area from 11 ships at
Lae on March 8, 1942. Across the bay
at Salamaua the same day a cruiser and
50 barges decanted another 1000 men.
Despite air assaults on convoys, in which
some ships were sunk, the unwelcome
visitors established themselves and made
their way 20 miles up the Markham
Valley. All this landing and move inland
looked like part of a joint operation
with the powerful fleet which was pulled
up with a round turn in the Coral Sea
battle; and after that battle Salamaua
was strongly reinforced.
By July forces were spreading towards
the Papuan border. The Australian out-
post at Mubo was attacked a week before
the landing at Gona. The reception com-
mittee was so strong that 50-odd Japs
were left dead.
On August 31 the enemy returned in
greater strength along the Komiatum
track. He snatched Mubo from its brave
handful of defenders. Since then he has
gradually penetrated and explored the
approaches to the goldfields.
The attention to Lae-Salamaua since
May last year has been constant. Time
after time ships bringing men and stores
have been sunk, the harborside dumps
have been blasted, occasionally from
mast height, landing grounds have been
tom to bits and building after building,
dump after dump sent up in flames or
fragments. During much of the time only
limited air opposition has been encoun-
tered by our bombers and long-distance
fighters.
But it should be poison to complacency
that at the end of eight months of cleans-
ing effort by the Allied air forces there
Were last week estimated to be 3000
Japanese troops in the 500-square-mile
triangle of Lae-Salamaua-Wau. And the
sweeping up of the litter after the Wau
fight showed that, like those in the mam
positions at Buna and Gona, they were
well equipped and fed.
Air Transport Scores
Fortunately in their inland war they
are up against a kind of local experience
which they themselves have not got. The
New Guinea goldfields are the original
home of heavy air-freight carriage. In
1941 8913 tons of freight was flown on
the goldfields lines everything from
shoes to dredges, not to mention most
of the population, had been taken by air
to the fields, even the local horses.
This kind of flying calls for a special
kind of technique, and even with trans-
port machines the enemy could not land
without aerodromes, for which in the
goldfield area sites are scarcer than hen’s
teeth. Holding Wau, the pioneer land-
ing ground of the fields, equipped
to land three-engined Junkers on what
civilised pilots would take at first glance
to be a perpendicular wall, the local
defenders have luckily had the advantage
in the means of supplying themselves with
artillery, apart from all other require-
ments. At the same time it enabled rein-
forcements to be flown in with all arms
and accessories so soon as the threat to
Wau was realised on January 28.
No fewer than 244 separate transport
flights were made in four days with over
400 tons of men and war material. The
trips were done in brutal weather from
Moresby over the Owen Stanleys and
under fighter escort. The results must
have proved a shock for a number of
Japs, who least of all could have ex-
pected to find themselves, after their long
scramble, faced with so large a force,
and one equipped with guns at that.
The end of last week saw the close of
a phase in which the enemy made attempt
after attempt to reach the aerodrome in
ground fighting, losing appreciable num-
bers of men.
There were continuous patrol activi-
ties, and a party of about 70 stout Aus-
tralians who had been cut off in the early
part of the operations succeeded in get-
ting back to Wau.
On February 6 the enemy tried an-
other tack —an air assault on a scale
which proved the fallacy of the belief in
some quarters that the invaders are weak
in the air. Their ’planes filled the sky
at times—once it was reported that there
were 75 of them in the air; but Light-
nings, Airacobras and Kittyhawks were
waiting for them. On Sunday, Feb. 7,
it was announced that 41 enemy ’planes
had been shot down, either destroyed or
seriously damaged—33 fighters and eight
bombers. Two bombers were brought
down by aircraft fire. Our losses were
small.
Allied patrols were active near Mubo
on February 6 and 7, and 18 of the
enemy in a port at Waipaining were
wiped out.
Danger East and West
The fighting at Wau is only a fraction
of the activity of the enemy over the
north of Australia. The chronicle of
what goes on is so varied and covers so
great an area of sea and land that it is
difficult to bring home to Australians in
their normal-seeming cities the magnitude
of the struggle or the danger, or the
inexorable manner in which the tide is
creeping towards North Australia proper.
From Timor on the western side to
Buin, in the Solomons, and Lorengau, in
the Admiralties, bombers operate daily
against Japanese bases as far apart as
London is by airline from Cairo and in
a belt as deep as from London to the
Mediterranean. And in this wide area
every operation calls for hundreds, some
for thousands, of miles of flying.
Those who are impatient because
greater results are not obtained over
Rabaul need to reflect that the route
from Moresby thither is as long as from
London to Berlin; to Buin from the
Australian coast is further. Yet up to
Saturday night Rabaul had been raided
on seven consecutive nights.
There has been no day or night during
the past week on which at least eight
bases in an area 2000 miles long have
not been under attack.
Pincer on New Guinea
West of Torres Strait the crucial fact
about the offensive and counter-offensive
is the increasing activity along the New
Guinea coast and in the islands opposite
Arnhem Land and the Gulf of Carpen-
taria area. Since January 19 the block
of islands and the New Guinea shore
have daily been under fire at some point
or other.
On Jan. 19 Merauke (Dutch N.G.), in
Allied occupation, was bombed by enemy
float-’planes in the first of a long series
of raids, while Mitchells, Liberators and
Hudsons found enemy bases to strafe
and bomb in the Kai Islands, the Arus,
the Tanimbars (they are within 200 miles
of the Arnhem coast), and Amboina,
where strong fighter cover was en-
countered.
The later phases of this campaign were
marked by the frequency with which
fresh enemy shipping was seen arriving
in the region and by the widening atten-
tion given by Jap aircraft to the funnel
of the western approaches to the Torres
area. The natural and expected climax
was the announcement from South-west
Pacific H.Q. that on Feb. 2 enemy dumps
at Kaukenau (Dutch New Guinea) had
been bombed.
Thus the enemy had a mainland base
in New Guinea on the west as well as
on the east. And no doubt some
leisurely organisation was done on the
western side of the island before the
war, since Nipponese held timber con-
cessions there on some scale.
On Feb. 1 long-range fighters exploded
an ammunition warehouse at Koepang,
Timor, set hangars and buildings on
fire and destroyed eight bombers and
a fighter on the ground. And there was
a low-altitude attack by heavy bombers
on Kaukenau (D.N.G.). Heavier still was
a week-end slashing of Amboina harbor
in which three transports totalling 20,000
tons were destroyed. One was a 10,000-ton
merchantman; five “O” fighters were
shot down ; no Allied ’planes were lost.
In the Rabaul area the several raids
concentrated on shipping and the aero-
drome and on Open Bay below the old
capital. On Feb. 3 30 to 40 Jap troops were
killed in a motor-boat in Open Bay, and
a Liberator hit a cargo ship which was
afterwards seen limping towards the
beach to join the row of wrecks already
ashore. Next day a 1000-ton camouflaged
cargo boat was caught off Arawe, on
the south coast of New Britain, and left
listing on a reef, and a number of
grounded aircraft were believed to have
been destroyed in an attack on Lae. In
other raids, many fires were started in the
aerodrome areas of Rabaul. At Talasea
hits were scored on an enemy vessel of
1000 tons, which sank.
After all the effort, however, the enemy
is still in New Britain in increasing
strength and in new positions. Every
day makes more urgent the task of push-
ing him out.
There are still several pockets of him
being cleaned out along the fringes of
Papua. Patrols on Feb. 5 inflicted 75
casualties on an enemy detachment trying
to escape down the Kumusi on rafts.
Earlier, since the capture of the Sanan-
anda positions, 158 enemy strays had
been wiped out.
In the Solomons.
“Ek Dum”: On Feb. lit was reported
in London that Admiral Shimada, the
Japanese Navy Minister, had told the
Diet a tale about a great air attack on
a large Allied fleet in the South Solomons.
Next day Tokyo Radio relayed a com-
munique from Imperial H.Q. in which
it was asserted that the fight had taken
place off Rennell Island (Ontong Java
group), n.-e. of Malaita, and that two
Allied battleships and three cruisers had
been sunk and a battleship and a cruiser
damaged on January 30 and 31.
The Domei News Agency declared that
the fleet had been discovered steaming
north in a rough sea; that powerful
naval air squadrons had beaten off the
U.S. air escort; that the Japanese “com-
mander” hit a battleship, caused an ex-
plosion and dived headlong at the ship,
setting fire to the bridge. Torpedoes
(said Domei hopefully) then sank the
disabled vessel. Ten Jap ’planes had
been lost as the price of this “victory.”
Colonel Knox, the U.S. Navy Secre-
tary, just returned to Washington from
a tour of the Pacific, admitted that there
had been sea and air activity on both
sides, but averred that, up to February 3,
“operations had not developed beyond
a series of skirmishes.” A U.S. Navy
communique said that there had been a
number of surface and air actions be-
tween U.S. and Japanese forces in the
Solomons and that “increased Japanese
activity” indicates a major effort to re-
gain control of the whole Solomons
area:
Both the United States and the Japanese
forces have suffered some losses, but to
reveal at present the details of these en-
gagements would endanger the success of
our future operations in this area.
A spokesman added that the Japanese
claims “greatly exaggerated the United
States losses” and “much underestimated”
their own.
Colonel Knox’s comment on the com-
munique was that it was incorrect to
infer that a big fight was going on. The
Japanese, he said, “are conducting a
reconnaissance in force. A long, tough
fight is still ahead of us.”
On Gaudalcanal, the colonel said, “sub-
stantially all Japanese resistance has
been cleaned up.” There had been an
incursion of Japanese barges into the
waters off Cape Esperance, a few miles
from Henderson Field, on Jan. 31, and
they had been shelled by a United States
destroyer. U.S. forces have established
a new base on the west of Guadalcanal,
45 miles from their main camp.
In a supplementary statement issued
on Feb. 6 the colonel described opera-
tions as being in “the preliminary stage ;
both sides are trying out their foot-
work. There has been no major clash
as yet; no battle.” He added that
Japanese and American air and surface
forces had “suffered moderate losses in
the Solomons recently.”
Bombers from Australian-area bases
raided Buin with good effect on Feb. 4.
Shaping Up in Tunisia.
“Ek Dum”: It has to be acknowledged
that the enemy has so far had the
better of such fighting as has taken place
in Tunisia, With the rainy season near-
ing its end his positions along the
coast from Bizeita to near the Tripolitan
border will be challenged by several
Allied columns moving over the passes
towards Bizerta and Tunis, Sfax, Susa
and Gabes.
All these places have been severely
smitten by bombers within the past few
weeks. The Axis holds all the main
organised aerodromes. On Feb. 2 25
Axis fighters were shot down round
Gabes for a loss of 10 Allied machines.
Some correspondents place the Axis
forces in Tunisia at more than 150,000.
They have at least the makings of two
Panzer divisions with the heaviest types
of tanks ; one of the divisions came from
the Russian front.
That the enemy is not stronger is due
to the R.N. and its bulldog allies of the
air. Neither service for a moment lets
go of the Axis gullet, and so choking is
the grip that the enemy vomits into the
Mediterranean as much as he gets ashore.
Eighteen Axis ships were reported sunk
between Feb. 1 and Feb. 8, and nearly
80 have been sunk or crippled since
Nov. 8 by British subs, alone.
Air Marshal Sholto Douglas is fast
organising complete air control, and his
deadly Mosquitoes, apart from the air
umbrella which he has thrown over
operating fleets and convoys alike, are
wreaking havoc in Messina, Palermo and
other supply ports. They are very diffi-
cult visitors to deal with; the fastest
bombers in the world and carrying
heavier armament than most fighters—
four cannon and four machine-guns.
On all the lines of advance last week
there was the kind of major feeler activity
which precedes the real thing—a fierce
dig in the ribs at some pass by Allied or
Axis forces ; a step forward as the enemy
winces and steps back ; a step back as
the enemy recovers his balance and
counter-attacks. But these are only
shapings-up.
The Allied Command in North Africa
has been settled in the hands of General
Eisenhower, but the position of the ex-
perienced British generals who have con-
trolled the armies of Egypt does not seem
to be fully settled. It has been suggested
that Lieutenant-General Alexander will
command the land forces under General
Eisenhower.
Eighth Army patrols are across the
Tunisian border, and, although it has not
been possible to prevent the linkage of
Von Arnim’s and Rommel’s armies, the
German and Italian High Commands
cannot possibly be happy about the dis-
astrous events which followed the all-out
bid for Egypt.
Arakan and the Air.
“Ek Dum”; The campaign of General
Irwin’s army along the Burmese coast in
Arakan seems to have reached a full
stop from 14 to 20 miles from Akyab.
Akyab was its objective. In the 100-mile
advance from the border the army met
little resistance till it reached the Mayu
region, when it came up suddenly against
deadly defences.
It was here pointed out (B. 23 /12/’42)
that it was unlikely that the British were
attempting a main advance into Burma
by this route. The objectives are to gain
flank aerodromes, which will remove some
of the dangers of intensive air attack
along the eastern Indian border, and
take positions from which cities and mili-
tary strongpoints along the Irrawaddy can
be attacked by air from distances which
enable fighter cover to be given to our
bombers. The van of the advance
already is within 250 miles of Rangoon
and the sea routes by which the Japanese
serve their armies up the Irrawaddy,
A large portion of a great rice-growing
district has been taken over.
Little is being said officially about the
position of the land fighting. The con-
ditions are largely identical with those
of New Guinea—in point of malaria.
Burma is as bad —save that the fighting
is adjacent to heavily-populated country.
Several times operations have been held
up by the rain, which is more plentiful
in this region than in almost any part
of the world.
It is, however, clear that the primary
object of the advance is being achieved.
On Feb. 1 a London “Daily Mail” cor-
respondent reported that the British and
Australian airmen gave the Japanese
garrison in Akyab, which is on an island,
a night which they would always remem-
ber :
From dusk to dawn heavy bombers
plastered the island with tons of high
explosive bombs and incendiaries. One
pilot remarked: “If we drop much more
that island will sink.”
It “seemed as if the whole of Akyab
were alight” after the raid; and the
Japanese must have “gone to ground,”
since there was almost no a.-a. defence.
Since the advance of General Irwin’s
forces, the weight of bombs dropped on
Burma has almost doubled.
There is as yet no sign of a main land
offensive by either side along the Mani-
pur Hills to the north ; but there is still
four months to go before the season runs
out. The Japanese drive was not at full
tide till well after the fall of Singapore
last year.
When General Wavell does take the
offensive it will be suddenly. Then the
Irwin army will prove a valuable asset,
even if Akyab is still in enemy hands.
Russia's Great Days.
“Ek Dum”: After the world had had
the news from Moscow the Germans ad-
mitted the end of resistance in Stalingrad.
There were strange theatrical touches in
their reception of their worst European


mu
&
defeat in this war. Three minutes’ silence
was observed on the German Radio, and
mournful airs were played from time to
time. Shops and theatres were closed.
“For the first time,” wailed General Diet-
mar, “an entire German army has ceased
to exist.”
Said Moscow in a historic message:
Eighteen thousand prisoners were taken
between January 27 and January 31. Thus,
since the offensive on January 10, we have
taken 46,000 men. On January 3l we cap-
tured Field-Marshal Paulus, commanding
the German Sixth Army and the Fourth
Tank Army; his Chief of Staff, Lieutenant-
General Schmidt, and the whole of his
staff; together with the generals command-
ing the Fourth Tank Corps, the 51st Army
Corps, the Fourth Army Corps, the Fourth
L.I. Division, the 26th Motorised Divi-
sion, the 295th, 297th, 376th and 44th In-
fantry Divisions; also the generals com-
manding the artillery of the Fourth and
51st Army Corps The staffs of three
German divisions, a Rumanian division
(there were two) and 11 German infantry
regiments also were captured.
Our forces, according to incomplete data,
between Jan. 10 and Jan. 31 wiped out
more than 100,000 men and captured 750
aircraft, 1550 tanks, 6700 guns, more than
90.000 rifles, 8000 machine-guns, more than
60.000 lorries, three armored trains, 56 loco-
motives, 229 ammunition and equipment
dumps and a great quantity of other
material.
There was still a German pocket in the
factory area at Stalingrad. This was
apparently commanded by Lieut.-General
Streicher. He and his men did not long
hold out. Their capture was announced
on Feb. 3, along with 4500 prisoners,
the generals commanding the Eighth
Army Corps, the 24th Tank Division, the
76th, 113th and 389th Infantry Divisions
and the commander of the group of Ger-
mans west of central Stalingrad.
The German story is reprinted as a
curiosity:
The battle for Stalingrad has ended.
The Sixth Army, under Field-Marshal
von Paulus, true to its oath to fight to the
last breath, has succumbed to enemy
superiority in unfavorable circumstances.
The Sixth Army’s fate was shared by a
Luftwaffe Flak Division, two Rumanian
divisions and a Croat regiment.
It is not yet the right time to describe
the progress of operations which led to this
development. However, one thing can be
stated —the sacrifice was not in vain. As a
bulwark for our historic European mission,
this army for many weeks had broken the
onslaught from six Russian armies, although
completely encircled, and tied up strong
Russian forces for weeks of the hardest
fighting with the bitterest hardships.
German leadership was thus given time
to take counter-measures, on the execution
of which depended the fate of the entire
East Front.
The Luftwaffe, after long encirclement,
and despite the utmost efforts and heavy
losses, was unable to guarantee sufficient
supplies by air. The possibility of relieving
the Sixth Army dwindled more and more,
until it finally disappeared.
The Sixth Army refused two enemy de-
mands for surrender It will be created
again.
“Re-creating” it will be the devil’s own
job, and it will be still more difficult to
restore the carefully-cultivated faith in
Hitler’s infallibility—what Napoleon
called his “star.” It is necessary for dic-
tators who make war their great instru-
ment of policy to keep on winning.
Once they cease doing that they are
doomed.
Very illuminating were the comments
of General Giraud, a clear-headed
veteran who has necessarily made mili-
tary history a life-study and whose per-
sonal experiences should have cleared his
mind of illusions:
When Hitler attacked Russia I knew the
end was sure. Russia’s vastness makes it
impregnable. Hitler, like Napoleon, took
on a task beyond his country’s strength,
and, like Napoleon, he is coming to the
end of his resources.
Those splendid German divisions of
1940, with their magnificent material and
ardent, robust, intelligent, courageous
men —as a soldier I couldn’t help admir-
ing them —are dead or prisoners, and their
material is lost. The Germans will call up
their last reserves of youth, who, doubtless,
will fight gallantly, but they will be over-
whelmed by the constantly-growing re-
sources of the Allies.
And it may here be recalled what
General Ritter von Thoma, commander
of the Afrikakorps. said, according to
the New York “Times,” after his capture
and before the Russian offensive had
begun. Taken to England after being
entertained at two meals by General
Montgomery —for this that victorious
leader was ignorantly criticised —Von
Thoma declared that “Hitler has ruined
the Reichswehr” An old professional
soldier, he has the contempt of that class
for the overweening amateur, and, unless
the N.Y. “Times” has imagined it all, he
told his captors that “Hitler’s assumption
of the supreme command spells disaster
for the war machine built up by the Gen-
eral Staff.” And all the indications are
that Hitler, trying to feed his vanity and
his reputation as a wizard, kept the Sixth
Army in Stalingrad, which again and
again he pronounced the great object and
prize of his 1942 campaign, when the
General Staff would have withdrawn it
in time as it did the Ninth Army at
Kalinin in Dec., 1941.
According to Russian accounts, from
the beginning of the offensive (November
19) to the end of the chapter 240,000
Axis troops were killed and 91,000 cap-
tured in the Stalingrad area (no men-
tion of wounded; the Germans allege
that they got 47,000 sick and wounded
soldiers away by air “in the latter part of
the fighting”). In process of encircling
Stalingrad (apart from casualties north-
west of Kletskaya and Kotelnikovo
which ran above the 100,000 mark), the
Russians, it is stated, killed another 95,000
and made prisoners of an additional
72,400. Thus, inside the Don Bend,
330,000 Germans were killed and 163,000
taken prisoner, and all in an area about
40 miles wide and 50 miles deep. In
the Don, Caucasian, Rshev and Lenin-
grad sectors, numbers of killed and cap-
tured since Nov. 19 have been reckoned
at 1,500,000, and correspondents’ esti-
mates of the numbers in process of anni-
hilation in the Caucasus west of
Voronezh and in the Kursk sector run to
another 500,000 or so.
Stalin’s Review
It is on this question of Axis casual-
ties that the whole issue of the Eastern-
Front war turns. If the figures given are
even half-true, Germany is doomed and
territorial gains are a secondary matter.
Stalin said on Nov. 6:
During the war we have put out of
action over 8,000,000 officers and men.
The enemy has. .. not less than 179
divisions on our front. If to these we add
22 Rumanian divisions, 14 Finnish divisions,
13 Hungarian divisions, 10 Italian divisions,
one Slovak division and one Spanish
division we get a total of 240 divisions....
over 3,000,000 men.
The remaining divisions of Germany and
her allies are performing garrison service
in occupied countries, while part of them
are fighting in Libya or Egypt against Great
Britain. The Libyan front is diverting in
all four German and 11 Italian divisions.
Instead of the 127 divisions we were facing
in the last war, we are now facing 240
divisions. There you have the chief reason
and the foundation for the tactical success
of the Germans and their allies on our
front in the summer of this year.
Since that speech was made, on Stalin’s
reckoning 102 German and other Axis
divisions have been routed.
Russian Advances
The Germans have fallen back on the
southern front almost to the line they
held last winter. In the Voronezh area
they have been giving up with scarcely
any resistance country which they cap-
tured in 1941, retreated from in the 1941-
42 winter without fighting (except for
rearguard actions) and recaptured in the
summer of 1942.
The Russians have broken across the
railway between Kursk and Orel. There
they broke through last year, and corre-
spondents had them inside the second
defence line of Kharkov —“in the city
itself” —and about to capture it. Unfor-
tunately, that did not come to pass. On
the whole, the Russians have retaken twice
as much territory as in last winter, and—
what is more important —they have dis-
posed of the Sixth German Army and
captured large bodies of prisoners on
other fronts. They made no specific
claim to large bodies of prisoners last
winter.
So far the big enemy bases of yester-
year still hold, though some are
threatened. On Feb. 8 the Russians were
reported in the Rostov environs and there
was mention of columns of Germans
moving west toward Taganrog. In the
Caucasus and Kuban country the tests
are the towns of Novorossisk and
Krasnodar. The former is in a difficult
position as regards communications; the
latter, a city of over 200,000 people,
much in the same box. For offensive
campaigning the Russians are better off
in the Caucasus area —it is an unusually
mild winter in the Kuban country,
though further north the snow is bank-
ing up heavily.
Along the Donetz on the “Lugansk
triangle” eastward face there have been
no crossings of the river since it was re-
ported that Kamensk was captured. No-
thing has been heard of exploitation of
the bridgehead at Kamensk. North at
Isyum the Red Army is across the river.
"Too Late" for Hitler.
“Ek Dum”: It has been brought home
in tragedy and humiliation to Nazi Ger-
many that excessively long communica-
tion lines impose a tremendous strain on
man-power and resources. Stalingrad is
1400 miles from Breslau, the nearest
main German base. From Breslau to
the Donetz is nearly 1000 miles. A long
way in a snow winter.
It is these factors, the wastage they
cause and the time factor which will de-
termine the relative strengths of the com-
batants when Germany comes to grips
with the decisive fighting Allies, Britain
and the U.S.A,
Schlieffen’s Plan
There was no precedent to guide a
German invasion of Russia as far as the
Volga. Before 1914 the Seven Years’
War was the only campaign in which
the two countries were in holts right
back to the Dark Ages, but German mili-
tary thought has always been at variance
with the actual policy pursued in the
present war.
It was dominated latterly by Schlieffen,
and expressed in the last war by Falken-
hayn. Falkenhayn regarded Moscow and
Leningrad as “useless objectives” and
preached that the only part of Russia
worth attacking was the Ukraine.
Instead of choosing this policy, Hitler
followed Napoleon’s tracks and divided
his forces into three instead of concen-
trating on the difficult advance in the
south, which it was desperately hard to
co-ordinate with the northern moves, or
adopting some other scheme which called
for short communication lines.
Schlieffen’s plan for Russian conquest
was much like his plan for France —to
keep lines of communication short, and
not to allow the advance front to be
broken by marshes and other natural
features which abound inside the Russian
border ; to entice the Russians to fight
with their full strength west of the
marshes of Pripet, the Beresina and the
Dnieper and there submit them to quick
and decisive beetle-crushing against ob-
stacles. Tannenberg, though it was not
decisive, was a product of this strategy.
So was Hindenburg’s plan of November,
1914, but he had not enough troops to
carry it to its proper conclusion, and he
baulked at the necessary measure urged
on him by his younger generals—to draw
back through Silesia and let the Russians
follow, a procedure which would have
opened the way to roll up Russian flanks
or break round their rear.
It needs little imagination to calculate
how much effort, man-power, fuel and
ton mileage the Germans would have
saved if they could have fought the Rus-
sians in the Baltic States, Poland and
Rumania instead of extending their lines
to the Volga and the Caucasus.
Hitler has paid dearly in effort and
exhaustion for his tourist complex. He
may remain strong enough to push for-
ward again in spring—he must push for-
ward if he is to cut the supply lines which
his policy in Russia has given Britain
and the U.S. time to establish.
At the same time, he may have decided
on a new Russian policy—the one which
actually won the war in France for the
Allies because of its economic effects
on man-power. He said in October that,
having all he wanted in Europe, he was
going on the defensive (“Let the enemy
attack if he will; after all, defence is still
cheaper”).
No general turns from offensive to
defensive unless he is forced to do so. But
to eke out his man-power Hitler may be
compelled to adopt trench or fortress
warfare in Russia while he prepares for
the onslaughts which he knows will come
on other fronts or attempts a new adven-
ture. Possibly across the Dardanelles and
Bosphorus to cut the Russian supply
lines, to get the Mosul oil, to draw off
British forces in the Mediterranean from
danger points and to try to prevent Syria
and Palestine from being turned into vast
bases through which supplies can be
thrown across the Caucasus to Russia
and into India.
Whatever he does, he is too late. Bul-
garia may come in and bring him up to
30 divisions of sound, stolid fighters, but,
if Bulgaria does fight, the Turks certainly
will be all in with divisions of fighters
as stubborn and more enterprising.
In any case, the crux of the matter is
that Hitler has passed his man-power
and productive optimum, even though he
mobilises “not only Germany but the
whole resources of Europe,” as Berlin
threatened to do last week. He is facing
two countries, in Britain and U.S.A.,
which have not nearly reached their joint
optimum. . . ...
Here history again is repeating itselt.
The last war ended with Russia out or
it, France and Germany and Italy ail
on the decline in man-power, but Britain
reaching its zenith with nearly as many
men in the field as Germany despite
population disparity, and Uncle Sam only
beginning to flex his muscles and use his
industrial might.
Also, it ended with all the ingenuities
of German war technique—circus fight-
ing in the air, gas, pillboxes, artillery
barrages —overcome so that the decisive
factor was that one which the Anglo-
Saxon races can produce in the best
quality; the factor which in the end
wins land wars —“the Poor Blanky In-
fantry,” an element badly mangled in
Germany already, but scarcely scratched
in the two great Allied nations.
The crucial war for Hitler is the sea
war, and judging by his propaganda he
knows it. Even if he were to win m
Russia he must still lose the world war,
as happened in 1918. And it is obvious
that he cannot finally and decisively beat
Russia without breaking that country s
link with British and American sources
of supply. He cannot beat Britain and
U.S.A. at all or even win a stalemate
unless he can rout them along their lines
of communications. And that he can-
not do. ________
“Ek Dum”: Most enterprising and in-
defatigable of air travellers, Mr.
Churchill, complete with staff, bobbed up
in Turkey last week. Cyprus and Tripoli
also saw him before he returned to Lon-
don. His arrival in Turkey was preluded
by persistent assertions from Berlin that
British attacks on the Dodecanese were
imminent. Contemporaneously there
were large troop movements in Bulgaria.
The nature of the Turkish conversations
has, of course, been concealed, but both
sides seem satisfied.
* * * *
Maorilanders signposted the whole of
their 1400-mile desert route to Tripoli at
700-yard intervals with diamond signs
on iron pickets. The first was set up on
Nov. 2 at El Alamein ; the last in Tripoli
on Jan. 23. On the whole journey, the
division travelled self-contained from
guns to water. It is now resting, says
General Freyberg, V.C., “in pleasant
surroundings, with unlimited water, after
the journey of three months on brackish
water and battle rations.” But the only
time the lion-hearted Freyberg rests is
when he is in hospital receiving treat-
ment for one of his many wounds.
« * » «
Maoriland’s Defence Minister an-
nounces that a New Zealand cruiser suf-
fered minor damage from enemy action
recently in the South Pacific. Nine men
were killed, two missing are presumed
killed, two died of wounds and eight
were seriously wounded.
* * * *
In the first 36 days of 1943 there were
17 air attacks on Germany and Italy—a
fifth as many as in the whole of 1942.
Americans helped the R.A.F. last week
to bomb places as far apart as the Ger-
man North Sea coast and Sicily.
* * * *
On Sunday Dr. Evatt broadcast an
excellent account of the heroic exploits
of H.M.A.S. Perth, which, with the U.S.
cruiser Houston, “went down fighting to
the very end” in Sunda Strait on the night
of Feb. 28, 1942. “While all the particu-
lars cannot as yet be fully authenticated,”
the Attorney-General said, closing on a
hopeful note, “it seems certain that a
substantial number of Perth’s personnel
was rescued. The enemy claims that
approximately 300 prisoners are in his
hands.”
* * * *
The beginning of the end? :
Mussolini has made queer changes in his
Government. His son-in-law, Count Ciano, he
transferred from the Foreign Ministry to the
Ambassadorship at the Vatican. Musso. him-
self adds Foreign Affairs to his Ministries of the
Interior, War, Navy and Air, so that every-
thing affecting warlike and exterior relations is
in his own clutch. Dino Grandi, who was Am-
bassador to Britain (1932-39), one of the
leaders of the march on Rome and the inevit-
able representative of Italy at international con-
ferences, has been relieved of his job as
Minister for Justice with his immediate con-
nection with the Crown as Keeper of the Seal.
He remains President of the Fascist Grand
Council. Grandi was popular in England, a
great clubman in London —Athenaeum, St.
James’s, Travellers’, Bath and Turf.
It is a set-up which must cause Berlin serious
misgivings. There are other changes—Giacomo
Acerbo a friend of Grandi, an internationally
famous' agricultural economist with a special
knowledge of European food and land organi-
sation becomes Finance Minister, and Educa-
tion is taken out of the hands of a rabid Fas-
cist editor and placed in those of the
Rector of the ancient and conservative Univer-
sity of Pisa. The changes smell strongly of
negotiation.


Divorce Notices.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES—In Divorce.
TO WILLIAM TREVOR DAVIES late of
Brown Street Paddington.—TAKE NOTICE
that GRACE NELLIE SARAH DAVIES has
filed a Petition for Divorce No. 2369 of 1942
on the grounds of desertion without just cause
or excuse for three years and upwards If you
wish to defend you may enter an appearance
before the Thirtieth day of April One thousand
nine hundred and forty-three and obtain a copy
of the petition without charge from MESSRS.
BRAYE & MALCOMSON Solicitors 92 Pitt
Street Sydney.—(l.s.) C. K. BODY, Registrar
in Divorce.
TO ALEXANDER DAVID CRAVING for-
merly of Crib Point in the State of Victoria but
now of parts unknown. —TAKE NOTICE that
PEARL LILLIAN CRAVING has instituted
proceedings against you for a dissolution of
marriage on the ground of desertion Unless you
enter an appearance in the Office of the Pro-
thonotary of the Supreme Court at Melbourne
on or before the Eighth day of March 1943
the case may proceed in your absence AND
FURTHER if you intend to defend the said suit
you must cause an answer to be filed in the
said office on or before the Eighteenth day of
March 1943.—W. E. C. TREYVAUD, of 395
Collins Street Melbourne, Solicitor for the
Petitioner.
SPORTING NOTIONS
(Conducted by "PILOT")
Autumn racing may bring about an
alteration, but so far this season Sydney
is very weak in staying three-year-olds.
Main Topic is the only one with claims
in that respect. He lost his Derby oppo-
nents in fast time, but, though many of
his backers claimed that he was unlucky
not to have at least gained a place in the
Metropolitan, little excuse was possible
for him in City Tattersall’s Cup. It’s
Funny met him 21b. better than w.f.a.
terms, and beat him a neck. It was a
good run, but not one that stamped Main
Topic an exceptional three-year-old.
Hall Stand’s second in the Derby did
not put him in the light of a stayer, nor
did Grand Prodige’s close third. At one
time it was thought Baroda would shine
over a distance, but though since he ran
fourth in the Derby he has won and run
second in open company he did not
finish like a real stayer in Enderby’s
January Handicap. It was reckoned
Angel might stay, but, though a winner
at a mile after her fifth in the Derby, she
has done nothing recently to uphold that
idea. Modulation’s Tatt.’s Club run with
7.5 said nothing favorable for him as
a St. Leger possibility. Nicely placed
at the top of the straight he was a long
way back at the finish, Riverton stayed
on well to win the Villiers, but, while
that performance would entitle him to
be taken into account for the St. Leger,
either the Autumn Plate or Doncaster
on the same day might be given prefer-
ence. At present it is difficult to go be-
yond Main Topic in attempting to select
the St. Leger winner.
♦ * *• *
Laureate, A.J.C. Derby winner, and
Zonda, Oakleigh Plate winner, are two
of the most interesting entrants for im-
portant autumn races in Melbourne.
Whereas Zonda is reported to be work-
ing well enough to indicate a return to
her best form, Laureate had not visited
the training tracks at the time of writing.
Plenty of road work and swimming, how-
ever, had rid him of a lot of surplus
flesh, and, unless there is a recurrence
of the tendon trouble that put him out
of action early last spring, trainer H.
Freedman hopes he will be fit to contest
the Futurity Stakes next Saturday week.
Laureate was a late entrant for that race
—it will cost £l5 to scratch or £3O to
run —but he was not nominated for the
Newmarket or Australian Cup.
Leahero, who at one stage was nominal
favorite for the Victoria Derby is being
trained as a sprinter this autumn. His
connections have decided against risking
his brilliance in a further attempt to make
a stayer of him, and he will be given his
chance in Victoria’s two most important
autumn handicaps. Leahero is partial to
Flemington, and his recent work has been
to the satisfaction of his trainer, P. Burke.
Plica’s success at Mentone has raised
hopes that he might be the third succes-
sive Newmarket winner trained by H.
Wolters. Latter has won the last two
Newmarkets with Kelos and All Veil, and
he has a good opinion of Plica, who
stands slightly over 17.1 hands high and
is one of the most massive horses in
training. Plica did not defeat a particu-
larly strong field at Mentone, but it was
his first race since the spring, and im-
provement is probable. All Veil, who
was blistered on both knees before being
sent for a spell, has stood up to his recent
work satisfactorily, and, all going well,
will make another attempt on the New-
market. At his best, there are few better
horses up the straight six, his last five
wins having been recorded on this track.
Heart’s Desire, another member of Wol-
ters’s team, is doing well in the early
stages of her Australian Cup preparation,
and probably wifi resume racing in w.f.a.
company. Cup success would be com-
pensation for her Caulfield Cup second
and Melbourne Cup third.
* * ♦ *
Backers who purpose making Hall
Stand the first leg of a Doncaster and
Sydney Cup double are naturally query-
ing what weight he is likely to get. If
handicapped immediately after his
Hobartville Stakes and Rosehill Guineas
wins it is probable he would have been
high up the list, but his three subsequent
defeats may cause the handicapper to
refrain from overburdening him. It must
be added that Hall Stand ran as if out
of his distance in the three races in which
be failed. In the Craven Plate he car-
ried 7.11, and finished nearly half a dozen
lengths behind Yaralla (9.0), whose recent
form may cause him to drop slightly in
weight. That might have a bearing on
Hall Stand’s treatment. The latter’s
weight-for-age at a mile in April is 8.8.
Jacko, the last three-year-old winner of
the Doncaster, carried only 6.10, and
Valicare holds the weight record for any
winner of that age. She had 8.9, against
the 8.1 successfully carried by Fuji San,
also a three-year-old, a year earlier. In
1890 Sir William won with 8.6, the mini-
mum then being 6.0.
He He He He
A Brisbane writer says that, though
T. Spencer contemplates early retirement,
the odds are against his dropping out
while Auction continues to race. If Bris-
bane’s crack sprinter goes to Melbourne
for the Newmarket it would be safe to
bet that Spencer will at least postpone
his retirement until after that race.
Spencer has scored 13 wins on Auction.
H: He He He
“You’ve got lots of riders in Sydney,”
remarked an American follower of
racing, “but it seems to me that it is
waste of money for a stranger to go
outside one of four or five in trying for
a winner. Some of the others win occa-
sionally, but they are just as likely to
give you a bad ride as a good one. That
guy Munro is a hot finisher, and would
hold his own against any of our boys in
the States in getting everything out of
a horse.”
We are often told that it is the same
money turning over and over on the tote,
and that in consequence an erroneous
impression is created in respect of expen-
diture in that direction. Correct, to some
extent, no doubt; but those numerous
tote bettors who, consequent on inability
to pick a winner or a place-getter, have
to find fresh capital for each race would
be difficult to convince on that score.
Nor do dividend collectors put all their
winnings back into the machine. One
thing certain is that in Sydney tote bet-
ting per person is considerably higher
than a year ago.
* « « HE
South Australian Premier Playford be-
lieves that where racing is concerned
there should be no half-measures about
austerity. He banned it in his State when
vested with that power by the Federal
Government, and, despite a recent letter
from the Prime Minister which suggested
that the position could be eased so as to
permit of a certain amount of racing and
trotting, as in the other States, he says
that, so far as he is concerned, there will
be no alteration of the position. Rough
on racing men, but the S.A. Premier at
least shows that he is not bothering
about vote-catching for the next elec-
tion. Must be something lacking in his
political make-up.
He He He He
Two of Westralia’s best stayers, Temple
Chief and Pantheist, both by Pantheon,
will do their future racing in Melbourne.
He * He He
Competent racing men endorse the
V.R.C. plan for uniform balloting when
acceptors exceed the safety limit for any
race. Horses have been divided into three
grades, and the interests of the better-
class and younger performers have been
safeguarded. Older horses with inferior
records will be the principal sufferers in
the new order —the older they are the
less chance they will have of running
when eliminations are necessary. The
regulations may react harshly on owners
of some of the veterans still able to hold
their own against the younger brigade,
but unwieldy entries have necessitated
stern action in an attempt to sift the
wheat from the chaff.
He HE He He
Inglis and Son’s catalogue for the
yearling sales at Randwick in April in-
cludes several youngsters either fully or
closely related to two-year-old winners
of this season. One is a sister to Clarion
Call, and it might be safe to bet that
she will realise more than the 70gns. for
which the latter was sold. Brothers to
Moorland and Craglia are likely to go
higher than the 210gns. and 120gns. re-
spectively realised by those two, and a
half-brother, by Marconigram, to Haddon
Hall will probably do better than the
280gns. made by the latter. Others cata-
logued are brothers to Ajixa and Royal
Peer and a sister to The Beacon (500gns.
last year). A brother to the Derby win-
ner Main Topic should be productive
of keen competition.
* * * *
Yaralla was the disappointment of the
A.J.C. Anniversary meeting. As it was
his first race for some time, his failure
in the Challenge Stakes was excusable,
but no excuse was possible for him in
the Australia Day Handicap. He looked
at his best, but, though at the turn he
seemed certain to play a big part in the
decision of the race, there was no fight
in him over the last furlong. Really
good weight-for-age horses will not be
numerous at the A.J.C. autumn meeting
—visitors from Melbourne being unlikely
—and if Yaralla should not return to his
best backers will hardly know which way
to turn in selecting the probable winner
of the All-Aged Stakes. However, a lot
can happen in two and a half months,
and April may see Yaralla again right
at the top of the tree among our sprinters.
* * * *
There were 14 final nominations for
the Caulfield Futurity Stakes. Those of
note include Reception, Laureate, Law
Student and Zonda.
* * * «
At the close of the 1941 season the
English Jockey Club handicapper, A.
Fawcett, rated Sun Chariot the best of
the two-year-olds. He placed her on top
in the Free Handicap, and his judgment
was correct, as Sun Chariot proved her-
self the leading three-year-old in Eng-
land last year. At the end of 1942
the Jockey Club handicapped again gave
pride of place to another filly, Lady Sybil,
in the Free Handicap, her weight being
9.7. Next came the colts Nasrullah
(9.6) and Umiddad (9.5), owned by the
Aga Khan, and then another filly,
Ribbon (9.3). Lady Sybil, who was
bred by her owner, M. Benson, is by
Nearco from Sister Sarah, by Abbot’s
Trace. Nasrullah is also by Nearco.
* * * ♦
A little over a week ago it appeared as
if the drive against starting-price betting
was to be something really serious. How-
ever, as it has since appeared in print
that tapping of telephone lines is barred
and mails in private boxes must not be
examined in search of evidence of illegal
betting, it almost seems as if the position
will be “as you were,” so far as the
P.M.G.’s Department is concerned.
sfc * ❖ *
In future barrier positions at Sydney
meetings will be drawn on the courses
on the morning the races are to be run.
However, this will not adversely affect
betting. There will be no delay, as the
numbers will be promptly hoisted after
the running of the previous race, and
almost before bookmakers are ready to
commence business. Owners and trainers
are not to have any knowledge of their
horses’ positions before they are sema-
phored.
* * * *
Miss Dorothy Paget did better than
any other woman racing horses in Eng-
land and Ireland last year. She had 16
winners of 26 races, but as the prize-
money totalled only £2920 she was a lot
out of pocket, unless any betting she
did gave substantial profit. King George,
as cabled, was the leading owner in Eng-
land last year with five winners of 10
races, and £10,535 in prize-money. Aga
Khan did well with 10 winners of 20
races, carrying £8444. In Ireland J.
McGrath, with 17 winners of 31£ races
and £7lll in stakes, distanced every
other owner.
* * * *
Few horses have progressed to the
same extent as Reception after turning
six years. His last run at that age in
Sydney was in September, 1941, when he
won a seven-furlongs welter at Rosehill
with 9.13, the minimum being 8.0. On
going to Melbourne his first win was with
8,5 (minimum 7.0) at Moonee Valley, a
little over fourteen months ago. He has
done so well since that now, rising eight,
he is topweight in the Oakleigh Plate
with 10.2 (minimum 6.7). Nearest him
are the 1941 Newmarket winner All Veil
and High Title with 9.7. Zonda has 8.7,
against the 7.13 she successfully carried
in the 1941 Oakleigh Plate she ran third
in the Newmarket the same year with 8.8.
# * * *
In England last year G. Richards led
the jockeys with 67 wins, but that he
should have had only 311 mounts gives
an idea of the extent to which racing has
been cut. In 1937 he had 987 mounts
for 214 wins; in 1938 he won 206 of
the 931 races in which he rode, and in
1939 his 726 mounts returned 155 wins.
M. Beary, who is in the veteran class,
shared third place with D. Smith last
year, each scoring 42 wins; and 55-
year-old F, Herbert, who won the 1919
Adelaide Cup on Dependence, was ninth
with 19. In prize-money F. Darling was
an easy first among the trainers.
* * * *
Unforgivable offenders in racing are
those owners and trainers who give out
one of their horses as “a good thing,”
and then, when it fails, complain of un-
fair treatment by the handicapper. They
are in much the same class as those indi-
viduals who, when they lose their money
on anything, are eloquent on its alleged
“deadness” as an excuse for their faulty
judgment.
• * * *
The Irish National Hunt Steeplechase
Committee has no intention of allowing
horses trained outside Ireland to win at
meetings under its control. Last year it
issued an order forbidding horses to run
in Ireland that were in training or located
outside that country in and after June,
It recently confirmed that order.
* * * *
Hyperion (Gainsborough-Selene) was
an easy first in the winning stallions’ list
in Great Britain and Eire up to Oct. 30
of last year. His total was £13,901, won
by 20 different horses in 30 races. Fair-
way was next with 15 winners of 23 races
and £9630. Then came Mahmoud and
Bahram, both of whom are now in
America. There were 25 foalings to
Hyperion last year.
* * * *
Lord Nufiield’s recent wins so greatly
impressed Maoriland handicappers that,
with the exception of Kindergarten, he is
over short courses evidently rated the best
horse there. In the £lOOO Telegraph
Handicap, six furlongs, at Wellington he
was weighted at 10.3, the minimum being
7.0. Nearest to him was Neenah 9.0.
* * * *
The following were the principal two-
year-old winners in America last year:
Occupation, nine wins, $192,385 (ap-
proximately £A58,515); Count Fleet, 10
wins, $75,245; Devil’s Thumb, six wins,
$62,875 ; Askmenow, three wins, $39,610;
and Blue Swords, five wins, $35,065. The
figures are from the “Thoroughbred
Record,” and, though they presumably
include minor-place money, show what is
possible for a firsFclass two-year-old in
America.
* * * *
The stud fees of some of the principal
English stallions this year are as follows:
Hyperion and Nearco, 400gns. each;
Fairway and Blue Peter, 300gns. each.
Last year’s Derby winner, Watling Street,
commences at 198gns., and the King’s
Two Thousand Guineas winner. Big
Game, at 250gns.
* * * H=
Totalisator betting at Christmas and
New Year meetings (galloping and trot-
ting) is stated to have been a record for
Maoriland. At the Auckland R.C. fix-
ture the turnover for the three days was
£517,972. Previously Maoriland’s best was
£511,455 for four days at the Auckland
R.C. meeting ip 1920-21. On the recent
occasion the club paid £49,792 in taxa-
tion. Of this the totalisator tax contri-
buted £25,896 and dividend duty £22,660.
There were also amusement and stakes
taxes. Wellington put through £146,080
on its Cup day, against £77,822 on the
corresponding day last year.
Hockey Bennell is a busy boxer these
days—or nights. Having his third bout
at Leichhardt in four weeks, he put it
all over George Cook, who looked at
least 201 b. heavier. A right floored Cook
in the twelfth. Staggering to his feet at
“nine” he could have been bowled over
again before the final bell, but Bennell
chose to spare him.
Tommy Johns was as wild as a hawk
in his second meeting with Les Fitzgerald
at the Sydney Stadium. Outpointed from
the first round to the ninth, he butted
Fitz. in that round, and, repeating the
offence, was disqualified. The manage-
ment held up his share of the “gate” till
Monday as a warning.
FOR ROSEHILL.
(Before acceptances .)
By “PILOT."
Trial Stakes: Gauntlet, 1 ; White
Feather, 2 ; Gryphon, 3.
Macarthur Stakes: Mayfowl, 1 ;
Frontier, 2 ; Denton, 3.
Three-year-old Handicap ; Modu-
lation, 1 ; Hauteur, 2 ; Courallie or
Manday Son, 3.
Flying Handicap: Faerie Queene,
1 ; Hesione, 2 ; Petruchio, 3.
Rosehill Handicap: Angus, 1 ;
Widden, 2 ; War Trophy, 3.
Carlingford Mile: Fearless, 1 ;
Tel Asur, 2; Willie Green or Mor-
tine, 3.


Women's Letters
From Sydney
The Conservatorium was packed for
the opening of the Beethoven Festival,
the first for 16 years. Inquiries at the
ticket office just before the concert
started revealed there were four tickets
to be sold —returns. They would not go
far among the thousands who had been
turned away. Sharp to the minute the
Anthem was played. The orchestra was
in great form. Bernard Heinze was the
conductor and Beatrice Tange the solo
pianist. She wore jade-green moires.
It was impossible to forget there was
a war on ; there were too many girls
and boys in uniform. But even they gave
themselves up to the enjoyment of the
moment. Leaving the hall there was not
a carping voice heard. For once, the
feast seemed to have suited every palate.
The Governor and Lady Wakehurst
were in the appreciative audience. With
them sat the Alexander Gordon lady, the
Bearup couple of the A.B.C. and Peter
Lubbock. A.B.C. Commissioner Cleary
and his wife had seats nearer the front.
To see the large crowds sitting on the
lawns around the Con. on Saturday to
listen to the No. 2 Concerto and the
“Eroica” relayed through amplifiers from
the hall was a convincing proof of Syd-
ney’s love of music. To this audience
under the stars Lindley Evans between
items gave a short commentary on what
was to follow. Inside the hall there was
the same tense enthusiasm for this, the
second, as was shown for the first con-
cert of the Beethoven Festival. Con-
ductor Bernard Heinze must have been
pleased with his reception. Eunice Gar-
diner, all in white, was the concerto
pianist.
The Rawson Institute is going to have
its Merchant Navy Club, but to the
sailors who have known its hospitality the
place will still be known as “The Insti-
tute’’ or the Mission to Seamen. Making
the club has only meant the renaming and
redecorating of some of the rooms. What
used to be the gym. is now the dance-
room. It is 60ft. by 40ft. The walls are
cream, the floor perfect. A canteen at
one end ensures a continuous supply ot
tea and coffee, and a huge refrigerator
ensures that cold drinks will be really
cold.
A gas stove has been installed for
emergency grill breakfasts. The lounge
is the old dance-room. This has glass-
topped tables ; its furniture, very modern,
is of tubular steel; its curtains sea-green,
scrolled in silver. The billiard tables
have been moved into the old supper-
room. The officers’ and apprentices
rooms are now emergency sleeping quar-
ters. Tonight Lady Wakehurst will open
the club. Probably there will be dancing,
but anyway the official opening dance
will take place tomorrow, Thursday.
Eighty-seyen years ago when the insti-
tute was opened people spoke of seamen
or sailors and the term Merchant Navy
was not known. For all these years the
Rawson Institute has done the work that
Merchant Navy clubs are doing now It
has provided recreation and reading
rooms, and, best of all, companionship
for thousands of sailors every year For
the year ending May, 1942, 55,000 sea-
men. made it their headquarters while in
Sydney. And that number is a fair aver-
age of the institute’s visitors every
year.
Men of every creed, every nationality
and every color are welcome. Members
of the Harbor Lights Ladies’ Guild are
on duty every afternoon and evening.
There are dances on three nights in each
week, pictures on two nights, and a con-
cert on one night. For Sunday night
there is no programme. The men usu-
ally write letters, read or play billiards.
The various shipping companies are
generous —but do not by any means
wholly support the institute. Every year
at St. Andrew’s Cathedral there is a sea-
farers’ service. Here the flags of the
various companies are seen (28 there
are), but the place of honor is reserved
for the “Flying Angel.” This is the
institute’s own flag, a silver angel with
an open book on a marine-blue back-
ground. This is flown at every port where
British ships go (and in peace-time that
meant 127 ports), and is looked for by
every seaman.
The first thing visitors noticed when
they arrived at the party given by Syd-
ney’s newly-elected Mayor and his wife
was her friendly smile. Then her small
white hat caught the glance. Her dress
was of floral silk. This was their first
formal party, and to it were invited the
aldermen and the heads of departments
of the City Council with their respective
wives.
Nothing better could have been chosen
by the Mayoress than the ferns and palms
with which she had had the rooms deco-
rated. There were a few bowls of roses,
but after the glare of the sun-baked
streets the eyes of all were soothed and
rested by the cool greenness of ferns
massed in fireplaces and the palms in the
corners of the rooms. Among former
city hostesses present were Mrs. Arthur
McElhone, Miss Hilda Marks and Mrs.
Crick.
Fifty-two thousand miles on the merci-
ful work of the Red Cross have been
notched up by Frank Cayley during the
months he has voyaged in a hospital ship.
The ship is now almost entirely given
over to ward space. The largest ward
holds 40, the smallest eight beds. Alto-
gether there is room for 500 patients,
though usually 400 are carried. Mr.
Cayley, whose wife is still busy with her
all-important work of masseuse, is in-
teresting when he tells of the reactions of
enemy wounded when they find they are
receiving the same care and comforts as
Australian soldiers. Cardigans, shorts,
pyjamas and cigarettes are among the
Red Cross equipment. .
The experience Matron Davies gained
in the 1914-18 war as an Army nurse is
going to stand her in good‘stead now
that she is in charge of Berida, the latest
Red Cross convalescent home to be
opened. This is situated at Bowral and
was the gift of Dr. Jessica Freeman.
With the £5OOO given by Mrs. J. A.
Schofield in memory of her husband,
Professor Schofield, additions were made,
and the home will now accommodate 53.
It is intended to be a home for service
women, but if necessity arises a switch
may occur and the home be given over to
service men. At the moment women of
the auxiliary services, including Army
nurses who have returned from the
Middle East, are steadily regaining their
strength in its restful atmosphere. Pic-
ture from Norton Trevaire.
A letter from London written in
November reminds of the blessing of our
sunny skies. It was the middle of the
month, and the city had scarcely seen
the sun for nearly a week. It also
tells of an austerity Christmas pudding
in the making. But it wasn’t a dismal
letter. It told blithely of a 2oz. ration
of tea a week, of coffee without stint, or
tobacco that had become “much easiei.
That Christmastide is the time for
theatrical shows is almost an article ot
faith with the soldiers. Two letters from
far apart battlefronts tell of Christmas-
week entertainments. The first describes
a show in which two of the lads, dressed
as glamor girls in flowing evening frocks,
had their audience mystified until one
came forth and gave an impersonation
of Carmen Miranda. Then the too, too
deep note in his voice revealed his sex.
Far away from that scene Kenn Brod-
ziak’s “Crazy with the Heat” was shitt-
ing the mosquitoes before a gale ot
laughter. Stage director of this madness
was Hugh Goldie ; musical director, John
Robinson. Kenn, now a sergeant in the
R A.A.F., though never a heavyweight,
reports the loss of over a stone and
“never feeling better in my life. ?
The two daughters of Mosman s
ML A., D. P. Macdonald, have an-
nounced their engagements. Winifred
who is an A.I.F. nurse, is to marry Lieut.
Brian Bray. He is a son of the F. A.
Brays, of Kiama and Balgowlah Mar-
jorie, who is with the W.A.A.A.F. in
Queensland, has given her promise to
Flight-Sergeant Peter Gordon Brown,
R.A.A.F. He is the son of the H. A.
Browns, of St. Kilda, Victoria. Mr. Mac-
donald was the Presbyterian minister at
Mosman before going in for politics.
From Melbourne
The Blue Wings Air Force Auxiliary
is the latest group to prove that a small
city shop is one of the best ways of rais-
ing funds if it is run with zest. Atten-
dants must be prepared for long hours
on the feet and must be good at mental
arithmetic, but the auxiliary is finding
that it doesn’t take long to make a busi-
ness woman if the will is there. The
shop is in Manchester Unity areade and
is solely for eatables. Sandwiches, cakes
and jam are the pillars of the stock,
made, of course, by auxiliary members,
and the wares have proved so popular
with shoppers that the shop has had a
weekly average profit of £l2 a week in
its first six months of life. Already £250
has been paid into the funds of the
R.A.A.F. Auxiliaries Committee.
Inter-Dominion and Allied felicitations
have been the order of the day since the
High Commissioner Davis couple from
Canada arrived in Melbourne. The Fred
Palmers (he is Canada’s Trade Commis-
sioner here) gave a welcome party in the
late afternoon at their home in Haw-
thorn. Most of those there were well
versed in all aspects of the war effort in
this zone, and the Dutch were repre-
sented. The Colin Fraser and Robert
Knox ladies were ornamental, and the
Royle lady was nautically trim in her
usual quiet style. Mrs. Davis is good-
looking and has a pleasant line of talk.
There is a terrific rush to catch her for
a brief reception or tea before she is
quite overwhelmed and decides to go
back to peaceful Canberra.
Unexpected leave gave Captain Nor-
man Whitelaw and Patricia Prichard an
opportunity to make swift wedding plans
last week. The bride, pictured here, is
the daughter of Dr. Nigel Prichard and
Mrs. Prichard, and niece of novelist
Katharine Susannah of that ilk. She has
been doing a war job of late, and will
go back to it in a few weeks when hus-
band must rejoin his regiment. Captain
Whitelaw has seen service in Greece,
Crete and the Middle East, and went
straight to the fighting area when he
returned to Australia. He is the son
of Major-General Whitelaw, and had his
brother, Major Fred Whitelaw, as his best
man at the wedding at Christ Chinch,
South Yarra.
Yooralla School, which is for crippled
children undergoing treatment at the
Children’s Hospital, is starting another
year in its new environment in the hills.
The change of scene has proved to be of
great benefit to the children, and every-
one connected with the school will be
sorry when the time comes to move back
to town. The children are under the
constant care of resident physiotherapists,
teachers and nurses, so that they are
saved travelling. The boarding-school
idea is especially suited to children under-
going treatment, as damage which it migh
take months to repair might be done it a
child were allowed to take off dressings
or splints. Of course the parents have
their point of view, and one difficulty
the school faces is the opposition o
children’s families to their removal to
such a distance, especially m these days
of restricted travel.
• Saturday was chosen by the authorities
of Toorak College (which now lives at
Frankston) to be opening day tor tne
new kindergarten and other addltl ° n
the school. From the days when it was
at Toorak this college has been the train-
ing ground for many of Victoria s bright-
est girls. It is now getting used to a
new headmistress, Mrs. War die, forme ry
Miss Scantlebury, sister of Dr. vera
Scantlebury-Brown, who journeyed down
to Frankston to say a few congratula-
tory words on the first occasion on which
her sister appeared officially in her new
role. Mrs. Wardle used to live in Kenya,
and has travelled widely, having attended
many education conferences.
Mrs. Louis Esson (professionally Dr.
Hilda Bull) has spent one of the busiest
weeks of a busy life in applying the last
bit of spit-and-polish to the renewed
premises of the New Theatre, which now
drops the title of club and stands up as
Melbourne’s latest “little” theatre. Its
first play, “Sabotage,” went to final
rehearsal while the carpenters and
painters were putting the finishing touches
to the renovations, which have made a
small but compact theatre which seats
about 250 people. Mrs. Esson used to
play in many stage productions, but
nowadays she prefers to pull her weight
on the production side.
The Fighting French are planning
many activities for the year, including a
shop in the city. These shops make so
much money that they are regarded as
small goldmines by the various move-
ments that run them. One of the troubles
ahead of the F.F. is to find a suitable
site, for not to be on the route of the
wayfarers who frequent the city chasing
bargains is no use at all. The F.F. move-
ment is benefiting from a showing of
“Sabotage.”
Lud Mayor Nettlefold is keeping his
' promise to hit a trail between highbrow
and lowbrow music at his citizens’ con-
certs. An Allied swing band supplied
hot rhythm at Sunday’s concert, and, had
there been room, staid citizens might
have shuffled it across the Town Hall
floor. Space not permitting this exercise,
they signified their appreciation in the
usual manner. A rumor that other city
mayors are about to follow suit and give
Sunday-afternoon concerts instead of
banquets and balls would surprise no one,
but so far lacks confirmation.
The National Theatre Movement's
well-known plan of gathering in an opera
and period wardrobe stood it in good
stead for “The Lady With the Lamp.
Shirley Fosdick’s draperies were delight-
ful, and, with her thick, heavy black hair
parted in the middle and caught low on
the neck, gave her the authentic Florence
Nightingale touch. Perhaps gazing at the
austerity modes* has given women of this
era an eye for the full-skirted period, but,
whatever the cause, it looked comfort-
able and secure.
As the Victorian Nurses’ Fund (for
returned service nurses) benefits from the
season it was pleasing to see the big turn-
out for the first night. City Fathers and
their wives, and, in some cases, their
daughters and even granddaughters, were
in the throng.
An engagement of University and par-
ticularly medical school interest is that
of Dr. Ruth Farrer to Dr. lan Cheno-
weth, announced last week. Both are
residents of Melbourne Hospital, and
graduated together last May. Dr. Ruth
Farrer, like her sister Dr. Rachel, plays
hockey and, like her sister, is a Melb Uni.
blue and well known in other States
which she has visited with the Uni. team.
Dr. Chenoweth is son of Victorian Taxa-
tion Commissioner R. W. Chenoweth and
Mrs. Chenoweth, and Dr. Farrer is the
daughter of Mr. and Mrs. J. H. Farrer,
of Heidelberg.
Another medical engagement is that of
Capt. Gordon Levinson and Mary
Bennett, both Westralians, who came
over to our medical school. Both were
Trinity College residents, Mary in Janet
Clarke Hall. Capt. Levinson finished his
course last year, and Mary will be Dr.
Bennett in two years’ time.
Married with Nuptial Mass on Satur-
day at St. James’s, Gardenvale, was
Major Bernard Callanan. Friends had to
pop into their glad rags at an early hour,
as the wedding took place at half-past
eight in the morning. Bride, Naomi Cul-
linan, is a lieutenant in the A.W.A.S., but
gave service uniform a miss for the happy
occasion and walked up the aisle in a
picturesque medieval gown of figured
satin.
Later in the day newly-finished New-
man College chapel was the scene of the
wedding of Dr. John Dillmgs and Dr
Evelyn Thomas, both recent medical
graduates, John in the 1941 list and Lyn
in 1942. The bridegroom spent his Uni.
years in Newman College.
One of Melbourne’s happiest flower-
lovers is Violet Mclnnes, widow of the
portrait-painter and herself a fine painter
of flowers Those who meet her at one
of the small parties which even now
enliven lives of war workers are sure to
bear her discussing flower culture and
giving of her store of lore on the subject
to friends. Her garden at Fairy Hills
is always a restful spot, and in pre-war
days, on evenings when there was a moon,
she and her late husband used to enter-
tain groups of artistic acquaintances in it.


' ' /
02 ¥
Australia's mechanised cavalry and
their snappy Bren gun carriers form
a most mobile and effective fighting
unit who have won glory for them-
selves and for Australia throughout the
Middle East. Not only in the mountings
for the gun, but in important parts of the
armament and equipment of these carriers
CRMCO sheets are used
m
■ - ■
■vJ;
'' -vl
- - J
magSm
i
ni
. *
■i
m
I ■
COMMONWEALTH ROLLING MILLS
PROPRIETARY LIMITED
THE ARMCO-LYSAGHT ORGAN I SATI 0N - MANUFACTURERS OF STEEL SHEETS
C. 9
JWIGGET
mm
* RIGHT
HIGH!
for appearance-dries so evenly I
-won't rub off.
RIGHT
for economy - the bFg Nugget
bottle and tube are BIG VALUE
Guaranteed pure—makes the shoes fast longer
JSuL’iwbTwim
m
f » 9
New Invention Controls
RUPTURE
No Springs—No Cushions
This latest invention by Dr. L. Barrere brings
to rupture sufferers an entirely new method of
control. It is the result of 40 years’ practice
and improvements, and has been proved com-
pletely successful by all who have tried it.
The NEO-BARRERE acts like the hand when
placed flat upon the orifice. You will at once,
without effort and in all movements, hold the
intestine in its cavity.
Write to-day for FREE LITERATURE.
BARRERE DISTRIBUTION CO.
(Dept. 2B), 243 ELIZABETH ST., SYDXEW
SMOKE-OH!
“Canberra V.D.C. to fight bushfires.”
Many would prefer to see some of the
politicians go to blazes.
*F .4* *F
Rama V, or King Chulalongkorn of Siam,
who died in 1919, had 3000 wives and 370
children —134 sons and 236 daughters.”
— “World’s News.”
You could almost say his faith in mar-
riage was childlike.
4* 4* 4" 4>
Wonder if Hitler will live to be able
to write Mein De-Kampf.
“A fortune in less than a year.” — Advt.
Truck-driving for the Allied Works
Council?
►T, »J. .f.
“A Sydney suburban Court decided that a
woman who admitted having spanked a boy
who chalked the footpath in front of her house
was justified.”
That should warn him not to cross her
path again.
•I* *l* •j*
“My husband took me to a place to board;
the food and accommodation were good, but
the place wasn’t.” —Divorce report.
“Pencil King Fancier of Lovely Ladies.”
—“Daily Mirror."
No doubt it was the indelible impres-
sion he created that drew them to him
and led them astray.
“Could you tell me of a simple, reliable and
inexpensive method of removing cowsfeet that
are making my face unsightly.”
—Correspondent in woman’s paper.
Yes, dear. Just say “shoo!”
The Panacea.
“Charged with drunkenness, a bagman said
that he was working ‘up the line’ and the ticks
were bad. So he took a few drinks to combat
the tick virus.”— “Daily Mirror.”
When ticks, as insects often will,
Invite themselves to dine their fill
Upon your private haemoglobin.
You take, to mitigate their probing,
A nip more stimulating still.
For, ever since some careless nark
Admitted vermin to the Ark,
A dram has cured the bite of all
The beasts that fly or swim or crawl,
Excluding, possibly, the shark.
But, though it soothes the victim’s plight
And renders his affliction light,
The dose, it cannot be denied,
Is best repeatedly applied
About an hour before the bite.
P. M. L.
Cameo from Canberra.
“Besides signing her marriage lines in the
vestry, a future bride must fill in a man-power
form.” — “Daily Telegraph.’’
The Second Sub-Deputy Assistant Con-
troller of Man-power was in a quandary.
The order had come from Up Top for
some new man-power forms. The Min-
ister, a man of eccentric hobbies, was
a few short of the ten thousand in his
collection of these interesting items.
The S.S.D.A.C.M. felt the need of ad-
vice. He reached for the bell. There
seemed to be no sign of the bell-push.
He hunted peevishly on his littered desk,
and finally lifted a pile of UGH/81132/42
forms and found the bell-push under-
neath. A ringing noise, which he had
up till now taken for the singing in his
ears caused by intense thought, suddenly
stopped. The office boy looked in the
door, an expression of concern on his
freckled face.
“Anythin’ wrong, Boss?”
“Where is Miss Jones?”
“Out at lunch, Boss.”
“When will she be back?”
“Dunno. She went out to lunch on
Tuesday at 10 o’clock, and I ain’t seen
her since.”
“Well, you’ll do. I want some new
man-power forms. New classes, new
blood. You understand?”
There was a faint grating noise. It
was the office boy thinking.
“How about old-age pensioners?” he
said at last.
“No good. I’ve got them. Also
cripples, deaf mutes and chronic alco-
holics. And brides,” he added as the
office boy began to grate again.
“Taxi-drivers?”
“Don’t be flippant.”
“I got it, Boss”
Supplies of Form NBG/00001/43,
complete with space for thumb-print,
were delivered to all maternity hospitals
three weeks later.
PLUM.
Good food and such are right enough,
But in this case the point was
That, though the roast was never tough.
Apparently the joint was.
BRIAN BUREAU.
Life Support.
“When a man marries he takes a pledge to
be a useful citizen.”— “Sun.'”
The ex-drunk wobbles off the edge —
No penalty to reap; it
Is diff’rent with this kind of pledge:
A man has got to keep it.
HAMER.
Where Is Hitler?
From the correspondent of the Birds-
ville “Oboe” on the German frontier:
“It is learned on the authority of a high
neutral official whose name cannot be
disclosed that Hitler, disguised as a bil-
liard-marker’s laborer, has fled to Wiirt-
temberg until the German people’s anger
over the Stalingrad disaster has sub-
sided.
“The Fiihrer is suffering from hives,
dropsy with intermitent brainstorms,
a blood pressure of 284 and warts
on the spinal cord. His personal
physician, Dr. Kwackke, has received
permission from Himmler to order a diet
of chopped mangelwurzel roots, monkey
nuts and chamois milk.”
From the foreign editor of the Stock-
holm “Nyhyter Dagbladet”: “Loose talk
about Hitler fleeing from his own people
has no basis in fact. The real truth,
according to circles close to Reichmarshal
Goring, is that the German leader came
back from his deep dugout behind the
Eastern front to attend a performance of
‘Gotterdammerung,’ an opera of which he
is inordinately fond. -At the end of the
second act he burst into tears, chewed
seventeen tassels off the curtain in his
box and, telling Goebbels to see that pro-
gressive royalties on Mein Kampf were
sent to a South American banking house,
left immediately for the Hartz 'Moun-
tains so that he could absorb spiritual
strength and ask for intuitive guidance
from Thor.”
From the Gass Newsagency: “It is
learned reliably that Hitler is seeking ab-
straction from the mounting difficulties
both at home and abroad in an orgy of
wild living. He has given up the blonde
strip-tease dancer Mitzi Bullockzipps,
whose body is believed to have been
found in the Spree with a house-brick
tied around the neck, and is now conduct-
ing an affair with Wilhelmina Wopss,
whose sister he murdered because she
didn’t think he was as great a painter
and architect as Michelangelo. Hitler is
occupying a big suite at the Hotel Adlon,
and the reason he has not been recog-
nised is that the dissipated life he is
leading—he is now a horehound-beer and
Vichy-water fiend—has almost com-
pletely changed his facial appearance.
He has four chins, his nose has spread
out and turned up, his ears are perma-
nently bloodshot, and no sign can now be
seen of his once-prominent Adam’s apple.
This latter fact suggests serious throat
trouble.”
From the Berne correspondent of the
Finchtown “Howler,” quoting an An-
kara message which was picked up from
Vichy Radio; “A German businessman
who has just escaped across a neutral
border and whose bona fides cannot be
questioned says that, during a stormy
meeting between Hitler and Mussolini
on the Brenner last November, lunch
was served on the armored train. Dur-
ing the meal Hitler began frothing at the
mouth, and in a fit of pique he grabbed
a long length of spaghetti and deliber-
ately strangled himself. One of his
doubles was substituted, but on return-
ing to Berlin suspicion was aroused
among the public when the bogus Fiihrer
was seen in Dumpkoff’s famous restau-
rant on the Beerplatz tearing into a
porterhouse steak. Also, the bags under
his eyes weren’t of the usual shade of
puce. The substitute Hitler was whisked
away by the Nazi hierarchy to Berchtes-
gaden, where he remains in close con-
finement, refusing to see anyone until
the make-up men are perfectly satisfied.”
Bo.


THE OTHER FELLOW'S MIND
Cruelty to Animals
While the more drastic penalties for
offences against the Prevention of Cruelty
to Animals Act now planned by the N.
S. Wales Chief Secretary are long over-
due, they will, after all, meet the trouble
only in part.
What is really needed is education, in
the schools and on the films, on the
treatment and suffering of animals. Pub-
lic standards of conduct in regard to ani-
mals are anything but sufficiently defined.
To date the Education Department has
introduced no thorough instruction on
animal care and treatment in its curricu-
lum. How many children who own a
dog are possessed of even one per cent,
of knowledge as to what’s good for it in
food, training, exercise or medicine? Yet
if one lesson per month were given in
such matters, a new standard would
gradually evolve by which each child
would gain commendation or ostracism
for his treatment of animals and a kinder
and finer civilisation would result.
Films showing the sufferings of ani-
mals and the greater or lesser degrees
to which they suffer as compared with
humans would help awaken the public
on a matter on which it is now sleep-
ing too soundly. We’re past the stage
when one Kindness-to-Animals Week per
year is enough.—C. H. (N.S.W.).
Marx, Lenin and Stalin
At a meeting held at a Melbourne
theatre to commemorate the nineteenth
anniversary of the death of Lenin an
appeal was made for subscriptions to a
fund to establish a Lenin Memorial
School for the coaching of Communist
cadres as organisers for the movement
and to promulgate the Marxist-Lenin
philosophy. The collection was a record
for any Communist gathering in Aus-
tralia, so there are evidently plenty of
people who regard the system prevailing
in Russia as the bright hope for the
future because the Russians happen to
be winning battles against the Germans.
What we see in Russia is centralised
control carried further than anywhere
else, except perhaps in Germany. This
may account for the comparative success
of their resistance to the German in-
vasion (though there are other obvious
factors), but there is another aspect that
has to be taken into consideration.
After the break-up of the Holy Roman
Empire, which was centralised like the
Russian, there was a mighty uprush of
scientific discovery. Under the Empire
there was only one authority. After its
break-up there were hundreds. In the
chaos of conflicting authorities indivi-
duals had more opportunity to go on
with unconventional inquiries because if
one baron or bishop tried to suppress
them they could go and shelter under
another.
Under the contralised system that the
Communists envisage, why wouldn’t it
again be more difficult for new thought
to function? It was in England, not in
that Marx was able to investigate
the capitalist system, and it was in the
British Museum that he found most of
the material for his thesis. When Trotsky
disagreed with Stalin he was driven out
of Russia and most of his followers were
liquidated. Trotsky believed in a world
revolution, which was also Marx’s notion.
So if Marx reappeared in Russia it is
to be presumed that he would also be
liquidated. And he is the acknowledged
father of the Russian Revolution. —L. L.
(Vic.).
Funds for the Commos
On January 25 at Brisbane City Hall
I attended a meeting of the Communist
party, ostensibly held to expound Com-
munist policy.
The high spot in the evening’s enter-
tainment was a collection of funds,
accompanied by the raucous bawling of
a seemingly expert barracker.
One does not usually associate men
of wealth with the Communist party, so
an appeal for donations of £5O (one was
forthcoming) was rather a shock.
The appeal was continued for tenners
and fivers, and the number handed
in roused the speculative interest of the
more cynical. In fact, the insistent
demands for notes of these denomina-
tions was very suggestive. Singles and
halves were next on the list, and the sud-
The contributor placed first is paid
per line; all others 2Jd. per lino.
den flooding of the hall with these notes
caused consternation amongst my friends.
Hard cash was not the only contribu-
tion solicited. lOUs seemed to have the
same capital value in that society. It
all seems very strange to me. —M. J. D.
(Q-).
“Jacks”
I’m backing up “Emmer Emmer” (B.
20/1/’43) somewhat on the subject of
the Jacks. The supposed “hated Jack”
on Hell Fire Corner, Ypres, was not a
Provost Corps bloke, but a simple mili-
tary policeman told off for that duty.
Quite a lot of difference.
The London Jacks had a rotten name
in that city, so much so that the “Red
Caps,” Tommy M.Ps., used to give our
chaps warning if any of them were about.
Warwick Square, their headquarters, was
notorious.
I met chaps in No. 1 camp, Perham
Downs, who refused to carry on any
further and were being returned to Aus-
tralia as undesirables because of the
treatment meted out to them at Provost
Corps Headquarters. Their crime was
not A.W.L., but merely drunk. They
told Colonel Knox, O.C. Camp, the facts,
and he admitted up to that time their
record was good.
Admittedly the M.P. is necessary,
but the “Provost Corps” of the 1914-18
breed was not. Did you ever hear
of them having a reunion? I’ll say
“Would it upset the transport system if I went to St. Kilda?"
some of them had guts and had been
in the trenches and were good soldiers,
but plenty never saw a fight. And they
all seemed to have a grouch against the
Digger.
Thank the Lord the present-day Pro-
vost Corps is trained differently and
apparently has a better understanding of
soldiers.—T. H. Reynolds (Q.).
A Post-war Programme
Now that prospects of peace look
brighter, post-war reconstruction should
be considered. I make a few sugges-
tions :
(1) A Home Defence Army of 100,000
men.
(2) Abolition of State Parliaments.
(3) One Arbitration Court.
(4) Price-fixing and limitation of com-
pany profits to 6 per cent.
(5) Reduction of tariffs.
(6) A national home-building scheme.
As to (3) conflicting arbitration laws
cause endless expense and trouble in
business. Another matter: wages being
based on income sufficient to support a
man, his wife and two children, there
are half a million single men in employ-
ment who get paid for a wife and two
children. The pay for wife and children
should be abolished ; industry could bet-
ter afford to pay £2 per week to the wife
of each married worker —the children
are already provided for under Child En-
dowment.
As to (4), price-fixing has been justi-
fied. It has prevented the cost of living
from soaring. Limitation of profits to
6 p.c. on all companies of over £15,000
capital will help to stop profiteering and
monopolies; one tobacco co. paid a divi-
dend of 45 p.c. last year.
As to (6), it is estimated that 60,0UU
houses for workers will be required when
the war ceases ; this should be taken oyer
as a national matter to stop exploitation
by speculators. No house should be built
on a block smaller than 60ft. frontage
and 200 ft. deep ; this will stop slums.—
F. C. Overheu (W.A.).
Man-power Exemptions
“Dig-’em-out” (B. 13/l/’43) rejects my
figures as fanciful and says my asser-
tions do not click with actual Man-power
procedure. If he re-reads my letter he
will see that, to further my argument
for a change in the present procedure, 1
quoted actual figures in my own district
and not problematic figures from other
areas. ' „
I was present at the call-up m ques-
tion in an official— though honorary-
capacity. Throughout the proceed-
ings I sat within one yard of the Man-
power officer, and every man’s papers
came to me from that officer, so that
I neither quoted hearsay nor indulged
in flights of fancy when 1 said that only
three out of 78 men had not excuses to
offer. Not one of those men was asked
to produce concrete evidence, and none
has been asked to make a statement be-
fore a J.P. In my former letter I said
two men had been called up, but they
are still with us, their call-up having
been cancelled.
My district is an agricultural one, but
includes a popular tourist resort. It is
quite as patriotic as other places, for its
percentage of voluntary enlistments is
somewhat higher thai that for Austra-
lia. Of the men exempted many are
now making money out of tourists while
their acre or two of crop which they
are supposed to be growing for the war
effort is being smothered with weeds.
Others are working in shops and stores,
while yet others are allegedly supporting
mothers whose husbands are as fit to
support them now as ever they were.
A change is badly needed and “Dig-
’em-out” and his fellow-officers should
live up to his pen-name. —F. Edup (Vic.).
War-damage Funds
Having recently received an account
for 1943 for war-damage insurance on
my few sticks of furniture I have been
wondering just what the Government in-
tends to do with the war-damage funds
after the war if, as is quite possible,
there is a surplus of several million
pounds after paying all claims and ex-
penses.
Probably the post-war reconstruction
planners have something in mind for
such funds; I hope so, for it would be
a pity if the whole lot vanished into
consolidated revenue.
The best I can suggest is that the
balance of the insurance fund, if any,
be earmarked for post-war building and
that loans be made available at a low
rate of interest, preference being given
to persons who insured their property
under the war-damage scheme during
the war. If some such plan were de-
vised, it might encourage the voluntary
insurance of household and other pro-
perty, which has been slackening off.-
Wusslean (Vic.).
Soft-drink Sales
The situation lately created in Brisbane
in connection with soft-drink sales would
be amusing but for the fact that the
kiddies are suffering. This has been
brought about by the ridiculous barter
system of “You must have an empty to
get a full bottle.” The logical outcome
has been that the majority are hoarding
empties, and the retailer who can’t get
supplies because he can’t produce empties
sees his stock dwindling each day.
The position became acute at the
Christmas and New Year period when the
bottle-hoarders tried to realise and found
the retailers had no stocks. An appeal
to those holding bottles might help.—
Bottle-oh (Q.).
“Less Nonsense”
Lift your embargo on reprints for once
and find space for these spirited lines:
Let’s have less nonsense from the Friends of
Joe;
We laud, we love him, but the nonsense —no.
In 1940, when we bore the brunt,
We could have done, boys, with a Second Front.
A continent went down a cataract,
But Russia did not think it right to act.
Not ready? No. And who shall call her
wrong?
Far better not to strike till you are strong.
Better, perhaps, though this was not our fate,
To make new treaties with the man you hate.
Alas, these shy manoeuvres had to end
When Hitler leaped upon his largest friend
(And if he’d not, I wonder, by the way,
If Russia would be in the war today).
But who rushed out to aid the giant then —
■A giant rich in corn, and oil, and men,
Long, long prepared, and having, so they say,
The most enlightened ruler of the day?
This liny island, antiquated, tired,
Effete, capitalist and uninspired!
This tiny island, wounded in the war
Through taking tyrants on two years before!
This tiny isle of muddles and mistakes,
Having a Front on every wave that breaks!
We might have said “our shipping’s on the
stretch;
You shall have all the tanks that you can
fetch”;
But this is not the way we fight this war:
We give them tanks —and take them to the door.
And now we will not hear from anyone
It’s not for us to show we hate the Hun.
It docs not profit much to sing this tune,
But those who “prod” cannot be quite immune;
And those who itch to conquer and to kill
Should waste less breath on tubs on Tower Hill.
Honor the Kremlin, boys, but now and then
Admit some sign of grace at No. 10.
They were written by A. P. Herbert, of
“Punch,” and are having a great vogue
in Britain. —H. A. S. (G. 8.).
Wool Production
Though agreeing generally with A.
Woolly (B. 13/1 /’43) in his argument
against a fixed price for wool after this
war, he uses sheep numbers when it
should be wool production as an argu-
ment.
The figures quoted here are by no
means up to date, approximately 1924-
25 ; but they will serve tny purpose. It
should be kept in mind that the average
production per sheep in Australia is still
increasing and therefore the figures
shown here will be still further improved
upon: —
Wool
- Production
Country. No. of Sheep. in Pounds.
Australia .. .. 83,000,000 672,000,000
Africa .. .. 32,000,000 175,000,000
France .. .. 10,000,000 43,000,000
United Kingdom .. 26,000,000 109,000,000
It can be seen from this that Australian
production is approximately 81b. nor
sheep. The only other country
approach that is Germany, at someth;
over 61b. per sheep. Europe in 1925,
eluding European Russia and the Uni :
Kingdom, had 190,000,000 sheep, fo
wool production of 622,000,0001 b. A
tralian production in the correspond ,
year was 672,0000,0001 b., largely ol
quality that few countries anywhere t
in the world can produce.— Julia Cre
(N.Q.).
Compulsory Saving for the Young
Even if compulsory saving for in-
duration is not introduced for adults U
should surely be applied to those und'
21. Many youths and young worn n
working in factories are now getting tw
as much as was paid to their kind befc
the war. Often, too, through pareiv
being in better financial circumstanc
they are required to contribute but a
minor portion of income to the family
exchequer. .
Some thrifty souls may open banking
accounts, but few young people can be
trusted to show restraint in expenditure
when there seems no necessity for it.
Extravagant habits contracted in the
formative teens will be difficult to aban-
don later. Not for nothing do the wise
amongst the wealthy limit their adolescent
children’s allowances.
Compulsory saving is applied to
Australia’s fighting men, many of whom
are sober folk in the prime of life with
the sense not to squander their earnings.
Why should youngsters in civilian em-
ployment be exempt from the obligation ?
—Tom (N.S.W.).


df
*
'
is*
vn
Hi
98
ill
. :
d
f
MS
©
m a
ALMOST every Defence Project undertaken in Australia has many
parts of intricate design and shape, which would occupy many
thousands of valuable machine and man hours if they had to be
machined from the solid bar. Fortunately this has not been necessary,
for we have proved beyond any doubt that Australia can produce
Drop Forgings which in accuracy and finish will compare with the
world’s best.
Drop Forging, which is a development of the blacksmith’s art,
enables intricate parts to be shaped and formed from almost any metal.
Drop Forgings to-day play a very important part in Australia’s
Defence Programme; they save many thousands, even millions, of
machine hours in the manufacture of Aeroplanes, Guns, Tanks, Ships,
and in doing so hasten the completion of such projects and the supply
of arms for the Fighting Forces.
In addition to time in machining, Drop Forgings save metal; there-
fore they materially assist to relieve the load on Australia’s heavy
industries, on the Steel Mills and on the Brass and Aluminium
Manufacturers.
Drop Forgings also have other advantages in uniformity and extra
strength, and that is why Drop Forgings are so widely used in
Australia’s Defence Programme. We have no doubt that Drop
Forgings will be able to make a substantial contribution to the
post-war industrial life of our country.
*
a
m
m
1
1
/ ~'n
df
dfdfd
AND
LTD.
INCO
OR
andria. N.S.W.
en Street,
ap e I
and
“ DROP
, n.j.w. itia 11 91 (7 lines).
Queensbury Streets North
FORGING CO.
ill
FORGE DIVISION
PTY. LIMITED
.
Parramatta Road. Lldeombe. N.S.W. UX 7473 (7 lines)
Melbourne. Victoria. ’Phone F36T6 (3 lines^
