

GRAPE VINEGAR
The Bulletin
i<The Bulletin, VoL 64,—N0. 3331
Wednesday, December 15, 1943
Price 6cL
Registered at the Genera! Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W.. Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaoer.
Seppelts
CONWAY CASTLE.
r* ON WAY CASTLE, in North Wales, was built in 1294 by
Edward I, who wanted a stronghold from which to hold the
Welsh in check. It was here that he received from Adam de
Francton the head of Llewelyn, Prince of Wales, severed from his
body at the close of the fight near Pont Orewyn. In 1294 the
Welshmen so closely besieged the castle that at last but one flagon
°f wine remained of all the royal stores. Edward refused to fare
better than his soldiery, and, pouring the wine into a barrel ol
writer, gave every man of the garrison his share of the much-
diluted luxury. In 1832, the castle was visited by the Princess
Victoria and the Duchess of Kent, who found many traces of the
rich decoration of Queen Eleanor’s state bedchamber. In the
window place of this room is a raised dais, upon which it was
Queen Eleanor’s habit to hold her levee. When she fust rose in
the morning, the ladies of the Court assembled there while her
tirewomen braided and perfumed the long tresses which were the
most striking adornment of her Spanish beauty.
Conway Castle disputes with Carnarvon and Beaumaris the first
P |a “ the picturesque ruins of Wales The restorations have,
on the whole been wel earned out. The fine proport.ons o the
banqueting hall—it is 130 feet long and 32 feet wide—can only be
traced by the position of the fireplaces, both ceiling and floor
having been destroyed. Of the turrets which surmounted the eight
towers five remain standing, and the bridge of approach lends a
peculiar grandeur to the distant view of the castle. In the great
Civil War Conway was long held for the King, first by Archbishop
Williams and afterwards by Prince Rupert, but was at last taken
by the Parliamentarians. The walls are from 12 feet to 15 feet
in thickness.


V5u»
This Book FREE to YOU!
STOTTS CORRESPONDENCE COLLEGE.
JOO Russell Street. Melbourne.
CUT HERE AND MAIL
pirate tend, without obligation, your New Free
Booklet explaining how to Write jor Profit, a*
tdvertited •» Sydney “Bulletin."
Sly Name
Sly Addrert
g.B. 143 AGE
The Red Page
HARE OUT OF IRELAND.
Whatever may be the political rights
and wrongs of the case there’s one un-
answerable literary argument against the
use of the Gaelic tongue in Ireland: the
Irish write such beautiful English.
There was plenty of good tradesmen in
the town, men who could make barrels,
and bootmakers, and carpenters and joiners
who made chairs, and there was an anchor-
smith and it was a long time since he made
an anchor. *
But still if any ship sailing the wide sea
beyond the Mountain Island at the river
mouth had his anchor bitten off by that
Great Leviathan, and her captain knew
where he was, he could have come up to
the town and, while his ship lay at the
quay, have a new anchor made to his ship’s
requirements.
He could sit in the smith’s shanty and
see the anchor grow before his stupid eyes,
under the smith’s hammer, and it was he
who could swing a sled good and lusty,
and before the captain had chewpd over his
whole bag of rags there would be a beauti-
ful new anchor. As fresh and new to
work, and lively working as a ship newly
launched. And the man who weeps when
he sees a ship, her big chains rumbling and
her grease slithering, and the heavy lumps
of timber rattling away from her, as she
enters the water, is a dangerous man. But
a horrible man is the man who at such a
time does not have the longing on him
for tears.
This is from a book by Jack 8.. Yeats,
the poet’s brother: Ah Well (Routledge;
Moore’s Bookshop). What it’s all about
the devil only knows. Described by its
author as “a romance in perpetuity”—
whatever that may mean—it’s one of
those freak books that come from no-
where and go nowhere, but which, so
fine is the writing, are as pleasant to read
as the babble of a stream is to listen to
on a sunny day.
Jack Yeats has probably been reading
Synge, Gogarty, Gertrude Stein and
James Joyce.
The Mayor was not a heavy drinking man,
two or three horns at a time sufficed him,
and he never drank facetiously. He took
just what he wished, for he had no fear
about alcohol’s effect on his health for the
length of his life, and the appearance of his
death had been revealed to him in a dream.
He looked down on the face of his corpse,
and it was of a clean, smooth, mild beauty,
as of a lake after a swift lake-storm had
swept over it. He saw that certainly it was
not the face of a man slain by alcohol. So
why should he tease himself. The great
thing is to know, everyone, well nearly
everyone, says that.
The last sentence is, of course, pure
Stein. So, too, perhaps, is the sentence:
“This little dog had no initials.” Ger-
trude is not a good influence.
Her example, and Joyce’s, are prob-
ably Jack Yeats’s justification for writing
a book that, except in the vague way of
a dream, doesn’t make sense. Insofar as
it is about anything at all, Ah Well is a
picture of the life of an Irish town, the
river and the port, the landscape, the
Mayor and other worthies. The present
commentator can see no advantage what-
ever in being mysterious on such a
simple theme. A straightforward, realis-
tic picture of a real town would be much
more interesting and probably a much
more difficult achievement. One feels
that Jack Yeats wished to write some-
thing like Clochemerle or a masculine
Cranford, a picture of the eternal vil-
lage ; and he has used the contemporary
fashion of obscurantist experiment as a
means of evading the labor of genuine
creation.
"Unless it’s a case of similarity of
temperament Gogarty, too, has been an
influence, on the whole harmful. The
“climate” of Ah Wqll, a gently
Rabelaisian capriciousness, is exactly the
climate of Gogarty’s wantonings with
literature. “Fun was before sense,” Jack
Yeats says. The objection here is not to
the fun —it is delightful—but to the total
absence of sense. “Sense came after
fun” might be a better principle fo>- a
civilised literature. Evasive, merry,
meaningless little books have their place,
no doubt; a change of literary diet is
always welcome; but the place is on the
margin.
But the richness of the prose style
which Jack Yeats has learned from
Synge, or which, being Irish, he writes
as naturally and inevitably as Synge did,
atones for the faults. There’s not quite
nothing in the book when everywhere
there is writing such as;
Whatever cloudy blur there was during
the day, on nine evenings out of ten the
sun would go down strong and bright, and
the last old townsman by the rail by the
riverside would get it glinted into his old
eye.
They neighed after the things they saw
in the shop windows just when they didn’t
have any money.
Fun to him, as to most of the men of the
town, and all the women, was just a faint
rattle-drum accompaniment to the rolling
up and rolling down of the dark spectacle
of being alive; for to all the grown people
of the town, after they had had their morn-
ing’s milk, the sky was wrapped and rolled
in a blasting blue tragedy of night in day.
My old boy was always listening; though
his eyes were wandering, his ears were miss-
ing nothing. They were like what you
might call cornucopias in a receptive mood.
It flitters from me and leaves me only
the cold skeleton of my own sad rectangular
thoughts, and they hurt me when I move.
Madame, I said, I’ll ask you no ques-
tions for you have all the answers, and
every one would make me look like a
white hare in the moonlight on a snowy
night lost in my surroundings.
We weep together, we laugh together, we
die in one deep grave.
It is Irish prose at its best. And though
meaningless books, as a matter of prin-
ciple, are always bad, one can’t help
feeling a certain unprincipled pleasure in
spending an hour for once with an author
who is like a white hare in the moon-
light on a snowy night lost in his
surroundings.
Khaki and Green.
Neither Guadalcanal Diary, by Richard
Tregaskis, nor New Guinea Diary, by
George H. Johnston (both Angus and
Robertson publishings), has the authentic
diary flavor. The successive dates are
there, used as sub-headings to chop chap-
ters into convenient sections. Otherwise
the design is the design of Pepys, but the
voice is the voice of the newspaper scribe
catching an edition.
The true diarist rarely resembles a
young man in a hurry. He never
writes for immediate publication, and
very often does not write for publi-
cation at all. As well, though he has
sometimes to sit down and catch up a
week or so—as the top dog of them once
or twice had to do —he gives the impres-
sion of one actually writing day by day.
In both Johnston and Tregaskis news
value is the principal appeal, though
in his opening paragraph Tregaskis holds
out a promise of a possible prose quality
as well;
Sunday, July 26, 1942.
This morning, it being Sunday, there
were services on the port promenade.
Benches had been arranged on the deck,
facing a canvas backdrop on which a Red
Cross flag was pinned. Father Francis W.
Kelly, of Philadelphia, a genial smiling
fellow with a faculty for plain talk, gave
the sermon. It was his second for the day.
He had just finished the “first shift,” which
was for Catholics. This one was for
Protestants.
That quality promise hardly holds,
but at least the prose remains clear and
direct, even when, in the landing at
Guadalcanal, things begin happening so
fast that the Tregaskis typewriter has to
fly to keep up. The further promise of
the opening paragraph—of a close ob-
server capable of seeing the significantly
interesting and putting down what he sees
concisely and with humor —ishappily main-
tained. The diary pretence wears thinner
and thinner, but the setting, the fighting
and, above all, a most convincing figure
come straight to life in the reading. The
figure is the American Marine, ribald
and game and tough as they come. Extra-
ordinarily like the A.l.F.—of the last war,
at all events. Nobody has yet made the
new A.I.F. completely clear, done for
it what Masefield did for the Anzacs, or
what Tregaskis here does for the Marines.
Johnston does not do it. It is not his
apparent purpose. His book is a general
coverage of the New Guinea campaign
to date. He uses exactly the same diary
method as Tregaskis, and, if anything,
resembles a true diarist even less.
Johnston's book is sweeping. It is an
informative journalistic account, illus-
trated with good photos. But it skims
the surface of character, whereas the
Tregaskis sense of character is so acute
that his book is next door to creative.
Another of the current hooks set up
in the dripping undergrowth, with earlier
chapters of a gritty desert, wears Khaki
and Green as its title. It is the latest
of the Australian official war books, in
the tradition stemming away from the
A mac Book ; in quality of literary con-
tents not quite up to Active Service.
though fairly well, but in illustrations,
particularly the color reproductions of
paintings, a conclusive case for war
artists getting a rise.
Khaki and Green takes up the A.I.F.
story about where Active Service left off.
It covers Alamein, and so back and on
to New Guinea. A curiosity of Active
Service, compared to the A mac Book,
was the apparent seriousness of the new
Diggers, as presented. Just as curiously
Khaki and Green, with New Guinea and
all that thrown in, has quite a lot of the
lighter farce humor of the original fore-
runner of these publications. On the evi-
dence of Khaki and Green the new
Digger mood seems'to have lightened up
considerably since earlier in the war.
Maybe Active Service got the new
Digger a bit wrong.
The direct historical recording in
Active Service was keener than in this
later book. Yet this later book has
Alamein to record! It makes it prosaic,
and, whatever it was, it surely wasn’t
that.
Ruling out all such considerations as
much too fussy, Khaki and Green seems
just what it aims to be —an admirable
souvenir, pictorially splendid.
"Around the Army."
“G’day, Mudguts ; it’s time you were
up. Rise and shine!”
The utterer of this arresting bit of dia-
logue is a Digger sig. linesman plugging
in on a div. general’s line at about three
in the morning. He is something more
—spokesman for the whole Digger
race at large, and for one member of it
—S. W. Keough, author of Around the
Army and Other Nonsense (Dymocks) —
in particular.
Keough—identified on the title page as
“Bo” of The Bulletin —was also Bo of
the old Ist Div. Sigs. It is highly unlikely
that he ever connected his portable tele-
phone set with the div. general’s lines
and addressed that high personage as
“Mudguts,” but he must have often
aspired to address some high personage
exactly thus. It is a natural Digger aspi-
ration, compensating in the Digger breast
for inability, despite unquestionable quali-
fications, to rise to the position of being
himself thought of and generally spoken
of in that comradely fashion.
The army sections of “Bo’s” book as
a whole —a collection of his Bulletin
“Smoke-oh” pieces, illustrated by Ted
Scorfield —are an expression of suchlike
universal Digger aspiration. The “Mud-
gutses” themselves are quite as au fait
with that aspiration as any common or
garden Dig. There was one at the base
at Etaples, France, who used to hand
out sentences to Dig. delinquents with a
rider: “Twenty-eight days— and you!"
He caught, so to speak, the unexploded
aspiration and tossed it back.
“Bo” is really doing a like service—
expressing and enacting in print what
the great bulk of the common Dig. frater-
nity would often very much like to say
and do. He has one advantage over most
of both the select Digs, who do rise to
be “Mudgutses” and the common herd
who don’t—not many of them are as fully
qualified to add M.A.S. after their
names: Master of the Australian Slan-
guage. “Bo” pictures an interpreter (“in-
terrupter”) listening to this bit of dia-
logue between a sig. officer and mess
secretary:
“What sort of gay-and-frisky do you
call this, Arthur? I’ve fasted better stuff
in a billabong full of dead wallaroos.”
- “Don’t be Uncle Willie!” comes back
the m.s. “That’s the dinkum neckjuice
straight from north o’ the Tweed. I had
to cough up over half a nicker a bottle
for it at the ruddy-dub. The trouble is
you're getting too flash after your burl
in the bright lights. Next you’ll be wanting
your dingbat to warm your Joe Rocks
before you pull ’em on. Isn’t that right,
Alphonse?”
Which, not unnaturally, completely
stonkers Alphonse.
“Bo’s” humor is largely the humor of
exaggeration, but there is a solid basis
of reality. The “Mudguts” episode may
never have happened, but it would be
a strange sort of Dig. who would not
believe that it did and relish the belief.
It is a sublimation of any Dig.’s wishful
thinking. Similarly, “Bo” on that
maligned being the bab:
It is axiomatic that a bob should cither
have had absolutely no experience of cook-
ing or experience confined to hashhouses
where, instead of customers getting
serviettes, they wipe their greasy hands on
the establishment’s large woolly dog,
which is washed every Wednesday, and
mulligatawny soup is on the menu every
Thursday.
Of course, a dire libel on a useful race,
even to those members of it who, as “Bo’
himself probably recalls, graduated en-
tirely by being sentenced to be babs in
punishment for having been ack willie.
It is none the less an expression of com-
mon Digger belief, though the current
practice of sending prospective babs to
schools and then giving them • stoves to
cook in may render it obsolete in time.
Pending that time, “Bo's” exaggerations
stand on their bases of reality, either ol
common Dig. belief, wishful thinking or
actuality. One other instance—the rub-
bish-burying fatigue party, having kidded
the corp. in charge to take a walk, gets
busy:- .
Soon the sounds of “I've got a cog
of John Dillons to say he em anU
“They’re Micksl” proclaim that the laligue
is in full swing. After that all the fatigue
party need do is to toss the rubbish in
among the nearest thick scrub.
According to some authorities such
things may have happened in the Old
A.1.F., where “Bo” had his experience,
but the New mob aren’t a bit like that
“Bo” would scorn such authorities.
“Square up,” he’d say. “Here, have a
pull at this other prop.” He’d insist that
you can knock a lot of fun out of being
in the army ; that there’d be something
wrong with the army —or the Dig.—if
that wasn’t so. Being a hearty expression
of that outlook, his Around the Army
will add to the fun around the army.
SUNDRY SHOWS.
“Craiser” goes to a rehearsal:
Listening to a brand-new piece of music like
Shostakovich's “Leningrad Symphony” at the
Town Hall, Melbourne, is one thing. , The
subject is intensely topical; to some people
it is politically important; and a first night is a
fashionable occasion. So in the atmosphere of
excitement and the applause, which beat any-
thing extracted from a Melbourne audience
even by Sir Thomas Beecham, there may have
been emotional ingredients which had nothing
to do with the music. Listening in the cold,
pseudo-Gothic interior of Wesley Hall in Swan-
ston-street to the same piece being rehearsed
by Professor Heinze is another thing altogether.
The musicians—an army of nearly 100—are
alert and apprehensive. Some are even a little
shamefaced. There is one prolonged section
in the first movement during which the fiddles
look as if they were sawing wood to relieve
the fuel shortage and they are inclined to grin
at their own antics and would probably laugh
outright, as did the London Philharmonics when
they first played the overture to “Tannhauser,
if the conductor’s obvious intense belief in the
high quality of Shostq> inspiration didn’t pre-
vent them. Some of the players have to wait
40 minutes before they get a chance to strike
two notes, but the surprising thing is that their
attention doesn’t wander. Nor is the interest
lessened when the conductor hops from one
part of the immense opus to another, makes
them play the last movement first and then
jumps back to the second or has an amiable
argument with the flutes as to their interpreta-
tion of something that looks Hike shorthand
written on brown paper by a drunken blowfly
which has fallen into an inkwell and crawled
out backwards. To listen to a piece of music
under these conditions dispels the illusion that
the good conductor is one who endeavors to
impose his personality on the composer. Pro-
fessor Heinze seemed to be as soberly con-
cerned with reproducing the author s statement
as a painter is in copying an Old Master,
and his attitude towards his players was similar
to the attitude of a sculptor to his clay the
only difference being that the clay never tries
to mould the sculptor. The public performance
was voted one of the finest heard for many
years in Melbourne and the Russian’s opus in
the great’ tradition. If the verdict is correct,
it is a tribute to the professor’s devotion.
Incidentally, that Shostakovich should have
written the piece under the awful conditions
of a blitzed, burning and besieged city is a
standing answer to that numerous band ot
writers, poets and artists of all descriptions
who say they can’t be expected to do any-
thing worth while when there’s a war on.
“A.W.”: Joe Holloway’s Sketch Club,
Sydney, is having its fifth annual exhibi-
tion —nearly 200 pictures. There s still
a sprinkling of service men among the
habitues, and one of the best charcoal
portraits in the show, '‘Sam,” by Guy
Warren, represents an A.I.F. officer.
Some well-knowns use the club —Lance
Solomon, nowadays reaching out towards
the impressionistic style of the late J.
Muir Auld ; Garret Kingsley, most prom-
ising of the younger Australian portrait-
ists ; H. Neville Smith, whose water-
color “Tropical Fantasy” arrests the eye ;
Albert N. Clarke, and, of course, Jos.
Lee Holloway himself, who is painting
better than ever. Among women members
Elizabeth Martin shows some excellent
figure pieces and Marie Gardner spon-
sors some very competent water-colors.
An amateur who would shine anywhere
is Robert McKechnie—his “Bogey Hole”
is a very effective piece* of sea painting.
W. Roberts, who uses house paint, lac-
quers or anything that’s handy, has the
sort of color-sense not more than one
painter in each 10,000 is born with. He s
not very strong on drawing, but com-
position, balance and color never fail him.
The Society of Arts in Adelaide has a
pleasant show, mainly sea and landscape,
by Tasman Fehlberg. It is no great thing,
but it scores by contrast with the weird
Contemporary Art Show lately hung on
the same walls, which took itself very
seriously, even to instructing an incredu-
lous public by guide-lectures.
At the talkies:
A period piece of the lawless days of
Mid-West. “The Ox-Bow Incident” (Sydney
Civic) is a study of the reactions of three mno-
cent’ men before they arc hanged by a mon
on circumstantial evidence of murder and rust-
ling. The trio are a young family man who
casts about desperately to avert' his fate, *
stoical Mexican and an old man whose failing
mind can’t grasp the significance of his situa-
tion. Five minutes after the rough injustice
the “murdered” man turns up, and the reactions
of the lynchers go under the microscope;
It’s unrelieved slarkncss, and the action drags
while the human guinea-pigs do their facial
registerings.
laurel and Hardy, those pleasing hangoveis
from the Mack Sennctt pic-throwing era, are
at their best in “Jitterbugs” (Plaza), in whicn
they gallantly elect to save a beauteous wenen
from the clutches of go-getters and don’t do so
badly for themselves in the process. Their two-
man synthetic hand is a riot, with slapstic*
calling the tune.


'TRUTH IN ADVERTISING'
"THE SENIOR STORE"
ANTHONY HORDERNS'
120th Year of Service
J/p*
?
Fancy Art Silk Gloves.
In Beige, Navy, Black
or White. At Anthony
Horderns'. Price,
pair 5/11
3 Coupons
Grecian Cut Felt Slip-
per with leather soles
and small heels. In
Pink, Green, and Bur-
gundy. Full and half
sizes. At Anthony Hor-
derns'. Price, pr., 16/3
Sizes 2 to 3, 2 coupons.
Sizes from 3 cpns.
White Embroidered
Organdi Re vers, fin-
ished pleated frill of
plain organdi. At An-
thony Horderns'. 5/11
1 Coupon
Fully Fashioned Dull
Rayon Hose. First -
grade; service weight.
Panel heels. All sizes.
Summer tonings. At
Anthony Horderns'.
Price, pair 5/11
4 Coupons
"Holeproof” Fully
Fashioned Service
Weight Hose with-
panel heels and lisle
welt. Summer tonings.
All sizes. At Anthony
Horderns'. Price, 6/8
4 Coupons
6>. . SL,
& *
(j f
a
■ r-
V.
Af9
&w .■
r?
Wf",
u
w
if ~ r
VY!
m
S
ml,
Men's Neckties in the popular
Broadway style. Latest stripes
and fancy designs. At
Anthony Horderns'. Price,
each 4/6
1 Coupon
Men's "Pyramid" Handker-
chiefs. In plain White fine
quality Lawn. At Anthony
Horderns'. Price, each 1/6;
per half dozen 8/9
Handkerchiefs, half a
coupon each.
"Pyramid" Handkerchiefs for
Men with coloured border,
coloured all over, and fancy
White. At Anthony Hor-
derns'. Price, each, 2/-;
price, half dozen, 11/9
Handkerchiefs, half a
coupon each.
Men's Half Hose of All Wool,
Medium Weight Ribbed Cash-
mere. Self shades of Blue
Grey, Mid Grey and Navy.
Sizes 10 to Hi inches. At
Anthony Horderns'. Price, 4/3
4 Coupons
Men's Slippers made of NeVis
Calf with leather soles. At
Anthony Horderns'. All Sizes.
In Brown. Pair ... 13/11
In Black. Pair 13/6
5 Coupons
It’s patriotic and
fashionable to give
5 / - National
Saving Stamps.
4rxjf\scl&A*t m 5*'
FAMOUS LOW PRICES
'PHONE; M 2401 (DAY AND NIGHT)
POST TO BOX 2712 C, G.P.0., SYDNEY


The Relief of Tobruk
By “WILL.”
IT was cold. A night wind blew
and rain was falling on the dust
of Tobruk.
We were lying in our sangar.
Three of us; covered with
muddy blankets and Eyetie groundshcets,
trying to keep warm and dry.
We were initiated into the desert in
early March, 1941, but it was now Novem-
ber. We were weary, but’the thundering
roil ol the guns that had leapfrogged our
position made sleep impossible.
Inside the perimeter the almost fresh
garrison was hacking a corridor towards
El Duda. Outside, the Eighth Army was
checkmating death on the slopes of Sidi
Resegh. The whole area was alight with
flashes of gunfire. It roared to the
thunder of gunfire. To the scream and
crump of shells.
Instinctively we knew that we were
going into it again when our platoon
commandef slid down into our sangar.
“Bad luck, men. It’s on again,” he
said, and then went out again.
We cursed the rain, the cold and the
Huns as we crawled out into the flash-
stabbed night.
The flashes showed up our features,
but that was a trivial worry. We
buckled our “harness” and, when we
were prepared, crawled back into our
sangar and had a smoke.
Someone said at last we might be re-
lieved, bu| we didn’t answer.
We had' been here for a hundred years,
eating dust and drinking salt and petrol.
Seeing nothing but Stukas, tanks, good
cobbers going, rocks and dust and the
sea. Smelling nothing but that terrible
aniseed smell around the salient and, of
course, the bully-beef stew and sour rice.
Our past world must have died. We
didn't think of it, although Bill said “It's
me wife's birthday tomorrow.” And
when the light from the gun flashes shone
on his face 1 saw him staring vacantly at
the ground.
We could hear the lurching clank of
the trucks pulling up, so we piled out,
put our weapons, gear and tucker-box
aboard and then ourselves.
We sat bunched up and, with all the
platoon together, started to joke,
although we cursed a bit to let the colonel
know we were still flesh and blood. The
only reply we received was three cases of
sticky bombs in case we ran into tanks.
The trucks started and stopped a dozen
times. As we slowly bumped along we
primed the bombs until we all had one
or two in our hands ready.
We crossed the bridge built over the
tank ditch on the Bardia Road, where
long columns of prisoners were marching
in.
Herb, a last-war veteran, yelled out
savagely “You dirty ! How do you
like it now?” then spat in anger.
We didn’t say anything, but we com-
mented on the big guns we passed and
the new Eighth Army tanks ; at last we
would have proper equipment.
WE debussed near El Duda, and were
told to rest. The attack was off till
morning.
We didn’t care much, so we put out
pickets and lay down where we were and
went to sleep. I think I was last to go
to sleep, and I’ll always remember the
dark forms sleeping curled up on the
desert.
I’ll never forget our awakening either.
We awoke to the music of shells that
crashed right down on top of us. They
were mostly 105 mm. and an eight-inch
screamer that moaned all the way until
it rocked the earth with a deafening
explosion.
The ground was bare and flat, so we
just lay there watching the big guns
firing at us at 4000 yards range until a
runner signalled us to cross the ridge.
We could see the ridge covered with
shells bursting among the pitiful little
black dots that were H.Q. Coy,
I don’t know how we crossed the ridge.
The shells came too suddenly to go to
ground. And we would never have
reached the other side going down all
the time.
It seemed strange to see the earth
vomit black smoke, steel and rocks.
Several of us didn’t get across, but the
stretcher-bearers brought them in; and,
all considering, we were lucky.
We hugged that tiny ridge like a sweet-
heart, but still the enemy O-pips had
seen us crossing over and kept plastering
us with heavy fire. Four twenty-five-
pounder batteries were behind us doing
counter-battery fire, which helped to re-
lieve the situation, until the tanks started
throwing metal with that high-velocity
whiz.
About sixty enemy tanks broke
through the Essex Batt. line and charged
on to our ridge, where the remnants of a
battalion of our infantry tanks engaged
them. We had no cover, and I hate to
think of what would have happened if
they had gained another fifty yards.
We lay there till dusk, when the tanks
left off the fight, but then the ’planes
came over, dropping flares and bombs.
JIM, the ration sergeant, brought us
bread and jam and a dixie of tea. We
tore up the bread and drank the tea.
The tea! That was the main thing.
It was cold and salty, but we could have
drunk gallons just then. It made us feel
better. Some of us pulled our greatcoats
over our heads and had a smoke. We
always enjoyed this smoke ; after all, they
couldn’t throw much more metal at us.
Things seemed quiet for a while, but
then the guns started again. Tracers from
machine-guns and tanks were coloring
the darkness and plopping into the dust.
AH during the day the stretcher-bearers
had been ducking and diving, collecting
the wounded and taking them to an am-
bulance or placing them under a tank
for protection if the ambulances couldn't
make it.
I’ll never forget them.
A shell would crash on to the dust
where some section lay dispersed. We
would all watch for the signs. Yes, some-
one was hit. There go a couple of his
cobbers running to where the smoke is
clearing. In the distance two other figures
with a stretcher would be seen dashing
towards them heedless of the shells. All
day they were running and carrying. Over
a hundred had been hit in the battalion
so far, and the attack hadn’t started.
Still, we knew something was happen-
ing when the colonel began bawling out
for his company commanders.
A great soldier was the colonel. He
had been lying in the dust with us most
of the day, and when a New Zealand
colonel came to discuss the attack he
was asleep. One of the boys shook him.
“Hey, Colonel, wake up! There’s a
bloke here to see you.”
“Is th-at your colonel?” said the
astonished visitor, so neat in his uniform
by comparison with “The Bull’s” old bat-
tered hat and greatcoat.
He didn’t know “The Bull” as we did.
When “The Bull” started shouting we
knew something was going to happen.
The officers came, stood talking
for a while, then hurried back to
their companies.
“Prepare to move. Only fight-
ing equipment!” was being shouted
down along the ridge.
We were ready ; then someone said they
were coming—the Huns, I mean.
We didn’t know we had been sur-
rounded half the day; and just as well
we didn’t. We lined the ridge for de-
fence when the German infantry started
to attack.
It took only a minute to get set, but
then orders were changed, ahd we lined
behind the ridge to form up and counter-
attack with the bayonet.
By now of course it was nearly morn-
ing. We were lined up in threes; great-
coats bulging with Bren and sub-machine-
gun magazines; grenades and bandoliers
of small arms slung around our necks.
The men looked giants, and seemed to
have come back to life.
SOMETHING seemed to be knocking
my head.
I didn’t know where I was, but I
could smell the T.N.T. in my nostrils,
and I could faintly hear screams of pain,
as if they came from another world.
Something terrible had happened. I
knew that.
I felt that I wanted to walk or run,
but I didn’t know where I was. Then
they came clearer, and slowly it came
rushing to my mind: my eyes just stared
in horror, and I was used to horrible
sights.
. I don’t want to write on what I saw or
heard. I saw the doctor and the stretcher-
bearers at work. One had collapsed to
the earth, sobbing —done in. 1 could
see only three of my platoon standing.
A shell had struck our tight formation.
In the distance I could see the last of
the battalion going over the ridge, like
phantoms of some weird story ; slowly
disappearing, then everything springing
into action as they sped away, shouting
out terrifying noises and words.
The sun was rising. The wind still
blew fiercely. Trucks of the Eighth
Army were jolting into Tobruk.
“You are seeing history'.being made”
were the last words of our commander.
Prisoners from our attack were going
back.
As the sun rose higher it shone upon
a line of noble men who lay beneath
blankets, sleeping the sleep of peace,
sleeping for ever. . Tobruk had been re-
lieved. Maybe their souls were also re-
lieved.
“NO CONTACT WITH THE ENEMY"
From JOHN BRENNAN.
ay NE reconnoitred the entire area
\ A / as ordered. We landed at
\/\/ 0300 hours and re-embarked at
2000 hours. The patrol made
no contact with the enemy. There are
no enemy positions or installations in the
area, nor did we see any signs of pre-
vious occupation.”
The orders came in the late afternoon:
“ Company of the Marine
Raiders will be detached immediately and
will proceed to the beach. Each man
will carry rations for 24 hours and a
complete unit of fire. On arrival there
they will await further orders.”
The Raiders had been twenty-one days
in the line or in close reserve since their
initial landing on the Empress Augusta
Bay beachhead on Bougainville Island.
Shock troops, commandos, they had led
the assault on Puruata Island, inched the
Japs out of their pillboxes on Cape Toro-
kina, and fought their way up through the
jungle to Piva village and beyond. At
Piva they had forced the break-through
which stabilised the perimeter and gave
to the invasion its first real security.
Their clothing was wet and torn and
heavy with mud. The thin stubble of
boyish beards was on their faces. The
pride of veterans was in their swagger,
and it lightened the dull tiredness in their
eyes.
In twenty minutes they were ready,
jungle packs stowed away in heaps against
their return, the large pockets of their
spotted jungle suits bulging with grenades
and tinned cheese and chocolate ration.
There began the long trek back through
the jungle to the beach. It rained.
They marched in two columns, single
file, one on each side of the road. They
swore at the mud, at the rain, at the
drivers of the trucks which splashed them;
loudly and quite unjustifiably, they swore
at a higher command that left their one
unit to fight the entire war in the South
Pacific. With it all they were excited
again, and proud and happy that this
must be another job where Raiders were
needed.
It was already dark when they reached
the beach. Someone said that there would
be a hot meal for them, and they laughed
, and swore again and said “This one must
be tough. They must think we won’t
come back.” It was the first hot chow
they had had in the three weeks since the
original landing. They were given dry
cigarettes and chewing-gum and tins of
fruit juice. They joked, but the hot meal
helped to build up the tenseness, the
wonder and the half-fear —for even full
knowledge beforehand cannot bring that
real fear which comes when an action
starts.
The orders came. Japanese artillery
had been shelling the beachhead. It was
thought that their positions had been
located some miles down the coast south
of Cape Torokina. There were maps
and aerial photographs. The Raiders’ job
was to make a reconnaissance of the area
and if they found artillery positions to
clean them out. They would be taken
down the coast in small barges and landed
during the night. The barges would
return for them the following night. If
they ran into too large an enemy concen-
tration they were to retire along the beach,
and they had radio to summon the barges
if a withdrawal was necessary.
Company captain and platoon leaders
and the boat officers found a tiny
blacked-out tent just back of the beach
in which to discuss plans. The Raiders
lay sprawled on the wet sand along the
beach to snatch a few hours of sleep.
AT 0200 hours the boats came nosing
quietly into the beach. The men
were wailing, grouped in platoons.
Darker shadows in the darkness, they
filed quickly aboard. There was no talk-
ing now, only a few whispered orders.
The ramps came up, the boats pulled
back from the beach and turned south in
a wide V formation.
The men sat crouched along both sides
of the barges. Each man felt over his
weapons, touched at spare magazines or
at the pistol at his belt, felt that knife
and grenades were handy. The noise of
the motors seemed loud in spite of the
muffled exhausts. The phosphorescent
gleam of the water churned up by the
propellers was a brilliant light in the dark-
ness. Bougainville was large and black
and brooding over to the west.
It seemed a long time in coming, and
then too soon the whispered order “Stand
ready, we’re turning in to the beach.”
The noise of the motors seemed louder
yet. The thump of the boats on the
shelving sand \vas a thunderclap above
the sound of the surf. The steel ropes
holding the ramps whined and screamed
on their pulleys. The men filed out
quickly, quietly, swung to either side,
forming a thin dark line along the black
sand. They crouched down, rifles point-
ing forward, moving slowly towards the
thick black wall of the jungle. The boats
moved out and away.
Away to the north two flares burst,
flaming in the sky.
They flooded the whole scene with light
-*-the line of men strung along the sand,
the thick, scrubby undergrowth of jungle
a few yards ahead, the boats away out.
They brought fear, clutching at the
stomach of every man, coming like a cold
breath on his face, tightening his grip on
his rifle. They sent every man pitching
forward on the sand, his eyes straining
ahead at the jungle.
There were long moments —moments
while the flares hung burning—before the
realisation came that this was all co-
incidence. ,This perfection of timing
meant nothing. The flare* heralded an
attack on the beachhead to the north.
From there came the sound of bombs
bursting, the sharp explosions of anti-
aircraft fire. vSearchlights were wavering
in the sky; there were the quick bursts
of ack-ack above the flares.
The lights went out, and in the deeper
darkness that succeeded them the Raiders
moved towards the jungle, wriggled a few
yards in under the cover of the under-
brush and lay there, tense and alert, wait-
ing. Waiting, waiting for the dawn, start-
ing up at every rustle of movement across
the dead leaves.
With morning came the relief of ac-
tivity. The jungle opened up around
them. Each man dug himself a shallow
foxhole, scraping it out of the sand.
Patrols went out on either flank, sweep-
ing around through the jungle, combing
the area. There was deep, almost im-
penetrable, swamp fifty yards back from
the beach. They went out into it, moving
slowly and as quietly as possible. There
was visibility only a few yards ahead.
They went forward a few paces, stopped,
then pushed on again. They came back
to report “Nothing.”
The whole company moved on a few
hundred yards down the strip of solid
ground just back from the beach. It began
to rain again. From the high ground,
miles away across the ridge where the
Augusta Bay perimeter swung south and
west, there was the sound of heavy
Japanese mortar fire and in the distance
the dull roar of American artillery. Allied
spotter ’planes flew up and down the
coastline ; there was no seeing them for
the thick roof of green.
The company moved forward again.
It was noon, then mid-afternoon. There
was a narrow, disused native trail; it
went nowhere, then petered out. For the
rest there was nothing but sand and
swamp and jungle and the smell of the
jungle. *
They moved back to the holes they
had dug in the early morning. “The patrol
made no contact with the enemy.”
With the darkness their anxiety would
begin anew. They would be waiting for
the first sign from the boats that would
take them back, wondering if they would
come.


The Bulletin
Vol. 64—No. 3331.
Wednesday, December 15, 1943.
“HE’S TELLING US!”
"We examined all aspects of our problems, sometimes with brutal frankness.”— Official Turkish statement after the Cairo conversations.


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper
"Australia for the White Man "
Directors:
H. K. Prior
P. H. Prior
J. E. Webb
David Adams
HEAD OFFICE; 252 George Street, Sydney;
Box 252IBB; ■’Phone 87971.
Victoria: Newspaper House, 247-249 Collins
Street, Melbourne.
Queensland: 239 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
Westralia; 33 Barrack Street, Perth.
New Zealand: Nathan’s Buildings ippp.
G.P.0. ), Wellington.
London: 1 Hare Place, 47 Fleet Street,
London, E.C.4.
TALKS AT TEHRAN.
Knowing what was to be discussed at
Cairo and Tehran by the war leaders
and realising that their deliberations
would profoundly affect the destinies of
nations. General Smuts made a chal-
lenging survey of the post-war situation
in another address to the members at
Westminster. “Explosive stuff” was his
own comment on it, and explosive it
was.
“In Europe,” he said, “three of the
five Great Powers will have dis-
appeared.” Britain, of course, would
remain, and it would be a Britain with
“glory, honor and prestige such, perhaps,
as no nation ever enjoyed in history,”
but with “nothing left in the till; from
the material and economic point of view,
Britain will be a poor country.” For its
security in Europe, and for the security
of the Western European democracies,
it and they would need to consider “a
closer union” aimed at creating “a great
European State.” For Russia, however,
the future was dazzling. The war would
leave Russia “in a position no country
every occupied in the history of Europe.”
A “new colossus, master of the Continent,
Russia’s power will not only be great
on that account but still greater because
the Japanese Empire will also have
gone.”
The South African sage did not criti-
cise British foreign policy. In an
article probably written before the
Smuts speech, but published while it was
the theme of animated discussion by
leader-writers and politicians, the editor of
the “Nineteenth Century and After” criti-
cised it devastatingly. “Britain’s foreign
policy,” he declared, “has neither vigor
nor initiative; it is a policy of appeasement
—of the United States and Russia.” To
this many Americans, critics of the Ad-
ministration, would reply that as between
Britain and the United States the boot
is on the other foot, so commanding is
the influence of Mr, Churchill. But
neither Americans nor Britons would dis-
pute the editor’s statement that “Britain
is committed to Europe,” every would-be
master of which, from Louis XIV to
Hitler, it has fought, and that “the pre-
ponderance of any one Power in Europe
is a matter that concerns Britain’s future
and that of its Empire.”
This preponderance Russia is achieving
—on that point the magazine editor is as
emphatic as General Smuts. “Russia,”
he says, “sees the prospect of securing
abroad all that it has coveted throughout
its history.” In Europe it is “determined
to achieve an effective hegemony with
the object of dominating the Central
European industrial area and securing ac-
cess to the Atlantic and the JE gean, and
perhaps, through Slovenia, to the
Adriatic.” Instruments of this policy are
the Czechs, “or at least those of their
ruling class or that part of it represented
by the President, Dr. Benes.” “Pan-Slav
and pro-Russian,” these Czechs are “the
favorites of Russia today.” Another in-
controvertible statement. Between the
conclusion of the talks at Tehran and
the publication of the Churchill-Roose-
velt-Stalin declaration, it was announced
that a treaty of friendship, collaboration
and mutual assistance was about to be
signed at Moscow by representatives of
Russia and Czechoslovakia. It was added
in a protocol that neighbors “not allied
with Germany in the present war” were
welcome to come in.
One of these neighbors is Poland, to
protect and preserve which Britain and
the Empire went to war. The unhappy
Poles, still without diplomats to plead
their cause at Moscow (though our Mr.
Moloney is expected to do his best), have
been more apprehensive than ever of
Russian claims to the half of Poland
seized in September, 1939, since Mr.
Cordell Hull admitted to Congress that
“questions relating to boundaries must
by their very mature be left in abeyance
until the termination of hostilities,” and
so were not raised at the Moscow con-
ferences.
An American correspondent has it that
Marshal Stalin went to Tehran “only on
condition that the British and American
war leaders came prepared to discuss con-
crete plans for second and third fronts ;
he would never have gone unless the
Allies were prepared to strike in Europe
soon.” A British correspondent pictured
the “Premier” —as he was designated in
the declaration —as having dominated the
proceedings throughout. Be that as it
may, he seems to have got everything he
asked for in the military line. “As to the
war,” the second paragraph of the
declaration ran;
Our military staffs joined our round-table
discussions and we concerted our plans for
the destruction of the German forces. We
reached complete agreement as to the scope
and timing of operations which will be
undertaken from east, west and south. The
common understanding guarantees that
victory will be ours. 'v
This was emphasised in another para-
graph :
No power on earth can prevent our de-
stroying the German armies by land, the
U-boats by sea and the war plants by air.
Our attacks will be relentless and increasing.
Only the “German forces” and the “Ger-
man armies” were mentioned. As with
every other instrument to which Rus-
sians have been parties with Britons or
Americans or both during the last two
years the declaration doesn’t even hint
at the existence of another war, a war
which directly or indirectly conceips most
of the world’s inhabitants, Russians in-
cluded, and in which one of the fleets
engaged takes for its ranging province
70,000,000 square miles of ocean. Per-
sistence in the studied omission doesn’t
make it look any less queer.
It is by no means to be taken for
granted that the great conflict excluded
from the declaration was excluded from
the secret talks at Tehran or at Moscow.
Indeed, it is inconceivable that Mr.
Churchill and Mr. Roosevelt would agree
to “operations in the west,” which, as
Mr. Churchill once said, might ‘be “a hun-
dred times worse than Dieppe,” without
having asked for or received positive as-
surances as to Russian intentions in the
Pacific. Not only at Dieppe, but at
Salerno and at Betio, both nations have
learned that a landing in the face of
determined opposition is a terribly diffi-
cult and costly business, and a bloody
failjure on the Channel coast would have
certain political and probable strategical
consequences in the year of the Presiden-
tial and Congressional elections if the
suspicion remained in'the American mind
that the risk was taken without an explicit
understanding as to the war in the Pacific
having been arrived at beforehand.
After Tehran, a U.S. War Depart-
ment man, telling the story of “an
official film which shows how strong
Germany and Japan still are,” made a
significant statement. He said that
the War Department “does not want
Russia to declare war on Japan at
this time,” nor does it want air bases
in Siberia, because (1) the bases could
not be defended, and (2) the involving of
Russia in a “two-front war would dim-
inish its pressure on the Nazis and en-
danger the plans of our own armies.”
This may be held to be a satisfactory
explanation of a temporary abstention
reckoned as such.
Satisfactory also are the terms in which
the three leaders gave pledges of friend-
ship to one another and the world (“We
leave here friends, in fact, in spirit and
in purpose”), and expressed their “hope”
and “determination” that their “concord”
would result in enduring peace. They
recognised “fully” that “supreme respon-
sibility rests upon” them “and all the
United Nations to make a peace which
will command the goodwill of the over-
whelming masses of peoples of the world
and banish the scourge and terror of war
for many generations.” To Iran, where
doubts seem to have been felt, was
given a special assurance covering “the
maintenance” of its “independence, sove-
reignty and territorial integrity” and
economic assistance during and after the
war. The case of Turkey, still doubtful
after conversations with the Prime Min-
ister and the President, may necessitate
another conference, and this may alter
or amplify sentences capable of awkward
interpretations. Sad experiences of con-
ferences in two wars should warn us
against expecting too much, but it is clear
enough that the visitors to Tehran entered
upon a very necessary task in an excellent
spirit.
It has been remarked that the words
“unconditional surrender” were not men-
tioned. This evidently pleased the
“Times,” which came out with an aston-
ishing article in which it rejected alike
“the forcible disruption of Germany by
the victors” and the backing of “short-
term forces of disruption that might
appear in the hour of defeat,” arguing
.that “Europe must find a way of organ-
ising and using, not dismembering and
eradicating, German capacity,” so that
“German unity” may be incorporated in
“a broader European unity.”
Australia Does Its Bit.
Reviewing Australia’s war effort to
the end of the second year since
Japan barged in, Mr. Curtin was able
to show a brave parade of perform-
ance.
There has been home-front confusion,
particularly in farm production, most
of it directly traceable to (1) the fact that
Australia, in common with the other
democracies, had after the one war
swallowed the soothing nostrums of
peace concocted by well-meaning pacifist
and collective-security cranks, and con-
sequently was nowhere near prepared for
this second war when it came; and (2)
the perpetuation of the out-of-date
volunteer system for fighting total war,
which resulted in the uncontrolled enlist-
ment of many thousands of land men
whose going meant a serious crippling of
production.
Still back in the Dark Ages as far as
this aspect of total war is concerned, Mr,
Curtin made no mention of these factors
and their only too obvious results. He
did not mention the epidemic of strikes
on trivial grounds which also retarded
production and which, from time to time,
made it appear that there were two war
parties in Australia, the one prepared to
make any and every sacrifice and the
other bent on using the war excuse as a
means of advancing its own selfish
sectional ends.
Such aspects apart, the parade Mr.
Curtin was able to draw up was one that
Australia could look on with pride,
though all the figures given by the P.M.
should not be bolted whole.
There has been an enlistment of 858,860
men and 607,000 have volunteered to fight
anywhere—that is, they have joined the
A.1.F., the R.A.A.F., the R.A.N, For
Mr. Curtin to have been as frank as
many, no doubt, believed he had been, he
would have had to state how many of
those totals had meanwhile been demobi-
lised or otherwise lost from the lists.
That, of course, would have been giving
positive, and perhaps useful, informa-
tion to the enemy, and, anyway, the
figures as they stand are good.
Add to them 1,131,000 of the work-
ing male population and 191,000 women
engaged in direct war work and, for its
population, Australia can be said to be
doing its bit. Therefore there is nothing
derogatory to Australia in the fact that,
compared against the strength and re-
sources of the enemy in the Pacific,
it is really a microscopic bit. Mr, Curtin
emphasised this in mentioning one
theory advanced —that Japan is “prepared
to sacrifice 5,000,000 men in a war of
attrition against the democracies in de-
fence of the empire conquered since
Pearl Harbor.” Actually, the figure in
the theory—based on a statement by one
of Japan’s top-ranking military leaders —
was double that number. Against a sup-
posed total of 10,000,000 ready to be
sacrificed Australia’s fighting man-power
totals are seen in a shrunken per-
spective.
In the comparison Australia’s man-
power engaged in direct war production
shrinks even worse. “Japan,” Mr. Curtin
said, “has rich resources and a vast pool
of slave labor in the 400,000,000 people
of her conquered empire.” Against that,
a total of little more than one-and-a-
half million is certainly microscopic. It
emphasises that Australia is, after all,
still a small nation, dependent now and
for a very long future on the assistance
of others. It emphasises also what a
hopeless Fool’s Paradise this country was
allowed to become between the wars and,
even more, how necessary it is for Aus-
tralians to keep their minds made up that
no such state of criminal insecurity shall
ever exist again. i
Between the wars Diggers, through
their League, persistently urged the
strengthening of Australia’s defences.
They were ignored. It was accepted that
home-fronters who had never seen a
shot fired, who had become leading poli-
ticians partly by virtue of the fact that
they had stayed at home and so were at
hand to grasp opportunities—it was
assumed that these and the collective-
security and suchlike “visionaries” knew
better than the men who had done the
fighting and whose sons are doing it
again. Instead of the Digger represen-
tations on security being even so much as
noticed it became a major objective of
Australia’s political leaders, from the
wretched 1929 bunch onwards, to cut
Australia’s defence to practically nothing
and keep it so.
There will be many more Diggers after
this war and, if they can combine to-
gether, they should be able to see to it
that Australia is never again so badly
served. In their League, as in their fight-
ing, they have been outstanding in plac-
ing Australia’s national interests first.
They hold now that this country should
keep up a minimum army of 100,000. It
should keep up compulsory training and
as strong an R.A.A.F. and R.A.N. as
possible. Even then it must be dependent
for a long time to come on the certain
assistance of others, meanwhile making
immigration and general population
increase one of the very first planks of
national policy.
The present limited population is the
deciding factor in Australia’s whole war
effort. In this light the delivery of more
than 500 Australian-made Beaufort tor-
pedo bombers up to the end of Novem-
ber, the “more than a score of Aus-
tralian-built corvettes serving with the
R.A.N.” and the “orders for many
thousands of auxiliary vessels and small
craft being handled” can be rated fair
enough, though still small compared with
Canada’s output of such things, and
minute compared with the total require-
ments. Australia’s place, in fact, is that
of a vital base, absolutely dependent on
the buttressing of others, its own people
making a generally creditable war effort
for their size, practically half the national
income being spent on the war, direct
taxation “virtually at its limit,” the third
year of the war against Japan entered on
with fighting and home-front morale
higher than ever, and with all confidence
that from this base a notable part will be
taken in eventually driving the Japs back
to where they belong.
Mr. Curtin had to point out that that
job is far from done —a sensible change
from the vote-happy pre-election guff
which led many to believe that the war
was as good as over. A surprising num-
ber still believe it, and some will continue
to believe it despite Mr. Curtin’s flat
warning that if Japan is given time to
harness its resources and slave labor
“the democracies will face failure in their
war with her.” Not only is this war not
over, but there still could be defeat.
Stalemate would be defeat.
The timing of Mr. Curtin’s review in
relation to the meeting in Persia made it
appear that the P.M. was seeking to
reach a larger audience than Australia.
The Allied forces here, he said, “have,
with limited resources, taken every
Japanese military position they have
attacked under conditions never en-
countered by any fighting force in any
part of the world in the history of war.
Given a “heightened scale of striking
power” the same forces could “break
into Japan’s conquered empire” before
this “could be fully exploited,” P re '
liminary to “striking at Japan itself.
This part of the P.M.’s generally
heartening review will raise questions m
many minds. As well as the appeal tor
greater assistance there was the fear o
what Japan’s position might become 1
the Pacific war is not now treated as o
major importance. Had Mr. Curtin,
then, had no satisfactory assurance on tnis
score after the meeting of the
American and Chinese leaders in Cairo-
The inference could well be that M •
Curtin had had nothing either conc l" e j
or promising from that quarter. If he
he would surely have made the fact cfe •
Otherwise it could be inferred that, >
not mentioning such assurances (it any,
he was ensuring for his Government _
kudos for having brought assista r
which, without its urging, would n
have come. There has been a little
than enough of that sort of thing,
naturally it induces cynicism. .
A greater mystery remains ---
absence of Mr. Curtin himself frO J” ji v
Cairo conference. It seems h
credible that he was ignored, and J j
incredible that he was invited oVC ‘”. r f u id
did not go. Some explanation
have given added meaning to Mf-
tin’s warning on the need for taking
war against Japan more seriously.


PLAIN ENGLISH
Cut-and-Run's Latest.
“National Security regulations are to be
issued to restore to old-age, invalid and
service pensioners the cut of 6d. a week
made in pension rates last month.” So
it was announced at Canberra last week,
it being added that “the same powers will
be used to refund to the pensioners
amounts they have lost since the opera-
tion of the cut.” That was “made under
statutory provisions by which pension
rates vary with the cost of living.”
It represents another surrender by the
Cut-and-Run Government to pressure-
group clamor exploited by vote-hunting
politicians. In the process the Govern-
ment stultifies what it is pleased to call
its “price-stabilisation policy” and makes
hash of Acts of Parliament, at the same
time setting at naught a principle for
which brave men have died —Parliamen-
tary control of the public purse.
On price stabilisation Mr, Chifley bud-
geted for a 1943-44 expenditure of
£12,000,000; and that amount was to be
exclusive of “expenditure on primary pro-
duction arising out of war needs,”
reckoned at £11,851,000. Tea and potato
subsidies alone were expected to cost
£4,500,000 “this year.” In addition to
the direct expenditure considerable
revenue is being sacrificed by a 5 p.c.
reduction (12i p.c. to 7 p.c.) in sales
tax on clothing and household drapery,
embodied in a measure introduced by
Mr. Chifley on October 6.
There are about 330,000 old-age and
invalid pensioners and about 9000 ser-
vice pensioners. Excusing—and accus-
ing—himself, the leader of the Cut-and-
Run Government has stated that “the
present system of using the ‘C’ series
weighted average of the six capital cities
for all items of household expenditure,
by which rises or falls in the pensions
rate are determined by the cost-of-living
index figure, was agreed to by pensioners’
organisations.” That is true; and in
August, the cost-of-living index figure
having risen, pensions went up 6d. a week.
In November, the cost-of-living index
figures having fallen, the increase was
taken back. Now, it seems, there are
only to be rises in pension rates and
never to be falls.
Few people would agree that there has
been an actual reduction in the cost of
living, nor would anyone wish to score
off pensioners; but these are not the
material points. What matters is that
the Government has made another igno-
minious surrender to agitation, this time
at the expense of its own policy, its pre-
carious finance and Parliamentary control
of the public purse; done a disgraceful
thing in a dangerous way. In the palsied
hands of this mob, National Security
regulations have failed to override union
decrees, and it remains to be seen
whether, in this case, they can override
Acts of Parliament.
"Sheepskins for Russia."
Going home from work a Sydney man
came upon butts of tickets in a “Sheep-
skins for Russia” “art union”—euphem-
ism for lottery—on vacant land in Cam-
perdown. Obviously the tickets couldn’t
have been in the barrel when the lottery
was drawn, and there were “about 500,”
the finder judged. “Impossible,” the lot-
tery organiser, a lady, said when the fact
was conveyed to her; only three sets of
butts, “representing 30 tickets,” had been
“unaccounted for” ; and “the numbers
will be included in the next ‘art union.’ ”
But considerable dust was raised, and
out of it came the pained voice of Mr.
Badly, the Minister of Mines, an island
of brawn totally surrounded by Grey-
hound Control Board and Sydney Turf
Club files. Mr. Badly had previously been
obliged to withdraw himself from these
absorbing subjects to study a statement
of N.S.W. Aid Russia Committee financial
transactions which showed collections of
round £2lOO, with £lB available for Aid
to Russia, being not distantly reminiscent
of Falstaff’s inn score. Mr. Badly an-
nounced that the “Sheepskins for Russia”
misadventure would be inquired into,
and operations were begun by lynxes from
the Auditor-General’s office • and the
C. 1.8. Meanwhile, “police” volunteered
the information that “butts of tickets
bought by many people in past ‘art
unions,’ ” not necessarily “Sheepskins for
Russia,” had “not been included in
drawings.”
Early in the year “Sheepskins for
Russia,” in association with a local
patriotic fund, came under notice at
Footscray (Vic.). A “carnival” was held,
and the Mayor, Cr. McDonald, was so
dissatisfied with financial returns, as ren-
dered, that he called for the books. He
said “receipts totalled £2360 and expenses
£1300,” and “half the proceeds of £394
received from lucky envelopes went to a
person whom none of the carnival com-
mittee had seen, but who was understood
to be a starting-price bookmaker in
Fitzroy.” And the “Advertiser” men-
tioned a report that “helpers re-
ceived tributes for services rendered
—sheepskin rugs, dolls similar to those
given as prizes on the wheels, etc.”
To which a Mr. Waring, “carnival hon.
sec.” and Soviet Friendship League
officer, replied that “committee members
generally were dissatisfied with the per-
centage division from the lucky-envelopes
appeal and the percentage taken by the
showman,” and that “the only presenta-
tions made were two sheepskin rugs to
citizens not members of the committee
who did a great deal of work.”
Whatever the result of the Sydney in-
quiry, “Sheepskins for Russia” lotteries
should be knocked on the head by the
Commonwealth Government if the Syd-
ney Government won’t act. Many good-
hearted people who are not Communists
have given sheepskins, believing that all
sheepskins would go to Russia and none
to “helpers,” and many more would have
grown food for Russia had it been put up
to them as fellow-creatures and admirers
of brave men without the hateful pretence
that it is politically impossible for Rus-
sians to be hungry, much less to die of
malnutrition. Communists and fellow-
travellers have oodles of money, as witness
their lavish expenditure on radio and
printed propaganda. With portion of
what they spend in these ways huge stacks
of sheepskins could be bought and deliv-
ered without any danger of lottery tickets
going astray.
Save Our Soil!
Said Professor Kay, of Reading (Eng.);
“There can be no vigor in the nation if
there is no vitality in the land,” Max
Henry, chief of the animal-industry divi-
sion of the N.S.W. Agricultural Depart-
ment, holds that the professor’s view of
Britain “sets out with startling clearness
the position of Australia.”
And Mr. Henry gets close to the heart
of the matter in this country:
Unfortunately, the concentration of such
a large proportion of the population in
a few big cities has created a society which
is, to an astonishing extent, pitifully igno-
rant of the place which the land occupies
in all civilisations.
“To an astonishing extent” is right.
For a people whose national economy
rests mainly on land production, Austra-
lians are appallingly ignorant of land
affairs. This ignorance must be cured.
It was cured in America, where press and
radio* made suddenly aware of the fact
that the U.S.A. had lost through erosion
100.000. acres, was losing another
100.000. acres and stood to lose a
third 100,000,000 acres, featured the
disaster and forced home to url an
America the catastrophe it faced. So
Americans stood behind the national
Administration when it set out to save
their soil.
That will have to be done here. All
the reconstruction departments and com-
mittees being set up won’t be worth an
ice-cream in Hades without it. As Mr.
Henry says:
The necessity... .for soil conservation
has been too little realised.... It is a matter
of urgency.... that our agricultural out-
look should be refocused and our methods
radically reshaped.
The place for the refocusing and the
reshaping is in a Commonwealth Depart-
ment of Agriculture, given the men, the
money and the power to begin work on
saving the soil.
"A Sign of Moral Decay."
The “Railway Advocate,” organ of the
moderate National Union of Railwaymen,
wants to know, as a sequel to a confer-
ence representative of the, Tasmanian
Railway Department, the A.R.U. and the
N.U.R., whether “industrial agreements
are worth while”:
The majority of claims were carefully
considered; in a number of instances the
three parties agreed on certain adjustments
about which there was nothing tentative.
.... Such an agreement entered into by
honorable men is considered binding.
But after the conference “the A.R.U.
... under pressure from members, de-
cided that some of the agreements were
valueless.” These agreements were “repu-
diated” and new claims were lodged.
The N.U.R. states its view that “this
sort of ‘scrap-of-paper’ philosophy, put
into operation by the Kaiser of 1914,” is
“a real tragedy... .a sure sign of moral
decay and an obstacle to human pro-
gress.”
Mr. Curtin might hang those sentiments
in a frame over his desk.
Victorian Coal.
“C.H.S.”: Periodically Victoria grows
sick of being pushed aroilnd by N.S.W.
coalminers in respect of its requirements
for industry and domestic use and casts
a speculative eye on its brown-coal de-
posits.
Brown-coal deposits in Victoria run to
37,000,000,000 tons, enough for several
generations. According to a Melbourne
“Argus” writer, 75 p.c. of the brown coal
is at Yallourn and the other 25 p.c. right
on the coast at Welshpool and Gellion-
dale, “sea transport to Melbourne and
other ports” being in that case practicable.
But why must there be transport to
Melbourne? What’s wrong with estab-
lishing industries around the deposits?
This country will have to wake up to the
foolishness of centralising industry, and
no better start could be made than in
overcentralised Victoria.
The “Argus” writer suggests that pul-
verised brown coal could be used by the
railway locomotives, would be cheaper
than N.S.W. black coal would solve
transport problems. The trouble is that
transport problems are going to exist in
this country after the war, and steam-
driven railways are going to add to them.
Victoria’s brown coal could generate
sufficient electric energy to run all the
Victorian, Riverina and South Australian
railways, as well as supply power and
light to other users. The State should
consider the example of South Africa, a
model of advanced —and profitable —rail-
way management. When present plans
are complete, the Natal-Orange Free
State railways will have 605 route miles
of electric, equal to 1232 miles of single
track, for which power is generated by
coal.
Victoria’s longest line is Melbourne-
Mildura, 351 miles. Durban to Volksrust
is about 170 miles and is double-tracked
and electrified, making 323 route miles,
the longest electrified stretch the
Empire. Victoria has a white population
about the same as South Africa, and it
has hydro-electric energy as well as brown
coal. Electric railways are cheaper to
run than steam railways, and in the post-
war era they’ll be the only kind able
to compete against road and air trans-
port.
WATCHFUL WAITING.
“Mr. Curtin is one of the six Westralian delegates to the Federal A.L.P. Conference now in session.”


WolL
Vliiiapps
Mm Agents:
M M. Moss X (
SYDI
ALL-AUSTRALIAN
AND BETTER FOR THAT
.
v
.
m
PTROX
THE ONLY
ALL-AUSTRALIAN
SPARK PLUG
PYROX PROPRIETARY LIMITED, 18 Albion Street, Sydney
POLITICAL POINS
Provided the Federal A.L.P. delegates
approve, there is to c be a Commonwealth
referendum next year because three State
Parliaments wouldn’t agree to Dr. Evatt’s
14 points. The idea is to put the 14
points to the vote. It never occurred to
the first doctor to contrive an issue of
14 points and find it an unlucky number.
The Federal A.L.P. conference opened
in Sydney on Monday and then adjourned
to Canberra at the request of a delegate
from Westralia, Comrade J, Curtin, who
pleaded “urgent national considerations,”
The spectacle of a herd of delegates,
complete with offsiders, being transported
to Canberra ought to cheer up all those
struggling for a toehold on a N.S.W.
train to take them home for Christmas.
Three weeks ago Forde said his Gov-
ernment’s plan for releasing 20,000 men
from the Army for farm work was
“gathering impetus.” On Friday he an-
nounced that they would be released at
the rate of 2000 a month. And that’s
“gathering impetus”!
Told that State Health Ministers “view”
the national food position “with alarm,”
Scully admitted that it was serious, but
denied that it was attributable to lack
of production or “failure of distributive
channels.” Perhaps it’s a case of too
much Scully.
During the Federal election campaign
C. G. Fallon, of the A.W.U., alleged that
Fadden, as controller of the Sugar Lands
and Northern Guarantees cos., had when
P.M. employed “a number of canecutters
who are enemy aliens, to the absolute
exclusion of British cutters,” and his
“Worker” (the Queensland one) published
the impeachment. Fadden denied it and
sued for defamation. Artie went into
the box; Fallon didn’t; verdict for
Fadden, £lOOO and costs. For Fallon it
was a luckless preliminary to the Federal
A.L.P. conference, of which he is presi-
dent.
Twenty qf the 36 delegates to the
A.L.P. conference are politicians. The
veteran is W. D. Johnson, M.L.A. for
Guildford-Midland, who reached Perth
from the goldfields as iriember for Kal-
goorlie in 1901 (he was then 29), and
three years later was Minister of Works.
Always a “moderate” and a supporter of
voluntary co-operation for producer and
consumer alike, Johnson must have
rubbed his eyes when he caught sight of
the business-paper, especially the South
Australian contribution to it.
The pleasant northern N.S.W. city of
Grafton faces a grief-stricken Christmas,
13 boys, Wolf Cubs, having been drowned
in a dreadful picnic tragedy on the
Clarence River. A disaster such as that
affects all Australia, where young life is
precious. Swimming is taught in N.S.W.
Government schools, but only on a
voluntary basis. Now, of course, there
is a difficulty in getting instructors.
Queensland’s continuous Government,
without giving the people any chance to
register their opinion, abolished preferen-
tial voting at Parliamentary and muni-
cipal elections, holding that the people
weren’t intelligent enough to use it
properly. Its party is using the system
in the selection of candidates for the next
State election, presumably in the belief
that Labor league members are intelligent
enough to use it properly.
x . ...... . , _ ,
Maoriland, hke Australia, has a Labor
Government, but it is a Labor Govern-
9- difference. The Dominion,
ccor mg to a Wellington correspondent
(Sy ney D.T, s), is about to enjoy
workers, travel
restricted only by accommodation, plenty
of gifts and toys for sale, plenty of smok-
ing material, plenty of ingredients for
Christinas cakes and puddings, Santa Claus
in advertisements and.posters.
But then Maoriland has Govern-
ment and one army, nor does it appoint
more boards and commissions to control
commodities which control by board and
commission has rendered unprocurable—
except now and then at rubbish-tips.
A nice compliment was paid to the
Seventh and Ninth A.LF. Divisions by
Major-General Lethbridge, leader of the
British Military Mission, when he applied
ANOTHER HONEYMOON.
MAIR : “How old did you say you were?”
to them words used by Napier of the
Fusiliers at Albuera: “Nothing can stop
that astonishing infantry.” And he hasn’t
seen the Sixth. The Germans and the
Japs have.
Two interesting facts revealed by Dr.
Van der Plas, chairman of the Nether-
lands Indies Commission, in a review of
events since December 7, 1941:
We are organising and training on Aus-
tralian soil the steadily growing number of
Dutchmen and Indonesians who become
available for the war effort.
Our most important work perhaps is
being done in Netherlands New Guinea.
We are endeavoring to build there the
new Netherlands Indies.
And there was a tribute to General Mac-
Arthur —“he is not only a great general
but has also an unerring understanding
of the psychology of the Malayan-
Filipino races.” True, and equally true
—though it doesn’t seem to be appre-
ciated in some quarters —that no man of
the English-speaking race has had greater
opportunities of studying the Jap soldier
in victory (1904-05 and 1941-42) and
defeat (1942-43).
The mild Makin went to Ballarat for
the 89th Eureka anniversary and indulged
in tosh about the men of the A.I.F. hav-
ing “drawn their name of Diggers from
the inspiration of the diggers of Eureka/’
As a contribution to history this is non-
sense, nor is it on record that any Aus-
tralians took part in the Eureka shindy.
In any case Labor politicians should drop
Eureka unless they can recapture it from
the Communists. Those worshippers of
foreign gods have set up a Eureka Youth
League, whose latest stunt was to send
a cable to that gaseous creature Pritt,
K.C.: “National Committee of Eureka
Youth League, Australia, demand Mosley
be sent back to jail.” Eureka Youth
would be better occupied in demanding
that the Jap be sent back to Tokyo and
helping all out towards that consumma-
tion.
Party of one as he has become in the
Assembly—there he is called “the Lone
Wolf,” but not in his hearing—Lang can
still draw the multitude. He had a
packed house in the Glebe Town Hall
one night last week; and the night was
so wet and boisterous that none of the
faithful could have gone home dry-shod.
The big fellow let fly at Curtin Labor,
the Communists, conscription, the
Communists, the Atlantic Charter, the
Communists and “S. M, Herald,” and
finished strong. It was a sort of pre-
birthday celebration; on the previous
day he had completed 30 years as mem-
ber, and he will turn 67 on December 21.
Chiang Kai-shek was at the Cairo con-
ference but not at the Tehran conference.
Stalin was at Tehran but not at Cairo. It
transpires that General Sutherland, Mac-
Arthur’s Chief of Staff, was in the Cairo
party —at least he “conferred with the
chiefs of staff,” and went on to “Lord
Mountbatten’s headquarters in East Asia,”
Service votes, nearly all recorded on the
mainland and in C.C.C. camps, gave
Westralian Labor three seats by a small
majority, so it will resume business in
Harvest-terrace, Perth, with 30 —out of
50. With anything like a fair arrange-
ment of boundaries, it would have at
most 26 seats.
Two years’ revenue from taxes on totes
and bookmakers, as stated in the N.S.W.
Auditor-General’s report:
1941-42, 1942-43.
From bookmakers .. £82,369 £73,863
From totes >. 112,600 143,068
Down £8506 in one case and up £30,468
in the other; and this when mugs who
bet with bookmakers are more numerous,
financial and reckless than ever before.
Apropos, a man who wants to put £5OO
in a house investment has to subscribe
£lOO to war loan. Wagers of £5OO are
common, but in none of these cases is
a war-loan subscription exacted.
From a list of Labor nominations for
N.S.W. Assembly seats (the party holds
55 out of 90), with acknowledgments to
the official “Standard,” which has the
copyright :
Lane Cove: Baird, W. J. M.; Cullen,
P. S.; Everitt, H. B.; Harrison, W.;
Mostyn, O. W.; Murphy, J.; Woodward,
H. B. J.
Oxley: Baxter, E. H.
Tamworth: Cahill, C. J.; Cavanagh, J. J.
Wollondilly: Freeman, J. S.
From a list'of Assembly members pub-
lished in the current “Hansard”;
Major H. S'. FitzSimons, Lane Cove.f
Major G. D. Mitchell, M.C., D.C.M.,
Oxley, t
W. A. Chaffey, Tamworth.t
H. J. P. Bate, Wollondilly.t
t Granted leave of absence for the
session (on military service.)
So the Labor kawse goes forward—-or
does it?
From a New York “Times” interview
(October 22) with “Dr. Isaac N. Stein-
berg, general secretary of the Freeland
League for Jewish Territorial Colonisa-
tion, [who] arrived here after a four-year
stay in Australia, where he investigated
the possibilities of Jewish mass colonisa-
tion in the north-western section of the
country,”
Dr. Steinberg said the Government of
Western Australia had given official sanc-
tion to open up the Kimberley region to
colonisation. He added that the plan had
also been approved in principle by the
Commonwealth Government and by the
Australian Labor movement; the project
has the endorsement of the Australian
Council of Trade Unions and the Trade
Councils of New South Wales, Victoria,
South Australia and Tasmania, as well as
the support of large business, civic and
social organisation and religious leaders.
Hitherto there have been only vague
denials from the Governments mentioned.
Explicit statements are required.
Discussing the compulsory acquisition
of land for post-war settlement of mem-
bers of the fighting services, Lind, the
Victorian Minister of Lands, recalled that
after the last w,ar land values reached
their apex. Then the bottom fell out ot
the market, and the net cost of soldier-
settlement to the State, with amounts
written off, bad debts, reduction of values
and interest, etc., reached £15,000,000-
The cost to the unfortunate soldiers
wasn’t stated, but in the case of the
British officers in India who were induced
by optimistic Government propagandists
to sell their commissions and settle m
Victoria there were scores of cases or
complete destitution.
“Norther”: I hear the Queensland
Government is planning to use £50,0W
of its thumping war-time cash surplus
in buying land for forestry worlc, and
Lands Minister Walsh has said, that
forestry is a “cardinal feature” in tn
State’s post-war reconstruction plans-
I’m all for it; in fact. I’d be more tor
it if the Government decided to spen
all its surplus on forestry, but the spen -
ing would have to be in better hands than
it has been. Australia is dotted witn
State forests which have come to no-
thing. Afforestation should be a Com-
monwealth affair. _


(VtiCLJ' 1
Gold Medal
WINES
PERSONAL ITEMS
Members of all parties in the Victorian
Parliament waxed facetious when news
leaked out that Premier Dunstan had
sold his ancestral home in Bendigo,
stored his furniture and rented a flat in
Melbourne for the duration. Among
other things Dunstan is Hon. Minister for
Decentralisation. However, Dunstan has
the justification that his family is
scattered in the services, the eldest son a
captain in the army, another also in it
and a daughter a Waaaf. Another
daughter is a 3DB broadcaster.
John Hill, who can write Colonel be-
fore his name and D.S.C. after it, is to
be acting head of St. Peter’s, Adelaide,
after Guy Pentreath leaves at Christmas
to take over an English school. Hill held
the same position before Pentreath
arrived and after Bickersteth left on a
similar mission. It can’t be made per-
manent because he’s not a clergyman,
which the constitution of the school re-
quires in its headmaster.
Maoriland’s official war artist, Captain
Peter Mclntyre, has a personal back-
ground as colorful as the show of 70
of his war pictures exhibited at the Auck-
land Art Gallery. Son of an artist, he
was a Slade student in London, and also
studied in Paris. Then he attached him-
self to a French circus and wandered
through Europe, paintipg all manner of
things, including Herman Goring and
bullfights. After a successful'exhibition
in London he enlisted with the M.L. anti-
tank unit in Britain as a gunner. He
was in Greece, Crete and Tunisia. Mean-
while painting the war as he saw it, he
had to leave all his work—oils, water-
colors and sketches —in a cave on a cliff-
face in Crete, saving only his sketch-
book. He was luckier with a shell that
went through his truck at Sidi Rezegh ;
it left his good stack of finished work
untouched. Mclntyre has drawn por-
traits of Churchill, King George of the
Hellenes, General Freyberg, V.C., and
most of the other M.L. V.C. winners.
From an artist’s standpoint he considers
General Montgomery the most outstand-
ing personality he has so far limned.
“Unique determination” was how the
British Air Ministry ■ described the
performance of Pilot-Officer Robert
Christian Dunstan when awarding Vic-
toria’s one-legged airman the D.S.O.
He’s the game chap who went straight
from Geelong Grammar into the A.I.F.
at 18, lost a leg in Libya and subsequently
got into the R.A.A.F. Rear-gunner of a
Lancaster bomber, he removes his arti-
ficial limb, gets to his ’plane on crutches
and crawls to his post in the turret aft
on his one leg.
Isaac Isaacs’s brother-in-law, Phil
Jacobs, M.A., LL.M., of the Victorian
Bar, has brought out his long-promised
book, Famous Australian Trials and
Memories of the Law. Jacobs is already
well known as a writer of legal text-
books, one in collaboration with the late
Judge Eagleson and as the author of
Judges of Yesterday. In his latest book
he tells of a Kelly-country bank
manager who had somehow or other done
the Kellys a good turn. While all the
other bank managers were fearing the
worst this one could take a cheerful view
of things. He’d found nailed on his bank
door the notice: “John White, the Kellys
will not harm you.”
One of 12 Liberty ships recently
launched in U.S. and named after War
correspondents who have been killed in
this war is called the Keith Palmer, after
the Melbourne “Herald” man killed on
Bougainville Island last month.
Soldier of two wars:
The Ramu Valley, where he was on special
duty, has claimed as a victim one who knew
New Guinea well —Major Charles F. Duchatel,
mining engineer and explorer. A student at the
“Towers” School of Mines in 1914, he enlisted
in the Pacific Islands Expeditionary Force in
August, but a month later joined the Fifth
Light Horse machine-gunners, and was a ser-
geant on Gallipoli. Commissioned a year later,
he was in some of the toughest actions from
Pozieres to Passchendaele, ending up as major
with the M.C. From 1928 onwards he was in
New Guinea on road construction, mining
engineering and exploration, in one expedition
with Nason-Jones crossing from Lae to Port
Moresby. They were five months on that
job, mapping the headwaters of the Purari,
Vailala, Markham and Tauri rivers. Later,
with armed carriers, Duchatel explored the
headwaters of the Langemar and Kapau rivers,
near the Papua-New Guinea border, country
previously banned to individuals and companies
because a number of whites who had ventured
in had been murdered there. In the present
war Duchatel put in for the A.I.F. in Sep-
tember, ’39, and a few months later left New
Guinea to join up, meanwhile taking charge of
the training and operations of the Morobe
(mainland) detachments of the N.G. Volunteer
Rifles.
The retirement of E. Casey, g.m. of
M.L. Railways, after 41 years’ service,
closes an amazing career of industry. As
a young man Casey had the idea of going
to work on the wharves —his brother is
a wharf-laborer —but he thought better
of it, got on to the lowest rung of the
Railways ladder, went from department
to department, making himself conver-
sant with the smallest detail connected
with the service, and so to the top. In
addition to his ability as an administra-
tor, Casey is held to be the finest orator
in M.L.
The landing at Empress Augusta Bay
taking the Allied forces out of the British
Solomons and into
Australian mandated
territory, two officers
of A.N.G.A.U. staff
went ashore with the
invading troops to
re-establish civilian
a d m i n i stration —
Captain J. A. Cos-
tello and Captain F.
H. Moy, both of
whom had peace-
time administrative
experience round
about Bougainville.
Born at Balranald
(N.S.W.) in 1906,
Costello has been 17
years with the New
Guinea public ser-
vice ; Moy (31) came
in nine years ago
after a brief spell as
a schoolteacher in
his native South Aus-
tralia. Costello was
recalled to Salamaua
from leave with the
beginning of the Jap
threat, and, after the
first bofnbing raid?,
on New Guinea, did
patrol work in the
Waria and Lake-
kanau River districts
and around Bena
Bena. Moy was in
the fighting at Buna,
chiefly, in command of native labor
groups and scouting patrols.
Alfred Bright, successor to the late
Frank Shann as headmaster of Trinity
Grammar School, Melbourne, is an
Englishman who had some association
with Australia before coming here, hav-
ing studied at Leeds under Adelaide’s
William Bragg. Arriving in 1913, Bright
was first at Wesley College, then tutored
at Melbourne University, and in 1918
became senior maths, and science master
at Trinity Grammar.
Awarded the D.S.C. for “bravery and
skill in successful patrol in one of
H.M.’s submarines,” Lieutenant W. E. I.
Littlejohn, of Melbourne, a grandson of
the Dr. Littlejohn who was for 25 years
headmaster of Scotch College. The
doctor’s two sons served in the 1914-18
war —one (a Victorian Rhodes scholar)
from the outset as a captain in the
A.A.M.C. and the other first as a private
and then as a medical captain. A son of
the latter, Lieut. Littlejohn was captain
of Scotch College, and was following in
the footsteps of his father as a medical
student at Melbourne University when
the present war started. He joined the
R.A.N.V.R. as a sub-lieutenant in June,
1940, went overseas, had a dangerous job
to do in the North Sea as a corvette com-
mander and qualified for submarine work.
His younger brother, Flight-Sergeant
G. B. Littlejohn, was reported missing
after air operations over Europe with the
R.A.F.
After three years in Maoriland, where
he arrived from Pittsburg (U.S.A.), Salva-
tion Army Colonel W. A. Ebbs, chief
sec., takes on a similar job in Sydney
for Eastern Australia. Before going to
the U.S.A. Ebbs was stationed in Paris
and in Italy. An accomplished linguist,
he had an interview with Musso. and
said he was impressed.
An old schoolfellow’s summary;
The G.O.C. Eastern Command, Major-General
E. C. P. Plant, D. 5.0., 0.8. E., Croix de Guerre,
has every reason for being the fine soldier
he is. His father, Lieut.-Col. C. F. Plant, a
well-known North Queensland identity, main-
tained his interest in soldiering throughout
a long life. Major-General Plant’s soldierly
training and that of his two brothers—Reg, a
very capable A.L.H. officer, for a time attached
to the 10th Hussars in India, and Dr. Harold,
captain A.A.M.C., killed at Pozieres —began
under the whiskered old Swiss officer, Captain
Bobby Gross, who, from his little cadet corps
of 70 boys at Brisbane Grammar School, turned
out a record bag of generals of the last and
this war —L. C. Wilson, Jim Cannan, W. A.
Coxen, Sellheim, Lavarack, Miles, R. E. Jack-
son, Cecil Foott, Boase, among them. Young
E.C.P. was the baby of the school rifle team
which won the Earl of Meath’s rifle cup for
Australia against the public schools of the
Empire. He entered the C.M.F. with a com-
mission just in time for the last war, and saw
his war through the hardest way—for much
of the time as Gellibrand’s brigade major—
MAJOR-GENERAL PLANT.
(Modelled by Frith.)
one of the “little staff holding like tempered
steel... .reared together in Bohemian simplicity,”
who during the days of Second Bullecourt,
“despite a bombardment that battered out of
shape its wretched dugout, worked steadily like
the gallant heart of an indomitable engine.”
There is a typical picture of E.C.P. in the
official war history in a photograph of Gelli-
brand’s staff breakfasting in, a shellhole in
Sausage Valley on Aug. 1, 1916. He is the
only officer who can raise a smile and who
has a whole biscuit-box to himself. Once,
when somebody at Noreuil stumbled across
Gellibrand in his blankets and asked for his
brigade major, the Long Man replied “I keep
him here,” and produced Plant, asleep in spite
of the heavy shelling, from under a kitchen
table. Plant returned to a long series of post-
war promotions—G.S.O.2 at the British War
Office for a couple of years, G.5.0.l First
Cavalry Division, Director of Military Training,
Commandant at Duntroon, command of a brigade
in the M.E. and Greece. He was one of the six
general officers brought hastily home when Japan
declared war, and was G.O.C. Westralia during
the early crucial days of 1942. Thence he
transferred to the Victorian Area Command
and recently to his present position as G.O.C.
Eastern Command. He is, personally, a quiet,
modest soldier, who has the reputation of
being a fine administrator and trainer of young
officers.
Word has been heard of Colonel
A. E. Coates, former president of the
Victorian 8.M.A., who was consulting
surgeon to A.I.F. hospitals in Malaya
when the Japs started pouring down the
spine of the peninsula. Coates left
Singapore under orders two days before
the surrender, had his ship removed from
under him by a Jap bomber, and landed
on Sumatra. When the Japs followed he
volunteered to stay behind with the
wounded and was captured. He is now
reported to be doing medical work as a
p.o.w, in Burma. So the Japs have the
services of a remarkable medico. As
an infantryman he studied medicine and
surgery in Gallipoli’s trenches. Later he
worked in the mailroom of Melbourne
Post Office at night and studied medi-
cine at the University in, the daytime. By
extraordinary persistence he gained
first-class honors and one of the biggest
prizes in pathology. Forty-eight, he was
born at Ballarat.
From John Brennan:
Leader of the Maorilanders in the brief cam-
paign which cleaned the Japs out of the Treas-
uries, Brigadier R. A. (“Digger”) Row went
into the army in 1914. Born at Christchurch
in 1890, he was on Gallipoli as a second lieu-
tenant, and came out of France at the Armistice
as It.-colonel in command of the First Bat-
talion Canterbury Regiment. Between wars he
worked on various staff jobs in M.L., then,
when the current fighting started, went to the
Middle East on a special assignment to study
modern methods of warfare for the improving
of Maoriland training. He was in Greece on
liaison work, and in Crete. Late in 1941 he
went to join his present brigade in Fiji and has
been with it since. Vigorous, jovial and exact-
ing in discipline, he’s a favorite with his chaps.
Horace Perkins, of Brighton (S.A.), has
earned the Doctor of Music degree at
Adelaide Uni., most of his composition
having been done somehow during three
years of war service overseas. Other “doc-
tors” to earn this very rare degree have
been Ruby Davy, now of Melbourne,
Dalley-Scarlett, of Brisbane, and Alex.
Burnard, of the N.S.W. Conservatorium.
Margaret Angas, who topped first-year
students in “workshop practice” in the
Adelaide Uni. engineering course, brings
a new line into the famous pastoralist
family of S.A. She is daughter of the
late Dudley Angas, of Hill River station,
and related to Charles, J.H., and the other
noted pioneers and stockbreeders. She
proposes moving to Sydney to make a
career of ’plane-planning.
Thomas Dodd, of Mt. Gambier (S.A.),
in his 90th year, is still on the job after
completing 53 years as secretary of the
Oddfellows’ Lodge (Manchester Unity) in
the Blue Lake town. A resident there
for 60 years, he has served in municipal
government, and was in the militia of
the red-coated days.
Lately reported to have shot down a
Heinkel over the island of Cos, in the
Aegean, Pilot-Officer W. Busby belongs
to one of North Auckland’s oldest fami-
lies, a descendant of the James Busby
who, ovep a century ago, was sent to
New Zealand as British Resident at the
Bay of Islands. Since the Battle of Britain
young Busby has been on the job
wherever enemy aircraft were to be
found, from England to Egypt.
Into the silence:
In Melbourne, at 62, William Shields, a Vic-
torian motor pioneer. He established the
Shields co. in 1907 and was a foundation
member of the R.A.C.V.
At 86, in Adelaide, Miss Harriet Gook, of
the family claiming to have been the first settlers
in the Pinnaroo mallee. Later her father was
manager of the National Park, then called the
Government Farm, with Governor’s country
residence. With her sister. Miss Cook ran the
girls’ school “Mrs. Hubbe’s,” which for years
was about Adelaide’s best.
In Melbourne, Dr. John Hodgson Nattrass,
founder and chairman of directors of Lister
House Proprietary, which built Lister House.
He held high army medical appointments.
At 64, in Melbourne, Mrs. William Bradley,
singer and mother of one of Australia’s most
musical families. It includes sons Charles,
Kevin, Reginald and Leo and daughters Eileen
and Margaret, all well known in orchestral and
broadcasting circles. Denis Bradley, the 12-
year-old violinist whose talent is being watched
over by an influential committee, belongs to
the second generation.
At 69, in Melbourne, Judge Henry Christian
Winneke, of Vic. County Courts and Chairman
of the Railway Classification Board since 1919.
A solicitor-son is a group-captain in the Air
Force.
In Sydney, at 66, Dr. L. Cowlishaw, out-
standing authority on medical' history, on which
he lectured for years at Sydney University.
Member of the Royal Australian College of
Physicians, he served with the Army Medical
Corps in the 1914-18 War and afterwards helped
the Legacy Club with its fine work. A book
collector all his life, Dr. Cowlishaw had at
his Lindfield home one of the best private
libraries of medical lore in Australia, as well
as an excellent library of general literature.
At 75, Dr. R. J.-Millard, for 27 years Medical
Superintendent of the N.S.W. Royal Prince
Henry Hospital. In 1926 he’ was chairman of
the commission which did a great deal to im-
prove the general condition of hospitals.


Society
"AND IT'S PRINTED
WITH WIMBLE'S INKS"
“Pip”; The placards and notices in
our mess hut almost obscure the walls.
Caption over the doorway warns us to
“Abandon hope all ye who enter here,”
while one of the cooks (who rather fan-
cies himself as a signwriter) has painted
the entreaty “Don’t sneer at the coffee
—you might be weak yourself some day.”
In similar vein he promulgates “Don’t
blame the cooks for your indigestion—
chew your (nice) food,” and “If your
steak’s tough, you’re not. Don’t be a
sissy.” The M.O. is a practical man
with a deny on flies. He has a notice:
“Straight from the Latrines —Swat that
Fly!” Tough, but effective. A more
cheerful note is struck by the rainbow
promise “Free beer tomorrow,” and a
touch of the warm south comes from a
beauty bursting out of a hanky (or what-
ever it is she is wearing) who begs us
to “Come to Sydney for the summer.”
Another lass implores us to “Join the
A.W.A.S. now.” But the best of the lot
is the lovely lady in blue who imparts
the information “There’s a job for you
in the W.A.A.A.F.” She always brings
a grin.
* * * *
“Peter Piper”: Restrictions on property
sales have caused wholesale speculation
in boardinghouses and residential. One
I know, bought for £7O in pre-war days,
containing very ordinary furniture and
only eight boarders, sold for £350. A
fortnight later it changed hands again
for £420. I have become inured to
blanketless winters, watery soup, cadg-
ing room-mates, stickybeak landladies,
fleas, bugs, cockroaches and sundry other
boardinghouse pests ; but saying hail and
farewell to a different landlady once a
week or so is getting on my nerves.
♦ ♦ ♦ *
“T.McN.”: When I read that an Eng-
lish film director, Harry Watt, was com-
ing here to make a film on Australians
at war I threw my hat in the air, kissed
the lift man and bolted out to buy a
drink for the first Englishman I could
find. The other day I came across an
article by Mr. Watt. Some extracts:
Some of my Australian friends here have
asked me, “But how will you get over the
Australian accent? And our gait? Ever
observe how an Australian walks?”
Mr. Watt would have done this country
a service had he thrown his “Australian
friends” off the set, but he has been im-
pressed to the extent of declaring that
“accent is a problem.” Why? English
audiences don’t find the American accent
a problem, and I’ve never heard of any-
body in an Australian theatre walking
out on an English picture, chock-full of
rummy dialects and accents as most of
them are. As for our gait—well, most
of us walk as if we owned the earth, and
why shouldn’t we? I, for one, won’t
change for anybody.
* * * *
“S.T.S.”; Most of us Australians have
some way to go yet to catch up with the
real American language where sport is
concerned. Here is a sentence from the
Los Angeles “Times” about a match in
the last football season; “What Flatfoot
Frankie accomplished on two bum dogs
was a fair country tipoff of what he might
have been with sound underpinning.” It
may be presumed that in English he
played well, though limping.
“Andy”: “L.H.P.” *(B. 24/11/’43)
refers to “The Bohemian Girl” as the
“East Lynne” of opera. There is a closer
"But, George , if you miss a parade you wont get a good-conduct medal."
connection. The best-known song of the
opera, “Then You’ll Remember Me,” is
mentioned in the novel, and is always
part of the play. For nearly a century
Lady Isabels and Barbara Hares have
sung “When Other Lips and Other
Hearts,” and the play has probably done
more to keep the old song alive than has
the opera, nowadays hardly ever per-
formed.
* * * *
“Bumpk”: They say in Melbourne
these days that if you want a constant
supply of vegetables on the cheap all you
have to do is to take up residence near
a municipal tip. Recently ten tons of
beans which had been brought from Syd-
ney were shot on the M.C.C. tip at South
Kensington, and when the news got round
locals turned up with barrows. A few
days later there was a mountain of cab-
bages, all in good heart, in the same
place. The official explanation was that
the beans had been ordered by the Army
but got a bit stale before they could be
delivered. A market glut was said to be
“I think it's very clever the way you Americans have picked up our
language so quickly."
responsible for the cabbage avalanche.
But other officials say there is a shortage
and are Urging more and more produc-
tion.
* * * *
“Bo”; The A.B.C. news announcer was
blithely skimming through a Pacific com-
munique when disaster loomed. “Beau-
fighters,” he announced, “have strafed
and sunk a large and a” ; then, the
abyss yawning at his feet, he stopped in
his tracks. A dead silence for about
four seconds, then he resumed: “I’m
sorry, that part of the communique should
read ‘Beaufighters have strafed and sunk
a barge and a lugger.’” And the ghost
of Dr. Spooner could be heard sighing
softly.
* * * *
“P.McM.”: Tell “Avon” (B. 8/12/’43)
that a Brisbane theatre has been playing
three national anthems before every per-
formance for some time. Only a bar or
so of each is played, accompanied by
patriotic screen effects, and nobody
squirms.
“Pitt St.” more in sorrow than in
anger;—
Sydney is beginning to smell. Summer
arrives tardily, but on any warm day the atmo-
sphere in crowded store, theatre or queue can
almost be cut, and passing cafds and food-
shops the nose is affronted. The streets are
dirtier than they’ve been for years, and the
litter in parks and public gardens is disgraceful.
Like many others. I’ve given up trying to get
a drink around the 5-6-p.m. hour, refusing to
paddle over a sloppy floor through a mob of
crowding, yelling customers to a sloppier bar
counter. Bad manners are common. I travel on
trams conveying youngsters to swanky private
schools. No child ever thinks of giving up a seat
to an adult, and even when a doting parent
accompanies the brats they cling to the seats.
Louts in monogrammed school caps and hats
are impudent to conductresses and passengers
alike. But the worst aspect of the place is
that it is becoming one big racket. Hence
people are wearing a furtive, cunning look and
always seem to be hurrying somewhere to get in
on some good thing before the rest wake up to
it. I’m thinking of retiring to the backblocks.
* * * *
“Clooter”: A tale corned out of the
U.S.A. of an accused man submitted to
a test by lie-detector machine and
acquitted. Charged with attacking a
woman, he pleaded not guilty, and the
Judge ordered the test. After sitting for
30 minutes answering questions, while
his reactions were indicated on the gauge
or whatever it is, he was freed, the
machine being credited with saving him
a ten-year sentence. Then the Judge
ordered the arrest of a woman on a
charge of perjury. There the tale ended,
but I’m wondering what that Judge will
do if the woman demands to be put
under the machine and it gives her a
favorable report.
* * * *
“C.B.”; Do Victorian schools teach
Australian history? Melbourne philatel-
ists report a boom in the Macarthur
ninepenny stamp, whose collector value
has increased to 3s. 6d., but they ascribe
the enthusiasm of buyers to the belief
that the gentleman represented is not
John Macarthur but Douglas MacArthur.
* * * *
“WX Digger” produces a little N.
Guinea scenario: —
Scene: A jungle. Various case-hardened
Diggers, carrying a variety of camouflaged
weapons, alternately, creeping and charging
wildly around frees and through thick scrub.
Cries of “There he goes, the little illegitimate;
look out, look out, the little So-and-so
is right on you.” “By I’d like to get this
bloke.” A soldier lunges and curses again.
There is movement on the right flank; the men
silently fake up concealed positions and wait
breathlessly. A tense stillness supervenes.
Then hell breaks loose again. In their eagerness
to join the fray and help their mates men,
caught in interminable creepers, fall to the
ground, their clothes torn and faces and hands
bleeding. Then a prisoner comes in; then an-
other. Their captors, proud and smiling,
guard them ’’closely and refuse to hand them
over. For a quarter of an hour the battle
rolls on with grim ferocity. Away to the left,
Diggers, veterans of desert and jungle, are
crawling on hands and knees to make a wide
encirclement. Cunning, resolute chaps these.
Suddenly they charge again. They join forces
with the men on the right. The battle is over
and the party retires after carefully posting
sentries. The prisoners are put to death. There
is no quarter in this ruthless campaign. Aus-
tralia must pay the cost, but, in the long run,
many an Australian home will be brighter,
Australians chasing Japs? No —Australians
chasing butterflies^
* * * *
“Notis”: Overheard in a Brisbane tram
when two lasses were discussing their
conquests. “Oh! I like Bob ; he’s a real
gentleman. He doesn’t blow in your
ear.”
* * * *
“A Major”: . Mention in the Mel-
bourne woman’s letter (B. 8/12/’43) of
a movement to have orchestras estab-
lished in every school and suburb as “the
best way of training both students and
audiences in musical appreciation” brings
to mind a very thoroughgoing recognition
of the importance of music in an Aus-
tralasian school—the King Edward Tech-
nical College, of Dunedin, M.L. All stu-
dents there take music as one of their
subjects. There is an orchestra of 250
performers, almost all of whom com-
menced their instrumental efforts at the
school. Time is given for singing on all
class timetables, but more serious musi-
cal instruction is imparted outside the
ordinary class hours —from 8.30 to 9 and
from 4 to 4.30. So popular is the musi-
cal side that students pursue their studies
in their homes, little groups in each neigh-
borhood, under the leadership of a
teacher or senior student, meeting one or
two evenings a week. “Thus,” reports the
director, “music is being brought back
into the homes and is resuming the social
influence it had before the gramophone
and the radio sundered it.”
THE SCHOLAR-BOXER.
“Probably the most intellectual of all world
champs., Gene Tunney [now in Australia] can give
as good a dissertation on Shakspeare as on boxiana.’’
A queer, a veritably queer conjunction,
The science and the art of punching hard,
The will to whack and wallop, sans compunc-
tion.
Wherever there are blows to give or guard.
And to discourse with fervor and with unction
On the pre-eminence of Avon’s Bard
O’er all the rest, in any age or clime,
Who ever penned a stave or slung a rhyme.
The great John Sullivan, who’d trim and trowel
All bruisers game to face him long ago,
Jack Johnson, Dempsey, too —for whom the
towel
Went up for many a defeated foe —
What did they know of Longfellow or Lowell,
I wonder, or of Edgar Allan Poe,
Or even of Walt Whitman? Not a thing,
I’ll lay, for all their prowess in the ring.
But here’s a champ, who’s been a zealous
roamer
Through all the realms where bright Apollo
reigns;
Revelled, he'll fell the world, in strong-winged
Homer
And thrilled to Roman Virgil’s softer strains;
Found time as well to relish Persian Omar
In old Fitz Gerald’s rich and rare quatrains—
How different from the old-time pugilists
Whose brains were concentrated in their fists!
There was an English scrapper, name of Gully,
Who rose, as possibly you’re all aware,
From many a stubborn contest, warm and
woolly
And wild, a seat in Parliament to snare,
And at the end, efficiently if dully,
Officiated in the Speaker’s chair,
Where, someone cynically said, his face
Was perfectly in keeping with the mace.
But you, O modern Dares, you whose part is
To let the wealth-providing cestus be,
And turn to what are called ingenuee artes
From mere corporeal proficiency.
Idly I’m speculating if your heart' is
Set on a university degree.
An honorary one, of course, I mean,
Which surely nobody would grudge you, Gene.
N.S.W.
T. THE R.
AND THAT’S THAT.
“Mr. Ourtin said that Mr. Calwell was P erf , „
entitled to request motion-picture theatres to v
‘Advance, Australia Fair’ or any other anthem,
the leaders of the motion-picture industry
equally entitled to carry out such request tri V
desired."
That settles it. He neither broke a law
Nor set at naught a Cabinet decree.
He has an equal claim to wag his jaw ,
With humble blokes and coves like yon
me.
Surely there’s none can seriously contest
The right to lodge a courteous request.
A chap may breast ’most any bar, I wot ,’ v )
And voice his preference for a schooner t s y ’
Though whether he’ll be gratified or not
Largely depends upon the time o day.
Still, to apply for one, whate’er your late
May be, is perfectly legitimate.
A lad may love a lass, and do you know
Of any reason why he shouldn’t decioe
To tell her unequivocally so . .. «
And beg her to become his blushing brio‘
But she, though free to have him if she cl
Is equally entitled to refuse.
Heart up, then, Calwell! Whatsoever they say.
You’re perfectly entitled to suggest
That any band or orchestra should P la 7.
Whatever suits your taste and fancy dc-
And if they like they will —and if they do
Regard it as desirable, they won t.
That settles it for all who’ve ears to kcar.
It ought to ease full many a muddled tn
To have the points at issue put so clear.
The rights of either side so well denn
And now the knotty controversy s o er,
We might get on, I’ll venture, with the
N.S.W.
MIDFORD


“D.E.”: Stalin, going'to meet Roose-
velt at Tehran, was the subject of charm-
ing pen portraits in the Sydney morning
papers. As a concession to seniority I
place “S. M. Herald’s” first: —
The stocky figure of Marshal Stalin,
clad in a long blue greatcoat over a mar-
shahs uniform, emerged from the living
quarters and strode throngh the gardens to
the Embassy. His rather full, broad face
seemed to be singularly unlined and marked
by an almost Oriental impassivity. He
seemed in excellent humor.
But the “D.T.’s” effort was equally dash-
ing;—
Stalin, wearing -an ankle-length grey
camelhair coat, walked from his residence
in the Russian Embassy grounds to the
iteSaU of « d m mT m a e „72le"St
the doorway before entering to meet Roose-
“I can tell you the time we leave, mate, but I've no idea when We'll arrive."
velt. As he passed through the doorway
observers noted that his hair and moustache
were now steel-grey, and that the strain
of war had left deep lines engraved on his
thickset features.
And only fourpence the pair!
* * * *
“X.S.”: The biggest pickings Mel-
bourne’s legal fraternity have had for a
long time are likely to come from the
contest that has developed over the for-
tune of Robert Edgar Loft. A recluse
with no friends, he was found dead in
apparently poverty-stricken circumstances
in a house in North Melbourne. He left
£45,000, and apparently there was
no will. The Court has made an
order in favor of the Public Trustee for
interim administration. Thirteen indi-
viduals claim to be nephews or nieces,
and four claim, as cousins, to be next-of-
kin. The latest development is’the shift-
ing of the venue to England, where evi-
dence has to be taken concerning a
marriage said to have taken place in
Cornwall in 1824.
* * * *
Three poets discuss another:
Further light was thrown on the of
The Man from Snowy River when “John
O’Brien,” Jim Grahame and Will Lawson met
in Narrandera recently. “John O’Brien,” who
is Father Hartigan at St. Mel’s there, said that
years ago he was called to a sick man’s bed-
side at the headwaters of the Murray and stayed
with him all night. In an interval someone
read “Banjo’s” poem aloud. To Father Harti-
gan’s surprise nobody appeared pleased. When
he inquired the reason of this, he was told that
the sick man was the original of the famous
mountain rider. “Go in and talk to him about
it, Father,” they said; “he’s a bit better now.”
So the padre did. The sick man, whose name
was Riley, said that Paterson was not present
on the day of the rounding up of the brumbies.
But on the following day Riley was told to
show Paterson his way to some neighboring
place, and during the ride he related to “Banjo”
the story of the hunt, from which the verses
were written. What displeased the people
present was that “Banjo” introduced people who,
it was claimed, were never near the mountains
that day. They did not realise that it was poet’s
license.
And “Altera Merces” corroborates:
I have pasted in my copy of The Man from
Snowy River an article by M. M. Taylor
which appeared in “S. M. Herald,” July 7, 1915.
Taylor says the original Man from Snowy
River died a few days before, and his name
was William Riley, a stockman, who for 30
years lived in a log hut on the western falls of
the mountains. In 1912 I was in the alpine
country and met William Riley, and was told
by several men in the locality that he was
“Banjo’s” original Man from Snowy River. I
could quite believe it, for in “Banjo’s” words
“it was grand to see that mountain horseman
ride.” Paterson, although he was in Egypt
in charge of remounts in 1915, must have read
Taylor’s article, and if it was not true would
have had something to say about it.
* * * *
“Jachris”: There’s little, very little,
reading matter to be had in all the 20
square miles or so of the Empress
Augusta Bay beachhead. What there is
is well-thumbed, passed carefully from
hand to hand and guarded jealously from
the ravages of rain and rats and land
crabs which infest the holes in the ground
in which the present-day occupants of
that reclaimed swampland are living,
Some American magazines, two sadly-
, , . ( ° p ., ’ , r .,
dated copies of The BULLETIN, one of
the “Woman’s Mirror,” the sporting page
torn from a Melbourne daily giving ac *
ceptances for (unfortunately) the Caul-
field Cup—these last came in as excess
baggage with a tiny detachment that went
in with the invasion force—and a few
paper-backed novels and volumes of
short stories. In one collection, so tat-
tered now that it looks as though it might
have travelled in somebody’s pocket from
the farthest corner of the world, is a story
which centres in Bougainville. A fine
piece of work by “Saki,” killed in the
last war, it’s called The Price of the Head,
and tells of the lengths to which a native
was prepared to go to add a red-bearded
head to his collection. That native’s plan
of campaign was worthy of the best
Operations Staff in all this South Pacific
campaign.
* * * *
“Ear Punisher”: Senator Keane, in
controversy with the Rev. Robertson
McCue, secretary of the Victorian Local
Option Alliance, asserted that “beer-
drinking has been a part of British
national life from time immemorial.”
Retorted the Rev. McGue: “That proves
nothing—so has wife-beating.” His
logic can’t be assailed on that point, but
I can’t help wondering what side he
would have espoused when tea had begun
to make inroads into the nation and
was sapping the health and morals
of the people. Whole sermons were de-
voted to the subject, and one eminent
cleric, after inveighing against tea-drink-
ing in precisely the same words which
the Rev. Mr. McCue now uses about
alcoholic liquor, concluded with a
pathetic appeal to his congregation not
to succumb to the foreign menace, but
to remain faithful to the drink of their
forefathers —“that wholesome beverage
beer!”
“Bo”: A temperance lecturer of the old
fruity vintage turned up at our suburban
hall. After lashing the Demon Rum and
associated alcoholic imps, he spoke of
the progress being made, not only at
home but abroad, by wearers of the blue
ribbon. The Demons were fighting back
with fanatical ferocity to defend their ill-
gotten gains, but the water-wagons were
developing regular panzer-pincer move-
ments everywhere. Then arose a dame
looking all vinegar and lemons, and asked
what were the prospects of universal tee-
totalism. * The speaker leaped into the
collar. “My friend,” he avowed, “that
it will come is as certain as that the sun
shines in heaven—but, of course, I cannot
say when!” Then the laugh started.
* * * *
“Tailor’s Goose”: M.L. Army authori-
ties seem to be having trouble in popu-
larising the regulation felt hat —made on
the same lines as the Australian “slouch,”
but worn with four dents. A recent “in-
struction” calls on officers to encourage
the wearing of the felt hat in lieu of
the service cap when off duty. The
carrying of the cap tucked under a
shoulder strap is forbidden. Khaki shirts,
collars and ties may be worn with battle-
dress by all ranks, and the two top
buttons of the blouse may be left un-
buttoned. This last is a reference to the
new summer uniform, after an Allied
pattern. The order adds that these shirts,
collars and ties will not be issued, but
must be provided at soldiers’ own ex-
pense. They may crease their pants, too,
but “permanent creases must not be
stitched into the legs of battle-dress
trousers.”
* * * *
“Strict Veg.”: The Englishman who
left a sum in his will for providing two
free pots of beer for all and sundry at a
Portsmouth pub on his birthday in
memory of the pleasant company he met
and the happy hours he spent there had
a precedent in a well-
to-do Afghan hawker
who bequeathed
money to the State
school in a Victorian
township sufficient to
provide all the kids
with lollies and ice-
cream. By the way,
what will happen at
the Portsmouth hos-
telry next year, now
that the news has got
into the papers?
* *
.“Ajax”: The fact
that Basic English “at-
tenuates a magnifi-
cent language” (B.
17/11/ ’43) is irrele-
vant to the point at
issue, its prospects as
an international lan-
guage. Compared with
ordinary English, Basic
is certainly as ineffi-
cient and clumsy as a
robot compared with
a man, but it is not
suggested that it
replace English. On
the other hand, if it
ever becomes accepted
as an international
language, it should
extend the use of Eng-
lish —and no English-
speaking person
ought to object to
that; least of all, a writer, unless he
lacks faith in his own ability to com-
pete with foreigners. One can hardly
learn Basic without learning a little more
than the Basic vocabulary, and, having
gone so far, many students would surely
wish to go on, if only to read the great
English poets and novelists in the original.
In two or three generations, English
might well become the universal language
and Basic only a stopgap studied by
foreigners in order to make themselves
understood until they had an adequate
knowledge of the real thing.
$ * * *
““Spokeshave”: The most searching
aesthetic judgments don’t come from the
professional critics. Our office boy spent
his lunch hour inspecting the exhibition
of one of our leading local artists. “How
did you like the pictures?” he was asked.
“Well,” he answered, “some of the por-
traits looked good enough to be colored
photographs! ”
* * * *
“Gunner”: This dying year should
not pass unrecorded as the tercentenary
of the institution of that most irksome
obligation of the British soldier the shav-
ing of the chin each morning. In 1643
the New Model Army, product of Oliver
Cromwell and his grim associates, was
created to smite the Cavaliers. Those
roisterers went “bearded like the pard.”
The “godly men” caught up in the drag-
net of the Long Parliament, man-power-
ing the districts under its control, were re-
quired to present themselves for enlist-
ment with “hair close cropped and shaven
as to chin,” hence the nom de guerre
Roundheads. The joyless decade of army
rule'under the Commonwealth sufficed to
implant the routine orders about shaving
firmly in the military mind. Regiments
such as the Coldstream Guards, which
survived the 1660 Restoration as the
nucleus of the army of today, carried on
the tradition. Later establishments faith-
fully followed suit. Lapses from grace
there may have been, wild growths of the
Crimean winter or the New Guinea
jungle, but these cannot live long in the
bleak atmosphere of the parade ground,
where the R.S.M. holds sway. So still the
fervent curses of the Digger rise each
morning, mingling with the echoes of a
ghostly army, marching back through
full 300 years of unbearded glory.
* * * *
“C.Q.”: A race between rival wreckers
is coming to an end off Barwon Heads
(Vic.), where the steamer Orungal ran
aground three years ago and was then
burnt out. Although he had had no
previous experience of maritime salvage,
Melbourne’s Whelan took on the job of
saving the remnants of the vessel, and for
two years his “bulls,” whom nothing ever
daunted on land, have been helping Nep-
tune to tear the hulk to pieces. A fishing
boat can now sail right through the wreck
and the seas pour in at one end and out
at the other. The sign familiar to lands-
men, “Whelan the Wrecker Is Here,” will
shortly be removed, but not before almost
everything of value has been salvaged.
* * * *
“Curtain Raiser”: I note that A.8.C.,
commenting on 8.8.C.’s banning of
“bloody,” has announced that good
taste and popular convention' guide
it when prohibitions are imposed
and that the adjective would be broad-
cast if it were the “natural and normal
expression to use in a particular con-
text.” That is reasonable enough ; but
words change their meanings. In its
infancy A.B.C. broadcast Shakspeare’s
“King John.” Next day its mailbag was
loaded with frenzied protests because one
of the characters was known as- the
Bastard.
, * * * *
“McWaverley” with some Border
chronicles:
The Sir Walter Scott commemorated in the
“Lay of the Last Minstrel” (B. 24/11 / ’43) was
not only a namesake but an ancestor, in the
direct line, of the great novelist. Better known
throughout the major part of his career as
“Auld Wat of Harden” (the castle takes its
name from a cadet branch of the house of
Buccleuch) he was an eminent freebooter in
the days when the Border swarmed with such.
He married another Scott, Mary of that ilk,
from the Dryhope sept of the clan —a noted
beauty known as the “Flower of Yarrow.” She
is the “Lady of Branksome” (Branxholm) com-
memorated in the “Lay”—a stouthearted lass,
fit wife for such a lord. When the larder ran
low at Harden, in place of supper she used to
serve Auld Wat a cold, clean dish containing
a pair of spurs—just as a hint that he should
be up and doing. It was Auld Wat who, bring-
ing back a very large herd of cattle from
Southern byres, spied a huge haystack. He
shook his fist at it. “By my saul,” he declared,
“had ye but four legs ye should not stand
lang there!” Wat had a son, William, who,
falling into the hands of Sir Gilbert Murray
of Elibank, saved his neck from the halter
by marrying Ugly Meg, Murray’s least marriage-
able daughter. That incident is romanticised
in Wilson’s Tales of the Borders, according to
which Wullie made a much better bargain than
he deserved. This Sir William Scott had a
notable grandson, “Beardie” Scott, so called
because he let his whiskers grow in mourning
for Charles I. The author of Waverley was
“Beardie’s” great-grandson.
“I said 'What time would you like the alarm set for? ”


ABORIGINALITIES
“Old-timer”: Though I’d often heard
that classic of the Gippslander who came
to his hut one night and, finding a mes-
sage chalked on the door, ripped the door
off and carried it several miles to get
somebody to read it, I never believed it
until I went hay-digging for old Jim Mor-
row, out from Underbool, in the Vic-
torian Mallee. Jim, a bachelor, was a sun-
burned, taciturn cove who couldn’t read or
write, and who believed strictly in mind-
ing his own business, so much so that
he’d never let on to employee or neighbor
anything about himself. One day, in the
town for stores, the postmaster brought
me a letter for Jim. When I got out to
the place and gave it to him he turned
it over once or twice, then gave me a
secretive sort of look and asked “Can y’
tell where it comes from?” “Yes,” 1
said, pointing to the postmark ; “it’s from
South Melbourne.” “Gripes,” said Jim,
“that’s where me brother lives.” Next
day he left for the city to get his brother
to read the letter to him.
“R.P.W.”; The crows which in a
famous Bulletin drawing flew back-
wards to keep the dust out of their eyes
really had no need to do so. Nature has
provided for the dust problem by fitting
our birds with a sort of inner third eye-
lid, a winking membrane which is re-
peatedly drawn across the eyeball, thus
keeping the eye swept clear of dust and
continually moistened. As the membrane
is practically transparent the bird can
still see when it is drawn oven
the eyeball. The bird moults its feathers,
but not this precious membrane. The
shake’s eyes are also covered with a
horny transparent membrane which
serves the same purpose.
* * * *
“M.U.R.”: A Melbourne “Herald”
writer notes that the beat of paddles is
being heard on the Murray once more,
chiefly from boats hauling barge loads
of firewood and mill logs. He adds that
if skippers could be found more boats
would probably go on the run. The
Hero, which must be 60 years old, is haul-
ing wood for the Victorian railways—
they’re trying to get over the coal short-
age by using wood to get steam up in the
locos and the Alexander Arbuthnot
(shades of Billy Hunt!), of “fairly recent
vintage,” is carting charcoal for gas-pro-
ducers. The ancient and venerable Adel-
aide is back on the job, the Canally has
had her innards torn out to make her
into a barge and the Pevensey, in her
day one of the fastest and strongest, is
still making freight runs. Border rail-
ways and motor speedways flanking the
river almost knocked the water traffic
completely out before the war ; but, like
many other rivermen, I always believed
that, as the Murray country developed and
population spread, the steamers would
come back again. Nothing can compete
with them for the purely riverside traffic,
and their going took away a lot of
life from what should be this country’s
great inland waterway.
* * * He
“MB”: There are some things about
Nature I can’t understand. The rabbit
is about the most perfectly camouflaged
animal about the place, and so long as
it stays frozen by a log or in a clump of
dead thistles it takes a mighty good eye
to spot it. But the instant bunny runs
its bobbing white tail is a mark Blind
Freddy couldn’t miss, though when it’s
running is when the thing needs all the
protection it can get.
“Plankton”: “Lower Tops’l’s” feathered
buccaneer (B. 24/11/’43), judging by its
size and proclivities, is the dark southern
skua, one of the robber gulls. Plumage
blackish-brown above and chocolate
underparts, the latter in mature birds
sometimes turning white. The hooked bill
is black, also the feet. Wings roundish
and rather slow and labored in action,
A killer of young birds and weaker
species. On our Queensland coasts
we have the greater frigate bird,
which similarly is addicted to rob-
bing other sea birds of the fish
they catch. It occasionally becomes
involved in savage aerial clashes with a
skua, which invariably comes off second-
best. The plumage of this frigate bird is
black; the wings are long and pointed ;
the tail decidedly forked. The bill is long,
narrow and hooked, bluish in color, with
an orange-colored gular pouch under-
neath. The flight of this bird is fast and
powerful, and it will hover in the wind
like a hawk. It breeds here, whereas the
skuas are migratory and breed in the
Arctic tundras.
* * * *
“Jemalong Jim”: “Warroo” Walters,
well plastered, awoke in the parlor of
the Forbes (N.S.W.) pub to the sounds
of excitement. He weaved his way out
of the pub and round the corner to where
the fire brigade, assisted by most
of the town’s police force, citizens, small
boys and dogs, was tackling a fire in a
store. “Warroo” eyed the activity blearily,
decided against participation and made
his way along a back lane to the rear of
the pub. Halfway along the lane he
blundered into a cloud of smoke billow-
ing out of the burning store and fell over
something. Getting up, he saw an inert
female form, half its clothing burnt off,
on the ground. “Strike me,” murmured
“Warroo,” grabbed the unconscious girl
by the shoulders, dragged her clear of the
smoke and laid her gently against the
fence. Then, almost sober, he rushed into
“Hoardin' , eh? You ought to be reported!"
a yard, filled a bucket with water and
sloshed it over the victim. She didn't
stir. Then “Warroo” looked closer and
discovered he’d rescued a wax fashion
model that somebody had thrown out
of the burning building.
* * * *
Dog story from the Solomons:
With the first wave of the assault forces to
go ashore at Empress Augusta Bay, Bougain-
ville, went a group of dogs of the First Marine
Dog Platoon. Elsewhere dogs have been used
as guards on airfields and supply dumps, but
these were combat dogs, going into action for
the first time. Employed as message-carriers
and for scouting work ahead of the advanced
patrols they did a splendid job in the early days
of the campaign.
They were 24 in number: three Alsatians —.
the Americans call them Shepherds—and 21
Doberman Pinchers, a hound type with ears
clipped and tail cut at the second joint; black,
with brown points, and, though not so tall, of
similar build and weight to a kangaroo dog.
Alsatians do the message-carrying; Dobermans,
the scouting. Trained to stand fast and point
like a bird dog when they scent - anything un-
usual, the Dobermans spotted many a Jap
sniper in his jungle hideyhole.
Each dog works with two handlers. One
takes it forward to an observation post and
when sent with a message the dog will find the
other man, wherever he may have moved. They
covered a mile and a half through the jungle
in four minutes, and the Dobermans alerted at
50' yards and over. On two occasions they
saved forward companies from running into
ambush. Three dogs were wounded; one was
hit with .25-calibre bullets in the shoulder and
in the rear quarter. They showed a capacity
to recover quickly and to keep working when
wounded. One of the Dobermans, working in
an area subjected to heavy mortar fire, was
shellshocked and had to be destroyed.
There was no precedent for their use or their
training. Lt. Clyde A. Henderson, a chemist
who bred Dobermans in peace-time, did the
job. His first task was to train men to
handle the dogs. In many ways it was a harder
and longer proposition than the training of the
dogs themselves, which, in most cases, took
approximately three months. They had to be
accustomed to battle noises, at first by the use
of large crackers; they were worked on rifle
ranges and during artillery manoeuvres. The
Alsatians were taught to go ahead through a
screen of smoke bombs.
At Puruata and Piva on Bougainville the
animals had the chance to show the value of
their training. All the dogs were found to suffer
a temporary deafness, lasting in some cases
two or three days. If they are kept in action
replacements may necessarily be heavy, but they
have proved their worth in this type of fighting
and earned their battle honors.
* * * *
“Bohemian”: The pakeha was passing
Henare’s whare, and came across Henare
vigorously kicking himself. Watching this
extraordinary procedure were Henare’s
father and Henare’s son, a boy of about
ten. The pakeha inquired the reason for
the self-chastisement. “Well, you see,
boss,” explained Henare, “my father he
put my boy out of te whare, an’ he kick
’im. So I get even wit ’im an’ I kick his
prurry boy!”
* * * *
“Moyhu”: “Horseless Horseman” was
obviously looking for a bite when he
referred to the ’roo rat walking (B.
24 /11 / ’43), but marsupials have done
stranger things. In the treeless country
along the upper Goulburn (Vic.) the sheep
had a rough spin one memorable winter.
Depredations were confined to the night
hours and were evidenced each dawn for
months by disembowelled jumbucks
strewing the landscape. The destroyer
craftily spaced out his killings over half
a dozen parishes, so that armed parties
scouring the country where he had re-
cently operated were often surprised to
learn of fresh destruction during the fol-
lowing night a score of miles distant. The
slaughter gave rise to the usual “Tanta-
noola tiger” stories, and certainly the
condition of the carcasses and the fact
that only the choicest morsels were
sampled suggested the work of one of
the cat group. They finally got him—a
large ’roo sleeping off the effects of an
overdose of mutton in the slaughter-
house of the town’s butcher, whose pet
he turned out to be. The sausage vendor
had to work hard to convince his numer-
ous accusers that he knew nothing of the
hopper’s bad habits, and put the jumi-
cidal impulse down to the fact that the
marsupial for years had sampled large
quantities of bullocks’ blood at the weekly
killings.
* * * *
“Wippegong”: Was inspecting equip-
ment when a dozen or more red-hot
needles hit the back of my leg, and 1
regained the earth just in time to see a
grey body dive to shelter under a bench.
My hostile glare met the stare of a half-
grown possum; it seems that he usually
spent much time in the hip pocket of
the stores sergeant’s overalls and had
mistaken me for his customary host. No
other animal has quite the same manner
as a grey possum. Shared a pisd hut
with one once. By tacit agreement he
would refrain from rattling tins so long
as I left him a slice of bread on the
table ; but on moonlit summer nights he’d
sprint up and down the strip of light on
the floor till in desperation I would arise
and chase him far down the track —a
futile performance, for when I stopped
he’d stop, too, and look round to see if
the game was to continue. Knew a
Murray pub where the dinner gong;
always brought grey faces to holes m
the hessian lining. If only locals sat to
dinner, the possums joined in ; if noisy
strangers were there, they’d vanish. An-
other of the tribe moved into our kitchen,,
to the delight of my niece and to her
mother’s despair, until, after smashing,
spoiling, scattering and gorging beyond
the wildest dreams df normal possums, he
went to sleep in a packet of one of the
ready-to-eat breakfast foods which have
replaced the rugged porridge of our
youth. My sister, diving in for cereals,
grabbed a handful of fur, shrieked, added
a brick, tied up the packet—and a
stranger joined the feline ghosts at the
bottom of the dam.
* v * *
“H.M.F.”: Old Sam wasn’t particu-
lar about his cream cans, and the fac-
tory had returned his cream a few times.
Then he sent in some cream in a can
which had the remains of sour cream
sticking to the sides. It came back, and
when he opened it Sam was amazed to
see a large bar of soap in it. “I can’t
understand it,” he confided to me.
“There's somethin’ terrible wrong going
on down at the factory. They’ve got me
set. / couldn’t have left a bar o’ soap
in it by mistake, because we never use
soap anywhere near the dairy!”
* * * *
“Bo”: Clem Bramley, a dried-up-look-
ing little 65-year-old who had been
prospecting with modest success since he
was 17, had worked out his show at
Bottletop and was heading for Swingle-
bar for his “rest,” as he called it, on the
alluvial flats. En route he put up at the
Fellers’' Arms at Greenhide Point,
tasted a potato-pie which the widow
Moriarty, who owned the pub, had con-
trived with her own hands, and hence-
forth became a permanent boarder. He
spoke once or twice of resuming his
’weight-chasing, albeit in a vague sort of
way, but the concoction of a new pie
seemed to dissipate what dreams he still
had of landing a “Welcome Stranger.”
Soon he transferred his funds to the
township’s bank, and Mrs. Moriarty “put
it on tap” for the township, explaining
that she and Mr. Bramley would shortly
be running in double harness. His new
environment hadn’t altered old Clem’s
lifetime habit of six-o’clock rising; and
on the morning of the Saturday fixed for
the splicing he was missing from his
usual pub-yard haunt at that hour, nor
did he show up for breakfast. The
widow became alarmed. • A search of the
pub and its precincts failed to uncover
Clem, and they were just about to
organise a party to comb the surround-
ing scrub when word came that he was
sitting on the steps of the little church.
The wedding wasn’t to be till 3 p.rn.,
so the puzzled Mrs. M. went forth
to interrogate. Clem’s explanation was
simplicity itself. “Back in 1904,” he said,
“I struck a good payin’ patch at Blinker s
Gully, but I delayed too long in gettm
in with me claim, and another bloke beat
me to it. Ever after that I was always
on the doorstep waitin’ for the office to
open—l reckon no cow’d ever get a break
on me again. An’ nobody will today,
neither! ”
* * * *
“Waratah”: Sydney and its near bush-
lands —right up to the Blue Mountains
—have responded to a bountiful season
with a mantle of bright greens and a
mosaic of brilliant blossoms. Roses ana
other flowers are spilling over garden
fences; wayside blooms that have
escaped from cultivation are romping h*
knee-high grasses, right to the fringe a
the bush ; and wildilowers of every ha •
are crowning sandstone ridges °f tn '
outer suburbs. Best of all is the bus
itself, where the greens of new foliag ,
from emerald to apple, are soft an
dazzling. Most characteristic of all a
the brilliant bronze tips, looking as
they have been varnished, of the
redgum ( Angophora lanceolata), w
bottlebrushes and bloodwoods add sp
did decorative features. TvirpeDf l ! ’
worthy rivals in aspect of the elm
oak, in a smother of creamy bll ? ss ; c „’
and silvery underleaves, complete the p
ture.
* * * *
“P.A.”: Elusive and tantalising, draw
ing the eye from treetop to treetop as
darts among tall turpentines, red ® ls ’
ironbarks and imported camphor la
which favor good coastal soils, a p
N.S.W. white-throated warbler has
the attributes of a ventriloquist,
sprite of the big trees taunts- a t ,
gathers nectar and insects —with a d
rain of seductive notes on a .
cadence, rounded off with a .
flourish. All this is repeated with
gay abandon that it invites inspect * n
the singer—which isn’t so easy, f v f .
enjoyed the joke of watching a
efforts to locate this so-cal lea .
canary” in one tree, while (know & .
habits) I’ve watched his r ? atle . SS if with
in an adjoining one; A midget . t 0
amazing vocal powers, his contril
late-spring and summer S aiet V , eate r
mous, and his value as an ms
hardly less.
SEA PULSE,
Green and cool and dank, ,
By snow streams fed,
Fringed by dripping weed and lank
Overgrowth, hugging the pool’s bed,
Little pools
Run crystal cold and crystal clear,
Inhabited by schools
Of tiny fish with bellies white as fear.
Whither running, little pool?
What tide calls thee?
The world, the world, thou fool,
And the heart-beat of the sea.
TASMANJA.
M. A. LETHLEAN.


THE CRESTED QUAIL.
He’s given to verbosity,
He flies with great velocity,
Indeed with virtuosity,
In spite of his plumposity.
The little crested quail.
His flesh has no acridity.
Aridity,
Acidity,
It just excites avidity,
We wolf him with rapidity,
The little crested quail.
When threatened with hostility,
He shows a true humility,
And runs with great facility
And high manoeuvrability.
The little crested quail..
So listen rnd give ear to me.
Stop running and come here to me,
You little crested quail;
So charming you appear to me,
■ I love to have you near to me,
You bring good luck and cheer to me,
Alive or dead you’re dear to me,
O little crested quail!
MAOR1LAND. ARNOLD WALL.
“P.A.”; I, too, have met that discon-
solate soul the country bloke lost among
the loneliness of noisy city tenements.
Forlorn as a zoo wombat he looked, nos-
talgic for his bush home and familiar
sounds, as kids yelped and adults railed
about him. It was the low chanting of
some doggerel about “wishing to be back
in the ole bush shack” that switched me
over to him and began a confidence born
out of love for places where heat, flies,
dust and work are the daily round. As
an old bush wanderer just back from the
mulga I told him of young green crops
and box-trees in bloom in a wonderful
year. His rapt expression, with a far-
away picture of gum-trees in the eyes,
led me to ask the obvious question: “If
the bush means so much to you, why did
you leave it?” A hard look came into
those erstwhile dreamy eyes. “Mister, I
got a soft job here —that’s all. Is it
likely I’d go back to chippin’ burrs an’
gettin’ out be daylight to milk? Any-
way, a man never had any time to look
at the scenery.” I thought I saw light
and left him to his dreams of gums and
bush tracks and starry horizons that
he’d never seen in reality, and which
would persist until some damn’ fool
came along with questions and broke the
spell. So many bush yearnings end that
way.
» * * *
“G.A.8.”; In mentioning the desperate
struggle of explorer Giles to cross Cen-
tral Australia to the west coast in 1876
(B. 24/11 /’43), “C.C.” has raised an "in-
teresting point regarding the location of
“Gibson’s Desert.” The waterless wilder-
ness to which Gibson gave his name by
dying in it is just where “C.C.” indicated
—-stretching west of the Rawlinson
Ranges and embracing the country
around the Alfred and Marie Ranges.
Practically all of it is in W.A. But many
writers confuse this desert with another
desolate area more than 500 miles to the
east of it, the country north-east from
Oodnadatta. Even Efnestine Hill. This
South and Central Australian desert,
because of its stony crust that has cracked
into squares giving the impression of a
vast tiled floor, has been called the
“Gibber” Desert. I suggest that a simi-
larity of names has led to the confusion.
# * * =*
“Naturala”: On the Swan at Perth is
an extensive enclosure, the Crawley Baths,
The New Rouseabout.
fenced with pickets spaced about 2-jin.
apart. In the days when fish were more
plentiful the early winter floods used to
see this enclosure studded with the float-
ing bodies of dead kingfish, mostly of
51b. and 61b. An old fisherman’s expla-
nation was that early the previous
u, * ,or ' Ao «rAvir»H!J
wi
small, had come up from the sea with
the run of tidal water and slipped through
the pickets into the baths. Finding good
feed in the mullet, which were attracted
into the baths by the oil exuded from
the numerous human bodies, they had
lingered until, when the fresh floodwaters
came down, they were too big to pass
out through the openings between the
pickets. So, allowing that they were be-
tween 21b. and 31b. when they arrived,
which would be about the size capable
of slipping through the fence, they had
just about doubled their weight inside
six months. I have noticed the same
growth in crustaceans. Allowing the eight
months containing the letter R as the
extreme span of a prawn’s life, it grows
with such rapidity that from the tiniest
shrimp in September it attains to the
size of a man’s finger by January or
February, and completes its cycle by
April. My observations lead me to be-
lieve that other marine creatures grow
equally rapidly.
* * * *
“Betcha”: “My worst trouble when I
joined a shearin’ gang,” explained Sleepy,
“was wakin’ up in the mornin’s. Mostly
I had to go without breakfast, because
by the time 1 woke the other blokes were
ready to start work. So I bought an
alarm clock.” “A clock,” I sniffed, know-
ing Sleepy of old. “Should have got
yourself a time bomb.” With what dig-
nity he was capable of the old shearer
produced his Big Ben, wound it and placed
it inside a kerosene-tin at the head of
his bunk. Then silently he crawled be-
tween the blankets. Soon after daylight
next morning an infernal din burst from
the kerosene bucket, and all down the
hut blokes began to roll” over and curse.
All but Sleepy, who comfortably snored
on. In a few seconds the hail of boots
started. They pelted Sleepy up and down,
fore and hind, till he was restored to con-
sciousness by a greasy old-timer. “Told
y’,” Sleepy yawned across at me a few
minutes later, “that ’larm clocks is awright
if y’ know how t’ use ’em! ”
* * * *
“Mat’s Mate”: We’re knocking around
Petersburg (S.A.) when I spot the sort of
a girl I always fall for. She’s a waitress
in a pie-shop, so we go in and order pies.
I try to get a yarn on with her, but she’s
mighty busy, so I order more pies. Mat
eyes me off, but doesn’t say anything.
After a bit I’m no better off, so next time
she comes by say “Couple more pies.”
“Hold on,” says Mat. “Look,” I says,
“the only chance I got is to stay here an’
we gotter keep on orderin’, see?” “It’s
all very fine for you,” he says, “but 1
ain’t barmy over the girl an’ I ain’t barmy
over, pies, either.” “Make that one last,”
I says. So we eat our fourth pie dead
slow, but still I don’t get the chance I’m
waiting for, so when she comes along I
order again. Mat makes a queer sound
and looks a bit sick. “Fine mate you
are,” I says. “First time I ever get y’ t’
gimme a hand with a girl an’ y’ wanter
back out. Eat ’em up!” After that we
leaned back and I sees the boss of the
joint watching me pretty close, so I had
to order more pies. Mat claps a hand
’over his mouth and rushes outside. I’m
right on his tail and grab his arm.
“Look,” he howls, “I ain’t forgettin’ all
y’ ever did f’r me. I always reckoned I
was a bit your way, but, by cripes, we’re
more’n square now. I’ve swallowed
enough pies in that joint t’ even up every-
thin’ I ever owed you.” “Strike me fat,”
I says, “what’s the good o’ goin’ crook
over a few pies?” I leave him and go
back into the pie-shop. Pretty soon I come
nnf a pain, “She’s married” T
n an’ behind
He looked at me, then he got up and went
into the shop. When he comes out he’s
got a parcel, but doesn’t say anything till
we get to our, room, then opens it and
shows me a cold pie. “It’s a souvenir,” he
says, “an’ you’re goin’ t’ eat it. Now!”
It was just as well for him he was
bigger than me.
* * * *
“Aperist”: The odd thing about bee
stings is the way in which a human be-
“I don't care if it is blowing a nor'-easier! This is still one-way traffic!”
comes accustomed to them. The first I
received, three on the left hand, pro-
duced alarming results. Hand and arm
swelled until a condition resembling
elephantiasis seemed imminent; pain so
intense that hot fomentations were ac-
cepted gratefully. And it was four days
before the arm returned to normal. Now,
having been stung scores of times, I work
the hives with sleeves rolled up and bare
hands, receiving many stings but without
suffering the slightest after-pain or swell-
ing. And I am moved also to wonder if
there is any truth in the gag that bee
stings are good for rheumatism, for,
although at an age when a few creaks
should be developing, I am without a
twinge.
* * * *
“Wonk”: Entering town I saw the
down-country buyer’s car pull out- on its
return trip and, guessing that he had
been to look at Smithy’s cows, I dropped
in to see if my hard-fisted neighbor had
at last unloaded his surplus. “No,” he
answered me. “Bill Simpson offered
me twelve quid last week f’r the tops an’
eleven-five f’r the tail. Not bad, only
I reckoned I might squeeze another five
bob on ’em.” “What about the down-
country bloke?” I quizzed. “Him! The
smart alec!” Smith snorted. “Looked
’em over an’ offered me a lump sum f’r
the lot. Gripes, that’s no way t’ buy
cattle!” he went on. “Old swindler
thinks he can dazzle us blokes by talkin’
lump sums, but he slipped a million this
time. I ain’t nobody’s fool.” “Yair,
but what’d it work out at a head?”
Smithy dug up an old envelope and a
stub of pencil, and, muttering to himself,
began laboring over them. Five minutes
later his chair crashed backwards. “Jump-
in’ hellcats!” he bellowed, “that coot
must’ve offered me thirteen quid all
round an’ I wouldn’t take it!”
**• * *
“Elah”: Think “Lower Tops’l” is add-
ing color to his par. (B. 14/10/’43) when
quoting “ill-found whaleboats.” Actu-
ally the majority of the mutton-birders
are taken to the islands of the Furneaux
Group (over 70) by an auxiliary ketch,
and picked up again, together with the
casks of salted birds, at the close of
“birdin’.”
•* * * *
“Anthropo”: In his primitive life the
aboriginal was probably the healthiest
human on earth. With rare excep-
tions death came only in battle or
through old age. For an able-bodied
warrior to die from illness was so un-
common that it was held that it could
only have been brought about by witch-
craft on the part of enemies; so the
avengers went out. But with the whites
came measles, ’flu and other scourges
deadly to primitive peoples. Deaths
became frequent, and a plague of witch-
craft seemed to have taken possession of
the abo. tribes. Often the dying warrior,
convinced that he had been done to death,
begged his friends to avenge him. To
locate these enemies green leaves were
burned in his unfilled grave, the smoke
, J Of rri-winrr in which the
3t member
of the supposedly offending tribe was
killed: which led to reprisal; and reprisal
on reprisal. To all this killing was added
the avenging of the deaths from sickness
that continued to occur. So to the whites
it appeared as though the blacks were a
most bloodthirsty race, though it is prob-
able that when he alone possessed the
land the abo. warrior from year-end to
year-end seldom bloodied a spear except
on game.
“Zake”: Joe Flint was Reddusfs
champion whinger. He was leaning
against the harness shed one morning
growling to Tim Braithwaite about the
cocky’s skinflint missus having fried him
a more three eggs for “brek.” with three
chops, when there came an unusual clat-
tering sound from the tractor which was
being operated by another of the hands.
The sound grew louder, and then there
was a yell. Tim poked his head around
the corner as the hand sang out “F
steerin’s jammed an’ I can’t stc
Tim pushed Joe out of the wa;
second before the tractor took <
corner post he had been leaning
and as he lay sprawled on the g
missed his leg by about six inches. Tim
was white as a sheet as he looked at Joe.
“Gripes, Joe, y’ were lucky I saw it in
time or it would’ve got y’! ” he said when
he could get his breath. Joe looked at
him sourly. “It’s a pity y’ couldn’t mind
y’r own blasted business,” he growled.
“It’s the first time I’ve ever had an oppor-
tunity of gettin’ compensation an’ here
you’ve gone an’ mucked it up. A man
might go for years before an oppor-
tunity comes again!”
* * * *
“Batcher-bird”: The unquenchable
spirit of hospitality and true sportsman-
ship was exhibited at a gala day held
for the benefit of troops in a North
Westralian town .they labelled “Nuthin-
matters.” One chap walked his horse 400
miles to start in a race which he said was
Just a gift for his nag. The “cert.” didn’t
even gain a place, but as cheerfully as
he had arrived the owner made back
along bis long trail.
* * * *
“B. A. Ker”: The day was cold and
extremely wet, but Ted, fighting a losing
fight with the ’flu, stuck gamely to his
saw-bench in the endeavor to complete
an order. About half-past three', how-
ever, he was beginning to see two saws,
so wisely, if reluctantly, he instructed his
youthful offsider: “Draw the fires and
go home. We’ll start again at six sharp
tomorrow.” Getting on his bike he
pedalled through the rain to the pub,
dashed off a rum, then rode home and
flopped into bed without bothering to get
any tea. When he awoke it was daylight
: —and still pouring with rain. A glance
at the clock jerked him out of bed —six
o’clock! Waiting only to bolt a couple
of cold “snags” Ted got out his bike,
rode two soaking miles, only to find the
boiler fire unlit and no offsider. Cursing
the unreliability of modern youth, the
sawyer started the fire, dragged a num-
ber of logs ready and waited impatiently
for the tardy log-holder-upper. Sud-
denly it occurred to him that the morn-
ing had become very dark. But it wasn’t
until the light had almost completely
faded that realisation came —it was still
p.m.; he’d left the mill only three or four
hours earlier! I don’t expect such case-
hardened cynics as “The 0.D.” to believe
this, but it’s Ted’s tale and he sticks to
it—even the bit about a (singular) rum.


Australian, Mercantile, Land & Finance
Company, Limited
(INCORPORATED IN ENGLAND IN 1863)
WOOL, FAT STOCK, STORE AND STUD STOCK,
PRODUCE AND PROPERTY SALESMEN
General Manager for Australia: R. SINCLAIR SMITH.
ADVANCES MADE ON GRAZING PROPERTIES, ON STOCK, AND ON
CONSIGNMENTS OF WOOL, SKINS, HIDES, TALLOW, ETC.
LICENSED AUCTIONEERS, STOCK AND STATION AGENTS.
SYDNEY OFFICE: A. M. MURDOCH, Manager.
ALSO AT MELBOURNE, BRISBANE, NEWCASTLE, WAGGA, HENTY, HAY, MOREE,
TOWNSVILLE, CHARLEVILLE, BUENOS AIRES, LONDON.
GENERAL AGENTS IN NEW SOUTH WALES FOR NORTHERN ASSURANCE CO. LTD
PROVIDES THE SAME COMFORT AND SAFETY AS CITY SEWERAGE
WITHOUT ANY WATER SUPPLY.
Besides Typhoid, Dysentery and serious diseases, many minor affections such as
Septic Cuts, Sore Eyes, Chills and Colds can be traced to unhygienic closets.
THE HYGEIA DISSOLVENATOR
IS A COMPEETE SERF-CONTAINED SANITARY SYSTEM IN ITSELF AND
IS NOT JUST A MODIFIED CEOSET PAN.
All matter Is dissolved and sterilised in the machine and runs off into the soil.
It eliminates closet pans and saves sanitary rates.
IT PREVENTS THE SPREAD OF THE BEOWFEY PEST.
There is no emptying or unpleasant jobs. Any handyman c*n instal it.
NO SMEEES. NO FRIES. NO GERMS.
Approved by the Board of Health and is fully guaranteed. Over 2200 in use.
Write or telephone for illustrated pamphlet,
HYGEIA SANITARY Co. Pty. Ltd Telephone 81032^
Price, £l7/17/6 f.o.r, SYDNEY, including 125% Sales Tax.
Plus 25/- war surcharge; crating, if necessary, 10/0 extra.
Obtainable direct from ns or all leading stores, pastoral firms, etc. Agents all States.
Queensland Pastoral Supplies, Ltd,, Brisbane; Harris, Searfe, Ltd., Adelaide; Victorian
Producers Co-op. Go., Ltd., Melbourne; R. P. Mclnerney and Co., Ltd., Perth.
FOR MINERAL MIXTURES AND LICKS
FOR CATTLE AND DAIRY STOCK
BONE FLOUR
TO REMEDY PHOSPHORUS DEFICIENCY
IN PASTURES AND FODDERS
Tri-cal-os Bone Flour is purely a bone product without admixture
of any other substance. It contains a guaranteed minimum of
32.5 per cent, phosphoric acid and 40'per cent. lime.
All particulars from:—
DAVIS GELATINE, G.P.O. BOX 35835, SYDNEY.
G.P.O. Box 4058, Melbourne,
G.P.O. Box 7X2P, Adelaide.
G.P.O. Box 758 K, Brisbane.
G.P.O. Box 588, Perth.
THE MAN ON
THE LAND
"DON'T WORRY, I'M SENDING IT TO
GRAZCOS."
Fat Lamb Production.
“Jumbuck”: Even with the restricted
market prevailing at present there’s a
quick return when fat lamb raising and
wool production are combined. Points
to remember are:
(1) Climatic and grazing conditions
being suitable, good ewes are 80 p.c. of
the venture’s success. Select big-framed
ewes of an even type, sound and carry-
ing payable fleeces. It’s not advisable
to go beyond second-cross ewes, and
purebred or first-cross are preferable,
selection depending on grazing condi-
tions and the breed of ram to be used.
(2) Use purebred rams of a type that
will “nick” with the ewes. Early-matur-
ing lambs give quick returns, so use
early-maturing rams. The outcome of
breeding should be fat lambs suitable for
export and carrying a good wool.
(3) Lambs should reach maturity in
from 12 to 15 weeks; approved weight is
from 321 b. to 361 b. Heavier types,
brought about by the use of strong-
woolled and bigger-framed ewes and/or
rams, and weighing up to 401 b. and a bit
over, are O.K. provided quality is there,
(4) Concentrate on uniformity. Ob-
viously the more even and larger the line
the quicker and bigger the return. To
attain uniformity the lambing period
must not be prolonged ; after joining the
rams the flock should be yarded periodi-
cally at night and if necessary fresh rams
added.
(5) Old ewes make the best mothers,,
but there’s a limit to their age. After
they’ve served their useful days aged ewes
should be fattened and sold ; they can’t
stand up to dry conditions so well as
younger ewes and their lambs suffer
accordingly.
An even type of ewes, with the rejects
culled out, and selected purebred rams
of one of the early-maturing breeds are
the basis of fat-lamb production
Worms.
“J.R.D.”: “Steve” has got ’em slightly
mixed (B. 24/11 /’43). The black-scour
worm has a maximum length of |in. and
is so hard to recognise that other worms
are often blamed for the damage it does.
The other bloodsucker which “Steve” has
confused with it is the barber’s pole or
large stomach worm, which grows to |in.
in length, and is to be found in the fourth
stomach, whereas most of the black-scour
worms will be found in the small intes-
tine, particularly in the first Bft. below
the fourth stomach.
There are causes of scouring apart
from the small intestinal worm. Prac-
tically any inflammation of the lining of
the intestine will cause scours ; so will
green feed. Where the small intestinal
worm is to blame the scours are very dark
in color when the lambs are on green
feed, but on dry feed the scours will be
much lighter.
The suggested bluestone-nicotine drench
is weaker than that now recommended.
The C.S.I.R. recommendation is to mix
a pound each of bluestone and nicotine
in 2\ gallons water to give a one-fl.-oz.
dose. Weak solutions are all right where
the sheep are very wormy and weak, bht
time and trouble in mustering and hand-
ling are saved by giving the stronger dose;
it is much more effective, and will prob-
ably save a number of future drenchings.
Use a graduated glass measure to check
up on the dose given in drenching funnels.
Overdoses of nicotine can be fatal, and
very often the drench is blamed where
the fault belongs to the funnel or drench-
ing-gun registering incorrectly. One
pound phenothiazine (if you can get it)
should drench 50 lambs between four and
eight months old, which works out at less
than 2d. a dose.
Strong-strawed Wheats.
“Uckle”: The favorable season had
given us excellent wheat crops about
gMandurama (N.S.W.), but torrential rain,
2fin. to 4in. through the district, flattened
much of it, and the heavier and taller
crops were badly lodged. This could have
been obviated or at least very much mini-
mised if grain suitable to the locality
“Mum sez let the roast go—the parson ain't stoppin' f'r dinner after all!"
and particularly to the soil had been
sown.
A few years ago the Agricultural De-
partment recommended the planting of
short, stiff-stemmed varieties, which sel-
dom grow more than 3ft. high, for strong,
rich soil like ours. Baker Bros., of
Lyndfield, acted on the advice. The
storms thoroughly tested the theory.
Lyndfield had almost 4in. of rain. Despite
this, not an acre of their Fedweb and
Ghurka —two recommended wheats —
lodged. The crops may go 45 bushels to
50 bushels an acre. Bordan, another
good-yielder, stood up well. Out of 120
acres under wheat, only four have gone
down on this property, though all over
the district other crops suffered severely.
Bamboo.
“B,”: It makes green fodder for stock,
windbreaks, sand-drift and water-wash
controls. It’s easily grown, flourishes in
clay, poor sand, saline soils or water.
Stock like it. Grown quickly with irriga-
tion, bamboo shoots are succulent and
can be fed to sheep, cows, horses, pigs
and poultry without waste. Don’t let
the animals graze it.
Give the plant some shelter from stock
and it grows quickly from roots, rooted
canes or cuttings. When only a small
clump is wanted, dig out some shoots
with roots attached from an established
clump and place in holes deep enough to
carry three to six inches of soil on top.
When larger areas are planned and root
supplies are limited, grub the clumps out
carefully without damaging the canes or
cutting them from the roots. Subdivide,
leaving a piece of cane to each root.
Dig or plough long furrows to a depth
of four to five inches and place the canes
full length in them. Inside the furrows
dig deeper holes to take the roots at the
base of the canes. Cover the whole cane
with earth and tramp firm.
Planted this way, shoots and roots de-
velop at each node of the cane. When
no roots are available strike lOin. to Min.
cuttings in a nursery bed or on the site.
Place deeply so that two to three inches
show above the surface; ram the soil
tightly. Done in November good shoots
start immediately.
In dry areas bamboo makes strong
growth and holds drifting sands. Use the
variegated type. Plant in rows directly
across the prevailing winds ; place clumps
closely together so that wind can’t rush
through. If the drift’s very bad don’t
cut the canes for fodder except in
extreme shortage ; if it isn’t a big pro-
portion can be used for stock.
Bamboo controls water-washes with its
mass of surface roots. The canes possess
enough elasticity to withstand the rush
of floodwaters, and clumps collect the
debris and silt. Don’t loosen the soil to
plant the clump on the bottom or side of
a creek. Place it op the bottom and cover
the roots with enough brush or straw to
break the force of the water. Grown in
bogs, it lowers the water table and pro-
duces feed. Small clumps thrown into
the mud take root quickly.
Canes not too woody can be fed whole
to sheep, cattle and horses; for cows and
pigs they should be chaffed ; finer chaff
for poultry; chaffed or long they make
good silage.
Intensified Vegetable Growing.
“Pat Ater”: Under the mechanised
schemes introduced to N.S.W. by John
Douglass, Commonwealth vegetable
officer, the small gardener must soon be
relegated to purely local needs. At
Cowra the new methods are already a
proven success, with prolific pea crops,
harvested, canned and distributed by
machinery.
Other centres —at least eight—are to
be set up in N.S.W. for intensive vege-
table growing, and machinery pools are
to be established. Expensive machinery
is to be leased to farmers, and will revo-
lutionise sowing, planting, cultivating and
handling of crops.
It will be virtually impossible for a
crop of greens, pods or roots to fail.
since irrigation is expected to be the
basis of most of the schemes. As in
Arizona (U.S.A.), where water was intro-
duced from Boulder Dam —resulting m
five million lettuces weekly being distri-
buted through the States —climate is no
deterrent. At present some of the areas
are in assured rainfall districts, but irri-
gation will be necessary for expansion.
Small growers could not hope to buy
the implements used in massed farming
methods. That is where the “pool” sys-
tem of hiring and alternate use comes in.
There are machines which sow seed and
distribute fertiliser, plant seedlings at
desired spacing, fertilise the ground, give
water to settle soil and then firm the
young plant in position. Others weed
and cultivate right up against the rows.
It needs little imagination to see the
value of the transplanting device, which
can handle 30,000 plants a day. At
Edgell’s farms near Cowra greens on a
large acreage planted by this machine
are thriving. Spraying and dusting plants
reduce both time and sprays by a tenth
and more. Weeding cost of onions.has
been reduced from £lOO to £5 per acre.
With the harvesting implements peas
are gathered, threshed, cleaned and
canned without handling. An immense
increase in vegetable returns should
result. So far the veges are earmarked
for the troops. There is still need for
increased plantings for civilians in
market and home gardens.
Hints for the Farm.
“Umbiram”: Follow that advice (B.
10/11/’43) by all means, but before buy-
ing your pig tattoo find out whether the
bacon factory will be satisfied with a
tattoo mark. I spent a pound on a tattoo,
and when I used it my factory asked me
to “Please firebrand pigs plainly on day
of sale. Ear-marking is unsatisfactory.
Tattooing is also unsatisfactory.”
“J.G.D.”: When a sick cow has to be
got on to her feet and labor and tackle
are unavailable, dig two “postholes” prop-
erly spaced and roll the cow so that her
front legs go into one hole and her hind
legs into the other. Prop her with a bag
of chaff or straw on each side. When
she regains the use of her legs roll her
out and help her to her feet.
“W.8.C.”: Try brigalow ash for sore
backs and shoulders on horses. Burn a
piece of brigalow timber on a sheet of
iron, collect white ash and sprinkle on
the sores. The sores will heal while work-
ing the horse. The white ash tends to
harjden the skin and does not form a scab
during the healing period like ointment.
Hair will grow and tender skin will
harden. The skin will turn brown where
the sore has healed.
“P.A.”: Lettuce are not usually trans-
planted in summer. But if each small
plant is put out into place with its square
inch of soil and roots undisturbed,
it will go ahead. Settling of the soil
around the roots at the beginning
is important. After that keep the top-
crust well cultivated. Choose a cool day
for the work. Wet conditions that clog
soil are not so good. A little shade, if
available over the first days, will help.
“Pat”: Lettuce and parsley both
prefer a little shade from the after-
noon sun, and they like plenty of cool
farmyard manure in the surface soil, to
both hold moisture and provide*'food.
With a ration of blood and bone also
they romp ahead.
“Graz”: “Steve” has nothing to growl
about while he gets £1 a head for lambs
(B, 1/12/’43). He calculates costs at
ss. 6d., viz., marketing charges 2s. 6d.
and drought feeding 3s. This left him
14s. 6d. net, good money for an animal
only 14 to 20 weeks old. Woollies have
to be kept a year, and then less than
15 p.c. of them net 14s. 6d. per head
after costs are deducted. In dry years
many do not shear enough wool to pay
for hand-feeding alone. If “Steve” finds
14s. 6d. net for lambs in a dry and
17s. 6d. in a good season do not pay,
then his land values or other production
costs have got out of hand.


THE
M.
m
r
T. •*
JOHN IY
(aVSTBRIia I PTY. LTD.
SYDNEY - MELBOURNE - BRISBANE - ADELAIDE - PERTH
t 02j_J079
mmisTEß **
Servfceai^
The Navy, Army, Air Force, and the American Army are
using AGA Cookers in unit kitchens or military hospitals.
AGA Cookers have also been supplied to the Ministry of
Munitions. So any delays which may occur in the delivery
of AGA Cookers for civilian use are due to the urgent
needs of the fighting forces, and the forbearance of our
customers is therefore requested.
AGA, the original heat-storage Cooker, made in Britain,
is still pre-eminent for economy in fuel, continuous depend-
able service, conservation of nutritional qualities and finer
flavours in foods, and for simplicity of operation.
You are invited to call for a demonstration, or write for
illustrated catalogue R 12.
AGA
REGO. TRADE MARK
The Original Heal Storage
COOKER
MADE IN BRITAIN
LEVIN & CO. LTD.
Est. 1852 (Inc. in N.Z.)
45 King Street, Sydney, and
432 Bourke Street, Melbourne.
S.A. Agents: Colton Palmer & Preston
Ltd., Adelaide.
Tasmanian Agents: A. G. Webster &
Sons, Hobart.
W.A. Agents: Malloch Bros, Ltd.,
Perth.
Qld. Agents: Queensland Primary
Producers' Co-op. Assn. Ltd., Brisbane.
Although the Department of War
Organisation of Industry has restricted
the sale of domestic cookers. AGA
Cookers can still be delivered where
a permit from the Department can
be obtained. Write to us for full
particulars.
UNCABLED ADDITIONS
Greatest Swindle in History.
[From a "Reader's Digest” condensation
from Lessons of My Life, by Robert Gilbert
Vansittart, who has had a life career in the
British diplomatic service, much of it connected
with Germany.]
Nothing like the German Reparations
swindle which followed the first World
War has ever been perpetrated in history.
Here are the five broad points of this
strange episode: (1) Germany wantonly
sav%ed the world. (2) The harm done
was irreparable. (3) Germany made no
honest attempt to repair it. (4) Instead,
she resorted to amazing evasions. (5)
These shifts were crowned by the com-
plete triumph of fraud and ill-faith.
The Allies made the first mistake ; in
trying to force the Germans to make
good as much as possible of their devas-
tation they fixed the German Repara-
tions payment too high. Not too high
for justice—the figure actually fixed, 6600
million pounds sterling, was only a
quarter of what the war had cost the
Allies—but for practical purposes. This
error was far-reaching because it gave
German propaganda a grand opening.
The total the Germans paid was esti-
mated by the Reparations Commission at
1038 million pounds sterling, spread over
many years. Of this only 253 millions
were cash payments; the balance was
represented by payments in kind. It
should be noted that the restoration of
northern France alone cost 830 millions
sterling, which, of course, had to be paid
for mainly by France. Unhappy Poland
got not a penny. The mockery of
"Reparations” is clear when it is realised
that Belgium and other devastated terri-
tories had also to be restored out of the
meagre amends made by Germany.
Germany deliberately intended that her
victims should weaken themselves by
paying for the damage themselves, while
she remained as strong as possible to
prepare for the war of revenge she was
already planning. She pretended to be
crippled by the magnitude of her amends.
But in perfecting her arrangements for
her second crime—the present war—she
spent, on her own showing, 8000 million
pounds sterling-eight times as much as
he spent on | eparations for ae first!
There is no end to the Reparations
farce. Among other amazing things that
G erman y included as part of her Repara-
tions payments were the value of Ger-
man colonies, the cost of German dis-
armament, the destruction of German
fortresses, the transformation of German
industry from war to peace production,
These were not Reparations at all; they
Were simply the inevitable losses of a
beaten aggressor.
Did the dupes ever pause to think
that the inflation of 1923 practically
wiped out Germany’s internal debt, while
Great Britain carried one of 7000 million
pounds and France of 250,000 million
francs? Did they ever realise that be-
tween 1924 and 1939 the German national
income was 50 per cent, higher, some-
times nearly 75 per cent, higher, than in
the years just before the last war? In
these years of “want” the individual Ger-
man was thus earning more than he did
i n the palmy days of peace under Kaiser
Wilhelm 11.
By 1925 the German national income
was already 60 per cent, higher than
before the war, and the Government was
able to grant huge subsidies to industry,
which embarked on a great programme
of'modernisation and replacement. Five
years later Germany’s exports surpassed
those of the English for the first time,
and she began boastfully displaying to
visitors her new magnificent buildings,
motor roads, ships and factories,
“Ruined” Germany was in fact pros-
pering and spending. Soon the victors
were actually lending to the debtor money
to pay with. Germany received 1500
million pounds in loans and credits from
her former enemies, six times as much as
the Reparations she paid in cash,
By 1929 Germany had paid 132 million
pounds in cash in 10 years of bickering
—less than 60 per cent, of the war in-
demnity paid by France to Germany
within two years after 1871.
There was a sigh of relief when Repara-
tions came to an end. If they had gone
on much longer the victors might have
been paying Germany, who was getting
very uppish. Yet such is the force of
German propaganda that the world was
persuaded that the whole Treaty of Ver-
sailles was indefensible, and that Repara-
tions had left the “ruined Germany no
alternative but to throw herself into the
arms of Hitler. Few recall that Repara-
tions had been cancelled a year before
Hitler came into power.
The incredible story cannot be con-
cluded without mentioning the present
war, in which the Swindler State imposed
on the nations that she conquered an
annual contribution of 1000 million
pounds in cash. This is four times as
much, in one year, as the total amount
of Reparations that Germany had paid in
cash in a dozen years after the last war.
I say nothing of the wholesale official
plunder and private looting in the over-
run countries, of endless processions of
motor-lorries and railway cars full of
looted goods and materials.
In our midst a number of people are
already organising sympathy for post-war
Germany. One of their inspired cries is
that “this time there must be no repara-
tions.” In a little while we shall be told
there must be no restoration either. Ger-
mans and Germanophiles will be suggest-
ing that Germany should be allowed to
keep at least part of her spoils.
If you accept their doctrine, Germany
has won the war.
Calling Mr. Stalin!
[Extract from a N.Y. “Journal-American”
publication of a U.S. National Broadcasting
Company broadcast by Rupert Hughes, “soldier,
novelist, historian and humorist,” who speaks
over the N.B.C. network every Sunday. The
talk is supposed to be addressed to Stalin.]
“I think you, Mr. Stalin, would
respect us more if we were as self-
respectful and outspoken as you are.
But that’s outside my bailiwick, I just
want to have a brief heart-to-heart with
you about some funny people I’ve met
over here who claim to represent your
views.
“They are American born, but they
call themselves Communists when it’s
convenient —and deny it when it’s con-
venient. Somebody over there sent a lot
of money over here some time ago to
help convert us to Communism.
“They want to overthrow our democ-
racy and substitute the very Communis-
tic Government you threw overboard
when you drove out the Trotskyites.
“When the United States began to
make ready to defend itself from the
growing menace of Hitler you were an
ally of his—you remember. Of course,
you were merely trying to hold Hitler
off long enough to make ready for his
surprise attack —and your surprise de-
fence, But your Communists here didn’t
know that. They thought you loved
Hitler. So they did their utmost to pre-
vent us from getting ready to meet the
peril. They held up ships, they held up
trucks, they fomented strikes, they beat
up people who wanted to work, they
screamed against preparedness, they even
picketed the White House as a protest
against the President’s lend-lease policy,
which has since come in so handy for
you. They never dreamed that while
they were joyously crippling their despised
old Uncle Sam they were also crippling
their dear Uncle Joe.
“Imagine their embarrassment when
suddenly Hitler turned on you and you
became our ally instead of his! No,
don’t try to imagine the embarrassment
of the Communists here, because noth-
ing embarrasses them.
“It does not embarrass them in the
least to be as loud now in screaming for
lend-lease, second front, all-out sacri-
fice as they screamed against them when
they thought you and Adolf were really
buddies.
“Such people are making the vast
majority of us Americans pretty hick at
our hummocks, Mr. Stalin. They make
no friends for you.
“We let them live. It’s our way over
here—freedom of speech. We can
call almost anybody almost anyfi
especially if we smile when we sa
We never shoot people here for poli
reasons. We shot nobody after our 1
Civil War. We didn’t shoot a single


• #
ROOM
o
■
§§§
-:
«
p -
The family has
been growing up during the
war years . . . and when peace comes you’ll be
busy fixing that extra accommodation which you can’t
build now because the exigencies of war must first be
met. But with the coming of peace be able to put
your plans into effect—with Masonite. That’s the ideal
material for modernising the house, building additions
economically and easily.
PLAN FOR 1T...
SA VE FOR IT*..
AND BUILD IT WITH
MASONITE PRESDWOOD...TEMPERED PRESDWODO...TEMPRTILE...QUARTRBOARD DE LUXE
Manufactured by MASONITE CORPORATION (AUST.) LTD. from wood fibre.
Distributors: THE COLONIAL SUGAR REFINING CO. LTD.
(Building Materials Division)
SYDNEY . . . MELBOURNE . . . BRISBANE . , . ADELAIDE . . . PERTH
* INVEST YOUR SAVINGS IN WAR BONDS FOR POST-WAR USE
*
RUPTURE
Mr* oat* S _ NO SPRINGS
ie latest invention of Dr.
Barrere is the result of 40
irs’ practice and improve-
ments. Stupendous success
of new method of control.
Ihe NEO-BARREEE acts
like the hand when placed
Bat upon the orifice. You
will at once without
effort and in all move-
ments hold the intes-
tine in its cavity-
PREE LITERATURE.
Write To-day for
BARRERE DISTRIBUTION CO.
(Dept. 2K), 343 ELIZABETH ST., SYDNEY.
6
0
C 5
BRITISH
BUILT
FOUNTAIN
PEN
'Tf-
-2 TYPES! Supplies are still
coming through, and we are
making every effort to dis-
tribute evenly "SUPREME"
and "DIPLOMA."
■■■■■
SSSBffl
m
m
\mk
&
m
-a#
&
pv
w
10 for 1/1
20 for 2/2
fp
1
Save * or Slave. Put
all you've got into £lO
National Savings Bonds.
ť
in World War I. We haven’t executed
a spy in this war except those few Ger-
mans who came over in a submarine to
blow up the war plants our American
Communists did so much to slow up.
“The story is going about now that the
Communists are going to change their
names and call themselves the American
People’s party, or something. But they’ll
still smell like American Communists,
Our nostrils are weary of them. Mr.
Stalin, what would you do if several
thousands of Russian-born men and
women should start a movement to over-
throw your Government and substitute
a democracy like ours? If they called
themselves ‘Americanists’ and insisted
on putting up Candidates for all the
offices—including your own, Mr. Stalin?
And if they sneered at all literature and
art that was Russian instead of Ameri-
canist?
“And if they invaded your schools and
colleges, poisoned your young people
with discontent and distrust? And
stirred up your sixty - hour -a - Veek
laborers to strike for 40 hours or less and
double pay for extra hours? And if they
picketed the Kremlin and denounced you
and the most ardent patriots as foul old-
fashioned degenerates? What would you
do, Mr. Stalin, to those Russian-born
Americanists?
“Is that you laughing, Mr. Stalin? Or
is it a roar of static? Did I hear you
say ‘Liquidate ’em’?
“But we don’t liquidate people here.”
Dragnet Digest.
(Condensed from various acknowledged
sources .)
The historical and other claims that the Rus-
sians have to the Baltic States and the
other parcels incorporated in the Soviet Union
in 1939 and 1940 are realised in Washington.
But the view here is, and was, that, if Ger-
many is defeated and disarmed, and kept dis-
armed by continuous inspection, the Russians
will not need to be so sharply concerned about
their strategic frontiers. — Washington corres-
spondent; “Free World.”
* * * *
British officials in Washington are suggesting
privately that Britain will be glad to give U.S;
joint use of air and naval bases on British
territory after the war if U.S. will join in agree-
ments to guarantee the peace of the world. —
“United States News.” i
* * * *
History may record that the war was won in
Africa, where vanished Hitler’s grandiose hope
of closing the Mediterranean, driving through
the Near East to cut the Russian supply line
on the Persian Gulf and thence triumphantly
on to his rendezvous with the Japanese con-
querors in India. — N.Y. “Times” columnist
Arthur Krock.
* * * *
General George C. Marshall, U.S. Chief of
Staff since the summer of 1939, is perhaps the
ablest military executive the United States has
ever produced. In the opinion of many of his
most competent contemporaries in all services he
is the best military strategist on the Allied side.
He has won the (confidence of the President,
Congress and the leading Washington corre-
spondents alike, to a degree without precedent
in recent history. He is regarded with the
highest esteem also by Prime Minister Churchill.
—Ernest K. Lindley; “Free World.” \
v * * *
Information reaching Washington leaves no
doubt that Rumania and Hungary and prob-
ably Bulgaria want to get out of the war as
quickly as possible and that the Finns, who
are in the most difficult position of all, yearn
for a way out of their dilemma. Turkey natu-
rally is concerned about the future of the Dar-
danelles and interested in obtaining a more
defensible European boundary. But it is be-
lieved in Washington that Turkey will formally
enter the war whenever the signal is given
from Washington and London. The accession
of Portugal is possibly less valuable now than
it would have been nine months ago, when the
blind spots of the Allied anti-submarine patrol
had not been covered by escort aircraft-carriers.
Sweden’s future course obviously depends
largely on whether Allied forces invade Norway.
It is not infrequently predicted in Washington
that within a few months there will be no
neutrals left, except probably Switzerland and
possibly Argentina. Switzerland is valuable to
all belligerents for the exchange of information
concerning prisoners of war, etc. Argentina has
completely “missed the boat.” What she does
is no longer of consequence to the Allies and
probably cannot retrieve any of the prestige
she has lost. — Washington correspondent;
“Free World.”
* * * *
The Japanese Empire cannot exist without
ships. The home islands alone have not the re-
sources to wage war. The Japanese Govern-
ment knows this, but its frantic efforts to build
new shipping have not been sufficient to replace
losses. There is no more enemy shipping to be
seized. Around the Solomons Japan is using
barges, but these can serve only coastal traffic,
and they are being sunk by the score. Efforts
to open land routes to Burma, and so ease the
strain on shipping, have also failed. Meanwhile
our submarines range deep into Japanese home
waters, even crippling the ferry service to the
Chinese coast, and in the South-west Pacific
our ’planes wreck hundreds of enemy ships in
harbor. — N.Y. “Times.”
* * ♦
In an interview with this correspondent Mr.
Curtin made if clear that he was not suggesting
strategy, but gave assurance that Australia was
prepared to send masses of her men beyond
her own immediate defence zone, when and if
the moment comes. Since, by law, the Aus-
tralian militia is prevented from fighting be-
yond the immediate area of this nation, Mr.
Curtin apparently referred to participation by
the Australian Imperial Force volunteers and
other special volunteer units that fought in
Egypt and Libya and whose fellow-volunteers
were captured in Singapore.— Frank L. Kluck-
holm; from Canberra to N.Y. “Times.”
* * * *
“Joseph Stalin, of Russia, stands forth as the
greatest isolationist on earth. He takes refuge
in saying he is for Russia —nothing more. I
wish we had some of our statesmen saying
‘We are for America.’ ” — U.S. Senator John-
son.
* * * *
The Queen Mary is shuttling fighting men
across the seven seas, and bringing back
prisoners who do not thank her for the voyage.
Canada, England, Egypt, Capetown, Sydney,
Ceylon, Singapore—she seems to have been
everywhere, and mostly in the nick of time.
The Italians boasted that they torpedoed her in
the South Atlantic. They didn’t. The Nazis
plotted in Brazil to do the same. They failed.
Once she sped right through a wolf pack of
25 U-boats before they could launch a missile.
Again, when she was loaded with American
troops, a giant wave tipped her within five
inches of capsizing. Through it all she has
stuck to her timetables, facing every danger
serenely, getting more and more soldiers to the
battlefronts. They say that no ship in the
Allied navies, not battleship nor cruiser, has
proved so indispensable.— N.Y. “Times.”
* * * «
The U.S. Navy Department has disclosed (1)
that the airplane-carrier strength of the Japanese
“may approach our strength at the moment”;
(2) that we of the United States “have underesti-
mated the airplane productive capacity of the
Japanese” and that they have shown “a some-
what astounding ability to replace their losses”;
(3) that the reported production of airplanes
by the Japanese at 750 a month was a “mini-
mum” figure; (4) that the Japanese are keeping
their airplane-carrier forces in northern waters,
nearer to the Japanese mainland and farther
away from the South Pacific, where there has
been a tendency to avoid naval battle of any
proportions. The foregoing does not corre-
spond with the impressions the public has re-
ceived from the headlines in recent months. The
belief has been built up that a war of attrition
is being fought against which Japan cannot pos-
sibly hold her own because of our superior air
power.— N.Y. “Sun” Washington correspondent.
* * * *
There were eloquent advocates of the union
of Great Britain and the self-governing col-
onies under a federal constitution. Yet the
movement for federation within the British
Empire failed, and its place was taken by the
Commonwealth of British Nations, which is
not federalism at all. Therefore, I raise the
question: If the British peoples, the most
highly endowed peoples, politically, in the
world, with their infinite ability for compro-
mise and for adjustment, could not form a
federation of Great Britain and the Dominions,
how can our promoters of world federation
expect to bring it about in defiance of the
political limitations of this varied human race?
— Maj.-Gen. David Prescott-Barrows; “Jour-
nal American.”
* * * *
Japan is creating such economic misery in
the outer zone of her empire that the first
necessity will be economic rehabilitation rather
than political reconstruction. It is more likely
that the appeal which will carry the most
weight among subjugated peoples will not be
the Four Freedoms in abstract, but freedom
from want in particular.—“ Atlantic Monthly.”


Divorce Notice.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW SOUTH
WALES — In Divorce.
TO MRS. EILEEN BERYL KNIGHT (also known
as Mrs. Eileen Beryl Martin) late care of Mrs.
Cameron “Aranui” via Yelarbon Queensland. —TAKE
NOTICE that ALBERT WILLIAM KNIGHT has filed
a Petition of Divorce No. 2955 of 1943 on the ground
of desertion without just cause or excuse for three
years or upwards If you wish to defend you may
enter ah appearance at the Divorce Office Supreme
Court King Street Sydney by the Twenty-ninth day
of February One thousand nine hundred and forty-
four and obtain a copy of the petition without
charge from T. W. GARRETT CHRISTIE & BUCK-
LEY Solicitors 14 Martin Place Sydney.—(l.s.) C.
K. BODY, Registrar.
IN MIDDLE-AGE-
KIDNEYS OFTEN
NEED THIS HELP
Many people going into middle age note a
slowing down of the healthy bladder action of
youth. While this is to be expected to a degree,
if passage is frequent and scanty, accompanied
by burning and smarting. Nature may be warn-
ing that there is something wrong with your
kidneys or bladder.
The kidneys are Nature’s chief way of taking
the excess acids and waste out of the blood.
Most people pass about 3 pints a day or about
3 pounds of waste.
An excess of acids or poisons in your blood,
when due to funtional kidney disorders, may
be the cause of nagging backache, rheumatic
pains, leg pains, loss of pep and energy, getting
up nights, swelling, puffiness under the eyes,
headaches and dizziness.
Don’t wait! Ask your chemist or store for
DOAN’S BACKACHE KIDNEY PILLS, used
successfully by millions for over 40 years. They
give happy relief and will help the 15 miles of
kidney tubes flush out poisonous waste from
your blood. Get DOAN’S BACKACHE
KIDNEY PILLS to-day. They are a special
remedy for the kidneys and will give quick and
lasting benefit. Old and young alike can take
DOAN’S BACKACHE KIDNEY PILLS with
perfect safety.
FAMOUS SAUCES BY
LEA & PERRINS SAUCE
LEA & PERRINS TOMATO SAUCE
H.P. SAUCE
KEEP ON BUYING
WAR SAVINGS CERTIFICATES
GET THE BEST FROM YOUR CLIP. READ “
SHED MANAGEMENT.” 3s. 6d., POST FREE :
WOOL-CLASSING AND
, “BULLETIN” OFFICE.
‘There were Reservoirs
and Grand Canals..
'T saw a vision in days gone by and would dream that dream again —
Of the days when the Darling shall not back her billabongs up in vain.
There were reservoirs and grand canals where the dry country had been
And a glorious network of aqueducts and the fields were always green.
—Henry Lawson.
That vision of a glorious future for Australia can become a reality in the
peaceful days to come. Back from the fighting fronts and with an amazing
knowledge of modern tractors and earth-moving equipment, our men could
trap, into great dams, billions of gallons of water now flowing needlessly to the
sea. Then with similar equipment they could build canals and ditches to take
this water to millions of thirsty acres. So would our land become a land of
plenty ... a land fit for heroes to live in. All this can be done with Caterpillar
Tractors and Waugh & Josephson Earth - Moving Equipment at a fraction of
the cost and the time of older methods.
1 1 m
*>))
fiwn Ski
i
Laying a pipe line with Caterpillar
Tractor and Sideboom
i
ip
Wmmm m Wm* l
CATE IJ.I li.*.®
. -„»e TBiCTORS °
C2l T E B." 1 “ joSEPHSO „ tABTH-MOVINS »«■'««'
T.*eTo« t^ , 13!6
uu&iiGH & JOSEPHSON rT\.„
Sf Peion Sidney. ' P i on tdd« 3 St* South' Melbourne
*“*'• S ‘" T|F , CATES
WAR SAVINGS
BUY
SERVICE DEPARTMENT.
Wants.
To buy Sand, Wind and Stars (Antoine de
St. Exupery). —3407.
Information Sought.
Description of /card’s test ?
A solution of fluorescm (lgm each of
resorcinphthalein and sodium bicarbonate dis-
solved in 8 c.c. of water) is injected. Where
circulation has ceased no local discoloration of
the tissues in the neighborhood of the in ection
results. If, however, the circulation still con-
tinues a yellowish-green discoloration appears
round’the part injected, and the fluorescm may
be found in the blood fit some distance fiom trie
injected part if an incision is made into the
skin By soaking some white silk threads in
the blood and later boiling the threads in a
little water a greenish-colored solution results
and the threads assume a green color.
Formula of an adhesive that will stick rubber
to steel i*
Either’ of these should do: (1) Pulverised
shellac dissolved in 10 times its weight of
cloudy ammonia. In three days the mixture will
be of required consistency. (2) Tung oil 100
parts, sulphuric acid (sp. gr. 1.84) six parts.
Add the acid to the oil slowly and carefully
while stirring and then allow to stand for 24
hours. The mixture is applied to the steel sur-
face with a brush, after which the rubber is
placed against the steel. Linseed, castor or
rosin oil can be substituted for the tung oil. At
no time should the mixture be allowed to come
in contact with hands or clothing; if it does,
rinse immediately with water containing car-
bonate of soda.
Method of softening hard paint? Would it
do for hard enamel?
Break it up with a putty knife, pour turps
over, leave three or four days and then mash
to a paste. Add raw linseed oil and stir until
liquid enough. If this won’t work, the paint
is irreclaimable. This method may do for
enamel but the solvent might be different; ask
at any paint shop.
Method of polishing tortoiseshell? .
The shell which polishes best is hawksbill;
the others give poor results. Steep in boiling
water; then wash in rain water just browned
with vinegar. Wipe dry, and polish till smooth
with jewellers’ rouge or a soft, dry rag. Finish
with the bare hand.
Particulars of England v. Victoria cricket
matches played in 1920?
Only one England v. Vic. match was played
in 1920—Nov. 12-16. Vic. scored 274 (Lampard
111) in the first innings, and 85 in the second.
England closed the first innings at three for 418
(Hobbs 131 and Hendren 106). Rhodes took
six for 39 in Vic.’s second innings.
Brief Answers.
Long Jack: You may file a notice of objec-
tion to the assessment within 60 days after ser-
vice. Forms of notice may be obtained from
Commissioner of Taxation... .E.J.C.: (1) If
the fence is in disrepair either owner can call
on the other to assist in equal proportions in
repairing it. (2) Yes G.H.N.: Process is
a trade secret 8.J.P.: The prize should be
divided between the first two S.W.: Women
are accepted as diplomatic cadets; apply to
the Secretary of Department of External Affairs,
Canberra L. 0.: The Mitchell Library has
a pamphlet {History of the Discovery of the
First Payable Goldfield, Ophir, in Australia,
1871) and some newspaper articles on the sub-
ject G.T.0.: (1) There are several chemical
branding fluids on the market, but they are not
nearly as good as firebrands. (2) Affected eyes
should be irrigated firstly with normal saline
(one teaspoon in a pint of warm water), finish-
ing with a 2\ p.c. zinc sulphate solution (one
tablespoon in two pints of water). Traat twice
daily until all signs of the discharge disappear.
B.J.: The rangefinder was invented by
Stroud and developed by the firm of Barr and
Stroud. Australians have submitted 69 ideas
for rangefinders W.F.: A property of 1000
sq. miles has an area equivalent to a rectangle
50 miles long by 20 miles broad. A property
1000 miles square has an area of 1,000,000 sq.
miles, and its area is that of a square with
sides of 1000 miles.
Answers to Correspondents
Name and address must appear on the MS. No
liability is undertaken re contributions voluntarily
submitted; and no MS. will be returned unless
stamps accompany. MS, should be addressed to
the Editor,
MJ.H.: Not worth all those words....
J. : An R.A. takes a housepainter’s j9b.
Original, but unconvincing C.T.: Airy trifle
too trifling G.S.: Admire your tactful re-
ticence, but the yarn is not our meat
R.A.D.: Dreams aren’t like that... .V.C.;
Wouldn’t even make a four-line par.....
A.W.F.: Jumping Jeep had too little weight.
. ...0.C.M.: Could you make a sonnet of it?
. ...R.N.W.: “Fragment” is no more than
that 8.C.: “Enchantment” came close; too
many conventional poeticisms K.W.: Try
a daily S.V.L.: Melodramatic and senti-
mental M.H.: One among scores
K. : Call again... .S.H.G.: End’s flat....
A.L.: Epigrams need to be neater 0.5.:
Very nearly 8.5.: Genuine feeling, anyhow.
J.McK.: You’re taking the job too easily.
L.H.C.: Steady on the alliteration....
L. : Atmosphere very pleasant; technique
elementary T.D.: Needs much polishing
H.M.W.: That theme has whiskers to its
ankles L.W.: Promising L.L.: Keep at
it C.R.: It’s not verse, but you might' write
lively prose W.H.C.: There’s a spark in it.
.... R.G.N.: Get away from owls and bats.
A.R.S.: Should score elsewhere.
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC)
CORRESPONDENTS.
H.N.C.: Your bull looks like a horned
Pomeranian R. 8.: The shearer has the same
grip on the sheep as the flapper on the wheel
of a car she’s learning to drive.


6
WHEN YOUR EXECUTOR DIES
-WILL YOUR ESTATE SUFFER
If you appoint an individual as Executor his
death, absence or carelessness may mean loss
and inconvenience to those whom your Will
is designed to benefit.
To ensure that the administration of your
Estate shall be safe and permanent, appoint
The Trustees Executors and Agency Com-
pany Limited. For more than 65 years this
company has devoted itself solely to the
administration of thousands of estates. By a
short codicil to your Will you may, if you so
desire, name the company as Executor or
join it with others as Co-Executor. Charges
are fixed and moderate.
Consult your Solicitor or write for Free Booklet.
S
THE TRUSTEES EXECUTORS
AND AGENCY COMPANY LTD..
Incorporated In Victoria in 1878.
1 BLIGH ST., SYDNEY, and at 401 COLLINS ST.,
MELBOURNE.
Capital {paid and uncalled) and Reserves, £960,643.
BOARD OF DIRECTORS:
Sir Alexander Stewart (Chairman): D. Stuart Murray; Sir Claude
Reading, K.C.M.G.; Sir Lennon Raws, C.8.E.; G. S. Colman, C.8.E.;
Sir Alan Newton.
' NEW SOUTH WALES DIRECTORS;
Sir Claude Reading, K.C.M.G. (Chairman); W. D. Stewart; R. T. Hilder.
N.S.W. Manager: J. W. Russell French.
General Manager: W. Sydney Jones. Manager; K. M. Hughes.
SEND YOUR
ENQUIRIES For-
mining MACHINERY
STAMP BATTERIES
CONCENTRATORS
MAGNETIC SEPARATORS
AMALGAMATING TABLES
WATER FILTERS
EVERLASTING VALVES
ELECTRICAL EQUIPMENT
MOTORS AND SWITCHGEAR
GARBAGE DESTRUCTORS
“RENDROCK” AND OTHER
EXPLOSIVES
ALL CLASSES OF TOOLS
GUTHRIDGE Pty. Limited,
10*12 Parramatta Road, Camperdown,
Sydney.
Queensland
Insurance Go.
Ltd.
Head Office:
Pitt & Bridge Streets,
■ Sydney.
The Largest
Australian Company
Transacting
Fire, Marine, Accident, House-
holders’ Comprehensive, Worker*
Compensation, Boiler Explo*i° n »
Machinery Breakdown, Aviation,
etc.
The WILD
CAT
COLUMN
G. J. Coles & Co.
, Dividends >,
Pref. To Re-
June,' Profit. 8 p.c. Ord. serves. Deficit.
£ £ £ £ £
1933.104,135 12,000 10 p.c. = 56,525 35,610 154.449
Written off, £5OO .. .. -• 153,949
1934.109,777 12,000 10 p.c. = 70,860 26,917 180,866
Premiums on new shares, £22,500 .. 203,366
1935.146,445 12,000 12* p.c. = 89,700 44,745 248,111
Premiums on new shares, £9630 .. 257,741
Bonus scrip issued, £72,360 (£54,000
from reserve against goodwill, not
treated as an asset -herein) .. .. 185,381
1936.168,925 12,000 12* p.c. = 99,856 57,069 242,450
Share premiums, £192,230 .. •• 434.680
1937.240,028 12,000 18f p.c.=171,224 56,804 491,484
Bonus scrip issued, £97,840 .. .. 393,644
1938.261,408 12,000 17* p.c.=188.547 61,061 454.705
1939.274,704 12,000 18J „ „ 201,800 60,904 515,609
1940.278.047 12,000 17* „ „ 209,871 56,176 571,785
1941.230,182 12,000 17* ~ „ 226,015 —563,952
1942.241,610 12,000 12* „ ~ 151,440 68,-170 632,122
A.R.P. provision, £17,600.. .. .. 614,522
1943.175,569 12,000 10 p.e.=129,152 34,417 648,939
As the war continues, demands of the
Allied fightirfg" forces set ever harder
tasks for the rest of the community,
whose contribution to the war effort lies
through voluntary loan subscription and
strict observance of the many controls
and restrictions imposed for the purpose
of cutting down civilian consumption and
liberating maximum resources for war
needs. The supply lines which keep the
fighting men armed, fed, clothed,
equipped, munitioned and mobile stretch
back beyond advanced beachheads and
island bases to the factory, farm, shop
and home.
Like most other traders, the large
variety chain stores are feeling the pinch
of the big changes in the nature and
direction of production and consumption
thus brought about. Coles’s sales con-
tinued on the upgrade until May, 1942.
Then clothes rationing—drapery used to
comprise about one-third of the business
—gave takings a jolt, partly because of
compulsory restriction of purchases and
partly because o£ a coupon-conscious
public’s preference for higher-priced
goods, for which high wages and full em-
ployment have provided the money.
Sales have been affected, too, by mobili-
sation of women in the services, where
stockings, underwear, etc., are ordinary
items of issue, which are replaced when
worn out. The crockery and chinaware
section was hit by import control and
exchange and shipping difficulties. And
many cheap household lines and inexpen-
sive frills which the co. used to sell have
disappeared from the market altogether,
owing to conversion of manufacturing
plants to production of urgently required
war goods. Service and man-power call-
ups, including diversion of woman-power
to war work, have intensified staffing
problems—a common experience.
Since, under control, demand is no
longer equated to supply through prices,
for which a general “ceiling” was estab-
lished by the Government in April last,
the problem for the management is one
of overhead. Costs, however, are only
indirectly harnessed by controls, and not
thereby altogether prevented from rising.
Not only has any increase in costs to be
absorbed within the business, but many
fixed items of overhead, such as lease-
hold rents which figure largely in Coles’s
accounts, now take a bigger bite out of
lower gross earnings from reduced turn-
over. In an endeavor to sustain turnover,
vacant counters have been converted into
fruit and vegetable marts. But these and
other food lines carry narrow margins
and serve mainly to lighten the incidence
of overhead. It was rising prices and
stock strictures that prompted the co. to
lift its self-imposed topline limit of 2s. 6d.,
which had been adhered to since the be-
ginning in 1921.
The contraction in the co.’s turnover
last term was over £1,000,000 —the first
thing of its kind that has happened since
1919. After striking off £104,581 (down
£12,881) for depreciation of sundry fixed
assets, but including £25,427 (up £79) set
aside against depreciation of freeholds,
net earnings were £66,041 lighter at
£175,569. That leaves out of the reckon-
ing £17,600 A.R.P. expenditure consid-
ered irrecoverable and written off against
a reserve created for the purpose. The
£175,569 was enough to pay the pref.
div. and show 12.6 p.c. on ord. capital,
as against 17.7, 16.9, 22.1 and 24.4 p.c.
back to 1939. The div., which dropped
from p.c. to 12i p.c. for the previous
term, was lowered to 10 p.c.
Reduction in the volume of business
is further reflected in balance-sheet move-
ments :
1939. 1941. 1942. 1943.
Capital £ £ £ £
Ord. . . 1,094,528 1,291,515 1,291,515 1,291,515
Pref. . . 150,000 150,000 150,000 150,000
Overdraft . . 161,273 256,674 11,212
Creditors . . 116,565 139,495 177,931 94,796
Mortages, etc. 197,000 182,000 182,000 182,000
Employees’
funds .. 37,585 40,666 35,963 34,797
Tax reserve. . 91,057 164,829 151,000 146,433
Freeholds .. 1,085,506 1,216,581 1,246,475 1,230,851
Leaseholds . . 252,917 294,563 264,276 235,770
Fittings, etc. 378,405 461,310 423,877 379,581
Stocks . . 532,514 854,918 988,592 755,701
Debtors . . 10,875 12,537 16,279 20,470
Cash, etc. . . 69,208 33,905 34,571 14,811
A contraction of £232,891 in stocks was
accompanied by a reduction of £245,462
in the overdraft and of £83,135 in the
amount coming to trade creditors. Re-
serve stocks in most departments have
now practically disappeared, the chairman
says. Including the tax reserve —some or
most of which may be genuine profit—
with liabilities, the year’s improvement in
the more or less liquid surplus (£321,744)
was £85,870.
William Adams and Co.
, Dividends
Pref. To-Re-
April, Loss. 7 p.c. Ordinary. serves. Deficit.
£ £ £ £ £
1933.. 10,424 Nil Nil 20,192
Profit.
1934.. 932 Nil Nil 932 19,260
1935.. 8,287 Nil Nil 8,287 10,973
Reserves.
Capital written off, £22,500 .. .. 11,527
Apparent adjustment book values,
£11,176 351
1936.. 22,031 7820 f 3 p.c. = 4,687 9,523 9,874
6.56 p.c.
1937.. 28,344 1637 6.56,, „ 10,313 16,394 26,263
7 p.c.
1938.. 34,389 1750 10.1 „ „ 15,938 16,701 42,969
1939.. 34,068 1750 10.1 „ „ 24,389 7,929 50,898
1940.. 34,270 1750 lt).l „ „ 24,791 7,729 58,627
1941.. 21,767 1750 10.1 ~ „ 24,792 63,852
1942.. 40,195 1750 10.1 ~ „ 24,792 13,653 67,505
1943.. 40,094 1750 10.1 ~ „ 24,792 13,552 81,057
f 54 years.
Engineering and electrical supplies,
lubricants and various other lines of
hardware comprise the principal stock-in-
trade of William Adams. All of them
important items in our present war
economy, the co. has been able to keep
up the aggregate of its stocks even if not
the former variety, A year ago it was
reported that support from overseas
continued to be surprisingly good, and
since then lend-lease stuff has no doubt
come the co.’s way in considerable
quantities. Local sources of supply
have become more important also under
the stimulus of war-time partial isolation.
Head office is in Sydney, and there are
branches in all other mainland States and
in London. Branches have been de-
clared protected undertakings. The war
has coincided with a well-defined
recovery trend in the co.’s affairs
that was apparent before the con-
flict started. From the collapse of
the boom following the 1914-18 war
until the clearing away of the wreckage
of the 1929-33 depression the business
only limped along. During this period
ord. shareholders went without their divs.
on seven occasions ; there was a writing-
off of capital in 1923 and another in
1935. From the latter operation on-
wards the business has made steady pro-
gress, with a setback (occasioned by
underestimation of income-tax liabilities)
in profit-earning in only one year. Since
1935 ord. divs. have “kveraged 8.8 p.c.
p.a., with a steady 10.1 p.c. over the past
six years.
Last term, after providing £7050 (down
£49) for depreciation of plant and allow-
ing for slight reserve movements and un-
specified taxation, the net profit was £lOl
lower at £40,094, representing 15.6 p.c. on
ord. capital, allowing for the prefs,, com-
pared with 15.6, 8.1, 13.1 and 13.2 p.c.
for the three preceding years. In all, it
was a highly satisfactory showing.
The co. has been fortunate in securing
new premises in Brisbane, built to order
on a freehold at the corner of Stanley
and Peel streets. South Brisbane. Only
a minor effect of this has been noticeable
in balance-sheet figures:
1938. 1941. 1942. 1943.
Paid capital.. £182,500 £270,000 £270,000 £27-0,000
Inabilities . . 270,287 167,614 245,074 215,087
Freeholds . . 109,085 109,085 111,934 116 999
Plant, etc. . . 21,506 22,789 21,453 17 619
Stocks . . 196,508 171,004 190,698 222,490
Book debts . . 168,859 195,890 240,447 '202 290
Cash, shares, etc. 10,245 19,166 31,516 23,’860
Last term freeholds rose £5065, making
a total increase of £7914 in two
years.' Plant moved down £3834, and
at £17,619 is not a large item. Main
movements were in liquids. Stocks
increased £31,792, while book debts
dropped £38,157, suggesting that the
Government is a substantial customer
these times. The co. itself owed £29,987
less than the year before when the books
last closed.
The current year remains uncertain.
All that seems definite is that there will
be a big movement in essential industrial
and war materials for the 1943-44 period
at least, but what the accompanying
financial and political problems will be
can only be guessed at. Our economy
is suffering great strain, and political
morale has been weakened by confusion,
undisciplined selfishness and bureaucratic
opportunism.
Victoria Palace, Ltd. (Melb.)
To Re— Re-
June, Profit. Dividends. serves. serves.
£ £ £ £
1932.. 13,064 7 p.c. = 12,320 744 74,322
1933.. 20,929 10 „ „ 17,600 3329 77,651
Written off. £5O 77,001
1934.. 18,251 10 p.c. = 17,596 655 78,256
Share premiums, £BBOO .. .. 87,056
1935.. 19,717 10 p.c. = 18,607 1110 88,166
Bonus scrip issued, £48,400 .. 39,766
Special depreciation, £20,400 .. 19,366
1936.. 22,305 8 p.c. = 19,360 ) IQ ., 91 on
Staff fund, £lOOO ) ly4a
1937.. 25,578 9 p.c. = 21,780 ) ovqs o 4 too
Staff fund, £lOOO ) 2798 ’
1938.. 22,655 9 p.c. = 21,780 ) o 7r - ohm
To staff fund, £5OO ) 375 ’
1939.. 27,554 9 p.c. = 21,780 ) 4274 28 758
• To staff fund, £l5OO f 4274 2S, '°
1940.. 26,206 9 p.c. = 21,780 ) 04 o« 0 12 184
To staff fund, £lOOO 5 " 126 2 ’
1941.. 25,685 9 p.c. = 21,780 ) 2405 34 589
To staff fund, £l5OO S ’
1942. . 23,990 9 p.c. = 21,780 I 91 n 7QQ
To staff fund, £2OOO ) 210
1943. . 24,800 9 p.C. 21,780 9090 qa 819
To staff fund, £lOOO ) *
The Victoria —a “dry” hotel which be-
gan as one of the coffee palaces of the
1880’s —has always given a good account
of itself. The property adjoins Mel-
bourne Town Hall, fronts Little Collins-
street, accommodates some 800 people,
and consists partly of freehold and partly
of leasehold. The lease, which runs out
in 1993, carries a nine-storeyed building,
erected in 1927, and provision has been
made for recovery of the outlay by
means of a sinking fund. The freehold
section was rebuilt in 1934.
The co. has a moderately-priced tariff,
and black coffee is the most potent brew
dispensed. So neither austerity three-
course meals, with ceiling prices of 3s.
breakfast, 4s. lunch and ss. dinner, nor
the rationing and lift in price of beer and
spirits bit into turnover. Chief bump to
earnings came from the rise in the cost
of foodstuffs and labor, and from taxa-
tion and priority restrictions on inter-
and intra-State travel, while army and
other call-ups complicated staffing and
service problems. Now the anti-social
strike technique of the N. S. Wales
coalminers has produced creeping paraly-
sis in all rail communications in Victoria
as well as N. S. Wales, to the detriment
of the war effort and trade generally.
Still, as war expenditure, financed largely
by central bank credit, increased, so did
the volume of employment and spending,
and wages went up with the cost of living
index, and our own and Allied troops
had to be catered for, too.
For the Victoria, however, trading had
reached its peak during the 12 months
to June 30, 1942, when “hundreds ot
would-be patrons had to be turned
away.” There was little change in con-
ditions last term, when, after meeting
trading exes., there was a contraction or
£1255 in gross earnings (£66,101). An
extra £1230 was struck off for deprecia-
tion, etc. (£13,248), but the bill for rates


iii
in the BIG jar and
EXTRA LARGE tube
you get more cleans
for your money ...
IS SIGHT
v__]
. ■ ■■ ■
!«■
The work of trustees and
executors is highly special-
ised—it is unwise to entrust
it to inexperienced hands.
Leave the management of
your estate to a firm render-
ing complete and capable
service. Special facilities
are available for country
and interstate clients. Write
for booklet
SmimBOVDEILfiCO
133 PITT STREET. SYDNEY-
INVENTORS.—Have you an idea worth patenting?
Griffith, Hassel and Griffith, Patent Attorneys,
Asbestos House, Cr. York and Barrack Streets, Sydney,
obtain Commonwealth and foreign patents. — Advt.
♦ ♦ * ♦
DAVIES & COLLISON, Patent Attorneys, Collins
House, 360 Collins Street, Melbourne, C.l. Austra-
lian and overseas Patents ant> Trade Marks. — Advi.
For Australia at War . . •
Qfe
LATHES . . . CAPSTAN TURRET LATHES
SHAPING. MILLING and PLANING
MACHINES .... BORING MILLS
MACHINE-CUT GEARS for the Trade
MARS MACHINE TOOL Manfg. Go.
Pty. Ltd. Bridge Street, Valley, Brisbane
T O-
-
o
:
o
o
■33
SF
.O
£
o
Your personal
Post-War World
6 practical things you can do
to make it a happy one
A COMFORTABLE home, good food and clothing,
education for your children and a feeling of security.
Doubtless that is your idea of a personal Post-War world. How
can you attain it?
Here are 6 practical things that you and your family
can do;
(1) Buy and hold War Bonds to the limit of your
capacity.
(2) Pay willingly your share of the taxes —even of
increased taxes.
(3) Work as hard—and as long—on your job as you
can so as to keep down the cost of the things or
services you are producing.
(4) Provide for your own and your family’s future by
adequate life assurance. (Most of the money you
put into Life Assurance will go into War Loans
and so serve a double purpose.)
(5) Buy only what you need and make what you have
last longer.
(6) Live faithfully by the rationing Rules and the
Price Fixing codes.
If you do these things you will play your part in avoid-
ing the tragedy of inflation and in making your personal Post-
War World a happy one.
A.M.P. SOCIETY
Security through Co-operation.
Principal Board:
Sir Samuel Hordern, K.8.E., Chairman.
Cecil H. Hoskins, Esq., Deputy Chairman.
Hon. Sir Frederick H. Tout, M.L.C., Hubert Fairfax, Esq., W. A. Mackay, Esq.,
Dr. S. A. Smith, Septimus G. Rowe, Esq.
A. W. Sneddon, F.1.A., General Manager and Actuary.
C. M. Martin, Secretary.
A. E. Webb. Manager for Now South Wales.
* Head Office: 87 PITT STREET. SYDNEY.
STATE EXPRESS
a&MouspueMi
m
c
/f’s your fight your money is
needed now. Save for War
Savings Certificates
and £lO National
Savings
Bonds.
Z39D-11.4S
and taxes, etc. (£28,053), was £3295
lighter. There was thus a slight improve-
ment (£810) in the net figure, which was
equal to 10 p.c. on capital as against
99, 10.6, 10.8, 11.3, 9.3, 10.5 and 9.2
p.c. back to 1936. The div. was kept at
9 p.c., making the average 9.1 p.c. over
the last decade. Of £3020 that remained,
£lOOO was handed to the staff fund, and
the balance lifted the lay-by to £36,819.
Reduction of the outside debt, in-
curred mostly on account of 1934 re-
building, continues to the benefit of cash
and investments and the interest bill:
1939. 1911. 1912. 1913.
Capital .. £212,000 £212,000 £212,000 £242,000
Liabilities* .. 83,591 62,538 59,101 53,211
Freeholds .. 210,654 231,443 225,825 226,586
Leaseholds . . 97,805 95,962 95,361 94,742
Plant & furniture 17,655 13,939 15,192 11,911
Stores.. .. 1,041 1,662 2,178 2,911
Debtors . . 289 254 5,526 2,065
Investments and
cash .. 12,810 13,646 11,076 13,833
* Including taxation.
When the books closed the outside debt,
which consists of a mortgage of £22,492
(down £6166) and of £30,749 (up £300)
coming to sundry creditors, exceeded
more or less liquids (£18,809) by £34,432,
an improvement of £5895 over the year.
Onekaka Iron and Steel
Final curtain fell on the ill-starred
attempt to establish an iron- and steel-
smelting industry on a commercial basis
in M.L. when the Court of Appeal
recently delivered judgment (against the
Crown) in a case that wound up long-
tangled threads of litigation. Maori-
land’s lack of the third leg in the coal-
lime-iron tripod, necessary basis for a
career as an industrial nation (George
Grey’s Britain of the Pacific ), was, it
seemed, a quarter of a century ago, to be
remedied by the discovery of iron sand
on Taranaki beaches. Samples were sent
to Sheffield, and Sheffield politely said
the stuff could make excellent iron, but
offered no opinion on smelting problems,
which even at the outset loomed threaten-
ingly. Undeterred by the fate of an
earlier concern, N.Z. Iron Smelting, which
soon went into liquidation, Onekaka Iron
and Steel Co., Ltd., formed at New Ply-
mouth in 1920, had as its principal assets
an assurance of Government bounties, a
lease from the Crown of iron-bearing
areas in Nelson (ore much easier to smelt
than iron sand) and faith that pig-iron
could be produced at a cost that would
show a profit. The co. scraped along for
a while, so long as the price of iron held
up, but there came a slump, and profits
went phut. The Government came to the
rescue, lending £14,000 and giving credit
for coal to the amount of £23,500, but
the co., after a capital expenditure of
£168,972, went into liquidation in 1931.
Its principal disability was that the
Dominion’s demand for pig-iron was
quite inadequate to keep the co.’s blast
furnace in perpetual operation and
it cost £2OOO to restart it. Manufacture
of iron pipes was started, on the “vertical
process,” to provide a new outlet for pig-
iron, and a good business was being built
up when the “spun process” of pipe-
making was adopted overseas, and the
Onekaka Co. could not meet the new
competition.
Now the establishment of an iron and
steel industry is out of private hands. The
Government, once it gets the war out of
its hair, proposes to set up smelters of
its own, provide for M.L. iron and steel
needs and export the surplus. It has
recently been claimed that Taranaki iron
sand, if mixed with Nelson ore, can be
successfully smelted. As there are
50,000,000 tons of iron-bearing sand in
sight that claim is very important.
Recent legislation was to decide
whether the Crown would forfeit
the Onekaka Co.’s mining rights on
grounds of breach of contract. The
Appeal Judges upheld the Supreme Court
in the view that the Onekaka Co. had
“made a most valiant attempt” to estab-
lish an industry, and its debenture-holders
should not be penalised for a failure that
was no fault of the management.
Lake View and Star (W.A.) pays a
final dividend of Is. stg., making Is. 6d.
(the same as 1941-42) for 1942-43.
(The distribution is less U.K. tax
of 4.8 d. a share.) Regular annual
distribution from 1932-33 to 1940-41
was, with the exception of 1933-34
(when 57| p.c. was paid) and 1935-36
(when 52y p.c. was handed out), 50 p.c.,
or 2s. a share. Shareholders are being
called together this month to hear the
latest about the co.’s affairs and prospects.
* * * *
Hill 50 (W.A.) cheerfully reports that
conditions underground show some im-
provement towards an increased milling-
ore supply. It also states that the present
underground labor force will be sufficient
to resume cutting the plat at No. 4 level
and to carry on with other important de-
velopment work which has lately been
suspended. The market is unaffected by
the good news.
*-**-•
“O.B.”: London Stock Exchange
quotation for Gt: Boulders is now equiva-
lent to nearly 9s. Aust, but the ceiling
price here remains at 6s. 3d. As said
before, Australian holders, if forced to
sell, must accept maximum, in
many cases shillings lower than the shares
cost, while those lucky enough to get
them gain an unfair advantage. What
justification is there for ceiling prices?
At the outbreak of the war the Aus-
tralian Stock Exchanges, without any
Government request, stopped all specu-
lative trading by putting a ban on for-
ward trading. Similar restrictions were
introduced in London and New York.
Evidently such restrictions were con-
sidered enough, because no ceilings are
there, or in any other of the Allied coun-
tries, except the Commonwealth.


t
ţ
VICTORY is in the AIR
Thousands more young men are still re-
quired as Air Crew personnel, to fly the
ever increasing number of planes flowing
from American and Empire factories.
The RAAF needs
AIR CREWS
Whatever your present occupation, whatever you
are doing—apply NOW for enlistment in the
R.A.A.F. as Air Crew
For training as PILOTS, NAVIGATORS, WIRELESS
OPERATOR-AIR GUNNERS, age limit 18 to 32 yrs.
JOIN THE
RAA
Apply personally or by letter to your nearest
R.A.A.F. "Recruiting Centre or local R.A.A.F.
Committee.
R.A.A.F. 3-26.
i
i
V <4
i\
m
f JOHNNYS GOT V*
/ THE RIGHT IDEA . '
/rjr 4 w/? s>nv/w7
CERTIFICATE FOR HIS {
CHRISTMAS PRESENT
m
Johnny’s but one of many boys #
and girls all over Australia
who want the patriotic gifts
that help Australia tpo. Make
sure that amongst your young-
sters’ presents there’s a War
Savings Certificate, some War
Savings Stamps or 5/- National
Savings Stamps. If everyone
docs this, millions of pounds will become available as a grand con-
tribution to Victory.
How Your Christmas
Present Helps Australia
Every penny you use to buy
War Savings Certificates, fid.
War Savings Stamps and 5/-
National Savings Stamps goes
to buy equipment and arms
for our men in the services.
Your presents this year, there-
fore, help Australia as well as
please their recipients.
Cl 2-26
••• ~»r,
JUT This Christmas give: $
WAR SAVINGS CERTIFICATES I
6d. WAR SAYINGS STAMPS S
5'- NATIONAL SAVINGS STAMPS
Free Folders Provided for Stamps
k_ «**
Business,Rollery,Etc.
Land-sale Control in Maoriland
Rising prices of farm lands, while at-
tractive to the seller and to agents hand-
ling sales, impose a burden on the incom-
ing farmer when he has to sell his pro-
duction at no better price than that re-
ceived by the farmer from whom he pur-
chased. It is clear that a property bought
for £l5OO will not give as good a return
to the owner as if he had acquired it for
£lOOO. If he has not all the purchase
money to complete the sale the buyer at
the higher figure has more interest to pay,
and when rising prices are general there
is usually a general increase in rates and
taxes. In any case, if property prices
rise without a corresponding increase in
returns, the yield on capital invested be-
comes less attractive. Then we begin
to hear agitations for subsidies for farm
produce or for controlled marketing or
other methods of inflating selling prices
to a point where they will compensate for
the inflation in land values and produc-
tion and overhead costs.
A development of considerable interest
is taking place in New Zealand. A Ser-
vice Men’s Settlement and Land Sales Act
has been passed which aims to provide
land for the settlement of discharged ser-
vice men, and to provide for the control
of property sales, both as regards the
settlement of returned men and the pre-
vention of “undue increases in the price
of land, the undue aggregation of land or
its use for speculative or uneconomic
purposes.” Passed on August 25, it has
operated since October 18.
A Land Sales Court has been set up, to
which appeals from land sales committees
may be made. (No appeal may be made
from the decision of the Court.) The
land sales committees may decide that
propeitie., capable of supporting two oi
more farmers should be taken over for
the purpose of soldier settlement. The
owner is given ihe right of retaining “an
economic holding, including the home-
, j „ t-u A/r- • . u n «■
stead. The Minister shall offer compen-
sation, which, if not acceptable to the
owner, may be put before the Land
Sales Court for review. The compen-
sation will be according to the basic
va j ue °t the P^ us special loss
Rising out of the compulsory taking oi
the t a nd.
The basic value of land applies to
all other private-land transactions as well,
This value, as applied to farm land, is
assessed at an amount equal to the net
annual income that can be derived from
the land by the average efficient farmer,
capitalised at 4\ p.c. p.a. The net annual
income is calculated at the price level
operating for land products on Dec. 15,
1942. Land other than farm land is to
be valued as at that date by a land sales
committee, “increased or reduced by
such an amount as the committee deems
necessary to make it a fair value for the
purposes of this Act.” “Basic rent ’ in
the case of leaseholds is calculated
according to the basic value of the land
and the lessee's interest in improvements
(if any).
With some specific exceptions, mostly
in connection with partly-completed sales
or options and Government or charitable
property, sales of all freeholds, leases with
more than three years to run, and the
granting of leases and options must be
sanctioned by the Court or a land sales
committee—normally the latter. The
committee may refuse the application, or
it may give sanction for the deal subject
to conditions—such as a sale at a lower
price than that suggested in the contract
of sale or lease.
In considerating an application for
transfer the committee takes into account
the following:
(a) The amount of the purchase-money,
r ® nt or other consideration to be paid, and
the extent to which it may exceed the con-
sideration paid in any previous transaction,
( h ) The terms of the transaction, and
the terms of any other transaction in any
wa y related thereto.
. , suitabll ity of the purchaser or
lessee, having regard to the purpose tor
which ’ the j a fo nd f s being use d, or in the
opinion of the committee should be used.
and to the area of other lands (if any)
he ti b in h case of farm land the suita-
bilit? ir adaptability of the land for the
settlement of a discharged service man or
two or more discharged service men.
It is provided that, except in cases
where a land sales committee decides that
it is not necessary to determine the basic
value or the basic rent, no application
will be granted where the consideration
exceeds the basic value or rent, as the
case may be.
Where any private deal in farm lands
is before the committee it may decide
that the land shall be taken by the Crown
for soldier settlement at the basic price,
No land belonging to any service man or
seaman serving outside New Zealand
shall be taken without permission.
Where consent has been given to a land
transaction by reason of false or mis-
leading statements, or by reason of the
suppression of material facts, the consent
may be revoked.
Every party to a land transaction, and
any person who can show himself to be
otherwise legitimately interested, may
appear at a hearing before a land sales
committee, either personally or repre-
sented by a solicitor, counsel or agent,
and be heard and allowed to produce evi-
dence and cross-examine witnesses.
A number of cases of ordinary prop-
erty sales have already appeared befofe
committees in the North Island. No
cnlriiW QPttlpmpnl rasps havp fimirpd in
soldier settlement cases nave figured in
the reports to hand. A dwelling in Auck-
land, of which sale at £l5OO was sought,
was valued by witnesses at £l3OO and
£l3BO. Consent to sale at £1325 was
given, but acceptance was not notified,
A Glen Eden property bought in June,
ir> r y rcnn tpa
1941, for £305 was offered at £5OO The
Crown valued the place at £460, and busi-
ness was done at that figure. A property
at Remuera was offered at £1950. Gov-
eminent valuation was £1474, and a
valuation made on behalf of the vendor
, , r i /inn ti,
and purchaser was £1490. The committee
refused permission for the sale on the
ground of undue increase in the price,
There have been protests about applicants
having to pay the cost of Crown valua-
tions. No Court fees are payable.
, ..
be P resen t tune there is an u g
put inflating war-time currency into real
property. This urge is evident in the
Commonwealth the same as in Maoriland
—in fact, credit inflation in Australia has
been accompanied by a greater price
inflation than in Maoriland, and property
sales have been controlled for about 18
months. In Australia, however, no judi-
cial body supervises sales. It is a Treasury
job, and not only are values and aggre-
gations of property taken into account;
there is now an obligation to invest in
war loans as well where the deal involves
more than £5OO, and where the buyer
is neither a bone fide homeseeker nor
working farmer.
In New Zealand, in the borough of
Takapuna, the district valuer said that
during 1942 115 houses were sold for
£124,840, the Government valuation
being £88,940, or 40.4 p.c. under the sales
price. Clearly the necessity for prevent-
ing gambling in real estate had arisen.
Where land of a productive nature is
turned over it is even more important
that its price be controlled, subject to
compensation for improvements. In par-
ticular, the settlement of soldiers on farm
lands will have to be done at an economic
figure, otherwise there will be a repeti-
tion of the chaos which followed the last
war. Results of the New Zealand experi-
ment in controlling values will be awaited
with wide interest.
R. G. Menzies on what Prime Minister
Curtin has spoken of as “the national
income”:
The truth is that the national income,
properly considered, is far more a. sum of pay-
ments than it is a sum of true profits or re-
ceipts. The greater the war expenditure the
greater is the national income, because,war
expenditure itself is income in the hands of
someone. So we have the condition that we
are now experiencing in Australia. So far from
paying its national dividend out of profits, Aus-
tralia is to a large degree paying it out of
capital. No one can doubt that war inevitably
means some dispersal of capital; but for a
company to believe that its shareholders are
enjoying great prosperity because it is in reality
distributing its capital to them by way of divi-
dend is to believe the greatest of all fallacies.
We must not become too comfortable about
our financial position just because on paper our
national income rises and the Treasurer is
therefore able to say that the proportion that
the interest bill bears to the national income is
smaller than it was. The truth is that this so-
called national income in Australia can de-
stroy its own value by setting up vast infla-
tionary movements, unless all the safeguards
against inflation are employed to the fullest
degree.


BRANDAUERS
PENS
Every point
guaranteed—
do not experiment with imitations,
a ninum * 00, iu. sixmesohaic eno
piiaili
—n __
YS
CREAM
TABLETS
THE CHILDREN'S FAVOURITE
FOR GENERATIONS
The Federal Mutual Insurance Company
of Australia Limited
F!RE, MARINE AND ACCIDENT INSURANCES
EFFECTED AT LOWEST CURRENT RATES
Prompt and liberal settlement* of claims.
Directors : THOMAS A. MAGNEY, Chairman; F. W. Duesbury ; Sydney Sampson.
R. A. MANZIE, Managing Director. S. T. RUTTER, General Manager.
’Phone (three lines): 87361. Branches in All States. 129 Pitt Street, Sydney.
fOWHK
problem
L U D O Wl C I'S
have the answer
Illustrating
the LXJDOWICI
PIVOT DRIVE
BEHIND the fine quality and the assurance of maximum efficiency in
Ludowici Power Transmission Equipment, stand Ludowici Technicians
—men whose knowledge and experience of every power transmission re-
quirement enable them to give a ready answer to your particular problem.
Our reputation has been built on our willingness to give an unbiassed
opinion and to recommend and supply the most suitable equipment for
each power transmission application.
You have only to ask for our advice to have it freely given.
J. C. LUDOWICI & SON LTD.
11l YORK STREET, SYDNEY
★
leather
BELTING
CO UPLI NGS
SHAF T I N G
GEARS & HANGERS
LUDOWICIS
VfiUUPP
TRANSMISSION
EQUIPMENT
Ti/faic 7% IRoU it
ALEMITE
On the far flung sectors of the theatres of war, on
the production and supply fronts, there Alemite
carries out an unsung but vitally important part.
Power lubrication . . . introduced, fathered by
Alemite . . . ejects inert, worn-out debris filled
greases and oils to put full-bodied new lubricants
at their designated tasks. ALEMITE FITTINGS,
HANDGUNS, POWER GUNS, PORTABLE SERVICE
STATIONS... all contribute to the present need and
will progress to serve possibly larger future needs.
ALEMITE
H.9-U-S Mi.CMf.
LUBRICATION
Another Product o / Stewart-Warner Corp.
1828 Diversey Parkway,
Chicago, 111., U. S. A.
The housing commission has decided
that by 1945 the deficiency of houses in
Australia will be from 250,000 to 300,000.
According to the Prime Minister, “it will
be impossible to overcome this shortage
in reasonable time unless the Common-
wealth Government actively participates
in the programme and full use is made of
all existing State Government, semi-
Governmental and private institutions
for home-building.” Because of high
building costs, and because of the low
incomes and/or large family commit-
ments of some wage-earners, pensioners,
etc., the P.M. holds it to be the Com-
monwealth Government’s duty to provide
financial assistance in the low-income
groups. It is recommended also that
“work should be undertaken immediately
to reduce housing costs.” Cabinet has
decided that State Governments should
be invited to prepare plans for the com-
mencement of 30,000 Government-spon-
sored homes for low-income families,
this representing part of a target of
50,000 houses in the first year after
the war, the programme to be re-
viewed annually in the light of avail-
able building materials and labor. The
Treasurer has been authorised to confer
with the various approved authorities to
determine the basis on which financial
assistance will be given. An experimental
building station is to be established. The
housing commission suggests that in the
immediate post-war period Governments
supervise and financially assist in the
building of three-fifths of the homes.
Later, when the target rises to 80,000
homes a year, the job should be handled
half by Governments and half by private
enterprise. The commission believes that
the basic-wage earner should not be re-
quired to pay more than one-sixth of his
income for the rent of a house, and not
more than one-fifth of his income for
home purchase over 25 years. Because of
variations in climate, etc., it is suggested
that local governments should participate
in housing projects.
The State Government, said McKell,
Premier of N. S. Wales, last week, would
launch an extensive housing scheme im-
mediately the Federal Government lifted
the restrictions on, building construction.
The State housing commission had pre-
pared a housing plan which would be part
of the State Government’s post-war
reconstruction scheme. McKell made his
statement after that made by Prime
Minister Curtin concerning the Common-
wealth plan. There is a suggestion of in-
dependence, not so say non-co-operation,
in the press report of McKell’s announce-
ment. Release of the outline of the
Commonwealth scheme has synchronised
with publication of the powers likely to
be asked for at the Constitutional
referendum.
The time appears to be ripe for the
big mutual life-assurance offices to take
an active part in planning for national
home-building after the war. The war
will probably finish with life offices hold-
ing such a large proportion of war loans
amongst their funds that interest earnings
will suffer, and the financing of home-
building should help to bring up the
average yield. The biggest Australian life
offices are quite big enough to set aside
£50,000 for the purpose of sending young
architects and constructional engineers
abroad to study the latest overseas
methods of building, as well as to
examine new methods put forward by
Australian inventors and designers. Life
assurance itself is a form of home
security ; a house is another. Already we
have seen the advancing of money by life
offices on house property as a condition
to the taking out of an assurance policy
on the life of the borrower. It would
seem a natural enough development for
life offices to take an advisory and super-
visory interest in home construction as
well. Life assurance and home-construc-
tion and -finance are matters that seem
to “marry” very well. Left to Govern-
ments, home-building would seem to be
economically damned from the start.
* * *
Expenditure on war during November
was £47.9 million. For the five months
July-November the total was £231.9 mil-
lion—£l74.B million from loans and
£57,1 million from revenue. So far this
financial year average defence expendi-
ture (£46 million a month) has been
somewhat below the Budget estimate of
£47.5 million a month. The Treasurer
hinted that it might be the other way
round. Figures for the greater part of
the year, of course, are still to come.
sK *
At the annual meeting of the Taxpayers’
Association of N. S. Wales, the president,
S. McKellar White, protested against the
waste of taxpayers’ money in the present
serious financial situation. “It is useless,”
said Mr. White, “to grumble at the finan-
cial cost of war; but we are entitled
strenuously to resist dissipation of our
tax moneys on other Government activi-
ties. The buoyant position of the States’
finances appears to strike no note of
economy on the part of State Parliamen-
tarians.” The Bulletin has published
details of the bounty received by the
States from the distressed Commonwealth
and other sources. It is clear also that
part of the Commonwealth’s distress is
due to its own extravagance, as well as its
experiments in socialisation. Mr. White
said that the most important question of
the moment related to pay-as-you-go
taxation. The Government’s main objec-
tions—that there would be considerable
loss of revenue and that there would be
administrative difficulties were un-
founded.
* * » •
The National Bank of Australasia at
the outbreak of war had a staff of 1969
men and 190 women. A total of 1293
officers of the bank have been released
for the fighting forces, and today the staff
is made up of 934 men and 852 women.
The total present strength is 82.8 p.c. of
the pre-war figure, and the male staff is
down to 47.4 p.c. The bank has retained
the services of only 11 fit men between
the ages of 18 and 35, compared with
1208 in that category before the war,
* * * *
The present Federal Government is
making economic plans for after the war.
The quality of its peace-time plans may
best be judged’ by the standard §>t its
war-time administration.
* * * *
The restoration of the 6d. cost-of-living
reduction in the old-age pension by regu-
lation represents the second time we
have had inflation by National Security
Regulation. The first time was when
(early-1942) the hours in the shipping in-
dustry were reduced from 56 to 44 by
regulation, the Arbitration Court in that
case being sidetracked.
« * * *
The chairman of Amalgamated Textiles
(Aust.), Ltd., is the latest to complain
about the effect misguided “rationalisa-
tion” is having on the market for Aus-
tralian manufactures. The poor class of
goods specified for civilian use does not,
he says, tend to give people confidence in
Australian worsteds, but sends them
looking for imported substitutes.
* * * *
To date the fire, marine and accident
insurance offices in Australia have in-
vested £8.5 million in war loans. Life
assurance concerns have, of course, put
in enormous sums. Insurance and assur-
ance concerns together have been a major
factor in the support given to war loans.
* * * *
At the end of 1942 there were
1,182,417 members of 792 trade-unions
in the Commonwealth. Allowing for
inter-State duplication, the number of
unions was 377. The metal trades
(22 unions) have the biggest member-
ship, with 199,698 (up 105,000 since
1938). Railways and tramways are next
with 120,672, and the public service fol-
lows with 115,954. The total of unionists
rose from 885,158 to 1,1,82,417 over
the four years to December, 1942.
Among the few unions to show a reduc-
tion in membership as a result of the
war are the wood-working and furniture
trades.


THE SERVICE MAN
Onward in New Guinea.
“Ek Dum”: The three A.I.F. and
militia columns —the militia are on the
coast —have made steady progress north
of Finschhafen.
The inland A.I.F. forces had to deal
with the worst terrain they had yet met.
Down a ravine through slippery jungle,
then up through more slippery jungle,
loose rubble and hampering bamboo for
the best part of another mile. Now an
unclimbable cliff, a search round its
shoulders, a wet track tediously cut, with
progress counted in yards.
The Japanese at first paid no attention
to these advances. They apparently were
under the impression that no men could
get through such terrain. When they
found the Australians could not only
push on but could bring up supplies they
added gusty counter-attacks.
These were beaten off, and that with-
out interrupting the general advance or
the work of the long rope of brown
brothers staggering up the Kanaka tracks
with bully beef and ammunition.
The fighting became more bitter as
Wareo was approached. Then bombers
came in to help, blasting with thorough-
ness Jap supply and bivouac areas, com-
munication lines and bases, back as far
as Cape Gloucester, across the Vitiaz Strait.
At 10 a.m. on December 8, A.I.F.
men swept into Wareo. They found it
abandoned, but as the Australian advance
units swept up the north-easterly trail
leading to the higher reaches of the Masa-
weng River and Zabahemi they encoun-
tered the usual fierce, gusty resistance-
gelignite bricks suddenly arriving out of
the scrub and going off with a terrific
bang, fierce little willy-willy attacks which
had to be treated without kid gloves.
On December 12 it was reported that
the A.I.F. had covered about \\ miles
along the trail running north-east from
Wareo and had taken the village of Bazu.
The militiamen’s advance along the
coast was much in the same vein but over
more even terrain. They had the support
of tanks and artillery and of bombers,
and they have been moving along at the
rate of up to two-thirds of a mile a day
in spite of enemy mines, machine-gun
posts and, sometimes, very busy 75’s.
Behind came the engineers, laying down
the coastal road in their usual expeditious
fashion. At the week-end the coastal
force was five miles beyond Bonga.
The results of the week’s operations
were more important than the mere acqui-
sition of another empty enemy base and
the gaining of a few more square miles
of jungle and range. With the capture
of Wareo and the passage of the Kalueng
River, Finschhafen itself now seems to
be safely out of range of any kind of
possible enemy shellfire. The small harbor
is being quickly put in condition to be
used to full advantage by light naval
forces, and Finschhafen aerodromes are
being developed with all speed.
Fighting on the Ramu
After weeks of quiet, fighting began
again on the Ramu trail, about 30 miles
from Astrolabe Bay, on the way to
Bogadjim and Madang.
For three days air bombing and straf-
ing of enemy communications between
Bogadjim and the Ramu were con-
tinuous. It would seem that all had not
gone well in this area. There are indi-
cations that the enemy threw a ring round
the advanced A.I.F. spearhead beyond
Dumpu—near Kesawai, in a hill position,
about 25 miles from Bogadjim. Local
A.I.F. headquarters are said to have been
in this ring. But the Australians fought
their way out in a series of fierce clashes,
inflicting heavy casualties.
In the Ramu area Australian Light
Horse are being used, for the first time
in the Pacific war.
The enemy in this region has been con-
siderably strengthened. The terrain is
difficult, and the Jap has all the advan-
tages, since a motor road runs most of
the way to Madang, 45 miles round the
bay, and he has many ports which he can
use for his barges all round the coast to
within a few miles of the front line. He
is showing every tendency to fight for
the Madang area on a larger scale than
for any part of his territory so far at-
tacked. In the fighting which has now
flared up he is using heavier guns, and
he has strongly fortified positions in the
Finisterre ridges. His bombers also are
raiding our area at Dumpu. In the week-
end communiques it was stated that a
pre-dawn raid on that area had caused
minor damage. Allied fighters, however,
are operating busily; they shot down
three enemy ’planes near Madang, as
reported on December 12.
The belief that Huon Peninsula was
under control so soon as Lae fell in mid-
September and the first patrols made their
way to Kaiapit, and drove the small Japa-
nese advance force there out of it, now
seems to have been erroneous. The sub-
jugation of the Huon Peninsula alone will
take some time unless operations further
north in the Marshalls area impress upon
the enemy the need to get out of the
South-west Pacific before his bases there
are cut off.
The week’s air activity:
Dec. 6: Buildings, gunpits, occupied villages
and dumps round Cape Gloucester were
damaged and a barge and a lugger fired at
Hansa Bay. In the Solomons, Allied dive- and
torpedo-bombers dropped 95 tons of bombs and
torpedoes on Moisura Bay and on* communica-
tion lines between Moisigetta and the Porro
River, destroying a 250 ft. bridge and 40
buildings and starting numerous fires. One
Allied aircraft was lost. A load of 33 tons
dropped on Kieta bivouac area and installa-
tions started further fires. In an unsuccessful
raid on Allied shipping in the Empress
Augusta Bay area, the enemy lost - three —and
probably another three —machines out of 25.
Dec. 7: Long-range fighters seriously damaged
the jetties at several villages in the Tanimbaro,
200 miles off the Arnhem coast. Medium and
heavy bombers started large fires on Rabaul’s
“town aerodrome,” at Lakunai and hit a 600-
ton ship which burned fiercely. One aircraft
was lost in the raid. Five loaded barges and
a coastal vessel were destroyed off south New
Guinea and a coastal vessel was badly damaged.
Heavy bombers aimed 155 tons of explosives
at the Cape Gloucester area; the Wita group
also was bombed. On Borgen Bay area
altogether about 195 tons of explosives were
dropped. About 90 tons of bombs pasted
Solomon Is. objectives.
Dec. 8: Dutch New Guinea, where enemy
outposts had been lightly raided on previous
days, was visited by heavy bombers, which
paid attention to Bolla and Ceram islands and
shipping round the coast. In the Solomons,
the area round Empress Augusta Bay was
attacked by fighters and bombers, while fighters
visited Faisi. Choiseul installations also were
bombed. . .
Dec. 9: The Borgen Bay area of New Britain
was attacked with 100 tons of bombs, and all
the main bases and communication lines affect-
ing Finschhafen and Ramu areas were gone
over in efficient fashion.
Dec. 10: Bombing was general round the
New Britain coast. It was mainly directed
against barges, of which nine were sunk or
seriously damaged. Medium units from the
north-west started fires on the Koepang wharves.
In the Solomons, Buka and Kieta were raided.
Dec. 11: Kaimana area in Dutch New Guinea
was again bombed. In New Britain, 48 tons
of bombs were dropped in the Borgen Bay
area, and shipping was fired by fighter patrols
at Uligan Bay (New Guinea). The coast of the
Huon Peninsula in the Saidor region, which
contains some of the communication lines of
the enemy on the Wareo track, was strafed
heavily. In the Ramu, air support was given
the A.I.F. spearheads by fighters and d.-bs.,
which blasted the enemy positions at Kesawai.
Bad weather inhibited operations in the Solo-
mons.
Dec. 12: Light naval craft destroyed about
10 barges near Reiss Point. Much the same
ground was covered by bombers and fighters as
the day before in the Huon areas and those
affecting them, the main two areas being New
Britain and the Bogadjim-Kesawai communica-
tions at the Ramu end.
On land in the Solomons area, there was
only patrol activity. The heavy rain has
affected ground forces as well as aircraft opera-
tions.
The Marshalls Attacked.
“Ek Dum”: The main weight of Allied
effort is being thrown into the prelimi-
naries necessary to cut the Japs’ so-called
New East Asia Prosperity Sphere in
halves.
Admiral Nimitz, who is the imple-
menter of the first moves, is not allowing
grass or coral to grow under his feet.
The Gilberts were barely in his hands
before he stepped up the preventive raids
on the Marshall Islands into a task-force
attack by naval and air units on the island
bases which were previously attacked in
force in 1942 —Wotje, Ebeye, Roi and
Kwajalong. Kwajalong is the strongest
base in the north-west of the islands.
The heaviest bomber force yet used
in the Pacific, about 300 machines taking
off from carriers, was employed, and the
areas marked out for destruction were
reported to have been thoroughly raked
over and blown about.
At Kwajalong two light Jap cruisers,
three cargo vessels and an oiler were sunk
and a transport and two cargo ships
were damaged. The enemy lost 72
’planes, some on the ground, some in the
course of a vigorous defence in which
several types of fighters and dive- and
torpedo-bombers appeared. Only one
y.S. ship was in any way damaged, and
aircraft losses were reported as light.
The attack was not a main attack. It
was designed obviously to break up the
northern defensive arc of the main enemy
base of Jaluit, which lies 250 miles south-
east of Kwajalong, and which is likely to
prove a tough nut to crack.
The enemy is not leaving the U.S. Navy
and Marines in entirely peaceful posses-
sion of the Gilbert bases. Nuisance raids
are frequent.
Forward in Italy.
“Ek Dum”: The Eighth Army on the
right and the Fifth Army on the left are
moving forward on the Italian front in
a way which would send Left-Wing
writers into howls of ecstasy if the
generals and troops concerned didn’t
happen to be British and Americans.
The battle is mainly the Eighth Army’s.
The Eighth started the German retreat
moving, and by endangering the enemy’s
right flank on the west made the task of
the Fifth Army much less difficult than
it would have been otherwise, though
difficult enough.
The weather continued unkind, though
improving, but this did not stop the drive
in either quarter. By December 6, the
third anniversary of the first British land
victory of the war, that of General
Wavell’s handful of tanks and Scots and
Indians at Sidi Barrani, the Eighth Army
had driven a substantial salient into the
German Adriatic frontal positions.
Along the whole length of its sector it
was well across the Sangro River, except
on the central road from Isernia to Sul-
mona. The right flank of the British
eastern salient was in the Adriatic, up
and down which British light craft were
steaming, sinking whatever Axis vessels
came their way and occasionally coming
into range of appropriate German posi-
tions and pasting them thoroughly.
The blunt spearhead of the salient was
disposed from the rough coast along the
southern side of the Moro River, which
is 10 miles nearer Pescara than the
Sangro, tumbling down to the sea just
south of where the township of Ortona is
to be seen sliding off its heights. The
forward British line was astride the
coastal road and rail and across the
inland Chieti road —by which Pescara
can be outflanked on the direct east-west
highway to Rome —about 12 miles from
Chieti itself. From here the front swung
up the Sangro Valley to Castel di Sangro,
and, towards the north-bending Volturno,
made such a link with the Fifth Army as
the terrible mountain terrain would allow.
Strong Resistance
The Eighth Army had not had the fight
all its own way. The Germans fought
every step. They even succeeded in in-
flicting a slight reverse on the British,
pushing them back at Ortogna, a little to
the east of the Chieti road, but they were
unable to capitalise this success, which
was limited and dearly bought.
The Fifth Army’s problem had been
to break through the gates of the Liri-
Sacco Valley after crossing the Volturno.
Here there is. a dominating pass from
which the traveller from the north gets
his first glimpse of the Campagna, spread
out to the south, and of Vesuvius and the
environs of Naples. Here also the tra-
veller from the south sees before him the
path which leads direct to Rome.
The railway and a series of roads —
great highways like the Via Casertina—
run up the broad valley to the slopes of
the Alban Hills. The gateway is at Mig-
nano. The bars which hold the gates
shut were the mountain fortresses of
Camino and Difensa. These passed, the
going is easier than it has been in the
last few perilous miles which the Fifth
Army has fought over.
The Paths to Rome
.Ten miles onward from Mignano is
the big town of Cassino. Still another
ten miles or so further is a vital road
fork: One prong goes off up the Liri
River valley to Avezzano on the road to
Pescara, the big water-control centre
of the east Roman region. The
middle branch goes direct to Rome, 60
miles away, direct line. A third branch
leans back to the south across the Lepini
hills to Formia, on the Tyrrhenian coast,
to join the Via Appia, which enters the
capital via Littoria and Veletri, skirting
the Pontine Marshes. Part of these
marshes, walled off from the sea by sand
dunes and largely drained in Mussolini’s
time, are said to have been flooded again,
but unless the course of the road which
keeps toward the mountains has been
altered in the last few years this flooding
is unlikely to affect it seriously.
The Fifth Army on December 3 cap-
tured the heights of Camino and Difensa,
but its advance on Mignano was not
made the easier by the fact that the Liri
was pouring floodwater into the main
stream of the Garigliano, of which the
Fifth Army holds the bank furthest from
Romo for several miles from the sea.
Vichy Radio declared at the week-end
that Mignano had been captured and that
the Fifth Army was advancing on
Cassino. At Cassino there are, or were,
useful aerodromes. Rome is brought
within easy fighter reach.
Eliemy Uses Flame-throwers
The Eighth Army meanwhile had
pushed up the Adriatic coast to Ortona,
but was facing a grim resistance inland.
The enemy apparently was determined to
go to any length to prevent a break-
through to Chieti. Strong panzer forces
were thrown in, with powerful artillery
in the shape of batteries of self-propelled
heavy and light guns and flame-throwing
tanks. Counter-attack succeeded counter-
attack.
The British forces, in view of the
terrible mountain weather, lacked much
air support until late in the week, when
the climate improved and the hard-
pressed sectors of the front had bomber
aid, which relieved the situation.
Losses
In the conquest of a third of Italy,
with five of the greatest of Mediterranean
ports and the strategic air centre of the
Mediterranean, the Allies’ casualties have,
relatively, not been heavy:
British. U.S. Total.
Killed .. .. 3,212 1,811 5,023
Wounded , .. 9,709 7,091 16,800
Missing .. .. 3,153 2,670 5,823
Totals .. 16,074 11,572 27,646
It must be remembered that “casual-
ties” have taken on a different mean-
ing since the last war, in which
it was reckoned that 30 per cent,
of wounded at a minimum could
be reckoned as out of the service—
sulphanilimide, blood plasma, morphine
and new techniques with abdominal and
sucking lung wounds and compound frac-
tures, provision of front-line medical
attention and flying ambulances have
given the wounded man in the British
and American forces better than an
85 p.c. chance of returning to his unit.
The smallness of the losses is vividly
seen against the background of those in-
curred in wiping out 15,000-odd Japs at
Buna-Gona, where, in a force very much
smaller than that used in Italy, pitted
against an enemy without tanks and
with light air support, the A.I.F.
and the Americans lost 4554 killed
and 8121 wounded. The small U.S. force
at Buna counted 300 more dead than the
Fifth Army (Americans) in 2\ months in
Italy.
The figures should providd food for
thought for those who compare the Jap
with the Gersnan as a fighter to the dis-
advantage of the former.
U-boats Fail Again.
A Churchill-Roosevelt statement issued
on December 9 was to the heartening
effect that “operations by U-boats were
notable for the little the enemy achieved
for his great effort.” He had used long-
range aircraft, but in spite of this Al» ed
escort and counter-attack measures were
successful: . 1
By means of aircraft operating from the
Azores we have been able to improve tne
protection of our convoys and diminisn
the area in which U-boats are free tr° m
attack by our forces.
The number of ships sunk by U-boats in
November was smaller than in any m? nt
since May, 1940 ; and, though the raider
are forced to a greater caution, y 1
number of U-boats sunk in Novemoe
again exceeded the number of the
victims. .
By the end of July new construct!
for 1943 had gained a lead of 3,000, ,
gross tons of shipping over U-boat
struction, and in the last three rnon
sinkings of U-boats had been at the
of one a day. In six months 150 n
been destroyed.
On Dec. 12 a joint Admiralty
R.A.F. communique mentioned tn
strong U-boat concentration had tried
make a concerted attack on two vaiu
Atlantic convoys. The Royal Navy
the Coastal Command defeated
attempt in a battle which raged 'J° r boats
days over a wide area. Five u " J
were sunk. Over 99 p.c. of the esc
ships reached port, and R.N. sh *P 2e ,
fered neither casualties nor da
though three or four aircraft were
aged and two were forced down .
sea, the majority of their personnel
rescued. - i
German Counter-attacks.
“Ek Dum”: Both sides agree that , V
and knee-deep mud are features
Russian front. The season, striding {0
in one sector, now in another, 00 .
govern nearly all action. In corr
dents’ reports at least, off®?? 1 . noC ar.
up suddenly and as suddenly disapp
The Germans persist with tneu
that the Russians are attempting
offensive with half a million olumber 9
on the Smolensk front. On O e at-
it was claimed in Berlin that 0 5
tacks in this sector had been ne
in four days’ fighting. hat dis*
Jlobin was one of the names ( j en tiai> s
appeared from the news, Ihe , re d
alleged that all Russians had been j


Public Notices.
I ERNST HERBERT BLAS'CHKE, Stateless, for-
merly of German nationality, born at Berlin and
resident five years and eleven months in Australia,
now residing at 15 Fairweather Street, Bellevue Hill,
N.S.W., intend to apply for naturalisation under the
Nationality Act 1920-1936.
I, URSULA AGNES BLASOHKE, Stateless, formerly
of German nationality, bom at Cologne and resident
five years and eleven months in Australia, now resid-
ing at 15 Fairweather Street, Bellevue Hill, N.S.W.,
intend to apply for naturalisation under the Nation-
ality Act 1920-1936.
I, WALTER ROTH, of former Austrian nationality,
born at Vienna and resident two years in Australia,
now residing at 4A High Street, Randwick, N.S.W.,
intend to apply for naturalisation under the Nation-
ality Act 1920-1936.
l 7 PAUL BERNHARD JACOBI, of German nation-
ality, born at Gruenstadt, Germany, and resident six
years in Australia, now residing at 38 Flood Street,
Bondi, N.S.W., intend to apply for naturalisation
under the Nationality Act 1920-1936.
CD
am
from the Beresina— meaning the Jlobm
area—but did not say it with much con-
Russian interest had transferred to trie;
north-east of the Dnieper Bend. The
Russian communiqud of December 9 an-
nounced that “the Red Army south-west
of Dnepropetrovsk fought local battles
and captured several enemy strongholds ,
also that south-west of Kremenchug the
Red Army overcame two enemy counter-
attacks and captured two district centres
and five other localities, cutting the
Snamenka - Nikolaiev and Snamenka-
Krivoi Rog railways. Next day Snamenka
fell. In the present state of affairs the
place is of no great importance to
the enemy ; and until Krivoi Rog, Cher-
kassy and the country to the south of the
latter town fall and give the Russians a
through route from Kiev, linked up east-
ward across the Lower Dnieper, it is not
of vital importance to the Russians.
Towards the end of last week the
Crimea was mentioned for the first time
for days, but only by Berlin Radio, which
declared that on December 7, in four days
of fighting, the Sixth Rumanian cavalry
division, with two Rumanian infantry
divisions, supported heavily by German
armor and artillery and light naval forces,
had “wiped out” the Russian beachhead
on the south of the Kerch Peninsula, in-
flicting “heavy losses” in killed and taking
“2000 prisoners.” Failure, it was asserted,
attended an attempt by part of the Rus-
sian force to secure refuge in a second
Red Army beachhead to the north-east of
Kerch and of the garrison of that area to
make a rescue. The German naval and
air forces had full control of the Kerch
Strait and had foiled attempts to bring
reinforcements across from the Kuban,
sinking six light Russian naval vessels —
such was the concluding claim.
The heaviest fighting in the Ukraine is
obviously taking place in the Korosten-
Zhitomir-Brussilov area, west and south-
west of Kiev. Using tanks regardless, of
losses—“soo or 600 in five days”—the
enemy, correspondents report, “is trying
to break back to Kiev and the Dnieper to
secure winter quarters in the Ukrainian
capital.” This is scarcely likely. The
main gain secured by a return to Kiev
would be to put the flank of the Russian
forces advancing around the Pripet edges
in jeopardy. And whether a break-through
could be capitalised would depend on
weather. According to 8.8. C., Moscow
has admitted that the Germans have been
gaining at the rate of about two miles a
day in one sector, while confident that
they will be held.
The German attack Berlin describes as
a series of “counter-attacks.” The choice
of the area may be due to the fact that
the German communication lines of this
district can be kept on high ground all the
way to Czechoslovakia and Germany
itself, and are served by the lines of access
to enemy home bases most remote from
the claws of the R.A.F. on the whole
Russian front,
Russian communications to the district
are difficult, and are threatened on the
southern flank from German bridgeheads
still existing on the wrong side of the
Dnieper in the Cherkassy sector.
Ribbentrop, speaking on the second
anniversary of the Axis alliance, boasted
that “the Germans, after systematic
strategic shortening of the front, are fac-
ing the Bolsheviks as an impenetrable
wall of iron and steel.”
The Soviets, in repeated onslaughts, have
failed to score a major strategic success
against us. They have suffered immense
losses, which bring the exhaustion of their
human reserves ever neaitr.
There has been a savage renewal of the
bombardment of devoted Leningrad.
"Second Fronts" Again.
“Ek Dum”: After the Tehran confer-
ence, every Fireside Fusilier devoted him-
self to the task of interpreting the actual
decisions, of which nobody knows any-
thing apart from the brief communique*
issued by the leaders.
Most of the interpretations are mere
propaganda of which the tune, as usual,
is called by Second-Fronters. Persons
who write about these matters rarely
know much about the mechanics of war,
but they should know enough to be con-,
vinced that, unless preparations had actu-
ally been in train for months, decisions
about large-scale military action come to
in wintertime cannot be put into opera-
tion for at least three months. It has,
nevertheless, been deduced from refer-
ence to action against the enemy in the
west that the attack by land has been
promised as an immediate move.
Even Hitler, cowering in his cellar, and
the miserable wretches who exist some-
how in the ruins which were once the
western German industrial area, might
agree that there is considerable action in
the west already. So might U-boat com-
manders and the hobbled Luftwaffe.
At the same time, ground action in the
west can be considered on the way. British
divisions must now be armed to the limit
—there are so many British troops and
equipment in India and the Middle East
and Africa that there certainly exists a
large surplus over those needed for opera-
tions from Britain.
Last July it was announced officially in
Washington that 2,500,000 American
troops were overseas. A very large pro-
portion of these must be in Britain. In
Britain also there are 200,000 Canadians,
plus Poles, Belgians, French, Norwegians.
Shipping is expanding at such a rate
that large-scale operations by sea must
now be possible. But when those opera-
tions come, they will have to be very large-
scale indeed.
The Problems of Invasion
At the beginning of the war, when
equipment was relatively light and next
to no armor was going to Gaul,
the sending of the limited British expedi-
tionary force called for the use of all
the big western ports of France. Any
invasion which is made across the
Channel must, as in Sicily, cover a long
area of coast. Bridgeheads a few miles
wide are useless. A corridor must be
created deep enough and wide enough to
make the central core free from artillery
attack. The timing of operations must
be perfect, as well as the co-ordination
of the services.
Thousands of ships, hundreds of thou-
sands of men and thousands of ’planes
must be brought to given spots at given
moments. The chances of surprising the
enemy in such an operation are small.
The plan of Italy and Sicily will have to
be followed —aerodromes, roads and
depots blasted out of existence for a
couple of hundred miles back from the
landing points, so as to deprive enemy
forces of effective fighter cover and com-
munications.
This is an operation for bombers work-
ing on a grand scale. Linking with them
must go the strafers and light bombers
—Typhoons with their four cannon, Hur-
ricanes with their two long two-pounders
sticking out under their fuselage, the
breathlessly flying Mosquitoes and many
more. These preliminary operations must
involve the biggest air fighting ever seen
and the use, on the strictly limited British
aerodromes, of thousands of machines
and perhaps a million or more personnel.
They must put a huge strain on trans-
port. And they must be so planned that,
in a brief space, all the vast organisation
of the battle of air offence can be
switched to a new battle of air defence
of the invading forces implemented with
different kinds of machines. While
British roads, aerodromes and railways
are chocked with the paraphernalia of
these preliminaries, the timetable of the
vaster sea invasion forces must not be
interfered with.
For every fighting division the equiva-
lent of at least two divisions of com-
munication and ancillary troops must be’
taken along with all their supplies, road-
making and aerodrome-building material,
food, ammunition, medical and wireless
requirements for the preliminary period.
Each division which is to be in the front
line will need 1000 tons of ammunition per
day in action. Each 200,000 fighting men
sent must have the service of roughly
1,000,000 tons of shipping permanently
at its disposal.
Men, materials, artillery, beach equip-
ment, transport must not only be got to
their ports and ships over the limited and
congested roads of Britain, must not only
be delivered to an exact timetable worked
out in seconds, but must be arranged in
their starting places so that they will
arrive in the right order with clockwork
precision.
So that arrangements may be co-
ordinated exactly, no day can be set long
ahead for the beginning of operations,
since air, sea and land co-operation is
dependent on a combination of tides,
wind and visibility or the reverse.
Moving Sydney
The mere mechanical job of imple-
menting an invasion across the Channel
is comparable with taking the population
of Sydney or Melbourne across the sea
and establishing them in a foreign land
with most of their industrial facilities.
And this comparison leaves out the land
and sea defensive element and the air
element.
By the time a sufficient force had been
carried across to provide a front-line army
of 1,000,000 men equipped suitably for
the actual invasion of Germany, with
aerodromes and petrol supply laid down
within suitable distances of the German
border to give fighter cover to advancing
troops, and railways and transport and
harbors reconditioned and manned and
ack-ack defences established, the enter-
prise would be better compared to the
removal of the whole of the populations
of N. S. Wales, Victoria and Queens-
land and their establishment on a per-
manent basis.
The average “expert” almost invariably
proceeds on the premise that army ration
strength and front-line strength are
synonymous. In the last war the Ger-
mans at their peak, and with all their
communications on land over compara-
tively short ranges, had about 3,000,000
men in the field—not the front line—
by maintaining a ration strength of over
7,800,000. And war was not then fully
mechanised. There was no home air de-
fence to be manned, no large force to be
kept in the air, no radio-location and
none of the other hundred behind-the-
line facilities which in this war are neces-
sary and put a great strain on man-power.
The Baltic and the South
There are, of course, alternatives to
Channel landings which might be imple-
mented with smaller forces. The driving
through of a passage to the Baltic by
sheer naval and air superiority, with the
establishment of Denmark as a bridge-
head, is one method —in the last war the
Baltic shores were always in the eye of
“Jacky” Fisher. This method has the ad-
vantage that it might offer the chance of
possible co-operation with the Russians in
the freeing of Norway and the Murmansk
route and/or the securing of a bridge-
head in Finland.
The enemy is not blind to these
chances. His recent closing of the
Skagerrak, even to Swedish shipping,
and his military preparations in Jutland
show that he is taking no chances.
A second alternative is an invasion of
France from the Mediterranean or from
Biscay or both, which might have possi-
bilities in a mild winter. So might the
attempted establishment of a bridgehead
at Toulon or on the Riviera, which could
be given air cover from Corsica. But
here is difficult fighting country. Army
and main lines of communication by sea
and air are long. Air facilities for battle-
line purposes here, too, must be initially
limited —the Fifth Army had ample ex-
perience at Salerno of what it meant to
land under only sea-borne artillery and
air cover.
Turkey’s Chances
The meeting of President Inonti with
President Roosevelt and Mr. Churchill
in Cairo convinced “experts” that Turkey
is about to enter the war. The Turks in
October, 1939, signed a treaty with
Britain and France agreeing, in the case
of the war entering the Mediterranean
area, to give Britain and France “all aid
in Turkey’s power,” But this aid was
dependent on assistance from Britain and
France to arm.
Before the attack on Greece Mr. Eden
and Sir John Dill visited Ankara, and
the Marshall-Cornwall British military
mission inspected Turkish defences in
Thrace. A Turkish military mission was
last year welcomed in India. What actual
help Turkey otherwise has given and
what steps have been taken by the Allies
to arm the Turks is not known. But the
fact remains that the maintenance of
neutrality in itself has been of substan-
tial help. If the Dardanelles had been
opened to the Italian Navy and Axis
war-shipping the history of the Russian
war would have been a different tale,
since Russian naval forces negligible
in the Black Sea.
In any case, the completion of the Istan-
bul-Baghdad railway, Mr. Churchill’s
meeting some time ago with President
Inonti at Adana and other signs suggested a
strong accord between Britain and Turkey.
The present diplomatic moves began
after the Moscow conference of Foreign
Secretaries. From various sources it was
reported in the first week in November
that Britain and Russia had started moves
to gain bases in Turkey and to drive Hun-
gary, Rumania and Bulgaria out of the
war. Ismet Inonti at that stage told the
Turkish National Assembly that the Gov-
ernment was ready to “make greater sac-
rifices to lift the great weight which op-
presses humanity and prevents it from
breathing freely in an atmosphere of
security.” And for the first time, when
the Turkish Foreign Minister flew to Cairo
to meet Mr. Eden, the Turks went to the
Allies instead of the Allies to the Turks.
The Weather and Thrace
Winter is more favorable for a Ger-
man attack on the Dardanelles or the
Bosphorus than for an Allied entry into
the Turkish zone and an attack on the
Axis rear.
The Thracian Peninsula is a neck
of land with a herring-bone of rivers and
creeks running off a central winding
stream down its centre. Its ancient roads
in some places are worn so far below the
level of the land that you cannot tell
them from the creeks. It towns —Kirki-
lisse, Lule Burgas, centres of Balkan war
battle —give the impression that a swirl-
ing torrent has run round them and ripped
away everything but the hard core. The
landscape, however, is largely open. The
gullies and creeks, timbered along the
sides with the stubby valonia oak sap-
lings, make good sites for lairs and am-
bushes. In summer the countryside is
ideal for tank warfare. But in winter
the gullies are apt to be full of snow, and
round about February the mud would
bring tears of envy to the eyes of a Digger
from the Barcoo or Nevertire. At the
narrowest end of the peninsula, screen-
ing the Bosphorus and Istanbul, are the
Chatalja defences on high ground.
It is difficult to believe in any serious
operations by the Allies in the Turkish
European region before March, when the
snow is clear save for the detritus of an
occasional blizzard. But once spring comes
Turkey could be an enormous asset, apart
from its considerable military man-
power. Its industrialisation is well ad-
vanced. It has a surplus of grain and
other foods which it could increase. Its
vast Anatolian interior, barren to look
at and difficult for an enemy to get at
over a coastal fringe of ranges, is ideal
for the laying down of mile upon mile of
all-season aerodrome runways which
would bring all the Balkan capitals and
the Dniester, the southern Dnieper and
the Crimea within comfortable Lancaster
bomber range. Sevastopol is 150 miles
from the Turkish coast, Odessa 300
miles ; Bucharest is 230 miles and the
Ploesti oilfields are 300 miles from
Istanbul.
The establishment of an Allied main
base in Turkey would be about the most
important development in the war since
the Allied victory in Tunisia and the
defeat of Germany’s U-boat campaign.
Raiding over Germany was limited last week,
largely because of the weather, though several
attacks were made by Mosquitoes and other
medium bombers over Germany and France.
On Dec. 11, however, heavy U.S. bombers,
covered by fighter escorts, treated the German
U-boat base of Emden to its 88th attack.
Swarms of enemy fighters, including rocket
’planes, took the air. Seventeen U.S. bombers
and three fighters did not return; on the other
hand, shooting down of 117 enemy machines
was reported by bombers and of 21 by fighters.
# * * *
U.S. Liberators, escorted by Lightning fighters,
attacked Sofia on Dec. 10, and the city of the
yellow pavements had many scars added to the
heavy damage already done to its much-
exposed railway yards. It was attacked again
at night in the week-end.
* * * *
The Germans appear to be concentrating
strong forces in Yugoslavia to deal with Tito’s
Partisans, who admit retreats. The internal
position is chaotic, and the intrusion of Com-
munist forces determined to overthrow not
only the enemy but the Government of the
exiled King and Mihailovich threatens a crop
of civil wars in 1944.
* * ♦ *
Mexico has decided to send an expeditionary
force to fight in the Pacific. President Comicho
has suggested that it might be used to help
in the reconquest of the Philippines.
* * * *
The new U.S. battleship Wisconsin is the
largest in history. Displacement is 52,600 tons,
speed 33 knots, and batteries consist of nine
16in. guns. Deck space covers nine acres and
length is 860 ft. —18ft, longer than H.M.S.
Hood.
* * * *
The “Rice Bowl” offensive in China has
run its normal course. The Japanese, having
done as much damage to China’s food supply
as possible, are retiring; but, according to Chung-
king’s High Command, they have paid dearly
with 15,000 dead and 25,000 wounded out of a
total of 100,000 troops. A Chinese com-
munique of Dec. 12 reputed that the Chung-
king armies were pursuing the enemy north
of Changteh, rounding up his rearguards and
wiping out “hundreds.”


Mrs. Housewife
you are hereby appointed
> n V
C'
%
*
2
■XV
%
Lll
/
\
\
A CONTROLLER Of FOOD!
, , , , Yours is an all-important war job now
Australia wants every housewife to use
her natural ability as a Food Manager to
the utmost.
All the food we can possibly spare is
needed for Britain, and for the Pacific
offensive too.
Be even more careful in feeding your
family Remember, what you save in the
kitchen will definitely help to save the
severe rations of the British people being
reduced still further. It will help to in-
tensify the attack on Japan. It will help
to speed the end of the war.
HOW YOU CAN HELP
1. If you have a gar-
den, start a vegetable
plot NOW. It pays.
2. Keep a -tew fowls—
they’ll supply you
with eggs and an oc-
casional chicken to
supplement your
meat ration.
3. Avoid waste. Cook
only enough for one
meal. Plan your
meals for the best
nutriment value.
FOOD IS FIGHTING POWER-DON'T WASTE IT
Issued by Commonwealth Food Control
F. 2.27
rnwrarACM
AM PAM...
Get Quick, Soothing
Relief From lodex
When long hours, unaccustomed activity and hard, hot pavements
cause excruciating foot ailments, thousands find comfort with
lodex. DIRECTIONS : Soak feet in hot, soapy water for 10 minutes
and dry thoroughly. Then gently massage
lodex into the inflamed and tender parts,
giving particular attention to the skin
between the toes.
From your Chemist, Price 2/-.
NO-STAIN lODINE
t
SPORTING NOTIONS
(Conducted by "PILOT")
The uncertain weather affected the
attendance at the Red Cross meeting at
Randwick on Saturday, but though it
was only 27,000, not counting service
men, there was a tote turnover of
£97,426. The fund will benefit by
£lB,OOO.
Hesione (Mulley) quickly got to the
front in the A.I.F. Quality Handicap,
and at the turn was well clear of her
nearest followers —Tahmoor, Kingsdale
and Flying Shuttle. With a strong breeze
helping her down the straight she never
looked like being beaten, and scored
comfortably from Kingsdale and Noble-
man, the last-named getting into the pic-
ture rather late after losing ground at
barrier-rise. Rimveil and Sir Neith came
home well after being a long way back
at the home turn, and in such strong
company Bronze Orchid did well in being
prominent for five furlongs.
In the Red Cross Cup Chatham’s Choice
filled his customary role of pacemaker,
but the turn saw the end of him, and
though Wellesley led a furlong from
home he was outstayed by Cream Puff.
Gryphon beat Modulation for third, but
Modulation had more than his share of
bad luck, especially in the straight. It
is fair to add that Cream Puff and
Wellesley struck enough trouble to cause
the stewards to inquire into it. Castle
Frontenac weakened in the straight after
being prominent at the turn, and Omapo,
Grand Fils and Lady Hamilton ran in-
differently. A. Podmore rode Cream Puff.
Cordale’s owner could have sold him
at a high price after his Rosehill win,
but the result of the Combined Services’
Trial Handicap proved he had not made
a mistake in deciding to keep him.
Cordale (Allen) won that race very easily
from La Belle after Night Parade had
led into the straight. Medieval Queen,
as usual, was running on at the finish,
and just missed cutting La Belle out of
second money. White Feather, who did
not show up until the finish, was next,
and then Blankit. Goya, who was in a
good position for seven furlongs, un-
pleasantly surprised his backers by stop-
ping badly in the run home.
Bravo (W. Cook) justified the short
price taken about him for the Voluntary
Aids’ Handicap. Vermeil was the early
leader, but Silver Flare and Bravo were
first to turn for home, and the last-named
went right away from Silver Flare over
the last furlong. Vermeil was a fair
third, and then Silent, who, after jump-
ing away badly, never looked a winner,
though the fact of Munro being on him
caused him to be solidly backed. Prince
Verity was not dangerous, nor was Hawk
Craig.
All Scot’s win in the Florence Nightin-
gale Handicap bordered on the sen-
sational. When a dog ran across the
field and caused horses on the inside to
swerve out after turning into the straight
All Scot was carried out almost to the
leger fence, but W. Cook succeeded in
straightening him, and he finished in
brilliant fashion to score from Royal
Peer and Code. Marlume and Sincerity
headed the other runners, the latter being
badly interfered with at the same time
that All Scot struck trouble. With a clear
run it is probable she would have at least
gained a place. Among the unplaced
lot Quite So'(by Harinero) showed pace,
but the honors of the race were entirely
with All Scot.
In winning the Diggers’ Highweight
Handicap Lord Neith (McMenamin)
acted up to his Newcastle reputation.
He settled the pacemaker Kimbell a fur-
long from home, and then stalled off
Dick Whitfington. who lost a litUe ground
n ®f r th ® three j U f 01 !| S ' Kmibcll, whe
will improved the race, was third,
and The Champion s fourth was good
enough to make him again worthl back-
mg when next he runs. Bragger was
prominent nearing the turn, as was Air
Link> but the latter sto pped badly in
the straight. Two’s Company’s turn for
a win is not far off. Lord Neith is now
trained at Randwick by T. Murray,
♦♦• . •
Two horses were killed and six jockeys
injured in Melbourne s worst race smash
for years at Moonee Valley last Satur-
day. The eight horses and their riders
involved in the smash, which occurred
near the half-mile in the first Albion
Handicap, were: Son of Legend (H.
McCloud), Rex Buzz - (H. Olsen), Mel-
chett (D. Walker), Alstone (E. Preston),
Double Ray (J. Tully), Mizario (T. Unko-
vich). Prince Ebon (J. Tracey) and Vali-
sarr (C. Sanderson). .Son of Legend, who
fell first, broke his neck. Alstone broke
a foreleg and was destroyed. Preston
and Sanderson sustained fractured collar-
bones, and McCloud concussion, but
Unkovich fared worst. He was admitted
to hospital in a serious condition with
chest injuries. An inquiry into the cause
of the accident has been adjourned until
the riders are well enough to give evi-
dence.
Success of Sangallo, 3-to-l favorite,
who escaped the smash, was the signal
for a hostile demonstration from all sec-
tions of the course. He had run only fifth
when favorite at Flemington a week
earlier, but that race was restricted to
apprentices who had not won five races
in the suburban area, and Sangallo’s rider
appeared to be hampered by instructions.
Dewhurst, combined with a shorter dis-
tance, made the difference last Saturday.
Several backers also raiped their voices
in protest after Proteus (20 to 1) had
defeated Fugleman and Lord Jevington in
the Belinda Hurdle. A week earlier he
had finished a poor fifth to All Saints
at Flemington, but on Saturday, with
121 b. the better of the weights, he beat
the latter out of a place.
Grain Trader, a four-year-old by Hari-
nero-Marcana, recorded his first win
since his juvenile days by defeating Saint
Warden and Mario in the Bulla Handi-
cap. Saint Warden, who would have won
in another stride, looked unlucky. Scot-
tish Chief, favorite, prejudiced his chance
by pulling, and weakened to finish fifth.
He was to have been ridden by Badger,
but the latter, who had wasted 31b., com-
plained of faintness after his hard win-
ning ride on Peter Lalor in the previous
race, and Heather was substituted.
Precede, a 140gns. filly by St. Magnus-
Precious Lady, got up in the last stride
to justify her 5-to-2 favoritism for the
Kinross Handicap, fftr two-year-old fillies.
Peter Lalor, favorite at 9 to 2, lasted long
enough to defeat the unlucky Antares by
a head in the Moreland Handicap, for
two-year-old colts and geldings. He is a
gelding by Law Maker-Old Times, and
cost 80gns. as a yearling. The Trapper
and Nagation, other favorites who assisted
in a good day for backers, were fully
extended to win their respective races.
* * * *
Conditions favored Hesione in the
Quality Handicap, a favorable wind help-
ing her from the turn, but she should
stand a good chance of again beating
Kingsdale. He would not have caught
her in another furlong on Saturday. Both,
however, will have difficulty in disposing
of Nobleman, who, after losing ground
at barrier-rise, was a fair third, and will
meet Hesione 61b. and Kingsdale 71b.
better. Sir Neith, meeting Nobleman 91b.
worse than in the Quality Handicap, is
not attractive, and Rimveil is 111 b. worse
off by comparison with the latter.
Modulation has eased in the quota-
tions, but he had such an indifferent pas-
sage in the Red Cross Cup that his
failure cannot be counted greatly against
him. The question is whether he has
lost some of his early dash, and he can-
not afford that in a mile race. Non-
runners last week included Merrimba,
Ron Rico and Davinia, who are
working satisfactorily, but of those we
saw in the Quality Handicap Nobleman
and Hesione read better than any. Noble-
man has been running so well at seven
furlongs that a mile should not be beyond
him.
Cream Puff’s favoritism for the Sum-
mer Cup is warranted after her Red Cross
Cup win. On figures she reads like again
beating Wellesley, and the prospects of
anything that finished behind those two
turning the tables on them do not appear
bright. Cream Puff was fourth in the
Metropolitan with 7.2, and is probably
better now. The longer distance may help
Eureka, but there was nothing in Grand
Fils’s showing of last Saturday to sug-
gest he will be quite back to his best next
week. Lord Neith’s win of last Saturday
proved that he was well, but a mile and
five furlongs in stronger company may
trouble him, even though he is a winner
at a little over , a mile and a quarter at
Newcastle. We should know more about
him after next Saturday.
Lady Hamilton and Moondarewa were
not impressive in the Red Cross Cup, and
of those which did not run on Saturday
Main Topic and Lambeth are probably
most worth consideration, the last-named
for preference. He has gone on well
since he won recently, and his 7.11 is
only 41b. more than when second to
Amberspear last year. Enderby has been
showing form, but he will meet Lambeth
91b. worse than when the latter beat him
for second in the last Summer Cup.
P. Riddle is in luck in having two such
good two-year-olds as Shannon and Bravo
in his stable. It is certain Shannon
is not a runner for the December Stakes,
but Bravo will make an efficient substi-
tute. In fact, on the way he has won his
only two races it can be claimed that he
is quite as good as Shannon. He is a
fine advertisement for Le Grand Due,
who will probably beget stayers as well
as sprinters. Majesty, who did not com-
mence his intended spell last week owing
to difficulty in securing suitable quarters,
may oppose Bravo in the December
Stakes.
• * * •
The yearlings listed for the National
sales at Wellington (Maoriland) on Jan.
14 and 21 total 252. Foxbridge, with 26,
has the strongest numerical representa-
tion.
« * ♦ *
It is not a full-time job for all, but,
with about 1050 clerks registered by the
A.J.C., bookmakers should not have
much difficulty in securing the services of
capable men.
* * * *
The Caulfield Futurity Stakes is again
to be a handicap, with maximum weight
9.7 and minimum 7.0. It was one when it
was first run in 1898, and was won by
W. R. Wilson’s four-year-old Resolute
with 8.1. The following year it was a
w.f.a. race with penalties and allowances,
and was won by the same owner’s Boba-
dil. In 1900 J. Wilson won with the two-
year-old Palmer, who carried sst. 121 b.
Miscellaneous
Having his tenth fight as a pro. Stan
Wilkes was pot extended to defeat Mery
Willis in the third round at Leichhardt.
A nicely-timed left, flush on the chin, was
the deciding punch. Good judges declare
that the unbeaten Wilkes would even now
have an even-money chance of beating
Vic Patrick for the Australian welter-
weight championship, but he would be
well-advised to polish up his defence an
get a bit more ring-wise first.
Norm Harding is another pug
dued by nature and by learning f aL '§ n ,
to knock out fellow-creatures. W 1
powerful rights he skittled Bob Turn
and Larry Martin in two successive
Saturday-night fights at Sydney Stadm •
Against Martin he won the first tn
rounds from end to end, and the „
the fourth was the signal for N°nn fl
to rush out of his corner and jet j
a right that landed flush on .«
chin —the king-hit. Having his fust
for seven years, Jackie McDonald
pointed Tommy Ward in the other,,
round contest. McDonald, now a nil
weight, was beaten for the
'featherweight championship by Jo® -
in 1931.
FOR RANDWICK.
(Before acceptances.)
By “PILOT."
Three-year-old Handicap: Sin-
cerity, 1 ; Annie Laurie, 2; All
Scot, 3.
December Nursery Handicap:
Invictus, 1 ; Good Idea, 2 ; Silent, 3.
Encourage Handicap: Estralia,
1 ; Manday Son, 2 ; Great Scot, 3.
Villiers Stakes: Nobleman, 1;
Modulation, 2 ; Hesione, 3.
December Handicap; Gryphon,
1 ; Lambeth, 2 ; Wellesley, 3.
High weight Handicap: Dick Whit-
tington, 1 ; The Champion, 2;
Bragger or Kimbell, 3.


Women's Letters
From Sydney
Lord Gowrie uplifted a banner to the
glory of the service woman last Saturday.
He was speaking at the music afternoon
at Admiralty House arranged by Mrs.
Hope Gibson (proud husband was in the
audience) for the y.W.C.A. fund for
recreation huts and leave houses for the
girls. Lord and Lady Gowrie were
among the listeners to a programme just
suitable to the surroundings. Here were
the spiritual, the gay, the wistful but no
thunders of sound. Lindley Evans and
Frank Hutchens were the musicians;
Arnold Matters was the afternoon's
singer. From the names it is to be seen
that the programme was as near perfec-
tion as could be.
The two reception-rooms were crowded,
the pianos being placed near the open
doorway between. The John Butters
lady, president of, Y.W., looked as
handsome as her speech of thanks.
There was a family group of Fair-
faxes, and Dr. Ben Edye and his
wife and Dame Constance D’Arcy
sipped tea together. There was nice color
composition in the flowers and the tea-
cups—half the cups seemed to be gold,
the other half grass-green. Tea was served
in the dining-room and in one of the
music rooms. Dame Mary Hughes was
there, the Fisk lady and a hundred other
North-Shore-liners, or so it seemed.
Among these was knight Robert Gilles-
pie, who handed over a cheque for one
hundred guineas. Also there were the
Frank Alberts. Frank’s fountain-pen got
busy, too, and rapidly wrote two hun-
dred guineas. All told, 500 guineas were
netted. A happy and smdrt group from
Killara included Mrs. Norman McLeod,
Mrs. Harold Bott and Mrs. Salenger, with
clever and pretty daughter Margaret.
Rosemary Parker was another attractive
girl—once Land Army, she is now
W.A.A.A.F. Peter Lubbock was another
of the many.
Dattilo Rubbo’s contribution to the
show now in A.W.A. is an art ex-
hibition in itself. About 50 of this clever
artist’s vivid works are on the walls.
They, like all the other entries, are to be
sold in the interests of the Red Cross.
Mrs. H. V. Evatt, whose opening speech
was to the point and had a quiet charm,
bought four of the pictures. Others fol-
lowed or preceded her example, for by
half-past eleven the red seals were glow-
ing. Among the sold were one or two
of Erik Langker’s.
Erik and his wife were among the
visitors. So was Nevill Smith, whose sea-
scape was one of the admired. Sydney Ure
Smith’s “Palm Beach” and Dora Jarret’s
“Mixed Bunch” are among the many
The National Gallery plucked a bit or
Spain in James Cook’s water-color of
Lerida. Gallery’s director Will Ashton
arranged the exhibits, cunningly using
screens to make room for the 188 pic-
tures, one of the remarkable being B. E.
Minns’s “His Mary,” a typical aborigine
study.
The Convent School of the Sacred
Heart, Kincoppal, at Elizabeth Bay, will
reopen for day and weekly boarders in
February. The nuns have been in evacua-
tion quarters at Bundanoon for nearly
two years. Green Ways, a former guest-
house with a magnificent view towards
Kanjgaroo Valley, supplied the setting for
studies and Land Army duties.
Australia’s bushland flowers have
always had beauty. Artist Margaret
Preston gives them character. In the
woodcuts now on view in David Jones’s
auditorium flower and leaf seem to tingle
with the joy of living. Waratah and
Sturt desert pea send forth intensity of
color. Black cockatoos have a slightly
arrogant, strikingly pictorial poise. The
whole show gives the lie to travellers
who find neither warmth nor charm
in this land’s flora when compared with
that of other lands. Any who suffer
from this inward conservative eye that
recognises only the beauty of the wild-
flower of the land of their forebears
should visit this show and be shaken into
consciousness of the leaf and bud of
Australia’s bush.
Among them Minister for Education
C. Evatt, Sydney Technical College
Art Director Frank Medworth and artist
Joe Collins opened the diploma students’
exhibition in the Education Galleries
last week. This is the usual terrific dis-
play of painting, modelling and the
the clever Tech, students put
on each year. One girl student had
turned her mind and hand to such works
as wrought silver candlesticks of tulip
design and hand-woven curtains printed
in a design from the blocks she had cut
herself. In addition was a peasant skirt,
its hem blazoned with hibiscus, also de-
signed and blocked by this diploma’d
girt* Crowning achievement of this little
j 0 t was a sundial.
cheerfulness and grace was a daf-
fodil £ rock G f SO me mercerised weave,
Q n we re browny woodland things—a
S q U i rre i eating a nut and a field mouse
scampering along a vine. A wrought-
j rQn tab j e i amp an£ j a silver wall clock,
tbe latter w jth moon and star and
a sa iij n g > were other entries not
tQ be overlooked. Phyllis Shillito, head
Q £ tbe Design School, was as smart
as p a j nt j n a su j t 0 £ brown and mushroom
stripes, the material handwoven at the col-
iege. Her gloves, off-white kid with brown
stitching and embossing, were another
home-grown product. Her handbag, too,
was a x e ch. creation.* Being questioned,
s he admitted her shoes were just an
ordinary commercial purchase. Lady
Cowrie, who stayed an hour at the exhi-
bition, was met and convoyed by Phyllis,
a pretty and earnest girl who is doing
her bit is Phyllis Picton Jones, daughter
of the I. P. Jones couple, of Strathfield.
Phyllis is an all-time Red Cross Aide,
and her duties lie at the Eva Hordern
Home in her own suburb. Before being
attached to the Eva Hordern she was
busy at the Ritz (now a Red Cross con-
valescent establishment) in Leura. Peter
Pan photograph.
Dr. Mary Booth, who founded the
Memorial College of Household Arts and
Science, is very pleased that this pleasant
old house at Kirribilli will open its doors
to resident students once again in the
new year. Owing to general war condi-
tions, travel difficulties and so on, the
college students for some time have
been of the day variety. Mrs. Sweetland
is the college principal,
I now have four sons in the forces, and
turn to books more than ever for consola-
tion.
That extract from the letter of an old
subscriber to the Bush Book Club was
on the back of the invitation sent out
to friends to come along and bring parcels
of books and magazines to the 8.8. C.
last week. No. 19 Bligh-street, in re-
sponse, opened its doors to 700 books
and about 1000 magazines, which will
find their way to the outback as quickly
as willing hands can dispatch them.
Every year about 14,000 books are cir-
culated and bring untold joy to readers
beyond the reach of township and ordi-
nary libraries. Lady Cowrie was one of
last week’s visitors. In her parcel of
books she had included a copy of The
Happy Warrior. This is a collection of
the poems of her son, Major Patrick
Hore-Ruthven, who died a warrior’s
death last year.
There is one thing regulations cannot
break, and that is the spirit of Santa
Claus. The kindly feeling the world’s
old friend always brings with him was
evident at the Christmas party of the
English-Speaking Union. This brought
a buzz of members to the club on
Farmer’s roof garden, and the afternoon
was made the more gracious by the rich
notes of Violet Semple and the crystal
clearness of her enunciation. Violet is a
singer who loves the words of the song.
Mrs. Porter, too, was in great voice. It
seemed ip keeping with her Red Cross
activities that she should sing of peace.
Mrs. Harry Twigden was the pianist.
A cheque for £3OO, the results of the
one-day shop run for the Red Cross by
Mrs. George Tosi and Mrs. Murray
Harding, was handed over to the
society’s A. L. Blythe. General feeling
was that this was really big business, and
the two amateur shopkeepers were con-
gratulated with great enthusiasm. The
bride doll and the hamper were awarded
to the lucky-number holders. They looked
very superior and exclusive in their
gilded and tissue wrappings. Secretary
of the E.S.U. Mrs. Wallace Turner made an
apt speech, and then everybody drank tea.
From Melbourne
“Send Christmas gifts to hospitals, city
missions and children’s homes, where
they’re really needed,” is the cry of all
social workers this year. They argue that
any other sort of giving is out of tune
with war conditions and that the urge
to buy and give that comes over every-
one in spite of austerity propaganda can
only be blamelessly worked otf in helping
needy charities. Red Cross p.o.w. funds
are especially mentioned in this connection.
A special appeal this year is being made
for Christmas table fare for charitable
organisations which provide Christmas
dinners and a spot of seasonal jollity for
those to whom parties are a very rare
happening. The very old and the very
young are the chief beneficiaries under
this head. Rationing has hit most chari-
ties rather hard, as clothing and food are
both on the list, and it is- suggested that
the Christmas spirit will be best exempli-
fied this year by stretching supplies to
make an extra pudding to give away or
by putting one’s third-best hat in the
give-away bag.
The Braille Writers’ Association, which
celebrates its golden jubilee this year,
is one of those groups that keep their
good works very much to themselves and
those they help. It’s not generally
realised that this city houses the world’s
third largest Blind Readers’ Library and
that this is almost entirely supported by
voluntary subscriptions and the work of
Braille scribes who are housewives, busi-
ness men and women and the like, giv-
ing their spare moments to the cause. The
library’s stocks include educational
books and fiction, and every effort is
made to keep reading matter up to date.
Pivot point of the organisation is Miss
Minnie Crabb, secretary of the library,
who has seen it grow from a very much
smaller affair to its present proportions.
She’s something of an inventor in the
realm of Braille typography, too, and
has designed a machine for printing the
association’s monthly news-sheet. Those
who know the value of the library to this
city’s many blind readers are anxious
that the jubilee should bring forth a fresh
band of voluntary writers to help the
present 150 (a very inadequate number
in view of the demand for books). This
is work that should appeal especially
to women with even an hour or two a
week to spare.
A wedding of interest to both this city
and Sydney was that of Rosemary Cald-
well and Major James London. A.T.F,
last week. The bridegroom, who has
seen four years’ service overseas, is well
known in both capitals, and is the son of
Mr. and Mrs. H. P. London, Balgowlah,
Sydney. Rosemary, who is the younger
daughter of the Basil Caldwells of
Brighton, wore a wedding dress borrowed
from Mrs. Noel Thomas (Margaret
Tucker that was), and bridesmaid was
Betty Whitby, another friend of school-
days, who wore striking cloth-of-gbld
organdie. The bride ha,s made a success
of dress-designing and will continue with
the job while her major gets on with the
war. Spencer Shier made this picture of
Rosemary.
The long arm of Man-power has made
itself felt amongst Uni. students again,
those mostly concerned being women in
unreserved faculties. A change from last
year’s procedure is the decision of the
powers-that-be not to send women
students to the country or country towns
but to put them on the job in city fac-
tories. A protest from quite a number
of indignant mothers has a lot to do with
this decision. A few women, however,
have volunteered for country work, and
will go to farms in small groups. Many
are going to farmers who tried students
last year and found them good farm
hands.
The Centaur Fund grows in stature
daily, according to its organiser, Emerald
Goefze, but is as yet only in the lusty
infant stage, £l6OO of the necessary
£5OOO having come to hand. To send the
figures up, two “dos” are imminent.
First of these is a garden party at Olinda
on the 19th, in which the “Let’s Face It”
cast is helping. The garden Is that of
Mrs. Hughes Jones. On the 21st the
W.A.A.A.F. choir, which has earned lots
of hand-clappings to date, will appear in
a Centaur concert. Verdon Williams will
conduct the “Warsaw” Concerto. The
heads of the medical services of both
Australian and Allied forces have been
invited.
Some control of toy prices was cer-
tainly overdue in this city, where even
the simplest felt rabbit flourished a price
ticket beyond the means of most parents.
Kindly souls who have been getting up
Christmas treats for sick and orphaned
children have been greatly handicapped,
as buying in bulk was out of the question.
Among those who are appealing for toys
is Mrs. Barry Thomson, who has been
Santa (behind the scenes) to Alfred Hos-
pital children for many years.
Midday concerts finished for the year
last week, and will start again in March.
Even for this short period they will be
missed by the music-lovers who made a
point of attending every concert. Mostly
workers in city offices, they were on the
whole a very young audience and a cheer-
ing sight for those who fear for the
future of the arts. University students
who’ye developed the hdbit of apprecia-
tive listening from Conservatorium shows
and weekly record playing in concerts
during their Uni. days have been among
enthusiasts for the concerts.
One of the many visitors from the East
who have been brought to these shores
by the war and who’ve made a niche
immediately in the ranks of enthusiastic
workers for service needs is Mrs. H. W.
Urquhart. Navy House and the Navy
Welfare Funds are especial interests of
hers, as her eldest son is an R.A.N. mid-
shipman. Orwell Hospital for convales-
cent naval lads also claims her time, and
she shared a toy stall with Mrs. Douglas
Stewart at the sale of work by patients
held on Saturday. Mrs. Urquhart is no
stranger to these parts, as she is a Sydney-
sider by birth and her husband, who
claims Scotland as his native heath, spent
some of his childhood years in the
manager’s residence of the E., S. and A.
Bank, Collins-street.
The first-night performance of “Kiss
and Tell” at the Comedy was a welcome-
home for Gwenda Wilson, who received
a good found of hand-claps from an
enthusiastic audience. She began tread-
ing the boards at Melbourne Uni. revues
and am. dram. ass. shows of the sort that
have given training to quite a few lasses
who’ve taken up a professional stage
career. While at the Uni. Gwenda was a
bright contributor to “Farago,” and
brought to light many gems of uncon-
scious professorial humor.
The dressing of the audience was
almost up to pre-war standard, plus an
extra smartness that comes from avoiding
the fluffy crinoline affairs that some first-
nighters insisted on getting into in the
Good Old Days. There’s a tendency at
most evening shows now to favor the
long but very sleek dinner frocks of a
few seasons back instead of day clothes —
no doubt the stockingless leg has some-
thing to do with it. Tailored woollen
jackets are the answer to the problem
of looking festive but not too ornate for
bus or train in these days of rationed
petrol, and the most attractive lasses are
favoring bright, very-fitting ones. Eye-
catchers on Saturday night were a hunt-
ing-pink jacket and a navy-blue reefer
like a little boy’s coat, worn over a
swathed skirt.
The enduring appeal of Handel’s
“Messiah” was demonstrated by the
crowds which flocked to Saturday night’s
performance at the Town Hall. Several
choirs joined with the Zellmann Memorial
Orchestra to produce the work, and the
conductor, Herbert Davis, has wielded the
baton for the oratorio on countless occa-
sions. Town Hall seating can be arranged
to fit the size oL.the audience and well-
placed spaces between rows have, on
occasion, masked a poor house very suc-
cessfully. But there was none of this on
Saturday, when squeezing oneself into a
seat was a painful process. The audience
still rises as a body when the “Hallelujah
Chorus” starts. When George II inaugu-
rated that custom he paid a splendid
tribute to great music, even if, as modern
debunkers allege, the old dear mistook
the music for the National Anthem and
the end of the show.
The question of baby transport seems
likely to divide the feminine front in this
city. The dailies are filled with letters
discussing “shall prams be carried on
trams and trains or not?” and the same
question is talked about by women on
every station and tramstop when a pram
heaves in sight. Mothers are all in favor
of assisted transport.


Divorce Notices.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW SOUTH
WALES — In Divorce.
TO ETHEL MABEL COLEMAN (also known as TIP-
PING) late of 81 Cowper Street. Waverley.—TAKE
NOTICE that JAMES COLEMAN has filed a Peti-
tion for Divorce No. 3087 of 1943 on the ground
of desertion without just cause or excuse for three
years and upwards If you wish to defend you may
enter an appearance at the Divorce Office Supreme
Court King Street Sydney by the 31st day of Junu-
ary 1944 and obtain a copy of the petition without
charge from MESSRS. E. R. TRACEY & CO. Solici-
tors 81 Elizabeth Street Sydney.— (l.s.) C. K.
BODY, Registrar in Divorce.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW SOUTH
WALES — In Divorce.
TO CARL MASON (also known as CARL McIYOR)
late A.I.F.—TAKE NOTICE that SYLYIA MASON
(also known as SYLVIA McIYOR) has filed a Petition
tor Divorce No. 2230 of 1943 on the ground of deser-
tion without just cause or excuse for three years and
upwards If you wish to defend you may enter an
appearance at the Divorce Office Supreme Court King
Street Sydney by the 17th day of January 1944 and
obtain a copy of the petition without charge from
MESSRS. E. R. TRACEY & CO. Solicitors 81 Eliza-
beth Street Sydney.—(l.s.) C. K. BODY, Registrar
in Divorce.
Public Notices.
I, BRUNO JOHN BERAL, Doctor of Laws, University
Vienna, of Austrian nationality, born in S'ereth and
resident five years in Australia, residing at 85 Bays-
water Road, Sydney, intend to apply for naturali-
sation under the Nationality Act 1920-1936.
I, OTTO KARL RINK, of former Austrian nation-
ality, born at Vienna and resident five years in
Australia, now residing at 45 Denning Street, Coogee,
intend to apply for naturalisation under the Nation-
ality Act 1920-1936. ____________
I, EDGAR HEINZ LEWINSOHN, formerly of Ger-
man nationality, born at Berlin and resident five
and a half years in Australia, now residing at 35
Liverpool Street, Rose Bay, intend to apply for
naturalisation under the Nationality Act 1920-1936.
I, JULIUS HERMANN WOLFF, Stateless, of former
German nationality, born at Wiesbaden, Germany,
and resident over six years in Australia, now resid-
ing at 58 Bayswater Road, King’s Cross, N.S.W.,
intend to apply for naturalisation under the Nation-
ality Act 1920-1936.
I, LEOPOLD VOGEL, Stateless, of former German
nationality, born at Nieder-Saulheim and resident
five years and five months in Australia, now residing
at 3 Wallangra Road, Dover Heights, in the State of
New South Wales, intend to apply for naturalisation
under the Nationality Act 1920-1936. _
I, CHARLES JOSEF BERG, formerly of German
nationality, bom at Berlin and resident six years
in Australia, now residing at 7 Manion Avenue, Rose
Bay, intend to apply for naturalisation under the
Nationality Act 1920-1936.
I, JOHANN WILHELM ALEXANDER LATZKO,
known as John Alexander Latzko, Stateless, of
former Austrian nationality, born at Vienna, Austria,
and resident five years in Australia, now residing at
10 Marjorie Street, Roseville, N.S.W., intend to apply
for naturalisation under the Nationality Act 1920-1936.
Public Notices.
I, PTE. WILLIAM EDWARD PAUL MOSER, serving
with the A.M.F., of Austrian nationality, born at
Vienna and residing four years and eight months in
Australia, now residing at 7 Roach Street, Marrick-
ville, N.S.W., intend to apply for naturalisation
under the Nationality Act 1920-1936.
I, L.-CPL. BILL RIVErIS, formerly ADALBERT
REVAI, serving with the A.M.F., of Austrian nation-
ality, bom at Vienna and residing five years in
Australia, now residing at 208 Marrickville Road,
Marrickville, N.S.W., intend to apply for naturali-
sation under the Nationality Act 1920-1936.
I, WILLY GRONSFELD, of German nationality, born
at Neuenkirchen, Germany, resident for five years
and five months in Australia, now residing at 21A
Bondi Road, Bondi Junction, intend to apply for
naturalisation under the Nationality Act 1920-1936.
I, WOLF ULMAN, of Austrian nationality, bora at
Tarnov, Poland, and resident over five years in the
British Empire, the last four years and ten months
in Australia, now residing at 2 Mitchell Street, North
Bondi, N.S.W., intend to apply for naturalisation
under the Nationality Act 1920-1936.
I, ALFRED BENJAMIN, of German nationality,
born at Bochum, Germany, and resident five years in
Australia, now residing at 52 Old South Head Road,,
Vaucluse, N.S.W., intend to apply for naturalisation
under the Nationality Act 1920-1936.
I, THOMAS PEYSER, of former German nationality,
born at Berlin, Germany, and resident six years in
Australia, now residing at 21A Bondi Road, Bondi
Junction, N.S.W., intend to apply for naturalisation
under the Nationality Act 1920-1936.
L WALTER HEINRICH ZINNER, Stateless, of
former German nationality, born at Hamburg and
resident five years and two months in Australia,
now residing at 22 Bellevue Road, Bellevue Hill,
intend to apply for naturalisation under the Nation-
ality Act 1920-1936.
I, GEORGE BALOG, of Hungarian nationality, born
at Budapest and resident one year and ten months
in England, and three years and two months in
Australia, now residing at 22 Balfour Road, Rose
Bay, intend to apply for naturalisation under the
Nationality Act 1920-1936.
I, OTTO GRUNWALD, known as OWEN GRANT, of
Austrian nationality, born at Vienna, Austria, and
resident four years and three months in Australia,
and one year two months in England, now residing
at 10 Holdsworth Strept, Neutral Bay, N.S.W.,
intend to apply for naturalisation under the Nation-
ality Act 1920-1936. I
I PTE. FRITZ FRIEDRICH (known as FREDER-
ICK) VAN CLEBF, A.M.F., of former German
nationality, bom at Hamburg, and resident five years
four months* in Australia, now residing at; 2nd Aust.
Employ. Ooy., Mascot, N.S.W., intend to apply for
naturalisation under the Nationality Act 1920-1936.
I, .VICTOR CURTIS, formerly KERTEISZ, of Hun-
garian nationality, born at Budapest, Hungary, and
resident five years in Australia, now residing at
Ivurrajong Road, Casula, N.S'.W., intend to apply
for naturalisation under the Nationality Act 1920-
1936.
I, LOTHAR LUDWIG SALMON, of German nation-
ality, bom at Freiburg (Badenia), Germany, and
resident five years and five months in Australia, now
residing at 14 Stuart Street, Manly, N.S.W., intend
to apply for naturalisation under the Nationality Ad
1920-1936.
I, CURT ROSENTHAL, of German nationality, born
at Zempelburg, Germany, and resident five years ana
five months in Australia, now residing at I 100
Brighton Boulevard, North Bondi, intend to apply
for naturalisation under the Nationality Act IS-U-
-1936. IIM
ft A
5s
5.
Z
9
c
m
1
y
* *
IN EVERYONE’S BACKYARD!
Perhaps you never see coal in your home. Yet, in effect, you have a huge
stack of it in your backyard! Every time you press a switch or turn a tap;
every time you use electricity or gas; every time you use hot water, you
are eating into Australia’s shrinking reserve of coal! If you could see
the coal you use, you’d realise the necessity for saving every pound of
it! Don’t burn unnecessary lights: don’t cook more than necessary! For
Australia’s sake—for your own sake—think in terms of coal every time
you press a switch or turn a tap!
COT DOWN ON CAS, ELECTRICITY AND HOT WATER
Utti
r mmw f _
BtSAVEDf
Issued by the Commonwealth Coal Commission
COAL TIPS!
Whenever possible use
one room and one light.
Switch off radio when not
actually listening in.
Take a short shower in-
stead of a warm bath.
Don’t wash anything un-
der running hot water.
ge i-i»
SMOKE-OH!
“Poultry Men Stand Guard.”
— “Sun’ heading.
They don’t like their eggs poached.
•j* *s*
“Watchdog given away for good home.”
— Advt. in suburban paper.
Plus a cash adjustment, of course.
Precaution.
I cannot kiss you, gentle Fay!
Alas, dear maid, it must not he!
For while my Caroline’s away
I’ve sworn to kiss no other she.
If I should weaken as of old.
What dire remorse my heart wouid
wring!
Besides', my dear, you have a cold.
And I might catch the blasted thing.
T. W. NATHAN.
A New Board.
CIRCULAR SX4O3 (B).
Registration of Goannas. From
1/12/’43 under Reg. 934, Clause 77, it is
compulsory to register all stocks where
more than twelve reptiles are kept, sub-
ject to the following classification:
Class I.—Goahnas, oil for the pro-
duction of.
Class ll.—Stud sires and breeding
stocks.
Class lll—Wild and unbroken stock
on premises.
Financial Assistance to Farmer. —A
subsidy of 3d. lb. will be granted on all
clarified goanna oil and/or Id. lb. on
all by-products.
Note. —The Board imposes a levy of
4d. lb. on oil and/or 2d. lb. on
by-products.
Compensation to be paid on goannas
certified to have died from natural causes,
such as pulpy kidney or ingrowing warts,
will not exceed two-thirds of market value.
Labor. —Members of the Women’s
Land Army will be available. Farmers
should apply on Form zoxl9/888 to
W.L,A. headquarters.
Farm Requisites. —Under the Priority
Scheme the following materials and ser-
vices are available:
Fencing Wire—Medium goannas only.
Scotch-hobbles. —All sizes.
Oil Siphons.—Quota of one for each
three goannas.
Retreading.—Middle-aged goannas only.
Vermin Infestation. —All goannas to be
mustered for inspection by the local
Delousing Authority at times specified
by the Board.
Restriction. —It is now an offence under
Reg. SY2, Clause 7, for goannas to be
slaughtered. Persons found in possession
of goanna steak will be prosecuted.
Goannas straying beyond specified lines
(e.g., Brisbane) may be arrested on appli-
cation to the Minister of Transport, Mr.
Ward.
Goanna versus snake fighting is to
cease forthwith.
The Board will hibernate at the same
season as the goannas.
By Order of the Goanna Oil Board,
ESK D.
On Thin Ice.
“First step to divorce court.” — “Sun. v
First step to divorce ?
Is the line just a quip ?
I demur to the step;
It is more like a slip.
YAIR.
Coalminers on Campaign.
Hi.
That strike in sympathy with the ex-
deputy who was being sued for divorce
fizzled out four days later, when Ser-
geant Walkout, who in the meantime had
returned from leave, disclosed that the
Harry Smith they were striking for had
died 10 years ago. The battalion took the
next day off out of respect for their late
workmate.
The following day Private “Banjo”
Weelder clinched an argument with Cap-
tain Pitprop, promoted from corporal to
replace the adjutant, whose removal the
battalion had demanded, by breaking his
jaw. Private “Banjo” was put under
close arrest, and under action taken
by the miners’ own Disciplinary Code
Committee he was given one day’s
fatigue duty and was asked by the chair-
man to kindly refrain from being so
hasty ip future. The prisoner objected
to the'brutal tone used on him, and
called a stop-fight meeting to discuss the
question of removal of the chairman. It
was decided to strike until satisfaction
could be obtained from the Infantry
Reference Board.
The next day was payday, and Private
“Banjo,” on finding he had been docked
a day’s pay, called another strike. The
question then arose as to the procedure
when two or more strikes were running
concurrently. Eventually it was decided
to refer the matter to a joint committee
of the Miners’ Disciplinary Code Com-
mittee, the Infantry Reference Board, the
Battalion Strike Committee and the Shop
Stewards’ Committee, both strikes mean-
while to continue.
Two days later Colonel Wells an-
nounced that the fine had been quashed,
but Private “Banjo” called for redress
because he had already been unjustly
punished with the fatigue duty. The re-
sultant strike was settled when the O.C.
granted him two days’ leave as recompense.
The next afternoon, in an address to
the assembled battalion, Colonel Wells
voiced his pride in the battalion’s great
feat in completing a whole day without a
strike. It was a splendid record, and a
complete answer to those shortsighted
critics who sneeringly affirmed that the
Miners’ Battalion was always on strike.
The address was interrupted by a shout,
and across the ground, wearing one boot
and carrying the other, clomped Corporal
Greezey, “A” Co.’s cook. He stopped in
front of the colonel and upended the
boot he held. About a cupful of soapy
water fell out.
“It’s a pity y’ can’t keep y’r mob
in better order, Wellsey,” he growled.
“Batesy, me offsider, thought he’d be
funny and tip his shavin’ water in me
trilby. Orright, blokes, y’re all out!”
Next day the committee decided to
terminate the strike on the cook’s receiv-
ing the O.C.’s personal apology for the
incident and his promise that practical
jokers would be subject to the miners’
disciplinary code in future.
The Miners’ Battalion, with the bat-
talions on each flank, attacked next
morning after intensive artillery prepara-
tion. All positions were taken after stiff
resistance, but halfway through mopping-
up a shop steward gave the order to
cease fire. Colonel Wells came hurry-
ing up. “What’s the trouble, men?”
he asked. “The mopping-up must con-
tinue or”
Corporal Ledswinger stepped forward.
“We’re applyin’ the darg, Wellsey,” he
said. “Today’s output limit set by the
shop stewards of 10 grenades and 100
cartridges per man has been reached.
The Japs’ foxholes’ll have to wait till
tomorrer! ”
Bo.


THE OTHER FELLOW'S MIND
The contributor placed first is paid
4Jd. per line; all others 2£d. per line.
Soldiers at Eighteen
I cannot allow to pass unchallenged
“Jeff’s” statement (B. 17/11/ ’43) that
youths who enter the army at 18 are a
hindrance and not an asset.
I wouldn’t swap one such lad for 100
of his critics. He is the cream of the
C.M.F. and a worthy reinforcement to
A.I.F. units with distinguished records. In
fact, many a youngster who lied his way
into the A.I.F. at 18 or even less has since
demonstrated just how leaky are “Jeff’s”
assertions.
The mind of the 18-year-old soldier
is not necessarily “juvenile.” It may be
immature, but this does not imply
instability. His mind is more receptive—
quicker to absorb and respond to train-
ing. He develops that outlook of cheer-
ful fatalism—the hallmark of a good-
soldier—which may be lacking in an
older man who has domestic responsi-
bilities to distract him.
The youngster has more dash. The
R.A.A.F. recognises this, and its policy
of recruiting boys who have received
even earlier training with the Air Train-
ing Corps is paying high dividends.
Admittedly youngsters require more
leading and more discipline, but they
have stamina and pluck, and quickly
absorb and recover from hardship. Most
of the objections to youths undergoing
front-line service are based upon
idealistic and not on practical grounds.—
Toreador (A.1.F.).
Morale
The big morale-boosting campaign con-
ducted by the Minister for Information
in the Affair of the
Three Anthems (to be
performed at all loyal
picture theatres) shows
how omniscient is his
department in popular
psychology. Morale
among those that count
—the electoral majority
that swept the Govern-
ment to success last
August—is really excel-
lent, despite the annoy-
ances of beer shortages,
the high cost of cigar-
ettes and the exigen-
cies of the taxi service. And so it should
be, or it would show a poor result for the
Government’s generous administration
and the cheerful work of the Department
of Information.
But Mr. Calwell’s appreciation of
morale may travel further than that of
his Parliamentary contemporaries, which
begins with and ends at making life
happy for the coalminers, he aims at
“developing an Australian national spirit,
which the inclusion of the American
anthem will doubtless assist. No men-
tion has been made of the possibility of
performances at the conclusion of Par-
liamentary sittings, but it can be assumed
that the open-air theatres in New Guinea
will be asked to fall into line with the
commercial enterprises on the mainland.
Mr. Calwell’s effusive and catholic
loyalty may prove embarrassing, not only
to our trans-Pacific visitors but to much-
harried, Canberra, where some unfortu-
nate Diplomatic Corps cadet may have
to spend hours with his French grammar
explaining why a montage of De Gaulle-
Giraud was not screened after the portrait
of the King.
Who knows where this spontaneous
outburst may end? As “God Save” alone
is apparently insufficient, we may antici-
pate a regular musical recital, including
“King Farouk,” “The Maori’s Farewell,”
“Partant Pour la Syrie” and “The Inter-
nationale.”—Gunner (A.1.F.).
Why complain about the indifference
of wage-earners who cannot be made to
see the urgency of sustained effort and
the necessity of investing every spare
pound in war loans when all our propa-
ganda is calculated to produce the oppo-
site effect? Our losses are minimised and
our victories whooped up beyond their
true value. Anything that might disturb
“morale” is reduced or so well glossed
over that even the colossal defeat at Dun-
kirk was made to look like a victory.
The people are now weary of that
brand of propaganda ; only the "ab-
normal swallow it straight Soothmg-
syrup experts have overreached them-
selves.
Here is a sample straight from the front
page of Melbourne “Herald” (20/11/’43).
It is about the German Army in Italy:
Some of the divisions are known to be
battle-weary and under strength. Three
second-rate divisions recently arrived on the
Italian front. The 94th Division includes
a large number of young, inexperienced
soldiers. Prisoners say it is equipped with
obsolete weapons and undersized mortars.
Sounds like a pushover. Our well-fed,
highly-equipped, experienced and ably-
led soldiers know it is nothing of the kind.
Propaganda of that type is an insult
to our intelligence and a much greater
one to the soldiers who have to fight a
tough, efficient enemy. — Footwall (Vic.).
End of a Controversy
“Plain Englishman” (B. 1 /12/’43) says
the anti-British sentiment in Australia is
due to “the disproportionate Irish influ-
ence in Australian culture and politics,
both sectional and sectarian.” As a
descendant of Irish parents with three
sons in the A.1.F., I am surprised at such
a statement.
This superiah person drags in Sir
Thomas Beecham and H. G. Wells as
sample victims of Australian resentment.
Beecham the other day got into trouble
with the Canadians over his critical, high-
falutin utterances in their dominion. H. G.
Wells has come out as a dyed-in-the-wool
"It's a pretty state of affairs when I’VE got to take on the whole
Jap Air Force."
sectarian bigot recently in England. Surely
we Australians have a right to resent the
impertinences of visitors to our shores
if they can’t behave themselves like
gentlemen.
Sons and grandsons of Irishmen were
too busy at Tobruk and in Greece to
bother about the sensitivities of superior
breeds. They are now too intent
on watching the jungle enemy in front
to pay much attention to the mud-
slinger coming at them from behind
Jack Malone (N.S.W.).
Italians
There is a tendency, observable in
several magazines and newspapers, to
feature what appears to be subtle propa-
gcindct in favor of Italians. We lead that
Italian prisoners of war working in
the country have ingratiated them-
selves into the favor of their em-
ployers by reason of their likeable
temperament and virtuous behavior ; that
Italians are basically a more democratic
and freedom-loving people than the Ger-
mans (a point most certainly open to dis-
pute) ; and that in the matter of post-
war treatment it behoves us to deal
leniently with the poor, disillusioned, mis-
guided but repentant Italian people.
It is possible that this whitewashing of
Italian character may be intended to re-
concile Australians to the prospect of
opening their gates to a large quota of
Italian immigrants, should it be con-
sidered necessary to solve Italy’s popu-
lation problems by a scheme of post-war
emigration to less densely populated
countries.
In connection with the part Australia
may be called upon to play in any such
scheme, the following points shomd be
noted:
(1) There are fundamental differences in out-
look between Northern and Southern Europeans,
most particularly in the sphere of morality.
A significantly large proportion of Italians is
shown to have participated in organised vice
rings in both Great Britain and the U.S.A.
(2) It is doubtful whether the character ana
qualifications of most Italians fit them or
arduous pioneering work; in any case, numbers
would be irresistibly attracted to the cities,
Italians on the whole being an urban race.
The bulk of Italian population in the U.S.A.
appears to be concentrated in the cities.
(3) The point has already been made (B.
13 /10/ ’43) that Italians lack racial •stamina.
Whether they fought' on the side ot tne
angels, as at Caporetto, or on the opposi e
side, as in North Africa during the present war,
their military performance was pathetic. In
view of the danger of future wars in the acilic
we cannot afford to have national morale
weakened by a large infusion of Italian stock.
Men of the Australian Forestry Unit, which has
just returned from 34 years’ service in T?rea
Britain, are emphatic in the assertion that large
numbers of good solid Scotch people are oi y
too willing to emigrate to Australia, given the
opportunity. This is the stock we should e
courage.
(4) Italians on the whole have been used to
a lower standard of living, and such peoples
flourish parasitically on communities with a
higher standard. They also lend themselves
easily to economic exploitation by the un-
scrupulous.
(5) Inescapable hostility towards Italians is
rife among men returned from the Middle Bast.
Similar anti-Italian sentiment is well dittusea
through the Eighth Army. This animosity must
be considered an important factor in deciding
the question of Italian immigration into this
country. It is interesting to note that in a
recent copy of “Guinea Gold” prominence was
given to a statement made by the R.S.L. con-
demning the whole policy in the past ol Italian
settlement in Australia.
—A. G. McC. AND D. H. (A.1.F.).
Income Tax and H.C.L.
The principal factor in present high
living costs is the high rate of income tax.
Before the war the maximum income
tax was 12s. lOd. in the £. To make a
profit of £1 on an article which cost him
£3 the large taxpayer had to sell at £5 16s.
Today the maximum income tax is
18s. 6d. in the £. To sell a similar article,
assuming it could be bought for £3 (which
is highly improbable), at £1 profit it
would be necessary to charge £l6 6s. Bd.
Today, for all requirements, the house-
holder pays at the increased ratio of £l6
6s. Bd. to £5 165., nearly three to one.
Is it not evidence that all the other
factors put together can have little effect
on the cost of living?— A. D. B. Rowley
(N.S.W.). _____
Zone Income Tax
Now that zoning is in favor with Gov-
ernment departments, how about zones
for income-tax rates in their after-the-
war schemes, with the idea that the
further away one lives from the cities
the less one pays?
At present all contribute on an equal
basis, but as distance from the cities in
creases so Government expenditure de-
creases until in the outback it is prac-
tically nil. A tapering-off of rates of in-
come tax as one gets further away from
the cities would probably do much for
decentralisation.—L. L. A. (S.A.).
On the Farm Front
Thanks for your cartoon and article
on the subject of the Farm Front (B.
1 /12 1 ’43). The Government at Canberra
is surprised that dinkum Diggers won’t
apply for their discharge in order that
they may undertake rural work. In this
Curtin, Forde and co. merely emphasise
their complete lack of appreciation of
esprit de corps in the army. The Digger
won’t desert his mates, even though he
knows how urgently he is wanted on his
farm.
Army Minister Forde can help him out
of the dilemma by adopting the scheme
forwarded to him by the Central Queens-
land Advancement League, so far not
acknowledged by him. Briefly, the scheme
is that a Special Army Reserve should
be formed at once. To this should be
transferred men over 35 who have been
taken out of rural industry and who have
had two years’ service in the army, pref-
erence being given to married men with
properties of their own. Conditions of
service in this Special Reserve should
include ( a ) the obligation to undertake
rural work ; ( b ) the obligation to report
to the nearest Area Officer personally or
by letter monthly ; (c) the obligation to
report to a specified depot at short notice
in case of need.
It is claimed that under this scheme the
actual strength and efficiency of the army
would not be impaired, and that at least
part of the labor needed would be pro-
vided. Men transferred from front-line
units would immediately be replaced by
men now in training depots. In case of
need reservists would report to those same
depots. They would be in excellent phy-
sical condition, and they are already
trained.— Rocker (Q.).
Discouraging Home-buyers
Your reference (B. 1/12/’43) to a pro-
posed “severe form of compulsion to be
applied to ‘speculators’ in real estate” en-
courages me to state a case.
A Melbourne businessman has had his
ideal home picked out for the last few
years, but has been unable to persuade
the owners to sell. They at last capitu-
lated, and in high glee he wrote to Can-
berra for permission to purchase. He
informed the powers that he held £5OOO
in war loan, and that this home would
set him back £7OOO.
In reply to this request he was curtly
informed that he was at liberty to pur-
chase this home for £7OOO if he was pre-
pared to take up an equal amount of war
loan (this, of course, in addition to the
£5OOO he holds). Not being a black
marketeeer or munitioneer, he is unable
to produce £14,000, and in consequence
must sit back and see his projected family
residence pass into other hands.
Surely a genuine home-buyer deserves
a better fate? —B. T. (Vic.).
Harder Exams.
One has only to consult the papers and
pass lists of Uni. exams, to discover that
in nearly all subjects the standard has
been raised considerably since war broke
out.
It is often necessary, when students are
being trained with a view to their enter-
ing special jobs connected with the war
effort, that their course should cover
ground which was formerly not included
in the curriculum, but in such cases
something else should be deleted. A
chemist with a sound training in the fun-
damentals of his subject is of more use
to a munitions project than one who is
less well grounded because he had to
devote an excessive amount of time to
mathematics and physics. — Tonsi (Tas.).
Discussion Circles Needed
From time to time The Bulletin splen-
didly handles such questions as the
Second Front and others on which ill-
trained minds form hasty and erroneous
judgments. In every little hamlet in the
country, on every fair-sized job and in
every factory unschooled brains are ex-
pressing rash ideas in which more experi-
enced, better educated or more logical
companions find much to deplore ; though
often, lacking exact information them-
selves, they are unablq to correct impetu-
ous friends who use their tongues with
so much more zeal than discretion.
Would it not be a great help to the
diffusion of more sensible notions if in
every village a few thoughtful folk could
gather to discuss, without prejudice or
party bias, public questions on which
sound knowledge is still lacking? Usually
where a number of people are congre-
gated there are one or more with
special knowledge of certain issues
and others professing a competence to
criticise the same. Such folk would prob-
ably give their views readily, and if
specious, plausible, sophistical reasoning
was resolutely frowned upon, such a jury
could deliver, not an infallible judgment,
but such good advice as reasonable people
could respectfully consider. Though this
would not check the ranter, it might
sustain many a plodding citizen of our
countryside.— Peripatetic (S.A.).


STEEL...
the first thought
new world builders
:A. J.'
MmMmm .
•
mm
f.
A.:- -
mt
■
SI
■
Hi
■
fe
: H
191
HH
; :
■
JV-
'; ; ■■
■
t&Mm
.
i-*X- ■•••■ :
■III
... ?s
mm
m
Part of steel s contribution to the war effort. One of the famous twenty-five pounders, made
entirely in Australia.
r \ k ■
Njr..
1
i
A
g.
This modern equipment will help to pu
Australia back to work on a peacetime basis.
The Twentieth Century is an age of steel.
Without it, no country has been able to
develop on modern lines. It is the founda-
tion on which progress has been built.
Thirty years ago, Australia imported her
steel. Freight charges made steel very dear
by the time it reached Australia.
This factor hindered our development as a
great nation. It restricted- employment and
made the job of building Australia into a
great industrial nation an almost impossible
task.
So a group of Australians set out to build
an Australian steel industry. Their organ-
isation was known as the Broken Hill
Proprietary.
Many people regarded their attempt as
futile. They predicted nothing but failure.
But, nothing discouraged these men, because
they believed sincerely in what they were
doing. Looking ahead, they saw Australian
steel building a new Australia.
They saw Australian shipyards turning out
vessels second to none in the world. They
saw railroads stretching to the far horizon,
with every rail the product of Australian
labour. I hey saw the steel skeletons of
mighty buildings pushing into the sky.
And because they were men of vision, they
saw in the future the day when Australian
steel in Australian guns, would growl defi-
ance at an invader.
Their dream came true, in every respect.
loday, if we look around us, and see what
steel has meant to our development, and
consider what it will mean to our future
progress, we can be very thankful indeed
to the men who started the Australian steel
industry.
m
mm
w*mii r " •■' l
JI" n *>", .
mim hh <*•"!!! i*. *’
m im. •».«fc- lWrlff -
■ m ■ >" -w it rll* Mi
Steel framed buildings are the pattern of the future. Australia has the
%
m
■ .. ■
loAvest priced steel in the world to encourage building.
i ■
mm
k - 1:
■ . .
M
Is
ilil
■■ ■ :
, - - V
■
■
H
m
Speed is essential to Australia’s long lines of communication. These
engines that are being built here will give us speed.
m.
v -\iT K*
/r
m
s
3
<a *T^ BBB
An island nation depends on its Mercantile Marine in peace or war. B.H.P.
steel has helped to establish our own ship-building industry.
Steel spanned the harbour in Sydney and helped in the development of
all our communications.
