

m
v.
The Bulletin
“The Bulletin,” VoL 64.~~N0. 3317
Wednesday, September 8, 1943
Price 6d.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.
Seppelts
CASTLE KENNEDY.
'"PHE family name bestowed on the castle of which these
are the relics is one that has long been prominent in
Scottish history.
Fme- Wigtown to the Toon o' Ayr,
And lakh doon by the Cruives o' Cree,
Let na<’ man think to harbour there.
Unless he court the Kennedie.
David, Lord Kennedy, the first Earl of Cassilis, fell on Flodden
field in 1513. The third Earl, Gilbert, was lord high treasurer
under Mary, but was poisoned in France while arranging the
marriage between Mary Queen of Scots and the Dauphin. The
fourth Earl was known as the King of Garrick. Later, in the
time of Cromwell, John, the sixth Earl, occupied the office of
lord justice clerk. In 1759 the eighth Earl died and there was
a dispute over the title and estates. These were given by
the House of Lords to Sir Thomas Kennedy, who thus became
the ninth Earl of Cassilis. In 1831 the twelfth Earl was made
Marquess of Ailsa, and Earl of Cassilis has since been the title
of the oldest son. Old Castle Kennedy, its rich history inter-
twined with that of .Scotland, was partly destroyed by fire in
1716, and has never been rebuilt, although to this day the
ruins are a Mecca for Scots returning to visit their native land.


w
This Book FREE to YOU!
STOTT’S CORRESPONDENCE COLLEGE.
100 Russell Street, Melbourne.
CUT HERE AND MAIL
Please send, without obligation, your New Free
ISooklet explaining how to Write jor Profit, a*
advertised m the Sydney “Bulletin.”
My Name
My Address
S.B. 143 ..
AGE
S. H. PRIOR PRIZE
For reasons already stated, there
will be no competition inviting sub-
mission of MSS. for the duration of
the war at least.
As no award was made in the
competition which closed on June 6
this year, the total prize-money
offered for the current competition
is £2OO.
The Prize will be awarded to the
author or authors of the book by an
Australian writer which the trustees
consider the most valuable contribu-
tion to Australian literature pub-
lished in Australia between June 6,
1943, and June 6, 1944. ("Aus-
tralia” and “Australian” for the
purposes of this award include New
Zealand.)
No work that has already won a
monetary prize will be eligible.
The Red Page
LENNIE AND LITTLE NELL.
The article on “The Great Australian
Myth” (R.P. 4/8/ ’43) dealt with a speci-
fically Australian problem. If the present
failure of the novel in this country is
partly or largely due to a confusion of
values —as seems probable—some account
should also be taken of overseas trends
and influences which are affecting Aus-
tralian writers.
Among the most important of these is
the pseudo-realism of the Hemingway-
Steinbeck school.
To assess this cult at its true value in
relation to the great tradition of the
novel, it is first of all necessary to realise
that it is only superficially “new.” The
cry today for toughness and “realism”
had its counterpart in the studio wot Id
of my youth in the ’nineties when the
slogan was “Art should not arouse
emotion.”
In those compact terms the ruthless
realism of the ’nineties renounced the
sloppy sentimentalism of the ’seventies
and ’eighties. The pivotal swing over
from one generation to another was in
violent action. An outlook on the novel
which set out deliberately to evoke an
emotional response from the reader was
being rejected for the reverse outlook
which assumed to detach both reader and
writer from any personal emotion what-
ever in the content of the novel.
Zola was the high priest of the new
evangel, and he fathered into being a
mass of gloomy and overloaded type
matter which has now sunk by its own
dead weight into the murk it came from.
At this date we may recall a few of
its exponents who still survive on our
bookshelves, such as Hardy, George
Moore, Gissing, but the lesser realists
of the ’nineties are as far beyond recall
as the sentimentalists of the ’seventies.
Both existed on a premise which must
always defeat survival in any art. They
accepted a ready-made outlook on life,
and thereby discarded the first of all
virtues in a writer, an individual and
personal concept of life.
Like all slogans that confine art to a
formula, the one that denounced art
which aroused emotion failed to specify
what sort of emotion art should not
arouse. What it meant by emotion, of
course, was that uprush of sensibility in
a reader which brings a tear to the eye
and a sob to the larynx, and therein we
must affirm its rejection of such fustian
commerce between writer and reader.
But in its haste to tub-thump a new
doctrine, it overlooked the fact that it
was merely substituting one brand of
emotion for another. If depression is
not an emotion, what is it?
And those ruthless realists of the
’nineties sank their readers into an abyss
of gloom which was just as ignominious
a subjection to emotion as that which
wiped the tear from its eye and sought
to swallow its Adam’s apple.
We can take it as an inevitable law
that each generation will reverse the out-
look of the generation that preceded it.
The ultra-sentimentality of Richardson,
Fanny Burney and The Man of Senti-
ment forced into action the robustious-
ness of Fielding, Smollett and Marryat.
Dickens picked up the tail-end of
robustiousness in Pickwick Papers, but
quickly allowed the sociological human-
ism of his generation to intrude on his
work. Humanism only partly succeeded
in demoralising Dickens, but it swamped
all the lesser writers of his period, from
Charles Reade to Mrs. Braddon, who
were ousted by the realism of the
’nineties, which is now petering out in
the pseudo-realism of the Hemingway-
Steinbeck school.
And that school, we now see, is on a
swing back to the sentimentalism of the
’seventies and ’eighties.
Certainly the volte-face is camouflaged
under an ostentatious pretence of tough-
ness. It has searched life for all brutali-
ties of action ; the people’s idiom for all
crudities of speech; and pathological
textbooks for abnormalities of human
behavior. It has chosen the criminal and
the moron, the gangster, the prizefighter,
the bullfighter, the negro, t the under-
world generally as the symbols of
martyred and suffering mankind. Since
Faulkner’s infamous Popeye of Sanc-
tuary we have had an almost constant
succession of such works: Light in
August, The Postman Always Knocks
Twice, To Have and to Have Not, Of
Mice and Men, Native Son ...
The subject matter of these works
might be good enough material for the
novel except for the peculiar ingredient
of horror they inspire. Horror can be
a legitimate objective in a writer, and
may excite a pleasing thrill of excitement
in a reader, as many ingenious horror-
writers from Poe to Arthur Machen have
demonstrated. But the horror inspired
by the tough-school gentry is anything
but pleasing, and comes very close to
that contraction of the stomach and
throat muscles which fights down a sen-
sation of physical nausea.
I think I can count myself a fairly
hardened reader, but I cannot find a
parallel anywhere in the whole range of
literature for the peculiar sense of
physical disgust that these works of the
tough-school writers force one to enter-
tain.
It comes from two sources. One is
the absorbed interest of the writers
themselves in the mindless underworld
of the primitive human biped, and the
other is the demand for a sympathetic
and sentimental bridge between the
reader and these subhuman denizens of
the jungle. And here it is that we find
the tough school of today swivelling
back to the sob school of the ’seventies.
Little Nell, of course, is the standard
symbol of all that is obnoxious in the
false sentiment of Dickens’s era. And,
of course, we hastily skip the Little Nell
sections of The Old Curiosity Shop to
get on with the magnificent entertainment
of Quilp, Dick Swiveller and the Mar-
chioness, Sampson and Sally Brass ; for,
after all. Little Nell occupies very little
space in the novel.
We know that Dickens basely imposed
Little Nell on us in deference to the
popular taste of his generation. But if
she offends a sophisticated good taste, she
does not revolt its stomach. At the worst
she is merely a meek, slightly idiotic
small girl of a pleasing exterior, and, by
the art of skipping, we need not allow
her to intrude on our exultation over the
superb, sardonic, satanic projection of
Daniel Quilp.
In effect. Little Nell is already dumped,
along with tons of printed matter record-
ing the deaths of sentimental heroines of
the ’seventies, on Apollo’s rubbish tip:
the fate of all false values in art.
But let us turn to a Little Nell of the
tough school. Lennie, from Steinbeck's
Of Mice and Men, will do.
No nice, meek, small girl here —the
tough school knows too much to be
caught out on an old worked-out wheeze
like that. As the popular sentiment ot
its decade is all for the sad lot of the
poor martyred underdog, we have for
Little Nell’s reincarnation a slobbering,
overgrown, infantile moron who squeezes
mice to death in his pockets, throttles a
woman and is eventually shot by his dear
friend lest the cruel law catch up with
him and put a stop to his sadistic antics.
And this revolting creature is presented
to us in an idiom of emotional tender-
ness ; the strong-man tough-writer chok-
ing back a sob on every page.
We know that the jungle has overrun
modern art in all its facets, but its urge
in the renegade subconscious was never
more innocently exposed than in the
tough-school’s effort to impose the killer
on us as its chosen symbol of suffering
mankind. It can only be explained in
pathological terms as the desire to kill
foreshadowing the holocaust of killing
which has overtaken the world today.
But the war, by restoring to us the
image of heroic man, will by that alone
sweep aside all this maundering over
sentimentalised sadism.
Nevertheless, this sentimental “realism”
remains a danger to oncoming writers
who are unable to see life except from
this false outlook of the Hemingway-
Steinbeck school.
For the premise of the average modern
novel still is that the underdog is the
martyr of a ruthless capitalistic system
and that suffering in itself constitutes a
state of moral worth in the sufferer.
Which is to say that a capacity to con-
quer in the struggle for existence is im-
moral and the courage that laughs in
the face of suffering a worthless virtue.
In short, we are back at that drivelling
sentiment of the ’seventies which stig-
matised the wicked rich and exalted the
suffering poor: the theme of countless
defunct novels of that era and surviving
only in the worst novel Dickens wrote,
Hard limes.
Not one of the works of the Heming-
way-Steinbeck school really projects
truthfully, and with ironic detachment,
a concept of the underdog. The
works capitalise popular sentiment; and,
because popular sentiment always loves
to pipe its eye and choke back a sdb or
two, it is being given all this foolery of
sentimentalised sadism over the criminal,
the moron and the underdog generally.
As a movement, ' pseudo-realism is
already dead. In its passing it may pro-
voke a too violent recoil from its ultra-
brutal idiom to an ultra-niceness and
preciousness of outlook on the spectacle
of life; in short, a reversion from loath-
some Lennie to pretty Little Nell.
NORMAN LINDSAY.
A Book Collector's
Purgatory.
I died on November 23 and was buried
two days later. On February 11 the
following year I was present at the sale of
my books.
It came about this way. While on
earth I had drawn up a lengthy docu-
ment outlining just how the several thou-
sand volumes of my library were to be
disposed of. The main body was to be
sold, the proceeds to go to my wife and
children.
I had bought enough bargains at
auction to realise the futility of allowing
ray collection to be lumped, willy-nilly,
into lots and sold at a few shillings a
bundle. So I had catalogued my first
editions (indicating the market price per
copy), my private presses, autographed
copies and limited editions so that they
would not be bought by a bargain-hunt-
ing mob of Philistines. My friends had
counselled me to have the document
drawn up in approved legal fashion. “I’m
quite content to leave my instructions in
the hands of my wife and children,” I
grandly replied.
Now, as I stretched my shade full
length on the clouds outside the Judg-
ment Gate, I just longed to have another
peep at my beloved books before I faced,
for good or ill, the corridors of eternity.,
I was hurried forward to a curtain of
cloud emblazoned “St. Peter.” I barged
through and stood in the presence of the
Fisherman. Even then I was thinking
of my books, and St. Peter read me
like one,
“Perhaps I don’t fully appreciate your
position,” he said after we had discussed
the matter for a few minutes. “We did
not have books in my day. Now if you
had been worried about bait or sinkers or
holes in your net”
“Ah, yes, St. Peter —if only you saw
my rare edition of Walton’s Angler you’d
be sad to think how it might be lost in a
shilling bundle.”
“I never could understand the fuss
they have made about angling,” replied
St. Peter. “Now if somebody wrote a
book about fishing with the net
“Well,” he continued, “you are evi-
dently worried about your books and we
don’t want wrinkles under haloes. You’ve
got 15 years of purgatory booked up
for you. What I was thinking, though,
was that, in consideration of the little
footnote here on your record card saying
that you once gave a rare book to the
Churchill Auctions —a supreme act of
self-denial —we will, before you enter
purgatory, allow you to go back to earth
and attend the sale of your books.”
I arrived just in time.
The auctioneer was on his stand, the
room was crowded and around the walls,
in their magnificent thousands, were —
my books.
While the auctioneer was reading the
terms of sale I had a hurried look around.
Even the first bundle told me that the
worst had happened. There, carelessly
tied with three colonial editions of the
early twentieth century, was a signed de
luxe edition of De la Mare!
Hurriedly I passed on to the next, and
the next, and the fearful clashing of the
mediocre with the extremely rare was
perpetrated with sinister persistence.
A beautiful signed copy of Max Beer-
bohm’s Happy Hypocrite was ruthlessly
strung with a bundle of detective novels ;
a Kelmscott was cheek by jowl with a
horde of my children’s school books; a
full leather copy of Locker Lampson’s
Lyra Elegantiarum (pride of my minia-
tures) was lumped with a lot of tattered
prayer-books ; two of the three volumes
of my half-vellum signed edition of
Hardy’s Dynasts (where in thunder was
the third volume?) were clamped almost
to breaking point by ruthless twine to
a gardening manual.
So was the awful error of my home-
made disposal directions perpetuated. I
was about to be butchered to make a
bookman’s holiday.
The sale began.
The first bundle went for a shilling,
the next for two shillings, the third no
bid at all, so it was lumped with the
fourth, which contained two signed
Austin Dobsons. The lot went for
three shillings ; and so the massacre con-
tinued.
As is usual with collectors, the glut of
bargains made them greedy, and shortly
the auctioneer was accepting sixpenny
rises. When two bundles of The Home
Doctor went for one shilling I prayed
for just one strong earthly yell of protest
because I saw sandwiched among them a
priceless small vellum copy of Blake’s
Songs. There was something fiendish
about the whole business, for all my
library discards, hoarded in the basement
of my house, were deliberately mixed
among the fine books of my library
proper.
My worst enemy, Blades, the second-
hand bookseller, was biggest buyer.
At times I hoped he would collapse
under the great excitement of the harvest
he was reaping. But no, he stayed to the
end when most of the buyers, gorged to
satiation, had staggered away loaded with
my treasures of a lifetime’s gathering.
The final 50 bundles, which included a
signed Henry Lawson, Norman Lindsay’s
Book (No. 1 signed), my firsts of Henry
James, my Stevensonia and my Mere-
dithiana, were slaughtered at sixpence a
bundle.
Just at the moment when the auctioneer
was thanking the miserable few then
present for their attendance, I felt a tap
on my shoulder. An angel was observ-
ing me with great sadness.
“I think we had better return.”
I bowed my head and wept.
“Yes,” added the angel, “some of us
have been watching and thought you
could hardly make the journey.”
I did not remember anything more
until I found myself once more in the
presence of St. Peter.
“Enter!” he said, throwing open the
gates of Paradise. “Your purgatory is
over —you have suffered enough.”
PAT LAWLOR.
“F.S.”: A show of London fire-blitz
photographs at the Myer Mural Hall
in Melbourne engenders thoughts on
the current attempts to depict this
war and war artists in general. The
prints are immense some four feet
by three —and it would be difficult to
imagine a more vivid record of the
drama, tragedy and horror of the busi-
ness. The camera lens hasn’t any senti-
mental prejudices, school conventions
or academic notions of design and com-
position to stand between it and its sub-
ject matter, and most professional photo-
graphers regard themselves not as
artists but as reporters. Consequently the
observer may not get art, but he gets
more information from these unpreten-
tious prints than from all the pictures
of the official war artists put together.
The o.w.a. may have been in peace-time
a landscape painter, or he may have made
a reputation for painting fashionable por-
traits. When Mars becomes his model
he just doesn’t know what to make of
him.
“W.8.R.”: In the Red Page review of
James Gould Cozzens’s The Just and the
Unjust (B. 11/8/’43) there occurs this
line: “The author writes as if he’s a
lawyer himself.” In The Last Adam, a
superb character story (ineptly done oyer
for the moving picture “Dr. Bull’ for
the late Will Rogers), Cozzens wrote as it
he were a doctor. In S.S. San Pedro, a
brilliant etching in prose, he wrote as it
he had been in the flames on the tragic s s.
Vestris. And again in Men and Brethren he
wrote as knowingly as if he had worn High
Church cloth all his life. I know of no
other instance where a modern writer
has so steeped himself in the motes ot
four varied callings that men who them-
selves follow the vocation say unhesitat-
ingly “This is true to our life.” Cozzens
will be recognised as one of the ablest
novelists that the period fiom 1925 to
1950 produce*.


"TRUTH IN ADVERTISING"
120th Year of Service
"THE SENIOR STORE"
"SUNDEK" FROCK
This ''Sundek'' Frock will not
crease. White embroidery
featured on collar and the
sleeves. Group of pleats
at the back and front of the
skirt. Colours are Blue,
Pink, also Tan. Price, 55/2
13 coupons.
I
“GRAFTON” FROCKS
AND “SUNDEK” FABRICS
“Grafton” Frocks arc guaranteed fadeless and unshrinkable to sun and wash
v
m
!
K
dK/-
m
/J
/71
r~fi I
STYLE 1: GRAFTON GRAFAINE. This frock has a cross-over front and two pockets on the skirt and
is obtainable in shades of Blue, Pink, Ash, Aqua and also Red with White spots. Price, 35/- and
13 coupons. STYLE 2: GRAFTON HOMEWEAVE. Two pockets are featured on the bodice of this
frock and the skirt has pleats. Colours are Blue, Pink, Green and Aqua. Sizes, SSW to W. Price,
37/11 and 13 coupons. STYLE 3; SUNDEK. A yoke is featured on the front of this style and the skirt is
gathered. Pastel Blue and Ash Pink. Sizes XSSW, SSW, SW. Price, 38/11 and 13 coupons.
w
"Meschell Fans
A step-in Court by Meschell
Paris. This is a square throat
model with straight stilt heels,
in Black Glace Kid. Price, 37/5
8 coupons.
Bengaline
Art Silk Gloves
Fancy Gloves of Bengaline Art
Silk in either Brown, White,
Black or Navy. Price, pair 4/11
3 coupons.
{M
rm\
LIGHTWEIGHT
EDGE-TO-EDGE
COAT
Spring Weight in Spring
Colours
The coat illustrated has two
stitched pockets and is
obtainable in shades of
Blue, Navy, Beige, Grey.
Size!, XSSW, SSW, W.
Price £2/16/8
19 coupons.
ANTHONY HORDERNS 9
FAMOUS UOW PMICES
PHONE: M 2401 (DAY AND NIGHT) BOX 2712 C, G.P.0., SYDNEY


AUSTRALIANS EAT AEROPLANE
By P. D. MANTLE.
THE morning shift knocked off and
went back to lunch. Lunch of
maize, rice and coffee. Tom and the
Corporal took over the observation
post, lowering themselves into the little
cavity which was shaded from sun and
observation by thatching of palm leaves,
buffalo-grass and dirt.
Tom propped the telescope on its
forked stick while the Corporal swept
the whole area with binoculars: the blue
waters of the bay, the coconut planta-
tions, the edge of the ricefields and the
glint of half-hidden white houses ; and
the distant airstrip—a stretch of green
with gleaming silver splashes that were
Zero fighter ’planes.
The Corporal said “This’d be a good
place but for the Japs.”
“And there’s close on thirty Japs here
for every one of us,” Tom said.
“No, there’s not. Not thirty to one.
I doubt if they’re more than twenty to
one now.”
Tom unhooked his eye from the tele-
scope. “Only twenty, eh? In that case
the war’s as good as over. After all,
what’s twenty Japs?”
“Nineteen more than I want.”
“We’ll eat ’em up in no time —maybe.”
There was no resignation in Tom’s
voice, no despair. Just the irony that
comes to men who have fought a long
time unaided against big odds. Men such
as they, of the nth Independent Unit on
that little Pacific island so close to Aus-
tralia.
Bill the Corporal took the ’scope.
Distance shrank within the brass-bound
circle. And on the green strip by the
palm-trees the silver flashes became clear
pictures of sleek fighting ’planes. Zeros.
The same vicious killers that had swooped
at them so often with the chilling stutter
of guns. Five of them in a line.
From far away over the blue stretch
of sea came the drone of engines. Both
men listened, hoping for the steady hum
of Allied engines. But it was too much
to hope for. It was unmistakably Jap,
with that come-and-go sound of their
motors.
One, two, three . , , seven of them.
Zeros, too ; with the large red circle and
the small black ring near the tip. Seven
coming and five already—that made
twelve all told.
One by one the Nips peeled off and
landed.
From the building close by came the
Japanese ground crews, dressed in white
most of them. Solid little blokes who
moved at a bandy half-jog pace. They
fussed around the ’planes while the pilots
strode off towards the waiting cars. Over
each cockpit they stretched a tarpaulin
cover. Then they went back into the
building, where they slept. An air of
peace settled over the ’drome.
< i fj ELL,” said the Corporal, “it
N makes me mad to see them there.
Twelve perfectly good Zeros just waiting
to be bashed up, and we can’t do a thing
about it.”
Tom lit a filthy smoke of native
tobacco wrapped in maize-leaf, “Why?”
he said.
“Why what?”
“Why can’t we do a thing about it?”
“Well,” said Bill the Corp., “we’ve
only got four of us here and that’s not
enough men.”
“Could get ’em.”
“Eh?”
“You could send boongs with messages
to Dave’s crowd and the mob at Letoo-
too. They’d be here this time tomorrow.”
“Yes, but what could we do to the
’planes?”
“Burn ’em.”
“By cripes, Tom! We could, too.
They’ve got incendiaries back at Platoon.
And delayed-action igniters. By cripes,
yes! Sneak down at night and burn, the
lot. We could do it. Twelve men
the ’planes and three tommy-gunners' to
cover the place where the mechanic
blokes sleep. Hell, yes. We’ll do it, we’ll
doit!”
The Corporal twisted round and
yelled down the hill.
“One Mickaroo, one Tettacoli, one
Dettmaw —come quickly.”
He was writing as he talked. When the
three native servants came he gave each
his piece of paper and instructions.
“One Dettmaw, you understand?”
“Yes, Master.,”
“One Mickaroo, one Tettacoli, you
understand good?”
“Yes, Master.”
“Good. Go quickly.”
The three natives walked away.
Bill was so excited at the prospect of
the stunt that he could hardly concen-
trate on the telescope. Tom rolled
another smoke. Then yard by yard they
considered the best way in which to
tackle the job. Mentally they descended
the hill, followed the spur around and
descended again on the far side. Skirt
the ricefield, through that bit of scrub
and on to the far end of the ’drome.
Better not use the drains the Japs had
dug just off the runway. They’d give a
good approach, but in all probability
they’d be mined or booby-trapped as a
protection. Best not to do the obvious
thing.
Every single relevant detail the Cor-
poral put down in writing : what time
the moon came up; which way the
shadows would be pointing ; what hills
would give them bearings if they split
up on the homeward journey; skylines
to dodge ; cover to be used—everything
that would increase their chance of being
returned soldiers.
Then he called the other two men of
his party. Their lives would be risked
in the stunt, so their opinion was asked
on the planning of it.
Johnny Nash knew of a native village
near the intended track. A village meant
dogs, and dogs meant an alarm. The
route was altered accordingly.
Nightfall came too soon, for with
nightfall observation ceased. But the fol-
lowing morning they were all on the
0.P., checking again and again every pos-
sible move of the night’s adventure.
THE Australians from Letootoo
arrived before midday, bringing with
them two chickens which they shared
with the others.
By three o’clock the group from the
next O.P. had made the distance. Both
crowds must have started early and
travelled fast; for the stunt was one after
their own hearts. Risk —yes, but a rea-
sonable chance of a successful job with-
out casualties. And how annoyed the
Japs would be!
Bill the Corp. explained the general
idea.
“This isn’t a killing-parade, chaps. Our
principal idea is to destroy the ’planes by
burning them. Twelve Zeros, each bloke
tackling one, and three tommy-gunners
to be ready to mow down the Yip-yaps if
they hear us and try to spoil the fun.
“We’re using delayed-action incen-
daries —three-hour. And we hope to do
the job and get out and back before they
even know we’ve been there. No good
trying to beat them up as well. We’ll
only rouse them from their beauty sleep,
and we’d have to get out sooner or later
because they can have two thousand men
there within twenty minutes. Go in, do
the job, get out and then sit back to
watch the fun. Oke?”
They nodded, grunted or answered
according to taste.
“Right, then ; I’ll detail, every man’s
job to him. Everyone listen in so that
you’ll all be in the picture.”
An hour later their plans were all
arranged. Men began to prepare them-
selves for the night’s entertainment:
faces blackened, grenades checked,
tommy-guns rubbed with pig fat, rounds
cleaned and magazines carefully loaded.
By that time Platoon had sent up the
gear that was asked for, together with
its blessing for the stunt.
By some strange process of thought-
reading and bush-telegraph, a near-by
native chief had guessed that there was
something on the go, for he sent dne of
his headmen and an offsider. The off-
sider carried three gourds of native fire-
water, and the headman suggested in the
rather stilted language of his people that,
though the Australies were brave, the
drink would make them even braver.
Rum ration. Pacific island brand.
Shortly after dusk they set off in single
file down the native track. Encroaching
bushes whipped their faces, loose stones
strained their ankles and mosquitoes built
up a fine balance of blasphemy to be
expended later.
The Corporal, in the lead, suddenly
disappeared from view with a splash that
sounded like a regiment diving. He
beckoned them into the creek, and on the
far side of the water they sat down for
a spell. Though barely an hour had
passed it was already dark.
“Have a smoke now, boys,” whispered
the Corporal. “We’re well below ground
level, and I reckon we’ve earned it. But
this’ll be the last for a bit. Only one
man strike a match —righto ; you, Sam
—the rest light off each other.”
IN silence they smoked, each man with
1 his own thoughts. A whispered word
and they rose, silently following the
blacker shape in the blackness ahead.
Skirting the ricefields was slow work
but flat going. A few hundred yards
and they would be on the darkened
’drome.
Again they stopped as the Corporal
raised his hand; they sank slowly to
each side of the track, and then passed
around the gourds of native firewater.
Through the patch of scrub and on to
the grass of the aerodrome.
The Corporal, who had picked for
himself the machine nearest to the Jap
hut, edged forward, low to the ground.
He was unhampered by weapons.
Slowly, slowly forward, his heart
swelling till it almost choked him, his
breath caught in his throat and his fingers
numb and clumsy. Slowly, so slowly.
Low to the ground, he could see sky-
lined the first of the Zeros, but they
were not for him. He was edging past
the first when a black shape on the
ground came within his vision. The
shock of it turned him sick. Was it a
Jap? Had they been wrong in their cal-
culations and observation after all —was
there a man sleeping alongside each
’plane as well as those in the building?
Would the others of his dozen try to
do the job without waking the Japs or
would they use their knives for a silent
killing?
He drew the knife from its leg-sheath
and crawled forward to the inert black
shape.
A moment later he could have cried
with relief. The blackness was a folded
waterproof sheet.
Thankfully he crawled on.
At last he reached his own particular
target. Lying flat he pulled out his in-
cendiary and time igniter, set the simple
contrivance working and slowly raised
himself. The point of his knife in the
cockpit cover, and then the Zero entered
into its last three hours of life.
Slowly down, and then the journey
back.
Going in the strain had been all in
his chest and throat. Crawling out it was
different. He had the feeling that some-
one with pliers was pulling at the base of
his spine. Weakness came over him, a
feeling that is always with a man as he
moves slowly away from his enemy.
He saw the scrub loom up before him.
Strange how the shelter of the smallest
bush was comforting after being in the
open. He lay there for a moment, breath-
ing deeply.
Then on to the meeting place.
Seven of the boys were there when he
arrived. No word was spoken, but each
one gave the nod which indicated suc-
cess on his job. They waited. And
almost behind the Corporal came in the
brothers Smedley, who managed some-
how always to be together. Within ten
minutes they were all there.
BILL the Corp. touched Sam upon the
arm, and Sam gave his famous imita-
tion of the tree-lizard. The signal
croaked out across the ’drome — chuck-
arr chuck-arr —in that peculiar falling
cadence as though the beast was getting
bored with the sound of its own voice.
Nine times he called, as the lizards mostly
do. But tKere was just a slight pause
between each three so that his call could
be recognised.
The call would be heard by the tommy-
gunners, and they would withdraw along
a different track, and rendezvous back at
the creek. The twelve moved on.
At the creek they stopped again for a
smoke. Still there was no talking. But
men were smirking at each other with
satisfaction, and Tom was humming to
himself.
Time dragged on. It was now an
hour since they had put in their tools
of sabotage, and still there was no sign
of the other three along the track. Then
there was the sound of splashing, and
three shapes were seen moving upstream.
The whole file moved on, uphill, up-
hill. They paused for a spell. And as
though it had been waiting for its cue
the moon sailed over a distant hill and
spread its cold beauty upon the night.
On the skyline they smoked and
waited.
Just before three o’clock the curtain
went up.
First a faint glow—two of them, three,
five, six!
Then one ’plane took fire properly.
Flames leaped up. And so did the
Japanese. Even from a distance they
could be seen as an agitated white blur,
hurrying across the few yards that
separated their hut from the ’planes. Evi-
dently they meant to push the other
’planes out of the danger area.
But just at the ideal moment ammuni-
tion caught alight in the burning ’plane.
The Australians were as excited as
children at a pantomime.
“There’s our two!” said the Smedley
brothers as two more columns of flame
shot up.
“Come on, you beauts!”
“Stay with ’em, Nips!”
“Where’s y’r bloody fire-engine?”
“That’s the lot now, boys,” said Bill
the Corp. “Twelve of the cows. O
boy, O boy! I bet there’s a few blokes
shot over this.”
“Yair. And just think of the Japs
having double guards all over the place
now. Watching like a lot of constipated
hawks while we are sleeping in our little
beds.”
The speaker slapped the shoulder of
Tom, who had been saying nothing during
the excitement. “Stop your bloomin’
crooning, Tom. You’ve been doing it
all night. ‘Avalon’ it’s called, isn’t it?”
“Yair. Only I call it ‘Avion’—aero-
plane. Fire has eaten avion.”
“Hey, listen to this!” said someone.
“Tom’s made up a song about it in
nigger lingo. Let’s have it, Tom.”
And Tom sang in his almost toneless
voice:
Fire has eaten aeroplane
Good, excellent
Australians twelve
Eat up aeroplane
Australians three wait
Near Japanese
Japanese no good.
DAYLIGHT was breaking as they
reached their camp. Waiting to wel-
come the returning Masters were their
native servants and men from a near-by
village. They had found out the words
of Tom’s song in their own language. In
voices less musical than that of the com-
poser they sang it in welcome.
And through the day their voices
droned on: —
Fire has eaten aeroplane
Good, excellent
Australians twelve
Eat up aeroplane
Australians three wait
Near Japanese
Japanese no good.
But the Australians did not hear them.
They were asleep. For the Jap does not
sit down kindly under such an affront,
and he would soon be on their trail. To-
morrow or earlier the game would be on.
For how long? World without end. But
it was no good worrying. You just got
your six-and-six a day whether you
worried or not. They slept.
Convalescent Depot, New Guinea.
Surely, of all war’s fields
this is the most unreal.
Northward, within the hidden folds of the hills,
rain-wrapped, mist-shrouded,
green as ocean depths,
quiet has long-since fallen on the trails
that once were noisy with danger.
The final battle is won by vine and leaf
and the effacing rain.
Even in the high air .
no sign or sound suggests, as once it did,
proximity of death.
The voyagers in that sea
are those whose business is known
to our indifferent gaze;
we watch strange birds with keener interest,
catch butterflies and carefully mount them
for friends at home.
Around us, the tides of war
roll and retire on the crumbling cliffs of armies,
but not for us
who learn of them in the broadcast
or the news-sheet,
like serial-addicts, or civilians riding to work
on the morning tram.
Glory and horror,
war’s twin sisters, may ride
magnificently the sandstorm or the sea;
our sons and brothers bleed and conquer and die
in the great tradition,
writing their deeds daily on some new soil.
But all is quiet here,
like a Sunday in town,
and we watch the war and the warriors
on a news-reel ten weeks old,
and give them a cheer —
but it dies in our rusty throats.
For us there is no stand-to '
and the hot breath of danger
and the knowing (though it is not spoken)
that you live an hour of greatness
on the world’s stage
with history’s camera-man shooting the scene;
nor the swift reprieve
of afternoons of peace
and nights of joy
that the brave take without sin
in the battle’s shadow.
For us there are only dreams,
and the tale of a war somewhere.
We are like monks
whose vows are only a memory;
our days are empty of meaning
and our nights of love.
A.I.F.
PETER MIDDLETON.


The Bulletin
Vol. 64. —No. 3317.
Wednesday, September 8, J 943.
COMING EVENTS....


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper
“Australia for the White Man '
Directors:
H. K. Prior J. E. Webb
P. H. Prior David Adams
HEAD OFFICE: 252 George Street. Sydney:
Box 2521 BB; ’Phone 8797 L
Victoria: Newspaper House, 247-249 Collins
Street. Melbourne.
Queensland; 239 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
Westralia ; 33 Barrack Street, Perth.
New Zealand: Nathan’s Buildings ( opp,
G.P.0. ), Wellington.
London': 1 Hare Place, 47 Fleet Street.
London, E.C.4.
GLORY AND GATE MONEY.
After a visit to New Guinea, where
Australian and American soldiers are
struggling with Nature in its foulest
aspects as well as with an enemy who
lives, fights and dies like an animal,
obscene but game, Mr. Robert P. Patter-
son, the United States Secretary of War,
said “The type of country and the com-
bat conditions are tougher than any I
have seen anywhere ; and I was in the
last war.” And of the Australians; I
still say there are no better fighters in
the world.” . .
“Reviewing a famous A.I.F. unit in
New Guinea,” General Blarney said
“Everything is going so well for us that
it seems like a dream compared with con-
ditions when we set out for the Middle
East.” Referring to “a move near Sala-
maua,” and mentioning some apparent
enemy failure of nerve (“the Japanese
dropped their new equipment and ran
screaming”) not evident in subsequent en-
gagements, he added “Australians have
proved to the world that the Western sol-
dier is infinitely superior to the Japanese.”
Damien Parer, who made the “Kokoda
Trail” film, that epic of the triumph of
the human spirit over a very Iliad of
trials and agonies, is back from New
Guinea with the conviction that, unless
the A.I.F. veterans are relieved by some
of the hundreds of thousands of men in
uniform who have never fired a shot
against the enemy anywhere, they will be
lost to their families and their country.
The conditions under which the infantry
live and fight are appalling and unbelievable.
Many of the men on the Salamaua front
have been in action since the battle for
Wau last February. Civilians simply cannot
conceive the tremendous jobs these lads
have done.
If the fighting qualities of the original
A.I.F. divisions are to be maintained they
should be split up and distributed among
newer divisions. The rigors of jungle war,
sickness and other casualties are gradually
whittling away the early members of the
old divisions.
Parer is by no means the only eye-
witness who has borne grim testimony
to the almost superhuman valor and en-
durance of these Diggers. Axel Olsen,
of the Melbourne “Argus,” one of those
young war correspondents who still carry
on (others have returned wounded or
broken in health), was at Komiatum in
“the hour of triumph for A.I.F. troops
who already had to their credit exploits
in the Middle East and New Guinea.”
For many weary months they had ham-
mered relentlessly at the Japanese, pushing
them gradually back to the coast. Komiatum
gave them the upper hand. Its capture was
a glorious climax to a brilliantly-planned
and magnificently-fought campaign.
I sat on Komiatum Ridge, its slopes
scarred with huge bomb craters, the kunai
grass flattened and burnt, the red soil criss-
crossed with Japanese dugouts and trenches.
In the warm afternoon sun Australian
soldiers manning the defences talked and
laughed. They had been through endless
days and nights of hell, with meagre
rations, perpetually wet clothes and not
even a chance to wash. They looked a
motley crew. They were a band of heroes.
Everybody talked of the recent fighting,
but nobody would talk about what he him-
self had done. It was always what “the
other bloke” had done.
Among individual feats of daring and
skill, Olsen mentioned that of Lieut.
John Sachs, M.M., of Sydney, “with an
outstanding record in Greece, Crete and
the Western Desert.”
Five Japanese had installed themselves
in a pillbox dug deep into the side of a
steep slope. After the ridge had been cap-
tured they refused to come out. Lieutenant
Sachs, with Sergeant Bill Harrison, of
Swan Hill (Vic.), after trying for two days
to eject them, took ten-pound blast bombs
and threw them into the cave. Still the
Japanese refused to surrender, and the cave
had to be blown in with gelignite. Three
Japanese were dead, and the other two
were taken prisoner.
I passed them on the way back. One
was more than six feet tall and power-
fully built. Even after his ordeal in the
dugout he showed fight, and, after wrestling
with a soldier who offered him a drink and
a cigarette, had to be restrained until he
was quiet.
Alan Jones, a Sydney “Telegraph” cor-
respondent, described how Acting-
Sergeant John Smith, who “fought in
Libya, Greece and Syria, and won the
M.M. in Syria for successfully storming
a pillbox,” fell while “leading his platoon
against a Jap position on Mt. Tambu,
five miles south-east of Salamaua.”
On the first day of the Mt. Tambu
battle the Japs called out to the Diggers:
“Come out, you conscripts (!), and fight
the sons of Nippon.” Smith leaped out
of a weapon-pit and roared back; “We’ll
give you all the fight you want tomorrow.”
Next day he charged the Jap position at
the head of his men and took the objective.
But he was wounded in eight places by a
grenade, which killed an American beside
him, and he died two days afterwards.
Acting-Sergeant Smith was practically a
legendary figure among Australian and
United States troops in New Guinea. He
used to go into action bearing a Japanese
sword and whistling “The Wizard of Oz.”
Last February he was wounded in the
chest during the battle for Wau, and a Jap
took his sword as he lay helpless. He used
to father the young American troops seeing
action for the first time. One of them is
now known as “John Smith, Junior.”
Acting-Sergeant Smith was an only son.
That February wound was so serious that
his mother was given special permission
to travel from Sydney to the northern
hospital to which he had been carried.
Had he chosen to accept the relief to
which his grievous wound and his battle
service against foes of four nations en-
titled him he could no doubt have been
invalided out of the army. But as soon
as he thought himself well enough to fight
again, he went back to his Diggers and
his Doughboys, and went to his death.
“There’s no discharge in the war,”
Sang Kipling’s Tommy in South Africa ;
and there is no equality of risk in this
war. Not for Australians in uniform, at
all events. Had Sachs or Smith been en-
dowed with the attributes of a fashionable
jockey or a fashionable pugilist or a
fashionable Rugby League footballer, in-
stead of those of a Young Digger, he
could have counted on remaining in or
near Sydney throughout the war and hav-
ing a pleasant and profitable time. He
would have been chased with offers of
lucrative engagements, and no annoying
difficulties would have been raised had
he wanted to travel, say, from Sydney
to Melbourne for the Derby and Cup, or
from Melbourne to Sydney to put a
bead on someone at the Stadium.
Had he been eminent in amateur
football he could have had his pick
of Rugby League contracts, and signed
up for two years. And if he had made
good as a professional he would have
been extolled in the Rugby League press
as having contributed to the most bounti-
ful Rugby League season on record,
with crowds, club dividends and indi-
vidual cuts (also bash, booze and bet-
ting) at the peak, though in Melbourne,
Adelaide and Brisbane many clubs have
gone out of existence for the duration,
and even where competitions have been
continued gate receipts are only a frac-
tion of what they were before the war.
Then there were apt to be more spec-
tators at one Melbourne match than at
all the Sydney Rugby League matches, a
position which has been reversed. The
Rugby League is a hundred-per-cent.
Labor show, and has always enjoyed
powerful political protection.
But, like many of the footballers in
other States and in the Sydney Rugby
Union, which has a long list of killed,
wounded and missing, Lieutenant Sachs
and Acting-Sergeant Smith preferred to
take their chance with the fighting men.
Not for gain, but for honor and glory,
pride of race and country, they “winged
their roving flight.” A day will come
when they will be remembered with grati-
tude when home-front footballers, pugi-
lists and jockeys, and politicians who
contemplate without evident emotion
the thinning ranks of the A.I.F. —
however successful in their vocation
and by whatever methods are for-
gotten. Meanwhile many a decent home
where joy and hope once reigned is deso-
late, and many a father’s and mother’s
heart is sick with the yearning which Kip-
ling expressed so poignantly when his
only son had been borne to a soldier’s
grave—“ But who shall return us our
children?”
Mr. Beasley, praising his Government
for “bringing the A.I.F. back to Aus-
tralia” (June 23), made the strange asser-
tion that “the experience these men
gained in North Africa and in desert
fighting was not suitable for the kind of
fighting they were required to wage in the
islands' of New Guinea and elsewhere,”
wherefore “the chiefs of the military
machine have sent these particular divi-
sions into places in Australia where they
can train for jungle warfare.” Correct-
ing his colleague by the device of railing
at the Opposition leaders, Mr. Curtin
declared (August 9) that if those persons
“had had their way, the Seventh Division
and a brigade of the Sixth Division would
not have returned to Australia when they
did: as it was, the A.I.F. arrived only
in the nick of time to save the situation
in New Guinea and to prevent the enemy
establishing himself at Moresby.” He
had previously stated in his policy speech
(July 26) that “up to the end of last
year our casualties [the majority, of
course, A.I.F.] were 52,000, of whom
7000 were killed, 24,000 missing, 12,000
wounded and 9000 prisoners of war.”
And Dr. Evatt had told the Americans
that an A.I.F. battalion went into the
Buna-Gona battle 800 strong and came
out with 21 officers and men.
“Arrived only in the nick of time” last
year, and men who have not gone under
to bombs, shells, bullets, malaria, scrub
typhus—which may destroy sight, hear-
ing and speech if it does not kill—or
exhaustion are still there! This with
“820,000 men in the armed services” (Mr.
Curtin, July 26). “What is truth?” asked
jesting Pilate. What is time, and how is
“the nick of time” measured when the
term is applied to the A.1.F.? And why
should so much be owed by so many to
so few, and for so long?
Preview of a Film.
Carried by American envoy Joseph E.
Davies to Moscow, where Stalin gave it
the bird, the Hollywooden “Mission to
Moscow” is to have a run in Australia.
It was not through any unfriendliness
to “Mission to Moscow’s” head bagman
that Stalin gave the film his equivalent
of a raspberry—walking out before the
end of the showing with only a curt nod
to Mr. Davies. Before the trial spin at
the Kremlin Stalin had Mr. Davies as
guest of honor at a dinner, which was
described in detail in a Moscow dis-
patch :
The dinner included caviar, back of dried
sturgeon, herring with dressing, back of
sturgeon in sauce, English-style roast beef,
cold ham, gelatine, olives and spring salads,
radishes, cucumbers and a variety of
cheeses. Then came wild fowl, chicken
soup, consomme, Siberian salmon, snipe
and fried potatoes, turkey and cauliflower.
There followed strawberry tarts and vanilla
ice-cream, candy, nuts and liqueurs. The
main drinks during the dinner were red
and white wines—red Georgian wine being
one of Stalin’s favorites —vodka with hot
pepper, and champagne.
After this spread—which would have
taxed Ariel’s talents as a universal pro-
vider —Stalin, Mr. Davies and chosen
others adjourned to the sumptuous Krem-
lin movie theatre, subsided into vast, soft
white-leather chairs, each “beside a table
on which was a bottle of champagne and
glasses,” and sat back to see the “golden
cloth curtain” withdrawn and, presto!
“Mission to Moscow” unfolding.
In Mr. Davies’s country the reports of
these doings at the Kremlin were read
with amazement. Yet that was nothing
to the amazement with which many
Americans had earlier viewed “Mission
to Moscow.”
American critics assailed it on such
grounds as that it was “a ridiculous
distortion of history” ; “a pictorial mis-
representation of scenes” ; “a falsification
of characters” ; “a laughable sublimation
of Stalin’s motives and procedures.”
Even such a normally steadygoing fel-
low as the “World-Telegram” columnist
William Philip Simms declared that “if
all concerned were not in the middle of
a life-and-death struggle” the film would
“certainly be the object of diplomatic
representations in Washington.” The
thing, he said, “sits none too well with the
British, French, Poles and others,” whose
“relations with Russia it will hardly im-
prove” ; it “portrays their envoys to
Moscow as silly asses or as vapid
tattlers” ; by “placing everybody in the
wrong except the Russians” it creates “an
impression which cannot fail to do im-
mense harm.”
Another point of American criticism
rests on the ground of the “quasi-
official form” secured by bringing in
“voices” of Roosevelt and others. The
film, by this subtle device, “comes as
close to being an official production” as
America “has ever witnessed.” And “in
this quasi-official form” the “public is
given a distorted, one-sided version of
present-day history.” Example:
The Congress of the United States is
ridiculed as stupidly isolationist, with never
a word about the Russia of the same period
—the Russia which then was a partner of
Germany. Russia is pictured as the great
friend of China, alongside an America
which “gave China her sympathy but sent
her scrap iron to Japan.”
Eugene Lyons, the editor of the Ameri-
■can “Mercury” and a recognised authority
on world affairs —particularly Russian —
from the last war to this, said of it:
This Hollywood concoction pretends
elaborately to present only “the facts.”
Its prelude is a sanctimonious speech by
Mr. Davies in person, wherein he offers
his credentials as a simple, good-hearted,
religious man. He invokes the memory of
his “sainted mother,” who was an “ordained
minister of the Gospel.” Repeatedly in the
body of the film he describes himself as a
lawyer who looks at “both sides” of every
question. Then comes the avalanche of
falsification and half-truths.
“The distortions and elisions,” said Mr.
Lyons, “thus have an added dimension
of hypocrisy.” In the film, Mr. Lyons
reports, Ribbentrop —who visited Mos-
cow in August, 1939, when he signed the
10-year friendship and non-aggression
pact with Molotov —is shown at a Mos-
cow ball in honor of Mr. Davies, along
with Bukharin and Radek (both under
arrest long before Mr. Davies reached
Moscow), and Yagoda (then already in
disgrace). “But what’s a little chronology
to scenario writers?”
In reports of the Stalin snubbing of
the film (and of Mr. Davies at it) it was
deduced that Stalin considered too
“highly-colored the version of the events
leading to the Tukhachevsky execution.”
Well he might! Marshal Tukhachevsky
was one of the eight leading Russian
generals who, in June, 1937, were tried in
secret and shot. In the Hollywood
version,
The marshal is given a public trial.
Words uttered by another defendant, Mura-
lov, are put into his mouth. But that isn’t
all. Since he is shown confessing in open
court, together with men tried a year after
his own execution, Warner Brothers had to
resurrect him for the purpose.
Like a good many puzzled onlookers
in Australia, the American “Mercury”
editor holds that “the most significant
single fact about Russia’s role in this war
is that it is strictly neutral in the Pacific
theatre of conflict.”
Relations between Russia and Japan are
normal and friendly. Only recently an
important fisheries treaty was concluded
between them, which, among other things,
gives Japan access to weather information
in Russian waters. Tokyo and Moscow
constantly emphasise their adherence to their
pact of friendship, negotiated with Berlin’s
blessing.
The film “conceals these facts”:
Anyone who had only this film to go on
would be quite certain that Russia is allied
with us against Japan. A series of scenes
is worked into the movie to convey this
erroneous and dangerous idea—dangerous
because it encourages wishful thinking
assumptions on the Asiatic end of the war.
A leading member of the New York
Bar, Nathan D. Shapiro, tears the film
apart at a point of representation that is
certain to take in thousands. The film,
he says,
justifies Stalin’s pact with Hitler upon the
ground that the British erred or sinned
in appeasing Hitler at Munich. But it was
perfectly proper for Stalin to appease Hitler
in Poland. Many of us still remember the
anxiety of England, before the invasion and
partition of Poland, to make a military
alliance with Stalin and remember that
England then had a military mission in
Moscow for the purpose of making the
alliance. Stalin nevertheless decided to deal
with his worst enemy, Hitler Yet the
error of the British at Munich was an un-
pardonable sin!
Another sample of American criti-
cism (the lot of it would stretch from
here past Darwin in single column):
The excuse offered [by the film] for that
pact is that Stalin merely wished to gain
time to arm. That, of course, was pre-
cisely the excuse offered by British and
French appeasers in the preceding years.
Why Soviet time-gaining is virtuous and
British time-gaining wicked neither the pic-
ture nor the Davies book explains.
Yet another critic described “Mission
to Moscow” as the “most inexcusable
‘historical’ imposition ever saddled on
us,” criticism which the U.S. Writers’
War Board comprising most of
America’s professional writers —endorsed
by awarding the film “three duds.”
PLAIN ENGLISH
War-time Elections.
Maoriland is to have a general election
on September 25. It is a luxury with
which the Maorilanders could well dis-
pense ; but having, by virtue of a measure
passed in 1941, added two years to the
term of the Parliament elected in October,
1938, the Labor Government was indis-
posed to seek authority for another such
extension, preferring to ask for a longer
lease of life by the ordinary route. Being
human, and pardonably proud of its
capital War performance, it feels that a
renewal of the people’s confidence is its
right.
Maoriland has a War Cabinet in
which two members of the Opposi-
tion sit with three Labor Ministers
as Ministers without portfolio. It
has one army, based on universal
liability to serve anywhere in the world.
It is not likely that the Opposition will
try to make more leave for soldiers on
tropical service an election issue, as Mr.
Fadden did; indeed, Maoriland electors
will probably be spared all the election
issues which have distracted and divided
Australia. Be that as it may, the struggle
in the constituencies will be of no service
to the Dominion if aroused party spirit
survives it. .
On rare occasions, and in special cir-
cumstances, war-time elections may oe
beneficial. These conditions existed in
South Africa, where a judicious appeal
to the constituencies has immensely
strengthened the hands of the Smuts
Government. Smuts and his friends car-
ried South Africa into the war only by
defeating the then Prime Minister, an
able leader with powerful Parliamentary
support, and the old field-marshal had to
choose his time for demonstrating that
the vote for keeping the Union out o
the war, 67 to 80, was not really repre-
sentative of feeling in the country, this
he did with great skill and success. But.
generally speaking, war-time elections not
merely provincial or municipal are use-
less and may be dangerous.
One was due in Britain m October,
1940. With vivid memories of the Peace
Ballot, all parties shrank from putting
the conduct, and perhaps the continuance
of the war to the vote of a predominant y
female' electorate shaken by the blitz
(even fh 1935 there were 1,741,868 more


ẁ
ever before, in many cases by majorities
never before approached; and N. S.
Wales was the State that defeated con-
scription. The coincidence is too strik-
ing to be explained away by flippant
references to the defects of Me. Fadden
and his organisations.
Mrs. Roosevelt's Visit.
The most distinguished visitor Aus-
tralia has had from the United States
stepped from a U.S- service ’plane at
Canberra on Friday afternoon, faced a
battery of cameras, answered a barrage of
questions and in no time had raised
Australian regard for her country and
countrymen, high as that already was.
One question asked was whether the
President’s wife had any plans for further-
ing the goodwill between the Republic
and the Commonwealth. There could be
nothing cut and dried about it, Mrs.
Roosevelt said. “You must have a spirit
of goodwill to begin with, and then take
every opportunity to create a better
understanding.” Which, from the Aus-
tralian viewpoint, is to say that the plan
is working already, and working well.
No doubt the visit is something more
than a compliment to Australia. Even if
it is not something more than that, it is
very pleasing, on a level with the very
high compliment extended when America
agreed to this country’s defence in the
desperate days being militarily con-
trolled by the greatest of American
generals. Whatever else Mrs, Roosevelt
may discover about Australians while
she is here, and whatever she may think
of the officials who arranged her exhaust-
ing programme—in this they ran true to
form—she will not find the people lack-
ing in gratitude towards Uncle Sam.
The Unspoken Addition.
When Mr. Churchill and Mr. Roosevelt
arrived in Quebec without Marshal Stalin
(or Mr. Molotov) there was a crackling
fire of speculation which was heard round
the world. Presently a Moscow Radio
“spokesman” announced in no cheery
tone of voice that the reason why Mar-
shal Stalin wasn’t represented, in person
or by deputy, was that Marshal Stalin
hadn’t been invited. There followed a
brisk exchange of he-was-he-wasn’t
asseverations, in which sundry officials
joined without much success in shaking
opposite convictions.
Only the two gentlemen present and the
gentleman absent were in a position
to state the central fact with unassailable
authority; and this Mr. Churchill did.
In a speech broadcast from Washington
last week he explained that the U.S.S.R.
took no part in the Quebec discussions
because “it would not have been suitable”
to invite it. He and the President would
like nothing better than “a threefold meet-
ing with Marshal Stalin,” and they would
“persevere” in their efforts to bring one
about, suggesting meantime a meeting of
the British, American and Soviet Foreign
Ministers as “most necessary.” But the
Quebec conference was “largely con-
cerned with heating and inflaming the
war against Japan,” and with Japan “the
Soviet has a treaty of non-aggression.”
Of (and to) Russia and the Russians
the Prime Minister spoke with greater
candor than at any time since June 22,
1941. He recalled that the Bulgarians
“owed their liberation to Russia” {i.e.,
Czarist Russia), and acknowledged that
the Russians had borne and were “still
bearing” the “main weight of the German
army.” He acknowledged also that it was
natural for the Russians to “urge us
ceaselessly to invade France,” and “in
no way to conceal their complaints or
even reproaches.” But he pointed out
bluntly, as a fact imperfectly appreciated,
or accepted without gratitude, that “by
far the greater part of the German air
force has been withdrawn from the Rus-
sian front, and has been worn down with
ever-growing intensity by Allied airmen.”
And he refused to allow that Russians
or English-speaking Communists or both
have any right to dictate Anglo-American
strategy and sentence vast masses of
Britons, Canadians and Americans to a
perhaps useless death.
We have heard a lot of talk in the last
two years about what is called establish-
ing a second front in northern France
The lives of our soldiers will be considered
in accordance with sound military plans,
and not squandered for political considera-
tions of any kind.
Excellent; and you could almost hear
the unspoken addition: “If you don’t
like that, Joe, you can lump it.”
"The Last Full Measure."
John Brennan to The Bulletin:
Down there on the narrow flat towards the
Point, in a small clearing in the jungle, a short
way above where the waters of the inlet wash
over the coral and the mud and around and
beyond the roots of the mangroves, there are
six graves. Six wooden crosses, roughly-fash-
ioned from ammunition boxes and timber from
the cases in which supplies were brought in,
mark their place, and they are railed around
with belts of machine-gun ammunition. The
trail winds a way between the tangle of roots
and crosses the clearing between the graves.
This morning another small depression has
been scraped out of the coral. The earth
thrown out makes a small mound across the
trail. Native bearers who are carrying the
ammunition boxes up towards the front line
swing out around it without raising their eyes.
Nor do they seem to notice the litter, with
its rough-hewn sapling poles, which lies on the
ground a short distance to the right of the trail.
It’s covered with one of the waterproofs
which soldiers use as protection against the
rain or as groundsheets as they lie in their
foxholes at night. A small American flag,
browned with mud and rain, has been spread
lengthwise across it.
On the heap of earth are small shovels such
as soldiers carry on their packs when they go
into battle. The men who have scraped out
the new grave rest wearily in the angles of the
tfee roots by the side of the clearing. Their
mottled jungle suits are caked with mud and
wet with perspiration. On their faces is the
rough, stubbly growth of four days’ beard.
Their eyelids are heavy with lack of sleep.
Near the head of the litter the padre stands
waiting. His arms droop wearily. He wears
the same jungle dress as the men, and where it
hangs open at the neck a small crucifix can be
seen on the cord with his identity disc.
He glances up occasionally and looks along
the trail. His eyes hold the same weariness as
do those of the men, but in them there is a
gleam of light, of wise understanding not in
theirs. He is much older than they, and not
only in years.
More men are crowding among the trees
that edge the clearing. They come quietly
and they slide their caps off their heads self-
consciously. They stand, or lean against the
trees, their eyes turned down, some silent,
some talking together softly. Their talk is not
of the dead, nor of graves, nor of battle, but
of everyday things that men might talk of any-
where. They move aside from the trail to make
way for the continuing file of bearers.
The padre looks up again and speaks quietly
to the two men nearest him. They take their
knives to cut a small heap of pandanus leaves.
The padre glances at his watch. “Any men
from his company here-yet?” he asks.
“They’re coming,” someone answers him.
A half-dozen men come down the trail from
the rise. They carry their rifles slung across
their shoulders. The padre motions them out
into the clearing, close up to the litter. “We’ll
begin now,” he says.
He reads slowly and softly, but clearly and
distinctly. The men sitting among the roots of
the trees stand up; some of them stamp
out cigarettes. There are mumbling responses
to the words of the Burial Service: “Eternal
rest grant to him, O Lord. And may perpetual
light shine upon him He shall not die”— —
The service is a short one. The padre stops
reading. “You men from his company,” he
says then, “lift him across. Take him gently.”
They lift the body from the litter and place
it in the shallow grave. The padre reaches
down and takes away the flag. He reads again
a little, then he motions to the men to place
the pandanus leaves across the body. He
throws a small handful of earth in on lop of
them. “Shovel it in gently,” he says.
The grave is quickly filled. The men about
the clearing move quietly off. They talk to-
gether, but not so softly as before. Their talk
is not of the dead, nor of graves, but of every-
day things. One man says “You learn not to
make close friendships in this game.” No one
answers him.
There are seven graves down on the narrow
flat towards the Point, seven rough wooden
crosses hung with identification discs.
AT THE SECOND-FRONTERS’ CLUB.
“See what Churchill says about our Second Front—‘The lives of our soldiers will not be squandered for political considerations of any kind.’”
“The Fascist cow!”


ẃ
(23
D
*5
m
(St 1
t.
r
fJI
I ’ ‘^V
...
m
4i*-'*V:-*-'V
C. S.R.HARDWALL PLASTER
Packed in Juie Bags
piUI
THE COLONIAL SUGAR REFINING COMPANY
(Building Materials Division),
SYDNEY - - MELBOURNE - - BRISBANE - - ADELAIDE - -
LTD.
PERTH
1-43.
Specially designed to
resist more- than -
ordinary wear, this
exceptionally hard
gypsum finishing plas-
ter is recommended
for all wall surfaces
which are subject to
exceptional wear and
tear. It is, of course,
essential that this
work be done by ex-
pert plasterers.
Make Certain of
YOUR ESTATE
in the Uncertain Years ahead!
Your responsibility for the welfare of
your dependents in the years ahead was
never greater than at present.
Make your Will NOW —or bring it up to
date—choose a trustee and executor that
is experienced, independent and always
available —such as The Union Trustee!
Expert guidance of well-trained officers
helps you to interpret your wishes exactly,
and the Company’s reputation is a practi-
cal guarantee that your instructions will
be correctly carried out in administering
your estate. Write, phone or call now.
m 3
The Union Trustee
COMPANY OF AUSTRALIA LIMITED
(Incorporated in Victoria) Established XBB5
rite only Trustee Company having offices each with its own Board of Dtrectwa
and Management in three States —New South IVales, Victoria and Queens a
2 O’CONNELL STREET, SYDNEY
N.S.W. DIRECTORATE:
Hon. Sir Henry Braddon, K.B.E. (Chairman); Co' 1 "
Sinclair (Vice-Chairman); Hon. Sir Graham Waddeß, K B.K.
M.L.C.; James Kidd; A. E. Heath. C.M.G., Robert U
Wilson: Manager: J. G. H. Shipway.
ẅ
POLITICAL POINTS
Labor’s in again, and strikes begin
again. Strikes of N.S.W. coalminers in’
contempt of the latest of the litter of
Canberra anti-strike regulations ; strikes
of seamen tying up “vessels owned by
the Commonwealth Government” ; strikes
of N.S.W. slaughtermen, mostly employed
at the Homebush abattoirs, a State Gov-
ernment concern with a dreary history of
holdups and financial losses.
The Homebush slaughtermen have
“twice refused to obey an award of the
State Industrial Commission,” delivered
by the recently-appointed president, a
former Labor candidate and brother of
the president of the N.S.W. Labor organ-
isation, himself a Labor appointee to
the Commonwealth Bank Board. The
seamen are irked at “the dogmatic atti-
tude of the President of the Maritime
Industry Commission, Justice de Baun,”
also they demand the dismissal of a
steward who happens to be a member of
the Stewards and Pantrymen’s Union.
What the coalminers struck for nobody
seems to know. But while they were out
Dunstan said rationing of gas “would
have to be introduced in Victoria” and
“railway services further restricted” ; and
it was so.
Service men’s vote came in very
slowly last week, and all the doubtful
contests remain doubtful. It is natural
for young people to vote Labor, and a
great many young people in uniform did.
And ballot-papers from many A.W.C.
camps, included in the services votes,
must have been 90 p.c. Labor. All the
same, counting of such services votes,
with A.W.C. additions, as have come to
hand has improved things for Hughes
(North Sydney), Page (Cowper), Fadden
(Darling Downs), Harrison (Wentworth)
and Archie Cameron (Barker), and there
is still a chance for Grenfell Price
(Boothby).
In May, 1917, the young John Curtin,
newly arrived in Perth and very worried,
chatted with a newspaperman outside the
“Worker” office. “If we could only get
one man in,” he sighed. “We” failed to
get one man in ; the Senate seats (three
that year) and the five in the House went
to the Nationalists. Now, as member for
Fremantle and P.M., Curtin expects all
the Westralian seats, nine this time, will go
to his party. It never happened before
and may never happen again.
At last the claim that industrial law
and national necessity are as nothing
when a union boss or mob orders a strike
has been challenged. Thirty men have
been charged on indictment with con-
spiracy to foment a strike in which
12,000 miners stopped hewing coal, with
a resultant drop in steel production.
They are each liable to a fine of £l5OO
or 12 months’ imprisonment or both. In
Australia? No, in Pittsburgh, as an im-
mediate sequel to the Connally-Smith
law which Congress passed over the
President’s veto.
During the election campaign Wells,
the Miners’ Federation boss, swore on a
book of Karl Marx or something that
his union would back Curtin to the limit
in pits as well as polling booths. Polling
day over and the Curtins returned, people
naturally looked for a swift issue of
strikes. They arrived last week in four
western (N.S.W.) mines employing 600
men, and the Central Reference Board
(Judge Drake-Brockman chairman) en-
tered upon a compulsory conference.
Then Industrial Peace regulations were in-
voked and the scene shifted to the Arbi-
tration Court (Judge Drake-Brockman
presiding). There Judge Drake-Brockman
exploded; “We have three Government
departments playing round and enthusi-
astic amateurs intervening, and all expect-
ing the poor old Reference Board to
straighten things out when they are in a
terrible mess.”
One of the “enthusiastic amateurs”
mentioned by the exasperated Drake-
Brockman, J., is James, M.P., whose head
has threatened to burst since the “S. M.
Herald” proclaimed him a wonderful
feller. Mines Minister Badly was sup-
posed to be another —erroneously. Mr.
Badly is concentrating on plans to stimu-
late that “good and useful sport dog-
racing,” and to put his new horseracing
club in the way of staging a race “bigger
than the Melbourne Cup.”
“HERE’S THAT MAN AGAIN!"
“These decadent pluto-democracies.”— Mussolini, in his stab-in-the-back period.
The elections brought many shocks and
embarrassments to Communists, and no-
where more than in Boothby (S.A.). In
that suburban electorate they brought out
one of those very well-advertised doctors
who have embraced the Korz, and,
swallowing hard, they gave their second
votes to Mr. Sheehy, a duty enjoined on
them by the slogan “Vote for Curtin and
the Communists!” The doctor may save
his deposit, and Sheehy may go in on
Com. preferences. Now the comrades
have the awful feeling that, so far from
being grateful to them, Mr. Sheehy looks
forward to dancing at their “party’s”
wake.
Senator Keane, announcing a “30 p.c.
cut in cigarette and tobacco supplies to
civilians,” making the September quota
“70 p.c. of that available last June”:
Ample leaf was available to meet the in-
creases for July and August (80 per cent,
of supplies for the 1941 base year), but it
has been found impossible to obtain suffi-
cient labor to increase civilian supplies.
July and August were election-campaign
months. Nothing was said then about the
likelihood of labor becoming insufficient
after the elections. Nothing was then
thought of but votes, and, the votes hav-
ing been delivered, it doesn’t matter if
smokers feel they were “had.”
Lang is apparently resigned to defeat
in Reid. Though he is getting more
camp votes than Morgan, and “on the
soldiers’ preferences counted at Head
Office would win comfortably,” a check
of civilian preferences “reveals an in-
explicable majority for Morgan.” His
“Century” nevertheless claims that
“Lang’s majority of just on 5000 primaries
is the true reflex of the electorate,” and
that the Big Fellow is once more “pro-
viding the leadership needed by Labor.”
The fight has only just commenced.
In witness whereof Jack, at nearly 67,
has formed another party.
After a week full of distractions, the
most embarrassing being a descent on
Parliament House by dissatisfied teachers
who have ground for dissatisfaction, the
Victorian Assembly resumed yesterday to
debate a Labor no-confidence motion,
the C.P. Government being indicted on
“its failure to remedy the inequitable
and anomalous electoral position by re-
dividing the Assembly districts on the
basis of the normal Federal redistribu-
tion scheme.” The only thing wrong
with the motion is that it wasn’t
launched eight years ago; but Labor
dropped redistribution to support the
C.P. Government. Now Dunstan expects
to dish it by coming to an arrangement
with the U.A.P., even if it means com-
promising on his party’s “no-composite-
Governments” principle, the U.A.P., for
its part, being expected to compromise on
redistribution. Compromise on principles
is the bane of Victorian State politics.
A Melbourne “Herald” correspon-
dent’s fourth-war-anniversary note:
Tuning into a national station I heard
a reproduction of the voice of Mr. Neville
Chamberlain making the statement that in-
cluded the historic words “Consequently
this country is at war with Germany.”
Immediately afterwards there came a com-
ment in which the speaker, in a suitably
supercilious tone, referred to the deceased
Prime Minister as “fumbling Chamberlain.”
Impudent, but characteristic. Chamber-
lain gained a year in which, as the great
event proved, Spitfires and Hurricanes
were produced, and their crews trained,
in sufficient numbers, and he brought his
people into the war united. His memory
will survive the impertinences of all the
Pink boys that ever blustered.
Blain, the prisoner-of-war M.H.R. for
the Northern Territory, stepped up from
third to leading place in the election poll
on a strong ladder of service votes—the
first batch was divided in the ratio of
two parts to Blain and one part to the
other six candidates put together. On
September 5 the veteran of two wars was
70 votes ahead of the nearest opponent,
and looked as if he would need about 20
per cent, of the independent Labor can-
didate’s preferences to win. On past ex-
perience and first scrutiny of the prefer-
ences, his chances were good, especially
as the few outstanding pastoral votes
were likely to favor him.
Sydney “Sun” in an ecstasy of en-
thusiasm ; subject, a football club in Billy
Hughes’s electorate which started the
leather-chasing season by buying ama-
teurs on the hoof:
Norths have splintered seven records this
season: Best all-time gale at North Sydney
in a practice game. Highest cash figures in
a competition match at a suburban ground.
Biggest North Sydney Oval attendance.
All-time record for Henson Park. Greatest
gate of all time at Hurstville. All-time
high for a competition final. Top North
Sydney Club receipts in the organisation’s
history. And the figures for Saturday’s
Grand Final will rocket up to the greatest
heights ever, officials consider.
And “the greatest heights ever” were
reached. You would never think that
Diggers were dying for Australia in an
Australian possession with a foul climate
and terrain.
From a pre-election broadcast by H. J.
Prater, speaking for the Westralian Coun-
try party as general secretary of the
Primary Producers, and recommending
to the electors “a truly national war-
time Government and the creation of one
Australian army”:
We denounce the election catch-cry of
“Curtin or New Guinea,” which has been
circulated as an inducement to those who
do not want to go to the assistance of our
forces overseas to vote Labor.
But, with women preponderating, it seems
to have been very effective, even in the
West, which polled those magnificent
votes for conscription in 1916 and 1917.
“S. M. Herald,” still worshipping its
latest idol, election disappointments not-
withstanding :
Apparently it has become necessary to
disabuse the minds of union extremists of
the idea that a Labor Ministry, returned by
a sweeping majority, is fair game for bully-
ing and browbeating. The contrary is the
case. Mr. Curtin won such large support
because of popular .confidence that he
would continue to serve as a national
leader, and not as the instrument of any
section. He is in a position to govern
strongly and impartially.
Agreed; and the testing-time has arrived
already. The Balmain (Sydney) iron-
workers, “in view of the inability of the
rank and file to investigate the affairs of
their organisation, particularly in regard
to finances,” have asked the P.M. for
“an exhaustive inquiry into the affairs of
the Federated Ironworkers, as well as the
encroachment into that organisation of
the Communist party.” And Justice de
Baun, chairman of the Maritime In-
dustry Commission, has reported that
Elliott, secretary of the Seamen’s Union,
and some of the executive “still support
the policy of holding up ships until their
demands, in many cases quite trivial, are
granted,” even “ships proceeding to war
areas.” Elliott boasted in the “Herald ’
on August 2 that “being a Communist
makes me a trusted and respected
ber of the Seamen’s Union” and “made
me a national union leader.”


(yOcutdo
Gold Medal
SHERRY
PERSONAL ITEMS
Eight and a half guineas from the
A.B.C.’s coffers go to Corporal Rodney
Taylor for a short story “You Never Can
Tell What a Cook Will Do,” which was
first published in The Bulletin
(9/6/’43). Taylor and Signalman R.
Clark (“Way to Glory”), placed first
equal, are sharing the prize-money offered
for first and second places in the
A.B.C.’s competition for service men.
Gunner Jim Blair, on active service from
The Bulletin literary staff, gets a special
prize of seven guineas for his “Point of
View,” which was judged “the best con-
structed story, but not suitable for radio.”
Two entries by G. Rawson were highly
commended.
On the first day of the current war
Captain Francis William Cook, D. 5.0.,
M.C., went along to a recruiting office
and signed on as a private. He’d already
done four years’ soldiering as a militia-
man, carrying on the family tradition (his
father won the M.C. as a British Army
captain in the 1914-18 fighting). The
younger Cook (he’s now 26) left Aus-
tralia as a 10th Batt. lieutenant, and won
ANOTHER CAPTAIN COOK.
his M.C. at Tobruk. Subsequently
severely damaged in a motor-bike acci-
dent, he was invalided back to Australia ;
got right again, rejoined his unit in New
Guinea and was in the thick of it up there
at Milne Bay, Buna and Sanananda, where
he got his D.S.O. Just now he’s chief
instructor at an n.c.o. school in S.A. In
normal times he’s on the staff of the
Waite Research Institute,
Senior Detective Alex. Martin, head of
the Russell-street Fingerprint Bureau,
started as a bank clerk. When finger-
printing came to Victoria the authorities
selected him on his skill as a handwrit-
ing expert. He has justified their choice
by unravelling some of the most difficult
problems the Victorian police have had
to deal with. Some of his feats of iden-
tification verge on the uncanny. When
some money was missed at a military
establishment he looked at the hands of
1500 soldiers as they filed past him, and
instantly detected the resemblance be-
tween a fingerprint from a safe which
was in the records and the natural mark-
ings on one of the hands that passed him.
A great Australian artist:
Streeton’s yellowing moustaches and burly
figure were seldom seen in Melbourne in his
last years. He lived aloof, either in his Toorak
home with its 40ft. by 20ft. music room (his
wife, who predeceased him, was a Canadian
violinist of distinction), or else up at Olinda
fighting for the big trees’ right to exist. Occa-
sionally he stumped into an exhibition, leaning
on a stick. A fellow-artist once said he looked
like a banker, to which George Lambert re-
torted: “And banks like a banker!” Actually
Streeton looked more like a soldier. In his
bearded young days he looked like the typical
young artist. In his last years he became a
symbol for accepted tradition, but in his first
cigar-box-lid exhibition at Melbourne Athe-
naeum with Conder and Roberts he was dubbed
by the critics of the day as “grotesque, mean-
ingless and incoherent,” “a house-painter’s
apprentice,” and one of his portraits was de-
scribed as “a hydrocephalous doll, with glass
eyes, wooden hands and a broken nose, almost
buried in a mass of white paint.” Streeton
had been affected strongly by the impressionism
then fashionable in Paris, and with intense en-
thusiasm he, Roberts, Conder and others started
to apply it to the Australian scene. They
occupied an old disused house at Eaglemont
overlooking the Yarra valley, and later moved
to an old brick house belonging to some
Chinese market gardeners; it has since fallen
to pieces. Immediately above them was the
site of the home Rolf Boldrewood lived in until
it was burned down by a jealous swain who
was in love with the Brown family’s servant.
Near by was the home of Francois de Castilla,
Australia’s veteran viticulturist. In the dilapi-
dated Chinese dwelling the young artists washed
down their day’s painting of little landscapes
with wine and argued and discussed and wrote
excited letters to fellow-artists. It was at the
stage when he could confidently ask £lOOO for
a picture that Streeton’s huge gallery landscapes
were painted, but he probably liked those earlier
little landscapes better. One of the last pic-
tures he painted caused almost as much of a
sensation as the original “9 x 5” exhibition.
During the last prohibition referendum in Vic-
toria Toorakians woke up one morning to the
spectacle of a huge poster which he had set
up in his garden laughing at the wowsers.
Being a prisoner of war in Germany
hasn’t prevented Major M, A. Bull, a
former Canterbury College (M.L.)
student, passing his first section for the
Bachelor of Commerce degree. The
exam, was carried through by correspon-
dence, and the result has been sent by
airmail to Major Bull, who is the first
M.L. prisoner of war to pass an exam,
in such circumstances.
Ray Parer, whose life has been one
thrilling adventure after another, was in
the news again last week in as different
a role as could be imagined. He has set
up in the fairly tony Sydney suburb of
Woollahra as a grocer. It came out in the
Licensing Court, which granted him the
transfer of a spirit-merchant’s license,
everybody, including the police, saying
hear, hear, and Inspector L. F. Allmond
personally weighing in with as telling a
testimonial as the Court has ever heard.
“In 1916,” said the Inspector, “Parer was
a captain with the R.A.F. At the end of
the last war he made his epic flight from
England. He entered commercial avia-
tion and founded the Goldfields Avia-
tion Service, flying stores into the gold-
fields of New Guinea from the mainland.
In the Japanese occupation of New
Guinea he lost his ’planes and stores
depots, and joined the R.A.A.F. as a
flying-instructor. As his health prevented
him from taking part in operational
duties, he resigned and joined a U.S. ser-
vice as a chief engineer, and remained
with them until his ship was sunk
recently by Japanese aircraft,”
Woman Pilot No. 1;
Mrs. Hilda Beatrice Hewlett, widow of novel-
ist Maurice Hewlett (she has passed on at
Tauranga, M.L.), was one of the earliest woman
motorists in England, and in 1910 learned to
fly, in France. Returning to England with a
a machine, she obtained the first woman’s
pilot certificate, opened an air training school
at Brooklands, and later established con-
struction works at Luton. In 1914-18 her firm
built machines for the British Government.
After the war she settled at Tauranga, North
Island, where her son joined her after his re-
tirement from the R.A.F. in 1934. Her son is
one of the oldest flying officers of the R.A.F.
in the matter of flying service; he obtained his
certificate at his mother’s school in 1911.
Millionaire Sir Harry Oakes, whose
death led to his son-in-law, Count Alfred
de Marigny, being committed for trial last
week on a murder charge, got to his
riches by a hard road. When he was
leaving school Oakes was asked what
were his plans and replied “I’m going to
find a goldmine,” That was in 1896.
Fifteen years later, penniless after search-
ing for gold around the globe, he was
jumping the rattler and was booted off the
train near Kirkland Lake, Ont., and there
found the El Dorado which enabled him
to become an English baronet with a for-
tune estimated at $200,000,000.
H. E. Thonemann, M.L.A. for Toorak,
provided a neat parody of Churchill’s
most famous aphorism when he suggested
in the Victorian Leg. Assembly that
“Hansard” should be abolished. Asked
by indignant members why he thought so
he replied: “It is seldom read because
it contains too much about too little.”
Thonemann is a member of Melbourne
Stock Exchange, Graziers’ Federal Coun-
cil and Australian Woolgrowers’ Asso-
ciation, but his chief pet is Elsey and
Hodgson Downs (N.T.), in which cattle
stations he’s a partner. It was there that
Mrs. zEneas Gunn was inspired to write
We of the Never Never, and there Thone-
mann conducts a large-scale experiment
in providing hundreds of abos. and their
wives and children with conditions that
approximate to Nature’s.
Beat this and play fair:
A record that will take beating belongs to
No. 1 Squadron Australian Flying Corps, which
served in the Middle East in the 1914-18 war.
Members of it in the R.A.A.F. for the present
war are; Air Marshal R. Williams, C. 8.,
C.8.E., D. 5.0.; Air Vice-Marshals A. T. Cole,
C. D. 5.0., M.C., D.F.C., and F. H.
McNamara, V.C., C.8.E.; Air Commodores
F. W. Lukis, C.8.E., and A. W. Murphy,
D. A.F.C.; Group-Captain A. W. L. Ellis,
M.C.; Wing-Commanders G. Finlay, D.F.C.,
A. R. Brown, D.F.C., E. A. Mustar, D.F.C.,
and J. V. Tunbridge, M.C.; Squadron-Leaders
H. Bowden Fletcher, D.F.C., S. I. Winter-
Irving, M.C., G. F. Rutledge, C. H. Vautin,
A. V. McCann, D.F.C., and S. M. Artaud;
Flight-Lieutenants E. S. B. Beaton, D.F.C., A.
Kirk, D.F.C., P. J. McGinness, D.F.C.,
D.C.M., N. H. Clutterbuck, H. D. Parry-
Okeden, E. L. Chauncey, M. D. Lees, R. S.
Adair and L. M. Potts—a total of 25, of whom
16 have been decorated. Also Wing-Commander
C. Ransome and Squadron-Leader G. Randall,
D. both served in the R.A.A.F. for over
two years until retired on account of ill-health.
In addition, Hudson Fysh, D.F.C., is managing
director of Qantas, Major Murray Jones, D. 5.0.,
M.C., of De Havillands, and Wing-Commander
L. J. Wackett, of Commonwealth Aircraft Cor-
poration.
One of the most unexpected questions
in the late electioneering cropped up at a
C.P. meeting convened in a mountainous
electorate in Victoria to hear Captain M.
H. Moyes, R.A.N., 0.8. E., express his
views on current problems. It was just
after three young people had been lost
in the snow near Mount Bogong, and
when the chairman asked Tor questions a
man got up and put the query: “How do
you account for the fact that three ex-
pert skiers collapsed and died on such a
short journey, Captain?” He would have
had to go a long way to find anyone
more competent to reply to that than
Captain Moyes, who was at Queen Mary
Land with the Australasian Antarctic
Expedition of 1911, a member of the
Shackleton Relief Expedition in the Ross
Sea in 1916, and survey-officer in the Dis-
covery in the Antarctic Research Expe-
dition, 1929-30. The problems affecting
the nation were promptly forgotten and
the rest of the evening was spent in dis-
cussing the fate of the three skiers.
Arthur George Warner, Controller of
Finance to the Ministry of Muni-
tions, is managing director of Elec-
tronic Industries, An Englishman who
came to Australia after serving as
a flight-lieutenant in the R.N. in
the last war, he farm*ed in the Apple
Isle for a couple of years, then qualified
as an accountant, crossed to Melbourne
in 1922 and commenced retailing and
importing radio. The company he de-
ARTHUR GEORGE WARNER.
veloped now has a staff of 1100 doing
100 p.c. war work making secret radio
equipment. Warner is 43.
Unanimously elected mayor of Heidel-
berg (Vic.), Mrs. Nellie Grace Ibbott be-
comes the first woman in Victoria to
occupy a mayoral chair. Since she came
to Australia in 1923 and settled in the
shire where Streeton, Tom Roberts, the
Lindsay brothers and others formed a
famous school of painters, she has sat as
chairman on every committee of the
Heidelberg council, and in argument can
face up to any controversial male. She
will preside over a “wet” cupboard,
according to an official statement.
Back in Adelaide after a couple of
years with the R.A.F. in England, Flight-
Lieut. Rees knows what Germany looks
like from an owl’s-eye view—as observer,
he took part in 38 bombing raids over
Hitler’s country. On the job a few
REES, D.F.C.
months back he won the D.F.C. His
twin brother, after serving in the Middle
East and New Guinea with the A.1.F.,
is now training to be a pilot with the
R.A.A.F.
Frank Barnes, Melbourne engineer,
read with special interest the cabled
report that the degaussing invention,
which did more than anything else
to beat the magnetic mine, is to be
included in a documentary film depicting
how scientists and inventors had helped
the war effort. In England when mag-
netics started dropping in the Thames,
Barnes started working on the prob-
lem and within 24 hours provided
the answer to Hitler’s “secret” weapon.
The Admiralty lost no time in put-
ting it into operation, and the device
was so simple that within a few
days ships were sailing with the fitting
which took the sting out of the menace.
Barnes says he is ready to fly to England
to assist in the production of the film.
Into the silence;
English Test cricketer Hedley Verity, while
p.o.w. He had been wounded in the chest in
the Sicily fighting and had to be left behind
when the company was temporarily forced back,
his batman remaining with him. A Yorkshire-
man, he was one of the most popular of all
Test players.
At 80, W. W. Jacobs, whose humorous
yarns of British coasters made him the most
popular magazine writer of his day. Jacobs
wrote prolifically, and his stories gave Britain
a better understanding of the men on the ships
which poked in and out of the small coast
ports. He was a Jew.
At 69, Ernest Augustine Coyle, M.L.A. for
Waranga, and Chairman of Committees of the
Vic. Assembly since 1935. Born at Eaglehawk,
he founded the firm of Weir and Coyle, stock
and station agents. Also, he started the
country children’s picnics to the beaches, a
peace-time feature of Victorian rural life.
In Adelaide, at 81, Whitmore Blake (“Doc”)
Carr, outstanding in S.A. public affairs and
known throughout Australia as chairman of
the S.A.J.C. and turf administrator. In the
course of over half a century’s association with
the Adelaide Stock Exchange he was chairman
for 25 years, and he was its only life member.
At Wellington (M.L.), at 75, A. E. Fowler,
Deputy Commissioner of Taxes from 1914 to
1925, and then Commissioner for three years.
Born in Otago, he’d been in the M.L. civil
service since 1885.
At Auckland (M.L.), Charles Yorke Gray,
third generation of a family of mummers.
With his wife, whose stage name was Daisy
Yates, he trod the boards in Australia and
M.L. till his retirement fifteen years ago. Lat-
terly he’d managed the Embassy Picture
Theatre in Auckland.
Elizabeth Coombs, who held the record of
94 years’ residence in Dunedin (M.L.). Born
in John Knox’s house in Edinburgh, she first
lived in Dunedin in a wattle-and-clay dwelling.
Of her five children, two (Frank and Charles)
live in Sydney. Her marriage in 1870 was the
last one performed by Dr. Burns, a nephew of
Rab of that ilk. .
In Sydney, Alfred Booth Jones, a Davis
Cup player in Australia's great tennis days
before 1914-18, and a particularly graceful
stylist. Latterly he was a trust officer with the
Perpetual Trustee co. His two sons are in the
forces.


Society
"AND IT'S PRINTED
WITH WIMBLES INKS"
“Mac Hoots”: At Wirths’ circus on a
Saturday afternoon I saw an astonishing
example of that single-mindedness by
which great men have climbed from log
cabin to White House. It had occurred
to an urchin aged three that a discarded
ice-cream bucket was an object of in-
comparable beauty and utility, and he
plunged delightedly into the dust be-
neath my chair to retrieve it. Under the
next chair he perceived another; under
the next chair another; everybody in
that crowded tent had been eating ice-
cream and carelessly throwing away the
beautiful and useful buckets. The urchin
decided to make a collection. “Gunna
take ’em home!” he muttered. Lions
leapt in the arena and snarled with ill-
concealed amiability at the trainer;
those ponderous somnambulists the ele-
phants performed their evolutions with a
serenity undisturbed by the cries of a
young lady who was apparently a British
officer facing the hordes of Japan in the
Burmese jungle, abandoned by all ex-
cept her faithful pachyderms ; three of
the Misses Wirth grew wings and flew
over our heads; the funniest of the
amazingly funny Francis troupe covered
himself obligingly with flour: and the
urchin, with his back turned firmly upon
it all, collected ice-cream buckets. When
I last saw him he was staggering under
a load, twice his own height, that looked
like the Leaning Tower of Pisa, and he
was still searching for more. If I had
had half that young man’s industry, per-
severance and utter contempt for the
“Seems to be in a hurry to get home.”
frivolities of the herd I might by now
have been the editor of the “Sydney
Morning Herald.”
* * * *
“Petermac”: Most of the Sydney
Rugby Union players are service men
these days and are doubtful or last-
minute starters, so clubs have resorted to
filling the gaps with “has-beens” and
schoolboys, particularly in the lower
grades. In a third-grade match last
week, after the dust had cleared from a
fierce ruck in midfield, a player lay prone
and helpless. The ambulance men
rushed out to render first-aid, and carried
him gently to the sideline. Anxiously the
Zam-buks bent over the patient, a stout
man in his thirties. Opening his eyes at
last he looked around for a minute and
then puffed out “There’s nothin’ (puff)
wrong, Zam-buk. I jist (puff) wanted a
spell—haven’t (puff) played for eight
years!”
* * * *
“Cauboy”; The most striking feature
of the current symphony season at
Melbourne Town Hall is the array of
young people who sit nodding their
heads out of tune to the music and then
stream out to the foyer to pass animated
judgment. They are an en-
tirely new lot; old concert-
goers look in vain for a
familiar face amongst them.
In my experience the person-
nel of Melbourne concert
audiences regularly changes
about every four years. In
other words, there are four
years or so of hope and en-
thusiasm ; then boredom. In-
evitable, I should say, in the
case of music-lovers who are
content to listen and have no
ambition to play or sing. In
any case the average concert-
frequenter knows very little
about music. If the strings
played the parts allotted to
the wood-wind, the brasses
switched to the double bass
parts and the big drum essayed
the violin solo, while the hall
porter conducted instead of
Bernard Heinze, some of them
wouldn’t notice any difference.
Yet they are as definite in their
judgments as a friend of mine
who started to rave about an
item. “Ah, how innocent that
pre-Bach music is!” he cried.
“That was when real music was
written!” Unfortunately he
had lost the place on the pro-
gramme and it happened to be
a piece by Stravinsky!
“Bo”: The Andrews Sisters screech-
ing about ro-mance and a ma-reen, Bing
yawping a hope that all yore Chrismissis
may be white, itate Smith, Artie Shaw
and his bunch of cacophonists, the Music
Maids turning tonic sol-fa into poison,
Tommy Dorsey and the swing band that
most of us would like to see swinging—
these and other horrific exponents of
the boogie-woogie school of music may
make dumpers of the ether waves, but at
least they don’t sail under false colors.
But I swung the knob the wrong way
one night and stumbled on an A.B.C.
“swing session.” Before I could twirl the
knob I heard the announcer declaring:
“This opus was composed as far back
as 1940.” This opus! Shades of Chopin,
Mendelssohn and Beethoven! Soon we
may anticipate: “You are now to hear
‘My Maisie’s Pan Would Stop a Clock,
but. Boy, Ain’t She a Wow!’ by Manny
Spinkelbaum, Izzy Baum and Butch
Shattawitz, Op. 114, No. 3.”
* * * *
“Hamer”: An English magazine has
included some stories about James
Edmond, “editor of the Australian Bul-
letin,” and some quotations from his
writings in an article upon “Various
Editors.” One of the memories of
Edmond I treasure is his Red Page retort
to David McKee Wright, who claimed
that Bobby Burns got his song ability
from his mother, who came from Ire-
land—everything worth-while in Art
had its origin in Ireland, according to
D.M.W. “Not even the fact that he had
never been to Ireland and never wanted
to go there showed that Robert Burns
was an Irishman,” wrote Edmond. That
was his typical manner. Once I met him
laden with parcels for a young relative’s
birthday party ; I was myself carrying
four bottles of beer. “Ah, I see you, too,
have been shopping,” remarked James.
* * * *
“Oxmead”: Some of these alleged
phrases from war-time slang (B. 1/8/ 43)
are quite untrue to label. Two of such
particularly struck me in a sort of glos-
sary -of “service terms” published in
England and reviewed by an Australian
daily. One was “hopping the twig” as a
synonym for ceasing to exist, to which a
“Poor Bill! Survives four campaigns and then falls for THAT!”
Canadian origin was assigned. Actually,
it is a well-worn Cockneyism, as old as
“kicking the bucket,” and I can recall
hearing it in my far-distant boyhood. The
other was “a donkey’s breakfast,” a
cheerful colloquialism for a mattress or
palliasse stuffed with straw. I encountered
the phrase—and the article itself —some
50 years ago when I was booking a berth
in a sailing ship where passengers were
expected to provide their own bedding.
Plenty of sailors must be familiar with
it.
* * * *
“J.H.C.G.”: “Golden Mile” (B.
25/8/ ’43), referring to Hoover as g.m. of
the Sons of Gwalia mine, is confusing
him with his chum Loreing. Both of
them, as smart young mining engineers,
came from the U.S.A. to good positions
on the W.A. goldfields about 1899,
Hoover being head serang for Bewick,
Moreing and Co., of London. Under
Hoover I worked as an assistant assayer
in 1900, St. John Smith being head
assayer. Then and for many subsequent
years Loreing managed the Sons of
Gwalia.
* * * *
“Arter”: The apostle of “modernism”
in art who currently represents Sydney’s
Granny “Herald” in matters aesthetic let
in some light upon the new standards of
criticism by waxing lyrical about one of
the exhibits at the Society of Artists’
show:
The poetry in “Girl in Bed” is sheer joy.
The girl is barely visible, yet the trembling
bunch of flowers —carelessly thrown upon
the bed, with their fragile colors faintly
sparkling in the great expanse of a faded
green bedcover —seems to testify to her ten-
der youth. The delicate line traced by this
cover, wavering, pausing, abruptly changing
its course and resuming it with a slow and
subtle movement, exemplifies the purity
to which the flowers already have given
their sweet aroma.
Some epigrammist once said you wouldn’t
get more out of a picture than you could
take to it. Granny’s critic took such a
cartload along that old hardened painters
who read his prose poem murmured
“golly!” and were quite subdued. Not
so, however, landscapist and business-
man Charles Lloyd Jones, who entered
Granny’s correspondence columns to de-
mand why “artists whose business in life
is to paint, who have been trained in art
many years, some of them winning art
scholarships and supplementing then-
studies here with years abroad,” should
be brushed aside as if they didn't exist,
and why such “windy phrases” as those
quoted should pass as criticism. Mr.
Jones was told in effect that it was
because he and other N.S.W. Gallery
Trustees were old stick-in-the-muds that
the National Gallery contained so little
of the beautiful new art. Up rose then
Will Ashton, Gallery Director, to recite
some recent purchases, including works
by Rembrandt and Diirer, and to point
to the examples of Gauguin, Marquet,
Derain et cie already on the Gallery walls,
All in vain. Mr. Ashton was told his
Gauguin did not “represent the master’s
maturity,” and, as a crushing blow to his
solar plexus, was reminded that the
Gallery had “bought” 52 of the works of
Norman Lindsay—a painter who, as even
infant lisping “modernists” know, is a
mere representationist; whose pictures
anybody can understand and which
people in every civilised part of the world
have bought.
* * * *
“F.S.”; In a speech thanking council-
lors for giving him the customary second
term of office, Lud Mayor Nettlefold
claimed that during his first year of office
he had endeavored to inculcate a love of
music and art in the citizenry of Mel-
bourne and believed he had succeeded, as
evidenced by large attendances at Concerts
and exhibitions. But I am afraid the
chief factors in the present devotion to
culture are the fact that so many people
have highly-paid jobs, the closing of ordi-
nary avenues of investment by regulation
so that people tend to buy pictures and
antiques, the Saturday night overflow
from the pitchers and the presence of
Allied soldiers who got the concertgoing
habit in their homeland before they knew
Lud Mayor Nettlefold existed. The big-
gest crowd I ever saw at a Melbourne
art show was when the exhibiting artist
invited an alluring musical comedy actress
to open his exhibition.
SPRING.
ŵ
N.S.W.
T. THE R.
THEIR UNUSUAL GAME.
“Owing to the shortage of tennis balls and other
sporting equipment, these men could not play their
usual games, and they had to have some recreation.
—Solicitor in Campsie police court defending 2
two-up players.
In normal times they might have come together,
And doubtless would, like other sportive souls,
To chase excitedly the whirling leather
Or bang it accurately at the goals.
But now, debarred the wholesome recreation
That erst engaged them many a time and ott,
They turned to the illegal occupation
Of spinning browns aloft.
One likes to think that, had occasion offered.
They’d have preferred, with racquets in then
fIStS, r J
To emulate the artistry of Crawford ,
Or bend their efforts to becoming Quists.
But tennis gear is not to be afforded
In days like these, except by those with whips
Of bunce, whereas as yet there’s no recorded
Rise in the price of kips.
They had no chance to exercise their muscles,
Because no opportunity allowed,
In those more strenuous athletic tussles
That win the cheers of an admiring crowd.
Instead they strove perforce where scarce a
holler .
Is raised, the tense expectancy amid.
Save something on the lines of “Heads a
dollar!”
Or, maybe, “Tails a quid!”
Wrong, was it wrong? Well, when a chap can
More at the sports where once he leapt and
ran,
Surely, to keep mens sana in corpore sano,
He needs must turn to anything he can.
The plea might well have touched the Couit,
you’d say, or
Softened the flinty hearts of the police.
But no such thing. The Campsie law-purveyor
Rapped out “Two pounds apiece!
' N.S.W.
PIPARDS.


“Wodgil”; Communist union bosses
are perforce beginning to taste the nasty
medicine they and their mobs adminis-
tered so often to union men who stood
up valiantly against them. One of their
most notorious specimens went to a meet-
ing of a dissatisfied branch. He was in-
troduced by a satellite who enlarged on
his talents as an orator, his genius for
putting the boot into the boss, his devo-
tion to the Revolution, his ardor for a
Second Front in France, “ ’eld back by
the Munikeers” ; and so on. “Now, com-
rades,” the satellite concluded, “our great
gen’ral sec.’ll address you.” “No, he
won’t,” a Voice said—“l move that the
blankard be no longer heard.” He wasn’t
heard at all.
* * * *
“Pat Ater”; What has become of the
lingo of the 1914-18 war? The cry of
“marmalade” or “you’ll be sorry” that
went up as new recruits marched into
camp is heard no more. “Dungarees”
have given place to “giggle-suits,” “Oh,
you want flowers on your grave”—that
effective stopper to grouching is
out. “Bomb-happy,” “Fuzzy-Wuzzy,”
“Waaafs” and “Awas” are in. “I want to
go ho-o-me” isn’t heard now from the
A.1.F.; “Bless ’Em All” and “Waltzing
Matilda” fill the role. And humor is
grim. 1 was train-travelling with a
returned member of the Ninth—a
Tobruk Rat. We passed an aerodrome ;
some Wirraways were in the air. Mots-
head’s man gazed at them pensively,
“They’d be fruit off the sideboard for a
Messer,” he announced.
* * * *
“Lao-dah”; I see that the New Delhi
Government has once more decided to
disallow the annual pilgrimage
to Mecca because of war risks.
Before the Japs occupied the Dutch
East Indies and threatened the
Indian Ocean there was an enor-
mous annual exodus of the devout
from thie Malay Archipelago. The
clearing houses were Singapore,
Sourabaya, Batavia and Penang,
and the innocents abroad were col-
lected by native entrepreneurs who
made a handsome profit. But the
most efficient exploiting was done
at Mecca and Medina. If the pil-
grims were left with a shirt to their
backs when they faced the return
journey it was taken from them on
the way back by their co-religion-
ists, the wandering Bedouins. But
apparently it was worth it. The
returned haji was the big shot of
his village. Contact with the holy
places had made him so sacred
that he had to be carried up the
beach lest his feet be sullied, a
new door had to be knocked into
his dwelling before he could enter,
and his spouse was not allowed to
share his holy slumbers for 30 days
after his arrival.
“C. 8.”: A blithered individual got
into a crowded compartment in a Mel-
bourne suburban train, banged a burst-
ing kitbag full of bottles on to the floor,
squeezed himself down alongside a fel-
low-passenger and, beaming around, re-
marked: “Not such a bad lot, eh?”
Having been hit in passing by the bale
of bottles his neighbor raised a mild ob-
jection. “Try some and keep cool,” said
the intruder. He didn’t know that he was
giving one of the Commissioners of the
Victorian Railways first-hand evidence
that there was something in customers’
complaints about drunkenness On that
line.
* * * *
“Nor’-west”: “Propalong’s” gang wait-
ing for the new jackeroo to be taken sick
through handling flyblown wool (B.
4/8/’43) reminds me of the first time 1
went deep-sea fishing in a 30-footer,
There were also the skipper and a couple
of fairly experienced hands. With a
choppy sea they waited in joyful anti-
cipation for me to make for the side. But
there was nothing doing, though hours
passed and even the two hands began to
look a bit green. When lunchtime came
and the skipper and I waded into fried
sausages-—well, that settled those two
blokes. I wasn’t much afraid of being
seasick, and I knew the skipper was im-
mune, for, apart from his long experience
of the waves, he had blue eyes, like myself.
The other two hands hadn’t. So if “P.”
ever again waits for a new hand to be-
come queasy first look at his eyes. It
isn’t an infallible rule, for one meets
exceptions, but invariably the blue-eyed
one can keep a stronger grip on his
stomach than the man with eyes varying
from brown to black.
* * * *
“Blue P.”: Don’t tell me women
haven’t the faculty of observation. Went
to my suburban film house last week and
saw “The Ghost Goes West.” The
moment the feminine lead appeared on
the screen a disgusted female voice
behind me snorted “Huh, this picture
must be ten years old. Look at that
dress!” I looked. It didn’t seem any
different from the dresses I see every
day,, but I haven t the feminine eye for
k '* * * *
“p. Ater”: It's time they stopped the
slaughter of remaining historic relics
along our Road of Romance—and early
expansion over the Blue Mountains
(N.S.W.). Owing to savant Tom Mc-
Menamy, now m his eighties, the last re-
maining post of a stockade adjoining the
old Academy on the highway at Wood-
ford was recognised and saved. Many a
poor convict spent the night in chains
or was herded here when Captain
Bull took charge at “Bull’s Camp,” near
Linden, to widen the toad in its
narrowest bottleneck of the whole Blue
Mountains crossing at The Barrier,
Chipped grooves in the sandstone near
by were made to give the lashman a
better footing when wielding the thongs,
and low rock cave excavations housed
prisoners in confinement. Evidence
seems to show, however, that Bull was a
humane master and abolished whipping,
The caves may have been storehouses of
explosives used in road-blasting. Mc-
Menamy still lives at the Academy, over
which he once presided. Prior to that
the old building had been a residential,
but it started as the military barracks of
the New South Wales Corps in 1837, and
the foundation stones, with old fire-
places, are still intact, indicating officers’
barracks near by. It was perhaps the
need for good cheer by N.S.W. Corps
officers which gave rise to the grant for a
“respectable inn” to one Hogan in 1841.
“Gad, Prendergast, these Wrans can show the men a thing or two!”
Known as “Buss’s Inn” it was a coach stop-
ping place and halfway house exactly a
century ago. The room where gold was
locked is still there, and though the strong-
room door leading off the stone veran-
dah is built in its outline remains. The
old Pilgrim Inn of Wascoe’s Town (now
Blaxland) has been remodelled as a resi-
dence. In the winter the old “ghost-
trees” which frame its outline give an
eerie aspect. Those big pear-trees are
perhaps over 100 years old.
* * * *
“Spook”: Someone has dug up a
description of General Montgomery as a
boy written by a school contemporary of
his for a school magazine. Headed “The
Monkey,” Bernard’s nickname at school,
it runs: “This intelligent animal makes
its nest in football fields, football vests
and other such accessible resorts. It is
vicious, of unflagging energy, and much
feared by neighboring animals owing to
its unfortunate tendency of trying to pull
out the top hair of the head. To foreign
fauna it shows no mercy, stamping on
their heads, twisting their necks and doing
many other inconceivable atrocities with
a view, no doubt, to proving its patriot-
ism. To hunt this animal is a dangerous
undertaking. Even if caught he is not
good eating.” There is much there with
which Rommel, Thoma and Arnim would
agree.
**. * *
“Strict Veg.”: Despite “Relater ’ (B.
25/8/’43) I still doubt that Einsteins
theory of relativity can be taught in 26
“easy” lessons. When Albert first pro-
pounded his theory most physicists of
the day thought he was talking nonsense ;
just as eminent professors thought Galileo
demented on an earlier occasion. I was
brought up on Newton’s Principle, and
I can no more understand what Einstein
is driving at than a cow can sing grand
opera. If Einstein is accepted, the next
generation will be brought up on his
theory, and it will be as natural for it to
think in terms of bending light rays as
it is for the present generation to think
in terms of Newton. With the aid of a
book on popular hobbies a small boy can
do things by turning a knob that Faraday
never dreamed of. But it could hardly
be said that he understood electricity as
Faraday did.
* * * *
“Nakh”: War conditions have been
responsible for some strange changes in
values. An elderly woman living in one
of Melbourne’s outer suburbs was so well
known to have a sentimental attachment
for horses that when a farmer had an
old nag which was due for the knacker’s
yard he would say to his hand: “Drive
it past Miss X’s. She will buy it.” In
this simple way she acquired about 40
steeds in various stages of decrepitude,
which she grazed on her extensive acres.
When petrol rationing brought the horse
back the mob suddenly became of value,
and some of the former owners wanted
to buy their animals back.
* * *
“Heresone”: The finger-ring habit
among men reached Australia ahead of
our Allies (B. 11/8/’43). Quite a few of
the original Sixth Div. men wore them,
and they improved in favor in the Middle
East, especially a silver death’s-head
affair peddled by the Wogs. Those lads
“Mac Hoots” saw were probably copying
their fathers or elder brothers.
# jfc sfc *
“Hamer”: I first struck beer schooners
in M.L. The “West Coast schooner” was
a mammoth, apparently made especially
for the bars in Westland, a mining pro-
vince populated by very hearty drinkers.
I’m told the term came originally from
the U.S.A., where, if you bought a
“schooner,” you got a huge vessel con-
taining waste beer run from bar trays
into buckets and sold cheap to tramps.
Schooners being the tramp carriers of
all-sorts cargoes, the application was easy.
By-and-bye, when the sale of slop beer
was prohibited in various States, the name
remained as a designation for large-sized
drinks.
# ♦ ♦ ♦
“Chevroford”: The reluctance of a 16-
year-old Collingwood youth to return to
the children’s welfare depot from which
he had escaped was so intense as to
enable him to perform remarkable feats.
Sighted by the police in a Spencer-street
hotel, he made for the roof and jumped
from it on to the roof of an adjoining
four-storey building. Then he leaped
across a lane on to a fire-escape stairway,
a third jump landing him on another
building 20ft. below with a broken ankle.
His explanation was “I hate coppers.”
“R.M.”: Aye, “McSnitch” (B.
25/8/’43), we Scots have a passion for
accuracy. There are times when it is
justifiable. A contributor in the O.F.M.
page writes “England staggered to her
feet after Dunkirk... .England presented
a united front.... England withstood the
greatest ordeal in history.... Had Eng-
land fallen we were g0ne....” Why
England? The gallant rearguard action
of the 51st Highland Division, which did
not get away, contributed to the suc-
cessful evacuation of Dunkirk. There
are many names on Britain’s scroll of
fame that are not English. Capt. Fogarty
Fegen, V.G., of the Jervis Bay ; “Paddy”
Finucane, and Evans of the Broke, to
mention only a few. Render unto Britain
those honors that are Britain’s.
* * * *
“Listening Insect”: Mankind appears
to be passing through the Gadget Age.
Most of my friends are obsessed with
gadgets, especially the musically-minded.
With the aid of miles of wire, incredible
quantities of valves, masses of coils,
switches, boosters and tweeters they oper-
ate on the great composers and change
their effects by emphasising the notes of
the brasses or the strings or the wood-
wind. Beethoven intended his music to
be listened to en bloc, not in bits and
sections, just as a painter expects his pic-
ture to be seen as a single thing and not
analysed anatomically, and just as Shak-
speare meant the message of his plays
to be immediate and not subjected to dis-
section by grammarians and professors,
The people who fiddle with gadgets will
muck up music completely,
* * * *
“Melbn”: Melbourne is beginning to
experience beefless menus in the cafes,
and is facing the prospect of beefless days
for housewives. It seems a funny thing
that in a country where rabbits are a pest
and meat is to be rationed you can’t get
rabbits. Properly cooked they are a per-
feet food, and in France are considered
a greater delicacy than chicken. With a
little organisation sufficient rabbits could
be obtained to make the absence of beef
unnoticed as well as removing a menace
to the farmer, one of whom has had
10,000 cabbages eaten by bunnies recently
j n m y district.
* * * *
“Hamer”: Reference by “F.S.” (B.
18/8/’43) to powers of observation reminds
me. Jimmy Nangle, for years N.S.W.
Director of Technical Training, firmly
believed that the key to happiness was the
discovery for each person of the work
that best suited him. When told that a
certain particularly smart youngster
wanted to be an engineer he snorted
“Every boy thinks he wants to be an
engineer.” Then he asked the youngster
how many wheels there were on
an “N” class locomotive, and
when the boy couldn’t tell him,
discarded the engineering idea.
But he delved into the lad’s amuse-
ments, discovered he had had a
hobby of making boats, and ap-
prenticed the boy (a ward of the
State) to a boatbuilder. Nangle
wasn’t wrong. The lad was a
partner in the concern in ten
years, and is now head of a much-
grown firm which is giving valu-
able help to Australia’s war effort.
* * *
A Melbourne violinist
who serves behind a music-shop
counter has had a quaint experi-
ence. His firm sold a young
woman a violin. After a few
days she brought it back and
handed it to the assistant, com-
plaining that it was no good.
“What is the matter with it?”
asked the assistant. “It makes
simply awful noises,” said the
customer. The assistant made a
few passes with the bow across
the strings and mildly remarked
“It seems to me to have quite a
nice tone.” The damsel went off
to seek the manager with an ex-
w


ABORIGINALITIES
“Old-timer”: Plenty of people believe
that, no matter how battered and torn a
snake may be, it never dies till sundown.
I’ve seen a bushman blow a serpentine
head clean off in the morning and then
aver that the thing would have life in it
till sunset. Whence sprang this belief
in the effect of the sun on the ophidian
heart I don’t know, but when I heaved
the carcass of one into the roaring fire-
box of a 30ft. boiler at a Murray River
pumping station and then said to a bush-
man “There, I’ll bet that blanker’s dead
before sundown,” he looked at me doubt-
fully and then eyed the smoke from the
stack as though expecting to see a sinu-
ous ghost appear and float around in
the summer air waiting for the sun to go
down. This same cove, who’d been all
his 45 years in the bush and had killed
thousands of snakes, once bet me a new
hat that a snake stung with its forked
tongue. The bet made, he agreed to
accept a weekly paper known as “the
Bushman’s Bible” as an authority. When
the paper duly announced his error he
refused to pay, saying “Aw, them blokes
down in the city. What do they know
about it? They’d say anything!”
“R.D.D.”: The storm came up quicker
than I expected, so I dropped my burr-
cutting hoe and made for a big gum
about a hundred yards away. I found it
had a natural shelter, somewhat like a
sentry box, right at the butt. I was just
about to crawl in when a carpet-snake
about 12ft. long flopped down on the
ground at my feet, coming apparently
from the hollow in the centre of the tree.
It made off speedily towards a hollow log
some 50 yards away. Thereupon, think-
ing there might be another and bigger
carpet in it, I decided against the tree. I
was a few hundred yards away from it
when the storm burst. It was heralded
by a mighty flash of lightning, which
struck the old gum, shattering it. I am
still wondering if the snake’s exit wtfs
due to coincidence or its premonition of
danger.
* * * *
“Lower Tops’l”: Mention of a black
as being skipper of the old Hobart whaler
Marie Laure, at present a hulk in Mel-
bourne (B. 11/8/’43), recalls that this
Cape de Verde Islander was William
Smith, a brother of Black Louis, finder
of the richest prize in the history of Tas-
manian whaling. Around 1890 at Port
Davey, that fine harbor on the Speck’s
rugged west coast, Black Louis and his
mate Black Harry were what is known
as tonguers. In a small boat they fol-
lowed the whaleships, which towed their
catches to those smooth waters for trying-
out, and after the whale’s carcass had
been stripped of its blubbery envelope
and discarded the tonguers, on their own
behalf, scraped the bones for any oily
flesh left. The crew of the Derwent
barque Waterwitch gave the pair the rem-
nant of a sperm whale, and in its jaws
Louis found a lump of ambergris that
went 1801 b. and realised £6OOO. Black
Harry built a pub and stocked it at
Recherche, the southernmost township in
the Commonwealth. When the authorities
refused him a license he drank his stock-
in-trade and died within a year. Black
Louis 1 saw 20 years ago working in his
apple orchard overlooking the sea at
Southport, Tasmania.
* * * *
“Curra-warra”; On my way to Flem-
ington on Australian Steeple day I opened
the current Bulletin to pass away a few
minutes; my glance fell directly on
“Mat’s Mate” on the Abo. page. Later,
on opening my racebook, the same thing
happened, “Mat’s Mate” being a run-
ner in the first race. The coincidence
was surely too striking to mean nothing.
Scrapping my carefully-selected form
horse I rushed into the ring and emerged
well pleased with my dollar e.w. bet at
long odds. But it was a mean trick of
Fate; the moke ran nowhere. That’s
half a “flag” “M.M.” owes me.
* * * *
“B. A. Ker”: My tripehound, a cross
between an Airedale and a clandestine
adventurer, stands about two feet six
high and weighs. I’d say, about six or
seven stone. But, like his boss, he is not
conspicuously brave, so when his Robe-
son-like voice, accompanied by unmis-
takable sounds of canine warfare, came
floating from the road investigation was
called for. With commendable discre-
tion Muggins had picked on a Pom.
about one-eighth his size, and for the
first time in his life appeared to be win-
ning on points. Just then a small boy
rushed into the fray, landed a few well-
placed kicks, scored with a couple of
“ 'Ere y' are. Cit y'r bottles—a zack each.”
well-aimed bricks, and, after delivering
some rather bitter comments in my direc-
tion, departed with Pom. still hurl-
ing defiance. Late that afternoon blood-
curdling yelps brought me dashing out of
the shed. Muggins, flat on his back with
feet pointing skywards, was copping the
father of hidings from an outsize in
Alsatians. It took four gallons of water
to dislodge the intruder—then I had time
to notice the small boy standing on the
roadway holding the gate open. “There!”
he yelled triumphantly, “that’ll teach your
mong to pick on a dorg ’is own size!”
Personally, I think it taught him not to.
❖ * * *
“Theo D. Lite”: Was discussing axes
with an American major. The U.S.
lumber industry, of course, sticks to the
double-headed axe ; our own Kelly and
Plumb are used on farms and in back-
yards, but when they put a new handle in
they don’t saw off the tip and hit towards
the axehead, but hit at right angles to the
long sloping cut as supplied by the maker.
It is claimed to be much more effective.
Has anyone tried it here?
* * * *
“M.U.R.”; Tell “Horseless Horseman”
it’s 24 years since I first hit Euston (B.
1/9/’43). Pneumonic ’flu was raging, and
everybody was masked. The cop advised
Bill ’n’ me to smother our dials or get
run in. But the store had sold out of the
things, and we fell back on the “table-
cloth” handkerchiefs we used those days.
So, got up like a couple of western
American bandits, we did the town,
accepting and returning greetings. That
night, in the gloom outside Billy Leslie’s
store, 1 was standing idly when a fair
and buxom lass, masked, cantered up,
made noises of pleasure and rubbed a
soft cheek against my leathery one —the
mask stopped osculatory greetings. Then
she discovered her mistake, whinnied with
embarrassment and withdrew. Though
I infested the district for 3i years after
that I never found out who she was,
despite that there weren’t more than a
dozen spinsters in 100 square miles. The
mask had been a perfect disguise. And
the Brett boys! Did “H.H.” ever hear
how Percy went to Mildura for a few
days and spent them sitting on the kerb
outside a music shop listening to the
gramophone, miserable because it was
the first time in his life he had nothing
to do?
* * * *
“Anthropo”: If an abo. gives an
answer to a question the way he thinks
the questioner wants it (B. 4/8/’43), it
isn’t because*he is like a child mentally,
but because he considers the questioner
to fill that description. In his primitive
state the abo. didn’t ask indiscriminate
and often foolish questions—he observed.
And the fact that such observation sup-
plied him with all the information he
required and thus caused him to abstain
from venting much curiosity often led
whites to imagine he was “dumb.” But
the fact that he could take any new
scene or experience, from a mass conver-
sion to a hanging, and reproduce such as
a cobba-cooba play proved him a very
intent observer. So just as most adults
become bored with a child’s over-inces-
sant questions and give answers least
likely to lead to further debate, so the
abo. with the white, whom he regards as
a child. For the abo. suffers no inferior-
ity complex ; he from the first considered
himself the equal of the white, and even
today, though he and she may be induced
for a consideration to serve, there is no-
thing of servility in their attitude.
* * * *
“B. 4”; Of all creatures fish appear to
be least able to withstand sudden and
extreme changes of temperature. In
some Queensland bore streams an almost
translucent minnow will scurry for the
warmth of the borehead during a thunder-
storm, whilst laggards, suddenly chilled
and bewildered, float away. The
jewey catfish is peculiarly susceptible
to cold snaps. During winter -these
fish associate in three separate cliques.
The big fellows hug the bottom,
above them lie the middleweights, while
nearer the surface laze the lightweights;
and none will look at a bait. But the cold
strikes to the very bottom in this rocky
mountain brook, and pale piscatorial
corpses lie belly up on the weeds. Eels
become dizzy and sluggish and can be
taken by hand from the shallows where
the cold numbed them as they prowled
in search of prey. As for the mountain
minnows, they die like flies to the satis-
faction of the shrimps, which seem im-
mune to icebergs,
* % :fc
“Jumbuck”; No wonder “Propalong’s”
sympathy went out to those sheep he saw
“drifting” across a paddock “sterns to
the wind” (B. 25/8/’43). There must
have been something very much the
matter with those sheep, as, although
horses and cattle do stand or travel with
their sterns to the wind, sheep “drift” with
their heads into it. “Let “P.” try to drive
weak sheep with the wind and he’ll soon
find out how the jumbucks object to
travelling that way. I’ve seen sheep perish
m a corner simply because they wouldn’t
turn about and travel with the wind to
where they knew water existed.
“lan J.”; Here is another tough
merino. A farmer on the plains country
near Kerang (Vic.) during a drought year
removed a mob of merinos from a 320-
acre paddock in November because there
was no water. When he mustered them
he had to leave one sheep behind because
it had a front leg broken just below the
shoulder, and he himself was too lame
to catch it. No rain whatever fell till
near the end of March, when the sheep
were put back in the paddock. The lame
sheep was alive and well with the broken
limb atrophied off.
* * * *
“Horseless Horseman”: A mule may
be as good a mount as any behind sheep
if properly broken in (B. 21/7/’43), but
after riding them from the Gulf to the
Kimberleys I don’t expect to find that
type this side of heaven. All loppies
can change gear any time to that knock-
you-up, pile-driving canter or develop
engine trouble in a split second, though
1 have known odd ones that didn’t cow-
kick. Travelling north from Julia Creek
(N.Q.) with jumbucks in the ’26 drought,
I rode mules for weeks, and if those
jennies didn’t approve of a gate or tree
you could do only one of two things —
reverse direction or stay put for an hour
or so. Always somebody’s mule was in
trouble, so we generally had to muster,
instead of drove, the mob on camp. How-
ever, with no feed till Sedan Dip, these
mules on a diet of air did work for
which our horses were utterly useless.
Afterwards on Noonkanbah in the Kim-
berleys, a stronghold of the half-caste
horses, I saw Robbie the mailman come
through rivers and mud from Derby with
nine mules in the coach, doing the 140
miles in under 24 hours.
“Bad Australian”: “Walkabout" is
right. Low in the wither and a bit
too straight in the shoulder, the mule
is of little use for fast work among
stock, and is an uncomfortable
animal to ride, except when he hap-
pens to be an ambler, but weight for
weight and working under the same
conditions he exhibits far greater en-
durance than the horse. I once rode
a mule non-stop from the little oasis
of Toconao to Calama in the desert
of Atacama (South America), a dis-
tance of approximately 81 miles over
sand and gibbers alternating with
saltpans and alkali flats, at an alti-
tude much greater than the summit
of Kosciusko ; a region of shimmer-
ing heat waves and fantastic mirages
by day and almost Arctic cold by
night, and devoid of animal or
vegetable life. Including saddle and
water bag the mule’s burden
amounted to 14j stone. He had
no food on the journey, and no
water after the first 20 miles. Not one
horse in a hundred would stand up to
such a gruelling test.
*
“Doubting Thomas”: “Esk D.’s” yarn
about Joe plunging his hand into an
ants’ nest and the bulldogs being unable
to bite owing to his holding his breath
(B. 28/7/’43) is nice fantasy—but fan-
tasy only. Being of an inquiring mind,
I, too, have let mosquitoes plunge their
probes well in and then held my breath
hard thinking that I could swat the blood-
sucker at my leisure. But just as often
it withdrew its probe and got away before
the hand descended. And, like Joe, I’ve
let ants have a go at me, and regretted
it. I’ve even tried it with an angry bee
—and got stung on the mouth by another
one that I wasn’t watching. Actually
the inhaling and exhaling of the breath
has no effect whatever on the pores of
the skin. Anyway, the pores do not open
and shut all the time like a sponge or a
coral formation breathing water.
* * * *
“Edjudina”: One of the hardest prob-
lems about crossing a salt lake is whether
to do it booted or barefooted. If booted,
should one strike a patch where the mud
is both deep and gluey the footwear is
likely to become lost, track-worn laces
seldom being capable of withstanding the
glue and the suction. So on my first real
experience, disregarding Long Ned’s ad-
vice, I went at it barefooted. 1 regretted
it. I hadn’t counted on the sharp sticks
and thorns embedded in the mud. And,
strangely, I was quite unaware that my
feet were being cut to rags until after the
traversing was over. It’s an odd thing
that one can suffer severe cuts on a limb
that is immersed in water or mud and
be unaware of it. As a boot fastener
Long Ned swore by tarry yarn; he used
several yards making each blucher secure
before he took to the mud.
THE SWANS.
The wild black swans are leaving the old
lagoon.
Last night in the thin cold air I heard them
fluting
One to another high in the darkness, flying
Over the locked chill land where frost was lying.
Headed toward the west
Where the last faint streak of light on the low
horizon
Showed where the day had gone, they passed
unheeding
The cold, for the rose of dawn would find them
feeding
In some familiar stretch
Of watered marsh. Hidden among the rushes
There, they will rest in the amber shallows,
stripping
The pale green water-weeds with red beaks
dipping.
In sanctuaries known of old
They will stir again from idle sun and shadow
The lonely reeds, with none to disturb their
questing
And only the wind to know of their secret
nesting.
Every night of the month will find me waiting
Sounds overhead of the wild black swans
migrating
High in the windy dark . . . till the old lagoon
Lies smooth and empty of life from noon to
noon.
Tasmania.
PHYLLIS GURNEY WRIGHT.


“Moyhu”: “Mulligan always turns up
when the chaffcutter arrives,” growled
Sammy. “He says it’s to help, but it
strikes me he on’y comes for a yarn and
a feed.” “Well, I don’t suppose that will
hurt us,” remarked Dad tolerantly. “And
he’s pretty good company.” They sat
over their afternoon-tea pannikins watch-
ing Mulligan filling his pipe and yarning
to a couple of the chaffcutter hands. “Got
a pretty good heart, too,” Dad went on
as Mulligan gave each of the men a pipe-
ful. “It’s always a good sign when a man
gives away something he hasn’t got much
of.” Just then Mulligan turned and saw
us, and made to throw the pouch to Dad.
“No, thanks,” said Dad ; “I’ve got plenty
of my own.” But Mulligan wouldn’t hear
of it and tossed the tobacco across. Dad
caught it, pulled out his pipe and was
preparing to load when he stopped dead
—his own pouch!
* * * *
“Naturala”: Left alone to work things
out in her own way Nature seems capable
of checking all abnormal increases and
restoring the balance of the creatures of
her kingdom. A few years ago the region
around Perth suffered the invasion of a
peculiar small red ant. The sandy coun-
try generally was unfavorable to ants,
but these soon overcame all the difficul-
ties of nest-building among such loose-
grained material. For their size the works
they created were stupendous ; great cavi-
ties were hollowed out underground, into
which the foot would sink to the boot
top, the amount of spoil raised being in-
credible. All other species of ant per-
ished before them ; all insect ground ver-
min were exterminated, while the bees
suffered constant torment, being continu-
ally on guard to keep the hordes from
their hives. Actually it began to look as
though even humans were to fight a los-
ing battle, since even poison was of little
avail as a check. But last season showed
that the invasion was practically a
"Joe, how about letting me get back to me unit?"
failure ; the countless millions somehow
have dwindled to quite normal numbers,
with nests few and far between.
* * * *
“Apia”: The shoemaker should stand
up for leather. Therefore I liked the
speech of a Maoriland beekeeper at a
conference of such folk, extolling the
busy insect. He said that every pound of
honey represented the lifework of 500
bees, who had flown a distance equal to
the equatorial circumference of the globe
in gathering the nectar. Bees, he said,
attended strictly to their own business,
and as a result had no natural enemies
(so far as M.L. experience went).
* * * *
“Meanmean”: This “Propalong” (B.
l/9/’43) uses some queer arguments. He
alleges that no canine could stand the
pace mustering in northern S.A. Then
how in Hades did “Prop.” or his nags
stand it, seeing that any dog will outlast
man or horse?
* * * *
“Prop”: “Jummy Nurse” (B. 18/8/’43)
needs to knock around other States a bit
before talking about “queer localities.”
The station to which I referred —S.A.
top-enders will know it when I say that
Termination Hill is on the place —con-
sists partly of the red sandhills that march
unbroken west to Lake Torrens, partly of
gibber tableland and partly of an inimi-
cal collection of hills which, presumably,
were kicked out of the Flinders Range
as being too wild for a civilised mountain
chain. And as for the seasons —in Janu-
ary, 1931, there was a bumper summer
lambing in addition to the normal winter
marking, and when I left the run with
fat cattle in October of the same year
there were square miles of sand literally
carpeted with flowering parakelia. In
February, 1932, after the rabbits, those
sandhills were bare and drifting. And
“J.N.” is certainly a little innocent if he
imagines that, in those parts, a horse has
“always a man to look after him....
water and feed him and provide shelter
for the night.” Except in times of real
drought X7O and his cobbers could ex-
pect only the feed they could pick up.
As they worked only for a short time
and were then turned out for a three or
four months’ spell I fail to see what
those old prads had to be thankful for
—they certainly didn’t express sentiments
of gratitude when put to work again after
their vacation.
* * * *
“Edjudina”: Camped near a waterhole
out from Mt. Margaret (W.A.), Long
Jack left the old black billy and a white
enamelled mug standing on a rock. Close
to sundown half a dozen emus came
along. They were probably pretty dry,
but the queer objects on the rock just
couldn’t be passed by without examina-
tion and debate. So they stood around
nodding in their queer way. It made a
pretty picture, but unluckily we needed
meat. They were too interested to notice
Long Jack reach for his gun. He said
he’d often got them the same way by
tying a white rag to a stick stuck in the
ground.
*** " *
“Old Camp”: Mention of that brine
that used to be pumped from the mines
of Coolgardie and thereabouts (B.
4/8/’43) reminds that it was unexcelled
for the mixing of whitewash. Coolgardie,
Hannans, Boulder’in the early days were
whitewash towns. All that was required
for a dwelling was a few poles, or sawn
timber if the builder was both lucky and
flash, a bolt of hessian and a packet of
tacks. The edifice erected, one then pro-
cured a few bushels of lime, a pound or
two of tallow (candles did very nicely)
and mixed with the aforementioned
brine. The result was a whitewash that
couldn’t be rubbed off, and could be
guaranteed to withstand the weather for
20 years. Just what was in that brine
that caused it to combine so effectively
with the lime I could never discover. 1
have tried salt in several other forms,
including sea water, but could never mix
a whitewash that could even faintly corn-
pare with the goldfields stuff. And it
wasn’t that it rained only seldom around
Coolgardie, for when it did rain it came
down in bucketfuls.
** - *
“Betcha”: Don’t go much on the
chances of that raong (B. 18 /8 / ’43)
whose boss pins his faith to salt as a
cure for poison. It’s no easy job to get
the necessary amount of salt down the
neck of a half-dead tyke. If the poison
taken is strychnine—and usually it is—
the best cure I’ve found to date is a piece
of bluestone about the size of a large
pea. Round these East Gippsland parts,
where poisoned mongs are common, it is
customary to carry a lump of bluestone
always in one’s pocket during the poison
season. At the first sign of impending
collapse the animal is tapped on the loin.
If he stiffens, the piece of bluestone is
shoved well into the back of the dog’s
“You and your blasted mottoes!"
mouth, his head lilted a little, and his
throat gently knuckled until he gulps the
cure. All that’s necessary then is to chain
him away on his own, and after a period
of vomiting it’s ten chances to one he 11
be right as rain.
•r * * *
“Bo”: Fred and Jim were adjusting
the 800-gallon tank on the stand after
cleaning it out. Bill, always the last to
get up from lunch, was still on the broad
of his back dozing in the warm sunshine.
Jim, in trying to get the tank dead centre,
gave it too much of a shove. It slid to
the edge, balanced precariously for a few
seconds, then crashed to the ground, the
top of the tank missing Bill’s head by
about a foot. Bill slowly groped his way
to consciousness and, struggling up on to
his elbow, bent a reproving look on the
other two. “Can’t you cows have any
consideration for a man? I’ve told y’
often enough I like quietness after a
feed! ”
Jfc :|: =!= *
“Mat’s Mate”: “I’ll hold a spare bunk
in the room,” the big fellow wrote to
me, “and you can come straight off the
train and hop in. I’m in room 14, to
the left of the stairs.” I got off the train
at 2.15 a.m., made for the pub, found
room 14 and went in. It *was a
bright moonlight night and, not
wishing to disturb Mat, I undressed
in the moonlight that came through
the window and turned into the
spare bed. A bit restless, I tossed
round, and was just about to doze
off when I noticed the door open-
ing slowly. I reached down, silently
got hold of a boot and waited. The
door slid gently open and a head
appeared. Down came the boot;
there was a roar from the door and
a scream from the other bed, and
before I could do anything some-
body grabbed me, bedclothes and
all, and dragged me hastily into the
passage and into another room.
Then I was unravelled from the nap
to find Mat, ruefully holding his
head. “Shut up,” he whispered
fiercely, listening at the door. From
beyond it came excited sounds of
inquiry and a high, female voice declar-
ing that she’d “seen them. It was awful.
Two men fighting with each other in my
room.” There were comings and goings,
voices here and there, and presently
peace. “I was waitin’ f’r y’,” whispered
Mat. “This is 41, not 14, an’ I’m waitin’
t’ catch y’, but I fell asleep.” “You
beaut.,” I whispered back, “my togs and
bag is in that room.” He thought a
moment, then with a “You be ready t’
duck in an’ get ’em” crept forth to the
passage, let out a howl and jumped up
and down. Out of room 14 shot a gib-
bering female, into room 14 shot I, and
by the time the mob had gathered again
I was back with my things, sitting tight
and listening to Mat discussing the mys-
tery with the others. Mat had a headache
all next day.
“Zake”: Struck a chap training his
prad to stand still when the reins were
dropped on the ground. He was using
the old Boer method of horse education
by starting with a heavy weight attached
to the bridle, gradually lessening this to
nothing. Those favoring it claim that the
horse will eventually stop at the slightest
pull and will stand all day so long as the
reins are dangling on the ground. A
better method I saw in operation was a
peg, through which a hole had been bored
at the top, hammered into the ground.
A wire was looped through the peghole
and the bridle reins attached to it. After
a period of pulling, the horse woke up to
the futility of it. After that the grounded
reins came easy.
•}: ;Jc ❖ : 1 :
“Aratta”: “I’m at the Wangabeily
Show one time,” said Peter, “an’ there s
a big crowd bangin’ about the arena
watchin’ the various events, self included.
Suddenly the crush around where I’m
standin’ gets solider, a crowd of late arri-
vals makin’ their presence felt, an’ I find
meself gettin’ pushed forward inch be inch
till I can’t move. I’ve got me hands up
bangin’ on to me pipe an’ hat, an’ they’ve
gotter stay up, the pressure around is so
great. The mob behind seems f be gettin
thicker, judgin’ be the feel of thing/
gen’rally; an’ as I’m standin’ on a steep
bit of a slope the weight seems more on
top of a bloke than actcherly behind him.
Then I feel some cow fumblin’ at the side
pockets of me pants. I can’t get me
hands down t’ deal with him ; all I can
do is yell out that some thievin’ blank is
dippin’ inter me kick. Then from just
on top of me head comes a kid’s voice-
chirpy as y’ like he is—‘lt’s all right,
mister; he can’t get inter y’r side pants
pockets anyway, so y’re safe if y’r dough s
in them ; I’ve got me boots in ’em.’ Yes,
the young blighter was usin’ me as a
gran’stand.”
* * * *
“Bad Victorian”: Touching on verses
that have been written in praise of
stringybark (B. 4/8/’43), 1 recall these
lines by “Banjo,” published by The
Bully long ago among “Old Bush
Songs”:
Stringybark’ll light yer fire,
Greenhide’ll never fail yer,
Stringybark an’ greenhide
Are the mainstay of Australyer.
They were, too, in the days when the
great ox-drawn wool wagons brought
their cargoes hundreds of miles down to
the white-winged clipper ships waiting for
the loading.
% ❖ * *
“Uckle”: “Wang’s” Sam Briggs (B.
18 /8 / ’43) wasn’t the poultry farmer “W.”
claimed him to be. If he was, what
was he doing leaving eggs lying about
his pens at 11 p.m.? And even to help
speed up egg production in these austere
times, no hen will work overtime at night.
❖ #
“P.A.”: Whenever I read a new diet
list by just one more specialist, given in
ounces of this and that which we must
eat to survive, I think of a family of
timber-cutters who lived out on a spur of
the Blue Mountains (N.S.W.). Five hefty
lads and their dad cut and hauled logs
out of the deep gullies, grew their tucker,
did their own washing and cooked for
themselves. One day you’d hear “What’ll
it be today, boys?” and it’d be beans
—pounds of them—that went into the
dinner pot, and all set to on that for their
meal. Next day it might be persimmons,
plums or peaches with bread and butter,
then eggs and meat for the week-end-
hoggings of it, all washed down by strong
black tea. Two of those boys won chop-
ping heats at the Sydney Show. I know
the faddists will tell me they are excep-
tions. The fact remains that those strong
men were able to keep healthy on that
tucker.
SPRING COMES.
Now spring has come and winter’s o’er
And sunny is the weather,
By household fires we’ll crouch no more
Like prisonfolk together;
But free at length of roof and wall
Give soul and sense an airing,
The wide delights of earth and sky
With fellow-farers sharing.
We’ll listen to the thrush’s call,
And with the sunlight glancing
On sapling slim and gum-tree tall
By soft airs set adancing
—Adancing all and all agleam
On fronded hill and hollow —
Where'er the track leads, foot its length.
And where the wind goes, follow.
Spring bears a brush that brightens hope
And widens minds, made narrow
By winter’s grip, to spacious scope;
While in old bones the marrow
Grows rich beneath her melting touch,
And youth, a welcome voicing,
On paths made gay by light and song,
Goes on its way rejoicing.
Wherefore, set free from winds that freeze,
Grey skies and icy weather,
Let us rejoice like bird and breeze,
Old folk and young together:
For thus, though still a baleful cloud
Above our fair land hovers,
We’ll meet its gloom as best befits
A nation of sun-lovers.
N.S.W.
RODERIC QUINN.


Australian, Mercantile, Land & Finance
Company, Limited
(INCORPORATED IN ENGLAND IN 1863)
WOOL, FAT STOCK, STORE AND STUD STOCK,
PRODUCE AND PROPERTY SALESMEN
General Manager for Australia: R. SINCLAIR SMITH.
ADVANCES MADE ON GRAZING PROPERTIES, ON STOCK, AND ON
CONSIGNMENTS OF WOOL, SKINS, HIDES, TALLOW, ETC.
LICENSED AUCTIONEERS, STOCK AND STATION AGENTS.
SYDNEY OFFICE: A. M. MURDOCH, Manager.
ALSO AT MELBOURNE, BRISBANE, NEWCASTLE, WAGGA, HENTY, HAY, MOREE,
TOWNSVILLE, CHARLEVILLE, BUENOS AIRES, LONDON.
GENERAL AGENTS IN NEW SOUTH WALES FOR NORTHERN ASSURANCE CO.. LTD.
FOR MINERAL MIXTURES AND LICKS
FOR CATTLE
Sterilised
BONE FLOUR
TO REMEDY PHOSPHORUS DEFICIENCY
IN PASTURES AND FODDER.
All particulars from;—
DAVIS GELATINE, G.P.O. BOX 35835, SYDNEY ;
G.P.O. BOX 4058, MELBOURNE.
Learn WOOLCLASSING
Taught Rapidly by Mail
Become expert. Bad classing the curse of the industry,
and under appraisement better classing imperative.
Experts earn big money. More and better classers in
increasing demand. Women also urgently wanted in the
industry. Land girls should enroll. Taught rapidly by
mail, condensing the experience of 10 to 15 years’
travelling into a year or two. Wool from every corner of
the continent, Tasmania, and New Zealand to your own
table. The most practical, efficient and rapid course in
the world. Permanent big money in an industry that can t
stop or put off. Special immediate help and advice for
growers and their sons to get up the clip. Whatever
growers’ difficulties have been during the past year or two,
they are likely to increase and multiply in the near future.
Amateur handlings of your good wools will result in
serious loss in your income. Air-mail or Wire for
particulars.
Howard Correspondence College
Darling Buildings, 28-30 Franklin Street, Adelaide, S.A.
THE MAN ON
THE LAND
"DON'T WORRY. I'M SENDING IT TO
GRAZCOS."
Wool in the Post-war Era.
“R.N.”: Wool in the economy of
the United States is fairly small
potatoes. The U.S. farm income
from it in 1942 is estimated at
$157,235,000. At $3.29 to the £A that
represents £A48,000,000. In the same year
Australia’s income from wool was around
£65,000,000. For the five pre-war years
wool represented an average of 77.19 p.c.
of Australia’s net exports of pastoral pro-
ducts. It would have nothing like
the same importance to the United
States. Average price per pound to
U.S. growers was 40.1 cents (2s. 5d. Aus-
tralian) ; the Australian grower got the
British guaranteed price of 13.4d. The
U.S. sheep population in 1942 was esti-
mated at 49,784,000, compared with the
Australian 116,542,000 in 1939-40, since
somewhat increased. In 1938-39 Aus-
tralia produced 984,000,0001b. greasy,
easily leading the world, the U.S. being
second with 458,000,0001b.
The figures are worth studying as show-
ing that, whereas the United States,
though the world’s second producer of
wool, doesn’t depend on wool to any
great extent, wool is Australia’s main
primary industry and a very important
source of income. But U.S. wool interests
are taking a much greater interest in
wool’s future than is Australia. Indeed,
it looks as though Australia, content
with the British Government purchasing
scheme, is sitting down, pleased with the
thought that there’s something in the
bottle for the morning.
But wars and purchasing agreements
must end. When they do the wool in-
dustry will have to stand on its own feet.
Commercial fights can no longer be won
purely on the merits of the article ; pub-
licity can make or mar a product. The
American Wool Council is very much
aware of this and is missing no chances.
To the men in uniform (it says) wool is
as important as are their weapons and
ammunition At home their families are
comforted because Johnny or Jake or
Emanuel has such good warm uniforms,
such a heavy fine overcoat, and what a
blanket!.... Here then is being germinated
a potential market for wool which has
never been equalled. Ten million men
and women, wise in grim experience....
will return to civilian life... .with an almost
religious conviction as to the superior values
of wool.
The Council then proceeds to slate
woollen textile manufacturers on the score
of apathy. It says the wool interests are
allowing the synthetic fibre interests to
“destroy” the great post-war market for
wool.
Some of the mills having the best-known
names, producing nationally - accepted
woollen products, have closed their selling
offices, discharged their selling forces and
retired to the fastnesses of their spindles
and looms, because their entire production
is for the moment being taken by the Gov-
ernment .... And what are the producers of
synthetic fibres doing?... .They are for-
warding the idea that there is an acute
shortage of wool and that it is the patriotic
duty of citizens to wear substitutes for wool.
This is being said by interests which,
on the figures given, don’t amount to
much in the national economy. A
lesson to Australian wool interests, which,
apparently, are just as complaisant as
the American, though to Australia wool
is a financial buttress.
Forage for Dairy Cattle.
“Farmer Bill”: Old pig runs, night
paddocks or pastures are the best crop
sites. Smaller areas are more easily man-
aged. If fertility’s low, spread farmyard
“It's flirtin' with death, Sarge — that's fer the mob."
manure over the ground or feed hay or
silage on it before ploughing. Where
fertilisers are needed mix lewt. super,
and lewt. bonedust and sow at lewt. an
acre drilled, 2cwt. broadcast. For green
fodder crops, add four parts super, to
one part sulphate and work in at 2cwt.
an acre.
Skim-plough old grass paddocks first,
then plough to right depth. Follow up
with a disc and then harrows or rollers.
Free working soils need fewer harrow-
ings. Slovenly discing results in uneven
seedbeds and poor crops.
Grazing maize can be sown on the
coast from September to January at 251 b.
to 301 b. an acre; it’ll be ready from
December to May. Inland, sow from Sep-
tember to December at 101 b. to 141 b. an
acre, and cut from January to March.
Tableland sowings, December to January
at 561 b. an acre for February to April
grazing. Space all drills 3ft. apart.
Japanese millet should be broadcast
from September to February on the
N.S.W. North Coast at 121 b. to 161 b. an
acre, grazed at beginning of November;
on tablelands December to January, 81b.
to 101 b., grazing January to April; on
western slopes in September, 101 b.,
grazed November and cut December.
Sow sorghum on North Coast ■ De-
cember-January, 301 b. to 401 b., graze
March to June ; September to January on
South Coast, 151 b. to 201 b., graze De-
cember to June ; on western slopes Sep-
tember to December, 61b. to 81b., graze
January. Make all drills 2|ft. to 3ft.
apart. Sorghum should be allowed to
wilt before feeding. It’s toxic round
flowering time or following frosting.
Mangolds planted on tablelands Sep-
tember to November, 61b., mature from
March to May. Sown after grass they
give good crops. Sow in drills 3ft. apart,
and thin out to lOin. intervals. Turnips,
January to May, 41b., mature from May
to October. Feed to cows at least three
hours before milking to avoid taint.
Cowpeas, September to December, 81b.
to 101 b., ready December to June. Broad-
cast through early maize during the last
cultivation cowpeas form good grazing
after maize is harvested. Sow cattle
pumpkins, September or October, 11b.
to 21b. an acre.
Coastal Pastures.
“Pat Ater”: A good winter mixture is
Wimmera rye and subterranean clover—
the rye to be sown when clover has got
a good hold in the second year from
sowing. Only on the alluvial flats or
gentle slopes free from coastal gales
should the sub. clover be sown on a
prepared seedbed, and then a dressing of
at least of super, to the acre,
with i ton lime, is necessary, when 61b.
of seed can be used to advantage. Short-
age of super, means that at least one to
H tons of lime (as ground limestone or
slaked and powdered) is desirable.
Paddocks of three to five acres at most
should be the aim. Allow the clover to
get established and lightly graze when a
good stand is made. When the rye is
added a splendid balanced fodder field
can be built up. Later the addition of
some prairie grass ( Brgmus unioloides )
makes a succulent extra. Careful grazing
of these sub. clover paddocks is essential
if highest production is to be maintained.
That means subdivision into small areas,
allowing “on” and “off” grazing periods,
with proper rests for recovery. Renova-
tion annually with topdressing is neces-
sary in early years.
On the hills where native grasses per-
sist, cultivation with disc or rigid tyne
renovator and sowing of 31b. to 61b. of
sub. clover seed to the acre with super,
dressing will do. That will give good
grazing in its first year.
White clover has established itself
along coastal and near-coastal strips of
good rainfall, and in good spring seasons
romps among paspalum and native
grasses so profusely that the mixture can
be cut for excellent silage—but is seldom
so used. That growth should be an in-
dication to sow more of it and add lime
and/or super.
Clovers are useful because of their
lime and phosphate content as fodder,
supplying those great needs of diet so
often lacking in coastal areas. Their
presence also helps in growth and bulk
of other grasses such as Phalaris tuberosa,
which is now definitely proven in coastal
routine for winter fodder and silage.
Add a lucerne patch for lucerne hay
—if nothing else. For drought or supple-
mentary feeding lucerne hay or chaff has
an outstanding advantage over cereal
hays and a higher protein content. It is
indispensable. Then there can be sum-
mer fodder crops added in cultivation
areas. Jap millet, hardy and responsive
after grazing, and saccharine as an
alternative.
These are the alternatives to the ever-
present paspalum, which does so much to
rob soils. Perennial rye and red clover
can often be the natural substitute.
Hints for the Farm.
“Jersey”: I have a small paddock full
of milk thistles. I’m guarding it care-
fully. It will be in full bloom late in
September, and that’s the time when
cattle are having a job to shed their
winter coats. They’re irritable and off
their milk. Those thistles will fill them
with succulent feed, loosen their bowels
without purging them, and in next to no
time the cows will be on full production
again.
“B.”: For cracked hooves, try shoeing
in front with a plain high slipper that’s
fairly light. Ease the bottom of the wall
of the hoof opposite the crack, so that it
won’t touch the shoe. Applications of
mutton fat and Stockholm tar will pre-
vent hoofs becoming dry and shelly. Few
cracks disappear under 12 months.
“Canbelego”: Sows on skim-milk and
pasture don’t generally need mineral
supplements. If they’re not getting skim-
milk give them a mixture of two parts by
weight of steamed bonemeal, two parts
ground limestone and one part common
salt.
“M.”: Rye corn controls sand drift in
the S.A. and Victorian Mallee. Hardy,
with tall, tough straw, it is useful as feed,
for thatching and filling horse-collars,
etc. It will grow on wind-blown sand-
hills and loose drifts where oats and
wheat would die. The grain is small and
can be sown at a lower rate than wheat.
For drift, use 351 b. to the acre, but a
heavier sowing is needed for grazing. For
control of drift, rye corn should be sown
as early as possible, but a midwinter
sowing would help retard sand movement
during spring windstorms.


\ioU7
i\^e
VoV
aw
et^
00
v\' c
111
iu e
aw
aoi
l\vet
ee
an
M*
\es»
Ha-v?
S**y
ck at ?
The FISK RADIOLA
AUSTRALIA’S FINEST BROADCAST RECEIVER
When Victory is ours, the Fisk
Radiola, will again be available
throughout Australia. • . Until
then, your local Radiola Dis-
tributor will gladly service your
present Radiola,
AMALGAMATED WIRELESS (A sia) Ltd.
Australia’s National Wireless Organisation
BUY £lO NATIONAL SAVINGS BONDS & WAR SAVINGS CERTIFICATES
CORROSION
An eminent British metallurgist estimated that every year
in the world some 30 million tons of steel became unusable
by corrosion, that is by rust. This estimate is an impressive
reminder that the creative works of builders and engineers
arc, nevertheless, wasting assets. Steel and concrete may
replace wood and brick, but for all their strength they also
are not immune from decay. This tremendous spoilage of
human effort has long been the subject of intensive scientific
research, and if was early realised that one means of
minimising these losses was by protecting the exposed
surfaces. At one time, the application of paint was the
principal means of preserving surfaces, not only steel but
also wood and other materials; it has since been found that
pre-treatment gives a more tenacious anchorage of the pro-
tective paint covering, which itself in its turn has been the
subject of rapid and phenomenal development. Until
recent years, paints were simple materials made from
linseed oil and pigments such as white lead. To-day,
the production of synthetic coverings is a highly scientific and
specialised part of the Australian chemical industry, and many
types of finishes arc now manufactured. Not only have
Australian chemists applied themselves to the development
of paints, but fungicides and insecticides have been evolved
to treat plywood and other building materials against the
inroads of fungi, borer, termites and such enemies of mankind.
These developments have been made possible by the
happy collaboration between paint and chemical specialists
in Australia and their associates overseas. We must not
lose sight of the basic importance of these associations, so
that when peace comes again the tempo of their work will be
sustained and the results will be diverted to the necessities and
amenities which we cannot now have but look forward to
enjoy in the future,
IMPERIAL CHEMICAL INDUSTRIES
OF AUSTRALIA & NEW ZEALAND LTD.
1C1.6.16
UNCABLED ADDITIONS
Much To Do Yet.
[Contrasting strangely with recent rosy
optimism in Australia, this N.Y. “Times
comment is typical of the more sober views
expressed in America.]
Today it is the United Nations that
are on the offensive and the Axis Powers
that are on the defensive.
At the same time it must be kept in
mind that the United Nations have only
recently snatched the offensive from the
Axis, which held it for four summer cam-
paigns in Europe, and, counting China,
even for six fighting years in the Far East,
And the seizure of the offensive does
not by itself mean victory. Despite all
her previous losses and the devastating
air raids, Germany’s strength is still such
that it will take all the Allies can muster
to overcome it. Japan is presumably still
growing stronger by exploitation of her
conquests.
The turning of the tide simply means
that after averting their own defeat the
United Nations are now confronted with
the task of defeating the Axis Powers.
The only possible course of safety for us
is to proceed on the assumption that this
second task will be even greater and cost-
lier than the first.
Jungle Fighting.
(From a report by a New York "Times” war
correspondent.)
Until recently the Japanese have
strutted as acknowledged masters of
jungle war. Our best chance to beat them
there seemed to be to overwhelm them
with our superior production, but in the
New Georgia fighting our troops had to
meet them on their own terms, at their
own game, without the support of pro-
duction superiority.
The original plan of attack was bor-
rowed from the American Indian wars.
The troops were to be landed at night,
make short overland marches and over-
whelm the Japanese by surprise or at
least to pen them on a narrow cape until
superior fire-power could be brought up.
Surprise was the cornerstone of this plan.
But all elements of surprise were
smothered by fog and drowned by rain.
The landings were made at dawn. The
beach was not as advertised ; the land-
ing craft could not reach it and most
troops stepped into water that reached
to their necks and beyond. Men grappled
with cases of ammunition in water
churned and flung high by breakers that
dropped on the men. Not a single man
was lost in the landing, although a few
bones were broken. The men formed
quickly into columns and struck off along
the jungle trails.
The jungle here is thicker even than
that on Guadalcanal. A gloomy, green
light hangs down in the parasitic strangled
trees. Even the rain, which fell end-
lessly day and night, seemed stained green.
The first Japanese bivouac area was
passed early. It was silent. It was appar-
ent that there would be no surprise, that
the Japanese abandoned their camp sites
to take up positions from which they
could attack us.
We had our first contact with the
enemy a little before 3 p.m. Rifles
cracked out of treetops from all sides,
while rear columns were machine-gunned
from emplacements dug in the ground.
Infiltrations by both sides followed, and
every company was on its own, not a
company commander having contact with
another.
It was like a fight under water, with
all the sounds muffled by the damp air,
rotting trees and squashy earth. In the
green-colored light objects were first
dimmed; and then bloated.
Bullets whistled wetly through the air
or buried themselves with hardly a sound
in the porridge-like earth, or in wood so
rotten that men, clawing at it to pull
themselves along, found it coming away
in their hands like fungus. Explosions
made plopping noises as the rain fell,
sometimes dripping, sometimes pelting,
with whispery sounds of water splashing
into water. The only visible movement
of animal life was the red-wattled, un-
wieldy carrion birds that came cautiously
to the scene and fluttered away nervously
from the bursts of gunfire, but remained
within sight of what they could claim as
their harvest.
Our columns forced their way to a
small river where the Japanese were sup-
posed to be on the left bank. Instead,
they were waiting on the right bank with
the patience of wild animals. Our men
waded the river, each man supplying his
own cover, shooting his weapon all
around himself. But the Japanese
counter-attacked in force and the fight
swirled back and forth for a long time.
As night began to settle in the jungle,
our men retreated from the river and
dug in for the night. Our men were in-
structed to be in their foxholes and not
to move from them or to shoot at any
time. “Wait until a Jap crawls into your
foxhole and then get him there with your
knife or bayonet,” was the order.
In the darkness the jungle resumed its
own way of life. Many animals crawled
around, the Japanese clicked their rifle
bolts many limes and made crawling
sounds of their own to try to get our men
to fire and reveal their positions, but not
a single man lost his nerve and fired.
About 2 a.m. there was prolonged
firing from the seaside jungle. The
Japanese had tried an outflanking move-
ment with landing barges, a manoeuvre
made familiar by the Malayan campaign.
Two barges, filled with at least 100
Japanese, came on to the beach, where a
company of our infantry was stationed.
The Japanese were killed by rifles,
machine guns and grenades.
Only six Japanese got to the beach.
They were killed there.
About an hour later two more barges
came in at the same point, saw the wreck-
age and withdrew hastily. At about 6
a.m. a single Japanese excavated himself
from under the mass of his dead mates
and started to climb out of the boat. He
was killed instantly.
At dawn it was still raining. The men
in the jungle crawled out of their fox-
holes, waddled toward one another
through the dim, sodden air and formed
a column to resume the battle.
Roads to Berlin.
(Condensed from "United States News.")
The present lures for invasion of Italy
are not as a route to Germany. One
main attraction is the chance to force
Hitler to fight where his supply lines are
long and where the people are hostile.
Also it would bring Hitler’s safest cities
within good range of the Allies’ bombers.
Because of the formidable barrier of
the Alps, the Allies may follow the ex-
ample of history and look elsewhere for
a path for land invasion.
The route through the Balkans, historic
path into Central Europe, may be chosen.
It was the route of the Mohammedan
conquest of the sixth to the eighth cen-
tury ; 800 years later, the Ottomans’
invasion reached up the Danube to
Vienna. In the 1914-18 war, the British
tried to force the Dardanelles in order to
get into the Black Sea and the Danube
Valley. Today, a move at the Dar-
danelles won’t be made because Turkey
is Britain’s non-belligerent ally.
But a new action may be brewing to
help the Greeks and, also, to join forces
with the Yugoslav army that is fighting
in Serbia under Mihailovich. In 1914-18,
the British, landing at Salonika, fought
their way up the Vardar River and pre-
cipitated the collapse of Bulgaria and
Austria that signalled the defeat of Ger-
many. Big Allied forces are available
for such a thrust now.
A third southern route is through
Spain. But while Spain continues unin-
vaded by the Germans the Allies will
seek other routes into Europe.
The remaining routes available are to
the north.
The British and American forces in
England have a choice between a flanking
movement and a frontal attack. The pres-
ent night-and-day bombing offensive is
regarded as the first round of an invasion
that ultimately will put a land army in
Northern Europe.
A flanking movement would push into
Norway or Finland, while a frontal attack
w r ould be aimed across the English Chan-
nel.
There is another historic route of in-
vasion—the route from Sweden.
About 300 years ago, the Swedes under
Gustavus Adolphus landed an army in
Germany at Stettin on the Baltic. That
army forced its way south to Berlin, to
Munich and beyond Cologne. Today,


Ahe shape of things to come is being
formed to-day! In the sky ... on sea and land .. .
and in the quickening beat of war production, the
tempo of Victory is already ringing in Axis ears.
But, without money, the war effort must come to a
stop machines cannot work; nor ships sail; nor
planes fly. Lend your money and lend it now!
Invest in National Savings Bonds and War Savings
Certificates, Enlist your money in Active Service,
This advertisement is inserted by the
D
yro*
proprietors of Top Dog Men’s Wear
Breks Trousers
Sovereign Hats
THE
SOUTH BRITISH
INSURANCE COMPANY
LIMITED.
INCORPORATED IN NEW ZEALAND.
Established 1872.
Assets Exceed £5,000,000.
FIRE... MARINE...
ACCIDENT
WORKERS’ COMPENSATION
Sydney Branch:
Cnr. Hunter & O’Connell Sts.
F. W. WALTON, Manager.
Sweden maintains a troubled peace with
Germany, but if the two nations should
go to war all of the cities of Northern
Germany would be in danger of attack
from Swedish bases.
Letter from Detroit.
(Extracts from a letter written by Detroit clergy-
men after the serious race riots there a month
or two back.)
The riots here are fevers of a city sick
with hate.
How did Detroit get to be the hate-
capital of the world? Simply because it
is the demonstration city in class warfare.
Here it was that systematic and effec-
tive attempts were made to get everybody
to hating the capitalists. Amusingly
enough, it is necessary now that we make
everybody capitalists —by getting them to
buy war bonds —in order to win the world
war. Here it was that we were told that
all the trouble was with nasty old Wall-
street. The employer was next the bogey
man, plotting the ruin of the workers.
The street corners were filled with
shouters damning “the bosses.” The em-
ployers, confused and badly led, sulked
on overstuffed club chairs and damned
Roosevelt.
And so hate became our civic mood.
The intolerance, which is simply hate in
action, spread. Two tense situations de-
veloped, the one between Jew and Gentile,
the other between white and negro.
We have had worse troubles here in
Detroit. But they were clashes between
economic classes and not between color
classes. Clashes between economic classes
are accepted as “democracy in action.”
People get killed, stores are looted, neigh-
borhood tensions are aggravated, but this
is “winning social gains.”
Nor should the worker be blamed for
that any more than the man whose body
is full of strep germs should be blamed
for running a fever. It all depends on
whether you are going to look at hate
and intolerance as a disease, no matter
where it happens, or whether you are
going to call hate and intolerance a demo-
cratic process when it gets going between
people who are on opposite sides of the
time-clock and call it a riot when they
are on opposite sides of the color line.
The time will come when we will see
that hate is a disease, and we will treat
the hawker of hate as we treat the peddler
of diseased meats.
Park on a Cloud.
(Condensed from an article by Gurney
Williams in “Collier's.”)
Sikorsky’s helicopter has no wings ; it
needs neither runway nor forward
rush to get into the air, and it can land
in any 20ft. by 20ft. area, whether it’s the
roof of a skyscraper or the bottom of a
quarry. Equipped with rubber pontoons
it can land in mud or snow or on ice or
water. Incidentally, it’s more manoeu-
vrable on water than a boat. Rising
straight up, it settles to the ground so
gently that a dozen eggs, suspended in a
net below the fuselage, go back into the
refrigerator without a crack in them.
The egg trick is no figure of speech.
It is one of the many unusual stunts
Sikorsky (who holds helicopter private-
flying license No. 1) and engineering test-
pilot Charles L. Morris (who holds heli-
copter commercial flying license No. 1)
do to demonstrate the controllability of
the wingless wonder.
Most of the tricks centre around a
short bowsprit that sticks out horizon-
tally from the nose of the ship. If you
stand stockstill on the ground with one
arm rigidly upraised, the pilot will bring
the helicopter down, nuzzle the palm of
your hand with the tip of the spar and
back away from you without having
touched the earth. Equally spectacular
proof of the VS-300’s steadiness is the
ring trick, wherein the ship’s bowsprit
spears and lifts from a pole a 3in. ring,
then sidles over to a ground man to have
it removed. Sikorsky admits you might
be able to pick apples or cherries out of
your orchard while loafing in the air
just above the treetops, but he hasn’t
tried it yet.
What all this means to the war effort,
in which the Sikorsky plant is busily
engaged, is that here is a type of airship
for which many war-time uses have been
projected. There is talk of using them
to combat submarines from the decks of
convoy ships. By means of a rope ladder
they could land supplies at, or rescue
soldiers from, otherwise inaccessible spots.
In liaison work they would be difficult
for enemy ’planes to find ; and at night,
with exhausts muffled and lacking pro-
peller noise, they could operate almost
silently.
Dragnet Digest.
( Condensed from various acknowledged sources.)
The British Government has clearly ex-
pressed the resolve that the Germans shall not
only be disarmed, but shall remain disarmed
after the war. This resolve is certainly genuine.
But amongst the Continental Allies there is
doubt. the rise of pacifism in England after
the last war, the popularity of crazy projects
like the ‘ Peace Ballot,” the widespread sup-
port which bogus remedies like “Federal Union”
drew from influential persons and such as might
have been supposed to have known better,
the perceptible deterioration in the quality of
English political thinking, the neglect of
national and imperial defence-all these things,
which helped so much to bring on the Second
World War, have bitten deep into the European
consciousness. They are not easily forgotten.
For years England relied more on the League
of Nations than upon herself—and that is why
Europe ceased to rely on her —London ‘‘Nine-
teenth Century.’ 1 ’
“The crafty calculations of the leaders in
Tokyo are to the effect that after the United
Nations have finally brought Hitler to uncon-
ditional surrender the American people and
their allies will be so war-weary that they will
insist upon a compromise peace in the Far
East—a compromise leaving Japan in possession
of at least half of her present gains. An incon-
clusive peace of this kind would actually be a
victory for Japan. She would prepare and
wait for a new opportunity and attack us again
at some period when, in slack times of peace,
we seemed to have lost most of our present
allies. Anything short of an all-out victory in
this war will bring another upon us—probably
within less than 20 years. If we permit the
Japanese to keep half of what they have won,
if we permit them to remain the rulers of part
of East Asia and to brutalise 200,000,000 sub-
ject human beings, they will contrive to use the
resources of that area, and that brutalised man-
power, in a war of revenge against us. There
will be no security for the Four Freedoms until
the Jack-the-Rippers among nations are dis-
armed and punished.”— Hallett Abend, U.S.
correspondent who spent many years in Japan
and China.
* * * *
The attitude of the Soviet Government to-
wards the Red Army Guards units strongly
indicates a desire to cultivate what could con-
ceivably be called a military aristocracy. In
the ranks of the Guards themselves a spirit
of superiority prevails. An elite military class
is clearly developing, with the distinction be-
tween soldier and officer constantly increasing.
Gradually the Red Array is maturing and draw-
ing away from its earliest concept as an amor-
phous organisation of workers and peasants
and developing along tight new lines resembling
not only the traditional armies of Czarist days,
but those of the capitalistic Western world.—
N.Y. “Times” Moscow correspondent C. L.
Sulzberger.
* * * *
The victories of the past, six months have
undoubtedly changed the complexion of the
war. There is no room, however, for com-
placency or slackness. We defeated only 15
Axis divisions in Tunisia; there are some 180
German divisions in Russia alone. The enemy
is still tough, hard and relentless, and he un-
doubtedly will be prepared to take advantage of
our mistakes. We are still making mistakes.
They still hamper us in the proper conduct of
the war almost as much as the action of the
enemy.— Hanson W. Baldwin; American
“Foreign Affairs.”
•}* *i*
The defence of the so-called “small nations”
is not only a matter of principle; it is, for Eng-
land, a practical necessity. All her vital interests
depend upon the continued independence of
“small nations.” The course taken by Russian
foreign policy today must, if it continues, lead
to a conflict which will enable Germany to win
the peace after having lost the war. If England
upholds her principles and resolutely meets every
menace, however distant, to her vital interests,
she will perpetuate her own security—and give
security to Russia. On that basis collaboration
with Russia is possible—and only on that basis.
And on that basis the Polish-Russian conflict
can be brought to an end. — London “Nine-
teenth Century.”
% % % %
Lagos (Portugal) is a place where nothing
ever happens, but this week we have broken
the rule, for everybody has been wildly excited
by the presence of five British airmen; they
had made a forced landing some few miles
away. They delighted all with their clean, fresh
youth and their bright, intelligent look, and
they were really very nice boys. Word had
gone round that they were coming, and though
it was early morning, quite a crowd had gath-
ered to see them. They were placed in our
only hotel. When, soon after, I took them for
a swim, it was like a triumphal procession.
They were followed by an admiring crowd, all
the women of Lagos seemed to have got to the
windows and balconies, men shouted greetings,
and one man rushed into the road, gave one
of them a big handshake, and said proudly
“Glad to meet you; won’t you sit down?”
He had evidently heard the phrase often in the
cinema. After lunch we went to the cafe for
coffee and brandy. Every table was full;
there was not even standing room; and there
was a mob at the door. A few minutes after
we were seated, a lad came in with a bottle of
port and a card, saying that it was to drink
to the victory of the Allies. A quarter of an
hour later came five bottles of port (one for
each of them) with similar wishes. When 1
went to pay I was told that the bill had been
paid by a priest from a neighboring town.
This sort of thing went on all the time. — Letter
in London “Times.”


The Front Line of
FIRE
DEFENCE
To what far-reaching extent "Grinnell”
Automatic Sprinkler Systems have pro-
tected England’s public services, vital
war industries and countless lives over
nearly four years of bombing can never
be measured in mere words or grandiose
phrases. Even when cold facts and
figures are eventually made available
they will not encompass anywhere near
"all” that "Grinnell” has done.
"Grinnell” never quits . . .
"Grinnell” Automatic Sprinklers may
be likened to ever-vigilant sentries on
duty twenty-four hours every day of the
year . . . silently watching and waiting,
and hardly discernible.
"Grinnell" strikes instantly ...
"Grinnell” automatically strikes
instantly at the very heart of the fire . . .
goes into action amidst heat and smoke,
at close quarters and under conditions no
human could live. The chances of a
fire escaping from the control of a
"Grinnell” Sprinkler Head are almost
negligible.
The "Grinnell” record "saves” over
the years in Australia and New Zealand
are due to far more than an efficient
Sprinkler System. Behind each installa-
tion is the Wormald service ... a service
that carries with it the accumulated
knowledge of more than half a century’s
experience in fire protection. It is a
guarantee that "Grinnell” is always on
duty.
"GRINNELL"
Automatic Sprinkler Systems
•
WORMALD BROS. PTY. LTD.
(Incorp. in N.S.W.)
Fire Protection Engineers Since 1889-
Branches throughout Australia and New Zealand.
Naturally, Defence Works and key industries have
first priority on our complete range of Fire Pro-
tection equipment but we are glad to undertake
essential Fire Protection work of lower priority
as conditions permit.
m
mm
V" |
■ ■
?-V : '
■
B
H
■
■
U
m
i' ! I
■
L
£
■
m
m
m g
H
SB
-
MBS
mm
m m
■' ; /r
m
: r
# A,>
H
.
■i
mm
■n|
m
m
m
H
M
il
yJS
r j
i m
f d
m ,
11 n i
i»
i
MM
i
■
/i
n
n
»
11
m
m
■
i
::
H
HW
llli
& i
i
i
mi
Ml


HOW Will MY ESTATE
BE ADMINISTERED?
This is a problem which every thinking man
or woman must face. By appointing Ihe
Trustees, Executors and Agency Company
Limited you obtain the benefit of an impar-
tial Executor with over 65 years specialised
experience in the administration of estates,
and the assurance that the interests of your
legatees will be safeguarded until all trusts
are completed.
No individual Executor can offer such per-
manence, security or efficiency. Charges are
fixed and moderate. Consult your Solicitor
or write or call for Free Booklet detailing
the advantages of the Company’s service.
THE TRUSTEES EXECUTORS
AND AGENCY COMPANY LTD.
Incorporated in Victoria in 1878.
1 BLIGH ST., SYDNEY, and at 401 COLLINS ST.,
MELBOURNE.
Capital (paid and uncalled) and Reserves, £960,645.
BOARD OF DIRECTORS:
Sir Alexander Stewart (Chairman); D. Stuart Murray: Sir Claude
Reading, K.C.M.G.; Sir Lennon Raws, C.B.E.j G. S. Colman, C.8.E.;
Sir Alan Newton.
NEW SOUTH WALES DIRECTORS:
Sir Claude Reading, K.C.M.G. (Chairman) ; W. D. Stewart; ft. T. Hilder.
N.S.W. Manager: J. W. Russell French.
General Manager: W. Sydney Jones. Manager: K. M. Hughes.
YOU WILL NEVER BE YOUNGER
Premiums will never be lower
Take out an “A.C.A.” Policy. ?
• Could your dependants carry on without your salary in the event o/ )’*
Can you look forward with certainty to a nest-egg in your old age. l]
is “No,” just consider how a whole-life or endowment policy will protect you
family, and for what little half-yearly cost! _ . ,
• In its tenth year the Australasian Catholic Assurance Co., Lt
menced paying Bonuses out of Profits, and has continued to do so since
offices in the World can beat that performance.
com-
Few
Australasian Catholic Assurance
COMPANY, LTD.
Head Office: A.C.A. Building, 66 King Street, Sydney.
E. J. Mooney. Managing Director. P. J. Ryan, Secretary.
Branch Offices:
Victoria: A.C.A. Building, 118-126 Queen Street, Melbourne.
Queensland: A.C.A. Building, 270 Queen S'treet, Brisbane.
South Australia: Bank op N. S. Wales Chambers, 12 King William
Western Australia: Warwick House, St. George's Terrace, Perth.
District Offices and Agencies Throwghcmt the States.
Street, Adelaide.
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
Queensland National Bank
Net To
June, Profit. Dividends. Reserves. Reserves.
£ £, £> £
1933.. 75,540 4 p.c. = 70,000 ) 3 040 881,684
Written off premises, £2,500 )
1934.. 69,911 4 p.c. = 70,000 ) _ 379095
Written off premises, £2,500 )
1935.. 72,192 4 p.c. = 70,000 ) _ 070737
Written off premises, £2500 )
1936.. 73,648 4 p.c. = 70,000 ) 1140 879,935
Written off premises, £2500 ) ’
1937.. 77,320 4) p.c. = 74,375 ) 445 880 ,380
Written off premises, £2500 j
1938.. 81,671 ii p.c. = 78,750 ) 421 880 ,801
Written off premises, £2500 j
1939.. 84,692 4f p.c. = 80,037 ) 75g 881 536
Written off premises, £3OOO j
1940.. 91,031 5 p.c. = 87,500 7 SSI 8 g 2 ,087
Written off premises, £3OOO )
1941.. 90,835 5 p.c. = 87,500 ) 335 gg 2 ,422
Written off premises, £3OOO )
1942. . 90,674 5 p.c. “ 87,500 ) 17,1 sag egg
Written off premises, £3OOO ) 882,590
1943.. 77,503 4ip.c. = 74,375 ) „ „„„
Written off premises, £3OOO ) 88 ‘ 2> ' 24
Although heavy war expenditure in
Australia and the claims on local re-
sources which followed use of the country
as an Allied base in the s.-w. Pacific cam-
paign livened trade activity in essential
war requirements, earnings of the Q.N.
Bank —about 90 p.c. of its business is
done in its home State —got no benefit
from the increased volume of money in
circulation. That was because money,
the bank’s chief stock-in-trade, has been
put in a strait-jacket; and it is likely
to remain there for the duration and for
some time thereafter.
During the 12 months covered by the
latest accounts, seasonal conditions were
satisfactory; and a 15 p.c. lift in the
British contract price for the staple re-
sulted in a much bigger wool cheque.
Also, the State is heavily stocked with
sheep and cattle, fetching high prices.
But diversion of beef to the canneries
has reduced the quantity available for
ordinary consumption; hence meat
rationing is to be introduced and an
appeal to eat more mutton has been
made. Man-power and transport diffi-
culties have created .serious problems,
especially in the sugar and dairying indus-
tries, in which output has shrunk and re-
quests have been made for Government
subsidies to cover the rise in costs.
The banking situation is dominated by
the Government’s war finance policy, and
the controlled and rationed type of war
economy has resulted in substantial
changes in the nature of bank assets. As
war expenditure, financed largely by cen-
tral bank credit, increased, the volume of
currency swelled, too. At the same time
the quantity of goods available for civi-
lian consumption has been restricted by
rationing, wages have continued to rise
with the cost-of-living index, and taxa-
tion and loans have absorbed only part
of the excess spending power that re-
mained in the hands of the public. One
result has been an accumulation of funds
in the nature of bank deposits. Labor,
which has just had a sweeping victory at
the polls, is opposed to any substantial
increase in taxation, especially in the
lower-income groups. So, unless much
greater sums can be raised by voluntary
subscription, compulsory loans will have
to be introduced if the accumulation of
liquid resources in the hands of the public
is to be checked under existing conditions.
Herein lies the danger of delayed-action
inflation ; a peg upon which the case for
retention of a wide range of economic
controls after the war can be hung.
Present fiscal policy , is, therefore, likely
to have important repercussions in the
future, as the chairman of the Common-
wealth Bank recently pointed out.
Surplus investible funds of the trading
banks—the amount by which their assets
in Australia increased since the outbreak
of war—have been frozen. This surplus
has to he deposited with the Common-
wealth Bank at a very low rate of in-
terest; less than 1 p.c. at the moment.
Also the trading banks are not allowed
to subscribe to war loans, and their lend-
ing business has been restricted as re-
sources have been diverted to war uses.
The next table shows changes that have
taken place in the Q.N. Bank’s financial
structure:
1939. 1941. 1942. 1943.
£ £ £ £
Paid
capital. .1,750,000 1,750,000 1,750,000 1,750,000
Interminable
stock ..2,690,133 2,606,298 3,005,496 2,982,627
Hills, etc. 384,204 425,115 | fi,oo 179 19 s>6s 375
Deposits 9,237,906 9,462,091 J 10 .<> 28 > 172 13,865,375
Liquid
assets ..4,151,337 4,598,144 6,043,638 9,858,737
Advances! 0,2 60,491 10,051,672 9,036.486 8,977,472
Premises 673,593 578,862 689,188 588,934
Other assets 40,703 94,95.8
Last term an expansion of £3,831,510 in
deposits was accompanied by a growth
of £3,815,099 in low-interest-bearing
liquids and a contraction of £30,014 in
advances. When the books closed the
co.’s special war-time deposit with the
central bank amounted to £3,306,000, ad-
vances were only 64.9 p.c. of deposits,
while liquids were equal to 71 p.c. of the
liabilities to the public—corresponding
ratios for 1939 were 111 p.c. and 43.1
p.c. respectively. Also, the bank was
holding only 495. sd. of the public’s
money for every pound of its own, in-
cluding the interminable stock, down
£22,869 during the year. A strong posi-
tion, but it spells low earning power.
The year’s gross earnings (£399,246)
were £29,619 lighter. Exes. (£270,365)
were pulled back £15,983, partly on ac-
count of closure of 10 branches and partly
on account of substitution of female for
male labor made necessary by man-power
call-ups for defence purposes. The tax
bill (£51,378) was only £465 less. So the
net result was £13,171 lighter at £77,503,
equal to 4.4 p.c. on capital, or a mere
2.9 p.c. on shareholders’ funds (capital
and reserves combined). The div. was
dropped from 5 p.c. to 4} p.c. The old
interminable deposit stock —a reminder
of the 1890’s—which is costing about 3f
p.c., is more of a hindrance than a help
these days.
Dominion Breweries, Ltd. (M.L.)
, —Dividends— x To Re-
Mar., Loss. Pref. and Ord. serves. Deficit.
£ £ £ £
Goodwill disclosed, £19,100 .. .. 13,664
1933.. 14,002 Nil 27,666
Profit.
1934.. 2,436 Nil 2,436 25,230
1935.. 7,947 Nil 7,947 17,283
1936.. 15,224 6i p.c. = 5,819 9,405 7,878
Reserves.
Share premiums, £17,235 .. ■■ 9,857
1937.. 22,039 9 p.c. = 12,298 9,741 19,098
Share premiums, £21,739 .. •• 40,837
1938.. 41,258 10 p.c. = 22,453 18,805 59,642
Share premiums, £12,500 . . . . 72,142
3939.. 65,477 12 p.c. = 32,600 32,877 105,019
Share premiums, £6,250 .. 111,269
1940.. 56,660 12 p.c. = 37,441 19,219 130,488
Loss sale Consols, £11,560.. .. 118,928
1941.. 36,118 8J p.c. = 29,750 6,368 125,296
1942.. 25,972 7 „ „ 24,500 1,472 126,768
1943.. 38,479 8 „ „ 28,000’ 10,479 137,247
The Shivery Isles are short of malt, and,
Commonwealth supplies being none too
plentiful, SOS appeals to Australia’s malt-
ing authorities have fallen on deaf ears.
Dominion Breweries is one to have been
caught short, and just how the current
term will turn out as a result remains to
be seen. Ironically, on the demand side
full employment, assured markets for pri-
mary produce and presence of Allied ser-
vice men have swollen Maoriland’s col-
lective thirst to unprecedented dimensions.
Unlike Australia, the Dominion’s Labor
Administration has taken no steps to
shackle consumption, either, relying on a
cut in the alcoholic content of the brew
to discourage personal excesses.
Buying out the Waitemata brewery,
near Auckland, in 1930, this 13-year-o!d’s
management has done a good job. After
a precarious beginning in the unfavorable
economic circumstances of the time, ele-
vation to brewing and investment promi-
nence came with a rush after 1935;
since, shareholders have put up £329,517
in share and premium capital and out-
siders another £564,297 in a spirited
policy of plant extension and hotel pur-
chase which multiplied profits eight times
in half that number of years. Of late,
however, M.L. brewers haven’t been so
successful as their Australian counterparts
in passing on war-time lifts in excise,
pubs have become less-remunerative
secondary profit-earners and, with fierce
direct taxation and a continued growth in
costs partly reflecting social experiments,
profits have deflated in the manner
shown, along with those of most sections
of M.L. trade and industry.
In the three accounting periods to
March, 1942, the quantity of ale and stout
brewed in Maoriland was respectively
17,810,215, 19,120,241 and 19,831,318
gallons. Figures for the latest term aren’t
yet available, but expansion of £90,390
to £363,405 is recorded in Dominion
Breweries’ gross profit from trading.
However, the “Wild Cat” suspects that the
apparent improvement was mostly in
respect of a change in the book treat-
ment of beer duty, for “Land, Income,
Social, National Security and Sales Taxes,
£167,236,” are £82,808 higher than the ’42
tax figure, while trading exes. (£157,690)
are £4925 lower. Sum total of these
movements was an expansion of £12,507
in net earnings, leaving them at 10.9 p.c.
on capital, against 7.4, 10.3, 18.1 and 24.1
p.c. back to the different circumstances
of 1938-39. A point was added to the div.,
making it 8 p.c., the prefs. participating.
To tiesaip trade, just on three-quarters
of a million has been added to the book
value of freeholds and plant since 1936,
and that after allowances for wear and
tear and obsolescence regularly described
as “adequate” without further elabora-
tion :
1936. 1938. 1942. 1943.
Paid capital. . £108,582 £248,344 £350,000 £350,000
Sundry creditors 18,084 46,533 157,288* 294,008
Overdraft . . 59,425 110,584 59,185
Mortgages .. —239,442 267,862 241,083
Land and
buildings . . 10,177 438,277 608,373 612,305
Plant, e4c. . . 47,487 135.260 199,435 188,098
Leaseholds, etc. 8,264 22,417 10,746 71.893
Stock.. .. 33,106 56,732 117,421 121,214
S'undry debtors 15,706 48,422 74,304 81,459
Cash, etc. . . 11,866 12,723 20,554
including provision for taxation.
Last term’s expansion in the mixed lease-
holds, etc., item appears mainly due to
the inclusion therein of funds temporarily
invested pending their collection by the
taxgatherer, for whose benefit most busi-
nesses primarily work these days. On
the other side of the sheet provision for
the same avaricious person probably
accounts for a large slab of the debt struc-
ture. Nevertheless, no harm would be
done if a little more permanent capital
were introduced at first opportunity.
Newcastle and Hunter River Steamship Co.
To Be- Re-
Dec., Profit. Dividends. serves, serves.
1933.. 13,840 7 p.c. = 10,500 3,340 180,180
1934.. 28,071 8 „ ~ 12.000 16,071 196,251
Reserves disappear, £107,677 .. 88,574
1935.. 13,533 9 p.c. = 13,500 33 88,607
1936.. 18,196 9„ „ 13,500 4,696 93,303
June,
1937*. 7,660 10 „ „ 7,500 160 93,463
1938.. 15,037 121), „ 18,750 89,750
1939.. 15,023 10.., ~15,000 23 89,773
1940.. 16,109 10 „ ~15,000 109 89,882
1941.. 14,289 10 „ ~ 15,000 89,171
Insurance recoveries, £18,596 .. 107,767
1942.. 18,430 10 p.c. ='15,000 3,430 111,197
Loss.
1943. . 11,637 6„ „ 9,000 90,660
*Six months.
■[lncluding 21 p.c. sesquicentenary bonus.
For the first time since the beginning
of this century a loss has shown up.
Rationing and other war-time economic
factors reduced the volume of cargo ship-
ments considerably, and passenger traffic,
which never amounted to much of recent
years, fell away, too. Also, the board
reports exceptionally heavy extra expen-
diture, while costs generally continued
to gather way under impetus of infla-
tionary outgo and man-power and
other problems, and freight rates re-
mained moored to the buoy of Govern-
ment control. Further, the co.’s steamer
runnings became irregular for a while
owing to war developments, and one ot
the vessels was taken over by the Gov-
ernment. Though another was substi-
tuted, it is operated by the co. for ihe
Shipping Control Board. Then, to meet
national requirements, a new service was
opened up between Port Stephens and
Sydney, and seldom is a new service
profitable from the outset. Takings were
also affected by loss of the Gwydir in


PATENTS.—Have you an idea worth patenting?
Griffith, Hassel and Griffith, Patent Attorneys,
Asbestos House, Cr. York and Barrack Streets, Sydney,
obtain Commonwealth and foreign patents.—Advt.
* * * *
Hydraulic Power, Electric and Hydraulic Lifts,
Limited (incorporated by Act of Parliament 1888),
hydraulic, electric and general engineers, lift
specialists. Maintenance and repairs of all classes of
lifts and other machinery. Colonial Mutual Life
Building, 14 Martin Place, Sydney.— Advt.
* * * *
DAVIES & COLLISON, Patent Attorneys, Collins
House, 360 Collins Street, Melbourne, 0.1. Austra-
lian and overseas Patents a of 1 Trade Marks.— Advt,
t >i
;«»
M
5#
Established 1808 in Keign of George 111.
STABILITY
The “Atlas” has seen many
battles, including the Battle of
Waterloo, and has emerged
from them all with greater
strength and prestige.
FIRE ACCIDENT MARINE
ATLAS
ASSURANCE COMPANY, LTD.
( England )
ATLAS BUILDINGS, 8 SPRING ST., SYDNEY.
GUY H. HEATH, Manager, N.S.W.
E. V. ELDER,
Assistant Manager for Australia & New Zealand.
LEONARD PETTITT,
Manager for Australia & New Zealand,
sir
The work of trustees and
executors is highly special-
ised—it is unwise to entrust
it to inexperienced hands.
Leave the management of
your estate to a firm render-
ing complete and capable
service. Special facilities
are available for country
and interstate clients. Write
for booklet.
sinmnmfLuco
. 133 PITT STREET, SYDNEY-
Evidence of
INTEGRITY and SECURITY
Essential when appointing your Trustee.
VP7HEN you appoint an Executor and Trustee under your Will you should
” satisfy yourself as to his integrity and that he has a background of ex-
perience in handling Estates. You will be wise to assure yourself that your
Estate will be secure in his hands.
When you appoint Perpetual Trustee Company Limited you can rest assured
on both points. In the management of Estates it brings to bear the judgment
gained by 60 years’ experience. Unlike most Individuals, it has large capital
and reserve funds with consequent financial stability and responsibility.
Send for a copy of “Your Executor and Trustee,” which explains the Company’s
service.
PERPETUAL TRUSTEE COMPANY, LIMITED
DIRECTORS: T. H. Kelly (Chairman); Hon. T. A. J. Playfair, M.L.C. ; E. R. Knox;
H. Norman Pope; Allen O. Lewis; W. Deuchar Gordon.
H. V. Douglass, Managing Director. P. Cureton, Manager.
Executor and Trustee, Agent under Power of Attorney for Absentees and others,
Administrator, etc.
Trust and Agency Funds under Administration exceed £60,000,000.
33-39 HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY.
Southern and Riverina District Representative: O. E. Cowdery, Gurwood Street, Wagga Wagga.
Western District Representative; H A, Shaw, 140 Lord’s Place. Orange.
m
m
THE EVERLASTING VALVE.
This valve is made in the flanged
and screwed type of gunmetal
throughout. The ideal valve for
Boiler Blowoff, as it is leakproof,
simple, easily operated, quick
acting, straight blow through
and no Stuffing Box. Made in all sizes from one inch. No atten-
tion required after being installed, as it is self-grinding in action.
All valves tested to 6001 b. hydraulic pressure. Send for our
Bulletin and let us quote you.
Sole Manufacturers:
GUTHRIDGE PTY. LIMITED
10-12 Parramatta Road, Camper down, N.S.W.
ẅ
the previous term —she has not yet been
replaced.
Outgoings exceeded the year’s takings
by £11,537. No allowance was made
for depreciation. But the fleet, chief
earnings asset, is reported in good order
and condition and insured against marine
and war risks. A year or so ago the
board said more than adequate provision
had been made for depreciation in former
years, and the figures in the table bear
out the statement. A 6 p.c. div. was dis-
tributed, which suggests there is far less
pitch in the outlook than the year’s loss
might suggest.
The co.’s fleet has been plying be-
tween Sydney and Newcastle since 1891,'
when the old Hunter River and New-
castle S.S. cos. were welded into the
present organisation. The co. is in a
strong position, financially and other-
wise, and shareholders have had a long
run of satisfactory divs., sweetened with
£50,000 of bonus scrip (one for two)
in 1920. For the dozen years to the close
of accounts in 1929 a steady 10 p.c. was
paid. Slump and slackness in the coal
trade brought the rate down to 5 p.c. in
1931, but it had climbed to 10 p.c. again
in 1937, and, with a 2} p.c. bonus added
in the following year, remained steady
until the close of accounts in 1942.
Here is the position so far as balance-
sheet figures show it;
1939. 1941. 1942. 1943.
Capital . . £150,000 £150,000 £150,000 £150,000
Liabilities .. 16,907 29,738 20,815 30,498
Ship property 122,869 197,751 166,347 166,347
Freeholds, etc. 3,963 2,032 2,033 2,033
Plant, stores, etc. 8,587 11,717 11,427 11,849
Book debts . . 16,414 31,505 57,482 48,916
Consols, cash,
etc 112,347 33,405 52,974 46,514
During the year the co. went to its
bankers for £16,101 and reduced the
amount coming to trade creditors
(£14,397) by £6418. Debtors’ balances
were lowered by £8566 and cash, etc., by
£6460. The book value of the fleet and
freeholds remained unaltered, and only
£422 was added to plant, etc. The con-
traction in the more or less liquid surplus
(£64,932) was £24,709.
Optimistic chairman C. S. Beale, at the
London meeting of Mount Charlotte
(Kalgoorlie) Gold Mines, Ltd.: Disclo-
sures of ore made in the course of 25
borings, in all 13,618 ft. over a strike
length of 1440 ft., indicated in the
northern section 1,122,200 tons of an
average assay value of 5.36dwt. per ton.
This ore included 501,500 tons averaging
s.9odwt. over a mean width of 61ft.
down to a depth of 750 ft. Borings in
the Central and Southern sections of the
mine also indicated the existence of other
extensive mineralised bodies which await
further investigation. Former owners, in-
cluding a long defunct English co., ex-
tracted 367,521 tons, mainly from sur-
face opencut and shallow workings,
which yielded 87,6940 z. The mine when
developed on an adequately large scale
should justify the installation of a 30,000-
tons-a-month treatment plant. Wiluna
Gold Mines, Ltd., which has an option
on the property, has by agreement with
the Mt. Charlotte board suspended
operations until the war clouds roll by.
Beale boosted the old Maritana group,
adjacent to Mt. Charlotte, in which that
co. has recently taken an interest. He
said there was reason to believe that it
was a good thing, an opinion which is
not shared by some local mining men.
* * * *
New Milano’s receipts (wholly gold
proceeds) for the year to Feb. 28 last
totalled £29,608. Profit is estimated at
£3789. Since the close of accounts bul-
lion valued at £3788 has been got from
crushings. Balance sheet shows that or.
balance date co. had liquid assets, gold
banked, fixed deposit and cash totalling
£4292 and owed £987 to creditors. Direc-
tors say that the year was one of increas-
ing difficulty owing to shortage of labor
and trouble in securing supplies. They
repeat the statement in their circular of
August 3 that as a result of such increas-
ing difficulty the New Milano mine has
been closed down and work concentrated
on the Leslie mine (co.’s second golden
string) “so that trial crushings might be
obtained.” Past returns, they say, aver-
aged 15dwt. a ton.
* * * *
Golden Horseshoe’s share in 1942 of
profit from re-treatment of Boulder tail-
ings dump on joint account with Gt.
Boulder was £5tg21,366. In addition
£1396 was received by way of interest,
dividends, etc., and credit taken for £4OOO
which the co. reckons it is entitled to
recover under the deficiency-relief provi-
sions of U.K. excess-profits-tax legisla-
tion. This gave, with £21,127 brought in,
a total available credit balance of £47,889.
Deductions for fourpenny dividend paid
in June, 1942, and taxation reduced this
balance to £10,198. A dividend of 3d.
paid in June this year took £9310, leaving-
£BBB to carry forward. During 1942
486,170 short tons was re-treated for an
average yield of ss. 4d. (Aust.) per ton.
All-in working costs were 3s. Ijd. per
ton. Stock of tailings at the end of the
year was 427,412 short tons. At present
rate of throughput treatment of this ton-
nage is expected to be completed by
March, 1944. Chairman knight Frederic
Hamilton told shareholders at the annual
meeting that it was impossible to forecast
what the co. would do after that. The
co. had an understanding with Lake View
and Star in terms of which it might re-
treat a pile of about half a million tons
of tailings on a 50-50 profit-sharing basis.
Whether that would be profitable or
indeed a practicable operation it was still
too early to say. Difficulties of rising
costs, man-power, equipment and stores
all increased during the year and were
still growing. These factors might prove
overwhelming. In present circumstances
it would be premature to arrive at a deci-
sion.* The balance sheet shows that the
financial position of the co. remains
strong. Liquid assets, including stores,
approximate to the nominal amount of
issued capital.
* * * *
Increased costs due to war-time con-
ditions and heavier taxation are bringing
Westralian goldmining cos.’ profits down.
Boulder Perseverance’s for 1942 at
£49,328 was approximately £16,000 less
than that for 1941. Dividends totalling
Is. a share, directors’ extra remuneration
(divided by four) £7787, and reserve for
taxation aggregated £48,138, leaving
£13,052 to carry forward, against £11,862
brought in.


BALANCE SHEET OF
The Commercial Bank of Australia Ltd.
C lncorporated in Victoria under the “Companies Act 1890 v )
As at Close of Business on 30th June, 1943.
LIABILITIES.
Authorised Capital—
-300.000 Preference Shares of £lO each £3,000,000 0 0
1,000,000 Ordinary Shares of 10s. each 2,000,000 0 0
£5,000,000 0 0
Issued Capital—
211,735 Preference Shares fully paid in cash to £lO per share £2,117,350 0 0
4,000,000 Ordinary Shares fully paid in cash to 10s. per share 2,000,000 0 0
Paid-up Capital ~ £4,117.350 0 0
Reserve Fund 2,000,000 0 0
(Used in the business of the Bank)
Exchange Adjustment Reserve 250,000 0 0
(Used in the business of the Bank)
Final Dividend proposed payable August, 1943 .. .. .. 109,013 13 4
Balance of Profit and Loss Account . 112,766 7 8
Total Shareholders’ Funds
Deposits, Bills Payable and Other Liabilities, including
Taxation and Contingencies .. ..
Notes in Circulation .. .. .. ..
Balances due to Other Banks .. .. ..
£6,589,130 1 0
provisions for
53,461,567 14 11
6,181 0 0
8,803 19 6
£60,065,682 15 5
Contingent Liabilities £2,247,976 13 4
(As per contra in regard to obligations of Customers and others on
Letters of Credit, Drafts, Guarantees, etc.)
i• ASSETS
Coin, Bunion Australian and Reserve Bank "of New Zealand Notes and Cask
at Bankers
Cheques and Bills of Other Banks
Balances with and due from Other Banks
Money at Short Call in London
Treasury Bills—
Australian Government
Other Government
,035,681 2 10
,363,256 13 1
105,634 14 1
187,500 0 0
£3,905,000
605.000
Public Securities—
(At or under market value)
Australian Government ..
Other Government ..
Local and Semi-Governmental Authorities’.
,510,000 0 0
£7.091,294 15 10
3,550,625 9 5
101,382 18 1
Wai Time Deposit Account with Commonwealth Bank of Australia
Bills Receivable and Remittances in Transit
Stamps
,743,303 3 4
,847,000 0 0
,928,195 18 4
20,885 6 0
T . , £35,741,456 17 8
Loans, Advances and Bills Discounted 23,069,775 17 9
(After deducting provision for Debts considered Bad or Doubtful)
Bank Premises, Furniture and Sites ..... . . 1,254,450 0 0
(At cost less amounts 1 written off)
£60,065,682 15 5
Contingent Assets .. £2,247,976 13 4
(Comprising Liabilities of Customers and others on Letters of Credit,
Drafts, Guarantees, etc., as per contra)
(The Balance Sheet figures are stated in Australian currency.)
PROFIT AND LOSS ACCOUNT IN RESPECT OF THE YEAR ENDED 30th JUNE, 1943.
To Expenses—Head Office, 422 Branches and Agencies
(Including Directors’ Fees, £3,125)
~ Income, Land and Other Taxes
„ Balance, being Net Profit for the Year carried down ..
To Amounts written off Bank Premises
„ Dividends—
Interim paid February, 1943
Final, proposed payable August, 1943
„ Balance carried forward
£857,526 15 0
208,295 15 2
241,552 11 0
£1,307,375 1 8
£25,000 0 0
£109,013 13 4
109,013 13 4
218.027 6 8
112,766 7 8
£355,793 14 4
By Discount and Interest earned, net Exchange, Commissions and Other Income
after deducting Interest Paid and Accrued on Deposits, Rebate on Bills
Current at balance date and Appropriations to the credit of Contingencies
Accounts (out of which Accounts provision for all Bad and Doubtful
Debts has been made) £1,307,375 1 8
£1,307,375 1 8
By Net Balance brought forward .. £114,241 3 4
„ Net Profit for the Year 241,552 11 0
£355,793 14 4
By Balance
£112,706 7 8
If PERCY FREDERICK GRAHAM GORDON, General Manager of The Commercial Bank of Australia Limited, do solemnly and sincerely declare that the Reserve, the Exchange
Adjustment Reserve, and accumulated profits are used in the business, and that the accompanying Balance Sheet and Statement of Profit and Loss of the Bank are, to the best of my
knowledge and belief, true in every particular.
Names, addresses and occupations of the persons who are the Directors of the Company at the date of the Statement: JOHN LANGLEY WEBB. Shipowner, Melbourne: WILLIAM
HOWELL SWANTON, Merchant, Melbourne; ARTHLR SYDNEY BAILLIEU, Investor, Melbourne; WILLIAM JAMES BYRNE, Solicitor, Melbourne; WILLIAM SYDNEY REID, Merchant,
Melbourne.
And I make this solemn declaration conscientiously believing the same to be true, and by virtue of the provisions of an Act of the Parliament of Victoria rendering persons making
a false declaration punishable for wilful and corrupt perjury.
DECLARED at Melbourne, in the State of Victoria, this 26th day of July, One thousand nine hundred and forty-three.
Before me—R. L. G. MeCOY. ' P. F. G. GORDON.
t A Commissioner for taking Declarations and
Affidavits UTvdcv the **EvidcTicc Act J. 928
We, JOHN LANGLEY WEBB, WILLIAM SYDNEY REID and WILLIAM JAMES BYRNE, of Melbourne, being Directors of The Commercial Bank of Australia Limited, do
hereby certify that in our opinion the foregoing Balance Sheet is true and correct, and is drawn up so as to exhibit a true and correct view of the state of the Company’s affairs, and
that the Statement of Profit and Loss exhibits a true and correct view of the results of the business of the Company for the year.
On behalf of the Board. JOHN L. WEBB,
Dated at Melbourne this 26th day of July, 1943. W. S. REID,
AUDITORS’ REPORT TO SHAREHOLDERS. w J - BYRNE.
To the Shareholders of T , 101 «
THE COMMERCIAL BANK OF AUSTRALIA LIMITED. Melbourne, 26th July, 1943.
Ladies and Gentlemen, ,
We report that we have audited the accounts of your Bank for the year ended 30th June. 1943, and that in our opinion the Balance Sheet is properly drawn up, and exhibits a true am
correct view of the state of the Company’s affairs, arid that the Statement of Profit and Loss is properly drawn up so as to exhibit a true and correct view of the results or the business o
the Company for the year, according to the best of our information and the explanations given to us and as shown by the books of the Company. . . , T ....... f
The London Ofiice figures to the same date have been accepted by us on cabled advice from the London Auditors, Messrs. Jackson, Pixley and Co., and the Assets ana mammies
the Branches taken on the Certificates of the Managers and Accountants.
We have received every assistance from the Officers of the Bank, and they have supplied us with all the information and explanations we have required.
We are. Ladies and Gentlemen, yours faithfully,
Wni 1 S°PHILIP } Chartered Accountants (Australia).
Business, Rollery, Etc.
Venture and Security
In these pages over the past twelve
months considerable attention has been
given to the question of social security,
both before and after the Beveridge dis-
cussions. The necessity for each able
person to make a contribution to his own
security on a co-operative basis, the
limited and relative nature of any security
scheme, the need for a real fund of
passed-on national development instead
of just a money fund that might be
created out of inflation, and the many
obstructive half-truths and sophistries
heard from the vote-catching type of poli-
tician were considered, and the opinion
expressed that, in spite of the pitfalls and
fallacies, “in endeavoring to win what-
ever approach to security man may
reasonably expect as a living being some
of the finest and most estimable aspects
of his character are revealed.”
An endeavor was made to get at the
root of the matter:
Away from war, our present living standards
and future security depend considerably upon
how we can develop and use our man-power
and materials now and reserve some of that
development for future benefits. So far as
retirement pensions are concerned, the thing
will resolve itself into a matter of passing on
to posterity development, knowledge and other
worked-for values of a permanent nature in
return for a share in posterity’s production
later on of the essentials of life. In other
words, it is no use merely to establish a money
fund now and pass that on to the future as a
source of sustenance for the people who are
growing old. That fund may easily lose its
value through inflation caused by unwise
political interference in economic matters.
To be fair to posterity finance has to be
managed wisely, and for posterity to be able to
honor our pension rights without undue hard-
ship to itself a pension fund must not be solely
in the nature of a liability; it must have a
backing in some kind of national assets created
in the working life of the pensioners. It may
be that some people of the present day con-
sider that the sacrifices of this war place pos-
terity under an obligation to them. But the
present sacrifices, financially, are not being
squarely accepted by the Australian Govern-
ment or its principal followers, with the result
that our entire financial future may be jeopar-
dised. Further, both this and the last generation
have had a war to fight, and the next may have
its own.
Other people in other parts of the world
are giving the matter deep thought. The
Beveridge plan, of course, has received
world-wide attention. From the United
States comes a critical survey entitled
“Venture and Security,” a contribution
by the First National Bank of Boston in
its New England letter. It emphasises the
belief that the best form of social secu-
rity is the establishment of economic con-
ditions that enable private enterprise to
guarantee jobs, and “keep open the doors
of opportunity for the youth of the land.”
In leading up to that conclusion it covers
interesting ground;
The quest for security is the fundamental
urge of the times and is a universal ailment.
Essentially it is an attempt to escape from
reality. It finds reflection in the “cradle-to-the-
grave” security plans, in deficit - financing
theories, the new debt philosophy, and in the
vast array of Utopian schemes that are de-
signed to provide shelter against the storms
of life. This same craving found expression
abroad in Fascism and Nazism. The Italians
and Germans surrendered their freedom for
an illusory security and military pageantry.
But they were led into a war of aggression that
threatened the very security of civilisation.
The downfall of Mussolini and the humiliation,
defeat and disaster that have befallen Italy
should be warning of the fate of a people that
surrender their individual freedom to autocratic
power.
With the crumbling of autocratic systems in
Europe, it is timely to re-examine the funda-
mentals of the American system, in which
private initiative is the dominant force. Our
private enterprise system is the survival of ex-
periments in virtually all forms of endeavor,
following thousands of years that mankind was
struggling with nature to eke out a bare sub-
sistence. It needs to be constantly corrected
and modified as defects appear, but we should
make corrections within its framework and not
adopt policies that would undermine and even-
tually destroy it. Human nature being what
it is, the prospect of individual reward, based
upon contribution to society, is the mainspring
of progress, and the release of individual energy
under such a stimulus is the most creative force
in the world.
It is clear that this Boston authority
fears that certain social-security plans are
—unlike the Beveridge scheme —some-
thing that visualise a state more than
“halfway along the road to Moscow” and
that some others, as this paper expressed
it, are searchers for a new kind of “Las-
seter’s lost reef.” There is a forthright
stand for private pioneering and enter-
prise :
Modem progress is accounted for largely by
a comparatively few men who were willing to
risk their all on the prospect of rewards. We
are told by Carl Snyder that nine-tenths of our
wealth is the direct result of the machines,
which in turn were the product of the brains
and efforts of the inventors, enterprisers and
accumulators. These were the exceptionally
gifted individuals who blazed new trails, built
our industries and developed our resources.
That they incurred great risks is evidenced by
the history of the automobile, railroads,
electrical appliances, movies, radio, telephone,
airplane and the like. Many of the ventures
failed, but t?iat there was a great net gain to
all is reflected in our unparalleled economic
progress as evidenced by the steady decline
in the hours of work, the elimination by labor-
saving devices of much back-breaking toil, the
maintenance of a high level of employment and
the general increase in living standards over
the years. The compensation for these services
and risks is very modest, as is shown by the
fact that the average net return on, capital
investment in United States corporations for the
past 20 years was at the annual rate of only
about three per cent.
The story of enterprise, risk and reward
is much the same in Australia. And so
is the record of burdensome Government,
finance: —
Over the decades a favorable atmosphere pre-
vailed for risk-taking. Then came the global
depression, an aftermath of the first World War.
Under the distress and confusion of the times
there developed the pessimistic philosophy that
we had reached industrial maturity and could
no longer advance under the direction of private
initiative, and that the Government must hence-
forth be the guiding spirit in our economic
progress. The large volume of idle capital
was pointed to as evidence that business enter-
prise could not function under its own steam.
But this was a false premise as it put the cart
before the horse. Capital markets were largely
stagnant because of the Governmental policies
adopted, particularly near-confiscatory taxation
which served to shut off the flow of new capital,
the constant supply of which is essential for
the operation of our economic system. Without
this supply of capital, business became stag-
nant and the United States, which had for
decades led the world in economic progress,
was among the most laggard in rising from
the depression. In short, by penalising risk-
taking millions of persons were deprived of
jobs.
Our economic system is so intricate and so
delicately adjusted that a thorough knowledge
of its workings is essential to its effective opera-
tion. Subject only to reasonable regulation,
its direction and control should continue in the
experienced hands which have been responsible
for our industrial greatness. It should not be
unduly interfered with by Government agencies,
lor unwise decisions or the adoption of un-'
sound policies are almost certain to do irre-
parable harm. As Winston Churchill has said:
We must beware of trying to build a society
m which nobody counts for anything except
a politician or an official, a society where
enterprise gains no reward, and thrift no privi-
leges.”
Looking to the future, with its obvious
problems:
The war will leave us with a heritage of
staggering debt, heavy taxes and the stupendous
task of providing jobs for those released from
the military forces and the war plants. The
problems of the post-war period will be a chal-
lenge to the best talent we can muster and will
call for the intelligent organising and directing
of our resources, man-power, capital and all the
facilities at our command. It is particularly
important that private concerns should emerge
from the war period strong, vigorous and re-
sourceful so that they can make the maximum
contribution in the ' reconstruction period.
In summing-up the Boston bank says:
Security and venture are not mutually an-
tagonistic but are complementary. The one
depends upon the other, for social and eco-
nomic progress go hand in hand. We should
create in the post-war period a favorable
climate for free enterprise so that business can
face the future with confidence and faith, and
thus be impelled to make long-term commit-
ments that would furnish jobs, the best form
of security, and keep open the doors of oppor-
tunity for the youth of the land.
Australia is passing through a period
where ignorance, selfishness and organ-
ised revolt against established common-
sense principles are imposing an almost
overwhelming burden upon those whose
energies and sacrifices are the corner-
stone of the present national effort. It
has to be remembered that a callous dis-
regard for the other fellow, whether it be
in relation to economic matters or to the
disproportionately heavy tasks allotted
to the first few A.I.F. divisions, cannot
possibly make a successful foundation-
stone for any social-security undertaking.
The essence of these things is co-opera-
tion. And it should be quite clear that
industry itself, the basis of any social
security a country may achieve, is a thing
to be kept separate from any Govern-
ment-controlled scheme, even though
portion of the fruits of private enterprise
pass to the Government for the purpose
of spreading over a man’s or woman’s
natural life the rewards won during a
working life.


War Loan Investments are always
e
and always
Saleable
In the event of emergen-
cies you con turn your
war investments into
cash at any time.
i
I,
Si
m
. - - -
mi:
■
m
mm
When you lend your savings to help our war effort your
investment is backed by all the resources of Australia ...
and while it’s to your advantage and Australia’s for you to
retain your investments at least until the war is over, you
still can turn them into cash at any time should the need
arise. The Commonwealth Bank will arrange this for any
person. Other Banks will do the same for their own clients.
By lending all your savings to help to win the war more
quickly you are giving yourself a substantial nest-egg to
use when the war has been won, and peace brings the
opportunity for wise spending.
So invest every pound you can save in the safest and most
profitable investment you can get today —an investment in
Australia’s future which at the same time assures your
own future.
THE MORE YOU SAVE THE MORE YOU HAVE!
LE 6 -19
Keep on buying War
Savings Certificates
from any Bank or
Money Order Post
Office or make an
advance subscription
now, to the Fourth
Liberty Loan, through
any Bank or Stock-
broker.
Emm
mm
10 for 1/1
20 for 2/2
Always
Always
iresli • <,
smootli
i T
Carreras Ltd.—ls 4 Years’ Reputation for Quality
A foolish spender is a trailer.
The right place for your money
is in £lO National Savings Bonds
5064 3
Greater Union Theatres
The Greater Union Theatres group,
in the chairmanship of which Norman B.
Rydge some years back succeeded Stuart
F. Doyle, is at last making substantial
profits, helped to a large extent by war-
time attendances at theatres. In the term
to Dec. 31 last enough profit was shown,
after putting aside an almost equal
amount for taxation, to pay 9.3 p.c. on
the £1,146,753 of holding-Co. capital,
pref. and ord In the period since January
1 this year trading is reported to be satis-
factory, and “profits bear favorable com-
parison with those earned for the corre-
sponding period of the previous year.”
The Greater Union group is composed
of Greater Union Theatres Pty., which
is engaged in showing pictures in theatres
either owned or leased by the co.; British
Empire Films, which imports films from
Britain and the U.S.A. and hires them
out; Cinesound Productions, which
makes a weekly newsreel and processes
copies of imported films; National
Theatres Supply Co., which retails to
theatres, cine machinery, carbons, lamps,
tickets, dockets, etc.; and Union Theatres
Investments, owner of the State Theatre,
Theatrette and shopping block, Sydney.
In U.T. Investments Greater Union owns
all the 500,000 ords. and 126,664 of the
350,000 prefs.
The control of Greater Union rests
with Spencers Pictures (26.7 p.c.), Greater
J. D. Williams (32.5 p.c.), Wests (26.2 p.c.)
and Amalgamated Pictures (14.6 p.c.).
Among them they own the £400,000 of
issued capital. The div. paid by Greater
Union in respect of 1942 was 10 p.c.,
calling for £40,000, of which Spencers
got £10,680, Greater J. D, Williams
£13,000, Wests £10,480 and Amalgamated
£5840. These holding cos. are now mak-
ing distributions to their own share-
holders.
The net profit earned by the group last
term was £106,891, after setting aside
£106,889 for taxation. In the preceding
year no provision had been made for
taxes. Although the 1942 allowance
would appear to be adequate so far as
that year’s profit is concerned, the direc-
tors are not certain that all the taxation
charges that will accrue against the group,
including war-time company tax, can be
met out of an aggregate tax reserve of
£111,935 —the basis of assessment of war-
time tax is indefinite, as Greater Union’s
paid capital is £400,000, against the hold-
ing cos.’ capital of £1,146,753, some of
which is represented by assets other than
shares in Greater Union.
Here is a comparison of the group’s
detailed and aggregate earnings over four
years;—
1939. 1940. 1941. 1942.
Profit. Profit. Profit. Profit.*
G. Group £1,705 £52,754 £100,728 £106,891
Loss.
G.U.T. Pty. .. 12,949 37,561 79,079 75,797
Brit. Empire Profit.
Films .. 14,498 10,075 16,634 23,043
Cinesound . . 935 2,821 1,242 5,018
Nat. Theatre Loss.
Supplies .. 780 2,297 3,773 3,033
* After providing £106,889 for taxation.
In all comparisons, the taxation pro-
vision should be kept in mind. Before
allowing taxation, the 1942 result was
more than twice the 1941 showing, which
was nearly double that for 1940. The
1939 profit was the first for some years.
The accumulated net credits in combined
p. and 1. accounts of the four working
cos. was £288,952 at December 31.
“A very substantial credit balaqce”
has now replaced the £343,364 overdraft
that burdened finances at January 3, 1939.
In addition, during October last year
Greater Union bought 126,664 prefs. in
U.T. Investments at a cost of about
£77,000. The tax bill, however, has still
to be met. In May this year the control
of U.T. Investments. put up a scheme to
the pref. shareholders whereby, in place
of their right to a preferential 5 p.c. and
half of the profits after 1 p.c. to the ords.,
they would be guaranteed profits of
£40,000 a year (against the prevailing
£19,000) for 10 years, and their div. made
a fixed cumulative 6 p.c., without partici-
pation. The prefs. accepted, though one
reason why their div. had never got above
5 p.c. previously was the low rental —
£33,800 a year—paid for the State
Theatre by Greater Union.
Greater Union, either directly or by
association, is now interested in 59
theatres in Sydney and suburbs (19),
Newcastle (four), Cessnock (four), Aber-
dare and Abermain, Weston and Goul-
burn (one each), Kurri (two), Melbourne
(four), Brisbane (four), other Queensland
in association with Birch, Carroll and
Coyle (houses at Townsville, Rockhamp-
ton, Bundaberg, Ipswich and Mary-
borough), Adelaide (four), Hobart (two),
Launceston (one), and Perth (two). Eight
theatres in the “Broadway Circuit,” Syd-
ney suburbs, have only recently come
under the co.’s direction.
Broken Hill Prop, has had another year
of high activity and low earnings. The
increase allowed by the Prices Commis-
sioner in the co.’s products during the
period did not nearly compensate for the
war-time increase in production costs, and
the co.’s steel remains the cheapest in
the world. Plant has been worked to its
maximum capacity in filling defence and
essential requirements; but upkeep of it
is becoming a matter for concern.
Transport is still a problem: “Shipping
remains one of our chief anxieties, in-
asmuch as our stocks of iron ore at
Newcastle have been very much depleted,
but, with the help of the local N. S.
Wales iron ore, production, though some-
what affected, has been reasonably well
maintained.” The magnesium plant is
coping with all demands, and output of
tuncsten carbide tool tins is satisfactory
tungsten-carbide tool tips is satisfactory
and low in cost. Australian Iron and
Steel is also working to capacity ; besides
steel, “many and varied munitions are
being produced.” Commonwealth Steel
is now turning out stainless steel, as well
as “a diversified range of alloy and tool
steels.” The B.H.P..board says: “Aus-
tralia need never be ashamed of its part
in the building-up of the many and varied
munitions of war. Also when present-day
stocks and capacity for manufacture are
considered there should not be over-
looked the outstanding fact that when
war broke out this nation was virtually
unarmed, with little or no capacity for
the manufacture of arms and ammuni-
tion.” In concluding his address the
chairman, H. G. Darling, touched on a
key subject: “1 would like to stress that
costs are of vital importance from an
economic point of view, not only to in-
dustry in Australia but to the whole
nation. In war-time, with the amount of
destruction that is taking place, costs are
apt to be forgotten, but in peace-time they
are Number One consideration.”
Savings-bank deposits rose £12.3 mil-
lion in July, compared with the record
rise of £l3 million in June and £7.8
rnillion in May. Since the outbreak of
war increase has been £126 million.
The j s now £370 million. The pic-
turc ~ hat rlsl T s up is ail out of plumb: a
pe ° ple § rowm g ncher whlle the country
s rer th h war . time wastage,
depreciation and debt.
* * * *
At the end of the financial year, and
after repaying £8 million of war debt to
Britain, New Zealand’s net overseas funds
totalled £37.1 million, compared with
£30.9 million at the close of the preced-
ing year. “Satisfactory production results”
a nd “the United Kingdom’s ability to pro-
vide shipping” were responsible for the
good export year,
* * * »
Over the past five years Maoriland has
paid £30.9 million in sales tax, of which
£13.2 million has been special war tax
collected over the last three years. To
begin with the rate was 5 p.c. In June,
1940, it was lifted to 10 p.c., the increase
going to defence account. In May, 1942,
the rate was again doubled, but certain
items were exempted from the increase,
staying at 10 p.c. instead of the new 20
p.c. During the financial year to March
31, 1943, of the £ll million collected,
£3.6 million was earmarked ordinary
taxation and £7.4 million war taxation.


THE SERVICE MAN
Cutting Off Lae.
“Ek Dum”: Operations in the New
Guinea area last week were preparative
for the end of the first stage of the land
war, which involves the taking of Sala-
maua and Lae.
The policy pursued was the old one of
preventing the enemy reinforcing rear-
ward bases or the front lines, and of bat-
tering front-line positions at the same
time.
The most important new move was a
fresh landing of Allied troops with an
Australian spearhead between Lae, which
lies 35 miles across Huon Gulf from
Salamaua, and Finschhafen.
On Sept. 4 it was announced that 84
tons of explosives had been dropped on
Lae and all buildings in the administra-
tive area had been destroyed.
The landing followed swiftly under a
smokescreen after naval bombardment
and a second air attack in which 96 tons
of bombs were used to destroy gun posi-
tions and installations, while the Allied
air forces attended to dive-bombers and
medium bombers which came to attack
the landing parties. They shot down 21
Jap ’planes, including 16 fighters, for
a loss of two machines.
By August 31 Salamaua was virtually
cut off, with Allied troops all round the
landward perimeter—or nearly enough all
round.
On that day General Mac Arthur’s
H.Q. reported strong activity all the way
along the supply routes down the New
Britain coasts and two major attacks on
mainland New Guinea bases. In one of
these 114 tons of bombs were dropped
on Wewak by Liberators, covered by
Lightnings, which found plenty of work
to be done on 60 enemy interceptors
which rose in a swarm and gave battle.
H.Q. reported that 25 enemy ’planes were
destroyed in the engagement, 12 probably
destroyed and 17 damaged; Allied losses
were “light.” The Liberators dropped
114 tons of bombs on aircraft revetments
and dispersal areas, lighted many fires,
listened to some sonorous explosions and
watched 12 aircraft caught on the ground
go up in flames.
At Madang a force of two-engined
machines under escort which strafed
Alexishafen and other points left behind
55 tons of bombs, strafed suitable objec-
tives and sank 21 barges.
The programme was repeated next day
on the aerodromes surrounding Wewak,
leaving a trail of fire and 20 to 25
wrecked machines, mostly medium
bombers, on Dagua,
On Sept. 4 three 7000-ton freighters
were sunk from masthead height off
Wewak, and a warship and a small cargo
ship left ablaze. Twelve out of 35 fighters
were shot down and five damaged. The
Allies lost three bombers and a fighter.
General MacArthur reported that
events at Wewak and other forward air
centres had forced the enemy to move
his air-support bases back to Hollandia,
and even further away. Hollandia is
across the Dutch New Guinea border. It
is more than 400 miles from Salamaua
and Lae, so dangerously distant from the
front that fighters based there can be of
little use in support of troops in the
actual land fighting.
A Cathedral Blows Up
The Allied Command evidently felt,
however, that a finishing-off operation
was necessary in the Madang area ; so
all the enemy centres surrounding it, in-
cluding the German mission station at
Alexishafen, were visited, strafed from
tree-height and packed with bombs.
At Alexishafen the cathedral, which the
enemy obviously was using as a bomb
store, was directly hit and went up with
a roar, but there was no interception,
though ack-ack fire was heavy. It was
the greatest raid which New Guinea has
seen. Apart from 206 tons of bombs
dropped, 90,000 rounds of ammunition
were fired and a trail of blazing ruin left
wherever the raiders penetrated,
A dozen other centres had visits dur-
ing the week, and patrols picked up a
respectabie number of barges along the
New Britain coast, while an R.A.A.F.
Catalina dropped a 5001 b. bomb on a
cruiser.
All main New Britain aerodromes, in-
cluding those at Rabaul, were attacked at
the week-end.
At Salamaua itself the small squeez-
ing actions continued. By September 2
the last pocket, of resistance on Roose-
velt Ridge, in the American section near
the sea, had been roped off, and troops
were moving along both banks of the
winding Francisco River towards the
isthmus and fanning out to assault the
aerodrome, which is on the mainland in
swampy land, under the shadow of the
hills. The week ended with sharp fight-
ing near the coast and before Bobdubi.
Enemy casualties were heavy.
What the remnants of Lae-Salamaua’s
garrison need is a stealthy evacuation
fleet —preferably one that can crawl along
the bottom of the Huon Gulf.
In the Solomons
In the Solomons the operations, in
scale and nature, were very similar to those
in the New Guinea end of the south-
western attack arc. Communiques re-
ported :
August 31: Eight enemy ’planes were de-
stroyed on Kahili aerodrome in a raid on the
Buin area, and four barges at Santa Ysabel.
September 1: Activity limited by bad weather.
September 2: Kahili was raided, but bad visi-
bility prevented damage, obviously heavy, being
assessed. Enemy interceptors were out in force.
Out of 60 which attacked the raiders 36 were
shot down in a 25-mile running fight, against
a loss of six Americans. At various points
round the New Georgia group and Santa Ysabel
several barges were destroyed by aircraft and
light naval units.
September 3: Enemy ’planes made five in-
effectual raids on Allied shore installations and
shipping at Vella Lavella ; five Jap dive-bombers
were shot down by fighter patrols and four by
ack-ack fire. At Vila (Kolombangara) U.S.
’planes wrecked the radio station and several
artillery positions, including a five-inch coastal
gun. Vila was shelled incessantly from the
New Georgia coast.
The attacks against both Kahili and Vila
were continued on September 4 and 5.
August a Record
August was a busy month for the
Allies on the New Guinea-Solomon arc.
A record was set up for destruction of
enemy machines—sB4 destroyed (272 on
the ground), 33 probables and 31
damaged. In the air 312 were shot down
as compared with 421 in July. The Allies
lost 145 machines, two-thirds bombers.
An enemy cruiser, two destroyers, two
tenders and 10 merchant ships were prob-
ably sunk, 500 barges were wrecked and
a cruiser, six destroyers and 18 trans-
ports and tankers were damaged, against
the loss of one Allied ship.
And on land, with hard fighting, there
were captured the whole of New Georgia
and the approaches of Salamaua.
This, with the driving back of the
enemy front airline to the Dutch border,
and the apparent immobilisation of every
enemy air base on the south, from
Rabaul to the Dutch border, constituted
the most substantial accomplishment of
the Allies in the south-west Pacific in
terms of real offensive progress since the
beginning of the war in the Pacific,
Eighth Army Lands Again.
“Ek Dum”: The Allied invasion of the
toe of Italy must have come almost as a
relief to the nerve-racked Italians and
their partners, who had been expecting
it daily since Messina fell on August 16.
No day thereafter passed without some
token from the Allies being sent across
the Strait, The Navy sent a fine collec-
tion of six-inch shells, mixed with smaller
samples, and Italian authorities claimed
to be collecting parachutists on a large
scale.
The toe of Italy is a fine place for night
invasion by scouts. For the most part it
is not 25 miles wide. Its interior is as
primitive as in the Middle Ages, full of
villages which have not learnt the danger
of having the kitchen midden in the front
garden. The costumes are colorful and
archaic, the timber tall and the ranges
rough and tangled with short, steep,
lateral ravines and mountains which rear
up as high as the Bogongs.
Between this fine warren for hiding in
there are pleasant sea-coast plains and
flats on which a visitor may land com-
fortably and fill his pockets with oranges
at the right season before taking to the
hills.
No doubt there were very many visi-
tors in Calabria in the last fortnight of
August, all without passports and all as
terrible as the Albanian colonists who
exist among the hills, though without
their idiosyncrasies—Albanians used to
have the legendary reputation of being
partial to Italian livers in oil.
The first serious landing attempt was
reported from Berlin on August 31.
There were two different stories. One
was that 400 incautious Britons had come
ashore south of Reggio, a city about the
size of Newcastle, within sight of Mes-
sina, and given in peace-time to the mak-
ing of perfumes, silks and terra-cotta.
The party was alleged to have come
ashore weighed down with communica-
tion gear, and to have walked straight
into the arms of an eagerly-waiting force
of Axis troops.
One version declared that all the
strangers had been wiped out except 30,
who had taken to the hills and were being
hunted; the other that 300 Britons were
still at large next morning. Allied H.Q.
said nothing.
Nor was anything said about another
interesting visit. This, it transpired, was
from H.M.S. Nelson and Rodney, which
mount 18 16in. guns between them, apart
from 24 six-inchers. These two levia-
thans are capable of serving out about
105 tons of shell in five minutes’ firing
time. They moved majestically down the
strait, seconded in places by lighter ships,
and plastered land batteries which might
later be a nuisance to landing parties.
Quite a bit of Calabria was lifted bodily
by the shelling and by exploding dumps.
That day the watchdogs of La Linea,
just outside the Gibraltar boundary, re-
ported the arrival there of a naval force
of two British battleships, three cruisers
and 20 destroyers, with three troop trans-
ports and 45 merchantmen. This was fol-
lowed by another report of the arrival
of a convoy of 50 ships, escorted by a
U.S. battleship of the Texas type, with
three aircraft-carriers and a large number
of British destroyers. But by the time
their arrival had caused shivers in Rome,
where armored cars on September 2
patrolled the streets and leaflets were dis-
tributed calling for a 15-minute strike
as a peace demonstration, General Mont-
gomery’s troops were already ashore.
The landings were made in darkness'
on the beaches opposite Messina. Cana-
dian troops who have joined the Eighth
Army took part. The strait is narrow at
this point, so much so as to allow even
field guns to join in laying down an in-
tensive barrage. Hills rise above the
beaches about 1000 feet over the landing
beaches, and there were many guns in
them.
British artillery, however, did a fine
job, supported by aircraft and naval guns.
In 50 minutes 150,000 shells were pumped
into Italy, following intensive bombing of
the whole of the enemy’s holding area the
day before.
At night the gathering of hundreds of
ships and fleets of landing barges was
completed. Most of the front-line parties
were seasoned and experienced. Some
had been at Dieppe, some at Lofoten;
all had pushed their way into Sicily.
The same procedure as in the Sicilian
landing was followed. Parachute troops
had been dropped ahead of the barrage
and behind enemy strongposts. The
Navy covered the barges, which it also
provided and managed. They were run
as high on the beaches as they could go.
Then, in a general atmosphere of tense-
ness, men, guns, tanks, communication
units, transport, ammunition, food and
all the immense and complicated para-
phernalia of a landing army, which ranges
from pins to bulldozers, went ashore in
a roaring mass.
There was little resistance, A bridge-
head was established with next to no
casualties. And within 36 hours the com-
mand was able to report the capture of
Reggio, San Giovanni, Scilla —in fact,
almost the whole coastal strip along the
strait for 30 miles from Melito on the
south to Bagnara on the west, facing the
Tyrrhenian Sea.
Later Rome mentioned another land-
ing near Palmi,- on the west.
Germans seemed few and far between.
Italians seemed largely to be obeying the
injunction of Algiers Radio to “welcome
the Allies as your forefathers welcomed
the armies of Garibaldi.”
On Sunday night it was reported
officially from Algiers that resistance was
still comparatively weak, although some
delay was “resulting from an increase in
the scale of demolition.” About 2000
prisoners had been taken. Advance
parties were well inland.
And it was a good sign that in all-
round attacks on the network of com-
munications in the Roman region little
resistance was encountered in the air.
More Bombs on Berlin.
“Ek Dum”: Berlin continues to have
good cause to regret Hitler’s institution
of the bombing of cities as part of his
total war.
German air defence is on an enor-
mous scale. It begins at the Channel and
the North Sea coast, and continues in
depth right across the Reich. The large
force of heavies thrown against Berlin
on the night of August 31 —among them
were two Australian Lancaster squadrons,
one of which completed its millionth fly-
ing mile on the trip—met the strongest
protective screen so far encountered.
Apart from the solid floor of flak over
which the raiders have had to fly so soon
as they reach the enemy coastline, they
found an organised night-fighter defence
awaiting them at Berlin itself.
The basis of the German method was
that machines at extreme altitude dropped
flares to make an artificial daylight, in
which the swarming night fighters might
pick out the big bombers.
Unfortunately for the Luftwaffe, this
also enabled the bombers to pick out
the fighters, and Goring’s legions suffered
unpleasant casualties —27 aircraft.
Berlin Radio admitted heavy damage
in the 45-minute attack, which was de-
clared to be as heavy as the one in the
previous week, in. which 1800 tons of
bombs were dropped.
The Germans claimed 47 Lancasters as
destroyed. The Air Ministry admitted
the loss of 47 bombers and a fighter
from the whole day’s raiding, which in-
cluded sweeping attacks by Mosquitoes
over the Ruhr and by long-range fighters
and medium bombers on the Low Coun-
tries and northern France. In France,
where Fortresses and Spitfires operated
along with Mitchells and Typhoons, 12
enemy aircraft were destroyed for the
loss of two bombers and three fighters.
On the night Of Friday, September 3,
a strong force of Lancasters, including
R.A.A.F. machines, dropped 1000 tons
of bombs on a concentrated section of
Berlin in 20 minutes. The opposition
was not so heavy as in the previous attack,
but 22 bombers were reported missing
from that and several other operations.
Berlin admitted severe damage and
casualties inside Greater Berlin.
The Lancasters apparently used a new
route to avoid German ack-ack attack
They drove sheer across the North Sea in
a direct line to the Baltic coast some-
where near Stettin, thus having to cross
only about 150 miles of enemy land in-
stead of 400 miles or so by the direct
route from the Channel.
Stockholm afterwards reported that
Swedish anti-aircraft guns had opened up
heavily on 250 Lancasters which had
flown across the tip of Sweden returning
from the raid, and that one had been
brought down and members of the crew
rescued, including an Australian.
Swedish reporters appear to be awe-
struck by the damage which has been
done to the German capital. The whole
district surrounding the Tempelhof aero-
drome, which is only three miles from
Berlin’s heart, is laid waste. A large
space of the coronary artery of the
Reich, the Wilhelmstrasse, is barricaded
off round Hitler’s Chancellery, and the
great Lehrter station, in the north-west,
1000 yards or so from Unter den Linden
where it joins the Wilhelmstrasse, has
been declared a wreck, along with the
installations of the adjacent Humboldt-
hafen, the city terminal of the Spandau
ship canal.
If these statements are fact, the heart
of Berlin is truly ringed with fire and
ruin.
Other strategic parts have not escaped.
From the Italian railway south of the
Brenner Pass, which was cut late in the
week by a U.S. Fortress expedition, there
was incessant destructive activity, parti-
cularly in the Rhineland and on the rail-
way systems connecting the Channel coast
with Germany through the Low Coun-
tries and the Ardennes, and the chain of
war factories which the enemy has set up
between the Parisian suburbs and the
Channel.
Every schoolchild in that area must
know the silhouettes of the Mosquito, the
Fortress, the Spitfire,- the Typhoon and
the Thunderbolt.
General Retreat in Russia.
“Ek Dum”: With little fighting re-
ported in the previous few days, save in
the enclave north of Kharkov, the Ger-
mans at the beginning of last week began
a general retreat all along the line. They
began it by a retirement from Taganrog,
and thereafter began to let go positions
all the way along the front as far north
as the Smolensk sector.
The enemy announcement of the with-
drawal declared that in the heavy battles
since July 5, which had gone on without
interruption, the Russians had “nowhere
succeeded in breaking or outflanking the
German front.” Even though the Rus-
sians, regardless of heavy losses, had
thrown ever fresh units into the battle,
wherever they had scored breaks-through
stubborn defence and counter-attacks had
always succeeded in holding the lines or
recapturing them —so it was asserted. And
wherever withdrawals had been made
they had been carried out “in complete
order after the destruction of all objec-
tives of value” (certainly there was de-
struction, and it was characteristically
merciless), and always for the purpose of
shortening the front line and thus gain-
ing new reserves.
Heavy defensive battles, the com-
munique continued, had occurred on the
previous day (August 29), and Taganrog
had been “evacuated according to
after it had been “completely destroyed.
The Russians had lost 467 tanks and 82
’planes in the previous two days. Berlin
Radio alleged that a Russian force which


Divorce Notices.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES— In Divorce.
TO PHYLLIS ROSLYN GRAHAM late of
Liverpool—TAKE NOTICE that AMOS WIL-
FRED GRAHAM has filed a Petition for
Divorce No. 2436 of 1943 on the ground of
desertion without just cause or excuse for three
years and upwards If you wish to defend you
may enter an appearance at the Divorce Office
Supreme Court King Street Sydney by the
Eighteenth day of October next and obtain a
copy of the petition without charge from
R J M FOORD Solicitor 90 Pitt Street Syd-
ney.— (L.s.) C. K. BODY, Registrar.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES— In Divorce.
TO CHARLES HENRY WOODS late of Sydney
in the State of New South Wales.—TAKE
NOTICE that LILIAN WOODS has filed a
Petition for Divorce No. 2568 of 1942 on the
ground of desertion without reasonable cause
or excuse for three years and upwards If you
wish to defend you may enter an appearance
on or before the Eighth day of November 1943
and obtain a copy of the petition without charge
from W A. MAYNE Solicitor for the Peti-
tioner 28 Martin Place Sydney— (l.s.) C. K.
BODY, Registrar in Divorce.
ay
am
ẁ
a break-through by the Russians at any
point on a heavy scale would scatter his
front to bits and end in a catastrophe of
such magnitude as has not been seen
since August, 1918.
Unfortunately there are no signs of
this so far. According to Moscow, the
Germans are retreating behind an utterly
depopulated devastation in which the
only signs of the existence of some towns
were signboards marking their location
amid the general ruin. The population
had been removed by the enemy save for
a few poor creatures who had taken
to holes and ruins and the forests, to
emerge with the arrival of their Russian
rescuers.
Stalin on Africa
It was here written two months ago
that 1943 would probably be known as
the Napoleonic year of the war, and
events are justifying it. The Germans
are forced to their present policy as much
by what is happening in the Mediter-
ranean as by events in Russia itself.
Despite the carping of Moscow news-
papers, Stalin himself at the end of last
year, in a letter to Cassidy, the A.P.A.
correspondent, showed what the outcome
of the African landings would be. In
answer to the question: What is the
Soviet view of the Allied campaign in
Africa? he wrote:
major importance opening the prospect
of the disintegration of the Italo-German
coalition in the nearest future Nobody
but first-rate organisers could carry out
such serious war operations as the success-
ful landings in Africa It may be confi-
dently said that the effect will not be a
small one, and a certain relief in pressure on
the Soviet Union will result already in the
nearest future But that is not the only
thing that matters. What matters, first
of all, is that, since the campaign in Africa
means that the initiative has passed into
the hands of our allies, the campaign
changes radically the political and war situ-
ation in Europe in favor of the Anglo-
Soviet - American coalition... .That cam-
paign demoralises Hitler’s allies in Europe,
mobilises the anti-Hitler forces of France
....and creates prerequisites for the crea-
tion of a Second Front in Europe nearer
Germany’s vital centres which will be of
decisive importance for organising victory
over Hitlerite, tyranny.
It was obvious then that a Mediterranean
Second Front was considered satisfactory
by the Russian commander-in-chief. And
with its creation imminent in July and
with the enormous strain put on his
resources by the defeat of the U-boat war
and the continued smashing attacks of the
R.A.F. on Germany and its industries,
Hitler has been compelled to undertake
the operation of shortening his front on
a grand scale. Mr. Churchill said on
August 31 that the Anglo-American
bombardment of enemy war industries
had “caused an immense diminution of
Hitler’s war-making capacity, and that
bombardment will steadily increase in
intensity.”
Air Power the Determinant
The determinant in the situation, how-
ever, was thus explained by the Prime
Minister:
By far the greater part of the German
Air Force has been drawn away from the
Russian front and is being engaged and
worn down with ever-growing intensity,
night and day, by British, American and
Canadian airmen.
Fronts cannot exist at all without air
cover. And this factor alone is enough
to explain the German retirement, which
unfortunately has already shortened both
the German front and German communi-
cation lines with Germany by 40 per
cent, in most sectors compared with the
position at the same time last year, thus
multiplying at least fourfold, and in some
important areas more, the usefulness of
every vehicle and aeroplane at the dis-
posal of the enemy, and resulting in an
enormous conservation of his man-
power and fuel and a great reduction in
wear and tear.
The Significance of Facts
And the retreat is being carried out
fighting, on Wellingtonian lines.
The situation was well summed up
early in the week by a London staff
correspondent of “S. M. Herald.” He
wrote that several military commentators
had been sounding warnings and point-
ing out that the Russians had made no
strategic break-through, and that the
present battle “bears, despite the impres-
sive Russians gains, the essential marks
of a war of attrition”:
This is borne out by the proportion of
casualty figures to the numbers of prisoners
and booty. The Russians to last week
claimed only 25,000 prisoners, but put the
number of Germans killed and wounded at
1,000,000. The Germans, with almost no
prisoners on their hands, claimed that they
had inflicted 1,750,000 casualties on the
Russians. So much mutual blood-letting
does not hold out much hope of a quick
decision, and the Russians themselves must
view with concern the prospect of a dis-
tant victory bought at such a terrible price.
Wellington declared often that the best
test of a great general was “to know
when to retreat, and to dare to do it.”
He himself, when he was in command
of the army of final victory in the
Peninsula, fought at Busaco and retreated
to Torres Vedras before he made another
stand. It remains to see whether the
enemy leaders have stood the Welling-
tonian test as the Allies did in the last
great war when an eventual policy of re-
tirement brought them victory.
Forces Compared
Everything depends on reserves and on
the Russian power to concentrate. In
man-power, Stalin’s armies are supposed
to have a great advantage. His forces,
as they were known in July, were be-
lieved to be as follows:
On the Finnish front (General Metskov),
25 Russian divisions, opposed to General
Dietl with 20 divisions.
In the Leningrad sector (General Govo-
rov), 30 divisions, opposed to an unknown
number of German divisions, believed to be
about 25-30.
In the Volkhov-Velikiye Luki sector,
Marshal Timoshenko, with 40 divisions,
against General Kiichler, 29 divisions.
On the fronts from Velikiye Luki to the
Azov Sea, Generals Konev, Golikov and
Vatutin command three sectors with about
150 divisions, against Marshals Von Kluge
and Mannstein, with 120 divisions.
General Tulienev, with 25 divisions,
against General Kleist, with 20 divisions,
in the Kuban and Crimea.
So the Russians have round about 270
divisions opposed to 219 German and
satellite divisions. And Russian man-
power potential is, or should be, two to
one that of Germany and its allies, omit-
ting the attrition to Russian populations
and the usage which Germany can make
of conscripted industrial populations
from conquered countries.
Against which must be set off the
enormous demands of German defence
against air attack, which must be absorb-
ing the time of millions, and the man-
power requirements to hold down occu-
pied countries, to conduct the sea war
and to provide defence against attack
along 3000 miles of Mediterranean coast-
line.
The scales are now heavily weighted on
the side of the hard-fighting Russians as
they are on the side of the rest of the
Allies, but it is too much to hope for
cheap or easy victory, unless the R.A.F.,
backed by the growing might of the
United States Air Force, causes internal
collapse in Germany.
Even a swift break into the Balkans
from the Italian zone would scarcely
bring victory i» 1943, with winter only a
little more than two months away.
Canada's Effort.
There is much misconception about the
military part which Canadian forces are
playing in the war. The fact is
that, apart from a production programme
which has had an enormous influence on
the war, Canada’s part has been that best
adapted to Canadian resources and
geography.
In the early part of the war it was
necessary to have a widespread base,
fairly adjacent to Europe, in which to
train the Empire Air Force. Literally,
there was no room to do this in Britain,
and Canada was the natural location.
The Canadians have made a grand job
of it.
Next, so little was Britain defended
after Dunkirk and so difficult the task
of training a large army quickly in
bombed England, where the movements
of a single division or so would disorgan-
ise the roads of whole counties and de-
stroy quantities of food and fodder which
Britain could ill afford to lose, that it was
necessary to add as many Canadian
divisions as possible to the resources of
the Empire available for use in Europe.
This was not a matter of mere Canadian
desire to serve in Europe but a matter of
sheer necessity at the time.
Thirdly, one of the needs of convoy
protection was that the northern routes
should be used as much as possible. And
the men best inured to Arctic conditions
were the Canadians. Their job on the
North Circle route across the Atlantic has
been one of the wonders of the war, the
more remarkable because Canada began
the war with little or no navy, and has
built up a powerful small ship force,
complete with complements.
Fourthly, the war with Japan brought
a new burden. With the hundreds of
islands which lie along the Alaskan and
Canadian Pacific coast the defence of
that part of the Allied territory is no
small responsibility.
It is little realised that Prince Rupert is
only 400 miles further from Yokohama
than Pearl Harbor, and that, in the
Aleutians, the enemy was as close to the
great Canadian naval base and railway
terminal in the Vancouver region, a vital
factor in North American defence, as
he was in the Solomons to Sydney and
Newcastle.
Lastly, Canadian troops of certain
types have been chosen for landing units,
because civilian life has most fitted
them for that purpose, and because the
necessity to bring them into the Euro-
pean zone early has made them veterans
in training.
A lot of them are in Europe because
they are the troops best suited to face
Scandinavian conditions of land and sea
should they be needed. Canada is doing
as big a job, in relation to her popula-
tion, as any nation in the war.
In brief:
In April the Allies dropped only 10,000 tons
of bombs in Germany; and the American in-
gredient in the bombing was almost negligible.
In June they dropped 19,055 tons —3255 tons
laid by the U.S.A.F. Apart from minelaying,
train strafing, local dogfights and the operations
in Sicily and at sea, 945 tons of bombs short
of twice their April quota.
He * * *
The R.A.F. in the seven months ended July
31 dropped 70,000 tons of bombs —nearly 7000
tons more than the Luftwaffe delivered in
western Europe in the whole four years of war.
Record for the months immediately past:
April, 10,000 tons; May, 12,500 tons; June,
15.000 tons; July,, 16,000 tons; August, 17,000
tons. These figures are outside those of the
United States Air Force, which has shown grow-
ing figures in each succeeding month.
* * * *
The air attack on Burma reached a new
zenith in the past few days, and was mainly
upon communications. Railways and river
systems were reported to be badly disorganised.
A week of intensive bombing ended with an
attack on the Nicobar Islands, which guard the
northern mouth of the Malacca Strait.
* * * *
Tokyo Radio on Sept. 1 reported a U.S. raid
on Marcus Island, in the Bonin Group, about
1250 miles south-east of Tokyo. The island,
which is an outpost patrol point of Japan s
naval defence perimeter, was raided previously
on March 4.
* * * *
The Germans reported at the week-end that
an attempt to land commandos on L’Ouessant,
an island to the west of Brest, had been aban-
doned when detected by German naval craft.
One ship was alleged to have reached the
beach. No British report.
* * * *
According to Swiss Radio, all British
prisoners of war in Malaya and Borneo are
being transferred to Japan. British War
Minister Grigg confirms the report that British
prisoners in Italy have gone to Germany.
But the Italian Government has given a curious
assurance that none of the prisoners has been
transferred since the fall of the Fascist regime.
* * * *
U.S. Navy announces the sinking by two
U.S. aircraft off the Italian coast of one of
Italy’s two largest liners, Conte di Savoia,
50.000 tons.


“BILLABONG”
WINDMILLS
HAVE
AUTOMATIC
OILING AND
ENCLOSED
GEARS
THE BASIS FOR
EFFICIENCY
&ID
no
pry.
391-403 BOURKE STREET, MELBOURNE.
324-330 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
MAKERS OF PUMPING EQUIPMENT FOR OVER 70 YEARS.
Queensland
Insurance Go.
Ltd.
Head Office:
Pitt & Bridge Streets,
Sydney.
The Largest
Australian Company
Transacting
Fire, Marine, Accident, House-
holders’ Comprehensive, Workers’
Compensation, Boiler Explosion,
Machinery Breakdown, Aviation,
etc.
YOU CAN STOP
THAT BACKACHE
But You Must First HELP YOUR KIDNEYS
to Flush Out Acid Poisons
Recognise backache as a signal that there
is something wrong with your kidneys.
Your kidneys contain 15 miles of tiny tubes
iand filters. Every three minutes ail the blood
In your body passes through these tubes to be
filtered of waste matter and acid poisons.
(Unless your kidneys remove about 500 grains
of dangerous Impurities, these tubes become
blogged, causing backache, leg pains, loss of
pep and energy, getting up nights, lumbago,
swollen feet and ankles, pufflness under tne
(eyes, headaches, rheumatic pains and dizzi-
ness. Frequent or scanty passages with
Smarting and burning also show there is
Something wrong with your kidneys or bladder.
Don’t delay and don’t experiment. Go to
your chemist or store for DOAN’S BACK-
ACHE KIDNEY PILLS. Use them faithfully
and give your kidneys the help they need
before it is too late. Millions of users the
world over have had quick, satisfying relief.
Do as vour neighbour does —take DOAN la
JJACKACHE KIDNEY PILLS tO-day.
SPORTING NOTIONS
(Conducted by "PILOT")
Katanga will thoroughly test the three-
year-olds in the Chelmsford Stakes. He
is a great weight-carrier, his wins includ-
ing the A.J.C. Final Handicap with 10.1
(7.0 limit), and in my opinion a good han-
dicap is a severer test for a heavily-
weighted horse than a weight-for-age
race. He will meet Moorland only a
pound worse than Epsom terms, each
having a 71b. penalty next Saturday.
Moorland easily downed Mayfowl at
Rosehill, and on Hobartville Stakes run-
ning War Eagle, who is unpenalised,
should be superior to Flight and Tribal
at nine furlongs. As Katanga has beaten
Yaralla at nine, seven and six furlongs
it seems too much to expect the latter to
turn the tables even if the going is quite
to his liking. Main Topic, who at his
last start showed surprising dash for a
stayer, may still be a trifle new for the
task.
If the Metropolitan prospects of Two’s
Company are as bright as her supporters
believe she has an excellent chance of
proving it in next Saturday’s Spring Han-
dicap. In that she has her Metropolitan
weight, 7.13, and will be meeting Rim-
veil, Abspear, It’s Funny, Eureka, Lam-
beth and Ballot on exactly Metropolitan
terms, Gauntlet 31b. and Colonel Post
41b. better, and Amberspear lib. worse.
There is no doubt as to 11 furlongs being
well within her compass, and though she
failed badly at Rosehill a drop of 14lb.
should make a great difference to her.
* * * *
The Sydney Turf Club’s programme is
progressive and comprehensive, including
a new racecourse, improvements to stands
on any course or courses that may be
taken over, better —and much needed —
tote facilities, and high-class catering.
First consideration is evidently to be
given public comfort, which will be
generally appreciated, but may tend to
such heavy commitments for courses and
improvements that owners, trainers and
breeders may have to wait much longer
than they anticipate for their golden era
in prize-money.
* * * *
Although there is talk of Wednesday
racing being- resumed, would it not be
wiser to wait until the end of the war is
in sight before attempting to force that
issue? Restoration of all Saturdays and
public holidays would be enough to go
on with.
* * * •
Modulation showed sufficient dash in
his recent race at Rosehill to suggest he
will be in form for autumn racing, but
whether he is entitled to his present
prominence in Epsom quotations is a
matter of opinion. In the autumn he did
well against those of his own age, but
did not shine when opposed to older
horses in w.f.a. races. In March he won
a three-year-old handicap at Randwick
with 8.11, but three weeks later was
beaten by Veiled Threat, Yaralla and
Katanga in the Chipping Norton Plate.
He then won the St. Leger, and at his
next start was a moderate fourth to
Yaralla, Gold Salute and Riverton in
the All-Aged Plate. That effort was to
some extent excusable because he had
raced at a mile and three-quarters only
a week earlier, but still, on form, he is
not thrown into the Epsom by any
means.
* * * *
Double betting lists indicate that two
mares, Cream Puff and Lady Hamilton,
are Metropolitan possibilities. They have
done well at a mile and a quarter at
Randwick. Cream Puff scored at that
distance in a Trial Handicap, and subse-
quently ran third with 7.4 in the Winter
Stakes, one mile five furlongs, won by
Shining Night, 7.13 —there is now 141 b.
between them —while Lady Hamilton,
with 7.2, dead-heated Wellesley (7.5) for
the A.J.C. City Handicap. A week later
Wellesley, with 7.2, was beaten a half-
neck in the Sydney Cup. Both mares
are working nicely, without doing any-
thing sensational, but within the next
month they will probably do enough rac-
ing to give a fair idea as to whether they
are up to Metropolitan standard.
For the third year in succession Fox-
bridge (sire of Shining Night) was the
most successful sire in New Zealand, his
progeny winning 37 races, scoring 70
minor places and taking £21,225 in prize-
money. In five seasons, taking in his Aus-
tralian winners, he has been credited with
£83,500. In number of wins in Maori-
land last season he was beaten by Mr.
Standfast 44 and Bulafidshar 40. Fox-
bridge is by Foxlaw from Bridgemouth.
Ken Austin’s colt John o’ London
(Solicitor General-Raphis, sister to Phar
Lap), who, according to present intentions,
is to run in the A.J.C. Derby, did particu-
larly well during the winter, and his
trainer, F. McCarthy, is thoroughly satis-
fied with him. John o’ London, who is
to race at Ashburton next Saturday,
started twice last season, running second
in one race and easily winning the other,
the CJ.C. (Christchurch) Champagne
Stakes, with 8.10, in 1.12 for six furlongs.
* =i= * *
At the Melbourne Cup meeting there
will be no race of less than £lOOO, but
the club receives entrance and accept-
ance fees.
* * * *
Nominations for the A.J.C. spring
meeting close on Monday next, 14th
instant.
* * * *
Hurdlers are generally out of place in
a Melbourne Cup field, but intentions are
that stable-mates Claudette and Saul,
winners of the last two G.N. Hurdles,
shall be runners for the two-miler this
spring. Claudette is one of the most
fancied horses for the race, but opinions
differ whether she is entitled to be so
high in the market. Trainer D. Mcßae,
while recognising that his mare did not
defeat a Cup field in the Winter Handi-
cap at her last start, considers her one of
the best stayers he has seen. Saul might
be too old to add the Melbourne Cup to
his Australian Cup and G.N. Hurdle
wins, but Mcßae has found in his experi-
ence with David horses that they are in
their prime from six to eight years.
Claudette is six and Saul, also by David,
eight.
Action firmed considerably for the
Caulfield Cup following wins at his first
two starts, and unlucky defeat by Law-
rence in the Chatsworth Plate did not
alter his market position materially. His
programme, however, has not been
planned beyond the Caulfield Guineas.
His owner opines that a Cnp run is not
in the best interests of a three-year-old,
and Action will need to win or run really
well in races leading up to the Guineas,
and in the Guineas itself, to ensure a
Caulfield Cup start. Being a gelding he
is ineligible for the Victoria Derby.
Heart’s Desire, from the same stable, is
dong well in the early stages of her Cups
preparation. A kick received while
spelling contributed to her failures last
autumn, but she has recovered com-
pletely, and is expected to return to her
form of last spring, when she finished
second in the Caulfield and third in the
Melbourne Cup.
Tranquil Star, Caulfield Cup winner
and w.f.a. star last season, is working
soundly enough to indicate another suc-
cessful campaign. She has her share of
weight in the Cups, and her w.f.a. tasks
may be harder if Skipton returns to his
best, but she is a great mare on her day,
and it is doubtful if she has; ever looked
better. With winnings of £17,690 she is
fourth on the list of great stake-winning
mares. Those ahead of her are Desert
Gold £23,133, Furious £20,172 and
Carlita £17,830.
* * * *
Auckland is a very much smaller city
than Sydney, and has not the same
number of racegoers, but for nine days’
racing in the recently-closed season the
Auckland R.C. paid over £200,000 in
taxes.
* * * *
Kincardine (Gay Crusader-Sundrilla)
sire of Kindergarten, died in Maoriland
last month, and Valkyrian, sire of Kin-
dergarten’s dam, Valadore, a few weeks
earlier. Other stallion deaths reported
from Maoriland are those of Defoe (sire
of Defaulter) and Bronze Eagle. Kin-
cardine, who was unbeaten at three years
in England, was a poor foal-getter when
tried there at the stud, and was sold for
18gns. at Doncaster in 1933. Subsequently
bought by W. Clark, of Opou Stud,
Poverty Bay, the change did so much
for Kincardine that he sired several foals
in the Dominion.
* * * *
At the S.A.J.C. (Adelaide) annual
general meeting the remarks of one
member reflected to some extent on the
committee, and brought from the chair-
man the reply: “It is not always the hen
that cackles the most that lays the biggest
e gg-” That applies elsewhere.
* * * r)
T. Carey, who won the English Derby
on Straight Deal, is a recruit from the
pony ranks. He was the most successful
jockey at the Pony Turf Club meetings,
which, owing to the war, ceased some
time ago. He rode at them for
Straight Deal’s owner, Miss D. Paget.
He had a close go in the Derby, his mount
defeating Umiddad only a head. On
Derby Day he also won the important
two-year-old race the Coventry Stakes on
Miss Paget’s Orestes. Up to the beginning
of last week Carey had ridden 32
winners to Richards’s 35.
* * * *
There is a deal of speculation as to who
is likely to be secretary of the Sydney
Turf Club. The bill provides that a
member of the civil service is tempor-
arily to be the first appointee, and it
might be safe to bet that, if he shows
average fitness for the position, he will,
with probable Government backing,
continue to hold it, assisted by one or
other of Sydney’s secretaries likely to be
at a loose end after the S.T.C. takes over.
* * * *
The tallest horse in the recent English
Derby field was High Chancellor-
-16. 3T He was closely followed by Mer-
chant Navy, 16.3. Seven others were over
16, and the four smallest were Straight
Deal (winner), Umiddad (second), Pink
Flower and Kingsway, each 15.2^.
Miscellaneous.
In the V.F.L. semi-final at Carlton
Fitzroy’s sharpshooters snapped five
quick goals in the first quarter; Carlton
wilted under pressure, and Fitzroy added
another eight goals to win 13.16 to 5.13.
’Roy will now meet the winner of Rich-
mond v. Essendon.
* * * *
Manly v. East drew about the biggest
Rugby Union crowd this season, but was
a walkover for the Villagers. With five
substitute players East lacked cohesion
and Manly piled on points to win 31-3.
Randwick scored three tries to one
against West, but West kept the ball
among the forwards, and Lanser’s trusty
boot swung the scales for his side to
triumph 12-11. East must now beat West
to oppose Manly in the “grand” final.
* * * *
The Patrick-Bennell bout at Sydney
Stadium was worth nothing like the fancy
prices demanded and meekly paid. Ben-
nell turned it up at the end of the seventh
round. He had jarred his right hand, and
it was certainly bruised and swollen after
the fight. But the mishap made no dif-
ference ; Patrick seemed certain to score
a knockout any time after he had
Bennell’s nose and mouth bleeding in the
second. The headier of the pair, he was
faster than the nine-pounds-heavier man,
and much the stiffer puncher. Bennell
came into the picture when he shot
two heavy rights to the ribs in the
fifth —remarkable considering his later
explanation that the fist had been put out
of action in the first. Bennell took delivery
of many solid punches in the sixth, and
in a toe-to-toe rally in the seventh stopped
powerful lefts with his chin. He wouldn’t
have lasted much longer.
Wearing smoked glasses when he re-
turned from Libya, Bobby Clarke was
expected to retire from the ring, but he
keeps (or is kept) going. He lost another
decision to Ron McLaughlin at Leich-
hardt. Announced to be a pound lighter
than the ex-A.I.F. warrior, McLaughlin
looked much heavier. He was certainly
much stronger, and he bullocked his way
to a win on points.
FOR RAMDWICK.
(Before acceptances.)
By "PILOT."
Trial Handicap: Domineer, 1 ;
Barrenjoey, 2.
Novice Handicap: Gryphon, 1 ;
Kookaburra, 2 ; Bright Spot, 3.
Tramway Handicap : Prince, 1 ;
Hall Stand, 2 ; Magi or Arahura, 3.
Three-year-old Handicap: West
Point, 1 ; Denton, 2; Enthuse, 3.
Chelmsford Stakes: Katanga, 1 ;
War Eagle, 2 ; Moorland, 3.
Spring Handicap: Two’s Com-
pany, 1 ; Chatham’s Choice, 2;
Gauntlet, 3.
Welter Handicap: Kiaree, 1 ;
Pinero, 2 ; Nightbeam or Haripur,
3.


Women's Letters
From Sydney
When the war burst on a world that
for the most part had not put its um-
brella up there were already in Sydney
hundreds of men and women struggling
with the intricacies of A.R.P. For weeks
they had been going to after-work lec-
tures, or, if they were women with some
leisure, they had been attending morning
and afternoon classes. But the A.R.P.
of those days was just the kindergarten
of the Civil Defence Service of today.
Last Saturday, through Sydney streets,
there was spirited parade of fifteen thou-
sand men and women all playing a part
in the defence of their State.
Here were fire-fighters, wardens, decon-
tamination squads, fully-manned mobile
canteens, surgical units, ambulances and
engineering units. To the onlooker who
had graduated in the perfumes of poison
gas, the gas-proofing of a room and the
biffing of incendiaries and had a certi-
ficate to prove it there welled up a pride
in being even a poor relation of such a
fine brotherhood. Grey-uniformed, 300
women of the Fire Auxiliary stepped out,
competent and confident. An asbestos-
suited (might he be called soot-suited?)
fire-fighter won the gaze of -admiration.
Lord Wakehurst took the salute at N.E.S.
headquarters in Macquarie-street. Over
the evening’s radio Herbert Morrison, of
England, Mayor La Guardia, of New
York, and Australia’s Minister Lazzarini
cheered on the good work.
Forerunners of the new Liberty Loan
soon to be launched, the savings posters
by Technical College students vigorously
proclaim the need of money in the build-
ing-up of munitions. The posters are
displayed in David Jones’s on the fourth
floor. Near the screen on which a mighty
warship topped by a cloud of fighter
’planes seemed to bear down, indomit-
able, on a waiting foe, a small girl the
other afternoon was looking with
placid content at the new spring frock
mother and a salesgirl were trying on her.
It was the moral that adorned the tale.
There was no look of bomb terror in
young Australia’s eyes. The land she
lives in has, by the mercy of Providence,
the epic courage of Australian and Allied
service men, been kept free of the ruthless
raider. “What Price Australia?” demand
eye-arresting letters, below which is a
map of this island continent. There are
bold silhouettes of soldier heads; there are
targets with the bullet hitting the bull’s-
eye. There is the torch of Liberty ; there’s
a bird hovering over nest eggs marked
bonds. In short, the visitor will be hard-
ened indeed who can look upon that dis-
play and not rush off and buy at least
a £lO bond.
Big tennis gave its devotees a few
hours’ surcease from war-time cares at
the White City on Saturday. Play was
given an international flavor by the ap-
pearance of Corporal Frank Kovacs, the
American, a gay fellow who won the
hearts of all no less by his perfect court
demeanor than by his superb play. Six
feet three of whipcord suppleness, he
packs a terrific wallop into services and
drives, clips the sidelines with the most
delicate of backhand shots, is a veritable
tornado in doubles, applauds his oppo-
nent’s out-of-the-bag winners and has a
happy smile that won’t come off. Lieut.
Adrian Quist was a doughty opponent
at singles but was forced to bow to the
American’s extra zip. Corporal John
Bromwich, defying malaria, partnered his
old Davis Cup doubles collaborator Quist
to beat Kovacs and Jack Crawford in
a sparkling exhibition. Over £l3OO was
raised, and this will be divided between
the American Centre and the Comforts
.’Fund (N.S.W. division).
The girl in the poem who cried “Cur-
few must not ring tonight, curfew shall
not ring to night” must have been a
—direct ancestress of Australia’s distin-
guished visitor, Eleanor Roosevelt. The
wife of the President of the United States
of America is vibrant with energy, and
calling it a day never seems to enter her
head till there is nothing else to be done,
nowhere else to go. Last Saturday the
smiling lady, all blue-grey eyes and blue-
grey American Red Cross uniform, after
a day of calls and receptions and inter-
views that might have staggered a Her-
cules, came up smiling, bland and digni-
fied for the official dinner at Government
jHouse, which was followed by a recep
(ion of great size.
■ Canberra was all brightness, wattle and
spring flowers for Mrs. Roosevelt’s visit,
which commenced on Friday afternoon.
When her ’plane arrived at Fairbairn
aerodrome, Canberra, about half-past
three, the wife of America’s President
was welcomed by Lord and Lady Cowrie,
Priminister Curtin and Federal Ministers.
Also to greet her were throngs of inter-
ested and excited populace and a battery
of cameramen. U.S. Minister in Aus-
tralia Nelson T. Johnson and General
Eichelberger (he on behalf of General
MacArthur) had already met and wel-
comed her in Sydney. After arrival at
Government House, press interviews and
the inevitable broadcast, plus converse
with notables and chat with some bright-
faced Land Army girls working in the
grounds, filled in the time before dinner.
Very important in Saturday’s pro-
gramme was the State lunch in Mrs.
Roosevelt’s honor at Parliament House.
In reply to the Prime Minister’s welcome,
America’s First Lady spoke, the rhythm
of her speech slow, her words simple.
“Pause and effect,” Nellie Veitch’s gospel
of public speaking (and innumerable are
the speakers she trained), would appear to
be also Mrs. Roosevelt’s. She knows the
value of pause, and her phrasing is most
effective. High marks for Mr. Curtin,
too, for not using the declamatory tone.
The afternoon’s big “do” was the recep-
tion given by the U.S. Minister in the
Hotel Canberra. In between functions
was an endless procession of calls, among
them one at the U.S. Legation, one on
the U.S. naval personnel at Acton and
one on Mr. Curtin at the Lodge. It was
from here the visitor held a long-distance
conversation with Mrs. Curtin.
Mrs. Roosevelt’s Sydney itinerary more
than matches her Canberra round. It
includes visits to the American Centre, the
American Red Cross Centre, the Ameri-
can Officers’ Club in Elizabeth Bay, the
Nurses’ Club a reception in Sydney’s
Mayoress’s rooms and a gathering of
women in the Town Hall, when a film
showing British women at war work,
specially brought by Mrs. Roosevelt, will
be shown. In addition there are visits to
military hospitals, the Anzac Buffet, Syd-
ney Hospital ro inspect the blood bank
and a dinner party at Government House,
followed by a small reception.
Spring is in the air, and orchids are
unfolding their delicate or sinisfer beauty
to the moon. The Red Cross head-
quarters younger group is working up
widespread enthusiasm over the Orchid
Society’s show. This opens tomorrow,
and will continue for three days in the
Y.M.C.A. hall. The Red-Crossers and
the Y-Emmers share the takings.
Stephanie Edye is acquiring quite a
ballet wardrobe. Last Friday night, when
she joined forces with the Independents
in a recital for the King George Fund
for Sailors, she had six changes of cos-
tume —all but one of which had been
made by her mother. The exception was
one like a wind-blown double fuchsia,with
a skirt of flounce after flounce of cerise
lightly edged with green and a long,
supple bodice of red. Wearing this,
Stephanie danced the “Buleraisa,” a
dande all swift, sinuous action and the
click of castanets.
A black velvet frock lined with
red satin, its little bolero corded with
gold, clothed a somewhat tempestuous
lady of Cordova. The second part of
the programme was given by the Inde-
pendents group. Phillip Johnson’s one-
act comedy “Heaven on Earth” was
directed by Doris Fitton. The Mirrabooka
singers, Margaret Lament and Wilma
Jones, added the charm of their voices.
Captain Henry C. Curmi, Commis-
sioner for Malta in Australia, will talk
about that dauntless little island and the
great work it has done in the Battle for
the Mediterranean on September 8,
Malta’s National Day. Captain Curmi
will show recent pictures of Malta. Dur-
ing the evening Stanley Clarkson will
sing. The Royal Empire Society is
arranging the evening, and the Red Cross
Society will benefit. The Assembly Hall
in Margaret-street will house the lecture.
The R. Wilsons, of Oberon, went back
to their snowy fastness at the end of last
week. For two months Mrs. Wilson has
been on the sick list, staying at the Carl-
ton in between visits to Macquarie-strect.
Recovered now, she returns to take over
her chieftainess duties of the Oberon
C.W.A.
From Melbourne
Sunday became a red-letter day for
Melbourne when Mrs. Roosevelt, almost
unheralded, arrived by ’plane from Can-
berra, where she had spent a tremen-
dously active Saturday. Pausing only to
say a brief “How d’ ye do” to the vice-
regal Dugans, the Lord Mayor and Lady
Mayoress of Melbourne and Army, Navy
and Air Force heads, America’s First
Lady set off on another crowded itinerary
of camps, hospitals, Red Cross establish-
ments and the like. Outstanding impres-
sion Melbourne women got of the dis-
tinguished visitor as she swept through
our city was of abounding vitality and a
limitless capacity for being interested. She
is a very accomplished speaker, and her
voice is remarkable in its variety of in-
flections.
The first of September in these parts,
though alleged by some to be the first day
of spring, doesn’t get the greeting that
the first of May does in Europe. No one
has yet been known to ask to be wakened
early to be Queen of the September, and
in Melbourne any such move is decidedly
unlikely, as getting out of bed will be a
chilly business for many weeks yet. How-
ever, a few imaginative souls are swear-
ing that the sun is warmer and the grass
greener because officially this is the spring-
time. Walkers through the Botanic
Gardens taking the air for the luncheon
break have seen the first swallows on the
wing pretending to duck themselves in
the ponds and just missing hats in the
playful way swallows have.
It is cheering to those who feared old
age had crept upon them or that civilisa-
tion had softened their fibres to hear
meteorologists declare that the August
just passed has been the coldest experi-
enced since great-great-grandfather set
foot in Victoria and records began to be
kept. The snowfall at the beginning of
the month was, of course, a great event,
and the temperatures recorded show that
thosb who shivered and went to bed with
socks on had something to shiver over.
One of the most promising of Mel-
bourne’s young violinists is 19-year-old
Joan Haslam, daughter of the A. J.
Haslams, who wielded her bow to benefit
Red Cross funds on Sunday. The trio
made up of herself and two brothers,
who are ’cellist and pianist respectively,
lacked pianist brother Dallas, who is on
service, so his place was taken by Bere-
nice Lehmann, another talented lass.
Joan, pictured here by Ruskin, is in her
final year of the Mus. Bac. course.
The group that works for Free
Kindergarten needs behind the Silver
Door (which marks the entrance to a
waste products depot where nothing can
escape utilisation) is laying ambitious
plans for further fund raising. As a sale
of coupon-free goods last year was suc-
cessful to the tune of some £5OO in spite
of hurried preparations, it is planned to
double that figure this Christmas by mak-
ing a six-months-long effort to collect
stocks. Members of the auxiliary in-
clude many needlewomen who are busily
at work on handmade clothes and toys
of the sort which attracted so many
buyers last year.
A good band and a very good supper
made the dinner dance got up to augment
Junior Red Cross funds great fun and a
financial success. Organisers were
those enthusiasts who call themselves
“The Willing Workers.” The dance
was given for the American baby en-
trant, as president Mrs. Sophie Graves,
an American, is a member of the
U.S.W.A.C. Committee. Members felt
that the show was thus a tribute to a
good ally as well as a brave stroke for
Red Cross.
Heidelberg, which has elected Mrs. N.
G. Ibbott as its Mayor, has been concerned
over the proper method of addressing
its new chief magistrate. “Madame
Mayor” won the day, though some nark
said the title sounded tautological.
The second patriotic concert in the
Town Hall on Thursday attracted a dif-
ferent sort of crowd from that which
usually attends symphony concerts. The
music had ballet links, with “The Gods
Go a-Begging” as the opening item and
Tschaikowsky’s Fifth, from which comes
the music for “Les Presages,” at the end.
The other item was Grieg’s A minor
Pianoforte Concerto, material from which
was used by the Borovansky group for
ballet last year. Una Bourne was soloist
for the concerto and received a great
ovation. Government House sent a party,
the Lady Mayoress was there, and vio-
linist Thomas Matthews and pianist Joyce
Greer took busmen’s holidays in the
audience.
With the price of tickets on the guinea
line, filling the Comedy Theatre for the
performance of Darya Collins and Edmee
Monod looked like no easy job, ballet-
minded though this community is, and
organisers took the view that it would
require some solid work. But with the
Clapp lady and a very willing committee
at work difficulties vanished away, and
Red Cross funds stand to benefit by an
extremely substantial amount. Audience
was enthusiastic about the new interpre-
tations of the Dutch dancing pair,
assisted by very effective costumes, some
made since arrival on these shores to
their own designs. They had been wel-
comed by a small party at Menzies on
Thursday, given by the Netherlands
Minister and Baroness van Aerssen
Beyeren where cocktails with Dutch
names awaited guests.
Yet another pleasant surprise for the
musical with the swelling of Red Cross
funds as its aim is the pianoforte recital
Hephzibah Menuhin, otherwise Mrs.
Lindsay Nicholas, is giving in the Town
Hall on September 15. Since her marriage
Mrs. Nicholas has been living in the
Western District, and has made no con-
cert appearances, though she frequently
plays with various musical groups in pri-
vate recitals, and has kept up her interest
and skill in spite of the counter claims of
small son Kronrad, born last year.
Long after black paper and crisscross
window tapes have ceased to interest
citizens, the cream of the National Gal-
lery’s art collection is coming quietly
out of hiding. While danger lurked the
most expensive treasures were stored in
safety or distributed among small coun-
try galleries. Now that they are coming
back on their home walls again Gallery
officials are taking the opportunity to
put them in groups according to periods.
Thus Gainsborough’s and Reynolds’s
beauties will be lined up together, and
Tiepolo’s Cleopatra will look at Renais-
sance Madonnas instead of the
eighteenth-century ladies she was asso-
ciated with before.
The death of Mrs. Elizabeth Taylor
breaks a link with early Melbourne and
the city’s earlier art history. Mrs. Taylor
was the wife of Captain Charles Taylor,
a well-known figure in shipping circles.
She 'was born here in 1860 and was
among the first students of the National
Gallery Art School, exhibiting under her
maiden name, Elizabeth Ball. The artistic
flair has descended to Stephanie Taylor,
her youngest daughter, who is chatelaine
of the Velasquez Galleries and one of
Melbourne’s lecturers on art.
Art shows of various groups and the
crowds they draw give abundant evidence
that war hasn’t yet squelched our aesthetic
senses. Norman Mac George, expatiating
on surrealism and symbolism and such
developments, dreW a surprisingly large
audience to the Velasquez Galleries. He
took his examples from the Contem-
porary Art Group’s show. At the
Athenteum Gallery a satisfying number of
those interested turned up to see the
much more orthodox show of the Inde-
pendent Group. A great deal of the work
in this exhibition was by women members.
An attractive platform personality isn’t
the lot of all young soloists, but Lyndall
Hendrickson, who made her first im-
portant appearance in this city on a re-
cent Saturday, has this advantage. Slim
and dark, all her movements have a grace
which isn’t at all easy to achieve on a
concert platform. Frock chosen to grace
the occasion was a bouffant blue one (a
billowing skirt seems to be practically a
with young musicians), picked
out with pink bows. Admirers did their
best to agree with the color scheme by
presenting the artist with great bunches
of pink carnations after her performance.
Neither winter weather nor an urge to
see how election figures were going dis-
suaded the usual hallful of music-lovers
from attending.


RUPTURE
. NO PADS—NO SPRINGS
HCTS
LIKE THE HHnO
The latest invention of Dr.
L. Barrere is the result of 40
years’ practice and improve-
ments. Stupendous success
of new method of control.
The NEO-BAR RERE acts
like the hand when placed
Hat upon the .orifice. You
will at once without
effort and in all move-
ments hold the intes-
tine in its cavity.
Write To-day for
FREE LITERATURE.
BARBEBE DISTRIBUTION CO.
(llcpf. 20), 343 ELIZABETH ST., SYDNEY.
BRAN DALI FRA
rPENS
Every point
guaranteed
do not experiment with imitations.
a BEANDADB* * CO, U 4. BIRMiaaUAM. EN«
The Federal Mutual Insurance Company
of Australia Limited
FIRE, MARINE AND ACCIDENT INSURANCES
EFFECTED AT LOWEST CURRENT RATES
Prompt and liberal settlements of claims.
Directors: THOMAS A. MAGNEY, Chairman; F. W. Duesbury; Sydney Sampson.
R. A. MANZIE, Managing Director. S. T, RUTTER, General Manager.
’Phone (three lines) : 87361. Stanches in All States. 129 Pitt Street, Sydney.
ẅ
r-
m
■
111
In Quantity Production on the
“FREDLINE”
Vertical Turret Lathe
The "Fredline" Vertical Turret Lathe
is a production lathe especially suitable
for producing Nuts, Short Set Screws and
Small Bolts. The "Fredline" will handle special sizes
and special lengths in non-ferrous metals up to
I in. dia. bar, including mild steel up to iin. dia.
bar. Also does Die Screwing and Tapping work
expeditiously.
Maximum speed 2,250 r.p.m. Dynamic Balancing
ensures vibrationless running at all speeds.
Sole selling Agents, All States:
WM. ADAMS & CO. LTD.
Sydney, Melbourne, Brisbane, Adelaide, Perth
Important features are:
• All moving parts
DYNAMICALLY BALANCED
O Revolving turret has 8-tool
set-up
© A girl can operate it
© Quick and easy to set up
FOR IMMEDIATE DELIVERY
The "Fredline" has definite possibilities
for you. Ask for full details.
Manufactured by
m
w
MACHINE TOOL
M A N U FACTG. C 0. PTY. LTD.
BRIDGE ST. Valley
BRISBANE
Established 1920.
PROVIDES THE SAME COMFOKT AND SAFETY AS CITY SEWERAGE
WITHOUT ANY WATER SUPPLY.
Besides Typhoid, Dysentery and serious diseases, many minor affections such as
Septic Cuts, Sore Eyes, Chills and Colds can be traced to unhygienic closets.
THE HYGEIA DISSOLVENATOR
IS A COMPLETE SELF-CONTAINED SANITARY SYSTEM IN ITSELF AND
IS NOT JUST A MODIFIED CLOSET PAN,
All matter is dissolved and sterilised in the machine and runs off into the soil.
It eliminates closet pans and saves sanitary rates.
IT PREVENTS THE SPREAD OF THE BLOWFLY PEST.
There is no emptying or unpleasant yobs. Any handyman t-*n instal it.
NO SMELLS. NO FLIES. NO GERMS.
Approved by the Hoard of Health and is fully guaranteed. Over 2300 in use.
Write or telephone for illustrated pamphlet.
HYGEIA SANITARY Co. Pty. Ltd Telephone ' 81053.
Price, £l7/17/6 f.o.r. SYDNEY, including 121% Sales Tax.
Plus 25/- war surcharge; crating, if necessary, 10/9 extra-
Obtainable direct from us or all leading stores, pastoral firms, etc. •
Queensland Pastoral Supplies, Ltd.. Brisbane: Harris, Scarfe, Ltd,,. Adelaide; Victonan
Producers Co-op. Co., Ltd.. Melbourne; R. P. Mclnerney and Co., Ltd., Peith.
SMOKE-OH!
“U.S. Designs for Motor-cars That Will Fly.”
—“D.T.”
That’ll make it tough for the girl who
insists on walking home.
•j- •!* I*
“He was one of those men who are deter-
mined to be different.”— Story.
F’rinstance, he always wore his suit on
top of his overcoat.
•F *F *F *F
“Mae West has divorced her husband, whom
for years she insisted she had never married.”
—Movie item.
Perhaps he came up and saw her one
time too often.
•F *F *F *F
“Small Milkmen Operate at Loss, Inquiry
Told.” —“Daily Mirror” headline.
Others water their stock and carry on.
•F 4* •i' »F
“My appearance is spoiled by my eyes.”
— Woman's mag.
At least no one can describe her as a
perfect sight.
Why I Never Joined' the
W.R.A.N.S.
(1) I wanted to think for myself and
not be led round by a bunch of sisters.
(2) I’ve never danced with a man in
my life and don’t intend to start.
(3) I hate the thought of sleeping in a
dormitory and having lots of girls around
when I go to bed,
(4) I don’t feel that the W.R.AN.S.
uniform would suit me.
(5) I am a man.
Lock.
•F *F *F *F
“A post-mortem examination revealed that his
stomach contained 201 coins.”
— “World’s News.”
A pot of money.
“Plaintiff said defendant had come to his
home ‘asking for trouble.’ Defendant said he
merely wanted to ask hi£ wife to return to him.”
— “Sun.”
Well, wasn’t that asking for trouble?
-j. .j< >;•
“Forcing her hand from the revolver he threw
it over the cliff.” — Woman’s paper serial.
Yes, but what did he do with the
revolver?
“I* *F *F *F
“John Spotter... .said he was worried about
his business and took a glass of beer. He was
fined £2.”
w
Zoology.
A herd of hippopotami were grazing on
a hill;
The sun was high ; the sky was clear ;
the air was very still.
They ate the pleasant herbage in a fashion
unsuppressed
And, as they ate, apparently proceeded
to digest.
As this holds naught of interest sufficient
to rehearse
It seems I’m hardly justified recording it
in verse.
What’s more, ay hippopotami are ugly
and they smell,
The reason why I write of thein I’m
hanged if I can tell!
T. W. NATHAN.
No Small Bier.
“A man completely wrapped up in himself
makes a very small parcel,” says a clergyman.
Well, that depends ... I knew a bloke
Self-centred to the Nth degree.
In fact, soon he became a joke,
Such was his self-complacency.
Of nothing but himself he spoke;
Dissuasion didn’t harry him.
Yet, when at last he deigned to croak
And he was wrapped in silky-oak,
It took six men to carry him !
P. O. M. C.
Reversal.
“Higher Sheep Earnings.”— “S. M. Herald.”
From this intelligence it looks
That luck’s abandoning the books;
That nowadays, instead of skinners
For them, the sheep are picking winners !
PERCIVAL.
Spotter is not for naught his name ;
And he must still endure it.
A spot of bother takes the blame —
He took a spot to cure it.
P. P.
"-Like Cat and Dog."
“At the R.S.P.C.A. annual meeting in Syd-
ney attacks were made on the council by a
group who styled themselves the ‘Reform
party’ and issued a printed ballot ticket for
the election of officers. The meeting was in an
uproar.”— “D.T.”
It was Mr. Dal Maishon, one of the
Reformists, who led the attack. “The
present council might think they’re safe
because they keep in a pack,” he barked.
“But I’ve been sniffing around a good bit
since the last general meeting, and I’ve
dug up some interesting facts. The way
the Dogs’ Home is run is just one bone
that my party has to pick with the coun-
cil, and I say that”
A voice: “Garn, crawl into your
kennel and nibble your fleas like any
other mongrel!”
“And I say that a small minority is try-
ing to dictate to the majority.”
A voice: “That’s right. It’s the case of
the tail wagging the dog! ”
Mrs. P. Kinnease, her voice rising
shrilly in anger, said she suspected, by
the way Mr. Dal Maishon was going on,
that he’d had too many spots. She would
like to see him and the rest of the so-
called Reform party muzzled.
A voice (wearily): “Yap, yap, yap—
she never stops!”
But Mrs. P. Kinnease was just getting
into her stride. “I know all about the
Reform party,” she snapped. “They are
all ‘outstanding’ candidates like those
the ‘S. M. Herald’ sponsors in politics,
and, like the others, the only thing ‘out-
standing’ about them is the way they all
go to the bottom of the poll. But per-
haps they are not so contemptible as some
others of the association that I could
mention—Mr. Tom Catts, for instance.
Afraid to come out openly with
either one faction or the other, he just
sits on the fence. No doubt when he’s
satisfied which side is assured of the
greatest support he’ll come down and
rub himself against the legs of the
winners! ”
A voice: “Yes, the crawler! Someone
ought to pull his whiskers!”
The chairman: “Order! Order!
Will someone please move that Mrs. P.
Kinnease be no longer heard? She’s
always barking up the wrong tree about
something.”
A voice: “The old clique have got you
on a lead, but you don’t know it.”
Mr. Terry Ehr then rose. “They say
it’s an old dog for a hard road,” he
said, “and some of us who’ve ground our
molars down to the gums working for
the association are expected to sit back
and let a few fresh young puppies who
are still dribbling mother’s milk take over
and pull everything to pieces. If it’s an
all-in fight they want they don’t have to
come begging for me to oblige. And
that goes for some of my Scotch and
Irish friends who are here tonight.”
Voices: “Hear! hear! ”
Another member got up to speak,
when a voice shouted “You sit down!
This in an Australian association. We
don’t want any Poms butting in!”
The chairman, in his address, said there
had been a lot of growling going on
among some members, many of whom
wanted bringing to heel. Some others
had acted very cattily about the coun-
cil. The association wanted to avoid dog-
fights. It was in the position of watch-
dog for members’ interests.
The meeting broke up in wild disorder
when the secretary announced that six
officials’ posts were vacant. Mr. Dal
Maishon led the stampede.
BO.
SERVICE DEPARTMENT.
Wants.
Advertiser will send, postage paid, back
numbers of “Times” Literary Supplement and
other literary periodicals to any young soldier
in isolated battle-station genuinely interested
in literature. —3382.
To buy Bulletin Reciter. —3383.
Information Sought.
(1) Specific gravity of columbite and tanta-
lite ? (2) What was the annual production of
these metals for the four years preceding this
war in (a) W A., (b) whole of Australia? (3)
Difference between tantalite and columbite ?
(I) Varies from 5.3 to 7.3, becoming higher as
tantalate content increases. (2) (a) W.A. pro-
duction : —
Year. Tons. Value.
1936 .. .. 14.36 £7,120
1937 .. .. 19.66 29,011
1938 .. .. 19.71 27,557
1939 .. .. 8.28 12,073
(h) Only above production figures from W.A.
are available, although it is known that some
tantalite has been produced from Forsayth, in
Q’land, and in the vicinity of the Firris River,
50 miles south of Darwin,, in N.T. (3) Tanta-
lite and columbite are part of an isomorphous
series corresponding to the formula (FeMn)
(NbTa2)06 (tantalate and niobate of iron
and manganese)—the nearly pure tantalate is
called tantalite and the nearly pure niobate
columbite.
(1) How does Victorian flax compare with
that of overseas markets ? (2) Have linen
goods been manufactured from Australian flax,
or has it been used entirely for war purposes?
(3) Is flax produced in other States as good as
that of Victoria? (4) What do the Rangitikei
Flax Mills manufacture ?
(1) The quality of Victorian flax varies with
that of the straw from which it is produced.
Gradings have disclosed qualities almost equal
to that of Courtrai flax, regarded as the highest
grade produced in the world. (2) Manufactures
from Australian flax are used for all purposes
in Australia and by Australian fighting services.
Canvas and firehose of the highest quality, linen
thread and many types of cordage are pro-
duced. Linen goods have not yet been pro-
duced because of the need for conserving fibre
for essential war purposes. (3) Flax produced
in States other than Victoria is approximately
of similar quality. (4) The Rangitikei Flax
Mills do not produce linen flax. Their flax
product is a hard fibre called Phormium tenax
(N.Z. flax). It has been used for manufac-
turing rope and hard cordage, wrapping twine,
binder twine and other similar products. Ordi-
nary linen flax now is being grown and manu-
factured in M.L. as well.
Brief Answers.
T.P.C.: No further information available....
R.D.W.: Messina was captured on August 17.
... .F.D.H.: Acid fumes are particularly harm-
ful to asthmatics and sufferers from chronic
bronchitis. A change of residence is advised.
Answers to Correspondents
Name and address must appear on the MS. No
liability is undertaken re contributions voluntarily
submitted; and no MS. will be returned unless
stamps accompany. MS. should be addressed to
the Editor.
N.R.Y.: Pleasant but pointless... .TAX.:
The best of it is borrowed... .8.M.: Describe
exactly what you saw, and there’s a good
Abo. par. in it G. 8.: You’re hiding a
genuine light under a bushel of archaisms....
W.A.C.: “As an amateur rider I spent my life
on a horse.” Not, alas, Pegasus... .0.W.: Find
a phrase describing what the magpies do sing,
instead of telling us “they voice no doleful
threnody”... .C.MacM.: Tut....F.M.: Bloke
with the “agonised pain on his face” had prob-
ably just read your story... .W.V.T.; Sermon.
. ...1.D.; Published something very like it a
few months ag0.... W.D.G.: It blew up
M.L.: Elementary... .S.M.K.: If Gaiety
doesn’t win John will lose Julia and be
financially ruined —that one again!.... A.W.R.:
Nearly; style and spirit lack warmth T.F.:
Been reading Hemingway L. 8.; “Jake, with
an ugly grin, gave him a poke in the eye that
hurt.” Jake should just have shown him one
of your sentences... .T.M.: Boil down “The
Prodigal Father” to an Abo. par R.P.:
Characters come from nowhere and go no-
where. ... J. 5.8.; Melodramatic L.C.: Write
about what you’ve observed... .W.M.K.:
Mechanical G.S.: Shorten and try a daily.
M.L.: “Ah, cruel, cruel, Marie!” Ah, cruel,
cruel dialogue.... R.D.Y.: Magazinish
A.G.: Merely memories... .R.B.McD.: Might
be a comedy in it if it wasn’t ruined by un-
convincing “toughness”... .W.G.W.: Scrappy.


THE OTHER FELLOW'S MIND
The contributor placed first is paid
4Jd. per line; all others 2£d. per line.
Soldiers in the Bush
“Geordie” (B. 18/8/’43), in his essay
on “How to Make Yourself Comfortable
in the Bush,” has left himself wide open
to criticism from the real soldiers. The
type he saw (possibly lived with) in
the mulga which has “well-built mess
huts and so on” does not belong to the
Corps (of Trooper Warner fame). Per-
haps I should explain that the 6th, 7th
and 9th A.I.F. are the divisions which
have done 99 p.c. of the ground fighting
for Australia in this war.
I belong (with some pride) to the 7th
Div. Therefore, I take a very poor view
of “I was told on good authority” (sounds
like a war correspondent) “that it isn’t
done to build anything over and above
strictly regulation tent, fly and, if lucky,
floorboards.” That is nonsense, obviously
from a stay-at-home soldier. And to say
“some of the men’s tents had fires out-
side but a fire was apparently among the
things that aren’t done in commissioned
circles” is an insult to officers.
Let me answer such criticism with hard
facts. In my three years’ experience of
soldiering with the A.I.F. in the Middle
East and New Guinea the real soldier has
proved himself a master of improvisation,
an excellent bushman and especially good
at “making himself comfortable in the
bush.”
I took part in the Owen Stanley-
Kokoda-Sanananda shows. There we
travelled per foot, with no gear, such
as tents or flies, or even tools with which
to improvise (except a bayonet), but it
was amazing to see what our “lack of
bushcraft” produced.
We each carried a groundsheet and a
cape as protection from rain (which is
measured in feet), and, although it was
impossible for the resulting “humpy,” plus
various jungle leaves, to keep out the
nightly rain, we did keep warm. In 14
weeks of such conditions I am unable to
recall anyone suffering from colds or
influenza.
We’d light fires (when the Japs allowed)
and concoct meals out of bully beef, bis-
cuits and rice in at least six different
ways. Difficulty for weeks on end of get-
ting a smoke was solved by cutting up a
particular type of jungle root or rolling
tea leaves. Water came from jungle
bamboo-trees, cups from small tins and
a piece of wire (that was good enough for
our general, by the way) and rope from
lawyer vines, and many a small hut was
built by us from jungle materials only.
No ; the real Australian soldier doesn’t
fall short in bushcraft. —V. X. (Vic.).
Australia’s Soul
Olive Green’s letter (B. 25/8/’43) was
weak on facts.
Our danger in the days after the fall of
Singapore, although serious, was not com-
parable with that of England after Dun-
kirk. England was assailed by thousands
of enemy aircraft, established on bases
just 20 miles away. We were attacked by
’planes, rarely more than 100 in number,
based at least 500 miles away from our
furthest outposts. The enemy was not
yet in New Guinea.
Also party politics were subordinated
in our time of need, the Opposition co-
operating wholeheartedly with the Curtin
Government. And that co-operation suc-
ceeded in its aim, for Australia, as Eng-
land, is still free.
Finally we did not, as Miss Green sug-
gests, cry to “war-racked England” for
help. We appealed to the U.S.A. and
obtained the required help. And if at
the same time we also appealed to Eng-
land for assistance .that assistance could
not have been refused on the ground
that we failed to follow England’s lead
in the matter of a coalition. England
does not disown her Dominions because
the Governments of those countries are
sometimes of opposite political opinions
to those ruling in the Mother Parliament.
It is the privilege of a democratic, self-
governing country of the British Com-
monwealth of Nations to have a Govern-
ment of any color. —B. Smee (N.S.W.).
An Officer’s Experience
1 am a disabled English officer who
came here with his family, prejudiced,
if at all, in favor of Australia and
Australians, as I had met some first-rate
Diggers in England. I have met with
little but suspicion and anti-English
prejudice, and even downright hostility.
1 am often asked concerning prospects
for post-war emigrants. I have no hesi-
tation in warning them of the prejudice,
and even hostility, they are likely to
meet, in this State at any rate.
Only the other day I was asked by an
English naval officer who had fought in
Russia and the Mediterranean “Why do
the Australians treat us with such
obvious hostility?” I could not deny his
charge.
I could quote many examples, but will
confine myself to one. In this State I
joined, the Limbless Soldiers’ Association,
and was well received by the members,
but was informed that I was ineligible
for the privilege of a pass on the trams
as I had not served in the A.1.F.!
Pommy (and proud of it) (S.A.).
Australia's Ideals
Australians in the mass are more
British than even the people of England,
and they share inherently with the Eng-
lish the British ideals. Through her
traditional loyalty Australia recognised
“Ribbed or plain, sir ?”
the common cause when war broke out
in 1939, and promptly threw in her lot
with the Motherland.
Isolated from Europe and almost un-
conscious of the reality of the Pacific,
Australia had developed a social and eco-
nomic creed or objective of her own.
This objective was born of the Labor
movement, which preached, in the guise
of the doctrine of the brotherhood of
man, the objective of the maximum of
pay for the minimum of work.
Labor gave to youth a material objec-
tive, but no inspiring ideal. Industrial
youth, made drunk on words and
phrases, had not started to think seri-
ously. Labor showed no inspired deter-
mination that Australia would contest
every hostile foothold on her shores, un-
aided if necessary. There was no
fervored cry from Labor that every
homestead should be as a fortress held to
the end.
Great as is the tragedy of war, a greater
is that condition of national mind so de-
void of ideals held sacred that youth
yields all without sacrifice. Such a nation
would perish without loss to the world.
War will recur just so often as national
ideals clash to the breaking, and clash
they will until such time as when,
through recurring death struggles to de-
fend, alternating with peaceful reactions,
the opposing ideals of the world become
fused into one common ideal. Then,
and not until then, may it be said that
the last war, the war that will end war,
has been fought and truly won. —
Briny (Q.).
A Letter to the Second A.I.F.
Well, mates, the elections are over, and
I suppose you have heard all about them.
In a way they were very flattering to
you. We, the electors, said in effect:
“You are doing a good job ; so good
that we feel we can’t do better than allow
you to finish it while we attend to our
own business.” So we elected the crowd
that lets us strike when we feel like it,
doesn’t send us to fight against our will,
reduces prices and gives us lashings of
easy money.
This crowd doesn’t neglect defence,
either ; that is in the capable hands of Mr.
Forde. He showed his interest in the
matter recently by getting into uniform
and going to New Guinea. You didn’t
meet him, of course, unless you happened
to be back at base.
Once we Queenslanders boasted of the
Ninth Battalion and the other great units
we have raised for the A.I.F. Now we
boast of Mr. Forde. And Mr. Fadden,
too, of course. Mr. Fadden also considers
defence important, but not so important
as the leadership of the Opposition. Of
course any fair-minded person can see
that this matter is of primary importance
—to Mr. Fadden. Anyway, we at least
showed by our votes that we didn’t con-
sider defence more important than Mr.
Fadden’s position, so his sense of rela-
tive values is sound. And Mr. Fadden
himself was so busy slapping down pos-
sible rivals that he couldn’t spare too
much time for defence. So if it got a
poor hearing all round that just couldn’t
be helped.
Of course we realised that you might
have your own views on these matters,
so we gave you a chance to vote. But we
made sure you wouldn’t do anything rash
by giving it also to lads and lasses who
think as we do.—J. B. Cameron, Biddes-
ton (Q.).
Books and Service Men
An interesting characteris-
tic of our Allied visitors is
their intense interest in books.
You find Allied service men
always ready to buy and read
books —all types of books,
but those with an Australian
background seem to be
popular.
I called in at the reading-
room of the Melbourne
Public Library the other day,
and as usual a big percentage
of those at the desks were in
uniform. I looked in vain
for a representative of the
Australian forces. — lago
(Vic.).
A Nefarious Scheme
Thank heaven for our
.State Premiers. Without these
stout fellows all sorts of dirty
tricks might be played on the
country. Why, we might
even wake up some line
morning and find it possible
to travel or send goods from
one part of Australia to an-
other without hindrance at
State borders if it weren’t for men like
Mr. Dunstan, of Victoria.
It seems unbelievable, but somebody
has actually had the front to suggest that
as a first step in the standardisation of
Australian rail gauges a 4ft. Byin. line
should be built from Port Pirie to Broken
Hill, thus giving a standard gauge from
Kalgoorlie (W.A.) to Brisbane (Q.).
Mr. Dunstan expressed “dismay” as
soon as he heard about it, and promptly
wrote to the Prime Minister. He pointed
out that such a proposal would “by-pass”
Victoria, leaving it “high and dry.” He
would agree to a single gauge line link-
ing all capitals—probably in accordance
with his mighty talking efforts about de-
centralisation —but he “certainly objected
to one line being singled out to the exclu-
sion of all others.”
And so he should. Why should a
truck of Queensland bananas for Kal-
goorlie be routed through Broken Hill
and be denied the privilege of travelling
through Victoria, and thus adding to Mr.
Dunstan’s rail revenue, merely to save a
paltry 300 miles? No State-righter would
entertain such a proposal for a moment.
Mr. Dunstan should co-opt the Tas-
manian Premier. Mr. Cosgrove need
only be shown how unfair it is that his
State is repeatedly being by-passed by
the cursed mainland railways and he’ll
join Mr. Dunstan in demanding the
bridging of Bass Strait and routing of all
Brisbane-Perth rail travel via Sydney,
Melbourne, Hobart and Adelaide.
Thus would the nation become a
Premiers’ paradise.—P. H. C. (N.S.W.).
Church and' Science
Apparently “R.H.H.” (B. 25/8/’43) is
one of those Rosy Dawnists who believe
in the beatific destiny of science.
Firstly, the long-suffering Garden of
Eden is once more dragged into the ques-
tion, for what purpose goodness only
knows. Then it is the church’s teachings
on “the status of woman.” The church
inculcated the spirit of chivalry. It is
science and the Rosy Dawnists which
have dragged woman down to the equal
of man. Then it’s the church’s “attitude
towards the illegitimate child.” The
church treats this unfortunate being in
the same manner as it does every other
human being, with tenderness and con-
sideration. It is the parents who receive the
blame, not the child. It is the Rosy Dawnist
who smirks in his hand at the unfortu-
nate child, while condoning the parents.
The church’s outlook on social diseases
is that they are the result of humanity’s
neglect of God’s Commandments. The
church doesn’t recognise the teachings of
psychology, if by this is meant psycho-
analysis. For psycho-analysis is to a
large extent pseudo-psychology. Sex (this
is the teaching that the writer probably
refers to) is not, according to true psy-
chology, the underlying motive of all
human action.
The church does not decry men who
have the honesty to face up to a problem.
It only decries wrong methods of facing
a problem. If a man is honestly in search
of truth, the church is with him. But if
a man’s purpose is merely to display
abnormalities and filth and lies, then the
church is against him.
“Until sex is lifted from the slime
where it was cast by the church we can-
not hope to see any improvement in the
moral code.” This is a definite • mis-
statement at the least. It was not until
the Rosy Dawnists began to spread their
ideas that the moral code started to
crack. They inculcated the spirit of free-
dom from the church, and have now be-
come alarmed because the masses have
expanded this to freedom of morals.
The church most certainly should not
be given the burden of their sins. But it
is quite willing to co-operate in aiding
these unfortunate theorists to retrieve
their grievous mistake. In fact, it is
already doing so by instructing parents
on how to inculcate truth to their
children. — Observer (N.S.W.).
Trees in Australia
Cheers to “John Weyman” (B.
25/8/'43) for his remarks about trees in
Australia—the want of them and the
waste of them.
Westralians have achieved a wonder-
ful arboreal memorial in King’s Park,
Perth, where they have planted a flower-
ing gum-tree in memory of each fallen
soldier—miles of wonderful bloom. Seen
in the setting high above the Swan River,
with its sandy beaches and blue water
stretching away in the far distance, it is
something to remember.
But Sydney’s beautiful harbor will
soon no longer deserve the adjective.
A presswoman from New York asked
“Is it because there is so little earth
on the rocks round Sydney Harbor
that there are no big trees?” 1 felt a
pain somewhere as I answered “No, it is
because we have had too many pioneers,
and American axes are cheap!”—Vinia
de V.-H. (N.S.W.).
Irrigating the Dead Heart
It is to be hoped that when the new
Ms.P. take their places in Parliament to
carry out their promises one at least of
them will bring forward the matter of
appointing engineers to go into the feasi-
bility of lon Idriess’s proposal for turning
back the waste waters now flowing into
northern seas.
Our greatest competitor in the cattle
trade, Argentina, owes its entire success
to the irrigation which turned its deserts
of sand into alfalfa pastures. India,
Egypt, Africa, all tell the same tale, and
where would W.A. be but for the Forrest
plan which took the life-giving fluid to
its goldfields? If a small supply turned
the sandy wastes of Renmark and Mil-
dura into flourishing centres, what could
not a truly national undertaking do at a
less cost than one month’s expenditure on
the war? —Agricola (Tas.).
Equal Rights for Town and Country
Every taxpayer has to bear portion of
the cost of government according to in-
come. No differentiation is made be-
tween city-dwellers and country residents.
Should not the country folk be entitled
to receive some of the benefits or lux-
uries that the city-dweller looks on as
necessities? Why should they be penal-
ised for living in the country?
The man in the country frequently lives
some distance from a township or rail-
head, and has to use a conveyance to go
for his provisions and to deliver or for-
ward his produce. It all means higher
freight and handling charges, reducing
income or raising the cost of living.
Could, and should, it not be so arranged
that the country-dwellet pays no more
for his commodities than the city resi-
dent, also that petrol required to trans-
port his goods and produce be made
available to him at the price charged to
the city-dweller who uses motor trans-
port only for pleasure? — Equal ivy (S.A.).


K
* 1
I
'j.i
N
:\vm
&
V--. 5
i^=
a
i
„
c
o#* 9
\
a
W
S'
C
Y OUR old friend on
peacetime jobs,
“Dulux” is now full time
on more urgent business.
Fm in it with our boys
on the fighting fronts,
for Fm protecting much
of Australia’s important
war equipment and
(without boasting)
making a grand job of it.
That’s why you’ll have to
excuse my leaving you
(except for stocks still
remaining on resellers’
shelves).
But be ready for the
great come-back, for I’ll
be on those civilian jobs
with you again later.
THE SYNTHETIC FINISH
Supersedes Enamels and Varnishes
A Product of British Australian Lead Manufacturers Pty„ Ltd,, Sydney, Melbourne, Adelaide
Makers of “Duco” Lacquers. -
