

JKL
;vr:r : -
The Bulletin
‘The Bulletin/’
Vol. 64.—N0. 3312
Wednesday, August 4, 1943
Price 6d.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney. N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.
Seppelts
ST. BARTHOLOMEW THE GREAT.
r jP*HE history of this famous old
London church is traditionally
associated with Rahere, a courtier of
Henry I. Sent abroad on an errand
of State, Rahere fell ill and, in a
vision, was rescued by St. Bartholo-
mew. As a gesture of gratitude to
the saint, Rahere founded, on the
site of this church, an Augustinian
priory as well as the famous hospital
“St. Bart’s.” The priory was near
the martyr’s stake in Smithfield,
where, in 1381, Wat Tyler was
slain by Sir William Walworth and
where the famous outlawed Scot,
Sir William Wallace, was executed.
This church, among the oldest in
London, is world-famous for the
impressively proportioned Norman
pillars and arched recesses seen in
this interior of the church. The
tomb of Rahere can also be seen.
Another tomb in the church of St,
Bartholomew the Great is that of
Sir Walter Midmay, the founder of
Emmanuel College, Cambridge. In
1863, restoration of the church was
begun. It is of interest to know that
the lady chapel, rebuilt in 1869,
once served as a printing office where
Benjamin Franklin worked. At one
time, the north transept accommo-
dated a blacksmith’s forge. In the
twelfth century the Norman tower
of the church was replaced by the
surviving brick structure, which con-
tains five fine examples of sixteenth-
century bells.


Sioni Writing
This Book FREE to YOU!
STOTTS CORRESPONDENCE COLLEGE,
100 Russell Street, Melbourne.
Please send, without obligation, your New Free
doublet, explaining how to Write lor Profit, a»
advertised in the Sydney “Bulletin. '
Mil Same
My Address
S.B. 243 ..
AGE
The Red Page
THE GREAT AUSTRALIAN
MYTH.
There arc two obstructive factors at
work on Australian writers today. One
is the Commonwealth Literary Fund and
the other is the Myth of the Great Aus-
tralian Novel.
This myth is from two sources: Henry
Handel Richardson and a forlorn convic-
tion that the rest of the world knows
nothing about Australia. Thus the novel-
ist, feels that he or she must explain
everything about Australia while also
writing an Australian novel. We have
had a number of these complicated exer-
cises published and we know their for-
mula by heart. The arrival of a first
family, its struggle to settle on the land,
the begetting of a second generation
against a background of the country’s
economic-sociological-political develop-
ment, an arrival at the third generation
and an effort to relate its states of mind,
complicated relationships and various
domestic dramas to the whole bedevilled
content of the Australian background.
It can’t be done. Not as a novel, any-
way. As a chronicle, if you like, and a
good deal of excellent, earnest-minded,
Mitchell Library research work has been
done in these economic-sociological
tomes masquerading as novels. As back-
ground material for the novel itself they
may have done a genuine service. But as
an art form they are impossible, in spite
of The Fortunes of Richard Mahony.
No one can depreciate the profundity
Of that work, but it is not a great novel.
Any one of its individual themes, worked
out purely on its dramatic content, could
have been a great novel, but, merged in
the vast mass of its background material,
each loses its special unity in the over-
lapping of other themes. Its central
motive is too thin to carry the weight of
900 pages of packed prose, and Richard
Mahony is too negative a character to
vitalise that motive: a depressed Eng-
lishman whose nostalgia for England
forces him back there only to find all his
expectations of a homecoming dis-
appointed, which drives him back to Aus-
tralia and a miserable finality in senility
and death.
If Henry Handel Richardson had split
that mass of prose into its. half a dozen
separate novels, she would have given
the Australian novel an admirable tradi-
tion on which to build its present effort.
But Richard Mahony is doomed to be-
come one of those works which every-
body accepts as a classic and nobody
reads. I have read it through myself,
and it took me about a week to do so,
and I am a quick reader. And this time-
factor of its reading must defeat it as an
art fbrm, and will defeat all other art
forms inspired by it. And that very
inspiration, by the way, should warn
Australian writers to leave the Richard
Mahony form of novel severely alone.
That a thing has been done well once is
the best of reasons for not doing it again.
There is one simple and profound law
to which every art form must submit
itself. It is that no effort at creation can
exceed the-intellectual and sensory equip-
ment that it is addressed to.
Sound cannot go beyond the gamut of
response by the auditory nerves ; the eye
cannot record forms which go beyond its
radius of vision, nor can the memory
keep in sequence more than a limited
mass of recorded material. If the Fifth
Symphony lasted for three hours instead
of half, an hour, no normal ear could
keep on responding either to its thematic
unity or its massed sound waves. There
are pictures in the Louvre so large that
they reach from wall to wall of those
large galleries. No one has'ever seen
them. They are not pictures, but pano-
ramas.
Again, a drama by Shakspeare is de-
signed to hold our attention for the time-
space of about three hours. If it lasted
for six, human endurance would throw
up the job of trying to keep intact its
sequence of drama and emotion.
If a novel cannot be read within the
time-space of three or four hours, it can-
not be absorbed and memorised in the
foregoing terms. I put out of this con-
sideration the old-time picaresque novel,
which can be as long and rambling as
you please, since it is really a collection
of separate episodes strung loosely on a
central thread. But the novel of today,
defined by its greatest masters, Dickens
and Balzac, has arrived at a form defi-
nitely fixed by our ability to retain its
whole content intact in memory.
And this demands that every separate
facet of a work of art must have its
reason for being and its special relation
to the central theme. This does not ex-
clude from the novel minor motives and
separate character groups, but these also
must exist strictly within the tonal set-
ting demanded by the central theme, and
must move with it, and not away from it.
To do this effectively is difficult enough,
but when the writer strives to impose
op it a hodgepodge of economic-sociolo-
gical-political-historical subject matter the
job is bedevilled out of all possible order
and unity.
No fatuity could be greater than the
assumption that a great work of art
demands a great mass of material, or that
size itself has any relation to greatness,
lust the opposite. All great works of
art are based on the simplest of themes,
and are worked out with a rigid rejec-
tion of all extraneous material.
The key word to creative unity in art
is that of the law of Nemesis—-inevita-
bility. The theme must be struck at the
outset and must dictate motivity to all
that follows. Let anyone take the cen-
tral drama of Bleak House, from the
moment Lady Deadlock is arrested by
the handwriting on a legal document to
her self-willed death at the filthy grave-
yard where her fever lies buried, and,
reading only the central theme, and ex-
cluding minor motives in the novel, see
how sequence is driven on sequence to
a finality as inevitable as that of the
Fifth Symphony, struck from the fan-
tastically slight germ of four unison
notes, out of which Beethoven builds his
whole concept of man at war with
destiny.
The novel proper must concern itself
with a single central motive worked out
by the conflict of personality and drama-
tised by sequence of events forcing the
motive to a final crisis. Take any great
novel and you will see that this is the
principle on which it is built.
In A Bachelors Establishment Balzac
takes a handful of characters —a mother,
two sons, an aunt, an old doctor with a
weak-minded son, a gutter-brat girl and
a tough small-town youth—and builds
a splendid drama based bh the scoun-
drelly son Phillip’s rapacity, which is
the thread leading all sequences of the
novel to its finality. So with all great
novels.
The great American novel is not one
of those overloaded sociological tracts
that have come out by the dozen : these
late years, in which the author’s political
bias sees his puppets the victims of a
monstrous injustice by external affairs,
and quite ignores the truism that all
human 'beings are the creatures of their
internal mechanism. Babbitt is a great
American novel, apd its theme is the
simple one of a cdinmonplace business-
man’s struggle to detach his ego from all
the other thousands of Babbitts by try-
ing to think for himself, and his failure
to do so. That final crisis where Virgil
Gunch breaks Babbitt’s nerve by just
looking at him is one of the subtlest
dramatisations of a novel’s theme that I
know of.
It was by Sinclair Lewis’s earlier novel.
Main Street, that the American novel
became a world property, and turned
our attention to the whole output of
American prose. Main Street has for its
theme nothing more than the disillu-
sions of an average married couple
against a background of small-town per-
sonalities, yet it brought America vividly
before the world’s eyes and sold over 4
million copies in Russia alone. Do you
think any overloaded sociological propa-
gandist tract could do that?
These are invariably “serious” works.
The author’s portentous seriousness of
outlook on the subject matter of his
novel is being accepted as a valuation of
the novel itself.
And it is just in this matter of the
author’s viewpoint on his novel’s ma-
terial that all values in the novel exist.
Unless an author can maintain a de-
tached, ironic outlook on the creatures
of his metier he is given over to the
emotional sentimentality of third-rate art.
Oh, 1 know Dickens floundered into that
bog betimes, and so did Balzac, but the
great content of their works is founded
on ironic humor.
I haven't space for instances to make
that clear; it is sufficient to point out
here that the great generic sources of the
novel —Petronius, Rabelais, Cervantes,
Fielding—based their work on laughter.
Humor is the sacrosanct property of
prose ; poetry cannot achieve it. Even
Shakspcare had to fall back on prose
for humor. 1 hope it is understood that
humor, as the basis of all good prose, has
more to do with the author’s outlook on
his subject matter than with the matter
itself; though, of course, comedy and
the mad antics of human personality
must always be the best material of the
novel. But any material, however tragic
dr violent, may be used effectively in the
novel so long as the author maintains
his ironic, sardonic balance.
1 would place Conrad’s Secret Agent
as a perfect example of a tragic theme
handled with inimitable good taste from
the ironic angle.
What is its theme? The intense pre-
cautions of his mother and sister to pro-
tect the half-witted Stevie, which are the
cause of getting him blown to pieces by
a bomb. Think of what a loathsome
mess a modern sentimentalist of the
Steinbeck-Hemingway school would have
made of such a theme, and how at every
page we would have to squirm at the
spectacle of sternly repressed male tears.
I can conceive, and shudder at, the
concept of Hemingway, with Chief In-
spector Heat, bending over the slab on
which repose the remains of Stevie,
scraped up with a shovel. But Conrad
carries us through that ordeal in a way
that makes it a fascinating experience.
So with the final murder of Mr. Verloc,
which is visualised with such intense
clarity that one has the sense of being
actually in the room and watching the
knife descend on Mr. Verloc’s prostrate
body.
But not for one moment does Conrad
demand that we should suffer with Mr.
Verloc or for the unfortunate Winnie, or
Stevie, or Stevie’s old mother. The
whole sordid, drab episode of murder in
the back parlor of the dismal little shop
which sells indecent photographs is
placed before us with ruthless precision
but with perfect detachment from emo-
tion for or against the creatures involved
in it, and the effect on us is one of pure
delight.
Can prose on a tragic theme ever give
us that exaltation of mind that we get
from poetry? I think not. Our response
there is based on the conflict of two
opposites: awareness of a tragic motive
by the exaltation of its poetic image.
But prose can come- pretty close to that
process where it fascinates an intellec-
tual response by rejecting an emotional
complicity with it. All bad prose tries
to do just the opposite ; it demands an
emotional response at the expense of our
intellectual detachment.
And that is what all “serious” novels
of today are trying to do. By the weight,
denseness, turgidity and solemnity in these
works, it is quite clear that their authors
set out with the label “great” already
attached to them.
Let us get rid of the fatuity that such
a thing as the Great Australian Novel
can be written. It is an amateur’s bed-
time fantasy.
Great novels may be written in this
country, but they will not be the Great
Australian Novel, any more than a novel
selected from the mass of English prose
could be labelled the Great English
Novel.
If such a unique standard could be
fixed in any art it would be the death of
that art. Yet there is no doubt that the
myth of such an achievement is muddling
the Australian writer today, and dis-
heartening him and her from tackling the
novel proper.
And here the Commonwealth Fund is
adding its obstructive effect. For every
writer suspects that if two novels were
offered for its opinion, the one a novel
proper, based on human personality and
conflict, and the other one of the usual
Overweighted sociological tomes, it would
inevitably fall for the latter, however
good might be the novel proper. Don’t
ask why. Wherever a matter of aesthetics
is referred To official or academic opinion,
it Will invariably discard a work of in-
dividuality and favor a work of stand-
ardised mediocrity.
I sympathised with Bob Menzies in
his desire to help the arts by establishing
the Literary Fund and the Royal Aus-
tralian Academy, but I never have be-
lieved they would be any real use to
either painting or literature. These State
institutions always become the preserve
of mediocre achievement.
Today we stand on the verge of a
drastic swing-over from one outlook on
life to another, and from one expression
in art to its opposite. We know what that
expression in the novel has been this last
20 years. Its accent has been on affairs
and not on human passion and per-
sonality. It has not affirmed life, but
has attacked it.
Life is affirmed by the artist’s delight
in it and attacked by his disgust at it.
The present attack has been from two
angles: the fastidious shrinking of an
Aldous Huxley from life's brutalities and
an ostentatious flaunting of those brutali-
ties by an Ernest Hemingway. Huxley’s
method has been to debunk life as a bad
joke and Hemingway’s to expose it as a
monstrous attack on suffering mankind,
but both are equally horrified by it as a
spectacle. For the rest, the average novel
has been a dismal Leftist moan at the
procedure by which man fills his belly.
It doesn’t need much prophetic insight
to see that the coming novelist will
reverse the last two decades’ outlook on
the novel. The needs of humanity, too
long stressed by war and cataclysm, will
insist on that; which means that the
novel proper—the novel of human con-
flict, drama, personality, passion and
aspiration—will return to its own. And
it certainly will not be the Great Austra-
lian Novel, as that cumbersome mon-
strosity is conceived today, and the pub-
lisher who has the wit to welcome the
new outlook will make a lot of money.
NORMAN LINDSAY.
SUNDRY SHOWS.
Lamentation at Sydney Royal:
Always excepting the singing of Gladys Mon-
crieff,
"The Merry Widow” is about as lively as a
slab of concrieff.
A musical comedy is supposed to be comedy
as well as music
And the gagging of this one would make me
sick and yon sick.
Consequently, about the peiformance of Mr.
Len Getting*
It is fairest as well as kindest to say absolutely
netting,
“Mac Hoots : I shouldn’t like to say
that Gauguin wasn’t a pretty considerable
painter. But, viewing the talkie ‘ The
Moon and Sixpence” (which, of course,
is based on the life of Gauguin), I was
enchanted to observe that Hollywood is
quite certain that the public would never
respond to the painter’s masterpieces ex-
cept with disrespect. Throughout the
film—and this is vital to the piece-
people whisper about the “genius.” The
backs of the genius’s canvases are freely
and boldly exhibited. But not once in
the entire length of the film, is the front
of a Gauguin painting shown. I suppose
the public is a donkey ; but I find it an
interesting thought that Hollywood would
certainly not be afraid to reproduce the
paintings of Rubens, of Turner or of
Gruner.
J. Carington Smith’s water-colors at
the Macquarie Galleries, Sydney, are in
the current English manner, suggesting
smudges of smoke interspersed among
barbed wire entanglements. The oils
are less sophisticated, and three of
them —“Secheron Point, Hobart,” “Bat-
tery Point, Hobart,” and “Street in
Perth, Tasmania” —are quite notable feats
of impressionism, though the dullness of
the subject matter repels enthusiasm.
“Lord Luvus” on academies:
Opening the Australian Academy of Art exhi-
bition at the Athenaeum, Melbourne, R. G.
Menzies said that the academy had been
charged with being a last-minute defence of
conservatism; on the contrary, its policy was
to invite into its ranks all sincere, honest and
competent painters who had something to con-
tribute to artistic knowledge. But would any
body of artists say that their policy was to
invite insincere, dishonest and incompetent
painters who had nothing to contribute? No-
body would. The difficulty is always to recog-
nise who are the sincere, honest and competent,
and in the past academies have been singularly
unlucky in this direction. None of the French
academies recognised the significant painters ot
their epoch such as Manet, Monet, Corot,
Cezanne, Van Gogh and Gauguin; and after
the death of Reynolds not one of the great
English painters, such as Constable, 01
Crome, Turner and Whistler, was recognised
until his reputation had been established-
Generally speaking, this is inevitable, because
academies naturally review the new in terms ot
the old, so that the new artist always looks in-
sincere and incompetent. The A.A.A. might pe
the one grand exception, but there is little m its
fifth annual show to encourage much optimism-
Mr. Menzies wants the prefix "Royal attacheu
to the AAA . If that happens it will be the deam
of art in Australia, as it has been in England-
An R.A.A.A. would naturally have more pres-
(ige with (he public than an ordinary, common
or garden painter and would get all the com-
missions, though the unlettered painter might be a
genius and the R.A.A.A. dull and conventional.
As evidence if not proof, take the thousands
of official portraits which have been painted
for the R.A. since its inception. How many
were by artists now regarded as worth while.
“F.S.”: Attended by half the beauty
and fashion of Melbourne and hung in
the Gold Room of the Hotel Australia,
an exhibition of portraits by H. Shefik
Bey was opened by the Lud Mayor, and
described as glorious works of art with
all the grace and charm that belonged to
a Europe that has gone. If the lud
Mayor is right, the artistic standard de-
manded by the Europe that is gone was
about up to the quality of a first-year
student at the Nat. Gallery in Melbourne.


"TRUTH IN ADVERTISING"
THE SENIOR STORE"
[823
■&
%■
's
mm
%
,r
>x~'
' X
*> %
ft
tmat*
\> 'STJ-'' ' /~3
V. CpOv cs
mm
P
/rjv.
y&m ■ . .o
ft
A
fTT^r.,
<Ts
ifete
ii
r
&&: 1
V>£s
3MB
PW.V
;
1 f
\i >■.; (-’•**)•
n
. \i sf'"n-
tdQm;
('i>W7:
- til#
f_'wj=--i=frv=t -o -a-
-x/
jSte*fc
«XLWIMSiI2
f! ***''
<hf
.
„\Wsxi.
X*:
,f /vX;.
If
i
i-S
p
M'
f^
i a
KFANE'S
i i
M
‘•f
fa?
s*g
72te WaAsJurute
m
':m^--y>
" ~J~lt£, S’-&vvUf s ‘is ! 5) 43
-TdL
CruA~
f ~e
oAaj
120&
/P4-3
df


RESCUE MISSION
By JOHN BRENNAN.
5 AID the Admiral: “These boys
deserve a chance, and I’m going to
see they get it. I think they’re
wortth risking ships for. If you
care to go along, well”
The “boys” were survivors from the
U.S. cruiser Helena, sunk during the first
battle of Kula Gulf on the night of July
6. Other survivors had been rescued ;
now two more groups had been variously
reported as having been taken from the
sea by friendly natives on an island in
enemy waters to the north of New
Georgia. Somehow communication had
been established, and the commander of
Amphibious Forces in the South Pacific
was determined on their rescue. A de-
stroyer group was detailed for the job.
We went along.
The plan was simple. The force would
run up under cover of darkness, estab-
lish contact with the men on the beaches,
pick them up, then run for home. Many
things might happen. The force was to
venture into waters in which no United
States ship had been since the early days
of the war in the Solomons. Three times
previously task forces had run into enemy
formations in the Kula Gulf area. This
time they were to go into waters beyond.
The success of the operation would de-
pend upon the accuracy of the timing ;
upon careful navigation in inadequately-
•charted waters ; upon a deal of good
luck.
Two A.P.Ds., reconstructed last-war
destroyers which have been fitted up as
auxiliary transports, and which have been
assigned to many ticklish operations in
the Pacific, were to carry out the actual
task of rescue, running close inshore to
pick up the men. Two separate groups
of destroyers would provide protective
screens.
The destroyer which led the expedition
lay off the beach, and we went out to
board her. The force formed up,
destroyer screen in front, A.P.Ds. in be-
hind. A northern course was set.
The ships steamed on through the
bright tropic afternoon. The breeze was
pleasant after the steamy heat of the
island. Flying-fish, gleaming silver,
skimmed out ahead of the bow wave. The
wide white wake of our ship left a foam-
ing track across the blue of the sea. Ihe
ship’s doctor showed us round: from
bilge to flying bridge he didn’t miss a
ladder or a hatchway. He’s a destroyer
man. A few miles away, islands on which
close fighting was still in progress stood
out clear.
The coming of dusk brought complete
blackout and the general call to action
stations. The hatches were closed ; men
lay sleeping on the deck beside their
guns, their life jackets and helmets along-
side them. Later they would be grateful
for what rest they could get. Those of the
officers who were not on duty call yarned
about their previous posts, about their
last leave ashore, about shore leave to
come. They grumbled a little at the
brightness of the moon, but they
grumbled more about the length of time
they’d been out without being able to
pick up mail.
The moon was near the full. It out-
lined the ships in sharp detail; the wake
gleamed a brilliant silver. Ahead was
the dark cone of Kolombangara,
At one end of the wardroom table a
four played bridge. Played it socially and
with frequent interruptions to fire a
broadside in the war in Europe that was
being fought out at the other end of the
table. Life-jackets and helmets lay piled
on the floor. About four hours after
sunset the speaker from the bridge
boomed suddenly “General quarters.
General quarters!”
The wardroom came suddenly alive.
A rush of men filed into the passageway
leading to the closed hatch, pulling on
jackets, knotting the tapes as they went.
A ’plane had been reported. Night-
glasses searched the sky. It passed over-
head, and a little later in the sky over
the near-by island there was the quick
flash of anti-aircraft fire.
After a time came the order “Stand
down.” From their action stations
round the ship the officers off watch made
their way back to the wardroom. But
the mood bad changed now. Bridge and
the war in Europe were forgotten. Life-
jackets were kept taped. Some of the
officers stretched out on a couple of
chairs, others lay on the wardroom floor
sleeping lightly. Speed was increased
now. Down aft at the fintails the vibra-
tion was more noticeable. The wake
boiled higher.
General quarters was set for a couple
of hours later. Everybody was waiting
for the signal. Within a minute of the
announcement over the “speaker” the
doctor and the messboy had the ward-
room to themselves.
The forward screen of Cans closed
formation to pass through the narrow
straits. These were Japanese waters.
They were Jap-held islands that showed
close in on each side. The beaches
were white in the moonlight. The line
of the surf on the reefs was clearly de-
fined. The ships of the force showed
distinct in outline for any observer to
see.
Somewhere north along the coastline
of that island which lay to port, two
groups of men, weary and tired, half-
clothed and fed for days on the scanty
food that the natives had been able to
provide, waited for the boats to come.
They had been warned of the time of
arrival. At that time precisely they were
to show a light to indicate their position.
We arrived at the point where it was
expected that the signal would be seen
ten minutes before the scheduled time.
Her speed was cut to five knots. She
stood in direct for the coastline, nosing
her way forward. The eyes of every man
topside who was not engaged with his
instruments were directed towards the
shore. The A.P.Ds. closed slowly up
behind her. The other destroyers in the
screen moved out on each side of them.
The minutes passed slowly. There was
no signal. The moon was high overhead.
Somewhere from up near the flying-
bridge one of the watchers reported an
object in the water ahead. All eyes, every
glass were turned to find it. “It’s a boat!
It’s a canoe! ” The whisper passed along
the ship quietly, but with an underlying
note of excitement.
Our ship was almost stationary now.
Slowly the object ahead drifted down
towards her. Every gun that could be
brought to bear on it—from forward
turrets and ack-ack platforms—was
trained down on the water. Slowly it
came nearer, and almost simultaneously
the words came from every section of
the upper decks It s a box a barrel.
It drifted away and behind to starboaio.
The A.P.Ds. moved slowly up past our
ship m line astern, fifty yards away to
port, and felt their way further inshore.
The crisscross landing boats that were
to run up on the beach were already
slung half overside. There was still no
signal
Then it came. Exactly on the scheduled
time. The brief flash of a white light-
and dead ahead
The two A.P.Ds. swung parallel to
the line of the beach. In the light of the
moon the boats could be seen in the water
and making away from the sides of the
ships. The trips to the beach had begun,
We swung away and out to join the
inner screen of destroyers manoeuvring
in patrol along the coast.
Every man in the forces was keyed up
and intent now. It seemed impossible
that our presence could have remained
undetected. If the Japs were coming,
now was the time they should come. If
only the breeze would bring up the clouds
to hide the moon. If only a rain
squall
Now began the seemingly interminable
period of waiting for the men of the
destroyer screens. Up and down, down
and up, back and forth the Cans
manoeuvred their beat, and every man
on deck let up on his watch to seaward
every now and again to turn his eyes to
where the two A.P.Ds. were still lying
close in offshore where they had made
the first contact. Would they never be
through? The second group had yet to
be located and taken aboard, then there
was the long run home down “The Slot”
between New Georgia and Santa Isabel,
If morning found the force still north-
ward of Kula Gulf there could not but
be trouble. And those A.P.Ds. didn’t
have the speed.
Would they never get the job done?
Away to the north the sudden bright
light of a flare hung in the sky. Hung;
began its slow descent and then blotted
out as suddenly as it had appeared. It
was thirty miles or so away. It must be
a Jap, for we had no known ’planes in
the area. Were they coming at last?
But the clouds were moving across
now to hide the moon ; there were rain
squalls inshore; and the two A.P.Ds.
were moving.
They’d taken just over an hour and a
quarter from the time of making the
signal contact to load the first group of
survivors. Another hour and three-
quarters was to pass before the A.P.Ds,
completed the second part of their rescue
mission. Just on three hours from the
time of contact Dent and Waters finally
stood out to sea. We swung our group
of destroyers into the lead. The two
A.P.Ds. fell in behind us. The outer
destroyer screen moved in to guard the
rear. The force was formed up and
ready for the race down “The Slot”—
and home. Still the Japs had not come.
There was heartening news to help
carry the force home. It spread from
ship to ship. The rescue had gone to
plan—lso survivors from Helena were
aboard the two A.P.Ds, They were
mostly well and in high spirits; there
were a very few stretcher cases. It was
the largest rescue job of any like nature
ever carried out in the South Pacific.
Said the guncrews and engineroom men
and the cooks and the radio men “The
Navy doesn’t forget its lads.”
Morse at Midnight.
Waking in your midnight bed,
Hear the Morse-key cricket sing
Above the footfalls of the clock.
Pull the blanket round your head;
Wrapt in sleep, the morning cock
Has his crest beneath his wing.
Every living thing it seems
Sleeps. In bed and nest and lair
All are trafiicking in dreams.
From their private worlds to this,
Those at sea and in the air
Send their lonely messages,
Troubling the winter night
With a whispered urgency.
So the wife w'ho lies alone
Hears, six hours before the light,
Storm in air and storm at sea,
Echoed in the cricket’s drone.
Following her ancient track
Through the navigable stars,
Soon this spinning earth will turn
House and city on her back,
Round until another dawn
Filters through our window bars.
May the music of the key
Guide the tired pilot home
To the beacon’s smaller Hcht
Though the migratory storm,
And no intruder enemy
Prowl beneath the stars tonight.
May no lunar forces lift
To the moonlight on the deep
Swell of the Pacific men
Who with whales and fishes sleep,
Cradled in the current’s drift
While to dreams we turn again.
R.A.A.F.
DAVID CAMPBELL.
DROUGHTS AND THE BOTTLE=OH
By LES ROBINSON.
THE bottleman thinks that the
drought that terminated some few
months ago was one of the best we
ever had. A gloomy man at any
time, his glumness and the pessimism that
afflicts him with it reach their nadir
always in wet weather.
His horse —by no means young, robust
or optimistic—does not, however, think
it was one of the best droughts we ever
had at all. The load of bottles he is ex-
pected to drag about, especially during
a heat wave, and which, when a little
heavier at the back than at the front of
the rickety old cart, threatens —and very
nearly succeeds at times —in lifting him
into the air, is in his opinion, and mine,
too, excessive.
It would be no good telling the driver
we thought so, though. We would sink
in his estimation if we did. He would
spit contemptuously, mumble to himself
and regard us as being crocks or weak-
lings, fit only to be knocked on the head
and carted off to the zoo.
The horse isn’t interested in bottles.
He loathes them, in fact.
One of his reasons for loathing them
is the chink, chink, clinking and jingling
they make, because, of course, these are
sounds of fragility. He knows that he is
expected to be surefooted, that if he
slipped and fell, or sat down on his
haunches suddenly, there would be an
awful clatter behind him. Broken glass
would be strewn about everywhere. He
would be punched, kicked, thrashed and
would have to put up, as well, with a tor-
rent of the vilest abuse imaginable.
So while the disquieting chink, clink
and jingling are filling his ears to the ex-
clusion of more agreeable sounds, he
must always walk carefully.
He must never let his thoughts wander
very long from the load behind him to
vacant allotments covered thickly with
paspalum grass, mixed sometimes, unfor-
tunately, with blackberry, or covered
with a luxuriant growth of succulent
thistles and perhaps even sorrel instead.
They’re somewhat sparse in dry weather,
though, those clumps and thickets, and
not nearly as tender as he’d like them to
be. Plenty of shivery-grass, no doubt,
but there isn’t much nutriment in it.
Dandelions aren’t hard to find either,
but they’re too bitter for him. He eats
only a leaf or two once a week as a kind
of tonic.
He envies the goats so often tethered
on all such vacant allotments and envies,
too, the butchers’, bakers’ and milkmen’s
horses that, while their masters yarn to
customers or to one another, have man-
aged to stray off the hot, hard and un-
interesting road and to succeed in rapidly
devouring large mouthfuls of the green,
perhaps even juicy, and delicious pro-
vender.
He snorts indignantly whenever he
thinks of his measly morning and even-
ing ration. Just fancy! One dipper only
of chaff, with a handful of corn mixed
in it! How could a conscientious, hard-
working horse like him, and elderly at
that, be otherwise than ravenous always?
Hasn’t his master, he often wonders, ever
noticed how scrawny the moke he owns
is? It’s a wonder he doesn’t hang his
washing on the projections instead of
using a clothesline!
<iWOU mightn’t believe me,” that
I dreary man drawled, in a voice as
lugubrious as his visage (what an under-
taker he would have made!) and with
a faraway look in his eye, “but lots of
attempts have been made by bottle-
makers, collectors, distillers and brewers,
working harmoniously together like and
in a secret kind of way, to cause droughts
artificially. ,
“Projectiles made of blotting-paper
have been fired from huge guns into rain
clouds. Immense quantities of exceed-
ingly dry compressed air have been re-
leased from balloons in their midst.
Water-diviners have been bribed with
cases of much more delightful liquids to
keep their discoveries to themselves, and
rain-bringers—those peculiar, misfortu-
nate kind of fellers, I mean, who always
seem to be follered about by wet weather
—have been got rid of quietly. Nothing
ever mentioned in the noospapers about
their sudden disappearance, of course.
“Magic, too, has been tried, especially
as a means of making thunderstorms miss
catchment areas and waste their drenchers
and hailstones by dropping them on to
sandhills or into the sea ; and, if you
don’t believe me, it only shows you
haven’t taken partickler notice of how
often they do that . . .
“How is it you never have any
bottles?” he mumbled, in an aggrieved
tone of voice, his thoughts now return-
ing to the more prosaic aspects of his
calling.
“I may have been a bottleman’s horse
in some former state of existence,” I
suggested.
“I won’t say you haven’t got that look
about you,” he said, as drearily as though
all the dinge and cheerlessness of the back
lane —for a cold and drizzling rain was
falling—had found their way inside him.
The horse, which had been wandering
knee-deep in the faultless vegetation of
a dream paddock, awoke with regret and
gazed round at me mournfully.


The Bulletin
Vol. 64.—N0. 3312.
Wednesday, August 4, 1943.
ANOTHER EPISODE FROM THE SENSATIONAL FILM SERIAL “ALONE WE DID IT.”


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper
“Australia for the White Man”
Directors:
H. K. Prior J. E. Webb
P. H. Prior David Adams
HEAD OFFICE: 252 George Street, Sydney:
Box 2521 BB; 'Phone 87971
Victoria: Newspaper House. 247-249 Collins
Street, Melbourne.
Queensland; 239 Adelaide Street, Brisbane s.
Westralia : 33 Barrack Street. Perth.
New Zealand: Nathan’s Buildings (opp
G.P.0.) Wellington.
London : I Hare Place. 47 Fleet Street,
London. E.C.4.
LET THEIR WORDS SPEAK.
“Blind to the dangers in the Pacific, the
Menzies and Fadden Governments had left
Australia very much unprepared. The essen-
tials for defence in the hands of the com-
manders, as the result of the previous Govern-
ments’ policy, were so sadly inadequate that
only a limited disposition of forces could be
made. But the Labor Government rejected
that concept. In association with the com-
manders, it developed a plan to prevent this
great country from being doomed. It rejected
the concept that the little islands to the north
of Australia could be taken, that upper Queens-
land and the Darwin area would be overrun by
the enemy.”
—Prime Minister J. Curtin; policy speech.
At three o’clock on September 6, 1939,
Parliament met at Canberra, The Prime
Minister, Mr. Menzies, announced that
three days earlier Great Britain had gone
to war against Germany, and that within
an hour or two a proclamation had been
issued declaring the existence of a state
of war in Australia.
“We,” said Mr. Menzies, meaning Aus-
tralia and Britain and the Empire, “are
together in this struggle, and we are con-
fident that our unity and determination,
being based upon justice, are bound to
succeed.” Honorable members said
“Hear, hear!”
When, at 3.55, Mr. Menzies subsided,
Mr, Curtin, as leader of the Opposition,
took the floor. Mr. Curtin was gravely
concerned. Now that it was war two
heavy issues weighed on his mind. One
was “conscription, to which we are
opposed” ; the other, “expeditionary
forces.”
Those two issues are, as the Government
knows and as the country knows, issues
upon which the Opposition is pledged, and
we are determined to maintain the views
and the principles for which we have
stood and fought while we have been a
party.
This having been laid down, others of
Mr. Curtin’s following—as many as could
catch the Speaker’s eye—took the floor.
In Mr. Blackburn’s interpretation of the
“views and principles” there was “no
objection to men going of their own
accord,” but there was “great objection
to the organisation of an expeditionary
force.” Mr. Beasley’s interpretation was
that “our foodstuffs and other require-
ments” should be made available when
needed. Mr. Ward demanded “a more
definite assurance” that the Government
was “not prepared to raise an expedi-
tionary force.” Mr. Ward stated also
that “a great deal of the responsibility for
the strength of Hitler today rests with
British imperialists.”
By the time they were all through it
had been made clear that there was
more to this than the ordinary super-
ficial differences of party politics. This
went down to bedrock. It was a funda-
mental difference. On the one hand, the
Government side, accepting as a matter
of course that the war meant the ful-
filling of a natural obligation, which Aus-
tralia would not shirk. On the other
hand, the Opposition led by Mr. Curtin,
determined that, so far from contributing
men to the forces about to meet the onset
of Hitlerism, Australia would stand out,
a spectator far from the arena, concerned
for itself, and itself alone.
It was made clear, too, that the Gov-
ernment was intent on forming a new
A.I.F. Perhaps it would even revive
compulsory militia training, which the
Opposition, as a Government, had “sus-
pended” in 1929. Everyone present
realised as well that the Opposition would
fight both measures tooth and nail.
Fight them it did, at every opening.
On September 20 it carried its fight to
the point of seeking to limit the fighting
area for Australians to within Australia’s
map boundaries. Mr. Curtin, as he has
done on occasion since, left the main
leading to Mr. Ward.
When Australia’s Defence Act was
originally framed, Mr. Ward contended,
“the Commonwealth had no external
territories.” In the meantime territories
had been acquired, and “We” —that is,
the present Victory party, which has
“kept the war away from Australia”—
“take very strong exception to its [the
Menzies Government] arrogating to it-
self the power to compel Australian
troops to go out of this country to de-
fend those particular territories” —mean-
ing in particular Papua, North-eastern
New Guinea (including Salamaua, Wau,
Lae and Madang), New Britain (includ-
ing Rabaul and Kokopo), New Ireland
(with Kavieng), the Admiralties, Bougain-
ville, Buka and others of the Solomon
Islands held under Australian mandate. It
had been argued “that it was just as neces-
sary for the defence of Australia to
defend territories in close proximity to
our shores as it was to defend Australia
itself.” If, Mr. Ward added,
it could be argued that one must defend
certain territories in close proximity to Aus-
tralia in order adequately to defend Aus-
tralia itself, defence operations could be
extended right round the globe
Here the policy speech of Mr. Curtin,
partner of Mr. Ward in the Victory
party, must be allowed to interrupt:
It [the Victory Government] determined,
and made the necessary provision, that the
battle for Australia would be fought in the
islands on the north, north-east and north-
west of Australia, and not in the environs
of the peopled areas of the Common-
wealth.
Mr. Ward, deputising for Mr. Curtin
on September 20, 1939;
The Opposition [the Victory party that
has fought the war in the islands to the
north, etc.) contends that the provision
[of the Defence Act] was only intended to
apply to those territories which were
administered by the Commonwealth at the
time the Act v/as passed, and not to those
territories which have since been acquired.
In other words, it applies only to those
territories under the direct control of the
Commonwealth but within the confines of
the continent of Australia.
, Which would, of course, most helpfully
blot out New Guinea and those other
“islands on the north” where (vide Mr.
Curtin) the battle for Australia has been
fought, not to say won.
Mr. Curtin, in the great struggle to
keep the fight as local as possible, fol-
lowed his deputy at some distance (Sep-
tember 21 ; “Hansard,” p. 977). Mr.
Curtin reveals a talent for putting it on
to somebody else, and on this occasion
he put it on to the trade-unions;
The trade-unions of Australia object to
conscription; they say that the law has
provided for conscription for the defence
of Australia only in the event of invasion.
Throughout the existence of this federa-
tion the word “Australia” has been under-
stood to mean the defence of the people
and the territory of the continent of Aus-
tralia Those territories which have
been added to the Commonwealth under
various arrangements, and other territories
which may subsequently be added, ought
not to be made the subject of conscribed
service.
We say that there should be no con-
scription of the Australian people for the
defence of Australia’s overseas territories,
which may be described as extraterritorial
to the continent of Australia. We say that
they ought to be defended by forces volun-
tarily recruited.
“Today,” says Mr. Curtin (policy speech ;
not without pride), “there are two mem-
bers of the militia to every three mem-
bers of the A.1.F.” Further: “When
Labor took office 431,000 men were in
the fighting services. Today the figure is
820,000.” Without a doubt, a cause for
pride.
The fifteenth Parliament met again on
November 15, 1939, and a day later Mr.
Curtin had the opportunity he desired
to expose the doings of the Menzies
Government in the meantime. And they
were dreadful doings—“the introduction
by the Government of compulsory
military training and its decision in
respect of an expeditionary air force for
overseas.”
As to the compulsory training, “I [Mr.
Curtin] say that we are against it. I see
no justification for it.” As to what has
become the R.A.A.F., the Empire Air
Training Scheme and whatnot, “ we
ought not to agree to the depletion of
our man-power, more particularly in
respect of our men who are trained, or
about to be trained, for the Air Force.”
Mr. Curtin’s policy speech again
interrupting (rudely):
When my Government took over, only
267,000 men had volunteered to fight any-
where in the world with the R.A.N., the
A.I.F. and the R.A.A.F. Today the figure
is 530,000.
“When Labor took office” (policy speech)
the “call-up of citizen forces [was]
limited.” Mr. Curtin, November 16,
1939: —
Yet this is the Government [the Menzies
Government] which affronts the patriotism
of the Australian people by the imposi-
tion of compulsory training. There is no
justification for compulsory training.
Before this memorable 1939 day was out
Mr, Ward gave voice to what was going
on in the minds of a singular partner-
ship ;
The sensible thing to do is to adopt the
suggestion of the leader of the Opposition,
Mr. Curtin; namely, that instead of carry-
ing on this stupid conflict [the war!] which
cannot bring benefit to the workers of
any country, an effort should be made, at
the earliest moment, to summon a confer-
ence of the major nations for the purpose
of ending it.
The other member of the partnership, in
his policy speech, accused his prede-
cessors in office of leaving himself, Mr.
Ward and the rest of the Victory
Government with the inheritance of a
heavy burden and Australia “very much
unprepared”—that is, for carrying on the
war! So much had allegedly been left
undone —for carrying on the war!—that
the “S. M, Herald” headed this part of
the policy speech “Australia’s Plight.”
“The A.1.F.,” Mr. Curtin proudly de-
claimed (policy speech), “has been in-
creased by 158,000 men, the vast majority
of wnom voluntarily transferred from the
militia.”
On November 29, 1939, Mr, Curtin
took the fight against forming the
A.I.F. to the point of asking Parliament
to declare itself “opposed to the dispatch
of expeditionary forces”! And Mr.
Holloway was prepared to “oppose, even
to the point of stretching the law to
breaking point, any proposal to send
Australian soldiers to fight on foreign
battlefields.”
This November 29 was the field day
of the fighters against the new A.I.F.
One after another they arose, had their
say, and deflated. All of them were
against sending a man one yard outside
Australia. Yet, says Mr. Curtin with
pride (policy speech): “Volunteers for
overseas service are now 70 per cent, of
total enlistments in all services.” A cause
for pride, without a doubt.
In his policy speech as leader of
the Victory party, Mr. Curtin implied
that his Government saved Australia by
recalling that same A.I.F. from the
Middle East. This, a member of the
A.I.F. (Major Wilson, Senator) has said,
is a high compliment to the two divisions
at first brought back (the other did not
come till a year later); but were there
no others in this country fit to defend it
in “the islands on the north”? A
country of 7,000,000 people—and two
divisions! New Zealand, with 1,600,000
people, recalled none.
“Blind to the dangers in the Pacific the
Menzies and Fadden Governments,” etc.
What, then, of their sending the Eighth
Division to Singapore? It arrived there
on February 19, 1941. The purpose was
to try to keep possible war with Japan
as far as possible from what Mr. Curtin
has called “the environs of the peopled
areas of the Commonwealth.”
Six months after the division landed,
seven weeks before the Victory party
took office and 15 weeks before Japan
struck Dr. Evatt rebuked the Menzies
Government for “alarming the people un-
necessarily,” the P.M. having said at
Adelaide that “the people are standing
hushed in their breath in the most vital
hour in the history of Australia.”
I have said publicly, and I now repeat,
that between August 8 and August 12 the
possibility of war with Japan was exag-
gerated. My colleague Mr. Forde has re-
ferred to the make-believe and the build-
up. The situation was supposed to be
deteriorating hour by hour and day by
day. That was an untrue build-up an
exaggeration... .a misleading impression....
the situation, so far from deteriorating,
actually improved. Dr. Page repeated the
statement that Australia was in imminent
danger of invasion... .An exaggeration
I say again an atmosphere of alarm ought
not to have been created.
Yet the Victory party alone was awake
to the threat in the Pacific.
These, then, are the Champions, the
Victory party. On their record they
could not be expected to admit that
everything they have been able to do
militarily has been possible only by vir-
tue of what their predecessors did in
spite of them. They could not be ex-
pected to admit that their “policy,”
based on their “principles,” was that
Australia, so far from ever being de-
fended in “the islands on the north,”
should have been defended within its own
map boundaries. Nor that, if they had had
their way, there would have been no
Sixth Division for Papua. Nor that every-
thing they have done has been done only
since the Japs came into the war —that
is, under the sheer compulsion of events.
Nor yet that, apart from what they have
done under this compulsion, they have
been for over quarter of a century, in
respect of Australia’s defence, the
Wrecker party.
Some strange things have happened in
this war, but none stranger, surely, than
that these self-styled Champions should
try to get themselves into office on the
grounds of their defence performance!
It sets a new standard in humbug and
hypocrisy.
Something Off the Slate.
The fall of Mussolini and his Fascist
regime is an omen of ruin to Hitler and
his Nazi regime. Dictators who make
war an instrument of policy must be suc-
cessful in war or they are doomed ; and
Mussolini’s doom was certain from the
moment the Eighth Army of the British
Empire threw the last of his ground
forces out of its last foothold in
Italy’s African empire, completing Mr.
Churchill’s prediction that Italy’s African
empire would be “torn to tatters. ’ Ex-
cept for Abyssinia, so criminally gained
and so soon to be lost, that empire was
of pre-Mussolini origin. Italians do not
lack intelligence, and 21 years of Fascist
rule, in which—to give the devil his due
—a ghastly sort of order was maintained
and some real constructive work was
done, could not reconcile them to a blow
so shattering to Mussolini’s prestige and
so wounding to their national pride.
Hitler’s doom, though equally certain,
is not likely to be pronounced this year,
and he may evade it next year. He has
been weakened morally by the collapse
of his accomplice and materially by the
loss of the Mediterranean, and for even
his dupes in his own country the charm
of Axis invincibility has been snapped.
But it is still within his power to carry on
a great Continental war and apparently
to make selected parts of Italy a
battleground, whatever the Italians may
have to say about it. The divisions he
sent to Sicily have fought stubbornly,
even fanatically, though it must have
dawned on them from the first that few
of their officers and men might leave the
island alive except as prisoners of war,
and there is no ground for expecting
that any weakening of resolution will be
shown by other divisions on the main-
land. After the crushing of the Axis in
Africa, Italy may have been recognised
as more of a liability than an asset to
Germany, as it was to the Allies in 1917.
To Britain and the United States, as Mr.
Churchill clearly sees, it will become a
liability again if the population has
to be fed, “garrisoned, policed and
administered—an immense task involv-
ing the gravest expenditure of power and
time.”
The way of the liberator is hard. The
Anglo-American forces discovered this in
French North Africa, but the political
troubles they encountered there, though
nasty, were trifling compared with those
with which they will have to grapple as
they advance into Europe. A foretaste of
what they may expect was given in Sicily.
While roses and raptures were still being
turned on for the Americans, a commit-
tee, headed by a certain Andrea Finoc-
chiaro Aprile, shot up with a demand for
Sicilian independence and an allegation
that Sicily had been “ruthlessly exploited
for the benefit of Lombardy and Pied-
mont.” The island has been part of the
Kingdom of Italy since 1860. Previously
it was ruled by the ruffian-king, infamous
in history, known as Bomba; and in
other ages it had Spanish and French
masters. No doubt Senor Andrea Finoc-
chiaro Aprile will find some foreign sup-
port, on the principle that the safety of
Europe can be secured by breaking Italy
and, when the time comes, Germany into
pieces, the smaller the better. It is impos-
sible to imagine Mr. Roosevelt and Mr.
Churchill going in for such a policy. One
sure result in each dissevered country
would be the launching of a unification
movement fraught with ugly possibilities
of another alliance and another war.
In Italy itself “anti-Fascists” are busy
with words and weapons. There may be
democrats among them —anyway, Italian
exiles in Britain and America and bodies
of sympathisers in both countries affect
to believe there are —but the predominant
and most active element is Communist;
and that means that the democrats will
be swamped. It always happens in these
cases unless a superior external force
intervenes: the extremists prevail, the
moderates lose either their identity or
their lives.
In the Communist view there is only
one war, the war against “Hitlerite Ger-
many,” and the object is to “liberate
Europe by “revolutionising” it. Infamous
as it is, and unspeakably impudent when
put forward by slackers, as is so often
the case, this idea has made headway
among sentimental writers and speakers
on both sides of the Atlantic. Them-
selves democrats by profession, and de-
voted, as they say, to the British or the
American way of life, they seriously con-
tend that a revolution is in progress in
Europe and that it is the duty of the
Governments at London and Washing-
ton to encourage it. Noxious specimens
even argue that as each Axis country is
beaten the occupying forces should stand
aside and let “anti-Fascists” smash
the skulls and cut the throats of all whom
they may be pleased to identify as
“Fascists.”
As the proceedings of the armies in
Tunisia and the occupied parts of Sicily
have shown, no such charter will be
issued to organised ruffianism anywhere.
But it may become necessary for Mr.
Churchill to announce that, just as
he did not become Prime Minister to
preside over the liquidation of the British
Empire, so he is not fighting to secure
or permit the Communisation of Europe
with ferocious preliminaries of civil war.
In Russia, after the expulsion of the
Polish representatives, a Free Poland
movement arrived, with a Miss Wanda
Somebody as high priestess or some-
thing. This has been followed by a so-
called Free Germany movement, which,
in the words of A. D. Rothman, “S. M.
Herald’s” excellent Washington corre-
spondent, has “puzzled and disturbed
inner circles at Washington and, it tran-
spires, London. Mr. Eden, part-author
of the Anglo-Russian alliance, was asked
in the Commons whether the Free Ger-
many Committee had been “established
under the auspices of Britain and the
United Nations.” In a tone he never


[For election matter in this issue, John
Edward Webb, Cecil Mann and David Adams,
all of George-street. Sydney, take the
resnonsibility.l
before adopted where the Soviet was Con-
cerned, he replied that Britain had “not
been informed in advance of the estab-
lishment of the committee,” and that “We
do not propose to recognise any similar
committee here,” whereupon there were
cheers.
In the United States, according to Mr.
Rothman, the manifesto issued by the
Free Germany Committee has brought
out “the ghost of th Comintern” again
and “precipitated in an acute form the
question of what exactly are Russia’s in-
tentions.”
It is widely interpreted as showing an
intention to Communise Germany. There
is reason to believe that the question of
the establishment of a Second Front in
Western Europe along the lines Russia de-
sires may depend on the exact meaning and
implications that the American Government
ultimately draws from the manifesto. The
mere defeat of the enemy is not the ulti-
mate goal, which is the future peace of
Europe.
During the same week Representative
Maas, of Minnesota, who has seen the
war against the Jap at first hand in New
Guinea and the Solomons, said in a
broadcast that unless the U.S.A. launched
“a real major offensive in the Pacific
now” Japan might never be defeated.
The “Beat Hitler First” policy is falla-
cious. By the time that happens all the
fleets in the world, containing all the war-
ships ever built, will not be able to break
through the chain of Pacific air bases.
If going into Europe brings too many
political headaches, Britain and America
might conceivably decide to beat Tojo
first. The splendid victories in the Medi-
terranean have made this shift of policy
as practicable for them as it is desirable
to Australians, New Zealanders, Chinese,
Filipinos, exiles from Malaya, Burma and
the Dutch East Indies, many of the
Canadians and probably most of the
Americans.
PLAIN ENGLISH
The Principal Factor.
“S. M. Herald” has published a series
of articles, the work of a special, on
Communists and fellow-travellers; and
they were very good. But in the special’s
account of the spread of the Red plague
and the things which have brought it
about there was one noteworthy omis-
sion—newspaper and radio reporting of
the Russian war. By producing the im-
pression that, thanks to the Revolution,
the males of all the multitude of races in
the U.S.S.R. have become supermen, their
generals all geniuses who have never lost
a battle, and their war industries miracu-
lous, performing prodigies of production
of the finest weapons in use anywhere,
this has done immeasurably more to help
Communists and swell their heads and
increase their insolence (witness the out-
rages on free speech and the right of pub-
lic meeting in the East Sydney electorate
last week) than all their propaganda and
white-anting.
The Russians began the war with a
population greater than that of Britain
and the U.S.A. combined, and, whereas
Britain had to bring over perilous seas,
with cruel losses of ships, cargoes and
men, nearly every war requisite except
coal, they had them all within their
own borders. Their army had 21
months in which to study and profit by
the campaigns in central, northern and
western Eurppe as well as North Africa,
and so far from “having a front on every 7
wave that breaks” (one of A. P. Herbert’s
lines on “this little island”) it had only
one, every rood of which was familiar
ground. And on other fronts its
foe was kept very busy by the British,
who had for 12 months not only thwarted
the military might of Germany but had
by a supreme effort—being desperately
short of trained men and equipment—
launched the offensive against Italy now
magnificently ending.
During the invasion, now in its 26th
month, the Russian soldiers proper, as
always when their country has been in-
vaded, have shown great qualities of
dogged courage and endurance in des-
perate hours and days. Thereby they
have ensured the survival of their nation,
whatever system it chooses to adopt and
whatever changes time may bring. But
the defenders were not all Russians im-
bued with the spirit of Kutuzov’s warriors
There was, for example, the “national
minority” which, according to Mr. God-
frey Blunden, broke at Rostov last year ;
and some of the famed revolutionary
generals failed so horribly that they had
to be replaced by younger men unknown
to readers of Communist “literature.’'
Moreover, Soviet war industries and
transport systems showed up badly
compared with those of the British Com-
monwealth and the U.S.A., whose effici-
ency and resilience, though there had to
be a change from a peace basis'to a war
basis, have been among the real marvels
of the war. So there were dreadful de-
feats, followed by the loss of rich regions,
much larger and more populous than
France and the Low Countries, which
the enemy still holds; and hence the
appeals for aid which had to be supplied
at great risk and with greater sacrifices.
This is the bare truth. Unfortunately
not a tithe of it has been told in Aus-
tralia, though the central facts have
appeared in some British and American
publications, and in Australia there exist
false impressions which have been dressed
up by knaves to catch fools.
A National Need.
While the chief political antagonists
were promising the man on the land
everything from ss. 2d. a bushel for
wheat to no work between meals, a voice
came from South Australia calling upon
the nation to realise that, unless it be-
comes alive to what is happening to its
soil and what may be demanded of that
soil in the future, it will not have many
farmers to propitiate at election time.
The voice belonged to H. C. Trumble,
professor of agronomy at the Waite
Research Institute. In South Australia
alone, he said.
About 80 p.c. of the perennial bushes
has disappeared from pastoral country;
around Jamestown alone 25 p.c. to 75 p.c.
of the surface soil has vanished from about
70 p.c. of the district. And wheat yields are
declining in many districts.
Much the same can be said of other
Australian farming districts. Soil ero-
sion’s a creeping leprosy of the earth
not seen except by expert eyes until the
damage is done. And immense damage
has been done while Governments have
been blinded and deafened by city inter-
ests.
In the U.S.A., with its immense and
powerful agricultural interest, the Gov-
ernment could no more ignore the dust-
bowl area than a Sydney Government
could ignore the collapse of its Harbor
Bridge. The U.S.A. tackled its erosion
problem and solved it. Australia can
do the same, but not while its poli-
ticians believe that the best way
to save the land industries is to take
subsidies from tax-revenues and pay
them to farmers. More Government
money per bushel or per pound or per
bale for land products won’t stop falling
yield and drought losses on denuded
country.
Dr. Trumble pleads for an awakening
of the national consciousness on the
danger. He declares that the life of
mineral resources throughout the world
can be numbered in decades at present
rate of consumption. Plant products will
have to provide many of the raw mater-
ials of the future, notably plastics. But
Australia is already in a fair way to lose
much of her plant-growing soil.
Australia needs a national Agricul-
tural Department, fully and adequately
staffed with the best brains it can
get hold of, fully and adequately financed
and divorced from party politics, into
which the present State departments
could be drawn as a nucleus from which
expansion can begin
With Labor's "Best Wishes."
Mr. Curtin and a Communist:
In “Digest of Decisions, Announcements
and Important Speeches by the Prime Minister,”
issued from the Government Printing Office at
Canberra, there is preserved a copy of a letter
from “John Curtin, Prime Minister,” to “E.
Thornton, Esq., General Secretary, Federated
Ironworkers’ Association.” The date is Novem-
ber 14, 1941, and the missive begins with a
reference to “your further letters of November
11” and “your further remarks in amplification
of the first communication you forwarded me,
dated September 17.” Then it goes on:
Your reference to unity I appreciate. It
is essential in regard to our war effort, it
is desirable in our movement, and I can
conceive of no reason why there should not
be complete unity within all the labor
organisations.
1 notice >ou have written to the A.C.T.U.
and would suggest you also refer your pro-
posals to the Federal Executive of the
A.L.P.
“E. Thornton, Esq.,” is the Communist of
that name, notorious prior to June 22, 1941,
for denunciation of “the imperialist war” and
advocacy of peace with a triumphant Hitler
and, while a British army was struggling for
existence in Norway, tor public expression of
the hope that “the ‘scabs’ of Downing-street
will be defeated”; notorious also for “planned
strikes... .we made strikes our business.” When
Mr. Curtin wrote that “your reference to unity
I appreciate,” and that “it is desirable in our
movement,” it is impossible that he could have
been ignorant of this Communist’s record.
There is no excuse now for his not knowing
it in every unsavory detail, yet his feelings
towards this Communist remain cordial. The
Communist and Second-Front-in-France “Iron-
worker” having gone out of existence without
satisfying the demand, obviously expressed
within the union as well as without, for the
publication of union balance sheets, the “Labor
News,” “incorporating the ‘lronworker’ and
the ‘Munition Worker,’ ” has made its appear-
ance. An eight-page paper of 40 14in. x 2in.
columns, with no advertisements, it will obvi-
ously eat up considerable supplies of newsprint,
and how these have been arranged for is a
mystery which it is up to the Government to
elucidate.
Mr. Lang’s “Century,” which had to miss
three issues because it had exhausted its news-
print quota for the last quarter and was re-
fused permission to use part of the present
quarterly quota, points out that the “Iron-
worker” “was not published at all in the base
year,” coming out for the first time in Novem-
ber, 1939 —“as a four-page monthly.” In the
new form it is “an eight-page paper,” whereas
the “Century” “has been forced to reduce in
size from 32 pages to eight pages.” A striking
example of consideration for the Communist
supporter and hostility to the Labor critic.
Nor is this the only example of the high
favor in which Thornton and his Red racket are
now held. In another letter, which will perhaps
be transferred to the “Digest of Decisions and
Announcements” as an important State paper,
Mr. Curtin expresses the hope that the “Labor
News” will “achieve outstanding and lasting
success, continually proclaiming Labor’s mes-
sage to Australia.” Hailing this “first issue of
your new publication” as “marking the associ-
ation of ironworkers and munition workers in
one composite body,” he extends “the best wishes
of my colleagues in the Commonwealth Govern-
ment and myself,” and asks “all members of
your union, through the ‘Labor News,’ to throw
in their whole weight behind the Labor can-
didates.”
Then came a reminder that “your best inter-
ests have to be preserved, not only from the
enemy without, during war, but from the enemy
within, during peace.” The enemy within!
Not the nefarious gang who campaigned against
what they called “the imperialist war” when
the Empire looked like going down and the
British people suffered the horrors and terrors
of the blitz, and who during that period of
agony made “strikes their business,” but pre-
sumably the loyal Opposition and the loyal
people they represent.
When he wrote his second letter to Thornton
the Prime Minister might not have been aware
that Thornton would take the chair in the
Sydney Town Hall when the Communists
opened their election campaign. But he must
have known that “the association of ironworkers
and munition workers in one composite body”
had no legal validity. Upholding protests by
unionists, the Commonwealth Industrial Regis-
trar refused his authority for amalgamation
because it was forbidden by the rules of both
unions—hi the case of the munition workers,
because the obligation to take a ballot of
members and secure a four-fifths majority had
been impudently set at naught. And although
Mr. Curtin used his authority with the Com-
monwealth Service Board and the Public Ser-
vice Arbitrator to force an iniquitous and doubt-
fully constitutional preference to public-service
unionists in matters of pay and travelling allow-
ances, he should surely have some respect for
an interpretation of Commonwealth industrial
law by the proper authority.
Doubtless emboldened by this second Curtin
letter, which appears on the second page of
the “Labor News,” Thornton blustered that
“the Industrial Registrar’s decision is bad but
does not upset the amalgamation; it only causes
it inconvenience.” Adding mendacity to effron-
tery he proceeded; “Our members have deter-
mined this question of amalgamation; the
amalgamation will be finalised.”
A lot of the stuff in this “Labor News” was
obviously written by Thornton himself, and
there are two (2) photographs of Thornton,
one taken with other union bosses who, like
him, though seemingly all or nearly all of
military age, have been excluded from the
call-up by Mr. Curtin’s Government. And there
is the familiar issue of matter cabled from
Moscow, together with another roaring demand
for a Second Front “across the English
Channel,” still “withheld because oi the influ-
ence of Municheers.” “Blows” at Italy and
other countries, it seems, “can only be subsidi-
ary,” and “the Second Front must not be a glori-
fied commando raid; it must be all out.” Delay
in launching it is “a direct encouragement to
the Japanese aggressors to open a ‘Second Front’
in the East against the Soviet Union.” Which,
considering what Britons, Australians, Ameri-
cans, Chinese and Filipinos have suffered at
the hands of the Japs, and considering that it
comes from a hulking Communist non-starter,
a leader of a mob whose cry for years was
that its country, “the workers’ fatherland,”
was getting ready to knock out the Nazis with
one hand and the Japs with the other, and
would start on “the Japanese butchers” as
soon as the ruffian Chamberlain was forced
to sign an alliance, must be nearly the limit of
chilled-steel Communist insolence. But no
doubt the Curtin Government will overlook
it and all the accompanying examples of larri-
kinism disguised as unionism.
For it is proclaimed that “all the powerful re-
sources of the Amalgamated Ironworkers and
Munition Workers’ Union,” which has no legal
existence, are to be used “to secure the return of
the Curtin Government with a majority in both
Houses.” “This was the decision of the
“union’s” “National Executive Council” and,
“as practical steps,” “General President Mac-
Kay” goes to Westralia, “General Secretary
Thornton” to South Australia, “Assistant Gen-
eral Secretary McPhillips” to Queensland and
“Victorian Secretary Flanagan” to Tasmania.
And, presumably, if anyone questions the
expenditure on this programme with a writ, the
larrikin-union formula will be applied—“ Put
the boot into the bloody ‘scab’!”
THEY'RE RACING!
"There is positively NO affiliation between this fellow and me!”


'THAT
m
rut
An Executor’s Task
is an Expert’s Task
Executorship is not a task lightly to be imposed upon anyone. It is not always
a kindly act to appoint a friend to carry out the responsible and onerous work
associated with the administration of an estate. With the best intentions in
the world he can fail to perform the duties in the best interests of the
beneficiaries. He may not survive the completion of his task and your affairs
can pass into the hands of one in whom you would have less confidence.
The obvious thing is to appoint an expert executor who never dies.
Burns Philp Trust Company Ltd. is a permanent institution under experienced
and capable direction. If you would like to have details of the service which
it offers write for a booklet which gives you all the necessary information.
DIRECTORS—James Burns - Robert John Nosworthv - Lewis Armstrong - Joseph Mitchell
Manager—C. H. Chester
Burns Philp Trust
COMPANY LI MIXED
1 BRIDGE STREET . SYDNEY^
PHONE: B 7901.
Box 543 B, G.P.0.. Sydney.
BP 4-43
THE ECONOMY SAUCE
Ml
SAUCE
SPEED VICTORY WITH
YOUR MONEY
BUY
WAR LOAN BONDS
POLITICAL POINTS
There are 346 candidates for the House
of Reps.—more than ever before—and
70 for the Senate —exceeded only in 1901,
when there were 127. And the number
of parties and groups almost defies
calculation. As in 1940, when no one
had the heart to put up against the
mortally-ill “Texas” Green in Kalgoorlie,
only one member was returned unop-
posed : “Rowley” James, of Hunter
(N.S.W.). James was a Lang man in
1931, and as such voted for the Beasley
motion which upset the Scullin Govern-
ment and led to Curtin losing his seat;
but Curtin has forgiven him and Beasley.
The Sydney A.L.P. executive, which
excluded old Arthur from its Senate
ticket, got a nasty shock when it saw the
nominations, for Arthur is coming out
against Amour, Armstrong and Grant.
Thereby Arthur has “automatically
placed himself outside the movement,”
but by virtue of being elected on October
23, 1937, he “automatically” retains his
seat till July 1, 1944. Also his vote —and
the party is desperately short of Senate
votes.
Dr. Evatt is back from another onerous
overseas mission, like the first faithfully
and fruitfully discharged, with (among
other things) big ideas about the future
of aviation and an abiding admiration
for the British people:
Still steady, determined, confident, not
complacent—the nation which went close
to disaster in 1940 but which emerged
triumphant from that crisis through great
leadership and its own monumental forti-
tude.
And the traveller found our lads in the
R.A.F. and the R.A.A.F. saturated with
this spirit;
We always think of our homeland, and,
although we are fighting the enemy from
Britain or from Africa, we are also fighting
for the Australia which we love so well.
Excellently put, and a very different spirit
from the churlish provincialism of
Beasley and Ward.
An old Sydnean happening into a
King’s Cross hall last Thursday night
would have thought the Rocks “push”
was back again. When a massive, sedate
man with an intellectual forehead and
grizzled hair appeared on the platform
the new “push,” which has taken a
political form and doesn’t fear the police,
greeted him with howls, yells, waving
hands and stamping feet. Men jumped
up literally frothing at the mouth; others
spun and waved wild arms at the crowd.
One ruffian threw a slab of pig-iron at
the monument of composure on the plat-
form. He took all that was coming to
him, said what he had to say, and, un-
disturbed, moved through the yelling and
threatening ranks of Red ruffianism to
his car. It was Robert Gordon Menzies
facing a mob of Communist larrikins —
and how he faced them!
Curtin to a party of Sydney news-
papermen :
1 know that to say that we can do with
one Government for one people is an unwise
thing to say politically when an election is
due.
But he said it, and it may be counted to
him for courage and vision. More
especially as his own State voted just on
two to one for separation on April 8,
1933. And his own electorate (he was
not then its member) contributed
massively to the majority.
Menzies, supporting Vincent Brady
against Ward in East Sydney, left a mob
of Communist larrikins in no doubt as to
his attitude towards them. “Who interned
Ratliff and Thomas?” roared a voice.
When his voice could be heard above the
din Menzies said “I did.” There was
another storm of abuse. Waiting till it
died down, Menzies leaned forward and
said “And I’d do it again.”
In a belated reference to the strike in
the Sydney munitions annexe Curtin
pleaded that the motive of the anti-
strikers was “political.” Paltry ; nor does
it alter the fact that the strike was pro-
nounced illegal by a Commonwealth
Arbitration Judge, and that Curtin refused
to enforce his own regulations against
the lawless mob. The anti-strikers have
the satisfaction of knowing that they did
not suffer threats and insults in vain.
Their game stand contributed to the
stiffening of resistance against the second
Sydney bread strike, which collapsed in
the fourth week, the strikers returning to
work on the pale promise of “an inquiry”
—the abject Sydney Labor “Govern-
ment’s” invariable expedient in these
cases. The Industrial Commission has
already held two bread “inquiries,” and
there have been umpteen milk “in-
quiries,” but because the chicken-hearted
Labor “Government” is afraid to tackle
vendors charging in excess of the fixed
prices there is to be one more.
For 21 years (1910-31) Edward Riley
was Labor M.H.R. foi* South Sydney
before it was altered a bit and renamed
Watson. The veteran died at the begin-
ning of the month. Had he lived and
retained his faculties for another three
weeks or so he would have been delighted
to learn, on the authority of a Maxie
Falstein pamphlet, that the electorate for
which’ J. C. Watson sat in 1906-10 has
never had “such an outstanding member
as Max Falstein,” Riley was content with
being a good party man, but “outstand-
ing brilliance, ability, integrity, intense
loyalty to his constituents and ability to
grasp and analyse the most complex
problems have marked” Maxie “out for a
future Ministry”—according to Maxie.
Menzies makes a point:
Having regard to taxation and economic
policy, no individual in this country can
grow rich out of the war. The group that
has made most money and achieved most
power as a result of it is the trade-union
movement, which pays no income tax on
its vast revenues.
It certainly should. Not, of course, on
legitimate administrative expenditure and
on amounts expended in benefits —though
in the new unionism benefits are a van-
ished or vanishing quantity—but on sums
appropriated to Labor or Communist
propaganda.
The Judge’s wife whom Curtin Labor
has nominated for Wentworth (N.S.W.),
not necessarily in the expectation of get-
ting the Judges’ vote, “wholeheartedly
supports” the socialisation of industry,
production, distribution and exchange,
and “the control and direction” of
“nationalised” banking and insurance by
“the elected representatives of the people.”
In effect, almost the entire Communist
programme except the revolutionary part,
and in favorable circumstances that might
be provided by persons such as those with
whom the lady has been seen on plat-
forms since she returned from a delight-
ful trip abroad, to storm at Chamber-
lain because he refused to send other
women’s sons to die horribly in the
Spanish Civil War for her brand of poli-
tics. And “when we win this war we
must make sure there is no unemploy-
ment,” so “there should be no need to
specify that soldiers should get prefer*
ence”; but she “specifies” that unionists
should get preference.
Needless to say, Curtin’s Government
is “planning a comprehensive programme
of national works,” but the only “pro-
ject” he mentioned in his policy speech,
styling it “a national necessity,” was “a
standard-gauge rail link between Broken
Hill and Port Pirie, and ultimately to
Fremantle.” Since it would mean side-
tracking Victoria, Victorian Labor
members are sorry he mentioned it; but
Fremantle won’t mind. Neither will
Westralian State politicians. State Gov-
ernment conversion of the 3ft. 6in. Kal-
goorlie-Fremantle line was promised
when the Commonwealth Government
agreed to join Port Augusta and Kal-
goorlie by the 4ft. B|in. gauge, but the
State politicians promptly forgot the
promise and hated being reminded of it.
“Australia,” Curtin says, “subscribes to
the principles of the Atlantic Charter.”
Does Australia? If so, Australia will
need a national Government, to which
Curtin is opposed, and a peace delegation
with persuasive eloquence, which Cur-
tin’s party cannot furnish, if Australia is
to clear the hurdle of clause 4, which
binds subscribers to the Atlantic Charter
“to further the enjoyment of all States,
great or small, victor or vanquished, of
access on equal terms to the trade and
raw materials of the world which are
needed for their economic prosperity.”
A Sydney writer surveying Queensland
election possibilities excludes Griffith
from its list of doubtful seats. Conelan
must wish he was as happy about it as the
surveyor. On September 21, 1940, he had
only 650 votes to the good in a poll of
61,755, 1347 informals included. The
subdivisions are Bulimba, Buranda, Coor-
paroo, Kurilpa, Maree, South Brisbane
and Stephens, Conelan led in Bulimba,
Buranda, South Brisbane and Kurilpa,
but the Labor vote slumped heavily in
these places at the recent municipal
elections.
Mr. Dedman is right in saying that
building thousands of houses or thou-
sands of washing-machines after the war
is as feasible as building huge C.C.C.
works or Bren guns during the war.
Whether Dedman’s party should be
allowed to build them the Dedman way
is a horse of another color.
Curtin, in September, 1940:
The Beasley group has no part in the
Labor movement; in fact, it has ceased to
exist.
He eveq called it a “scab” party. Did
Beasley suffer in silence? He did not:
My colleagues and myself are opposing
Mr. Curtin because he called upon us to
sign a pledge to an A.L.P. executive that
was irrevocably committed to the policy
of “Hands off Russia.”
It was their second estrangement, No. 1
having lasted for five years. This time
they soon came together again, first in the
Advisory War Council, and then in the
Ministry. And now they affect to believe
that the idea of associating in a national
Government with “Tories” like Page and
Hughes, with whom Beasley, Ward and
Lazzarini associated in the vote that
skittled the Scullin Government and cost
Curtin his seat, is too fantastic to be
considered.
Though the Commonwealth Govern-
ment had a deficit of over 400 millions
last year and the Sydney Government
had a surplus of a million and a quarter
or so, which could easily have been raised
to two millions, the Commonwealth
Government is finding £6500 for an
infants’ school and kindergarten at New
Lambton (N.S.W.). A pre-election sop,
of course, but, from the Australian stand-
point, calm, settled, imperturbable, driv-
elling idiocy.
Announcing the building of perma-
nent bulk-wheat elevators at Port Lincoln
and Wallaroo, Premier Playford of S.A.
said they would be erected by the Wheat
Board and bought by the S.A. Govern-
ment as soon as the board “terminated
its activities after the war.” Which seems
to suggest that, whether the war ends
soon or late, it will be many a long, long
year before the S.A. Government buys
the plants.
Paterson, the Communist lawyer, is out
for Herbert (Q.) again, and one of those
dashing fellows who dish up political
stuff for “capitalistic” Sydney papers ex-
pects him to win on Labor preferences.
Martens, the Labor member, has other
views, and so has the Oppositionist in
the field. Three years ago Paterson,
one of four candidates, got 11,104 pri-
mary votes out of 60,707, Martens getting
24,712. Romantic reporting of the
Russian war will help the Com. this time,
but against that he was heavily fined and
required to enter into a bond for having
tried to get the Townsville Council (he
was and is an alderman) to inform de-
parting A.I.F. men that “the present
war is a war to decide which group
of millionaire exploiters is to dominate
the world,” and that “soldiers’ commit-
tees” would be needed to “organise resist-
ance to every attempt to impose Fascism
on Australians by their own ruling class.”
Salt was into his wounds by
the court proceedings being brought sub-
sequent to June 22, 1941, when the war
“to decide which group of millionaire ex-
ploiters is to dominate the world” became
a holy war.
The Sydney Government has found one
way to use part of the huge surplus it is
socking away into a “post-war reconstruc-
tion fund”: “the bringing together of all
Government departments.” In other
words, a palace for Government em-
ployees, many of whom are unnecessary.
Australian taxpayers never thought that
part of their thumping war taxes would
be handed over to State Premiers for
schemes like that.
From the union-boss front:
Published by the Communist Thornton with
the blessing of Curtin and McKell, a so-called
“Labor News” is on the streets, with a copious
issue of larrikinism disguised as unionism and
Second-Front-in-France insolence. There is a
glorification of the 10-weeks’ strike against the
anti-strikers in a Government munitions annexe
at Sydney, together with a vulgar gibe at the
leader of the anti-strikers, a lady. There are
attacks on a “gang of disrupters” which has
“duped a few people into refusing to pay dues”
(to the “Amalgamated Ironworkers and Muni-
tion Workers,” which has no legal standing),
“into threatening to resign or, if non-unionists,
into refusing to join”—all exercises of lawful
rights which any Government with a proper
sense of duty would protect, but in these cases
met with savage threats of stopwork meetings
and boycotts. In one, after “the secretary,”
Mr. B. Flanagan, had “recommended a stop-
work meeting,” a union ballot decided other-
wise. “Mr. Flanagan immediately went to the
shop with two organisers and told the manage-
ment he would instruct the workers to cease
work immediately.” Thereupon “the union
asked that two men be dismissed,” and, show-
ing an ignoble spirit of surrender to larrikinism
disguised as unionism, “the firm agreed and
the two disrupters left the job.” There are
other threats of what will happen to men and
women working in Government munition fac-
tories if they fail to pay the private taxes levied
by Thornton and his gang at the time they
choose to fix. And all with “the best wishes of
ray colleagues and myself” (Curtin).


iitua
m
Look After What You’ve Got!
Get your Exide dealer to give your battery “the once over” occasionally . . . and
when replacement is needed remember . . . Exide Still Keeps Going When the Rest
Have Stopped.
BATTERIES
EXB2-42 . -
Lei this be Your
Wartime Slogan.
PERSONAL ITEMS
S.A., with only three K.Cs. remaining,
Ligertwood (Master of the Supreme
Court), Hannan (Crown Solicitor) and
Villeneuve Smith, has appointed two
new men for “silk.” Charles Lempriere
Abbott t was born in N.S.W., spent his
boyhood in California, but has been in
Adelaide since 1906, a barrister since
1914, and in S.A. Parliament for the
past 10 years. He was a leading lacrosse-
player at one time and is now State
president of the game. H. G. Alderman
is little known outside the profession, but
has a big reputation inside it. He had a
fine training, as articled to Paris Nesbit
and, after his admission to the Bar in
1916, partner of Villeneuve Smith.
Having gone over a million miles
in air travel Flying-Captain J. W.
Smirkoff, of the Dutch Flying Force
in Australia, is probably the most-
flown man in the world. In the
1914-18 war he was a flier with
the Russians; a refugee after the revolu-
tion, he took service with the K.L.M.,
becoming its ace pilot on the continual
run between Holland and Java ; ferried
refugees and their valuables from Java to
Australia when the Japs came, and, when
he recovered from the wounds received
when Jap attackers caused the crash of
his machine, joined the Dutch Air Force.
Flight - Lieutenant Graham Pockley,
D.F.C. and bar, delivers a neat introduc-
tion to the fine British air picture
“Coastal Command.” Early in 1941 a
Sunderland cruising around the Biscay
sighted a German R-boat. Fast,
manoeuvrable and packing a handy
wallop, this brand of craft is no easy
meat even for a 400-m.p.h. Mosquito.
Still, Pockley decided to “have a crack
at it.” He did successfully. There was
bigger game in Biscay, and Pockley and
crew subsequently bagged one of Musso’s
biggest subs., though only after a labori-
ous transferring of bombs from a jammed
POCKLEY, OF “POCKLEY’S
CORNER.”
rack. One day a war correspondent
happened in to Command H.Q. and saw
them putting a cross on a map with the
legend “Out of bounds; Pockley’s
Corner.” That bit of the Biscay off the
s.-e. tip of Spain, which still carries the
young Australian’s monicker, was the
unhealthiest spot in the Atlantic for Ü-
boats. Pockley’s tally was two destroyed,
three damaged, as well as the R-boat and
a brace of other naval vessels. Member
of an old Australian family, and a
nephew of writer Ethel Turner, Pockley
trained at Mascot and Richmond and
with No. 3 Squadron at Laverton before
going to England. The work which
earned him his double-barrelled decora-
tion was done with the famous No. 10
Squadron. Before joining up in January,
1940, Pockley was jackerooing in various
parts of southern N.S.W.
C. K. Denny, who suggested the
George Cross should be awarded to
Britain (B. 14/7/’43), is an Englishman
who came to Tasmania 22 years ago,
and established the lavender at Lilydale,
said to be the only real French lavender
in the British Empire. Prior to the war
the Bridestow Lavender Estate was
visited by tourists from all parts of the
world. Denny’s two sons are serving
with the British forces, and both have
been decorated, one with the M.C. and
the other with the D.F.C.
“J.H.M.A.” on Australia’s No. 1 Pilot:
William Ewart Hart, who passed out in Syd-
ney last week, held a leading place as a pioneer
of Australian aviation —second to none; not
even to Kingsford Smith. In 1910 he built the
first aeroplane to fly in this country, and 30
years ago was famous for the number of crashes
he had survived and the flying achievements he
had made with next to no material. He held
Australia’s No. 1 air license, and he was a pilot
in the 1914-18 scrap. His first ’plane was a
weird affair, and the one which he purchased
from Hammond soon after his early flights not
much less so. The present writer has vivid
recollections of a flight with Hart over Rich-
mond (N.S.W.) about 1911. The propeller
was behind and the passenger sat in a pre-
carious sort of seat aft of the pilot, hanging
on like grim death to a strut on each side with
an uncomfortable feeling that any sort of tilt
in the ’plane would decant him on to the
ground 1000 feet below. The old city of Parra-
matta was very proud of Bill Hart and for
excellent reasons. Apart from his flying abilities,
he was one of the best of fellows and cheeriest
of souls.
Walter Rudall, Commissioner of Crown
Lands in the Playford Ministry, is a
busy lawyer at Gawler, just outside
Adelaide, and announces his retirement
from S.A. Assembly to find more leisure
in the Leg. Council. He has lost both
sons in the war —one went with the
Sydney; the other, after service in Syria,
was sent to New Guinea and died of
wounds there.
In the limelight lately with a concrete
plan for Greater Melbourne after the
war, Frederick Oswald Barnett, F.C.A.,
was schoolteacher, public accountant
and Law Courts officer before he
started stirring Melbourne up about its
slums by writing to the dailies, basing his
observations on first-hand experience. He
followed this up with The Unsuspected
Slums, wherein he showed by description
and statistics how criminals are made.
When his second book was published in
1940 he was made a member of the Vic-
torian Housing Commission, and has
been the liveliest person on it ever since.
Barnett’s new idea is a five-mile agricul-
tural belt round the city from the 10- to
the 15-mile radius, wherein all sub-
divisional experts and suburban jerry-
builders would be shot at sight. Outside
the belt would be satellite towns. Barnett,
son of a Cornishman, is Melbourne-born
and 60.
A personality passes:
Harry Peck, doyen of Victorian stock sales-
men, has passed over. He was 17 when in 1878
he joined the firm his father founded, Peck,
Hudson and Raynor. Almost since then his six-
foot odd of bone and muscle and his command-
ing presence had been a feature of Melbourne
Royal Shows while his beard grew grizzled
and then snow-white. His familiars were Sid
Kidman, James Tyson, Sam McCaughey and
other giants in the sheep and cattle line, and
what he himself didn’t know about the jumbuck
and the stock-raising country couldn’t be found
in books. His Memoirs of a Stockman was
both a history of himself and of the stock
industry. For many years he was the only
Victorian auctioneer operating at the annual
wool sales in Sydney. Prior to the passing of
reciprocal legislation, Victorian auctioneers
could not conduct sales in N.S.W., and vice
versa. It was a bone of contention for many
years, especially in the Riverina. Harry Peck
got round the legal obstacle by leasing from
year to year a flat near the Musgrave-street
wharf, Mosman, which he occupied on his
periodical visits. His annual application on the
fourth Tuesday in November for the renewal
of his license was religiously but halfheartedly
opposed by the Police Department, which for-
mally lodged an objection to the granting of
the license on the ground of domicile. The old
firm of Fitzhardinge, Son and Houston was
always able to convince the Licensing rsencn
that, for the purposes of auctioneering, Peck
was a trustworthy citizen of the Ma State. He
was eighty-three at the end.
O. D. A. Oberg is “Ollie” to hundreds
in an extraordinary variety of places. At
school, in sport, business and politics he
has always done things on the scale of
his own physical frame, which is big.
Bom on the Riverina just on 50 years
ago, he won a bursary that took him to
Sydney High. He did things there in a
big way, and meanwhile he has played
A-grade cricket, tennis, football and
O. D. A. OBERG.
golf. Though he has never stood for
Parliament, he has been regarded as the
elusive Pimpernel of N.S.W. politics.
Under the banner of Sane Democracy and
the A.F.A. he has said his piece in the
Dom.; after one lively meeting there in
1932 the “Labor Daily” referred to Oberg
as the “well-known Domain orator.” For
32 years he has been in timber. His firm
is Thatcher and Oberg; he is a director
of Crown-street Women’s Hospital; past
president of Sydney and Suburban Tim-
ber Merchants; president of the Em-
ployers’ Federation and the Citizens’ Re-
form Assoc.; a Rotariart and a member
of the Savage Club. And that’s only the
beginning of his string of responsibilities
and activities. There are three sons in
his family of five: two are in the forces,
the other captain of Newington.
Queensland’s new Chief Inspector, C. J.
Perrin, is a man with police service in his
blood. Ninety years ago his grandfather
joined the Tasmanian force; then, 60
years back, his father also joined it. The
new Chief started with the force in
Queensland in 1907, but five years later
resigned to serve for some time as a
Papuan Armed Native Constabulary
officer before returning to keep law and
order again in Queensland.
Bert Jacobs, who succeeded Bill Perry
as president of Maoriland Returned Ser-
vices Association on the latter’s appoint-
ment as Army Minister, was in Mel-
bourne in 1934 representing the
N.Z.R.S.A. at the British Empire Service
League conference. Jacobs left Maori-
land with the 14th Reinforcements and
served in France with the 2nd N.Z.R.B.
until, badly wounded at Warneton, he
was invalided home. Born in Napier in
1885, he went from Victoria University
College, Wellington, to law. He has
found time for Rotary, Masonry, music
and the turf, as well as patriotic activities,
and has travelled the country on R.S.A.
work.
Three N.S.W. Digger triers:
Stephen H. Stack (having a shot a Warnn-
gah), William Cassie Milne (giving Mau.u a
a 0) and Vernon Lawrence (hitting at Hume) are
Three of the brigade or so of Digger acceptors
for the Election Stakes. All of them started
soldiering as gunners. Stack was with the 38th
Bty. till he was seriously knocked on the
Somme in 1918. He has been in Legacy since
its inception, and is one of the two men
mainly responsible for the establishment and
maintenance of the War Veterans’ Home at
Narrabeen, one of the finest things ever done
for Diggers. An only son (18) gave up a Uni.
career to get into the R.A.A.F. Milne can
put very stout planks in his platform—
he’s a wholesale timber distributor. With
the 7th F.A.B. in France and there-
abouts in the 1914-18 scrap, Milne first
tried politics as a starter for U.A.P. pre-selec-
tion when Bavin left the Macquarie-street hurly-
burly to become a Judge. Runner-up in that
event to Phillip Goldfinch (subsequently elected
unopposed), Milne had the stiffness to be
abroad when Goldfinch resigned. Next year
there was a general election and Milne was
headed by nine votes. He disputed the doings,
was upheld, but was beaten in the subsequent
run-off. Lawrence started gunnering in the old
militia. He smelt war looming in 1939, and
actually joined up for it before it broke
out. Getting away with the new A.I.F.
as a lieutenant, he was in the Middle
East from 1940 to 1942, and is now a major
with a tank outfit. For the election he has been
granted leave “without pay and without uni-
form.” Major Lawrence is founder and manag-
ing director of Murray Valley Coaches (motor,
that is), a big concern which provides transport
between all Murray Valley towns from Albury
to Adelaide and Albury to Corryong, a pretty
tidy mileage.
Had a 102nd birthday, Capt. W.
Robertson, of George Town (Tas.) and
formerly of the Seven Seas. There s
hardly a country in the world the skipper
hasn’t seen. He was born in Launceston.
The Japs have good cause to fear the
forthright William Frederick Halsey,
American Commander in the South
Pacific. Named full admiral in Novem-
ber, 1942, Halsey is seventh on the list.
He and Admiral Nimitz have each had
24 years’ sea service ; a record exceeded
only by Admiral King (27 years). In
1917 and 1918 Halsey did destroyer work
in the Irish Sea and the North Atlantic.
He was Naval Attache in Berlin for two
years, then went back to his destroyers.
In 1934 he took on active flight-training,
pushed through the full course, includ-
ing training in single-seater fighters, and
came out with his wings. The experience
helped him in his pre-war command of
the carrier Saratoga and later as com-
mandant at the training school at Pensa-
cola. He was at sea as Vice-Admiral in
command of the Aircraft Battle Force of
the Pacific Fleet at the time of Pearl
Harbor, and a couple of months later he
led a task force against the Japs in the
Marshalls and Gilberts. Hence his
D.S.M. He is 60.
Into the silence:
At Dunedin, at 82, Maoriland’s oldest prac-
tising medico, Dr. James Fitzgerald. A native
of Banks Peninsula, Canterbury, he graduated
at Otago Uni. in 1885, taking prizes in chemistry
and surgery. He did the same later at Ldm-
burgh when he collected his M.B. and C.M.
Three of his sons are medicoes.
At Ballarat, at 71, William Humphreys first
chairman of the Victorian Egg Board and one
of the State’s largest poulterers. In the days
of the South-street band competitions, when
bands came from all parts of the ? Common-
wealth, he was drum-major to Prout’s.
At 73, at Auckland (M.L.), newspaper knight
Henry Horton, of the family which partly owns
the Auckland “Herald.” His father, a hard-
headed Yorkshiremen, took over possession
of the paper many years ago, and, with his
partner Wilson, succeeded in turning it into the
best daily in M.L. Knighted in 1935, Horton
practically died in harness.
At Yeppoon (C.Q.), at 90, Victor W. Buck-
land, who came to Queensland on a tramp ship
and subsequently owned Trafalgar station and
later Wendal (Capella), the station he had
gained his experience on. It was Auckland who
put up the record ride of 240 miles on one
horse in 38 hours to bring a doctor to the
station manager’s wife.
In Melbourne, two months off his 103rd niile-
stone, William Spence Mappin, coachbuilder.
Governors and their ladies rode round in his
equipages. He headed south from Sydney in
1845 when Melbourne was a village. Two ol
his sons are in the army, one a chaplain.
At 77, in Melbourne, James Herbert Disney,
M.L.C. for Melbourne West for 27 years. He
was an hon. Minister with both Hogan and
Prendergast. A Labor man, he sat in the same
House with his son, U.A.P. rep. for Higm-
botham Province.
Accidentally killed in a ’plane crash in Papua,
Captain Francis E. Williams, for many years
a notable figure in that northern outpost;
Government Anthropologist of Papua; editor
for 16 years of the “Papuan Villager. Adel-
aide Rhodes Scholar (1914), he was a 32nd Batt.
lieutenant in France, and served with the
Dunsterforce in Persia. A Wellcome medal-
list and Cilento medallist, he wrote a number
of authoritative books on the Papuan natives,
and in 1937 represented Papua at the Education
Conference at Honolulu. ________


Society
"AND IT'S PRINTED
WITH WIMBLES INKS"
“K.”: 1 have some sympathy with the
bridge player who, when his wife bumps
his bid of one spade to four spades on
the strength of holding the deuce, four
and seven and a king of another suit,
rises up and strangles her; also with a
crib player who, when his partner leads
off with a five while also holding three
aces and their opponents need only to
peg two to win, hacks the miscreant’s
head off. These be grave matters, but
that any fellow should work himself into
a rage over euchre —euchre ! —is past
understanding. A Sydney divorce court
has thrown up such a freak —a husband
who belted his spouse around and then
threatened to shoot her because she
trumped his trick. Ye gods! If he’d had
the instincts of a normal man he’d have
dropped quietly off to sleep during the
inevitable first post-mortem over the first
hand of the “blackfellows’ game.”
* * * *
“Nipper”: Six hours after the first
news came through of Musso.’s being
heaved out my afternoon sheet was tell-
ing me, in different columns, that the
Nazis were (a) pouring into Italy over
the Brenner and ( h ) hurrying out of Italy
over the Brenner. The Germans, of
course, always do things thoroughly and
fast. But they had nothing on the Italians
in Milan, who, according to that same
issue, were already singing anti-German
songs. I doff my Akubra to the Eyetie
composers who turned out the tunes, and
to the librettists who so quickly dis-
covered a hatred for Muss, and his ally.
What it is to be a musical people!
“Polto”: I suppose everybody is en-
titled to kick Musso. now that he’s down
and out, and there’s some justification in
the writing boys and cartoonists going
crook, for Benito provided both with end-
less subject matter. In recent years most
of them have adopted the “sawdust
Qesar” line, painting Muss, as a comic
figure, and in this light he has been a
humorous relief against the black back-
ground of war. It came as a bit of sur-
prise to find a Sydney daily publishing a
New York story anent an elderly
Russian woman, a one-time “organiser
and propagandist of the International
Labor Movement,” who claimed that in
his early days Muss, came to her, having
“slipped over the Swiss border a dirty,
hungry, frightened army deserter,” with
the confession that “a social disease and
an alcoholic origin are all I possess.”
The lady thoughtfully denied ever having
played a leading part “among Mussolini's
love affairs.”
*
“Bohemian”: Maoriland Judges merely
blink mildly when addressed as “your
Highness” or “your Lordship” (their
style, as in Australia, is “your Honor’),
but Justice O’Regan got a real shock
when, as he ascended the Bench at Grey-
mouth, the court orderly thundered
“Silence for his Majesty, the Kings
Judge.” O’Regan tried to look as if he
hadn’t noticed, but there was a twinkle
in his eye.
% *
“Cauboy” laments these times and
manners:
A cursory study of my Melbourne morning
mentor during the late State election has
brought me to the melancholy conclusion that
ways of thinking haven’t changed since Federa-
tion and that the technique remains as simple as
before that great constitutional change which
was to bring in the Australian millennium. If
a newspaper's party leader’s policy speech is
described as “a comprehensive programme of
construction” the policy speech of the opposing
party is “unscrupulous electioneering propa-
ganda.” When any member of the newspaper's
party comments on the statements of a member
of the other side it is “trenchant criticism.”
The other side’s effort is “a vulgar campaign of
personal vilification.” When the newspaper’s
favorite politician—beg pardon, statesman —is
heckled he is reported to have been the victim
of ill-mannered interrupters. When the rival
candidate has something nasty shouted at him
it is “a shrewd thrust.” The same holds true
in the pictorial division. The newspaper’s poli-
tical favorites are depicted, as far as the car-
toonist’s means of- expression will allow, as
noble, disinterested, heroic creatures with some-
thing leonine about them, while the scoundrels
on the other side have a resemblance to rats,
wolves, hyenas, vultures and other baser
members of the animal world.
jf: H* * '•£
“Arter”: When what is called “mod-
ernist” art began to be boomed (and that
was a great many years ago) I and many
other easygoing souls said to ourselves:
“It looks all wrong and mad, but there
may be something in it: perhaps it will
make itself clear in time, just as hap-
pened to the works of Wagner and De-
bussy.” But it hasn't. The reason why
is supplied in a letter in “S.M.H.” in
reply to a correspondent who wanted to
know where the art came in in
“modernist art”;
To the artist... .life is a succession of
memories regained and refreshed, colored
“Keep her headed into it an' We're jake—they never fall twice in the
same spot!”
with his personality, slowly taking concrete
shape and meaning within himself. It is to
this inner vision, of which the physical is
only a symbol, that the artist seeks to give
expression. He reveals thereby worlds of
. whose existence the academician is quite
unaware, and which he therefore denies,
v»/ Ll^t-l ncapa C ° understandmg -
We Philistines, poor dubs, lack the inner
vision ; we cannot share the individual
personal memories of the artist—
memories that may cause him to think of
and draw snakes when he sees a vyine-
glass and therefore we are cut off for
ever from those worlds where magenta
elephants are a symbol for rubbish-bins
and putrescent corpses represent the re-
vitalising influence of spring. So we’ll
just have to make the best of the hum-
drum plane on which we are allowed to
live. By the way, I often wonder how,
when a modernist painter buys a pound
of butter, he knows what he is getting.
“ There'll be no parade on Sunday , so you can spend the day with the
missus and kids.”
“Clooter”: A story is going the rounds
in our suburb concerning a chap who,
suddenly tiring of domestic life, up
and departed for parts unknown, leaving
a wife and three offspring. A philosophic
sort of female, the wife remarked at the
time “Well, I reckon he’ll come back
when he’s ready.” He became ready about
a month ago, established contact with his
deserted family, and sought rehabilita-
tion after four years. A triumph for
love? Well, maybe, but the wife’s having
won money in the lottery seemed to have
something to do With it. Anyhow, the
subbub is enjoying the spectacle of the
returned wanderer paying court to his
lawful missus with all the eagerness of
a youth on his first romantic adventure,
having taken up residence in a board-
ing-house near by.
* * * *
“X.S.”: lam interested in a possible
relationship between the prevalence of
colds and the national habit of nose-
blowing. Everybody has a cold in Mel-
bourne, and complications run from sore
throats and earaches to antrum and sinus
trouble. Dr. John Dale, the city health
officer, used to advise people not to blow
their noses, as it only propelled a blast
of germs at high pressure into every
other cavity in one’s top-piece, and I am
inclined to think he is right. A friend
of mine decided to follow
his advice and found that
for the first day it re-
quired a heroic effort, but
after that it became as
natural as it is in children,
who don’t acquire the habit
until it is forced on them
by their parents.
# :J: Hr
“C.Q.”; Exit in an out-
of-date Air Force uniform
from the Ararat (Vic.)
mental hospital, Alan Tor-
ney, known to the more
colorful newspapers as “the
Snowy River bandit.” In
1940 Torney, a bush worker,
got a grouch about some-
thing and took to the wild
country around Orbost with
a rifle. He fed himself and
increased his armament by
raiding isolated settlers’
houses, establishing a minor
reign of terror in the dis-
trict, A cordon of police
and volunteers several hun-
dred strong threw a net
round him and gradually
drew it closer, but it was 39
days before he was rounded
up. He was charged with
shooting with intent to kill, but was sent
untried to Ararat as a certified lunatic.
There he behaved so quietly that he had
been allowed to wander pretty much at
wi |] ti)l bp bolted He was at lihertv for
”,‘ Im ne DoUea ’ was at UDerty lor
days.
* * * *
“Adelaide”; Lady Astor is in the news
again—at Bow-street this time. She was
fined £5O for having tried to get rationed
goods from her native U.S.A., the magis-
trate describing her plea of ignorance of
the regulation as “astonishing and start-
ling,” A few weeks previously the lady
made the front pages by discussing the
Unofficial Wives question in the House,
ending with the verdict “No man has any
right to have a mistress.” The response
from the nation’s lawgivers was “loud
and prolonged laughter.”
* * * *
“S.T.S.”: Found, in the dredging of
Adelaide’s Torrens Lake (which is really
the little river effectively dammed just
below the city), a diamond engagement
ring, valued at £5O. It was dropped from
a rowing-boat in March, but the opti-
mistic pair waited till the lake was
emptied for its annual overhaul, and then,
with three or four hours’ steady mud-
grubbing, recovered it. Also, by a chance
which would be scouted as fantastic if
you put it in a novel, they found in the
mud a wedding-ring as well.
* * * *
“Feng-Shui”; Australian technicians
who built a Zero Mark II fighter out of
five wrecked Jap ’planes brought from
New Guinea expressed themselves as
amazed at the excellence of the Japanese
workmanship, the finish of the parts and
the quality of the metal of which it was
constructed, as well as with its perform-
ance. The feature that impressed them
most was the ’plane’s extraordinary light-
ness. It proved to be less than a third of
the weight of the lightest Allied fighter in
commission. Lightness of construction is
a characteristic which runs through every-
thing Japanese. If a quarter-mile street
of houses with all their contents in Tokyo
could be weighed the tally would prob-
ably be less than that of a single Aus-
tralian suburban villa. The average
Japanese, even in the bitter winter, is
more lightly clad than the average Aus-
tralian male in summer. A day’s food
for a Japanese would hardly make a
breakfast for an Australian youngster.
Economy in the use of materials is intui-
tive with the people of Nippon, partly
because of large population and poverty
of resources, but also because of a tradi-
tion of simplicity of living created in
other days by their artists and poets.
“ADVANCE, AUSTRALIA FAIR.”
“Plaintive arid overworked.”- — “S. M. Herald.’’
A slab of dispirited jingle,
A sadly anaemic affair,
Where verbal inanities mingle
With a twopenny-halfpenny air;
And surely, of all compositions
Produced by our bards and musicians
Of various sorts and conditions.
The best we could spare.
To whom that it’s likely we owe it,
I gather, is cause for dispute,
But his claims to be ranked as a poet
May well be dismissed as minute.
While the comrade he gave it to play with,
And find it the music to stay with,
Was hardly, one fancies, an fait with
The fife or the flute.
Strains couched in melodious metre
To the listening ear may be treats,
But others, unheard, may be sweeter
fYou’ll note that I’m quoting from Keats);
A wholesome reflection to copy
For staves that are mushy and sloppy,
With sentimentality soppy
And plaintive with bleats.
It's ticketed tedious and tiring.
Is there never a patriot to pipe
An anthem a bit more inspiring
And nearer traditional type?
Though far from exacting there’s many
Will echo the dictum of Granny
In doubting the present one’s any-
Thing better than tripe.
Have we never a Campbell or Kipling
To burst into passionate flood
Of minstrelsy stirring and rippling
That acts like a fire to the blood,
Some ditty to shout and to sup to.
For clinking and sinking a cup to?
There’s nothing our stopgap is up to —
Excepting it's mud.
N.S.W.
T. THE R.
HIS CROWNING BLUNDER.
Times there have been, it's not denied,
Since war's grim problems first arose
When well-laid schemes (on either side)
Advantaged no one but their foes.
Pearl Harbor may be one of those
That merely waits for time to show.
Another came when Hitler chose
To aim a punch at Uncle Joe.
The towel, he reckoned, would be skied,
His aims be gained, one may suppose,
Before the blessed Christmastide
Of Forty-one should see its close.
He banked on bitter, blitz-like blows
Two years—and rather more I—ago 1 —ago
To compass Ivan’s overthrows
When Adolf took a sock at Joe.
He trod the trail Napoleon tried
Across the scowling steppes and snows,
But overlooked or misapplied
The lesson taught by Boney’s woes.
Will history repeat? Who knows?
Yet doubts in Adolf’s mind must grow
He failed to weigh the cons and pros
The time he locked his horns with Joe.
One’s heard the whirlwind prophesied
For those to reap, the storm who sow.
What fateful forces were untied
When Adolf took a sock at Joe!
N.S.W.
IFORD.


“Pink Tape”; Wirth’s Circus came to
town just at the time of one of the
periodical attempts to check off the s.p.
agents in our department. Snapper had
been on the carpet, and made no secret
of his belief that some of his clients had
put his pot on. “I see by the handbills
the circus has brought a two-faced cow
to Sydney,” he fumed. “That’s coals to
Newcastle. This office is full of ’em.”
* * * *
“Ike Hollar”: Sydney has just seen the
strangest queue in its history. My in-
quiry whether a bookshop had taken to
selling cigarettes as a side-line brought
merely frozen silence, garnished with a
look of scorn, from most of the people
in a long line; one was informative.
This was a Bible queue, he said. The
crowd had been gathered by a report
that this shop had a new stock just in.
My informant and his wife wanted to
send a copy of the Good Book to a
soldier son; probably numbers of others
had the same idea.
* * * *
“Melbn”: Melbourne City Council is
gravely concerned about a rat plague,
but seems to have no very clear idea of
how to deal with the menace. Perhaps
a hint could be gained from the way the
Queensland authorities dealt with it
many years ago during a bubonic plague
scare. An old school was notoriously
rat-ridden. Doors and windows were
closed, a trench was dug round the build-
ing and filled with tar, and a bonfire
was made of the school. The rats bolted
from the building, fell into the moat and
perished.
#
“S.T.S.”; “Southerly buster,” a term
hitherto unknown to Adelaide (which
calls the thing just a “cool change”) has
found its way to that city at last as the
name of a cocktail. A girl old enough to
be just engaged to marry, but too young
to be allowed drinks in a hotel lounge,
was celebrating mildly in a leading hotel
when the proprietor was charged with
“supplying liquor to a female under 21.”
The defence was simple but proved
effective; the “southerly buster,” as S.A.
knows it, and as supplied to her, is just
a big name for a harmless mixture of
limejuice and ginger ale, with lemon,
cucumber and ice. Case dismissed.
* * * *
“Cauboy”; A Melbourne critic has
been going round boasting of the grand
deal he made the other evening. Arriving
at a concert without a companion he
offered his spare ticket to a lone Allied
soldier who had been excluded, the house
being sold out. The grateful soldier
offered his benefactor a sum which would
have bought a box at grand opera,
naturally refused by the critic. But he
did not refuse a packet of imported
fags of a quality you can’t get now in
Australia for love or money.
* * * *
“Caesar’s Ghost”: A newspaper critic
of a recent performance of “Twelfth
Night” at Sydney Royal, mentioned that
the Bard’s lines had been “faithfully
given” with no attempt to introduce
gagging lines. To experienced theatricals
the idea, growing in intensity, that no
“gagging” is permissible in Shakspeare
or Gilbert and Sullivan must seem extra-
ordinary. Introduction of local and topi-
cal allusions has been traditional in some
of the plays—for instance, the grave-
diggers in “Hamlet” used to add a few
quips about the departed, giving him the
name of some not-very-popular local
medico. “And this —this is all that is
left of Sawbones. Aye, he sent many
poor mortals to fill these graves, but he
had to join his victims at last.” That
sort of quip always “went big,” and it
was written into “Hamlet” scripts with
the name left blank. In G. and S.’s
“Patience” the lines
On forces that glow with heat intense
I turn the hose of commonsense
referred always, in metropolitan per-
formances, to the then chief of the Lon-
don fire brigades, as was made clear, and
in other localities the reference required
to be coupled with a local and appro-
priate name to make its point with the
audience. But there was a howl in Mel-
bourne years ago when the interpola-
tion was made, and ever since Australian
producers have had to refrain from
attempts to acclimatise Gilbert and bring
him up to date.
* * * *
“Strict Veg.”: A collection as irre-
placeable as any in the National Gallery
was sold by private auction in Melbourne
the other day. It consisted for the most
part of single bottles of rare wines and
liqueurs donated by their owners in aid
of war funds, and included champagne
as served to the last of the Kaisers;
Chilean hock ; tawny port of remarkable
antiquity; Muscat from the Crimea;
century-old Madeira ; “Goldfish” liqueur,
which, according to the legenda, was dis-
tilled in golden utensils ; a flask of Aqua
Vita;, originally a gift from the
Government of Denmark; Benedic-
tine and other French liqueurs which
had been preserved in a private
cellar for 50 years, and a bottle
of Chateau d’Yquem, 1921 (one of the
greatest vintage years in French history).
It was the rarest collection of wines that
had ever been seen in Melbourne, and
half a guinea was charged for the mere
privilege of being present during the
ritual of disposal.
* * * ♦
“Wodgil”: Four Sydney editors and
at least one in Melbourne were young
people in Perth —in one case, moderately
young—when Walter Murdoch arrived
there to become Professor of English at
the university of which he is now Chan-
cellor. I don’t know whether they came
under his influence, but I am sure the
Murdoch influence and example have
contributed to the making of native-born
writers, and they are no mean band. To
one, Xavier Herbert, Port Hedland’s son,
a magnificent compliment has been paid
by the New York “Post,” American re-
views of his “Capricornia” have been
uniformly favorable ; the “Post’s” ends
with the words “This is the great Aus-
tralian novel —nothing even remotely
approaching it has come from the Land
Down Under.”
jf*
“Lao-dah” remembers Rome:
One of the strangest experiences Rome pro-
vides a visitor in peace-time is a ride in a
rattling electric tram through streets lined
with modern buildings which suddenly brings
one to the Colosseum or the great square of
St. Peter. In Paris, old and new have an
orderly marriage, but in Rome the new and the
old are muddled in confusion, and the vast,
vulgar white Victor Emmanuel monument, with
its ramping horse (in whose belly 17 architects
ate a banquet), swears at the ancient temples and
“ Dammit , can't your Wrans find a less conspicuous place to hang all
these — er — knick-knacks ?”
the basilica adjacent. The most modern region
is north-east and east of the Campus Martius
and beyond the Corso. It contains the Chamber
of Deputies, the Law Courts, the Bank of
Italy, the Ministry of Marine and the Foro
Mussolini. The Palatine hill was the nucleus
of the ancient city. The other six famous hills
were fused and enclosed in a wall in the sixth
century. Augustus, the first big builder, erected
three groups of public buildings in the Campus
Martius, restored and built temples and pro-
vided the Romans with their first public baths.
Nero caused a house shortage by occupying a
whole district with his Golden House. Ves-
pasian built the Colosseum. Trajan replaced
Nero’s Golden House with enormous public
baths, and Hadrian went one better than his
predecessors by building an enormous villa at
Tivoli, and a mausoleum which subsequently
became a papal fortress and figured in “La
Tosca.” Then the Popes got busy. It was
Sixtus V who gave the city the appearance
it had until about 1870 and who rendered the
hills once more fit for habitation by building
an aqueduct in the manner of the early Romans.
The congested modern city and its suburbs date
from 1870. The reason why there are so many
buildings in Rome which were modern in their
time but yet had something of the universal
about them is that all the builders used
the Colosseum, the Forum and other ruins as
convenient quarries and merely rearranged the
columns, entablatures and mouldings they
pinched. It wasn’t until the modern era that
the architects tried to introduce other styles,
with deplorable results.
* * * *
“Sixenate”: According to a witness who
gave evidence concerning a brawl in which
half a dozen women were concerned, their
shoes are the usual weapons used by
women in a fight. Nasty weapons, too —
a man waS unconscious for three days in
Sydney Hospital after stopping such a
blow. A couple of Sydney dance halls
post notices that “ladies” mustn’t take off
their shoes. In days of yore, before
women were bobbed and bingled, the hat-
pin was in favor with them as a weapon.
When strife arose at dance halls of the
“gents a bob, ladies free” sort and the
girls decided that the fight had gone far
enough, they would out hatpins and bog
in. Not even the hardiest pushites would
stand against a hatpin charge.
* * * *
“McNoham”: Mere typewriter pound-
ing is apparently out of date for modern
office girls, In intermediate accountancy
examinations recently held girls were
first in Australia in one section and
second and third in others. Boys seem
to be trying to divide their energies
between commercial and Air Training
Corps studies ; others are just marking
time till they are old enough to don a
uniform.
* * * *
“Ear Punisher”: Victorian Parliamen-
tarians have been in the position of the
Parliamentary candidate who was asked
to give a simple “yes” or “no” to a ques-
tion, and was then asked if he had stopped
beating his wife. Hollins, the Indepen-
dent, moved an addendum to the Address
in Reply to the effect that the House
favored a greater application of
Christian principles to all matters of ad-
ministration and legislation. The more
thick-headed members argued it this way:
If they supported the motion they tacitly
agreed that Government and Parliament
had not been applying Christian prin-
ciples in sufficient quantities in the past.
If they rejected the motion they voted
against a greater application of Christian
principles. If Hollins has a sense of
humor he must be very satisfied with the
quandary in which he placed some of his
brethren.
* sK * *
“Chipper”: Only blot on the otherwise
fair escutcheon of army newspapers
is the tendency, so prevalent among
Civvy-street journals, to ape the melo-
dramatic “Time” style in their weekly
news reviews. Our little daily does a
commendable job of giving us all the
news that’s gettable, but if it remains
under the influence I foresee crime re-
ports reading something like this: “Fat,
balding Colonel Krack was in no mood
for shennanikins when podgy, stew-
sodden Pte. Smith fronted him in the
unit reception-house last Monday. Krack,
son of a Methodist and a South Ameri-
can barmaid, knew enough of his onions
not to handle Smith too harshly. Smith
was a good scrounger. Krack knew it.
Cracked Krack: ‘Drunk again, Smith?’
Smith mumbled: T ain’t dun nuthin’,
so what?’ Krack played his only card:
‘Fined five bob!’ Behind the scenes
the R.S.M. grinned sheepishly and led
Smith away. He knew there was trouble
brewing farther afield than the Balkans.”
Round that off with a libellous portrait of
Krack or the R.S.M. and trouble would
be brewed —in large quantities.
% * * *
“Strict Veg”: Alcohol as medicine, is
it? A patient of 86 told a Victorian
country doctor that he was afraid he
wouldn’t have a long life. “Why not?”
asked the doctor. “Your father lived till
he was 107.” “Yes,” said the patient,
“but he was a drinker.” “Well, you’re
pretty good at it yourself,” remarked the
medico. “Oh, yes, doctor, but the old
man was at it all his life,” replied the
octogenarian. “I didn’t start till I was
fifty! ”
& * * *
“Adelaide”: S.A. Courts have decided
at last to call it a day in the matter of
two charges, over 13 years old, of “hav-
ing violently and maliciously threatened.”
The accused said he remembered nothing
of the alleged incident, had been out of
the State since, but had now decided to
come in to “get the matter cleared up.”
However, the police are entirely unable
now to find either of those who had made
the complaint in 1930, so the charges
were “dismissed for want of prosecution.”
3£ * 5{S Hi
“Pipkin”: What the newspapers call a
“critical shortage of books in Australia,”
evidenced mostly in a slackening of the
flood of new publications from Britain
and the U.S.A., appears to me to be not
an unmixed calamity. So much of that
pre-war plethora of “new writing” was
ephemeral—9o p.c. of it dead in a month,
and the time and money spent on it
mostly wasted. Really significant books
are rare ; the best test of their significance
is their survival. War-time book prices
in Australia are very high—even reprint
editions, that used to be published in
London at two bob, are now nearer six
bob —and cautious souls like myself re-
flect that any new book which makes
a real splash will be out in a much
cheaper edition in a few months. In the
meantime there is an opportunity to read
the books one is supposed to have read
but didn’t; to make the discovery that a
chapter of Scott contains more marrow
than a shelf-ful of Edgar Wallace ; that
Thackeray had a saltier wit and knew
his world better than the latter-day
novelists who have to drag in* so many
smellful matters to attract attention ; that
Francis Bacon must have forgotten more
about the art of politics than most
modern practitioners will ever learn, and
that such plain writers as Bunyan and
Defoe could convey half-a-column’s
worth of “special correspondent’s descrip-
tion” in a sentence. Let’s thank what
gods there be for an interregnum that
gives opportunity for reading mixed with
some reflection on what’s read.
* * * *
“Jindivick”: Tell “Clooter” (B.
21/7/ ’43) that in confining my remarks
to frigates. I meant no aspersion on cor-
vettes ; I think they’re worthy descen-
dants of an honorable family. There’s
another reappearance worth mention, too
—the clippers that scoot down the sky-
ways to every corner of the world. But
were these graceful speedy skyriders
named after the swift and stately sailing
ships that raced across the Seven Seas
100 years ago? Or do they owe their
title to Jules Verne, whose Clipper of
the Clouds thrilled “Boy’s Own Paper”
readers more than half a century ago?
His “clipper” was a multi-gyroplane.
* * * *
“Spasebo”: In a lecture at Victorian
Public Library, J, R. Darling, headmaster
of Geelong Grammar School, said that
six books had done more than any
others to influence Western civilisation;
St. Augustine’s De Civitate Dei, Machia-
velli’s 11 Principe, Rousseau’s Social
Contract, Adam Smith’s Wealth of
Nations, Darwin’s Origin of Species and
Marx’s Das Kapital, Anybody is en-
titled to make his own selection, and
mine would be Plato’s Republic, Dante’s
Divine Comedy, Shakspeare’s Hamlet,
Dostoevski’s The Idiot, Dickens’s David
Copperfield and even, perhaps, Shaw’s
Man and Superman. When it comes to
assessing the influence of a book sweep-
ing assertion has wide scope, but it can
be pretty safely said that the reason why
people don’t send boys up chimneys
nowadays to sweep them is because
Dickens wrote about the practice. As
for Das Kapital, we have Marx’s word for
it that he was more influenced by
Shakspeare, Dickens, Heine and other
writers and poets than by all the works
on history and economics.
* * * ♦
“Looby”: The “Squander-bug” de-
velopment in national advertising recalls
incidents in the earlier days of “bacteria”-
itis. Medical pars, in various sections of
the press almost gave each microbe an
individual personality. I remember see-
ing an elderly lady sweeping her house.
Expressing surprise at her method she
would say “Shh!” to me, then edge up
to a skirting-board or corner, make a sud-
den stab with the broom and smile
triumphantly. “It’s them bactery things,”
she explained; “they cause disease, you
know. I’ve been readin’ how they lurk
in all kinds of dust, so I always sneak
up on ’em now!”
“Pakeha”; Te*ll “Pawang” (B. 12/5/’43)
that Melbourne’s infantile deathrate,
35,55, as quoted by him, is far from being
the lowest in the world. That distinction
belongs to Maoriland. The M.L. Official
Year-Book, 1942, gives these details of
the average annual rates in the three
countries at the top of the list for the
latest quinquennial period: M.L., 1936-
40, 32 ; Netherlands, 1934-38, 39 ; Aus-
tralia, 1936-40, 39. The M.L. infant-
mortality rate for the year 1942-43 was
28.7 per 1000 live births —a new low
record.


ABORIGINALITIES
“Arey”: “That magpie,” said Mrs.
Jupp, “is a real nuisance. I wish you’d
take it back into the bush where you got
it. Today I’d pegged the socks on the
line, and when I went out later there
was that cheeky bird walking along the
clothesline, pulling out the pegs and
letting the wet socks drop into the dirt.”
Bill grinned. “He’s a trick, isn’t he?
But young magpies are always mischiev-
ous. He’ll soon grow out of those pranks.
You don’t want to let a little thing like
that worry you. Mum. Look on the
funny side of it.” Mrs. Jupp saw nothing
funny in having to do some of the wash-
ing over again, and said so. But Bill
reckoned he was training the magpie to
talk and it would be a pity to get rid of
it. Next afternoon his wife came up as
Bill was cursefully surveying the ruins of
a bed over which he had stooped for an
hour or so that morning planting out
cabbages. “Isn’t he a trick?” she said.
Bill glared. “That magpie was having a
great game pulling them out,” Mrs, Jupp
went on, “but of course young magpies
are always mischievous. He’ll grow out
of those pranks. Look on the funny
side of it. Bill.” Next day the magpie
was missing.
* * * *
“Pat Ater”: I see where a savant in a
Sydney daily recommends the juice of
the cunjevoi plant (green arum) as the
true antidote for the sting inflicted by
leaves of the Gympie-Gympie bush
(Laportea gigas). It’s certainly not bad,
but every bushman west and north of
Glastonbury (Q.), where the stinging
nettle-tree grows, knows that the best
cure of all is “the hair of the dog that
bit you.” In short, a sappy piece of
wood of Laportea is prised out just under
the bark and rubbed on the affected part,
to give a wonderful and almost imme-
diate relief. It’s been tried too often to
be a myth, and even doctors use it.
* * * ♦
“Mat’s Mate”; When we saw the big
car stuck in the table-drain and the bloke
bursting his boilers trying to get her out
we dropped our swags and lent a hand.
We broke down bushes and packed ’em
under the wheels, dug out great hunks
of blue mud with sticks and our bare
hands, and then Mat put his mighty
strength into a heave at the back while
the driver revved her up and out she went
on to the formation. Without a back-
ward glance that bloke hopped his car
up to about 50 m.p.h. and vanished down
the road. “The crimson so-and-so such-
and-such,” roared Mat. “If I’d known he
was that sort I’d have shoved him in the
flamin’ mud, too.” We scraped the mud
off ourselves, got our breath back and
resumed our knots and our way. That
night we camped under a bridge and went
up to prospect the town. A bloke stopped
us and said “Listen, the sergeant here has
been askin’ if anyone seen a coupla sWag-
gies. Dunno what it’s about, mate, but
thought y’ might like t’ know.” We
were halfway to the bridge when Mat
stopped and said “Look, we ain’t done
anything. If we go boltin’ they’ll come
after us. We’re free men an’ it’s a free
country. We’ll go back an’ ask them
blankets what’s wrong.” I was against
it, but he persuaded me, and back we
went. “So you’re the blokes,” said the
sergeant. “Well, there’s a quid each for
you and your bed and breakfast’s booked
at the Royal. That bloke you got out of
the mud was the magistrate. He didn’t
have time to stop, running late for the
court even then.” In a sort of daze we
collected and headed for that pub.
“Gripes,” breathed Mat as, bathed, fed
and irrigated, we slipped between clean
sheets, “it just shows them flamin’ beaks
is human, after all.”
* * * *
“Y.N.”; The Engineer section of our
district V.D.C. was putting in some prac-
tice with gelignite charges. To accustom
the men to handling the stuff each man
had to prepare and fire about of
the “jelly,” which was placed on the
ground. The explosion left a hole about
6in. deep by a foot in diameter. A
sapper placed his charge in one of these
depressions, and after the explosion a per-
fect dust ring rose some hundreds of feet
into the air and was followed by a high-
pitched wailing noise. It’s had the mob
"How many skeins does it take to make a fence, Monty ?”
puzzled, and we’d like to get at the
reason.
* * * *
“Sailor Bill”: On no fewer than three
occasions I’ve tried to smoke a kangaroo
rat out of a hollow log, even keeping the
foxies away from the other end of the
tunnel to give him a clear run. Clouds
of smoke have poured through the log,
but no kangaroo rat has emerged,
although growling has testified to his
aggravation. These creatures help to
keep me poor, but I’m not lighting any
more hollow logs which they’ve entered,
afterwards finding among the wood ashes
a quantity of charred bone.
* * * *
“Bughouse”; Reference to the resist-
ance of egg-yoke to reabsorption in the
fowl’s interior (B. 23/6/’43) reminds that
painters of the early Italian schools, lack-
ing refined linseed oil, mixed their pig-
ments with egg-yoke. Possibly they didn’t
expect their daubs to last long, but most
of those colors, bodied as they were, are
still bright and persistent after hundreds
of years.
* * * *
“J. Rilston”: From the fact that the
Centre abounds with dry lakes the mud
of which is at times saturated with brine
many times saltier than the sea, and also
that cleared land in many places shows
salt after a few years’ exposure, one
would be apt to judge Australia as a salt-
impregnated continent. Even the mines
of Coolgardie and thereabouts carry
subterranean water which is a saturated
solution of brine. Yet no deposit of
rock salt has been found anywhere,
though such are fairly common on the
other continents. Actually Australia,
were it normally watered, would be the
reverse of salt, since all it has even now
comes or came from the sea. The highly
evaporative air spray around the sea’s
edge is constantly caught up, the mi-
nutely fine salt being left floating as dust.
Blown inland, this slowly settles, is dis-
solved by the rain and carried into rivers
and lakes. Then as the latter in turn
evaporate the salt is left. All the salt lakes
of the Centre would become beautifully
fresh were they full.
w *• X
na. Sa . ? tmg Wa l- the f7 Cr '
age white Australian wraps himself m
vest, pullover, coat and more coats when-
ever a little zephyr blows, my mind goes
back to the abo camp on the edge of the
great Victoria Desert. Spmifex tussocks
built into a half-circle wall about two
feet high made a breakwind. Within this
horseshoe were half-a-dozen shallow
hollows, just scraped in the sand. Between
each of these nests were the ashes of a
small fire. So they lay, two, even four,
humans huddled close, with only a
string around the hair and another round
the waist. No covering, for the land was
too barren of life to provide a kangaroo
skin. It was the woman’s job to keep the
fire going. Before retiring she laid in an
ample supply of fuel. As the night wore
on she awoke periodically to add a few
sticks to the flame. One could hardly
say she slept, so often did her hand
reach out. But she had her compensation
in chat she lay nearest to the warmth,
small though it was. The sand underneath
was warm, with heat absorbed through
the blazing hot day; this in country
in which by dawn our blankets would be
silvered with hoar frost and the water
frozen in the bags.
“23-4”; Though I’m far from ready
to shove my mitt into a bull-ants’ nest
to prove it, I believe there’s something
in that theory (B. 28/7/’43) that holding
the breath closes the pores of the skin,
and thus stops an insect from driving
its dagger home. I’ve proved it re-
peatedly with mosquitoes, either by draw-
ing in and holding the breath when the
mossy arrives and then watching the
thing buckle its prodder and let out a
stream of bad language as it tried some-
where else or by letting it insert its pump,
then holding my breath and locking it
while I slowly and nonchalantly smacked
it down. Out our way now you can see
the mossies bypassing my bunk in thou-
sands as they make for less-sophisticated
victims.
* * * *
“8.J.K.”; I can vouch for the dictum
that the bull petted as a calf turns out
vicious. I was bringing in a bull that
the kids had raised as a poddy. He had
been quiet and tractable enough to
handle. Yet as I was putting him through
a gate he turned and charged the horse I
was riding. In two swift sorties he
ripped the horse in the stomach and flank
and almost wrecked a good saddle. That
bull is on his way north in tins, and no
regrets from his former owner.
* * * *
“B. A. Ker”: I heartily endorse “Bad
Victorian’s” praise of stringybark (B.
14/7/’43), but his claims were too
modest. From the long slab that forms
the abo.’s canoe to the teased-out wisps
that coax a storm-douched fire back to
life stringybark has a hundred uses.
Although the wood itself is not highly
regarded by cooks, an old brickmaker
of my youth preferred it as fuel for burn-
ing hand-made bricks; and charcoal-
burners selected “stringy” for forge coal.
As a building timber it is ranked only
“rough hardwood,” but many a piece of
stringybark has been worked into cheap
furniture as Tasmanian oak. No timber
in the bush splits so straight or so easily,
which explains why old-time slabs,
shingles and palings were invariably cut
from it. Incidentally, one of Lawson’s
first poems was written in praise of
stringybark. Whether it was ever printed
1 have never been able to ascertain—-it is
not in any of the three books in my pos-
session-but the original MS., written in
pencil on a school exercise book, was to
b e seen in the Mitchell Library (Sydney)
some 10 years ago
• * * «
“C.E.”: There’s a ewe in the mob
stone blind from pink-eye, and during
the past 12 months the least disturbance
would send her charging madly in any
direction to bang against fences or fall
headlong over logs. Now she has a
lamb to look after, it is interesting to
note her altered tactics. Instead of blind
panic she uses her other faculties. With
head thrown high she walks right and
left listening intently for unusual sounds,
and when the lamb gets lost begins a
systematic search in circles, sniffing every-
thing within range. So good has she be-
come at the game that only as a last
resort does she bleat.
. * . * * *
“Sailor Bill”; “Gwan’s” jackass (B.
14/7/’43) is different from the squibs
tba t bved °n my N.Q. farm. There were
dozens of them in sight every time I
ploughed, and nightly they collected on
a tall bloodwood near the stable and
roared in chorus as the
afterglow faded. Then
came half a dozen butcher-
birds, which belted the
jackasses day and night,
chased them away from
the cultivation paddocks,
broke up their concerts
and kept them constantly
on the defensive. Observ-
ing that the “jacks” in-
variably shirked combat
and were routed every-
where, hitherto neutral
peewits, magpies and other
birds joined in the on-
slaught. As a result jack-
asses, except for an occa-
sional nomad, have been
as scarce as whiskers on a
grape these last two years.
* * *
“Wingella”: A newly-
enlisted policeman, he had
been sent out on patrol
with orders to arrest
a troublesome aboriginal.
The abo,, resenting arrest
by a newcomer, showed
fight, coming at the young
trooper with a tomahawk
in his hand and murder in
his heart. The policeman,
forgetting the revolver on
his hip, grabbed a hefty
nulla-nulla and jabbed the
abo, in the bingey. The
boong gave a “Whoof!”
and curled up on the
ground, all the fight
knocked out of him. But the black-
trackers who accompanied the young
policeman were horrified at his de-
parture from custom. “That no way
catchum myall,” they complained ; “what
for you no more hittum longa head, all
same ’nother p’liceman? No good hit-
tum longa bingey; that way no more
proper-pfeller.” Even after the policeman
had returned to headquarters with his
prisoner the trackers still talked of the
breach of rules of polite warfare, and as
long as that policeman remains in the
service he will be known throughout the
North as “Nulla-nulla Tommy.”
* * * *
“Propalong”; We were shivering in
the grey dawn at the yards, huddled
round the fire beneath the tar drum, when
the boss arrived in the buckboard with
the lamb-marking gear and a brand-new
jackeroo. The mob forgot the chills in
their aching bones at the prospect of a
litle diversion: there was only a small
percentage of lanlbs, but nearly every ewe
in the yard was flyblown, a lot of ’em
badly. We got going, and all through the
long, stinking morning we waited in vain
for Percy to be sick, but, though the piles
of green wool mounted steadily, he car-
ried on valiantly. After lunch, however,
things looked more promising. First
Percy began to take an interest in the
time and to put on a bit of extra speed
as he ladled out dip to the patients, then
he started to ask how many more there
were to do. Every time he asked his eyes
wandered round the reeking yard, and
we forgot our aching backs in the joy of
anticipation. As we struggled through
the last penful, about four in the after-
noon, all eyes were on Percy; and as the
last ewe stamped off, head down, we
weren’t a bit surprised to see the jacky
put on his coat in a hurry. But we were
surprised when he began fossicking in
a heap of stinking wool. “What’s up,
Choom?” Jack inquired. “Oh, I’m just
going down to the pond to do a little
fishing,” and off he went
THE BLAZED TRACK.
Crumbled to dust beneath this stone
Greened by the moss of Time,
One lies hidden who ventured lone
Here in his manhood’s prime.
Hope in his heart, by dreams beguiled,
Naught in the future fearing,
Hither he came to tame the wild
In the days of pioneering.
Yon is a little house he raised,
Skilled in his work and planning,
And yonder the winding track he blazed,
Rough miles through the mountains
spanning.
Battling to clear and till the land.
Here he toiled to the end.
Willing of heart and strong of hand,
Fronting what Fate might send.
Frost did he know what time winds blew
From chilly heights down-sweeping.
And fires that marched red-bannered
through
Crops ready for the reaping.
Yet, like all old-time pioneers,
Failure he heeded not,
Facing calm-eyed through years and years
Toil as his destined lot.
Still there were times when seasons filled
With ills no more waylaid him
And when the soil that he had tilled
With grateful gifts repaid him.
Just as he fought ’neath sun and star,
Warring with flame and flood,
Sons of his sons war now afar.
Proving their warrior blood.
Yon stands the house he raised, and yon
Across green hill and hollow
The track he blazed still journeys on
For folk like him to follow.
N.S.W.
RODERIC QUINN.


“Queer the effect a Waaaf has on some fellows!"
“Jemalong Jim”: “We’re a bit dis-
appointed,” complained the two city holi-
day makers camped on the Lachlan with
Rock-cake Peters as cook. “We thought
you would serve us up some real old-
time bush cooking, not these dainties
you’ve been giving us.” Rock-cake, a
sensitive soul and an artist who could
turn things out of a camp-oven that
would make your mouth water, went into
the town and moodily got on a bender.
He stayed there all night, brooding over
the affront to bis skill, then, with a gleam
in his eye, headed back to that camp.
The campers were hailed in the sunrise
with Rock-cake’s joyful admonition to
“Tumble up an’ have a real bush break-
fast.” They came out and were each
handed a strange-looking article and a
pint of strong, black tea. “Tear that
into y’,” sang Rock-cake, “an’ y’ can
go home an’ tell y’r mates what the bush
is like.” “What is it?” they asked. “It’s
a real Condobolin sandwich,” said Rock-
cake, “the sort of stuff Ben Hall and his
gang thrived on.” They eyed the stuff
and asked “Yes, but what’s in it?” Then
Rock-cake rose up and cried “A hunk
of fried goanna between two pieces of
peeled box-bark. Tear it into y’, boys,
an’ sleep on bags.” But the boys had
turned a faint green in color and hurled
that Condo, sandwich far into the river
* * * *
“Eureka”; One of the most talented
a bos. I met was Biggenhook, a son of
Bony Jack, onetime king of the Monaro
(N.S.W.) tribe. Although deaf and dumb
from birth, he became a first-class stock-
man, drover and shearer. He could
always make himself understood by
sign language, making sketches in the
dirt. He would indicate cattle by draw-
ing their brands, and caricature humans
to a passable likeness by a quick sketch
with a stick in the dust. He died at
Cooma at the age of 62, the last of the
full-blooded blacks on the Monaro.
* * * V
“Bo”: A small, thin man, he dumped
his swag by the men’s hut, skipped across
lo the boss and, speaking at 200 w.p.m.,
asked for a job, going on to outline the
things he could do and to expand on his
speed at doing them. At about 1700
words he took a deep breath, and then
the boss got in hurriedly with an
acquiescence and said he could do a bit
of wood-and-water joeying. Before the
boss had finished speaking there was a
swirl of dust, and the boss stood open-
mouthed as the new employee tore across
the yard, taking his coat off as he ran
to put his knot inside. Within a minute
he was back, sleeves rolled up and asking
where the woodheap was. Before the
boss could get his arm down after point-
ing the new joey was halfway
to the heap. Half an hour later the boss,
passing by the heap, stopped in amaze-
ment at t b e amount cut. The small man
was socking in like mad, nor did he
pause a second when the boss commended
him on his effort. As he still slogged
a way, puffing slightly, the boss said “We
don-i want you to keep that pace up, you
know. You’ll be cracking up! The
httle man looked up, slung down the
««. »MolW W» deew» quickly, then
barked out. So you rc one o these
blasted go-slow bosses that won’t let a
man do what he likes, are y’? It’s cows
...
hke >° ll . that ™ uck the game up. Give
us me time—/ know where I am t wel-
come! ” Five minutes later he was crack-
j n g six miles an hour up the road.
° c
* * * *
“Ouien Sabe”: Have noticed that where
internal combustion has set a haystack
smouldering and the stack is disturbed
during efforts to save it, the inrush of
air will always cause it to burst into
g ame Internal combustion, of course,
can occur only where the hay becomes
damp> mostly through faulty roofing or
thatching, and is too closely packed to
a]]ow air to circu i at e. Then the bacteria
- n straw absorb what little air there
and the tempe rature is thereby raised,
wogs multiply the heat becomes
g rea j- er U ntil the straw starts to smoulder,
„. * * *
.. Xerrinjar . will H enry G. Lamond
14/7/ J 43) please say w h ere and when
q{ up to 47,000,
| many paddocks were mustered, how
mustering took, where the sheep
g th^y did wilh them
coim ting was over? Shades of
Isis Downs and Wellshot (Q.). with their
9Q men m board amJ a o£ 250 000
( t 0 shear! It took them all their
/ mnnn a rtiv^n
tl . me 0 g ’ f lamb* markine
ei B ht men as a team tor l a mb-mark:ing
good day’s work to put through
sh | ad y and it ta £ es the best
, f „ fnr „ r three nf
t^dto lst« 47,000
” H 8 G to tally would need all the
A W C ,7 men and y their machines to
„ ra7 ; n „ that number As
cove r tne area grazing mai nuinoex.
If 000 a " I s e n^fi y , 030 o 30 c 0a ffestS
g^/eep^S/cS?
Finally, it would be interesting to know
how far the 47,000 had to travel to water
after Henry had counted ’em, and if they
all reached their paddocks that day or
that month.
* * * ~ * , ,
Old-timer : Curyo Charlie sounded
out the local John as soon as he arrived,
and was promptly warned against the
operation of any illegal machines *or the
separation of the citizens from their cash,
To Charlie’s plea that said citizens must
want the kind of excitement he could
provide, otherwise they wouldn’t come
at it, the Law turned a deaf ear, warn-
ing Charlie again of what would happen
if he tried anything. Next day, when the
crowd had gathered for the races, Charlie
discovered that that John was the only
one present, so he hired a cockatoo. “1
don’t want y’ t’ hang round me wheel,”
said Charles, “but keep about a chain
behind that bobby an’ between me an’
him. When he moves my way wave yT
arms. You’re a little bloke, but if y’
jump up an’ down an’ wave ’em I’ll spot
y’ in time. Got it?” The cockatoo said
he had it, moved off and took up station,
and Curyo uncovered his wheel and
called the customers to business. He
had the cloth nicely filled with currency
and the wheel spinning when he spotted
the cockatoo jumping up and down and
waving his arms urgently. He closed the
game. Looking again he saw the
cockatoo still jumping and waving, so he
shoved the outfit under his arm and
ducked through the crowd and away. He
stayed off in the scrub for about an hour
and then drifted back to the course,
“Where you bin?” demanded the cocka-
too. “That John left the course a half-
hour ago t’ go an’ collect a couple of
fightin’ drunks up the town.” “Then
what,” howled Curyo, “was y’ jumpin’
about for?” “By cripes,” came the
answer, “you’d ruddy-well jump if y’
found y’d bin standin’ on a meat-ants’
nest f’r ten minutes.”
* * * *
“Preal Preal”: In giving you the
answer he thinks you want to a question
(B. 28/7/’43) the abo. is like any other
child, mentally. Few white children will
answer a question truthfully if they think
the answer is likely to displease the ques-
tioner ; they’d rather not answer at all.
Which is why the small boy, challenged
by parent or teacher for some obvious
and punishable act, gulps, stammers and
then resolutely closes his lips and remains
mute. Put a question in such a way that
the child isn’t sure which way you want
it answered and then watch its efforts to
deduce, from your expression and from
your answers to leading questions, just
what will please you.
* * * *
“N.”: T’other day I found the tenth
dead magpie for the week lying in the
cow paddock. This unusual mortality
among the black-and-white bullies had
me puzzled—there must be plenty of
tucker: the little enclosure is literally
carpeted with dandelions —so next morn-
ing I got up in time to observe the be-
havior of the early birds. Sitting behind
the boxthorn hedge I hadn’t waited long
before a maggie planed down from a
near-by bluegum. He strutted across the
wet greenstuff, head darting suspiciously
from side to side; then suddenly he
pounced on an early worm. Maggie
pulled, and so did the worm. Maggie
sat back on his hocks, but still the worm
held on. There was a short tussle and
then, quite clearly, I saw the worm break
in two. But I was surprised to see the
piece that Maggie held fly back with a
slam. The magpie gave one feeble croak
and turned up his claws: when I exam-
ined him I found his skull was well and
truly fractured. You see, those dande-
lions must be chock-full of latex and the
worms have somehow acquired a surpris-
ing elasticity. My nipper has already got
over the rubber shortage by using two
worms as springs on his shanghai.
* * * *
“Pine Creek”: An ancient wallaroo,
sable and scarred, ears bitten short by
the houris of his harem, hopped and
shuffled his way down the mountain
scarp to slake his thirst at the rocky hole
near our camp. With bingy filled he
lounged and sniffed us. Just then our ’roo
tracker, a mong half kelpie and “bull,]’
noticed him and ambled over to investi-
gate, ominous throat rumblings warning
the ’roo to hop it. But that warrior,
thigh muscles bulging and sinewy arms
poised, grunted a challenge as his eyes
glazed to this strange warrigal. As Bully
drove in the wallaroo picked him up
and with powerful forearms crushed him
against an iron chest, teeth chiselling
pieces out of the dog’s hide and murder-
ous claws ripping deep gashes. Mean-
while the hound’s hind legs ripped away
as he savagely chewed towards the throat.
In horror the ’roo flung him off, and the
bleeding pair fell gasping. Recovering
first, in went that mong again, to be
fought as before ; but the bout terminated
when Bully got his throat hold. For two
days the hero lay beside the tent after
we stitched the holes and leaks in his
hide. On recovery he tracked the arterial
blood gouts with a new light in his eyes.
« s); « *
“Herbert Dawson”; “Beefo” (B.
14/7/’43) appears to have got his
knowledge of cattle, as well as his pen-
name, from a tin. I was born on a
cattle station in Queensland and am at
present living on one. The only straight-
out cattle property that I know of in
this Upper Dawson country that works
cattle without dogs spends a lot
of time during mustering running down
calves —the most dangerous thing a horse-
man can attempt (a beaten calf will in-
variably dive under the horse’s neck or
belly); whereas a blue cattle-dog, which
does not bark when working—unless he
is the occasional “yapper” that turns up
now and then in the best breed and is
promptly got rid of —has only to chase a
calf for a hundred yards and it will turn
back bawling to the protection of its
mother. Dogs save galloping, and touchy
cows, trotting or galloping off with their
calves, will bail up immediately they see
a dog overtaking them. Stockmen who
know their work leave the “mickey” that
spears out at the stockyard wings to the
dogs. They will bring him back quicker
than horsemen can. A few weeks ago
I was one of three who did a spot of
scrubber-running on a neighbor’s place.
One of the party brought two blue cattle-
dogs. An old scrub-bullock that had
escaped time and again from “bull-
tossers” broke twice from the “coachers"
He was left entirely to the dogs each
time. I don’t know where his hide is
now —in some Brisbane lanyard possibly
—but I know the stockyards where his
bones and horns are lying. One of these
two dogs could not be purchased for a
hundred pounds. No, he does not be-
long to me. Finally, “Beefo,” where did
you get the idea of stockmen in cattle
country looking for work with any kind
of a dog in tow? From a picture on a
tin? The stations breed the dogs around
here.
* * * *
“D.R.H.”: Larry, exiled on foot in the
cocky country, was looking for a job.
One day in the S.A. Mallee he came
across two farms within a quarter of a
mile of each other and, calling at the
first, tried his luck. The cocky had no-
thing for him, and Larry asked about
the second place. “Y’ won’t do no good
there,” Tiewire told him. “I s’pose he
could do with a hand, but he’s a real
battler an’ that flamin’ independent!
Dunno what he thinks o’ this country;
never did no farmin’ till he come here
four year ago. Useter be manager o’ one
o’ them big sheep stations up north.
Place about 1200 square mile, he
reckons.” Larry thanked him, shouldered
his swag and marched across to the
neighboring farm. At the gate he dropped
his knot, tucked his shirt in tidily and
began to roll a smoke. Presently he saw'
a middle-aged man leave one of the
sheds, walking head down, looking at his
boots, and make for the house. Larry
ducked up the path, got to the back door
and to the woman who opened it said in
a carrying voice: “The boss about?’
Yes, he got a job.
“I was 'ere first!"
MELON-AND-LEMON.
You call this stuff melon-and-lemon, this watery
tack in a tin!
Why, Mum would have used it for pig-feed if
she’d turned out jam half as thin.
Some things can be made in a workshop—yes,
even some jams—of a sort,
But melon-and-lemon, young woman, is not
manufactured or bought.
It’s made in a little bush kitchen, by light of
a swinging lamp’s glow.
And it’s made by a smiling-faced woman with
five sturdy kids in a row.
There’ll be newspapers spread on the table,
a knife in each cunning right hand;
And the spirit of fun in those youngsters is
something you won’t understand:
The revelry cutting the melon and squeezing the
pips till they fly;
The cheer that goes up to the ceiling when
someone gets home on the sly;
The cutting to cubes and the weighing—with
cubes as the reckoning sheet;
And the red-blooded war with the peelings
as soon as the job is complete!
You wouldn’t know aught of the fragrance that
wafts from the pot on the hob;
And jarring the succulent mixture you’d think
just a tedious job.
There’s something in melon-and-lemon not
made with your cog-wheel and vat,
It’s spirit of home-life, young woman, and
no one can mass-produce that!
N.s.w.
B. A. KER.


df
df
d
but civilian requirements of Aus-
tralian-made Radiotrons have not been
neglected. Most widely used types are
available, but if the particular valve you
want is not obtainable, consult your Radio-
tron dealer regarding an alternative type.
BADIOTBON
THE WORLD'S STANDARD RADIO VALVE
AMALGAMATED WIRELESS VAfVE CO. PTY. LTD.
Australian, Mercantile, Land & Finance
Company, Limited
(INCORPORATED IN ENGLAND IN 1863)
WOOL, FAT STOCK, STORE AND STUD STOCK,
PRODUCE AND PROPERTY SALESMEN
General Manager for Australia: R. SINCLAIR SMITH.
ADVANCES MADE ON GRAZING PROPERTIES, ON STOCK, AND ON
CONSIGNMENTS OF WOOL, SKINS, HIDES, TALLOW. ETC.
LICENSED AUCTIONEERS, STOCK AND STATION AGENTS.
SYDNEY OFFICE; A. M. MURDOCH, Manager.
ALSO AT MELBOURNE, BRISBANE, NEWCASTLE. WAGGA, HENTY, HAY, MOREE,
TOWNSVILLE, CHARLEVILLE. BUENOS AIRES, LONDON.
GENERAL AGENTS IN NEW SOUTH WALES FOR NORTHERN ASSURANCE CO. LTD
CVanogaS
destroys them quickly and easily.
“IT’S the GAS that KILLS them.”
KILLS WITH A WHIFF
CERTAIN DEATH
TO RABBITS
Pump it in with a “Buzacott” Foot Pump Blower—a machine which
makes rabbit destruction a simple, sure and inexpensive operation.
SAVES MANPOWER
I
Obtainable from
all Storekeepers
throughout Australia.
BUZACOTT-WOLSELEY PTY.,LTD.,
7-11 MARKET STREET, SYDNEY.
THE MAN ON
THE LAND
"DON'T WORRY. I'M SENDING IT TO
GRAZCOS."
Buffalo-fly.
“Gip”; It is firmly established on the
Atherton Tableland principal dairying
district in North Queensland —a place of
heavy rainfall, planted grasses and scrub
soil, 350 miles east of the Gulf cattle
country, where the fly has been prevalent
for years, and only 30-odd miles from
the coastal fattening country between
Cairns and Townsville.
Besides Kajabbi—away out north-west
of Cloncurry—a spraying plant was
erected at great expense at Mungana, 150
miles by rail inland from Cairns, where
all Peninsula and a lot of Gulf cattle
must be trucked. Spraying is not very
effective and does not kill the fly. It
merely drives it from an infected mob of
cattle to a clean mob in the vicinity, and
so the scourge is spread.
Buffalo flies attack horses as well as
cattle, but not with quite such disastrous
results. Young, strong horses recover,
but older horses stay poor and are use-
less for work. The fly eats a hole under
the nag’s neck, and the place is kept raw
when the horse rubs it on a fence be-
cause of the irritation. I found stock tar
helpful if applied regularly.
It’s all very fine for Government chaps
to visit N.Q. now to study the
buffalo-fly, because winter frosts have
killed a lot off. They should have been
here (Mareeba) in the wet season ; the
place was black with ’em.
Liver Fluke.
“Jumbuck”; If the “no-snails-no-
fluke” doctrine were acted on thoroughly
losses on even “fluky” country could
be greatly reduced. Adult flukes lay
their eggs in the ducts of the liver, and
the eggs are eventually deposited on the
pastures, where they hatch out in from
two to three weeks. After being hatched
the young flukes die very quickly unless
they contact one of several types of small
fresh-water snails. On entering the snails
they develop and multiply until, having
reached their alloted span within the
snails, they take to the pastures or to
water. The flukes are swallowed by the
sheep, bore their way into the bile ducts,
thrive there until maturity, and egg-laying
begins the cycle again.
Sheep infected with fluke Jose condi-
tion, walk stiffly, and often develop
swellings about chest and under jaws.
Bad cases may die within eight to ten
weeks. Post-mortem examination shows
the bile ducts swollen and infested with
fluke. Best drench is carbon tetra-
chloride, either in liquid or capsule form.
Liquid dose for a grown sheep is
5 c.c. of a mixture made of one part
of carb. tet, and four parts of paraffin.
It can be bought made up, and a gallon
will drench 700 to 800 sheep. The cap-
sule method is quicker, but care must be
taken to see that the sheep swallow the
capsules and do not chew them. A balling
gun is useful for administering them. Two
drenches, with six to eight weeks be-
tween, will prove effective.
To destroy fresh-water snails small
bags of bluestone should be placed in all
waters where sheep drink, and a mixture
of one part powdered bluestone to five
parts fine sand should be broadcast over
all pastures addicted to holding surface
waters. The mixture should also be
placed about the edges of all dams,
lagoons and creeks.
The Breeding Sow.
“Sarina”: Most farrowing sows are
given plenty to eat, but unless the tucker
is rich in protein the young pigs may be
weak and unthrifty and develop rickets.
“Hey, hands off that lorry—We insist on honest weight here.’
The sow should be allowed plenty of
freedom in a lucerne or Kikuyu-grass
paddock, and meatmeal or linseed meal
should figure prominently in her diet.
Skim-milk is good.
The sow should be in good condition,
neither fat nor thin. If fat, she’ll have
trouble during delivery and milk fever
may follow. If thin, she won’t be able
to suckle her young properly. Likewise,
they’ll be undernourished while she’s
carrying them.
Three weeks or a month before farrow-
ing she should be given her own pen
to prevent injury that might result in
miscarriage. Provide a clean, warm
shelter with not too much hay or straw
on the floor. Piglets are likely to wriggle
under loose litter and be crushes or
smothered. A few days before farrow-
ing the sow’s rations should be reduced,
but at all times she should be given plenty
of clean drinking water. It is very im-
portant that she be undisturbed during
farrowing, as most untimely births and
abortions are due to mental derangement.
After farrowing the sow usually suffers
from debility. For the next two weeks
she should be fed light, easily digested
food in small amounts many times a
day. Incidentally, immediately after
birth the piglets should be put in a warm
place for a little while before being placed
on the teats. Increase the sow’s feed by
degrees after two weeks. Mother and
offspring should be protected from
draughts. The piglets will be helped by
two teaspoonfuls of cod liver oil each
daily.
Wean at two months old, and move
them to another enclosure at feeding-
time to get them used to the new foods.
Don’t be in a tearing hurry to pen them
with older pigs. Big pigs drive small
pigs away from the feeding trough. Exer-
cise in grazing paddocks is good for
young pigs, but grass alone won’t make
’em grow rapidly.
Cultivating Potatoes.
“B.”: Cultivate the potato land before
and after planting. Skim-plough or
hustle during summer months; deep-
plough in July and let it lie for the rest
of the winter. Then hustle again, grub
harrow, roll if necessary and give a
second ploughing. Work the soil right
to the bottom of the furrow and break
the big clods.
Land worked too fine sets too hard.
It takes three weeks to a month for the
potatoes to get through the ground.
Inter-row cultivation done in that time
ensures the crop against failure and frees
the soil for the root’s development. Do
the job with tractors with inter-row
attachments or horse-hoe to a good depth
close to the rows. Leave for 10 days
and harrow the ridges down. This gives
an extra cultivation and kills the weeds.
Once the crop’s through, cultivate again.
If weeds are troublesome, harrow when
the plants are two to three inches high.
As the plot grows, build up a slight
mould at each operation until a half
mould’s formed. Then if wet weather
sets in or the crop grows quickly there’s
less damage done in completing the
mould and less loss in greening. Give
the mould a fairly wide base and let the
side tops come to a point so that the
tubers are well covered.
Bum ’Em Out.
“Jindivick”: When clearing don’t spend
hours grubbing stumps if you have plenty
of logs. Use the logs and surface rub-
bish and put fires into the stumps and
char them out. Place the fire well down
under the main root, and cover carefully
with sods and earth until all air is
excluded.
Go round the chars at night. The red
glow where the fires are burning their
way to the surface will be more easily
visible. A well-attended char will remove
a big stump entirely, roots and all, but
walk carefully when tending the fires or
you may break through the surface into
a red-hot pit where a root is burning
away.
Where stumps call for quicker methods
than charring, blasting saves much sweat
and time. From one to two sticks of
gelignite in a stump up to four feet in
diameter, rammed well into the middle
through a couple of auger holes, will
shake the stump so that a few minutes’
work with a mattock will remove it
entirely. Heavier charges will blow the
stump right out, but then you have to
replace a cartload of earth afterward.
Hints for the Farm.
“Steve”: A neighbor took delivery at
the railway of a truck of ewes in lamb.
About 20 had to be carried out of the
truck. They lay for hours in a state of
collapse. A stockman advised giving
them three aspirins each. These were
obtained, and within half an hour of
dosage the sheep were all on the move.
I have had similar success with sheep
staggery or down towards lambing time.
I admit also I’ve had more cases un-
responsive to the treatment. Give the
dose in water as a drench.
“Esk D.”: Try Bokhara clover to en-
rich poor land. Sow in autumn in
warmer districts or spring where late
rains may be expected. Work the ground
to a fine tilth and sow 101 b. per acre.
Keep stock off while it is getting estab-
lished ; afterwards it may be grazed or
cut for hay. In the second year, when
stems and roots make into woody
growth, plough it in and let it rot. A
good permanent pasture can then be
established.
“Sarina”: Molasses is a destroyer of
poisonous acids that exist in young green
herbage (B. 3/6 /-’43). Many green plants
that stock go for contain hydrocyanic
or prussic acid in varying amounts.
Usually, stock don’t get enough poison
from eating wild passion vines and other
weeds to harm them. On no account
give stock large quantities of young cow-
pea vines without molasses.
“M.”: Paspalum dilatatum and water
couch (Paspalum distichum ) are subject
to ergot infection, and are always a
danger to stock if allowed to seed. Ergot
is a poison after the passing of the
“honey dew” stage, but trouble can be
prevented if pasture is kept eaten down
or mown and not allowed to seed. Re-
placement of both species with better
pasture mixtures, or on low river flats
with Kikiyu, is advisable.
“Goulburn”: Average yield per sheep
in N.S.W. for 1941-42 was 8.201 b.
At Cootamundra shearing competition
wethers averaged 181 b. 7oz. for 12
months’ growth. Lowest average cut in
the competition was 151 b., almost double
the State average. It shows how good
rams put the wool on the progeny and
what using poor rams costs the State in
wool.
“Bundalinga”: First drug farm in
Queensland is being launched at Cleve-
land, where sub-tropical plants from
which important medicinal drugs will be
produced are to be grown.


m
m
j
L
irf
Vi
I
yy>Z:£
,
mmmmm
*ii
■■ ■ , rf#f -« that *»y- in^ e VOS : A ■ J
(*isf,(^bj e •'PPeared f Q fa „ *‘ !S "a‘ a a
~ ■ ■■-'-■ a, ‘r.- •!>«*,«. ;•
11
I.
I
I
Yes, the man who now declares his pride in
Australia’s War effort and in the deeds of her
valorous sons—who proclaims his determina-
tion to purge the Pacific of the menace of Japan
—was, until taking office as Prime Minister, an
avowed pacifist, isolationist and an opponent of
every move to strengthen Australia’s defences.
On the other hand, the United Australia Party,
and the United Country Party, have always
advocated a progressive and adequate defence
programme. The Menzies Government, in spite
of opposition, sent the A.I.F. to Britain’s aid,
and thus assured Australia’s safety at a time of
crisis.
REMEMBER—your vote is your safeguard—
Use it effectively on Polling Day
Send fbis adverficemenf fo your Soldier Son!
For the Senate, vote E ARKINS, 0 DEIN, 0 NOCK — every 0i1,,;-
Authorised by H. W. Horsfield, 30 Ash Street, Sydney
U.A.P.5.43.30
HITS
LYS
m
-
PROOF
100 % Australian-made
from Australian Material
Wire Netting
Wire Nails
Our Netting and Other Products are
known throughout the Commonwealth
as of the highest standard.
LOOK for Our MARKER in
every Roll of Netting .
LYSAGHT’S
Fencing Wire
WZX&aJ ;
mm
m* 1
wsm
n
m
W : i
f A '"‘ ' ’ > -- '»J
•% ,. ' • >
ESTABLISHED 1884
Barbed Wire
Zinc Oxide
QUALITY GUARANTEED.
Obtainable from all the Leading
Merchants, Storekeepers and Agents.
Lysaght Bros. & Co. Pty, Ltd.
Head Office: 17-19 Bridge Street. Sydney.
SPECIFY "LYSAGHT'S" WIRE, WIRE NETTING. ETC.
UNCABLED ADDITIONS
The Japs in China.
(From N.Y. “Times.”)
It is a harrowing tale that has been
brought back by Father George Yager,
American missionary in the part of
Kiangsi Province in China in which
General Doolittle’s fliers landed after the
bombing of Tokyo. The Japanese swept
in after the fliers had left and in revenge
on the Chinese inhabitants of the district
systematically and deliberately slaugh-
tered, tortured, pillaged, destroyed. As
Father Yager said, everything was prac-
tised except cannibalism. It is a harrow-
ing tale, but it has become normal in
China.
Czechoslovakia has had a Lidice;
China has had many of them. Since
China was invaded in the summer of
1937 Japan has been guilty of barbarities
of a kind that has not been exceeded since
the scourge of the Mongols fell on Asia
and Eastern Europe. What is worse, and
perhaps most significant, they have been
barbarities, as it were, by programme.
Those who know Japan, who thought of
the Japanese as a people different but with
an inheritance of culture, at first attri-
buted their excesses to the passions re-
leased in the aftermath of fighting—the
bursting through of repressions to which
all men are liable under war’s strain.
Horrible as the excesses were, they might
be condoned, not excused, at least on the
argument that there is no people that has
not been guilty at one time or another.
But now we know that that explanation
does not hold. Excesses are the norm.
They are repeated. They are carried
out on a system. They are planned and
executed deliberately, coldly and to a
purpose, and they put on Japan a brand
that will not be out of men’s sight and
memory anywhere for decades.
How Prisoners Are Treated.
(Condensed from “United States News.”)
The handling of war prisoners is pre-
scribed in complete detail by the Geneva
Convention. The Convention was signed
by the representatives of 47 nations. All
but 11 of those that signed had ratified
the agreement before the present war
started.
Among the principal belligerents, Japan
was the only one that signed but did not
ratify the agreement. Russia neither
signed nor ratified it.
So far as American and British pris-
oners of war in Germany are concerned,
there are evidences that the Nazis have
at least kept within fairly close con-
formity with the treaty provisions.
War prisoners, other than officers, will
be given work both inside and outside
prison camps. Officers will be given jobs
only when they ask for them.
Prisoners may be used for any type
of work not directly connected with mili-
tary operations. Already, they have been
used in work on levees, and elsewhere.
In England, many Italian prisoners have
been used for farm work. They seemed
to like it. Some of them wanted to
invest their savings in British war bonds,
even though told that the money might
buy weapons for use against their own
countrymen.
Prisoners may work for any depart-
ment of the Government, other than the
War Department, for States, counties,
cities, or even private individuals. Em-
ployers must furnish the equipment,
tools and materials for the work.
But the prisoners must not be assigned
to unhealthy or dangerous work, may be
used only on jobs where they can be
supervised directly, and are not to work
longer hours than civilians on similar
jobs in the same vicinity. Except in emer-
gencies, the working day may not be
longer than 10 hours. Noncommissioned
officers will do only supervisory work.
The Battleship Fights Back.
(Condensed from an article in “Saturday
Evening Post” by Capt. Thomas L. Gatch,
U.S.N.)
The action off the Santa Cruz Islands
on October 26, 1942, destroyed the air
power of three Nipponese carriers, poised
against the Solomons, being one of the
naval strokes which preserved Guadal-
canal to us.
The Santa Cruz action had a larger
significance: the handiness with which
Battleship X, one of our new 35,000-ton
dreadnoughts, fought off the persistent
malice of Jap dive-bombers and torpedo
planes protecting herself and the carrier
in her charge, shooting at least 32 ’planes
into the sea with only incidental damage
to herself. I had the honor of command-
ing Battleship X.
The use of a battleship to shepherd a
carrier represented a departure from prior
conceptions. Originally it had been as-
sumed that the carrier should guard the
ship of the line. The reversal of roles
grew out of two factors. First, the vul-
nerabihty of the carrier to overhead
attack. Secondly, the 1942-type battle-
ship had been fitted with the maximum
of defensive power against aircraft,
As we steamed along at battle stations,
j wondered how much the agitation
against the battleship might have pene-
trated into the thinking of the crew. Our
stepsisters had so often proclaimed the
battleship doomed that even, battleship
men were disposed to walk humbly in the
presence of air-power experts. These ex-
perts had read every lesson into the


luwolt
m
The first 25-Pdr. Gun Howitzer mode in Australia.
As Major Co-ordinating Contractors in Victoria,
Ruwolt’s, together with many Sub-contractors, have the dis-
tinction of producing the first 25-Pdr. Gun Howitzer ever
made in Australia.
Since that gun was successfully tested, many more have
been produced at Ruwolt’s.
Although now mainly engaged on munition work we
are also able to execute much of the requirements for the
essential Metal, Paper and Rubber Industries.
Then, when Australia has successfully overcome its
present difficulties, we will again be in a position to im-
mediately attend to all your requirements, similarly to what
we have done in the past.
CHARLES EUWOLT PTY. LTD.
530 Victoria Street, Richmond, E.l
Victoria, AUSTRALIA.
700,000
TRADES UNIONISTS
bluffed by
COMMUNISTS
The Australian Council of Trades Unions,
representing 700,000 out of the total of 900,000
trades unionists in Australia, has established a
united front with the Communist Party of
Australia.
The avowed aim of the Communist Party of
Australia is the overthrow of Democracy and the
establishment of a Communist Dictatorship.
The trades unions, whose overwhelming
majority through the Australian Council of Trades
Unions are now allied with the Communists,
control the Australian Labour Party and the
Australian Labour Party controls all Labour
Governments.
The Communists control, or strongly influ-
ence, most of the key unions in Australia.
Therefore any Labour Government must be,
to that extent, the instrument of the Communist
Party.
THINK THAT OUT!
Authorised b> _ „ ,
I. de R. Barclay, Sane Democracy League, 12 Spring Street. Sydney.
, . c Leasue is to counteract revolu-
sinking of the Prince of Wales and the
Repulse except the obvious one that those
ships were not abreast of the air power
they were forced to meet.
At about noon the battle began.
Each side put its ’planes into the air
early. Our aircraft grappled with the
enemy, but 20 Baku-99 dive-bombers
pushed through the clouds.
In a split second our gunners were
handing out a steely welcome. Our
battle wagon was a howling, roaring,
racketing nest of full-tongued guns.
The Japs having sacrificed safety to
speed and manoeuvrability in their ’plane
construction, the Bakus had little or no
chance of escape. Their destruction fol-
lowed a certain fatal formula. First, a
thin stream of black smoke appeared,
then jets of flame spouted into a lengthen-
ing trail. Finally, enveloped in great,
searing clouds of fire, the ’plane plunged
down to the sea, leaving a high column
of black smoke.
Not all the Bakus were knocked down
on their way in, but those that survived
had their aim so disturbed that they did
us no harm. None of the 20 got away.
If we failed to get them to starboard, we
got them on the port side.
The long doubt as to what we could
do in the face of dive-bombers was ended.
Everyone lost his fear.
The second onslaught came at us in
waves of five or six ’planes, one follow-
ing the other about five miles, or two
minutes, apart. It was made up of dive-
bombers and Kogekiki torpedo ’planes.
Both types swooped on us simultaneously
from different directions.
We were unable to duplicate our earlier
score. The air seemed filled with ’planes
and they came from so many quarters
that we couldn’t get them all. One
bomb, possibly two, that struck on or
near the ship, doing negligible damage,
represented our debit side. No torpedo
hit. The torpedo ’planes met the hottest
reception and were forced to let go their
torpedoes far from the target, where they
became easy for the swift X and the
carrier to dodge.
One torpedo ’plane pressed in toward
the carrier with a determination that
seemed suicidal.
One of the guns on our stern appar-
ently hit his right wing, swerving him
from his course when he was very close
aboard, and the torpedo passed about 40
feet astern, landing in the general direc-
tion of the carrier, but running far wide
of its mark. As that ’plane went by I
could see it was nothing but ribbons
and twisted metal. It still had the shape
of a ’plane, but that was all, and it con-
tinued right into the water.
The third sweep contained 24 ’planes,
both dive-bombers and torpedo carriers.
A shift in weather caused me uneasi-
ness. We were now fighting in a kind
of dark pall. The Nip had changed his
tactics also. Instead of rushing in head-
long, he proceeded now with grim wari-
ness. The dive-bombers were flying in
until directly above the carrier or the X,
then diving vertically on us. That gave
us virtually no warning. There is only
one answer to that problem—a large
number of small guns firing a shell heavy
enough to destroy a ’plane and so light
and quick-acting that they can be brought
to bear on an objective streaking down
at incredible speed directly on a ship.
Such firing requires the utmost in cool-
headedness and accuracy.
After a few seconds of this type of
assault I began to see the diving ’planes,
struck in mid-air, straightening out and
falling into the water in a blazing column.
During the final two minutes of this
third ordeal four bombers appeared
overhead. The first three released their
bombs harmlessly, their aim having been
disrupted by our terrific fire. The last
came on with a sort of single-minded
vindictiveness. I thought “If we don’t
get him he’ll get us.”
He waited until the last possible in-
stant to release his bomb, 100 feet above
our forecastle.
It struck the No. 1 turret top, about
a foot from the edge, the armor absorb-
ing most of its destructive power. A
sliver of metal found my neck, severing
the jugular vein, and I, naturally, lost
consciousness.
The bomb was no baby. Our best esti-
mates put its weight at 5001 b. or better.
It did the hull of the ship as little harm
as a flea bite on an elephant. Yet it dealt
death to a man and wounds to a number
of men.
So ended the sea-air engagement of
Santa Cruz. The Jap air force had been
decisively beaten. The conditions had anc ] ent
favored the enemy, yet the enemy was
powerless to harm us or our charge, the
carrier, beyond the nominal damage just
described.
The Santa Cruz battle does not, of
course, settle the controversy over air
and surface power. It did confirm for
me an impression which I had long had,
viz., that no actual ground for con-
troversy exists. The answer is not ’planes
or ships, but ’planes and ships.
Dragnet Digest.
(Condensed from various acknowledged
sources .)
Extract from “Stars and Stripes,” the weekly
newspaper published for American armed forces
in the Middle East: “A soldier in the Middle
East who once was a successful artist drew a
cartoon for the ‘Stars and Stripes’ not long ago.
We did not print the cartoon because soldiers
are not supposed to get involved in matters
which could be termed political. But we will
tell you what the cartoon portrayed. John L.
Lewis, in miner’s dress, was throwing dirt with
a coal shovel upon the freshly-marked grave
of some kid in North Africa. It was a grim,
bitter piece of work. And God knows it ex-
pressed the attitude of the overwhelming major-
ity of soldiers in this and any other theatre.”
—Reprinted in N.Y. “Times.”
:|s * * *
The influential “Yorkshire Post,” describing
itself as “formerly a stout champion” of De
Gaulle, accused him of stubbornness in the
June negotiations. The “Post” said his apparent
desire not to figure in the eyes of his com-
patriots as a puppet of the British “has led
him to assert a rather touchy independence
at our expense,” and that “there are signs he is
adopting a similar attitude towards the Ameri-
cans, now that he has come within their sphere
of influence.” — N.Y. “Herald Tribune;’'’
* * * *
“So long as we control Guadalcanal and New
Guinea the Japanese cannot really hurt us. Of
course, if some disaster should befall, the
picture would be changed.”— US. Rear-
Admiral R. K. Turner, who organised the in-
vasion armada for Guadalcanal.
By keeping the battlefront well away from
her island fortress Japan has been able steadily
to improve her shipping-tonnage position. In
this programme she is aided by slave labor, for
it is certain that she has dispatched thousands
of natives from the conquered areas to work in
her shipyards and factories. —Hendrik de
Leeuw; N.Y. “Herald Tribune.”
# * * *
To the nomad tribes in the mountains of Iran
the sight of the products of American factories
moving day and night across the land must be
as startling and awesome as a miracle. The
kingdom of Persia has been turned
almost overnight into one of the great supply
corridors of the world. From the vast new
ports and assembly plants on the Persian Gulf
to the bursting storehouses of Tabriz and the
banks of the Caspian, a steady stream of Ameri-
can machines —bombers, tanks, trucks, guns,
jeeps, tractors —flows to the Soviet border. This
is one of the two great delivery lines of aid
to Russia. The Russians did not think much
of it when it was opened. What has actually
happened is that the deliveries have arrived
faster and in greater volume than the Russians
can handle them. — N.Y. “Times.”
* * * *
MacArthur, most of the time with insufficient
forces, has put up a classic fight a-ia ne
Japs. He stopped them 32 miles out of Port
Moresby, then drove them relentlessly bacK
over the Owen Stanley Mountains, back from
Buna and Gona, and finally out of all Papua.
This campaign has been analysed by military
experts as one of the most brilliant campaigns
of this war. — N.Y. “Daily News.”
* * *
Asked to comment on the whispering cam-
paign concerning members of the Waacs, Mrs.
Roosevelt replied without a moment’s hesi-
tation that the rumors were Nazi propaganda,
designed to injure Waac recruiting. Appar-
ently quite disturbed by the spread of rumors
such as one that a number of Waacs were
being returned from North Africa because of
pregnancy, Mrs. Roosevelt asked, “Will we
ever get over believing Nazi propaganda?”—
N.Y. “Herald Tribune.”
;jt Jfc % *
Germany has probably suffered between
2,000,000 and 3,000,000 casualties—dead, per-
manently disabled, prisoners and missing. The
Luftwaffe has been weakened. German military
and civilian morale has been impaired and bom-
bardment and blockade have greatly intensified
the basic shortage for which Germany can find
no substitute —the shortage of man-power.
These are conclusions and estimates of experts
in the military, economic and political field.
The consensus was that Germany was weaken-
ing, but that she was still strong, and that the
“Fortress of Europe” would be difficult to
seize. —Hanson W. Baldwin; N.Y. “Times.”
* * * *
By newspapers, newsreels, radio and school-
teachers the Japanese people are being told:
“This is a 100-year war.” Authority for this
information is Senor Ramon Muniz Lavalle,
Argentine diplomatic attache believed to be the
last Latin-American to get out of Japan. Senor
Lavalle made his getaway last January 19, and
has put in considerable time since men trying
to tell North Americans what kind of enemy
Japan is—that the Japanese are being con-
ditioned to the idea that this is going to be
a 100-year war. It would most likely be wise
of us to cultivate some of this Japanese-style
resignation to the idea of a long, tough war,
and to pigeonhole some of our rosier notions
that it will be over almost before we know it. If
we prove to be mistaken in expecting a long war
we’ll be happily surprised. If we don’t well
be able to stand the dragging, bloody years with
fortitude. It is frequently wise to brace your-
self for the worst that can happen.— “ Collier’s.”


Divorce Notice.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE
OF VICTORIA.— In Divorce.
TO GEORGE STEWART MIDDLETON for-
merly of No. 67 Sycamore Street Caulfield
Motor Mechanic. —TAKE NOTICE that your
wife EVA MAVIS MIDDLETON has instituted
proceedings against you for Divorce No. 795
of 1943 on the ground of desertion during three
years and upwards UNLESS you enter an
appearance in the Prothonotary’s Office of the
Supreme Court at Melbourne on or before the
Thirty-first day of August 1943 the case may
proceed in your absence and you may be
ordered to pay costs AND TAKE FURTHER
NOTICE that if you intend to defend the suit
of your said wife you must cause an answer to
be filed in the said office on or before the 10th
day of September 1943.—F. A. CURRIE,
Stalbridge Chambers, 443 Little Collins Street,
Melbourne. Judge, J. R. MACFARLAN.
STOP™* Rupture
Worries/
Mark ® locaHan,
of YOUR RUPTURE
Try the new Roussel
Appliance Free. En-
ables you to do hard
work with comfort and
security. Definitely
bolds, a condition ab-
solutely necessary for
Improvement or recov-
ery. Recommended by
Doctors. Satisfaction
guaranteed no matter
where you live. Send for details, self-
measurement form, testimonials and 14 days’
free trial offer. No obligation.
THE ROUSSEL APPLIANCE CO.,
(Dept. 27), 9 Martin , Place, Sydney.
THE
lIMITCn insurance
U Nl I CU COMPANY LTD.
ESTABLISHED 1862.
Head Office :
George and Hunter Sts., Sydney
All classes of Fire, Marine and
Accident Insurances effected at
Lowest Current Rales.
The “United” is an Australian Institution
A. 0. DAWSON, T. 0. REYNOLDS',
Gen. Manager. Asst. Gen. Manager.
DOAN’S
BACKACHE
KIDNEY PILLS
Used successfully for backache and
kidney troubles the world over by
millions of people.
If you suffer from Backache and
Kidney Trouble take a course of
DOAN’S PILLS at once. They will soon
make you well.
SOLD BY ALL CHEMISTS
AND STOREKEEPERS.
Foster-McClellan Co.,
Proprietors,
15 Hamilton St., Sydney.
For Australia at War
fds
QYe
LATHES . . . CAPSTAN TURRET LATHES
SHAPING, MILLING and PLANING
MACHINES .... BORING MILLS
MACHINE-CUT GEARS for the Trade
*
MARS MACHINE TOOL Manfg. Go.
Pty. Ltd. Bridge Street, Valley, Brisbane
• Spotted at strategic points across the country are scores of small
isolated buildings which shelter the radio facilities of the skyways.
On mountain and in valley ... on plain and desert. .. these sturdy
outposts must maintain their constant vigil, flashing into the skies
the "radio beams” that guide the pilot on his course.
• These buildings must be light and easily assembled—yet the
exterior walls tough enough to take all sorts of weather. Tempered
Presdwood—a Masonite hardboard—has been selected as the
material best suited to meet these exacting specifications. Built in
sections—easily erected—the little houses of Tempered Presdwood
are playing an important part in aviation.
A few of the war uses of Masonite: army huts
. . . MILITARY HOSPITALS . . . CANTEENS . . . FIRST AID
TRAILERS . . . PARACHUTE FOLDING TABLES . . . C.C.C. HUTS
. . . CONCRETE FORMING . . . AIR RAID PRECAUTIONS . . .
FACTORY ASSEMBLY TABLES . . . REPLACING METAL IN MOTOR
BODIES, REFRIGERATORS.
CABINETS, FURNITURE, etc.
. . . PATTERN MAKING . . .
DIE STOCKS . . . AND IN-
NUMERABLE OTHER IM-
PORTANT WAR USES.
$
MA43-43
MASONITE PRESDWOOD...TEMPEREDPRESDWOOD...TEMPRTILE...QUARTRBOARD DE LUXE
Manufactured by MASONITE CORPORATION (AUST.) LTD. from wood fibre
Distributors: THE COLONIAL SUGAR REFINING CO. LTD.
(Building Materials Division)
SYDNEY . . . MELBOURNE . . . BRISBANE . . . ADELAIDE . . . PERTH
INVEST YOUR SAVINGS IN WAR BONDS FOR POST-WAR USE
mtm
•'■ •;•••;• ■ ,-
K'n-
m
?►
10 for 1/1
20 for 2/2
they never vary
Save - or Slave. Pul
all you've got into £lO
National Savings Bonds.
Carreras Ltd.-154 Years* Reputation for Quality
5065 8
SERVICE DEPARTMENT.
Wants.
Words of the song “The Wild Colonial Boy”
wanted by Diggers in remote camp. —3363.
To buy Coast to Coast, 1941. —3364.
Information Sought.
(1) What causes osteoarthritis? (2) Can a
patient aged 50 who has had the disease for 12
months be cured; if so, by what treatment ?
If incurable, what can be done in alleviation?
(1) Osteoarthritis is not a systemic disease
but, particularly in the larger joints, is present
in practically all persons over 50 and is a very
important cause of invalidism in the elderly.
Damage to a joint is a frequent cause, and
injuries even in early life may many years later
produce severe osteoarthritis. Abnormal strain
on joints due to faulty posture often results
in osteoarthritic changes, as does great increase
in body weight. In fattish people the knee
joints are often attacked by the disease. (2)
Not much chance of complete cure. Treatment:
Sunlight, a light diet of green vegetables and
fresh fruit and very little meat. Wheat germ
and cod-liver oil are often helpful. Any obvious
source of infection (e.g., septic teeth) should
be eradicated. Much relief in recent years
has resulted from the employment of protein-
shock therapy, the so-called “gold treatment
and by the production of “artificial fever.
* * * *
Any information available about the
genheimer Institute for the assistance of de-
serving persons engaged in scientific research .
The John Simon Guggenheim Memorial
Foundation, New York City (551 Fifth-avenue),
grants fellowships to citizens and permanent
residents of the United States to assist research
in any field of knowledge and creative work m
any of the fine arts. The Fellowships are awarded
to men and women who have demonstrated un-
usual capacity for productive scholarship or un-
usual creative ability in the fine arts, and are
granted for periods depending on the amount
of time needed by the Fellows for the work they
propose. The stipends granted Fellows are
normally $2500 a year. Fellows may go to any
part of the world where their work can best
be done. The Foundation also offers a limited
number of Fellowships, for work in the United
States, to Canadians and, on its Latin-Amencan
Fellowship plan, to Puerto Ricans and to
citizens of Argentina, Brazil, Chile, Cuba,
Mexico, Peru and Uruguay. The purpose of
the Foundation is “the advancement and dif-
fusion of knowledge and understanding and the
appreciation of beauty by aiding, without dis-
tinction on account of race, color or creed,
scholars, scientists and artists of either sex in
the prosecution of their labors.
* * * *
Is it true that if a full-blooded negro mates
with a full-blooded white person the resulting
offspring (if any) will be either pure black or
pure white ?
No. Every child will be of a blended or
mulatto shade.
* * * *
Can borers in furniture be eradicated ?
Look carefully over every inch of wood for
borer holes (usually indicated by fine wood-
dust near by) and push thin flexible wire up
each as far as possible. With fine oilcan squirt
turps or eucalyptus into each cavity, finally
sealing with putty.
Brief Answers.
L.W.: There are no such diseases as catarrh
of the stomach and catarrh of the bladder....
1.5.: Very difficult to answer these questions
from data available in Australia; have forwarded
your letter to the Rockefeller Institute, New
York City, U.S.A C.W.: During the 1914-18
war, Melba raised upwards of £lOO,OOO in Aus-
tralia, England and America by singing for war
funds. Cannot trace the matter you mention.
E.J.C.: Apply to Registrar-General, Gen-
eral Register Office, Charlemont House, Dublin,
giving all available information; cost should be
about ss. 3d D.R.: The difference is that
the area of four sq. m. is four sq. m,; of a
four-mile square it is 16 sq. m.
Answers to Correspondents
Name and address must appear on the MS. No
liability is undertaken re contributions voluntarily
submitted; and no MS. will be returned unless
stamps accompany. MS. should be addressed to
the Editor.
The Muse aroused:
W.N.H.:
Farewell, and. a long farewell, you flaming old Musso.
The day you joined with Adolf you caught the wrong
busso.
H.B.: Atmosphere good, story pallid....
K.W.R.: Read Tarka the Otter or Man-Shy
and see how much you’ve left 0ut....8.M.:
Unreal A.H.G.: No harm in trying
E.M.: Just a little poem about poppies....
M.F.; Too much water in “Ode to a Milk-
bar” K.H.: The verse form leads you into
over-compression. “Stage a final, floor-bound
skip” is a singularly undramatic description of
the last flight of the sausages D.H.R.: No
use for “sentimental descriptive effort”
R.G.C.: “I will repent.” D 0... .M.L.G.:
Thistledown R.P.: Should appeal to any
magazine read exclusively by horses A.D.8.:
Shelley will never forgive you for comparing
him with “The Stag at Bay”... .A.H.W.:
“What need have we to seek the dross of divers
tribes?” Divers scribes before you have put it
much more pithily N.S.: Slight J.W.W.:
“My Shadder” is only a shadder of what you
meant it to be K.W.R.: No dying dingoes,
please J.J.L.: Good pictures in a sentimental
frame W.R.: Two lines from old Ballarat:
Odd that a place so all bewitching
Should once be termed “the Devil’s Kitchen.”
R.V.J.: Tut H.E.R.: “A wee bit of
verse, though I’m better prose.” Better try
a wee bit of prose, then... .F.W.F.: No “tints
sublime” in either Mudlark: Very muddy.
L.L.: “Should it not be any use, it’s a
cert, for the w.p.b.” A cert, it is D.O’S.:
Too little story in ’em; and too little humor.
G.H.H.: “He knew the elephants were
rogues because of the different-toned snorts.”
No matter in what tone they snort, we don’t
like rogue elephants R.H.P.: Opens pleas-
antly, becomes magazinish.


CORN IN EGYPT
Biblical records bear witness to the importance of food
storage, for Joseph stored corn in Egypt against the seven
lean years, and people came from far and wide to avail
themselves of his wise provision.
To-day, man has greater control than ever over the vagaries
of food production, but the problems of storage have
increased rather than diminished in magnitude and com-
plexity. Primitive communities were limited in size by these
considerations, but the application of science has now made
possible the fantastic populations of the big cities of the
world.
More vital than ever is the preservation of food. Millions
of tons of perishables arc being accumulated and transported
for the needs of Services and civilians, and eked out over
the lean seasons. Food must be held in trust for starving
millions in the Northern Hemisphere, and although in war-
time the cost, as a yardstick of human effort, is of lesser
import, in post-war years necessities must be rendered cheap
and plentiful.
In the solution of these great problems of preservation and
storage, and of course to an even greater extent in produc-
tion, chemicals, as in most other avenues of human activity,
play an important part. Chemists and researchers wage
incessant warfare against the arch-enemies of life. They
have developed powerful weapons against the bacteria of
decay; detergents to keep containers clean; fertilisers, insecti-
cides and sprays to multiply the fruits of the earth;
refrigerants to preserve them.
IMPERIAL CHEMICAL INDUSTRIES
OF AUSIRALIA & NEW ZEALAND LTD.
ICI. 4. 16
COMMONWEALTH
CONVERSION
LOAN
HOLDERS of Inscribed Stock or Treasury Bonds
MATURING ON 15th AUGUST, 1943,
are invited to convert their holdings into equal
amounts of stock or bonds in the new loan.
APPLICATIONS may be made through any
Bank, Savings Bank, Money Order Post Office or
Stockbroker.
TERMS OF NEW LOAN
INTEREST — 2{°/ 0 for 4-S years.
3\°/o for 7-16 years.
The Loan is issued' at par under the authority of the
Australian Loan Council.
No cash subscriptions will be accepted In the new loan
IT WILL HELP THE WAR EFFORT
IF YOU CONVERT YOUR MATUR-
ING STOCK OR BONDS AND
YOU ARE URGED TO DO SO.
CONVERSION LOAN CLOSES ON 16th AUGUST, 1943
C.L. 1-27
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
Australian Consolidated Industries, Ltd-
f Dividends Nominal
Net Pref. Be-
Mar., Profit. 9 p.c. Ordinaries. serves.
£ £
’33 122,439 15,750 9 p.c. = 83,743 506,087
’34 129,602 15,760 9 ~ „ 83,743 536,196
To superannuation fund, £5OOO . . 531,196
’35 175,522 15,750 13 p.c. = 120,962 570,006
’36 205,493 15,750 15 „ „ 139,572 620,17<
’37 231,199 15,750 15 ~ „ 139,572 696,054
’3B 287,628 15,750 15 „ „ 139,572 828,360
Surplus sale assets, £4,331.718 . . 5,160,078
Bonus scrip issued, £2,558,814 . . 2,601,264
'39 324,512 15,750 6.861 p.c. = 239,598 2,670,428
A.C.I. and Sub idiaries.!
Share premiums, £99,694 . . . . 2,770,122
’4O 433,271 15,750 7 p.c. = 251,229 3,004,532
Share premiums, £99,694 .. .. 3,104,226
’4l 410,777 15,750 8 p.c. = 320,003 3,179,250
May,
Share premiums, £49,847 .. . . 3,229,097
’42§ 427,864 15,750 7i p.c. = 318,273 3,322,938
Loss, sale of assets, £1869 . . 3,321,069
’43 329,324 15,750 6J p.c. = 302,821 3,331,822
* Subject to goodwill, etc. (now £2,384,770').
f Deducting outside interests in profits and reserves.
1 On enlarged capital. § 14 months.
While bottles remain the chief article
produced, the co. practically possessing
a monopoly in the Australian trade,
A.C.1., which was before the war known
as Australian Glass, now has 28 factories,
“representing more than a score of dif-
ferent industries, secondary and primary,
with 7000 employees, the annual wages
bill exceeding £2,250,000.” Among those
other industries are engineering, plastics,
metal-stamping, fibre-carton making and
printing. The engineering sections are
considerable. The co. has stated that “it
was in the year 1938 that we started to
build our first munitions annexe at the
request of Prime Minister J. A. Lyons.
Since then the technical members of our
staff continue to give the benefit of their
expert advice to various departments on
aspects of war-material production.”
There has been an outturn of tools to
work with and weapons to fight with.
Since April, 1940, the co. has spent more
than £1,500,000 on buildings and plant.
shareholders providing £1,246,176 of new
capital.
But holders are not reaping any
present reward from war-time activi-
ties, as the introductory table indicates.
Following official inquiries into the co.’s
affairs, in February, 1942, the price of
bottles was reduced by 6} p.c. and sheet
glass by 1\ p.c. The departmental argu-
ment was that increasing output was re-
ducing unit costs. The chairman of
A.C.I. says that selling prices are now
the lowest for 20 years, and that increas-
ing costs —up considerably since the in-
vestigations took place—are beating the
efforts of the management and staff to
cope with the problem by greater effi-
ciency and improved technique. Profits
will henceforth show the inroads of costs
unless price relief is forthcoming, which
seems doubtful in view of the official
ceiling. There is a great reluctance on
the part of industry to ask for subsidies.
Since war began A.C.I. has refunded
£BO,OOO on Government contracts.
During the 12 months to May 31 (or
nearest prior balance date) the co. and
its subsidiaries showed a net profit of
£329,827. There was an unexplained re-
duction of £503 in general reserve,
leaving the final figure at £329,324, down
£98,540 compared with the preceding
period, which included 14 months’ income
other than from the subsidiaries. The
latest figure is equal to a shade under
7 p.c. on ord. capital, allowing for the
9 p.c. prefs., compared with 9.4 p.c. in
the preceding period. The distribution to
the ords. was dropped from p.c. to
6| p.c.
Reserves stand at £3,331,822, subject
to £2,384,770 of goodwill and patent
rights. There was a surplus of £4,331,718
shown at the time of the changeover
from Australian Glass to A.C.I. during
the 1939 term, about half of it arising
from the value put on goodwill. From
the surplus, £2,558,814 in bonus scrip
was handed out (11 new shares to every
four old ords.). From a new cash issue of
ords. in September, 1939, £249,235 was
added to reserves by way of premiums.
Although goodwill is within £947,052
of the figure at which reserves
appeared in the last accounts, at
50s. 6d. each for the 4,486,233 ords.
issued the market clearly does not con-
sider that goodwill is overvalued. Nor
is it worried, apparently, about the
present low rate of earning, accepting
an immediate return of 2.7 p.c. at current
price and div.
Among balance-sheet figures the largest
tangible item remains stocks:
Consolidated Balance Sheet Figures.
1940. 1942. 1943.
Paid capital . . £4,062,601 £4,661,151 £4,661,233
Outside interests* 38,117 48,604 43,456
Sundry creditors! 509,706 1,018,045 1,214,601
Inter-co. balance! 12,819 202,669
Freehold .. .. 1,185,654 1,553,932 1,587,773
Plant, etc. . . 1,268,013 1,625,489 1,615,193
Shares, etc. . . 753,847 757,016 772,910
Stacks . . . . 1,454,793 1,716,995 1,796,461
Debtors . . . . 500,427 932,106 1,028,158
Consols and cash 107,870 265,468 422,204
Intangibles . . 2,377,385 2,389,666 2,384,770
Inter co. balance! 43,946
* Including proportion reserves. + Including tax
provision, etc. ! Due to differences in balance date.
There was an increase of £80,456 in in-
ventories last term. Outlay on fixed
assets, although stated to be over
£1,500,000 in tnree years, was only a net
£23,545 for the past 12 months. The
total net growth in three years has
been £749,299, indicating that depre-
ciation has not been neglected; but
in view of what are called in
Britain “terminal losses,” anticipated
at the termination of the war, time may
show allowances not to have been over-
done. There was an increase of £196,556
last year in the outside debt, bringing it
up to £1,214,601 ; it includes provision for
taxation and contingencies. Amounts owed
to the A.C.I. group rose by £96,052 to
£I,U/B,laB. The holding of £772,910 in
shares in other cos. probably included
something in J. and A. Brown and
Masonite Corporation A.C.I. Invest-
ments had 190,000 shares in the former
on 14/10/’4l and 38,513 ords, and 10,000
deferreds in the latter on 9/9/’42. There
is also an interest in Associated Pulp and
Paper.
An item which the widespread organi-
sation has worked up to notable extent
since war started is optical glass. Aus-
tralia is now independent of outside
sources for its service needs. An aspect
of the business that seems sure of added
importance after the war is plastics. It
may involve co-operation with other big
interests.
Robert Harper and Co., Ltd.
, Dividends ~
A B Nominal
Pref. Ord. Ord. To Re- Re-
Mar., Profit. 7 p.c. 8 p.c. 6 p.c. serves, serves.*
£ A. £ £ £ £
1933.. 34,167 10,500 19,200 2400 2,067 308,943
1934.. 36,366 10,500 19,200 2400 4.266 313,209
1935.. 42,324 10,500 19,200 2400 10,224 323.433
1936.. 37,267 10,500 19,200 2400 5,167 328.600
1937.. 40,835 10,500 19,200 2400 8,736 337.335
1938.. 39,841 10,500 19,200 2400 7,741 345,076
From contingencies reserve, £31,037 .. 396,113
1939.. 37,876 10,500 19,200 2400 5,776 401,889
1940.. 41,453 10,500 19,200 2400 9,353 411,242
1941.. 36,717 10,500 19,200 2400 4,617 415,859'
1942.. 32,360 10,500 19,200 2400 260 416,119
1943.. 37,837 10,500 19,200 2400 5,737 421,856
* Subject to goodwill, £BO,OOO.
Earnings have shown a recovery in
spite of all the burdens imposed on trad-
ing activities and financial results. In
regard to trading, this representative dry-
goods co. refers to ( a ) the shortage of
stocks for civilian requirements, ( b ) the
shortage of man-power, and (c) the short-
age of shipping space. As to financial
results, taxation is heavy, and there
is no rebate when income passes on
to shareholders in the form of dividends.
There are many regulations to cope with,
and a superfluity of civil servants seems
to be making additional work for pro-
ductive industry rather than reducing it
or smoothing it out.
In regard to transport difficulties,
Harper’s is fortunate in having, in addi-
tion to the Melbourne headquarters, fac-
tories in N. S. Wales, Queensland and
Westralia, and in the past year these
“have functioned well, despite our in-
ability to keep them fully supplied with
some of the raw materials they require.”
Furthermore, “the demands of the de-
fence authorities for feeding our own
army, navy and air forces and those of
our Allies have substantially increased,
so that our turnover for the year has
been well maintained.” In the preceding
term turnover had been the best for a
decade.
After supporting, as usual, the Red
Cross and the Comforts Fund, contribut-
ing to the co.’s own employees’ fund, and
setting aside £3310 for depreciation
(down £573), net profit for the year was
£5477 higher at 10.4 p.c. on ord. capital,
after handing the prefs. their 7 p.c. and
6 p.c. to the B (employees’) ords., com-
pared with 8, 9.9 and 11.9 p.c. in the
three preceding periods. All divs. were
maintained at their customarily steady
rate, and reserves benefited by £5737,
reaching £421,856, subject to goodwill
account of £BO,OOO.
Of last year’s improvement in profit,
£953 came from investment income
(£17,547) and £3950 from trading
(£25,250), subject to depreciation and
directors’ fees (£4960 in all). The great
accumulation of investments outside the
business is seen in this comparison of
balance-sheet figures;
1934. 1939. 1942. 1948.
Paid capital... £430,000 £430,000 £430,000'£430,000
Sundry creditors 47,2 9 7 34,24 3 4 5,700 41,359
Tax reserve . . 20,00 0 20,000 43,000 50,000
Freeholds . . 146,188 144,2 6 4 144,401 144,440
Plant, etc. . . 42,251 38,574 28,912 24,739
Stocks.. . . 163,4 3 2 1 26,6 1 6 103,45 8 120,609'
S'undry debtors 95,905 92,241 102,832 69,410
Government securi-
ties, cash, etc. 2 7 8,7 8 0 4 20,4 8 7 491,268 520,068
Last year there was an increase of £17,151
in the book value of stock, and, because
of “Government orders being paid for
promptly and of payments by debtors
tending to be made punctually by reason
of the plentiful supply of money,” book
debts were reduced £33,422. Most of the
surplus funds made available, plus some
cash brought forward, went into Govern-
ment securities (£451,302, up £50,000).
The Harper concern has been built up
solidly both as to manufacturing and
trading and as to financial structure. Its
former chairman, the late Alex. Bell,
ranked high among Australian adminis-
trators and practical economists. The
co. is a shining example of what manage-
ment can be made to mean in a com-
petitive field like drygoods. Bell left an
able team to carry on where he left off.
The policy of keen, free trading with the


i
s a
— ---x - rocfl
iP
hS
YES
• they
had everything
while he lived
.... but he had failed to have
his life assured as a precaution
against an untimely death. Do
not leave YOUR family without
ample protection. Arrange now
for an assurance policy.
EQUITABLE PROBATE
AND GENERAL INSURANCE CO LTD
Head Office: 371-373 Queen St,, Brisbane
Wingello House, Angel Place, Sydney.
Collins House, Collins Street, Melbourne.
IS. V PERKINS, General Manager
60£S/
After a few appli-
cations of _ Mc-
Mahon's Hair Re-
storer . . . leav-
ing the scalp clean and fresh. Mc-
Mahon's is quickly effective for scurf,
Itching and dryness of the scalp and
for falling hair. Good, too, for
cradle-cap . . . because McMahon's
may be used on the tenderest scalp.
McMahon's Hair Restorer promotes
growth, keeps the hair lustrous and
soft.
Obtainable from Chemists, Hair-
dressers and Stores.
Wholesale: Craig & Aitken Pty, Ltd..
Sydney.
HAIR RESTORER
PUBLIC TRUSTEE
Acts A.s
Trustee, Executor,
Administrator, Agent
or Attorney.
Under STATE GUARANTEE.
Absolute Security.
Estates efficiently and
economically managed.
WRITE OR CALL FOR
FREE BOOKLET.
19 O'Connell St. (Box 7A, G.P.0.),
Sydney.
W. B. Geddes, Public Trustee.
INVENTORS. —Have you an idea worth patenting?
Griffith, Hnssel and Griffith, Patent Attorneys,
Asbestos House, Cr. York and Barrack Streets, Sydney,
obtain Commonwealth and foreign patents.— Advt.
* * * *
DAVIKS & COLLISON, Patent Attorneys, Collins
House, 360 Collins Street, Melbourne, C.l. Austra-
lian and overseas Patents anf* Trade Marks. — Advt.
The Truth About
STRIKES
Under Curtin fewer man-hours per week have been
lost through strikes than under Menzies. Under
Menzies 21,000 man-days a week were lost. Under
Curtin this has been reduced to 8000.
The Truth About
COMMUNISM
“The Australian Labor Party has no association with
or affiliation with any other party or faction, nor
with Communism or any other ism.
“Labor candidates are selected by properly constituted
Australian Labor bodies. Other candidates purport-
ing to be Labor or supporting Labor are not official
Labor candidates and have no participation whatever
in the making of Labor Governments or the shaping
of Labor policy/' —JOHN CURTIN.
The Truth About
CURTIN
(From the “Sydney Morning Herald.”)
‘‘He (Mr. Curtin) has consistently shown himself
devoted to national above party ends. AUSTRALIA
HAS BEEN FORTUNATE TO FIND IN MR.
CURTIN A PRIME MINISTER WHOSE JUDG-
MENT, COURAGE AND COOLNESS HAVE
STOOD THE NATION IN GOOD STEAD DUR-
ING THE MOST MEMORABLE AND DANGER-
OUS MONTHS OF HER HISTORY.”
There could be no national unity under a Party
which is divided against itself. That auto-
matically eliminates the U.A.P. and Country
Party—now in revolt against their own leader’s
policy. There could be no coalition between
a steadfast, united Labor Government and a
Party which cannot agree on either the principle
or details of its own platform. That dis-
penses with the myth of National Government.
SUPPORT YOUR
OFFICIAL LABOR
CANDIDATE!
Authorised by J. Stewart, M.L.C., Parliament House, Sydney.'
grocery trade in general Continues, the
co. avoiding silent partnerships in retail
establishments, which tend to stretch
finances and restrict a wholesaler’s good-
will.
Conversion Loan
Applications are being invited for con-
version of the £13,165,380 loan carrying
3i p.c. which matures on August 15. No
cash applications are asked for. Those
converting will have the option of taking
a four-five-year issue at 2\ p.c, or a seven-
-16-year issue at 3i p.c.
On the strength of good deep-ground
developments, Sons of Gwalias are
quoted, ex 2s. div., at the ceiling price of
295. 9d. buyer. Ore reserves of a little
above 6dwt. average grade are still about
six years’ supply at the present rate of
output. To combat the increase in costs,
inevitable under war-time conditions, the
management is doing its best. Average
scrip price last year was 225. 9d. There
are 325,000 10s. shares issued.
Lake View Trust, like similar under-
takings domiciled in London, encoun-
tered many adverse factors last year, in-
cluding heavier taxation and surrender
of dollar securities, chairman Sandford
Poole told shareholders at the annual
meeting. Large sums of money had been
lent to the Government at rates lower
than paid on the co.’s own debenture
stock. Chief variations in the portfolio
were a rise in the percentage of British
bonds and a decline in debentures and
preference shares. Drop in revenue due
to loss of income from investments in
occupied territories was very moderate,
and the ability to maintain the 9 p.c.
dividend and increase the carry-forward
was a sign of strength, Poole said.
He % #
Consolidated Gold Areas (W.A.) an-
nounces that, as insufficient of the 100 £5O
6 p.c. debentures offered to shareholders
were applied for, no allotment has been
made. Realising that it must either get
money somehow or put its shutters up,
co. now urges shareholders to take up
150,000 ordinary contributing shares held
in Blue Spec Gold Mines, N.L., at 6d.
each.
a: * * #
Compared with the previous year’s
figures, revenue of Westralia’s London-
owned Midland Railway substantially in-
creased, passenger traffic, probably
largely due to war-time factors, more than
doubled, and dividend at 4 p.c. was up
p.c. compared with the previous 12
months. In telling shareholders this at
the annual meeting the elated chairman,
Sandford Poole, said net traffic receipts
at £146,038 exceeded those of the year
before'by £48,338. Latest advices showed
that railway gross receipts for the eight
months ended February 28 last totalled
£252,708, an increase of £93,814 over
those for the corresponding period of the
previous 12 months. He added that costs
of materials and working expenses would
undoubtedly be considerably higher.
Position of general manager rendered
vacant by the death of'J. Poynton has
been filled by the appointment of D. W.
Brisbane, a Westralian engineer with
Malayan railway experience. H. B.
Jackson, who is also chairman of the
“West Australian” and other local cos.,
remains as local director, i
» * * *
From London: Withdrawal of the
3,000,0000 z. of silver lease-lent to Britain
will not, says the Washington Treasury,
cause any strain on the United States
national resources. More than 500,000,000
ounces are still stored at West Point, while
more than 1,000,0000 z. are held as back-
ing for the silver certificates issued against
them. Silver is in strong demand on
both sides of the Atlantic as a substitute
for base metals which are in short
supply, but coinage demands also have
become more insistent. A powerful argu-
ment in support of the American action
is that as much as two-thirds of the
amount sought is for coinage needs, in
which those of the United States troops
themselves in Britain and elsewhere figure
largely. Earlier in this year Britain was
faced with an acute shortage for both
industrial and coinage purposes. Her
supplies from India dried up because of
the heavily-increased domestic demand
attributable to increased war activity and
the presence of large numbers of troops.
Other sources available were inadequate.
* * # *
Profit of De Beers —the world's big-
gest diamond-producer jumped over
£1,250,000 stg. to £3,508,000 stg. for last
year. Market was active and sales very
good during the period. In Hatton
Garden circles it is estimated that the
diamond industry’s profits so far this
season have been running one-third above
last year’s rate. A common impression
that the present prosperity of diamond-
digging reflects mainly the almost insati-
able war-time demand by the United
Nations for industrial grades is erroneous.
The cream, according to the “Financial
Times,” is still put upon profits by the
sale of gemstones, which chiefly go to
the United States. Prices for gems in
the wholesale market in Hatton Garden
have at least doubled during the war.
Industrial diamonds continue to be
patriotically sold by the industry at pre-
war prices, and last February the quota
restriction on their sale was removed for
the duration. Gemstones, however, may
still be marketed only on percentages.
De Beers’s is 47y.
* * * *
N.Z. Forest Products ords. had sales at
7s. 6d. last week in Melbourne. There
is more activity in the scrip in the
southern capital than in Sydney.


ANTIMONIAL LEAD
Highest Purity
Any Desired Antimony Content
THE BROKEN HILL
ASSOCIATED SMELTERS
PROPRIETARY LIMITED
360 Collins Street, MELBOURNE
25 O’Connell Street, SYDNEY
62 Brookman Buildings, ADELAIDE
Selling Agents:
NEW SOUTH WALES:
Austral Bronze Co. Pty., Ltd., Alexandria, N.S.W.
’Phone, MX 1091.
QUEENSLAND:
Austral Bronze Co. Pty., Ltd., Perry House, Elizabeth
Street, Brisbane. ’Phone, B 9301.
VICTORIA:
H. B. Harker, C/o The Broken Hill Associated Smelters
Pty., Ltd., Melbourne. ’Phone, M 4381.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA:
A. Noble and Son, Ltd., 79 Grenfell Street, Adelaide.
’Phone, Cent. 2231.
iH-
M
Sr
v*-r.
4
r.v: ;
wy
•Vvjv*
S*>w
■"’ ;
W
8®
r&s
«V-wv'
r&fc
irigs^i
&■
iii«
T-i'
_ . . -. . ... • i
d-r.
if.-
■s
i
;s?.gj£*;V
• ’». *v • •» %
Business, Rollery, Etc.
The Limitations of “Credit”
A thing to be remembered in all
matters relating to “credit,” post-war or
otherwise, is that money issued without
the hacking of sold other desirable
the backing ot gold other desirab e
assets, services or production is liable
to create an excessive demand for
those four classes of things as soon
as free financial and market con-
ditions prevail. Price inflation is the
consequence. It is as well to remember
this even in the case of comparatively
minor issues of credit, as minor issues,
added together, make up major issues,
If our present munitions production was
civilian goods available for sale, and the
present cost of war could be recouped
by sale of goods and services to the
people, then there would be no need for
war-time taxation. As it is, most of the
expenditure on war, which had run to
£llO6 million to June 30 last, is dead loss
in a commercial sense, yet we had bor-
rowed £742 million on the strength of it.
In other words, we have paid less than
33 p.c. of our.war costs by means of
taxation, and last term the figure was
under 28 p.c. In Canada 40 p.c. of actual
defence spending and “mutual aid” is
being met out of taxation. These com-
parisons go to show that little enough
of Australia’s war effort is being paid for
out of taxation, and the part that is
being financed on loans,’from the public
or the banks, is resulting in an excessive
amount of money remaining with the
people, even allowing for the unneces-
sarily hi 8 h taxes that have to be P aid on
ac< -ount of the States.
. 18 tbere f9 re maintained here that so
long as taxatlon rates go no higher than
at p resent an y system of post-war credits
is It is a^reed that the
abundant money now visible in the sav-
j n g S banks, the note issue and elsewhere
may be badly distributed, with the possi-
bility of worse distribution soon after
the end of the war ; but it is not agreed
that in order to ensure that a minority of
“have-nots” do have some funds during
the post-war period a majority of “haves”
should also be showered with post-war
credits to add to their savings already
swollen by inadequately taxed war-time
earnings. Far better, in order to keep
money stable, to tax the “haves” tern-
porarily to look after the “have-nots”
until a peace-time momentum in industry
is regained. Such taxation, if based on
no more than necessity, would help to
bring post-war prospects into their cor-
rect perspective. After all, the change-
over from war to peace will carry with
it definite exactions, and it is fitting
that its financial reaction should be
recognised and treated appropriately as
in war-time. If we have neglected to
adopt such a course in war-time it will
only be adding to accumulated problems
if we continue our neglect in the peace,
In any case, a well-handled credit sys-
tern, without incurring further debt,
should be able to take care of almost any
employment problem, provided the infla-
don of the war period is allowed for in
our external exchange rate and similar
obstructions are ironed out. It is a good
idea to rely more on the investigation of
production and marketing possibilities
for a credit policy than it is to depend on
money factors alone. The physical fac-
tors so much a feature of our war-time
production policy should be given full
attention in the peace. There will be a
great need throughout the Common-
wealth for repairs, replacement and re-
building, and so far as the mere giving
of jobs is concerned the nation should
be able to manage this without doing
more than lend money, not give it away
outright. The mastering of the unem-
ployment problem does not rely on the
“giving away” of “credit.” The secret
really rests in the lending of money in
directions where it is known that employ-
ment given will create production that
will in turn meet with a demand. If good
judgment is displayed in choosing the
direction, the loans will be repaid out of
the profits on the production, and there
will be no charge on the national
Budget.
The issue of “free money,” or the in-
adequate taxation of a people for the
waste of war, brings about a situation in
which it is appropriate to remember the
remarks of Henry Morgenthau, Secre-
tary of the U.S. Treasury: “Inflation is
a ruthless process whereby sacrifice is im-
posed inequitably upon a people who
have lacked the unity, the courage and
the intelligence to impose it equitably
upon themselves.” We must remember
that, because of the dangers of the times
and the weakness of the Government,
many war-time concessions have been
made to the undisciplined selfishness of
Labor, and these concessions have been
the biggest single cause in our war-time
inflation, which is greater than officially
acknowledged. Sometime or other a
stand will have to be made against such
self-destructive selfishness. The economic
system will not stand unlimited abuse.
Unfairly nigh pay and Budget deficits
bridged by the use of bank credit all
eventually tell their tale in prices, pro-
duction costs and the exchange rate. And
instability and irregularity in these things
are a great destroyer of confidence, one
of the essentials of industrial enterprise
and full employment.
Back in August, 1941, before the Labor
party took office on the votes of Coles
and Wilson, the Government prosecuted
and secured convictions in the case of
the Advanx Tyre Repair Co., Sydney,
and A. T. Richardson and Sons, Mel-
bourne, for the offence against the
National Security Regulations of paying
higher than specified wages to employees,
The Crown contended that the regula-
tion had been made to prevent traffick-
ing in skilled workmen at a time when
skilled labor was urgently needed for de-
fence work. It was also contended that
the Government was concerned about the
influence of competitive wage-paying
upon the cost of the defence effort, par-
ticularly in connection with cost-plus,
How ironical when compared with pres-
ent-day conditions! Some employers
now claim that, when applying for man-
power and offering award wages, they
are told by officialdom that “you’ll never
get anybody for that money.” It is a
fact that official wage indexes, like cost-
of-living figures, have become largely
nominal, and that, in spite of its great
legal powers under the National Security
Act, the Government, through the Allied
Works Council and other such activities,
has been a most disturbing factor in its
unnecessary lavishing of wages on em-
ployees. The C.C.C. and the employment
offered to civilians by Allied forces in
Australia have been the cause of much
industrial restlessness and actual job-
changing. But the root of the whole
trouble has been the weak, vote-catching
way in which the Government has
handled labor. It has gone out of its way
to make concessions in the matter of
overtime and holiday pay, and it brought
in the 44-hour week in the maritime in-
dustries by National Security Regulation.
It can be said without a shadow of doubt
that much of the increase in money
figures relating to war spending and pro-
duction given by Mr. Curtin is due to
nothing more than inflation in wage pay-
ments. Wage inflation and inadequate
control over the direction of employment
are playing havoc in the rural areas, and
the butter subsidy will not iron all these
problems out.
* * * *
The subtlety of the serpent was
apparent in many parts of Prime Minister
Curtin’s policy speech, but now and
again he descended to downright unfair
misrepresentation. Touching on the cost
of war and the financing of it he re-
ferred to “the magnificent response”
shown by the public to appeals for loan
money, adding:
Last year nearly £2 00,000,000 was raised
by loans without the help of the trading
banks.
b / n , o^' 4 ij nl t y ha f SsSal
trading-bank subscriptions,
Necessary bank credit had been obtained
from the Commonwealth Bank at low
interest.
He did not explain that his own National
Security Regulations, brought in soon
after Labor took office, prohibit subscrip-
tion to war loans by the trading banks,
and that they are instead compelled to
transfer tfieir “surplus investible funds”
to the central bank at an interest rate of
15s. per cent. By this means the Com-
monwealth has obtained financial assist-
ance amounting to £lO4 million, nearly
all of it in the period in which the
“nearly £2OO million” was got in from
the public.
* * * *
The £26.4 million of income tax col-
lected last year by the Commonwealth
on behalf of the States was almost offset
by the amount the Commonwealth paid
in respect of interest on State debts, the
cost of which was £25.5 million.


Insure with the
AUSTRALIAN MUTUAL FIRE INSURANCE SOCIETY, LTD
ESTABLISHED 1872.
HEAD OFFICE: INSURANCE HOUSE, 109 PITT STREET, SYDNEY
Invested Funds exceed £500,000.
All classes Marine, Fire and Accident Insurance at lowest rates.
TOURISTS’ AND TRAVELLERS’ BAGGAGE INSURED.
VICTORIAN BRANCH: 411 Collins Street, Melbourne.
QUEENSLAND BRANCH : Woolworth’s Building, Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
Claims Promptly and Equitably Settled. Agents in all Principal Country Towns.
W. G. BROWN, General Manager.
INVEST IN
. o \
m
* »
WAR BONOS
n v ’ s Jr ar ft
>77 v k
1
rl M:
~'iC:
A f I f
Hr
am
ft
Close-up of the cutting too! of a
giant Richards profiling machine,
which duplicates in co!d-cut steel
from wooden patterns and templates.
SHAPING OUR DESTINY
A few years ago the mission of Richards craftsmen
was to make “Body by Richards” supreme in the free
competitive field. Today our only competitor is the
regimented might of the Axis.
With the dawn of peace and freedom. Richards will
be ready for any role . . . for the factory is equipped
to make its own implements, and its management
and craftsmen have the initiative and enterprise
to take a full share in the work of reconstruction.
RtBHARRS
INDUSTRIES || LIMITED
PLANNING FOR PEACE WHILE GEARED FOR WAR!
R&MC.
R 443
m
Ul- \
rrm
.-■> SK
*r
V'>-
»?x
mm
mi
2*^
-« v
“I’m reminding you that peaceful days
will come . . . and with the return of peace,
you’ll be able to relax and think of home
comforts. For the time being, take care
of your Feltex floor covering . . . and invest
what you save in War Bonds.”
FELT & TEXTILES OF AUSTRALIA LIMITED
Manufacturers of Feltex Floor Covering.
Form a Group! Join a Group! Buy War Savings Certificates.
Coles and Co.
G. J. Coles and Co., the chain-store
concern of which A. W. Coles, M.H.R.
for Henty and chairman of the War-
Damage Commission, is a director, has
reduced its div. from 121 p.c. to
10 p.c. This is the lowest distri-
bution since the rate was lifted
from 10 p.c. to 121 p.c. in the 1935
term, which was just about the time
of the rumpus on the board and among
shareholders in the matter of the amount
directors were cutting up among them-
selves. At the annual meeting in 1935
A. W. Coles, who found himself in argu-
ment with his brother, George J. Coles,
would not disclose the full amount, but
admitted that “three employees, who are
also directors, have received more then
£lO,OOO a year each, largely as a per-
centage on profits.” A. W. Coles at this
time was managing director of the co.
(today he holds this job jointly with two
other members of the Coles family), and
was chairman of some of the share-
holders’ meetings of the period.
G. J. Coles, founder of the business,
claimed that he had been voted out of the
chair in July, 1936. It was G.J. who pro-
tested against the method of remunerating
the directors and asked for the appoint-
ment to the board of two investors outside
the business “in order to modify the
present system of directors who are also
executives making contracts with them-
selves under which they draw large sums
without the knowledge of shareholders.”
He added “it is quite wrong for such
directors to take the stand virtually that
they own the company, and will tell share-
holders only so much as they think fit
in relation to these matters.” He also
said that the working directors’ remunera-
tion figures (£63,000 in 1934-35 and
£57,000 in 1935-36) mentioned by J. B.
Tait, a shareholder, at the 1936 annual
meeting were underestimates.
A. W. Coles expressed regret that the
disagreement had arisen, and said he be-
lieved explanations wou'.|d “satisfy all
shareholders and my brother.” The whole
wrangle was eventually settled by the re-
appointment of G. J. Coles as chairman,
the election of two “outside” shareholders
to the board, and the promise of subse-
quent disclosure of total payments to
directors. These were shown in the next
year’s accounts as “directors’ salaries and
fees, £15,989,” with an item of “bonuses,”
to whom unspecified, wrapped up indis-
tinguishably with all other administration
exes. Profits available for shareholders
thereafter went on expanding until 1940,
the div. averaging 18 p.c. during the five
years to the close of accounts in 1941.
Stock-replacement difficulties and taxa-
tion have been the chief factors in the
fall in profits and the div. since.
Minimising—as far as was in his power
of illusion —the record of strikes and
absenteeism that has accompanied his
Government’s administration, the Prime
Minister said: “This has been achieved
although the Government’s policy
against inflation pegged the wages of
workers and imposed other restrictions.”
This caused many listeners to slump into
their chairs utterly flabbergasted. The
“pegging” of wages in Australia has not
prevented the addition of any cost-of-
living increases, and, furthermore, wage-
pegging was sidetracked altogether in the
maritime industries by bringing in the
44-hour week, one effect of which has
been the running-up of huge overtime
costs. Since Labor took office the basic
wage has risen by 11s. a week, and living
costs are up in proportion. That is a
partial indication of the inflation that has
occurred in this country despite close
controls of prices and spending.
♦ * * *
If Spooner was not one of the spon-
sors of Fadden’s unfortunate scheme to
hand back tax money after the war, when
the people had already become accus-
tomed to paying existing taxes without
visible sign of general hardship, the idea
at least found a spiritual home in the
Spooner bosom. For a quarter of an
hour over the air the man who became
an acknowledged expert handling com-
pany liquidations, and who in public life
built scenic roads, extolled the virtues of
the Fadden plan and hinted at the
methods by which it might be financed
in the sweet by-and-bye. If the idea had
been 100 p.c. he could have said so
effectively in 60 seconds. The truth of
the matter is, of course, that taxation,
heavy as it is on some incomes, is little
enough when the cost of war is consid-
ered, and the fact that war is not being
financed in this country principally by
taxation—no one expects its cost to be
fully met out of revenue —means that
there is a big piling-up of savings and
other credits on behalf of the people to
the extent that there are not goods, etc.,
to be bought at the present time. If the
Fadden (Spooner?) scheme ever operates,
at the best it will be liquidated
in the post-war period by means
of offsetting taxation. If taxation were
the method used it is conceivable that the
higher incomes, which already have
borne more than their share of war-time
taxation, would pay more offsetting taxa-
tion than they received in “credits,” be-
cause the highest incomes would, under
the plan, receive only 5 p.c. of their money
back, the lowest 75 p.c. The lowest in-
comes are first to get relief in taxation
reductions, and it is possible that some of
the recipients of lower incomes would be
relieved of all taxation, at the same time
receiving a refund virtually out of the
pockets of those in the higher taxation
brackets.
* * * *
Britain’s Chancellor of the Exchequer
has spoken on post-war prospects. In
connection with interest rates he says: - -
The Government has stabilised interest rates
during this war on a level so low as would
have been thought impossible by anyone who
based himself on the experience of the last
war. It has developed a new technique in these
matters, and has revolutionised public opinion
on what are fair rates.
It is the Government’s intention to maintain
the policy of cheap money after the war for
the purpose of reconstruction and development
as well as for the benefit of the country gener-
ally.
In respect of post-war inflation
dangers;
One of the greatest dangers after the war will
be that of inflation. The purchasing-power of cur-
rent income will have behind it a potential re-
serve in large volume of war savings and post-
war credits, but for a certain time only a limited
quantity of goods will be available to be pur-
chased. Whatever control is maintained over
these goods, there will still be as great a need
as ever, side by side with taxation, for the
restriction of personal consumption by volun-
tary savings.
In this way the Government will be able to
face the many problems of post-war capital
reconstruction and development. The success
of our own stabilisation policy has been achieved
by a firm control of prices.
* * * »
Applications for the new issue of
49,004 ords. and 43,360 6 p.c. cum. prefs.
in Bond’s Industries, Ltd., will close on
August 13. The purpose of the issue is
to repay the outstanding balance of the
debenture debt, now amounting to
£87,300. The remainder of the £512,000
debenture issue has been converted into
ords. and prefs. on the basis of 20 ords.
and 80 prefs. (or, alternatively, 100 prefs.)
for each £lOO of debentures. Should the
issue be fully subscribed the paid capital
of the co. will stand at £750,000, consist-
ing of 350,000 ords. and 400,000 6 p.c.
prefs. The present issue is open to exist-
ing ord.-holders on the basis of one pref.
for each seven ords. held and one ord.
for each six ords. held. Books close
July 22.
# Jj:
A new publication of the Taxpayers’
Association of N. S. Wales, obtainable
from taxpayers’ associations in all States,
is the Income Tax Guide, compiled by
John M. White and W. Benjamin, price
2s. 6d. It is exceptionally well done,
dealing adequately with such matters as
how to prepare returns, how much
should be paid, how to adjust tax stamps
and how to avoid overpayments. There
is an extensive reference in the matter of
income that is taxable, and deductions
allowable and otherwise, with a chapter
on concessional allowances. Specimen
returns are included for most types of tax-
payers, and much information is given in
the readily assimilable form of question
and answer. There is a chapter for the
defence forces and the mercantile
marine. The uniform taxation legislation
now operating in the Commonwealth has
made possible a production of such wide
interest. Probably the handiest thing of
its kind ever turned out in this country.


THE SERVICE MAN
In the Pacific.
“Ek Dum”: The greater part of the
fighting in the Solomons-Salamaua arc
has been preparatory. This was empha-
sised by a raid on the Salamaua area on
July 26 in which all New Guinea records
were broken for weight of bombs
dropped. In a subsequent air battle 11
“Os” were destroyed and five probably
destroyed against the loss of one Kitty-
hawk.
Early last week the fighters in the
New Guinea area widened their ambit
and pushed their operations down New
Britain to within 100 miles of Rabaul.
The land fighting in New Georgia
followed the usual painful process of ad-
vances over rough ground torn up by air
strafing and artillery—ground which is
always wet, under foliage which is almost
always dripping, and in which the mos-
quitoes move in myriads above an army
of other pests. There were the same old
foxhole fighting, the same knifing in the
dark, the same tricks to lure or deceive
the enemy. Progress was steady but
slow.
At Munda the seaward bulge of the
Japanese lines had been wiped out by
the week-end, and the weary U.S. troops
were within sight of Munda airfield,
about \\ mile away. Between them and
their ultimate goal were still lines of
erupting Japanese mortars and machine-
gun nests, and to inch forward 100 or 200
yards in a day, as the Americans have
been doing, is something of a perform-
ance.
General Mac Arthur’s Report
On July 30, however, General Mac-
Arthur declared that the campaign was
going on well: —
In the Solomons, the garrison at Munda
has been invested and its supplies cut to
the very be js. The ceaseless pounding
and constant pressure against the enemy are
continuing.
In the New Guinea area the heavy air
attacks on Salamaua on Monday were
followed by artillery preparation and by
further heavy bombing and some sharp
ground fighting, in which two positions
only four miles from Salamaua were
taken.
The same kind of advance is going on
in the Salamaua area as at Munda, but
in the terribly rough and heavily-
timbered mountain valleys which form
the approaches to Salamaua the going is
more difficult.
On July 28 and 29 two destroyers and
a transport were sunk off Cape Gloucester
(New Britain), and two of 11 intercepting
fighters were shot down.
The position of the offensive, in
general, was summed up at the week-
end. The Allies are firmly in possession
of Rendova and of parts of New
Georgia, also of Woodlark Island as a
whole ; and airfields are being laid down
in all newly acquired districts, whose use
will probably revolutionise the general
situation both in the Solomons and the
seas south of New Britain.
Since the landing at Nassau Bay the
Allies in the Mubo area have pushed
eight miles onward at some points along
the coast and six miles along the Komia-
tum track, almost to the Francisco River.
Since June 30 the enemy has lost three
cruisers, 15 destroyers, a seaplane tender,
a tanker, a submarine chaser and six
cargo vessels, while five destroyers have
probably been sunk and six destroyers,
three cargo ships and two transports
damaged. In the same period 436
Japanese aircraft were wrecked, 35 prob-
ably wrecked and 30 damaged, for a loss
of 120 Allied machines.
In the Solomons area the American
Air Force reported bagging 388 enemy
aircraft for a loss of 20 per cent, of their
own aircraft engaged, and 1770 tons of
bombs were dropped over Munda, Buin
and other objectives.
The usual bombing of objectives from
Timor to Munda continued. In all,
there were about 40 raids outside attacks
in support or in advance of land opera-
tions. Soemba and Ceram both suffered
attacks.
The land assaults both in New Guinea
and in the New Georgia group are near
their climax.
In the Far North
American air forces heavily bombed
the wharf areas of Taikoo and Kowloon
in the mainland section of Hong Kong
on Wednesday and Thursday. General
Chennault declared that during the week
61 enemy aircraft were destroyed and
47 probably destroyed, besides seven
damaged; the Americans lost five air-
craft, but four pilots baled out. The
general added that during July Ameri-
cans sank 34,000 tons of shipping in
Chinese waters and damaged four ships
totalling 25,000 tons.
Vichy on Sunday announced that an
American landing had taken place on
Kiska in the Aleutians, but there was no
confirmation from Washington.
Italy's Travail.
“Ek Bum”: At the week-end all the
world stood on tiptoe waiting to see
what Italy’s new Government would do.
Because all the world had not been taken
at once into the confidence of the Govern-
ments concerned it was assumed that the
unhappy Government was doing nothing.
There were signs that this was not true,
or at least that the Allies very wisely were
giving Marshal Badoglio time to take a
grip of the situation. The Sicilian cam-
paign, immediately after Mussolini’s
resignation, died down to a minimum of
activity. The air offensive against Italy
was called off. The Allied Governments
obviously do not share the enthusiasm of
some people for revolutionaries. They
wish to deal, when they do deal, with a
Government which can speak for the
Italian people and which is not likely to
have its agreements used as pipelighters
by rabble usurpers.
Aspiring rabble usurpers there appear
to be plenty in the industrial north,
especially in Milan. Milan has always
been a favorite stamping-ground for the
breed. The Swiss border is only 30 miles
away at the nearest point—a dispensa-
tion of nature which has assured that
any really spry agitator could be on
neutral soil long before the authorities,
whoever they might be, could grab him.
One of a long line of agitators who have
taken the track to Switzerland was Mus-
solini himself before he turned Fascist.
It seemed fairly certain from the
moment Mussolini resigned that Italy
must ask for peace or have peace forced
upon her in very short order, but at the
same time must solve some knotty prob-
lems which stood in the way of even the
most easily obtainable kind of peace—
unconditional surrender.
The biggest obstacle was the presence
in the stricken country of large forces of
Germans. Companionship in destruction
must long ago have convinced the Italian
Government that the German Army,
if displeased, would not hesitate to
withdraw its forces from Italy step by
step, leaving behind nothing but scorched
earth and razed cities, including perhaps
even Florence and Rome. It must
have known, too, that the moment Allied
forces threatened Italy Germany would
be obliged to spread out a frontal de-
fensive apron across the industrial pro-
vinces covering the Brenner Pass and
the French approaches. And if Italy sur-
rendered these provinces would undoubt-
edly be brutally annexed and their
machinery and workmen carried off to
the Reich to join all the other stolen
machine plants and the 12,000,000 foreign
workers. Of these Berlin Radio boasted
on the night of August 1 that they were
laboring “happily” in Germany!
Allied Problems
The Allies, too, have their problems.
They have to consider the Vatican and
its views, which are becoming more and
more hostile to the German regime as
each new outrage on religion in occupied
countries is reported—clumsy acts like
the melting down of all of Belgium’s con-
secrated church bells to make munitions.
They have also to consider certain
assets which might fall into their hands it
the surrender can be carried through in
the most advantageous way. The Italian
fleet, with five new 35,000-tonners, four
older battleships, some squadrons of very
fast cruisers and destroyers, submarines
and t.b.ds., with fine naval harbors and
at least three shipbuilding yards capable
of constructing first-class battleships,
and three others capable of any kind of
naval repairs, would be a prize almost
beyond valuation, especially for the war
against Japan.
Towards the end of the week there was
a report of a plot by the Germans to take
the Italian fleet to France.
To Germany, Italy is of no value, in
the present condition of Allied naval and
air superiority, except as a buffer. It is
not easy to defend against an enemy with
a monopoly of marine power. Between
Rimini on the east and the mouth of the
Arno in the west is only about 100 miles,
and it would not be beyond the bounds
of possibility for an Alexander and a
Montgomery, with the help of enormous
Allied naval, air and shipping resources,
to throw a barrier across the peninsula
at that point and cut off all enemy troops
from and in the south.
The Coal Question
Moreover, with all his responsibilities
in the cold Russian battle area to be
considered, the enemy must feel that the
removal of Italy from the war would
also mean the removal of a burden on
Axis man-power, fuel and rolling stock.
Italy, having no coal to speak of, drew
in times of peace 12,000,000 tons of coal
from the Ruhr and Silesia, and during
the war must have needed a great deal
more. No doubt Marshal Keitel knows
better uses for what coal the R.A.F. has
left him than giving it to the Italians to
be fired by the R.A.F. and U.S.A.F.,
whose bonfires in the last few months
have made the blackout of western Italy
a grim joke. Germany needs rolling
stock, haulage horsepower and trained
railwaymen in ever-increasing numbers,
and the bashing of the Ruhr-Rhineland-
Westphalia area has not helped to in-
crease them.
The whole problem on the Italian side
boils down to how to get rid of the
Germans without being badly mauled by
both Allies and Hitler, and on the Ger-
man side of destroying Italy south of the
Po as a potential source of aid to the
Allies, and of securing Piedmont and
Lombardy and the Fiume-Trieste area
as defence zones.
Events Move Quickly
While events moved too slowly for
armchair strategists who like their revo-
lutions served hot and instanter, they
developed with remarkable swiftness.
At 10.45 p.m. on Sunday, July 25,
Rome announced Mussolini’s resignation
—it has since been reported that he is
interned in Italy and free in Switzerland
and a few other countries. Nobody has
suggested that he is in Japan—the one
country in which he would be tempor-
arily safe.
On the following day, the names of a
new Cabinet were announced. It com-
prised mostly “moderates” little known
outside Italy. Baron Guariglia, Ambas-
sador to Turkey, was brought home from
Ankara to become Foreign Minister.
Only one Fascist or ex-Fascist re-
mained General Carlo Favagrosso,
Minister of War Production. His ap-
pointment seemed curious in view of the
fact that the industrial north was re-
ported to be full of street barricades and
of strikes and struggles between military
and workers on the one side and Fascists
on the other.
Mr. Churchill Speaks
To encourage the country’s new rulers,
Mr. Churchill spoke on July 27, the day
on which the new Cabinet met for the
first time. He said that if the Italian
people chose to let the Germans have
their way, no choice would be left to the
Allies. From the north, south, the sea
and in amphibious descents, Italy would
be attacked “with the utmost rigor of
war”;
A decision by Italy to continue under the
German yoke would not seriously affect the
general course of the war, still less its ulti-
mate results. The only consequence will be
that, in the next few months, Italy will be
seared, scarred and blackened from one end
to the other.
But he did not doubt that the “main
wish of the Italian people is to be rid of
their German taskmasters.”
The P.M. summed up that “we have
so far not received any approaches from
the new Italian Government” and that
We should allow the Italians to stew
in their own juice for a bit and hot up the
fire to the utmost to accelerate the process
until we obtain from their Government, or
whoever possesses the necessary authority,
all the indispensable requirements we de-
mand for carrying on war against our prime
capital foe, which is not Italy but Ger-
many It is in the interests of Italy that
Italy’s unconditional surrender should be
brought about wholesale and not piecemeal.
Whether this can be accomplished, I cannot
tell.
That day reports from various parts
of Europe mentioned rioting and ominous
meetings of the Communist and other
curious parties in the Italian north. But
Rome Radio declared that life was nor-
mal, all shops and markets open, the
public service functioning smoothly and
the only deviations from the calm tenor
of Italian life “enthusiastic demonstra-
tions in favor of the new regime.”
The following 24 hours saw many
comings and goings—Baron Guariglia
hastening in from Ankara to take up his
new post; diplomatic couriers from
Rome and the Vatican landing together
in Lisbon ; more disturbances reported
in Milan.
On the day Guariglia arrived in Italy
and the new Cabinet held its first meet-
ing, it was announced that the Germans
were busily occupying the Istrian
approaches, and a Swiss report declared
that they were already occupying the
naval ports of Trieste, Fiume and Pola.
This, however, was denied.
That day Mr. Churchill’s “hotting-up
process” began with a broadcast by
General Eisenhower which was concilia-
tory but determined in tone. It began by
commending the Italian people and the
House of Savoy for ridding Italy of Mus-
solini, and continued:
The Italians themselves removed the
greatest obstacle which divided the Italian
people from the United Nations. The only
remaining obstacle on the road to peace is
the German aggressor on Italian soil. You
want peace. You can have peace immedi-
ately, and peace under honorable conditions
which our Governments already have
offered you. We are coming to you as
liberators. Your part is to cease immedi-
ately any assistance to the German military
forces in your country. If you do this
we will rid you of the Germans and de-
liver you from the horrors of war....As
you have seen in Sicily, our occupation will
be mild and benignant....
The general declared that, provided all
Allied prisoners in Italian hands were re-
stored, all Italian prisoners would be re-
turned to their homes and “the ancient
traditions and liberties of your country
will be restored.”
No public move by the Italians fol-
lowed this declaration.
Behind the scenes, however, something
of importance was obviously moving, for
the members of the British Cabinet were
summoned from their beds after midnight
to meet at 1.30 on the morning of
July 30.
Drifting to Revolution
At the week-end the news was not re-
assuring. The northern disturbances
appeared to have spread rapidly to the
south—Rome and Naples included. It
was said—though on “authority” far
distant from the scenes of the supposed
troubles—that they were approaching the
dimensions of a revolution, with troops
siding with the agitators. Allied G.H.Q.
in the Middle East reported “irrefutable
evidence” of a plan to disarm Italian
troops in Crete.
The political atmosphere became
charged with a new element when the
Russian official press suddenly launched
a campaign of criticism of the Badog-
lio Government. It suggested that Mos-
cow knew a great deal more of what was
going on in Northern Italy than had been
suspected.
Exactly a week after the fall of the
Italian regime, with no actual peace over-
tures made by the Badoglio Govern-
ment, an Allied broadcast told the
wretched Italians that their respite was
over. Throughout the week there had
been fighting only in the German zone in
Sicily, where the Eighth Army consoli-
dated its bridgeheads across the Daino
before Catania in fierce fighting, and the
Canadians and Americans pushed a little
further forward in the north centre. Only
a triangular piece of Sicily about 50 miles
long was still held by the Axis.
With the warning from Algiers that the
lull was over, attacks began again
with large-scale assaults on the rail and
fuel facilities of Reggio di Calabria,
across Messina Straits, within fighter
range of Allied Sicilian aerodromes, on
the Practiva di Mare aerodrome, in
Rome’s environs, and on the naval de-
fence aerodrome of Grottaglie near
Taranto, while naval units bombarded
mainland positions in the toe of Italy.
With 25 heavy-bomber aerodromes in
Sicily now under Allied control and re-
paired, it was a black lookout for the
miserable Italian people, with one enemy
on their doorstep, another more savage
one inside the house and the threat of
Red revolution raging up and down the
land.
Fierce Struggles Ahead
There is a tendency in some quarters
to regard the European war as over, and
to take count of every silly rumor of
dissension within Germany. Some of
these tales are deliberately inspired by
the Germans themselves.
Mr. Churchill does not share the out-
look of the optimists. He warned
Britons in his speech not to blind them-
selves to the immensity of the task before
them, and the privations and tribulations
still to be overcome; for the German
armies, though mauled by three Russian
campaigns, were still intact and unbroken
and, apart from whatever the satellites
might furnish, Hitler commanded 300
divisions, two-thirds mobile. And Sicily


Personal and Missing Friends.
WOULD the person who drove an injured lady
from George Street, near Wynyard station, at
10.45 a.m. on Wednesday, the 17th March, 1943,
to the Wahroonga Sanitarium please communi-
cate with the undersigned.—TlETYENS, Mc-
LACHLAN & CO., Solicitors, 14 Martin Place,
Sydney. Telephone, BW 1358.
Divorce Notice.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES— In Divorce.
TO CLIVE TURNER late of 38 Wallis Parade
North Bondi—TAKE NOTICE that ALAN
EUGENE HURLEY has filed a Petition for
Divorce No. 933 of 1943 against his wife
GLADYS VERONICA HURLEY on the
grounds of her adultery with you If you
wish to defend you may enter an appearance
at the Divorce Office Supreme Court King Street
Sydney by the First day of October 1943 and
obtain a copy of the petition without charge
from W. R THOMSON Solicitor 14 Martin
Place Sydney. — (1.5.) C. K. BODY, Registiai.
CD
am
had taught that in positions suited for de-
fence these divisions could offer stubborn
resistance.
"Reliable News" About Orel.
“Ek Dum”: In the reporting of the
Russian offensive against Orel, mystery
was piled on mystery last week. The
Russian advance continued and continued
and continued ; but Orel was not reached.
Maps published in Australia’s staidest
journals showed that, though reporters
hundreds of miles from the front
lines had the Red Army hurtling on at
the rate of from three to 15 miles a day
for a fortnight, some of its forces at the
end of that period were further away
from the prize than they supposedly were
on July 18.
They captured towns such as Mtensk.
In “S. M Herald’s” maps at the begin-
ning of the offensive Mtensk is shown 15
miles inside the Russian lines, a legiti-
mate plotting of its position according to
all the information coming out of Mos-
cow.
Twice the Russians were declared to be
inside the main Orel defences. Quite
early in the offensive it was reported that
the Orel-Bryansk railway had been cut.
There was no apology from correspon-
dents, editors or radio spouters when each
of these stories was proved to be untrue.
When the fight began Moscow and
Berlin both stated that it was raining
heavily. With short intervals, it continued
to rain heavily for the next fortnight—
sometimes “heavy” and sometimes “pour-
ing” rain was mentioned. This did not
raise any doubt in the minds of the re-
porters of Moscow when they learnt
from their lady telegraph runners or
somebody that, in a region crisscrossed
with rivers and creeks and alluvial flats
which turn to bog in the wet, gigantic
battles were being fought in which it was
not uncommon for the victors to advance
15 to 20 miles in a day.
Prisoners “Unheard Of”!
The story told in newspapers, with
radio endorsement, developed as follows
from July 25 onwards:
The Russian forces, having started off
within seven miles of Orel on the east
a fortnight before, and having made a
substantial daily advance, were now seven
miles east of Orel. They were 30 miles
from the city on the north, 10 miles
from it on the north-east, 15 miles from
it on the south-east and 20 miles from
it on the south. This was Reuter’s in-
formation.
Other correspondents confirmed. One
of those supplying one of Australia’s
most solemn journals reported:
The Germans are putting up a particu-
larly heavy resistance to the Russians who
t are attempting to cut the Orel-Bryansk rail-
way and main road, which are the lifelines
of the Orel pocket Many Germans are
surrendering, something unheard of a year
ago, and many of them are greatly bewil-
dered and depressed by the Kursk battle
losses and the failure of that offensive.
On which it may be remarked that a
year ago, when “prisoners were unheard
of,” Moscow was credited with having
vast masses of them. Also that the Ger-
man losses in December as reported from
Moscow were at least twice the number
of Germans engaged in the Kursk battle.
The casualties so far reported in the
Byelgorod-Orel battles are sparrow feed
beside the couple of millions announced
as having been inflicted on the enemy in
three winter months.
Next day the Reuter report was that
“the biggest Russian advance in the last
24 hours has been made by a column
moving up from the south along the
Kursk-Orel railway.” It will be noted
that Reuter’s version the day before was
that on the south the Russian forces stood
20 miles from the city.
Now it was announced: —•
The column advanced 11 miles and
reached Erovkina, the third-last station on
the line to Orel and only 16 miles south
of the city. A second column from the
south advanced five miles and reached
Khotetovo, 21 miles south of Orel.
And a third column, marching along
the Kursk-Orel highway, was within
about 19 miles of the city.
Next day again it appeared that the
Germans were withdrawing in large force
from the south of Orel “under cover of
a desperate rearguard action, systemati-
cally scorching the earth, and leaving
blazing villages and blown-up bridges in
their wake”:
Other sources emphasise that eight Rus-
sian armies, fighting in pouring rain, are
closing on Orel. The fiercest battles are
being fought north of the city.
Reuter’s man vouched for it that the rain
had turned the country into a swamp.
However, it was agreed by all on this
day that the Red Army had advanced
another four miles and taken 50 more
inhabited districts, and that in spite of
the rain, the flooded rivers and stiffening
German defence the Russians were
“gradually wiping out pockets of resist-
ance” —the main one of which was sup-
posed, of course, to contain 250,000
troops.
The only route of egress for the
“trapped” enemy was (vide the British
United Press) “a narrow dirt road from
Orel” and the Russian spearheads were
“expected to reach this road at a point
40 miles south-west of Orel.” It was
added: —
With the Russians consolidating their
strong bridgehead along the west bank of
the Oka River, which runs n.-e. of Orel,
and with large Russian forces pushing up
from the south, the Red Army is hourly
expected to begin the assault on Orel itself.
And a fortnight before the Red Army
had supposedly been inside Orel’s main
defence ring on the east!
From the verge of triumph in a few
hours, however, the glories of Orel began
to be submerged in those of Milan, where
street-fighting operations were going on
and somebody had heaved a Fascist
off a roof.
Suddenly the weather began to play a
greater part, and single-column headings
went up over what 24 hours before had
been represented as “another Stalingrad
in the offing for 250,000 Germans.”
“Izvestia” thus pictured the area where
the heaviest fighting had been going on:
The Russians north of Orel have been
battling not only with the enemy, but also
with mud and unfavorable terrain. The
worst rains for a long time have swollen
normally shallow rivers, which are over-
flowing their banks. When the Russians
crossed one river and captured two villages
on the south side they had to bring up guns,
shells and food by wading for hours
through mud and water.
On the same day there was a reference
to cavalry being flung in north of
Orel to beat off heavy German counter-
attacks.
A textbook on the use of cavalry in
the kind of battle in which anything up
to 150 dive-bombers and strafers and 100
to 150 tanks in single sectors have been
destroyed in a day should prove highly
instructive to the world’s tacticians.
Fall Not “Imminent”
The “Times” now came with stately
tread into the discussion of the battle —
with the rest it had been pretty sure a
few days previously that all-was-over-for-
the-Hun:
Earlier reports of the fighting round Orel
emphasised the points reached near Orel,
but omitted to describe the intervening
stretches, which the Germans have con-
tinued to hold strongly. An erroneous
impression that the fall of Orel was
imminent was thus given.
It was now admitted also that the single
“narrow dirt road” from Orel which was
supposed a couple of days before to be
the enemy’s only bolthole was actually
a corridor 40 miles wide, and that, instead
of using it for escape, he was bringing
up fresh men and guns.
At the same time he was declared to
be blowing up parts of the Orel-Bryansk
railway and to be getting out behind
fields of mines and booby-traps:
Thousands of these have to be cleared
up daily, thus causing delay in the advance.
Torrential rain also has rendered impass-
able large stretches of country.
Nevertheless, it was still reported that
the Russians were now within 10 miles
of their objective on three of the four
railways leading into the city, though
“Pravda” declared that a fierce battle was
going on for a key town 21 miles south-
west of the city,
Moscow’s communique on July 30 re-
ported advances of from three to six
miles, but added that south of Orel the
enemy was established behind a river
barrier and was putting up a stiff resist-
ance.
Berlin claimed that the Germans had
been engaged in an elastic defence of
Orel’s environ positions, consistent with
the inclement weather. It admitted fierce
fighting on several positions and the
surrender of Bolkhov, 35 miles north of
Orel. But at the week-end it had shown
none of its normal reactions to the im-
minence of major disaster, and the loss
of Orel would not be more than a minor
one.
Lessons
The impression that enemy resistance
gives at Orel and south of Leningrad—
where another Russian break-through
attempt has been launched —and on the
Kuban is that the Germans have de-
veloped a defensive power which it will
take immense force to break. It would
be foolish to deny that they have shown
for some time resilience and power to
take up shocks in retreat, and may be
capable of turning defence into offence.
Nothing has ever been gained by under-
rating this formidable enemy or by infus-
ing romance and politics into newspaper
and radio narratives of Russian opera-
tions.
Actually, the Russian front has ceased
to be the crucial front. The Russians alone
cannot be expected to do more than
maintain pressure on their long front, feel
for weak points and take advantage of
them. The only armies which are in a
position to bring about conditions which
might compel a swift German retreat
from Russia are the British-American
armies of the Mediterranean. The arrival
of a large British-American force in the
Balkans or on the east side of the Adriatic
would threaten the whole structure of
Germany’s Russian strategy.
Hamburg Immobilised.
“Ek Dum”: The return of suitable
bombing weather brought back nights
and days of horror to Germany, which
for a little while had been almost free
of heavy raiding.
The enormous and frightening attack
on Hamburg on July 24-25 was followed
by a series of visits by the terrifying
Mosquitoes, which ranged over all the
Low Countries and over Cologne and
other smouldering cities, disrupting re-
clamation operations, preventing fire
fighting and keeping wounds open.
Flying Fortresses meanwhile carried
out long-range attacks against Baltic
naval bases—Kiel, Warnemiinde and
Wustrow, destroying many enemy fighters
and losing 12 of their own machines.
There was no lull. The attacks had
grown to fortissimo by Monday, July 26.
Essen was blitzed, and another large cen-
tral section of the huge works left in
blazing heaps. And again and again the
attackers went back to Hamburg, which
was bombed five times in two days. About
2500 bombers flew from Britain over Ger-
many in that deadly 48 hours, and
dropped 5000 tons of bombs, of which
2300 tons had been delivered over Ham-
burg on Saturday night by 800 R.A.F.
machines, and 2000 tons in 50 minutes on
Sunday by 700 machines. The other
raids, apart from those on bases east of
Kiel, were Fortress expeditions to Ham-
burg, Wilhelmshafen and Wesermiinde.
In Sunday night’s raids 25 bombers
and a fighter were lost; on Monday in
daylight the losses were 23 bombers and
three fighters.
On Tuesday night the R.A.F. returned
to Hamburg with another load of 2300
tons of destruction, and there were wide-
spread strafing attacks on enemy objec-
tives. This was Hamburg’s 105th attack.
Hamburg had, on an average, collected
72 bombs every hour for more than three
days, and the R.A.F. had lost an average
of one machine for every 150 tons of
bombs dropped on the target.
Allied losses on the day of the last
raid, when numerous other targets were
attacked, including some in daylight—an
aircraft factory at Kassel and an aircraft
assembly plant near Magdeburg- were
targets —totalled only 23 heavy bombers
and a fighter.
By the week-end Hamburg had be-
come Germany’s most heavily-raided city,
both in an immediate and in a long-
distance sense —in less than three hours,
spread over six nights, it had been hit by
7000 tons of bombs, only 500 tons short
of the amount distributed by the Ger-
mans over London between July, 1940,
and May, 1941.
In daylight the Fortresses went east
again to Kiel and Warnemiinde. The
whole landscape from the Lowlands to
Rostock was full of gunfire, and the Allies
suffered fairly severe losses, though not
in proportion to the damage which
appears to have been done —48 bombers,
of which 28 were lost over Hamburg,
and three fighters, against 40 German
fighters shot down. The Americans alone
claimed 200 fighters shot down since
July 24.
R.A.F. losses continued remarkably
light in relation to damage. In seven
days to July 28 the force had dropped
7000 tons of bombs on Germany, losing
only 3 p.c. of bombers engaged each
night; while R.A.F. fighters in 2000
single-machine sorties had destroyed 33
enemy aircraft for a loss of 21.
Friday’s main R.A.F. target was Rem-
scheid, about 15 miles east of Diisseldorf,
the great machine-tool city of the Ruhr —
its population is about 100,000. This was
virgin ground, and the anti-aircraft de-
fence was reported weak. Twelve
bombers were lost.
Raids by light and medium craft and
the ever-present Fortresses were served
up in bewildering variety to the whole of
occupied territory along the Channel and
North Sea, east of the Somme, and the
air was full of battles.
The results of the week’s operations as
reported by a Danish Consul and Scandi-
navian seamen were horrible enough, but
they were of a kind likely to hasten the
end of the war if they become general.
The ruined city was strewn with corpses
—the Germans admitted 14,000 killed.
Electricity, water, even the air-raid sirens
were out of commission. The harbor was
a mangled mass of wreckage, Altona and
other suburbs were wiped out, most of
Hamburg’s 22 miles of quays a tangled
ruin. About a third of the population
has fled.
The enemy made several small raids on
Britain during the week, but few raiders
got through. Fighter defence is now
beyond anything dreamed of in 1940, and
a.-a. fire is of an intensity which rules
out the chance of all but hit-run attacks,
unless by very large bodies of machines,
whose commanders are prepared for
deadly losses.
in brief:
Reported that Hungary has put out peace
feelers through Ankara. If there is a gram ot
truth in the statement, it means the beginning
of the end of German power in the Balkans,
the Hungarians being in the war virtually under
compulsion.
* * *
A German communique of July 28 claimed
that U-boats had sunk 336,000 tons of Allied
shipping in July—“three times the amount m
June.” But Mr. Churchill remarked that “Ger-
many’s hopes of U-boat warfare turning the tide
are sinking as fast as the U-boats themselves.
* * * *
The U.S. Navy on July 27 announced a
Liberator raid on Wake Island, intercepted by
30 “O” fighters backed by heavy flak. Several
hits were scored on the runways of the aero-
drome and nine enemy fighters were destroyed.
sjc sje %
H.M. submarine Trusty (Lt.-Commander E. L.
Dalston) has come home for a holiday after
two years abroad. Once she travelled a record
distance of 10,000 miles in 54 days; once she
planted 22 4in. shells on the stern of a large
transport. Operating against the Japanese in
the Far East, she sank six ships. H.M.S. Boreas
a destroyer, is also home after 183,000 miles ol
voyaging between December, 1941, and the in-
vasion of Sicily. She spent 439 actual days
under way.
* * * *
H.M. sloops Wren and Starling sank two
U-boats within nine hours recently in the North
Atlantic.
* *
The Admiralty announces the loss of H.M.
submarine P. 615.
* * * *
Activity in Burma last week was confined
to air-raiding, with a little casual ground skir-
mishing. Burma is now alleged to have a native
“Government” and “Parliament,” and there has
been a “formal” declaration of war on Britain
and the U.S.A.
* * * *
On July 27 a 8.0. A. flying-boat from Lisbon
crashed off a lonely part of south-western Eire.
Ten of the 18 occupants were killed instantly,
and two died later.
* * * *
The C.-in-C. British Bomber Command has
issued a special order commending for gallantry
Flight-Sergeant M. B. Fettell, of Marrickvillc
(N.S.W.), captain of a Wellington which collided
with a Lancaster at 10,000 feet. With one of
two engines torn off and his own parachute lost,
Flt.-Sgt. Fettell calmly superintended the baling-
out of his crew and did not attempt a crash
landing until they all were safe. Then he made
a plucky attempt to get his machine to ground,
but crashed into some timber and was killed.


How to make Gillette Blades last longer ,.
Hold the Blade
at the ends...
m
7T.
m
.. rinse carefully... dry
on a smooth towel . . .
Never leave your blades in a steamy atmosphere. The
microscopic beginnings of rust on that fine edge will
rob you of many a good shave. You can double the
life of every Gillette Blade by exercising care.
TAKE CARE OF YOUR
GILLETTE
BLADES
Turn your pounds into planes with War Loan Bonds
HOTEL METROPOLE
Bent, Phillip and Young Streets, Sydney.
I k
'vssz
r
•fin
ilill
mmm m mm
iitif
ill
in#
Modern high-ctess accommodation
at a moderate tariff. Hot and cold
water and telephone in all rooms.
Rooms with private Bathrooms
available. Meals at moderate rates —
unexcelled cuisine—Dining Rooms,
Grill Room, Banquet Room and
Wintergarden, together with a first-
class orchestra.
ROOMS-ONLY RATES.
Single Rooms from 7/- per night
Double Rooms from 13/- per night
Telegrams, Cables and Wireless:
“METROPOLE,” Sydney.
Telephones: 8W2061 (9 lines)
86363 (4 lines)
SPORTING NOTIONS
(Conducted by "PILOT")
Victoria Park had a successful meeting
at Randwick on Saturday. The weather
was fine, the attendance large, betting
spirited and most of the races interest-
ing. The tote turnover was £99,623 15s.
w ’ ’ ' ' ’ ,
Martheus and All Love, two that
would have paced it with Triad (Hughes)
in the early part of the Quality Handicap,
were put out of action at the starting
post. All Love was so severely kicked
that she had to be withdrawn, and Mar-
theus was hopelessly left. First away,
Triad led throughout from Arahura, and
though three furlongs from home Winni-
peg, in third place, appeared to be going
comfortably, he never looked like more
than a minor-place getter in the straight,
It was Triad’s fourth win in Sydney this
season, and at her yearling price of
375gns. she has been a real bargain.
Warbird (McMenamin) made all the
running in the Victoria Park Handicap,
but though Beau Timide was a long way
back at the half-mile he got his head in
front a furlong from home. At that stage
a win for the latter seemed certain, but
the long run he had made told against
him, and Warbird upset calculations by
fighting on and defeating him a half-
neck. Salivant, who was fairly close to
Warbird at the top of the straight, failed
to see it out, and was beaten for third by
Eureka; while the trip was too far for
Felt Yet
.‘.. . . .
Outsiders in Cremorne (Mulley), Gun-
man and Kingsford were the Nursery
Handicap place-getters. Caladin and Kur-
ranulla led into the straight from Sir
Francis and Air Lord, but that lot
stopped badly at the end, and Cre-
morne finished strongly to beat Gunman,
both doing their best work over the last
furlong. Sidelight (by Harinero), The
Swell and Son of a Gun (by Young Idea)
were nearest the place-getters. Bred at
Kia-Ora, Cremorne is by Constant Son
from Padding Queen, by Rossendale from
Padding. He was a 200gns. yearling.
• * • • •
Flight (McMenamin), despite her 9.7,
completely outclassed the other fillies in
the Juvenile Handicap. Taking charge
immediately after barrier-rise, she was
not after troubled, scoring her fifth win
of the season. Scene and Cosmetic ran
fairly, and Annie Laurie indifferently,
while Decanter, as in her earlier races,
showed pace for a few furlongs. My
Anne and Bright Idea were prominent at
the end. Flight’s next run will be in the
Hobartville Stakes on August 21, and,
unless it should be Mayfowl, it does not
appear as if any of the colts will beat her.
Costing 60gns. as a yearling Flight has
earned £3889.
In the Encourage Handicap Puchong
(Knox) got a run through in the last 100
yards, and won narrowly from Bright
Spot and Kookaburra, who led from the
first furlong. Although Valiant Garde
missed a place, his effort was promising,
while Great Scot, though fifth, was again
disappointing. Of those further back
Prince Mark and chatamore did best,
......
Kiaree’s (J. Thompson) return to form
was not unexpected, and he won the
Three-year-old Handicap in good style,
after Tahmoor and Fervent, on close
terras, turned for home ahead of Royal
Result. Tahmoor hung on gamely, but
met a better stayer. Kiaree’s time for
the seven furlongs was only a quarter-
second slower than that of Triad in the
Quality Handicap,
„ ' ’ ' * ~ '
When Pinero got to the front from
Rylstone halfway down the straight m the
Welter Handicap his backers were justi-
ned m thinking he was going to end an
unlucky season with a win. However,
Tuokool (Hughes) fairly ran over.him at
th .e end and is a probable winner at
middle distances. Hard-worked Jymjon
was a close third, with Rylstone, Kimbell
Hanpur nearest him. Gauntlet had
ever Y chance, ut f a< 3ed out after being
sec°fffi to Rylstone at the turn. Chatham’s
Choice did not run as well as the previous
wee k, and St. Elmo get the mile.
n , , ,
West Haran, an aged Queensland-bred
gelding, opened his winning account by
taking the £lOOO A. V. Hiskens Steeple-
chase at Moonee Valley on Saturday. The
race was full of thrills, seven of the 17
runners either falling or losing their
riders. The winner was the unlucky
horse of the G.N. Steeple, losing his
rider when in front at the second-last
fence. On Saturday he fenced in dash-
mg style, and when he raced to the front
a »d opened up a gap half a mile from
home he had the race in his keeping.
Although Harley finished strongly, West
Haran won by five lengths. West Haran
is raced by the executors of the estate of
the late Dr. A. E. Syme.
......
Backed from 33 to 1 to 10 to 1 Fair-
way Freddy registered his first success in
Victoria when he won the Glen Orla
Handicap from New Warrior and Saint
Warden. Fairway Freddy is owned by
W, J. Winterbottom, chairman of
the Western Australian Turf Club,
’ ‘ , ’
. H. Olsen ended the season with a bnl-
bant burst of form, and when he won the
Dernmut Handicap on the hot favorite
Naval Revue it was this third winner tor
His r ber winners were Tara-
kah anc * p 0 Hazard. Naval Revue has
:dwa y s shown B ? od i°™ at * he
He was racing for the first time in the
ownership of his trainer, M. Crossey.
Quezon came with a fast late run to
finish second and showed his best form
since his two-year-old days.
For a colt that is expected to play a
prominent part in the Cups Illyrian did
not cover himself with glory in the Bruns-
wick Maiden Plate of one mile. He fared
best at the start, but after leading for
a couple of furlongs he dropped back.
He was forced out wide rounding the
turn, and made up ground to run fifth.
Gold Hazard won at 5 to 4.
Although out of the saddle for six
months of the season because of injuries
and terms of suspension, Harold Badger,
for the fifth year in succession, topped
the winning jockeys’ list. His tally was
24j wins, and next were J. Purtell and
R. Heather with 17 and V. Hartney with
16j. Best of the jumping riders was L.
Meenan, who finished with the good
record of nine wins, five seconds and four
thirds from 32 mounts. H. McCloud,
who won the Melbourne Cup on Colonus,
led the apprentices with 12 wins. Most
successful stakes winners among the
owners were Messrs, T. G. Jones and R.
Cobden. The only horse they race, Tran-
quil Star, netted them £B7OO. Mrs. D.
Belsom, owner of the Victoria Derby
winner Great Britain, was next with
£6OOO. F. W. Hoysted, with 22, trained,
most winners, but L. Robertson (12) won
most in stakes, £16,602.
* * * 'j.
In the 1941-42 season there was 23
days’ racing at Randwick, and the
totalisator turnover was £966,929. The
opening day was August 4, and the con-
cluding one June 13. Racing for the
1942-43 season, which ended last week,
gave Randwick a greatly increased turn-
over. The first meeting took place on
August 29 of last year, and the final one
on July 31—Saturday last. Twenty days
were raced in that period, and £1,620,831
went through the machines, the largest
amount for one day being £119,991 10s.
on Sydney Cup day. I have given the
comparative figures for the two racing
seasons, but the A.J.C. financial year
ends on June 30, and when the balance-
sheet for the recent year is issued it will
not take in last month’s two meetings. In
1941-42 there were no meetings at Rand-
wick in July, and the balance-sheet con-
sequently covered the full number of days
for the racing season at that track, as
well as the club’s financial year.
* « * ♦
W. Cook, E. McMenamin, and E.
Bartle had a great tussle for the recent
season’s Sydney jockeys’ premiership.
Cook finished on top, with 27 wins to
the 26j of McMenamin and the 25 of
Bartle, who was off the scene for two
months. Cook led in four other seasons.
In ordinary circumstances D. Munro and
J. Thompson would have been danger-
ous rivals, but the former has not been
riding since May 13, and the latter was
out of action for two months. They were
fourth and fifth respectively with 21 and
20£ wins. Knox did well with 19 wins.
sfc # *
The Sydney Turf Club is still some
distance off functioning. Delay is un-
avoidable, and proprietary and deben-
ture clubs will meet with no interference
until next year. Recently their returns
have beep so satisfactory that they would
not be displeased if, at earliest, the
S. did not take over until after the
close of the war.
)(t =i: % :K
Prior to last week’s win Flight could
have been sold at a very high price to a
patron of F. Dalton’s stable, but B. H.
Crowley had no wish to part with her.
McMenamin has declined an offer to ride
Flight in all her big engagements of the
spring, preferring Mayfowl. He is evi-
dently of opinion that the latter is likely
to prove the better stayer, and is anxious
to have an A.J.C. Derby in his winning
record, Munro has won that race four
times and dead-heated for first on another
occasion. Bartle and Knox have each
had two wins, and Cook one.
Forty-two two-year-old races were run
in Sydney during the recent season, and,
thanks to his daughter Flight, an Aus-
tralian-bred stallion. Royal Step, led with
six wins. Other Australian stallions with
winners were Spearfelt, Flail Mark, Hua
and Nuffield, and all sires successfully
represented are as under:
Royal Step: Flight (five wins), Royal Peer.
Beau Pere (imp.): Mayfowl (two), Belle
Pomme, Sincerity.
The Buzzard (imp.): Falcon Knight (two),
St. Quentin, Bronze Orchid.
Hall Mark; Haddon Hall (three), Stead-
fast.
Marconigram (imp.): MacArthur, Urgent
Rate, Code.
Felcrag (imp.): Moorland (three), Cragha.
Brueghel (imp.): Ajixa, The Beacon, Miss
Brueghel.
Simeon’s Fort (imp.): Clarion Call (two).
Manitoba (imp.): War Eagle.
Melfort (imp.): West Point.
Genetout (imp.); Tribal.
Midstream (imp.): Yarras.
Spearfelt; Tennessee.
Bullhead (imp.): Anne Laurie.
Excitement (imp.): Caspian.
Harinero (imp.): Enthuse.
Hua: Kurranulla.
Nuffield: Joygiver.
Emborough (imp.): Estborough.
Constant Son (imp.); Cremorne.
* * * *
Mr. Hubert S. Docker, breeder of the
V.R.C. Grand National Steeplechase
winner, writes as follows from Bontha-
rambo, Wangaratta (Vic.): “You are
a bit astray in the history of Victory
March. He was bred by me, and was
leased. The lease fell due when the war
was at its blackest stage, Des McCormick
(who is a native of Wangaratta) advised
me not to sell, but the way the war situa-
tion was I could not see my way to go
on racing the horse, so he was sold for
£5O. I am the owner of Highland March,
who is leased to Caddigan Bros.”
Miscellaneous.
The 45,000 who attended the five Mel-
bourne games on Saturday divided their
patronage fairly evenly. At Hawthorn
the locals threw away a chance to down
Essendon by bad shooting in the first
quarter, during which they dominated the
play, and the ’Dons held the lead—9.l2
to 7.13. Fitzroy and Richmond, strug-
gling for second place, played a ding-dong
game for Fitzroy to win by 10.10 to 7.17.
Carlton licked Collingwood, 28.10-11.8,
Melbourne gave Footscray a shock by
23.16 to 11.8, and “Sowth” belted
“North,” 14.11-6.6. It’s Essendon, then
Fitzroy, Richmond and Hawthorn to-
gether, then Carlton and Melbourne.
University, the only Rugby Union side
that has beaten Manly this year, suffered
defeat, 16-13, on Saturday, and North,
last on the list, inflicted it. North scored
only one try ; three penalty goals and one
of those snappy last-minute field goals in
which skipper Gibbons specialises added
the extra 13 points. Manly, East and
Randwick are still the leaders, with Uni-
versity and West level in fourth position.
Other games:
Manly 31, Gordon 11; East 18, Parramatta
3 ; Randwick 22, St. George 6; West 8, Drum-
moyne 3.
* * * *
Hockey Bennell and Jimmy Dundee
have had another engagement at Leich-
hardt, their tenth. In early rounds Dun-
dee’s left hooks to the head appeared to
send Bennell groggy. Horace (“Hockey’s’"
real Christian name) came back to win
about nine of the 12 rounds and get
referee Pearson’s decision —the eighth.
In Sydney again on business connected
with the war, Jim Grey, Ambrose
Palmer’s protege, was adjudged to have
outpointed Alf Gallagher at the Stadium.
His superiority in the eleventh and
twelfth rounds must have impressed
the referee ; Gallagher’s better boxing in
other rounds should have earned that
bruiser an even break. In the fifth
Gallagher’s inside right counter crashed
on Grey’s chin, and he might have won
on a knockout had he followed up this
advantage instead of clinching.


Women's Letters
From Melbourne
The return of daffodils to the street
barrows, even at a shilling a head, gave
a really solid assurance of spring to the
city last week. Of course, jonquils have
been known to turn up in midwinter
with a little pressure, but there is a feel-
ing that daffodils decidedly do know what
they’re about and herald a return of the
sun. For brides white roses were the
order of the week. There were dozens
of the perfectly-curled classic ones of the
sort that highborn ladies in the nursery
ballads find on their pillows when they
are about to die.
People who popped in to the corner
grocery and saw cases and cases of noble
eggs positively cluttering up the shop
almost had to be carried out. Inquiries
revealed that these objects were not
painted or made of chinaware, or ear-
marked for the consumption of infants
and invalids only. In short, anyone could
buy a round dozen just as they did four
years ago. Omelets are being made with
reverent care and a sneaking feeling of
guilt which doesn’t wear off until the
operation has been repeated several times.
Backing up the splendid work done by
the parent organisation, the Central
Women’s Auxiliary of the R.S.L. held its
eighth conference in the Town Hall last
week. Delegates came from auxiliaries
in towns all over Victoria and put before
the meeting the points their respective
auxiliaries felt particularly strongly about.
Complaints about the position of service
men’s widows who came just outside the
scope of war pensions were given a sym-
pathetic hearing, and every problem that
besets the service man and his family was
aired. As mothers and wives of service
men delegates knew just where shoes
pinched.
The stork is arriving so frequently in
this city just now that the new Margaret
Coles maternity wing of the Alfred Hos-
pital had 300 advance bookings regis-
tered before the official opening. One of
the mothers was in the wing before the
ribbon-cutting affair took place. The
wing bears the name of the wife of the
donor, G. J. Coles, and has accommoda-
tion for 52 patients and the most up-to-
date equipment.
A reminder of the peace-time activities
of Red Cross is the plan for installing an
advising dietitian in a hut in the grounds
of the Melbourne Hospital, financed by
Red Cross funds. The dietitian will ad-
vise relatives of patients on general facts
about food and the ins and outs of
invalid cooking and similar problems of
households where nursing is in progress.
The idea is that not only patients’ rela-
tives but any person needing advice will
be able to benefit by this expert service.
The Red Cross Junior competition is
catching on like a bushfire. At first the
idea looked like being just another
moderately successful fund-raising effort,
but now almost everyone has been seized
with an urge to have a finger in the pie
and a baby in the fun. The A.W.A.S.
looked for its baby among a number
of infants all with army fathers, and
finally chose a very weeny dark-haired
one. Lots of organisations have found
the competition a nice way of letting
hard-worked secretaries and presidents
know how much they’re appreciated by
putting up the official’s baby for nomina-
tion, which the proud father finds very
stimulating.
Since the outbreak of war Government
House has come into a new eminence,
not as the paradise of the socially hope-
ful but as the spot where a rush order
for military or civilian welfare needs can
be executed with the greatest expedition.
The huge ballroom has been a workshop
full of sewing-machines and bales of
wool and cloth and the like for so long
that even the most stubborn ghosts of its
dancing past must have fled long ere this.
At the annual meeting of this No. 1
branch of the Red Cross it was noted that
the latest big job that had arrived with
an “urgent” label on it was an order foi
just on 2000 pairs of pyjamas for sick
service women.
Red Cross authorities are prepared for
a lot of work in the future when Aus-
tralian prisoners of war in Italian camps
begin to come home. Red Cross parcels
have, of course, been constantly sent to
these camps, but if and when the invad-
ing armies are able to free large numbers
of our prisoners a great deal of work in
connection with putting men in touch
with their families, rehabilitation jobs
and the like will come to the fore.
Though most other services are hard
to come by, the business of making
“hair-do” appointments becomes easier
as more and more lasses go into the
services or war jobs. Shorter hair and
more “manageable” hair styles are one
reason for a falling off in the numbers
that used to make the hairdresser s iite
one long rush. Another thing is that very
few women have time to make frequent
appointments, and the average war-
worker tends to prefer a night by the
fire to going out, at least between service
“leaves.” Most hairdressers are making
“after-hours” appointments now in order
to fit in with the altered plan of living
of most of their clients.
With the pre-war show “The Insect
Play” still cropping up in playgoers’ con-
versation as one of the best dramatic
efforts this town has seen, Queen’s Col-
lege, which introduced that novelty to
Melbourne, is getting out the buskins
again. The play is to be “Winterset,
which hasn’t been played here before,
though it has been seen on the screen.
Keith MacCartney, as usual, will be put-
ting his practised hand to the production
side. The two leading characters,
Marianne and Mio, will be played by
Meg Smith and Bill Ryall, students new
to the footlights. The show will be
staged at the Union Theatre for three
nights, August 19, 20 and 21.
The musical Sutton-Crow family had
reason for jubilation at the week-end.
Son, Sergeant Raymond Sutton-Crow,
A 1.F., made the wedding ceremony with
bride Edith Hughes his first thought after
discharge from hospital after many weeks
of illness. The bride is daughter of Mrs.
G. W. W. B. Hughes, of Auburn, and the
late Mr. Hughes, and is a physio-
therapist at Prince Henry’s Hospital.
Bridesmaid was Jean Sutton-Crow, who
followed in her father’s musical footsteps
(he is at present acting-director of the
Uni. Con.) before taking up a war job.
Wedding was a formal frock affair, with
bride in white and bridesmaid in blue,
with an unusual note in garlands of
Christmas roses.
Short leave for the soldier sent Alison
Hamer and Lieut. Finlay Patrick, A.1.F.,
on a hunt for an engagement ring (not
the easiest thing to find these days) and
friends were called up by ’phone to drop
in to say “good health” over a little some-
thing to say it with. Alison sailed
through an hon. arts course with a stag-
gering array of “firsts,” and Lieut. Pat-
ncic aid a law course, also at Meib. Uni.,
before joining the A.I.F. and seeing ser-
vice in the Middle East. Alison is the
daughter of Mr. and Mrs. H. R. Hamer,
of Toorak, and her fiance is the son of
Dr. and Mrs. J. F. Patrick, of Warrnam-
bool. Broothorn made the portrait of
Alison.
A season ticket for the Uni. Con. s
Concerto Festival has something of the
interest of a ticket for a Test match. A
different set of young hopefuls from the
Con. appeared at each concert during the
week, and at the end of this series of
“heats” the best talent was collected for
a final concert on August 13, when yet
another sifting will take place and a
favored few be chosen to play with the:
Symphony Orchestra in September. Red
Cross and Comforts Fund will benefit by
all this competitive spirit.
The feelings between the “elect” and
the to-be-damned in old Scotland couldn’t
be more acute than that between those
who “just adored” Noel Coward’s “In
Which We Serve” and those who “walked
out at interval, my dear.” The film
seems to evoke rather powerful feelings,
as people who liked it feel that those who
didn’t regard them as unsophisticated
young innocents easily caught by obvious
play on the emotions. Then there s the
squad who feel that the British Navy
has been given its due in the propaganda
line for once, and the equally vociferous
lot who feel that the Silent Service doesn’t
need that sort of thing.
Replacing father’s office boy, secretary or
right-hand man, depending on daughter s
capability, is becoming as popular among
Melbourne girls as war jobs with Gov-
ernment pay. Latest recruit to the ranks
is Colina Bruce, daughter of city busi-
nessman G. W. Bruce.
from Sydney
Success in a big way waited on the
Lyceum Club’s afternoon party for the
Merchant Navy. Admiral Muirhead
Gould and his wife were the guests
of honor, and the club’s president, Mrs.
John Metcalfe, was the hostess. The
Admiral spoke of the sea and the sailor,
and indeed everybody’s heart warms to the
intrepid lads who, knowing the danger
of lurking U-boat and secretive mine,
continue to sign-on to sail through tropic
and polar seas so that essential food
supplies and war material may be brought
to where the need is greatest.
Inside the doorway to the big reception
room stood a deep bowl, into which
members and friends dropped their do-
nations in passing. In spite of the much-
talked-of shortage of blooms, Miss Teague,
the Lyceum’s “Flower Lady,” had decked
the rooms with warm foliage and jonquils
and other garden glories. Stanley Clark-
son was the afternoon’s singer, and
Lilian Frost played the accompaniments.
There was a great tea-drinking—it might
be suspected with reason that some of
the committee members had made a raid
on the home tea-caddy. Then when the
guests had departed the bowl was up-
turned and the £s. d. counted. Great
glee at the total, which was no less than
£5O. . .
The John Butters lady, president of the
Y.W.C.A., is having a busy time. The
£5OOO appeal for the association’s day-
to-day needs has been launched, and the
opening day of the Caledonian Market,
the first public venture in this respect,
brought in £5l. The market, not an out-
door one, as is its famed London name-
sake, deals in second-hand clothes and
pieces of china. Eagerly-sought goods
such as goloshes ana men’s suiis are
finding exultant buyers. Indeed there was
a queue of 300 waiting for the doors to
open. As long as its friends can
supply the stock, the small shop in Liver-
pool-street will continue to do business.
Its trading hours are from 1J till 4
o’clock.
Two more pre-Christmas money-raisers
in the same cause will be a Market Day
on September 24, when the Y.W. from
dormer to cellar will be roped into the
fray. Mrs. C. P. Johnson is chairwoman
of this committee and Lady Wakehurst
is booked to do the opening at half-past
eleven. The Red, White and Blue dance
at the Australia will follow some time in
October. Mrs. Hubert Fairfax has that
in hand, and the first meeting will be held
in the Australia tomorrow at a quarter-
past eleven. This photograph of the
capable and popular Y.W. president is
from Dorothy Welding.
Many notable ladies were gathered in
Martin-place last Friday to help the
China Day appeal, but most prominent
in the assemblage was a lady from India.
Her name was Alice, and her years going
on 99. Her cloak of green velvet spangled
with silver stars was as verdure-tinted as
the canopy of a little stall outside the
Commonwealth Bank. Alice, who is
senior elephant in Wirth’s Circus, showed
no sign of fatigue, although she recently
hiked all the way from Victoria to Syd-
nCAll day long there were crowds around
the C.W.A. stall and that on which were
displayed English bath towels, Chinese
embroidered table napery and such. By
midday some large-size English ironstone
china soup-plates and piles of odd saucers
seemed the only wares left on the counter
presided over by Josephine Marks and
Mrs. Maurice Gulson. Mrs. Hubert
Fairfax was one of the day’s tireless
workers. Pretty Chinese girls in national
dress sold buttons.
When Hannibal crossed the Alps he
started something. It now seems part ot
every modern army’s task to cross some
mountain range or ridge. Think of the
Owen Stanleys, for instance. Artist James
Emery, of the A.1.F., knows all about the
modern expression of the uphill job the
old Carthaginian started, as witness his
“Railway Construction, Syria.” This is
one of 32 paintings now on show in the
Blaxland Galleries. The exhibition was
opened last Monday by Lieut.-Colonel
K. A. Fraser, 0.8. E. With the exception
of two Australian landscapes, the pic-
tures are all of the Middle East. Here
are blues and greens and pinky-reds
placed on canvas with a living zest, and
with a feeling for the romantic that is
never spongy.
James is really a map-maker, serving
in the Australian Railway Construction
Unit, and his draughtsmanship is about
perfect. He was a pupil of Julian Ash-
ton, and carries on the tradition of that
fine teacher. “Grass in Springtime” with
its windbreak of trees and the shepherd
boy piping to his flock alongside the
Palestine-Egypt railway has somehow a
strong Australian appeal.
Rosalind Mary Bateman will soon be
taken by mother (wife of Dr. Tom Bate-
man) to have her first glimpse of Wagga.
Rosalind Mary was born three weeks ago
in Sydney, and she goes home to be
christened, „
Phyllis Raves, V.A.D., of Clifton
Gardens, is among the newly engaged.
Her affianced is Lieut. Bruce Cuttle,
A.1.F.. returned from the Middle
East. Phyllis’s parents are the Victor
Raves couple. Father is a well-known
man of law. Lieut. Cuttle is a son o*
the John Cuttles, of Cremorne.
The more belles who enlist in the W.L.A.
the greater Mr. Bellemore’s delight. The
Deputy Director-General of Man-power
grew almost lyric last week in his con-
gratulations on the work of the W.L.A.,
which has just attained its first birthday.
During the year its members have canned
vegetables and fruit, harvested 1000 tons
of prunes, harvested rice in the Murrum-
bidgee districts and picked cotton in
Queensland. Altogether they have done,
as Mr. Bellemore puts it, “a man-sized
job. Lady Denman (whose husband was
onetime Governor-General of Australia),
now Director of the 50,000-strong
Women’s Land Army in England, will
broadcast on August 6 a talk to the Aus-
tralian W.L.A. through the 8.8. C. at
5.15 p.m. This will be re-broadcast by
the A.B.C. on August 8.
Nancy Jobson, so well known as the
principal of Hopewood House, noted
finishing school till the services claimed
it, is grieving the loss of a distinguished
and public-spirited sister—lsabel Jobson,
who, with her friend Leah Rosenthal,
founded Vimy House private hospital in
Melbourne at the close of the 1914-18
war.
Both ladies had served throughout
that war with the Queen Alexandra Army
Nurses. For three years they weie
attached to a casualty clearing station
at Bethune. With 48 others; all specially
picked, they were sent to Etaples to
learn to administer anesthetics. They
were stationed 18 miles from Mons when
the Armistice was signed. Sister Isabel
Jobson was awarded the Royal Red
Cross, and was recommended for the
M.M. for bravery under fire at Bethune.
In the Overseas Club last Friday
Aubrey Halloran, on behalf of the His-
torical Society, took possession of parts
of a bicycle. Fred Blakeley handed it
over. He had ridden the machine from
White Cliffs to Port Darwin when it was
new and shining. This was in 1908, when
for 800 miles of the journey there was no
road at all. The story of that Homeric
adventure, shared with his two friends
Jim and Dick O’Neill, can be found in
Hard Liberty, published by Harrap six
years ago. It was edited by the educa-
tional Muriel Morley, of Hornsby, who
also gave the book its title, from Milton’s
“Paradise Lost”: “Free and to none ac-
countable, preferring hard liberty beloie
the easy y0ke....” Mr. Blakeley has
also presented the society with a copy of
his book. ,
Arthur Denereaz (the surname is grand-
father’s and only used for concert pur-
poses), who is a son of Sydney’s noted
violin maker A. E. Smith, gave his first
recital at the Con. last Wednesday night.
Arthur, who is very like a slim Yehudi
Menuhin, wrote the programme notes on
the music he played, except that on
Brahms’s. “Some of that came out o! a
book,” to quote the player. His friend
Athol Kirkland, another young pianist,
stood by and saw that the violinist’s dress-
ing room was as warm as the radiator
supply would allow. The programme gave
the musician a chance to contrast the
romantic and classical nature of his tal-
ents. Groups of young friends acted as
ushers and programme sellers. Athol
Kirkland will make his first public solo
appearance in the beginning of next year.


Sell
ramps
Pj
Agents:
M. Moss & Co. Pty. Ltd.,
SYDNEY.
G O & <'s I (
Jp£ A f r £SA?£"S 0$
57£7/QA/£/?y I A)
; KLcorr-b
h ,«..?ifl w
rtPW
■ v }}w l tvfa
tm
'~<\ W >•,:
&n«= *- v. ■•*
m
W»<k
r/M
m
mm
sr-s
/ ';.A; X ..‘ : ' V \f/ /
WM %
■m§r^%, : m
a
.«**■«». jg
.
n I
a —a
ii
P /:
Six X
sisr
AMERICANS CALL IT A DRUG STORE... we call it
a chemist’s. Drug store news item ... Americans are switch-
ing to tooth powder for dental hygiene. They’re going in a
big way for Kolynos Tooth Powder, a powder form of fam-
ous Kolynos Dental Cream. If you’re interested in trying
new ideas, limited stocks of this pleasant Kolynos Tooth
Powder are now available here at chemists and stores. It
certainly gives teeth a lustrous polish. And it gives your
mouth that famous feeling of “Kolynos freshness”.
KOLYNOS TOOTH POWDER
BY APPOINTMENT.
00-cL
aty
in war.
morrow in peace
THE NAME TO REMEMBER
IS
IS MASTERS VOICE"
THE GRAMOPHONE COY. LTD. (Inc. in England), HOMEBUSH, N.S.W.
R2BA/43
SMOKE-OH!
“Portion of a cigarette has been found in a
bun purchased from a shop at Bondi.” — “Sun."
Surely that’s taking the free-gift busi-
ness too far*.
4* 4* 4* 4*
“Juvenile Double.” —Turf paper.
Twins,
4* 4* 4* 4*
“Cowgirls get a kick out of life helping the
war effort.” —“Sunday Sun.”
They should legrope the cows.
4* 4* 4* 4*
“People come to my shop and refuse to
believe me when I say I have no lambs’ fries
or sheep’s brains.” —A butcher to the “Sun.”
Can’t he appeal to them to have a
heart?
“A man who was sold henna dye in mistake
for liquorice powder woke up in hospital after
taking two doses.”— “D.T.”
Reminds me of one day on the beach
when I rubbed myself all over with a new
sunburn cure. It was only when I woke
up resembling a baboon and was taken
to the zoo that I realised it was a bottle
of hair restorer. Another day I took a
bottle of nerve tonic. That night I woke
up on top of Station 2GAB’s wireless
tower. An analysis proved it to be O.P.
rum. My ill-luck finally ended in disaster.
In all good faith I gave my mother-in-
law a dose of liver salts which turned
out to be strychnine. The Judge didn’t
believe a word I said.
Petermac.
4* 4* 4* 4*
“See our special line of reversible coats.”
— Advt.
Some of our politicians will find these
fit perfectly.
4* 4* 4» 4*
Good Judge.
“The frank and natural miss collects divi-
dends if she remains frank and natural.”
— Woman’s paper.
She wisely chooses graceful clothes,
She lives within her station,
She’s not affected, doesn’t pose,
Or turn to imitation.
False sentiments she’d never quote.
Her friends she wouldn’t chivvy ;
But when she backs ’em on the tote
{Hot favorite or hairy goat )
This miss collects a divvy!
P. O. M. C.
Cause and Effect.
“Noisy crowd at recital.” — “S. M. Herald.”
The great pianist had just taken his
seat at the instrument when a murmur
arose from the body of the hall. The
virtuoso stood up, bowed again, and re-
sumed his seat. But the muttering grew
louder. A trifle wild, the pianist defi-
antly tossed his head, sat down and
bashed into the opening bars of the
sonata. The noise had by now swelled
to an uproar. The pianist hesitated no
longer. Kicking the piano over, he
strutted indignantly off the platform.
It was a keen-eyed usher who dis-
covered the cause of the demonstration.
Going across he asked the man in the
end seat of the sixth row would he mind
putting out of sight the packet of 20
cigarettes sticking conspicuously out of
his breast pocket,
Yair.
4* 4- 4> 4*
“Apples will peel much easier if they are
placed in boiling water for a few minutes before
peeling.”— “Woman’s Mirror.’'’
Boarding-house keepers who really
know their job will then serve the water
as fruit-cup.
A Real Flier.
“I was approximately eight miles from camp
that night when I shot my last ’roo. I plucked
him and turned for home and my camp oven.”
—“Western Mail.’''
Oh, we have wonderful things in the
West!
Our sun and our sand and our beer’s of
the best.
We’re proud of our Curtin, our wheat
and our wethers;
But THIS will astound you —it beats all
the rest —
Our Groperland ’roos go a-hopping in
feathers.
BUTCHER BIRD.
Surrealist.
“On hearing Mae referred to as a picture
of innocence Tess gave a scornful sneer.”
—Magazine story.
“How appropriate!” spitefully muttered
Tess.
“For any with Mae acquainted
Can see she’s a picture of innocence — yes.
By a modern artist painted!”
T. W. N.
Orders Is...
“Housewives to have say on food.”
—“Sunday Sun.’’
They always did, from what we hear.
When homeward hies her weary knight
The wife just drawls
“Now, then, no brawls —
You’re cooking tea again tonight!’’
LOOBY.
Stretching It.
“Japan Builds Rubber Ship.” —Cable heading.
Admiral Igoda Hotsago proudly paced
the bridge of his new flagship H.I.J.M.S.
Caoutchouc Maru.
General Tojo had given orders that
the 3,000,000 surplus tons of pinched
rubber which Japan couldn’t find buyers
for would have to be used up somehow,
and when Tojo gave orders they had
to be obeyed. The new ship, the
revolutionary features of which had been
designed by the admiral himself, was
the result.
The great rubber boilers, fired eco-
nomically by old pencil erasers, golf balls
and worn-down rubber heels, kept the
heat with a minimum of attention, on the
principle of the hot-water bag; the tall
masts were of specially selected straight-
grained rubber. During a storm they had
recently struck the mast tips had bent
right to the decks, and as they whipped
back and forth with the wind had swept
22 men overboard. Still, they hadn’t
snapped. The main armament, triple
turrets of 16in guns, were all rubber,
as were the shells they fired. When not
in use the guns were deflated, lying on
the deck like hoses, thus tricking enemy
reconnaisance ’planes into believing it
was merely a humanitarian anti-sea fire
ship. The special 24in. torpedoes were
of sponge-rubber, which would first
squash against a ship before exploding,
thus spreading the area of damage. The
huge rubber shaft that turned the rubber
propellers revolved noiselessly.
The only thing not quite satisfactory
was the latex lenses of the admiral’s
binoculars; these were opaque instead
of translucent, but no doubt he would in
time get used to them.
As the admiral stooped over the
binnacle to study the compass, the rubber
hands of which were impervious to out-
side magnetic influence, an excited voice
bellowed in his ear. The admiral visibly
started, then volubly cursed the spirits of
his wife’s ancestors. He still hadn’t got
used to the noiseless approach. The
sailor bowed politely and handed him a
message. He read it swiftly, then twice
hit a rubber bell to command the crew’s
attention. “Honorable enemy in sight,”
he announced. “Inflate the forward turret
guns, kindly.”
Within a few Seconds 40 sailors were
kneeling on the deck alongside each gun,
blowing it up in unison to the chanting
of a fugleman. As each great gun came
slowly erect to the required stiffness the
blowing valves were screwed down
tightly. Soon the big rubber shells were
coming up, but not by the old electric
hoist system used by the decadent
democracies. All the men down in the
magazine had to do was throw the shells
down on the ends and they would
bounce up to the waiting gunners. As
the rangefinders got on to the target, an
Allied ship made of old-fashioned steel,
the admiral stared through his latex
lenses as best he could. Satisfied at last,
he gave the order: “Fire honorable
guns!”
As the shells flew out the resilient gun
barrels got all twisted together as they
jumped around on the recoil, but even
before they had stopped bounding the
Jap sailors had sprung on them and were
untying the knots. Before they had time
to reload there came a thin whining
sound, which got louder and louder. The
admiral again began cursing the spirits
of his wife’s ancestors. He hadn’t allowed
for this. He had registered a direct hit
with one of the shells, and it was now
coming back at them, swifter on the re-
bound than when it left. As the return-
ing shell shrieked under the bridge
Admiral Hotsago leaped high in the air.
According to Domei that happened
last week. The admiral is still bouncins. l
around the bridge, but it is feared that in
the meantime he has starved to death,
BO.


THE OTHER FELLOW'S MIND
The contributor placed first is paid
4£d. per line; all others 2£d. per line.
Benefits of Unionism?
It is urged as a reason why unionism
should be made compulsory that the
unions have been responsible for the
benefits the workers of 1943 enjoy. Have
they? And what are the benefits?
The great mass of workers are worse
off than they were 30 years ago. Two
actual cases. A friend of mine manages
a branch of a bank in a large country
town. In 1910 the salary was £475 a
year, which, with no income tax and
c. 0.1. less than half what it is today, was
a comfortable screw. Today the same
branch carries £5OO p.a., of which over
a quarter goes in direct taxation, and it
takes two and a half of each of those
pounds to buy one of the gold sovereigns
of the 1910 salary.
I am town clerk of a fair-sized country
town. The job carries £650 a year. The
town clerk of 1910 received £350. I pay
£l5O per annum income tax, leaving net
£5OO, But £350 in 1910 would buy more
than £BOO today, and there was no direct
taxation to come out, of the £350. On
top of that, with the extension of local-
governing activities, I have just about as
twice as much work to do for my £650
as my predecessor of 1910 had for his
£350.
In many callings, hours have been pro-
gressively reduced and conditions im-
proved, but financially I think most
workers are worse off. Those in which
the union bosses make a habit of striking
on any pretext or none are definitely
worse off. —Sandpatch (N.S.W.).
A Middle-class Union
Unionism is dominating Australia today,
so it is time for the middle class to
coalesce and form its own union. If
half a million members could be organ-
ised to pay £1 a year membership fee,
the funds could be devoted to benefits
such as protecting the interests of the
middle class in the courts and elsewhere.
I am forced to urge this because
I believe the middle class is the back-
bone of the community. I supply funds,
via income tax, for at least four old-age
pensioners, or one soldier or half a muni-
tion-worker, and yet as a unit am power-
less to fight and restrain the one-sided
regulations and doubtful legislation which
are brought about as the result of the
combination of the trade-union class.
Collective bargaining seems to be the
modem method of self-protection, so why
not a middle class burden-bearers’ union?
—lconoclast (Tas,),
Commissions and Promotions
Commissions and promotions have
always been a sore point with R.A.A.F.
personnel. Now the popular press of
Australia w r ants to know why more plums
are not handed out. It wants to know
why such a splendid pilot as F,/Sgt.
Middleton, who was good enough to win
a V.C., wasn’t good enough to win a
commission.
Such questions by the press, and for
that matter by members of the R.A.A.F.,
come from a misunderstanding of the
position.
For a start, and perhaps the most im-
portant point, promotions and commis-
sions are not given on flying ability
alone. They are given for administrative
qualities and the ability to handle and
lead men. A pilot may be a topnotch
flier but a poor administrator and leader
of men. The Air Force, then, would be
defeating the whole idea of granting
commissions if it gave him one.
In the second instance, it is impossible
to give every pilot a commission for the
simple reason that in no time the Air
Force would become so top-heavy that
it would cease to function effectively.
For a third point, it is to the benefit
of a pilot who has just finished his train-
ing to spend a time as an n.c.o. The
experience he gains in these ranks will
fit him better by far for the commission
which is always granted after a time—if
the pilot has the goods.
I am sure that, with a knowledge of
these facts, there would be much less
bickering on the part of those concerned
and a greater concentration on doing a
good job at what they are. Promotion
would come quicker and we would get
the war over sooner. —G. M. (R.A.A.F.).
“These Eagles’ *
Criticism of These Eagles . official
R.A.A.F. publication, by “J.H.” (R. A.A.F.)
is a piece of smart letter-writing, but as
bona fide literary criticism it is punk.
I have read O.H.M.S. and Soldiering On,
the two companion service volumes pub-
lished at the same time, and the R.A.A.F.
book, to say the least, compares favor-
ably with them. I have heard Wing-
Commander Clive Caldwell (D.F.C. and
bar), Flight-Lieutenant Graham Pockley
(D.F.C. and bar) and Flying-Officer
Ernie Coate (D.F.C. and bar) praise
These Eagles.
The first edition of the book sold out
rapidly, and many R.A.A.F. personnel
were unable to secure additional copies
which they intended to present to friends.
“J.H.” admits that he did not read
further than one particular paragraph
which he quotes. In the circumstances
it is not surprising that his criticism fails
to do justice to a book which, admittedly,
he hasn’t read. “An amazing epic of
balderdash,” writes “J.H.” No Bulletin
reader will call this, fair criticism. Inci-
dentally “J.H.’s” opinion, obviously
biased, found no support in the published
reviews of newspaper critics, all of whom
praised These Eagles— J. J. (R.A.A.F.).
Soldiers and Citizens
Just after reading “Pip’s” advocacy of
a concerted army drive in educational
and vocational training (B. 7/7/’43), I
received an April issue (18/4/’43) of
London’s “Sunday Dispatch,” in which
Prof. C. E. M. load pleads the British
citizen-soldier’s right to better education.
One comparison is striking. “Pip” says:
“Ninety-five per cent of this unit know
absolutely nothing of politics.., .Inter-
national affairs and relations are a closed
book I get them together and talk
about the world they live in politics,
or history, or current affairs.” Professor
load wants the British soldier to be al-
lowed to discover what he and his mates
are fighting for —“the right not to be
robots.., .unthinking automata, but
alert, critical, independent-minded citizens
thinking our own thoughts, passing our
own judgments.”
But Professor load has discovered a
fly in the ointment. The British soldier
(of the citizen army) is deprived of the
right of talking about and discussing in
public the kind of country for which he
is fighting and in which he wants to live.
The Under-Secretary for War denied that
soldiers were muzzled, and pointed out
that there was nothing in King’s regula-
tions to prevent them attending poli-
tical meetings, for instance. load
neatly countered that by publishing the
conditions; First, that the soldiers must
be on leave ; second, they must be in
mufti; third, they must be in their own
constituency; fourth, there must be an
election in that constituency ; fifth, they
must not make speeches or express their
opinions, but only ask questions; sixth,
they must ask “proper questions”—“con-
troversial” questions are forbidden.
That’s for the British soldier. Can
“Pip” tell us whether Australian men in
the uniform of any of the services are
shackled in the same way?— Pilot (Tas.).
“In Japanese Hands”
I would suggest that your paper try to
be more accurate when making comment
on matters of importance. I suggest to
you that in addition to Plain English you
indulge in truthful English and not the
mendacious type of propaganda which
you seem to have in common with the
Axis.
You state that some people at Bexley
suggested that their Federal member, Dr,
Evatt, while abroad, should invite the
Russian Government to use its influence
with Japan to obtain a quicker release
of names of Australians in Japanese
hands. Then came your brazen un-
truth : .. .nothing has been heard from
Dr. Evatt.”
As one of his constituents, and as one
with a son “missing” in Malaya, I resent
your utterly false and filthy insinuation
that he ignored the suggestion of his con-
stituents. As a matter of fact, his office
in Sydney acted with most commendable
initiative in the matter, and within a few
hours of receiving the suggestions had
cabled Dr. Evatt at London. Within 48
hours or less he had replied thanking the
local council and Patriotic Committee
for the suggestions, stating that he be-
lieved them of value, that he intended to
act upon them, and was hopeful of
results.
All this information was contained in
the local district papers, and it seems
that they can print the truth, while sup-
posedly “leading” journals like The
Bulletin have no sense of veracity, and
stoop to tactics of the filthiest kind.
I suppose it is too much to hope that
you will correct your “Garbled Eng-
lish.” —E. M. Miller, Wallace-street,
Bexley (N.S.W.).
[Jt was not here stated or insinuated that Dr.
Evatt had “ignored the suggestion of his con-
stituents.” The Bulletin knows he is not that
sort of member. All that the paragraph so
fiercely objected to conveyed was that “nothing”
had “been heard from” him as to actual ne-
gotiations with the Russian Government.]
Post-war Defence of Australia
All are agreed that Australia must
never again be in the position she was
when Japan commenced war, but a
standing army would be enormously ex-
pensive, and in peace-time Australia will
need all her man-power and financial
resources for reconstruction.
I suggest that every male citizen
physically fit on attaining the age of 20
should receive a period of training in one
of the services. By doing this we would
be well prepared, and could put all our
services into action at very short notice.
Skilled officers could be retained to
supervise training and to see that in all
circumstances it was of the sort best
suited for our defence.
Training thus received should be of
benefit physically and morally to the
trainees, and the rest of the population
would have a feeling of confidence and
security.— Mrs. Jock (S.A.).
V.D. and Commonsense
I suggest that Australia should follow
the courageous policy of the British
Health Ministry in its campaign against
V.D. In practically every recent British
periodical the British Health Ministry has
inserted an advertisement which deals
with the menace in a sensible and
straightforward manner.
After pointing out the drastic wastage
of man-power caused by V.D. both in
the army and industry the advertise-
ments set out clearly the causes, types and
danger signals of these diseases and the
resultant misery caused to the sufferer
who is careless.
Clear advice is given to the victim
where to seek free and confidential treat-
ment from qualified practitioners, and
he is warned to avoid the menace of
quacks and house treatment. The matter
is dealt with in frank, sensible and clear
language which can be understood by
all and can give offence to none.
Much good would result if Australian
health authorities, doctors and news-
papers abandoned their present spineless
treatment of this subject and copied these
commonsense methods. —D. Freeman
(Vic.).
Sex in Schools
A recent Gallup poll showed that an
overwhelming majority of adults in Aus-
tralia want sex instruction given by
teachers in schools.
It can’t be done that way. Children
should be given sex instruction only when
they are in a receptive mood. To lec-
ture them on sex in scientific or any
other language when they are in the
opposite mood is to surround the sub-
ject with the unfortunate associations of
their mood. In after life sex will always
tend to carry the memory of the feelings
they had at that time.
Teachers could never have a class in
which all the children were in the same
receptive mood at the same time, so more
damage than good would be done.
If parents are too embarrassed to talk
about these things to their children them-
selves, as one said was the case with him,
they ought to look into themselves, not
shove the job on to schoolteachers. —
Pawang (Vic.).
The Art of Living
A. Daly (B. 23/6/’43) has omitted the
foundation stone of the art of living—
home training. If that is neglected there
can be little pity for parents of social
outcasts who wring their hands and cry
out “I sent my children to college and
what more could I do?”
From childhood on parents could teach
their children obedience and discipline.
Their schools would find it an easy
matter to follow on with the good work.
I have indelibly imprinted upon my
mind the remark passed by the principal
of a college who had under his charge
200 boys. He said “when a boy has been
here for a time there is no need to tell
me what sort of a home he came from.”
—M. P. C. (W.A.).
What to Do with the Coalmines
A solution for the “Unsolved Problem”
(B. 7/ 7/ ’43): Give the coalmines to the
miners. Give ’em Eddie Ward, too!
Then, while scientists are seeking substi-
tutes for coal, try a spot of conciliation
and mediation between the miners as
owners of the mines' and the miners as
miners.
I suggest giving Eddie Ward to the
miners because he would be able to
undertake the job of conciliating and
mediating, and, applying his well-known
maxims, should be at his best explaining
to the miners how, as miners, they are, of
course, always right, and as mineowners
must be always wrong. The fact that this
might lead to some little confusion in the
minds of the miners might not be alto-
gether a matter for regret, as it could con-
ceivably result in some of them going to
work. At the worst it would only mean
accelerating the passing of the Coal Age
so far as Australia is concerned. —H. R.
Richardson, Pine Hills, Wallumbilla
(Q.). •
The Brisbane- —-and Other—Lines
This Brisbane-line business may seem
impressive to ignorance, but any student
of international affairs knows that every
country likely to become involved in war
prepares its War Book. This, a job for
the High Command, if competently done
prepares for every eventuality, whether
for victory or for holding off defeat.
Thus it is a safe bet that the British
War Book contains a plan for the defence
of London should it ever become neces-
sary to abandon the rest of England.
Germany’s War Book likewise has a plan
for the defence of Berlin should an in-
vasion force the abandonment of the
rest of the Reich. France had a War
Book which even contained a plan in the
event of hostilities breaking out with
Britain. Part of this involved the sinking
of a couple of destroyers in the Suez Canal.
If nations didn’t have such plans their
armies in the event of even an indecisive
defeat would be like lost sheep. So the
Brisbane-line Plan merely fits into its
place in Australia's War Book. What
was wanted was a Rabaul-line Plan and
a Gona-Buna-line Plan.
Luckily we seemed to have had some
sort of a Port Moresby-line Plan, which
stopped the Jap. So there was no need
to call on either the Darwin-line Plan or
the Brisbane-line Plan, both of which
should have been left to lie discreetly in
their War Book sepulchre and not be
dragged out to public gaze by election-
eering politicians —an act of political
indecency unparalleled in history. —W. C.
Charnley, Hollywood, Perth (W.A.).


f-
N X
\
y. i
\ 1 v
; X
rr
\i
9
•IM
Hl*
IH)
X>
rr
A Part of
Australia’s
War Effort
A.W.A.’s extensive organisation is
to-day engaged in the production
of wireless equipment for the Navy,
Army, Air Force and Merchant Navy.
Buy £lO National Savings Bonds
and War Savings Certificates
AMALGAMATED WIRELESS (A'SIA) LTD.
