

it
mi
-
The Bulletin
‘The Bulletin,” Vol. No. 3308
Wednesday, July 7, 1943
Price 6d.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.
Seppelts
KENILWORTH— SHAKSPEARE'S COUNTRY IN THE HEART OF ENGLAND.
TH E pleasant little town of Kenilworth acquired its
name in the ninth century from Cenulph or Kenulph,
Saxon King ofi Mercia. In 1115, the first Henry gave the
manor of Kenilphsworth to Geoffrey de Clinton, who built
the Castle, one of the largest and most romantic in all
England, Down through the eventful years that followed
Kenilworth was constantly extended. It figured promi-
nently in the barons’ wars and, after withstanding siege for
six months, was taken by the third Henry in 1266. John
of Gault built Kenilworth’s famous Strong Tower, then
Henry VIII made further additions, as also did Robert
Dudley, earl of Leicester, on whom the Castle was con-
ferred by Queen Elizabeth. Sir Walter Scott’s novel,
named after the Castle, combines the story of the Queen’s
visit to her favorite with the tragedy of Amy Robsart.
The memorable entertainments with which Leicester wel-
comed the Good Queen Bess would have been well known
to Shakspeare and he may even have been present at them
in person.
“How sweet the moonlight sleeps upon this bank!
Here will we sit and let the sounds of music
Creep in our ears: soft stillness and the night
Become the touches of sweet harmony.”
But Kenilworth’s splendor has departed. In Cromwellian
days Parliamentary forces occupied the famous Gate
House and the rest of the magnificent buildings were ruth-
lessly demolished. This great rambling ruin, chocolate
ruddy in the Warwick air, fills one with a sense of desola-
tion, Tudor England, as time goes, was only yesterday,
yet here are tattered walls flung empty to the sky with once
grand stairways ending in thin air, a ruin and a tragedy.
Had Kenilworth survived as have other contemporary
buildings, this Castle would be without a peer among the
historic monuments of England.


Learn v
Story
Writing
* at HOME
This Book FREE to YOU!
STOTT’S CORRESPONDENCE COLLEGE.
100 Russell Street. Melbourne.
Please send, without obligation, your New Tree
Booklet, explaining how to jTrite for Profit, 'm
advertised in the Sydney “Bulletin.
My Name
My Address
b.U. 243 .
AGE.
The Red Page
KNIGHT AT ARMS.
“Do you believe in working for
nothing, Mr. Gallagher?” asked Mr.
Shean.
“Such a question,” said Mr. Gallagher,
“borders on the fantastic.”
“Do you think Lionel Lindsay believes
in working for nothing?” continued Mr.
Shean.
“Mr. Shean,” said Mr. Gallagher, “I
doubt it.”
“Do you think artists should work for
nothing?” persisted Mr. Shean.
“I believe that artists, above all,
should insist on being grossly overpaid
on all possible occasions,” said Mr.
Gallagher. “They have the best goods
in the world to sell; let them be paid
accordingly. An artist, distressing though
it may sound, is neither an angel nor a
will-o’-the-wisp, but a man ; and no man
can respect himself until he can make a
living by the skill of his brain or his
hands.”
“I agree with you,” said Mr. Shean. “I
am sure that Lionel Lindsay agrees with
you. And yet, when one Albert Cohen
dares to assert ‘We do not believe in
working for nothing,’ we find Lionel
Lindsay commenting, ‘Art, bow your
diminished head to the only true god, the
Calf of Gold.’ ”
“Ah,” said Mr. Gallagher. “You have
been reading Lionel Lindsay’s Addled
Art (Angus and Robertson) and, like
everybody else, have been stung to un-
governable fury.”
“Mr, Gallagher,” said Mr. Shean,
“you do me an injustice. I found his
book highly entertaining and, on the
whole, eminently sensible. But I do con-
fess that, particularly at one point, it
stung me to a wicked grin.”
“At precisely what point?” asked Mr.
Gallagher.
“At the hundreds of innocent girls,”
said Mr. Shean. “Speaking of Dali’s
‘L’Homme Fleur,’ which was on exhi-
bition in Australia some time ago, he
writes:
“ ‘Perhaps it is well that the teaching of
French does not extend to the finesse of
criminal slang for the edification of the hun-
dreds of innocent girls who viewed
“L’Homme Fleur.” ’ ”
“True, true,” said Mr. Gallagher.
“Whether or not we liked M. Dali’s bit
of second-hand Freud—and none of us
did—paintings are not to be judged by
their effect on hundreds of innocent girls.
Let our hundreds of innocent girls stay
home and play with their hundreds of
innocent dolls. You and I and Lionel
Lindsay, for whom these exhibitions are
arranged, have not been noticeably
corrupted by anything we have seen.”
“Nor,” said Mr. Shean, “could you
and 1 agree that Freud has a ‘dirty
# mind.’ ”
“Anybody who tries to write or paint
in the terms of Freudian theory unmodi-
fied by Jung is taking the enormous risk
of supposing that Freud discovered the
final truth about the universe,” said Mr.
Gallagher. “Insofar as the Freudian cult
denies spiritual values, it degrades man
and the gods. Freud shed a little light
on a great darkness, but also a little
darkness on a great light. But 1 do not
think we are entitled to dismiss a thinker
of his profundity, sincerity and courage
as merely a ‘dirty mind.’ ”
“I observe,” said Mr. Shean, “that we
are forced into a discussion of the failings
of Addled Art. And yet with nine-tenths
of the book we have no quarrel whatso-
ever. Lionel Lindsay is surely correct
when he sees ‘modern’ art, which has
always claimed to represent the age, as
‘a visible symptom of the spiritual
malady of France.’ If you have read the
life of Modigliani, to take one representa-
tive ‘modern’ artist, you will have no
difficulty in agreeing that some of the
gods of the movement have been deca-
dents: nor is that fact altogether irrele-
vant. A decadent may produce good
art; but I do not think he will produce
the best art. I am wholly with Lionel
Lindsay when he invites Australians to
work within or expand from their own
fine tradition in painting. Furthermore —
provided he does not break out into wild
generalities such as ‘forcing the painters
of their race on the credulous Christian’
—I don’t see that anyone can object to
his proving that ‘modern’ art has been
predominantly a Jewish movement. If he
avoids wild generalities such as ‘the plea-
sure of taking down the Goysher’ it is
no more anti-Semitic to talk about the
Jewish decadence in art in pre-war Paris
than it would be anti-British to talk about
(he decadence of the English poets of
the ’nineties.”
“The trouble is,” said Mr. Gallagher,
“he does not refrain from those wild
generalities.”
“Truly,” said Mr. Shean, “he goeth
about like a raging Lionel, seeking whom
he may devour.”
“1 pay tribute to him,” said Mr.
Gallagher, “for holding forcible opinions
and not being afraid to express them.
An Australian critic whom 1 hold in the
greatest respect wrote the other day ‘lt
would be impertinent to review T. S.
Eliot.’ Because some of the critics were
wrong about Corot or Gauguin, all the
critics these days, fearing that they might
be wrong about Picasso and Modigliani,
are afraid to hold any opinions whatso-
ever. For the Lord’s sake, let us darn
well be impertinent enough to hold
opinions one way or the other about T.
S. Eliot. Personally, I like him. And if
we think ‘modern’ art is addled, let us
say so —only a little less polemically than
Lionel Lindsay does.”
“His most telling arguments,” said Mr.
Shean, “are his illustrations. When he
prints side by side a Titian nude and a
Matisse, dispute is no longer possible.
The basis of criticism is comparison. The
Titian nude sets the standard. And, as
far as my fallible eyes can see, Matisse
is not in the race. If I am wrong, I am
wrong.”
“I am with you,” said Mr. Gallagher.
“Picasso pains me, and I don’t want to
know any more about Salvador Dali’s
subconscious. It is not a beautiful sub-
conscious ; I don’t care a hang what
happens in it. And if hundreds of
innocent girls think we are all hopelessly
antediluvian, I don’t care a hang about
them either.”
A Life of Lawson.
The time has not yet come when a
full, critical and completely detached life
of Henry Lawson can be written. When
the full biography is written, if it is to
have warmth, color and a correct his-
torical perspective, it will have to paint
the Australian “Elizabethan period” in
full, showing Lawson in the midst of a
tradition of literary Bohemianism.
Bertha Lawson’s My Henry Lawson
(Frank Johnson) should be regarded not
so much as an attempt at a biography
as evidence for the biographer of the
future. It is Lawson as seen by his
wife, the essentially unhappy story told
simply and sincerely, restrainedly but
without undue reticence. The book is
nicely made ; and Will Lawson, who has
done the actual writing “as told to him
by Bertha Lawson” (Will is no relation
to Henry), has made a good job of it
by staying in the background and letting
Mrs. Lawson talk naturally.
Apart from the personal story, the con-
temporary reader and the biographer of
the future will find considerable interest
in the accounts of Lawson’s methods of
composition—he dictated most of his
stories to his wife ; in the anecdotes tell-
ing how various stories came to be written
and on what then-living persons they
were founded ; and in the chapter en-
titled “Australia’s Bohemia,” which is a
useful preliminary sketch for a painting
of the period.
Nearly all Lawson’s work was auto-
biographical. “ ‘Joe Wilson and His
Mates,’ ” stfys Bertha Lawson, “is the
story of Harry and myself”:
He was Joe, I was Mary, nicknamed by
him “Possum.” Though the story is set
in different surroundings, it tells of our
lives, our courtship and family affairs.
The scene where Joe tried to kiss Mary and
she said “No, I won’t kiss a man till I’m
engaged to him,” and when she said that a
young doctor had tried to, and she had told
him the same thing, is quite true. I remem-
ber it made Harry laugh, for he knew I
was quite unsophisticated, and he said “All
right then, we’re engaged.” He was like
Joe Wilson, very like him.
The future biographer’s hardest job is
going to be the reconciling of the Law-
son who wrote the “Little Arvie” set with
the Lawson who wrote “The Loaded
Dog” and “The Ventriloquial Rooster.”
What a clash of opposites one man can
be!
The Tooth of Buddha.
Among the loot acquired by Dom
Constantino de Bragan9a when he
invaded the kingdom of Jafna on the
north coast of Ceylon was a tooth set
in a casket of gold and jewels. It was
not, presumably, a tooth of more than
ordinary beauty, but it was of extra-
ordinary spiritual significance, for it was
the celebrated Kandy Tooth of Buddha,
a tolerably authentic relic which had
been venerated for a thousand years,
The city of Kandy had lent it to the city
of Jafna. The Portuguese look it to
Goa.
Bayin-naung, King of Burma, heard of
the affair. He yearned after the Tooth,
The Portuguese, he reasoned, were mere
heathens who might easily be persuaded
to surrender it for sordid cash. He
offered a sordid £60,000. Dom Constan-
lino de Bragan9a was tempted. He fell.
But the Viceroy of Portuguese Asia, as
the Archbishop pointed out, should have
known very well that the tooth was more
than a tooth: it was a damnable symbol
of heathendom, almost an idol. The
Portuguese were not in India to make
their fortunes, but to convert the be-
nighted. They were Crusaders. Dorn
Constantino, believing that £60,000 was
a lot of money, was inclined to argue.
The Archbishop called him a Freemason.
The Inquisition had been introduced into
Goa the previous year. Dom Constan-
tino suddenly perceived that £60,000 was
not worth bothering about. The Tooth
was yielded to the Church to be
destroyed.
On the date fixed for the performance
. of this act a great crowd, both Portuguese
and Indian, assembled in the square in front
of the cathedral. The Archbishop stood at
the top of the steps. Beside him were a
mortar and a brazier. The Viceroy, who
was present with his whole staff, handed
him the Tooth, which he placed in the
mortar, and with a heavy pestle ground it
to powder. The powder was then thrown
into the brazier. When the fire had died
down the ashes were carefully collected and
consigned to the sea. This elaborate public
destruction of the Tooth proclaimed to the
world that even a great sum of money
could not soften Portuguese hatred of
idolatry. But it also showed their esti-
mate of the Tooth’s power only differed
from Bayin-naung’s in that, while he con-
sidered it a good, they were convinced
it was a bad potency. The Archbishop,
we cannot doubt, set out to destroy a devil,
a difficult feat to accomplish, as will appear
in the sequel. Yet the act was, perhaps,
the most disinterested ever performed by
the Portuguese in India.
The sequel, which proved the inde-
structibility of a legend, came fourteen
years later. Bayin-naung, who had
acquired several White Elephants (objects
of almost as much virtue as the Tooth),
much renown and much power in war,
wished to marry the daughter of the King
of Colombo. One of his four queens
had died and there was a vacancy. The
King of Colombo, having a great respect
for his powerful neighbor but no
daughter, thought it prudent to invent
one. His Chancellor’s daughter was a
suitable ring-in. There was, of course,
the danger that Bayin-naung would dis-
cover the fraud. No doubt he would be
able to control his anger and refrain from
laying waste the kingdom of Colombo if
a really handsome dowry went with the
girl. One queen was very much like
another, but a really handsome dowry
was different. What did Bayin-naung
desire above all other things in the world?
What else but the Tooth of Buddha?
Colombo had already faked a king’s
daughter. A Tooth presented no trouble
at all. Colombo presented the King of
Burma with the Tooth of Kandy. They
explained that the Portuguese had been
tricked ; it was only a monkey’s tooth
the Archbishop so solemnly destroyed.
Probably because he wanted to be con-
vinced, Bayin-naung was convinced.
Musicians played on the royal barge as
the king went to meet the Tooth;
dancers danced and the crowds on the
river bank prostrated themselves in
adoration. Possessor of several White
Elephants and the Kandy Tooth, Bayin-
naung was well on the way towards be-
coming the emperor of the world. In
his next incarnation, if not in his present
one, he had every chance of becoming a
Buddha himself.
There was, it is true, a certain amount
of scepticism in Kandy. In a letter to his
brother of Burma written shortly after
the welcome to the Tooth, the King of
Kandy expressed the opinion that the
sacred relic was no more than the tooth
of a monkey: for the original Kandy
Tooth, the one and only genuine Tooth
of Buddha, was still where it had always
been, in the Temple of the Tooth at
Kandy. It had never been lent to Jafna
in the first place.
But Bayin-naung was unmoved. He had
had, as we have said, his weighty reasons
for holding his Tooth to be authentic. And
he had equally weighty reasons for refus-
ing now to admit he had been deceived.
Accordingly, he dismissed the bearers
of the letter with the reply that it would ill
become one destined to be a Buddha to
enter into a controversy with wilful sceptics.
Whether there was any real Buddha tooth
must be extremely doubtful. But the
priests of Kandy insist to this day that
their Tooth is a true relic, and I myself
saw it in 1931, at the Temple of the Tooth,
one day when it was being shown to some
distinguished Burmese visitors.
That, summarised, is one chapter from
Maurice Collis’s The Land of the Great
Image (Faber ; Roycroft). Essentially an
account of the Portuguese empire in
India, its rise, its opulence and its fall.
The Land of the Great Image is based
on the journals of a Friar Manrique and,
by its study of the friar’s personality
and its recounting of his journeys into
Bengal and Arakan, becomes a travel
book and a biography as well as a
history. And the history is not a pur-
poseless record of facts but, demonstrat-
ing that the Burmese and the Portuguese
both dreamed the same dream of world
domination under a unifying religion, is
intended to be related to the present
clash of ideals and politics—Japanese^,
Burmese and British —in the same region.
In the careful modulation of its style,
in its occasional lapses into mere word-
spinning, and in the ironic appreciation
of the odd, the terrible, the supernatural
and the baroque which is its spirit, the
book seems to owe a good deal to the
Sitwells. It is as fine a piece of crafts-
manship as any Sitwell prose work, and
there’s more solid meat in it than either
Osbert or Sacheverell usually serves.
Though not important as creative litera-
ture, it is easily the best piece of general
reading that has come this Page’s way
since Dr. S. M. Lambert’s A Doctor in
Paradise.
Various Verse
Poor Dr. Swift.
Poor Doctor Swift,
From Ireland he started
And when rule was over
To Ireland departed;
Beyond all doubt was proud in his day,
Mordant, but only really gay
In letters that his stricken tongue
Lisped to a world forever young.
His mind saw with an awful clarity
Every strange and sickening disparity
Between what we are and what pretend:
We merely guess his grief at the end.
Today we speak of Art as a friend
Who slips from his sleeve for our moral uplift
A grand slam of beauty whatever Man’s shift:
But we’re all rather frightened of poor Doctor
Swift.
N.S.W.
O.N.B.
The Fire.
I saw the sap stir in the wood,
The tire put out its leaves of flame;
Brilliant as summer flashed and fell
The rose intolerant, the flower.
The darkness stirred like dust on air,
Furled out and filled the empty room,
And over the hearth the moss, the ash
Settled like silence, sad as snow.
In drifts about the blackened bough.
Time was a dream, and I could raise
The ghost of that gold-crested bird
Who lit the morning sky with flame
When Helen slipped from Paris’ arms
And all the ships set sail for Troy.
Time was a dream. I saw the fire,
The falling towers, the charred desire,
And still like snowflakes through the dream
The ashes on the darkening years.
N.S.W.
ROSEMARY DOBSON.
Service.
Though death was tamed in service, led
Through pipes, along wires, it was much as when
He cleaned the crooked and inbred
From the old time; for that served men,
Yet they feared nightfall. Now he drives
The young and strong. And if I would squeeze
Theory of profit from those lives,
Let all men shun me like disease.
So it is for others to show cause
In greed or poverty for this thing,
Or tilting of economic laws,
And to talk new justice and marketing.
But one might ask of steady hand
And cool eye at a last ridge.
Did not death, coming upon that stand
Where he brought unknowingness like an edge
That drops to nothing, serve still, being part
Of the wind across noon which is blowing yet—
Being more as this hammer in the heart
Challenging silence, than end met.
N.s.w.
ROBERT D. FITZGERALD.
Dawn (Post 3).
Despite the hour-long, leaden-heavy denial
By dark of dawn, the east declares itself
With winking affirmations from the stars
That watched the frost all night.
Someone has shaken
A dusty flour-sack over the flat earth,
And as the east, in a cloudless pallor washed
From south to north, brightens above the black
It finds all blotched with white.
No bird, no bugle, no mongrel voices break
The tender, unimpassioned flow of light |
Over the black rim of the icy world
Whose little men a little sentry guards
With pale yawning eyes. At this hour, J
Sleep’s last, my love with knees drawn smoothly
up.
And hair spread cold upon the pillow, turns
But does not dream of me; the dawn’s my own
To summon further up with all my mind
To light her sleeping mouth and uncovered
throat — ||
But where she sleeps I know not, nor how well:
Our only word is the dawn, inevitable
And breathed across the frosts into high heaven
Where all the stars have vanished. Like a ghost,
Night’s gone. Here, soon, the day will step
out firmly.
And none remember the secret frost gathering,
The blind, wet, weary eyes of sentries staring,
The windless silence, the long, long denial
By dark of this.
My warm white love asleep
Will turn again, perhaps, from the day’s eye.
And dream again, or waken with a sigh.
N.S.W.
KENNETH MACKENZIE.


"TRUTH IN ADVERTISING"
"THE SENIOR STORE"
ANTHONY HORDERNS* 119 Years of Service
m
?> v
m
m
m
tVIS--
VELVENE
WATER PAINT
For interior and exterior decora-
tion. This paint gives a velvety
finish on new plaster, brick, stone
or cement. Ready for use after the
addition of cold water. The colours
are White or Cream.
Sizes
Prices
141 b. 71b. 41b.
12/2 6/2 3/9
m
m
A
m
m
-v
m
m
m
&
n
f &
m
fry
m
m
m
m
PAINT BRUSH
Cleaning COMPOUND
This compound makes dry or dirty
paint brushes like new. Price, per
packet 6d.
s
&
S/t
m.
"CHAMPLEAD"
LIQUID RED LEAD
Ideal priming and undercoating
for all metal surfaces. Ready for
use.
Sizes . . 1 gall. |gall. qt. pt.
Prices . 33/6 18/- 10/- 5/6
m
m
m
■ ■ :
■
m
m
m
m
«r
*m s II
mm
m
«rr
■ m * :
%
; S;*" K
1
*
tiiii %
-I \
mmm
M
W
\
%#?
,- >
ifc %
«• .is.. 1
4-HG-HGRADt
I 1 1 *
.
3
R6D \'J \
ROOf PAINT
m*
■:•>:■ - -••■■■ • *WWBW»«TO
mm h
ik&
W*
;-y-rwy.' ->
A
Z» v J
sm
>
m
,/
sA
a\
#
&
*‘s*
C<»*
RED ROOF PAINT
High Grade Red Roof Paint. Give
your roof a coat of this paint. It
will be a vast improvement. At
Anthony Horderns'.
Sizes
Prices
1 gall, h gall. 1 qrt.
16/3 9 A 5/6
ŵ
STREET'S WHITE ANT
AND BORER CURE
A sure and safe remedy for the extermination
of these pests. It is in liquid form and may be
sprayed or brushed on to the infected parts.
Sizes
Prices
1 gall, i gall. £ gall. Pint
8/9 5/- 3/6 1/10
KILRAT BAITS
Certain death to rats. Rid your home, factory
or business premises of these kings of vermin.
Price, per tin 1/6
ẁ
ANTHONY HORDERNS
FAMOUS LOW PRICES
PHONE; M 2401 (DAY AND NIGHT)
BOX 2712 C, G.P.0., SYDNEY


* Thick foothill timber of the wiriest descrip-
tion.
BUNGALLY
By BRIAN JAMES.
TULLY spoke of the ragged space
in the dense, low scrub as “the
clearin’.”
He and the boys had taken the
grubbing contract—five acres of it, at
fourteen-ten an acre, with ten pounds
added for the trees that had invaded one
corner of the scrub. It wasn’t a high
price by any means, but times were hard.
It meant hard work, too, for that low
scrub was mostly bungally,* a cruelly
deceptive thing to the inexperienced.
Among it were wild fuchsia in plenty,
occasional iron trees and stubborn and
stunted grass trees, and many of the
plants that are typical of coast scrub on
the tops of sandstone ridges.
Tully had named the price. He was
a good man, he said, and knew all about
clearing. So he could afford to cut fine
the margin. Besides, his boys, Henry and
Dick, were out of work. It was really
for their sake that he took the contract
at all. Tully was like that —always doing
things for his boys. They were good
boys, he said —perhaps a bit raw to the
game, but willing to learn ; and he had
the experience to teach them. In addi-
tion, he had the boss’s nephew foisted
upon him, a sort of condition to secur-
ing the contract. That meant sharing
among four instead of three, but it would
shorten the time. Anyway, it was gener-
ous to give the nephew a job, and it was
like Tully to be philanthropic.
They pitched their camp on a rise just
off the clearing. A beautiful spot, as
Tully remarked many times in the first
day or two. Through breaks in the blood-
woods and stringybarks they caught sight
here and there of the Blue Mountains,
with an immensity of hazy space between
miles of wooded plain, a world in itself.
On clear mornings they could see the
farms on Kurrajong and the very trees
on Mt. Wilson; and the Main Divide
behind Jenolan would show in paler blue.
On clear nights the whole plain would
vanish and leave just the bright stars and
the twinkling lights of the mountain
towns.
For two days Tully said it was beau-
tiful, and then he appeared to forget all
about it. It took those two days for him
to discover what a wretched job that
bungally was. He had boasted at start-
ing that he would finish in a fortnight,
but the little ragged space demanded a
revised calculation. The scrub was mali-
cious. The few insignificant boughs
would come off almost at the touch, but
beneath the surface were gnarled roots,
hard as iron and as thick as a man's
thigh, branching into smaller roots as
thick as a man’s calf. They all bur-
rowed into the subsoil, clinging despe-
rately. Spud-bar mattock and lever had
to be applied endlessly to remove them.
It was outside Tully’s experience alto-
gether. He found himself somehow too
old to compete with the new enemy. The
scrub seemed to laugh at his efforts, jeer
at the little hole in the brush that repre-
sented days of toiling and moiling. It
mocked him at every turn. He who had
boasted of his prowess with big timber
was to be baffled and beaten by under-
brush! Yes, Tully was beaten. But he
told the boys that such scrub was only
boys’ work after all, and they might finish
it now. He would go on to the big timber
that had invaded the scrub. That was a
man’s work.
SO the boys had the bungally to them-
selves. They worked not the less
harder because Tully was at the far end
of the block. They were good boys. They
ached and sweated and groaned and blis-
tered ; they slogged in early and late and
drew what comfort they could from the
doubtful blessings of profanity. But the
days went by and grew longer and hotter
and drier; the ground grew harder; and
the bungally began to mock them, too.
The fortnight ended, and there was no
very appreciable impression made on the
scrub. It began to play tricks with their
vision, and the part still to be cleared
danced before them in a haze that blended
with the haze of the plain. A kind of
eternity with an endless and hopeless
struggle in it.
They varied the work, and tried softer-
looking patches. But they only looked
softer. They tried bigger levers ; they
burnt off the roots and rubbish to make
the grubbed portions look more encourag-
ing. It was hopeless. Then they spoke
to Fully, and begged him to throw it in.
They’d never make tucker, they said, on
the job ; they’d starve on it. But Tully
was afraid of the laws of contract.
Henry, the elder boy, broke out in
boils, big, painful boils. He grew quite
affectionate towards his boils, particu-
larly towards a livid specimen under his
arm. It grew septic, and his heart re-
joiced in the pain and danger of it. His
mother and the girls were at home alone.
It wasn’t right they should be alone, and
they should know about that boil and
have the chance of tending it. So Henry
went home and stayed there, sending re-
ports from time to time of new and more
terrible boils.
Dick became a morose savage. The
job was no longer work. All the zest a
man may feel, even in the hardest work,
had vanished. It was just gruelling exer-
tion that called no longer for volition.
He had been bred in the city, and the
heart to learn bush work was dead within
him. He dragged on, making the toil
twice as hard as it should have been, and
within him dully glowed a hatred of the
nephew and the bungally, of the district,
of his father and of all things that caught
his conscious eye. He looked much the
worse for wear. The clothes he had
brought were quite unsuited for the work.
At first he stitched and mended the rents,
then gave it up as useless. His only coat
he left too near a clearing fire, and a big
cinder fell on it. When he discovered the
mishap there were only two sleeves and
the collar left. Dick stamped out the
smouldering rag, swore in a mechanical
way, hung the tatters on a bush and sav-
agely attacked the next bungally. His
only trousers were sketches of what those
garments were originally intended to be.
The wearing of them was merely conces-
sion to habit; it would have been more
honest and no less decent to have dis-
carded them altogether. His face and
arms were black with soot and smoke,
caked with sweat and dirt; and as he
hung pendulumlike from the end of a
huge lever he looked like a sadly over-
done travesty of a half-civilised black-
fellow. Meantime he prayed for boils
or incapacitating sickness.
The nephew went at it more intelli-
gently, and with half of Dick’s effort did
twice as much effective work. The grub-
bing was hateful to him, too, but out of
it he got at least a malicious satisfaction,
for he had grown to hate the Tullys as
fervently as they hated him. He had a
secret and cynical delight in watching the
job beat them, and in knowing that the
boys must for ever lose faith in their
father; that he would live in their
memories as a hopeless old liar. Stupid,
petty hate, perhaps, but common enough.
AT the end of the third week the
nephew broke out in boils. It must
have been the food or the water. He was
foolishly proud of his boils —particularly
of a livid specimen that was far more
dangerous-looking than Henry’s best and
biggest—but he worked on as a silent
reproach to the absent Henry, and to old
Tully and Dick who had no boils at all.
Having demonstrated his fortitude in a
most aggravating way, he secretly chewed
cobbler’s wax and the boils vanished.
Then, from nowhere in particular,
Davie appeared.
He said “Good day!” and Tully said
“Good day!” Then he watched Tully
spit on his hands and make a special
effort on the trunk of a down white-gum
with his axe.
“You’re all wrong!” said Davie.
“Eh?” said Tully.
“You don’t know nothing about it!
Show me the axe.”
There was such a breezy, half-rogue,
half-honest good-natured air about this
gangling young man that Tully complied.
Davie took the axe, balanced it in his
hands and declared it was a very adjec-
tivally bad axe. “But still” And he
started chopping the big log, holding the
axe short, swinging effortlessly through
small arcs and smothering grunts the
while. The big chips flew and the log
parted. Tully knew the man was an
artist.
Davie put through two more chops,
levered the logs together for burning,
and walked over to a big bloodwood. He
circled it twice, “I’ll be over in the
morning to start,” he said. “That blood-
wood will cost you ten bob —follow the
roots and all. You do the cutting up.”
He left and, whistling very blithely,
moved over to the nephew and Dick. He
stood watching them for a while, and
then told them to stop and listen.
“I’m Davie,” he said, “and you know
nothing about your job. Not the first
thing about it! You’re nearly as bad as
that old fool over there.”
Filial pride was now dead in Dick, and
he didn’t dispute the insult.
“Give me that mattock!” said Davie.
“And watch!” He tore into the bung-
ally at a killing pace, throwing out roots
that appeared to leave the ground at his
touch. “That’s the way to get out bung-
ally! You chaps are mugs. I’ll be over
in the morning.”
He went off in long, awkward strides
that covered the ground amazingly, sing-
ing joyfully in a fine clear voice an
utterly disgraceful song.
He was back next morning very early,
bringing his worldly possessions in a
bushel case and a sugar-bag. Tully was
in doubt about employing him, but
Davie brushed doubt aside. “I’ll start
right now on the bloodwood. Ten bob
and follow the roots. You cut up. The
same goes for that white gum.”
Tully just nodded.
In less than five hours both trees were
down. It was marvellous. Tully would
have taken over a day with them. But
a pound for two trees was a bit too
much. Still, perhaps it was worth it for
the moral effect. Even the trees had
been mocking Tully of late.
Then Davie said that he would clear
half an acre for nine quid.
“Nine quid!” Tully gasped.
“Shut up! ” said Davie, “or it will cost
you a tenner.”
Tully gazed through the straggling
trees at the distant blue of the moun-
tains. “Well, now,” he said at last, “for
myself I wouldn’t hear of it. But for
the sake of the boys” ——
“Good-oh!” said Davie. “We’ll mark
out the half-acre now.”
DAVIE’S coming made a big differ-
ence, especially for the nephew. At
least for him life became more bearable,
and at night by the fire something like
cheerfulness was restored.
Davie worked like a demon on his
section —when he felt so inclined —and
the patch he cleared made a brave show.
But it was costing more than the
contract would pay. Tully brooded over
that now, and became more hopeless than
ever. The days grew hotter and drier,
and the work went more slowly. Tully
stepped out again and again the cleared
portions—it went in a face no longer —
and calculated distances, areas and times.
He would drop his hands to his sides as
he figured out how much the job would
return him. Then he would walk de-
jectedly to the camp to see how the
mutton was boiling in the kerosene-tin.
He would make a dozen trips to the fire
to look at the mutton. It didn’t help
the clearing at all.
In the sixth week the boss came along
to arrange for the ploughing. He was a
queer mixture of simple faith and low
cunning ; sympathetic and trusting, and
yet inclined to drive a hard bargain. He
expected the job to be finished, and he
was disappointed at the muddle. He
soon gathered how little Tully really
knew about clearing. He was genuinely
sorry for the old fellow, but he did feel
he shouldn’t lose through the foolish mis-
takes of others. However, it was im-
possible to let the job go on as it was.
There was barely more than tucker in it;
and the tucker was poor —eternal boiled
mutton, potatoes, bread, butter and
golden syrup. He asked Tully to give
a hand with straightening up the crooked
edge of the clearing so that an acre or
two at least could be ploughed.
Then there were tons of shapeless,
knotted roots to burn. All set to to gather
them ; tons and tons of them, and every
root represented drops of sweat and
strain of muscle and fervent profanity.
The white-hot flames consumed all in a
general purification.
That done, the boss asked Tully about
the floaters.
Tully just said “Floaters!” and sucked
at his moustache.
“Yes, floaters. All surface stone, you
know. You can’t plough properly with
them lying about.”
Tully said nothing, but his hands
clutched at his thighs.
“It’s in the contract,” said the boss.
“I never heard of it.” Tully spoke
like a martyr.
“Well, it’s in the contract, and the
stone has to be shifted.”
Tully’s shoulders drooped till he looked
ten years older. He just went off to the
camp to look at the mutton,- then he
went back to his trees. At dinnertime
the boss reminded him of the stone.
“Oh, yes,” said Tully, “the floaters.
Yes, of course. Come on, Dick. We’ll
get those floaters off.” . •
They dragged off some of the big flat
stones with a bag and dumped them on
the headland. There were not so many
of them after all. But at last Tally threw
down the bag. “That will be enough,
Dick. That will be enough! We are
being got at on all sides!”
“Yes, Father,” said Dick, and picked
up his mattock and went back to the
bungally. There seemed nothing in life
to Dick now beyond bungally,
CTOMETIME later Davie came to the
boss and said: “Watch out for old
Tully. He went mad just now and threw
all his tools into a fire, and then waltzed
in and kicked them out. Real cuckoo,
he is, and talking to himself. Couldn’t
make out what he said though.”
It sounded like Davie’s romancing, but
just then Tully appeared near a smoulder-
ing heap of roots. It had been a very
big fire, and the ring of coal and ash
covered a wide area. Tully walked to
the edge of the ring, and then away to
gather an armful of the small roots scat-
tered round. He lifted these above his
head and threw them savagely into the
centre. Then he rushed into the hot
coals and kicked them out again. He
danced around the fire and through it,
and kicked at the charred skulls of bung-
ally. At last he stopped and raised
clenched fists to the heavens, and the
floodgates of his wrath were broken.
He cursed the bungally and the land it
grew on, and the sky above it. He cursed
the boss and the damnable nephew. He
cursed Davie. He cursed himself for
taking the job, and Dick for helping him.
He cursed Henry for getting boils. He
cursed every soul that lived in such a
district. He cursed the blacks who once
owned the country, and he cursed the
ancestors of all concerned. It was a
great performance, especially so as Tully
had the reputation of being a religious 1
man.
The boss was really scared. There
was no telling what might happen next.
But the matter had to be settled. He
Went across to Tully. “Mr. Tully,” he
said*, “for God’s sake calm down!”
Tully, strange to say, did calm down.
“Now, what is the trouble?”
There was plenty; and Tully said so.
The contract, the bungally, the floaters,
the price, the tucker; everything. He
was losing money, and the longer he
stayed the more he would lose, and he’d
never have taken the job only for the
sake of the boys.
There was some argument on the
points raised, but the upshot of it all
was an agreement to let Tully off the
rest of the contract, and pay him pro
rata for what he had done. Tully
breathed like one who is reprieved on
the scaffold. But he would have to ask
the boys first, he said, just as a matter
of form, though it was hardly necessary.
The tape was run over the cleared
portions, and Tully was shocked to find
that these amounted to two and a half
acres. They measured them again to
make sure. But the result was the same.
Two and a half acres! And only just
two and a half acres! An arrangement
was come to about Davie’s half-acre.
Tully and Dick gathered their belong-
ings, and prepared to depart. Luckily
Dick had a long overcoat, or his
journey to town would have presented
new and interesting problems, although
Dick himself was past caring about any-
thing. Two acres of bungally rustled
crisply in the light evening breeze. There
almost seemed to be an air of triumph
about the bungally as it watched Tully
and Dick leaving.
To Earth.
Chain me not to men’s thoughts, anarchic star!
When I grow out of love with all desire,
Being dead, I would be free, as all men are
When they have burned away life’s ancient fire.
And when this guttered candle-end of dreams
Lies in the lantern skull without a spark,
I will my words to silence that redeems
And my dissolving body to the dark.
Bowed to your stone I draw a Druid strength
From pain; I must endure it and I can.
But weave me no ghost-tether when at length
My atoms are excused from being Man.
s.a.
J. HOLLOWAY.
For Bill.
Death had set his seal upon him:
A white and gentle look, a look resigned
(Unrebel like my own); and so I think of him
With charity, as someone always kind.
Is it Nature’s way _ . t
To slaughter those who fight not?
I am Troy,
And she shall have hef battle
Though it go
At last against me in the Trojan snow.
Meanwhile, O comrade, do I think of you
With praises, sweetness, having dared to face
A mightier Hector in a mightier place.
QUEENSLAND.
LLYWELYN.


The Bulletin
Vol. 64.—N0. 3308.
Wednesday, July 7, 1943.
THE THOUGHTS OF YOUTH ARE LONG, LONG THOUGHTS.
“A no-confidence-debate film in which the P.M. is the only speaker is going the rounds. An Opposition motion styling it contempt of Parliament was defeated."


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper
“Australia for the White Man”
Directors;
H. K. Prior J. E. Webb
P. H. Prior David Adams
HEAD OFFICE: 252 George Street, Sydney;
Box 2521 BB; 'Phone 87971
Victoria: Newspaper House, 247-249 Collins
Street, Melbourne.
Queensland: 239 Adelaide Street. Brisbane.
Westralia ; 33 Barrack Street. Perth.
New Zealand: Nathan’s Buildings (opp.
G.P.0.) Wellington.
London: 1 Hare Place. 47 Fleet Street,
London. E C. 4.
DISSOLVED. THANK GOD!
The tragic farce of the session at Can-
berra, in which, with a deadly sort of
appropriateness, Mr. Ward was the prin-
cipal performer —until it became impos-
sible for the most complaisant of man-
agers to let him go on hogging the lime-
light —has been played out. The Six-
teenth Parliament of the Commonwealth
is no more.
It had its first sitting on November 20,
1940, and its last on July 1, 1943.
Although its record is not all bad, so
many bad things were done and legis-
lative manners declined so seriously and
there was such a surrender of powers to
non-elected persons that it had forfeited
the confidence of the people long before
the end came. The Opposition Senators
regained credit for their Chamber by cor-
recting abuses proposed or perpetrated
by the Government in its weakness and
folly, in particular the outrageous effort
to empower the Taxation Department to
commandeer overpayments of income
tax ; and this vigorous assertion of Senate
rights, sacrificed to Government after
Government, augurs well for the Senate’s
future. But the very fact that it became
necessary shows how ill-served the nation
was by the House and by the very poor
lot on the Treasury benches.
Within 11 months there were three
Prime Ministers. Mr. Menzies had lost
Mr. Casey to Washington, and death in
a ’plane crash had robbed him of the
services of his Army Minister, his Air
Minister and one of his shrewdest ad-
visers, the Vice-President of the Execu-
tive Council. But for that fell stroke of
fate he might be Prime Minister still.
With Mr. Gullett returned for Henty, as
he would have been, the U.A.P.-U.C.P.
combination would have had one vote
more than Mr. Curtin’s party, and might
have placed Mr. Wilson in the Speaker’s
chair. There is nothing in that gentle-
man’s political history to suggest that he
would have refused a compliment offered
in such circumstances, especially as the
relations of his group with Victorian
Labor, finally broken off last year, were
beginning to cool. Or the House might
have had a Labor Speaker, as the Senate
has a Labor President, with that example
pleaded in justification.
As it was, Mr. Coles came in for Henty
as an Independent with U.A.P. support,
and, with Mr. Nairn appointed to suc-
ceed Colonel Bell as Speaker, the Gov-
ernment had only 35 votes on the floor
of the House against Labor’s 36 and
those of Mr. Coles and Mr. Wilson.
Mr. Coles was tractable enough for a
time. Far more occasion for worry was
given by a couple of Sydney U.A.P. mem-
bers, disciples of Mr. Hughes and of two
Sydney newspapers. These newspapers had
run what they called “outstanding candi-
dates” against Menzies men, and, though
failing ingloriously in that sturit, they had
by their hostility to Mr. Menzies and
Menzies men contributed to the loss of
N.S.W. seats which, if held, would have
made all the difference. The Ministry
had been further weakened by the resig-
nation of the firm and able Mr.
Cameron, entailed by his withdrawal
from the Country party, which he found
in a mulish frame of mind after its re-
verses in N. S. Wales and Queensland
constituencies, though for these he was
in no way to blame. In his dilemma Mr.
Menzies hit upon the unfortunate notion
of increasing the number of Ministers
from 16 to 19, and though, in the result,
several gentlemen found themselves with
imposing titles and staffs and nothing to
do except share in the salary pool, this
was presently seized upon as a precedent
by a party which has neVer been known
to reduce a tax or abolish a superfluous
job.
On the dead set made against Mr.
Menzies, and on his honorable efforts to
lorm a national Government, carried to
the point of offering to step down for
Mr. Curtin, it is unnecessary here to
dwell. Weary of contending with
“friends” who hadn’t even the merit of
being candid, and with newspaper foes
whose reasons for marking him down for
destruction are still obscure, he resigned
and was succeeded by Mr. Fadden. The
Fadden Government lasted two months ;
it was then outvoted on a quite good
Budget by the Labor party, Mr. Wilson
and Mr. Coles. The latter gentleman had
walked in and walked out of the U.A.P.
room. He had nothing to say against
the Budget, which indeed conformed to
his own published views, and he Voted
against it on no discoverable ground
other than that Mr. Fadden had formed
a Government without consulting “Me.”
Before Mr. Coles came along Henty had
never had a Labor member. It was to
learn that it had acquired one under
another name, which has in the process
of time become something special in the
way of barefaced political imposition.
Caucus, with the plum-tree at its dis-
posal, though the electors had refused it
a majority in either House, proceeded to
elect 19 Ministers. Some of those who
failed of election had already been placed
on Parliamentary committees. When the
distribution of plums was complete it
came out that only three of the 53 Labor
members were not Ministers, assistants
to Ministers, officers of the Senate, con-
trollers or members of committees (one
of the three was A.C.2, now Pilot-Officer,
Falstein), and they all had the right to
collect travelling expenses with, in certain
cases, fees at so much a day as well.
Geography and transport permitting, it
became possible for a gentleman from
Tasmania, Senator Lamp, to put in for
£6 14s. a day in addition to his salary of
£lOOO a year and free travel over all
Government railways and tramways.
Mr. Coles and Mr. McCall, one of the
anti-Menzies U.A.P. members, were put
on the Rationing Commission. It
appears from their statements that they
waived their claims to fees and travel-
ling expenses. That is small consolation
to the public which has had to put up
with their rationing performances. They
would have been overpaid for these exer-
tions with a peppercorn a year.
Only two of the 19 Ministers had had
any sort of Ministerial experience. Only
three had seen war at first hand —in two
cases the war against the Boers. Only
four could without gross flattery be
described as a bit more than f.a.q.
administrators, and the cleverest of
them has had astonishingly bad luck
with regulations issued from his
office. It would be unfair to blame
him for the failure of those
at which workstoppers have scoffed,
seeing that the workstoppers have been
egged on by an ill-conditioned and dis-
loyal colleague and that it is a “Labor
principle” that union bosses and mobs
can do no wrong ; but other regulations
have been flattened out by the Courts
time after time.
The rest of the Ministers, with no
noticeable exception, have proved square
pegs in round holes. The most notorious
specimen has devoted his energies to
preaching and practising hatred of wage-
payers, non-unionists, military officers
and, in general, the part of the nation
which has no use for Labor politics, and
were it now politically expedient, as he
thought it was when he furiously opposed
preparedness for this war, he would in-
dulge in ferocious denunciation of “the
British imperialists.” Most of the
others have contented themselves with
fawning on union bosses and mobs and
sheltering behind officials, who have been
thus encouraged to issue statements of
policy and to order people to do this and
that just as if they were commissars.
And, swarming into the field of finance
with, at best, the little learning that is
dangerous, and, at worst (which goes for
the majority), crass ignorance, this queer
crowd has made a mess of uniform
income taxation, its one good idea (and
that was borrowed), by being wildly
generous to State Labor Governments,
and has plunged heedlessly into a morass
of vast and chronic deficits, from which
the miasma of inflation already rises
menacingly.
And yet this odd collection of career-
ists, doctrinaires, neophytes, has-beens and
never-wassers has persuaded itself, and
expects the nation to believe, that it has
a positive genius for war in all its
aspects.
It claims credit for the transfor-
mation of the Commonwealth from a
peace basis to a war basis, for the aid
received from the United States and
Britain, which —asked for in terms from
which a squealing note was rarely absent
—was given to the Australian nation and
not to any section of it, and even for the
alleged acceptance of what it is pleased
to call its strategy. Only partisans and
half-wits could be taken in by these pre-
tensions. The nation should rather
judge the mob in office on its handling
of the food question, comparing its
wretched performance in this field with
the magnificent achievement of the Brit-
ish Government in infinitely worse cir-
cumstances, on its dealings with work-
stoppers and Communists, to whom in its
abasement it has given an open go, and
on its craven subservience to trade-union
and A.L.P. conferences. To eight A.L.P.
conferences it went for permission to in-
troduce the ignoble measure of national
service it proposed, with boundaries
which stop a long way south of the region
in which what was left of the Eighth Divi-
sion passed into captivity, and this un-
speakable procedure it “justified” on the
ground that “we are servants of the move-
ment.” Not the nation, “the movement”
—a minority.
First fruits of this extraordinary attempt
to run a war on “Labor principles”—in
this case, limited liability—are now ap-
pearing. If in the course of the present
offensive Nauru and other islands beyond
the “one hundred and fifty-ninth meri-
dian of east longitude” are attacked, and a
need for Australian reinforcements arises,
it will be unlawful to send militiamen.
In the general production of arma-
ments, giving the word its widest
significance, a great job has been done.
But the foundations were laid, the votes
passed, the organisers appointed, the staffs
engaged, the blueprints prepared in the
Menzies Government’s time. Not only
was everything then got ready for every-
thing that has come to pass, but war fac-
tories were producing on an impressive
scale.
With the war effort in general Mr.
Curtin himself expressed satisfaction on
Mr. Menzies’s return to Australia after
his visit to the troops in Palestine and
North Africa and to Britain and the
United States. Mr. Curtin said (May 28,
1941: “Hansard,” p. 25):
The war has been prosecuted to the
maximum of Australia’s capacity and I
doubt if any great improvements could have
been made upon what has been done by
the Government working in collaboration
with the Opposition I say frankly that
I have been in association with Ministers
who have given their maximum service to
the problems confronting Australia. The
Advisory War Council [he was a member]
and the Government have grappled with
problems in a way which I believe has . been
as satisfactory as was possible in the cir-
cumstances During the past four months
there has been a vigorous development of
the policy for which the Prime Minister
himself stands.
There was more on August 21, 1941,
(“Hansard,” p. 78.):
Vast as has been the effort which Aus-
tralia has made, in respect of certain essen-
tial parts of our equipment we are still
dependent upon imports [as we are still].
Yet so satisfactory have been our develop-
ment and our expansion that our collabor-
ators in this struggle are dependent upon
items that we can supply.
Mr. Curtin said that seven weeks before
he took office and 22 months before he
alleged, repeating Mr. Ward, that he had
found the Menzies-Fadden home-defence
plan “defeatist in outlook,” adding on his
own account “and in preparation.”
In February, 1942, there occurred at
Darwin the greatest destruction of life
and property that this continent has ever
experienced, and at Singapore the great-
est disaster that this nation —indeed, any
Dominion —has ever suffered. Of neither
tragedy have the people learned much
from the Labor Government, which, for
one thing, has had all the facts about
Darwin, collected for it in detail by a
Supreme Court Justice, for upwards of
a year, and neither was debated in the
sixteenth Parliament. Yet Parliament
should be, as it is in Britain, in Mr.
Churchill’s graphic words, the Grand
Inquest of the Nation. Of all the sins
of commission and omission of which the
sixteenth Parliament was guilty, its
neglect to debate Darwin, Malaya and
the A.I.F. campaign in Papua, while de-
voting days and weeks to the discussion
of small beer, was the most flagrant, and
the one least likely to be forgotten.
May God in His infinite mercy grant
us a better Parliament and a better
Government!
Labor and the A.I.F.
With an eye to the main election chance,
political Labor is currently most voluble
on defence—as it needs to be, in its own
defence. Except for the recent period
during which the force of events left no
choice, its record in all aspects of de-
fence, only too well documented over
more than quarter of a century, reeks to
heaven. Over that convicting stretch of
years the party’s defence attitude and
outlook have moved between open hos-
tility and extreme narrowness.
The narrowness of outlook is revealed
practically every time any member of the
party opens his mouth on defence. It
was expressed by Mr. Beasley during the
no-confidence debate in an attempt to
justify the recall of the A.I.F. from the
Middle East.
The Beasley effort was described by
“S. M. Herald’s” star writer as “the most
effective speech on the political plane
heard in this or several prior Parlia-
ments.” Actually it revealed not only
the party’s (and Mr. Beasley’s) narrow-
ness of defence outlook but also the lack
of military nous responsible for that out-
look, and perhaps only - to be expected
where personal military experience is at a
minimum. It can be interpreted to mean
that it would have made no difference to
Australia if Rommel had overrun the
whole Middle East, including the Suez
Canal. The palpable fact is that this
would have given the Axis Powers full
control of the Mediterranean and made
their defeat impossible. It would have
meant that the Axis forces in Europe
would have effected a junction with the
Axis forces in Asia. Then the war would
have been lost, and Australia with it.
Neither Mr. Beasley nor any of his
colleagues appears to be capable of grasp-
ing that, directly in Australia’s defence —
as directly as in Papua; as directly as if
the fighting had to be done inside Aus-
tralia —the A.I.F. divisions over in the
Middle East played a most important, if
not a decisive, part.
Addressing the political side which re-
created the A.1.F., and referring to
the Japs’ southward drive, he said
“You would have left 150,000 soldiers
abroad on distant battlefields.” There,
in a few words, is the full measure of
narrowness expressed. The New Zealand
Government had the same choice of
bringing its direct defenders back again,
and chose otherwise. With the reopen-
ing of the Mediterranean to Allied ship-
ping it has been justified magnificently.
With no sense whatever of the insult
implied, Mr. Beasley went on to assert
that if the Curtin Government had not
recalled the A.I.F. divisions “these men
would now be prisoners of war in
Burma.” Presumably Mr. Beasley did not
mean to imply that General Alexander,
who saved the small army in Burma and
planned the combinations which wrecked
the Axis army in North Africa, is an in-
competent commander or to suggest that
our Sixth and Seventh Divisions, which
had held and beaten the best that Rom-
mel could bring against them, would
have funked it if brought against the
Japs in Burma. He was merely the victim
of his own attempt to bolster his own
and his party’s fundamentally false de-
fence outlook with specious argument.
The same self-victimisation also led
Mr. Beasley on to a military faux pas
worthy of Mr. Ward himself. He de-
clared that in North Africa these A.I.F.
divisions “gained in desert fighting ex-
perience that was not suitable for the
kind of fighting they have been engaged
in in the islands of New Guinea and
other places.” If he had ever borne arms
he would have realised that battle train-
ing is battle training wherever it has been
undergone. And he must know that in
the main it was battle-wise A.I.F. men
from the Middle East who beat the Japs
in Papua.
Senator Wilson exposed the hollowness
and narrowness of “the most effective
speech on the political plane heard in
this or several prior Parliaments.” A
Ninth Division major in the Middle East
when the Curtin Government recalled the
A.1.F., with the proud distinction of wear-
ing a Tobruk color-patch, Senator Wilson
declared that the recall of the Ninth neces-
sitated “a complete reorganisation of the
Eighth Army,” and that the delay caused
had “enabled the Axis forces to build
up their strength.”
Because the Australians were withdrawn
the enemy was able to reinforce his
shattered forces and increase them from
25,000 to 250,000. Finally it took three
armies and attached troops to destroy those
forces.
Senator Wilson flayed “the most effec-
tive speech” on another ground directly
connected with political Labor’s narrow-
ness of defence outlook. He asserted
that not only did the Curtin Govern-
ment recall the Sixth and Seventh Divi-
sions, but also it did not send urgently-
needed reinforcements to the Ninth.
New Zealand, which has a decent Labor
Government, sent reinforcements. No Aus-
tralian reinforcements arrived in the Middle
East from January, 1942, to September,
1942. For the battle of El Alamein sick
. men and B-class men were reclassified and
put into the fight. I remember going to
detention barracks and giving men there
a chance to fight, so short were we of
men. I remember wounded in the hospitals
and their actual words were: “Can you get
me back to help my mates?” These men
knew how desperate the position was.
If those responsible for the failure to
send reinforcements heard that without
shuddering they must have cast-iron
hides. The worst part of it is that it is
nothing new. It happened in the last war,
directly because this same political party
which seeks special kudos for its defence
performance then took the leading part
in haranguing Australia into refusing the
war-worn and depleted A.I.F. urgently-
needed reinforcements by rejecting the
only means by which these could then
have been raised —conscription.
In the final volume of his history Dr.
C. E. W. Bean dealt severely with the
failure to reinforce the 1914-18 A.I.F. He
told of how the sadly reduced A.I.F. bat-
talions, “entering great battles with 300-
400 rifles, still attacked on fronts of 850-
1000 yards,” even on fronts up to a
mile ; “carrying parties could not be pro-
vided Vickers-gun crews could no
longer carry full loads of ammunition” ;
men “almost dazed from lack of sleep”
had to be ordered into the line; at Mont
St. Quentin “two tired battalions, 400
rifles in all, were ordered to attack by
night two objectives a mile away over
uneven country seamed by old
and completely unreconnoitred.” The
upshot of the failure to reinforce these
men was that units with splendid war
records had to be disbanded in order to
bring others up to some sort of strength,


and the outcome in turn of this disband-
ing was action of the men in the nature
of a revolt, not at all against further fight-
ing, but against their proud, ragged units
being broken up.
When the fighting again gets tough,
this disgraceful business of failure to re-
inforce sorely-tried troops might happen
again if the reinforcing or not reinforc-
ing of soldiers on battlefields north and
north-east of Australia depended on the
conception of defence adhered to and
acted on by Mr. Beasley’s party and
expressed by Mr. Beasley.
PLAIN ENGLISH
Our Organiser of Victory.
“Mr. Forde, now heavily disguised as a ruth-
less and efficient army administrator the
Bill Adams who saved the day.”
—That Fellow Menzies.
Mr. Forde reached Melbourne on June
26 and had a message to the nation
ready when the reporters called:
On all my tours of inspection throughout
Australia and to New Guinea during the
past 18 months I have observed a great
feeling of security amongst the Australian
people, a feeling that they have passed
from the critical days when an invasion ot
Australia might be expected at any time
to the present stage of comparative security.
Then why did this Minister do the dismal
Jeremiah act so often during the 18
months? Why did he disturb the great
feeling of security” with so many \t-you-
knew-what-vve-know utterances?
Why did he croak as recently as May 2
that Australia was “still in real danger
of attack”; that “if United Nations
strategy is not played correctly Australia
may be overrun” ; that “the Japanese
have recently increased their submarine
forces to a stage that is giving very
serious concern” ; that “attacks on ship-
ping off the Australian coast have in-
creased in recent weeks and anything
that endangers the shipping position is
most serious” ; that “these attacks are
further evidence of the constant danger
which hangs over Australia” ; that ‘ there
are more than 200,000 Japanese Army
personnel in the perimeter of islands ex-
tending from Timor to Rabaul” ; that
“there is no doubt the Japanese are con-
centrating tremendous forces of aircraft
on this front, the only front on which
they are concentrating on such a scale” ;
and, finally, that “the submarine activity
and the concentration of aircraft and
military personnel is conclusive evidence
that the Japanese are prepared to con-
tinue their policy of giving no quarter
in the South-west Pacific”?
Why did he change his tune completely
in less than eight weeks?
Because the elections are coming on,
comrade ; because the elections are com-
ing on! The elections are coming on,
'and it is necessary to present Mr. Curtin
as “the greatest Prime Minister in Aus-
tralian history” and to suggest with all
due modesty that he leaned heavily for
military guidance on the Carnot of Capri-
cornia, Rockhampton’s Chubbiest Son.
So away with melancholy! Sound the
loud timbrel o’er Moongan’s dark hill!
And remember who your saviours are —
the two Jacks, two Joes, Bert, Eddie,
Deddy and Frank —and vote the ticket!
From Behind the Lines.
Writn the Japs burst into New Guinea
a number of unobtrusive Australians,
some kiaps or patrol officers, decided to
remain behind as long as possible to
collect and pass out information useful to
their country.
As a rule, the native is a sensible fellow
who is kind to those who are kind to him.
The invasion gave bad specimens an
opportunity of taking to the bush ; and
bitter complaints have come out of the
kunai and jungle that they have taken to
practising local slavery and enforcing
their own laws. This is not good for the
Japs who are nearest to the revolution.
For the franchise of the rest of the
island populations there was a contest
between friend and enemy. In some
places the enemy has won, but the balance
is heavy on the Allied side ; for, instead
of cajoling the native population, the
enemy has usually tried to bully and en-
slave him, has frightened him and
generally played hob with his feelings.
Every native knows that it was the Jap
who brought the bombing, and, whatever
things Kaloa may be willing to forgive,
bombing is not one of them. And bomb-
ing to his untutored mind in the more out-
of-the-way spots where there is nobody
but Japs, who don’t speak pidgin to ex-
plain it, is all from the same source.
The Beau fighter is regarded as just as
much an evil inflicted by Tokyo as
anything with a Mitsubishi brand.
The Manus boys of the Admiralties
and most of the coastal natives of the
mainland have stood firm. In most areas
this is due to the personal influence of
Papuan and N.G. whites. Sometimes
loyalties have been determined by the an-
tagonisms of coastal and inland boys.
Sometimes isolated whites have suffered
local trouble, but only because of the
peculiar nature of the indigene. Such areas
as Talasea and Gasmata, in New Britain,
were among those in which this happened.
But the lads of Talasea and Gasmata
have always been the I.R.A. of the Bis-
marcks, and German, Australian, Jap
and Kong Kong have been to them the
same kind of pork from time imme-
morial.
If the Japs had won over the. native
the story of Papua and New Guinea
might have been different. As it is, in
New Guinea and neighboring islands
they are dealing with a mainly-hostile
population, and in respect of the move
into the Trobriands and the landing south
of Salamaua this is of no mean import-
ance.
They have infiltrated the islands —
slowly—but for the most part they have
not conquered them to the extent that
white men are debarred from moving
about around the fringes of Jap-“con-
trolled” villages and towns. Sometimes
these white men have themselves con-
trolled the natives of the villages, who
know and trust them.
A great story will some day be unfolded
about the work of these devoted men.
Some of them stayed in “Japanese-held'’
territory for 14 months after Rabaul was
captured by the enemy, and for a year
after he reached the New Guinea main-
land.
An Unsolved Problem.
Surveyed from N. S. Wales to Wales:
Coal being the lifeblood of iron- and steel-
works, armament factories, power plants, rail-
way transport and other essentials for making
war the Axis Powers have a distinct advantage
over the democracies in the struggle now enter-
ing upon its decisive phase, in Europe at least,
in that their coalminers work. They have got
to or they die, suddenly and horribly. In
favored cases there may be condemnation to the
living death of a concentration camp, but even
this ghastly alternative, possibly extended in
Germany to worn-out war veterans or the last
surviving male members of military families,
would almost certainly be refused to Czechs,
Poles, French, Belgians and slaves from other
occupied countries. .
There is nothing stranger or more sinister m
this war than that coalminers in English-speak-
ing countries, enjoying all the blessings or demo-
cratic government, should place themselves and
their fellow-citizens in peril of coming under a
rule which takes so frightful a form in their
own calling. Yet that would be the position in
at least two English-speaking countries it coal
strikes and stoppages were carried too tar.
The United States, Canada and Britain would
survive a lost war. Russia, with its immense
and prolific population, would come again. But
Australia and New Zealand would be erased
from the pages of history.
Strange and sinister also is the position that
coalminers take up in English-speaking countries
but nowhere else—that in war, as m peace, their
caprices as individuals and groups constitute
the supreme law. They arrogate to themselves
the “right” not only to refuse to work but
to prevent other men from working. None ot
the democracies has been free from selfish and
dangerous manifestations of this monstrous pre-
tension.
In New Zealand the one serious war strike has
been a coal strike. In Britain, though other
factors have operated and the miners have on
the whole been less intractable than elsewhere,
stoppages and absenteeism have contributed to
a position where the country is not getting the
coal it needs for its great war effort and lor
the 1943-44 winter. In Australia, since Japan
became’ a deadly threat to it, there has been
a wilful and wanton production-loss of coal
running into millions ot tons, and pleas, warn-
ings and threats, expressed in a forest of regu-
lations (neutralised by Mr. Ward, whose “argu-
ment,” as Minister of Labor, is that the miner
is always right), have been of no avail. And
the U.S.A. is going through the very same ex-
perience, with results which are not only in-
jurious to the country and its allies, increasingly
dependent on the great Republic, but may wreck
the President’s chances of getting a fourth term.
Yet, as Mr. Roosevelt pointed out in an
address to the nation on May 2, “after Pearl
Harbor the president of the United Mine
Workers was a party to a positive assurance
given by the great labor organisations that there
would be no strikes as long as the war lasted.”
He reminded the miners that they had “sons
who, at this very minute, may be fighting in
New Guinea or the Aleutians or Guadalcanal or
Tunisia or China or protecting troopships and
supplies on the high seas.” He said he had
“received telegrams from some of our fighting
men overseas; and 1 only wish I could tell you
what they think of the stoppage of work in the
coalmines.” But he told them he had tried
“conciliation and mediation,” had invoked the
law, as represented by the War Labor Board,
and had as a last resort ordered the Stars and
Stripes to be flown over the coalmines. So
far all his measures have been fruitless.
Coalmining unions throughout the democ-
racies have been white-anted by Communism,
and irt many districts are under Communist
control. That Communist agitation should
produce anarchic behavior is not so strange as
it may seem. In any case, its influence for
evil on undisciplined minds has gone too deep
to be affected by a somersault.
American and Australian coalminers get more
wages for less work than their congeners in
any part of the world. The greatest injury
that could be inflicted upon them would be to
put them on Russian pay and conditions. They
talk much of “the new order,” but the one that
is most likely to happen in their case, if we
come out of the war victorious, will place it
for ever beyond their power to hold up indus-
try and imperil the existence of the nation
whenever they choose. This could be done by
making a period of service in the coalmines
part of the education of youth for citizenship
in a new world that will need to be brave, and
nowhere more than in our two outposts of the
white race. Of course this would bring about
the greatest of all coal strikes, but they would
be the last.
A Job Waiting.
A.B.C. is suffering a sea-change or some-
thing. On 8/6/’43 the “Daily Mirror,”
Sydney, reported that a “comprehensive
reorganisation” was under way, and it
mentioned an intention by A.B.C. to
dispense with its own news-gathering
service and buy news from Australian
Associated Press.
The paper had to admit that neither
Chairman Cleary nor General Manager
Moses would discuss these matters. But
it held that Federal Labor was opposed
to the news move and insisted that “re-
organisation” was in hand when Mr.
Moses was recalled from the A.1.F.,
adding:
One of Mr. Moses’s first moves was to
create the position of Controller of Public
Relations and to recommend the appoint-
ment of Mr. S. H. Deamer, who is now
chief administrator of the news and talks
department and editor of “A.B.C. Weekly.
Other changes include the new posts of
Controller of Programmes and Controller
of Administration, to be filled by Dr.
Keith Barry and Mr. A. L. Holman re-
spectively.
So far, there has been no denial from
A.B.C. about the appointments, and
critics among listeners are very naturally
asking questions. There is not only a
feeling that A.B.C. heads are doing par-
ticularly well in these hard times but that
the concern is doing things irrespective
of listeners’ wishes ; and there must be
somewhere about li million listeners in
this country now.
Recently the news services were cut
down. To a great many people the 7 p.m.
and 7.45 a.m. news is important, and
they’re not pleased that evening news has
been cut in order to increase jazz time.
Apparently the Commission acted on a
high military suggestion that there was
need for “bright, fast-moving radio pro-
grammes” in camps, but there must also
be a need for home news to troops at
battle stations.
The countryman, wherever he is, never
loses his interest in the seasons, the
crops, the shearing, the lambing; but
A.B.C. seems never to have realised that
it has a continent to cover rather than a
few suburbs. This was noticed by the
Committee of Inquiry, which remarked
on the
rapid growth of the central staff; the con-
siderable number of, and increase in, what
may be termed central directors of depart-
ments; the fact that the salaries of a
number of these central officers exceed
those of A.B.C. State managers in S.A.,
W.A., Queensland and Tasmania; the in-
crease in national and the decrease in
regional programmes, even over the second
national stations of various States.
There was more on the same subject, but
the latest appointments suggest that the
centralisation policy has full steam up.
Meantime it has come out that A.B.C.
is subordinate to the Secretary of the
Department of Information when that
official chooses to order broadcasts (in
one case “a party political talk on a bill
being debated in Parliament”), but can
refuse to put the P.M. on the air, even
when he speaks to the United States.
Also, there is “A.B.C. Weekly,” which,
despite a change in format, is still
apparently losing £30,000 or so a year of
listeners’ money.
The trouble seems to be that the Com-
mission was established and is operating
on no recognisable set of principles.
OUR BURLINGTON BERTIE.
“Dr. Evatt accompanied Mr. Churchill to the Guildhall....was extolled by Mr. Brendan Bracken....
had separate audiences with the King and Queen," etc., etc.
I’m Burlington Bertie, Their sentiments shock me,
Prepared to get shirty Them somersaults rock me,
With Coms. who refuse to buzz off. Since Winnie proclaimed me a toft!


4C&
PUBLIC TRUSTEE
Acts As
Trustee, Executor,
Administrator, Agent
or Attorney,
Under STATE GUARANTEE.
Absolute Security.
Estates efficiently and
economically managed.
WRITE OR CALL FOR
FREE BOOKLET.
19 O’Connell St. (Box 7A, G.P.0.),
Sydney.
W. B. Gcddes, Public Trustee.
Agents
AROMATIC
«
M. Moss & Co. Pty. Ltd,
SYDNEY.
I
IN'
Promote new growth with McMahon's
Hair Restorer . . . easy to apply,
economical and pleasant to use. Mc-
Mahon's Hair Restorer is quickly effec-
tive in cases of falling hair, baldness,
alopecia patches, scalp dryness. _ Ex-
cellent for dandruff, which goes in a
few applications. Harmless to the
most delicate skin. Use McMahon's,
too, for keeping the hair lustrous and
soft.
Obtainable from Chemists, Hair-
dressers and Stores.
Wholesale: Craig & Altken Pty. Ltd.,
Sydney.
HAIR RESTORER
POLITICAL POINTS
When the sixteenth Commonwealth
Parliament entered upon its last session
three Westralians were its principal offi-
cers: Naira (Speaker), Prowse (Chair-
man of Committees in the Reps.) and
Cunningham (President of the Senate).
Before it was dissolved a fortnight later
Nairn and Prowse had resigned and Cun-
ningham was on his deathbed at Albury
(N.S.W.). Cunningham’s passing is re-
gretted by opponents as well as friends,
for he was a good-natured, fair-minded
fellow who had not been soured by a
hard life. Labor will miss him for more
than personal reasons, since he was to
have led its Senate team in the West.
Towards the end of the proceedings at
Canberra, Ward was worried as well as
nasty. Objecting to the terms of refer-
ence of his missing-document charge to
Justice Lowe, as royal commissioner,
he had a brush with his own leader,
who said, with some asperity, he had
at no time believed that a document
was missing. Ward thereupon mumbled
something about a royal commission
being unnecessary, though, in his own
argot, he had “asked for” it. Lang, in
his paper the “Century,” once more in
circulation, morosely suggested that
Curtin was about to ditch Eddie as
member as well as Minister. Meanwhile
Maurice Blackburn, by contending that
a royal commissioner had no power to
extract information from a Minister of
the Crown on matters touching his work
as Minister, had prepared a way out for
Mr. Ward.
Sydney political columns convey the
impression that the election is all over
bar the votes of thanks to the returning
officers. Labor, it seems, is sure to hold
its 36 seats in the Reps, and gain a lot
more, at least ten Opposition members
being shaky. Very little is said about
the Senate, 14 of the 19 Opposition Sena-
tors not having to face the electors, but
it is rather suggested that Labor will
somehow pull off a majority in that
House, too, though its chance of doing
so is as remote as Mt. Erebus, In point
of fact, because of its concentrated vote
and its bent for tearing itself to pieces
(faction fighting is once more in evidence
in N. S. Wales and Victoria), Curtin’s
party has never won two consecutive
House of Reps, elections, and since 1914
it has only been on top once.
South of a line from Rockhampton to
the Exmouth Gulf the brownout has been
lifted, but not the Brownout Ministers,
Lazzarini (Commonwealth) and Heffron
(N.S.W.). They and their staffs remain
on the taxpayers’ backs.
From Melbourne “Age”;
The Federal Commerce Department ex-
plained yesterday that the rural assistant-
director of the Department of War Organi-
sation of Industry would serve as a member
of the agricultural planning committee
established under the Commonwealth Food
Controller.
Perhaps, after all, Pooh-Bah did better.
He was all those things and many others
all in the one person, so at least he knew
where they all were at a given moment.
Pressure on General MacArthur to
accept nomination for the Presidency is
becoming terrific. A poll of Republican
Ms.H.R. placed him second, with 33
votes, to Dewey (41); Bricker, of Ohio,
got 32 and Willkie 13. Dewey is bound
by an express election pledge, several
times repeated, to see out his term as
Governor of New York, which will take
him to the end of 1946. Mac Arthur has
disclaimed Presidential ambitions, but not
in such terms as to preclude his respond-
ing to a call from the Republican
National Convention.
The Americans have shown a partiality
for soldiers in the White House when
there were good ones to pick. Washington
was their first choice ; Andrew Jackson
was elected on the score of his military
prowess, and so was Zachary Taylor, a
few months after the last of his vic-
torious soldiers left Mexico. Taylor was
then just on 65, a little older than
MacArthur will be if a candidate next
year. Had an election been constitution-
ally possible when Lincoln was assas-
sinated, Grant would indisputably have
been the choice of the people then, in-
stead of having to wait until the erratic
Johnson completed his period as substi-
tute. Between Grant, who had two
terms, and the young Theodore Roose-
velt, all the Presidents, except Cleveland,
were Civil War veterans.
Sydney political writers who are
allowed to dish up Labor stuff in airy
contempt of the Policy of the Paper (if
the paper has a policy) don’t stick at
trifles. Witness the assertion, attri-
buted to “Labor circles,” that “in the
last war Colonel Ozanne, then Labor
M.H.R. for Corio, was opposed by a
Nationalist candidate and lost his seat,
though wounded and in hospital in
France at the time of the election.” Seem-
ingly it was too much trouble to get the
truth about “Colonel” Ozanne from the
Commonwealth Parliamentary Hand-
book :
Enlisted at Geelong, March 7, 1916: em-
barked as company quartermaster-sergeant
with 22nd Army Service Corps, June 3,
1916; invalided to Australia, March 15,
1917.
The election took place on May 5, 1917.
The “colonel’s” opponent, who beat him
again in 1919 and was to hold the seat
till 1929, was a 1914 volunteer who had
had 22 months’ service with a field-ambu-
lance unit.
Uncabled extract from a Dorothy
Thompson article (N.Y. “Post”):
Hitler is forming new armies out of such
eastern European peoples as he can com-
mand. Recently it became known that a
captured Red Army general is recruiting an
army of Ukrainians from the territory occu-
pied by the Germans.
There have been other American news-
paper references to this Red Army
general, and Polish propagandists have
been prompt to point out, quoting Sir
John Anderson as witness, that there is
no known Polish Quisling.
Dr. Evatt, in a broadcast to the British:
We in Australia will never forget what
you did in 1940. Then, but for Empire
support, you stood alone. With Europe
already under the tyrant, you saved not
only every British dominion but the
Americas as well. You are steadily increas-
ing the debt the world owes you for what
you did then.
True, every word ; but why don’t these
Australian Labor politicians say these
things sometimes in their own country?
Tackled on the latest rationing muddle,
which led to a clumsy effort to make
confusion less confounded. Senator
Keane blurted out that “the intention to
ration manchester goods became known
through a leakage of information.” There
have been other leakages of infor-
mation, particularly in respect of raids
on “sports” and other idlers, and in no
case have the guilty being traced and
punished. A sure sign of weak adminis-
tration, to say the least. In countries
with strong Governments —for example,
Britain—such things don’t happen.
Churchill himself must realise that the
March speech in which he foreshadowed
“a partial demobilisation” after the
defeat of Hitler, together with great gar-
rison, food-supply and pacification jobs in
Europe, “while the war with Japan will
still be raging” was unfortunate. In two
subsequent speeches he spoke in a totally
different strain. At the Guildhall a week
ago, when he received the freedom of the
City of London and rose to the occasion
oratorically, he said “Should victory
against Germany and Italy be achieved
before Japan is laid low, every man, ship
and aeroplane that can be moved to the
Pacific will be sent and maintained in
action for as many years as are needed
to make the Japanese submit or bite the
dust.” It can now be fully accepted that
that is the programme, and it shouldn’t
take “many years” if pressure is applied
in the right quarter.
Makin has lapses into fairness, as was
shown when he praised 8.H.P., but in the
no-confidence debate he joined the hue
and cry against the Menzies-Fadden
effort on the home front. Unfortunately
there came out in the same week young
Hetherington’s story of a tour of muni-
tion works in Makin’s State, with Makin
showing him round. It was a glowing
account of great things accomplished in
the Menzies-Fadden time.
In his early days as Gunbower’s
M. Martin fell out with Dunstan.
Now he is one of Dunstan’s Ministers,
the Cockies having sensibly decided that
they can no longer afford the luxury of
fights in the family. Dunstan, meeting
his Parliament, presented an innocuous
programme (not a word in it about redis-
tribution) and secured supply for two
months and an adjournment for three
weeks. That will give him time to decide
whether he will go into Commonwealth
politics—as he should.
Though Dunstan protests that uniform
income taxation has “discriminated
against Victoria to the extent of four
millions a year,” he admits that “the bud-
getary position is quite satisfactory.” In
N. S. Wales and Queensland it is more
than “satisfactory” for the State Labor
Governments, which for the first time in
Labor history have heaps more money
than they know what to do with. In the
Commonwealth, partly because a Labor
Government was foolishly generous, it is
about as bad as it can be.
Clive Evatt, the Sydney Minister for
Education, is full of fight about the uni-
versity quota system: “I shall not relax
my efforts until justice has been done to
young Australians whose legitimate ambi-
tions are now being so arbitrarily
thwarted.” Somebody ought to ask the
gentleman his opinion of the thousand
strikers at a Sydney war factory who are
illegally thwarting the legitimate ambi-
tions of 10 Australians who want to do
war work without being subjected to the
tyranny of union bosses and mobs.
“Misadventure” was the verdict on the
dreadful level-crossing smash at Wodonga
(Vic.) on May 8, when a light engine
crashed into a bus, and 23 soldiers, a ser-
vice woman and the driver were killed.
The coroner added that overcrowding of
the bus was a contributing factor and said
an adequate warning device should be
installed at the crossing. He should have
said “at all level crossings.”
After the Anglican and Catholic Arch-
bishops of Sydney issued a joint state-
ment condemning Nazism, Fascism, Com-
munism and any other “ism” which
stands for absolute domination of a
people by a political group, Bishop Burg-
mann, of Goulburn, was heard bleating
that “it is a thousand pities that the
archbishops did not make clear what
they meant by Communism”:
If they mean atheist Communism no
Christian will object....lf they mean the
Communism that is associated with the
Soviet Union then s irely they should
have expressed themselves clearly.
So the good bishop believes there are
various brands of Communism. He
should consult Odette Keun, the Dutch
writer, who puts it:
You can believe in the Soviet system
or in the western tradition, but not in
both.
Take your choice, Doctor!
A Canberra statement has it that a Mr.
Murphy will, under new regulations,
direct farmers as to what they shall or
shall not grow, how much and when, and
will have power to prohibit, regulate or
restrict processing, distribution and con-
sumption of food. Is Mr. Murphy a
Minister? No, a public servant.
Strange comment in London “Star”:
On the Australian side no public man
has done more to restore the old cordiality
to Anglo-Commonwealth relations than
P/' Evatt. Between them, Dr. Evatt and
Mr. Churchill have removed a danger to
Empire unity.
What danger?
A Sydney “Sun” correspondent com-
plains that “with vegetables, fruit, meat
and clothing at such outrageous prices, £1
goes nowhere. ’ Mr. Badly is doing his
best to see that it goes to a safe address
—a bookie’s bag.
The usual nark has arisen to ask
whether, in applying to his tobacconist
for a share of the 15 p.c. increase in
tobacco and cigarette supplies promised
to electors by Senator Keane, he should
produce his union ticket.
In Melbourne City Court, Judge
Magennis, upholding an appeal against
a conviction and fine arising out of the
prices regulations, complained that he
had “spent a terrible night” trying to
understand the regulations and that they
were “the worst he had ever seen.”
There are thousands more regulations his
Honor hasn’t seen.
Having twice had the matter of the
10 non-unionists at a Sydney war fac-
tory referred back to his Government by
Judge O’Mara, Curtin announced that
Commonwealth investigation officers
would look into the strike. One of the
women non-unionists has informed the
press that the investigation officers closely,
questioned her and seemed to be trying
to find out whether the 10 had legal
advice, what it was costing them and
whether the employers were paying for it.
It’s a queer way of “investigating” an
illegality to question the only persons
acting legally, but presumably it’s the
Federal Labor way.
Sentencing a two-legged animal at
Wanganui (M.L.), Myers, C.J., added
some acid comment:
Ymi are at liberty to rejoice in the re-
flection that the law shows much more ten-
derness and sympathy for you than you
showed the poor, unfortunate elderly blind
woman you almost throttled and th£n
attempted to ravish.
The punishment for this crime used to
be 10 years with a flogging. M.L. Labor,
like its Australian counterpart, considered
such sentences too savage, and so the
animal will be uncaged again in five years.


X
EXB4-42
Let’s Coll a Halt on Thoughtless Buying
If the way you buy gives comfort to the Axis, it’s time to call a halt. Buy only
when you must and buy only longer-lasting things . . . for long, hard service. In
this way, you help Australia’s war effort.
Hxlbc BATTERIES
Still Keep Going When the Rest Have Stopped
Let this be Your
Wartime Slogan.
PERSONAL ITEMS
Just retired with the rank of lieutenant-
colonel, after 33 years in the permanent
forces, Major J. J. Raisbeck, the man
responsible for the Commonwealth mili-
tary survey map system. He joined the
Royal Australian Engineers in 1910, and
Monash that year had the prescience to
direct him to make the first military sur-
vey map of Australia. There were no
’planes to take aerial photos, in those
days, and Raisbeck had to cover
thousands of arduous miles by foot, bike
and packhorse. Yet he was able to cast
a bird’s-eye on the Commonwealth to
such effect that his maps subsequently
drew the comment from the British War
Office that they were equal to the world’s
best.
Ended his long reign (20 years) as presi-
dent of the Vic. Leg. Council, Frank
Clarke, son of the late Sir William, Bart.
One of the most cultured Parliamen-
tarians in Victoria, he’s a member of the
Felton Bequest Art Committee, but his
chief pet is the Botanic Gardens. His In
the Botanic Gardens (no more charming
book on gardens has been written in
Australia) has helped to keep the plan of
Guilfoyle more or less immune from the
hand of departments intent on turning
the finest park in the Commonwealth into
a laboratory for horticulture. The ex-
president’s successor is Clifden Hfenry
Andrews Eager, K.C., M.L.C. for East
Yarra and unofficial leader of the Leg.
Council since 1937. Eager is the son of
a Congregational parson* who came from
Dublin.
Reported missing, believed died of
wounds, Lt. Duncan Campbell Menzies,
son of councillor-lawyer Duncan Men-
zies, of Adelaide. Born at Clare (S.A.),
Lieut. Menzies was educated at St. Peter’s
and Adelaide Uni., where he gained his
LL.B. and the 1939 Rhodes scholarship
at 19, becoming B.A. at Oxford in 1940.
He joined the Black Watch as private,
was commissioned and, wounded at
Tobruk, was later sent to India. In his
Uni. days he played inter-State lacrosse.
Duncan Menzies has had the unusual
honor of a special motion by Adelaide
City Council, of which his father is a
member. He had enlisted with a declared
intention of going into public affairs
later, and had shown such brilliance at
Adelaide Uni. that the City Council has
recorded its belief that he “would prob-
ably have become one of the leading
citizens of the State.”
When Wing-Commander C. R. Cald-
well was last in Sydney the name of the
Canadian ace Beurling cropped up.
Young Beurling has some 29 enemy
’planes to his credit, mostly bagged round
about Malta. Laymen credit this sort of
performance to good piloting. Caldwell’s
view of it: “He must be a damn’ good
shot!” The Australian, who has once
more been showing the quality of his
own shooting in Spitfires v. Zeros
up north, made himself a crack shot
potting at ’plane shadows on the African
desert. In the recent clash with raiding
Japs he brought his fine tally up to
every one of them verified by others. At
that it doesn’t include either of two
bombers he attacked in his latest scrap,
though other pilots reported having seen
one of the bombers drop out of forma-
tion with both its engines on fire. If
there’s one thing equal to good shooting
that Caldwell believes in it’s a Spitfire,
which he rates above all comers.
Past the 90th milestone and going great
guns, F. W. Were, who years ago col-
lected a Danish knighthood when he was
Consul for somewhere about half the
world. His twin brothers, Bonny and
Brooking, are 88. Clive, a son of F.W.,
lost his life on Gallipoli; another son,
Hugh, who also did his bit in the last
scrap, was the last Were to be in J. B.
Were and Son —he prefers growing fine
wool at Hamilton (Vic.) to any sort of
office job.
Enthusiasm for the saltbush country
and its people and a desire to help them
come natural to A. A. Britton, new Com-
missioner for Western Lands in N.S.W.,
vice T. W. Irish, retired. Born near
Cobar, the son of a small selector,
Britton has had over 30 years in land
administration, interrupted by four years
of war, first with the 12th Light Horse,
then with the Aus. Flying Corps. With
the Commission he served nine years as
Victorian Supreme Court JUSTICE
LOWE, investigating the Ward “missing
document’’ allegation.
chairman of Western Land Board, and
with G. C. Connelly, of N.S.W. Lands
Department, he edited the revised edition
of the standard textbook on N.S.W.
Crown lands, written by Brierly and
Irish.
In the reshuffle in the Western Lands
Commission, Sydney Smith, who managed
the Australian Test teams to England in
1921 and 1926 and was former secretary
of the Stock and Brands Branch in the
Department of Agriculture, retires from
his Land Board chairmanship after 41
years’ public service, and will be suc-
ceeded by G. L. Shealfe, Western Divi-
sion surveyor, who worked on the topo-
graphical survey of Canberra under
Scrivener, and was stationed in the Armi-
dale, Dubbo and Wagga districts. Sheaffe
had three years with the old A.I.F. P. F.
Ruthven, who becomes Western Land
Board chairman, vice A. A. Britton,
began as a cadet in the Armidale Lands
Office and enlisted from there in 1915.
A wound at Mouquet Farm ended his
fighting, since when he’s been at head
office. An old “Joey’s” boy, he played
Rugby Union for the State in 1903-04-05.
An authentic Shakspearean:
Spoken his last lines at Ballarat at 75, that
staunch Shakspearean William Lockhart.
Coming from England 25 years ago, he ap-
peared for a while in J.C.W. productions, but
the Bard was in his blood and for seven years
he shared the fortunes and misfortunes of
Allan Wilkie. To hear him declaiming the lines
of Quince, Dogberry, Capulet or Gloster was
to listen to the voice of a tradition that prob-
ably goes back to the Swan of Avon’s own
time. Once, at a rehearsal, he was asked why
he didn’t speak his lines in a more natural
manner. “Natural, natural!” he retorted.
“Shakspeare is superior to Nature!”
Diggers who happen to have got them-
selves into a spot of bother can be con-
fident about getting a fair hearing from
Colonel G. F. Murphy, now looking into
the running of detention barracks and
military prisons to make sure that every-
one in them gets humane treatment.
C.M.G., D.S.O. and bar, Col. Murphy
was N.S.W. Comptroller-General of
Prisons in civvy life, as well as holding
the posts of State Sheriff and Deputy Mar-
shal of the High Court. His main out-
look on Diggers who get into trouble is
that an ounce of prevention is worth a
ton of cure. Acting on this, he did a
good provost job in the Middle East and
Greece.
Harborsiders whose memory goes back
to a more rugged age can probably recall
Leaf’s four-horse buses, in which pas-
sengers used to be shaken down to Mc-
Mahon’s Point, and they may remember
a lively, youthful, bell-puncher member of
the firm. The bell-puncher is R. H. Leaf,
manager of Sydney Glacarium, the ice-
skating rink over from Central station,
which lately had a 37th birthday, having
from time to time seen other concerns
start in the same line and do a freeze.
A.I.F. in the last war. Leaf used to play
both Rugby Union and cricket with
North, For the past 10 years he’s been
keeping the ice good and hard, which is
maybe why he himself hasn’t learnt the
art. These days and nights the Glade is
largely populated by those in uniform,
with’plenty in Mr. Pickwick’s class, but
also a good sprinkling of surprise packets
—a corporal who lately put on a dazzling
show there is an open champ, back home
in America.
Labor loses a Senator and Senate its
President:
Collapsing at Canberra in the last week of
the Sixteenth Parliament, Jim Cunningham in-
sisted on making his way back to W.A., though
a very sick man. He became worse on the
way, had to call it a day and go to hospital
at Albury, and died there on Sunday night.
He had had long experience in Westralian poli-
tics (both Houses) before getting to Canberra.
Two years ago he became President of the
Senate, the first Labor man in the job since
the distant day when Cunningham himself first
started in politics. That was back in 1916,
when he went into the W.A. Legislative Council
from the job of Miners’ Union secretary at
Kalgoorlie. He remained in W.A. politics till
seven years back, when he tried farming at
Mullewa on a holding taken up by his father;
from the farm Jim Cunningham and a brother
in their vigorous youth manhandled a truck
laden with their possessions and tucker all the
way to the eastern goldfields. Sixty-eight at the
end.
The Jessie Mackay Memorial Com-
petition Poem, 1942, has been won by
Richard Pattison, of Havelock North, a
student at Auckland Uni., aged 17. There
were 100 entries. Pattison also won the
Stuckey Memorial Prize for English.
The judge of the Jessie Mackay Com-
petition, Alan Mulgan, said the standard
of the poems submitted was very high.
Varying its conductors, A.B.C. brought
Ernest J. Roberts from Perth to direct
the third concert of its current series at
Melbourne Town Hall. Born at Bir-
mingham (Eng.) in 1883, Roberts took to
the violin. He worked up from 50th to
violin at Co vent Garden and played
there and with the London Philharmonic
under most of the famous conductors for
six years. He was with the Carl Rosa
and Quinlan opera cos., toured Europe
and the U.S.A., served with the R.F.C.
in the last war and in 1919 conducted
symphony concerts at Cairo and Alex-
Conductor from Perth,
andria. In Australia soon after he was
with J.C.W. for a while and then joined
A.B.C. He has been musical director
and leader of A.B.C.’s Perth orchestra
for several years. Roberts was fiddling at
Covent Garden when Nellie Melba sang
there.
John Cowan, who announces at 77 his
retirement next year from S.A. Leg.
Council, has held a Southern District seat
since 1910, his 33 years being said to
be a State record in politics. He has been
a quiet but useful member. Minister for
Agriculture under Harwell and Butler in
turn, with about 26 years as Liberal and
Country Whip in the Leg. Council.
Malaria hit an authority on medical
matters when it lately sent Dr. Brian G.
Maegraith back to England from the
Middle East. The former Australian
Rhodes scholar, Dean of the Faculty of
Medicine at Oxford, has been the British
Army’s senior medico in North Africa.
Up to Dunkirk he commanded mobile
R.A.M.C. units in France. One brother,
Captain Harry Maegraith, of the Royal
Tank Regiment, was killed in the Libya
fighting ; another brother, Captain Hugh
Maegraith, M.C., has seen service with
both A.I.Fs. Now 37, Dr. Maegraith was
Oxford’s Dean of Medicine at 30, the
youngest ever to hold the post.
Had a letter the other day from
General Alexander telling him of his
“mention” in dispatches, Capt. Harold
Graham, who before enlisting captained
the surf lads at Coff’s Harbor (N.S.W.).
He went away as a lieut. with the 2/13th
Batt. and collected his extra pip in the
siege of Tobruk, where he was recom-
mended for the M.C.
M.L. poet and writer Eileen Duggan,
0.8. E., M.A., has been awarded an
Honorary Fellowship of the Royal
Society of Literature. The Marquess of
Crewe (president of the society) informed
Miss Duggan that her outstanding contri-
bution to Empire literature had won her
the distinction.
Into the silence:
Word comes from England of the passing
there some months ago of Mrs. A. Gladys
Kernot, who wrote verse occasionally for The
Bulletin and was one of the old “Triad’s”
best verse writers.
At 65, Harold Bivins, who when Fritz Hart
went to direct Honolulu’s Symphony Orchestra
took up the baton at the Melbourne Conser-
vatorium. One of the best-known and best-
liked of Australian musicians, as pianist,
director, examiner and teacher, Elvins was
chairman of the Music Council of Australia
and president of the Association of Music
Teachers. As an accompanist he toured
Europe and, he figured in every Australian
State’s examinations. Campbell’s Creek, near
Castlemaine, was his birthplace, and he was
educated at Wesley College and the Marshall
Hall Conservatorium.
At Tauranga (M.L.), medico Arthur Hamilton
Tovey, who landed in M.L. in 1909, left in
1914 to join the R.A.M.C., was invalided at
Gallipoli and then transferred to the N.Z.M.C.
He was M.O. of Samoa for three years from
1925 and later at Hanmer (M.L.). One son
was killed recently in the Middle East. The
rest have the family love of the sea —a son is
in the R.N.Z. Navy and a daughter is with the
W.R.N.S. Admiral Sir John Tovey is a brother.
In Melbourne, at 72, William McKenzie, one-
time circulation manager of the “Herald.”
Known as “Offside McKenzie” in Rugby from
when he was a leading member of the All
Blacks; M.L. was his birthplace.
In Sydney, Miss Nancy Consett Stephen, one
of the best friends Diggers ever had. An
M.B.E. and 0.8. E., she was also honored with
the R.S.L. Award of Merit. Much of her
sterling work for sick soldiers was done as
Director of the Convalescent Department for
24 years, and she had been a leading Red Cross
worker right through since the outbreak of the
last war.
Suddenly, in his study at Kew Trinity
Grammar School, Melbourne, of which he had
been headmaster for 20 years, Frank Shann,
one of Victoria’s most noted educationists.
Born at Hobart in 1882, he graduated from
Melbourne University, was an assistant master
for nine years at Wesley and co-principal of
the Church Grammar School, Launceston, for
three. He was one of those rare headmasters
who identify themselves with their pupils in and
out of school hours. For many years he spent
his vacations on tours about Australia with
the senior students, and Trinity’s lunch-hour
music recitals, weekly picture-shows and mock
elections were his creations. Professor Edward
Shann, the economist, who was killed in a fall
from his study window, was a brother.
In Melbourne, at 72, C. B. (Charlie) Kellow,
remembered by old-timers for bike-racing, by
horse enthusiasts as the owner of Heroic and
by motorists who think of elegant cars. Son
of a grazier, he took up bike-racing (he won
the Austral Wheel Race in 1896), went
to the Westralian goldfields, returned to Mel-
bourne and opened a cycle business out of
which sprang Kellow, Falkiner, Ltd., importers
of Rolls-Royces, Bentleys, Packards and Wolse-
leys. He owned Gundaline, on the ’Bidgee,
hunted with the Oaklands Hounds and ran
Tarwyn Park thoroughbred stud. It was a
toss-up whether he thought more of Heroic or
of Earlborn, who won him the Prince of Wales
Cup whan the now Duke of Windsor visited
Australia in 1920.


Society
"AND IT'S PRINTED
WITH WIMBLE'S INKS"
“Mac Hoots”: Either clothes rationing,
more painful than we had thought, is
forcing women to ransack the wardrobes
of their great-grandmothers or a wave
of frivolity is sweeping Sydney. On the
promenade at Coogee I was confronted
with a female below whose green coat
protruded a pair of those long white
pantalettes, frilled with lace at the ankles,
that were one of the most charming sights
of last century. Tastefully completed
with red woolly socks and shoes of a
brilliant bottle-green, the ensemble de-
lighted hundreds of spectators and, in a
crowd of young R.A.A.F. men, induced
a kind of ecstasy. I had no sooner got
over the shock of that when, in Mac-
quarie-street, I saw another fair creature
dressed in some extraordinary garment I
can describe only as long brown
bloomers. Made apparently of wool
and clinging close to the figure, the gar-
ment extended to the calves, beyond
which the legs were bare and (the day
being cold) blue. As this second appari-
tion manifested itself just outside the
N. S. Wales Parliament, I toyed joy-
fully—but incorrectly, I am afraid —with
the notion that she was a deputation
from the Housewives’ Association.
“ Good-bye, Mrs. Bunny. Do call again!"
“T.McN.”: History, according to my
Sydney Sunday newspaper: “During the
last war the Mons Cross, for men who
took part in the battle of Mons, was
granted to only British troops. Austra-
lians took part in that battle, but did not
get the general decoration.” So that ex-
plains where all those blokes were who
were A.W.L. from Broadmeadows, Sey-
mour, Liverpool and Enoggera in the
early days of the A.I.F.
H= sH * *
“C.P.”: Our suburban pub is the ren-
dezvous of a mixed lot, and all sorts of
opinions are voiced. Thus nobody took
much notice of the greyheaded man with
the paunch who was condemning coal
strikers until he said loudly “These
flamin’ strikers don’t know what mugs
they are. Me, I’m” Then a lean
individual thiust forward and snapped
“Button your lips, mug. Whadda you
know about minin’? You ever worked
in a mine? You ever gone down in the
ground an’ toiled an’ sweated f’r a lousy
few quid a week? You” The grey-
headed one held up a hand. “Sorry, mate.
Reckon I did speak outa me turn. Y’
see, while them poor miner blokes is
down in the pit, me, I’m enjoyin’ the
cool sea breezes an’ the easy life aboard
ship. Yes, mate, I’m sorry. Here’s me
tourin’ the world. An’ I’ll be off again
soon’s I can get another ship.” And
fingering the M.N. badge in his coat he
walked out.
* * * *
“Avon”: A clause in a life-insurance
policy which indemnified the insurer
against claims arising out of “earth-
quake, hurricane, volcanic eruption or
other convulsion of nature” came under
fire in the Wellington (M.L.) Supreme
Court the other day. Plaintiff was the
widow of a clergyman who was drowned
while attempting to drive his car through
a flooded stretch of road. The insur-
ance co. said a flood was a convulsion
of nature, and refused to pay. North-
croft, J., in giving judgment for plaintiff,
said he had consulted all the available
dictionaries, including Stroud’s Judicial
Dictionary, and such works as Roget’s
Thesaurus and Fowler’s books on English
usage in an endeavor to define “convul-
sion of nature.” He came to the conclu-
sion that the expression is “colloquial
only, and has no settled place in our
written language,” and that it is “too
vague, indefinite and ambiguous to have
any effect in so formal a document as a
policy of insurance.” There was legal
authority, he added, for holding that an
ambiguity should be construed more
strongly against the party responsible for
it than against the part> of the second
part,
* * * *
“Curtain Raiser”: Where in the world
has “Sartorus” seen these “young men
who are subject to an urge for whimsical
sartorial self-expression” (B, 23/6/’43)?
What he may
have seen is young
men, like young
women, who fol-
low a fashion,
and the zoot suit
is no exception.
Some more indi-
vidual idiot may
have adopted it
as a form of self-
expression, and if
it had stayed at
there nobody
would have taken
umbrage at it. In
every Australian
city there are in-
i dividuais wander-
ing about who
express them-
selves in some
peculiar sumptu-
ary manner—the
late - lamented
Chidley, in Syd-
ney, for instance,
Bible Joe and the
tall, patriarchal
gent, with the
enormous beard
who attended
symphony con-
certs in Mel-
bourne looking
like Elijah. No-
body imitates Joe
or the beaver, but
half the youth of
Australia goes
around dressed
much like Chid-
ley now, because
it is the fashion.
How many young men of “Sartorus’s”
acquaintance dared to depart by one
crease from what happened to be the
prevailing custom? Individuality in art
and thought is rare indeed, and it is just
as rare in clothing.
* * * *
“Bo”: Those ironclad jousters who got
their pages to “cover their nether extremi-
ties with foot sheets” when beards
wagged all in the great hall (B.
30/6/’43) were delicate pansies com-
pared with Geordie Hall, an elderly
Northumbrian who put his age back
and joined our unit as a rough —
"He's been sulking ever since Curtin said there wouldn't be an invasion .”
very rough—carpenter. One bitterly cold
February night when we were out for a
spell near Poperinghe and the rum was
flowing with gratifying freedom Geordie,
with some ribald companions, got lash-
ings of “point blank” mixed with the
potent o.p. Unable to make camp,
they dossed near a dump. With touching
solicitude for age Geordie’s cobbers in-
sisted on making him up a bed. The
“mattress” was a sheet of corrugated
iron ; the “blanket” was a similar sheet;
the “pillow” a petrol-tin. And with the
temperature something below zero our
hardy Northumbrian dossed quite snugly
and with no after-effects.
* * * *
“C. 8.”: An Italian Senator has sug-
gested as a “moral reprisal” for the
bombing of Italian cities that all mem-
bers of enemy nations should be for-
bidden to enter Italy for 100 years after
the war. A bit of a Spartan as well as
a whale of an optimist, that lad! Loss
of tourists would cause more damage
than all the Allied bombings put together
and multiplied ten times. I was in Italy
just after the 1914-18 war, during which
it was said that Italy would never again
have truck with the Germans, and saw
a guide showing a party of Germans the
sights of Pompeii. His troubles about
their nationality!
* * * *
“Jurutulis”: The first Malay newspaper
to be published in Australia is being issued
from the basement of a Collins-street
(Melb.) building by a dozen grave young
Javanese with college educations, two of
them nobles belonging to the N.E.I. Air
Force. It is called “Penjoeloeh,” mean-
ing “Torch,” and is handsomely got up
and illustrated. It is intended for consump-
tion by Indonesians wherever they are to
be found, so bundles go to almost every
country outside the Axis. The difficulty
of the editors is to find a middle course
between classical literary Malay, which
is stiff with grammar and archaic circum-
locutions bred in courts and palaces, and
bazaar Malay, with all its crudities. The
language has never had a Shakspeare to
do this sort of service for it, though the
first Malay journalist, Abdullah Munshi,
broke new ground when, as secretary to
Raffles, he wrote his impressions of that
great man and British institutions, which
he admired heartily. Incidentally, the
motto of “Penjoeloeh” is “Mata ganti
mata, gigi ganti gigi” (“An eye for an
eye and a tooth for a tooth”),
* * * *
“F.S.”: There has been some argu-
ment in Melbourne about a suggestion
of C. P. Mountford that Australian chil-
dren should be brought up on abo.
legends and not the fairy tales of Grimm
and Andersen. But the abo. legends have
no associations for the white Australian
child. They may be just as exciting,
charming and picturesque as “Cinderella”
and “The Sleeping Beauty,” but the latter
are rich with memories for the mothers
who tell them to their children ; and they
can tell them with feeling. All those
mothers could convey if they tried to
instil the abo. stories into their offspring
would be literary appreciation. The Aus-
tralian nursery rhymes The Bulletin
once sponsored failed for the same
reason. Many of them were excellent
examples of the species and just as
catching and delightful, if not more so,
than the traditional jingles. I tried to
teach them to my children. They don’t
remember any of them now, though they
are quite familiar with the cow that
jumped over the moon and the mouse
that ran up the clock. It is the same
with holiday resorts. I go every year to
the same spot, though there must be
dozens of other places just as beautiful
or more beautiful round the coast. The
spot I go to is rich in associations for me.
* * *
“Moyhu”: An American writer
ascribes the impulse to vandalism to
a revolt against the conventions. He
relates how a New York wrecking con-
tractor short of labor blew into a Fifth-
avenue ballroom where some of the Four
Hundred were disporting themselves with
a proposal that the dancers do a free
wrecking job for him on a Forty-second-
street building. The revellers readily
agreed. Crowbars, axes and sledge-
hammers were handed round and the
party proceeded to the task. Axes were
sunk handle-deep into immaculate plaster
walls, and sledge-hammers reduced valu-
able fittings to matchwood, to the accom-
paniment of cheers from hilarious ladies.
But the contractor didn’t repeat the
experiment; amateurs can make a mess
even of making a mess.
THE KNOW-ALLS.
“It makes my blood boil when I hear politicians
who never did a day’s soldiering, never wanted to
train to defend their country, never lifted a finger
to help us in the last war, airing their views on
military strategy and tactics.”
—General Brand in the Senate.
You’d think that there’d be obvious inhibitions
When war’s discussed, a warning note to
strike
And counsel silence for the politicians
Who’ve never learned first-hand what war is
like.
Or sought to, either, being well content
To stay while others went.
You might have thought when, ’mid the clash
and clangor
Of arms, the ways of warfare men debate
That those who never fired a shot in anger,
Or even heard one fired, would hesitate
To air their views on things whereof they know
Maught. But it isn’t so.
There’ll be, I bet, few voices ringing louder
When hustings their election talks release
Than those of orators who’ve smelt no powder
Save from a shotgun or a fowling-piece,
Chaps who, though service in the field they
shun,
Know just how wars are won.
They never learned the elements of drill,
In trenches toiled or slogged through mud
or dust;
Their paths were ever those of peace. But still
When military tactics are discussed
They'll hint at how much better some affair
Had gone—could they’ve been there.
They stayed at home, disliking war’s alarms,
While others for their country fought and
bled.
It’s doubtful if they ever shouldered arms,
But when there’s an election close ahead
And bellicose philippics to compile
This fact won’t cramp their style.
N.S.W.
PIPARDS.
SCOTTISH CAUTION.
“Seventeen million gallons of whisky have been
removed from vulnerable areas in Scotland and stored
in safer parts of the country.”
Somewhere in Uncle Sam’s domains capacious
Is buried deep a miser’s dream of bliss,
Millions on millions of the efficacious
Metal which nowadays so much we miss.
How much? I hear you ask. Why, goodness
gracious!
It’s quite beyond the dreams of avarice.
Unless I’m misinformed about its worth,
It’s more than half of all the gold on earth.
That every land should sock away securely
Whate’er it values most may well be styled
A step that can’t be taken prematurely
When war-time perils are on perils piled.
And, following the Yankee lead, ’twas surely
Fitting that Caledonia stern and wild
A subterranean refuge should have sought
For her innumerable “pecks o’ maut.”
Millions of gallons—more than any fellow
Can visualise —of good old Highland dew.
Stacked beyond reach of blitz will grow more
mellow,
Aye, and appreciate in value, too,
More certainly than all the buried yellow
Metal beyond the sea is like to do.
Though whether gold has touched its top or no
Only the future, nothing else, can show.
Old Scotia’s immemorial thirst-assuager
Is stowed in many a secluded spot.
Think what a stirring song the poet-gauger
Burns could have written on it, could he not?
Albeit there’s many a Holy Joe, I’ll wager,
Had he his will, would pour away the lot,
Oblivious of the precedent divine
Set by transforming water into wine.
He looks ahead, does Mac, he takes no chances.
And when the war is won and Hitler's
smashed,
How pleasantly and piquantly one’s fancies
Turn to the moors, with heath and verdure
splashed,
Those wild and wide and picturesque expanses
Where such a wondrous wealth of whisky s
cached
The most to’be commended, I’ll engage,
Of all the stimulants that gam with age.
N.S.W.
T. THE R.


“Wodgil”; The lonely death of the 82-
year-old spinster sister of Frederick
Moore Clements, the Tonic man, has
revived memories of that queer bird. A
Stanmore (Sydney) chemist, he made a
fortune out of*the tonic, and retired to
a Stanmore villa, where his sister kept
house for him. Though not without
generous impulses, he must have been a
tartar to live with, and, dying rich, he
left his sister only £l5O a year and use
of the house and furniture, though the
annuity was raised to £l3OO as the result
of a Supreme Court action. I have been
told that a call on Clements at his home
was an eerie experience. A footfall on
a doormat set electric bells ringing furi-
ously through the house. Before the
visitor had got over the shock there sud-
denly opened, not the door—that remained
fastened —but a cunningly contrived piece
of it (possibly the work of the craftsman
who made the ballot box with the sliding
panel) which presently framed the
Clements face. There is a tradition that
the odd fish invented an ointment as well
as the tonic, and tossed a penny to decide
which he should place on the market —
heads, tonic; tails, ointment. Heads it
was; and the tonic was so immediate a
success that he never bothered about the
ointment.
* * * *
“Lord Luvus”: It isn’t only from pub-
lic utterances that “the art of the well-
turned phrase and 1 the apt piece of
imagery” has disappeared; it has also
vanished from private conversation. A
hundred years ago, if records are to be
believed, after-dinner conversations scin-
tillated with wit. Earlier still, a Dr.
Johnson who could keep an audi-
ence spellbound was never at a
loss for an invitation to a party. Nowa-
days displays of intellect have gone
completely out of fashion, and an
individual capable of conducting a logi-
cal argument would not only not be
understood but would cause acute em-
barrassment, even in the most select
circles. I was at a Melbourne party
once which included specialists in all sorts
of knowledge, including a sprinkling of
university professors. I naturally ex-
pected the conversation to be on an ele-
vated level, but it turned out to be just
commonplace chit-chat.
* * * *
“Pawang”: A religious note from
Melb. “Argus’s” correspondence columns:
If we would not be despicable traitors to
our God, let us shun Sunday amusements
as Satan’s snares to seduce sinners into
hell, and disregard the adversary’s dupes.
Only a fool would give deadly poison be-
cause his child cried for it.
Reminds me of my simple childhood
when fancy knitting wasn’t allowed on
Sunday but button-sewing was; when
hymns could be played on the piano, but
not Chopin or Mozart, and when, having
knocked two teeth out pole-vaulting, I
was told that it was the Almighty’s way
of punishing me for Sabbath-breaking.
Actually the Sabbath day injunction rests
on the verse in Exodus which amplifies
the commandment: “Six days thou shalt
do thy work, and on the seventh day thou
shalt rest; that thine ox and thine ass
may rest, and the son of thy handmaid
and the stranger may be refreshed,” i.e.,
that there shall be merrymaking. Inas-
much as the modern ox and ass are elec-
tricity, gas and other forms of power
that don’t have to rest or can be rested
only at ruinous expense, the injunction
has become archaic, and even the most
confirmed observer in Melbourne doesn’t
hesitate to turn on the gas.
“T.P.”: A flood of letters in the news-
papers telling soldiers and civilians how
they should spend their Sundays reminds
me of the time when Victorian Premier
Tommy Bent received a deputation of
church people protesting against Sunday
excursion trains. “You want all Sun-
day trains stopped,” Tommy said. “I’m
with you! Brighton church is good
enough for me. Why should people swarm
into the city every Sunday when there
are churches in every suburb?” The
speakers gasped and gurgled, for even
then the leading churches in and around
Collins-street depended on the Sabbath
suburban train service for nine-tenths of
their congregations. As the deputation
filed out the Premier winked at his pri-
vate secretary. “That’s done it,” he said.
He * * *
“S.P.”: The winter art-show season
has started in Melbourne, and soon there
will be the same old crowd hanging up
the same old landscapes and still-life, or
new ones exactly like last year’s. The
critics will pass favorable or adverse
opinions, and art-lovers will read the
critics’ opinions into the pictures, but the
effect on the general life of the com-
munity will be nil. One wonders why
some of the artists don’t use their know-
ledge in other ways than putting paint on
canvas. To decorate a milk-cart or a van
with paint and make it look nice, for
instance, is just as artistic an activity as
painting a picture. The success of the
result will be determined by observation
in just the same way as if the painter
were making a portrait or building a
cathedral.
“F.S.” on art tendencies in Melbourne:
Lud Mayor Nettlefold has asked the Vic.
Nat. Gallery to lend some of its pictorial
treasures for exhibition at the Town Hall so
that city workers can enjoy their lunchtime
leisure in viewing works of art, and he expects
thousands to avail themselves of the oppor-
tunity. Some may, but if he anticipates a repe-
tition of the scenes at the “contemporary”
show at the same place he is likely to be dis-
appointed. That was a success of sensation. It
was sponsored by the “Herald,” which for weeks
beforehand printed exciting biographies of the
artists. It briefed local “modernists” to broad-
cast, and as this was the first time they had
received official recognition they rallied to the
call with all the alacrity of a Communist in-
vited to speak at a Second-Fronters’ meeting
by a bench of bishops. It even hung the trams
with placards. Contemporaries took an acid view
of “modernist” art in general and these examples
in particular, and subpoenaed eminent critics and
art authorities to prove that “modem” art was
a decadent product. For a few short weeks
the war was forgotten, and the only question in
the streets was “Have you seen the modernist
exhibition?” The number of citizens now who
would walk a block to see a Cezanne or a Van
Gogh could be counted on the fingers. Inci-
dentally, big attendances at the National Gallery
have also been successes of sensation. When
a new Old Master arrives the enormous dis-
crepancy between the price paid for it and the
prices paid for the work of local artists arouses
public interest. The only exhibit which main-
tains its success of sensation, however, is
Phar Lap.
"Not a word to the Egg Board, Joe!"
“Hamer”: Where did the phrase “knock
off,” now common in our idiom, come
from? A Granfer who had memories of
days when chain gangs made the roads
told me years ago that each man was
given a wooden peg bearing his number
which was driven into the bank of the
road or some other sightable spot to mark
the space he had to work to. The men
were spaced out so that they would not
get together. The reward of quick, good
work was an earlier finish. The warder
in charge, seeing a good job completed,
would say “All right, £ou can knock off
now,” whereupon the worker would
knock his peg off its place and hand in
his implements. But at a brewery with
which I was later acquainted the carters,
who then worked all sorts of hours,
would be told “That’s all for you today.
You can knock off a drink and finish up.”
And doubtless other likely origins of the
term could be recalled.
* * * *
“Ben Acre”: In discussion on the
names of hotels. The Royal has been
mentioned as being the most common.
But was not the original name The Royal
Mail, dating from the brave days when
the Royal Mail coaches made pubs places
of call for rest and refreshment and for
change of horses?
“Bev”; “T. the R.” (B. 2/6/’43) ap-
pears to think he has missed something
in life by not having met a seventh son
of a seventh son. Tell him the next time
I go to Sydney I will give him the oppor-
tunity of shaking one by the hand. Not
only am I a seventh son of a seventh son,
but a thirteenth child. Have I had all the
luck in life? No. In more than 30 years
of punting I have rarely come home a
winner. I have spent £3OO or more
in lotteries and drawn £lO. I have
been pursued by furious creditors
for a quarter of a century, and have
passed through the worst drought and
the worst slump in the history of jum-
buck-raising. If “T. the R.” wants ‘ the
lucky number” 'debunked any further, I
can tell him of sickness in the bush with
the rivers in flood, no stores delivered
for months, rotten flour, broken, legs
but that’s enough for the present.
* * * *
“D.R.H.”; The settlers who first took
up land a few miles north-east of Adel-
aide found the foothills in winter and
spring a little paradise of clear-running
streams, ferns, moss and cool greenery.
Those pleasant valleys reminded them of
England, and their enthusiasm and their
nostalgia are permanently recorded in
the names they gave to the places about
the spot where I was born; Para-
dise, Hope Valley, Golden Grove,
Millbrook, Chain-of-Ponds, Hermitage,
Paracombe, Highercombe, Inglewood are
a few. Today they sound alien and a
little forlorn beside the sturdy Austra-
lianism of such other S.A. names as
Carriewerloo and Boggy Flat.
* * * *
“Lower Tops’l”: Melbourne’s last cab-
stand under the Flinders-street extension
viaduct —the taking-off ground for dock-
land —is disappearing. Before the war it
was the only city spot where you were
sure to be addressed “Keb, sir?” and to
hear the clip-clop of horses. Although
the growlers extorted a 2s. fare to Vic-
toria Dock alongside a taxi’s Is. 6d., they
were sure of custom. No taxis dared
stand there —the cabbies saw to that, with
horse manure if necessary. But this
monopoly was also due to the psychology
of sailors. In port sailors are nervous of'
taxis but never of horse cabs, in which
they can keep their bearings. Invariably
at night seamen walk the length of Flin-
ders-street —down a tramline —and under
the viaduct bundle into a cab. “The best
of customers, too,” an old cabby told me.
“You see, we leave the fare to them.
Mostly they put in a bob each, and if
there are five we get five bob for a two-
bob fare,”
* * * *
“Pappagallo” on Deakin’s oratory:
No, “Lord L.” (B. 30/6/’43), Deakin did not
have a silver tongue. It was sometimes golden,
but usually it reminded one more of iron—
he had often the kind of periodicity of de-
livery which you hear in the roar of an express
train in the early morning while half-awake
in a long-distance sleeper. Sometimes he could
be inspired and hold even reporters enthralled,
but his oratory needed an occasion. Curiously,
he was at his best in a state of white-hot indig-
nation. I tremble to think what he would have
done to the Wards and the Thorntons, for I
once heard him —in his campaign before com-
pulsory training came in—drive a brash young
larrikin out of a meeting “the talent” had
decided to break up. When the moment called
for invective that came from the heart he was
no automaton in.oratory. Who that heard it —
least of all William Morris Hughes—will forget
those scornful words about somebody being
“dragged screaming from the tartshop”? The
truth about Deakin was that he was actually
what “Lord L.” says he looked like —an “evan-
gelist,” for the ideal of “one nation, one flag,
one destiny.” When he was on that subject
he could be all light and color; otherwise, he
could be dull. Lord Birkenhead, who heard
him as a young man in his Commonwealth Con-
stitution Bill days, told me that in those times
there was no greater orator in the Anglo-Saxon
world, “not even among the Irish.”
* * * »
“A Major” stands up for Australian
music:
Ignaz Friedman, the pianist, repeating in
Sydney certain strictures against Australian
musical standards which he made in Adelaide
(B. 16/6/’43), has added some knobs and rather
exceeded, I think, the limits which the laws of
courtesy should impose on a visitor from
Europe who has been very kindly received in this
country. To say that “Australia has five main
orchestras but if you put the whole lot together
you wouldn’t get one good one out of them”
may be as true as it is cruel, but there’s a
war bn and the orchestras have contributed
so many members to the services that most
of the bands are just shadows of their
former selves. At a recent A.B.C. symphony
concert in Sydney the whole of the second-
violin division and all save two or three of the
first violins were women; there was even a
woman among the brasses, playing a slide trom-
bone, and the whole strength of the instrumen-
tation was nearer 50 than the regulation 80 to
100. Mr. Friedman’s reference to musical
examiners in Australia as people who come
from England “wanting to be popular with
everybody,” rush candidates through in “about
ten minutes each” and “pass a lot of people
who should never be passed” can be left to
Trinity College, the L.C.M., the R.A.M. and
the Conservatoriuras which conduct exams,
under those auspices to answer. As to the
suggestion that noted European teachers should
be imported to enlighten our darkness, there’s
no doubt they’d be as welcome as Mr. Fried-
man is, but their freedom to migrate will de-
pend on the efforts of people who for some
time to come must pay more homage to Mars
than to Music.
* * * *
“Zake”; Once • more the “Pyjama
Girl” case is in the news, and once more
my afternoon paper tells me that for
nine years the police have “never ceased
working on the case.” N.S.W. taxpayers
would like to know how many thousands
of pounds have been poured down the
sink in that unfruitful investigation. The
case has long lost interest for the public,
and the reputation of the force, which
has so many unsolved murders on its
hands that Sydney has lost count of
them, is in no way dependent on success
in this one inquiry. If the case had been
called the “culvert murder” or “the drain-
pipe mystery” at the outset it would have
ceased to interest the flapper press three
days after the discovery \pf the remains.
* * *
“D.H.R.”: It may interest “A Major”
to learn that the “Waltzing Matilda”
tune is very like an air composed by
James Barr, of Kilbarchan, about 1799,
for a lyric of Robert Tannahill’s, “Thow
Bonnie Wood of Craigielea,” to be found
in collections of Scottish minstrelsy.
When I was on Kinross station (Vic.) over
40 years ago I heard a drover sing
“Wood of Graigielea.” He was Long
George Martin, native-born, but with
a fund of Scottish sentiment. He played
the violin, too, very capably.
* * * *
“Schnorrer”: Hobart Synagogue,
oldest in Australasia, is due for a cen-
tenary celebration next month. Though
the building was not ready for dedica-
tion until 1845, it was on August 9, 1843,
that the foundation-stone was laid. In
that year the Druitt-street synagogue in
Sydney was opened also ; but there was a
schism, and when the two congregations
resulting from it (one had a tabernacle
in Macquarie-street) were brought to-
gether it was decided to build the Great
Synagogue, which, therefore, is much
younger than the Argyle-street temple in
Hobart. Plans to de-dedicate the Great
Synagogue and build a new temple, prob-
ably at Darlinghurst, have been post-
poned by the war ; the aim is to have
the synagogue within walking distance of
the homes of a majority of the members
of the congregation, since to ride in any
vehicle on the Sabbath is an offence
against the Torah. That was the reason
why the old Melbourne synagogue in
Bourke-street was forsaken for the new
one in St. Kilda-road. Hobart Jewry,
which has small numbers, has, however,
managed very well with its old building,
and there is no talk of a change.
**- * *
“J.H.M.A.”: Harry O’May, of Belle-
rive (Tas.), recently supplied me with
records of some happenings in the career
of Matthew Brady, the Speck’s pet bush-
ranger ;
Your last article on Brady [he writes] stirred
my memory to the episode of the Blue-eyed
Maid. This boat figured at different times in
connection with escaped prisoners. In 1826
the Maid was left at Spring Bay to communi-
cate with Maria Island. Captain White had found
her in the Straits and brought her back with
some escaped convicts. The Duke of York got
ashore—l think on the reef off Maria,, opposite
Lachlan Island —so he sent the Maid out with
the convicts, the boatswain being in charge, to
tow her off. The prisoners threw the bos’n
overboard, and cleared out with the Maid.
I have another record of the connection of
Brady and his gang with this vessel. On De-
cember 3, 1825, they cleared out with her from
Spring Bay, and on the 17th seized Camp-
bell’s sloop anchored in Schoutcn main, and
put out to sea through the passage. After
some time the wind freshened (n.-e., I expect).
They got scared, and ran back and anchored.
They cut a hole in the sloop and scuttled her,
and then rowed up the bay and landed. There,
having been discovered by Hobbs, they aban-
doned the Blue-eyed Maid and took to the
bush. This was Brady’s last chance of escap-
ing from the island—there were no real seamen
amongst his following, or they would never
have thrown it away.


ABORIGINALITIES
“T. McN.”: A.B.C. filled out its Syd-
ney news “session” the other night with
the harrowing story of a fierce wallaroo
which was galloping about the suburb
of Collaroy . attacking women and chil-
dren. It was taken from the report in an
afternoon daily, and it painted a fear-
some picture of a small wallaby gnashing
its teeth, shrieking curses and rushing to
the attack:
Collaroy police are on the warpath for
a fully-grown wallaroo which attacked two
women. Mrs. was wheeling a baby
along the path when the wallaroo jumped
at her... .Mrs. and the baby suffered
shock. The baby’s shawl and bonnet were
ripped off by the wallaroo’s claws. The
same evening the wallaroo sprang at Mrs.
, knocking her down A number of .
children have been chased
There was more, and A.B.C. ran it all.
What a story those reporters could make
of the doings of a ferocious leveret!
“K. McC.”: There still are thistle
plagues in Victoria (B. 16/6/’43). Along
the Lower Murray flats after the record
’3l flood the spiny curse grew so thick
that we had to slash tracks through it to
move stock. Four years later, though
there were heavy rains, there wasn’t a
thistle, but in ’39 they appeared again.
These periodic appearances and disappear-
ances have been occurring there for half
a century since the South Australian
farmers, overlanding up the river,
brought the seeds in their horse-feed.
In the Cabbage Garden’s better rainfall
areas the same thing happens.
* * * *
“Nepean”: I always thought tamed
dingoes were faithless until I saw one
recently at Harrietville (Vic.). It was
caught as a small pup on the near-by
Dargo High Plains by F. Beveridge, who
runs Herefords there in the snowless
months. Today it’s the best of cattle-
dogs and an expert rabbiter. It never
bothers about anyone except its master.
♦ * * *
“Anthropo”; The coolamon —it was
known elsewhere as the pitchi or yandi—
was the abo.’s one universal utensil. A
carrier for water, seeds, roots and at times
a cradle, it was made in many curious
ways. Up north a sheet of smooth bark
was stripped from a tree, bent nearly
double longwise while still sappy, sewn
at both ends with a bark fibre string
through holes bored with a sharp wooden
or bone bodkin, and spread at the middle
with a short stick in the form of a minia-
ture canoe. In the south-west, where the
jjarrah bark was not so adaptable to bend-
ing and sewing, it could be moulded to
shape by being suspended between two
logs, the centre dished by a heavy round
stone, and so allowed to dry. Along the
coastal fringe, where the paperbark pro-
vided a wood soft enough to be gouged
out, the coolamon was of wood, not un-
like an old-fashioned butcher’s tray. In
the interior desert the abo. artisan sought
the bloodwood-tree, which grew protuber-
ances on its trunk. Cutting carefully
around such a bump, he tapped the bark
all over with his stone axe, so that it
lifted off whole, providing a coolamon
much the size and shape of a man’s hat.
* * ♦ *
“Barnacle Bill”: We came upon Mac
one morning examining the damage to
his old T model and heaping curses on
his neighbor Jim Kearney. “Did he back
into you?” we asked, viewing the splin-
tered glass. No, it wasn’t that. It ap-
peared that the previous night Mac had
been kidded by his family to go to the
pictures—for the first time in three years.
He reckoned that if those hungry Kear-
neys hadn’t stopped for supper after the
flicks they would have been in front of
him coming home, and the flamin’ kan-
garoo would have jumped through their
windscreen.
* * * *
“Mat’s Mate”; A pugnacious cowhand
from the Gippsland hills lurched along a
Lang Lang street one night and tramped
on Mat’s foot. “Mind where y’re walk-
in’, mate,” said Mat mildly. The pug-
nacious one whirled, “Never mind about
you,” he said, and swung. Mat dodged
it, came up in an attitude I well knew
and said, mildly, “Mind who y’re punch-
in’ at, mate.” The Gippslander made a
rush at him, and Mat’s left shot out and
took him on the nose. He staggered to
one side, the organ flowing red, and Mat
said, not quite so mildly, “Mind where
y’re puttin’ y’r nose, mate.”
• » * *
“Land Girl”: There’s nothing revolu-
tionary in the war-time appearance of
women on the shearing board. Uncle
Albert —he’s Uncle Albert to all this
Kybybolite (S.A.) district —tells how a
century back, during the Victorian gold
rush, all the able-bodied men fell to the
“Try any of your commando stunts on me and I'll push your face in !"
lure of the yellow metal, leaving the har-
vesting, fencing and shearing to be done
by young women and old men. Uncle
Albert’s mother travelled each year from
Hahndorf (S.A.) 100 miles north to Mt.
Bryon station, and shore her 70 sheep a
day. The women made the journey in
a small pole wagon, the old men padding
the hoof. After the shearing she’d return
home to harvest the wheat with sickles,
tie it into bundles, flail the grain, clean
off the husks with prevailing winds and
take the grain to the water-driven mill at
Bridgewater. fj
♦ * » *
“R.N.S.”; Where are these bulls bred
that go into the battle with their tails
aloft? Every bull I’ve had does his
stoushing with his rudder hard down. It
is the same with a team of bullocks pull-
ing ; the order is heads down, backs
arched and tails down, the lot the shape
of a bow.
* » * *
. “Bad Australian”; I. have examined
many specimens of “blackfellow’s bread,”
ranging from a few ounces to 31b., but it
remains a mystery to me. It looks like
a potato, and, cut in sections, it closely
resembles sago boiled to the consistency
of cheese ; but as it has no seed, bud, root,
branch or anything else to indicate its
age or stage of development, it is diffi-
cult to understand how it is propagated
or how long it takes to reach maturity.
It’s supposedly a highly nutritious article
of diet much esteemed by Black Brother.
I was inclined to favor the same belief
until the testimony of my late-lamented
friend “Jerry,” onetime “King all about
Burnett” (Q.), made it clear to me that,
although he and his vassals were pre-
pared to lunch off anything that grew,
hopped, crawled, swam or flew in his
territory, the “bread” never appeared on
their menu. The only explanation he had
to offer was “No, boss. Mine no bin
eatum that one. Altogether plenty ’nother
pfeller no bin eatum, too.”
* * * *
“Pine Creek”; In an anabranch of the
Copperfield (N.Q.) my mate and I
stumbled on about a score of Johnston
crocodiles. We began sniping the mob
with our .22’s. They were fitted with
Maxim silencers, and the crocs, couldn’t
locate the cause of their agony. Soon
suspicion entered their skulls, and they
turned one on the other. As the Donny-
brook developed that placid pond became
a churned mass of rippling, twisting
bodies, writhing in the slush and foam.
We came out of our foxholes to heave
rocks and sool them on ; but, spotting
us, the bedlam ceased as the disgruntled
and leaking creatures submerged under
their shroud of slush. Only occasional
bubbles or muddy swirls, contrasting
strangely with the late aquatic agitation,
marked the end of the riparian riot. ,
c * * *
“B. 4”: I accuse. The greedy eel is the
principal agent in reducing the piscatorial
population of our eastern streams. These
sinuous wrigglers insinuate their slinky
lengths into the hollow logs or crannies
where the fish flee for refuge, and crawl
over mud flats where flopping fish have
vainly leaped. They scrape their way
through rocky crevices and travel from
one hole to another. Catfish, though
armed with formidable spikes, are seized
by the tail and slowly chewed to death.
Nor do these marauders confine them-
selves to fish; they seize and devour
young water-rats, platypus and aquatic
fowl. I have caught and netted dark-
skinned monsters up to six feet long ;
one weighed 361 b. To circumvent these
pirates. Nature has set her jungles of
emerald- and duckweed anchored firmly
to rock or muddy floor, wherein the in-
digenous species may develop and flourish
free from persecution. In the deeper
and clearer holes the eels carry leaves in
their mouths which they pile in a heap
and anchor with stones. Beneath this
ambush they hide and wait till a school
of bony bream or careless perch flit past.
Their only redeeming feature is that they
are themselves good to eat.
* * * *
“Gumsucker”: How is “A.R.P.” (B.
2/6/’43) going to apply his bandage and
little pad if, alone in the bush, he gashes
his right hand badly while oilstoning the
axe to that last razor edge?
* * * *
“J. Canning”: The early settlers on the
Swan River (W.A.) had a trick of making
the humble potato yield practically a
double crop (B. 2/6/’43). When the
haulms were good and high, indicating
fair growth of the tubers, they would dig
do\vn carefully and take away anything
sizable enough for the pot. The soil
was then replaced, the roots being but
little disturbed. The plant, relieved of
half its burden, would concentrate on the
remainder, ripening in the fullness of
time as heavy a poundage of spuds as
would have been had the whole of the
tubers been left undisturbed.
* * * *
“Solitude”: I was yarning to Tony
near the boundary fence when Seventy-
fiver rode past. “When’s it goin' to rain,
Ancient?” called Tony idly. “Maybe in
three months,” was the reply. “Aw, cut
it out,” protested Tony. “Don’t you
know I’m overstocked an’ short of feed?
It ain’t too late yet for it to grow if
it rains.” The old bloke nodded agree-
ment, then looked gloomily round the
horizon. “’Course rain ain’t impossible
when the season sets in like this,” he ven-
tured. “But I s’pose you don’t remember
the big droughts. Funny how them
spells come round, Cripes, the sheep was
dyin’ like flies. Couldn’t give ’em away.
There wasn’t a mouthful of feed no-
where, an’ it weren’t no use tryin’ to
save nothin’. Many a hard-headed old-
timer went under in them years.” He
shook his head sorrowfully and heaved
a sigh. “Yes, I’d hate to see another
drought like them,” he mourned as he
rode on. I spent another ten minutes
or so with Tony, then, hustling along,
overtook the old bloke. “Well,” he
grinned as I reined in, “what did you
have to pay for his young ewes?”
* , * *
“D.R.H.”: “Leave two of the kit-
tens,” says “Naturala” (B. 9/6/’43). A
few years ago old “Shotgun” Charlie, who
lives in a sheet-iron shack by the lagoon,
tried it. In the summer his two tortoise-
shell cats each presented him with two
batches of kittens. Resolved to save
Toms, and applying his own method of
sex-determination, he found himself with
10 cats. Something was wrong with his
method apparently, for next summer
each one of the ten had two fami-
lies of kittens. This time, of each
lot of kittens Charlie saved two, and
all became matrons. Trying another
method recommended by a neighbor who
seemed dinkum, Charlie saved altogether
200 kittens, having now 250 cats all told.
But then his nerve broke at the prospect of
having to sex, at a conservative estimate,
2500 kittens the following summer, I
said he lives in an iron shack. He does,
with the loaded gun for which he’s nick-
named. The nice little stone house on
the rise was Charlie’s: now it belongs to
the cats.
* * * *
“S.T.S,”: I have twice made that
Murray trip from Morgan (S.A.) up to
Mildura (Vic.), calling at Renmark and
Berri (S.A.) and Wentworth (N.S.W.) at
the Darling junction, and I hardly knew
Australia till I loafed for a week on that
old-time paddle-wheeled three-decker. A
pause while a man rowed alongside and
threw on board a string of Murray cod ;
a long halt by the bank in wild scrub
while all hands juggled across a plank a
few tons of firewood left waiting there ;
a hearty welcome by complete strangers
at any riverside sheep-station ; pleasant
interludes at each of the big fruitgrow-
ing cities that have sprung up between
the locks, and the night stretches, with a
great searchlight playing on the bends
ahead and the lonely steersman welcom-
ing a chat. The “palace boat” that
“Horseless Horseman” speaks of would
transform the whole Australian flavor.
* * * «
“Propalong”: When Paterson Heggitty
took over Taranjumback in ’32 he intro-
duced a modern system of counting sheep
(B. 9/6/’43). The yards were remodelled,
and a series of smooth-sided pens exactly
20 yards by 20 was built. A specially-
trained staff was appointed to instruct all
sheep on the place in decorum. The jum-
bucks were taught to stand side by side
and nose to tail in a yard without either
crowding together or elbowing their
neighbors. They were also trained to re-
spond cheerfully to the calls “This way,
please,” and “Through the gate, ladies”
(or “gents,” of course, as the case might
be). All station hands were issued with
a printed card on which were tabulated
the exact numbers of sheep of any age,
growth of wool and sex which would fit
decorously into the square pens or into
any of the marked subdivisions thereof.
At counting time the gates were opened
and the woollies walked quietly in at the
appropriate call and, as soon as their edu-
cated senses informed them that the pen
was sufficiently full, marched out at the
other end. The station hand in charge
then made the necessary correction for
temperature and for rainfall since shear-
ing. I may say that our maximum error,
checked by an expert drover using the
old method, was only .01027 of a ewe in
a count of 19,762.
* * * *
“H.W.S.”: I’d like “Silex” (B.
16/6/’43) to know that my story of the
Shannon rise comes entirely from my
own experience there, and I’d also like
to show him around the Great Lake,
where the rainbow and brown trout run
to 121 b. to 181 b. in weight; thence to
the Shannon River and the Shannon
Lagoon. And I’d introduce him to at
least one of the experts who, on the dry
fly has on more than one occasion
bagged his 12 fish before breakfast. By
the way, we scorn dynamite in Tassie,
preferring the wattle grub its safer ana
equally effective.
LEFT STANDING.
This is scrub country and the tall hills lean
Shoulder to purple shoulder on the sky
Like old, old men. They shade from dull
brown-green
To emerald where little creeks sing by.
Rough country roads wind redly up the hills,
And small, square paddocks ploughed in choco-
late lines
Make patchwork patterns. Chequered sunshine
spills
In light and dark through Norfolk Island pines
On quiet country homes.
Yet still among these man-made, man-kept
things
Stand small scrub patches where the tortuous
tracks
Twist leaf-deep, dank, wild wistaria flings
Its misty mauve abroad and wind click-clacks
In parchment leaves of honeysuckle trees
Laden with spiny cones.
Red fungi cowls crouch, dwarflike, round the
boles
Of burrawongs. Dark swarms of native bees
Cluster on tree boughs by dim waterholes
Where prick-eared wallabies clump down to
drink
And paddymelons, hopping through the brush,
Send pebbles scattering down the bank to clink
In silent pools where milky weeds grow lush.
Cascades of crimson berries sharply drip
On tall scrub giants. The hardy kurrajongs
Reach up to supplejacks, and saplings slip
Past tree-fern tops and squatty burrawongs
In spindly fashion. Bangaiow palms arise
Above them all towards the lilac skies.
This is Australian loveliness that clings
In small scrub patches close tcf man-kept things.
N.S.W.
JOAN McEWEN.


WHAT WILL HE DO WITH IT?
The morning breaks insufferably clean,
The flawless pearl of days is but begun;
North-easterly the breeze rings clear and keen,
One smear of gaudy cloud affronts the sun.
What shall a mere man do with such a day?
The seagull and the thrush, the horse, the
hare,
Receive a plenitude of bliss, for they
Will eat and drink it in without a care;
But men, within stiff cubic spaces walled,
Sit anxious, tossing aside the golden hours,
By chill abstractions weighted and enthralled,
Bleak-lipped, distraught, pallid and hollow-
eyed.
MAORILAND. ARNOLD WALL.
* * * *
“Chuck”; The Yank was eager to try
his hand at duck shooting. Dad intro-
duced him to a shotgun, allowed him a
couple of practice shots, and at daylight
drove him out to the swamp. From a scrub
patch Dad watched the visitor snake for-
ward when the ducks were sighted, gain
the shelter of a fallen tree, raise the gun
to position and after a few tense
moments lower it. Dad waited patiently.
Presently the weapon was again raised,
held steady, then once more allowed to
fall. “Make ’em rise,” stage-whispered
the old man, signalling frantically from
the bushes; then he slid into the grass,
and five minutes later came up behind
the stalker. “Hey,” he whispered, grab-
bing the other by the foot, “you’ll have
to step out from cover to make ’em rise.”
The Yank glanced back cautiously.
“Make ’em rise!” he said. “I’ve been
waiting for them boids to stop swimmin’.”
* * * *
“Sur Cingle”: “Anthropo’s” claim (B.
9/6/’43) that our native fauna have in-
creased since the coming of the white
man is supported by Dirty Ned. “ ’Course
them animals have increased,” he
asserted. “An’ not only ’roos an’ emus.
Until I was about 20 I never seen one
of them wombats with the yaller-green
an’ pink markin’s. First I ever see was
on the White Cliffs road, out past where
the ol’ Beefwood pub use to be. There
was a pair in a little box flat. Next time
I see seven of ’em. That was years ago,
mind y’. An’ now —why, only last month,
just after I landed a decent-sized cheque
for a well-sinkin’ job, I saw dozens of
’em at Whitey’s shack below the Sidin’.”
9 * # *
“Bungaree”: A quaint old blunderbuss
used to hang over Uncle Tom’s fireplace.
He carried it in the days when he drove
the coach between Geelong and Bendigo
—those gold-digging days when Black
Douglas and his ilk used to haunt the
Black Forest. About the length of a
sawn-off shotgun, it was fired by a trigger
and percussion cap. The barrel, forged
steel inside, was cased on the outside
with polished brass. The huge bell
mouth scattered the charge of shot at
short range. The shot was made up of
anything at all that was small and
metallic. As a counter to bushrangers
it left little to be desired, the one shot
being guaranteed to clean up everything
over a radius of 10 or 12 feet. I’ve often
wondered whether an enlarged edition of
that blunderbuss wouldn’t be just the thing
for discouraging the Stuka, catching it
just as it came down to the finish of the
dive.
sj: * * *
“Nipper”: Old Mac chugged up to the
store at Peewit, and after a lot of
manoeuvring packed his 30-year-old Di
Dion under the verandah. Out of holes
in his tyres, now mostly canvas with odd
bits of rubber here and there, poked
corn-husk and grass packing Mac
had given up buying inner tubes.
As he was inside ordering his stores
there came loud barks from the
car, and Mac rushed out. An abo.
stockman with a scared look was scurry-
ing across the street. As Mac went back,
reassured, Tim Daly, the storekeeper, said
“That’s the first time you’ve brought that
staghound o’ yours in t’ town, Mac —I
thought y’ said he was too savage to have
loose?” “Well, y’ see, Tim,” said Mac,
“I was over at Higgins’s place yesterdee,
an’ while I was there the wireless reck-
oned there’s car-strippers roamin’ round
an’ they’re concentratin’ on pinchin’ tyres.
Well, I’m takin’ no risks.”
jJ? H*
“Lower Tops’l”: “ ’Longshore” (B.
16/6/’43) left Tasmanian bluegum out of
his list of Australian hardwoods suitable
for shipbuilding. It’s still used exten-
sively by shipwrights on the Der-
went, that last refuge of freight-
carrying wooden ships. The barque
Harriet McGregor was built through-
out of bluegum, and for grace, beauty
and performance this 333-ton vessel
was never excelled by anything that
left the stocks in the Speck. Basil
Lubbock in his Colonial Clippers de-
scribes her as, for her size, the fastest
clipper barque in the world. Her 78-day
passages to London and her 280-day
runs as she circled the globe with al-
most steamship regularity are evidence
enough. For 25 years she left Hobart
each Christmas Day with wool and
sperm-oil for London, to return with
general cargo in time to sail to Mauritius
and back for a load of sugar before her
date next year. In 1895 she was sold for
want of trade. She was sound as a bell
then, but think of the bashing that blue-
gum took in 25 years!
* * * «
“Zake”: “Tarcutta” Tim was thor-
oughly fed up. A fellow of extraordinary
high spirits when things were going right,
he descended to the depths of despondency
when things went wrong. And today
they had gone all wrong. At every farm-
house he’d called at the farmer’s wife had
whinged about shortages. The sole was
flapping from one of his only pair of
shoes, he was right out of tobacco and a
back tooth had been giving him gyp all
day. A mile outside Mullenbeen he
struck a fat, ginger-headed, middle-aged
fellow sitting under an ironbark assidu-
ously sharpening a long knife on a stone.
“Tarcutta” helped himself to a billy of
tea and soon finished the recital of his
woes by saying bitterly that if there was
a bottle of lysol around he’d swamp the
lot. “You don’t want to adopt that atti-
tude,” said the other earnestly, with a
gentle reproach, the while he went on
patiently sharpening the knife; “there’ll
be better days. Why, probably tomor-
row your toothache will be gone, you’ll
be tossed another pair of trilbies and
you’ll have a full tucker-bag and smokes.
Don’t let one day’s knockbacks get you
down.” After an hour or so “Tarcutta,”
greatly heartened, went his way. The
next day, while snoozing on a full
stomach on the pub verandah, he was
awakened by excited voices, and de-
manded to know what the fuss was about.
“Gripes, haven’t you heard?” asked one
elongated resident. “I just helped the
John bring him in. A fat, ginger-headed
cove along the road committed suicide —
slit his throat from ear to ear!”
"Mummy's in the bath, Mr. Smith—she ses to come in an' sit down."
"I knew that salesman would never make a gunner."
“Eureka”: The best bait for a fox is
an eel stuffed with strychnine and left
lying on a creek bank. Reynard isn’t a
bad fisherman himself, and can easily
pull small eels out of the shallow water
in bush creeks,
* * * #
“Uramao”: The best-preserved speci-
men of the takake —and the only one in
MX. —is in Otago Museum at Dunedin
(B. 28/4/’43). Two are in the British
Museum ; the only other one was bought
by a German named Oscar Lobel in
London for 100 guineas and presented
to the Dresden Museum. The three
specimens in Europe have faded very
much. The takake is protected by Act
of Parliament, which imposes heavy
penalties on anyone in possession of the
bird, its skin, feathers or eggs.
# #
“Horseless Horseman”: Euston, that
oldest town on the Lower Murray, has a
permanent place in Aboriginalities with
its river bends and 70,000-acre paddocks.
And what colorful beginnings it had.
First visited by Sturt on his memorable
boat journey in 1830 and five years later
by Major Mitchell when in an affray
near by he shot seven blacks, it was after-
wards a camp for the first mobs over-
landing from Melbourne to Adelaide.
The Morey brothers took up Euston
station in 1846, and “Big John” McKin-
lay settled at Ki alongside. The town
came into being in 1849 with the arrival
of a Lands Commissioner, and was soon
two pubs, a courthouse and land-office
strong; the blocks for Wentworth and
Deniliquin were sold there. McKinlay
and the Moreys having taken up the back
country as far north as Wilcannia, 300
miles away on the Darling, and finding
difficulty in getting stores from Mel-
bourne, the S.A. Government became in-
terested in river navigation. In Septem-
ber, ’53, the Lady Augusta arrived from
Adelaide with the Governor aboard, and
within two years Euston was a port of
consequence. In 1860 the Burke and
Wills expedition left the Murray five miles
away, and 18 months later McKinlay was
chosen to lead a relief party. Bertram
and Taylor afterwards took over Euston
station, putting in a scour, boiling-down
works and their own counting-house by
the homestead, which was h.q. for a
dozen places as far north as Salisbury
Downs, but Euston never grew beyond a
township, though it was once suggested
as the possible site for the Federal capi-
tal. The town was famous for its fine
blacks, most of whom were over six feet.
One, Tom Pickle, was Australia’s best
roughrider; another, Whorlong, threw
boomerangs for the edification of Queen
Victoria.
* * => *
“Old-timer”; Barney prided himself
on being a man of forethought; hence
his survey of the surroundings of his
camp. “Yair,” he told his old dog, “I’ve
just about used up all the wood lyin’
round here, Nigger, an’ if we don't do
somethin’ about it we’ll either hafta start
cartin’ wood a long way or move the
flamin’ camp f where there’s some
wood.” During the next week or so he
and Nigger kept their eyes open for a
good camp up or down the river, but
somehow there was no spot quite as
comfortable as the one they were in. So
Barney decided that if he cut down a big
gum near by it Would soon be dry
enough to burn. He rowed 11 miles to
Tapalin and spent half a day there
sharpening his axe on the station grind-
stone, then rowed back. Then he picked
his tree and gave it a few preliminary
chops. He left it to go and set some
traps and fix up his night-lines and other
jobs. It was a week before he got at the
tree again, and he had barely marked it
when the Borneo brothers dropped in,
accompanied by a few bottles, and in-
vited Barney to join them in a fiesta. Two
days later he farewelled the brothers and
set about catching up on his traps and
lines. Almost another week went before
he resumed on that tree, but this time
he opened a fair scarf in it before decid-
ing jt was about time he got his skins
into Euston. He was away a week.
When he returned the boss from Tapalin
was waiting to take him to the station to
help with the shearing. Seven weeks
later he got back, and that night the
river came over the banks and Barney
had to get himself and dog and camp to
a hill a mile away. “It just shows y’,
Nigger,” he said. “I might ha’ gorn an’
wasted me time cuttin’ all that flamin’
tree down.”
* *
“Louden”: Old Rusty locked the door
of his slab kipsey, cast a final distrustful
glance at the two town youths stretched
on the ground in front of their tent
farther up the river and then went to
wait for the mailcar. As soon as he was
out of sight the youths broke camp
quickly and, dumping their gear into his
flat-bottomed boat, rowed smartly down-
stream. An hour later the old chap re-
turned. He was strolling over to where the
townies had camped when he discovered
the flattie was gone. Dashing back to
the kipsey he emerged with his loaded
d.-b. gun. Pointing it down the reach
he pulled both triggers simultaneously
and startled all the birds. His fury having
abated, he set to work to build a raft.
Early next morning he fixed a bag sail
to the mast, placed a kerosene-case con-
taining nap, tucker and three nice cod
aboard and pushed off. About midday
he dropped anchor alongside the aban-
doned boat, which was tied to a stake in
the mud near the town bridge. After
inspecting the boat he shouldered his
pack and went to his favorite pub, where
he was always certain to sell his fish.
An abo. station hand footing it back to
his job after a bender saw the boat and
took it, Rusty’s language when he re-
turned to the river and found the boat
gone frightened the mob of gipsies off the
camping-ground on the opposite bank,


LYSAG
&
PROOF
100% Australian-made
from Australian Material
Wire Netting
Wire Nails
Our Netting and Other Products are
known throughout the Commonwealth
as of the highest standard.
LOOK for Oar MARKER in
every Roll of Netting .
LYSAGHTS
Fencing Wire
f ' '
, ,<■ ■•• s
&*-. . . . ■>-■•?
• r "
w., Vv;..
■*&*& k
£%l
Si*
ESTABLISHED 1884
Barbed Wire
Zinc Oxide
QUALITY GUARANTEED.
Obtainable from all the Leading
Merchants, Storekeepers and Agents.
Lysaght Bros. & Co. Pty., Ltd.
Head Office; 17-19 Bridge Street, Sydney.
SPECIFY "LYSAGHT'S" WIRE, WIRE NETTING. ETC.
THE MAN ON
THE LAND
"DON'T WORRY, I'M SENDING IT TO
GRAZCOS."
The Piece-picker.
“R.N.”: Good skirting of the fleeces is
almost as important as good classing,
since the best skirtings sell to within a
couple of pence per pound of the fleece-
wool and sometimes make more than
poor fleeces. Skirtings may amount to a
third or a quarter of the entire clip.
If the fleeces are free of burr or very
burry—both conditions making for only
light skirting—a piece-picker isn’t needed.
The skirtings will be short and can go
straight into the bin as first pieces. But
mostly it s necessary to make two lines.
The picker should have his pieces wool-
side up, so that he can spot stain or seed.
His top line should 6e made up of the
bright, bulky wool of good length, and
there should always be a clear difference
between it and the lesser line. Stained
wool must be rigorously culled from the
pieces, and a bag should be handy to
take it. Brand the top line “Broken” and
the lower “Ist pieces.” Don’t make a
line of necks from a small clip, as the less
variation and the fewer lines the better.
It isn’t sufficient that the piece-picker
is a good man. His work should be done
at a wool table in a good light, with a
couple of bins in front of him. The
fronts of the bins should be guarded for
at least a foot up from the floor tvith
boards or hessian to keep out locks and
rubbish.
In the thick of it the piece-picker is
pretty busy. He shouldn’t be hampered
by lazy shedhands who won’t keep the
floor clean about his feet. He needs
room to work, and it’s a good idea to
have an extra table on which rolled fleeces
can be dumped while the classer is off
the table, as he very often is in a small
shed.
Sheepskins.
“Sheepo”: If you want full prices look
after the skins.
Avoid cutting the pelt. Remove all
fatty and meaty pieces before drying, and
dry by hanging on a rack or wires in a
shed where they’re protected from sun
and rain. Lay or hang the skirt from
neck to tail.
When the skin —notice the points par-
ticularly—is thoroughly dry, paint with
a solution of arsenic and soda to stop
weevils. To store, fold each skin wool-
side out and place out of the reach of
dogs. Examine each week, and if weevils
are present paint each skin again with
the arsenic solution. Before pressing for
market cut off all, shanks. If you’re not
using the woolpress lay a couple of boards
on the ground above the wires and pack
the folded skins head to tail. Number
in each bundle depends on wool growth ;
avoid ungainly and top-heavy bundles.
Place two more boards on top of the
bundle and tighten the wires as much as
possible before tying. Tag and brand
each bundle legibly, showing on the tag
the number of skins. Don’t forget to
advise the broker the weight of each
bundle and number of skins it contains.
Sheepskins sometimes “walk” in transit.
P.I. in Victoria.
“Cohuna Charlie”: W, D. Andrew,
Victorian Agricultural Department’s
assistant agrostologist, notes in the re-
port of the P.I. League that experiments
in pasture improvement carried out dur-
ing the past 14 years show the widespread
lack of phosphates in Victorian soil and
the quick response of pastures where
superphosphate has been supplied.
The shortage of phosphate is a primary
rather than an induced shortage. To make
good a primary deficiency by using an
artificial fertiliser means heavier growth,
which, in turn, means heavier drain on
soil foods and, if the pasture is removed
by cutting or grazing, a serious drain on
soil minerals. If the policy is persisted
in it means adding a secondary or in-
duced deficiency to the primary one. Of
course, if the crop could be left to return
to the soil the balance would remain
normal.
Trials have shown that what is taken
from the soil can be got back. Under
ordinary grazing 80 to 90 per cent, of the
minerals in the pasture is returned
through animal manure, but when stock
are herded often in one place, as with
dairy-cows for milking, a lot of the
“Sergeant or no sergeant —I still think it's your turn to open the gate."
manure never gets back to the paddock.
Many farmers gather up and scatter the
manure at intervals, but unless provision
is made to gather the urine one of the
most valuable sources of potash is lost.
A manure-pit for gathering all forms
of excreta, so that it can be taken out in
a tank and spread over the pasture, is the
surest system.
Where pasture is mown for hay the
paddocks show a rapid loss of potash.
Two crops of meadow-hay left a marked
deficiency on light soil near Timboon.
It took ten years for chocolate soil at
Callignee to show effects from the same
treatment, but it did show the deficiency
eventually.
Mostly pasture improvement and the
usual topdressing and renovating are
regarded as soil improvers, and so they
are if properly treated from a grazing
and hay-making point of view. But once
the produce is taken right away from
the paddock and nothing at all put back,
soil fertility begins to go down. This
particularly applies to leguminous crops,
which are rich in potash and therefore,
under mismanagement, can cause a
greater potash deficiency than cereals.
Lucerne in Queensland.
“Downer”: There isn’t nearly enough
of it on the western Downs and in the
Maranoa, but those who have it mean
to have more. Lucerne’s value as graz-
ing for both sheep and cattle in districts
outside recognised cropping areas is being
proved about Wallumbilla, Coolumboola,
Guluguba and other parts on cleared
scrub and forest country.
Lucerne can adapt itself to a wide
variety of soils. It will stand up to dry
spells once it is established and carefully
handled. Part of the trouble with failures
is too heavy seeding. Three or four-
pounds of seed an acre is plenty in the
type of country mentioned. There are no
fixed rules about sowing, but, except in
self-mulching soil, nothing deeper than
fin. is likely to strike well. A lot depends
on choice of time, for the stand that gets
a good rain after sowing has won half
the battle.
Broadcasting often gives an uneven
sowing because the seed is too small to
allow an even sweep. It can be made
fairly even by broadcasting up and down
the paddock and then across it. Only a
light harrowing is needed to cover the
seed.
In dairy country on the Maranoa,
where only small stands are likely and
intense cultivation is generally followed,
it’s not a bad idea to sow it in rows about
18in. apart. This allows for inter-row
cultivation after rain, and a patch thus
established is pretty hard to knock over
by dry weather. Settlers in pear country
could do a lot worse than give lucerne
a trial.
Fencing Posts.
“Farmer Bill”: Trees are most easily
barked in spring, and you’ll forestall
fungi and borer attacks by barking as
soon as the tree is felled. Strip the inner
bark of pines.
Timber needs seasoning for at least six
months. Pile the posts in a shady spot
where wind can circulate through them.
Avoid damp ground, living or rotting
vegetation. Unseasoned posts shrink or
split after soaking, cause the envelope of
treated wood to break and make it easy
for fungi to start.
Creosote’s the best preservative. Soak-
ing in hot and cold creosote guarantees
the right absorption and penetration. For
a treating plant use two 90-gallon drums.
Cut one end out of each and use one for
the hot bath and one for the cold. Mount
the hot drum on firebricks and place
over a fire pit. Keep well away from
buildings to reduce fire risk ; coverings
are needed to keep rain out of the tanks.
Fill the hot tank to within six inches
of the top and heat to IBOdeg. Soak the
post in the hot bath first. This expands
the wood cells. Transferring to the cold
bath contracts the cells and lets the creo-
sote enter the wood. Amount of pre-
servative absorbed by each post varies
from igal. to Igal.
Butts of posts from eucalypts, wattles
and pines should be immersed in the hot
bath for three and five hours and one
hour respectively and in the cold bath
for two, two and a half and half hour.
Soak the tops of posts for half the time
allowed for the butt.
a
Hints for the Farm.
“W. Court”: In heavy grass country
burn paddocks yearly, not only tp en-
courage growth of new grass, but to
arrest the spread of weeds. Many weeds
are poisonous to horses. Wild cotton,
stinking mint, wild gherkin, wild passion-
fruit, variegated thistle, poison peach and
the young growth of lantana and zamia
are a few. Grass-tree is harmless.
“Hux”: With lead, phosphorus or
arsenic poisoning symptoms are much the
same. The animal may become groggy ;
then the skin’s affected, becomes leathery,
shrivels or develops bad scabs. Often it
appears bloodless. In cows the teats are
hard and dry. Put the animal on to good
food and give this tonic twice a day in
half-pint doses: lib. each of Epsom salts
and hyposulphite of soda, 4oz. each of
powdered aloes, powdered ginger, ground
cloves and ground pepper, Igal. of
molasses and 3gal. water.
“C.H.”: During the first four weeks
give orphan pigs sweet whole milk from
a good cow six to eight times a day.
Don’t add cream or sugar, A quart of
milk per head per day is enough. For
the first few days feed the milk at blood-
heat. Use a nursing bottle till the piglets
can be taught to drink from the trough.
Once they can eat solids feed meat or
linseed meal to balance the milk. Warm
housing, clean bedding and lots of water
are needed from the start.
“M.”; Don’t let the newly-bought pigs
run with the others on the farm for a
while. The gferm of swine fever often
lies dormant in healthy pigs and attacks
them when resistance is lowered, such as
after transportation or exposure in sale-
yards. Buy only strong, healthy pigs,
and keep them isolated for three weeks
at least and on ground lower than the
other pig quarters so that there’ll be no
contamination from drainage.
“Mullengah”; Isolate sows that have
aborted, and where there’s a whitish dis-
charge use a warm saline solution —an
ounce of salt to a gallon of water —to
irrigate the genital tract. Continue daily
till the discharge ceases. Have an
agglutination test for abortion.
“B.”: Metal of tanks that is wearing
badly won’t stand scraping. Treat holes
and weak places with waterproof paint
and stretch cheesecloth over it. Let it
dry. Add another coat of paint and an-
other layer of cheesecloth. When that
dries paint again. Finish by painting over-
patches on inside of tank. It will give
three or four years’ wear,
“L.G.”: To make greenhide or chrome
sole leather clean the skin and free from
hair in the usual way, mix a solution of
5 p.c, bichromate of potash and 2\ p.c.
sulphuric acid, estimated on wet weight
of the hide. Steep the hide in it till it
turns yellow. Spread flat and drain over-
night. Next day place in a bath of 74
p.c. ordinary hypo and 2\ p.c. sulphuric
acid, again based on original wet weight.
Curing’s finished when the hide turns
green. Properly tanned greenhide will
stand boiling without going hard or curl-
ing up. To make waterproof immerse in
paraffin wax 'at a low temperature.
“The Old Chook”; That portable
orchard burner (B. 2/6/’43) would be
better with wheels. We use a hopper
2ft. x 3ft. on top, 2ft. x Ift. at bottom
and 3ft. deep, mounted on a wheel-
barrow-type frame, with the single wheel
replaced by the forecarriage of a culti-
vator. On,any but the boggiest ground
it is easily fnoved by one man.


Australian, Mercantile, Land & Finance
Company, Limited
(INCORPORATED IN ENGLAND IN 1863)
WOOL, FAT STOCK, STORE AND STUD STOCK,
PRODUCE AND PROPERTY SALESMEN
General Manager for Australia: R. SINCLAIR SMITH.
ADVANCES MADE ON GRAZING PROPERTIES, ON STOCK, AND ON
CONSIGNMENTS OF WOOL, SKINS, HIDES, TALLOW, ETC.
LICENSED AUCTIONEERS, STOCK AND STATION, AGENTS.
SYDNEY OFFICE: A. M. MURDOCH, Managed
ALSO AT MELBOURNE, BRISBANE, NEWCASTLE, WAGGA, HENTY, HAY, MOREE,
TOWNSVILLE, CHARLEVILLE. BUENOS AIRES, LONDON.
GENERAL AGENTS IN NEW SOUTH WALES FOR NORTHERN ASSURANCE CO..- LTD
■
◄
ẅ
but civilian requirements of Aus-
tralian-made Radiotrons have not been
neglected. Most widely used types are
available, but if the particular valve you
want is not obtainable, consult your Radio-
tron dealer regarding an alternative type.
RADIOTRON
THE WORLD'S STANDARD RADIO VALVE
AMALGAMATED WIRELESS VALVE CO. PTY. LTD.
Ruwolt
nil inili'ißl n llliliwii
llliill
•••
mm
m
■HWMi
■
The first 25-Pdr. Gun Howitzer mode in Austrolio.
As Major Co-ordinating Contractors in Victoria,
Ruwolt’s, together with many Sub-contractors, have the dis-
tinction of producing the first 25-Pdr. Gun Howitzer ever
made in Australia.
Since that gun was successfully tested, many more have
been produced at Ruwolt’s.
Although now mainly engaged on munition work we
are also able to execute much of the requirements for the
essentia! Metal, Paper and Rubber Industries.
Then, when Australia has successfully overcome its
present difficulties, we will again be in a position to im-
mediately attend to all your requirements, similarly to what
we have done in the past.
CHARLES RUWOLT PTY. LTD.
530 Victoria Street, Richmond, 1.1
Victoria, AUSTRALIA.
UNCABLED ADDITIONS
Uncle Sam Not Buying.
(Condensed from “United Stales News.”)
Something approaching a revolution in
trade is going on in the midst of war.
The strong trend toward self-sufficiency
within the United States and throughout
the Western Hemisphere already is lead-
ing to the question of how, in the post-
war world, the United States will be able
to find any need for the raw materials
that other nations must sell to it or
starve.
The United States was the world’s
greatest customer for natural rubber
grown by the Dutch and British in the
Netherlands East Indies and Malaya. It
took 800,000 tons in 1940 alone. But
now the United States is going to be able
to turn out 1,000,000 tons of synthetic
rubber each year within its own borders.
It is agreeing to take all the natural
rubber South America will send for
several years. So, when the war is over,
natural rubber from the plantations of
the Far East may go begging as far as
its biggest customer is concerned.
Silk was the basis for U.S.-Japanese
trade. But now the United States is
getting along with nylon and rayon and
other synthetic yarns. Their production
has been more than tripled since silk
imports were cut off. The silk-spinning
industry’s 200,000 workers have found
new jobs, the mills have been converted
to other work. It’s anybody’s guess
whether silk ever will come back, and to
what extent. Yet it’s Japan’s most im-
portant export industry.
Jute is being replaced by cotton in
baling and in sandbags. India is glad
to send us all it can, but ships are lack-
ing. So other sources are being de-
veloped.
Our pre-war deficiency in vegetable
oils now has been largely overcome. We
depended in peace-time on the Philip-
pines, the Netherlands East Indies and
Manchuria for oils from coconuts,
palms, soybeans. But our own vegetable
oil output has been increased from
9.000. pounds in 1940 to the
11.000. pounds hoped for this
year. Our increased production of soy-
beans, cottonseed, linseed and peanut oils
more than compensates for the loss of
imports from the Far East, and we now
send vast amounts abroad to Russia,
Britain and other allies. At present we
turn out more soybean oil than does
Manchuria, which once led the world.
Olive oil, which normally comes from
Europe at the- rate of 60,000,000 to
70.000. pounds a year, will be pro-
duced in California this year to the
amount of 10,000,000 pounds, or more
than twice the amount made there in
1940.
Industrial alcohol was made largely
from piolasses imported from Cuba. In
1941 only 3,000,000 gallons were made
from grain. By 1945 we will make
200.000. gallons from grain, more
than all we used in a normal year. So
Cuba’s molasses may face a competitor
after war in grain, and processes for tak-
ing alcohol from wood waste loom as
new competitors for both grain and
molasses.
Camphor, which we used to import
from Japan, now is made synthetically
from turpentine.
In the summer of 1940 we were making
30.000. pounds of aluminium a month,
1.000. pounds of magnesium. By the
end of this year we will have capacity
for 180,000,000 pounds of aluminium a
month and 4,000,000 pounds of mag-
nesium. Post-war outlets for this tre-
mendous production will pose some head-
aches for the Government and for pri-
vate industry, particularly, producers of
copper, that must compete with the new
metals.
Under the stimulus of war we have
compressed into two or three years
developments that might have taken
decades. It is the only safeguard against
having too little too late for the war,
but it holds the promise that in some
spots we may find ourselves with too
much too soon for any profitable ex-
change after the war.
British Submarine Successes.
(Condensed from an article by Johannes Steel
in New York “Post.”)
During the Tunisian campaign German
and Italian merchant shipping in the
Mediterranean took a real beating.
These losses have seriously depleted a
reserve of 4,500,000 tons, all that was
available to Germany and Italy on Jan, 1,
1943.
From the beginning of the war to the
end of 1942, losses amounted to well over
7.500.000 tons, or almost precisely the
equivalent of the combined German and
Italian merchant fleets before the war.
Some of these losses were made good
by shipping from conquered countries
and from new launchings amounting to
a total of 4,500,000 tons. In other words,
4.500.000 tons, less the losses inflicted
upon Axis shipping in the Tunisian cam-
paign, is all that remains of the German
and Italian merchant fleets.
Of the available targets in the Mediter-
ranean in a given period, British sub-
marines sank 43 per cent. In a compar-
able period, out of a much larger Allied
target. U-boats sank only some 20 per
cent. In the same period, U-boats sank
some 4 per cent, of ships attacked in
convoy, while British submarines sank
well above 20 per cent, of ships attacked
in convoy, and this by individual hunting
and not in wolfpacks.
Therefore, British submarine com-
manders have been far more successful
than the Germans. The U-boats have
taken a numerically higher toll, but this
was exclusively due to the abundance of
targets.
The average British submarine com-
mander has had some 15 or 16 years in
the Navy, five of which have been in
submarine training, before he is given
command of a submarine. The com-
mander of the German U-boat U 570,
who surrendered on his first voyage, had
no U-boat experience; of the U 501,
neither the commander nor the officers
had had operational experience.
Numerous similar examples can be
given. This lack of training shows up
particularly when submarine meets sub-
marine. The British submarine Upholder
alone sank three U-boats.
These facts, together with the dis-
closure of Japanese shipping losses from
American submarines, show that the pic-
ture is not one-sided; though, judg-
ing from the publicity, it sometimes looks
as if there were only German submarines
prowling the sea lanes.
For the Small Countries.
Condensed from London “Nineteenth
Century.”)
Much is said about the need for co-
operation between England and Russia.
For what specific purposes should Britain
co-operate with Russia after the war?
To prevent Germany from preparing
yet another war, to preserve the indepepd-
ence and the territorial integrity of all the
war-time Allies and to maintain the
security of the Bosphorus and the Dar-
danelles.
Military co-operation between England
and Russia is immensely difficult, because
Russia is accessible by only two long,
devious and, in war-time, precarious
routes. But accessibility will be estab-
lished if relations between Russia, Turkey
and England are cordial. This they can
only be if no threat to Turkish independ-
ence is tolerated. Turkey must remain
the custodian of the Straits —her inde-
pendence is the condition of their
security. It is also a condition of
security in the region comprising Iran,
Iraq, Syria, Palestine and even Egypt—
where insecurity would be a threat to the
Empire.
A further purpose of co-operation is
stability in the Balkans. Only if each of
the Balkan Powers is restored to inde-
pendence and creates internal unity;
only if, while independent of one
another, the Balkan Powers nevertheless
form a specifically Balkan Collectivity,
will the Balkans be stable, will they be
immune from interference on the part of
outside Powers,
Balkan stability and immunity cannot
be achieved without a strong Yugo-
slavia. The antagonisms between Serbs,
Croats and Slovenes have become such
that, of all the distressful countries in
Europe, Yugoslavia is the most distress-
ful. What is desperately needed is an
overriding authority.
It seems clear that the man around
whom internal authority must be built up
is Draja Mihailovich, the leader of the
authentic Yugoslav revolution that over-
threw the Government that compounded
with the Germans. When he and his
chetniks opened the struggle against the
invader they were attacked by the parti-
san's. Only when Russia was attacked
did the partisans, who are under Com-
munist influence, turn against the
invader, though without abandoning the
fight against the chetniks. Russia en-
courages the partisans, as is but natural;
but the partisans, precisely because they


\
vKS
m
\
From behind a
cloudbank swoops a
twin-engined instrument of
destruction ... designed and built by an organisation
whose aim is to speed the hour of Victory and to protect,
as far as possible, the lives of Empire
airmen. The plane—a Mosquito Bomber, built
ty TKe de Havilland Aircraft
■
Company Ltd., Hatfield, England.
w
AIRCRAFT PTY. LTD. - SYDNEY
OH2
•.#:c
m
Mk
10 for 1/1
20 for 2/2
ŵ
Save - or Slave. Put
all you've got into £lO
National Savings Bonds.
Carreras Ltd.-154 Years' Reputation for Quality
5065 8
owe allegiance to an outside Power,
Russia, do not represent the vital prin-
ciple of Balkan independence and im-
munity. It is only through the Serbs and
Mihailovich that the chaos can be ended.
Balkan stability is in the interest of
Russia no less than of England, seeing
that it is essential to the security of the
Straits, the eastern Mediterranean and
Central Europe. It is one of the princi-
pal defences against the revival of Ger-
man and Italian imperialism. A strength-
ening of British policy in support of
Mihailovich in co-operation with Russia,
whose power to restrain the partisans is
almost absolute, can alone give the Bal-
kans the stability that is a Balkan, a
British, a Russian and a general European
necessity.
The Russians are unconvinced that
there will be no reconciliation between
England and Germany when the war is
over, if not before. So they do what
they deem necessary to secure their
western borders. They even have the
approval of the leading English news-
paper. The “Times” in a recent article
suggested nothing less than this—that the
nations extending from the Baltic to the
/Egean become a Russian sphere of in-
fluence. The “Times” also proposed that
these nations must have Governments
friendly to Russia, thus conceding the
right of Russian intervention in the in-
ternal affairs of, say, Czechoslovakia.
Whether the “Times” holds that this
right is to be general—whether Russia
must have a Government friendly to, say
Poland, and what, if she declines to have
such a Government, is to be done about
it —is not stated.
The “Times” expressed disapproval of
small nations. It referred to some
“20 separate and jarring military and
economic sovereignties.” The number
20 would comprise all the European
nations that cannot be classed as great
Powers. We do not recall that Denmark,
Switzerland, Holland “jarred” on one
another or on anyone, or that they dis-
tinguished themselves by being “mili-
tary.” This attitude towards small
nations has become fashionable. But
one only has to consider how immense
the contribution made by so many of the
smaller countries to art, letters, thought,
and even to politics, and what a leaven
they are in every continent, how they
make for diversity, balance and, in a last
analysis, freedom, to be altogether un-
able to share this contempt.
But there are pragmatic reasons, also,
why the smaller or weaker countries can-
not be allowed to disappear. The exist-
ence of Holland and Belgium always has
been a vital British interest. The security
of the Mediterranean demands that Italy
cease to be a great Power in the military
sense. The security of the Straits of
Gibraltar and of the eastern Atlantic
demands the continued independence of
Spain and Portugal. The security of the.
northern Atlantic and of the North Sea
demands that Denmark and Norway
remain independent, and that Iceland and
Spitzbergen do not come under the. con-
trol of any great Power.
The independence of nearly all the
European nations which are not great
Powers is, therefore, a vital interest of
England’s.' Without it she is doomed.
Is Russia doomed if the nations of the
zone between the Baltic and the Aegean
retain their independence? The answer
is that she is not. None of these nations
is a menace to her. All of them put to-
gether could not be a menace.
Poland is not one of the smaller
nations, but she is hopelessly inferior in
men and material to either of her two
great neighbors, and her strategic situa-
tion is very unfavorable. If Poland is
reduced to the condition of a mutilated
vassal the whole eastern European order
will be transformed.
How can such a calamity be averted?
By co-operation between England,
Russia, Poland and Czechoslovakia in re-
establishing the invaded countries within
the frontiers they held before the signa-
ture of the Munich agreement.
There is a complete identity of purpose
between the policies of Great Britain and
of Russia with regard to France. Both
wish France to be strong and indepen-
dent. Europe needs simple justice and
security. The nations want their inde-
pendence and people want to be left
alone.
One Lady to Another.
( Condensed from an article by Helen Essary
in the Washington “Times-Herald.”)
When I finished reading Mrs. Roose-
velt’s column “My Day,” I found myself
feeling a trifle ill.
The President’s wife was telling of
adventure in San Francisco. She went to
the Kaiser shipyards. She cut “a beauti-
fully decorated birthday cake.” She met
with her friend, Mayris Chaney, the
dancer.
She visited a naval hospital and saw
dozens of men without arms and legs,
with burns, concussions and “innumer-
able other ailments.” She ate an
extremely good lunch and ate too much,
really, having worked up her “more than
ordinarily good appetite” while walking
through the hospital wards. “So it is just
as well that I don’t walk through so many
hospital wards every morning.” (One
must keep one’s “figger.”)
Then she went to another hospital
“grown by leaps and bounds.” She used
to think it was a shame not to go through
every ward in these hospitals. Now she
realises that there are so many hospitals
she simply couldn’t do this. “It would
take many days, really, to go through all
the wards and stop to speak to each
man.”
“We ended by having tea with Vice-
Admiral J. W. Greenslade,” wrote Mrs.
Roosevelt, “and spent the evening with
my sons and daughter-in-law, and saw
the newest grandchild for the first time.”
I do admire Mrs. Roosevelt for many
splendid things she has done. But —and
this is a very big but —I did feel a trifle
ill when she spoke of cake and legless
men and tea and concussions of the
brain and of seeing the new grandchild
and miles of suffering human beings and
too much lunch, all in the same jolly
breath.
Of all the horrible features of war
one of the most horrible is the cold-
blooded attitude of the civilian and of
those in high places who escape scot-
free.
Admitting that some of us are as
brutal as panthers, it still does not be-
come the wife of the President of the
United States, the Commander-in-Chief
of the armed forces, to look unshaken
on wounded men who have been put into
their misery by this country’s participa-
tion in the world war.
It shocks any sensibility to have Mrs.
Roosevelt turn legless men and tea with
the admiral and the rest into a “My Day”
holiday. Mrs. Roosevelt’s “My Day”
remark that a soldier or anyone else
accepts cheerfully the loss of limbs or
crippling wounds just isn’t so.
This war is too frightful to be spoken
of in Mrs. Roosevelt’s chirrupy fashion.
It should not be spoken of except with
the greatest solemnity by the administra-
tors who might possibly have kept it
away.
This is not Mr. war. Nor
is it Mrs. Roosevelt’s war. \
If Mrs. Roosevelt had realised this
she could not have approached the
extremely good food with such enthusi-
asm that she said gayly: “It is just as
well I don’t walk through so many hos-
pital wards every morning.”
I don’t mean to imply that the sight
of the wounded gave Mrs. Roosevelt an
appetite. I do mean to say that if she
had accepted a proper responsibility for
the hospitals that “are growing in leaps
and bounds, and would take many days
really to go through,” she would not
have been able to eat for a fortnight.
Nor would tea with the admiral and the
sight of the newest grandchild have had
any charm.
Dragnet Digest.
(Condensed from various acknowledged
sources.)
The fleets of American bombers and British
bombers are attacking the productive system
not of a single country, but of a great empire.
The empire has meshed all industry into pro-
duction for war, and has a working population
of 165,000,000. — “United States News.”
% * * *
Do you remember the little story that papa
used to tell us when we were kids, that the way
to catch a bird was to put salt on its tail?
I’m always reminded of it when 1 read the
cock-and-bull stories of how the soup-and-fish
lotus-eaters are going to charm all hate out
of the world the day after the war and give us
a “federation of the world,” “United States of
Europe,” a “Parliament of Man” and so forth.
What salt are they going to use? What abra-
cadabra are they going to intone to dissolve
the hatreds of centuries?— Benjamin DeCas-
seres in N.Y. “Journal American.”
* * # *
The real picture of the United States at this
stage is that of a nation boxed out of all main
lines of attack on Japan. This country is boxed
out of an attack through Siberia because
Russia is not in the war. It is boxed out of
using China as a base because China is cut off
from all but a trickle by air of American war
supplies. It is boxed out of India because the
British fleet, controlling in waters west of Sin-
gapore, is not pushing the movement of war
supplies to India. It is boxed out of Aus-
tralia because Australian law forbids the use
of Australian troops, other than volunteers,
outside of Australia, New Guinea and near-by
islands. — “United States News.”
* * * *
A new political gangsterdom has arisen. It
can be observed at the incessant meetings that
go on throughout the country under pretence
of helping China, extolling Russia, abetting the
Congress party or demanding a “Second Front
in the West.” In recent meetings the pretence
has been dropped and resolutions are passed
demanding the suppression of this or that
political group as “Fascist.” The confinement
without trial of Englishmen under Regulation
188, so far from arousing widespread protest,
as it would have during the last war, is not
considered sufficiently drastic by the promoters
of the new intolerance. Honored names are
vilified in public meetings, and in the House
of Commons member after member —always
owing allegiance to the Left —will demand this
or that person be interned, or that “a ban”
be placed on this or that book or journal which
happens to have displayed a critical attitude.
The “Fascism of the Left” is engaged in organ-
ised intimidation. It has the support of a certain
public, which lends it a mob-like character and
the appearance of a certain popularity that
lends it an undue influence, especially with the
meaner sort of politician to whom it seems
to offer a temporary passage on the journey of
personal advancement. — London “Nineteenth
Century


Public Notices.
I, GIOVANNI RE, of Italian nationality, horn
at Salina, Italy, and resident 32 years in Aus-
tralia, now residing at 227 Glenmore Road,
1 aldington, N.S.W., intend to apply for natu-
ralisation under the Nationality Act 1920-1936.
I, PHYLLIS DA PRA, Australian-born, Italian
by marriage, born at Sydney, N.S.W., and resi-
dent all my life in Australia, now residing at
457 Bronte Road, Waverley, N.S.W., intend to
apply for naturalisation under the Nationality
Act 1920-1936.
I? CATARINA PAVONI, also known as Cata-
™ Taranto, of Italian nationality, born at
Ahcudi xn the Province of Messina, country of
Italy, and resident for 30 years in Australia,
now residing at 264 Enmore Road, Marrick-
v , \ T m * etK * to a PPIy for naturalisation under
the Nationality Act of 1920-1936.
Personal and Missing Friends.
PHOEBE AMELIA WILTSHIRE {nee FYSH),
last heard of at 31 Arthur Street, Fairfield. —
Will the person abovenamed communicate with
P. J- RIDGEWAY, Solicitors, 379 Collins
Styeet, Melbourne, immediately?
Legal Notices.
STATUTORY NOTICE TO NEXT-OF-KIN.
RE JOHANNA TROTTER, also known as
FLORENCE MARGT. SYLVESTER, late of
85 Neil Street, Toowoomba, in the State of
Queensland, deceased, Widow—NOTICE is
hereby given that all persons claiming to be
next-of-kin of the abovenamed Johanna Trotter
(also known as Florence Margt. Sylvester, late
of 85 Neil Street, Toowoomba, in the State of
Queensland, deceased, who died on or about
the Twentieth day of September, 1942 a.d., at
Toowoomba, in the said State, are hereby re-
quired to forward proof of their relationship
to THE PUBLIC CURATOR, Brisbane, on
or before the Thirtieth day of September, 1943,
and that after the expiration of the last-
mentioned date the Public Curator will proceed
to distribute the assets of the said deceased
amongst the parties entitled thereto, having
regard only to the claims of which he shall
then have had notice. Dated this Twenty-third
day of June, 1943.—R. J. S. BARNETT, Public
Curator, Brisbane.
ADVERTISEMENT FOR CLAIMANTSInOT
BEING CREDITORS.
PURSUANT to an Order of the Supreme Court
of Victoria made in the action 1943 No. 81 in
which John Humphries is Plaintiff and Frances
Ellen Mayne and Elizabeth Mayne Elliott De-
fendants the persons claiming to be next-of-kin
to David Edward O’Neill the son of Edward
O'Neill and Mary O’Neill (formerly Beaumont)
and who was born in New York in or about
the year 1865 and was late of No. 33 Alma
Road Caulfield in the State of Victoria Investor
deceased and who died on the Seventeenth day
of May 1920 are by their solicitors on or before
the Twenty-fifth day of October 1943 to come
in and prove their claims at the office of the
Chief Clerk Law Courts Melbourne or in de-
fault thereof they will be peremptorily excluded
from the benefit of the said order. The first
day of November 1943 at eleven o’clock in the
forenoon at the said office is appointed for
adjudicating upon the claims. Dated the Four-
teenth day of June 1943.—ER1C S. VANCE,
Chief Clerk. .
that
zm
the
Let Sense, not Sentiment,
Choose your Executor
In making your Will, the problem of choosing your Executor must be faced.
The claims of friendship may dictate that an old friend should be asked to
undertake this arduous and responsible task. Frankly, it may be a compliment,
but it is not a kindly act. And it is not even a wise one. With the best
intentions, your friend may not be equal to the task. He may even die before
the work is completed. So be wise. Let sense, not sentiment, dictate your
choice of an executor. Investigate the special service offered by Burns Philp
Trust Company Limited a permanent institution under experienced and
capable direction. It has the combined knowledge of finance, taxation, and
investments which no individual executor could be expected to possess. Write
for an explanatory booklet, now.
DIRECTORS— James Burns • Robert John Nosworthy - Lewis Armstrong - Joseph Mitchell
Manager—C. H. Chester
Burns Philp Trust
COMPANY LIMITED
$ BRIDGE S_T. REE T „ SYDNEY
PHONE: B 7901. Box 543 B, G.P.0., Sydney,
BP 14-43
FOOD
WILL WIN THE WAR
AND WRITE THE PEACE f
Claude R. Wickard,
U.S. Secretary for Agriculture.
To feed our fighting men and our civilian population it is
essential that we shall grow hundreds of thousands of acres of cereals
and vegetables. It is the urgent need of Australia ... NOW!
The ploughing, discing, harrowing, sowing and harvesting of these
hundreds of thousands of acres can be done more economically with
Caterpillar Diesel Tractors. It will save manpower, valuable time
and fuel. It will answer the Nation’s call for speed and more speed
in preparing for victory now and prosperity in the future.
In this as well as every other vital job . . . Caterpillar Diesel Tractors
have enlisted for the duration and for the progressive days to come.
The light track-type tread of a Caterpillar tractor beats time and
weather. It enables work to continue even after heavy rain ... if
necessary on a 24-hour a day basis . . gaining important growing
days. Crops yield better from being planted on time in
properly prepared seed beds. Whatever job there is to
do Caterpillar diesel power will do it more economi-
cally and more efficiently.
il
7*
m
-X x ..
'i i - i
■ •■■•_. :;■ ••
. V
WIvX-X
■
JO*
r
«:>:
Caterpillar
11
sv
■ ■-
'
m
W;M
i I
il
sa
Si-:--
I i
m
I i
1
%
si
/:
CUTERPILLII Diesel
Reg. U.S. Pat. Off.
TRACK-TYPE TRACTORS AND WAUGH & JOSEPHSON EARTH-MOVING
EQUIPMENT
Distributors tor New South Wales and Queensland:
WAUGH & JOSEPHSON PTY. LIMITED
Unwin's Bridge Road, St. Peters, Sydney. 'Phone: LA 3321 Marquis Street, Gunnedah.
'Phone: Gunnedah 326 Service Engineers: Mr. J. A. Rathbone. 57 Cambridge Street,
South Grafton; Mr. R. Tweedle, Port Macquarie. 'Phone; Port Macquarie 81; Mr,. D. McDougall,
96 Kincaid Street, Wagga. 'Phone: 2886; 102 Melbourne Street, South Brisbane: 'Phone: J I 486;
Rankin' " Street, innisfail. ‘Phone: Innisfail 475 ,yr 4.33.4 .
ẁ
♦
SERVICE DEPARTMENT.
Information Sought.
General information on making a fish-trap ?
Take three iron hoops 4ft. in diam. and
two pieces of wire-netting each 12ft. 6in. by
42in. wide. Join netting together to make a
strip 7ft. by 12ft. 6in. Fasten this around
hoops to form a cylinder, one hoop at each
end and one in the middle. Close one end
with netting. Then construct a funnel 3ft. 6in.
long, 4ft. in diam. at one end and lOin. to
12in. at the other. Fasten this in trap at
other end to make an entrance, using wire stays
along funnel to make it rigid, and cover with
netting. Leave wire stay ends jagged at small
end of funnel. Attach a piece of strong wire
to each end of trap for tethering. This trap
will catch fresh-water fish up to 91b. A larger
trap can be made with a funnel at each end.
(1) What is the greatest distance an aircraft
can be seen on a clear day without the aid of
a glass? (2) Any method whereby the height
of an aircraft in flight can be judged?
(1) Depends on the observer; Australian
natives in the north of Australia are able to
sight ’planes in some cases several, minutes
before a white man. (2) Distance can be calcu-
lated definitely only by special equipment.
Information Supplied.
To mend “shell” spectacle-frames (B.
16/6/’43), place lens in position and clamp
together as efficiently as possible. Take a
curved piece of ordinary pin or similar-gauge
wire long enough to bridge well across the
join; hold with splinter-removal tweezers and
heat (not red-hot) over a flame. Gently press
it in. Then smear a little acetone-celluloid
solution over the join. It makes a neat job
which will last as long as the frame. —Mulga
Jim.
Brief Answers.
M.O.D. and P.H.: Information unobtainable.
R.L.: To treat sore lips, occurring during
winter, bathe with very hot water when symp-
toms of irritation appear, then apply collodion
to the- affected part R.K.; Redback-spider
bites should be scarified immediately, after
which rub in a strong solution of Condy’s
crystals. If possible, get medical aid
R.V.M.: The extreme breadth of Afghanistan
from north-east to south-west is about 700
miles; length from the Herat frontier to Khyber
Pass 600 miles.... H.L.: The Bulletin was
established in 1880 D.N.: A saucer of milk
containing a little sugar and formalin is a
good poisoner for flies and lasts about four
days T.S.: Mary Pickford was born at
Toronto. She was Gladys Smith V.M.:
Antelope skin is unobtainable. You could
get calf from local tanneries W.McK.:
Information on its way J.E.: The Writers’
and Artists’ Year-Book (1939 edition) contains
a list... .N.S.G.: Printer’s steel and brass rules
are not made in Australia, but have always
been imported. Get in touch with F. T. Wimble
and Co., 35 Clarence-street, Sydney....
E.0.D.: Communications concerning alleged
breaches of the Returned Soldiers and Sailors’
Preference Act should be addressed to H. C.
Nolan, secretary, R.S. and S. Employment
Board, 19 O’Connell-street, Sydney.
Answers to Correspondents
Name and address must appear on the M. S. No
liability is undertaken re contributions voluntarily
submittedj and no MS. will be returned unless
stamps accompany. MS. should be addressed to
the Editor.
The Muse aroused:
D.B.: —
Humanity—pushing, straining, sweating
Towards the objects of their choosing;
Mothers grim, children fretting.
All push on without letting
Other people who are getting
Food and clothing—afraid of losing
The distance gained, and so regretting.
.... J.F.; You’ll do it yet....G.P.: It would
shine in a schoolgirls’ mag., but it’s a frail
blossom outside it G.L.: Try a woman’s
paper... .M.J.: Strengthen and fill out that
last line... .R.M.J.: It’s a crime all right;
but so is the poem M.A.P.: How on earth
could you persuade your ear that “towns’
rhymed with “ruins”? L.D.; The language
is at once highfalutin and hackneyed
A.C.S.: Burn the notes; slay the “born-dawn”
rhyme; forget the “Australasian serial rights”;
and try a daily J.J.W.: There’s no license
these days for saying “did roam” when you
mean “roamed” M.McC.: We, too, “neither
like nor dislike it” H.M.: Sarcasm’s not
enough F.W.F.: Gripes, brother, “Banjo”
Paterson got in somewhat ahead of you with
that one M.M.S.: You’d never have talked
about “Mammon’s service supreme” if you
hadn’t wanted a rhyme (bad) for “queen”....
G.A.: No sting in those mossies W.L.8.:
The last four lines are poetry; the rest moral-
ising D.H.R.: Pleasant; but not distinctive.
F.S.: It doesn’t begin to be a poem
L.M.: Worth trying elsewhere... .J.G.C.:
Close W.L.W.: The printing is superb
W.R.L.: “Several thousand strong, they
marched along.” How would you have liked
it if Marlowe had said “This was the face that
launched several hundred ships”? ... J.L.W.:
It owes too much to Kipling... .C.8.K.: It’s
true that “a little peace and quietness still re-
mains” in Australia; but not where there are
kookaburras, kangaroos, emus, “woolly baby
bears,” wagtails, Dad and Dave, galahs and
parrots “swarming,” sheep, cattle and “perky
long-tailed lambs” P.M.J., C. 0., H.L.,
1.T.E., R.H.D., C.W., K.K., J.V.E., C.H.D.,
E.J.D., A.M.: Missed.


mimMWWoii'
problem
LUDOW I C I' S
have the answer
Illustrating
the LUDOWICI
PIVOT DRIVE
BEHIND the fine quality and the assurance of maximum efficiency in
Ludowici Power Transmission Equipment, stand Ludowici Technicians
—men whose knowledge and experience of every power transmission re-
quirement enable them to give a ready answer to your particular problem.
Our reputation has been built on our willingness to give an unbiassed
opinion and to recommend and supply the most suitable equipment for
each power transmission application.
You have only to ask for our advice to have it freely given.
J. C. LUDOWICI & SON LTD.
11 2 YORK STREET, SYDNEY
LEATHER
BELTING
•
PULLEYs
'ID
COUPLi NGS
SHAFT! N G
GEARS & HANGERS
tSjfc * fl#
LUDOWICI'S
POWER
TRANSMISSION
EQUIPMENT
If
To-day’s World makes
ITOIIR WILL
AND (Mil EXECUTORS
even more vital matters!
Important at all times, the making of your
Will and the choice of your Executor are now
more serious responsibilities than ever before.
War inevitably brings increased risk of personal
attack, property destruction and the death of
private executors.
Place your affairs In safe, independent hands by
appointing The Union Trustee Co. your trustee
and executor. Then you can be certain that your
wishes will be carried out exactly, always.
Sound advice provided now by unbiased experts
may savo your dependents needless difficulties in
later years.
Write, 'phone or can NOW for full particulars.
The Union Trustee
COMPANY OF AUSTRALIA LIMITED
Established 1885 ns.ertnr.
%ssz
2 O’CONNELL STREET, SYDNEY
N.S.W. DIRECTORATE!
Hon Sir Henry Braddon, K.B.E. (Chairman); Cdm A.
Sinclair (Vice-Chairman); Hon. Sir Graham Waddell K.B. U.
M.L.C.; James Kidd; A. E Hea% C.M.G.; Robert U
Wilson; Manager: J* G. H. Shipway*
CP
ẅ
The WILD
CAT
COLUMN
Colonial Sugar Refining Co.
Replacement
Year and De-
ended preciation
Mar eft', Profit. Dividends. Reserves. Reserves.
124 P-c.
£ £ £ £
1933 .. 731,250 1,543,297 2,896,624
1934 .. 963,501 731,250 1,775,548 2,995,421
Reserves disclosed, £883,000.. 2,658,548
Assets written up, £3,957,564.. 6,616,112
Reserves capitalised, £5,850,000 766,112
Reserves disappear, £57,564.. 708,548
6i p.c.
1935 .. 931,949 731,260 909.247 3,088,939
1936 ~ 937,980 877,500* 969,727 8,311,260
6.9 p.c.
3 937 .. 1,036,336 804,375 1,201,688 3,509,057
74 p.c.
1938 .. 1.060,786 877,500 1,384,974 3.700,479
1939 . . 1,005,670 877,500 1,513,144 3,870,539
v 84 p.c.
1940 . . 1,103,744 994,500 1,622,388 4,092,025
1943 .. 1,054,331 994,500 1,682,219' 4,351,538
1942 ~ 934,619 994,500 1,622,338 4,666,646
1943 .. 3.041,601 994,500 1,669,439 5,049,140
' Includes special bonus of ss. per share to cover
taxation on last bonus scrip issue.
The co. began in 1842, with 11 share-
holders, as the Australasian Sugar Co.
With the passing of a century its share-
register total has grown to 7500, capital
£11,700,000, and there are a multitude of
activities other than actual sugar-produc-
tion. The co.’s late g.m., knight Philip
Goldfinch, who passed on during the last
term, was chairman, N.S.W. board of
management. Ministry of Munitions.
C. W. Rothes 33 years with the co., is
the C.S.R.’s new manager. The Knox
family still provides a chairman.
The co. refines, sells and finances most
of the Australian sugar crop. It also has
seven Australian mills, grows and mills
sugar in Fiji and refines in Maoriland.
There is a pineapple-canning project in
Fiji, hampered now by tinplate difficul-
ties, but bottled juice is being sold in
the islands. The co.’s Australian building
materials are being used almost exclu-
sively in the war effort. Cane-ite is made
from sugarcane waste, and, as in the case
of masonite, for which the co. is selling
agent, demand greatly exceeds the supply.
A plaster mill at Concord (N.S.W.) is
now in production, and other such in-
terests have been acquired in Victoria.
Apparently in conjunction with this
activity, asbestos-mining has been under-
taken in Tasmania and W.A. Four grain
distilleries, for the production of
3,000,000 gallons of anhydrous alcohol
each, are being built by the co. for the
Federal Government. Cost of this motor
fuel is estimated at “a few pence over
2s. a gallon.” The first distillery, in N. S.
Wales, should start shortly, but the other
three will not be ready this year. Muni-
tions production in three special factories
is now going on. Following research,
“considerable quantities” of vitamin C
are being made for the forces, and the
production of glycerine by fermentation of
sugar has been made possible. Altogether,
“this year has again been a most strenu-
ous one, and much has been achieved,
notwithstanding many difficulties.”
Shares in subsidiaries are in the books
at £194,555, and there is £3,217,609 of
other investments, including war loans.
Though total sugar made in Australia
last year was down 94,000 tons at 627,000
tons, largely because of lack of man-
power and fertiliser, total sales by the
co. in Australasia for the term were a
record, just exceeding half a million tons.
The export surplus was lower. Ration-
ing and other factors have since slowed
down the rate of local sales. In Fiji
crushings were up 5 p.c. The coming
crops in Australia and Fiji are expected
to yield 570,000 tons and 118,000 tons
respectively.
After setting aside £18,729 more for de-
preciation (£405,719), net earnings were
shown £106,982 higher at 8.9 p.c. on capi-
tal, compared with 8 p.c. in the preceding
year. The 8| p.c. div. was repeated, and
it is worth double that on capital as it
stood prior to 1934. During this war the
cp. disclosed earnings have been able
to absorb most increases in company
taxation, but are suffering to the full
extent of currency depreciation.
The asset position of the co. is there-
fore of greater interest than usual.
Assets and trading connections will be
carried on into the peace, and it is then
that shareholders in the main expect to
reap the merits of their investment.
Though the cash position is comfortable,
working assets and investments bulk
largest in the accounts. They are obvi-
ously conservatively valued and well
managed:
19'39. 1942. 1943.
Paid capital .. £11,700,000 £11,700,000' £11,700,000
Sundry creditors 2,152,000 5,199,237 5,370,340
Suspense accounts 2,437,456 2,872,369' 2,904,663
Employees’ funds 55,817 60,964 49,785
Refineries, mills,
etc 10,478,655 11,527,022 11,632.211
Steamers, etc. . 271,877 813,924 316,607
Distilleries . . 322,678 462,476 467.497
Premises . . 228,202 229,739 230,057
Stocks.. .. 4,176,249 6,990,623 7,260',725
Book debts, etc. 415,295 1,369,076 2,399,056
Investments .. 3,252,177 3,730,500 3,412,164
Cash and
deposits .. 3,022,574 1,995,444 1.522,300
Stocks remain heavy, though they include
balances due from the Queensland Gov-
ernment. Of the co.’s fleet, two vessels
have been chartered and one taken over
by the Government on the basis of out-
right sale. Though one period of charter
ended more than 12 months ago, charter
rates have not yet been determined, and
no payment has been received for the
vessel bought. Perhaps the C.S.R. is well
enough off to wait for its money. But
other less financial shipowners have been
treated in a similar offhand manner.
Since the last crushing season was com-
pleted a Queensland royal commission
took evidence at the various sugar
centres, and has advised on the best means
of harvesting the 1943 crop, keeping in
mind the Commonwealth Government’s
goal of 600,000 tons, and not forgetting
the man-power position. It is recom-
mended that all Queensland mills should
operate under State control, at about
75 p.c. of best weekly capacity for a
44-hour week, and to work three shifts.
Premier Cooper hopes that enough man-
power will be available to do the job,
and the crushing rate is to be fixed by
the Cane Prices Board, the labor allo-
cation by the Man-power people. Com-
monwealth Government has approved.
A deputation from sections of the in-
dustry recently asked the Prime Min-
ister for financial assistance in view of
increased costs. The C.S.R. was not asso-
ciated with the move or represented.
Prestige, Ltd. (Melb.)
/—< —; —Dividends To Re- Re-
Mar., Profit. Pref. Ord Total, serves, serves.
£ £, £> £>
1932.. 19,189 8 p.c. 10 p.c. 15,799 3,390 95,707
Share premiums, £5725 .. .. 101,432
1933.. 19,267 8 p.c. 10 p.c. 16,556 2,711 104,143
1934.. 19,796 8 „ 10 „ 19,465 331 104,474
1935. . 21,807 8 „ 10 „ 19,465 2,342 106,816
1936.. 25,540 8 „ 12i „ 22,270 3,270 110,086
1937.. 25,291 8 „ 10 „ 19,465 5,826 115,912
1938.. 10,968 8 „ 7$ „ 16,659 110,221
1939.. 25,271 8 „ 10 „ 19,465 6,806 116,027
Prestige, Ltd., and Subsidiaries.* /
Surplus sale plant, £4056 .. .. 111,346
1940.. 30,511 8 p.c. 10 t p.c. 19,465 11,046 122,392
1941.. 30,120 8 „ 10 „ 19,465 10,655 133,047
1942.. 36,694 8 „ 10 „• 19,465 17,229 150,276
1943.. 36,319 8 „ 10 „ 19,465)
To staff fund, £5OOO .. j H,854 162,130
* Profits shown less outsiders’ interest.
“There has been,” said the chairman
at the annual meeting, “far too much
vicious propaganda aimed at dividing
rather than welding our people into one
united whole, propaganda designed to
make our people believe that industry
is something apart from them, that in-
dustry is some big monster which for
generations has been sucking their life-
blood, until today, unfortunately, many
people are secretly delighted by any move
which further controls, embarrasses or
impoverishes industry. They say: ‘Let
us nationalise industry,’ but they fool-
ishly forget, nor do the propagandists
remind them, that when they nationalise
industry, being part of industry, they
nationalise themselves.”
Mr. Foletta has also pointed out the
increasing amount of official control his
own co. has had to put up with. “The
directors have at. all times sought, in
every way, to assist the country and the
Government in its war effort, but they
believe that industry generally has now
reached the stage where there is such a
measure of control that it is adversely
affecting the country’s economy. Unless
something can be done to relieve the posi-
tion, your board is of the opinion that
the troubles of this overcontrol will be
reflected in the forthcoming year’s*
figures.”
Prior to the war the co. made high-
class stockings and lingerie. Now it is
engaged in what is regarded by official-
dom as essential clothing for the forces
and civilians, as well as defence work,
such as supply and bomb-dropping para-
chutes (this is where the silk for stock-
ings has gone) and mosquito-netting.
Reference has been made to “other large
defence activities.” Weaving plant for
special fabrics has been bought, and the
whole undertaking has taken the shape of
the needs of the moment, which means,
perhaps, the scrapping of some plant and
other expensive reorganisation when we
plunge out of war into peace.
In addition to the main Melbourne
factory there .is a subsidiary originally
formed to make a cheaper grade of hose,
and an offshoot to handle the New Zea-
land market. Dyecraft Pty. attends to
dyeing and finishing in Australia. The
parent last year put up a branch factory
at Ararat (Vic.). After setting aside
£lO2B less for depreciation (£27,977) the
parent showed a net trading profit
of £17,794, down £6760 compared
with the preceding year. The sub-
sidiaries, after setting aside £BBlO
for depreciation (down £3335), dis-
closed net earnings on the parent’s
behalf of £18,525, up £6385. Aggre-
gate net profit was £375 lighter at
£36,319, and represented 25 p.c. on the
parent’s ord, capital, allowing for the
prefs., compared with 25.3 p.c. in the
preceding year. Out of the profit £5OOO
was sent to a staff fund.
Over the past four years depreciation
allowance has totalled £163,138 in the
entire enterprise, last year’s total provi-
sion being £36,787. This is good insur-
ance against the difficult post-war period,
especially as the book value of all plant
has now been reduced to £71,169 in the
books, representing about a third of the
capital of the parent. Still, only future
experience will be able to show that it
has been any too much, and it is a cer-
tainty that much of it has borne taxation.
Apart from a £32,649 drop in the book
value of plant, the most interesting move-
ment in balance-sheet figures last year
was an increase of £121,239 in stocks ;
standing at £366,236, they are not very
far short of the entire capital and re-
serves :
Prestige,
Ltd. Cons. Figures— 1 ——>
1938. 1941. 1942. 1943.
Paid capital.. £215,259 £216,259 £215,269 £215,259
Outside capitalt 30,000 30,000 80,000
Overdraft . . 69,299 27,968 31,339
Sundry creditors* 45,457 104,339 129,152 189,253
Freeholds .. 80,581 108,531 110,727 110,921
Plant, etc. .. 111,786 91,122 103,818 71,169
Shares other cos. 72,546 1,600
Stocks. . .. 134,816 294,165 244,997 366.236
Book debts, etc. 50,484 35,653 47,366 83,024
Cash, etc. .. 1,055 3,162 31,216 8,468
t Prestige (N.Z.) prefs. * Including tax provision.
To what extent, if any, the co. is
being assisted by the Government in
this job of keeping in hand vital stocks is
not stated. It is clear enough, however,
that in ordinary times finances would not
have been stretched to the present extent.
The outside debt (£220,592) rose £91,440
during the year.
J. C. Ludowici and Son, Ltd. (Sydney)
To Re- Re-
Dec., Profit. Dividends. serves, serves.
,££ £ £
1932 .. 5,028 7 p.c. = 5551 15,969
1933 . . 6,257 7„ „ 5551 706 16,675
1934 . . 4,477 51 .. „ 4362 115 16,790
1935 . . 4,247 5., „ 3965 282 17,072
1986 . . 5,957 74 „ „ 5947 10 17,082
1937 .. 7,126 8 „ „ 6344 782 17,864
1938 . . 6,592 7* „., 5947 645 18,509
1939 . . 5,627 7 „., 5551 76 18,585
1940 . . 8,272 8 „,, 6344 1928 20,513
1941 . . 12,644 8 ~ ~ 6344 6300 26,813
To “contingent taxation,” £3652.. 23.161
1942 . . 13,892 8 „,, 6344 7548 30,709
The foundations of this business were
laid by John Charles Ludowici as far
back as 1858. After the public became
interested in 1911, the co. continued to
give a good account 'of itself, widening
its local connections and patiently build-
ing up an export trade with Asia and
Maoriland in the belting, power trans-
mission and other products it manufac-
tures. Shareholders got a steady 10 p.c.


PATENTS. Have you an idea worth patenting?
Griffith, Hassel and Griffith, Patent Attorneys.
Asbestos House, Cr. York and Barrack Streets, Sydney
obtain Commonwealth and foreign patents.— Advt
* * * *
DAVIES & COLLI SON, Patent Attorneys, Collins
House, 360 Collins Street, Melbourne, C.l. Austra-
nan and overseas Patents and Trade Marks.—Anvr.
a scrap of paper
.... but In the event of your
death a most important document
which will provide security for
your dependants. Without delay
see the Equitable Probate and
General Insurance Company for
expert advice on protection for
your family.
Be prepared—Be assured.
EQUITABLE PROBATE
AND CENEftAUHSURaNCE CO.LTD A
Head Office : 371-373 Queen St., Brisbane
VTingello House, Angel Place, Sydney.
Collins House, Collins Street, Melbourne.
B. V I’EKIUNS, General Manager,
For Australia at War . . .
v
Established 1920
(Tfe
LATHES . . . CAPSTAN TURRET LATHES
SHAPING, MILLING and PLANING
MACHINES .... BORING MILLS
MACHINE-CUT GEARS for the Trade
MARS MACHINE TOOL Manfg. Go.
Pty. Ltd. Bridge Street, Valley, Brisbane
m
'rrmth
m
DON'T BE
WORRIED
ABOUT
INCOME TAX
BUY THE
PRIMARY PRODUCERS' ACCOUNT BOOK
Price - £1
The Pages in the Book are headed the same as Ihe Items in the Income lax
Return.
To make the entries, simply turn to the Index, which shows on which page to put
them, such as: "Sheep Bought," Page 20; "Wool Sold," Page 29; "Wages."
Page 39; "Shearing." Page 57; "Petrol," Page 58; and so on.
Special pages are provided on which to enter the details in respect of the rebates
for Spouse," "Children," "Mother," "Life Insurance," "Medical Expenses," etc.
To prepare the Income Tax Return, simply copy the entries in the Book on to
the return.
Full instructions are given regarding Live Stock Values, Depreciation on Plant
and Improvements, and ether important matters.
Should any difficulty arise, advice will be given free of charge.
SPECIAL SERVICE (Optional).
You may, if you wish, send the Book to us when completed, together with your
cheque for £2/2/-, when your Income Tax Return will be prepared by a leading
accountant and taxation expert of over 25 years' standing. The Book will be
sent back to you with the Return. Further details of this Service will be given
to purchasers of the Book.
Over 900 copies have been sold. Dozens of testimonials have been received.
If not completely satisfied, your money will be returned.
J. SHIPLEY & CO.. PUBLISHERS. 56 HUNTER STREET. SYDNEY.
GOLDSBROUGH, MORT AND COMPANY, LIMITED.
Ordinary General Meeting of Shareholders 25/6/1943.
Mr. K. M. NlALL—Chairman,
Balance Sheet
You will observe that investments in Govern-
ment Stocks, etc., have increased to £930,398,
due to Commonwealth War Loan Subscrip-
tions of £506,000 made during the year, tne
total amount subscribed since war began being
£860,000. The accumulation of funds which
have enabled us to make these subscriptions
arises from the fact that the amounts owing
to us by clients have been reduced. This re-
duction of indebtedness is partly due to the
surplus revenues of a good season, but war-
time restrictions on normal expansion have had
a considerable influence. A matter which
should not be lost sight of is that drawings by
clients to meet taxation may ultimately absorb
to some extent part of these temporary reduc-
tions in their accounts. Moreover, substantial
sums in the aggregate have been compulsorily
withheld from expenditure which, but for man-
power and material shortage, should have been
spent on upkeep of improvements, eradication
of pests, etc. A great deal of delayed work
of this character will have to be carried out
sooner or later, and calls by clients for the pur-
pose will almost certainly be heavy. Therefore,
although utilisation of such funds is less re-
munerative in the meantime, having such a large
proportion of our reserves readily liquid should
enable us to meet demands for such purposes
when occasion arises.
Profit and Loss Account
The turnover for the year has been a record,
the total amounting to considerably over
£15,000,000. This has been achieved principally
through very active stock' markets due to a
good season in all the States synchronising with
high prices for stock and increased price for
wool. This record turnover has resulted in
gross earnings of £959,000, but expenses and
taxation have been heavier than ever before.
If you compare the net profit-with the total of
shareholders’ funds as set out in the Balance
Sheet you will note that the net return is only
3-f p.c. Incidentally, the net return on turnover
is less than 1 p.c.
As it is unlikely that seasonal and other
conditions will continue to favour us to the
extent they have during the past year, our
ability to maintain these gross earnings is un-
certain; and, with the war continuing and ex-
penses mounting, it will, of course, be even
more difficult to maintain our net earnings.
From the point of view, however, of the success
of our organisation, the extent of additional
business transacted may be regarded as very
satisfactory indeed.
The production of wool per sheep in Aus-
tralia was as a whole below normal, although
there were exceptions, notably the clip pro-
duced in West Australia, where both quality
and quantity improved. The earlier shearing,
and indifferent conditions in the early period
of growth, affected the cut per head.
The clip as a whole, irrespective of standard,
is acquired o'n the basis of 15.453 d. per lb.,
and the difference between that figure and the
average price for all wool appraised in the
Commonwealth is to be distributed to the
growers, as hitherto, by means of a flat-rate
adjustment payment. At the conclusion of
operations last season such payment was 9jr p.c.,
and this year’s distribution is expected to
approximate that figure.
Notwithstanding that the appraisement pro-
gramme did not proceed altogether to plan,
due mainly to transport and labour problems
in the early stages, and the man-bower diffi-
culties with which all industries have to con-
tend, the business as a whole was again expedi-
tiously handled. It gives me pleasure to pay
a tribute to the effective control and mar age-
merit by the Central and State Wool Commit-
tees.
Appraisement Centres
At this Company’s Annual Meeting in 1941,
and again in 1942, I made mention of the pro-
posals for new Appraisement Centres and the
undesirability of such. From all accounts,
however, the Government is proceeding with
preparations to establish additional centres, and
during the coming season it is possible that
appraisements will be held at several additional
inland towns. As each season’s production to
date, including that now closing, has been
handled economically and satisfactorily, there
is no justification for the considerable expense
involved, and for the diversion of labour and
material from important war efforts to serve
purely political ends. In the formation of this
policy no consideration whatsoever has been
given to the opinions of growers and the trade
as a whole. These are definitely opposed to
the disturbance of what was and still is a most
efficient service. When normal marketing is
resumed the disadvantage to the industry" of
these additional centres will become even more
apparent.
Post-war Marketing
We have not yet, unfortunately, reached the
stage when concrete plans can be laid for post-
war developments, but this does not prevent
most of us from giving consideration from time
to time to the probable nature of the economic
conditions which will confront us. The declara-
tion of the Atlantic Charter and one of its
main principles, free access to essential raw
materials for all countries —victor and van-
quished alike —may direct to some extent our
line of thought. It seems as if we may put on
the credit side the probability of a more or less
immediate steady outlet for surplus stocks of
wool and of other primary products. On the
debit side there is the possible difficulty of
adjusting our Australian economy to the new
order because of our heavy production costs.
Such adjustments will become more of a prob-
lem with each rise in these costs.
The benefit to all countries in the long run
of a successful world rehabilitation plan" will,
no doubt, be enormous, but it seems prudent
to assume that it may call for initial sacrifices
on the part of countries such as Australia
which are normally blessed with a surplus of
the vital necessities of life —food and clothing.
The economic position of many of our old
customers for wool, wheat, butter, meat and
fruit will be deplorable, and it may take many
years of patient planning to set them up again'.
Of our male permanent staff at the outbreak
of war 279 are in the Fighting Forces; this
represents 43 p.c.
It is incumbent on us not only to keep open
for such service men positions of similar status
as before, but to endeavour to get our post-
war staff organisation to function in such a
way as will give opportunities for promotion to
these men, notwithstanding their absence from
business life during a long period. This will
need careful planning and will cost money
because it obviously implies a period of training
in many cases. Shareholders. I feel sure, will
not grudge the expenditure, which may, 1 think,
be regarded as one of the sacrifices I have
already referred to which we shall all have to
make to assist the rehabilitation plans of the
post-war period. ■
In conclusion, I would like also to refer to
our staff at Head Office and Branches. You
will understand that many of them have to
work additionally hard because of the lack just
now of competent assistance. 1 much appreciate
the efficient manner in which they have carried
on as a whole, in spite of great difficulties.
tor the 14 years to the close of accounts
in 1929 ; for the next decade the average
was 6.8 p.c., despite depressed conditions
and intensive competition, and for the
last three years a steady 8 p.c. has been
handed out from the expanding proceeds
of increased turnover.
Although war with Japan and the
application of quotas and exchange and
shipping difficulties cut off most of the
co.’s overseas trade, growing defence
requirements locally more than filled the
gap. Indeed, substantial additions had to
be made to buildings and plant in order
to cope with these requirements. During
the 12 months covered by the latest ac-
counts, costs, including taxation, shot
ahead, largely on account of inflationary
war-time expenditure, which bumped up
both wages and the price of materials.
But sales won the race by £1248, after
visibly setting aside £lBl3 for deprecia-
tion. The £13,892 of profit claimed was
the best in the co.’s history, being 17.5
p.c. on capital as against 15.9, 10.4, 7,
8.3, 9, 7.5 and 5.3 p.c. back to 1935. But
the careful management kept the div. at
8 p.c., thus putting more in the cup-
board than was distributed, lifting the
lay-by to £30,709 subject to “contin-
gent taxation.” But in a manufactur-
ing concern like this the efficiency of the
plant, chief earning asset, counts most,
and the history of the business leaves no
doubt, as to the management’s awareness
on this score.
Last year’s all-round expansion of ac-
tivities is further reflected in the follow-
ing comparison of balance-sheet figures :
1937. 1940. 1941. 1942.
Capital .. .. £79,300 £79,300 £79,300 £79,300
Liabilities .. .13,914 27,929 40,018* 71,951
Freeholds . . 50,881 58,978 59,028 62,519
Flant, etr, .. 5,859 10,391 10,944 16,653
Stoc j is ■ • • • 42,892 38,956 33,235 57,675
Look debts .. 13,037 17,918 .38,171 88,516
Cash, etc. . . 2,498 5,584 8,840 10,683
■ Including tax provision.
To meet net additions of £3491 to free-
hold and £5709 to plant and carry an
extra £24,440 of stocks—an insurance
against rising prices—the board went
outside for an extra £31,933. Owing to
the outlay on fixed assets, there was a
shrinkage of £5215 in the more or less
liquid surplus (£34.923). Altogether the
co. appears to be shaping very well, and
the younger generation is taking its full
share in direction of the business. Also
the industry as a whole is already prepar-
ing its post-war plans.
Wiluna (W.A.) has survived another
operational year. On balance the intrin-
sic value of its mine is not as good as it
was 12 months ago, and the end appears
to be slowly but surely approaching. Re-
maining life is estimated by local mining
men at 18 months to two years. A further
rise in costs, which seems likely, would
shorten that period. London price of
shares is around 6s. sterling, which is
more than covered by present liquid
assets.
* * * $
Future of Mt. Charlotte group, Kal-
goorlie, on which Wiluna took an option
from a co. associated with Paringa Gold
Mines, Ltd., is discussed in a recent re-
port by the latter co. Report states that
the position concerning Mt. Charlotte has
been governed by the difficult conditions
prevailing in Australia since the entry of
Japan into the war. Wiluna was forced
to suspend its operations soon after work
was commenced and after expenditure
of £A11,074, excluding £lO,OOO option de-
posit. Apart from its interest in Mt.
Charlotte, Paringa has for sbme time
owned and * held options over certain
“favorably located” areas adjoining and
to the south of Mt. Charlotte, and has
completed the purchase outright of a
compact area totalling 99 acres. This
area comprises several old mines on the
direct line of the extensions of the Mt.
Charlotte lode channels. These mines, it
is claimed, have never been systemati-
cally developed, apart from shallow
workings carried out by previous owners,
and, according to past records, have
yielded a substantial tonnage of payable
ore. These areas, adds the report, have
every prospect of proving valuable, and,
from geological information available,
warrant investigation by boring.
* * * *
Burbidge Gold Mines, N.L., which
gave up mainly on account of shortage
of labor, is, according to a local news-
paper report, “nearing the stage of hand-
ing over its Yilgarn mine and outfit to a
caretaker until after the war.” There are
several other cos. on the Westralian fields
that have reached the same stage. Some
will never start again.
* * * »
Because of having reached the ceiling
price, Gt. Boulder shares are, allowing
for exchange, quoted at the equivalent of
about Is. 6d. less on the Australian Stock
Exchanges than in London. Piles of
scrip were bought here at 10s. and over,
and most of that held locally cost more
than the ceiling price. Here is a case
where the ceiling could be raised without
risking a protest from anyone. No other
Australian mining share is priced higher
in London than in Australia. Quotations
for most are substantially lower.
* * * *
Kalgoorlie Golden Mile miscellany:
South Kalgurli is now treating ore —
smaller tonnage than when put through
its own plant— at Kalgoorlie Gold Mines,
Ltd., mill, about a third of a mile away.
Sources of production are still the main
and Hainault workings. Ore reserves
are reported to be slightly on the down.
Latest official figures should be available
shortly. Great Boulder developments
continue to bulge the intrinsic value of
the property. A big increase in gold out-
put is certain when the co. is able to treat
full-capacity tonnages. Deepest workings
are now at 3200 ft. Lake View and Star
is doing its best, and some more, with
mining and production, but until more
labor is available its efforts are badly
cribbed, cabined and confined. Like the
Boulder, Lake View has a lot up its
golden sleeve. Boulder Perseverance
goes on producing and paying dividends,
but, apart from an annual report, is dis-
inclined to talk locally about prospects
or achievements. North Kalgurli group
has a most attractive appearance, but,
like the others, has to be worked, while
the war is on, at much below its capacity.
Provided the price of gold keeps up, Kal-
goorlie, as a result of a big lift in gold-
production, should, and probably will,
have a boom after the war.
* * * *
Canada’s national income for 1942 has
been tentatively estimated at $7500 mil-
lion. Canadian manufacturers are sell-
ing some war materials at prices lower
than those in either Britain or the United
States. The chairman of Barclay’s Bank
(Canada) says that
As the result 1 of Government control of
commodity prices and wages, the Canadian
worker is much better off in the present
war than during the previous conflict. But
the threat of inflation is still a problem
of the first order, and the energetic treat-
ment of the problem in the manner now
being pursued is essential to the successful
prosecution of the war.


With can ...
ill
a
B
m
V 3&
i
hi
I
,
Hi
i
-
i
will outlast the war !
There is no need to worry about your
Feltex floor covering. It’s made to
last—and retain its beauty. Treat it
well, and it will serve you well. . . thus
enabling you to buy more War Bonds.
Felt & Textiles of Australia Ltd.
Manufacturers of
FELTEX Floor Covering,
F 1.34.16
Insure with the
AUSTRALIAN MUTUAL FIRE INSURANCE SOCIETY, LTD.
ESTABLISHED 1872.
HEAD OFFICE: INSURANCE HOUSE, 109 PITT STREET, SYDNEY
Invested Funds exceed £500,000.
All classes Marine, Fire and Accident Insurance at lowest rates.
TOURISTS’ AND TRAVELLERS’ BAGGAGE INSURED.
VICTORIAN BRANCH: 411 Collins Street, Melbourne.
QUEENSLAND BRANCH : Woolworth’s Building, Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
Claims Promptly and Equitably Settled. Agents in all Principal Country Towns.
W. G. BROWN. General Manager.
CYanogaS
destroys them quickly and easily.
“IT’S the GAS that KILLS them.”
KILLS WITH A WHIFF
CERTAIN DEATH
TO RABBITS
Pump it in with a “Buzacott” Foot Pump Blower—a machine which
makes rabbit destruction a simple, sure and inexpensive operation.
SAVES MANPOWER
w
Obtainable from
all Storekeepers
throughout Australia.
BUZACOTT-WOLSELEY PTY..LTD.,
7-11 MARKET STREET, SYDNEY.
Business,Rollery,Etc.
After Twenty Years
For many years The Bulletin has
frowned upon forestry-bond propositions
as “investments.” Since Smith and Wylie
started N.Z. Perpetual Forests in 1923,
dozens of other cos. have been promoted.
A thousand fantastic tales have been told,
some by sharp, slick fellows, others by
sincere “visionaries,” of the amazing
profits to be made out of the growing
and processing of pine-trees. Over
£ 1,000,000-worth of N.Z.P.F. bonds and
shares was sold in the third year of
operations. The Smith, Wylie con-
cern was quite respectably run, although
a number of the men who hawked
N.Z. Perpetual Forests bonds and
shares were princes in the art of
high-pressure selling, some subsequently
branching out into activities of their own,
and two or three ultimately finding it
important to leave the country. High
commissions were usually paid on bond
sales, and there was quite an air about
it all.
There were amazingly effective sales-
men at work. Most aimed at in-
flaming the acquisitive instinct in
their “prospect.” O. Henry would
have delighted in telling the stories
of a dozen or so of the Australian
and New Zealand “talent” who were in
deep in the bond-selling game, how some
turned to other freakish company pro-
motions, including shale oil, coal oil,
tung oil, rubber, bananas, tobacco, N.Z.
flax, real estate, “investments,” finance
and a fashionable night club. A bond-
salesman known to a Bulletin financial
editor called in, renounced his calling, de-
nounced his employers and a number of
his friends “on the road,” and borrowed
a pound “to get away from Sydney and
start again.” At 5 per cent, interest
the loan will have soon doubled itself.
There proved to be other similar loans,
even if the accompanying story was dif-
ferent.
A gang of international crooks, in
co-operation with some Sydney people,
worked a racket in the shares of an exist-
ing forestry co., and though the thing was
exposed by The Bulletin the N.S.W.
police moved so slowly that only one of
the conspirators was caught and con-
victed. He got 4j years. The in-
fluence of go-getters extended into
politics, the law, commerce and the
racecourses. It took on a new lease
of life after the depression; then
the racket practically killed itself by
its own excesses and the extreme pub-
licity given to the Woolcott-Forbes court
cases. The war, of course, also helped
in the suppression of activity. But for
15 years the go-getter was definitely a
feature of Australian life. Sometimes he
“jumped the rattler” ; at other times he
rode in an eight-cylinder limousine, with
fur coat, cigar and bowler hat. If you
had no money but possessed some scrip,
no matter how bad that scrip was, he
could nearly always persuade you to
exchange it for something worse.
N.Z. Perpetual Forests has done every-
thing for bondholders that it ever actu-
ally contracted to do. Though perhaps
the job it has performed could have been
done more cheaply in different circum-
stances, the forests have been definitely
established, and there is money in the
offshoot, N.Z. Forest Products, to help
on the marketing side. But 20 years have
passed since the first bonds were sold,
and people were then told that “for
every £25 you invest you should receive
£5OO or more.” The contracts were
for 20 years. The Bulletin has
always discredited these forecasts, and
frequently it was taken to task by
salesmen and hopeful bondholders, the
latter often being mesmerised by what
is nowadays diagnosed as wishful
thinking. The cold facts of the case are
that there is no immediate prospect of
any reasonable return to bondholders
from any forestry-bond co. Some mil-
lions of pounds have been invested. The
Whakatane co. in Maoriland is nearer to
divs. than any other, and yet the highest
price offered for its £1 ord. shares re-
cently has been 9s. 6d. N.Z.F.P. ords.
are at 6s. 9d.
It was a common thing for forestry-
bond salesmen to carry with them a
springback file containing all manner of
refined products made from woodpulp.
For the dear old lady prospect there was
a bunch of paper doyleys, all beautifully
embossed with floral designs. Then there
would be a piece of rayon, a dozen
other intriguing items, all to be made in
the future out of N.Z. pine-trees. The
most that has been made so far on a
commercial scale has been cardboard and
brown paper. Not that these items in
themselves are not good bread-and-butter
lines for investors in the ordinary way.
But they don’t usually return 10 or 20
times the capital invested in a period of
20 years. And, unless the enterprise
making them was sanely conceived and
carefully financed, any kind of return
on capital might be difficult to achieve.
An argument put up by one bond sales-
man was that the Kaiser once remarked
that if Germany had had twice the
amount of forests it would have won the
last war. As to that, the Empire is now
nearly four years at war, and 20 years
have elapsed since the first N.Z. forestry-
bond proposition got under way, but
nothing of a moderate size, let alone
spectacular, has come out of the Pinus
insignis industry. Yet at present there
is a great shortage of timber and
woodpulp products. It is interesting
here for investors to take notice
that it is not only commercial or
technical factors which govern the
prospects of investments. There is the
political aspect as well. In N.Z. this
political aspect stood in the way of profit-
able prices being charged by Whakatane
Paper Mills. Now it is obstructing N.Z.
Forest Products.
N.Z. Forest Products has asked the
Government for a license to build a pulp
and paper mill. Industries Minister Sul-
livan says it can’t have one, the State
Forest Department being ahead of the co.
with an application. N.Z.F.P. pointed
out that it had bought a mill in 1936,
but could not get it into the country
because of Government obstruction. The
plant eventually had to be sold at a loss
of £25,000. Though the Government’s
attitude may be severe, if not almost in-
explicable, the fact remains that yet an-
other problem has arisen in the affairs of
N.Z. forestry cos. that was not mentioned
in any prospectus put out by them or em-
phasised by any of those adroit salesmen
of yesteryear who were so adept at em-
phasising other things.
It is not the purpose here to belittle
afforestation enterprises engaged in a
sober way on a legitimate job. But The
Bulletin has seen goldmining fanatics,
rude and aggressive in their cocksureness,
lead other people on to ruin. In the
case of forestry bonds, apart from
sheer go-getting, it has struck those
“visionaries” who have worked the whole
thing out on paper and have become
almost fanatical in their advocacy of
forestry enterprises; their fault has been
that they have not been satisfied with
keeping their opinions to themselves, but
have made it their business to involve
others. Then there have been the leather-
lunged, orthodox salesmen who have
taken up thousands of hours of busy
people’s time trying to sell forestry bonds,
and whose conscience will not be greatly
troubled whether the things ever show
a reasonable return or not.
Because of these things, and because
of the cockiness of bond-salesmen who
did so well selling bonds that eventually
they came to believe that they really
knew something about finance and invest-
ments, this paper has no regrets if it
seems to be taking a “we told you so”
attitude. To most people forestry bonds
have proved a bad investment —many
years of waiting without interest or divi-
dends, and rarely a chance to get out at
cost. Even if eventually some of these
propositions turn out to be decent div.-
payers the fact remains that interest at
5 p.c. on the investment would by now
have doubled the sum put up fourteen
years ago, and many bonds were taken
out further back than that. There were to
be no impediments other than time —
usually ten to twenty years—to the reap-
ing of lucrative profits; actually there
have been hundreds. In short, as this
paper indicated a dozen years ago, what
many people thought they were getting
when they bought a bond has turned out
to be grotesquely wrong. There may be
some returns in the future, but, even
where capitals have been inflated by
turning bonds into shares, 10 p.c. divs.
would take 50 years to return £5OO a
bond. And that is after 20 years or so
of waiting already.
According to Minister Forde, wastage
of foodstuffs, clothing and equipment by
the Army had been brought down to “an
almost irreducible minimum.” Hasn’t
he ever heard of powdered egg?
Jk Jk #
For the March quarter of this year the
building of private dwellings in the
metropolitan areas of the six capital
cities was almost non-existent. A pre-
cipitous fall took place in the months of
December, 1941, and January and Febru-
ary, 1942, following Japan’s entry into
the war and the severe restrictions im-
posed on private building by the Labor
Government just after it took office. In
June, 1941, there were 1934 new dwell-
ings erected in the Australian capitals
and their suburbs, the total value being
£2,255,000, an average of £ll6O per
dwelling. In March this year the num-
ber put up was 24, value £lO,OOO, aver-
age £416. Home-building activity at the
present time is about one per cent, of
what it averaged during 1940-41 and for
four or five years before. It represents
one of the most serious deficiencies on
civilian account that have arisen so far
this war. The shortage of housing
is considerably more than the falling-
off in new building ; the population in
nearly every capital has increased since
war started, and there has for a long
time been a lack of desirable housing.
Concurrent with this growing housing
shortage there has been a record number
of marriages in Australia during 1941
and 1942, and so far during 1943 there
has been no decline in vital statis-
tics. Births in 1941 and 1942 were
134,525 and 136,709 respectively, com-
pared with 122,891 in 1939. Already
Mr. Dedman has had to relax his
restrictions on prams and strollers.
Although there are several hundred
thousand Australians in military and Air
Force quarters at the present time, thus
relieving the strain on accommodation
in individual homes, the shortage of
homes is none the less acute, as the idea
of one family to one home is clung to in
many cases not only by the families in
possession but also by some suburban
municipal bodies. Many expectant
mothers are now at their parents’ homes,
it being impossible for all of them to find
homes of their own and almost as diffi-
cult to furnish a home if they found
one.


THE
UNITED
INSURANCE
COMPANY LTD.
ESTABLISHED 18(52.
Head Office :
George and Hunter Sts., Sydney
All classes of Fire, Marine and
Accident Insurances effected at
Lowest Current Rates.
The “United” is an Australian Institution
V C \. DAWSON > T. 0. REYNOLDS',
,en ' Manager. Asst. Gen. Manager.
WANTED
Musical Instruments
up to £lO cash for your used
tiuitar or Banjo-Mandolin. We will
also give up to £4O cash for Piano
Accordions and Saxophones. We buy
instruments in any condition any-
where. Write for details of free
valuation to —
“SAMPSONS,” Dept. M., Box 4184 X
G.P.O., Sydney.
SOME COMMON SENSE
ABOUT * .fig
M*"*
Discard the old type
steel Truss. Try the
amazing new Roussel
. ... . , Appliance. Enables you
hardest work with comfort and security.
Definitely holds, a condition absolutely necessary
for possinle improvement or recovery. Made to
suit each individual case and costs little.
Recommended by Doctors everywhere. Satis-
faction guaranteed no matter where you live.
Send for details, self measurement form, testi-
monials and 14 days’ free trial offer. No obligation.
THE ROUSSEL APPLIANCE CO.,
(Dept. 27). 9 Martin Place, Sydney.
Backache , Leg Pains ,
Often a Danger Sign of
Tired Kidneys
DOAN’S
BACKACHE
KIDNEY PILLS
assist kidneys to function properly—
to discharge acids and poisons. Give
your kidneys the help they need before
it is too late.
SOLD BY ALL CHEMISTS
AND STOREKEEPERS.
Foster-McClellan Co.,
Proprietors,
15 Hamilton St., Sydney.
ON BUSINESS » BENT...
This precision Steel Tube
to mention manipulated,
clipped and slotted... on
army cycle making. B.T.M.
about cycle components,
its war assignments were
Fortunately, thanks to the
gained in times of
no problem has proved
Peace comes, B.T.M. will
to our National
II
was bent... not
tapered, trapped,
the business of
already knew all
but the bulk of
new and strange,
skill and knowledge
/ free enterprise,
f
insuperable. When
have much to contribute
prosperity.
I
f c
BRITISH TUBE MILLS
(A U S I.) PI Y. LTD.
ADELAIDE
BUY WAR SAVINGS CERTIFICATES
m
CONQUEST OF PAIN
It may at first seem a far cry from the chemical factory to
the hospital operating theatre. Here is a modern surgical
operation in progress. The picture was painted in an
operating theatre at St. Mary’s Hospital, London, The chief
interest in it must naturally centre in the figures of the
surgeon and the patient, whose form is no more than sug-
gested on the operating table. Yet if is appropriate that
the anaesthetist with his trolley should occupy such a
prominent place, for surgery as it is known to-day dates
from the discovery of practical methods of anaesthesia. The
power to produce insensibility to pain has enabled the
surgeon to achieve his miracles. Less than 100 years ago
surgery was a dire last resort and a brutal business, the
patient having either to be tied down or drugged with
quantities of alcohol. In 1846 ether was used as a surgical
anaesthetic by Dr. Warren in the U.S.A. In the following
year chloroform was used in Edinburgh by Dr. (later, Sir
James) Simpson, who was denounced from the pulpit for
interfering with the works of God! To-day anaesthesia is
a highly specialised branch of medicine, employing a large
and constantly increasing number of chemicals. Of these
some arc inhaled through a mask, some are injected into a
vein, and some arc infiltrated info the tissues. Ether and
chloroform are still used, but modern chemical research has
made available special anaesthetics for all purposes. Some
anaesthetics are derived from the normal products of
chemxal factories. Other pharmaceuticals, such as those of
the barbituric acid group, arc far more complex and their
manufacture is made possible by the pooling of skill, know-
ledge and research of organic chemists all over the world.
In the field of anaesthetics as in pharmaceuticals
generally, British and Australian chemical factories /pjTTV
and research laboratories stand behind the faculty
of medicine to make available better and safer V~y
chemicals for the conquest of pain.
IMPERIAL CHEMICAL INDUSTRIES
OF AUSTRALIA & NEW ZEALAND LTD.
FORM A GROUP! JOIN A GROUP!
BUY WAR SAVINGS CERTIFICATES.
In Defence of Private Enterprise
At the annual meeting of the National
Reliance Investment Trust, the chairman,
Staniforth Ricketson (senior partner in
the stockbroking firm of J. B. Were and
Son), spoke up vigorously for the free-
dom —within present necessary restric-
tions —of private enterprise. While not
criticising the reduction in dividends re-
ceived from the co.’s Australian invest-
ments, mainly the result of heavy war-
time company taxation, he expressed fears
about the operation of the prices ceiling,
following, as it did, a half-baked Govern-
ment attempt to limit business earnings to
4 p.c. on capital employed. He said :
“There appears to be a lack of confi-
dence that the subsidies promised by the
Government to make good the losses
incurred as a result of the ceiling will be
paid promptly or to an extent sufficient
to recompense manufacturers and traders
for additional and unavoidable costs of
production and trading.”
Referring to the Stock Exchanges,
Ricketson, mentioning that London and
New York markets have been allowed to
recover without let or hindrance, pointed
out that the Australian Government saw
fit “so early in the recovery movement as
last September to prohibit the fortnightly
price revisions and later to impose ‘ulti-
mate ceilings’ on prices, based mainly on
prices ruling in September, 1941. Already
the greater proportion of the stocks have
buyers at ‘ultimate ceiling’ prices, and
holders will not sell except in cases of
necessary liquidation. Such sellers con-
sequently are penalised, buyers are frus-
trated in their desire to invest funds, and
holders have the value of their assets
depreciated below their true market
value.” The Government’s attitude indi-
cated an “entire ignorance or wilful dis-
regard of all investment principles and
experience,”
Touching more generally on the Gov-
ernment’s economic policy, Ricketson said :
Every person in Australia who has worked
nard, saved his money, and invested it in some
way or another to provide income for his old
age or to insure against sickness must feel
appiehension at the increasing attacks by some
politicians on private enterprise and their cham-
pionmg of the mystical merits of socialism,
they want to tear down the present social and
whioh^J 0 • str v C . ture , to replace it with another
TinH tiw claimed WI H bring joy to all man-
’• . , at ’ a . s ou r American comrades would
f a l’3 s l akin S in a lot of territory. The Social-
Jn V r r ?? dst > ? ome Of them Federal Mims-
rers, make the wild assertion that Capitalism
and private enterprise have failed.
So far as Australia is concerned, solid facts
a statement to be quite untrue and
thout foundation. Some of these facts are
If ’ . er our .fisting system, some millions
°,^ 1 ' million people have managed to
£l4n nnn nno Savmg u u? nk de P° sits totalling over
£340, 0 0 0 ,0°0 probably over a million and a
naif are holders of Commonwealth and public-
ly J( ? ans ’ aggregating some hundreds of mil-
h°M- ° P° unds > while there are few people not
ho dmg war-savings certificates. Australians
M?i d r.ffi Ver f ° Ur P ull °n policies with Australian
file offices, assuring a total of over £600,000,000,
umeious householders own the equity of their
Z™ h ° mes ’ U^ d over half a million hold
companies valued at many
ratic° nS f P° unds - Australian workers have
[n w and conditions of labor known
" Eh h f er r countnes - and the Australian
standard of living generally is one of the
highest in the world.
W A. s^ te ,A u " de f which > by dint of hard
of AmcS and shre wdness, so many millions
bulwark ralia f ns have *? een able to build up those
oulwarks of personal and family security and
fnV h Lu an A tlme en ioy.reasonably good work-
b/Sa“ to h V a vlt a rd ‘ UOnS ’ Can "°‘ '^l,thfu“ ,
Referring to “bureaucratic despotism,”
Ricketson prophesied that “the time will
come when every Australian outside the
ranks of these bureaucrats—who must by
now be a veritable legion—will want to
recover his ancient legal rights and his
personal liberty of choice of action. I
am afraid it will be a matter of great
difficulty to depose these war-time dic-
tators who have attained such despotic
powers, and that strong united effort will
need to be made by all sections in order
to re-establish the pre-war position that
all Government employees are the ser-
vants, and not the masters, 1 of the
people.”
During the month of May savings-
bank deposits throughout the Common-
wealth increased £7.8 million, reaching
£344.9 million. In the preceding month
there had been a setback to £1,013,000 in
the rate of these accumulations as a
result of contributions to the Third
Liberty Loan, whereas for March the in-
crease was £8.6 million, and for February
£9.8 million. The fact that May additions
to deposits were rather below those for
preceding loan-free months may be
attributable to the fact that there was a
great rush to use up expiring clothing
coupons in May and early June.
* * * *
Mr. Chifley forecast a deficit of £4OO
million for the year now ended. It
is unlikely that his figure includes the
dozens of shipping liabilities where
charter rates have not yet been deter-
mined after two years, the liability for
outright purchases or the liability for
camp sites where rental and other charges
have not yet been arranged. These liabili-
ties will run into many millions. The
lag in settlement in some of these cases
is scandalous, especially where citizens
with little capital behind them are being
kept waiting for a decision and for pay-
ment.
* * * *
Judge Magennis, in the Victorian
General Sessions, has described some
price-fixing regulations as “the worst I
have ever seen.” He did not know how
grocers understood them. His Honor
quashed the conviction of a grocer who
had been fined for selling at prices above
those fixed by the Prices Commissioner,
and allowed the appellant £5 ss. costs
against the Commonwealth on each of
three charges.
* H= * *
Apparently the wastage that has oc-
curred and is occurring in the services—
bad political planning as well as faulty
management arrangements are to blame
—has at last caused some concern in
Government circles. In any case Treas-
urer Chifley, whose Government is so
ready to take all the credit for whatever
good the Commonwealth has done in the
way of raising and equipping its fighting
forces, has passed the buck to the inevit-
able board. He says all service expendi-
ture comes under the daily review of the
Board of Business Administration, co-
operating with the business managers of
the three services. Referring to “a
£2,000,000 works in the southern part of
Australia’—the Auditor-General referred
to it before the Treasurer did—Mr
Chifley said that the work had been
carried out at the request of the U S
authorities. “When the war position
improved the site was released byv the
U.S. and the board collaborated with ser-
vice departments to decide the use of
the vacated premises.” Apparently Labor,
while (according to Mr. Curtin) reject-
ing the Brisbane-line plan, was quite
willing to go ahead with “works in the
southern part of Australia” until it was
decided that “the war position” had “im-
proved,” after which the “works” were
abandoned so far as their original pur-
pose was concerned.


General MacArthur Moves.
THE SERVICE MAN
“Ek Dum”; On June 30 there opened
along the 800 - mile chord of the
Solomons-Rabaul-Lae defence arc what
might be termed the second phase of the
Australian-American counter-attack on
South Sea enemy defences.
Preliminaries for these seemingly
simple and spontaneous operations have
been in progress for months. The spade-
work began to be done so soon as the
Buna battle was out of the way. Plans
were apparently made final during the
conferences between General MacArthur
and Admiral Halsey, who visited Aus-
tralia when General MacArthur became
supreme commander for the whole South
Pacific area. They were approved and
the final touches put to the munitioning
when General Kenney and General Mac-
Arthur’s C.O.S., General Sutherland,
visited Washington before Dr. Evatt cast
up there. Meanwhile an influential
group of Americans, headed by Senator
Chandler, had launched a formidable
“Beat Japan First” movement, which had
a palpable effect on the course of events.
It is a pity the general public cannot
see something of the vastness of the
preparations, the stream of supplies and
of ships, the training, the accumulation,
the days of unceasing vigil, the amazing
shifts to preserve secrecy and the general
strain which go into such operations.
While Australian politicians cry in self-
admiration at what they are doing or are
about to do, the navies and air forces
and the armies have made the legislators’
prophecies or advocacies actuality. Some
of these gentry seem to have been tak-
ing lessons from the all-too-common
order of pressmen who learn in confi-
dence that something is to be done, then
advocate that it should be done, and
finally take the credit for having per-
suaded the Government to do it when the
news becomes public.
Japan’s Bow Window
The area to be pierced might be de-
scribed as Japan’s bow window on
Australia, an imaginary convex line,
curving outwards towards the south-
west, from Salamaua, via the Trobriands,
to New Georgia. Behind this the enemy
in Faisi, in Rabaul, in Gasmata and
Madang and Wewak, had seemingly for
months been setting up the apparatus
of a further offensive against Australia’s
possessions. In point of fact, interior New
Guinea, Milne Bay, Moresby and con-
trol of the Torres Strait were all vital
defensive factors over which the enemy
would, if he could, be bound to take con-
trol in the interests of his own safety,
so as to cut the Australian northern arc
in halves.
Everybody, including the enemy, was
well aware that the fighting season could
be expected to begin this month. North
of the Equator would be warmed by the
full flush of summer. Communications
would be at their best.
In July last year Japan had made the
advance into Papua, and its effort had
reached its culmination in September.
August 7, 1942, had seen the beginning
of the Japanese ebb tide with the landing
of the American Marines on Guadal-
canal.
The entr'acte to the coming storm was
the operations of the Japanese at the
opposite ends of the arc of defence at
the eastern end, the blitzes by massed
Japanese aircraft on the Allied base at
Russell Island, south-west of Japan’s
New Georgia bases, in the mid-Solomons ;
at the north-west end, by the small but
savage attack on the Australian forces
at Mubo, 10 miles from Salamaua.
Both these attacks cost the enemy
dearly. The Mubo attackers by last week-
end were counting their missing and lick-
ing their injuries in the terrible hills
along the Bitoi and Francisco River
valleys, ardently pursued into the bush
by Australian frontal patrols. The
Japanese at Munda, in the Solomons,
found it easier to count those who came
back than those who went, for only 30
’planes or so returned, some looking like
colanders, out of 125 or more which
made the attack. The U.S. Air Force in
the few days before the Allied offensive,
gave them little time to count anything
except Allied aircraft and bombs.
Before the enemy had time to get over
the sharp lessons of Munda and the
Russell Islands, more serious events befell.
Off Nassau’s Bay
He woke at the mid-week to find the
grey seas within sight of Salamaua, to
the south-east, enlivened by skimming
landing barges and by an imposing array
of transports and escort vessels.
Salamaua cannot be very heavily gar-
risoned. The N. Guinea concentration
points of the Japanese are Madang and
Wewak, further up the north coast or
the island. These two mainland New
Guinea areas are estimated to hold any-
thing between 20,000 and 40,000 men
certainly, at least, the lesser number—of
whom at least a couple of brigades are
at Madang. By road-building down the
coast the two centres are rapidly being
knit into one. And Lae and Finschhafen
and Salamaua become more and more
advanced outposts.
Nevertheless Salamaua made an effort
to provide a stiff opposition to its visi-
tors in spite of the shortness of notice,
though the posts round the Francisco
mouth and on Wood Island found this
difficult —a great part of them had been
blown to smithereens the week before.
The enemy has been in residence at
Salamaua since March 2 last year, and
the presence of an Allied force only 1-
miles away from his citadel on the coast,
with only the Bitoi and Francisco rivers
between him and it, was disturbing. Sala-
maua is, with its outposts, his furthest
point of advance towards Australia on
the north-east. Though the bombers have
not left much of its once idyllic peninsula,
all waving palms and sibilant surf and
singing villages before the goldfields
brought it civilisation, an airfield and a
real bar, the Jap is loath for reasons of
morale and otherwise to give it up.
The Australians Junction
Australians who had been waiting five
or six miles from the coast up the wind-
ing Bitoi (Mubo used to be on the Bitoi
before it was lifted bodily skyward) must
have thought the sounds of celebration
on the coast pure music.
They at once began to add a contri-
bution of their own to the racket by lay-
ing into any Japanese they could meet,
particularly into those in Orodubi village,
a lair and stronghold of the enemy on the
Mubo-Salamaua communication line.
The Australians included some tough
northern bushmen and Middle Eastern
veterans seasoned to oak-hardness. Upon
contact with them Private Watakushi
turned tail, leaving a few of his country-
men lifeless behind him, and trekked for
Salamaua. Quietly and methodically
the Australians made their way to Nassau
Bay, while some of their patrols worked
along the Komiatum track to the near
approaches of Salamaua, of which their
outposts were soon within 25-pounder
range—subject to finding positions from
which they could lay guns.
The Australians felt zeal for their
work. They have lived in swamps,
ravines, moss jungles, mangrove jungles,
kunai, trees, foxholes, leech-holes and
other kinds of shelter, mostly wet, for
a long time. For the whole of that time
they have been outnumbered. Their com-
munications with the outside world have
been sketchy and their diet has been
sketchier, this being one part of the world
which Mr. Forde has never visited, and
therefore has never supplied with 12
kinds of tinned fruit and ice-cream.
It is naturally a pleasant change to
these lads to know that their job is no
longer a perpetual jungle see-saw, as un-
ending and indecisive as New Guinea
tides.
Pincers on Salamaua-Lae
By Sunday, four days after the landing
at Nassau Bay, what had been fairly
solid Jap-colored territory between Bob-
dubi and Salamaua in the coastal sector
was distinctly piebald.
From the inland, away to the north-
west of the Nassau operations, strong
men whose quality the enemy learnt
at Wau are moving relentlessly down
the Markham Valley towards Lae. The
whiskered warriors of the Mubo horse-
shoe of investment laid their shadows
across the Komiatum trail. And the fact
that Americans were able to land at
Nassau without interruption and that “O”
fighters and bombers could not do any-
thing about the influx—seven of 30 were
shot out of the air in the week-end by an
umbrella of Lightnings—shows that Im-
perial Nippon’s control of the northern-
most part of the Coral Sea is not what
it was.
The Trobriands and Woodlark
In fact, on all the evidence, there was,
last Wednesday, no Imperial Nippon
control of the Coral Sea. North of
Milne Bay the Australian forces had
already occupied a first line of advance
and some fine harbors in the D’Entre-
casteaux group. On June 30 Americans
stepped onwards 70 or 80 miles to take
possession in force of the Trobriand
group, in which they had patrol outposts
already. Kiriwina Island, which is
shaped like a swimming tadpole, and,
further south-east, Woodlark, which re-
sembles a squat sea-goanna stretching out
to take a bite at little Madau, fell to
them without opposition. On Woodlark
is Kulamadau goldfield; on Woodlark
also many an adventurer’s grave.
After minutely-detailed air preparation,
and with an overpowering air escort, the
expeditions moved in great strength.
Both the Nassau Bay and the Tro-
briands landings are important steps for-
ward. The Buka end of the Solomons
holding positions becomes a third nearer
to Allied bombing bases. Rabaul, once
aerodromes are established in the Tro-
briands, comes within comfortable long-
distance fighter range. So soon as Finsch-
hafen falls the enemy must face the
threat of imminent attack on New
Britain.
In order that Rabaul should not inter-
fere with the preliminary arrangements
for its future entertainment Fortresses
and Liberators harassed its aerodromes
and port every night from Wednesday
onwards. More than 300 tons of bombs
have fallen on Rabaul in a month, 100
tons in four nights before July 4.
Marching to Georgia
Synchronised with the northern ad-
vances, supervised by General MacArthur
in person from newly-established New
Guinea H.Q., United States forces moved
a step forward in the Solomons. It was
an operation which showed how far
attack technique has advanced in the
year since Guadalcanal was invaded. It
was the kind of assault which can only
be carried out by a commander who has
ample resources, abundant swift trans-
port and landing equipment, reserves ad
lib., sky cover to make him confident
and, above all, well-trained men.
It was three-dimensional; it was
worked in perfect co-ordination.
The orders were issued on June 29, too
late in the afternoon for snooping
Japanese to see what was afoot. Soon
after dark, led by a destroyer, a big
convoy was at sea. It rained fitfully.
It was pitch-dark —and nobody who has
not seen the bamboozling darkness of a
tropic night of rain understands even the
elements of blackness.
In a dripping pre-dawn hour the
leading destroyer hove-to off Rendova
“harbor,” not a pleasant spot for a lone
destroyer to be in. Rendova is just off
the south-west coast of New Georgia, the
middle group of the Solomons nearest
the Australian coast, which cluster to-
gether like a lot of frightened elephants
and their calves.
Rendova “harbor” is a sheltered strip
of water between the north-west coast of
the island and some tiny islets which lie
off it. The entrance to those watery
paddocks between Kokira and Bau is not
much more than 100 yards wide ; the sea
around beset with coral heads.
To the commander’s left, as he reached
the entrance, was the headland before
Munda, on New Georgia, which was cer-
tain to be bristling with Jap guns planted
only about the width of lower Sydney
Flarbor away at furthest.
Somewhere handy also was one of the
largest aerodrome organisations in the S.
Pacific. However, all the details had been
ascertained by daring scout parties which
had been landed ahead of the main expe-
dition. , .
Twenty miles in the north, across KuJa
Gulf, loomed the hazy outlines of moun-
tains before which Vila and its air and
naval facilities would be sitting on the
south of Kolombangara Island —or rather
the outlines would have loomed but for
a dreary dawn rain.
Calmly landing reconnaisance parties
on the two islands guarding the Rendova
“harbor” mouth, the command destroyer
drew away towards the north-west, just
as the dawn revealed the convoy coming
to anchor off Rendova.
Three other destroyers joined the
leader as it made across the channel to-
wards the western side of New Georgia. It
was not long before this flotilla achieved
its purpose —to draw the fire and deter-
mine the positions of the two strong
Japanese batteries known to be guarding
the Munda airfield approaches, the
spacious bivouac grounds and the Ren-
dova installations. .
The ships had not long to wait for one
of their adversaries to open up. Shells
crashed ashore and screamed overhead.
A little after seven o’clock, when the sky
had begun to rain m.g. bullets, six whirl-
ing leaves appeared over Munda airfield
amid puffs of varicolored smoke, sullen
against the rainy sky. From then on-
wards Munda had its task set for it by
the U.S. Air Force.
On the destroyers ‘ cease fire sounded.
They speeded back to the convoy, front
which the landing boats shuttled back-
wards and forwards to a beach already
accumulating stores and men.
More destroyers moved into the
channel to decoy the second Japanese
battery, which so far had lain doggo. It
came to light with an earth-shattering
crash. So did the destroyers. Palm-trees
chased divots into the sky. By noon there
were no batteries, but the sky appeared
to get fuller and fuller of aircraft.
Round the landing a sort of celestial
cordon had been built. Every few
minutes, as the enemy tried to break
through, anew part of firmament would
appear to blow up, and the sea would be
churned in a fresh place as one more
disintegrating Japanese ’plane dived into
it.
All Ashore on Rendova
A little after three o’clock the de-
stroyers were able to start for home with
their now-empty convoy. The landing
was complete.
The little ships’ day was not over.
They were dived on with a furious sud-
denness by 25 enemy torpedo bombers,
which came at them with a reckless
abandon, attempting to get at the high-
riding transports, now empty. They
swooped over the destroyers, sometimes
less than mast-high. One which hit the
flotilla’s flagship with a misfiring tin-fish
narrowly missed the ship’s bridge.
The boys of the escorting umbrella
took after them with a passionate scream
of fast-revving engines. The gust of
attack blew itself out with the same sud-
denness with which it had developed. In
ten minutes the destroyers and transports
were looking back at the blazing wrecks
of a dozen of their foes, one of which
had fallen in a tangle right under the
bows of a racing warship, which threw
the remains out on each side of her
cutwater. The last precipitate of the
battle was hidden in a sudden evening
shower. The destroyers came home to
their base as darkness closed.
Landing on New Georgia
It had been as lively a day’s work as
had ever been done at sea. And before
the destroyers left for home the new
Rendova garrison had its batteries in
position and was enlivening the last two
hours of daylight with practice on Munda
across the strait, while the ack-ack and
the U.S.A.F. warded off streams of
visitors.
In the meantime a companion amphi-
bious force had made its way across the
strait on the other side of Rendova and
occupied Viru Harbor on New Georgia,
30 miles to the s.-e. of the first landing,
killing 300 of the enemy.
By nightfall, Rendova’s new masters
had good reason to be satisfied. The ex-
pedition had been led 170 miles through
reef-strewn seas in pitch-blackness by
Australian seamen, pilots in ships and
landing barges. They had seen the de-
fences of Munda paralysed by naval
fire while they came ashore through
perilous channels, and they had seen the
Japanese ’planes brought down in clouds.
They had destroyed Rendova’s garrison.
Vila had been bombarded.
In the continuous air battle carried
on against a background of thunder, 125
enemy machines had by the end of July
1 been brought down for a loss of 30
Americans. By July 4 the losses were
155 Japanese against 31 Allied aircraft.
A Jap naval force of three light cruisers
and three destroyers which had appeared
s.-e. of Rendova and dropped some shells
on the island had been chased off. On
July 3 U.S. warships bombarded Wick-
ham Harbor on Vanganu, east of Ren-
dova, and bombs were dropped there.
Later in the week U.S. forces landed at
Wickham.
Only the First Step
The whole sweep from Nassau Bay
to Rendova is only the first step in the
preliminary round. Should he lose
Rabaul or part of New Britain, the
enemy’s main lines of communication are
threatened. He will scarcely allow that
to happen without a fight. He has, from
Kavieng southwards and westward to
Wewak, a chain of airfields capable of
handling each from 50 to 300 aircraft.
He has strong positions difficult to
approach, like Rabaul itself, mountains
as rough and defendable as Guadalcanal,
one after another to be taken. And
behind the Bismarcks there is 700 miles
of sea guarding his next base at Truk,
where he is known to have more power-
ful naval forces than any seen further
south.
The stage must be reached when the
Japs must fight at sea. Their navy will
try to fight under air cover from the land,
though this is not nearly so necessary as
it was a year ago. Those who believed
that the torpedo-’plane had doomed
battleships and tied naval action to land
bases were wrong. Even if they had been
right, the range of long-distance fighters
has so increased as to widen considerably
the ambit of land-based protection. How-
ever, profiting by the experience of Prince
of Wales and Repulse, naval commands
have seen to it that fleets on the move
now can look after themselves consider-
ably better than 18 months ago.
When and where the enemy is likely to
fight is governed by too many factors to


Divorce Notices.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES— In Divorce.
TO CORNELIUS WHIG HP late of Orange
in the State of New South Wales. —TAKE
NOTICE that EMILY MARIA WRIGHT has
commenced a suit against you (No. 2783 ol
1943) and is seeking a dissolution of her mar-
riage with you on the ground of desertion tor
three years and upwards AND TAKE NOTICE
that you are required to enter an appearance
on or before the Thirty-first day of August One
thousand nine hundred and forty-three A copy
of the petition may be obtained from MES-
SIEURS COLQUHOUN & KING Solicitors
for Petitioner 129 Pitt Street Sydney, (1.5.)
C. K. BODY, Registrar.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES— In Divorce.
TO THOMAS McMULLEN late of Sydney.—
TAKE NOTICE that HELENA OLIVE Mc-
MULLEN has filed a Petition for Divorce No.
778 of 1942 on the grounds of desertion with-
out just cause or excuse for three years and
upwards If you wish to defend you may enter
an appearance at the Divorce Office Supreme
Court King Street Sydney by the 31st August
1943 and obtain a copy of the petition without
charge from C. P WHITE Solicitor 160 CasUe-
reagh Street Sydney.—(L.s.) C. K. BODY,
Registrar.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES— In Divorce.
TO RUPERT JOHN BOYD late of Sydney.—
TAKE NOTICE that MILDRED JANE BOYD
has filed a Petition for Divorce No. 1414 o
1943 on the grounds of desertion without just
cause or excuse for three years and upwards It
you wish to defend you may enter an appear-
ance at the Divorce Office Supreme Court
House King Street Sydney by the 31st Amgust
1943 and obtain a copy of the petition without
charge from C. P WHITE Sohcitor IhG Castle-
reagh Street Sydney.— (l.s.) C. K. BODY,
Registrar.
cn
am
make prophecy more than guesswork.
His most natural course would be to try
to stage the battle as near to Japan as
possible, since that course shortens his
routes of sally and retreat and brings
the Allied forces within reach of shore-
based aircraft.
Japan’s Offensive Threat
Two days before the Allied move in
the South Pacific Major-General Yahagi,
in an official broadcast from Tokyo, said,
with a jubilant note in his voice, that
Japan had completed all preparations to
“strike a decisive blow into the enemy’s
centre by a surprise, dauntless assault,”
and that Japanese forces would soon
swing into anew major campaign the
fate of which would be decided by air-
craft, which also would decide the out-
come of the war. There are some indi-
cations of preparations for attack on
Siberia. Three times, too, in the last few
days Japanese spokesmen have warned
Uncle Sam that he will not get Siberian
bases.
The tune was somewhat different after
the Nassau Bay-Trobriand-Rendova land-
ings, and not so jubilant as might have
been expected of a victorious h.q. which
claimed the sinking, in a single day, of
one American B-class destroyer, four
large and one smaller destroyers of other
classes, besides three transports sunk, two
destroyers and three other transports
damaged and 77 U.S. ’planes shot down
against a loss of 31 Jap machines.
Uncle Sam’s estimate of his shipping
loss was one empty transport —the Mc-
Cawley, 7700 tons —with some personnel
but no troops.
Darwin Raided
The most notable action in parts of
the Australian sector other than the Sala-
maua-Rendova arc was the enemy raid
over Darwin on June 28, when nine
bombers, escorted by nine fighters, caused
slight damage and were driven off by
Spitfires with a probable loss of two
bombers and two fighters. Two Spitfires
were forced down, one on an airstrip
and the other on a clearing. One, the
pilot reported, had developed engine
trouble after a successful combat with a
Zero.
Tokyo mentioned the Darwin raiding
on June 28 in a headquarters announce-
ment. It asserted that army ’planes had
taken part in attacks on Australia for the
first time on June 20 and 22, all previous
operations having been carried out by the
navy.
The army machines, the communique
said, had taken off from secret land bases
established during the past three months.
This development meant that the war in
the s.-w. Pacific was “entering anew
phase.”
From Cologne to Trapani.
“Ek Dum”: A terrible air raid at the
beginning of last week made Cologne
the R.A.F.’s exhibit “A” in wrecked cities.
At the week-end the R.A.F. completed
its work with a supplementary raid on
the suburbs east of the Rhine.
The great old-world city centres
round its big railway station, near the
Hohenzollern bridge, and the adjacent
twin-spired cathedral, which forms the
pivot of a winding medieval inner town
and shopping centre with imposing
churches, hotels and civic buildings and a
layout like a Murrumbidgee rabbit warren.
After the June 28 raid Berlin Radio
cried out that the great cathedral had
been destroyed. An exaggeration ; the
towering old building had been badly
battered, but its twin spires stand.
The railway station had been flattened.
Just across the street from the cathedral,
it is one of the strategically most im-
portant stations in western Europe, a
military target that it was essential to wipe
out. Even a large railway station is likely
to be overlapped by a blockbuster placed
squarely in the centre of it, and buildings
round the fringes are likely to be con-
siderably damaged.
One report declared that serious dam-
age was done to the Hohenzollern bridge,
a few hundred yards from the cathedral,
and that all the surrounding old-world
scenery left by the raid of June, 1942,
in the vicinity—judging by the R.A.F.
pictures, it was not much —had been
finally reduced to rubble.
The Hohenzollern bridge is (or was)
a double structure, doubly arched, and
its railway section carries four tracks
and a train a minute in normal times.
On the night of the first Cologne raid
the R.A.F. also paid a visit to Hamburg
and laid mines on a large scale. The
night’s work cost 25 bombers. After the
second raid on the eastern suburbs (July
3), with attacks on the Ruhr and Ham-
burg, 32 machines failed to return,
In between northern Europe seemed
to be one vast if sporadic air battle, and
Italy’s coastal regions much the same,
Nowhere along the French or North Sea
coast was it possible to use the roads
w ‘* h ° ut tbe cb ? nce f , walkin S into the
middle of aerial combat.
Ships and trains travel by night where
p OSS jble. Goods trains which have to
abroad in daylight carry ack-ack pro-
tection. Enemy transport moves across
country inste ad of by road, and sneaks
along under the shadows of hedges. And
Germans who look west from the borders
of p russ i a can see a continual glow in
t b e s ky—Cologne burning, Dortmund
burning, Dusseldorf burning,
j n three months to June 26 the R.A.F.
a lone dropped 37,500 tons of bombs on
Germany, three times the quota of the
same period last ye ar, anc i j 5,000 tons
j n 20 nights.
American raiding is growing in volume
as new American aerodromes come into
use The largest mark attacked in the
north last week was Le Mans, h.q. of
the Renault Co., 115 miles s.-w. of Paris,
and France’s motor-racing centre,
After this raid Fortresses attacked St.
Nazaire and Beaumont-le-Roger, where
t h e installations of the fighter airfield
seemed to be wiped out.
Italy’s quota included the contents of
jqq Fortresses decanted over Leghorn in
nine minutes. There the raiders were
no t opposed ; over St. Nazaire, observers
reported, “you could walk on the flak.”
Sicily and Sardinia and the toe of Italy
lived under a hail of fire and explosive.
Tbe Italians are making little resistance.
At the week-end the Allies heavily raided
ol | r bi l ses he , Calabn “ toe of
Italy ; Greek airfields also were given sen-
ous attention. And, according to Rome
? adl0 > a few ‘'( agm 7“ ta bo ” bs f w f h r !
dropped on'Ostia the litfie port at he
mouth of the Tiber, 15 miles fron
hea f‘ Rome and Fmmmcmo another
f ort subarb - There was no confirmation
Mom Allied sources.
There have been reconnaissance reports
that , h f. Mahans were blowing up port
installations at Trapani, on the extreme
g-, w ' ti P 9 f 4 ® l ™ l “ *f‘ ° f
P ate ™° and a llttle over 100 mlles from
Cape rson.
Churchill in the City.
“E.D.”: In July last year, indulging in
a corroboree over the alleged sinking of
more than 800,000 tops of Allied mer-
chant shipping in a month, a Berlin naval
officer treated the world to the following
symposium:
Every U-boat should now be named
“King Neptune”; for they are all the kings
of the sea. British seamen shiver at their
name. British warships—his Majesty’s
vaunted warships—skulk in their ports
hemmed in by German mines. The Suez
Canal is an abandoned ditch; it is
scarcely worth while to bomb it any more.
And General Rommel’s troops are picnick-
ing in the suburbs of Cairo and Alexandria.
They are not in a hurry to capture them —
they are accumulating supplies so that they
may take the rest of the rotten Empire of
ill-gotten gains in Mittelasien at one gulp.
Last week Mr. Churchill journeyed
to the City of London. He was
surrounded by the same Ministers, the
same military, naval and air advisers as
had been behind him when he made his
speech of promise in 1940, six weeks be-
fore the terrible blitz of December 29.
This time he went to the Guildhall,
battered and charred by that blitz.
He was able to tell the Germans that
their U-boats were no longer qualified
to be candidates for the title of King
Neptune. Forty had been destroyed in
May, and their packs had been withdrawn
to lick their wounds and mourn their
dead. Since the middle of May not a
single Allied merchantman had been
sunk in the North Atlantic, while the
Typhoons had blasted enemy ships to
the bottom off the Dutch coast three or
five at a time.
The Mediterranean had become a
British-controlled sea over which British
ships once more roved under an umbrella
of Allied fighters. Rommel was no longer
“picnicking in the suburbs of Cairo and
Alexandria,” though some hundreds of
thousands of his supporters were taking
long sea voyages, carefully guarded. The
Suez Canal was well beyond the reach of
practising Stukas and Henkels.
As for the air war, it was expanded in
such a way that soon no industrial or
military target in Germany would be
“safe from the utmost application of our
exterminating forces”:
In the first half of 1943 the R.A.F. alone
cast on Germany 35 times the tonnage of
bombs that in the same six months had
been discharged on these islands. In a
single hour we cast on Diisseldorf 2000
tons of terrible explosive and incendiary
bombs for the loss of 38 aircraft, while
in the whole first half of 1943 the enemy
discharged on us not more than 1500 tons
of bombs at a cost of 245 aircraft.
The bombing of Italy he called “prelimi-
nary and discursive bombardments only,”
adding that very probably there would
be heavy fighting in the Mediterranean
and elsewhere “before the leaves of
autumn fall”:
We strove long—too long—for peace,
but from the moment we guaranteed that
we would not stand by and see Poland
trampled down we never looked back, never
flagged, never doubted, never flinched....
We seek no profit, want no territory,
aggrandisement, and expect no reward. We
will seek no compromise.
Listening to the spokesman of this terrible
country which kept its head amid all the
shouting, which remained calm under all
abuse and sneers, the heart of many a
Japanese must have turned to water at
words which promised that, if the Euro-
pean Axis were first defeated, every man,
every ship, every aeroplane in the King’s
service that could be moved to the Pacific
would be sent there and maintained in
action “for as many years as need be
to make Japan submit or bite the dust.”
Two Lulls.
“Ek Bum”: Two mysterious lulls in the
world war are those in Russia and China.
In Russia last week even the heavy
local face-slapping died down. Most of
the correspondents are silent or out of
the country. The air-raiding of communi-
cations, described as “heavy,” would not
be so adjudged by Western standards.
Time moves on and neither side moves
with it. Yet, if Russia is strong enough
to strike, delay is not on the Red Army’s
side, for the food situation cannot be
improving. There must be a monthly
deficit in food production, getting worse
each week. Grain is not enough and
Russia is bare of local fats.
All the Allies can do cannot mend
food deficiencies, since even 1,000,000
tons of provender does not go far among
130,000,000 or 140,000,000 cold and
hard-working people. And Russia can-
not relish another winter campaign ; on
Moscow’s own figures, losses of men and
material last winter were desperately large.
If the Red Army is to win a decisive
victory, it must be one pushed home in
the summer months. And if it is en-
visaged that this year’s victories are to
be left to the western Allies while Russia
holds the fort in the east, one would
expect strong and continuous blows to
be struck by the Russians in order to
drain German divisions from the west,
to facilitate the Anglo-American troops’
most vital operation—the securing of a
foothold on European soil.
If Russia is not strong enough to
strike, the Germans, on their perform-
ance at Kharkov, on the Isyum sector
and in the Kuban, and with 200-odd
divisions, should be able at least to harry
the Russians on a formidable scale, thus
calling reserves away from the harvest-
ing and adding to the load on Anglo-
American transport and man-power by
making the Russians exhaust an appre-
ciable part of their supplies.
The effect, too, of the quiescence of
the Russian front on German morale
cannot be good. But there has been no
more activity on the German side than
on the Russian side.
Germany has more reason for delay.
The enemy occupies the most productive
part of Russia, and, as regards food,
time is on his side. So, too, he needs all
the time, man-power and armament he can
spare to prepare against the deluge in the
west, which will be at its height next year.
Possibly each side is sparring for an
opening at some point which presents ad-
vantages for a —it probably would be the.
—decisive battle. Or possibly each has
a strategy of delay worked out based on
the accumulation of resources for a
supreme test next spring.
At the same time it is vital to Hitler,
whatever else he fails in, to beat the
U.S.S.R. or to prevent the Russians from
being strong enough to dominate the
peace in Continental Europe. Every hour
he delays tells against the chance of
achieving this objective.
To secure it he must have Russia
routed and his own wounds licked and
losses made good before next February
at the latest. And every moment of
delay tells against his chance of this.
Mysterious China
In China there is practically no fight-
ing. Yet if Japan is capable of the same
tenacity and efficiency shown in the
drives on Malaya, Burma, the D.E.I. and
the New Guinea-Solomons area, China
should be on the edge of defeat.
The Chinese are mainly dependent on out-
side help. They have not had much at any
time, and only a dribble for a long time.
While France was in the war Chung-
king’s main supply lines were through
Indo-China. But even then the intake
was only about 40,000-45,000 tons a
month—only sufficient to keep a couple
of divisions in the field.
Till after the fall of France, the Burma
Road accounted for only 3000 tons a
month, which would not keep a modern
brigade fully stocked in a fighting line.
After the Japanese took over Indo-China
the Burma Road traffic was built up, but
it never at any time reached 15,000 tons
a month.
Since the beginning of March, 1942,
aerial supplies taken over on the Tibet
side can scarcely have done more than
keep up medium quantities of urgently
needed armament, food and replacements
to the U.S, Air Force at Chungking.
Nevertheless, Japan has made no seri-
ous attempt to capitalise the situation.
Traffic, to some extent, goes on between
North and South China. The inhabitants
of the Chungking area live in a state of
awful financial inflation and of conse-
quent shortage of almost all the bare
necessities of life. And there seems to
be no chance of aiding them substantially
for some time to come —at least for
nearly a year though long-range
American aircraft have arrived.
Possibly there is something in the
curious situation connected with the exist-
ence of Communist armies in the Chung-
king area and the desire of the Japanese
not to jeopardise relations with Russia
by coming to serious blows with them.
Certainly the Chungking Government
is not to blame, because it has not the
initiative, though it has shown an un-
bounded will to fight.
In brief:
General MacArthur on July 1 reported the
sinking of a medium-sized U.S. cargo §hip and
a smaller vessel off the East Australian coast.
From both ships 26 were killed or missing and
14 wounded. Several Australians were rescued.
A survivor from one ship said that the attack
was made at dusk and that those rescued were
in a lifeboat for 24 hours.
* * * *
At the week-end Japanese ’planes were re-
ported to have made three attempts to sink
a small merchantman and its naval escort oft
the Arnhem Land coast, near Milingimbi.
Beaufighters drove off the attackers in two later
attacks. During the first a Hudson appeared
and shot one of the raiders out of the air.
* * * *
Malcolm MacDonald, Britain’s High Com-
missioner to Canada, says at least 14 U-boats
were sunk in the last fortnight of June.
* * * *
The U.S. Navy now reports the number of
Japanese ships (naval and otherwise) sunk since
the outbreak of war at 1031 —645 by the U.S.
Navy and 386 by General MacArthur’s forces.
Total number of naval ships sunk by the U.S.
Navy is placed at 125, and General MacArthur’s
force is credited with 41.
* * * *
The Admiralty mentioned that on July 4
“another great Allied convoy” had “safely
crossed the Atlantic.” Carrier-borne and land-
based aircraft provided shore-to-shore protection.
One U-boat was sunk and two damaged during
an unsuccessful two-day pursuit of the convoy.


-
W&
m ,W
■
■ :
v si' W'M
m.
■
-
iWA
W&mm
-M ' -
Pill
.
R
■
s
p* Hi
JR II 111 J
mIN
■
• ■ ■
Personal and Missing Friends.
TO ANNIE FULLER formerly of 2 St. Kin-
nord Street Essendon in the State of Victoria
married woman and JOSEPH BRASSINGTON
formerly of the said address. —TAKE NOTICE
that JOHN HENRY FULLER the husband
of the said ANNIE FULLER of 766 Drum-
mond Street Carlton in the said State has
instituted proceedings against both of you for
divorce on the ground of adultery UNLESS
you enter an appearance in the Prothonotary s
Office Law Courts William Street Melbourne
in the said State of Victoria on or before the
Fourteenth day of July 1943 the said suit will
proceed in your absence and a decree for Dis-
solution of Marriage may be granted and yon
may be ordered to pay costs If you intend to
defend this suit you must also file an answer
in the said office ten days after appearance.
DATED this 28th day of June 1943. JAMES
PATRICK HENNESSY, of 186 Elgin Street.
Carlton, in the said State, Solicitor for the
Petitioner.
HOTEL METROPOLE
Bent, Phillip and Young Streets, Sydney.
«
mr*'
m
mm
ill
imm J
film
ill
li m**i\
*
Modern high-cbss accommodation
at a moderate tariff. Hot and cold
water and telephone in all rooms.
Rooms with private Bathrooms
available. Meals at moderate rates —
unexcelled cuisine—Dining Rooms,
Grill Room, Banquet Room and
Wintergarden, together with a first-
class orchestra.
ROOMS-ONLY RATES.
Single Rooms from 7/- per night
Double Rooms from 13/- per night
Telegrams, Cables and Wireless:
“METROPOLE,” Sydney.
Telephones:
8W2061 (9 lines)
86363 (4 lines)
SPORTING NOTIONS
(Conducted by "PILOT")
A weight-for-age win or two would
cover the cost of another trip to Aus-
tralia for Kindergarten in the spring, but
whether he comes seemingly depends
upon whether his owner is satisfied with
his Cup weight. E. N. Fitzgerald is
making that race his objective, but, great
as he has proved himself, success will be
a stiff task for Kindergarten. He was
weighted at 9.13 last year, with Beau Vite
(9.10) and Beaulivre (9.5) nearest him.
With nothing of the class of Beau Vite
engaged this time. Kindergarten has gone
up to 10.6. Archer won with 10.2,
Carbine 10.5, Phar Lap 9.12, Malua 9.9
and Peter Pan 9.10, but since the last-
named the most weight successfully car-
ried was 8.5 by The Trump, and Beau
Vite’s 9.10 in 1941 the most by a minor-
place getter. If Kindergarten is a Cup
acceptor he is bound to be one of the
short-priced division, and there is sure
to be a lot of Maoriland money for him,
but in view of past results some promi-
nent bookmakers will be tempted to
gamble against him.
Tranquil Star won the last Caulfield
Cup with 8.12, and then failed in the
Melbourne Cup with 9.3. This year,
with 31b. less, she is one of the heavy-
weights likely to be in the market. She
will meet Colonus (first) 201 b., Phocion
(second) 121 b. and Heart’s Desire (third)
91b. better. She is 51b. better off as com-
pared with Pandect, 31b. with Skipton,
141 b. with Dark Felt, 221 b. with Great
Britain, and 251 b. with Amazed, but the
last-mentioned two were only three years
when they ran in the last Cup. Two
miles may be a shade far for Tranquil
Star, but she is nicely weighted.
With uncertainty as to transport mak-
ing it doubtful to what extent N.S.W.
will be represented in the Melbourne
Cup, it is waste of time seriously discuss-
ing prospects of this State’s horses at this
stage. However, if they do manage to
get to the other side and all goes well
with them. Tidemark and Main Topic are
the two most likely to receive backers’
attention, though the former, is better
treated in the Caulfield Cup.
• * * *
Benghazi, aged four and youngest
horse in the field, should justify his
favoritism for the G.N. Hurdle at Flem-
ington next Saturday. He has thrived
since his impressive win in the Port
Phillip Hurdle at Flemington, and,
although short on good looks, is long
on stamina. Penalised 61b., his 10.4 rep-
resents only 21b. more than he carried
in the Pt. Phillip, and, at his age, con-
siderable improvement can be expected.
Service men will take more than a
passing interest in Benghazi’s per-
formance. His part-owner is L/sgt. H.
Thompson, one of the “rats of Tobruk,”
and now at another battle station.
Thompson has never seen Benghazi race.
Jack’s performance in winning at
Moonee Valley impressed the handi-
capper to the extent of a 61b. penalty.
The manner of the win could not be
faulted, but, although Jack has worked
and schooled well meantime, he is not as
seasoned as Benghazi. He did not have
his first race until October last year, and
has raced only 12 times in all. Seasoned
condition generally tells at the end of a
strenuous three miles, and Benghazi has
the pull in that respect.
Isambard, poor second to Saul in the
G.N. Hurdle last year, showed by a
sound hurdle school at Flemington on
Saturday that he is back to his best. He
has his share of weight with 11.5, but
has a better Flemington record than any
other candidate, and his class will take
him a long way. Claudette also has
schooled well since running second to
Gay Invader in the Ascot National, and
she may be a good substitute for her
stable-mate Saul, early favorite who had
to be scratched because of injury. An-
papejo took no harm from his unlucky
fall at the Valley, he and his stable-mate
Gay Invader being other possibilities.
Gay Invader’s stamina is doubted by most
backers, but he may be hard to run down.
* * * * ,
It is unusual for a filly to be rated
superior to the best of the rising three-
year-old colts in the Melbourne Cup, but
handicapper Davis has given Simmering
a pound over w.f.a., and the best of the
colts a pound under the scale. Falcon
Knight, a gelding, is rated better than the
colts, being allotted exactly weight-for-age.
• * * •
In Australia the pace generally goes
on in the latter part of middle-distance
races. It is the reverse in America,
where fields go off at top speed and slow
down over the last two or three furlongs.
When Count Fleet recently won the Ken-
tucky Derby he cut out the first half-
mile in 46} and six furlongs in 1.12|,
but the final half-mile of the mile and
a quarter took 5 If, and the last fur-
long 13}, though the winner did it easily.
A week after the Kentucky Derby, Count
Fleet won the Preakness, $43,190 first
money (£A1295), at Pimlico, Baltimore,
making his total earnings $202,260
(£A68,618). His Preakness dividend was
at the rate of 9 to 1 on. There were
only four runners, and one of these.
New Moon, was merely started for the
£A6OO which fourth place carried. He
finished last, 30 lengths behind Count
Fleet. Blue Swords, for the sixth time
in his career, was second to Count Fleet,
and was beaten eight lengths.
* * * *
The most successful rider in America
last year was J. Adams with 245 wins.
He also led in 1937 with 260. He is de-
scribed as pudgy, with long body, short
arms and legs. Rides with a loose rein
and likes to come along on the outside
of a field.
* * * *
For some races in England, particu-
larly those run at middle and long
distances, it is stipulated there must be
at least 20 entries. At the Newmarket
Craven meeting in April three of these
races did not fill, and had to be reopened.
This caused the Hon. G. Lambton, one
of England’s best-known trainers, to
point out that the number of distance
horses of over three years being trained
at Newmarket was now very limited, and
that few trainers of three-year-olds like
running them against older horses so
early in the year. Therefore the con-
tinuance of the stipulation regarding
number of entries would lead to Eng-
land having no stayers, no jockeys who
could ride long races and no trainers who
could train for long distances, which
would mean the end of the supremacy of
the English thoroughbred.
In the various States trainers’ licenses
will be issued at the beginning of next
month, and, as usual, a glance over the
lists will make one wonder whether some
trainers are properly classified. Men
who, with small teams, turn out very few
winners are often deserving of sym-
pathy. Not so those who look to other
trainers’ horses, more than their own,
to give them a living as advisers either
to bookmakers or punters.
* * * *
Owners and trainers should not flatter
themselves that their golden era will com-
mence immediately the Sydney T.C.
starts operations, which it presumably
will. There is a lot of expenditure to be
met before prize-money receives its full
share of attention.
* * * *
The idea has prevailed during the past
fortnight that we have finished with race-
less Saturdays, but though that would be
pleasing to everyone associated with rac-
ing, there is still doubt as to such opti-
mism being warranted. Representations
have been made to the Prime Minister
as to the restoration of the first Saturday
each month, but from Canberra there is
word that he desires further expression of
opinion from the leading racing clubs
before taking any action, also that he has
not changed his views concerning the ban.
There is, however, a possibility of the
matter being considered at a Federal
Cabinet meeting this week.
Racing is still going strongly in South
Africa. On the opening day of the Dur-
ban T.C. winter meeting last month the
programme ran into nine races, the first
being run at 11.30 a.m. and the last at
4.30 p.m.
Miscellaneous
The 15,000 who turned up at Haw-
thorn saw a dingdonggo between the home
side and Footscray, with Hawthorn using
low passes to beat the wind. The Hawks
got there by 13.11 to 11.13. At Fitzroy
the locals brushed Collingwood aside and
ran to a 15.18-9.11 win, and something
of the same sort happened at Richmond,
where the Tigers scored 13.7 to North
Melbourne’s 9.2. Melbourne dished St.
Kilda by 16.14 to 12.10 and Carlton
broke away from the start to lead South
Melbourne home by 15.13 to 10.13. With
Essendon one up, Fitzroy and Hawthorn
together and Richmond and Footscray
next, the final four is beginning to
emerge.
* * * *
Randwick made a great effort to lower
Manly’s colors in the Sydney Union com-
petition. After losing a man early in
the second half and being deprived of a
try by a doubtful decision, ’Wick was
overborne, and Manly ended with 15
points to five. East (9-3 against North)
seems the only other team likely to
trouble Manly. Other games:
West 8, Gordon 8; Uni. 13, Drummoyne 3;
St. George 24, Parramatta 18.
* * * «
Though, on various pretexts, Sunday
football has been established in Sydney
for years, the Americans had to play
their Independence Day match on the
Sports Ground instead of the Sydney
C.G. In the result about 33,000 people
crammed in somehow, thousands being
turned away. The match was between
Army and Navy, and was vigorous
always ; Army won 14 to nil, whether by
football, acrobatic skill on the sidelines
or on the voices was not clear. There
was too much knocking off for consulta-
tions or speeches to suit the Australian
taste.
* * * *
Though far below the class of Carroll,
Uren and Kay, Hockey Bennell, at
Leichhardt on Thursday night, repeated
the performance of giving Tommy Col-
teaux a stone or so and a beating;
and Colteaux is styled middleweight
champion. A packed house saw Bennell
win decisively on points. He got home
with many snappy blows, whereas the
solider Colteaux deliveries seldom landed.
Inches shorter and 11 pounds lighter,
Jim Grey got all over Joe Delaney at
the Sydney Stadium ; Delaney failed to
win one of the 12 rounds. Grey rarely
stopped shooting home straight punches,
mostly to the body. A young man from
Mt. Isa, he was seconded by Ambrose
Palmer, who has taken him in hand.
Always a favorite in Sydney, the Vic-
torian was loudly applauded when he got
into the ring to referee Hebberd v.
Spargo. He did not have to deliver a
verdict; after the seventh Spargo said
his right eye was out of action.
G.N. HURDLE.
By “PILOT.”
Isambard .. .. .. 1
Benghazi .. .. .. 2
Jack .. .. • • .. 3
By Our Melbourne Representative .
Benghazi .. .. 1
Jack .. .. •• .. 2
Isambard or Claudette .. 3
FOR CANTERBURY PARK.
(Before acceptances.)
By “ PILOT.”
Trial Stakes: Monaro, 1 ; Barren-
joey, 2; Great Scot, 3.
Nursery Handicap : Frontier, 1 ;
Annie Laurie, 2; Caspian or Miss
Canberra, 3.
Turf Club Handicap: Hesione,
1 ; Hall Stand, 2 ; Tel Asur, 3.
Canterbury Handicap; Red Pete,
1 ; Casket King, 2 ; Many Ways, 3.
Three- and Four-year-old Handi-
cap: Dick Whittington or Hauteur,
1 ; Valoroi, 2 ; Jungle King, 3.
Campsie Handicap; Bona Fide,
1 ; Windbrook, 2 ; Gauntlet, 3.


Women's Letters
From Melbourne
Hats have been coming right down on
the head lately. Winter winds and the
shortage of the tidy-making hair net have
caused the previously hatless sorority to
look around for a roof over their heads,
and more particularly over their back
hair. The result has been a return of the
beret, either as its simple Basque-fisher-
man self or in a glorified version. Another
development has been along the lines of
the little flat affairs the Court of the last
of the Bourbons got about in, usually in
velvet with or without a little matching
feather. These are, like the beret, the
revival of a past fashion, being of 1934-5
vintage, when the historical play
“Margot” set the craze going in Paris
and later in London.
Those who like to speed the departing
—and journeyings among the officially-
permitted are frequent and extensive
these days —are finding their style
cramped by a marked shortage of the
more consoling beverages. The days
when, complaining bitterly all the while
about restrictions, one could somehow
get all one wanted have gone for the
ordinary citizen. The family wine mer-
chant who patted father on the head
when pa was six and supplied the cham-
pagne for old Uncle Henry’s wedding
now has to admit to the most favored
that his stocks are to all intents and pur-
poses non est most of the time. In the
circumstances a kind word and a cup of
coffee are about the utmost that can be
done in the valedictory way.
A new method of cultivating staying-
power among voluntary canteen workers,
who tend to be here today and gone to-
morrow —it is hard, unpleasant work,
with precious little glamor attached—is
being tried by one of this city’s young
matrons. The plan is to provide a re-
ward, in the shape of a species of unh
form, for those who show zeal and per-
sistence in making the canteen run
smoothly. The work of keeping the can-
teens going has fallen on women who
have maidless households to keep up
(no easy job in these days of no de-
liveries), and a spot of encouragement
is not out of place.
A scheme for bringing a wide circle
of people into the fund-raising orbit will
be tried during the National Theatre
Movement’s season of “The Cuckoo in
the Nest” for p.o.w. funds. The Red
Cross Junior Competition is the sponsor
of the season, and, instead of the usual
plan of running the show from the cen-
tral organisation, individual groups spon-
soring babies in the Junior Competition
will make themselves responsible for a
night apiece, selling tickets and arranging
for sweet-selling and other activities.
Guiding the whole will be the Angliss
lady and Gertrude Johnston, the National
Theatre Movement’s presiding genius.
The show will run from August 2 to
August 14.
Owing to the big effort on the part of
hospitality centres and American resi-
dents here, most Allied service men were
hopping as the Glorious Fourth came in,
some at the Children’s Hospital Auxil-
iary’s Ball, where a bright floor show
, ushered in the midnight hour, and others
at the U.S.W.A.C. Service Club, where
turkey and cranberry sauce had appeared
on the dinner menu in traditional style.
The decorations for the American Ball
at the Town Hall were clever, illustrat-
ing scenes from U.S. life and history in
“child-drawing” style. In spite of
coupons, evening frocks were as bright
as, if not better than, ever. Some of the
most strikingly gowned lasses were those
who wore contrasting two-color blouse-
and-skirt frocks, the blouses in plain
bright colors, with darker contrasting
skirls.
Helen Fowler, daughter of the well-
known specialist of this city, is following
the parental path, not as a medico but
as pathologist at Prince Henry’s Hospital.
Helen acquired her science degree a little
over a year ago, and was a resident
student of Janet Clarke Hall during her
university days. Since then she’s been
getting some experience in industrial
chemistry.
Latest recruit to the ranks of Austra-
lian Red Cross Hospital visitors is Mel-
bourne presswoman Pat Weetman. She
brings to the job the skill in dealing with
varied personalities that a good reporter
develops. Her experience has brought her
in touch with many aspects of the general
scene, from the social calendar to political
reporting, and her writing ability should
be a boon to the sick lad who just can’t
think of anything to put between “Dear
Mother” and “Yours ever.” An Apple
Islander by birth, Pat was educated at
the Sacre Cosur Convent, Melbourne. At
‘ he moment Heidelberg Hospital isi her
base of operations, where she is gaming
a preliminary insi g ht into all sides of
hospital life
. cleverness in thinking
Wlth their nhln
U P P o P ul “ and interesting ways of help-
'"B ® B°° “mie. Women’s
Auxiliary Corps) are hard at it collecting
[® Cl b P f te s e h er C e 00 a nd y sold to aid the
%%
h.v. all
some that were inscribed in the family
recipe book by grandma two generations
Cakes? £ r B which American women
are famous, will be a major feature. Mrs.
Q H wU , fee edit( ; r . in . chief .
Mrs. Bradley (Eunice Garland to the
musical) is news at the moment as mother
of very young violinist Desmond Bradley,
She is a musician of some note in her
own right, and showed it at small son’s
last concert by acting as his accom-
P a nist. She is well known as a pianist in
P and outside and hag been
heard the radio _ Her husband,
Reginald Bradley, completes a trio of
musical talent. Lots of schemes are afoot
to launch Desmond’s career, and musical
circles, including the Lady Mayoress,
Mrs. Campbell, who makes a point of
encouraging young talent, are interested
in arranging for special studies for him.
Incidentally, mother and son share the
same auburn hair.
The Women’s Hospital is asking for
voluntary helpers to lend a hand with its
new nursery-kindergarten under the guid-
ance of a trained director. Another want
of the hospital is more hands to the job
of knitting and sewing hospital clothes
for patients. There should be a good
response, as helping hospitals is a work
that appeals to most women. The nur-
series that have been opened to date
have been surprised at the hearty re-
sponse to their call for voluntary workers.
Other things badly needed by “the
Women’s” are fruit, vegetables and jam.
These are things the amateur war-time
gardener often has too much of, the
fruits of the earth flourishing sometimes
in an unpredictable way.
Tackling the problem of carrying kin-
dergarten principles into the home life
of children, the committee of the Ada
a’Beckett Kindergarten at Fishermen’s
Bend discussed plans for giving public
lectures for the benefit of mothers. The
new Community Hall offers a suitable
spot for this, and the plans include
lessons in cooking with the idea of the
conservation of nutriment. Medical
authorities have been pointing out for
many years that many children even of
parents in comfortable circumstances are
actually undernourished by reason of
faulty cookery. The formation of a
Kindergarten Library containing pam-
phlets on dressmaking and cooking which
mothers may consult is under discussion.
News of the death in Sydney of Mrs.
J. R. Fenner is causing much sadness
among her many Melbourne friends. As
Beverly Slaney she was a familiar figure
at charity mannequin parades before the
war, distinguished by her long golden
hair. She was interested in character
dancing, and toured with La Meri as
well as appearing in many amateur
shows. She was the daughter of Lieut.-
Colonel and Mrs. T. B. Slaney.
For those whose umbrellas have de-
veloped rents and diseases of the ribs
the “new coats for old umbrellas” ser-
vices which are popping up are a find.
The old skeleton can be dressed up anew
in tartan (if the owner is of Scottish ex-
traction) or in sober silks to match cos-
tume or anything else that may need
matching.
From Sydney
The Star-spangled Banner, the Union
Jack and Australia’s flag beamed amiably
on one another as they flew proud in the
light breeze of last Sunday. America’s
Independence Day, midsummer in the
States, midwinter in Sydney, was a day on
which Allies in our midst gambolled gaily
to Australian applause. Festivities, of
course, commenced on Saturday with a
dance at the American Red Cross Ser-
vice Club. This was the usual Saturday
night dance but all set about with Ameri-
can college songs. The same club put on
a menu through which turkey and cran-
berry sauce and ices printed with the
American flag shed their lustre. That
was to get everybody strong enough for
the big gridiron football match at Sydney
Sports Ground. Many private parties and
a dance on Sunday evening at the Troca-
dero rounded off the day.
Sir Ronald Cross will come from Can-
berra for the sixty-second annual meeting
of the Mission to Seamen, which will be
held in the main hall of the Rawson Insti-
tute on July 14. Archbishop Mowll will
preside. Chairman of committees Eva will
speak, as will the chaplain, Padre Good-
win. Admiral Muirhead-Gould, Bishop
Hilliard, G. R. Rickards, T. R. Toovey,
W. W. Service, D. F. Middleton and
R. C. Benbow will be among the movers
and seconders of motions.
War has brought some changes to the
George-street North establishment. Now
the first floor is used mainly for men
whose ships have been torpedoed or
wrecked. The room previously set aside
for apprentices has been fitted as a dor-
mitory with 30 beds, and another 30 can be
made ready at short notice. Fifty com-
plete sets of new clothing are always on
hand for men meeting with disaster.
The Flying Angel Merchant Service
Club is the pride of the establishment.
This occupies a suite of rooms on the
lower floor. The old gymnasium, brightly
decorated and mechanically ventilated,
makes an ideal social hall. A large
new tallowwood dancing floor makes
it, when required, an ideal ball-
room. Near by are a canteen and shop.
Here, too, is a well-equipped kitchen
where hot meals are prepared. A billiard-
room and a lounge, set at one end with
writing tables, are other comforts.
Margaret Fraser, who made a hit as
one of the leads in the recent A.B.C.
Dramatic Club’s presentation of “Quiet
Night” at the Conservatorium, is known
as “talks presentation officer” at the
A. This means that she helps
speakers with their scripts and micro-
phone technique. White studying in Lon-
don she won a diploma for elocution and
drama at the Royal Academy of Music,
where she also gained the Shakspearean
prize. Margaret also acted in scenes from
Shakspeare and in verse plays for the
B. “Quiet Night” is a comedy by
Dorothy Blewett, of Melbourne. It was
winner of the W.A. drama festival com-
petition in 1941.
No union hours for the trig sister
(Muriel Steinbeck) who is in charge of
Dr. Clitterhouse’s rooms, London (Eng-
land). She is one of those ack emma
workers. One o’clock in the morning,
four o’clock in the morning, and sister
is on the spot, apron uncreased and
sparkling with efficiency, light-blue frock
likewise, no tired lag in the arches or
insteps of the_ neatly-clad feet. Her em-
ployer, too, is one of those lads to whom
fatigue is but a word in the dictionary.
But then there is reason for his insouci-
ance. He can pinch thousands of pounds’
worth of sparklers as easily as he can
pluck out an appendix. The Minerva (just
around the corner from King’s Cross) is
housing the two. A packed audience last
Wednesday night greeted the show, and
last Saturday afternoon the box-office
queue stretched into Orwell-street.
The Contemporary Art Society had a
crowded and spirited opening last week-
Dr. Van Der Bias, Chief Commissioner for
the Netherlands Indies in Australia and
Maoriland, came specially from Mel-
bourne to make the opening speech. Rah
Fizelle and Carl Plate were on the plat-
form of the Education Galleries with
him, behind them a triptych by James
Gleeson, whose brush has caught the
rose-reds and blues of old Italian paint-
ings. There are 346 exhibits, some from
Victoria, Queensland and South Aus-
tralia. Lieut. D. H. Russell, of the
U.S.A., shows some Sydney scenes. Alto-
gether there is variety, and here and there
a little gem. Elaine Haxton came to the
show, a red scarf on her head, fastened
with a silver disc above each ear, but
below the Romany-like headdress in just
strong-minded tweeds. She had sold a
picture to the National Gallery—a blue-
clad boy holding a black rooster with a
scarlet comb.
Margaret Preston, too, caught the eye
of the Gallery buyer. A smart looker-
on was Dora Jarret, just returned from
Melbourne. Mrs. Clement Chapman, in
deep blues, a petunia in her hat; Dame
Constance D’Arcy, in sapphire blues;
Mrs. Don Foy and Mrs. Eileen Mason
were among the noted. Lute Drummond,
Constance Pickworth and Florence Birch
formed a group. Sydney Ure Smith and
Howard Hinton were callers. Mrs. Ted
Scorfield was another. At the door Mrs.
H. McClintock was first lieutenant to
Amie Kingston, who was managing the
show, as well as being an exhibitor.
Lieut. Gilbert Sutherland Gordon.
R.A.N., and his bride are making theii
home in Victoria, and that will be a
change of climate for Mrs. Gordon, till
recently Isabel Mackenzie, of Stonehenge
station, Stonehenge. A veil embroid-
ered with Scotch thistles, a frock of mag-
nolia satin and a string of pearls wee
highlights of the bridal array. St-
Stephen’s, Sydney, blessed the vows
Bride's parents are Lieut.-Col. and Mrs.
A. J. Mackenzie. Lieut. Gordon (o;
Malmsbury, Vic.) has returned after three
and a half years’ service at sea. It was
in the ship of which he was first lieutenant
that many of the scenes of Noel Coward's
“In Which We Serve” were shot. The ship,
a new one, was on her trial runs.
One of the successes of last week was
the Women Writers’ lunch to Mrs. Ely
Palmer, wife of the U.S. Consul-General.
This was at the Chelsea Club, and there
was a great roll-up of members desiring
to honor America in the person of the
guest of honor. Mrs. Palmer, small and
dainty as a Dresden-china figure, has pub-
lished one book and is writing another—
a journal on how a Consul’s wife can
housekeep and be pleasantly at ease in
whatever land her husband is called to.
Mrs. Palmer ought to know. Her hus-
band has served his nation in many coun-
tries, including the Middle East. The
guest was reminded of her home in Cali-
fornia by the table decorations (the work
of Etta Cowan) of mandarins on their
green sprays. The president’s speech was
of America ; Mrs. Florence Taylor’s ol
the Australian-American movement.
China’s Day is dated for July 30. This
collecting campaign for our intrepid
ally has Mrs. H. K. Mowll, wife of the
archbishop, as head of the women’s com-
mittee. Mrs. Hubert Fairfax (consistent
friend of the Chinese cause) is the vice-
president, the secretary is Mrs. Loquet
and the treasurer Mrs. W. H. Oong.
The big money of the day will be made
by the fair in Martin-place, and color will
be brought to this city thoroughfare by
a Chinese pageant. A sale of buttons is
expected to bring in a sizable sum. All
moneys will be sent to the wife of Gen-
eralissimo Chiang Kai-shek.
The Lunch-time Music Club’s 1943-
1944 season will commence on July 19,
but last Monday the committee offered
the members an extra concert with a slice
of birthday cake. This, of course, was
served at lunch, which was at the usual
12.30.
Archbishop Gilroy will be present at
Sydney Town Hall tonight, when the
Grail Choir, under the direction of Rev.
W. Dirou, M.S.C.i will contribute a pro-
gramme ranging from the polyphony of
Palestrina and Byrd to simple folk tunes,
and 80 members of the movement will
present speaking choruses. The Arrows
Club at 440 Edgecliff-road, which is trie
war effort of the Grail movement, will
benefit. . „ , , ■
Sydney was not musically starved last
week. A piano recital by Ignaz Fried-
man gave listeners Chopin, Beethoven
and Bach-Busoni. Another Conserva-
torium highlight was violinist Thomas
Matthews’s Delius recital, with Richard
Farrell at the piano. On Saturday night
a full to overflow Town Hall attended
the Sydney Symphony Orchestra concert.
Pianist Kathleen Dempsey was the much-
applauded soloist in the Schumann con-
certo.
Latest news of Sydney soprano Joan
Hammond is that she has been singing
in Eire. She made a great hit in Dublin,
where she packed the Gaiety Theatre,
singing in “Tannhauser, La Boheme
and other operas.


"V |
BY APPOINTMENT.
ẁ
ẃ
THE GRAMOPHONE COY. LTD. (Inc. in England) , HOMEBUSH. N.S.W.
R2BA/43
IN THE COUNTRY'S SERVICE
X
trvvA Jrf t
0
zssm
mm
,Jjp
AT YOUR-SERVICE
Vv.\
5sV
■SN
£
VS
X
:
The major proportion of all Masonite produc-
tion to-day goes to war uses. And so it will
remain until the war is won. When that time
comes, there’ll be all the Masonite you need for
building and re-modelling your post-war home.
Until then . . . war needs must come first.
/
MA44-4S
MASONITE PRESDWOOD...TEMPERED PRESDWOOD...TEMPRTILE... QUARTRBOARD DE LUXE
Manufactured by MASONITE CORPORATION (AUST.) LTD. from wood fibre.
Distributors: THE COLONIAL SUGAR REFINING CO. LTD.
(Building Materials Division)
SYDNEY . . . MELBOURNE . . . BRISBANE . . . ADELAIDE . . . PERTH
INVEST YOUR SAVINGS IN WAR BONDS FOR POST-WAR USE
SMOKE-OH!
< t A W’FUL property, about 14 acs. gdn.,
close tram, gentleman’s res.”
—Adelaide “ Advertiser.”
Truth in advertising.
4*
“I am desperate. If your father does not
allow me to visit you 1 shall take my own life
—with this rope.”— Story.
Determined to keep hanging around.
•F 4* “F *F
“She liked both Frank and Ernest but' saw
their faults. Frank was inclined to be a phi-
landerer and Ernest was sly and secretive.”
—Short story.
The lady was by Fortune’s prank
Faced with this problem sternest:
Ernest, it seems, was far from frank,
And Frank was not quite earnest.
H. M.
-i* -v
“Could you tell me how to make my ears
look smaller?” — Inquirer in woman’s paper.
Yes, dear; lop them.
“One of his photographs was taken full face
and the other half-full.”— “Daily Mirror.”
His wife says that the one taken half-
full is the best likeness.
•J*
“The chair on which she sat was supported
by three stout, ungainly lags.”— “Sun.”
The fourth convict had evidently
escaped.
•J*
“Letters produced in court showed that he
frequently referred to the co-re. as his ‘dear
little pet lamb.’ ” — Divorce item.
That made him feel sheepish.
“A fox killed in Shopshire recently had a
brush 4ft. lOin. in length.”— “World’s News.”
That be hanged for a tail.
Proof.
“Are you a genius?”— “Sunday Sun’’’ heading.
I modestly make the claim. Yesterday,
all day, I refrained from criticising the
Government; didn’t ask anyone how long
he thought the war would last; didn’t
mention rationing. Further, I found a
cafe where there was sugar on the table,
a spoon in the saucer and no chips in
the cup. I bought a packet of cigarettes
and borrowed a match. And I sat all
the way home in the peak-hour tram and
didn’t even blush at the things the women
shoppers said about me.
Looby.
“According to scientists, there is no such
thing as absolute silence.”—“ World’s News.”
Even when the wife’s not talking she's
clicking her tongue in disgust.
4 4* + f
“The bishop then sank the litany.”
—Richmond “Express.”
In the see?
T* *l*
“Skip waved his eyes with the back of his
hand.”— Women’s paper story.
What! With the back of his hand?
•b
“Mr. Bacon had the reputation of being a
very foul-mouthed and evil-tempered person.”
—Short story.
A proper hog, in short.
•b *b *b
An inquirer wishes to know whether
hara-kiri can be classified as a navel
action.
*b •& *b *b
“Although a persistent lawbreaker, this
woman repeatedly called the police.”— “Sun.”
But what did she call them?
Contemplation.
If all things viewed in their entirety
Be really nothing, it appears to me
That nought regarded as an entity
Must then be all things—but it cannot be.
For something over nothing never may
Be less than half, as Plato used to say.
But, whether this be still the case today,
One thing is sure : I’ve got a date with
Fay !
T. W. NATHAN.
Circus Memories.
“Wirth’s Circus is travelling from Melbourne
to Sydney drawn by elephants.”
1 did the same trip with the Blinko
Circus back in ’93. And what a trip it
was! A bitter feud developed between
me and Shadow, the Thin Man. When-
ever he had the horrors he’d sool the
dingbats on to my lions, which in conse-
quence got nervy and irritable. In re-
venge I dropped tonic tablets into his
Jitter Juice. By the time we got to Albury
he went 23 stone.
One day he caught me redhanded. That
night I found all my lions with their
throats cut. Jobless and infuriated, I de-
vised a terrific reprisal. I found Shadow
in a drunken stupor in his tent, and with
the aid of Mimi, the baby elephant, I
dragged him to and locked him in an
empty lion cage with several bottles of
Jitter Juice and Aunty’s Glory. Waking
with a hangover, Shadow started mixing
revivers. When the dingbats attacked him
he tore into them, but, biting through his
own jugular vein, he perished.
I terminated my circus career with a
disappearing trick.
NAT.
Bombastic.
“Nazis say R.A.F. making war ‘absurd.’ ”
—“Daily Telegraph.’’’
When crash of h.e. bombs is heard
In towns the R.A.F. is strafing,
Adolf contends it is “absurd ” —
Then why is not the Fiihrer laughing?
P. O. M. C.
It Has to Come.
“The case of Master Cole, the 10-year-old
Kandos (N.S.W.) schoolboy who was threatened
with prosecution by the Transport and W. 0.1.
Departments for running messages for neigh-
bors, has been settled by representations made
to Mr. Dedman by Mr. Spooner.”
r, , x . r?i . ».
Report from the Morning Flute .-
“Yesterday Beryl Wubble (31), of Bal-
main, was charged before a Sydney Court
with breaches of the National Security
Regulations and violation of the Post
and Telegraph Act, Commonwealth Arbi-
tration Act, Local Government Act and
By-laws, Secret Commissions Act and
Road Transport Act.
“Giving evidence for the prosecution,
Sergeant Snooper, of the Commonwealth
Bureaucratic Police, said that he and two
constables had had defendant under close
surveillance for several days. On Tues-
day last she was riding her dinky along
the pavement in defiance of local-gov-
ernment by-laws. Defendant was then
seen to offer a ‘lift’ to Willie Pooge (21),
who lives two doors away. She trans-
ported him twice to the top of the street
and back. Later she was seen to accept
a piece of liquorice from her passenger.
The Road Transport authorities take a
very grave view of this breach of the Act,
in that an unlicensed, unregistered
vehicle was operated in competition with
the department’s vehicles. In effect, the
defendant plied for hire and solicited a
paying passenger. What made the case
more heinous was that no attempt had
been made to have the vehicle covered
under the Compulsory Third Party (In-
surance) Act.
“The following day defendant was seen
to leave her front gate and walk across
the street. Her mother claimed that she
had only toddled across, but he (witness)
firm in his conviction that she had
walked. She had then entered a house
opposite, carrying a note. Later she was
seen t leave the hoU se suck j ng a boj]ed
, „ W 1 . . ,r ° , , ,
lolly. When interrogated defendant ad-
mitted having been given the lolly for de-
livering the b no te. which was f ’ om her
mot her. This constituted a breach of
tbe newly-promulgated regulations which
make R an offence for anyone to deliver
a missive by hand where there is a
post office within five miles of either
receiver or sender. The postal authorities
regard this violation seriously, as it strikes
a t the very heart of the primary func-
tion of the post office, that of a taxing
machine.
“A further charge was that defendant
was found to be in possession of a comes-
tible—to wit, a boiled lolly—which was
not made in accordance with the shape
anc j color allowed by the Department of
w.O. of I. The magistrate, commenting
that the case was se rious and involved
important decisions, adjourned it for a
week to a u ow the 73 Crown witnesses to
be assembled.”
From the next day’s “Morning Flute” :
“Six thousand coalminers from 14
N.S.W. pits ceased work yesterday in
sympathy with the Postal Employees’,
Road Transport and other unions affected
by what is now known as the Wubble
Case. Mass meetings at the pitheads
unanimously condemned Beryl Wubble
as a ‘Fascist scab.’ It is expected that,
following fiery speeches by union leaders,
the strike will spread to Sydney wharf-
laborers, ironworkers, sheet-metal workers
and engineers.”
Bo.


THE OTHER FELLOW'S MIND
The contributor placed first is paid
4 3d. per line; all others per line.
“In the Army Now”—and After?
Things are quiet here up north.
Inevitably, boredom creeps in, and no
amount of training, no amount of sport
or local leave, can really stop it.
Ninety per cent, of this unit have no
trade. And it’s a technical unit, mind
you, though composed of farm-hands,
laborers, carters, shop assistants, junior
clerks, messengers and so on. Not more
than one in every ten could earn enough
to eat by mending or manufacturing an
article.
Ninety-five per cent, of this unit know
absolutely nothing of politics. For the
Victorian elections many of them had
postal ballot-papers sent to them for com-
pletion, and they came to me, without
exception, to find out what they were
supposed to do with it, and what were
they voting for, anyway, and did it matter
if they didn’t fill it in? That there is any
difference between the Senate and the
Legislative Council has never occurred to
them, mainly because they’ve never heard
of either.
International affairs and relations are
to this mob a closed book. What or
whom or why we are fighting they have
culled from the twopenny press, and so
have a vague and nebulous idea about
goodies and baddies, and we’re the
goodies, cowboy pants and all, and going
to make everybody free or something.
Music, poetry and literature belong to
another world altogether: they are for
the reserved-occupation chaps.
But these same soldiers are ideal
ground for sowing the seeds of educa-
tion. These men are thought-starved ;
they can, and do, go for weeks on end
without a single real thought flashing
through their minds. Get them together
and talk to them about the world they
live in, about politics or history or
current affairs —I’ve even given them a
lecture on Romantic Poetry —and they
lap it all up avidly and look for more.
The A.B.C. String Quartet gave a
camp concert. Men came because
(hey thought it was a swing show,
but at the end of the recital the
quartet took six or seven encores, and
even then withdrew amid a roar for
“more.” Lectures by A.E.S. instructors
who visit the unit regularly are discussed
for days later in heated groups of three
and four. This week my section staged a
debate among themselves, “That war aims
should be more precisely defined,” and
six tyro speakers did a good job,
gained a lot of confidence and gave
themselves and their audience a lot to
think about. Next week they’re on the
Parliamentary Houses in Australia. The
A.E.S. encourages and helps us in this
type of training; teaching men to think.
Now is the time for a concerted army
drive in education and vocational train-
ing. It has been proved that the men
want it and can assimilate it. The train-
ing will kill the worst canker of all
armies boredom make the men
happier and fit them for a place in the
post-war world that is going to need men
who can mend or make. They are learn-
ing very little in the army that will make
them skilled citizens, so give them
general education and teach them a trade
now. The A.E.S. has the machinery
already there and fit for extension. To
train the men to win peace is only half
the job. To train them to enjoy it is the
other half. — Pip (A.1.F.).
Australian Education
It is hardly necessary for “the six State
Education Ministers or any of the N.S.W.
Teachers’ Federation bosses” to reply to
Professor Murdoch’s indictment of our
various education systems (B. 16 /6 / ’43).
The Bulletin itself makes a very effec-
tive reply on page 7 of the same issue in
“Out of the Jungle.” Not bad examples
of Australian education, Lieutenant-
Colonel Fleay and his men.
Our visitor, Brockington, K.C., also
made an effective reply a little while ago
when he said: “Australians set them-
selves and achieve feats never before
attempted by a nation of seven millions.”
The “Times,” not hitherto noted for ex-
travagant praise of the Dominions, in a
recent editorial said: “Australians have
the right to feel inordinately proud of
their production achievements” (or words
to that effect).
Mr. Brockington had opportunities of
observation and comparison open to few
Australians. We can accept his opinion
as authoritative. Everyone knows that
our war effort on the production side has
been achieved by improvisation and in-
dividual ingenuity. That is a proof that
our education systems, with all their
faults, do not stifle individuality.
Talk to our young soldiers returned
from overseas, and you will not need to
be ashamed. If all reports are true, they
got on well with the native population
wherever they went, and that’s another
indication that, if our education system
is not giving them as much as it should,
at least it is not teaching them wrongly.
Thank God the kindergarten system
touches a mere handful —I’d like to
abolish kindergartens altogether. Let the
kiddies run free in God’s good sunshine,
given so abundantly to Australia, until
they are six and then let them start school
in earnest.
The most significant and hopeful de-
velopment in Australian education is
always overlooked by our detractors. The
area school, well established in Tasmania
and S.A., where it is becoming increas-
ingly popular as the principle is being
extended and better known, is worth
many kindergartens. In S.A. the Cen-
tral, Technical, High, Agricultural High
and higher primary schools have done
good work, but the tendency has been to
encourage rural children to go to the city
to take up white-collar or clerical jobs.
“The award ses 'fingerbowls.' see!”
The area school brings a broader, higher
education to the rural districts.
Professor Murdoch does not say what
kind of education he would substitute.
Probably he doesn’t know. It is so much
easier to criticise than construct.
I’m sick to death of hearing our coun-
try decried. Let’s take a little healthy
pride in ourselves for a change. We’ve
got a jolly good foundation, and isn’t
it a bit hard on the builders of the past
to condemn so utterly the result of their
labors? — Fodgie (S.A.).
The Australian Outlook
“Hamer” has missed the point (B.
23/6/’43). The fact is that, while the
“Antipodean” writers of 50 years ago were
100 p.c. Australian, the output of today’s
writers is not 2\ p.c. Australian. How
many of the short stories appearing in
the daily press have any Australian
flavor? How many writers have used, as
J. H. M. Abbott has, for instance, inci-
dents of Australian history to base good
stories on? The authors run in a torrent
to criminal ideas or snappy little stunts
that plead originality by unexpected
endings.
Look overseas at Uncle Sam’s ideas on
the matter. Pick up any copy of his
greatest national paper, the “Saturday
Evening Post,” and what policy do you
find at work? About 50 p.c. of the
stories in every issue are connected with
old American episodes or American
country life and the other 50 p.c. are
allocated to modern-day yarns. The
“Post” knows that the stories of the his-
torical America keep the common heart
stirring to Old Glory, and it knows that
they keep America American.
To come back to Australia. If it
wasn’t for The Bulletin, where would
you get a decent Australian story today?
There, in short, is plain evidence of the
pass to which we have come.
The idea that city as well as country
children should participate in any literary
competitions that The Bulletin might
care to introduce after the war is a
good one, provided the city child’s writ-
ings were based on some facts of national
worth. I myself believe that, aided by
literary competitions, some of Australia’s
finest, sweetest writers of the future
would arise out there in the Far West
where there are next to no opportunities,
no luxuries of picture shows or sundae
shops, etc. —nothing but stark Australian-
ism.—David Ash way (N.S.W.).
Jews in the Kimberleys
“W.C.C.” (B. 16/6/’43) thinks the idea
that the Jews could form a successful
colony in the Kimberleys is almost laugh-
able. Why? In Palestine not so long
ago I saw hundreds of refugee European
Jews reclaiming places as tough as, if not
tougher than, any to be found in the
Kimberleys.
In the marshy Emek and Jordan
Valleys, for instance, where the heat is
hell-hot and the air miasmic and notori-
ously malarious, where skulking Bedouin
tribesmen still regard the unwary as
Allah-sent targets for their illicit rifles,
the despised Jew has made the wilder-
ness to blossom as the rose.
The contention that the Jews are not
an agricultural people is only true in
that, expropriated in ancient times from
their own land, and denied access to
alien soil in their subsequent wanderings,
they have had perforce to become urban-
ised. But who but an agricultural people
could have given us a scripture so full
of references to corn and wine and oil
and flocks? Where but in an agricultural
setting could the immortal idyll of Ruth
have been framed? —WX5918 (Q.).
Put Communism on Trial
If we except the experiment in Para-
guay, it seems the tenets of Communism
have not been tried. Australia offers a
favorable opportunity. I would suggest
that the Northern Territory from Darwin
to Oodnadatta be declared a State, to be
inhabited for the most part by Communists.
Wave Hill cattle station, owned by
Vesteys, and Victoria River Downs,
owned by Bovril Estates, should be
allotted to W.A., and Lake Nash, Ran-
kine River and similar stations on the
eastern side absorbed by Queensland;
but Paddy’s Lagoon, Mataranka, Tip-
perary, Koolpinya and similar properties
in North Australia, held on yearly
licenses, could be resumed and compen-
sated for. The climate is partly sub-
tropical and particularly healthy ; cattle,
sheep, horses, swine and buffalo do well.
Minerals include gold, silver-lead, copper,
mica and many others, such as those used
for tempering steel.
Such a State would have Communists
flocking to it from all parts of the world ;
it would be a buffer between Australia
and Japan, would be a military asset, and
would deplete our industrial unions of
their best-advertised organisers.
Home Rule should be extended to the
new State ; it would be under the super-
vision of the Governor-General, be pro-
tected by our Defence Department, and
would have the protection of Russia.
Then let’s see how they get on. — Myles
A. Kelly (N.S.W.).
Melbourne Housing
The Lud Mayor’s anti-litter campaign
in Melbourne culminated in a man being
charged with dropping a tram ticket in
Bourke-street. When he was accosted
by a council inspector the offender re-
marked that that official could be better
employed than standing on street corners.
On the same day the Housing Commis-
sion issued a report on the appalling
housing conditions in the city over which
the Lud Mayor exercises some sort of
jurisdiction.
Said one inspector: “Cooking and
washing facilities are crude and
totally inadequate, housing conditions
are beyond description, and whole
families of all ages are living to-
gether in one room.” In Port Mel-
bourne a single-fronted house has 31
tenants, including a deaf and dumb
couple with four children who pay 355.
for single-room accommodation, a mother
with four children who pays the same
for a small room and part of a passage,
and a man and wife and three children
who pay £3 for two rooms, kitchenette
and bathroom “of sorts.” In Richmond
a house of 13 rooms is rented by one
woman for 355., who sublets her castle
to nine different groups of people for
£8 10s. a week. Other places are said to
“defy description.”
The Lud Mayor and Premier Dunstan
would say that, owing to Federal restric-
tions on building, the Housing Commis-
sion is unable to do anything to relieve
the position. But how much interest did
they or their predecessors take in the
situation in the days when there were no
restrictions? Compared with the way the
problem was tackled in M.L. the footling
achievements of the Housing Commis-
sion scarcely touched the fringe of the
question. The mentality which can con-
cern itself with setting inspectors watch-
ing people to see that they don’t drop
tram tickets on the pavement when a large
proportion of the population is living
under conditions which would revolt a
head-hunter in New Guinea isn’t exactly
the sort to solve any civic problem.—
X. S. (Vic.).
Socialism
To all those who glibly advocate Social-
ism as an elixir to cure Australia’s ills
after the war I address but one question.
Do you want the present state of affairs
to continue? At the present time we are
getting a fair sample of a socialistic State.
The Government decides where we
work, what we can wear, the amount of
food we can consume and what we can
buy. Before long it may be deciding, in
the form of compulsory loans, what we
are to do with our surplus cash. All these
restrictions are, of course, necessary for
the duration of our national emergency.
However, if I am any judge of the
national temperament, 95 per cent, of the
Australian people are pining for the good
old days when a man was free to work
where he liked and use his wages as he
pleased. No, what Australia needs is a
true interpretation of the principles for
which its sons are fighting. A true inter-
pretation, administered by statesmen —
not political opportunists—of “govern-
ment of the people, by the people, for the
people.”— Peter Piper (N.S.W.),
Strikes and the Public
What redress has the public in regard
to strikes, the effect of which hits them
directly and completely? During the
bakers’ strike in Brisbane the effect on
small adult families was inconvenient but
not grave. On those with a child in
arms and young children of school age,
for a woman to have to go daily from
place to place trying, vainly at times, to
get any bread was deplorable and utterly
to be condemned. What redress have we?
To start baking—or any other job—at
7 a.m. instead of 5 a.m. may be more
comfortable, but does that justify any
section of workers throwing the rest of
the community into utter inconvenience
in an endeavor to gain an advantage for
themselves? We have Arbitration Courts.
Changes in any industry that make for
the welfare of the employee and through
that fact for greater efficiency and output
are wholly desirable. But merely to seek
to make jobs more comfortable when we
are at war is not to be countenanced.
Our troops do not wait for the most
comfortable hour to strike at the enemy
—but seek the most effective one against
him, be it day or night.— Olive M.
Green (Q.).
Rifle v. Pistol
We get news slowly where 1 am writ-
ing from, and I have just heard of the
dust a Sydney weekly paper has been
kicking up about delays in pistol manu-
facture and excessive cost of such manu-
facture. The paper implied very strongly
that pistols were desperately needed for
jungle fighting.
Give me a good Lee-Enfield and
you can have all the pistols. In close on
four years of soldiering, I have not heard
of one enemy soldier being killed or
wounded by pistol shot, but on the other
hand I have heard of pistols gone rusty
or with broken mainsprings, and fre-
quently cursed for their weight and in-
convenience on patrol.
A reasonable squeal, therefore, would
have been against manufacturing pistols
at all.—Soldier (A.1.F.).


browsed in HUNTER
STREET
%
r-
■M
7
*
■ •
fa
yyr
p
m 1
m
~
'
sii!
F=
S?U>
Hf
yf
i
«u
♦S
SB
I i.,il
►
&
ii '
i
?*V g
mt'M __
Si
V
mm
i
i
\VN
l\
<^=*-
■»*»-.
t
V
, ■■■*:•■■
■
**^6^
..
; - S';
US
'
■ S'
I
$
■if
ilillWK
aigiii«
PIWS
HI
VERNOft
"X 'w
HEN Sydney was still in its swaddling clothes; when
most of the streets were merely tracks through the
eucalypts .. . the “City Mutual” was founded. And just
as Sydney has grown from a placid and leisurely old town
into a busy, bustling metropolis, so the “City Mutual” has
developed from a modest office into a leading Australian
institution.
The whirligig of time brought many changes-—wars, depressions, financial
upsets —but through them all the “City Mutual” remained steadfast and four-
square, providing a friendly, mutual service to thousands of policyholders.
The Society looks back on a memorable past, and looks forward to a future
of continued prosperity and progress.
Careful management is reflected in the Society’s
figures ~ . and as a direct contribution to Aus-
tralia’s war effort, £850,000 was contributed to
war loans in 1942, and already £600,000 has been
placed this year in the 3rd Liberty Loan.
PURELY MUTUAL—PURELY AUSTRALIAN
Incorporated in Xeiv South
187 S.
Wales
Top Right-—J 853, cnr. Hunter
and Bligh Streets.
Top Left—lB73, same corner.
Centre—l 693, same corner.
Bottom—l 943, same corner.
THE
LIFE ASSURANCE SOCIETY LTD.
William Bennett General Manager.
Head Office: Corner of Hunter and Bligh Streets, Sydney
