

r
mm.
The Bulletin
“The Bulletin, 1 ’ VoL 64,—N0. 3283
Wednesday, January 13, 1943
Price 6cL
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney. N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.
Seppelts
THE PANTILES, TUNBRIDGE WELLS.
WHILE Britain boasts of many inland watering
places, few, if any, can vie with Tunbridge
Wells historically, that is, in a social sense, at least.
Throughout the seventeenth and eighteenth centuries,
as reference to the writers of that period will show,
it stood pre-eminent as a centre where leaders of
society gathered, not always in search of the benefits
for which its Chalybeate Springs were noted These
were accidentally discovered by a dissipated young
nobleman, Dudley, Lord North, in 1606. He cer-
tainly was restored to health by them ; thus their fame
was founded. These wells are situated at the entrance
to The Parade, or, as it was formerly called, The
Pantiles. Here fashion was wont to disport itself.
Today Tunbridge Wells is a highly-favoured residen-
tial centre, and, being only some 50 minutes’ train
journey from London, may be looked upon almost as
an outer suburb of the great metropolis. It has every
advantage of location, scenery and climate not the
least appealing. The surrounding country is replete
with interest, and visits are made to Penshurst Place,
the seat of the Sydney family; to Hever Castle,
closely connected with Henry VIII and the luckless
Anne Boleyn ; to Bridge Castle, the ancient home of
the Neville family ; to Baynham Abbey, with its pic-
turesque ruins ; and to Knowle, the property of Lord
Delaware, aos of the finest and most interesting
baronial mansions in England, being almost un-
changed either in style, decoration or furniture since
the reigns of James 1 and Charles I, with its vast
collection of art treasures. What became of these
during the “Blitz” days of the second world war,
when Kent was a great sufferer, will in due course
be made known. A distinguishing characteristic of
the town itself is The Pantiles, which still, as of yore,
provides the popular promenade, with its over-
hanging trees, its broad steps and the curious old-
fashioned shops under the fine colonnade supported by
massive columns. Tunbridge Wells has always stood
in high favour with visitors from Australia and New
Zealand.


* J •
Mi
This Book FREE to YOU!
STOTT’S CORRESPONDENCE COLLEGE.
100 Russell Street, Melbourne.
CUT HERE AND MAIL
Please send, without obligation, your New Free
Booklet explaining how to Write jor Profit, as
advertised in the Sydney “Bulletin.”
My Name
My Address
S.B. 143
The Red Page
DUBLIN AND THE BUSH.
Though both have that universality which
bases its art on the fundamental human
emotions and consequently is the most
cherished by humanity, James Joyce and
Henry Lawson have so little else obvi-
ously in common that it seems straining
criticism to relate one to the other. Yet
the selection from Ulysses which T. S.
Eliot has chosen for Introducing James
Joyce (Faber) reminds one that Joyce and
Lawson, opposites in art, and living at
opposite ends of the earth, once wrote
the same story and, each in his own way,
both made a masterpiece of it. The
funeral of Dignam in Ulysses is the same
story as Lawson’s “The Union Buries Its
Dead.”
The correspondence goes much deeper
than the obvious relationship in the fact
that both stories describe a funeral. Un-
derlying some differences in plot, there
is a striking identity of purpose: each
writer has set out to make as stark a
comment on death as he possibly could
and each, in an identical spirit of sardonic
realism, gives the picture of a man shoved
away into a hole in the earth and for-
gotten while life goes on unperturbed.
In neither case are intimate personal
relationships, which would modify by
sentiment or human tragedy the story’s
ironic detachment, allowed any promi-
nence. The man Lawson buries is an un-
known wanderer of the outback ; those
whose reactions to the burial of Dignam
are described in the extract from Ulysses
are his male friends —boon companions
and casual acquaintances. In neither
case, again, is this exclusion of intimate
relationships accidental. Justified perhaps
by the fact that time would modify per-
sonal anguish into the indifference or im-
personal awe of those who are merely
spectators at the funeral; and justified in
any case by the necessity of artistic selec-
tion to present any chosen image in its
full force, both Lawson and Joyce have
deliberately excluded those personal
emotions which would be irrelevant to
the point they wished to make.
The effect aimed at in each case is the
starkness of Greek tragedy. Death is
presented*as an affair of the gods, imper-
sonal, a doom; and, awed by the spec-
tacle, though indifferent to the fate of
the dead man except in so far as it is a
reminder of their own mortality, the
“mourners” return to life with a relief
which naturally expresses itself in a dive
for the nearest pub.
A device in the chapter from Ulysses
parallels Lawson’s use of the anonymity
of the corpse to stress the impersonality
and the solitariness of death. Nothing
is known of Lawson’s wanderer; he met
some men by a river, remarked that it
was a fine day, and the next day they
learned he had been drowned. Because
they found a General Laborers’ Union
ticket in his pocket, they went to his
funeral.
The procession numbered 15, 14 souls
following the broken shell of a soul. Per-
haps not one of the 14 possessed a soul any
more than the corpse did —but that doesn’t
matter.
Four or five of the funeral, who were
boarders at the pub, borrowed a trap
which the landlord Used to carry passengers
to and from the railway station. They
were strangers to us who were on foot,
and we to them. We were all strangers
to the corpse.
It’s not possible in Joyce’s novel for him
to depict this utter solitariness —Dignam
is followed to the grave by his friends —
but he achieves something of Lawson’s
macabre image of the loneliness of the
soul by making one of the “mourners” a
stranger. There is a man ip a mackin-
tosh, whom nobody knows:
Now who is that lanky-looking galoot
over there in the mackintosh? Now who is
he I’d like to know? Now, I’d give a
trifle to know who he is. Always someone
turns up you never dreamt of. A fellow
could live on his lonesome all his life.
Yes, he could. Still, he’d have to get some-
one to sod him after he died, though he
could dig his own grave. We all do.
And then, when the stranger has dis-
appeared, one is reminded of the drover
in Lawson’s story who nearly came to
the funeral but, the pub calling more
strongly, didn’t.
A horseman, who looked like a drover
just returned from a big trip, dropped into
our dusty wake and followed us a few
hundred yards, dragging his packhorse be-
hind him, but a friend made wild and
demonstrative signals from an hotel
verandah—hooking at the air in front with
his right hand and jobbing his left thumb
over his shoulder in the direction of the
bar—so the drover hauled off and didn’t
catch up to us any more. He was a
stranger to the entire show.
The drover is like a visitor from another
planet, dropping in for a moment on
human tragedy, at first mildly curious,
then quickly indifferent. If one were
searching for a symbolic meaning behind
the casual interlude, one could conceive
him as Lawson’s image of the spirit of
life; Life spares a glance for Death,
then goes on living, unconcerned. The
Ulysses stranger, a more mysterious
gentleman who might be Death dropping
in for a moment to look at his handi-
work, gives, by his disappearance the
same impression of the irrelevance of
Death to the living :
And tell us, Hynes said, do you
know that fellow in the, fellow was over
there in the
He looked around.
Mackintosh. Yes, I saw him, Mr.
Bloom said. Where is he now?
M’lntosh, Hynes said, scribbling. I
don’t know who he is. Is that his name?
He moved away, looking about him.
No, Mr. Bloom began, turning and
stopping. I say, Hynes!
Didn’t hear. What? Where has he dis-
appeared to? Not a sign. Well, of all
the. Has anybody here seen? Kay ee
double ell. Become invisible. Good Lord,
what became of him?
Hammering at the theme of life’s
fundamental indifference to death—the
unimportance to the mass of men of the
loss of any individual —the writers again
use the same device when they present
the reactions of people by the wayside to
the cortege as it passes. Even more de-
tached than the drover or Joyce’s mys-
terious stranger, the spectators pay a nod
to the funeral—remembering their own
mortality—then go about their affairs.
The moment the procession is out of
sight, Lawson’s drunken spectator, one
feels, will be much more interested in the
problem of picking up his hat again than
in the mysteries of the universe.
On the way to the cemetery we passed
three shearers sitting on the shady side of
a fence. One was drunk —very drunk. The
other two covered their right ears with their
hats, out of respect for the departed—
whoever he might have been —and one of
them kicked the drunk and muttered some-
thing to him.
He straightened himself up, stared, and
reached helplessly for his hat, which he
shoved half-off and then on again. Then he
made a great effort to pull himself together
and succeeded. He stood up, braced his
back against the fence, knocked off his hat,
and remorsefully placed his foot on it —to
keep it off his head till the funeral passed.
Some of Joyce’s spectators give the same
brief salute, others not even so much:
On the curbstone before Jimmy Geary
the sexton’s, an old tramp sat, grumbling,
emptying the dirt and stones out of his
huge dustbrown yawning boot. After life’s
journey.
Both writers again emphasise their
theme by pointing to human incongru-
ities, the persistence of human emotions,
even the most trivial, at high and solemn
moments. Lawson comes out with his
astonishing piece of venom against the
fat publican whom he paints as toadying
to the priest at the graveside by holding
his hat over him throughout the cere-
mony, sheltering him from the sun —a
powerful moment of invective which sug-
gests irresistibly that it wa% recalled from
personal experience. And Joyce has
Bloom’s absurd piece of soap—before
starting on the funeral Bloom had bought
a cake of soap and throughout the journey
in the carriage he is secretly itching to
shift it from his hip-pocket to some place
where it won’t obtrude on his person and
his reflections.
And both writers, to reinforce their
satirical aloofness, mock at the conven-
tional ceremonies and trappings of
mourning. “I have left out the wattle,”
says Lawson,
because it wasn’t there. I have neglected
to mention the heart-broken old mate, with
his grizzled head bowed and great pearly
drops streaming down his rugged cheeks.
He was absent —he was probably “out
back.” For similar reasons I have omitted
reference to the suspicious moisture in the
eyes of a bearded bush ruffian named Bill.
Bill failed to turn up, and the only moisture
was that which was induced by the heat.
I have left out the “sad Australian sunset,”
because the sun was not going down at the
time. The burial took place exactly at
midday.
Joyce’s satire is even more biting:
The carriage steered left for Finglas-road.
The stonecutter’s yard on the right. Last
lap. Crowded on the spit of land silent
shapes appeared, white, sorrowful, holding
out calm hands, knelt in grief, pointing.
Fragments of shapes, hewn. In white
silence: appealing. The best obtainable.
Thos. H. Dennany, monumental builder
and sculptor.
Passed.
So strikingly similar in the fundamentals
of their technique, and so identical in
their ultimate effect, these two stories are
no less strikingly different in all that is
not fundamental, setting and method. So
long as the author has genuine talent,
any literary theory can be made to work,
it has often been said on this page ; and
these stones are a good illustration of
the fact. What’s astonishing about
Lawson’s story is how much is left out;
how in such stark outline, with so few
details, with such a minimum of com-
ment, in such a plain, arid style, he has
been able to convey so much: a life’s
philosophy and a complete analysis of
the most profound mysteries of life and
death done in 2>\ pages in his collected
Prose Works. What’s astonishing about
Joyce’s story is how much is crammed
in ; how on a theme as essentially simple
as Lawson’s he has painted so broadly
and so richly, worked in so many details,
commented to the maximum, elaborated
his narrative with such complexities and
ingenuities of style ; and how these 34
pages of Ulysses, so intricate and so pro-
found, nevertheless present the main
theme so clearly and simply as to make
the extract no less a model of form, no
less inevitable and economical than Law-
son’s treatment of the same motif in a
tenth the space.
Curiously, it is Lawson who appears
the more “modern” of the two. That
bare, harsh style, that colloquial language,
that “toughness” of the characters, that
sketchiness of form —all might have de-
rived from Hemingway, instead of pre-
ceding him by many years. If it is
“modern” art to appear artless; to
achieve all effects casually and appar-
ently by accident; to create without
effort; to turn one’s back on the great
tradition of English prose, with all its
artifices of rhythm and diction in favor
of what looks like a slovenly naturalness,
Lawson in this story is as modern as a
writer could be. Nor, in this case, would
one quarrel with his moderness. The
story succeeds. It is unforgettable. That
is all that matters. And it succeeds be-
cause of its poverty, rather than in spite
of it. It is a stark theme and a stark
setting Lawson wishes to convey; and
nothing could suit his purpose better than
the stark manner he has adopted. Against
his style, as against the spectators, the
image of doom stands out in a clarity
all the more dramatic for the casualness
of both.
And yet exactly the same effect can
be achieved, Joyce demonstrates, by the
opposite method; by the piling of detail
upon detail, comment upon comment,
mass upon mass. Lawson’s only glances
aside as the procession moves to the
cemetery are at the drover and the drunk.
But the riders in Joyce’s carriage medi-
tate as they travel upon every possible
aspect of death. Bloom reads the notices
in the papers, and reflects:
Callan, , Coleman, Dignam, Fawcett,
Lowry, Naumann, Peake, what Peake is
that? is it the chap was in Crosbie and
Alleyne’s? no, Sexton, Urbright. Inked
characters fast fading on the frayed break-
ing paper. Thanks to Little Flower. Sadly
missed. To the inexpressible grief of his.
Aged 88 after a long and tedious illness.
Month’s mind Quinlan.
It is now a month since dear Henry fled
To his home up above in the sky
While his family weeps and mourns his loss
Hoping some day to meet him on high.
They talk about suicide. About the merits
of sudden death. About a child’s funeral.
About incurable diseases. About abba-
toirs. The technique of undertaking.
Murder. Hindu widows. Queen Victoria
and the Prince Consort. Religious cere-
monies. Rats, decomposition—nothing
is too grim for Joyce and every conceiv-
able facet of his subject—always with
the same ironic detachment —must be
considered. There is even space for such
an aside as this:
Besides how could you remember every-
body? Eyes, walk, voice. Well, the voice,
yes: gramophone. Have a gramophone in
every grave or keep it in the house. After
dinner on a Sunday. Put on poor old great-
grandfather Kraahraark! Hellohellohello-
amawfullyglad krark awfullygladaserragain
hellohello amarawfkopthstth. Remind you
of the voice like the photograph reminds
you of the face.
And so if it’s unmodem to show con-
scious technical effort in every sentence;
to achieve all effects by deliberate in-
genuity, writing no single word that
appears casual or accidental; to create
with infinite pains; to be aware every
moment of the great tradition of English
prose and to do one’s damndest to im-
prove on one’s predecessors, laboring
after rhythm, using a carefully selective
diction and never for one moment falling
into a lazy, colloquial naturalness, Joyce
is, in this extract from Ulysses, as tradi-
tional as any writer has ever been.
The present commentator is tempted
to think that Joyce wrote his books in
the wrong order. Finnegans Wake the
vast, incomprehensible experiment with
the dreaming mind (which is never likely
to survive except as a curiosity or, like
Burton’s almost equally unreadable
Anatomy of Melancholy, as a goldmine
for essayists) should have been not the
middle-aged man’s last book but the
young man’s first. Then, while he was
getting his breath, the strength and clarity
of the Dubliners short stories and Por-
trait of the Artist as a Young Man could
have appeared, to be followed, as a final
and impressive achievement, ,by the mas-
terly Ulysses blending the imaginative
daring of Finnegans Wake with the
strength and sanity of the stories.
Eliot’s selections from all these books
are excellent, but his introduction is dis-
appointing. As in his introductions to
A Little Book of Modern Verse and to
Marianne Moore’s poems and in nearly
all his writings on Ezra Pound, Eliot is
overcautious: inclined to approve what
is new because it is new, but unwilling
to say very much one way or the other
for fear of being caught out by posterity.
A critic of Eliot’s eminence has almost
a public duty to speak his mind plainly
and be hanged to posterity. All the more
so since literary critics of the eminence
of ex-Customs Minister Harrison (whose
hair stood on end) have not hesitated to
appraise Ulysses, to disapprove of it, and
to ban it.
SUNDRY SHOWS.
“F.S.”: Professor Bernard Heinze was
heard to say that the concert at
the tennis courts at Kooyong would
prove whether the people of Melbourne
were willing to pay for good music in
the open air. The people were, but there
was no contract with the Melbourne
climate, and it wouldn’t have been kept if
there had been. When it wasn’t sweltering
under its shelter the Melbourne Sym-
phony Orchestra was chasing sheets of
music in a duststorm which produced
very curious effects in the loudspeakers.
Added to which there were the flies, the
trains and the trams, not to mention
squadrons of aircraft. There was a good
performance of “Scheherazade.” But the
professor was tempting Providence or
something when he included Handel’s
“Water Music” in his programme. Shortly
after there was a threatening clap of
thunder, and Mile. Jeanne Gautier and the
Tschaikowsky violin concerto were rudely
washed out in the ensuing downpour.
The Philharmonics, the Melbourne
Symphony Orchestra, conductor Heinze
and soloists Thea Philips, Stanley Clark-
son, Joan Jones and William Herbert made
the umpteenth rendering of the “Messiah”
at the Town Hall, Melbourne, one of the
best on record. If there was any one
impression more pleasing than another
in an evening which seemed to compre-
hend the whole literature of music it was
of Mr. Herbert’s tenor sweetly soaring.
At the talkies;
“Next of Kin” (Sydney Victory) is outstand-
ing among recent talkies. It’s made under
direct supervision of the War Office. The battle
scenes in a big commando raid which is
smashed because of loose talking are vivid,
acting is first-rate, the plot well-knit. “Be-
tween Us Girls” (State) is a hilarious comedy
in which Diana Barrymore makes an impressive
debut as a comedienne; “Holiday Inn”
(Regent), a snappy hoofancroon, has wittily-
worded songs by Irving Berlin, the magic
of Fred Astaire’s feet, and Crosby. The
Korda brothers have rendered “The Jungle
Book” (Mayfair) into a gorgeous spectacle
in color; that highly intelligent native boy
Sabu makes the Kipling character live, and the
wild animal sequences are done with startling
realism. Plenty of virile sea action and splendid
photography in color offset the handicap of
a poorish plot in “Reaping the Wild Wind”
(Prince Edward). There is some good satire
at the expense of Nazi officials in “A Yank in
Dutch” (Lyceum), a light-hearted comedy of
a R.A.F. pilot hiding in a Dutch household.
“F.S.” sees “Reunion in Vienna”:
The spectacle of Edwin Styles as the Crown
Prince Rudolf emerging from a bedroom in a
shirt which shows beneath it the longest pair
of legs ever seen on any leading actor since
comedian Frith departed to his fathers is the
highlight of “Reunion in Vienna,” at the
Comedy, Melbourne. To call Robert Sher-
wood’s play subtle, as is done on the pro-
gramme, is a misuse of the language. If it is
subtle, so are the kick of an army mule and the
latest Mo revue at the Tivoli in Bourke-street.
One of the best performances is provided by
that sterling actor Frank Bradley as an old
gent, who shuffles about completely oblivious
of what is going on around him.
“Cauboy”: Pantomime raged at only
two points in Melbourne during the
Yuletide season, whereas in happier years
six or seven was the average. Tivoli’s
choice was “Mother Goose,” and “Babes
in the Wood” was the fancy of Wirths’
Circus. Both followed the traditional
prescription except that 90 p.c. of the
casts were damsels, and the dames,
demons, magicians were actors either over
military age or medically unfit, accord-
ing to an announcement by Mr. William
Parnell, of the Tivoli circuit. So, pre-
sumably, were the elephants’ hind legs.


"TRUTH IN ADVERTISING"
'THE SENIOR STORE"
d
Military Uniforms
Ready to wear, A.I.F. or A.M.F.
Uniforms. Slacks and Coat. Pre-
cision tailored and correct in every
detail. A range of graded sizes
awaits your selection. At Anthony
Horderns'.
Khaki Drills from 847-
All Wool Officers' Twist. Priced
from £l/9/6
Note The necessary authority
must be tendered when making
purchase.
Uniforms Coupon-free.
f
THE OFFICER
Officers’ Shoes
"Tree” Brand Super Grade
Shoes for Officers. Made in Zug
or Zebu on a good fitting last.
In full and half sizes and have
welted soles. Also stocked in
Brogues with extra stout soles
and whole golosh models. All
have extra wide welts. At
Anthony Horderns'. Price, 49/6
12 Coupons Required.
.>• r '■
■ .. I SB
m
mm
S 198
I i
H
■
-
Mi
■F
wlfil
Khaki Shorts
Indian Army Style,
2 slant side, pockets,
double waist strap
and buckle. Front
and back pleats.
Made from 9 oz.
English drill. Fast
government, dye. 30
to 46 inches waists.
Price 13/6
4 Coupons
7->J
r-.. n
i <■-
111
%
YOUR MONEY
FIGHT !
BUY
WAR SAVINGS
Officers’ Boots
In Tan, and Black and Tan grained
leather. Extra stout sewn and standard
screwed soles of solid leather. Good
fitting and full and half sizes. At Anthony
Horderns'. Price 27/6
12 Coupons Required
© Men’s Wear—Ground Flour.
George Street.
PENNY - A - PLANE
CARDS AND STAMPS
are obtainable at the
Savings Bank Counter,
Ground Floor, Pitt St.
Khaki Shirts
Khaki Drill Work Shirts in a British
material and made in our own work
room. Finished with collar attached
and breast pocket. Size 14F to 18.
inches neck. At Anthony Horderns'.
Price 11/6
5 Coupons Required
Dressing Gowns
All Wool Lightweight Worsted
Dressing Gowns in various
striped Blue,' Maroon, and Grey
tonings. Size 36-inch to 40-inch.
At Anthony Horderns'. Price,
each . £3/5/-
15 Coupons Required
ANTHONY HORDERNS'
FAMOUS LOW PRICES
PHONE: M 2401 (DAY AND NIGHT)
BOX 2712 C, G.P.0., SYDNEY
i!
9


PRAYERS for RAIN
By BRIAN JAMES.
THE night was hot, still, dust-filled.
You could taste dust in your mouth
and smell dust in your nostrils.
The Mechanics’ Institute was filled
to “its uttermost capacity,” as young
Friar reported in the “Western Argus”
a few days later. The platform at the end
of the hall was a half-moon of faces.
It was a public meeting called by the
mayor, and the response was full and
enthusiastic. The mayor, Mr. Edmund
Trist, was in the chair. He was the town’s
leading businessman, a pillar of his
church, keen, shrewd, kindly, best of
good fellows, everyone said. Mr. Trist
believed that the saints (the best of them
anyway) were jolly and good.
The half-moon contained the town’s
biggest and best. There were the clergy
and the near-clergy, the solidest of
matrons and the most virtuous of spin-
sters, the town’s Learning and Big Busi-
ness, the professions, three small
graziers and two big farmers. Though
prosperous enough to all seeming, these
graziers and farmers represented the
effects of drought, and were therefore
the main reason for the meeting. They
were in the front row with the clergy,
Big Business, the professions and some
of the more solid matrons; the farmers,
lay preachers, spinsters, small business-
men, a dentist and two schoolteachers
were in the second row. The hall itself
was filled with citizens, and with Alf
Pettit, the bore-sinker, and Pat Casey,
who defied classification. At the very
rear of the hall, also in a double row,
were the town’s hard cases, and with and
of these the dubious and the doubting.
Mr. Trist clasped his hands before him
and beamed: “Ladies and gentlemen,
or might I say brothers and sisters” —Pat
Casey wriggled forward and cupped a
very hairy ear in a very dirty hand —“I
have been requested to convene this meet-
ing by the town and by the countryside,
that we might invoke the Almighty to
send us once again the benison of rain.
And it seems to me in this representative
gathering, where creed and politics are
unknown”
“Mr. Chairman! Mr. Trist! Excuse
me!”
Mr. Trist beamed more virtuously than
ever at Pat Casey. “Yes, Mr. Casey,
we’ll certainly excuse you.”
The crowd tittered slightly.
“Is this meeting really non-sectarian
and non-political?”
“My good man, most decidedly.”
Pat sat down, and the hairy ear was
put back to the alert once more. Alf
Pettit guffawed, the publican declared
quite loudly that Pat was “a character,”
the profane element at the rear became
derisive, the citizens shaded between
grins and malice, the half-moon on the
stage registered shock and antagonism.
Only Mr. Trist remained bland and un-
moved. He explained that the inspiration
to call the meeting was his, and was
shared with him by the town’s most
worthy citizens ; that the time had come
to ask God to end the worst drought any
of them had ever known
“Not as good—l mean as bad —as the
”02 drought,” called Alf Pettit. Alf had
done well by his well-sinking during the
’O2 drought.
“Perhaps not, perhaps not, that is,”
Mr. Trist continued. “But I got into touch
with every clergyman, every important
citizen”
Pat’s air was that of the seeker after
knowledge. “Did y’ write to Father
Moran?”
“I did, and he didn’t answer. Still,
we are all moved by the faith that He
will send the rain if we in all humility
send up our petition to Him.”
THE Reverend Dalrymple-Betts pro-
posed the motion: that a meeting be
held on the town reserve on the follow-
ing Sunday, prayers for rain to be there
and then offered. He spoke feel-
ingly for an hour. He cited cases of
such public prayers being answered
almost immediately by copious down-
pours, and altogether gave the impression
that drought-breaking was quite a simple
affair.
“Excuse me!” Pat Casey was on his
feet again, “Might I ask if the speaker
really believes that prayers can break the
drought?”
Pat was informed that there was no
doubt as to the efficacy of faith and
prayer.
“It’s sort of criminal then,” said Pat,
“that these prayers weren’t arranged six
months ago, before the crops wilted and
the stock died!”
It was subtly intimated to Pat that
his ignorance of God’s ways was shock-
ing, but a sleek young gentleman at the
rear improved the occasion by an
altogether-too-polite query concerning
the Sahara.
“Sahara?” puzzled the Reverend Dal-
rymple-Betts. “Sahara?”
“Yes,” said the sleek young man. “Do
they ever pray for rain there?”
That it was not God’s will to send rain
to such places, and consequently no one
was foolish enough to ask for it in such
places, was the reply, not patiently
given.
“But how do we know, then, that here
and now” Mr. Trist took a hand
against the sleek young man and brought
the meeting to order.
The Reverend Potts seconded the
motion in a speech that lasted twenty-
five minutes. There seemed no good
reason for its not lasting as many days,
but for the desire of Alf Pettit to enter
the field of theology. He wanted to know
“how if the good Gawd had no desire
to send rain just then, and if He had some
good reason for it, what would He do
about the prayers, seeing as if He was
so disinclined, whereas as I just said”
Here Alf became bankrupt of conjunc-
tions.
The publican roared good-humoredly.
“You don’t want rain, Alf, while you’re
making a fortune out of your boring
plant!”
Alf glared wildly and muttered “foul
language,” so those nearest declared. The
elder Miss Carter, in the front row of the
half-moon, said “it was horrid, and that
man Casey, and all those, too, and that
hotelkeeper and the rest of them.” And
the younger Miss Carter, in the rear row,
said that the sectarian issue might have
been kept out, and that that Pettit fellow
was a public disgrace, and that Casey
man was no real Christian and he never
went to church. The Reverend Peter
Dobbie nodded in quite ignorant agree-
ment with them, and went on rehearsing
the big points of his speech.
Mr. Trist, quite unperturbed, called for
proper hearing and serious purpose. He
restored good humor by his well-timed
jest that, as a good teetotaller, it was
water he craved—he drank a sip from
his tumbler—and it seemed that soon
there would be only beer left to drink.
The “hear, hear” at the back was lost in
the applause.
The Reverend Dobbie spoke at length.
He was good, and dry. Even Alf Pettit
ignored him.
Mr. Joshua Bisley’s turn came at last.
Mr. J.B. was a lay preacher. The mob at
the back of the hall chuckled and re-
called Joshua’s weightiest similes. The
publican repeated a portion of a memor-
able sermon preached long since by Mr.
Bisley; “The world is round. Yes—the
world is round [two loud smacks of the
lips]. The world is round —as round . . .
as round... as a horse’s head.” The mob
was delighted and asked for more, and
the publican obliged: “What will the
world do, aye, aye, alas! what will
the world do when I am gone?” Mr.
Bisley oid not better those past triumphs.
Mr. Ben Hopper, preacher and car-
penter, spoke to the motion, and managed
to drag in his best sermon, the one on
the Deluge. The sleek young man settled
back, and reckoned he' could listen all
night. Mr. Hopper described, rather
irrelevantly, the sending forth of the dove
from the Ark. “Was it the little sparrow
they sent out? No, it was not the little
sparrow that sits on your housetop and
eats up your wheat crop. Was it the
crow? No, it was not the crow that eats
up the rotting carcass or picks out the
eyes of the helpless lamb.” In like man-
ner, it was not a magpie, a lark, a jack-
daw, a cuckoo, a finch, a canary, a
domestic fowl, a parrot, an eagle, a
chicken-hawk or an emu. “No,” Mr.
Hopper boomed, “it was none of these.
It was a little dove. Ah, would to God
I could make you all as innocent and
pure as that little dove was! ”
Mr. Tooth, the solicitor, moved the
vote of thanks “to our worthy mayor,”
and the headmaster seconded. He
was consciously poetic in a suppressed
sort of way, and mentioned that the
parched lips of the earth could drink the
very ocean dry.
The Reverend Seymour Biggenden then
supported the motion, and pronounced
his confidence in the prayers next Sun-
day, so much so, he said, that he cer-
tainly would take his umbrella. “Why
, . ,
not a boat? ’ came almost m a chorus
from the back of the hall.
OUT the meeting in the reserve was
D never held. On Saturday night a
storm broke ; “a regular gully-raker,” as
Mr. Hopper put it. It rained all night
and all Sunday and all Monday, a down-
pour from leaden low skies. The river
came down a banker; then broke its
banks and flooded all the lowlands,
Fences, fowls, houses, haystacks, bony
cattle and starved sheep went on the
crests of yellow waves. It was an old-
man flood.
People rejoiced at first at the breaking
of the drought, and then saddened at the
destruction. Alf Pettit gloomed in the
back parlor of the Royal, and said he
was “rooned.” Quite unreasonably he
blamed “that prayin’ committee” for the
very certain slump in boring. In a fuddled
way he darkly hinted at the legal possi-
bilities of “damages agin them.” Other
people, too, were ruined in good earnest,
but Casey, who couldn’t be ruined, no
matter what happened, kept on wondering
if the prayers they didn’t say did it at
all, at all, and what sort of rain they
would have got if the prayers they in-
tended saying had been said, also if
the Reverend Seymour Biggenden had
found an umbrella sufficient. The head-
master watched the yellow water with
scholarly interest, and remarked to his
wife that it was “something like Venice.”
The publican did a good trade out of it,
and agreed with almost everyone. The
sleek young man thought that the Sahara
should be given a trial after all. He
wondered, too, if prayers could have
stopped the rain when it started to do as
much damage as the drought had done.
The finer theological issues will never
be settled, especially as these issues were
further clouded by the discovery that
Father Moran had prayed for rain
the Sunday before the public meeting.
Only Mr. Trist remained unp’erturbed.
Serene and virtuous, his business no whit
affected, he gleamed more smugly than
ever.
“Good Night , M acPherson"
By NANCY CATO.
I THINK my great-aunt Janet must
have had a soft spot in her heart for
me because my second name was called
after her. Anyway, she left me her
moonstone bracelet and a pair of hideous
pink vases when she died; and she
hadn’t much to leave.
It was always a bit of an adventure to
me when we went down to see her for
the day. Mother and I would go in the
tram, and when we arrived at the sleepy
country station there was Aunt Janet
waiting just outside tne picket fence, sit-
ting very straight in the trap, with the
hood up and a tall whip standing in the
socket beside her. She was always
dressed in black, even on the hottest day,
and I never saw her wear any hat except
the same small black bonnet perched
high on her white hair.
Mother was scared of horses, and there
was always some trouble in getting her
into the trap. While she was climbing
nervously and ponderously on board
Barney would start to move off.
“Hauld still, Barney, ye auld fule!”
Aunt Janet would say, and pull hard on
the reins with her strong old hands. Then
Barney would back about ten feet and
leave us standing in the road. I think he
knew Mother was scared, and did it on
purpose. At last we’d get Mother aboard,
with me pushing from behind, and when
I’d jumped up Aunt Janet would tuck a
thin checked rug round our knees and
we’d set off.
That three-mile drive always passed in
a sort of happy dream for me with the
muffled music of Barney’s hooves on the
dusty road, the rhythmical movement of
his shining chestnut rump just ahead of
us, and the pleasant smell of horse-sweat
and leather. On one of these drives the
peace was shattered by a rumble of
approaching thunder, and when a crash
sounded close overhead it was too much
for Barney. He gave a sudden stiff jump
forward, and tried to break into a gallop.
Aunt Janet just held tight to the reins
and didn’t say anything, but Mother
started to scream and wanted to jump out.
“Sit still, Mary, ye dom’d fule!” cried
Aunt Janet. “He’ll tire o’ this in a
meenut.” She held on grimly until the
thunder had passed and Barney quiet-
ened down, though still rather nervous
and jumpy. After that my Mother would
never set off to visit Aunt Janet without
first studying the weather map and scan-
ning the sky for possible thunderstorms.
AUNT Janet’s was a low weatherboard
house, with a wide verandah all round,
and the rooms were so cool and dim that
it seemed the sunlight could never have
entered there. In the front parlor was an
old clock with a slow, quiet tick that
seemed an integral part of the house. On
each side of the clock was a large pink
shell, and beyond each shell a faded
photograph in a shell-trimmed frame,
and beyond the photographs, at each end
of the mantelpiece, an identical vase with
lustres hanging from it. Each wall of the
room was arranged in the same exact sym-
metry.
After lunch Aunt Janet would get out
her rimless spectacles and an album of
old photographs, and she and Mother
would sit and go over them, telling the
same stories about dead uncles and aunts
that they told on every visit. I was
allowed to sit in Uncle Jock’s rocking
chair and watch them. I had seen Uncle
Jock only a few times, as he didn’t
come home to lunch, and we were usually
gone when he arrived home at night. He
was a little man with a big njoustache
and a nervous, apologetic air when talk-
ing to Aunt Janet. Once when he came
home early he took me out with him to
harness up Barney. Outside he seemed
quite different, jolly and hearty, and he
slapped me playfully and asked how I
liked school.
It wasn’t until many years later, when
I had left school, that Mother told me
she thought Aunt Janet must have mar-
ried Uncle Jock MacPherson for his good
Scots name, as it was hard to tell what
else she had seen in him. Then she told
me that Aunt Janet had been a great
beauty when she was a girl. She had been
engaged twice before she met Uncle Jock ;
but apparently her sharp Scots tongue was
too much for her suitors, and the engage-
ments were broken off. It was difficult
to imagine Aunt Janet as a wilful young
beauty. She was nearly eighty now, and,
though her cheeks were still as pink as a
young girl’s, her skin was so closely and
finely wrinkled that it looked like tissue-
paper which has been crumpled and half
smoothed out again.
Mother used to go and stay with Aunt
Janet before she was married, and she
told me that every night at precisely
9.30 Aunt Janet would stand up, wind
the clock and say “Time the hoose
was abed.” Then she’d pick up
the solitary lamp from the table and,
holding out her other hand to her hus-
band, say “Good nicht, MacPher-r-rson.”
After solemnly shaking hands she would
precede him to the high double-bed which
glimmered ghostlike in her room, leaving
Uncle Jock with only a candle. Mother
had another candle to go to bed by, but
Aunt Janet warned her to blow it out as
soon as she was undressed.
AFTER I’d left school the visits to
Aunt Janet’s ceased, and I saw nothing
of her for several years. I felt I was doing
my duty by just sending a card every
Christmas. Then I heard that she was
ill, and I went to see her just before she
died.
No one was there to meet me, but I
managed to get a lift from the station.
It was a hot day, and entering Aunt
Janet’s house was like going down into a
cool, deep well. As I went down the dark
passage I was aware of the clock still
ticking in its endless, unhurried way in
the parlor. The stern nurse took me to
where Aunt Janet was lying in the high,
white bed, with Uncle Jock, very small
and shrunken, sitting beside it. I hardly
recognised her. The pink had faded from
her sunken cheeks, leaving them ashen,
her eyes were a faded grey, and there
was a pathetic trembling about the mouth
and hands. When she realised I was there
and who I was, she stretched out a shaking
hand and whispered: “I’ve left ye a wee
bit things, lassie. Tak’ care o’ them, for
they cost . . . they cost”
Her voice trailed away and her eyes
closed. Suddenly they flew open and
stared up with a lost, startled look. Then
they turned to Uncle Jock, and Aunt
Janet smiled a rather sardonic smile.
“Good nicht, MacPher-r-rson,” she whis-
pered. “I’ll gang fur-r-rst, as usual.”
She seemed to sink into a coma after
that, and I left her. Those were the last
words Aunt Janet spoke. She never re-
gained consciousness, and at five o’clock
next morning she died.


The Bulletin
Vol. 64.—N0. 3283.
Wednesday, January 13, 1943.
OUR TARZAN—UP A TREE AGAIN.
“Mr. Edgar Rice Burroughs, author of ‘Tarzan of the Apes,’ arrived in Sydney, when Mr. Lang was thundering against militia service in the
South-west Pacific.”


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper
“Australia for the White Man”
Directors:
H. K. Prior J. E. Webb
P. H. Prior David Adams
HEAD OFFICE: 252 George Street, Sydney:
Box 252IBB; ’Phone 87971.
Victoria: Newspaper House, 247-249 Collins
Street, Melbourne.
Queensland : 239 Adelaide Street, Brisbane .
Westralia : 33 Barrack Street, Perth.
New Zealand: Nathan’s Buildings (.opp,
G.P.0.), Wellington.
London : 1 Hare Place, 47 Fleet Street,
London, E.C.4.
THE DIGGERS LOOK ON.
It would have called for some powerful
sort of X-ray to know what actually went
on in last week’s singular proceedings
behind closed doors in Melbourne. All
that was certain from outside was that,
for the time being, government of Aus-
tralia by a constitutional Government
was suspended and government by a sec-
tion installed. On an issue vital to Aus-
tralia the constitutional Government had
abdicated its responsibility to govern in
favor of that section —one without claim
to elective responsibility or even to
majority status.
Naturally this extraordinary occurrence
held some interest for all Australians not
too busily engaged away on one or other
of the battle fronts. But for certain
features it would have had the suspense
of great drama. Its most obvious short-
coming in that line was the palpable
shabbiness of its general plot. Also, the
constitutional Government lacked the
necessary heroic quality. And the fact
that it had crawled to the section's
representative bodies in the six States
and had been assured of support by four
of them further robbed the dud drama of
suspense. It boiled down to poor farce.
Stiff, it held strong enough interest as
an extreme manifestation of political
expediency in the most abject form. As
such it commanded wide attention. For
one section of Australians it held a closer
special interest —1914-18 Diggers and
those who have fought in the present war.
These had a strong advantage over
their countrymen generally, over practi-
cally all members of the cap-in-hand
Government, and over the greater part of
the section to which the Government
abdicated its responsibility. They had a
special knowledge of the issue. On it
they could claim to be the country’s lead-
ing authorities, their views having the
backing of personal experience of the
most exacting kind. They knew not only
what was required from Australia’s stand-
point—Mr. Curtin himself knew that well
enough, and had stated it in terms
that must have convinced the fiercest
opponents to the proposed defence move
if these hadn’t been blinded and deafened
by ignorance or prejudice. The Digger
spectators of the Melbourne farce knew
instinctively. They knew as well what
was at stake from the standpoint of those
destined to do the fighting.
Needless to add, they were not consulted.
But collectively they had put their views on
record time after time at annual Australia-
wide congresses of their R.S.L. They had
done so again in November, resolving:
That the Commonwealth Government be
asked to make an immediate declaration
that the services of the C.M.F. shall not be
limited to Australia and its mandated terri-
tories, but shall be made available to the
Empire and the United Nations if and when
required, not only in the defence of Aus-
tralia and its territories, but in defence of
the cause of the United Nations.
This, of course, enlarges very consider-
ably on the form in which the Govern-
ment handed the issue over for the suc-
cession of party conferences to play with.
What the Diggers here sought was that
Australia should be put on exactly the
same fighting footing as the U.S.A. and
Labor-ruled Maoriland. The Govern-
ment proposed nothing so courageous.
Half-hearted all through, it set vague
limits on the fighting frontiers, apparently
confining these to parts of the Pacific
beyond, but not much beyond, the exist-
ing Defence Act boundaries.
In lieu of argument against the Gov-
ernment proposal —the same holds for
the Digger proposal—there has all along
been nothing but a moist appeal to emo-
tion. Setting aside the larger Digger pro-
posal (which completely takes the oppo-
nents’ breath away) it has never been
stated by the opponents to the Curtin pro-
posal what would be the position if the
country, taking their view, refused to
allow Australian troops to go beyond the
old Defence Act boundaries, and if
America then refused the employment of
American troops in the direct defending
of Australian territory. Neglecting that
vital aspect of the issue, the opponents of
the niggardly Curtin proposal were without
the semblance of a case from the start.
There was —and remains—another fal-
lacy in the whole opposition against
either the Curtin or the Digger proposal.
This is the assiduously cultivated but
demonstrably false notion —another con-
coction in lieu of argument —that with
the amending of the Defence Act
Australia would be denuded of troops.
What this appeal to the emotion
of pure ignorance overlooks is that by
change of the Act all enlisted men will
become liable to serve outside the former
boundaries —liable only ; not, as either
proposal’s opponents would try to make
the gullible think, certain to serve. More
would no doubt serve abroad than would
be possible without change of Act; but —
which is of some importance—how many
would depend on Parliament’s discretion.
That would be the position under either
the Curtin or the Digger proposal—how
many to be sent depending on Parlia-
ment’s view of Australia’s requirements
on the fighting fronts, not overlooking
fair comparative proportions with others
helping in the same cause. This is a very
different prospect from the false one con-
jured up by either proposal’s opponents.
So is the prospect implied for Aus-
tralia different. The hope of all those
supporting change in the Defence Act is
that through this the fuff horror of war
—with all it must mean with such an
enemy as the Jap—will be kept away
from this country’s cities and people,
women and children in particular. That
is the main inspiration of the A.I.F. It
should be the aspiration of every Aus-
tralian meriting the name. On its ac-
count alone —apart from endless other
considerations, such as equality of sacri-
fice and a fair deal to the volunteer
fighters—helping in it should be the obli-
gation of every available fit man the
country can now spare.
The alternative—never mentioned by
opponents of Defence Act change—would
be, first, the abandoning of the Diggers
voluntarily willing to guard the gates,
and then, directly because of that failure,
the abandoning of the gates themselves,
and consequent acceptance of the “un-
speakable disgrace” of Jap invasion.
One of the poor merits of the Govern-
ment’s worst example of failure to
govern has been that—for whatever the
spectacle may have been worth to any-
body—it brought into clear view those
who are too shortsighted to see where their
preferred way leads, or too muddle-headed
to see or feel anything realistically.
The Foreseen Crisis.
Exactly twenty-one years ago to the
day The Bulletin published an article
in which James Edmond set out the
position which had arisen in Australia
after four years of the Labor-unionism
that arrived in 1917. No mere recorder
of events, Edmond issued a warning
which went unheeded and a prophecy
which has come true. Necessarily
abbreviated, and with a few alterations
and additions made to bring it up to date,
the article is here reprinted.
“The New Year,” it began, “opened
with a holdup of the Victorian coal
supply, of the Westralian State-owned
railway system and of the coastal ship-
ping. It was the third glad year which
had opened with a shipping strike, and
unless the community takes stock of its
powers and responsibilities there may
be many more such openings,” Many
more there have been, and the worst
occurred on January 1, 1942, when, in
supreme contempt of a Labor Govern-
ment’s edicts and appeals and in infamous
disregard of the sacrifices of the men
fighting for Australia in the north, 35,000
well-paid Labor-unionists in Edmond’s
own city, who had had four days off at
Christmas, absented themselves from their
war work, many because they had been
refused double pay, which would have
been illegal.
Edmond is dead these ten years, but in
1921 he foresaw what the Labor-unionism
of his day, already exhibiting all the
characteristics of an unwhipped mob,
would lead to, in the political as well as
the industrial field. “For this,” he wrote, “is
the new creed taught by the new leaders,
some of them blatant, semi-criminal cast-
offs from overseas, whom Labor has taken
to its bosom, or who have taken Labor,
bosom and all, and made it their chattel.”
(1) LABOR SHALL NOT FIGHT FOR
AUSTRALIA. —Very reluctantly its bosses
sometimes admit that defence —untrained
and undisciplined defence—should be com-
pulsory when invasion actually takes place,
the invader choosing his own time, oppor-
tunity and place of landing. But they hold
that, when an enemy arises with the avowed
intention of wrecking the Empire and steal-
ing its outlying sections (including our-
selves), we should hold aloof. Then it is
suggested that when the Empire has been
defeated we should put up a hysterical
and hopeless and belated singlehanded scrap
among the ruins of Melbourne or Sydney
or Canberra, when we might have kept the
disaster half a globe away.
The one sin for which political Labor
grants no pardon is not blasphemy against
the Holy Ghost, as old Scripture has it,
but advocacy of service to keep the war
from our hearths and the men of rapine
away from our daughters.
(2) LABOR SHALL NOT PAY FOR
AUSTRALIA. —The classes which have an
alleged indubitable right to tax-exemption
include especially the manual worker even
if he is well off, and with him are lumped
the soft-handed leather-lunged talkers who
have installed themselves as leaders be-
cause they can make more and easier money
that way than any other.
(3) LABOR SHALL NOT WORK FOR
AUSTRALIA unless the factories, mines,
workshops, machinery, railways, etc., are
handed over to it —not to the nation, but
to a privileged section thereof. Then it
will work, not for Australia, but for itself,
giving such service or lack of service as it
pleases, and allowing no one to intrude on its
close corporation and do the work it leaves
undone. Its alleged grievance against the
private employer has become a sham, for
it rises against the State employer as
readily as against anybody else.
(4) LABOR SHALL NOT LOVE AUS-
TRALIA. —It may love Ireland or the Inter-
national, but not its motherland.
“This poisonous creed,” the dead
genius proceeded, “has developed during
the last handful of years.” During the
last 21 years it has been so inten-
sified and extended that, while Labor
politicians like Mr. Lang and Senator
Cameron and Mr, Ward and Mr.
Calwell have been behaving as in (1),
union bosses have been behaving as
if all the members of their unions were
Communists or anti-conscriptionists like
themselves. And with the multiplication
of Government industrial tribunals, in-
variably appointed in obedience to union
Demands, lawlessness has become
chronic in what Justice Higgins, with
unconscious irony, hailed as “a new
province for law and order.” In war, as
in peace, trade-unionists, especially
N.S.W. coalminers and N.S.W. war-
factory employees, “defy their own laws,
and throw numbers besides themselves
out of work, and blockade State and
private enterprise just as a foreign invader
might, and do their utmost to force the
community to buy them off. Whereupon
they show no gratitude, and give no
guarantee that they won’t promptly
demand more. To exact any penalty, no
matter how unreasoning the breach and
how enormous the loss, would be ‘vic-
timisation,’ which word, by dint of much
impressive reiteration, has become as
blessed as ‘Mesopotamia.’ ”
At the end of a year of wicked stop-
pages “an aggregate meeting of Kurri
miners,” after listening to the Attorney-
General, and being about to enter upon
a 10-days’ spell, “pledged themselves to
adhere to their federation’s anti-strike
policy, and to increase production in
1943.” Among them were men from Rich-
mond Main and Pelaw Main. “Pledge”
notwithstanding, Richmond Main and
Pelaw Main were idle again on January
6 and 7. The Pelaw Mainers struck be-
cause “the company allegedly disregarded
a ruling given in their favor by Judge Drake-
Brockman” ; the Richmond Mainers be-
cause “they disagreed with a ruling given
against them by the chairman of the
Northern Coal Reference Board.”
These proceedings, whatever Dr. Evatt
may think of them, would not have
astonished Edmond. He was familiar
with the record of the N.S.W. coalminers
in the last war; familiar with the facts
of their 1916 strike, which began at
Pelaw Main ; familiar with their outbreak
in 1917, the worst period of that war,
when, in spite of the 1916 “settlement,”
effected by a “sympathetic” Judge, they
were out for two months, and familiar
with the action taken by the Victorian
Government, which, threatened with a fuel
shortage, sent 300 men, with police to pro-
tect them, to Richmond and Pelaw Main.
It was with these mad and bad strikes in
mind that he wrote the following words:
Unionism has been made by its new
leaders a one-sided game. It has extensive
privileges, but it doesn’t profess to have
any particular duties in return. While it lays
down the theory that only unionists should
be allowed to work [a theory accepted by
the fawning N.S.W. Labor Government,
and, if the Legislative Council will stand
it, to be enforced by law], it doesn’t in the
least undertake to supply an adequate
number of them to do the necessary work.
Nor does it undertake that those it does
supply shall be capable. The chief qualifi-
cations are that one shall pay dues and
levies, even illegal ones; shall obey the
strike order without question; shall dis-
regard the law when ordered; shall be
hostile to the defence of Australia; shall
hate all employers and be a nark generally.
Then the leaders of the newest unionism
claim freedom from any obligation to
observe treaties; also they expect that no
resistance shall be offered them when they
declare war on the community.
In the process of years we have seen
Government after Government submit to
these outrageous pretensions; and by no
means all of them were Labor Govern-
ments. Edmond counselled resistance:
A possible remedy lies in making the fight
two-sided; in the community going on
strike against illegal strikers. It has as
much right to forbid them the use of its
post offices, railways, tramways, banks,
hospitals, and even its police and law courts,
as they have to forbid it the use of its rail-
ways. It has as much right to intercept
their contributions and to sequestrate their
funds as they have to intercept its mails
and sequestrate its steamers. And to
blacklist professional strike-raisers —bravoes
who have no interest in industry, but
murder industry for hire —to blacklist
them as voters and politicians would be
far less outrageous than their attempts to
blacklist non-strikers. It is a poor, unin-
spiring battle in which one side fights
and declares that the other is a hound if it
hits back.
Had Edmond’s prescription been reso-
lutely applied 20 years ago Australia
would not now be shamed and endan-
gered by industrial dingoes. And the
remedy is still available. Only the physi-
cian is wanting.
Butter and Mud.
Until last week Timoshenko commanded
the servile devotion of Sydney editors,
commentators and radio uncles. One of
the radio uncles pronounced him the
greatest general of all time. Newspaper
idolaters didn’t sink to quite that level
of prostration, but they agreed that the
Russian commander was a general and
a half: Himalaya to a rash of anthills
compared with those Blimps of the British
Army. It was suggested that the marshal
should send some of his subordinates to
Egypt to show the incompetents there
how to beat Rommel. Another proposal
was that he should be placed at the head
of the Anglo-American army of invasion
which is to whip Japan in jig-time (Com-
munist version) by landing somewhere on
France’s Channel coast.
Pre-eminence in Timoshenko worship
(if pre-eminence is the word) was dis-
puted by the Sunday “Sun” and the
“D.T.” On December 6 the “Sun” dis-
covered that “Timoshenko’s armies,”
having “timed the recoil and spring to
perfection,” had “swung from rock-
defence to attack” ; and there was a pic-
ture of Timoshenko to prove it. The
panegyrist turned from this congenial
theme to have a crack at General Per-
cival, who, being British, was, of course,
fair game. He asserted that “General
Percival promised to counter-attack to
save the battered Australian contingent,”
and that counter-attack there was none.
And in the last scene he saw “G.O.C.
Malaya Lieut.-General A. E. Percival
marching towards the conquering General
Yamashita behind the white flag and the
Union Jack.” This outrageous lie was
published in a supplement called “Fact.”
The “Daily Telegraph” of Jan. 1 also
had an article which combined abject
laudation of the Russian with a ferocious
attack on the Englishman who had to
encounter the Japanese Air Force with
150 alleged front-line machines, one-
twentieth of the number sent to Russia
in a twelvemonth, and with Brewster
Buffaloes and Wirraways to tackle the
O-fighters. Percival, it seems, was “a
clerk in London when the World War I
started.” He “has been described as look-
ing like.an ascetic professor.” His forces
“made strategic withdrawals and contact
withdrawals from the moment Japan
attacked,” and “the Japs made him one
of the outstanding flops of 1942.” How
different from Timoshenko! “This great
marshal, who is part Jew,”
....has even a higher place among the
five most successful men of 1942. He is the
greatest defensive military leader this war
has produced, and is at present proving that
he is probably the greatest offensive general.
General Alexander, it should be noted,
is not among “the five most successful
men of 1942.” He saved his army in
Burma when the army seemed doomed,
and, commanding the land, sea and air
forces of the Empire in one of the great
and decisive battles of history, he smashed
Rommel so thoroughly that the Axis will
never threaten Alexandria and the Canal
again. But Alexander is an Englishman
of the Old School Tie order, so exit
Alexander. Enter again “the son of the
Revolution” —the “D.T.” dotes on revolu-
tions :
Timoshenko has undoubtedly played the
major part in defeating both of Hitler’s
campaigns, in 1941 against Moscow and in
1942 against Stalingrad and the Volga. His
ability to execute a planned retreat to the
Volga and to hold Stalingrad marked him
as a master of defensive strategy. But since
late November he has switched to the
attack, and his great winter offensive —
bigger and more significant than anything
this war has seen —is sweeping towards
Rostov.
Timoshenko- has proved himself a fight-
ing general, and the English-speaking
race has always had a liking for fighting
generals, whatever their misfortunes ; for
example, Burnside, Hooker, Buffer, Gat-
acre and Gough. But the “D.T.” fell into
a ghastly blunder. It came out that, so
far from its idol being foremost among
“the five most successful men of 1942,”
he was deprived of his command after
the failure of his spring offensive. “S. M.
Herald” was the first to hint at this shat-
tering fact; then the “Daily Mirror” got
the story from London:
“News Chronicle’’ military commentator
A. J. Cummings says that very few in
Britain are aware that Timoshenko is not
still directing the campaign in Southern
Russia. “He was relieved of his command
some months ago when Russian resistance
broke down unexpectedly after the fall of
Rostov. Mr. Churchill would be the first
to agree that failure in the higher command,
however eminent the commander, must have
merciless consequences.”
Only a few weeks ago correspondents in
Russia were sending censored dispatches
from that country praising Timoshenkp’s
genius in organising the surprise counter-
attack at Stalingrad. General Zhukov, the
hero of the defence of Moscow, is com-
manding on the southern front.
Gilbert “should be living at this hour.”
He alone could do lyrical justice to those
correspondents in Russia and the contem-
porary variety of “the idiot who praises
with enthusiastic tone every century but
this and every country but his own.”


PLAIN ENGLISH
Tough Going.
Affairs in Tunisia have not gone to the
satisfaction of writing and talking boys.
A swarm of correspondents arrived with
the Anglo-American forces, and from the
beginning they complained of the cen-
sorship, though in a part of the world so
strange, and in a political and military
situation so doubtful, it had to be strict.
Then General Eisenhower made his
arrangement with Darlan. Correspon-
dents on the spot had to suppress their
emotions, but writing and talking boys
in other parts worked typewriters and
tongues in furious denunciation. And
some of the attacks did not cease when
the admiral had been done in.
That foul crime, denounced by Mr.
Roosevelt as “murder in the first de-
gree,” and by Mr. Hull in equally strong
terms, but applauded by anti-Darlanists,
has not brought about the improvement
anticipated by those persons. It was soon
discovered that General Giraud! was “very
anti-Communist,” and the general, for
his part, discovered that the plot against
Darlan had been transferred to his own
person ; hence a dozen arrests. General
Giraud has had no experience of politics.
General de Gaulle had had none before he
went to London in June, 1940, though he
has since become a politician by choice.
It may be hoped that the new High Com-
missioner will deliver the goods, as Darlan
did, without sharing Darlan’s fate. But
it is unfortunate for the United Nations
that he should have had to be transferred
-from the command of his army to an un-
familiar and dangerous civil post; thrice
unfortunate for the French that in their
sore need of a democratic warrior be-
hind whom the whole nation might rally,
in person or in spirit, their generals
should become party leaders.
In all the discussions of the politics of
Petain, Darlan, De Gaulle and Giraud
the politics of the Moroccans, Algerians
and Tunisians are never mentioned. Yet
it would be strange if very awkward senti-
ments had not been excited among them
by the defeat of their French conquerors,
by their own economic plight which fol-
lowed it (a brother of General Eisen-
hower has asked the U.S.A. to relieve a
general shortage of food and clothing)
and by Axis propaganda against the
United Nations. The Axis has been very
active in that department, and it can boast
to the Arab world that the land cam-
paign at least has thus far gone in its
favor. The Germans were unexpectedly
quick in assembling forces strong enough
to stop the bold attempt of the First Army
to rush Tunis and Bizerta. They have
since been helped by a rainy season
which makes the country impossible for
tanks.
The campaign in North Africa is
necessary, and if successful, as it should
be, it will have grand strategical results.
The Allied commanders owe it to their
men and to their countries to withhold
their attacks until victories may be won
without exacting unwarranted sacrifices.
But the Second-Front gentry, who never
liked the landings in North Africa, have
started their nefarious agitation again, the
suggestion apparently being that General
Eisenhower and Admiral Cunningham
should be instructed to cut their losses
and gather new forces for a descent on
Dieppe or Calais. Left-Wingers don’t
care how many Britons and Americans
die horribly so long as their own skins
are safe and the desire of their shrivelled
hearts is gratified.
Cobby's Great Job.
From “FT.”:
Though no one would undervalue the
R.A.A.F. recruiting work done by Donald
Cameron (B. 23/12/’42) as chairman of Re-
cruiting Drive Committees and by his associates
in the State drives since January, 1940, such as
Wilson (Q.), Loxton (Vic.), Barrett (S.A.),
Yeates (W.A.) and Soundy (Tas.), the main
responsibility from the first was shouldered,
as Director of Recruiting, by Wing-Commander
(now Air Commodore) Arthur Henry Cobby,
D. 5.0., D.F.C. with two bars. Yes, Cobby,
whom F. M. Cutlack, in the volume he con-
tributed to the Official History of the 1914-18
War, pronounced “one of the most daring
spirits in the Australian air service.”
R.A.A.F. recruiting commenced in Septem-
ber, 1939. Cobby, then in Civil Aviation, was
transferred from that department to form,
organise and administer the Directorate of Re-
cruiting. This he did with resounding success
from October, 1939, till August, 1942, when
he was appointed to his present post as Air
Officer Commanding North-Eastern Area.
The selection and training of personnel, the
organisation of recruiting centres and voluntary
committees, and the setting up of air-crew selec-
tion committees and trade-testing sections were
the direct responsibility of this able Victorian.
It was no 40-hour-week job—l suppose the
man averaged 90 hours a week for three years,
among other things, writing articles, making
talkies, speaking on platforms and at the micro-
phone, administering the organisation and
striving to keep 6000 voluntary helpers in an
enthusiastic and helpful frame of mind —but
Cobby was always equal to the occasion.
Australia knows the results and so does the
enemy. The words in which General Mac-
Arthur paid his tribute to the work of the
R.A.A.F. and its pals of the sth American
Air Force over Papua (“no commendation could
be too great; the keystone upon which the
whole arch of the campaign was erected”) must
be music in Cobby’s ears.
Press-front Panic.
Sydney “Sun,” which periodically gets
the breeze up as hysterically as if it lived
on top of a time-bomb, has been in a
pitiful state over the Jap armada sighted
—and pasted—in Rabaul Harbor.
By all report, the armada was no sight
to inspire cheer or the ringing of bells.
But there’s a middle course between both
this sort of folly and the “Sun’s.” The
middle course is the normal sane one of
combined effort to keep, as far as pos-
sible, the Jap as far off as possible, and,
whatever comes, calm and steady deter-
mination to see it through.
The “Sun,” plagiarising the Walrus,
had a fit: “The time has come when the
Prime Minister can serve his country best
by a visit to Washington.” A variation
of the bright idea panic sheets had when,
as they thought and said, the military
leaders were all wrong in New Guinea.
Then, “Ministers should be sent.” Minis-
ters went. Nobody believes for a moment
that their visits had the slightest effect
on what has happened since.
Mr. Curtin might possibly be able to
bring off a miracle in Washington. If
Mr. Churchill were invited over, too, Mr.
Curtin might possibly be able to per-
suade the joint planners of the beat-
Hitler-first strategy to ditch this in favor
of beat-Nippon-first. Short of that
miracle it’s hard to see what purpose his
flying the Pacific would serve.
The greater possibility is that Mr.
Roosevelt is already only too well aware
of all the things Mr. Curtin might be able
to tell him. If he isn’t it’s not for the
want of telling. For many months lead-
ing New York dailies and other Ameri-
can publications have hammered away
on the theme “The war can be lost in
the Pacific.” So have men like Mr. Grew,
the last Ambassador at Tokyo, who was
uncannily right in his warnings to Wash-
ington of Japanese designs, as a White
Paper has demonstrated, and whose influ-
ence on public opinion must have in-
creased since the White Paper was pub-
lished. Take them all through, it’s right
to say that the war uppermost in the
minds of Americans is the war in the
Pacific.
If the U.S. isn’t doing what the “Sun”
would prescribe to win this war, it isn’t
for lack of interest or knowledge. The
U.S.A. is doing quite a lot already to this
end, and will do more when it can. “The
period of our defensive attrition is pass-
ing,” said the President, addressing the
new Congress. “Last year we stopped
the Japanese. This year we intend to
advance.” And he is a man whose word
is his bond.
While the home front presents the blots
it does there is need here for the Prime
Minister —for a Prime Minister, Luckily
the blots don’t represent the real core
of the country. They’re there, and, for
that matter, America has its share of the
like. But, like the core of America, the
core of this country is sound and solid.
Nor does any panic-stricken paper repre-
sent it.
That Taxation Feeler.
Though Mr. Chifley denies everything,
that’s what it was, a feeler. It came out
of Canberra that the Government had
suddenly discovered the need for another
£70,000,000, that additional tax, begin-
ning at 6d. in the £ on taxable income of
£156, was proposed, and that the tax
would be used in part to “establish a
special fund to pay for social services
planned by the Government.”
The middle-class doesn’t object to pay-
ing for the war —far from k —but it’s get-
ting mighty sick of being asked to pay
for socialistic new-orderism. Generally,
the man on a salary between £8 and £2O
a week —that is, the man who was in that
range in normal times —is earning it
because of his ability, not through any
wages award.
The salary-earner in this class, married
and with a family, has been hit hard by
war taxation and the rise in living costs.
He has received no “war loading” nor
any other addition to salary since the
war began. His commitments in the
way of insurance, social fees, rents, etc.,
have remained, and the cost of feeding
and clothing the family has mounted
enormously.
To be asked to pay for new social-
service schemes is too much. The middle-
class has no Wards or Calwells to yell
for it in Parliament, no trade-union
bosses to crack a whip for it over poli-
ticians. But it thinks a lot, and it can be
nasty when it likes, and it can sway elec-
tions. These things ought to be remem-
bered by a Labor Government which
must face the electors this year.
Aged Sixteen.
Tom Dunlop, aged 16, has a job in
Sydney. Tom is the admiration of his
circle because he can whistle and croon
like a professional.
On the strength of his whistling-
crooning, Tom appeared before the mike
at a radio “amateur hour.” Almost the
first thing the announcer noticed was
that the youth had a returned soldier’s
badge. He admitted that he’d fibbed
about his age and served in the A.I.F.
until his guilty secret was a guilty secret
no longer.
“Yairs,” said Tom, in his most casual
manner, “I thought I’d go down and
(Continued on page 8 .)
OUR HEADHUNTERS.
(Their motto: “We Never Get Our Man.”)


Obtain Quick
from Backache and Kidney Troubles
by taking
DOAN’S
BACKACHE
KIDNEY PILLS
They help tired kidneys remove excess
acids and poisonous waste from the
blood. Look to your kidneys—give
them the help they need.
SOLD BY ALL CHEMISTS
AND STOREKEEPERS.
Foster-McClellan Co.,
Proprietors,
15 Hamilton St., Sydney.
WHEN HAIR GROWS THIN!
For bald patches, alopecia patches, dandruff, itching
and dryness of the scalp, falling hair, use McMahon’s
Hair Restorer, proven effective even in cases of bald-
ness, and equally good for men. women and children.
It restores the scalp to a healthy condition. Easy
and pleasant to use^
McMAHON'S HAIR RESTORER
PRICE: 5/-
' Obtainable from Chemists. Hairdressers and Stores. If you
cannot get it locally post 5/0 to the wholesale distributors:
GRAIG & AITKEN PTY.. LTD.,
654 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Trade Inquiries Invited.
d
NUGGET'
SHOE POLISH
Gives
Full Leather
Pi-oteciion
Don’t dab the brush into the polish,
draw it lightly over the top and give
your shoes that last brisk rub with
a soft cloth.
NUGGET SPM 01 * 01 '*
f
join, see ; and then after I got away from
Singapore I reached Batavia. Some of
us was sent to Colombo. I’m walking
along the street there and run into me
father. Yairs, he’s in the A.1.F., too.”
“And what did your father do?” “He
nearly died,” said Tom.
Next time you hear a calamity-howler
decrying Australia and its people, think
of Tom Dunlop, returned soldier, aged
16, and waiting till he turns 18 so that he
may join the R.A.A.F.
POLITICAL POINTS
The Federal A.L.P. conference deigned
to permit the Labor Government to
authorise General MacArthur to send
Australian militiamen beyond Australian
territory to “such other areas in the South-
west Pacific as the Governor-Genefal
proclaims as being territories associated
with the defence of Australia.” The
voting was four State A.L.P. branches to
two ; and Fallon, the president, protested
bitterly that it would have been three to
three if a delegate from Tasmania hadn’t
changed his mind. The Queensland
branch voted no, but the most eloquent
speech for the ayes was delivered by ex-
Premier Forgan Smith, as one of ttie
Queensland delegates, who was in office
far longer than any other Labor Premier
or P.M., and his successor Cooper con-
demned the branch’s sentiments as flatly.
Conference rounded off the wildly illogi-
cal proceedings by re-electing Fallon
president.
Mr. Holloway, who is Minister of
Something or Other, “greatly regrets that
it was thought necessary to change the
Australian policy of voluntary service
for overseas.”
However, the Labor movement having
decided to change the policy constitution-
ally, such policy must be obeyed.
This means that Mr. Holloway, at an
immense sacrifice of principle, has de-
cided to remain Minister of Something
or Other; and the money—which is good
—will remain in the family.
W. M. Hughes, sometime leader of the
Labor, National Labor, Nationalist and
Australia parties, and now leader of the
U.A.P., made several discoveries last
week. One was that Australia should
send an army mission to Russia to learn
from Cossacks ploughing through snow
on the treeless steppes how to whip Jap
jungle-fighters, whom the Russians are
not fighting. Another was that “the mass-
ing of Japanese forces in Rabaul pie-
sages the imminence of a major Japanese
military movement against Australia,”
and that “Mr. Churchill and Mr. Roose-
velt ought to be told that we want ships
and aircraft” —although we can get them
only at Russia’s expense. But the most
dazzling was that the A.L.P. majority
vote permitting the Government to send
militia beyond Australian territory was
“a great triumph for the'democratic move-
ment.” “A great triumph for the demo-
cratic movement”! If Billy believes that
he ought to be back in the first of his
five parties.
In January, 1918, 300 of the 800 men
in the Richmond Main and Pelaw Main
(N.S.W.) mines were Victorians, sent
there by the Victorian Government, with
police to protect them, because the
N.S.W. coal strikes in 1916 and 1917
(August 2 to October 3 in that year) ha'd
left its State short of coal. The current
mob of Richmond Mainers and Pelaw
Mainers celebrated the anniversary by
going on strike for two days. At least
it looked like a celebration, and the
solemn promise made to Dr. Evatt in
person went for nothing.
From somewhere - near - Macquarie-
street:
Although Mr. Badly was a coalminer and is
titular Minister of Mines, he never mentions
coal nowadays. He has hardly ever mentioned
it since even Canberra was moved to protest
against his taking 1200 men out of the mines
and paying them pensions (in the first instance,
without Parliamentary authority) when the Japs
were in their full career of-conquest. Nowa-
days Mr. Badly can think of nothing but dogs
and dog-racing. He discourses on this err-
thralling subject almost every day. Bringing
it up in Cabinet, alleged to be always occu-
pied with the State War Effort, he got Cabinet’s
sanction for “the appointment of a committee
of departmental officers” (also presumably
concerned with the State War Effort) “to investi-
gate the management, control and conduct of
greyhound-racing” by way of supplying material
for a Badly Tin-hare Bill. If the Japs do in-
vade N. S. Wales they will find Mr. Badly, an
island of brawn-and-bonehead totally surrounded
by “departmental officers,” making a first-hand
study of the,Poor Man’s Sport, all in the inter-
ests of the State War Effort.
Provoked at the A.L.P. conference,
the P.M. asked querulously “How can a
Government do its work efficiently when
there are Ministers running round the
country instead of sticking to their jobs?”
Exactly, but how can a Prime Minister
do anything about it unless he acts in-
stead of talking?
In a court thronged with sympathisers
who cheered advocates Thornton and
Abram Landa, M.L. A., 77 Sydney unionists
pleaded guilty to having absented them-
selves from their factories and workshops
on Jan. 1. They were bound over in
the terrific sum of £2O “to observe the
National Security (Holidays and Annual
Leave) Regulations.” This presumably
means that any of them can take a day
off, so long as it is not a forbidden
THE BIG STICK.
“If Dr. Evatt thinks he can solve the problem of absenteeism by using the big stick he has
another think coming.” —Indignant union boss.... “Absentees from factories and workshops
were bound over in the sum of £20.”
holiday, without forfeiting the bond.
And if the point is disputed they will
be hailed as heroes transcending the
wounded and worn soldiers from New
Guinea and El Alamein.
From one of Keith Murdoch’s articles,
published in three States:
I am personally a believer in a new
party which would attract all those who
would make the task of making Australia
great, strong and happy the major part of
their lives.
So the party which Murdoch helped to
make is not to make the task of making
him M.H.R. for Henty one of its minor
election worries.
Said President Roosevelt: “I cannot
predict when the war will end, but it is
possible that when it ends the present
Congress will still be sitting.” A.B.C.
and a Sydney daily promptly explained
that Congress runs for four years. It is
elected every second year, and the next
election will be held in November, 1944.
In a verbal brush with Crofts, of the
A.C.T.U., Curtin said it was time the
trade-union movement learned to speak
with one voice. It has learned so to
speak, and the voice, though the P.M. is
deaf to it, can be heard. It says “Our
mob first, our mob second, and, if there’s
anything left over, our mob again.”
According to “5.M.H.,” the Prime
Minister “has been perturbed both by Mr.
Ward’s handling of the New Year holi-
day position and his absence from Syd-
ney when the Attorney-General was
handling the prosecution of absentees.”
Eddie’s a great hand at not being where
he ought to be when the results of his
teaching become awkward.
The Scunn-Dully—sorry, Dunn-Scully
—tick inquiry has been dragging at
Grafton (N.S.W.), and is to be shifted
to Sydney. About all the country has
got for its money so far is a vet.’s state-
ment that he favors eradication rather
than inoculation (it is what everybody
favors) and the news that when officials
arrived to dip a farmer’s pony the farmer
mounted it and refused to get off.
So far as can there are
no stopwork, prices, profits, tick-control,
social security, tin-hare or Allied Works
Council inquiries being held in the towns
of Bogan Gate, Tooraweenah, Mirboo
North, Quorn or Dumbleyung, nor have
any buildings been taken over in any of
these places by any board, commission
or committee. This curious lack will no
doubt be “investigated” with “a view to
action.”
Having issued a printed report weigh-
ing 21b. on Bill Gollan’s wrangle
with Merrett, the Meat Industry Com-
missioner, and taken three men from the
“Colonial” Secretary’s department to
conduct a tin-hares inquiry, the Sydney
Government has decided to do something
for companies registered in N.S.W. The
something was announced by the Premier,
McKell or Mac Kay, in these terms:
Where a complete list was furnished in
1941 or any subsequent year under the
Companies Act, it will be necessary for the
next two years to furnish only particulars
of transfers, dates, ex-members, new mem-
bers and changes of share payments. The
order is made to save paper and release
man-power.
Thus are peace and the new order
brought nearer.
Lang’s paper publishes what it calls
“The Conscription Barometer” —a list,
authorised or unauthorised, of N. S.
Wales Labor politicians, candidates,
trade-unions, A.L.P. branches, coun-
cils, regional conferences and mem-
bers of “the executive” for and
against militia service in the south-west
Pacific. Federal politicians among the
antis are Senators Armstrong and Amour
and Representatives Ward, Rosevear,
MuLcahy, Sheehan, Falstein, Watkins and
Breen; the State politicians include
Ministers Cahill and McGirr, Assembly-
men Lang, Lamb, Gorman, Matthews,
Cunningham, Carlton, O’Halloran,
Stanley, Sweeney, Greig, Shannon, Weir,
Tonge and Mrs. Quirk, and Leg. Coun-
cillors McGirr, Culbert, Martin, Graves,
McNamara, King, Mullins, Concannon,
Mahony and O’Dea. Watch some of
them deny the impeachment and others
twist! '■ \
Dr. Evatt in a broadcast:
The Japanese enemy will never rest. He
cannot rest. He must go on. I believe
he must make a serious attempt against
Australia, and that for such purpose he is
building up great supply depots north of
Australia. Therefore we cannot let up for
a moment....
We must push the enemy back until
every Australian prisoner is redeemed from
his> captivity. Until then we must not,
we dare not, rest. What right have we at
home to rest?
No right whatever when, as the Attorney-
General puts it, “the ordeals of our fight-
ing men are great, at times agonising.”
And, give this man credit, he is enforcing
the law against slackers and dingoes when
his colleague Ward is “squibbing.”
Ex-Senator Sheehan to Curtin at the
Federal A.L.P. conference (unless two
papers got him wrong):
You have walked into a trap made by
our capitalist enemies. Unless you retrace
your steps you will find yourself outside
the Labor movement. You must either
come back to Labor principles or go on
the anti-Labor path. - 'm
Mr. Sheehan is to try to “come .back”
at the Senate election. With Ministers
Keane (pro-“conscription”) and Cameron
(anti-“conscription”) he has been placed
on the party ticket. Perhaps in the mean-
time he will discover that Australia is„
really at war, if not that “moderation in
war is imbecility.”
Clive McPherson, chairman of the
Australian Wheat Board, has come out
of a yogilike silence to announce that
Australia has 97,750,000 bushels of old
wheat on hand and can expect 132,000,000
to 138,000,000 from this season’s crop.
This doesn’t square with the N.S.W.
Statistician’s estimate of 52,000.000 for
his own State, since it leaves but
86,000,000 for the three other wheat
States. Victoria and S. Australia had
good yields. \
Australia is apparently to lose Nelson
T. Johnston, the able and affable U.S.
Minister to Australia. Anyway, it was
given out at the week-end that Edward
J. Flynn, chairman of the National
Democratic Committee, had been named
“Ambassador and Personal Represen-
tative of the President as Minister
Plenipotentiary to Australia,” and, pre-
mising that he had heard of Mr. Flynn’s
appointment, the present incumbent said
straightway that he “would be going
back to the U.S:A. at an early date and
retiring from the diplomatic services.”
Anticipating the White House, Mr. Flynn
announced the Flynn appointment him-
self. Though he cannot lack ability, he
has a bad press in his home State of New
York, and the sober “Times” joined
Republican papers in giving interesting,
though invidious, details of his public
life.
Archie Cameron or some other member
ought to find out how much A.B.C. paid
for “our Moscow correspondent’s” rig-
marole, inflicted on a defenceless public
until even A.B.C. got fed up.


(ViUuuU?
Gold Medal
WINES
PERSONAL ITEMS
The highest American award at
General MacArthur’s disposal—the Dis-
tinguished Service Cross of the United
States —has been awarded to Austra-
lians General Blarney, Lieut.-General
E. F. Herring, Major-General G. A.
Vasey, Brigadier G. F. Wootten, Briga-
died K. W. Eather, and Group-Captain
W. Garing for “extraordinary courage,
marked efficiency and precise execution
of operation during the Papuan cam-
paign.”
Canada sends very able servants to
Australia. Its Trade Commissioner in
Sydney, Lieut.-Col. L. M. Cosgrove, most
courteous of officials and most graceful of
after-dinner speakers, has been booked for
the job of Military Attache. He is to be
succeeded by Kenneth F. Noble, who’s
had wide experience round the Pacific
and spent nine years with Canada’s
Hongkong, Bombay and Singapore offices
before coming to Australia last year.
Typical of Americans being nothing if
not original is the fact that their North
African leader, Lieut.-General Dwight
D. Eisenhower, picked as an aiding off-
sider not an Army but a Navy officer,
Lieut.-Commander Harry C. Butcher.
According to U.S. report, the general
wanted someone who “wouldn’t be too
damned subservient,” and by like report
he would seem to have picked on an
original, or else, perhaps, Butcher just
represents good old U.S. custom. A bit
of his background: “Butcher sold news-
papers at Springville, and at lowa State
College he ran a tailor’s shop, had a base-
ball-throwing concession, in which the
customer tried to peg a darkie’s head
stuck through a canvas, and did publicity
for the college.” Later he edited a paper
for the “fertiliser industry.” Crediting
Eisenhower with resemblances to Butcher,
a U.S. paper hails the combination as
making it think that “some dependable
old Americana is starting to weigh-in in
the war potential.”
John Mellis Napier (he prefers the
second name), who got a New Year title
as Chief Justice of S.A., took that post
last year on the death of George Murray.
A Scotsman now 60, he reached S.A. as
a youth with his father, a prominent
doctor, was articled to C. C. Kingston,
was junior partner to A. J. McLachlan
and to P. M. Glynn, and became a Judge
at 42. As sidelines, he has been chair-
man of the Federal Banking Commis-
sion and Grand Master of S.A. Free-
masons. Two sons are away in the
R.A.A.F.
A straight six feet of 17-year-old Aus-
tralian lately entered a city for the first
time in his life, found the R.A.A.F.
recruiting depot and offered himself in
any capacity. He was Jim Crawford, of
Kihee station, out from Eromanga (Q.),
and he started for Brisbane to get there
with the New Year because back in April
he tried for the A.1.F., was told he was
too young and to call again “in 1943.”
In his 700-mile journey he’d swum a
flooded river, walked 30 miles, travelled
by train and lorry. He left school at
14, has been a bushworker ever since
and drove a bulldozer for the Main
Roads Board. He so impressed the
R.A.A.F. that the officials are seeing what
can be done about him, though he won’t
be 18 till next December.
Few have done so much for Aus-_
tralian wine as R. C. (“Bob”) Davis, man-
aging director of Caldwells, Elected to
the Federal Viticultural Council in 1918,
he has since been a delegate to the annual
conventions without a break. In 1932
he became president of the N.S.W. Wine
Association, and when it merged with
the Australian W.P.A. in 1936 he became
chairman of the Australian body. He
resigned the other day, but will still take
an active hand in the association’s work,
and, with a rosy future rising up for Aus-
tralian wines if authorities give them a
fair spin, the assoc, will have enough
work on its hands to keep even one of
its hardest workers very busy.
His sorties over enemy-occupied
Europe have added a bar to the D.F.C.
earned by Squadron-Leader Hugo Thros-
sell Armstrong, of Perth. Hugo Thros-
sell, V.C., was his uncle and Katharine
Susannah Prichard is his aunt. His
father was the first motorist to drive a
car from Perth to Sydney over the bush
tracks that then existed. His grand-
father was George Throssell, Premier of
the Sunset State after Forrest.
As well as indicating his strong feel-
ings over Jap atrocities (on which Diggers
who’ve been at close grips with the Jap
also have strong feelings), those recent
fiery utterances of U.S, Admiral Halsey,
C.-in-C. South Pacific, are right in char-
acter. The admiral has long been known
as one of the most direct-speaking and
direct-acting of U.S. Navy officers. Once,
commanding a destroyer squadron in
peace manoeuvres, he was ordered to
attack, the “enemy” being represented by
a big batch of cruisers. Instead of going
about it on orthodox lines, as expected,
Halsey put down a smoke barrage, and
through it took his destroyers full speed
ahead among the cruisers. Carpeted for
having risked naval property by dashing
through a squadron, he was offered an
officer to defend him. He said he'd
present his own defence. It was: “I
was ordered to attack. I attacked.”
“El Verdugo’s” study:
H. P. Brown would probably win a prize
in any show for the best-balanced tempera-
ment, and at any masque ball for the most
lifelike and involuntary representation of
Buddha. On the prize-money in each case the
British civil service could justly claim a trainer’s
fee. Nobody meeting H.P.B. for the first time
would dream that he was a Yorkshireman from
Sunderland, hardened in the rough airs of the
Newcastle-on-Tyne educational system. Since
boyhood he has been reduced to precision-
instrument tolerances by 25 years of industrious
grinding in the mother of all G.P.Os. (St.
Martin’s-le-Grand), with a little extra burnish
acquired in a high-tensioned special communica-
tions job in India, and a good final furbishing
with the Great War machine which brought out
the shine and established an oil-film on all his
moving parts while he was the U.K.’s war-period
supervisor of telephone systems and emergency
defence communications. He was in his middle
thirties then; at 43 somebody brought him to
Australia as technical adviser to the Post Office
at a minor salary. Within a few months his
salary had begun to rise like a police ther-
mometer in Birdsville. Within a few years he
had almost the highest civil-service pay in Aus-
tralia, and onlookers at his career had an
uneasy feeling that one dnv he might go back
COMMISSIONER HARRY BROWN.
to Yorkshire and take the darned place with
him. Then Lord Hirst, head of the giant British
General Electric Co., outbid the Common-
wealth for his services with a rousing offer,
and, having made him chairman and joint
managing director of B.G.E. with his own re-
lation, E. E. Hirst, in Australasia, generously
and straightway lent him back gratis to the
country to be Co-ordinator-General of Public
Works. Brown has been giving the Common-
wealth his highly valuable organising experience
since 1940. Frith caught one of his victim’s typi-
cal facial attitudes as he sat as a Commissioner
over the tousled Allied Works Council inquiry
in Sydney, serene, cool and Gautama-like
among the moist unease of cross-examinations.
When his job is done it will be complete,
organised, shining, beautifully unobtrusive, and
if he hangs anybody the knot will be perfectly
tied, the rope greased with the best vaseline;
and the victim will pass out strong in the con-
viction that H.P.B. is a pleasant host who is
giving him a good time. The last word he will
hear on earth is a courteous “please.”
Strange noises coming from Adelaide
University recently were satisfactorily
explained by 64-year-old Professor of
Physics Kerr Grant. He was experiment-
ing with one of the 530 inventions re-
ceived since last May by Adelaide office
of the Army Inventions Directorate.
Prof. Grant is hon. controller. Only
five of the bright ideas have proved worth
troubling about. Apart from being an
inventor himself, the Prof, trained Ted
Both, of “iron lung” fame. Son of a
PROFESSOR KERR GRANT.
flourmiller, Kerr Grant was born in Vic-
toria, and his numerous scholarship
awards not only paid for his complete
education but showed a credit balance
of several hundred pounds. He’s been
Prof, of Physics in Adelaide for 31 years.
“T.P.”: “Alex, Peacock owned the
biggest laugh in Vic.’s Parliamentary his-
tory” (B. 23/12/’42). He didn’t. David
Kerr had a guffaw that beat Alec’s with
yards to spare. Peacock, with mouth
wide open, like a prima donna out to
take her top “K” or bust, emitted three
sharp staccato explosions. Kerr’s bid
for the blue ribbon was in his drawback.
There were the trio of piercing yelps, but
in between the breath was sucked in with
fearsome whistling intensity. I was a
friend of both, and met them once at a
church bazaar. The parson flinched when
Alec let go, but when Davy made it a
duet the parson said “My God! ” and he
didn’t say it prayerfully either. Even
Peacock advised the Scot to “Get your
laugh sandpapered, Davy; otherwise it
will ruin your career!”
A memorial brochure put out to com-
memorate journalist, versifier, actor,
black-and-white artist and good fellow
Harry Thring Phipson brings to notice
one of the oddest “associations” Sydney
has known, the Abyssinian Old Boys’
Association, launched by Phipson. It
sprang from vigorous but facetious Im-
perial Service Club argument over the
rights and wrongs of the Abyssinian
War ; included both defenders and de-
tractors of the Lion of Judah ; and ran
to an “old boys’ ” tie, a dreadful con-
coction of silver, scarlet and pale blue.
Restricted to members of the old A.1.F.,
it became an institution, members meet-
ing regularly from that date until the
present war sent many of them cam-
paigning again.
Tasmania’s Chief Justice Morris, who
became K.B. in the New Year list,
hailed originally from Victoria—born at
that State’s Auburn and educated at St.
Patrick’s College and Melbourne Uni.
He moved to the Speck in 1930 and prac-
tised with the late A. G. Ogilvie for
eight years in the Ogilvie, McKenna and
Morris firm. It’s only 15 years since he
was admitted to the Vic. Bar. Now 40,
he’s one of the Commonwealth’s young-
est Judges. Many clerks articled to firms
in which he was a member have good
reason to remember the legal training he
went out of his way to provide for them.
Decorations include the American
Silver Star to Flying-Officer Elton Murray
Ifould, R.A.A.F., son of ex-Sydney Public
Librarian Ifould, who’s now one of Aus-
tralia’s countless Deputy Directors ; his
line, War Industry. Young Ifould won
the Silver Star for gallantry near Buna,
repeatedly flying low with deliberate
intent to draw the Japs’ fire and thus be
able to put the artillery on to them.
War needs having greatly expanded the
activities of Ford companies in Aus-
tralia, the directorate has been increased
from six to eight by the appointment of a
Canadian and an Australian. The Canadian
is C. C. Westman, who procured the
machinery abroad when the Ford plant
was erected in Geelong and later super-
vised installation. The Australian is E. Scott
Inglis. A fighter pilot with No. 2 Austra-
lian Squadron in the last war, he was
subsequently a test pilot for A. V. Roe,
England. With Squadron-Leader F. L.
Roberts, R.A.A.F., he attended the first
International Aeronautical Congress at
Amsterdam in 1919, and has been with
the Ford concern in Australia since 1920.
He has a son in the R.A.A.F.
The Man-power people who called up
in slight error a bunch of citizens in the
seventies and eighties could have pleaded
justification if it had been Jack Moses
they’d sent for. On January 12 Jack,
as bright and lively as in the days when
he wandered the bush, had an 83rd birth-
day. Angus and Robertson are putting
out his Nine Miles from Gundagai book
of verse ; all proceeds to the Red Cross.
Previously missing, now reported
p.o.w. in Jap hands in North Malaya,
Captain Ben Barnett, onetime Test
wicketkeeper. He enlisted in the A.I.F.
in 1940 from the staff of the T. and G.
Melbourne.
Into the silence:
Two leading S.A. agricultural experts. H. C.
Pritchard was secretary to the Agricultural
Bureau and editor of its “Journal.” In earlier
days (with an interval for war service) he was
secretary at Roseworthy Agricultural College.
George Quinn started as a boy in Adelaide
Botanic Gardens and worked up to be Chief
Horticulturist of S.A.. his book on pruning
being standard for Australia. One son is in
the same department; another is a Government
viticulturist in Victoria.
In Adelaide, Osmond Gilles (M.L.-born),
a veteran whose uncle and namesake was first
Colonial Treasurer of S.A., and is remembered
in the city’s suburbs by Glen Osmond, Mount
Osmond and the O.G plain.
In Brisbane, at 74, ex-inspector Michael
O’Connor. Joining the Q. Police in 1888, he
did 40 years’ good work before retiring. A
good bushman and a champion horseman.
At Warrnambool (Vic.), Walter Jago, a year
or two back one of the best-known and best-
liked of Sydney scribes. He edited “Aussie.”
In Sydney, Herbert Priestley, 81, director of
many companies, foundation member of the In-
stitute of Chartered Accountants in Australia.
Sydney University’s Professor Priestley, M.D.,
is a son.
At Ballarat, at 87, Joseph Woods, for 50
years the mining city’s bellman and town
crier. The holidays he took were like the
proverbial busman’s —he was champion at many
local walking contests.
Walter Moore, a well-known Hobart figure,
formerly a civil engineer in many parts of the
world. His height and unusual, though always
immaculate, dress marked him out —he was a
bit high to fit into the trolley-bus that used
to convey him between the city and his suburban
home. His wife is portrait artist Florence
Rodway.
In Melbourne, Rev. Francis M. Bartolo, Pro-
fessor of Philosophy at the Carmelite Novitiate,
Mitcham. He was born at Malta, and was at
the National Eucharistic Congress in Melbourne
in 1934.
In Melbourne, “Col. H. H. Lees,” whose real
name was Ling. A strange character. For the
past 10 years he had worked for the unem-
ployed—a big crowd before the war. He
welded scattered and weak bands into a power-
ful mass, whose voice became loud and articu-
late ; even to scaring politicians and union
bosses. Ling got his “rank” in the Great War,
not as a soldier, but as an officer of the Pay
Corps, in which he was first accountant and
later chief inspector of accounts. He joined
Defence from the Commonwealth Audit Depart-
ment. He looked so much below his age
that those who knew him were astonished to
learn that he was 78 at the end.
In Brisbane, Theodore Frederick Barker,
general secretary of the Queensland Social
Service League. An old Maryborough (Q.)
Grammar boy, his life included journalism at
Longreach and Mt. Morgan, chairmanship of
Longreach Shire, directorship of Qantas and
partnership in Carter and Barker, stationers,
Brisbane. Two sons are abroad doing men’s
jobs.


Society
"AND IT'S PRINTED
WITH WIMBLES INKS"
“Wodgil”: The authorised account of
the epic of Timor mentions the gum-trees
and the ponies in that island. Both have
been familiar to Westralians for at least
a century, and for half a century or more
Timorese (cdlled Koepangers) labored in
and about Broome, in pearling luggers
for the most part. And Westralian min-
ing investors have, over many years,
turned up a lot of Timor soil. Oil was
the greatest attraction, and Jock Thom-
son, who stood for the Senate in 1914,
had a lot of Timor oil leases on his list,
as well as Yampi Sound iron-ore leases.
Options over the latter he sold to the
Queensland Labor Government when
that concern dreamed of knocking
B.H.P. out of time by establishing great
steelworks at Bowen. So Jock got some-
thing out of Yampi Sound, but the
money he put into Timor ground stayed
there.
* * * «
“A.S.F.”: The ways of Man-power are
past finding out. Its long arm reaches
into the Pacific, and in one case the
manager and labor were taken off a
rubber estate, with the result, of course,
that much of the young rubber will be
Ictet by cover-crop growth and inatten-
tion. At the same time rubber-tapping
has ceased, though this estate has
produced monthly shipments of rubber
for many years. But Man-power or some
other authority sent a circular letter to
another rubber estate warning the man-
ager to be very careful of his old motor
tyres as they would be required for scrap
rubber.
>r- * * *
“Chevroford”: My experience is that
the bicycle (B. 6/1/’43) has gone back
instead of forward. The contraption that
“And We're bound for • the Rio Grande!"
now carries me about on my lawful occa-
sions in place of the car laid up for the
duration is comparatively modern, but
it nearly broke my neck the first time
I tried it. Going down a steep incline
I instinctively started to back-pedal, only
to find that the freewheel lacked the
braking apparatus of the machine I last
rode (somewhere about 1911). I hadn’t
ridden a velocipede for 31 years, so it took
several weeks for ancient reflexes to be
reconditioned, and even now, when I
get into a crisis, such as turning a sharp
corner and being confronted by a China-
man fast asleep in his lorry on the wrong
side of the road, I instinctively revert to
pedal-pressure. It requires an intellectual
effort on my part to discard this anachro-
nistic method and reach for the hand
brake.
* * * «
“X.S.”; With 1203 petitions for divorce
last year, Victoria established a new
record in matrimonial disruption. Since
the proportion of divorces to marriages
(one to 450 in 1870 and one to 25 in
1940) looks likely to have been one to 20
in the year just departed, the State is
approaching the realisation of that condi-
tion which Bernard Shaw visualised in
“Getting Married,” wherein he advanced
costless divorce, without questions asked
or reasons given, as the solution of the
problem of the unhappy marriage. Shaw
forgot the most important factor, the
children. A man may have a just cause
of quarrel against his wife, but not
against his young children. An easy
divorce robs them of the love and affec-
tion of a father and justice is not served.
Shaw missed this aspect of the question.
He has no children.
* * * H=
“Ajax”: In the Wednesday “agony”
column of Adelaide “Advertiser”: “Jack,
I have been twitterpated over you ever
since that night we met at Mary’s, My
head is in a whirl. Please be twitterpated
over me and call me as soon as possible.
—Maud.” On Thursday another ap-
peared, this time Doris wishing it were
Valentine’s Day so she could tell Joe how
twitterpated she was about him. Friday
produced a t.p. Toni who had been walk-
ing on air since meeting Jean ; and on
Saturday morning Joyce was telling Ted
“If only you knew how twitterpated I am
about you.” Play was suspended for
the week-end with a score otf three t.p.
females to one t.p. Toni. Adelaide
waited atwitter for what the next week
would bring forth.
* * * *
“Pitt St.”: The Sydney afternoon press,
despite war-time restriction of flapper
advertising, still keeps its eye on its most-
valued reader. Every day there is a pic-
ture of a near-naked female, and the
slightest bit of feminine twaddle is
featured. One paper excelled itself on
the question of providing a hostel for
soldiers. For weeks it screamed about
their having to doss in parks, and called
down anathema on everybody from the
Army Minister to the Lud Mayor. Then
the authorities took over a big, partly un-
used building that’s been a bit of a white
elephant for years. Great news, and
better still when the lynx-eyed reporters
discovered a knitting firm in the com-
mandeered building. Next day the war-
worried city Was hit in the eye with “No
Pantees for W.A.A.F.S.”
* * * *
“Three Nines”: In a go-as-you-please
club a group was playing the poker-
machines. One of them drew out to
leave. The others chided him, trying to
get him to have another go. He clamped
his lips together firmly and firmly walked
to the door. To a couple standing there
he snorted “Another go, me foot! I done
fifteen quid on them machines last week.
Them fellers can’t kid me to be a nit-
wit!”
* * * *
“Avon”: As one of those youngsters
who banged a bucket with a wooden
spade and hoorayed vociferously when
the Sumner (M.L.) lifeboat Rescue made
its first trial trip well over 50 years ago,
I record with gratification its first really
big achievement, an event of last month.
Truth to tell, Sumner, though it lies near
the port of Lyttelton and has a treacher-
ous river bar to watch, hasn’t had many
wrecks to cope with. It is a sleepy little
seaside village, a haunt of yachtsmen and
“Rusty bayonet , eh—do you want to give somebody blood-poisoning?”
fishermen, and big ships know it not. But
Rescue 11, last word in motorised life-
boats, successor to the craft I assisted to
inaugurate, has justified her existence.
The 7000-ton steamer Kaiwarra went
ashore on Motunau Island, 40 miles north
of Sumner, and began to break up. Vari-
ous small craft attempted to take the
crew off but failed. Military engineers
failed to rig a breeches buoy. So Rescue
II got her chance at last. In a bleak
dawn she got all the stranded mariners
off the wreck and convoyed a flotilla of
ship’s boats, towed by motor craft, into
Lyttelton. It was a great day for Sumner.
The Mayor was a member of the lifeboat
crew.
sfc
“Hamfat”: Touching prop, revolvers.
One we carried with us when playing
“The Shamrock and the Rose” repeatedly
refused to speak its line at the right
moment, so, in that last-act scene when
the foiled villain rushed off the stage,
drawing from his pocket something that
looked like a revolver but might be a
knife, old Fitz was primed to alter
his line from “Good heavens! He
has shot himself!” to “Good heavens,
he has stabbed himself!” if the
weapon refused to supply its report.
Unfortunately Fitz was usually pretty
full by the last act; and this was
how his “fluffing” of the situation went
one night: “Good heavens, he has shot-
stabbed shot stabbed shot no,
stabbed himself!” But a resourceful
stagehand, noticing the hiatus, showed
initiative in supplying a very good shot
effect by banging a stick against the
“I made a mistake —he has shot him-
self!” Fitzgerald amended. The curtain
fell on more laughter than applause.
* ¥ * *
“Strict Veg.”: Man-power having de-
pleted the ranks of the official scavengers,
Lud Mayor Nettlefold launched a Clean
Up Your Own City campaign in
Melbourne. Results after two
days were scanty, so he made
the bright proposal that a prize
of £5 should be given each month
for a tram ticket carrying a cer-
tain number. This, he thought,
would induce tram-users to keep
their tickets. But Bell, chairman
of the Tramways Board, wearily
replied that he sold 28 million
tickets a month ; and that the
chance of a passenger drawing
one particular number would be
too long a shot to appeal to a
gambling - hardened nation. A
better suggestion is to clamp an
extra penny on to every fare
and turn it into a gigantic lot-
tery. Since the Tramways Board
collects upwards of £lOO,OOO a
month from its passengers the prizes
could be handsome, and to turn the profits
over to war funds would be a fine
patriotic gesture.
* * * *
“Adelaide”: A police-court case in
this city really deserves the term unique.
A married woman, not a Mohammedan,
was charged with “having been found in
the mosque without lawful excuse.” Liv-
ing next door to it, she had climbed
through a window merrily, and, on pro-
test by a resident Moslem (said to be
aged 105), had returned home the same
way, carrying a turban. Paying a 50s.
fine, she assured the Court “I’ll never
touch drink again.”
*** * ♦
“Lex”: J. H. M. Abbott’s article “The
Fat Liar” (B. 30/12/’42), recalling the
Tichborne case, reminds me that most
law students first make acquaintance with
this amazing trial when studying the law
of evidence. Aussie students are always
tickled by a reference in Best on Evidence
to “an attorney at Wagga Wagga in
Queensland.” The geographical error
has been carried into several editions.
* * * *
“Caballer”; “Proosia” for “Prussia”
(B. 23/12/’42), like the younger Weller’s
“veil” for “well,” was Southern English,
and I very much doubt if Nelson spoke
it. At-Burnham Thorpe they would speak
at the rapid rate of North Norfolk, and
the vowel sound in “gold” would be much
as we say it. It is a purely local dialect,
and 60 miles south Nelson’s fighting con-
temporary Sir Philip Brook, of Shannon
and Chesapeake fame, would have been
using the lazy Suffolk drawl, the slowest
speech in England. A hundred and fifty
years ago a dialect was confined to defi-
nitely marked borders. The “goold”
and “Proosia” cult was the speech of
the Corinthians of White’s and The Mall,
and a Norfolk-bred seaman would be
very unlikely to use it.
* * * * ’c
MARES’S MARGINS.
“Generally, last week’s weather was changeable,
varying from warm to cold and from dry to wet.”
— N-.8.W. meteorological report.
I like this weather record, 1 confess,
Its airy sweep-, its pleasant spaciousness.
How it recalls those tips, in days pre-war,
We used to scan the morning papers for,
Phrased with an art the Delphic oracle
For ambiguity could scarce excel,
Forecasts that never could be counted quite
Wrong, though they seldom proved entirely
right.
Somewhere, somewhen, last week ’twas fairly
hot;
At other times and places it,was not.
Days there were when old Sol was soundly
cursed
And foaming schooners failed to slake your
thirst;
And then again came weather of the sort.
When one would crave “a drop of something
short,”
And fancies were diverted, yours and hers,
From shorts to sweaters and from slacks to furs.
Times there were when, in country and in town,
“The low clouds shook their garnered fullness
down.”
Game others when long hours of arid heat
Shrivelled the rolling plain and scorched the
street.
And pretty nearly ev’rything between
These two extremes was felt, endured and
seen—
And noted, to their credit, by our wise
Seers of the seasons, students of the skies.
Through what climatic changes have we. sped—
Alpha to Omega or A to Z
In one brief week, bare fraction of the time
It takes in many a less well-favored clime!
What other land is there with this compares,
Where —I assume I’m quoting Mr. Mares—
Whatever weather from aloft we get
Varies from warm to cold, from dry to wet?
N.S.W.
MIDFORD.
HOW CAN THEY?
“How can Cabinet Ministers like Mr. Ward and
Senator Cameron decently remain in the Government,
and thus share the responsibility for enforcing a form
of conscription of which they have professed abhor-
rence.” — “8. M. Herald.”
A fair inquiry, this, admittedly, |
A simple point in.ethics that is set one
To solve. But if we wait for a reply
I'm very doubtful whether you or I
Will ever get one.
These twain know why they’re doing what they
do,
You may be sure. But I suspect their native
Caution imposes on them a taboo.
Prohibits them, in short, from being too
Communicative.
When strong convictions in the scales you weigh,
Slogans from scores of soapboxes you’ve
shouted,
Against a solid hunk of place and pay,
It’s easy, when you know your men, to say
Which will be outed.
A change of mind need earn no man the spike.
Though, dubbed apostates, weaker souls have
faltered,
’Tis better some such note as this to strike:
“Those were my sentiments, but, if you like,
They can be altered.”
They needs must eat words they were wont to
say
And wallop what were erst their cherished
josses,
For nobody should know as well as they
What fate awaits the chaps who won’t obey
The Union Bosses.
Inevitably they must acquiesce,
Nor is it any good to raise a rumpus.
It’s clear, whatever be the strain and stress,
They stand to lose their cushy jobs unless
They box the compass.
N.SAV.
T. THE R.


“Tuart”: I shall be sorry when the
tide of battle moves beyond Velikiye
Luki. Not because I have any romantic
interest in Velikiye Luki but because of
the gusto with which the broadcasting
gents pronounce the name. Some call
it “Veleekee Loukee” ; others “Veleekay
Loukye” ; all get their tongues round it
with obvious relish. I suppose it must
be a relief to come to a place like that
after a chap has done his best with Pro-
jetschje, Stawischtsche, Borissogljebsk,
Tschjurjukowa and Swjatotroizkoje ; so
here’s to Veleekee (or Veleekay) Loukee
(or Loukye), and long may it wave!
* * * *
“Cauboy”: Time brings its revenges.
A year or so ago a lone Australian
soldier, after incredible adventures,
washed up on the nor’-west coast of Aus-
tralia and the usual wandering corre-
spondent remarked on his beard, which,
according to him, gave the soldier a most
“unmartial” appearance. Now the dailies
are being flooded with photographs of
Timor fighters with ziffs like Brahms,
Tennyson and Ned Kelly. Inasmuch as
these pictures accompany accounts of
deeds of daring that haven’t been ex-
ceeded in this or any other war, it looks
as if beards will hereafter be associated
in the public mind with heroism and en-
durance, as they were after the Crimean
war* and that the Clark Gables and
Robert Taylors of the screen will sprout
face foliage a yard long.
» * * *
“S.T.S.”: The usual big crowd gathered
at Glenelg (S.A.) on Dec. 28 to celebrate
the province’s 106th birthday. The offi-
cial luncheon has gone the war-time way
of all banquets, but Governor Barclay-
Harvey and Attorney-General Jeffries
once more raised the flag and said appro-
priate things at Admiral Hindmarsh’s old
gum-tree (long since dead), which is, how-
ever, an uncomfortable distance from the
beach. A roll-call at the Town Hall,
which is at the beach, was signed by
pioneers going back a long way—in one
or two cases nearly to Foundation Day.
* * * *
“Hamer”: Though Sydney had no
“penny parlors” in the ’eighties it didn’t
lack entertainment of that variety. An
all-the-week fair aligned itself with
Paddy’s Market, to which circuses
attached themselves when they visited
Sydney. There were three waxworks
(one in George-street, near Park-street,
lasted for 30 years), and shooting-gal-
leries sprouted everywhere. There was
also, besides the regular Zoo, then at
Moore Park, another at the St. Joseph
Banks pub at Botany, with sideshows and
sporting events as adjuncts. Heaven
knows how Sydney, pop. 100,000, kept
the lot going. Certainly it took them
with plenty of liquid refreshment, for
those were the days when every street
corner had its pub—many street inter-
sections had one on each corner —and
there were several in between corners.
Eight beer houses stood on the short
strip of Pitt-street between King and
Market streets, for instance.
* * * ♦
“C.Q.”: After the war Melbourne
City Council proposes to erect a sym-
bolical statue to Peace. It is out of tune
with the times. I suggest the immediate
erection of a statue to the most patriotic
citizen in the city. He put war savings
certificates in the Christmas pudding.
* * * *
“Craiser”; Are we air-minded? The
teacher in a Melbourne suburban State
school was putting the class through a
physical geography lesson. “What is a
cyclone?” she asked. “Please, miss, it’s
an aeroplane engine,” shouted one young
hopeful. “Nonsense,” said the teacher.
“A cyclone is a system of wipds circu-
lating about a centre of relatively low
barometric pressure. It is a typhoon,
tornado, whirlwind or hurricane.” “Well,
they’re all aeroplanes, too,” retorted the
pupil.
* * * *
“F.S.”: It is a strange coincidence
that Churchill and Hitler should both be
painters and that both should have ex-
pressed a wish similar to that of Wolfe
before Quebec concerning Gray’s “Elegy.”
I have it on the authority of a friend who
has seen them and is competent to have
an opinion that Hit’s paintings are dreary
and conventional, whereas Churchill’s
are fresh and full of observation
far above the average: he obviously
loved doing them, as do most self-taught
artists. At any rate, they impressed
Wilson Steer, the watef-colorist who has
just died in England. One day 15 years
ago he happened to be in a picture-
framer’s shop and saw,him framing two
pictures. “Who painted them?” he asked.
“Winston Churchill,” said the shopman.
“Well,” said Steer, “if Winston Churchill
can paint like that he ought to give up
politics and stick to painting.”
* * * *
“R.T.” on an obscure sect:
“S.T.S. V’ reference to Bah’ai-ullah (B.
23/12/’42') 'reminds me of a visit to the Persian
Gardens near Acre. The gardens, very formal,
mainly topiarised shrubs with very few
flowers, surround an imposing house which is
the tomb of Bah’ai-ullah. He founded the
religion known as Bahai. The caretaker guide
who showed us around explained that the
numerous bedrooms opening away from the
tomb were reserved for the use of the faithful
who come from the four corners. 'Bah’ai-ullah
came from Persia, where he and his devotees
were persecuted in the nineteenth century, and
now has adherents in Australia, M.L., England
and America. Photographs on the walls
showed a most imposing temple in Chicago and
an Australasian gathering of the clan in Sydney.
Also there was a delightful picture of a Bahai
having iron rods hammered into his interior by
Persian Moslems. There are many Bahais in
Haifa, their spiritual head being the daughter
of the founder, and an attractive small park
halfway up Mount Carmel has been dedicated
to the city by them. Couldn’t find out what
the principles of Bahai were, but when we
were leaving the caretaker did not ask for bak-
sheesh and refused to accept it, so the religion
seems to have one noteworthy and unique
feature.
* * * *
“Cauboy”: A pianist friend has no
use for critics. He says: “When 1
read criticisms of my performances it
seems to me just as if a man got hold of
a book for the first time and started
analysing a sentence. ‘Here’s a noun —
and, look, here’s another! And here’s
a verb! And there’s an adjective! And
isn’t that a preposition? Or is it a con-
junction? And, by gad, sir! Here’s an-
other noim! Isn’t it marvellous?’ Most
musical criticism is of that childlike order.
What is obvious and elementary to the
practising musician seems to the critic
“Look, Monty, aspidistras!”
new, exciting and profound; and the
only difference between him and the
average citizen is that he has a capacity
for expressing himself in long words and
sounding phrases.”
Jfc ‘ % ♦ sfc #
“Hamer”: The obituary of a nona-
genarian mentioned that “up to 20 years
ago he took a great interest in model-
yacht racing, acted as secretary of one
of the leading clubs and was a com-
mitteeman of the association.” That
sounds like an obit, also of a pleasant and
once very popular sport. At one time
there were five clubs in Sydney, and some
of the models sailed were masterpieces.
Lake Kippax in Moore Park was a pretty
sight on Saturday and Sunday afternoons
when the mainly elderly enthusiasts, pants
rolled to their knees, sailed their models.
Other clubs chose the shallower head-
waters of Middle Harbor and Parramatta
bays. The illustrated papers made a
splash of the opening of the model-yacht
racing season, and “S. M, Herald”
gave the clubs half a column every week.
The sport died out when the growth of
motoring provided new interests.
* * * *
“Lao-dah”: Bernard Shaw recently
prophesied that the universal language of
the future would be the commercial Eng-
lish produced by the Chinese (the most
civilised people in the world, according to
G. 8.5.), which has a minimum of gram-
mar and has that much advantage
over academic English in the eyes of
foreigners. This new lingo should not be
confused with “pidgin” , English, which
naturally arose from the Englishman’s
reluctance to learn any language but his
own, so that his servants and coolies had
to evolve a strange sort of jargon which
is just as difficult for the beginner to
learn as any other language. The new
language Shaw speaks of was deliberately
compiled by educated and cultivated
Chinese who had done the same to their
own picture-writing, reducing it from
45,000 characters to 1000. Nevertheless,
the real pidgin is extraordinarily expres-
sive. Phrases like “Number one joss
pidgin man” may sound ridiculous to a
man from Oxford, but they are just as
descriptive as our word “archbishop”—
in fact, a bit more so.
* * * *
“Avon”: One of the results of the
transmigration of the Maori from lati-
tudes nearer the Equator is a tendency to
take philosophical and religious matters
more seriously than is the case in warmer
islands. Before the white men came there
were tohungas, of a harsh and vengeful
flavor, ingenious in the devising of new
taboos and of terrible punishments for
transgressions. The first teachers of Chris-
tianity, not all so understanding as Selwyn
and Marsden, were sometimes astonished,
indeed disconcerted, at the literalness with
which the tenets they expounded were
accepted. Since those first days of
proselytism there has uprisen, every now
and then, a Maori prophet or messiah,
claiming divine inspiration. Latest case
of the kind had a short, sad history. A
Maori named Rahu Reihana, of the Taupo
district, declared he was God and had
power to execute divine vengeance on
all who offended him. His claims raised
a family row, the police were called in
to perform an eviction and were resisted.
A stronger force, including military
police, was sent, and there was a fight in
which Rahu was killed and several other
Maoris and some policemen were in-
jured, Five brothers of Rahu, arrested,
pleaded guilty to resisting the police and
said they were “seized with a feeling they
could not understand.” All the Maori
prophets and messiahs and their followers
seem to have that experience.
* * * *
“Cook’s Mate” on the versatility of
the great explorer:
James Cook’s discoveries in the South Seas
loom so large in relation to all other events
of his life that the latter are hardly ever re-
membered, but he did much besides finding
continents and archipelagos. For nine years
he served in Whitby colliers, learning the whole
duty of a seaman in a rough school, and he
joined the Royal Navy (in 1755) possibly better
equipped to meet its many demands than most
of his contemporaries. For three years he
served with the Channel Fleet, taking part in
numerous engagements, of which the only
records available are the logs of his ship. In
1758 he sailed to Canada in the fleet commanded
by Admiral Boscawen (“Old Dreadnought”),
but all that is known about his exploits in
North American waters is that he did exception-
ally fine work, before Wolfe’s capture of
Quebec, in sounding the St. Lawrence and
drawing charts showing its difficulties and
dangers and the chances of successful attack
on the French stronghold defended by Mont-
calm. It was Cook’s map-reading and marine
survey work during this period of his career
that eventually led to his choice by the
Admiralty to command H.M.S. Endeavour on
the voyage that lifted him to his place amongst
the great navigators of all time.
* * * *
“Ologist”: Becoming quite the vogue
is the slangism “smart aleck.” How
should it be written and printed? The
Bulletin prints it so, but when my eye
strikes it in other papers and in manu-
script (and I have an intimate acquaint-
ance with newspaper copy) the “aleck” is
almost invariably printed with a capital
A, as are the also-used “Alec” and
“Alick.” Until the just-published Every-
man’s English Dictionary reached Aus-
tralia the only dictionary listing of the
expression I could find was in Webster’s
New International. In this it is printed
“smart aleck” (defined as “a cheaply
clever, bumptious fellow”), and both
noun and adjective (“smart-alecky”) ,
described as “ Colloq ., U.S.” Ever ,
man’s, however, uses the capital A. Bu.
the English publication, which reduces
the definition of the slangism to the one
word “know-all,” also acknowledges its
American origin. It would be interest-
ing, therefore, to learn Everyman’s
reason for running counter to the Ameri-
can work, whose expert lexicographers,
being on the spot, would have every
means to track down the term to its
source and every qualification to decide
the form in which it (whether derived
from a proper noun or not) should be
written and printed. It seems to me that
Webster’s should be accepted as the
authority on the matter. But why make
a fetish of the expression? Wouldn’t
“smarty” or “know-all” serve just as
well?
* * * *
“Melbn”: With inevitable unorigi-
nality the Government has rushed to
official circles to assist it in arousing the
nation, and now we have university pro-
fessors, officers of public relations, A.B.C.
commentators and parsons boring us to
extinction with their exhortations. It
has been my misfortune to be obliged to
read through and listen to millions of
words of their propaganda, but up to date
I haven’t yet come across anything so
apt or expressive as a slogan chalked up
by a small boy on a factory wall in
Footscray: “Hitler Pongs and Stinks!”
The professors, parsons and
commentators haven’t pro-
duced anything anywhere near
as hearty and effective for all
their education.
* * *
“J.H.M.A.”: News of Ameri-
can troops landing in Fiji re-
calls the fact that it was only
very reluctantly the British
took over the group 67 years
ago. When Napoleon lit
grabbed New Caledonia for
France in 1853 Downing-
street made no objection, and
didn’t consider a possibility of
any from Australia; and in
1859 it refused the offer of
Fijian chiefs to become a
Brit i sh Protectorate. The
group wasn’t close enough to
the route from Panama to
Sydney, it was said, and Britain
could do without naval stations
in the islands so long as she
had them in Australia. But
when the Queensland labor
trade began to demoralise all
the South Seas, Fiji suffered
more than any other group,
and its cotton plantations were
soon full of kidnapped
Kanakas who had been kept
out of Queensland. The thing
became almost a scandal, and
it was hinted that other nations
might interfere if Britain
wouldn’t take any steps. Her-
cules Robinson, then Gov-
ernor of N. S. Wales, prevailed at
last upon the Home Government to
regard annexation as the least evil of
several possibilities, and in the last
months of 1875 the Fiji Islands became
a Crown colony. Then at length Britain
woke up to the necessity of securing its
position in the Western Pacific, and some-
thing like the present arrangement in the
islands came into being.
* * * *
“Spokeshave”: Girls who offer to sell
kisses for charity must be lacking in the
instinct of self-preservation. The pro-
tective instinct is lacking in parents who,
while disgusted if they see a little smudge
of clean dirt on the face of a perfectly
healthy infant, don’t mind the same infant
being kissed and fondled by friends and
even strangers who may be suffering from
infectious diseases. An intelligent medico
put the matter in a nutshell when a friend
of mine told him he had been horrified
when his baby snatched up a piece of
meat that had been half-eaten by his dog
and swallowed it with every manifestation
of enjoyment. “Well,” said the doctor,
“I would sooner a child of mine ate after
a dog than after some of my patients.”
* * * *
“L. de R.”; I agree that women wear
high heels (B. 30/12/’42) because of
fashion; but something must have
started the fashion. I suggest that they
wanted, not to make their feet look
smaller, but to make their figures look
taller. Why they should envy men their
more elongated stature is a mystery in-
asmuch as the tallest man isn’t as tall as
a giraffe, just as the swiftest human swim-
mer is slow compared with a shark. But
so it is ; and the desire is still manifested
consciously in the ballet, where it is some-
how regarded as delectable and charm-
ing if a ballerina, after years of exhaust-
ing and painful practice, is able to upend
herself and totter ridiculously about on
her tiptoes.


ABORIGINALITIES
“Zake”; Jacky was up before the Beak
charged with having goods in his posses-
sion reasonably suspected of having been
stolen, to wit, three brand-new picks, sans
handles. The storekeeper had lost three
from inside his door. Jacky stuck to his
original assertion that while he was sit-
ting on the bank of the river they had
floated in. He repeated his tale several
times, and then the Beak lost his block.
“Don’t tell such unmitigated lies!” he
roared. “Picks can’t float.” The boong
wriggled his toes and looked bland. “Not
on their own,” he conceded earnestly.
“But y’ see, bawss, these were tied up
in a sugar bag!”
* * * *
“Louden": On dinner camp newchum
unwrapped a soft confection that he’ci
brought with him and threw the cello-
phane wrap away. It blew along the
ground for some distance and stopped
against a small thistle. Sticking to the
centre of the wrap was a small piece ol
the lolly. Presently a crow dropped ou(
of a gum near by to investigate, walking
around the thistle and eyeing the lolly
speculatively. Finally deciding it was fit
for corvine consumption, Kelly snapped
it up and, turning into the wind, took of
in flight. Immediately the edges of the
cellophane closed round his head. Emit-
ting a succession of raucous “Ahs,” he
mounted swiftly and, keeping head on
into the wind, lit out for distant parts
Attracted by his cries, other crows were
quickly a-wing and coming towards
him. Soon the western sky was almost
obscured by corybantic croakers follow-
ing their hooded brother.
* * *
“Theo D. Lite”: • “Narrin” (B.
23/12/’42) is dead right about the immu-
nity of diver-ducks to .22 bullets. The
old theory was that it was due to the
wide-angle lenses on their oscillatory
periscope which allowed them to pick
up the flash of the rifle and to crash-dive
before the bullet reached them. How-
ever, as they seem to escape even at
extremely short range, I am inclined to
think that “Trace Chain” (B. 11/ 11/’42>
inadvertently gave the solution. The
truth is that birds and reptiles are very
closely related, and the little blighters
borrow the armor-plating from their
uncles, the alligator-crocodile crosses
known in some parts as goannas. The
diving is only to wash off the particles
of lead lightly adhering from the ricochet.
* * * *
“Bohemian”: When Dr. Van der Bias
(of the whiskers) and Dutch delegates
visiting M.L. paid a visit to the Franz
Joseph Glacier, they were introduced to
a tame kea, who ate out of their hands.
Guide Peter Graham defended the kea
against charges of sheep-killing. In all
his years in the mountains, he said, he
had never seen a kea attack a sheep or
a lamb. Said Graham: “I have inter-
viewed sportsmen alleged to have seen
such attacks, but they always refer me
to someone else.” It was Walter Buller
who first accused the keas of sheep-
killing. He reckoned it was an uncon-
scious act. In winter the kea burrows
beneath the snow for food, and seeing
the sheep lying down confuses wool with
snow. But neither Buller nor those who
have repeated his accusation have been
able to produce absolutely satisfactory
evidence on the subject.
* * * *
“Avon”: Maoriland, to complicate its
war-time problems, has had more than
a fair share of earthquakes during the
last year. Shocks in June cracked walls
and brought chimneys and parapets
crashing down in Wellington and other
N.I. towns, and just as plans for repair-
ing that damage were complete there
came another bad shake on August 2,
result of which was to undermine confi-
dence, as it were, in all city buildings
not of the latest steel-and-concrete con-
struction. In December again came a
severe tremor, and for the first time in
M.L. history there was evidence that
these manifestations were getting on
people’s nerves. “A number of shop
assistants and others were sent home
suffering from nervous shock,” says a
Wellington newspaper. Possibly the
present generation is less inured to such
trials than its predecessors. I remember
taking over an office apartment on the
sixth floor of a M.L. building. Outgoing
colleague drew my attention to the lofty
ceiling and two electric lights on very
long cords. “Those are my seismic
gauges,” he said. “When they swing out
more than 60 degrees it’s time to get
going.”
** * * *
“Nakhoda”: An Australian pilot-
officer who parachuted into the New
Guinea jungle and hobbled into a village
with a wounded foot gives an interesting
sidelight on native medicine. He was
taken to an old chap, apparently held in
veneration, who took off his boots and
put a mash of weeds and water on the
foot, making curious passes the while
and muttering incantations. The airman
thought it looked and sounded like a lot
of bunk, but in a quarter of an hour his
foot became easier. Reminds me of an
occasion when a native witch-doctor on
“You know, I suppose, there's a heavy penalty for absenteeism."
a Bornean island helped to deliver the
baby of a white planter’s young wife who
was beside herself with terror. Com-
pletely ignorant of obstetrics, the planter
was at his wit’s end until the old boy
arrived and, full of confidence, took over.
The “doctor” muttered, or rather howled,
the customary incantations, but, in addi-
tion, ordered every box, drawer and
closed receptacle in the bungalow to be
opened, the planter to empty out his
pockets and even to take his trousers off
and don a sarong. Then he took a hair
out of the expectant mother’s head and
blew “through” it. A few minutes later
the baby was painlessly delivered. Magic?
No, just good “beside manner,” as with
any European doctor. The white men —I
was one of them —conveyed to the patient
their utter lack of belief in themselves in
relation to the situation, and she ex-
pressed her feeling of insecurity by
screaming. If they hadn’t been there she
would probably have had her baby with-
out the slightest trouble, like most native
women.
* * if if
“Theo D. Lite”: “Esk D.” (B.
23 /12/’42) argues much like the China-
man who saw a Thames waterman stand-
ing with his wooden leg in the water and
concluded that in England one-legged
men are kept for this purpose to save
footwear from getting wet. The damage
done to the belt of an engine has no
connection whatsoever with the type of
power which operates it. If a circular
saw is suddenly stopped by feeding a log
in too fast or by jamming it sideways,
the whole of the stored energy in the
engine at the moment of stoppage, plus
the small extra amount put in during
demolition, is applied to and dissipated in
the belt to its great and manifest dis-
advantage. If “E.D.” wants a really
graphic picture of the destruction which
follows instantaneous stoppage, Kipling’s
story in The Day’s Work of what hap-
pened to the engine of an old tramp
steamer is well worth studying.
* * * *
“Pardon Me”: A horse doesn’t
remember any place for years (B.
30 /12 / ’42). If a horse gets a fright at
a certain place and later gets another
fright, or successive frights, at the same
place it simply means that the same cir-
cumstances which gave the horse the
original fright have been repeated. A
horse “recognises” a gateway by its smell,
and it is the scent of the district they
were reared in that calls wandering nags
back home. If horses possessed the
faculty of recollection (memory)—which
is based on concentration —that faculty
would have been exploited years ago by
Nature’s greatest exploiter—man. The
elephant never forgets simply because it
has nothing to forget. “Memory” in
animals is non-existent. The ordinary
animal lives in a world of smells, a world
in which even sight and hearing are of
secondary value. The “smellorection” of
animals is their faculty for recollection.
* * * *
“Marmalade”: The not-so-bright youth
had landed a job on old Comeback’s
drought-stricken farm. “And on y’r way
down to the back paddock,” the boss told
him the first morning, “pull out any dead
sheep y’ find in the clam.” Returning at
sundown the youth informed him, “Found
a big ram bogged to the eyes this morn-
in’, boss.” “Strike me! ” yelled old Come-
back. “Me hundred-guinea Bungaree!”
Then he relaxed. “Thank heaven y"
hauled him out in time, son.” The
n.s.b.y. gaped at him. “But I didn’t
say I pulled him out,” he said. “Y’ see,
he wasn’t what y’ might call properly
dead.”
* * * *
“Betcha”; No, “Oak Eye” (B.
23 /12/’42), in certain circumstances I
don’t consider it a mistake to warn a
newchum with wormy lambs that his
pasture is too poor. • For, if wormy lambs
are put on a sheep-skin paddock, they
soon become potbellied little runts with-
out the resistance against worms, etc.,
that they’d build up on richer country.
In such condition they are easy prey to
most ailments. A series of good drench-
ings and a shift to a better paddock are
the remedy. You’re right about worms
flourishing in lush and squashy pasture,
but with richer feed and stronger sheep
my experience is that one hasn’t the same
trouble combating the established pest.
Anyone troubled with worms only on
lush pasture can count himself lucky,
for round these East Gippsland parts, at
least, the only safeguard is regular doses
of the right stuff from late spring through
to autumn, irrespective of the pasture.
Sheep feed is a debatable point, but with
a belt of rough hill to spell ’em in give
me the richer pastures with a percentage
of clover and I’ll tackle the pulpy kidney,
the photosensitisation and, in wet seasons,
the few extra worms.
' * * Vi! *
“Butcher-bird”: A cow-cocky neigh-
bor came to me about a heifer which
had injured its back the previous day and
was still unable to get on its feet. As 30
hours had passed the chap was resigned
to the fact that it was a “goner,” and
offered it to me for beef. When my
slaughterman eventually arrived he was
shown the crippled beast and decided to
kill on the spot. Standing a few feet in
front of the heifer he began steeling his
knife, and immediately that animal
struggled to its feet and made towards
the rest of the herd. About 20 yardj
along it went down, but on the approach
of the butcher managed to regain its
standing position and went off with in-
creasingly confident step. As the heifer
has been tiptop ever since, it had
evidently been just a ricked back which
righted itself under queer circumstances.
* * * *
“Esk D.”; Many a redgum or other
eucalypt along the Murray owes its exis-
tence to some angler who set a springer
to catch a night-prowling cod. If the
stake is cut from young and vigorous
stock the shoots will soon appear,
usually to wilt and die, but if conditions
are favorable the cutting will take root
and a new tree is born. The same applies
sometimes to fruit-tree prunings. I pick
good fruit from a massive plum that had
such a start in life, and the stake from
which it sprang was upside-down. No,
we don’t have to sink a shaft and stope
the fruit out; the tree is normal in every
respect.
* * * *
“Louden”: Tell “Naturala” (B.
23 /12/’42) that about 50 Australian
ducklings (black, wood and teal) were
reared and fattened in the ordinary way
in the poultry pound on a Riverina station
property a few years ago. In the very
wet latter-end of the summer wild ducks
nested almost everywhere in the timbered
pastures on that run. The 50 were caught
in the flapper stage against the netting in
a small paddock and were taken only
because they would have fallen victims
to foxes or hawks, both fairly numerous
at the time.
* * * *
“Irishtown”: After one of the big
floods that sometimes sweep The Heart
morass in Gippsland, 35 sheep were miss-
ing and given up for lost. Eight weeks
later a swan-egger, prowling through
some thick scrub, came across the survi-
vors, stranded on the small bumps that
form around the roots of ti-trees, from
which all the bark had been chewed
away, and still surrounded by 3ft. to 4ft.
of water. Eight were still living, just bones
and wool, so light that they were carried
out in twos in a bag on a man’s back.
All but one recovered.
* * * *
“R.H.G.”: After exhaustive (and ex-
hausting) study, I claim the following;
A true right-handed man will use his cun-
ning hand to guide the implement he is
using—if a shovel, then the left hand
takes the load, with the right hand in the
D. With an axe —and here’s the other
leg of the argument—his right hand grips
the end of the handle, with left hand near
the blade, as with a shovel, but he chops
from the left, and, with an overhand cut,
swings over to the right without changing
his grip. With a standing chop, he would
put his first scarf in from the left, and
then change his grip, to put the falling
cut in from the right.
% * ♦ *
“Old Camp”: The present scarcity of
beer and aerated waters recalls how easy
it is, given the right combination of cir-
cumstances, to lay the foundation of a
fortune. Bayley-street, Coolgardie, in the
summer of 1897 was currently held to be
a suburb of Hades. With ice scarce the
beer was warm, and only a soak wanted
to go drinking it as frequently as the
temperature urged. So with his last
couple of quid an ex-Port Melbourne
Hebrew invested in a four-gallon water-
bag, a case of lemons and a lemon-
squeezer, and a dozen large glasses.
Hanging the full waterbag to one of the
few remaining trees left standing in Cool-
gardie’s main throughfare he started re-
tailing lemon squash, 6d. a glass. Even
counting the sugar there was 100 p.c.
profit in it. Inside a couple of weeks he
had shifted into a shop. Within two years
he had “squash” shops in Kalgoorlie and
Boulder. Growing financially bigger and
bigger “Squash” donned the “bag” at the
frequent race meetings. Bigger still, he
floated “Goldfields Tattersall’s” in imita-
tion of and opposition to “Westralian
Tattersall’s,” run and drawn in Perth.
And all the time kept the squash shops
going, though by now he had a hundred
imitators and competitors. Yet in the
end he died broke— though that’s another
Story,
EL ALAMEIN.
These men who died far on a foreign shore
Once loved to swim, and lie
While the rich, hot sun soaked to the body’s
core
From a blue Australian sky.
Coogee and Manly knew them; in the south.
Chiton and Petrel Cove,
And Goolwa’s breakers by the Murray mouth;
Now laid quiet above
An older sea, by foreign winds caressed,
They feel nor wind nor sun:
Strong swimmers come to their last rest,
They sleep under strange skies, their battle
won.
But, if they stir in dream,
Surely that blue expanse, edged with white
foam,
Those sandhills stirred by sea-winds, cannot
seem
So very far from home.
S.A,
NANCY CATO.


"You poor dear, I daresay you've been peeling potatoes most of the time."
“Old-timer”; Light had come to
Mallee Hen, in the form of a new air-gas
lamp bought by Botfly Harris, our store-
keeper, a gentle sort of bloke who per-
sisted in regarding his worst enemies as
his best friends and was as happy as a
kid with a new top over that lamp.
“Don’t fergit t’ be in town Saterdee night
f’r me new lamp ; it’ll make the street
look like day,” was his invitation to the
whole district; and the whole district,
which loved Botfly and had never seen
anything but kerosene lights in the town’s
50-yards-long street, was there. There
must have been 200 citizens in and around
the store when dusk deepened into night
and Botfly, as important as a politician
opening a bazaar, brought out his step-
ladder, placed it under the new lamp,
climbed up, fiddled with the thing,
pumped it and gave it a final wipe over
with a clean rag. Then, with every eye
on him, Botfly reached down, took the
lighted taper from his offsider and
applied it to the mantle. A wondrous
bright star came to life, its glow lighting
up the faces of the crowd and falling
on the upturned, shining countenance of
Botfly as he stood on the steps in a sort
of holy trance. Then from out the wail
of darkness something hummed, there
was a crash, black gloom fell on the
scene and those nearest Botfly caught him
as he fell from the steps, his face littered
with bits of glass and smoking mantle.
All the rest of that night maddened citi-
zens sought a boy with a shanghai in
vain, not because of Botfly’s offer of a
fiver for his capture, but because they,
too, had been shaken to their boots by
the dreadful anti-climax.
# * * »
“Naturala”: Australia is unique as a
continent in that practically every im-
portation, animal, bird, insect, plant,
ousts and in many cases kills off the
native forms. It began with the intro-
duction of the white man, and the latest
interloper is Kikuyu grass. Perth first
knew it as a few stems in the grassy
northern bank of the Swan River. It
climbed to King’s Park, that 1000 acres
in the heart of Perth that was to have
been kept as a preserve for native plants
and flowers for all time. Each season now
sees the grass devouring an ever-increas-
ing number of acres, smothering every
native plant that stands in its path. Even
the sturdy kangaroo-paws seem unable
to compete.
IK * * *
“Old Camp”: Maybe my luck was out,
but I never struck that Coolgardie dysen-
tery cure retailed in W.A. pubs at two
bob the nip (B. 9/12/’42). Bung’s offer-
ing in my experience was port wine and
brandy, a pleasing medicine and in many
cases very effective. From the store-
keeper and the chemist we got chloro-
dyne. When unable to obtain either of
those the bushwhacker fell back on the
standard remedy of half a cup of water
thickened with plain flour. Generally it
cured. Knew of goldfield doctors success-
fully ti'eating most violent cases of dysen-
tery with doses of raw cornflour in com-
bination with ooium. Opium is the really
infallible remedy, proved in India, where
redcoats often died like flies during an
epidemic.
* * * *
“Woikitoff”: Do the spags out “Nar-
rin’s” way suffer from congenital lazi-
ness (B. 6/1 /’43)? He talks of one “flat
out on the tail of a large white moth
which drifted [yes, drifted! ] lightly down-
wind,” and says other spags joined the
hunt, which went out of sight. A spag
that couldn’t catch a moth deserves to
starve. Hang it, I catch moths in flight
myself so long as they aren’t beyond
jumping reach, and you ought to see the
missus smack them down over her garden.
She’s no sparrow.
* * * *
“Hawk Eye”: Sometimes I wonder if
Percy Lindsay has dropped on to what
the ancients spent gold, blood and tears
trying to discover, and has the alchemist’s
stone of perpetual life hidden somewhere
about his Puckish person. I’ve seen a
lot of artists come and go in the old
red-covered rag, but P.L. is still with us.
So you’ll understand that it’s more in
sorrow than in anger that I ask, anent
that Waaaf or Awas scrubbing the
messroom floor (B. 6/1/’43) and re-
marking that she’ll never go back to
housework, what she has just got
back from. Percy needn’t tell me she
hasn’t been out all night; she’s forgotten
to change her stilt-heeled dancing shoes.
* * * *
“Bo”: Bissell, long, sawny, silent and
a hog for work, brought a city bride to
his unfenced and uncleared block out
from Uptaputty, slung together a bough-
and-hessian shack and got into the grub-
bing and burning off, all on his own. The
only times he saw his helpmeet were
mealtimes, and by the end of a 15-hour
day he never felt up to breaking his
wonted taciturnity. Then one day four
months later he came home to a wifeless
habitation. He rode over in haste to
his neighbor five miles away. Nobody
there had seen Mrs. B. Eventually a big
search party was organised and the dense
bush in the district tooth-combed, but
no trace of her resulted. She had just
vanished into the silence of the bush.
Lone and lorn, Bissell returned to his
clearing and ploughing. But there was a
change in his habits, for instead of tear-
ing in as usual on Sunday afternoons he
devoted them to searching the circum-
ambient bush with Peggy, the black and
tan bitch. After three years he had
covered about 20 square miles in every
direction, still confident that he would
pick up some clue to the lady’s disappear-
ance, when a fencer, passing that way
again, told Bissell he had seen Mrs. B. in
Newcastle a few weeks before with the
dam-sinker who had camped near the
Bissell property a few years back. On
receipt of these tidings Bissell sank down
on his verandah a picture of utter dejec-
tion. The fencer dropped a hand on his
shoulder. “I’m sorry, old man. It’s
tough on you, I know, but after all, a
man’s well shot of a missus like that.”
Bissell looked up, sheer hopelessness in
his eye. “It’s orright for you,” he said,
“but how the hell’s Peggy an’ me goin’
to fill in our Sunday afternoons now!”
“Solitude"': We came on a ’roo feeding,
not far from the home yards. Deciding it
was the animal that had been hanging
round his camp the last few nights,
Sevenlyfiver gave chase. Manfully he
drew alongside the big hopper, and for
some yards galloped abreast. Then,
watching, I saw him wrench off one
stirrup-leather and start swinging the iron
viciously while he edged his nag in close.
A terrific lunge, then a patch of scrub
got mixed up in my line of vision, but
a few seconds later I spied the Too hop-
ping calmly over a far ridge. After a bit
the old bloke rode into the yards and
dismounted. His jaw was set and his
eyes glinted dangerously, but I decided
to risk it. “Why didn’t you hit him?”
I inquired innocently. He limped to a
log and began rolling up the leg of his
pants. I repeated my query. “Well, how in
Hades,” he bellowed savagely, “was / to
know the flamin’ thing was going to duck?”
* * * *
“Fielder”: You can have your gidya
and dead-finish, but for cut wood (B.
30/12/’42) give me the native she-oak.
Felled green, barked or unbarked, it
holds its burning value for months. Fires
of it last longer than other timber, give
a strong heat and fine glowing coal. In
the old days when the bush came up to
the back door, she-oak was easy to get.
It kept the wood stove going at an even
temperature and added to Mum’s cook
ing kudos. Used in the old ant-heap or
brick ovens where the fire was made on
the floor inside, scooped out later and
victuals put in and the so-called door
barred up with a bit of tin, every woman
knew just how long she-oak would take
to heat up the cook-kiln and when it
would be just right for the roast, bread,
pound-cake and sponge mixture. And
she-oak is still the best wood for pro-
ducer charcoal.
& 3£ * *
“Esk D.”: It could hardly be New
Year in the bush without a sports meet-
ing, and the final event for the day was
an old buffers’ race for the two dozen
bucks from a near-by mission station.
The gun crashed and they flattened out,
bare feet pounding the dusty track. Ten
yards from the post and it was anybody’s
race; then one ancient put in an extra
spurt. He appeared to stumble, and, as
he fell forward, his hand shot out to give
a mighty shove to the seat of the nearest
runner’s pants, sending him flying out in
front to win by a short length. When
the prize-money was paid over two grin-
ning old nigs wandered off to a secluded
spot where there was doubtless something
in readiness for celebrations.
* * * *
“Sou’-west”: The cat as a pointer (B.
9/12/’42)? A fisheries inspector whose
job it 'was to patrol the vast expanse of
a W.A. estuary took a she-cat with him.
The fish-poachers were clever, being born
to the estuary and the game, but qdite
often in a while he made a capture. There
isn’t much noise made by a couple of
men drawing a net in the darkness,
especially when there are scores of miles
of shallows and sandbanks where it
could be done. But the cat was always
on the alert, the slightest sound coming
over the waters, and she would “point”
the direction. Of course she often pointed
to what proved to be only a school of
mullet jumping, but she earned her keep
—until every fisherman in the place took
to keeping a tomcat, sometimes half-a-
dozen. After that the inspector could
seldom lay hold of his pointer when he
got ready for a midnight sortie after the
lawbreakers.
“B. A. Ker”: At first we thought it
was a young kitten mewing down near
the harness shed ; but only three weeks
previously Tabby’s latest arrivals had
been summarily dealt with, and, fast
worker though she was, she had her limi-
tations. It definitely wasn’t a pup ; in
fact, on second hearing, it didn’t really
sound like anything natural. “A frog
makes some queer noises when anything
hurts him,” George submitted. “F’rin-
stance, if a cat’s got him he makes a dif-
ferent sound to the cry he lets out when
a dog bites him. If it’s a snake the noise
is different again ; and one I saw battling
grimly with an eel fastened like a leech
to his leg made a row like nothing on
earth.” “Well, what do you reckon’s got
him?” asked Bert. George looked
around the room. “Young Bill’s not
here,” he remarked significantly. A hail
went forth from Mum and Bill was car-
peted. “Now,” she demanded, “what
were you doing to that frog?” “Frog?”
repeated the kid blankly. Then the light
dawned, “Aw, that noise? Gee, I vtfas
just trying to learn to play a gumleaf!”
* * * *
“Slochurst”: This year Australia
should be celebrating the 90th anniver-
sary of the founding of Cobb and Co.
by the Americans Freeman Cobb, J. M.
Peck, James Swanton and John Lamber.
They imported in 1853 several American
coaches, which cost about £6OO each
landed. After several changes the firm
was taken over by an Australian co.,
amongst the members of which was
James Rutherford, of Bathurst. In the
museum there today is one of the
locally-made Cobb coaches. This par-
ticular coach ran for many years
on the Hill End-Sofala-Bathurst route;
drivers, the Billy Maloneys, father and
son: “young” Bill helped Bathurst to
celebrate its centenary. In its great days
Cobb and Co. harnessed 6000 horses per
day, had a payroll exceeding £lOO,OOO a
year and mail contracts worth £95,000 a
year. It served Australia well for 71
years.
* * *
“Wang”: When the parson and his
wife were leaving Dad ordered young
Joe to go along and take down the slip-
rails and open the two gates in the half-
mile between the house and the road. Joe
didn’t evince much enthusiasm for the
job, and Dad’s hand automatically
strayed towards his belt. “Go on, there's
a good boy,” he said, the grit in his
voice belying the smile on his face. ‘Y’ll
be able t’ fly back ’count of the wings
y’ll get fer doin’ such a good deed.
Angel’s wings. He’ll get angel’s wings,
won’t he, Mr. Goodly?” The parson
couldn’t subscribe to this proposition,
but, not wishing to give offence, he
said evasively, “Well, he’ll feel all the
better for doing it, I’m sure.” But Dad
was immensely pleased with his flight
of fancy and bent on making the most
of it. “Oh, he’ll get wings all right,” he
said ; “they’ll start sproutin’ outa him as
soon as he begins t’ go. Hurry along
now, Joe ; there’s a good feller.” Joe,
however, was not to be cajoled by such
honeyed words. He glared at his parent
rebelliously for a second or two ; then,
feeling safe in the presence of the visitors,
he replied cheekily, “Y’re keen on this
wing bizness, ain’t y’? S’pose y’
reckon I’d get the cows in earlier of a
mornin’ if I had ’em!” Dad’s hardly-
restrained emotions suddenly got the
better of him. “Get goin’,” he bellowed,
“If 1 start after y’, me lad, y’U wish t’
heaven y’ had ’em.”
“ There's a limit to everything !”
“I know, dear. That's what I keep telling the baby."
FLIES.
From the minute you wake to the moment you
doze
It’s flies, flies, flies!
Buzzing your eardrums and tickling your nose.
Gnawing around your eyes.
When your hands are engaged how in hell do
they know
They can settle in force for a free, open go?
While all you can do to dislodge ’em is—blow.
Stiffen the blasted flies!
Fixed on the tucker from breakfast to tea,
Flies, flies, flies!
Pick up your teacup and what will you see?
Stir it. and what will arise?
Flies round the ceiling in swarming parade.
Launching their squadrons in raid after raid.
While swatting you ask “Why the hell were they
made?”
Stiffen the blasted flies!
Maddening humans and torturing beasts,-
Flies, flies, flies!
Swarming in clouds to their devilish feasts,
Drawing the crows to the prize.
What a world this would be if old Noah, the'
nark.
While cruising about in his self-contained Ark
Had seen that one couple did not disembark!
Stiffen the blasted flies!
N.S.W.
B. A. KER.


The strongest ready-to-use glue for sticking emery
cloth to grinder discs is
DAVIS
LIQUID GLUE
specially recommended for shearing-shed use.
Obtainable in 40z., Boz., 16oz. and 1-gallon sizes.
Hardware and general stores.
Australian, Mercantile, Land & Finance
Company, Limited
(INCORPORATED IN ENGLAND IN 1863)
WOOL, FAT STOCK, STORE AND STUD STOCK,
PRODUCE AND PROPERTY SALESMEN
General Manager for Australia: R. SINCLAIR SMITH.
ADVANCES MADE ON GRAZING PROPERTIES, ON STOCK, AND ON
CONSIGNMENTS OF WOOL, SKINS, HIDES, TALLOW, ETC.
LICENSED AUCTIONEERS, STOCK AND STATION AGENTS.
SYDNEY OFFICE: A. M. MURDOCH. Manager.
ALSO AT MELBOURNE, BRISBANE, NEWCASTLE, IVAGGA, HENTY, HAY, MOREE,
TOWNSVILLE, CHARLEY!LLE, BUENOS AIRES, LONDON.
GENERAL AGENTS IN NEW SOUTH WALES FOR NORTHERN ASSURANCE CO.. LTD.
~r
&
g
HOTEL GRAND CENTRAL
151 CLARENCE STREET, facing G.P.0., SYDNEY.
ROOM ONLY
Single Rooms from 5/6
Double Rooms from 11 /-
BED & BREAKFAST
Single Rooms from 7/6
Double Rooms from 15/-
Hot and Cold Water
Spacious, Up-to-date Dining Room—All Meals ala Carte. Banquets, Functions, etc., by arrangement.
Telephone: 8W1531 (7 lines). Box 35875, G.P.0., Sydney. Cable and Radio: Grancentral.
G. C. C. McKAY, Manager. ‘
THE MAN ON
THE LAND
"DON'T WORRY. I'M SENDING IT TO
GRAZCOS."
Wool After the War.
“S. and R.”; The Westralian P.P.A.
approves a tentative five-year plan for
post-war wool marketing—Britain to con-
tinue to buy Australian, Maoriland and
South African export clips on a
flat rate basis of 15yd. Australian
per pound, plus yd. per pound for
appraising and other charges. Wool
needed for home manufacture is to
be excluded, plus an expanding quota
according to pre-war requirements and
any increased population. Australian
manufacturers would pay a flat rate of
15yd. per pound, plus a loading of 3d., as
they would be relieved of various charges,
have a choice in selection and security
on local markets.
Processing in the Commonwealth would
be controlled by the Australian authority,
which would also control costs and
“may” give preference to co-operative
establishments. “Provision may also be
made for a percentage of the profits to
be made available to a number of the
skilled and permanent workers in the
Various works.” Sheepskins and by-pro-
ducts to be also under Australian control.
- The plan seeks elimination of all but
the minimum agents required and of all
commissions except those agreed upon by
the control bodies in the U.K. and con-
tracting Dominions, which would handle
the clips. Present controls would be
liquidated and new ones set up with
Governmental consultation, sanction and
assistance, producers to have absolute
control in the management by nominees,
finance to be by the existing authorities.
Since the originators claim that the base
price of 15yd. is relative to production
costs in 1939, they hold that the Govern-
ment may be asked to peg land values
and rentals as nearly as possible to the
values existing in 1939 for the five years’
term. The thing is merely tentative and
it seems to have a lot of holes in it, but it
is the first attempt at getting some sort
of stabilising influence ready for the post-
war period, and for that reason is worth
thinking about.
Oats and Sheep.
“Fort Huon”: WeTe on the fringe of
the 18in. rainfall belt, and we found out
long ago that if we relied on stubble,
fallow and ordinary pasture for sheep
feed we got caught time and again by
dry winters. Now we grow oats, both for
grazing and stored fodder (hay and grain!,
and our feeding worries have ceased.
We sow sometimes on the wheat
stubble and sometimes on a clean fallow.
Sulphate of ammonia was a great help
on the stubble, and we’ll feel the short-
age, but there is still the fallow ; super,
can be got, and we’ve built up a large
reserve of feed. We get good grazing off
the oats within six weeks of sowing,
though we find it doesn’t pay to turn the
sheep on to it without an occasional
change to ordinary grass or some hay.
Left solely on the green oats, they are
liable to a form of tetany, and lambs
from ewes left on the greenstuff seem
to fall easily to pulpy kidney.
The oat paddocks are subdivided with
lightning fences, and the areas are rested
fairly often. On some of these little pad-
docks we have carried up to 10 sheep an
acre for months.
Turning the lambing ewes on to the
oats proved a good thing. The lambs
fattened quickly, and we stuck in self-
feeders with a mixture of oat grain and
“R'member, I'm the ref., an' I got me dough on y'!"
wheaten chaff to top ’em off. Can’t say we
ever £ot prime lambs, but we’re satisfied.
It took us a while to learn that hand-
feeding isn’t just a drought stunt —that it
ought to be done every winter on country
like ours —but now the sheep never go
short. We keep the greenstuff in silage
pits, the grain in tanks and the sheaved
hay in stacks on straddles, though lately
baled hay is proving a better proposi-
tion. Once or twice we’ve been tempted
to sell hay and grain when the season
looked good, and when it stayed good it
was all right. We were caught once,
however, and he’d be a persuasive bloke
who could buy much from us now.
The point is that where you expect
sheep to make up the loss of wheat
returns, which is what we aimed at, you
have to carry enough sheep to do it, and
the only way is to increase the amount
of both ready and stored feed. Oats
was our answer.
Sub. Clover and Lucerne.
“Pat Ater”: Sub. clover is the answer
to every farmer’s prayer in districts where
late autumn and winter-to-spring rain is
assured. It matters little whether the soil
is gravelly, granite, basalt (volcanic) or
loams; the needful extras can always be
supplied in the shape of phosphates and
lime. Assured rainfall at the right time
is the thing. A clover stand then will
do for hay, silage or light grazing. It
should, too, be sprinkled through the
grass pastures in association with Phalaris
tuherosa.
Where the rains come in summer lucerne
is the great standby. Lucerne likes a high
lime content, but this is not essential.
Dressings of anything from half a ton to
two tons per acre of ground carbonate of
lime can be applied according to soil
acidity in preparing the seedbed. Light
annual topdressings after the first year’s
growth will keep the lucerne in good
heart.
Lucerne can be grown in acid soils,
but, without lime, it will be stunted
and “run out.” Deep, naturally fer-
tile or alluvial soils will grow pro-
portionately heavier crops. Even at
Moss Vale, on the N.S.W. high-
land country, one dairy-farmer has cut
lucerne hay, following on good summer
rains (not usual here), up to 35cwt. per
acre at each of first two cuts. The old
belief that lucerne is only for rich river
flats has gone into the discard.
Swine Fever.
“Huxave”: It’s bad now in N.S.W.
Isolate all sick pigs. Burn dead ones
where they lie ; burn the blood and dis-
charge too and at least of the under-
lying soil and then scatter lots of quick-
lime about.
Make a thorough job of cleaning sties
and yards. If they are old, burn the lot
and plough up the yards. If they’re
modern, disinfect every inch. Rake up
refuse and litter and burn it. Wash
troughs, guttering and floors with boiling
water and then sprinkle with chloride of
lime. Scrub the walls first with disinfec-
tant and then limewash them —adding
disinfectant to the lime. Posts and rails
need the same treatment. Yards need
ploughing and lots of lime scattered over
them.
Reep healthy pigs out of these build-
ings for at least three months and give
them another limewash before the pigs
settle in. Boots, clothing and all imple-
ments should also go through the disin-
fectant tub. When rebuilding the pig-
gery, choose a new site.
Best methods of control are (1) to place
new pigs in isolation for some months
and (2) to cut out all contact with pig-
geries where deaths of swine fever have
occurred.
Report suspects at once to the local
stock inspector.
Whitewash.
“B.”: Flour paste makes one of the
best washes. Slake 621 b. of quicklime in
15gal. of water. Cover with a sack
till the steam rises; stir occasion-
ally. In another vessel beat up 2\Vo.
flour in igal. cold water and add 2gal.
boiling water; in a third can dissolve
2|lb. common salt in hot water.
Mix flour paste and salt solution together
first, pour into the quicklime and stir
well. Add loz. zinc sulphate to prevent
mildew.
For out-of-door jobs that must be
weatherproof place 621 b. fresh quicklime
in a barrel with 201 b. beef tallow. Slake
gradually with 15gal. warm water and
cover with sacking to keep in the steam.
By the time the lime is slaked the tallow
will have disappeared. Ochre or sienna
can be added before slaking if a tint is
wanted. When cold thin down to an easy
flowing consistency.
“Lighthouse” limewash is good for
outside jobs. It’s made by slaking 621 b.
Quicklime with 12gal. water in one vessel
and 121 b. salt with 6gal. water in another.
After the salt solution is poured into the
quicklime add 61b. Portland cement. Use
immediately.
Hints for the Farm.
“Goulburn”: Don’t graze lucerne with
heavy stock until it is at least a year old.
Best plan is to run sheep and feed off
only half the growth. This helps develop-
ment and establishes greater resistance
against heat and dry weather.
“C.S.”; C.S. and I.R. experiments
showed that sub. clover with perennials
such as Phalaris tuberosa or perennial rye
could eradicate St. John’s wort and pro-
vide 'a nutritious pasture. Best method
is to sow a mixture of Phalaris and sub.
with superphosphate on a good seedbed
fallowed during the summer. Control
is possible by broadcasting sub. and
super, on infested land which has been
lightly scarified. Mowing and burning
are not recommended. Both, with
ploughing, increase the St. John’s wort.
“L.C.”: Give the cow a chance by
washing her udder and teats thoroughly
with warm soap and water when she first
comes in. After drying, rub olive oil
over them. If the teats are already sore
cleanse first with warm soapy water and
apply carbolised vaseline. Where the
sores have spread and there is irritation
wash with a solution of one dram sugar
of lead in one pint rainwater ; then coat
the wound gently with benzoated zinc
oxide ointment. Hand-milking keeps deep
sores open ; careful use of a sterilised
teat siphon gives them a chance to heal.
“Guy P.”: So that Roseworthy man is
not too sure of marginal lands being
suitable for fat lambs (B. 16/12/’42).
Since 1916 I have carried on mixed farm-
ing at Meribah, approximately 40 miles
north of Pinnaroo, 40 miles south of
Renmark and 25 miles s.-e. of Loxton ; in
other words, well and trply in the S.A.
marginal lands. In 1927 I topped the
Adelaide market with merino-Shropshire
lambs at 365. 4d. My brother at Panina,
five miles from me, has often been
amongst the tops with first-class lambs
from Border Leicester-merino ewes by
Southdown rams. We can and do pro-
duce nearly every year some of the finest
fat lambs in S.A. There are others
round here doing the same thing.


5
E
s
LOTIO
For Inflamed Eyes and Eyelids
SOLD EVERYWHERE
H. A. Rose & Co. Pty. Ltd- King St., Sydney
Pelmanism
Scientific Training of Mind, Memory and Personality
H.M. Forces
160 admirals and generals and
nearly 100,000 other ranks have
taken the Pelman Course.
Approved by the War Office.
A gratifying feature of our relations
with students is the friendly communi-
cations we receive from time to time
from Pelmanists who completed the
course years ago. An extract from one
such letter is included below.
SOLDIER —34th April, ’42: “It is grati-
fying to realise the difference Pelmanism has
made in my Array life. ...as evidenced in
many new friendships, for instance.”
TEACHER —22ml May, '42: “I have taken
a fresh grip on things. I used to dread
Inspections, and stew over them before and
after. I am now looking forward to this
year’s Inspection.”
SOLDIER —14th May, ’43: “The Course
has improved me wonderfully, especially in
regard to observation and general efficiency.”
CLERK—7th April, ’42: “In an early
lesson you said that there is no magic in
Pelmanism. I can only say, from the peace
of mind and,increased efficiency I have enjoyed
since studying Pelmanism, that it takes on
the appearance of magic.”
SOLDIER— I7th May, ’42: “My past
training in Pelmanism has stood me in good
stead since joining the A.I.F. There is
ample opportunity here for the application
of the Pelman principles of living.”
MEDICAL STUDENT—9th May, ’43:
“1 find myself improved in decisiveness and
concentration, which have combined to vastly
increase my self-confidence.”
AIR FORCE —18th May, ’42: “I took the
Pelman Course in September, ’35. It proved
to be an outstandingly-wise decision on my
part I have improved and increased my
earning capacity in the last six and a half
years I have enthusiastically recommended
the Pelman Course to hundreds.”
BOOT TRADE— I2th May, ’42: “Each
lesson has shown me more grounds for im-
provement and my aims have become clearer.
I applied for the Course to obtain social
case, but quickly saw the wisdom of your
advice to aim at all-round development.”
SOLDIER— Ist May, '43: “I undertook
the Pelman Course to overcome a bad
memory, and I am making good progress.
Yesterday I had to learn the Morse Code,
and I made astonishing progress. To-day
there are only two letters of which I am not
quite certain.”
The Headquarters of the Pelman
Institute are in London.
The Institute has been established in
Melbourne under the same direction for
over 34 years, and has enrolled more than
50,000 of the half-million Pelmanists.
The staff of the Pelman Institute is fully aware of the present need
for intensification of effort, and it sets out with each pupil to get
as quickly as possible to the core and substance of his individual
requirements.
On “being wanted”
The first source of moral strength is a certainty of being wanted,
of being acceptable to at least one group of people. A second source
is the conviction that, if we wish, we can make ourselves of use to
other groups and acceptable to them. The enlargement of the number
of groups and the intensification of our influence in any one of them
are determined by the degree of development of certain qualities, viz:
Perceptive Faculty Concentration Self-Control Judgment
Self-Confidence Organisation Will-Power Initiative
and a good memory for faces, figures, names, appointments, prices
and useful data of every kind.
Pelmanism trains these qualities, not with the object of making
the individual like anyone else, but so that he, as an individual, will
be as strong as it is possible for him to be. The Pelman Training sets
out seriously to do this so that the man will be himself at his best, able
to make a good performance of anything he undertakes.
More is said about this and other interesting aspects of
personality in “The Efficient Mind,” 76 pages, sent post
free. Inquiries are confidential. We have no outside
representatives.
The Pelman Institute
3 Gloucester House, 396 Flinders Lane
(Cr. Market St.), Melbourne.
Telephone: MU2355. Telephone or personal calls are welcomed.
Those who do not wish to cut The Bulletin are advised that “The Pelman Institute,
Melbourne,” is sufficient address.
New Zealand Inquirers.
The Pelman Institute, with
the approval of the Reserve
Bank has made arrangements to
meet the financial restrictions
and enable residents of New
Zealand to enrol for the Peimau
Course of Training without
delay. Write in the first instance
to the Pelman Institute, Mel-
bourne.
To the Pelman Institute, 3 Gloucester House,
396 Flinders Lane, Melbourne.
Please send me, post-free, a copy of “THE EFFICIENT
MIND.”
Name
Address
157
The Doughboys Arrive.
UNCABLED ADDITIONS
[How the Americans reached New Guinea;
condensed from a description by New York
“Times” correspondent Byron Darnton, written
a few days before he was killed at the front.]
Some of the American infantry now in
New Guinea came by air—the first
American doughboys ever to be taken
to field combat by this method. For
many boys it was their first airplane ride,
and they ate it up.
Others arrived by ship, unloaded at
night when the danger of being spotted
by enemy reconnaissance ’planes was nil.
They are good troops, led by officers
who have declared their idea of warfare
is the offensive—they want to get at the
job and get it over. These men are better
prepared for action than their fathers
were in World War I, through better
training. They are better equipped. They
have been beautifully calm about what
is ahead of them. And in company after
company you have been able to hear
that statement from men that sounds
sweetest to the ears of a company com-
mander, “This is the best goddamned
company in the whole outfit.”
These boys came dressed in green for
their great test. A fatigue uniform of
lightweight long trousers and long-sleeved
jacket.
Before they left the mainland of Aus-
tralia their clothes were dyed to produce,
not a solid color, but the mottled light
and dark green that is the best jungle
camouflage. Many units discarded the
steel helmet, which is heavy for jungle
use, and wore similarly mottled cloth
fatigue hats.
The units that were transported by air
flew in big transport ’planes. Some of
them saw nothing except the interior of
the craft, for combat ’planes are designed
for more serious business than sight-
seeing.
The schedule of the air movement can-
not be revealed ; but it can be said that
at times ’planes arrived at the airfield
in this area with the regularity of express
subways pulling into the Times Square
station. Each ’plane as it landed was
taxied to the revetment, where with a
great roar of engines it was turned
around so as to be able to get back on
the dispersal strip without the loss of
a second.
A crewman opened the door and a
couple of soldiers got out to receive the
packs of all sorts and gear handed to
them by their comrades still aboard. The
wit of one platoon was Ole Larson, 21,
of Menomonie, Wis.
“Ole, where are the Japs?” shouted a
lad who wanted to keep Ole going.
“Japs?” said Ole. “When you see them
Japs you dig fast and if you dig fast
enough you’ll find me. Why, maybe I’m
going to dig right through to Wisconsin.”
“Yessir, we’re travelling this war in
style,” Ole remarked.
Many units were met at the field by
the commanding officer. Attired in spotty
green like the men, he went in a jeep from
’plane to ’plane seeing that every one was
all right.
As day followed day and more and
more of his men came from the skies,
the commander noticed with amusement
that he had already built up a force of
New Guinea veterans.
Men who had been here all of two
days had the fun of telling their later-
coming comrades which way the front
was, what the name of the field was, and
generally how the military situation was
changing. Many questions were asked.
None of the boys had known officially
where he was going when he left the
mainland, but, naturally, all had a pretty
good idea. Nevertheless, the question
heard over and over again as the ’planes
were discharging men was: “What place
is this?”
One questioner, told what area he was
in, gazed about and remarked: “So we’re
here. We’ve found ourselves a new
island.”
The men who came by ship were well
protected by a screen of ’planes in the
danger area. They arrived just at dusk.
For 15 minutes before the first ship
docked there was a light rain and a gor-
geous rainbow. The rain ceased, but the
sky remained heavily overcast. This was
good protection against interference by
the enemy. The arrival was quite a social
event. It came at a time of the day when
many men are off duty and they lined the
hills around the dock. AH arrange-
ments had been made to receive the
troops and to see that they were taken
care of and see that they got where they
were supposed to get—a considerable job
with such a force arriving by both air
and sea.
The job was very well done. A colonel
equipped with a “walkie-talkie” radio set
talked with officers aboard the various
ships in the harbor. The set consisted of
a cylinder, about six inches in diameter
and eighteen inches long, strapped to his
right shoulder, and a telephone arrange-
ment. A collapsible antenna extended
three feet over his head, bobbing back
and forth.
The rainbow faded out. The hills of
New Guinea rose dark and ominous
beyond the harbor. Beyond those hills,
32 miles as the strafer flies, were the
Japanese. You thought about the Jap-
anese, about coconut groves, rubber plan-
tations, betel-nut-chewing natives in red
remis; about malarial swamps, fly-
infested Army kitchens. You heard the
high-pitched voices of Australian sol-
diers working on the docks with the
“bloodys” and “good-ohs.”
You thought of how different all this
was from Adrian, Mich., with its maple-
shaded streets and the hamburger joint
on West Maumee, where the High School
kids gather after the Friday-night dance.
And it all gave point to what Major
Bond said when he got down on the
dock: “It may sound funny, but I’m
almost sorry for the Japs. These boys
really are bloodthirsty. They’re ready
to go.”
There was a lot of kidding between the
troops waiting to land and the American
soldiers on the dock, who had been sta-
tioned there some time.
“Better hurry up, for the mosquitoes
are going to carry this dock away with
them tonight,” said a soldier ashore. The
men on the ship, their packs already
slung, laughed. One of them shouted:
“Where’s the dance tonight?”
Military police lined the dock, point-
ing out to infantrymen the way to the
waiting trucks. As the men boarded
trucks, they faced about and extended
their hands to aid those following them.
Morale was high. “We’ve been sit-
ting around too long. We’re ready for
them,” said Corporal Marvin Wiebenga,
of Grand Rapids. “We’re going to do
our best,” said Private William Spaugy.
Men were carrying quinine, citronella,
salt tablets, iodine, vitamin pills and sul-
phanilamide. From the docks —as from
the airfield —most of the men moved into
bivouac areas, where they pitched pup
tents. Some units moved immediately
toward the front, while others waited a
few days.
Those who waited used their free time
to see as much of the area as they could.
They were welcomed wherever they went,
particularly by the Air Corps, which was
glad to see fellow-countrymen taking up
the task of protecting the indispensable
airfields hereabout.
In the words of Sergeant Floyd Mar-
latt, of Adrian, Mich., “We’re going to
do our damnedest.”
U.S. World Air Transport Bid
[Condensed from “United States News” this
article indicates the grip Uncle Sam is getting
on world air transport, with peace-time com-
mercial flying in mind.]
Army Air Forces in partnership with
18 commercial air lines of the U.S. are
writing history with their air transport
system. On every critical front of the
world, American cargo-carrying ’planes
are playing their part. New sky trucks
and flying freight cars constantly are
going into military transport service.
New plans to build both cargo ’planes
and gliders are maturing. A growing
stream of cargo ’planes is flying between
the United States and each main theatre
of war.
Hundreds of combat ’planes already
have been flown across Africa to the
scene of battle. Air transport is the only
safe, fast link with the Aleutian Islands
in the north and Australia in the south.
Air transport affords the one means of
escaping the 50 per cent, losses that have
cut into convoys carrying Lend-lease
materials by sea to Russia. The northern
route from Alaska through Siberia can
be used.
On all the fronts and behind them the
partnership between the Army and the
air lines involves a military supply job
that has no parallel. The Army owns
the cargo ’planes. Contracts are made
with the 18 air lines to do the flying.
The contracts of nine of the 18 firms call
for flying outside of the U.S. The num-
ber of ’planes leaving each day for
Alaska, for England, for South America,
for Africa, for India, for China and for
Australia is a military secret. But it is
no secret that the schedule calls for hun-
dreds of flights every day, and that the
number is growing swiftly. The fields,
the bases, the personnel are provided for
an air transport system that girdles the
entire world. Twenty-five per cent, of
the multi-engined aircraft to be produced
in 1943 are earmarked for use of the Air
Transport Command.
The future status of the world’s air
commerce is regarded as one of the stakes
in this war. That’s one reason why the
fighting tends to be hottest around strate-
gic islands and mainland spots that will
be keys to control of the world’s sea
lanes.
Tf Germany and Japan should win,
virtual military operation of all lines their
Governments could lay hands on would
be expected. If the Allies win, great
growth of world air commerce is fore-
seen. But the problem would arise as to
what part would be assigned to Govern-
ments and what part to private initiative.
Closely related questions are headed
for the peace conference, such as: free-
dom of the air over nations that have
used sovereignty to mask preparations
for aggression ; freedom of the air over
the seas; methods of international reci-
procity that must become the basis of
world-wide air-line operation if each
nation is to retain complete sovereignty
of the air over itself.
The air lines now carrying war supplies
to the far corners of the world are


STATE EXPRESS
m
a£umyspbcue!
Lend your Money to hasten Victory.
Buy £lO National Savings Bonds or
Wor Savings Certificates.
“BILL ABONG ”
TROUGHING
dan
Door
Stable
DA’NKs
*f ENT N°3176
S.
Cattle
MM
ATEINT MO 2 | 7 q
Sheep
GOOD SUPPLY OF PURE WATER IS
ESSENTIAL FOR YOUR STOCK.
Write for Prices and Particulars to
391-403 BOURKE STREET,
MELBOURNE.
And at 324-330 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
“Id
regarded as logical heirs to growth of
commercial aviation if the Allies win.
Russia as a Partner.'
(Condensed from a “Saturday Evening Post”
article by William Henry Chamberlain.)
How does the Russian Soviet shape up
today? How has Russia been able to put
up such stubborn and effective resistance
to the Nazi onslaught? What kind of
partner will Russia be in the future
peace?
Objective understanding has always
been at a discount where Soviet Russia
has been concerned. The Bolshevik re-
volution, in its first phase, challenged four
deep-rooted human instincts. It repudi-
ated private property. It denied religion.
It cast off the family. It scoffed at
national patriotism. And Lenin and his
associates proclaimed a crusade to make
over the whole world in the image of their
Communist faith. No wonder that Bol-
shevism became a fighting word all over
the world and discussion of its workings
usually generated more heat than light.
Where does Russia stand on these
original principles after a quarter of a
century of social upheaval, turmoil and
experimentation? To say that the Soviet
Government has returned or is returning
to capitalism is misleading and untrue.
Even the smallest forms of private enter-
prise—the little grocery shop, the 20-acre
farm—have disappeared or are in process
Of disappearing. Soviet economy can best
be understood as a gigantic State trust
where everyone —worker and farmer,
clerk and engineer, teacher and scientist
—is in the employ of some public
authority.
But Russia is not the never-never land
of dreamers where everything is equally
shared by all. Very sharp differentials
in wages and salaries and standards of
living have been found necessary to
stimulate production.
The Soviet experiment has proved that
a Socialist economy can be a going con-
cern, that it can build big new factories,
beat peasant ploughshares into tractors,
prepare efficiently for the supreme ordeal
of war. But the price which it has
exacted, in human lives and human
liberty, is a heavy one —much heavier
than any people would voluntarily pay.
And the Russian experience has emphati-
cally not proved that Socialist economics
is compatible with the maintenance of
civil and personal and political liberties.
Iron-handed dictatorship is inextricably
intertwined with the major constructive
achievements of the Soviet regime.
Most striking has been the about-face
in the matter of nationalism. In the be-
ginning it was the Soviet practice to de-
nounce and belittle everything that
existed in Russia before the revolution.
Now strong czars like Ivan the Terrible
and Peter the Great are held up for
admiration. Stalin invokes the shades
of the great Russian generals of the past.
There are several reasons for the
tenacity of the Russian resistance to the
Nazis, despite terrific losses in men, terri-
tory and material. Russians, as Napoleon
and earlier would-be conquerors could
testify, have always stood together against
a foreign invader. Stalin’s war prepara-
tions have been long, intensive and real-
istic. The Soviet dictator never tried to
nurse the delusion that war could mean
anything but a severe all-round cut in
the standard of living. He demanded
and got more working time from labor,
more food deliveries from the peasants,
more sacrifice from everyone.
We welcome Russia as an ally in the
war and anticipate Russian co-operation
in the world after the war. We do not
demand that Russians adopt our ideas
of individual liberty and free enterprise,
and we can co-operate with Russia with-
out becoming converts to Communism.
After all, we fought the last war in co-
operation with Japan without acquiring
faith in the divinity of the Mikado.
If Russia’s post-war aims are peace
and international stability, we shall cer-
tainly be prepared to go halfway to
achieve co-operation. Doing business
with Stalin will present some of the diffi-
culties of doing business with Hitler; in
Soviet Russia, as in Nazi Germany,
foreign trade is a State monopoly. And
relations will be smoother if the Soviet
regime can recognise the wisdom of com-
pletely dissociating itself from subversive
movements in this country. But in the
present crisis these are minor considera-
tions.
What Americans Are Saying.
(Condensed from various acknowledged sources.)
Here is why U.S. Ambassador Clarence E.
Gauss [who was first U.S. Minister at Can-
berra] has lost favor with the Chinese Gov-
ernment. Gauss offended Madame Chiang, wife
of the Generalissimo, in what seems an inno-
cent phrase, but those who know Oriental sensi-
bilities, plus tension created by our failure to
send adequate supplies, will realise Gauss’s
blunder. When Gauss speaks with the General-
issimo, Madame Chiang acts as interpreter.
Gauss speaks no Chinese. They discussed
U.S. aid, and General Chiang asked why de-
liveries had not been more substantial. Gauss
said he had reported China’s needs to Washing-
ton. The general pressed him and Gauss,
not too sauve, became irked, made reference
to T. V. Soong, brother of Madame Chiang,
then in Washington. He said to Madame
Chiang; “Why don’t you ask your brother?”
This shocked the First Lady of China. — New
York “Daily Minor.’ 3
3fC * * *
The curious question remains of why the
Axis was not better able to forestall the Anglo-
American North African operation, which was
certainly (contrary to some enthusiastic com-
ments) among the worst-kept secrets of the war.
The Axis must have known for a month or so
that the blow was impending.— New York
“Herald Tribune.”
* t- * *
Giraud, besides being senior in rank to De
Gaulle, is regarded here [Washington] as a cap-
able administrator, a man of great military
worth and one who has wide popular support
in France, a great asset at a time when the
French people are seeking firm leadership in
their fight for freedom. Neither the American
nor the British Government has ever recognised
De Gaulle’s committee in London as the Gov-
ernment of France. It has been made clear re-
peatedly in authoritative quarters here that De
Gaulle was looked upon as the symbol of French
military resistance, but that this implied no
political recognition. The view has been taken
that it will devolve upon the people of France
to choose their own Government when they
become able to express their opinion. Attempts
by De Gaulle to give his committee a political
complexion have been frowned upon here. —
New York “Herald Tribune” Washington corre-
spondent.
* H? % sfc
Mr. Willkie coupled his plea for greater unity
with Russia and China with a denunciation of
censorship and a refusal to leave strategy to the
military experts. This is highly paradoxical, be-
cause in both those great nations, especially, of
course, in Russia, there is not only rigid and
overpowering censorship, but complete and dicta-
torial control of the war by the chiefs of State
and their experts. In Russia there is total cen-
sorship because there is total Government
control of the press. In fact, Stalin uses our
lack of secretiveness and our lax censorship
as his main excuse for withholding vital infor-
mation from our military observers (let alone
newspaper men) which might help our joint
war effort. — Christopher T. Emmet; New York
“Herald Tribune.”
* * * *
If we win the war in the Pacific we win every-
where. If we lose it we lose everything.
Hence it is important, not merffv to General
MacArthur but to America, to employ his
talents as a masterful military commander and
strategist in full measure. — New York “Journal-
American.”
* * * *
What are the facts of this war? England
went into it when Germany attacked Poland.
Soviet Russia did not go in. Soviet Russia
did not come to the assistance either of Poland
or England. Soviet Russia at that time was in
alliance with Nazi Germany, and England
took as fierce a strafing as any nation has ever
been called upon to suffer. England would
have welcomed a second front then, a second
front in eastern Europe, a second front in
which Soviet Russia did the drawing off ot the
enemy. Twenty-one months passed before rebel
came to England—2l months during which her
cities were bombed, her shipping was destroyed,
her industries were damaged, her people were
put on a starvation subsistence. And England
stood firm. Let no one make a mistake: there
was no period during that 21 months of torture
when England could not have made peace
with Germany and peace on good terms, for
Germany’s ambition was not to destroy England
but to conquer Russia; not to immobilise the
British but to get Russian oil and wheat and
minerals and man-power. It was England
that saved Soviet Russia —saved Russia by
21 months of the most amazing self-sacrifice
and courage in human history. — George E.
Sokolsky; New York “Sun.”
* * * *
General Sir Walter Venning, director of the
British Ministry of Supply mission to the
U.S.A., in an interview proposed that no
accounting be kept of the materials exchanged
by the two countries because it was impossible
to evaluate, in terms of cash, lives lost in the
war. Senator Millard E. Tydings said the
United States stands small chance of getting
back the 56,489,000,000 in materials and ser-
vices President Roosevelt reported had been
advanced to other countries up to Sept, last,
or subsequent aid. “I’m practically certain that
we will get none of this back,” Senator Tydings
told reporters. “I don’t think we ever ex-
pected to get it back when we gave it the
high-sounding name of ‘lend-lease.’ But I
think we ought to keep a record to show what
was furnished, how it was furnished, who used
it and how they used it.” — New York “Herald
Tribune.”
» * * ♦
Here we [Americans] are today, in our worst
war yet. We stand to win eventually. After
that the price of our national safety will be
the constant maintenance of an army of at least
1,500,000 highly-trained war specialists, plus an
air force and a navy big enough to take on
all conceivable comers. Otherwise, we’ll be
sunk some day somehow. — New York “Sunday
News.”
* * * *
In contrast with his estimate that 80,000,000
in the conquered countries of Europe face near-
starvation this winter, former U.S. President
Herbert Hoover states that Japan’s food situa-
tion has been improved by her conquests of the
Asiatic countries, rich in supplies formerly
lacking in Japan, and, as a result, the Japanese
“are living better than they did before Pearl
Harbor.” — New York “Herald Tribune.”
* * * *
A searchlight belt has been thrown across
Germany for 200 miles [to counter R.A.F.
bombing attacks]. The belt is 20 miles deep,
with clusters of from 10 to 30 lights every five
miles. In addition, each production centre
has its own sets of lights. They employ thou-
sands of men. — New York “Herald Tribune:”
Hess alive is more valuable to the Allies
during the war than would be Hess hanged or
shot. We wouldn’t sink a captured German
battleship; we would turn it to our own.uses,
and be thankful. When we win the war we
can take any revenges that seem fitting. Try
collecting revenge in advance, and we may run
into all kinds of needless trouble. — New York
“Daily News.”
* t- *
There is no conclusive proof that Japan has
lost any battleships. The Haruna, supposed
to have been sunk or badly damaged off the
Philippines in the early days of the war, is
believed to have participated in the Battle of
Midway. Two new battleships—l6in.-gun ships
of perhaps 40,000 tons displacement, variously
called the Nissin and Takamatu or the Ya-
mato and Musashi —have not yet been in com-
bat with the American Fleet, but we must
reckon on a total of at least 12, possibly 13
or 14, Jap battleships in commission, two to
four of them new. —Hanson W. Baldwin; New
York “Times.”


“STEEIBILT” Storage Equipment
Is with the Navy at
Battle Stations
a
%
r
C -
Aboard fighting ships where fireproof
materials are vital filing cabinets,
chartroom fixtures, clothing lockers are
always metal. Deliveries of "Steebilt"
Shelving and Storage Equipment are
going to the Navy in a steady flow,
week after week.
And not only to the Navy. A.I.F.
Mobile Trucks are being fitted with
"Steelbilt" Spare Parts Bins and rein-
forced Shelving.
Tool Rooms around Australia's war in-
dustries are more efficient to-day,
because of "Steelbilt" equipment.
More "Steelbilt" equipment is coming
off Wormald Bros, production lines than
ever before. We are developing
new design features ... and you, Mr.
Businss Man, will get the benefit of
that when Peace comes again and we
can return to supplying all commercial
and industrial needs.
Z 0"
m
.
P
gill 9gumm
m *#lJl|fc
ll 'v« . |L ;
'** «^-<
< *™ii;*mii!ii#lfr
o**"*- ™J
"Bangor" Door Hangers are also called up or the duration. But as soon as
conditions permit, Wormald Bros, will be releasing all the original Bangor
models along the many new improved types developed over past months.
“STEELBILT” Storage Equipment
MANUFACTURED BY WORMALD BROS. PTY. LTD. (Incorporated in N.S.W.)
ALL STATES AND NEW ZEALAND


cannot bequeath
your Judgment
or experience
The judgment and experience a man accumu-
lates in his lifetime cannot be passed on to
his dependents. For this reason it is doubly
important that he should take the necessary
steps to ensure that his estate is managed with
competence and fidelity.
For more than 64 years The Trustees
Executors and Agency Company Limited has
provided the impartial advice and assistance
of a permanent corporation as Executor,
Trustee, Attorney, Agent, and in other capaci-
ties of a fiduciary nature.
The appointment of the company ensures
continuity in the execution of a trust, which
cannot be provided by a single individual.
Charges are fixed and moderate and ample
security is provided. Consult your solicitor
or write or call for full'informations
THE TRUSTEES EXECUTORS
and Agency Company Ltd .
Incorporated in Victoria in 1878
1 BLIGH ST., SYDNEY, AND AT 401 COLLINS ST.. MELBOURNE
Capital (paid and uncalled ) and Reserves and
■ Undivided Profits, £95!), 622.
BOARD OF DIRECTORS:
Sir Alexander Stewart (Chairman) ;
D. Stuart Murray; Sir Claude Reading, K.C.M.G.;
Sir Lennon Raws, C.8.E.; G. S. Colman, 0.8. E.;
Sir Alan Newton.
NEW SOUTH WALES DIRECTORS:
Sir Claude Reading, K.C.M.G. (Chairman);
W. D. Stewart; R. T. Hilder.
N.S.W. MANAGER: J. W. Russell French.
Gen. Manager: W. Sydney Jones, Mjnager: K. M. Hughes
The Federal Mutual Insurance Company
of Australia Limited
FIRE, MARINE AND ACCIDENT INSURANCES
EFFECTED AT LOWEST CURRENT RATES
Prompt and liberal settlements of claims.
Directors • THOMAS A. MAGNEY, Chairman; P. R. Baker; F. W. Duesbwry; Sydney Sampson.
R. A. MANZIB, Managing Director.
’Phone (three lines): 87361. Branches in All States. 129 Pitt Street, Sydney.
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
Broken Hill South, Ltd.
June, Profit. Dividends. Reserves.
£ £ £
1932 .. 152,803 10 p.c. = 80,000 1,678,402
1933 .. 276,199 15 „ „ J 20.000 1,834,601
1934 .. 260,884 25 „ „ 200.000 1,895,485
1935 .. 355,302 30 „ „ 240,000 2,010,787
1936 . . 519,903 62.5„ „ 500,000 2,030,690
1937 .. 803,278 70 „ „ 560.000 2,273,968
1938 .. 437,432 80 ~ „ 640,000 2.071,400
1939 . . 383,138 40 ~ ~ 320,000 2,134,538
Shares written up, £201,369 .. 2,335,907
1940 .. 455,244 40 p.c. = 320,000 2,471,151
1941 . . 326,803 40 ~ „ 320,000 2,477,954
1941 . . 265,106 40 ~ „ 320,000 2,416,257
New shaft written back, £137,917 2,554,174
1942 .. 374,705 30 p.c. = 240,000 2,688,879
In non-ferrous minerals, base of muni-
tions, the Barrier mines’ contribution to
the war economy is a big and vital
one, and in addition they have contri-
buted to the formation of a range
of metal-fabricating, paper-making,
’plane-construction and other essential
secondary industries. Australian require-
ments of lead and zinc are being met
below export parity at the cheapest rate
of any Allied country. The balance, less
“certain other requirements,” finally finds
its way to the British Ministry of Supply
under contract. A year or so ago a sur-
plus was accumulating. But since America
entered the war the whole output of lead,
zinc and silver (the last now all con-
sumed locally) has been practically assured
of markets. The British lead contract,
originally for 13,875 tons a month at
£AIB 16s. 7d. a ton f.0.b., with half-
yearly adjustments for costs, has been
put on a duration, instead of annual,
basis, too, subject only to remote con-
tingencies. Prices, tonnages, etc., aren’t
now mentioned, but the net price isn’t
expected to record any increase.
At the South mine ore extraction and
treatment have been on a fairly stable
basis for some years. Favorable operat-
ing factors last term were a higher grade
of ore, improved recoveries in the con-
centrating mill (lead 96.4 p.c., zinc 89.7
p.c. and silver 92.8 p.c., against 96.1, 89.1
and 92.2 p.c. respectively), and a better
price for refined lead because of sales
to Uncle Sam. Adverse ones included
higher costs both at the mine and in the
smelting and refining process, and smaller
proceeds from zinc concentrates owing
to inadequate Allied refining facilities.
Mine revenue (£1,359,580) advanced
£37,211 ; the expense of extraction,
treatment and freights absorbed £823,551,
or £30,511 more, mainly because of the
lift in the basic wage, including 225. Bd.
lead bonus, from £5 18s. to £6 12s. 2d.
per week. After providing for other exes,
and contingencies, including taxation
(£205,000, down £80,697 after allowing
for £61,697 underprovided in respect of
1941), the board figured the net result
at £247,391 (down £31,962), of which
£118,391 net came from investments.
Actually, the management might have
written profits at least £102,000 better,
and there are other adjustments of which
the “Wild Cat” takes account:
Profit claimed .. .. .. .. £247,391
Add: Allowance lor depreciation . . . . 33,000
Reserve for ore depletion . . . . 102,000
Allowance for contingencies . . 15,000
Addition general reserve . . . . 18,992
Surplus sale investments . . . . 172
Added replacement reserve . . .. 6,331
Total £422,886
Less: Reduction contingency reserve .. 25,000
Plant and. development approp. .. 20,154
Reduction specific reserves .. 168
Written off investments .. . . 2,859
Net profit per table .. .. £374,705
Taking those figures, there would have
been no difficulty in repeating the previ-
ous 40 p.c. div., reduced instead to 30
p.c. The £102,000 mentioned, shown as
a debit in p. and 1. but actually sent to
reserves, represents roughly the fifth of
assessable mine income now exempt from
taxation in both the company’s and share-
holders’ hands under the Income Tax
Assessment Act (No. 2), 1942. It is the
amount of income free from tax, be it
noted, not the actual tax relief antici-
pated, which is something less. This long-
overdue and exceedingly-useful conces-
sion for wasting-asset depletion, a war
measure only, is a permanent feature of
financial policy in the U.S. and in
Canada, where the allowance is now 33i
p.c. to companies and 20 p.c. to share-
holders.
On the £BOO,OOO of capital the net
figure of £374,705 (up £109,599) shown
represented 46.8 p.c. That was after
valuing metals on hand (9695, down 1371,
tons of lead and 452,883, down 32,535
ounces of silver in concentrates) at the
usual low figure of £l2 10s. a ton and
Is. 3d. an ounce respectively. Cost of
No. 7 shaft has been written back into
the accounts, but the resultant addition
of £137,917 to reserves is a book entry
only.
As for the current term, halfway over,
maintenance of mine output and financial
results is looked for, despite a “disturb-
ing” deterioration in costs over the past
six months; investment returns, which
contracted by £43,350 last term, aren’t
expected to be so favorable, however.
Developments failed to replace all the
year’s extraction, reducing the estimate
of ore reserves to 2,100,000 tons. That
excludes any material below 1480 ft. and
that disclosed by diamond-drilling or
limited development only. Official esti-
mate of the life of the property, the short-
est of those at the Barrier, is seven to
eight years, depending on output. It
has been suggested that the mine may
live longer, but if so it will be because
of the discovery of ore as yet unknown.
Meantime, the investment portfolio,
representing a book value of £1,409,227,
continues of first-rate importance. Some
constituents are themselves in whole or
part dependent on Barrier prosperity, as
this summary of the leading lights indi-
cates :
B.H. Associated Smelters .. .. .. £446,369
Western N.S.W. Power 148,300
Associated Pulp and Paper .. . . . . 151,250
Electrolytic Zinc . . . . . . • • 126,562
Electrolytic Refining and Smelting .. .. 64,072
Commonwealth Aircraft Corp. .. .. 62,500
Imperial Smelting Corp. (U.K.) .. .. 55,790
Metal Manufactures .. . . . . • • 55,422
Commonwealth Steel . . .. ■ . .. 51,562
British Australian Lead Manufacturers . . 40,700
Imperial Chemical Industries (Aust.) .. 25,578
Earning power and asset backing aren’t
known in every case. South’s own valua-
tion of the lot, however, represents
Bs. lOd. per ss. share. Apart from these,
surplus liquids (£622,840) amount to a
further 3s, lOd. per share. Machinery and
plant (cost) stands at £1,307,092.
Amalgamated Wireless
To Re- Nominal
June, Profit. Dividends. serves. Reserves.
& £ £ &
1932.. 77,159 7J p.c. = 55,821 21,338 56,360
1933.. 82,472 8 „ „ 59,543 22,629 78,989
1934.. 137,934 10 ~ „ 74,428 63,506 142,495
Staff fund. £5OOO 137,495
1935.. 119,824 10 p.c. = 74,428 lon one IC7 891
Staff fund, £15,000 .. j 30,396 167,391
1936.. 109,701 11 p.c. = 81,870 27,831 195,<21
1937.. 125,794 12 „ „ 89,313 36,481 232,202
1938.. 130,198 12 „ „ 89,525 40,673 272,875
1939.. 132,578 10 ~ „ 89,035 43,543 316,418
From suspense account, £22,800 .. 339,218
1940.. 110,479 10 p.c. = 90,511 19,968 359,186
1941.. 108,089 10 „ „ 90,511 12,578 371,764
1942.. 125,192 8 „ „ 72,408 52,784 424,548
Modern blitz land and aerial warfare
renders communications the most vital
link in a belligerent’s armor, extending
from co-ordination of forces in the field
back through bases to primary sources
of supply and to maintenance of national
contact with outside affairs. In all these
matters, A.W.A. is doing a fine job. It
is nearly 30 years since the co. turned out
its first bit of equipment and began erect-
ing and operating wireless stations of
various kinds. Since, every major de-
velopment has been closely followed —the
rest of the world has been led in some
of the more important ones —and
A.W.A. Australian-made equipment and
trained operators can be found on ships
and elsewhere in all parts of the globe.
Full tale of the co.’s highly-specialised
contribution, both in personnel and equip-
ment, to operations of the NaVy, Army,
Air Force, merchant marine and other
indispensable services isn’t yet ripe for
telling ; but under the direction of knight-
engineer Ernest Fisk 98 p.c.—against
80 p.c. a year ago—of the organisation’s
manufacturing, technical and scientific
resources are now concentrated on essen-
tial work; such things as broadcast and
wireless transmitting and receiving sets,
paging, announcement and entertainment
systems and soundproof windows have
disappeared for general purposes, and
other public services like the radio-tele-
phone interrupted. Overseas communi-
cation channels certainly remain con-
gested by the flood of official and press
dispatches ; but that is no fault of A.W.A.
Despite difficulties, the economical Beam
service, opened in 1927, was further ex-
panded last year ; the stations, indeed,
handled a volume of traffic “far beyond
anything which could have been imagined
as necessary, or even possible, three and
a half years ago,” declares the manage-
ment, which challenges comparison of its
performances with those of any other
similar organisation anywhere.
From all this vast activity, there has
been no financial benefit to shareholders,
though the future has been rendered more
assured. Gross earnings (£1,050,779)
bounded up £180,582 last year; after
charging short tax provision of £30,000
back to ’4l accounts, all but £22,102 of
the increment was swallowed in operat-
ing and other exes. —£925,588, including
£92,265 (down £11,768) for depreciation.
One way and another, £508,000 was
paid to Australian Governments, apart
from the half-share of profits the
Commonwealth is entitled to by virtue of
its controlling shareholding.
On capital the £125,192 called profit
was 13.8 p.c. ; the adjusted figure for
1941 was 11.3 p.c. and for the last pre-
war year 14.9 p.c. Because of domestic
financial requirements, the div. was re-
duced from 10 p.c. to 8 p.c., leaving
£52,784 for reserves —here shown less
establishment exes, of £49,067 but sub-
ject to patents of £85,811 and hence
labelled nominal. Small losses by the
broadcasting subsidiaries, of which 2CH
is the head, were taken up in the pups’
own books.
Further expansion in the debt (up
£671,526) represents temporary finance
to cope with war work. Calling-up of
the outstanding 2s. on the 804,118 con-
tribs. since the close of accounts, how-
ever, suggests that at least part of present
new activity is expected to be permanent.
The call adds £80,412 to capital account:
1936. 1940. 1941. 19'42,
Paid capital. . £744,283 £905,106 £905,106 £905,106
S'undry creditors 240,287 412,277 654,886 1,326,412
Freeholds* .. 377,243 609,389 632,718 628,807
Plant, etc* \ qiq i 570,159 609,794 639,776
Stocks I ’ I 379,369 540,196 1,014,823
Beam services 171,495 179,7i8 182,328 195,439
Book debts . . 259,058 317,164 424,728 625,660
Cash, etc. .. 137,362 150,036 186,362 244,771
Patents , . 93,000’ 85,811 85,811 85,811
*At cost; subject to specific reserves (now
£742,819).
Stock and work in progress mounted
£474,627 and debtors £200,932 ; £27,500
of the lift in cash and investments reflects
taking up of more scrip in the valve-
making subsidiary. The net reduction of
£3911 in freeholds is made up of addi-
tions of roughly £19,000 to Sydney works
and buildings, less losses of
resulting “from war conditions.” Revi-
sion of the financial presentation of wire-
less stations is promised. Fixed assets
at present appear at cost, against which
is held £742,819 in specific reserves, which
appear to assay a fair proportion of true
profit. ,
Lamson Paragon, Ltd.
To Re-
Oct., Profit. Dividends. Reserves, serves.
£ £ £ £
1932.. 6,728 5 p.c. = 5,000 1,728 43,191
1933.. 7,072 6 „ „ 6,000 1,072 44,263
1934.. 9,311 7 ~ ~ 7,000 2,311 46,574
1935.. 10,256 8 „ „ 8,000 2,256 48,830
1936.. 11,525 9 ~ „ 9,000 2,52 o 51,355
Premiums on shares, £6250 • • 07,000
1937.. 13,091 10 p.c. = 10.000 3,091 60,696
Loss sale factory, £4OOO .. ■ ■ 56,696
1938.. 15,162 10 p.c. = 12,500 2,662 59,358
Premiums on shares, £6250 .. 65,608
1939.. 15,795 10 p.c. = 12,500 3,295 £8,903
1940.. 19,198 10 „ „ 15,000 4,198 £3,101
1941.. 19,749 10 „ ~ 15,000 4,749 7f,800
1942.. 17,988 10 ~ „ 15,000 2,988 80,838
Early in the year a new factory was
established at Adelaide, where only a dis-
tributing branch previously existed.
Though it made an unstated loss, this is
the almost-inseparable bedfellow of new
ventures at the outset, and the directors
are confident of the future.
Possessing associations with the over-
seas Paragon organisations which cover
most of the civilised world, the co. now
has efficient manufacturing facilities in
all mainland States, a subsidiary looking
after the Perth end. Hobart’s and Broken
Hill’s needs are met through selling
branches. All kinds of commercial sta-
tionery and office requisites are special-
ised in. Because of the advance of costs
and taxation, the continued war-time ex-
pansion in turnover finds little expression
in profits, down £1761 to £17,988 last
year. Struck after depreciation of £BOO2,
tax of £16,472 and sending £ll9l to staff
funds —provisions in total £1056 lighter —
the £17,988 was 12 p.c. on capital, against
13.1 p.c. the year before, and share-
holders received their sixth successive 10
p.c. In addition, a small undivided
balance is annually accumulating in the
books of the Westralian pup.
The business is comfortably financed:
1935. 1938. 1941. 1942.
Paid capital. . £lOO,OOO £125,000 £150,000 £150,000
18 ’ 287 * s.»
STi. - 238 838 ass as
Stock’. . • • 39,202 64,935 96,097 94,088
Book debts . . 24,687 40,929' 54,458 49,1-3
Cash & sundries 4,423 897 6,405 ,
Shaves, etc. .. 21,125 25,401 21,000 21,000
* Including unspecified provision foi insurance.
Depreciation looked after last year s ex-
pansion, the surplus (£125,231) of more


PATENTS.—Have you an Idea worth patenting?
Griffith, Hassel and Griffith, Patent Attorneys,
Asbestos House, Or. York and Barrack Streets, Sydney,
obtain Commonwealth and foreign patents.— Advt.
* * * *
DAVIES & COLLISON, Patent Attorneys, Collins
House, 360 Collins Street, Melbourne, 0.1. Austra-
lian and overseas Patents and Trade Marks.— Advt.
mm
mmmm
mm
rv‘
$323*;
■YOUR ASSETS
YOU never know when circum-
stances may alter the routine of
your affairs. And the threads of
your business, if left in unaccus-
tomed hands, may soon twist into
knotty problems. It is wise, there-
fore, to safeguard your interests by
appointing a competent business
organisation to manage your affairs.
The principals of Smith, Boydell 8C
Company act as attorneys, trustees,
executors, and agents under power
of attorney. No detail is overlooked
to render thorough and capable
service in the management and
supervision of the estates and per-
sonal businesses placed in their
charge. Write for an explanatory
brochure.
smnmmiieco
Principals: H. Landon Smith, Esq.
F. M. Boydell, A.1.C.A., A.C.I.S.
58 MARGARET ST., SYDNEY
SEND YOUR
ENQUIRIES FOR
MINING MACHINERY
STAMP BATTERIES
CONCENTRATORS
MAGNETIC SEPARATORS
AMALGAMATING TABLES
WATER FILTERS
EVERLASTING VALVES
ELECTRICAL EQUIPMENT
MOTORS AND SWITCHGEAR
GARBAGE DESTRUCTORS
“RENDROCK” AND OTHER
EXPLOSIVES
ALL CLASSES OF TOOLS.
GUTHRIDGE Pty. Limited,
10-12 Parramatta Road, Camperdown,
Sydney.
THE ELECTROLYTIC REFINING & SMELTING COMPANY
OF AUSTRALIA PROPRIETARY, LIMITED.
WORKS: PORT KEMBLA, N.S.W.
Purchasers of all Copper and Gold-bearing Materials
360 Collins Street, MELBOURNE. 25 O’Connell Street, SYDNEY.
M 4383. 86371.
A Letter to
CHEVROLET.
ju»e 6 '
1942
_oi manage r
n Genet* ai
_ Co yie.
6 * r>4visi° n
161 Tors Corpora^ 00
il Motors
lt . MicftlB 30 *
e ngVn eS ’* ,ero
. tM c fr.« 1
-» at •"; t a-.-** C» - T.^ 8 ° a
°“ r * r ,„.rt » *
and •• 10 ltoe «* r , vl *
chap ter coinP eteh
at such a t ri oe n-® vndedne »it through.
e i asm, oP . o s©eLn6
->*- * .„ u
,nich cnevr organist 100 V n this vital
oroud to nave Gh sVn cereW.
tt . aorner
ai Manag® T
General
Consistent, whole-hearted team-
work between Pratt & Whitney
and Chevrolet has made possible the production
record referred to in the letter reproduced
above. In Australia too, the men and women who
are General Motors-HolUen’s, working as a team
with many able and efficient independent manu-
facturers and suppliers, are producing in several
instances in record time an ever-widening range
of war supplies.
Victory is our Business
GENERAL MOTORS H 0 L D E H’S LTD.
Brisbane Sydney Melbourne Adelaide Perth
SAVE FOR VICTORY—BUY WAR BONDS
C763-2i
If any illustration in “THE BULLETIN” takes your fancy, write
to the MANAGER, who will quote you price for the original.
ALWAYS SMOOTH
CRAVEN A
10 for 1/1
20 for 2/2
A
mmmrn
i
A
v*mtw A
Australia asks for your money •
an enemy would take it.
Every £lO National Savings Bond
helps to keep you Free!
505, M APE SPECIALLY TO P REVENT SORE THROATS
or less liquids over outside liabilities lift-
ing £4630.
Restriction of retail sales may affect
the demand for dockets, etc., but man-
power and paper supplies are the main
concern at the moment. Sto'ck, however,
was maintained last year, and the board
is sanguine of representations made to
the Government about future supplies.
Optimism about the less-immediate future
is high:
Many departments of our business are in
their infancy, and we are sure that we will
be in a position when hostilities cease to
go forward to a vigorous period of growth.
Thus the board looks forward to making
its contribution to solution of the prob-
lems of armed and industrial demobilisa-
tion.
Though full accounts for 1941 have yet
to be distributed locally, North Kalgurli
(W.A.) ended another year last month.
Rough comparisons with the preceding
period aren’t possible, because halfway
through the term the method of present-
ing monthly returns was changed. There
was another substantial fall in treatment,
however, mostly in the second half,
crushings declining from 9000 tons in
July to 6200 in December. Progress re-
turns don’t indicate how far the move-
ment may continue, possibly because the
management doesn’t itself know, with
labor being filched right and left and min-
ing supplies becoming shorter and shorter.
The shares at 14s. nevertheless present
an opportunity to those with patience ;
they were once one of the most stable
of gold stocks at 225.-245. ,
» =!=*•
From London:
Committee of Great Boulder Shareholders’
Resumption Group has issued a further circular
pointing out the dangers in any scheme by the
liquidator that entails sale of the co.’s assets.
Disposal to a third party in these days, it
states, could result in little more than
sacrifice of shareholders’ assets, while sale’to
a new co. would mean that dissentient share-
holders would be faced with the choice of
accepting shares in a co. of which they did
not approve or perhaps unwillingly disposing
of their holdings under unfavorable conditions.
As regards a new board, the committee con-
siders it improper to place before shareholders
a scheme embodying a prearranged directorate,
as it believes it would be the vfish of share-
holders to make their own choice. The cir-
cular recalls that a Perth meeting convened
by Hal Colebatch overwhelmingly favored
co-operation with the London group in its
efforts to take control aWay from the liquidator
and return it to shareholders. In. appealing
for further support, the London committee
states that a body of shareholders in Britain,
representing a very substantial number of shares,
have signified their desire to support the group.
This committee now comprises A. Sim (chair-
man), W. H. Heath, G. Irvine, S. D. Hey and
Lt.-Col. N. Shand-Kydd.
* * * *
Wiluna, which has had a lot of ex-
perience in that sort of thing, has been
appointed to control antimony develop-
ment in the Nullagine (W.A.) holding of
Blue Spec Mines, for which the Com-
monwealth has advanced £15,000 at 4
p.c. interest. The money is specifically
for development and equipment inci-
dent to the production of the munitions
metal; Blue Spec has to make its own
arrangements to finance normal mine ex-
penditure, and another call is announced.
Ore reserves are put at 17,000 tons con-
taining 3 p.c. antimony (previously a
headache) and 17dwt. gold per ton ; lease
196 is also showing “satisfactory” widths
and values. Working as a goldmine, a loss
of £7219 showed up in the year to June.
Adelaide solicitor J. W. Nelligan joins the
board as Government nominee.
* * * *
Norseman Gold Mines (W.A.) is seeing
if its Higginsville scheelite mine has the
makings of a worth-while proposition.
Old workings have been cleaned up, rails
and pipes installed, drives well advanced,
timbering and other preparatory work for
sloping completed, and breaking and
transport of ore commenced. Treatment
of low-grade ore from development and
old workings started recently. At its
Iron iting mine, Norseman is also test-
ing the pyritic ore-body underlying the
lateritic ore capping for sulphur content.
Elemental sulphur for acid-making pre-
viously came from Japan, Sicily and
America. Only the last market is now
open, and is then restricted by the ship-
ping available.
* * • *
“O.B.” recalls the past;
Twelve months ago Consolidated Gold Areas
(W.A.) was brimful of optimism. Shareholders
were told that the plant had given greater effi-
ciency, that the co.’s White Hope mine had re-
sponded well to development, that the grade of
mill-feed had improved, and that values, disclosed
in No. 4 (bottom) level were considered by con-
sulting engineer McKeown to be tip-top. More-
over, delight was expressed because a De Ber-
nales concern hadn’t exercised its option on the
property. In its latest report co. is as enthusi-
astic as ever. McKeown declares that the
appearance of the mine is better than at any
period df its history, marked improvement
showing up below No. 4 level in width and
grade of ore. He estimates reserves at 41,600
tons of 7.3dwt. average. White Hope is the
property which at the height of the Hampton
Plains boom in 1921 Herbert Daly, then in con-
trol, said was one .of “nature’s goldmines with
a great future.” The market sniffed and shares
slumped. Chairman Harvey has been the resi-
dent mine boss for some time, and his work
is stated to have considerably improved finances.


m
\0
df
jJThE stainless steel which in pre-
war days brightened the up to date
kitchen is now playing a major part
in the construction of our Australian-
built planes. But this war won’t last
forever . , , and when peace returns
ARMCO Stainless Steel once more will
take its place in the equipment of
modern homes . . . and the steel sinks,
cabinets, ranges, and cooking utensils
will be even better
ARMCO
STAINLESS STEEL
ARMCO (AUSTRALIA) PTy. LTD.
SyONE/ . MELBOURNE , BRISBANE , ADELAIDE
because of ARMCO
war-time steel
research.
FOR BRIGHTER AND
BETTE’R POST-WAR LIVING . .
m
m
\
Business, Rollery, Etc.
Tyranny of Weakness
It has been suggested in Canberra that
the Federal Government, which has
cringed and crawled away from the re-
sponsibility of charging to the majority
of voters their share of the money cost
of the war, is to “increase substantially
the direct taxation for the remainder of
the current financial year.’’ There has
since been official hedging. War expendi-
ture for the first half of 1942-43 was at a
rate far in excess of the Budget estimates,
and the proportion even of those esti-
mates that was to be charged to loans
and “bank credit” was so high that it was
perfectly plain that the Government pre-
ferred to risk the financial security of
the country rather than endanger its own
political hide by doing the sensible,
honest thing—that is, finance war ex-
penditure (which is mostly economic
waste) to the greatest possible extent by
taxation.
The majority of Ministers in the
present Government know a great
deal more about politics than they
do about war, work or economics,
and politics is a game some of them are
playing pretty low down. Strikers and
absentees and the Minister for Labor
seem to be on the best of terms at times
when the idea of any unjustified impedi-
ment to the war effort outrages the feel-
ings of those who are doing their war-
time tasks to the best of their ability
for less ultimate reward than pre-war.
It is much the same with finance. The
Government is endeavoring to pay for
the war with the earnings and substance
of the willing and patriotic, and shirking
the job of taxing adequately (the only
method) the unwilling and the don’t-
cares. The latter, for the most part, are
making money out of the war.
The majority of Australians get out of
paying enough taxation simply because
they represent a majority. The minority
are taxed without feeling, scruple or,
frequently, justice. Australia has seven
million people, and not all of them, of
course, income-earners. But there are
no fewer than 2,780,000 income-earners in
the Commonwealth who earn £8 a week
and less —in total they receive £590 mil-
lion a year, about 70 p.c. of all incomes—
and who pay very small direct taxation
indeed. Those on £8 a week pay £57 a
year in income tax compared with £B5
in Maoriland, while in Britain the tax is
£BB and the post-war credit £23, making
the total contribution £lll. On £6 a
week the Australian tax is £32 a year,
M.L. £54 and British tax and p.-w. c. £66.
The number of Australians earning
between £4 and £8 a week is 1,480,000,
and they take as their share of the
nation’s income £430 million. That is
nearly half of the value of the national
production. On £4 a week the difference
between Australian tax and the British
compulsory contribution is £25 a year ;
on £8 the difference is £54 a year. If the
average contribution in Australia were
raised by £35 a year in the £4-£8 income
class alone it would yield an extra £52
million for war-finance purposes.
Up to £l5OO a year Australian taxes are
lighter than in Britain or M.L. At £2OOO
a year onward the picture changes, and
at £3OOO a year we see Australians pay-
ing £1599 in tax on personal-exertion in-
come, Britons £1462 (of which £6O is a
post-war credit), and Enzedders £1472.
From £2500 up to £20,000 a year Austra-
Han incomes bear the heaviest direct
taxes in the Allied world. In the lower
income ranges our tax rates are under
those of Britain, Canada or Maoriland —
in some cases far under.
Company tax is severe—6s. in the £
to start with, plus undistributed-profits
taxes and the War-time (Company) Tax.
The shareholder pays tax in full again
when he receives a dividend, this double
taxation being definite and unquestioned.
And yet when it comes to taxing the
greatest producing and consuming section
of the Australian people—those earning
£8 a week and under —the Government
shows its plain lack of guts and concern
for the country’s future by crawling
up a rabbit-hole and swigging into the
bank-credit bottle. The Government bor-
rows when it should tax, and when it
does tax it does so with an eye always
on the polling-booths. It exerts a tyranny
of weakness over the politically unrepre-
sented middle-class which constitutes such
a big factor in the industrial and
economic organisation of this country.
The Government proposed to spend
£440 million on war this year. It aimed
to raise £224 million by taxation, but
out of that £lO9 million of civil expendi-
ture had to be met, less £25 million of
business income. That left not much
more than £l4O million of tax money to
help pay for the war bill. So borrowing
of £3OO million was proposed. At best
not more than £2OO million will be got
from the public on loan this year, so
on the Budget figures a gap of £lOO mil-
lion at least was indicated, to be met by
the inflationary process of getting the
Commonwealth Bank to defer payment
of it by “credit creation.”
Now don’t let us be dazzled or con-
fused by those figures. They are digest-
ible, as a sum in arithmetic, by anyone
who can add and subtract. They show
that the Government failed to meet its
projected war expenditure out of current
revenue to the extent of £3OO million,
and that it proposed to borrow that
sum, at interest, to finance little more
than the expense of keeping our
forces in the field. Out of war expendi-
ture there certainly is some addition to
our assets, such as harbor works, roads
and aerodromes, but the major part of it
is waste, unproductive of any income.
It is to the Australian economy that
those figures are not digestible. The indi-
gestion is already partly evident in an
inflation of over 20 p.c. in living costs,
which has been added to the basic wage,
but the full effect has been kept in check
by artificial controls only possible in war-
time. Furthermore, those figures were
only Budget estimates. Already the posi-
tion is far more strained.
To begin with, war expenditure in
1942-43 is going to be a great deal more
than the £440-million estimate. For the
first five months of the period it ran into
£207 million, an average of £492 million
a year. But for October and November
the average war outgo was £47 million a
month, and if that rate is maintained for
the other seven months of the financial
year the war bill will be £536 million,
up £96 million on estimates. That will
mean, unless additional taxation is levied
“and levied in the right quarter —that
inflationary borrowing and straightout in-
flation will run into nearly £4OO million
this financial year. It is fantastic.
In its last annual report the Common-
wealth Bank said; “Surplus spending
power should be substantially reduced by
taxation or saving on a much larger scale
than in 1941-42.” It had in mind the fact
that payment for war expenditure by
borrowing and bank credit had the effect
of placing additional spending power in
the hands of consumers rather than taking
it away. War demands have been re-
moving from the reach of the people
many of the things on which they usually
spend their money—a defence appropria-
tion of £5OO million means the swallow-
ing of nearly half our national production
—but this real taxation of our living
standards has not been accompanied by
parallel monetary taxation. Since the
volume and value of Australian money
are based on production and similar
factors, what the Government has failed
to do in the matter of honest, blunt taxa-
tion will be done by inflation, creeping
on us like a thief in the night for the
period of war-time Spending controls and
like a blatant bushranger afterwards.
What could have been done during the
buoyant period of war-time employment
without deceit, humbug or undue hard-
ship will happen with added cost, distress,
confusion and unemployment when the
whole rotten dereliction of duty by the
present Government is made apparent by
its inevitable results.
Up to June 30 last Australia had gone
into debt to the extent of £339 million
to finance this war. In the ensuing
quarter —to Sept. 30—another £B7 million
was added to our 1939-42 war debt. If
that rate of going into debt is maintained
for the remaining three-quarters of the
year, in this one year we shall have more
than doubled the total for the first three
years of the war. This is the result of
weak, unrealistic and “easy” finance as
practised by a Government which is for-
ever exhorting the public to pull itself
together and face up to the war situation,
with the instruction that “resoluteness
must be the keynote of the Australian
character”!
While this nation is rapidly going into
great debt because of the war and weak
finance management, for the same reason
millions of pounds are rolling into the
savings-bank accounts of lightly-taxed
munition workers and the like every
month. From March this year up to
November no less than £46 million was
added to deposits in Australian savings
banks, and that is in addition to notes
and other currency hoarded outside the
banks and the money put into war loans.
The picture is substantially this: (1) The
nation is growing poorer because of war
wastage, (2) the Government is going
fast into debt, but (3) the great mass of
consumers have more money than they
ever possessed in their lives. In view of
(1) and (2), item (3) shows something to
be preposterously wrong. It is impossible
for a people to be any better off than
the nation they represent, and their
war “savings,” much of which should
have been taken long ago in taxation,
will eventually be contaminated by the
decaying state of the country’s credit
and be worth just as much.
Talk of further taxation by Canberra
now will be received with suspicion by
those who know the Government’s record
until they get the details. With so many
jackasses in the Ministry, and so many
voters who have been deprived of their
political backbone and brains by Labor’s
“softening” and “scrambling” tactics for
years past, taxation of the right kind is
the most urgently needed economic disci-
pline of the present time. The right kind
of taxation is indicated here.


Queensland
Insurance Co.
Ltd.
Head Office:
Pitt &c Bridge Streets,
Sydney.
The Largest
Australian Company
Transacting
Fire, Marine, Accident, House-
holders’ Comprehensive, Workers’
Compensation, Boiler Explosion,
Machinery Breakdown, Aviation,
etc.
Legal Notice.
EVELYN KATE McMURRAY deceased
daughter of Robert James King and Catherine
King (born Ryan) also called Kathleen Eliza-
beth King or Kathleen Dunmore King.—PUR-
SUANT to an Order of the Supreme Court of
New South Wales in Equity dated the 17th June
1941 and made in a suit (No. 156 of 1941)
intituled “In the matter of the Trusts of the
Will and Codicil thereto of Evelyn Kate
McMurray formerly of Point Piper near Sydney
in the State of New South Wales Widow de-
ceased—Between Perpetual Trustee Company
(Limited) and Clifford Minter Plaintiffs and Wil-
liam Robert Walker and W. Richey McMurray
Defendants” whereby the following inquiry was
directed namely: That it be referred to the
Master in Equity to inquire who were the
persons entitled according to the Statutes for the
Distribution of Intestate Estates to that portion
of the estate of the said Testatrix (Evelyn Kate
McMurray) as to which she died intestate living
at her death and whether any of them are since
dead and if so who are their respective legal
personal representatives NOTICE IS HEREBY
GIVEN that all persons claiming to be entitled
under the said inquiry are to send by post pre-
paid to Perpetual Trustee Company (Limited)
Hunter Street Sydney N.S.W. Australia so as
to reach it on or before the 15th October 1943
their full Christian and surnames addresses and
descriptions and full particulars of their claims
or in default thereof they will be excluded from
the benefit of the said Order unless the Court
or a Judge or the Master in Equity on appli-
cation otherwise orders Claimants are t£ attend
personally or by their solicitor before the Master
in Equity at the Supreme Court Elizabeth Street
Sydney aforesaid on the Bth November 1943 at
11 a.m. being the time appointed for adjudicat-
ing upon the claims. A claimant not residing
in New South Wales must send with particulars
of his claims the name and address of a person
in New South Wales to whom notices to the
claimant can be sent. DATED the 10th day
of December, 1942.—MINTER, SIMPSON &
CO., Solicitors for the Plaintiffs, 31 Hunter
Street, Sydney, Australia.
BRAIMDALER'S
*
M
e>
Ctt.V
PENS
Every point
guaranteed
do not experiment with imitations.
a BBANDADCR * CO, Ud_ BIRMINGHAM. ENG
RUPTURE
NO PADS—NO SPRINGS
acts
LIKE THE HHIID
The latest invention of Dr.
L. Barrere is the result of 40
years’ practice and improve-
ments. Stupendous success
of new method of control.
The NEO-BARRERE acts
like the hand when placed
flat upon the orifice. You
will at once without
effort and in all move-
ments hold the intes-
tine in its cavity.
Write To-day for
FREE LITERATURE.
FAERERE DISTRIBUTION CO.
(Dept. 2), 213 ELIZABETH ST., SYDNEY.
dfd
/A/S
/
(J
dr****?.
do
100
oIM
ru*
lh~
AT
\do
A.
It
fd
gj—uMtr*
\6O
M
<r%
440
un
n*£
\%O
N
IOQ
00
60
40
to
l,fß
, r .. address^
•« u a nd c°me; » Roose ve *•
• uoper r . Q £ c so re *H®
ru e w Secret ar V a, c oun*rV** r V*
’“P over ** - «,7
»jr£ -t I **«**£•* Fr
DUNLOP RECOMMENDS
A SPEED LIMIT Qfl
UU m.p.h.
WHICH MEANS NORMAL
TYRE LIFE
40%
ISSUED IN THE NATIONAL INTEREST BY
DUNLOP
RUBBER AUSTRALIA LIMITED
H 8.779
The next Commonwealth war loan will
be put on the market in March. It is
expected to be a big one.
%*♦ ‘ *
The rumors of increased taxation that
exuded from Canberra last week caused
Treasurer Chifley some agitation. There
were reports that the rate of a new war
tax would range from 6d. in the £ on
incomes of £156 a year to Is. 6d. at
£3OO. Mr. Chifley was later quoted as
saying that some speculation was “wide
of the mark.” One thing seemed definite
enough: Whatever taxation is levied will
be on current, not past, income, because
of the Curtin promise not to lift taxa-
tion on 1941-42 income. It is time the
Government gave serious consideration
to the question of levying all income tax
in the year of income. The lag year is
going to make it very difficult for many
people to pay war-time taxes on a post-
war income. This with particular refer-
ence to thousands of munition workers.
* * * *
In advocating a system of post-war
credits as an additional means of gather-
ing urgently needed war funds, John M.
White, secretary of the N.S.W, Tax-
payers’ Association, said last week that
to allow excess spending power to remain
in the hands of people eager to improve
their living standards at this time was
to deny and nullify the war effort. He
added that it was increasingly obvious
that people on lower incomes who had
been taxed lightly or not at all must be
called on to pay a portion of their in-
comes in taxation comparable to those
on higher incomes.
* * * *
At November 30 Australian savings-
bank deposits were up to £306 million, an
increase of £4| million during the month
and a lift of £40.6 million during the
year to that date. Since March the
growth has been £46.2 million. Net sub-
scriptions to war-savings certificates have
now reached £30.2 million —up £9.6 mil-
lion over 12 months. The note issue in
the hands of the public is around
£lO4 million, up £35 million over the
year and about £7O million greater than
pre-war. There has been a considerable
hoarding of specie as well. The amount
of public, as opposed to bank, subscrip-
tion to Government loans since war
began is not nowadays disclosed. Total
subscriptions represent some bank
money, which is a secondary investment
of customers’ deposits, plus “bank credit.”
* * *
B.H.P. shares became active on ’Change
last week when the price fell a penny or
two below the “high” imposed by
Treasury. This “high” of 40s. has been
set for the duration, and the fact that,
on present conditions, sellers will not be
able to get more than 40s. for an indefi-
nite but lengthy period may be prompt-
ing some sales in certain financial cir-
cumstances.
* * * *
The offer by Bond’s Industries, Ltd.,
to give 100 6 p.c, cum, prefs. or 80 prefs.
and 20 ords. in exchange for each £lOO
debenture issued (B. 9/12/ ’42) has
been accepted by holders of about
£400,000-worth of the £512,000 deben-
ture issue. The remainder will be paid
off “as soon as possible.”
* * * *
Priminister Curtin says that “in coming
months,” in order to conserve man-
power, it will be necessary to restrict
further the quantity of goods available
for civilians. The number of persons
transferred from their ordinary way of
living to war service or war jobs since
Labor took office is put at 500,000. Away
from transferring more men from pri-
vate industry (some sections of which
have been drawn on too much, others
not enough), the whole of the Govern-
ment services should be overhauled. It
would probably surprise if the number
of medically unfit men in the army and
labor corps were realised and the number
of fit men in the civil service. Further-
more, there,is far too much staff in the
civil service. And that applies particu-
larly to the Department of the Interior
and the Division of Import Procurement,
.** * *
Airlines of Australia has been merged
with Australian National Airways, a con-
cern which held £91,229 (including £5OOO
deferred) of the £114,937 capital in the
Airlines co. The holders of the remain-
ing capital (£23,708) in the Airlines co.
will retain their shares in that co., which
will finish up with its principal asset
23,708 shares in A.N.A. Its ’planes, etc.,
will pass outright to its former chief
shareholder and business confrere for a
consideration equal to the shareholding
and which cancels itself out. Last term
the Airlines co. paid an ord. div. (the
first) of 7 p.c. It is anticipated by
the board that divs. on the shares held in
A.N.A, (share for share) will show a
higher return than if Airlines continued
operations on its own account. A.N.A.
pty. was formed in Melbourne by Orient
Steam, Union Steam, Huddart Parker,
Adelaide Steam and Holyman Bros.


THE SERVICE MAN
"In Its Final Phase."
“Ek Dum”: By January 8 events had
moved so far ahead in Buna as to enable
the Allied Command to issue a summary
in which it described the Papuan cam-
paign as “in its final phase.”
The Sanananda position was com-
pletely enveloped. A remnant of the
enemy’s forces there was “faced with cer-
tain destruction.” With its elimination,
Papua would be “entirely cleared of the
enemy.”
Stirring news, conveyed in simple sen-
tences, but the victory was bought with
svyeat and blood. Many splendid young
Australians and Americans breathed their
last among the kunai and the swamp
along the five or six miles of the Soputa
track and its environs which had been
won only in seven weeks of desperate
fighting and consolidating. Even now
there is two miles to go, and two miles
at the Buna end cost a lot of lives.
The communique, however, continued
that one of the primary objectives, the
annihilation of General Horii’s Japanese
army, “could now be regarded as ac-
complished.”
That army had comprised identified
elements of the following units: From
the 55th Division, the 144th Infantry, 55th
Engineers, 47th A.-A. Artillery, 55th
Mountain Artillery, 55th Cavalry, 14th
and 15th Construction Units, 9th Pon-
toon Unit and 55th Medical and Service
Units ; from the sth Division, the 41st
Infantry; from the 38th Division, the
228th and 229th Infantry; from the
104th Division, the 170th Infantry. Also
three landing units from the great naval
bases of Yokosuka, Sasebo and Kure. In
effect there seem to have been eight bat-
talions of infantry, including three land-
ing battalions, backed by everything
necessary to make up a self-contained in-
vasion task force.
Numbers were officially placed at about
15,000. In addition, several thousand
troops were drowned in attempts to land.
These forces fought till they were
nearly wiped out. Few Japanese wounded
have been found and few prisoners have
been taken.
As for enemy ’planes, 333 were de-
stroyed, 89 probably destroyed and 117
damaged after July 23 ; and six cruisers,
13 destroyers, a destroyer tender, two sea-
plane tenders, two gunboats, 44 large-
to-medium merchant ships, 39 small-to-
medium merchant ships and 150 to 200
landing barges were destroyed or
severely damaged.
Allied losses were not given. Mr.
Curtin told Parliament that up to Dec.
1 Australia’s in the area were 640
killed and 1550 wounded or . otherwise
casualties. These figures excluded the
losses at Rabaul in January last year and
the sick list, which has been heavy.
The heaviest fighting has taken place
since Dec. 1. Australia’s losses, particu-
larly those of the A.1.F., were severe.
Those great fighters were barely given
time to see their wives, children and
parents after their long absence in the
Middle East before they were called on
to bear the brunt of the New Guinea
fighting. No four days at Christmas or
lawless Jan. 1 loaf for them.
When the defence area was cleared
Buna presented a terrible sight. There
was scarcely a foot of ground which had
not seen blood spilt. Australian 25-
pounders, used at point-blank 1000-yards
range, had in places turned the landscape
into a huge wound, and bomb medicine
had made the fetid dugouts spew up
their horrors. There were enemy corpses
everywhere —hanging in trees, littering
the ground, rolling in the surf.
General Blarney, who has seen the
world’s greatest battlefields in all their
lethal freshness, viewed the scene and
afterwards used his impressions to drive
home the size and stiffness of the task
ahead.
Allied losses in the battle, he said, had
been considerable, though not so heavy
as those of the enemy. After two days
inspection, he found himself convinced
that the enemy had prepared the beach-
head as a base from which to attack
Milne Bay and the whole of Papua,
The fight had been purely an action
of infantry—mobile infantry against in-
fantry in strongly defended positions,
On a normal battlefield, artillery support
would have been considerably greater,
Difficulties of transport stood in the
way; hence light tanks had had to be
brought in for support,
And though he doubted whether the
Japs would have fought so well in the
open, fight they did and with a tenacity
about which there was “something bar-
barian” and difficult for a European to
understand. The general instanced two
cases in which Australians who had
attempted to help badly wounded
enemies had been bitten by them,
The Japanese, he said, had been well
fed and supplied right up to Dec. 31.
Apart from other shibboleths, the long
and weary battle, not yet finished, has
disposed of the furphy born in Malaya
that our tenacious enemy can fight only
when he is winning.
Time and Japan.
“Ek Dum”: Mr. Joseph Grew, for-
merly U.S. ambassador to Tokyo, pegging
away on a subject vital to these
Dominions:
Time is the most dangerous weapon we
can give Japan. Blows against Hitler must
be combined with a policy of “fight now”
in the Pacific. Merely stopping the Japa-
nese won’t defeat them. Unless the weapon
of time can be knocked out of the
enemy’s hands the Empire of Hirohito may
become truly invincible.
This is the solemn warning of an
authority who knows Japan as well as
any man alive, and whose previous warn-
ings went unheeded, though in the event
they proved disastrously right.
In the war in the Pacific, now in its
fourteenth month, not one action has
been fought by the Allies, whether on sea
or land, which had not a defensive pur-
pose.
Though the Japanese a year ago
established a base at Rabaul, not 1100
miles from the Australian coast, and
though that base and the approaches to
it have been under attack, the enemy is
not merely there, but in ten times the
strength in which he made his first land-
ing.
Every Japanese stronghold in the
south-west Pacific has been attacked again
and again. Every attack, save a couple
of naval battles, has been won by the
Allies, and losses of enemy naval and air-
craft strength have been reported greatly
beyond anything in the experience of
fighting on a similar scale in the European
sea and air war. Yet no Japanese
stronghold, save part of Guadalcanal, had
fallen into Allied hands until Buna was
captured after desperate fighting. To win
both Guadalcanal and Buna the Allies
had almost literally to annihilate the de-
fenders. And the enemy is still able to
dispute command of the air over the
northern approaches to Papua, and appar-
ently has a complete naval monopoly
north of the Louisiades and west of New
Ireland, in the New Guinea zone.
Even while the fight for Buna was
going on, new enemy bases were dis-
covered along the New Guinea coasts.
On the west there is news of reinforce-
ment of Timor. There is next to no
news of what is happening in Amboina,
the Arus, the Kais and Tenimbar, 200
miles off the North Australian coast —
except that on Wednesday R.A.A.F. Hud-
sons disabled a gunboat in the Kais, and
on Friday returned and broke it in
halves.
To the southern part of Dutch New
Guinea the Jap has hitherto given little
attention.
His recent heavy raids on Merauke, the
outpost of Allied air forces, however, are
similar to those which were made on
the Tulagi area and on Moresby and
Lae before the advance to the New
Guinea mainland and Guadalcanal.
At Merauke the invaders would be
less than 200 miles from the Fly estu-
ary, They could reach its interior
waters by making up the Merauke River
in small boats to Bassa Mirat or some
other village in the region. After a jour-
ney of 40 miles or so across country to
the Strickland junction, nearly 200 miles
inland from the Fly mouth, they would
find two great river arteries available to
lead them into the high interior. Once
they reached the agricultural plateaux
they could live on the country, even if
in some force.
Though there is no indication that an
invasion fleet has been prepared off Timor
or any of the conquered territory nearer
to Australia, these would not necessarily
be the points at which invasion would
be prepared for.
Enemy reconnaissances, both naval and
by air, unquestionably have been pushed
cheekily and extensively round the North
Westralian coast. For that matter, on
the east their reconnaissances have
touched the fringe of the Central Queens-
land electorate of the Minister for the
Army.
On the East
Since the Coral Sea battle, and despite
reverses, the enemy has established new
bases at the western end of New Britain
so as to be able to assail anything pass-
ing through Vitiaz and Dampier Strait.
He has established himself in a ring of
strongpoints right round the Bismarck
archipelago, and the Allied air activity
has testified to the importance of what
is going on there. The points which have
been attacked have been all of great
strategic importance. The Jap seems to
have secured himself at Wewak. He has
Madang, a good harbor in fertile coun-
try ; the enemy undoubtedly will have
made considerable progress inland from
it towards the Ramu.
He holds Kavieng, in New Ireland,
which he must have infiltrated thoroughly
both by sea and along Bulowinski’s road,
and Lorengau on Manus in the Admir-
alty group.
RabauFs Strength
The position at Rabaul speaks for
itself. It has been repeatedly assaulted
from the air, as frequently by night as
in the daytime, a point which advertises
its strength against daylight attack even
by high-level bombers. It is a concen-
trated harbor round which hills, largely
volcanoes, alive or dead, rise in an almost
continuous palisade. They are covered
with dark foliage. The incessant mois-
ture and volcanic disturbance —there is
an earthquake of sorts almost every day
—the smoke of the volcanoes and other
elements often make visibility from above
about as favorable as that in the second
storey of Sheol.
Last week the official communique re-
ported that “our heavy bombers attacked
shipping in the harbor and destroyed nine
vessels for certain and probably another,
of a total certainly of over 50,000 tons.”
One ship was a destroyer tender with a
destroyer tied alongside. It was hit by a
10001 b. bomb, and eight other ships were
left either enveloped in smoke or sinking
after having been hit by 10001 b. bombs.
Six interceptor ’planes were shot down
and only one Allied bomber was missing.
A heartening achievement, culmination
of a series which since Dec. 27 wiped out
16 enemy ships.
But the day after this raid it was
recorded that the concentration of ship-
ping in Rabaul Harbor was the greatest
since the war began. So it is—of such
a size that it is consistent with a plan
for the invasion of Australia proper.
Again, the Solomons, save the extreme
south, are in enemy hands, and, in spite
of the hard naval knocks administered,
the northern sectors are teeming with
Japanese shipping.
The Japs lost the airfield which they
left half complete on Guadalcanal. They
are going on with the construction of
an even larger air base at Munda, on
New Georgia, though the presence
of Allied forces in the Tulagi area is a
severe brake on operations.
A Convoy’s Fate
The raid on Rabaul took place in day-
light on Tuesday, January 5. Next day
a strong Japanese convoy was sighted
making towards the eastern end of New
Guinea from south of Gasmata (180
miles air line from Rabaul), and in a
position consistent with its having set
out from Rabaul the previous evening.
It was made up of two cruisers, four
destroyers and four transports, the largest
estimated at about 14,000 tons.
These ships were under a veritable
cloud of protective aircraft. At every
attack the Allied ’planes which shadowed
the expedition were met by anything from
five to 14 “O” fighters, and the warships
were heavily defended from their own
decks.
The first onslaught was made by a
single Flying Fortress, guarded by Light-
nings, which shot down four “Os.” Early
on Thursday morning, a Catalina
R.A.A.F. captain reported that he had set
a transport on fire. Also:
Vessel 12,000 to 14,000 tons bombed.
Listing 30 degrees. Severe explosions.
No survivors. She’s had it.
The Catalina is not a peculiarly suit-
able ship for this kind of job. She is rela-
lively slow, and has a great wing area to
draw a bead on. This one was a veteran ;
so were her captain, a Mosman lad (Flight-
Lieut. David Vernon) who had learned
his trade with the British Coastal Com-
mand in a pioneer Sunderland, and most
of her Australian crew of eight.
An H.Q. communique confirmed the
fact that the second vessel hit had sunk
and that she was loaded with troops.
The first vessel hit was later officially
pronounced a total loss. Japanese war-
ships turned their searchlights on the
sinking wrecks, but left them after mak-
ing no attempt to search for survivors.
On Friday General MacArthur re-
ported that 18 enemy fighters had defi-
nitely been shot down, but the balance
of the convoy, still under fire, was pro-
ceeding towards Lae. It was pursued right
into the harbor, while Allied ’planes not
only rained down bombs and fought off
enemy aircraft, but blasted the whole of
the Lae landing area, which is very much
exposed—there is no harbor in the ordi-
nary sense of the word —and caused
serious losses of facilities and Japanese
personnel. Another transport was sunk
and the remaining one had its stern
damaged by a hit from heavy bombers
and was beached.
The air fighting developed into the
heaviest of the South Pacific campaign.
The enemy lost 84 ’planes for certain
and “probably” 29 more and had 19
damaged in the many raids which the
Allies made on the convoy, besides eight
wrecked and seven damaged on the
ground.
In one swoop seven Lightnings bagged
four “Os” out of 20, probably wrecked
another three and damaged five. Allied
losses were accounted “not heavy.”
But the warships appear to have been
able to get away under cover of dark-
ness —with two merchantmen which had
joined them in the port —because of their
strong armament, and some troops were
landed. The official communique de-
clared that it was believed that they were
“fragmentary.” The balance of the con-
voy reached New Britain.
There can be no safety for Australia
till the enemy has been thrown out of
Rabaul. But national consciousness of
this is vague.
Wang Declares War
Wang Ching Wei, head of the Nan-
king Government, has declared war on
the Allies. It is scarcely a matter for
good clean fun. A puppet Government
sitting back in an unwilling alliance with
the Japanese and doing their bidding,
but adopting a passive role in the actual
fighting against Chiang Kai-shek’s armies,
is one thing. A Northern Government
armed by the Japanese and actually join-
ing in the war, perhaps relieving the Japs
altogether of the necessity for more than
a token force in China, is another.
All the resources of eastern Asia are
in Japan’s hands. The enemy has rubber,
oil, iron enough to equip an army of
any size. He has the man-power of his
own empire and of Manchuria and
Northern China to draw on. And he has
a neutrality agreement with Russia,
which at the same time is draining from
Britain and U.S. the arms —above all,
’planes—vitally necessary to protect Aus-
tralians and New Zealanders.
So, as Mr. Grew says, what Japan most
needs is time to put its vast new wealth
of raw materials to effective use.
Every ounce of Allied effort, and par-
ticularly of Australian effort, must be
applied to the job of robbing Tojo of
that time.
Delays in North Africa.
“Ek Dum”: The Axis effort in Africa
should be a warning to those whom Left-
Wingers are trying to persuade that the
enemy is beaten on other fronts, and that
it needs only a landing in western Europe
to push him over the gap. And the effect
of the weather on Anglo-American opera-
tions on both sides of the Tunisian fron-
tier is worthy of study and comparison.
Unluckily rain not merely favors a land
army in retreat, but it is all on the side
of the foe who has main bases a short
strip of sea away from the fighting area,
since it provides a cloak for their opera-
tions.
The Axis, with fine naval harbors in
its possession, is able to toss men and
materials into the actual battle area from
the sea. The Allies, after their long sea
voyage, have to carry their men and
supplies from Bone, their nearest port,
over about 150 miles of rain-soaked ter-
rain, much of it in mountain country.
Every ship or cargo-carrying ’plane
which the Axis can keep in commission
on the Sicilian route —which, incidentally,
is under the cover of land-based fighter
protection all the way—is worth a dozen
Allied ships or ’planes. It is 140 miles
across the strait from Marsala in Sicily
to Tunis and Bizerta, and not 200


CD
cun
miles from Palermo, so that by air the
journey is only an hour and by sea it
can be compassed by freighters in from
nine to 12 hours. And the aerodromes
of the islands of Pantellaria and Lampe-
dusa (which the R.A.F. blasted last week)
flank each side of the 220-mile route
from southern Sicily to Sfax and Susa.
The R.A.F. is the only antidote to
operations over this route. The roar of
its bombs has been heard above the
clamor of Palermo, which normally
sounds like a kerosene-tin inferno.
Rome Radio spoke with bated breath
about the raid on Palermo on Jan. 7, and
mentioned that 64 persons were killed
and 262 injured when a great section
of the harbor installations was blown
up. Moreover, Tunis, Bizerta, Sfax and
Susa have been under constant fire.
Even in air organisation, however, the
Axis has the advantage. It can use the
established and well-equipped aerodromes
laid down by Kesselring’s Germans in
Sicily in 1941-42, while the Allies, who
normally would find landing grounds
ready made by nature, have been com-
pelled by the rain to lay down fields
hastily in the mud.
As to the land fighting, it still remains
for history to tell whether the Allied
Command actually proposed to make an
immediate attempt to assault Tunis and
Bizerta.
In view of their early liaison with the
North African French, the leaders must
have known what was happening, and
have learned something of the strength
of the enemy nucleus. Their plans
must have been made with the pos-
sibility in view that the enemy would
get possession of the French fleet; also
that there would be political problems
to cope with (they have become very
awkward since the assassination of
Darlan) which would make a thorough
consolidation of the military situation
in Algeria, Morocco and West Africa
and the rel-equipment of naval bases
their first consideration. Moreover, even
if Bizerta and Tunis and the ports to the
south were taken at once, the British-
U.S. forces would be only on the thresh-
old of their task. Destruction of the
French fleet, which might have used
Bizerta, made haste less necessary.
Delay, even if it strengthens the Axis,
may in the end prove an advantage. The
more Axis troops prepared to fight it
out ultimately in Africa the better.
Allied supplies are coming to the ports
of French North and West Africa. Allied
sea traffic along the Libyan coast is un-
interrupted. Ships can get through to
Malta, which is an offensive base, and
Rommel is still in retreat.
The French North African armies are
being re-equipped and some units are
already fighting.
The army of General Le Clerc has
travelled more than 1000 miles north-
ward from Lake Chad to within 250
miles of Tripoli, and is clearing up enemy
posts in southern Tripolitania. After
violent fighting, during the week it cap-
tured Oum el Araneb and took some
hundreds of prisoners. Unfortunately,
it is in no great force.
A*t the week-end the spearhead of
General Montgomery’s Eighth Army was
reported in contact with the enemy 70
miles from Misurata and 180 from
Tripoli. The R.A.F. was well ahead,
gunning columns only 40 miles from
Tripoli itself. On Dec. 11 Allied bombers
were active over the whole of the routes
between Buerat and Tunis.
The Eighth Army will necessarily have
to do some large and careful consolidat-
ing and bring up a heavy burden of sup-
plies over a long road before it can risk
tackling the Tripoli defence area.
In the situation brought about by the
landings in North Africa the Axis cannot
give up the second-largest coastal city and
port between Alexandria and Algiers
without a desperate struggle. The poli-
tical effect of expulsion on Turkey and
the Moslem world would be great.
The news from Tunisia is vague and
not very satisfactory. It is reported that
the results of the weather are such that
it will be some weeks before full-scale
operations are possible, even if sufficient
forces are available.
The Germans are said to have landed a
full panzer division, and the total Axis
strength is placed by some sources as
high as 60,000.
The enemy has been strong enough to
capture important hill positions west of
Mateur, so placed as to menace Allied
approaches to the southern part of the in-
vestment perimeter. And he did it with
such a force and resisted counter-
assaults so strongly as to prove that he
has a considerable army and is ready
for major positional warfare on the edges
of 3000 to 4000 square miles of country
which he holds, apart from the East
Tunisian coastal area and much of the
eastern inland district, where both Ameri-
can and French drives, which, earlier,
were much overadvertised, seem to have
been held up.
It is no use disguising the fact that
the enemy holds almost all ports and
major resources worth while from a cam-
paigning viewpoint in Tunisia. At best,
the Allies have only strong footholds,
and their approaches are difficult and
diffused, because of the mountainous
nature of the country.
The German Radio has been concerned
with the concentration of a “vast”
British convoy and fleet at Gibraltar.
Generally speaking, Berlin appears to
be more interested for the moment in
the North African and sea war than in
Russia.
Still Pushing Forward.
The Russians are still hitting out
valiantly in the greatest cause in which
patriot soldiers can fight, that of the
liberation of their native soil and fellow-
countrymen. The main thrusts last
week seemed to transfer themselves
to the Caucasus. The capture of Mos-
dok was followed by that of Nalchik, a
comparatively recent German prize, and
much ground was regained on the bleak,
wide Kalmuck steppes.
Save for one or two little villages
by the Volga side, only one place
in this salty waste had been mentioned
during the enemy advance to the
Caucasus and Stalingrad—“the village of
Elista,” which the Germans were said
to have reached. Most newspaper maps
till December showed the Germans hold-
ing in the Kalmuck steppes only a narrow
corridor reaching down to where the
newspapers thought Elista should be.
Now Elista has become a “capital,”
and Russian armies are pictured by cor-
respondents as romping all over spaces
which they were supposed to hold any-
way. The fact seems to be that the
enemy got much closer to the Caspian
than was revealed before winter came
down and the situation changed.
Meanwhile further successes came in
the Central Don area. Two towns on
the Rostov-Stalingrad railway, Moro-
sovsk and Chernyskshev, were taken, and
in Chernyskshev the Russians found
“enormous stores.”
These included 17 aeroplanes—the
same number as in Kotelnikovo —
2,000,000 shells and 500,000 bombs. The
town with the long name had been previ-
ously unknown to fame and to most
atlases. Correspondents declared that the
booty in the place would “greatly assist
in stoking the Soviet fires” and that “the
enormous captures of booty are weaken-
ing the German resistance.” Unfortu-
nately no captures so far recorded would
have much material effect on the supply
of a million men. Regarding shells, even
on the Somme in 1918, when shells were
still slowly made and precious, and guns
were slower in delivery than now, the
standard six-hour bombardment used
70.000 shells, from 181 b. to superheavies,
for every mile of front. And shells and
bullets are of use only when sufficient
enemy weapons are captured to fire them.
By Thursday the Russians had taken
Tsymlyanskaya, and by the week-end
they were moving closer to the Donetz
Junction with a parallel drive farther south
on the Sal. In the Caucasus, fighting
was in progress in Georgievsk, 130 miles
s.-e, of Armavir.
Tsym (etc.) was the Germans’. main
bridgehead on the South Don during their
original drive to Stalingrad via Kotelni-
kovo. Before winter, it was important as a
crossing-place. With the coming of the
freeze, it has lost some of that import-
ance, since the Don is frozen over and
will be for another 70 days or so, and
thus may be crossed anywhere by fairly
heavy traffic.
On Thursday Moscow issued a special
communique which stated that between
January 1 and 5, “south and s.-w. of
Stalingrad,” 174 tanks, 115 ’planes, over
2000 guns, machine and otherwise, and
large numbers of lorries and trucks had
been captured or destroyed, “more than
20.000 enemy officers and men killed
alone” and 6500 captured.
Thus since Nov. 19 prisoners in ihe
Stalingrad region had reached 144,150.
“Killed alone” to January 5 were just
over 200,000. Last week’s losses on the
middle Don and in the Caucasus were
not included, but seemingly few prisoners
were taken.
Italians, Rumanians and Hungarians
must be among the 144,150 prisoners, but
their numbers have not been given. It
would be no mystery if bodies of satel-
lite troops turned it in. Hungarians are
made of sterner stuff than Italians and
Rumanians, but even they must be won-
dering what good can come to them cr
their distant country out of a second
winter on the steppes.
The least successful of the Russian
drives has been that on the central front.
There the Germans claim to be still
defending Velikiye Luki.
Unofficial Reports
In the reporting of the gallant offen-
sive which has now lasted nearly two
months, correspondents writing at second-
hand have gone far beyond the mattei
published in official bulletins. Their
credibility has to be assessed in the light
of the fact that they did not know that
Timoshenko had been superseded by
Zhukov. They gave Timoshenko all the
credit. It should also be borne in
mind that the most extravagant asser-
tions have appeared in Second-Front
papers, and have coincided with a jour-
nalist outbreak of complaints and sneers
concerning the campaign in North Africa.
No military observers seem yet to have
been allowed to view large-scale fighting
on the Russian front —not even those of
Britain and the U.S.A., which have sup-
plied much of the materials which have
gone into Russian fighting.
Comrade Fisher, Australia’s “represen-
tative,” did broadcast that General
Hurley, the U.S. High Commissioner in
Maoriland, had called newspapermen to-
gether in Moscow and had told them, after
a visit to the Stalingrad front, that he
had been treated there with as much
openness as if he had been an officer of
the Red Army, had been supplied with
all official maps to aid him in following
the battle, and had been pleased and
impressed with what the Red Army was
doing.
But Comrade Fisher seemed to be the
only correspondent who felt that this was
worth publishing. And a few days after-
wards Mr. Fisher disappeared off the air.
Stalingrad the Test
The processes of the advance and
retreat become every day mechanically
more like those of an ordered —if arduous
and expensive—Axis withdrawal.
A line drawn across the Russian map
from Voronezh to near Millerovo,
Kamensk and Novocherkassk, to east of
Rostov and down the edges of the Stav-
ropol (Voroshilovsk) hills to the Caucasus
near Elbruz marks the eastern boundary
of all great industry in the German-
held territory; also of the Kuban wheat
country. It fences off in German hands
the huge cement resources of Novorossisk
and the Maikop oilfields and Krasnodar
and Armavir refineries, and the Kerch
Strait short cut via the Crimea.
This line has been touched by the
Russian advance only in the north, and
there it has stopped dead, at least for
the time being.
It remains to be seen whether this
boundary region will be passed or reached
by the Red Army further south.
If Hitler’s armies establish a winter
front on it or some other line near
Stalingrad, they will whatever the
retreat has cost them —have to hold only
600 miles from Rostov south, instead of
1100 miles, which they are supposed to
have held before the Russian drive
began.
Half their line will be in the mild, well
sheltered Kuban country with easy access
to the sea, while more than two-thirds
of the older and much longer line was in
blizzard-swept steppe or in snow moun-
tain region.
Stalingrad is a test of the offensive
in South Russia. Hitler said in Novem-
ber that to gain Stalingrad and the Volga
line above it —and he claimed to have
the city save a few points whose seizure
was not worth “another Verdun”—was
a main object of his 1942 offensive. If
the Russians can clean up the enemy in
and about Stalingrad and in the Kuban
wheat and oil country they will have won
a great and resounding victory, and the
enemy will have lost all his gains in 1942,
save Rostov, Sevastopol and Kerch and
part of the Black Sea coast.
In an Order of the Day General Mac-
Arthur cited the commanders of the land
and air forces and the heads of his staff
for “extraordinary courage, marked effi-
ciency and precise execution of operation
during the Papuan campaign,” and added
that “the magnificent conduct of the
• troops and elements of this command,
operating under difficulties rarely ever
surpassed in a campaign,” had earned his
“highest praise.” While “all ground
troops” had “performed admirably,
“elements of the 6th and 7th Australian
and the 32nd and 41st U.S. divisions, the
6th Independent Commando Unit,
mountain artillery batteries of the Ist
Australian Corps, squadrons of the
Armored Division and native Papuan
carriers have been specially prominent.”
And for the U.S. sth Air Force and the
R.A.A.F, “no commendation could be
too great.”
•s * * *
In his message to the new Congress
Mr. Roosevelt gave heartening details of
1942 production —49,000 ’planes (5500
last month), 66,000 combat vehicles,
670.000 m.-gs., 21,000 a.-t. guns,
10.250.000. rounds of small arms and
181.000. of artillery ammunition.
* # * *
The Army authorities have received
through the Red Cross two further lists
of Australian prisoners of war taken in
Malaya. The first was of 500 officers ;
it included Colonel F. G. Galleghan,
previously reported missing, who, in com-
mand of the 2nd/30th Batt, won the
D.S.O. and was mentioned in dispatches.
The second list is of 120 rank and file.
British Official Wireless reports that
most of the prisoners taken in Malaya
are still there or in Thailand or Indo-
China, where they are worked hard and
allowed just sufficient rations to main-
tain health. Inspection by the Red Cross
or the “Protecting Powers” is not allowed.
The Home Office announces that 10,000
prisoners of war are in Japan and
5000 each in Korea and Formosa. Half
are believed to be Americans and half
British and Dominion troops. Accord-
ing to the Red Cross conditions in three
camps in Japan are “comparatively satis-
factory.”
* * * •
To Jan. 9 five R.A.F. raids had been
made on the Ruhr in seven nights, and
Essen had its 52nd. “Good results” were
observed ; seven bombers were lost. As
usual, there were bomber and fighter
sweeps over German-occupied Channel
areas. Lutfwaffe FW 190’s made “cloud-
hopping” raids over southern England
and caused a few casualties.
* * * *
The Admiralty announces the defeat of
four attacks on a Russian-bound convoy
by a force believed to consist of a pocket
battleship, a cruiser and several de-
stroyers. The convoy had only a destroyer
escort, which, in foul Arctic weather,
attacked with splendid gallantry until the
enemy had been driven off. The battle
was pushed by the R.N. to 9000 yards,
then to 6000 yards, when a German
destroyer was hit with the first salvo
so hard that she was judged not worth
ramming. Under severe fire from two
large ships, during which the Admiral’s
cabin was holed, the British destroyer
flagship (Capt. Sherbrooke) hit one of the
major German vessels five times when
she tackled the main weight of the Ger-
man squadron. The British destroyer
Achates was sunk and H.M.S. Onslow
damaged. But the convoy got through
whole, and when heavier British forces
arrived the Germans made for port.
* * * *
Berlin continues to nominate the sea
as the decisive battleground. Large new
concentrations of U-boats in the Atlantic
are announced, and the sinking of
1.200.000 tons of ships in six weeks is
claimed. Rome Radio declares that Ger-
many is launching a 750-ton submarine
every day, and Berlin whoops about a
long-range type of submarine mothership
which combines the functions of tanker,
repair shop and depot. But Berlin adds:
“The U-boats have a long, hard way to
go before they reach their goal.” They
have. U.S.A. alone has a 16,000,000-ton
shipbuilding programme this year.
* * * *
In spite of bad weather the British
army of Burma has pushed within 25
miles of Akyab, which, with other towns,
has been a target for the R.A.F.’s heavy
bombers. For the first time the land
forces are meeting Japanese resistance.


Missing Beneficiary.
WILL any person knowing the whereabouts
of MISS N. B. LOVETT, daughter of Charles
Lovett, or any of her relations, kindly com-
municate with the DISTRICT PUBLIC TRUS-
TEE, Hamilton, New Zealand?
Missing Friends.
ANN RYAN, formerly of Singleton, New South
Wales, or her descendants.—Your attention is
directed to the advertisement appearing in this
issue concerning the estate of EVELYN KATE
McMURRAY.
WILLIAM FREDERICK BENNETT, formerly
of Budgerum, in Victoria, Farmer. Son of
WILLIAM and MARGARET MADELINE
BENNETT. Would the abovenamed (who is
entitled to shaie in the estate of his mother,
the abovenamed Margaret Madeline Bennett,
now deceased, if he makes claim thereunder
prior to the Third day of August, 1943), or
anyone knowing his whereabouts, please com-
municate with MESSRS. CLARKE & GAVAN
DUFFY, Solicitors, of 52 Lydiard Street, Bal-
larat, Victoria?
PERRIN, Lucy, sister of William Beckwith
Knight (formerly of Caloola, near Moama,
New South Wales).—Will the abovenamed or
her children or anyone knowing her or their
whereabouts kindly communicate with A. J.
MITCHELL & SON, Solicitors, Echuca, Vic-
toria, regarding the estate of the said William
Beckwith Knight* deceased? ,
Divorce Notice.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES— In Divorce.
TO HAROLD JAMES BEER late of Sydney
New South Wales. —TAKE NOTICE that
RUTH BEER has filed a Petition in Divorce
No. 2008 of 1942 on the ground of desertion
without just cause or excuse for three years and
upwards If you wish to defend you may enter
an appearance at the Divorce Office, Supreme
Court King Street Sydney by the First day ot
March next and obtain a copy of the petition
without charge from FREDERICK McGUREN
Solicitor of 81 Elizabeth Street Sydney.— (l.s,)
C. K. BODY, Registrar in Divorce.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
ZEALAND—WELLINGTON DISTRICT.
(Wellington Registry.)
No. 811 In Divorce.
TO NORMAN FREDERICK MUNDAY the
husband of EDNA MAY MUNDAY of Lower
Hutt in the Dominion of New Zealand.—TAKE
NOTICE that a citation has been issued out of
the Supreme Court of New Zealand at Welling-
ton citing you to appear and answer the peti-
tion of EDNA MAY MUNDAY of Lower Hutt
wherein she prays for a dissolution of her mar-
riage with you on the ground of desertion and
such citation intimates that in default of your
so doing the Court will proceed to hear the
said petition and to pronounce sentence therein
notwithstanding your absence NOW THERE-
FORE TAKE NOTICE that for the purpose
aforesaid you are within forty (40) days after
the date of this publication to attend in person
or by your Solicitor at the Supreme Court
Office at Wellington and there to enter an
appearance without which you will not be
allowed to address the Court at any stage of the
proceedings A copy of the said citation and
petition will be supplied to you on your apply-
ing for the same at the Supreme Court Office
at Wellington. DATED this 16th day of De-
cember, 1942.— (1.5.) P. D. LEAHY, Deputy-
"R ppi^trsr
Friends of the Respondent are particularly
requested to forward to him the foregoing
advertisement. . . ...
ERNST PETERSON HAY is the Solicitor
for the Petitioner, whose address for service is
at the offices of MAZENGARB, HAY AND
MACALISTER, Solicitors, 21 Brandon Street,
Wellington, New Zealand.
SPORTING NOTIONS
(Conducted by "PILOT")
Tattersall’s Club received well-deserved
support at its meeting at Randwick on
Saturday. There was an attendance of
40,000, and a tote turnover of £85,721
proved that money was plentiful. One
winner at 33 to 1 and two at 20 to 1
gave the books a pleasant afternoon
notwithstanding that Tattersall’s Cup was
won by the favorite Tidemark.
Bangster, 2-to-l favorite for the Car-
rington Stakes, showed all the pace ex-
pected, but though he had a useful lead
at the half-mile, and was well clear of
Miss Pentheus, Martheus, Hesione,
Grand Prodige and Soho entering the
straight, he tired a furlong from home.
Then Soho (Wilson) dashed to the front
and won by a length and a half from
Panchio, who beat Hydra a neck. The
last-named, nearly always uncertain at
the post, was badly away, and was
second-last and many lengths from the
leaders after going a furlong. With
ordinary luck at the start it is probable
he would have won. John Halifax, who
found the pace too warm in the early
part, made up ground in the straight,
and Miss Pentheus’s showing was good
enough to make her worth backing when
she next runs in a minor event. J. Scully
probably thought his luck was out when
Knox was injured in the previous race,
and he then failed to secure the services
of Munro or Thompson, but Wilson’s
handling of Soho was all that could be
desired.
In a rattling finish Tidemark (J.
Thompson) defeated Dashing Cavalier by
a head in the Anniversary Handicap.
Jymjon turned for home in front of
Tidemark, Modulation and Dashing
Cavalier. Tidemark quickly settled
Jymjon, and was then tackled by Dash-
ing Cavalier. Inside the final hundred
yards the latter gained a slight lead, but,
finishing gamely, and served by his pull
in weight, Tidemark scored a win in the
last few strides. Dewar finished well to
gain third place, and Enderby was fourth.
Little that is favorable can be said of
any of the remainder, Lambeth, in par-
ticular, making a poor showing. Excuses
were made for him, but they were not
really warranted.
Van Eyck looked the winner of the
Two-year-old Handicap when he dis-
posed of Kurranulla and Gunman enter-
ing the straight. Then War Eagle cut
him down, but was unequal to stalling
off the fast-finishing Falcon Knight
(Willey), who is by The Buzzard from
Talaroa, by Rivoli from Taupo, by Sere-
mond, and was bred by his owner. Kur-
ranulla was a fair fourth, followed by
Royal Peer (a Royal Step colt), but from
the top of the straight nothing outside
the three place-getters had a winning
chance.
After Kingston and Longbow had
done the pace-making in the Denman
Handicap, with Ridere, Belle Doree and
Edigram nearest them at the straight
entrance, Blankit (Wilson) came home
strongly to beat two other outsiders in
Lance and Crystal. Gryphon, who was
a long way back in the early stages, was
fourth; while Ridere, after getting to
the front at the leger, could not see it
out, nor could Belle Doree, but the last-
mentioned two will improve. Blankit is
a three-year-old filly by imported Blank
(son of Foxlaw) from Chelone, by St.
Anton.
Young Valais (Freedman), quietly
ridden behind Cooringwang and Fervent
until entering the straight in the Three-
year-old Handicap, had their measure at
the leger. A little further on he was
headed by Nobleman, and also looked
like being defeated by Hawklet, but he
raised another effort, beating Noble-
man a half-length, with Hawklet a close
third. Mastery and Angel were fourth
and fifth respectively, and both are
Adrian Knox Stakes propositions.
Kiaree (Bartle) and Gaiintlet had the
issue of the Trial Stakes to themselves
from the three furlongs post, and
Gauntlet, who made the early running,
was outstayed by Kiaree. Plimsol was
prominent for a long way, but the trip
was too far for him, and Wellesley did
not flatter his backers at any part, being
hopelessly placed commencing the final
half-mile. Lady Hamilton made a fair
showing, and may pick up a race.
The Alfred Hill Stakes looked tough
for backers, and so it proved. Whisper
Low tried to win all the way. She lasted
to the leger, and then Faerie Queen and
Easter Time (Jeffers) fought it out. The
latter lasted longest, beating the former
a neck. Veiled Threat, who was not
sighted until near the finish, was a
moderate third, with Whisper Low,
Baroda and Mortine heading the re-
mainder. Tel Asur and Chatham’s
Choice were well placed at the turn, but
lost ground in the straight.
* * » •
Following his Flemington win at his
previous start, Duomint, starting at 10
to 1, defeated Crojick and Sunrocks in
the St. Vincent’s Handicap, principal
race at Moonee Valley last Saturday.
Excuses were possible for the second and
third horses, but Duomint, who dashed
to the front on the bend, won decisively.
A four-year-old gelding by Charles Fox
from Doublemint, he is trained by J.
Accola for L. Rasmussen. Duomint was
a weedy customer when leased by Ras-
mussen as a two-year-old, and latter gave
him special treatment in a backyard at
his home at Box Hill. Olive oil played
a big part in building up his constitution,
and Duomint has more than repaid his
owner’s attention.
H. Badger, probable premier jockey
for the fifth successive year, landed a
double on Strazeele and Cornfield. Stra-
zeele gave first-class promise in her early
races, but subsequent failure suggested
she had slipped. A plunge on Saturday,
however, indicated that stable-followers
had other ideas. Backed from sixes
down to ifavoritism at 2 to 1, Strazeele
showed her customary pace and hung on
better than usual to win from Helleon
and Tragedienne. By Enfield from Bel-
gian Star, she is a sister to the Victoria
Derby winner Great Britain. Cornfield
survived a protest after she had beaten
Dennis James a head in the Benefit
Plate. K. Smith, rider of Dennis James,
complained of interference about half a
furlong from home, where his mount
was sandwiched between Emphatic (rails)
and the winner.
Denko, backed to favoritism at 4 to 1,
outpaced his rivals for the first Appeal
Handicap. He won decisively from Feild-
ing and Starsimon, and, in his present
form, should win again shortly. Owned
in Adelaide, Denko adds to the many suc-
cesses gained by trainer F. Godby with
inter-State-owned horses. David Cop-
perfield led practically throughout the
second Appeal Handicap. Aggressor,
heavily-backed favorite, ran wide when
he moved up to challenge the winner at
the turn, but, as David Copperfield won
by three lengths, it is improbable the
result would have been different in any
circumstances.
Overcoming the disability of an out-
side position at the mile barrier, Lon-
doner recorded a narrow win from the
favorite, Lucille, and Agrosan in the
Patients’ Welter. A rails-run in the
straight assisted in his success, whereas
Lucille, disappointed in going for an
opening, had to be taken wide entering
the straight. Londoner won three suc-
cessive races towards the end of 1941,
but broke down so badly after the third
that it was feared he might not race
again. His race on Saturday was his
second after an absence of a year. Sil-
garo, well backed at remunerative odds,
led all the way to defeat Inspector Scott
and Gorgeous Star in the Relief Trial.
Inset, favorite, lost his chance at the
start, taking fright and swerving away as
the starter called “go.”
* * * *
The issue of the Challenge Stakes and
Anniversary Handicap weights early last
week did not give the A.J.C. handicapper
a chance of readjusting his ideas after
the running of the Carrington Stakes and
Tatt.’s Cup. Conditions of the first-
mentioned two races do not provide for
any penalty, and Soho and Tidemark
will again meet the horses they beat on
the same terms. This will tend to small
fields for both races, as, while Panchio,
Bangster and John Halifax may slightly
improve on their Carrington running,
nothing favorable can be said for
the prospects of any others beaten by
Soho. The probable inclusion of Yaralla
and Riverton may make a difference, as,
though the former has not raced for
some time, track work indicates that he
is not far from being at his top. Trimmer
is also engaged.
* * * *
Tidemark and Dashing Cavalier, with
nothing extra for their good form in
Tatt’s Cup, seem certain again to get
home ahead of everything that finished
behind them on Saturday. Dewar may
be a little better, but it is difficult to give
a chance to any of the remainder. Tide-
mark pulled up particularly well, and is
likely to be all the better for his run.
Veiled Threat is an addition who enters
into calculations. His third in the Alfred
Hill Handicap, even though he had 71b.
allowance, was a sufficiently good effort
to suggest that he is on his way back
to the form that enabled him to win
the Sydney Cup with 8.1. He has 8.12,
but he is up to weight. He was fancied
with 9.0 for the last Metropolitan, and
though he ran nowhere he will not meet
nearly so strong a field on the coming
occasion. Amberspear is engaged, but
whether he starts depends upon the
stewards’ decision as to his ownership.
* * * *
In order to permit of yearlings getting
to the annual sales, the ban on railway
transport has been relaxed in Melbourne
and Sydney. Similar indulgence might
fairly be allowed racehorses sent away
for a spell. All racehorses must have a
holiday at times, and, though some may
thrive on that treatment, it is beneficial
for most that they should be sent further
afield than what amounts to little more
than their trainers’ backyards.
* * * *
In reply to a correspondent, a typo-
graphical error in last week’s issue made
Spear Chief’s Australian record for two
miles 2.19|, instead of 3.19|.
* * * *
Opinions differ considerably as to what
price Hall Stand is likely to realise at
auction. It will be substantial notwith-
standing that his Derby and City Tatt.’s
Cup runs did not put him in the light of
a stayer, and he did not shine against
Yaralla and Rimveil in the Craven Plate.
It is possible that he may improve as a
stayer with age, though breeding says
more for him as a sprinter. One thing
which appears certain is that he will
always run a good mile.
* * * *
According to reports from Maoriland
Kindergarten’s owner is making arrange-
ments to send him to Melbourne for
autumn racing. If he gets that far it is
to be hoped he will be able to come on
to Sydney. It looks as if some fresh
blood will be necessary to make Rand-
wick w.f.a. races interesting. At present
Yaralla is really N.S.W.’s only w.f.a.
horse of class, and he is not a stayer.
* * * *
There were 329 entries for this year’s
A.J.C. St. Leger. It is improbable, how-
ever, that anything will come from Mel-
bourne, and, going upon spring form,
there are so few three-year-olds that have
much hope of getting a mile and three-
quarters that a field of half a dozen
seems almost too much to expect. It
is one of the classics that rarely gives a
racing return commensurate with the
money it carries.
* * * *
At a drive for war funds by the
Thoroughbred Club of America at
Keeneland, Lexington, Kty., all sorts
of donations were received. Among these
were 29 free subscriptions to leading
stallions. In addition there were year-
lings and foals, plates worn by famous
racehorses, and old Kentucky hams.
Everything was sold at auction, payment
being in war bonds, and the 29 free ser-
vices realised $284,850 in bonds. Many
of America’s richest racing people were
represented, and their bids were more as
contributions to war funds than the
value of anything they received. For
instance, J. S. Phipps gave $60,000 for
the subscription to Bull Dog, and
his wife paid a similar amount for the
subscription to Sir Gallahad 111. A bull
was sold for $16,000; while a set of
Alsab’s racing plates realised $5O, those
of Whirlaway $25, and Man o’ War’s
and Seabiscuit’s plates were sold for $35
each.
* * * *
Count Fleet came out as America’s best
two-year-old last year. In the Pimlico
Futurity at Pimlico (Baltimore, Mary-
land) on Oct. 31 he carried 8.7 and beat
Occupation (8.10) five lengths in 1.43}
for eight and a half furlongs. The time
equalled that for the best of all ages at
Pimlico, and first money was $30,820
(about £A9375). Bred and raced by Mrs.
J. D. Hertz, Count Fleet is by Reigh
Count, by Sunreigh, a son of Sundridge.
» » * •
American cracks Whirlaway and Alsab
met for the third time last year in the
New York Handicap, 2\ miles, at Bel-
mont Park, the former carrying 9.4 to
the latter’s 8.9. There were 12 starters,
and Whirlaway was sent to the front im-
mediately after barrier-rise. A quarter-
mile from home Alsab was alongside
him, and then wore him down, winning
by a little over a length from Obash (an
outsider), with Whirlaway third. It was
not surprising that Whirlaway failed.
He ran the first quarter in 25, half-mile
in 49, mile in 1.37 j, mile and a half in
2.29 f and, with Alsab alongside him, two
miles in 3.21. The final two furlongs
took 26*, making the time for the full
distance 3.47*, which was one-fifth of
a second behind the American record.
The Australian record is Marauder’s
3.47*.
* * * ♦
In Melbourne clubs differ considerably
in their methods of reducing fields when
there are too many acceptors, and the
V.R.C. may be asked to give a ruling
productive of uniformity. In minor
events one club’s idea of omitting the
first seven or eight topweights from the
ballot is a good one. It at least assures
a sprinkling of quality among the com-
petitors.
Fitzgerald v. Johns at Sydney Stadium
was exciting, though brief as a flapper’s
affection. Fitz. got all over Johns in the
first and second rounds, but Johns kept
on leading with the right. In days when
boxing was really scientific these tactics
would have brought disaster. Here they
brought success. The third round had
scarcely begun when a right on the chin
knocked Fitzgerald flat on his face. He
made a gallant attempt to beat the count.
FOR MOOREFIELD.
(At Canterbury Park.)
(Before acceptances.)
By “ PILOT.”
Three-year-old Handicap: Sir
Neith, 1 ; Cooringwang, 2 ; Flying
Shuttle, 3.
Juvenile Handicap: Constant
Reine, 1 ; Kurranulla, 2; Water
Hazard, 3.
Trial Stakes Handicap: Belle
Doree, 1 ; Ridere, 2 ; Miss Leonard,
3.
Peter Moore Cup; Nightbeam, 1 ;
Ron Rico, 2 ; Evergreen or Veiled
Threat, 3.
Welter Handicap: Mortine, 1 ;
Cadger, 2 ; Haran,' 3.
Moorefield Handicap: Lord
Valentine, 1 ; Jymjon, 2; Easter
Time, 3.


Women's Letters
From Sydney
The 26th of January used to be called
Anniversary Day. Now it is known as
Australia Day. This year the date falls
on a Tuesday, and celebrations will be
impressive. The Australian Natives’
Association is arranging a procession of
Australian youth for the early afternoon.
Here will march boys of the Navy
League and Australian Air League, Girl
Guides, Boy Scouts and members of the
Police Boys’ Clubs. They will gather at the
Cenotaph in Martin-place for a service
of remembrance. Then they will turn
about and visit Captain Phillip as he
stands on his pedestal in the Botanic Gar-
dens. On the Monday night before Aus-
tralia’s birthday the A.N.A. will hold a
reception, and hopes to snare the Prime
Minister, the leader of the Federal Oppo-
sition and Premier McKell.
, Married at St. Saviour’s Cathedral,
Goulburn, and afterwards showered with
congratulations and felicitations at a
reception in the garden of the bride’s
home, Coolati, were Sheila Bell and
Pilot-Officer Hugh John Hoskins,
R.A.A.F., on Saturday afternoon.
Bride’s parents are the P. C. Bells, of
Goulburn ; the ’groom’s are the Cecil H.
Hoskins couple of Invergowrie, Exeter.
Traditional ivory laces and silk were worn
by Sheila, and her attendants were in
sky-after-rain-blue softness. Mrs. Hugh
John Hoskins was a pupil of Frensham,
Mittagong, and has been for some time a
Y.A. at a military hospital.
The A.B.C. announces a Beethoven
Festival to commence next month. In
spite of the brownout there are to be
seven evening concerts, six at the State
Con. and the seventh at the Town Hall.
Bernard Heinze will conduct the series.
Instruments and voices will combine in
a grand final crescendo on March 18.
A professional opera co. will take the
stage of the Conservatorium for a season
of four nights shortly after Easter. The
organisation, which will be called the
Roseburn Grand Opera Co., was dis-
cussed at a meeting last week, and
already some important preliminaries
have been decided on. Sydney de
Vries is director and producer, Florent
Hoogstoel conductor and Eustace Greene
manager. The name of the opera to
be performed has so far not been dis-
closed, but costumes and scenery will be
drawn from J. C. Williamson. If this
season goes well, more operas will be
produced next year, and if public interest
warrants it there is hope that something
after the manner of the Glyndebourne
Music Festival may be launched after
the war.
Good-looking Pamela Parsons, in a
gleam of silver lame, married her Flight-
Lieut. Paul Cahill, R.A.A.F., in St.
Canice’s, Darlinghurst, recently. The
gardenias and stephanotis carried by the
bride were the right flowers for her shim-
mering frock. Sister Patricia and ’groom’s
sister Margaret Cahill were the ’maids.
Their pink faille frocks and matching hats
with their flowing blue velvet ribbons
were a soft color composition. Best
man was ’groom’s brother, Flight-Lieut.
John Cahill, R.A.A.F. Pamela’s brother,
Major Charles Parsons, lately returned
from the Middle East, was groomsman.
Bride’s parents, the Charles Parsons
couple, of Mosman, held an outsize re-
ception at the Wentworth. ’Groom and
best man are the doctor sons of Dr.
Arthur Cahill, of Waverley.
Maie Hoban, of Melbourne, Victorian
representative of the British Drama
League, is holding a summer school in
Sydney. This is the first time Maie has
broken ground in this city, but she has
been holding summer classes for teachers
and advanced students of speechcraft and
drama for the last eight years in Mel-
bourne. There Miss Hoban has her own
little theatre, the Pilgrim, fully equipped
for play readings and productions. Maie’s
headquarters are at the British Drama
League rooms, Victoria-arcade.
Those two accomplished ’broiderers
and craft workers Phyllis Shillito and
Rosalie Wilson are deeply interested in
a movement to teach and market handi-
crafts. The scheme will be worked on
a co-operative basis, and is to be named
the Crafts Co-operative Society. The
society will be registered as a company
and shares will be 10s. each.
This is a step forward. As shown by
the various exhibitions throughout the
year Sydney’s craftworkers are clever
and original. Some have been inspired
in their adaptation of Australia’s flora
and fauna to decorative design. But,
alas! their reward has seldom equalled
their labor. If the committee can bring
buyer and artist together regularly in-
stead of at infrequent intervals, it will
be putting Australian charm into Aus-
tralian homes. R. Walters, Lyra Taylor
and A. Brophy are others behind the
venture.
Ever since this war started Rosemary
Laurence, of Kirribilli, has been doing
her bit. For the last year she has been
a Voluntary Aid at a military hospital up
north. Last week she blossomed into
bouffant white taffetas and tulle and was
one of the prettiest brides St. Philip’s
on Church Hill has blessed.. Her bride-
groom, Flight-Lieut. Richard Thompson,
R.A.A.F., has seen active service in the
north. His parents are the H. W.
Thompsons, of Dundas. Her parents are
the N. C. Laurences, of Kirribilli. Rose-
mary’s sister, Mrs. L. du Vernet, was
matron of honor. ’Groom’s brother,
Squadron-Leader Charles Thompson, was
best man.
Glad tidings for the wife of Dr. lan
Duncan last week. After many months
of anxious waiting she received word that
husband reported missing in Malaya is
well and a prisoner of war. Before going
to the war Dr. Duncan was resident
medical at Balmain District Hospital.
Captain Gwen Lusby, who brings this
bright smile to cheer her patients in one
of the big military hospitals, has become
engaged to Raymond Withford. Ray-
mond is connected with aircraft produc-
tion, and Gwen is attached to the medi-
cal staff of her hospital. She is the eldest
daughter of the J. M. Lusbys, of Rose-
ville, and was, during her university days,
a student at Sancta Sophia. Noel Rubie
photograph.
A.B.C. chairman Cleary is back in the
city with a suntan that would be the
envy of any beach belle. But he got his
the hard way. With a party of cobbers
he has been gambolling about the Vic-
torian Alps. Train took them to Sale,
then by service car they got to Dargo,
and after that, complete with packhorses,
they stepped along the mountain tracks
(12 miles a day and upwards) as blithe
as any yodelling Switzer, Three weeks
of it they had, come sun, come snow.
They met blizzards, and one Sunday
morning the snow fell all through the
hours. They slept in cattlemen’s huts
or in tents, and they had three weeks’
supply of food. They took it in turns to
fry the morning bacon, and they came
back as hard and brown as nuts, but
with frost-nipped ear-lobes. Interesting
point about the uses made of these
richly-grassed alpine slopes is that cattle-
men put their herds out there during
summer. Then when winter is coming
there’s a great mustering, and the cattle
are driven down to the river flats.
Gertrude Concannon, of the larklike
notes, is one of the busiest people in
Sydney at the moment. She is at one and
the same time preparing for her wed-
ding and for a pupils’ concert. The
lucky man is A.C.I John Degnian,
R.A.A.F. Like the Concannons, the
Degnians are a well-known Maryborough
(Q.) family.
Gertrude, now in charge of the Garcia
Studio, had her soprano notes polished
in London by Australian Anne Williams.
Then she went to Brussels for more hard
work with Armand Crabbe, then off to
America for further study. In England
and America she did a great deal of con-
cert and radio work. The whole family
is musicianly. Sister Josephine, in Sydney
for the wedding, is one of Maryborough’s
successful teachers of both violin and
piano.
One of the best things in broadcasting
offered to the outback mother is the
kindergarten session being hatched by
the A.B.C. It will occupy 15 minutes
daily, and will start in about eight weeks.
The Commission feels that the outback
and the convalescent child should no
longer be debarred from the joys of plas-
ticine, of singing games and such happi-
nesses. Of course, the session is for all
Australian childhood free to take advan-
tage of it. In Westralia the scheme has
been very successful. In Perth the
teacher conducting the session has a class
of youngsters in the studio, and the
actual lesson is broadcast.
From Melbourne
Air Force auxiliaries are feeling very
pleased at having secured their long-
hoped-for house as an extension to their
Welfare Bureau work. The house will
be a haven for Air Force men’s wives
who are unable to get help with their
housework, and the care of their children
while they are in hospital or recuperat-
ing after illness or maternity. At the
Welfare House a trained staff will look
after children, with or without their
mothers, and special care will be taken
to see that little Willies and Gerties are
kept happily interested so that mother’s
convalescence is free from worry or
bother. The house is on the corner of
Chapel-street and Alma-road in East St.
Kilda, handy to everything. Donor
G. R. Greaves has made it available
without rent, except for a small amount
covering part of the rates, for the dura-
tion of the war. The Welfare Bureau
hopes that men up north will hear about
it and be comforted.
Furnishings for the new house will aim
at a cheerful brightness. The nursery in
particular will look gay with red Venetian
blinds and cream walls, decorated with
a frieze by one of Melbourne’s well-
known women artists to suit the childish
taste. The committee is not without
hopes that some furnishings will come as
gifts. Already a very spacious re-
frigerator has come as a gift from Mrs.
Drakeford, Mrs. Hesse and Mrs. Bab-
bington, .who raised the necessary funds
at their stall in the Fun Fair at
W.A.A.A.F. House. A special appeal is
being made for cushions —many people
must have bright scraps which would
give a pleasant variety. With children in
mind it is suggested that loose covers
are necessary, to allow of frequent laun-
dering.
If there’s a woman in Melbourne whose
ears are burning it must be Margaret
Sutherland, pictured here by Antoine.
Latest cause of the burning is the praise
from Father Josef Muset, the Spanish
composer for the organ who has come to
stay in Australia while he engages in im-
portant work in connection with church
music. He says that he finds much Aus-
tralian musical composition mere “chat-
terbox,” but that there are some fine com-
posers in the country. Margaret Suther-
land he regards as a leader among them,
her work showing ah intellectual foun-
dation and a fine sense of the develop-
ment of music in the modern mode. In
his Melbourne home Father Muset finds
congenial quiet for his own work, often
giving up six hours a day to composition.
Running cafes and canteens seems to
have a charm for some women, though
to most the thought of it is a nightmare
of hot kitchens and tearful* kitchenmaids
and endless food. Women whose lives
have been lived away from the more try-
ing side of housewifery perhaps are the
ones to whom the thing appeals. Latest
recruit to teashop ranks is actress Dot
Rankin, youthful star of many of J.C.W.’s
musical comedies in the last couple of
years, who has just opened a jolly little
spot in Little Collins-street, and hopes
to follow it later with others. Mrs. W. W.
Whittle has made a name for marvellous
cooking and good service for her little
cafe in Collins-street, which she runs
while husband, Brigadier W. W. Whittle,
is on war service. Both follow a well-
worn tradition, founded when Miss Find-
lay and Miss Byrne, daughters of two
of the town’s most solid families, started
an eatery in grandma’s girlhood.
The Brighton Hostesses’ Air Force
Auxiliary is one of those quiet-working,
miracle-accomplishing bands of workers
whose members can always be relied on
to rally round to help with the needs of
Air Force men and women. Latest effort
is the provision of two mobile canteens
for the north. Fittings include not only
edible provisions (with a thermos plant
which can be used to provide either hot
or chilled food, as weather and appetites
dictate), but a wireless and a piano, so
that an entire concert party can be con-
veyed around the camps. In addition,
there is a gramophone pick-up that should
be a special boon to men who want to
hear a bit of Beethoven or something
outside the concert party repertoire.
Old Clyde girls from Woodend were
among the National Fitness Coun-
cil’s army of playground workers last
week. These are the backbone of the
playday movement, which has the worthy
aim of relieving mothers in inner indus-
trial suburbs from the strain of having
the whole family about their skirts during
the school and “kinder” holidays. Now
at Collingwood, Footscray, Richmond
and other centres, the infantry can play
with balls or run races or even have bouts
with a real live policeman boxer and go
home and proudly show how the muscles
are developing. The tendency to put this
and other recreation under skilled super-
vision seems to be succeeding. Old girls
of schools work under trained personnel,
and the scrimmages incidental to unorg-
anised play are avoided.
Ideal conditions for play exist at the
new settlement at Fishermen’s Bend,
where the Housing Commission has built
homes for people who were being hard
put to find a roof over their heads. One
of these houses is specially built for a
bumper family, 10 to 13. The homes here
are all round a community centre where
baby health officers, the kindergarten and
the creche all find their place, and a big
play field is in the middle of the circle.
The National Fitness people are emphatic
that this is better than taking the children
long distances to beautiful parks. Last
year Scotch College grounds, in the Glen-
ferrie Gorge, were lent and were, of
course, lovely and green. But the Fitness
Council’s idea is that the inner suburbs
should also blossom out into playing
fields, and that the best way to stir muni-
cipal councils is to invite them to con-
sider their present grounds and suggest
improvements.
Reaching the retiring age, Matron-in-
Chief Sinclair Wood stepped down from
her high post to make way for Matron
A. M. Sage, her successor at the head of
the Australian Army Nursing Service.
Gatherings of friends in and out of the
service came and went from her little
office saying “all the best,” and a big do
at Scott’s Hotel witnessed the formal
expression of the regrets of the War
Nurses’ Comforts Fund and its follow-
ing. “5.W.,” as she is sometimes called,
didn’t shed tears or say she. felt like
carrying on for another 20 years. She
spoke only of the pride she felt in her
work, and threw large bouquets to the
service, particularly the nurses who had
served with her in the Middle East. Her
successor has the same gift of being able
to look a problem in the eye as had
Matron Sinclair Wood, who is going
home to S.A. to enjoy a well-earned rest.
Living in the dear dead past fully half
the audience at the first night of “The
Merry Widow” went home lathered in
sentimental yearnings for the days when
Marsovia didn’t sound so extremely im-
probable and ambassadors still had cling-
ing to them the faint aroma of romance.
It’s a tribute to Gladys, Max and the
rest of them that for 3j solid hours a
bumper house at His Majesty’s took time
off from war work and bombing and fly-
ing and training to revel in the idiocies
of a Europe as dead as Julius Cassar.
On all sides the conversation was the
same —“Do you remember....”; and,
while one recalled Lily Elsie as the
Widow, another talked of Higginson.
Apart from the operetta the real thrill
of the first night was welcoming the
stars. This has become a first-night ritual
rivalling the stage show, Gregory Stroud
came first, and hands went into action
for appreciable minutes. Then Herbert
Browne and Peggy Shea called for more
rounds. Gladys and Max held the show
up so long that the orchestra thought of
having a game of draughts to fill in time.
Flowers and speeches, of course, pre-
ceded the Anthem. Nowadays Mel-
bourne orchestras play “The Star-
spangled Banner” at curtain-rise and the
Anthem at the end of the evening.


' You
take
home
V\
3-'
Wa
m.
an ARMY HUT!
You can’t purchase an Army Hut
and Masonite boards which are now
being used to build thousands of
these huts may be difficult to obtain
to-day, but when peace is restored
remember that Masonite—the Wonder
Board of 1000 Uses —will be at your
service for all the purposes for which
Masonite has proved itself invaluable.
TEMPERED PRESDWOOD
PRESDWOOD
TEMPRTILE
QUARTRBOARD DELUXE
0.
Manufactured by MASONITE CORPORATION (AUST.) LTD. from wood fibre.
DISTRIBUTORS
THE COLONIAL SUGAR REFINING CO. LTD.
(Building Materials Division)
SYDNEY . . . MELBOURNE . . . BRISBANE . . . ADELAIDE . . . PERTH
MATS. 42
SMOKE-OH!
“Tennis, according to a medical authority,
is too strenuous an exercise for the average
man of 50.” — Weekly paper.
He’s then too set for the game.
4* 4* 4* 4*
“Don’t be afraid of your dentist.”
—“New Idea.”
Keep a stiff upper lip even if he drills
you.
Wonderful how much female cattiness
can be caused by a gay dog!
4* 4* *r 4*
To some social climbers the cream of
society can prove very sour.
Booked-up.
“Now that their menfolk are in camp, many
women are taking a keen interest in books.”
—Daily Mirror.”
When I was called up 1 hoped my girl
friend would do likewise, but unfortu-
nately she took an interest in one of the
books, a flash fellow who called the odds
in the leger.
They had no introduction, but she
found him a real thriller. She still wrote
me letters saying she loved me, and
hoping I would cover myself with glory ;
but, knowing her type, I read between
the lines.
It was no use hoping she would turn
over a new leaf. Still, I didn’t lsy any
plots. I just consoled myself with the
thought that such affairs are seldom
binding and are not likely to have a
happy ending.
T. W. N.
4* 4* 4* 4*
.Al! (Too) Clear!
“Wealthy Moslems are building raid shelters
for their wives.” — “World’s News.”
Bismillah Baksheesh had spent several
fortunes on a special diamond-studded
air-raid shelter for his extensive harem.
When the alert sounded, his 909 wives
all hurried to the shelter, and after he
had gathered up all the family jewels
Bismillah hurried there, too. He found
the guards unconscious and the shelter
empty. When the guards recovered, they
said sadly:
“The shelter was a great success when
the alert sounded. But when the all-
clear went Ali from the next village came
and conducted a raid by himself.”
That was something B. Baksheesh
wasn’t alert to.
Sandy.
•5* -I< 4*
“Generally, the weather was changeable, vary-
ing from warm to cold and dry to wet.”
—“S M. Herald” meteorological sum-up.
Sometimes it was even revolutionary
by varying from cold to warm and from
wet to dry,
4* 4* 4- 4*
“In spite of all that has been said to the
contrary, women are the realists in this world.”
— Woman’s paper.
Well, they might call a spade a spade,
but some of them call a rake a darling.
“He finally discovered a means of relieving
himself of this debilitating and long-standing
pain.”— Medical article.
Divorce?
•J#
“Chimpanzee got the only Christmas dinner.”
—“Sunday Sun.”
They didn’t make a monkey out of
him, anyway.
Habit.
“He was a plumber when she married him.
He premised to build her a house. She found
he had built a cottage, but another mar-
ried woman was living in it.” — Divorce report.
The plumber, when he plumbs the drain,
Quite probably will find
Some vital implement has bee::
In error left behind.
To please his wife he built a home;
But (now it causes strife )
When finished he forgot, and took
Somebody else’s wife.
H. M.
Lightheaded.
“Bootleg petrol, brewed in baths.”
—“Daily Mirror.”
The bootleg boss is now no more.
He could have been discreeter.
He brewed the petrol in the both.
His mind then going off the path,
He tried to light the heater.
O’HELL.
Sad Case.
“Everybody in Germany is ruined, and even
personal belongings have disappeared.”
— “D.T.”
For conquest they have lusted.
The Fates at them 'now mock.
They’re down at heil and busted
And they’ve nothing left to “Hoch!”
P. P.
The Lesser Evil.
“A woman charged with bigamy in America
said she would rather have her dog than either
of her two husbands.”
Compared with husbands, dogs are neat
And clean about the place;
They leave no marks of erring feet,
Their manners don’t disgrace.
And you, if his affections stray.
Can always give the brute away.
P. M. L.
The Victims.
“Won-yen follow changes in fashion just like a
flock of sheep.”— Essayist.
Though ladies who see a new fashion
Grow sheeplike and follow it then,
In affairs that are flavored with passion
The ones who get fleeced are the men !
NAT.
Reductio ad Absurdum.
“The Germans trapped in Stalingrad are living
in cellars, watermains and sewers on three
ounces of bread and horsemeat a day, while
their ammunition has been reduced from 25 to
30 cartridges a day.”— “Sun.”
General Baldur von Sauerkraut looked
up from the map over which he had been
poring as his G. 5.0.1. Colonel Blitzbascher
entered the dugout. After the usual gesti-
culations of “Heil Hitlers,” “Humph
Himmlers” and “G-r-r Gorings,” the
colonel announced sorrowfully that in-
stead of the usual 42 transport ’planes
bringing supplies to the beleaguered garri-
son only 75 had arrived. As he absorbed
these direful tidings the general’s brows
came together in a terrific frown.
“Dummkopf!” he barked. “Sdubid der
Gwarderniaster-General iss, don’t dey?
Alvays der number off ’blanes he
reduces! ”
“Und vorse it iss mitt der ammuni-
tions,” the colonel went on glumly.
“Before, ve allow them could 25 rounds
vor der tag; now ve able to giff them
are no more than 47!”
The general tore his brain at the dis-
closure of this disaster. “Dot means,”
he said when he could contain his anger
long enough to make some lightning men-
tal calculations, “dot vor efery four
bullets dot could be fired before ve are
able to fire only seven now. Id iss terrible!
Dormer und blitzen! Eferything from
vorse to bad goes. Und vot about der
rations?”
“Vorse than all, Herr General. Der
minimum ve' laid down vor bare daily
subsistence vas two ©unces of catmeat
and t’ree ounces of black bread, with
two ersatz vitamin pills a man. Judge
off mein horror ven I discover dot der
catmeat ration vor each man vorks out
at only five ounces, mit seven ounces of
bread, und der pills reduced half to six
vor each trupper.”
Next day the position, as outlined to
the general by his G. 5.0.1., was indeed
critical. The number of relieving ’planes
had shrunk to 115.'Major Haifa Schurt
had reported that he had had to order
the shooting of Private Schwartzhund for
mutinously complaining because the
bread ration declined from three
ounces to eight. With a hopeless
look in his eye. General von Sauerkraut
muttered that if things kept going like
this, with the ammunition available
deteriorating to 370 p.c. of what they had
been used to getting, there would be no-
thing left but to surrender.
When the number of relieving ’planes
had fallen to 211 daily and the issue of
ammunition had abated from 25 rounds
daily to 139, black despair settled on the
general and his staff.
Then one morning Colonel Blitzbascher
dashed into the general’s dugout, his eyes
shining with pure Nazi joy. In his eager-
ness to give his chief the good news he
almost forget the “heils,” “humphs” and
“g-r-rs.” “G-r-r-.eat news at last, Herr
General,” he burst out after the prelimi-
naries were over. “Ve vill now be able
not only to withstand der Soviet pres-
sure but might even an offensive conduct.
Der number off ’blanes arriving has
increased from der gustomary 42 to
seven! Dot means der catmeat issue vill
leap from free ounces a man to half an
ounce, mit no black bread at all, und der
ammunition issue expanded can be from
25 rounds der tag to six! Iss id nod
great?”
The general solemnly “heiled,” and
was just starting to “humph” when he
thought better of it.
“It iss,” he pronounced, a glad light
shining through his monocle, “der best
news ve haff had since der Luftwaffe
put der R.A.p. bermanentjy out off der
var ven dey smashed it in der Baddle of
Bridain I ”
BO.
Service Department.
Information Sought.
I understand there is an Qxonietrical Society
at Sydney University r What is oxometry, and
what are the objects of the society?
The acting-secretary of the Students’ Repre-
sentative Council writes: “Oxometry is a
recently-developed position in philosophic argu-
ment where an attempt is made to overcome
one’s opponent by forcing a choice between two
seemingly equal alternatives which, however,
exhibit disparity to the keen thinker. The
Sydney University Oxometrical Society was
formed to develop the psycho-dynamic approach
to this science. Average attendance at meetings
is 150, and several diplomas have been awarded.’’
How are oyster-farms and oyster-leases regu-
lated in N.S.W.?
Under the Fisheries and Oyster Farms Act,
1935, the available areas are classified as
special, average and inferior. Leases of special
and average lands may be granted for 15 years,
and renewed for a similar term; inferior lands
may be leased,for 10 years. Rentals are fixed
by the Minister, subject to reference to local
land board.
M" ho is the present light-heavyweight boxing
champion of Australia?
Not precisely determined since Cec Overall’s
death, but Joe Delaney has claimed it since
his thr ; ee-round knockout of Peter Duffy in
Newcastle last month.
Brief Answers.
G.P.; Too tall an order. N.S.W. Cricket
Association, George-street, Sydney, might be
able to dig up some of the information....
J.C.: Strictly speaking, “broke his pastern
joint.” The fetlock is the lock of hair behind
the joint, but the term is generally understood
to refer to the joint itself... .J .B.: Planting-
time is autumn or spring in N.S.W.; in frosty
areas the latter is preferable. Lisbon and
Eureka or Sweet Rind are excellent thin-skinned
lemons... .D.B.: Hard to say without’a test.
Send a bottle of the water, tightly sealed, to
Chemist’s Branch, Department of Agriculture,
Sydney, which will test if free. Bottle must be
clean before filling....Inq.: Standard weight
of gloves, flyweight (8st.) to welterweight (lOst.
71b.), is 6oz.; middles to heavies, 8oz.
Answers to Correspondents
Name and address must appear on the MS. No
liability is undertaken re contributions voluntarily
submitted; and no MS. will be returned unless
stamps accompany. MS. should be addressed to
the Editor.
The Muse aroused:
J.G.: —
Again, brave Commandos, we greet you,
Fighting for us overseas:
Keep the Japs from Australia
And we 37,000 Absentees.'
M.Q.:
Hooray! we’re coming to Wynyard at last
And the daily torture is over and past.
But may Heaven pity each poor jerk
That rides on a bus like ours to work.
L.R.:
Merge, Merge. AVho raises urge?
What Ghost now upon the screen
Who murmurs Sixteen, Seventeen?
Curtin, Curtin, draw the curtain;
Rattle not the bones.
The Assembly is postponed.
W.H.C.: “I fain would ride thy course.”
Thy archaic trappings are like to bring thee a
buster T.F.: Address contributions to the
editor....C.M.W.: None up... .T.L.8.: “Run”
rhymed with “rum” is enough to make any
man run .for rum... .N.D.R.; “Limned these
features and me did create.” Can’t you create
without inversions and “dids”? ... .H.J.F.; All
“sentinels,” whether mountains or dead gum-
trees, are shot bn sight... .E.P.: One of Heff-
ron’s publications should jump at “The
Warden”... .L.G.: “Who would be a hobo,
tramping many miles?” Every blooming bard
in Australia... .D.A.P.: Come again....
H.W.S.: Rough, in two senses H.F.M.:
“Any poetic merit?” Frankly, none... .J.R.R.:
Too slight for its theme S.J.L.: Tripe
J.D.S.: Begins well, but it fades away to
nothing. Let’s see some others N.R.;
Subject is dead now S-W.; Might make
a paragraph.
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC)
CORRESPONDENTS.
R.P.M.: Your forte seems-to be doing pic-
torial ads. for an undertaker... .J.F.: Your wash
is muddily unimpressive, but there is a gleam of
hope among the pen drawings... .N.C.S.: Mary
looks like a Harlem belle, and Jacky is the first
myall we\e seen with underpinnings like a
heavyweight wrestler’s.


THE OTHER FELLOW'S MIND
A Growl from the North
A cynical saying in Queensland goes
something like this: “Most people in
the southern States think Australia’s
northern boundary is the Tweed River;
a few better-informed souls have heard
of Brisbane, but few, very few, know that
the Commonwealth extends north of
Brisbane.”
Today we have bleated to us at every
news session a statement by Mr. Coles,
as chairman of the War Damage
Commission, that so far no Australian
towns or cities, except Sydney and New-
castle, have suffered material damage
from enemy action, or words to that
effect. Where precisely does the erudite
Mr. Coles think Darwin is? And might
not Port Moresby be rightfully classed
as Australian?
Most Australians, except, of course,
Parliamentarians (present and would-be)
and their satellites, would like to see
State Parliaments abolished. But some
of us feel a little uneasy at times when
we think how much consideration might
be given by Canberra-Sydney-Melbourne-
obsessed members to areas removed more
than a couple of hundred miles from these
capitals. A changed (broader) outlook on
the part of our politicians seems neces-
sary—or a change of politicians. —Chen
(N.Q.).
Diggers and Conscription
W. Watson is incorrect when he says
(B. 23 /12/’42) “Most of them [the 1914-
18 Diggers] had no desire to have con-
scripts forced into their ranks.” The
voting of the A.I.F. was in favor cf con-
scription and the figures were: October,
1916, for, 72,399 ; against, 58,894 ; infor-
mal, 2520. December, 1917, for, 103,789 ,
against, 93,910; informal, 1978.
Anyway, this is the first time war has
come to Australia, and it is only a fair
thing that every eligible man should bear
his share of the burden —not only the will-
ing ones. —George Roberts (Q.).
A Service Men’s Party
The New Year’s Day performance of
N.S.W. trade-unionists is a fair indication
of their feelings of sympathy towards the
men offering their lives under such con-
ditions as obtain in N.G. and Timor. It
is a duplication of events during the last
war.
The state of mind of those trade-
unionists indicates a brutal and callous
disregard for all other sections of the
community and provides yet one more
argument, if any such is needed, for a
Political organisation representing re-
turned service men.
The foundation of such a party should
he undertaken immediately by men already
discharged from the services. The cer-
tainty of an absolute disregard of past
military service by the class of men now
dominating the affairs of this country is
inescapable, and, failing a determined
ctfort by themselves, the fate of returned
soldiers from this war will be worse than
mat of many old Diggers of 1914-18.
hot them start the movement and they
find plenty of support from the First
to many men of which reiteration
the non-political plank by the last R.S.
Conference is inexplicable. —2nd Divvy
(K.S.W.).
Absentees
. We have heard a lot about absentee-
! s m in industry, but what about absentee-
ism in the V.D.C.? Despite red-tape, set-
ac ks and discouragement, the present
’.undard of training of the corps is high.
P r ms and equipment are now coming
3 ° r Ward in variety and 90 p.c. of the men
;J e . making full use of the increasing
pities, but the corps can never reach
, h efficiency so long as a proportion of
e men are persistent absentees.
Many men attend only on issue
ar ades, while others attend only occa-
' 0l tally; the latter especially make an
p Vv kward squad which seriously inter-
m'es with training and holds back the
dole unit. At present there is no
eri alty for non-attendance without a
a sonable excuse (except discharge), and
J! e n take advantage of this and attend
.my when they feel inclined. These
a^ r^ers on see m to realise they have
; the same oath as the other fighting
'ar Ces ’ they are not willing to
' r y out their obligations in the V.D.C.
The contributor placed first is paid
4iJd. per line; all others 2£d. per line.
they should be made to do so in the
militia or C.C.C. A short term in either
of these would quickly make them scuttle
back to their essential occupations and
the V.D.C. — Jesmond (Vic.).
Man-power Exemptions
The assertions made by “F. Edup” (B.
23/12/’42) don’t click with actual
Man-power procedure. Personnel apply-
ing for exemption must be furnished with
written credentials from their employers,
otherwise the application is not enter-
tained. Nothing is taken for granted by
the M.P.0., and some of the statements
may have to be witnessed before a J.P.
These contain details of employee’s trade
or calling and the firm’s connection with
any munition work, essential industry or
P.U., which the M.P.O. closely studies
and checks with his records. To him any
form of vocal effusiveness is anathema,
and excuses fall on deaf ears.
His decision for camp or otherwise is
wholly governed by the M.P. bible,
Schedule of Reserved Occupations, which
varies from time to time. Over a long
period about 17 p.c. only were granted
exemptions, which knocks kite-high the
flighty figures and breezy suggestions
mentioned by “F.E.” - With the growing
amount of national work on hand the
figures, including deferments, have con-
siderably increased, especially in certain
classes of U.S.P.
Incidentally, when recruits are called
up they are examined privately. This is
a strict code of M.P. Regs. Apparently
when “F. Edup” attended the call-up he
“Mulga hush, are y'? Thought you Were an Eyehe!"
must have had access to a “listening-in”
post or obtained his loosely-juggled
figures from some irresponsible person.
M.P.Os. are mainly chosen from the
reserve list of officers of World War
No. I, and have to submit evidence of
successful control of men in their private
capacity as well. With their knowledge
of men they are thus eminently suitable
for the job of judging character. The
number of recruits who “tell a tale” to
these hard-bitten Digger psychologists
and get away with it is infinitesimal.
From my experience of some 2\ years
as M.P.0., I find that Australians are
wholeheartedly patriotic. A great
majority of eligible men in reserved oc-
cupations holding lucrative posts display
unusual keenness to sacrifice their jobs
and don khaki, and are visibly dis-
appointed at not entering camp. At
times these coves bristle with indignation
when informed they are debarred by
Man-power Regs., and soothing syrup
offered in the shape of admiration for
their patriotic sentiment, trimmed with
neat phrases, only fans their hostility.
Lads fresh from school never nibble
at excuses. Scores of spirited appren-
tices, indentured before the war, promptly
turn up when reaching military age (often
18 months or so before) and exuberantly
submit a variety of wild schemes to park,
cancel or jettison their indentures, so
that they might outwit their bosses for
the duration and enlist as fully-fledged
warriors.
No, sir, weak-kneed individuals who
offer lame excuses at the call-up to avoid
their military obligations are remarkably
few. The regular army dodger, shirker
or impostor who so cheerfully assigns his
quota of harpooning to the willing
fighter will always exist until roped in
by the Provost Corps, but the percentage
of vocal strategists who face the M.P.O.
is not within a mile of the fanciful figures
quoted by “ F. Ed up”—three in 78 would
be nearer the mark. Dig-’em-out
(N.S.W.).
Propaganda
Undoubtedly much of our propaganda
is weak (B. 23 /12/’42) —though it’s diffi-
cult to understand why Hitler forbids
Germans to listen if it’s all as poor as
“Lord Luvus” infers —but I still maintain
that the cleverest propagandist can do
little towards winning friends for us, no
matter how brilliantly successful he may
be in confounding our enemies.
If a man is attacked at his gate by a
savage dog, which of his neighbors is he
going to feel most grateful to: the one
who calls out words of encouragement
and goodwill, or the one who jumps the
fence and comes to his aid? And he is
eventually going to become a little fed
up even with the neighbor who helped if
he keeps on buttonholing him to remind
him of the rescue.
Of course, we are not quite as crude
with our publicity as that, but ultimately
it’s always what we do that counts, not
what we say. A regiment of the A.M.F.
defending Australia by helping the
Americans to rescue their comrades in
the Philippines would make us more
friends in the U.S.A. than a whole army
of talkers beefing about our magnificent
war effort. — Roy Biv (S.A.).
Maps and Map-reading
Why isn’t the Australian taught to un-
derstand and use maps? Why, for in-
stance, don’t the schools teach children
how to understand large-scale maps of
their own neighborhood, instead of wast-
ing time on entirely incomprehensible
maps of Australia and other continents?
I am moved to this by looking through
Soldiering On. It contains an account
of the fighting in Malaya, obtain-
able nowhere else; but the maps!
Apparently Malaya is just a flat plain
with no natural features. In the same
book the map of New Guinea never even
hints at the existence of the Owen Stanley
Range. The first book. Active Service,
was just as defective —maps with no scale
of miles, no real natural features, no
compass bearings.
By contrast, an admirable map of
Libya is given by the British Ministry
of Information in its booklet The De-
struction of an Army, and there was a
fine map of Gallipoli in the Anzac Book.
I cannot attribute the absence of maps
in Soldiering On and Active Service to a
mistaken notion of economy. The color
prints must have cost a good deal. Per-
haps those responsible didn’t think any-
body in Australia really wanted maps. It’s
a belief shared apparently by The Bul-
letin. Its account of the battle of El
Alamein (almost the only intelligible one
I read) simply cried for an accompanying
map.— Contour (Q.).
The Small Shopkeeper
“Pharmer” (B. 18/11/’42) seems to
think that the corner shopkeeper enjoys
doing the Government’s rationing for it
and receiving abuse from disappointed
customers.
Sometimes these would-be purchasers
come from other suburbs in predatory
search of goods which are scarce or
rumored as likely to be rationed. Gener-
ally they are locals who made a con-
venience of their suburban shopkeeper
in peace-time. If they did deal with him
they expected him to stake them for their
tilts at the Ring and their “goes” at the
lottery ; but mostly they wasted fares and
shoe leather in chasing illusory bargains
in the markets and chain stores and came
to him —as likely as not after hours —
only when they forgot to get something
in town.
Now that transport is curtailed and
many goods are unobtainable in the big
shops or are found only at the end of
a long queue, these people besiege the
harassed small shopkeeper, unable now
to obtain adequate supplies even for the
customers who give him his living in
peace-time.— Ajax (S.A.).
Fixing Wool Prices
The advocates of price-fixing for wool
after this war would do well to remember
that it is one thing to fix a price for a
commodity and another thing to get the
customers to pay that price.
At the outbreak of the war Australian
sheep represented 14.87 p.c., M.L. 4.09 p.c.
and South Africa 5.34 p.c. of the world
total. The sheep population of the three
Dominions put together amounted to only
24.30 p.c. (not even one-quarter of the
world total sheep population). Without
a substantial superiority in numbers, and
therefore in production, how can anyone
expect to be able to control wool prices
after the war?
It may be argued that prices are con-
trolled at present. True, they are, but
what is possible in war-time may not be
so in peace-time when normal trade and
shipping conditions are restored.
Another point worth considering is the
ever-expanding production of artificial
fibres such as rayon, wollstra, lanital,
etc., which gradually increased their com-
petition against natural wool in pre-war
days. Such artificial fibres were mostly
produced by those countries which for
the present time have no longer access to
wool; it can be therefore reasonably
assumed that those countries’ production
of artificial fibres (very disquieting to
the wool-trade as a whole in pre-war days)
will have reached new heights during this
war and will be felt much more after.
Then consider the fate that befell the silk
industry. Artificial silk only came into
being because exorbitant prices, which
only a few people could afford, were asked
for real silk.
Nobody wants the wool industry to
share the fate of the silk industry, and
the only way to avoid it and its conse-
quences is to sell wool after this war in
the same manner as it was sold before
the war—at public auctions where repre-
sentatives of all wool-using countries
competed freely, not only keeping the
wool-clip going into production but also
averaging paying prices over a period of
years.
Avoidance of overstocking and a large
carryover is what everyone connected
with the wool-trade, whether on the grow-
ing, buying or manufacturing side, is
eagerly hoping for.—A. Woolly (Vic.).
Unnecessary Haulage
Tons of new potatoes are seeing the
light of day in our N. S. Wales district,
and while the residents are able to buy
a few spuds in the shops thousands of
bags of them disappear every day into
railway trucks bound usually for Sydney
or Newcastle. This may be just normal
commerce, but some fool finds it neces-
sary to truck eight tons a week back to
our local camp, hardly three miles away
from where the things are grown.
Isn’t it time that sort of stupidity was
scotched? — Wire-buster (N.S.W.).
Back to the Tram
It is to be hoped that Sydney tramway
officials will remember a lesson their
own shortsightedness should have taught
them in the abandonment of the Manly
to Narrabeen tramway service. Even
when the country was at war the
rails and overhead wiring of this tram-
way were torn up, carted away and a
fleet of motor-buses substituted for the
trams.
A reason at the time was “comfort” ;
but that cock won’t fight until we grow
tails or prehensile eyebrows. Sufficient
to say we have today these heavy buses
burning up juice and rubber, every drop
and ounce of which w 6 need for the war
effort. Had the rails and overhead wir-
ing been allowed to remain it would have
been a simple job to reintroduce the
trams. As it is, the lack of man-power
will not permit of rails being relaid ; and
the bus service would have to be aban-
doned if petrol and rubber became un-
procurable.
With all its faults, the tram is a good
Australian. It is built entirely of Austra-
lian materials, runs on Australian-made
steel rails and is driven by electricity
made by Australian coal. — Australian-
made (N.S.W.).


d
etvices
COASTAL RADOSgcE
Sc ISLANDS WIRELESS SERVICE
wmmmamm
IMlMiite |
"Sol? bKSckt receivers
owners*^ lo r^TiuG°sTE T ior is
abtcts
MARCONI i « HOOl
DEVELOPMENT
AMALGAMATED WIRELESS (A'sia) LIMITED
, -.mi
Australia’s National Wireless Organisation
