

.
The Bulletin
“The Bulletin/’ VoL 64.—N0. 3325
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.
Wednesday, November 3, 1943
Price 6d.
Jeppelts
DRYBURGH.
WHERE BURNED THE SACRED TAPER’S LIGHT.
I N his reign between 1124 and 1153 King David I of Scotland did much to
I encourage the establishment in his kingdom of the Christian Church, m
his “Cronykil,” Wyntoun says of David:
He iliiimynyd in his ddyis
His landys wyth kyrkys and wyth Abbayis.
—and among his churches and abbeys is St. Mary s Abbey of Diyburg'a.
which stands under the triple guardian of Sir Walter Scott, m whose
beloved Borderland these Dryburgh ruins stand;
The sacred taper's lights are gone,
Gray moss has clad the altar stone,
The holy image is o’erthrown,
The bell has ceased to toll.
The long-ribbed aisles are burst and shrunk,
The holy shinies to ruin sunk.
Departed is the'pious monk; .
God’s blessing on his soul.
The name "Dryburgh” is said to be derived from the Celtic durach-bruach,
meaning “the mound in the grove of oak trees, and in this setting t c
abbey was founded in 1150 by Hugh dc Mcrville, Lord of Lauderdale and then
Constable of Scotland. The monks w'ho occupied Dryburgh, canons regulai,
were known as “White Friars” on account of the white woollen copes which
covered their black cassocks. In common with most ol the Boidei lands
religious edifices, Dryburgh Abbey suffered in the wars which ravaged the
north in the Middle Ages. Retreating from his unsuccessful invasion o
Scotland in 1322, Edward II pitched camp in the vicinity of the monastery
here. So great was the friars’ relief when the soldiery departed that they
celebrated the occasion by a universal pealing of bells. fhis so emaged
Edward that he called a halt and returned lorthwith to set Diybuigh in J
blaze. Robert the Bruce contributed largely to its restoration, but in 138.
Richard partially destroyed the edifice, and up to the yeai 1545 furthei
extensive devastation took place here and elsewhere throughout the Boidei
country. The abbey eventually passed into the ownership of the eleventh
Earl of Buchan, who erected here the famous colossal statue of Sir Wi ham
Wallace. At its base is the last resting-place of Sir Walter Scott and his
kinsman Earl Haig.


Learn
Journalism
af HOmF
This Book FREE to YOU!
STOTTS CORRESPONDENCE COLLEGE.
100 Russell Street, Melbourne.
CUT HERE AND MAIL
Please send, without obligation, your New Free
Booklet explaining how to Write for Profit, at
advertised in the Sydney “Bulletin."
My Name
My Address
S.B. 143
AGE
The Red Page
Importance.
Well, I was wrong; and the river’s turn
is not to the left but the right.
It is good to have walked that stretch to learn
what the trees held back from sight;
good that so sturdy a freak of thought
grappled for such an end,
till nothing was worthy to be sought
outside the crook of the bend.
Importance is not what it was, a tense
urgency; but, become
a log in the water, a stump, this fence
'that shells off under your thumb,
it loosens fist round the mind, unlocks
the quiet that can show
banks of its own. under wattle and box,
and there too stir and flow—
flooding old aims like cash or bread
or fighting ... Let them all drown:
living needs more this twist of the head
looking upstream then down.
N.S.W
R OBERT D. FITZGERALD.
Murder Mysteries .
One of the healthiest symptoms of a
regenerated earth is the present activity
of the literary gravedigger. He is busy
everywhere analysing, valuing and
summing up the whole output of the last
two or three decades of the arts.
Every expression roughly, covered by
the slogan of modernism has been ex-
haustively examined, from Ezra Pound to
Auden, from Gertrude Stein to James
Joyce, from Van Gogh to Modigliani.
All this activity, so pleasing to the studio
iconoclast in the assurance that his
generation has arrived, is the evidence
that his generation has ended.
A post-mortem is being performed on
its corpse; the literary gravedigger is
burying its remains.
To be sure, in Australia, the modernist-
art exhibition still survives, but the Aus-
tralian studio world is always twenty
years behind the times. Why, even the
art critic of the “S. M. Herald” is a
propagandist for modernism. Do we
want better evidence that its corpse has
been underground this twenty years?
It may appear a sideline in post-
mortemism that the Murder Mystery has
been given an exhaustive survey in
Murder for Pleasure, but there is a sig-
nificance worth investigating in this par-
ticular facet of modernism, because
the Murder Mystery itself secretes a mys-
tery that has nothing to do with its
aesthetic of solution by detection. The
mystery is that a form of popular novel,
hitherto merely a casual product of pub-
lishers’ lists, should have suddenly
erupted into an explosion of activity that
practically pushed all other types of
popular novel off the market.
Up to about 1914 the Roman Policier
remained the sporadic product it had
been since Poe wrote “The Purloined
Letter” and Conan Doyle created Sher-
lock Holmes. Only a few writers
specialised in it: Wilkie Collins in Eng-
land, Anna Kathrine Green in America
and Gaboriau in France.
But from 1920 onwards the spate of
thrillers overflowed the printing presses
of England, France and America in a
flood that swamped all other forms of
popular fiction. Its average of produc-
tion was over 250 a year ; almost one a
day. No theory of easy money can
explain such an abnormal activity; it
touches a peculiar state of mind in both
the writers and readers of murder mys-
teries which goes much deeper than a
mere exchange in entertainment values.
We can admit certain surface excuses
for the dominance of this type of second-
rate fiction. No doubt the smashing of
all traditional values in art which arrived
with the 1914 war helped to displace
serious values in the novel also, and the
serious novel itself assisted the displace-
ment by being so damned serious that it
was an infliction to read it. Overstressed
nerves snatched at any release, and
thrillers were a normal constituent of the
booze and jazz aftermath of war.
All that assisted, but does not explain
a universal obsession over the murder
mystery. Universal, because everybody,
from bishops to shopgirls, from states-
men to taxi-drivers, read them. President
Roosevelt handed the theme of one to
a writer; he hadn’t time to write it him-
self. Even Yeats read them. Parsons,
priests, university dons, psychologists,
even poets, wrote them.
No explanation by surface rationality
can explain a mass obsession of this sort;
an obsession, be it noted, confined wholly
to England, America and France. It
must be accepted as a universal repression
in those nations seeking to relieve itself
in fantasy.
The mechanism of the murder mystery
defines that fantasy in explicit terms. A
killer is hunted down and killed.
But in reality murderers don’t arouse
such revenge fantasies in the mass mind.
T hey are accepted as a normal content of
criminality and as so much entertain-
ment value in the daily newspaper.
Something much more potent than the
isolated act of killing must have inspired
such a universal obsession over the image
of killing in type matter.
We must go to the post-war state of
mind for that motive ; the motive which
is a .burning constituent of the mass mind
today in all countries outside Germany.
For the last four years, millions of people
have been mentally murdering Hitler;
millions that exist on a feverish need
to see the Germans responsible for this
war hunted down and killed.
Such a state of mind is physiological
as well as mental ; a dynamic secreted
in the brain cells.
It is fatuous proposing to exorcise it
by appeals to international law, to
humanitarian principles, to the danger of
setting up a repetition of revenge motives
—even to the rationality that a handful
of political gangsters can pay for the
vast harm they have done. A deeper
rationality, and, in my opinion, a sound
one, demands that an act of revenge be
taken on Hitler and his gang, because
thereby an image of revenge will be
abolished. It is the image, and not the
act, that is the greater reality, because all
reality has being by the image that be-
gets it.
The slogan of the last war was “Hang
the Kaiser.” There were others; “A war
to end war,” “Make the world safe for
Democracy” . . . But most potent of all
was the mass demand that the killers
should be made to pay the law’s price
for killing.
The Kaiser was not hanged. He was
allowed to live out his time in comfort.
The German people were allowed to re-
cover stability and set about preparing
for another war. And instead of a re-
generated world, the nations involved in
the war found themselves involved in
muddle, squabble, revolution and finan-
cial depression.
We know in what terms the general
exasperation tried to relieve its disillu-
sion. The Utopianists set about feverishly
regenerating the world on the usual terms
of the New Order, the Leftists tub-
thumped their deboshed creed of pink
revolution, the Defeatists sought with
gloomy relish the evidence of a defeated
earth, the Soldiers debunked all heroics
in war, and the smart young intellectuals
found the whole thing a sufficiently bad
joke to make a joke even of themselves,
while everywhere industrious journalists
foresaw the whole thing after it had
happened.
All of which, no doubt, relieved pres-
sure, but one final exasperation refused
to be relieved, and that was fury at the
killers who had come forth unprovoked
on a pacific earth and killed and killed
and been killed till the national blood
lust was satiated, and had gone back to
their lair and prepared for another orgy
of sadism; and not one of them had
been singled out and punished as the
symbol of a criminal people.
Frustrated action in life has no other
resource but to fall back on the image
of action in fantasy. Fantasy is the uni-
versal release of all repressions. Every-
body indulges in it and nobody ever con-
fesses to it. It can find a release only by
transferring its motive to some appar-
ently extraneous theme. All creative art
has its being in this transference of act
to image. In this case, a single image of
frustrated killing found its outlet in thou-
sands of fantasy revenges on the killer.
Does this concept of the Murder Mys-
tery phenomenon seem a trifle over-
stressed? There is one piece of evidence
that I think confirms it. While for 20
years England, America and France have
been turning out thrillers by the thou-
sand, Germany has not produced one.
Holland has one thriller writer; the
other non-belligerent nations none. They
had no need to relieve a repression driven
on them by wholesale killing. Nor had
Germany, because killing had relieved it.
Today, the era of the Murder Mystery
is ending. It is safe to prophesy that
there will be very few more of them,
save as the casual content of a publisher’s
list. The bombs now falling on Germany
have exploded a fantasy of killing killers
by its stark reality. Possibly it won’t
matter much if Hitler and his gang are
punished, but something of that sort is
to be desired, if only to abolish an after-
image of unsatisfied revenge in the mass
mind.
For these mass obsessions get dam-
nably in the road of serious values in art
and life. The Murder Mystery may have
helped to relieve one, but it had an evil
effect by corrupting writers and debili-
tating readers. With its other destruc-
tive factor, the propagandist novel, it
has been an attack on the novel proper.
But it is always futile attacking destruc-
tive contents in art which are already
contents of the mass mind. The problem
is to extract from them whatever may be
of value and use it.
This has already been done in poetry,
and iconoclasm is at an end there.
Painters are beginning to extract certain
color values from the modernist attack
on plastic tradition, and experimentalism
in paint is over. Prose is returning to
cadence and lucidity and its function of
analysing human motives and per-
sonality ; but, as yet, it is still fumbling
for a constructive principle in the novel.
Here, that principle as applied to the
Murder Mystery may be of some genuine
value. Mystery itself, as a suspense
motive, will always have its uses.
Most of Dickens’s novels are based on
it, though his power over drama and per-
sonality is so great that he needs no
mechanical ingenuity to stimulate interest
in a reader. Mystery as an occult motive
may be also legitimate material for both
prose and poetry. Shakspeare used it
and good literature has been made of it,
from Poe to Arthur Machen ; but mere
puzzle-plot novels can never be of any
serious value, save as an exercise, in
mechanical ingenuity. It is only to the
system which constructs such a work that
we can turn for a constructive principle.
This is how a Murder Mystery is made:
A theme is struck at the outset and all
past and present action of the novel must
have a rigid relation to it.
All characters must be moved by, and
have an exact relation to, the central
theme.
From the present moment of action
which announces the theme, analysis must
move back into the past to uncover
motives and reveal personalities in rela-
tion to it, but this must be done strictly
under the reader’s eye as present-moment
action.
Here the Murder Mystery is forced to
use effectively the notorious problem of
the “time-shift,” which is one of the
greatest technical difficulties of the novel
proper. It is no longer possible for the
novelist to use the clumsy device of drop-
ping present-moment action and going
back into the past to explain in narrative
why events have arrived at their state of
crisis. The past must be ingeniously
woven into the present by the personal
revelation and actions of the characters,
and the novelist himself must be kept
strictly out of the business.
It was this technical problem that
bothered Conrad more than any other,
and which he experimented with, not too
successfully, in Lord Jim, though he made
a very effective use of it in Chance, and
conquered it perfectly in The Secret
Agent. In The Wrecker, the best novel
Stevenson wrote —though he always re-
ferred to it with tolerant contempt as his
“dime novel”—he failed to conquer the
time-shift difficulty, and had to fall back
on narrative to bring past events into
present action. I do not say that it is by
any special inspiration that the murder-
mystery novelists solved the use of the
time-shift. It was the only system on
which a mechanical suspense-motive
could be sustained, though some of them
used it with remarkable ingenuity, and
therein contributed something of genuine
value to the novel proper.
Finally, the Murder Mystery is based
on resolute action, from the killer who
kills to the detective who hunts him down,
and all other characters must make their
own decisions either to escape implica-
tion in the theme or to assist its solu-
tion.
Acts of will in art have much to do
with resolute action in life, and we may
trace nearly all the muddle, depression
and disillusion of the last two decades
to those novelists and propagandists who
insisted that events moved man, and that
man himself was merely the helpless
puppet of exterior forces. No novel can
be dramatised on such a futile outlook,
and without arriving somewhere at a
dramatic apex no novel can be a con-
structed work of art.
If writers of the novel proper can ex-
tract something of technical value from
these constructive principles, the Murder
Mystery will have done a genuine service,
and we can leave its extinction to the
bombs now exploding over Germany.
NORMAN LINDSAY.
SUNDRY SHOWS.
A beautifully-staged art show is the
“Australia in Pictures” exhibition on the
top floor of David Jones’s main store,
Sydney. The idea is, frankly, to cash in
on the present good market for pictures
and, to make an especial appeal to the
Allies in our midst (liberal patrons of the
arts) by presenting an assortment wider
than any single society can present. Aus-
tralian landscape, flowers and faces are
understandably presented in paintings
bearing most of the well-known signa-
tures —Norman Carter, Howard Ashton,
Will Ashton, John Eldershaw, Hans and
Nora Heysen, Frances Ellis, H. A.
Hanke, E. A. Harvey, Robert Johnston,
James R. Jackson, Lister Lister, J.
D. Moore, Arthur March, Lloyd Rees,
Dattilo Rubbo, Sydney lire Smith,
Joshua Smith, Ronald Steuart, Kenneth
Macqueen, Maude Sherwood and Adrian
Feint among them —and the “modernists,”
headed by such veterans as George Bell
and Arnold Shore, are also allowed to
give their point of view in a score of
instances. Outstanding pictures are
Maorilander James Cook’s “Jamieson
Valley” ; J. R. (Dick) Ashton’s “Sydney
Harbor,” which recalls Streeton’s happiest
manner; James Emery’s “The Slipway,”
a really beautiful piece of draughtsman-
ship ; Howard Ashton’s “Cumulus
Clouds,” and Garrett Kingsley’s portraits,
“Josie” and “Reverie.”
The show by students of Sydney Tech.
School of Architecture has been an eye-
opener not only to the lay public but to
those numerous members of the profes-
sion who were unaware or only dimly
aware of the school’s activities. The six-
years’ course seems to be remarkably
thorough, beginning with geometrical
elements and basic principles of design,
advancing through the Graeco-Roman
orders to consideration of the Gothic, the
Florentine, the Francis Premier and
other classical styles, and, later, more
modern developments. While the aesthetic
side of architecture is (naturally) stressed
in the work exhibited, there is abundant
evidence that the constructional course
is sound and covers all essentials. It will
be a bit of a flop for the graduate who
in his last year was designing and laying
out cities to come down to planning a
one-storey shop and dwelling, but at least
he will have breathed the air of the
heights.
Ivan Menzies and Gilbert and Sullivan are
back at Sydney Royal with a brighter “Gon-
doliers” than any of recent years, notable for
new and resplendent costumes. The Duke has
a new daughter—Elva Blair having stepped into
Viola Wilson’s part; she’s vivacious, charming
and sweet-voiced. John Fullard has gone to
the Navy and Maxwell Oldaker swaps his old
part as Luiz for that of Marco. He’s more
than adequate, though there are obvious diffi-
culties for anyone in trying to match Fullard’s
singing of the “Sparkling Eyes” piece. Ruby
Riddell is a newcomer as Tessa, and Herbert
Browne is Luiz, but Evelyn Gardiner is still
the Duchess and Richard Watson the Grand
Inquisitor; those two were undoubtedly bom
for the roles. On the opening night Watson’s
singing of the tale so free from every doubt
shared the highest honors with Gianetta’s (Peggy
Shea) “Ah me, you men will never understand,”
Gregory Stroud’s (Giuseppe) “Rising early in
the morning” and the Duke’s “I am a courtier
grave and serious.” Menzies is the Duke, of
course: “The Gondoliers” would hardly be
itself without him. The chorus does a fine job;
the orchestra, as always, still lacks both size
and quality.
At the talkies:
Set largely in a tunnel, with the comedy of
an engineer and a lady photographer working
itself out in a pressure chamber, “No Time for
Love” (Sydney Prince Edward) is a better
lightweight than its title might suggest. If
there’s no time for love in a pressure chamber
there’s at least, scope for some good dialogue
and nicely-balanced acting, Fred Mac Murray’s
directness against Claudette Colbert’s subtlety.
“Song of the Islands” (New Empire) is, of
course, grass-skirts and technicolor. It is dis-
tinguishable from other dishes of yams, hams,
etc., by its tolerably plausible plot about the
problems of a cattle-exporter who needs a deep-
water anchorage. Thornes Mitchell is an amus-
ing Irishman. Betty Grable provides spectacle
and sound effects. As the cattle are never
actually seen, comment on their make-up, voice-
production or views on the New Order would
be superfluous.
Melbourne Tiv. has gone all cultured
and prints its current bill, “Les Folies
Bergere,” largely in the French language.
There’s not much else French about it.
If Monsieur Roy Rene were dipped in
French mustard he would come out Mo
just the same as ever. Anybody who has
attended that great event in Paris the
annual ballet, and gone home with an
eyeful of smoke and staggering impres-
sions of Niagaras of girl and spectacle
which even eminent artists think worthy
of their consideration, won’t be knocked
over by Mr. Parnell’s effort, though he
will give the producer a meed of appreci-
ation for doing so well with the limited
resources left him by Mr. Dedman. Mo
appears in “Les Amours de Casanova,”
not as that celebrated lover, but as one
of his conquests.


“TRUTH IN ADVERTISING”
“THE SENIOR STORE”
ANTHONY HORDERNS’
120th Year of Service
;
m
7 : r
irr
\
I
m
e FINE ART GALLERY
FOURTH FLOOR.
I '■■■
r 3»
s
(K
V
UOZ;
AND ITS SERVICE
Over a period of many years, our Fine Art Gallery has
built up for itself a considerable reputation. It has sold
antiques, paintings, etchings, framed pictures, colour
prints, old china, old glass, old silver, Sheffield plate and
many other delightful objets d’art et de vertu.
Its activities include the purchase and sale of moie
MODERN GOODS, if of high class, and in good order
and condition, such as the following: —
CHINA AND GLASSWARE
GRANDFATHER CLOCKS AND
OTHER TIMEPIECES
ELECTROPLATE AND CUTLERY
PICTURES
BRIC-A-BRAC
STANDARD AND TABLE LAMPS
ORIENTAL AND VALUABLE CARPETS,
RUGS AND OTHER ARTICLES
Anthony Horderns’ invite the public to take advantage of
the service given by their Fine Art Gallery. Its traditional
high standard is their guarantee of satisfaction.
iA -vX *j
<c
V? /r^
a
FAMOUS
PHONE: M 2401 (DAY AND NIGHT)
IG
ffi
LOW PRICES
n
u
O'
Ip
TO
ViAi#
BOX 2712 C, C.P.0., SYDNEY


MOUNTAIN TOWN
By MARGARET TRIST.
THE sun was on the mountains. The
mists had curled down into the
valleys. The wind came lightly out
of the gullies. Smelling it, you knew
of the damp black earth and the moss-
grown rocks and again the rocks that
were bare and dry and clean among the
bracken. There were the red clay of de-
scending paths and light caught in
tumbling water; turpentines distraught
with blossom and bloodwoods flinging
their leaves against the sky, and the wind
out of the gullies pushing its softness
against the ironbarks.
In the post office Mrs. Burrows sorted
mail and glanced through the open window.
The little town sprawled before her,
two rows of weatherboard and fibro cot-
tages straggling on each side of the rail-
way line. She could see the railway
station and the stationmistress, neat in
a bright blue overall, waiting for the
eight forty-five down. Her mouth tight-
ened. Some people couldn’t signal a train
through without making a fuss.
Children were going to school. Mrs.
Burrows frowned as the butcher’s bill for
the Delaneys came to her notice. The
same account had been turning up regu-
larly for over twelve months. She liked
handing it across the counter to Mrs.
Delaney or one of the thin Stuck-up girls
who came on their smart ladies’ bikes in
the holidays.
The train went through. Mrs. Burrows
finished sorting. Outside the closed door
of the office she could hear footsetps.
Voices, heavy breathing, an occasional
cough penetrated the thin pine. She
knew every footfall, the sound of every
voice and cough. As the clock started
its nine o’clock chime she went out from
behind the counter. On the last stroke
she drew back the door bolt. The door
was pushed open and the people came
into the small bare office. Mrs. Burrows
handed out letters and served stamps. *
Mrs. Burrows looked through the
window. She saw a woman come out of
a weatherboard cottage further up the
sfl-eet. She started towards the post office,
walking quickly with her head down,
CVERYONE in the office looked at
J —' Mrs. Burrows. She shrugged.
“Nothing yet,” she said. “Mind you, if
there had been, everyone would know by
this. If a letter came at midnight I’d get
out of my bed and take it to her.”
“You would, too. Don’t I know it!”
There was warmth in the tone. Mrs.
Burrows colored and smiled unwillingly.
“She hasn’t heard a thing?”
“Not for five months. Do you think,
Mrs. Burrows”
“No.” Mrs. Burrows was firm. “I’ve
known Jim since he was a baby and I’d
feel it somehow if he was dead. He’s
all right. It takes time to get word
through, that’s all.”
“Jim had a fine constitution,” put in
someone hopefully.
A man laughed shortly.
“It’s a shame. Why did it have to be
Jimmy Neilsen?”
“She’s gone queer. She won’t even
speak in passing.”
“She doesn’t look at you straight.”
“I’m going before she gets here.”
“Oh, don’t all run away,” Mrs. Burrows
begged. “Stay and pass the time of day
with her. It’s everyone dodging her
that’s making her funny.”
“I don’t dodge her. I go out of my
way to be nice to her.”
“Well, perhaps it’s that. It’s the pity
she can’t stand. She’s always had to
take people’s pity.”
Mrs. Burrows watched the woman
coming. It was as if Mrs. Neilsen felt the
eyes of the whole town upon her, peer-
ing at her from doorways, from behind
curtained windows, from the shelter of
garden shrubs. She recoiled from the
instinctive sympathy that was given to
her. It was something Mrs. Burrows
tried to understand but found difficult.
Why could not a lonely woman accept
comfort from people?
“Don’t all go,” Mrs, Burrows begged
again. “Just treat her as if nothing has
happened.”
Mrs. Neilsen came in nervously. She
sidled to the counter and stood staring
at Mrs. Burrows. Mrs. Burrows had a
desire to tell her something, anything
at all. “She’s queer all right,” she
thought. “Now maybe she’s the kind
who shouldn’t stay alone. I’ve lived by
myself for twenty years, and it suits me,
but some are different.”
“No, Mrs. Neilsen,” she said, harshly
almost, “there’s nothing for you. Per-
haps tomorrow”
Mrs. Neilsen turned and stumbled from
the office. Once outside she hurried
homeward, her head downbent, her
shoulders hunched.
“There, now, what can you do?”
“If she doesn’t take a hold on herself,
where’s she going to end?”
“She needs taking out of herself.”
“Yes, but where do you start?”
PEOPLE came in and went out. • Mrs.
Delaney came in, elegant in a striped
frock and matching hat. Mrs. Burrows
held the letter in her hand so that what
it was could plainly be seen.
“Talk about hide!” said someone when
she had gone. “Another new dress and
last year’s meat not paid for. There’s
better people in prison.”
“You weren’t at the Progress meeting
last night, Mrs. Burrows?”
“I wasn’t,” snapped Mrs. Burrows.
“There’s • some who don’t need to run
around to meetings to know what to do.”
“Mrs. Wheeler was there,” volunteered
a woman.
“I don’t doubt it,” sniffed Mrs.
Burrows. “The trains managed to get
through without her, I suppose.”
“She’s real keen on this A.R.P. She’s
going to be a warden, or was it a blood
donor?”
Mrs. Burrows sneered. “Her blood’s
no better than anyone else’s,” she said.
“Of course that doesn’t matter so long
as”
“Her father’s to be head of the demoli-
tion squad.”
“Bless my soul! ” Mrs. Burrows
goggled. “He’s eighty if he’s a day. You
take it now, she must be”
“He has to go in first when the station’s
bombed.”
“The station won’t be bombed! ” A
wave of red mounted to Mrs. Burrows s
forehead. “If any place gets bombed it
will be the post office. What sense would
there be in bombing a railway station! ”
A SHORT fat man came in flourishing
a key. He smiled and gave
an upward shove. “Do you mind?” he
asked, and placed the key on the counter.
“I’ve just let the small place again. They’ll
call here for the key in the morning.”
“Are they strangers to the town, Mr.
Sanders?”
“Yes, they’re coming up from Sydney.
There are three children.”
She took the key and put it on a nail
beside the counter. She thought of the
last tenants and the girl who had died
there in the winter. The house was small
and bare like most of the houses in the
town. It was draughty, and the stove
and fires smoked. It smelt of creosote
and garlic. The drains were open.
“It was fumigated, no doubt,” Mrs.
Burrows said.
“No need.” Mr. Sanders was bland.
“You don’t want to take notice of tales
you hear round this town. Everyone
thinks you die only of one thing. That
girl died of her heart. It played up ter-
rible at the end.”
“You don’t say,” said Mrs. Burrows.
Mr. Sanders went out. The office was
empty. It gave Mrs. Burrows breathing
space. She looked out of the window at
the houses. In the strong sunlight they
were unprotected and boxlike, desolate
and smoke-blackened by their own stoves.
The gullies lay behind them, old and clean
with earth and dampness. On the platform
the stationmistress waited for a train,
“She’s the sort who would give away
something that was no good,” thought
Mrs. Burrows. “I’d stake my blood
against hers any day!”
A woman came jauntily along the
street. She was Mrs. Peters, Mrs. Bur-
rows’s friend. Mrs. Burrows watched
admiringly. “Now I’ll know what’s
what!” she said aloud.
She waited. Outside the sun shone
over the little town.
A GUADALCANAL DIARY
By JOHN BRENNAN.
THE diarist is the Right Reverend
Jean Marie Aubin, Titular Bishop of
Antiphellus and Vicar Apostolic to
the Roman Catholic Mission in the
Southern Solomons. He is 61 now, a
Frenchman, tall and spare and grey-
bearded, an energetic refutation of the
fallacy that “The Solomons is no place for
a white man” ; it’s a little over thirty-five
years since he first came to the islands.
The diary—its entries completed at odd
times from the early days of July, 1942,
to the first part of October—tells a
closely personal story of the Japanese
occupation of Guadalcanal; the story of
the bishop and his little band of mission-
aries who throughout that time were at the
headquarters of the mission at Visale on
the extreme north-west tip of the island.
At Visale was the residence of the
Vicar Apostolic, the cathedral and the
mission printing press. When the
Japanese came there were, besides the
bishop, three priests, two lay brothers
and five European sisters.
The diary begins on July 2, two
months after the establishment of the
Japanese at Tulagi:
“This afternoon a large schooner
anchored in the bay. Four armed men
came ashore, inspected the station and
took one pig and a few fowls.
“July 3: A high-ranking officer, T.
Ishimoto, came by road from the
Japanese post at Tsapuru, near Cape
Esperance. He presented a question-
naire requiring particulars of the mis-
sionaries of the entire vicariate. He
asked also ‘How many whites were there
in the Solomons before the war?’ to which
we replied that we relied on the Blue
Book ; and, “Is there a District Officer
on this island?’ We were able truthfully
to answer that we did not know.
“I made a decision then to have no
official relations with the Japanese except
in the presence of three priests—Brug-
mans (Dutch), McMahon (Canadian)
and Scanlon (New Zealander) —for being
French and knowing the unhappy state
of France I feared being accused of co-
operating with the enemy by those who
would find it strange that all the mis-
sionaries remained at their posts by order
of the bishop.
“At the Novitiate of the Native
Sisters Ishimoto wrote on the blackboard
in English ‘Out of sight, out of mind ;
you must obey the Japanese authorities.’
“He ordered Father Brugmans to fol-
low him to Tsapuru, and by boat to
Lunga. I protested. T had orders to take
ou all.’ he said ; ‘l’m taking only one.’
“A schooner anchored in the bay and
Ishimoto demanded the three radios and
the twelve boxes of trade articles which
had been left in our care by a Chinese
before his evacuation; also the chairs
from the dining-room and verandah.
While they were loading these articles
the sailors looted candles, eggs and linen
from the sisters’ quarters. I protested
to Ishimoto, who said they would be
punished on their return to Lunga.
“July 5 : Ishimoto returned with Father
Brugmans. He demanded the mission
boat Santa Anna, all the fuel, the
refrigerator, binoculars, farming imple-
ments apd shotguns.
“On his previous visit I had written to
the Chief Commander at Lunga asking
freedom of action. Ishimoto had only an
oral reply. Liberty to visit villages was
refused, I insisted on being allowed to
answer sick calls. Again the answer was
‘No.’ We were to be prisoners at Visale.
“Ishimoto demanded our co-operation
in making orders known to the natives.
We replied that even under British rule
we were not agents of the Administration.
Our role was that of ministers of religion.
“He composed what he called Notice
No. 1, Order No. 1, and posted it on the
door of the presbytery:
Notice No. 1.
All the inhabitants of this island
must be ordered by Japanese Gov-
ernment to co-operate for Japan.
Any inhabitant against it should
be severily punished by Japanese
Martial Law.
Order No, 1. '
Men only, over 14 years and less
than 50 years, have to work for
Japanese troops.
After a month’s labor they will be
given the identity as civilians on this
island.
During work they will be supplied
with houses, meals, tobacco, etc.
P. Chief Commander,
T. Ishimoto.
“He said he would return soon to
remain at Visale to establish a recruiting
bureau. I protested that it would expose
the station to the bombardment of the
Allies. He said he-would refer the matter
to the Chief Commander. I heard no
more about it.
“During their visits the soldiers and
sailors had stolen a number of things.
Ishimoto promised us some sort of docu-
ment in Japanese to protect us against
looters, but he did not give it.
“July 12; Ishimoto’s boat came into
the bay and he took aboard sixty-six men
of the neighboring villages.
“Again asked for a document of safe
conduct to visit those workers who would
be in the danger zone at Lunga. Ishi-
moto seemed agreeable and wrote two
copies in Japanese, one to take back to
Lunga and one for us. On our copy he
commenced to write out the English
translation. It began ‘Father is co-
operating with the Japanese.’ I drew
Father Scanlon’s attention to it. We told
Ishimoto that a safe conduct in such
terms was not acceptable. After a long
discussion on the meaning of co-opera-
tion he tore up the papers.
“August 3; For the last two days the
men working at Lunga have been stealing
back in small numbers through the bush.
.All are in extremely low spirits and say
‘lt is very hard there. We are very fright-
ened. .. .It is impossible to sleep and eat,
but God looked after us; none has been
injured in the American bombardment.’
“Some said that some of the Japanese
workers told them to run away, saying
that they would run away also if they could.
“August 7 (the day of. the American
attack): About 5.30 squadrons of Ameri-
can ’planes began to fly over Visale in the
direction of Tulagi and Lunga. The
people stood outside the church looking
up at them. It was really a fine show.
The Japanese post at Tsapuru shot at
some of the ’planes. Immediately some
of them turned back and flew low over
the station behind the cathedral, strafing.
All the people ran away into the bush —
children, fathers, sisters and natives. It
was a miracle that nobody vtas injured.
“A bomb dropped near the boys’ dor-
mitory, a building 100 feet long. It was
completely destroyed, and all the build-
ings suffered very much from the blast.
“August 14: Everybody from the
station has remained in the bush not far
from Visale, living in small huts. Many
times when going to the village for food-
stuffs we have been obliged to stop and
hide so as not to be seen by patrol ’planes
—fearing to be taken for Japs by the
Americans and for Americans by the Japs.
“After the capture of Lunga by the
U.S. Marine Corps the Japanese, driven
back, were spreading into the bush and
moving back along the coast towards
Visale. We packed up a great part of the
mission archives to be hidden in the bush.
“August 31: I have been very ill, and
decided to return to Visale. The next
day the Japs came to loot my residence.
I was in bed, but I was removed just
before they arrived. They went to the
native gardens, where we had hidden a
dozen bags of rice. One boy, Petero Sego,
tried to deceive them. They shot at him,
and next morning his body was found in
the grass.
“When we heard the news we decided
not to remain any longer in the district
but to go to Tangarare, about 30 miles
away, where we hoped to be free of con-
tact with the Japs. We started before
midnight, taking only what we could
carry—fathers, brothers, sisters, native
sisters and some of the boys and school-
girls. 1 was still very ill, and needed to
be carried on a litter.
“September 12: We have been nearly
a month at Tangarare, but as the Japs
are getting nearer every day we have been
obliged to send the sisters away, some
further down the coast, some to a bush
village,
“We have heard from the natives that
the Marist Brothers and the two priests of
Marau and the two fathers and the sisters
of Ruavata have been taken prisoner.
“September 30': We have only now
had the news of the terrible tragedy of
Tasimboko the murder of Fr. H.
Enghering, Fr. A. Duhamel, Sister M.
Sylvia and Sister M. Odilia and the flight
of Sister M. Edmee to Gold Ridge.
“October 4: Yesterday we had a mes-
sage from Lunga saying that we will be
rescued. Today we left for Lunga, all
except one father. Three priests, two
brothers and seven sisters were put aboard
a transport going south. By special per-
mission of General Vandergrift, the
Marine commander in charge of opera-
tions on Guadalcanal, I am to remain in
the Islands, going across to Malaita with
ten native sisters.
“Today we heard that everything we
had hidden in the bush had fallen into
the hands of the Japanese. After our
departure they had occupied the station.
All the buildings had been shelled from
the sea and bombed from the air. Of
the station at Visale, headquarters of our
mission, nothing was left but ruins.”
Such was the story of the mission at
Visale. The work of almost half a cen-
tury had been destroyed in a few months ;
“nothing was left but ruins.” But the
bishop himself, and on some of the other
islands a few of his missionaries, re-
mained. Already they have begun on the
long and arduous task of reconstruction.


The Bulletin
Vol. 64 —No. 3325.
Wednesday, November 3, 1943.
MESSAGE FROM TOKYO.
“The present war situation is very complicated.”— Tojo to the Diet.
“Honorable General Tojo presents honorable compliments to honorable War-Lord Hitler—he say war situation very complicated.”
"He’s telling me!”


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper
“Australia for the White Man”
Directors:
H. K. Prior J. E. Webb
p_ H, Prior David Adams
1
HEAD OFFICE; 252 George Street, Sydney;
Box 2521 BB; ‘’Phone 87971.
Victoria: Newspaper House, 247-249 Collins
Street, Melbourne.
* Queensland; 239 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
Westralia; 33 Barrack Street, Perth.
New Zealand : Nathan’s Buildings ( opp.
G.P.0.), Wellington.
London: 1 Hare Place, 47 Fleet Street,
London, E.C.4.
THE RULE OF LAWLESSNESS.
A report abridged from the New York
“Times” of August 31:
Twenty-seven. United Mine Workers,
arraigned before Federal Judge Scho-
maker, were charged at Pittsburgh with
having instigated strikes in Government-
operated coalmines of Western Pennsyl-
vania during June and July. Pleading no
defence,” they received six-month sus-
pended prison sentences and were put on
probation for three years. . .
Judge Schomaker, in determining sen-
tence, said “The United States is engaged
in a global war which calls into the ser-
vice of this country not only the soldiers
but the whole citizenry. The Government
has seen fit to pass a law [the Smith-Con-
nally War Labor Disputes Act, passed by
Congress over the President’s veto] to aid
in carrying on this monstrous war. It
behoves every citizen to obey the law.
The Judge warned the miners “to refrain
from any act impeding or retarding the
production of coal during the war.”
The report reached Sydney while Mr.
Curtin was preparing for another of his
many conferences with Mr. Wells, the
Communist president of the Miners
Federation, and other members of the
union hierarchy. After the conference,
at which Ministers Beasley, Ward and
Holloway were present, and which was
held on October 26, the exultant Com-
munist said it was “the best so far,”
meaning that it was “the best for him
and his crowd ; and as an expression ot
triumphant monocracy this was true.
The previous conference took place on
October 5, Dr. Evatt being present, along
with the other Ministers named. After
the Prime Minister had been “kept wait-*
ing for nearly 20 minutes before the
morning session began,” and had had to
abandon his intention of leaving Sydney
for Canberra at 4 p.m. by car, the pro-
ceedings being prolonged till 5.30, mutual
concessions were announced. In con-
sideration of “the great strain imposed
on the workers by fatigue,” the Govern-
ment waived its published objection to
the closing of the mines for nine days at
Christmas, and Mr. Wells and his pals
“agreed to recommend to the men that
they accept daylight saving, against
which their choice spirits had struck. At
this conference, as at all the rest, the
familiar promises were made and the
familiar stoppages succeeded. When he
realised that he had been sold once more,
Mr. Curtin became angry, though his
anger with workstoppers and their leaders
never lasts long.
Going to the House on October 14 the
Prime Minister announced that a crisis
had been reached. Chiefly because of
strikes and absenteeism, N.S.W. coal pro-
duction, 12,280,700 tons in 1942, had
fallen to 8,271,300 tons for the year to
September 18, and consumption for six
months was reckoned at 7,500,000 tons.
“To build up stocks at a necessary rate”
a “target saving” of 40,000 tons a week
would have to be imposed. That
would mean unemployment or part-
time work for many people engaged in
industry, and for train travellers and
householders a variety of unpleasant
effects, ranging from annoyances to hard-
ships ; but on these Mr. Curtin did not
dwell. He admitted, however, that the fall
in production was mainly attributable
to strikes and absenteeism, and, giving
examples of hooligan defiance of his
National Security regulations, he threat-
ened drastic, though unspecified, measures
against hooligans; “youths of military
age, taxi-drivers, s.p. bookmakers, bil-
liard-room proprietors, dog-trainers and
the like, who have engaged as miners in
order to obtain protection.”
Presently his Attorney-General was
heard from. With astonishment touched
with indignation Dr. Evatt revealed that
fines imposed on workstoppers had not
been enforced during his absence abroad,
and it might be inferred from his state-
ment and from the “explanation” of the
N.S.W. Minister of Justice that industrial
penalties incurred by N.S.W. unions and
individual unionists never have been en-
forced, at least since 1934. Dr. Evatt
announced that he would see that those
imposed since April were collected by
the employers, to which Mr. Wells re-
plied, with characteristic Communist
impudence, that this would mean more
strikes.
The Communist and his associates
had in the meantime been delivered of
two programmes or ultimatums, one “in-
dustrial” and the other political, contain-
ing altogether 25 points, and sprinkled
with the words “force” and “must.” To
all of these Mr. Curtin chose to reply,
here and there with some asperity, though
it was fairly obvious that he was return-
ing to his appeasement policy. To a
cheeky demand for the “release of mine
workers from the army” he replied that
“there are relatively few miners in the
army.” “Provide enough skips for all
miners to get the ‘darg’” brought the
answer that there were skips enough if
the men condescended to wait until three
o’clock to get them ; but “they do simply
as they like: as a rule any vigorous
attempt to enforce discipline leads to a
stoppage.” “Force introduction of horse-
wheeling in Queensland mines” elicited the
information from “Curtin” (always so
referred to in the ultimatums) that the
Coal Commission had “persuaded the
Queensland Government to purchase
horses, harness and gear for the State
coalmine at Collinsville, the largest mine
in Queensland, but in May the men re-
jected the proposal.” To other demands
the Government surrendered, according
to custom, though the surrender was not
announced till after last week’s conference.
Demand and surrender, in the parties’
own jargon, are appended in parallel
columns.
Demand.
Make pit commit-
tees compulsory.
Alter methods of
income-tax collection.
Leave prosecutions
and union discipline
alone.
Special efforts to be
made to provide better
ventilation and to
minimise dust.
Alter setup of Cen-
tral Reference Foard.
Establish coal tribunal
or wages board of
practical men not
legal. Remove Brock-
man [Commonwealth
Arbitration Judge
Drake-Brockman, who
has been Chairman of
the Central Reference
Board]. Improve local
Reference Boards by
appointing local in-
spectors to work with
local chairman on the
fields.
•
Curtin to address
the men at Caesnock,
Kurd, Belmont, Wol-
longong and Lithgow.
Surrender.
Conference affirmed
the desirability of pit-
top committees being
formed wherever
needed.
It was agreed that
the Taxation Depart-
ment shall examine
the method of collec-
tion of income tax on
miners’ earnings.
At the urgent re-
quest of the Federa-
tion representatives,
the Government will
consider the question
of prosecutions in re-
spect of stoppages.
In regard to ventila-
tion in mines and the
effect of dust, the
Commonwealth De-
partment of Health
will have a survey
made and action taken.
[This has been part
of the job of a very
exp ensive N.S.W.
Mines Department,
which has an ex-
miner Minister (Labor),
for half a century.]
The Government
agrees that, in re-
spect of the Federa-
tion, the authority of
the local Reference
Boards shall be com-
plete, and that the
authority of the Cen-
tral Reference Board
shall cease, except
that in respect of
matters affecting the
Federation which in-
volve more than one
district these shall be
considered by a board
composed of a Gov-
ernment nominee as
chairman and of a
representative of the
Federation and of the
management.
The Prime Minister
has promised to ad-
dress meetings on the
coalfields as soon as
he can leave Canberra
(Mr. Wells).
Plans and specifications for the refer-
ence boards were drawn up by the
Miners’ Federation, and the regulations
were altered and amended as its caprices
dictated. One of its requirements was
that each local chairman should be a
member of the union, and others were
that (1) there should and (2) there
shouldn’t be a right of appeal from the
local to the central board. On one point
only the Government acted independently
of the union bosses and that was when
it took Justice Drake-Brockman from his
Commonwealth Arbitration Court work
and named him chairman of the Central
Board, though to this the union bosses
did not then object. Now, in abject sur-
render to them, the Judge has been
handed his walking ticket, and the Prime
Minister added insult to injury by alleg-
ing that he, as chairman, had issued an
award which “neither party wanted and
which has caused a great deal of trouble.”
Since there seems to be no limit to the
audacity of union bosses or the abject-
ness of Labor politicians, there may
be an attempt to remove the Judge from
the Arbitration Bench ; but there will be
some difficulty about that.
“The Government,” Mr. Curtin pleads,
“has tried almost everything.” It has cer-
tainly tried coercion of mine manage-
ments on receiving orders from the union
which has reduced lawless work-
stopping to an art. Managers and
other staff men have been prosecuted
for alleged breaches, and on these
occasions the Government briefed a
K.C. and a junior, thus adding to
the penalties when penalties were im-
posed. These fines and costs have always
been exacted. Where workstoppers were
charged, only a junior counsel was em-
ployed, and, by virtue of an instruction
issued at Canberra, the fines and costs
have not been collected.
“Unless more coal is produced, it will
be impossible to maintain the tempo of
the war.” The Prime Minister, it seems
from his own statement to the news-
papers, said this to Comrade Wells and
the other union bosses, with a request
that it should be conveyed to “the rank
and file.” No such request has been con-
veyed to the men who are maintaining
the tempo of the war in New Guinea,
where so many have been struck down
by death, wounds and disease, none being
necessary. Nor has it been necessary to
remind the fighting men who, as Lieut.-
General Herring has pointed out, saved
the Australian people, coalminers among
them, from “the murdering, ravaging and
raping that China and other countries in
Japanese hands have known,” that in the
Army, the Navy and the Air Force
desertion in the face of the enemy is the
foulest of crimes.
There were other strange passages in
this statement to the newspapers, in some
respects * the most extraordinary ever
issued by a war-time Prime Minister.
From one it may be inferred that Com-
rade Wells or some other agitator present
objected that the English-speaking coun-
tries were not fighting for Communism
and had no Communist Government.
Anyway, these were Mf. Curtin’s words,
as self-reported, after thanking the gentle-
men for “their endeavors of the last two
years to keep the coal industry going”:
I urge you to have faith in the cause
for which this is required. It is perfectly
true that the Government of Britain or of
the United States cannot be described as a
Labor Government. If it pleases you, you
may have a better description to apply to
the Government of Russia. Nevertheless,
the worst of those Governments is infi-
nitely superior to the Government of
France or Italy or of any country sub-
jected to the Nazis or the Fascists, and
far better than the Government of Ger-
many.
When Mr. Roosevelt, Mr. Churchill
and Mr. Mackenzie King meet again,
with Field-Marshal Smuts as a member
of the company, there is sure to be a
merry discussion as to which is “the
worst” of their Governments.
In another passage there is, as it were,
a self-portrait of John Curtin as a sort
of weary but undaunted Titan waging an
ideological war:
From day to day, from week to week,
these matters are thrust before us. If I did
not believe that this is a war for a
philosophy of existence, for a way of
human living, then I should sometimes be
inclined to believe that the price we are
called upon to pay, and that others most
certainly have had to pay in much greater
measure, is hardly worth while.
What price have the Communist Wells
and the coalfields workstoppers, them-
selves products of Communist agitation
and the invocation of the larrikin spirit,
been called upon to pay? And since the
Government refuses to compel them to
do their share in maintaining “the tempo
of the war,” though it expects better
men to fight and die, what apter descrip-
tion could there be of Mr. Curtin’s coal
“policy” than the one he iniquitously
applied to the Menzies-Fadden home-
defence plan: “defeatist in outlook and
preparation”?
Winning in 1945.
That is the year named by President
Roosevelt’s right-hand man and personal
adviser Harry L. Hopkins—provided all
goes well. He made it before the Fifth
Army, mainly American, had its close
call at Salerno. Reservations mentioned
included both China and Russia remain-
ing in the war, and, for other members
of the Allied Nations, the dropping of
home-front overconfidence, leading to
relaxation in the war effort.
Confident enough of ultimate victory,
“even if we lose Russia,” Mr. Hopkins
expects that, provided no such misfortune
occurs, there will still be two years of
hard fighting, at least. With Russia out
from any cause —which he does not think
likely—he advances his prophecy by an-
other three years ; that is, five years still
of hard fighting, though with victory ulti-
mately sure. These views are based on
what is known of the present strength of
Germany and Japan, after all allowances
have been made for German losses in
campaigns and from bombing, and for
Jap shipping and ’plane losses.
According to Mr. Hopkins the
Germans are still “militarily solvent.’
They are reported to have recently mobi-
lised 60 new divisions, a figure that may
perhaps best be grasped by using the
three A.I.F. divisions as a yardstick.
The Germans are also officially
credited in Washington with still having
enough food and clothes to carry on for
an indefinite time, and there has been no
appreciable decline in their output of
munitions. German guns, tanks, shells,
’planes and the like captured in recent
battles betray no weakness in production.
Casualties—put at 3,000,000 men—repre-
sent about the same percentage of pre-
war population as in 1918, when Germany
caved in. This comparison has been
pounced on by the wishful-thinking
fraternity; but there are completely
overriding differences that don’t appear
to enter into their reckoning.
One difference is that in 1918 the Ger-
man Army, from its Black August 8 to the
end, was taking a hiding. A process of
its annihilation had started and was gain-
ing momentum with every day. The
“stab in the back” by the German home
front was a result of this, not its cause.
In the present situation all that so far is
true is that the Germans have lost the
initiative for attack, and are on the defen-
sive. They are being beaten, but only in
terrible fighting, with every grim prospect
of much more of this ahead.
Another difference of equal, II not
greater, import is brought into the picture
by Germany’s use of foreign workers in
factories and fields. The number of
these is put as high as 13,000,000 actu-
ally in Germany, to say nothing of the
many millions more working in the occu-
pied countries. This, which wipes out
1918 as a year for comparison, enables
Germany to keep some 10,000,000 men
in army, navy and air force who have
yet to be defeated.
Germany still controls some 300,000,000
people in Europe, and the breadwinners
among these must work for Germany in
order that they and their families may
live. The Japs control approximately the
same number. And, according to Clark
Lee, a U.S. Associated Press correspon-
dent who has had extensive Far East
experience, not only are vast numbers of
assorted Asiatics working for Japan, but
many favor a Jap victory.
The best available intelligence indicates
that Japan, like Germany, is so far
neither suffering severe hardship at home
nor decisive losses, and, if anything, is
increasing and improving war production.
This intelligence, accepted by American
leaders, political and military, is offset
somewhat by official communiques and
correspondents’ reports. Last month
one correspondent wrote from Guadal-
canal that U.S. army, navy and marine
pilots there “hold complete superiority
over the Japs.” He quoted remarkable
figures, claiming that in September they
had shot down 161 Jap ’planes at an
approximate 25 per cent, cost, ack-ack
bringing the total to 168, and that since
the Guadalcanal landing the grand total
of Jap ’planes thus destroyed (not count-
ing those destroyed on the ground) was
1780, for the same 25 per cent. loss.
Figures every bit as crushing from the
Jap point of view have repeatedly
appeared in New Guinea bulletins. On
the other hand, the Japs are believed to
have increased ’plane production to some
1000 monthly. In view of this produc-
tion increase and others, Mr. Hopkins
believes that if Japan “doesn’t lose all
her outlying island conquests .in a year
or so, it is probable that her reserve
supplies of munitions will be so large and
her new industrial projects so produc-
tive that she can last a long time fighting
a defensive war.”
The conviction now widely shared by
many such observers in a position to
know is that both Germany and Japan
are determined to make as hard a fight
of it as possible for the rest of the war
in the hope that a military stalemate may
develop, and perhaps divisions among
the Allied Nations, leaving open the
prospect to a negotiated peace. As to
this, the quoted U.S. Associated Press
correspondent has reported that the Jap
commander in the Philippines campaign,
Lieut.-Gen. Homma, told him; “We are
prepared to lose 10,000,000 men in our
war with America. How many are you
prepared to lose?”
Against all this stands the unquestion-
able fact that both Germans and Japs
are at long last definitely on the defen-
sive ; and earlier in the war they them-
selves demonstrated that countries stand-
ing on the defensive are doomed.
Probably the most noteworthy turn in
the Pacific fighting has been the less diffi-
cult winning of victories. Both A.I.F.
and Americans —on land as well as in
the air—would appear to have the Jap’s
number. A war correspondent lately in
the Solomons has reported that the
Americans are finding the Japs nothing
more than ordinary fighters, and this, he
said, is “the studied conclusion of field
commanders.” Cases in which the Jap
at bay had preferred obliteration rather
than surrender are “highly overrated and
rare.” He had “seen too many Japanese
beg for mercy” and “too many prisoners
delighted to be out of the war.”
There are other heartening signs,
especially since offensives against Japan
were given out as the main business of
the Roosevelt - Churchill meeting at
Quebec. U.S. Secretary of the Navy
Knox has stated that America is adding
to its Pacific force at the rate of a war-
ship a day. Large “task forces” have
been officially reported from America as
“ready to strike Japan” ; and members
of both the British press delegation and
the British military mission to Australia


have given encouraging assurances of
‘’surprises” that Britain has already well
advanced for the enemy in the Pacific.
Everywhere, from Burma right round
to Alaska, there are indications that
future striking at Japan will not neces-
sarily be in the separate and isolated forms
hitherto practised. On this evidence
there will be a welding together of the
various offensives till the attackers, now
in the improved position of being able to
attack when they will, shall be able to
attack where they will. A most important
step would be the taking of Rabaul. With
that as a base the converging attack from
many bases would begin to menace not
merely the fringes of what the Japs took,
which is actually all that has as yet
happened, but Japan’s own holdings.
Still, on the present evidence, this is
the rosiest possible view that anyone in
his senses can take of what lies ahead in
the Pacific war. It postulates not only
continued offensives but continued suc-
cesses. And that means fighting —and
bitter and savage fighting much of it is
sure to be. Those on the spot doing the
job have no illusions about that, however
cheerfully home-fronters, taking a rosier
view than anything as yet warrants, loaf-
ing away from essential war production,
reviving the carnival spirit, may be able
to view the prospect ahead. Whatever
else may be said about 1945 or any
earlier war-end predictions, there is small
hope for any of them unless realism re-
places such optimism and overconfidence.
Even one more year of heavier fighting
is a grim enough thought for anyone who
can really understand what it means.
PLAIN ENGLISH
It's Up to Us!
In an unwonted burst of frankness a
trade-union secretary admitted last month
that “the workers collectively have more
cash now than they ever had.” It is
equally true that more money is going
into bookmakers’ bags, totes, lottery
offices, picture shows and pub and jazz-
joint cash registers than ever before. But
relatively to what is available and what
is asked for, it isn’t true of the Fourth
Liberty Loan.
When the loan had been on the market
for 18 days and there were 16 days to
go, the total amount subscribed was
£50,000,000 short of the £125,000,000
required, and it had come mostly from
Government Savings Bank Commis-
sioners, the Queensland Government,
life-assurance and other companies. The
number of subscribers was 210,000 —
540,000 fewer than the Government’s
“target,” and a little more than a tenth
of the number of people who voted for
it at the August elections. Another week
brought 60,000 subscribers of £20,000,000.
If the taste for wagering among those who
put first things first had not been sickened
by glozing accounts of the operations of
hard-faced punters at the races, an aston-
ishing number of whom go there with
their pockets stuffed with banknotes of
big denominations, it would be safe to
wager that most of the 270,000 belong
to the hard-pressed middle-class.
It is only in Australia that war loans
lag. In Britain, Canada and the United
States they are always oversubscribed.
Making every allowance for the casual-
ness of Australians and for the “any-time-
will-do” spirit, the difference is discredit-
able to Australia.
It is not right that the Queensland Gov-
ernment or any other State Government
should be in a position to make substan-
tial subscriptions to war loans, and draw
interest for which the whole people are
responsible, when the Government which
placed these concerns in Easy Street is
itself so hard-pressed for war funds. It
should take control of all State Govern-
ment surpluses and so-called reserve
funds resulting from its expenditure and
distribution of income-tax revenue, and
use them for war purposes. But its slack-
ness in this respect gives no individual
any valid excuse for not subscribing if
he has the means. Neither does any other
of its sins of commission or omission,
nor its politics, nor its objective, nor its
personnel. The £125,000,000 is urgently
needed, and, as Mr. Menzies has said, it
would be asked for if a Menzies Govern-
ment were in office.
Failure to subscribe by those in a posi-
tion to do so would amount to a betrayal
of the men of the fighting and auxiliary
services to whom we owe our preserva-
tion from the horrors of Asiatic invasion.
And if the loan is not a success we w'ill
go some furlongs further on the road to
inflation which might ruin us all.
Pride and Example.
“Ek Dum” notes some contrasts:
Taking an index figure of 100 for employ-
ment in the Australian aircraft industry at the
outbreak of, the European war, development
when Japan declared war was represented by
the figure 915. By July, 1943, there were 25
times as many people employed in aircraft
construction as in September, 1939.
On Dec. 7, 1941, thanks to the early enterprise
of the Menzies Government, the great factories
for the production of bombers were in opera-
tion and the first seven Australian-built Beau-
fort bombers were in the air. The magnitude
of this performance in two years in a country
where, before the war, it had been decided to
manufacture an aircraft engine, not because of
its supreme power and efficiency, but because
of its extreme simplicity of construction, is
difficult to put into words. The efficiency with
which it was organised, mainly by an Australian
in his early forties, with no previous overall ex-
perience of .the aircraft industry, speaks for
itself.
Since Japan entered the war hundreds of
Beauforts have been built as a completely Aus-
tralian job, from engine to turret and tail, by
Australian men and women in the spirit which
Australia needs. New enterprises, hurriedly
organised to top production with labor hastily
drilled to the use of unfamiliar tools and with
dire necessity ever barking in the background,
should lead in theory to a nerve-on-edge atmo-
sphere and plenty of industrial trouble.
But, unlike sullen coalminers, the employees
of the great Beaufort works are able to say that
they have put enough Beauforts into the sky to
patrol the Australian coast and to range on
missions far beyond it, without a single day
lost through industrial trouble.
The marvel is that this great feat of Austra-
lian men and women, which is paralleled but
not surpassed in many other avenues of Aus-
tralian war industry, stirs so little emotion in
the official breast.
Less than two years after the Beaufort was
launched in the Commonwealth the names of
eight gallant fellows who flew Australian-built
Beauforts figured on one list of R.A.A.F. air-
men decorated for war service. This fact,
creditable to builders as well as fliers, was
not brought out. Although Liberators, Fort-
resses and Mitchells and occasionally British
Beaufighters figure regularly in the headlines,
mention of the all-Australian Beaufort is rarely
made. It was not even mentioned that a recent
brave feat which involved serious damage and
probably destruction to an enemy cruiser off
Kavieng, and in which one of our aircraft was
lost, was the work of Australian Beauforts.
They do these things better in Britain. There,
every group of factory workers who build
aeroplanes is linked with the battle organisation
which flies them. The workers are kept in
touch with the performances of the craft they
build; the public with the performances of
builder and flier alike. The result is as perfect
a voluntary brotherhood and sisterhood of
effort devoted to a common purpose as the
world has ever known. The workers realise
that they are part of the actual fighting line.
But the Australian Government has still to
learn its lessons; still to learn that the ex-
amples of unity and efficiency in a common
cause given by the employers who provide such
an organisation and such ideal working con-
ditions as those of the Beaufort and similar
corporations, and the thousands of workers
under them who are building Beauforts and
others of the world’s most modern aeroplanes,
ŵ
ẁ
UNCONDITIONAL SURRENDER.


a scrap
of paper
.... but fn the event of your
death a most important document
which will provide security for
your dependants. Without delay
see the Equitable Probate and
General Insurance Company for
expert advice on protection for
your family. •
Be prepared—Be assured.
EQUITABLE PROBATE
L AND CENERAI INSURANCE CO LTD
Head Office: 371-373 Queen St., Brisbane
Wingello House, Angel Place, Sydney,
Colling House, Collins Street, Melbourne.
It. V. PHUKINS, General Manager.
AU’AUSTRALIAN
AND BETTER FOR THAT
x.
J
V j
, • >
THE ONLY
ALL-AUSTRALIAN
SPARK PLUG
INVEST IN THE
LIBERTY LOAN
ẃ
PUBLIC 7 TRUSTEE
Acts \s
Trustee, Executor,
Administrator, Agent
or Attorney.
Under STATE GUARANTEE.
Absolute Security.
Estates efficiently and
economically managed.
WRITE OR CALL FOR
FREE BOOKLET.
19 O’Connell St. (Box 7A, G.P.0.),
Sydney.
W. B. Geddes, Public Trustee.
Collins-street. It is in the big cities, and
especialiy in the trades halls, that the main
opposition to immigrants is seated. In
the country nobody seriously opposes
anybody who wants to make a start, and
it is in the country that Australia needs
new population, not in the overgorged
cities.
It is in the country, too, that the immi-
grant can best help the progress of this
continent. Once let the population of
rural districts jump by thousands and the
Governments would have to set about
using public money for the provision of
those amenities which, far too long, have
been the prerogative of the cities. But,
above all, the newcomers must be given
freedom of movement, freedom of voca-
tion and freedom from planners.
POLITICAL POINTS
Queensland has acquired a People’s
party, with Lud Mayor Chandler, now
M. for Hamilton, as leader. And
N. U.A.P. is to suffer a sea-change
into something rich and strange (perhaps),
with a new label, a bit of everything for
everybody and (possibly) ex-Premier
Stevens for leader in place of Mair. A
Menzies comment is that “a new move-
ment should not merely be content with
an election programme and a name: it
should have a political philosophy, a
political religion ; its founders must have
great ideas,” Bob doesn’t seem enthu-
siastic.
The P.M.’s comments on the huge in-
crease in betting were characteristic of his
irritability when troubled and of his in-
ability to see that he is ever in any way
personally responsible for anything. He
and his Government were hardly back in
Canberra before they lifted the raceless
Saturday restriction. It had been imposed
as an urgent war measure, and its lifting
was naturally accepted as reflecting the
Government’s satisfaction and confidence
regarding the war. Hence it was taken
as the all-clear for reverting to the “car-
nival spirit” which shocked General
Blarney and others when they Returned
from the Middle East fighting.
The slackness and worse on the coal
front, the strikes holding up important
war works, the wharf troubles —all are
reflections of the recent past slackness in
the country’s political leadership. There
is a further reflection of the Govern-
ment’s satisfaction with itself and the war
in the heavy falling-off of V.D.C. parade
strength and the decline of the N.E.S.
There was a “clash in Caucus”
between Sydney Premier McKell and
Mark Anthony Davidson, who, a
member of Lang’s last Ministry, was left
out of McKell’s. Mark Anthony moved
for a referendum on the abolition of the
Upper House, William John said he in-
tended to stick to his intention of having
a referendum for reform of the Upper
House, and accused Mark Anthony of
“putting in the boot.” “Squealer!” said
Mark Anthony. “Knocker!” said Wil-
liam John. As all present get from £875
to £2500 p.a., with free travel, club and
library privileges, for very little toil,
nobody suggested a referendum on the
abolition of both Houses.
A brainy man is Scully, the Minister
of Commerce. Announcing another
grand conference, this time of landmen’s
organisations, to “discuss post-war
marketing,” he thoughtfully remarked
that “producers must be prepared to pro-
duce goods fbr demand rather than pro-
duce goods and hope there would be a
demand for them.” So nobody should
put a paddock under crop or order next
year’s woolpacks until somebody has
ordered extra bread for the week-end or
a new suit of clothes.
It was a bit blowy in Sydney one day
last week, and housewives going round
to the butcher that morning to engage
in the daily struggle for the family meat
had to hang on to their skirts and hair.
Doubtless they’ll sympathise with the
poor Homebush slaughtermen, who that
day struck against the windy weather and
didn’t kill 5000 sheep—and they hadn’t
killed 2000 the day before. As there was
to be a butchers’ picnic on Monday the
state of the family larder and of the
housewife’s mind was a subject for awe-
some contemplation. The state of a
striker’s mind is no longer a matter for
conjecture.
“If the German front collapses, it will
dwarf the debacle of Napoleon’s army
and will become the greatest military
disaster in world history.” Thus “General
von Seidlitz, vice-chairman of the Union
of German Prisoners,” broadcasting from
Moscow ; and it is a consummation de-
voutly to be wished. But the identity of
the warrior with the fizzy name is a bit
of a puzzle. Sydney “D.T.” says he was
“second in command to Field-Marshal
von Paulus at Stalingrad.” In a New
York “Times” translation of the Russian
bulletin announcing the surrender, 14
generals were named among the 46,000
captives, and Seidlitz was not among
them.
GIVE-IT-A-NAME COMPETITION.
(Open to everybody. Competitors so far: Stevens, Menzies, Mair, Spender
and Billy.)
In the “balance sheet” dragged out of
Thornton, boss of the Ironworkers’ Asso-
ciation or Red Racket, a surplus of £15,684
is shown as having been carried over
from the 1942 year. In a statement of
operations for nine months of the pre-
vious year, published “in pictorial form”
—in each case the operations were merely
those of Thornton’s Federal Council —
“excess funds” are given as £11,027. If
such discrepancies appeared in bank or
insurance-co. balance sheets there would
be the devil to pay.
'Fhere must be some difference between
the fighting man, prepared to risk his life
under terrible conditions, the housewife,
battling with food and fuel shortages
without complaint, and the striker who
stops work on any absurd pretext. Prob-
ably it lies in the belief of the soldier
that he’s fighting to maintain the race,
in the belief of the housewife that she
must maintain the family and the belief
of the workstopper that he must go on
making an unspeakable nuisance of him-
self.
General Alexander mentioned last week
that the defeat of the Italians had com-
pelled Hitler to throw into Italy and the
Balkans 35 to 40 divisions which could
otherwise have been hurled qgainst
Russia. He said more, all to the annoy-
ance of newspaper geniuses whose idea
is that if their strategy and dispositions
were followed winning the war would be
as easy as exploding toy balloons in
dinner-dance joints. “After all,” F. Ehrcn-
fried Baume sneered, “he knows only
what goes on in Italy.” Ehrenfried knows
what goes on everywhere this side of
Saturn.
The chairman of directors of the
Mayne-Nickless carrying concern revealed
at the annual meeting in Melbourne that
it had now to pay up to 18s. lid. in the
£ in war-time company tax ; and, since
money was needed for rehabilitation and
replacement of obsolescent plant, the
directors “viewed the future with mis-
giving.” Why on earth don’t they dis-
guise themselves as N.S.W.. coalminers,
go on strike, “formulate their demands”
and shout for a Second Front in Western
Europe Now?
Twelve years ago, on the principle that
something had to be done for “poor old
Arthur,” a defeated Labor candidate was
named inspector of Commonwealth
awards. Now there is a sub-department
of inspectors of Commonwealth awards,
and one of them has been going round
Sydney newspaper offices seeing if the
writing boys get the annual holidays pre-
scribed in the award —as if the union
couldn’t attend to that! There is evi-
dently to be another lot of inspectors to
police fuel rationing, and even Fadden
proposes another swarm to track down
suspected tax-dodgers. If all the inspec-
tors in Australia were flown to Finsch-
hafen, complete with files, the Japs would
bolt screaming to Madang.
Mussolini, shouting from the balcony
of the Palazzo Venezia on the night
of June 10, 1940;
Fighters of land, sea and air, Black-
shirts of the Revolution and the legions,
men and women of Italy, of the Empire,
and of the Kingdom of Albania, listen!
There is only one order. It is categorical
and obligatory for everyone. It already
wings over and inflames hearts from the
Alps to the Indian Ocean. Conquer!
“I will conquer, thou wilt conquer, ye
will conquer” (interval of three years and
three months) “ Sapristi, we are
conked!”
Reasons why a war-loan investment is
a sound personal proposition as well as
a patriotic duty:
Every major war brings with it the
threat of inflation. We haven't headed it
off; we already have a creeping form of
inflation. But we can keep fighting it,
and we may be able to keep it within
reasonable limits. One of the best ways to
fight inflation is for all of us to buy war
bonds to the top of our capacity. By
doing this we avoid spending that money
on a shrinking supply of consumers’ goods.
Thus we damp down the buying compe-
tition which if allowed to run wild will
drive prices up and up, price-control or
no price-control. Moreover, we create pur-
chasing power for ourselves after the war.
Millions of men will then be demobilised;
millions of war-plant workers will see war
plants shut down because contracts have
been cancelled. If the general public at
that time is ready to rush forward with
damned-up buying power, demanding con-
sumers’ goods which it couldn’t get during
the war, industry should be able to hire a
lot of people for peace-time production.
The correct, as well as patriotic, advice,
then, is: Buy war bonds up to the hilt in
this and later war-loan campaigns. There-
by help yourself in future and help the
nation stave off a runaway inflation which
injures everybody.
It appeared in a New York daily, but
every word is applicable to Australia.
In the limelight again, after years of
enforced obscurity, Albert Charles
Willis: Welsh coalminer, N.S.W. union
boss, friend and enemy of Lang, sup-
porter, opponent and supporter of
Federal Labor. He was secretary of the
Miners’ Federation (1916-25) and leader
of a strike which cost the unions
£750,000 ; president of the N. S. Wales
A.L.P. (1923-25), Labor M.L.C. (1925-
33), Labor Minister (1925-27 and
SI), Labor Agent-General (1931-32);
anti-Lang candidate for Bulli (1933);
Federal Labor candidate (1934; lost de-
posit), Now rising 68, Willis has been
named in trial balloons as Government
nominee on the Central Coal Reference
Board in place of Drake-Brockman, J.,
sacrificed to. union bossism (and larrikin-
ism), and the appointment would be
characteristic of the crowd that has resur-
rected him.


w
Gold Medal
WINES
PERSONAL ITEMS
There won’t be any medals for what
they’ve done, but the four Australian
prisoners of war in Germany who, when
they might have come home by exchange,
volunteered to stay on in the prison camp
to look after fellow-prisoners deserve a
niche to themselves in records of the
Digger spirit. All four were Sydney men
—Peter Morris, of Vaucluse; Ralph
Johnson, of Fairfield; Pat Horton, of
Clovelly; Stan Bobridge, of Stanmore.
Morris, a former dental student, had a
special mention in the news as having
already “done marvellous work among
the prisoners.”
A man with a diversity of interests was
Archibald Howie, dead in Sydney at 64.
Builder and contractor (he was head of
the Howie, Moffatt concern and president
of the Master Builders’ Association in
1927), Chamber of Commerce man (presi-
dent in 1938), company director, Sydney
alderman (and Lord Mayor in 1937 and
’3B), member of the University Senate,
breeder of Jersey cattle (he had a fine
property, Navua, on the Nepean, and
was president of the Jersey Herd Society
for five years and of the R.A.S. in 1938).
chairman of the Advisory Panel for
Defence Works, Legislative Coun-
cillor and knight, he led a full life
and was useful to the end. Himself a
Technical College boy, he made Tech,
students his proteges for many years,
and he gave many a man a job at good
wages. In Macquarie-street he was a
diligent member and a brisk debater.
His familiarity with the building trades
and with the idiosyncrasies of their “char-
acters” (he was a bit of a “character”
himself), was acknowledged by Labor
members, though now and then they had a
brush with him.
When Zeppelins were threatening
London, a Victorian named John
Pomeroy provided the answer to the
menace in the shape of the Pomeroy
bullet, one of the most destructive mis-
siles for its size ever invented. Pomeroy,
who these days does research work at
Mitcham, near Melbourne, claims that
the new bullet which U.S. General Arnold
has described as an outstanding small-
arms development against aircraft is
based on a design he produced in 1940.
Before he became interested in these
lethal terrors, the inventor used to follow
the much more peaceful vocation of
selling pies near Flinders-street station.
“Pop’s Pies” are still obtainable in Mel-
bourne.
With the passing of Arthur Streeton,
Rupert Bunny becomes doyen of Vic-
torian artists. A year short of eighty,
he was in his artistic heyday at the end
of last century, when he was a frequent
exhibitor at the R.A. and the Paris
salons. He is probably the only Aus-
tralian artist whose work has been
bought abroad by the Felton Bequest,
which purchased for 500 guineas his
“Endormies” from the walls of London
Royal Academy. The son of a Judge,
Rupert Bunny was born at St. Kilda and
studied under Follingsby at the National
Gallery and later under Jean Paul
Laurens in Paris. At a time when he’d
come to be regarded as rather a back
number he returned from France with
landscapes which were at least as un-
usual as anything the young lions of the
“contemporary” movement startle the
public with these days. Daryl Lindsay
is arranging for a retrospective exhibi-
tion of his works at Melbourne Nat.
Gallery this year.
Some high compliments have been
passed on Australian airmen since the
present war started, but few higher than
that which Wing-Commander Gibson,
V.C., handed out in New York. Gibson,
who led the R.A.F. raids on Germany’s
big Eder and Moehne dams, named
Flight-Lieut. H. B. Martin, of Mel-
bourne, as “the best pilot in my squad-
ron.” Gibson said he had two Austra-
lian crews with him on the famous raid,
and “you couldn’t find better men any-
where.” Martin already has both D.S.O.
and D.F.C.
Whatever others may think of them,
the bare legs of today’s lasses —aye, and
their grandmothers—must be nothing but
an eyesore to Basil R. Orr, since, as well
as being the new president of Sydney
Chamber of Manufactures, he’s Lustre
Hosiery’s manager. A Sydneysider-born
(Bondi), he went to the stocking firm from
being sec. to General Electric. The ac-
countancy course which eventually led
to these posts was no sooner successfully
hurdled than Orr was off with the old
35th Batt. sigs His fighting days—in
BASIL R. ORR.
the course of which he once held the im-
portant rank of acting lance-corporal for
10 minutes —came to an abrupt end when
a piece of shell passed through his right
hand ; the same piece took half a hand
off his mate working beside him. Orr’s
worst thoughts about his own injury was
that he’d never be able to play the piano
again. Up to then he hadn’t sighted a
piano during his soldiering; now he
found himself in a Canadian base hospital
which had a piano in just about every
room. That may have helped the cure—
he can still play the piano.
“Hamfat”: Old theatricals must have
got a kick out of hearing that Bill Renno’s
grandson had won the D.F.M. in the
R.A.F.’s big dam-smashing effort. There
was a long stretch of coincidence about
it. Old Bill Renno, a stage mechanist,
made the effects for “A Flight for Life,”
a one-time popular melodrama in which
the big moment was the arrival from the
skies of a “flying ship” to rescue the vir-
tuous heroine and her companions, who
were getting a rough spin from pidgin-
speaking niggers. The “ship” would be
greeted with loud laughter today, but its
arrival used to be the occasion of wild
enthusiasm. Bill’s son Dave, father of
the flier, was also a stage mechanist for
a while, but broke away to start a city
business.
R. G. Casey figured lately in an Ameri-
can press report from Cairo describing
a campaign waged in the Middle East,
where he’s British Minister of State,
though member of the War Cabinet no
longer. This was the campaign fought
against locusts, “the greatest menace to
the Middle East since the Axis.” The
ammo used was sodium arsenite and
bran, distributed from strategic pools in
Port Said, Port Sudan, Tel Aviv, Basra
and Teheran, the R.A.F. providing ’planes
from which the enemy was strafed.
Thanks to a thorough grasp of the logis-
tics of locust warfare and a radio intelli-
gence system centring on Jerusalem,
Cairo, Nairobi and Wad Medani, the in-
vaders were everywhere driven back, leav-
ing the desert carpeted with corpses. Offi-
cial quarters, however, warn that the in-
vaders, masters of mobile warfare over
a shifting front, may be massing on new
strategic lines for a major offensive in
1944. This year their operations ex-
tended over a 650-mile front, the most
serious enveloping threat coming from
Southern Iran, into which countless
legions of the enemy moved in mass for-
mations last year to breed and start
training.
Already holder of the D.F.C. and bar,
Squadron-Leader Edward Lister Ifould
has now added the D.S.O. He’s the eldest
son of former Sydney Public Librarian
W. H. Ifould, now N.S.W. Deputy-
Director of War Organisation of Industry.
Follower of Voronoff:
Till the war interfered with the importing of
monkeys, Dr. H. Leighton Jones, at somewhat
out-of-the-way Dora Creek (Lake Macquarie,
N.S.W.), gave Australians who wanted it the
gland treatment he had studied with Voronoff
in Paris. Before he took to rejuvenation, Dr.
Jones (who has passed on at 76) had qualified
in turn as chemist, dentist and then doctor.
He took the dentist course while his younger
brother—Ben Jones, of Cowra (N.S.W.)—was
going through as a chemist. Then the elder
brother practised dentistry to keep things going
while the younger also qualified as a dentist.
This accomplished, Voronoff’s future disciple
studied medicine in America and Britain, re-
turned to Australia duly qualified, and was for
years medical officer in the Northern Territory,
one of the earliest of flying doctors.
The Royal Society of S.A. has ap-
pointed Miss Constance Eardley to its
council —the first woman there since the
society’s inception 90 years ago. A
botanist, and member for the past ten
years, she’s a daughter of Adelaide Uni.’s
Registrar, is a teacher of botany at the
Uni. and has charge of the herbarium at
the Waite Institute.
Dr. John Carew Eccles, who goes from
the directorship of the Kanematsu Insti-
tute, Sydney, to the chair of physiology at
Otago University (M.L.), is Melbourne-
born and one of Melbourne University’s
most brilliant products. Rhodes scholar
for 1925—-on the athletic side he was a
vaulter and tied for the Australian univer-
sities’ vaulting championship in Sydney —
he went to Oxford and became a fellow
of Exeter College and subsequently of
Magdalen. He has published a raft of
works on physiology.
The Seppelt who’s chairman and
managing director of the firm that has
been making good wine in Australia
since 1851 has the unusual Christian
names of Udo Waldermar for an un-
usual reason. His father, Benno Oscar
Pedro Seppelt, decided that none of his
children should have the same initials,
and, as he finished up with a family of
16 (12 boys and four girls), he had to hit
on some out-of-the-way monikers. It
doesn’t make any difference —U.W. is
Wally to those who know him. The
Seppelt property at Seppeltsfield (S.A.)
covers 14,000 acres, with a yearly output
HEAD OF SEPPELTS WINE.
of 2,000,000 gallons of wine and
1,000,000 gallons of brandy and other
spirits. The firm was started by the
present managing director’s grandfather,
who came out to South Australia with the
idea of growing tobacco. Finding the
soil too rich for the weed he planted the
vines. That original Seppelt had beep
forcibly made to go with Napoleon’s
army to Moscow, and it was 11 years
from when he started his soldiering till
he got back to his home. He then caught
the -first boat to Australia. Lately the
firm has gone in for large-scale produc-
tion of fruit juices to quench the thirsts
of Allied service men. Now 64, Wally
Seppelt was 20 years sec. of the company
before his recent appointment to the top
job.
Essington Lewis has no doubt by now
met a fellow-Companion of Honor in the
person of Sir Walter Layton, leader of
the British newspaper delegation that has
been giving Australia and its war effort
a brisk once-over. As well as being
“News-Chronicle” and “Star” chairman,
Sir Walter is a practical journalist on the
financial side, having edited London
“Economist” for 16 years. Himself a
Londoner, born 1884, he stated in Sydney
that plans were well advanced in that
quarter for producing the types of
weapons that will be needed to turn the
scrap in the Pacific into a major war once
Hitler is ditched. Also in the delegation,
Sir Neville Pearson saw active service
with the Royal Field Artillery in the last
war, after which he got into the C. Arthur
Pearson publishing concern, of which he s
now chairman, as well as being a Newnes
director. Both his marriages, the second
to Gladys Cooper, went wrong and were
dissolved. The other two members are
A. W. Wood, of the “Daily Express,”
and Samuel Storey, who has represented
Sunderland in the Commons since 1931
and is chairman of Portsmouth and Sun-
derland Newspapers.
Had a jubilee of church work in Adel-
aide, G. H. Jose, the Anglican Dean. He
began his work in China in 1893, but for
the past 40 years has been in S.A. —
acting-bishop at times.
Into the silence:
Died of wounds in New Guinea, Sergeant
J. Beck, of Croydon (Vic.), the, first Victorian
to become a casualty in this war wounded in
an air raid in England in 1940 when serving
with a field workshop unit. Wounded again in
the Middle East, he was twice wounded m New
Guinea. His father gained the Meritorious
Service Medal in the last war.
At 102, W. A. Weeks, Palmerston North
(M.L.). He had his first sight of M.L. in 1886
as one of a ship’s crew, decided that life
ashore there would be better than on the ocean
wave, and with a shipmate landed and hid till
the windjammer disappeared round Wellington
Heads outward bound. Though blind for the
past three years, he was in good health till
an accident laid him low.
Given a requiem mass in Adelaide, Arch-
deacon Kelly (70), who began his career in S.A.
Surveyor-General’s Department. Trained for
the priesthood at St. Patrick’s, Manly (N.S.W.),
he did great work, though at the expense of ms
health, in S.A.’s far west, from Port Lincoln
to Eucla and the Westralian border.
In Sydney, Rev. Adam Robert Maclean, since
1906 rector of St. Saviour’s, Redfern, the only
church in the Anglican diocese of Sydney
where the Eucharistic vestments were worn by
the officiating clergy. Father Maclean was
incumbent of the parish before Archbishop
Wright in 1911 forbade the use of the vest-
ments.
In Melbourne, Thomas A. Webb, for 40
years reader to the “Age” and a member ot
one of the most remarkable newspaper families
on the Inky Way in Melbourne. His grand-
father was head of the publishing room ot tne
“Age” in the ’seventies, when that paper had
its office in Elizabeth-street. Two of the grand-
father’s sons became “Age’ publishers, and
Frederick, the third son, became publisher ot
the “Herald.” One of Frederick’s sons became
publisher of the “Age,” another worked m the
same department, a third became the Herald s
publisher and the late Thomas A. became the
“Age” reader.
At 74, Martin Luther Reading, journalist.
Born in England, he got his first newspaper
experience in the comp.-room, and at 40 was
assistant editor of the “N.Z. Times, Welling-
ton (M.L.). From 1914 to 1924 he edited the
Lyttelton “Times,” Christchurch. His per-
sistent advocacy of domestic war loans had a
big effect on Maoriland’s 1914-20 finance.
From 1924 to 1936 he was editor of Brisbane
“Telegraph” and at the time of his death was
associate editor of the Toowoomba “Chronicle.
He was a Bulletin contributor and for many
years Maoriland correspondent of the Man-
chester “Guardian.” Mrs. Reading pre-
deceased her husband by a few days.
In Sydney, at 69, Frederick Graham Pratten,
who, with his brother, former Minister for
Trade and Customs H. E. Pratten, founded the
Pratten printing business in Sydney. A pioneer
of tin-dredging in Malaya, F. G. Pratten also
founded the Alluvial Gold concern which
dredged for the metal in Maoriland.
In Spain, M.L. Brigadier Reginald Miles,
who, after being made prisoner of war in the
Middle East fighting, escaped to Switzerland
with Brigadier Hargest as companion m the
adventure, and later made his way to Spain
in disguise.


Society
"AND IT'S PRINTED
WITH WIMBLE'S INKS"
“Pip”; Giving the tent a name is a
priority No. 1 job on hitting a new camp.
After hours of discussion and innumer-
able blues, a title is agreed upon and is
painted outside the tent, usually with a
flamboyant female ‘ for company. But
our tent’s title, “Mafeesh Bint,” tells the
truth. It means, literally, “no more
women.” However, “El Akabar” flaunts
a voluptuous lass dancing exotically.
N.C.Os. sleep in awful dignity at “Power
House,” while the rest of the rankers
hang out at such places as “Galahs’ Re-
treat,” “Jungle Paradise” and “The Old
Men’s Home.” Meals are eaten at the
thatch mess-hut, called, of course, “Hotel
Australia.” The “snakes” (sergeants to
you) dine at “Python House” and the
“apes” (officers) at “Gorilla Grange.”
The superoptimists of the camp reside
“I don't think Well sit so close to the ringside next time."
at “The No Hopers,” then trustfully
append the sign “Maid wanted ; must be
neat and ; light duties only.” So
far they’ve had no applications.
* * * *
“Clooter”: Sadly contemplating the
anaemic gas under the matutinal egg (I
like ’em hard-boiled), ruefully pondering
the fact that I’d have to shave in cold
water and gasp under a cold shower,
probably for the duration, mine eye
was cheered by reading in the morn-
ing paper that N. S. Wales coalies
had struck because a sparrow had
got into their bathroom. Though he’s
a pest, the cheerful sprog is an up-
lifting influence, and that he should be-
come the cause of another coal strike
seems unjust, until you consider that
miners have probably just about run out
of causes, anyhow. But hold—there was
a second reason for that strike: the men
couldn’t go shopping because the shop-
hands were having a holiday. The spec-
tacle of one set of workers striking be-
cause another set exercises its right to
take a holiday is sufficiently alarming, but
when it is added that a further reason was
that the butchers had no beef the outlook
becomes positively dizzy.
“Flagoner”: Young and Jack-
son’s “Chloe” (B. 27/10/’43)
has been temporarily sheltering
at Kozminsky’s Gallery while
the pub’s directors debated
whether to reinstall her in the
saloon bar to brave the bottle
and the lees or bury her in a
catacomb till after the war.
Before that could happen it
seemed likely that there would
be a cash-in on the lady’s recent
good press to the extent of ex-
hibiting her at 6d. a nob for
some patriotic cause —she made
£l6O that way three years ago.
I wish they would settle the
wench’s fate, for frequent’ news-
paper mentions of her keep me
racking a not very well-stocked
classical memory for some clue
as to her original identity. “As
drunk as Chloe” occurs as a pos-
sible guidepost, and the verse-
makers of Queen Anne’s day de-
lighted in associating her with a swain
or swipe named Strephon, connected with
sheep-raising. The label also seems to
have been much in favor for female
slaves in the days befo’ de wah, and
Noah Webster contributes the interesting
fact that Chloe is a name “generally
appropriated to spaniels.” But I’d like
to be told authoritatively how drunk she
got, and why.
* * * *
Here come Geordies:
Last week’s Bulletin, with some personal
details of Ted Scorfield and mention of his
excellent book of drawings, wasn’t 24 hours
abroad before a savage seadog steamed in de-
manding to know what Scorfield meant by
changing his county and since when had York-
shiremen been calling themselves Geordies.
He had been a South Shields fellow-townsman
of Ted’s before Ted was one of England’s in-
ternational Rugby Union forwards. Ted him-
self was born at Tynemouth, whose foreshores
were long ago bloodied in clashes with plunder-
ing Danes and Norsemen. Between these visits
Geordies kept fit in clashes with freebooting
Scots and in the wild Douglases v. Northumber-
land Percys feuds. To keep the Scots out the
Romans built the old wall, the end of which
on the Tyne became Wallsend. Hence Walls-
end of the N.S.W. Hunter coal belt, where
Newcastle and Morpeth and thousands of
Geordies or descendants of Geordies give
Tyneside names, idioms and honest dials an
Australian setting. More Geordies and Geordie
speech can be found thick around Australian
dockyards, recalling that Wallsend-on-Tyne was
the building-place of the old Mauretania,
Atlantic Blue Ribbon holder for 18 years and
sister ship of the Lusitania, which played a fair
part in bringing America into the last war. In
the present war South Shields has lost 5700 ot
its sons at sea alone—men of the Navy, mine
sweepers, convoys and trawlers. It has the older
honor of being home port of the first British
officially recognised lifeboat service. The brigade
house is surrounded by a hundred or two ot old
painted figureheads-angels, dolphins and the
like—from ships wrecked in the vicinity: the
worst was 50 or so in one gale. The original
lifeboat is still there, at die base of the pier.
North Shields, across the Tyne, was the habitat
of John Foster Spence, who invented the rocket
apparatus which, with the Tyne lifeboats, has
helped save thousands of lives. The authentic
Geordie country is the Northumberland and
Durham Tyneside, and from there and there-
regiment for its splendid service in 1914-18. In
those years the regiment formed no fewer than
s ?a bat . ta^,9 ns > c-p?u ltlsh
old Fighting Fifth was at Mons, and battle
honors of the regiment (it was at Lucknow
and the Modder River) include Ypres (1914,
T 5, T 7 and T 8), Italy* Salonica and Gallipoli,
where Scorfield did some of his soldiering, at
Helles. Its enough to say of the regiments
Geordies in the presejit war that they are with
the Eighth Army.
“ Cripes, I wouldn't join the A.I.F.; they can send you anywhere!"
“Arter”: A suggestion that a 100 p.c.
sales tax should be placed on auction
gales of antiques, curios and objets d’art
generally has produced a rather curious
reaction in the form of declarations by
people who bought collectors’ pieces in
sales-rooms that they made wonderful
bargains. A chap who bought a pair of
“hand-sculptured brass pieces” for £9 was
assured “by experts” that they were
worth £lB. Some other “expert” de-
clared that a silver tray which brought
£65 would have sold for £165 at Christie’s,
and there have been claims that four
vases sold for 20 guineas were “worth 60
guineas.” To which, of course, the sceptical
might retort that, in the absence of any
recognised authority of the weight of
Christies’s or Sothern’s in London, the
market price for collector pieces in Aus-
tralia is just what a collector can be in-
duced to pay. Naturally, every buyer
likes to feel that his expertise is superior
to that of the dealer, but it isn’t very
wise to counter a threat of a 100 p.c.
sales tax with stories of 100 p.c., 200 p.c.
and 300 p.c. bargains.
Sj< Sfc
“Zake”: Synchronously with the rise
to eminence of A 1 Capone, Hollywood
script writers went cold on the two-
gun he-man cattle rustler of the West,
and began to apply their plot-recipes
to city gangsters with names like
“Butch Piccolomini,” “Finger Sapronti”
and “Porriotti the Monk.” These sinister,
swarthy coves wore armpit holsters,
walked with hands obviously grasping
Colts deep in their overcoat pockets or
toted the weapon known as a “type-
writer.” When the sub-machine-guns
crashed these Eyetie heroes, scorning to
duck, stood up to the battle like Ajax
defying the lightning. And of them all
George Raft was the uncrowned king.
With his sleek black hair, calm manner
and complete contempt for lethal
weapons, George raised the Italian gang-
ster to a pedestal alongside the paladins.
Then came the Libyan gallop, the
Tunisian sprint, the Sicilian orgy of white-
flagging and unconditional surrender. It
will take more than George Raft has to put
the Eyetie gangster humpty-dumpty back
on his wall. Gunmen of that race will
provide comedy only from now on.
* * * *
“Flicker”: A point the Theatre and
Films Commission in N. S. Wales might
have considered is the effect on the
juvenile sense of humor of exposing very
young children to Hollywood’s gorier
melodramas. Interest in the revival of
a rather unusual film of seven or eight
years ago took me at night to a suburban
theatre in a very closely populated Syd-
ney suburb. Fully a third of a closely-
packed audience appeared to consist of
youngsters under seven. They were there
to be amused, and they were amused.
They screamed with laughter as an old
woman and a girl mourned _ over the
co ffi n G f a young gangster slain by the
u they f ound a H t he elements of
f f
rollicking farce in the pleadings tor
mercy of a wretched fugitive, and they
near jy brought down the house with their
, stnnv farpd nccasGn mimned
glee when a stony-taced assassin pumpea
six revolver-shots into the poor creature s
twitching body. We got out at half-past
e j eV en. Those kids should have been in
, , , • m .•
bed during all the time they wei e ex
tractmg merriment from murder,
* * * *
“Tonsi”: Hobartians can now hold up
t bdr heads when Sydney boasts about its
bridge. With the swinging into position
of the 25,000-ton pontoon structure link-
jn g 'J ie eastern and western shores of the
Derwent, Hobart claims to possess the
. I . , u „ VT- T,, m ;
longest bridge m the Southern Hemi-
sphere—4oooft.—and a unique structure
a j that, since it is the only one in the
wor } d th a t depends on hinges instead of
, , , v ~ . P. A
anchors to keep it in position. A. M.
Knight, of the Tas. P.W.D., designed it.
ŵ
TAINTED MONEY.
“At the Methodist Church Synod in Brisbane it
was disclosed, that a donation of £3OO from the
Queensland Turf Club to the Presbyterian-Methodist
Soldiers’ Welfare Association had been returned
because of the methods by which it was raised.”
A mad, mad world is this wherein
We find ourselves, my masters.
Some stick as tight to tendered tin
As chests to porous plasters;
While some, with whom perchance we look
To be as well acquainted,
May view the fairest coin as crook,
The cleanest note as tainted.
I fell asleep, and felt a shock
To learn, without a warning,
State lotteries had got the knock
And hospitals were mourning,
And wond’ring where the funds they’d get
For which they’re always scrambling
Now exes, could no more be met
With grants obtained from gambling.
I dreamed, from growls in spectral throats
And frowns'on many a forehead,
For Governments to grab from totes
Percentages was horrid.
I dreamed that even loans for war
Were viewed with some suspicions
From such contributors as bore
The brand of metailicians.
I dreamed the income-tax brigade
Became no longer dreaded
By those whose steady gains are made
Where browns are tailed or headed.
The game, they said, by Law was banned ,
And surely ’twould be funny
Should Law, though thus defied, demand
Its cut of tainted money.
I dreamed the things that fancy dreams
When daytime facts are distant.
Well, anyhow, I thought, it seems
We’re growing more consistent.
No more with subterfuge we cloak
The things we pose as scheming
To sweep away. And then I woke
And knew ’twas only dreaming.
N.S.W'*
T. THE R.
DEPARTED BUSHRANGERS.
(Suggested by “Contractor’s” par., B. 27/10/’L3.)
Strange as it seems, explain it how you will,
In these allegedly enlightened years
Some semblafice of an aura lingers still
About the names of bygone bushrangers.
Some quaint tradition still their memory hallows,
Lends them a touch of glamor, one might say,
Whether they met their end upon the gallows
Or any other way.
The fact they ramped and ravaged, robbed and
killed
Till they were hunted down in days agone
Seems scarcely a sufficient ground to build
Material for hero-worship on.
Yet still the records live in song and story,
And even on the stage, I’m told, at times,
Of ruffians whose only claim to glory
Lay in atrocious crimes.
Does someone say I’m overcritical,
And offer precedents from England when
Attractive traits were found in Claude Duval,
Turpin and other noted highwaymen?
But then the period of which they tell is
Two centuries behind us. And perhaps
I feel a shade of doubt if (say) the Kellys
Were quite that sort of chaps.
Give me, for heroes of thqse bad old days,
Worthy in real honor to be held,
Those who must go without a word of praise,
Their names forgot, their deeds unchronicled.
Not the abominable crime-purveyors,
Rank with iniquity and steeped in sin,
But the intrepid souls who slew the slayers,
The cops who “did them in.”
N.S.W.
MIDFORD.


“Driver”: Some of the 1914-18
veterans who revisited Blighty this time
must have had mixed feelings on ap-
proaching old haunts. At one we
began to talk to the lady behind the bar.
She inquired after a certain lieutenant,
and we kidded her a bit about her in-
terest until she grew serious and de-
clared “My word, I would like to see
him again. That’s his daughter over there.”
* * * *
“O. B. Server”: “Oxmead’s” conclu-
sion that “we are more indelicate or less
squeamish than our ancestors” (B.
20/10/’43) is a non sequitur. It is
obvious that “Alex’s” S.M. (B. 13 /10/’43)
in his statement on “standards of
decency” referred to what may be talked
about, whereas Macauley’s statement in
“Oxmead’s” par. refers to “what may be
said.” For instance, though it is not
considered indelicate now to show or
gaze upon or talk about bare midriffs
(cf. any beach) it is now indelicate to
refer to the uncovered section as a
“belly.” In fact, if Fowler is to be be-
lieved, it is fast becoming indelicate even
to refer to it as “stomach,” “tummy”
being considered more retained. No! we
may be less inhibited in practical
morality, but we are as genteel as ever
in our spoken delicacy. James Joyce’s
words wouldn’t even have made a
Georgian lady blink, and my Victorian
grandmother knew that the way to a
man’s heart lies through his belly—not
his tummy. Besides, not even sailors
talk about bumboats nowadays.
* * * *
“A Major”: “Bohemian’s” story (B.
20/10/’43) about Kubelik playing on a
cheap fiddle may be suspected, by those
who, like myself, had some small ac-
quaintance with the eminent virtuoso, to
be apocryphal, but there’s nothing impos-
sible in it. There is no instrument whose
playing more depends on “touch” than
the violin does, and a master might well
make better music with anew, cheap in-
strument than could be made by some-
one less gifted with a 250-year-old Strad.
or a 300-year-old Amati. And while
well-made violins undoubtedly do im-
prove and mellow with age, such tests as
have been made go to show that, so far
from violin-making being a lost art, it is
a still-developing one. In Paris, 30 years
or so ago, a roomful of critical musicians,
including Conservatoire heads, noted
composers and executants, listened to
more than a dozen violins played one
after another behind a screen by one
violinist. The instruments employed in-
cluded some of the oldest and most cele-
brated fiddles that ever came out of
Cremona, but the jury acclaimed as pos-
sessing the finest tone a modern instru-
ment (price equivalent about £25) by a
French maker, with a 16-guinea English
fiddle, a few months out of the factory,
as a close runner-up.
“Eve”: Those yarns about violins on
this page drag my memory reluctantly
back to a fiddle I had about 12 years ago.
It was the ordinary type of hell-raiser
practised on by students. Being hard up
I took it to Uncle, deeming him, (in those
days of innocence) one to be easily im-
posed upon. “I want ten pounds on it,”
I said, so calmly that the back of my
neck pleats itself now with horror when
I remember. This particular pawnbroker
(now dead, but through no merit of mine)
just laughed unpleasantly and inspected
the case much more intently than he eyed
the violin. “It’s only the usual two-piece-
back type,” he said. “Not worth thirty
bob to me. Still, I’ll give you two
pounds.” I took the two quid and left
quickly. Next day I realised why he had
been so generous (and I also knew it
would be no use tackling him about it).
I suddenly remembered that, in the pocket
of the violin case, where one keeps the
cake of resin and odd strings, I had also
left my plain gold unidentifiable wrist
watch.
* * * *
“P.McM.”; A lie detector has been used
in interrogating witnesses at the Sir Harry
Oakes murder trial—an apparatus in
which a needle records nerve vibrations
on a disc. I would say that the machine’s
effectiveness depends mainly on its
cautionary effect on the witness. Its use
has occasioned arguments as to which
sex is better at evading the truth. Ches-
terton asked a clergyman. The padre
replied that,# whilst he could invariably
detect when young boys were lying, inno-
cent little girls could look him straight in
the eye and tell enormous fibs without
batting an eyelid.
* * * *
“J.H.M.A.”: Discussion about the
original of A. B. Paterson’s “Man from
Snowy River” (B. 20/10/*43) raises the
question whether Paterson or any other
author ever had a particular original in
view when he drew some character of an
outstanding and picturesque sort in verse
or fiction. If Paterson himself had been
asked whether he meant anyone in par-
ticular he would probably have answered
in the negative—his brumby-chasing
young horseman might have been drawn
from half a dozen or more people he’d
come across. When readers assume that
a writer must have been thinking about
someone who fits the part he has created
they deny him any imagination or ability
to draw a character that is a combina-
tion of many people and the writer’s own
mental photography and knowledge of
his subject. Having known Paterson
pretty well, I’d be game to bet a penny
that his Snowy River hero was a type
and not an individual.
“B. A. Ker”: I’m a chemist and I like
these Allied service men. They’re all
right once they get used to the idea that
I’m not letting down the whole pharma-
ceutical profession by not running a soft-
drinks bar. But I find some of ’em hard
to understand. T’other day one comes in
and drawls; “Say—mah buddy’s gotten a
cawld ; Ah want a bottle of Wait Pain.”
I interpreted the first part all right, but
the Wait Pain was new. Then inspira-
tion came. “There you are,” I says, and
shoves a bottle of good old Pain Killer
at him. The lad from across the ocean
looks it over. “Nope. Ain’t the dope,”
he declares. “Perhaps it’s not sold in
this country,” I suggest. “Ah’ve bought
it here,” he maintains, his eye roving
along the shelves as he’s talking. “Why,”
“Well, girls, he won't come fluttering round here any more!”
he exclaims suddenly, “that’s it there!
‘Wait Pain and Tor.’ ” Of course —
White Pine and Tar! •
* * * *
“Decapo”: A reference (B. 13/10/’43)
to Berlioz in his capacity as music critic
brings to mind a classic example of his
pungent style. It was a performance at
the Paris Opera of Flotow’s “Martha,”
in which is incorporated “ ’Tis the Last
•Rose of Summer,” borrowed from Irish
minstrelsy via Tom Moore. Berlioz
wrote, in effect, “The delicious Irish air
was so simply and poetically sung by
Patti that its fragrance was sufficient to
disinfect the rest of the work.” That is
worthy to stand beside the classic example
of terse dramatic criticism, which referred
to a performance of a once-popular melo-
drama the great scene in which is the
pursuit by bloodhounds of a slave-girl
across an ice-strewn river. A bored re-
porter dismissed this epic in two sen-
tences : “ ‘Uncle Tom’s Cabin’ was
played at the Town Hall last night. The
hounds were poorly supported.”
* * # *
“Liverpolitan”: In my home city, on
the Mersey, “next Friday” means the
Friday of the following week. “This
Friday” means the Friday of this week,
and I maintain that is logical and sensible
usage. I have been bamboozled more
than once by people saying “See you next
Friday,” which to me meant the follow-
ing week, whilst to Australians it appears
to mean “this week.” Just by the way,
we citizens of Liverpool call ourselves
Liverpolitans, not Liverpudlians.
* * * *
“Hamer”: The first residential flats
designed as flats built in Australia were
erected by George Fairbairn in Prahran,
purely as a benevolent idea. The eco-
nomic argument was that, on a given
area of land, six or eight flats could be
placed on the space occupied by a couple
of cottages, with a saving in ground
rental. But an estate agent who was
given the letting job was horrified at the
idea of letting the well-built, roomy places
with all mod. cons, at 15 bob a week.
Fairbairn let him have his way, and the
flats were let at nearly double what he
intended. A couple of decades later,
when I viewed them, they had changed
hands, and the rent was 525. 6d.
And, of course, the increased value
gathered from the block enhanced the
value of land all round, until ultimately
flat-building became compulsory if ade-
quate returns were to be secured from
the capital value of the land—a curious
example of how philanthropy can fail in
its intention.
* * * *
“Caballer”: I can corroborate “Zake”
(B. 20/10/’43) about that mine under
Bapaume Town Hall. I was one of the
early ones in Bapaume and saw the engi-
neers examine the floor to see if it had
been tampered with. They guaranteed
that it had not been disturbed for years.
A similar guarantee against the Hun
sinking a shaft in a house across the
street, tunnelling under the Town Hall
and packing the foundations with am-
monal might have prevented a Comforts
Fund crowd, a troop of Light Horse and
two French politicians taking up their
quarters on the unbroken floor. The
Hun in his painstaking and thorough
manner had blown up the house across
the street so that the mouth of the shaft
was buried in debris. There was no-
thing suspicious except the fact that the
one outstanding and important building
in Bapaume had been left intact. For two
or three hundreds of us drank cocoa
and read the “Daily Mail” with destruc-
tion under us, and only the fact that the
show went up at nine o’clock at night,
when most of us were getting back to
our bivvies, kept the death-roll as low as
it was. The blast got the two politicians,
the Comforts Fund staff and some of the
Light Horse. Eight hours after the explo-
sion we got the debris away from a door-
way and out walked a Light Horseman.
He took out a packet of cigarettes, lit
one and strolled off without a word to
anyone, and even the hardened infantry
forbore to chide him with being “batman
to a horse.”
* * * *
“Looby”: I don’t think our local trou-
badour of misery will return. He has a
repertoire of four songs, all sad and
sung with a lengthy pause after every six
notes. He took up his stance last Sunday
as usual and delivered his first ditty. To
get rid of him quicker a hopeful soul
tossed down a threepence. The singer
clutched it swiftly to his bosom, looked
up and said “Thank you, thank
you ; I’ll sing you another. I coughed
in the last one.” The threepence-thrower
feigned surprise. “Sing?” he queried.
“Were you singing, too?”
* * * *
“The 0.D.”: Australian artists aren’t
the only ones who make bloomers. A
Mickey Mouse strip in the Queensland
“Courier-Mail” of 23/10/’43 shows M.M.
and a mate talking. They’ve taken up
farm work as a contribution to the
national war effort, but I don’t expect
them to last long, seeing that M.M. is
busily sharpening a sickle on a Grind-
stone !
* * * »
“Nipper”; So “Norther” (B. 27/10/’43)
would “no more think of eating shark
than of dining off horse or crow.” One
can dine off shark without asking for it
as such ; -and if “Norther” has tucked the
bib under his chin at some of Mel-
bourne’s fried-fish foundries he’d
certainly have masticated gummy-shark
under the alias of “sweet William.” In
Sydney the bluenose school shark, com-
mon along the coast and in the estuaries,
is finding its way into shops. My
introduction to shark-eaters was at Cowan
Creek, on the Hawkesbury (N.S.W.).
Bluenoses about 3ft. long were trouble-
some, and one, hooked, made an unholy
mess of the snapper lines as he tore
around the boat. When my brother skull-
dragged him in, belted him on the snout
with the rudder handle and heaved him
up on the rocks three fish-hungry blokes
from Bathurst pounced on it joyfully.
Thereafter any sandpaper-skinned pests
we caught found takers.
V * * »
“Hist”; I do hope the Priminister won't
be carried away by the fascination of
coining snappy slogans like “Back the
Attack.” Otherwise I fear Curtin may be
heard exhorting us to “Incline to the
Miners,” “Reward Mr. Ward” and, as
a New Year’s motto for the nation,
“Retreat from Meat.”
* * * *
“Petrie”: There are Yanks to whom
the attractions of New Guinea outweigh
those of Australia, Talking to one of
them I asked whether he was coming
back after the war. “No,” he replied
with a grin ; “all my company has picked
out a location in N.G. We were digging-
in there and struck gold. See here”
and he showed a slug as big as a bullet.
% * * #
“Bo”: Dutton, 14-stone and a grass
bachelor, returned home just when a
visitor was busy searching for the
Dutton wad. The treasure-seeker, a
stocky, sandy-haired individual with a
mild eye, calmly put back on the mantel-
piece the old teapot he had been explor-
ing. Then he faced the owner, gave the
faintest sigh and said: “You win. The
John’s joint is just up the street. I
suppose that’s where we’re bound
for.” Dutton gave a rumbling laugh.
“Well, y’ didn’t think I was going
to take you up to the pub and shout
you a double-header, did you?” The
uninvited one reached for his cady. “Then
I suppose we’d better get going,” he
remarked in his even voice. For answer
Dutton removed his coat. “We’ll dis-
pense with the legal proceedings,” he
said; “I’ll take it out of your hide!”
The visitor sighed and poked out his chin.
“Well, I suppose I asked for it. Have
a go.” Dutton swung a terrific right,
but the jaw wasn’t there. Instead, a bat-
tering ram short hook took Dutton in the
midriff. As the now-enraged Dutton
flayed the air the visitor snapped and
ducked with incredible speed, and in two
minutes the slaughter was over. Then the
stocky one methodically ripped open the
vest of his recumbent late adversary and
helped himself to the notes reposed
therein, transferred them to his own
pocket and, phlegmatically surveying Dut-
ton’s rapidly closing orbs, said in his flat,
even voice; “There’s a couple of things
you want to stick to, mate, and one of
them is your coat —always keep it on.”
“What’s the other?” mumbled the curious
Dutton out of swollen lips. “First
thoughts,” replied Stoc-ky, and softly
closed the door as he departed.


ABORIGINALITIES
“M. 8”: What sort of sissies are
shingling the jumbucks these days? My
Queensland paper has it that a bunch of
greasies downed handpieces in a Long-
reach shed because they thought they’d
catch something from a few jummies
with scabby mouths. Gripes, in my time
we never worried what they had —just
went through ’em from rams to lambs,
chancin’ everything from anthrax to
housemaid’s knee. The Longreach busi-
ness even reached the Full Bench of the
Industrial Court, where it was still being
fought out as this was written. I wonder
what some of these modern guns would
do if they got a real dose of Barcoo rot
and had a bottle of painkille'r poured
down their necks as a cure.
* * * *
“H.H.”: At Babel Island, off the east
coast of Flinders Island, I came on the
largest gannet rookery in Bass Strait.
There I looked on acres and acres of the
big, white sea-divers casually hatching
their eggs on the bare, barren ground.
For some time I sat amongst them and
watched Mr, and Mrs. Gannet take off
out to sea for lunch. One bird, with an
oddly peculiar marking, I watched par-
ticularly. Within an hour back it came
and, landing a chain away from me,
waddled in and out of eggs and sitting
rivals, and eventually came to her right
nest. There were millions of those
gannets and millions of uncovered nests
all the same —how do those birds know
their own eggs?
* * * *
“Swanlo”: Westralia has lake-beds
that periodically act in the same way as
that peatlike ground on the Darling
Downs (B. 22/9/’43). Filled during the
winter, in a long, dry summer they are
gaping with cracks. Bushfires burning
to the winter waterline mostly set them
going, and often one or several will burn
for weeks, pouring out clouds of smoke
and filling the atmosphere for 50 miles
around with the reverse of perfume. The
explanation is that such lake-beds con-
sist of thick deposits of diatomic earth:
the diatom being itself a plant of micro-
scopic size and also producing a soil
peculiarly favorable to larger forms of
vegetable growth.* The result is an earth
that shows but little resemblance to peat
but when dry burns just as readily. Once
on fire such a lake-bed can be extin-
guished only by heavy rain. One case is
known where, a drought happening
along, a W.A. lake-bed smouldered for
over six months. After burning the lake-
bed becomes a mass of white ash. This
is almost pure silica of infinite fineness,
identical with the “kieselguhr” that is
used to body up nitro-glycerine so that it
becomes safe-to-handle dynamite. Some-
thing like half a million tons of this
diatomic earth fills the lake-beds around
Perth.
* * * *
“J. Rilston”: Since “Nor’-west” (B.
22/9/’43) has met with little success with
the orthodox abo. tools for fire-making,
may I introduce him to another couple
of styles? Take a sizable piece of flat
wood, bone dry. With a sharp stone or
a knife point scrape a straight groove
about six inches long. Take another
stick, round and fairly slender, sharpen to
either a point or a thin The
method is to rub the point to and fro
along the groove. Fine wood dust soon
accumulates and begins to smoulder. A
second method even more suitable for
Caucasian arm muscles resembles the
turning of a carpenter’s brace. First the
sole piece with a shallow countersink as
in the abo. drill method. For the drill
take a two-foot length of spearwood or
something similar, any slender stick, dry
yet capable of bending stiffly. Point one
“These days a man has to use anything on wheels."
end and insert into countersink on sole
piece. Press on the other end with the
chest until stick bends, so allowing of a
boring action, even as the carpenter with
his brace and bit. No need to halt
through fatigue with this ; pressure may
be applied and the turning kept up until
fire results, though it is advisable to have
some sort of a pad on the chest; a small
tobacco-tin I always found best.
* * * *
“Edjudina”: Men who give way to a
bit of heat like those tub-sitters of the
Gulf country (B. 22 /9 / ’43) simply grow
softer and softer: that is unless they die
young. I knew one such tub-sitter. On
a Marble Bar day, when most of us were
still trudging around in our flannel shirts,
he lugged his tub down into a sleep-out
cellar and spent the day in it. Six days
later they fitted him with a box, the
doctor’s verdict being double pneumonia.
Some fellows always want to crawl into
a tub of water merely because it happens
to be a warm day ; but I’ve known hardy
battlers who tramped from breakfast-
time, and that shortly after dawn, till
teatime without even a drink. They
reckoned that once a man started suck-
ing at the waterbag he was done, had to
have more and more sips; so the only
way was to put a pebble in the mouth
and keep going. A man with a good
circulation isn’t troubled as to whether
it is broiling hot or freezing cold. And
the best circulation maintainer is to
walk at least 20 miles every day or do
the equivalent.
* * *
“B. 4”: Like “Pat Ater’s” land (B.
13/10/’43), Queensland also has the
native bee, known to us as the goubula.
Bluegums felled on flats occasionally
contain up to three nests. The little chaps
are common in sub-coastal tracts, trees
favored being box, coolibah and stunted
sandalwood. An abo. youth and self
when tailing weaners split many a
sandalwood sugarbag. Inserting a hefty
sapling in the fork we each fastened our
moke’s rudders oppositely to each end.
The job was to apply the brakes to those
surprised nags. Very little of the deli-
ciously tart honey came my way, as that
boong in top gear gulped the round cells,
bee-bread, bogged bees and larvae like a
hollow wolf. He then bolted for the
creek and, returning with bulging cheeks,
emptied a quart of water over the re-
mains, Gathering a bunch of dry grass
he swished and sucked, spitting out a
spray of grass and splinters till the cup-
board was bare and his replenished.
* * *
“Old-timer”: None of these professors
you hear about could hold a candle to
Buloke Bob for absent-mindedness. He
was boundary-riding out in the Prungle
country, which is a pretty absent-minded
sort of a job anyhow, and apt to reduce
anybody to a mental state in which you
didn’t care whether it was Christmas Eve
or the day before yesterday. Buloke did
a lot of funny things, such as tying him-
self up and letting the dog run loose,
striking dead matches on an empty box
or walking out the hut door and throw-
ing the potato peels inside, but his best
effort came the day he arrived in Euston,
hollow-eyed, saddle-sore and worn. He
dropped over his spent horse and said
“Gripes, I’ve had a time. Missed that
little horse o’ mine Tuesday an’ bin
combin’ the scrub f’r him ever since.
Rid every square mile between here an’
Gilalbey tank, all over Moonlight and
Gulthul. Not a hair or hide of him any-
where. Reckon he must ha’ cleared out.
Never thought he’d go away like that;
real good little horse an’ always stuck
around the camp up f now.” And sigh-
ing heavily he dropped to the ground,
dropped his bridle reins and went stiff-
legged intq the bar. There, over drinks,
we sympathised with his loss and some-
body asked what sort of a horse it was.
“Bit on the small side,” said Buloke, with
a sort of sad pride, “but game as they
make ’em. Brown, with a white patch on
his face an’ a white stockin’ on his off
hind foot. He” f- But then we seized
him gently, led him to the door and
showed him the knocked-out moke he’d
ridden in on. “Well, strike me blue,” he
whispered, with s a deprecatory grin. “On
his back all the time an’ never knew it!”
* * * *
“M.1.R.”; “Jachris” asks (B. 20/10/’43)
“who’d go fishing with a kite and cob-
web?” Papuans living around the shores
of Dobu Passage (D’Entrecasteaux group)
fish that way for garfish. One kite I
examined was made of large dry leaves,
sewn together with the fine, tough, fibrous
creeper which natives often use to plait
into arm and leg ornaments. It was
about 15in. long and roughly oval in
shape. Cord for flying it was also hand-
made from pandanus fibres. How many
white men would bother to go fishing if
they first had to make their own lines
and collect their “hooks” in the jungle?
* * * *
“B. 4”; “Nepean’s” Ben Bolt gulls
(B. 13/10/’43) are paralleled by Manx
pigs of the Burdekin and Flinders
rivers. A pair of questing Kellys
ever on the watch for tucker will land
behind a sow and her piglets. Woof-
ing and champing jaws savagely, the
angered sow makes futile rushes alter-
nately at each sable assassin, who nimbly
hop-flits away, the while his mate grabs
Piggy’s little corkscrew and wrenches it
off. These tactics are continued until the
squealing brood are all bangtailed and
other sows attracted to the riot. The
raucous black devils then depart with
derisive squawks and croaks, leaving a
maddened mother to console her nippers
for the loss of their waggers.
“B. A. Ker”: The late Dame Eadith
Walker, as well as being a lover of botany,
both natural and cultivated (as is evident
in the beautiful grounds of Yaralla, which
she bequeathed to Sydney’s Prince Alfred
Hospital), was also obviously a sincere
dog-lover. A wistaria-covered fence in a
secluded spot encloses probably the only
dogs’ cemetery in Australia. Fourteen
neat marble slabs bear the names of
Dame Eadith’s pets from 1893 to 1933.
Eccentric sentimentality? Perhaps. But
who hasn’t felt as his owner did when
she had engraved “Yarrow, a faithful
friend, 15th March, 1895”?
* * * *
“B. 4”: “Moyhu’s” guinea fowls (B.
13 /10/’43) which ambled back to the
chook stable appear to be more enamored
of domiciled life than their Queensland
confreres. Here the clacking twenty-ones
spend their time in the remoter suburbs
of the poultry paddock, ever wandering
with no fixed purpose, unless it be to
conceal their eggs from the exasperated
housewife. Many hatched on the confines
of the jungle scrubs adopt them as their
habitat, competing successfully with the
scrub birds for a living.
* * * *
“Lower Tops’!”: The experience of
shark fishermen in Victorian and Bass
Strait waters has proved conclusively that
sharks reside in definite areas for
periods. Catching of them for the
Melbourne fish market was begun on
an intense scale only 15 years ago.
Then the Queens-
cliff boats and later
the boats at Port
Fairy, Port Albert
and elsewhere used
to set their huge
long-lines only a
mile or two out.
Soon it was found
that if a set was
made on ground that
had been worked
once the catch was
almost nil. So as the
seabed was gully-
raked offshore by the
boats bigger vessels,
built expressly for
the trade, began to
engage in deeper
waters, until today,
if these stout
hookers are to fill
holds, it is necessary
for them to steam
up to 60 miles
from port. Perhaps
the most remarkable
outcofrie of this de-
mand for shark—
and shark livers for
medical purposes —
is the disappearance
of “snapper sharks”
from Victoria’s in-
lets and bays. Once during summer
months it was unusual to hook snapper
for any lengthy period because of the
arrival of these vermin. In recent years,
however, even in the remotest back-
waters, they are no longer a trouble; so
much so that for the first time for a
century the fishermen at Hastings can
now in summer mesh-net anywhere in
Westernport Bay without being bothered
by a shark.
.jp $ * *
* “Top Once”: Give a bushman an
attentive audience and it’s ten to one on
he’ll produce a snake yarn. It may be
about the hoop snakes west of the Dar-
ling that put their tails in their mouths
and roll away like a wheel, the Queens-
land python that invaded a dance hall
and swallowed an accordion player so
that those who chased it through the
scrub were guided by the muted sound
of the instrument, the Murray hatter who
found himself, in a big flood, being
carried down the river on a raft of
snakes, or the other hatter who found
his island invaded by them and got the
happy inspiration to play “The Weariri
o’ the Green” on his gramophone and
thus convinced the reptiles that they'd
landed on Erin by mistake and had better
leave before St. Patrick heard about it—
he’ll tell it if you’ll listen.
* * * *
“Sailor Bill”: Most of our native figs
have immense root systems (B. 6/10/’43).
In the N.Q. vinescrubs, home of the figs,
their roots run riot on the surface of the
ground and delve into cracks in basaltic
rocks, and split the stones to pieces. The
Moreton Bay and the white fig make a
practice of enmeshing neighboring scrub
trees with their aerial roots. Thin as
string at first, these roots thicken and
strengthen quickly, and it is never long
before the victim is completely entombed.
But when it comes to damaging property,
you don’t need fig-trees. I’ve known roots
of pawpaw trees to elevate a cement
pavement,
SOLDIER LOOKS HOMEWARD.
The tide of battle ebbs away,
but will return
and these green-draped caverns will resound
again
to the bitter drums of war.
Now, in this pause,
in which the very world seems to suspire,
the soldier slips his safety-catch,
eases his stiffened limbs
and, relaxing all but the well-trained brain’s
unsleeping eye,
unbars the door to his imprisoned mind.
Not in this alien world whose soil
is smeared upon his sweat-bright body
will his thoughts remain;
swiftly they wing across the hostile seas ot
space,
descending only in the sunlit fields of “Home.
This is a journey they have taken many times,
for, at its end,
lie things, unquiet and questioning,
that draw and challenge
even as they repel.
Here, in this world that presses on his flesh,
there are no questions,
all is resolved and clear;
demands are made, and met,
dnd the price paid without quibble
on either side.
There, where life is menaced only
in the mind that comprehends,
and for the rest only on the radio
or in the news,
and the demands made
are presented in polite language
with time to pay,
there the noise of disputation and denial
outclamors even the roaring of the wheels.
And the soldier,
listening beside his weapon,
feels in his blood a fear he has never known
in the battle-hour:
the fear that walks with disillusionment,
fear that whispers of betrayal,
that paints the vision of a lost ideal,
fear that cries he is the victim of a jest,
that all he does and is
can have no meaning
save glamor for the city breakfast-table.
The alarm again;
gratefully he returns to the automatic task,
puts on his resolution like a gas-cape, (
clears his mind of all but the old good purpose,
as a ship clears decks for action.
If the dogs of fear should prove
in the end wise,
and illusion be the ultimate discovery
—there is work to do,
and perhaps one might cheat it
in the kindness and truth of death.
A.I.F.
PETER MIDDLETON.


ACCOUNT RENDERED.
With what an angry and contemptuous eye
Our arrogant sun, now near his setting,
Peers, through a rent in an encumbered sky,
Upon this child of his begetting;
This sodden world, blurred in a blinding ram,
Full of sad trees and hearts despairing,
Birds that sit dumb or fitfully complain,
Chill miseries and pains past bearing.
And who is he, to look disdainfully
Upon the lives his rays engendered?
We have paid in full, the man, the bird, the tree,
The hard account he rendered.
MAORILAND. ARNOLD WALL.
* h= * *
“C.E.*’: “Examine arms!” bawled the
officer to the V.D.C. mob. The rifles
came smartly to position, some in front
and some outside the right hip. The
officer fastened on a bloke in the front
row. “Who taught you to hold your
rifle like that?” he demanded testily.
“Well, that’s how we held ’em in the last
war,” protested Steve, glancing right and
left along the line. “I ’member Tonto’
lecturin’ us on it outside Flers, near
that oT sugar fact’ry; didn’t ’e, Dan?”
“Too right,” agreed Dan, “only it wus
Pozieres. Don’t y’ remember Sausage
Gully an’ the Chalk Pit an’ that flamin’
Kay trench?” “Pozieres?” Jim joined in
eagerly. “Yair, that wus where the 23rd
took over from the 22nd and 24th.
Gripes, an’ we’d ’a’ cleaned Jerry out o’
most of his strongpoints that time only
the Seventh Brigade let us down.” “Like
Hades they did!” roared a voice from
the back. “I’d like to ’a’ seen you blokes
get through that barb wire!” All along
the line others chipped in, and the
officer’s voice was drowned in the argu-
ments. He waved his arms, bellowed,
then with a long-suffering sigh turned to
warn off a civilian who was approaching
across the parade ground. “Afternoon,”
murmured the visitor politely, * “Could
you tell me how to go about joining this
V.D.C. ? I’m not so young, but I’ve had
experience. , Y’ see, I was in the Boer
War.” “Y’ were, eh?” The officer
grabbed his shoulder and hastily turned
him face about, saying “You go along
and forget it. This V.D.C.’s got two
blanky wars on its hands already!”
* H= *
“Pec”: Our N.S.W. North Coast farm
foxy was noted for his digging ability.
Yarning with a mate over the fence one
day I pointed at a rabbit’s burrow in a
near-by hill and said “Dig.” In about
ten seconds all you could see of the
hound was his tail. We watched him
for a while and then resumed talking.
About ten minutes later we heard a com-
motion. Looking up, we saw the hound
charging down the slope with an old
goanna perched on his back. He
vanished into some near-by lantana, the
go. still-with the spurs well in. Foxy,
minus the go., turned up at the home-
stead several hours later looking slightly
the worse for wear. Thereafter he
wouldn’t even bury a bone.
* * * H=
“Solitude”: Within reasonable limits
animals learn to know the climate of
their particular locality, and could often
give the chaps at the weather bureau a
few points. Disliking extremes of heat
and cold, they sometimes show fine
judgment in protecting themselves. Took
over a bunch of low-country cattle one
time and shoved them on to the tops
with a big mob of old-timers. For
several months the herd fed contentedly
enough, then there were signs of a grow-
ing restlessness. Finally the day came
when they decided they must shift'camp.
How that grey day was different from
many other such days I couldn’t see, but
for miles the bush echoed the bellowing
as from all directions those old weather
prophets began their exodus to the lower
slopes. Next evening the weather broke,
and it wasn’t long before the tops were
under a foot of snow. A tour of inspec-
tion showed the hunched and miserable
newcomers in sole possession of the
plain.
r * * * *
Will Lawson: The Waterwitch (B.
20/10/’43) was one of the best-known
and oldest of Hobart’s whaleships. Her
first appearance in Sydney was recorded
in a newspaper par. saying her articles
were lying at Raphael’s Shipping Office in
Raphael-place to sign on a crew to get
whales and take a cargo of oil to Lon-
don, English wages being paid. On this
voyage she sailed out of Sydney under
the flag of McDonald, Smith and Co.,
with Charles Smith as master. Later,
Bobby Towns, who owned many whaling-
ships, bought her and converted her into
a barque, raising her freeboard at the
same time. Captain John Scott McArthur,
of Hobart, bought her for £l3OO in 1860
and she sailed on her first cruise that
year, returning with 30 tons of oil, worth
£9O a ton. Then Captain Harrison had
her for 16 years, and after him came
John (“Happy”) McGrath, William
Folder and George Attwell, who got the
famous whale Solander Bill when he was
jnate in another ship, For years this
whale had defied capture, smashing
dozens of boats. In the interval of these
commands, the barque was bought by
Alec McGregor for £l9OO.
* * * *
“Mat’s Mate”: The Adelaide-Pinnaroo
train was tearing along at 15 m.p.h., with
Mat and me jammed with about 10 others
in a dog-box carriage on the end of a
string of trucks. We had no right to be
there, being without tickets, but in those
“Come, come, gentlemen—surely you've got more than ONE nail!”
days if you managed to get aboard at
Adelaide they simply locked the com-
partment and you stayed there till you
wanted to leave. All through the long,
burning, dusty day 4 we sweated and suf-
fered with the other passengers, and as
night and Pinnaroo approached Mat
began Watching the mileposts, our inten-
tion being to drop off a bit short of the
Mallee capital and complete the journey
per boot. The time came, we threw
our swags out, then I climbed through
the window and dropped. As I gathered
the knots Mat joined me. Then we
gaped as the train stopped and started
backing towards us, heads craning out of
the carriage. Came the guard. “What’s
the game?” he roared. “Jumpin’ out o’
the train like that! By gosh, it’s just as
well somebody pulled the cord!” We
looked sheepish. “Well,” said Mat, “y’
see, mate, we got no tickets.” The guard
glared. “That’s no reason t’ go jumpin’
out,” he snorted. “If somebody hadn’t
pulled the cord the whole flamin’ lot
would ha’ jumped out. It’s hard enough
to make ’em stay in the thing as it is.”
And he bundled us back.
* * * *
“Zake”: McKay, from along the
gully, had come over to see about buying
a buggy horse Dad had for sale. He’d
given it the once-over and said he’d like
to see how it went in a sulky. Dad got
young Horace, his nephew from the city
on a holiday, to put the horse in the
sulky, saying he could go with the pro-
spective buyer along the road for a trial
spin. McKay took the reins, and once
outside the road gate put the horse into
a fast trot for about half a mile. Then he
stopped, got down and walked carefully
around the horse, listening intently. Then
he shook his head. “I thought as much,”
he said aloud. “He interferes. You
could probably hear him from there” —
looking up at Horace. Horace looked
“'E ses'e hopes ’e ain't in the way, but ’ e thinks e's' over a rich leader.”
blank for a second, then nodded agree-
ment. “Yair,” he said with a shrewd
look. “You’re wise, mister. I never
buy a horse that can’t mind his own
business!”
* * * *
“Pat Ater”: Some Bulletin argu-
ments on the value and virtues of bush-
men-naturalists’ observations were re-
called recently when an old-timer of the
Blue Mountains (N.S.W.) gullies offered
to lead me to a lyrebird’s nest.
We could hear the male Menura at
times on his playing ground giving a
distant concert performance, but the nest
was apparently well concealed. No
tracks of claws were there to show the
way. The old-timer, a keen bird-lover,
took me up along the little creek and
over the many pellucid shallow pools.
He paused at one of these, examining
some small objects on the bottom —and
seemed satisfied. We broke off at a
tangent from there, and up the banks
and on a shelf between sandstone ledges
found the big, untidy, stick-encircled nest.
A baby Menura, vigorous, healthy and
full of piping screams, was there, and
his lusty calls soon brought the fepiale
parent but not the male. My friend
explained that the mother bird picks up
all the droppings of its chick from the
vicinity of the nest to deposit them in a
watercourse near by—as a means of de-
ceiving enemies. Only a bushman’s keen
observation and the naturalist’s enthusi-
asm could have noted and recorded such
details.
* * * *
“Fento”: Knee-haltering (B. 29 /9 / ’43)
is also an effective method of teaching a
horse in a sulky to stand until the pas-
sengers and driver are seated. A horse
I once had was off at a trot as soon as
he felt a weight on the step. I could
hop aboard nimbly enough, but Mum
was not so sprightly. So I harnessed
him up, knee-haltered him tightly and
throughout one day climbed in and out
of the sulky. After a while he gave up
trying to start, and thereafter he stood
until given the word to move. I’ve also
successfully used the knee-halter to
quieten cranky horses who kick while
being harnessed.
H= * * *
“Betcha”: “The whole secret of this
stock-raising,” announced the district’s
newcomer expansively, “is feed. It’s a
wonder to me you old hands haven’t
woke up to that by now and sown your
whole areas with clover.” I rolled a
smoke as he rambled on. “Now take
that place of mine. When I bought that
river paddock last year first thing I did
was rip her up and sow the lot down in
clover. Talk about feed! She’s about
eight inches high now and flourishing
like mad. Then last week I bought up
a good bunch o’ store cattle, turned ’em
in on the stuff, and in no time they’ll be
fat and I’ll double on their turnover.”
“Got ’em on that feed now?” I asked,
turning up my collar against another
rain skit. “ ’Course,” he answered.
“Where else could I put ’em! Gripes, I
bet you’ll hardly know those beasts
soon.” There was a clopping of hoofs
as Kelly cantered up. “Hey, • Bob,” he
yelled to the newcomer, “some goat must
have left the gate o’ your clover pad-
docks open. All y’r cattle got in.” The
newcomer grinned sardonically. “And
what’s wrong with that?” was his con-
descending challenge, “Well, they’re
blown, that’s all,” explained Kelly.
“When I come past just now 13 of ’em
was dead and nine more due t’ kick the
bucket any minute.”
* !jt H= *
“Esk D.”; In normal seasons the
watercourse held the title of creek by
reason of the big reserve of water kept
back by a series of weirs. The deep holes
in the bends yielded nice cod, always in
good condition, for the fringes of water-
lilies were alive with aquatic insects and
the favorite yabby, and a bag of mussels
could be dredged from the mud floor in
a few minutes. Then came the inevitable
dry summer. The creek became a seam
of baking mud before a chain of pumps
was installed at the weirs and the life-
blood —and infant the Murray
flowed in. Two years later the fishing
started to come back, and cod to six or
eight pounds were taken. But the old
hands insist that they must have been
brought in by the subsequent flooding of
a river some 30 miles up. Fish don’t
grow that fast, they claim. But I’m not
so sure.
* * * *
“L.A.C.”; Heredity v. environment
may present a nice subject for discussion
when applied to human beings, but there
is no argument in the case of animals.
Part of my puppyhood was spent in the
edifying society of three other pups, a
spaniel, a sheep and a cattle. Their
varied interests, boredoms, joys and
sorrows were a source of wonder and
puzzlement to me. The poultry on the
place roamed free in noisy contentment.
To the spaniel they were white objects
on incredibly thin legs, devoid of interest,
and, after a violent encounter with a hen,
to be avoided if accompanied by smaller
white objects. The cattle-pup feigned
indifference and maintained an armed
neutrality, being not above trying out
sharp little teeth if the opposition showed
panic. To the sheep-pup they were a
constant entertainment, to be rounded
up, driven, yarded and held to the best
of his stumpy-legged ability. Apart from
the primary function of gulping food
their three mouths were regarded by their
owners as being for three distinct pur-
poses. Spaniel’s was a one-pup-power
crane for carrying a stick, ball, sock or
what-have-you; Cattle’s for biting;
Sheep’s for barking. Spaniel’s happiest
hours were spent in the water, chugging
determinedly to shore with a thrown
stick ; Cattle liked a shallow puddle to
cool-off in, but nothing more ; Sheep was
mildly interested, with one eye on the
stick and the other on the beloved fowls.
In short, each followed the instinctive
urge of his breeding and did not depart
far from it despite my exasperated
attempts at tuition, for later on Spaniel
fetched and carried indefatigably, Cattle
joyed in a low-running, silent nip at the
milker’s heels, and Sheep graduated easily
from poultry to jumbucks.
* * * *
“Anthropo”: “Zake’s” yarn about
sft. 3in. Matthews being scared of his
hefty wife (B. 22/9/’43) doesn’t square
with my experience of life. I have met
any number of cock-sparrow blokes mar-
ried to 14-stoners, but never yet have I
seen the male scared of his much better
half. On the other hand, I have seen
numbers of big hefty fellows coupled with
little wrens of women and I’ve known
more than one of them dead scared to
go home when a bit sprung. Big women
are usually too easygoing to indulge in
stoush with their minute husbands ; while
little wives are apt to have waspish
tongues that get their big husbands half-
paralysed without their thinking of physi-
cal violence. And the peculiar attraction
of the wisp of a male to the huge female
extends to the blacks. The smallest buck
I ever struck had as his consort the hefti-
est lubra. She was evidently a woman’s-
righter also, for she had him loaded with
the family belongings while she strode
along with the spears. There were no
visible offspring, so he was spared that
final indignity.
* * * * ,
“Bez”: Jacky had tagged on to the
railway construction camp and did odd
jobs. One off day he went on a walkabout
and shopping expedition to the town.
At sundown a very tired abo. limped
home along the track. He had bought
and was wearing a pair of thin white
cotton pants and a pair of heavy blucher
*boots shod with heel plates and studded
with huge hobnails. Asked why he was
limping so badly Jacky answered “Gripes,
boss, these blasted new pants have made
me feet tired.”


Australian, Mercantile, Land & Finance
Company, Limited
(INCORPORATED IN ENGLAND IN 1863)
WOOL, FAT STOCK, STORE AND STUD STOCK,
PRODUCE AND PROPERTY SALESMEN
General Manager for Australia; R. SINCLAIR SMITH. #
ADVANCES MADE ON GRAZING PROPERTIES, ON STOCK, AND ON
CONSIGNMENTS OF WOOL, SKINS, HIDES, TALLOW, ETC.
LICENSED AUCTIONEERS, STOCK AND STATION AGENTS.
SYDNEY OFFICE: A. M. MURDOCH, Manager.
ALSO AT MELBOURNE, BRISBANE, NEWCASTLE, WAGGA, HENTY, HAY, MOREE,
TOWNSVILLE, CHARLEVILLE, BUENOS AIRES, LONDON.
GENERAL AGENTS IN NEW SOUTH WALES FOR NORTHERN ASSURANCE CO.. LTD
FOURTH LIBERTY LOAN
£125,000,000
BACK THE ATTACK
• • 9
SPACE WITH COMPLIMENTS
SAUCE
THE ECONOMY SAUCE
FOR MINERAL MIXTURES AND LICKS
FOR BONE-CHEWING CATTLE
ZTji/i-CoJi'
Sterilised
BONE FLOUR
TO REMEDY PHOSPHORUS DEFICIENCY
IN PASTURES AND FODDERS
Tri-cal-os Bone Flour is purely a bone product without admixture
of any other substance. It contains a guaranteed minimum of
32.5 per cent, phosphoric acid and 40 per cent. lime.
All particulars from:—
DAVIS GELATINE, G.P.O. BOX 35835, SYDNEY.
G.P.O. Box 4058, Melbourne. G.P.O. Box 758 K, Brisbane.
G.P.O. Box 7l2Fj Adelaide. G.P.O. Box 588, Perth.
OUlCKand DEADLY
- KILL THOSE RABBITS
CYanogaS
SAVE
MANPOWER
“IT’S THE GAS THAT KILLS THEM”
CYANOGAS quickly, cheaply, cleanly and safely destroys rabbits and all
vermin. Economical, easy to use. No waste. PROTECTS YOUR SHEEP.
Obtainable from
all Storekeepers
throughout Australia.
BUZACOTT-WOLSELEY PTY.,LTD.,
7-11 MARKET STREET, SYDNEY.
THE MAN ON
THE LAND
"DON'T WORRY, I'M SENDING IT TO
GRAZCOS."
Dusty Backs.
“Jfumbuck”: “Murrawong” is right
(B. 13 /10/’43) about classing and skirt-
ing of dusty wools. Classing a large shed
during a drought, when the fleeces con-
tained so much dust thJt the shearing
board resembled a small duststorm, the
owner insisted that I keep certain lines
of bought sheep apart—a needless in-
struction—but refused to take out the
back wool, though repeatedly warned
that the dust in the backs would permeate
each bale of fleece wool.
Some of the bought sheep were from
black-soil country and some from “blue”
plains. I saw the wool opened up, and
so well had the red dust permeated that
only from bale numbers could the owner
tell which wool came from the various
lines of bought sheep.
Most of those fleece lines were passed
in owing to not reaching the owner’s
idea of values, but when eventually the
wool was sold privately and at much less
than he expected the owner realised his
mistake.
When back wool is very dusty it’s the
most payable of all wools to have
scoured. This has been proved times
without number.
“Steve”; Under the appraisement
scheme, which looks like becoming a
permanency, no small grower should
attempt to class his clip. At this time of
labor shortage is it not far easier to put
the rolled fleeces straight into the packs?
This saves rehandling, and the fleeces
are not so liable to fall apart. It would
eliminate one shed hand and a better
price would be got for the bulk-classed
wool.
Many small growers who fancy them-
selves as woolclassers scorn any sugges-
tion to send their wool to the stores un-
classed, but the average farmer handles
wool only for a few days once a year,
and if confronted with a lengthy 64’s and
a shorter 60’s would be confused by the
two fleeces. The writer had some train-
ing at Bradford Technical Wool College,
but would not think of breaking up his
own small clip into a number of classes.
Poultry Rations.
“Myrrhee”: A variety of whole grains
and free-choice meatmeal proved better
than the orthodox bran, pollard and
meatmeal mash and mixed whole grains
in tests at Werribee Research Farm
(Vic.). Over a twelvemonth birds fed
the first-mentioned ration averaged 182
eggs for 97.61 b. food against 181 eggs
and 100.81 b. food.
Five hundred Australorps and White
Leghorns hatched in September, 1941,
were used and divided into 10 pens of
50 birds each, intensively housed —about
4 sq. ft. of floor space per bird. All grain
mixtures consisted of four parts wheat,
one part oats, one part barley, one part
maize (by weight). The bran and pollard
mash was made up of 301 b. bran, 601 b.
pollard and 101 b. meatmeal. All birds
had green feed daily.
Summarising, W. O. Pederick and W.
G. Clark, assistant poultry experts, said
the tests showed that whole grains with
meatmeal to balance the ration can pro-
duce excellent results. The yield from
pens fed crushed and whole grain, with
a limited amount of meatmeal, however,
were not as satisfactory pens fed
either mash or whole mixed grains.
The Market Garden.
“H.C.”; The site should be on level
land which is easily and economically
worked. A gentle slope with a northerly
or north-easterly aspect is good ; good
natural drainage and such a position en-
sure the land warming up quickly in
spring. Avoid steep grades; water runs
off them quickly, the soil dries rapidly,
erosion is likely, machinery is hard to
work, production costs are higher.
Drainage must be good. Sandy soils
produce better root crops, drain quickly,
warm earlier in the spring, sowing and
planting can be started sooner and con-
tinued later, ploughing is easier, the
earth doesn’t set. They need irrigation,
heavier dressings of organic and green
manure and more care in selection of
fertilisers.
Swampy and peaty soils are rich in
organic matter, but n £ ed lime. They
produce good crops of all vegetables—
onions and celery in particular. Silty
loam can be used for main and late
crops. Don’t try heavy clay soils.
Climatic advantages should be capi-
talised. A cool climate helps you place
late-maturing vegetables—such as the
brassica family—on the market when
harvesting in warmer districts is finished.
In cooler areas pests are not so com-
mon. Any market garden needs some
form of irrigation. Application of one
inch of water to one acre of land runs
away with 27,000 gallons of water.
Several such waterings are required in a
growing season. Windbreaks not only
protect fine soil but retain moisture and
increase production.
Johnson Grass.
“J.G.D.”: That “good two-horse
plough” (B. 13/10/’43) would be worse
than useless for killing it in deep black
soil here on the Darling Downs, where
ploughing spreads the pest; a root picked
up by the plough will grow where it’s
dropped if conditions are favorable.
Where there are small patches in a
paddock wise farmers avoid running the
plough through them, and in wheat lands
the header man carries a few empty bags'
to throw out as markers on the patches
that he sees. The roots go down 3ft.
and more,, and to get them out we
use the pick, fork and shovel, digging a
deep trench beside the patch, then work-
ing a vertical face through it, picking out
every bit of root, bagging it and, when
dry, burning it. Effective but toilsome.
Covering a patch with old sheets of
hon does the trick ; others recommend
chipping off the green shoots as they
appear ; but our favorite method is spray-
ing in January (earlier is waste) with one
gallon of water to one pound of sodium
chlorate (now frozen) and a little soap
powder (added after the chlorate is dis-
solved). Spray every three or four weeks
until no more green shoots appear. Usu-
ally two or three sprayings are enough,
but we had one patch which had to be
treated again the following summer. The
mixture is not dangerous as a poison, but
clothes or other material wet with the
solution and allowed to dry are as in-
flammable as guncotton.
A good strike of lucerne on a badly-
infested paddock will kill the pest in a
couple of years. The seed cannot be
graded out of Sudan grass-seed. Find
a grower who has proved that he pro-
duces clean seed and buy all your Sudan
seed from him.
Poisoning Trees.
“N.K.”: Nobody bothers with the
messy method of boiling arsenic and
soda (B. 6/10/’43). Arsenic pentoxide
is the killing agent now in use, and is
effective. It dissolves in cold wafer, and
about two pounds to the gallon will kill
trees; one pound to the gallon for spray-
ing will kill almost any vegetation. It is
harmless to handle with ordinary care,
only don’t let the stuff stay on your
fingernails, as it will eat them away if
left on for long.
This material was introduced into
Queensland 20 years ago for killing
prickly-pear, and sold readily at the re-
tail price of 2s. 6d. per pound. One of
the first actions of the Prickly-pear Com-
mission was to import a quantity and
make it available to owners of prickly-
pear land at 6d. per lb. Since the prac-
tical extermination of pear by Cacto-
blastis, pentoxide has been available for
destruction of noxious weeds and timber.
Directions regarding frilling, etc. (B.
6/10/’43), are all right, but if you don’t
want a forest of suckers don’t attempt to
ring or poison while the sap is down. Do
it while the sap is up and then the poison
will be carried down to the roots, with
a satisfactory kill. If stock are grazing
m the paddock include a small quantity
of carbolic ip the mixture. Cattle will
give anything that smells of carbolic a
wide berth. Any gasworks will sell the
crude carbolic.
For killing small trees chop a slanting
cut in each side of the trunk and pour
in the mixture. Done while the sap fe
*up it gives an 80 p.c. kill.
Lucerne in Queensland.
“Sarina”: C.S.I.R. experts rf com-
mend it for dairymen to supply pfotein-
rich cattle feed during late winflbr and
early spring months. It will grow In most
soils. There are 20-year-old lucerne
paddocks in Queensland still yielding
heavily. Clean, green leafy com-
mands the best prices. Lucent* is a
splendid investment wherever pigs are
pastured.
The land must be fertile and well pre-
pared. Plough deeply and make a fine
seedbed. If drilling, sow from 51b.
to 101 b. of seed to the acre; i£ broad-
casting, allow from 121 b. to 201 b. Poor
land requires less seed. Superphosphate
goes well with the seed ; before rationing
from lewt. to 3cwt. to the acre
was reckoned an adequate dose. After
seeding, level the land to assist germina-
tion by running a roller over it.
Manuring and light cultivation with a
scarifier help a lucerne patch along.
When it is in its first stages, mow lightly.
Pigs will ruin a young crop. Experts
hold that the best green feed comes from
flowering lucerne.
Hints for the Farm.'
“Canbelego”; Fungi causing root-,
stalk- and ear-rot disease in maize per-
sist from season to season on old stalks
and harvest debris. Destroy by cutting,
raking and burning the trash as soon as
possible after harvesting. Check cut-
worms and black beetle by early plough-
ing and maintenance of a clean fallow.
“Jindivick”: When lifting the spuds
select the best for seed. Mark out the
strongest and healthiest plants and put
them aside when digging. Choose only
unblemished tubers, evenly shaped and
possessed of four or five eyes. Smallish
round seed is preferable to larger seed,
since cutting is not then necessary and
time is saved when planting. The pota-
toes should be well dried out after dig-
ging arid may be stored in a shed or on
boards or straw under trees that provide
shelter. Cover with bags to keep off
weather ; pick over occasionally to ensure
that no wet or rotting tubers spoil the
others. Remove any that indicate by
weak and spindly shoots that the stock
is run out.
“L.C.”: Don’t let paddy-lucerne in
among the pastures It will smother most
grasses. It may be drought-resistant,
eaten by stock and a heavy yielder, but
it’s fibrous in quality and low in nutri-
tion. Only hard work will get it out.
“Hux”: To waterproof oilskins boil
together Iqt. boiled linseed oil, loz. soft
soap and loz. beeswax in a double
boiler for two hours. Set aside and strain
through muslin when lukewarm. Lay
the coat on a table and apply the mixture
with a brush as in painting. Dry
thoroughly before giving a second coat.
For Sheepowners.
Copies are still available of A Hand-
book of Wool-classing and Shed Manage-
ment, J. I. Hardie’s useful contribution to
sheep husbandry. There is also a chap-
ter on shearing-machine exporting. Sup-
plies are limited; order from The
Bulletin —3s. 6d. post free.


A
. ■ ai p^x
THE GREATEST AIR
IN HISTORY
IS OM
w
Australia's keen-eyed, highly-skilled airmen, flying
mighty bombers and swift, deadly fighters are play-
ing an inspiring part in the greatest air offensive in
history. Thousands more young men are still wanted
as Air Crew personnel. No matter what your present
occupation may be, apply NOW to FLY in the RAAF.
For training as PILOTS, NAVIGATORS and WIRELESS
OPERATOR-AIR GUNNERS, age limit 18 to 32 years.
RAAF
AIR CREWS
WANTED NOW
Apply personally or by letter to your nearest R.A.A.F*
Recruiting Centre or local 'R.A.A.F. Committee.
RAAF 2-2$
... is wholly engaged in the
manufacture of Wireless and other equip-
ment for the Navy, Army, Air Force and the
Merchant Navy. When Victory is ours, the
Fisk Radiola will again be available through-
out Australia . . . Until then, youi* local
Radiola Distributor will gladly service your
present Radiola.
The FISK RADIOLA
AUSTRALIA'S FINEST BROADCAST RECEIVER
AMALGAMATED WIRELESS (A/SIA) LTD.
Aus fra Ha's N ail anal W irel ess Organisation
UNCABLED ADDITIONS
Plenty in Canada.
[This extract from John O’Donnell’s column
in N.Y. “Daily News” makes curious reading
in the light of Australia’s shortages, including
the coming 2|lb. per week meat ration, which
was described as “higher than Canada’s.”
Even the liquor arrangements, which Americans
found unsatisfactory, will seem good to most
Australians.]
Washington reporters who covered the
Roosevelt-Churchill conference in Quebec
returned to Washington spinning yarns
that aroused the jealous resentment of
the boys who stayed this side of the
border.
We envy but don’t resent the un-
rationed English-made shoes that they
bought there at $7.50 a pair or the leather
moccasin-type slippers turned out by the
Indians of the North Country for $1 and
$2 a pair. But their tales of eating, in
Canada, told with much smacking of lips
in this city of slim pickings, have fallen
on amazed ears.
Reports colleague Fred Pasley, who is
no mean trencherman and now greets
every capital bill of fare with a scowl:
“You can sink your teeth in the finest
steak you have ever tasted, any time you
wish, for 75 cents. And along with the
75-cent steak wilt come not only soup
and vegetables but a tasty dessert. If
you prefer fish, you can pick anything
from a Gaspe salmon to bass or moun-
tain trout.
“But say you desire to scale the very
pinnacle of the gastronomic Matterhorn
then try the $1.5 French dinner in
Quebec’s top eating place, the Old Home-
stead.
“Besides a smacking T-bone, the gargon
also serves you every delectable item
from hors d’oeuvres to petits fours. The
same meal in Washington or New York
City would cost at least $3, exclusive of
cover charge or the hat-check racket.
They allow neither in Quebec.”
On the liquor question in Canada, and
here we had some expert opinion, the
American reporters said the situation was
a lesson and a warning to our own Fed-
eral authorities charged with its control.
la Quebec, a province outstanding for
orderly procedure and law observance,
bootlegging is coming into its own owing
to the provincial Government’s methods
G f regulation
ritfypns otd MTnwpH hut 4007 of Scotch
citizens are allowed but 4UOZ. of
whisky per monthfMjourbons and ryes
are not in demand — at the Government
s t ore s. Aside from that the setup is:
(1) Taverns are allowed to sell only
beers and light wines .
(2 ) Restaurants are permitted to sell
cockta ils and hard liquors with meals,
Hotels are allowed to serve hard liquor
in the rooms t 0 guests .
Inasmuch as Quebec’s average citizen
can - t afford t 0 ren t a hotel room every
The British and American armies
operating in the Mediterranean area
(I) forced the unconditional sur-
render of Italy, (2) broke /he Rome-
Berlin Axis, (5) destroyed Fascism
in the land of its origin, ( 4 ) de-
prived Germany of all Italy’s indus-
trial production, (5) took the entire
Italian Army out of the war, except
to the extent that it fights with ps
and not against us, and (6) forced
Germany to shift into France, into
the Balkans and even into Italy
itself enough divisions to take the
place of the retiring Italians. At
this point it will be interesting to
see whether some American arm-
chair strategists will still demand
that we “open a second front.” —
N.f. “Times.”
time he wants a drink, he either (a) goes
to a restaurant and orders a “sandwich,”
or (b) he buys a brand of liquor either
brewed in the woods or smuggled across
the American border that would fell
p au l Bunyan’s blue ox.
"Let Them Have It."
( From a report by N.Y. “Times” London
correspondent .)
At dusk the air was heavy with the
throbbing of hundreds of motors. The
people in London’s streets looked up as
the Royal Air Force went over toward
Germany. Now and again tjje lights of a
big bomber winked out three Mots and a
dash —“V” for victory.
“Good luck to them,” said an elderly
man. “Aye,” said a Scots policeman.
“We’ve had it; now let them have it.”
People of this city have hardened their
hearts toward enemy civilians. Un-
doubtedly, many dislike the heavy on-
slaughts against Berlin and other German
communities. But the great mass of men
and women, who fought the blitz with
sand and water and cheerfulness, get
solid satisfaction now from the roar of
the bombers going out. Therp are too
many empty places in too many homes
to allow them to forget.
In many cases the women are more
vehement than the men. A shop
stewardess in a factory employing 4000
girls failed to find one who expressed pity
about the bombing of German cities.
U.S. Republican Aims.
[Meeting at Mackinac Island in September,
the U.S. Republican Post-war Advisory Com-
mittee adopted a report which marked a further,
though not specific, moving away from the
party’s traditional “isolationism.” Leading
Republicans present included Governors Dewey
(who advocated continued “military alliance”
with Britain) and Bricker, both of whom have
been listed as prospective Republican Presiden-
tial candidates.]
We are fighting a desperate war, which
must be won • as speedily as possible.
When the war is ended we must partici-
pate in the making of the peace. This
puts upon the nation a triple responsi-
bility.
(a) We must preserve and protect all
our own national interests.
(h) We must aid in restoring order and
decent living in a distressed world.
(c) We must do our full share in a
programme for permanent peace among
nations.
At this time a detailed programme for
the accomplishment of these great objec-
tives will be impossible, and specific com-
mitments of this council of the Republi-
can party, or by the nation, would be un-
wise. We cannot know now what situa-
tion may obtain at the war’s end. But
a specific programme must be devolved
in the months to come, as events and
relations unfold.
Therefore we consider it to be our duty
at the beginning of our work as an ad-
visory council of the Republican party
to declare our approval of the following:
1. Prosecution of the war by a united
nation to conclusive victorf over all our
enemies, including
(a) Disarmament and disorganisation
of the armed forces of the Axis.
( h) Disqualification of the Axis to
construct facilities for the manufacture
of the implements of war.
(c) Permanent maintenance of trained
and well-equipped armed forces at
home.
2. Responsible participation by the
United States in post-war co-operative
organisation among sovereign nations to
prevent military aggression and to attain
permanent peace with organised justice in
a free world.
Displaced Millions.
(Condensed from a “Christian Science Monitor”
article by E. Berg Holt.)
Among Europeans, excluding Russians,
for whom estimates are unavailable, the
Poles head the tragic procession of dis-
placed persons with a terrible total of
more than 9,000,000, more than a quarter
of the pre-war population. Of these,
more than 5,000,000 (Jews included) have
been forcibly removed from their homes
to other parts of their own country so
that the areas incorporated in Reich
territory can be made 100 per. cent. Ger-
man. Two and a half millions more are
in Germany. Of the remainder, some are
in the U.S.S.R., some in Polish forces in
the Middle and Near East and England,
and some, nearly all women .and children,
in Kenya Colony.
Next to the Poles come the French,
who number about 3.500,000. About
1,500,000 of these are still in their own
country and will probably be able to get


z ..^r=r-*-
17,500
A
m
pr~r r~l
■D
TTTO^i
i
M.,| ?
fftff;
BOMBER PARTS
EVERY DAY . . .
At a General Motors-Holden’s
factory a section was built,
equipped, and manned for
the specific job of making
parts for Australian-built
bombers.
This section is in full and
continuous production
production which means
thousands of bomber parts
each day and every day.
The men and women over
1,800 of them producing
these parts must get a
lot of satisfaction from the
knowledge that what they’re
doing is helping to place
efficient equipment in the
hands of the men of the
Fighting Services.
That satisfaction is shared by everybody
associated with this company’s war-time
activities, which are almost entirely directed
to the support of the War Eifort.
Victory is our Business!
GENERAL MOTORS - HOLDEN’S LTD.
Brisbane - Sydney - Melbourne - Adelaide - Perth
Biiy War Savings Certificates and Bonds
C 771-22
thf
UNITED
INSURANCE COMPANY LTD.
HEAD OFFICE : GEORGE AND HUNTER
STREETS, SYDNEY
An Australian Institution.
Established 1862.
DIRECTORS;
E. R. Knox (Chairman), Sir Thomas
Buckland, F. W. Hixson, Orwell
Phillips, G. F. Hughes, Robert Vicars.
Fire. Marine and Accident
Insurances of Every
Description
A. O. Dawson,
General Manager.
T. C. Reynolds,
Asst. Gen. Manager.
EYE LOTION
For Inflamed Eyes and Eyelids... Sold Everywhere
H.Rose&Co.,Pty..Ltd.. King Street. Sydney.
BRANBALERS
re
C.*
at*
Every point
guaranteed—■
do not experiment with imitations.
a BBABDAOBK * GO, 144. BIBBXHOHi.IL EKO
mss
1
Sv
ZIZ 10 } oz
ill “J 01
they never vary
Carreras Ltd.—ls 4 Years’ Reputation for Quality
.. ■ ;
Save - or Slave. Put
all you've got into £lO
National Savings Bonds.
5063 B
back home unassisted. But there are at
least 1,500,000 in Germany, over
1.000. being prisoners of war.
Dutch dispatriates number more than
1.500.000. About two-thirds of this total
are stated to be in “unspecified foreign
countries.” At least 300,000 are working
against their will in Germany.
The Czechoslovak total is upward of
1.275.000, of whom nearly 500,000 are
working in Germany and another 300,000
have been expatriated to that country for
unspecified reasons. At least 150,000
Czechs, most of them Jews, have been de-
ported, many of them to Poland.
The figure for Belgium and Luxemburg
is in round numbers 800,000, the majority
being in Germany, though there are
stated to be nearly 100,000 in Poland.
The Yugoslav total is given as 650,000,
but this figure apparently leaves out the
Slovenes, of whom about 500,000 are
stated to have been driven from their
homes when their country was parcelled
out among Germany, Italy and Hungary.
There are over 500,000 Yugoslavs in
Germany, 200,000 being workers (mostly
conscripts) and 130,000 prisoners of war.
About 85,000 of the German minority in
Yugoslavia are have been moved
to Germany,
The last of the martyred European
countries is Greece, whose greatest
tragedy has been famine rather than
deportation. Greece has successfully
sabotaged the call-up of workers to go to
the Reich, and so far as is known only
some 12,000 Greek workers are in Ger-
many. The figure of the Greeks who
will await their opportunity to go home,
apart from those in the armed forces of
the Allies, is expected to be about
150,000.
Axis prisoners, including those taken at
Stalingrad and in Tunisia, already num-
ber close on 1,000,000. There are also
large numbers of Axis civilians outside
their own countries. At least 1,000,000
Germans (many of them members of
German communities in Balkan and
Central European countries) have been
settled in annexed parts of Poland. There
are probably not less than 500,000 Ger-
man evacuees and officials and their
families in France, mapy of the former
sent there to escape bombing. Others
have gone to Norway, Czechoslovakia
and elsewhere for the same reason.
Italy has sent at least 300,000 workers
to the Reich ; Rumania, Hungary and
Bulgaria among them have probably sent
100,000 more. Another 50,000 are be-
lieved to have gone from Denmark.
Even if, as is probable, the numbers
are seriously depleted during the chaos
which is inevitable when the brutal arm
of Axis oppression begins to give way,
there must remain a vast and pathetic
concourse of men, women and children
eagerly waiting arrangements to be made
for them to return to their homes, which
in a majority of cases will have ceased to
exist or which, if they are still standing,
will often be bare shells without furni-
ture, without food, without farm imple-
ments, seeds and animals; without raw
materials for factories, without oppor-
tunity for work.
Dragnet Digest.
(Condensed from various acknowledged sources .)
The British met their ordeal at the beginning
of the war; the Germans are meeting theirs at
the end, and it makes a profound difference.
The British were sustained by the thought that
one day they would have the strength to pay
back every savagery visited upon them; for
the Germans there is no such hope. The
British knew that the forces of civilisation were
gathering to repel the monstrous assault which
had been made upon them; the Germans have
forfeited the support of all save slaves and syco-
phants.—N.Y. “Herald Tribune’’
* * * *
Used as a factor in the strategy of victory—
not the sole factor, but a very important one —
strategic bombardment will hasten victory. But
its ill effects must be faced as well as its good;
it has ravaged cities and destroyed monuments
rich in the history of mankind; it is creating
national bitterness in Britain, Germany and
other countries subjected to the trial by bombs,
which will long outlast the war and will leave
scars upon our civilisation for years to come.—
Hanson W. Baldwin; N.Y. “TimesX
* * * *
Some of the post-war order utterances of
Vice-President Wallace, with their emphasis on
social and economic elysium, could be set to the
music of familiar hymns of celestial beatitude.
— N.Y. “Herald Tribune” columnist.
* * * *
Many Arabs are now willing to accept
Britain’s policy, by which further Jewish mass
immigration will cease. If Britain revises this
policy in accordance with Zionist aspirations
the Arabs would- undoubtedly bring to bear a
united force. — Jerusalem correspondent N.Y.
“Times.”
* * * *
Out of the 15,000 men in a U.S. combat
division, General Marshall remarks in his
biennial report, 650 are employed in the pre-
paration of food, another 700 in administrative
duties concerning food and supplies, 1500 in
providing transportation and another 1500 in
communications, 600 in medical services, 450
on repair and maintenance of equipment and
1600 in various other specialised services.
There remain only 8000 men, or not much more
than half the total, whose “principal job is at
the fighting front.” — N.Y. “Herald Tribune.”
* * * *
A survey of London schoolchildren shows
that youngsters between the ages of five and
seven have forgotten or have never known
many of the attributes of peace-time living.
When questioned about such things as street
lights and bananas, they stared suspiciously and
indicated plainly that they did not believe such
things existed. One little boy, shown a row of
street lights and asked what they were for,
shrugged his shoulders in puzzlement. Children
could not remember seeing lighted shop-
windows or electric signs and thought that the
barrage balloons over London had always been
there. Bananas, grapefruit, tangerines and
lemons were unknown to the majority. One boy
had seen a lemon in a Kew Gardens hothouse
and a little girl vaguely remembered having had
a grapefruit years ago. The children accept
food and clothes rationing as normal; only
one or two could remember buying candy with-
out coupons. When one teacher brought a
seashell to school and asked her pupils to name
it, none of them could do it. “It’s a shell,”
she explained finally. “That’s no shell,” a
little boy replied heatedly. “Shells come out
of guns.”-— N.Y. “Times” London correspon-
dent.
* * * *
Recently released figures on deliveries to
Russia justify the guess that the Allies are now
sending to her through the southern route alone
about 200,000 tons of vital goods around
500 tanks and combat ’planes monthly. Tank
deliveries include heavy Churchills and America’s
sturdy M4’s, while the ’planes are of the latest
types and in balanced force. “The Russians
here have assured us,” I was told in Teheran
recently, “that every ’plane we send them is in
operation in combat areas within 48 hours after
delivery.”— Edgar Snow; “Saturday Evening
Post.”
* * * *
Since the outbreak of war in 1937 there has
been no general crop failure in China. But a
few local famines, which were caused by
drought, floods and pestilence, have given a
ghastly demonstration of what happens when
the narrow dam that stands between the farmer’s
life and the farmer’s death suddenly caves in.
Those who have come out of the Honan and
Kwangtung famine districts tell weird, almost
incredible tales of people eating bark off trees,
people eating grass, people eating rats; of thou-
sands of persons dropping dead at the roadside,
of others going mad with hunger.— Ernest O.
Hauser; “Saturday Evening Post.”


RUPTURE
i NO PADS—NO SPRING*
ACTS
LIKE THE HR
The latest invention of Dr.
L. Barrere is the result of 40
years’ practice and improve-
raents. Stupendous success
of new method of control.
The NEO-BARRBRE acts
like the hand when placed
flat upon the orifice. You
[will at once without
effort and in all move-
ments hold the intes-
tine in its cavity.
Write To-day for
FREE LITERATURE.
BARRERE DISTRIBUTION CO.
r-t »r.’l FT-I7ABKTH ST.. SYDNEY.
'off'
e
and we're making
every effort to dis-
tribute them evenly.
Ask for "Mentmore"
2 Types
"SUPREME"
"DIPLOMA"
' vg -t- yf
, •«« »
TAKE CARE OF VOUR PEN
IT WILL LAST A LIFETIME
For Australia at War ■ ■ ■
Qy&
LATHES . . . CAPSTAN TURRET LATHES
SHAPING, MILLING and PLANING
MACHINES .... BORING MILLS
MACHINE-CUT GEARS for the Trade
*
MARS MACHINE TOOL Manfg. Co.
Pty. Ltd. Bridge Street, Valley, Brisbane
D^y
o
cc
OC
y o
\0
SPECIAL NOTICE
THE HYGEIA DISSOLVENATOR
APPROVED BY THE BOARD OF HEALTH.
Tlie manufacturers desire to notify the public that, all Government orders having
been overtaken, immediate delivery of private orders can be given. Ample supplies
of Hygeia Dissolvent and paper are assured.
This self-contained sanitary system gives the comfort and safety of sewerage to
homes in unsewered areas, no water sujiply being required.
It is not just a modified closet pan. Closet pans and sanitary rates are eliminated,
as well as the unpleasant conditions inherent in closet pans.
INSTAE YOURS BEFORE THE HOT WEATHER.
Any Handy Man Can Instal It. Write for Illustrated Pamphlet.
PRICE: Family Size, £l9/3/6 f.o.r. Sydney. Crating, 10/9.
HYGEIA SANITARY CO. PTY., LTD.,
36 Bridge St., Sydney. ’Phone: 81053. Obtainable direct or from all leading stores.
Queensland Pastoral Supplies, Ltd., Brisbane; Harris, S'carfe, Ltd., Adelaide; Victorian
Producers Co-op. Co., Ltd., Melbourne; B. P. Mclnerney and Co., Ltd., Perth.
■9^
mim
i
im
m
'm
I
, - >
, >' 4^/
A '
Are you shackling this man ?
Consider well, and face the question: Are you sending your
soldier boy into battle with his hands tied; are you denying him
the right of all free men to fight for his life and all he holds
dear and all YOU hold dear?
If you are withholding the weapons he needs, you are condemn-
ing him to fight machines with bare knuckles. That’s not cricket!
He needs arms, munitions, tanks, planes, transport and equipment
of all kinds and the cost comes high.
Do your, part in seeing that he “ gets enough in time”. Buy to
the fullest measure of your ability, National Savings Bonds or
War Savings Certificates and buy with pride and high courage
to-day! To-morrow may be too late!
This advertisement is inserted by the
Breks Trousers
proprietors of Top Dog Men's Wear
Sovereign Hats
SERVICE DEPARTMENT.
Information Sought.
When furniture has been bought at auction
at a price in excess oj the official limit (1) can a
refund of money paid over the ceiling price be
obtained? (2) If so, how can the refund be
obtained? (3) Would the auctioneer and the
buyer be guilty of offences under the price-
fixing regulations?
(1) Yes, if the Court so orders. (2) Report
the circumstances to the Prices Commissioner.
(3) Yes.
* * * *
Did Sir Harry Lauder ever broadcast in Aus-
tralia? If so, when? Was his fee a record
amount ?
Yes, he came to Australia in 1936 and
broadcast over the A.B.C. on January 25, 1937.
The fee was not disclosed.
**' * *
Information on the habits of hermit crabs ?
Hermit crabs carry empty mollusc shells to
protect their soft, fleshy tails, and when the
crab grows too large for its shell it changes
to a larger one. Sometimes the larger shell may
be already occupied by another crab, in which
case there is a fight, during which the crabs
try to pull each other out. A hermit crab has
even been observed to throw sand into the shell
occupied by its rival to make it leave its home.
These crabs are found in sea water from the
shallowest tide-pools to extremely deep regions.
Some carry a stone or burrow into pieces of
rock to protect the soft tail, and use one claw as
a kind of doorstep at its entrance. One kind
(Ccenobitd) crawls about on land and, like its
cousin the coconut crab ( Birgus latro), will
drown if kept in sea water. Hermit crabs are
carnivorous scavengers, feeding on any animal
matter, even starfishes. They lay eggs, which
are carried on appendages along the soft tail.
The newly hatched hermit crab goes through a
metamorphosis, at one stage having a sym-
metrical tail rather like a prawn’s.
Sfc
How to remove creosote from a water-color
painting ?
Iron affected parts between clean blotting-
paper (not too hot) two or three times. Then
apply powdered magnesia where stains appear.
Iron again between blotting-paper and brush
off. If the painting is in a very bad state it
would be advisable to let an expert do the job.
•P *i*
(1) Could sulphanilamide ointment be used
for treating a dog’s inflamed eye? Where is it
obtainable? (2) How can a local ancesthetic
be prepared and administered as an aid to ex-
tracting a molar from a dog’s head?
(1) Sulphanilamide ointment is hard to
get. Try this treatment (all ingredients readily
obtainable): Get loz. 10 per cent. Argyrol
and tube of Golden Eye Ointment; place
two drops Argyrol solution in the aiiected eye
thrice daily and after wiping away the surplus
solution from around the eyelids apply a smear
of the ointment to the edges of the eyelids. (2)
Injection of anaesthetic and extraction of tooth
require a high amount of skill, and should be
left to a vet.
H= * * *
(1) How many times has Jack McNamee met
the Alabama Kid? (2) Where and when did
the fights take place, and results?
(1) Four. (2) At Melbourne on December 16,
1939, and at Adelaide on January 29, 1940, when
Alabama Kid outpointed McNamee in t 2
rounds; at Sydney on February 3, 1942, when
Alabama Kid stopped McNamee in six rounds;
at Sydney Stadium on April 17, 1943, when
Alabama Kid retired at the end of the eighth
round.
Brief Answers.
H.W.W.: You may spend £25 a year on
house repairs; this includes materials and
wages F.C.: If you forward ss. to the
N.S.W. Registrar-General search will be made
for record of the sale and locality 8.C.W.:
Can find no record of the marching competition
you refer to; it was probably a local affair....
1.8. T.: (1) Colin Ross was hanged in 1922.
(2) Succession to British Throne: Princess Eliza-
beth, Princess Margaret Rose, the Duke of
Gloucester, Prince Edward. (3) Maynard’s
Farmer’s Handbook is out of print. (4)
Plinner’s Food Health and Vitamins should ‘
suit you. (5) Only unacceptable stories and
drawings are mentioned in that column. (6)
Apply to Sydney office for payment Wager:
A pot still is a primitive means of distilling
alcohol, eucalyptus, etc. The heat is applied
directly to the pot containing the mash
C.S D.: The book you mean is A Handbook
of Wool-classing and Sheep Management, by
J. J. Hardie, obtainable Bulletin office, Syd-
ney; price, 35., plus postage J.T.; Reply
too long to print; send stamped, addressed
envelope M.E.C.: Text is not available
A.R.F.: Thanks, but idea has been used already.
AJ.M.: Information unobtainable
W.R.G.: Can find no agents for lowa cream
separators.. ...J.D.O’D.: Try injecting kerosene
with an oilcan or use Cooper’s weed-killer.
Answers to Correspondents
Name and address must appear on the MS. No
liability is undertaken re contributions voluntarily
submitted;' and no MS. will be returned unless
stamps accompany. MS. should be addressed to
the Editor.
The Muse aroused:
W.F.S.: —
Careful plans by the chiefs, Sir Thomas and Mac-
Arthur,
Forged the links in the chain that spelt Nippon’s
disaster.
R.C.: —
The butcher waved his knife at me, I nearly had to
grab it — .
“No bloody beef, no bloody lamb, not even bloody
rabbit!”
J.D.R.: A pinpoint E.S.: Still not up.
E.V.C.: “Please look this over and Cheerio
for Victory.” Cheerio....H.R.: Come again.
J.D.H.; Have yet to hear a, gentleman
snowdrop declaiming “Send me a mate, I pray,
with whom I can this wondrous day rejoice.”
W.J.H.: “What’s it like down Sydney way?”
Unprintable K. 8.: A lively ending, at any
rate M.K.: Archaic 1.R.: Rings well,
but doesn’t ring true... .M.D.McG.: Colloquial
directness of the “job” line is good; but *it
clashes with the general style 0.C.M.:
Learn to walk before you rush at it T.J.;
“Before you snubs attract learn to avoid
inversions “The age-long urge of the
upward surge untrammelled nature does just
obey.” What about saying it in English.....
A.N.S.: Sketch nothing in particular; sunset
poem mildly pleasing... .J.H.: “Forever” won’t
rhyme with “terror”... .J.W.8.: They proceed
m a senes of bumps... -K.B-. Both close.
Work on them more E.S.D.. Spring pome.
... .J M. 8.: It got away.,. .G.D.F.. ltdoesn
wash.... BTh: Not ; ti yelsewhe
£.A C. : T Ditto for Behind the Cliffs ....
A.N.; “Julie” had best away.to bed... .E.G..
Oversweet... .J.D.: Too much of the long arm.


HOW WILL MY ESTATE
BE ADMINISTERED?
This is a problem which every thinking man
or woman must face. By appointing The
Trustees, Executors and Agency Company
Limited you obtain the benefit of an impar-
tial Executor with over 65 years’ specialised
experience in the administration of estates,
and the assurance that the interests of your
legatees will be safeguarded until all trusts
are completed.
No individual Executor can offer such per-
manence, security or efficiency. Charges are
fixed and moderate. Consult your Solicitor
or write or call for Free Booklet detailing
the advantages of the Company’s service.
THE TRUSTEES EXECUTORS
AND AGENCY COMPANY LTD.
Incorporated in Victoria in 1878.
1 BLIGH ST., SYDNEY, and at 401 COLLINS ST.,
MELBOURNE.
Capital (paid and uncalled) and Reserves, £960,643.
BOARD OF DIRECTORS:
Sir Alexander Stewart (Chairman); D. Stuart Murray; Sir Claude
Reading, K.C.M.G.; Sir Lennon Raws, C.8.E.; G. S. Colman, C.8.E.;
Sir Alan Newton.
NEW SOUTH WALES DIRECTORS:
Sir Claude Reading, K.C.M.G. (Chairman); W. D. Stewalt; R. T. Hilder.
N.S.W. Manager: J, W. Russell French.
General Manager: W. Sydney Jones, Manager: K. M. Hughes.
The "Curvilinear” Concentrating Table
SEND FOR
BULLETIN
AND
PRICE.
ẅ
SIMPLE
AND
RELIABLE.
We are the patentees and manufacturers of this table. Call for a demonstration.
Can also quote for all classes of mining machinery, including stamp batteries,
amalgamating tables, magnetic ore separators, classifiers, agitators, everlasting
valves, water- and oil-filters, Rendrock and all other explosives and accessories.
Electric motors and Ellison switch gear.
GUTHRIDGE PTY. LIMITED,
Sole Patentees and Manufacturers,
10-12 PARRAMATTA RD., CAMPERDOWN, SYDNEY, N.S.W.
The WILD
CAT
COLUMN
Commercial Bank of Australia
Dividends. W ritten
June, Profit. Ordinaries.* Off. Reserves,
£ £ £ £
Premiums on new shares, £76,600.. 2,332,149
1932. . 199,670 5 p.c.= 100,000. 10,000 2,320,312
1933.. 213,634 5 ~,, 100,000 20,000 2,329,252
1934.. 209,154 5 ~,, 100,000 20,000 2,333,712
1935.. 228,458 5.8„ „ 116,667 20,000 2,340,809
1936.. 234,481 5.8„ „ 116,667 25,000 2,348,929
1937.. 247,435 6.6„ „ 133,333 25,000 2,353,337
1938.-262,384 7.1„ „ 141,667 30,000 2,359,360
1939.. 262,910 7.1„ „ 141,667 30,000 2.365,909
1940.. 264,157 7.1„ „ 141,667 35,000 2,368,705
1941.. 258,110 7.1„ ~ 141,667 35,000 2,365,454
1942.. 241,813 6.6,, „ 133,333 25,000 2,364.240
1943.. 241,553 6.6„ „ 133,333 26,000 2,362,766
* Prefs. have had 4 p.c. ( £84,694) each year.
While opportunists within Government
departmental services continue to enlarge
the disorganisation that exists around
them by taking on more staff on every
possible occasion, with the result that
such setups as the Division of Import
Procurement have reached staggering
dimensions, essential banking services
have been cut to the bone. In spite of
the greater use of female clerks, the total
staff of the Commercial of Australia is
down to 86 p.c. of pre-war strength,
although bank clearings have reached
record volume and the banks have ac-
cepted a number of additional war-time
responsibilities, such as war-loan organ-
ising and the collection of clothing
coupons, on a voluntary basis. Also, the
Wizards of Oz at Canberra and in capital-
city departments have not relaxed their
insistence upon form-filling, tax-collect-
ing and other compulsory, unpaidffor
labor.
The C.B.A.’s chairman sums up the
position in relation to the bureaucrats
pretty well:
When hostilities commenced in Septem-
ber, 1939, the trading banks were the first
to be subjected to Government control,
which has been progressively enlarged as the
necessity for a more intensive war effort in-
creased. From the outset we have recog-
nised that many expedients are necessary in
circumstances that are exceptional, and we
have loyally co-operated with the Common-
wealth Bank in every effort required to
assist the utmost prosecution of the war.
All types of industry have been subjected
to control in various degrees, and it has
been accepted by producer, manufacturer
and consumer alike as part of the price to
be paid for the maintenance of democracy
and ultimate freedom.
Theorists and doctrinaires are, however,
wielding a power never intended, even as
a war-ttme measure, and an extension of
bureaucratic control to- the post-war era
will destroy the spirit of enterprise and dis-
courage the initiative and energy that have
characterised Australians and other mem-
bers of the British race since the founda-
tions of our Empire were laid.
Chairman Webb, in objecting to the term
“private banks” as being misleading, said
the C.B.A. had 12,208 shareholders, and
the nine trading banks together had be-
tween 70,000 and 80,000 shareholders.
During the year to June 30 the in-
creased national income—partly- an in-
flationary myth and partly a result of in-
creased returns for wool and other
primary products and the big wages paid
to munition workers, maritime employees,
etc. —brought a growth in banking figures
generally. The use of central-bank credit
by the Treasury tin a large scale and the
comparatively light taxation on the bulky
lower incomes, accentuated by the poor
public response to war loans and the
reduction in stocks held by wholesalers
and retailers, were reflected in larger
deposits throughout the banking system.
The C.B.A. got its full share of the
increase:—
1941. 1942. 1943.
Notes .. .. £6,184 £6,182 £6,181
Bills, etc. .. 1,606,203 ]
Free deposits.. 17,861,800 \ 42,953,708 53,470,372
Fixed deposits 17,857,925 J
Liquid assets.. 15,502,597 23,994,444 35,741,457
Advances .. 27,141,333 24,239,231 23,069,776
Premises .. 1,313,001 1,316,820 1,254,450
The increase in deposits, bills, etc., was
£10,516.664. The fall in ordinary ad-
vances (£23,069,775) was £1,169,455, but
the amount lent to the Commonwealth
Bank as “surplus investible funds”
increased by £8,269,000, reaching
£11,847,000. 'This money earns interest
at the low rate of 15s, per cent. Includ-
ing war-time deposits, the bank’s liquids
increased to 66.8 p.c. of its total liabili-
ties to the public, a position which, while
it may indicate that ample funds should
be available for any properly-planned
post-war development, for the present
points to low earning power.
The net profit last year was almost
stationary at 3.7 p.c, on shareholders’
funds as they stood at June 30. Gross
profit was £56,333 lower at £1,307,375,
but, mainly because of inability to effect
repairs to premises and fittings and to
the closure during the year of 28 branches
and eight agencies, a stable appearance
was maintained in the net figure
(£241,553). The div. stayed at 6.6 p.c.
Commenting on post-war currency and
exchange plans, the board points out our
dependence on international trade and
world conditions generally, and adds that
“the responsibilities of nationhood imply
many things apart from ther selling of
produce to other countries, and the sacri-
fices being made today by our fighting
forces must be followed by a spirit of
goodwill and material sacrifice if we are
to build a solid foundation for inter-
national peace in our time,”
Finney, Isles and Co. (Brisbane)
To
Jan., Profit. Dividends. Reserves. Reserves.
dj £ ,/£ £
1934.. 25,027 7 p.c. = 19,337 5,690 26,598
1935.. 35,506 7 „ ~20,410 15,096 41,694
Profit on sale of property, £13,121.. 54,815
1936.. 45,868 7 p.c. = 25,640 20,228 75,043
1937.. 49,786 8 „ „ 29,454 20,332 95,375
1938.. 51,746 10 ~ ~ 37,033 14,713 110,088
1939.. 52,853 10 „ „ 37,371 15,482 125,570
1940.. 56,101 10 „ „ 37,681 18,420 143,990
1941.. 44,412 10 ~ „ 38,113 6,299 150,289
July, *
Life-policy bonuses, £2433 .. .. 152,722
1941*. 25,789 10 p.c. = 19,190 6,599 159,321
1942.. 48,610 10 „ ~38,379 10,231 169,552
1943.. 63,568 10 „ „ 38,379 25,189 194,741
* Six months.
Recently Queensland’s Premier Cooper
complained that higher ceiling prices fixed
for beef in Sydney were jeopardising his
State’s meat supplies for civilian require-
ments, notwithstanding Queensland’s
heavier demands resulting from consump-
tion by Allied Works Council employees
and other services. The population in-
crease in the State has also aggravated
the vegetable position ; Sydney again is
allowed to outbid Brisbane, and supplies
have been going south instead of north,
Mr. Cooper complains. This question
of civilian supplies seems to be reaching
major proportions in the northern State:
Finney, Isles’s chairman, referring to
clothing more than food, says “it has
been a continual source of worry to
secure a reasonable supply of assorted
merchandise even of the most essential
nature. This can be better understood
when I tell you that at least 80 p.c. of
manufactured goods distributed to the
public in Queensland comes from N. S.
Wales and Victoria, and that transport
has been the biggest problem.”
Notwithstanding the worry, it appears
that Finney’s did a good job last term.
Sales showed an increase over the pre-
vious period, though in some departments
“it was most difficult to offer anything
like the same variety of goods.” The per-
centage of gross profit, both in relation
to sales and to cost of goods, “showed a
considerable decrease,” and total gross was
only £1694 greater at £287,718 ; but be-
cause of a “severe reduction in expenses”
net profit prior to taxation (allowing
£7206, down £BB7, for depreciation) was
disclosed at £126,733, up £33,452. An
extra £18,494 was allowed for “taxation
and contingencies” (£63,165), leaving net
profit as per the introductory table
£14,958 higher at £63,568, representing
16.5 p.c. on capital, compared with 12-6
p.c. in the preceding year and 13.4 p.c.
in the previous six months. The div.
remained at 10 p.c., and £25,189 *was
carried to reserves (£194,741).
Altogether it been an excellent per-
formance, and quite out of keeping with
the average run of results among Com-
monwealth retailers. There are undoubt-
edly many more customers to serve in
the north nowadays, and that is a big
factor in Finney’s buoyant figures ; but
the management had proved itself even
before the war started. A feature of the
accounts that makes the future a little
less assuring than the past is the reduc-
tion in stock values, down £16,717 last
term, which suggests an even more diffi-
cult immediate future for the manage-
ment :
January, ( July —\
1934. 1941. 1942. 1943.
Capital ... £276,243 £383,793 £383,793£389,469
Debentures .. 39,000 ■ •
Mortgages .. 44,174
Creditors . . 18,883 133,276 78,144 39,470
Tax reserves, etc. 16,620 30,150 41,109 63,547
Property, plant,
etc. .. 192,768 356,313 352,785 343,746
Stock.. .. 158,039 305,463 300,875 284,158
Book debts, etc. 39,156 48,799 31,769 19,791
Investments and
cash . . 44,505 15,156 6,358 58,721
The board’s comment on the stock posi
tion is that it “must be considered satis-
factory under existing conditions, and we
are pleased to say that we still receive an
assortment of goods at frequent though
irregular intervals from Great Britain.”
The balance sheet shows growing
liquidity, and all assets appear to be
worth their full book figure. Debtors are
kept up to the mark, and the co.’s free-
hold place of business is a property of
increasing value ; it is in the heart of
the shopping and entertainment area of
the city.
Communications are opening up on
a wider scale with the Allied world fol-
lowing the turn in the tide in the Pacific
and the elimination o'f Italy as an oppo-
nent in the Mediterranean. This may
mean a greater variety of some overseas
goods and a more economical distribu-
tion of all goods. Within the Common-
wealth politics continue to overshadow
finance, and doctrines seem to be dis-
placing logical planning to some degree.
The immediate danger is costs generally
and value for wages in particular.
Peters Ice Cream (Vic.)
Towards
June, Profit. Dividends. Reserves. Deficit.
£ £ £ £
1934.. 14,225 8 p.c. = 9,799 4,426 15,058
Added to depreciation reserve, £BlOl 6,957
1935. . 9,632 6 p.c. = 7,347 2,285 4,672
Reserves.
Added sundry reserves, £7017 .. 2,345
1936.. 10,164 8 p.c. = 9,800 364 2,709
Added sundry reserves, £15,379 .. 18,088
1937.. 20,023 9 p.c. = 13,675 6,348 24,436
Added sundry reserves, £15,614 .. 40,050
1938.. 21,793 9 p.c. = 15,078 6,715 46,766
Deficit.
Reserves reduced, £65,811 .. .. 18,546
1939.. 22,524 9 p.c. = 15,077 7,447 11,099
1940.. 24,272 9 „ „ 16,948 7,324 3,775
Reserves.
1941.. 23,372 9 „ „ 17,571 5,801 2,026
1942.. 28,381 8,3 „ „ 16.270 12,111 14,137
1943.. 40,163 9.6 „ „ 18,873 21,290 35,427
Heading solidly in the right direction
even before war brought its huge demand,
the business is now performing in the
traditional manner of its Sydney founder,
owner of a £20,540 paid-up share interest
and option-holder at par over a further
30,000 shares if more are ever issued.
However, by careful husbanding of dis-
posable profits and liberal attention to
the important question of depreciation,
the co. at the moment isn’t in need of
external finance, despite the rate of pro-
gress being exhibited. War appears to be
introducing a lot of new permanent cus-
tomers in the services and elsewhere, and,
“taking the long view”—also no doubt
with an eye to the possible short-run
difficulties with regard to cream supplies
—the board since the close of accounts
has acquired the shares of the Trafalgar
Milk Supply, conducting a milk depot
and butter factory. All are developments
which, among other things, suggest the
possibility of some of the £82,825 of
capital which went overboard at the be-
ginning being restored when things of
the kind again become possible.
Modestly described as “considerable,”
last year’s expansion in sales was achieved
by elimination of many packaged pro-
ducts and concentration on standard lines,
while rigid economies in man-power,
transport and distribution helped on the
costs side. The result was a profit £11,782
in excess of the previous year s after
adjusting the latter for tax of £4542
written back. More remarkable is that
it was struck after a charge of £91,750
(against £28,458) for taxation, provision
of £6533 for staff benefits and writing
off £3193 more depreciation (£19,619) in
cognisance of the extra strain on plant.
On capital the surplus was 20.7 p.c.,


Queensland
Insurance Go.
Ltd.
Head Office:
Pitt & Bridge Streets,
Sydney.
The Largest
Australian Company
Transacting
Fire, Marine, Accident, House-
holders’ Comprehensive, Workers’
Compensation, Boiler Explosion,
Machinery Breakdown, Aviation,
etc.
HAPPY RELIEF
FROM PAINFUL
BACKACHE
Many of those gnawing, nagging l , painful
backaches people blame on colds or strains
nre often caused by tired kidneys—and can ba
Relieved when treated In the right way.
The kidneys are Nature’s chief way of tak-
ing excess acids and poisonous waste out of
the blood. Most people pass about 3 pints a,
day or about 3 pounds of waste.
If the 15 miles of kidney tubes and filters
Bon’t work well, poisonous waste matter stays
In the blood. These poisons may cause fre-
quent and scanty passages with smarting and
burning, nagging backaches, rheumatic pains,
loss of pep and energy, getting up nights,
swelling, pufflncss under the eyes, headaches
pnd dizziness.
Don't wait 1 Ask your chemist or store for
DOAN’S BACKACHE KIDNEY PILLS, used
Successfully by millions for over 40 years.
JThey give happy relief and will help the 15
biiles of kidney tubes flush out poisonous'
Waste from the blood. Get DOAN’S BACK-
ACHE KIDNEY PILLS to-day—the remedy
that will make you well and keep you well*
The work of trustees and
executors is highly special-
ised—it is unwise to entrust
it to inexperienced hands.
Leave the management of
your estate to a firm render-
ing complete and capable
service. Special facilities
are available for country
and interstate clients. Write
for booklet.
smimßoviiiiLsco
I 133 PITT STREET. SYDNEY.
INVENTORS. —Have you an idea worth patenting?
Griffith, Hassel and Griffith, Patent Attorneys,
Asbestos House, Cr. York and Barrack Streets, Sydney,
obtain Commonwealth and foreign patents.—Anvt.
♦ ♦ ♦ •
DAVllflS & COLLISON, Patent Attorneys, Collins
House, 360 Collins Street, Melbourne, 0.1. Austra-
lian and overseas Patents anr> Trade Marks.— Advt.
vo\miK JUNSM^ON
problem
Illustrating
the LUDOWICI
PIVOT DRIVE
LUD 0 Wl C I S
have the answer
BEHIND the fine quality and the assurance of maximum efficiency in
Ludowici Power Transmission Equipment, stand Ludowici Technicians
—men whose knowledge and experience of every power transmission re-
quirement enable them to give a ready answer to your particular problem.
Our reputation has been built on our willingness to give an unbiassed
opinion and to recommend and supply the most suitable equipment for
each power transmission application.
You have only to ask for our advice to haye it freely given.
]. C. LUDOWICI & SON LTD.
117 YORK STREET, SYDNEY
LEATHER
BELT I N G
•
PULLEYa
.f
COUPLINGS
SHAF T I N G
GEARS & HANGERS
LUDOWICi'S
POWER
TRANSMISSION
CAPSTAN
The Empire’s
-•
Favourite Cigarette
Back the afiack! Lend fill they crack!
Subscribe fo the 4fh Liberty Loan.
ISSSD-11.4S
compared with an adjusted 14.5 p.c., and,
though the div. went up to 9 2-3 p.c.,
the odd two-thirds is only in equalisation
of the ’42 reduction, chairman Christen-
sen says. The £21,290 remaining lifted
free reserves £35,427 in excess of patents,
etc., not treated as an asset herein.
Liquid resources are bursting the co.’s
pockets and will still be considerable
even if a tax cheque has to be drawn for
the full £9l 750 provided- —
1935. 1939. 1942. 1943.
Paid capital.. £122,505 £167,453 £195,059 £195,059
Sundry creditors 25,703 21,206 10,126 19,479
Tax reserve .. 6,000 33,000 9i,7a0
piant° lds " e1’ 215 1 180,829 169,496 158,276
stocks . ' 2,859 10,614 37,493 50,121
Sh,“ ls ilffi tSJ lfcSl mS
Fixed assets are in at £299,609, less de-
c .
707 f ° f i ’ a P ro y sion f
£3„ 707 less than the cost value of he
P la ?‘ :o “P® nen , t - , Stock . , IS , re P°^ d
™ ” , at a , '? Vd CO " SIS en ‘ Wlth th , e
?£ mcreased trad : ng - and ’
“ ™‘k * thC ” anagement t has . don ?
sIX. r ? “a- r° enSUre .‘XT' 5 ' o£
f“ P r P b . S ,° £ ,tS . ?hie£ raw , . cream -
JiLSdTr. d au ! priorities
allotted ice-cream_andbutter.
Big Bell, Triton, Spargo’s Reward,
Gladiator, Sterling and Ora Banda
United are all in receipt of assistance
from the Federal £lOO,OOO grant to main-
tain the West’s goldmining industry.
Seven months’ expenditure to 30/6/’43
was £13,283, half in respect of Triton,
and the rate has accelerated since. An-
other dozen casualties, including Bur-
bidge and Consolidated Gold Areas, are
billed for relief.
* * * *
Commandeering of miners and machin-
ery by the man-power authorities has
forced Coolgardie (W.A.) to do its
damnedest to keep its golden tail up. Not
long ago Tindals and Phoenix (old Bay-
ley’s Reward) were on the upgrade as
regards production, several smaller shows
were doing well, and the early resurrec-
tion of Burbanks Birthday Gift, from
which much wealth was taken in the early
days, was tipped as a certainty. Now
Tindals, robbed of some of its plant, is
not the producer it hoped to be, Phoenix
is battling along under difficulties, those
of the smaller shows which have not had
to close down are doing likewise, while
the prospect of Burbanks coming to life
again in the near future is blighted.
Coolgardie town, or rather what is left
of it, is paralysed. More goats than
people inhabit it. What a contrast com-
pared with 40-odd years ago! Then
Coolgardie was described by a world-
renowned mining expert as “a handsome
town of probably 8000 inhabitants,
furnished with electric lights, telephones,
hansom cabs and possessing imposing
public buildings.” He added that 150
mines had been floated and that, on the
strength of this and the skite of its
boosters, plans for a town hall equal to
anything in Australia had been prepared
and a jewelled mayoral chain had been
ordered in London. All but two of the
150 flotations have gone with the wind,
only one or two buildings remain, and
plans for the town hall are on exhibition
as something out of the past. The
jewelled mayoral chain was never bought.
* * * *
The war hasn’t stopped State aid to
mining in the West. Advances by the
Mines Department last year included
£3210 for cost of development and pur-
chase of plant and £6347 for subsidies to
public-crushing battery owners. Princi-
pal receipts were £2144 refunds on ad-
vances and £1535 prospecting refunds.
Before the war hundreds of prospectors
received sustenance throughout the year,
but man-power call-ups have relieved the
State of this expenditure.
From London:
U.S. has been and still is buying Bolivian
tin, Chilean copper and, in much smaller quanti-
ties, certain steel-alloy metals, antimony and
mercury at prices well above American official
“ceilings,” and, with transport charges and loss
of metal during transhipment added, has been
losing heavily. So far the debit is stated to be
525,000,000 and to be rising fast. U.S., how-
ever, smiles and says it is quite satisfied with its
policy, which has not only helped to stimulate
metal production in South America and thus
raise supplies for U.S. industries, but has also
enabled production engineers in U.S. war fac-
tories to plan their programmes on the basis
of a stable level of metal prices. Today almost
the whole of the country’s metal supply is
absorbed in war products for which the Gov-
ernment has to foot the bill. Hence the sale of
imported materials below the actual cost of
imports does not in fact represent a true loss.
The Government is merely losing on its metal
transactions what it later saves in armaments
costs.
* * * *
Jo’burg broadcasts that the big Rand
mineowners are largely concerned with
two factors —diminishing labor supply
and curtailment of development. At
316,370 the native labor force they say
is below requirements and that the posi-
tion shows a tendency to deteriorate. Re-
duction in development is the result of
efforts to economise in consumption of
stores and materials. In one mine in
which Australian investors are interested
curtailment of 25 per cent, is described as
excessive in view of a decrease in the
proportion of payable ore disclosed in
the course of work done. In another it
has been found impossible to reduce de-
velopment without serious consequences.
Apart from the effect on ore reserves of
a curtailed development programme, ris-
ing costs have caused the value of
marginal ore to fall below pay limit.
* * * *
“O.B.”: “Rainbow gold” is how a
member of the House of Commons
described the promised return after the
war of 20 per cent, of the excess-profits
tax held in reserve. He said that, despite
the assurance of the Chancellor of the
Exchequer, industrialists didn’t really ex-
pect ever to get it. They looked upon
it as a pot of gold at the foot of the
rainbow which would never be reached.
Yet industry would require big reserves
in order to re-equip and expand to meet
the post-war situation.


Make your subscription at
any Bank , Savings Bank ,
Money Order Post Office
t or Stockbroker,
J&\ 4fc
m
w
5iP
b
This Subscriber's Badge is pre-
sented to every subscriber to
the 4th Liberty Loan.
8&0PE /rs roo £AT€
fad/Aed/tod
Good interest is paid half-yeariy to 4th Liberty Loan subscribers. If you invest your money for 5 years the rate is 2i%, or for
j6_years 3i%. interest starts from the day of subscription. Pay cash or buy bonds on convenient instalments.
4L24.1T
The Mutual Life and Citizens ,
Assurance Company, Limited
Martin Place and Castlereagh Street,
SYDNEY.
Founded 1886.
There is no better way of pi widing
cash for your family, or for yourself
when you retire, 1 -than by taking out
a policy with The M.L.C,
ASSETS EXCEED £37,000,000
ANNUAL INCOME EXCEEDS
£5,500,000.
M. 0. Alder, A.1.A.,
General Manager.
Business,Rollery,Etc.
The Keystone of Freedom
Socialism and socialistic trends have
no natural place in Australia. The
futility of socialisation is apparent
to all who can see, think and remember.
Socialism in practice has never shown
that it possesses the key to greater pro-
ductivity, greater efficiency or greater
freedom for the individual. Usually it
has turned out to be simply a* vehicle
for the strengthening of the hands of
either bureaucrats or dictators.
The Australian experience of boards
and bureaucrats has been one of high
cost to the consumer, often with poor
returns to the producer. The producer
and consumer have to bend the knee to
the bureaucrats, from among whom we
sometimes see arise petty dictators.. Over-
government and an overloaded civil ser-
vice have been curses in this country for
years past. They grow worse, and under
open socialism they would undoubtedly
become worse still.
If socialism is no good for Australia,
then a great many of the foundations
being laid by the present Government
are a great present waste, as a
danger to post-war recovery. The
socialistic manoeuvrings of Canberra, seen
in the activities of the Department of
War Organisation of Industry, the Divi-
sion of Import Procurement (lock Garden
is now on the strength), the shipping
position and the attitude towards such
matters as compulsory unionism, fit in
with its condonation of the activities of
the Communists, who are a menace
to the Australian way of living
and the future of the country. We can-
not afford this dilly-dallying with politi-
cal poison, drugs and pipe-dreams. The
Australian continent smiles on its inhabi-
tants only when they exhibit willingness
to work and show intelligence in their
political behavior.
In the course of an address on the
latest Federal Budget, R. G. Menzies
made the following points;
When the war is over, the indefinite continua-
tion of regulations and controls will be all
right if you believe in the socialised State;
because the socialised State must be the con-
trolled State —it must be the State in which all
has been sacrificed for security. But my col-
leagues and I do not believe in the socialised
state. We believe that these controls, which
are necessary in time of war, must be steadily
reduced when this war is over. We may dis-
cover that you cannot have progress and abso-
lute security at the same time. For a country
like Australia—whose existence, whose pros-
penty, whose spirit are all founded on the
willingness to take risks—to say that the taking
of risks is an old-fashioned idea and that the
one thing that matters is absolute security is, I
believe, a denial of the whole genius of our
people throughout their history. Whatever
political party sits on the Treasury bench, it
must be prepared to find for the ordinary
citizen every scrap of social security that can
be brought to _ him; but that social security
will mean nothing more than a false standard
of living unless there is progress in Australia.
How shall we develop Australia the more
quickly: by having indefinitely in time of peace
a controlled community, as though a state of
war were perpetual, or by having a community
m which .adequate control over the use of
public credit for real public needs exists side by
side with a system which gives real encourage-
ment to enterprise—a state of affairs in which
a man may not be ashamed to admit that he
is in business to make a profit and extend his
undertaking? Men who have held this view
have been responsible for the great bulk of the
employment, progress and prosperity of Aus-
tralia in the past, and I hope that such men
will be allowed to undertake similar responsi-
bilities in the future. If, in order to obtain
“absolute security,” we take away from the
men who control industry every incentive to
progress, then Australia will at long last find
that it has purchased its security at too great
a price, and has brought about a standard of
living lower than we ever expected.
It was of particular significance recently
to read this in “Economic News,” a bul-
letin issued by the Queensland Bureau
of Industry:
In. Australia, the only strong and avowed
totalitarian movement is Communism. We
have, however, a Commonwealth bureaucracy
which even before the war was rapidly growing
in numbers and influence, and at the present
moment is increasing by leaps and bounds.
Totalitarian ideas are beginning to make head-
way in the Commonwealth public service.
Ambitious young men, engaged as war-time
temporaries, envisage a totalitarian regime
with permanent and important jobs for them-
selves: the wirepulling type of departmental
head intrigues to suppress any Parliamentary
criticism of bureaucratic activities.
Not only among Commonwealth public ser-
vants, but also among the younger generation
of university lecturers, lawyers, architects and
other learned professions, sympathies with
Communism are increasing more rapidly than
among manual workers. It is probably fair to
say that many of those concerned feel that
their talents are not at present adequately
recognised and that in a totalitarian State they
would be given positions and influence in
accordance with their merits. Communism in
Australia, as elsewhere, may transfer itself into
National Socialism. The essential idea of both
Communism and National Socialism is that the
ordinary man should be deprived of his free-
dom and that all public affairs should be
regulated by a small group, criticism of whom
should be made a penal offence.
Queensland is the Australian State most
obviously fed-up of bureaucrats. It has
had long experience of them.
In the United States there is a stiffen-
ing of feeling against the inroads of
socialism. Roots of socialisation were
thrown down during the period of the
New Deal, and the present war-time
regimentation of industry has added
strength to those roots. It may be that
a certain vigor has to be shown by weeds
in a garden before they attract enough
attention to be dug up in a general
cleaning-out. Whether the end of the
war will bring the necessary swing of
public feeling against bureaucracy re-
mains to be seen. In the meantime the
First National Bank of Boston is con-
ducting a campaign of its own that is as
relevant to the Commonwealth as it is to
Americans;
The American system is a triumph of indi-
vidual initiative and private enterprise. It has
provided economic freedom and a democratic
form of government. As a matter of fact,
these two have gone hand in hand and will rise
or fall together.
Freedom of enterprise is the keystone of all
freedoms as it provides opportunity for the
individual to develop according to his capacity
and to receive rewards, under competitive
conditions, in accordance with his contribution
to society. The release of individual energy
and initiative under such a constructive stimulus
is the key to progress. Free enterprise
provides opportunity for the fullest expres-
sion of the human spirit and individuality,
when accompanied by a sense of duty and
personal responsibility to the social order.
Without the freedom of enterprise, the Atlantic
Charter Four Freedoms, as well as all others,
would disappear virtually overnight. For the
only alternative to individual enterprise is col-
lectivism, the very nature of .which destroys all
freedoms in its demand that the people give
undivided allegiance to an all-powerful State.
It is highly significant that practically all
modern progress has been initiated under pri-
vate enterprise in liberal democracies. The
greatest menace to an advancing civilisation is
the paternalistic spirit of the Government,
which has been greatly aggravated during the
past decade. The advance of society and the
growing complexity of our economic system
have naturally been accompanied by a growth
in Government services, such as schools, roads,
health, and protection of life and property.
But beyond these basic services there have
prevailed, even in peace-time, multitudinous
bureaus and commissions engaged in the regu-
lation of industry, agricultural labor, commerce
and finance, as well as a steady invasion into
the field of private enterprise. We have reached
the stage where the individual is encouraged to
pack up his troubles and leave them at the
doorstep of Uncle Sam. Such a policy not
only has a demoralising effect upon the people,
but places a terrific strain on our economy.
The Bulletin has said that it seems to
be the policy of the A.L.P. to see every-
one a civil servant, a trade-unionist or
a Government pensioner. Naw in this
country we have a multiplicity of con-
trols, bounties, subsidies, etc., all of which
have the effect of bringing .the popula-
tion within the control of the
cracy. Our individuality and our inde-
pendence are in danger of being over-
whelmed by bureaucratic regimentation,
as, in earlier days, religious regimentation
held sway on the continent of Europe.
The American authority sees in the
debt raised by Governments today the
chains that will bind civil liberties to-
morrow :
For the past decade or so we have been
granting bounties and subsidies with a lavish
hand. We have been virtually heedless of the
ways and means whereby the bills will be met.
It seems hypocritical to be so solicitous of the
welfare of our citizens, particularly the young,
and then proceed to impose staggering burdens
upon them as well as upon posterity. In con-
trast, past generations had a sense of social
responsibility and not only paid their way, but
set aside a large part of their resources and
productive effort to fortify the future. In this
war emergency there is no escape from the
mounting debt, but in our post-war commit-
ments it would be folly to run up bills far
beyond our economic capacity.
When a Government plays the part of Santa
Claus to its people, the impression is given
that the.. money comes from some mysterious
source, like manna from heaven. But the hard
facts are that a Government creates no wealth
or income, but distributes money that it has col-
lected from the taxpayers or from the sale of
its securities, which, in turn, constitutes a mort-
gage on future income. Paradoxical as it may
seem, the more a Government borrows from
the people, the greater control it has over their
destiny.
Every special favor asked of the Government
lor protection against the vicissitudes of life —
whether it be by Labor, farmers, businessmen,
bankers, or professional groups—imperils the
liberty of all the people. With Government aid
goes Government control, and unless checked
there grows up a Frankenstein bureaucracy that
saps the vitality of the country. So while
bureaucracy marches forward under the banner
of liberty and democracy, it leads the people
toward complete regimentation. This is the
price that is paid when free men barter their
independence for Government bread.
The danger is not that the people would
deliberately choose the road of regimentation,
but rather that a large part of our population
may be deluded by the demagogues into be-
lieving that the Government can guarantee
them security and an abundant life without
working for it. The resultant burden of such
an undertaking would be so crushing that pri-
vate enterprise would break down and the Gov-
ernment would take over control.
A summing-up of the Russian experi-
ment :
Any change in the essentials of our economic
system is a backward step toward Communism
and State socialism. But it is inevitable that
when a country has swung to the extreme of
State socialism there is only one direction in
which it can go in order to survive, and that is
back toward the principles underlying private
enterprise. Russia, which embodied all the
principles of Communism with the establish-
ment of a classless society with its doctrine of
providing for each according to his needs,
found this to be true. In her desperation, to
stave_ off wholesale starvation before the war,
Russia was compelled to revamp her system
and to adopt the method of “differential
rewards,” with the consequence that in the pre-
war period there was much more of a spread
in wages between the skilled and unskilled
workers than in this country. The “intelli-
gentsia”—the scientifically trained and pro-
fessional workers —became a privileged class
Who received better pay, wore better clothes,
and had more comforts than the others. So
in little more than two decades, after having
gone the whole distance of Communism, Russia
was again headed toward the principles of pri-
vate enterprise.
So in our eagerness for reform and for
security, let us make sure we do not pull the
temple down on our heads and surrender the
principles which required centuries of struggle


Evidence of
INTEGRITY and SECURITY
Essential when appointing your Trustee .
WHEN you appoint an Executor and Trustee under your Will you should
satisfy yourgelf as to his integrity and that he has a background of ex-
perience in handling Estates. You will be wise to assure yourself that your
Estate will be secure in his hands.
When you appoint Perpetual Trustee Company Limited you can rest assured
on both points. In the management of Estates it brings to bear the Judgment
gained by 60 years’ experience. Unlike most individuals, it has large capital
and reserve funds with consequent financial stability and responsibility.
Send for a copy of “Your Executor and Trustee,’’ which explains the Company's
service.
PERPETUAL TRUSTEE COMPANY, LIMITED
DIRECTORS: T. H. Kelly (Chairman); Hon. T. A. J. Playfair, M.L.0.; E. R. Knox;
_ _ _ . Norman Pope; Allen 0, Lewis; W, Deuchar Gordon.
H. V. Douglass, Managing Director. P. Cureton, Manager,
Executor and Trustee, Agent under Power of Attorney for Absentees and others,
_ Administrator, eto.
Trust and Agency Funds under Administration exceed £60,000,000,
33-39 HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY.
Southern and Riyerina District Representative: O. E, Cowdery, Ourwood Street, Wagga Wsgm.
Western District Representative: H. A, Shaw, 14Q Lord's Place, Orange.
Insure with the
AUSTRALIAN MUTUAL FIRE INSURANCE SOCIETY, LTD
ESTABLISHED 1872.
HEAD OFFICE: INSURANCE HOUSE, 109 PITT STREET, SYDNEY
Invested Funds exceed £500,000.
All classes Marine, Fire and Accident Insurance at lowest rates.
TOURISTS’ AND TRAVELLERS’ BAGGAGE INSURED.
VICTORIAN BRANCH: 411 Collins Street, Melbourne.
QUEENSLAND BRANCH: Woolworth’s Building, Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
Claims Promptly and Equitably Settled. Agents in all Principal Country Towns.
* W. G. BROWN, General Manager.
EVERY MARRIED MAN
should be insured, A few shillings a week put away regularly now will buy a surprisingly
large amount of security for your dependants in the event of your death. By taking out an
endowment policy you can ensure against want in your own and your wife’s old age.
Australasian Catholic Assurance
COMPANY, LTD.
“THE A.C.A.”
has ample funds to meet claims, and is now paying liberal bonuses
in both the Industrial and Ordinary Departments. For review of
actuary’s report see “Bulletin,” 1 7/3/’43.
All Classes of Assurances Effected.
Head Office: A.C.A. Building, 66 King Street, Sydney.
E. J. Mooney, Managing Director. P. J. Ryan, Secretary.
Branch Offices:
Victoria: A.C.A. Building, 118-126 Queen Street, Melbourne.
Queensland: A.C.A. Building, 270 Queen Street, Brisbane.
South Australia: Bank op N. S. Wales Chambers, 12 King William Street, Adelaide.
Western Australia: Warwick House, St. George's Terrace, Perth.
District Offices and Agencies Throughout the States.
FORD TRANSPORT CONSERVATION SKIES—No. 12
ohv° uR
is
i
t
rat
v/t
' \
SN
n
<o> t
Of course , brakes are provided as a means of
stopping a vehicle. They’ll do this job better for a
longer time if treated reasonably. Canny drivers use
engine compression for braking and save most of the
wear on their brake drums and linings. Tyres also
appreciate this kindly thought.
Begin slowing down well before your intended
stop—take your foot off the accelerator, but don’t
apply the brakes just yet. The engine tries to drop back
to idling speed, thus engine compression acts as a
brake. Don’t release the clutch or move the gear lever
into neutral before has fallen below 10 m.p.h.
At this point, the brakes should be applied in a smooth,
gradual pressure.
Follow this rule and you’ll travel twice as far
between brake adjustments, three times as far before
brake linings must be replaced. Moreover, tyres
will last longer.
Tests have shown that a perfectly new set of tyres
can be worn out by repeating 1,000 times the process
of accelerating rapidly to a speed"of 35 miles an hour
and stopping the car as quickly as possible.
DRIVING SPEED AND BRAKING
Fast driving and fierce braking usually go together.
Both are destructive to tyres. Fierce braking should
never be necessary except in an emergency. It encourages
over-confidence which may at some time prove
disastrous.
ŵ
Issued by Ford Motor Company
and Ford Dealers and Distributors
to help conserve trucks, utilities
and cars—vital national assets.
Back the Attack—Put your Savings on Service
Ford Motor Company of Australia Pty. Ltd. (Inc. In Vie.). Beg. Office: Geelong, Vic.
to attain, and are the only ones that can pro-
vide us with an abundant life and individual
liberty.
After the war;
In the forefront of our objectives for the
post-war period must be freedom of production,
for this is the source of jobs for the workers,
income for industry, and revenue for the Gov-
ernment. Our resources and facilities should
be put to the fullest use, and men of enterprise
and vision should be given the incentive to em-
bark upon risk-taking ventures so that we may
build a dynamic economy, with its accom-
paniment of economic and personal freedom.
A changed political “system” will not
remedy administrative failures. Funda-
mental errors cannot be rectified by mere
political new-dealing. It is not a new
system, socialistic or otherwise, that Aus-
tralia needs ; it is a revitalised approach
to those national problems which will
persist so long as our Government and
our people are diffident about accepting
their responsibilities. Reward and
security come from productive work and
co-operative enterprise.
McKerihan, of the N. S. Wales Rural
Bank, has been talking about the intro-
duction of personal loans, the terms being
an interest rate of 5 p.c. and a discount
rate of 5 p.c.—terms which come out
pretty solid on a loan for a year. The
Bank of Australasia, without talking very
much about it, has been running a small-
loans section for five years or there-
abouts. It charges 5 p.c., flat —no dis-
count levied. Repayments are made
over a period of 12 months, an instal-
ment being discharged every payday or
other convenient time. The ’Asia makes
advances of this kind for a specific pur-
pose ; a crossed, not-negotiable cheque is
made out to a doctor, dentist or to
whomever it is that the payment is
wanted made. For some months now
the Bank of New South Wales has been
running a small-loans branch. The trad-
ing banks have made it their business
to render a number of public services
about which very little is ever heard.
Clothing coupons are one of their respon-
sibilities.
* * * *
The only time people are prepared to
pay for liberty is when it is in deadly
danger, and then only some are ready to
pay. It will be useless to ask the people
to pay for liberty when the war is over.
Out of this arises two warnings : Firstly,
of the necessity to pay for war now to the
greatest possible extent, and thus mini-
mise involuntary payment through infla-
tion, and, secondly, that it will not be so
easy to find money for any profitless
project during the peace as it has been dur-
ing this war. Danger has been the stimu-
lant that has caused the comparatively
free flow of funds towards the war effort.
In peace-time the people will have plenty
of money to apply to all the essential ser-
vices, such as hospitals, that may be neces-
sary, but will they be found ready to
offer it? It will be up to them in the
peace, as it has been during this war.
Bank-credit finance used to date is going
to turn out eventually to be the most
expensive method of paying for anything
that Australians have adopted. It would
prove little less burdensome in peace-
time. Roundabout methods of paying for
anything are always the most costly.
* * * *
During September savings-bank deposits
rose by £lO.l million to £392 million,
compared with a rise of £11.7 million in
the previous month. Since the war began
the growth in deposits has been £147
million. Total subscriptions to war-sav-
ings certificates at the end of September
were £37 million.
* * * *
The note issue has reached the huge
figure of £155 million. The increase over
a year has been £4l million, and since
the outbreak of war the rise has been
nearly £llO million. The holding in the
hands of the public has grown about 41-
times since Sept., 1939. The presence and
payment of troops have had something
to do with the note-issue expansion, but
much of it has come about as a result
of currency hoarding in an attempt to
avoid taxation. Many of these hoarders
are scared to invest in war loans for fear
that their evasion may be detected,
* * * *
The chairman of the Commonwealth
Housing Commission, L. O’Connor, esti-
mates that Australia is upwards of
250,000 houses short. This shortage de-
serves much earnest consideration. There
should be every attempt to make good
this lack along lines economical to
the home-buyer, and national considera-
tion should be given to the best build-
ing methods. The mutual life assur-
ance societies might do a great deal
if they took a more active interest in
home-building. They represent a great
store of the people’s savings, and it is
appropriate that these savings should be
directed, in peace-time, to home-building
in a greater ratio than hitherto. Life
offices in combination could have a big
influence on costs and methods in hous-
ing. A life policy combines well with a
home-mortgage.
* * * *
Dr. Lloyd Ross, senior research officer
of the Department (l of Reconstruction,
says that directly the war ends there will
be “demands from those elements who
have profited in the past by building
where and how they pleased for a return
to ‘normality,’ the dropping of all con-
trols and the re-establishment of free en-
terprise.” He contended that preserva-
tion of the Allied Works Council and the
continuance of many regulations would
be necessary to ensure suitable post-war
housing. It is likely that for value re-
ceived there would be little to choose
between the job of the jerrybuilder and
that of the Allied Works Council. Govern-
ment bricks were so costly in N. S.
Wales that the brickworks were eventually
closed, and so it has been with Govern-
ment production right through, in this
war from pistols to tanks. Referring to
the “peace profiteers,” Dr. Ross said,
“We can build community cities, free
libraries and children’s playgrounds.
They can only sell jerry-built homes.
They cut down trees. We can prevent
soil-erosion, grow forests and conserve
water.” Dr. Ross, a disciple of the
bureaucracy, would, no doubt, with a little
encouragement, offer also to do wonders.
But it seems that he can see no builders
in private enterprise except jerry-builders,
and no liberties except license. “We
must,” he insists, “give to the regulation-
weary people other dreams than those of
license and other freedoms than those of
freedom of enterprise,”
* * * *
Associated Pulp and Paper, Burnie, is
a year behind in its orders to commercial
users, “Government orders of special im-
portance” having a priority. Wood
stocks for both pulp and fuel have
fallen ; “indeed, there is no certainty that
continuous running throughout the pres-
ent winter can be maintained.” Short-
age of man-power, petrol and tyres is the
main trouble, though a deficiency of
rolling stock controlled by the Tasmanian
railways has contributed. In spite of all
problems the co. says that “our mill
product has been obtainable in general
at prices very substantially below the
cost of landing similar papers from
overseas.”
* * * *
Motor-cars are again coming back on
the roads after being jacked-up on a
wholesale scale during 1941-42. In July
this year the number of registrations was
469,739, compared with 448,086 in July,
1942, and 517,361 in July, 1941. At June,
1939, the number of motor-cars regis-
tered in the Commonwealth was 562,271,
and at that the time the number of com-
mercial vehicles was 258,085. The com-
mercial-vehicle total now is actually
slightly higher—2s9,43o at July 31. All
these figures exclude defence service
vehicles.


THE SERVICE MAN
Forward in the Solomons.
“Ek Dum”: Further main operations
in the South-west Pacific began at dawn
on October 27, when Maoriland troops
under Major-General Barrowclough and
U.S. forces invaded the Treasury Islands,
less than 20 miles from Faisi, about 35
miles from Ballale and about 40 miles
from the Kahili aerodrome on Bougain-
ville. The landing operations were under
the general command of Rear-Admiral
G. H. Fort, U.S.N.
The landing was made in the narrow
Blanche Channel, which is between the
larger Mono Island and little Sterling,
on the south, forming a well-sheltered
haven in most weather. It was covered
for nearly 10,000 yards by naval gunfire,
which was answered by light Japanese
artillery ashore. Most of the land guns
were silent by the time the boats reached
the beaches with only small casualties,
but there still was some m.-g. fire as the
second wave of boats went in.
By the time the first reinforcements
were ashore, the original landing party
was roping off the Japanese retreat routes
westward and north-westward with heavy
mortar fire, with assistance from a power-
ful N.Z. and American fighter umbrella.
From then onwards there was an ever-
growing backing of land forces, poured
on to the island by every type of landing
craft.
The enemy retreated into the hills and
by November 1 was boxed up in the
vicinity of the village of Malsi, in the
north of the island.
It was a good operation, carried out
with little of the air opposition which
might have been expected from a foe in
command of several large aerodromes
within 100 miles of Mono, two of the
biggest 40 miles or less away. But Kahili
and Ballale had had a tremendous past-
ing over several days, which probably
put them out of action. Of 25 aircraft
which gave the enemy support, 12 were
shot down.
At midnight on the day of the landing
an American raider party was put ashore
near Vozo, on Choiseul, which lies south-
east of Bougainville. The troops were
joined next morning by a parachute
force.
Those two successful operations give
the Allies positions from which to attack
the Shortlands and Faisi and the Buin
area of Bougainville from the south-east
and from the south-west. The attack
probably will be delayed only long
enough to allow of the organisation of
advanced bases from which to strike.
At Scarlet Beach
At Finschhafen and in the Ramu areas
of New Guinea there was little activity
reported. At the former, both sides were
licking their wounds after the fierce
battle of Scarlet Beach, a much tougher
engagement than at first appeared. The
beach is that on which the Ninth Divi-
sion men landed on September 22, and is
about six miles north of Finschhafen.
The Japs came down from Sattelberg
and Heldsbach in fierce, gusty charges
which belied the frequently-repeated myth
that they are no good at close quarters,
and for five days the battle raged almost
continuously. At one stage, the enemy cut
communications with Finschhafen and
forced his way to within 200 yards of the
beach, surrounding a strong outpost of
the A.I.F. and pressing to within 10
yards of the command post of the area.
But the order went out: “Scarlet Beach
is vital. Hold out at all costs.” And with
Sattelberg positions battered flat by air-
craft, the tenacious enemy was at last
beaten off, leaving at least 1500 of his
bayonet and machine-gun men dead be-
hind him—lloo had been counted by
the week-end, and, there were more to
come.
At times it was touch and go. The
Australians’ long perimeter was only
weakly held at points, but the A.1.F., and
particularly the Westralians and S. Aus-
tralians, who bore much of the brunt of
the fighting in the most crucial sectors,
lived up to the grand traditions of Tel El
Eisa. One lot of Pioneers, about 80 men
under a South Australian major, was
isolated for nearly a week, but, fed by
air and reduced for three days to a
rationed diet of bully beef and a mouth-
ful of fruit juice, they beat off seven
major attacks with considerable slaughter
before they were relieved.
Within a week or two the monsoon
rains will begin in New Guinea, and the
troops, fortunately better supplied than
in 1942, will face the same terrible condi-
tions which they suffered during the Buna
campaign.
It becomes clear that General Mac-
Arthur’s forces are not yet in full control
of the Huon Peninsula, as it was believed
that they were after the capture of Lae.
The enemy holds the whole of the Mac-
lay coast and most of the eastern end of
the peninsula. And he still has strong
and desperate bodies of men in the Finis-
terre and Sattelberg regions, though 3300
have been killed since Sept. 22, mainly
on the Finschhafen front, whereas Aus-
tralian casualties have been light.
The Jap is showing more activity in
the air, and, as on land, his strength has
exceeded expectations.
Aircraft Destroyed, 775
After the first of the recent great air
raids on Rabaul, General MacArthur esti-
mated that the 177 aircraft destroyed or
damaged represented 60 p.c. of the enemy
strength in that area. During the
whole of October nearly 700 tons of
bombs were dropped on Rabaul. In
the New Guinea-Solomons area the Allies
destroyed 115 machines and probably an-
other 115, besides damaging 105.
Those destroyed on the ground totalled
303, and 36 were probably destroyed and
78 damaged. The enemy’s certain loss
for four months is calculated at 2292
machines. Yet there are still aircraft at
Rabaul and elsewhere.
The bag of enemy shipping during the
month consisted of one cruiser, seven
destroyers, five auxiliaries, 14 merchant-
men and 84 barges and small coastal ves-
sels. A cruiser, a patrol boat, 51 barges
and a ship which appeared to be an air-
craft-carrier were probably sunk. Raid-
ing throughout the month was persistent
and deadly at points—Kahili was attacked
16 times and Cape Gloucester, on New
Britain, 14 times.
On Friday, for the loss of three Light-
nings and a Liberator, 25 Jap ’planes
were destroyed in the air and 20 on the
ground, besides 18 probables, in a raid on
the Vunakanau ’drome, Rabaul; 115
tons of high explosives were dropped
and substantial damage done.
Death of Brigadier Goodwin
The A.I.F. has lost the third of its
brigadiers to perish within a few weeks
in New Guinea Brigadier Shirley
Thomas William Goodwin, D. 5.0., killed
in action on October 26. He was 48 years
old, son of Lt.-Col. J. T. H. Goodwin, of
Canberra, and one of the most valued
artillery officers in the army. In the last
war he was on Gallipoli with the R.A.A.
attached to the Ist Division, A.I.F. Cap-
ture by the Turks lost him the oppor-
tunities which his ability would have
opened for him had he continued a com-
batant. He filled several administrative
jobs on his return to Australia, was for
a time instructor in administration and
military law at Duntroon, and went to
the Middle East as 0.C., 2/12 Field
Regiment, which he led through the Lib-
'yan campaigns, in Tobruk and at El
Alamein. He was serving as brigadier of
artillery when he was killed.
Eighth Army Advances.
“Ek Dum”: There was little movement
in Italy last week. In Italy at this time
of the year rain pours down every few
days, turning the mountain tracks into
mud. Rivers run bankers.
The Germans are still resisting
strongly, and their forces appear to be
growing. A report at the week-end said
that they were flooding the Pontine
Marshes, 27 to 60 miles south of Rome,
in the hope of impeding the advance of
the Fifth Army, whose troops are within
30 miles of the marshes.
The Eighth Army had pushed down the
central Apennine road to within 10 miles
of Isernia on October 31, through a
scrubby hill terrain, somewhat like the
country through which the road from
Sydney to Bulli passes, save that the
mountains are bigger. And on the
Adriatic coast, despite the flooded rivers
and heavy rain, a battle was in progress
at San Salvo, near the sea, and on the
northern side of the Trigno River. At
one point General Montgomery’s men
were apparently compelled to give
ground ; but there were signs that the
strong German counter-attacks were being
used as cover for a further 20-mile
retreat to the Sangro River, the last de-
fensive line available on the east short of
the Rome-Pescara highway.
Another six miles would open up a
second route to Isernia to the British and
make the eastern flank of the German
line untenable.
A Year from Alamein.
“Ek Dum”: Generals Alexander and
Montgomery found a present from ama-
teur strategists awaiting them during the
first anniversaries of the days when their
grand soldiers were assaulting Rommel’s
lines at Alamein —the actual break-
through took place on November 4-5.
These tokens consisted of sharp raps over
the knuckles for not moving as fast in
the terrible mountain terrain of southern
Italy as the Russians were reported to be
moving on the smooth, flat, treeless
steppes of southern Ukraine.
The British journalists who chided the
two British generals were joined by Aus-
tralian journalists. One declared it
“natural that there should be disappoint-
ment in Britain and America at the slow
progress of the Fifth and Eighth Army,”
and remarked that “the campaign obvi-
ously has not gone the way the Allies
designed.”
A campaign rarely goes the way it is
designed ; but whether plans go awry or
have to be altered or adapted to circum-
stances and developments armchair criti-
cism is always reserved for English-speak-
ing generals. There was none for Russian
generals when the Red Army was going
backward in 1941-42. On the contrary,
the British were scornfully bidden to
borrow a few to replace the dunces in
Egypt, and to put one, “the greatest
general of all time,” in charge of the
invasion of western Europe.
Alamein’s Results
Generals Alexander and Montgomery,
if their battles do not possess the spec-
tacular propaganda features which have
made the Russian war unique, have
achieved the following concrete results:
They won the battle of Alamein against
a number of fighting divisions equal to
those of the enemy at Stalingrad, and that
expeditiously and at a surprisingly cheap
cost in lives. This made Egypt safe. In
process of saving it, a shield was set
before Cairo and its million people and
Alexandria, with its great naval port
facilities, which prevented them from
being turned into uninhabited wastes.
Generals Alexander and Montgomery
saved those cities for the Allies and the
British people intact.
Had they failed at Alamein the enemy
would have had the fertile Nile Valley.
He would have gained control of the
Suez Canal. Abyssinia and the great
Allied base of Eritrea would have t>een
his ; so would Aden, Port Said, Suez.
Basra, the Persian oilfields, the back door
to Turkey and to Russia would have been
open to him, along with submarine bases
in the Indian Ocean. Britain’s most
direct routes to Australia and India would
have been closed, together with the great
Allied air route across North Africa. The
British Fleet and the R.A.F. would have
been driven from the Mediterranean. The
fate of Greece would have been sealed.
Malta and Cyprus would have been com-
pelled to surrender. The Germans would
have had full power to force isolated
Turkey to open the Dardanelles, which
might have spelt the doom of Russia. And
they would have acquired an enormous
wealth of grain, metals, oils and labor.
The Eighth Army beaten, there would
have been no Tunisian campaign nor
any German retreat to the Dnieper. The
German retreat from the Don and Stalin-
grad areas began the very day after it was
certain that the battle of Alamein was won.
On to Tunisia
By clearing the African coast to
Tunisia and acquiring ports by which an
attack army could be serviced in the rear
as well as the front of the Tunisian Axis
armies, the Eighth, Army assured the
overwhelming success of the Tunisian
campaign. And in that campaign it
cleared into prison camps and killed or
wounded more of the enemy than were
accounted for at Stalingrad. It made
possible and implemented the main land-
ing in Sicily.
This last move led to complete Allied
control of. the southern Mediterranean.
It freed Malta, wrecked Fascism in Italy
and put Mussolini out of power. It im-
plemented the invasion of Europe proper.
It assured the Allies of a short, easy
route for fuel supplies from Persia by the
Middle-Eastern pipelines and of a short
sea voyage instead of across the Atlantic.
El Alamein and the sequel made it
possible for a chain of bases to be estab-
lished all the way from the Atlantic to
India, and for the diversion of great
naval and air forces eastward to deal
with Japan, robbing that country of
much of the time element on which its
leaders had counted to enable them to
prepare for the decisive struggle.
History may estimate that this change
meant to the Allies the difference be-
tween success and failure in the East. At
the least, it will concede that it shortened
the war in the Pacific.
The day Montgomery’s men landed in
Sicily was again a day which marked a
change of direction in Russia. The day
before the landing the Germans
moving forward towards Kursk ; the day
after, they had stalled. From the day
after, again, they have been in retreat.
And the day when the Japanese began
drawing in their horns in the Pacific to-
wards their inner defence zone coincides
with the Tunisian victory which took
Alexander and Montgomery into Europe
proper and assured control of the Medi-
terranean and of Suez.
The third phase of the war of Alex-
ander and Montgomery has taken them
and their new colleague in operational
fighting, General Mark Clark, of the
United States Army, into Italy itself.
The Task in Italy
To measure their achievement there it
is necessary to remember that they are
fighting at the end of sea routes thou-
sands of miles long, bottlenecked at some
points so as to be open to enemy attack
by land-based enemy aircraft for hun-
dreds of miles. Their reinforcements
have to be carried by sea, their wounded
taken away by sea. Restrictions of sea
carriage limit the size of their forces and
supplies and their fuel consumption.
They cannot afford to squander men
or materials. Large reserves cannot be
kept in their rear as they can in
Russia. They cannot afford to risk
defeat.
The Anglo-American forces have been
in Italy 60-odd days. They have made
sufficient impression on the Germans to
attract 40 German divisions to that ill-
fated country. And, though they may be
slow by peahen press estimates, they
were fast enough to forestall the kind
of destruction in which the retreating
Germans have indulged in Russia.
In that period of 60 days Generals
Alexander, Montgomery and Clark have
taken 20,000 square miles of Italian
territory from the Germans. They have
captured one of the three biggest harbors
of the Mediterranean, on which sits a
city as big as Kharkov, but, instead of
being a hollow, gutted shell like Kharkov,
Naples is a port of inestimable value
which can be reconditioned in a few
weeks, Alexander, Montgomery and
Clark moved too quickly for the enemy
to be able to destroy it. They captured
the great ports of Bari and Brindisi, both
intact —too quickly for the Germans to
interfere with them. They took the great
aerodrome centre of Foggia, with ready-
made aerial facilities which in a little
while will prove priceless. They have
brought Italy into the war on the Allied
side —a fact greater in importance than
appears on the surface.
They have forced the Germans to
occupy Greece and Albania (held by
Italians), demoralised their hold on Yugo-
slavia and Croatia. The Eighth Army
on the Adriatic coast —which borders a
sea under British naval control-—actually
has penetrated already to a point north
of the latitude of Rome.
In Rough Country
The penetration of the southern penin-
sula has been made in mountainous coun-
try. With the exception of limited areas
like the few miles of the Neapolitan Cam-
pagna, from which the enemy retired
helter-skelter virtually without resistance,
level spots in that wild terrain are the
exception rather than the rule.
Picture a countryside in which raging
torrents run through gorges whose sides
are as commanding as the Megalong
Valley in the Blue Mountains, or Burra-
gorang, and whose approaches are as re-
stricted and as difficult as those of the
Victoria Pass on the Bathurst road. Pic-
ture narrow valleys, towering peaks, areas
like the Snowy River country and the
Bogongs, in which fields of fire have been
considered by those who planned the
roads, in which the enemy has to be
scraped off strongly fortified and gunned
hillsides before the valleys can be pene-
trated. Then some idea can be obtained
of what the advancing British and Ameri-
cans so far have had to face in the way
of terrain. In Russia the country over
which the Red Army advance has moved
since July is devoid of any hill which
Italians would class as an antheap.
One would imagine that the fact that
the Allied advance in Italy has been
made swiftly and efficiently enough to
ward off heavy casualties, and that it has
been achieved at a fraction of the
“simply indescribable price” which the
Russians are paying (the quoted words
are Mr. Curtin’s) would have earned a
word of gratitude.
Peahen “experts” seem to like their vic-
tories bloody. Their rapturous passages
about recent Russian battles have de-
scribed how the broad Dnieper flowed
re; with blood and was strewn with
corpses “as thick as autumn leaves” ; how
the 10,000 square miles of the Dnieper
Bend battlefield had become a “veritable
German charnel house” ; how the cities
recaptured were charred ruins; how
750,000 (or 1,000,000) Germans were
caught in “a trap.”
But not one word appears in any of
their literature which suggests that they


Persona! and Missing Friends.
LYNCH Thomas Virgil.—Last known engaged in
Mining Industry, Sabo Cam Norte, Philippines. Any
nerson knowing present whereabouts please com-
municate WEOT AUSTRALIAN TRUSTEE, EXECU-
TOR AND AGENCY COMPANY, LIMITED, 135
St. George’s Terrace, Perth, W.A.
IF S V. P. NELSON, formerly of Raleigh Street,
Thornbury, laborer, communicates with WEIGALL
& CROWTHER, Solicitors, Melbourne, he will hear
something to his advantage.
Divorce Notices.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW, SOUTH
WALES —In Divorce.
TO THOMIAS WILLIAM GREEN late of Wingham.—
TAKE NOTICE that IRIS MARY GREEN has filed
a petition for Divorce No. 2990 of 1943 on the
e-round of desertion without just cause or excuse for
three years If you wish to defend you may enter
an annearance at the Divorce Office Supreme Court
King Street Sydney by the 27th January 1944 and
obtain a copy of the said petition without charge
SS T. MACREADY & ERIC JONES
Solicitors 133 Pitt Street Sydney.—(l.s.) O. K.
body, Registrar in Divorce. „
7^” t HE SUPREME COURT OF NEW SOUTH
WALES — lx Divorce.
Tn iriQFPTT FELIX DOYLE late of Mascot Laborer.
-TAKE NOWOE that MARGARET LILIAN DOYLE
has filed a Petition for Divorce No. 1861 of 1942 on
the ground of drunkenness and failure to support
for three years and upwards If you wish to defend
you may enter an appearance at the Divorce Office
Creme Court King Street Sydney by the Seventh
dav of December One thousand nine bundled and
forty three and obtain a copy of the petition without
chanre from WM. LIEBERMAN & TOBIAS of 56
Hunter Street Sydney.-(L.s.) 0. K. BODY, Regis-
trar in Divorce.
TN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW SOUTH
WALES — In Divorce,
to THOMAS JOHN RICHARDS late of 14 White
StreeT uamain -TAKE NOTICE that ETHEL EMMA
RICHARDS has filed a Petition for Divorce No.
9573 of 1943 on the ground of desertion without
fust cause or excuse for three years and upwards.
If you wish to defend you may enter an appeal ance
at the Supreme Court King Street Sydney by the
31st December 1943 and obtain a copy of the
petitionwithout charge from N CTROWLES- Solici-
tor 92 Pitt Street Sydney. —(L.s.) C. K. BODY,
Registrar in Divorce.
m
am
realise or care a dash of printer’s ink
for the fact that no Russian river can run
red in battle without a very large propor-
tion of the blood being Russian ; that no
great area can be turned into a German
charnel house without bringing death to
thousands of Russian homes, utter
ruin like that of Edom to the countryside
and, with the complete loss for the third
year of Ukraine crops, starvation in the
coming bitter winter to tens of thousands
of women and children ; that not the
most powerful army which ever breathed
can contain and deal with 750,000 deter-
mined enemies without suffering casual-
ties on a scale to make humane ■ people
shudder.
Most of the idiots who profess to
guide world opinion on these matters
appear to look on war as an exciting
game, soldiers as gun-fodder and success
in battle as in direct ratio to the bloodi-
ness of the fighting.
Every mother who has a soldier son,
every young woman or girl who has a
husband, a brother, a sweetheart or a
father in the Allied forces, every public
man and private observer who realises
what the wholesale attrition of the flower
of young manhood in the last war cost
the British Commonwealth, has reason to
thank the British leaders, and particularly
British generals, for the care and patience
with which they have steered towards
their victories in such a way as to avoid
unnecessary loss of lives.
Air-raid Casualties.
“Ek Dum”: Last week was one of the
quietest in months for Germany from
the point of air attack.
Weather was possibly the reason,
though sporadic raids on England con-
tinued, and Berlin, which specialises in
grisly threats, hinted several times that
they were designed to be forerunners of
large-scale attacks with specially designed
weapons. A blazing enemy ’plane fell
into London on October 30. During the
week several enemy ’planes were shot
down over or near British soil.
The respite must have been a great
relief to the enemy population. For far
more Germans have been killed in air
raids than the death-roll caused by the
Luftwaffe in the Battle of Britain. This
was shown by statistics issued last week.
Britain’s civilian air deaths from Sep-
tember, 1939, to June 30, 1943, totalled
49,690. In Hamburg alone in seven
months 28,000 civilians were killed,
and the mortality in other cities
was almost as great in proportion
to population: Cologne, 18,146;
Dortmund, 15,008; Hanover, 6320;
Diisseldorf, 6205; Bochum, 4829;
Duisburg, 4763; Wupperthal, 4635;
Nuremberg, 3947. And the grim total
of 102,396 in seven months did not in-
clude either military, air and naval per-
sonnel or unidentified bodies. Neither
were Berlin nor Austrian figures included.
A German official was quoted in
Zurich as saying that 1,200,086 persons
were killed or believed killed in air raids
up to October 1, and that 6,953,000 —10
p.c. of the population of Germany proper
—had been bombed out of their homes.
Berlin Radio said on October 30 that
over 2,000,000 of Germany’s total resi-
dential rooms have been wiped out.
With bigger bombers coming out of the
factories, and more of them, next year
will be a dreadful one for Germany and
its Allies —if any should be left. Machine
losses of the R.A.F. and the Eighth U.S.
Air Force in the past year have run less
than 5 p.c. Against the loss of 60 U.S.
machines at Schweinfurt recently there
have been raids in which 500 machines
were used without loss at all.
Allied air activity has the effect of
major land operations, and is capable of
being expanded to a point at which it
can bring the Germans to their knees,
without the devastating casualties which
might be involved in immediate landing
operations on the north European coast.
Cherbourg and Brest were the main
centres of attraction for the R.A.F. and
U.S. Air Force late in the week. In Italy
air attacks w r ere on a large scale.
Retreat, but No Debacle.
“Ek Dum”: There are still two Rus-
sian wars —that reported by propagan-
dists, newspapers and correspondents,
none of whom has seen any of the fight-
ing, and that by the official communiques.
"One of the features of the cam-
paign which contradicts the carefully
fostered belief that the Hun army has
become a vast rabble in imminent danger
of being rounded up (“the jaws of giant
pincers are closing on a million Germans
in the Dnieper Bend”) is the evenness of
its retreat. From Orel to Gomel still
in enemy hands —is about 200 miles ;
from Taganrog to the point at which
fighting was going on just north of the
Sea of Azov is about the same ; from
Kharkov, in the centre of the southern
sector, to Krivoi Rog ditto ; ditto, also,
from Lugansk to Dnepropetrovsk. Dne-
propetrovsk was evacuated by the enemy
on October 25, apparently without much
of a fight, along with Dneprodzerzhinsk,
another town devoted to special steels
before the German invasion, some miles
to the north-west.
No bag of German prisoners was
counted except by the Stockholm corre-
spondent of a London paper, who gave
the Dnieper Bend total as 100,000 —
“several hundred” were mentioned in a
communique as having been taken at
Melitopol. Other correspondents, search-
ing their vocabularies for expressive
nouns and adjectives, eventually decided
that, after the surrender of Dnepro-
petrovsk —“a city bigger than Stalingrad”
which the Russians themselves made no
attempt to defend during their retreat in
September-October, 1941 —the Dnieper
Bend had become a “charnel house,” or
a “slaughterhouse” piled with German
dead. The roads were choked with Ger-
mans stunned with the imminence of
“catastrophe,” and pursued by Russians
engaged in the most amazing operations
.—such as horse cavalry dashing ahead of
main formations and opening the way for
tanks, and startling feats on the Dnieper
(in black type), in which “complete gun
crews, heavy mortars and even tanks were
carried across the river on pontoons.”
Stalin’s Version
The Red Army communiques and Mar-
shal Stalin’s orders of the day present
a soberer picture. The order announcing
the capture of Dnepropetrovsk merely said:
Our troops on the Third Ukrainian
Front, with the decisive co-operation of the
troops of the Second Ukrainian Front,
under the command of General Konev,
continued their successful offensive on the
right bank of the Dnieper, and captured
the regional centre of Dnepropetrovsk.
They also captured the town of Dnepro-
dzerzhinsk. These places are important in-
dustrial centres in the southern part of the
country, and important enemy operation
bases in the Dnieper Bend.
To this the communique of October
26 added that south of Melitopol the
troops of the Fourth Ukrainian Front
continued to enlarge their wedge and
occupied a number of strongly-fortified
defence positions ; that the advance from
Krivoi Rog within the Bend, at the
furthest point of Russian penetration, was
continuing, and at some points had
reached three to five miles. It was stated
that on October 24, 105 enemy tanks and
49 ’planes had been destroyed.
The German communique declared
that fighting in the Melitopol sector and
south-east of Zaporozhe had reached
“extraordinary intensity,” that repeated
Russian attacks were halted in “bitter
struggles” and a few breaks-through
“sealed off.” North of Krivoi Rog,
Berlin said, fighting had gone on uninter-
ruptedly for four days, and German
armor had driven a wedge into the Rus-
sian flank which had “greatly relieved
the pressure.” The enemy reported other
battles north-west of Kremenchug and
north of Kiev in the Chernigov region
and still further north-west of Krichev,
where, they declared, “several Russian
rifle divisions” were beaten back.
Next day the Russians mentioned ad-
vances up to 12 miles north-west and
south-west of Melitopol and nine miles
south-west of Dnepropetrovsk, where the
enemy “suffered enormous losses of men
and materials.” In the Krivoi Rog sector,
it was said, the advance continued, but
how far was not specified. And there
were artillery exchanges and reconnais-
sances on other fronts.
The Germans were allowed to be stub-
bornly resisting north of Krivoi Rog,
where they were said to have thrown in
reinforcements, including the 24th Tank
Division from Italy. If the Germans
moved it in the few days since it was last
seen in operation in Italy there can be
nothing wrong with their transport system.
The scale of the fighting in general
again was made clear by statements that
41 enemy tanks and 29 ’planes had been
destroyed on October 25 —in the Orel
battles Moscow sometimes claimed ten
times as many tanks in a single day.
On the Road to Kherson
The Germans admitted a “slight exten-
sion” of the Melitopol salient, but else-
where, particularly west of Smolensk and
in the Kremenchug area, they claimed to
have thrown back the Red Army forces
and “sealed off” small breaches, causing
tank units before Zaporozhe “heavy
casualties.”
Next day the Russians announced offi-
dally that on the low reaches of the
Dnieper, after stiff fighting, the German
front had been penetrated between the
river and the Sea of Azov, and that pur-
suing forces had advanced six to 18 miles
and occupied 90, inhabited places, includ-
ing Novo-Alexandrovsk, 35 miles west
of Melitopol, a third of the way to Kher-
son, the railhead crossing which the
enemy would use in getting his troops
out of the Crimea.
Further:
The enemy is still retreating under the V
Red Array blows and suffering enormous
losses in man-power and material.
South-west of Dnepropetrovsk advances
of from four to nine miles were recorded,
together with a further advance for an
unspecified distance at Krivoi Rog, and
one of four to six miles north-east of
Vitebsk, north of the Smolensk sector.
Armored counter-attacks in the Krivoi
Rog sector were repulsed with heavy
losses, and “in one sector an entire Ger-
man battalion was either killed or taken
prisoner.” The enemy was retreating
everywhere, abandoning artillery, mortars,
ammunition and other equipment. The
toll of German tanks on October 26 in
all sectors —there were six battles going
on —was given as 42 and of ’planes 49,
On October 29 the Red Army reported
advances of three to 12 miles south-east
of the lower reaches of the Dnieper; the
capture of several inhabited planes south-
west of Dnepropetrovsk; an advance of
three to five miles north-east of Vitebsk
to within about 18 miles of that city, and
the destruction of 25 enemy tanks and
32 ’planes.
It was added that 3000 Germans had
been killed on Thursday in the fighting
area south-east of the Dnieper and 1500
south-west of Dnepropetrovsk. There
the river Makraya-Sura was forced by
the Red Army, and “large booty” was
captured, including 350 truckloads of war
materials, 92 guns and 47 mortars. In
the Krivoi Rog sector there was again
heavy fighting, and in one sector alone
the Germans lost 800 men killed. The
Germans again reported fierce fighting
with slight Russian advances on the Meli-
topol front.
The Russians at the week-end had
taken Genichevsk, at the base of the
Tongue of Arabat, on the Azov Sea, and
were later within 15 miles of the Perekop
Isthmus, the gateway to the Crimea.
Trap?
A press summary at the end of the
week agreed that Stalin was engaged in
forging a great trap in which 750,000 to
1,000,000 Germans were awaiting en-
closure. In January and February fol-
lowers of this theory believed that there
were’ only 250,000 of the enemy in the
area between the Azov Sea and Isyum,
Features of the official reports are that,
while fierce fighting is mentioned fre-
quently, neither side has spoken of heavy
fighting in the south. Russian statistics
of ’plane and tank destruction sug-
gest fierce spearhead clashes by com-
paratively small forces. The rate of
advance in most sectors does not
accord with any prolonged heavy
fighting, and, though the Russians some-
times speak of the “large booty” and
“enormous losses” of German man-
power, these losses when translated into
figures become trifling beside the cap-
tures and destruction claimed in the
winter campaign. The Russians took
more booty in most Don villages than the
few guns and mortars mentioned towards
the end of the week, and the 7000 Ger-
mans killed at Dnepropetrovsk and
Dneprodzerzhinsk compare poorly with
the daily average of 7300 .claimed for 96
days on end in the winter campaign,
apart from a daily average of 3100
prisoners reported during that period.
There is no mention in official Russian
communiques of great traps. The country
over which the enemy is retreating is
made for swift movement, as 'Marshal
Budenny had Shown previously in his
retreat in 1941.
Except at the Perekop isthmus, the
retreat gap is wide, and if the German
still has many troops in the Crimea —by
no means certain —it is not because he
thinks it is a trap, but because he believes
he can hold it.
The steady momentum of the retreat
for periods of days together since the
taking of Orel and the sector-by-sector
retirement of the enemy, always at an
almost standard pace, suggest that he is
still far from demoralised. If he had
been, his front would have gone to
pieces at Mogilev, Gomel, Kiev and par-
ticularly Krivoi Rog, towards which the
Russians made a penetration of 65 miles
in four days after the Kremenchug
manoeuvre.
Each time the enemy has had sufficient
strength to stop the Russians when they
seemed by Moscow reports to have ac-
quired irresistible momentum,
The enemy concedes the enormous
reserve power of the Red Army, but any
panic which he shows is for outside con-
sumption. The winter is clamping down
on Russia. Already snow has fallen.
Within a fortnight there will be a full
changeover of conditions.
T ? , .
K 18 good to see the enemy in re .reat,
but it will be months before the terrain
captured can be of value, towns recon-
ditioned and factories rebuilt. It is only
n 9 w ?at the gram lands are being re-
tneved The Russians wi 1 secure them
too late for winter wheat sowing, and
even if it were possible the fields would
*>e little use to them in he coming trials
°f the winter, since the winter-sown
crop is usually reaped at the end of June
onwards.
. For us at least, far and away the mos
important event on the Russian front last
week was the agreement arrived at the
Three-Power Conference at Moscow In
Mr. Roosevelt s description the who e
th mg was a tremendous success.
xhere was joy in many Australian homes last
W eek at the news of the arrival of wounded
and sick war prisoners in England, but dis-
appointment, touched with pride m others, since
some grand chaps stayed behind to tend mates
j n the prison camps. Many lads came from Polish
ca mps; some were from the first batches of
prisoners taken in Greece and_ included the per-
sonnel of a hospital unit who had remained
voluntarily. Only about 40 names of Aus-
balians had been given out up to November 1,
but in the Mediterranean batches now on their
way home were 512 Australians and 383 Maon-
landers. Most of these brave fellows are badly
knocked about. Some are blind.
* * * *
In a fiery little battle between 30 E-boats and
a convoy “Jfwere
and seven damaged without the loss
Q f a British ship. H.M. cruiser Charybdis
(5450 tons) and the small destroyer Limbourne
(900 tons) had had less luck m an offensive
ofT Us h ant . charybdis was sunk by a
to rpedo, and Limbourne was so badly damaged
that she had to be destroyed by the R.N.
u.S. Navy reports two submarines missing
tbe j r c f ews- But there was compensation,
Tokyo admitted that one merchantman was
sunk and another seriously damaged, with a
loss of 30 seamen m the China Sea, on Oct. 27.
British infantry units and a number of elusive
Australians are reported by Ankara to be operat-
ing in the Balkans. There Mihailovich’s Chet-
niks and Tito’s Partisans are also operating,
but p art i san bulletins continue to allege that the
chetniks are helping the Germans,
*' hay * now wit * hdrawn from C os,
- n (he £) odecane se Islands, though they still
ho i d Leros and Samos,
* * * . . * _ ..
w °P|Sf a^s gSttte. oW?
Admiral Kincaid, an officer with a brilliant
fighting record from the Coral Sea to the Aleu-
tians. His forces occupied Kiska, where the
Jananese evacuated themselves stealthily with
aid of large su b ma rines. There is a sus-
pjcjori tfi a t a good deal of their traffic in
New Guinea waters is being carried on in the
same way.


Longer life for VALET Blades
Strop the Blade
before and
after use...
®To ensure longer service
from your Valet blades,
strop them both before and after
use . . . Two or three strokes on
the strop before putting the razor
away removes all dampness
from the cutting edge of the
blade, which otherwise would
be attacked by rust.
(2) Rub palm of
hand over strop be-
fore use to remove
dust.
(3) Keep the strop
straight, with slight
upward pressure of
hand holding razor . .
(4) Keep the handle
of the razor at right
angles to the strop.
ẁ
m. %
F£ET AC//E
AM M/Af...
<
' i
A Get Quick, Soothing
§ Relief From lodex
When long hours, unaccustomed activity and hard, hot pavements
cause excruciating foot ailments, thousands find comfort with
lodex. DIRECTIONS : Soak feet in hot, soapy water for 10 minutes
and dry thoroughly. Then gently massage
lodex into the inflamed and tender parts,
giving particular attention to the skin
between the toes.
From your “Chemist, Price 2/-.
NO-STAIN lODINE
SPORTING NOTIONS
(Conducted by "PILOT")
There were 50,000 at City Tattersall’s
meeting at Randwick on Saturday, when
the books were beaten practically from
start to finish. The tote turnover was
£123,515 15s.
Backers of Mayfowl for the A.J.C.
Derby claimed that a stronger pace for
the first mile would have enabled him
to make a race of it with Moorland.
That their contention had a lot in it was
proved in City Tattersall’s Cup, in which,
after being second to Amberspear all the
way to the straight entrance, Mayfowl
(Knox) then took charge and, first of all
stalling off Main Topic, went on to win
from It’s Funny and Marcondis in 2.11 \
against Mr. Kerry’s previous best—as
far back as 1933 —of 2.18 for Randwick.
Main Topic and Katanga were stopped
by their 9.9, and only It’s Funny really
threatened Mayfowl in the straight.
Dewar, Prince, Moondarewa, Eureka
and Grand Fils never looked like giving
trouble, and the unlucky runner was
Marcondis, who narrowly beat Gryphon
for third. Squeezed right back approach-
ing the mile post, matters were made
worse for him when he swung wide
at the turn. He did well to finish within
a length and three-quarters of the winner,
and he and Gryphon should score in
middle-distance races in the near future.
Last year It’s Funny, with 8.12, won the
Cup by a neck from Main Topic, 7.11.
Trimmer, as in the Chester Handicap
the previous week, went for an all-the-
way win in the Flying Handicap, but
Tahmoor (J. Thompson) again settled
him a furlong from home and scored by
a half-head from Fermanagh, who made
up ground all the way from the top of
the straight. Nobleman was a useful
third, and then Brueghelier and Trimmer,
while, though Hesione, Mannerheim and
Industry were fairly placed at the turn,
they had nothing to do with the finish.
Industry, who was hurdled off at the bar-
rier, did not run as well as the previous
week, and Hesione is not improving, nor
is Kingsdale. Flying Knight’s weight
had him beaten a long way from home.
Silver Flare (Hughes) led from barrier-
rise in the Two-year-old Stakes, easily
beating Silent and Invictus, who were his
nearest followers at the turn. Good Idea
(by Marconigram). and Vaucluse (by
Andrea) were fourth and fifth respec-
tively, and The Artist also showed pace
for a few furlongs. Silver Flare, who
was a 450gns. yearling, is by Marabou
from Kadhamain, by Corban from
Bonum, the latter being a daughter of
that good mare Lager.
Kookaburra (F. Shean), a hot favorite
for the first division of the Novice Handi-
cap, led as soon as the field settled down,
and was not troubled to win from Brueg-
mah and Manday Son, who did well from
the turn. Allan Veil, a smart-looking son
of Veilmond, was fourth, and Frustrate
and Marconigraph were prominent for
six furlongs.
Another favorite in Camacho (W.
Cook) won the second division of the
Novice Handicap from Peerless Lad, who
was looking dangerous in the straight
when he swerved, losing a lot of ground.
Third place went to Farewell, a daughter
of the brilliant Valicare. She will yet
win in this class. Mintage and Goya led
at the turn, and finished fourth and fifth
respectively. Among the unplaced run-
ners, Goya, Thanks America and Gold-
brook may improve during the next two
or three weeks. Camacho, who won in a
second slower time than Kookaburra
recorded, is by Beau Pere from Camargo,
by Magpie from Maltine’s Daughter.
Warlock (Bartle) did all that was ex-
pected of him in the Three-year-old Han-
dicap. His nearest attendants at the turn
were Air Lord, Highgate and Belle
Pomme, but they had no chance in the
run home, nor did Castle Frontenac or
Chinook, who finished nearest the place-
getters. Highgate and Sincerity were
second and third respectively, but War-
lock was leaving them at the winning-
post. Warlock, who is raced on lease by
his trainer, E. F. Walker, is a good adver-
tisement for the French sire Genetout.
Recent form did not warrant War
Eagl e’s favoritism for the Club Welter,
and he gave his supporters a poor run,
never being further forward than the
middle of the field for the first half-mile.
Edigram did the pacemaking, with Pan-
gold in attendance, but Faerie Queene,
ridden by veteran Bartle, was always in
a handy position, and, going to the front
a furlong from home, lasted long enough
to stall off unlucky Pinero. Haripur fin-
ished fast in fourth place, and of those
further back only Chatham’s Choice and
Pall Mall did sufficiently well to make
them again worth backing for races this
month.
* * H= *
Haros, a good-looking four-year-old
entire by Hellespont from Geyser (sire
and dam of Simmering), improved from
fourteenth in Skipton’s division of the
Caulfield Cup to win the £3OOO Moonee
Valley Cup last Saturday. Starting at
20 to 1, he led into the straight with
Neutron, and won narrowly from the
latter and Centenary. The three place-
getters are engaged in the Melbourne
Cup, but will meet stronger opposition
in that race. Heart’s Desire, fifth, dis-
appointed her backers, but it will be re-
called that she failed in the M.V. Cup
between her Caulfield and Melbourne
Cup placings last year.
Amana recorded his third w.f.a. suc-
cess this spring by an effortless win from
Sun Valley and Precept in the W. S. Cox
Plate. He started favorite at 5 to 2, ran
past the pacemaker, Tranquil Star, round-
ing the bend, and won by two lengths.
Amana has won £3305 in stakes since
being bought by W. Fink for 2100gns.
little over a year ago, and was unlucky
to strike Skipton at his best in the Caul-
field Cup. Amana was still in the Mel-
bourne Cup at the time of writing, but
it was indefinite whether he would be a
runner or be reserved for shorter races.
A four-year-old by Talking from Capris,
he would probably hold his own with any
horse in Australia up to 10 furlongs.
Lawrence, equal favorite for the Vic-
toria Derby and second favorite for the
Melbourne Cup, was injured severely
while lining up for the start of the Cox
Plate. At the time of writing it was
considered improbable he would be able
to race again this spring. Lawrence
straddled and fouled one of the dividing
rails which split the field into three sec-
tions at the barrier, and it was some
time before he could be released. He
was badly cut under the flank and groin
and lame in the off hind leg. Stewards
permitted his withdrawal from the race,
but, as he was in the starter’s hands, his
bdckers at 6 to 1 lost their money.
Despite his misfortune with Lawrence,
trainer L. Robertson still has first-class
prospects of Derby success with Simmer-
ing. No filly has won the Derby since
Frances Tressady 20 years ago, but Sim-
mering, although built on slender lines,
is a galloper well above the average, and,
according to her rider, should have won
her division of the Caulfield Cup. She
carried 31b. above w.f.a. in that race, and
it is doubtful whether any of the colts
could have done as well. Her principal
Derby rivals may be Precept and Valen-
tino, Precept has his Cox Plate third to
recommend him, but, although last at
one stage of that race, his run had finished
shortly before the winning-post. Valen-
tino (Portofino-Valoretta) was untroubled
to defeat The Bohemian in the first
Greenvale Handicap. Saturday’s win at
a mile followed his dead-heat for first
over 10 furlongs at Flemington, and he
impresses as sure to keep on improving.
Dark Felt, winner of the Moonee
Valley Cup last year, won the
Phoenix Handicap, one mile, on the
same course last Saturday. He scored
decisively from Cloudy Bay and Sir
Richard, and immediately firmed for
the Melbourne Cup, for which he
started favorite and finished fourth
a year ago. Dark Felt, however, has not
raced beyond a mile this spring, and,
although he has the opportunity of a dis-
tance run before Cup day, might not have
done a preparation solid enough for the
two-miler. >
* * * *
Skipton is now a definite favorite for
the Melbourne Cup, and if the improve-
ment shown by him in the Caulfield Cup
continues his 9.9 may not pull him up.
Still, as only Poitrel (10.0), Phar Lap
(9.12) and Peter Pan (9.10) have won
with more than that weight in the last
50 years, some bookmakers may regard
him as worth gambling against.
* * * *
The Australian Jockey Club has put
£55,000 into war loans, its contribution
to the present one being £22,000.
* * * *
Official stands at the various Sydney
courses are now patronised to a much
greater extent than in the past, and un-
fortunately the practice of standing up
and shutting out the view of spectators
in back rows is growing. At Randwick
the other day it was necessary for an
inspector to request loudly “Please keep
your seats.” A notice to that effect should
be posted everywhere.
* * * *
Racing recommenced in Adelaide last
Saturday, after a stoppage since March
of last year. There was a great crowd
at Morphettville, and most of the win-
ners were well backed. Daylight trotting
meetings in S.A. have been legalised, so
in future they and galloping meetings
will occasionally clash.
$ * ♦ ♦
Thirty-nine races have been run at
Randwick since the commencement of
this season, and sires with more than one
win are as follows: Brueghel—Active
Service, Magi, Victory Lad; Royal Step
—Flight (2), Royal Result; The Buzzard
—Katanga (2), Kookaburra ; Beau Pere—
Mayfowl, Betsa, Camacho ; Genetout —
Warlock (2), Tribal; Manitoba —Kiaree
(2), Chinook; Marconigram Mac-
Arthur, Marcondis ; Felcrag —Scaurfel,
Moorland ; Spearfelt Feltpal, Spear
Patrol; Royal Sun —Tahmoor (2); Hall
Mark —Rylstone (H). Royal Step, Hall
Mark and Spearfelt are Australian-bred.
* * * *
Hard work agrees with some horses.
Notable instances in Sydney are Mer-
rimba and Tel Asur. When the former
won the Final Handicap at the A.J.C.
meeting, equalling Mildura’s record time
at Randwick for a mile, it was his 31st
race in a little over 14 months. In a
similar period Tel Asur has also started
31 times, and he was never better than
he has recently shown himself.
Miscellaneous
Obviously heavier than the 10.91 he
was announced to weigh, Alan Westbury
carried too many guns for Alan Stewart
(10.7) at Leichhardt. After knocking
Stewart down twice in the seventh, West-
bury was declared the winner, the other
pug being a cot case. It was Westbury’s
first fight for 10 months, and his judg-
ment of distance was faulty at times,
Hoosman v. Alabama Kid, at Sydney
Stadium, revived memories of the last
Langford-McVea fight there. The Kid
floored the two-stone-heavier Hoosman
with a long right swing in the first round.
Hoosman was up before a count could
be commenced, and after the fifth his
superior reach and boxing prevailed. Re-
peatedly connecting with straight lefts
and rights, he gained a well-received de-
cision.
FOR ASCOT.
(At Rosehill.)
(Before acceptances.)
By " PILOT .”
Encourage Stakes: Night Parade,
1; Wee Laddie, 2; Earlborough, 3.
Two-year-old Stakes (colts and
geldings): Silver Flare, 1 ; Oliver,
2 ; Silent, 3.
Two-year-old Stakes (fillies): Tea
Rose, 1; White Wings, 2 ; Gipsy
Lady, 3.
Kingsford Smith Flying Handi-
cap : Fermanagh, 1 ; High Flight,
2 ; Boorchief, 3.
Ascot Handicap: Amberspear,
1 ; Gryphon, 2 ; Chatham’s Choice
or Feltpal, 3.
Bunnerong Three-year-old: Sin-
cerity, 1 ; Royal Peer, 2; Mintage,
3.
Botany Welter: Pall Mall, 1 ;
Tel Asur, 2; Edigram or Dick
Whittington, 3.
VICTORIA DERBY.
By “PILOT.”
Simmering 1
Precept 2
Valentino 2


Women's Letters
From Sydney
Sydney concertgoers were stirred by
seeing conductor Edwin McArthur in
action and listening to the fine results
he drew from the Sydney Symphony
Orchestra. The pleasant, rather studious-
looking American and his countryman,
baritone Lansing Hatfield, of the Metro-
politan Opera, had, the day before the
Town Hall concert, entertained the guests
at Government House. This was a mid-
day spot of music following a lunch in
aid of the Day Nursery Association, and
Edwin played the accompaniments on his
piano-accordion (“squeeze box” he calls
it), while Lansing sang such favorites as
“Rose Marie” and “Lonely Road.”
The concert, which aided the Austra-
lian Comforts Fund and the Dutch
Patriotic Funds, brought out Locking
that was bright, dignified and long as to
skirt. If coal-saving does not result in
a dimmed city, long dresses will once
again walk by night. All the women in
the official party wore them to the con-
cert. Host and hostess to a friendly
group of a mere 40 or so were Mayor
Bartley and his Mayoress. The Governor-
General and Lady Gowrie, Lord and
Lady Wakehurst, Consul-General for the
Netherlands Pennink and his wife, and
America’s Consul-General Palmer and
Mrs. Palmer were applauders.
From the outer corridors to the Dutch
flags draping the front of the stage and
the great bowls of red hippeastrum and
white lilies, the Town Hall looked festive.
Charm was added by the group of young
girls dressed in Dutch national costume,
from white lace cap to wooden sabot.
They were the programme sellers, and
their wares were colorful with red, white
and blue and a print in red of a Dutch
sailor. The drawing was the work of
Mrs. Gunning, wife of the Netherlands
Vice-Consul.
The Mayor and his wife spread supper
for the official party in the civic rooms.
In medieval Europe the fare might have
been candied chestnuts and champagne.
In war-time Sydney it was coffee, sand-
wiches and savories.
The best piece of news on the home
front is that a company of emergency
housekeepers is being formed. Under
the banner of the N.C.W., such organisa-
tions as the Red Cross, the Australian
Comforts Fund and the Women’s All-
National Services have grouped them-
selves into a committee presided over by
Ruby Board. This committee will adver-
tise for and register a number of women
willing to take the job of running homes
that are beset with sickness or where new
citizens of Australia are expected.
The Red Cross is interested in the
measure as it applies to the homes of sick
soldiers ; the Comforts Fund is keen on
it as it will help the wives of service men.
Incidentally, such groups formed in
country towns should be of untold value
to women of the surrounding districts —
the woman on the little farm to whom
constant help is too heavy a drain on the
family purse, but to whom a capable
, s woman in the home in times of crisis
' would take on the glory of a visiting
, angel. The C.W.A. is naturally interested
in the movement. So are the District
Nursing Association, the Society for the
Welfare of Mothers and Babies, Baby
Centres and the Crippled Chil-
?dren’s Society. Lady Wakehurst will be
the patroness, and such capable women
as Mrs. W. H. Read, Alison Player and
Elvira Lyons are office-bearers. Action
commenced on November 1 in an office
on the ground floor of Ocean House,
Martin-place.
The little house among the trees of
Phillip Park, the Children’s Library, was
inviting last Friday morning when its
friends gathered there to talk over a glow-
ing future when libraries for beginning
readers would spread, a gossamer of
faery, throughout the State. Mrs. Mathe-
son, founder of the movement, and Mrs.
Seemann were the speakers, and put the
case for feeding the child mind in con-
vincing fashion. Already the centres are
looked upon as places of delight in many
outlying suburbs and in holiday towns
like Katoomba. \
Mrs. Matheson, small and eloquent,
wants the joys of good reading and craft
work spread throughout all pountry
towns. Soon she hopes the day will come
when the small boy and girl of Wilcannia,
Nyngan and Bourke of the saffron sun-
sets will know the happiness of putting
on their own plays, of dancing their
ballets, of moulding small toys and mak-
ing good companions for life of the
heroes and heroines of our literature.
Craft work done by ,the children of
Phillip Park, Gordon, Katoomba and
other centres was on show. Here the lion
and the lamb kept amiable company and
the bunny was at rest.
Lady Wakehurst, like a touch of spring
in her polka-dotted linens and upturned
Baku hat, made a crisp and sympathetic
speech. Ruth Bedford, Janet Stephen,
Mrs. Wilfred Fairfax, Mrs. Waterhouse,
the Harry Tighe couple, Mrs. Coghlan,
of the C.W.A., Mrs. Greatorex, of Gor-
don, artist Jo Collins and “Elizabeth,” of
the A.B.C. Argonauts, were among those
who swore adherence to the cause. But
books, books and still more books are
needed. Who will help?
The golden wedding of Sidney McCure
and Angus and Robertson’s was cele-
brated in the right way and place last
Friday. Sydney’s popular librarian held
informal levee in the midst of the shelves
of red-backed books of the Sydney Book
Club. To mark the milestone of 50
years’ service (Mr. McCure started as
a small messenger boy of 14) the direc-
tors dropped in and handed out eulogistic
speech and a cheque for 100 guineas.
Cfianges in styles both of his clients’
clothes and the books they choose have
been noted with lively interest by this
observer, who in his youth was besieged
by young ladies arriving in carriages for
the novels of Mrs. Henry Wood, and
not so long after by the beginning young
businesswoman who looked like a Dana
Gibson girl asking for such daring
romances as The Garden of Allah. Then
came the Great War and The Sheik.
Today well, today there’s another
devastating war, and women are plugging
the holes in the dykes caused by absence
of man-power. Today women are as
serious in their reading as men, if not
more so: biographies, war books, poli-
tics and, of course, the perennial thriller
just for a literary lapse. Sidney McCure,
urbane and knowledgable, with an unerr-
ing instinct for what the public is going
to like tomorrow, was still receiving con-
gratulations and good wishes when the
shutters were going up on Friday after-
noon.
Diana Leitch, attractive only daughter
of the Tom Leitches, of Cremorne, has
just announced her engagement to Lieut.
Henry Macphillamy, whose mother is
Mrs. Macphillamy, of Manly, and whose
father was M. C. Macphillamy, of Waroo,
Forbes. The young soldier has seen ser-
vice in the Middle East, and is at present
in New Guinea. Diana was till a short
time ago a member of A.A.M.W.S., and
was stationed at Warwick (Q.), and it
was there that the romance began. She
is now helping the Wool Commission to
carry on. The ring is a sapphire and
diamond cluster. Photograph by May
Moore.
Salute to Sister Evaline Jones, who died
recently. She was a member of Queen
Alexandra’s Imperial Military Nursing
Service Reserve, saw service in France
for three of the 1914-18 years, and was
decorated with the Royal Red Cross for
her fine work. After the war she was
head sister of the Bodington Sanatorium
for Returned Soldiers. Later she became
an officer of the Child Welfare Depart-
ment, and was 'with it for many years.
The Inter-State Conference that takes
the place of the three-yearly convention
is now raging at the Y.W.C.A. It will
continue to do so till Friday afternoon.
The conference was opened by Lady
Gowrie at a lunch at Admiralty House
on Monday. In the afternoon Lady
Wakehurst was present during the talks
at the Y.W. Lady Gowrie attended the
Tuesday-morning discussion, and in the
afternoon Lady Wakehurst entertained
the conferrers at Government House. To-
day there are a lunch in the main hall of
the Y.W. in honor of inter-State dele-
gates and a tea party for the same dele-
gates given .by the Reading lady.
An engagement of the week that has
caused a little flutter is that of Gloria
Moore-Cosgrave and Lieut. Henri
Moquette, of the Royal Netherlands Air
Force. Gloria is the only daughter of
Lt.-Col. L. M. Cosgrave, Military
to the High Commissioner for Canada.
The first meeting of a movement that
may prove of great service to the blind
not only in this State but throughout Aus-
tralia was held at the Y.M.C.A. on Wed-
nesday evening. Colin loseph, of Strath-
field, who has been thinking on the sub-
ject of establishing a guide-dog centre
(called, the “Seeing Service in
America), outlined what was being done
in other countries to help thousands of the
sightless to greater freedom of movement
through the aid of specially-trained dogs.
The female Alsatian seems to take most
kindly to the task of being her master’s
eyes, and 90 per cent, of the dogs used
in America for the purpose are of this
breed.
From Melbourne
The kind of weather that sends down
hail on a girl who has just left her only
topcoat at the cleaner’s under the delusion
that winter was over can’t be sufficiently
inveighed against, but apparently from
the point of view of roses it’s just perfect.
Not since the oldest inhabitant was a wee
boy have Melbourne roses bloomed better
than this spring, and comparisons of size,
number of blooms per tree and general
pulchritude make perfect strangers en-
thusiastically friendly in cityward trams.
Nature, it would seem, will have none
of this war-time austerity and drabness
in her domain. And it’s not only in
Victoria. Letters coming from England
said that the spring after the Old Dart’s
worst year of war was the most lushly
beautiful for years.
Jean Alexander, here pictured, looks
at everything with an eye for color and
rhythm inherited from a ballet-loving
family, and that art with its accessories
of costume and decor has been her big
enthusiasm since childhood days. For
some years she’-s been one of the pillars
of the National Theatre Movement and
previously was in charge of the calis-
thenics section of one of Melbourne’s
physical culture institutions. Though par-
ticularly interested in choreography, she
has had much success in creating cos-
tumes for opera and stage plays.
The presence of two British missions,
one military, the other press, has occa-
sioned a round of receptions, austere, of
course, but nevertheless savoring of the
heartness with which the ties of Empire
kinship were recognised in the good old
days. The military mission was wel-
comed by the city fathers last week, and
the University unleashed some honorary
degrees for members of the press dele-
gation. There were many other friendly
entertainments, including a tour of farms
and factories for the newspaper men.
Two vans presented by Brighton Host-
esses’ Auxiliary to the Air Minister (now
on their way to R.A.A.F. stations up
north) are miniature theatres on wheels.
The vehicles, which are staffed by wel-
fare officers, are fitted with multi-purpose
wireless equipment, including broadcast-
ing and receiving sets. A let-down side
provides a ready-made stage on which
camp talent can do its stuff, and a gramo-
phone with “pick-up” apparatus can
supply musical accompaniments if neces-
sary. The vans, which were handed over
by the auxiliary with mayoral good
wishes at the Brighton Town Hall, should
make life in the small stations the camp
touring cos. miss a good deal more endur-
able.
Wool Board officials did a tour of the
town last week acting as cicerones to
representatives of several women’s
organisations. They pointed out which
fabrics on display at various shops were
wool-and-something and which were pure
wool. Another point made was the
identification of woollen goods made in
Australian factories which are being dis-
played as imported stulf by retailers.
Idea was to help women buyers to recog-
nise pure-wool fabrics and to make them
realise that any notion that only imported
goods can be of good quality is absurd.
The discussion about a Truth in
Fabrics Bill, which the woolgrowers are
urging upon the Parliamentarians, is one
in which women should be allowed a
predominant say ; they are the clothes-
buyers of the community. The average
woman’s reaction to the laments of wool
interests that they’re worried about the
competition of ersatz fabrics is to re-
tort: “Show us a good range of pure
wool stuffs and we’ll eat ’em up.” The
wool trade seems to be asleep. Why
doesn’t it shout from the housetops the
merits of those summer-weight processed
woollens which look like cotton, it’s true,
but wear like iron? Only one woman in
a hundred seems to know that they exist
or. is able to pick them out.
Widdecombe Fair had nothing on the
Paddy’s Market at the Town Hall on
Thursday. The fat pig weight-guessing
competition just inside the door brought
a breath of the farm to the nose, and a
true market buzz, punctuated by selling
cries in the traditional manner, rose from
the main hall. Among the most vocal
of the stall-holders was Mrs, C. H.
Tutton, Alberta Club president,’ who kept
a crowd about her both by hailing new-
comers with “Model hats and dead cats
for two bob!” The “dead cats” were a
collection of very aged furs, and Mrs.
Tutton wore the “model hats” one after
another to encourage buyers.
Teen-age Margaret Campbell, the Lady
Mayoress’s younger daughter, was help-
ing with a pet enclosure which gave
its guardians plenty of lively moments.
Kittens placed in huge wire crates soon
discovered they could squeeze through
the meshes and went trotting off in the
forest of feet. Goldfish were easier to look
after, but at 7s. 6d. each they weren’t
being rushed. Incredible though it may
seem, the demand for guinea pigs out-
ran the supply.
Another shop whose trading will help
patriotic funds is the “all-in”war workers’
venture at the Oriental, which is to open
on December 1. Part of the stock of this
shop will consist of things made for a
competition the workers have been
running, the prize for the most attractive
saleable article being five guineas.
Second-hand hats, magnificently re-
newed, should be a draw, as they’re
couponless, and wood flowers and
pottery, which generally command many
buyers, are on the list, too. Parents who
have awakened to the fact that Christmas
is coming should be interested in a good
array of toys.
Models of the hospital ship Centaur
will soon be in shops and on patriotic
stalls to give a lift to the Centaur War
Nurses’ Memorial Scholarship Fund,
which is to perpetuate the memory of the
many nurses who lost their lives when
the vessel was torpedoed. The models,
which are perfect representations of the
ship, are in two forms, cardboard and
wooden. The latter go to donors of
£1 or more, the former to those who sub-
scribe a florin or over.
Miss C. G. Fairhall, who is to give an
address about the Papuans at the after-
noon party which the Lady Mayoress is
giving for the Centaur Fund, knows her
subject pretty well, as she has spent nine
years in the territory as a nurse with a
medical missionary group. Recently
forced to leave the A.A.N.S. because of
ill health she’s hoping to get back to
Hubert Murray Land and her work. Her
sphere of operations was around the
Moresby district, and she spent five years
on a near-by island caring for a leper and
T.B. colony for natives.
A new answer to the “Where shall we
lunch?” question is being discovered by
increasing numbers of people who do the
office work of the services in the vicinity
of the Botanic Gardens. Considered by
Melburnians a civic Eden, the tree-filled
acreage hides in its heart an excellent
luncheon room, where attractive food
may be eaten at little green tables within
bread-throwing distance of the swans.
Those who cherish youthful recollec-
tions may recall being fed on ice-creams
at those same little tables by kindly aunts.
The glades and lakeside nooks now fre-
quently shelter in the early afternoon a
brace or so of relaxing brigadiers.
Doting parents passing the bunches
of asparagus which arrived on street
stalls and shop counters last week have
been heard to speculate “I wonder if
that’s some Mary picked?” Picking of
the stuff has been part of the woman’s
job this year, though those that do it
say that the way the spinal column feels
after the first few days of constant bend-
ing is just terrible. There is, however,
the compensation that most Victorian
asparagus grows in attractive seaside
spots.


Divorce Notices.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW SOUTH
WALES— In Divorce.
TO LAURA MAVIS CHATPIELD late of Inverell
TAKE NOTICE that LESLIE MONTAGUE CHAT-
FIELD has filed a Petition for Divorce No. 2268 of
1913 on the ground of desertion without just cause
or excuse for three (3) years and upwards If you
wish to defend you may enter an appearance at the
Divorce Office Supreme Court King Street Sydney
by the 31st December 1943 and obtain a copy of the
petition without charge from WILLIAM H. CORD-
INGLEY Solicitor 77 Castlereagh Street Sydney.—
(1.5.) C. K. BODY, Registrar in Divorce.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW SOUTH
WALES — In Divorce.
TO MARJORIE JUNE KERR late of Sydney.—
TAKE NOTICE that ALBERT LESLIE KERR has
filed a Petition in Divorce No. 212 of 1943 on the
ground of desertion without just cause or excuse for
three years and upwards If you wish to defend you
may enter an appearance at the Divorce Office
Supreme Court King Street Sydney on or before the
First day of December 1943 and obtain a copy of
the petition without charge from PHILIP N. ROACH
Solicitor 160 Castlereagh Street Sydney.— (l.s.)
O. K. BODY, Registrar.
IN THE SUPREME COURT 0F NEW SOUTH
WALES-— ln Divorce.
TO HUGH ALEXANDER THOMAS ROGERS late of
Macquarie Fields.—TAKE NOTICE that LORRINIE
MAY ROGERS has filed a Petition for Divorce No.
2628 of 1943 on the grounds of desertion without
Just cause or excuse for three years and upwards
If you wish to defend you may enter an appearance
at the Divorce Office Supreme Court House King
Street Sydney by the 3rd January 1944 and obtain
a copy of the petition without charge from C. P.
WHITE Solicitor 160 Castlereagh street Sydney.—•
(1.5.) 0. K. BODY, Registrar.
WARNING SIGNS!
Even Slightly Bleeding Gums May Mean -
PYORRHEA
Do your gums ever bleed ? Are
they sore, tender to touch ?
Then watch out—Pyorrhea may
be starting trouble.
If you don’t take action at once
—it often leads to soft, flabby,
shrinking gums and eventual
loss of teeth.
Guard Against Pyorrhea
This Tested Forhan Way.
Every morning and night, mas-
sage your gums and brush your
teeth with Forhan’s Toothpaste
the only dentifrice containing
Anti-Pyor-
rhea astringent.
Forhan’s cleans dull teeth to
their natural sparkling bright-
ness—helps remove acid film
that so often starts tooth de-
cay.
Start using Porhan’s TO-DAY.
Note the difference in the bril-
liant lustre of your teeth and—
equally important—the healthy
firmness of your gums.
ẃ
I ""■I ■
Does BOTH Jobs Cleans Teeth-—Saves Gums
« • •
IN THE COUNTRY'S SERVICE
rsiH
JT
WS
X
s
/-t
3»
• &
r v *
AT YOUR— SERVICE
vs.\
j!«
3*
s
PS
The major proportion of all Masonite produc-
tion to-day goes to war uses. And so it will
remain until the war is won. When that time
comes, there’ll be all the Masonite you need for
building and re-modelling your post-war home.
Until then . . . war needs must come first.
*
MASONITE PRESDWOOD...TEMPERED PRESDWOOD...TEMPRTILE...QUARTRBOARD DE LUXE
Manufactured by MASONITE CORPORATION (AUST.) LTD. from wood fibre.
Distributors: THE COLONIAL SUGAR REFINING CO. -LTD.
(Building Materials Division)
SYDNEY . . . MELBOURNE . . . BRISBANE . . . ADELAIDE . . .PERTH
INVEST YOUR SAVINGS IN WAR BONDS FOR POST-WAR USE
SMOKE-OH!
“Old Harland, the governing director, had
a preference for young, blonde secretaries. But
even the critical Creswell had to admit that
Harland’s two secretaries were goo ones.”
— Novel.
Possibly even goo goo.
4* 4" *l* “P
“One glance at Mrs. Fortescue’s car was
sufficient to convince Gerald that her claim was
true —it had been hardly used.” — Short story.
His eye must have fallen on the con-
certina’d mudguards.
“Job for Hollywood Script Men; Murder
Story.”— Film magazine heading.
They’ll do that easily enough.
❖ *i* 4* ❖
“We sympathise with you in your predica-
ment, but only a woman would have to be
traced.” — Weekly paper.
But a man can be easily drawn.
“One of the most impressive jazz photographs
I have seen is the full-page study of Pee Wee
Russell in this same essay. Pee Wee has been
caught in the middle of a solo. His face looks
agonised as though in pain.”— “Tempo.”
Sounds as though the photographer
snapped a member of the audience by
mistake.
•I* 4* 4*
“Vegetables on Vacant Blocks.” — “Sun.”
That’ll be a change from the usual
flowers on flappers’ hats.
■4*
“Their uniform is very picturesque, and has
remained practically unchanged for centuries.”
— “S.M.H.”
What! Not even an occasional clean-
ing and pressing?
“Many people have the idea that the applause
at the end of concerts is just a record played
for all such occasions.” — Radio journal.
That’s just claptrap.
“The little girl soon made it evident that she
intended everyone to know this was her home,
and she had some importance as the only child
of an M.P.”— Woman’s paper.
Not only was she a member of the
family but she was the family of the
member.
4* 4* 4*
“The prosecutor put a pair of stockings on
the court table and placed the bag on top of
them. Then he inserted a hand in the bag,
pulled back a zip fastener along its base, pulled
in the stockings, pushed back the zip fastener
and lifted the bag. The stockings had dis-
appeared.”—Sydney “Sun."
Strangely enough, the table was still
there.
❖ 4*
“Hairdressers’ shops raided.” — “Argus.”
There were some close shaves.
Dialectic.
Plato —or was it Pluto ? —once declared,
“In the eternal flux of time and-space
Sense wars with Nonsense.” Later, having
aired
This vital view, he died. But now we
face
A different situation: life and mind,
Space, matter, time and fate, and plenty
more.
Have utterly convinced the undersigned
That Sense is Nonsense. How then can
they war ?
T. W. N.
Noblesse Oblige.
“I think you ought to be ashamed of
yourself. Must you always endeavor to
humiliate your wife?” demanded Maria.
“Humiliate you?” I asked, puzzled.
“Yes, your speech tonight when you
returned thanks for your election at the
club was a deliberate insult to me,”
she stormed.
“But I didn’t even mention your name,”
I protested.
“That’s just it,” Maria fumed. “1
wouldn’t have gone to the wretched meet-
ing only I did expect you to say that you
owed all your success to your wife, like
those politicians always say at women’s
meetings.”
“But you made a fuss when I men-
tioned about accepting any office at all,
and you sneered ‘Patriotism fiddlesticks! ’
when I said it was my duty. You”
“I don’t care if I did,” said Maria
defiantly. “The least a wife can expect
when her husband is made a treasurer or
something is to hear him say publicly
that everything he is must be attributed
to his wife’s encouragement and help.”
“But, hang it all”'
“You needn’t start apologising,” broke
in Maria loftily. “I know you well
enough by now, Aitchem, to be aware
that whatever you’d say wouldn’t be
sincere !”
H. M.
Contest.
The ruses he uses
At first she refuses
To swallow. She muses.
Accuses, excuses.
The marriage date chooses.
So much for his ruses ;
Hers win, and he loses.
J. B. C.
The Muse Bemused.
“Edwin McArthur, the celebrated musician
who has been conducting symphony orchestras
while in Australia, plays the piano-accordion.”
It was Tontolini who first humanised
the symphony orchestra. On one occasion
Deville Gardus, the eminent critic, had
complained that the adagio amoroso
movement from the great Boisterus Sym-
phony in G Minor had reminded him
only of a South African sunset on a
windy late-winter day; had it been
played with the embonpoint, the Geber-
wesselschaftwbhr which the exquisite
delicacy of such a piece of writing de-
manded, it would have conjured up the
memory of a sweetly executed late cut
from a ball floated with a low trajectory
on the off stump.
Recognising the justice of the criticism,
Tontolini introduced seven soprano
mouth organs, a gazooka and a
bagpipe-jew’s-harp cross, with a com-
pressed-air plant operating sostenuto
from behind a screen. The immedi-
ate success resulting from this and
the fact that he used an electrically-
operated baton, which chopped 7min.
12sec. off the symphony’s running-time,
inspired Tontolini to organise a lemon-
sucking contest in conjunction with his
rendering of the tremendous Sauerkraut
Sonata. There were necessary interrup-
tions while the brasses and wood winds
emptied out their instruments ; neverthe-
less, even Deville Gardus was moved to
admit that the innovation had imparted
a new liquid quality to the great work.
It was a red-letter day in the musical
world when Talcolm Stargent, conduct-
ing the Philemupfia Symphony Orchestra,
and bent on giving music which would
appeal to the masses, appeared in purple
tights and a mask and with his hajir in
rows of bobby pins. He mounted the ros-
trum with 14 batons and took 20 minutes
to select one. Then, standing on his
hands, he conducted, holding the baton
between the big and first toes of his right
foot while he blew the concerto part of
“Yes, We Have No Bananas” with comb
and tissue paper.
Sir Dammus Speechem made a point
of hauling his squeeze-box out of the
pocket of his tails and pepping it up
when the orchestra wasn’t orching as well
as it might. Sir Dammus’s one-man-band
obbligato to the soloist in Hummdinger’s
great Concerto in D, in which he used a
kazoo, a tin whistle, a musical saw and
a wheezing pair of bellows, always
brought the house down. And who will
ever forget the skill with which he
answered a late-comer’s noisy entry by
giving a blast on his special blurtophone,
which reproduced a raspberry perfectly?
Bo.


THE OTHER FELLOW'S MIND
The contributor placed first is paid
4;id. per lisle; all others 2%d. per line.
Money in War and Peace
Scullin, Senator Cameron and
other politicians have recently been
saying that money can and should
be raised and spent as easily by
Government in peace-time as it is in war-
time ; the phrase “What is physically
possible is financially possible” is
trotted out.
The position can be illustrated as fol-
lows: Suppose a prosperous grazier has
splendid flocks and herds and has saved
money for a trip abroad, erection of a
new house and other desirable improve-
ments. A sudden pestilence puts in
danger his sheep and cattle as well as his
family. From sheer necessity and in
order to stamp out the disease (Hitler-
ism) he gets the help of neighbors
and friends (Allies), spends all his sav-
ings, draws on his friends’ resources
(lease-lend), mortgages his property (taxa-
tion and loans) and obtains funds
on his promissory notes (Treasury bills).
All this outlay eventually leads to the
saving of his family and flocks and herds
(victory).
But how can he go ahead with his
holiday expenditure, building outlay and
other things, except as he builds up
resources from income after paying for
the cost of loans incurred and towards
their redemption? Is the nation in an
essentially different position from an
individual?— Student (W.A.).
Australia and the Post-war World
When the Crusades to the Holy Land
were being led into glorious though
futile combat by Richard the Lion-
Hearted, Britons were first introduced to
the luxury products of the East. The
returning soldiers brought with them
beautiful carpets, glorious silks, coffee,
spices and fruits, which bred in them
contempt for their previous simple way
of living.
Australian soldiers returning from
foreign countries will not bring back
new products from the places they have
visited —modern trade has long since ex-
cluded that possibility. But it is to be
hoped that they will flood the country
with new ideas and wake it up to what
goes on in other parts of the world.
If Australia is to take her rightful
place in the post-war world and com-
pete with other countries in the
secondary industries that the Govern-
ment has promised us will be established,
it would be as well if Australians de-
veloped some of the industry of the
Italians and the audacity of the
Americans.
A capacity for gambling, playing
cricket and football or swimming will not
be of any great use in a world of people
fighting for their very existence. We
have shown of what we are capable in
war. Let’s see if we can do as well in
peace.—S. L. B. (Q.).
The Dead Heart
I, too, liked “Agricola’s” article (B.
8/ 9 / ’43), also the words of K. Bowd (B.
13/10/’43) and endorse their praise of
lon Idriess’s idea for the water conser-
vation and irrigation of Australia’s sup-
posedly “Dead Heart.” Dr. Bradfield
also put forward a plan.
The opening up of the interior would
undoubtedly increase our national wealth.
Minerals are there in abundance. It is
well known how such desert-like lands
spring into life and flower after a shower
of rain. Imagine the effect with a regular
rainfall or even with a greater humidity
causing a greater dewfall!
The rivers rising west of the Dividing
Range and north of the Queensland
border, as well as some from the Barkly
Tableland, flow towards the Centre. The
logical thing then is to make these rivers
flow once again. Even if they ran
only during floodtime and the waters
were held above ground in gorges, valleys,
tanks and wells the amount of evapora-
tion caused by the heat of the sun would
reduce the temperature by the presence
of moisture, thereby causing a higher
dewfall. In time, as more water was
stored, the increased evaporation would
result in rain which would fall and return
to the stored water.
The diversion of part of the coastal-
river flow by damming and channelling
is physically practicable, and there is not
one reason why finance should not be
made available.-—R. B. K. (Q.).
S.A. Achievements
South Australia will this year finish
its big water scheme, whereby a
line from Morgan, on the Murray, across
to Port Augusta and down the west coast
to Whyalla will carry a continuous flow
of 1,200,000,000 gallons to Whyalla,
900.000. to northern parts and
150.000. to the Commonwealth rail-
ways. The pipeline is about 235 miles
long, used 40,000 tons of steel and
100,000 tons of cement and will probably
cost over £3,000,000, but what a future
it opens up for the country north of
Adelaide! It’ll be possible for the towns
to have sewerage and all hands to have
ample water, two lacks that made those
parts frequently uncomfortable.
Four pumps will lift the water from
Morgan to Hanson, whence it will gravi-
tate via storage reservoirs to Gulnare,
Georgetown and Hughes’s Gap to Winni-
nowie, the Port and Lincoln Gap on the
way to Whyalla. If you want to see what
it looks like, get your map of S.A. and
trace the route. It’ll also show what it
means to have an outfit like B.H.P.
operating in a country, for without
B.H.P. there’d have been no transforma-
tion of Whyalla—the greatest and most
successful experiment in decentralised
industry on the record —and no pipeline.
—Hamley (S.A.).
“Quick, Bill"s just showing Aunt Agatha how he cleared those Japs out
of the foxhole!”
Waste in War Production
In the U.S.A. there is a committee
whose job is to watch and check waste-
ful expenditure. Headed by Senator
Truman, it has a very small staff, and acts
immediately by simple and direct
methods. Already it has saved millions
of dollars.
Australia and M.L. rely on Auditors-
General. But their job is to inquire
afterwards to see that money has been
spent legally. Their strictures are tabled
long after the mischief is done.
What is required in Australia is a
watchdog like Uncle Sam’s, one with
wide powers to probe into contracts,
workmanship and waste. The saving that
could be effected in service departments
alone would be worth while. ' And the
committee should have the power to
close down on bureaucrats run wild.—
Tinopai (M.L.).
The Tax on the Tax
Income tax has long been regarded by
social reformers as the most powerful
weapon whereby a non-violent redistri-
bution of incomes may be achieved,
possessing, as it does, the merit of being
practically the only tax the incidence of
which cannot be passed on by the
assessed person.
It was strange, therefore, to see the
South Caulfield (Vic.) branch of the Aus-
tralian Labor party agreeing to a motion
requesting the Treasurer to allow income
tax paid in any year to be a deduction
from that year’s income in order to
arrive at the amount which would bear tax.
A solitary speaker vainly argued that
the small man could only lose by the
adoption of such a principle ; that the
higher-income groups who pay a larger
proportion of their income in tax would
benefit at the expense of the lower
groups ; that the single man would bene-
fit at the expense of the family man ; and
that, in any case, as the Government
decides the amount of revenue to be col-
lected by taxation each year and then
decides on the means, any relief granted
by the concession asked for would be
offset by an increase in the rates of tax
payable.
All to no avail! The “what’s-in-it-for-
me” mentality prevailed, the thought of
“another deduction in my income-tax
return” was too strong, and the motion
was carried almost unanimously.
W.J. B. (Vic.).
R.A.A.F. Ranking
I, too, am disgusted with the ranking of
the Air Force.
Take the case of my two sons, profes-
sional men in peace-time. Each was a
member of a bomber crew. One, a pilot,
wrote proudly from England: "1 have
had 20 months of hard training and
study. It was worth it. 1 am given com-
mand of a lovely Lancaster with a crew
of six under me.” Fancy—commander
of a craft that cost £70,000 ranked as a
sergeant and, as such, required to salute
a wing-commander who may never have
been in the air.
It rankles with me. But, after all, it
may not matter much. This boy, on his
sixth operational flight over Germany,
gave his life, as his elder brother had
given his, 15 months before, off Sumatra.
They all rank the same before God, I
suppose, but it might soothe one’s pride
if these boys were given a commission
posthumously.—T. P. M. (Vic.).
Wool Advertising
It is more than time that something
more practical was done. During this
war we have a first-class opportunity of
advertising wool by providing woollen
goods and putting emphasis on their
quality. Most of us in the army have
been supplied with khaki woollen socks
and stockings by our families and rela-
tions, and we know that the wool in
them has meant the surrender of badly-
needed clothing coupons.
We appreciate these home-made socks
both for their comfort and the spirit in
which they are sent, but it is exasperat-
ing and infuriating to find that, after the
socks have been washed half a dozen
times or have been soaked with perspira-
tion, they shrink to such an extent that
they can no longer be worn. If the
knitters of these socks realised this they
wouldn’t expend money and coupons on
anything except unshrinkable wool.
The point is, however, that this shrink-
age aspect should have been handled by
the Australian Wool Board or some
responsible body years ago. There are
processes for shrinkproofing wool; in
fact, an excellent one was evolved just
before the war by two young C.S.I.R.
chemists in Sydney. What has happened
to it? As it is, we have thrown away
an unparalleled opportunity to teach the
value of wool because even in hot
climates where a lot of footslogging has
to be dope I prefer thick woollen socks
to anything else.
Any concern turning out knitting wool
that is not shrinkproof should be made
an example of, and from the viewpoint
of the army it should be made an offence
to sell khaki wool that is not unshrink-
able.— P. B. B. I (N.S.W.).
The Customer Is Never Right
If I am lucky enough to be numbered
among the living when this war is over
I’ll be very interested in the tactics of
shops that didn’t appreciate civilian
trade during war-time. I realise that
storekeepers are hard put to it these days
to meet the demands of the public, and
I am complaining not about shortages
but about the service from behind the
counter.
For months past now my shopping
troubles have included: (1) Standing
waiting at a counter while the assistants
yarn to each other or to Allied service
men ; (2) being told that the item I re-
quire is out of stock when I saw it in the
windows on my way in (this has happened
to me twice); (3) a general air of
“don’t care whether you buy or not.”
Maybe your job is pretty safe now,
Miss Shopgirl, but after the war, when
your employer will expect you to show
good figures in your docket-book, what
then? How will you bring back those
customers you did your best during the
war years to discourage? — Toni (Q.).
Small Beer
Some people drink for the effect,
but a lot of others go to the pubs be-
cause they are the only friendly and
companionable places in cities.
Unfortunately, the only beer they can
get is so strong in alcoholic content that
before they know where they are they
may be half-seas over. If the Govern-
ment told the brewers that if they
brewed a weaker beer the enormous ex-
cise would be lowered, and if the price of
the small beer was fixed at, say, three-
pence, these socially-minded individuals
would be catered for, and there would be
an immediate decline in drunkenness.
Small beer was served for centuries
to the boys at great schools like
Eton and Stoneyhurst, and didn’t do
them any harm. A lot of the men
who helped to win the Battle for Britain
were brought up on small beer. Small
beer was also served to the boys in some
Australian colleges up to recent times,
and there is a hoary old tradition to
justify it, for small beer was the family
drink in England until that abominable
Asiatic potion tea was introduced.
All travellers have noted that there is
much more drinking but far less
drunkenness in Europe than there is in
Australia, and in almost every European
country varieties of beer are available,
and the weaker is the most favored. If
the Government put a small tax on weak
beer and a bigger tax on strong beer
it could get the same result in a few
months and not even lose any revenue
in the process. Even the wowsers could
drink small beer. In fact, they might end
up by preferring it to tea. — Strict Veg.
(Vic.).
A Blast Against Andy
The great influence of your paper and
the strength of my desire that it should
not do Australia an injustice must be my
apology for criticising your judgment in
printing Jolliffe’s cartoons of the man on
the land (Andy) and his wife (Ma).
The hut with the bark roof and logs
to weight it down is typical of thousands
of first homes on stations and selections ;
but had they been occupied by men as
indolent and brainless as Andy there
would still be no better homes away from
the cities. Such loud-mouthed dolts do
exist and live in such huts. They are
not, however, typical, but the reverse.
One of the problems facing Australia
after the war will be to induce rural
workers to leave the amenities of the city
and return to the land. That hovel of
Andy’s won’t help.— Prop (Q.).
Enclosing Cheque
I am enclosing a cheque for Is. 7d.,
proceeds of the sale of five bushels of
peas. Pass it on to the secretary of the
Fund for Distressed Coalminers.
I am sorry the cheque is so small, but
with the reduction in train services, conse-
quent on the coal shortage, the peas, a
top line at packing, were buried for a
considerable time beneath a mass of other
freight flung holus-bolus into a dog-box,
and at auction realised next to nothing
as a result of sweating. If by any
chance the secretary of the Fund for Dis-
tressed Coalminers is unable to use this
contribution, you may pass it on to the
typist for her pet charity or give it to
the office-boy to buy milk for the cat. —
Contractor (N.S.W.).
[Cheque received and sent to Red Cross.]
Daylight Saving and the Children
As an experienced teacher I can assure
“D.M.” (B. 20/10/’43) that daylight
saving has a definitely good effect on
children. Those “accustomed to retire
at a certain hour almost from birth” will
in the hottest months of the year get a
little extra sleep because the heat and
glare of sunrise to waken them too early
is delayed ; this means that they come
fresher to their work, and go home before
the day’s heat has tired them out.
Objections to daylight saving are
raised only by those whose brain-power
is not quick enough to adapt itself
speedily to change, no matter how sane,
healthy and desirable. If the Govern-
ment had backbone enough to enforce
d.s. for, say, five years, all the God’s
time, lost-hour, exhausted-all-day moaners
would yell their fury to the skies at the
end of that period at any suggestion of
going back to the old dispensation,—
K. I. A. (N.S.W.).


TRAIN NOW FOR YOUR
POST-WAR JOB
What are YOU doing to protect yourself against unemployment after
the war? As Australia swings back to peace-time conditions thousands
released from the Services will have to be placed in work. The Govern-
ment of the day can be depended upon to assist, but whether you will
be able to keep yourself and your family in the way they are accustomed
depends on you . . . the amount you can earn will depend on your value
to the community. NOW—when work is plentiful and pay is good—
is the time to equip yourself with an extra trade. You can find no better
profession in which to qualify than in Diesel operating, for all over the
world more and more Diesel engines will be placed in use. Before the
war, a great swing to Diesel engines had begun. After the war this
swing will gain added momentum, opening up thousands of well-paid
positions. Diesel Operators not only earn big money, they enjoy pleasant
conditions and the respect of all the community—the respect due to the
man who has specialised knowledge.
*1
p °w>
Of
iliii
*
s ■ ;
Mil
1 ■ •■ ■
MEN OF ALL SERVICES ARE
TRAINING IN SPARE-TIME—ARE YOU?
In the fighting services—land, sea and air, and in war industries—
ambitious men with an eye to the future are devoting part of their
free hours for another big offensive. They’re equipping themselves
with training to do their part in winning the peace as efficiently as
today they are winning the war.
THE DIESEL ENGINEERING COLLEGE WILL TRAIN
YOU AS A DIESEL OPERATOR IN YOUR SPARE TIME;
WHEREVER YOU ARE.
You don’t need any previous knowledge of engineering, and you
don’t need any high educational standard. The Diesel Engineering
course teaches you the whole subject in your own home, covering
both transport Diesel (tractors, buses, etc.) and stationary Diesel
(mining and other power plants). The course has been prepared
with the co-operation of leading Diesel authorities, and the Diploma
awarded you on completion is recognised by employers all over
Australia. Post the coupon below and full details will be sent you
by return.
DIESEL ENGINEERING COLLEGE STUDENTS
HAVE BEEN PLACED ALL OVER AUSTRALIA
The Diesel Engineering College’s new simplified system of personal
training by mail makes learning Diesel Engineering easy, no matter
how far from Sydney you may live. This College does not sell you
a pile of textbooks and leave you to wade through them, nor does
NO PREVIOUS ENGINEERING
KNOWLEDGE-NO HIGH EDUCA-
TIONAL STANDARD NEEDED
it fill up your head with a lot of complicated mathematics. By this
simple home-study course, practical Diesel engineers teach you
everything you need to know to operate the service Diesel engines
efficiently. You are guided step by step with the aid of easily-
followed instruction papers and diagrams. Everything is made
clear. You’ll be amazed to find how quickly you become familiar
with the workings of the Diesel. Many students have qualified for
positions in as short a period as four months. The fees are low
and payments easy.
SEND FOR FREE BOOKLET.
Those who get in early reach the top first.
Tear off and post this coupon now for free
booklet describing the Diesel Engineering
College course. There is no obligation, so
don’t put it off! The best intentions in the
world are useless if you don t AC T ! If
you don’t want to mutilate your “Bulletin”
just drop us a note!
m
GOVERNMENT DIESEL ENGINE DRIVER S CERTIFICATE
Residents of Sydney and district are prepared for the Government
Diesel Engine Driver’s Certificate . . . over 90% of our students
pass in the examinations.
DIESEL ENGINEERING COLLEGE,
Dept. 14, 255 a George Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
Please send me the Free Booklet with particulars ol the
Diesel Engineering College course.
NAME
ADDRESS
B. 3/11/1943,
DIE S E L ENGINEERING COLLEGE
255 a GEORGE STREET. SYDNEY.
