

d
The Bulletin
“The Bulletin,” VoL 65—No. 3349
Wednesday, April 19, 1944
Price 6d.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaoer.
Seppelts
ANN HATHAWAY'S COTTAGE, STRATFORD-ON-AVON, ENGLAND.
HP HIS charming little cottage still stands in substantially the same
1 condition as when Shakespeare came here to whisper to his
future wife, Ann Hathaway, the story of his love. It is still occu-
pied by a descendant of the Hathaway family. There can be little
doubt that the man who has given to the world that most adorable
of lovers, Romeo, must have himself been an incomparable suitor.
For whatever may be said about great geniuses making poor hus-
bands, there can be little question of their fascination in those
delightful moments of uncertainty and novelty commonly known
as courtship and the honeymoon. Standing here listening to the
nightingales and thrushes, one recalls with pleasure these lines
attributed to Shakespeare:
Would ye be taught, ye feathered throng,
With love’s sweet notes to frame your song ?
To pierce my heart with thrilling lay ,
Listen to my Ann Hathaway !
She hath-a-way to sing so clear,
Phoebus might, wondering, stoop to hear ;
To melt the sad, make blithe the gay,
To charm all hearts, Ann hath-a-way ;
She hath-a-way,
Ann Hathaway,
To breathe delight, Ann hath-a-way!”


d
This Book FREE to YOU I
STOTT’S CORRESPONDENCE COLLEGE.
100 Russell Street, Melbourne.
CUT HERE AND MAIL
Please send, without obligation, pour New Free
Booklet explaining how to Write for Profit, as
advertised in the Sydney “Bulletin,"
My Name
My Address
S.B. 144 AGE
The Red Page
LIFE OF A "FIEND."
“His manners are 99 in 100 singularly
repulsive,” said Coleridge ; “brow-hang-
ing, shoe-contemplative, strange.”
His smile, said Mary Shelley, “was like
a sunbeam illuminating the most melan-
choly of ruins, lightning that assured you
on a dark night of the identity of a
friend’s ruined and deserted abode.”
“I looked on him personally as little
better jthan an incarnate fiend,” said Pat-
more before he met him.
This was William Hazlitt, whose
sombre and stormy life Catherine Mac-
donald Maclean has told in Born Under
Saturn (Collins; Angus and Robertson).
Even Charles Lamb, the most tolerant of
men—and the only literary man of his
period who seems to have attained
balance of mind —found Hazlitt awkward
company. Lamb took Hazlitt to meet
a couple of girls, and Hazlitt “sat and
frowned blacker and blacker, indignant
that there should be such a thing as
Youth and Beauty. He tore me away
before supper in perfect misery and
owned he could not bear young girls ;
they drove him mad.”
Although she strives nobly, and labori-
ously, after detachment, Catherine Mac-
donald Maclean has not quite achieved
it. She is biased in Hazlitt’s favor in his
quarrels with Wordsworth and Coleridge,
and does not quote the most fiendish of
his utterances on the two poets, which
is to be found at the conclusion of one
of his “characters” of Coleridge:
It was a misfortune to any man of
talent to be born at the latter end of the
last century The flame of liberty, the
light of intellect, was to be extinguished
with the sword —or with slander, whose
edge is sharper than the sword The
philosophers, the dry, abstract reasoners,
submitted to this reverse pretty well, and
armed themselves with patience “as with
triple steel,” to bear discomfiture, persecu-
tion and disgrace. But the poets, the
creatures of sympathy, could not stand the
frowns both of king and people. They
did not like to be shut out when places
and pensions, when the critic’s praises and
the laurel wreath were about to be dis-
tributed. They did not stomach being sent
to Coventry, and Mr. Coleridge sounded a
retreat for them by the help of casuistry
and a musical voice.
To Understand the full monstrousness
of this attack it is necessary to know
exactly what Wordsworth and Coleridge
had done. Both had welcomed the
French Revolution as a new birth of
Liberty in the world. They saw the re-
birth of Liberty degenerate into the
Terror, they saw the rise of Napoleon,
and they decided that they had been mis-
taken. England, with all its faults, was
the true home of Liberty.
Neither of them was in the least
ashamed of this change of front; though
Miss Maclean, in company with Hazlitt,
accepts the conventional view that they
had reason to be. On the contrary, both
made public statements giving their
reasons, Wordsworth in verse and Cole-
ridge in both verse and prose. “All
Governments,” Miss Maclean expounds
Coleridge, “to a certain extent mangle
Liberty, and this is unavoidable, because
the corruption of Governments is only
the visible sign of corruption lurking in
the governed.”
All Governments are bad, and it was
hardly shameful in Coleridge to have
perceived that Napoleon was not a saint.
“It is an accursed thing,” said Words-
worth, “to look on prosperous tyrants
with a dazzled eye.”
Confronted with the Terror and with
Bonaparte, the two poets turned to what
Hazlitt called “the mean side” of con-
servatism and patriotism. Hazlitt, mean-
while, had refused to modify his opinions,
even when the plain facts made them
nonsensical. He had decided at the be-
ginning that Napoleon was the incar-
nation of the Revolution, Liberty herself.
and nothing that the Emperor said or
did could shake him. If Napoleon could
say that he would sacrifice the whole
people of Italy sooner than lose a single
French soldier, he was still the champion
of humanity. If he brought the terrors
and miseries of invasion to the Russian
people he was nonetheless their “deliv-
erer” ; and “the hag Despotism was still
the hag Despotism, even when she
flaunted herself over Moscow dressed in
a robe of flame-colored taffeta.”
With what seems to us today—until we
consider the antics of the contemporary
Left—fantastic blindness, Hazlitt stuck
to his (and Napoleon’s) guns. “It is not
to be believed how the death of Napoleon
affected him,” said Benjamin Haydon.
“He seemed prostrated in mind and body,
he walked about unwashed, unshaved,
hardly sober by day and always intoxi-
cated by night.”
This was not the detached admiration
of Byron for a colorful mass-murderer.
Hazlitt (and Miss Maclean seems to be
with him) thoroughly disapproved of
Byron. It was fanaticism.
Even so, there was nothing dishonor-
able —if nothing sensible —in it. It was
a legitimate point of view, Hazlitt was
passionately sincere. Where he went un-
forgivably wrong, where he became a
“fiend,” was in refusing to admit that
Wordsworth and Coleridge—in their
much more sensible opinions—were also
sincere.
It is easy enough to follow the con-
ventional Freudian trail to the source of
Hazlitt’s political evangelism and its
corollary, political fury. And, at that
source, one finds also the origin of that
hatred for life to which Lamb’s anecdote
of the visit to the young girls bears wit-
ness. He was a puritan, maimed by the
narrow orthodoxy of his childhood. In
his dark satanic strength, in his self-
torment as the desire for life warred with
his fear and hate of it, in his pitiableness
and, above all, in his conviction of a
personal injustice done him by the uni-
verse —his incessant blaming of life for
being what it is—he reminds one of Mil-
ton. Life was not what he had been led
to believe ; he himself was not what he
had been led to believe. It “put him be-
side himself.”
Like his politics, his personal life was
a dance of fury. He approached his first
marriage, to the gay and charming Miss
Stoddart, with “repugnance and a sort
of fatal fascination,” driven by “the very
fear of the event.”
Before that there had been the mysteri-
ous “Keswick incident,” which, despite
Catherine Maclean’s painstaking analysis,
remains a mystery. Something, nobody
knows what, happened between Hazlitt
and a country girl that led to his being
driven from the district: he was man-
handled, narrowly escaped ducking, was
pursued by men on horseback and was
helped to escape by Wordsworth, who,
with Coleridge, was cold to him from that
day onwards.
The essence of the matter seems to be
that Hazlitt lost his temper with the girl;
his “fiend’s” temper. Lamb treated it
as a joke. Wordsworth gossiped about
it, and, according to Frederic Words-
worth Haydon, the story “combined such
a union of the fiendish, the ludicrous and
the sublime as not to be surpassed in any
story ever told of Hazlitt.”
Here again Catherine Maclean subtly
colors the story in favor of Hazlitt.
She attacks Wordsworth for gossip-
ing, and both him and Coleridge for lack
of charity. Probably the two poets did
err on the side of conventional morality.
Neither was exactly a Pecksniff, but they
both were able to forget their own stray-
ings with an ease which today seems
hypocritical. The professional pietism of
Dr. Johnson still governed public manners.
Nevertheless it was asking a great deal
of human nature for Wordsworth to keep
silent on the subject all his life long or
for Coleridge to refrain from comment,
especially when Hazlitt had accused both
of prostituting the cause of Freedom.
Crabb said Hazlitt “whipped” the woman ;
and if that was the truth —nobody knows
—Wordsworth and Coleridge were hardly
to be blamed for disapproving.
Hazlitt was certainly to prove later in
life —“I am not mad, but my heart is so ;
and raves within me fierce and untame-
able, like a panther in its den” —that love
took him like a frenzy. What he sought
and what he got from women was tor-
ment. The story of his love for Sarah
Walker, the one great passion of his life
(which Miss Maclean tells very, well), is
Shakspearean in its tragic intensity.
Knowing, as he must have known, that
the girl did not really care a rap for him,
he hounded her till she turned and broke
him. He sought punishment, and he got
it. He sought to be hated, and he was.
In itself it is a pitiable and terrible story ;
though it is always to be remembered!
that Hazlitt was a literary man and that
he got a book out of it.
As contradictory a character as ever
was seen on earth—a lover who did
everything he knew would make his girl
hate him ; a puritan who haunted the
brothels and the pubs ; a democrat who
worshipped Napoleon; a pacifist who
raged at the “hired scribbler” sitting
“secure and self-satisfied” at his desk,
sending thousands of his fellow-country-
men to death “with a venomed word or
a lie that looks like truth” and yet who,
when the French made peace, “scorned
them for submitting” ;. a man benevolent
in theory who could see other theorists
so clearly as to say “I believe in the
theoretical benevolence and practical
malignity of man,” yet never could see
himself; a lover of mankind who cried
out “Hatred alone is immortal”—Hazlitt
can only be understood as a man who
demanded to be hated.
Only when he had piled up enough
hatred on his head could he turn to life
with a smile of love “like a sunbeam in
the most melancholy of ruins.” Only
when he had attacked them as men could
he praise Wordsworth and Coleridge as
writers. Only when he had attacked him-
self and his friends like a fiend could he
turn and write like an angel.
Why a man should be so driven, the
gods alone know. His puritan upbring-
ing is not enough to account for it. The
clue, perhaps, lies in the fact that he
wrote with great difficulty; with torture,
at first. He had a fighter’s heart—his
essay on “The Fight” bears witness —
and he needed the stimulus of battle. Art,
he says in his great essay on poetry, “has
its. source and groundwork in the
common love of strong excitement,”
It is a fitting paradox that he should
live today—apart from his interest as a
character—chiefly by those writings which
contradict everything he believed. He
was a puritan, but he lives for his praise
of Rabelais. He condemned Coleridge
and Wordsworth as men, and he lives
for his praise of their poetry. He was a
political fanatic, yet he lives for saying
—admirably if not, alas, quite accurately
—“Homer’s poetical world has outlived
Plato’s philosophical Republic.” Life
hurt him, would not obey his rules, and
he hated it; yet he lives for his affirma-
tion of the whole of life, its “evil’ as well
as its “good”:
The rest is mere oblivion, a dead letter:
for all that is worth remembering in life
is the poetry of it. Fear is poetry, hope is
poetry, love is poetry, hatred is poetry;
contempt, jealousy, remorse, admiration,
wonder, pity, despair or madness are all
poetry.”
“Man,” he added, “is a poetical animal.”
The phrase is a better self-portrait than
rumor’s “fiend.”
On the whole, Catherine Maclean has
presented this “poetical animal’'’ well.
Her style seems made, not born—a mix-
ture of Carlyle and Hazlitt with too many
affectations, “nays” and “perchances”
and “a-preparings” and ejaculations such
as “William of Wem! a poison-thorny
way lies before thee!” She makes hard
work both of writing and of analysing
character. The book is unconsciously
biased. But both the drama of Hazlitt’s
life and the general picture of the period
are very well done. Nay, excellently,
Dumas and New Zealand .
Most people probably don’t know that
Dumas pere put his name, to two books
largely about New Zealand — The Whalers
and The Journal of Madame Giovanni.
A New Zealander, Frank Reed, of
Whangarei, translated The Whalers, and
another, Johannes Andersen, wrote the
introduction and notes. The book was
the joint work of Dumas pere and Dr.
Felix Maynard, who was the surgeon of
a French whaler which visited New Zea-
land in the thirties and forties of last
century. Few copies ever reached New
Zealand.
Three —and only three —copies of The
Journal of Madame Giovanni, recently
published by Liveright Publishing Cor-
poration, New York, have reached New
Zealand. One went to Frank Reed, one
to John Barr, Auckland librarian, and I
feel lucky in possessing the third.
This is the first English translation of
the Journal. The translator. Marguerite
Eyer Wilbur, pays tribute to the help
given her by Reed and John Barr. The
book is handsomely produced—American
publishers apparently not being hampered
by war-time economy standards. Inci-
dentally I have noticed this in the English
and American editions of Eileen Dug-
gan’s Poems; also in Daughter of Time,
Nelia Gardner White’s study of Kather-
ine Mansfield. The English editions are
skimped, the American ornate.
Madame Giovanni was a beautiful
young Frenchwoman who in the 1850’s
journeyed with her husband (one of the
wildest of speculators) to M.L. They
landed in Auckland, which was as lively
those days as it is in 1944, The pages
of the Journal are naive; the Dumas
imagination, working quaintly, is not
wholly divorced from fact. Madame
travels to Hobart, to Sydney (where “it
blows a Brickfield”), to Tahiti (where she
meets Queen Pomare), on to San Fran-
cisco (which proves an underwriter’s
nightmare), to Hawaii and to Mexico,
The New York “Times” said the volume
is “a more engaging and imaginative
travelling companion than Captain Cook,
Livingstone and Frank Buck put to-
gether.”
Reed, who played no small part in the
production of the Journal, and contri-
buted the foreword, has probably the
finest collection of books and MSS. relat-
ing to Dumas pere outside Paris. His
collection (nearly 3000 volumes and many
sheets of Dumas MSS.) has been willed
to the Auckland Public Library, and
years of his very busy life have been
given to translations of his favorite
author. This latter work has included
over 70 plays, five of which had never
been printed. Add to this Reed’s com-
prehensive Dumas bibliography, two
typed volumes of 864 pages. He was
over 40 before he could read a word of
French. — Pat Lawlor.
“Vaucy B.”: I sent a copy of a book
published in Australia to the Australian
representative of an English publishing
house for submission to his principals.
He replied that he would submit it, but
held out little hope of its acceptance be-
cause it “was so very Australian.” Well,
Zane Grey was so very American, but
sold well in England; Warwick Deep-
ing, so very English, sells well in Aus-
tralia ; and Lin Yutang, so very Chinese,
sells well all over the English-speaking
world.
|
,
I
?
SUNDRY SHOWS.
That admirable official war artist Peter
Mclntyre (he was with the Maorilanders
in the campaign that drove Rommel out
of Africa) has been showing a collection
of his work in the principal towns of his
ML. It is splendid stuff, vigorous and
realistic. The Fernland Government
might do worse than send the show across
the Tasman, just to underline the facts
that the New Zealanders are in the war,
too, and that “official” art is not neces-
sarily academic or inferior to photo-
graphy.
“Cities of Yesterday” is the title of an
unusual exhibition of water-colors with
accompanying captions at Kozminsky’s
Galleries, Melbourne, by Dr. Ernst
Fuchs, a Czech architect who practised
in Vienna. The cities range from Milan,
Stockholm, Prague, Frankfort, Paris,
Salzburg and Split (Yugoslavia) to
Coburg (Victoria) and Melbourne, and if
the pictures, like most architects’ draw-
ings, are of slight artistic merit, they tell
a moving story. Most of the drawings
could just as well have been done in the
Middle Ages, for many of the small
towns and parts of* the big ones haven’t
changed in the slightest. Where they
have, the change has always been for the
worse, as the captions point out.
“Curtin Raiser”: The statement in B.
29/3/’44 that in “The Great Mr. Handel”
the audience at the London performance
of the “Messiah” “rises in awe at the
Halleujah Chorus” isn’t quite accurate.
They rise only after they observe that
George Two has risen in his box. So, it
the film is correct, it was an act of respect
on the part of the audience to the mon-
arch, not of reverence to Handel’s music.
As there has been ever since a tradi-
tion of the audience rising for the chorus
—faithfully observed by Australian con-
certgoers—Handel has a lot to thank
George Two for.
At the talkies:
In making a film to pay tribute to, and show
as much as possible of the training and worm
of, England’s Auxiliary Territorial Service, me
late Leslie Howard sensibly dodged any ortho-
dox plot. Instead, character studies and re-
actions of seven girls of varied background, dis-
position and outlook thrown together as re-
cruits. “The Gentle Sex” (Sydney Embassy)
is a neatly ironical title; the girls who worfc
AA. predictors under fire and drive five-ion
trucks on a 400-mile convoy at night in the
blackout, doing their own running repairs, are
anything but shrinking violets of the sort that
used to swoon into the arms of a flowered
vested gallant if a fellow with two days stubble
on heaved in sight. Each characterisation,
polished by Howard’s directmg, is an excellent
cameo, and documentary parts have been
cleverly dovetailed in.
Skating with skill over a thin-ice theme.
Preston Sturges has contrived a rippling run
of haywire sequences in The Miracle oi
Morgan’s Creek” (Victory), culminating in a
sniffing anticlimax. Betty Hutton is the exac
type of comedienne for the role of the girl who.
attending a wild party, regains consciousness to
find Ss married to an unknown sokto and
the perfect foil for her clowning is there '
Eddie Bracken as the dumb-duck boy-fnend
who tries to straighten out the tangle. An
hilarating spot of nonsense.


“TRUTH IN ADVERTISING’*
"THE SENIOR STORE’
A
sfcv-j
si m
fc VicWf V Slogani
‘‘ KEEP ;' r nearer, day bV
are bnng' n 8 wea tbet months, t e
■/ n Fit during c0 ' d disease germs.
To KeeP V be fortified against d.seas
system must sweet orange l«' ce ’
Haliborange, tasting fish od, «'
'***%!***'*• I
keep y°" and
mi
J;
A
| I <. wx-x
mpf
m
mm
m
* *
mm
m
m
■■ i
\V
• A » f
W
ill
1
iii
-
>•
Nc.
■£***>.
Wi
\
\
/■
W
LX*
6
n
a pyiJp
x.
and
■
auSW
V3
for
•••xX
V
ptKfiSl
Si
I
I
n
V' £:
><? 1
11
lit
5
F
(NX
oe 3 combination of
ensured by Hahbot QU and or ange i“‘ ,ce
Allen & Hanburys Halibut * teaspoo0 ful of
Cod Liver Oil. with»«
5 ,6
juice.
I.
The nicest way of taking
£ Halibut-Liver Oil
S A combination of p iSS
| Allenburys Halibut-Liver Oil p ilj
x S with additional Vitamin 0 and ||
; -1 Allenburys Orange Juke. || ||
x: :i C»nHl» 1*» sr»»H«.f>0l»oN.f X pp
S A. «nd f*r «ot«r*chihc S: : :
vSj: a Vit4«HA 0. »»iM» iht X:
v! : : : Yffamin C. ««
¥:?:? Om *oJ>bonmfot ♦/ Hatihoran g* Sgg
;£* & /* tout* of rut to ,*/•««* Money :*c : : |g£
$ *» ioospooofal j Cod / L . ,vr \ | <
OH with Vwv teasfoontolh «/
frr>h Or on so Jfitr. •£■ £:j#
F«r *rf«Forn «» fc>*< •*
b«g» fcottte. ***** >x ' : -
X
/X
, J6*'
* ■ •• No—'^N n 'v A
Phone: M 2401 (Day and Night)
r y
yr-
,|T' *
//:
/ //
—:":.:xxxxx:.x
'%fe
: ii: %
-X
|A x x;
*% / / X X--- ■
x y
y/
XX
W
W»iSW»»
,1*^)
Cy
famouViow pwoes
Box 2712C, C.P.O., Sydney


THE MAN AT THE POST OFFICE
By MARGARET TRIST.
MONICA looked up and down the
main street. “Did you eve, ace
anything like it?” she demanded.
“Why, what’s up with tit?”
asked Mamie.
“What’s right with it?” >
Mamie blinked against the hot spring
sunshine. Her gaze followed Monica’s.
There were half a dozen shops with blinds
lowered between their verandah rails,
a once-ornamental building with School
of Arts in fading black letters upon it,
a rambling brick structure with the legend
Commercial Hotel, a post office and a
police station. To the rail outside the
hotel a weary horse was tethered. He
swished his tail against the flies.
“It looks the same as usual,” said
Mamie.
“That’s just it,” complained Monica.
“It’s never any different.”
“What about in the duststorms last
summer?”
“They didn’t improve it. I tell you,
Mamie, I’m sick of the whole darned
place.”
“And me?” asked Mamie.
“Don’t be silly. You know you’re my
best friend. But you’ve got Teddy now,”
Mamie giggled. “Have I?” she said
coyly.
Monica nudged her. “Kid you don’t
know. Anyone can see he’s crazy about
you.”
Let’s walk past the butcher’s shop
again,” said Mamie.
“But we’ve been past there twice
already.”
“ He might be looking out this time.”
“Well, if I come with you, will you
do something for me?”
“What is it?”
“Go over to the post office and see if
there’s a letter.”
“Why can’t you go?”
“I’m so dead-scared it won’t be there.”
“Who’s it from?” asked Mamie archly.
Oh, it’s nothing like that,” answered
Monica. “It’s about a job I wrote after.
They want a girl to help during the shear-
ing out at Kennedy’s. Shearing sounds
exciting, don’t you reckon?”
Mamie looked doubtful. “But it’ll
only be washing up and things like that,”
she said.
Well, that’ll be better than washing
up at home, won’t it?” demanded
Monica.
Mamie grasped Monica’s ami as they
neared the butcher’s shop and strolled
nonchalantly past. A whistle followed
them. Mamie giggled unrestrainedly.
“Gee, that Teddy,” she gurgled. “You’ve
no idea, Monny; how awful he is.”
“Did you see him?”
“No. I wasn’t game to look.”
“Pooh!” scoffed Monica. “If he was
my boy-friend I’d look him straight in
tht ;ye and poke my tongue out.”
“But you don’t know the dreadful
things he kept saying last night. I’ve
got to go to Reid’s and get some cotton.”
“What about my letter?”
“All right, we’ll get it first.”
“You’re to go and get it.”
“Aw, that’s silly. What’s there in
asking for a letter? Besides, there’s a new
man at the post office. We could give
him the once-over.”
“The Watson girls always bag the
post office men,” answered Monica
wearily,
“But that doesn’t stop us looking at
him. You never know. You can’t afford
to let chances slip in a town like this.”
“All right,” said Monica, “if you ask
about the letter.”
'T'HERE were no customers in the post
1 office and the new clerk stood dis-
interestedly behind the counter. He
glanced at Mamie.
“Any mail for Miss Monica Jardine?”
she asked.
“You Miss Monica Jardine?” he asked.
“What if I’m not?” demanded Mamie.
“Search me,” said the young man.
“As a matter of fact,” said Mamie be-
fore Monica could stop her, “I’m not.
It’s my friend here,”
“Well, hasn’t she got a tongue?” asked
the young man. He shifted his glance to
Monica, looked at her dark hair curling
up under her straw hat, her brown eyes,
the freckles powdered lightly on her skin,
the full red curve of her mouth. He
turned away and searched through a
pigeonhole. “No. Nothing,” he said.
“Well, wouldn’t that make you mad!”
exclaimed Monica as she walked out of
the post office.
You’re lucky, I tell you,” answered
Mamie. “Fancy trying to get yourself
buried in the country. Besides, what’d
your mother say?”
“She wouldn’t say anything. She’s not
interested about anything but the new
baby. She kinda goes into a trance each
time.”
“Is she having another?” asked Mamie
interestedly,
“Didn’t I tell you?”
_ I must say your mother’s a wonder,”
said Mamie admiringly. “She looks just
the same if she’s going to or not. Did
you see the way he looked at you?”
“Who?” asked Monica.
“The chap in the post office, silly.”
Did he? I wish those people would
write.”
“Aw, forget them. Monica, you’re a
fool if you don’t try to catch him.”
“Pooh, him,” scoffed Monica. “He’s
not much to look at.”
The trouble,” said Mamie angrily, “is
that nothing less than Gary Cooper will
do you.”
“Oh, Cooper’s all right,” answered
Monica languidly.
“You’ll end up an old maid, like Miss
Taylor,” threatened Mamie. “You know
what they did to her. Took her to the
madhouse. Here you are nearly eighteen
and never even been kissed.”
“I have been kissed,” retorted Monica
hotly; “But it didn’t last long enough for
me to know if I liked it or not. Any-
how, that sort of stuff’s too hot this
weather.”
“That’s just where you’re wrong,”
giggled Mamie. “I’ll tell you what, we’ll
go and ask for the letter again tomorrow
afternoon.”
The next afternoon there was still no
letter. The new clerk bandied a few words
with them, looked long and insolently at
Monica, then went about his work whist-
ling under his breath. The girls left
the post office arm in arm.
‘ That pale look suits him,” remarked
Mamie. “Sort of distinguished. And I
guess he’s not so pale inside. There’s a
look in his eye. What’s today? Friday,
and no mail till Monday. If we knew the
church he goes to we could go Sunday
night, but the trouble is we can’t be in
four places at once. Let’s go across and
give Teddy a tootle. Of course,” she
went on as they crossed the road, “we
might meet him up the street tomorrow
night. Most people come out for air
Saturday night. And if he’s not around
the streets, he might be at the pictures.”
“I can’t go to the pictures,” said
Monica sullenly. “I haven’t any money.”
“Well, Teddy’ll take us both.”
“But I don’t even know his name,”
“It’s Tommy O’Shea,” supplied Mamie.
“Well, I can’t go chasing him.”
“Why, don’t you like him?”
“Oh, he’s all right. But”
“You’ve got to chase them,” said
Mamie decidedly. “You want a man,
you’ve got to up and after him.”
“I don’t want a man.”
“You must or why should you go doing
silly things like trying to get yourself
mixed up with shearers’ washing-ups?
They’ve got to be chased or it’s good
night.”
“1 guess you know,” acquiesced
Monica.
“I’ll say I do.” Mamie was vehement.
JARDINE sat in a rocker on
1v 1 the front verandah, the youngest of
the family, a plump boy of two, clasped
against her voluminous bosom. She
swayed backwards and forwards, croon-
ing softly, and dividing her attention be-
tween her husband, who smoked his
pipe sitting on the edge of the verandah,
and the vine-wreathed end of the veran-
dah, where long years ago, one such hot
spring as this, a red-bellied black snake
had been discovered intertwined with the
vines, his little black eyes fixed on a
dripping waterbag hanging from the
roof. Mr. Jardine, with a momentary
spasm of usefulness, had borrowed a
gun and shot it into three pieces. But
the ghost had somehow lingered; Mrs.
Jardine always expected it to rise and
confront her any moment. In the broad
unmade roadway the children played,
their cries shrill upon the dusk. The
lights of the town had come out, yellow
and hot against the oncoming night.
Monica emerged from the house, slim in
a tight-fitting light frock, a white ribbon
shining against her dark hair.
“Where are you going?” demanded her
mother.
“Up the street.”
“Who said you could go?”
“I’m just going.”
Mrs, Jardine sighed, but without ran-
cor. “You can bring us a couple of
pounds of tomatoes,”- she said. “The
money’s on the dresser.”
Monica went searching for the money.
“If I remember,” she muttered under her
breath. She vanished, a slight, upright
figure, into the night.
Again Mrs. Jardine sighed. “Kind of
reminds me of myself twenty years ago,”
she said.
Her husband grunted. “Where’s she
gone?”
“Up the street.”
“How do you know?”
“She said. Didn’t you hear?” •
“Hearing’s not believing.”
“Oh, Monica’s a good girl.”
“That’s what she tells you.”
“She doesn’t tell me anything.”
She’s too big to be flying around the
town by herself at night. She’ll get her-
self into bother. It’s against ail instinct.”
“Oh, Monica’s got no instincts,”
answered Mrs, Jardine eagerly. “She’s
quite a cold little thing and innocent as
the day. Do you know she doesn’t even
know when there’s a baby on the way.”
/'"NNCE out of earshot of the house
y' Monica broke into a nln. Several
times in the hot darkness she capered
unrestrainedly and threw her arms against
the velvet air. When she came to the
street lights she sobered and walked
decorously, turning at last into the main
street. It was animated now ; the band
played outside the picture theatre, people
wandered restlessly up and down or talked
in little groups. She caught up with
Mamie and Teddy outside the Greek’s.
“How about an ice-cream?” asked
Teddy. He was a solid, ruddy-faced youth
with brown, short-clipped hair.
“Ooh, no,” breathed Monica.
“Of course, let’s,” said Mamie. They
walked in a body into the cafe, Mamie
looking eagerly around. “He’s not here,”
she whispered to Monica,
“Fair go, no secrets,” cried Teddy.
They ate their ice-cream at a small
marble-topped table, beneath fly-spotted
festoons of colored paper.
Well, that s that,” said Teddy when
they had finished. “I don’t know what
you girls see in ice-cream, fair dinkum
I don’t.”
“It’s a sight better than beer,” retorted
Mamie. “Besides, it doesn’t make you
drunk.”
m “That’s what I said,” answered Teddy.
No use at all. Come on, let’s get along
to the pictures.”
“Oh, it’s too early,” pouted Mamie.
We’ll take a turn up and down the street
first.”
“What for?” demanded Teddy, but he
offered an arm to each girl.
They strolled the length of the street
and back again, with no avail.
Teddy yawned. “Does that satisfy
you?” he asked.
“Just once more,” answered Mamie.
“’Struth!” exclaimed Teddy.
They had walked the length of the
street again and were coming back.
“Ah,” said Mamie suddenly.
“What the hell,” said Teddy.
“Look, there’s Mr. O’Shea from the
post office.”
“So what?”
“Poor fellow looks lonely. Let’s ask
him to go to the pictures with us.”
“Weil, he’ll have to pay for himself.”
Teddy was belligerent.
“Of course. Ssssh.”
Tom O’Shea stood disconsolately on
the edge of the pavement outside the
paper shop. He looked at a two-day-
old paper poster contemptuously. Mamie
passed her hand behind Teddy and poked
Monica. “Smile, you fool,” she hissed.
The three of them came to rest un-
certainly in front of O’Shea.
“Hullo, O’Shea,” said Teddy off-
handedly. “You got to like this little
burgh yet?”
“No,” snapped O’Shea.
“It takes time,” consoled Teddy.
“I haven’t got that long,” replied Tom.
His eyes flitted from one to the other
of the girls and rested on Monica.
“Meet some friends of mine,” said
Teddy, and introduced them with such a
flourish that Mamie nearly passed out in
admiration.
“I believe you dropped into the office
the other day,” murmured Tom after
acknowledging them politely.
“I believe we did,” Mamie patted her
hair languidly.
“We’re going to the pictures,” said
Teddy. “Good show. Care to come
along?”
“I saw that programme six months
ago,” grumbled Tom. “But seeing there’s
nothing else to do”
“Oh, don’t put yourself out,” said
Teddy,
“We’ve roller skating in the winter.”
Monica was defensive.
“What a thrill,” mocked Tom. “I
guess I’ll come.” He fell into step be-
side them.
They got to the theatre as the pictures
started. The first one was unexciting,
relieved only when Mamie smacked
Teddy’s face. Tom groaned audibly.
Once he rested his hand casually on
Monica’s, let it stay a second, and
took it away. At interval the men went
away to smoke, returning with a packet
of sticky sweets.
“Look,” said Tom disgustedly, “can’t
even buy your girra box of chocolates.”
“Who’s your girl?” asked Mamie.
“Well, you’re not,” he answered and
winked at Monica, who flushed and
turned away.
The second picture was worse, Tom
fidgeted uneasily.* “Let’s get out,” he said
at last.
“The girls want to see if she does get
kissed in ,the end,” replied Teddy,
“Of course she does, if she wants to.”
Mamie sniggered. “You’re awful,” she
whispered.
Outside afterwards she drew Monica
aside and hugged her. “I’ve fixed it all
for you,” she said delightedly.
“Fixed what?”
“I’ve got you a boy friend, silly,”
“I don’t know if I want one,” bridled
Monica.
“Of course you do. You’ve got to
have a regular. But be careful; don’t
let him kiss you first go off. It gives
them ideas.”
“Where to now?” demanded Tom
loudly.
“I’m seeing Mamie home,” answered
Teddy.
“That makes it I have to take the
other,”
“You needn’t,” retorted Monica.
He slapped her playfully. “It’s a
pleasure. Don’t mind me.”
"THEY parted with Mamie and Teddy
* at the corner. “I’ll be round first
thing in the morning,” called Mamie as
they went.
Walking beside Tom along the road-
way Monica peered stealthily at his pale,
discontented face. It awed her to be
walking beside the new man from the
post office. Wouldn’t the Watson girls
be mad if they could see her? He slipped
his arm round her so casually it took
her breath away. “Well,” he said.
“Well,” she countered.
“This town’s not as bad as I thought.”
“It’s all right when you get used to it.”
“I was waiting for you to come for
your letter this morning.”
“Was there a letter this morning? I
didn’t think it could come today.”
“Well, it did. It must be important or
you wouldn’t have hung round after it.”
His arm pressed more closely.
“I reckon you wanted that letter,” he
said.
Monica laughed. “Forget it,” she said.
“It doesn’t matter.”


The Bulletin
Vol. 65—No, 3349,
Wednesday, April 19, 1944.
“WHO’S THAT KNOCKING AT MY DOOR?”


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper
“Australia for the White Man”
Directors:
H. K. Prior J. E. Webb
P. H. Prior David Adams
HEAD OFFICE: 252 George Street, Sydney;
Box 252IBB; ’Phone 87971.
Victoria : Newspaper House, 247-249 Collins
Street, Melbourne. .
Queensland; 239 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
Westralia: 33 Barrack Street, Perth.
New Zealand: Nathan’s Buildings {opp.
G.P.0.), Wellington.
London: I Hare Place, 47 Fleet Street.
London, E.C.4.
FORDE IN A FIX.
Each of the fighting English-speaking
nations has a man-power problem, and
that of the smallest of them is not the
least difficult.
Out of a population of 1,630,000 at the
beginning of the war New Zealand has
mobilised 189,000 men and sent 109,000
overseas. It has two divisions of ground
troops in the field and impressive
of airmen and seamen who have served
with equal distinction; and of recent months
it has been called upon by its senior part-
ners to increase its output of foodstuffs and
other raw materials, already substantial.
Mr. Fraser, meeting the new Parlia-
ment, said that “mobilisation of the total
resources of New Zealand in man-power
and materials for the successful prosecu-
tion of the war remains the foremost aim
of my Government’s policy.” Reviewing
what had been done, he meritioned that,
“with the recession of the threat of Japa-
nese attack,” it had been “found possible
to reduce the forces maintained for home
service” by reconstituting the Territorial
Army on a part-time basis, thereby releas-
ing men not only for industry but for
the N.Z.E.F. and “other armed services,”
and by placing the Home Guard in the
Reserve. Consideration of man-power
requirements, “particularly as regards the
balance between the armed forces, food
production and other essential commit-
ments,” would be “among the more urgent
matters to be dealt with this session.”
Before going abroad to attend the
Prime Ministers’ conference, Mr. Fraser
announced that his Government had not
only drawn up a plan for the withdrawal
of men with farming experience from
the armed forces, particularly “to make
a substantial increase in exports of dairy
produce to the U.K.,” but had submitted
it to the British and American Govern-
ments and secured their concurrence —a
sagacious step.
The Australian Labor Government has
other notions and has adopted other
methods. In the s'peech it put in the
Governor-General’s mouth at the open-
ing of the new. Parliament, it promised
“a comprehensive review of the nature,
extent and balance of Australia’s war
effort” to the end of providing “the maxi-
mum contribution by Australia in the
South-west Pacific area” and a contribu-
tion to “the efforts of the United Nations
in other theatres where the aid can be
provided by Australia.” But it dwelt
more on “provision for certain social
services,’’ the “organisation and develop-
ment of the resources of Australia in
peace,” the “re-establishment in post-
war industry of those who have been
devoted to war production” and other
aspects of “the problem of post-war
reconstruction,” aIL with “final victory
still to be won.”
From this vision of a post-war para-
dise the Government was recalled to earth
by Country party members, one of whom,
Mr. Anthony, moved the adjournment
to remind it that a ghastly mess had been
made of food production and distribu-
tion. After stating the position on
the home front, familiar to farmers
starved of labor, machinery, implements,
parts and fuel, and to consumers with
ill-stocked larders, Mr. Anthony charged
the Government with failing in its duty
to the British, evidenced by the fact that
annual exports of beef had fallen since
1941 from 61,000 tons to 15,000 tons and
annual exports of pork and bacon from
32,000 tons to 5000 tons, practically all
of which 20,000 tons of beef, pork
and bacon had gone to the Middle
East. To which Dr. Page added that
production of Australian butter had
declined from 7,600,000 boxes to
6,000,000 boxes, and exports from
boxes to 2,139,000 boxes, with
the hard-pressed Britons rationed to two
ounces a week. He pointed out that the
number of men engaged in rural produc-
tion, 533,000 at the outbreak of war,
had diminished to 355,000, nearly 170,000
men having “left the farms” and-he
argued that “the ultimate decision as to
who should be withdrawn from the Army
for food production should lie” with the
Man-power authorities, advised by agri-
cultural committees.
Mr. Forde did not agree, nor did he
admit that the Government had been
found wanting in any domain —“the
diatribe we have listened to received a
fitting reply at the general election.” “The
Army,” he said, “must have sufficient
man-power to provide the necessary rein-
forcements for those many divisions of
brave men who are fighting in New
Guinea and who are falling every day
from sickness and wounds; with the pre-
vailing man-power shortage it is only
with great difficulty that reinforcements
can be kept up.” However, War Cabinet,
having called into consultation the War
Commitments Committee and the Chief
of the General Staff, had “just made a
comprehensive and exhaustive review,”
and agreed to “measures which” would
“balance the position.” The “measures”
were expressed in these words:
It was decided that not more than 20,000
men should be withdrawn from the Army
for civil industry, over and above normal
casualty discharges for the 10 months
ended October, 1943. The requirements
of industry up to June, 1944, are to be
provided also by the withdrawal of 20,000
men from the munitions industries, the
routine discharge of 30,000 men from the
services and the diversion of 30,000 addi-
tional women to war production. Routine
discharges from the services are expected
to total 40,000, of whom it is calculated
that 30,000 will be fit for work.
That was said on October 13. It did
not satisfy the Government’s critics, but
in this instance they could not object, as
they have objected on other occasions,
that for the disclosure of Ministerial
policy or the imparting of information
important to the people Parliament had
been ignored in favor of some A.L.P. or
trade-union conference. However, Par-
liament was out of action and Mr. Curtin
unavailable when Mr. Forde returned to
the man-power subject, as he did last
week. He said then, with the cus-
tomary exhibition of conscious virtue,
that the Army was “ahead of its
obligation to release 20,000 men, at
the rate of 2000 a month, for the
food front,” having, with increase of - the
rate to 2500 a month, discharged more
than 12,700 men, “in addition to normal
discharges.”
Had the gentleman let it go at that
there might have been no nasty reactions
in any quarter. But he belongs to the
school of spouters for whom too much
is always plenty, and he made such a
botch of his statement that when cabled
summaries and extracts were published
U.S. Senators, always inclined to be cen-
sorious since the Equator was made the
northern boundary for militia service, re-
sumed their railing at Australia, and the
Australian representative had to reply
that Mr. Forde had been misunderstood.
As reported in the friendly “Age,” Mr.
Forde said that “because of the man-
power position,” the military establish-
ment “will be reduced by more than
90.000 men in a period of 12 months, by
restricting the monthly intake into the
Army and accelerating discharges,” the
90.000 to include “the 20,000 special
releases to industry.” In another report
the words “more than” -did not appear,
but the Minister was quoted to the effect
that “the Government decided there
was no alternative but to reduce the estab-
lishment by restricting considerably the
monthly intake and providing for accel-
erated discharges, in addition to those
regularly occurring because of unfitness
in other causes.” To this the paper added:
“He hinted that this policy might be
carried on into another year by stating
‘This rate of reduction will continue to
apply while the present decision of the
Government stands.’ ”
Startled at the storm of which he was
the unwitting centre, Mr. Curtin’s No. 2
tried to explain his explanation. He said
there had been “no new decision to
reduce the Army next year by 90,000
men”:
The reduction followed the decision last
October to allocate 20,000 men to industry,
including food. The other 70,000 were
those who would leave the forces because
of unfitness'and similar causes.
It was “unfortunate” that “a short
extract” from “a statement made in
answer to criticism in the Federal Parlia-
ment” should have been taken out of its
context, ,
My statement outlined the fact that the
Army had committed itself to 20,000 dis-
charges for primary industries for a 10
months’ period. The decision was taken
by Cabinet after full consideration by the
War Commitments Committee. My further
statement that this number, together with
normal wastage from the Army for physical
unfitness and other causes, would total
approximately 90,000 discharges for the
year ended June 30, 1944, read by itself
created the impression that there had been
some recent decision to further reduce the
strength of the Army by 90,000 men, but
such is entirely wrong.
In the “explanation” there was nothing
about “restricting the monthly intake into
the Army.” Minister Owen Dixon was
reported to have said in Washington that
“as against the special release”—he made
it “20,000 to 30,000 men” —“there will be
the normal intake 6f men reaching 18
years”; but Mr. Forde chose to be silent
on this important point. To mention only
one aspect, it will be monstrously unfair
if, during the rest of the war, youths of
military age are exempted from the stern
obligation imposed on previous 18-year-
olds. If the Army does not want them
there is room for all those who are fit in
the Air Force, and Mr. Forde has said
(Mr. Drakeford also) that “Australia is
committed to increase the Air Force con-
siderably.” He added, however, that
“much of the increase” had “already been
accomplished” ; and in the circumstances
“much” is not sufficient. Had Parlia-
ment been in session he would certainly
have been called upon to have another
shot at explaining his “explanation,”
Beyond question a reduction of home-
force strength is necessary, and many
men could be usefully mustered out of
the Army and out of munition factories,
droves of inspectors among them, for
the production of essentials, particularly
foodstuffs. But in the process there
should be a real man-power review, as
part and parcel of radical changes, among
them the setting up of one responsible
authority and the publication of essential
and checkable facts. As things are, there
are many authorities or meddlers, the
nation is left in the dark and the position
has got out of hand.
It is a position brought about in the
first place by Mr. Ward. That gentleman,
when Minister of Labor and National
Service, with Mr. Garden as his offsider,
drew up a list of reservations and priori-
ties which discriminated in favor of the
Commonwealth Bank and against the
trading banks, exempted the trade-union
hierarchy, radio announcers. State poli-
ticians (there are 449 not holding office).
Government clerks and so forth, and gave
protection to coalminers, slaughtermen
and others who go slow and go on strike
when the caprice seizes them.
In New Zealand and in the U.S.A.
there is no such privilege for any section.
N.Z. coalminers of military age are rated
as reservists, and can be called up when
they misbehave. Last month 257 coal-
miners employed in the Strongman and
Liverpool State mines who had deli-
berately reduced their daily output—in
one case from 531 tons to 320 tons and
in the other from 458 tons to 292 tons —
were removed from the list of reservists
by order of an Armed Forces Appeal
Board, their appeals being dismissed;
and the Army took the necessary steps
to gather them in. . Simultaneously the
Minister of Industrial Man-power pub-
lished a precise and detailed list of the
number of fit men provisionally exempted
from njilitary service by Armed Forces
Appeal Boards “on the ground of public
interest” and their occupations.
The total on December 31 was 39,014,
28,623 being married. Of the 39,014,
15,786 (5740 single and 10,046 married)
are working in the primary group of in-
dustries, farms, mines, forests and fish-
eries. In Secondary Industries and
Power, 9136 men, 1771 of whom are
single, are engaged; in Construction,
1831 (105 single); in Transport and Com-
munication, 6680 (1397 single); in Com-
merce, Finance, Storage* 1757 (155 single);
in Administration, Professions and Miscel-
laneous, 3824 (1223 single), 420 (392 single)
being students. In the Public Service,
excluding the Post and Telegraph Depart-
ment and the departments of Railways,
Education and Public Works, there were
only 53 single men out of a total of 523.
Banks, insurance and trustee companies
retained five single men out of 384 pro-
visionally exempted, and 63 men (13
single) were held to be sufficient for
“hotels, entertainments, cleaning, domes-
tic and other miscellaneous services.”
How different in Australia, where Govern-
ment departments abound in sturdy
young men, where the Trade flourishes
like the green upas-tree and where the
biggest city has become a happy hunting-
ground for “sports,” whose service duties,
if any, do not interfere with their pursuit
of £ s. d,
Australian Labor could learn many
things from the Labor party on the other
side of the Tasman. The Curtin Govern-
ment, in office since October 7, 1941, has
never taken the public into its confidence
as to the number of militarily fit single
and married men in protected callings.
The need for a precise and detailed
report such as was issued last month in
New Zealand when Parliament was sit-
ting is obvious and pressing.
The Prophets Arise.
Prophets are suddenly springing up all
over the landscape foretelling that there
is a long, hard war ahead in the Pacific,
Stale stuff to anyone capable of looking
beyond glamorous reporting to the hard
actualities of war that the fighting men
know, it is a strange new theme for some
of those who are talking with the air
of discoverers.
Two features stand out: (1) the extra-
ordinary contrast to the pre-Federal elec-
tions optimism, which had everything all
over bar the shouting (a caustic realist
has amended this to “bar the fighting”);
(2) the fact that it coincides with the
latest war loan appeal, just as the ultra-
optimism coincided with another sort of
appeal. It is “while making a First Vic-
tory Loan speech” that Dr. Evatt de-
dares : “Despite great military successes,
the United Nations have still a long way
to go before the fall of Japan is immi-
nent.” Therefore, “complacent satisfac-
tion at what has been accomplished is a
most dangerous thing.”
Japan still remains in firm possession of
islands and territories so vast and so rich
that they almost constitute a second
Japanese empire. From that second empire
Japan is drawing large quantities of rubber
and tin, iron ore, ■ quinine and bountiful
supplies of other products.
Dr. Evatt could have enlarged on this
point. It has been mapped out that the
whole of the area that is described as
Hitler’s Fortress Europe could be fitted
into far less than half of the area that
Japan now rules. Together, British
Malaya, French Indo-China, the Nether-
lands East Indies, the Philippines,
Thailand and Burma alone total just
on 2,000,000 square miles with a
population of over 140,000,000. Add-
ing to these Japan 'itself and other
areas overrun and added to that
empire since Japan first began ex-
panding, the grand totals soar up to more
than 3,000,000 square miles and more
than 400,000,000 people. Of this lot,
some 20,000 square miles have so far
been taken back, while what is left
is the richest natural area in the world.
And a determined enemy is welding this
conquered region into a war machine that,
given time, will dwarf the military might
the other end of the Axis has at its com-
mand.
Dr. Evatt has committed himself to
no exact prophecy as to how long it may
take to drive the Japs out of that empire,
in total fulfilment of the Cairo objec-
tives. Mr. Forde is more venturesome:
“It is unlikely that Germany will be de-
feated in the next 12 months, and it will
take two years to defeat Japan.”
These and other Government prophets
of a long war are joined in this strange
new chorus by a widespread medley of
voices. Rear-Admiral Muirhead-Gould
reminds us that “it has taken 18 months
to occupy part of the and de-
clares that “we have a much bigger job
ahead of us before we are going to take
back the Dutch East Indies, Malaya and
the Philippines and get at Japan proper.’’
Mr. Kluckhohn, a New York “Times” rep-
resentative in New Guinea, reports that
“You can get an odds-on bet in Aus-
tralia that the war against Japan will be
over before Germany is crushed.” He
finds this “overoptimism” unwarranted
for a number of reasons, among them
that “Japan has saved much of her air
force for home defence.” Mr. Kluck-
hohn is not directly connected with the
loan appeal, and perhaps it is only a
coincidence that his report, with others
in the same strain, all happen to be
appearing now instead of a few months
back.
Though Australia has hitherto seen little
of such findings—particularly those sud-
denly coming from its political leaders —
they have been fairly common all through
elsewhere. A former Chief of Staff of
the U.S. Fleet, Rear-Admiral Yates Stir-
ling, was warning in February that “the
war in the Pacific is as yet anybody’s
war”; even suggesting that “the Japs
may yet win.” Former U.S. Chief of
Staff General March earlier declared that
the “war hasn’t even started; wait until
Germany and Japan begin fighting on
their own soil!” The present Chief of
Staff of the U.S. Fleet, Admiral King,
has pointed out: “As we progress in the
Pacific the enemy’s line of communica-
tions will be shortened ; the thorough-
ness of his preparations for defence will
improve, increasing the difficulty of vic-
tory.” And to these can be added (with
reservations) Chungking’s word for it that
“Japan is reckoning on 100 years of fight-
ing, if necessary.”
The prophets can all be left to their
job. Whether they plump for two years
or one hundred, they are all tackling
something that is actually beyond predic-
tion, except by a fluke. But it is ques-
tionable whether the local intermittent and
variable onslaughts on the public mind
are as serviceable to the country’s war
effort as their sponsors seem to imagine.
A chart of them since the present Com-
monwealth Government first took office
would resemble that of a fever patient.
The idea appears to be that the public
has to be coddled along with carefully
calculated doses alternately of cheer-up
and gloom. It suggests a psychology de-
partment sitting up late at night continu-
ously thinking up new stunts.
This time, for once, the propagandists
are not talking through their hats. The
war facts are only too certainly as stated ;
if anything, they are understated. That
this may not be as fully appreciated as
it ought to be—if it were the current
loan would overfill overnight can
be very largely put down to two
causes: (1) the persistent boosting up of
comparatively minor successes into im-
portant victories (as goes on happening
in news columns side by side with the
loan appeals); (2) the sort of political
war leadership which alternately has the
war won or not won by a long chalk not
as the always plain enough facts pro-
claim but as expediency dictates.


PLAIN ENGLISH
King Arthur Cuts Loose.
Last Saturday “S. M. Herald,” laughing
at both the superstition of ominous
numbers and that which holds it bad
luck to go celebrating birthdays in ad-
vance, marked its 113th ahead of time by
changing make-up to give front-page
news on its front page—hitherto sacred
to ads. —and otherwise going gay, having
“contrived to grow young gracefully with
increasing age.”
The very next issue the “Herald” was
off the streets. So was the “Daily Tele-
graph.”
The “D.T.” that Saturday had come
out more or less in the nude. It had
gone to see the censor, who’d told it it
mustn’t be seen abroad in a colorful strip
of print run together by Australian News-
paper Proprietors’ Association chairman
R. A. Henderson, who is “S. M. Herald’s”
g.m.
The effect, if flaunted in the public
gaze, would have been to give an impres-
sion that King Arthur Calwell, who
controls censorship, had been controlling
it for political ends and not, as Mr. Cur-
tin had repeatedly insisted it should be
used, to prevent information from reach-
ing the enemy.
In a manner of speaking “D.T.”
complied. It didn’t flaunt the par-
ticular piece of print condemned but
where it should have been there was
nothing at all. There was only, about the
top, a rather dull piece of print manu-
factured by the same King Arthur, then
a very skimpy snip of the Henderson
print, and right down at the fringe an-
other small snip of the latter print.
Nothing else.
That was, of course, improper.
It as good as said the censor had
cut the missing piece out, and to
suggest such a thing is dead against the
rules. On the other hand, it would have
been also against the rules —perhaps more
so —if the “D.T.” had defied the order
and flaunted the offending piece of print.
There was another choice —to flaunt it
without asking the Censor what he
thought of it. Having asked, and been
told No, the “D.T.” felt it had to do
something; so it came out as described.
Next day the “Sunday Telegraph”
didn’t get far. Peace officers and so forth
swarmed in and there was no issue of
the “Sunday Telegraph” on the streets.
On Monday the “Herald” in turn tried
to come out with a line of print that
knocked the “Telegraph’s” most lively
effort into a cocked hat. King Arthur
intervened again, with knights in uniform
and plain clothes, and at least one with
a pointed pistol. Frofn Pymble to
Vaucluse the great majority of the
“Herald’s” admirers were out in the
street on Monday morning looking up
and down for it in vain. For the first
time in 113 years—or close on —Granny
failed to show up for breakfast, So did
the “Telegraph,” and the “Sun,” which
threw in its lot with them, was missing
at lunch, though copies of the “Daily
Mirror,” also under the ban, could be
obtained.
There, at this writing, the doings end.
Sydneysiders can take consolation only
from the thought that King Arthur prob-
ably has a splitting headache. No doubt
in their hundreds of thousands they would
like to see it all brought up in Parlia-
ment. That, of course, is denied them,
the House at Canberra being shut up.
Meanwhile, the majority inhabitants of
that House, King Arthur among them,
are shaping up to ask at a referendum
for a constitutional guarantee of what,
in the case of these newspapers, King
Arthur has tried to snuff out —“Neither
the Commonwealth nor a State may
make any law for abridging the freedom
of speech or of expression.”
In Again.
Not once or twice in Queensland’s poli-
tical story the party in office, and thus in
control of the election arrangements, has
won a majority of seats in Parliament
with a minority of votes in the constitu-
encies. With many baflot papers to be
counted, it was not certain at the begin-
ning of the week whether this had hap-
pened again, but it was clear that Labor
was in again with a reduced majority,
which would have been reduced still
more had electorates been redistributed
on a democratic basis and had preferen-
tial voting been retained. In fact, the
party which has run State affairs since
1915, except for a break of two years or
so during the depression period, though
it has seldom been successful at Senate
elections, will be grossly overrepresented
once more.
The Continuous Government restored
not only the first-past-the-post system,
but proxy voting in the case of absent
service men, who were authorised to
nominate as proxies “the Premier or his
deputy, the Opposition-leader or his
deputy, a relative or a friend.” Mem-
bers of the forces in the State on polling
day were permitted to vote at any poll-
ing booth on making a declaration of
identity. And postal-voting facilities were
granted to -“members of the Civil Con-
struction Corps and employees in muni-
tions and other war industries who may
be in isolated parts of the State or out-
side the State.” So tljp electoral rolls
were a rather poor joke. Even so they
showed freakish differences —16,032 elec-
tors in Logan, 13,453 in Wynnum, 13,240
in Oxley, 13,150 in Enoggera, 13,056 in
South Brisbane, 12,880 in Ithaca and
12,667 in Kelvin Grove, along with 6801
in Carpentaria, 7434 in Warrego, 7640 in
Gympie, 8500 in Maranoa, 8524 in Isis,
8742 in Cook and 8894 in Carnarvon.
There are 62 seats in the one Chamber,
and the Continuous crowd expects to win
42 as a regular thing. It may have 35
or 36 in the next Parliament. The Coun-
try party will be the strongest opposition
group with 13 or 14, Labor has appar-
ently lost Bowen to the Communist Pater-
son, and Mundingburra to the nominee
of a breakaway A.L.P. branch, while it
has evidently failed to regain Bundaberg
and Cairns from the Barnes brothers,
one of whom calls himself an “Andrew
Fisher Laborite” and the other a
“King O’Malley Laborite.” In these
contests first-past-the-post told against its
authors, but it served them well in other
electorates, however it served the people
—but then the people don’t count.
Investors and Gamblers.
For the Fourth Liberty Loan an amount
of £125,000,000 was set, and after some
heroic eleventh-hour operations.an over-
subscription was announced. But the
number of individual contributors was
1,82,300 short of the 750,000 asked for.
When the loan was laboring it was
here pointed out that lotteries in four
States and other forms of gambling were
competing furiously with it, there having
been three N.S.W. lotteries raking in
£75,000, exclusive of State tax, in a week
and four Queensland lotteries, prizes in
one case amounting to £32,000, in a fort-
night, together with brisk business
at the Hobart and Perth concerns and
a massive we.eklv increase in punting on
racehorses. The obvious conclusion was
emphasised.
It has become necessary to ban all forms
of gambling while war loans are on the
market unless payouts are made in bonds
and war-savings certificates.
The Labor Government had other
ideas. Having launched the First Vic-
tory Loan, for which £150,000,000 is re-
quired, it decided not only to let the lot-
tery promoters go their hardest but to
authorise racing, with the familiar accom-
paniments, on Easter Monday, the last
day of a holiday period which no other
Allied country is known to have enjoyed.
It was hopefully arranged to send war-
loan agents to Randwick and Fleming-
ton on Easter Saturday ancl Monday. Mr
Forde found the results appalling. At
Flemington on Monday, he said, the
war-loan office received only £4BO from
28 applications, although there was a
crowd of tens of thousands, and even
this paltry amount was greater than the
sums subscribed at Randwick. At that
course on the Saturday although there
was a tote turnover of £161,683, the war-
loan agents “received a total that would
not have been more than a fair bet tor
a big punter.” A fair bet for a big
punter these days is £lOOO and three-
figure wagers are common. Bookmakers,
for their part, consider themselves ill
done by if they don’t handle six times
as much as goes into the tote, and they
lay such dynamite prices that they can t
help winning if they don t go punting
themselves One “operator’s” dean-up
on Easter Saturday (and he is tar trom
being the biggest “operator”) was £6OOO.
Thorp fnllnwprl a rush to huv vearlincs
there tollowed a rusn 10 ouy yedniugs
at fancy prices. In three days 32/ year-
lings, four-fifths of which will turn
out worthless, were sold for 168,235
guineas.
For this feature of the betting orgy the
Government should have been prepared,
„ X/fplKmirnP nnp Hflv last
seeing that m Melbourne one d Y
month 78 yearlings fetched 50,395
guineas. It is, common talk that a lot of
the buying has been done for persons
new to the racing business, though not
necessarily hard-faced men who are
doing well out of the war; but although
the authorities are requiring war-loan
subscribers to state how they got the
money there is no inquisition as to buyers
of yearlings and punters who bet in thou-
sands. Safe deposits are also sacrosanct.
Meanwhile transactions in house prop-
erty are subject to the most stringent
regulations. Owners are permitted to sell
only at prices 10 per cent, above Feb-
ruary, 1942, valuations, which means in
all cases a great deal less than they could
get in a free market. Investments in real
estate are barred unless the investor has
made what the Treasury considers “satis-
factory investments in war loan,” “satis-
factory” being one-fifth of £5OO to £lOOO,
one-third of £3OOO, one-half-of £5OOO,
£5OOO of £7OOO and equal amounts after
£lO,OOO. A person man-powered to a
distant place who has let his house and
wants to buy another is reckoned an in-
vestor under the regulation.
The First Victory Loan must be filled,
but it is evident that the middle class
will have to do the filling. With the new
burden of a 25 per cent, surcharge added
to the highest income-tax rates in history,
the middle class has had a raw deal
from the Government which is so indul-
gent to Bung and the Brewer and the
Bookie and the Big Punter; still, it will
do its duty, as it has done always. Though
threatened with extinction, it will support
Australian fighting men while it has a
shot in the locker.
Survey of Eire.
Henry J. Taylor, a Scripps-Howard
writer, surveys Eire’s economy for the
American nation.
Business is booming, wages are rising,
crops are lush, foreign money flows in
and Irish goods flow down the Shannon.
Ownership of factories and workshops,
power stations and transportation lines,
warehouse change and dock systems, long
held in Britain, has been steadily liquidated
into Irish banks and passed into private
Irish possession. Irishmen are now deter-
mined to have every ton of Irish com-
merce carried in Irish ships. Irish ship-
yards have built or are building enough
vessels to transport Eire’s, entire overseas
trade, and Eire has gone into the world
market: bought 12 ships in the last six
months and on Feb. 1 will offer to buy
12 more.
Cordell Hull came in there with a cold
veto. It is not altogether a case of “our-
selves alone”; Taylor states that “more
sons of the shamrock have left Eire and
joined the British army than the total of
those who served in southern Ireland
regiments in the last war.”
WOUNDED IN ACTION.
“Gout? No; I dropped a brick on it!”


PANPRUff
the scalp_ clean and fresh. Mc-
Mahon s is quickly effective for scurf,
itching and dryness of the scalp and
for falling hair. Good, too, for
cradle-cap . . . because McMahon’s
may be used on the tenderest scalp.
McMahon's Hair Restorer promotes
growth, keeps the hair lustrous and
soft.
Obtainable from Chemists, Hair-
dressers and Stores.
Wholesale: Craig & Altkcn Pty. Ltd.,
Sydney.
After a few appli-
cations of Mc-
Mahon's Hair Re-
2
HAIR RESTORER
(f
»1!
4#
*****
3*5»
*
miwm.
7
Here is a gypsum finishing plaster which is
really tough ... a hardwall plaster which, used neat, gives a smooth, glossy, pure
white, sanitary finish, capable of standing up to all the hard wear in the world.
Being free from alkali and lime, this Plaster will not stain wallpapers or saponify
paint. Immediately the wall dries out, therefore, an ideal base for any decoration
is provided. C.S.R. Hardwall Plaster is specially ground and processed, not only
to ensure ease of mixing and working, but to
facilitate its gauging with lime putty when less
hard surfaces are wanted. It is. of course, essential
that this work be done by expert plasterers.
Packed in Jute Bags.
PL
A C.S.R. PRODUCT
THE COLONIAL SUGAR REFINING COMPANY LTD.
SYDNEY . . . MELBOURNE . . . BRI S B A N E
(Building Materials Division)
ADELAIDE . . . PERTH
IN MIDDLE-AGE-
KIDNEYS OFTEN
NEED THIS HELP
Many people going into middle age note a
slowing down of the healthy bladder action of
youth. While this is to be expected to a degree,
if passage is frequent and scanty, accompanied
by burning and smarting. Nature may be warn-
ing that there is something wrong with your
kidneys or bladder.
The kidneys are Nature’s chief way of taking
the excess acids and waste out of the blood.
Most people pass about 3 pints a day or about
3 pounds of waste.
An excess of acids or poisons in your blood,
when due to funtional kidney disorders, may
be the cause of nagging backache, rheumatic
pains, leg pains, loss of pep and energy, getting
up nights, swelling, puffiness under the eyes,
headaches and dizziness.
Don’t wait! Ask your chemist or store for
DOAN’S BACKACHE KIDNEY PILLS, used
successfully by millions for over 40 years. They
give happy relief and will help the 15 miles of
kidney tubes flush out poisonous waste from
your blood. Get DOAN’S BACKACHE
KIDNEY PILLS to-day. They are a special
remedy for the kidneys and will give quick and
lasting benefit. Old and young alike can take
DOAN’S BACKACHE KIDNEY PILLS with
perfect safety.
POLITICAL POINTS
Calwell is No. 19 on the list of Com-
monwealth Ministers. In the House on
March 10 he said this:
In view of the rise of authoritarianism
throughout Europe, many people feel that
the Commonwealth Parliament should afford
them additional safeguards and protection.
We propose to recognise the existence of
that feeling.
On March 16 he was on hand with his
voice and vote on Dr. Evatt’s addition
to the referendum proposals, “Neither
the Commonwealth nor a State may
make any law for abridging the freedom
of speech or of expression,” saying “I
wish to see that permanently included in
the Constitution.” A month later he was
ordering the seizure of issues of a Sunday
paper and all four Sydney daily papers.
No. 19 in the nineteenth hole, drunk with
power!
Exit W. M. Hughes from his fifth party
(Labor, National Labor, Nationalist,
Australian and U.A.P.) —expelled. Harri-
son (Wentworth, N.S.W.) steps into his
place as deputy leader. For once in his
political life Billy had nothing to say.
In fact, he didn’t recover his voice for
three days; then he said Calwell’s cen-
sorship of the “Sunday Telegraph,’
“Daily Telegraph” and “S. M. Herald”
was a cow, or words to that effect.
The expected happened in Queensland,
where Labor was returned with a reduced
majority. With preferential voting, a
democratic redistribution of seats, clean
rolls and proper precautions against im-
position the majority might have vanished
altogether. As it is, the Continuous
Government will have 34 to 36 seats,
Nicklin’s Country party 13 or 14 and
Chandler’s People’s party seven or eight,
with the Barnes brothers and Paterson,
the Communist, also on the Opposition
benches, though Nicklin and Chandler
\vill*no doubt say that if Labor wants
Paterson to sit behind it it is welcome to
him. ,
From Adelaide:
The feeling here is that Playford’s party has a
chance of winning the State election outright,
though seven Labor men and two Playford
supporters were returned unopposed. Another
idea is that with McGillivray (Chaffey), Stott
(Ridley) and Fletcher (Gambier) strong in their
electorates, Independents may hold the balance
of power. Labor is so cocky that it talks of
unseating the Premier himself. It avers that
the ban on- racing has euchred him, and that
the invasion of Federal Ministers, among them
Ward and perhaps Calwell, and a parcel of
N.S.W. rank-and-file members will complete
his discomfiture
But that was before Calwell, doubtless
with Ward’s warm approval (they are
cronies), ordered the Commonwealth
Peace Officers to seize issues of the four
Sydney dailies and a Sunday paper.
The thirty-third Parliament of N. S.
Wales has had its last sitting. And what’s
its history? “A blank,” as the lady said.
General Mac Arthur had an overpower-
ing majority in the Illinois Republican
primary, and, though his one opponent is
described as weak, Illinois is the second
State of the Union, with a population ex-
ceeding Australia’s, A MacArthur letter
to a Republican Congressman has been
published, and has been construed to
mean that he will accept a nomination.
“I have not sought office, nor do I seek
it,” the general has said since ; but he
made another reference to the people’s
“sacred duty of choosing and electing
their chief executive” as being “beyond
the sphere of any individual coercion or
decision.”
Ward is going to “Papua, New Guinea
and some of the adjacent islands” with
“Mr. John Donovan, his private secre-
tary” (Mr. John Donovan is a defeated
Labor member), and Mr. Halligan, of
the Department of External Territories. It
should be an animated pilgrimage if Dar-
linghurst’s pride and joy repeats in the
hearing of Hubert Murray’s men that
the “Fuzzy Wuzzies” have been “shabbily
treated,” and in the hearing of old settlers
that it was their job to defend Papua
and the Mandated Territory, that having
been one of his “Labor principles.”
Gambles of all descriptions are “in-
vestments” to the Sydney dailies, and on
GOOD-BYE, MISTER CHIPS!
Easter Saturday and Monday £322,490
was “invested” in tote tickets at Rand-
wick. And there were so many three-
figure wagers that the Sunday papers
seem to have grown tired of recording
them; a daily wound up with the state-
ment that the Sydney Cup winner was
“backed for £20,000 in the last 10 minutes
of betting by thousand-pound punters.”
Yes, there is a war loan on in the market
(if doubts were entertained in any quarter
they would be removed by the sight of
Government lottery queues), and quite
small subscribers have been officially re-
quired to declare how they got the money.
No such question has been put to “thou-
sand-pound punters” or to buyers of
yearlings at fancy prices.
The Sydney conference of Lang’s Aus-
tralian Labor party coincided with a
Melbourne conference of the other Aus-
tralian Labor party. The only point on
which the conferences agreed was that
they would have no truck with Com-
munists. Conscription was not mentioned
at the Melbourne show, though it is
known there were antis there, but the
Langsters decided that an embargo on
conscription should be inserted in the
Constitution. However, a proposal that
“the State Government should subsidise
all schools and charitable institutions of
all denominations” was shelved till a
non-election year, being too palpably
loaded with dynamite.
L. R. Macgregor, Director-General of
the Australian War Supplies Procurement
Mission in U.S.A., to an Adelaide
reporter:
I have come to establish contacts with
Government departments, State Govern-
ment instrumentalities and business people
concerned in obtaining supplies from the
United States
Then he added that his first appointment
was a tour of Government munition fac-
tories and his second a meeting with
union secretaries at the Trades Hall. It’s
a wise civil servant who knows his own
masters.
“5.M.H.,” praising herself on Saturday
for having had her face lifted, modestly
suggested that “the overwhelming vote of
confidence which the Curtin Administra-
tion received” was due to her “emphasis-
ing,” against “some readers’ ” opposition,
that there was “no adequate alternative
to a Labor Government.” On Monday
Labor Minister Calwell was “emphasis-
ing” his gratitude to Granny by refusing
to let her show herself in the streets.
The housing shortage is such that
when a dwelling in a Brisbane suburb
was auctioned at the ceiling price (£1850)
there were 60 bidders, and they had to
go to a ballot. This when gamblers can
bet in thousands and pay thousands for
yearlings and no questions asked.
In some munitions districts near Mel-
bourne Federal authorities have put up
fibro-cement shacks for munitions
workers,, two-roomed with a combined
kitchen-drawing-room. They are in un-
sewered areas, but the nocturnal gentle-
man calls when he isn’t busy elsewhere.
Rents charged are 13s, to 15s. The Syd-
ney Government is to run up “40 to 50”
fibro-cement houses at The
local council complains that it has not
seen the plans. If this is a foretaste of
new order post-war housing God help us.
The cost of toting “Balance Sheet”
Thornton to the London trade-union con-
ference and back is to be debited to the
taxpayers. Thornton is the Communist
who was a hands-upper in 1941 till the
war became holy, and who boasted of
the war strikes he helped to whip up. It
is a black disgrace that this anti-Austra-
lian agitator should be sent to Britain as
a representative trade-unionist at the
people’s expense—the worst feature of a
wild record of waste and extravagance
for which “the capitalists” are sure to be
blamed when the jig is up.
Ackland, the British aristocrat who has
been financing the Common Wealth party
(“Communism in a top hat” to its enemies
in the other parties), has notified the
“10,000 to 15,000 members” that he is
finished, and that if they don’t “pay up”
the party will be finished as well. The
“10,000 to 15,000 members,” while pre-
sumably willing to share the wealth, have
a rooted objection to contributing any—
a common characteristic of “share-the-
wealth” parties; all except Ackland, a
company director named Good (he found
£17,000 of the £20,000 party fund) and
R. W. G. Mackay, a solicitor from Syd-
ney. Mackay went to England before
the war with a smart line of talk, a pro-
claimed contempt for the limited field that
Australian politics afforded him and the
prospect of a Labor nomination. He got
one, and after two defeats joined the
Common Wealth crowd. Now a seat in
Parliament is a more distant dream than
ever.
This sort of advertisement is appearing
in small suburban papers;
What Is the Eureka Youth League?
The Eureka Youth League is an inde-
pendent, self-governing Youth Organisation,
open to all young people between the ages
of 14 to 25. The League can offer you all
types of sport, football, tennis, cricket,
table-tennis and so on; socials and dances,
hikes, picnics, holiday camps, comfortable
clubrooms with library. Classes in art,
writing, public speaking.
To which ought to be added, but isn't,
that candidates must write or spout Com-
munism.
From the Division of Information and
Extension Services, Department of Agri-
culture, N.S.W.:
The department has issued instructions
which will have the effect of confining
supplies of mill offals from the mills to
individual stockowners, produce merchants
and co-operative societies. It is desired to
ensure the distribution of these offals
through the usual trade channels without
intervention of intermediate parties. En-
couragement is -also being given to the
utilisation of wheatmeal for stock, especially
by pigowners, as this will, to a fair ex-
tent, overcome the shortage of bran and
pollard.
Now we can get on with the war.
On the evidence of the New York
“Times’s” Ottawa correspondent there is
strong Canadian support for De Valera
in Canada, and that in both language
groups. One reason given is that “al-
though more than-100 Canadian airmen
have been forced down in Eire only 14
have been interned,” whereas all the
American airmen who came down in
Russia-in-Asia have been interned. It is
added that “the Canadian Government
was not consulted before the United
States Note was delivered,” and on being
informed of what was intended “advised
against publication on the ground that it
might cause misgiving regarding the
American attitude among all members of
the British Commonwealth and all the
small nations.”


( ytland^
PRE-WAR STRENGTH
Pure Grape Brandy
PERSONAL ITEMS
Philip Albert Martin Mcßride became
M.H.R. for Grey (S.A.) after the Scullin
debacle in 1931, and stayed in the Reps,
until 1937. Mcßride belonged to the same
party in S.A. as Oliver Badman, though
U.A.P. and C.P. respectively in Can-
berra, and, as Badman wanted a change
to the Reps, from the Senate, they
arranged a swap, Badman resigning to
contest Grey, while Mcßride retired and
was appointed by the S.A. Parlia-
ment to fill the Senate vacancy left by
Badman. When Mcßride lost his seat
in the Senate last year Badman also
lost Grey. Mcßride kept up the U.A.P.’s
end of the wicket more vigorously and
ably than most of his colleagues, and
after July he’ll be missed from the Oppo-
sition benches, and a pleasant individual
will be missed from the lobbies.
Gordon, called Grahame:
Last year a drawing of bush balladist Jim
Grahame turned up in the mail and was here
reproduced. It was done by Campbell McCaus-
land, son of a farmer in Jim’s own Leeton
(N.S.W.) country, and a very good piece of
work it was, too. Jim, who sights his 70th mile-
stone ahead this year, has lately been looking
JIM GRAHAME.
Sydney over on one of his occasional visits—
he was last down 10 years ago—and Frith
took the oppoftunity to do the accompanying
version of Henry Lawson’s old mate. Jim has
been known to Bulletin readers for slightly
over 44 years. His name is Jim Gordon.
Lawson turned it to Grahame in a Bulletin
story beginning “My mate James Grahame has
a long, scraggy neck like myself.” A bit Liter
Jim had some verses which he signed “Jim
Graham” published in The Bulletin. “Law-
son,” says Jim, “was a bit annoyed and said
‘lt’s not Gra-ham, it’s Gra-hame!’” Lawson
also used the name in “The Scots of Riverina,”
into which he brought a ficfionised version of
Jim’s father. Jim’s own first verse to be pub-
lished in The Bulletin, “Boundary Riding,”
appeared in the 1900 Christmas number. This
time down Jim and Frith were yarning when
Jack Moses appeared. Jim and Jack had known
each other so long ago that they had forgotten
it. When they remembered it was of a day
when they met in Leeton and were young
enough to wear out a good deal of what passed
for pavement in a back street there, marching
up and down reciting verses at each other.
Hearing that the Burnside (S.A.) Coun-
cil proposed doing something about es-
tablishing a hospital, Otto von Rieben
a few weeks back handed over as a gift
his beautiful home and its four and a
half acres of gardens in Kensington. Both
home and surroundings have been
specially well known to Adelaide war
workers in the two wars —a lovely set-
ting for countless war-effort appeals. The
benefactor had lived there for 37 years,
and had watched Burnside grow up from
a village to its present status of city.
Now 82, he was in the long ago a part-
ner of The Bulletin’s late editor S. H.
Prior in the “Barrier Miner” at Broken
Hill.
When former Mayor of Hobart Edwin
J, Rogers and his wife had their diamond
wedding on April 9 congratulations in-
cluded those of the King and Queen.
The former Mayor had been handed the
C.M.G. by the King when George VI
was here at the time as Duke of York.
Music, Rotary, civic affairs, the Benevo-
lent Society, Tourist Association, Stock
Exchange and Masonic interests have all
had Rogers’s active support, while the
Tasmanian Sanitorium, the Blind, Deaf
and Dumb Institute, Bush Nursing and
the Red Cross have all had a great help-
ing hand from his wife.
“C. 8.” farewells Ambrose Pratt:
An extraordinary variety of interests kept
Ambrose Pratt, just dead in Melbourne at 70,
an exceptionally vigorous man until his last
illness smote him. To have published over 30
novels (some of which were translated into
foreign languages), zoological, economic and
historical works, several biographies (including
one of the late David Syme), swarms of
brochures and pamphlets on industrial eco-
nomics and a couple af plays (one of which
got a metropolitan performance) would be
sufficient for most men. In addition, Pratt
crowded into his life a legal practice in Sydney
in his young years, extensive travel, a North-
clitfean commission to write for London “Daily
Mail” as an itinerant correspondent, 11 years
as an “Age” leader winter, the editorship and
ownership of an Australian mining and indus-
trial journal, and as well as all this was a
leading Melbourne business magnate. He
landed into the last-named position after a visit
to Malaya and Thailand, where he succeeded
in convincing sundry people that a dozen tin-
mining ventures British syndicates had aban-
doned were workable propositions. He had
also to convince the Thailand Government, ajid,
as a reward, the king of that Asiatic princi-
pality bestowed on him the title of Com-
mander of the Most Exalted Order of the White
Elephant, a distinction that went well with his
dapper, dignified appearance and his Van Dyke
beard, snow-white in later years. Shortly be-
fore the Japanese invasion Pratt was Consul for
Thailand. He was one of the founders and a
leading spokesman of the Australian Industries
Protection League, president of the Zoological
Board of Victoria and one of the originators
of the League of Youth Movement. He was
born at Forbes (N.S.W.) and educated at Syd-
ney Grammar and Sydney University.
Knight Steve Morell, of Melbourne,
who has thrown in his job of Vice-Consul
for Spain, is a member of the Tramway
Board. He doesn’t seek the limelight,
and hence isn’t so well known to the
present generation as to that which
patronised the Orient Hotel, where years
ago he gave away one of the very best
counter lunches in the Yarra city. Foy’s
now occupy the site of his old hostelry,
where he made much money when the
stream of beer was unimpeded by the
snags of rationing.
Appointment of C. A. Berendsen as
New Zealand’s number one man at Wash-
ington, replacing Walter Nash, means the
loss to Canberra of a cheery soul who
knew how to cany on diplomacy without
tears. Sydney-born, Berendsen went to
Maoriland as a youngster and had some
tough going kicking himself up from the
hand-made shack which was his first habi-
tation there.
An anti-Dry leader:
John James Liston, who has passed on 71
in' Melbourne, was long associated with the
Every Seven Years’ War. As general secretary
of the Liquor Trades Defence Union for 32
years, it was his job to marshal the forces
against the Local Option people at Victoria’s
recurrent referenda. Although he was a
doughty fighter his urbanity was never shaken,
and, if he fought strenuously for Bung’s busi-
ness interests, he fought equally strenuously to
lift Bung and Bung’s premises to a higher
standard. Liston’s public life, however, had
other facets He was a member of Williams-
town City Council for '33 years and mayor
seven times, and that seaside town has to thank
him for its reclaimed foreshore. He was a
Melbourne city father for fen years, a com-
missioner of the Metropolitan Board, a member
of the Town Planning Commission and presi-
dent of the Victorian Friendly Societies’ Asso-
ciation. A racehorse owner, he was chairman
of the Williamstown R.C., of the Williamstown
Cricket and Football Clubs and a trustee of
the M.C.C. He turned the Williamstown Hos-
pital into an important institution, and many
of his hidden benefactions actually aided the
social activities of his opponents on the liquor
question. One of his two sons, L.A.C. Ward
Liston, was one of the first Australians
wounded in Egypt. The other is Captain J. E.
Liston.
Maoriland’s latest war correspondent
appointed to the N.Z.E.F. in the Pacific,
J. A. Gasson has had a long stretch of
active service in this war with the M.L.
forces. Formerly prominent in sport in
Canterbury, he represented athletics on
the council of the N.Z. Olympic and
British Games Association. When war
broke out he was on the editorial staff
of the “Free Lance,” Wellington, and
before that was with Christchurch “Sun.’
A sort of millionaire in a way is
Ernest Glanville Hicks, F.C.I.S. For the
Lud Mayor’s Fund in Melbourne, he has
dredged close on two million pounds
from citizens’ pockets in his 20 years of
office. Last year he raised £lOB,OOO for
the Junior Red Cross. Hicks came from
the Scilly Isles to the printing trade in
Melbourne, took to journalism and was
eight years on the Inky Way in Maori-
land before he joined Melbourne
“Argus.” In the A.I.F. in 1915, he
was disabled, returned to Australia
with two mentions in dispatches, and
for three years controlled vocational
training for- disabled soldiers. In his
spare time he writes poems and stories,
and has published Songs of a Season and
Turn of the Tide and Other Poems. He
is 67.
Kenneth Stuart Patton, due to wear
in Maoriland the outsize handle of Envoy
Extraordinary and Minister Plenipoten-
tiary, has served Uncle Sam in many
lands. Born at Salem, in Old Virginia,
62 years ago, he was educated at the
university there, at the Paris Sorbonne
and the Johns Hopkins Uni. His
addresses over the past 20 years have
included Paris, Belgrade, Leipzig, Batavia,
Amsterdam, Singapore and Calcutta.
When L. A. Saunders (proprietor of
the phiz here portrayed by Frith) reads
of power implements and machines doing
the farmers’ work for them on a bigger
and bigger (and better) scale, it adds up
to one of his pet dreams come true.
Years back he started the publication
“Power Farming in Australia” to help the
dream materialise, and also stumped up
hundreds of notes for cups to the same
end. The first of his cups, “for the best
crop of wheat put in and taken off with
farm tractors,” was won by an Eyre Pen-
insula (S.A.) farmer against 2800 com-
petitors. Made by Angus and Coote, it
was the largest silver cup ever spun in
Australia. It set the enthusiast back £6O.
A onetime vice-president of the Journal-
ists’ Assoc, in N.S.W., with Tom Mutch
a fellow-committeeman, a New Settlers’
League vice-president for years, and for
a brief spell president of the Advertising
Service Agents’ Assoc., Saunders has
always had a special interest in wine-
producing in Australia, and once looked
over Maoriland and reported to the M.L.
Government on wine possibilities there.
After the last war he lectured Murrum-
L. A. SAUNDERS.
bidgee Irrigation Area Diggers on grape-
growing. One aspect of his power-farm-
ing dream still gives him a quiet grin—
that the toughest opposition came from
agricultural departmentalists who reck-
oned Dobbin was the only safe bet.
Asked by the British War Office to
join an Anglo-American Commission for
Monuments, Fine Arts and Archives to
protect art treasures in countries occu-
pied by the Allies, Daryl Lindsay, Direc-
tor of the National Gallery in Melbourne,
has had to decline, having already plenty
on his hands with Gallery affairs, both
present and post-war. This member of
the Lindsay clan has up to date been
probably the most successful director the
Swanston-street institution, has ever had.
Flight-Lieut. John Hereford Portus,
D.F.C., who’s had a well-earned change
in his home State, is a son of
FLIGHT-LIEUT. J. H. PORTUS, D.F.C.
Adelaide University’s Professor of
History S. V. Portus. Flight-Lieut.
Portus is a topnotch navigator, and
was on this job in a ’plane which
attacked and sank a U-boat. The ’plane
was so badly damaged that it crashed
into the sea, but all of its crew were
rescued. Educated at Sydney Uni. and
Oxford, Flight-Lieut. Portus was admitted
to the Bar in England, and obtained his
B.A. degree before returning to S.A.,
where when he enlisted in the R.A.A.F.
he was sec. of Adelaide Law Society. He
represented S.A. at Rugby.
Into the silence:
In Melbourne, at 80, Franklin Ethelbert Fay,
partner in Cleverdon and Fay when the firm
signed on the first Chinese articled in Melbourne.
Ah Mouy, however, did not seek admission, and
so the honor of being the first Chinese admitted
to practice in Victoria fell to the late Willie
Ah Ket.
In Sydney, Rev. W. E. Godson, for many
years a missionary in China and for a time a
helpful worker in Sydney’s Chinese community.
He had a brief term also as chaplain of Norfolk
Island.
In Melbourne, at 68, Charles V. Whistler,
one of the best-known men in the book trade,
and also well known to the general public be-
cause of his height, 6ft. He lived among
tomes all his life, for many years managing
the wholesale department of Cole’s Book
Arcade. When the arcade closed he occupied
a similar post with Robertson and Mullens.
At 65, in Melbourne, Gerald O’Rourke, de-
scendant of a pioneer Buchan district family.
The original O’Rourkes overlanded from N.S.W.
two years after Batman landed at Port Phillip,
and settled on Black Mountain, East Gippsland.
At 62 F. J. Brown, Mayor of suburban
Brighton (S.A.) since 1936. Before that he had
20 years as mayor or councillor of Port Ade-
laide.
At 68, in Melbourne, Herbert Edward Dixon,
headmaster of Brighton Grammar School, 1924-
38. Born in Yorkshire, he came to Australia
in 1903 and joined the school when it was
under Dr. Crowther.
At 73, Professor George Cockburn Hender-
son, an authority on Pacific history. His Fiji
and the Fijians received world approval and
there is more to come. At Sydney Uni. he won
several scholarships, the Brackenbury (history)
taking him to Oxford. In 1902 he was appointed
Professor of History at Adelaide Uni. and
some years later published his Life of Sir
George Grey. In 1914 he was appointed to
inquire into the collection, storage and preser-
vation of archives overseas, and his report re-
sulted in the Archives Department being set
up by the S.A. Government in 1920 —the first
and only one in the Commonwealth.
At Bendigo (Vic.), William Dunstone, M.L.A.
A foundation member of the Victorian Farmers’
Union, he had represented Rodney in the
Assembly since 1936.


Society
AND IT'S PRINTED
WITH WIMBLES INKS'
“Ex-C.G.”: Somewhere in the inter-
minable evidence tendered at the Pyjama
Girl inquest was a reference to a pistol
having been heaved over one of the Yarra
bridges, whereupon police began scouring
in the mud at the spot. The result was
a bit surprising to the police. No fewer
than seven pistols came up, none of them
fitting the description of the missing one.
Unless my memory is
at fault that particular
bridge is hard by what
was once known as
“the Chicken Run,”
where in the old days
you could get shot
(with lead or liquor)
for the asking.
* *
“Alex.”: One of the
queerest cases in
Maoriland’s legal
annals came before
the Full Court lately
when a former bar-
rister, holding the
rather rare degree of
LL.M., sought to com-
pel the N.Z. Law
Society to issue him a
practising barrister’s
certificate. Applicant
testified that after 12
years’ practice he re-
tired from legal work
in 1932 to devote him-
self to a study of law
in its relation to justice,
it being his opinion
that M.L. statute law
was becoming a rigid
system impervious to
considerations
of equity. When Stan-
ley Graham (a farmer
who ran amuck) was
shot by the police the
applicant attempted to
issue a warrant for the
arrest of the Prime Minister on a charge
of murder, capital punishment being then
illegal in the Dominion. As a conse-
quence he was committed to a mental
hospital (illegally, he claimed), and when
later, on release from the hospital, he
sought to resume the practice of his pro-
fession he was denied a certificate be-
cause he had been adjudged mentally de-
fective. He claimed to be an individualist,
not a lunatic. The Judges decided to take
their time over a decision.
* * * *
“A.J.K.”: As I write the date calendar
shows an unusual arrangement of figures,
4/4/’44. Not for 11 years, since March,
1933, has a similar repetition of a single
symbol been evident, and not for 11 years
will it recur, this time as 5/5/’55. Num-
bers in sequence have the same periodi-
city. Who can remember l/2/’34 on their
morning daily? Next year we’ll have
2/3/’45, and 11 years later 3/4/’56. In
the year of the second Commonwealth
census we saw a reversal, 4/3/’2l, and
the Sydney Harbor Bridge was opened
during the year which produced 5/4/’32.
Last year the 11-year cycle again obliged
with 6/5/’43. Jacky and his lubra may
have been quietly chewing baked snake
on the future site of Sydney’s Martin-
place when calendars in civilised parts
showed 11/11/1111. »
« « * *
“Aisop”; “Cauboy’s” allegation (B.
5/4/’44) that Melbourne showed only
moderate enthusiasm for Marjorie Law-
rence is not well founded. I was at
several of her concerts, both at the be-
ginning and the end of the extended
season, and the Town Hall was well filled
on every occasion, the reception given
to the singer being, in my opinion,
greater and more demonstrative than
in the case of any visiting vocalist
in recent years, not forgetting Tauber,
Tibbett and Flagstad. Miss Lawrence's
reception in Sydney was different. It was
only after she publicly commented
on the poor attendance that there was
an improvement. In the Harbor City
she was handicapped, even as Melba, Ada
Crossley, Amy Castles, Percy Grainger,
Florence Austral, John Brownlee, Brown-
ing Mummery, John Amadio, Eileen
Joyce and Bernard Heinze were, by the
fact that she was born south of the
Murray.
♦ * * *
“V. Cluse”: On Easter Monday- I lay
abed, idly sipping a cup of tea and think-
ing things over. The morn was bright
and sunny. There was no threat of storm
in the clouds low in the west, and I
couldn’t help comparing the state of nature
with human affairs as they touched me.
It seemed to me that I’d been living under
threats for a long time. If I wanted to
buy a house there was menace in the
demand that I must invest a sum in war
loans; I daren’t produce £2OO without
risking a threat from taxation officials ;
my family’s food is constantly under
threats of curtailment from boards and
controls ; if I want to go anywhere or sell
“Can't you sleep, Ned?”
"No, you'd keep anyone awake with your snoring .”
anything or do anything, the eye of the
official or the union boss is on me. Is it
any wonder that, suddenly remembering
“Pilot’s” tip in The Bulletin, I had five
bob each way the Sydney Cup winner?
It stuck out like a sore thumb.
* * * *
“Bren”: Sex instruction for children,
is it (B. 29/3/’44)? The 11-year-old son
of a friend of mine asked his father for
some information on the subject. After
half an hour’s patient listening the boy in-
quired “Is that all, Dad?” “That’s about
all,” said his father. “0.K.,” responded
the kid cheerily. “Now, let’s have a
game of snakes and ladders.”
♦ * * ♦
“Arter”: “F.S.” (B. 29/3/’44) calls me
to task for using “prices as the criterion
of the artistic worth of pictures,” because
I favored some evidence (cited by the pro-
primitive critic of “S.M.H.”) that the
works of the early French post-impres-
sionists are going a lot cheaper than they
used to. I was not so foolish as to argue
that because they are getting cheaper
these strange productions are of less
artistic (I presume “F.S.” means sesthetic)
value than they used to be. 1 have never
accorded them any aesthetic value what-
ever. To me they belong in the same
frame of reference as the petrified man,
the dog-faced boy and* the calf with two
heads, and 1 rejoice to hear (as the
“S.M.H.” critic unwittingly demonstrates)
that their popularity, even in the freak
market, is waning. The world showed its
good sense in refusing to buy these evi-
dences of degeneration and dementia
when they first appeared, Whereas it wel-
comed and paid good prices for the work
of all the great classical giants of paint-
ing during their lifetimes —usually it
made them affluent when they were still
in their twenties.
* * ♦ •
“A.J.K.” on a new radio station:
We call it 280 Baloney. Some months ago
the signals section of our unit had the bright
idea that the boys needed broadcast pro-
grammes of their own —something to which
everyone could contribute. Second-hand turn-
tables, loudspeakers and miscellaneous parts
arrived as chaps returned from leave, a lot of
stuff was scrounged and a studio to house the
gear was erected and mossie-proofed. Record-
ings, old and new, started to pour in. Welfare
funds augmented the growing stock. The ampli-
fiers were dispersed throughout the camp at
vantage points, and there was never any dearth
of aspiring announcers. The station now turns
on a regular canned musjcal programme and a
rebroadcast of 8.8. C. news and A.B.C. variety
is arranged. At reveille there’s a jam and jive
session, at midday “harmony,” and during the
evening meal dinner music. Variety is the key-
word. Peter Dawson vies with the Andrews
Sisters, Benny Goodman with the Boston
Promenade Orchestra. By telephoning a re-
quest we can enjoy “La Gioconda” or George
Formby, Ravel’s “Bolero” or the Mills
Brothers. As the evening draws on, time- 1
worn but popular ballads and slumber songs
lull the listeners-in as they carefully tuck mos-
quito nets for the night, until finally Bing’s
moaning of “Lullaby” ends the day. The sys-
tem is used, of course, for orders and notices,
when necessary, and on tent-inspection day we
hate if, for the sar.-major’s voice booms: “The
undermentioned personnel are to report immedi-
ately to the adjutant for having untidy
quarters....”
* * * »
“Pip”: Although there is nothing in
the world so great and glorious to anti-
cipate as that yearly 24 days’ leave, get-
ting ready for it is an ordeal to shake
the strongest nerves. A barrage of
rumors begins about eight months before
the big day, and the C.O.’s batman is
treated with the awe and veneration due
to an oracle. At last official notification
comes; then never fewer than three last-
minute cancellations. When leave finally
does Arrive the recipient is deeply scep-
tical and quite unprepared. Follows a
frantic rush to wash and iron clothes,
clean up and pack. Standing in the pay
queue for two hours cuts a hole in valu-
able time. Subsistence queue comes next,
followed by a handout of a weird and
puzzling assortment of food coupons.
The quartermaster adds to the general
confusion by announcing that the Q. store
will be open for only an hour, and from
the ensuing crush the M.O. reaps a crop
of broken ribs and ugly abrasions. Pay
and coupons run out long before every-
body has received an issue, and a har-
assed officer from R.H.Q. goes on a
begging mission among neighboring units.
Whether or not he will arrive back in
time is a subject for breathless conjec-
ture. He just makes it. Parade falls in
20 minutes late; therfc is a cursory in-
spection and the troops mount in trucks
for convoy to the station. After sardine-
like packing 50 men are left over, but a
panic ’phone call brings help from the
crowd next door. The convoy breaks all
speed regulations in a dash for the sta-
tion, and then it turns out that the train
is running six hours late. Luckily that
usually ends the chronicle of ignoble
fortune.
• * * •
“Peter Piper”; The casual sporting re-
porter’s job is no sinecure these days.
’Phones on playing ovals are invariably
out of order, and assistant boys for tele-
phoning the copy through are at a pre-
mium, seeing that they can earn much
more money polishing service men’s
boots. This necessitates the reporter him-
self tramping to a public call box and
queueing up with s.p. bettors and long-
winded females to use it. Trying
to give scores and details amid the im-
patient abuse of qthers in the queue
causes no end of discrepancies to creep
into the copy. During the cricket season
1 ruined two pairs of trousers clamber-
ing over barbwire fences in short
cuts to a ’phone, and narrowly escaped
being gored by an offended bull. Antici-
pating similar trouble in the football
season I have got me some tough cordu-
roy breeches, with wire-cutters in the hip
pocket.
* % * . *
“Ear Punisher”: Nowhere is the decay
of the Australian hotel under restrictive
legislation more catastrophic than in Mel-
bourne. Yet it than a year or
two since Melbourne hostelries, even the
small ones, were rather admirable places.
Just before the Jap outbreak I ran into
a man who is now a p.o.w. in Malaya
and asked him where he was going for
lunch. He mentioned the name of a
pub in one of the suburbs. “Why
are you going as far as that for a meal? ’
I asked him. “Well,” he answered, “you
can get a pot of beer and a squab there
for sixpence!” To call the average Mel-
bourne pub as it is today a swillery is to
be complimentary.
* * * *
“T. McNarrk”: A wandering Australian
war correspondent has been in Scotland,
where he unearthed what he calls a
“Scottish Nationalist” movement with a
leader whose main growl is this:
“The young men of Scotland are
sent under alien control to far parts of
the world, while the defence of Scotland
is committed to Poles, Englishmen and
others,”
One felt in Mr. Muirhead’s office two
deep impressions—first, how gravely earnest
these separatists were; secondly, how their
growing activity and first sweet taste of
success were leading them into a growing
hostility to the English Would a Scottish
Glasgow be less depressing... .more secure
and more hopeful than this British Glas-
gow?
An answer to this sort of propaganda is
the fact that when the 51st Highland Divi-
sion was practically wiped out in France
early in 1940, the Scots immediately reio-
stoushed it to full strength so that it went
on to glory with Montgomery’s Eighth
Army in Egypt, Libya, Tunisia and Italy.
MISFITS.
“At the annual meeting of the N.S.W. Public
Service Association resentment was expressed at
administrative posts in the public service being
conferred on university professors fresh from clois-
tered life, ‘intellectual but untrained dilettanti.’ ”
“Far from the madding crowd’s ignoble strife”
With all its acrimonious jars and wrangles
They led a sheltered academic life
In sober lecture-rooms and quiet quadrangles.
What should they know of things in general
That split the masses into pro and anti,
These doubtless highly intellectual
But wholly inexperienced dilettanti?
Latin and Greek, and stacks of scholarship
Besides, are doubtless in their mental attics;
Science and art alike are in their grip
And quite a lot are dabs at mathematics.
I’ll bet a number carry in their nobs
Whole passages from Goethe and from Dante,
But when it comes to departmental jobs
What use are intellectual dilettanti?
Political economy’s a theme
On which their keen researches have extended
To heights whereof John Mill could hardly
dream
And Adam Smith but dimly comprehended.
The store of information they exude
Makes even Marx’s books look skimped and
scanty.
But when it comes to action —doubts intrude
About these intellectual dilettanti.
“Back to your caps and gowns,” I hear the
cries
From angry civil servants emphasising
Their disbelief in musty libraries
And tedious scholastic theorising.
“Back to your philosophic lurks and stunts,
Resume what you might call the status ante!
No battles —even upon tucker fronts —
Are won by intellectual dilettanti.”
N.S.W.
MIDFORD.
QUITE LIKELY.
“Some bookmakers’ returns for 1943-44 will set
the Taxation Department an interesting task.”
—“Pilot ” B. 12/H’U-
Time was when Solomon in all his glory
Was scarce caparisoned like one of these.
In gorgeous garb, bejewelled suo more,
He ambled to his post and laid the gees,
His very rings and pins a silent story,
As good as any written guarantees,
A mute assurance plain for all to see
Of his financial stability.
It’s quite discarded now, the old tradition,
The musty fable that to get a start,
Embark successfully upon the mission
Of putting sanguine punters in the cart,
Become a penciller or metallician,
A fellow must contrive to look the part.
Years since, there ceased to be a part to look
(Barring a bulging bag) to be a book.
They’re off the map, the erst flamboyant dressers
In flaming checks that seemed to scream and
yell
Loud as the odds they bellowed. Their suc-
cessors,
Excepting on the course, you couldn’t tell,
I’ll bet, from university professors
Or barristers, or birds who buy and sell
Upon the Stock Exchange, or plainclothes cops,
Or chaps who hog your mane in barbers’ shops.
Though “the apparel oft proclaims the man,”
As sage Polonius bid Laertes sense,
You may observe the Ikey Moses clan
No longer needs to go to the expense
Of getting snips and jewellers to plan
Methods to advertise its opulence.
A par. like that above outweighs such things
As 20-guinea suits and diamond rings.
Note what a puzzle waits to be unravelled
Where income tax assessments are reviewed!
’Twill leave the slickest calculator gravelled,
One may quite justifiably conclude,
To reconcile what books admit they’ve snavelled
With what disgruntled punters know they’ve
blewed.
An interesting task, I quite agree.
And one I wouldn’t like to fall to me.
N.S.W.
T. THE R.


“V.C.”: When our little social club
heard the other day that there was to
be a 7 p.c. increase in the number of
playing cards released to the public in
the April-June quarter, the members
deputed me to apply for priority orders
and buy three new packs to replace the
battered ones worn out by four years
of constant use. I began at what I
thought was the relevant department, and,
after being corrected and passed on from
office to office for two days, finally arrived
before a smooth young man with an im-
passive face. “Are you the deputy sub-
controller of pasteboard articles for
civilian use?” I asked. “You could call
me that,” he admitted guardedly. I made
known my wants. “H’m,” he said, and
consulted a pile of correspondence. Then
he said: “Yes, the release has been con-
firmed, but I’m afraid you’ll have to
wait until next month. You see, the
officer-in-charge of the rationing of the
red suits has had to go to South Aus-
tralia for a conference with the Com-
monwealth controller of dies and stamps,
and he went away in such a rush he
didn’t have time to appoint a deputy.” I
must have looked my disappointment, for
the official said brightly “Look, why
doesn’t your club confine itself to games
using only black cards for the time
being?” Convulsively shaking his hand
and murmuring broken thanks, I left.
And if you don’t believe me, try gettihg
a permit for something yourself.
* * * *
“Hamer”; Although when dismantled
it was numbered stone by stone,
to facilitate re-erection, there is doubt
whether Sydney’s G.P.O. tower will ever
again grace the building’s Martin-place
facade. When it went up 50 years ago
the tower dominated Sydney. Returning
from a sojourn in England I remember
seeing its lighted clock-face afar off as
we passed the Gap just before daybreak.
Later I got the time from its chimes as
far away as Woollahra. But it had been
losing importance as a town clock in
recent years. Big buildings, crowding on
all sides, dwarfed it; the roof of the latest
additions to the G.P.O. actually looked
down on the face of its clock; and the
sound of its chimes, blanketed by great
buildings, was inaudible even a few
blocks away. A mistake was made when
the G.P.O. was placed in a hollow.
* v # ♦
Grumble from a Melbourne reader:
It is very hard to get The Bulletin
regularly. For some time I shared it with
an old Irishman in the Victoria Market,
who then passed it on to a publican in
Fitzroy, who gave it to an old-clothes
woman with one eye who supports a
literary husband. At present a worker
here snatches it from a stall on the rail-
way station, and I repay her with ice-
creams, so that my Bulletin costs 9d.
9k 9p # 9k
“Greyziff”: It’s wonderful how each
generation thinks its rediscovery of
something old is really something new,
as, for instance, the flapper press clapper
about the “pin-up girl.” Forty, 50
years ago every sixpenny packet of
cigarettes yielded a real photograph of a
stage beauty every bit as glamorous as
the modern products of Hollywood. And
the lads of those’ days pinned them up.
Knew a pub parlor on the Coolgardie
goldfields where the entire walls of a
14ft. x 12ft. room above the 4ft. dado
were covered with such cigarette cards.
Blokes from the mulga often spent hours
poring over such a gallery of beauty:
“Sweet Nell of Old Drury” Stewart,
Carrie Moore, Celia Ghiloni, Maggie
Moore, Tittell Brune and a thousand
others. As a contrast the ceiling was
papered with the hundreds of dud Tatt.’s
tickets bought by the various syndicates
connected with the hotel. Those were the
generous days now scornfully dismissed
as “Edwardian.”
9k 9k * *
“Nakh”: The retired university pro-
fessor who is so obliging to reporters who
want to leave early (B. 5/4/’44) isn’t so
indulgent to latecomers. One night the
wife of a local councillor turned up a
quarter of an hour after the prof, had
commenced his learned discourse. In-
stantly stopping he said “I see that a lady
has been unfortunate enough to miss my
opening remarks. I will repeat them con-
cisely for her benefit. What is your name,
madam?” The startled lady provided the
information. “Well, now, Mrs. Smith-
Jones, as I have already informed the
others, biology is the science of life and
living, that branch of human knowledge
which deals with the phenomena charac-
teristic and peculiar to living organisms”
—and so on for 15 minutes. The whole
audience was five minutes early next
evening.
“Paddy”: “Spokeshave” (B. 15/3/’44)
was wrong about Chancellor Way and
the Adelaide Commem., but “S.T.S.” (B.
29/3/’44) is only partially correct. I,
too, was there —not only at the Commem.
but at the collection of half a dozen
clocks borrowed for the occasion from
an Adelaide firm. These were set to go
off at five-minute intervals, starting at
3 p.m. They were not put in locked cup-
boards, for there were no cupboards in
that room. The bookshelves extended
along all four walls to a height of about
Bft. and the usual library ladder was pro-
vided. The clocks were put in various
places behind the top rows of books, and
the ladder was removed before the meet-
ing, not so much to prevent access to the
clocks during the onslaught as to ensure
that they could be retrieved after the
show and returned to the owners. This
was an urgent necessity, as it is doubtful
whether the price of the horologes could
have been raised among the insurgents—
chronically hard up as we were.
V * 9k *
“Petermac”; Bleats about the trifling
overseas publicity Australia’s part in the
war receives cause me to rise from my
armchair in the Fusiliers’ Club and in-
quire why the Australian press so seldom
mentions the Anzacs from the other side
of the Tasman. The Kiwis have been in
everything since the war started, and the
shaky little isles seem to be vying with
England in having a front “on every wave
that breaks.” The Enzeds are still doing
grand work in Italy whilst their airmen
are bombing Germany, and Enzeds have
played no small part in ousting the
Japs from the Solomons. If I read of an
earthquake in Maoriland any day from
now I won’t be surprised. It will un-
doubtedly be caused by an ebullition of
“The army is calling for bright reading, George. I think We can spare
this volume of ‘The Sex Life of a Prawn.' ”
wrath from Maorilanders who saw the
film “Desert Victory,” in which one looks
in vain for any sign or semblance of a
Fern-badged warrior.
He 9k * *
“S.T.S.”: Adelaide Public Library's
archives department has had an almost
incredible find, in the farewell letter
written to the Admiralty in 1789 by the
captain of H.M.S. Guardian, • which,
bound for the infant settlement of Syd-
ney, had struck an “island of ice” some-
where south of Capetown and seemed
certain to founder. And now the letter
has been found “blowing about in my
backyard,” says a suburban Adelaide resi-
dent. The date and history of the Guar-
dian have been checked (some of the crew
took to the boats, others stuck to their
captain and the ship, and both lots were
saved) ; and the letter passes every test.
* * * *
“Lingo”: Have persons who question
the value of Basic English thought how
small is the number of common words
necessary to voice even complex ideas?
To discuss the arts or sciences or details
of machines is not possible, but outside
special fields B.E. gives elastic range. As
example take this bit of writing, all in
that simple language.
* * * *
“Zake” :• Touching on Monty Wool-
ley’s portrayal of “England’s greatest
painter, Priam Farll” in “Holy Matri-
mony” (B. 12/4/’44), a striking difference
is apparent in the presentation of this
fictitious painter’s work and that of an-
other “famous painter” in Maugham’s
“The Moon and Sixpence.” The director
of the latter film was well aware that, a
“genius” having been built up, it would
have been fatal to display the actual works
of Gauguin; the audience would have
laughed at the daubs and refused to ac-
cept the rest of the Maugham story. So
throughout the film—except in the
denouement when the audience’s re-
actions didn’t matter —only the backs of
the canvases were shown. But Arnold
Bennett, unaware that a time would
come when a representation of a
woman’s square breast in juxtaposi-
tion to a detached ox’s eye, halt
a barber’s pole, a magenta - colored
sunflower and an ultramarine spade-
handle and entitled “Subconscious Pas-
sion” would be sellable to mugs at 200
guineas, created a painter who painted
things he saw and not conjured up out of
a diseased imagination. So the works of
“Priam Farll,” orthodox landscapes,
studies of town life and portraits, ate
shown in the film open and unashamed ;
and they look as if they could have been
painted by a master. Shrewd fellows,
with their fingers ever on the box-office
pulse film producers know that the
nublic won’t swallow goofy art.
* * * *
“Plum”: The frequent presence of a
stranger in the shop at the same time as
an old and valued customer in search of
something which only old and valued
customers can get is rapidly turning shop-
keepers into masters of circumlocution.
A reference to “those other things” im-
mediately conveys “eggs” to the O. and
V.C., even without an accompanying nod
and wink, and would leave all but the
most acute non-customer in the dark.
There is no sudden pricking of the ears
among the casuals at the sound of the
words “Irish apples,” whereas “potatoes
produces an immediate reaction and an
eager gathering round to see the result
of the request. But this sort of thing can
lead to misunderstandings. The other
day I asked at the local “mixed busi-
ness” for a packet of dried herbs, which
the wife really needed, to stuff a fowl.
The chap behind the counter glanced
furtively to right and left and leaned con-
spiratorially towards me. “Got some in
this morning,” he breathed. “Which do
you want, fine-cut or ready-rubbed?’
* * * *
“Lao-dah”: The Privy Council judg-
ment that no certain meaning can be
assigned to the words “of Jewish birth'
(B. 5/4/’44) will be appreciated in China,
which has its Jews, too. If there are
any characteristics of the Chinese Jew
which distinguish him from his non-
Jewish fellow-countrymen nobody has
ever seen them. He looks, talks, dresses,
gesticulates and even eats pork like his
Celestial brothers, but still regards him-
self as a member of the Chosen Race.
There are several millions of him, mainly
in Honan province. No race seems to
have such a capacity to absorb other
races as the Chinese possess. The expla-
nation lies in the enormous strength of
the Celestial family system.
* * * *
“Adelaide”: Laybourne Smith, Adel-
aide architect and president of the
Chamber of Building Industries, has
brought into the market a new word and
idea, “back-enders.” His plan is to meet
the acute house shortage by securing the
space for a proper (say five-roomed)
house and garden, but building only a
kitchen and two bedrooms. This back-
ender can be made to serve for a young
couple to live in, and when materials are
available again the front can be com-
pleted according to taste and means.
* * * *
“L. de Rideau”: After his remarkably
successful Beethoven Festival Professor
Heinze was heard remarking that the
near-classics have never appealed to Aus-
tralian audiences like the real classics. He
had something to go on. Schneevoigt,
the Finn, had a passion for waltz king
Johann Strauss, and gave a Strauss con-
cert at the Town Hall, Melbourne. Be-
fore the performance he was careful to
tell the house to relax and let the music,
which the great Brahms had admired,
sink into them. The audience couldn’t
do it, and the music didn’t stick. Strauss
to Schneevoigt was a memory of adoles-
cence. Probably Schnee. first heard Johann
in cafes in Vienna while Schnee. sat drink-
ing beer and watching the girls walking
around the park. A band played “The
Blue Danube,” and the sticky melodies
became associated with the scene. It
may have been the beer and the girls
Schnee. liked, not the music-. If he had
passed a few pots round the Town Hall
his audience might have become very
keen on Strauss.
* * * *
“Nakh”: The multiple-birth business
seems to be looking up. First the Car-
penter quads arrive in England, and then
it is discovered that a South American
senora has brought five healthy infants
into the world at one birth ; not
wishing them to become world famous
on that account or a national tourist
asset, she concealed the occurrence for a
whole year. Very wise, too. It is doubt-
ful if being born in company is an ad-
vantage. There is no case on record, as
far as I know, of a genius who was a
twin, let alone a triplet, quad or quin.
* * * *
“Haffo”: The gent, with the happy,
bemused look pushed his way through
the crowd around the bookie and de-
manded to be set “for a coupla (hie)
casers on the favorite.” He was set, and
he retired to the rails. The race started,
and the happy gent, peered anxiously at
the track, frowned, arose and inquired
of those about him “Shay, who let them
bloomin’ mongrels looshe on the courshe?
Ought t’ be shot, chasin’ round (hie) like
that. Whatsh place cornin’ t’?” A
friendly individual took his arm and said
“Listen, boy, where do you think you
are?” The h.g. eyed him owlishly.'
“Ran’wick,” he answered, “with half a
nicker on the favorite an’ a lot o’ flamin’
tripe houndsh on the track.” “You're
at the Harold Park dog track,” said the
helpful one. The backer of the favorite
frowned as he took this jn, then with an
awe-stricken “Strike me roan! ” he fled.
* * * *
“Lord Luvus”: Daylight saving suits
some people. Even in the worst Australian
heat wave the first few hours of morning
are generally cool, fresh and delightful,
and to spend these hours lying in besotted
and unrefreshing slumber on one’s couch
is a waste of God’s gift. It is true that
the long, hot evening, infested with flies
and other insects, is apt to be unpleasant,
but one gets it in any case, and it is more
than compensated for by the pleasures
of the morning. As for the mothers who
couldn’t get their children to bed under
daylight saving, I would like to know
how many of them are successful in that
difficult operation at normal times.
“Veronique”: “Cera” (B. 29/3/ 44)
must have had a most unusual and sur-
prising experience if he ran into Aus-
tralians everywhere in South America. 1
spent considerable time in that delightful
country, travelling in 4l sorts of remote
places from Panama to the Horn. The
only Australians I met were three who
were passing through on their way to
England, one employee of the Braden
Copper Mines up in the Andes and Guy
H. Dawson, landowner and the most
successful sheepbreeder in Patagonia.
Generally speaking, I found the people of
South America knew little or nothing
about Australia.
* St * *
“Bo”: The belief that the only people
who sleep and eat right where they work
are civil servants and refugees in sweat-
shops needs revision. A complaint has
been made to the N.S.W. Railways man-
agement that an enginedriver, unable to
obtain other accommodation, has been
using the cab of his own locomotive as
a domicile. Sounds to me like whinging
in war-time. H this cove worked on a
concrete-mixer or was a mail pillar-box
painter he’d have something to beef
about. Fancy sleeping‘curled up like a
dog with the ever-present risk that one
morning one might oversleep and one's
mates might mix one with the cement
and make one into a wall, or going to
bed standing up, with one’s slumber con-
stantly disturbed by letters dropping on
one’s ear! The enginedriver-householder
in his cabin can read by the light of his
furnace fire, warming himself meanwhile.
He has hot water on tap for shaving or
making tea. He can recline on the tender
and, holding a long-handled pan, cook
his snorks in comfort. Canvas blinds
can be drawn fojr shelter against in-
clement weather. And when his spouse
bounces into the yards on payday to
locate engine 3526 and put her hand out
for the pay envelope, it may well be that
the tenant, having dug a comfortable hip
hole in the coal, is by then up Nyngan
way, his lodgings busily engaged in haul-
ing a goods train to Bourke. Moreover,
the enginedriver could make extra money
by subletting a share of the place to a
censor’s snooper, who would jump at a
place so well equipped with steam for
letter-opening.


ABORIGINALITIES
' “Old-timer”: Though he was getting
on in years, “Barney the Bull” was still
the terror of the district, especially when
he had a few across his chest. His down-
fall came one hot day. We were in the
bar listening to old Barney lay down the
law and watching him closely to see that
no sudden punch flew from him, when
a nuggety young bloke came in, dropped
his swag and a heap of dust on the floor
and breasted the bar. “Come far?” asked
Barney. Nugget eyed him off and said
“Far enough.” “Where y’ makin’ for?”
demanded Barney. “That’s my business,”
came back Nugget, and Barney flew at
him. They fought furiously for a couple
of minutes, then Nugget landed a beaut,
and Barney went down. He sat up,
.shook his head and said “Well, y’re the
first bloke’s put me down f’r a long time.
It’s just as well me son Bert ain’t here.”
Nugget stood over him. “I ain’t fright-
ened of you or your sons,” he said darkly.
“Let ’em all come.” “Don’t get orf y’r
bike,” said Barney placatingly. “Bert
always reckoned it’d be worth a quid
t’ see someone gimme a hidin’. That’s why
it’s just as well he ain’t here; it would
have cost him a quid. Can I get up,
mate?”
**■ * *
“Marsh”: The cleanest machine-
shearer I ever saw was an American
negro named Jack McFowler, who used
to have a regular run of sheds in western
Queensland, Although not a gun as far
as pace was concerned —his tally even in
the best of cutters was rarely more than
120 a day— the negro’s sheep could easily
be picked out in the yard after each
count-out. McFowler “pinked” every
sheep and never drew blood on any of
them, no matter how rough they might
have been. It was always to McFowler’s
stand that visitors were taken, and
at one shed where 60-odd shearers turned
out around 12,000 sheep a day the boss
of the board would always bet—and win
—that from the day’s tally he’d draft off
the sheep shorn jpy McFowler and not
make one mistake.
* * * *
“Billy See”: The disquisition on the
marsupial tiger’s tail (B. 22/3/’44) opens
the question as to why quadrupeds in
general have tails. The horse and the
ox use theirs of course mainly as fly-
switches. But dogs and cats? Watch a
dog sleeping out in the open in the cold.
His always-damp nose is his vulnerable
point. Curling himself up he brings his
tail around so that it serves as a nose rug.
Pictures of Arctic dogs show them all
sleeping that way, their noses covered by
their bushy tails. Cats sleep much the
same, though their nose spot, being
smaller, doesn’t call for so much protec-
tion. The bear tribe has dispensed with
the tail, even our own native. Much
given to standing semi-upright on hind
legs, the bear probably found a long,
dragging tail a nuisance. Its thick fur
armors it from the torment of flies, and
though it has a hose as wet as a dog’s it
keeps this from freezing when asleep by
huddling its muzzle down between its
shaggy forepaws. As to the pachyderms,
although the elephant still has a tail its
sole use seems to be to wag contentedly
when its owner is hoeing into a good
feed. And I mustn’t forget the simians.
But what does a monkey use its tail for
except for swinging by and flea-ing?
“The 0.D.”-: When “Naturala” (B.
12/4/’44) claimed that the bunny’s white
tail was given to it for use as an alarm
signal, I doubted it, and added what
everyone who has ever hunted rabbits
knows, viz., that the alarm signal is a
thumping of the hind legs on the ground.
If the white tail is an alarm signal then
the rabbit is the only living thing that
doesn’t give the alarm by sound. All
gregarious things, from man to rabbit, use
sound as a signal of alarm. However,
“N.” comes back now with a further
notion that bunny, after frantically wav-
ing the white tail to warn all hands of
danger, then uses ft as a sort of tail-light
so that the younger fry. can follow to
safety. It’s a nice theory, but since when
has the rabbit given two hoots about the
safety of the other rabbit when danger
appears? And the assertion that many
young rabbits “must continually tend to
be born somewhat deficient in the sense
of location” is the sort of thing you might
expect from a professor lecturing on in-
herited psychology, but not from
“Naturala.”
“Caballer”; I kept rabbits for years,
and they are the only animals I know that
require no water, not even with dry food
such as bran or oats. They are glad
enough to hop into a cabbage or lettuce
leaf, but there does not seem enough
moisture in a leaf for an animal a rabbit’s
size. Carnivorous animals are usually
small drinkers and lap water, while the
herbivorous types such as cows and horses
sink eight to ten gallons at a time. The
rabbit and koala are the exceptions.
* * * *
“Blime”: To a bloke who’d never
struck anything more sagacious, that mes-
sage delivery of “E.P.’s” dog (B.
22/3/’44) would seem smart work ; but
listen to this. Old Charlie owned a big
splayfooted mong with not a redeeming
feature as far as I could see. However,
he and Chas, seemed to understand each
other, and he’d always come and sit in
the hut at nights watching Charlie clean
up the mob at cards. Slogger usually
"No, this ain't a ruddy Well , mate — it's a fox-hole!"
lost, and each night Charlie’s luck puzzled
him and made him more than ever deter-
mined to beat the old chap at the game.
The bust-up came the night Slogger
wagered his saddle and bridle —that being
all he had left after his pay cheque,
braces, whip and spare pants had gone.
The mong was, as usual, looking on.
Presently Slogger drew a full hand, and
Chas. refused to bet. Next, he collected
four aces, glanced suspiciously at the
mong, went the limit, then quickly looked
back at the dog. Charlie bit, and tabled
a routine flush. Soon as he did Slogger
bounced to his feet and pointed accus-
ingly at Blue. “See ’im?” he roared to
the mob. “See what ’e done? So that's
how Charlie wins. Gets his mong t’ sit
where he c’n see the other bloke’s hand
an’ give him the wink when t’ bet.”
* * * *
“Sur Cingle”; But do horses eat bread
(B. 22/3/’44)? My experience is that they
don’t, until someone teaches them. Of
course a poddy foal hanging round a
camp may pick up the depraved taste,
but I’ve yet to see the bush horse who’d
be a customer for the baker at his first
introduction. And the same goes for
sugar.
♦ * » *
“Sou’-west”: No one but a townie
would get fed-up with the elderly lady
at the store and go out of his way to
insult her as did “Peter Boyle” (B.
15/3/ ’44). Knowing a bit about your
neighbor’s business is the very essence of
country life. For instance, if the tenderer
partner of the young couple up the creek
happens to be “expecting” it’s really no-
body’s business but their own. But when
the critical eve arrives they will expect
and need some co-operation, if only to
look after the livestock while he drives
her 20 miles or so to the nearest hospital
or rides 20 miles to bring the doctor or
another few miles to bring along a com-
petent midwife. And, again, there’s the
common matter of illness. And the wel-
fare of cows, pigs, hens ; market news;
fishing. If Jake, the local fisherman,
happens to have a big catch, how is he
to advise possible customers, many of
whom may have to ride a mile or two,
that fish is going cheap other than through
the medium of the presumed stickybeak
at the store? Country folk don’t resent
such inquisitiveness. Being divorced to a
large measure from the protection of the
police, which extends like an umbrella
over the city-dweller, they are wise in
wanting a few details concerning any
stranger who comes to take his abode in
their community. And where would such
information be garnered and passed on
other than at the centre of communal
life, the store?
« * * *
“Esk D.”: “I’d jist knocked down
a big, holler grey-box in Collins’s top
paddick,” said “Stringy” Ned. “I’m sittin’
on the trunk f’r a spell when I hear me
kangaroo dawg barkin’ like mad; then a
big goanner comes racin’ towards me
with the hound after him. Suddenly the
go. shoots up in the air in a kind of a
spiral f’r 20 feet or so, then turns over,
sorta does its block an’ crashes on the
dawg, stunnin’ ’em both. Yairs, the old
go. had turned to get into the holler be-
fore it woke up that the tree was down! ”
* * * *
“Betcha”; Mackay isn’t the only place
concerned with the grasshopper problem
(B. 22/3/’44), for in other Australian
areas the little brown blokes are every year
becoming more devastating. In a matter
of days they will wipe out gardens and
orchards, strip leaves and bark from
ornamentals and shelter belts, go through
stock feed and mop up green irrigated
pastures to root level. Obviously, one
can’t poison stock paddocks, but in en-
closed areas I experimented with sprays
and succeeded in poisoning a few rabbits
and hares, and in saving nothing. Even
fowls and turkeys were tolerated in the
hope of saving the home paddocks. Now
I’ve given up. Short of a bushfire through
infested areas or a severe drought I see
nothing for it but to wait for science to
lend the farming chap a hand.
* * * *
“Pib”: The true Aboliar refuses to be
suppressed in his avocation, even here
in New Guinea. Young Bill, our promis-
ing corporal, was explaining to a mixed
party of Allied soldiers at the recreation
hut how he had overcome one difficulty.
On an isolated patrol with his section he
lost pen and pencil in a flooded stream.
His first solution was to cut a nib from
the comb adorning the hair of one of his
more furry native carriers, whittle a
holder from a cuttlefish and add fresh
water to pulped fish liver for ink. Un-
fortunately the patrol had then to move
inland, but Bill was lucky enough to
cover a lizard which spat a nasty-looking
black fluid when annoyed. By firmly
grasping the lizard’s neck and calling it
rude names he was able to guide the jet
across the paper to produce a readable
message. The supply of lizards becoming
exhausted, he was next forced to make
a brush of coconut fibre, dipped in the
white milk of a green pawpaw, which
dried black and permanent as Indian ink.
As the brush was pretty coarse he had
to send the message in Japanese. This
system could be used for only one day, as
the patrol moved into open kunai country
with some powerful streams to negotiate,
in one of which Bill lost his message pad.
However, he found a large flat rock on
which he wrote the day’s message in
white coral. One advantage accruing
from the use of this method was that the
runner, firmly clutching the rock, was
able to walk across the bottom of the
deeper streams. His final report alarmed
his platoon commander, as it appeared to
be written by a finger dipped in blood.
All was well with Bill though, as he had
merely chewed betel nut and used the
juice to scrawl on the orderly’s back.
Strangely enough, shortly after his return
to the unit, Bill was in charge of an emu
parade, clearing the area around battalion
h.q, of rubbish, including many scraps of
torn and muddy paper. One of the boys
had collected an armful when a sudden
gust of wind swept the dirtiest piece of
paper into the air and through the office
window (so-called). In horror Bill raced
in like a retriever, but came out crestfallen,
reporting “It’s too late—the adjutaat’s
signed it.” „
* * * *
“Bumpus”: Ever a strohg believer in
the improbable, I firmly believe that yarn
about Bill Harpur’s private beef mine
deep in the frozen Victorian Alps (B.
15/3/’44); I pause to ask only one perti-
nent and impertinent question: Is Bill
putting in his meat coupons regularly for
the steaks and sirloins he cuts off?
* * * *
“B. A. Ker”: He was the only mug
fisherman in the party—and showed it.
His first cast nearly decapitated a willie
wagtail perched on a branch overhead.
The next attempt, somewhat hampered
by the fact that the caster’s foot was in
the slack, turned into an “encircling
movement” and delayed action until the
hook could be ■removed from the collar
of his sweater. But the next cast was
a screamer. Like a swallow it soared, to
land with a melodious “plop” in mid-
river. A perfect cast —if the rest of the
line, cork and all, hadn’t followed the
sinker! Scarcely had the ripples sub-
sided when the cork jerked and suddenly
began skimming over the surface. Twenty
paces upstream it slowed, stopped, then
came racing down again “with a bone in
its teeth.” After about a 30-yard “run”
the return journey began again, the cork
fairly aquaplaning along the water. By
this time the rest of the party had en-
tered into the spirit of the thing, and the
splash of sinkers around and behind the
runaway was reminiscent of a naval en-
gagement. On the fourth lap a lucky—
pardon, skilful —cast snared the line near
the cork. Gingerly it was edged to the
bank, then, just as experienced hands
began to play the big ’un, the line went
slack! It was very mortifying, but I had
the consolation of thinking that I was
the only bloke who got a bite all day.
“Bunyip”; When pea rifles explode
while being taken through wire fences,
the general theory is that the weapons
were cocked. My experience has been
that cocked guns are safer than uncocked
ones. I contend that the trigger-guards
make cocked guns practically immune
from explosion under these conditions,
whereas, with uncocked ones, wire pres-
sure on the flanges of the cocks is suffi-
cient to force them partly back, and when
they are released cause the guns to go off.
* * * *
“M.U.R.”: Nice, touching tribute to
abo. intelligence, that statement (B.
12/4/’44) that Murray River abos. float
flat boards on the water, then stir up the
mud, causing leeches to rise and cling to
the boards and get themselves caught.
But it ought to be rounded off. Whatinell
did the abos, want the things for?
* * * *
“Nor’-west”: One of the deadliest
spears I ever saw in the abo. armament
represented a complete departure from
tradition; it was simply a lOin. length
of heavy fencing-wire fitted into a bam-
boo head and ground to a needle-point.
Such a spear might pass right through a
man or if it struck a bone would bend
inside the wound. Withdrawn, it would
leave only a small puncture, probably
just as deadly as a gaping bayonet
wound. Such a weapon might well
have made its inventor’s tribe invincible,
and without doubt it helped to turn the
tide in more than one tribal battle in the
far Kimberleys. But its advent was fol-
lowed too closely by that of the white
trooper for it to attain the high lethal
place that it deserved,
* * * »
“Wester”: I, too, doubt if that “spirit
of co-operation” has vanished from the
Mallee (B. 12/4/’44) or any other part
of Australia. In the older districts it’s as
strong as ever, as anyone can see who
looks round him in these days of labor
and material shortages. Neighbors help
each other with various jobs, execute
orders in town, etc., and generally carry
on w;ith the good old community spirit.
Some blokes, of course, don’t need the
help of others, but they’d get it willingly
if they did, local feuds notwithstanding.
And I’ve seen it in the cities, too, in
A.R.P. posts and Red Cross stalls, in
local cases of distress and illness. I’m
willing to bet it was strong in those Mel-
bourne suburbs that copped out from
the scrub fires last summer.
THE PALMS.
The lovely palms are, frond for frond,
Reflected in the tranquil pond,
Or, rather, in the flood of light
The moon has poured in it tonight.
I know that this is all deceit,
And yet the palms in counterfeit
Seem far more real than the true
And infinitely fairer, too.
And, since to look on real things
Where war is waged small comfort brings,
I’ll spread my groundsheet here tonight
And watch the palm-trees bathe in light.
A.I.F.
T. S. BROWNING.


“Bo”: Old Jerry Fletcher came out
of the C.P.S. office at Geebung and
pinned the thing on the notice board :
Notice is hereby given that unless the
sum of £9 14s. 6d., together with all fees
due herein, be paid at or before the hour
of noon on Thursday, April 27, 1944, the
bailiff will sell by auction at the Petty Ses-
sions Office, Geebung, the undermentioned
goods and chattels of the defendant, or so
much thereof as will satisfy such claim.
Goods for sale: One Jersey cow. —J.
Fletcher, Bailiff.
From the knot of loungers standing near
by Ted Harris, the pub’s rouseabout,
strolled out. Slowly he read it out aloud.
Then he turned to the bailiff, “You
know, Jerry,” he said, “that cow of Steve
Harper’s is worth at least 25 quid. If
y’ve got to sell only as much thereof as
will satisfy such claim, don’t sell the rear
half.”
♦ * * *
“Mat’s Mate”: When we landed a job
transhipping in a S.A. town we had only
one decent shirt between us, and that be-
longed to Mat. On the second night after
we got there I heard about a dance, so
I borrowed a couple of bob, cleaned my-
self up and went, wearing tie shirt after
we’d taken up the slack with a few stitches
here and there. After a few dances a
couple of the locals invited me outside.
We went round the back of the hall, and
there were a half-dozen or so there. It
turned out that a girl I’d been dancing
with a good bit was engaged to one of
them and he wanted to have me on. I
tried to get out of it, but the mob was
half-full of beer and wanted to see a
fight, so when I saw there was nothing
else for it I started to peel off my coat.
“Leave y’r coat on,” said a voice, and
there was Mat beside me. “What’s the
matter with you?” I asked. “You keep
y’r coat on,” he said, “or there won’t
be any fight.” At this one of the locals
spoke up. “Keep out o’ this, big feller,”
he said ; “this ain’t your fight.” “Perhaps
it ain’t,” Mat said, pushing him aside ;
“but it’s my ruddy shirt an’ I’m lookin’
after it, see?” There was no fight.
* * * *
“T.1.P.”: Judging by the list of odd
jobs which “C.E.” (B. 29/3/’44) gives
Ma to do while Dad is away, it would
seem that the couple live in a district
"We better have a spell—I don't think Joe'll last the distance!"
where there are queer things done. Why,
for instance, would the new ewes need
branding? And why did Ma take the
saw instead of the axe to cut the log off
the fence? Hunting fqr dogs’ tucker
seemed redundant when there apparently
was plenty of it bogged in the tanks.
And why feed the horses and cattle when
there was sufficient grass for a bushfire?
“Botano”: That the seeds of wilga
and carob-bean germinate freely after
having passed through the digestive tract
of the emu may be due largely to the
heat of the bird’s body (B. 22/3 /’44),
and also to the emerged seed finding itself
in a highly manurial environment. The
action of the digestive juices, however,
is hardly likely to have much to do with
the process ; for it is just on that point
that Nature has most strongly armed
most seeds. Overdeveloped seeds such
as wheat digest with considerable ease,
but most other seeds have a casing cap-
able of resisting even prolonged exposure
to the bird’s digestive juices, although the
same seeds will respond readily to plain
water. Have noticed this on “resting”
poultry runs. On such ground, scratched
over numberless times by keen-eyed
fowls, one might expect that not a seed
would escape, yet let the birds be re-
moved and the first shower of rain will
bring such a sprouting of weeds that not
a square inch will remain uncovered.
Such seeds, arrived mixed with the feed
wheat, may have been picked up and
swallowed a dozen times without being
affected. Nature devised such resistance
just so that seed would be eaten by the
bird and then voided intact, thus spread-
ing over wide stretches of country. That
similar plants were found in widely
separated parts of the world was probably
due to seed carried in this way by thou-
sand-mile migration of birds.
* * * *
“Camsa”: During the season A. S.
Dutschke, of Clare (S.A.), sewed 530 bags
of wheat in a day of 11 hours. Last year
he sewed 23,000 bags, and this season
14,000, his daily average for an eight-
hour day being 425. He works with a
Simpson bag-filler, goes by the watch
and sews 12 to 14 roll stitches in each
bag, looping the ear in a special way.
That effort must be close to the record.
* * * *
“Naturala”: Jhese window-climbing
frogs are quite in line with a few
batrachians I have known. There have
been croakers which, when the rain-barrel
got a bit monotonous, climbed up its in-
ward-sloping inside and perched on the
rim ; if pushed back into the water they
would be on the rim again an hour later.
I have known frogs to climb out of fairly
deep wells, timbered and otherwise. Nature
has two ways of equipping the feet of
such climbers: with suction pads such as
are found on the fingertips of tree-frogs,
and by secreting an adhesive fluid
which in some other species of climbing
frogs makes the fingertips sufficiently
sticky to take a grip, much as one wets
the finger to turn a page or pick up a
small coin. I have never seen such frogs
climbing trees; their food supplies lie
close to the ground, mostly in water.
* * * *
“C.E.”: On the back verandah old
Mick was bending northward as Joe
blundered round the corner from the
south carrying a stepladder and crosscut
saw. Even so, Joe might have got away
with it only that Mick happened to be
examining the contents of a big tar barrel,
and when he presently picked himself out
of the mess he didn’t wait to ask why or
how; he charged. Joe, being a couple
of stone lighter, took refuge up the wire-
less pole. When I arrived he was still
clinging desperately to his perch, while
at the foot Mick’s bloodthirsty plans for
vengeance were constantly revised and
improved. After a bit Joe’s SOS caught
my eye and I hastened to say “There’s a
mob of cows broken into your crop down
the road, Mick. You’d better shift ’em
or they’ll ruin it.” Mick glared up the
pole and said nothing. “Noticed y r
sheep-dog feeding on an old carcass in
Simpkins’s, too,” I went on. “Hope its
not poisoned.” Still Mick took no notice.
I was racking my brains for bigger red
herrings when the rattle of wheels drew
our - attention to the road. A dismayed
gasp escaped Mick. He took an uncer-
tain step forward, his jaw dropped and
his body went limp. “Joe,” he whispered
urgently. “Hey, Joe! Quick, come down
an’ help us clean up this flamin’ mess,
It’s the missus cornin’ home.”
“Remember the new ration—they have to be
non-smokers!”
“Aglum”: “Old Camp” (B. 29/3/’44)
holds up the owl as the shining example
of the fly-by-nights, and places the stupid
chook an also-ran because its eyes are
not stereoscopic. But aren’t fowls just
as brainless in the daylight? The plover
flies and finds his tucker equally well at
midnight as midday; the curlew, lacking
stereoscopic vision, can do it, too. But
the owl would starve if he had to hunt
in the middle of the day. The eyes of
seashore hunting birds haven’t front
sight, yet their eyesight is probably the
best of all birds. And what of
those birds, lacking front vision, that
fly from Siberia, quite a lot of
the long journey being accomplished
at night and over the sea? As to
“normal humans seeing almost as well in
the open night as the day,” the normal
man in daylight recognises objects by
their form and color. In darkness there
is no color, and at 20 yards form is
merely an outline; after that it merges
with the background. When “Old Camp”
can go into his garden in the dark and
pick the grubs off his cabbages without
the aid of a light he will have climbed
the first step of the ladder that the birds
topped thousands of years ago.
* * * *
“Zake”: The tender solicitude evinced
by Authority for the cocky in his tribu-
lations is strikingly illustrated in the case
of a man from Boonah (Q.). With the
packs of dingoes which cheekily munched
his stock-in-trade giving him the warrigal
laugh at his lethal-weaponless state, the
glad tidings came to him that the Army
would, on his paying the prescribed fee,
make available to him rifle and ammu-
nition sufficient,to rid his land of the
pests. In course of time he elatedly greeted
the arrival of a rifle and several packets
of ammo. The rifle was an old Enfield
single shot; on each packet of cartridges
was a warning notice:
COMMONWEALTH OF AUSTRAIA.
Department of the Army.
The within ammunition is over 20 years
old and has been condemned for use by
the military authorities. Its use may occa-
sion split cases, blowbacks or burst cases.
It is not warranted to be effective or safe.
The Commonwealth of Australia will accept
no responsibility for any injury or damage
caused to persons or the property of per-
sons using the ammunition.
And quite right, too! If a man insists
on being the backbone of his country
why shouldn’t he take the risk, when he
gets a loping dingo in his sights, of get-
ting a few notches blown out of his own
spinal column?
* * * *
“Sol”: Resenting Jim’s sorrowful
claim that cattle “ain’t what they was,”
1 inquired the reason. “Well, when this
gully was a roarin’ mining town,’ - said
Jim reminiscently, “an’ there’s a pub
where them yards is, an’ another round
the bend in the horse paddock, yarding a
‘killer’ was about as excitin’ as a new
strike. ’Course the smell o’ blood didn't
help them mountain
cattle none, an’ a beast
mostly cleared the town
of onlookers four or
five times before she was
finally yarded. Extra-
bad ’uns we sometimes
dropped in the street an’
carted to the slaughter-
yards, but only one
ever really beat us.
Cobungra Liz we called
her. Five of us combed
the hills for Liz, but
each time we put her
in she took the fence at
one particular corner.
After about the fourth
break we got fed up an’
stationed ‘Buffalo’ there
on the biggest white nag
we could find. Buff
did his best, whooped
and bellered, an’ got in
a coupla solid lashes,
then his nag jumped for
it, and the flying .tor-
nado sprawled the pair
of ’em into a patch o’
briars. Three weeks
later,” concluded the
old stockman, “Liz
turned up on her home
range at Cobungra sta-
tion, but not before
she’d scrambled the
contents o’ the branch
bank, busted open three
barrels on the pub ver-
andah, shot the John
up a yeller-box, an’ run
the rate collector out o’
town.” Turning, Jim
dogged in a sleepy
beast, while I wistfully
agreed that cattle “ain’t
what they was.”
“Plain Angas”: As I rode into
Combine’s yard the blast of a shotgun
almost blew my mare from under me.
Just then the old chap strolled round the
bam carrying the blunderbuss and a bird
and with a seismic tremor of his whiskers
indicating a grin of satisfaction. He
held up a sparrow hawk. “Got the
blanker at last,” he exulted, “Killed a
couple o’ me chickens on Thursday. He
was always hangin’ round the seed-wheat
at the back there, so I jus’ set down ’n’
waited on him.” I took a look at the
score of lousy fowls that were languidly
rooting up the feather-strewn yard and
thought privately that the bird had de-
served a better fate for his depredations.
“Jolly mice’re bad, ain’t they?” the old
chap went on. “Seen a dozen or so in
ten minutes, waitin’ f’r that there hawk.”
I delivered my message and rode on.
But it seems to me that to knock over
a bird that had killed a couple of chooks
whose eggs, anyway, the old chap never
sells—in fact, he seldom finds them:
they lay anywhere from the binder to the
bathroom —and then to growl about the
mice that’ll probably ruin pounds’ worth
of the wheat from which he makes a
living is just a little shortsighted.
# * * *
“Bad Australian”: I had just arrived
at Tommy the Hermit’s hut when a series
of frantic yaps and bloodcurdling howls
broke out close by. “It’s me dawg
Paddy,” explained Tommy, “I bin down
at the crick tryin’ to ketch a feed o’ cat-
fish, an’ w’en I gets back I finds that me
fowls had got at me batch o’ dough that
I’d left to rise ready to pop inter the
camp oven when I get back. They’d et
the biggest part an’ drug the rest over
the floor in long strings like that stuff
that made them Eyetalians such great
runners. Me noble Paddy, instid of at-
tendin’ to his job o’ mindin’ the joint, is
fast asleep on me bunk, an’ all that yap-
pin’ an’ yowlin’ is account of me givin’
him his ten minutes on a meat-ants’ nest
to leam him to keep awake an’ attend to
bizness in future.”
*** • *
“B. 4”: We, too, had a ram that
couldn’t resist the target of a bending
human (B. 8/3/’44). But one day he
rashly decided to accept the challenge of
the dairy-herd sire. To that bull’s sur-
prise he got a sudden bash between the
eyes that knocked him to his knees.
Rising, he made a frontal attack on the
ram and soon had him down and out. The
ladies of the homestead gloated as he
kneed and gored that wool bale, even
calling off the dogs which tried to inter-
vene.
STRAY DOG.
He followed me from town one day,
A footsore, weary stray;
And though the road was furnace-hot
He still limped on my way.
I think he’d been a drover’s* dog—
A canine class apart—
He guards the hens and trails the horse
And sleeps beneath the cart.
He has no quarrel with the cat,
Shows no desire to roam,
But like my ageing human friends
He makes himself at home.
He’s not a humble kind of dog,
And does not cringe or quail
Or court my smile or fear my frown,
And seldom wags his tail.
No snarling blusterer is he,
But a lone muffled bark
.Warns him who enters my domain
Unbidden in the dark.
Then, bristles up and eye alert,
He stalks the visitor,
His muzzle at the stranger’s heels
As he walks on before.
He is a trusty, silent friend,
With eyes that see afar
And ears attuned for distant sounds,
The way most bush dogs are.
There’s just one thing that troubles me —
No soft food will he eat:
He’s from the land of wool and hide
And meat and meat and meat.
N.S.W.
JIM GRAHAME.


DO YOU LIVE IN AN UNSEWERED AREA
HAVE YOU A WEEK-END COTTAGE
HAVE YOU A VACANT BLOCK OF LAND
DO YOU LIVE IN THE COUNTRY ®
—THEN YOU SHOULD IN ST A L THE.
HYGEIA DISSOLVENATOR
A SELF-CONTAINED SANITARY SYSTEM FOR UN SEWERED AREAS.
This completely self-contained sanitary system will give you all the comforts
and modernity of a city home. It will spare you the barbarities of the closet
pan with its unwholesome odors ... flies ... germs ... emptying ... and
complete lack of comfort. It will give you protection from disease ... save
you embarrassment when you have guests ... make daily life? pleasanter.
The HYGEIA DISSOLVENATOR is a complete unit —modern and attrac-
tive in design—simple in operation. Sewage material is chemically trans-
formed into a sterile solution that automatically drains away into the soil
and—NO WATER SUPPLY IS REQUIRED.
thousands of Hygeia Dissolvenators have been installed throughout
Australia in homes, offices, military hospitals and establishments. Fully
guaranteed, the cost is only £l9/2/6 F. 0.8. Sydney (includes Sales Tax
and Surcharge), slightly more in other States, plus 10/9 crating if by rail.
Don t tolerate the horrors of the old-fashioned closet pan or cesspit any longer.
Instal a Hygeia Dissolvenator.
%
WRITE FOR PAMPHLET TO
HYGEIA SANITARY COY. PTY., LTD.
28 Bridge Street, Sydney. ’Phone, 81052
AGENTS: — Victoria: Viet, Producers Co-nop. Co, Queensland: Qld. Pastoral Supplies Co.
South Aust. : Harris Scarfe Ltd. Tasmania ; W. Crosby & Co. Pty., Ltd. I Vest
Aust.: Powell Gas Producers, Ltd. ’ n r aa.
7
Australian, Mercantile, Land & Finance
Company, Limited
(INCORPORATED IN ENGLAND IN 1863)
WOOL, FAT STOCK, STORE AND STUD STOCK,
PRODUCE AND PROPERTY SALESMEN
General Manager for Australia: R. SINCLAIR SMITH.
ADVANCES MADE ON GRAZING PROPERTIES, ON STOCK, AND ON
CONSIGNMENTS OF WOOL, SKINS, HIDES, TALLOW, ETC.
LICENSED AUCTIONEERS, STOCK AND STATION AGENTS.
SYDNEY OFFICE: A. M. MURDOCH, Manager.
ALSO AT MELBOURNE, BRISBANE, NEWCASTLE, WAGGA, HENTY, HAY, MOREE,
TOWNSVILLE, CHARLEVILLE, BUENOS AIRES, LONDON.
GENERAL AGENTS IN NEW SOUTH WALES FOR NORTHERN ASSURANCE CO.. LTD.
For Mineral Mixtures and Licks for
Bone-chewing Cattle
BONE
ai--®*
Sterilised
FLOUR
To Remedy
Phosphorus Deficiency
in Pastures and Fodders
Tri ral-os Bone Flour is purely a bone product without admixture
of* lt contains a eed ot
32.5 per cent, phosphoric acid and 40 per cent. nme.
All particulars from
DAVIS GELATINE, G.P.O. BOX 35835, SYDNEY.
G.P.O. Boxes—4osB Melbourne, 758 K Brisbane, 712 P Adelaide, 588 Perth.
THE MAN ON
THE LAND
"DON'T WORRY. I'M SENDING IT TO
GRAZCOS."
The Manchester Method.
“BLN.”; Its originator, Capt. L. L.
Manchester, B.V.Sc., a stock-inspector
at Charleville (Q.), avers that it is simple,
cheap and ahead of the Mules operation
in that it does away with cutting of the
skin and remains a permanent job. Man-
chester has devoted nearly nine years to
the task, which cost him hard work and
expense, as well as opposition. Tested
under severe conditions, the method is
claimed to have proved 100 p.c. effective.
Queensland graziers who have tried it
are prepared to testify to its value, both
for crutch and tail and for body strike.
Some of them have stated that sheep
treated as long as eight years ago have
remained immune from blowflies without
further crutching or treatment of any
kind,
Manchester has patented the method,
which must remain his secret, but it can
be said that the object is to create a
small, bare patch on the crutch to obviate
crutching or jetting throughout the life
of the sheep. The cost of the chemical
is very small, two men can treat 50 ewes
an hour and, except for a small dressing
subsequently applied once only, the ewes
are immune for life. The Manchester
method forms hard scar tissue in place
of soft skin in the sheep’s most vulnerable
area.
One of the great advantages claimed
for it is that it cart be done at lamb-mark-
ing time and therefore cuts out subse-
quent cost and labor in crutching, treat-
ing, operating, etc. The whole process
is clean, without blood, and the sheep
recover immediately, and begin feeding
contentedly. The C.S.I.R, has pro-
nounced it effective, and Manchester is
now inviting both State and Federal Gov-
ernments to make practical tests of it as
a means of saving Australia from the
enormous annual loss caused by flystrike.
“Flock Ram”: Manchester chemi-
cally treats the crutch to effect a bare
patch. In eight years no wool has grown
on the treated parts, and according to him
none will grow during the entire life of
the animal. His process is under obser-
vation at the national research station,
Gilruth Plains. Dr. L. G. Bull, chair-
man of the C.S.I.R. blowfly control com-
mittee, states that the first fly to strike
is the only danger. Secondary flies
consume the larvae of the primary strike.
Therefore control the initial strike and
you control the entire menace.
Water and Soil Conservation.
“Plane Creek”: Trees are necessary
on the farm, particularly around streams
and waterholes. They shelter stock, pro-
vide rough timber and fencing posts
and prevent soil erosion. Permanent
watercourses often lose their permanency
immediately after the scrub along their
banks is cleared, though seasons are no
drier.
Watercourse timber breaks the force of
hot, dry, evaporating winds whilst afford-
ing partial shade over the stream from the
sun. Another advantage is that wind-
eroded soil from near-by dry country is
prevented from drifting into the water
channel, silting it up and muddying the
water.
Tt’s best to leave natural bush growing
along stream banks. Rich soil may
tempt the would-be vegetable grower, but
dangerous erosion consistently follows
the destruction of waterside scrub. Where
timber is absent, something should be
grown—both water and to check
erosion and the spread of Watercourses
far beyond their legitimate boundaries.
Grow plants that offer feed for grazing
stock where possible. That doesn’t mean
that plants should be chewed down in-
cessantly so that they are unable to pro-
duce either leaves or roots. Bamboo is
good for all districts. Easy to establish,
it provides some green feed and consoli-
dates drifting soils well. The carob bean
tree might be grown, though it favors a
dry terrain. Being leguminous, a peren-
nial green manure provider, the carob
encourages grass to thrive in its shade.
Growing from 30ft. to 50ft., it produces
crops of large edible beans in season.
Stock may pick up fallen beans or they
can be collected by the farmer and
ground into meal.
Many nutritious grasses are useful for
protecting stream banks. They spread
quickly, and the rougher the slope the
more they go in for soil-binding roots.
Kikuyu, Guinea, couch and Rhodes are
good, Para and elephant grass even better.
Numerous districts have their own plants
that combat erosion. Secret of success is
to grow plants and trees that are good
growers in your particular region.
Fluid Branding.
“Beefo”: I read that an old art has
been rejuvenated—that of branding cattle
and horses with a mixture said to destroy
the hair., with the claim that the new
fluid renders the brand effective for 15
years. Some years ago, something simi-
lar didn’t meet with much success, as dur-
ing the winter, when the hair grew heavier
and longer, it was practically impossible
to distinguish the brand. As the hide
itself wasn’t marked there was no means
of determining ownership.
There’s no reason at all for the heavy
losses caused by fire-brands reducing the
value of hides. The law should insist
that cattle be branded on the less valu-
able hide portions, on the neck or low
down on the thigh or shoulder.
The new branding mixture might be
all right as far as it goes, but unless it
leaves an indelible mark on the hide itself
it’ll be valueless in a court of law. Ear-
marks count for naught; it’s the brand
in the hide that wins the verdict.
Potato Moth.
“Spud”: For a novice I grew a fair
crop of potatoes this season, then lost
nearly all of them through ignorance.
Only 15 p.c. are fit to use ; grubs have
ruined the rest. I sowed the seed only
Sin. deep instead of 4in. to 6in.,
and left the crop in the ground too long
after ripening. Larvae of the potato moth
got into the tubers.
When digging the bags were covered
with tops and more larvae from the tops
crawled into the bags. Left the bagged
spuds in the field for over a week, thus
allowing them to become well infested.
When stacked in the shed I never troubled
to look at them for over six weeks and
by this time the grubs had them riddled.
I’m wise now. When potato moths are
about tubers should be well dusted before
stacking with pyridine, one part, and
kaolin, 19 parts, which will kill grubs
and prevent reinfestation. Four ounces
of dust will cover 281 b. of potatoes. Put
tubers and dust into a drum and stir
them about with the hand.
Beali-seed Crops.
“B.”: Bean seed sown from February
to March misses heat and weevil attack
and still has warm weather in which to
ripen. Allow Sin. to 12in. between
seeds, 3ft. between drills, and plant 201 b.
to 30lb. per acre. Superphosphate at
rate of 2|cwt. per acre helps produce
plump beans.
Watch the area. Pull out the plants
that don’t conform to type in blossom,
habit or growth of pods. Cultivate as
for green beans. If the season’s damp,
don’t hill the rows. Market the first
setting of pods as green beans to obtain
a uniform ripening of the seed. Hoe or
pull out the plants when majority of seed
pods are dry, well matured but not
opening.
When grading, throw out badly-shaped,
discolored or small seed. Good crops
return 15 to 20 bushels of graded seed
per acre.
Tomato Soil.
“L.C.”: Tasmania reports that heaviest
crops of Bounty tomatoes on the north-
west coast, 1942-43, were grown on basal-
tic red loam manured for the previous
crop. Grey sandy loam given blood and
bone, plus poultry manure, and light loam,
river wash, manured for previous crop,
tied for second place. Red medium loam
given pre-plantijig dose of super, and deep
red loam lightly manured came third and
produced equally heavy harvests. In each
case quality was excellent.
In other districts large quality crops
were harvested from red clay loam fal-
low given superphosphates, and black
loam given stable manure and dry con-
ditions. Production was poor to light.
on heavy clay loam given blood and bone
and poultry manure, on light peaty soil
given cow manure during a dry season,
and on light sandy loam given blood and
bone.
Hints for the Farm.
“L.C.Q.”; When growing lucerne for
seed, run a few beehives as a sideline or
offer a bee-farmer a good site on the
property. To be successfully pollinated,
lucerne flowers have to be stripped, and the
bees provide a stripping and pollination
service that doubles the quantity of seed.
Where lucerne’s grown in quantity for
seed, honey output is always heaviest.
Cut for hay, a fair quantity of it still
reaches the flowering stage in time for the
production of nectar. Lucerne honey
candies quickly without treatment.
There’s always a good market for it.
“B.”: Get rid of milky-mangrove trees.
Mostly found in mangrove areas, they re-
semble the fig-tree. Sap is highly dan-
gerous. Children who have chewed it in
mistake for fig-sap have become dan-
gerously ill afterwards. Cattle don’t
often eat the leaves, but when they do
it’s mostly the last meal. If the sap gets
into the eyes it causes temporary blind-
ness and intense pain to man and beast
alike. Sap is known in India as “tiger’s
milk.”
“E. 2”: The Chinese cabbage is easily
grown, early maturing, more delicate in
flavor than ordinary cabbage, and a quick
source of greenstuff for poultry. Treat-
ment is similar to that for brassicas, but
the Chinese cabbage does not heart. When
fully grown it is much improved by
blanching, done by tying the outer leaves
together at the top. Wong Bok is the best
sort.
“Gip”: A useful hoe for the home
garden or for cultivating between plants
where the horse-cultivator can’t reach
can be made from an old horseshoe. I
used a No. 7, sharpened the points axe-
wise in the forge and tempered. Then I
fitted by means of the nailholes a piece
of hardwood Sin. by 4in. and bored a
liin. hole in the centre. If there isn’t a
bit or auger large enough, bore a smaller
hole and enlarge with a red-hot piece of
iron. With a bush sapling for a handle,
it made a handy tool which cost nothing
and will last well. The horseshoe points
could be drawn out and bent into a loop
in the centre, on the forge, for a more
permanent job.
“Plane Creek”: There’s nothing better
than insects to keep chicks and ducklings
healthy. Tell the missus to turn out the
old trunks and boxes; they won’t miss
a cockroach. Very young birds may be
given white ants (termites) from bush
beds. A lump of ant-bed, finely crushed
and placed in the pen, will keep ’em busy
for hours.
“Portergaff”: Paintbrushes stored in
water between jobs will last longer if a
small hole is bored in each handle level
with the shoulders. Insert a lOin. piece
of stout wire into the holes and leave
brushes suspended in a can of water.
This will allow the hair to keep its proper
shape and prevents the metal casings
from rusting.
“Nedher”; Don’t oil the clock with
any bid oil. Pour olive oil into a clean
bottle with a strip of sheet lead and
expose it to the sun for two to three
weeks. Pour off the clear oil, and the
result is a lubricant which will neither
corrode nor gum.


STATE EXPRESS
m
tsumysp&ade /
To-day's best buy —
FIRST VICTORY LOAN
. . . BONDS . . .
19500-11 42
Saved - ■
BY DUNLOP!
&
Zb
f V
Dunlop workmen have fashion-
ed with consummate care these
Triangular Life-Saving Boats
and the hundreds of other rub-
ber items which are being sup-
plied to our Air Force. These
Dunlop workers know that a
man's life may depend on their
workmanship so they utilize to
the utmost the Dunlop exper-
ience gained in over 50 years of
rubber manufacture.
DUNLOP
RUBBER AUSTRALIA
LTD.
D. 2
UNCABLED ADDITIONS
Vast Pacific Supplies.
(From a report by a N.Y. “Herald Tribune "
correspondent at an advanced American base
in New Guinea.)
Behind recent military moves in the
Pacific is a supply organisation so vast
as to be almost incomprehensible.
In five weeks I travelled 1200 miles
through northern and eastern New
Guinea and visited the Cape Gloucester
area in western New Britain, and wher-
ever X went—by airplane, jeep, truck, by
Navy and Coast Guard landing craft,
by small patrol-boats and on foot—I saw
evidence of growing military might that
some day will win smashing and decisive
victory for the Allies. I am more than
ever convinced after this trip that it will
be a long pull before final Allied victory
in the Pacific—perhaps 1946 or even 1947
—but when it comes it will be over-
whelming.
The Huon Peninsula, in north-eastern
New Guinea, is a tremendous base, with
unbelievable quantities of all sorts of
supplies for miles along its rugged shores.
But this is only a relatively small supply
area compared with those farther back—
from Buna eastward to Milne Bay along
the north shore of New Guinea and at
Port Moresby, on the south coast of New
Guinea.
These areas are so vast that no single
Jap attack, however powerful, could
affect them more than slightly; they are
developed far beyond the wildest dreams
of the Japanese, who tried to capture
them in 1942 with equipment so puny
that to see it alongside of American
material draws almost involuntary
laughter.
Even more impressive than the swarms
of road-building machines, the fleets of
landing craft, the thousands of motor
vehicles, the dozens of Liberty ships and
other vessels that one sees on a tour of
these places are the amounts of supplies
stored at and passing through these great
bases.
One’s eyes pop out at seeing acres of
gasoline drums—each holding 55 Ameri-
can gallons. You begin to get dizzy after
you’ve travelled scores of miles through
warehouses filled with every conceivable
want of a human being. You begin to
reel when you see some of the figures
with which supply and transportation offi-
cers at some of these bases have to deal.
One advanced base alone —and not the
largest—extends for more than 30 miles,
almost without a break, along the north
shore of New Guinea and at places miles
inland. One of its several telephone ex-
changes handles an average of 232 calls
an hour. A motor vehicle assembly line
at this base turns out an average of one
vehicle every 25 minutes —complete from
crate to running condition,
Troops, airplanes and ships in this war
are supplemented by bulldozers, road-
scrapers, tractors, cranes, hole diggers,
ditch diggers and other equipment of
which I hadn’t even heard when I left
the United States two years ago. When
you see it stretched out for 1200 miles, in
areas that 12 months ago and less were
tropical jungles, you get more than a little
thrill.
Polish Vote in U.SiA.
(From a N.Y. “Herald Tribune” article by
Mark Sullivan .)
There are in America some three mil-
lion or more people of Polish descent,
immediate or remote. They are racially
self-conscious and gregarious. Many are
organised into social or fraternal associa-
tions, with many of the associations
centring about their churches. They have
a numerous Polish-language press.
About what Russia may do heated dis-
cussion has seethed for many months in
Polish-American circles. While there are
shifts of feeling from time to time and
while much depends on just what Russia
ultimately does, the prevailing attitude
of Polish-Americans so far has been fear
of Russia, resentment against intentions
imputed to her.
From the beginning of large Polish
immigration to the United States the
Poles have tended to act together in poli-
tics. This will be intensified the present
year by the crisis in their homeland.
If Russia finally acts about Poland in
a way that Poles generally resent, and if
such action by Russia seems assented to
by the Roosevelt Administration, the
Poles will be practically certain to express
resentment in the election.
Whatever direction the Polish-Ameri-
can vote takes will be important, for
many Poles are massed in large cities in
doubtful States. There are large groups
in Michigan, Ohio, Illinois, Pennsylvania ;
considerable groups in New York, New
Jersey, some New England States. In
several Congress districts the Polish-
American vote is decisive.
Bad Days in France
(.From N.Y. “World-Telegram.”')
The situation inside France appears to
be growing more tragic every day, accord-
ing to information filtering through via
Spain and Portugal. Behind the reign of
terror which the French Gestapo has
been conducting is a panicky Germany,
expecting the British and Americans to
land on the French coast. Her purpose
is to prevent an uprising timed with the
invasion.
After the Stalin-Churchill-Roosevelt
meeting at Tehran Berlin bore down on
Vichy with what amounted to a fresh
ultimatum. The Germans wanted a
wholesale shakeup of the Vichy Cabinet
and of department heads throughout the
country. They submitted a long list of
names of those they wanted fired, and
another list of those they wanted
appointed. At the head of the list of
desirables was Marcel Deat, former
Communist leader, but now the most
rabid of French Nazis. Another was
Philippe Henriot. A third was Joseph
Darnand. Deat, Berlin insisted, was to
head a single Nazi-type party in France
and destroy all others. Petain objected
to all three. He told the Germans that
Pierre Laval had authority to appoint but
that he, Petain, still held a veto. And he
intimated that if Laval selected objection-
able Ministers the veto would be used.
Thereupon Ribbentrop brutally in-
sulted the old marshal. Vichy became
tense. Machine-guns appeared in the
streets. After a series of long confer-
ences, accompanied by threats, a com-
promise was reached. Deat was dropped.
but Henriot and Darnand were retained.
Today Darnand, who seems to be a sort
of Himmler, is the head of a French
Gestapo. Many of the regular police
have been “retired” or just plain fired,
and others selected to fill the vacancies.
The outfit has been newly armed and
trained by the Nazi Gestapo.
Marshal Petain’s position is still a
riddle. French opinion itself is divided.
Some Frenchmen regard him as the arch-
traitor of them all, while others believe
that, however mistaken, he is still a loyal
son of France. Petain has often been
badly treated, and even humiliated, by
the Nazis. Yet he persists in hanging on
to his job. Many French people believe
he submits to the insults because his only
alternative is to resign and leave France
in the hands of Laval, who is one of the
“insults” the Germans have forced him
to accept, and whom he loathes and dis-
trusts. By enduring the humiliation, these
say, he believes he saves France from at
least some of the misery which otherwise
might be inflicted upon her.
Vansittart Points.
C From a N.Y. “Times Magazine’’ article by
Lord Vansittart, former British Permanent
Under-Secretary for Foreign Affairs.)
Following are twelve points on which
we must all insist. Alone they will not
ensure peace, but without them no peace
is possible. They require amplication,
but here is the rock-bottom minimum for
security.
(1) Unconditional surrender of Ger-
many and of other Axis and satellite
Powers.
(2) Effective occupation of Germany
by an Allied army and air force and the
establishment of an inter-Allied council
of control to be maintained until it is
decided by the Governments concerned
to be no longer necessary.
(3) The arrest and trial of persons be-
lieved guilty of war crimes in countries
where they were committed. Neutral
countries should be requested not to give
sanctuary to any war criminals.
(4) Complete demobilisation and dis-
armament of all German armed forces.


Safe and Profitable —
AN “A.C.A.” POLICY.
• Old age or untimely death terminates a man’s earning-power, but matures
the life policy.
• Think of your dependants, and the time when YOU will be dependent.
With an A.C.A. whole-life or endowment contract you can’t go wrong. Your
premiums earn bonuses, which accumulate as' the policy matures.
• Take out an A.C.A, policy and you have a front-rank investment. The
Office directs attention to ‘‘The Bulletin’s” criticism (17/3/’43). Policy-
holders get 90 p.c. of the profits.
Australasian Catholic Assurance
COMPANY, LTD.
Head Office: A.C.A. Building, 66 King Street, Sydney.
E, J. Mooney, Managing Director. P. J. Ryan, Secretary.
Branch Offices:
Victoria; A.C.A. Building, 118-126 Queen Street, Melbourne,
Queensland: A.C.A. Building, 270 Queen Street, Brisbane.
South Australia: Bank of N. S. Wales Chambers, 12 King William Street, Adelaide.
Western Australia; Warwick House, St. George's Terrace, Perth.
District Offices and Agencies Throughout the States.
w
mm
m
m
„ <
vm
mmsm
cam
you,
VICTORY
LOAN BONDS
Interest accrues from Date of
Subscription
THE GRAMOPHONE COMPANY LTD.
(Incorporated in England)
HOMEBUSH N.S.W,
fafrtWs!
K.5/44
tfw Hunting /
The day will soon come when our gallant young chaps
Will have hunted and fished and shot out all the Japs«
And back home when they itch for some huntin’ to do
They’ll hop on their jeeps and go shootin’ up ’roo.
Then, whether it’s huntin’ an’ fishin’ for fun—
Or whether a heck of a job to be done.
The battery most coves, from Hedland to Bourke,
Will choose is the Masse—a tiger for work!
There are
Masse Dealers
Everywhere
MB 3-12-43
'Masse
BATTE RIES
are tigers for work !
Please use
■* BRYLCREEM
The Services want it!
As all the Brylcreem at present being made
Is going to the Services, you may find diffi-
culty in buying it. So use as little as you
can each time and massage drop well
into your scalp* And here is a useful hint*
When the jar is nearly empty add a teaspoon-
ful of clean, cold water, shake vigorously and
note how clean the cream comes from the
jar. Yesl you can use the last drop.
0>
Speed the Victory—invest in the First Victory Loan.
including the surrender of the German
Fleet and Luftwaffe; the same procedure
to be applied to other Axis Powers.
(5) Police forces in Germany to be
regional, free of central control and to
be demilitarised.
(6) Abolition in Germany of all mili-
tary or semi-military training at any age
in any form whatever, including abolition
of officers’ corps and training corps.
(7) Evacuation of all territories in-
vaded by Axis Powers.
(8) Restoration of or compensation for
loot, machinery and equipment removed
or destroyed. Also, restoration of or
compensation for commercial and indus-
trial interests forcibly acquired or seized.
(9) Effective control and, where re-
quired, the closing down of Germany's
war potentials, including aviation in all
its forms.
(10) No financial loans or assistance to
be permitted to Germany or to any of
the other Axis Powers without the ap-
proval of the Allied Nations.
(11) The curriculum of’school and uni-
versity studies to be under inter-Allied
supervision and advice until the re-educa-
tion of the German people is assured in
accordance with the principles of inter-
national goodwill.
(12) German Radio and all propaganda
to be under inter-Allied supervision for
such time as may be necessary.
Glider Troops.
(From an article by Chicago “Tribune v London
correspondent John Thompson .)
You don’t hear much about glider
troops. For one thing, we have not used
them yet in this war. But the principal
reason for their anonymity has been the
glamor attached to the paratroopers who
form the other part of our air-borne
units.
After living with glider outfits in
Britain as well as others I met in Africa
it seems they really are the forgotten
soldiers. Unlike parachutists, all of
whom are volunteers, glider infantry and
artillery engineers entered the army in
the usual fashion. They draw no extra
pay, although their work appears to be
equally as hazardous as paratrooping.
Their uniforms, too, are indistinguishable
from any ordinary troops’.
When the time comes for invasion
these rugged soldiers will go forward
crammed into either American Waco
gliders or British Horsas towed behind
the reliable C-47’s at the end of a 300 ft.
nylon rope. They like to joke about
themselves as “towed targets.”
But anyone who has seen these gliders
realises there is much truth in the jest.
The only thing between them and the
enemy is a mass of plywood, canvas and
metal struts; no armor and no arma-
ment.
The ride in the glider is experience
enough without bouncing over the rough
air into hostile territory where anti-air-
craft guns may open up against them at
any moment. A glider ordinarily rides
slightly higher than a tow ’plane, but not
enough to escape “prop wash” in which
it bucks, rolls and pitches like a small
boat at sea. Consequently, airsickness is
the glider soldier’s bugaboo.
Dragnet Digest.
(i Condensed from various acknowledged sources .)
One of the reasons for General Eisenhower’s
appointment to be invasion commander was his
success in welding British and American forces
into one army with a minimum of friction.
Apropos of his insistence upon smooth relations,
Associated Press correspondents related a story
that was going the rounds in London: The
general called in a subordinate who had been
quarrelling with a British staff colleague. “I
have investigated your dispute,” Eisenhower
told him. “You were right and he was wrong.
But you called Colonel Blank a British so-and-
so. I wouldn’t have minded if you had only
called him a so-and-so. But you can’t call any-
one a British so-and-so and still remain in my
command. You are going home.” — N.Y.
“Herald Tribune.”
* * * *
We hear much of the Japanese Emperor’s dis-
like of and opposition to the war with China
and later with ourselves; but we hear nothing
of any atempt to veto the plans or to appeal to
the masses over the army’s head. — Manchester
“Guardian” correspondent.
* * * *
The American Navy today is much the great-
est in the world. In two years America has
seen naval construction never even approached
by any other nation. Japan now is left far
behind in the building race. America is
turning out the equivalent of one new Japanese
fleet every eight months. The American Navy
today is two and one-half times, and in a year
may be three or four times, the size of that ot
Japan. — "United States News.”
# * * *
Too many Turkish interests have been doing
tpo good a business in recent years for them to
welcome entrance into the war. Trade has been
flowing in all directions, with the possible ex-
ception of north into Russia. A change-over
on to a war footing would disrupt the national
economy of Turkey to such an extent that
pressure is unquestionably being brought to
bear in favor of the present indecisive stability.
—London correspondent N.Y. “Times.”
* * * *
Great Britain deserves full and sympathetic
understanding from other nations, particularly
the United States, of the key role that foreign
commerce plays in her well-being. At the same
time, to pursue at one and the same tame a
programme of imperial preference and of maxi-
mum exports to other countries involves a
fundamental contradiction. To the extent that
barriers are created against exports to British
Empire countries from the rest of the world,
other nations will in self-protection resort to
import restrictions of their own. Similarly, it
the United Kingdom Commercial Corpora-
tion remains in operation as a Government
agency to promote export trade, the demand
will arise in other nations for similar State
agencies to direct and subsidise their own ex-
ports. It may well be that other nations will
refuse to return to an era of freer trade, so
that Britain will have little choice in the matter.
However, Great Britain’s stake in an expansion
of foreign trade is so great that she can ill
afford to take the leadership, through imperial
preference and Government subsidies, in caus-
ing a general return to the restrictive policies
of the ’thirties. — N.Y. “Journal of Commerce.’
* Ht * *
Hardly a week passes without producing new
evidence of tension between Rumanians and
Hungarians over the Transylvanian border dis-
pute. It is the opinion of persons in closest
touch with Balkan affairs that this tension will
break out into open warfare as soon as, and
not before, German control over the region ends.
—Cairo correspondent “Christian Science
Monitor.”
* * * *
In Argentina, of 13,000,000 people, approxi-
mately 400,000 are Germans or of German
origin. In Brazil there are at least 2,000,000 resi-
dents of German blood, nearly half of them
born in Germany. And there are others in
Chile, Paraguay and elsewhere south of Panama.
But mere numbers fail to tell the story. The
Germans in South America are notoriously well
organised and are strategically placed. In Argen-
tina about 30,000 full-fledged Germans are in
Buenos Aires. Others are in Misiones, up where
Paraguay, Brazil and Argentina come together.
The Germans of Brazil are mostly crowded into
her three southern States —that is close to those
in Argentina.— N.Y. “ World-Telegram” Wash-
ington correspondent.
* * * *
A London boy 12 or 13 years of age today
is 2.4 inches taller and 10.2 pounds heavier than
his father was at the same age and a girl is 2.1
inches taller and 13.4 pounds heavier than her
mother in the same relative period. This was
brought out by J. R. Marrack, Professor of
Chemical Pathology at London University, in a
speech on British war-time food before the
Food Education Society at the London School
of Hygiene. According to Professor Marrack’s
over-all results, Britain’s war-time diet might
be considered the fulfilment of what was yester-
day’s Utopian dream so far as public health was
concerned. The gains in public health are now
“almost history.” Professor Marrack told the
gathering the greater height and weight average
for the boy and girl today and the general high
level of British health could be attributed in a
large part to the controlled war-time diet.
He urged continuation of scientific feeding
after the war. — London correspondent N.Y.
“Times.”
* * * *
America’s present rate of warship construc-
tion enables us to force a continuous strategy
of attack. We do not fear attrition. We do
not have to keep our warships safe in port.
No doubt Japan also has expanded her fleet,
and possibly to an extent which may surprise
us. But whether or not she has replaced her
heavy losses, her ships must come out and fight.
She cannot, like Italy, afford the luxury of a
battle-shunning “fleet in being” even to the
verge of surrender. Her strength is knit together
by sea lanes which she must guard vigilantly.
Once her communications are cut, her whole
empire will collapse.— N. Y. “Times.”
* * * *
Employing many of the same pacifist catch-
words which added so much to the vocabulary
of futile appeasement, a “Peace Now” move-
ment has attracted considerable public atten-
tion. In Washington it apparently is regarded
as “small-time stuff.” Doubtless, too, there
are many well-informed Americans who regard
it as appealing only to the so-called “lunatic
fringe.” But this movement makes a dangerous
appeal in some unexpected quarters. For
example, among persons who in the past worked
ardently for world peace and were disappointed
at the turn history took in 1939, are some
who show themselves susceptible to the false
arguments of “Peace Now.” Then, too, there
are other targets for “Peace Now” among haters
of Mr. Roosevelt who interpret his foreign
policy as a deliberate attempt to cover domes-
tic mistakes by warmongering. The “Peace
Now” movement is inimical to the success of
the American war effort. It will not bring
peace now. But if it confuses the American
people as to the reasons for this war, it may
not only lengthen the strife, but endanger
the hope of establishing peace at its conclusion.
—“Christian Science Monitor.”


Personal and Missing Friends.
TO THOMAS DRYDON CANFIELD formerly of
Bendigo in the State of Victoria but now of parts
unknown.—TAKE NOTICE that your wife FLOR-
ENCE PEARL CANFIELD has instituted proceed-
ings against you for Divorce on the ground of
three years’ desertion Unless you enter an appear-
ance in the Protbonotary’s Office of the Supreme
Court of Victoria in Melbourne within twenty-one
days of the 24th day of April 1944 the case may
proceed in your absence and you may be ordered to
pay costs. —J. R. A. O’KEEFFE, Solicitor, 620 Vic-
toria Street, North Melbourne, Proctor for the
Petitioner.
DARCY GEORGE FORD VX34123 formerly of
Collins Street Mentone and of 2nd/First Australian
Field Regiment but now of parts unknown. —TAKE
NOTICE that your wife JEAN CARA FORD has in-
stituted proceedings against you for Divorce on the
ground of wilful desertion for three years and upwards
Unless you enter an appearance at the Office of the
Prothonotary of the Supreme Court at Melbourne
on or before the 21st day of May 1944 the case
may proceed in your absence and you may be
ordered to pay the costs In the event of your
entering an appearance you must file an answer
with the Prothonotary on or before the 31st day
of May 1944.— CLARKE & NES'S, 395 Collins Street,
Melbourne, Solicitors for the Petitioner.
Safety First!
choose TOP DOG men's wear
When you specify TOP DOG MEN J S WEAR you know that
you are getting top grade garments, thoroughly well made in
every detail garments that look well and last long. They
represent the top value fo'r a coupon investment; so, make
sure that you obtain the service for which they are designed and
then give them the care that means long wear. With the money
you save with S< TOP D O G,” buy National Savings Stamps I
Q
V
v.
GUARANTEED
Inserted by the Proprietors of
TOP DOG MEN'S WEAR
BREKS TROUSERS • SOVEREIGN HATS
?v
10 for 1/1
20 for 2/2
HADE SPECIALLY TO
PEETEHI SDftE TSEOATS
A
Carreras Ltd— 154 Years’ Refutation fob QwAtrrr
A foolish spender is a traitor.
The right place for your money
b in £lO National Savings Bonds!
5066 i
SERVICE DEPARTMENT.
Wants.
To buy key to Carter’s Advanced Accounts,
sixth Australian edition. —3453.
Information Sought.
I have heard that all material supplied to
Australia under lend-lease arrangements is to oe
destroyed after the war. Is this true. 1f n ,
what arrangements {if any) have been made for
Us final disposal?
Terms of settlement for lend-lease goods have
not yet been reached; destruction of tne
material is not at all likely.
« * ♦ *
What is the longest delayed parachute drop
on record ?
Longest known drop was achieved by Lt.-
Col. Lovelace in 1943 for scientific purpose'
He baled out of an aircraft 40,200tt. up,
equipped with oxygen apparatus, dropping Be-
tween 10,000ft. and 15,000ft. before the para-
chute opened.
* * * *
What was the .value qf trade between Great
Britain, Germany and the U.S.A. in 1939.
Exports to Britain — A
Germany, £19,338,000; U.S.A., £115,415,000.
Imports from Britain —
Germany, £16,137,000; U-S.A., £36,448,000.
Exports to Germany—U.S.A., $66,335,000.
Imports from Germany —U.S.A., $67,976,000.
* * * *
How many Roman Catholics and Protestants
are there in (1) the world, (2) the British
Empire and (3) Australia?
(1) 331,500,000 Catholics, 206,900,000 Protes-
tants. (2) 13,000,000 Catholics, 67,000,000
Protestants. (3) 1,161,455 Catholics, 4,566,283
Protestants.
* $ * *
Information on the sinking of H.M.A.S. Syd-
fifty'?
German prisoners state that the Sydney
sighted the 9400-ton raider Kormoran shortly
before dusk in November, 1941, 300 miles west
of Carnarvon (W.A.). Sydney closed in to
establish identity and both ships opened fire
simultaneously; the enemy’s first salvo hit
Sydney’s bridge and set her on fire. Another
salvo started a fire amidships. However, the
Kormoran had been crippled by a hit in the
engine-room and also set on fire; she was aban-
doned and soon after blew up. The Germans
last saw the Sydney disappearing over the
horizon, on fire amidships. Their story has
several weak points, and cannot be regarded as
reliable. Prolonged search for survivors pro-
duced only two empty lifebelts and a Carley
float damaged by gunfire.
* * * *
Would it be possible for a man with no ex-
perience or equipment to take up watch-
mending as a hobby?
Impossible at present, as the necessary tools
and spare parts are unprocurable. Moreover,
the watchmakers’ associations discourage the
intrusion of the unskilled into a highly-skilled
trade.
* * * #
Result of the 1933 Australian Rugby Union
tour in South Africa: (1) All matches; (2) Test
matches, with Australian captains, scores and
scorers?
(1) Played 23, won 12, lost 10, drew one.
Points for, 299; against, 195. (2) First Test at
Capetown, July 8: D. Cowper, capt.; S. Africa
won 17-3; scorer for Australia, W. Biilmann
(penalty goal). Second Test at Durban, July
22; D. Cowper, capt.; Australia won 21-6;
scorers for Australia, Loudon, Cerutti, Bennett,
Sturtridge (tries), Biilmann (three goals and one
penalty goal). Third Test at Johannesburg,
August 12: D. Cowper, capt.; S. Africa won
12-3; scorer for Australia, D. Cowper (try).
Fourth Test at Port Elizabeth, August 26:
S. Malcolm, capt.; S. Africa won 11-0. Fifth
Test at Bloemfontein, September 2: A. Ross,
capt.; Australia won 15-4; scorers for Aus-
tralia, Kelaher, Steggall, Bridle (tries), Ross
(goal), Cowper (field goal).
Brief Answers.
F.H.T.: Before being appointed to his present
position, Lord Louis Mountbatten was C.-in-C.
of Combined Operations K.T.: John Mc-
Cormack married Lily Foley in 1906 S.R.:
No blueprints available for big-game fishing
reels K.N.: It would be possible to drop
9000 ft. and 10,000 ft. before opening the para-
chute A.A.C.: (1) Child would receive a
daily allowance equivalent to the amount
allotted to her by the father up to 3s. (2)
If father and mother were totally dependent,
parents and child could receive a total of 10s.
a day. (3) If a larger allowance is desired,
apply to District Finance Officer, Sydney Show-
ground Trans: (1) I am not such as I was
when beneath the sway of virtuous Cynara. (2)
A brief span of life does not permit us to lay
the foundation of a distant hope.
Answers to Correspondents.
Name and address must appear on the MS -f°
liability is undertaken re contributions voluntarily
submitted; and no M.S. will be returned unless
stamps accompany, MS, should he addressed
the Editor,
The Muse aroused: —
JJ Jj c
Invention and production bloom
Unfettered by the vampire’s greed
We ventured near a yawning doom
With fertile soul for poisoned weed
Awake and let all Nations wring
From nature Nature’s perfect life
All nations blending as they sing
The burial hymn of wars and strife.
M.G.: Chopped-up prose
Couldn’t say on that trifle J.8.L.: Call
again C.M.: Both featherweights D.C.:
It might make a national anthem but it’s still
fi very bad poem D. 8.; Cheer up....JL.
“Out in the Rain” is wishy-washy E.M.T.:
Nothing new in either H.W.J.: Promising.
Rhymes atrocious.'.. .K.G.: Her
eyes are blue in the first stanza and brown Ul
the ] ast E.A.O’M.: If that’s how sunrise
affects you. don’t get up so early F. 8.:
“Thunder” doesn’t rhyme with “number”
L.McT.: “My friends all say this is just the
thing for'you.” They’re no friends of ours.
....H.F.: Oversentimental A.C.; “Aijd he
talked, and he talked, and he talked, and he
talked.” Send him to Canberra T. 0.8.:
Only mildly interested in track gallops L.C.,
G.D.H.: Magazinish... . J.L.: “No Credit” sent
jhe Financial Editor out to get one on tick....
R.1.A.: It doesn’t make a story R.M.E.:
Out and try it elsewhere. Weiry: Send it to
a school magazine .G.N.H.: No haunted
houses, thanks G.L.: “In a flash the chemic
forces of his being changed blithesomeness into
a quick resentment.” He needs a tonic.


HOW WILL MY ESTATE
BE ADMINISTERED?
This is a problem which every thinking man
or woman must face. By appointing The
Trustees, Executors and Agency Company
Limited you obtain the benefit of an impar-
tial Executor with over 65 years’ specialised
experience in the administration of estates,
and the assurance that the interests of your
legatees will be safeguarded until all trusts
are completed.
No individual Executor can offer such per-
manence, security or efficiency. Charges are
fixed and moderate. Consult your Solicitor
or write or call for Free Booklet detailing
the advantages of the Company’s service.
THE TRUSTEES EXECUTORS
1 BLIGH ST., SYDNEY, and at 401 COLLINS ST.,
Capital {paid and uncalled) and Reserves, £960,645.
Sir Alexander Stewart (Chairman); D. Stuart Murray; Sir Claude
Reading, K.C.M.G.; Sir Lennon Raws, C.8.E.; G. S. Colman, C.8.E.;
Sir Alan Newton.
NEW SOUTH WALES DIRECTORS:
Sir Claude Reading, K.C.M.G. (Chairman); W. D. Stewart; R. T. Hilder.
N.S.W. Manager: J. W. Russell French.
General Manager: W. Sydney Jones. Manager; K. M. Hughes.
AND AGENCY COMPANY LTD
Incorporated in Victoria in 1878.
MELBOURNE,
BOARD OF DIRECTORS;
The "Curvilinear” Concentrating Table
SEND FOR
BULLETIN
AND
PRICE.
d
SIMPLE
AND
RELIABLE.
We are the patentees ana manufacturers of this table. Call for a d^onstration.
Can also quote for all classes of mining machinery.wading
nmaleamating tables, magnetic ore separators, classifiers, agitators, e erlastmg
SSfmSr- and oil-fillers, Rendrock and all other explosives and accessories.
Electric motors and Ellison switch gear.
GUTHRIDGE PTY. LIMITED,
Sole Patentees and Manufacturers,
10-12 PARRAMATTA RD., CAMPERDOWN, SYDNEY, N.S.W.
The WILD CAT COLUMN
British Tobacco Co, (Australia), Ltd.
1 Dividends —* s Nominal
12 Mths. Pref. Re-
to Oct., Profit. 64 p.c. Ordinary. serves.
££ £ £
1933.. 585,611 96,507 6 p.c. = 488,068 32,121
1934.. 585,850 96,507 6 „ „ 488,068 33,396
1935.. 685,950 96,507 6 „ „ 488,068 34,771
1936.. 667,761 96,507 7 „ „ 569,412 36,613
Special div. subsidiaries, £307,170 .. 343,783
Cash bonus (3} p.c.), £305,042 .. 38,741
1937.. 911,386 96,507 10 p.c. = 813,446 40,174
1938.. 911,479 96,507 10 „ „ 813,446 41,700
British Tobacco and Subsidiaries.*
1939.. 915,951 96,507 10 p.c. = 813,446 1,200,708
Unexplained additions, £126,960 .. 1,327,668
1940.. 990,140 101,401 10 p.c. = 862,944 1,353,463
Unexplained additions, £ll2l ..1,354,584
1941.. 978,088 111,188 9 p.c. = 843,474 1,378,009
Unexplained addition, £IOO7 .. .. 1,379,016
1942.. 983,187 111,188 9 p.c. = 843,474 1,407,541
Unexplained addition, £16,112 .. 1,423,653
1943.. 981,427 111,188 9 p.c. = 843,474 1,450,418
* After deducting outsiders’ equity in profits and
reserves.
This big holding co. and its five main
operating subsidiaries dominate the posi-
tion in the Australian tobacco trade, and
valuable overseas affiliations help to
strengthen their grip. The operating cos.
include W. D. and H. O. Wills, British
Australian Tobacco, States Tobacco Co.,
Carreras and S. T. Leigh and Co.,
printers and carton makers. Carreras was
welded into the organisation in 1940,
B.T. paying £1,463,335 in a mixed parcel
of its own scrip for the £200,000 of
Carreras ord. capital.
Thus far, war, civilian rationing, rising
costs, difficulties created by bureaucratic
controls and shortage of skilled labor
have not retarded the earning power of
the group. Last year’s £981,427 of profit
was written after providing £117,971 (up
£7575) for depreciation, lifting reserves
for the purpose to £2,313,209, not in-
cluded with the lay-by shown in the
table. Fixed assets figure in the books
at £2,931,696, cost. The pref, div. and
9 p.c. to the ords. called for £26,065 less
than the profit claimed.
The outturn of tobacco and cigarettes
is greater now than before the war. Still,
demand is running ahead of production,
which is governed largely by man-power
available. To meet heavy service require-
ments, including releases to the Red
Cross, Comforts Fund and special classes
of workers, a basic cut was made of
25 p.c. of 1940 supplies to civilian re-
tailers. Actual distributions to retailers,
supervised by State committees, fluctu-
ate from month to month. Retailers are
left to their own devices to regulate sup-
plies to their customers.
A factor affecting the immediate out-
look is the possibility of the 1943 Ameri-
can tobacco crop falling short of world
demand, with a consequent cut in final
allotments. However, B.T.’s local stocks
(book value increased by £1,327,909 last
term) are “reasonably satisfactory, pro-
vided shipping is available for transport
of our 1943 crop purchases within a
reasonable time,” the chairman says.
Commenting on the import side of the
business, he added that:
Shareholders may not be aware that the
subsidiary companies’ requirements of
American leaf are now imported by the
Division of Import Procurement, and, de-
spite public statements biy Government
officials that the division would also be
bound by the terms of the ceiling-price
order, the division continued to charge the
heavily increased prices for the very sub-
stantial shipments which, arrived after the
introduction of the order.
The price ceiling stood in the way of
this increase being passed on by the co.
to the public. So the board asked the
Government for relief. After long delay
the outcome was legislation passed at the
end of last month providing for rebate
of tobacco duties amounting to about
£750,000 this year. This should relieve,
or substantially relieve, the.position which
led to failure of the holding co. to pay
the customary interim div. to the ords.
last month. All increases in the retail
price of tobacco since the outbreak of
war have been on account of Govern-
ment imposts. Manufacturers have ab-
sorbed increased costs within the busi-
ness.
It all suggests that bureaucracy tends
to generate frictions which, if allowed to
develop, will slow up industrial progress.
The trader’s risk of loss has been greatly
increased by the heavy load of prior
charges and restrictions put upon him,
while his elbow is being constantly
jogged by all manner of inspectors and
prohibitions, thus dulling the incentive to
take those risks that will make full em-
ployment, social security and a higher
standard of living possible.
Here are combined balance-sheet
figures for the B.T. group:
1939. 1942. 1943.
Paid capital . . £9,619,186 £11,082,521 £11,082,521
Outside shares* 18,854 89,055 89,022
Deprec. reserve.. 1,985,489 2,366,970 2,469,655
Creditorsf .. 621,631 1,977,576 2,313,209
Freeholds ... 1,138,241 1,227,455 1,263.451
Plant, etc. . . 1,470,620 1,655,134 1,668,245
Stock . . . . 6,625,660 6,195,405 7,523,314
Debtors . . 1,246,264 1,734,700 1,264,041
Investments . . 309,922 1,587,111 1,099,942
Cash ... . . 124,557 647,967 709,941
Goodwill, etc. . . 2,693,293 3,969,610 3,969,610
* Including’ proportion reserves, f Including tax
provision, etc.
To finance last term’s increase of
£1,327,909 in stocks, £335,633 was added
to the amount coming to creditors, which
includes an unspecified provision for tax-
ation. Investments and debtors’ balances
were reduced by £487,169 and £470,659
respectively. The advantages of a strong
liquid position are obvious. The year’s
improvement in the more or less liquid
surplus (£8,284,029) was £96,422.
London Stores, Ltd. (Melb.)
r Dividends
Pref. Ord. To Re- Re-
Feb., Profit. 9 p.c. 35 p.c. serves, serves.
1934.. 16,542 9,000 7,500 42 89,142
5 p.c.
1935.. 19,792 9,000 10,000 792 89,934
7$ P-c.
1936.. 28,925 9,000 15,000 4,925 94,859
10 p.c.
1937.. 30,044 9,000 20,000 1,044 96,903
1938.. 32,961 9,000* 20,000 3,961 99,884
1939.. 29,111 9,000 20,000 111 99,975
1940.. 29,414 9,000 20,000 414 100,389
12j p.c.
1941.. 34,003 9,000 25,000 3 100,392
1942.. 33,998 9,000 25,000 100,390
7i p.c.
1943.. 24,022 9,000 15,000 22 100,412
1944.. 24,365 9,000 15,000 365 100,777
In peace-time service is the keynote of
modern retailing. It means, among other
things, convenient location of the store,
provision of comfort and facility in shop-
ping, variety and quality in merchandise,
equity in prices, brighter stores, better
displays, close study of family budgets,
keen buying, a tight hold upon exes,
and extensive advertising. Many of the
advantages thus enjoyed by the public
under free enterprise have disappeared
under the restrictions and controls im-
posed by a war-time managed economy,
prime aim of which is to cut down civi-
lian consumption and liberate maximum
resources of men and materials for war
needs.
This co., which buys and sells on a
cash basis, specialises in men’s and boys’
wear. Its 11-storeyed building (com-
pleted about 16 years ago) is at the corner
of Bourke and Elizabeth streets, oppo-
site the G.P.0., and around which a large
section of the shopping public flows.
Earnings responded to the pressure of
war-time spending in 1941 and 1942.
Then clothes rationing and price-fixing
and the work that goes with them cur-
tailed spending, slowed up turnover and
created new overhead, which was further
swollen by extra demands from the tax-
gatherer. One result has been a sharp
drop in net earnings, as the 1943 figures
show. For last term the board reports
a small increase in turnover, with lower
gross earnings, offset by savings in exes.
So imposition of the price ceiling about
a year ago hasn’t damaged the co.’s earn-
ing power. No provision has been made to
meet the next tax bill when it arrives. The
£24,365 (up £343) of profit claimed was
enough to pay the prefs. their full con-
tract rate of 9 p.c. and show 7.6 p.c.
on the £200,000 of ord. capital as against
7.5, 12.4, 12.5, 10.2 and 10 p.c. back to
1939. The div. was kept at p.c., the
policy being to distribute profits as they
are earned.
Here are balance-sheet figures:
1940. 1942. 1943. 1914.
Paid capital.. £300,000 £300,000 £300,000 £300,000
Liabilities .. 106,282 112,204 108,294 113,211
Tax provision 5,000 13,000 13,000 --.,000
Property, etc. 414,888 415,838 415,838 415,838
Plant, etc . . 6,360 5,886 5,209 4,a48
Shares in other _ „„. r cn ,
cos. . . 5,804 5,804 5,804 5,804
Stocks .. 88,146 93,413 79,659 90,331
Book debts .. 6,127 4,735 1,296 937
Cash, etc. .. 10,348 24,918 28,901 35,529
Liabilities consist of a mortgage (un-
changed at £99,000) and trade creditors
(£16,211, up £6917), which latter are more
than twice covered by cash, etc., alone.
Stocks (up £10,672) are only approx.
£5OOO higher than the 1939 figure. So
the inventory problem, which promises to
be a troublesome one for retailers gener-
ally after the war, appears to present no
unusual difficulties. The shareholding is
the co.’s interest in London Stores Cafe,
a subsidiary operating on the premises,
which earned a small profit (£115) last
term.
Sydney Ferries, Ltd.
To Re- Re-
Dec.. Profit. Dividends. serves, serves.
£ £ £ &
1934.. 5,901 p.c. = 11,050 54,986
Reserves disappear, £1204 .. • • 53,783
1935.. 11,151 7 p.c. = 11,900 63,034
Prom tax reserve, £5258 .. • ■ 58,292
Written off, £3258 65,034
Insurance claims, £2300 .. • • 62,734
1936.. 12,956 7 p.c. = 12,495 461 53,195
Share premiums, £752 .. •• 53,947
Insurance claims, £2107 .. . • 51,840
1937.. 13,771 7 p.c. = 15,258 50,353
Share premiums, £65 .. .. 50,418
Insurance claims, £1279 .. .. 49,139
1938.. 13,505 6 p.c. = 14,963 47,681
Insurance claims, £1202 . . • . 46,479
1939.. 14,807 6 p.c. = 14,963 46,323
Insurance claims, £1224 .. ■ . 45,099
1940.. 18,604 6 p.c. = 14,963 3,641 48,740
Share premiums, £45 . • • • 48,785
Insurance claims, £1053 .. 47,732
1941.. 14,635 6 p.c. = 15,000 47,367
Capital profit, £20,465 . . • . 67,832
Premium reserve disappears, £862.. 66,970
Insurance claims, £2176 . . ■ • 64,794
1942.. 9,384 4 p.c. = 10,000 64,178
Capital profit,* £s3§l . . ■ • 69,509
1943.. 14,347 5J p.c. = 13,750 697 70,106
Owing to the heavy war-time increase in
costs—-the three main items are wages,
fuel and rentals—ordinary ferry traffic is
no longer self-supporting, and its con-
tinuance depends upon the co.’s other
activities, tourist and amusement traffic
and lighterage, the chairman says. There
has been no increase in fares, except on
one purely amusement service. How-
ever, the rise in costs (over £ll,OOO since
war began) has been largely offset by re-
duction of some of the non-paying ser-
vices and reorganisation of others.
Last term the volume of ordinary ferry
traffic increased. But it was the use of
substitute vessels for the original show-
boats and the lighterage business of tfie
subsidiary that put the spring in earnings.
The two original showboats (they had
been specially fitted out for harbor-
tourist traffic and were the co.’s best
revenue producers) were requisitioned in
September and October, 1942, just before
the busiest part of the season. Hence
the sharp drop in net earnings for 1942.
No consideration has yet been received
for these two boats, which were to have
been chartered, but now are to be bought
outright. Thus the co. has been not only
deprived of its chief earning asset but
also of use of the capital represented by
it. Such action on the part of the Govern-
ment can only tend in the long run to
dull incentive in commercial enterprise-
and slow down progress.
During the year three more ferries (two
of them out of commission) were taken
over for defence purposes. Compensa-
tion was received for two of them, as well
as for three others (which were out of
commission when requisitioned in 1942),
and a net capital profit of £5331 showed
up. The trading profit (£14,347, up
£4963) was 5.7 p.c. on capital, as against
3.7 p.c. and 5.8 p.c. for the two preced-
ing years, and the div. was lifted from
4 p.c. to 51 p.c. Profits include whatever
the wholly-owned subsidiary. Harbor
Land and Transport Co. (paid capital
£107,008) sent along. This offshoot made


Queensland
Insurance Co.
Ltd.
Head Office:
Pitt & Bridge Street#,
Sydney.
The Largest
Australian Company
Transacting
Fire, Marine, Accident, House*
"aolders* Comprehensive, Workers’
Compensation, Boiler Explosion,
Machinery Breakdown, Aviation,
etc.
PATENTS. —Have you an idea worth patenting?
Griffith, Hassel and Griffith, Patent Attorneys,
Asbestos House, Cr. York and Barrack Streets, Sydney,
obtain Commonwealth and foreign patents.— Advt.
* * * »
DAVIES & COLLfSON, Patent Attorneys, Collins
House, 360 Collins Street, Melbourne, C.l. Austra-
lian and overseas Patents and Trade Marks. — Advt.
Death Duties
—and Your Duties
Have you ever considered the problem which might arise over duties and
administration expenses in connection with your estate unless proper provi-
sion is made ? _ , . ..
Do you realise the extent of these expenses ? They arc exemplified by these
details of combined minimum death duties. Federal and State, where there
are no charitable bequests :
Dutiable Estate
£5,000
7,000
10,000
15.000
20.000
25.000
30.000
40.000
50.000
60.000
80,000
100,000
200,000
Combined
Min. Duties
£279
4V7
796
1,596
2,616
3,792
5,126
8,318
12,161
16,625
27,096
38,980
92,150
A large proportion of these charges
must be found within six months
or a high rate of interest is pay-
able.
The planning of your will to pro-
vide for the payment of death
duties and other liabilities, as well
as the distribution of your estate,
is a matter for careful and mature
consideration under expert advice.
For further information consult
The Union Trustee
COMPANY OF AUSTRALIA LIMITEH
[lncorporated in Victoria] Established 1885
2 O’CONNELL STREET, SYDNEY
The onlv Trustee Company having offices each with its own Board of Directors
and Management in three States —New South Wales, Victoria and Queensland.
N.S.W. DIRECTORATE ;
Hon Sir Henrv Braddon, k.b.e. (Chairman); Colin A. Sinclair (Vice-Chairman);
Hon! Sir OrS Waddell, k.b1.m.1.C • A,E. Heath C.M.G.; Robert C. Wrlson;
Hon. Sir Henry Manning, K.C., m.l.c.
Manager ; J. G. H. Shipway Assistant Manager ; L. K. Stephens
CERTAIN DEATH
to RABBITS
ď
The safest, surest, and most economical solution of the rabbit
menace.
The only way to carry the maximum number of sheep is to clear
out all the rabbits.
CVAnogaS
“IT’S THE GAS THAT KILLS THEM”
BUZACOTT-WOLSELEY PTY..LTD.,
throughout Australia. 7-11 MARKET STREET,
SAVES
MANPOWER
Quick relief from
GIN PUIS
GIN PILLS strengthen weak Kidneys
—help them to banish excess uric
acid and other impurities from the
system relief from Rheumatism
soon follows.
Immediately you experience the first
signs of Rheumatism you should lose
no time in commencing with Dr.
Sheldon’s GIN PILLS. They contain
no harmful ingredients and can be
taken by anyone.
Give your Kidneys the assistance they
need by taking Dr. Sheldon’s Gin Pills
NOW.
đ
DR. S H E L D 0 H ' S 27 Piik, 1/9; eo pau, 2/9.
D
. .. k 's/Jb,&. M // S ••
H
I
m
m
iA
■S'v>,
m
M
BM
Wherever the wheels of Industry turn
Since 1858 Ludowici Power Trans-
mission Equipment has played an
important part in the industrial de-
velopment of Australia. First with
their famous Pioneer Leather Belting
and, more recently, with a full range
of equipment to meet every need to
ensure maximum efficiency in the
transmission of power. Ludowici
Engineers are available to give you
the benefit of their expert knowledge
and experience on every power
transmission problem.
€
Leather and Rubber
Belting, Pulleys,
Bearings, Gears,
Hangers, Couplings,
Shafting, Short Centre
Pivot Drive .
LUDOWICI
POWER TRANSMISSION
EQUIPMENT
J. C. LUDOWBCI & SON LTD.
117 YORK STREET, SYDNEY • 20-26 QUEEN’S BRIDGE STREET, SOUTH MELBOURNE
LEND NOW—SPEND LATER! BUY NATIONAL SAVINGS BONDS.
a capital profit of £5803 on sale of assets
during the year.
Here are the combined balance-sheet
figures of the parent and its offshoot:
S'ydney Ferries and Subsidiary.
1939'. 1941. 1942. 1943.
Paid capital.. £249,387 £250,000 £250,000 £250,000
Net reserves*.. 52,309 53,319 72,102 82,980
Creditors! .. 33,540 32,470 28,438 44,836
Landed property 95,182 89,609 86,947 84,875
Ship property 202,852 178,318 153,355 152,754
Plant & wharves 9,750 8,217 7,002 5,569
Stocks & stores <9,542 14,075 15,673 16,478
Debtors .. 17,610 25,369 29,156 22,970
Cash, etc. .. 7,790 27,710 62,164 101,022
* After final divs. t Including taxation.
The fleet now consists of 26 vessels,
which appear to be conservatively valqed
in the books. But as a going concern
these assets are worth what they can earn.
Capital profits, surplus earnings, a reduc-
tion of £6186 in debtors’ balances and
addition of £16,398 to the amount coming
to creditors, with which is lumped an un-
specified provision for taxation, enabled
cash, etc., to be strengthened by £38,858.
The improvement in the more or less
liquid surplus (£95,634) was £17,079.
Sulphide Corp.
For the year to June 30 last Sulphide
Corp.—paid capital £1,050,000 in 600,000
£1 non-cum, participating prefs, and a
like number of 15s. ords. —netted £9190
(down £23,524), and got a refund of
£21,417 from the taxgatherer. No sub-
sidy was received for manufacture of
super., but the co. expects to get about
£9OOO on this account for the year in
question. Of the £30,607 thus available,
£30,000 was handed to the prefs. in a
5 p.c. div. An all-round 10 p.c. was paid
in 1937, since when the prefs, have had
5 p.c. p.a. and the ords. have gone
hungry.
After the worked-out Central mine at
the Barrier closed down in March, 1940,
the co. became an industrial undertaking.
The immediate problem was, and still is,
reconstruction of the capital account on
a basis fair to both lots of shareholders
in the light of future earning power of
the business. Chief source of earnings
is production of cement, super., sulphuric
and hydrochloric acids and limestone at
Cockle Creek (N.S.W.), where the roast-
ing of zinc concentrates for Electrolytic
Zinc also contributes to the pool. Cement
and super, are the principal revenue pro-
ducers.
The sharp fall in last year’s net earn-
ings—due to rising unit costs and reduc-
tion of 35 p.c. in cement and 17 p.c. in
super, sales—and uncertainly as to what
the effects of Government control will be
in the future have caused the board to
postpone reconstruction until earning
capacity of the business can be more ac-
curately determined.
Any scheme of reconstruction must in-
clude lopping ss. off each ord. share to
provide £150,000 towards writing off the
£167,670 at which the Central mine still
stands in the books. As for the prefs.,
the contemplated plan was return of 10s.
per share in cash, reduction of the div,
from 10 p.c. non-cum. participating to
6 p.c. cumulative, plus the right to a small
bonus in the event of liquidation. All
this would reduce paid capital to
£600,000, one half 6 p.c. cum. prefs. and
the other half ords. The prefs. would
then call for £IB,OOO p.a., or about twice
the amount netted from trading last term.
Meanwhile, the prefs. have first call on
any net earnings up to £60,000 p.a.
The financial position at the end of
June last was as follows, expressed
sterling:
Cash £172,965
Government securities .. .. . . 466,779
Sundry investments . . . . . . 60,107
Debtors’ balances .. . . . . .. 48,613
Products in hand . . .. .. .. 26,814
Stores 97,224
Total £872,502
Sundry creditors .. . . • • 49,056
Liquid surplus .. .. .. .. £823,446
Fixed assets:—
Cockle Creek . . .. .. . . 302,090
Central mine .. .. .. . . 167,670
To return the whole of the pref. capi-
tal would leave the co. without adequate
working capital to finance expansion of
turnover which is reasonable to expect
after the war. The co.’s sales of cement
dropped from approx. 50,000 tons in
1938 to 29,000 tons in 1943, and of super,
from 60,000 tons to 30,000 tons over the
same period.
How goldmining bosses move
about! Norman Dale Pitt, after leav-
ing Big Bell (W.A.), wandered here
and there and then took a job as presi-
dent of a metal co. near Seattle. Now he
has moved on to New York to become
president of a similar concern. C. E.
(Pete) Prior, who gave up the job of
managing director of Wiluna (W.A.) to
return to America and for a time became
interested in oil lands there, has since
revisited Australia as a U.S. mineral and
mining expert, and is now in Mexico.
Bob Playter, for some years Lake View’s
Yankee-born and -trained geologist, is
now drawing big money for similar work
in New York. F. F. Espie, who was
general manager of Burma Corp, when
the Japs overrun that country, is now
controlling the Gold Mines of Kalgoor-
lie properties at Kalgoorlie (W.A.).


ure we’ll win... but when?
WELL, MISTER.
A LOT DEPENDS
on you.'
ON ME - fiS
WHAT DO H
YOU MEAN? W
B
I'M WORKING PRETTY
HARO, AND-WELL I
PUT SOME MONEY IN
A WAR LOAN.
Wt
m
u
m
§m
m
a,
m
JUST THIS- TO WIN A WAR
LIKE THIS NEEDS AN
OVERWHELMING WEIGHT
OF MATERIALS AND
ARMS. THE MORE f,
WE GET THE . ‘L ,
SOONER y
WE'LL WIN. 1
THAT'S GOOD. BUT MORE WORK IS NEEDED AND MORE
MONEY,TOO. FURNISH THE TOOLS AND lAY MATES
WILL FINISH THE JOB. BUT IT'S GOING
TO TAKE EVERY PENNY
AUSTRALIA CAN SCRAPE
TOGETHER TO SEE THIS
BIG JOB THROUGH/
At the front, our fighters smash into the enemy with
every weapon we can give them. The Jap is cracking
under their blows. Crack him wide open. Help send
our boys in triumph to Tokyo by lending your money
to speed their Victory. There’s no holding back up
there. Soldier, sailor, flier—they’re giving their best.
This is your chance to give them support. Buy Victory
Bonds. Back our fighters to win as you’ve never backed
them before. Lend as they fight—all out for Victory,
Pennants fly
for Loan Success
Every town and municipality through-
out Australia has been given a loan
quota to fill. Pennants are awarded to
each community that reaches its quota
either in amount of money or number
of subscribers, with special awards to
the leading districts. Mark your appli-
cation form so that your subscription
is credited to your community.
INVEST IN TH LOAN
Make your application at any Bank, Savings Bank, Money Order Post Office or Stockbroker.
___ V-8-19
The Mutual Life and Citizens’
Assurance Company, Limited
Martin Place and Castlereagh Street,
SYDNEY.
Pounded 1886.
There is no better way of p\ widing
cash for your family, or for yourself
when you retire, than by taking out
a policy with The M.L.C,
ASSETS EXCEED £37,000,000
annual income exceeds
£5,500,000.
M. O. Alder. A.1.A.,
General Manager.
Business, Rollery, etc.
“Comnpn«satni-v Frnnomv”
compensatory economy
By preserving a balance between con-
sumption and investment, depressions
L I-*- r i„,„i hoc coiH
can be avoided, Dr. Lloyd Ross has sai .
He has spoken of a major control over
the volume of investment”—“the control
by a Commonwealth credit authority of
r, n ■ . . , i,
the flow of investment and purchasing
power.” A policy so vaguely outlined
could embrace much that is bad as well
qq nnccibilnf onnH
’ u V, A 1., • j;
Dr. Ross s boss, Dr. Coombs, has indl-
cated that Governments are “increasingly
obliged to take positive action to allow
nponlp tri Up f rp p f ar f oc well a c in
people,to be tree in tact as wen as m
theory. Freedom should mean a post-
tive opportunity to do things.” This
“freedom” is to be somehow achieved
hv rpaimpnfatinn FrppHnm tn nirk iobs
by regimentation, freedom to pick jods
and employees is only mechanical free-
dom,” the Curtin Government’s untamed
Director of Post-war Reconstruction says,
Discussing the “compensatory-Budget
theory”—which is to the effect that Gov-
ernments should spend freely and run
into debt in order to maintain employ-
raent in periods of depression, and siphon
off purchasing power and retire debt by
taxation during periods of boom-the
National City Bank of New York
remarks :
In periods of expansion the Government
becomes encumbered with all kinds of excess
personnel, agencies departments, and what not,
whose ideas as to their indispensability ex-
tend far beyond the termination of the original
emergency. Similarly, people on the outside
who have been the recipients and beneficiaries
of the Government’s largesse can seldom bring
themselves to see any good reason why the flow
from the Treasury should be cut off. As the
saying goes, “Who wants to shoot Santa
Claus?” The result is that every period of big
spending leaves the Government on a per-
manently higher level of costs, with more debt
and more taxes.
And comparable difficulties arise as to taxes,
While plenty of people like to see Gpvfernment
expenditures increased, nobody really likes to see
taxes go up. Yet it is implicit in the compen-
satory-Budget theory that taxes be increased
promptly and vigorously to draw off purchasing
power and retire debt as a brake upon in-
flationary tendencies. What are the chances of
this weapon being employed effectively? A
candid facing up to the lessons of our war-time
tax experience is hardly encouraging. Despite
the most compelling reasons for tax increases
in war-time, both to pay for the war and to
sterilise surplus purenasmg power, we nave
witnessed the spectacle ot months of wrangling
over tax bi j is . and not even yet h ave we a tax
programme that is truly anti-inflationary in the
sense of going to the heart of the problem of
reaching excess income where it is being created.
True it is that there have been very suit taxes
U p on t^e me dium and higher bracket indi-
vidual incomes and upon the corporations, but
there has been relatively little done to mop up
the inflationary money which has shown itself
so clearly in excessive and unnecessary spend-
jn g_ While there has been a lot of talk about
sales taxes, spendings taxes and other types of
taxes to meet the situation, between the Ad-
ministration on one hand and Congress on the
Qther> politics , has dominated.
if we are un able or unwilling to fax ade-
quately in war-time, when the need is so clear
and when there is a spirit of patriotism to help,
what chance would, there be nrordinary times of
raising taxes on large masses of people t 0 cut
a perfectly good boom which everyone
was enjoying and would doubtless like to see
continue indefinitely?
Referring to the “oversimplification”
which the compensatory-Budget idea in-
troduces to the problem of keeping em-
ployment stable, the bank goes on to
say:
What it means, first of all, is applying a
f a jj v j ct im. Mo need to bother about the par-
ticular cause of the trouble—whether it be
some basic disturbance or unbalance in vital
parts of the economy. No need to bother
whether exorbitant demands of particular groups
are blocking the channels of trade; no matter
about international trade barriers, or wrong ex-
change rates, or bad tax laws, or other snort-
sighted actions and policies of individuals and
Governments which, in varying degree, may be
responsible for interrupting the even flow of
economic activity. For all these, the presenp-
tion is the same—more Government spending.
The bank is not opposed entirely to
Governments giving assistance in times
» . ~. . ® T . „
°f economic crisis. It suggests that they
could help a great deal by so arranging
public works as to hold projects on the
cbplf when ordinarv business is active
f n f [t . WJae u n °r ainar Y Business is active,
bringing them forward when business falls
off. “Such a policy would be useful both
j n avoiding accentuation of business
t j nrriv ,- f ii n „ enhstantial pm-
Pf aks and Providing sUDstantiai em
ployment and purchasing power in the
valleys. It would also save money, in
that projects could doubtless be carried
out at less cost in periods of business
slack.”
A constructive suggestion might be
added to this New York opinion: trading
banks should co-operate with central
banks to do their share in overcoming
economic problems. Their policy would
have little direct effect on the national
Budget, any mistakes in the way of ex-
cessive credit expansion being primarily a
disaster to the banks. The kegping of
credit policy tied to a commercial basis
has the advantage of the banker confin-
ing his advances to industries which he
thinks are catering for a public need in
an efficient manner, such advances being
repayable out of the ultimate fruits of
the industry, and not being just so much
general taxation of the public purse. The
banker, if he has the knowledge and
training, should be able to put his finger
on real problems of industry and employ-
ment, and advance or restrict credit
accordingly. The key to all successful
credit expansion, whether it be caused
by Governments or by banks, is the ulti-
mate ability to contract that expansion.
In other words, no lasting purpose is
served by raising debt on non-reproduc-
tive enterprises. The undertakings for
which credit is created must be able to
give service for which the public is pre-
pared to pay. Sand-shifting and other
aimless work, together with doles, should
be applied only to “hospital” cases when
the aim is full and steady employment.
In the nine months to March 31 Aus-
tralia spent £412 million on war. This
compares with an outgo of £407 million
in the corresponding period of the previ-
ous year. In March this year expenditure
was particularly high (at £53 million),
compared with £3B million in February
and £37 million in January. The average
monthly expenditure during 1943-44 so
far has been £46 million, which is
only slightly above the average for
1942-43. It is of interest to note that,
out of last year’s war expenditure of
£562 million, £4O million was spent by
departments other than those of the Navy,
Army, Air, Munitions and Aircraft Pro-
duction, or in the supply of reciprocal
lend-lease aid to the United States. The
Department of Supply and Development
1 i
spent £lO million, Home Security £2 mil-
lion, interest on the war debt took £l5
million, and rationing, “rationalisation,”
subsidies, assistance to industries (as well
as obstruction of industries) and all the
paraphernalia of Man-power, the W.O.L,
D.I.P. and what-have-you figure among
the balance. This “administrative” vote
has grown considerably bigger during
1943-44 owing to the subsidies called for
under the prices ceiling, and on the figures
for the nine months to March 31 it would
seem that actual munitions and services
costs are well below those for the pre-
ceding corresponding period. It does not
follow that the services are costing any
less. It means rather that capital outlay
on munitions plants, etc., has fallen off
in rate, and that more of our spending is
in respect of actual aimed-at production.
At this late stage of the financial year,
however, it seems that the Budget esti-
mate of a war expenditure of £570 mil-
lion for 1943-44 is not likely to be ex-
ceeded by very much, if at all. Should
expenditure keep within estimates it will
be the first occasion since the war came
to the Pacific that such a thing has hap-
pened.
* * * ♦
Gordon Edgell and Sons, Ltd., which
established itself in the Bathurst (N.S.W.)
district long before the war, has been
getting a spread on in its vegetable-can-
ning activities since the conflict with
Japan. The Bathurst cannery has been
extended, a dehydration plant has been
set up, and both canning and dehydration
are carried on at a new large factory at
Cowra. The whole output is now being
acquired by Food Control. Recently an
issue of 100,000 £1 ords. put on the
market at par was oversubscribed by
£20,000. Prior to the new issue paid
capital was £120,000 in 60,000 ords. and
60,000 p.c. cum. prefs. Net profits
in 1940-41 were £31,632, in 1941-42
£18,586 and in 1942-43 £18,380. Corre-
sponding ord. divs. have been 15 p.c.,
10 p.c. and 8* p.c. Decline in profits
and divs. has been due to heavy taxation
and the cessation of trading with the
public.
* * * *
Up to November 30, 1943, the Federal
Government had spent £368,939 on
mining for wolfram and copper in Central
Australia and had received an income
from these projects of £29,127, leaving a
staggering deficit. The value of stock
on hand could not be obtained owing to
absence of satisfactory records. Archie
Cameron recently stated that after white
wolfram miners had been shifted volun-
tarily from the wolfram to the mica fields,
about 500 Chinese laborers evacuated
from Nauru had been put to work on the
wolfram fields. Production fell by about
83 p.c. The Chinese were later removed,
and when the white miners returned they
found that two out of the three batteries
were unserviceable, and the third would
not produce concentrates 55 p.c. pure.
Mr. Makin, in reply, said that from the
time the Chinese arrived in Centralia
there had been trouble with them, and
“the Government’s efforts to increase
production were frustrated.”' The fields
were virtually worked out. Tributors
who had gone back to the field after the
Government had abandoned it were also
now leaving. The British Government
had undertaken to make good any losses
of this type. The Auditor-General does
not confirm this part of the statement,
but says of the Government’s mining
ventures generally—including a sum of
£67*437 spent by the Allied Works
Council mining for mica—that “mar-
ginal and speculative propositions were
opened up with a view to securing pro-
duction, and mining risks were accepted
which would not have been taken nor-
mally. It seems inevitable that a heavy
loss will be incurred in these ventures.”
* * » »
During 1942-43 the maintenance of gold-
mines withdrawn from production cost
the Commonwealth Government £100,889.


RUPTURE
NO PADS—NO SPRINGS
The latest invention of Dr.
L. Barrere is the result of 40
years’ practice and improve-
ments. Stupendous success
of new method of control.
The NEO-BARRERE acts
like the hand when placed
fiat upon the orifice. You
will at once without
effort and in all move-
ments hold the intes-
tine in its cavity-
Write To-day for
LIKE THE Hflllll FREE LITERATURE.
RCTS
BARRERE DISTRIBUTION CO.
o>ept. 2T). 243 ELIZABETH ST., SYDNEY.
đ
WHAT/m/
SAD for the Country's finances
GOOD for ihe Tyre*
\
Of*.
CP
ofS
Wifi?
ft
P*
ffi
W-
CP
P
P/e/Ve CAREFULLY-
HELP AUSTRAL /
\
SUBSCRIBE
TO THE
VICTORY
LOAN
OLYMPIC
RUBBER
&
INSULATED
CABLES!
fflloxhui&on, rr/
“Olympic
TYRE & RUBBER CO. LTD.
FOUNDERS OF THE RUBBER INSULATED GABLE INDUSTRY IN AUSTRALIA
Form a Group! Join a Group! Buy War Savings Certificates.
ki
i
M
ts
th
w i
ch
V
2
tow
in
A
m
l
K
g
il
Ar:
If your wartime manufacturing pro-
gramme calls for the use of any type
of Steel Sheets, ARMCO can supply
your wants. Whether in Stainless
Steel, in sheets for all types of Elec-
trical Work, Deep-drawing Sheet
Steel for all types of pressings. Bright
Steel Strips, or Black Sheets, you'll
find all your needs well catered for
by Armco. Just 'phone your nearest
Armco office, for full information and
specifications.
STAINLESS STEEL
@
ELECTRICAL STEEL
®
DEEP-DRAWING STEEL
FOR ALL TYPES OF PRESSINGS
BRIGHT STEEL STRIP
o
BLACK SHEETS
d
(AUSTRALIA) PTY. LIMITED
SYDNEY , . . . MELBOURNE
BRISBANE . . . . ADELAIDE
While the present Commonwealth
Government appears to have unlimited
but obscure ambitions in the matter of
taking over the control of private enter-
prise after the war, even to the extent
of setting up in business itself in con-
verted munition factories, it is pertinent
to recall that Australian Labor Govern-
ments have not been successful in the past
in supplying even that liaison between
Government and industry which is so
necessary to the full utilisation of man-
power and economic resources. Taxa-
tion and Customs anomalies that are
obstacles to manufacturing industries
have never been readily straightened out,
even though such matters may have been
absolutely in the power of the Govern-
ment to adjust. Research of a scientific
or financial nature that would be too
costly for one private producer might
well be made a charge on the public
purse in the interests of a whole indus-
try, and, though such an attitude has
often been taken in the case of work
done by the C.S. and 1.R., there are
still far too any limitations. In our trade
with Malaya, the N.E.1., China and India
prior to the present war there was a con-
spicuous absence of a live centralised
Government office in any of those areas
to investigate markets, study financial
problems and strive towards attaining
a standard of Australian exports favor-
able to the native and other population.
Australian trade with “the East” pre-
war was willy-nilly, and the result was
that the general reception Australian
goods received was a bad one. Clearly a
case for benevolent Government inter-
vention and supervision, even though it
meant that the Government might have
to look for its economic ambassadors in
a direction many degrees removed from
that of the traditional civil servant. There
have been other trade matters where
Government aid has been necessary to
smooth the path of manufacturers as a
whole, even if it meant controlling the
quality of goods being made. But in the
past Australian Governments have been
far below reasonable expectations in mak-
ing their Administrations a help rather
than a hindrance in matters of trade —
and upon trade, of course, employment
depends. The present Government appar-
ently intends to go into a gallop in the
control of industry, even though it has
failed to crawl successfully in the
past. It recalls a story told of the
younger Pitt, whose private finances were
usually in a regrettable condition. When
he found he could not pay for repairs
made to his carriage, he gave his coach-
builder an order for a brand-new one
in order to appease that gentleman.
* * * *
McGirr, N. S. Wales Minister for
Public Works and Housing, says that
many millions of pounds will be spent on
public works in all parts of Australia as
soon as the war is over. A National
Works Council, which had already been
set up, would spend in the first year after
the war more than twice as much as had
been spent on public works in 1938. It
would be interesting to know what Mr.
McGirr and the National Works Council
have in mind when they talk of these
“works.”* Very little Government spend-
ing for spending’s sake should be neces-
sary when peace comes. There will be
any amount of private spending to be
catered for, particularly in the way of
housing, and only such Government
outlay as is complementary to home-
building and other private enterprise
should be necessary—that is, apart from
attention to depreciated or inadequate
essential services such as roads, railway
tracks and rolling stock. Mere Minis-
terial and bureaucratic ambition and
paternalism should never be allowed to
control the flow of post-war spending,
* * * *
In 1942-43 the Commonwealth Depart-
ment of Labor and National Service cost
taxpayers £1,231,117, compared with
£316,788 in the preceding financial year.
Administrative salaries and general
expenses absorbed £246,028, excluding
the “Man-power Directorate,” which cost
£761,171, Included in that figure is
the “maintenance of civilian register,
£30,133,” and “Australian Women’s Land
Army, £51,755.” Like the Division of
Import Procurement, the Man-power
Directorate has become a prominent fea-
ture of the Australian war-time land-
scape, and each is costing plenty in money
and man-power. In the visions of Drs.
Coombs and Ross these war-time crea-
tions have a permanent place in the peace.
* * * *
The wheat harvest in Turkey last
season was estimated at 147 million
bushels, and closely approached that of
Australia. The Turkish harvest was re-
ported to be “35 p.c. greater than the out-
put of the previous year and 14 p.c. more
than the apparent domestic require-
ments.” While Australia’s wheat pro-
duction and exports have fallen as a
result of the war, other countries have
had to look after themselves. War always
brings great changes. Some may not be
permanent, but it is obviously a time for
Australians to be keeping in touch with
realities and not toying with “new orders.”
Australia is a young country, tough and
understanding toughness, and we would
have had a far better war effort if our
Government had been blunt and forth-
right all the way through. But it plays
with politics, deals in evasions, and
periodically goes underground to confer
with the “movement.” It is no more
representative of Australia than Army
Minister Forde is a typical Digger.
♦ # m *
At the end of February the Treasury-
bill debt of the Commonwealth had risen
to £403 million, up £144 million since
June 30, 1943. It is an indication
of the failure of the people- to
support public loans and of the Govern-
ment to control expenditure. For a long
time taxation was too low. Now the
average rate is very high.


THE SERCIVE MAN
Australians in Bogadjim.
“Ek Dum”: In spite of there being
still 40,000 Japanese in New Britain and
120.000 in the New Guinea-Solomons
area, according to estimates, defences
there seem to have caved in almost com-
pletely.
Dropping hundreds of tons of bombs
every day on bases from Rabaul to
Kavieng and to Hollandia, well across the
Dutch border of mainland New Guinea,
Allied bombers meet little resistance.
Since March 6, when Talasea, on the
north coast of New Britain, was occu-
pied by U.S. Marines, patrols have gone
out to the Cape Hoskins area and entered
the once-substantial Japanese base of
Gasmata on the south without encoun-
tering opposition. Nor was there opposi-
tion when Australian forces entered
Bogadjim, 18 miles from Madang, as they
did on April 13. The seas, as well as the
air, appear to be under Allied control,
along with extensive and important foot-
holds.
If the estimates of Japanese present
numbers are anywhere near correct, the
New Guinea campaign stands out from
all others recorded in history. Since and
including the Battle of the Bismarck
Sea, the enemy in New Guinea alone
appears to have lost over 50,000 dead
in land and sea battles, apart from 38,000
previously and his losses in the Solomons
and the Coral Sea. Since the beginning
of September last dead counted or
reckoned up after various operations
amount to over 30,000, while combined
Allied deaths in battle or from battle
have not since September totalled the
equivalent of a brigade in land fight-
ing. The bulk of our losses were in the
Finschhafen campaign. Nowhere, save
at Finschhafen, did the enemy in that
period make a stand which resulted in
anything but stiff small actions.
The results and the present .position
are more remarkable because at Buna-
Gona Japanese forces took life for life
at least, killed more than 5000 Austra-
lians and Americans in a few weeks and
wounded as many more. At Guadal-
canal and Munda and Finschhafen and
Salamaua, the Jap fought like a tiger.
Moreover, if there have been and are
as many Japanese in the South-west
Pacific area as is now believed, the
enemy’s own procedure has been amaz-
ing. His forces had little artillery. They
had little motor transport and no
mechanical building plant. They at-
tempted scarcely any road-building, and
little fortification worthy of the name has
yet been encountered. They did not pro-
vide the air cover usually associated with
such operations, nor the food and medical
supplies.
They must, in fact, have been not much
better than an Asiatic horde ; otherwise
they would have overrun the compara-
tively small forces used in the various
Allied landings and marches.
And, though the shipping reported at
various times has been fairly large, none
reported or destroyed was in keeping
with the presence of a modern force of
250.000 men operating 3000 miles from
their main homes bases. Yet if the esti-
mates are accurate, 250,000 men, outside
the Jap Navy, certainly have been sent to
the Solomon and N.G. area.
With the continued bombing of the
New Guinea bases have gone repeated
attacks on Truk, Ponape and other points
held by the enemy, who once or twice
attempted small reprisals which ended
only in his discomfiture and loss.
Advancing Allied Bases
Colonel Knox hinted during the week
that invasion of Truk may be imminent.
A further naval advance along the
waistline of the central Pacific is inevit-
able. The drive towards the China coast
cannot be made in one sweep, even
though the enemy were to evacuate every-
thing east of the Philippines.
In a naval operation, as the reconquest
of the South Pacific is, all movements are
governed by the range of capital ships.
This can be safely reckoned at not more
than 2500 miles limit from some main
base.
As each step forward is taken, the next
must be prepared for by the establish-
ment of a base which will keep the outer
fringes of the next operation area well
within that limit. .
This takes time —plenty of time, since
all materials to equip each new base
with dockage and stores and machinery
must be carried thousands of miles and
the work calls for extensive survey opera-
tions and great engineering staffs.
In the North Pacific an almost non-
stop attack on the Kuriles, to the north-
east of Japan, has been maintained for
several days by U.S. aircraft operating
from Aleutian bases.
The Seventh Marches.
“Ek Dum”: Sydney had the honor of
witnessing a Seventh A.I.F. Division
march, one of several, on the morn-
ing of April 14. The column of 2000
men was led by Brigadier K. W. Eather,
and Lord Wakehurst took the salute at
the Town Hall with the division’s G.0.C.,
Major-General George Vasey.
Unfortunately it was bitterly cold, rain
poured down and the streets were sodden.
However, cheering people were out in
force.
Officers and men were veterans and
looked it. Whole sections, sometimes
whole companies, showed marks of what
malaria and privation and battle had done
to them. There were men among them
who seemed to find it a struggle to keep
their heads up against the tropical illness
which had been brought out by the cold
inclemency of the weather. But as units
they marched proudly and gave Sydney
a splendid spectacle.
One thing, however, is clear. The
Seventh, like the other two pioneer divi-
sions, has done more than its share in the
war, and its veterans not only deserve
a long rest but need it.
It will be a crying scandal if the be-
ribboned veterans who have fought all
the way through the Middle East and
New Guinea are pushed into further
tropical, compaigning while fresh un-
blooded units which need battle training
to ripen them remain at home or on
garrison duty in safe areas.
Second Phase in Burma.
“Ek Dum”: Not much information
about the campaign in Burma came
through last week, but it was clear that
the border battle was reaching a crisis.
The first phase is over. It consisted in
the long fighting withdrawals of the fight-
ing divisions disposed along the- routes
and points of vantage into Burma north-
east and south-east of Imphal. The
second was in being, the driving back of
the enemy from main bases.
On a front of 200 miles it takes'a lot
of troops to cover approaches even very
thinly, and these divisions must have been
fairly widely dispersed. Cohesive with-
drawal, though it must have been pre-
pared for, since nobody would have con-
ceived the fighting of a decisive action in
the country over which they watched, was
a task calling for great skill in the face
of extensive enemy infiltrations.
The troops which formed the screen in
front of the Imphal and Kohima regions
were mainly the best types of Indian hill-
men. There were mentioned Gurkhas
in the south along the Tiddim road, and
Dogras and Jats in the north, protecting
Kohima, The Dogras are steady Punjabi
hillmen with a grand record in Mespot
and Flanders in the last war ; the Jats
are stubborn Delhi and Rohtak farmers,
quiet, peaceful, simple men in private
life, who make the best kind of fighters.
It was they who held out against Lord
Lake at Bharatpur in 1805. All these,
of course, will be brigaded with their
brother-Scots and will have their pipers'
along for occasions.
The Seventeenth Indian Division appar-
ently completed its withdrawal during the
middle days of last week, breaking the
clutch of enemy hands on the Tiddim
road and concentrating with the main
force into the Imphal perimeter.
Admiral Mountbatten congratulated
them on one of the “best battles of the
campaign.” It had cost the Japanese
dearly in its many gusty encounters. In
one of the swift and furious assaults
in the Palel Tammu sector, the enemy
lost 1000 men. On the north the Dogras
in four days’ fighting wiped out 350 ;
in one skirmish on the Ukhrul road, 80
out of 100. The attacks on Kohima were
beaten off.
Terrain and Climate
The enemy had now arrived at a stage
in his infiltrations where they were less
easy and where, unless he achieved con-
centration and was prepared for major
actions, he was in for a hot time. The
country which he has reached is rela-
tively open, though very hilly, and is
different from the rain forest belt of the
Chindwin area, through which he has
to push his way to reach the Imphal plain.
He has had, so far, more than 4000 men
wiped out, and this is some criterion of
the intensity of defence provided by the
Indian screen troops.
The advantages are turning against the
enemy. The main factor, communica-
tions, is all in the Allies’ favor. The
Japs’ line to the rear is across the rugged
border hills and mountains, mainly on
roads which are at best cart tracks. Their
service communications in the rear are
based on the Chindwin River, a broad
stream, but highly vulnerable, which feeds
out of the Irrawaddy. Beaufighters and
other types of strafing aircraft range up
and down it irt the daylight hours, mak-
ing traffic difficult. Even on roads which
can carry adequate military traffic the
enemy has so far shown no sign of having
large-scale motorised transport.
The British-Indian forces, on the other
hand, have as communication lines:
(a) The broad Brahmaputra River tra-
versing a relatively dry belt; ( b ) a fine
motor road via Kohima into the Imphal
plain, and another road on the south of the
plain via Silchar; (c) the Assam railway, into
which traffic is fed at a convenient and
adjacent depot to the rear of Imphal at
Lumding, from two routes; and (d) air-
craft transport so large as to be able to
" deposit 5000 or so men fully equipped with
great suddenness at a spot far in the enemy
rear—as was done with General Wingate’s
force early in March in the Katha region.
When the rains come in full blast, too,
they will favor the British-Indians,
because, though the falls are very heavy
in parts of the hills, there are dry routes
in their communication areas —in the
neighborhood of Shillong, the Assam
capital, for instance. But a few miles
away, at Cherrapungi, annual rainfall is
500 inches.
Furthermore, while Japanese arms and
equipment have to be carried something
like 800 miles by river and rail from the
nearest seaport, Rangoon, the Pritish-
Indians have an almost 50 per cent, ad -
vantage in distances. And while the
Chindwin swings in close to the Manipur
border, and can be reached in a few
minutes by attacking aircraft from
Imphal, as well as on the long stretches
of the Irrawaddy in the southern reaches,
the Indian routes swing well away from
Japanese airfields.
British Air-power
Air cover, too, is in favor of the Allies,
and the position in Burma seems to be
very similar to that in the South-west
Pacific v
Air Marshal Sir Philip Joubert, Deputy
C.O.S. of the South-east Asia Command,
said last week that Japanese air-power
had been largely destroyed, forcing the
enemy to use nearly double the number
of ground troops he needed last autumn
for the same kind of operation. There
was no strategic importance in the cut-
ting of the Manipur road by the enemy,
though it was “a great nuisance.”
And the Japs dug in like rats in the
undergrowth and had to be laboriously
dug out again.
The air marshal confirmed the impres-
sion, here suggested from the first, that
the Japanese drive for Imphal was de-
fensive rather than offensive, and was
aimed at the elimination of an imme-
diate threat to Burma by the Allies rather
than at a major campaign against Assam.
He said the Allies were holding the plain
strongly with guns and tanks opposed to
“anything the Japanese could carry on
their backs through forest paths.” In
the Mogaung Valley Chinese troops con-
tinued to drive towards the heart of N.
Burma.
On the Arakan front fighting flared
up for its last burst before the monsoon.
On August 12 the Japanese launched a
strong attack south of Buthidaung, but
it was warded off by Indians, while ad-
vancing British-Indian troops on both
sides of the Mayu range fought their way
forward. It was afterwards announced
that 700 enemy dead had been counted,
and that the enemy loss was at least 1200.
Allied casualties were comparatively light.
Generally speaking, the phrase of Air
Marshal Joubert seems to fit the Allied
activities in India along the Burmese
frontier: “If not ambitious, solid.”
“Imphal Plain Clear”
On April 16 the New Delhi Command
reported that the position on the Mani-
pur front had improved considerably.
Quietly and efficiently the Imphal plain
had been cleared of the enemy, and as he
fell back he was being wiped out along
the border.
In the north-eastern sector, where the
enemy had been pushed eastwards from
Kohima, he was thrown off some strong
hill positions by Dogra units and other
Indian troops. Generally speaking, the
position was well under control and
turning in favor of the British-Indians,
Thus far the enemy had failed in his
main objectives.
It was announced that Admiral Mount-
batten had moved his H.Q. from New
Delhi to Kandy in Ceylon, about 70 miles
from Colombo, and a central base for
both Colombo and Trincomalee.
The move may be seasonal, since Delhi
becomes a sea of rain about the beginning
of June ; or it may mark the beginning of
the main and naval phase of the war. It
has here been pointed out that Ceylon
is the natural pivot of the South-east
Asian war, equidistant from everywhere
—Tokyo, Sydney, London —and a con-
centric point of all sea routes. It is also
the central point from which to attack
every sea objective accessible from India
—-Colombo, 1234 miles to Rangoon, 1577
miles to Singapore—and it has two
fine naval bases at Trincomalee and
Colombo.
In previous historic invasions of Burma
the traditional approach has been through
three points—in the Assam region, in
Arakan and through Rangoon.
The first two fronts are in operation,
but must be hampered by the weather in
a few weeks’ time. But the Allies are
still busily pushing their way through the
north towards the dry centre, and a third
air-borne landing in the rear of the
Japanese push on the Manipur border
was reported at the week-end this
time a sensational one a few mi!es
on the flank of the supply routes
of the force invading Manipur, and
only 60 miles north-west of Man-
dalay, in the very heart of the Burmese
central communication area. The land-
ing also is at the northern apex of the
dry central belt in which annual rainfall
in under 40 inches.
Sea operations would not be so much
hampered by the monsoon as those on
land, especially when directed towards
the south-east or east from Ceylon.
Non-stop Blitz in Europe.
“Ek D.”; In the middle of last
week mysterious broadcasts purport-
ing to come from German short-
wave stations which could not be
identified asserted that Canadians were
landing in France south of Calais. It
seemed a clumsy sort of rumor destined
to sort out active pro-Ally elements in
northern France. The last of it was
heard on April 13.
Meanwhile, European skies were full
of aircraft bent on those missions which
have been referred to by Allied com-
manders more than once, not as prepara-
tion for the invasion of occupied Europe,
but as part of it.
For six days up to the week-end there
were never fewer than 1000 machines
out over Europe. In three days 9000
were sent over. Between April 8 and 13
17,000 sorties were made and 23,000 tons
of bombs dropped.
In all, 63 centres, spread over 790,000
square miles of country, were mentioned
as being attacked by forces based in
Britain and Mediterranean areas. The
British and American air commands were
operating on every front, including the
whole of the main rearward bottlenecks
of the German Army communications on
the Russian front.
At the week-end the attacks showed
signs of increasing rather than diminish-
ing. They had risen till nearly 150
machines an hour were crossing the
Channel day and night. And defence
was reaching its peak. British-based air-
craft in 24 hours shot down 76 enemy
machines, and aircraft from Italy claimed
56 ; the loss of 52 bombers and eight
fighters was admitted. R.A.F. losses dur-
ing the week were uncertain owing to
the overlapping of communiques, but
they approached 100. American esti-
mates placed the total number of enemy
machines destroyed between April 8 and
April 15 at 611.
The Germans showed great concern at
the bombing, and towards the middle of
the week their propagandists began to
pay more attention to it than to the Rus-
sian front.
On April 12 it was said over Berlin
Radio that the war in the air had reached
a peak during the first 100 days of the
year, and it was claimed that during that
period British and American air forces
had lost 3315 machines, four-fifths of
which were four-engined bombers, with
22,600 flying personnel. A later claim
was made that in the first fortnight of
April 664 American aircraft, including
554 four-engined bombers, had been de-
stroyed. The Americans ' admitted the
loss of under 300 bombers, including 205
four-engined machines, plus 73 fighters
after April 8. '
Quiet in Italy.
“Ek Dum”: There was little land fight-
ing in Italy in the past eight days.
The official Maoriland story of the tak-
ing of Castle Hill at Cassino by N.Z.
troops proves the kind of enemy who has
to be faced and also disposes of some


Personal and Missing Friends.
Would any relative of WILLIAM ALEXANDER, who
is believed to have died at Bundaberg (Q.) about 40
years ago, please communicate with the DISTRICT
PUBLIC TRUSTEE, Hastings, New Zealand?
Divorce Notice.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW SOUTH
WALES—In Divorce.
TO ERIC RAYMOND ASHE.—TAKE NOTICE that
IRENE MAY ASHE has filed a Petition for Divorce
No. 997 of 1944 on the ground of your desertion
for three years and upwards If you wish to defend
the suit you should enter an appearance at the
Divorce Office Supreme Court King Street Sydney
on or before the First day of June One thousand
nine hundred and forty-four and obtain a copy of
the petition filed herein from GEOFFREY DYSON
BONAMY Solicitor 56 Hunter Street Sydney.—(n.s.)
C. K. BODY, Registrar in Divorce.
Public Notice.
I, PAUL A. FROHLICH, Stateless, formerly of Aus-
trian nationality, born at Vienna, Austria, and resi-
dent six montlis in the U.K. and four years and
six months in Australia, now residing at 18 Cara-
bella Street, Kirribilli, N.S.W., intend to apply
for naturalisation under the Nationality Act 1620-
1936.
I, VINCENZO OUSUMANO, of Italian nationality,
born at Stromboli, Sicily, and resident seven years
in Australia, now residing at Turner Street. Herne
Bay, Peakhurst, N.S.W., intend to apply for naturali-
sation under the Nationality Act 1920-1936.
I, CARL LEOPOLD ELSNER, of German nationality,
born at Brunswick, Germany, and resident 32 years
in Australia, now residing at 133 Albion Street,
Surry Hills, N.S.W., intend to apply for naturali-
sation under the Nationality Act 1920-1936.
I, CLAUDIO RODIGHIERO, of Italian nationality,
born at Fontanelle, Vicenza, Italy, and resident six
years in Australia, now residing at 33 Hillcrest
Street, Punchbowl, N.S.W., intend to apply for
naturalisation under the Nationality Act 1920-1936.
CD
am
false impressions about the effectiveness
and accuracy of bombing.
Castle Hill sticks up over Cassino,
clearly marked. The official Maori-
land correspondent reports that “the
castle itself was knocked about by
heavy shellfire before the attack, but the
bombing left no marks on the building
or the ridge.”
The positions held by the Allies are
still dominated from the heights by the
enemy.
The Maorilanders and others in for-
ward positions have a hard time of it
clearing out their wounded and bringing
stores up to the front trenches at night;
for any undue noise such as the starting
of an engine brings down a withering
blast of artillery and heavy machine-gun
fire from above.
The securing of water from the river is
a fighting matter, since it is almost even
betting that any water party will encoun-
ter a section of Germans armed to the
teeth and bent on the same errand.
The quietness at Anzio is ominous.
The beachhead is being packed with guns,
men and stores. Successful Allied raids
on enemy positions were carried out at
the week-end.
Odessa, the Crimea, Skala.
“Ek Dum”: Odessa, which had been
in Axis —chiefly Rumanian —hands since
October, 1941, was yielded to the Red
Army without a battle worth the name.
The Germans claimed that they had
evacuated all men, stores and munitions
and equipment of value. All buildings,
machinery, equipment and armament
which could not be moved, along with
wharfage and water and power supply,
they said, was wrecked so as to be of no
further military use.
There was some fierce but not
prolonged fighting with rearguards,
especially in the wharf area, when the
Russians entered the city from the east
on the evening of April 9, but none
commensurate with the defensive possi-
bilities of a city which is built on a hive
of catacombs.
The German casualties reported were
small by Russian-war yardsticks—“likely
to be 20,000, not counting those lost at
sea.”
After the capture of Odessa the Rus-
sians tried to cut off the enemy retreat
across the Dniester. The German High
Command claimed that south and south-
west of the city its troops had made an
orderly withdrawal, out of contact with
the Russians.
At their rear was the Dniester, about
25 miles from the city. It is an awkward
obstacle for a hotly pursued army to
cross. For 30 miles from the sea the
river mouth is a lake several miles wide,
and from then onward for 40 miles to
where the railway crosses from Tyraspol
to Bender, on the Rumanian side, it is a
series of contorted bends. But here
again the enemy escaped disaster.
' He held off Third Ukrainian Army
forces moving down from the north-west
and north-east in the Kishinev sector.
These Red Army formations, which
could have cut off the Odessa garrison
had they forced their way to the mouth
in time, were taking Grigoriopol, 30 miles
up the river, when the Russians from
Odessa at night entered Tyraspol far to
the south, meeting a resistance which did
not last till daylight.
The face of events in the Crimea
changed suddenly.
The Germans were fond of asserting
that since November the Russians had
tried 17 times to break into the penin-
sula across the Kerch Strait or the Pere-
kop Isthmus, which is a narrow neck of
steppe land four miles wide, with shallow
waters abutting on the eastern side.
Certainly the Crimea would haye been
invaluable to the Russians during the
winter. Its mild climate was needed for
their wounded and sick ; its food resources
would have been a distinct help. It was
not surmised that its garrisons were large
—Moscow’s estimates varied from eight
to 11 divisions, with a small quantity of
armor. But the Kerch positions in par-
ticular were strong and hard to assail
from the sea, and the Russians have
little naval power in the Black Sea.
Crimean Gates Cave In
Nevertheless, a few days before. Odessa
fell it was found possible to enter the
Crimea by both gates—at the Perekop
end and at Kerch. General Tobulkhin’s
Fourth Ukrainian Front troops broke
down the defences along the north-
eastern side of the isthmus along the
shores of the Sivash Sea, a shallow lake
bounded on one side by Perekop and
cut off from the Azov Sea on the other
side by the narrow Tongue of Arabat.
In two days’ fighting they advanced 15
miles and took the town of Armyansk.
The official communique claimed 5500
Germans killed and 1000 taken prisoner,
with 44 tanks and 21 aircraft destroyed.
From then onwards the advances of
both General Yeremenko, at the Kerch
end, and General Tobulkhin, at the Pere-
kop end, were so fast that Moscow corre-
spondents were hard put to it for des-
perate battles. They wrote of “brilliant by-
passing tactics” and “manoeuvres marked
by genius,” but the facts seemed to be
that there were not many Germans in
the north, north-west and east to by-pass,
and manoeuvring seemed to consist in a
straight race to catch up with the enemy.
General Tobulkhin’s force in two days
advanced 40 miles a day.
The Crimea is built in two levels. In
the north, from end to end, it is nearly
all low country, rising only slightly from
the steppe. The mountains have fallen
to its south side like the sediment in a
decanter.
The Yaila Range runs along the south
coast, about 100 miles from Theodosia,
on the east, to the sea at Sevastopol, in
the west. The depth of the range is any-
thing up to 35 miles at its centre.
By the week-end all the peninsula was in
the hands of the Russians save a fraction
of the south-west. They had seized Sim-
feropol, the capital, 36 miles from Sevas-
topol, and they had taken the ports of
Theodosia, on the east of the south coast,
Eupatoria, on the west, the second
Crimean port, and Yalta, 35 miles east
of Sevastopol, the outskirts of which had
been reached.
In the south it was reported officially
that the Germans had left 3000 dead
on the battlefields and that 2000 prisoners
had been taken. Total prisoners to April
15 were estimated at 35,000. With the
evacuation of Theodosia and Eupatoria,
almost without defence, it was clear that
the Crimea had already been almost
stripped of men and that the bulk of the
enemy had made a getaway, leaving only
rearguards and destructive units.
The beginning of the Crimean evacua-
tion, long before the Russians approached
Odessa —though this was not known to
the outside world —must have served
notice on the Russian armies that the big
city would not be defended to any extent.
The evacuation also suggested that the
enemy had no intention of attempting
to hold the line of the lower Dniester,
and that he would probably give up
Kishinev and retire to the lower Sereth
and the Pruth, throwing his defence lines
across the Galatz Gap from the Car-
pathians to the sea east of the Danube
Delta.
Port and Peninsula
The events of the Crimea were not in
themselves a consequence of the loss of
Odessa as a port.
Odessa was important to the Crimea,
not as a supply base, but as a centre from
which land-based cover could be given
to convoys while it was in German hands.
And it and all the coasts on each side
of it provided areas in which the Rus-
sians might lay down air bases from
which the sea routes might be attacked.
The actual sea bases serving the Crimea
have been for some time past Sulina, at
the Black Sea mouth, the same distance
from Eupatoria (164 miles) as Sevastopol
from Odessa ; Constanza, one of the most
up-to-date ports in the Black Sea area —
to get packages urgently from overland
to Istanbul before the war London firms
always had them marked “via Constanza”
—2lO miles from Sevastopol; Varna, 254
miles from Sevastopol; and Burgas, about
280 miles from Sevastopol. Odessa,
Nikolaev and Kherson were wholly occu-
pied with the freight needs of the
Urkrainian battlefront.
With the transfer of communication
lines to the south of the Rumanian
ranges and the abandonment of some of
the direct railways north of the Car-
pathians, the Germans will need all the
ports and shipping serving the Crimea to
serve their Galatz-Carpathian front.
Moscow correspondents were convinced
that the Russian fleet could “annihilate”
them if they tried to exape from the
Crimea. Moscow itself reported the
sinking of five transports aggregating
27,000 tons on April 13.
But when war broke out in 1941 the
Russian Navy had not more than seven
light cruisers in all waters, mostly in the
Baltic and Murmansk, and about 30 small
gunboats, some of them dating back to the
Russo-Jap War. There was one old
battleship, said to be modernised, in the
Black Sea. The voyage from the Crimea
can be made largely at night, and for the
rest of the period under fighter cover
from the Rumanian mainland. It is
comparable with the voyage from Ger-
many out of the North Sea, which the
Allies find it difficult enough to control
with all their immense sea and air power.
Towards the week-end the natural
corollary operations to the retreat from
Odessa and the Crimea were already in
being. The fighting in the Sereth sector
had moved to the outskirts of Jassy, and
it seemed certain that the Germans were
holding this town and Kishinev only
until the retreating troops from Odessa
and the Dniester were safe.
On the Polish Front
Meanwhile, on the Polish section of the
front, where Marshal Zukhov’s armies
were operating, strange events were
happening.
According to Moscow correspondents,
who have already established a tradi-
tion that nothing but overwhelming vic-
tory must be reported from Russia,
the Germans in this area suffered a
disaster hard to parallel even in
the present war. They had supposedly
reeled back before the Red Army and
had lost 183,000 in killed alone and prob-
ably 600,000 total casualties in three
weeks. Not much when you say it in
Moscow-correspondent lingo, but it
meant that a complete full-strength Ger-
man division was blotted out by death
alone every 30 hours for three weeks on
end and two divisions wounded or taken
prisoner every 30 hours. This apart from
the losses on General Koniev’s front —
118.000 dead, 27,000 prisoners—and on
six other army-group fronts. Press reports
gave the impression that the Germans in
the Jablonica Pass approaches and else-
where had been driven over the moun-
tains and that the Russians were pouring
through the Carpathian-Beskiden Ranges
into the hearts of Rumania and Czecho-
slovakia.
Apart from the 183,000 killed and
25.000 prisoners taken in Marshal Zuk-
hov’s three weeks of advance, another
five or six divisions were said to have
been surrounded and wiped out north-
west of Odessa. Round Skala another 15
divisions, including seven tank divisions,
were supposed to be trapped and in pro-
cess of annihilation.
At Skala
It was cabled from London on April
7:
With the capture of Skala and two other
townships to the south, the Red Army has
practically liquidated the Skala pocket,
north-east of Cernauti (Cernowitz), where
the remnants of 15 divisions retreating from
Vinnitsa were surrounded last week. Des-
perate German attempts to break through
and rescue the isolated divisions were
beaten back with heavy casualties. At one
town south of the pocket, 4650 Germans
were killed and 1250 taken prisoner in
counter-attacks which lasted all day.
It was announced that Polish units of
the Red Army had occupied Kowel,
south-west of the Pripet Marshes. Simul-
taneously the Germans announced that
their communications with Kowel had
been reopened. Also that a “blow”
all along the line from there to the Car-
pathians at the Jablonica Pass approach
had pushed the Russians back, “opened”
the gates of Tarnopol wide, “encircled”
Russian units at several points south of
Kowel and recaptured Delatyn, the town
covering the approach to the Jablonica
Pass, besides tightening the German hold
at Kalomea. The enemy also claimed
to have released the units or formations
surrounded at Skala, inflicting heavy
losses on the Russians. But the gates of
Tarnopol couldn’t have been “opened”
for long; anyway, Tarnopol fell to the
Russians.
Moscow admitted that the enemy, “at
the cost of heavy losses in men and mate-
rial,” succeeded in recapturing Buczacz—-
45 miles north-west of Skala, which is on
the Zbruez at the Russian border —and
thereby joining up with the remnants of
the encircled German divisions holding
out in the Skala area.
On April 15 Berlin reported that the
Russians were massing 60 special moun-
tain divisions, trained since June, to
attack the Carpathian passes. The
German High Command communique
asserted that German troops west of
Tarnopol had gained ground, that north-
west of Brody several localities had been
captured and that “the drive south of
Kowel” was “progressing favorably.”
The main fighting in the Carpathian area
is only in its first phase.
Divisional Strength
Correspondents had, as usual, grossly
overestimated the German man-power
trapped, as they did at Kanev (where the
enemy also claimed to have got out of
the pocket) and elsewhere.
It has been a stage convention with all
boo-boo boys that German divisions
when trapped invariably number 15,000
and are at full strength, whether the for-
mation is infantry or armored. It is
very doubtful whether the Germans ever
have used a single division of 15,000 men
in this war. Their largest divisions are
12.000 at full strength, and a very large
proportion consist only of about 8000
men. Their armored divisions, equipped
with from 250 to 480 tanks, run from
3000 to 5000 men.
Normal British infantry divisions are
a bit over 12,000; American the same,
except the Marines’ landing divisions,
whose formations run to 11,000, Japanese
divisions before the war were about
10,000. The present content of Russian
divisions is unknown, but up to the end
of the Finnish war they contained 15,000
to 20,000 —normally about 18,000 men.
The fact that many Russian divisions are
commanded by colonels suggests that
since the war began they have fallen
in with modern practice of reducing man-
power strength in consonance with in-
creased fire-power.
At any rate, the Russians claimed
merely 26,000 Germans killed and 6988
prisoners in the Skala pocket out of
“six [seven in earlier accounts] infantry
divisions,” seven “tank formations” and a
“motorised division.” It was said that only
10.000 men escaped. The Germans de-
clared that most of the surrounded troops
got away. They even claimed that they
were doing some surrounding on their
own account.
Meanwhile, it is clear that the enemy
struck with his reserves to some purpose
along a 150-mile front in an area in which
his forces were supposed to have been re-
duced to a rabble, and in which there
was a Russian force supposedly so over-
whelming that it had been able to kill
over 200,000 Germans and capture an-
other 40,000 inside a month'. In some
sectors the Russian line was pushed back
by the new enemy drive or broken into
for up to 30 miles. Whether this move
was meant to be diversionary while
Odessa and the Crimea were cleared or
as cover for the retreat in the Tarnopol
area still remained to be seen.
In brief;
. Britain had light ,air raids, mostly by recon-
naisance units, last week. British civilian air-
raid casualties during March were 279 killed
and missing and 633 injured.
* * * *
German-controlled Paris Radio declares that
since the fall of France 15,000 French citizens
have been killed and 20,000 injured in air raids;
60 towns have suffered heavy damage and
500,000 homes and public buildings have been
destroyed.
* * * *
Moscow on April 15 announced the death of
Marshal Vatutin,’ who commanded the Ukrain-
ian front in the Kiev sector till a few weeks
ago. He was himself a Ukrainian, and an
artillery officer of distinction. He was with-
drawn from the front a few days before the
opening of the advances on Rovno and
Luck, being succeeded by Marshal Zukhov, for-
merly Chief of the General Staff. Marshal
Vatutin had a considerable part in all the
Russian campaigns from Stalingrad onward and
he will have an honorable place in history as a
soldier who never despaired of his country.


Into Action. Man-power for blades is strictly
limited. Therefore you must take even greater care
of your Gillette “ Standard ” than you did of
the Blue Gillette or the 7 o’clock blades they have
replaced. Do this and they will give you the best
sjiave you can buy. If you find them a little
difficult to get, don’t blame your retailer —remember
the restricted output.
Gillette in battledress
Gillette “Standard” Blades cost 3d. each and fit all
Gillette Razors, old or new type.
Western Electric
HEARING AIDS
The modern Western Electric Hearing
Aid is the culmination of over sixty years
of intensive research, experiment and con-
stant improvement by the great organisa-
tion which pioneered the telephone, radio
and talking pictures. All their unrivalled
knowledge and experience in sound
amplification is compressed into the neat
and compact Western Electric Audi-
phone —and placed at the service of the
hard-of-hearing. The new and exclusive
Tone Discriminator, which is incorpo-
rated in the latest models, eliminates
background noises and enables you to
hear with perfect clarity, in any position
and at much greater distances, without
imposing any strain. A visit to the con-
sulting rooms and a free audiometric test
and demonstration of the Audiphone
will place you under no obligation, but
will open to you a new world of hearing-
enjoyment.
THE AUDIPHONE COMPANY
M.L.C. ™, a. » Co*.
Trevor Henderson, Grice Building, 90-92 Queen Street, BRJSBAJ. and Elizabeth
Place, ADELAIDE. Messrs. Finlay Pty., Ud., 98 J s 7 fcban^^ Q t reet PERTH.
Street, HOBART. Messrs. Samken & Sainken, 633 H.q at c ■
SPORTING NOTIONS
A crowd of 41,000 at Randwick on
Saturday staked £117,672 15s. in tote
tickets, bringing the turnover for the three
days to £440,163 10s. That figure had
not been exceeded even when the autumn
meeting extended over four days.
Mayfowl’s withdrawal robbed the
A.J.C. Plate of some interest. After his
close second to Veiled Threat in the Syd-
ney Cup, Mayfowl was expected to test
Katanga, but it was decided not to risk
him in the going. Katanga still was left
with no easy race. He beat Veiled Threat
by only a neck after the Cup winner
seemed likely to run him down a fur-
long from the post. Veiled Threat trailed
Katanga when Munro moved the latter
to the leaders. Main Topic and Grand
Fils, at the turn, but he was not quite
good enough. Katanga, whose stake win-
nings now are £15,421, still may not be
classed with the great w.f.a. champions
of the last 20 years, but few hardier or
more versatile horses have raced. Though
the rising four-year-olds Mayfowl,
Moorland and Flight will provide severe
opposition, there seems no reason why
Katanga still should not be Sydney’s out-
standing w.f.a. stayer next spring.
Kiaree was helped when Chatham’s
Choice left an opening on the rails, but
he still would have won the Final Handi-
cap had he been forced to race round the
leaders in the straight. Bar tie rode
Kiaree quietly behind Chatham’s Choice
and Jymjon to the straight entrance, and,
though it took him half a furlong to pass
Chatham’s Choice, Kiaree raced right
away in the last bit. Kiaree appeared to
have fined down since his failure in the
Doncaster Handicap, and he was the
better for his reduced bulk. He now will
be kept in training for suburban racing.
He may not be as good as when he won
the Epsom Handicap, but he should win
again soon. Dewar, who started favorite,
had conditions to suit him, but unless a
horse is in form he possesses little chance
in any circumstances. • Dewar made up
ground to run fourth, but only plodded.
With age, he is losing his dash.
Bravo finished three lengths behind Tea
Rose in the Sires’ Produce Stakes, but he
was stated to have missed the start, and
he was always a warm favorite for the
Champagne Stakes. Tea Rose, however,
beat him even more easily, but in turn
she was beaten by Scaur Fel. Third early,
Bravo was the first horse beaten, and
when Tea Rose caught the leader, Strath-
darr, in the straight, she appeared to have
the race won. Scaur Fel, however, pushed
between them close to the post and just
got up. By Felcrag from Ginaton, Scaur
Fel now has won £2857 in stakes for the
380gns. she cost as a yearling. A ten-
dency to misbehave at the barrier has
worried her trainer, S. R. Lamond, but
the filly jumped away well when hurdled
off on Saturday, and in future she prob-
ably will be kept away from other horses
at the start.
Sold as a stallion a year ago for 160gns.,
because he was not expected to stand
another racing preparation, Gundagai
won the Coogee Handicap from Lord
Neith and Kimbell. Kimbell looked a
certain winner when he gained a break
in the straight, but Gundagai caught him
quickly inside the furlong. Gundagai
’ was such a strong tip on Saturday morn-
ing that many bookmakers opened him
favorite. His action was not free before
the race, however, and he started at 5 to
1. Like many bad-legged horses, Gun-
dagai appreciated the soft gomg, a .
under winter conditions he should win
again. Lord Neith shaped better than in
the Biraganbil Handicap on Easter Mon-
day, but he is finding difficulty now m
conceding both weight and start to good-
class milers.
/ ho j der 0 f the Randwick record
3 furlongS; B angster reproduced his
, * alvo i d brilliance in the Rous Han-
dicap. He was not smartest away, but he
quickly was three lengths clear, and held
the advantage to the post. Bangster gave
the Ring another of the good results
which have marked racing this autumn,
and, with betting money more plentiful
than for years, bookmakers must have
won big sums at Randwick. Soho, m
the centre of the field early, finished well
to run second. It was his best perform-
ance this tirtie up and, as he looks well,
he is certain to win a sprint before long,
The favorite, D. 5.0., showed again that
he is hardly up to good Randwick class.
He followed Bangster into the straight,
but tired quickly, and John Halifax beat
him for fourth. John Halifax did not
stretch out early, but he finished solidly,
and at seven furlongs he may be a dif-
ferent horse.
Murray Stream won the Fernhill Han-
dicap by four lengths from the favorite.
Prince Verity, and Corona. Cook was
riding Prince Verity hard two furlongs
from the winning post, but Murray
Stream left him easily, and the way he
ran out the mile in heavy going stamped
him as a promising stayer.* By Midstream
from Hall Mark’s Sister, by Heroic,
Murray Stream cost 450gns. as a yearling,
and prior to Saturday had been placed
only once in five starts. Of the unplaced
youngsters none impressed more than
Fire Chat, a chestnut colt by Talking
from Gold Spark, winner of the Anni-
versary Handicap in 1940. Fire Chat
had shown early speed in two previous
races, but this time he finished well to
run fourth after a slow beginning.
* * * *
Three jockeys were injured and Tran-
quil Star, one of Australia’s best gal-
lopers, broke her jaw in a sensational
smash in the Glenara Handicap at
Moonee Valley on Saturday. Four horses
were involved in the crash, which
occurred less* than two furlongs from
home. Tranquil Star (K. Smith), who
looked to be going well in fifth position,
was first to fall. True Flight (C. Hughes),
Hestia (H. White) and Keplerian (J. Pur-
tell) toppled over her. Hughes and White
were taken to hospital, Smith escaped with
slight injuries, Purtell was unhurt. At
the time of writing it was indefinite
whether Tranquil Star, winner of £19,640
in stakes, would be able to race again.
Millais won his first race since the Oak-
leigh Plate last year when he defeated
Phoines and Burberry in the Glenara
Handicap. A five-year-old gelding by
Portofino from Fission, he has been a
good buy at the 1400gns. paid for him
by L. N. Stuchbery prior to his Oakleigh
success. Starting at 6 to 1, he ran past
Burberry entering the straight, and battled
on gamely to win by a neck. Millais
completed a double for trainer R. J.
Shaw, who had won the first Laluma
Handicap (for two-year-olds) with Glen
Rannock. A colt by Manitoba from
Taurica, Glen Rannock cost 1250gns. as
a yearling, and had been placed only
once before.
David’s Last, favorite at 2 to 1, com-
pleted a winning hat-trick in the Kiata
Handicap. In front early, he shot right
away on the bend, and won easing up
from Orteli and Spanish Legend. A
three-year-old colt by David from Queen
Carnival, David’s Last is proving himself
one of Melbourne’s best sprinters. He
is raced on lease by Rupert Watson from
his breeder, O. R. Falkiner, and it is in-
tended that eventually he’ll take David’s
place at the stud.
« * * *
The unprecedented demand for year-
lings in Melbourne and New Zealand this
year was repeated at the Sydney sales,
where average, aggregate and individual
records were smashed. A total of 327
yearlings brought 168,235gn5., an aver-
age of 514|gns., which was nearly twice
the previous best, 286|gns. in 1943. A
brown filly by Golden Sovereign from
the Metropolitan winner Feminist topped
the sale at 4500gn5., a record for a filly,
but Golden Sovereign’s average, 1632gn5.,
was surpassed by three Mr. Standfast
colts which averaged 1766|gns. Eight
yearlings by Ajax, the first of his progeny
to be offered in Australia, averaged
1481igns. While the prices may have
been higher than was warranted, the
vastly increased prize-money in Sydney
in the last year justified some advance
in the value of young horses.
♦ * * *
In a speech at the annual meeting of
the British Thoroughbred Breeders’ Asso-
ciation Lord Rosebery said that while
no mile and a half course in the world
gave three-year-olds a severer test than
Epsom—anyone who has seen the course
can endorse that —he held that Ascot
came next in that respect in England,
and for that reason most people inter-
ested in .breeding favored the running of
the Derby and Oaks on that track in pref-
erence to Newmarket. Lord Derby said
only 11,004 people saw the Derby at
Newmarket last year, against three times
as many at a boxing match on the same
date. It is anticipated that Ascot will
supplant Newmarket as the Jockey Club’s
racing headquarters.
B. H. Crowley, elected to the A.J.C.
committee, has had long experience as
an owner, and will bring to the committee
both a practical knowledge and an appre-
ciation of the modern needs of racing.
For long there has been a feeling that
A.J.C. committeemen should have more
than an executive interest in racing, and
should set an example by owning more
than an occasional racehorse.
* * * *
In future years E. McMenamin, who
has announced his retirement, may not
be remembered as one of Australia’s great
jockeys. But he has had few superiors
for alertness at the barrier and anticipa-
tion of a start, and most horses appre-
ciated his quiet style. McMenamin had
not ridden with his old dash in recent
weeks, and he is doing the right thing in
retiring before he is a back number. Fail-
ing to recognise the toll of time, many
good jockeys have clung to the saddle
until they have become pitiable objects
to be thrown the crumbs of an occa-
sonal ride on a horse with no chance.
R. E. H. (“Bob”) Hope, of Clare (S.A.),
has retired at 80 from the committee of
S.A, Jockey Club. He has been a hard
worker on it for 35 years; breeder and
owner, too. A crack amateur rider as
a young man, and for some years a met-
ropolitan judge.
* * ♦ *
In New York a body called the Jockey
Club Foundation has been formed for the
purpose of assisting those racing people
who need financial aid because of in-
jury, illness or advanced age. Financial
support will come principally from the
State’s five racing clubs.
• * * *
J. M. Gaver, who has charge of Mrs.
Payne Whitney’s Greentree Stable in
America is an instance of its being un-
necessary to start life in a stable to
become a successful trainer. Before he
became associated with a racing stable
Gaver was a schoolteacher, a bond-
seller and secretary to a bloodstock
agency. It was not long before he
demonstrated that he had struck the
avocation for which he was most suited.
Now he gets a salary of over $lO,OOO
(£A3250) a year and 10 per cent, of the
value of all races won by the horses he
trains.
* ♦ * *
For the thirteenth year in succession
Gordon Richards rides as first jockey
for F. Darling’s Beckhampton stable.
Frank Butters’s stable has second call,
and when available Richards will ride for
J. V, Rank at southern meetings.
Miscellaneous.
Had Jimmy Dundee (12.5) put more
power into his punches against George
Delaney at Leichhardt he would have
stopped the Queenslander. But he was
merciful, and Delaney lasted the 12
rounds, to lose by a mile on points.
Fighting fiercely in every round, though
much the lighter man. Jack Day sought
to overwhelm Max Cameron at the Syd-
ney Stadium. Inevitably when a pug
attacks recklessly he leaves himself wide
open for the opposing party’s punches,
and Cameron is no mean boxer. Snappy
straight lefts had Day’s face bruised and
gory and his profile out of contour before
the tenth round ended. Obviously realis-
ing he was behind on points, Day fought
harder than ever in the eleventh and
twelfth, but he could not catch up, and
Cameron was awarded a popular decision.
FOR ROSEHILL.
(Before acceptances .)
Maiden Handicap: Commando,
1; Domineer, 2 ; Mome, 3.
April Juvenile." Wheatland, 1 ;
Fire Chat, 2; Removal, 3.
April Nursery: Gipsy Lady, 1 ;
Ducal Gem, 2 ; Corona, 3.
Three-year-old Handicap: Craigie,
1; Enthuse, 2; Highgate, 3.
Flying Handicap: Soho, 1 ; Hall
Stand, 2 ; Winnipeg, 3.
Autumn Cup: Mayfowl, 1;
Goose Boy, 2; Shining Night, 3,
Welter Handicap: Chinook, 1 ;
Babillard, 2 ; Hauteur, 3,


Women’s Letters
From Sydney
Two thousand of the men of the
Seventh Division marched through the
city last Friday. The skies treated them
to a deluge and a penetrating cold numbed
the onlookers, if not those alert, swing-
ing figures in the parade. But there was
no lack of warmth in the welcome of
eyes and hands as the men passed by.
These heroes, whose fortitude and dogged
persistence had conquered the Owen Stan-
leys, whose passing along the Kokoda
Trail and the Ramu Valley is a theme
for poets to come to immortalise, have
a glance of extraordinary alertness, but,
true Australians through all their grim
experiences, they have not forgotten how
to smile. At the Town Hall Lord Wake-
hurst took the salute. Near by stood
C.O.C. of the Seventh, Major-General
G. A. Vasey. The march was led by
Brigadier K. W. Father. Major-General
Plant, Army Minister Forde, Brigadier-
General Rilea, of the U.S. forces,
Premier McKell and Mayor Bartley were
in the group at the saluting base.
Proudly army nurses and A.A.M.W.S.
stepped out in the parade. Their trig
uniforms, even as those of the men, must
have been heavy with rain. The nurses
were led by Sister Dorothy Bush,
A.A.N.S., who has served both in the
Middle East and in New Guinea. Lieut.
Dawn Jackson led the A.A.M.W.S. Many
of these, too, had ministered on both war
fronts. The Governor and Lady Wake-
hurst were at the Mayoral morning- tea
party that followed the march,
India, so much in the minds of all just
now, is the scene of Dr. Bainton’s new
opera, “The Pearl Tree.” But it is not
the India of military or political activity
that has caught the imagination of the
director of the Conservatorium, but the
India of Vishnu and Krishna. Here the
gods walk the earth again and the rites
sacred to the Hindu are given melodic
and powerful expression against scenery
designed by Harold Abbott, Dr. Bainton’s
artist son-in-law. The scene where the
pearl-tree grows and bursts into be-
gemmed blooming is said to be one of
great charm.
Producer Hilda Mulligan has spent
hours in the public library poring over
illustrations of the life of Krishna. The
melting blues, the rich reds of Indian
robe and sari have been almost impos-
sible to obtain, so the materials have been
specially dyed. One scene set in the celes-
tial city is dressed in the soft shades of
the moonstone and the opal. The opera
will run for a fortnight, so there is a
double cast. This includes Harold Wil-
liams, Stanley Clarkson and Isolde Hill.
Dr. Bainton will conduct the orchestra
on the opening night. The usual Con.
company of instrumentalists will be rein-
forced by players from the Symphony
Orchestra. Roland Foster’s ability as an
organiser is equal even to this great occa-
sion—the world premiere of an opera.
One good thing about the new opera
as far as the girls are concerned, it puts
no strain on coupons either for stockings
or sandals —every mother’s daughter and
son in the story goes barefoot through-
out. Another point is that in the scenes
males do not mingle with the girls. At
one time there are 46 Eves on the stage
and not one male—not even a serpent.
Tomorrow afternoon from 2.30 on-
wards there will be great activity in the
rooms of the Far East Welfare Auxiliary,
at 8a Castlereagh-street the second annual
meeting will be held, with Lady Wake-
hurst, who is the president, directing pro-
ceedings. There must be content in
the minds of the workers in this
cause, for in the two years they have
done much to soften the blows of fate to
those evacuees who, leaving home (and
often fortune) behind them, fled the Japa-
nese terror. For in those days two years
ago there was terror in the thought of
such invasion even for us in Australia,
now so secure behind the formidable
resistance put up by our own stalwarts
and our American Allies.
Not only the material needs of the in-
voluntary guests were met as far as could
be, but the rooms,in Castlereagh-street
have been a refuge for the mind and the
spirit. Here are available copies of broad-
casts from the short-wave section of the
A.8.C., lists of civilian internees as well
as of prisoners of war, and extracts from
private letters which are eagerly read by
those whose relations or friends are still
in enemy-occupied territory.
Wembley couldn’t have been better
planned than the fair to be set in
Government House grounds next Satur-
day. Knight Sam Walder has made
a complete blueprint of the grounds,
where each stall stands and where
the kiddies’ corner and the polished
dancing floor are placed. This will
be pasted on a board so that the
clouds of women helpers will have
no difficulty in finding their spot of use-
fulness, For the first time in its career
Government House will have turnstiles
at its gates. The gates near the lodge
will be taken off and stiles from Luna
Park will clang their song of sixpence for
children, one shilling for grown-ups.
Stocks for the stalls will be stored in
the ballroom all night, ready to be
rushed to their gaily-a.wninged setting
early on Saturday morning. There will
be taxi dancing on the lower lawn, and
Brian Lawrence will bring his orchestra,
so it should be a fine money-making
stunt. Mrs. Frank Packer and Mrs.
Osborne are in charge. For those who
are on the lookout for dolls (not human)
there are three beauties to be won in
competitions at the children’s corner. In
addition, Mrs. Harold Bott, who presides
here, has a case of apples, bottles of lager,
wine, turkeys and pretty well everything.
Members of the Commercial Travellers’
Club and of Tattersall’s will be rivals in
the chocolate-wheel business. In short,
everything is set for Saturday being a
gala if the weather is kind. Probably
president Mrs. Bertie Kelly, Mrs. Robert
Dixson and Mrs. C. P. Johnson will even
shame the weather man into that when
they point out to him what it means to
the Crown-street establishment.
This is Sheila Mackay, clever Sydney
girl, now brushing up her Australiana
before going lecturing in the United
States. She has been in England for some
years, and has been attached to Britain’s
M. 0.1. since just after the beginning of
the war. Sheila tells that women writers
in England, among them the widely
known Naomi Jacob and Phyllis Bot-
tome, are doing a fine job of lecturing
in the cause.
Among the newly-engaged is popular
Margaret Mary Rankin, N.S.W. woman
golf champion. She is a daughter of the
A. A. Rankins, of Newcastle, and her
affianced is Charles Lucien Miles Shoppee.
His father is Squadron-Leader Shoppee.
D.F.C., of the R.A.F., who served
in the last war and was on the staff of
Sir Robert Brooke-Popham during the
fighting days in Singapore. Now he is a
prisoner of war.
Audrey Barrow, the young pianist
whose recital filled the Conservatorium
last week, had in her audience Lady
Wakehurst and Netherlands Consul-
General Pennink and his wife (the con-
cert being in aid of the Dutch patriotic
funds). Yesterday she was one of the
stars at the Lunchtime Music Club’s
concert at the old address in History
House. The smooth, rich baritone of
Arpold Matters and Eileen Boyd’s fluent
contralto added yet another link between
the listener and such friends as Grieg,
Handel and Mozart. Musical director
Sydney de Vries made apt comment on
the day’s composers.
The well-known Pamela Bushell an-
nounced her engagement last week.
Pamela, a private in the A.A.M.W.S.,
went to the Middle East as a voluntary
aid in 1941 and remained there till early
in 1943. Later her work lay in New
Guinea. Major J. M. Yeates, A.A.M.C.,
is the affianced. His father is Herbert
Yeates, M.L.A., of Toowoomba, Queens-
land. Pamela’s parents are the P. H.
Bushells, of Darling Point.
On Thursday of next week animal
lovers will be crowding into Farmer’s
Blaxland Galleries for the poster exhibi-
tion that marks the beginning of yet
another Be Kind to Animals Week. A col-
lection at the ferry wharves and on the
north side of the harbor will add a bit
to the till. Then, of course, there will be
the annual shop, and on Saturday, May
20, the grand finale will be the dog gym-
khana and fete in the grounds of Ravens-
wood College, Gordon. A parade ot
popular dog competitors and the presen-
tation of the prizes won are to be the
super attractions of the afternoon.
From Melbourne
Like Fido, everybody seems to be en-
gaged in getting a new coat for the winter.
Shopping crowds have grown earnest
and appear to be really buying things
instead of just walking through the shops
and picking* up odds and ends just to
justify the incursion. It looks as if colors
will be even more striking than in the last
few winters. Most popular buys should
be red shades, ranging from rust to royal
scarlet and on to purplish reds like mul-
berry and cyclamen. Shades and pat-
terns show a curious throwback to those
of coronation year —the same deep
“royal” tones and the same pictorial pat-
terns of dogs, ships, pothooks and so
forth instead of chaotic wiggly-wigglies.
Brides who had exhausted the poten-
tialities of chops and custard tart have
been sending up hymns of praise to the
powers that have published Lucy Drake’s
monumental cookery work for the fourth
time since war began. Latest edition is
edited by Dorothy Giles, of Emily Mac-
pherson College. It is one of those
cookery books that the “one foot before
the other —carefully now” style of cook
finds the answer to a maiden’s prayer, as
it leaves nothing unexplained and adds
little warnings here and there about the
wrong things the neophyte is probably
doing. Notebook shape is an improve-
ment, too, as it’s simpler for reading in
a hurry.
Talking of cooking, there’s a grievance
started well on its way amongst house-
wives by a correspondent to one of the
dailies who avers that many hundreds
of tins of powdered eggs are being sup-
plied to pastrycooks by the Army, which
doesn’t need as many as were dehydrated.
Main grievance is that powdered eggs,
which are perfectly good for cooking,
are being denied to the housewife —they
can’t be bought in the shops.
Lifting her voice for Opportunity Club
funds is Rae Benjamin, here pictured. A
Queenslander by birth, she’s a singer
(contralto) and was a scholarship-holder
at Albert-street Coh., where she completed
her course a year ago. Since then a war
job has claimed her days, though she has
kept up her singing. The recital she is
giving in the good cause takes place at
Albert-street Con. on Wednesday', April
26. Artgraf made this picture of Rae.
Other dos to fill Opportunity Club
coffers are booked for the same week.
Mdme. Otlee (who’s shown great interest
in the clubs for a long time and given a
singing scholarship for children belong-
ing to them), will give a concert with her
pupils and Col. Burgess’s military choir
on the 27th. An item will be a quintet
of lasses from the Richmond Club. Book-
ing is at Glen’s. Another good effort, the
Town Hall group’s bridge party, was held
last week. A meeting of suburban
mayoresses brought promises of jumble
sales and picture nights.
Kew, always a progressive munici-
pality, has led the way in providing
volunteer help for wives of service men
with their children and shopping. It is
not so much in housekeeping that the
Kew workers think mothers need help,
but in jollying along while the man of
the family is away soldiering. There’s a
hollow feeling when after a few days of
glorious leave he goes back and the house
seems empty, and the children get on
mother’s nerves. Kew volunteers then
step in, mind the youngsters while mother
goes with a pal to the pictures, do her
week-end shopping for her and save her the
drag home with parcels, pram and babies.
When the cables announced that
Princess Elizabeth’s newest hat had been
copied and thousands of it sold to girls
in Great Britain, Melbourne social scribes
set out to find what this city was going
to do about it. Milliners met them with
cold reserve. They were not impressed;
they had seen this model earlier in the
year, but had not liked it. The more
conservative hinted to inquirers that
royalty is hot expected to set fashions,
but to follow them discreetly. Said one:
“I worked for Queen Mary for years
when I was in a Regent-street shop, and
she wouldn’t look at a new model. As
for dresses, she always asked first ‘What
will it cost?’ Her top limit was forty
guineas, but it took a lot of hard work
to sell her anything at near that figure.”
The “just-after-Easter” weeks were
once the least matrimonially-marked ones
of the year. Not so now that “when leave
permits” rules the naming of the date.
Joyce Hayden Smith and bridegroom
Surgeon-Lieut. Norman Speirs, who were
married on Friday, had made wedding
plans in a matter of a few days. Never-
theless, the bride was garbed in tradi-
tional white chiffon and tulle. Planning
well ahead on the other hand is Helen
Plante, whose knot-tying to John Wis-.
dom will take place on the 26th. She
has let it be known in advance that
speeches are to be taboo.
A Renaissance gown of oyster satin
embroidered With pearls and Limerick
lace floor-length veil made Alison
Hamer’s bridal array for her marriage
with Lieut. Finlay Patrick in Melbourne
Grammar chapel. In contrast, bridesmaid
Molly Turnbull wore up-to-the-moment
garb, a pistachio-green dinner frock being
matched with the Dutch-girl bonnet that
is the latest craze in headgear. The
reception at the H. R. Hamers’ home
was marked by very short speeches—a
few witty words from Mr. Justice Martin
and a jolly “my wife and I” rejoinder by
bridegroom sufficed. The pair have
chosen Portsea for their brief honey-
moon. Future plans depend on war’s
duration and development.
A queue that stretched from Swanston-
street (and beyond) was waiting to buy
seats for winter symphony concerts when
booking opened last week. A new
arrangement is that Saturday-night con-
certs will be repeated on Monday nights,
because so many have had to be refused
seats in past The advantage is
not only on the side of the public, but
also favored by members of the orchestra,
who’ve felt, many of them, in the past
that after so much work at rehearsals* it
was a pity that only one performance of
each work was possible.
One of the youngest members of the
symphony orchestra this season will be
Joan Haslam, who received her Mus. Bac.
degree a fortnight or so ago. Young
brother John, who took part in concerts
at 16, is deep in musical studies at the
moment, but he’s nearing 18, and sterner
work lies ahead. He favors the Navy.
Joan is a pupil of Jeanne Gautier, all ot
whose pupils say that the French artist
is inspiring as a teacher. They are all
keen to prolong her stay here.
Going abroad on Red Cross scholar-
ships to study “psychiatry as related to
rehabilitation” (whatever that may mean
in plain English), Helen Clarke and
Mernie Yeomans are receiving congratu-
lations and good wishes. Mernie Yeo-
mans has been head of the re-employ-
ment efforts of Red Cross in this city for
some time. Helen Clarke is following in
the footsteps of fellow Janet Clarke Hail
student Margaret Grutzner, who went
abroad for the same course a year ago.
More than met the casual eye was in-
herent in the send-off of the Infant Wel-
fare van by a gathering that included a
Minister of the Crown, Cr. Murphy, of
Beech worth, Cr. Harris, of Corryong/and
most of the LW. heads when it left for
Towong and Upper Murray shires. The
idea back of the van is a sharing of the
burden of this sort of social service be-
tween municipalities and the State. Shires
are beginning to compete for these vans,
which not only carry nurse and medical
supplies to help young mothers with new
babies, but also a welfare worker trained
in child lore.
Last week saw a gathering under the
guidance of the Australia-China Co-
operation Association, which seeks to pro-
vide comforts for men of the Chinese
fighting forces. At a chamber music re-
cital in the delightful Theosophical Hall
(why it isn’t used more for such pur-
poses is one of those mysteries) Chinese
service men, led by the naval attache,
Captain Wang, were among the guests,
and Prof. Barker, who pioneered the asso-
ciation, and the indefatigable Mrs. Eliza-
beth Marshall, its secretary, saw that
introductions were effected and a friendly
atmosphere established before the music
began.
The 150th night of record-breaking
comedy “Kiss and Tell” is being cele-
brated tonight by a backstage party at
the Comedy (which has an attractive tiny
annexe complete with bar fixtures for dos
of the kind). Hostess is Mrs. Esmond
Lillies, publicity C.-in-C.


Thousands have written ....
THESE TABLETS can help YOU,
too, to new vigorous health!
W r /?M ,srfW° TABLETS
FOR BLOOD, VEINS, ARTERIES, ETC.
d
Thousands of
grateful users have
written of the
amazing speed and
effectiveness of
Elasto in relieving
weariness and pain
resulting from
sluggish or poor
blood condition.
People suffering from rheuma-
tism, varicose veins, varicose
ulcers, piles, eczema and other
skin complaints, and even phle-
bitis, have successfully taken
Elasto tablets.
Elasto brings quick relief—the
amazing efficacy of this new
Biomedical treatment is due to
the fact that it goes to work
right at the source of the trouble
—on the blood stream.
Much unnatural weariness and
many chronic pain conditions are
due to a break-down of the blood
circulation system or a paucity
of certain elements of the blood
itself.
How ELASTO Works
Elasto is not a drug, but a
vital cell food. It restores vital
elements which combine with the
blood albumin to form organic
elastic tissue. This in turn en-
ables nature to restore elasticity
to the tired and devitalised fab-
ric of veins, arteries, etc.
Results
Aa a result, normal, healthy
circulation is re-established and
true natural healing: follows.
Varicose veins are restored to a
healthy condition; arteries be-
come supple; skin troubles clear
up, leg wounds heal naturally,
piles and rheumatism are re-
lieved. This is explained simply
but more fully in a free booklet
offered see below.
What users of ELASTO say:
“No signs of varicose veins
now.”
“Completely healed my vari-
cose ulcers ”
“ 'Blasto' has quite cured my
eczema.”
“My doctor marvelled at my
quick recovery from phlebitis.”
Send for FREE Booklet
Simply send your name and
address to "Elasto", Box 1552 B,
Sydney, for youi FREE copy of
the interesting “Elasto” booklet.
Or better still, get a supply of
Elasto (with booklet enclosed)
from your chemist today and see
for yourself what a wonderful
difference Elasto makes. Obtain-
able from chemists and stores
everywhere. Price 7/6, one
month’s supply.
IBiiISiWiWBiBM
/
or
Quality !
uora
mmm
d
m
THE call on the
Akubra Mills
for hats for the
Services has been,
and still is, very
great. But there are
Akubra Pure Fur Felt
Hats still available for
civilian wear.
BUY 5/- NATIONAL.
SAVINGS STAMPS
LOOK YOUR BEST IN AH AKUBRA
FOOD
for Action
Grand stuff,cocoa!
There’s nothing
like a steaming hot
mug of it to dispel
fatigue and set a man
up again. That’s why
cocoa is so popular with
the chaps in the Army, Air Force and Navy. In
many cases it is Bournville Cocoa with that recog-
nisable chocolaty flavour. Government orders to
Cadbury’s call for Bournville Cocoa in quantities of
many tons per week, but there is still some Bournville
Cocoa for the home front.
fADBOM'S
BOURN VILLE
COCOA
Made by the makers of Dairy Milk Chocolate and Energy Chocolate.
8CP2.15
SMOKE-OH!
“Fisherman tells Court he earns £4O a week.”
— “Argus.”
The Taxation Commissioner will now
drop him a line.
❖ -I* *F *F
“She had a magnificent home, her own car
and a thousand a year—but Marie thought of
the fine house as merely a cage.”
— Woman’s paper.
The £lOOO p.a. also was merely bird-
seed.
4* 4* 4* f
“Actress makes sun suit out of old frock.
—Melbourne “Herald."
A pin-up and tack girl.
•F *F *F *F
“Umbrellas have had a curious history.”
, —“ World’s News.”
All ups and downs, *
•F *F *F *F
“The defendant, Ernest Popper, had asked her
to marry him seven times, but she had refused
him r—“D.T.”
“Girls are an inch taller and 101 b. heavier
than they were on ari average 20 years ago.”
— “World’s News:”
But only ten years older.
+ 4* ♦
“No one could be a good cook unless he
possessed a capacity for taking pains.”
— Chef’s article in “Argus.”
But not giving them.
“If necessity enforced it we could live on
onions alone.” — Melbourne dietitian.
Alone is right!
►l* 4* 4* 4*
“£3 reward. Lost, black cat with red ribbon,
of sentimental value only, around neck. Finder
keep cat.” — “Sun” advt.
Truly a lucky find —£3 and a cat to
boot!
•J* 4* 4*
“Eat for beauty.”— Woman’s paper.
It will then be more than skin-deep.
Nocturne.
Last night they brought the coffin car
To bear the grisly corpse away.
While, hearing banshee wails afar.
In frozen fear I yearned for day.
Then round about the ancient manse.
With grinning teeth and eyes of fire.
Grey spectres did a ghastly dance
In hopes that I would soon expire.
If plonk and lobster yield such pain
I’ll never have them on again !
T. W. NATHAN.
He popped the question many times;
Refused, he would not drop her.
Still she'd not yield her single bliss
For any Ernest Popper.
P. P.
Individualistic Difficulties.
“Individualistic ideas sometimes bar the way
to success in the professions.”— “Sun.”
As an ex-under accountant I can sub-
scribe to this dictum. When, for instance,
the daybook came to me, I refused to
accept its entries ready-made. Most of
the world’s difficulties, I maintain, are
due to a dull acceptance of what is told
one, either by voice or writing. Declining
to be a mere copyist I used my imagina-
tion. If a figure was nine I entered it as
six, and so on ; and I added discounts
to the sum instead of deducting them.
The chief accountant hit the roof; he
is one of those hidebound followers of
formalities. And the auditors went mad •,
one of them, after a month on the firm’s
audit, took permanently to drink.
Similarly, when 1 was given some docu-
ments on which were the words “On
Demand Pay” my soul revolted at such,
as it were, totalitarian imperativeness. 1
threw them into the w.p.b.
When they took me to task about what
they claimed was a gross oversight, and
hinted that I would be lucky if I wasn’t
prosecuted, I delivered the directors a
long homily on individualism.
But I wasn’t lucky. As an individualist
I couldn’t back favorites. I selected my
own fancies,'mostly 100-to-l shots, and,
as an individualist, used the firm’s money.
After all, using one’s own money is
merely being a slave to orthodoxy.
1 am now out of jail, but as an indi-
vidualist t-refuse to look for a job. Let
one look for me!
H. M.
High Voltage.
That Mae’s a live wire lots of men
Declare, and I their views endorse.
For what a shock she gave me when
She landed me in that divorce!
NAT.
“Down the Ringing Grooves....”
Granny Yerrold slowly pirouetted, her
eyes on her reflection in the long mirror.
She stopped and faced it, took another
long look at herself and heaved a sigh
of ecstatic happiness.
“And what do y’ think of me new
rigout, dearie?” she asked,
Mrs, Oeldist-Reeder clasped her mit-
tened hands and ran an appraising glance
over the other.
“My, Granny!” she said, “but you do
look smart.”
“Well, though I do say it as per’aps
shouldn’t, I ’ave gone all smart, let me
tell y’. I ’ave a great hadmiration for these
modern things. Y’ know, dearie, ’ow I
dote on them contemporary hartists, for
instance.
“I might be 113 now, but no one can
accuse me of lettin’ meself fall into the
sour and yeller, as they say. Not, mind y’,
that I’m usin’ such a different make-up
that I can be mistaken for one of them
flappers.”
“But don’t you feel strange in it,
Granny? You’ve worn the other for so
long you know.”
“Well,” said Granny Yerrold, “how
would you feel if you’d worn red turkey
twill drawers, four petticoats, lace-at-the-
back corsets, black cotton stockin’s, low-
waisted black Italian cloth dress and a
poke bonnet for as long as I ’ave and
wus then suddenly put into swami scan-
ties, brassiere, step-ins, an uplift knee-
length frock and a thing on y’r ’ead that
don’t look like a ’at? I admit it takes
a bit o’ gettin’ used to, but I think- it
looks loverly.”
“One of the girls,” went on Mrs.
Oeldist-Reeder, “was only wondering this
morning what had come over you. You
to shout ‘Yours-for-the-Revolution.’ ”
“Revolootion, nothin’!” shrieked
Granny belligerently. “There’s never
hany suggestion of revolootion in bower
’Unter-street hestablishment, and you ca
tell ’er that from me. It’s Revolootion.
And I didn’t decide it suddenly mat
ain’t done in hower place, heither. ive
been thinkin’ hover it for years,
“Well,” said Mrs. Oeldist-Reeder, 1
suppose after all the excitement ot getting
into your new clothes you’ll be wanting
to go to bed now?” . .
Granny Yerrold glanced again m me
mirror, gave her saucy new hat a tilt and
executed a few skittish skips. Bed, me
heye!” she snorted. “I’m ort to
Banano’s fer cocktails an’ a spot ot
jitterbuggin’ with that nice young Mr.
Tablid from further hup town. Hi
mignt be back before the milkman
arrives.”
Bo.


THE OTHER FELLOW'S MIND
The contributor placed first is paid
4|d. per line; all others 2£d. per line.
Poetry—and Singapore
It is a curious fact that a certain sec-
tion of Australians is writing poetry or
near-poetry in quantities not dreamed of
two years ago, and another larger section
of Australians enjoys reading it and
hungers for more.
During the last year I have been aston-
ished to find country people, shearers,
farmers, farm laborers, housewives, young
and old, devouring poetry.
My guess at the reason of the change
is—Singapore. Till Singapore fell the
war was a faraway thing to most of us.
Its fall stirred our souls ; drenched us in
agonies of emotion ; stripped us of false
trappings. Even those who did not lose
loved ones there experienced fear for
homes and dear ones here ; fear for Aus-
tralia. That fear was as if a primal wind
had blown across us. It stirred our sub-
conscious minds to unknown depths. We
thought deeply, though we may not have
realised it at the time.
Poetry and a longing for poetry were
the results, for the chief themes of poets
are life, death, birth, love and the beauties
of nature. Poetry is therefore a means of
relief—an escape from tension. Poets
fashioned the channels of words along
which their own emotions flowed, and
their readers are using those channels,
too, for the relief of their previously
dammed emotions. Olive Willey
(W.A.).
In Praise of Menzies
In the late brief session of Parliament
the Leader of the Opposition stood
out from the so-called leaders of this
country. He ignores or squashes Ward,
and treats the Prime Minister and the
Attorney-General as if they were trouble-
some and spoilt children.
The Communists are afraid of Bob.
They remember the “imperialistic” days
early in this war and how the then Prime
Minister had the sense and the courage
to ban their trouble-making organisa-
tions. Their only counter is more and
more abuse, uglier and uglier cartoons,
interspersed with periodical outbursts by
Eddie —“The bombast of Hitler,” etc.
But R.G. goes on.
Yes, he goes on. Selfishness and jeal-
ousy brought his temporary downfall in
1941, but he was not eclipsed. Per-
haps 1946 will see a bigger swing than
1943 did ; perhaps internal quarrels will
hasten the election ; but, be it 1944, 1946
or 19??, Bob will be back, to wipe the
regulations of Dedman back to Glasgow
if necessary.—F. N. Cox (Vic.),
War and Sacrifice
The most pregnant statement made
concerning this war came from the lips
of Brigadier Gorman when he was
A.C.F. Commissioner. Returned from
the M.E. and listening to the history of
sacrifices made on the home front, his
reply epitomised what every fighting man
feels: “In war there is only one sacrifice,
and that is the sacrifice of life.”
Before we can have an all-in war effort
we will need a Government with sufficient
backbone to impose on us something
like the Nazi manner of living. Let us
have a Gestapo, concentration camps, an
easily-earned death penalty, forced
patriotism, public execution for the black-
marketeer, no petrol for private cars,
ersatz clothing, the minimum of food and
no consideration. Then the people will
realise, at least temporarily, what our lot
will be permanently if Hitler or his
Japanese ally ever controls Australia. We
need some such measures to make us
appreciate democracy, and fight for it
tooth and nail —while we may yet fight.
—Spartan (A.1.F.).
Art Galleries and the Young
A fuss h;,.:- en made in Melbourne
lately a bom ti e evil of children going
to c attended. A greater
evil, t of thinking, is their
going -v K ies unattended. Hordes
of yo ■ M , r. 'ade the National Gal-
lery d; <:■ dence of their activities
is to t ■ >! he statuary.
You t is poke their fingers
into p :s “vases and romp about
the ph were a circus. Blame
rests c ts who have failed to
endow importance for these
youngs making education too
easy L the authorities have
done is to teach them to be disrespect-
ful. They don’t go into churches that
way, and until they can be taught to go
into an art gallery with the same awe
that they would feel in a cathedral they
should not be allowed to enter at all.
And that applies to young men and
women who use galleries for flirtations
and older persons who use them to sleep
in.
You never see this in Europe, where
art has a long tradition of prestige. One
way to instil the same spirit into Aus-
tralian children would be to charge an
entrance fee and use the money for buy-
ing pictures. People have to pay to get
into cinemas, and therefore show even
the trashiest of them far more respect
than they do art galleries.—L. L. (Vic.).
Land Settlement
There’s just enough truth, in “Ham-
let’s” sling-off (B. 22/3/’44) to get it
over. We Australians don’t like the land
as well as we did, but this is true of most
other races. What may make it tragic for
us is that we have so much unused or
only semi-used land.
Why isn’t it used? Apart from some
disinclination there’s the problem of capi-
tal. You can start a comfortable little
business in town with a modest sum, but
it costs a small fortune to go on the
land and sweat. Any land-hungry young-
ster should be able to get the makings
“Report to Man-power in the morning !”
of a farm without money, just as he
can get a city job without money.
Secondly, there’s need for a better
understanding of country income in com-
parison with the urban variety. A man
in the country on three pounds a week
who pays no' rent nor fares to and
from work and gets firewood and a good
deal of food for nothing has the
equivalent of his city brother’s six
pounds per week. But it is very hard to
convince him of this.
Last, but not least, propaganda will
have to be turned on to get the Aus-
tralian away from the idea that it’s smart
to live in town. Every little alley rat
thinks he’s superior to a country boy.
And many a country boy, lured by the
glamor that surrounds a city job, has left
what he thought to be the muck and
hardships of a farm to crawl on a cold,
slimy garage floor and tinker with the
greasy innards of a motor-car. By com-
parison with plenty of city jobs there’s
nothing wrong with farm work.
Let’s restore farming’s prestige. Once
a farmer was lord of the land ; now he’s
only a hayseed joke on stage and screen
and radio. You can’t blame youngsters
if they shy away from that caricature.
After all, farming is an intelligent way
for Australians (with so much land per
head) to live. — Enveen (Tas.),
Criticising Criticism
“Nairda” (B. 26 /1 / ’44) reads into my
words a meaning they do not contain.
Nothing I have written justifies the
thought that I wish to “discourage criti-
cism.”
My contention is that criticism that is
solely destructive is of little use. Pro-
gress is attained by making or giving
something, no matter how small ; de-
struction rarely accomplishes anything.
Criticism is an essential part of pro-
gressive thought, and no one save a nit-
wit would wish to crush or even dis-
courage such a useful adjunct to life;
but I am afraid so many people are so
mentally lazy that having written their
destructive criticism (the easiest part)
they jib at attempting to formulate some-
thing to replace that which they desire
to destroy.
Knowledge of life is built up, as
“Nairda” says, “by constant criticism
and probing into existing theories and
beliefs” ; but his very statement implies
a desire to find something better, not
merely a wish to destroy what already
exists.
It is this hankering after destruction
that I would see controlled, and I offer
the theory that if one presumes to destroy
one should also presume to replace that
which is destroyed by something better.
If nothing better can be found, then one
should refrain from destruction until the
better thing is found. — Bahut Achchha
(Fiji).
Secrecy of the Ballot
There is no such thing in Queensland.
All ballot papers now are provided
with a gummed top left-hand corner. It
is the practice of presiding officers to
write the elector’s roll number thereon
and stick it down. The papers are held
until the results are declared, the plea
being that a check may become neces-
sary in event of challenge.
An assurance is given that the number
will never be checked against the roll —
but what is that assurance worth?
The plain fact is that these elections
are constitutionally invalidated, because
people are afraid to vote against any
power which controls those papers and
can detect their political viewpoint.—E.
G. Sheldon (Q.).
Income Tax
The Government got away with the
“Pay-as-you-go” (Taxpayers’ Bounty) Bill,
surcharge and all. I have an uneasy hunch
it will repeat the gesture next year, and
ease the burden of tomorrow’s taxation
by placing us on a “pay-in-advance”
basis, with another 75 p.c. remission of
tax liability, and, of course, another 25
p.c. surcharge.
If the bill was really intended as a
generous gesture to taxpayers, why was
it not left for them to decide by giving
to each individual taxpayer the right
to elect whether he will “pay as he
goes,” on the proposed basis, or con-
tinue as at present?
No doubt quite a few taxpayers would
adopt the proposal out of loyalty to the
Government, but my guess is that the
great majority would turn it down. Pay-
as-you-go is all very well for those who
start that way, but I for one, having
started off a beat behind the band, would
prefer to lag along in the same tempo
for the rest of the very forced march. —
E. M. M. (W.A.).
New Orderism
When Alexander wept for new worlds
to conquer it was probably because he
wished to inflict on them his idea of a
new order. He’s had all sorts of emula-
tors.
Now the average man is concerned
mainly with two things: (1) Keeping his
stomach full and his feet warm, and (2)
being left alone by Authority. If he is
left alone he can generally manage the
other part, but then he is liable to be satis-
fied and not to worry about new orders,
post-war reconstruction and so forth*;
hence the planners and plotters rise up
and seek to thrust their new orders upon
him by fair means or foul, mostly foul.
After the last war a lot of people
thought a new order, manufactured in
Geneva, was about to enfold this sinful
and suspicious world like the blessed
rain on a droughty paddock. But it
didn’t, and the world went on being
sinful and selfish and misguided ordinary
blokes persisted in wanting to be left
alone. Now the air is again full of words
and rivers of ink are being expended on
new-orderism, what time the ordinary
bloke maintains a suspicious silence.
This silence is apt to madden whole-
souled apostles of the new order. Already
they are expressing sentiments ranging
from pity to wrath whenever they con-
template what they call the “lack of
public interest in the post-war world.”
Since pitying a fellow won’t stop him
following his own bent, it looks as though
somebody might get hurt when, or if, our
new-orderists attain any sort of power.
They are attaining power in Australia- —
every tinpot little despot now in a Gov-
ernment department has no intention of
getting out of it —but just who will gei
hurt only the future can decide. —O. T.
(N.S.W.).
A Travelling Scholarship
A scholarship has recently been given
in Victoria which entitles the winner to
two years’ travel visiting American kin-
dergartens. After this little jaunt, presum-
ably by rocket gun, the traveller will take
a degree at Columbia University. She
will return to Australia with a title for
which she would have no qualifications
here.
The Kindergarten Diploma in Aus-
tralia has no University standing and is
not recognised as any part of a degree
course. This girl, however, will presum-
ably assume University graduate status
here on her return and be accepted by
the public as the intellectual equal of the
Australian science graduate whose status
is recognised throughout the scientific
world.
It is time this sort of thing was de-
bunked.—Jane Carlton (Vic.).
Loan Advertising
I don’t like that part of the Victory
Loan campaign which relates the story
“This was my son,” and I have a feeling
that it is causing concern and heartaches
in hundreds of homes.
Surely there is some way of stirring the
patriotism of Australians other than
these ad misericordiam appeals to emo-
tional sentimentalism.
The Kokoda Trail is a suitable back-
ground to stress our duty to the nation’s
wdr effort, whilst the heroisms enacted
in and around there offer an abundance
of suitable material. The citations used
in awarding Victoria Crosses could be
used with excellent effect. — No Costs
(Q-).
The Birthrate
“Ajax” (B. 22/ 3 / ’44) suggests that
the falling birthrate is due to other
causes than the use of contraceptives.
There has always been a certain amount
of sterility among humans as well as
other animals, but if sterility is on the
increase in Australia the medical pro-
fession has not warned us of it.
If contraceptives are not the chief cause
of our low birthrate will “Ajax” explain
why the traffic in them is so large, and
why no small proportion of the pur-
chasers are young women?
A great deal of attention is being given
to soil erosion, and money is being spent
to save the soil for our descendants.
Would it not be better to make sure of
having descendants to save it for? —
lan J. (Vic.).
Planters and Missions
I am becoming rather tired of the con-
tinuous stream of propaganda directed
by missions against the New Guinea
planters, charging them with the exploi-
tation of the natives.
Are the missions themselves above sus-
picion in this respect? Many are com-
mercial concerns, owning and operating
plantations, ships, etc.; and paying the
same wages as the private employer (or
less), and, it is alleged, very often send-
ing the profit out of the country.
Other missions do not trade, but figures
taken from the “Methodist Missionary
Review,” showing annual collections for
New Britain of approximately £BQOO per
annum, demonstrate that there are other
ways of extracting money from the
natives.
Finally, there has been political exploi-
tation of the native by foreign mission-
aries. It was allowed to continue un-
checked right up to the Japanese
invasion, and has left a terrible leg°'' ,r
in the hostility to us of a section of
native population and in the lives lost
our own men because of the assists
given to the Japanese by these sai
missionaries. New Britain Plant
(N.S.W.).


a
m
k
w>
&
53>
\.
6 Submarine on
the starboard quarter”...
In his book "Heroes of Fighting R.A.F.”, Leonard
Gribble tells a thrilling story of the rescue of
thirty-four of a ship’s crew by flying boats of
the British Coastal Command.
The freighter "Kensington Court", deep laden
with wheat was ploughing through heavy seas
towards the British coast.
Suddenly the cry: "Submarine on the star-
board quarter".
The "Kensington Court”, unarmed, ran for it.
And out went an S.O.S.
Overhauling the freighter, the U-boat began
shelling at short range. The "Kensington Court"
was doomed. As the crew was taking to the
boats, two flying boats roared out of the clouds.
The U-boat crash-dived.
Within minutes of the sending of the S.O.S.
the rescue of the "Kensington Court’s” crew was
being staged in a fresh sea. The sailors in an
inflated rubber boat were hauled from their
lifeboats to the tossing planes.
Another chapter in the history of the part
radio plays in this war.
*****
Aeroplanes, ships, guns and radio. Australian industry to-day
is producing everything for her own defence. But radio makes
them into one powerful striking force. We owe much to the
Australian resourcefulness and courage which made possible
the building of all such equipment in Australia.
Whilst Australian enterprise is free to build and plan we
need never fear being cut off from our sources of supply. —
Amalgamated Wireless (A/asia) Ltd.
