

GRAPE VINEGAR
The Bulletin
“The Bulletin,” Vol. 65~~N0. 3363
Wednesday, July 26, 1944
Price 6dL
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaner.
Seppelts
TRADITIONAL HOME OF THE BALIOLS.
DURHAM’S BARNARD CASTLE.
QN the summit of a high, rocky cliff westward of the Durham
town of Barnard are the ruins of this once magnificent castle in
whose history is rooted deep much that is traditionally English.
William the Red King gave to Guy Baliol —one of his father’s
followers from Normandy—vast forests in this district; and it was
Guy’s oldest sen, Barnard, who built this castle about 1130. For
a hundred and sixty years the fortress remained the home of the
Baliois. On the forfeiture of the estates g| John Baliol, King of
Scotland, in 1294, Edward I gave the castle to Guy Beauchamp,
Earl of Warwick, in whose family it remained through five descents.
After them, Anne Neville, daughter of the king-maker, brought
the property in marriage to Richard 111, at the time Duke of
Gloucester. The sculpture of his cognisance, the white boar, is still
visible on the ruins. In the interior of Barnard Castle is the
building known by tradition as Brackenbury’s Tower, supposed to
be named after Richard’s officer, the notorious constable of the
Tower of London, who was entrusted with the murder of the princes.


‘fSarvccJournflUsin
This Book FREE to YOU!
STOTT'S CORRESPONDENCE COLLEGE.
100 Russell Street, Melbourne.
CUT HERE AND MAIL ~
Please sena, without obligation, your Hew Free
Booklet explaining how to Write for Profit, a*
advertised in the Sydney “Bulletin.”
Uy Name
My Address .
S.B. 144 AGE
The Red Page
How to Read Tom Collins .
Mr. Shean: Of course, Mr. Gallagher,
you have read Tom Collins’s Such Is Life.
Mr. Gallagher: 1 have read Lawson, I
have read Paterson, I have read On Our
Selection and Louis Stone’s Jonah ; I
have even read that good man Ted Dyson,
whom nearly everybody has forgotten ;
but never have I read Tom Collins.
Shean: Though The Bulletin pub-
lished him in 1903, and there was an
abridged edition edited by Vance Palmer
in 1937, he has never been generally
available. But now that (in a somewhat
belated celebration of the centenary of
his birth in 1843) Angus and Robertson
have published him in full with the
recommendation of the Commonwealth
Fund, you will, of course, read him at once.
Gallagher: Are you suggesting, Mr.
Shean, that it is my duty to read Tom
Collins?
Shean: I would as soon suggest to a
bullock that it is its duty to eat grass.
Professors, critics and others of the de-
pressed classes may have to read books
from a sense of duty ; but you and the
bullock, you graze where you will for the
pleasure of it.
Gallagher: Nobody ever invited me
before to read Tom Collins for the fun of
him.
Shean; Come, Mr. Gallagher, literary
gentlemen have been talking about him
for years.
Gallagher: Literary gentlemen have
been talking about his politics. I refer
you to an article by Mr. Hartley Grattan
in the “Australian Quarterly” of Sep-
tember, 1937. The article is 9i pages in
length, and 8| pages of it are devoted to
Collins’s politics. “It is, in fact,” he con-
cludes, “a book full of ‘dangerous
thoughts,’ and for that reason not least
a (adj.) fine book for the present genera-
tion.”
Shean: I trust, Mr. Gallagher, you do
not object to a book full of (adj.)
dangerous thoughts about socialism?
Gallagher : Not at all, Mr. Shean;
but it is not a true recommendation for a
work of literature to say that its political
morals are impeccable. You might as
well ask me to read (adj.) “Hansard.”
Shean : I will let you into a great secret:
Tom Collins wrote about bullockies be-
cause they amused him. Tom Collins the
man had his political beliefs and sympa-
thies like the rest of us ; but Tom Collins
the novelist was as ruthless as Dickens.
Dickens the man, you will remember, was
always wanting to reform mankind and
to abolish the slums; but Dickens the
novelist got all his best characters and all
his best fun out of wicked people who
lived in the slums. I mention Mrs.
Gamp ; I mention Jerry Cruncher. Tom
Collins the man may well have wanted
to improve the conditions of his
bullockies; Tom Collins the writer takes
a delight in their misfortunes. Does he
weep when some arrogant squatter chases
the poor bullocky from his property? He
roars with laughter.
Gallagher; You give me new hope. If
you can prove to me that, by social and
political standards, Tom Collins was as
wicked a man as Dickens, I shall really
try to read him.
Shean: Let us turn to Such Is Life,
page 14. “A low groan from Bum’s mare
followed the heavy stroke of the ruffian’s
spurs. ‘Some of you (fellows) keep roun’
that side,’ said he ; ‘l’ll go this road. Up!
you Red Roverite! ’No use... The mare
had had enough for one day; she
stumbled and fell, rolling heavily over
her rider. ‘What the (quadruple exple-
tive)’s the matter with her?’ he continued,
extricating himself and kicking the beast
till she staggered to her feet. ‘Come on
agen, an’ don’t gimme no more of your
religiousness.’ He remounted, and the
mare, under the strong stimulus of his
spurs, cantered laboriously out into the
dark.”
Gallagher: Well, Mr. Shean, it’s not
wildly funny as you read it; but it is
amusing, I take it, in its context?
Shean: Very. I have chosen this pas-
sage rather than one of his hilarious
accounts of the persecution of bullockies
because it shows a Tom Collins utterly
ruthless by the most elementary humani-
tarian standards. We find him chuckling
with delight not merely at the unfortunate
rider whose steed has rolled heavily over
him, but also at the wretched mare which,
so tired that it is falling from its feet, is
kicked and spurred and goaded into a
canter that may kill it. I am reminded
of Steele Rudd hysterical with laughter
when Dad is trying to cut Joe’s finger off
because the boy has been bitten by a
snake. Mr. Gallagher, I am not trying
to prove to you that Tom Collins the
man was a monster; in his personal life
he was probably kind to both animals and
men. But he did not write about
bullockies to redeem them from oppres-
sion, but to show what good fun
they were. He does not put his
swear words into brackets and euphem-
isms—“(quadruple expletive)”—to con-
ceal the profanity of bullockies, but to
draw attention to it; he loved their gory
oaths. He is not arch about trousers in
order to conceal the fact that they are
worn, but to draw attention to them. The
chaptei where he loses that garment is
exactly comparable to the amatory scenes
of The Pickwick Papers : coy, but thor-
oughly immoral in intention.
Gallagher: Mr. Shean, I rush to the
first page of Such Is Life, and what do I
find?—“Unemployed at last! Scientifi-
cally, such a contingency can never have
befallen of itself. According to one
theory of the Universe, the momentum
of Original Impress has been tending
towards this far-off, divine event ever
since a scrap of fire-mist flew from the
solar centre to form our planet. Not
this event alone, of course; but every
occurrence, past and present, from the
fall of captured Troy to the fall of a cap-
tured insect. According to another
theory, I hold an independent diploma
as one of the architects of our Social
System, with a commission to use my
own judgment, and take my own risks,
like any other unit of humanity. This
theory, unlike the first, entails frequent
hitches and cross-purposes; and to some
malign operation of these I should owe
my present holiday. Orthodoxly, we are
reduced to one assumption: namely,
that my indomitable old Adversary has
suddenly called to mind Dr. Watts’s
friendly hint respecting the easy enlist-
ment of idle handg.”
Shean: I will admit, Mr. Gallagher,
that to call the devil “my indomitable old
Adversary” is the very indomitable old
Adversary of a circumlocution.
Gallagher: But, the devil take it, it’s
all circumlocution!
Shean: Granted that the classics are
nearly always heavy going in patches ;
granted that we are all too impatient these
days ; granted that this is the old style of
novel in which, as in Fielding and Sterne,
the author is entitled to break into the
narrative and prance and posture before
the reader ; granted that here as in Tom
Jones it is delightful to find an author
who has set out to entertain himself as
well as the reader: still it is true that
a writer needs to be a Fielding or a
Sterne to justify his intrusions, and I
find in Such Is Life (as I admit I find
also in Sterne’s Sentimental Journey but
not in Tristram Shandy ) that, speaking in
his own person, the author is not quite
amusing enough fully to merit all the
space he allows to himself,
Gallagher : Then how can you reason-
ably ask anybody to read such stuff?
Shean: I ask you not to read it.
Scholars will read it; quiet-minded men
with much leisure will read it and find in
the playfulness and the puns something
of the charm of Charles Lamb; a lesser
charm, but genuine. But I do not ask
you to bother with second-rate “Essays
of Elia” thrust higgledy-piggledy into the
midst of a novel about bullockies. I sug-
gest that you begin this book at the foot
of page two.
Gallagher; “The forepart of the day
was altogether devoid of interest or event.
Overhead, the sun blazing wastefully and
thanklessly through a rarefied atmo-
sphere ; underfoot, the hot, black clay,
thirsting for spring rain, and bare except
for inedible roley-poleys, coarse tussocks,
and the woody stubble of close-eaten
saltbush; between sky and earth, a soli-
tary wayfarer, wisely lapt in philosophic
torpor. Ten yards behind the grey saddle-
horse follows a black packhorse.” Yes,
that’s a bit more like it.
Shean : I perceive that the light dawns
on you. Tom Collins knew or cared so
little about the technique of writing that
the reader must develop a technique of
reading him. Principally, it is a technique
of skipping. First, you should skip all
critical writings that try to portray this
ruthless humorist, this self-confessed
lover of scoundrels, as a mere humani-
tarian sermoniser. Next you should skip
his interruptions of his own narrative,
whether sermons or flights of whimsi-
cality.
Gallagher; How can I do that when,
as I perceive, the author intrudes on his
story every six pages or so?
Shean: Tom Collins was*a merciful
man. He smoked a meerschaum pipe.
And before the worst of his ruminations
he usually lights that pipe with great
ceremony. While he is lighting it, skip
ten pages. And there are other unmistak-
able warnings. For instance, on page
299, he prefaces an interruption with the
apology “Just three words of comment
here.” And thereby you know at once
that you must skip until the next piece
of dialogue. There are, in fact, not “three
words of comment” but precisely 364.
Gallagher: Very well, I shall skip.
Shean: Yet even that will not solve
the problem of how to read Tom Collins.
The general purpose of the book
is simply to paint the human comedy
as it is played by bullockies. The
characters of the bullockies, their
yarns and adventures, are the stuff
of the novel, the salt and the flavor of it.
But Collins is also telling you four
stories: the light comedy of his relations
with Mrs, Beaudesart; the comedy of his
losing his clothes while swimming a river,
with which is linked the tragi-comedy of
a deaf swaggie; the tragedy of Rory
O’Halloran, a simple Irish lad who nlar-
ries a nagging wife and whose daughter
—in a most moving episode—is lost in
the bush and drowned ; and, the most im-
portant of the subplots, or rather the
basic plot of the book; the story of
Cooper and his sister. To explain that
story to you, Mr. Gallagher, and to show
how it is worked out, I must light my
meerschaum pipe and meditate for three
hours.
Gallagher: Involved?
Shean: As a writer in “Meanjin
Papers” pointed out, Collins uses a
method something like Browning’s in The
Ring and the Book. In more recent times
the technique has been used by Faulkner.
It consists of allowing each of the prin-
cipals of the drama —in this case, three—
to tell the story, or part of it, from his
own “angle.” First of all, a bullocky
named Cooper tells how his sister was
kicked by a horse, disfigured and deserted
by the man she was to have married;
how she disappeared and is believed to
have drowned herself. Then we meet
one Warrigal Alf, a surly fellow, who is
the faithless lover; then we meet one
Nosey Alf, who, though masquerading as
a boundary-rider, is none other than the
long-lost lady. The difference between
Tom Collins’s use of this technique and
that of Browning or Faulkner —both
of whom left you in no doubt as to what
they were doing—is that he is so con-
foundedly subtle about it, casually drifting
into his story again after dropping it for
maybe 50 pages, that you could easily
read Such Is Life without knowing that
you had been following a connected
story. No doubt Collins was trying to
avoid the impression of melodrama which
he’d have made if he’d told this wild
yarn directly. His oversubtlety, I think,
is a fault. A novel is not a crossword
puzzle, and whimsical fellows have no
right to lead! their readers up a gumtree.
The point may be debatable ; but Collins
certainly fell into grievous error —the sin
either of carelessness or of unscrupulous
mystification—when he made this com-
plicated story still more complicated by
bringing in his astounding confusion of
Alfs. The lover is Warrigal Alf, the lady
is Nosey Alf, both are frequently referred
to merely as Alf; and, just to make it
really maddening, there is a bullocky
named Mosey whom you will inevitably
confuse with Nosey and who has nothing
whatsoever to do with the drama of
Cooper and the two Alfs.
Gallagher: You assure me that the
rewards are sufficient compensation for
all these difficulties?
Shean: I would ask you to read from
page 248 to 250 wherein the nine Chinese
boundary-riders trap and impound 173
bullocks and 81 horses; but to find the
full beauty of that comedy of revenge
and indignity—as good a bit of humor
as ever was written —you will really have
to read the whole book. You must meet
for yourself the Scot who described the
Lachlan as a burn; the stranger who ate
two bottles of pickles in the station
store; you must read for yourself the
marvellous dialogue of Scot and Irish-
man, Pommy and Dutchman, Chow and
German to learn that in the portrayal
of character, if debatably in some of the
lesser aspects of the novelist’s art, Collins
was unquestionably a master. This book
is written for “the unprincipled reader”
—Collins’s own phrase —by a man who
loved “men who ought to be avoided”
and who believed that the proper material
for art was “all impressions except those
relating to personal injuries.” As a novel
based on the humor of character, essen-
tially not a political tract but an image
of the great tragi-comedy of man upon
the earth, a wandering, sprawling, richly
earthy tale, it is to be placed in the com-
pany of the great picaresques, Don
Quixote, Tom Jones, The Pichi
Papers. In Australian writing it stoc
alone until Eve Langley wrote The P f
Pickers.
Gallagher: And you seriously mac
tain that Tom Collins is in the class
those giants?
Shean : A. G. Stephens said Such
Life was “fit to become an Australia
classic or semi-classic,” It is still diffici
to be more precise. Collins is a lan
corporal in the company of which 6:
vantes is the captain.
SUNDRY SHOWS.
The Borovansky Ballet:
Anyone who had the Australian theatre
heart, who had suffered under the knowlec;
that Australian shows arc usually second-n
and who had been tempted to believe the lege:
that Australian audiences prefer the secor;
rate would have gone home rejoicing from:
first night of the Borovansky Ballet at Sydc:
Royal: here was a show that no overseas co-
pany could put to shame, and here was
audience obviously delighted with it. Appla.
was loud and long, and in the foyer at the inti
vals the only comments were those of pleas,
and surprise. The truth is Australian audien;
will respond to the first-rate; they are hung
for it. Quality is shown always by attent:
to detail; and what is chiefly remarkable ate
this Melbourne company is the excellence of i
corps de ballet. It is not just that note
puts her wrong foot forward: there was noi
hand, hardly a finger even, out of place. 1
orchestra was one detail that needed pollster,
it may improve when it has had the opp:
tunity for further rehearsals. “Sigrid,” aba
composed by Laurel Martyn, was the gem
the evening; it was so well put together tb
dancing, decor and music were not three thin;
but one thing, and it gave M. Rubinstein
opportunity for some fine work. Borovamir
“Fantasy on Grieg’s Concerto in A Minor”»
an impressive piece of choreography to inac
quate music. “Les Sylphides,” opening the p:
gramme, was the piece that convinced the ait
ence that it was meeting the first-class, at
“Facade,” the gay little item which follow,
it, showed that the first-class can be surprisinr
human.
“F.S.”: Some of the best-known nair.:
in Australian art aren’t to be found
the list of members of the Australia
Academy of Art, which has taken E
Athenaeum, Melbourne, for its sly
annual exhibition, a lot of names are
for apparently insufficient reasons, and
number of pictures are by non-member
so as a cross-section of Australian i
the organisation looks so inconsequent!:
that it might more appropriately
named the Accidental Academy of An
tralian Art. The show is not impress:
and the sculpture section looks as if
had been put in because a full-blo?
academy ought to have a few statu;
Arnold Shaw provides some striking sti
life, William Prater hits off some lan
scape in a high key and Colin Colah:
(London) sends a quick nocturnal imprt
sion of a bomber.
S, Woodward-Smith, a loan collect:
of whose paintings is on view at the Gr
venor Galleries, Sydney, pays—.
Howard Ashton —a great deal of atte:
tion to skies and cloud formations, a'
has experimented with twilight and t
afterglow. He has been linked "
Gruner, though the only connection
a disinclination, not unique among A-
tralian artists of the sincerer sort, to
Mother Nature with frills and furbelc 5
the lady has the good taste to eschew.
George Duncan, whose paintings t
drawings are at the Macquarie Galler:
Sydney, worships at another shrine, t-
of Cezanne. His pictures of bullfight
are deliberately clumsy in drawing -
naive in coloring; in his
Avalon” he has seen red-gums tir
magenta and impart their blushes to t
grass (Cezanne, too, loved a muddle
dirty red in a forest scene). “Miss S,
ney,” a drawing over which so much £
has been taken that it is almost rep
sentational, has bags under the «;•
She should get more sleep. The nuc
“Room Mates” and “Model P° slr
exhibit an extraordinarily obese fan-
“ Spanish Still Life,” painted with a 1#
and more graceful touch than am
the other oils, is spoilt by a
siphon as flat as a sheet of tin.
“P.T.”: Sydney’s Independent TheJ
is at present staging “Oscar Wu<>
Dealing mainly with Wilde’s trial
events leading up to it, the play P OS:,£: ;
little general appeal, and but for
efforts of a well-placed cast would p 1
ably have fallen rather flat. *
Buchanan as Wilde was outstanding
performance being entirely free 01
inevitable first-night flaws in the act
of the rest of the cast.
At the talkies:
Eric Knight wrote an appealing ston.
Lassie Come Home of a colhe which,
its impoverished owner, makes ®s w > ...
from Scotland to its native Yorkshire a
In the screen version now at I s y dne 2 1.
M.-G.-M.’s English studios have finely
captured the spirit of the book. Some
scenes of the Scottish hill and lake counm
northern England have technicolor to en.
their beauty.


“TRUTH IN ADVERTISING”
‘THE SENIOR STORE”
ANTHONY HORDERNS’
120th Year of Service
0
■j
#
mmk
ma
%
‘Smw.
?\A
■JP'
iCfe
i -r /■
«W2#a
. • i
t
6^
'■
&
Z 6
•fi.^
&
m.
ft
rig-
L i It fk
kll dikmi
• '< k :'
2^G _ DCJOQOOO
1 i s
fj/‘
M
■M
[po
Qooo
/■
/:
:>\
3M ■ Vv-
\VT)
& sms
S':
‘ JA
'm
/ ~
.V
r .v
tv- .•• •"
i%iV- V»:> ■■*...
M*.
t
1
JS?
0.
/,/
• ©
Vh
!
%
Over a period of many years our Fine Art
Gallery has built up for itself a considerable
reputation. It has sold antiques, paintings,
etchings, framed pictures, colour prints, old
china, old glass, old silver, Sheffield plate and
many other delightful objets d’art et de vertu.
Its activities include the purchase and sale of
more MODERN GOODS, if of high class and
in good order and condition, such as the
followmg: —
CHINA AND GLASSWARE
GRANDFATHER CLOCKS AND
OTHER TIMEPIECES
ELECTROPLATE AND CUTLERY
PICTURES
BRIC-A-BRAC
STANDARD AND TABLE LAMPS
ORIENTAL AND VALUABLE CARPETS,
RUGS AND OTHER ARTICLES
• FINE ART GALLERY-
FOURTH FLOOR
LISTEN TO A NEW SERIES OF "TALES"
SPONSORED BY OUR FINE ART GALLERY
"Tales of a Connoisseur"
STATION 2GB AT 3.45 P.M. EVERY SUNDAY
Sunday, 30th July: "Old Glass"
This interesting new series will feature dialogues
between The Connoisseur and a Questioner.
The Talks are interspersed with delightful music.
RNTHONV HORDERNS
FAMOUS LOW PRICES
PHONE: M 2401 (DAY AND NIGHT)
BOX 2712 C, G.P.0., SYDNEY


THE JAP BARGE
By “STANDBY.”
THE Supply Officer looked down at
two bare feet, long, brown and bony.
“The least you could do,” he said,
“would be to wear a pair of shoes.”
Lofty grinned. “What’s bitin’ you to-
day, Major?”
The major was not amused. Of the
varied collection of fishermen and odds
and ends of civilians manning the small
craft under his control, Lofty was his
biggest worry. “Why don’t you either
grow a beard or shave?” he added.
Two things stood in Lofty’s favor. You
could load his little craft down to the
waterline, give him instructions to deliver
the cargo at a certain point on the coast
and rest assured that, come hell or high
water, Lofty would deliver it. Secondly,
of his crew of three, not one man ever
had a word of complaint.
The major lowered his eyes to avoid
Lofty’s amused stare and began search-
ing through his papers.
“There’s a new order coming into force
in this area,” he said. “Small ships’ per-
sonnel on coming ashore will conform
to the order of dress for all troops. Shirts
will be worn with sleeves buttoned to the
wrists. Long trousers will be worn on
all occasions. You’d better take a copy of
it aboard and see that your crew read it.”
Lofty stuffed the copy into the pocket
of his shorts without even glancing at it.
“Oh, Gawd! ” he groaned. “This place
is getting too flamin’ civilised for me.
When the heads move in it’s time for me
to move out.”
“If too many ‘heads’ and too much
civilisation is all that’s worrying you, ’
answered the major, “you’ll be pleased
with your Sailing Orders tonight. That
cargo of rations you’re taking on has to
be delivered in Buna tonight.”
Lofty was stirred. “Buna! ” he gasped.
“Whatcher mean. Buna? Buna ain’t
fallen yet. Do I have to deliver the flam-
in’ rations <o the Japs?”
“Don’t worry about that, Lofty. We'
had word today that our chaps would
be in possession by nightfall. You may
be able to find out how to get in from
the Navy. If you can’t you’ll just have
to use your wits. They tell me there’s
an old Jap barge stranded on the beach.
The Japs used it as a jetty. You’ll go
alongside it and make fast. There’ll be
a fatigue party to take your lines and
get the rations off.
“That’s all, Lofty,” he concluded.
“Good luck.”
ABOARD the Jane, when the skipper
informed his crew of their night’s
destination, the cook summed up: “Oh,
well, we’ve had a fair trot so far and we
can’t expect all the good luck. But I
hope to Gawd that major knows what
he’s talkin’ about.”
At eleven o’clock that night the Jane
rounded the cape into the new waters.
The engineer and the cook were asleep.
Lofty had the wheel and Bert, the deck-
hand, Was squeezed into the corner of the
tiny wheelhouse in a vain effort to dodge
the rain.
“Five mile from the Cape,” Lofty an-
nounced. “That should take us about
three-quarters of an hour. The Navy
bloke reckons it’s a sandy beach at the
far end of the coconut plantation. He
says we ought to be all right if we
keep about half a mile offshore till we
come to the old barge and then go
straight in. Blast this rain. Don’t
it ever do anything else but rain in this
dam’ country?”'
Mournfully Bert shook his head.
“We’ll be flat out finding anything to-
night,” he said. “We’ll have to be closer
in than this to find them coconuts.
Lofty.”
Lofty poked his head out of the wheel-
house. “Gripes,” he said, “it’s thick,
ain’t it? Better wake the other two and
tell Joe to slow her down a bit. I’ll run
in a bit closer and you and Len can keep
your eyes peeled. Sing out if you see
anything that looks like coconut-trees.”
While Lofty edged the Jane in towards
the beach Joe, the engineer, throttled
his engine down and squeezed himself
into the corner vacated by Bert.
“Bonzer night, Lofty,” he remarked
sardonically. “We’ll be lucky if we don’t
clout a reef before we’re in.”
Lofty agreed. But it wasn’t the
thought of reefs that was worrying him.
For the life of him he couldn’t think
what it was. Something was missing.
The coast seemed unnaturally quiet. Ah,
that was it, of course! Quiet.
“Hey, Joe,” he said, “notice we can’t
hear guns tonight?”
Joe snorted. “The major was right for
once in his life. “Buna’s fallen, and it’s
all over bar the shoutin’.”
I OFTY peered ahead anxiously. They
I—’ must be close in now. But he still
couldn’t make out what kind of timber
it was along the beach. If the Navy
bloke was right, they must be about
opposite the plantation.
“Stop ’er, Joe,” he said. “We’ll let ’er
run straight in till we can see somethin’.”
Gradually the Jane lost headway as
she glided towards the beach. They were
now almost within hailing distance of
the shore, but the trees showing through
the steady downpour were unlike any
trees the four men had ever seen. Cer-
tainly the trunks were like palm trunks,
but instead of the big feathery tops
these trunks were topped by a few stiff
bristles. Many had no tops at all.
“Gorblimey,” said Joe, “Artillery.”
The plantation was a wreck of leafless
trunks, uncanny in the wet night. Lofty
was satisfied. This was the plantation
beach, and if he were ever going to pick
up that barge he’d have to keep this dis-
tance offshore and chance the reefs.
“Kick ’er over again, Joe,” he said,
“but just keep ’er goin’ dead slow. I’m
goin’ to poke along steady till we come
to the end of the plantation.” Lofty knew
the risks he was running and accepted
them: If the Jane became stranded on a
reef she would be at the mercy of the first
enemy ’plane to come over in daylight.
If the crew failed to pick up the barge
they might blunder on into enemy waters
and be sunk by a Jap patrol boat. One
direct hit from a light shell would have
scattered her all over the ocean.
Joe was standing at the controls ready
to stop the motor at the first scrape of a
reef. The other two were standing well
for’ard, alternately scanning the beach
and peering into the rainy murk.
A low hail came from one of them.
“That looks like it now. Lofty.”
Joe threw the motor out of gear and
Lofty stepped out on deck and sized up
the situation. After a moment he spoke.
“Yair, that’s ’er. Get the lines ready,
We’ll go alongside port side to. Righto,
Joe. Shove ’er ahead.”
Slowly the Jane gathered headway as
Lofty edged her in towards the stranded
barge. Up for’ard Bert stood with the
headline ready to throw to the fatigue
party. The cook was aft getting the stern
line ready.
Judging the distance to a nicety, Joe
threw out the clutch. By now they were
a bare dozen yards from the barge, but
there was no sign of life on board.
“Must be all asleep, ’ said Lofty, Give
em a shout, Beit. „
"Hey, you on the barge! Take a line.
Hoy, there.
Dm at-. i f ~
BAD a'lenoe from the barge and
then Lofty filled up his lungs and let
out a roar that echoed back from the
trees on shore.
“Hey, you blokes-p-what the ell
wrong with y? Are y all dead or cant
y’ understand plain English? Take this
flamin’ line!”
The answer was both prompt and un-
expected. Several heads appeared, and
an excited jabbering broke out in the
most un-Australian accents the Jane’s
crew had ever heard. There was no mis-
taking them
“Gripes!”’yelled Lofty. “The bloody
Japs! Give ’er the works, Joe.”
Joe did. He slammed in the clutch
and jerked the throttle wide open. Franti-
cally Lofty spun the wheel, praying that
the Jane would swing clear.
As the first rifle shot rang out from
the barge, Bert raced aft to find his mate
frantically tugging the canvas cover off
the gun. The Jane swung clear, but only
just. Her stern missed the barge by a
scant few feet just as Bert and the cook
got their machine-gun into action.
The clattering roar drowned every other
sound as they raked the barge from stem
to stern and threw the badly startled
Japs into utter confusion. Just for a few
seconds the fleeing Jane had things all
her own way. Lofty was heading her
straight out to sea, Joe was below at the
motor, the others at the gun,
But the luck was too good to last,
From along the shore bedlam broke loose
as post after post realised that something
was happening. Machine-guns began to
stutter, their noise half-drowned by the
heavier crashes as the shore batteries
opened up. Jap gunners thought a mass
attack by sea wa§ being launched.
it was the jamming of the Jane’s
machine-gun that saved her. Neither
Bert nor the cook realised that they
could no longer see either the barge or
the beach when the stoppage occurred.
The Japs were firing wildly into the rain,
but so i on g as the j ane kept f rom fi r i n g
enem y wouldn’t know where she was.
Lofty called to his gun crew to lie flat
on deck whi|e he kcpt his craft headed
to sea After about ten minutes the
firing died down and then ceased alto-
Lotty , the wheel over and
£ eadcd for (h * |ace he jud d the inl
shou|d be Joe thrott | ed his motor oun
to norma j S p ee d an d joined the others in
, h |ef , of whedh ’ ouse .
._ , x
Stone the crows! sard Bert. “Wot a
turnup. They didn t seem to want no
rations. Wonder who got the biggest
* n B"t , ff 1 ° r US- ,
They d be flat out, beatin me, volun-
leered the cook. When I joined this
outfit I signed on as cook. I never saw
nothing in me contract about fightin’ the
whole flamin’Jap army.”
VOICING the question in everyone’s
mind Joe asked, Where re you
headin’ for now. Lofty? ’Ome!”
“’Ome! Yair. When we get rid of
these blasted rations. If that flamin’
major doesn’t know which side wants
’em, I do. We’re going back to that little
beach round the point where we’ve always
landed ’em. I’ll bet the mob’ll be waitin’
there, wondering what’s happened to us.”
The “mob” was there.
At 2 a.m. when the Jane’s nose
touched the sandy beach a wet and dis-
gruntled fatigue party clambered aboard.
The sergeant looked sourly at Lofty,
“Gripes, you blokes believe in taking
your time,” he said. “We’ve been sitting
here in this damned rain for hours.”
“Ah,” said Lofty. “We’ve been pickin’
daisies, we ’ave.”
THE STOCKMAN
By RON D. McFETRIDGE.
I HEARD Father stamp past our bed-
room into the kitchen just as dawn
was breaking. He was in a temper,
too, because he slammed the back
door with a bang that shook the house.
My brother Jack sat up in his bed on
the opposite side of the room and huddled
the blankets around his shoulders to keep
warm,
“Gripes,” he said, “was that Pa?”
“We’d better get up,” I said, “or he’ll
raise the roof.” I was already trying to
find my trousers in the darkness.
We found Father sitting on the back
steps lacing his boots.
“What are you standing about gawking
for? Can’t you see the bull’s back in the
stackyard again? D’you want the blasted
thing to eat the whole stack before you
get a move on?”
He went to the stables and brought
back the stockwhip.
“It’s all right, Dad,” said Jack; “you
won’t shift that bull.”
“We’ll see,” said Father, coiling the whip.
Jack ran in the horses. Pa caught
Flight, the little station-bred, fiery-
tempered chestnut. She had plenty of
speed, and her grace and flowing lines
were a delight to the eye. She led quietly
enough to the stables, but started to buck
when Father put on the saddle. Mother
was watching from the back door.
“Surely you’re not riding that thing?
You’re too old,” she called.
Pa was red with the exertion of putting
the saddle bn.
“I’m not dead yet,” he shouted,
“Women! ” he said to us in a deprecating
tone. He filled his pipe and struck a match.
“Once,” he said, “I was a stockman on
a western Queensland cattle-station. Those
were the days. Spent weeks in the saddle.
On many a night I’ve galloped through
the scrub trying to head off the leaders
of a stampede. You had to have your
wits about you then or good night!”
Jack said he supposed a man could
forget how to ride, and Pa looked at him
as if he wasn’t sure what Jack meant.
THE bull was a big, red, white-faced
Shorthorn, showing many scars of
battle with man and beast. When we
arrived at the stackyard he was making
short work of the small heap of hay
which was all we had left to feed our
cattle during the winter. As we
approached the bull looked up and gazed
at us belligerently with red-rimmed eyes,
then reached up and pulled another sheaf
of hay out of the side of the stack as if
in defiance.
“My God,” said Father. He tied Flight
to a post, uncoiled his whip and climbed
through the fence into the stackyard.
“Look out!” shouted Jack. “He’ll go
you.” Father looked a bit nervous, then
advanced confidently. He said:
“You don’t want to show you’re
frightened. You want to stare them out.”
Father advanced towards the bull,
trying to stare it out. The bull did not
even raise its head, but went on eating.
Father was five yards away. He raised
his whip.
Suddenly the bull rushed him. Pa
dropped the whip, jumped backwards and
fell over the fenco into the horse-trough.
He climbed out, swearing. His hat had
fallen off and there were straws in his hair.
The bull was exactly where it had been
before, eating as if nothing had happened.
It eyed Father, reached up, pulled out
another sheaf, and the side of the stack
came sliding down.
“My God,” said Father. “You wait.
I’ll cut the blankard’s throat.”
Jack said “There’s a pitchfork, around
the other side of the stack. You might
be able to get up behind him with that.”
Pa, keeping his eyes on the bull, sidled
around to the far side of the stack and
picked up the pitchfork. The bull was
eating quietly, pausing every now and
again to pull down another sheaf. Father
was barely a yard from the bull’s rump
when he raised the pitchfork and let
drive. The bull snorted, swung around
and charged. Father saw the bull com-
ing and attempted to run, but fell over
the pitchfork against the side of the stack,
knocking down some more hay.
The bull, thinking this was a new form
of attack, stopped, eyed Father, who was
frantically trying to get clear, then ambled
towards the fence and tried to break
through. Part of the fence collapsed, but
the bull withdrew and went further along
towards the gate, where he got into the
green wheat.
Father sat up, spitting hay and epithets.
“Run! Head the blankard off,” he
shouted, “while I go around by the gate.”
We ran to head the bull off, but were
careful to keep well away from him.
Pa took Flight down through the gate
and presently came past us at a gallop.
He made a grand sight then, crouched,
low on the horse’s back, his hat gone,
with the whip in his hand. Flight looked
grand, too, at a gallop, with her long
tail flying out behind her and the
rhythmic beat of her hooves sounding in
our ears.
After a while the bull came back,
frothing at the mouth and blowing badly.
Flight was sweating slightly, too, but
seemed as fresh as ever. We secretly
admired Father, sitting there so loosely
in the saddle.
“There you are, boys,” he said proudly.
“Easy as winking. He’s done for now.
He’ll give us no more trouble, I’ll wager.”
We put the bull in the stockyard and
went down to the house for a drink of
tea. We could see Mother was worried,
for Father hadn’t ridden for a long while.
AFTER lunch when we went out the
stockyard fence was broken and the
bull was heading for a patch of scrub in
the hills. Pa swung into Flight’s saddle
and set off at a gallop to bring the bull
back, but it reached the scrub first and
disappeared.
Father didn’t come back till dusk.
During the afternoon we heard the crack-
ing of his whip and sometimes the thud
of hooves. Often, too, we heard him
shouting.
Our sister was cooking the tea when
the dogs barked and we heard a horse
coming towards the gate. We let down
the sliprails, and presently Father came
walking up, leading Flight. B6th were
dead tired. Flight’s legs were badly cut
about and she was in a lather of sweat.
We took off the saddle and put a rug
on her, then bathed her legs with warm
water while she was feeding. She kept
nuzzling us as we did so ; she had had a
hard day.
Father was sitting by the stove drink-
ing hot soup when we went inside. He
gave us a tired smile.
“Well, boys, you won’t see that bull
again, anyway. He might have tricked
other men, but he met his match today.
He did not wait up for tea that night,
but went straight to bed.
NEXT morning the bull was back
again, and all the cattle were eating
what was left of the stack.
Father came outside after breakfast
and sat on the step in the sun.
Jack said “The bull’s back. D’y’ want
the horses run in?”
Pa knocked his pipe against the step
and held the bowl to the night.
“Aw, I don’t think so,” he said. t
gave the bull a pretty good pounding
yesterday. Better let him have a teea
He’s doing no harm here, anyway.


The Bulletin
Vol. 6S—No. 3363.
Wednesday, July 26, 1944.
THE GIRL WHO SAID YES


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper
, “Australia for the White Man”
Directors:
H. K. Prior J. E. Webb
P. H, Prior David Adams
HEAD OFFICE: 252 George Street, Sydney;
Box 252IBB; 'Phone 87971.
Victoria: Newspaper House, 247-249 Collins
Street, Melbourne.
Queensland: 239 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
VVesthalia: 33 Barrack Street, Perth.
New Zealand: Nathan’s Buildings ( opp.
G.P.0.), Wellington.
London : 1 Hare Place, 47 Fleet Street,
London, E.C.4.
ONE WEEK OF WORDS.
In his last speech to his nation, racked
by civil war, the doomed Lincoln said
“The progress of our arms, upon which
all else chiefly depends, is as well known
to the public as to myself; and it is, I
trust, reasonably satisfactory and encour-
aging to all. With high hope for the future,
no prediction in regard to it is ventured.”
Mr. Curtin, meeting the Parliament
which has sat so seldom, and for which
powers equal to those now possessed are
demanded, for use or abuse after the
war, was copious where the President was
concise. He plunged into a long review
of strategy, operations and war efforts
which, as an Opposition M.H.R. pro-
tested, contributed nothing to the know-
ledge of any member on either side. His
speech was not a bad effort, as speeches
go ; but take away the old stuff and the
pious aspirations and the padding and
there was little left.
In a passage which did not lack feel-
ing, the Prime Minister referred to the
achievement of the British people as “one
of the marvels of the war.”
They have thwarted an invasion by a great
and powerful Continental foe. At the risk of
their own defence, they have conducted
campaigns overseas and are at present en-
gaged in the greatest one of all. They have
maintained command of the sea over a large
part of the globe and reduced the sub-
marine menace. They have conducted an
air offensive in Europe. They have pro-
duced immense quantities of munitions and
supplies, not only for their own require-
ments, but for other members of the United
Nations as well. To achieve all this, the
British people have cheerfully accommo-
dated themselves to a high degree of aus-
terity in their living conditions. I am sure
we have the greatest sympathy with them in
the new perils from the air that they have
been called upon to endure.
These new perils and the others, more
frightful, which Hitler threatens may, with
the serious losses which a Continental
war on two fronts involves and the in-
cessant strain, affect Britain’s capacity to
take a full part in the war against Japan
when Germany is beaten. British man-
power at the outset of the war with Ger-
many, now nearly five years old, was
only twice as much as that at the dis-
posal of the Dominions, in which female
population nowhere preponderates, as it
does vastly in the United Kingdom. But
Mr, Curtin did not suggest it as a possi-
bility that Britain’s desire to throw all
its forces against Japan might outrun
capacity. He quoted what Mr. Churchill
had said to him of the British contribu-
tion to the defeat of Japan:
Though we might have to begin in a
small way we intend to pour all our forces
into that struggle to which we are pledged
by honor and fastened by interest.
And towards this consummation, he
was told by Mr. Churchill, “large and
powerful” British forces “will become
available” this year, “the planning of the
whole British effort” being meanwhile
“vigorously pursued.” His own convic-
tion, based on what he learned from Mr.
Churchill and from Mr. Roosevelt and
Mr. Mackenzie King (“we welcome the
assurance of Canadian co-operation”), is
that “when the full weight of the British
and American land and air forces is
brought to bear, the Japanese will be as
decisively defeated as Hitler.”
Of the war against the other enemy
Mr. Curtin said “The primary aim of the
United Nations is the destruction of the
German forces, and this will be unrelent-
ingly and remorselessly pursued.” Of
Australia’s contribution to it, he said,
briefly but understandably, “I was able
to visit some of our squadrons in the
United Kingdom, and expressed to them
the pride of the Australian people in the
part they are playing in the war in
Europe.” It has been a very fine part,
from the Battle of Britain to the Battle
of Normandy, with the struggle against
the U-boats and the bombing of Ger-
many and occupied Europe in between ;
but while no one would take a particle
of credit from the gallant lads concerned,
many of whom have laid down their lives
—casualties among Australian airmen to
March 31, totalled 9461, Mr. Drakeford
has said —it necessarily falls far short of
Australia’s effort against the Central
Powers in the last war. Then, out of an
estimated male population of a little
more than 2,500,000 —about a million
less than in August, 1939—331,814 were
overseas or in training camps on Nov. 1,
1918. Losses were 59,330 killed, 152,171
wounded and 4084 prisoners of war.
In 1918, taking ground troops only,
Australia had five divisions in the line in
France and the equivalent of another—
four brigades of Light Horse —in Pales-
tine and Syria. All covered themselves
with glory. Of Monash’s men Captain
Liddell Hart, after referring to “the
symptoms which preceded the collapse
of the Russian, Austrian and German
armies, as well as the decline of the
French and Italian armies,” has written
that “the best fighting force in the fourth
year of war was, by general recognition,
the Australian Corps.” Of the state of
Britain at the end of hostilities, the same
authority has written: “None of our
wars has left us so exhausted ; our moral
and material resources were drained to
an extent that weakened our policy
throughout the succeeding generation
and thus brought us into the present war
in an enfeebled condition and most dis-
advantageous situation.”
These statements appeared in a
recently-issued book. Why Don’t We
Learn From History? so they must be
fresh in the minds of Britons, already
warned by General Smuts to prepare for
a vast redistribution of power in Europe
and for a straitened financial future.
(“There is nothing left in the till.”) Nor
can Britons and Americans whose in-
terest or inclination it is to study Aus-
tralian war policy and developments —
and there are a good many about—be
ignorant of Mr, Ward’s animus against
Britain or his repeated argument (worthy
of the Portuguese in their 1918 form)
that Australian war policy should aim
at doing the minimum of fighting and
making the maximum of money.
As recently as February 10 this Min-
ister, darling of the Left-Wing brother-
hood, attacked British policy in India
and British behavior during the cam-
paign which ended at Singapore. He
alleged that “the military class in that
theatre of war spent the bulk of their
time at cocktail parties, and were in a
semi-drunken state when they should
have been attending to their military
duties,” pronouncing the dark captivity
of our Eighth Division —characteristically
described as “some of the best of our
man-power”—“the result of that out-
look.” And, with self-satisfaction oozing
out of him, he harked back to his atti-
tude at the beginning of the German
war, when he proposed that the defence
of Papua and the Mandated possessions
should be left to the handful of white
men of all ages resident there, and pro-
posed, Mr. Curtin standing aside to let
him, that the Defence Act be altered to
prohibit their being defended by called-
up men from Australia.
Shortly after the outbreak of war hon.
members on this side and I pointed out
that it was unwise to denude this country
of its man-power, because by doing so we
were actually rendering a disservice to the
Allied cause. At that time hon. members
opposite were clamoring for the dispatch
overseas of a number of divisions of Aus-
tralian troops. We then pointed out that
the most effective role Australia could play
in the war was that of the great supplier
to the Allied Nations, 'and that we should
devote our efforts to building up supplies to
that end. That view has proved to be correct.
Mr. Curtin did not support these loath-
some sentiments, but he did not dismiss
the author. And although he could
scarcely have moved through Britain
without being conscious of the disappoint-
ment inevitably felt at the absence of
Australians from the armies arrayed
against Germany, when little New Zea-
land is so nobly represented, he-did not
try to explain this —er —“Labor principle”
in the speech delivered last week. Neither
did he say for Australia, as Mr. Churchill
said for Britain, that he would pour “all”
its “forces” into the fight against Japan.
On this subject he exuded generalities.
There is a minimum fighting strength
below which Australia will not go.
There is also a maximum strength for the
Australian forces beyond which they cannot
go, and it is the balance between these limits
which the Government is seeking to fix.
There can be no early abatement of our
concentration upon the struggle.
The sacrifices which our fighting men
have yet to make, the devotion which they
have yet to proffer
It is, however, sound policy that from
time to time there shall be a reassessment.
I have arranged for steps to be taken to re-
allocate the man-power resources of Australia.
There is a fighting contribution which this
country should make, and will make, until
the enemy has been completely defeated.
There are, however, leeways in the eco-
nomic life of Australia which we should
commence to overtake.
The strength of our fighting services has
been the subject of a mutual understanding
with our allies.
This will enable more, but not unlimited,
man-power to be allocated to the eco-
nomic services of the nation.
But he did not go into details, and left
no impression that he had a plan. News-
papers declared that “about 50,000” men
were to be released from the Army.
Hutchinson, M.H.R., suggested that only
the three great A.I.F. divisions, brought
up to strength, would be used in active
operations against Japan. The Melbourne
“Herald” gave this as the Opposition
view, while conjecturing on its own
account that “four divisions with the
necessary corps troops” would be em-
ployed. Dr. Page advised the Govern-
ment to prepare a force, composed of
a brigade from each of four divisions, for
“the final assault on Japan.” But the
Prime Minister refused to be drawn.
In actual fact, no legislative business
other than a United Nations Relief and
Rehabilitation Bill, which had a first read-
ing, was submitted to the Parliament
which sits so seldom and which, it is
alleged, will be hamstrung after the war
unless the powers now possessed are con-
tinued. There were only address-in-reply
debates, which lasted four days in the
Senate, as days are counted at Canberra,
and five days in the House, making the
total since July 1, 1943, 34 days and 42
days respectively. On the Opposition
side plenty was said about the martyrdom
of the returned soldiers and others,
alleged Australia - Firsters, who were
arrested and held for many months with-
out being tried or even charged ; about
the prevalence of licensed pimping and
spying; about the new unauthorised
addition to the Tenth Commandment
(“Thou shall not covet thy neighbor’s
....wife, nor his servant, nor his maid,
nor his ox nor his ass, nor anything that
is his except his income, and thou shall
make that the subject of an anonymous
letter to the Taxation Department”);
about the craven crawling to strikers on
a union-right-or-wrong basis, even when
their anarchy threatens the war effort;
about the egregious mess that has been
made of food production and control and
the prevalent squandermania—exhibited
at its worst in the use of public funds
without a Parliamentary vote to advertise
the Labor case for the referendum.
The various counts of the indictment
admitted of no defence, but there was the
familiar recourse to bluster. The worst
example was furnished by Mr. Calwell,
who bombasted out an intention to spend
“whatever is sufficient to enable the case
for the referendum to be put to the people”
with the words “We have authority to
spend money on the war effort, and this
is part of the war effort.” A daring asser-
tion of “Labor principles” but very reveal-
ing. The referendum itself may be con-
sidered a campaign of a war, the only sort
of war for which Labor has any bent or
has had any training—a war against the
part of the nation which rejects its assump-
tion of infallibility, its European socialism,
its surrender to the outrages of union bosses
and mobs, the deadly materialism of its
attitude to ths booze and gambling inter-
ests, its return to old tyrannies in new and
hateful forms and the heartless and gutless
provincialism it has shown in two wars.
A Mr. Mountjoy from Swan (W.A.)
sorely embarrassed Mr, Curtin by blither-
ing that “the Government” had, by “its
majority in both Houses, been given in-
structions to hold the referendum.”
Looking round for the majority in the
House on the fourth day of the debate
the Prime Minister found only seven
members present, although there are 49
Labor Ms.H.R. He was obliged to ask
for a quorum. “Half an hour later,” the
report said, “the House was again almost
empty, and the bells had to be rung
again.” From this disgraceful anti-
climax it is easy to see who will exercise
the powers to be imposed on the people,
if they are credulous and pliant, by dint
of the expenditure of their own money,
and how little protection they can expect
from any Labor majority.
Plans for the Guilty.
Almost at the same time, while all the
world wondered, Tojo and most of his
Ministers lost their places and Hitler
nearly lost the number of his mess.
It would be unwise in either case to
jump at the conclusion that the enemy
is on the point of cracking, but for us
any news pointing to division in high
places, whether it takes the form of the
peaceful deposition of one dictator or
the attempted assassination of another,
is good news.
The possibility, however remote, of
predominant peace parties emerging may
be considered. Should it become a proba-
bility or an actuality, neither guilty
nation will find the Allies ready to wipe
out old scores.
Two significant statements were made
in London directly referring to German
use of the flying bombs, which has
brought about a situation to which two
British Ministers have applied the term
“serious.” “The Germans’ introduction
of such a weapon,” said Mr. Churchill,
“obviously raises some grave questions.”
Under-Secretary for War Lord Croft said
that there had been “one, effect only—
passionate determination to see this thing
through to a complete and abiding vic-
tory. The recurrent scourge of German
bestiality will be eliminated for ever.”
Up to now, though there has been a
vast amount of unofficial discussion —
ranging from a “soft peace” that would
leave Germany practically intact to a
“hard peace”—there has not been any-
thing official of the same definiteness as
the plans for Japan. This might be ac-
counted for by the fact that different sets
of Allies are involved in the two cases.
and that the three involved in Asia have
generally more in common than the three
involved in Europe.
Meeting in Cairo, Mr. Churchill, Presi-
dent Roosevelt and Generalissimo Chiang
Kai-shek apparently had little trouble in
reaching a clear-cut agreement on the
treatment of a beaten Nippon. There
may be variations before it is all over,
but it was there agreed that Japan would
be shorn of all its ill-gotten gains, not
only those of the present war but of
other wars as well, along with the vast
network of Pacific islands handed over as
mandates after the last war.
Up to this point the programme for
Japan does not materially differ from
that intended for Germany, as far as this
last is known. One striking difference is
in what appears to be intended for these
respective Axis countries themselves. Dis-
armament and temporary policing and
controlling have been mentioned as in
store for both. Nobody has yet sug-
gested any dismemberment of Japan itself,
but this has been one of the liveliest
topics of discussion in regard to Ger-
many. The often well-informed “United
States News” has stated that “the Ger-
many of the future is certain to be
trimmed down, and she may be cut up
into 20 or more pieces.”
It seems to be now taken for granted
that Austria will certainly be separated
from Germany, which to the Germans
would amount to dismemberment. Also,
it is expected that most of East Prussia
will go to Poland and the rest of it to
Russia, which would be definite dismem-
berment, not only in the German view,
and about as certain a fuse for future
war as could be set. It has been stated
also —by the “United States News” —that
“the Rhineland will probably be made
independent, or else given to France.”
Another big difference in what is so
far known of the plans for Germans and
Japs is that nobody other than the re-
doubtable Colonel McCormick has so far
suggested hanging Jap war leaders. There
has been hardly any mention at all of any
list of Jap war criminals. With regard
to Germany the list is saiid to run into
tens of thousands. The Hitler gang itself
can be taken as doomed men. The
possibility of their escape to neutral coun-
tries has been mentioned, but it might
well be doubted if there is a single neutral
or any other sort of country that would
be prepared to fight for its established
international rights on such an issue.
Nor is there any Asian parallel to the
Russian plan to use as much of the Ger-
man army as the Soviet requires for re-
construction labor. Russia can forward
this intention because the Soviet is not
bound by the Geneva Convention cover-
ing treatment of war prisoners. Britain
and America are. The English-speaking
nations could not use a defeated German
army as forced labor, even if they wished
to do so —not that the Germans haven’t
themselves given precedent enough for it.
Yet another difference is in the matter
of reparations. Regarding the Japanese,
it appears to be accepted that relieving
them of all possessions or conquests other
than their own mainland islands and
their demilitarisation will be all that will
be required. The damage the Germans
have already caused in Europe prob-
ably could not be completely made good
by the Germans in centuries. Even so,
the Russians and other war-damaged
countries are said to be preparing to
insist on reparations in kind.
In payment, the Russians will ask that
German goods and equipment be sent (p
Russia and that Germans be put to work
rebuilding the highways, bridges, railroads,
towns, factories and homes their armies
destroyed. The £160,000,000 Russia asked
of Finland gives an idea of the size of the
reparations she will ask of Germany.
The British, for their part, have already
taken, and are now taking in a more
savage form than ever, enough of Ger-
man ruthlessness to excuse the most ex-
treme feelings of harshness towards the
Germans. Yet “it is doubtful,” the
London “Observer” has said, “whether
we have an interest in a humiliated, em-
bittered and vengeful Germany.” Mr.
George Ridley, as chairman of the British
Labor party, has stated: “We do not
believe that hostilities should be con-
cluded with a treaty of vengeance or
revenge.” “To blot out Germany from
among the nations of Europe, the
“Times” has declared, “would be neither
practicable nor morally acceptable to the
civilised world.”
In spite of the burning detestation of
German oppression that fills Europe at
this moment, it is still axiomatic, even witn
her victims, that Germany cannot be otner
than an important member of the Euro-
pean body politic and economic; and tnat,
while the firmest measures must be taxen
to prevent aggression, Germany cannot
be allowed to become a cancer at the neai
of the European organism.
It is with these and a body of'such
views expressed up to now as bacK-
ground that the statements ot Mr.
Churchill and Lord Croft on the flying
bombs take on a special significance.
They suggest a grim hardening or feeling
towards Germany ; certainly a strong re-
inforcing against any softening of al-
lude towards that country, either in
war while it lasts or in the final settlemen..


PLAIN ENGLISH
Cities and States.
Australian statistics receive only belated
publication nowadays; witness the
appearance on April 26, 1944, of the Vic-
torian Year-Book for 1941-42. Even so
the Year-Book contains figures charged
with a world of significance for politi-
cians and reconstructors.
The area of Greater Melbourne is
125,926 acres. That of the rest of Vic-
toria is 56,119,734 acres, and, taken by
and large, it is the part of the Common-
wealth most favored by nature. Yet
these are the saddening population figures
for 60-odd years—census figures except
those subsequent to 1933:
Greater Remainder
Melbourne. of State.
1881 .. .. 282,947 578,619
1891 .. .. 490,896 649,192
1901 .. .. 496,079 704,991
1911 .. .. 593,237 722,314
1921 .. . . 782,979 748,301
1933 .. .. 991,934 828,327
1934 .. ..1,000,000 837,490
1935 .. ..1,008,300 834,723
1939 .. .. 1,046,750 839,606
1940 .. ..1,076,700 841,960
1941 .. ..1,137,000 815,153
1942 .. ..1,152,000 817,977
It is explained in a footnote that “the
boundaries of Greater were
redefined in 1929.” Previously it had
been reckoned as “an area within a radius
of 10 miles from the Elizabeth-street post
office.”
The fact remains that there has
been an unhealthy growth of population
in the Big City, while the rest of Vic-
toria has obviously not even held its
natural increase. Yet, except for a Labor
interregnum of 24 hours or so, Victoria
has had a Country-party Government
since April 2, 1935, and there has been a
vast expenditure in the last 20 years on
electrical undertakings, water conserva-
tion, irrigation and cldser settlement.
Actually Melbourne had no representa-
tive in the Ministry during the eight years
which saw its population grow from
1,008,300 to 1,152,000 and that of Rest
of State decline from 834,723 to 817,977.
Of course, Victoria is by no means the
only part of the Commonwealth in which
the Big City has become bloated at the
expense of Rest of State. Perth has
more than doubled its population since
1911, and at the end of 1941 230,000-odd
people were clustered on its 122,240
acres, whereas them were 239,000 or so
in Rest of State —more than 975,000
square miles. In Adelaide at the end of
1940, while 330,000 people squatted on
102,978 acres, only 280,000 or so could
be found in Rest of State, practically
380,000 square miles. With the develop-
ment of Whyalla by 8.H.P., this dis*
parity has been made less dreadful, and
Whyalla is an augury of hope fof
neglected ports.
Queensland, with (at the end of 1942)
353,590 people in Brisbane out of a State
total of 1,036,479, has much the best-
distributed population. And it is certainly
not without significance that Queensland
is the only mainland State which has
never surrendered to the One Big Port
superstition and that it had far and away
the best employment figures during the
depression.
"Democracy" at Work.
A cat gets out of a bag:
A week or so before the session, so-called,
began in Canberra Senator McLeay, for the
Opposition, sought information on the truth of
reports that, about May last, the Government
had approved of the provision tof up to £lO,OOO
a week to pay idle workers in Government
factories at Lithgow, Orange, Bathurst, Wel-
lington, Forbes, Dubbo, Mudgee, Cowra,
Parkes and Portland (all N.S.W.).
On July 13 Munitions Minister Makin stated
that idle workers were being kept on be-
cause “new orders for Australian munitions
might necessitate a resumption” of the pro-
gramme, that the Government “did not desire
to disperse an established and efficient labor
force which it might later have to re-create,”
that “by being employed [?] at the munition
factories the workers concerned were actually
being kept more accessible to the man-power
authorities.”
In the April, 1944, issue of “Labor News”
Thornton, the Ironworkers’ boss, told how the
matter of retrenchments in western N.S.W. fac-
tories was dealt with: “Protests were ignored
until finally we had to threaten to take drastic
action. This brought results and, following dis-
cussions between Messrs. Holloway and Makin
and Bros. Yates, Meehan (A.S.E.) and myself in
Canberra, and myself and leading officials of the
Man-power Department in Sydney, agreement
is now possible. But the moral is that this
stage could have been reached without any
trouble if the Man-power authorities had con-
sulted the union first and had treated the
workers of the western district as human beings
instead of like a lot of cattle.”
Comrade Thornton was wrong. The moral is
that when union bosses crack the whip Labor
Ministers jump to it.
Meantime, on the authority of Mr. Forde
as Acting Prime Minister, about 40.000 men
are urgently needed for food production and
other industries.
Naturally, Mr. Makin sees no reason why
Government munition factories, “the property of
the people,” should be the “medium of profiteer-
ing and excessive charges” by being sold to
private enterprise after the war.
"Yah! Too Slow!"
At least one American writer, Henry J.
Taylor, of the Scripps-Howard chain, got
pretty good advance information, date
excepted, about the Invasion. Extracts
from an article published on May 20 —
17 days before the landings;
The public is thinking of D-Day. Re-
sponsible army and navy officers are think-
ing of a land battle to come much later.
Hitler has two kinds of forces facing us:
defensive units and offensive troops. The
first group are, for the most part, second-
class personnel. We can land and break
through them by using assault forces.
Hitler’s other force, his offensive troops,
young, battle-toughened and mobile, must
be held in the rear for a long time. It
would be fatal to put them into action too
soon. So, military officers explain, while
the public is cheering, the German
will be waiting. The test of whether we can
beat Germany in 1944 can hardly come for
60 or 90 days after our beachheads are
established.
Then there was a reference to “the
battle of western Europe, the battle on
which our victory over Germany in 1944
can depend.” Taylor allowed that “if
the Germans know they cannot defeat us
they may not permit us to fight it.”
The German General Staff may elect
to “stall” by fighting only strong rear-
guard engagements in an orderly step-by-
step retreat to the homeland. In that event,
our cheers over the quick flushes of vic-
tory close on the heels of D-Day could
easily give way to some dissatisfaction.
They did, very early in the piece. This
was mentioned by snarling “Soviet com-
mentators,” quoted by Mr. Jimmy Ald-
ridge, and by Colin Bingham in a dis-
patch from Normandy to “S. M. Herald”:
Complaints about the slowness of progress
have brought renewed emphasis here on the
great difficulties of the campaign.
Our armies are in difficult terrain and
face a determined defence. The gigantic
strides of the Russians have inevitably
caused comparisons. Officers who deprecate
references to the slowness of the Nor-
mandy advance discount' suggestions that
the velocity of the Russian advance is due
to the presence of inferior German troops,
but ask that' there should be full apprecia-
tion of the different character of the two
campaigns.
To ask this of Russia-Is-Always-Right
correspondents and commentators is to
ask the impossible. Although none of
these gentry ever sees “the gigantic strides
of the Russians” and knows no more of
what is going on in eastern Europe than
what the combatants choose to assert in
mixtures of information and propaganda,
and though even the evidence of the map
may be deceptive, the whole crowd is
blithering harder than ever and making
false and invidious comparisons.
And the notion that only things flat-
tering to the Russians —all so helpful to
Communist propaganda that, it is a
wonder the Corns, spend so much on in-
ferior forms —may be published, while
any whipster may say what he likes about
the Western Allies, so holds the field that
the presence of whole Russian battalions
and regiments in the Hitlerite army in
Normandy was either dismissed in a two-
line par. or not mentioned at all.
The campaign in Normandy was splen-
didly planned, is in the hands of com-
manders (all services) of great and proved
ability and is being fought with skill and
tenacity. It is “difficult,” and it would
have been a hundred times as difficult
had it been attempted two years ago. Yet
“Australians” were among the shouters and
spouters who “demanded” it then. When
the Japanese had the Malay States, Burma,
the Philippines, the Dutch East Indies
and a great part of Australia’s island pos-
sessions, together with air parity and naval
superiority; when the Germans were
deep into Russia and claiming to have
sunk 16,000,000 tons of Allied shipping;
when the British imperial forces had been
driven out of the Balkans and Libya and
were painfully defending Egypt and
Malta against a still undefeated German-
stiffened Italy—in almost the very dark-
est hour of the war the Reds put on in
Sydney a Second-Front show, called a
May Day procession, and Minister Ward
was among the marchers.
Honor to the British war leaders, and
above all Mr. Churchill, who stood firm
against the world-wide Second-Front
propaganda, in their own country hurled
at them by Lord Beaverbrook and his
boo-boo boys, when yielding to it would
have meant certainly a swift and terrible
massacre, and probably the loss of the
war.
AN AUSTRALIAN’S HOME.
"A factor which will militate against a Yes vote in Queensland at the referendum is the fact that organisations and industrialists are subjected to the interference of
Pat the referrendum is the fact that Peeping Toms." C.G. Fallon, of the A.W.U. director of the referendum campaign in Queensland
"Be careful what you say, dear-there MAY be someone about"


[For Referendum matter, J. E. Webb and
David Adams, 252 George-street North, Sydney,
are responsible.]
sdf
Budge Refrigeration
Equipment
FOR EVERY ESSENTIAL INDUSTRIAL
APPLICATION
Pictured on the fcft is a twin-cylinder, pressure-lubricated
ammonia compressor which we manufacture in eight
sizes up to 60 tons capacity. Plants for air-conditioning,
ice-making, cold storage, etc. _
Illustrated on the right is a Budge Evaporative Cooler —a self-contained,
forced-draught evaporative spray tower (modified cooling tower). Its
field of application includes air after-cooling, de-humidifying, com-
pressor and engine-jacket water cooling—in fact, all types of water-
cooled industrial processes.
JAMES BUDGE PTY.. LTD.
Refrigeration Engineers,
McEVOY STREET. ALEXANDRIA, N.S.W. ’PHONES: LA5034-5-6
sd
Established 1890 , 'Agents and Service Mechanics in all States of the Commonwealth
Making
your will?
fsd
When appointing a trustee and executor to your will, nominate the
Permanent Trustee Co. It is the best and safest course of action.
Enduring and unprejudiced, and with over 56 years’ experience in
such work, the Company will administer your estate with impartial
judgment, protect your assets and dependants, and fulfil your wishes
to the last letter. Write or, if in Sydney, call and discuss your position
with one of our senior officers, confidentially and without obligation.
PERMANENT TRUSTEE CO. of N.S.W., LTD.
23-25 O’CONNELL STREET, SYDNEY.
POLITICAL PONINTS
If Curtin talks with mineowners and
union bosses could get coal, there would
be mountains of it stacked in every State.
Another series was announced last week
as a sequel to a strike in Richmond Main
—this time against the Miners’ Federa-
tion, which was “enforcing the code.”
“The Government,” Dr. Evatt said in the
House, “is solidly behind the Miners’
Federation.” “How far behind?” asked
Archie Cameron.
Beasley is back from the U.S.A. burst-
ing with information and suggestions.
For one thing, he wants “an increased
appropriation” for “one central control,”
so that “Australia’s overseas news and
information bureaux will know the Gov-
ernment’s mind on statements or decisions
made.” In respect of coal it would be
a case of the unnecessary in pursuit of
the non-existent.
Harrison made a telling speech on the
Australia First cases. Only snatches of
it were reported; but that is the rule
nowadays. One of the unreported fea-
tures concerned telephoned threats to
counsel for some of the men who were
held so long without being tried or
charged. “The Attorney - General,”
Harrison said, “should make an immedi-
ate inquiry and inform the House whether
it is true that such threats have been re-
ceived.” If the inquiry was made the
House was not informed of the result.
The kapit-alistic press is so kind to
Curtin that it turns its blind eye on his
blunders. He made a very bad one on
the subject of a Cameron-Menzies tele-
phone talk which, as the member for
Barker protested in his forthright way,
had been “tapped and a typescript made,”
The P.M. scolded Cameron for speaking
over an army ’phone (being under
army orders at the time he was required
to do so), and in the process revealed
knowledge of what was said:
A circuit of that description should not
be used for the conversation that is under
remark.
And this a day after Justice Clyne,
taken from the Australia First cases,
opened and adjourned an inquiry into
the allegations of Hannan, K.C., that his
’phone talks had been spied on and his
letters tampered with. When Hannan
first made them Labor couldn’t get over
being thought capable of such things, or
of permitting them, when it is so high-
minded.
Curtin had hardly finished rebuking
Cameron, M.H.R., when Fallon, of the
A.W.U., until a month ago president of
the A.L.P, executive and now director
of the Yes campaign in Queensland,
explained why it was lagging:
My union cannot safely write, telephone
or telegraph messages Organisations and
industrialists are subject to the interference
of Peeping Toms.
He was supported by Hanlon, the Queens-
land Deputy-Premier, and by a somewhat
astonished Menzies, in Queensland to put
the No case.
Henry A. Wallace is to have only one
term as Vice-President. Though he led
on the first ballot at the Democratic Con-
vention, with 429 votes to 413 for Senator
Truman, his support fell away so rapidly
that at the end it was 1100 for Truman
and 66 for Wallace. The President him-
self was chosen on the first ballot with
1086 votes, 89 going to Senator Byrd and
one to James Farley, sometime chairman
of the party and P.M.G.
Crofts, of the A.C.T.U., and Thornton,
of the Ironworkers, got a mention in
one of the news budgets issued from the
U.S. Office of War Information, and a
sentence used by the chronicler may have
aroused wild hopes among Tory imperial-
ists and capitalistic spiders who read it;
Starting from New York City, the dele-
gates will swing individually.
The wild hopes, if cherished, were shat-
tered by succeeding words, Crofts and
his Communist associate were to “swing
individually through the vital production
areas from New York to San Francisco,
and from Atlanta to Montreal.”
Wholesale theft of grog, a debauch, the
casting adrift of ship’s boats, the throw-
ing of hand grenades into a motor-boat
and threats of violence to members of
the ship’s company were features of a
very nasty affair in an Australian war-
ship which was dealt with by naval court-
martial. An ordinary seaman, aged 22,
was found guilty on nine charges and sen-
tenced to 18 months; another, aged 25 —
apparently the ringleader, though his
counsel denied it —was convicted on 12
charges and sentenced to 12 years. An-
other rating, treated as a hostile wit-
ness, testified that he had heard the 12-
years’ man say “I have got some blokes
LAUGHTER IN THE COURT.
CHIEF JUSTICE CURTIN ; “The judgment of this Court, all my learned brothers
dissenting, is that the referendum proposals are in no way complicated, obscure
or difficult."
on a list and I’ll blow ’em up” ; and the
minor criminal pleaded that “there was
discontent in No. 9 mess—the men re-
sented the way things were going in the
ship,” This startling outbreak should lead
to another probe. All the services have
been exposed to incessant Communist agi-
tation, and so far it has gone unchecked,
the “it-can’t-happen-here” spirit having
prevailed.
Pigott, the forger of the Parnell Letters,
dished himself by spelling “hesitancy”
with an e, and repeating the bad spelling
when asked to write down the word by
the great Charles Russell. Kilpatriek, the
, , . ’ ,
naval saboteur, gave himself away by
wrfimg threatenmg letters and signing
them The Gohst. That was how he
spelt it when tackled by a police sergeant
as to the authorship of the threats.
H. H. Bell, chairman of the Melbourne
and Metropolitan Tramways Board,
admits q loss of £lOO,OOO on “our bus
operations” for the year to June 30.
Nasty reading for Sydney, where the
Government scrapped a lot of tramlines,
built with perfectly good loan money and
never paid for, and substituted bus ser-
vices. Just when fuel imports were
becoming a problem, too.
Inspired by the success of the Liberal
and Country League, which returned the
Playford Government, and feeling that
the more or less (mostly less) loosely
allied Nationalist group is rather hope-
less, Westralian C.P. delegates propose to
change the name of their organisation to
the Country and Democratic League and
to give it a new platform. The idea is
to run candidates for all constituencies,
instead of restricting them to country elec-
torates. It is not at present clear whether
Federal members, if any (there are none
at present), may be free to walk into the
party room of their choice, as McLeay
and Archie Cameron are, but if the plan
goes through that may come.
Noting the swearing-in of the Senators
elected and re-elected last year, a friendly
paper said “This is the first Parliament
since 1917 in which Labor has been in
full control of both Chambers.” Actually
its House majority disappeared in
November, 1916, in which month Hughes
formed his stopgap Conscription Minis-
try, which made way in February, 1917,
for the Hughes-Liberal fusion, called
Nationalist, and the Senate Labor
majority itself disappeared that year. At
the double-dissolution election of Sep-
tember, 1914, 31 Labor Senators were
elected, nine more than at present. By
July, 1920, only one Labor Senator was
left, Jupp Gardiner, and he remained
alone for two years ; then a nominee,
J. V. MacDonald, arrived from Queens-
land. For nearly two Great War years
there were 41 Labor Ms.H.R. After the
May, 1917, election there were 22.
A foreseen problem arrived at Bris-
bane last week. Mad with drink, got
with disgusting ease —Booze has great
privileges in this country —a U.S. para-
trooper beat and kicked to death a female
partner in the debauch ; and, court-mar-
tialled, he was sentenced to be “hanged
by the neck” until he was “dead.” But
there is no hangman in Queensland ; capi-
tal punishment has been abolished since
Labor took charge in 1915.
Broken Hill is a union town, and
strange things happen in union towns, as
in union States, The place has no per-
manent water supply, and the dry spell
this autumn made the water shortage
worse than ever; so the Barrier Industrial
Council called a one-day strike as a
starter of weekly one-day strikes, to be
staged until the Sydney Government in-
state a big pumping plant on the Darling
(a capricious stream) and pipes water to
the Hill. Cahill, the Sydney Minister for
Works, was in a great state of mind
about it, and was promising something
or other when it was further announced
that there would be more trouble unless
three N.U.R. men who had worked on
the day of the strike and got a train away
to Sydney were attended to. Sydney, for
its part, would willingly present the Bar-
rier with its No-water Board, if that will
help.
Hawking the referendum proposals, Dr.
Evatt told the South Australians that his
Government had spent more than
£120,000,000 in their State, and would
spend heaps more before the war ended,
what with clothing factories at Port Pirie,
Gawler, Wallaroo and Murray Bridge,
the Wallaroo wheat distillery, flax de-
velopment and heavy-bomber production
at the G.M.-Holden works. Whereupon
the Croweaters might have rushed ofl
determined to give a thumping “yes”
vote —if they weren’t so dashed thought-
ful.
The stage is set and the same old char-
acters are on it: The Wicked Ogre dis-
guised as Private Enterprise and mixing
a brew of unemployment and starvation
for after the war; Dr, Evatt as the Good
Fairy, waiting to wave the magic wand
and bring Utopia to earth as soon as the
audience gives the word. But the audi-
ence seems to be a bit bored with the
ancient plot and reluctant to give the
word.
Although at least two Ministers talked
expansively of an early return to the
butter ration of half a pound a week, it
is to remain at 6oz. “till further notice.”
Perhaps they are giving up hope for the
referendum.
Brief forecast of U.S. repatriation
measures from the “United States News” ;
There will be assurance of one to four
years of education for every qualified
veteran. Large numbers will go to school
and colleges will boom.
Loans, interest-free the first year, will
help veterans to start a business, buy a
home, buy a farm, get a new start in life.
Size of individual pensions will be 15 p.c.
higher than in the past.
There will be free medical and hospital
service for millions of veterans and their
families.
Special unemployment insurance pay-
ment's will be large.
A bonus comes later. Its size will vary
from $10,000,000,000 to $35,000,000,000
spread over 10 years.
Not a word about increased Federal
powers. Though Federal powers are if
anything less in the U.S.A. than in Aus-
tralia, neither the Democrats nor the
Republicans propose any increase, and
neither will.
A Left-Wing Labor member, trying
to get some change out of Churchill,
asked him whether the Allies “envisaged
the possibility of the German workers
establishing a Communist regime” and
were “prepared for such an eventuality.”
The reply being “Yes, sir,” the Left-Wing
Labor member pursued his advantage, as
he thought:
L.-W.L.M.: May we take it that the
British Government won’t do with Com-
munist Germany what it did when the
_Bolshevists emerged in Russia?
Churchill: I would not like to go into
this matter, but I am quite sure German
criminals have no right to escape merely
by embracing the Communist faith.
Previously Bevin, the Minister of Labor
and National Service, was asked whether
he had r ead a “Daily Worker” article on
the ’orrible treatment pf called-up youths
drafted into the coalmines. He said he
had, and it was “a tissue of lies; but
that’s the Communist way of ‘helping’
the war effort.”


fydcuw 0
ROYLO
Royal Resferve Port
PERSONAL ITEMi
The N.S.W. Democrats, late U.A.Ps.,
late Nationalists, late Liberals, are look-
ing for a new chairman and a new secre-
tary, Godfrey Hill having resigned for
“health” reasons and H. W. Horsfield for
“personal” reasons. Hill is a Sydney
accountant, Horsfield was secretary of
the National Club and Association before
the U.A.P. took him over in 1932. He had
a great run of success during the
when Lang was performing ; in fact, the
U.A.P. fell into the habit of letting John
Thomas win its elections for it. Times
have changed.
John Hereford Portus —former
R.A.A.F. flight-lieut, with a D.F.G. —
has been given the job of Commonwealth
Conciliation Commissioner in S.A. Son
of G. V. Portus, Adelaide Uni.’s Profes-
sor of History, he was educated at Sydney
Uni. and Oxford, and was admitted to
the Bar in England in 1939. He’s 31.
Tom Bell, whose pictures occupied the
biggest slice of wall space at the exhibi-
tion of munition workers’ art at the
Myer Mural Hall in Melbourne, was a
country lad who invaded the southern
Parnassus in pursuit of his muse and
worked at various jobs to enable him to
study. In Max Meldrum’s school he
learnt the rudiments of painting, then
managed a trip to Europe to look at the
Old Masters. On his return he held
several exhibitions before the war effort
landed him in a munition factory. A
shop steward discovered they had an artist
among them, an exhibition was arranged,
fellow-employees caught the spirit of
emulation and a workers’ art club was
started, with Daryl Lindsay’s benediction.
This has burgeoned into a State Council
due to launch an organisation under the
name of the Encouragement of Art
Movement.
Two things make Edouard Borovansky’s
eyes light up: good work by one of his
dancers and mention of fish. Frith
caught him in the midst of a three-hour
morning rehearsal at Sydney Royal. With
the orchestra rehearsing in the distance,
Ballet Master in Favorite Pose.
stage-hands bumping scenery about, tem-
porarily unneeded dancers sitting on the
floor, lovely backs against unlovely walls,
or limbering-up with skips and twirls,
understudies repeating in the background
the movements of the principals, the
company dancing “Giselle,” Boro-
vansky, swathed in a dressing-gown,
sat smoking in a chair, and con-
trolling the whole show in a voice
that varied from a gentle pleading
to an amiable roar. If a hand was out
of place, rehearsal stopped ; if a dancer
was six inches out of position in a tab-
leau, it had to be done again. The re-
hearsal proved what was already obvious
from the performances: that successful
shows are made out of knowledge of the
theatre, love of it, hard work and atten-
tion to detail. After the rehearsal a
Bulletin man wanted to ask Borovansky
about his training at Prague, his associa-
tion with Pavlova, the* ballets he has
created and the prospects of a general
revival of the theatre in Australia. But
the conversation got round to the fishing
village of Hastings, out of Melbourne,
where Borovansky has a cottage, thence
to certain trout rivers and inevitably to
the superiority of the dry-fly over all
other forms of lunacy—all of which had
nothing to do with the theatre, except to
make it clear that, in spite of the Euro-
pean background, Bofovansky’s is de-
cidedly an Australian ballet.
Over the national station on Sunday
night Australians heard the beautiful
speaking voice of Judith Anderson, who
has taken a spot of leave from Broadway
to entertain troops here ; and it is a great
pity that a generation which has had
scant opportunity to see first-class
actresses of the spoken theatre will not
see her on the stage again. Born in Adel-
aide, Miss Anderson made her debut at
the Sydney Royal at 17 as Stephanie in
“A Royal Divorce.” Three years later
she went to New York, playing small
parts in stock companies—the best of
apprenticeships. At 22 she had risen to
leading roles, and since then she has been
one of the acknowledged leaders of the
New York stage. Her Nina Leeds in
“Strange Interlude” is still regarded as the
best that has been done. Miss Anderson
toured Australia in 1927, and as the wife
in “Tea for Three” she gave evidence of
her flair for comedy. An avid reader
with a humorous outlook on life, she
finds relaxation in riding. When she
arrived in Sydney, her pastoralist brother
John was on hand from Yenda (N.S.W.)
with his three daughters to welcome her,
and there are another brother and two
nieces in England. Her
mother lives in Holly-
wood.
“Hamfat”: Leo Du
Chateau was a proud man
when the Wellington
(M.L.) Repertory Society
—he started it 20 years
ago announced that it
had closed its membership
roll at a thousand mem-
bers (there was a big wait-
ing list), had a solid
balance in the bank and
could look forward with
confidence to achievement
of its ideal of a Civic
Theatre. The society has
poured money into com-
forts funds, besides look-
ing after its numerous
members On active service;
and it has during the war
supplied Wellington with a
large slice of its entertain-
ment. When the move-
ment was an infant, Du
Chateau, in Sydney on
playing - rights business,
called at The Bulletin
office to see fellow-En-
zedder Johh Barr and my-
self. We wished him luck
over a pot, but pointed out
that Repertory was a
struggle even in Sydney.
“That’s all right” was his
confident reply. Du Chateau, retired now,
keeps a fatherly eye on his prosperous
offspring. He has a son in the N.Z.E.F.
and another in war work at Wellington.
The National Theatre on Eastern Hill,
Melbourne, which has high dreams ol
being the nucleus of an Australian
theatre, and which a while back invaded
the opera field with a performance of
Flotow’s “Martha,” has Lennox Brewer
as its chief pillar in the operatic division.
An astute producer—he made local his-
tory by staging the Australian opera
“Alaya”—Brewer conducts on occasion,
and when he isn’t conducting lends to
the show a first-rate tenor. He learnt
the producing business largely as an extra
with visiting Italian opera companies,
but he was a pupil at the Albert-street
Con. of Fritz Hart, now in'Honolulu.
Seeing that Surgeon Commander R.
Woolcott is the chap responsible for those
drawings of navy men which have
adorned this page from time to time, he
won’t mind the liberties Frith here takes
with his visage. It happens to be one
that any caricaturist on earth would greet
with whoops of delight. The present
scribe’s reaction to it was “Billy Grime,”
and the surgeon commander admitted that
he was often taken for that vast-jawed
scrapper when William was at his fistic
top. As well, Woolcott once went shop-
Surgeon-Commander WOOLCOTT,
R.A.N.
ping in London with his wife, who was
intent on getting a new dress. He noticed
a certain amount of whispering going on
amongst the staff and overheard “20 per
cent.,” which was followed by the half-
whispered remark to him “Of course,
there’ll be the usual 20 per cent, cut for
the profession.” A bit regretfully, he had
to inform them that he wasn’t Jack Hul-
bert. A native Sydneysider, Woolcott
represented Grammar at cricket, foot-
ball and running before going on to the
Uni. to take his med. degree, thence
straight to the R.A.N. He’s 43, but
doesn’t look it by a good stretch of years.
For close on five years a Scot named
John Davis has broadcast every Sunday
in Sydney a session called “Church in
the Wildwood.” Also, from 2CH, he
runs a weekly show of the lore, legends
and melodies of his native heath
for fellow-countrymen enthusiasts. As
well, he frequently preaches in a Jack-
of-all-trades capacity from churches of
various denominations, and he’s a vice-
president of the United Preachers’ Assoc.
Away from these interests, he’s the Mur-
doch firm’s advertising manager. He
changed his address from Scotland to
Australia at the end of the 1914-18 fight.
M.L, Rhodes scholar for 1929 Dr. E. E.
Bailey is now Deputy-Director of the
Middle East Supply Council, with head-
quarters in Cairo. An Otahuhu (Auck-
land province) man, he returned to M.L.
when the scholarship ended, but hit out
for London a year later to commence a
law practice. While he’s on national ser-
vice his practice in London is being car-
ried on by a firm he worked for prior to
hanging out his own shingle.
Dead at Ringwood (Vic.), at 95, Cap-
tain E. T. Miles, a man of many experi-
ences. Born in Hobart (Tas.), he ran
away to sea at 14, and served in tea-
clippers on the China-London run. His
wanderings took him to Canada, where
he was employed by the Hudson Bay
Company. Having gained his master’s
ticket at 21, he returned to Tasmania,, to
become in process of time Master Warden
of the Hobart Marine Board, Tasmanian
Assemblyman and Minister Land,
Works and Railways. In 1905 Miles
bobbed up in Siam prospecting for tin,
and in 1906 he got the concession for the
Tongkah Harbor Tin Dredging concern,
which had extracted £2,000,000 worth of
tin from Malayan and Siamese soil be-
fore the Japs went mad. He had two
treasured memories of London. There he
heard a Dickens reading and listened to
Disraeli and Gladstone in the Commons.
Awarded a D.S.O. for a fine job in
the Islands, W. A. C. (Bill) Dale was a
member of the Citizen Air Force, No. 3
Squadron, at Richmond (N.S.W.) in 1926,
one of the first batch of University
students trained at Point Cook to fly for
the C.A.F. An engineer, on com-
pleting his four years he transferred
to the reserve, and was appointed engi-
neer to the Wingadee Shire (Coonamble).
In spare time he qualified as local-gov-
ernment clerk and as an architect. He was
an alderman, a group Scoutmaster and
consulting engineer to a couple of other
shires. Called up on the outbreak of
war Dale was placed in the works and
buildings branch at Air Board until mobile
works units were formed to go north.
At 76, John R. Bridle has returned to
the N.S.W. Education Department, from
which he had retired for 16 years ; he takes
over the school at Middle Arm, Goul-
burn. John R. is a son of William Bridle
(born at Macquarie Fields in 1827, and
dead in 1922 at Tumut) and of
Martha Miles; Stella Miles Frank-
lin, the writer, belongs to the Miles
family. William was the first man to
blaze a track over the formidable Tal-
bingo Mountain to Talbingo station.
Mrs. John R. Bridle is a daughter of
former champion sculler Jim Stanbury,
and herself dips a strong oar in t}ie upper
reaches of the Wollondilly with her hus-
band.
News of the greatest sorrow that can
befall a father was broken to E. K. White,
leader of the Liberal Democrats, when he
was about to deliver a Legacy Club
address in Sydney—his only son Baden,
aged 20, had been killed in action. White
delivered the address, Baden, a pilot-
officer, was shot down in the Mediter-
lanean ; he had gone straight from col-
lege into the R.A.A.F. He inherited his
patriotism and gallantry. E, K. White,
noted for his turf as well as his political
interests, is an M.C. of the last war,
remembered by 4th Battalion veterans
for his incessant curiosity as to what was
going on in no-man’s-land and his serene
contempt for the enemy to be encoun-
tered there.
Raden Loekman Djajadiningrat, who
directed the Department of Education in
the N.E.I. Government organisation in
Australia, died last week in Sydney.
Under orders, he left Java with a small
group of key men two days before the
Japs overran the last Dutch stronghold
there. A descendant of an old Sundanese
family of regents in Bantam (West Java),
and a smiling, witty man with a fine head,
he was educated in Holland. His last
work in the Indies was to submit a bill
for improved facilities in university edu-
cation to the'People’s Council. For some
time he was president of the Nationalist
party, “Pasundan,” in Java, and as such
served on the West Java Provincial Coun-
cil. He was a writer of some distinc-
tion ; his last book, From Illiteracy to
University, was published recently in New
York.
“M.”: Herbert Thompson, librarian at
the Sydney Blind Institute, has had an an-
niversary, .Forty years ago, knowing that
he would himself become blind, he tra-
velled across the world to fend out all
that could be done for the blind in the
way of reading and education. The Braille
library, with its 11,500 volumes, is his
creation, and he contributed a big share
to the change from when begging was the
blind man’s recourse. Also he has taught
hundreds to read Braille and to use the
touch typewriters.
Into the silence:
In Brisbane, at 79, Mick Ryan, shearer,
station owner, company director and Q.T.C.
committeeman. The Catholic Church made
him a Knight of St. Gregory.
In Adelaide, at 65, J. A Rankine, chairman
of Adelaide Racing Club, pastoralist and good
sportsman.
In Adelaide, at 82, Jack MacKenzie, one-
time S.A. wicketkeeper and inter-State foot-
baller. In the place-kicking days he was dan-
gerous as a goalshot from anywhere inside half-
way.


Society
publisher stumping up a big advance
royalty,
♦ * * ♦
“Adelaide”; The Punishment doesn’t
often lay the Crime such long odds as
in a cake heard here lately. Charge, sell-
ing a bottle of milk for 4d., a halfpenny
above the price fixed by National Secu-
rity Regulations. Fine, £l5, plus £2 12s,
costs; odds of well over 8000 to one.
* * * *
“Avon”: Maoriland is perturbed over
a hyphen. It is placed by the Govern-
ment Printer between “New” and “Zea-
lander” whenever he has to indicate a
denizen of the Pig Islands. Government
Printers never explain anything, but it
has been said on that official’s behalf that
the crossbar is put in so that a resident
of the Dominion may not be mistaken
for one newly become an inhabitant of
Zealand. Opponents of the innovation
deride the precaution, which, they say,
has not been found necessary by New
Yorkers, New Englanders and New South
Welshmen, not to mention New Cale-
donians, New Brunswickers and New
Mexicans. All the same, The Bulletin
showed prescience when it scrapped the
ungainly double-barrelled cognomen and
substituted the more euphonious and
much more appropriate “Maoriland.”
* * * *
“Blue P.”: Just when the wordy war-
fare about an Australian national anthem
had died down that wise old bird Prof.
*
“D.A.”: I like my tea neat, and get
amusement out of the behavior of those
who can’t “take” the milk out of powder
that is now the only sort available m
most Sydney restaurants. On a cold
morning lately I was having a cup with
that veteran of the Inky Way (I nearly
wrote “Milky Way”) Bill O’Carroll. A
skilful movement of the hand that almost
baffled the eye, and Bill had dived
through his scarf, overcoat and coat
somewhere into the recesses of his waist-
coat and produced a phial of the genuine
stuff delivered that morning by the
milk-o. With the satisfaction of one who
had outwitted circumstances, Bill diluted
his tea. Since then I have noticed restau-
rant tea-drinkers, mostly women, produc-
ing small bottles from handbags, paper
bags and pockets. Whisky-drinkers, it
seems, are not the only ones whose
palates have shuddered as a result of the
war.
* # ♦ ♦
“El Mad”: No doubt poets should
have some rhyming license (B. 12/7/’44),
but should they be as licentious as are the
song-writers who cater for crooners? An
example:
Pore goil, pore goil,
She’s only got a coat
That’s made of squoil.
Who but a crooner could get away with
a girl-squirrel pairing?
* * * *
“Cauboy”: Crowds hundreds of yards
long have been queueing for Ormandy’s
concerts in Melbourne. Why is he a
draw? Personality alone won’t do it,
any more than talent alone. There was
once a much-billed violinist-conductor at
one of Melbourne’s pitcher theatres.
Everybody knew he was nine-tenths show-
man and one-tenth musician. After he
had played some comparatively easy solo
he would stagger off apparently ex-
hausted, Then the manager would come
out and announce that Signor Robus-
terino was so exhausted by his immense
creative effort that he couldn’t play his
second number. Nobody believed that,
but Robusterino’s cheek was amusing,
and the audience liked the show he put
on. Ormandy puts no show on. He
walks straight to the rostrum, flips a
finger and bang goes the first roll of a
Brahms symphony. He endows the
music, not himself, with importance, and
the audience likes that, too.
“U9L”: Amathea, by Henry G.
Lamond, published as a serial by The
Bulletin, was brought out in book
form by Angus and Robertson. It just
failed to make a second edition, and its
author regarded it as a flop. Published
by Morrow, New York, under the title
Kilgour’s Mare, it sold over 5000 copies
in the first six weeks, and has been sell-
ing steadily ever since. And there has
been a special (Army Service) edition of
50,000 copies for the U.S. forces. Another
book by Lamond, The White-eared Out-
lawhas been accepted by Morrow, the
“ I gave twenty pounds for him two years ago.”
“ What's ’ at? Two pounds for him twenty years ago ?”
Walter Murdoch weighed in with a sug-
gestion that, since we have added the
Southern Cross to the Union Jack, there’s
nothing to prevent our adding an Aus-
tralian stanza to “God Save.” But
no mere fill-up stanza; to be worthy
of Jhe music it must be simple, sincere
and dignified. Looks like a rare chance
for some Australian bard to get his work
into an imperishable niche.
« * * •
“G.D.” wanted a rubber stamp:
Our date stamp, seven years old, broke one
of its bands last week, and one of the staff was
sent out to buy another. She returned without
it, having been told at the shop that a permit
was required. So I called at the W. 0.1. (chief
permit issuers). Man said he didn’t think a
permit was required, but would make inquiries.
He returned with the information that they
didn’t know anything about it, but perhaps the
Rubber Control Department had something to
do with it. Tramped to R.C.D. (at the other
end of the city) and told girl at “Inquiries” I
wanted a permit for a rubber stamp. “Rubber
stamp? 1 suppose that wouldn’t come under
‘Tyres and Tubes,’ would it?” she asked. I
said I shouldn’t think so. “Perhaps it would
be under General Rubber Goods. Try 7t'h floor,
718; take centre lift.” On the 7th floor 1
struck a man and a girl. I repeated to the girl
my request for a permit for a rubber stamp.
“A man here wants a rubber stamp, Mr.
Smith!” Mr. Smith said he thought 1 should
go to No. 716. Went to No. 716 and was
greeted by girl at desk. Repeated my request.
“Just a minute,” she said, and disappeared
behind a door. A male official returned with
her, and to him I repeated my request.
“H’m, rubber stamp! I believe there was
some order about that; just wait a minute.”
On his return he informed me affably that no
permit was required. 1 said the shopkeeper
would not supply without' one. “Oh, well,”
he replied, “try some other place until you
get one!” I then returned to the shop, but
was told I must have a permit. I informed the
chap behind the counter that this was not
so. He didn’t stop talking for five minutes.
The gist was that they bought' these stamps
from the manufacturers, who could not replace
their rubber requirements without a permit for
everything they sold. Suggested he iron it out
with them. Telephone conversation for 10
minutes ensued. No, the manufacturers coulun t
do anything about it, as they had to protect
themselves, and if I was in business I would
know what a constant trouble these various
controls were, etc. So 1 suggested the shop
might be able to repair the band on my stamp.
“We could do it,” said the bloke, “but oh,
hang it all, I’ll give you a stamp.”
« * * *
“Bernard Hackshaw”: Why all this
astonishment at a hoax played on editors
caught up in a fashion? Such hoaxes
occur every day in places where the arts
are practised people who are superior
to art conventions. A middle-aged couple
bought a house, and on clearing out an
attic found a collection of canvases,
brushes, palettes and paints, the residue
of some artist. On a wet Sunday they
thought they would have a first shot at
painting, and each painted a picture. They
were so pleased with the results that they
sent them to an exhibition of “contem-
porary” art. One canvas was hung and
acclaimed a masterpiece; the other was
rejected, for reasons, no doubt, equally
valid to the judges.
* * * *
“D.G.M.W.”; I always thought Ameri-
can court scenes as depicted by Holly-
wood were overdone, if not outright bur-
lesque, Now I’m not so sure, since read-
ing of the performance of a higher court
“referee” (I don’t know what that is, but
guess at a minor Judge). Hearing a
divorce case, he turned to the respondent
and roared “You, sir, are a rat. In fact,
you’re a filthy rat and a slimy blackguard.
You’re unfit to be a human being at all.”
There was more, and the upshot was that
“the referee recomended the Manhattan
Superior Court to grant a divorce.”
“Bo”: In a current newsreel Marjorie
Lawrence expresses her affection and ad-
miration for Sister Kenny, that “Aussie
soldier,” she calls her, who was fighting
her great battle for stricken children long
before Hitler became an ominous name.
It was fitting that Sister Kenny, who has
had honors heaped upon her in America
that were denied her in her native land,
should be at hand when this splendid
Australian singer was stricken down with
infantile paralysis. Implacable deter-
mination to overcome her affliction is
inherent in Miss Lawrence’s every word.
She is smiling, calm and candid, and when
she speaks of the nostalgia which she and
Sister Kenny shared for the smell of gums
and wattle blossom she carries convic-
tion. And her clear, simple acknowledg-
ment of jier debt to Providence for “help-
ing her to help herself” comes, it is evi-
dent, straight from the heart.
* * * *
“K.G.”: Military authorities in South
Oss are worried over a recruit, G. P.
Kain, of Port Pirie. He stands 6ft. lOin.
in his socks and takes size 13 in shoes.
* * * ♦
“Pip” on parcels from home:
Even if the contents are useless (they often
are) the thought behind them is the thing.
No man is churlish enough to look a gift horse
in the mouth, so nothing is said, but camp
pie, baked beans, M. and V. and tinned fish
are on the “hate” list. Canteens, save in very
advanced areas, have ample supplies of choco-
late, soap, toothpaste and boot polish. Tobacco
and cigarettes are always welcome, but, realis-
ing how difficult they are for civilians to obtain
legitimately, we are rather diffident about
accepting them. Nothing is more truly appreci-
ated than a home-baked cake. Food is plenti-
ful in the army, but the cake for morning
tea and supper is a luxury. Home-made biscuits
and puddings boiled in billies are firm favor-
ites, too. Razor blades are difficult to obtain
and always welcome. Fruit is rare. Unfor-
tunately it is difficult to pack, but a couple
of oranges or apples included when sending a
cake are most acceptable. Many parcels come
to pieces in the post, and careful packing is
necessary to ensure safe and prompt arrival.
One of our blokes once got an intact' bottle
of beer from home, but less fortunate was the
fellow whose parcel from Sydney produced a
pound of lamb chops. They had been ten days
in the post, so the camp mascot was selected as
the best recipient for the gift. Last seen, poor
Fido was racing over the horizon howling.
» * * •
“Strict Veg.”: In Melbourne 30
societies have amalgamated to impress
on Premier Dunstan the necessity for
including in his post-waf programme pro-
vision for an arts centre, with theatres
for the ballet, the drama and music, gal-
leries, libraries, lecture halls and goodness
knows what else. A good idea, no doubt,
but why not a drinking centre? The
city’s drinking habits need improvement
A centre which included all those cul-
tural amenities together with pleasant
cafes set in gardens where citizens could
sit at any time of the day and listen to
good music while sipping their wine, beer
or liqueurs would completely transform
the whole atmosphere of the city and have
a beneficial effect on the morals of the
people.
* * * *
“Cine Ma”: Cabling congratulations
to Metro-Goldwyn-Mayer on the 20th
anniversary of its starting business
in this country, Deputy-P.M. Forde
said: “I think it has been proven
that there is no more valuable medium
than motion pictures for the encour-
agement and fostering of educational
and cultural development.” The claim
has been made, but not proven. If
the movie producers had taken full
advantage of the magnificent medium fate
put into their hands, by this time the
world would have seen on
the screen (a) all the novels
of Dickens done, not in the
tabloid form of Copper-
field and Tale of Two Cities,
but each one complete in
serial form ; (6) most of the
plays of Shakspeare done in
the same way; (c) all the
great operas, especially
those of Wagner —only the
cinema could properly stage
them —performed in their
entirety ; ( d) whole periods
of history in dramatic form
done as die French once did
“Henry the Fourth,” a serial
that ran for weeks in Paris,
packed at every session, and
in which the whole atmo-
sphere of the period was re-
created ; (e) Einstein telling
us about Relativity, Ber-
trand Russell about philo-
sophy, Rutherford about
the splitting of the atom,
Shaw about social problems
and so on. These things
are taught in schools and
universities by commenta-
tors ; why not on the screen
by authorities who could
make them ten times more
interesting? Millions have
been spent in boring us with
lesser matters.
* * *
“Clooter”: My afternoon paper, an-
nouncing the 11 highest-paid Americans
for 1943, places at the head of the list
one Sidney Fleisher, who got 645,000
dollars. His occupation? “Negotiator
for the Authors’ League,” The Austra-
lian writer, gazing spellbound at the
figure, wonders what the authors get.
THE CALL FOR SNOOPERS.
(Dedicated to Treasurer Ohifley and Income Tax
Commissioner Jackson.)
Now, brothers, if you’ve reason or —
What’s much the same —occasion to suspect
Your next-door neighbor as a sad deceiver
Whose income tax returns are incorrect,
If you’re convinced that he should pay a tax on
A lot of details that his statement lacked
It’s up to you to write to Mr. Jackson
And render him .acquainted with the fact.
You have his word you needn’t sign the letter.
Use any pseudonym you chance to know:
Fiat Justitia or, even better,
That good old wheeze Pro Bono Publico.
He’ll welcome news of any dereliction
That helps to put on a defaulter’s pot.
And doesn’t give a tinker’s malediction
Whether the tip’s anonymous or not.
Sneaking, ’tis true, was held a foul and rotten
Game, and sneaks despicable creatures, when
You went to school, but that should be for-
gotten
Now you’re a law-respecting citizen.
Not even so-called “snitching” should be stiffly
Discouraged when it brings the Treasury
beans.
You have the word of Jackson, also Chifley,
That here’s an end which justifies the means.
On to the job whereto these pundits call you,
Your ancient prejudices laid aside,
Safe in the knowledge that, whate er befall you,
You’re never like to be identified.
Whether you score or fail in your endeavor
To make some victim’s lapses manifest,
Your personality will be forever
A secret locked in Mr. Jackson’s breast.
Not all may fight for country, home and beauty
Where serried forces clash and aircraft swoop.
Still, there are other ways of doing your duty,
And who is there too weak or old to snoop !
Here conscious rectitude may glow the warmer.
With beacons such as these your path to mark
Who’d fear to be accounted an “informer
Or what the Cockneys call a “coppers’ nark !
252 GEORGE-STREET, SYDNEY. ANDREE HAYWARD.
THE ANGRY PENGUIN.
It was an Angry Penguin,
Disconsolate, distressed,
That stood upon the foreshore
And beat his downy breast,
For proof he’d eaten something
Beyond him to digest.
He groaned: “Some blighter tossed me,
Asv though he sensed my wish,
Something that I conjectured
To be my favorite dish:
A fish, of course, but —blast him!
Merely a dummy fish.
“By every penguin standard
It looked so excellent
I took it with a feeling
Of gratified content.
And down my eager gullet
It naturally went.
“It seemed a tasty morsel
As down 1 gulped it quick,
Well up to its appearance,
And had I lips to lick
At first I would have licked them.
But now I’m deadly sick.
“No bit of it was dinkum
Except the skin and scales.
The rest was simply sawdust
And shells of whelks and snails
And shoe-peg oats and shavings
And cotton-wool and nails.
He groaned again, as by some
New gastric spasm stirred,
And, stressed by weird contortions,
I caught his final word:
“A cruel bit of legpull
To trick a hapless bird.
N.S.W.
I FORD


“Pawang”: About nine months ago a
Victorian farmer optimistically started
out to buy a bit of land to enlarge his
activities and increase the food supply
of the nation. The other day he dropped
in on his solicitor to see how the nego-
tiations were progressing. The Gent. One
lifted down a massive volume, turned up
a section and pointed to a clause which
stated that sales of such land “are subject
to the conditions laid down in Sub-secbon
(11) para. ( a ) of Sub-Regulation (37) of
Regulation 7 of the National Security
(Capital Issues) Regulations (being Statu-
tory Rules 1939, No. 149) or in para, (a)
of Sub-Regulation (4) of that Regulation
as inserted by Statutory Rules 1940, No.
56 ; or” etc. “Do you know what that
means?” asked the lawyer. “Not the
faintest notion,” said his client. “Do
you ?” “I will in a couple of months if
the Government hasn’t by then thought
up a few dozen fresh modifications,” said
the Gent. One blandly,
* * * *
“Shibli”: The Licensing Trust at In-
verkegville (M.L.) has decided to write
nasty leters to drinkers who “cannot con-
duct themselves in a proper manner.”
They are to be told they will not be served
in a Trust-controlled bar. Presumably
the disorderly ones will have to drink at
The Bluff, where there is no Trust. There
have been other matters to trouble the
bibulous. Cold weather developed a few
days after booze came back to the dis-
trict, and the beer froze in the pipes. The
Trust, it is understood, wrote a nasty
letter to the weather office. There’s a
ray of brightness, however, in the new
dispensation. Seats are provided along
the bar-room walls. Those who want a
quick one are not compelled to sit down.
but the seats are there for those who
want them, a godsend one rarely finds
in non-Trust bars. After this nobody will
dare to call M.L.’s new beer paradise
Inverkegswill.
* * * *
“Wingo”: Thirty-five years ago yester-
day (July 25, 1909) Bleriot made a bump-
ing landing in a field near Dover, having
flown a monoplane from Calais, and the
world acclaimed him as the first aviator
to fly the Channel. Time was 27 minutes,
He collected the “Daily Mail’s” prize of
£lOOO for the feat. Congratulatory mes-
sages poured in from all quarters. One
read “Hosanna for the Peace of the
World!”
* * * *
“Caballer”: Seeing pictures of bearded
jungle fighters reminds me of the days
when Quinn’s Post was, for me, the hub
of the universe. After a month or two
without seeing a mirror, a man holding
a periscope awkwardly would get a
glimpse of himself instead of no-man’s-
land, himself being a lousy, unwashed,
tangle-haired ruffian. After being mis-
taken tor Ned Kelly in the saps leading
up to Russell’s Top I decided to clean up.
The cook lent me a canvas horse-bucket
,m£nr. ~ . . c
half full of soapy water that, except for
rinsing out a few dishcloths, was practi-
cally unused. There is no difficulty about
removing full beards nlentv of
removing lull beams, wim plenty or
hot, soapy water they peel off easier than
the usual one day’s growth. The trouble
“C’mon, you're on a stick of baccy if you get her off!”
I had was later in the evening, trying to
collect my rations from an incredulous
r,i o t nn „ . 1 ,
p a ser § ean f who could not under-
stand now a man who, in his opinion,
would have passed for the twin brother
of W. G. Grace could suddenly material-
ise as a strinlina r>f two nr tbrpp and
twenfl StriPlmg 1 1 th a
f * * *
Craiser”: A veteran viticulturist,
addressing a Melbourne society devoted
to the imDrnvempnt nf Hrinkino and pat-
L 1 a 7 ? 1 -u J
mg standards, eloquently described the
health-giving qualities of wine, and de-
dared that good wines drunk in their
proper succession with thp annronriate
pruper succession with me appropriate
ensues never did anybody any harm, and,
m fact, promoted long life and good
digestion. Then he waxed indignant at
the nation’s habit of drenching its
stomach with pills and potions which
never did anybody any good and were
unpleasant to take into the bargain. There
was sustained applause, and then the
chairman got up to introduce the guests
of the evening. The first was Mr. Blank,
manufacture of an anti-indigestion tablet,
* * * *
“Exseccacorps”: Slouch hats, is it?
Well, let’s get right back to the begin-
ning. The Cape Corps, a regular regi-
ment of South African half-castes {circa,
1820-50), wore the slouch hat as far
back as the times of the early Kaffir
Wars on the eastern frontier of Cape
Colony. That corps eventually became
the Frontier Armed Mounted Police
(Europeans), and was finally renamed
the Cape Mounted Rifles. The old
C.M.R, wore the slouch hat on field
service. The hat was also worn by
“colonial” units in the Zulu War of 1879.
The Bechuanaland Border Police, raised
in the ’eighties, and the Rhodesian
Mounted Police (1893) wore it. It was
regulation field wear for many of
the Cape Colony and Natal Volunteer
Regiments. The First and Second
Rhodesian Native Regiments wore it in
German and Portuguese East Africa in
1915-18 ; and it is now worn by the
splendid native troops from East and
West Africa in the present war. The
slouch hat is not, and never has been,
exclusively Australian. A battalion of
the revived Cape Corps, then helmeted
like the British Tommy (and on the same
rates of pay), was “in at the death” at
Damascus in 1918, and was reported in
the press at the time as “having captured
Square Hill and the first gun of the day.”
* * * *
“Zake”: Announcers were taken to
task recently in these pages for making
Caen “Kong” ; had they stopped at that
they might have been forgiven. But with
the surge eastward I’ve had to interpret
“Kaar-r-aung-taung,” “Teeyee-zoor-zer-
yee,” “Laray-doo-puce” and “Sarngt
La-a-aw.” An air raid in the Paris area
was mentioned while I was trying to de-
cipher the “Kaar-r-aung-taung” one, but
this was delivered in the best Oxford Eng-
lish and not given, as I naturally expected,
as “Par-ee,” spoken with the mouth shut,
I eagerly look forward to the time when
Monty crosses the Hun border; then, sit-
ting beside the knob at news time, I can
listen to my favorite announcer adopt a
deep guttural accent and attempt to
enunciate “Vuppertahl,” “Moolhowsen,”
“Geyserglueetzen” and other Teutonic
names as hideously as the Squareheads do.
* * * *
“Lord Luvus” goes to a concert:
Settling myself somewhat early into my
accustomed seat at the Town Hall, Melbourne,
L^Mlie 'SSllm “SSSS. my bra™ drifted
phrases from the various criticisms in the dailies :
“This magician, original in ideas, versed in
science, and acquainted with the lore of ages”;
The majestic and world-redeeming strain found
rb e audience transported” ; “An intellectual and
a tone poet” ; “Nobody imagined that - any human
being could reveal such extraordinary dynamic
force as he brought to the gigantic finale,
. the lause rolled forth and i obse rved
Mr .‘ Ormandy threading his way through the
orchestra. He Stepped upon the dais, raised a
he wants to take one back with him to the
U.S., there is such an enormous difference be-
other* conductm'asTo ofV adjec-
tival outbursts about them.
* * * *
“Bob”: That fairy story about the im-
bibing of olive oil to keep the “fumes '
from alcoholic liquor rising and fogging
the brain had a vogue among the beer-
swilling, sabre-duelling students of Prus-
sian universities and academies in the
days of Kaiser Bill, “Petermac’s” publi-
can (B. 5/7/’44), if he shared the Teutonic
superstition, must have had rather a dim
idea of metabolic processes. Alcohol is
“ We’ve done our quota of tonsils, so what about removing his
gall bladder?”
absorbed into the blood stream through
the stomach, and then goes to the brain,
where the “fogging” occurs.
» * * 9
“M.K.”: I agree with “Oxmead” that
it is most unlikely that any descendant
of Captain Cook is in possession of the
navigator’s waistcoat. The family is ex-
tinct, In 1762 Cook married a Miss
Batts and became the father of six sons,
three of whom died in infancy. Of the
others, one, James, captain of a ship, was
drowned off the Isle of Wight in 1794 ;
another, Nathaniel, was lost at sea in
1780 at 16, and Hugh, the remaining son,
who was studying for thfe Church, died
in 1793 at 17. Mrs. Cook died in 1835,
aged 93. She had enjoyed a pension
granted by George 111.
» * * *
“F.S.”: If the sponsors of the Aus-
tralian Academy of Art, largely politi-
cians, hoped to see their ewe lamb de-
velop into an Australian version of the
R.A. in London, they must have been
disappointed by the sixth exhibition at the
Melbourne Athenaeum. There was none of
the social and aristocratic splendor of the
English function, where some artists
attend in morning coats and belltoppers
(to be looked down on by the nobility
and gentry for aping their betters), and
a few others turn up in corduroy trousers,
looking as incongruous as a dromedary
Anger and the players played the National
Anthem; then with another gesture he swept
them into a magnificent performance of the
overture t r om “Dido and /Eneas.” Almost be-
fore I realised that the concert had started it
ended, and once more the applause rolled forth
tike peal on peal of thunder. The great con-
ductor waited for it to slacken; then he raised
his hand and in an astonished hush was heard
saying: “Ladies and gentlemen, 1 have a con-
fession to make. I am not Eugene Ormandy.
He is still in Philadelphia. Tm Ern Malley,
one of the numerous band of assistant con-
ductors, and we decided to play this er, hoax,
let us call it—in order to test the musical
appr eciation of You People Down Under.” in
the ensuing tumult I woke up. Mr. Ormandy
was threading his way between the orchestrions
towards the dais. Apparently I had been dream-
Still I couldn’t help wondering whether,
considering that the American conductor was
so impressed by Australian orchestras that
at Flemington. I didn’t see one
tall silk hat. There were no
“problem pictures” (usually the
only problem is why the authors
ever bothered to paint them),
and there were no portraits of
royalty or even of a commercial
knight, though there was a pic-
ture of a horse by Sep Power
entitled “The Aristocrat.” The
crowd was the usual crowd
which frequents art shows in
Melbourne, so there was nothing
to contemplate except the quality
of the art, which was neither
better nor worse than that at
the Academy’s earlier exhibitions. “The
highest value of these pictures lies
not in the fact that they are expres-
sions of individual talent, but that
they are history,” says the cata-
logue foreword. “They portray the spirit
of the Australian nation under war con-
ditions.” The show doesn’t bear out the
claim.
* * * *
“Artie B.”: A popular Sydney delu-
sion is that the climate of Melbourne is
very similar to that of the Arctic regions.
Often one hears at the breakfast tables of
Sydney hotels some poor unfortunate
who has spent a day in the southern city
complaining that it is always raining in
Melbourne or that he had not seen a ray
of sunshine “all the time” he was there.
May a Yarrasider apply a statistical an-
tidote? On records taken over 100 years
to 1939 the average yearly rainfall in
Sydney is 47.3 in.; Melbourne, 26.1 lin.
Days on which rain falls: Sydney, 152;
Melbourne, 140. It’s in the Common-
wealth Year-Book.
* * * *
“Pawang”: There seem to be hundreds
of ‘Housing Commission officials cavort-
ing round the country, but they must be
g o j n g round with their eyes shut. A
Melbourne daily publishes a photograph
of a type of house built by the Victorian
Commission. It is a fibro-cement affair
and looks flimsy, uncomfortable and
utterly unsuited to the Melbourne climate,
At the same time dozens of splendidly-
built old houses with walls of good stone
are being demolished and used for road
gni ngs anc i breakwaters,
* * * *
“G’pa”: July 17 marked the 125th
anniversary of the opening of the first
savings bank in Australia at Sydney. The
’Wales, the first trading bank, had been
in business two years. The opening of the
savings bank was the result of a meeting
of earnest citizens called hy Governor
Macquarie. The minutes show that “they
had long witnessed with sorrow the ex-
travagance the poor settlers, mechanics
and laborers of this colony have fallen
into.” First offices were at Sydney,
Parramatta, Liverpool and Windsor. In-
terest offered depositors was 7-j p.c. Those
were the days!
* * * ♦
“Cauboy”: Joseph Schepsi, the Prahran
barber and tenor singer who staggered
Melbourne by announcing that he was
going to test its musical apprecia-
tion by hiring the Town Hall and
charging four guineas a seat, the same
price as his hair-dos, does things in a big
way. He has decided to offer a prize for
the best Australian ballad, and the award
will be no paltry fiver or tenner such as
A.B.C. offers on such occasions. The
winner will received £2OO and will also
have the privilege of hearing the Schepsi
himself sing the ditty at his next Town
Hall concert,
# * * *
“T.McN.”: There are, perhaps, mild
brawls when Footscray plays Fitzroy or
Balmain St. George, but in South
America players really throw their
minds into it. In a Soccer match in
Buenos Aires a free-for-all among the
barrackers resulted in six deaths and
many injured. “Eat ’em alive. Tigers!”
means something there.
* « * *
“Chevroford”: In his long life of de-
struction Melbourne’s premier wrecker,
Whelan, was probably never closer to
seeing his number go up than when he
was salvaging the remains of the Orun-
gal, wrecked and burned off Barwon
Heads some years ago. Once an Aus-
tralian Army ’plane, perceiving the wreck,
used it for a bit of target practice, and
another time the ’plane of an Ally dive-
bombed and riddled the decks with
machine-gun bullets. The target was
then put out of bounds, on Whelan’s
emphatic protest.
♦ * * #
“Pip” on amusements of the troops:
The programmes dug up for our weekly
picture night would interest an antiquarian.
“San Francisco” is the current attraction, and
in recent weeks we have had “Three Smart
Girls” and “Seven Sinners.” “Forty Thou-
sand Horsemen” is a good old stand-by, and
they seem to pop it on -when all else fails.
Some of the mobile projectors look as if they
had been stealthily removed from museums
in the dead of night. They invariably break
down just where Gable and gal are getting into
a juicy clinch, or at the bit when the bound-
and-gagged hero is about to be eaten by rats in
the den of the Secret Seven. There is some-
times a backlash in the gears which constrains
the legs of the leading lady to dance on her own
head and trunk. Sound effects suffer a similar
dislocation, sometimes racing ahead of the
characters, and at other times dragging behind.
The blonde heroine speaking in a gruff bass and
the burly chucker-out emitting a dulcet treble
are disconcerting. At times the sound cuts out
altogether, and these interludes, added to the
pauses where the operators change the spool,
add a new sort of suspense to the entertainment.
The screen is a piece of canvas slung between
two trees and bellows with the merest breath of
wind, making the players sway drunkenly. But
for a’ that, no five-bob seat in a city theatre
ever gave so much pleasure or was anticipated
half so keenly.


ABORIGINALITIES
“Scot”: “The musterin’ on Hell Hole
was finished,” said Dalby Dick, “an’ the
cattle were stringin’ along behind the
coachers followin’ the narrow-ledge
cattle-pad towards the tableland on top.
Half a dozen of us were riding behind
Bill followin’ up the mob, when at a
widenin’ of the pad Bill dismounted to
remove a stone from his horse’s hoof-
frog. He’d just straightened up when a
scrubber bull came back chargin’ straight
at him. Bill made a grab at the bull’s
horns, and in the flurry of dust and gravel
we could see the bull fall over the ledge
into the gorge below, ‘Missed your hold,
Bill?’ one of the mob sang out. ‘Missed
be blowed,’ said Bill; then he gets up an’
chucks the two horns of the bull after
the carcass below! ”
* * * *
“Arev”; On the day of the Bungaroop
show Bill Jupp wandered around until
he had seen all the exhibits and indulged
in his own private judging. While Mrs.
Jupp went to get a cup of tea Bill de-
cided to look over the sideshows. As
he passed a booth a soft voice ftivited
him to have his palm read. Bill turned
to see a dark-eyed gipsy decked in gilt
ornaments and scarlet frock. Pondering
a few seconds, he entered. The gipsy
took Bill’s hand, churned out the usual
bit of mumbo-jumbo about a letter bring-
ing joy and to beware of a dark stranger,
and with piercing intelligence informed
Bill that he “had worked hard for every-
thing he’d got.” Then she said: “Now
I bless your money. Put it here on the
table.” Bill felt in his trouser pocket and
pulled out several two-shilling pieces. The
gipsy’s hands floated over them, higher
and higher until one hand was between
the money and Bill’s eyes. “Bless this
money and increase it,” she intoned. Then
she gathered it in one hand and passed
it back to its owner. Late that after-
noon, just as they were leaving for home,
they saw the constable taking the gipsy
into custody. A passer-by explained that
“she had been lumbered for trying to
pass some crook two-bobs.” “They’ll
be the ones she pinched from me when
she blessed me money. Mum,” said Bill.
“Thought I’d put some of our collection
to use.”
* * * *
“Sarina”;* The cockatoo’s best feature
as a watchdog is that his ears are keener
even than a dog’s ; no marauding goanna
or hawk can get within range without
our pet cocky screeching a warning. But
he earns his keep handsomely when taken
into a maize patch, his yelling being
enough to satisfy the wild cockies that
everything is O-K. When he. is handy I
don’t need a gun for potting the thieves ;
getting inside point-blank range I can
knock off dozens with a home-made
shanghai.
* * * *
“Gordonian”; “Gip’s”par. (B. 5/7/’44)
recalls the little-known fact that Adam
Lindsay Gordon lost most of his £7OOO
legacy through the cause instanced. He
and Lambton Mount landed 4000 merinos
and 8000 Leicestftrs at Bunbury (W.A.) in
December, 1866. In a few months their
dream of establishing a station was shat-
tered. Most of the mob died from eat-
ing poison weed, Gordon returned to
Robe (S.A.) just in time to be present at
the birth of his only child (Annie), who
died at Ballarat. The body was later
(1919) transferred to Brighton Cemetery
to be reinterred with her father. The
same minister performed both cere-
monies.
* * * #
“Blime’ y : “Y’ know, Dick,” mused
Weary with his back against a log, “I
reckon we’re workin’ half an hour too
“see if one of ’em will sell us her grass skirt.”
long f’r old Stumpie.” Dick leaned on
his hoe to work it out. “Yair,” he said
presently. “P’raps we’re makin’ up on
our morning an’ afternoon smoke-oh.”
“Gripes, surely the cow Couldn’t be that
crook,” Weary sniffed, “Anyway, he
oughter be payin’ us more money, Lettin’
us slog like this on a lousy screw.” “Well,
it’s a fair bit more’n we asked ’im for,”
remarked Dick, “but o’ course he’s gettin’
better prices lately.” “Too right, he is.
An’ who’s helpin’ ’im make it, eh? I tell
y’, the days o’ bosses is gora.” Weary
banged his knee emphatically, “It’s the
workin’ man’s turn ; an’ by cripes we’re
goin’ to get the profits if we have t’ break
every boss in the country. Demand y’r
rights, that’s what I ses.” “Stumpie’s
always treated us white,” Dick said ; “but
I s’pose y’re right.” Next morning the boss
came on the pair smoking in the shade
of the hut, “No, we ain’t workin’,”
declared Weary truculently. “Only come-
back when things is wrong is t’ strike,
see?” The old pioneer climbed off his
nag, “Y’re right, laddie,” he said wearily ;
“dead right. And at the seat o’ the
trouble.” Calmly and deliberately he
planted a boot on the widest part of
Weary’s pants, then, turning, performed
the same office for Dick. Ten minutes
later the pair limped over the ridge on
their way back to work.
* * * #
“Rooster”: Statistics don’t bear out
“Lower Tops T’s” claims concerning the
whip-snake in Tasmania (B. 21/6/’44).
It certainly does catch the unwary nap-
ping, but in order of toxicity it ranks
fairly low. No death has been recorded
from the bite of a whip-snake. Ordinary
ligatures, venesection and, if necessary,
anti-venene more than offset the small
amount of poison injected by the diminu-
tive fangs,
“Colonial Cove”: “Si Anu” (B.
7/6/’44) may be correct in stating that
no case of hydrophobia has ever been re-
ported on the mainland, but at least
one case, fatal, has been known
in The Speck—“ Thomas Bowring, of
Hobart Town, bitten on lip by spaniel
bitch February, 1867.” Possibly it
was this early case that directed the then
colonial Governments towards imposing
lengthy quarantine, not less than six
months, on all imported dogs. With the
advent of the Commonwealth this regu-
lation became standardised, and continues
to protect Australians against the most
dreadful of all diseases.
* * * *
“B. 4”: How would “Spinifex” (B.
21/6/’44) manage to avoid becoming re-
frigerated meat if camped out in the
bitter westerlies of a S.Q. midwinter
unless he had recourse to a healthy
blaze? When, years ago, I was
backtracking stragglers, night often
found me minus nap and tucker.
Before hoppling my moke with the
stirrup leathers and sidelining him
with the surcingle I hunted round till I
found a couple of logs about 20 feet
apart. Hooking the prad’s tail to stirrup
leathers fastened round one end of a log,
I dragged it round to form a V, with apex
facing the wind. Lighting the apex, with
saddle for pillow and cloth over my boots,
I snuggled down and slept warm and
cosy as the logs burnt slowly down on
each side. Nor had I need to join a
stokers’ union to keep things going.
* # * *
“S.G.”: A couple of fellows out of
Bundaberg (Q.) heard of a squatter who
was anxious to find water on his place,
so they presented themselves as dowsers.
picked a spot and declared there’d be
water at 70 or 80 feet. Squatter offered to
pay when the water showed. A bore was put
down to 75 feet without a sign, and things
looked black. The pair surreptitiously
poured a four-gallon tin of rainwater
down the bore, then called his nibs, who
tasted it, excitedly commented on its
quality and gave them a contract to put
down a shaft. They drew a few quid on
account and got busy, hoping to draw
more and to make a getaway at the right
time. At 85 feet water pushed in the
bottom of their shaft and rose to within
15 feet of the top. The squatter weighed
in with a bonus, and the pair, slightly
dazed, made for the nearest pub, each
furiously wondering whether he or his
mate had the divining power.
* * * *
“Betcha”: That horse-sense so generally
believed in doesn’t always work. Take
a nag’s weather sense, I agree that a
bunch of old cattle, used to the
terrain, will often move down from
the high country before the first
snows, but horses never do ; this year
our tractors had to clear a track
in our southern alps area to rescue a
bunch of snow-bound nags. Then again,
I had one horse whose great weakness
was wallabies, and another that was
always looking for snakes. The trouble
I had with that moke! A stick half
hidden in the grass was quite sufficient to
start him in his antics, and if it happened
to lie on a narrow track no amount of
spurring would get the silly brute past it.
A decent hack otherwise, and I missed
him after the day he wandered on to the
tail of a genuine Joe Blake and was bitten.
* * ♦ *
“Chuck”; Dick and Shorty were
mooching across the paddock when
O’Grady’s bull spotted them and charged.
Dick streaked for the fence, Shorty for
a clump of box trees. The bull chose
Shorty, and gained fast. Deciding that
he couldn’t make it, Shorty dived into
some old mine workings that were tun-
nelled five or six feet into the side of the
hill. The bull pawed and snorted at the
entrance, while from the shelter of the
fence Dick pelted stones and yelled in
an effort to call him off. After much
trouble Dick managed to get him a short
* distance from the opening, when out
speared Shorty in a mad dash for the
trees. Sighting him, the bull returned
hurriedly. Dick tried again, but again
Shorty rushed out, bringing the animal
charging back. “Stop there till I get him
further away!” Dick bellowed. The
advice had no effect, for once more
Shorty messed up Dick’s strategic moves.
After a bit O’Grady rode up with whip
and dogs, and the bull was driven off.
“Yair, an’ it would’ve served y’ right if
he’d caught y’,” growled Dick to his
cobber a few minutes later. “Runnin’
out like that all the time.” Shorty swung
round indignantly. “Aw, cut it out,” he
protested ; “there was a flamin’ big tiger
snake in that tunnel,”
* * * *
“Sou’-west”; That boong who had the
possum’s tail fast in a split stick (B.
21/6/’44) was probably acting according
to Papuan lore ; but the same trick, em-
ployed in a different way, has been known
to whites for centuries. Visiting old
George’s onion farm I found thousands
of the big bulbs suspended in his drying
sheds, not one touching its neighbor, thus
obtaining a free ripening without risk of
soft spots and subsequent rot. Light
watfle sapling cut to 3ft. lengths had been
spit almost down. The green onion-tops
were then laid in the split, in and out
each side alternately; then, with the split
full, the end was tied, leaving a loop that
hooked to the rafter of the drying shed.
“That’s how the Frenchmen from Brit-
tany used to hawk their onions through
London when I was a boy,” George
explained.
s*: s£ jfc %
“Esk D.”; Fossicking along Alluvial
Creek old George came on a granite
boulder with leaders of quartz. He took
a sample, dollied it and washed up a few
specks of color. “Be an ounce of gold
in that stone,” he declared. There was
no battery in the district; the boulder
weighed over a ton, obviously too much
for the hand dolly. So George decided
to rig up a spring dolly. A month later
he had the thing far enough advanced
to give us a demonstration, and we
watched him keeping the stamper hopping
at a fair rate by working an ingenious
contrivance of saplings. , The crushing
took over a fortnight and cleaned up
two ’weights of gold. It took George
another week to get over celebrations of
“the first payable crushin’ ever t’ come
orf the crick.”
* * * *
“Strict Veg.”: Anything does to make a
silly-season topic in Melbourne, and when
some outback Westralian announced that
emus which could be used to relieve the
city meat shortage were being slaughtered
by the hundred controversy developed
on the culinary virtues of one of our
national emblems. One ex-bushman cited
Leichhardt as an authority on the tender-
ness of emu flesh. Another gave as his
personal experience that boot leather is
much more edible. One 88-year-old
recalled having ate fried emu flesh
“as enjoyable as beef.” A Melbourne
Frenchman of my acquaintance once
killed and cooked a fox and served
it up to a friend, himself an epicure,
who pronounced it veal; but it took
five days and three different kinds of
wine in the preparation. Anyhow, emu
as a solution of Melbourne’s meat prob-
lem is out of the question. The bird is
protected, and the Government isn’t likely
to lift the prohibition.
* * * *
“Drover”: A landmark that refuses to
be swept away by the strongest Cen-
tralian winds is Deadman’s Sandhill, in
the north of S.A., which can be plainly
seen from the Birdsville (Q.)-Maree (S.A.)
stock route. It derived its name from a
tragedy of the early days. A party of
five stockmen were travelling overland
from Coongy station in S.A. to a race
meeting in Birdsville. Two went off look-
ing for water. The other three eventu-
ally perished at the foot of the sandhill.
A grim jest of Fate was that from the
top of the sandhill the doomed men
could see the timber along the Diaman-
tina in the distance, but with their horses
dead the men had no hope of making the
stage. It was from the top of the high
hill that Harry Readford, of “Starlight”
fame, is said to have watched for a day
to see if he was being followed during
his trip to Adelaide with the mob of
cattle he had stolen from Mt. Cornish.
But that was years before Deadman’s
got its name.
THE LOST BELLS OF JUANDAH.
“Juandah in the hectic days of the Lawtons.” —■
“Herbert Dawsonß. 14/6/’44.
Forbidding were the scrub-belts, the pastured
miles were long.
When old Juandah’s legions were fifty thousand
strong;
And on her fenceless spaces, among her wild-
eyed steers,
Was staged a cattle drama that lives across the
years.
Unmastered and defiant, they treated man with
scorn,
The bane of baffled with scarred
brows timber-torn,
Those lightfoot, lawless longhorns that camped
throughout the day
And grassed beneath the starlight—till the Law-
tons found a way.
In midnights of the ’nineties (star shadows,
zephyr-stirred)
The sweep of fearless horsemen who cleft the
racing herd:
The tail grasp, up and over, the sudden pull
of rein.
And a bell strapped to a heifer as she struggles
on the plain.
A quick vault to the saddle to miss the wild
beast’s rush;
She paws and bucks and circles, then seeks
the sheltering brush;
She crashes through the timber, and onward
in the night
The jingling bell goes with her to spur her
in her flight.
At first her mates are scary and will not ven-
ture near.
Then as no harm comes to them they slowly
conquer fear;
And on nocturnal pastures where silence mostly
dwells
The cropping of the wild mobs is tuned to
tinkling bells.
Oh, then the turbid muster might make a brave
man swoon,
The massing of the cattle beneath a midnight
moon,
The surging of the leaders, the wingers break-
ing wide
Where now with greenhide roaring four famous
brothers ride.
Four men whose names will linger as long as
Queensland moons
Shine mottled on the vine scrubs and gleam in
deep lagoons:
While ever stockmen steady the stringing
Queensland leads
Fierce fame will gild the Lawtons and the glory
of their deeds.
The brave days of Juandah have gone as if one
dreamed
And woke to find dead embers where a red
campfire gleamed.
But when the moons of midnight shine on the
wheat’s tall spears,
The lost bells of Juandah peal faintly through
the years.
QUEENSLAND.
LEX MCLENNAN.


“Old-timer”; In an idle moment I
caught the thread of the tiny spider on a
stick, then lowered the spider on to a
small square of white cardboard. It set
out for the south-west corner, reached it,
considered, then dropped on its thread. I
replaced it in the centre of the square.
It went through the same performance,
again at the south-west corner. Six times
the process was repeated. Then, thinking
that the angle of light might have some-
thing to do with it, I moved the square
and replaced the spider. It appeared to
ponder the change for a split fraction of
time, then again headed for the south-
west corner. Before the tenth replace-
ment I laid a match across the track.
The spider reached it, paused, half-
turned, then scaled the match and raced
for the corner. I picked it up again.
Again it hurdled the match, reached the
corner, made to drop. I reached out the
stick. The spider hurriedly climbed up
its thread to the cardboard, raced to the
centre, paused, then propelled itself in
one mighty leap clean off the square and
vanished into the darkness under the
table. I could have sworn it squeaked
derisively as it went.
•I*
“Moyhu”: Every spring a mob of
long-horned bally-faced Herefords come
down from their winter habitat on the
foothills just above the snowline of n.-e.
Victoria’s alpine country to mix with the
new arrivals (store cattle from the lower
country) until the following autumn,
when they again disappear. At the
height of the summer grazing season they
will pay little attention to a man on
horseback other than to make sure he
does not approach them too closely, but
when the air acquires an autumn nip they
become timid as elks and disappear at
the sound of a distant hoofbeat. They
have acquired the deer’s winter grazing
habits —the shallow snow is nosed aside
to get at the snowgrass and lichen, and, at
a pinch, they can sustain themselves off
the Bogong dogwood—and even some of
the deer’s fleetness of foot. Tableland
drovers have tried to drive them into the
soft snowdrifts —in vain, the cattle having
developed a splaw foot, not unlike a small
snowshoe, with which they travel easily
over the most lightly-packed drifts. On
one occasion, when closely pressed, a mob
of 50 or more of these outlaws' squatted
on their hindquarters on a long, snow-
covered slope and slid 300 feet to safety.
* * * *
“B. 4”: In the majority of cases re-
gurgitation does help to save the crow’s
hide (B. 21/6/ ’44). Kelly promptly
makes for a tree when sick, and, digging
his claws in, heaves away till he hoists
the offending scran, sometimes tumbling
after it to stagger about below. Occa-
sionally a sable fowl succumbs and plops
with a thud. The watchful diners note
this, and flock querulously to the tree,
whence they commence a deafening din.
Other mourners hie to the wake, which
drowns the noise made when a few more
die suddenly of Jead poisoning. The rest
hit the breeze for far horizons,
“Bughouse”; Of the three deadly
poisons used on crows, strychnine, being
a vegetable alkaloid, an organic poison,
is least alien to the crow’s general run
of food—therefore the crow’s stomach,
becoming early aware of its presence, is
able to eject it before digestion really
begins (B. 21/6/’44), Arsenic and phos-
phorus, being inorganic or mineral
poisons, possibly get past the stomach
before the recipient’s internal organs be-
come aware of their presence. Dissecting
birds known to have taken phosphorus,
I invariably find the fumes strong in the
gizzard and not elsewhere along the diges-
tive tract. Then there is the question of
an overdose of strychnine. I have seen
a man, alive and well, who on his own
admission had tried to poison himself
with strychnine. This he later denied in
court, claiming that had he taken the
“Just back from New Guinea , I see.”
"No —dislocated it throwin a salute.”
dose alleged he would be dead. The Law
asserted that an overdose had brought
his stomach to reject the poison ; and
not one doctor could be found to give
an authoritative opinion one way or the
other.
* * * *
“Bo”: “Best snoozer I ever struck,”
said “Tarcutta” Tim, “was down Bunnee-
burra way. I’m workin’ fer a cocky, an’
we’d got a big paddock of hay—must’ve
bin a hundred tons or so —off an’
into a stack. That night a cyclone
comes up an’ bowls it over. For a
coupla days the boss leaves it where it
is while he gets the rest o’ the crop in, the
weather keepin’ fine. After it’s in he de-
cides to put all the busted stack through
the chaffcutter where it stands, an’ the
team of us hop into it. A coupla days
later we’re gettin’ down towards the
bottom when from somewhere under me
feet I hear a sorta whistlin’ sound an’
heavy breathin’. I’m just beginnin’ to
think I’m bearin’ things when the hay
‘Now then, don't go ’urtin that catfish!"
parts an’ a whiskery old coot with a
dopy look on his face fights his way up.
After he finishes yawnin’ an’ stretchin’
an’ havin’ a scratch he eyes me orf,
nasty like, an’ he says; ‘A man no
sooner gits to sleep in a comfortable
warm bunk but what some work-mad
goats has to come disturbin’ him. I wish
y’d take y’r machine to hell! ’ and he
mooches off!”
* * * *
“Norther”: Spare a moment of silence
for “The Lone Swaggie” who, after 30
years of humping the knot round Queens-
land, took a header off Brisbane’s Story
Bridge. His name was Adam Moitow,
he was a professional footballer in Scot-
land and came to Queensland for health
reasons. During his wanderings he wrote
a lot of verse, which was never pub-
lished. In letters he left he said so much
about Dunwich, the State men’s home,
that the coroner invited the authorities
to look into it.
* * * *
“Mat’s Mate”: Out behind.JTullamore
(N.S.W.) one year we heard of a fencing
contract and put in for it, dealing with
a stock and station agent. We landed
the bacon, made our arrangements for
tucker and tools and headed for the job,
there to be met by an elderly man who
showed us the fence line, with the posts
and stays already laid. After about a
week, when we had a promising show of
posts up, a car pulled up and out got a
handsome lady of determined aspect.
“Well, how’s it going?” she demanded.
Mat leaned on the bar and replied “Fair
enough, if it’s any business of yours.”
“It is,” she assured him, and I could see
them measuring each other with their
eyes like boxers; “I own this place.” Mat
probed the ground
thoughtfully with the
bar point, then he
said “Missus, do y’
know this is Leap
Year?” Slightly
astonished, she re-
plied “What of it?”
Mat threw the bar
down, threw his
shoulders back and
threw her a black
look. “Then leap
out of here,” he
snapped. “Me anj me
mate didn’t know it
was a woman’s job,
an’ it don’t matter,
seein’ it’s contract.
But we don’t stand
females, see, and it’s
either you or us who
does the leapin’.”
For a minute she
faced him, then with
a tight little smile
she went to the car.
We saw her but once
more —the day we
collected our final
cheque.
* *
“No. 3”: Breaking
from a new tunnel
into an old working,
a party of Swansea
(N.S.W.) miners came upon what looked
like an exquisite white lace curtain of
intricate and most delicate weave. It
was the roots of a eucalypt on the gravel
ridge above searching for solid earth.
“Zake”: Joe the post-splitter, holding a
dripping pair of working trousers that he
had just finished washing, sang out to his
mate Bert to give him a hand to wring
them, Bert got a grip on one end and
they commenced twisting. They kept at
it until the strides looked like a length
of rope and the possibilities of there
being a drop of water left in them seemed
remote. This developed into a tug-of-
war while the twisting still went on, each
one apparently to see if the
pants could be crushed back again into
separate strands. At last, almost ex-
hausted, they decided no more water
could be wrung from them. Bert let his
end go ; so at the same instant did Joe,
thinking that Bert still held them; and
the strides went plop into the mud. Then
the fight started.
* * * *
“B. A. Ker”: Cats are piaradoxical
creatures, anyway (B. 5/7/’44). No
animal likes water less, yet, perversely,
none loves a fish diet more. A cat will
stalk distastefully round a patch of mud,
but never fail to leave footprints over a
wet cement path or floor. Nor is this
accidental blundering such as a dog’s ; on
the contrary, puss approaches cautiously,
sniffs the surface, then minces across with
all the vanity of a child wearing big
sister’s high heels. The cat is surely
the laziest of all domesticated or indi-
genous animals, yet unquestionably the
swiftest in action. At times it is a brain-
less creature racing aimlessly under the
influence of “nerves” ; at others, a model
of patience waiting for hours till its prey
is within leaping distance. Although
domesticated for untold centuries it
has never acquired a real sense of
loyalty nor, generally speaking, shown
an adaptability to leant tricks. I’ve
seen only one “trained” cat. It was doing
a life sentence in Parramatta Jail when
I was doing a spot of hard labor there —
strictly as a day boy, let me hasten to
add. The big tom had been trained by
his prisoner master to hate warders. A
stranger could walk up and stroke him at
any time, but let a blue-clad figure
approach and the lazy, purring creature
became an arch-backed, spitting fury
ready to fight or bolt if the menace came
any closer. The same warder, out of
uniform, could handle the cat at will.
* * * *
“G.H.A.”: The widely-known birds
described by “8.A.K.” (B. 17/5/’44) are
pure examples of the discoveries of the
layman. One of the newer fowl in our
locality is the “cur-cur” bird. This species
is found around the southern N.S.W.
Alps, the .Molongloside and the Vic-
torian Dargo and Bogong country. It’s
name is derived from its peculiar cry:
“Cur-cur-cripes, it’s cold!”
« * * *
“A.J.K.” goes to a show:
The sky was streaked with crimson and
orange as the sun dropped behind the dense
undergrowth. In the clearing which accommo-
dated the projector shack and stage, logs of
palm on stout uprights formed the seats of pit
and stalls; the d.c. seats were six-wheeled
transports parked around the fringe.
By 7.45 p.m. the “theatre” was packed.
Behind the smoking, laughing crowd were a
few wizened ex-headhunters, naked except for
the traditional shell, their bearded faces
wreathed in smiles, pierced nostrils and ear lobes
carrying decorative fragments of wood and
coral. Here and there on the outskirts were
frolicking groups of dark-skinned Dutch
islanders. The women, slightly built and wear-
ing their jet hair tightly pulled and bunched,
generally carried a baby in a sling over their
shoulders. The men, like their womenfolk,
wore light cotton whites. There were dozens
of chattering youngsters with the characteristic
high cheekbones and black, straight hair. A
virile people, these, like their sturdy Nether-
land protectors.
Suddenly there was a rumpus. Two young
fellows were hammering at each other with
bare lists and snarling like wild-cats. The
audience rose to its feet as one man. Cheers
of “At him, sonny,” and “Show him, kid,”
and boos and shouts echoed over the arena as
soldiers and airmen vented their excitement at
the sideshow. A middle-aged, stoutish woman,
evidently their mother, and carrying the usual
swinging babe, chattered wildly and tried to
separate them. Other urchins formed sides. There
was a flash of bhde, but tragedy was averted by
the swift intervention of a powerful colored
service man. The brats scattered; the foray
continued, judging by the yells coming soon
afterwards from the scrub. Then a tot, barely
able to walk, came along supporting a huge
green coconut; with the assistance of a smiling
relative she drank eagerly from an incision in
the end. The “kalarpi” was easily three times
the size of her own dark head. As the twilight
deepened the palms, silhouetted now as in the
closing scenes of a Fitzpatrick travelogue, re-
sembled so many black, fluffy powderpuffs.
Here and there poker schools pocketed their
“centres” and folded up the groundsheet
tables. Books and papers disappeared as
the light faded completely. Now and then a
rugged Digger face and slouch hat bronzed out
in relief as a match flared.
Without warning the first newsreel flashed to
the screen, accompanied by the conventional
blare of sound. But the film disappeared as
quickly as it had come, and a voice boomed
over the amplifier: “The show won’t go on
until those chaps get off the stage.” Along
the edge of the stage were lined a dozen folded
blankets and cushions, each accommodating re-
cumbent men viewing the screen in comfort
at close quarters. Muttered oaths arose and
the figures dejectedly sought other seats, a
few urchins also scurrying off. As the newsreel
recommenced a voice from behind said “Gripes,
Syd, the seats aren’t as soft as they are back
at the' old ‘Metro,’ eh?”
LYREBIRDS.
1 heard the sound of an axe
Where an axeman never would be.
The moon was bright
And the bush alight
With her shimmering mystery;
And I heard the ghost-axe go
Chopping along the hill,
The echo of every blow
Seeming the bush to fill.
I searched by the dim bush tracks
And’ never a man was there ...
The ghost-sounds died
And a curlew cried
And the night was warm and fair.
Next' day I heard a train
Stammering up the grade.
The dawn was dim
By the river’s brim
And under the bridge’s shade
I heard her whistle blow
And the clatter of empty cars,
At a place where no engines go
By day or beneath the stars.
I listened and heard again
Her whistle far away
And the “tickety-fack”
Of wheels on the track
In the songs that the train-wheels play.
The sound of the axe still comes
And many a sound beside.
I’ve heard the train
Go past again,
Her whistle has hoarsely cried.
No ghostly sounds are these
For the echoes hear them, too,
And the wandering bushland breeze
Brings them the silence through;
And when a bittern drums
Close by, where none could be,
In their hidden dell
The lyrebirds tell
Of the jokes they’ve played on me.
N.S.W.
WILL LAWSON.


r
Q
r
$
(A
/ / '■
I'J^coXAT'
e>e-s-'?TX£y
TREAT AS TREASURE
What the artist means, of course, is that you should
take the greatest care of your self-stropping Valet Razor
nowadays. For one thing, no more are being made while
the war lasts. And for another, it gives you weeks of
perfect shaving from every single blade, and saves you
endless hunting in the shops for blades which are in
short supply because of limited production ... But even
a Valet pays for a little coddling.
So remember: Never let the strop get gritty or
dusty. Scrape it clean occasionally with the back
edge of a used blade and work in a little strop dress-
ing or lanoline to keep it smooth and supple.
VALET RAZOR STROPS ITSELF
Valet' blades sid. each
Australian, Mercantile, Land & Finance
Company, Limited
(INCORPORATED IN ENGLAND IN 1863)
WOOL, FAT STOCK, STORE AND STUD STOCK,
PRODUCE AND PROPERTY SALESMEN
General Manager for Australia: R. SINCLAIR SMITH.
ADVANCES MADE ON GRAZING PROPERTIES, ON STOCK, AND ON
CONSIGNMENTS OF WOOL, SKINS. HIDES, TALLOW, ETC.
LICENCED ALCTIuMiEJK.es, STUCK AND STATION AGENTS.
SYDNEY OFFICE; A. M. MURDOCH, Manager.
ALSO AT MELBOURNE, BRISBANE, NEWCASTLE, WAGGA, HENTY, HAY, MOREE,
TOWNSVILLE, CHARLEViLLE. BUENOS AIRES, LONDON.
GENERAL AGENTS in NKW SOUTH WALES FOR NORTHERN ASSURANCE CO.. LTD
For Mineral Mixtures and Licks for
Bone-chewing Cattle
Tor
v Sterilised
__ „ BONE FLOUR
To Remedy
Phosphorus Deficiency
in Pastures and Fodders
Tri-cal-os Bone Flour is purely a bone product without admixture
of any other substance. It contains a guaranteed minimum of
32.5 per cent, phosphoric acid and 40 per cent. lime.
. All particulars from :
DAVIS GELATINE, G.P.O. BOX 35835, SYDNEY.
G.P.O. Boxes—4osB Melbourne, 75SK Brisbane, 712 F Adelaide, 588 Perth.
THE MAN ON THE LAND
"DON'T WOŔY I'M SENDING IT TO
GRAZCOS."
Buffalo Fly.
"Beefo”: The buffalo fly will soon be
in N.S.W. unless very stringent restric-
tions are enforced to prevent cattle from
known buffalo-fly areas in Queensland
getting within a certain distance of the
border until they’ve beep dipped at least
twice.
In ten years the fly has moved rapidly
southward, mainly owing to the mistaken
idea that it cannot exist, away from the
humid Gulf country. The buffer area in
north-west Queensland was of little use,
buffalo flies being established south and
east of it before it came into effect.
Cattle sprayed at Kajabbi before being
trucked had buffalo flies on them, alive
and kicking, when they arrived at Towns-
ville. Measures taken from 1934 onwards
to check the flies have been ineffectual.
Trapping has been 4 suggested, but it is
useless. The only practical method is a
strict and wide dipping scheme in Queens-
land. Dips, and plenty of them, should
be built at sites outside known fly areas,
and neither horses nor cattle should be
allowed into clean country until they have
been dipped twice—thrice if there is the
slightest suspicion that any of the beasts
are fly-affected. The boundaries of the
fly areas must be well policed. Cost
doesn’t matter if the menace can be kept
from spreading south, as it certainly will
unless action replaces talk.
Feeding Pregnant Ewes.
“Liss”; The process of “steaming-up”
cows—feeding them as well as one can
for the last six weeks or so of pregnancy
—can be extended with great advantage
to pregnant ewes, as, apart from increased
milk and a stronger lamb at birth, it
obviates risk of pregnancy toxaemia.
Supplementary feeding of all ewes meant
to rear lambs should be a routine prac-
tice, but it should be done intelligently.
Experiments have clearly shown that
the most effective programme is to keep
the ewes on a ration sufficient to keep
them in good, strong condition during the
first four months. For the last month
they are given all they can clean up, the
feed being hay and grain and the sheep
running on natural pasture.
Three groups were tested. One was fed
no more than would keep them strong
throughout the period, the Second group
got all they could eat all the time, and the
third were fed as outlined in the preceding
par. In the first case the lambs were light
and weak; in the second', big and strong,
but the ewes were overfat, and the method
proved wasteful. The third method pro-
vided good lambs at economical cost. The
ewes were in good heart at lambing and
the lambs were very strong.
Shearing Rates.
“Bungaree”: In the war years the pas-
toral industry has suffered acutely from
shortage of labor in the shearing shed.
To remedy this came zoning, which
spread the shearing season over prac-
tically the whole year. Without zoning
there would have been endless confusion,
as sheep-owners who must have their
sheep shorn in September would have
found.
Last season, particularly during the
peak period, some graziers, fearing that
their sheep were to be left unshorn,
offered bonuses, concessions or even
straight-out rates in excess of the award
to attract shearers. The result is that
already this season shearers have Re-
manded and obtained excessive rates and
concessions in the way of free combs
and cutters, free meat and sometimes
tucker, travelling allowances and bonuses
and stud rates for flock sheep.
Shearers are taking advantage of the
fact that many sheep must be shorn now
because of dry conditions, or because
they are getting close to the end of their
zoning period. Some ewes will be lamb-
ing soon and the wool must be got off
before then. Those sheep-owners who
have yielded must take the blame. So
long as the policy of every man for him-
self reigns they must be prepared to face
other increasing costs because of the pre-
cedent they are making.
There are about 90 million sheep in
Australia to be shorn, for which a cer-
tain number of shearers is available. Bid-
ding by graziers for shearers won’t affect
the eventual shearing as a whole. It will,
however, affect very gravely indus-
trial peace, and every employer of pas-
toral labor will have to foot the bill. Any
grazier who bribes shearers is betraying
the war effort and his fellows.
Shearing contractors aren’t free of
blame. They realise that to keep going
they have a better chance if they pay
additional rates. To cover these rates
they quote contract prices sufficiently
high to allow for them, thus adding to
a bad state of affairs.
Breaking a Jib.
“Jiff”: Harness the contrary moke as
usual but with only a swinglebar, plus '
three or four helpers hanging on to it
by means of a strong rope. Leading or
driving the nag with reins he will go
back with the weight instead of pulling.
The blokes on the rope have to put little
weight into it to keep the nag backing.
A hardened jib will keep on backing tor
a couple of hundred yards, but most of
’em have had enough after only a short
distance. ,
This reverse progress so affects the
sinews of the legs that the horse is soon
pleased to give up and pull. Keep some
weight on the rope when you have got
him to pull so that he’ll go backward if
he should jib again. This treatment might
have to be repeated a couple of times, but
it will cure the worst jib permanently.
For a jib in a working team attach a
dog chain or strong cord to the chain
of the horse on each side of the jib so
that it will hang loosely under the jib,
just behind his front legs. When he jibs
the horses on each side will bring the
thin chain tight under his front legs,
which invariably gets him going quick
and lively. The slow starter in a team
can be cured the same way.
Deciduous Fruit-trees.
“E. 2”; I get good plants by sowing
the seeds in a rich, well-drained bed in
early spring. Seeds are taken from vigor-
ous-growing sorts, which are usually more
resistant to disease and bear earlier. The
seedlings need little attention beyond
ample watering.
In the first dormant stage I lift the
plants and prune the taproot and other
roots to make them spread evenly. They
are then worked over to the desired
variety by whip-grafting when the sap is
beginning to rise. The second year I lift
them again when dormant, prune tops
and roots and plant out in permanent
positions, which are well prepared in
advance. Seasonal pruning aims at estab-
lishing a strong framework of limbs to
carry heavy crops of fruit.
To ensure pollination, bees should be
kept. With shy-bearing plants yield is
improved if the fequired number of bees
is available. Best bees are the blacks
and their Italian crosses; they begin
working earlier in spring than others. The
honey crop, being of secondary impor-
tance, should not be taken off unless a
heavy surplus occurs, otherwise a lean
spell may cause bee stocks to dwindle
or die out.
Tree-planting.
“Lub”: It has not been done on a large
scale yet, and there is need for research
to determine what trees should be planted
and where. Idea is to treat timber as a
crop, to be renewed regularly, and to
grow trees that will provide good timbers
as well as play their part in erosion con-
trol and farm uses. Suitable timber trees
can be found for each district.
For inland and dry areas the natives'
are best. Grey- and yellow-box with-
stand droughts, red-gum does well in
swamp country and depressions, and
sugar-gums mature quickly under irriga-
tion. There are others, of course, but
these can be relied on to produce hard-
wood.
The moist districts and alpine areas
grow magnificent blue-gums, ash and a
wide selection of our finest hardwoods.
There Is much scope in the cooler parts
for pines and other softwoods; hickory
and others should do well in some dis-
tricts. Our rich-grained blackwood could
be grown with profit.
Every farmer should set aside portion
of his land for trees. Once started they
need little attention, are invaluable for
shelter and breakwinds and add consider-
ably to the value of the property.
Further, the example of trees acts upon
neighboring farmers, and the interests of
the district are served.
Hints for the Farm.
•‘Jiff”: If the stock won’t take to hay
made from speargrass prepare a brine of
one part coarse salt to 16 parts water (11b.
salt to 2gal. water) and sprinkle each
layer of hay with a watering-can whilst
building the stack. The salt makes this
type of fodder more appetising and bene-
fits stock. Speargrass should be cut for
hay before it starts seeding to preserve
its fodder qualities, which are practically
nil when it has dried off.
“Portergaff”; Using a cup-shaped iron
for dehorning calves is a more reliable
method than caustic. Use an iron large
enough to cover the horn bud; press it
firmly on the bud for two or three seconds
in much the same way as you would fire-
brand hide. Dehorning can be done any
time up to four or six weeks of age, the
younger the better.
“Liss”: Lucerne is a splendid fire-
break. Wherever possible an area should
be established right round the homestead
group, and if the buildings are widely
separated it may be possible, by using
an electric fence, to grow it between and
among them. During the dangerous
months the lucerne can be grazed close
by the working horses, milkers and rams
or any reasonably quiet stock.
‘B.”: When disinfecting buildings
don’t, at the start, remove accumulations
of dirt and manure. That scatters the
germs. Apply a disinfectant solution first
to all parts of the walls and floors and
leave in contact 24 hours. After that do
the scraping and scrubbing. Soak the
refuse with kerosene and burn. For the
solution use a pint of phenol or coal tar
to four gallons of water, or lib. chloride
of lime to one gallon water, or \\ pints
crude carbolic acid to four gallons water.
Spray all surfaces. Disinfection of sheds
and yards before shearing reduces infec-
tions in wounds and stock losses.
“Mi Mi”: Garden implements last
longer if, after use, they are cleaned,
thoroughly oiled and hung on racks in
the tool-shed. Don’t leave implements in
the open at night. Exposed to the
weather, handles of wood are apt to split.
“Scot”: The fact that in s.-w. Queens-
land good natural forest-regeneration has
taken place on small areas of denuded
mulga and myall country, inaccessible to
stock for long enough to allow seedlings
to grow beyond feeding height, shows
that experiments in wholesale regenera-
tion of these indigenous timbers will be
more profitable than efforts to establish
stock - feeding timbers from outside
sources. Given a fair chance, the natural
regeneration of our mulga and myall
timbers will take place on their original
stands.
“8.C.”: Sydney R.A.S. is out with the
schedule for its show of veges., fruit and
flowers in December. There are 28, 30
and 77 classes respectively, entries cost
a bob each, and there are good prizes.
There will also be a big range of exhibits
by the Commonwealth Government.


UNCABLED ADDITIONS
German Man-power.
(As assessed by "United States News.”)
On one side is Russia with an army of
12.000. men who can be drawn upon
for attacks on the eastern front. On the
other side are America, Britain and other
Allies, estimated to have 5,000,000 men
available for attacks in Western Europe,
Italy or the Balkans.
In the middle is Germany with an army
of 8,000,000 men, as against the Allies’
17.000. Once, Germany’s matchless
military force could concentrate on
smashing one by one the armies of weaker
nations. Now, Germany has much the
weaker army. That army is at bay, and
is spread along 12,000 miles of her several
fronts.
Germany’s 2,500,000 permanent war
losses have been heaviest among the men
of prime fighting age. Hence Germany’s
remaining troops include high percentages
of mere boys and of old men. Her man-
power shortage is worst among special-
ists of the air force and of the Panzer
divisions. That weakness is accentuated
by dearth of certain critical weapons,
especially airplanes,
Germany now can keep only about
5.500.000 men in position to resist the
drives from the east backed by Russia’s
12.000. men. That leaves only about
2.500.000 German troops in position to
fight drives from the west and south
backed by 5,000,000 American, British
and other Allied troops. Defeats in Italy
are knocking out Germany’s chance to
relieve eastern and western fronts by
shifting forces from the south.
Man-power reserves of Germany are
nearly exhausted. Her satellite countries
are of less and less help. Her own fac-
tories and farms have been combed for
men, and are kept operating only with
the help of 12,000,000 foreign workers.
But, while Germany has nowhere to
turn for more man-power, the Allies’
reserves are a backlog of great strength.
Large numbers of Allied troops still are
in training or uncommitted. Whereas in
Germany only 600,000 youths become 18
years old each year, in America the
number is 1,200,000 and in Russia is
much larger.
All told, only the Allies are in position
to keep pouring reinforcements into the
war in Europe. Losses that they readily
can replace will mean collapse of Ger-
many. That’s the main reason for con-
fidence that, in the end, Germany will be
beaten. x
Misconceptions About Japs.
(Condensed from an "American Mercury”
article by Sydney Greenbie.)
Our soldiers and marines have dis-
covered that Japanese will often let them-
selves be annihilated rather than sur-
render. But this is by no means always
the case. One unit of Japanese will fight
to the last man ; another will come walk-
ing in with hands up before they need
to surrender.
Intelligence officers, questioning Japa-
nese prisoners, have discovered what any-
one who knew Japanese character could
have pointed out long ago: that Japanese
readiness, on some occasions, to die rather
than surrender does not necessarily rep-
resent personal courage. More often it
can be traced to the fact that Japanese
soldiers lack the sense of moral freedom
which animates our men. They are a
people who retain attitudes beaten into
them in long centuries of pitiless
despotism.
A popular fallacy is that the Japanese
is indifferent to death. The truth is far less
edifying. It is that a Japanese seldom has
any choice. Though Japanese units, under
binding orders, will fight to the death,
the Japanese as an individual will not
fight for his life. He capitulates easily
before an impasse—and commits hara-
kiri. He knows that if he surrenders social
ostracism will make his life a hell any-
way. So he fights until killed, and some-
times commits suicide if captured.
Hara-kiri, it should be understood, is
the expression of the moral dilemma in
which century-long subservience to over-
lords has placed the Japanese. The ease
with which they apparently take their
own lives has been accepted abroad as a
symbol of courage and chivalry, when
often it is, in fact, an exhibition of moral
cowardice. It is a death sentence im-
posed by lord or dictator, and then by
society, in which the cruelty is heightened
by making a man his own executioner.
What we have not quite understood is
that, despite a superficial modernisation
of the country, Japan’s mental life has
undergone no genuine change. The swash-
buckling shoguns and Samurai retain the
same power over the cowering Japanese
soul that they had during the epoch of
Japanese self-imprisonment, even though
tanks, airplanes and tommy-guns have
replaced the sword. Our soldiers report
that Japanese never even try to get
around a situation. They advance need-
lessly in the face of a barrage of gunfire,
falling by the thousands.
When the panic caused by Doolittle’s
raid was reported many thought it was
being exaggerated. The Japanese, it
was assumed, were fatalistic and fear-
less, calm and unemotional. The truth
is that in disaster the Japanese has neither
stability nor fortitude. In the 1923 earth-
quake the Japanese completely lost their
heads. They behaved like hysterical mad-
cats, and rushed about with enormous
swords whacking down inoffensive
Koreans in an orgy of bloodlust.
Far from being calm and stoical, the
Japanese is nervous to the verge of hys-
teria. The Japanese as a soldier has cer-
tain advantages in his small stature and
his capacity to live on little. He has been
trained for centuries to a low standard
of living and a high standard of dying.
But he is a trembling serf, not a hero.
Still another popular fallacy is that the
Japanese people have suddenly fallen
under the domination of a military clique.
The legend is that about 1931 Japan was
wrested from the hands of liberal forces,
and that once we release the humble and
well-meaning Japanese from that yoke
they will be ready for reasonable inter-
national dealings.
It is true that the Japanese are domi-
nated by a military group. But Japan
did not undergo a seizure of power such
as the Nazis achieved in Germany and
the Fascists in Italy, The ancient tech-
niques of ruling an enslaved people were
merely intensified by industrialisation.
The same people, standing in the same
relationship to one another, holding the
same ideas and using the same methods,
have been running the country all along.
When we speak of restoring consti-
tutionalism or undermining militarism in
Japan, we are thinking of something that
does not exist. We assume that there
are largo numbers of “liberals” in Japan
who may be called out of hiding at the
appropriate time. Unfortunately, there
aren’t. Even Yukio Ozaki, one of the
few genuine democrats, in his book on
democracy in Japan, promised that if
anything therein were found inimical to
the Imperial Household he would retract
the whole book. A Nehru or a Madame
Chiang can hardly be imagined in Japan.
Our assumption that the people of
Japan can be distinguished from their
rulers, the militarists, leads to all kinds
of wishful thinking. Last September the
Foreign Policy Association declared that
“Japan may crack reported indica-
tions of current discontent” could be
“viewed as signs” of the “existence of
democratic or at least anti-militaristic
tendencies.” But the supposition that
internal discontent in Japan leads to any-
thing resembling democracy is a typical
Western misconception.
Discontent is chronic in Japan. The
frequency of suicides and assassinations
has repeatedly indicated suppressed stir-
rings of a kind that in other countries
might presage real revolution. Such
revolution has not come, because when
the Japanese are discontented, or even
riotous, they do not try to think their
way out. to a democratic solution. On
the contrary, they rush back to their own
tradition and fortify themselves by reviv-
ing ancient dreams.
The spiritual discomfort of the Japa-
nese suddenly released into the world after
centuries of hibernation has shown itself
for nearly a century in something which
we Westerners have taken for sensitive-
ness, pride and need of saving face. This
is another of our popular fallacies. To
begin with, saving face is not exclusively
an Oriental characteristic. It is only a
somewhat naive exaggeration of the per-
sonal consideration Westerners demand
and grant all the time. Among us it is
based on a supposition that God created
us all equals. There is no such supposi-
tion among the Japanese. In no land on
earth is life for the ordinary man more
consistently a fac e-losing matter than in
Japan. Browbeaten in relation to a
superior and to authority, the Japanese
bows, hisses meekly, his brow upon the
mats before a succession of superiors.
The most inconsequential official has dig-
nity that must be placated by bowing and
scraping.
What then shall we do about the Japa-
nese after unconditional surrender? De-
stroy their military power and keep it
destroyed! Japan has enough other gifts
for making a decent life for itself at
home. It might win for itself greater
credit for its genuine culture and in-
terests. Re-education of the Japanese is
possible, but it will take a long time and
intelligent handling. Meanwhile, let us
not be deceived by any false front or
democracy the country may put on.
“Imperialists,” Etc.
(From the “Saturday Evening Post.”)
Dr. Carl Becker, professor emeritus of
history at Cornell, thinks that perhaps
American thinking on the subject of im-
perialism is not so profound as some ot
the pundits of press and radio would
have us believe. In a wise and provoca-
tive book called How New Will the Better
World Be ? (Knopf) Dr. Becker raises a
few questions. From what he has read and
listened to, Dr. Becker assumes the popu-
lar picture of an imperialist to be “a white
man and a European, and a hidebound
conservative in national politics, bent
only on preserving class privilege, and,
in international politics, inspired by noth-
ing more laudable than to hang on to the
ill-gotten spoils of conquest in Asia and
Africa.” He gathers that neither Russia,
China nor the United States could pos-
sibly be imperialistic. Let Dr. Becker
take over: — .
“I suppose that if Siberia, with its eight
or ten million of non-Russian inhabitants
—Siberians, Chinese, Koreans —were an
island or group of islands separated from
Russia by two thousand miles of water,
there would be no difficulty in recognis-
ing that Russia is an empire with very
considerable ‘vested colonial interests.’
Or maybe the Chinese Empire would be
regarded as imperialistic if Mongolia,
Manchuria, Tibet and Sinkiang were scat-
tered in the Indian Ocean and South-west
Pacific. Fortunately for us [U.S.A.] the
Middle West and the Louisiana Territory,
acquired in 1803, are not separated from
the Atlantic seaboard and from each
other by large bodies of water, or we
might suffer from the disadvantage of
being called the United Commonwealth
of Nations and the American Empire.”
Neither U.S. offshore possessions nor
the U.S. plan to build an oil pipeline
across Arabia has accomplished that.
Dr, Becker did not make these simple
observations merely for the fun of play-
ing with words. It is his belief that the
American people have “more in common
with the people of Great Britain and the
British self-governing Dominions than
with any other people,” and that it is a
pity that Anglo-American understanding,
so necessary in a post-war world filled
with totalitarian “empires,” should be
clouded by terms which have little
meaning. For some inexplicable reason,
Americans who are indifferent to the
prospect of Poland being swallowed by
the vast Muscovite “empire” can work
themselves into a sweat about India,
where there is ten times more liberty right
now than ever existed in Stalingrad.
Empire Policy Debate.
(From a Manchester "Guardian” Parliamentary
report.)
In moving in the House of Commons
that the United Kingdom should do its
utmost to preserve in peace the unity of
purpose and sentiment which had held
the Empire together in time of war, Mr.
Shinwell said that it had become the
fashion in certain quarters to indulge in
sneers at the Empire. In the past mis-
takes had been “But it does not
lie in the mouths of other nations and
peoples to indulge in derogatory terms
regarding our administration until they
put their own house in order,” he de-
clared, amid cheers.
“We have in the British Commonwealth
of Nations a native problem. The United
States has a Negro problem, and in the
sphere of the acquisition of territory even
our friends of Soviet Russia, to safeguard
themselves against possible aggression in
the future, have sought to exercise a pro-
tectorate over other territories.
“I occasionally find myself in disagree-
ment with the Prime Minister, but I am in
hearty accord with the view he expressed
on the subject of the suggested liquida-
tion of the Empire. We have no inten-
tion, any one of us, of throwing* the
British Commonwealth of Nations over-
board in order to satisfy a section of the
American press or anyone else.”
Unless Britain took the appropriate steps
to prevent it, Britain might be poor after
the war and have to lower the standard
of living of the people. Its resources
were not inexhaustible, but they were
very considerable. It had to face the
facts and decide what was best for itself
and the world, not on the basis of senti-
ment or cousinly ties, important though
these were, but on the basis of enlight-
ened self-interest. Unless Britain did that
the plight of the Dominions might be
more precarious even than ours.
The Dominions could only survive by
selling their primary products. Where
were the markets for them? “1 do not
believe the creation of secondary indus-
tries in the Dominions can harm Britain
unless accompanied by stagnation as
regards population and failure to develop
their resources.
“There are vast resources within the
British Commonwealth which are still un-
developed.” There was the British market,
still*perhaps one of the most important
bargaining factors in relation to trade and
commerce. For the purposes of indus-
trial revival and expansion Britain should
have to import as much as before the
war and should have to export twice
as much, perhaps two and a half times
as much.
Where look for that increased trade?
To the United States? Britain could
hardly expect to export to that country
more than the £40,000,000 worth of goods
sold there before the war, though Britain
bought about £100,000,000 worth of
goods. “By all means let us have trade
agreements with the United States, but let
us look elsewhere also. In that there is
nothing exclusive or hostile to other
nations, and there is this vast Empire
market —a goodwill market. Let us avail
ourselves of it.
“There are elements in the United
States which instead of making a trade
agreement with the Empire as a whole
would like to make separate agreements
with each of us. I should regard that as
disastrous. Surely there is nothing ob-
jectionable in trying to promote trade
within the Empire, trying to find markets
for our goods there, and at the same time
trying to find markets for Dominion
goods within the Empire, including the
colonies.”
If the people of Britain did not want
a sham Empire, but were really anxious
for a higher standard of life on the basis
of economic expansion, they must be pre-
paid for sacrifices. A large proportion
of national savings should be invested in
Empire countries which needed them and
not in South American countries from
which in the long run we gathered very
little return.
Referring to India, Mr. Shinwell said:
“The problem that confronts us and the
Indian people is more economic than
political. What does it matter about
Hindus and Moslems if you can raise the
standard of life of 400,000,000 people in
that country?”
Mr. Shinwell said there was nothing in
the motion hostile to the countries asso-
ciated with our cause, such as the United
States or Russia. These problems were
common to all Empire countries. The
defence problem would be as acute after
the war as it was at present. “Shall we
deal with these common problems inde-
pendently so far as the Dominion coun-
tries are concerned, or shall we under-
take the task in co-operation? The
answer to that must come from the
Dominion countries. If they prefer in-
dependence they have taken upon their
shoulders a great risk and an immense
responsibility. If they prefer co-opera-
tion they recognise that it is to the ad-
vantage of the whole Empire and subse-
quently of the whole world,
“Our desire and the purpose of this
motion is in the long run to see that
this country, with the Dominion coun-
tries in the closest possible collaboration,
takes its place in the leadership of the
world and is not prepared to play second
fiddle to any other nation or any other
empire.” (Cheers.)
Sir A, Beit (C. —St. Pancras S.E.), re-
ferring to the possibility of a currency
and trading agreement with the United
States, said he could imagine no
greater blow to the unity of the Empire.
He would fight with all his strength
against any proposal to sacrifice the sub-
stance of Empire trade and Imperial
preference to the shadow of universal co-
operation, at least until and unless a state
of full employment had been reached and
had got beyond the realms of pious hopes.
Mr. Henderson Stewart (Lib. Nat. —
Fife E.) commented upon the remarkable
unity of purpose which existed in all
parts of the House on the matter. In the
new world into which we should enter
when the war ended it was obvious to the
blindest of people that the British Com-
monwealth of Nations probably offered
the best markets for all our goods.
Sir William Brass (C—Clitheroe) said
he would like to see a big scheme of
Empire settlement initiated under a De-
partment of Overseas Settlement. He
also advocated a common defence for the
whole Commonwealth of Nations to
which the Dominions would contribute
pro rata of the population.
Mr. Arthur Greenwood (Lab. —Wake-
field) : “We can never become the hewers
of wood and drawers of water for the


The World follows Britain's lead .
mm
: : :
mmwmL
m:
s*?.
M &&&
ms] ...
-■ -Z'J>
0?
& IvV
■% ;*
Major-General
SIR ERNEST
SWINTON,
K.8.E..C8.,D.5.0,.R.E.
TAe originator of the
Tank, raised and
commanded the
H.S.M.G.C. in 1916 The
tank hw first used as a
new weapon in the battle
of the Somme in 1915.
MECHANISED WARFARE
TN the last world war, Britain evolved the Tank. — out-
standing military weapon of the period and forerunner
of mechanised warfare. Despite their ingenuity in forging
new weapons for battle, the British peoples have con-
tributed more to peace than to war. Prominent amongst
the benefits Britain has bestowed upon the world is the
development, by Courtaulds, of rayon and the lovely
fabrics made from it.
Courtaulds foresaw the potentialities ,of rayon and
brought it to perfection. Within a generation they had
established vast new industries in Britain, the United
States, Canada and elsewhere. Probably no single
achievement has secured a more widespread improvement
in standards of living everywhere.
The war has restricted the amount of Courtaulds rayons
at present available Research and development con-
tinue, assiduously, and still lovelier rayon fabrics will
reappear when victory is won. Courtaulds will demon-
strate once again that a British firm can lead the world
with new products and ideas destined to benefit all mankind.
The World’s greatest inventions and discoveries
originated within THE BRITISH EMPIRE
Issued by Courtaulds Ltd., London, England
Rayon Yarn distributed overseas by Lustre Fibres, Ltd. Rayon Fabrics distributed
overseas by Samuel Courtauld & Co., Ltd
:sTS>
1
10 for 1/1
20 for 2/2
Always fresh • «
Always smooth
CRAVES 1”
A foolish spender is a traitor.
The right place for your money
is in £lO National Savings Bonds!
Carreras Ltd—ls 4 Years’ Reputation for Quality
s°6f a
United States. We cannot become the
vassals of the United States, and we are
entitled to say so. But let it not be
thought that we are building up a Com-
monwealth because we have ulterior
motives against the Great Powers. If it
should be thought by the Great Powers
that we are staking out a claim to which
we are not entitled let this ever be re-
membered—that long before they were
driven into the war Britain and the cubs
of the Empire stood firm, and on that
ground, quite apart from our material
resources, are entitled to consideration in
the world of tomorrow.” •
Mr. Dalton (President of the Board of
Trade), replying on the debate for the
Government, said the Government ac-
cepted the motion.
It was generally agreed in all parts of
the House that Imperial preferences had
been of quite definite value both to us
and to the Dominions, particularly in the
latter part of the period between the wars,
when British goods by all sorts of ob-
structions were shut out from other
markets. The Government would not
alter any of those preference arrange-
ments as they now existed, which con-
ceraed the Dominions as much as us,
except after discussion and agreement
with the Dominion Governments.
Reproving Churchill,
(N.Y. “Daily News” editorial comment, con-
demed.)
Mrs. Roosevelt at her press conference
remarked, regarding Mr. Churchill’s
friendly attitude toward Spain, that “Mr.
Churchill has thought a certain way for
60 years, and 1 don’t think he wants to
change the way he has thought for 60
years.”
That is to. say that Mr. Churchill is a
marbleheaded old fogey who had learned
all he was destined ever to learn by the
time he was nine years of age,
What had irked Mrs. Roosevelt was
Mr. Churchill’s discussion of Spain’s per-
sistent neutrality. Mr, Churcnill said in
substance that when Britain was on the
hot spot in 1941-42 Franco had neither
seized Gibraltar nor let Hitler send sol-
diers through Spain to seize Gibraltar,
This > though Franco was obligated to
Hitler and Mussolini for help furnished
his rebel army in the Spanish civil war.
Mr. Churchill said that you naturally feel
some gratitude toward a man who re-
framed from knocking you down when
tie could have knocked you down,
A few hours after Mrs. Roosevelt
uttered about Mr. Churchill, the President
chimed in at his press conference with a
loud disagreement with Mr, Churchill on
the subject of Spain. Spain, he said, is still
shipping entirely too much material, such
as wolfram, to Germany; Spain’s con-
duct continues “unsatisfactory.”
What these reproofs to Mr. Churchill
may indicate is that the Allied trium-
virate —the United States, Britain and
Russia —is already beginning to go the
way of most triumvirates. Two of the
triumvirs usually get together to nudge
the third out of power and prestige.
The Allies have not yet won the war.
Indeed, we are told daily that the fierc-
est fighting is yet to be done. But already
the Roosevelts are veering this nation
toward Russia and away from Britain.
Why they are doing so is not hard to
figure out.
Spain continues neutral because it bled
itself white and harf-starved in its civil
war of 1936-39 and its people want peace
at almost any price. In that war, Russia
helped the Spanish Communists, just as
Italy and Germany helped the Spanish
conservatives.
The Reds and their fellow-travellers
have a mortal hatred for Franco, Spain’s
current dictator, because he won the
Spapish war and the Communists lost it..
The Reds and their fellow-travellers are
all-out for a fourth term for Roosevelt.
The Reddish C. 1.0. has started a fourth-
term drive into which it openly says it
will put several million dollars of the
members’ money.
Hence, it is smart politics to take public
raps at Spain, and at anybody—Mr.
Churchill included—who says a kind
word in public for the war-ruined Spanish
people. That will help keep the domestic
Reds and fellow-travellers in line for the
fourth term.
Dragnet Digest.
(Condensed from various acknowledged sources.)
In its simplest terms the plain fact is that
there are three or four members of the Polish
Government whom the Soviets will never trust',
and with good reason. The equally plain fact
is that the Polish nation has a very good claim
to a better frontier than the Curzon Line, par-
ticularly as respects the very Polish city of
Lwow, which has never at any time been a part
of Russia, and in regard to Vilna, which
means much,more to the Poles than it can ever
mean to the Soviets. A settlement requires
moral resolution by the Polish leaders to recon-
struct their Government, and by Stalin the
magnanimity which recognises that to win the
consent of the Poles is worth infinitely more
to the Soviets everywhere in this world than to
hold two cities. Such a settlement would be a
decisive achievement on the road to a lasting
peace. It would be regarded throughout the
world, even in the enemy countries, as the
harbinger of our complete victory.— From a
“Sunday Times” article by Walter Lippmann.
* * * *
U.S. Secretary of State Hull’s principal
post-war objective is not immediate perfection
in world affairs, but lasting peace through in-
ternational co-operation. Hull realises that
the Soviet Union is now one of the world’s
great Powers, and its co-operation is essential
to the preservation of peace. The all-important
question prior to the Moscow Conference was
whether Soviet Russia would co-operate, or
whether Stalin would go his own way and
pursue a policy of world revolution against'
capitalism. At Moscow, Hull succeeded in
getting Stalin’s promise to co-operate. He
secured acceptance by Russia, Great Britain
and China of American principles which, if
applied faithfully, would serve as the founda-
tion for a better world order. The wise old
American eagle who hovers over the conduct
of affairs at the State Department may not live
to see all his principles applied faithfully in this
world, but he has steered a course in American
foreign policy to which posterity is likely to
pay tribute. — Kingsbury Smith; “Reader’s
Digest.” ,
* * * *
In recent U.S. newspaper discussion of the dis-
memberment of Germany the opponents of this
course were in a majority of about 15 to one.
The arguments against dismemberment may be
grouped under two headings: first, it is con-
sidered bad propaganda at present, tending to
make the Germans fight desperately; secondly,
it is considered likely to lead to permanent deep
resentment which would produce another war
within a quarter of a century. The American
press on the whole accepts the necessity of
policing Germany but says this should be re-
quired for a short period only.— Manchester
‘‘Guardian” New York correspondent.
* * # #
“These [the occupied] countries have been
murdered. We have to deal with the murderers,
and I hope that there will be no such moral
indifference over the next 10 to 15 years as
will prevent us from dealing with these mur-
derers.” — Sir Frederick Leggett, British Gov-
ernment delegate to this year’s International
Labor Conference.
* * * *
One-third of all New Yorkers engage in
black-market buying as a regular practice and
up to 70 p.c. violate Office of Price Administra-
tion regulations “at one time or another,” it
was revealed in a city-wide survey by the City
College Social Research Laboratory.— N.Y.
“Times.”
* * * *
A reduction of 50 p.c. in Federal taxes is
the goal of the post-war tax programme to be
worked out by the House Republican study
committee on taxation. — N.Y. “Herald
Tribune.”
* * * •
Psychologists, writers and foreign-language
experts working under Government supervision
prepared the greatest barrage of printed facts
and figures and instructions in history to accom-
pany the Allied invasion of the European Con-
tinent. More than 125,000,000 pamphlets,
handbills and posters in a score of languages
have been prepared to help our troops on the
way to Berlin. — N.Y. “Times.”
* * 4= *
There has been a substantial response to the
statement made here recently by Colonel George
Drew, Ontario’s Premier, that the province
would welcome British immigrants after the
war. A number of men in the services have
asked Ontario House to register them, and so
have civilians with capital, some hundred single
women and a number of widows. All that
Ontario House can do yet is to register the
applicants; it cannot promise to accept them
until Ontario’s own service men have been
demobilised and settled. There is no doubt
that Canada will want British immigrants after
the war, especially skilled men who have been
doing tradesmen’s jobs in the services, and
more especially still the men who have been
trained for the R.A.F. in the Dominion and
learned to know and like Canada and its
people, though these are also the men that will
be needed after the war by a Britain rebuilding
itself. — Manchester “Guardian.”
* h= * *
In an interview in London the veteran French
statesman Louis Marin, who was leader of the
Right Wing in the Chamber of Deputies, and
who recently escaped to London, said that sus-
picion that General Charles de Gaulle may
attempt to set up a personal dictatorship in
France when the country is liberated is “totally
unjustified. If De Gaulle made the attempt he
would have no chance of success,” Marin said.
“France has had four years of direct and in-
direct German rule, and, believe me, there is
an experience that will make the people ex-
tremely vigilant against any form of totali-
tarian government.”— London correspondent
N.Y. “Herald Tribune.”
* tft % *
The longest border in the world is that be-
tween China and Russia. In view of the mount-
ing tension between the Kuomintang and the
Chinese Communists, this border may be the
world’s most dangerous spot after the defeat
of Japan. If the geopolitical interests of
Russia and the U.S. must clash anywhere
(which they must not) it may be on that
border. The nature of our post-war relations
with China may therefore be a matter of peace
or war for the U.S. — “Collier’s!”
* * * *
The seizure of Hungary and Rumania was
motivated as much by the urgency of the food
problem as by the military logic of the Balkan
situation. Both these countries are large pro-
ducers of agricultural product's. Until late
March, neither country had been pillaged so
thoroughly as the occupied States of Western
Europe. Both are now being stripped clean to
make up for the loss of the Ukraine and the
simultaneous flight back into Central Europe
of thousands of transplanted Axis farm “colo-
nists.” — “Atlantic Monthly.”
* * * *
The Nazis have lost their battle to enforce
their will on the Western World, and they know
it. But there is a long distance between the
relinquishment of assured victory and the
acceptance of assured defeat. If complete
and unconditional defeat seemed absolutely
assured to most Germans we believe that the
German front would collapse tomorrow. It
shows no signs of collapsing. The retreat in
Russia has been skilfully conducted. The Ger-
mans in Italy are fighting as hard as any
German troops ever fought. The Luftwaffe
has been whittled down, but its quality is still
good, and Allied fliers do not make light of
the anti-aircraft defences. — N.Y. “TimesS’
* * * *
For more than 100 years the City of London
has been paying the progeny of one Peter
Morice £3750 a year as part of the considera-
tions for rigging up a device to pump water
into the city. There are, the House of Com-
mons has been informed, only another 139
years to go.— N.Y. “Times.”


Personal and Missing Friends.
IF CHARLES ALFRED ADLAM, son of the late
Alfred John Adlam, of Waverley, in Taranaki, in
New Zealand, will communicate with the undersigned
solicitors, he will hear something to his advantage.
Any communication will be treated as confidential.
—NICHOLSON, KIRKBY & SHEAT, Solicitors, New
Plymouth, New Zealand.
Public Notices.
I, HARRY JAYTON, Stateless, of former German
nationality, born at Berlin, Germany, and resident
five years in Australia, now residing at 368 a New
South Head Road, Double Bay, N.S.W., intend to
apply for Naturalisation under the Nationality Act
1920-1936.
HARTS
For at) type* ci
Recording Instruments lor any claw
oi Machinery or Equipment
METER CHARTS a specialty.
Accuracy guarantee*!. Gat <
JACKSON & O’SULLIVAN
.QUEEN STREET
m. LTD.
•SISBANE, Q’LOl.
For
Dog
BARKO
CONDITION POWDERS
PRICE 1/4 AT ALL CHEMISTS
CERTAIN DEATH
to RABBITS
ds
The safest, surest, and most economical solution of the rabbit
menace.
The only way to carry the maximum number of sheep is to clear
out all the rabbits.
CYam>gaS
SAVES
MANPOWER
“IT’S THE GAS THAT KILLS THEM”
BUZACOTT-WOLSELEY PTY.,
throughout Australia. 7-11 MARKET STREET, SYDNEY.
LTD.,
The MERCURY 51m. LATHE
Sole N.Z. Dist. Agents:
A. M, Satterthwaite
~ & Co. Ltd.
Hereford St.. Christchurch
"THE little GIANT
of the Lathe World’*
AVAILABLE FOR CASH or EASY TERMS
Manufactured by . v .
MARS Machine Tool
Manufacturing Co.Pty.Ltd.
BRIDGE STREET. VALLEY. BRISBANE
or Vic Lun a;
Thomas Herbert & Co. Pty., Irtd., 38 Market St., Melbourne.
3
j
I
I Sole N.S.W. bist. Agents >'
Thos. Herbert & Co. Pty. Ltdv
139 Clarence Street, Sydney
a
FOOD IS A WEAPON
a most powerful weapon
99
as
&
“The way we manage our food supply will have a lot to do
with how soon we win this war. Food is a weapon —a most
powerful weapon. And the food we consume here at home
is just as much a material of war as the food we send abroad
to our soldiers and our fighting alliessays Claude R.
Wickard, U.S. Secretary for Agriculture.
We, in Australia are facing food problems
similar to those of America, and can meet them
in the same way if we use our initiative.
“Caterpillar” Diesel Tractors, hauling the very latest in farm machin-
ery, can till the soil, sow and harvest in record time, working a 24-hour
schedule where necessary to keep faith on the food front.
The safe “Caterpillar” Track-type tread means that work can proceed
whether the going is wet or dry. While other equipment is waiting
for paddocks to dry “Caterpillar” is earning its keep. And, on big
scale operations, there is no comparison with “Caterpillar” fuel
economy or low maintenance cost.
“Caterpillar" pulling six row lettuce cultivator
on an 1800 acre lettuce farm in Colijornia.
'
m
-■
*
■■■■■ ..
m
m
* m*
m
ip*
wt*-
t i
If
m
t a R 'P/£S€L
*7 bth Tov.h s
” ACTO " S “ wH- «-* 11MITE0. ,
►RS o nd wAUGH J QueensJond
, KJ eW South V/of fiS —■»« I
cbpMSON
r* t iiiinPC
,02 475 -
'*“.gSS3^Macq«ari.
r,e - 102 Melbourne
~ .«k ’•ndfr* »*5-' **
SERVICE DEPARTMENT.
Wants.
To buy H. M. Green’s Australian Literature,
Tarleton Raymond’s Prince of the Totem, May
Gibbs’s Snugglepot and Cuddlepie, Little Ragged
Blossom and Little Obelia, M. and E.
Durack’s Chunuma, Norman Lindsay’s Satur-
dee and C. J. Dennis’s Roundabout. —3495.
To buy Anthology of the Turf, by Dexter.
3496.
Information Sought.
Is the administration of Papua a civil or a
military matter? Who is in charge of the
administrative unit?
The Territory of Papua is under full military
control, and is administered by an army unit
(Australian New Guinea Administration Unit)
functioning under the General Officer Com-
manding New Guinea Force. Major-General
B. Morris is the General Officer Commanding
A.N.G.A.U
How are price ceilings for secondhand goods
determined ? Do the regulations apply to
privately-arranged sales ?
Maximum prices for secondhand goods are
fixed dt 75 p.c. of the value of similar goods
new, as at 12/4/’43, and the provisions apply
to all types of sales. A separate scale is pro-
vided for refrigerators, washing machines and
sewing machines.
(a) Cost of maintaining the A.I.F. ? (b) Cost
of maintaining Commonwealth Public Service ?
(c) Cost of maintaining the combined public
services of the various States?
( a ) Cost of maintaining A.I.F. not - available.
( b ) and (c) Federal P.S. increased from 48,000
to 88,000 persons since 1939, not counting muni-
tions workers, etc. No decrease, as far as is
known, in State P.S. personnel. New Federal
departments: Prices Control, D.1.P., Rationing,
W. 0.1., Man-power, Land Transport, Recon-
struction, Information, Price Control cost
£173,000 in 1942-43; 1943-44 estimate was
£285,000. Rationing cost £327,000 in 1942-43;
1943-44 estimate, £416,000. Man-power was
expected to cost £1,231,000 in 1943-44.
How did the present form of church
marriages originate ?
Developed out of ancient usages, adopted by
the early church when it emphasised the sacra-
mental character of the contract. The old Sarum
Ritual has had a permanent influence on Eng-
lish ceremonies. The churches specify various
forms, all emphasising the contract.
A few details about the Australian bowler
Jack Ferris?
Born May 21, 1867. When 19 he gained a
place in the Australian XI for the Test against
England played in Sydney, was an immediate
success and bowled unchanged through Eng-
land’s innings with C. T. B. Turner. Ferris
secured four for 27 and the off-spinner six for
15. Ferris played in eight Tests and got 48
wicket's, costing 14.25 apiece. He played in
turn for N.S.W., Australia, S.A., Gloucester
and N.S.W. again. Died on Nov. 17, 1900,
at Durban (S. Africa).
Did Gene Tunney beat Bob Martin in 'the
American Expeditionary Forces heavyweight
tournament at London in 1918 ?
They never met, being in different classes.
Tunney won the heavyweight title and Martin
the light-heavyweight.
Did Joe Louis fight Primo Camera ?
They met in New York on June 25, 1935.
Camera was knocked out in the sixth round.
Brief Answers.
J.S.: All Popes have been Italian since 1523.
O.W.H.; Repeated applications of weed-
killer are the only remedy E.G.; Apply to
the Registrar of Probates, G.P.O. Box 2063 L,
Sydney F.B.McM.: Out of stock in Sydney.
E.M.: He is head of the A.W.C
D.J.K.; Passed to the “Woman’s Mirror”
N.S.F.: Coomallie (Kumali) is a word used by
the Kakadu tribe of Darwin, meaning secret
or forbidden. Other words given later
J.M.W.: Write C/o “Woman’s Letter,” The
Bulletin C.G.M.: Wash with hot water and
soap or washing soda, rinsing afterwards
V.R.: Try Levenson’s Radio, 226 Pitt-street,
Sydney.
Answers to Correspondents.
Name and address must appear on the MS. No
liability is undertaken re contributions voluntarily
submitted; and no M.S. will be relumed unless
stamps accompany. MS. should be addressed to
the Editor.
8.N.: What about writing on a fine Monday
instead of a wet Sunday? A.J.S.: Pleasant
lightweight J.F.: Might suit a daily
D.T.: Just an anecdote H.F.: A par. for a
woman’s paper E.J.P.: Off our beat
F. : “Monarch of all he surveyed”; “The
scene beggared description.” Make your own
phrases and don’t use cliches M.McI.:
Eternal triangle..l.McD.: You’ve slaughtered
a comedy of character for the sake of a com-
monplace wow ending J.L.S.: “I hate to
see anybody suffer.” Then why did you send
that story? J.V.H.: Cut the snakes up for
Abo. pars A.H.: “They Do Come Back.”
When they’re the same old ghost yarn, they
certainly do J.S.McD.: Frothy Z.R.:
Mechanical... .Flowers: “A tiny daisy said
‘Oh, Mummy, why can’t I be like Mrs. Butter-
cup?’” And we shall never know the answer,
for just at that moment some silly cow ate the
manuscript F.J.S.: Magazinish A.8.C.:
“Mum’s Port” is empty J.V.O’L.: Dead
Sweet Joe wandered on his way again, leaving
po impression of any sort C.G.: Immune
from “The Influence of Uncle Henry”
G. : Drop the impressionism and come
again D.U.: Not interested in blackmailers
and suicides N.H.T.: That sensitive school-
boy calls in here every week J. 8.: A long,
long journey to a very mild joke... .M. 0.:
Johnnie is as unreal as his twin brother is im-
probable and his sacrificial suicide incredible.
. ...J.McK.: Your Australians are speaking un-
convincing Cockney... .J.W.; Write out of
your own experience and observation.


Ruwolt
m
Size 60in. x 48in, Type RK Ruwolt Jaw Crusher ;
Finished Weight 135 Tons.
Recently designed and built by Ruwoll’s for the Broken
Hill Proprietary Company Limited, the Crusher illustrated
is a good example of the “heavy” type of engineering work
produced by Ruwolt’s.
Although now mainly engaged on munition work we are
also able to execute much of the requirements for the essential
Metal, Paper and Rubber Industries.
Then, when Australia has successfully overcome its
present difficulties, we will again be in a position to immediately
attend to all your requirements, similarly to what we have done
in the past.
CHARLES RUWOLT PTY. LTD.
530 Victoria Street, Richmond, E.l
Victoria, AUSTRALIA.
Made by
FORD SHERINOTON LTD.
fs
d
Owing to war
supplies of "Airway" are
not at present available.
Manufacturers of
G LO BITE Travel Cases
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
Bank of Australasia
To Re-
Oct., Profit. Dividends. serves. Reserves.
£ & £ &
1933.. 258,508 7J p.e.= 253,125* 5,383 4,650,166
Inner reserves disclosed, £106,000.. 4,766,166
1934.. 265,087 9if — 4,689,940
Centenary bonus to staff, £36,250.. 4,653,690
1935.. 273,857 7J p.c.= 270,281* 3,576 4,657,266
1936.. 300,962 8 „ „ 289,898* 11,064 4,668,380
1937.. 309,501 8 „ „ 297,000* 12,501 4,680,831
1938.. 310,049 8 „ „ 288,000* 22,049 4,702,880
1939.. 292,023 8 „ „ 282,797* 9,226 4,712,106
From inner reserves, £25,000 .. 4,737,106
1940.. 266,106 8 p.c.= 261,000* 5,106 4,742,212
1941.. 237,012 8 „ „ 263,625* 4,715,599
Tax written back, £20,000 .. .. 4,735,599
1942.. 168,570 6 p.c.= 191,812* 4,712,357
1943.. 215,167 6 „ „ 194,250* 20,907 4,733,264
* After deducting tax. t Includes 2 p.c. centenary
bonus.
The air is full at the moment of wordy
warfare on the relative merits of unham-
pered private enterprise and Govern-
ment planning of economic developments.
No democratic State is wholly without
compulsory organisation in its economy
and none is wholly without freedom. The
question at issue is the length to which
Government planning can be carried
without impeding industrial and other
efficiency, and therefore thg national
effort. Wnat needs to be recognised is
that, while profit-minded enterprise can-
not be allowed to become anti-social,
social-minded Government activity can-
not be pursued regardless of economic
cost. An industrial democracy cannot
accept Government-controlled everything
and remain a democracy. Recent experi-
ence in spheres other than banking sug-
gest that further extension of Govern-
ment control —which might be taken as
» another name for nationalisation —would,
if long continued under peace conditions,
be a misadventure.
The trader’s risk of loss has been greatly
increased by the heavy load of restric-
tions and prior charges put upon him.
and his elbow is being constantly jogged
by all manner of inspectors and prohibi-
tions, thus dulling the incentive to grasp
those new opportunities, speculative and
otherwise, which add up to progress, full
employment, social security and a higher
standard of living. The mainspring
of progress is individual enterprise and
ambition. Destroy these and there will
be no mainspring at all.
War, financed largely by central bank
credit, has created new* industries, stimu-
lated old ones, lifted wages, increased
employment and swelled gross earnings
of many traders. It has also created diffi-
culties associated with finance, labor,
production and distribution, including
shipping. Further, Treasury-bill finance,
stimulated by heavy Allied war ex-
penditure, has built up a volume of
purchasing power without, the counter-
weight of an adequately increased supply
of goods on which to spend the money.
The consequent inflationary boom is
therefore due to exceptional and tem-
porary factors.
Pressure on prices has been re-
strained by controls, including freez-
ing of increases in bank deposits
since 1939, additional taxation, raising of
voluntary loans, control of capital expen-
diture and transfer, rationing of consump-
tion goods and imposition of a price-ceil-
ing, etc. End of the war will remove
many of the exceptional and temporary
factors just referred to. Government
already has powers necessary to enable
it to fulfil its true function of regulator
in the field of private enterprise, without
industrial conscription.
In Australia the emphasis in Govern-
. ment postrwar planning is on retention of
bureaucratic controls. In Britain and
U.S.A. it is on freedom of individual
enterprise and relaxation of controls. In
S. Africa the "Government created an
Industrial Development Corp. with a
capital of £5,000,000. The object is to
encourage establishment of new and
extension of existing industries able to
absorb S. African primary products.
Canada has set up an Industrial Develop-
ment Bank to make credit available to
small industrial projects. Here the idea
is to supplement, not replace, other
lenders in the field.
As for the trading banks in Aus-
tralia, many controls (previously ana-
lysed in these columns) to which
they are now subject are likely to
remain. The ticklish question of con-
trol over the direction in which money
is spent might well be restored to the
banks, whose services in this and other
respects have made them a pillar of
strength in the past. And no harm would
be done by raising the present low “ceil-
ing” for bank profits, which ignores the
risk and cost factors altogether.
Under the present controlled and
rationed economy, Government financial
policy dominated the banking structure,
common features of which are shrinkage
in advances and heavy growth in deposits
and liquids. Here are the ’Asia’s balance-
sheet figures:
1939. 1942. 1943.
Paid capital .. £4,500,000 £4,500,000 £4,600,000
Notes .. .. 2,732 2,697 2,668
Bills, etc 5,711,816 6,316,687 5,816,109
Deposits .. .. 40,921,527 51,776,988 56,106,503
Liquid assets .. 16,228,593 31,687,582 36,735,460
Bills, etc. .. 2,466,733 2,969,277 2,452,975
Advances .. .. 36,534,456 31,940,227 31,266,740
Premises .. .. 770,275 818,894 818,889
Last term a contraction of £673,487 in
advances and £516,302 in bills receivable,
etc., was accompanied by a growth of
£4,329,515 in deposits and £5,047,878 in
low-interest-bearing liquids. Special war-
time deposit with the Commonwealth
Bank was £11,990,000, carrying only 15s.
p.c. interest. The bank is in a splendid
position to meet post-war demands for
assistance from trade and industry when
they arise.
The improvement of £46,587 in the
year’s net earnings was due to a drop of
£22,460 in the aggregate tax bill
(£554,518) and a saving of £70,142 in
exes. (£717,346), owing partly to closure
of branches and partly to employment
of women in place of men called up for
service. Gross earnings (£1,487,021) were
£46,014 lighter. The £215,157 of profit
claimed Was approx. 4.6 p.c. on capital,
or a mere 2.3 p.c. on shareholders’ funds
(capital and reserves combined). The div.
was kept at 6 p.c., equal to 5.4 p.c. after
allowing for English income tax at ss. 7d.
in the pound and exchange.
Ballarat Brewing Co., Ltd.
To Re- Re-
May, Profit. Dividends. serves. serves.
£ £ £ £
1936.. 38,048 111 p.c. = 19,516 18,532 141,172
Share premiums, £65,000 .. .. 206,172
1937.. 38,553 124 p.c. = 29,318 9,235 \„ n 4g6
Brokerage, etc., written off, £3911 J
1938.. 42,498 124 p.c. = 31,249 11,249 222,745
Pref. Ord. Total.
1939. . 46,008 6 p.c. 124 P-c. 33,750 12.258- 235,003
1940.. 40,683 6 „ 111 „ 35,625 5,058 240,061
1941.. 34,502 6 „ 10 „ 32,500 2,002 242,063
1942.. 31,145 6 „ 8| „ 29,375 1,770 243,833
1943.. 42,258 6 „ 74 „ 26,250 16,008 259,841
1944.. 35,086 6 „ 74 „ 26,250 9,436 269,277
The effect of beer rationing on earn-
ings was more than offset by local service
demands, which also helped to soften the
blow from lifts in excises and other taxa-
tion and costs generally. Hence the im-
, provement in the 1943 profit figure. Now
the position has changed again. The
board says:—
The full impact of the restrictions has
not yet been felt because we were supplying
substantial quantities to troops in our area,
in the first few months of this financial
year, who have now left the State for other
parts.
Most of the co.’s civilian trade is with
the food-producing areas of western Vic-
toria and the N. S. Wales Riverina, and
has therefore been affected by denuda-
tion of rural population, owing to army
and other call-ups and the drift citywards
on account of munition and other manu-
facturing activity. Civilian consumption
is pegged at two-thirds of the Jan.-Feb.,
1942, level, and has been ever since the
beginning of March, 1942. Excise, now
4s. 7d. per gallon, has increased by 2s.
lOd. per gallon since close of accounts
in 1939, lifts being 3d. 1939, 9d. 1940,
3d. 1941 and Is. 7d. 1942.
There has been no advance in this co.’s
selling price of beer since as far back
as 1920, except to cover increases in
excise, which have been passed on to
hotelkeepers and over the counter to con-
sumers in a combination of price lifts and
adjustment in the size of containers. The
next table shows the Melbourne increase
in hotel selling prices since 1939 for three
separate classes of containers and bottled
beer, as well as the difference between the
j increase in excise per gallon and the
increase in selling price per gallon, or
gross profit thereon: —
Total Price Increase
Increase Since 1989. Gross Profit.
in Excise Size of,- A -,on Increased
Since Con- Per Con- Per Duty Per
1989. tainer. tainer. Gallon. Gallon.
0 in . f lloz. 2id. 3s. Oid. Os. 2Jd.
2 J 2d. 3s. lOd. Is. Od.
1 4oz. Id. 3s. 4d. Os. fid.
gallon. Bottled 7d. 3s. 6d. Os. 8d.
Calculations are based on 11-ounce,
23 seven-ounce and 40 four-ounce con-
tainers and six bottles to the gallon.
Obviously it pays hotelkeepers to sell as
many 7oz. glasses as they can. For a
nine-gallon keg the brewery gets 56s. 9d.,
of which the Government takes 41s. 3d.,
leaving 15s. 6d. to cover production, dis-
tribution and other costs, plus profit for
the co.
Last term gross earnings (£127,531)
fell away £14,380, making the slip £23,651
since the close of accounts in 1942. Exes.
(£95,345, including taxation and £8619
for depreciation) were got back £10,309.
Taking into the reckoning £3500 added to
post-war repairs reserve (labor and
materials are not now available) and
allowing for reserves adjustments in 1943,
the net result was £6572 lighter at £35,686.
After paying the pref. div. enough re-
mained to show 11.2 p.c. on the £250,000
of ord. capital as against 13.8, 9.4, 10.8,
13.2 and 17.4 p.c. back to 1939, when
taxation and costs generally were a lot
lighter than they are now, or are likely
to be after the war. The div, was kept
at 1\ p.c., having come down by annual
steps from I2i p.c. in 1939.
The financial position improved: —
1938. 1942. 1943. 1944.
Paid capital.. £250,000 £375,000 £375,000 £375,000
Mortgages .. 38,500 116,000 111,500 103,600
Overdraft .. 66,175 40,784 20,991 14,877
Sundry creditors 13,107 10,627 11,182 9,945
Tax reserve .. 10,500 27,000 29,000 25,000
Brewery, hotels,
etc. .. 425,652 564,194 564,189 563,855
Plant, etc. .. 49,500 65,000 61,500 61,500
Stock.. .. 24,872 35,715 28,825 85,466
Sundry debtors 111,412 146,737 142,668 127,647
Shares other cos. 853 346 346 346
Cash, etc. .. 5,904 17,502 26,556 30,568
The year’s growth in the more or less
liquid surplus (£40,705) was £14,983. The
vigorous policy of hotel purchase, which
more than doubled the book value of
fixed assets during the four years to the
close of accounts in 1940, thus widening
and anchoring turnover, should mean
much in what might prove difficult post-
war years.
Walter Reid and Co,, Ltd. (Q.)
Writ- To Re- Re-
May, Profit. Dividends. ten Off. serves, serves.
£ £ £ £ £
1934.. 27,070 8 p.c.= 20,000 2,913 4,157 263,325
1935.. 31,338 8 „ ,, 20,000 1,759 9,579 272,904
1936.. 31,802 8 ,,,,20,000 1,957 9.845 282,749
1937.. 33,068 8 „ ,, 20,000 2,992 10,076 292,825
1938.. 36,645 8 ,, ,, 20.000 2,955 12,690 305,515
1939.. 34,117 8 „ ,, 20,000 3.135 10,982 316,497
1940.. 36,634 8 „ ,, 20,000 4,993 11,641 328,138
1941.. 30,721 8 ,, „ 20.000 4,140 6,581 334,719
1942.. 26,073 8 ,,,,20,000 14,930 — 325,862
Added insurance reserve, £8325 .. 334,187
1943.. 19,688 8 p.c.=: 20,000 2,899 — 330,976
Added to reserves, £11,675 .. .. 342,651
1944.. 32,037 9 p.c.= 22,500 ) g 801 343 452
To staff fund, £5000 ..
It has been a seller’s market, and re-
tailers, for the most part, have found
difficulty in getting regular deliveries of
adequate supplies of merchandise —many
lines are now unobtainable, most others
are in short supply, and quality has fallen
and prices have risen. Still, rationing and
the price ceiling have kept turnover in
check, while taxation and costs generally
have taken progressively deeper bites out
of takings. Transport difficulties, ren-
dered more acute by defence needs, com-
plicated the position, and the co.’s Syd-
ney branch withdrew from the difficult
dry-goods field, in which there is little
profit at the best of times. Also, the
restricted expenditure of pastoralists on
maintenance and improvements didn t do
turnover any good either. All these
things, among others, help to explain
movements in net earnings since war
began. ,
Headquarters is at Rockhampton, ana
the co. has strong connections in the cen-
tral and far-west parts of the State.
The position improved last term, and
the board figured gross earnings £4854
Gross
Profit. Exes.
1929.. £128,432 £81,456
1931.. 92,044 74,472
1933.. 81,298 57,882
1936.. 87,592 55,789
1938.. 101,091 66,446
Gross *
Profit. Exes.
1940.. £106,144 £69,510
1941.. 106,030 74,309
1942.. 105,185 79,112
1943.. 72,178 52,491
1944.. 77,032 44,995
Including an unspecified allowance for


Queensland
Insurance Co.
Ltd.
Head Office:
Pitt & Bridge Streets,
Sydney.
The Largest
Australian Company
Transacting
Fire, Marine, Accident, House-
holders’ Comprehensive, Workers'
Compensation, Boiler Explosion,
Machinery Breakdown, Aviation,
etc.
ARE YOU GETTING
CLEAR WATER?
SEND FOR BOOKLET
AND PRICES OF
ABBOT
THE
AUSTRALIAN
GUTHRIDGE,
GEORGES?,
CAMPERDOWN,
SYDNEY,
MANUFACTURERS
F I LT
niter
Cylinder
To
GUTHRIDGE Pty. Limited,
10-12 Parramatta Road, Camperdown,
Sydney, N.S.W.
BRANDALERS
fVt
fPENS
Every point
guaranteed
do not experiment with imitations,
a iuimbh * oft. lmu saimeHAiL kho
RUPTURE
. NO PADS—NO SPRINGS
The latest invention of Dr.
L. Barrere is the result of 40
years’ practice and improve-
ments. Stupendous success
of new method of control.
The NEO-fcARRERE acts
like the hand when placed
flat upon the orifice. You
will at once without
effort and in all move-
ment* hold the intes-
tine in its cavity.
Write To-day for
FREE LITERATURE.
BARBERS DISTRIBUTION CO.
(Dept. 21A), 243 ELIZABETH ST.. SYDNEY.
ACTS
LIKE THE HRIID
INVENTORS. —Have you an idea worth patenting?
Griffith, Hassel and Griffith, Patent Attorneys,
Asbestos House, Or. York and Barrack Streets, Sydney,
obtain Commonwealth and foreign patents.—Advt.
* * * *
DAVIES & COLLISON, Patent Attorneys, Collins
House, 360 Collins Street, Melbourne, C.l. Austra-
lian and overseas Patents and Trade Marks. —Advt.
Divorce Notices.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW SOUTH
WALES— In Divorce.
TO ROBERT NEIL SUTTON a member of the Aus-
tralian Military Forces N 436381. —TAKE NOTICE
that GEORGE FRANCIS CHESHER has filed a Peti-
tion for Divorce No. 1761 of 1944 against bis wife
MARIE JANE CHESHER on the grounds of her
adultery with you. If you wish to defend you may
enter an appearance at the Divorce Office Supreme
Court King Street Sydney by the Twenty-third day
of August One thousand nine hundred and forty-
four and obtain a copy of the petition without
charge from ADRIAN C. R. TWIGG Solicitor 160
Castlereagh Street Sydney.— (l.s.) C. K. BODY,
Registrar.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW SOUTH
WALES —In Divorce.
TO FREDERICK JOSEPH GRAY late of Sydney.—
TAKE NOTICE that DULCIE CHARLOTTE GRAY
has filed a Petition for Divorce No. 1783 of 1944
on the grounds of desertion without just cause or
excuse for three years and upwards If you wish to
defend you may enter an appearance at the Divorce
Office Supreme Court King Street Sydney by the
First day of September One thousand nine hundred
and forty-four and obtain a copy of the petition
without charge from C. P. WHITE & CO. Solicitors
160 Castlereagh Street Sydney.—(l.s.) C. K. BODY,
Registrar in Divorce.
Shake the BRYLCREEM jar this way
As all the Brylcreem at present being made is going to the Services, please
make the most of it when you have a supply. A few drops, well rubbed in,
will be sufficient to keep your hair smart and healthy. And remember.
fs
"expert" shaking makes the
cream fluid, enabling you to con-
trol the flow. In a few seconds
you'll be able to measure an
economical quantity from the
even-flowing cream.
Don’t spend. Lend. Put your money into 5/- National Savings Stamps.
\%V
L
rr
Ocve
0*
val!
K
s
$
CO
fee
j*4?v-
.r^r
•cv:
rSSSr
f^5
Here is a gypsum finishing plaster which is
really iough ... a hardwall plaster which, used neat, gives a smooth, glossy, pore
white, sanitary finish, capable of standing up to all the hard wear in the world.
Being free from alkali and lime, this Plaster will not stain wallpapers or saponify
paint. Immediately the wall dries out, therefore, an ideal base for any decoration
is provided. C.S.R. Concord Plaster is specially ground and processed, not only
to ensure ease of mixing and working, but to
facilitate its gauging with lime putty when less
hard surfaces are wanted. It is, of course, essential
that this work be done by expert plasterers.
Packed in Jute Bags .
C. S. R.
CONCORD
PLASTER
A C.S.R. PRODUCT
THE COLONIAL SUGAR REFINING COMPANY LTD. Building Materials Division
SYDNEY . . . MELBOURNE . . . BRISBANE . . . ADELAIDE . . . PERTH
P 22-44
UWTf Ois
<</
-A
-A
Cl
m
s
vA
V*'
s
Also Special Mild
and Full Strength
It’s your /ig/a —your money is needed now .
Buy Far Savings Certificates and
5/. National Savings Stamps.
2040-6.44
bad debts and taxation, exes, were £7496
lighter.. The £32,037 (up £12,349) of
profit shown was 12.8 p.c. on the quarter-
million of share capital as against 7.8,
10.4, 12.2 and 14.6 p.c. for the four pre-
ceding terms. That was before making
visible allowance for depreciation, etc.
(shown as written off in the introductory
table), which was done with a heavy hand
in 1942 ; it also leaves out of the reckon-
ing £11,675 dropped from somewhere
into reserves. In the previous term there
was an unexplained addition to reserves
of £8325. A point was added to the div.,
making it 9 p.c., and £5OOO was sent to
staff provident fund.
For over 40 years the cautious manage-
ment has been building up the co.’s shock-
absorbers, visible and otherwise. Its suc-
cess can be judged from the fact that paid
capital advanced from £93,750 at the
beginning of this century to its present
figure with the aid of only £11,250 of
cash subscriptions. And when the books
last closed reserves exceeded paid capital
by £93,452, which means that capital and
reserves combined need turn in only a
shade over 3.7 p.c. to show 9 p.c. on
capital alone. Here are balance-sheet
figures:
1940. 1942. 1943. 1944.
Paid capital. . £250,000 £250,000 £250,000 £250,000
Sundry crs... 49,110 51,442 31,783 21,354
Tax provision 24,262 29,417 80,845 85,946
Freeholds and
plant . . 62,102 57,906 54,809 24,964
Stock.. .. 161,962 154,318 124,704 126,780
Book debts . . 59,468 56,683 50,976 38,084
Cash . . . . 39,225 44,670 42,703 52,563
Investments . . 338,753 353,144 379,862 425,863
Stocks (up £2076) are £35,182 below the
1941 figure, which reflects the difficulty
in obtaining merchandise. Investments
(up £46,001) consist largely of Govern-
ment securities. The year’s improvement
in the more or less liquid surplus
(£585,990, equal to 465. lid. per f,-p.
pound share) was £49,823. With more
money invested outside the business (in
liquid form) than in it, the co. is excep-
tionally well equipped to enlarge its acti-
vities and/or return part of its capital.
What happens wall largely depend upon
the extent to which the activities of
traders are hedged in by Government
controls after the war.
Satupulo, N.L.
For the 12 months to the end of March
last Satupulo earned £658 in interest.
Exes, amounted to £7OB, including tax
(£6B). When the books were ruled off
liquid assets in Australia totalled £29,656
—Commonwealth bonds £lO,OOO and
mostly fixed deposit, £19,656. In
the absence of information, assets in
Thailand and Malaya remain in the ac-
counts at £165,326, of which £139,345
represents mine, dredge, etc., and the
balance mostly stocks and stores. Liabili-
ties total £6821, of which £6781 is com-
ing to sundry creditors in Malaya.
In an action against the buffer pool
executive for payment of Siam’s share in
the pool direct to contributing cos., the
English High Court ordered that the
amount in dispute be paid to the cus-
todian of enemy property, with a sugges-
tion that ways and means might be found
Of making the money available to the
cos. concerned. Satupulo’s contribution
to the pool was 30.9 tons metal, in the
books at £4703, but expected to realise
£A8836, of which £A2517 has been re-
ceived, leaving £A6319 to come.
The co. was formed in Melbourne in
1926 to work a property at Takuapa,
Siam. Its early days were heavy going,
owing to buried timber, heavy sands and
hard clay bottom. But pref. arrears of
16s. a share were cleared in 1934, and
to the close of accounts in 1940 the ords.
had received divs. totalling 21s. per f.-p.
pound share. When operations ceased,
owing to enemy occupation, there was
over 45,000,000 c.y. of 9oz. wash to be
dug. That was equal to over 32 years’
work for the Werf Conrad dredge at the
then current rate of turnover. What dam-
age has been done to property and plant,
and what compensation, if any, the co.
will be entitled to recover, cannot be
ascertained until after the war.
E. T. Miles, who used to be chairman,
died recently at Ringwood (Vic.) in his
95th year. He founded Tongkah Harbor
Tin Dredging, first Australian-controlled
tin-dredger to operate in Asia, and, in
association with A. W. Palfreyman, did
much for Australian tin-dredging interests
in Malaya and Siam.
The well-off Lake View and Investment
Trust’s sterling profit for year ended
March 31 last is £45,941, compared with
£42,122 for the preceding 12 months. Un-
changed dividends (5 p.c. pref. and 9 p.c.
ord.) take £37,505. Investments, which
total 484, have a book value of over
£2,000,000, and are worth a lot more. At
the time of its formation in 1920 the co.
kicked off with assets and investments
which included big blocks of Australian
mining shares acquired from Lake View
and Oroya Exploration. Later it un-
loaded most of its Australian holdings,
and more recently still has turned atten-
tion to British bonds.
* * * *
Sons of Gwalia (W.A.) is paying a
first and final div. for 1943 of Is.
(sterling) a share, less U.K. income tax,
at the end of August. As the co. has con-
siderable cash in hand, a bigger payment
was. expected. The 1942 distribution,
made last August, was 2s. (sterling) a
share.
According to latest estimates aggregate
ore reserves blocked out in eight mines
on the Kalgoorlie Golden Mile (W.A.)
„ r .
are 9,000,000 tons, gross value about
£25,000,000. Average grade ranges from
sdwt. to 6idwt. a ton. Lake View tops
the list with 4,000,000 tons, Gt. Boulder
follows with approx. 2,500,000 tons, and
North Kalgurli comes next with just
over 1,000,000 tons. Otere are °
Mines of Kalgoorlie 550,000 tons, rannga
£ b2 qqq tons, Kalgoorlie Enterprise
2 50’,000 tons, Boulder Perseverance
240,760 tons, and South Kalgurli 210,000
tons.


• 4 l.ass* e ‘
\>e v» ciV
“If everyone saved like you, there’d be no need
for appeals for money to fight the war.
“You see—there’s plenty of money in Australia
which could be lent. It just so happens that a lot
of folks who have it prefer to waste it on things
they don’t really need.
“It’s not very fair to our fighting forces, is it?”
POX
BUY 6d. War Savings Stamps, from any Money Order
Post Office. OR War Savings Certificates, from any
Bank, Savings Bank, or Money Order Post Office.
OR 5/- National Savings Stamps, from any Savings
Bank or Money Order Post Office.
5C.3.26
Business,Rollery,Etc.
The Road to Serfdom
An Australian friend in London has
forwarded a copy of The Road to Serf-
dom, by F. A. Hayek, Professor of Eco-
nomic Science in the University of Lon-
don. It is profoundly interesting and, for
Australians, undoubtedly the book of the
month for August. Dymocks, of Sydney,
have made an Australian printing of it.
Hayek is a Liberal. He stands for
Liberalism against Socialism in all its
guises; and he maintains that Socialism,
whether it takes the shape of Commu-
nism, Fascism or Nazism, is inherently an
obstruction to human harmony and de-
velopment. Thoroughly but incisively he
goes through the history and philosophy
of Socialism. The author says “this is a
political book” ; but to many laymen it
will read as a faithful and judicial inves-
tigation of the towering political prob-
lems of this moment of world history.
The debunking of wishful thinkers, Left-
wing writers and fanatical “planners” is
done as though by a Judge on, the Bench.
But the book is crisply written, and
should be refreshing to minds which feel
that the world, including Australia, is in
danger of going politically crazy.
Hayek says that at the turn of the cen-
tury the success of free enterprise began
to be taken more and more for granted,
and was no longer recognised as the result
of a policy of freedom:
It might be said that the very success of
Liberalism became the cause of its decline.
Because of the success already achieved man be-
came increasingly unwilling to tolerate the evils
still with him which now appeared both un-
bearable and unnecessary.
So, instead of learning from mistakes,
there was a demand by “planners” for
a complete remodelling of society. “It
was no longer a question of adding to or
improving the existing machinery, but
completely scrapping and replacing it.”
The progress of science and invention
assisted in unsettling minds too easily dis-
tracted from the real economic and ad-
ministrative problems confronting them.
Early it was realised in the Continental
birthplace of Socialism that the individual
freedom of democracy was impossible
under Socialism, so' a new “freedom” had
to be thought up —“economic freedom,”
against which, it was contended, “politi-
cal freedom” was not worth having.
Hayek proceeds to show by the several
practical European examples how this
false “economic freedom” has invariably
led to dictatorship and the loss of all real
freedom—even freedom of recreation. '
He says:
There is more than a superficial similarity
between the trend of thought in Germany during
and after the last war and the present current
ideas in this country [Britain]. There exists
now in this country certainly the same deter-
mination that the organisation of the nation we
have achieved for the purpose of defence shall
be retained for the purposes of creation [pro-
duction]. There is the same contempt for
nineteenth-century Liberalism, the same spurious
“realism” and even cynicism, the same fatal-
istic acceptance of “inevitable trends.”
Irt support of his own creed:
The Liberal argument is in favor of making
the best possible use of the forces of com-
petition as a means of co-ordinating human
efforts, not as an argument for leaving things
just as they are. It is based on the convic-
tion that where effective competition can be
created it is a better way of guiding individual
efforts than any other. It does not deny, but
even emphasises, that in order that competi-
tion should work beneficially a carefully-
thought-out legal framework is required, .and
that neither the existing nor the past rules are
free from grave defects.
He points out that the preservation of
competition is not incompatible with an
extensive system of social services—“so
long as the organisation of these services
is not designed in such a way as to make
competition ineffective over wide fields.”
“The modern movement for planning
is a movement against competition as
such, a new flag under which all the old
enemies of competition have rallied.” It
is the thin edge of the Socialist wedge—
this “central” planning which is to be the
substitute of competition, not the plan-
ning which is” part and parcel of competi-
tion. The grow|h of Government-favored
monopolies, first in Germany and then in
other parts of the world, is indicative of
a trend towards central planning.
The last card of the totalitarian-
minded is the protest that conditions have
got into such a mess that central planning
is inevitable, not merely as a remedy but
as a permanent substitute. “The intel-
lectual history of the last 60 or 80 years
is indeed a perfect illustration of the
truth that in social evolution nothing is
inevitable but thinking makes it so,” says
Hayek. And as to the strong support
given to central planning by technical
experts and others not so expert, “it is
the frustration of his ambitions in his
own field which makes the specialist
revolt against the existing order.” But
to give one expert his full head might
mean the even greater frustration of other
experts—as well as most ordinary citizens.
Capitalism in democracy:
It is now often said that democracy will not
tolerate “Capitalism.” If “Capitalism” means
here a competitive system based on free dis-
posal over private property, if is far more im-
portant to realise that only within this systeiy
is democracy possible. When it becomes domi-
nated by a collective creed, democracy will
inevitably destroy itself.
• What our generation has forgotten is that
the system of private property is the most im-
portant guarantee of freedom, not only for
those who own property, but scarcely less for
those who do not. It is only because the con-
trol of the means of production is divided
among many people acting independently that
nobody has complete power over us, that we as
individuals can decide what to do with our-
selves
It has been well said that, while the last
resort of a competitive economy is the bailiff,
the ultimate sanction of a planned economy is
the hangman.
Returning to the dangers of large-scale
central planning:
There can be no doubt that planning neces-
sarily involves deliberate discrimination between
particular needs of different people, and allow-
ing one man to do what another must be pre-
vented from doing. It must lay down by a
legal rule how well off particular people shall
be and what particular people are to be allowed
to have and do.
“Nothing distinguishes more clearly con-
ditions in a free country from those in
a country under arbitrary government
than the observance in the former of the
great principles known as the Rule of
Law,” But;
By giving the Government unlimited powers
the most arbitrary rule can be made legal;
and in this way a democracy may set up the
most complete despotism imaginable
The more the State plans, the more
difficult planning becomes for the indi-
vidual ;
During the Liberal era the progressive divi-
sion of labor [specialisation] has created a
situation where almost every one of our activities
is part of a social process. This is a development
which we cannot reverse, since it is only be-
cause of it that we can maintain the vastly in-
creased population at anything like present
standards. But, in consequence, the substitution
of central planning for competition would re-
quire direction of a much greater part of our
lives than was ever attempted before. It could
not stop at what we regard as our economic
activities, because we are now for almost every
part of our lives dependent on somebody else’s
economic activities.
Under Socialism:
The word “truth” itself ceases to, have its old
meaning. It describes no longer something
to be found, with the individual conscience as
the sole arbiter of' whether in any particular
instance the evidence (or the standing of those
proclaiming it) warrants a belief; it becomes
something to be laid down by authority, some-
thing which has to be believed in the interest
of the unity of the organised effort, and which
may have to be altered as the exigencies of this
organised effort require it I leave it for the
reader to guess whether it was in Germany or
Russia where chess players were officially ex-
horted that “we must finish once and for all
with the neutrality of chess. We must condemn
once and for all the formula ‘chess for the
sake of chess,’ like the formula ‘art for art’s
sake.’ ”
As to recent Socialistic trends in
Britain;
Men like Lord Morley or Henry Sidgwick,
Lord Acton or A. V. Dicey, who were then
admired in the world at large as outstand-
ing examples of the political wisdom of Liberal
England, are to the present generation largely
obsolete Victorians. Perhaps nothing shows
this change more clearly than that, while there
is no lack of sympathetic treatment of Bismarck
in contemporary English literature, the name
of Gladstone is rarely mentioned by the
younger generation without a sneer over his
Victorian morality and naive utopianism.
Confusion as to the achievements of a
war-time economy;
The only exception to the rule that a free
society must not be subjected to a single pur-
pose is war and other temporary disasters when
subordination of almost everything to the
immediate and pressing need is the price at
which we preserve our freedom in the long run.
This explains also why so many fashionable
phrases about doing for the purposes of peace
what we have learnt to do for the purposes of
war are so very misleading: it is sensible tem-
porarily to sacrifice freedom in order to make
it more secure in the future; but the same
cannot be said for a system proposed as a
permanent arraneement.
Leftism and British traditions:
The virtues possessed by the British people,
possessed in a higher degree than most other
people, excepting only a few of the smaller
nations, like the Swiss and the Dutch, were
independence and self-reliance, individual initia-
tive and local responsibility, the successful re-
liance on voluntary activity, non-interference
with one’s neighbor and tolerance of the
different and the queer, respect for custom and
tradition, and a healthy suspicion of power and
authority. British strength, British character
and British achievements are to a great extent
the cultivation of the spontaneous. But almost
all the traditions and institutions in which British
moral genius has found its most characteristic
expression, and which in turn have moulded
the national character and whole moral climate
of England, are those which the progress of
collectivism and its inherently centralist'ic ten-
dencies are progressively destroying The
Left intelligentsia, indeed, have so long wor-
shipped foreign gods that they seem to have be-
come almost incapable of seeing any good in
the characteristic English institutions and tra-
ditions.
So far as the post-war world is con-
cerned, “we’ shall all be the gainers if we
can create a world fit for small States to
live in.”
And with a final quotation—
Though the subject has already invited more
than one reference to Milton, it is difficult to
resist the temptation to add here one more
quotation, a very familiar one, though one, it
seems, which nowadays no one but a foreigner
would dare to cite: “Let not England forget
her precedence of teaching nations how to live.”
It is, perhaps, significant that our generation
has seen a host of American and English de-
tractors of Milton, and that the first of them,
Mr. Ezra Pound, was during this war broad-
casting from Italy!—
it is appropriate to close with the bio-
graphical note that Professor Hayek is
Austrian-born ; he spent about half his
adult life in his native country, and the
rest in the United States and England.
Munitions Minister Makin has an-
nounced that if the Commonwealth gets
the powers it is asking for under the
Referendum it will turn some of its
munition factories over to the manu-
facture of peace-time goods. In B.
19/7/’44 it was mentioned that there had
talk of Government-produced domestic
appliances,
* * * *
The Commonwealth Arbitration Court
has been granted power to increase the
minimum women’s wage in industries
declared vital. There appears to be diffi-
culty in persuading some women to
change from well-paid work to lower-
paid but more vital work. In the cotton-
spinning and weaving trades, for instance,
there has been a big shortage of labor
for a considerable period.
♦ * ♦ ♦
In Maoriland since the outbreak of
war the rise in the money wages has
been 15 p.c. In the Commonwealth the
inflation in the basic wage as a result of
rising living costs has been 22 p.c. But
both the “pegging” of living costs and
wages in Australia has been to some
extent a fiction.
* * * *
In a printing of his Summer School
paper, A New Social Order, Dr. .loyd
Ross, who is Director of Public Rela-
tions, Ministry of Post-war Reconstruc-
tion, mentions “the great depression of
1938-41.” Possibly this is a misprint.
So far as the year 1938 is concerned, it
had the lowest peace - time record
of unemployment for many years
—for the March quarter of 1938
there was a smaller ratio of trade-
union unemployment than in 1914.
It is doubtful whether Australia ever
experienced greater prosperity than in
the few years immediately preceding the
present war. For some sections of the
people it may have been a rather “soft”
sort of prosperity—a rush on motor-cars,
radios, sex papers and bathing beauties
—but it also was a period of low-cost
homebuilding and economical living.
There were cheap taxis, home-delivery
of nearly everything, and a number
point, were around the low points touched
point, were around the low points hoisted
in the depression period of 1930-
33. House-rents in some cases were
high. But this was largely because of
the discouragement of investors to build
homes caused by restrictive local-gov-
ernment exactions and regulations, and
by the methods of assessing improved
and unimproved valuations. Fewer cot-
tages and more flats were built as a
result. The tragedy about pre-war living
conditions in Australia is that so few
people knew how really good they were,
and that most of their deficiencies were
due to political causes. Our political
deficiencies have become exaggerated
since the war began.
* * * *
Before the war the Australian people
held most of their currency in pound
notes. They held about £lO in £1 de-
nominations for every fiver. Nowadays
the value of the fivers is greater than the
aggregate of the “singles.” The aggre-
gate of notes of all denominations held
by the public has increased more than
four times since war begaff The hold-
ing of tenners has increased sixfold,
though they still occupy third place in
popularity. The holding of “half-notes
has not quite doubled. The popularity
of the larger denominations is to an
extent a reflection of the tax-evasion and
black-marketing that are going on in the
Commonwealth.
* * * *
Canada’s latest war loan, in which the
equivalent of £340 million Australian was
asked for, has been oversubscribed by
£62 million. Every Canadian war loan
has met with great support from the
people as well as from the “financial insti-
tutions,”


Bank of New South Wales
PERSONAL LOANS
DEPARTMENT
Trust Big., King & Castiereagh Sts.,
Sydney
Phones; MA6007/8
and at all branches
Public Notice.
I, LUIGI GARIGLIO, of Italian nationality, born at
Rome, Italy, and resident 37 years in Australia, now
residing at 70 Beecroft Road, Epping, N.S.W., in-
tend to apply for naturalisation under the Nationality
Act 1920-1936.
Personal and Missing Friends,
ANY person knowing the whereabouts of JOHN
THOMAS WEBB, formerly of Portland, but last
heard of in Queensland (a brother of Agnes Gardner
Webb and Sophia Lambley Webb), or his family is
requested to communicate with THE PUBLIC TRUS-
TEE, 412 Collins Street, Melbourne.
L\
& \
tier
Wj.
PS
m
ID
' 1
:»1
l’i
s*
For Quality Suits
GUARANTEED NEVER TO FADE OR SHRINK
BUY £lO WAR BONDS AND WAR SAVINGS CERTIFICATES
I
ANAESTHETICS FROM OIL
? & •-
m
i
ns
M< v i
u
*
SB
M
o«c ¥
><
VACUUM
QUALITY PRODUCTS
... . another contribution to mankind by the
Oil Industry! Never before in history has the
need for anaesthetics been so great as it is
to-day. Forward Operating Theatres in New
Guinea and on other battle fronts are daily
performing marvels in surgical skill, with the
aid of modern anaesthetics-the result of the
Oil Chemist s research.
ETHYLENE-a petroleum product, has been
proved to have properties superior to those
of ether or nitrous oxide. Deep surgical
anaesthesia is readily induced by Ethylene
and insensibility to pain comes quickly.
Furthermore, when Ethylene is used, a gen-
eral feeling of well being and comfort is
present, with no post operative dangers due
to pneumonia and nausea.
Still another petroleum product, cyclo-
Propane, although known for many years,
was a laboratory curiosity until quite recent-
ly when it was first used in human anaes-
thesia. It has since been widely adopted
as being one of the safest of anaesthetics..
Serving the Nation on Land , Sea and in the A
VACUUM OIL COMPANY
Agreement has been reached on the
international money talks. There is to be
an International Bank for Reconstruc-
tion and Development with an initial
capital of $BBOO million and a currency
stabilisation fund of a similar amount.
Mr. Morgenthau, Secretary to the U.S,
Treasury, said that the business of “legi-
timate” bankers would be increased, since
the volume of international investments
would grow, and the repayment of loans
would be guaranteed. World capital
would be freed from “monopoly” control
and made available to war-damaged and
undeveloped countries. Machinery had
been established to increase world pro-
duction and trade, employment and living
standards, and for international economic
co-operation so that trade rivalries could
be halted before they started another
world war. The United States should
acknowledge that other countries had to
be helped to produce and sell as well as
asked to buy and consume. Some regard
this as a recognition of the United States’
obligation to revise its tariff policy, and
as the suggestion of a future U.S. role as a
major lending nation. It all points
towards an acknowledgment that a
country which has replaced Britain as the
world’s leading manufacturer and ex-
porter must assume responsibilities which
go with the title.
* * * *
Because “orders may increase sud-
denly,” some Federal Ministers are re-
ported to have said that it would be “un-
wise” to dispense with the services of
many munition workers not at present
fully occupied. “Surplus labor,” says one
press report, “is being retained in several
Government munition factories in N. S.
Wales, although there is no demand for
this labor owing to substantial reductions
in Government orders.” And so the Aus-
tralian war bill and the taxation burden
are being kept unnecessarily inflated,
although the Government is howling for
more man-power for food production and
the textile industries. The greatest prob-
lems in our man-power position are poli-
tical. Much of our taxation and debt
burden is the result of politics.
* * # *
When the poor response to Australian
war loans is taken into comparison with
the huge accumulation of other sav-
ings there would appear to be, on
the face of it, a falsely low rate being
paid in interest on public borrowing. The
Commonwealth Government, under its
war-time powers, has made elaborate
efforts to concentrate investment in war
funds, and it has carried its controls to
extremes, closing down the Stock Ex-
changes for a period, and later setting limits
to the prices of investment shares. Invest-
ment in real estate has been made most
difficult, even where the investment repre-
sents the desire for a home, and the frus-
tration of investors generally and the re-
striction on spending have produced the
greatest amount of banked-up spending
power ever seen in the Commonwealth.
In spite of the accumulation of funds
awaiting investment, personal subscrip-
tions to war loans have been extremely
poor. It is thus indicated that the pre-
vailing rate offered on public securities
is a flattering one so far as the Govern-
ment is concerned. Rates ranging from
p.c. to 3i p.c. are not sufficiently
attractive to bring out of the savings
banks and other repositories the inactive
deposits of hundreds of thousands of Aus-
tralians. Perhaps it is not so much
a matter of interest rates: perhaps the
Australian who is not an investor by
habit is reluctant to become an investor,
having in his mind, possibly, memories
of the depression, the reduction of interest
rates and a market valuation of bonds
then sometimes well below par. The
last loan prior to the war carried an in-
terest rate of just under 4 p.c. Rates had
ranged between 3| p.c. and 4 p.c. from
1936 onwards. All over the world, after
the war, we may be sure that efforts will
be made to keep interest rates low and
industry healthy ; with such a combina-
tion a firm market for war loans should
be certain. The sounder a country’s
finances are the easier that will be
of achievement. In order to play the
game by present subscribers to war loans
it is incumbent on the present Govern-
ment to give a great deal more attention
to the basic soundness of Australia, in-
dustrially and economically, and to take
full cognisance of the unusual —and tem-
porary—controls which are making
present public subscriptions, however un-
satisfactory, a possibility at prevailing
rates of interest. Only by maintaining
Australia’s credit can the present con-
trolled rate of interest become a free
market rate after the war.
* * * *
Britain has an Institute of Export.
Addressing the Liverpool branch, a Mr.
L. G. Adams said: “It will be of little
use if the workers turn out the goods
and, through inefficient selling and mar-
keting, you, as exporters, fail to sell
them.” But the speaker mentioned an-
other factor even more vital than sales-
manship—costs of production:
After the wai it will be essential for
this country to build up the maximum
possible export trade. But how will this
be possible if we have continual industrial
disputes, ca’-canny methods, constant fric-
tion between management and labor, and
workers who care nothing about the inter-
ests of their company except the pay-
packet at the end of the week? These
will only build up high costs which, in
turn* will tend to make our export selling
prices non-competitive, especially when com-
pared with those of goods locally manu-
factured.
Australia is faced with an identical prob-
lem, and one which will in no way be
solved merely by the granting of “in-
creased Commonwealth powers.”


THE SERVICE MAN
Guam Invaded.
“Ek Dum”: After nearly a fortnight’s
pounding from air and sea, Admiral
Nimitz’s forces landed on Guam under
air and sea cover from the U.S. Fifth
Fleet.
Tinian, about 20 square miles, and
Rota, 35 square miles, which lie between
Gaum and Saipan, were bypassed and
are in process of being placed in a sand-
wich.
Guam is the first conquered bit of
American territory in the mid-Paciflc to
be attacked. It was the first American
territory to be invaded. Guam is the
most important island in the western
mid-Pacific, 225 square miles, with a
moderate climate and much high land
and good sheltered anchorages. It is the
largest island in the region—quite big
enough for a very substantial base.
Linked with Saipan and the other two
companion islands, it will form a very
important steppingstone towards Japan.
The Americans chose for their landing
area the beaches along the rugged penin-
sulas and bay foreshores on the western
side, between Agana, the administrative
centre, and the little town of Agat, half-
way to the southern end of the island.
As in the Saipan attack, they preceded
their onslaught with a feint at the north
of the island to deceive the enemy.
Not much of the fixed defences was
left by the original bombardments from
the sea and air. First resistance to the
landings was small. Sound beachheads
soon were established. The troops by
the afternoon of landing day had begun
to push their way in among the barren
hills —they rise up to 1300ft. —and the
fertile, usually well-watered valleys which
form the terrain of the southern half of
the island. Enemy resistance toward the
north was strong.
It seems likely that the Japanese de-
fence plan is much the same as at Saipan
—a retirement to the higher and rougher
plateaux to the north, where they will
fight till killed off. Up to Saturday U.S.
casualties were 348 killed, 1500 wounded
and 110 missing. Jap losses were esti-
mated at 6000.
Conference in Saipan
On Saipan the war was over, and up
to July 31 19,793 Japanese had been
buried.
While To jo’s Cabinet in Tokyo handed
in its portfolios across the Emperor’s
moat. Admiral King, Commander-in-
Chief of the Navies of the United States,
and Admiral Nimitz, Commander-in-
Chief in the Pacific, were sitting down, at
Garapan, under the very noses of the
Japanese Navy, only 1400 miles from
Tokyo Bay, planning future operations.
Admiral King summed up the strategic
situation in a few brief phrases: —
With an arc of 120 degrees for us to
attack, the enemy will be puzzled as to
where we will strike next. I am glad and
proud we got Saipan, for it means a great
deal to our future operations. Three divi-
sions captured it in good time. I have seen
the island and am impressed with its terrain
difficulties. It is obvious that the other
islands of the Marianas will be taken in
due course.
And Admiral Nimitz, the old seadog
who has borne the brunt of the command
in the great naval operations which have
decided events in the Pacific (and in Aus-
tralia), from the Coral Sea battle on-
wards, said; —
A possible aircraft-carrier strike against
the Japanese homeland is something we like
to think about. It is always in our minds,
though such a blow cannot be expected
soon.
It is a pity that the Australian Govern-
ment does not invite Admiral Nimitz to
pay an official visit to Australia for a
day or two to receive the thanks of this
country, which owes him a deep debt of
gratitude. To him more than to any other
commander it owes its present remoteness
from the scene of the fighting. This can
be said without detracting from anybody’s
credit. The job he has done in offensive
naval warfare over a vast area is without
precedent since the days of Nelson.
In New Guinea
In New Guinea and the islands off its
coast, bombing of positions and ships,
mopping up and a little fighting with the
Japanese isolated in the Aitape-Wewak
area made up the features of the war.
South-west Pacific G.H.Q, reported on
July 23 that 17 ships, of which seven
totalled 11,500 tons, had been sunk in
the past nine days and 20,000 tons of
ships damaged.
On Noemfoor Island, a few more
Japanese were wiped out, bringing the
counted enemy casualties to 1045, apart
from wounded carried away, but includ-
ing 324 prisoners.
In the Aitape-Wewak area, where it
was earlier discovered that the enemy
had a few light tanks, another 105 Japs
were killed, bringing the total to 1474.
So far, there has been no fighting com-
mensurate with an attempt of 45,000
troops to break encirclement.
On Biak a further 229 of the enemy
were killed and another 57 taken prisoner.
Bombing ranged from the Solomons
to Palau, from New Ireland to Timor.
At 9 a.m. on July 20 the second
Japanese reconnaissance ’plane seen over
the mainland of recent months was shot
down by Flight-Lieut. I. Gossland and
Fred Meakin, R.A.F., over North Wes-
tralia. It was a two-engined machine.
Both fliers had been in Australia nearly
a year without meeting a Jap.
Monty Takes to the Open.
“Ek Dum”: Little grass grows under
the feet of General Montgomery. To
impatient newspaper critics, his move-
ments in Normandy seem slow. In better-
informed quarters, familiar with all the
vast problems of supply and transport,
it must seem wonderful what he has
achieved already, especially in the face of
the kind of opposition which he has had
to meet and the dangers arising from the
varied experience of the two flanks of
his army.
The British on the left flank are very
largely seasoned veterans of the Eighth
Army, familiar with every enemy wile.
The Americans on the right are, for the
most part, not so experienced and their
progress is apt to be slower since they
have more to learn.
But they have done very well. They
have stood up magnificently to the most
trying kind of war —that of small fields
and hedges, in which advances are made
yard by yard against galling fire. And
they have never been forced back, except
in the ebb and flow of attack and counter-
attack.
The American capture of St. Lo was a
fine feat; but the Germans have hung
on in the Lessay region and the cross-
roads from the east leading to Cou-
tances
The Germans need this bit of coast as
long as they can hold it; for capture of
the main routes along it would open the
way to the capture of Granville railhead
and further progress round the German
rear to St. Malo, every inch of progress
contributing towards the isolation of the
Channel Islands.
At the British end of the line the first
great blow was struck on July 18, to open
the way to the plains of the Seine estuary.
Such attacks are now routine in method.
The only novelty about them is in the
magnitude of their preliminaries.
I
A Powerful Enemy *
Preparations need to be on a grand
scale, since, on only a matter of 50 miles
or so of front, the Germans now appear
to have about 25 divisions, with more dis-
posed in depth behind.
Of these, nine are said to be armored
divisions. And nine armored divisions,
though peahen critics dispose of them a
couple at a time, are mastodonic forma-
tions which cannot be fought with rifles.
Nine normal armored divisions would
hold over 100,000 men, including atten-
dant infantry and artillery, medical and
Q.M. and communications troops. It
would take 560-odd trains, each of 20 15-
ton wagons, to move them by rail. They
would have about 20,000 vehicles, some-
where about 7000 machine-guns, light
and heavy, anything up to 1000 mortars.
They would have well on towards 2500
field guns, from long 75’s upwards to the
six- or eight-inch varieties.
Their engineers would carry for each
division a few vehicles which could drag
an injured 40-ton tank aboard and trundle
off with it. American mobile tank divi-
sions carry around such trifles as bull-
dozers, and each U.S. division, besides a
fleet of boats, transports one 250 ft. and
one 350 ft. bridge ready to erect, in case
they might come in handy.
Anyway, put the adult male population
of Brisbane or Adelaide on wheels, hand
out a field gun to every 50 inhabitants, a
machine-gun to every 16 and put the
completed outfit on the road with water
supply, lighting, power, radio stations,
hospitals, workshops, transport, food
supply, anti-aircraft defence and what not
and you have a fair idea of what nine
armored divisions are like. In road order,
in transit, nine German armored divisions
would reach from Sydney to Melbourne.
If there are nine divisions in Normandy
General Montgomery is a glutton if he
wants more.
Most of Rommel’s force is packed
along the equivalent of the distance from
Sydney to Richmond or Brisbane to
Gatton, so it must be disposed in con-
siderable depth.
A Monster Blast
As a preliminary to engaging it in the
open General Montgomery plastered the
forward area across three roads from
Caen with 8000 tons of bombs.
Every “heavy” available was used in
this assault, Halifaxes and Lancasters
coming out in daylight along with For-
tresses and Liberators. The arc of devas-
tation ranged from the iron centre of
Colombelles, north-east of Caen, where
the Germans were dug in firmly, across .
the Troarn and Honfleur and Liseux
roads and other roads east leading to
Argentan and the ancient highway to
Falaise. The Falaise road traverses
General Montgomery’s own ancestral
countryside (the Montgomery castle is
worse ruined than Caen) and the home of
Camembert cheese.
In fact, the blow was struck round a
third of a circle from the Orne south of
Caen to the Orne north of it.
When the bombing finished there was
little left of German frontal positions. A
helping of 8000 tons of bombs will
destroy a lot of landscape.
Then British tanks broke out on
both sides of Caen. On June 20 they
were within half a mile of Troarn in the
forest levels to the east; they were 12
miles down the railway to Liseux, Evreux
and Paris, and they were driving steadily
southward.
Montgomery’s Review
That day General Montgomery summed
up the position:
A few days after our bound forward to
Caen we have secured a bridgehead be-
yond It was obvious that the Germans
would not want us to cross the river, but
it was done. We gained a tactical sur-
prise and now have strong armored and
mobile forces operating in a nice little
area on the other side of the Orne with
Caen as our centre... .Our object is to
bleed the German military forces to death
by writing off their personnel and equip-
ment.
He estimated that the enemy had lost
16,000 killed, 80,000 wounded and 60,000
prisoners, with 2150 vehicles, including
tanks knocked out, since June 6.
He emphasised that Germany was now
facing the attacks of three great military
forces on three sides, and added:
The Russian team must be first-class,
terrific. There is nothing I would like
better than to see them in action. I hope
to meet them in Berlin.
The Rain Begins
By next day the general’s Sinbad, bad
weather, had flung tempestuous arms
round his neck once more.
No general ever appears to have been
so dogged by the elements. Rain stopped
his pursuit in Libya and gave Rommel
a respite. Rain delayed his Tunisian
campaign. He fought through the most
terrible Italian winter for a generation.
And, for his invasion of France, he has
encountered the worst, wettest and most
turbulent June and July within the
memory of living man —weather which
makes him unable to use either his mobile
forces or his air forces to full advantage
or continuously, apd which plays on the
German side all the time.
For about 24 hours the rain held up
operations which were spreading out into
the tank battlefield of the Laize valley
and north of it. It compelled the aban-
donment of high ground four to eight
thiles south-west of Caen between the
Odon and the Orne rivers, chiefly, appar-
ently, because of the state of communi-
cations across the rising rivers, Esqual,
Evrecy and Maltot all had to be aban-
doned, and the Canadians were driven
out —but only temporarily—from St.
Andre, two miles to the east of Maltot
across the Orne. by savage and heavy
German counter-attacks.
Battle Renewed
At midday on July 22 the rain stopped,
after pouring down solidly for two days.
After that the offensive began to get
slowly under way once more.
This week should be seeing the begin-
nings of a really great tank engagement,
now that the British have won elbow-
room, provided the weather stays fine.
If August is normal and fine and dry
and hot, Normandy will be raked with
steel and drenched with blood of the first
real test of strength in France between
major forces with space to manoeuvre.
Unfortunately the rain lasted long
enough to stop completely the momen-
tum of the British drive, just as it was
getting way on. And it will have to be
generated all over again.
Matters had reached almost a complete
standstill by the night of July 21, and next
morning the communique remarked that
there was “nothing to report.”
But by the evening of Saturday, after
the rain had stopped, Maltot, on the
Evrecy road, had been retaken, the Ger-
man salient west of the Orne River and
south-west of Caen wiped out and the
drives were getting under steam again.
Despite the halt, the week’s changes
had gained a great deal. Caen was now
secure and out of range of all but long-
range field guns. On the other hand, the
British-Canadian forces were reaching the
outer limit of naval-gun support.
Rommel is adopting the tactics used
by the Germans again and again in
Russia. At the first sign of bombardment
his forces are drawn backwards. When
the bombardment stops they move up
again. But he is meeting something with
which Germans were unfamiliar in the
far-flung Russian lines and in Africa—a
concentrated air attack in a small space
which wrecks minefields and is not so
limited in its boundaries as an artillery
barrage. It can reach rear areas far more
intensively in the smaller countryside of
France than in Russia, where it was pos-
sible for defenders to spread targets piece-
meal all over the horizon.
Leghorn and Ancona Fall.
“Ek Dum”: The triumphs of the
Eighth and Fifth Armies in Italy were
again relegated to the kitchen by the
flapper press. Some Sydney papers only
had a passing line or two for the capture
of Leghorn by the Americans and that of
Ancona by the Poles on the Adriatic. Yet
Leghorn, though it is not naturally a
good port, is certainly an important one ;
and so is Ancona. Ancona has a
population of round 100,000, and boasts
a considerable shipbuilding industry and
great sugar refineries.
Both ports were given up after long,
hard resistance in the approaches and
severe demolitions within them. Pos-
session of them is a great step forward.
It advances Allied main supply bases tre-
mendously. The Poles took 2000 prisoners
in Ancona.
The British share in the day of tri-
umph was achieved by crossing the Arno
on a six-mile front, a sequel to the cap-
ture of Arezzo, in the, centre of the
peninsula.
By the week-end the Pisa-Rimini de-
fence (“Gothic”) line was doomed, with
the Americans ranged along the lower
Arno. On their left flank Eighth Army,
British and Fifth Army French troops
were clearing up the central positions, the
Poles were pushing on from Ancona and
Italian partisans were lending the Eighth
Army support in unspecified regions. Leg-
horn, however, was still under fire, and
the enemy still overlooked the port, which
he had methodically destroyed.
On July 22 the Americans held half
Pisa. The Germans held the other half
across the river. In the centre the Eighth
Army, after a week of heavy fighting, had
seized Citta di Gastello, in the Upper
Tiber area, and were approaching Greve,
west of the Arno, 12 miles from Florence.
The Germans seem still likely to retire
behind the Po River on the fringes of the
northern plains.
The retreat has shown, however, that
Marshal Kesselring’s two armies, while
beaten in the Liri Valley-Albano battles,
are not routed. Their retirement has
been a fast, hard-fighting, well-organised
retirement. They have left bridges de-
stroyed, water facilities and power plants
damaged, ports temporarily written off
and bottlenecks in approaches mined.
They have travelled on the west and in
the centre 250 miles since mid-May.
At each stage, in the main, they have
moved out under cover of strong rear-
guards behind some natural obstacle
already prepared for temporary defence.
Their retreat, in fact, has throughout
been similar to the greater retreat in
Russia —a forced retirement, but no dis-
organised scramble.
Bombs and "Doodlebugs."
“Ek D.”: Bombing of occupied
Europe and Germany reached as far
afield as the Ploesti oilfields, which on
July 22 suffered their eleventh attack by
the Mediterranean Allied Air Force. The
-attack did considerable damage, but
raiding machines out of 750 were lost.
At least five enemy machines were shot
down. *
During the week, apart from the tacti-
cal forces which kept on the tail of the
Germans fighting in Normandy, smash-
ing their rear areas and destroying their
communications, 12,000 U.S. bombers
and large R.A.F. forces operated over
Germany and occupied countries m the
We in 24 hours to 3 a.m. on July 21 the
R.A.F. dropped 4500 tons on Germany,
Belgium and Northern France. During
the week the Americans dropped 16,000
tons. The total bombs delivered by the
strategic air forces of the R.A.F. an
U.S.A.F. alone for the week weighed
twice as much as the load for the who
of July, 1943. The U.S.A.F. week s quota
was five times the July, 1943,
Flying bombs continue to reach LUc-
land in an almost steady stream,
effect on nerves must be severe, and the
menace grows in spite of the heroic effor -


CD
am
of R.A.F. bomber squadrons to blow up
launching bases.
Miss Ellen Wilkinson, Secretary to the
Ministry of Home Security, said on July
21;
Believe me, the situation in London
created by flying bombs is serious and diffi-
cult. There is no point in minimising the
fact. London civil defence workers and ihe
people are undergoing a very heavy strain.
One’s ears during the day are continually
listening and one’s sleep at night is broken.
That from Ellen, who is so full of fight,
is ample testimony to the effects of the
“doodlebug”—mild word for a damn-
able thing.
Across the Bug.
“Ek Dum”: Matters continue to pur-
sue their gigantic course in eastern
Europe, so far without any conclusive
result, though the campaign continues to
go well for the Russians.
For several days the Germans reported
fierce fighting in the Lwow sector, engen-
dered by a great Russian offensive. Of
that offensive the Russians had nothing
to say until the Germans had drawn
themselves beyond the Bug or the marshes
in sectors further north, where their flank
would have been exposed if there had
been an earlier break-through.
Then the Germans gave way suddenly
in the Lwow sector, and in two or three
days the Russians had advanced 30 miles
or so, but on a front which began to con-
form to the shape of the border of
German-occupied Poland along the River
San, towards which the Germans were
retreating.
The mid-central drive against East
Prussia stopped suddenly when it
approached the East Prussian border.
However, in a new drive further north,
south of Lake Peipus, the Russians took
Ostrov and pushed into Latvia and later
took Pskov, the last substantial town held
by the Germans in Russia.
A drive here, three weeks ago, would
have been sheer disaster for Germans
both in Estonia and Finland if it had
penetrated 80 miles to Valk. But the
Russians did not attempt it.
In any case, if the fighting on the cen-
tral front has really resulted in a debacle
as stated by Moscow correspondents—
something like 50 divisions are reported
wiped out and 23 generals captured, apart
from large numbers of casualties in other
divisions —the only thing left for a force
in Estonia to do would long ago have
been to get out of the trap hell-for-
leather by sea and land while the going
was good.
But the fact remains that the defence
in the Ostrov sector and round Pskov was
stronger than it was in the central pivot
of the “great Fatherland Fortress line”—
Vitebsk, Minsk (formerly German H.Q.
in Russia), Mogilev, Bobruisk, Progress
is slow, resistance tough. It apparently
is so tough on the isolated 25 miles of
front nearest Leningrad, where the Rus-
sians could have had naval support and
where there is no barrier but the Narva
River, which is nothing beside the Bere-
sina and the Dnieper, that it has tem-
porarily been left alone. It is about the
only position on the Russian front where
the Germans could hope to establish
defences like those of Normandy.
The Vistula Line
The soft spots appear to be in the
centre of the line; the strong positions
are on the flanks. In other words, the
advance is moulding itself to the great
German defence jaws of East Prussia and
the Carpathians. The Germans are giving
way till the assault reaches the Vistula
line in the centre, which forms the back
of the German maw facing Russia, The
defence lines are assuming the shape here
forecast in B. 23/2/’44.
On July 21 Marshal Stalin announced
that, striking suddenly from Kovel,
Marshal Rokossovsky’s army had ad-
vanced 31 miles in three days; that it had
widened its breach to 93 miles and cap-
tured Oalin, 44 miles west of Kovel,
Lubomi and Ratno, 32 miles to the north.
Nothing was said of the fortnight’s fight-
ing which preceded the break-through.
Later Kholm (Chelm), across the Bug,
fell, and the Russians reached Lublin.
Some Moscow correspondents hold
that the battles going on at Brest Litovsk
and Lwow are “probably the decisive
battles of the war,” but this seems too
optimistic.
Later it was reported that the Bug had
been breached for 10 miles south of
Brest Litovsk, but the Russians announced
that at Brest Litovsk and in the south the
fighting was far heavier than during any
other engagements of the advance, the
Germans throwing in 200 tanks at a time
in the Lwow sector. The line was now
extended to the sector between Brest
Litovsk and Bidystok in the Bialoweska
Forest.
On the Prussian Border
There appears to be tough resistance
along the East Prussian border, where
the Russians have reached Augustowa
(or Augustowo), the concentration point
of the II Corps, August, 1914, in the
last war, on the western edges of the
Augustowa Forest. They were then eight
miles from the Prussian border, whence
their best route is direct to the Lyck rail-
head and the Arys-Rostker Gap, between
the lakes of the Angerapp defence line.
It is noticeable that all the routes of
advance on all sectors are virtually the
same routes of advance pursued during
mobilisation against the Germans in the
last war. They were aimed at the same
concentration areas, all of which have
now been reached.
If and when the Russians penetrate to
the Vistula in the centre they will again
have to follow the pattern of the last war,
unless they can drive straight down the
tunnel across the river into Germany and
are strong enough during the process to
hold their long north and south flanks
secure.
This is a very unsafe procedure unless
they are convinced that the enemy is
beaten or unless their man-power is un-
limited and they are prepared for great
sacrifices.
In the normal course they would, if
possible, drive to the Vistula in the
centre, and then, using the Warsaw region
as a hinge, press out the elbows and
upper arms of their forces against East
Prussia to the north and the Carpathian
defences to the south.
There was on July 21 still no sign that
the Germans are out of reserves or that
operations have been affected by the
events at Hitler’s H.Q., which are appar-
ently somewhere in France —German
Western H.Q. were at Coblenz in the last
war—though there was a report of the
revolt of two battalions at Konigsberg.
At strongpoints where there has been
need for holding action, as at Kaunas and
Dvinsk, the enemy has been able to pro-
vide men and materials. At Bielystok
and Brest Litovsk there was news at the
week-end that he had thrown in reserves.
He had there formed two horns on the
Dnieper Bend plan to hamper lateral
Russian movement. This is bound to
cost him losses, perhaps divisions, but he
apparently thinks the game worth the
candle.
Lwow, on July 23, was reported to be
encirded. The Russians stated that, in
mopping up five surrounded divisions
near the city, they had killed 30,000 and
taken 15,000 prisoners.
War and Geography
The character of the war in general
is assuming that of 1914-18 very quickly,
though the phase has some aspects like
those of early 1918. The stage has been
reached when man-power is the deter-
mining factor, and when any great sacri-
fices by the Germans would mean the
end of them.
But the nature of the battles is deter-
mined by the terrain, as is the nature
of all battles; and different kinds of
large-scale war cannot be fought with-
out changing geography, which is well-
nigh impossible.
The war of the Russian frontier with
its wide spaces, broad rivers, opportuni-
ties for swift movement over long dis-
tances and for great movements which
envelop flanks or tip fronts sideways by
leverage, and break through them at the
ends, is a war of manoeuvre, of great
retreats backwards and advances for-
wards. It is much like Wellington’s war
in the Peninsula, in which he retreated, as
well as advanced, for victory.
Battles, paradoxically, can be lost there
by failures of commanders to retreat far
enough at the right time, as was the case
with Von Francois at Gumbinnen in the
Insterburg Gap in 1914. Victories can
be missed for the same reason, as with
Hindenburg in the south, when he re-
fused to move back into Silesia for poli-
tical reasons at the behest of his younger
staff officers—there is little doubt what
the result would have been had he fol-
lowed their advice.
Battles again have been lost through
large forces overreaching themselves, as
with the Russians at Tannenberg, and
from having to occupy positions in rela-
tively open country facing mountains
which mask their enemy’s movements,
as in the case of Mackensen’s Gorlice-
Tarnow break-through west of Lwow
(Lemberg then), which brought Russia its
greatest disaster in the last war, along
with the loss of about half a million men.
Until the final battle is fought in these
great regions, where the battleline is so
full of opportunities for astute and enter-
prising commanders, it is foolish to be
cocksure about results.
Chamberlin on Losses
W. H, Chamberlin, greatest of foreign
authorities on Russia, in his book The
Russian Enigma, of which the first copies
have reached Australia, writes:
Both the German and the Soviet High
Commands release only such information
as is considered useful for purposes of
foreign and domestic propaganda. While
the line of the front could be determined
during the various phases of the war with
fair accuracy, since neither side, as a
general rule, has found it worth while
to put forward unfounded claims of terri-
torial gains or captured cities, the far
more important question of losses, human
and material, is obscured by an impene-
trable smokescreen of hopelessly conflict-
ing official statements
One well-informed foreign observer with
whom I talked in the spring of 1943, after
he had returned from an extensive trip in
Russia, ventured the guess that Russian
losses had been in the ratio of three to
one, as compared with German. This ratio
had been more favorable to the Russians as
regards satellite troops. Perhaps an esti-
mate of five million casualties for the Red
Army and two million for the Germans
and their allies would not be very far wide
of the mark... .Certainly every foreign
observer in Russia, and the Russians them-
selves, would agree that the toll of casual-
ties, military and civilian, is tremendous.
The stoicism with which the Russians
have endured their losses and sufferings
is one of the great features of their war.
Tojo and Hitler.
“Ek Dum”: Last week will be long
remembered in Axis countries as a period
of thrills.
First, after General Tojo had “with-
drawn” from the position of Chief of
the Japanese General Staff, his Cabinet
resigned. It did not resign willingly. The
reason was quite evident—it was on the
old issue of “face,” the greatest destroyer
of men in the Orient.
The Cabinet had lost Saipan. Its
C.-in-C. in the mid-Pacific had been
killed. Two divisions of Japanese had
been wiped out after being trapped. The
Japanese fleet, after coming out, had
turned tail, According to the rules of
the game, somebody had to answer for
this. So the Cabinet resigned.
Probably some naval officers of the
Grand Fleet will be permanently missing.
It is a pity that resignations of Cabinets
in Japan cannot be interpreted as are
resignations of Cabinets elsewhere. The
making of policy and the carrying on of
administration in Japan are so complex a
matter than one Cabinet more or less
makes no difference. The theory of
group responsibility in Japan has been
developed to such a degree that no indi-
vidual or no committee is 6ver really
responsible for anything. So permanent
policy is created somewhere behind the
scenes.
The present Cabinet changes seem to
have been prepared for, and the new
Cabinet is a mirror of the old one in many
respects. But its talent is continental
rather than naval, and it seems to have
been framed with war on the mainland
in view. Both its Premier, General Koiso,
and the new War Minister, General
Sugiyama, who retired from the job of
Chief of Staff last February, being re-
placed by General Tojo, are supposed
authorities on mobile warfare and on
Chinese and Manchurian terrain. Foreign
policy is obviously unchanged, since
Tojo’s Foreign Minister, Mamoru Shige-
mitsu, remains. And the remainder of
the stress appears to be on the develop-
ment of war production.
Mr. E. S. Grew, formerly American
Ambassador to Tokyo, remarked that
Admiral Yonai, the new Navy Minister,
had tried to prevent the Japanese-German
alliance and was regarded formerly as
friendly to America. He said the changes
would “in all probability entail no funda-
mental change of policy in fighting the
war.”
A Bomb for Adolf
Events in Germany were somewhat as
follows:
It was reported that changes had been
made in the High Command, including
the withdrawal of Von Rundstedt from
France on the ground of “ill health.”
Hitler’s headquarters were moved to
France —or so it was said. He was
declared to be elated, optimistic and in
robust health, despite the Russian ad-
vances and the Allied landing in
Normandy.
Next, “big moves” were reported in
Germany. All civil passenger traffic had
ceased. Telephone communication with
Sweden had been severed. This was not
confirmed.
Four days afterwards the news sud-
denly arrived that an attempt had been
made on the lives of Hitler and his
generals in conference at his H.Q.
The only firsthand details were in
by Hitler himself, who
came on the air ten minutes after it was
stated that he would speak.
He said “a very small clique of am-
bitious, irresponsible and stupid officers
plotted to eliminate me and the German
High Command.” A bomb, placed by
Colonel Count von Stauffenberg, had ex-
ploded “six feet to my right”—it would
seem at a full session of his staff. One of
those with him was killed and “a number
of collaborators very dear to me seriously
injured.” He himself “sustained only
some minor scratches, bruises and burns.”
Hitler asserted that “the circle of the
conspirators” was “very small” and had
“nothing in common with the German
Army and nothing at all in common witli
the German people. It is a miniature
gang of criminel elements who will now
be ruthlessly exterminated.”
Colonel von Stauffenberg was “purged”
promptly. So were a lot of others
apparently, including a former chief of
the General Staff, General Beck.
The papers issued varying lists of
officers who had been injured and of
others who had been “purged” or
“liquidated.” These were supposed to
include Von Rundstedt and Von Mann-
stein. But nearly all the chroniclers re-
vealed that they did not know the differ-
ence between the Chief of Hitler’s Staff
and the Chief of the Great General Staff.
Marshal Keitel, when last heard of,
was Chief of the Greater General Staff,
and had been since the beginning of the
war. He is not a Nazi. As he is one of
the enemy’s most capable strategists and
organisers, much depends on whether he
has any connection with the disaffection,
but the evidence is against it. General
Guderian, who has been summoned to
take the place of Hitler’s Chief of Staff
(General Jodi), who was injured, is an
army man and no politician. He is
reckoned Germany’s greatest tank ex-
pert.
Himmler, head of the Gestapo, was
appointed Commander-in-Chief in Ger-
many, which seemed to open up a bleak
prospect for conspirators.
Much was made of the circumstance
that Goring, as head of the Luftwaffe,
and Doenitz, as head of the Reichs-
marine, swore allegiance to Hitler,
but that nobody from the army followed
suit. The omission may be attributed
to the fact that the personal Commander-
in-Chief of the Wehrmacht is named
Adolf Hitler. Renowned for modesty, he
might have felt diffidence about swearing
allegiance to himself. When Guderian
arrived at H.Q. he swore allegiance for
the army three days after the others.
Meanwhile, Dr. Ley, the Labor
Minister, had the face to allege that the
bomb was a British bomb. Moscow
Radio attributed the events in Germany
to the Russian victories on the Eastern
Front and the impending catastrophe to
German arms.
From the fact that communication with
the outside world was quickly restored,
it seemed that any rebellion was abortive.
Most of the news published about the
affair was rumor or wishful thinking. It
seemed on the surface to be Junker
plot, a small but significant affair, which
has not yet affected the fighting fronts,
though this may happen. Time alone
will reveal the story and the implications
of events.
In the meantime, it must be highly
unpleasant to live in Germany and be
named Von Stauffenberg or even to live
next door to somebody named Von
Stauffenberg. The Fiihrer, after his shak-
ing, sounded like a man who had just had
a handful of bulldog ants cascaded down
a sunburned back.
In brief:
Beaufighters caught 40 German ships, one
of the largest enemy convoys seen in the
North Sea, off Heligoland on the night of July
21. Two merchantmen were left sinking and
five escort ships burning fiercely. Most of the
rest were damaged by cannon and rocket fire.


*e &STE * e °l ABLETS
FOR BLOOD. VEINS.
ARTERIES. ETC.
Whai is BLASTO? ~ . What can it do for me ?
Here are the Answers!
If you suffer from constant
unnatural weariness; if you
are the victim of chronic pain
resulting from poor blood cir-
culation or a devitalised blood
condition; if you have varicose
veins, piles, rheumatism, skin
complaints or similar troubles
Elasto, the wonderful new
Biomedical treatment, can
bring you speedy relief. “How
can that be”, you, might well
say, when so many things have
failed..,
Here is how ELASTO works
It has long been realised that
these conditions are frequently
the fault of the blood condition
or circulation, and the amazing
success of Elasto is due to the
fact that it goes right to work at
this source —it revitalises the
blood. Suffice it to say here that
Elasto is not a drug but a vital
cell-food. It restores to the blood
the vital elements which combine
with the blood albumin to form
organic elastic tissue and thus
enables nature to assist elastic-
ity to the broken-down and de-
vitalised fabric of veins, arteries,
etc., and so re-establish normal,
healthy circulation without which
there can be no true healing:.
Nine times out of ten the real
trouble Is bad circulation.
This is more fully explained In
simple language in a free book-
let— see offer below.
What users of ELASTO say:
The fact is that no ailment re-
sulting from poor or sluggish
circulation of the blood can re-
sist the action of Elasto. Here is
what a few of many grateful
users have said:
“No sign of varicose veins
now.”
"Completely healed my vari-
cose ulcers.”
“ ‘Elasto’ has quite cured my
eczema."
“My doctor marvelled at my
quick recovery from phlebitis.”
Send for FREE Booklet
Simply send your name and
address to "Elasto", Box 1552 E,
Sydney, for your FREE copy of
the interesting “Eiasto” booklet.
Or better still, get a supply of
Elasto (with booklet enclosed)
from your chemist today and see
for yourself what a wonderful
difference Elasto makes. Obtain-
able from chemists and stores
everywhere. Price 7/6, one
month’s supply.
sd
m
Hi
! Agents: M. MOSS & CO. PTY. LTD., SYDNEY
WS 164
SPORTING NOTIONS
Attendance at Randwick on Saturday
was 44,525, nearly 3000 more than at the
corresponding meeting in 1943. Tote
figures for six races were £128,880, com-
pared with £94,401 15s. for seven races
a year ago.
After his failure in the Moorefield
Handicap few outside the stable connec-
tions gave Highgate much thought in the
Moore Park Handicap. He has had more
racing than most horses this season, but
he is still fresh, and he finished on to a
three-lengths’ win. Early running sug-
gested that Precise might steal the race.
Knox was blamed for rushing Precise
three furlongs from home, but he would
have been lauded for masterly tactics had
he won: such is the difference between
winning and losing. Ron Rico, third,
looked a danger to both Highgate and
Precise at the furlong. His run ended
before the post, but he can still be im-
proved. Magi’s fourth with 8.13 was
surprising for a mare who seldom carries
weight well, but both Beauhead (sixth)
and Merrimba (fifth) apparently have
reached a mark which will make success
difficult.
Shining Night’s gameness won him the
July Handicap from Orderly and Chat-
ham’s Choice. The latter pair seemed to
be holding him just before the furlong
post, but, while they tired, Shining Night
kept going. Shining Night is more than
useful; in four wins this season he has
earned £3374 for his owner, Mrs. J. C.
Bancks. That he could win a miles
handicap at, Randwick with 9.10, how-
ever, is a fair commentary on the standard
of winter stayers, Chatham’s Choice,
always hard to catch when allowed his
own way in front, was placed at 1| miles
for the first time since his third to
Laureate and Galliard in the 1941 A.J.C.
Derby. The favorite. Lord Spear, had
a perfect run behind Chatham’s Choice
and Orderly, but he does not stay well.
Unlucky at Rosehill, where she finished
second to Mintage, Scene gave book-
makers a remarkable result by winning
the Maroubra Handicap from Brazier
and Thrax. Thrax, however, carried
B|lb. short weight and Grand Prodige
secured third place. One bookmaker won
nearly £3400, and two others approxi-
mately £2500 apiece. Fairly placed early.
Scene lost ground on the outside at the
turn, but she did best in the straight, and
caught Brazier close to the post. Brazier
justified his Newcastle reputation for
speed, and looked likely to lead all the
way until Scene grabbed him. Surpris-
ingly heavy support made High Flight
favorite. Certainly he had won his four
previous races, but it takes a horse right
out of the ordinary to win with 10.10, and
High Flight was never within lengths of
the lead.
Thrax’s disqualification from third was
a blow to the holders of 900 tickets on
the place-tote. Thrax would have paid
a dividend of £4 13s. 6d. for ss. The
stewards found that the lead-bag with
which jockey McGrowdie had weighed
out had been left on the rail of the stall
while Thrax was being saddled. They
fined the trainer, Murray, £25.
Calgary finished a little more solidly
than Accession in the Two-year-old En-
courage, for which they were equal
favorites. Calgary, by Manitoba from
Miss Eastern (a close relative of Heroic),
cost 1050gns. as a-t yearling. He had
started only three times before his Rand-
wick win, and even if he does not reach
Derby standard he will win in better
company. Accession had had even less
experience, and his turn will come soon.
Titled, who finished third, is a half-
brother to Fearless, by Le Grand Due
from Gaiment. He raced to a good lead
at the leger, but was beaten quickly in
the last furlong.
Castle Frontenac beat only moderates
in the Three-year-old Encourage, but it
takes a good horse to win in any Rand-
wick class with 9st. 71b. Castle Frontenac
had raced disappointingly at Moorefield
a week earlier, but he is a long-striding
colt who was better suited by the bigger
Randwick track. Only eighth at the half-
mile, he gave Sir Francis and Mar Mong
a long start into the straight, then finished
much too well to beat Nepean River and
Royal Janette./It was intended originally
to run Castle Frontenac in the Newcastle
Cup on August 5, but now the colt will
be trained for big spring races in Sydney.
Craigie and Skip Bomber both lacked the
dash to take a good position early. They
may be better suited in races beyond a
mile, which are run more leisurely.
Difficult to control in earlier races,
Allan Veil galloped smoothly for appren-
tice R. Johnson to win the Novice Han-
dicap. He was back in the middle of the
field when Peter’s Pence led Deep Sky
and Plain Bill at the half-mile, but moved
through sharply at the turn and had Deep
Sky and Manday Son beaten a furlong
from home. Allan Veil automatically
will be eliminated from restricted class
when he turns six years On Tuesday, but
he should win middle-distance handicaps
in suburban company. Manday Son
again failed to run out a mile and a
quarter, but he did much better than the
well-backed Commando, who apparently
will do his best only in front.
Apprentice riders in the Novice handled
their mounts well. Many boys in Sydney
show promise, but they need race prac-
tice, of which they are not getting enough.
With the continued increase in prize-
money there is danger that apprentices
will receive even fewer opportunities.
Even on suburban courses races often
are above the prize maximum of £6OO at
which allowances can be claimed, and
owners of fancied horses naturally look
to the more experienced jockeys. Trying
to meet the altered conditions the A.J.C,
twice has raised the maximum, first from
£3OO to £5OO and then to £6OO. Another
review would not be amiss now.
* * * *
Though Neutron hadn’t won a race
for upwards of two years there was good
money for him in the Ascot Winter Cup
at Mentone. The Manitoba gelding was
favorite, along with Manito, at fours;
Manito had been backed from eights.
Manito never got near the leaders, but
Neutron was always in a handy position,
and, with Breasley riding a heady race,
he beat Cellini and Easterly with some-
thing in hand. Neutron, once in the
Robertson stable, is now trained by Lewis
for O. G. Porter, who bought him last
year. Philander was one of the dis-
appointments of the field of 21.
The Heatherbrae Handicap for three-
year-olds gave the bookmakers a great
result. Though a winner at Geelong,
Nepal, another of Manitoba’s progeny,
was neglected ; “out of his class” was the
general verdict, and so he was in size,
being only a pony. Motion, previously
successful on the course, was the public
fancy, and he ran a good race; but
Nepal got his small head in front at the
end. King Opera being third. Nepal and
King Opera were at 33 to 1 ; ss. tote
dividends on Nepal were £l3 2s. 6d. and
£2 14s. 6d., King Opera’s being £1 15s.
Seven of the 16 runners in the Dela-
mere Trial Hurdle, won by Jill Ann (5
to 2) from a couple of outsiders, Barrara
and Stromness, failed to finish. One of
them was Fugleman, the favorite, ridden
by Meenan, who, interfered with by
Strand when that horse came down, gave
Meenan a harmless toss. Aldridge, the
rider of Strand, got a nasty fall, but
neither horsemen nor horses suffered
serious effects.
* * « •
There seems no particular anxiety on
the part of the Federal Treasurer to push
the loan of nearly £280,000 to enable the
Sydney Turf Club to acquire two Syd-
ney racecourses. This is not surprising,
as though the S.T.C. purposes doing a
lot to improve facilities and comfort for
the public circumstances will not permit
of changes at the present time As it is
improbable the S.T.C. would be able to
give a greater amount of prize-money
than the clubs they purpose taking over
are now distributing, neither the public
nor horse-owners would be gainers by an
immediate change of management
Therefore why bother about it until we
get through with the war?
* * «c *
Tote betting at Randwick this season
has been abnormal. Commencing with
the first meeting at headquarters on
August 21, the turnover is well over
£3,000,000. There is no doubt as to the
increased popularity of the machine. It
supplies the betting needs of those who,
in the paddock, are satisfied with specu-
lating ss. or. 10s., and there are many who
place large amounts with the tote in the
belief that it will give them a slightly
better starting price than the books.
Miscellaneous
In Gray v, Cameron at Sydney Stadium
Gray made the fight and administered
most of the punishment, but Cameron
was adjudged to have broken even with
him. When a right to the solar plexus
dropped Cameron in the sixth the end
seemed near. He regained his feet at
“eight” and fought back feebly, and
from the ninth to the end of the twelfth
he collected a few points, but the draw
decision astonished all except those who
had backed Cameron.
Cliff Bowen showed great gameness, if
no great skill, in his attempt at Leich-
hardt to wrest the middleweight title
conferred (by Leichardt) on Tommy
Colteaux, Attacking from the 4 first bell,
he forced the half-stone heavier pug all
around the ring. A head punch opened
Bowen’s left eyebrow in the fourth, but
did not check his ardor, and in the fifth
he started a toe-to-toe rally which ended
in his caressing the floor for three
seconds, result of a left to the body. An-
other left to the body brought him down
again for “eight.” But he outfought Col-
teaux in the next round, and came up
for the seventh full of fight. By this time,
however, the eyebrow gash had been en-
larged, and it looked so dangerous at
“corners” that the referee called a halt,
despite Bowen’s protests.
* * * a
Richmond appears to have the V.F.L.
premiership in the bag. On Saturday
Melbourne was tipped to give the Tigers
a go for it, but the Tigers fell upon the
ball and booted it heartily to the tune of
17.8-9.15, placing themselves six points
ahead of everybody on the list. Mean-
time Fitzroy, ambling down to St. Kilda
for a practice run, got the shock of its
life by being grabbed, bustled and belted
12.16-8.14 and hoofed out of the four,
now Richmond, Carlton, Footscray and
Essendon, all winners on Saturday:
Essendon 19.18-3.7 v. Hawthorn, Colling-
wood 13.11-10.10 v. North Melbourne,
Footscray 14.17-11.11 v. Geelong, Carl-
ton 10.14-8.12 v. South Melbourne.
* * 41 *
In the Rugby Union “match of the
day” Parramatta’s spoiling tactics had
Randwick trailing 6-nil at half-time. Bui
in the “second half the ’Wick forwards,
using their weight, overwhelmed the
Parramatta vanguard, and their flying
backs did the rest; Randwick 19, Parra-
matta 9. University routed Drummoyne
24-6. With one loss, Randwick is two
points ahead of West, with Uni. third
and Drummoyne and East (equal) fourth.
Other games:
West 19, Manly nil ; East 20, North nil ; St.
George 28, Gordon 5.
FOR VICTORIA PARK.
(At Moorefield.)
(Before acceptances.)
Trial Stakes: Craigie, 1 ; Royal
Janette, 2 ; Kookaburra, 3.
Juvenile Handicap: Cragsman, 1;
Beltana, 2; The Artist, 3.
Nursery Handicap: Autocratic, 1;
Victrix, 2; Sovereign’s Fate, 3.
Flying Handicap: Milanja, 1;
Brazier, 2 ; Steadfast, 3.
Winter Cup: Abbeville, 1; Castle
Frontenac, 2 ; Easter Time, 3.
Three - year - old Handicap:
Chinook, 1; Lady Marie, 2; Mint-
age, 3.
Welter Handicap: Ron Rico, 1;
Royal Result, 2 ; Warbird, 3.


WOMEN'S LETTERS
From Sydney
The Consul-General for Belgium and
Madame Jansen were kept busy between
five and seven welcoming members of
the Belgian colony and friends of Bel-
gium at a .reception in honor of the
country’s national day. The party was
held at the Australia. The principal
decorations were the flag of Belgium and
Allied flags. Mrs. M. Polya, who helped
her father and mother to entertain the
guests, wore a black afternoon frock,
bodice fitting, skirt flounced. Mrs.
Jansen was also very smart in black.
Consul-General Jansen gave the toast
“The Belgian King,” and spoke in feeling
terms of his native land. Then everyone
drank Mr. and Mrs. Jansen’s health.
Among the well-knowns in the animated
groups were knight Thomas Gordon and
his wife, Mrs. M. Graff and the Andre
Brenac couple. With the Brenacs were
her sister, Mrs. Fraser Coss, and Chantal
de Crombrugghe.
There was no Mark Anthony (as far
as oratorical effects are concerned) among
the celebrated company who opened the
Water-colorists’ Show last Saturday. But
it was pleasant to see both the Law and
Medicine shoulder to shoulder giving
praise to Art —joyous sister of the pro-
fessions.
Lt.-Col. I. Ridgeway Trimble, M.C.,
U.S. Army, chief surgeon at Herne Bay
and, previous to war years, chief surgeon
of the famed Johns Hopkins Institute,
did the opening. He is a tall, lean man,
of quiet manner, and feels that art should
be a part of daily life. He made quite
a hit with his sincere and serious speech.
President J. W. Maund (whose “Lift-
ing Fog” was among the admired)
introduced the speaker, and Spencer
Watts gave thanks. Then everybody
sipped tea at the invitation of the
president and drifted about from one
charm to another. For the big hail
of the Education Galleries has the
dream-on-a-sunlit-day atmosphere that
water-colorists seem to live in. Phyllis
Shillito, of the staff of East Sydney Tech.,
has snared the purse of the Marshall Be-
quest, and her inspired “Yorkshire Cathe-
dral” will henceforth hang in the National
Gallery. “The Sand Dune,” by G. K.
Townshend, will also join the same
honored company.
Dora Jarret, one of the office-
bearers who drank tea at a berry-
decked table on the dais, was among
those whose works held the prolonged
gaze. Margaret Coen, whose tender
and vivid white hibiscus drew a sigh
of desire from every woman, was
busied with committee duties. H. W.
Grace, whose brush has been busy with
bush and mountain, brought with
him a young musician friend, Neils
Brown, down from Moorland to study
the violin. Bombardier John Magrath
is responsible for the only touch of New
Guinea in the show. Amid the greetings
and meetings of the artists there were the
useful some who had come to look and
then to buy. Mrs. Ben Edye was one of
them.
Memories of Good Queen Bess and of
sturdy Simon de Montfort are evoked
by the announcement that the heir to
the Leicester earldom will arrive in Aus-
tralia with the Duke of Gloucester. He is
Viscount Coke (Cook to the initiate),
and he will be Controller of the Duke’s
Household. With him will come his wife,
who is to be one of the Duchess of
Gloucester’s ladies-in-waiting. Two young
daughters, Anne Veronica, who is 12, and
Carey Elizabeth, who is 10, are coming
to Australia with their parents. Before
her marriage Lady Coke was Lady Eliza-
beth Yorke. That’s the family name of
the earldom of Hardwicke, and one of
the family homes is (or was) named Syd-
ney Lodge.
One of Sydney’s coldest nights and the
new ballet programme coincided. This
might account for the sudden extinguisher
on the glad frocking of the opening.
Then the airy fairy nonsense on the stage
heightened the gleam of the turquoise,
the amethyst or the emerald coat or dress
in the audience. But last week’s audience
went clothed in pensive blacks and
warmed by fur coats.
One of the softest-looking of these was
the grey squirrel worn by Mrs. H. J.
Brady, against the sleeve of which actor
Edwin Styles, its neighbor, brushed shoul-
ders, he maybe wishing it was fashion-
able still in winter for gents to wear fur
tippets. With the star were his attractive
wife and a party of friends. The Bertie
Kellys brought a family group; the
Bevans, of Newport, were others who
entertained. Dr. Lex Johnson and his
wife also viewed the scenes, now so
spirited, now so dreamy, against effective
stage decorations. One of the most in-
terested onlookers was ballerina Laurel
M , moth Mrs £ A Gi „ who
had J our d nearly 2000 mi , es £ro m
h f amily's station home on the Queens-
for h season .
. ,
Even the most savage war the world
has known cannot kill the sense of faeiy,
the Venetian glass exquisiteness of
romance, as shown by the breathless at-
tention with which the old, ftc not-so-old
and the very young followsid the s ory ot
[he enchanted Queen of the Swans (Mel-
bourne girl Edna Busse) and the Pnnce
&■»£“£
“f ‘ben died with all his natural grace
In contrast was the bright bustle or
Italian Caprice that sent everyone
h° me hugging a peal of gaiety. In t i
fisherwomen and washerwomen, peasant
women and their husbands all flashed in
out about the affairs of the heart and
commerce on a stream of Tschaikowsky
music,
The gay lady with the dark lilac ostrich
plume in her hair and her swirl of pale
lilac satin skirt was not like the ladies
in “Caller Herrin’.” They, when the creel
of herrin’ passed, “tossed their heads anu
screwed their faces” ; but this lady seemed
to say “What’s a finny smell among
friends?” and still danced and smiled
even when the fishwives, basket on head,
tripped by. Mr. Borovansky was con-
gratulated by loud show of hands for this
ballet which he has presented to Sydney,
The C.W.A. is out to make the Gowrie
Scholarship Fund the success it deserves
,to be. The members are planning a
number of money-spinners in the cause,
and one from which they expect a big
box-office is the pianoforte recital by
Eunice Gardiner (pictured here by
John Lee). This is dated for August
1, and the young musician, to whose
gifts Eugene Ormandy has paid tri-
bute, has arranged a programme which
will include Liszt and Debussy. Eunice,
who is the wife of Captain R. V. Curtin,
A.1.F., hopes to leave for the U.S.A.
towards the end of the year. Mrs. Jack
Garry, State president of the C.W.A., is
head of the concert committee. The Con-
servatorium is the chosen place.
Probably no Australian actress has
made a deeper dint on Broadway audi-
ences than Judith Anderson. Judith is
not very tall —five-foot-four or so ; but
on the stage her way of carrying herself
gives the impression of considerable
height. She is, above all, an actress of
the emotions, and her playing of Lady
Macbeth is still notched up as one of
America’s events of the theatre. Flying-
Officer Kenn Brodziak, who saw her as
the tragic mistress of gloomy Glamis,
says the audience scarcely breathed dur-
ing the sleepwalking scene.
Judith, nylon stockings and dainty
suede sandals complete, stepped into
Sydney again last week as head of an
entertainment party that will tour the
military camps of the South-west Pacific.
Judith, whose hair is now palely gold,
covered her pencil slimness with a blue
frock that had a natty scarf arrangement,
patterned in sequins, which started at
the back of the neckline, flowed over one
shoulder and cascaded down the front.
It was caught in at the waistline by a belt.
She varies the frock with scarves of many
colors —graceful women, please note!
The Borovansky Ballet claimed the hom-
ing Australian one night. With her
brother from Yenda and his two daugh-
ters and Sydneyite Eileen Robinson, one
of her closest friends, she shared a box at
the Royal.
At 2.30 on Monday Mayor Bartley will
open in the lower Town Hall a show of
the work of Australian war photo-
graphers. The exhibition has been organ-
ised by the Department of Information.
Work on the home front has its place in
this exhibition. But the photographs
showing troops in action will prove the
most absorbing to every visitor. The
exhibition, which will close on August 9,
will bo open to adults from 1 p.m. until
10 p.m.—the mornings will be reserved
for schoolchildren ; admission is free, but
contributions may be made. These will
go to A.C.F.
Pilot-Officer Arthur Bowman, of the
R.A.A.F. in England, has cabled news of
his engagement home to his mother, Mrs.
Arthur Bowman, of Archerfield, Single-
ton. The girl of his heart is a Yorkshire
lass, Paula Boult, and her parents are the
A. Boults, of Beech Lodge, Leeds.
Grand opera still goes with a swing at
the Conservatorium. In fact, as the
season gets into its stride it gathers in-
creasing audiences. A point to be noted
is thfe great parties of boys and 'girls
(sometimes 50 and 60 in a group) coming
from big industrial works in the suburbs.
Of the operas, “Pagliacci” (that miniature
of tears and tinsel) is still the least popu-
lar, though the singing and acting have
gained in power. Vera Terry, of Mel-
bourne, has the true coquette touch in
voice and action for the part of Lola
in “Cavalleria.” Strella Wilson’s Mar-
guerite and Thea Philips’s Santuzza still
rivet the ear and the gaze. In short, all
hands are pulling their weight. The
season ends on the 29th.
From Melbourne
Music seemed to be the chief topic last
week, as it has been for many past ones.
Season-ticket holders for symphony con-
certs can still cancel debts by offering
seats. Making sure that this city’s interest
in music won’t be a flash ip the pan are
Sybil Hewett and her fellow-organisers
of children’s concerts. Proof that the
fare they offer is appreciated by parents
and youngsters is given by the rush for
tickets as soon as a children’s concert is
mooted.
It looks as if the Free Ormandy Con-
cert to which Lud Mayor Nettlefold
shouted citizens will go down in history
as the Battle for the Town Hall, on the
lines of the pre-rationing Battle for
Bourke-street. The magic word “free”
proved as potent even as “Ormandy.”
A collection of aspiring musicians was
seen awaiting Ormandy’s judgment last
week when he listened to several young
folk. Ethel Parnham (pianoforte),
Leonard Hungerford (considered one of
the Con.’s brightest students), small violin-
ist Desmond Bradley and flautist June
Lindsay had an opportunity to do their
stuff. Though he’s no lover of infant
prodigies, Ormandy has a nice way with
youngsters.
Since their arrival in these parts Hanny
Kolm and Daisy Pirnitzer hive been en-
lightening Melbourne concerning the
latest developments in European ballet
(developments that ended abruptly in Sep-
tember, 1939). In their next show, which
will be staged at the Union Theatre from
August 12 to the 19th, the main item wiil
be the ballet “Gold,” which is concerned
with the effect of riches on mankind and
points a Biblical moral very decoratively.
Pictured here by Antoine Kershaw is
Hanny Kolm, who is appearing solo in
“Dance Barbara,” with accompaniment of
drums and cymbals.
The atmosphere at the get-together to
celebrate Nest Malcolm’s 25th anniver-
sary of service with the Travellers’ Aid
was that of a “back-to-school” party—
everybody was saying “do you remember
when?” Nest started it when she recalled
making her first appearance on the job
as T.A.’s secretary wearing her mother’s
hat and fur. She recalled, too, that when
starting out she had been loaded with
good advice, among other suggestions
being “never play golf with the presi-
dent.” Her speech was read by her old
friend May Maxwell.
The presentation of an alarm clock
brought a lot of laughter, as the hander-
over described how all Miss Malcolm’s
sleeping and waking habits had to be
explained before officialdom would grant
a priority. Presented also was a capa-
cious eiderdown with a monogram
worked on it by the Harrison Moore lady,
who has known Travellers’ Aid since its
toddling days. Others whose service to
the society has been long, and who had
a fund of anecdotes to draw upon, were
Miss Linda Byron Moore, Mrs. J, Mc-
Leod and Mrs. John Downing.
Bouquets will be flying about —and well
deserved, too —at the Victoria League’s
annual meeting this week. Chief Justice,
Herring will speak, and the Governor will
be present. As the league doesn’t change
office-bearers in war-time a lot of time
usually spent in voting will be saved.
Among reports presented will be that of
the league’s Red Cross co., which has
raised £7OO for p.o.w. funds during the
year, in addition to its normal work of
staffing the Hospitality Bureau of Air
Force House and various other duties.
Late afternoon is the pleasantest time
for a wedding in St. Paul’s, when the con-
gregation can hear the sounds of home-
ward-bound crowds and cars faintly in
the restful silence inside and feel in-the-
world-but-not-of-it. A bride of last week
was an Red Cross lass, Mar-
jory Wood, who* was married to U.S.
Transport Service Ensign Thomas H.
Batzer. Bridegroom’s blue uniform was
of naval cut, and the bride wore her U.S.
Red Cross uniform. Dean Langley did
the knot-tying. The bridegroom is from
Montana and the bride’s parents live in
Washington.
The new theatre which has just been
completed at Heidelberg had its baptism
on Friday, when the Governor opened it
formally and a film was shown. It had
already had an informal opening when
hospital patients had seen the same film
in the afternoon. As well as films the
theatre will be a centre for amateur
dramatics by patients, and a broadcast-
ing system will enable patients in the
wards to hear the shows. Army Educa-
tion arranges the subject matter, and the
Amenities branch sees to the fitting-out
of the theatre. Murals on Biblical sub-
jects are part of the decorations.
Students of Queen’s College, M'elb.
Uni., are wondering if it is their good
reputation or W. Shakspeare’s which has
resulted in the complete booking out of
the Union Theatre for their production
of “Hamlet” in the first day or so after
opening the box plan. The college has
an enviable list of dramatic successes to
its credit, its triumphs commencing, it is
said by some, in the time of Dr. Sugden,
whose knowledge of the drama was en-
cyclopaedic. Most outstanding hit, per-
haps, was the verse play “Winterset.”
Bill Ryall, who played the lead in that
show, will be Hamlet this time.
Latest National Theatre offering is
A. A. Milne’s comedy “Dover Road,”
which is to have a week’s run from
August 12. It’s a long while since it was
played here.
Something to make the war-time diner
green with envy was the menu of the
London Corporation’s banquet at the
Guildhall to “Colonial Premiers” (includ-
ing Australia’s Deakin) which was un-
earthed by a salvage delver last week.
Helpers at the waste-paper depot gathered
round to read the nine-course master-
piece in culinary French. The diners
started with turtle soup and ate through
quail, grouse and “a Baron of Beef”
down to jelly and ices, with champagne
of a great vintage year to help along.
The one feminine note was a ladies’
orchestra stationed in the library to regale
diners who survived the feast.
Belgian nationals in Melbourne form
a very small group, but it has always
been a popular one, as they’ve fitted well
into the community’s life. Since the fall
of Belgium they’ve been saddened by
the various rumors about events just prior
to Dunkirk. Now that the part their
army played has been vindicated by
British Government spokesmen they are,
like the French, celebrating their national
day with a good heart for the first time
for several years. Popular Consul Rene
Vanderkelen received the Belgian com-
munity at a reception at his own home
on Friday, July 21, Belgium’s Day.
“Saying it with orchids” has become a
habit at the Town Hall. For some time
past the Lady Mayoress has presented her
guests with an orchid apiece to pin on
their lapels. The Lord Mayor has now
started a new style of orchid-giving—in
pots. Mrs. Ormandy, when interviewed
this week, was proudly admiring a very
special spider orchid potted like Auntie
Flo’s aspidistra. Gardeners of the Fitz-
roy Gardens, which is the council’s pre-
serve, are responsible for this and for
the splendid floral decorations that make
the T.H. festive on occasions of note.


Divorce Notices.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW SOUTH
WALES-— ln Divorce.
TO JOHN EDWARD SCANLAN late of Sydney
TAKE NOTICE that HILDA MAY SCANLAN has
filed a Petition for Divorce No. 920 of 1944 on the
grounds of desertion without just cause or excuse for
three years and upwards If you wish to defend you
may enter an appearance at the Divorce Office
Supreme Court King Street Sydney by the Fifteenth
day of September One thousand nine hundred and
forty-four and obtain a copy of the petition without
charge from C. P. WHITE & CO. Solicitors 160
Castlereagh Street Sydney.— (l.s.) C. K. BODY,
Registrar in Divorce.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW SOUTH
WALES— In Divorce.
TO WINSTON WILLIAM PERCIVAL ROBERTS
late of Racknak in the State of New South Wales
Wool and Skin Buyer.—TAKE NOTICE that
MYRTLE ROBERTS has filed a Petition for Divorce
No. 2484 of 1943 on the ground of desertion without
just cause or excuse for three years and upwards If
you wish to defend you may enter an appearance at
the Divorce Office Supreme Court King Street Sydney
by the Eighteenth day of September 1944, and obtain
a copy of the petition without charge from A. R. De
COEK Solicitor 107 Liverpool Street Sydney.— (l.s.)
C. K. BODY, Registrar in Divorce.
&
&
Of*
o
&
c °^
e
Despite the requirements of the Services for
Cadbury’s Chocolate, you can still occasionally
obtain a block of Dairy Milk Chocolate or
Energy Chocolate (except in New South Wales
and South Australia, where transport and ship-
ping regulations do not allow us to distribute).
DMP.S15
Os
"""«///////,
■: .
PONTIAC
is making
Tin Fish instead of “Silver Streaks”
VES, it’s aircraft torpedoes which are coming from
A Pontiac these days: 24-foot shells of steel that house
one of the most complex and intricate assemblies of
precision machinery in naval warfare. Other, assignments
entrusted to Pontiac include Oerlikon 20-mm. Anti-Aircraft
Cannon, Bofors 40-mm. Field Guns, Diesel Engine Parts,
Axles for M-5 Tanks, Engine parts for Army Trucks. And,
as any Pontiac owner will tell you, what Pontiac does -
Pontiac does well. GENERAL MOTORS-HOLDEN’S LTD.
VAUXHALL
CHEVROLET
OL08MOBILE
> 'CADILLAC
SMOKE-OH!
“The only way to cure your worries is to have
babies.” — Weekly paper.
Sugar-daddies prefer them round about
twenty.
“Mabel worked in a factory producing fur
coats.” — Short story.
And did she get wrapped up in her
work!
•F »F *F *F
“When the prima donna’s false teeth dis-
appeared on the first night of the opera she
was convinced that one of the ballet girls had
stolen them out of spite.”— Magazine story.
Somebody must have had her set!
•F *F *F *F
“The would-be swindlers who set out to
float this company were persistent and pro-
ficient liars.” — Trial Judge’s comment.
It seems that when their project failed
to be
A limited concern, they might, instead,
Have formed themselves into a company
With lie ability unlimited.
F. M.
*F *F *F *F
“A new invention makes it possible to heat
canned foods artificially.”— “World’s News.”
Bridge-players will now be able to get
their husbands a hot dinner after all.
•F *F *F *F
“The girl a middle-aged husband succumbs
to is generally much younger than himself.”
— Woman’s paper.
And usually much poorer.
“If your birthday falls tomorrow the indica-
tions are that you will gain through marriage,
friendship, family affairs, etc. For many, an
engagement, wedding or visit from the stork
or perhaps all three.”
—“Daily Mirror” astrological blurb.
Dear, dear, how fast some of these
modern girls are!
4* 4* 4* *l*
“For sale, young rooster, about eight
months; also floral evening dress.”
—Hobart “Mercury.
A dressed fowl, eh?
•F *F *F *F
“Newell's clothes horses, very quiet, bassi-
nettes, child’s cot.” — Bendigo “Advertiser.
How much better than one of the loud-
mouthed sort that gives you the horse-
laugh when you put your shirt on it!
“When he spoke of his wife he ‘damned her
with faint praise.’ ” — “Women’s Weekly.”
Well, at least he didn’t just damn her
and let it go at that.
Complex.
“Even the kindliest people are sometimes cap-
able of extreme savageness .’’-^Pyschologist.
A kindly soul am 1:1 never feel
The slightest urge to wrong a harmless
eel;
I’d even give my bed without a fuss
To some poor, homeless hippopotamus.
Yet ITI confess at times I feel a will
To torture, lacerate, wreck, blast and kill
That wretched fool who tries with base
design
To prove his politics more sound than
mine !
T. W. NATHAN.
Musical Item.
“On one occasion a double murderer re-
quested that music should be played at the time
of his hanging.”— Criminologist.
“Let me have music,” he sadly sighed,
“As I face this horrible thing !”
But the governor of the jail replied
“We can only give you swing!”
NAT.
In Nelson’s Day.
I’ve tried to fathom out, and failed.
How seamen of the past,
Contemptuous of brushes, nailed
Their colors to the mast. ,
Must one infer that in windjammers.
They used to put on paint with hammers ?
BRIAN BUREAU.
Terminology.
Times change, and tongues change with
them —so
In days gone by ’twas common to
Hear mention of the “bottle-o,”
But now we trail the bottle-Q.
STANFORD.
The Masterpiece.
Zonker X. Pretzelmuncher, president of
Potboiler Productions, Inc., gnawed
fiercely at his unlit double Corona as his
brain worked at lightning speed. Sud-
denly he tipped his swivel chair forward
to an even keel and deftly shifted the
mangled cigar to the other side of his
mouth with a practised facial twist. His
eyes swept his henchmen assembled there
to consider a theme for a new opus.
“I gaht it!” he announced triumphantly.
“One stoodio’s made a fillum about a
man from down-under, so why can t we?
But we’ll make it a historical, see? Period
uniforms and costoomes, cannibals,
plenty action, romance—why it’ll be a
slap-up wow, colossal, stoopendous! ”
“Say, chief, you got something there!”
put in the producer-in-chief. “Historical,
that’s what. The fans lap it up. It’s a sure-
fire cinch for ace-director Blumenblitz.”
“Yep, I reckon the idea’s swell,” opined
the chief script writer. “I can see it
now,” he went on with enthusiasm.
“Fade-in with a middle-aged pioneer
cattle-rancher standing alongside his
covered wagon, Miranda, his beautiful
goil-wife, beside him —what a role for
Lucy Lollylegs!—gazing at the deep blue
waters of Sydney Harbor —that’d be swell
in miracle technicolor! This is the site
of his ranch. Progress shots showing
work on his mansion with convict labor,
brutal warders wielding whips. Later
ranch is complete. Among the convicts
sent to work there is Roger Masterman,
a clean-limbed young aristocrat who had
been framed in England for a crime com-
mitted by his cousin, who expected
thereby to displace Roger in a rich uncle’s
affections.
“One day Roger saves the beautiful
goil-wife from a charging bison —we can
bring in a Cockney cowboy, and that’ll
give the gagmen a chance to get in a
crack and ask if the bison was broken —
and she swoons in his arms. As she lays
soopine he covers her lips with burning
kisses, for he secretly loves her. Good
scene here for a spot of crooning by the
Four Sinkspots, soft music off the set by
Guy Geyser and his band. Next day
Captain Bligh, discoverer of the young
colony, is invited to the rancher’s man-
sion. There he recognises Roger as the
son of an old fellow-Etonian, It turns
out that he is Roger’s godfather. He”
“Say! ” burst in the chief gagman, “why
kain’t you put Captain Cook in? It don’t
matter if he didn’t discover the colony;
the fans won’t know any different. Then
I’d be able to get in a snappy crack
about ‘What’s cookin’?”’
“Nope, Al, we gotter stick to history.
It’s Bligh or nobody. Besides, he’s better
known than Cook because of that Bounty
fillum, see? But we oughter have a
national hero in it —a figger strong, stern
yet kindly. The fans expect it. But who?”
“I know,” broke in the ace-producer.
“I was talkin’ to an Ahzie airman in Los
Angeles yesterday and asking him things,
and he told me they once had a hero
greater than Ned Kelly—a guy called
Chidley* We could use him.”
“Swell! We better make him the head
, of the redcoats. Call him General Chid-
ley. That fits in okay, too. Bligh gets
the general to grant Roger a pardon.
Then Roger realises a burning ambition
and leads an expedition to open up the
huge prairie country over the great
Murray mountains. Good stuff here,
battles with cannibals and bushrangers,
fights with alligators, monkeys chattering
in trees, struggles with the native bears
until triumph crowns his hardships. But
he is still thinking wistfully of Miranda.
“Then the goil-wife persuades her
rancher-husband to join the great gold
rush just starting on the prairies. On the
way he strikes the famous Welcome
Nugget, Good close-ups of the greatest
mass of gold ever found in one piece.
“Natives put on a big dance in celebra-
tion of the find —dusky lovelies here in
hulas with Count Bosie and his band
and torch-singer Donah Shure. Then the
bushrangers hear of the find and attack.
Roger leads his Vigilantes to save the
great nugget, but in the terrific fight
that follows the rancher dies from a
boomerang thrown by Ned Kelly. Back
in Sydney with the nugget that had been
escorted by his Vigilantes Roger gets
word from England that his cousin has
confessed, his uncle is dead and he gets
the baronetcy and 100,000 grand a year.
Final fade-out shows Roger and the
beautiful Miranda confessing their love,
with Captain Bligh and General Chidley
giving their blessing—okay?”
“Swell, Butch,” said Zonker X, Pretzel-
muncher, pulling out a fresh Corona.
“Go to it, boys!”
BO.


7/6 PAID FOR
ORIGINAL JOKE IDEAS.
THE OTHER FELLW'S MIND
The contributor placed first is paid
4£d. per line; all others 2£d. per line.
Air Crew Decorations
Perhaps the most important requisite
of a bomber crew is that its members
operate as a team. From training days
onward this principle is ingrained, and
“crewing-up” preliminary to operational
service is a time for discrimination. This
is when pilots, navigators, wireless opera-
tors and gunners look each other over
and decide with whom they will risk their
necks.
They will fly together as a crew on
every kind of job—each man dependent
on the skill of the next A weak player
in the team can spell disaster for aircraft
and crew; a mistake by any man may
mean the failure of a mission. •
Awards for gallantry and/or devotion
to duty are frequently made, but almost
without exception to the pilot. He knows,
and admits, that much of the credit is
due to his crew. Surely those men, with-
out whom the bombers could not func-
tion adequately, are entitled to a share in
the recognition accorded to the pilot.
A “mention in dispatches”—little
enough recognition in such cases —of the
work of the rest of the crew would meet
the case. Is it too much to ask for?
Icar (R.A.A.F.).
Reorganise the Services
The public can realise how unsatisfac-
tory the position is when an ex-Air
Force officer of high rank and 4\ years’
service expresses his views so strongly
on waste and misdirected effort as is re-
ported in the “S.M.H.” of July 3.
A drastic reduction of staffs would tend
to greater efficiency. The routine is set
up to create jobs. Many fit young officers
in the services are not even required and
in other cases could be replaced by girls
or B-grade males. With the war moving
further away, base establishments con-
tinue to increase in size and in impotence.
There are other matters calling for
attention. Why are tinned foods used in
base establishments? Why is rice avail-
able to base units when civilians are told
they cannot have it because it is all re-
quired for the troops and natives up north
and in the islands?
Why are salvage facilities so poorly
organised in base areas? Better and more
effective salvage facilities were to be
seen in the field in Western Desert, Libya
and North Africa. Why are cigarettes
and tobacco available to base personnel
far in excess of civilians? Personnel
stationed in base areas, irrespective of
whether they are doing a necessary job or
not, are distinguished from civilians only
by wearing a uniform. Many are earning
more money than they did in Civvy-
street and many are located close to their
business interests. The bottleneck in the
transport system is largely attributable to
sending base-serving “other ranks” as far
away from their homes and States as
possible.
It is no use asking heads within the
service whether they can cut down staff.
Normally they reply by asking for more
staff. The operational side of the Army
and Air Force is fairly healthy, but a
commission of businessmen should be
appointed to investigate and reorganise
all base establishments. The result
should restore public confidence. — Bofin
(N.S.W.).
Soldier Preference
The last paragraph of your editorial'
“The R.S.L.’s Problem” (B. 28/6/’44)
was of interest to my association, en-
visaging as it does the rising of another
soldier association on a wider basis than
the R.S.S.I.L.A.
All ex-service men and ex-service
women are eligible for membership of the
Demobilised Sailors, Soldiers and Air-
men’s Association of Australia, irrespec-
tive of voluntary-enlistment or overseas-
service qualifications. The trend of ex-
pressed opinion regarding preference for
ex-service men alone justifies the estab-
lishment of this association, as it is sub-
mitted that throughout the controversy
on this question the essential point has
been missed.
My association heartily supports pref-
erence for ex-service men, but it con-
siders that the basis on which service
men are entitled to preference in post-
war employment is not the personal hero-
ism or sacrifice displayed by all or any
of them, but the disadvantages to which
they have been subjected in being
divorced from their peace-time avoca-
tions during the period which they have
been in uniform.
Reward for service bravery and sacri-
fice is the province of the Government
rather than of employers generally. The
inevitable consequence of the adoption
of this viewpoint on preference is that no
distinction as regards employment should
be made between volunteer or conscript,
front-line infantry man or “base wallah”
—the sole criterion should be length of
service.
This argument meets the view of those
who contend everybody is in this war,
and therefore everybody is entitled to
preference. In point of fact, workers on
the home front, despite their valuable and
necessary contribution to the war effort,
have been able to continue their peace-
time employment and develop their skill,
each in his particular sphere. Preference
for ex-service personnel is justified and
necessary to ensure that on discharge ser-
vice men and women will not be handi-
capped in the competition for advance-
ment in their civilian jobs.
The Returned Soldiers’ League and my
association are not rival bodies and have
worked and are working in complete har-
mony on all questions concerning ex-
service personnel. Whilst presenting a
“It IS beautiful, isn't it? But you mustn't let us buy it — there's a War on,
you know!"
united front with the R.S.L. on such
questions this association is proud of its
separate and distinct entity and intends to
exert its best efforts in the interests of
all ex-service men and ex-service women.
—W, Richardson, Queensland State Sec-
retary, D.S.S.A.A.A.
Post-war Defence
It may be deduced from Mr. Curtin’s
declaration against post-war national ser-
vice that compulsory training for youths
in militia formations is to be abolished.
Why?
Preparedness for war makes a poten-
tial enemy think twice before embarking
on aggression, but successive age-groups
of youths growing into manhood without
the slightest knowledge of armed combat
leave a country ill prepared for hostili-
ties.
For a decade there will be plenty of
trained personnel available for mobilisa-
tion; then what? The young men of
the Commonwealth will be untrained to
take the places of the veterans.
Post-war plans, besides providing for
a substantial standing army, navy and
air force, should also include the con-
tinuation of compulsory training, so that
reserves may be available in an emer-
gency.—Jeff (Vic.).
The Atlantic Charter
Your leaders are always interesting and
instructive, and that of July 5 was no
exception, but I was struck by the para-
graph in which you say “The signing of
the Atlantic Charter was announced in
the Commons by the Deputy Leader.”
H. V. Morton and Howard Spring
were the only journalists allowed on that
memorable trip to Placentia Bay, and
Morton, in his book Atlantic Meeting,
says: “The facts are that the Atlantic
Charter was never signed at all but was
approved by the President and the Prime
Minister while their ships were at anchor
on Tuesday, August 12, shortly before
Mr. Churchill sailed on his return
voyage.”
There exists, therefore, no document
sealed with wax that can take its place
in the State archives. The Atlanta
Charter was drawn up in typescript and
was redrafted time after time until it was
finally agreed upon by Mr. Churchill and
Mr. Roosevelt. Having agreed upon it,
they permitted the text to be tele-
graphed to London and to Wash-
ington. In London a special meeting
of the War Cabinet was called to
consider it. Having agreed with all its
points the War Cabinet telegraphed its
approval to Mr. Churchill while Wash-
ington telegraphed approval to the Presi-
dent.
Thus the original Atlantic Charter
is several sheets of typescript, while the
Charter, as approved by the Governments
of Great Britain and the United States,
takes the form of two long telegrams.
The Atlantic Charter is clearly one of
the most remarkable documents in his-
tory, and a world that has been taught
by bitter experience to view documents
and signatures with a certain amount of'
cynicism may feel that the fact that the
Atlantic Charter was not signed and
sealed and delivered in the usual manner
may argue well for the future of man-
kind.—James McLachlan (S.A.)
One Big Union
Two political big shots predict the
scrapping of democracy; they see it im-
perilled from within. Mr. Bruxner names
the Federal Government; Mr. Fallon
(“unless the union movement amalga-
mates unionism will be in peril of destruc-
tion by Fascism”) should name his Fas-
cist destroyers. Does he fear the em-
ployers, whose enterprise has made
unionism possible? In Queensland Mr.
Fallon rejoices at having conscripted all
workers into unions. Now he obviously
wants them all in his A.W.U.
This ambition of the A.W.U. isn’t new.
Twenty-five years ago, when the One
Big Union ideal was first advanced, the
A.W.U. denounced it because of its spon-
sors, and labelled it an offshoot of the
I.W.W. —“a parasite upon labor.” But
at the same time the A.W.U. declared
that it was an advocate of the 0.8. U.
ideal, and claimed the A.W.U. to be the
true One Big Union. 'A manifesto was
issued which stated: “The door of the
A.W.U. is open to those existing unions
who decide for themselves that their in-
dustrial interests can be better served by
their inclusion in our organisation.”
Mr. Fallon probably had a hand in
framing that manifesto. Today he is
known as an advocate of Australia-wide
compulsory unionism—conscription of
workers which would confer upon union
bosses the privilege of denying a man
the right to earn a living as the penalty
for standing outside a union. Voluntary
unionism for betterment of labor condi-
tions is a good ideal, and few men, if
unionism operated chiefly in that direc-
tion, would remain outside a union.
But in considering Mr. Fallon’s ambi-
tion to make the A.W.U. the One Big
Union it is pertinent to ask whether its
objective would be the disruption and de-
struction of existing unions and the regi-
mentation of all workers into one Fascist-
like organisation.— Vivat Democracy
(Q.).
No Coupons
Trying to buy a tin kettle in Brisbane
or a decent sort of pot or frying-pan or a
shirt to wear (and keep on wearing) is
neai'ly as hard as trying to buy a toy
or two for the kids. Therefore, a man
is justified in getting hostile when he sees
shop windows full of artificial jewellery
and all sorts of “souvenirs of Australia.”
Cheap-looking rubbish for the most
part, it sells at fancy prices. Ignor-
ing the fact that people who pay them
are nitwits, our main growl should be
that if labor can be spared to manufac-
ture this stuff it can be spared to
manufacture pots, and pans and shirts
and toys.-— Zend Avesta (Q.).
Travel Priorities
We read of pugilists, jockeys, foot-
ballers, Communist spouters, union offi-
cials and other non-essential persons
appearing at different places whenever
the occasion seems to suit them, and
it is presumed they obtain priorities.
. Other people are not so lucky.
An R.A.A.F. officer, married and liv-
ing in Brisbane, was ordered north. His
young wife wished, during his absence,
to stay with her mother in N. S. Wales.
She took what she understood was the
necessary documents to the proper
official, among the papers a certificate
from a doctor that she was three months’
pregnant. The person behind the
counter barely read the application. He
glanced through it and snapped his reply:
“No! Why do you want to go to Tenter-
field to have your baby? Why can’t you
have it in Brisbane the same as any other
woman? Your permit won’t be granted.”
-Two-up (Q.).
Some weeks ago I brought the ship I
command from New Guinea to a Queens-
land port for overhaul and repairs. I
then proposed to go to my home in
Sydney on short leave. As my ship will
be about three months in the northern
port, I applied for priority for my wife
to accompany me north again. Some
Jack-in-office flatly refused the priority.
When I remarked that on my way to
Sydney a lady and I had a first-class
carriage entirely to ourselves throughout
the journey he merely remarked “Shows
how.jvell we are doing our job.”
Since I spend 11 months each year in
New Guinea and, but for this unexpected
overhaul, should be back- there now, it
seems to be little short of despotism that
I may not enjoy my wife’s company
while in Australia. — Marooned (Q.). ,
Nationalisation
“F.P.W.” (B. 28/6/’44) will have to
find other and better reasons than the
one he advances in order to subdue those
voices calling for the strangulation of
big business by confiscation or taxation.
According to his argument, the ability
to supply a demand is its own justifica-
tion. The hundred and one principals
behind the myriad black markets now
operating with such success may now
sleep easy indeed.
This unexpected and unsolicited testi-
monial should serve as a soothing salve
to distraught conscience and certainly
puts the profiteer in good company. The
profiteer, black or white market, can
always supply the goods—at a price,—
J. A. W. (N.S.W.).
Australian Timbers
From a survey (B. 5/7/’44) of in-
dustries and activities of vital importance
to Australia’s future, the native timber
industry was omitted.
Isn’t it more than time the Australian
was taught the value of his own local
timbers, both from their worth and beauty
in the home he wants to build and their
value to Australia as an industry?
Under proper management, encouraged
by Governments, the value of our sawn
timbers would probably approach half
that of wool. Post-war, their value from
an employment point of view, sawmill-
ing and building trades, would be enor-
mous,
Australian mills, properly backed by
forestry, could supply nearly all Aus-
tralia’s requirements. Moreover, forestry
could itself employ thousands of men, on
surveys, road work for access, replanting,
thinning out useless timbers and general
supervision, and care of forests.
Indiscriminate land settlement in
timber areas without proper survey as to
forest utilisation value should no longer
be permitted.— Sawwood (N.S.W.),


Stages in the Production of Steel
atß.H.P.Newcastle Steel Works
These graphic photo-
graphs show step by
step the major phases in
the sequence of opera-
tions whereby Aus-
tralia’s vital iron and
steel needs are supplied.
m
mmm
A
2
7*55
i
mym
UKm
" - .?
"j m
Mali
SHE
I -
% a m
ih - M
■
1
A
■i
■
t Ships and the iron ore they bring from
* Whyalla, S.A., shown at the Newcastle Steel
Works. Blast furnace plant in background.
Wm
: m
i HH
I -
MM
1
WBmm
■
V-V*'-
■a
4
mm
2
iS' ■
■ ■
'As?'
.
Tapping the blast furnace’s tons of molten
iron, which is shown, after being released,
flowing from the furnace tap-hole along the sand
runners on the casting floor.
Si.
; V
Piss v"’ ’
~~v ,
■PM :
4* A spectacular study of the blast furnace tap-
ping at night as the molten iron and slag
(foreground) flow into the waiting ladles.
11
. V :
:.v?:
.
wmmm/
'
©
W
u
:
■■
■
am
$ 11
mm
0 The refined steel is shown running into 80-ton capacity ladles
• after the open hearth furnace has been tapped on the opposite
side to which the molten iron is poured in. From these ladles the
molten steel is “teemed” into ingot moulds; the ingots later provide
the feed for the rolling mills.
O Feeding a lOOft.-high blast
* furnace with iron ore, coke
and limestone. These ingredients
are dumped into the top of
the furnace, being con-
veyed there by the scale
car shown ascending the
Ik inclined runway;.
CJ The molten iron
* from the blast
furnace being poured
into the open hearth
steel furnaces, where
it is “cooked” by gas
with other ingredi-
ents for about 12
k hours and so re-
fined into steel.
IN war and peace, steel produc-
tion is our No. 1 industrial
activity. Largely through the efforts
and efficiency of The Broken Hill
Proprietary Co., Ltd., Australia
can count on an assured steel
supply, and the great economic
advantage of getting quality steel
at the world’s lowest prices.
