

ẁ
The Bulletin
“The Bulletin,” Vol. 65—No. 3378
Wednesday, November 8, 1944
Price 6d.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaoer.
Seppelts
THE NEW LAW COURTS, LONDON.
PDR very many years before 1865 efforts had been made to
concentrate the various London courts of law, but it was not
until that year that the necessary Act was passed.
The site, covering between seven and eight acres, had to be cleared,
a number of slum buildings demolished and some four thousand
Londoners rehoused. The Gothic design to which the new building
was erected is the work of a notable architect of the time, G. E.
Street, and, although he was present when the first stone was laid
in 1874, he died before Queen Victoria publicly opened the
completed building on December 4, 1882. The courts themselves
cover five acres, and the contract price was £700,000. e sout
front, shown here, measures 514 feet and the building provides
nineteen separate courts, as well as the necessary offices,
Perhaps the best features of the building are the main
entrance and the great central hall, which is 230 feet long and
48 feet wide.


UMi
This Book FREE to YOU!
STOTT’S CORRESPONDENCE COLLEGE,
100 Russell Street, Melbourne.
Please tend, without obligation, your New Free
liooklet, explaining how to Write for Profit, at
advertised in the Sydney '‘Bulletin,"
My Name
.'/>■ Addrett
SB. 244 ....AGS
THE RED PAGE
"WE WERE THE RATS."
The novelist’s first task is the creation
of character; his second, the dramati-
sation of his characters in action. It is
because he has performed these two feats
so successfully that Lawson Glassop’s
We Were the Rats (Angus and Robert-
son), besides being a kind of history and a
kind of epic—a stirring presentation of
the legend of Tobruk—is sound and
strong as a novel.
Apart from the narrator, Mick
Reynolds, the first of Glassop’s principal
characters is a little dark soldier with
gleaming black hair and a small black
moustache, who is introduced when he is
complaining about the Ingleburn latrines ;
he is established as Clive Fenstone, a sen-
sitive intellectual. Next there is Eddie,
big, blue-eyed and hard, who picks a
fight with Mick Reynolds at their first
meeting and thereafter becomes his
cobber. Here are the other principals as
Eddie introduces them;
“I want ya ter meet Pat McDonald," said
Eddie. “Pat’s a queer bloody mixture —a
Scotch-Irish-Australian. ’ ’
I saw at once that Pat had that enchant-
ing Irish smile. “Don’t take any notice of
that ape,” he said amiably. I was nearly
six feet, but he was several inches taller. I
estimated that he weighed sixteen stone, but
he was not fat. I had seen him shaving that
morning, seen the muscles bulging on his
back. He had fair hair and frank eyes.
‘‘Pat’s an insurance clerk,” said Eddie.
“We’ll have ter get him ter insure us all
before we go oil ter die for the Empire.”
We laughed. “You’d all be a better risk
than you taxi-drivers,” he said to Eddie.
“An’ this here’s ‘Happy’ Curben. He’s
an electrician. His laugh'd crack the ears
of the galahs in an old gum half a mile
away. Wonder they doan ban him from
the front line, ’cause he’ll give our positions
away.”
Happy, who was short and fat, began to
laugh. I had never heard a laugh like it.
Vou ceased to fight against it, for it over-
whelmed you.
“This here’s Harry Creege,” said Eddie.
“Not satisfied with the D.C.M. and M.M.
from the last stink. He’s after the V.C. in
this. He’s a miner. You’d uv though he’d
uy joined the pioneers so’s he could go on
diggin’ holes.”
Harry grinned. As he shook my hand
I felt the callouses on his. He was small,
his brown hair was getting thin on top and
brown face was weatherbeaten.
And this is Jim Mills. The original
bastard from the bush.”
“Glad ter know yous both,” said Jim
awkwardly. He was small and so colorless
he attracted attention. He looked as though
the sun had bleached him-—his hair, his
skin, even his eyebrows and lashes.
<( “Still got the hay in his hair,” said Eddie.
First mornin’ he come here he says
„‘Cripes, this is good-o. Yer don’t have fer
get up till five o’clock.’ ”
“And last comes Gordon C. Harday,”
said Pat. “God’s gift to the business
world.”
“Last,” said Gordon, “but not least.
Harday speaking. My card, gentlemen.”
He handed us, with a flamboyant gesture, a
card each. We read “Gordon C. Harday,
M.L.A.”
The others laughed. “How dare you
laugh at the future biggest business mag-
nate in Australia,” said Gordon in mock
annoyance. “If anybody questions me
about the M.L.A. part I say it means
‘Melbourne’s Leading Advertiser.’ ”
Clive and I laughed. We thought it was
a joke. Gordon was podgy. His plump
face and double chin betrayed a taste for
rich food, an avoidance of exercise and
a natural tendency towards fatness. His
hair was ginger, his face pale, his nose sub-
stantial and his movements awkward.
“There’s room for you in my organisa-
tion,” he said to me. “Stick to me, buddy,
and you’ll wear diamonds. It’ll be a sad
day when Harday can’t light his cigar
with a pound note.”
These are the characters. That strange
and remote being the ordinary Austra-
lian of today, encountered in his thou-
sands in the street, but so rarely portrayed
in the novel and, when seen, too often
shown in the distorting mirror of some
fashionable theory of art or politics ; that
almost legendary monster the young man
from next door—each one of Glassop’s
people would be worth meeting in any
Australian novel; and they are doubly
worth meeting in this novel of Tobruk
because, seen in the fierce and tragic lig
of war, they are seen whole, with
violent and poignant clarity, each at t
utmost intensity of his being.
Glassop has not set out to write an
thing so naive as a pacifist “attack”
war ; his men are not shown as sufferin
victims of avoidable circumstance, t
has not set out to appal the reader wit
horrors nor to harrow him with miserie
the general tone of his book is a hare
gaiety. Yet the light in which the me
are seen is essentially—and inevitably
tragic. “These were the men,” Mick thin
as he is introduced to them, “with who
I’d have to live, possibly with whom I
have to die.”
Some of these men are going to di
that is the theme that brings to We Wer
the Rats tragedy amongst its humor, di
nity amongst its colloquialism and unii
amongst its diversity.
Glassop’s handling of this theme is h
finest achievement. It could so east
have been overdone, and the novel woui
have fallen into sentimentality. It coul
so easily have been evaded, and on
would have had either an exaggerate
“toughness” or the horrifying jauntines
of “light” novels of war. But the them
is neither evaded nor qver-emphasised ;
is stated quietly as a fact, just ofte
enough to remind the reader that this is
serious novel and war a serious busines
We got up—a furniture salesman, a miner;
a farmer, an insurance clerk, a taxi-driver,
a wool-classer, an ex-jockey, an electrician
and a charlatan —and went swinging across
the parade ground, some of us grumbling
obscenely to ourselves when the corporal
shouted at us to get our arms up.
I could see Clive, with his elbows locked
his wrists pointed down, his hands “lightly
clenched.” I could see , his obdurate de-
termination to do his best, come what may.
His black moustache was bristling with
martial ardor.
Suddenly he turned his head slightly,
looked at me, and gave me a quick smile.
I saw something in his eyes, and I knew
that of us all only he and I had the
slightest idea of what lay ahead; only he
and I knew that, “somewhere on a foreign
field,” some of us would lie dying.
In the ordinary novel the writer who
seeks to show the development of charac
ter under the stress @f action takes
group of people with some common in
terest and, as his plot reaches its cul
mination, so, simultaneously, does hi
study of the personalities concerned in it
For example, to take the oldest plot in
the world: Ethelbert loves Ermyntrude
and Ermyntrude’s mother objects ; when
Ethelbert and Ermyntrude finally realise
what a snake the good old lady is they
hit her on the head with a rolling-pin
bury the body in the flour-bin, and live
happily ever after. Character and action
come simultaneously to crisis. In a his
torical novel this unity is extremely diffi-
cult to achieve. Glassop is not writing a
neat little story of the feuds or affections
that may develop among his characters
but is attempting the epic of Tobruk.
It is remarkable that he has never lost
sight of the development of character
that, even with so tempting a theme, he
has not submerged the novelist in the his-
torian ; that instead of relying merely on
the love affair of Mick Reynolds and his
Margaret to hold the book together—the
conventional and probably inescapable
pattern for war novels ; very well done
here, it might be added —Glassop has
brought every one of his principal char-
acters to crisis.
He is not able to do that neatly, all in
one culminating chapter as it would ordi-
narily be effected; but each man does,
under the threat and movement of war,
reveal himself in all the fulness of his
being before we part with him.
Clive, the sensitive intellectual, is
dramatised in an unforgettable scene in a
cemetery outside Gaza where, gazing at
a soldier’s tombstone, he falls into some
nightmare state of trance and sees his
own name on it, with the date of his
death. This certainty of doom upon him
is skilfully pushed aside by the author
for many chapters ; we see Clive broad-
ening, becoming more at ease with the
world, with his mates and with war, say-
ing and doing a hundred things he’d
“never have thought of before he joined
the army”; but underneath his mask of
ease there is panic, a panic heroically
controlled. He goes out on patrol to his
death on the date the vision had fore-
told,
Pat McDonald is “diced” by his girl in
Tobruk; he becomes a merciless killer.
“Happy,” the short fat fellow with the
overwhelming laugh, is beaten by his
nerves and shoots himself. Harry Creege,
the last war veteran with the D.C.M. and
the M.M., dies of wounds, confessing
that his life had been a failure because
he couldn’t keep off the booze, Jim, the
man from the bush, is killed. Harday,
before he dies of his wounds, admits for
a moment there is more in life than mak-
ing money—there was a girl—then goes
out defiantly, declaring “I had
ability.” Balancing this series of tragedies.
there is Mick Reynolds’s lyrical honey
moon with his Margaret on his return to
Australia ; a charming and deeply mov
ing little episode before the book end
with Reynolds going off to New Guinea.
Eddie, the tough ex-taxidriver, is an
other who comes through safe. In spite
of the color and humor of the irrepres
sible Gordon C. Harday, Eddie is Glas
sop’s most appealing piece of portraiture
In any novel written under Heming
way influence Eddie would have been
the silent “tough guy” ; in a novel written
under the influence of the journalism that
sees the “typical” A.I.F. man as a larri-
kin, Eddie, with his crudities approved
and glorified, would have been the hero
Glassop has given a finely balancer
account of him and, so far is he from
glorifying the crudities of which Eddie
himself is ashamed, the scene where
Eddie, having mistaken Julius Caesar for
a horse, leaves Mick and Clive to their
learned conversation and goes off into Tel
Aviv to get drunk *fs as moving in its
pathos as any of the deaths in battle.
Eddie is important i& a second theme
running through We Were the Rats; a
theme less emphasised than the tragedy,
less clearly worked uninten-
tional—but nevertheless very much a part
of the structure of. the book: that is, the
analyses of the present state of civilisa-
tion in Australia.
Eddie is- uneducated ; Clive and an-
other character, George Sharnmar, are in-
tellectuals ; the central character and nar-
rator, Mick Reynolds, who “mixes”
equally well with both, and whose per-
sonality is a blend of the two types, may
be considered a representative Australian
of his generation. As such, he is in many
respects as nearly “typical” as could
reasonably be expected: a cricketer of
Test standard with a naive and touching
pride in his ability to “quote from twenty
books.”
This symbology—if it was indeed the
author’s intention —cannot be followed
too closely. As is usual with first-person
characters, Mick Reynolds is not alto-
gether clearly projected. His monumental
egotism, shown in the early chapters by
his refusal to play cricket unless he is
begged to, and in the Tobruk section by
his refusal to accept a medal, and his in-
sistence on remaining in the line when
wounded —his own explanation of these
episodes, that he didn’t want his girl to
learn he was in Tobruk, is far from con-
vincing—is obviously not intended as a
satire on the national character.
There is some unsatisfactory charac-
terisation here, and there is some unsatis-
factory construction in the early chap-
ters relating to Mick Reynolds’s life in a
town called Nerridale. The author’s in-
tention must have been to submit this
section as typical of the life of the
Diggers before they joined the A.1.F.;
and if—helped as it is by a prologue
about Tobruk—it is read with this under-
standing, it “works” well enough. It
might have been better to begin the
book at the camp at Ingleburn, bringing
in the Nerridale background in retrospect.
But, compared with the weight and power
of the novel once it gets into its stride,
this is a small matter.
As a whole, it is a novel not of faults
but of excellences: excellent in its
dialogue, excellent in its characterisation,
excellent in its development, excellent in
its several crises and unforgettably excel-
lent as a picture of the Australians in
action at Tobruk. As Norman Lindsay
says in his foreword, “We have had many
brilliant enough sketches of the Digger in
action ; this is his full-length ’portrait, and
painted life-size, too.”
Tobruk was a man-sized theme to
attempt, and Glassop has handled it man-
fully. He has given as honest a picture of
war as one could ask for, afraid neither
of the squalid nor the heroic ; and he has
given an equally honest picture of the
men who fight in wars, knowing depths
and heights that none of them could pos-
sibly have conceived in the days of peace
in their Nerridales.
SUNDRY SHOWS.
With the idea of showing the Aus-
tralian public what sort of return it has
received for the £120,000,000 spent on
its activities, the Allied Works Council
has staged a show of photographs and
paintings at the N. S. Wales National
Gallery. The photographic section is
excellent —in this craft Australian prac-
titioners have nothing to learn. The
paintings add little to the impressions
conveyed by the camera eye. William
Dobell presents glimpses of men at work
which might serve as illustrations to
Dante’s “Inferno” ; Herbert McClintock,
who draws amateurishly but has a pretty
taste in color, fails to make his colors
credible. Raymond Lindsay’s pair of
Hogarthian studies, even more than
Dobell’s fantasies, convey contempt for
humanity. C. Dudley Wood, a water-
colorist who can draw, who has mastered
his medium and who is more interested
m his subjects than in C. Dudley Wood
has produced records which fulfil the pur-
pose of the exhibition, seconded by a
sing e water-color sketch by that talented
South Australian Max Ragless.
Oils and water-colors by L. C. Gillison
ex-A.1.F., are at the Park Gallery, Mel-
bourne. An engineer, he paints New
Guinea more or less from the topographi-
cal viewpoint, but he is unpretentious, and
here and there strikes off an effect verv
neatly. J
“F.S.”: With their usual dizzying effi-
ciency, American post-war planners, State
and private, show their blueprints of the
coming new world in a staggering dis-
play at the Metropolitan Gas Company’s
showrooms in Melbourne. What they did
in the last war, what they have done in
this one and what they propose to do in
the future is described in detail. Money
is no object, and in some of the schemes
Early Colonial architecture has been
copied; the result is charming. In
most of the others the architects follow
the modern fashion-—prefabrication and
all that —and the result is as depressing
as a dentist’s clinic. Nothing spiritual
could come out of those surroundings,
despite their schools, libraries, com-
munity centres, parks and children’s play-
grounds replete with every gadget, and
their highly technical devices for elimin-
ating flies, fleas, rubbish and the motor-
car menace. A film shows the horrors of
the slums and the industrial and traffic
chaos and then flashes back to these
ideal conditions. It was like Aldous Hux-
ley’s Brave New World in being. But as
one-third of America’s growing popula-
tion lives in sub-standard houses, and
speed is the essence of the contract, it is
difficult to see how the Flenry Kaisers
can be prevented from being the builders
of the new world.
“The Yeoman of the Guard” is one of
the few in the G. and S. canon which
hovers on the outskirts of tragedy and
even threatens to fall in it, only to be
rescued by Gilbert’s facile clowning. Sul-
livan picked up his collaborator’s mood
to perfection—he probably wished Gilbert
would maintain it. Having thrown off
some of its initial lethargy, the company
at His Majesty’s, Melbourne, made it a
more lively business than “The Pirates.”
As Jack Point, Ivan Menzies played his
usual detached part, and in this case was
quite in keeping, most of Gilbert’s
attempts at semi-psychological character
being like in-sets without any visible con-
nection with their surroundings. Peggy
Shea made a vivacious Phoebe.
At the talkies:
With a cast of unknowns, Ealing Studios has
scored a bulls-eye with “Nine Men” (Civic), a
desert film which in treatment affords striking
contrast to Hollywood’s “Sahara.” The Humph-
rey Bogart film gave the impression that one
marooned tank crew beat the Afrikakorps.
In the British film —about a sergeant, an ex-
Glasgow policeman and a Durham miner,
members of a lorry crew, holding a fort against
Italians who heavily outnumber them —mock
heroics have no place, there are no windy
speeches and the humor is attractive. As a
sample of director Harry Watt’s work it holds
out high hope that he will make a good, faith-
ful film of Australian life when he gets a
suitable theme.
Somerset Maugham wrote the book which pro-
vided the inspiration for “The Hour Before the
Dawn” (State, Melbourne); but it isn’t in the
same artistic street as the film version of “The
Moon and Sixpence” on the life of Gauguin,
which dealt sincerely with a serious problem.
The only serious problem in the latest opus
is whether Veronica Lake, the fascinating Nazi
spy, will guide German bombers to a camou-
flaged air park by burning a haystack. Franchot
Tone is a conscientious objector because he
objects to killing, having as a child once acci-
dentally killed a dog when shooting at a target.
His wife’s perfidy convinces him of the wrong-
ness of his judgment; he shoots her, and in the
final close-up he is seen piloting a British
bomber. In a successful spy play this would
be taken as all in order, but the audience
was more amused than impressed when the
present commentator saw it.
“Sam the Slasher”: As a lifelong
admirer of Jack the Ripper, I protest
against the talkie version of his life, show-
ing at Sydney Plaza, under the title “The
Lodger.” Though I have read one de-
lightful theory that Jack was a woman,
and though I have heard it suggested that
he had no special motive in picking on
prostitutes, but pounced on lonely women
in the streets of London simply because
they were the easiest women to pounce
on, I accept in general the argument in
the Marie Belloc Lowndes book on which
the talkie is based —that he was a mad
doctor with a revenge-motive. But, bless
my soul, the talkie —taking the most out-
rageous liberties with the book —makes
him a killer of retired actresses. As a
film about a slayer of actresses it may
be as dramatic as it is decorous, but as
a history of my old friend Jack and the
poor street women who were his victims
it is so nonsensical that I want to cut
somebody’s head off.


“TRUTH IN ADVERTISING”
“THE SENIOR STORE’
CLAVIS
RHEUMA
" Ur
«*ev*ATr*i*
5C1A7(«4
NEO(MT*>
LWM* A#P
COO?
•W *f -<* A
ntao w«K«w)
OMtESWUY
m
m
m
s
0
m
Vff
Am
m
>uT*\
>❖3
m
SarmMf^Ui
*» »»»*** 4***f ,;,
T*C o<n TM»
:
&
#
x
/
*1
m
v.
m
m
7
V,*
&
w
It
A
%
m
A
y
mm
rfT
m*
mm.
a#
*T
W&-AA'.
&
*— v
»**
/a
m:
A
yy ■ -,
mf
**
<o*
m
FAMOUS LOW PRICES
M 2401 (DAY AND NIGHT)
BOX 2712 C, C.P.0., SYDNEY
Here, in our Pharmacy, you will find qualified Chemists who
will make up your prescription accurately and satisfactorily
while you do your shopping. When you visit our Chemistry
Department you will find everything you need in Patent
Medicines, etc., and helpful assistants feady to attend to
your needs.
KELPER’S VITAMINISED OIL WITH MALT EXTRACT. Made in England
by Burroughs, Wellcome & Co. Combination of vitaminised oil concentrated
extract of malted English barley 2/9
PETROLACAR. A palatable emulsion of 25 per cent, pure mineral oil
emulsified with agar-agar. The accepted corrective of bowel disorders. 4/6
CLAVTS RHEUMA. For Rheumatism, Sciatica; Neuritis, Lumbago, Gout,
and other nervous upsets '• • • 4/
MILK EMULSION, providing essential vitamins A and D. Promotes normal
body development, maintains health and increases resistance against coughs
and colds * 4/6
CLYCURRANT COUGH LINCTUS, for all coughs. Made in England by
Allen & Hanbury. Soothes, heals and relieves. For both children and adults.
Price 6/3
ALLENBURYS’ DIET. A predigested milk and wheat food. Specially
valuable for invalids, dyspeptics, nursing mothers, convalescents and the
aged. Large size only 11/6
PABLUM. A thoroughly cooked and dried palatable mixed cereal food.
Wheatmeal, oatmeal, wheat germ, yellow corhmeal, powdered beef bone,
specially prepared. Needs no cooking 5/6
. • Chemistry—Ground Floor, Pitt Street.
Postage: N.S.W., 1/6 extra; Victoria, Tasmania and Queensland,
2/6 extra; South Australia and Western Australia, 3/6 extra.


TINBILLA WAS PROUD OF THE MOSTONS
By DON EDWARDS.
TINBILLA was proud of the Mostons
and the Mostons were just as proud
of themselves. They were the chief
sight of the township, and their tame
had spread far beyond it, even as far as
Beraga, a hundred miles out on the p ains,
and over the-range and pretty well down
to the coast on the other side.
If people knew you came from Tin-
billa they would say “Oh, that’s where
the Mostons live, isn’t it?” and then the
talk would turn to them and stay on them
for the rest of the conversation. Dad
Moston had once declared, in that boom-
ing voice that was almost as big as his
huge frame, that the place should be
called Mostonville or just plain Moston.
He meant it, too.
The Mostons always took themselves
seriously. There were nine of them: Dad
Moston who was called Dan by his sons,
his wife Martha and seven strapping
sons, ranging from twenty-five-year-old
Bill, through the twins, Bob and Alick,
down to Jack, who was fifteen. They
were a husky lot, as big as their father,
who was six feet three tall and well over
fifteen stone in weight. Even lack, the
youngest, showed signs of being as big as
any of his brothers, and Charlie, who was
eighteen, was as strong and mature-
looking as a grown man.
To see them all down the street to-
gether or filing into the hall where Regan
ran his pictures on Saturday nights was
something to be remembered. And
Martha Moston, their mother, was a
small, slim woman of forty-four, perky
as a wagtail, with a quickness and vigor
in her that seemed to express hei pride
in her husband and sons.
They were vivid personalities and, when
together, the Moston family was a per-
sonality that was overpowering.
Knowing this, they contrived to be to-
gether on many occasions. Indeed, some
of the locals who had reason to dislike
them or be jealous of them said that they
showed off by parading about in a group,
However, this minority of jealous people
was of no account, and its members were
afraid to say much openly, for a Moston
would slug you on the jaw as soon as
look at you, and if one of them did the
others would follow suit, as likely as not,
and it was no fun to be punched by a
Moston.
That went for the whole crowd of them,
Ma Moston included.
Once, when the local football team was
playing Marula, Paddy Byrnes said
“Seven Mostons in the side. It’s a wonder
they don’t put the youngest one in, too.
Look at Dan Moston there, it’s time he
gave the game up forty-six is too old.
He didn’t know Mrs. Moston was near
him till he got a smack on the face that
rattled his teeth. After that he dodged
the Mostons for weeks, not because he
WaS a coward, but—well the Mostons
were the Mostons, and there were nine
of them, and an’insult to one was an
insult to the lot.
They were good-hearted and happy,
though, and when amused at Regan’s
they’d’all roar with laughter together, so
that you’d be lucky if you heard any of
the dialogue for five minutes. On one
memorable occasion a little chap from the
city shouted at them “Silence, please,
Silence,” and Fred Moston, still laughing,
picked him up by the collar and pants
and carefully put him outside the door.
He demanded his money back, but Regan
told him to ask Fred for it. He didn’t
ask.
There were all sorts of tales told about
them, lots of them true, some of them
false, and others doubtful, like the yarn
that blamed them for carrying old Hal-
ton’s stacks of fencing material over a
mile from the recreation ground to the
river Certainly the land was Halton s,
but the township had used it for football
and cricket for years and years until
Halton in his temper decided to put a
fence round it. The posts, wires and
rails were all heaved into the river where
it cuts round the island between high red
banks. Halton never went on with the
fencing, and he never found out who
did the job that night, but he blamed the
Mostons, and after that always referred
to them as a “lot of bloody bushrangers.”
'“THEN, one morning in early autumn,
1 the Kerfoots arrived in the town, and
the Mostons were faced with the biggest
problem of their lives.
The Kerfoots came on the mixed train
that went through every morning to the
end of the line about sixty miles away
and returned the same afternoon. The
arrival of the train was an event of im-
portance, therefore many of the local
residents always stood along the platform
and gaped at the train and drawled their
comments about the few passengers who
chanced to get off.
This morning Bob and Alick Moston,
the twins, were at the station loading
limestone rock from their quarry when
the Kerfoots got out of a compartment.
Alick, the silent one, just spat and said
“Gorblime”; Bob, more voluble, spat
twice and remarked “Strike me pink.
What a mob!” —for out of the train
straggled a tall, proud-looking woman of
about fifty, a taller, bearded man of about
the same age, and seven strapping young
men.
Before Bob, Alick and the locals had
recovered from the shock of seeing so
many people leave the train at the same
time the whole crowd of the new arrivals
piled into old Halton’s car and truck and
disappeared in a swirl of red dust.
“Well, whadda y’ know?” said Bob.
Alick didn’t know anything, but within
a few minutes the news began to get
around as Jimmy Bell the teamster, Brit-
ton the storekeeper, and a couple of other
residents began to engage Cecil Field the
stationmaster in conversation.
Bob and Alick Moston joined the
group, hovered on the outskirts for a few
minutes, and then set off for home, with
Bob muttering occasionally “By the liv-
ing hell, eh! ” and Alick just looking away
past their own limestone hill to where
Halton’s homestead stood on the rise
above the river flats.
When they entered the big kitchen their
mother was busy at the stove, but a
glance at the boys told her that they had
sonje important news. She gave another
couple of stirs to the pot of soup, put the
big spoon on the table and sat down.
“Well?” she said.
“Where’s the others?” asked Bob.
“Where do y’ think? Up at the quarry,
of course,”
Bob nodded to Alick, who strolled to
the door and sent across the paddocks
a piercing and long-drawn hail that set
the fowls cackling, the dogs barking and
a flock of frightened birds winging up
from the hayshed. Bob and Alick then
sat down and waited. Ma Moston waited
also. Nothing was said till the other six
members of the family, headed by the
old man, surged through the door.
“What the hell’s the matter,” he said,
“calling us at this time?”
“I don’t know,” his wife said. “Ask
them.”
“Well, what is it? We got plenty of
work to do yet.”
Bob stood up slowly while all the other
Mostons stared at him.
“Old Halton’s sold his place to people
by the name of Kerfoot. They come
from the Riverina,” he said.
“Well, good riddance to the old skin-
flint,” said Dad, and the other boys en-
dorsed his sentiments by chuckling. “But
why get excited over that? The news
would have waited till lunch-time,
wouldn’t it?”
“The Kerfoots arrived on today’s train
to take over,” said Bob ; then, before any
of the others could comment, he added
slowly “We saw ’em arrive just now; the
old woman, the old man and seven sons ;
all big fellers like us.”
“Seven?” asked Dad.
Alick nodded. Another period of
silence followed, to be broken by Fred
who said “As big as us?”
“Pretty well, anyhow,” said Bob. “Field
says the youngest of ’em is eighteen.”
“Seven sons,” Dad muttered as if mur-
muring to his wife. “Seven sons.”
“Back to work, the lot of you,” Ma
said briskly bustling them out of the
kitchen.
As they walked back to the quarry
each of them stopped on the rise and
looked in a puzzled way at Halton’s
homestead, that showed like a small white
box in the distance against the green of
the hill behind it. Then Dad turned to
Bob and asked again “Seven of them ;
you’re sure of that?”
“Too right,” said Bob, “and big coves,
too.”
ANY newcomer to the township
attracted all the attention for a time
till he left or settled into the life of the
place, when interest would shift back
again to the Moston family.
But the Kerfoots had stolen the whole
show from the Mostons; they were new,
they had bought Halton’s place, one of
the best properties in the district, and
there were seven sons in the family.
They moved about in a mob, too, like
the Mostons. It almost seemed that old
Halton had put them up to it and was
taking revenge on the Mostons for the
affair of the fencing material.
The first meeting of the two families
was at Regan’s picture show. The whole
township had been awaiting the event,
and there was a pretty general idea that
there’d be a brawl worth seeing when
the meeting occurred. However, to the
disappointment of the audience, nothing
much happened. The Mostons entered,
as usual in a bunch, and spread them-
selves along the forms that served as
seats.
A few seconds later there was a turn-
ing of heads and a buzz of talk as Mr.
and Mrs. Kerfoot appeared at the door ;
then a silence as, followed by their sons,
they walked down the aisle and occupied
the form in front of the Mostons. A
few people sniggered, some stood up, but
Regan, with great presence of mind,
played the National Anthem and set the
show going.
Some said that Ma Moston asked Mrs.
Kerfoot to remove her hat, and Mrs.
Kerfoot said she thought Ma could see
over it, to which Ma replied that she
wasp’t a blasted giraffe. However, this
was probably just a yarn.
The townspeople settled down to the
fact of having the two families in the
town, but the Mostons wouldn’t accept
the Kerfoots, nor would the Kerfoots
accept the Mostons.
Generally they ignored each other ; but
an underlying feeling of enmity and
jealousy was apparent to anyone who
observed them at all closely, and this feel-
ing led to a few incidents, such as the
one when the six Kerfoots submitted
their names for selection in the foot-
ball team. The selectors, Dad and Bill
Moston and Harry O’Shea, didn’t pick
any of them, so the Kerfoots went off
and played with the Pallawa team.
The match between Tinbilla and Pal-
lawa (or, as the locals said, “Mostons
and Kerfoots”) was an all-in affair that
was talked about throughout the district
for weeks after. The Mostons won ; there
was - no doubt they just shaded their oppo-
nents, but then there were seven of them
to six of the Kerfoots.
After this they felt their prestige had
been restored somewhat, but things were
not the same as they had been before
the arrival of the Kerfoots. The old zest
and spirit of humor were missing from
all the Mostons except Ma, who still
darted about birdlike, eager and active
and as full of pride and confidence as
ever. She was a contrast to Dad Moston,
who felt the presence of the Kerfoots
more strongly than did any of his seven
sons. He knew that he had lost prestige.
THE biggest blow to the Mostons
occurred on the second day of the
district agricultural show. All the inhabi-
tants of the township attended the show
that day; in fact, a special train ran to
town, a train that was all carriages and
no trucks.
You bumped against people from Tin-
billa in every part of the showground.
They would be staring at the spruiker
outside the tent of the wild man, gazing
at the boxers on their platform, lounging
against the bar, estimating the finer points
of sheep and mumbling about the quality
of this year’s fruit.
Wherever you looked there was some-
one from Tinbilla, but by some sort of
old-established custom they all converged
on one section of the ground when the
ring events began after lunch. Outsiders
knew of this habit, and respected it by
keeping away from the Tinbilla section
of the ringside, where the Mostons always
occupied a picked and prominent posi-
tion. It was said they wouldn’t compete
in any of the ring events, despite their
ability with horses, because that would
have broken up their group. In fact, the
Mostons, lined along the white fence,
were an important part of the show.
Then, with one inspired gesture, the
Kerfoots dealt the Mostons a shattering
blow.
The voice of the announcer blared
from the loud-speakers the information
that the next event was for family
saddle-horses with entry number one,
“The Kerfoots, of Tinbilla,” and into the
ring rode the Kerfoots, the whole nine
on Halton*s fine cream horses.
And a magnificent sight the Kerfoots
were, clad in black riding outfits, as they
rode round the ring, while the audience
cheered, and the people of Tinbilla
cheered loudest of all. None of the
other entries had a chance. It was a
triumph for the Kerfoots, something to
keep Tinbilla talking for years.
The Mostons didn’t cheer or clap. In
a dumbfounded way they watched the
Kerfoots ride round the ring. Then Ma
Moston seemed to recover her wits. She
grinned and, moving across to Dad Mos-
ton, whispered in his ear. He grinned,
too, and started to clap; and in a sur-
prised sort of way the seven sons took
up the clapping just as the Kerfoots
approached; and all Tinbilla cheered
louder than ever.
“Bravo, bravo!” Dad shouted, so that
the Kerfoots looked towards him and
waved, and Tinbilla felt that it had
achieved a personal triumph.
FROM that day the attitude of the
Mostons changed. They were quite
friendly towards the Kerfoots, and Dad’s
greetings when he met any of the Ker-
foots were almost ostentatious.
Tinbilla wondered just what the Mos-
tons had in mind, for it wasn’t like them
to go out of their way to seek anyone s
friendship.
Outsiders sometimes said now “Oh,
Tinbilla, that’s where the Kerfoots live,
isn’t it?” but, despite this, the Mostons
accepted the Kerfoots as equals. At
Regan’s pictures on Saturday nights they
yarned to the Kerfoots in a friendly way ;
at the Church Ball Dad danced with Mrs.
Kerfoot and Ma with Mr. Kerfoot, and
then one night the whole family visited
the Kerfoots and stayed for supper.
It wasn’t natural, and the townspeople
wondered and talked and speculated
about it. In a way, they were dis-
appointed that the Mostons had given in
so easily, for, after all, the Kerfoots were
newcomers and sympathy was with the
Mostons.
Ma Moston’s attitude was most surpris-
ing of all. She was even more perky than
usual, and she seemed to be thoroughly
pleased with herself. It would have been
natural for her to swipe one of the Ker-
foots across the jaw, or tell Mrs. Ker-
foot just what she thought of her, but
instead she was polite and friendly. As
Carey the constable said, it was “damned
unnatural.”
“Ah,” said Alice Britton, the store-
keeper’s wife, “there’s something under-
neath it all. I don’t know what, but, mark
my words,'there’s something.” And there
was.
One night the Mostons gave a party.
Several of the townspeople were there,
especially the talkative ones, such as Alice
Britton and Cecil Field and his wife. And
so were all the Kerfoots.
The affair went off well, but there was
a subdued sense of excitement and happi-
ness about the Mostons that was obvious
to the Kerfoots, and that made them
uneasy.
“There’s something doing,” whispered
the intuitive Alice Britton. “Ma looks
just the same as she did the time she
cracked Paddy Byrnes.”
“And get an eyeful of Dad over there
and the way he’s looking at old Kerfoot,
said Carey. “He looks as if he’s just
busting with importance.”
And Dad looked even more important
later on when, after supper, he raised his
hand for silence, coughed self-consciously
a few times and then said “Friends, this
celebration tonight has been for the pur-
pose of letting you all know that Ma is
going to have a baby —another son.”
Ah eyes swung towards Ma Moston,
who preened herself in a contented, self-
satisfied way and nodded vigorously in
the affirmative.
“Yes, a baby,” boomed Dad as he
stared at Mr. and Mrs. Kerfoot. “Eight
sons ; eight fine sons,”
He emphasised the word “eight,” and
everyone stared at the Kerfoots, who
looked quickly from .one to the other as
if planning some way of escape.
Alice Britton tittered and went red;
Regan muttered “Well, what do y
know?” but Mr. Kerfoot jumped up
quickly and said “A son? How do you
know? It might be a girl.”
“Yes, it might be a girl,” echoed Mrs.
Kerfoot and the seven sons.
Dad turned to his family and guffawed
loudly as if he had never heard such a
joke in his life. “He says it might be a
girl,” he said. “A girl!” And all the
Mostons burst into a roar of noisy
laughter, which increased in volume as
the Kerfoots fled from the room.


The Bulletin
Vol. 65—-No. 3378.
Wednesday, November 8, 1944.
TAKING JUSTICE FOR A RIDE.


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper
“Australia for the White Man”
Directors:
H. K. Prior
P. H. Prior
J. E. Webb
David Adams
HEAD OFFICE: 252 George Street, Sydney:
Box 2521 BB; ’Phone 87971.
Victoria: Newspaper House, 247-249 Collins
Street, Melbourne.
Queensland; 239 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
Westralia : 33 Barrack Street, Perth.
New Zealand : Nathan’s Buildings Ippp.
G.P.0.), Wellington.
London : 1 Hare Place, 47 Fleet Street>
London, E.C.4.
DRIFT TO THE DEVIL.
William Fletcher is the very unusual
secretary of a trade-union itself very
unusual. It is composed of Government
railwaymen in two States, New South
Wales and Tasmania, and. there are
no communists among them, noi have
they any use for strikes or stopwork meet-
ings or any other form of larrikinism to
which the glozing term “militant” is
applied. Believing in industrial arbitra-
tion, and faithful to its engagements, the
union is, in fact, a safeguard against rail-
way strikes.
The N.S.W. branch had its annual
meeting in Sydney on October 28,
and at this meeting secretary Fletcher
spoke in very unusual terms. He said
“When the Commonwealth Government
legalised the Communist party the dis-
integration of the Australian democracy
began.”
Today we are facing a position where
we may expect a knock at the front door
at any. moment by an agent of the “New
Order” to inform us that the Government
of Australia is under entirely new manage-
ment. From my own experience and in-
quiry in the four southern States, I can
say with certainty that open rebellion is
the next step.
Then he referred to one of the methods
by which communists keep their machin-
ery in order, “petty, useless strikes that
cannot, and, as a fact, are never intended
to, assist the workers in any way,” and
gave an example of “the tremendous
power now being exercised by the Com-
munist party, brought to light in the
recent newspaper dispute.”
The Commissioner of Railways was aware
that by refusing to carry a certain news-
paper he was breaking the law, but he was
helpless. The spinelessness of the Minister
of Transport left him entirely without
support in upholding the law. He therefore
had the choice of bowing to this lawless-
ness or carrying on a lone fight which could
easily have ended in nation-wide tragedy.
Heads of great public departments are
now mere puppets of political dictation.
Another case in point, though Mr.
Fletcher did not mention it, his time being
limited, is that of the Commissioner nomi-
nally in charge of the Government abat-
toirs at Homebush. Union lawlessness,
connived at by the State Minister of
Labor and Industry and Socialist (no.
Social) Welfare —who is member for
the district in which a union mob,
with the tacit approval of himself
and other Ministers, State and Common-
wealth, set out to ruin the Portland
butcher —has removed every vestige of
power from this unfortunate gentleman.
In the result he has for a long time been
a helpless observer of proceedings which
would have made Government ownership
a laughing stock were it not far too seri-
ous a matter for laughter. \
The law of the “push” prevails at
Homebush. Union slaughtermen not
only refuse to work the very short hours
prescribed in the Industrial Commission
award, which was of their own seeking,
but strike, hold stopwork meetings in
“working” time and knock off when it
pleases them, causing chronic losses to
farmers and graziers and leaving un-
killed stock in the yards, sometimes
to die in lingering agony—in every
case with impunity. They have repeatedly
held up supplies for the Sydney market
(there was a complete stoppage for a
week when the union butchers came into
the picture with another set of lawless
proceedings), and their larrikinism, dis-
guised as unionism, is such that there
is never any certainty that supplies
for the services and for the British people
—with their pitiful meat ration of Is. 2d.
worth a week and many more mouths to
feed —will go forward. They respect no
institution but the union, and it has even
been suggested that one of the ‘“rights”
conceded to them in the spirit of utter
abasement should be the right to steal.
When three union abattoirs men were
found with stolen meat in their bags
and were prosecuted and fined (though
theft is • rampant in N. S. Wales,
especially on the wharves and rail-
ways, scarcely anyone is ever jailed
for it if he can plead that he is
a first offender) the official Labor paper
attacked not the thieves but the Commis-
sioner. It asked him sternly whether it
was “not a fact that over a number of
years it has been customary for men to
take meat home” and denounced the pro-
sedition as “not in the interests of good
industrial relations.”
But not all “heads of public depart-
ments” are “mere puppets of political
dictation.” In view of evidence given in
a High Court case heard in Melbourne
during the week in which Mr. Fletcher
spoke out in Sydney, the 41 description is
inapplicable to Commonwealth Railways
Commissioner Gahan. That gentleman
was a nominal defendant in a case in
which one H. E. Watson asked for a
declaration that he had been validly
appointed secretary, that the appointment
had been duly ratified by the Executive
Council and that Senator Collings, Min-
ister for the Interior, by making another
appointment had exceeded his powers.
Mr. Gahan was a witness for Watson and
his evidence was startling:
On June 14, 1943, I recommended
Watson’s appointment as secretary. On
June 28 Senator Collings replied approving
of the recommendation, and on July 8 I
received a telegram stating that the Execu-
tive Council had passed the appointment.
This I communicated to Watson by tele-,
phone. But about the middle of July I
was instructed by Senator Collings to instruct
Watson to resign. I refused to carry out
the instruction. There followed a discus-
sion with Senator Collings, who wanted to
know if I was still of the same opinion.
Justice Rich: Did he refer to the fact
that your appointment would terminate at
a certain time?
Mr. Gahan: No, but I got that impres-
sion.
The defence was that Watson had not
been validly appointed, and that though
he had carried out the duties of secretary
since July 5, 1943, it was only in an acting
capacity. It was contended that on July
20, 1943, the Minister had directed the
Commissioner to appoint a Mr. Harding
secretary, though he would “remain
seconded to the Army for the duration of
the war,” and Watson acting secre-
tary. Judgment was reserved, but not
before a copy of a telegram from the
Minister to the Commissioner was read
in Court:
It would be unfortunate if Mr. Gahan,
who, I understand, desires his reappoint-
ment to be considered by Cabinet, were to
give evidence not completely in accordance
with the case presented by the Common-
wealth.
When the S.A. railways were held up
for two days in two weekg —communist
technique again—because the Commis-
sioner had imposed mild fines on “absen-
tees” who gave booze as their “reason,”
adding loutish impertinence, Mr. Ward,
as Commonwealth Minister of Transport,
tried to intervene against the Commis-
sioner. In the case of Senator Collings
there was no union to temper his despot-
ism or, by discarding his nominee for the
secretaryship, substitute its own.
Senator Collings is one of the Min-
isters who are called “moderates.” Most
of them, from Mr. Curtin down, like to
be thought “moderates.” But “mod-
erates” and extremists alike are com-
mitted to the socialisation of industry,
production, distribution and exchange,
here differing from the communists only
as to means; and they have virtually
accepted lawlessness as a “union prin-
ciple,” just as they accepted the commu-
nists as referendum allies, and, through
Ministers Ward and Calwell, as associates
in the Sydney newspaper strike, pro-
nounced “illegal” and “without justifica-
tion” by the Industrial Court Bench. Since
1916, when their party proclaimed that no
Australian need fight for his country in a
foreign war unless he chose to do so as
a volunteer, envy, hate and greed have
been exploited as Labor “principles,” as
they have all along been communist
“principles.” And in at least four States
Labor, which in its great days aimed at
“the cultivation of an enlightened and
self-reliant community,” has encouraged
the people not only to expect that Gov-
ernment will coddle them from the cradle
to the grave, but to become gamblers.
So it should not be astonishing
that Labor has drifted to a position
where it stands revealed as bankrupt of
ideas, policy and courage ; so despised by
even the people who vote for it that it
was unable to persuade the bulk of
them to subscribe to the Second Victory
Loan, though in a month of frenzied
gambling, which it hadn’t the pluck to
check, it pleaded that by dint of its in-
dustrial and taxation arrangements its
supporters were receiving at least two-
thirds of the national income—four-fifths
would be nearer the mark.
Where mob leaders are concerned
there is apparently no depth *of ignominy
to which the Curtin Government is not
ready to sink. Any Government worthy
the name would have defended the High
Court when it was foully attacked, as it
was by the communist president of the
Miners’ Federation because it pronounced
wage-increases to coalminers inconsistent
with the wage-pegging regulations. This
Government, through its Minister Hollo-
way, improvised a so-called “validating”
regulation aimed at dishing the High
Court and the Constitution, being con-
cerned only with yielding to the commu-
nist president and his guilty union, even
if it means taking a long stride towards
inflation.
It would be dangerous, perhaps disas-
trous, to conclude that what Mr. Fletcher
sees as a natural result of Labor’s sur-
render to union lawlessness and of com-
munist agitation and infiltration can’t
happen here. The Americans had a war
in which men of the same race and reli-
gion “slew one another in the name of
God for four years.” It was not a
struggle in which slavery was the only
issue ; when the second year was well
advanced Lincoln wrote to Horace Gree-
ley that his policy was “to save the
Union, to save it in the- shortest way
under the Constitution,” and “not either
to save or destroy slavery.”
If I could save the Union without freeing
any slave I would do it; if I could save it
by freeing all the slaves I would do it;
and if I could do it by freeing some and
leaving others alone I would also do that.
That dreadful war, in which the flower
of the nation perished, and which only
a country with a safe geographical posi-
tion, heroic leadership and a big popu-
lation, rapidly expanding, could have
survived without dismemberment or
without becoming a prey to foreign con-
quest, came as a sequel to a series of
weak compromises with aggressive ele-
ments in slave States and to the gradual
abdication of authority under a succes-
sion of feeble Washington Governments,
ending with that of the ignoble Buchanan.
The parallels existing in the Common-
wealth have impressed themselves on the
minds of shrewd Americans who are
studying the drift of Australian affairs.
And after the last war South Africa
had a bloody outbreak among the natives
at Port Elizabeth, which was attributed
by a native leader, not himself involved,
to “bolshevik propaganda,” communists
being as active among the Kaffirs as they
are among the colored seamen who come
to these. parts. What was worse, in
March, 1922, General Smuts had to put
down a Red rising on the Rand, which
he did by declaring martial law and using
bombers, tanks and artillery, notably at
Fordsburg, where the revolutionaries
described themselves as Red Guards.
Afterwards he said:
Ugly and horrible things have happened.
Atrocities have been'committed which would
never have been expected even from bar-
barians. People have been murdered in
cold blood.
The first incident in the insurrection
was a coal strike, which the Government
vainly tried to settle by offering arbitra-
tion (refused) and setting up a concilia-
tion committee (boycotted). Meeting
force with force, it found that Fordsburg
and other places had been turned into
well-equipped fortresses, and that the
revolutionaries —there were thousands—
had large quantities of foreign-made auto-
matics, with German machine-guns, to-
gether with “a complete plan of revolution”
and “assassination lists on which the
names of virtually all the prominent people
in Johannesburg and Benoni appeared.
Casualties among the soldiers were
43 killed and 133 wounded, and
among the police 29 killed and 86
wounded; the revolutionaries lost 39
killed and 118 wounded. Casualties
among civilians, mostly innocent, were
42 killed and 197 wounded; in
this category were mine * officials at
Brakpan, who, surrendering to the com-
munists, were clubbed to death. It was
established that the Johannesburg Trades
Hall, where the Communist party had its
rooms, was revolutionary headquarters,
that a South African delegate had
attended the 1921 conference of the Com-
intern, at which, on his motion, the execu-
tive of that concern was authorised to
“take the direct initiative in awakening
the South African masses, as a necessary
step towards world revolution,” and that
the secretary of the South African Com-
munist party had been in touch with a
fellow-communist in Australia, having
written to that worthy a fortnight before
the rising began.
When communists were . conspiring
against Australia’s part, in the “imperial-
ist” war Dimitrov’s instructions, trans-
mitted from Moscow, were: — y
Communists will endeavor to draw the
opponents of war into the struggle to
transform the imperialist war info civil war
against the fascist instigators of war,
against the bourgeoisie and for the over-
throw of capitalism.
Among the possessions of the two com-
munist conspirators who were liberated
by the Curtin Government as soon as it
reached office were found particulars of
“a socialist competition” to beat up re-
cruits for communist organisations, then
outlawed —“in war industries and other
key industries (three points for each re-
cruit) ; other factory, dental and profes-
sional members (two points), housewives,
artisans, unemployed (one point).”
This [it was said] has been worked out
An accordance with the decision of the
[Communist] State Committee meeting on
the basis of Lenin’s slogan “Every mine,
factory and workshop a fortress of revolu-
tion.”
And there was a reference to
A guerrilla movement to undermine the
war-effort propaganda and influence the
youth against the war and for the fight
against consecution and compulsory mili-
tary training, until preparation is made for
something big.
When the party line changed and
the unspeakable Second-Front agitation
was about to be launched a concerted
attempt was made by communists in two
States to “a people’s army”
equipped with “machine-guns, rifles and
hand grenades,” to be “taken home.”
This was too much for even the accom-
modating Mr. Forde, who explained,
almost apologetically, that a “people’s
army” would be “a serious embarrass-
ment to the country’s defence.”
For trying to take arms out of
the hands of the Reds of the F.F.1.,
who seem more intent on fighting
their fellow-countrymen and the
Spaniards than the enemy still inside the
frontier, De Gaulle is about to be ex-
posed to the invective of communists
throughout the world. Though he re-
thrned to France with the words cher
Russia on his lips, it didn’t take him
more than a week or two to discover that
communist organisations with arms in
their hands or the means or expectation
of getting them were dangerous. They
are dangerous in all democracies, espe-
cially in those where the rule of law has
ceased or has.become despised.
The Diggers Meet.
Today, November 8, the twenty-ninth
annual congress of the Returned Sailors’,
Soldiers’ and Airmen’s Imperial League
of Australia opens in Adelaide. The
delegates cannot hope that reports of
their deliberations will be granted a tenth
of the newspaper space dedicated to the
Melbourne Cup—the world-shaking track
gallops, the staking of hundreds of thou-
sands of pounds withheld from a desper-
ately urged war loan, the arrangements
made or permitted to allow jockeys and
horses from another State to be present,
and, no doubt, for inter-State pugs, fight-
ing fit, to overcome travel priorities, mov-
ing south, instead of north. Still, service-
men from all States have been permitted
to be present —in Adelaide —and that, all
things considered, is something.
An important point that may be
debated is whether the League should
drop the keyword of its title—“ Returned”
—and another main idea on which it has
functioned: that to qualify fob member-
ship a man must have volunteered to go
outside his country to serve it in a war
capacity, “Returned” stipulating that he
will have done so.
On that clear and simple idea the
League was founded in 1916. The im-
portance of it is that it is an idea, con-
taining the finest heroic feeling possible ;
and a strong case can be made out for
preserving it at almost any cost. That in
doing so the League must remain—in Mr.
Calwell’s sneer —“exclusive” is, by a right
that nobody capable of fairness could ever
question, purely the League’s own affair.
But the question for the‘Diggers is
whether by preserving an idea in itself
most worthy of preservation they will now
be serving that major interest which pro-
duced the idea in the first place—the in-
terest of Australia. Since the League was
founded there have always “been smaller,
special associations of ex-servicemen,
though none strong enough, even
where the desire existed, to com-
pete with it. When it was founded
there were comparatively few potential
members not qualified by some overseas
service, and there was no militia quali-
fied under one though not under another
head of the League’s constitution. Now
there are very many—a great many of
them representing the difference between
the two wars—who are qualified as. volun-
tary members of the A.I.F. or R.A.A.F.,
but not as “returned” men. There are
also the militia who have served outside
Australia—some of them splendidly.
It might be questioned whether the ad-
mission of all such as these does such
outrage to the central League idea as their
exclusion does to Digger fair-mindedness
and generousness. No doubt there are
some wearing the right badges in Aus-
tralia who will never see service if they
can help it; no doubt there are some who
will be returned militia who never would
have been if they had had any choice.
But surely there are few of these com-
pared to the volunteers who have no
choice but to serve where they are-
doing, it should be said, a vital and
necessary job—and to those who went
away as militia and, by all accounts, gave
the name a new claim to respect. Also,
as no one knows better than the Diggers
assembled in Adelaide, there are many
vital jobs performed overseas in war apart
from actual front-line fighting.
Anybody could debate on these points
and considerations for hours, but the
result must boil down to one simple
proposition—whether or not the League
is to widen into the strong institution, not
sectional but national, that it can become.
If it continued as it has been it would
still be a strong and valuable national
body. It has in its choice —most impor-
tantly because it is composed of men or
all shades of political thought—to be the
strongest national body of all. During
and between wars it represents the very
opposite from the spirit which shirks
national needs and obligations without
thought for any future.
Hitherto the Diggers have been able to
meet together as a representative body.


and iron out their differences and reach
their decisions through combined discus-
sion. The alternative is a body that might
or might not share League principles ;
that would make division a fact; that might
become an opponent on national issues.
Such a possible rival organisation could
even have a positive advantage over the
League in one important national matter.
The League has declared for the demo-
cratic principle of universal national ser-
vice ; but it stands as a perpetuation of the
contrary—of the volunteer “system” of
fighting this country’s wars. It is a League
of volunteers, and not even all volunteers,
either. A rival organisation would by its
very nature represent the idea of univer-
sal obligation to serve. It would make
no distinctions, as none should be made
in war-service obligation.
Still, whatever the Diggers may decide
remains their own affair. It would be good
to see them, with the others, speaking for
themselves and for Australia as one uni-
fied representative organisation, as the
League Diggers have been able to do up
to now. But it is certainly for them-
selves to decide what they think best for
the organisation which they founded, and
which they and their sons and men like
them can be depended on to keep valu-
able to Australia.
PLAIN ENGLISH
Attacking the High Court.
A keturned-soldier delegate to a Syd-
ney Labor Council conference about
servicemen went b|ck to his League
with the dry report that he had
heard the term “Fascist” applied to all
employers, and he to be one.
But, hated and traduced, as they are, em-
ployers still have rights under the Com-
monwealth Constitution, and a group &f
them appealed to the High Court against
a wage-lifting award dashed off by one
of those “tribunals” set up independently
of the Arbitration Judges to “give the
coalminers everything they ask for”
(Minister Beasley), and the ultimate boss
of which was intended to be Mr, Willis,
the coalminers’ former secretary and
strike leader. The Full High Court ruled
that the wage-lifting award was null and
void, being in conflict with the Curtin Gov-
ernment’s National Security regulation
which pegged wages as a bulwark against
inflation.
Mr. Wells, the communist president
of the coalminers’ union, whose N.S.W.
branch is the world’s champion work-
stopping outfit, at once attacked the High
Court as “vindictive and loaded against
our union ; the High Court has always
been loaded against the workers.” This
he repeated with variations drawn from
the vocabulary of communist ruffianism.
Did Mr. Curtin or any of his Ministers
defend the High Court? Did any of
them mention that the High Court is
charged with the exercise of “the judicial
power of the Commonwealth,” and that
all Parliamentary measures and regula-
tions issued under them are expressly
“subject to the Constitution” as con-
strued by the High Court? Did any of
them point out that the High Court’s
interpretation of the defence power, in
this war as in the last, has been eminently
liberal? Not one did.
On the contrary, Mr, Holloway, return-
ing to the form in which he announced in
impassioned accents that “the industrial
workers of Australia are at last resolved
to adopt Karl Marx’s slogan ‘Workers of
the World, Unite!”’ began to explore
ways of making the High Court and the
Constitution as subordinate as his Gov-
ernment to the wage-fixing circus and the
communist Wells and his mob. After a
few days, during which he crossed swords
with Mr. Menzies and got much the worse
of the exchanges, he produced a National
Security regulation “validating” the deci-
sions of wage-lifting concerns, and
triumphantly asserted that “these deci-
sions cannot now be challenged.”
Whether he will be able to get away
with it is another matter.
No Use for Some Volunteers.
Except for a legislative alteration that
meant nothing, the Government at Can-
berra has stuck to the idea that the
ground fighting done by Australians in
this war should be done by volunteers.
Even when the Japs were threatening
invasion of the continent (they are still
on Australian territory) it persisted with
two armies, a compulsorily-enlisted army
with geographical limits and a volunteer
army with none. Yet it has treated citi-
zen volunteer movements with something
pretty close to contempt.
A variety of them sprang into being
for all sorts of war purposes from
camouflage pet-making to manning
coastal guns. Outstanding examples were
the V.D.C. and the N.E.S. The V.D.C.
comprised 014 Diggers and men and
youths either unfit or unable to join the
fighting services. These gave up their
leisure to training, went on manoeuvres,
manned heavy coastal and anti-aircraft
ajtiMery, prepared to act as a sacrificial
holding-force should enemy landings be
attempted. In quick time and with much
Jiard work, the V.D.C. built itself into a
valuable defence force, much of its suc-
cess due to the Old Diggers in its ranks.
Now that the danger has passed it has
been allowed to fade quietly away with a
perfunctory word or two of thanks from
Army Minister Forde. Its possible in-
spiration to the rising generation and its
value as a reserve force in peace-time
have been lost.
Much the same can be said of N.E.S.
Wardens, first-aiders, rescue squads,
ambulance drivers, fire guards came from
both sexes and all walks o'f life, and trained
themselves with enthusiasm and devotion.
Mainly from their own pockets they
bought necessary equipment, fitted up
posts, maintained night-watches. When
enemy raids threatened and actually oc-
curred (as in Sydney and Newcastle)
they turned out with spirit and had their
sectors under control in minutes.
Like the V.D.C, N.E.S. has been
allowed to peter out, though it could
have provided a valuable reserve of
trained people to pass on the knowledge
and keep the thing alive for future genera-
tions, who will be very fortunate if they
never have to face air attack.
In this attitude to volunteers the Labor
Government reveals its inconsistency and
its appalling lack of imagination. In the
industrial field it stands for a savage
form of compulsory unionism. Appar-
ently it sees nothing of value in voluntary
V.D.C. or N.E.S. effort, though it’s all
there to provide everything that can be
thought of for union mobs who defy the
country’s laws and hold up its war pro-
duction. Is it any wonder that this Gov-
ernment’s appeals for voluntary effort in
war loans strike no responsive chord?
"I Wrote to Mr. Curtin."
Some more unreported evidence from
the Australia First inquiry in Melbourne.
The witness is P. R. Stephensen, of the
“Publicist,” and he is being questioned
concerning 1940 issues of that periodical,
now no more;
Mr Downing : There is a cable pub-
lished on page 5 [March 5, 1940] setting
out Hitler peace proposals?—Yes. I wrote
to Mr. Curtin, trying to sound him out as
to what his reaction would be.
What was your object in obtaining Mr.
Curtin’s views? —Each month he wrote to
me. It was habitual for him to write a
letter criticising each issue of the “Publicist.”
I replied briefly, and so the'correspondence
was maintained for five years.
Did you write to Mr. Curtin in formal
and dignified terms? —No. He was in the
habit of referring to Stalin by a short
name, such as “Joe.” That is a habit of .
his —to refer flippantly to leading states-
men. Sometimes I referred to him in kind.
Presumably these statements have been
brought to the Prime Minister’s notice,
and if he disputes them it will be open
to him to give evidence in rebuttal.
Wool and the Nation.
William Winter, speaking on a less pro-
vocative theme than the need for “destroy-
ing Fascism” in Spain and Argentina;
Wool is the basis of your Austra-
lian economy. Turn where you like and
you get back to sheep—l2s,ooo,ooo of
them in Australia, I am told. They pro-
duce about 1,000,000,0001 b. of fleece. That
brings in around £60,000,000, and that’s a
big chunk of money. What will Australia
do about the problem raised by the syn-
thetics that take the place of wool?
There is another aspect that Australia
should be concerning itself with. The
“Wall Street Journal” doesn’t think much
of our chance of finding a permanent
wool market in U.S.A. Short-staple
rayon, it says, is in active competition
with imported wool and has great possi-
bilities as material for carpets. Nylon
is also entering the field:
But the great short-term peril to foreign
wool-growers who want to ship to the
United States is the war-created surplus.
The Government’s Defence Supplies Cor-
poration holds 192,000,0001 b. of Australian
wool and 4,800,0001 b. of South African
wool. The British Government has about
470.000. of wool in storage here.
Latest statistics show the Commodity
Credit Corporation holding in excess of
150.000. of the 1943 domestic clip and
close to 80,000,0001 b. of the 1944 clip.
These stocks add up to the rough equivalent
of 18 years of average pre-war wool im-
ports.
It is, of course, doubtful whether Aus-
tralia seriously regarded U.S.A. as a
likely buyer of big wool lots after the
war. All the same, the figures quoted by
the “Wall Street Journal” are worth
thinking about, if only as an indication
of how much wool will be in store when
the British purchase scheme ends.
There is to be a Wool Consultative
Council within the Post-war Reconstruc-
tion Department with a programme of
research and publicity financed by
growers and taxpayers, 2s. a bale each,
expected to raise £600,000 a year. The
thing has points, but it rathers suggests
that Mr. Curtin’s Government sees in the
maintenance of the national income from
wool its best chance of financing its
post-war dream of a workers’ heaven, in
which every registered unionist will have
nothing much to do except recline beneath
a tree and let beef and beer drop into his
mouth.
Our land industries have’ been pushed
into the background of national affairs
during the war years. But the moment
the war ends Australia will find that the
woolgrowing industry in particular is still
the core of. its national economy, and
something more will be needed than run-
ning round with glass slippers full of
subsidy money with which to pay huge
departments. The place to begin is on
the land itself.
The Solution.
“Young Comrade” sees a way out;
The conference of Federal and N.S.W. State
Labor members at Sydney was obviously dis-
turbed by the signs of voters’ dissatisfaction with
“industrial unrest.” Mr. Breen (Calare) even
declared that if an election were held now
Labor would lose many N.S.W. country seats.
Only scanty reports of the conference were
published, but they were sufficient to indicate
that Labor politicians showed once more that
shocking lack of imagination which character-
ises most of them.
With the situation as it was, surely a bold
and determined stroke was called for —one that
would cement the waverers and rally industrial
support to the Cause. For instance, the dele-
gates would have won the support of all strikers
and absentees had they given the Sydney “Gov-
ernment” a mandate to include in its onety-
oneth racing bill a clause admitting of race
meetings being held every day of a strike, Sun-
days included. This would have shown the
workers that the Government was with them,
gratified the betting interest and shortened the
strikes by more rapidly denuding the strikers
of their cash.
Also, it should have been easy enough to
ask for a law njaking it compulsory for all
hotels to have beer “on” all day on strike
days, Sundays included. What’s the good of a
strike when there’s no beer? A further con-
tribution to solidarity and that great era of post-
war blessedness for which all of us are striking
—pardon, working—would have been a de-
cision to double the lottery staff and thus
double the number of lotteries.
In such matters “poor old Holloway,” the
Federal Minister of Labor and National Ser-
vices, is years ahead of the rest. He ordered
double pay for Victorian workers on the first
Tuesday in November, though the Cup is to
be run on a Saturday. Some people have been
tipping Fddie Ward for our next P.M., but
there’ll be a swing to Holloway now, and he
deserves it.
There are some narks who will certainly
object to these ideas, but as they are mostly
taxpayers, housewives, fighting men and people
who don’t really dislike work no notice should
be taken of them. There’ll be no room for such
Fascists in the New Order! Solidarity for ever!
“PUSS! PUSS!”
“For refusing to grant the Soviet oil concessions (no mention of Persian Gulf ports), the Government at Tehran has been
denounced in Moscow as ‘disloyal.’”


FRYS
CHOCOLATE CREAM
TABLETS
Shake the BRYLCREEM jar this way
As all the Brylcreem at present being made is going to the Services, please
make the most of it when you have a supply. A few drops, well rubbed in,
will be sufficient to keep your hair smart and healthy. And remember,
"expert" shaking makes the
cream fluid, enabling you to con-
trol the flow, in a few seconds
you'll be able to measure an
economical quantity from the
even-flowing cream.
Dpn’t spend. Lend. Put your money into 5/- National Savings Stamps.
ẁ
PERSONAL LOANS
Are negotiated by the RURAL BA NJC
on a strictly confidential basis ior the
purpose of paying such items as
(a) Medical and dental expenses and
hospital charges ;
(b) Funeral expenses ;
(c) Insurance premiums ;
(d) Other pressing debts.or approved
purposes.
The following table indicates instal-
ments which will fully repay a loan »or
amounts mentioned within 12 months .
Instal.
7 9
15 5
I 3 I
I 10 10
] 18 6
3 17 0
Instal.
16 8
1 13
2 10
3 6
4 3
8 6
4
0
8
4
8
A longer period to repay may be
granted according to circumstance
with a corresponding reduction in th
instalments.
Full particulars at Personal Loans Dept.,
4 th Floor
RURAL BANK
Head Office, Martin Place, Sydney
POLITICAL POINTS
In the absence of Curtin, Beasley and
Chifley (each under the doctor’s care),
Evatt and Forde (in Wellington discussing
Anzac Pact developments), Keane and
Drakeford (in the U.S.A.), Holloway, one
of the small-fry Ministers, weighed in
with a National Security regulation
“validating” the lifting of coalminers’
wages. If the “validating” regulation is
valid it overrides the High Court, the
Constitution and the Government’s own
wage-pegging “policy.” Ex-Justice Evatt’s
reactions will be interesting if he voices
them.
Roosevelt made his last campaign
speech at Boston. His opponents are sure
to have commented with asperity on this
fact, and associated it with the Adminis-
tration’s tacit acceptance of De Valera’s
refusal to commit himself on the subject
of refusing asylum to the Nazi leaders,
though even Spain and Argentina gave
the required pledge. For many years
Boston has been in the main an Irish-
American city ; indeed, Irish-Americans
and Italian-Americans in Massachusetts
dwarf the descendants of the English
colonists. In 1928 Massachusetts was one
of the eight States which gave their elec-
toral votes to A 1 Smith, and it was
strongly pro-R'oosevelt at the three suc-
ceeding elections. This time it was listed
as uncertain.
“Poor old Holloway” invoked the
National Security Act to compel em-
ployers on defence work and other essen-
tial activities to pay penalty rates to Vic-
torian workmen on “Melbourne Cup
day,” although the State Government
declared therq could be no holiday be-
cause there is no Melbourne Cup that
day. Queen Victoria’s birthday used to
be a public holiday. There is no Queen
Victoria now, but perhaps that won’t
deter “poor old Holloway” from demand-
ing penalty rates for workers on May 24.
“Victoria will have no bad bushfires
this summer,” said Forests Minister Lind,
addressing forestry officers at Mount
Taylor. Unless he has private informa-
tion that the Government has acquired
supernatural powers over the weather, the
Minister must have been giving it praise
for measures taken to prevent repetitions
of past tragedies and to bring the State
into line with Canadian practice. But
the Government hasn’t appointed a single
bushfire authority under the Act.
It seems only the other day, whatever
the calendar may say, since the two
morning papers were extolling McKell,
The “D.T.” assured the electors that he
had “made no bad breaks,” and “S. M.
Herald’s” message to them was that he
could “fairly plead that he has best served
the State and the nation by going along
quietly.” Now what a difference in the
atmosphere! Whether a newspaper strike
casualty or not, McKell’s Saturday “Tele-
graph” article has disappeared, and the
“Herald” hints not obscurely that “by
going along quietly” he provided the
atmosphere for a raft of strikes which
could have been prevented by energy
and guts.
An early Labor Premier, Daglish, of
Perth, settled his Government and party
by coming out with, what he called “a
mark-time policy.” It was abruptly dis-
missed as a useless shuffling of feet in
the same place, “Going along quietly”
wasn’t even that, but McKell got away
with it.
, Just when Transport Minister Walsh
was being named as one of the favorites
for the succession to the Queensland
Labor Premiership he engaged in a fierce
lobby fight with Aikens, the loose-
tongued Ind. Lab. from Mundingburra.
Neither punches nor epithets were pulled,
and after the pair had been dragged apart
they tore into one another again. Aikens
went off to the hospital to have facial
damage attended to ; Walsh returned to
the still-startled House and apologised.
Next day both apologised, after being
censored at the Premier’s instance.
A sad truth was expressed in a few
words by N.S.W. Minister Dunn at the
Forestry League’s Save-the-trees confer-
ence in Sydney—“ Millions of pounds’
worth of the best timber in Australia has
gone up in smoke to make farms; some
of them very low-grade farms.” All the
States can show examples; Westralia the
worst. There grand hardwood forests
were slaughtered in the propess of putting
people (many of them tyros) on land that
wasn’t worth the cost of clearing it. Much
of the group-settlement money, all bor-
rowed, and still a liability, went west
that way.
Revealing in Brisbane that H.M.A.S.
Australia had been sent to a U.S. Pacific
base for repairs. Admiral of the Fleet
Lord Keyes made some salty remarks
ONE ADMIRAL TO ANOTHER.
OLD SEADOG MAKIN : " Listen, Keyes, we don’t mind honest criticism, so long aa
you keep your mouth shut. And, by the way, what do you take for sea-
sickness?”
which annoyed the Garden Island (Syd-
ney) unions and Admiral of the Molonglo
Norm. Makin. Admiral of the Fleet Lord
Keyes is bearing down on Sydney to en-
gage the Garden Islanders at close
quarters. Though, it will be a friendly
encounter —at least on one side — it is not
thought that Admiral of the Molonglo
Norm. Makin will be present.
No flags were flown from Government
buildings in Sydney when Princess Eliza-
beth reached the age at which Victoria
ascended the throne. They were all out
on the 27th anniversary of the Russian
Revolution. Celebrating that episode, a
young “B.A. Oxon,” who was a member
of the bogus “State Labor party” until it
was safe to come out in his true colors,
asserted that “Lenin’s superb tactics made
the revolution swift and almost bloodless.”
Nothing about the murder of the Czar,
his wife, four daughters and crippled son,
or the “liquidation” of the Russians who
objected to a foreign system being thrust
on them and to the “expropriation” of
their private property and bank balances.
They, it seems, rose “in seditious revolt ’
instead of lying down like dogs.
Official flags were half-masted in Syd-
ney on Friday, and not for a commissar
—for Princess Beatrice, the last of Queen
Victoria's nine children. Strange in these
days of crawling to communists that
somebody should have remembered.
From a circular issued to N.S.W. Gov-
ernment school teachers by the Council
of the Teachers’ Federation;
At its last meeting the Federation Council
decided to organise a teachers’ section of
the procession to be held on Sunday, Nov.
5, as part of the Russia Day celebrations.
A children’s section is being organised,
and we should appreciate any efforts you are
able to make to secure representation frorh
your school.
The time is coming when plain people
will “appreciate any efforts” to throw
communists out of the Government
schools.
It is becoming a habit for Russians tQ
arrive in the U.S.A. with the report that
they are tired of being emancipated by
the Workers’ Fatherland and would like
to be ruined by capitalism for a change.
The latest were a party of merchant sea-
men who quitted a Soviet freighter at
Seattle saying “We did not desert our
ship ; we deserted Russia.” A board of
immigration appeals gave them 90 days
to leave, explaining that they would
meanwhile be free to ship on any vessel
that would take them, and maybe whis-
pering that there were thousands of
vacancies.
Though American writers are unspar-
ing in their criticisms of Rumania and
Bulgaria, Hungary gets charitable men-
tion here and there. One of the lady
commentators on military affairs, Anne
O’Hare McCormick, notes that “it must
count in the score of Hungary that until
the Germans took control it was the last
refuge in Central Europe for Jews able to
escape from Germany, Austria, Poland
and Rumania”: *
So long as they exercised any authority
in their own house the Hungarians tried to
protect the Jews.
That will stand them in good stead at the
peace settlements, especially as it meant
stifling bitter memories of what com-
munists led by Jews (B6la Kun, Szam-
uelly, Bshm, Varga arid Pogany) did to
their unfortunate country in 1919.
Oath taken by the President:
I do solemnly swear (or affirm) that I
will faithfully execute the office of Presi-
dent of the United States, and will, to the
best of my ability, preserve, protect and
defend the Constitution of the United
States.
No one ever affirms. The second Roose-
velt is an Episcopalian, as were Washing-
ton, Madison, Monroe, W. H. Harrison,
Tyler, Taylor, Pierce and Arthur. Hoover
is a Quaker, Harding was a Baptist,
Coolidge a Congregationalist; Garfield
was “baptised a Campbellite into the fold
of the Disciples” ; John and J. Q. Adams,
Fillmore and Taft were Unitarians;
Johnson, Grant and McKinley were
Methodists; Jackson, Polk, Buchanan,
Cleveland, Benjamin Harrison and Wil-
son were Presbyterians, Jefferson, Lin-
coln and Hayes did not actually join any
church, but Lincoln attended Presbyterian
and Hayes Methodist services. The two
Roosevelts, Washington, Monroe, Jack-
son, Polk, Buchanan, Johnson, Garfield,
McKinley, Taft, Harding and Theodore
Roosevelt were Freemasons, and so is
F. D. Roosevelt.
The State-owned mines in Queensland
showed losses totalling £357,160 last year
and cokeworks at Bowen lost £7254
total, £45,484. There were other —er—
misfortunes at the Irvinebank treatment
works and the Chillagoe smelters; but
Queenslanders are used to —er —misfor-
tunes.
Victorian Assemblymen are awarding
themselves a rise—from £5OO p.a. to £650
p.a. It is known as “reimbursement of
expenses,” not as salary. In view of
everything, £5OO a year isn’t much for a
politician; but, then, many Australian
members aren’t much as politicians.
“Down in the forest something has
stirred —at last,” said the N.S.W.
Forestry Commissioner after the “Save
the Trees” conference. Now, if only
something will stir in Macquarie-street,
Sydney, where the politicians hang out!
The A.C.T. Industrie*Board has been
“re-constituted.” Its new chairman is
G. E. jFinlay, a former officer of the
Transport Union; two members are
union representatives; a fourth is a
public servant; only one speaks for em-
ployers, The displaced chairman is Lionel
Hill, sometime Labor Premier of S.A.,
“repudiated” for adhering to the Pre-
miers’ Plan, and yean, later appointed as
a “completely independent presiding
officer” by Lyons. Heaven help anyone
who tries to plant a tree now without
union sanction!
Americans in Australia during the
Commonwealth and N.S.W. election
periods acknowledged that some of our
methods, particularly compulsory and
preferential voting, puzzled them. Puzzling
to Australians is the American way of
selecting candidates for Congress by elec-
tors voting at “primaries.” It looks all
right, but in the case of a shrewd boss
with a good organisation in a district
where there are strong racial groups, to
which exercise of the franchise means
getting something for nothing, it is apt
to work out freakishly. For example, one
Vito Marcantonio went to the polls yes-
terday as the nominee of the Democrats
and Republicans and “the communist-
dominated American Labor party.” Yet,
as the mild N.Y. “Times” protested, Mar-
cantonio’s war record is “as vulnerable
as it would seem possible to compile.”
He followed the communist line. He
took a consistent stand, not 'only against
all anti-Axis assistance, but against all
measures of national defence (his was some-
times the sole vote in Congress against
them) until Russia was attacked by Ger-
many. He then completely reversed his
war attitude.
Towards the end a serviceman came out
against the fellow, but it was agreed that
he hadn’t the slightest chance.
In a message to the Italians, Churchill
told them they would be “very un-
wise” to let themselves “again fall into
the clutches of a Fascist totalitarian
system in any guise.” He didn’t mention
color —as our Mr- Calwell pointed out,
before the referendum, Fascism can be
Red —but he suggested “one or two quite
simple practical tests whereby freedom
can be known in the modern world under
peace conditions.”
Is there a right to free expression of
opinion, of opposition to and criticism of
the Government of the day?
Have the people the right to turn out
a Government of which they disapprove,
and are constitutional means provided?
Most excellent tests, but to apply them in
at least one country would be exceedingly
dangerous.


YOU CAN SERVE IN H.M.A.S. “
99
Even though you are not there in person you can help our Navy by taking extra care of
your Exid'e Batteries. Take no chances with your house-lighting equipment and car or
radio battery. Consult your local Exide dealer immediately you suspect the need for re-
placement, repair or recharging. Extra care will give you months of extra service.
tlxibe
HOUSE-LIGHTING
S3ld3liva
STILL KEEP GOING WHEN THE
REST HAVE STOPPED.
PERSONAL ITEMS
Lieut.-Colonel Brian Gilmore Mae-
graith, appointed Professor of Tropical
Medicine at Liverpool Uni., is a South
Australian Rhodes scholar, who, at 32,
became dean of the faculty of medicine at
Oxford Uni., the youngest in its history.
A product of St. Peter’s, he gained
his M. 8., D.S, at Adelaide Uni., and
M.A., Ph.D., D.Sc. at Oxford. Early in
the present war he joined the British
Army, and later became War Office chief
adviser on malarial diseases. He’s now
37.
The Burtons, of Epsom, Auckland
(M.L.), four brothers, have a war record
as striking as their baptismal handles.
Denzil, a captain, has seen active service
with the N.Z. forces in the Pacific. Athen-
ray is a sarge with the Kiwis in New
Caledonia. Wyvern is a sarge with the
A.I.F. Esmonde is a British Army major
who rose to that status from the ranks,
and in a crack regiment at that, the
King’s Royal Rifles. Back in 1933
Esmonde gave his family one day’s notice
and sailed off as a cadet with the Fin-
nish windjammer Passat. Getting thus
to London he kept himself by writing
newspaper articles on the trip till he wore
that subject out. Then one day he hap-
pened to play against a British Army
football team, and the army chaps were
so impressed by his play that they sug-
gested that he join them. Having noth-
ing better to do, he enlisted as a ranker,
and when war started was among those
immediately sent for to sit for a commis-
sion. He has seen service in India and
Burma, was wounded in the right arm
and thigh in the retreat from Tobruk, was
rather badly wounded in one foot in
Tunisia and has been mentioned in dis-
patches.
Victorian National Gallery Director
Daryl Lindsay is heading abroad to look
into modern construction, lighting, gal-
lery administration and art education.
What he 'observes will benefit the art
centre to be established in Melbourne as
a post-war project. Under the adminis-
tration of the junior member of the Lind-
say brotherhood the National Gallery has
been a live institution. He is capable of
sympathy for art that is different from
his own, a rare quality in directors, and
the walls of the gallery have changed
considerably since he started to control
them. The United States and England
will be the chief tour objectives. Since
Hitler started rampaging the U.S. has
become the home of many distinguished
modern artists, art firms and technicians.
John Branxton Clift, always called
of Breeza (N.S.W.), belongs to
that race of centaurs that opened up the
Outback' last century. His grandfather,
Sam Clift, founder of Breeza in 1830, was
one of the first five whites over the Mt,
York track wheri it was opened. Breeza
covered 300,000 acres in the 1850’s and
in 1900 its 44-stand shed shore about
100,000 sheep. J.B. did things as a matter
of course which today make adventure
stories best-sellers. He and his fellows
lived in the saddle; the station was 150
miles from the nearest doctor; there were
brushes with cattle duffers and blacks,
long rides after lost and stolen stock, hard
trips through droughts with starving
sheep, rescue epics in floods and swelter-
ing fights with fires. But. J.B.’s fame
was With horses. He rode at shows and
picnic race meetings and was active on
the turf for 72 years. He saw his last
horse win at Gunnedah in August, and
in Gunnedah he was a life member of
pretty well everything. Eighty-nine at
the end.
A. F. Deer, elected to the South Aus-
tralian Insurance Institute Committee,
holds three degrees —he’s a Bachelor of
Arts, Laws and Economics. He was
born in the United States, but both his
parents are Australians, and he can claim
to be a third-generation South Australian,
his great-grandfather having arrived there
in 1839. Deer spent a year in S.A. when
he was four, then lived in N.S.W. (being
educated at Sydney High and Uni.),
Maoriland and Queensland, returning to
S.A. about a year ago as acting manager
for the M.L.C.
W. L. Wilson, of the W.A. Chief Sec-
retary’s Department, has been made
Comptroller - General of Prisons. As
deputy comptroller he had the job of
transferring Fremantle jail prisoners to
Barton’s Miff when Jap invasion threat-
ened. Wilson arrived in W.A. from Scot-
land in 1910, joined the public service
in 1914, then left for the 1914-18 war
with the old 28th Batt. The new deputy
is A. C. MacKillop, former governor of
Dubbo jail in N.S.W., who has been in-
vestigating the Victorian penal system.
Gained the Lyell Medal from the
Geological Society of London, Dr.
Norman Ross Junner, Director of the
Geological Survey of the Gold Coast. He
is a graduate of Melbourne University. In
1913 he won the 1851 Overseas Exhibi-
tion and went to London, saw service in
the last war, then joined the Gold Coast
Service. He has published over a cen-
tury of scientific papers and added greatly
to Africa’s resources with his mineral
discoveries and other geological re-
searches.
President Roose-
velt’s awarding of
the Distinguished
Service Medal post-
humously to Field
Marshal Sir John
Dill “for an endur-
ing contribution to-
wards the victorious
conclusion of the
war and the har-
mony . of purpose
which is essential to
our security in the
years to come” was
in line with the ex-
ceptionally high ap-
preciation Ameri-
cans had all along
for Churchill’s per-
sonal representative
and leader of the
British Joint Staff
Mission in the
U.S.A. Back in Feb-
ruary Yale bestowed
its Howard Mem-
orial Prize on Sir
lohn, not only, as
New York “Times”
said, in “recognition
of distinguished, of
most distinguished,
service,” but as “an
act of gratitude” for
his great strategical
planning co - opera-
tion with General
Marshall. “No
seeker of conspicuity,” the N.Y. “Times’
added, “he has won quietly at Wash-
ington a reputation of the highest.”
A Boer War veteran. Field Marshal
Dill won the D.S.O. and a whole
string of other decorations in 1914-18,
and in the present war was Chief of the
Imperial General Staff in Britain’s darkest
days. He would have been 63 on Christ-
mas Day.
Ten Judd is an Old Digger who got
his Dip. Ag. at Hawkesbury in 1909 and
has been with the Department of Agri-
culture since 1912 —except for the 1914-
18 period. After the war he was farm
manager at Hawkesbury, then at Temora
and Wagga. A good stamp of a cove
who knows his work, Judd started the
mechanisation scheme at Nowra last year
and is now named executive officer of the
expanding enterprise.
Back in Australia for a break, Squad-
ron-Leader Charles Scherf, D. 5.0.,
D.F.C. and bar, of Emmaville, on the
New England (N.S.W.) Tableland. He
earned the odd-sounding handle of “Day-
off” through taking days off from ground
duties to go with his squadron in daylight
trips over France and Baltic ports, there-
by lifting his taffy of destroyed aircraft
from 8| to 23L
Born near Armidale (N.S.W.) in 1874,
C. Bowes Thistlethwayte, chairman-elect
of the Congregational Union (N.S.W.) for
1945-46, started off as a junior clerk in a
municipal council at half a crown a week,
subsequently studying town-planning here
and abroad. He became Kuring-gai Shire
president and is now manager and trustee
of the big Moore estate. His active Con-
gregattona l associations date back to
1893, He was elected to the Conge-
gational Union in 1901, and by holding
office as hon. treasurer for 40 years he
has achieved what s claimed to be a world
ieC ( ri n , ,
Ek Dums estimate:—
General Thomas Blarney, here modelled by
Frith, is one of the “men of the wasted years”
—those brilliant officers who came back from
the last war with world-wide reputations and
who, after a few years, were allowed to drift
into other occupations when they should have
been kept at any cost in the permanent forces,
Blarney began as a schoolmaster, and at 22
graduated to the permanent military forces
among the dazzling group which built up the
staff work of the original A.l.F.—men of the
calibre of Brudenell White and Foster, so much
praised by General Waved. Some of Blarney’s
battle orders of the last war are standard models
in British staff colleges. When this war broke
out he was appointed to command of the Sixth
Division and took it overseas. He became
A.I.F. Corps Commander in the Middle East;
In 1941, in the last stages of the Greek retreat,
he was appointed Deputy C.-in-C. to General
Wavell, the first Australian to hold such an
office in a major theatre of war. After the
outbreak of the Pacific War he was appointed
Commander-in-Chief of Allied Land Forces in
♦v,p South-west Pacific the first Australian to
me aoum west racmc me nrsr Australian iu
(Modelled by Frith.)
GENERAL BLAMEY.
hold command of a large foreign field force.
Though one of his staff officers once affection-
ately described him as “the stubbornest old
something in Australia” when roused, he is
personally a quiet, trim general officer, always
an example, despite some informality in dress
at times, in his personal neatness and good
manners —he asks his visitors whether they
“mind his pipe,” which is always alight. His
office is businesslike table clear, fur-
nishings unostentatious —smaller than that of
some officers much his junior, with a simple
map of the Pacific area on the wall, and not a
red pin in it. He takes his time in discussion,
and makes sure that his hearer understands him
and that he understands his hearer. He is always
in good physical trim —p.t. is routine with him.
And he has the great military merit of not being
afraid of public opinion. His warnings have
been salutary—he spoke out in truthful prophecy
in December, 1939, amid the scornful laughter
of boo-boo boys. He heralded the Pacific War
late in November, 1941, by comparing Aus-
tralians publicly to gazelles on the edge of a
jungle. Monuments of flimsy brick, cement
and wire gauze are falling into decay all over
the country to prove his contention of the com-
parative worthlessness of the Bob Heffron
methods of defending Sydney compared with
the Blarney methods of a “few fighter squad-
rons,” to which he had pinned his faith during
the dark days when the defence of Alexandria
and other large threatened cities was part of
his responsibilities. And his advice is still
worth listening to.
The managership of the R.S.L.’s Anzac
House in Sydney goes, of course, to an
ex-Digger, one of both the Old and the
New vintage—George E. Warner, who
had three years with the A.I.F. in the
other war and four years in the present
shindy. He’s qualified also by other ex-
perience—a couple of years managing the
New Guinea Club dt Rabaul, eight years
managing the European Club in Nairobi,
and a decade of running hotels in N.S.W.
and Queensland.
Major-General Albert Coady Wede-
meyer, who has taken over command of
the U.S. forces in China, had part of his
military training in Germany—from
July, 1936, to August, 1938. He has
since held a succession of high staff
posts, lately getting along well with
Mountbatten as Deputy Chief-of-Staff of
the Allies South-east Asia armies. He
turned 48 in July.
Succeeding the late Alex. Melrose as
chairman of the National Gallery Board
in S.A., Edward James Ranembe Morgan
~a member of the board since 1940 —
is also president of the S.A. Industrial
Court. He was born at Warwick (Q.),
but educated at St. Peter’s and Adelaide
Uni. Now 44, he’s a grandson of William
Morgan, S.A. Premier 60 years back.
“P.S.” on a thriller author:
Arthur Cask, of Adelaide, writer of 7s. 6d.
thrillers, is at rising 76 still turning out two
books a year. In the last 22 years nearly 40
of his stories have seen the light of England
and the U.S.A. He looks more like a uni-
versity professor than a writer of shockers.
The Bulletin’s ever-youthful Talbot Smith,
of Adelaide, was Cask’s literary godfather, a
review in the “Register” by T. S. of his first
story bringing him under the notice of the late
Herbert Jenkins, whose house has published
him ever since. Practising as a dentist for up-
wards of 45 years, Cask did not start writing
stories until well into the fifties. Having
migrated with his family from London to Aus-
tralia in 1920 and set up on North Terrace,
Adelaide, he found • patients so long in coming
that he began writing. To get a hearing from
the public, after his first story, The Secret of
the Sandhills, had been turned down by several
Australian publishers, he published it himself. A
paper-covered edition of a thousand copies
cost him £9B, and, with only a shilling on
each copy, the venture was a dead loss. How-
ever, when Herbert Jenkins republished the
story in London Cask got the money back, and
a good bit more the following year. Cask’s
recipe for mental activity in advancing years is
small meals, a little good alcohol and plenty
of cigarettes. He has five children, all married.
One of them, Roland Cecil 'Cask, is war
correspondent of the American “News-week,”
and is now covering the Pacific front.
Into the silence;
At 90, at Diamond Creek (Vic.), Charles
Brooking Were, one of the sons of Jonathan
Binns Were, a pioneer businessman of Mel-
bourne, who arrived in Port Phillip three years
after Batman. As receiver, paymaster and clerk
of courts, C. B. Were served in the Victorian
civil service for 38 years. Arthur Bonville
Were, who died last year, was a twin brother.
At St. Kilda, Melbourne, Katherine Youpg,
well known to a former generation of playgoers.
She was a ballet dancer at 14 with the first
Italian opera co. to tour Australia, and trod the
boards with George Coppin, Garner and Mus-
grove and J.C.W. Two sons and two daughters
were in the same profession; one son, Harry,
was with Nellie Stewart.
In Brisbane, at 86, A. Feez, solicitor, pas-
toralist and sportsman. A son of the late
Colonel Feez, he was born at Rockhampton
and educated at Kings (N.S.W.), and straight
from school joined a survey party which set out
from Rockhampton on horseback in the
’seventies for Haddon Comer on the S.A.-Q.
border to determine whether certain cattle
stations were in Q’land, N.S.W. or S.A., and
to try to find Burke and Wills. Feez several
times represented Queensland at Rugby Union
football. Squadron-Leader C. M. Feez, R.A.A.F.,
is his son.
In Perth, at 68, Fred Gates, who succeeded
John Curtin as editor of the Westralian
“Worker.” Gates, trained as an accountant,
was a former editor of the W.A. edition of
“Truth.” A modest chap, very taciturn, Gates
could have succeeded as an artist; he had good
training at the Ballarat Art School. He was
a foundation member of the A.J.A. in W.A.
Suddenly at Wellington (M.L.), aged 56,
J. J. W. Pollard, son of Tom of comic-oper.
fame. Born in Melbourne, he started on th:
Inky Way with the old Lyttelton “Times,” be
came editor of Southland “Times” and secretar
of the South Island Travel Association. Afte
that he was with the M.L. Publicity Department.
At Christchurch (M.L.), at 55, Otto Louis '■
Ballin, director of the Breweries bearing his
name. He served in France and Belgium in
1914-18.
In Melbourne, at 60, John A. Laing, a
leading consulting engineer who did as much
as any man to give Melbourne its present sky-
line. A specialist in concrete, he helped to
build the new A.M.P. building, the Alexander
Hotel and the biggest architectural surprise in
Melbourne, the State Theatre. He learnt his
methods as assistant to John Monash.
In Melbourne, at 58, Roy Charles Donald-
son, who came from India, where he was a cham-
pion swimmer, and founded the Donaldson firm
of jute brokers. Three of his sons are on active
service. One was in H.M.A.S. Australia in the
recent Philippines action; another is in the
A.1.F.; a third, who commanded the Austra-
lian Lancaster squadron previously commanded
by Rollo Kingsford-Smith, was reported missing,
but was found living with a French family
at Amiens. A fourth was killed in an aircraft
accident in England in 1942.


Society
“Tummas McN.”: That curse of
modern times the loud-speaker has
ruined yet another form of quiet enter-
tainment. It used to be my pleasure of
a Sunday to go on one of the harbor
ferry trips, and for a coupla bob have
two or three hours’ relaxation as the boat
steamed up the Lane Cove and Parramatta
Rivers or toured Middle Harbor and other
parts. Loose in the city on a recent Sun-
day for the first time in many moons,
I went aboard, prepared for an after-
noon’s ease. Hardly had the boat left
the wharf when a stentorian voice, inter-
spersed with cracklings and wheezes,
launched into a description of the Bridge
and what it cost, the wharves and other
things. The thing assaulted my ears for
the whole trip, and when the voice wasn t
declaiming the villain at the mike put
on Bing Shore or Dinah Crosby. When
I got ashore again, my nerves were shriek-
ing, my ears ringing and my gorge boil-
ing. One of these days some long-suffer-
ing citizen is going to assault one of these
abominations with a 61b. axe, after which,
perhaps, some sort of peace will return
to the earth.
* * *
“Gambit”: During 50 years there have
been only five exhibitions of “Living
Chess” in Sydney. The latest one, m
Martin-place, for.the War Loan, handi-
capped by war conditions and rain,
was but a pale shadow of former
affairs. One of the most impres-
sive was staged in the Town Hall in
April, 1914. For that the pieces were
elaborately garbed in suits of mail-armor,
with all the proper medieval accoutre-
ments. There was much pomp and cere-
and each move was announced
by gaudy heralds. The Town Hall was
crowded with spectators, and within a
week Sydney shops were denuded of
chess sets, 15,000 being sold in short
order. Wallace and Jonas were the
opposing players.
*-* * *
“Bo”: Wearing his hair long, his
draughtsboard-pattern blazer short and
his orange-and-black tie loose, he stood
in front of a polychromatic abortion at
a Sydney ratbag art exhibition, a canvas
ostentatiously tucked under one arm, and
spouted to a friend about the artist paint-
ing dynamically from the tender in-
geniousness of his subliminal inner con-
sciousness. He didn’t attempt to indicate
his idea of what the mess symbolised,
for, by the rules of “modern” art, only
the perpetrator has authority to state
what it is supposed to be about, and often
he hasn’t the foggiest idea. The talk
veered round to Orange Tie’s own genius,
and with exaggerated carelessness he took
the canvas from under‘his arm and held
it at arm’s length. In reply to a question
about it, he said “No, I’m not exhibiting.
I only completed this yesterday. It’s
something bound up, as it were, with my
own ego.” “What are you going to ask
for it?” his friend asked. “It’s not
for sale. Quite definitely, I’ll keep it
in my private collection. Ten thousand
wouldn’t buy it! ” —and he swept a
hand theatrically across his brow. An
elderly man standing near by, his face
reflecting his opinion of the fearful hash
that had been made of good paint and
canvas, tapped the dauber on the
shoulder. “Count me in—that makes ten
thousand and one that wouldn’t,” he said,
and, chivalrously raising his hat, he
moved off.
* * * *
“Tarry Rope”: The theory of “Peter
Piper” (B. 25/10/’44) that there is never
more than a 10 ten per cent, variation
in sea-water temperature in any part of
world won’t find many acceptors among
the habitues of Sydney beaches. There
are days—invariably hot days—in which
the water is so icy that it almost burns the
flesh. Jt has been explained that a sudden
burst of heat (the intensely-cold water
normally follows that) melts ice in the
Antarctic region, and the water, still
cold, is brought up by the steady current
that flows along Australia’s east coast
close into the shore. There are always
la few days at Bondi when, although the
Ibeach is crowded, there is practically no-
body in the water —those who have been
in have come out at the double. “Peter
Piper” can’t tell us that those thousands
of people mefely fancy the water is ice-
cold.
* * * *
“0.H.”: “Mac Fergus” (B. 25/10/’44)
ought to be told that the reason Boswell
did not refer to the Fairy Flag of the
“ Mister, may I have tomorrow off? Me grandmother's coming home
on leave.”
MacLeods, though he visited Dunvegan
Castle in 1773, was that the flag did not
hang in the drawing-room then.. Dr.
Norman MacLeod, later chaplain to
Queen Victoria, records that in 1799,
when a boy, he witnessed its removal
from a strong box forced open by the
smith, so that it might be waved for the
third and last time. Legend was that
the flag, fairy gift to the chief, lan Mac-
Leod, about 1380, had the power, if
waved in time of danger, to save the
MacLeods, but on only three occasions.
It was waved twice in battle, in 1490 and
in 1580. On the third occasion it was
waved to ensure the safe delivery of a
son and heir.
H*
“C.Q.”: Arbitration Court Judge
Streeton, of Melbourne, got off a neat one
when addressing an Education Week
meeting at Coburg.* Remarking that the
Judge had been a Coburg schoolboy, the
Mayor said the old adage that a prophet
has no honor in his own country would
not hold on this occasion. ’Sonah re-
torted that, inasmuch as he and his foren-
sic colleagues were for ever raising other
people’s wages but never their own, the
wisecrack might be altered to “His Honor
hath no profit in his own jurisdiction.”
* * * *
“Pitt St.”: A strange omission from
these modern architectural designs for
post-war Australian homes is the veran-
dah. Some of the houses are in other
respects attractively designed, but with-
out the verandah they appear to be naked
or half-finished —anyhow, they don’t look
like homes. It was part of the wisdom
of our fathers to insist on a deep veran-
dah as part of every home. Some of my
best memories are of parties on wide,
lighted verandahs, and during my years
in the back country the best sleeping I
ever enjoyed was in a verandah cot. To
me, and I believe to thousands more,
living in a verandahless house would be
like being in jail.
* * * *
“Melbn”: Melbourne National Gal-
lery trustees had, for once in their exist-
ence, a lively time at a recent meeting.
“Negro Baptism,” a painting by an
American artist of the “contemporary”
brand, was brought up for inspection by
director Daryl Lindsay. A gift, it had
been accepted “sight unseen,” as
auctioneers would say. The picture held
up before the trustees and the question
asked whether the gallery should hang it,
one of them shouted “Over my dead
body! ” “A pernicious piece of rubbish,”
said another, “An immature piece of
work,” opined a third. “False art,” “de-
gradation of public taste,” “ridiculous
thing,” asserted others. The only dissen-
tient was a trustee who took the \few that
as none of his colleagues had seen a negro
baptism they should not criticise a paint-
ing of that subject. It was decided to
accept the work but not to hang it.
* * * *
“Moriarty’s Ghost”: Doings which
would fit snugly into the scenario of a
gangster film have been going on in the
country at the back of Sutherland
(N.S.W.). For months there has been ex-
tensive pillaging of trains passing through
•this region, the loot being valued at “thou-
sands of pounds.” Early one morn-
ing a body of police, armed with a search
warrant, went to a shack and found
hidden there, among other matters of in-
terest to them, “a fully loaded automatic
pistol” and “a rifle and ammunition.”
While the rozzers were feasting their eyes
on these weapons a crackling sound was
heard. They rushed outside to find a cot-
tage a hundred yards away ablaze. A
crammed storehouse of furniture, petrol
and other stuff, it blew up with a loud
bang. “Flames leapt hundreds of feet up-
wards and explosions hurled blazing frag-
ments over a wide area.” Then two more
shacks were found blazing and explod-
ing, and to add to the excitement the
bush (almost as thick there as in the
near-by National Park) caught fire, and
had spread over a radius of five miles
(according to one reporter’s estimate)
before it was checked. The arrest of a
“suspected person” at revolver point and
the discovery of “electric wires, charged
from a large battery” running round one
of the burnt-out cottages were features
of an exciting day. Last time the police
were out in force in that district was when
a captured shark was found associating
with the arm of a chap named Smith.
Only practical result of efforts to get evi-
dence as to who did Smith in was the
murder of a boat-builder who might have
been of assistance —and who killed him
is still also a mystery.
* * * *
“Rover”: Mention of the internment
camp cemetery at Liverpool (N.S.W.) (B.
18/10/’44) recalls a lonely and neglected
graveyard on St. Helena Island, Moreton
Bay (Q.). This contains about 100 plain
stone crosses marked only by numbers,
without names or dates. They are graves
of convicts who died between 1870 and
1897, when St. Helena was Queensland’s
chief penal settlement. First convict
buried there was Napoleon Bonaparte,
the abo. murderer, so named because his
features were said to resemble those of
the great Corsican. The dusky Nap was
the first convict sent to the then unnamed
island in 1859. His arrival prompted a
Prisons Department official with a know-
ledge of history and a sense of humor to
suggest St. Helena as an appropriate
name for the island.
*•♦ * *
“C.W.T.,” with a musical memory:
“E.J.M.’s” reference (B. 25 /10/’44) to organ-
ist Best’s visit to Sydney set me rummaging. I
unearthed the programme of his first recital—
“ Opening of the Grand Organ in the Centennial
Hall, Sydney, by Mr. W. T. Best, Saturday,
August 9, 1890, at 3 o’clock.” He played two
of his own compositions, Fantasia, F Major, and
Overture, C Major, annotated thus: “This over-
ture has been specially composed for the in-
augural recital on the great organ in the Cen-
tennial Hall, and during its progress the full
power of the instrument will be heard, including
the great pedal reed of 64ft. sounding length.”
On the back of the programme is a picture of
the Town Hall, showing the main entrance
without a portico and the iron fence and stone
pillars as one remembers them up to 20 years
or so ago. The area between the fence and
the building shows a thick growth of small
trees and shrubs.
* * * *
“Zake”: Sunday morning at a Sydney
seaside pool. Several hardheads lying on
the concrete sun-baking, their attention
focussed on a skinny, meek-looking chap
teaching his middle-aged wife to swim.
His enjoyment of his task was so appa-
rent that it promoted discussion among
the hardheads. One fellow opined that it
was unnatural. Another suggested that
if the pupil were a snappy 1121 b. blonde
the instructor would have something
to be pleased about. Then the hardest
head spoke up. “ ’Struth, can’t you
blokes see why he’s looking so pleased?”
he asked. “Why, this is the first time
since they were married he’s been able
to tell her to keep her mouth shut.”
* # * *
“Colono”: The Northern Territory
makes a tremendous impression on those
who see it for the first time. A. G.
(“Smiler”) Hales lived in the north for a
while, and his reminiscences of that
sojourn crept into his books in the most
unexpected places. A character named
McGlusky, hero of close on a dozen of
Hales’s romances, dreams ever of making
the N.T. the brightest jewel in the British
Crown. But though he was prone to
rhapsodise concerning the gold, silver,
copper, oil, wheat, wine, fruit, beef,
mutton and wool which he declared the
North abounded in, or could be made to
yield, he pinned his main faith as a staple
industry to support a pop, of 10,000,000
on vast mulberry plantations, as a means
to silk production. As to immigrants (he
was writing in 1920), he plumped for
Italians as hard workers well suited to
the climate.
* * * *
“Ken”: Thin cardboard is pretty tough
stuff (B. 11/10/’44). Somebody in a
State Government workshop I worked
in had blundered, and a newly-made set
of pigeon-holes proved too narrow to
accommodate the index cards they were
supposed to hold. An eighth of an inch
off one of the generous margins on the
cards would enable them to fit. No
paper-cutting guillotine was available, so
it was decided to hand the job over to
the wood machinist. The cards were
clamped together in bundles to be run
over a surface-planer. Vain hope. The
knives in the plane packed up before the
first bundle had been cut. The cutting
edges were not blunted —they had been
folded back.
GLAD NEWS FOR BARDS.
“Almost any book is a best-seller now and, as
always in war-time, there is a constant demand for
verse.” —London cable.
Reach for your harps, you suitors of the Muses!
Saddle your Pegasi, you sons of song!
The time has come when whosoever chooses
May range himself among the tuneful throng
Whose claim and title nobody refuses
To climb Parnassus’ pleasant slopes along.
Spring to. your tails, to use a homely phrase!
War ever brings a brisk demand for lays.
Step up and toe the line and take your chances,
You mute inglorious Masefields and the liks.
You minstrels apt at metrical romances,
Now that the iron is hot I bid you strike,
Eschewing “morning-dawning” mesalliances
And laches from which critics get the spike.
Though inspiration be a tricky thing.
Now song is saleable who wouldn’t sing?
Pipe up, you bold artificers who traffic
In sonnets, satires, odes and Villanelles,
The tinkling lyric or the grim and graphic
Ballad of war and battlefield that tells,
The passionate iambic or the sapphic,
The triolet or any measure else
You keep in your poetic stock and store.
Verse, glory be! is popular once more.
Nathless, I fear that what is dubbed “afflatus,”
Prelude to song in these and other climes,
Is hardy likely to regain that Status
Quo that it had in peace’s piping times,
With liquor hard to come by. An hiatus
I feel in my material for rhymes,
From lightsome melodies to martial chants.
Due to the scarcity of stimulants.
N.S.W.
T. THE R.
THE FATE OF THE FOX.
“In England the fox is no longer pursued as a
privileged enemy and destroyed with honor. He is
rooted out and eliminated like other vermin.”
Poor Reynard! Once so highly-placed and firm
in
Public regard, prestige and things like that,
Now relegated to the ranks of vermin,
Classed with the polecat, weasel, stoat and rat;
Pursued no more, an honorable quarry,
By those with glowing sportsmanship elate,
Say, what an ignominious and sorry
Fall from your high estate!
What piquant memories of bygone ages
Across the rolling years with you we reach,
What' scenes you conjure up from Surtees’ pages
Limned and illumined by the arts of Leech.
Jorrocks and Pigg, could miracles be bringing
Them back to earth, in gloom your fate would
plunge, . .
And I surmise it might be even wringing
A tear from Soapy Sponge.
How will the gracious countryside outlast your
Removal from the settings one recalls,
With hounds careering over plough and pasture
And thrusters sailing over brooks and walls.
To go a-hunting ’gainst your speed and cun-
ning . . . .
Was once a sport and pastime for a king,
To take a fowling-piece and go a-gunmng
Seems quite a diff’rent thing.
Poor Reynard! If you’ll ever be renewing
Your old-time role is left for tune to tell,
Bred to be chased, and still, for those pursuing,
No less a prize for being inedible. ,
Meanwhile you’d just as lief, I shouldn t wonder,
Be shot, or trapped on your nocturnal rounds,
As finish up by getting torn asunder
And wolfed by hungry hounds.
n.s.w.
IFORD.


“Afstar”; My entry for the lead-swing-
ing stakes is a fellow I served with in
Palestine. Every day for six months he
rolled up for the sick parade at the
R.A.P., unfolding a magnificent variety
of ailments. This led to a queer sort off
friendship with the M. 0., who seemed to
get a wry amusement out of the business.
At last our hypochondriacal friend was,
on our C.O.’s fervent recommendation,
marched out of camp on transfer as a
first-class specialist (which he was). His
consequent absence from sick parade
prompted anxious inquiry from the M.O.
“Where’s Herbert this morning, Cor-
poral?” “Don’t know, sir ; I’m afraid he
must be sick,” replied the orderly, who
hadn’t heard of Herbert’s departure.
* * * *
“Wodgil”: I remember the horror with
which, as a prig aged 13, I came on the
word “backside” in the London “Times”
—it occurred in a military report on the
case of a subaltern who had been
“ragged.” Reporting the affair of
Lauzanne, the editor of “Matin,”
Granny “Herald,” who has become
positively brutal in her old age, revived
the memory:
In a record of a broadcast from Radio
Paris, played in court, Lauzanne described
American troops as arriving in North
Africa “with tins of food in the right
hand, a packet of cigarettes in tire left
and a wad of dollar bills pinned to their
backsides.”
The “D.T.” had a softer version:
The Americans come with a tin of sar-
dines in one hand, a packet of cigarettes
in the other and a kick in the pants for
France. '
The “D.T.” has her faults, but she’s
always a lady.
* * *
“Aeram”: I first heard “doodlebug,”
the dead-game Londoners’ name for
Hitler’s terror weapon, around N. S.
Wales brick quarries. When the powder-
monkey would announce “shots ready”
the men in the pit would say “Let’s
go; the doodlebug is on the ran-
tan again.” I’m told that Canadian
and U.S. miners have for years applied
the term to certain geophysical instruments
used for prospecting, and that that usage
comes from doodle-bug, an insect whose
peculiar talent enables it, if suitably in-
voked, to locate hidden treasure. Web-
ster’s Dictionary says doodle is “a trifler ;
a simple fellow,” and that doodle-sack
means the bagpipe—which goes to prove
that Noah was no Scot.
* * * *
“Jacky Roo”: Somebody may dispute
Australia’s oldest church and oldest
schoolhouse (B. 25/10/’44), but there
won’t be any argument about the oldest
pub. It’s the Bush Inn, established in
1815 at New Norfolk, in the Speck. The
locals swear to this day that at this old
bush pub beside the lovely Derwent
River William Vincent Wallace wrote
“Scenes that Are Brightest” and the opera
“Maritana” in 1838, The inn is still in
good repair, and in pre-war days catered
for a stream of tourists from the main-
land and overseas. Nellie Melba sang
there in 1924, In the garden is a giant
pear-tree planted in 1837 by Lady Frank-
lin, wife of the Governor and Arctic
explorer (“Not here—the white North
has thy bones”). Today the third genera-
tion of Cowburn proprietors will draw
you some good Tassie beer in the long,
low-ceilinged bar—when it’s “on.”
* * * *
“Pip” on soldiers who spore:
A nuisance anywhere, a snorer is doubly a
curse in the army. Almost every tent owns
one. No amount of pummelling, recrimination
or boot-slinging seems to have any effect, and
even a liberal douse from a water-bottle brings
only a sleepy malediction and the hurt ex-
pression of outraged innocence. Some of the
snorers are anxious for suggestions and will
suffer extremes of torture at the advice of their
tent mates. Two stones tied firmly in the
small of the back is a traditional remedy. It
prevents the offender from going to sleep at
first, but when he drops off from sheer fatigue
the snores roll out more sonorously than ever.
The rest of the occupants of the tent have only
the small consolation that the offender’s back
will be bruised when he wakes up in the
morning. Sleeping with the feet about nine
inches higher than the head has been recom-
mended as a cure. After sliding head-first off
his bed-board a few times during the night even
the most amenable soldier vetoes the idea.
Tying an arm or leg to the tent pole to keep
him on his side, insisting he sleep with his head
under the blankets and refusing to let him
have any supper have all been fried against
snorers, but all have failed. One company tried
the experiment of putting all snorers —de-
nounced by their mates —into the one tent.
The squabbles and pitched battles they got into
among themselves all night kept everybody
awake for miles around. They were returned
to their original tents.
* * * *
“F.S.”: Melbourne “Herald’s” gift of
£lO,OOO to the University for a Chair of
Fine Arts might have marked an epoch
had Keith Murdoch nominated the pro-
fessor. If the university refused to ac-
cept him, as it undoubtedly would, Mr.
Murdoch could have started his own
school of art, as Marshall Hall and
Melba did in relation to music. Other
jich men would have been bound to
follow this example, and soon there would
be dozens of art patrons all over the
country, as there were in the Middle Ages,
when every great noble maintained his
own artist, architect or sculptor. Percy
Grainger had the right idea. When he
presented his museum to the University
of Melbourne he insisted on it being his
museum, and he put everything in it that
was interesting to him —even the toy ship
he carved as a boy, the suits of clothes
he and his wife made, Grieg’s old trousers
and other relics of the Norwegian who
was his revered master. He didn’t ask
the university to give him anything, be-
cause he knew it couldn’t —he gave it
Grieg and Grainger.
* * *
“T.R.”: The creator of Sherlock
Holmesi (B. 25/10/’44) was not the only
popular novelist who had to battle hard
for recognition. Jeffrey Farnol’s first
novel was knocked back by many pub-
lishers. Edgar Wallace had to publish
The Four Just Men at his own expense.
Arnold Bennett made just enough from
his first published novel to pay the
cost of having the manuscript typed. Ber-
nard Shaw’s first nine years of literary
work earned him £6, of which £5 came
from writing advertisements for patent
medicines, and his first novel. Imma-
turity, completed in 1879, was refused by
every publisher in London.
4* H*
“Hamer”: The sight of one person
amongst a multitude of picnickers toting
a basketware “carryall” of the kind
everyone used to favor 30 years ago re-
minded me that these useful contrivances
have almost totally disappeared. Twin
oblong baskets fitting into one another to
make a container with a concertina capa-
city, these “carryalls” were far better
suited to their purpose than are the cheap
fibre suitcases (no longer cither cheap or
“Just saw the most beautiful girl, Joe. Height, about five feet three ;
Weight, about seven stun nine; fair hair, blue eyes, gold filling in
front tooth, small mole on left cheek —last seen Wearing pale-blue
frock, no stockings, mauve shoes -?”
fibre) which superseded them, being more
swanky-looking. The halves of the earry-
alls were useful in the home —they would
serve as a cot for baby or a bin for vege-
tables. And above all was its expansi-
bility ; with a suitcase there's always
something that must be left out.
“Si Anu”: Although there are repre-
sentatives of almost every Asiatic race
in Melbourne, the city’s cuisine hasn’t
changed. It might have been expected
that the Javanese would introduce the
rijstafel and the Malays one or two
of their 150 varieties of curries, even the
names of which are exciting—“ The Three
Virgins in One Room” and “The Shriek-
ing Sanfa and the Laughing Sayid” are
two I can remember. The explanation
probably is that as these dishes»are
peasant cooking most of our • visitors
don’t know how to cook them. A Mel-
bourne artist in Paris in pre-war days
was told by two Indian girls about the
wonders of the Indian curry, and he asked
them to prepare an example. They did
their best, but it wasn’t curry. The girls
were medicoes and eame from a class that
didn’t frequent the kitchen.
* * * *
“Hamfat”: A departed poet at one
stage of his career was the victim of a
mistaken effort to enforce sobriety. No
doubt it was thought that the prohibition
order against him was for his own good,
but it became a matter of honor with
every Bohemian who met the bard to see
that he got a drink. He would be
posted in Some doorway or lane near
the pub, and the foaming pint would be
smuggled out to him. He wasn’t the
man to resist persuasion very strenuously,
and, of course, there was the natural
delight of defying the ban. “I wish they
would lift the prohibition order so that
I would have a chance to get sober,”
he remarked whimsically one day.
* * * *
“S.T.S.”: S.A. is planning to widen its
ancient 3ft. 6in. railway line to Mt.
Gambier, which leaves the sft. 3in. Ade-
laide-to-Melbourne main line at Wolseley,
on the Victorian border. The idea is to
arrest the recent drift of S.A.’s south-
east trade towards Melbourne. The
Mount has been hard hit, anyway, by
the new Adelaide-to-Melbourne highway,
which follows the railway throughout and
cuts about 100 miles off the former route
along the coast by Mt. Gambler, Port-
land and Geelong. The only snag as to
the railway change is a possible future
decision to convert both lines to a
standard Australian 4ft. But Mc-
Intosh, S.A.’s P.W. Commissioner, has
three answers to that. (1) It won’t
happen, or, at any rate, not for a long
time. (2) To make a line narrower, if
ever required, is easy, (3) The old
local 3ft. 6in. line has now got so bad
that it has to be relaid.
* * * *
“X.S.”: A marathon crime record was
that of a “laborer” who pleaded guilty to
two counts of larceny from a dwelling
in the Criminal Court in Melbourne. It
was shown that the accused had spent
40 of his 45 years of professional acti-
vity in gaol. Sentence: Released on good
behavior bond, conditional on remaining
under Salvation Army control.
* * * *
“Reader”: “Jurumudi’s” guess (6.
4/10/’44) that future cities may be built
underground is not new. R. H. Benson
in Lord of the World, published in Lon-
don in 1907, describes that city as it will
appear in 1998. The houses are built
40ft. below the earth’s surface. Rooms,
lined with a green jade enamel suffused
with artificial sunlight, give the impres-
sion of a wood in spring. Warmth and
ventilation flow through a frieze-grating
at an even temperature. Hydraulic lifts
carry inmates to bed or to the street.
Smoke, vibration and noise are unknown,
for the streets are heavily 'floored with
rubber. Trains, trams and cars, though
travelling at tremendous speed, can hardly
be heard. Aeroplanes, also, are silent in
flight, but are equipped with an instru-
ment which emits a high, musical call
when approaching the city.
* * * *
“Potwat”: Announcement of a new
cholera vaccine which gives immunity
with one dose is a great piece of news
for the Digger. No member of the A.I.F.
has contracted the disease, beaause
the troops have not fought in choleraic
areas, but as the Nips are pushed back
and we advance into China and the
so - called Fa* East there will be
danger of it. Hundreds of thousands die
annually of cholera in these regions, and
the disease itself is extremely unpleasant.
The old method of immunisation con-
sisted of a massive dose of the vaccine
in the spine, which had to be repeated
twice, at intervals; often an unpleasant
reaction took place and the immunity
wore off in two to four months. The new
vaccine, known is BRF, is easily pre-
pared, almost on the spot, requires only
a single and much smaller dose and is
.claimed to give immunity for a year.
K •' * * *
“Pawang”: Raising the school-leaving
age to 16 doesn’t appeal to a certain
Victorian country medico. Getting an
urgent night call, he sped out to a farmer’s
place to succor a 12-year-old boy who
had taken strychnine. When the child
was well enough to make a confession
he admitted that suicide had been his in-
tention. Part of the new curriculum at
his school was teaching children to be
public speakers, and he had to make an
oration the following morning. The
thought of his ordeal had thrown the ner-
vous boy into such a state of anxiety and
upsetness that he had crept out to his
father’s barn to take what seemed to him
the easiest way of escape from an unen-
durable ordeal.
* * * m
“S.T.S.”: This is just to second (
idea of “W.P.T.” (B. 18/10/’44) that -
names of Australian rivers should
used in popular songs instead of relying
always on foreign geography. We ought
to have got over by this time the old idea
that to be good a thing must be imported.
I’m glad to be able to say a start was
made years ago in a truly Australian musi-
cal comedy by the ill-fated De Garis. It
was well staged, with the other Frith, then
at his top form, in the leading part. It was
first shown in Adelaide, but (or should
one say “and so”?) the other capitals did
not care for it. I should like to hear
“Murray Moon” again.
* * *
“F.S.”: William Dobell has been criti-
cised for painting elongated figures like
El Greco (or, to give him his right name,
Domenico Theotocopuli), who was also
dubbed a caricaturist and, up to a few
years ago, regarded as a madman be-
cause he painted saints, martyrs and
angels 25 hands high. Then he was dis-
covered by the literati to have been as
great a realistic and impressionistic painter
as Velasquez, Nobody knows'how his pic-
tures, some of which seem to represent
something seen in a distorted mirror,
were meant to be looked at. They may v
have been hung high, and viewed from
a certain standpoint may have appeared
quite normal. But the important thing is
that Domenico could paint things (as he
saw them) superbly. Surrealists and
others of the “modernist” clan who
claim El Greco as a forerunner aren’t in
so favorable a position.


ABORIGINALITIES
“Old-timer”: Old Bob, as decent as
they make ’em, and with a true pacifist’s
heart, was afflicted with poor hearing.
Being aware of the trouble it might cause
if he butted into any discussion or argu-
ment, he usually kept silent. But a long
association with his fellows and a con-
stant study of their interests had con-
vinced Bob that in bar and parlor, on the
track or in camp, by far the greatest pro-
portion of their conversation was about
racehorses. So that whenever an ani-
mated discussion arose and words ran
together and Bob became lost as to their
meaning he had one stock answer for
anybody who turned and shouted at him
for an opinion. “Good little horse,” Bob
would say in an affectionate tone of con-
viction. In most instances this usually
sufficed ; occasionally it brought laughter.
There circulated in that district a
very popular parson, and when he
took the Christmas church service
all hands rolled up, including Bob,
for whom it was an annual event.
The parson began the story of Christ.
It was hot in that little church,
and since part of the congregation, in-
cluding Bob, had imbibed, it wasn’t long
before some of them, including Bob, were
dozing. When the parson got to the part
about the ride into Jerusalem he asked
them to pause and think of this Man
riding on an humble ass. Then he noticed
the sleepers and raised his voice. “On
an ass,” he cried. “On an ass! What
think you of that!” And from the back
of the church came the pacifying reply
“Good little horse.”
* * $ *
“Hakim”: Know a Frenchman, an
old sailor, who swallowed the anchor and
settled op the land in S.A. After the
climate had had time to do its worst I
ran across him again. After the fourth
drink he gave it as his considered opinion
that my method of shooting snipe, walk-
ing them up with a dog, and using a
shotgun, was unsporting. “Mon cher
Hakim, I walk zem up avec un chien, oui,
but I shoot ze blankards wiz ze .22 rifle.”
What I want to know is whether the S.A.
snipe grow to proportions gigantic, and
dim-witted to boot, ■or whether “Narrin”
has been down amongst the cockies with
a portable musketry school?
* * * *
“Moyhu”: I lobbed in as the cocky
was about to start hand-milking 30 cows
with the aid of an aged assistant. He
took me on. “I like a man to do a fair
day’s work for his money,” he said, hand-
ing me a bucket. The assistant, bent
almost double, the front of his strides
from hip to knee glittering with con-
gealed casein, had evidently received and
absorbed similar advice. No hired hand
ever worked like that ancient. He ran
from job to job, and at meals waited
barely long enough to take his fill, seem-
ing to grudge the time spent in eating.
Noticing my upraised eyebrows, he told
me that the boss had promised him a
half-share in the farm if he did a good,
conscientious job. “When did he tell you
that?” I asked him. “When I started
here nine or ten years ago,” he answered.
“He told me that as soon as I was satis-
fied with me work to come to him and
he’d fix everything up legal.” “And did
he?” I inquired. “I haven’t asked him
yet,” the old chap went on, working fast
as he spoke. “Y’ see, I’ve improved a lot
and I do a fair day’s work, but I’m not
altogether satisfied with meself yet.”
*** ■ *
“S.T.S.”: Glad that Queensland Gov-
ernment Analyst has discovered (B.
18/10/’44) that nasturtium seeds can be
used as capers. Sixty years back, on a
“Now will you believe me ?”
long visit to relations in England, I found
boiled mutton a frequent dinner-dish,
and “caper” sauce went with it as a matter
of course. Yet I never knew of a caper
being bought by that family. The nas-
turtiums of the garden, picked green,
and pickled, were just as effective in
giving a flavor to an otherwise slightly
dull joint. Also, as “Cypress” implies,
the leaf gives an equally crisp touch to
a cheese sandwich.
H*
“M. 8”: I’m not drawing cards in this
eagle controyersy (B. 25/10/’44), but the
crow doesn’t earn the hatred of out-
backers. I’d cursed and shot black eye-
pickers .for years, always as “crows,”
until I encountered an ornithologist who
gently pointed out that it was the raven
that was guilty, not the crow, and proved
it by showing me irrefutable evidence.
It’s hard to tell ’em apart, but the raven
has a red eye, the crow a white one, and
it’s the raven that congregates in flocks
when the ewes are lambing. The crow,
an insect- and seed-eater, is mostly a
lone-hander. Still, since the word “crow”
has come to stand for everything mur-
derous in outbackers’ eyes, I suppose the
real crow must continue to bear its cross
and be shot, trapped, poisoned and
cursed along with the real killer,
* * * *
“T.G.”; A four-year-old bullock near
Townsville (Q.) got one of his front
hooves jammed in his curly horn.
Apparently that put him on his back,
and he then .got a hind hoof securely
fastened behind the front one. He was
dead when found.
* * * *
“Cape Voltaire”; Skin divers dipping
into six fathoms, about the average
limit of depth, wouldn’t be likely to meet
trouble with giant groper, simply because
they wouldn’t be down long enough to
encourage the big fish to take action.
The best skin divers, swimming down to
nearly 40 feet, are only a few seconds on
the bottom, just long enough to enable
them to grab at any likely object and
then rise. Have seen abos., dipping for
shell, arrive at the surface burdened with •
flat lumps of weed-covered stone, mis-
taken in the under-water gloom for
shell. Such naked divers might readily
enough have an argument with a shark, the
light-colored soles of their feet offering a
tempting mark as they rise. Suit divers
are more likely to strike trouble with
giant groper; though only a novice
would permit his hands to remain in a
position open to attack. Again, there is
the defence offered by nicotine. Most
divers are smokers, and nicotine-saturated
hands are repulsive to most fish. But
nicotine may be overcome by bacon or
turtle fat, and hands so tainted taken
down to 20 fathoms offer a good chance
of being bitten off. As for the skin
diver, weighing practically nothing at 40
feet down, pushing aside a quarter to
half a ton of live meat in its native ele-
ment —well, I leave it to the imagina-
tion.
* * * *
“Old Camp”: The six-foot donkey con-
ductor had 40 of the little fellows yoked,
and the load was a two-ton stamper box,
the road the native surface of the soil.
Having seen donkeys yelled at and beaten
unmercifully at seaside resorts, I ex-
pected a vocal volcano to burst forth when
the moment arrived to move. Instead,
my giant spoke to his beasts in little more
than a whisper. “Gid-up,” he said. And
the whole 40 donks leaned into their
collars and the wagon moved. “Drives
donkeys stupid to be yelled at,” he ex-
plained to me. “Didn’t you notice how
every one of them had his big ears
turned back ready to catch just a
whisper? To ears like theirs a roar would
sound like a clap of thunder.” Yes, he
spoke like that, though you’d have sworn
by the look of him that he was tough
enough to have bitten galvanised nails
in two.
* * * *
“Mat’s Mate”: Across the street from
where we roosted on the pub verandah
a little dog that would have been a terrier
only for something its mother did waited
outside a butcher’s shop. As customers
came and went the little dog breasted up
to them, made advances, and, on being
rejected, retired undismayed, to await the
next prospect. It got its reward when a
lady, coming from the shop, patted it and
then placed a bit of meaty bone on the
footpath. With a large smile and a proud
air, the little dog collected the prize and
headed for a quiet corner. 1 Then four
or five larger mongs fell upon it, assaulted
it violently, left it ki-yiking in the dust
and began quarrelling over that bone.
Mat left the seat in a hurry, swept upon
them, booted them right and left, re-
trieved the bone, collected the little dog
and placed bone and dog on the veran-
dah. “There y’ are, mate,” he said. “You
chaw that up in peace. I’ve seen coves
like you on the track, game little battlers
who get a bit o’ tucker in a fair-dinkum
way an’ then have it taken from ’em by
loafin’ bullies too lazy t’ battle for them-
selves.” The tyke wagged its stump and
got to work, and the glances it sent
towards the distant mongs were worth
seeing.
“Cou”; To “The 0.D.,” “Surcingle”
and others too humorous to mention,
here’s a chance for you to leap out of
your office chairs and prove something.
My farming encyclopaedia, The Swiss
Family Robinson, tells me how to break
in a horse. Father grabs an ear with
his teeth, biting till the blood flows, and
straightway the steed is tractable. Pa
learned the trick from a S. American
horsebreaker. Why all this glamor about
buckjumpers, outlaws and breadcrumbs?
Any bites?
* * * *
“Ivor Hyde”: Tom, the sawn-off new
hand, was put on grooming the buggy
horse. He had to (Stand on a box to
reach the nag’s back, and the cocky
noticed him hop down, go around to the
front of the horse and gently tap its
head with the currycomb. When he asked
for an explanation Tom pointed to the
back of the currycomb and said “It says
here ‘to clean, tap on face.’ ”
* * * *
“Edjudina”: Meat intended for can-
ning is first partly cooked as big lumps
in special boilers. It is then cut to likely
size, squeezed into the tin, weighed, the
lid put on and the whole soldered air-
tight. The tin is then given a further
boiling, preferably under pressure. When
lifted out, at boiling point, the tin is
“blown” by the pressure of steam and
air inside. Puncture with an awl in the
centre of the lid releases this pressure,
the hole being immediately closed with
solder. Forty-five years ago it was com-
mon when dining on tinned meat to find
one’s molars closing on a more or less
tiny bead of solder, which in its fluid
state had dropped through the puncture
aforementioned. Have known men to
get such beads jammed in a hollow
tooth, which happening, when hundreds
of miles from the dentist, was certainly
disconcerting. So about the beginning
of this century some cannery genius
thought of placing a small tray inside
the tin, said tray to catch stray drops of
solder ; which I frequently and gratefully
noted that it did. As for “M.B” (B.
4/10/ ’44) saying that said mirror-like
tray was intended to inform whether con-
tents were bad or otherwise, the inside
of the lid would do that; though I have
eaten dozens of tins the inside of which
were badly tarnished. Age will do that,
though the contents remain quite whole-
some. Tinned meat unfit is either
“blown” or putrid. Only a mug would
eat a blown tin, no one a putrid tin.
* =f= * *
“Gumsucker”; The continued success
of the redoubtable “Mat” in avoiding
matrimony reminds me of Jack Griffey,
the 40-year-old dandy of my boyhood
days. Quite presentable in appearance
and dress, owning his own comfortable
cottage and reputed to have a tolerable
wad in the bank, Jack considered him-
self the most-sought-after man in our
locality. Though he never boasted of his
escapes, he managed by an expressive
shrugging of his shoulders to convey the
idea that half the widows in the country
had been after him. Then arrived a
capable widow of about 35 to take over
old Lamb’s moribund grocery. Before
long she had the business humming. And,
what was more marvellous. Jack had
transferred his trade there. Came the day
when, having at last found a woman
worthy of him, he proposed, laying him-
self in all his uniqueness on the altar of
marriage. A couple of days later the
baker, peeping through a back window,
caught sight of his legs well up off the
floor. The widow had been unable to
accept the prize, and Jack, whether be-
cause of unrequited love, wounded pride
or mere disgust at having so humbled
himself, had picked a handy rafter and
let a short length of rope do the rest.
* * * *
“Old Camp”: Nothing extraordinary
about a dog trained to extinguish a care-
lessly dropped match or a still-lighted
cigarette bumper (B. 27/9/’44). Back
in my W.A. goldfield days I knew quite
half a dozen canines capable of such use-
fulness, their owners, having plenty of
camp leisure, finding a delight in training
them. But what I did think worth noting
was when little Ikey toddled out from the
doorway of his father’s Bayley-street shop
and placed his 18-months-old foot on a
lighted match. Dad was a clothier.
And it was not long after the second
great Coolgardie fire, when most of the
hard-hit insurance cos. had cancelled
many of their Coolgardie policies.
* * * *
“Blime”: If “The 0.D.” (B. 4/10/M4)
will split hairs, he can’t growl when
others do so. Since being obliged to
admit that ducks do sit on trees he now
switches to the words “soared” and “tree-
top” for justification, with “comfortably”
thrown in for good measure. Righto!
My Webster says: “Soar, to mount up-
ward with wings.” That duck did. In
this Gippsland district, except for a few
shade trees and road belts, the timber has
been ringbarked for 50-odd years. Any
of the treetops would hold the heaviest
of ducks and those “fine twigs” dragged
in don’t exist.
RED JACK.
She rises clear to memory’s eye
From mists of long ago,
Though we met but once, in ’9B—
the days of Cobb and Co.
’Twas driving into Hughenden
With mail and gold for load
That I saw Red Jack, the wanderer.
Come riding down the road.
Red Jack and Mephistopheles—
They knew them far and wide,
From Camooweal to Charters Towers,
The route they used to ride.
They knew them round the Selwyns where
The. Leichhardt has its source,
Along the winding cattle ways—
A woman and a horse.
And strange the tales they told of them
Who ranged the dusty track:
The great black Mephistopheles
And the red-haired witch Red Jack.
She claimed no name but that, they said,
And owned no things but these:
Her saddle, swag and * riding-kit
And Mephistopheles.
And often travellers such as I
Had seen, and thought it strange,
A woman working on the line
That crossed McKinlay range.
Had seen her in the dreary wake
Of stock upon the plains,
Her brown hand quick upon the whip
And light upon the reins.
With milling cattle in the yard
Amid the dust-fouled air,
With rope and knife and branding iron—
A girl with glowing hair.
“Red Jack’s as good as any man!”
The settlers used to own;
And some bold spirits sought her hand,
But Red Jack rode alone.
She rode alone, and wise men learned
To set her virtue high,
To weigh what, skill she plied her whip
With the hardness of her eye.
I saw Red Jack in ’9B,
The first time and the last,
But her face, brown-gaunt, and her hair,
red-bright,
Still haunt me from the past.
The coach drew in as she rode to sight;
We passed the time of day;
Then shuffled out the mail she sought
And watched her ride away.
And oh! her hair was living fire,
But her eyes were cold as stone:
Red Jack and Mephistopheles
Went all their ways alone.
W.A.
MARY DURACK.


“Bo”: Old Jim Nolan had the reputa-
tion around Bluegrass of being tough in
business matters as well as being a sound
farmer, and when his daughter Millie be-
came engaged to young Joe Grossan he
let no opportunity go by of instilling
into his future son-in-law the advantages
of safeguarding oneself in every possible
way in any business deal, whatever its
nature. Joe absorbed the precepts avidly,
but his first effort rocked even the old
man back on his heels when he saw
it in the Bluegrass “Bugle’s” Public
Notices: —-
Tenders are invited from clergymen of
any denomination for the performance of
the marriage ceremony, to take place on
Saturday the 19th ultimo, between Joseph
Grossan and Millie Nolan. Successful
tenderer must be prepared to provide his
own transport to the place where the cere-
mony will be held, to wit, the residence of
James Nolan, farmer, of The Pines, Blue-
grass. Tenders must be in the hands of the
undersigned not later than the 10th ult.
(Signed) JOSEPH GROSSAN.
N.B. The lowest or any tender not neces-
sarily accepted.
* * :fc sfc
“Heresone”: The spread of settlement,
whilst almost exterminating many native
animals, has boosted bird life. In Queens-
land’s dry west the provision of water
has helped a lot, but there are other influ-
ences at work. On the Darling Downs,
for example, the forests are gradually
disappearing to make room for culti-
vation, and the plain-dwelling and seed-
eating birds have noted the fact. The
pugnacious magpies and magpie larks
have stood the change well. But from
being solitary birds they have learnt to
band together in winter in flocks of 50
or more to follow the plough, and they
come at the first roar of the tractor on a
frosty morning. The shyer tree-dwellers
—woodpeckers, thornbills and the like —-
are getting scarcer. But others are taking
their places, generally driven by drought
“Great news! The brig's going to let us do a suicide attack ?”
in their former homes further west,
Thirty years ago the quarrions came,
liked the place and stayed ; now they
swarm everywhere. Ten years later it
was the crested pigeons. Since then the
budgereegahs, after several tentative ad-
vances, have become firmly established
there. The black-shouldered kite is an-
other newcomer. Generally speaking, the
new arrivals are less useful to man than
the ones they have supplanted; but the
farmer who leaves a few thick belts of
trees on his block finds that the inhabi-
tants pay their board handsomely in the
control of insect pests.
“Plane Creek”: Most of the feathered
inhabitants of my N.Q. farm hunt and
sing before sunrise on a sweltering day.
Around midday they perch above the
smelly, stagnant pools in the shady gully.
But while the treeless land roasts under
the blazing sun the butcherbirds peer
from the ringbarked bloodwoods into the
heat-haze over the fallow, and no un-
wary grasshopper or butterfly escapes
them. Between dives they maintain a
snatchy song from which all appealing
notes are omitted. Strangely, when the
air is cool not a chirp is heard from
them.
* •!: a #
“A.G.S.”: We’d just finished tea at
the woolscour on a Bogan (N.S.W.)
station when a swaggie drew up. He
heaved Matilda on a heap of bindieycs
negr the cook’s galley and said “Give us
a reed, boss. Haven’t been able to get a
job between Dandaloo and here.” “Why
don’t you fellows stick to your money
instead of spending it at the first pub you
strike?” retorted the boss. “I don’t
booze my money,” the' swaggie said.
“I’ve got no cash because of hard luck.
Me and me mate took a contract burning
charcoal for the blacksmith at Peak
Hill. We dug pits, placed the logs in
them, covered them up and, thfough a
flue, set ’em alight. We reckoned three
weeks would do the trick, but when we
opened her up we found all our work
gone for nothin’,” “What wept wrong?”
asked the boss. “They’d all turned into
clinkers!” said the swaggie with a sob
in his voice,
■V * * *
“Zake”: “The Poorhouse Puddin’ ” the
swaggie was known as, being long and
incredibly thin. One day he was sit-
ting on his swag along the roadside
when the constable from Tinker’s Creek
came by on his bike. “Seen a tall cove
around wearin’ a ginger mo, and with a
limp?” he asked. “Poorhouse” looked up
wearily. “I did see a bloke back towards
Joggalong a bit like that. He was pretty
tall, about my build, but not quite so
robust! ”
“F.A.N.”: Getting away from the usual
records put up by mulga inhabitants, I
nominate the licensee of the Royal Hotel
at Mendooran (N.S.W.), with an unbroken
run of 55 years—without a black mark.
For 54 years he has been our racing-
club treasurer. In his backyard stands
an apricot tree which has a circumfer-
ence of 65 inches at 4ft. from the ground.
It has for most of its 65 years of growth
fed (in season) all the possums and small
boys of the town.
“Guinare”; The massacre at Daly
River copper mine (B. 25/10/’44)
occurred on September 3, 1883. The
party consisted of Roberts, Noltenius,
Landers and Schollert. Roberts, who sub-
sequently recovered, was felled by a blow
from a hammer wielded by a “friendly”
blackboy; Noltenius was speared while
making a bolt to the hut for shelter ;
Landers, who was working with Roberts,
was speared at the same time that Roberts
was felled. Schollert was acting as cook.
and was speared in the hut whilst attend-
ing to his duties. Landers died soon after
the spear-head was extracted by Roberts,
who also had to attend Noltenius. In that
case, unfortunately, the spear broke and
the point was left in Noltenius’s body ;
he died at a billabong, afterwards named
after him, on the road in from the Daly,
where he had to be left while Roberts
went on to the old Daly River cattle
station for help. Roberts reached the
station and was attended to by the man-*
ager, Saxe, who immediately set out
to aid Noltenius, but it was too late. The
crime aroused the wrath of all residents
and fellow-miners, who set out in several
parties and severely punished the natives,
a few of whom escaped by seeking
shelter in the waters of the billabongs.
Incidentally, the pack horse carrying the
7500 z. of gold was recovered.
“ That's what We get for Writin' to Man-power for a shearer .”
“K.A.”: A neighbor has encouraged
nature-lovers amongst his employees by
installing in the dining-hall a large glass
case in which are kept specimens or
curios of natural life found on the
farm and in the bush. Some of them
include large and beautifully-colored
butterflies, heart-shaped stones, aboriginal
weapons, pieces of mud imprinted with
animal footprints, curious insects, ant-
homes, etc. The real fun begins when
the mob gather round and start betting
on something. It’s wonderful how a set-
up like this quietens the know-alls. I
wish “The 0.D.” were here.
* * * *
“A.F.C.”: I struck Hori along the bush
road, cranking vigorously at his ancient
T model. I asked if I could help. “No,” he
replied, nodding towards Lizzie. “He go,
he know me, he go all right.” I waited
while he turned over a totally unrespon-
sive engine. With doubts as to whether
“he” would go, I continued on into
town, returning two hours later. The
Maori was still cranking away, but with
noticeably less vigor. Again I offered
help, but, wiping the perspiration out of
his eyes with the back of his hand, Hori
looked up and repeated wearily “No, he
go, he know me, he go all right.” His
tone lacked conviction. I then noticed
that his feet were bare. “Tod hot with
your boots on?” I asked. Hori came
up close, lowering his voice almost to a
whisper, at the same time looking re-
proachfully at Lizzie. “No,” he said ; “I
taken off te boots else 1 kick him in
te guts.”
°** * *
“Plane Creek”: The Dexiidae fly, on
which great hopes were pinned that it
would give the k.o. to the cane beetle, is
sitting in its corner, groggy and game,
with sugarcane’s worst pest flexing its
muscles still chockful of fight. Trouble
is that the parasite fly can’t work unless
soil and climatic conditions are just right,
Because the canefields of N.Q. are
mostly of clay and “gluepot” soil, which
is either too wet and cold or too hot and
dry, the fly mostly falls down on its job
of locating the hosts.
* * * *
“ B. A. Ker”: I once released a silver-
grey from a snare, nursed it back to health
and was rewarded with the most fasci-
nating piece of nature study I ever hope
to see. Twelve weeks after its capture
the possum, which had become incredibly
tame, grew suddenly mopy, and spent
one afternoon drooping in the corner of
the big aviary instead of the box set up
in the branches. It was then I thought
I detected the slightly-opened pouch,
Days passed before the fact was estab-
lished—by a tantalising instinct the
mother always kept that portion of her-
self averted from view ; then I saw
the minute “hand” on the lip of the
pouch. (Incidentally, the mouth of the
pouch.runs down the body, not across, as
artists have drawn it.) For the next three
weeks I glimpsed no more than a sugges-
tion of head or leg. Then one day the
dog frightened the mother into spring-
ing up into the branches. The movement
dislodged the baby ; for about 20 seconds
it hung completely out of the pouch,
obviously only attached by the mouth to
the nipple. A hairless, ugly little thing,
smaller than a blind kitten, it yet had
the instinct to kick upwards, hook its
hind toes in the pouch-mouth and wriggle
back to safety. On the first day of
spring Joey, now a thin but furry little
creature with the over-big ears and beau-
tiful large eyes of a miniature fawn, was
allowed to spend a short time in the
sleeping-box alongside mother. From
then on every day the picture became
more fascinating. No cat washed her
kitten more frequently or thoroughly,
and no kitten ever crawled over and tor-
mented a sleeping mother so amusingly,
But Mum was never too fast asleep to
sneak out a “hand,” place it on the over-
venturesome youngster’s head and firmly
push him down to safety. At any sudden
noise the baby was swallowed up in the
pouch in a flash, while the mother
adopted a kangaroo-like stance of aggres-
sive defence. Even when grown to the
size of a guineapig Joey still had the
audacity to climb from the maternal
back, during progress from branch to
bough, slip under and into the pouch,
making it bulge like a holiday suitcase
and with the overlap still outside. When
it became utterly impossible for the
young possum to get into the pouch
Nature caused the nipple to grow long
enough to project through the now nar-
rowing pouch-mouth,
* * * *
“Patchewollock”: The drought in the
Victorian Mallee brought a new thing
to Lake Hmdmarsh, above Rainbow,.
when strong winds blew the water away
from one side of the lake and left thou-
sands of the tasty Wimmera perch
stranded. People turned up and filled
wheat bags with them—which was some-
thing, seeing there was no wheat for the
ba gs. Inhabitants of the mid-Darhng
have frequently seen the same pheno-
menon on the Menindie lakes, but Hind-
marsh is usually full of clear water.
* * * *
“Solitude”: Seventyfiver had sold an
old saddle, and before giving delivery
was telling me of the transaction,
“Trouble is,” he said, “I f’rgot I had
them good stirrup-irons o’ mine on that
saddle. H’m, I’m a bit sorry t’ see them
irons go.” His eyes narrowed shrewdly.
“Hey,” he whispered, “think I c’d get
hold of another pair ’n’ switch ’em/”
He put in all next day riding round the
district making discreet and vain inquiries
about stirrup-irons, and the following
morning caught the mail at the crossing
and travelled down to town to continue
the search. After spending half a day
tramping the streets and another shouting
for a bloke who knew everybody’s busi-
ness, he arrived home with the doubtful
prospect of a purchase later in the week,
. The second trip was more successful. He
came back £4 10s. out of pocket through
his investigations, but armed with a pair
of irons that looked to me far better
than those already on the saddle. The
switch was made ; then the old chap got
to work with a splash of tar, some grease
and dirt and finally made a job of taking
; the shine from the too-prominent irons,
Unsaddling the following evening, I
heard his tuneless whistle approaching the
yards, and waited to hear the result. “Col-
lected me five quid,” he grinned trium-
phantly, as he swung off. “Told y’ I’d
get away with it. Gripes, though”—a
frown crossed his ugly mug—“l hope old
Sandy never finds out how I swindled
him over them stirrups.”
A STREET IN DARWIN.
Fixed in the faithful mind, a dreary street
Of silent houses, empty under sun
And moon and stars; where murder had been
done
In vanished times; where crept on sandalled feet
The yellow men to serve their bearded gods
With opium and myrrh. A street of fate.
Where noisy gamblers under smoking lamps
Scattered their gleaming hoard, and from the
camps
Lean soldiers came, to toss for careless odds ,
The well-thumbed coin. Where, passing by a
gate
With tender blooms of poinciana wreathed,
A voice as soft as if the night had breathed
Entered the ravished ear: a lover’s sigh
Of rich content from some dark casement borne;
Where, fixed in timeless sight, a shade withdrawn
Revealed a dark and Oriental eye,
And blue-black hair and dainty slippered feet
And lips that smiled a greeting to the moon.
Here once had slept, from midnight' until noon,
A hero of a hundred tales, whose fleet
Lay anchored in the bay; and in this street
The colored crews from black and rotting ships
Rich with the pearly treasures of the deep,
Or ocean liners, or canoes that creep
Down inland rivers, lured by eyes and lips
And soft, brown throats and smells from
heathen dives,
Bartered their gold for dross. What voices now
Disturb the peaceful air? What children bow
With Eastern courtesy? and what old wives
From broken windows lean? The joss-house
gone
And all the roofs, a yellow sunlight falls
From burning skies, and melts the crumbling
walls;
And down the street no feet of humans tread.
The moonlight glitters on the ghostly dead,
And loneliness' is monarch everywhere.
R.A.A.F.
K. COLLOPY.


Australian, Mercantile, Land & Finance
Company, Limited
(INCORPORATED IN ENGLAND IN 1863)
WOOL, FAT STOCK, STORE AND STUD STOCK.
PRODUCE AND PROPERTY SALESMEN
General Manager for Australia: R. SINCLAIR SMITH.
ADVANCES MADE ON GRAZING PROPERTIES, ON STOCK, AND ON
CONSIGNMENTS OF WOOL, SKINS, HIDES, TALLOW, ETC.
LICENSED AUCTIONEERS, STOCK AND STATION AGENTS.
SYDNEY OFFICE; A. M. MURDOCH, Manager.
ALSO AT MELBOURNE, BRISBANE, NEWCASTLE, WAGGA, > HENTY, HAY, MOREE,
TOWNSVILLE, CHARLBVILLE, BUENOS AIRES, LONDON.
GENERAL AGENTS IN NEW SOUTH WALES FOR NORTHERN ASSURANCE CO., LTD.
For Mineral Mixtures and Licks for
Dairy Stock
Oil
:.Goll
. Sterilised
To Remedy
Phosphorus Deficiency
in Pastures and Fodders
BONE FLOUR
Tri-cal-os Bone Flour is purely a bone product without admixture
of any other substance. > It contains a guaranteed minimum of
32.5 per cent, phosphoric acid and 40 per cent. lime.
- All particulars from :
DAVIS GELATINE, G.P.O. BOX 35835, SYDNEY.
G.P.O. Boxes —4058 Melbourne, 758 K Brisbane, 712 P Adelaide, 588 Perth.
For Sale.
CAROB BEAN SEED, 1/-per doz, 5/- psr 100.
Apply K. BROWN, “Raino,” Tingha, N.S.W.
CERTAIN DEATH
ẅ
CYanogaS
‘IT’S THE GAS THAT KILLS THEM’
The safest, surest, and most economical solution of the rabbit
menace.
The only way to carry the maximum number of sheep is to clear
out all the rabbits.
w
Obtainable from
all Storekeepers
throughout Australia.
BUZACOTT-WOLSELEY PTY..LTD.,
7-11 MARKET STREET, SYDNEY.
JAMES MURPHY BURSARIES
AGRICULTURAL STUDENTS
for
(a) THE UNIVERSITY OF SYDNEY: aml
Providing all fees payable to the University of Sydney, the cost of residence at St; John s Co ege an
an .allowance of up to £lO per annum, payable at the discretion of the Trustees.
or
(b) HAWKESBURY AGRICULTURAL COLLEGE:
Providing all fees and textbooks not exceeding £5O per annum. , , j ames
Applications are invited for the above Bursaries, made available under the Will or
Murphy, of Como. , . gons to
Applicants must be the sons of Catholic parents whose means are insufficient to enatue TTniver sity of
study Agricultural Science and must satisfy the requirements for Matriculation at
Sydney, or of entrance to the Hawkesbury Agricultural College, as the case may oe. 1945>
Forms of application (which must be returned duly completed not later th 3n the 12th
in the case of Bursaries tenable at the Hawkesbury Agricultural College and not later
February, 1945, in the case of those tenable at the University of Sydney), and further particuia
be obtained from:—
PERPETUAL TRUSTEE COMPANY (LIMITED),
33-39 HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY.
GET THE BEST FROM YOUR CLIP. READ “WOOL-CLASSING AND
SHED MANAGEMENT.” 3s, 6d., POST FREE, “BULLETIN OFHCL,
THE MAN ON
THE LAND
Breeding a Comeback
“Sheepo”: As a dual-purpose sheep the
comeback is hard to beat. Judicious
culling and selective mating will permit
©f a comeback flock breeding true to
type, but uniformity depends upon ex-
tensive culling. The accepted and general
spinning capacity of the typical come-
back wool is a 56’s-58’s, but I’ve seen
some Tasmanian comeback wool with a
staple length of up to that would
have spun as high as 70’s.
Results have proved Lincoln blood to
be the most successful. In all matings
pure-bred rams must be used. To breed
a comeback by the short way the first
mating will be a Lincoln ram (40’s) and
a merino ewe (60’s), the resultant
progeny being the half-bred (50’s). By
mating a merino ram (60’s) with a half-
bred ewe (50’s) a strong comeback (56’s)
will result. Quite obviously, the short way
of breeding will find the wool of many
of the comebacks ranging from 54V to
58V
Better results come from the long way.
-By mating a Lincoln ram (40’s) with a
merino ewe (fiO’s), the half-bred ewe
progeny (50’s) will be mated with a
Lincoln ram (40’s), the progeny being a
three-quarter-bred (44V46’s). For the
third mating use a merino ram (60’s) and
a three-quarter-bred ewe (44V46’s), the
resultant progeny being a quarter-bred
merino (54’s-56’s). The fourth mating
will ba a merino ram (60’s) and a quarter-
bred merino ewe (54V56’s), the result a
fine comeback (58’s-60’s).
Once a comeback flock has been ob-
tained type can be more or less main-
tained by systematic culling and mating,
but, as with all else in the sheep world,
uniformity cannot be expected without
rigorous culling of the ewes. The breeder
must aim for a certain standard and use
every endeavor to maintain it without
sacrificing type.
Save Our Soil.
“Ben C.”; N.S.W. Government has
appointed an agricultural officer, Len
Judd, to run its farm-mechanisation
scheme. Scheme and appointment are
both good, but this is where the Com-
monwealth Soil Conservation authority
should step in and insist that before trac-
tors and ploughs begin thundering about
the country, tearing up and pulverising
the soil, a proper survey be made and
adequate erosion - prevention measures
taken.
Mechanisation will come into our
farming with a rush after the war, and
as sure as God made little apples the
already appalling soil loss will be speeded
up. The C.S.C. authority, by exercising
its rule from a continental point of view,
could lay down the law to anybody who
set out, either deliberately or through
ignorance, to destroy the soil. Thus the
country could bring its farming on to a
solid basis and landholders be forced to
realise that the land they hold is, really
in trusteeship for succeeding generations.
What Commonwealth Soil Conserva-
tion authority? It doesn’t exist, of
course ; and until it does farm mechanisa-
tion and other land schemes are loaded
with dynamite.
“E. 2”: A comprehensive national sur-
vey is the first essential to formulating
a national plan for control and recovery.
This should be done by the Federal Gov-
ernment and work begun on badly-
affected areas at once. Scope of opera-
tions could be increased as more man-
power becomes available ; but it’s vital
to get the job under way so that no time
is lost.
Legislation to compel landholders to
devote portion of the land to trees is
needed ; methods of cultivation call for
careful overhaul, and suitable wind-
breaks should be erected under proper
direction where necessary. That the cost
of full measures of erosion control is
beyond most farmers is evident, and
many would find it more convenient to
leave the land than face the amount of
unproductive toil indicated. The cost will
of necessity be borne by taxpayers.
Establishment of nurseries for supply-
ing suitable trees free of cost to land-
holders would pay rich dividends. The
larger structural works should be erected
by Government-paid workmen and sub-
sidies granted for those put up by prop-
erty-holders. Farmers, well informed of
the dangers of ultimate soil sterility, can
be relied upon to pull their weight. But
there’s no time to lose.
“Outback”: Thousands of acres of
productive land also flew over Brisbane
on 16/10/’44 (B. 25/10/’44) and finished
up in the Pacific Ocean. It reminded
many of the comment in the final report
of the Royal Commission on fruit and
vegetables: “That erosion of all types is
occurring in Queensland is very evident,
and the ‘Dust Bowl’ disasters of the
U.S.A. ‘can happen here.’ ”
The commission suggested the adop-
tion in Queensland of the English Act
of 1923 dealing with compensation to
good tenants and claims for compensation
against bad tenants. The Queensland Act
provides for compensation to a tenant by
his landlord if the tennant leaves the land
in an improved condition. In England
the Act has been extended to compen-
sate a tenant for good husbandry; it
also allows the landlord to claim compen-
sation for deterioration of the land
through bad husbandry. This principle,
said the commission, could be extended
to prevent, by injunction or forfeiture
and compensation, damage done to Crown
lands, both agricultural and pastoral, by
Crown tenants who “flogged” the land by
over-production and other acts of bad
husbandry.
Freeholders, also, should be prevented
by legislation from destroying the soil.
The freeholder or leaseholder is a trustee
of the lands for the whole community,
and legislative power should be given to
an authority to enforce methods of cul-
tivation which would minimise erosion
and ensure the retention and return of
humus.
“S.C.”: The Ibis Society’s contests for
thesis, essays and posters on soil erosion
have been decided as follow: Best thesis,
Private Robert D. Walshe, A.1.F.; best
essay, Major Noel Griffith, A.1.F.; best
poster, Private K. C. Grey, A.1.F., second
prize, Cpl. L. Davancorn, A.I.F. Boy
Scouts’ prize, Lone Ranger Lewis Morell,
Hay (N.S.W.). ’
Growing Wheat.
“Bugaldie”: Don’t wait for rain to
burn your stubble; get as much feed
out of it as possible by stocking it heavily,
and about the beginning of January put
a match to it. The latest idea is
burn it but plough it in. But outjiere in
nor’-west N.S.W. a really good burn
rarely fails to produce a good crop next
season, as it kills all noxious weeds and
insects, destroys most of the black oats
that may be there and generally sweetens
the ground. Wait for a good fall of
rain before working the ground ; there’s
no point in working it dry, more particu-
larly stubble ground ; and, of course, it
would be quite impossible to work new
ground.
It is always advisable to work your
ground again before sowing—on new
ground it is necessary—-but unless Mexi-
can Poppy takes possession, as it often
does on the lighter soil, it is only waste
of time , and money to do it, unless the
working follows rain.
Select a true-to-type seed of an ap-
proved variety—Waratah, Bencubbin,
Bungulla, Gular, Eureka are all suitable ;
long-season wheats, such as Ford, are
not in favor; there are some very good
new wheats. No fertiliser is necessary in
our country. Sow Gular last; you’ll find
it ripens first.
Wait for rain before sowing on the
heavier soils even till the middle of June.
May is the ideal month, but should it
rain in mid-April it would be a pity to
lose the opportunity; and should the
crop make rapid growth eat it back
before it becomes gross, otherwise there’s
a danger of its being affected by frost
later on.
The aim should be to get over the
ground in the least possible time after
rain. Two men, working the average
mechanised plant under average condi-
tions, can handle no more than 450 acres
efficiently.
Calcium and Salt.
“Myrrhee”; Calcium phosphate is a
bone-builder, invaluable to growing
stock, breeding and milking animals. One
way of supplying it is through pastures
liberally top-dressed with super. In most
concentrates and grain there is a calcium
deficiency which can be made good by
feeding 31b. of a mixture of four parts
of lime to one part of salt to every 1001 b.
of grain or concentrate fed to horses,
cattle, sheep and pigs. For poultry lime
is supplied in the shellgrit.
Lick mixtures can be made this way:
For horses and cattle where pastures
have been top-dressed, and for sheen
under all conditions, common salt only
or common salt 50 to 80 p.c., balance
lime. For horses and cattle where top-
dressmg is not practised, common salt
50 to 80 p.c., lime 10 to 25 p.c., bone-
meal or di-calcic phosphate 10 to 25 p.c.
New Tomato Varieties.
“P.A.”: Vetemold is proving itself as
a tomato with a future for cool country
and glass-house use.' It is an excellent
cropper, and has produced and ripened
its fruits in an unheated glass-house at
Robertson (N.S.W.) with temperatures as
low as 24deg. F. For outdoor summer
growth on the Tableland, where quick-
ness to set clusters and ripen fruit is an
asset, Vetemold answers all demands.
For home garden use, Devlin’s Choice
is now accepted as a topnotch tomato.
Most Australians prefer the solid-flesh
type, and Devlin’s Choice is meeting that
requirement, with shapeliness, smoothness
and size as added virtues.
Another comparative newcomer is Prit-
chard, a dual-purpose tomato. Keep it
in mind for your second sowing. A
successor to Potentate is found in Pros-
perity for those who like the cluster type
—but Prosperity has bigger fruits and its
crop weighs it down.
K Hints for the Farm.
“Mackay”: For a brand that will stay-
eligible for the greater part of the fleece's
growth, mix together 30 parts wool fat,
29 parts resin, three part karnauba wax,
18 parts kieselguhr and six parts ignited
iron oxide ; add sufficient Emco spirits
to bring it to the right consistency. This
mixture scours out without injury to the
wool and without affecting the scour
liquor.
“L.C.”: Nitrogen excepted, wood ashes
contain all the ingredients of a complete
manure, supply good plant food, im-
prove the quality of stiff clay lands and
bind light, sandy soils. Form a compost
heap of alternate layers of peat, peaty
loam or vegetable refuse and wood ashes
or dig a hole and fill with layers in the
same way. Moisten with urine or slop
water and allow to ferment for some
months. Addition of stable manure and
farm refuse puts to use fertilising
materials that are otherwise thrown
away. Ashes can be used solus as top-
dressing.
“L.C.”: For small holes in a dish
cement wash will serve. Dissolve one
part of salt in as little water as possible
and mix ip six parts of cement. Plug
holes and seams. Add more water to
make the mixture the consistency of
thick cream and paint over both sides of
the hole.
“Hux”: A common fault is to place
the strut too near the top of the strainer
post, when the strain goes on it levers
the post out of he ground. Two long
struts —one either side of the wires—is
little better, and adds to cost. Use a
single strut only, but well down the post.
The longer the strut the better the job.
“C.S.”: Sydney R.A.S, is staging a
show of veges., fruit and flowers in Syd-
ney Town Hall on December 7-9, and
there is a pretty big schedule. Displays
of machinery, tools, drying, canning, etc.,
will be made. Prize money runs into
£3OO.


UNCABLED ADDITIONS
After Battle.
(As witnessed and summed up by N.Y.
“World-Telegram” war correspondent in Europe
Ernie Pyle.)
When you’re wandering around our
front lines you can always tell how
recently the battle has swept on ahead of
you.
You can sense it from the little things
even more than the big things: .
From the scattered green leaves and
the fresh branches of trees still lying in
the middle of the road.
From the wisps and coils of telephone
wire, hanging brokenly from high poles
and entwining across the roads.
From the grey, powder-burned rims of
the shell craters in the gravel roads, their
edges not yet smoothed by the pounding
of military traffic.
From the little pools of blood on the
roadside, blood that has only began to
congeal and turn black, and the punc-
tured steel helmets lying near by.
From the square blocks of building
stone still scattered in the village streets,
and from the sharp-edged rocks in the
roads, still uncrushed by traffic.
From the burned-out tanks and broken
carts still unremoved from the road.
From the cows in the fields, lying gro-
tesquely with their feet to the sky, so
newly dead they have not yet begun to
bloat or smell.
From the scattered heaps of personal
debris around a gun. I don’t know why
it is, but the Germans always seem to
take off their coats before they flee or die.
From all these things you can tell that
the battle has been recent —from these
and from the men dead so recently that
they seem to be merely asleep.
And also from the inhuman quiet.
Usually battles are noisy for miles
around. But in this recent fast warfare
a battle sometimes leaves a complete
vacuum behind it.
There is nothing left behind but the
remains—the lifeless debris, the sunshine
and the flowers, and utter silence.
The Real German Menace.
(From an article by former U.S. Under
Secretary of State Sumner Welles.)
The marshals and the generals of thv,
Wehrmacht who sought to remove Hitler
from the scene —the very generals who
are now urging from Russia that the Ger-
man people rise up against him —are not
seeking his overthrow because of their
detestation of the abominations of his
Government or of the ruin which he has
brought to the rest of the world.
It was they themselves who throughout
11 years applauded the most criminal
excesses of Nazism. It was they them-
selves who conceived the plans for the
German domination of the world which
resulted in the second world war.
It was they themselves who selected
Hitler as the tool by which they thought
those plans could be best realised. Hitler
has failed.
The sole reason why they are today
turning against him is because of his
colossal failure. They seek now to take
back into their own hands the control of
German destinies. They are trying to
salvage what they may in the day of
defeat. They hope, if they destroy
Nazism, to secure treatment comparable
to that accorded Marshal Badoglio and
other leaders in the Italian Army.
Hitlerism is only the front. It is Ger-
man militarism itself which is, and which
will long remain, the real menace.
Subs. v. Japs.
(From the “Atlantic Monthly.")
The astonishing success of Allied sub-
marines against Japanese shipping is one
of the deciding factors of the war; it is
also having a great effect on Japan s
present and post-war economy. We have
been sinking irreplaceable tonnage and
irreplaceable materials in almost every
part of Japan’s waters, while our own
extended supply lines have been virtually
free from attack. Here is one aspect of
the war in which Japan’s technological
inferiority is clearly visible.
Both submarine and anti-submarine
warfare are highly complex technical
operations. We have shown ourselves the
masters of one in the Pacific and of the
other in the Atlantic. Guile, daring and
seamanship still play their part, but
physics—radar, asdic and the phenomenal
devices of both offensive and defensive
undersea warfare that have been de-
veloped, and about which we have been
told so little —have given us a new dimen-
sion in which to operate.
Japan has been unable to counter our
submarine fleet without the scientific re-
sources that would enable her to evolve,
produce and man efficiently the detection
instruments we have found so valuable.
Modern war depends greatly on the quick
production in great quantity of complex
instruments. This demands uniformity
of materials for mass machining and
tools, and workmen capable of high'
precision operations. These require a
lechnicological maturity Japan does not
possess—a fatal weakness in days when
a faulty vacuum tube may mean a lost
ship.
We have conquered the menace of the
submarine by a combination of physics
and the massive fleet of convoy and patrol
craft, the destroyer escort and carrier
escort team, and the long-range patrol
’plane. Japan cannot build the great fleet
of convoy craft that her extended net-
work of waterways requires.
Meanwhile Japan is losing ships at a
rate far beyond her replacement capa-
city, This loss of tonnage is not only a
grave impairment of her military poten-
tial ; it does permanent damage to one
•of her major peace-time resources. The
highly developed Japanese merchant
marine was a source of Japanese national
pride and national wealth. In 1939
Japan’s merchant fleet of almost six mil-
lion tons was the third-largest in the
world, much of it new, fast tonnage that
brought large commercial returns.
Blast.
(From an article by a N.Y. “Herald Tribune”
London correspondent.)
The people of “southern England, in-
cluding London” (as the target area of
the flying bomb has been called), auto-
matically move away from windows
when they hear the sputter of a flying
bomb, just as they reach for an umbrella
when they leave home on a cloudy day.
Glass splinters from windows panes have
been driven inch deep in hard mahogany
dining room tables by blast. Wallpaper,
curiously, has been ripped off walls by
blast. Several weeks ago a Canadian sol-
dier and his girl were strolling together in
a square. Blast stripped them both of
their clothing but left them uninjured.
A cockney policeman was riding home
from his beat on his bicycle the other
day soon after the sirens had sounded.
“I couldn’t hear any aircraft,” he said
later, “and I was absorbed in watching
a big, noisy convoy of military vehicles
going in the other direction. Suddenly,
without any warning, I found myself
shooting forward like a human cannon
ball. I swear I went past a ’bus at fifty
miles an hour. When I came to my
senses there I was, still pedalling along
on the old bike as steadily as you please.
That was a doodle-bug, and I hadn’t
even heard it.”
Blast recently knocked a house down.
Kitchen walls and ceiling fell in. Glass
doors of a cupboard were smashed,
along with all the crockery inside. But
four eggs, lying in a glass bowl in the
cupboard, survived. Nor were the eggs
or the bowl cracked.
During the November, 1940, blitz,
when the Cafe de Paris was hit, men
were killed while dancing, their women
partners escaping, and vice-versa. Blast
has tied knots in window curtains. Doors
have been wrenched off shelters, but
candles burning inside the shelters were
not even blown out. Blast sometimes
kills people without leaving any sign of
visible injury. There is the example of
the man who was found in a bombed
pub still standing at the counter, his
glass of beer raised in his right hand, his
left hand down on a shilling on the coun-
ter. The man was dead. He had no ex-
ternal injuries. He was buried in debris
to the waist, which kept him erect.
The two reactions of the explosion,
the quick, hard blast and the slightly
lower, longer-lasting suction, sometimes
come so closely together that a window
which is blasted inward is sucked out
into the street by vacuum. Generally
speaking, windows within a hundred
yards of an exploding flying bomb will
break inward. Outside the 100-yard
radius the glass will generally be pulled
out into the street.
All kinds of curious things happen.
Glass that the first blast does not shatter
is frequently broken by the more pro-
longed pressure of the vacuum. Sometimes
blasts or the ensuing vacuum will rico-
chet in a zig-zag up a narrow street,
leaving alternate patches of whole and
broken glass.
With experiences like these taking
place around them as part of their every-
day life, the British people quite natur-
ally have learned something about blast.
They have learned that ordinarily glass
from windows blows in at right angles
to the face of the window. They have
learned that if they duck behind a stone
wall, even if it is only two feet high, or
behind a tree, they are generally safe
from blast. They have learned that it is
far safer to be horizontal than vertical
when a bomb is comijig your way.
New Guinea’s Future.
(Condensed from an article by London “Times”
special correspondent in New Guinea.)
Boys in Digger hats patrolling the val-
leys and spurs around Wau and Bulolo
have found outcrops of reef ore at their
feet, or panned out gold in the creeks in
which they took their mid-day swim. In
the forests through which they have
battled they have paused to glance at
great timber trees whose wealth was
scarcely tapped in peace-time. They have
seen the richness of the soil along the
coastal fringe and up the wide river val-
leys. Stories have spread among them —•
and have grown in the telling—of wealth
to be won, and they have not found New
Guinea the terrible place they had pic-
tured it.
The urge to adventure has done the
rest, and now many Australian lads want
to settle in the territory after the war, and
so do some of their American comrades.
One factor in this ambition is knowledge
of the rapid strides made in tropical
medicine and hygiene since the war
began. Malaria can be beaten in settled
areas where there is time to organise pre-
ventive measures, and other menaces to
health in New Guinea have been miti-
gated.
What is Australia going to do to de-
velop this fruitful possession? The
spacious days of sparse settlement have
gone for ever. Gone also is the time
when New Guinea began and ended with
its official colonies in district centres, its
leisurely life on great plantations, its one
or two roaring goldfield towns, and its
heroic Christian missionaries. Australia
cannot remain exposed to the charge of
having failed to develop the territory ;
economic necessity and all that the Atlan-
tic Charter implies will not permit that.
Moreover, events have underlined the
necessity of having New Guinea and the
islands of the Bismarck Archipelago
strongly garrisoned as outer bastions of
Australia’s defences.
Already some of the problems that will
beset the Australian Government are be-
ginning to obtrude themselves. Native
labor is a subject of lively controversy.
Mr. J. A. Beasley announced at the Inter-
national Labor Conference at Philadel-
phia that the Government proposed to
abolish the indenture system of native
labor in Australian territories at the first
opportunity. In the copra industry alone
tens of thousands of indentured natives
were formerly employed. Many others
were working as rubber tappers, and
strong coastal boys were used extensively
in the crews of island trading craft. With
the abolition of indenture most of this
labor may not be available.
Can the natives develop the whole of
their birthright without outside help? The
most benevolently disposed toward them
doubt it. Although the Australian-con-
trolled area contains over 1,000,000
natives, the provision of able-bodied labor
has been a constant problem even during
the years of limited development. Large-
scale economic expansion of these terri-
tories is inevitable. The professed aims of
the United Nations imply the develop-
ment of rich virgin lands such as those
found in parts of coastal New Guinea.
The problem is how to develop them with
justice, first, to natives themselves,
secondly, to those whites who have staked
their fortunes and spent their best years
pioneering the territory, and, thirdly, to
those who will be expected to share in
the achievement.
Paradoxically, the war has made the
swift expansion practicable. Today New
Guinea possesses magnificent tarred
roads capable of carrying any traffic.
Bridges span many of its fast-flowing
streams, and clusters of well-appointed
airfields lie in the wake of the advancing
Allied armies. Some of these already
await civilian employment.
Districts that might not otherwise have
known access to roads for generations
are suddenly blessed with high-speed
highways. A classic example is Wau, the
town that flourished for years in the
golden valley of Bulolo with no other link
with the outside world than the commer-
cial air liner. The great Bulolo goldfield
must soon revive ; so must other gold-
fields. The search for oil, on which vari-
ous syndicates had spent well over
£1,000,000 before the Japanese came, will
surely be renewed. The island will have
a stronger tourist appeal. It has an out-
standing scenic charm, to which must
now be added the sentimental attachment
of the sites of historic engagements and
the graves of Allied fighting men.
However New Guinea is developed, it
will call for what every pioneering effort
in human history has demanded —hard
work and perhaps years of disillusion-
ment and discouragement. But the spark
of enthusiasm in the breasts of many
young Australians is a hopeful portent.
New Regional Leagues.
(From an article by N.Y. “World-Telegram”
Washington correspondent.)
It is believed the new peace league
will be based primarily on regional under-
standings on the lines of the Pan-
American Union, the Nine Power Treaty
and similar arrangements. We may see
something like “little leagues” function-
ing within a “big league” or world asso-
ciation. Should trouble break out be-
tween two countries the regional group
would try to stop it.. If it failed the world
organisation would intervene.
The United States, Canada and the 20
republics south of the Rio Grande
should be able to compose all quarrels
arising within the western world. They
would even prefer that the nations of
Europe and Asia stay out. But if the
trouble threatened to get out of hand
then they could give the signal for the
others to come in.
The United States, Canada, Great
Britain, Russia and China are all vitally
interested in keeping the peace of the
north Pacific. Similarly, America, Britain,
China, France, the Netherlands, Australia
and New Zealand are directly concerned
in the south Pacific ; Britain, Russia,
France and China in the Middle East;
Russia, Britain, France and others in
Europe ; and so on.
Some such regional grouping, in-
tegrated within a world organisation,
might avoid the one great weakness of
the old league. In that the United States
refused to commit itself, in advance, to
go to war on the other side of the globe,
while other countries, such as Britain, did
so commit themselves, but failed, when
the showdown came, to live up to their
pledges. This time an effort will be made
to demand no more than can be honestly
promised and to promise no more than
can actually be delivered.
In each region, of course, are small
nations which are sometimes more vitally
concerned in regional problems than the
major Powers. For the small nations it
may even be a matter of life or death.
They must have a voice in any proceed-
ings in which their interests are
involved. This was recognised unani-
mously at the Big Three session at Dum-
barton Oaks.
Plans for Germany.
(From “United States News.”)
It appears that there will be tough
going in the post-war, that the idea of a
“soft” peace, of a chance to come back,
will not be accepted at once.
Stalin all along has favored a ruthless
policy in treating Germany. Churchill
is being forced by British public opimon
to favor a “hard” peace. Roosevelt has
overruled the U.S. State Department and
the U.S. Army, and has thro
America’s weight behind the idea of d<
ing harshly with Germany.
Russia insists upon taking 4,000,000
German youths to Russia to work in
labor battalions. She wants vast repara-
tions in the form of goods. U.S., Britain
and France find their industries oppose
acceptance of big payments from Ger-
many in the form of goods. They want,
instead, to try to control German in-
dustry, to dictate to the management of
that industry, to tell German heavy in-
dustry what kind of goods it can make,
to run Germany for many years under
military occupation. The planners talk
about dividing Germany into zones, with
Russian ideas and rules to govern in one
region, British in another, U.S. in
another. And it is notable that U.S.
would get the region with least industry,
with the most mountains. The rich Ruhr
would go to the British, Silesia to Russia.
Don’t be too sure, however, that all of
these present plans will materialise, that
all of the things now talked about will
come about and have long-time meaning.
That’s because Germany in normal times
accounts for half of Europe’s trade. An
impoverished Germany, one on a sit-
down strike, would mean a depressed
Europe. It is still to be demonstrated
that European nations are willing to
forego tariffs, that they are ready to give
up exchange controls, to get away from
nationalism in trade any more than in
politics. A healthy Europe with a sick


THE EYES
OF AN
AEROPLANE
are its aircraft instruments
An aviator alone cannot cope with the prob-
lems of super-speed, high altitude, murk and
instability. Only instruments can give him
eyes that can see through zero visibility, or
an - accurate awareness of the presence of
unseen earth, or a knowledge of whether
course is true or the aircraft is on an even keel.
Twenty-two types of aircraft instruments
including directional gyros, gyro horizons
and altimeters, are manufactured by A.W.A.
Every instrument tells the pilot some vital
item of information.
When Victory is ours, the Fisk Radiola,
incorporating many wartime techniques, will
again be available for your radio enjoyment.
The FISK RADIOLA
AUSTRALIA’S FINEST BROADCAST RECEIVER
AMALGAMATED WIRELESS (A/SIA) LTD.
Australia's National Wireless Organisation
THE WOULD IS Ml OYSTER
You live to-day in the age of air-travel, where time and
space have new meanings. A modern, exciting age,
which after Victory will bring you undreamed of experi-
ences and opportunities . . . the advantage of personal
contact with distant customers and markets, the pleasure
and stimulation of other lands, other peoples. This free-
dom of activity by air-travel opens entirely new ideas of
the world . . . then to be indeed your oyster.
Australian National Airways is the world's greatest internal
air service—a foundation on which can be established
Australia's most vital link with the rest of the world.
1/0///
INVEST All YOU CAN IN VICTORY BONDS
m
USTR All AN
tional Airways
FIRST IN PEACE
PTV. LTD.
FIRST IN WAR
FIRST IN FUTURE
Germany in the middle isn’t a type of
set-up that can be brought about easily.
So the chances are that, if the economic
going gets rough in the post-war, ways
will be found to permit Germany to seek
prosperity again, that today’s attitudes
will undergo a rather sharp charige.
British Blockade Runners.
(As reported by London “Times” naval corre-
spondent.)
Blockade-running has generally referred
to Axis attempts to run the British block-
ade, but it is a game that two can play.
Holding practically full control of the
entrance to the Baltic, Germany has been
in a position to cut off British access by
sea to Sweden, and did so entirely up to
last autumn. But since Britain was in
need of certain Swedish products in
greater quantity than it was practicable
to transport by air, and also of a passen-
ger service of greater volume, early in
1943 it was decided to organise a ship-
ping line for those purposes. How that
was accomplished is now made public
for the first time.
The ships, of course, had to be mer-
chant vessels, so as not to compromise
Swedish neutrality, and they were oper-
ated by the Ellerman Wilson Line. They
were designed and built specially for their
task—being small, handy and incon-
spicuous, though very fast, with a large
cargo capacity for their size, and they
were armed for self-defence.
The crews, about 20 in each ship, were
specially selected and trained for their
arduous task. Blockade-running is a
young man’s job, and their average age
was about 25 ; none of the masters was
over 40. The service was started last
autumn as soon as the nights were long
enough for their purpose, and kept up
throughout the winter. It is not possible
yet to publish details of individual pas-
sages, for many ruses and subterfuges
were employed for the trip through the
Skagerrak to the little port of Lysekil,
on the Kattegat, sometimes so success-
fully that the passage was described after-
wards as “uneventful.”
It was careful planning and prepara-
tion, courage and good seamanship that
carried them through. All the officers
and men were made abundantly welcome
in the Swedish ports they visited, where
the inhabitants were well pleased to see
British merchant ships in their ports once
more.
Only one of this Ellerman Wilson fleet
failed to get through, the Master Stand-
fast, which was captured by German war-
ships. Her master, Captain C. R. W,
Holdsworth, was killed.
The other ships of the fleet were the
Gay Corsair, Captain R. Tanton, 0.8. E.;
the Gay Viking, Captain H. Whitfield,
0.8. E.; the Hopewell, Captain D. Stokes,
0.8. E.; and the Nonsuch, Captain H.
W. Jackson, 0.8. E. Most of the ships’
companies came from Hull, one of the
most ancient of British seaports.
Dragnet Digest.
(Condensed from various acknowledged
sources .)
Late this spring Franz von Papen, diplomat
of the Nazis, visited Madrid to put out peace
feelers. His mission failed, as did Ribben-
trop’s similar attempt to negotiate with Moscow
somewhat earlier. Neither could obtain a hear-
ing. These peace moves were clearly sponsored
by the Nazi hierarchy, on Hitler’s calculation
that a final effort to split the Allies might
prove successful. While in Spain Von Papen
is reported by French underground intelligence
agents to have uncovered evidence that the
German Junkers, operating through the older
Army officers, were also attempting to sue for
peace terms by way of the Vatican. — “Atlantic
Monthly:”
* * * *
“I think the men in the armed forces feel
there is an over-optimism toward the war and
an over-defeatism toward the peace on the
home front.” — Cmdr. Harold E. Stassen, U.S.
Navy in the Pacific.
* * * *
The Japanese strategists believed that the
United States would never recover from the
defeat at Pearl Harbor. They thought the
United States, being preoccupied with the Euro-
pean war, would never be able to build up a
Navy or air power sufficiently strong to go
across the Pacific to the Marianas. Unquestion-
ably the Japanese are now nonplussed when
they see the United States naval and air might
mobilised within a few hundred miles of their
homeland. This could not have been done with-
out the previous work of the Army, Navy and
Marine Corps in what was called island-hop-
ping.—Washington syndicate writer David Law-
rence.
* * * *
In the mean attempt to stir up trouble be-
tween the United States and Britain in some
sections of the American press, we are being
told that American casualties in northern France
have been greater than British and Canadian
casualties. This is true, but in Italy the cir-
cumstances were reversed. There the British
and Canadian armies had 84,462 casualties
from the landings till the fall of Rome, the
Americans 64,992 casualties. For the whole war
to the same date the British forces had 667,159
casualties, the Americans about 170,000. To
the British figures should be added 109,111
civilians hurt or killed, and to this number
must be added again the wounds deaths
of the robot campaign.— N.Y. “Times.”
* * * *
It is true that China’s Chiang Kai-shek is
losing some authority to independent war lords
in several Chinese provinces, but the United
States expects to restore Chiang’s authority
and leadership when military developments
permit.— “ United States News.”
* * * *
The United States must begin by telling the
British and Russians what it will not do: It
will not mix in power politics. It will not
guarantee frontiers unilaterally drawn. It will
not use force to make its own allies stay put
if partitioned against their will. But it will
co-operate with the rest of the world in the
enforcement of a peace which it believes to be
just. — William Philip Simms; N.Y. “World-
Telegram.”
* * * *
In one of his dispatches Walter Duranty,
British, many years correspondent in Moscow
for the New York “Times” and sympathetic
to the Soviet totalitarian system, described life
in that communist country as “very similar
to the antheap, where each member of the com-
munity has his allotted function, which he
performs, one might almost say, automatically;
that is, the process of regimentation has been
so thoroughly perfected as to make the idea
of individual independence repugnant, or, as
the bolshevists term it, anti-social.” — Quoted in
N.Y. “Journal-American.”
* * * *
The New York State section of the American
Legion recommends that war veterans be rep-
resented at the peace table “to the end that
American democracy in this republic be main-
tained and in order that the scourge of war be
not again inflicted upon us. None has a
better right to be heard in formulating the
terms of peace than the men and women who
actually fought.”— N.Y. “Daily Mirror.”
* * * *
A book describing the 27 “official” romances
of Mussolini during the last ten years of his
regime has been published and circulated by
the underground press in northern Italy. Among
the illustrations is a photostatic copy of a
letter that he wrote to one of these ladies,
the contents of which are so interesting that
she was able to sell the original for $21,000.
— “Collier’s.”
* * * *
If is likely to be difficult for the British
to find air and naval bases to accommodate
their forces in order to get in on the kill in the
Japanese war. U.S. naval and air and army
amphibious forces are likely to require most
available space for their operations.— “ United
States News.’*
* * * #
Pearl Harbor didn’t catch us quite so much
by surprise as laymen are inclined fo believe.
We lament the dead and the wounded, and
the delay and expense of raising sunken ships
and refitting them, but the Jap attack on Pearl
Harbor hastened rather than retarded , the
ultimate business of annihilating Japan. America
was catapulted into the war, and its factories
were plunged into a frenzy of production that
shortened the time required in any event to raise
our naval and air power to the peak necessary
to Jester the Pacific enemy. -Frank Gen a ?i,
in Collier s.
* * * *
Josef Stalin is creating a large, well-equipped
m F°i ai ? d t 0 s erve the Russian-
hacked Provisional Polish Government, which
suggests that the 1 olish Government-in-exile
m London may lack the force with which to
speak effectively when the time comes for
Poland to regain her independence.—' “United
States News.”
* * * *
Dr. Victor' Hoo, Chinese delegate to the
world security talks at Dumbarton Oaks, said
continuance of the Mikado in Japan should
be left to the Jap people. Dr. Hoo, Vice-
Minister for Foreign Affairs, Suggested in an
interview that some other emperor than Hiro-
hito might be chosen, however. Dr. Hoo said
he believed there may be mass suicides in
Japan when the battle approaches its end.—
U.S. United Press Washington correspondent.
* * * *
Since the war began the British have produced
some 1,000,000,000 maps dealing with the war
sectors of the world. More than 120,000,000
of these were for the Normandy invasion
London correspondent N.Y. “Herald Tribune:”
* * * *
With exports 28 per cent higher than during
the first seven months of last year, Canada has
now the largest per capita export trade in the
world. — Ottawa correspondent N.Y. “Times.”
* * * *
The fact that the next war could be started
by a small country intensifies the problem of
the peace-makers. The robot has suggested
hundreds of possibilities to bloodthirsty minds.
The decisive weapon in another war might be
made in a back room or a wood-shed. Military
men now know that traditional military defen-
ces are gone for ever. The great danger is that
the peace this time will be made, as it was be-
fore, by men whose concepts are shaped by
what happened in this war. But as soon as
the last gun is fired the techniques of this war
will be dead. The threats to future peace will
be everywhere, and preventive measures should
be much broader and more intensive than any
responsible statesman has yet suggested.—Ray-
mond Morley; “Wall-street Journal.”
* * * *
Australia’s industrialisation is likely to throw
a monkey wrench into fulfillment of the pledge
in Article VII in our Lend-Lease agreement,
which deals in part with tariffs. Like most
international statements of policy, it is pock-
marked with potential loopholes. No matter
how read, however, it does contain a definite
promise at least to sit down and try to work
out “reduction of tariffs and other , trade
barriers.” In line with this pledge, Australia
has already lowered its tariffs against the United
States to a middle level. But it is hard to see
how a country determined to develop its own
manufacturing can afford to drop or further
loosen its tariffs against a giant producer and
poor customer such as the United States.—
David G. Wittels; “Saturday Evening Post:”


HARTS
Circular Charts im all types ot
Recording Instruments for any class
of Machinery or Equipment
METER CHARTS a specialty.
Accuracy guaranteed. Get our quotation-
JACKSON & O’SULLIVAN
QUEEN STREET PTV. LTD. BRISBANE. O'LD.
STOPtcur Rupture
Worries/
Mark ® Location,
of YOUR RUPTURE
Try the new Roussel
Appliance Free. En-
ables you to do hard
work with comfort and
security. Definitely
holds, a condition ab-
solutely necessary for
Improvement or recov-
ery. Recommended by
Doctors. Satisfaction
guaranteed no matter
where you live. Send for details, self-
measurement form, testimonials and 14 days’
free trial offer. No obligation..
THE ROUSSEL APPLIANCE CO.,
(Dept. 27), 9 Martin Place, Sydney.
HELP
KIDNEYS PASS
3 LBS. A DAY
Doctors say your kidneys contain 15 Snilei
of tiny tuties or filters which help to purify
the blood and keep you healthy. Most people
pass about 3 pints a day or about 3 pounds
of waste.
An excess of adds or poisons In your blood
are the cause of frequent or scanty passages
With smarting and burning, nagging back-i
ache, rheumatic pains, leg pains, loss of pep
and energy, getting up nights, swollen feet
and ankles, pufflness under the eyes, head-*
aches and dizziness.
If kidneys don’t empty 3 pints a day and
feet rid of more than 3 pounds of waste mat-
ter, your body will take up these
causing serious trouble. Don’t wait! Ask
your chemist or store for . DOAN’S BACK-
ACHE KIDNEY PILLS . . . used successfully
the world over by millions of people. They
Eire quick relief and will help to flush out the
15 MILES of kidney tubes. Get DOAN’S
BACKACHE EIDNEX PILLS* gt jour chemist
pr store,
Personal and Missing Friends.
‘ MISSING BENEFICIARIES.' .
HIGGOTT s , MISS IDA FRANCES.—WiII the above-
named, who left New Zealand for Australia about the
year 1900, or any person having information as to
her marriage, death, or present whereabouts, please
communicate with THE DISTRICT PUBLIC
TRUSTEE, Christchurch, New Zealand?
WILL BILL JOHNSON, Carpenter, who worked at
URISINO, N.S.W., please communicate with the
Manager of Urisino?
Divorce Notices.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OP TASMANIA
(Divorce).
TO ALGERNON ROY WHITTAKER formerly of
Hobart in Tasmania last heard of at Sydney in New
South Wales—TAKE NOTICE that a Petition has
been filed in this Court endorsed with a notice to
you to appear and answer the charges in the petition
of CHARLOTTE LETITIA WHITTAKER of Garden
Island Creek in Tasmania praying for a dissolution
of marriage In default of your so appearing you
will not be allowed to address the Court and the
Court will proceed to hear the said Petition proved
and pronounce judgment in respect thereto. And
take further notice that for the purpose aforesaid
within Thirty days after the date of this publication
an appearance must be entered at the Registry of the
Supreme Court of Tasmania Macquarie Street Hobart.
—(l.s.) R. G. BINGHAM, Principal Registrar.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF TASMANIA
(Divorce).
TO WILLIAM ALFRED ORMOND LONG formerly
of Hobart in Tasmania Ship’s Cook last heard of at
Sydney in New South Wales. —TAKE NOTICE that
a petition has been filed in this Court endorsed
with a notice to you to appear and answer the
charges in the petition of LILIAN VICTORIA
HANNAH LONG of Hobart in Tasmania praying for
a dissolution of marriage In default of your so
appearing you will not be allowed to address the
Court and the Court will proceed to hear the said
petition proved and pronounce judgment in respect
thereto. And take further notice that for the pur-
pose aforesaid within Thirty days after the date
of this publication an appearance must be entered
at the Registry of the Supreme Court of Tasmania
Macquarie Street Hobart. —(l.s) R. G. BINGHAM,
Principal Registrar.
mJLm
■lm
The I Anti-T.Mt . Appeal
One Australian in nineteen dies from Tuberculosis ! Help fight
this national menace ! Support the Anti-T.B. Appeal for £50,000.
Help towards the building of an up-to-date Clinic and provision of
Mobile Service to Country Districts. Send all donations to the
Honorary Treasurer, Anti-T.B. Appeal, 33 Macquarie Place, Sydney.
/a
The woman behind the
man on the land
Have city folk to-day forgotten the country
woman? . . . the great part she’s played
through years of war!
Believe us, we haven’t ... at Eveready.
“Then,” you ask, “why can’t we at all times
buy batteries, and share with city people favour-
ite radio programmes . . . hear the daily news
broadcasts that always kept us in touch?”
A simple question, you think, demanding a
simple answer. But it isn’t as simple as that.
For a long time now we’ve been trying to
keep level with war orders. But it hasn’t been
easy and despite our best efforts some country
folk have gone short.
Here's news you've been waiting for
At last we’re picking up on
civilian requirements. But
that doesn’t mean we’re let-
ting up. Because we know
that the most urgently needed
civilian battery is the radio
battery for country homes,
we’re continuing all out to
catch up with present - day
demands. Radio Batteries for
civilian use will leave our
factory as fast as we can
make them. But keep in
mind there may be other
transport delays over which
we have no control.
eVEREADy
TRADE-MARK
EVEREADY (AUST.} PTY. LTD.
MADE SPECIALLY TO
PREVENT SORE THROATS
Thrift is a weapon that
defeats the enemy—save
and invest all you can.
CRAVEN fl
10 for 1/1 20 for 2/2
■■■l’,
■ f
> f >
Sfc*
&
V
/'■
JM
sX'<-
W
w
m
55648
Our Service Department.
Wants.
To buy Australia Through a Windscreen
(Hatfield) and Autobiography of “Banjo”
Paterson. —3536.
To buy Will Ogilvie’s Fair Girls and Grey
Horses. —3534.
To buy Norman Lindsay’s Magic Pudding. —
3535.
Information Sought.
Prospects of the fish-canning industry in Aus-
tralia? Are canneries now operating success-
fully in the Eastern States?
If sufficient supplies of salmon and tuna can
be obtained there should be a reasonable
chance of successful operation in the future.
Two fish canneries are now working in N.S.W.;
both have had a hard time owing to the diver-
sion of salmon to the fresh-fish market. Prices
have now been fixed so that fishermen are more
likely to send their catches to the canneries than
to the open market.
What nations agreed to the establishment of
the Suez Canal ? What dues are charged for
transit through the canal?
The Convention of Constantinople was signed
on October 29, 1888, by Britain, Austria-
Hungary, France, Germany, Italy, the Nether-
lands, Russia, Spain and Turkey. Transit dues
are ss. 9d. per ton for laden vessels and
2s. 10-)d. per ton for vessels in ballast.
Longest noon-to-noon run of a clipper ship?
Authority ?
The Champion of the Seas made 465 nautical
miles on the llth-12th December, 1854. Infor-
mation from Lloyd’s Calendar.
Record tally of sheep shorn by one man in
a day using hand shears ? What was considered
a fair tally at the time?
In 1892 Jack Howe shore 321 sheep in 7hr.
40min. For the previous week he had averaged
259 per day. The average tally varied con-
siderably according to class of sheep; tallies
of 150 and better were frequent with the
small, plain-bodied, bare-pointed sheep then
common, but the short-woolled, heavy-yoked,
wrinkly Vermont sheep would decrease tallies
by 50 p.c. Blade shearing is now practically
confined to stud sheep, and 60 a day is fair.
In the old days among flock sheep 100 a day
would be regarded as fair and 120 as good.
What qualifications must an alien possess to
be eligible for naturalisation ?
(a) That the applicant has either resided in
British dominions for not less than five years
(being not less than one year immediately prior
to the application and previous residence for
four years within the eight years immediately
preceding the application) or been in the ser-
vice of the Crown for not less than five years
within the last eight years before the application;
( b ) that he is of good character and has an ade-
quate knowledge of the English language; (c)
that he intends if his application is granted
either to reside in British dominions or to enter
or continue in the service Of the Crown.
How can verdigris be cleaned from a wood-
fired copper?
Heat the copper and use powdered sandsoap
and kerosene, mixed to a paste and applied with
a woollen cloth. Rinse with hot water, wipe
dry and finally go over the inside with a clean
rag moistened with sweet oil. Allow oil to re-
main until copper is needed, then wipe dry and
fill with water.
Brief Answers.
M.C.T.: For the five years ended 1935-36
I. gallons of potable spirits were con-
sumed annually in Australia N. 5.8.: Use in
same way as whitewash, adding a handful of
salt to each bucketful N.D.F.; He was
Minister of Justice. (2) Improve drainage where
possible, lime paths thickly and sweep off after a
few days. (3) Sharks and snakes are considered
to have a sense of smell and hearing
J. Did not appear in 1941 Interested;
(1) Write to N.S.W. Newsagents’ Association,
99 Clarence-street, Sydney. (2) Yes, but ex-
pensive H.C.McK.: Contact Mr. Man-
chester, Stock Inspector, Charleville, Queens-
land SJ.L.: Department of Agriculture and
Stock could advise E.M.8.: “For Sale” ads.
are not admissible to the Service page....
W.McK.; Hallstroms, Ltd., 462 Willoughby-
road, Willoughby, N.S.W., specialise in the
manufacture of ice-chests and Icy Balls for
country users; write there for particulars.
W.J.F.: Send stamped, addressed en-
velope for reply... .H. 8.: No references....
G.H.W.: The Dunlop Rubber Co., 27-33 Went-
worth-avenue, Sydney, can advise on Stabinol.
~. .Cubberlie: Unmarried old-age pensioners
may receive 12s. 6d. per week or receive free
board and lodging without affecting the pension
rate. Contact the Pensions Department
K. The owner of copyright in a literary
work has the sole right to transmit by radio the
work in which copyright subsists W.G.D.:
“Our lives begin with trouble here, Our life
is but a span, And cruel death is always near,
So frail a thing is man.” From the New
England Primer, author unknown W.J.F.:
(1) The dictation test concerns immigrants and
has nothing to do with applicants for naturali-
sation. (2) British. (3) Any children born
within British dominions would be British
TM.' (1) The rule says: “All players have
the right to shuffle, dealer having right to
shuffle last.” (2) Yes, all royalties are paid for.
Answets to Correspondents
Name and address must appear on the MS. No
liability is undertaken re contributions voluntarily
submitted; and no MS. will be returned unless
stamps accompany. MS. should be addressed to
the Editor.
J.T.W.; Poisoned waterholes and dying bush-
men are taboo... .J.A.H.: Humorous but slight.
F.W.C.: As lively as a dead duck
W.M.F., A.G Magazinish D.W.: Try a
daily J.M.D.: Crooked company promoters
are sentenced to eternity in the w.p.b
J.8.C.: Frothy and unreal M.F.: Bill and
the time-table don’t mix EJ.B.: Style jerky,
material unattractive, plot magazinish... .L.L.:
City bushman stuff R.B.McD.; The
Colonel’s pyjamas are far too thin C.R.:
Tepid G.W.: The feeblest of wows
E.D.: You’ve been reading novelettes T.F.,
R.C.: Not far off P.H.: “I make up poems
and I am also a crackerjack at snake yarns.”
You’re a bit of a jumping-jack as a versifier,
so try us with the snake yarns.


The reason why so
many old men and
women are poor.
THE reason why so many old men and women are
poor is that they have never had any plan for
making their old age secure.
They may have dreamed of a plan, but have
never acted on one.
Through the A.M.P. Society any man (or
woman) in good health can make his future
financially secure.
By acting he (or she) makes his savings
do double duty: the money he puts into Life Assur-
ance is put by the Society into the War Loan for the
Nation’s security.
Act on this suggestion! Ring the nearest
A.M.P. Office and say that you want a representative
to call.
A.M.P. SOCIETY
Security through Co-operation.
Principal Board:
Sir Samuel Hordern, K.8.E., Chairman.
Cecil H. Hoskins, Esq., Deputy Chairman.
Hon. Sit Frederick H. Tout, M.L.C., Hubert Fairfax, Esq., W. A. Mackar, Esq..
Dr. S. A. Smith, Septimus G. Rowe, Esq.
A. W. Sneddon, F.1.A., General Manager and Actuary.
S. Osmond, Secretary.
M. C. Buttfield, Manager for New South Wales.
Head Offices 87 PITT STREET. SYDNEY.
WHY SINGAPORE FELL.
By Lt.-Gen. H. Gordon Bennett.
AN ILLUMINATING HISTORICAL RECORD OF TUB FIRST IMPORTANCE.
Illustrated 12 /- (post. 4d.}. On Sale at All Booksellers.
SOME AUSTRALIAN BOOKS.
ONWARD AUSTRALIA, by lon Idness. 4/-
(post 2d.)- In bis glowing but realistic pic-
ture lon Idriess points the way to prosperity
and security for Australia.
THE BATTLE FOR THE INLAND- Tbe case
for tbe Bradfleld-Idriess Plan. By F. B. V.
Timbury. 3/- (post 2d.). .
THE RED HEART. Stories of Central Aus-
tralia. By Frank Clune. 4/6 (post 2d.),
THE DISTANT VIEW. Experiences as a
musician and as a traveller. By IV Arundel
Orchard, formerly Director of N.S.W. State
Conservatorium of Music. 12/6 (post 4d.).
NAUGHT TO 33. By Randolf Bedford. Ibe
Indiscreet History of the First Thirty-three
Tears of His Colourful Life. 10/6 (post 4d.).
THE STORY OF ELIZABETH GOULD. By
Alex H. Chisholm. Limited edition. 21/-
(post 3d.). „„„ „
ONE HUNDRED POEMS, 1910-1930. By
Kenneth Slessor. 5/- (post 3d.).
WE DROVE THE AMERICANS. The clilomUe
of two Australian women. By Bethia l oott
and Molly Mann. 5/- (post 3d.).
FRONT EINE AIRLINE, The War Story of
Qantas Empire Airways. By B. Bennett
Bremner. 12/6 (post 4d.). .
ETIQUETTE FOB AUSTRALIANS. A com
plete handbook. By Noreen Koutled„e. /
HOME AGAIN! Domestic Architecture for the
Normal Australians. By John D. Moore.
MARVELS 3 OF THE GREAT BARRIER
BEEF. North Australia and
Profusely illustrated. 2/6 (P 0 2d.).
POPPY AND THE GEMS. A book for Chll
dren. By Pixie O’Harns. 8 /6 3A).
PAPUA —ITS PEOPLE AND ITS PROMISE.
By Lewis Lett. 7/6 (post 3d.).
JAMES HARDY VAUX A Weraiy Rogue of
Australia. By Brian Elliot. 5/- (post 6a.).
ANGUS & ROBERTSON, LTD., 89 Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
Bradford Cotton Mills
f Dividends x To Re-
June, Profit. Pref. Ord. Total. Reserves, serves.
£ £ £ £
1935.. 12,514 6 p.c. 10 p.c. 8,340 4,174 5,099
1936.. 21,591 6 „ 12i ~ 12,645 8,946 14,045
Surplus revaluation assets, £22,406;
reserves capitalised, £21,500 • • 14,951
1937.. 26,966 6 p.c. 15 p.c. 18,525 8,441 26,892
1938.. 24,871 6 „ 1H „ 19,384 5,487 32,379
1939.. 29,001 6 ~ 12J „ 22,976 6,025 38,404
Capital assets reserve, £105,379 .. 143,783
1940. . 48,499 6 p.c. 10 p.c. 33,310 15,189 158,972
Bradford Cotton and Subsidiaries.*
Added capital assets reserve, £47,190.. 203,304
1941.. 59,097 6 p.c. 10 p.c. 55,381 3,716 207,020
Forfeited shares reserve, £8 .. 207,028
1942.. 85,133 6 p.c. 10 p.c. 70,948 14,185 221,213
1943.. 103,820 6 ~ 10 „ 83,372 20,448 241,661
1944.. 107,334 6 „ 10 „ 88,372 23,962 265,623
* Excluding outside interests.
This co. and its .subsidiaries are the
backbone of Australia’s infant cotton-
textile industry which has bounded along
under the stimulus and shelter provided
by war conditions, just as woollen textile
and other local manufactures did during
World War I. The co. was set on its
feet by the Keighleys, of Bradford, before
the slump of the early 1930’5. The public
became interested in 1935,- from which
point the table picks up the story. For
the decade to the close of last accounts
divs. averaged Iti P-C., sweetened with
new share issues at par, which were in
the nature of bonuses to shareholders,
because of the premium the scrip com-
manded in the market. Issued capital
shot up from £202,742 in 1938 to
£894,993 in 60,000 first and 93,104 second
cum. prefs., both 6 p.c. cumulative, and
741,889 ords. four years later. The figure
has remained steady since, not because
of lack of opportunity for further expan-
sion but because of shortage man-
power and inability to get necessary and
suitable mechanical equipment.
In addition to the co.’s own mills at
Sydney, which turn out cotton drills and
tweeds, denims and other industrial
cloths, there are the subsidiaries. They
include Bradford Cotton Spinning Mills
(Vic.), which produces yarns for weaving
ducks and similar cloth, and motor-tyre
fabrics ; Bradford Cotton Weaving Mills
(Vic.) makes canvas and smallwear fab-
rics, as well as water-proofing and finish-
ing heavy canvases; Austral Silk and
Cotton Mills (Vic.), weavers and dyers;
C. and D. Mills turn out heavy canvas
for military requirements ; and Sanforiz-
ing Services of Australia does the pre-
shrinking of cotton fabrics. Another off-
shoot, Bradford Cotton mills (N.Z.), m
which Felt and Textiles is also interested,
has now been added to the list, and is
erecting a weaving mill in the Dominion.
Shareholders have not been asked to con-
tribute.
Last term turnover—it is largely on
defence account —continued to expand.
But sales eased toward the close of ac-
counts, due “entirely to the steady
worsening of the man-power position.
Unskilled and over-age labor, including
part-time female workers with family re-
sponsibilities, and shortage of juniors
were some of the troubles. And these
aren’t likely to be satisfactorily solved
until the war position enables enough
suitable labor to be made available.
After setting aside £103,330 (up £4825)
for the taxgatherer and allowing £78,471
(up £3343) for depreciation, combined
net earnings of the parent and subsi-
diaries were £3514 better at £107,334.
That was after outside interests had been
deducted. The £107,334 was sufficient to
pay the prefs. their £9168 and show 13.2
p.c. on ord. capital as against 12.7, 12.9,
10.8, 16.1 and 16.2 p.c. back to 1939.
The figures suggest that no time was lost
in putting new capital to profitable em-
ployment. The div. was kept at 10 p.c.,
and the £23,962 that remained lifted the
book value of support for capital to
£265,623.
The next table shows what the board
did with the. new capital and other
moneys:
Parent, , —Consolidated Figures— N
1938. 1941. 1943. 1944.
Paid capital. . £202,742 £674,482 £894,976 £894,976
Outside inter-
ests ' .. 153 153 152
Sun. creditors! f 356,138 608,726 377,844
Tax reserve, 1 26,7651
etc. .. J I 45,940 93,390 120,373
Freehold ~ 49,068 348,928 389,866 395,188
Plant, etc. . . 117,938 558,565 741,412 722,069
Stock, etc. . . 66,906 310,029 595,598 400,288
Sundry debtors 28,672 102,242 127,334 161,730
Cash, etc. . . 16,957 1,903 21,382 21,382
Last term a reduction of £195,310 in
stocks (less raw cotton is now held) was
accompanied by a contraction of £225,882
in the amount coming to outsiders, in-
cluding the bank (£226,553, down
£101,242). The year’s improvement in
the more or less liquid surplus (£85,183)
was £37,985, . , e ,
Post-war outlook for this youthtui
Australian business bristles with diffi-
culties. In addition to complications
connected with raw cotton and yarns,
arising out of price control, etc., the
Government is importing cotton tex-
tiles under lend-lease and selling them
at prices below the figure at which com-
parable Australian-made goods can be
produced. Also, if war in Europe ends
before the struggle against Japan, Aus-
tralian pianufacturers are likely to be
engaged mainly upon Government war
contracts while British and American
plants have switched substantially to ordi-
nary commercial production. The ques-
tion arises, therefore, as to the nature
and extent of protection the Government
intends to give Australian manufacturers
under such conditions. Upon its policy
in this matter, and in connection with
controls, will largely depend the plans
and prospects of this Bradford co. and
other manufacturers.
Peters American Delicacy (Sydney)
To
June. Profit. Dividends. Reserves. Reserves.
£ £ £ £
1934.. > 43,383 10.7 p.c. = 42,583 800 623,267
Unexplained additions, £32,944 .. 556,211
1935.. 55,720 10.7 p.c. = 42,583 13,137 569,348
Unexplained additions, £28,847 .. 598,195
1936.. 68,517 12J p.c. = 49,681 18,836 617,031
Depreciation reserve, £20,276 .. 637,307
Unexplained reduction, £24,388 .. 612,919
1937.. 109,320 16 p.c. 63,876 45 444 068,363
Added depreciation res., £21,277,. 679,640
1938.. 113,491 8.9 p.c. = 35,486 78,005 707,645
Added depreciation res., £26,434.. 784,079
1939.. 96,812 8.9 p.c. = 35,486 61,326 840,405
Goodwill ( £25,250), freeholds, etc.,
sold to subsidiary, and £897,446
of bonus scrip issued from profit .. 870,600
Depreciation reserve disappears,
£453,423 417,232
Div. on bonus shares, £70,972 .. 346,260
1040.. 87,537 8.9 p.c. = 72,991 14,546 360,806
3941. . 77,306 8.9 „ „ 74,498 2,808 363,614
1942.. 70,637 8 „ „ 66,751 3,886 367,500
1943.. 83,825 9 „ „ 75,095 8,730 376,230
1944.. 85,478 9 „ „ 75,095 10,388 386,613
Inner reserves disclosed, £37,850 .. 424,463
Unlike the Victorian Companies Act,
the one in N. S. Wales doesn’t make it
obligatory for holding cos. to publish
consolidated accounts. So this Sydney
co. keeps the curtain drawn over
the figures of its subsidiaries. Still, in the
past the board treated the figures with
caution, and there is nothing to suggest
that the position is overstated now.
Chief source of earnings is two wholly-
owned subsidiaries, Peters Ice Cream Pty.
(paid capital £1,000,000), to which the
main section of the business was passed
and a one-for-one gift issue made from
the profit thereon in 1940, and Peters
Creameries Pty (paid capital £100,000).
Other interests include holdings in three
inter-State associates—Peters Arctic (Q.),
Peters (Vic.) and Peters (W.A.) —all in
the ice-cream business and giving a very
good account of themselves, and Peters
Petroleum Products, which handles petrol
and other liquid fuels, and in which Con-
solidated Press is interested.
Here is the position as the published
accounts show it:
1939. 1942. 1943. 1044.
Paid capital. . £397,446 £834,383 £834,383 £834,383
Sundry creditors* 95,835 75,124 64,141 11,563
Overdraft .. - 71,163 3,343 ’
Freeholds, etc. 285,345
Plant, etc. . . 687,281 94,699 50,491
Shares subsidiaries — 1 1,100,000 1,100,000 1,100,000
Other shares,
etc. . . 212,051 131,437 122,337 147,543
Stock . . 39,897
Book debts ~ 23,238 55,407 46,986 1,899
Cash .. .. 108,115 58,512
* Includes provision for taxation.
Last term the balance of plant (power
cabinets) was taken over by Peters Ice
Cream Pty. for £50,491. This, together
with a reduction of £45,087 in debtors’
balances, the year’s surplus earpings and
disclosure of inner reserves, is reflected in
reduction of £52,578 in the amount com-
ing to sundry creditors, etc., elimination
of the overdraft (£3343 at previous bal-
ance), addition of £25,000 to Government
securities (£50,000) and appearance of a
bank credit of £58,512.
For the 12 months to June 30 last the
ice cream co. reports satisfactory trading
results, though raw material products
were rationed for the last five months of
the term. A further increase in the cost of
raw materials was offset by a reduction in
operating costs. Since the close of ac-
counts turnover is reported well main-
tained, but further restriction of sup-
plies of raw materials is expected, and
the presence of fewer Allied troops in the
city suggests that sales have now passed
their peak. The creamery, originally ac-
quired to ensure raw-material supplies for
the ice-cream section of the business, is
now largely engaged in manufacture of
processed rnilkstuffs for the forces. It
has made rapid progress, turnover
approximated £500,000 for the 1943 term,
extensions to buildings and plant have
been made since, and the parent will
presently take up 50,000 new £1 shares
for cash.
After allowing £33,157 (down £12,105)
for depreciation, the board wrote the
parent’s net earnings last term at £85,478
(up £1653), equal to 10.2 p.c, on capital
as against 10, 8.4, 9.2 and 10.5 p.c. back
to 1940. The div. was kept at 9 p.c. The
£10,383 that remained, together with
£37,850 of inner reserves disclosed, lifted
the lay-by to £424,463. The board’s an-
nouncement that aggregate tax provision
of the subsidiaries was £139,000 (up
£53,600), and aggregate allowance for
depreciation £31,022 (up £5496), suggest
that the improvement in net earnings for
the entire organisation might have been
better than the parent’s figures alone
indicate.
Yarra Falls, Ltd.
Net To Re- Re-
June. Profit. Dividends. serves, serves.
jj £ £ *
1934.. 105,279 10 p.c. t= 90,000 15,279 243,429
Flood loss, £64,088 179,341
1935.. 102,185 Bp.c. = 72,000 30,185 209,526
1936.. 107,124 10 „ „ 90,000 17,124 226,650
1937.. 109,466 10 p.c. = 90,000 19,466 246,116
Share premiums, £49,168 •• 295,284
1038. .105,271 10 p.c. = 96,146 9,125 304,409
1939.. 115,433 10 „ „ 99,884 15,599 320,008
Share premiums, £1826 .. •• 321,834
1940.. 117,975 10 p.c. = 100,000 17,975 339,809
Yarra Falls And Subsidiaries.*
1941.. 153,875 10 p.c. = 100,000 53,875 427,93‘J
To staff fund, £5OOO .. . . • • 422,939
1942.. 122,922 10 p.c. = 100,000 22,922 445,861
To staff fund, £5OOO 440,861
1943.. 126,287 8£ p.c. = 87,500 38,787 479,648
To staff fund, £5OOO 474,648
1944.. 111,289 9ip.c..c 95,000 16,289 490,937
To staff fund, £5OOO .. •• 485,937
Plant replacement reserve, £21,000 . . 464,937
* After eliminating outside interests.
This co. is the largest and one of the
most efficient woollen and worsted yarn-
spinning and textile-manufacturing organ-
isations in the Commonwealth. In com-
petition with imports pre-war it set a
standard in production of the high-grade
worsted suitings and fine dress goods in
which it specialised that had long won
its own reward. With war came big
shifts in the nature of demand, as well
as a heavy increase in turnover, stand-
ardisation of output and a host of techni-
cal and other problems associated with
staffing, costs, price ceilings and main-
tenance.
The parent mills at Abbotsford (Vic.),
and those of the subsidiary, Globe
Worsted Mills, at Marrickvilie (N.S.W.),
have been lately engaged about 70 p.c.
on service contracts for both our own
and Allied forces, and an expanding
quantity of wool tops and some cloth
have been exported at prices fixed by
Government agency. The other 30 p.c.
of output has been confined mainly to
standardised civilian lines, of a quality
unsatisfactory to the maker, the public
and the war effort. Another small off-
shoot, Byfas Pty., has been kept busy
turning out parachute material.
Since the outbreak of war the business
has earned about as much for the Gov-
ernment as it has for shareholders. For
the five years to the close of last accounts
the amount paid in direct taxation
totalled £621,638, while net earnings for
shareholders aggregated £632,348, from
which divs. totalling £483,500 (average
9.6 p.c.) were paid, and these divs. have
been further taxed in the hands of share-
holders. Here is an analysis of last term’s


Position Vacant.
APPLICATIONS are invited and will be received by
Norseman Gold Mines N.L. on or before SATURDAY,
18th November, 1944 for the position, of
MANAGER
OF THE COMPANY’S MINES AT NORSEMAN, W.A.
Applications stating age, experience, including both
gold and sulphide ores and salary required to be
addressed to
No. 799 NATIONAL SERVICE OFFICE,
53 Martin Place, Sydney.
INVENTORS.—Have you an idea worth patenting?
Griffith, Hassel and Griffith, Patent Attorneys,
Asbestos House, Or. York and Barrack Streets, Sydney,
obtain Commonwealth and foreign patents.— Advt.
« * * «
Hydraulic Power, Electric and Hydraulic Lifts,
Limited (incorporated by Act of Parliament 1888),
hydraulic, electric and general engineers, lift
specialists. Maintenance and repairs of all classes of
lifts and other machinery. Colonial Mutual Life
Building, 14 Martin Place, Sydney.— Advt.
♦ ♦ * ♦
DAVIES & COLLISON, Patent Attorneys. Collins
House, 360 Collins Street, Melbourne, C.l. Austra-
lian and overseas Patents and Trade Marks. —Advt.
EYE LOTION
Ifor Inflamed Eyes and Eyelids ... Sold Everywhere
H. Rose & Co., Ply.. Ltd.. King Street. Sydney.
MANSE ASE
the perfect comfort male
support for everyman’a
everyday wear.
All meris-wear shops
and chemists.
Manufactured by Mansease Co., Drummoyne,
LET
r ATLAS >
CARRY THE
i BURDEN i
w
Jj
m
Established 1808 in Reign of George HI.
STABILITY
The *'Atlas” has seen many
battles, including the Battle of
Waterloo, and has emerged
from them all with greater
strength and prestige,
FIRE ACCIDENT MARINE
ATLAS
ASSURANCE COMPANY, LTD
( England)
ATLAS BUILDINGS, 8 SPRING ST., SYDNEY.
GUY H. HEATH, Manager, N.S.W.
E. V. ELDER,
Assistant Manager for Australia & New Zealand.
LEONARD PETTITT,
Manager for Australia Sc New Zealand.
Public Notice.
PERMANENT TRUSTEE COMPANY OF
NEW SOUTH WALES LIMITED.
NOTICE OF MEETING.
THE FIFTY-SEVENTH ORDINARY
GENERAL MEETING
of Shareholders will be held at the
Company’s Office,
23-25 O’Connell Street, Sydney, on
TUESDAY, 14th NOVEMBER, 1944,
at 2.15 p.m.
BUSINESS.
To receive the Directors’ Report and Balance
Sheet to 30th September, 1944.
To elect three Directers. Sir Thomas Buckland,
Mr. John Ewing and Mr. Francis Harmsworth
Way (who was appointed to fill the vacancy on
the Board caused by the death of the late Mr.
Frank Nelson Yarwood) retire in accordance
with the Articles of Association, but are eligible
and offer themselves for re-election.
To appoint Auditors and fix their remuneration.
Messrs. Robert W. Nelson and Co., Chartered
Accountants (Aust.), the retiring Auditors, are
eligible for re-appointment and offer themselves
accordingly.
To consider any other business of which due
notice shall have been given.
By Order of the Board.
E. WHITTLE,
Ist November, 1944. Manager.
The Federal Mutual Insurance Company
of Australia Limited
FIRE, MARINE AND ACCIDENT INSURANCES
EFFECTED AT LOWEST CURRENT RATES
Prompt and liberal settlements of claims.
Directors: THOMAS A. MAQNEY, Chairman; F. W. Dues bury ; Sydney Sampson.
R. A. MANZIE, Managing Director. S. T. RUTTER, General Manager.
'Phone (three lines) : 87361. Branches in All States. 139 Pitt Street. Sydney.
THAT-
ItUL HP
HAVE YOU
CONSIDERED
THIS CODICIL?
By adding a simple codicil to your Will you can guard against difficulties
and loss which might arise should your Executor die or become incapacitated.
By means of such a codicil you can name Burns Philp Trust Co. Ltd. as joint
Executor with your present appointee or, if you wish, as sole Executor.
In this way you gain positive assurance of continuous and sound administration
and are relieved of a serious anxiety. The Company will willingly forward
full particulars.
DIRECTORS—James Burn* - Robert John Nosworthy - Lewi* Armstrong • Joseph Mitchell
Manager—C. H. Chester
BURNS PHILP TRUST
c O MPANY LIMITED
7 BRIDGE STREET. SYDNEY
PHONE: 6 7901.
Box 543 B, G.P.0., Sydney.
BP 9-44.
©MM3 1 ®
UIL BIN G BOARD
K
a
is
i
asy to fix!
Gane-ite is made in handy sized sheets
• ready for fixing. It can be grooved,
panelled, or finished in any colour
scheme. A room lined with Cane-ite
is insulated against heat, cold, and
noise. Specify Cane-ite for your post-
war home and have comfort and
beauty in every room.
A C.S.R. PRODUCT
BUILDS • INSULATES
DECORATES • ABSORBS SOUND
Manufactured by
THE COLONIAL SUGAR REFINING CO. LTD.. Building Materials Division
MARKETING: CANE-ITE . . SLASWOOL
PLASTER PRODUCTS. . A S B E S T O S FIBRE
CA.SB-44
turnover, together with average appor-
tionment of £1 of selling prices:
Per £1
Turnover selling
Value. p.c. price.
Raw materials .. £987,338 £6.89 9s. 2d.
Wages, salaries .. 589,727 , s- r,{
Maintenance, etc. 152,761 7.10 Is. od.
Depreciation . . 69,117 1.21 os. Bd.
Fuel, water, etc... 54,660 1.62 os. 6d.
Insurance, etc. . . 34,833 1.6*. os. 4d.
Taxes . . .. 154,942 7.21 Is. sd.
Trading profit . . 108,046 5.02 Is. Od.
£2,151,430 100.00 £lO 0
Such heavy Government bleeding—the
Treasury now takes much more than
shareholders out of the business —is a
short-sighted policy, which saps the re-
cuperative power of industry, and that
at a time when such power is most needed
in order to take care of re-employment
and the standard of living post-war.
Last term turnover eased, owing
largely to shortage of skilled operatives
and absenteeism, with a consequent rise
in unit costs. After setting aside £131,000
(down £19,977) for the taxgatherer,
allowing £52,667 (down £3173) for ordi-
nary depreciation and a special £16,500
(up £4000) for replacement of war-
exhausted equipment, the board wrote
combined net earnings £15,007 short of
the previous year’s at £111,280. That
was 11.1 p.c. on capital as against 12.6,
12.2, 15.3, 11.7 and 11.5 p.c. back to
1939. The div. was lifted from 8| p.c.
to 9i p.c., the usual £5OOO was sent to the
staff fund, and a further £21,000 was ear-
marked for special plant replacement,
making the reserve for this purpose
£50,000.
Extensions to the Yarra Falls and
Globe mills are also to be carried out as
soon as conditions permit. The next
table shows the preparations the board
is making to help meet the outlay:
Yarba Falls and Subsidies.
1939. 1943. 1944.
Paid capital .. £998,342 £1,000,000 £1,000,000
Outside interests*.. 5,267 5,460
Overdraft . . . . 14,275
Sundry creditors! . . 212,275 388,360 390,308
Staff funds . . . . 5,000 20,000 25,000
Freeholds . . . . 369,031 446,150 430,114
Plamt, etc 420,447 307,679 274,022
Stocks . . . . 591,936 845,832 805,721
Debtors . . . . 170,327 206,434 204,968
Shares . . . . 60,174 34,554 35,417
Cash, etc 26,841 115,125 240,462
* Including proportion reserves. f Including tax
provision.
Last term’s surplus earnings, together with
allowances for depreciation, etc,, and a
reduction of £40,111 in stocks enabled
cash, etc., to be strengthened by
£125,337. The improvement in the more
or less liquid surplus (£871,260) was
£77,675.
The exact nature and extent of the
problems that lie ahead of Austral Malay
Tin and its associated cos., as well as
other tin concerns operating in Malaya
and southern Burma and Thailand, will
not be known until the Jap has been
driven from the Peninsula, Austral
Malay’s holding in associated tin cos., to-
gether with net earnings of these cos. for
the year to June 30 last, are as follows :
Paid Austral
Capital. Holding. Profit.
Kampong Kamunting .. £35,000 £2,000 £767
Thabawleik .. .. 160,000 41,100 4375
Pungah . . . . 430,000 74,465 3548
Austral Amalgamated .. 386,000 • 70,465 2624
Current earnings are derived from invest-
ments outside Malaya. Fixed and other
assets there remain at their book value
at the time of the Jap invasion. Serious
damage was done to the dredges by the
“scorched earth” policy. Further dam-
age to plant and equipment, or its re-
moval, by the enemy cannot be ascer-
tained until the properties have been in-
spected. Until this is done plans for the
future of any of the cos. in the group
cannot be made. Then the problem will
be to decide whether rehabilitation is jus-
tified when its cost is weighed against the
profit to be expected from remaining ore
reserves. Austral Malay also holds 6250
£1 and 35,000 Is, deferred shares in
Austral N.Z. Mining, Ltd.
* * * *
Edna May Amalgamated, operating at
Westonia (W.A.), reports a net loss of
£9979 for the year to June 30 last, com-
pared with a loss of £11,593 for the pre-
vious term and a profit of £11,392 for the
year before that. Last div, (6d. per ss.
share) was paid in Feb., 1941. Reduc-
tion in last year’s loss was due to a profit
of £3185 from the wolfram plant, which
came into operation duripg Dec., 1943,
and treated 15,050 tons of dump material
for 23.95 tons concentrates, containing
1555.74 units WO3. Developments at
the bottom of the new shaft, hindered by
shortage of labor and the cutting of high-
pressure water channels, have been dis-
appointing ; more granite than usual was
met with. The pumps are lifting a mil-
lion gallons of water daily from the mine.
Enough ore is in sight above the 575 ft.
level to keep the mill going for the next
two years under present conditions. Pros-
pects centre mainly in the eastern ore
bodies yet to be developed.
3jS SjS S(C
Comet Gold Mines, Marble Bar
(W.A.), continues to produce attractive
ore. In August 1213 tons were treated
for 1145 fine oz. gold, an average of
18dwt. per ton. The comparatively low
return for July, 902 fine oz. gold from
1352 tons ore and 130 sands, was due
to clean-up difficulties leaving gold in the
circuit.


ẃ
CALTEX LIMITED
ADVISORS ON ALL IMPORTANT PROBLEMS
OF PETROLEUM USAGE AND LUBRICATION -+C
IN ALL ITS PHASES
w
\v
frfl
'/
r
-j
/ I
= Mil
pc
-S3
pardonable precaution
Yes there are better places to keep your Valet razor,
but the safest place is none too good! Your Valet razor
today is an irreplaceable treasure. Irreplaceable because
no more will be made while the war lasts; and a
treasure because in these blade-short days the selt-
stropping Valet gives you weeks of perfect shaving
from every single blade. Take every care of both
razor and strop!
For instance: Hang your strop on a hook at breast
level When stropping, keep the handle at right
angles to the strop. Don’t let the strop sag or twist
—keep it taut and straight
VALET RAZOR STROPS ITSELF
Valet blades s\d. each
Business, Rollery, Etc
Staff Provident Schemes
An amendment of the Income Tax
Act of April this year has hastened com-
pletion of many staff provident plans
either financed or subsidised by em-
ployers. With company taxation at
present very high there has been an
accelerated tendency for boards of
directors, subject to approval of share-
holders, to transfer larger sums than ordi-
narily to staff benefit funds. Such trans-
fers are free of taxation provided certain
conditions are observed.
Section 66 of the amended Act pro-
vides:—-
Where a taxpayer sets apart or pays in
the year of income any sum as or to a
fund to provide individual personal benefits,
pensions or retiring allowances for his em-
ployees and —
(a) the taxpayer is under a legal obli-
gation to set apart or pay that sum; and
( b ) the rights of the employees to re-
ceive the benefits, pensions or retiring
allowances are fully secured,
an amount ascertained in accordance with
the provisions of this section shall be an
allowable deduction.
In ascertaining the amount allowed as
a deduction to the firm for tax purposes
the Commissioner determines the em-
ployees whom it is proposed to benefit and
the amount of the benefit, and excludes
therefrom the benefits which are payable
to “employees” who are not productive
of assessable income and the benefits
which he decides are being paid to share-
holders in a private company as share-
holders and not as employees.
Then he decides whether the approved
transfers to the pfovident fund exceed
£lOO per person (or 5 p.c. of salary,
whichever is the greater), and determines
whether in special circumstances (such
as old age) he should grant a larger
exemption than £lOO or 5 p.c. a head.
Otherwise £lOO or 5 p.c. per person per
year is the maximum contribution that is
free of taxation so far as the employer is
concerned.
Section 79 of .the Act provides for
donations to a fund which are not a
continuing legal liability on the firm: — 1
Where a taxpayer sets apart or pays in
the year of income any sum, not allowable
in whole or in part as a deduction under
section 66 of this Act, as or to a fund to
provide individual personal benefits, pen-
sions or retiring allowances for employees
who are residents and are engaged in his
or any business or any class of business,
or for dependant's of such employees, and
the rights of the employees or dependants
to receive the benefits, pensions or retiring
allowances are fully secured, an amount
ascertained in accordance with the pro-
visions of this section shall, subject to sub-
section 3 of the last preceding section,
be an allowable deduction.
In determining the amount to be allowed
as a deduction for taxation purposes
the Commissioner will exclude, under this
section, contributions on behalf of non-
residents and “employees” not engaged
in business, and contributions on behalf
of shareholders in private cos. as share-
holders. But a director of a company
under both section 66 and section 79
is deemed to be an employee. Subject to
special circumstances, the maximum
allowable per person is again £lOO or
5 p.c. of salary, whichever is the greater.
The reference to subsection 3 imposes
a limitation of the deduction in respect
of contributions to the amount of em-
ployer’s profit that would otherwise be
taxable.
The difference between sections 66 and
79 is mainly that the former covers non-
resident employees but calls for a legal
liability to contribute to the provident
fund, whereas the latter excludes ex-
Australian employees (other than men on
active service), but contributions are
left to the discretion of the employer.
The provident scheme must be gov-
erned by a trust deed. The trust fund
must be separated from the control of
the company, and should be in the hands
of trustees. The terms of the trust deed
must be approved by the Taxation Com-
missioner. The trust fund need not cover
every employee, but all willing and elig-
ible employees within a certain class
must be included. It may apply, for in-
stance, to only, or to wage-
earners only, to office staff only or to
factory workers only. Again* the scheme
may apply only within certain age
groups, or to groups with a certain period
of service.
But in all cases the Taxation Com-
missioner will raise the question of
whether the idea is really to establish a
bona fide staff benefit fund, and -not
merely to provide a means of passing on
profits to working sharehplders by a
roundabout means so as to avoid taxa-
tion. This question arises, as already
seen, with particular emphasis in the
case of private companies.
The scheme may be partly contribu-
tory by employees or wholly paid for by
the employer. It may be an internal fund
—that is, a self-administered assurance
or pension scheme —or it may be estab-
lished by payment of premiums to a
sound life-assurance society. The second
course will usually be found most desir-
able where the staff does not exceed 100.
It is possible to provide for the younger
members of the staff —perhaps up to age
55 —by taking out endowment assurances
with a mutual life society payable
at or near retirement age —say 65 —and
to cover older members of the staff by an
internal fund —for instance, the allotment
of the maximum £lOO or 5 p.c. each year
until retirement, each contribution to be
held in trust with or without interest
until handed over.
It will be found that in the establish-
ment of any provident fund in a firm
that has been going for a long period
there will be members of the Staff
who have reached an age when compara-
tively little can be done for them by
means of annual allocations set aside in
an internal fund or paid to an assurance
company. It may or may not be possible
to look after these people on retirement
by other means. But it should be kept
clearly in mind that there has to be a
beginning to these provident funds some
time, and it is better to make a begin-
ning including most of the present staff
and all the eligible future staff rather than
to abandon the idea altogether because
of the difficulty of looking after em-
ployees already near the retiring age.
Many of these members of the staff were
the responsibility of another generation.
Still, where there are even half a dozen
years to go something can be done for
an old employee by a simple annual
money allocation provided transfers to
the fund by the firm allow it and the
taxation law is wide enough.
Where the general basis of the provi-
dent fund is to be that of endowment
assurance with a life office it will be neces-
sary to establish the principle of super-
annuation. It is usual to take out sepa-
rate policies for the employer’s contribu-
tion and that of the employee (if any).
The assurance will be payable at a cer-
tain age (perhaps 65) or to dependants
at prior death. The sum assured is usually
based on salary, plus an addition for
years of service. Often the arrangement
is 2\ p.c. of salary from the employee,
2j p.c. from the firm, with an increase
in the sum assured equal to one-tenth or
one-fifth of one per cent, of salary for
each year of past service. Arrangements
may be made for increases in the sum
assured to correspond with future salary
rises running into more than £25 a year.
The wage- or salary-earner’s contribu-
tion, plus the two contributions by the
firm, are paid to the assurance office,
usually fortnightly, in one lump, with all
the other premiums. On the basis of a
man aged 33 next birthday, with six past
years of service, receiving £8 4s. a week,
a sum assured of £825 or thereabouts can
be obtained at age 65 in most mutual
offices, bonuses accumulated being pay-
able as well. This is on the assumption
that one-tenth of one per cent, of salary
is added to the employer’s contribution
for past service, and that both employer’s
and employee’s contributions are 2\ p.c,
of salary—in the case quoted, a total of
9s. 2d. a week. The past-service contri-
bution in that premium amounts to Is.
On maturity of the policy arrangements
can be made for a lump-sum payment or
periodic instalments. But it is not basi-
cally a pension plan.
In the event of death before retirement
the sum assured, with bonuses, would go
into the deceased employee’s estate In
the case of his leaving the firm for an-
other job he would automatically be
entitled to the policy for which he him-
self has paid, and it could be left to the
trustees of the provident fund as to what
became of the policy paid for by the firm
It might be handed to him to do with
as he wished—surrender it for its cash
value, convert into a paid-up policy of
smaller amount, or continue to pay all
premiums out of his own pocket until
maturity. Or it might be cashed by the
trustees for the general benefit of the
fund.
The life office will usually guarantee
definite surrender and paid-up policy
values. It will probably stipulate that the
surrender value of the two policies shall
be equal at least to the total premiums
paid by the employee, with a much
higher value as the policy nears
maturity. There is often an undertaking
that where 50 or more employees are in-
cluded in the scheme the office will ac-
cept all entrants up to an assurance of
£lOOO or more without medical examina-
tion provided a satisfactory statement of
health is forthcoming. In the majority
of cases assurances can also be arranged
for men on active service; though the
death cover may be restricted during the
period of service, the assured soldier re-
turning to civilian life has a policy already
in force that he might find difficult to
get after serving in the tropics.
As to the assured sums granted on a
paid-up policy—that is, a policy made
free of further premiums prior to matu-
rity —the amount of the policy is usually
a proportion of the original sum assured
equal to the proportion which the pre-
miums paid bear to the total premiums
payable. Accrued bonuses are added to
the policy, but usually there is no further
participation.
In establishing a provident fund, if the
services of a life-assurance office are
availed of, the office will be able to supply
specimen trust deeds and suggest internal
rules of operation. In addition, however,
it will be advisable to have separate legal
advice on the framing of the trust deed
to suit the peculiar circumstances of the
case.
In the instance of an internal fund —that
is, a self-supporting pension scheme, the
funds of which are invested and gener-
ally taken care of by the trustees them-
selves—considerably more work is en-
tailed. There is still the trust deed to be
drawn up and approved, whilst an actu-
arial basis for the scheme has to be estab-
lished, involving almost invariably (in
a comprehensive plan) the services of a
qualified actuary.
An internal fund, where it has the
financial strength, is often a more desir-
able plan for a purely pension scheme
than endowment assurance. But a big
staff is needed over which to spread its
liabilities, and it would probably involve
the employment of a special officer to
service it.


Public Notices.
I, EMIL MENDEL, Stateless, born at Reckling-
hausen, Germany, and resident five years in Aus-
tralia, now residing at > Piper House, Longworth
Crescent, Point Piper, N.S.W., intend to apply for
naturalisation under the Nationality Act 1920-1936.
I, ANDREW FRANCIS BALKANY, of Hungarian
nationality, born at Debrecen, Hungary, and resident
five years in Australia, now residing at 143 Bellevue
Road, Bellevue Hill, N.S.W., intend to apply for
naturalisation under the Nationality Act 1920-1986.
I, MICHAEL NOTTIS, of Greek nationality, born at
Argyracastro and resident 20 years in Australia, now
residing at 115 Abercrombie Street, Sydney, N.S.W.,
intend to apply for naturalisation under the Nation-
ality Act 1920-1936.
I, ANNE MARIE COLLIN, Stateless, born at Berlin,
Germany, and resident five years in Australia, now
residing at 21 Nelson Street, Gordon, N.S.W., intend
to apply for naturalisation under the Nationality
Act 1920-1936.
I, MARCEL LORBER, Stateless, formerly of Austrian
nationality, born at Vienna and resident five years
in Australia, now residing at 141 Brougham Street,
King’s Cross, N.S.W., intend to apply for naturali-
sation under the Nationality Act 1920-1936.
, T*o-DAY more than ever, care must be
x exercised in all clothing purchases,
for every coupon counts. Take
no chances on Hats, select an AKUBRA
and be sure of longer wear plus
appearance and style .... MADE
OF AUSTRALIAN PURE FUR FELT.
JL
mvrr
YOUR BEST IN AN fIKUBRfI
The General Electric Co. Ltd., of England,
in War .. as in Peace
AT THE SERVICE OF THE EMPIRE
The long experience of The General Electric Co. Ltd., of England—
the largest British electric manufacturing organisation in the Empire—
in the planning, designing and installation of equipment for the speedy
handling of bulk materials—up to 2000 tons per hour—such as in mines,
collieries, electric power stations, etc., has been of
the greatest value to the nation during the war.
The Company’s knowledge has been still further
enriched through meeting the exacting individual
requirements of wartime ; and after hostilities the
resources of The G.E.C.—which, during the last
few years have been available only for war effort
—will once again be at the disposal of all con-
cerned with material handling problems in Aus-
tralia and throughout the world.
Sr.&.C. —Always in the Forefront of
Electrical Progress.
(Sole Australian Representatives of The of England.)
SYDNEY, NEWCASTLE, MELBOURNE, PERTH, HOBART, LAUNCESTON.
BRISBANE: British General Electric Company (Q’land) Pty., Ltd.
ADELAIDE: A. G. Healing, Ltd.
ELECTRIFICA TION
SCHEMES include
all industries: Air-
craft; Chemicals;
Collieries; Food;
Mining; Smelting;
Locomotive and
Wagon Works;
Motor Car Works;
Ships and Shipyards;
Textile • and other
Mills; Oi 1 Fields;
Refineries, etc. etc.
Maintaining Purity of Our Wines
The success of the Australian wine in-
dustry, particularly so far as exports are
concerned, has been in a large measure
due to legislation in N. S. Wales, Victoria
and South Australia prohibiting adultera-
tion of any wines other than sparkling
or medicinal types with cane-sugar or
other substitutes.
An agitation is going on at present
for Government permission to allow the
use of sugar in sweetening Australian light
wines of the sauternes type and the use
of cane-sugar alcohol in the fortifying of
port, sherry, etc. Hitherto the legal posi-
tion has been that wine must be a pure
grape product, and the sounder part of
the industry has been built up on that
basis.
Some difficulties do exist in the indus-
try at present, but they can be over-exag-
gerated. The fortifying spirit is made
from grapes, and there is a shortage of it
when the prevailing enormous demand
for our wines is considered. Consump-
tion by Australian civilians has almost
doubled, and, with the service demand,
Allied and Australian, the loss of the
British market has been more than com-
pensated for. With a man-power short-
age on the production side, the position
• has been reached in the trade where it is
difficult to keep up the supply of less
expensive wines, particularly where a
maker believes that a good part of his
stock will be the better for extra
maturing.
Admitting present difficulties, the posi-
tion is, nevertheless, one in which the
industry should be safeguarded, not
undermined. Cheap substitutes not only
affect the demand for the product of the
winegrower who has worked hard to
establish his enterprise on a basis of
quality; they also prejudice the wines in
the eyes of connoisseurs, and, therefore,
eventually, in the eyes of the public, since
wine-drinkers generally are inclined to
hang on the words of the experts.
In pre-war days a valuable selling point
in the difficult London market was that
Australian wines were a pure grape pro-
duct. Even at that, though experts appre-
ciated the quality of our wines (and some
merchants had no difficulty in passing
them off as other vintages), there was a
prejudice in favor of Continental brands
which was hard to overcome in the public
mind.
The present outstripping of the supply
by demand should not unsettle Australian
Governments to the extent of permitting
adulteration of wines in a way that will
hurt both the grape-growing industry
and wine exports when the abnormali-
ties of war pass away. This is not the
first occasion that temporary production
difficulties have been experienced in the
trade, but it is the first time that the in-
tegrity of our wines has been seriously
threatened. At a time when far too
many Australian standards —political,
social and economic—are on the decline,
those with authority should think hard
before allowing present exigencies in the
wine industry to influence them in doing
something that might have far-reaching
adverse future consequences. Adultera-
tion would have a decidedly bad effect
on post-war wine exports.
The A.C.T.U. is pressing for an in-
crease in the basic wage, an amendment
of the wage-pegging regulations and a
“uniform prosperity loading in all States.”
Trade-union Ifeaders are becoming im-
patient with the Government for not
having fixed the matter to suit their
palates much sooner. The A.C.T.U. is
reported to approve of price control in
“general principle,” but wants to “bust”
wage control. In other words, it wants
everything its own way, even though
present conditions, judged by war-time
standards, are all in favor of the wage-
earner. And the majority of wage-earners
have failed to support war loans. Had
they not been taught by such bodies as the
A.C.T.U. that war-time was the tifne to
get in for their cut regardless of national
consequences they might have looked at
things in better perspective. As it is, the
bigger the war-time increase in wages the
less willing are wage-earners to pay
taxes or contribute to war loans. Full
evidence of this is seen in the frequent
union moves to have the tax on overtime
abolished. Wage earnings (as one lump
sum) in Australia have far outmatched
rises in prices and war-time increases in
taxes. Yet the A.C.T.U. wants still higher
wages! Price control cannot for ever
meet this inflationary situation.
* * * *
How quickly a people can slip away
from the land of realities! With the wide-
spread abolition of piecework in the
Commonwealth and the introduction of
minimum wages a thing principally of
the twentieth century, by the year 1944
we find demands by the A.C.T.U. hav-
ing little relation to the production by
wage-earners. Demands instead are being
made as a right, not as a condition of
maintained or increased production. Yet
the basic principle of piecework remains
the fundamental of production; there
must be a certain output from all hands
in a factory to justify the overall wages
paid. Originally the abolition of piece-
work aimed at making the young and
vigorous worker help to carry along the
older and perhaps slower man who might
have more responsibilities. Nowadays all
that is forgotten. The “Government” or
the “boss” is expected to carry everyone.
* * * *
From “Trade and Engineering,” pub-
lished by the “Times,” London:
Recently the Chancellor of the Exchequer
gave some information as to the rise in the
cost of living in various countries since
1938, as shown by an official index. In the
United Kingdom the increase is 29 p.c.,
while the average level of hourly rates of
wages is officially estimated to have been
44 or 45 p.c. The United States cost-
of-living index shows an increase of be-
tween 23 and 24 p.c., Canada 18 p.c., Aus-
tralia 25 p.c. In the latter two countries
the percentage wage rates were slightly
more.
The final comment of the journal just
goes to show how misleading compari-
sons between economic indexes in various
countries can be. The index of wages in
Australia is based on the living wage,
which is more of a fiction than the cost-
of-living index under present conditions.
While the c.-0.-l. index is made up of
many articles which are now unobtain-
able, and substitutes for them are often a
great deal dearer than the unobtainable
article, wages generally in Australia are
certainly not truly represented by the in-
crease in the basic wage either. The
money seamen, wharfies, slaughtermen,
coalminers, munition-workers and many
other unionists are now receiving, when
overtime and various “loadings” are aver-
aged with ordinary wages, represents far
more than 25 p.c. above the pre-war aver-
age. Though there are many people in
the Commonwealth whose income is
strictly in accordance with the basic wage,
the general result of the war from the
wage-earner’s point of view has been a
harvest of extra money. It is unlikely
that the increase of 44 p.c. to 45 p.c.
shown in the average hourly wages paid
in Britain is any greater than a similar
average taken in Australia. Whatever in-
crease has taken place in the Australian
cost of living, the vast increase in the
savings of the people show that incomes
have been far greater than outgo. And
this increase has been mainly in respect
of the “small man.” He doesn’t have to
pay 18s. 6d. in the £ taxation. Nor does
he, seemingly, feel obliged to put his
proper share into war loans. From the
point of view of numbers subscribing,
war loans in Australia have been a suc-
cession of failures.
* * * *
The board of the Mutual Life and
Citizens’ Assurance Co. (the M.L.C.),
Sydney, has called a meeting of share-
holders for Nov. 9 to approve a proposed
alteration in the articles of association to
allow policy-holders to participate in not
less than 85 p.c. or more than 95 p.c. of
the profits in both the Ordinary and In-
dustrial departments. This is a raising of
the minimum and maximum participation
by policy-holders in the I.D. by 5 p.c.
and the raising of the maximum in the
O.D. by 5 p.c. Permission is also being
asked to reduce the maximum ratio of
expenses chargeable to Section B (Indus-
trial department) from 45 p.c. of the total
income of that section to 33 p.c.
$ * * *
The need for price control in the early
post-war period is so vital that it is ex-
tremely sad now to hear charges
of bureaucratic perversion of the
principles involved. There have been
many uncontradicted allegations of the
“system” being used not to keep prices
down but to divert profits to the Treasury
or some other Government department.
It is true that even under stable prices
it has been possible for some businesses
to show greater profits, the reason usually
being increased turnover, fewer stock
losses, lighter overhead or smaller bad
debts. Australia should have had a
proper excess-profits tax to look after
war-time increases in business earnings,
Other countries, including Britain and
Canada, have an excess-profits tax system.
The provision should be statutory, not
arbitrary, and it should be administered
by the Taxation Department, not the
Prices Branch. Arbitrary action by civil
servants on the one hand and illegal be-
havior by trade-unionists on the other
are a feature of our current history under
Labor rule. Rafferty rules are super-
seding the rule of law.


THE SERVICE MAN
Landings Consolidated.
“Ek Dum”: The battle for Leyte was
almost over by the week-end.
The spearhead 24th U.S. Division, hav-
ing cleared out the Leyte Valley, in_the
centre of the island, to Carigarin, iiTtJie
north-west, took to the sea, and after a
voyage to Pinamopoan, seven miles to the
west, began the fight for the Ormoc
Valley. The result of this struggle will
be conclusive in Leyte;
The Japanese in that area were attempt-
ing to slice off a portion of the western
side of the island and form a perimeter
round it on the plains north-west of
Ormoc.
In pursuance of this plan the enemy
had succeeded in landing artillery and
transport, though some of his convoys
were driven away and others badly bat-
tered. With some of this material he
threw savage counter-attacks at the
Americans. These wfere beaten back
bloodily, according to General Mac-
Arthur’s communique ; and the assembly
areas on the plain were subjected through-
out the week-end to destructive low-level
strafing.
Nevertheless, the Jap is full of fight,
aggressive in night infiltration attempts,
and his air attacks at night add to the
strain on the troops.
Up and down the length of the Philip-
pines a great battle of bombers has been
raging. Over Negros and Cebu at the
week-end, during the bombing and straf-
ing of aerodromes, 57 enemy aircraft
were destroyed on the ground. Davao
aerodrome was heavily hit. And on Nov.
5 the Japanese reported a raid by 300
U.S. heavy machines on the Manila area
—mainly on Clark Field aerodrome.
During the week the Marianas were
raided by enemy bombers, which damaged
several warships and Saipan and Tinian
airfields, the airfields slightly. Thirteen
bombers were shot down. Tokyo has
made several nervous references to the
building of a Superfortress base on
Saipan.
Naval Aftermaths
Casualties in the Philippines naval
battle on the enemy side have been esti-
mated at 35,000, including several ad-
mirals. A U.S. Navy announcement on
Nov. 1 said that carrier-based ’planes
of the U.S. Third and Seventh. Fleets
between August 30 and Oct. 31 had de-
stroyed 2594 Japanese aircraft, and that
U.S. submarines had sunk an additional
destroyer, a large transport, three smaller
ones,. 11 cargo ships and a tanker. These
were in addition to a heavy cruiser and
two other cruisers, all three probably
sunk, along with a tanker and 90 enemy
afircraft destroyed in attacks on Luzon
by Admiral Halsey’s Third Fleet, reported
on Oct. 3L
A Washington communique says that
it is not intended yet awhile to disclose
the names of damaged ships of the Allied
fleets, since such information would be
of value to the enemy in estimating Allied
naval strength.
A “revised” Japanese communique
alleged that during the battle in Leyte
Gulf the Allies lost a battleship or cruiser
and three cruisers, and had three battle-
ships damaged.
General MacArthur, in a field order
issued on November 1, announced the
firm establishment of Allied forces on
Leyte and Samar and gave special praise
to the R.A.N. squadron, which, he said,
had behaved in accordance with the
highest traditions of the British Com-
monwealth.
Further details of the damage to
H.M.A.S. Australia show that she was
attacked about 6 a.m. by a bomber, which
apparently dived straight for her fore-
mast and seemed to explode in mid-air
right over her bridge.
It is significant that in their first radio
accounts of the battle the Japanese sang
the praises of “the glorious hero-gods of
Japan” who deliberately dived to their
deaths on the Allied ships, intending to
kill themselves in destroying the Allied
fleets. It was asserted that this suicide
technique was so successful that volun-
teers are being called for a “hero-god”
corps.
Commander Collins, R.A.N., who was
among the wounded on H.M.A.S. Aus-
tralia —now in dock at a Pacific base out-
side Australia —was doing well at the
week-end. He was suffering from con-
cussion, eye injuries and burns.
Unhappily, a further 11 of the 54 listed
as wounded have died or been reported
killed, among them Lieut.-Commander H.
P. Garrett (R.A.N.), Lieut. G. J. Greig
(R.A.N.) and Sub-Lieut. L. K. Debenham
(R.A.N.), bringing the total deaths to 30.
Singapore Raided.
“Ek Dum”: The expansion of the
South-east Asia Command’s power and
the extension of its striking range were
landmarked during the week by the trans-
fer of Sir Oliver Leese from the Eighth
Army. Men who have served under
General Alexander are now in com-
mand of army groups in all the prin-
cipal zones.
The British 36th Division, spearhead
of the North Burma forces, took Mawlu,
on the Irrawaddy railway, and its ad-
vanced units, supplied by air, have pushed
on some miles down the railway.
Superfortresses, the first used in
Burma, devastated Rangoon railway
yards and communications on November
3. They went under a powerful fighter
escort, and in view of the shortness of
the journey carried the heaviest bomb-
loads ever lifted in the Japanese war zone.
The natural corollary to the raid came
swiftly. In great perturbation, Tokyo
shouted on Sunday that Singapore had
suffered “a terror raid—the first of the
war.”
The news was confirmed officially some
hours later. The same Indian aerodromes
as were in use to bomb Burma were being
used to blast Singapore.
The bombs must have looked like wel-
come rain to A.I.F. prisoners in the camps
of Changi.
In China conditions go from bad to
worse, with the enemy inside Kweilin and
by-passing the town on three routes. The
Chiang-Stilwell affair remains the sub-
ject of a fierce controversy.
Still Formidable.
“Ek Dum”: Two men who should
know have come out with warnings that
complete defeat of Japan is still a far-
off event.
Mr. Churchill said in the House of
Commons that on military grounds alone
it would not be prudent to assume that
a shorter period than 18 months after the
destruction of Hitler would be required
for the final destruction of the Japanese
will or capacity to fight. And he could
not prophesy the close of the German
war “before the end of spring or even
early summer.” He said:
There is a possibility of some political
upheaval in Japan inducing a sudden sur-
render, but it would be most foolish to
count on this with a race of men of this
desperate and barbarous character.
General Blarney, always outspoken,
refused to believe that the Japs would
surrender when Germany was beaten. He
thought they would do what every other
patriotic people had done —fight:
We will have to go to their homeland
and fight them there. If we don’t do that
we won’t beat them. We will achieve vic-
tory only by dragging it out of the Jap’s
throat in his own country.
The Jap has the greatest capacity as a
soldier —he is ready to die; he wants to
die. Japan is 10,000 years later out of the
woods than we are. Because of this it will
be difficult to handle the 90,000 Japanese
by-passed in the advance on the Philippines.
The general added that the practice in
the Pacific War had been to push the
Navy forward with air support, push the
Japanese Navy further away, bring up
the army and seize an area ; then to bring
up equipment, build up airfields and get
ready for the next stage along the same
lines. In the Philippines we were on a
semi-continental land mass and events
would not have the same shape there.
There were large forces in the Philippines
and these could not be by-passed.
D. 0.1. Optimism
These remarks were in strong contrast
to those of some correspondents in the
Philippines. The Department of Informa-
tion took its place among the optimists
in “Facts and Figures of Australia at
War” for September:
The original Japanese force in the South
and South-west Pacific areas was believed
to be 250,000. Three months ago it was
estimated that all but 140,000 of these had
been eliminated, and this remnant was
neutralised in pockets from which there
is no escape. Today that figure is 90,000.
Australians the Maun Force
General Blarney proceeded:
Australians made the main force in the
Pacific zone from July, 1942, to December,
1943.
This “main force” is reckoned to have
had about 15,000 casualties up to June 30
last, including about 3000 killed. But it
was the chief instrument in wiping out
100.000 Japanese without trace and in
bottling up “this remnant” —actually
larger than the fighting forces of Mont-
gomery and Rommel put together at the
time of El Alamein. In fact, no Japanese
force ever has been encountered in the
South-west Pacific area without being
wiped out or escaping and becoming
trapped.
One Allied to 187 Japs
The Information Department again;
A statistical check of relative casualties ‘
in the New Guinea fighting reveals a ratio
of one Allied soldier killed to every six
Japanese. In the fighting after the landing
at Sansapor the ratio was one Allied soldier
killed to every 187 Japanese.
It was not so at Guadalcanal, Munda,
Kokoda, Buna-Gona, the Salamaua trail
or Finschhafen, nor yet at Betio, Saipan,
Malaya or Maungdaw. At all those
places the Japs, brought to bay, fought
savagely.
Yet in the comparatively small-scale
fighting which has taken place, 100,000
of the enemy have died of gunshot, ex-
plosives and disease —more than half as
many as Von Kesselring has lost in many
pitched battles of Italy, where he has had
up to 30 divisions, pitted against two of
the best full-sized Allied armies in the
world.
How They Died
In three months 50,000 Japanese in the
New Guinea-Sofomons area have per-
ished, and the “Japanese Eighteenth Army
(60,000 men) pocketed in the Tadji-
Wewak area has been eliminated as an
effective fighting force.”
If the Department of Information
wishes it to be inferred that the liquidated
50.000 died of starvation and disease it
can tell that yarn to its uncle. Austra-
lians recently on leave have told the writer
that the few Japanese they have seen in
recent raids on the north coast of New
Guinea have been well-uniformed, well-
equipped and obviously well-fed. There
is little chance of their starving in areas
where a stick of gelignite will get a bag
of fish, where taro and sago grow in
abundance, and tvhere animal as well as
vegetable food is in profuse supply with,
in some places, native labor in plenty to
help secure it.
The departmental map shows several
“escape routes” by which the enemy
could get away from northern New
Guinea, mostly leading through the wild,
snow-capped mountains of Dutch New
Guinea.
If they are “escape routes” they are
also supply routes for at least some of the
“pockets.”
It is useless to suggest that shipping
can be prevented altogether from reach-
ing these areas or transhipping cargoes
to hosts of small coastwise craft.
It is about time Australia and its De-
partment of Information accepted the
grim realities of the position.
Progress in Holland.
“Ek Dum”: Fighting in the Nether-
lands in the bleak, dripping North Euro-
pean November was in substance posi-
tional. It has become important to clean
up the French and Dutch coastal areas as
quickly as possible before the winter sets
in in earnest, and to open the ports so
that the best possible use can be made
of transport routes to pile up supplies
for the spring campaign which Mr.
Churchill now believes to be inevitable.
This is no easy task. Dunkirk is sur-
rounded by a vast moat of swamps pro-
duced by the cutting of the dykes, mak-
ing approach difficult from some angles
except in boats. Except for the narrow
strips along the coast north and south,
Dunkirk is virtually an island.
The Schelde pocket, with its moated
canals, had proved a hard nut to crack.
But by the week-end, after two
months of bitter fighting, this little
isolated enclave was completely cleared
of the enemy. The general commanding
the besiegers was captured, and the total
of prisoners was raised to 10,500. The
Canadian Army since October 6 had
liberated 850 sq. miles of territory and
taken 18,500 prisoners.
Across the Schelde, in the islands which
form the tongue of the broad river mouth,
fighting, wet, uncomfortable and peril-
ous, was still going on.
By October 31 the inner island, South
Beveland, had been cleared except for
insignificant pockets, and the drive across
the 150-yard-wide causeway to the outer
island of Walcheren had begun at dawn.
The Fight For Walcheren
Walcheren was largely awash. Little
of it had escaped the inrush of the waves
when the R.A.F. made its repeated
breaches of the dykes. But resistance did
not slacken. The enemy blew a tremen-
dous hole in the causeway near the Wal-
cheren end, so that, swarming along the
narrow strip of land between island and
island, the attacking Canadians could be
caught in the concentration of a wide arc
of 88’s fired almost point blank. Casual-
ties must have been heavy.
The conditions of the advance were
the more horrible because a typical
Netherlands autumn mist covered the
battle area from the Tilburg down the
Maas and into the islands at one stage.
By November 1 amphibious landings
on the southern side of Walcheren had
relieved much of the pressure. A thin
strip of the water-logged coastline along
the southern channel of the Schelde was
in British-Canadian hands. By the
afternoon it was stated from British H.Q.
that most of the steam-packet port of
Flushing had been cleaned up—its 20,000
inhabitants, if still there, must have been
in a pitiable condition. A second British
force —Royal Marines —was landed at
Westkapelle on a clear day near the outer
tip of Walcheren, under cover of the
heavy guns of H.M.S. Warspite and the
monitors Erebus and Roberts (the A.I.F.
knew Erebus’s twin sister very well off
North Africa ; she lies on the bottom
there). Then the boats went through a
hole in the broken dyke and put the
troops ashore supported by a gallant
light support flotilla whose ships
suffered heavy casualties —20 craft out of
25 sunk or put out of action.
Gun positions were blasted all night by
rocket craft and aircraft, but the weather
became too bad to allow accuracy of
fire. The enemy was fighting hard, and
when ordinary 88s ran out of ammuni-
tion 'was using his ack-ack guns against
British commando landing parties. Even
Breskens harbor, three miles across
the Schelde, from which the commandoes
had come, received occasional shells.
The Canadians, with a foothold on the
island at the eastern end of the cause-
way, were now winning their way for-
ward inch by inch.
Next day the enemy had been pushed
out of three parts of Flushing, house by
house and fort by fort. As in the
other areas, it was tough fighting. Far
different are these defences from those
encountered in Cherbourg, where the
hold was not nearly so desperate and
tenacious. German forts resembled those
of the German border —pillboxes resist-
ant to a couple of hundred pounds of
high explosives ; concrete and steel em-
placements, several feet thick, connected
with deep concrete or brick waterproofed
passages and screened by machine-gun
posts.
The Canadians were having a particu-
larly rough passage from these posts and
emplacements. For 36 hours the enemy
swept the causeway from South Beveland
with sheets of fire. But one by one the
guns which were harassing the Canucks
and the landing parties on Walcheren
were blotted out and silenced.
After several battles Flushing was com-
pletely controlled, the German com-
mander captured and the remaining 3000
to 4000 Germans pushed towards the
higher ground round Middelburg, in the
centre of the island.
By November 5 the Schelde’s southern
channel and the route to Antwerp were
virtually in British-Canadian hands. And
when the necessary dredging and repair
work has been done —as expeditiously as
possible—the Allies will have the use of
a port which rates as one of the two
largest on the North Sea coastline, and
which is less than 140 miles from Lon-
don.
All the fighting was not over, though
the British forces had linked and there
could be no doubt as to the issue.
Canadians who crossed to Tolen, north
of South Beveland, found it deserted.
On the mainland, with the taking of
Rosendaal, north-east of Bergen-op-
Zoom, and with the approach of British-
Canadian troops to within five miles of
the Maas, all the way inland on the main
reach across Holland to the Hollandses
Diep, it could be said that the main
assault on the Fortress of Holland was
beginning. *
The Holland Fortress
Into that close preserve, and perhaps
out of it further north, most of the
enemy troops below the Maas had escaped
under the steady pressure of the British-
Canadians, which was being exerted along
the lines predicted here last week—i.e.,
with the weight leaning towards the Nort
Sea, with a view to getting control ot the
Moerdyk bridge across the Diep, rather
than across the bridges of the Hedel an
Heusden further east.
The Fortress of Holland embraces the
coastal area of north and south Hollan
and the islands north of the Hollands ■
Diep, right up to Den Helder. Its
boundary begins at Muiden, on t
Zuider Zee, and runs southward to
Breukelen, then, a little east of Ltrec>
to the Vianen bridge across the Lek, Le *
dam, Coriqchem to the Waal, and fina >


Divorce Notices.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW SOUTH
WALES— In Divorce.
TO ELMER V. JONES a member of the United
States Forces.—TAKE NOTICE that STANLEY
ROLLER has filed a Petition for Divorce No. 1712 f t
1944 on the ground of the adultery of his ;
JANET MAXWELL ROLLER with you If you wish
to defend you may enter an appearance at tin
Divorce Office Supreme Court King Street Sydr
within four calendar months from the 17th
October 1944 and obtain a copy of the petition w.'
out charge from NORMAN NELSON & CO. Solicit-
Vincent Street Cessnock or from J. R. THOMAS Soli
citor 39 Martin Place Sydney.—(l.s.) C. K. BODI
Registrar in Divorce.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW SOUTH
WALES— In Divorce.
TO JOHN WILLIAM SMITH late of Leichhardt, -i?
TAKE NOTICE that MARGARET ELIZABE
SMITH has filed a Petition for Divorce No. 3357 of
1944 on the ground of desertion without just cause
or excuse for three years and upwards If you wish
to defend you may enter an appearance at the
Divorce Office Supreme Court King Street Sydney
by the First day of December next and obtain a
copy of the petition without charge from WILSON
& CLAP IN Solicitors 14 Martin Place Sydney.
DATED 31st day of October, 1944. — (1.5.), C. K.
BODY, Registrar.
Missing Friend.
JACK BASSETT NUNN 55605 formerly of 849
Glenhuntly Road Glenhuntly and of The Royal
Australian Air Force but now of parts unknown.—
TAKE NOTICE that your wife MARY ALICE NUNN
has instituted proceedings against you for nullity of
marriage alternatively for divorce on the ground
of wilful desertion for three years and upwards
Unless you enter an appearance at the Office of the
Prothon'cjary of the Supreme Court at Melbourne
on or before the First day of December 1944 the
case may proceed in your absence and you'.may
be ordered to pay the costs. In the event of your
entering an appearance you must file an answer with
the Prothonotary on or before the 10th day of
December 1944.—F.‘ L. BIRCH, 395 Collins Street
Melbourne Solicitor for the Petitioner.
CL I
am
to the Maas near the Diep. It is backed
all the way from sea to river by a canal.
The southern part of it is a maze of
difficult channels. The Germans in 1940
assaulted this southern part, which con-
tains The Hague, Rotterdam and Dor-
drecht, with parachute troops, who seized
the airfields and secured control of the
Moerdyk bridge. They also crossed the
Maas at Geertruidenberg, north of
Breda, and the Waal beyond it at
Brakkel and Gorinchem, after which
both these drives turned almost at right
angles to the west and followed the
direction of the river to its junction with
the Noord Canal, near Dordrecht.
Germans in 1944 retreated across the
river, leaving the country down to the
canalised Mark River inundated as far
as possible. On November 5 they held
only five small separated pockets south
of the Maas.
British, American and Polish units
secured bridgeheads across the Mark
early in the week, but the enemy was
able to hold their artillery and tanks
which attempted to make for the Moerdyk
bridge, of which the upper structures
must be in sight, while retiring across
the Maas and blowing up the Geer-
truidenberg bridge to the east. Geer-
truiden was in the hands of Canadians
and Poles on November 5. The enemy
had abandoned the town.
At the week-end the British at Herto-
genbosch, on the east of the advance,
struck towards the Hedel bridge over
the Maas, aiming at the Zalt Bommel
bridge across the Lek, further north.
They were attempting to proceed along
the main rail route to Utrecht and
Amsterdam, and were meeting with fierce
resistance. But they had gained two
miles beyond the Aftwaterings Canal,
and, fighting at close quarters with flame-
throwers and tanks, were halfway to the
Maas.
The Germans on November 5 reported a
fresh British attack at Arnhem, a natural
corollary to the Hertogenbosch drive.
American Offensives
Two were announced to have begun
after a fortnight’s preparation.
The First Army attacked on the edges
of the Hiirtgen Forest, south-east of
Aachen, which lies along the extremities
of high ground coming in from the south-
east. The objective seemed to be to clear
projecting high forest intrusions —pos-
session of which must have been a great
advantage to the enemy—on the flank of
the American salient, especially as the area
was served by a main road to Malmedy.
This road was badly needed by the
Americans. And capture of the high land
would assure a clear view over the broad
valley towards Diiren.
After the usual artillery barrage the
Americans pushed through the forest to
a clear area beyond which was more
forest. They captured the villages of
Gerester and Vossenach and reached
Hiirtgen itself.
This put them directly on the road to
Diiren, where the Malmedy-Hiirtgen road
links with that from Aachen and Esch-
weiler, up which U.S. troops advanced
in their last offensive. Thence, as one
broad highway, the two roads flow on the
30 miles to Cologne—or what is left of
Cologne, battered in its heaviest raid of
the war: its position was indicated at
night by illuminated pillars of smoke.
On November 4 the drive had captured
the little village of Schmidt, 16 miles in-
side Germany and just over the crest of
the hills, so that it overlooked the valley.
A strong German counter-attack had
blunted the American spearhead and
pushed it a little backward in the wound!
Later it was reported that the Ameri-
cans again had advanced and retaken
Schmidt.
The second U.S. attack was made on
the High Vosges, where the Americans
and French of the Sixth Army are push-
ing along the main southern route from
Nancy and Luneville towards Strasbourg.
French tanks and U.S. infantry stormed
Baccarat and several villages both south
and north of the town. This brought the
Allied troops within 45 miles of Stras-
bourg, the most important crossing place
on the southern Rhine.
The Germans appeared to attach more
importance to this drive than to that in
the north. It was said by more than one
commentator in Berlin that the Third,
Seventh and Ninth Allied armies were
massing for a drive against the Saar and
towards the Kaiserslauten Gap.
The south certainly is the most promis-
ing area in the next few months, because,
on the average, the weather is better there
and the spring breaks somewhat earlier —
the Battle of Verdun began in February.
Large - scale bombing of Germany*
notably Cologne, Diisseldorf and the
Ruhr and Westphalian communication
centres by the R.A.F., and oil refineries
and other more distant objectives by the
U.S.A.F., continued throughout the week,
during which about 200 Allied bombers
were lost.
The Luftwaffe at times put up a hard
fight, but on its worst day was reckoned
to have lost 208 machines.
A few flying-bombs landed in England
causing damage and casualties.
Campaign Results
With the campaign of 1944 closing, it
may be said that on every front it has
been a brilliant success, in the west
most of all. Nearly all France has been
liberated and all Belgium. The dreaded
landing operation, which was a gamble
whatever the preparation (at one stage
the fate of the invasion hung in the
balance), is well behind. The Germans
had been chased right across France and
compelled to retire within their main for-
tifications. Although the Russians have
penetrated a few miles into the island
section of East Prussia, the Western
Allies are the only ones who have their
feet on the soil of the main body of the
Reich. They have taken the first large
German city to fall into Allied hands.
Though they began their fight with
only a handful of men, whose numbers
and supplies had to built up across a
stormy 100-mile-wide channel, they have
taken more prisoners since June 6
than have been claimed by the Russians
since that date. It is the statistics of
prisoners which normally measure com-
plete victories. The totals released last
week: —
British Second Army .. .. 83,582
Canadian First Army .. .. 82,744
U.S. First Army .. .. 199,413
„ Third Army .. ~ 92,950
„ Seventh Army .. .. 50,916
„ Ninth Army .. .. 50,000
French First Army .. .. 57,939
F.F.I 20,000
637,544
Admittedly the quality of many of
these troops was low. Large numbers
of them were Russians and foreign con-
scripts or volunteers ; all the same, it is a
tremendous total for a force which until
the end of July consisted of only 20 to
30 divisions, confined in the main inside
a perimeter not much more than 100
miles long.
More revealing than anything • else
which has so far been available are the
pictures of the results of British bombin’g
and artillery fire, in which there is a fore-
taste of what is to come along the Ger-
man border when sufficient supplies have
been brought in to make wholesale use
of the same technique as was applied in
battle, but on a large scale.
These photographs, which are descrip-
tive of the British sector battles up to the
verge of the Falaise breakthrough to the
Seine, explain the relative lowness of
Allied casualties.
The whole centre of the town of St.
Lo along the river was turned into a vast
hole in which the river, diverted in its
course and blocked, spreads in a noisome
giant’s puddle.
Aunay-sur-Odon is literally and com-
pletely a rubble heap. No roof, no road-
way is visible. It is literally piled one
brick on another in a flat shapeless heap
with scarcely a post left standing. There
is one exception. In the centre stands
the church, its roof certainly damaged,
but the rest, even to its steeple, untouched*
amid acres of 100 per cent demolition all
round it.
Many other towns which saw fighting
—Villers Bocage among them —were
almost in the same condition.
Rain in Italy.
All southern Europe was drenched with
bitter autumn rain during the past week,
and not much progress was made.
As modest as he is able, General
Alexander said he was “rather disap-
pointed” with the average rate of pro-
gress in Italy—li miles per day com-
pared with 4} miles per day from Alamein
to Florence. But there was little real
ground for disappointment, seeing that
Kesselring’s 30 divisions had him almost
halted in a season in which all the ad-
vantages of communications and fortifi-
cation were on the enemy’s side.
Allied casualties since May 11 are esti-
mated at 116,150 against enemy casualties
of 194,000. General Alexander said the
enemy withdrawal had been “very good.”
Despite violent thunderstorms slight
gains were made in the suburbs of Ferli,
but the terrain is in such a condition as
to prevent substantial fighting off the
main roads.
Marshal Tito announced on November
2 that he had “reconquered the whole
Dalmatian coast” of Yugoslavia. Fine ;
but a few weeks ago the British found it
necessary to land a few hundred com-
mando troops to retake part of the
Albanian coast which a small German
force had torn from the hands of the
Partisans.
Greece is now virtually back in Allied
hands, and British troops are moving up
the central roads in the Fiorina region on
the rear of the enemy retreat.
On the Eastern Front.
“Ek Dum”: The great battle for East
Prussia appears to have eased off for the
time being, as does the Russian drive in
Latvia in the Libau region. In both places
the enemy resistance has been strong
enough to halt, and in some sectors to
throw back, the most powerful Russian
forces which have ever been used on so
short a length of front.
The attacks have been launched from
every angle. The Red Army made a frontal
attempt along the railway into the flat,
featureless farmlands forming the true
Insterburg Gap. In this region the Rus-
sians used huge forces of heavy tanks
and mobile artillery which, from the con-
fident air of Moscow Radio, were believed
to be sufficient to push through all de-
fences without trouble. It was ideal
ground for tank battles, scarcely ideal for
tank attack against fixed defences.
When the assault began it was found
that the great Russian barrages—made,
according to some Moscow accounts, with
a gun to a yard of front —had not
smashed the defences.
The whole front in depth was a maze
of concrete gun wells, hidden by turf
and heath and connected by underground
passages. When the tanks and mobile
artillery and infantry rolled over these,
guns rose from them and began blasting
the Russian rear. The accounts of the
underground escape facilities scarcely
build up faith in the Moscow-correspon-
dent conviction that the enemy is suffer-
ing the bloodiest losses of the war—•
4000 dead per day.
In the East Prussian Hills
Failing in the frontal attack, the Rus-
sians tried a slicing drive from the Goldap
region to the south-east of the Gap. Here
the terrain is different. South-west of
Goldap there is an island of hills in the
plain reaching north-west almost to Gum-
binnen. Behind it, across a narrow gap
is another series of hills, thickly forested
and rising up to nearly 1000 ft. These
reach nearly to the frontier facing
Suwalki, and to the sunken lakes and the
Ldtzen Gap, leading from Lyck and
Augustowo. North of Gumbinnen, there
is more hill land, not so high as that to
the south-east.
Thus the Germans have to defend here
only a gap between the two lots of hill
country about six or seven miles wide.
On this particular sector the enemy has
all the advantages in terrain from what-
ever angle the Russians approach—river
barriers, bog and hills, all where they suit
him best.
The so-called pincer (or outflanking)
move from the Narew is also at a con-
siderable disadvantage in terrain. And
on every East Prussian sector German
communications are out and away better.
The railways and roads at the disposal
of the Russians are mainly of. the level
of country in Australia, East Prussia has
one of the most intense road and rail
communication systems in the world—
almost as flexible anti copious as that of
Belgium.
But East Prussia must be subdued. The
Russians cannot bypass it unless the by-
passing involves the absolute smashing
of Germany. To attempt to reach Ger-
many through central Poland while the
Konigsberg area is in its present condi-
tion and able to draw great resources of
picked reserves —supposed to be dead
long ago on the Russian steppes —would
be like walking under a poised sledge-
hammer.
On Sunday the enemy alleged that he
had thrown the Russians out of positions
in the Goldap area and “cut off” those
in the town itself.
At Buda’s Gates
With their habit of forgetting battles
in the east in which all is not going as
well as it might, even when those engage-
ments are on a major scale, Moscow re-
porters have concentrated on the Russian
advance into Hungary.
After Debrezcen had been taken it was
a foregone conclusion that this advance
would continue to the Danube so soon
as the Russians had time to replace their
breakages and fill their gaps and bring
up fresh troops in place of tired ones.
There seems to have been no great re-
sistance as the advance proceeded. Last
week’s part of the campaign was
accurately described by one Sydney news-
paper as a “vigorous race” for Budapest.
The twin cities of Buda and Pest
—magnificent cities they are —lie on
either side of the Danube, which here
runs north to south through a winding
valley, flanked by country which is higher
and more hilly than that through which
the Russians have passed along the Tisza
Valley.
Buda is on the west bank of the river ;
Pest, which holds the Parliament Houses
and main governmental centres, is on the
east bank.
The Danube at Budapest is a. broad
fast-flowing stream, a very formidable
military barrier for defenders who care
to treat it as, such.
The Red Army approached Pest
through country which reminds the Aus-
tralian of parts of the Darling Downs
near the range, save that it is far better
watered and served with hydro-electric
power.
It is inhabited by a sturdy rural race,
as is most of Hungary —as fine specimens
of men and horses as will be seen any-
where in Europe. It is an obsession with
Leftist writers that the Hungarians are
all downtrodden serfs, starving miserably
in the interests of the great landowners.
If this is true starvation must be remark-
ably good for the physique.
At the week-end the Russians were
within gun range of the outer suburbs of
Pest; and unless the Germans have de-
cided to lay their main defences further
back towards the Vienna Gap, on a line
from Lake Balaton through the hills
of the Bakony Wald to the Beskidens,
along the Polish border, they may be able
to put up a stout defence of Buda, even
if they do not hold Pest. That is, if both
cities have not been abandoned: on
November 5 Moscow was confident that
both would be captured in a few hours.
Retirement to the defences of the
Vienna Gap, which lies in the region of
Bratislava —held for a time by Slovaks
who turned against the Germans, but aban-
doned —with the Little Carpathians on the
immediate north and the lake of Neus-
tedl and the Austrian Alps on the south,
would be a dangerous expedient, since it
is only 30 miles from Vienna. To reach
this point the Russians would have to
advance 90 miles from Buda.
About 40 miles further south, driving
through Keskejmet, the Russians are
approaching the Danube, opposite the
main road to Belgrade, which runs down
it on the western side. But here the
river is more difficult to cross than higher
up, being wider and with marshy banks.
The fighting during the advance from
the Tisza obviously has not been very
heavy. The Germans claim that the Rus-
sians have been using 12 infantry divi-
sions with seven tank divisions. But dur-
ing a week of unchecked advances only
about 13,000 German and Hungarian
prisoners were claimed by Moscow, in-
cluding the Hungarian Chief-of-Staff,
General Veres.


1ll!f
WmmmmA
wm
:v>n:
as®
iP
MB ■
-ar
O
3S&
SBWS
46°
MA®*
■
ii
i
feMmiltt!
SmfTi
iM
S?
lUi!
m
V
fl!f?fmv*mw i
\\SE PHILIPS
m
m
mm
-
tm
.M
s
v\\\
7
,
f&fskiiiitm
.
FIT A
PHILIPS
and SEE the differente
PHILIPS ELECTRICAL INDUSTRIES OF AUSTRALIA PTY. LIMITED
Sydney —• Melbourne Adelaide ■— Perth Brisbane
Your Dog
Are You Watching
His Health?
If your dog’s coat is dull, loose or ragged—if he
is listless, won’t eat or is out of sorts he may
be suffering from digestive disorders. Start him
on a course of BARKO Condition Powders.
Constant scratching is often a sign of Eczema.
Give him BARKO Condition Powdersand apply
BARKO Skin Lotion to the affected parts. Wash
your dog always with BARKO lodine Dog Soap.
Buy them from
all Chemists
BARKO
Give him
BARKO
CONDITION POWDERS 1/6
SKIN LOTION ... 2/9
lODINE DOG SOAP ■ 9d.
SPORTING NOTIONS
(Conducted by "PILOT")
Sirius firmed to Melbourne Cup
favoritism after his decisive defeat
of Peter and Martial Law in the Hotham
Handicap at Flemington last Saturday.
Ridden by his Cup jockey, D. Munro,
and carrying 31b. more than his Cup
weight, he ran the If mile in only a quar-
ter of a second outside the course record.
He met Peter 21b. better and Martial Law
91b. worse than Cup terms, and should
beat those horses again next Saturday.
Dark Felt won the Hotham-Cup double
last year, and, as Munro said after Satur-
day’s race, “I would pot swap Sirius for
any other Cup mount.”
Sirius, however, may be troubled to
defeat Claudette in the Cup. Claudette
finished a moderate fourth in the L. K. S.
Mackinnon Stakes after looking a certain
place-getter in the straight, but the race
was not run to suit her. It developed
into a sprint home, and Claudette, a one-
pace stayer, could not pace it with them
over the last furlong. Rider J. Thomp-
son and trainer D. Mcßae were satisfied
with the performance, latter stating that
he was confident of Cup success if there
were no recurrence of Claudette’s leg
trouble. Claudette is a genuine stayer
and drops 101 b. from the weight she car-
ried on Saturday.
Tranquil Star received another wonder-
ful reception after defeating Saint Warden
and Tea Cake in the Mackinnon Stakes.
Favorite at 6 to 4 on, it took her some
time to beat Saint Warden, but she was
running away at the finish. Her winnings
now total £22,240 and she is within £893
of Desert Gold’s Australasian stake-win-
ning record for a mare.
One of the ugliest and most prolonged
demonstrations ever associated with a
race at Flemington followed San Martin’s
15-to-l defeat of New Yorker and
Bootle in the Victoria Derby.
Demonstration was entirely unjustified,
San Martin, like several other horses
trained by L. Robertson, developed
influenza immediately after his previous
race, in which he conceded the first and
second horses, Three O Three and New
Yorker, 201 b. and 81b. respectively. He
recovered from that illness, but last week
bruised one of his feet and was lame for
a couple of days. As late as Friday there
were doubts about his running, and his
owner, V.R.C. committeeman G. R.
Nicholas, had only £1 on each way. In
addition, San Martin is one of the most
consistent horses in training* He has
started eight times for two wins, three
seconds, two thirds and once unplaced.
By St. Magnus from Asphodel, San
Martin was bred by his owner.
New Yorker would have finished closer
to San Martin had he not been forced to
cover a lot of extra ground during the
race, but little excuse was possible for
Bootle. Delina, a stable-mate of the
winner, finished a moderate fourth, but
she was running on, and should win the
Oaks next Saturday. Silver Rocks, one of
several “crocks” in the field, was the
medium of a betting plunge. From his
overnight price of 9 to 2 he firmed to 6
to 4, but died in his run, and finished
sixth after looking dangerous at the top
of the straight.
Because of two float mishaps, Rainbird
reached the course only 25 minutes be-
fore beating the unlucky Comedy Call
and La Patrice in the Wakeful Stakes.
She started favorite at 3 to 1, and, being
bred to stay, will be a danger in the
Oaks. Felstar, a 1500gns. colt by Fel-
crag from Black Olive, by Bardolph from
La Mosca, survived a protest after beat-
ing Lord Campbell (850gns.) and Nestor
(1200gns.) in the Maribyrnong Plate. Gay
Revelry showed that his Moonee Valley
win a week earlier was no fluke by easily
defeating The Bohemian and Leading
Man in the Cantala Stakes.
* * * »
With an attendance of 24,000 and a
tote turnover of £63,505, Rosehill had
cause to be well pleased with last Satur-
day’s meeting. Not so the bookmakers,
every winner being solidly backed'
Lagoon (J. O’Sullivan) and Bangster
led soon after barrier-rise in the Flying
Handicap, and while Bangster was done
with at the home turn, Lagoon went on
to score from Silverelda, who at the
judge’s box was doing slightly better
than the winner. Bangster hung on to
get third, and in line behind him were
Milanja, Bruce Wood and Triad. As it
was Triad’s best effort for some time
she is probably returning to form. War-
lock, who looked very bright, cut up
badly, and it was the same with Magi.
Kiaree’s (Bartle) Cumberland Handi-
cap win was not so easy as his backers
anticipated. Prince coming from sixth at
the turn to run him to a half-length.
When Haripur headed Chatham’s Choice
at the top of the straight he looked a
possible winner, but died right out after
Kiaree passed him a furlong from home.
In addition to his rider losing his whip,
Streamford struck trouble in the straight,
but his third was sufficiently good to
suggest that he will win at middle dis-
tances, Orderly was not dangerous, and
temporarily may have had enough. The
time, 2.4 J, equalled Silver Standard’s
record for the track.
Titan’s stock look like giving F. W.
Hughes many wins this season and next.
Tactician won for him at Randwick, and
in the colts and geldings’ division of the
Two-year-old Stakes at Rosehill Tiber
(Swinton) led into the straight, and then
stalled off My King, who looked to have
a chance of beating him commencing the
last furlong. The favorite Toulon ran
third, but though always one of the lead-
ing division never quite looked like win-
ning. Deed (by Hua) ran well and
Metronome (by Seven Fifty) fairly.
Courtship (N. Wilson) made a run-
away affair of the fillies’ division of the
Two-year-old Stakes. First out, she was
quickly clear of Fragile, Lady Talking
and Merry Avon and eventually won by
six lengths from Belle Femme, with
Merry Avon third, in a second faster
time than Tiber won his division. She
equalled the course record of 54|. Cost-
ing 1550gns. as a yearling, she is by im-
ported Agincourt (son of Bosworth) from
Happy Returns by Chief Ruler, and,
trained by F. Dalton, is the first horse
raced by S. J. Fields, Fragile, a half-
sister, by Brueghel, to the hurdler Harley,
was fourth, and is an improver.
Yaralla’s sister Kardinia displayed a
deal of pace in the Maiden Highweight
by leading to the turn, but she then
started to shift and, getting on to the heels
of Lavaine, caused interference to Sar-
chon and Loyal March, who respectively
ran second and third. Deben-
ture (G. Bougoure) finished so strongly
that it would be impossible to detract
from the merit of his win. He was tenth
at the home turn. Willawa and Moresby
were nearest the place-getters, and the
latter may yet act up to his early promise.
Lavaine was well backed, but though
prominent to the straight entrance again
finished weakly. Debenture is by J. R.
Smith from Heriani by Heroic.
Strathdarr (W. Cook) outclassed his
Three - year - old Handicap opponents.
Kara Pasha and Scotch Gift were the
early leaders, but Strathdarr took charge
immediately the straight was entered, and
that was the end of it. The minor places
were filled by Invictus and Gay Lovat,
both of whom made up a lot of ground
over the last three furlongs. Waratah
headed the unplaced lot. He is by Double
Remove.
Precise ran up to track form in the
Parramatta Handicap, and setting up a
definite lead'at the half mile increased it
in the straight. Chinook was next to
Precise for a long way, but weakened in
the straight, finishing fifth. Silent ran
well to beat Babillard for second money.
Others prominent at the finish were Cock-
crow, Merrimba and Cordale. It was a
soundly-run race, the time being only
three-quarters of a second behind the
Rosehill nine furlongs record.
As Cup day draws nearer possibilities
for the big race appear to be lessening
Sinus should again beat all his Hotham
Handicap opponents, of whom Peter, with
51b. off his back, may be most dangerous.
Accounts of the race suggest Peter’s rider
was over-anxious on Saturday. If so, that
is unlikely in the longer race. Martial
Law is evidently a better stayer than
previously supposed, but he meets Sirius
91b. and Peter 111 b. worse. Sydney’s
representatives. Grand Fils and'Two’s
Company were below Cup form.
It was asking a lot of Claudette to win
the L. K. S. Mackinnon Stakes, and the
race did not suit her. Nightbeam, who
would have been my outright selection,
developed lameness last week, and at the
time of writing Lawrence’s recovery
seems doubtful, though on Monday
Robertson was more hopeful.
The Victoria Derby winner must
always be given a Cup chance, and San
Martin ran out the mile and a half in
such good style with 8.10 that 7.6 should
not seriously trouble him over the longer
distance. Up to the end of last week
Mayfowl had shown nothing of account
in his work and, more than anything else,
the fact of Breasley being his rider would
seem to account for his still being fairly
prominent in the betting quotations.
Cream Puff is not attractive. Queen
Midas and Huntingdale may be possibili-
ties, but I shall not go beyond Sirius or
San Martin for the probable winner.
Sydney businessman S. E. Chatterton’s
claim for a return of the money he paid
for the Maoriland colt Rajputana was
decided in his favor by a Palmerston
North jury last week. Misrepresentation
as to soundness was alleged, and while
some Maoriland trainers said they could
see no defect in the colt and that he gave
promise in his work, the jury evidently
favored the opinions of those Sydney
trainers who, after his arrival here, said
he would not stand training. One thing
probably certain is that Chatterton will
not again be tempted to purchase any
youngster principally on the strength of
advertisement.
* * ♦ *
It is anticipated there will be a rush
of totalisator business at Flemington on
Saturday. To meet it there will be 66
issuing windows in the paddock, 15 in the
members’ enclosure, 39 on the hill and
20 or so on the flat.
# * He *
Betting was never heavier in England
than this year, cabled news stating that
totalisator betting on dogs alone was
over 40 millions up to the beginning of
October. It is the same in America and
Australia. There were never more
women betting in this country than at
present. In the queues in the official
stand at Randwick women greatly out-
number men, and it is probably the same
with the main totalisator in the paddock.
Miscellaneous
For once there were no cynical shouts
at Leichhardt when George Elliott boxed
Cliff Bowen, for these middleweights en-
gaged in a real fight. Bowen led with
rights, a mistake against a ring-wise
fellow like Elliott, whose counter-punches
were effective. An accidental head-colli-
sion opened Elliott’s left eyebrow in the
eighth, but despite the injury Elliott out-
pointed Bowen up to the final bell, floor-
ing him in the twelfth. Pearson’s verdict
for Elliott was indisputable.
Vic. Caltaux, the Maoriland welter-
weight, is game and tough, but that is all,
and it wasn’t enough when he met Vic
Patrick at the Sydney Stadium. Some-
body discovered that Patrick was nearly
knocked out in the third. Actually, he
was never in trouble. Caltaux came in
swinging punches from all angles. About
99 per cent, missed, whereas Patrick’s
punches seldom failed to connect. The
Maorilander’s right eyebrow was gashed
open in the second round. Despite this,
he did rather well in the third, but thence-
forward it was all Patrick. Solid lefts had
the visitor’s right eye swollen like a
balloon in the seventh, but the eighth
found the plucky fellow attacking till
Patrick punched him into one comer and
another, and had him so badly beaten
that the referee intervened.
V.R.C. SELECTIONS FOR SATURDAY
By Our Melbourne Representative.
MELBOURNE CUP.
Claudette 1
■ Sirius 2
San Martin 3
OAKS STAKES.
Delina 1
Rainbifd 2
Comedy Call 3
By “PILOT.”
MELBOURNE CUP.
Sirius 1
San Martin 2
Peter 3
FOR MOOREFIELD.
(Before acceptances .)
By “PILOT."
Trial Stakes: Paul, 1 ; Goshawk,
2 ; Massena, 3.
Juvenile Stakes: My King, 1 ;
Deed, 2 ; Tiber, 3.
Nursery Stakes: Courtship, 1 ;
Fragile, 2 ; Northern Pearl, 3.
Flying Handicap: Hauteur, 1 ;
Cooringwang, 2 ; Lagoon, 3.
Victoria Park Handicap: Precise,
1 ; Craigie, 2 ; Silent, 3.
Three-year-old Handicap: Bel-
tana, 1 ; Prince Galahad, 2 ; Wara-
tah or Princess Annabel, 3.
Welter Handicap: Bestow, 1;*
Omapo, 2 ; Denton, 3.


Women's Letters
From Melbourne
Derby Day dawned sultry with a sullen
sky and a strong high wind. In spite of
the weather, women racegoers put on
their best bibs and tuckers and made
Remington racecourse gay and festive.
Linen suits in lovely pastel tones made
their appearance—cut on slim tailored
lines they are ideal for race wear. Brown
had a day out and was particularly smart
when allied with aqua-blue, dusty pink or
beige. One smart racegoer wore brown
with lime-green accessories, and a very
smart London tan linen outfit was a joy
to behold. Black, of course, had its ad-
mirers, but in most cases was allied with
some bright color or with white. An
attractive black bolero suit was worn with
a heavy white linen lace blouse and small
white lace hat.
Lots of spotted materials were seen.
Mrs. Ross Grey Smith, who entertained a
small party at lunch in the committee
room, chose a brown, spotted in beige,
and with it wore a wide-brimmed brown
baku straw hat. Mrs. Noel Dixon, one
of the young matrons, set off her blonde
beauty with a cyclamen frock, over which
she wore a smart navy-blue coat. Her
chic hat was a skull cap of cyclamen linen,
to which was (attached a wide frill of the
same material which hung to her
shoulders. Another attractive lass wore
a huge cerise straw Mexican sombrero
with a high-pointed crown with her
simple grey frock. Major-General
Rupert Downes and his wife, in navy-blue
coat worn over a blue and white frock,
were with their two daughters. Mrs. John
Howse also chose navy blue with white,
and Mrs. James Campbell’s cool suit of
pink and white patterned silk was worn
with a large white hat. Admiral Hyde’s
widow wore a pink-and-white-patterned
frock under her navy coat, and her navy
hat was tied under the chin with yards of
veiling. Mrs. Cecil Raphael was one of
the smart women who wore grey. Her
grey suit was checked, and with it she
wore red accessories.
Hats still continue to be the focal
point in all dressing. Many outfits were
lifted out of the realm of simplicity to
smartness _by reason of the hat worn.
With a simple black frock, a stunning
hat in pale-blue felt, crowned with ostrich
feathers and with two wide tails of match-
ing moire ribbon hanging down the
wearer’s back, was worth a second glance.
Mrs. W. B. Bowring wore black with
silver-fox furs. Her small hat featured a
tiny brim and a high, upstanding crown
of white straw and was finished with veil-
ing. Mrs. W. Purves’s plum-colored suit
was trimmed with grey Persian lamb,
and her hat was in the same tones. Her
sister, Miss Florrie Green, wore black and
silver foxes. Some women came to the
Derby with heads swathed in chiffon
scarves, while others tucked their hair
into a snood. Many other women had
the doubtful pleasure of chasing their
hats down the lawns when a sudden gust
removed them from their rightful place.
With the Court in mourning there was
no vice-regal party, and the committee
boxes, usually so full, remained empty
practically the whole afternoon.
Mrs. Walter Elliot has captivated Mel-
bourne. After her short speech at the'
civic reception given in her honor Lud
Mayor Nettlefold said “Never has a more
vital or interesting talk been given within
the four walls of this Town Hall.”
Mrs. Campbell, Lady Mayoress, re-
ceived the guest. Mrs. A. Dunstan, wife
of Victoria’s Premier, in a natty blue suit;
Mrs. Herbert Brookes, who had met Mrs.
Eliot in Sydney, and the Angliss lady
assured Mrs. Elliot of Australia’s loyalty
to the Empire and of Australians’ desire
to learn from her what had been done
during war years for the youth of Great
Britain.
The reception rooms were ablaze with
colorful flowers,, and Lady Cross, who
has Mrs. Elliot as house guest, went home
with a bunch of roses matching in beauty
the ones which had been presented to
Mrs. Elliot. The distinguished visitor is
having a whirlwind tour much on the
same lines as the one planned for Mrs.
Roosevelt. Kindergartens, social clubs
and women’s services have all been
looked over, and when Mrs. Elliot re-
turns to England she will have seen much
more than the ordinary visitor to these
shores.
Following in the footsteps of large
firms in the Harbor City, Georges, Ltd.,
have fitted out a small but well-equipped
art gallery. Knight Robert Knox, at the
opening, commended the action of the
directors. Many well-known Melbourne
artists exhibited one or two of their
works. Rita Findlay was on the receiv-
ing line welcoming the guests, her frock
blue, of the shade which highlights her
silvery hair. A smart chapeau and lynx
coat completed the ensemble. Jo Rienits,
smart in brown and olive green, and
Dolly Kemmelfield, back in the social
whirl again, were among the guests who
accepted strawberries and ice-cream.
Laurie Thomas, in his naval uniform,
was an interested spectator.
Four years ago a few girls in Mel-
bourne got together and formed what
later became known as the Business
Girls’ War Service Bureau. The bureau,
in those four years, has raised over
£5OOO for various war charities. The
bureau’s pet charity is the P.O.W. Fund,
which has received each year a cheque
for £lOOO. Betty Stewart, here pic-
tured by Broothorn, is the busy
secretary, and she is very proud of
the work done by the 250 members.
These girls raise all the money in their
spare time. “Fantasy On Ice” was their
big effort this year, and £lOOO was in the
bag as a result of the hard work they
put into it. Members raise money by
holding house-parties, and every fort-
night these girls entertain 200 servicemen
at a “gala dance.”
The bureau was one of the first
auxiliaries in Melbourne to “adopt” a
ward at Heidelberg Military Hospital.
Every Tuesday night members (on a
roster system) visit this ward, taking with
them fruit, cigarettes and the like.
The Naval Convalescent Home at St.
Kilda has also a share in the thoughts
of bureau members, and each month a
concert party entertains the patients there.
An ambulance has been presented to the
Army, and is “on active service.” A
wheel-chair to Heidelberg M.H. and a
clock to Navy House are among bene-
factions. In fact, there is probably no
organisation in'Melbourne looking after
servicemen that has not received a gift
from these girls. When, in 1942, the
bureau sponsored a popular-girl con-
test, raising £2OOO, Betty Stewart won
with £7OO to her credit. Louise
Stagoll, executive of a film firm, and with
two sons at school, is a hard-working
vice-president of this organisation, of
which Mrs. F. Chamberlain is president.
Hallow’een was celebrated in tradi-
tional U.S.A. style with extra fancy
trimmings at the American Red Cross.
The Rainbow Room, where dinner was
served, was decorated with huge masks
and fierce black cats; oranges with
amusing faces were on the tables, and
Chinese girls in the garb of old China
welcomed the hundreds of Allied service-
men who came to the party. Ching Ling,
the chef, dished up a meal which
included long soup, bar lar darp sooey
(chicken, pineapple and vegetables), rice
and dim sims. Miss Willie Fry, an
American Red Cross worker who hails
from Richmond, Virginia and who, be-
fore the war, owned a gift shop and
taught dancing, was in charge of the fun
and games in “Carnival Town.” Here,
the walls adorned with witches on
broomsticks, refreshments were served
in tents by girls in sun-bonnets and pina-
fores.
Later there was an exhibition of folk-
dancing. The tempo of the entertainment
was a little faster in the “sports room.”
Here the men had great fun with “apple-
bobbing,” the apples being candied, which
made them all the harder to manage.
Hill-billy music was provided, and dough-
nuts and cider as refreshments helped
maintain the mountain atmosphere. Mrs.
Judd Holt, a member of the U.S.
Women’s Auxiliary Corps, was respon-
sible for the atmosphere of the party, and
assisting members of the U.S.W.A.C.
were Mrs. Wilfred Race and Mrs. C. W.
McKay.
From Sydney
That live wire Mrs. Walter Elliot
sparked along one day last week seeing
and visiting C.W.A. centres of activity.
In the morning she called on the Asso-
ciation’s Handicrafts Department in The
Bulletin building. There she was very
interested in the spinning and weaving
and toy-making. President Mrs. E. A.
Coghlan received Mrs. Elliot, who was
accompanied by Mrs. Jack Garry, Mrs.
Phil Ashton and the Francis Anderson
lady. The sheepskin vests workroom in
Endeavour House proved absorbing.
Here supervisor Mrs. Basil Foulds
showed Mrs. Elliot how to use the port-
able shearing machine for trimming
the skins from which the sheepskin vests,
gloves and so on are made. In the
afternoon the visitor from England was
guest of honor at a reception at the
C.W.A. Servicewomen’s hostel in Bays-
water-road, Darlinghurst.
Mrs. G. L. Byth came down to the
N.C.W. conference in Sydney as president
of the Queensland N.C.W.; she returns
as president of the Australian National
Council of Women. This means that
Brisbane will now be headquarters
address. Mrs. Byth succeeds Ruby Board,
who has been Australian president for
the last two years. Mrs. Byth is a
graduate of Sydney University. Her
husband is the City Solicitor of Greater
Brisbane.
Instead of holding debates as to youth
welfare after the war the St. Vincent
de Paul Society has hopped in and is
doing something about it now. With a
view to giving young lads from the
country and lads without parents a bright
home in pleasant surroundings, the society
has bought an old home at Randwick
and called it Chanel House. To prevent
boys becoming delinquents is much
better, the committee thinks, than to
rescue them. Already there are many
young guests in residence at Chanel
House, which will be officially opened
by Archbishop Gilroy on Saturday,
November 18.
Sheila Larkins and Dr. Lincoln Kelly
are among the newly-engaged. Sheila’s
father was Dr, Nicholas Larkins, of the
eastern suburbs, and Lincoln’s father was
Dr. Dan Kelly, as well known to dwellers-
on the north side of the Harbor as the
Mater hospital, with the development of
which he had been associated from its
very modest beginnings. Dr. Lincoln
Kelly is now resident at the Orange Base
Hospital. This photograph of Sheila
comes from Norton Trevaire.
The sixth yearly meeting of the
Travellers’ Aid Society was a cheerful
record of work well done. Over 34,000
travellers have been helped on their way
by T.A.S. during the year. There was no
change of executive, as everyone and
everything are making one perfect har-
mony. Thomas Gordon and Heath
Burdock were the speakers. The meeting
was held in the board room of Peapes,
Ltd. The Lodge, the new wayfarers’ inn
started by the society, is proving popular.
At the moment it houses a company of
Australian wives of American husbands
—they are waiting for ships to take them
to the land of their adoption by marriage.
So seldom comes a bidding to the cock-
tail hour that the invitation from the
A.B.C. merits an investment in one of
those giddy little half-hats with a rose
above the ear. A sign of the times is
that the invitation is typed on a single
sheet of paper. That’s true war-time
economy. The Alexander Gordon lady
and the Sydney Symphony Orchestra
committee will welcome guests to studio
210 in Broadcast House on Thursday,
November 9, from five o’clock onwards.
Libations will be poured (vegetarian or
otherwise) in honor of Prof. Bernard
Heinze.
Dr. Woods, of Cobbers renown, is
dated, if anywhere within cooee of Syd-
ney on December 1, to open an exhibi-
tion of ballet costume, design and his-
tory. This is being arranged by the Ballet
and Theatre Club, and will be held in
Cowell’s White House in George-street.
The collection includes a library of ballet
literature lent by a Sydney man. Nijin-
sky enthusiasts will grow dewy-eyed over
the paste buckles he wore when he danced
in “Pavilion d’Amide.” Concurrent with
the exhibition there will be a night of
ballet at the Independent Theatre. Here
Liliana Hardwicke will direct a pupils’
demonstration, and there will be a pro-
gramme of divertissements by Tamara
Tchinarova, Ria Kousnetzova and
Stephanie Edye.
The Sydney girl, hundreds of her,
danced along with vague, regardless eyes,
as Keats expressed it, till Hallowe’en had
turned to All Saints’ Day. Not that their
minds were set upon the rites of that
eve. Except in the mystic signs about
the walls, biting apples on strings,
the other features of the ritual beloved
of older countries were unobserved. The
American Service Club in Phillip-street
threw a party of great dimensions, to
which the girls went in masquerade, and
at which the whole scheme of decoration
was tinged With the supernatural.
In the hall of Christ Church, St. Laur-
ence, the evergreen Wednesday night
dance club for servicemen (now held on
Tuesdays) held yet another Hallowe’en
revel. The hall was crowded out, and the
foundations gritted their teeth over the
shocks they were called upon to bear
during the broomstick dance. Woe betide
the lass who danced along with “vague, re-
gardless eyes” in this witches’ brew! The
high-stepping moment of this was the
leap over the broom-stick. The catch was
that if the dancer was in mid-leap when
the music stopped he or she was out. It’s
a splendid game for mid-winter in Alaska.
Mrs. Ben Edye hostessed the dance, and
there were dozens of pretty girl partners
for the boys.
N.S.W. women’s chess championship
this year saw seven contenders six
matrons and a miss. Three former cham-
pions stood Out, Of these Mrs.
Lajos Steiner (formerly Edna Kingston)
held the title for six years without losing
a single game, and is still probably the
best woman player. She plays third
board in the metropolitan A team, led
by her husband, and wins most of her
games. This is a height reached by no
other woman player in masculine com-
pany. She lost her title to then 17-year-old
Miss Karmalsky, daughter of two Russian
medicoes. Deep in her own medical career
and also married Miss Karmalsky has been
too busy to re-enter championships, but
still plays fourth and fifth board for the
University team, of which her husband,'
B. Y. Mills, is a second -to champion C. J.
S. Purdy. Mrs, Trahair won last year,
but the serious illness of her husband,
Dr. Trahair, kept her out of the 1944
argument. Mrs, Redies, who has been
one of the high-ups in the championships
year after year and leads Mosman B
team, emerged triumphant, and is the
present holder of the State’s women’s
chess championship,
Sydney ballet students are already on
their toes in expectation of the arrival
of Kathleen Danetree, examiner for the
Royal Academy of Dancing. Kathleen
has been examining almost continuously
for the past four years, and this will b
her fourth tour of Australia. During th
war years she has travelled through
Canada, Maoriland, Australia and South
Africa by ’plane and train, and once o n
a transport carrying some hundreds of
German prisoners of war. Kathleen i
now in Perth, and will be passing or re
jecting Sydney entrants from the first
to the 16th of December. Fellow-judge
will be Joan Burnett, formerly of the
Markova-Dolin ballet.
Friends had scarcely simmered down
after the announcement of the engage-
ment when good-looking Mrs. Margaret
Collins, widow of Flight-Lieut. John
Collins, R.A.A.F., of Beaudesert (Q.), and
Lieut. Pierre Mann, R.A.N.V.R., were
married in St. Mark’s at Darling Point.
Bride’s parents are the R. C. Hagons, of
Edgecliff; the ’groom’s are the E. F.
Manns, of Woollahra. He and the other
members of his family were in France
at the time of the German invasion, and
just managed to get on one of the last
ships to England. A family reception at
the home of the bride’s parents followed
the ceremony. The wedding frock was
powder blue, and with it was worn a
small upturned hat. Lieut. John Limke,
A.1.F., of South Australia, was best man.
Ruth Freddy, already known in every
newspaper office for her activities in
regard to the A.C.F., has been appointed
publicity officer to the Fund. Her office
is on the third floor, Trust Building, where
the Revenue Branch of A.C.F. is in-
stalled.


-Ik a duM ot liS own
LEA & PERRINS
invite you to listen to a
session of fun and fancy at
12.30 p.m. every Sunday from
2GB.
HEALTH AHD FREEDOM FROM
CRUEL ACHES AHD PAIHS!
NOW A LIVING
ADVERTISEMENT FOR R.U.R.
The body in health is a marvel-
lous piece of mechanism, but
torn by the aches and pains of
rheumatism and similar dis-
orders it makes life miserable in
the extreme. The case of Mrs.
Mollle Neimann, via Maldon,
Victoria, is one in point. She
found in R.U.R. the answer to
a life of pain and torture and
now she writes:—
“Having benefited so much by your
treatment for Rheumatism, I am
only too happy to help you to con-
tinue to carry on the good work you
are doing. To bring back>health and
freedom from the cruel aches and
pains of Rheumatism, etc., is truly
a divine gift, and I lie cosy in bed
at night now and thank God that I
was advised to take your R.U.R.
“I am one of your living advertise-
ments. I have got rid of all the
Rheumatism X had and am feeling
years younger.”
R.U.R. owes its success to the com-
monsense nature of its eliminative
and toxic-removing properties. It has
achieved many recoveries equally mar-
vellous as that of Mrs. Niemann. It is
the only remedy which at the same
time contains a laxative, liver stimu-
lant, kidney cleanser, blood purifier
and acid corrective. R.U.R. is there-
fore truly a five-fold remedy, praised
by thousands. R.U.R. is bound to do
you good.
Take R.U.R. regularly for a while.
Smaller size, '4/-; the money-back
guaranteed full treatment, 7/6.
Obtainable at chemists and stores
everywhere.
nwnnv-vg%wT arm*
: MmM VMMM .*?. M v JtmMMMm.
ẅ
■
V
OF
Oil
YOU
EVEN
HAVE
MAY
PYORRHEA
i
Often tends to Shrinking gums—Loss of Teeth
At tills very moment YOU.
yourself—nb matter what your-
age or how sound and firm your
teeth may seem—may be a vic-
tim of Pyorrhea and not know
It. So beware of even slightly
tender, bleeding gums t These
are often signs of Pyrrohea
Neglect it —and horrible, shrink-
ing gums and actual loss ol
teeth may be the results.
Help Guard Against Pyorrhea
This Tested FORHAN Way.
Massage your gums and brush
your teeth twice dally with
Forhan’s
1. It stimulates gums to do
firmer, thus able to ward oil
this terrible infection.
2. Brightens teeth to their natu-
ral sparkling brilliance.
3. Helps remove acid film that
often starts tooth decay.
Remember—Porhan’s
the only dentifrice
containing R. J. Por-
han’s (D.D.S.) spe
clal Antl-Pyorrhes
astringent. Start
using Forhan’s for
your teeth and
gums to-day.
m
m
Poes BOTH Jobs Cleans Teeth —Saves Gums
Price 2/4. Extra large tube, 3/6.
Australasian Agents: THE SHELDON DRUG CO. PT2. LTD.. Sydney.
SMOKE-OH!
“Before he had been a day in the job the
new clerk had kissed one of the typists. He
was fired.”— “Sun.”
Despite his protest that he was just a
fresh employee.
“Visiting servicemen are not always sincere
in their demonstrations of affection.”
—Dorothy Dix.
He was a swell technician,
But it caused her lots of pique
To find his sole ambition
Was to practise his technique.
Ray.
4* 4* 4* 4*
“For Sale —Two Royal Doulton Dinner Plates,
15../0000/- each.”— Suburban weekly.
Dinner or taxi plates?
4* 4* 4* 4*
Saving Grace.
Observe the fulsome epitaphs in verse
That tombstone poets write and even
sell;
As “poetry” one can’t imagine worse,
Although, of course, as fiction they
excel.
F. M.
A moral certainty is not necessarily
associated with ethical conduct.
4* 4* 4* 4*
“Wanted, person 45, for cleaning h’dressing
salon and washing towels, one per week.”
— “Randwick-Coogee Weekly” (N.S.W .).
The laundry is just thrown in.
4* 4* 4' 4*
“While playing cricket, young Michael was
struck on the back of the head.”
—‘‘Australian Journal.”
Evidently he couldn’t face the bowl-
ing.
4* 4* 4* 4»
“Giving evidence in the Dobell case a doctor
declared that the famous portrait apparently de-
picted a corpse.”— Daily paper.
And what a post-mortem it’s been
having!
4* 4* 4* 4*
Outclassed.
When seeking winners on the flat
(This privilege costs one-and-three)
I met old John Fitzboodle-Platt,
A member of the A.J.C.
And flabbergasted to espy
A nizam in this humble sphere
Instead of over yonder, I
Demanded: ‘‘Say, what brings you
HERE?”
He turned and gazed across the straight
And with expressive eyes and hands
Invited me to contemplate
The paddock’s teeming lawns and
stands.
‘‘ln view,” he said (his tone was gruff
And crab), ‘‘of the increasing tide
Of coves who get in on the cuff
There isn’t room to breathe inside.”
P. O. M. C.
♦Jo
“Have you a file for menus in your kitchen?”
— “Women's Weekly.”
It’s a good idea! Husbands can then
have their pick.
4* 4* 4* 4*
“He had learned the lecture like a parrot, but
was very proud of the way he had delivered it.”
—Biographical item.
Cocky, as it were.
Sunshine Harvesters.
“Japanese chemists have been decorated for
inventing a new food. The basis is mould taken
from rotting .wood; sawdust and starch are
added, and the mixture is ‘cemented and
seasoned with sunshine.’ ” — Cable.
One of the chemists, Ito Kumagutsa,
has been awarded the Most Exalted
Order of the Imperial Pig’s Whisker, 7th
Class, for his brilliant research work in
connection with the sunshine portion of
the new food.
Hon. Kumagutsa put in fifteen months
of intensive experimenting before he suc-
ceeded in cutting up the sunshine into
small slabs and putting it through a minc-
ing machine to get it into the right con-
dition for use as seasoning. The intricate
nature of this work may be gauged by
the fact that each ray had to be husked
separately beforehand and put through a
steam-bending process under heavy pres-
sure to rid it of undesirable globules.
By de-vitaminising the rays, subsequent
shrinkage when they got in the tins with
the other ingredients was obviated.
As the handling of strong sunshine re-
quired too great a muscular exertion and
also had a deleterious effect on the ex-
perimenter’s weak eyes, Hon. Kumagutsa
at first used only that debilitated sunshine
which seeped through during eclipses of
the sun. However, trying to separate
moonbeams from sunrays caused so
much absenteeism among his assistants,
due to all the splinters they got when
handling the beams, that this was found
to more than offset the advantage of
working with weaker sunshine.
The inventor overcame the difficulty
by using the late afternoon sun. This
was found to be economically sounder ;
the rays being of greater length than
when the sun was directfy overhead at
j™ d^^J reater of sunshine could
be garnered per man-hour
11 developed, however, that even using
w if a *^ a^erno 9 n ra y s the coolies to
™™ he n fj w food was experimentally
got badly-sunburned tonsils. And
Tokyo University pronounced the season-
.
Another 10 months of heartbreaking
S?"™ e "‘ n a ' followad ‘ his
«ore an nsp.ration came to Hon Kama-
£ utsa - R y keeping the sunshine between
litmus papers in deep underground tanks
f or several weeks the strength of the rays
° e «™ e “•>? broke , n d °™, <° P»-
mit of their being mixed with the saw-
dust and starch without causing these
wholesome and palatable ingredients to
boil with froth at 162 deg. Fahr Also
the tonsils of the coolies when fed on
the new food became only slightly
browned and with no tendency to peel.
There was even no necessity for nibbing
the gullet with coconut oil before a meal,
It was, however, in successfully using
sunshine as a cement that Nippon’s
master-chemist achieved his greatest tri-
urnph and gained for the Rising Sun a
food which the decadent Western Powers
wer e too poverty-stricken in inventive
power to think of.
Earlier experimenters in Tokyo, he
found, had made the mistake of using
dew-drenched, early-morning sunshine,
thinking that its wet state would cause
the mixture to set better. Also, they had
been trying to use the same sun for both
cementing and seasoning purposes; this
was patently impossible.
Hon. Kumagutsa proved that wet sun-
shine went mouldy when mixed with saw-
dust, and when starch was added to the
lot became too stiff to bend, like the
collars sent back from Japanese laun-
dries. He then hit upon the ingenious
notion of first dehydrating the sunshine,
He thus achieved a cement that wouldn’t
set, a thing none of the white races, with
all their vaunted industrial capacity, had
ever been able to do. The advantage this
immediately gained was that which ever
way the new food was pushed it wouldn’t
stay,
Could any Nobel-prize-winner achieve
more?
BO.
Cold Comfort.
‘U.S. officials sympathise with Australian
women seeking imported brassieres and corsets,
but they cannot see any way of supplying
them.” — “Daily Telegraph . v
It is unpleasant to behold
Your figure roaming uncontrolled;
But women in the U.S.A.
Survey with just as much dismay
A middle section too augmented.
And in the circumstances who
Can blame them for refusing to
Export the gadgets which prevent it ?
Now, though officials sympathise
With problems relative to size.
The well-upholstered girl will find
That sympathy, however kind,
Rather inadequately serves -
To mitigate unruly curves.
P. M. Lusk.
Metaphysics.
Here in the city with its weary ills.
How can I concentrate ? I want the
Of quietude, some cave among the hills
More suitable to philosophic calm.
Give me that haunt remote, that peace-
ful state,
The view of stars in their sublime
rotation,
So might I settle down to contemplate
The strange futility of contemplation.
T. W. NATHAN.


THE OTHER FELLOW'S MIND
The contributor placed first is paid
4£d. per line; all others 2*d. per line.
The Family and the Nation
When our bureaucrats produce the
"new order” let us hope that it will be
firmly based on happy and contented
families.
High, low, rich and poor, we all arrive
in this world with extreme anti-social
tendencies, our fathers in particular
suffering greatly from the nocturnal rant-
ings and wailings of their aggressive off-
spring. Mother, however, coming to
the rescue with her natural love and
tenderness, guides the primitive urge of
the child to destroy and annoy into less
turbulent channels. Father lends a hand
(sometimes a heavy one), and brothers
and sisters assist in the process of edu-
cation in the very important subject of
good fellowship. Later teachers, school-
mates and friends widen the horizon.
Thus the citizen is gradually ac-
cepted into the membership of the great
brotherhood of man. There is no
brotherhood of man and no happiness
for those who have missed these advan-
tages. Their primitive, aggressive anc
destructive qualities remain, faith anc
trust are unknown, the child delinquent
becomes the anti-social misfit and genera
nuisance. Our great cities today produce
numerous examples, almost sad enough
to make a politician weep.
Any “new order” which does not en-
courage in every possible way the build-
ing up of happy and contented families
and which neglects to legislate against the
many evils disrupting family life, is
doomed to failure. — Salvor (N.G.).
Divorce and the Law
An aspect of the divorce business that
causes me concern is the fact that the
State is apparently not in the least con-
cerned when the marriage law is violated
by the guilty parties in a divorce suit.
The offender against licensing regulations,
traffic laws or taxation ordinances may
expect to be summoned to the bar of
justice; but unless alimony or damages
are awarded the wreckers of marriage
and home life go scot-free.
Marriage has the sanction and should
have the protection of the civil authori-
ties. Maybe there would be greater cir-
cumspection and fewer abuses if the
State were to institute proceedings against
the parties . responsible for the granting
of a divorce. It seems to me, too, that
perjury more often than not goes un-
punished in the divorce courts, and that
in many cases there is evident collusion.
Reform is necessary, but not in the direc-
tion of making divorce easier—the whole
legal machinery needs a thorough over-
haul.—-Caminda (Q.).
Fighting Soldiers 1 and A.E.S.
The son of “W.C.C.” (B. 18/10/’44)
is more fortunate than thousands of men
in the A.I.F. Six months “up north” and
"some Jap air raids” in four years’ ser-
vice are light ordeals compared with two
years overseas and four campaigns in my
three and a half years’ service.
Members of the three A.I.F. divisions
Miich served in the Middle East have had
•ittle opportunity to attend army schools,
h is only between periods in New Guinea
that they can be released for the elabor-
a te training centres in southern States,
a nd then the number of soldiers who can
So has to be limited so as not to interfere
A ith unit training.
If there are many soldiers like
W.C.C.’s” son they should be transferred
t 0 combatant units in the field and old
dmpaigners transferred to schools, first
! s pupils and then taken on the staff for
- term as instructors. There are hundreds
°r young Australians who for many
Months have experienced nothing but
;-Ttantry training and the ordeal of ad-
ducing into enemy fire (which imposes
"°nsiderably more strain than sitting in a
trench during an air raid). Some of
dese men have had the health knocked
; u t of them by long spells in the desert
tropics. Malaria, scrub typhus, skin
peases and stomach trouble have left
mark on a large percentage.
These chaps would appreciate a chance
; regain some of the gladiatorial fitness
.’/appealing to “W.C.C.” These men,
C°. surely are entitled to technical and
ydchanical training which would stand
-T 5 ® in good stead during civilian days
—A. J. M. (A.1.F.).
Post-war Defence
It is to be hoped that after the war
compulsory training, either naval or mili-
tary, will be reintroduced.
Such training teaches youngsters to
have tolerance towards their fellow-men,
take knocks and fend for themselves.
Many lads on joining a camp wonder
what is up when they find there is no
mother or sister to do their washing and
fold their clothes. But after a spell of
camp life they see things in a different
light.
When peace comes there will be plenty
of experienced men to take over training
centres, and men with the right sort
of temperament and personality must
be selected.
City lads would look forward to a
spell from the humdrum routine of their
jobs if the training were made interesting
—for example, if battalions had a certain
area to cover during the yearly fort-
night. The trainees would grab their.
packs, march 20 miles a day in an out-
ward direction for a week, then return
in another direction the second week.
City lads would enjoy camping at night,
see the country and return hardy and fit.
I had my experience with the Naval
Reserve (volunteers). They proved their
value in the dark days of 1939-40, and
“Be a good neighbor, ’ Erb, an' run round an' knock on the front door !”
it is doubtful whether we could have
manned our ships without them. —Sex-
tant (R.A.N.).
Tax Evasion
“Afia” (B. 4/10/’44) is right about the
prevalence of tax evasion. As a regis-
tered tax agent with many years of audit-
ing experience, I would suggest that it
be made compulsory for all businesses
to have their books audited and a copy
of the auditor’s certificate attached to
the return.
At the law stands every trader must
keep a set of books, but in small busi-
nesses very seldom is this properly done.
It is usually found that there are very
few supporting vouchers to substantiate
the figures disclosed by the accounts.
As often as not the figures are under-
stated.
Anyone preparing a return must accept
the figures as given to him and must
assume that the accounts purport to
represent the true position. It would be
very different if an auditor’s certificate
had to be produced. —Poker (N.S.W.).
Payment of Nurses
“Sister” (B. 18/10/’44) sets out to show
that trained nurses are very badly done
by, but her facts are astray. She says
that in N.S.W. hospitals a qualified sister’s
salary is £4 13s. 3d. per fortnight, out of
which she has to provide her own uni-
form, own dental and medical treatment,
and when on annual leave is charged full
board for her room.
The award for nurses provides;
Sydney-Newcastle,
Wollongong-
Pt. Kembla, Elsewhere,
Per Week. Per Week.
Registered nurse
(general) .. .. £4 6 6 £4 5 0
Sisters —
Ist year’s service .. 4 14 0 4 12 6
2nd „ „ .. 4 19 0 4 17 6
Thereafter 5 4 0 5 2 6
If a second certificate is required a
further 4s. per week must be paid. Uni-
forms must be provided or an additional
2s. per week paid. In addition to the
ordinary issue of 52 coupons per half-
year, trained nurses receive a special issue
for uniforms.
From the above rate of pay £1 Bs. 4d.
in the first group and £1 7s. 9d. per week
in the second group is deducted for board
and lodging. Can anyone else get decent
board and lodging at anywhere near these
figures?
Twenty-eight days’ annual leave on full
pay is provided (without any deduction
for board and lodging). Although not
specified in the award, the general
practice of the medical profession is to
give service gratuitously to nurses in
hospitals. Dentists generally make a
reduction to nurses. Generally speak-
ing, liberal sick-leave pay is granted by
the public hospitals.
From this it can be seen that the lowest
amount a trained nurse can receive in a
country hospital per fortnight is:
Salary at £4 ss. per week .. .. £8 10 0
Less board and lodging deduction .. 215 6
' £5 16 6
For the nurse employed as a “sister” the
lowest rate per fortnight, after deduction
of board and lodging, is, in the country
districts, £6 9s. 6d. These are minimum
rates. Experience gains increases.
Any overtime worked is paid for at
time and a quarter on the full award rate,
without deductions for board and lodg-
ing.
Without claiming that these rates are
high enough, I think a comparison of
them with rates in other vocations suit-
able for women will show them to advan-
tage.—Nodrog (N.S.W.).
The Old-time Poems
I was delighted to see one of Roderic
Quinn’s poems appear (B. 25/10/’44). I
am a lover of his poems. Their lyrical
loveliness surpasses anything the so-called
modernists with their unrhymed, metre-
less verses can produce.
I hope when the war is over that The
Bulletin will give our beauty-starved
minds a whole page of poems each week,
as it used to do in the good old days.
Surely there’s one out of every thirty
people fond of reading poetry. Why not,
then, give them one page out of thirty?
I’m glad to see a little more space being
allotted lately for poetry, and I hope the
modernists will not be allowed to grab
the lion’s share, for surely they are in a
minority.— Stella Partridge (N.S.W.).
Maoriland’s Forestry Policy
“M.R.’s” remarks (B. 18 /10 / ’44) on
Australia’s wanton annihilation of her
forests are a reminder that our neighbor,
Maoriland, pursues a very different
policy.
After the war the Dominion will
have a tremendous marketable surplus of
timber. Her pre-war maximum annual
output was 336,000,000 super feet of
timber. Huge areas of planted forests
are now ready, and both State and pri-
vate enterprise contributes to a prospec-
tive annual output of 2,500,000,000 super
feet. The State Forest Service has been
voted £530,000 to install an extensive
timber mill alongside one of the greatest
forests. Associated with this will be
established pulp mills costing well over
£1,000,000.
Pre-war Maoriland timber could not
compete, even on the Australian market,
with overseas prices, but through mecha-
nisation the cost has been reduced to
well below pre-1939 market prices. M.L.
looks to the development and expansion
of her export of softwoods to Australia
to help make her trade balance with
Australia more favorable. — Nil Desper-
andum (Q.).
American Immigrants
In repatriating our Diggers we are re-
paying, in some small measure, a debt of
honor. After them, who should receive
every consideration as immigrants if not
the Americans, who came to our aid
when we needed them most?
Thousands of American servicemen
have expressed a desire to settle here
after the war, the greater majority of them
being earnest, ambitious, young fellows,
keen to establish themselves in this coun-
try. Their progressiveness, inventive
talent and mechanical knowledge would
be of inestimable benefit to Australia, but
the Government is missing an excellen:
opportunity of attracting these potentia
immigrants, and will make no move to
do so. Why? Because Americans are
staunch advocates of private enterprise?
The Yanks are vital, alive and chock-
full of that energy so sorely needed in
the development of this vast continent.
They have shown us an astounding
example of their war production anc
organising methods, attributes which em-
phasise the tremendous contribution they
could make to our post-war development.
—B. McK. (Q.).
German Orphans as Immigrants
The German child is trained by “the
party” from the age of six. Eyen younger
than that he comes under Nazi influence
ip the home. So J. R. Lewis’s suggestion
(B. 11/10/ ’44) would not be workable.
At 12, Australian environment could not
make them Australian citizens.
People would always regard these im-
migrants with suspicion. That would not
help them to love their adopted country.
No doubt the leaders of the Nazi party
would welcome the suggestion. They are
already, so we are told, preparing an
underground movement to fight on after
the war is finished and to prepare for
the next war. Having potential agents
planted for them in the Empire would
help their plans.
Australia needs immigrants, but Britain
has plenty of war orphans, already
trained in our ideals. They are our own’
kith and kin and would take naturally
to Australian conditions. By bringing
these children here we will be helping
Australia and the Mother Country.—
T. P. V. (R.A.A.F.).
Personal Loans
The new “small loans on character”
policy of some of the private trading
banks is proving a boon to many decent,
hard-working people. In the past when
they needed money urgently these people
have been driven into the clutches of the
money-lender.
Well do I remember payday at the big
establishment where I worked as a lad —
the furtive emissaries of the money-
lenders hanging about with their gar-
nishee orders, made available to them by
the law of the land. Most of the men
they preyed upon were hard-working,
honest chaps with heavy family respon-
sibilities.
I know decent men to whom the new
small loans on character of the Bank of
New South Wales and either banks have
been a godsend, and ”have prevented
worry and breakdowns in health. Who-
ever originated this policy deserves the
thanks of all honest battlers.— Wendo
(Vic.).
Rubber
A booklet sponsored by Mr. Ward
urging motorists to conserve tyres and
fuel is being distributed. According to the
C.O. of an Army salvage depot, there is
more scrap rubber in this country than
can be handled by the mills —including
a big mill imported by our Allies. In
fact, rubber stocks at the salvage dump
are becoming so large, that there is diffi-
culty in accommodating them.
Yet there is a Rubber Control Board
with a heavy boot for civilians. —
C. R. (Q.).
Synthetic Fibres
Some day Australia may have a sea-
weed industry. That is not as far-fetched
as it sounds, for alginic acid derived from
seaweed is the principal raw material used
in the production of one of the latest
synthetic fibres. Formerly seaweed was
also a main source of iodine, potash and
certain gums. For the production of the
new synthetic substance British scientists
expect to obtain ample supplies of sea-
weed along the U.K. coasts. Why
shouldn’t Australian scientists follow
suit?
Should your answer be “nuts,” Prof.
Speakman, of Leeds University, would
reply “Yes, nuts, too! A first-rate syn-
thetic fibre has been made from monkey
nuts and fashions in the future will in-
clude rayon dresses and stockings made
from both seaweed and nuts.” — Erleyby
(Vic.).


Now ... a ton of coal
goes further
Efficiency Saves Vital Coal
Both for the manufacture of steel and the creation of the power which drives rolling mills
as shown here, coal is the prime fuel.
It takes a lot of fuel to make steel run like water. The primary fuel is coal
or gas made from coal.
In the transformation of coal to coke, these coke ovens make enough gas to
supply a city of a million people. This gas is used to the best possible
advantage in the Steelworks plant.
Improved combustion practice over
a period of 20 years has brought
with it a substantial reduction in
the quantity of coal required in the
production of steel.
Shortly after the last war those
in control decided that if the newly-
established Newcastle Steelworks
was to develop soundly and com-
pete successfully against the world s
best steel plants then it would
need three things.
The first necessity was to train
Australian workmen in the various
processes of steel manufacture; the
second was to utilise available raw
materials to the fullest advantage;
and the third was to ensure that the
steel plant and equipment should
be as up-to-date as modern practice
dictated.
From the combination of these
three basic factors has been deve-
loped a production system which
ensures both quality and quantity
. . . co-ordinated production with
a high degree of economy.
This economy is particularly im-
portant, as it concerns coal con-
sumption. This versatile mineral is
the steel industry’s basic fuel, and
as plant efficiency has increased and
combustion practice improved so
the amount of coal required to
make a ton of steel has been
materially reduced over the years.
This has meant that there has
been available fo# other national
requirements more than a million
tons of coal each year which would
have been required for the manu-
facture of steel had not a rigorous
fuel economy campaign been under-
taken by The Broken Hill Proprie-
tary Co. Ltd. It’s a saving which is
going to be just as important to
Australia in the post-war period as
it has been during the wmr.
It lakes a lot of coal and continuity of supply to enable a modern steelworks to mainlain
economic production. At the Newcastle Steelworks (shown above) coal is made to pull.
its full weight, and to-day, through efficient utilisation, wastage is reduced to a minimum
