

cvcv
The Bulletin
“The Bulletin,”
Vol. 65 No. 3368
Wednesday, August 30, 1944
Price 6d.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.
Jeppelts
PEMBROKE’S HISTORIC RUINS,
C ASTLE BIRTHPLACE OF ENGLAND’S HENRY VII.
PEMBROKE, on a peninsula jutting out into one of the arms
of Milford Haven in south Wales, was formerly the capital
of the Palatinate. The castle occupies the extremity of the ridge
on which the town is built, being washed by a salt-water creek
on three sides, while bounded on the fourth by the town. This
castle, one of the noblest of England’s ruins, was probably built
soon after the Conquest, Here in the fourteen-hundreds, Henry
YU was born first of the Tudor line and who, in 1485, succeeded
Richard 111, after Bosworth Field. It was this Henry who
built the Gothic Lady Chapel of Westminster Abbey and
is there buried.
Pembroke Castle in 1648 was besieged by Cromwell, and since its
surrender to him the castle has been left to ruin ; and today it
stands brooding on its richly-colourful history, haunted perhaps
by the shades of people whose lives were no less colourful than
the castle’s story.


wry^nttny
This Book FREE to YOU!
STOTT’S CORRESPONDENCE COLLEGE.
100 Russell Street, Melbourne.
Please send, withovl obligation, your New Free
booklet, explaining how to Write lor Profit, at
advertised in the Sydney “Bulletin.'’
My Name
My Addrett
is.B. 244 AGE
The Bulletin
EXPERIMENT OR QUALITY?
Easily the most interesting contribu-
tions to the third New Zealand New
Writing (Progressive Publishing Society,
Wellington) are two poems' by Don
McDonald, a Second N.Z.E.F. man who
was drowned when a hospital ship was
torpedoed. This, the shorter and slighter
of the two, is called “Time”:
Upon the benchy hillside
Where hoggets love to lie
With noses pointed to the wind
And half-closed eye,
I walk alone on Sundays
And wish my love were nigh.
For oh, the hours went slower
Than the moon goes in the sky.
Upon the benchy hillside
Raked with wind and sun.
Where the grey hawk hovers
And little rabbits run,
My love and I did linger
A few short hours.
But time slipped through our fingers
As the wind slipped through the flowers.
This poem and its companion piece
stand out in the book not so much be-
cause the style is mildly experimental
but because both are indisputably good
poetry. The dilemma in which New
Zealand New Writing, like all new move-
ments, appears to be caught, may be
illustrated by a poem by G. R. Gilbert
entitled “Killed in Action”:
Stoop steel sing lead
The silent flood serves plaster saints
Steel needle’s severed nerve end
Sags
The needle machine stops
The red flower sprouts, petals, fades
Sings in the water to mud
Calyx blackened leaf betrayed
Goes sap and stalk
Shouts no more
What the writer here is trying to say
—with so much tortured labor for so
little result —is simply what the psalmist
said a long time ago, “Man’s life is as
the grass.” The method, as an experi-
ment, may be interesting ; the poem, as
poetry, is obviously far from satisfactory.
It is nothing.
Experiment is important. If people
hadn’t written poems as bad as “Killed
in Action” Don McDonald wouldn’t
have been able to write, in his free con-
temporary style, poems as good as
“Time.” And if it’s important, experi-
ment is also interesting.
But interesting to whom? Generally
speaking, to writers only.
And this present issue of N.Z. New
Writing, lacking the two or three incon-
testably good contributions that “carried”
the experiments in the earlier volumes,
seems as whole designed for writers
rather than readers. On the part of the
editors there seems to have been a de-
termined search for new contributors ; on
the part of the writers a determined
search for new methods or new material.
Wallace Gaitland writes a short story
about a consumptive, E. O. Petersen
about pdtients in the garden of a lunatic
asylum: the search for new material.
Frank Sargeson, using that uncomfort-
able technique of accusing the reader of
3eing the hero of his story (“You were
a big boy now”) writes about a sensitive
child; the search for new method.
Despite an amusing light fantasy by
lames Harris satirising the monetary
system, a note on the “Eruption at Tara-
wera,” by P. W. Robertson (with one
ine moment of poetry in it and interest-
ng as a cross between the essay and the
short story) and Greville Texidor’s
pleasant but rather pointless family
comedy “The Picnic,” it is the stories by
Petersen, Gaitland and Sargeson that
give the book its character. A very
slight sketch by R. Gilberd—hardly more
than a paragraph—again emphasises the
bias towards experiment.
There is always the implication in a
book or a magazine devoted to experi-
ment that the editors will be satisfied with
something less than the highest quality,
provided it is “new” or “interesting” or
even merely “valuable.” lan Gordon’s
essay on Katherine Mansfield, asserting
that she was distinctively a New Zealand
writer, but failing to prove the point by
quotation and argument—and therefore
reading like only the opening paragraphs
of an essay—is hardly more than “valu-
able.” Essays, in any case, seem out of
place in a book which is surely designed
to present the New Zealand creative
effort.
From the literary point of view there
are obvious objections to be made to
Sargeson’s method and also to Oakland's
and Petersen’s material; writers who deal
with physical or mental sickness strike,
as do the advertisements for quack medi-
cines, at the private fears of the reader.
But Sargeson always writes compellingly,
and the other two have handled their
themes with exceptional good taste ; the
stories would certainly have their place
in an experimental publication.
And since they are well done —particu-
larly the consumptive story—and since
the interest in experiment is not exclu-
sively confined to writers, the reading
public might also enjoy them.
The principle remains, however: ex-
periment, as such, is for an audience of
writers; what readers want is quality.
Apparently in New Zealand, as in Aus-
tralia, there is a general tendency to
over-rate the value of experiment.
Granted, it has its place ; granted, it is
important; but the publication of Brian
James’s short stories in Sydney recently
—gay, strong, wholly delightful, and
based simply and traditionally on the
humor of character —showed how much
more important than experiment was
solid merit. For a recent New Zealand
example, there was Roderick Finlayson’s
excellent comedy “Now Then, Uncle
Ted” in The Bulletin of August 9
free enough in method, it’s true, but
chiefly appealing because it was good fun.
As with Coast to Coast, (both being
national publications whereby the coun-
tries’ standards of culture are measured)
ope would prefer to see New Zealand
New Writing based firmly on quality—
with, at all times, a welcome for experi-
ments that “come off.” Experiment is
for the little groups; but literature is for
the world.
Arrival of Gaiefy .
In a poem entitled “Foreshore” in In
a Convex Mirror (Dymock’s) Rosemary
Dobson depicts herself as an idler “with
nothing in my pockets but my hands” ;
in “The Dove” she sees life as a dove
circling “with nothing at all beneath its
wing” ; in “Disconnected” she observes:
Like spider webs the telephone wires,
Spun out in strands from pole to pole,
Link up the length from light to dark;
But something disconnects my soul.
All these are images of emptiness.
Technically the poems are good—excep-
tionally graceful—but one is reminded
of the early Eliot announcing himself as
a “hollow man” or Stephen Spender de-
claring that he “stares in himself as
though in an empty room.”
If this mood is conveyed strongly and
skilfully enough, it amounts to some-
thing very close to poetry. In Rosemary
Dobson’s “One Section” the image is
almost terrifying:
Will you believe what I saw in the late after-
noon from the tramway,
Going up William-street from the Past to the
Future?
Who can deny it was Death in the final door-
way?
Shut, shut, with the wind blowing outside from
inside,
The bulb removed from the socket under the
lampshade,
And the Vacancy notice* swinging loose in the
window.
It is poetry, or nearly poetry, but it
is not except technically attractive.
Keats told Shelley to “load every rift
with poetic ore,” but the poems of empti-
ness set out to take the ore from every
rift. In Dunbar’s time poets were called
“makers” ; the poet of emptiness sets out
to make nothing.
What is the meaning of these poems
that are like chasms? That Rosemary
Dobson really believes that life is a dove
with nothing at all beneath its wing?
In certain moods, yes. But the real
underlying significance is simply that here
was a poet with a fine talent who didn’t
quite know what to do with it; a writer
in search of a theme, a maker wondering
what to make.
The problem, Rosemary Dobson clearly
discovered, wasn’t so difficult after all. It
was simply a matter of looking outside
oneself instead of inside; looking at the
great world and suddenly discovering
Botticelli painting a waitress in a cafe:
Lifting her hand to brush away her hair,
He limns her in an instant, always there
Between the doorway and the emphatic till
With waves and angels, balanced on a shell.
There was another and even more im-
portant discovery. Poetry was something
you could have a game with. Instead of
staring at “Vacancy” notices one could
take Gray’s plodding ploughman, lift him
up to the top of a hill, let him strike a
match on the stars and hang his cap on
the horn of the moon ; ope could imagine
modern industry struck into immobility
as the palace was struck when the Sleep-
ing Beauty pricked her finger:
Suppose my spell should bind the lifts
Immobile in their webs of steel;
Then skyscrapers would furnish cells
For latter-day philosophers
Or desert fathers wrapped in calm
—New Simons on a plinth of stone —
With stars above and lights below
For contemplation and delight;
And often at the quietest time
The brushing of prophetic wings
Outside the ninety-second floor . . .
And one could meet —in the most charm-
ing of all these fantasies —the indignant
fisherman who, observing the nightly
suicide of the moon in the water, wanted
to have a word with that fellow Endy-
mion.
There was one more discovery to be
made: the Australian landscape. Fan-
tastic in “Moving in Mist” where
Lob’s asleep, curled up in the covered tractor
While the swagman snores in the Bracken hollow
beside him;
realistic but still imaginative in “Picnic”
when
Tongues of flame like slander
Blackened the billy.
Rosemary Dobson is a young writer,
and a highly promising one. Her work
began in the “hollow men” mood, but is
emerging to the great traditional worlds
of character and landscape, and
emerging with a gaiety that is like a
shout of relief.
Escape from Norway .
In Synnove Christensen’s Norway Is
My Country (Collins) there is one charac-
ter who might have come straight out of
Peer Gynt or even out of Hans Ander-
sen. An old lorry-driver—driving for the
Germans and secretly working for the
Norwegian underground movement—he
has come to give Mrs. Christensen news
of her husband, who is in hiding from the
Nazis, and to help her to join him.
The old man tells her she should carry
poison; everybody should, so that, if
taken by the Nazis, they can commit
suicide before confessing under torture
and implicating others. Mrs. Christensen
asks him if he carries poison himself.
“You bet I have. Some pretty little
pills,” he laughed grimly. “And the day
King Haakon comes back I’m going to get
dead drunk and the day after when I
wake up”—he .opened his mouth and
dropped in an imaginary pill—“and then
to sleep for good and all.”
He explains that “When peace comes the
country will have no use for an old
boozer like me.” He “rather likes” the
war, because he can be useful; “but
afterwards, well—l’ll just go to sleep,
just when my head’s pounding away at
its merriest.”
The old fatalist is something out-of-
the-way in a*war book. Apart from some
not very successful attempts at rendering
Norwegian slang into its English “equiva-
lents,” Mrs. Christensen’s story is well
told, simple and natural throughout, the
Nazis as well as the Norwegians appear-
ing as credible human beings.
The book is the true account of how
her husband was imprisoned by the
Nazis, how on his release he joined the
underground movement and how eventu-
ally, accompanied by the author and
their child, he was forced to escape
across the sea ice into Sweden. It is, of
course, highly dramatic, and it is interest-
ing, too, as an illustration of exactly why
and how the occupation of a country by
a conqueror becomes intolerable.
"Meanjin Papers
From Brisbane “Meanjin Papers,”
Autumn, 1944, issue;
On several occasions The Bulletin has
referred to Meanjin’s “lack of direction.”
What on earth does that mean? Hang
directions! We do not wish to indulge in
the furious recriminations and jealousies,
literary and political “directions” which
characterise many of the oversea Little Maga-
zines. Our aim is to continue to provide
an alive medium for the newcomer as well
as for the established writer, to help in
breaking down our cultural isolation, to
make a literary Report' on Today... .That,
broadly, is our “direction.” Meanjin
offers a forum for writers of varying and
often conflicting viewpoints, and no writer
with something interesting to say and
knowing hpw to say it will be barred from
these pages. Our stated object is not' to
attempt to prejudice or predetermine view-
points by a set formula. This would take
the life out of this type of magazine.
It would be a great pity for “Meanjin
Papers” to “hang” its editorial direction.
Mr. Christesen deserves a happier fate.
Though A. D. Hope’s memorable de-
bunking of The Vegetative Eye loses
half its force when a naive Leftist affack
on all Australian painters who fail to
use their brushes as “weapons” is placed
beside it, and though good poetry is still
mixed up with what is merely “interest-
ing,” the magazine continues to improve
with each issue.
It is appealing for subscribers, con-
tributions and donations.
SUNDRY SHOWS.
Scarlet fever had broken out at Will
Ashton’s show at Sedon’s Galleries, Mel-
bourne, long before R. G. Menzies
opened the exhibition, and there were
cases of heartburn amongst intending
purchasers when they turned up to find
red tabs on some of the most popular
examples of the art of the ex-director of
the National Gallery of N. S. Wales
Ashton applies the traditional Australian
manner equally well to the native scene
as to European landscape, though some
of his early Parisian sketches look as if
they were painted by a more excited
artist than the more recent Sydney paint-
ings. A winter snowscape sharply painted
has been earmarked for the Vic. National
collection. Dorothy Whitehead (Kozmin-
sky Galleries, Melbourne) has a feeling
for the placid landscape and a fairly
adequate language in which to express
it. She is an ex-pupil of Max Meldrum.
The Society of Artists’ annual show at
the Education Department Galleries,
Sydney, is to a greater extent than on any
previous occasion pervaded by the offer-
ings of protestants against Nature. Out-
side this mass of distortions and eccen-
tricities there is some sound work from
the brushes of James Cook, Sydney Ure
Smith, Douglas Dundas, Muriel Med-
worth, Lloyd Rees H. Badham, Freda
Robertshaw, Thea Proctor, Lorna Nimmo
(her “Landslide” sparkles), Dattilo-
Rubbo (his “Old Bachelor” is the best
thing he has ever done), John Rowell,
John Eldershaw, Cedric Emmanuel (an
etching), Kenneth Mac Queen, Ronald
Steuart, Daphne Mayo (a fine sculptural
head of Lloyd Rees) and Maud Sher-
wood. The N. S. Wales Gallery Trustees
bought liberally of the work of exhibi-
tors possessing original ideas concerning
anatomy and other elementary physical
facts.
Skipper John Mills, R.A.N.V.R., filled
the walls of the Macquarie Galleries,
Sydney, with 101 of his works—mostly
in water-color, some in pencil, a few in
in oils —bequeathed the entire proceeds
to the R.A.N. Relief Fund, and had the
satisfaction of seeing a red seal on every
offering three hours after the show
opened. Crisp, competent draughtsman-
ship, a nice eye for color, absolute sin-
cerity of purpose and ability to find a
picture almost anywhere explain the
strong, popular appeal of this artist's
work. “Native Playing Fields, Kwato,”
a model of clean, bright decisive water-
color, and the portraits “Karuelo of
Goodenough Island,” “Gregory” and
“Native Girl” (No. 87) deserve especial
mention.
At the talkies:
Robert Stevenson, who collaborated with
Aldous Huxley in transcribing the Charlotte
• Bronte novel for the screen, had his work as
director of “Jane Eyre” (Sydney Regent) made
easier by being allotted one of filmdom’s most
intelligent actresses—-Joan Fontaine. She acts
the role with distinction. Orson Welles, less
surely in character, plays Edward Rochester
with a sort of gusty impatience. The Welles
influence is apparent in the striking photographic
effects.
A brace of stage comedy successes have
been frocked in celluloid; “Up in Mabels
Room” (Empire) and “Girl Crazy” (St. James).
M. Auer is a thread of clever asinjnity run-
ning through the crazy pattern of the Mabel
indiscretion. The Rooney-Garland combina-
tion’s success is in the asides to the weak story.
“Gung Ho!” (Sydney Victory) is the Holly-
wood depiction of the raid on Makin Island
by U.S. Marines. There is plenty of action,
but the reality is destroyed by the obviously
ersatz Marines.
“Cauboy”: Melbourne people either
violently like or violently dislike Mar-
jorie Lawrence’s singing. Nobody seems
to dismiss her lightly. Beecham said she
was the greatest living Wagnerian singer,
and she has included some magnificent
Wagner in her programmes; yet one
hears people talking about her as if she
were some vocalist from the backblocks,
instead of the heroine of successive New
York seasons. Some criticise her sing-
ing down to her audiences, though Melba
did that; and one young woman told me
that she might be a great singer, but she
had no dress sense. Well, Tetrazzini ha
no dress sense and, according to a friend
who knew her, she was a fat little dump-
ling with arms like balloon tyres, wine
is certainly not .a description that h s
Miss Lawrence. Whatever is responsible
for the controversy no singer, native or
foreign, has drawn such packed an
enthusiastic houses as Miss Lawrence has
in Melbourne.
The Australiansky Ballet continues to
draw amazing houses at His Majesty \
Melbourne; the queues stretch rro.
Allen’s to Swanston-street daily. 1
visiting ballet has scored such a con-
sistent success as this one —a tribute
the hard work and belief of Borovans )
and the resiliency of the local lads an
lassies.


"TRUTH IN ADVERTISING
"THE SENIOR STORE"
ANTHONY HORDERNS’
121 Years of Service
MEN
n
w.
m
- y \
m
\
VZ
m
m
m
M
i
m
m
wm
n
Q
NIVEA SUNNING OIL
This is made with a special
Anti-Burn filter. A delicately
perfumed Non-Staining Sun-
Tan 2/8
TUSSY BOUQUET
SHAVING CREAM
This is a mentholated cream,
which leaves the skin cool
and refreshed after shaving.
Price 1/6
NASON'S
DANDRUFF REMEDY
An excellent remedy for the
hair and scalp relieves
dandruff—stimulates growth
of hair, and restores Grey
hair to its natural colour.
Price 3/11
BARDOL
An excellent preparation for
the care and preservation of
the skin. A perfect emollient
, for use before and after
shaving 1/6
• Chemistry Department —
Ground Floor, Pitt Street.
ROLLS AFTER
SHAVING LOTION
This lotion is soothing,
cleansing and astringent, 4/6
KUROPED FOOT POWDERS
For the treatment of Tinea, perspiring feet,
tired feet, chafing, etc. Price 1/6
80&
immt
cmft
ROLLS SHAVING CREAM
Made from the purest ingredients obtainable.
Softens the toughest beard, and absolutely
non-injurious 4/S
GARLAND'S SCALP TONIC
n antiseptic vitogenised oil for the treat-
.ent of the scalp and hair. Also useful
r hair-dressing 3/6
ANTHONY
'PHONE; M 2401 (DAY AND NIGHT)
OEtpERNS
fciiceA
BOX 2712 C, G.P.0., SYDNEY


OLD GLORY WAVES OVER GUAM AGAIN
By JOHN BRENNAN
BATTLE-TRIED were the troops
who went into Guam. The
northern landing, between Agana
and the Orote Peninsula, was
the work of the Third Marine Divi-
sion, which last November went to Em-
press Augusta Bay, on Bougainville, and
had the establishing of the beachhead
around Cape Torokina.
The First Marine Provisional Brigade
hit the beaches south of Agat. As color-
ful a unit as there is in the Marine Corps,
it includes veterans of the campaigns up
through the Solomons Guadalcanal,
Tulagi, the Russells, New Georgia, Em-
press Augusta—and of the submarine
raid on Makin Island, but the Guam job
is its first as a brigade. Associated with
it in the landing was the Seventy-seventh
Division of the U.S. Army. The Seventy-
seventh moved up and crossed the saddle
of the range at Maanot Pass. By the second
day it had made the furthest penetration.
In the drive north to cut across the
neck of the Orote Peninsula and link
with the force coming down from the
direction of Agna, the Agat-road became
the one stable landmark on Guam.
Everything asked for—Regimental Com-
mand Post, Battalion C.P., that nebulous
thing the front line, the place where
“they” found the torpedoes, the Coca
Cola stand, barbers’ chairs —was “up
along the old Agat-road.”
Agat town was left behind the first
afternoon. Left behind as a series of tiny
mounds of rubble of Spanish masonry ;
church walls ; scattered sheets of iron;
piles of timber where weatherboard
houses had been; a six-inch pipeline
broken every dozen yards or so; two
roadways; a few flowering shrubs; dozens
of shell craters. That first evening the bull-
dozers were levelling Agat still further.
Just beyond, where the road passed be-
tween two small knolls and across a con-
crete bridge, was a concrete pillbox. It
pinned a company down for an hour,
and tanks had to blast a way beside it.
The bridge went, too, and all traffic
dipped to a corduroy crossing. For three
days there was a sniper in the bushes
beside the creek, with men bivouacked all
through the area.
When the forward troops were already
three-fourths of the way across the neck
of the peninsula, Agat-road was the front
line. It climbed ridges where anything
moving along it was outlined against the
sky. It dipped to swing along embank-
ments between dense brush and suckers,
thick as a hedge, closer, offering more
cover to a man hidden there than any of
the jungle in the Solomorjs. It was so
narrow that a truck brushed against the
bushes on either side. In parts the trucks
that carried ammunition and water “up
front” and brought back the wounded
passed outside the thinly-spaced line of men
who lay in the bushes holding the “line.”
A LL along the parts where the advance
crossed the road the trucks drew
sniper fire. It was one of the features of
the campaign driving out towards the
peninsula, the number of stray Japs who
were necessarily left behind the line. The
advance was rapid, the line of moving
troops thinly spaced ; there was no time
for mopping up. And the Jap had his
little holes everywhere, cunningly con-
trived and hidden.
Further out along the road where there
were small farmhouses and outbuildings
the enemy had storehouses with supplies
of all kinds; clothing, foodstuffs, am-
munition. The salmon so were
the biscuits; there were crate upon crate
of sauces, very little sake. Except for
the odd little 75-millimetre field pieces, the
Japanese equipment was always excellent.
But four or five pushbikes and two old
trucks pushed into the bushes beside the
roadway were the only signs that the
enemy had ever had any transport along
the Agat-road. It was not rutted, but there
was no evidence of any recent repair.
The fields and farms looked as though
they had been abandoned and neglected
for a long time. There were two bullocks
and further along a lone water buffalo
grazing, oblivious of the rattle of
machine-gun and rifle fire around them,
of the crash and roar of the artillery
barrage up ahead. Standing naked in a
field were the barbers’ chairs, mentioned ;
two, in good condition —nothing else.
The Jap has a habit of planking his
gear down haphazardly. At the side of
the road, where it skirted a once ploughed
field, was a large pile of auxiliary petrol
tanks for aeroplanes. There had been no
attempt to make a landing strip, nor was
there anywhere a sign of the equipment
necessary to begin the job.
When the advancing infantry had
pushed out for a thousand yards or so
along the peninsula a 37-millimetre field
battery was setting up its guns on a slope
beside the road. There were half a hun-
dred dead Japs sprawled across the crest
of the rise about the holes from which
the infantry had driven them before
occupying their positions the evening be-
fore. A few yards beyond, just in front
of a thicket of brush, was a solid log-
built dugout housing three dead Japs.
Suddenly in plain view of the gun
crews two Japanese ran from the brush
with a light machine-gun and began to
set it up on the mound of the dugout.
They were shot before they could fire
more than a few rounds.
Though in the early days of the fight-
ing there were none of those fantastic
instances of the ritualistic suicide of
Japanese civilians such as were reported
to have occurred at Saipan, there was
plenty of evidence of the Japanese
soldier’s unreasoning fanaticism, his
seeking of. death for the glory he sees
merely in the act of dying.
On the day of the landing two Marines,
poking into one of the many caves hewn
into the range behind Agat, found twelve
Japanese officers seated holding hands.
They had be.n killed by a machine-
gunner sitting a fewyards away. The gunner
then had cut his throat with a knife.
P ACH night as the beachhead
*—■' perimeter was gradually extended
there were the usual attempts at infiltra-
tion between the front-line foxholes.
On the southern beachhead there was
no organised counter-attack such as that
which, five nights after the landing pushed
in through the northern division’s lines,
swept down in one section to within a
hundred yards of the beach and estab-
lished a machine-gun fifty yards from
division headquarters. In this five or six
battalions were involved. But once a
line has been established such attacks are
welcomed as, bringing the enemy from his
holes and giving the opportunity to inflict
casualties. On this occasion, when mop-
ping-up was complete, over 2400 Japa-
nese had been, buried.
The southern infiltrations were rather
of a harassing nature by small isolated
groups. In some cases they crept for-
ward with bayonets tied to the end of
six-foot bamboo poles, which they poked
into foxholes. There were futile, yelling
Banzai charges. One Japanese jumped
with a grenade on a machine-gun crew,
killing himself and the three men in the
hole. In the late afternoon of a day when
the Marines had already pushed a third
of the way out along Orote Peninsula,
fifty or sixty Japs came walking down the
Sumay-road towards the American lines.
They were in loose formation, and the
casual manner of their coming, the way
they carried their arms slung off their
shoulders, at first convinced a tank crew
that watched them from the side of the
road that they were Marines. Then some-
one at the head of the column unfurled
a large Japanese flag, and the march
continued. When the column drew near
the tank was forced to open fire. The
march to death was over.
On Guam correspondents had an
opportunity—for some, at least, their
first in the war in the Pacific —to “see”
the fighting whole. A change from the
jungles of the South Pacific, where it was
necessary to crawl through the under-
brush, and, when the fighting started, it
was possibly only to see the man crouched
in the brush on either side. Out along
the Orote Peninsula there were times
when a man sitting on the small mound
of earth where there was a forward com-
pany command post could see the advanc-
ing line of infantry sixty to one hundred
yards ahead ; see the tanks a few yards
in front of them, the burst of fire with
which they flushed each clump of bushes,
the manner in which they went to earth and
worked around the sides with grenades to
flank bunkers and pillboxes, the rolling
advance of mortar and artillery barrage.
All along the peninsula to the edge of
the airfield the enemy resisted strongly.
Flanking the two roads leading out in
that direction he had a half-dozen
strongly-built defence lines. Before tanks
and infantry could cross the open slope
leading up to the old Marine barracks
of pre-war days, sappers had to clear a
heavily-sewn minefield. They worked in
the open in plain view of the troops behind.
U/ITH the taking of the barracks, the
VV approach to the airfield, organised
resistance suddenly ceased. By that time
over 4000 Japanese dead had been counted
on the approaches to Orote Peninsula. All
that remained was to blast the last of the
enemy from his hideouts in the cliff
caves behind the town of Sumay. He was
in strongly-fortified positions, built up at
the opening to the caves with coral and
earthworks.
The job was handed over to the “Half-
tracks” and tanks with their 75-millimetre
guns. They perched in front of the cliff
in the streets of the town and began
systematically to blast away the cliff-
face. The wall crumbled, caves were
sealed with explosives.
It was two days, in the breaks between
the blast of fire, before the last of the
sniper-fire from the cliff-face ceased. By
that time engineers were at work on the
airstrip, American ’planes were landing
on one edge, the mines had been cleared,
the debris of the fifty-odd Japanese ’planes
that littered the runways and revetments
gathered for burning.
Unique in this war in the Pacific until
the invasion of the Marianas —or Mari-
annes—was the systematic destruction of
a city by heavy gunfire. The townships
on Saipan provided the experiment. At
Agana- the method reached a perfection
of desolation.
Agana was the Spanish capital of the
group. The modern city was in a large
part American-built, and American in
its sewerage system, its picture theatre,
beauty parlors, soft-drink palaces and
'restaurants. Evidence of Spanish culture
still remained in the churches and street-
corner grtottoes, the place-names—San
Juan de Lateran, Maria Ana de Aus-
tria —the masonry of the majority of the
houses, the language of the Chamorros,
a racial admixture of Kanaka, Spanish
and Filipino, who fomed the greatest part
of the population of 10,000 people. A town
of Old Europe far out in the Pacific which
could not escape the fate which many a
town in Old Europe has experienced.
The pre-invasion bombardment of
Guam, from the sea and from the air,
was the heaviest yet delivered in any part
of the Pacific. A large part of it was
necessarily directed against Agana. The
power-house, the waterside factories, the
post office, known centres of the Japanese
system of communications, were primary
targets, but as one week passed and an-
other dragged slowly away and still the
battleships, cruisers, carriers and all their
attendant smaller ships cruised off Guam
those first targets tumbled into rubble.
Soon there was no target left but the
town itself. Still the big guns rumbled
away ; the shells kept up their pounding.
After the landing south-west of the town
at Asan, field artillery took took over a
large part of the work of destruction. But
the Navy was not yet finished with the
place. When its turrets turned from the
support of the land forces Agana was
their target.
After clearing the Japs from the caves
in the coastal cliffs to the west, the Third
Marine Division established a line about
a mile short of the outer boundary of
Agana. While the southern landing force
was occupied in a war of extermination
against the enemy on the Orote Peninsula,
the steady reduction of Agana by artillery
fire was continued. There was no forward
movement of troops. The eventual taking
of Agana was going to cost as little
as possible in American lives.
Day after day the pounding went on.
When, at times, the bombardment ceased,
and the pall of smoke which hung over
the town cleared a little observers would
note another landmark gone. The day
after Orote Peninsula was declared free of
the enemy except for bitter-enders who
still needed to be flushed from their hide-
outs in the caves behind Sumay, a patrol
ventured into the streets, It reported
many mines in the roadways, wire
barriers and pillboxes at street intersec-
tions. The rest was desolation, Agana
was apparently deserted.
There was every evidence that the
enemy had intended a street-by-street
defence of Agana. He was never given
the opportunity.
KJ EXT day, with tanks leading the ad-
A vance, the entire American line began
to roll forward. It swept across the island.
It rolled into the streets of Agana and
beyond. It pushed out on to the high
ground to the north of the city without
having encountered any organised force
of Japanese. One Japanese soldier was
killled in a street-corner pillbox. He
was the only one who remained to de-
fend the capital of Guam.
There were no dead among the ruins
of Agana, It seemed that the town had
been evacuated in good order. There was
little merchandise remaining in the shops.
Everything of value had apparently been
removed. All that remained in the
wrecked buildings was heavy, immovable
furniture. Splintered timbers, powdered
masonry littered the roadways. The
only signs of life or of living were in the
few flowering shrubs, the trees, torn by
shrapnel but still green, that still pushed
through the dust.
Proof that this destruction was not
futile was evidenced in the hundreds of
landmines unearthed by the sappers the
concrete pillboxes still undamaged at the
street corners, the wire barriers that had
been pushed down by the tanks, the
booby traps in the wrecked houses, the
signs in Japanese on almost every house
along the main road. Had Agana not
been laid waste the advance into the city
would have necessitated a series of bitter
battles in the streets, a slow progress high
in casualties from street corner to street
corner, from house to house.
On from the Mariannes through the
cities of the Philippines to the cities of
Japan, so long as the war in the Pacific
lasts, the story of Agana must be re-
peated over and over again.
Various Verse.
South Coast Idyll.
Before the day-star was white with morning
My love, long-wandered, came back to me;
We took the track up by Bulge Mountain
To see the sun rise across the sea.
And he sang as we went,
‘‘Fa-la-la, fa-la-10,
Oh, it’s sweet to meet again, love,
Though we parted long ago:”
Far'and fair sweeps the sea to southward,
Sharp and sheer the land drops below,
But he stared too long at the bright beaches—
A foolish man, and I proved him so.
The trees grow thick under Bulgo Mountain
And the looped vines turn the twilight green,
And a man’s bones, with moss grown over,
From year to year there could swing unseen.
Would a fisherman cross the grasslands
Swelling back from the windy shore?
Would he cast his nets in a rain forest
And the blue sea shouting at his door?
I was safe home in time for milking,
None but me saw him come or go;
I was hard put to keep from laughing,
For he never thought I’d push him, you know.
And I sang as I milked,
“Ha-he-he, ha-ha-ho I
Oh, it’s true I loved you once, love.
But that was long ago.”
n.s.w.
NAN McDONALD.
The Ball and Chain.
Somewhere doubtless in space
There was a pigeonhole
In which they had filed the case
Of every wandering soul;
They would never merely forget him
—Lost on some dusty shelf —
Nor, he feared, would they let him
Attempt to forgive himself.
It happened so long ago
He really could not recall
Whether he had struck a blow,
What he had done at all.
No doubt he had slain the deer
Or, by some dreadful chance,
Offered his overseer
To the death of the sun and the ants.
Dimly he knew of a voyage,
A crowded and clamorous ship,
Much cursing and much courage
And backs bared to the whip.
And then in a new country
Where the singing birds were dumb,
An old black crow for sentry,
And love and fighting and rum.
Admitted that transportation
Was tolerable as such;
Lacking his compensation
The goanna endured as much;
Shade could be found in the gully
When the hottest suns were scorching,
Tea bubbled in the billy
At the end of the day’s marching.
But sentence had not been lenient.
If time had dulled the pain,
Life was scarcely convenient
Dragging a ball and chain.
One could disregard it in love
And quite forgot it sleeping
But walking was hard enough
And as for flying or leaping—
Still, one must make the attempt,
One would die of this exile soon;
And that was why he had jumped,
Prodigiously, up to the moon.
A profitless journey he found it
Among the snow and the stone.
Yet the heavens were blazing around it,
He was proud of what he had done.
Who would have dreamed to find him
Striding among the stars,
Huge, with the ball behind him,
Toiling his way to Mars?
When he stood like a giant fishing
While the clear canals ran by.
His mighty shadow went swishing
Dark all over the sky.
Bravely indeed but lame,
The earth dragging his ankle,
He trudged the ice and the flame
On to the next star’s twinkle.
We cannot follow him further.
Back, we surmise, he will come,
Tumbling and yelling blue murder
To the girls and the fists and the rum.
Some homing instinct called him
Perhaps, as it calls the dove;
His memories appalled him,
He hardly expected love,
Yet he went on and on
In the Milky Way’s white glare,
Stepping from stone to stone
Up the steep and broken stair.
N.S.W.
DOUGLAS STEWART.


The Bulletin
Vol. 65—No. 3368.
Wednesday, August 30, 1944.
THE LAST TIME HE’LL SEE PARIS—UNLESS....


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper
“Australia for the White Man”
Directors:
H. K. Prior J. E. Webb
P. H. Prior David Adams
HEAD OFFICE: 252 George Street, Sydney;
Box 252IBB; ’Phone 87971.
Victoria : Newspaper House, 247-249 Collins
Street, Melbourne.
Queensland : 239 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
Westralia: 33 Barrack Street, Perth.
New Zealand : Nathan’s Buildings ( opp.
G.P.0.), Wellington.
London : 1 Hare Place, 47 Fleet Street,
London, E.C.4.
TRULY GREAT.
“England has saved herself by her exer-
tions, and she will, as I trust, save Europe
by her example.” And save Europe she
did, by her exertions as well as her
example, though not till years of misfor-
tune, as well as unfaltering purpose and
high endeavor, succeeded the last proud
utterance of the doomed Pitt. Now,
under God, England has saved Europe
once more. From the impregnable rock
of freedom on which European conquest
always breaks there have rolled back
forces which are breaking Hitler, as in-
exorably as Spanish Philip, Louis the
Fourteenth, Napoleon and the last Kaiser
were broken, however long the master-
criminal may contrive to avert the fate
which has overtaken so many of his
legions and such multitudes of the in-
habitants of bomb-wrecked cities to
whom he promised security.
England fought on when all seemed
lost. Had the English given in, only the
United States and Canada could have
been spared the horrors of Axis invasion,
and they might have been reduced to a
desperate defence of their coasts. Left
to their own resources, the Russians
would have been driven back to the
Urals and beyond the Caucasus. Europe,
most of Asia, Africa, Australia, New
Zealand and such parts of Latin America
as the conquerors chose to take would
have become prizes of victory. Not for
all time, for world conquest cannot be
permanent, and English-speaking free-
men would have redressed the balance ;
but for dark and sorrowful years.
The thought of surrender occurred
only to Communists squealing in their
poisonous papers that it was an “im-
perialist war,” and muttering treason
in places where homeless people
sheltered from the blitz. As has
happened so often in “our rough
island story,” the hour produced the man,
a man whose very appearance is a sym-
bol of the indomitable spirit of the
nation and who expressed it in a few
sentences, simple yet sublime. He said
he had nothing to offer but sweat, blood
and tears. In their pride and faith in
their country and all that it stands for
the British people, from the Court to the
cottage, accepted the gifts.
In industry and agriculture, miracles
of production were wrought. From fac-
tories and yards came a mighty stream
of war materials which were generously
shared with, and nobly carried, often with
cruel losses, to countries whose need was
adjudged greater, our own among them.
The British genius for research and inven-
tion was brought into play with great
and, in some cases, lasting results. The
Old Lady of Threadneedle-street became
the handmaiden of the war effort. Though
taxation was raised to terrific heights,
there was prodigious voluntary giving of
money for the replacement of warships
and aircraft identified with cities, ports
and counties, and for the relief of foreign
victims of war and war-caused famine
and pestilence.
And round the leader there gathered
bands of warriors, mightier in numbers
than and as skilful and tough in battle as
the hosts of old. Some of their com-
manders have already taken their places
among the national heroes who will be
remembered throughout the ages. But,
save for inscriptions on monuments and
mention in regimental histories and the
like, the vast body of officers and “other
ranks” who have helped to give them
their niches in history and to save Eng-
land and the Empire and Europe
will be remembered only as Cun-
ningham’s and Montgomery’s and Alex-
ander’s and Tedder’s men. When it was
proposed to raise a memorial to the Spit-
fire lads who shot Goring’s bombers out
of the English skies, and of whom Mr.
Churchill said “Never in the field of
human conflict was so much owed by so
many to so few”—they came from all
parts of the Empire—the “Times” wrote
“Few of their names are known.”
Of such mettle and vision were the men
charged with the preservation of England,
the Empire and Europe that the plans
for the defeat of Italy and the invasion
of France were shaped in the most peri-
lous, though not the least glorious, period
of the war, when all the equipment of the
B.E.F. had been lost in France and Britain
stood alone.
It has become the fashion to despise
the military pretensions of Italy, but when
the attacks on Mussolini’s empire were
begun, with forces so small that Wavell
had only four tanks, they were universally
accepted. Italy, as populous as the
United Kingdom, ranked as a Great
Power. At the time of the stab in the
back Italy mobilised 64 divisions, had
250,000 troops in Libya, 100,000 in East
Africa, 100,000 in Albania, six battleships,
22 cruisers, 61 destroyers, 71 torpedo-
boats, 105 submarines (with two 35,000-
ton battleships, 14 cruisers and 28 smaller
craft building), a very large merchant
navy and an air force which dwarfed the
machines (in part obsolescent) and crews
at the disposal of Tedder, Coningham and
Cunningham. The overcoming of the
Italians, stiffened as they were by Ger-
mans of all arms, was a wonderful
achievement, which has had a decisive
effect on the course of the war, and it is
not underrating the services of the
Americans from November, 1942, on-
wards to say that it was almost wholly a
British Empire achievement, to which
Australian soldiers, seamen and airmen
made a grand contribution.
The German retreat in Russia began
immediately after El Alamein. Stalin-
grad accelerated it, but from the moment
Rommel started racing west, hoping
to get to French North-west Africa
in time to check the first of the
Anglo - American invasions that were
obviously coming, the Germans knew
they would have to come back. Painfully
they realised that the collapse of Italy
and the loss of the Mediterranean would
impose on them a swift and vast redistri-
bution of their forces. Recent events
have demonstrated that, with the Italians
withdrawn from or lost in Russia, the
Balkans and the south of France, where
they were of priceless service as garrison
troops, and with Sicily and Italy becom-
ing battlegrounds, these forces were not
nearly strong enough or sufficiently well
equipped for the new tasks assigned to
them.
And when their Seventh Army was
shattered in France it was a British gen-
eral, working on the post-Dunkirk plans
adjusted to the situation in Normandy
by his tactical genius, who gave the order
to go forward, becoming the chief instru-
ment of retributive justice and swelling
liberation of a country which had been
under the German heel for upwards of
four years. A British general, who looks
like Sam Weller and talks like Cromwell
flavored with Jack ’Obbs: “Let God
arise, and let His enemies be hit for six! ”
When the liberators were about to
cross the Channel General de Gaulle, in
that moment not stern and unbending,
made a gracious reference to the indebted-
ness of France and the democratic world
to the steadfast British, and when Ameri-
can and French troops were in Paris his
Commissioner of Foreign Affairs spoke
in the same strain:
It was neither at El Alamein nor at
Stalingrad that there began the series of
victories from which today we see wonder-
ful results. No Frenchman will ever forget
that it all began with the Battle of Britain.
Without that battle there would have been
no battle yesterday inside Paris.
“No Frenchman will ever forget.” This
is too much to expect, for times change,
generations pass and among nations, as
among individuals, gratitude is a plant
that withers. A sense of dangers shared
in common and of a common interest in
the reconstruction of Europe on sound
democratic and economic foundations
and friendship proof against new compli-
cations, as well as old suspicions, are all
that need be looked for. And no amount
of friendship on either side will be of any
avail if the spirit of faction which made
France so easy a prey for the spoiler,
which drove Rightists to seek an accom-
modation with Germany and Leftists to
become agents for Russia, even to the
point of working up strikes and coun-
selling soldiers not to fight the enemy on
the frontiers when Russia was Germany’s
partner, is renewed. The French have it
in them to become great again, and they
have friends all the world over who hope
that greatness they will achieve. But it
can only come about if they abandon
the divisions that wrecked them, and if
the De Gaullists temper justice with
mercy. Their leader has fairly lived down
the dislike and distrust with which he was
regarded in at least one Allied country,
and the greatest blessing he could bestow
on France is national unity.
Except for the despised rabble of Com-
munists Britain has had this blessing
throughout the war. It is needed by all
the countries ranged against the Germans
and the Japanese. Who can say that Aus-
tralia possesses it when he contemplates
the proceedings of this Government, the
Government that squandered a month
and a King’s ransom on a hateful refer-
endum which had nothing to do with the
war when it should be devoting all its
time and thought and funds, other than
those required for legitimate civil expen-
diture, to the struggle for survival?
Where is national unity and where
authority when the Government permits
a parcel of coalminers “led” by h Com-
munist, among whom, the Prime Minis-
ter himself has twice declared, are the
scrapings of starting-price shops and dog-
racing joints, shirkers, to strike and
loaf in defiance of their industrial awards
and its own regulations, in the result jolt-
ing the war effort and bringing about
widespread unemployment and curtail-
ment of services? Where, when the
Government turns from making a show
of coercing these rapscallions to hit sav-
agely at a butcher for daring to stand up
to striking coalminers and other elements
of a union mob bent on ruining him?
The crowd in office could have had poli-
tical unity, necessary precursor of national
unity, in 1941, An all-party Govern-
ment on the British model was proposed
by the men then on the Treasury benches.
The offer was refused, Labor being satu-
rated with party spirit, greedy for all the
portfolios (19) and cocksure that it could
save the country and that no other party
could. For its own sake, if not for the
sake of the Commonwealth, it should
renew the 1941 negotiations off its own
bat. If it continues as an inept and guilty
Administration (and there is no warrant
for expecting the slightest improvement),
not only will the country’s affairs drift
from bad to worse but the party will
drivel and totter on to certain defeat at
the polls, whether or not it first tears
itself to pieces, as it did in 1931.
Food for J. Bull.
If he were relying on what Australia
sends him to eat, J.B. would apparently
need redrawing after the model of Cassius.
His cupboard representative here, Mr, W.
Bankes Amery, was reported as having
stated in Sydney on August 17 that “ships
were available to take food to Britain
from Australia and New Zealand, but
there were no cargoes offering.” A few
days later Mr. Amery denied that he had
said that “ships were returning empty to
England,” which might or might not
amount to a correction of his earlier state-
ment. Anyway, words he did not retract
sounded bad enough.
He said that at the present time, when
the people of Britain are living on the
lowest ration for any period during the
past five years, Australian exports of meat
and butter to Britain had fallen by more
than half what they were in the first year
of the war. Britain had had to make
great sacrifices on the home front to pro-
vide the food for the invasion fronts ; its
capacity to maintain the present meagre
butter ration—2oz. per week —depended
on supplies sent from Australia and New
Zealand ; the food situation would be
critical for the next four years. Mr.
Amery “appealed” to Australia to “send
all possible food to Britain during that
period,” and promised that the ships
would be available to take it.
Actually none of this was new. As far
back as February Mr. Holt quoted de-
partmental figures in the House. A brazen
attempt was made to block them from
getting into “Hansard” ; they got there
at the instance of the Speaker, despite
Mr, Dedman’s objection. In 1939-40
(Mr, Holt quoted) Australia supplied to
Britain approximately 109,000 tons of
butter; in 1940-41, 77,000 tons ; in 1942-
43, 49,000 tons.
Mr. Dedman: A large number of Ameri-
can service men arrived in Australia during
that period.
Mr. Holt: We have heard that story
before. If the Minister will tell the House
how many Americans arrived in Australia
we shall be able to get a true picture. No
member will be misled by that story.
In 1939-40, Mr. Holt proceeded, Aus-
tralia sent Britain 40,000,0001 b. of cheese;
in 1940-41, 22,000,0001 b.; in 1942-43,
15,000,0001 b. In 1939-40 Australia sent
Britain 10,000,000 dozen eggs in the shell;
1940-41, 17,000,000 dozen; 1942-43,
none. Meat: 1939-40,260,000t0ns ; 1940-
41, 216,000 tons ; 1942-43, 109,000 tons.
The cat having been thus forced out
of the bag, Mr. Dedman made another
of his crowd’s typical shifts to put the
blame elsewhere: “Has the honorable
gentleman taken into account the avail-
ability of shipping?” Mr. Holt had.
Even at that date he was able to point
to a then recent statement of Mr. Bankes
Amery that shipping was “no longer a
limiting factor.” That Mr. Amery should
have found it necessary to repeat this,
with added emphasis, more than six
months later would seem pretty signifi-
cant of what has happened in the mean-
time, though, “for security reasons,” no
more figures were permitted to leak out—
until Mr. Amery’s latest statement forced
the issue.
Then, on August 22, a nicely-dressed
lot of 'figures was paraded. The dressing
included an official “expectation” (for
what such things have come to be worth)
that Britain’s minimum requirements in
meat, 160,000 tons, would this yeaf be
met; maximum requirements unstated.
Butter showed “a marked decline” in
1943-44, Britain receiving 41,718 tons;
it had asked for 45,000 tons. Butter pro-
duction was 18,000 tons under the “target”
of 175,000 tons on which Mr. Scully
blithely enlarged. Jf the cheese “target”
is reached Britain’s share will be only
17,600,0001 b. down on the 1939-40 figure.
Before the February debate was over
Mr, Dedman had a couple more wriggles
to make. He declared that “our produc-
tion of whole-milk has improved very
greatly,” and he fell back on the blanket-
ing resort, “the very limited supply of
labor-power available,” owing, of course
to the numbers in the forces. As for the
boasted great improvement in the whole-
milk line, Mr. Abbott was able to show
(quoting Mr. Curtin) a drop in Austra-
lian production between 1939-40 and
1942-43 of 128,000,000 gallons.
Understandably, there is no attempt at
reticence about food production figures
in Canada. On the contrary, there is
evident pride in giving them out to the
world, particularly those relating to sup-
plies to Britain, and Britain’s gratitude
has been expressed, along with tables of
the figures, in London “Times.” In one
appreciation the “Times” paid a special
tribute to the planning by the respon-
sible Canadian Minister, Mr. Gardiner,
who early in the war gave the farmers a
slogan to live up to: “Produce all you
can, for Britain needs it.” A national
policy for agriculture was drawn up, with
subsidies and bonuses designed to increase
the right sort of production, and with
production objectives—or, as Mr. Scully
vainly calls them, targets—set for indi-
vidual farmers, as well as for districts
and provinces; the objectives set for
each agricultural commodity by com-
mittees composed of persons familiar
with each product.
Under the planned Canadian system,
the wheat area, 28,000,000 acres in 1940,
is now down to 7,500,000 acres, effort
being concentrated on more needed sup-
plies. Canada’s total food production
shows a rise of 40 per cent, since 1940,
despite that huge cut in wheat and about
400.000 men and 100,000 women having
gone from the farms to the forces and
the factories. While Australia’s meat and
butter exports to Britain have dropped to
“less than half,” Canada “has succeeded
in meeting the majority of the requests
that Britain has made for food and in
some cases has shipped more than Britain
sought.” At the same time it has sent
great gifts of wheat and other foodstuffs
to stricken Greece and has received the
thanks of Prime Minister Papandreou,
expressed in moving words: “Let all
Canadians know that the food grown in
the rich and free lands of their fine coun-
try is helping to save the life of a nation
on whose soil liberty was first born.”
In a pre-war year Canada sent Britain
about 112,000,0001 b. of bacon; with the
Danish supply cut off, increasing this
became one of the planned objectives. By
1942 Canada was meeting British con-
tracts for 600,000,0001 b.; last year this
was increased by a further 75,000,0001 b.
For this year and next Canada has
undertaken to send Britain a mini-
mum of 900,000,0001 b. of bacon, and
Canadian farmers are confident that
before this coming December more than
600.000. of that total will already
have been sent. The contract is being
lengthened to four years, both to meet
probable needs and to enable the Cana-
dian farmers to see well ahead of them.
The result of Canada’s effort in this
one commodity is that Britain’s bacon
ration—4oz. a week—can “easily be
maintained,” and the same story can be
told of other Canadian food production.
Cheese down 25,000,0001 b. in 1942-
43 Australian export to Britain—is
in Canada up 25,000,0001 b. (1943) on
the previous year’s 150,000,0001 b. While
eggs sent from Australia to Britain
dropped from 17,000,000 dozen and over
1.000. dozen dried in 1940-41 to nil
in the shell and 250,000 dozen dried in
1942-43, Canada is this year sending
63.000. dozen dried to Britain, easily
the largest export of this kind Canada
has ever made.
This goes for other Canadian achieve-
ments in planned food production, includ-
ing such items, for the year ended last
March, as 668,000 cases of evaporated
milk, each case containing 48 tins;
55.000 tons of dehydrated vegetables, and
so forth. It needs pointing out, too, that
Canada did not come into the war with
an Opposition clamoring, like the then
Australian Opposition (now the Govern-
ment), that the country’s major war role
should be that of breadbasket-in-chief to
the belligerents. Canada is one of the fight-
ing Dominions; with New Zealand and
South Africa, well represented by divi-
sions in Europe.
Canada’s great food-production effort
readily explains that Dominion’s election
to chairmanship of the Committee on
Supplies and to membership of the Com-
mittee on Europe of U.N.R.R.A. On
the reverse side of the comparison might
be found inscribed an explanation of the
reported lamentable lack of interest m
Britain in the Great Australian Referen-
dum. They might be interested in other
things over there —the war, which looks
to be going all right from here, where
there may even be surprise that it is still
on ; and 2oz. of butter and Is. 4d. worm
of meat a week, and other suchlike
unheard-of things.


PLAIN ENGLISH
Post-Referendum Questions.
Labor-Communist expectations that ser-
vice votes would greatly reduce the No
majority at the referendum (335,000 at
the week-end) were rudely disappointed.
First bundles counted gave Yes a 5-to-4
majority. This fell away, and among
Queenslanders and Tasmanians Noes were
in the ascendant. A parcel from Queens-
land, where Mr. Forde (he is a Queens-
land member) and Mr. Ward spread the
light, showed 17,115 against the Army
Minister and 12,134 for.
There are lots of things about the
referendum that call for inquiry. First,
as to these service votes. If what hap-
pened in one New Guinea camp is any
criterion Yes propagandists had the field
to themselves.
Then there is the matter of the £50,000
taken from the Treasury without Parlia-
mentary sanction —if it ‘was only £50,000
—to put the Labor “case.” The Opposi-
tion has the right and duty to demand
precise and detailed accounts of this
iniquitous expenditure. It should never
rest until it finds out how the money was
spent and who got it, if the pursuit lasts
for years.
“Save Paper!” was the Government’s
slogan before the referendum. Tons of
letter-paper bearing the Commonwealth
coat of arms and posted in foolscap enve-
lopes, all presumably taken from stock,
were expended in turgid appeals to house-
holders,. signed as under;
And there were thousands of news-
paper advertisements, authorised some-
times by the same gentlemen and some-
times by “The Government of the Com-
monwealth.” One in which Dr. Evatt
(with two portraits) discoursed on his
travels and their pregnant results to the
nation was signed as under:
The difference between the Attorney-
General’s signatures is very peculiar. If
the doctor changes them with such aban-
don he must be a trial to his bank.
Lastly (for the present, at any rate)
there is the matter of the alleged Japa-
nese instruction to Australians to vote
No. It formed the subject of two dis-
graceful cartoons; three copies of one
were stuck on a post in front of the
Commonwealth Bank’s Sydney head-
quarters and remained there last week.
The appeal is alleged to have come from
a station at Batavia, Japanese-controlled,
of course, and the Department of Infor-
mation’s monitor service is given as trans-
lator and authority. It is not only scan-
dalous that the Department of Infor-
mation should be used as an instrument
of Labor policy groping in the gutter;
on the face of it, the whole sordid busi-
ness made a hole in all the regulations
governing enemy communications.
Intern Dargin!
Demand for a Third Front:
Curtin Government has dallied too long
with Peter Dargin, the Portland (N.S.W.)
butcher. There might have been some excuse
for being patient with a fellow who seemed to
think that this was a free country in which,
being the owner of a business, he could exercise
ms own choice of persons to pay wages to, but
since bluff and threats have failed to impress
him it s time some action was taken.
Here is a man who, when the issue is forced
9 n bun, refuses to bow to a union mob shout-
mg Take that girl back or we’ll ruin yuh”;
wh°» when he hears that the Teachers’ Federa-
tion ( Boycott the W.E.A.!”) is backing the
moo, merely laughs and stands firm; who, when
the entire union population strikes as a pro-
test against him, laughs again and keeps his
teet firmly fixed on Australian ground. And
this in spite of Dr. Evatt’s pre-referendum dic-
tum that the right to hire and fire must be taken
away from the boss by the Movement. Wasn’t
the strike inspired by talk like that? Didn’t
the strikers believe that the no-Labor Gov-
would stick to them in accordance with
its previous, present and continuous perform-
ances with strikers? Of course they did. Then
what does the Government mean by shilly-
shallying with Peter Dargin?
True, the Government has weighed in with
a license for an opposition shop, to be run
by Corns.—no, “co-operatives”; but that is
only appeasement. So is the promise to give
the first job in it to the girl whom Dargin
dismissed. It sno use saying, as a Comrade
did. We all hope it will put Dargin out of
business. No use Comrade—sorry, Senator —
Keane pointing out that the granting of the
license has nothing to do with the strike be-
cause Portland should have another butcher’s
shop. All enemies of progress and mob rule
will sneer that Portland got along all right for
four war years without an extra license And
what’s the good of having Minister Chifley for
Federal member and Minister Hamilton Knight
State member if Dargin is allowed to keep
P om B ■ 91 S? u ( se ’ there was a big No majority
in. Mr. Chifley s electorate, but the Ministei
with the martial name has always been ready
tt» truckle to work-stoppers at the Government
abattoirs at Homebush.
Admittedly, if the new stunt works, and
Ministers Keane, Scully, Chifley and Hamilton
Knight and Chairman-of-Committees Booth and
the rest must hope it will, it may put Dargin out
of business. But it’s bound to cause trouble,
because people will say that meat rationing and
the quota system are being used for political
purposes and mob-flattering, and it will take
months to work out means of getting meat to
the co-op. shop. There are the Meat Con-
troller and the Man-power and the W. 0.1. and
a lot of other authorities to be pushed around.
And there is the possibility, however remote,
that Portland people will keep on getting their
meat from Dargin, either because they like his
meat or like his style.
Plainly, it won’t do. The Curtin Govern-
ment should intern or deport or man-power
Dargin at once and show the electors that,
even if they refused it the powers it asked
for, charging them £200,000 for the asking,
it at least has the power to wreck anybody
who stands up against mob rule.
Open up a Third Front against Dargin now!
The Heroes of Warsaw.
Moscow has notified Mr. Maloney that
it no longer recognises Australia as Poland’s
Protecting Power.
Moscow propaganda was very clever
when Losovsky was in his glory, but it
has degenerated frightfully this year.
In view of Russia’s relations with the
Allies on which it has leaned so heavily
for weapons, munitions and supplies of
all descriptions, and for the great strokes
of Eisenhower, Alexander and Mont-
gomery, nothing could be sillier than
“Pravda’s” charge that Britain was in-
triguing with Ribbentrop for a separate
peace, unless it was “Izvestia’s” attack
on the Vatican as Fascist, And such
attempts as have been made to justify
the refusal of Russian help to the Poles
heroically fighting in Warsaw, at a time
when Stalin was saying to the Red Air
Force, in an Order of the Day, “You
have complete aerial mastery over the
enemy,” were paltry in the extreme.
Unspeakably so was “Pravda’s” con-
tribution, as reported in the virulently
anti-Pole Sydney “D.T.” Beginning with
an empty compliment to the defenders,
“Pravda” criticised “the leadership,” say-
ing that “the Red Army” had “always
warned people against such risings.” This
when Moscow is never done extolling the
“risings” of guerrillas and partisans when
they are of the right color.
Little about the Warsaw affair has
been published in Australia, where reports
from the Eastern Front are so flattering
to the Russians that the stuff automati-
cally becomes Communist propaganda ;
but it has become an absorbing topic in
Britain. More especially as many R.A.F.
’planes and crews have been lost in carry-
ing supplies and ammunition from Italy
to the men fighting so splendidly, supplies
and ammunition which could have been
furnished in far greater volume and with
a minimum of loss, if any, from the other
side of the Vistula. And it is easy to
imagine the indignation felt in the United
States, so traditionally sympathetic with
Poland, and with so great a population
of Polish descent.
“People of Warsaw, to arms! Assist
the Red Army in crossing the Vistula.
Over a million inhabitants opght to be-
come an army of a million men fighting
for liberation and for the destruction of
the German invaders.” This came from
the Moscow-controlled Kosciuszko Radio
on July 30, and was one of 13 appeals
addressed to the Varsovians from the
same quarter since June 2. But it was
another pair of sleeves when arms were
taken up by men who object to the Russi-
fying of half their country and the plant-
ing of a servile Communist “Govern-
ment” in the rest.
British expressions of sympathy with
the garrison have! come from a diversity
of people, among them the diplomatic
correspondent of the “Times,” Lord Van-
sittart and the editor of the Leftist
“Tribune,” From a “Tribune” article:—■
It is no use Communists saying the
rising was premature. Risings cannot be
set like stop-watches. Marx commented
on the Paris Commune: “It was historically
premature, but, having broken out, was
deserving of the fullest help.” This is
the position in Warsaw today. It may be
the position in a dozen other cities to-
morrow.
Communards, as well as Marx, are
gods of Australian Communists’ idolatry ;
and there is—or was—a Soviet warship
named Parizhskaia-Kommuna.
Menzies.
The referendum campaign made one
thing clear —Menzies is breaking down
the irrational prejudice against him im-
planted in unsuspecting minds by Com-
munists, Labor writers employed on
papers which used to be anti-Labor and
higher-ups whose hostility springs from
other causes, whatever they may be.
In his last meeting in his own consti-
tuency of Kooyong, every subdivision of
which polled a commanding No majority,
the Opposition-leader was at the top of
his form. On this occasion the interjec-
tors were not all Communists, but, what-
ever they were, he scored off them.
A Voice: Did you listen-in to Isaacs?
Menzies : No, I didn’t —I was busy
making a speech myself.
The Voice: He didn’t agree with you.
Menzies: You can’t terrify me by
waving his name in front of me.
The Voice: But you are trying to terrify
us.
Menzies : Two looks at you are sufficient
to show me that that is impossible. I notice
the Yes advocates are even dragging in
the name of Mr. W. M. Hughes to support
their case. When I remember some" of the
things the Labor party said about Mr.
W. M. Hughes, I think that perhaps some
day even the Communists may say nice
things about me. I must add, for good
measure, that I profoundly hope not.
A Voice: Now you are getting angry.
Menfies Not at all; I have nothing but
contempt for the Commos. Why is the
Government resorting to the device of
placing all the powers in one bill?
A Voice : They are saving paper.
Menzies: I haven’t noticed much paper-
saving during this campaign. We are
being flooded* with propaganda.
The Voice ; One power is interlocked
with the other.
Menzies: Ah! I’ve been waiting for
that one. I notice Mr. Scullin said that
the other night. We are accustomed to
having our intelligences insulted in election
campaigns, but
A Voice: Be careful. Bob!
Menzies: I wasn’t worrying about insult-.
ing yours, old man. The answer to the inter-
locking argument is to take the powers and
look at them. Do you think the powers re-
lating to repatriation, which Mr. Hughes
himself has described as a piece of window-
dressing—l agree with him —interlock with
those relating to control of the aborigines?
(Continued on page 8.)
BRINGING UP THE HEAVIES.
“As another stage in the war on the Portland (N.S.W.) butcher, Senator Keane (Minister of Customs), working in with Minister
Scully (Commerce) and Treasurer Chifley (member for the district), has issued a license for another butcher’s shop to the local
branch of the co-operative movement, which in N. S. Wales enjoys Labor-Communist patronage.”


[For Referendum matter, J. E. Webb and
David Adams, 252 George-street North, Sydney,
are responsible.]
FOR 65 YEARS
the
Mercantile Mutual
INSURANCE CO., LTD.,
An Australian Institution, has been pro-
viding security for the homes of the
people, giving service to thou-
sands throughout the land.
Fire, Accident, Motor Car
Householders and Houseowners'
Comprehensive (Combined) Insurance.
Insure Australian Property in an
Australian Insurance Company.
Head Office:
117 Pitt Street, Sydney.
SELWYN KING, Managing Director.
k&M
//7 V7M^?7T'C
HOGGET
MILITARY TAN
makes the shine
AND THE
BOOTS
lasi longer
Because the shine lasts longer, you look
smarter. Because the boots last longer,
you're more comfortable. Do yourself
good-get "Nugget'-the Military Tan
with the real, rich mahogany glow.
oVi
pr«»* ,r
'o v J
ov
42/IA
INCOME TAX RETURNS
MADE EASY.
The Shipley Account Book
with Taxation Guide
(Copyright)
Specially prepared for GRAZIERS, DAIRY
FARMERS, ORCHARDISTS, AND ALL
PRIMARY PRODUCERS.
EVERY ITEM FOR TAX RETURNS
FULLY EXPLAINED. YOU CAN’T GO
WRONG. OVER 1,000 COPIES SOLD.
The large number of testimonials received
from satisfied purchasers, prove the mest-
unable value of our Taxation Guide ana
Account Book.
DON’T WORRY OVER INCOME TAX
RETURNS. THE READY RECKONER
SHOWS AMOUNT OF TAX PAYABLE
Order Now—PRICE, £1
1/- extra for Postage and Exchange,
obtainable only from
J. SHIPLEY & CO.,
PUBLISHERS,
THE METROPOLITAN BUILDING,
56 HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY.
Legally, the war began when a proclamation
was issued that we were at war. Legally,
it will end when a proclamation is issued
that we are no longer at war.
A Voice; Some lawyers disagree with
you.
Menzies: They frequently do. But you
are obviously not a lawyer.
The Voice: I wouldn’t be one at any
price!
Menzies: Ah, well, some people were
born to be clients.
And so it went on, lucid exposition and
telling argument salted with apt repartee.
The foregoing report, condensed, is
from the Melbourne “Age.” The “Age’
often differs from the member for Koo-
yong—it did on the referendum —but it
always reports him fairly. Other papers
which dislike him and his politics have a
way of leaving out his best things. Their
paltry attitude has become as ineffectual
as the outrageous puffing of Mr. Curtin,
POLITICAL POINTS
Its referendum rejected and its coal
“policy” beyond redemption, the Curtin
Government is meeting Parliament again.
Though it nominally commands 49 votes
in the House and 22 in the Senate even its
press friends allow that it may not see
the year out. Not that they have turned
on the P.M. One effusive young gentleman
sums him up as “the only politician of a
decade who has impressed his personality
on fully representative cross-sections of
Australian public opinion,” and even lauds
his Ministers —“on the whole,” they “do
better than their Very
prudently, the panegyrist doesn’t name
the Ministers who are so superior to the
late Fairbairn, Street and Gullett, and
to Archie Cameron, McLeay, Mcßride,
Fadden, McEwen and Hughes,
At a pre-war Premiers’ conference a
grant of life passes over the Australian
railways (and Maoriland accepts them) to
Commonwealth and State Ministers after
three years’ service was about the only
“business” done. More was on the pro-
gramme last .week, grandiose plans for
works and housing (£19,927,800 in 1944-
45 and £193,000,000 after the war) being
approved of, but the question of life rail-
way passes came up again. It was decided
to extend them to V.Cs., and to that
nobody objects. There are only a few
V.Cs. At a given moment there are
always 79 Ministers who have met or are
meeting the requirement for the toting
of their frames in wheeled caravans from
hither to yon till death,doth them part,
and at any time there may be more.
Victoria’s Government visualises the
building of 20,000 homes a year for ten
years, as well as an enormous programme
of water conservation. Anent the houses,
A. P. Miller, of the Eureka Tile Go.,
sounds a note of warning. War-time
organisation, he says, has disorganised all
the trades concerned. Their normal out-
put in Victoria before the war was 7000
p.a. It might be possible to reach 10,000
homes a year or two after the war,
but not even that if builders are to be
tyrannised over by departmental officials.
“Nothing is changed ; there is only one
Frenchman more.” So said the Bourbon
King who was escorted to Paris by the
Allies in 1814 while they were escorting
Napoleon to Elba —in 1815 they had to
do the escorting over again. De Gaulle,
returning to Paris with another lot of
Allies, might have said (though he didn’t)
“Nothing is changed ; there is only one
Government less”—Petain’s. What hap-
pened to the Vichy crowd is not yet clear,
but there was a wild rush of neutrals to
break off relations with it.
It was here pointed out to servicemen
in the north (B. 2/ 8 / ’44) that it was to
Forde, as the soldiers’ Minister, they
would have to look for delivery of the
gifts promised and preservation from the
calamities threatened during the referen-
dum campaign. Obviously the prospect
did not please. Queensland, Queensland
servicemen and Forde’s electorate polled
stunning No majorities.
Unless somebody throws a spanner into
the works the N.S.W. Democrats (late
U.A.P.) and Liberal Democrats are to
come together as United Democrats.
Labels matter less than the appointment
of an organisation director with drive and
sand. Old Digger E. L. White is the
obvious choice.
The Commonwealth offer of 6s. a day
for hospital patients in public wards has
been extended to patients in private hos-
pitals and intermediate wards of public
hospitals, and on that basis the Premiers
have accepted it. It will complicate their
existing arrangements, but they never
look a gift horse in the mouth.
The Premiers at Canberra turned their
thumbs down on daylight saving. A
failure in the last war, being a special
misery to mothers and farmers, the thing
was “demanded” again by a parcel of
pressmen who always want to be imitat-
ing somebody, or something, and a com-
plaisant Government gave it to them.
Almost everybody voted it a nuisance,
and the coal it was to have savecf was
scarcely equivalent to a day’s production-
loss on the northern (N.S.W.) fields.
Melbourne “Argus” has given up try-
ing to raise money for the equipment of
Soviet House, Flinders-lane, its holy of
holies in other years. During the month
in which it offered to receive as well
as to acknowledge donations, only
£l5 or so came in, £lO being from the
St. Kilda branch of the Soviet Friend-
ship League, which would have sent the
tenner anyhow. The only fiasco of the
sort in the history of a paper which has
helped to raise millions for worthy causes.*
Seventeen of the twenty Brisbane city
aldermen, who get £4OO a year, are ask-
ing for a rise to £5OO. The other three
refused to sign the memorial, and Lord
Mayor Chandler’s signature was also
THE INCREDIBLE.
“By permission of the authorities, mechanical toys are to go on the market again.”
“Better than the real thing, gents —it does work.”
missing—Chandler, entitled to £lOOO a
year, doesn’t take it. Members of the
House of Commons, whose province is,
as it were, the world, get £6OO a year,
Queensland State politicians are on £650,
plus £5O for postage and telegrams and
travelling allowances, up to £lOO, for
country members. It is suggested that
they also should ask for a rise, but some
have pointed out that, under present con-
ditions, it would mean so little that reduc-
tion of income tax might work out better.
And the usual spoil-sport has arisen wit
a reminder that the Curtins pegged wages
and salaries in 1942—0 r did they?
auu aaianta iu ,
Position on the Westralian goldfields,
described by James Cornell, M.L.C. fo
a goldfields province and Chairman o
Committees:—
1 Aten°in b tS
thousand have left, and, as it is considered
that every working miner carries four other
individuals, that means 40,000 other indi*
Viduals have gone. You can see the effects
in Kalgoorlie and Boulder. In the main
street of Boulder 65 p.c. of the shops are
empty, and wherever you go on the gold-
fields it is much the same.
Yet Kalgoorlie remained faithful to the
Government which has brought about
these conditions. The oldest inhabitant
can’t remember when Kalgoorlie voted
No at a Commonwealth referendum.
Canberra people are without votes, but
they have memories, and they have been
amusing themselves recalling the circum-
stances in which the Evatt referendum
measure “Constitutional Alteration
(Post-war Reconstruction and Demo-
cratic Rights) Bill” was the gorgeous title
—was forced through the Senate. It was
necessary to secure the attendance of two
elderly gentlemen with a bent for wan-
dering, and by heroic exertions this was
done. The debate began at 2.12 p.m. on
March 22, and, with intervals for refresh-
ment, lasted till 6.45 a.m. on March 23 ,
then, after an interval of eight hours for
slumber, there was a call of the House.
No casualties, but after one division &
hollow voice was heard asking “Is it right
to take the vote of a man the worse for
liquor?”
In a pamphlet containing an alleged
balance sheet and a prophetic sentence
“This will not satisfy The Bulletin” (it
doesn’t), Thornton, of the Ironworkers,
or whatever he calls his Red Racket
now, states that “full-rate members pay
Bs. per quarter.” Levies are additional.
One of sixpence a head was struck at
Newcastle for the Red Racket’s Yes cam-
paign. Workers at one plant revolted and
issued a scorching circular closing with
the words “Any union that denies its
members the right to decide any impor-
tant industrial or political question is not
a un ion but a tyrannical body.” There
was a Yes majority at Newcastle, but,
significantly, it was only a fraction of
the average Labor majority in Newcastle
elections.
Barely able to conceal his gratification,
a Mr Doig manager c f the Portland
Co-operative Society, told a Sydney news-
rpnm-ter that when his society
paper reporter that when ms society
opened its new butchery—a license hav-
ing been granted by Senator Keane at
tbe bebest an ill-conditioned mob—it
Hoped to put Peter Dargin out of busi-
ness and “we’ve almost completed
arrangements for the delivery of a re-
frigerator. No returned A.I.F. man
need assume from this that he’ll get the
comPl trpQtmpnt if hp to set no in
same treatment it he wants to set up in
business.
The “Barrier Daily Truth” (Labor)
stated (22/8/’44) that “South Australian
railwaymen have threatened to hold a
stop-work meeting over the fining of
junior porters for failure to attend lec-
tures” (they stopped the trains from mid-
night on Sunday to midnight on Monday
to “consider further action”). On the
next page was a double-column advertise-
ment calling a meeting of the Town Em-
ployees’ Union and issuing a warning:
“Members not *in attendance will be
fined.” Discipline has two meanings for
the union boss.
In a 130-page booklet on air-raid pre-
cautions just issued by the Department of
Home Security emphasis is put on the
necessity “to prepare for long raids,
especially by day.”
But although night raids of long duration
are not likely to occur under present con-
ditions they cannot be dismissed. In more
congested dwelling areas more substantial
shelters, with sleeping accommodation, may
be necessary.
The booklet contains 70 pages of illustra-
tions and gives information on types of
shelters, furnishing, lighting, heating,
cleaning and “control of excitment.” The
department (Lazzarini’s) has evidently
been keeping its excitement under control
. ever since the threat of a Japanese inva-
sion.
Extract from a Sydney “D.T.” leader:
When France fell in 1940, Hitler thought
the war was over. It would have ended
had not the ordinary men and women of
Britain and of Russia shown that they could
stick out anything—and wait their turn.
Russia waited for its “turn” till June 22,
1941.
Such things as practical economy never
worry the bright boys hired by Canberra
to reconstruct us. Which probably
accounts for the splendid optimism of the
statement that
Whatever may happen farther afield, the
countries bordering the Pacific, with its area
of 68,000,000 square miles, will offer a
market with immense possibilities for Aus-
tralian clothing, foodstuffs, machinery, etc.
Sounds good, but who is going to recon-
cile the difference between the cost of
production in high-wage, short-hours
Australia and what the natives of them
there countries can afford to pay?
Miles, the Communists’ general secre-
tary, made a referendum tour of the con-
tinent —travel priorities don’t matter
when Corns, put the screws on—and cast
up in Perth to say:
The Yes movement grows in all States
The Labor party, trade-union and Com-
munist party co-operation will help to ensure
a majority. So will the other people’s Yes
committees.
But other people’s No sentiments pre-
vailed. Presumably they are now “Fas-
cists” to Corns.


YOUR place in a Tank Crew
'jjSvil- ..£>&' ■ ■■■' :y ' v '?
-a
s*e
You may not be there in person,
but you can help some tank
crew by taking more than extra
care of your Exide House-light-
ing Batteries. This saves vital
materials and man-power needed
to provide batteries for our
Fighting Forces, who depend
upon Exide for over 100 services.
Take no chances with your house-lighting equipment. Consult
your wall chart regularly and get in touch with your Exide
distributor in your State immediately you suspect the need for
renewals or repair.
HOUSE-LIGHTING BATTERIES
STILL KEEP GOING WHEN THE REST HAVE STOPPED.
PERSONAL ITEMS
W. E. Lee (the second initial stands for
Ted), who goes to Washington as Aus-
tralia’s shipping representative in the
United States and Canada, was until 2\
years ago shipping manager of Birt and
Co., Sydney. Since then he has been on
the staff of the British Ministry for War
Transport in Australia. Lee’s long asso-
ciation with Birt and Co. and its knight
Tom Gordon is rivalled only by bis
record as a breaker of the Sabbath morn
on Roseville (Sydney) golf links.
“Bo,” of The Bulletin; —-
Stanley William Keough—“Bo” of “Smoke-
oh,” author of Around the Army and the equally
authoritative Hints to Husbands, due on the
bookstalls any day now —inherited humor from
a telegraphist father who made appearances at
the old Sydney Palace and Criterion as a
character actor and comedian with Philip
Lytton. One of the platoon or two of ex-
Digs. entrenched at 252 George-street, “Bo”
had three and a half years’ service in the last
scrap and yet was back in Sydney in time for
his 21st birthday. An older brother had already
gone, so “Bo,” having reached the reflective
age of 17, decided to give it a fly, too. Telling
his dad that he was going to Katoomba, he
rigged his upwards of sft. and 9st. in riding
breeches, leggings and spurs and strode forth to
enlist, hoping that the military might mistake
him for a horseman. Naturally, it did, and, as
“Bo” knew as much about signalling as he
oid about horsemanship, he was soon able to
return “from Katoomba” and confront his
parent with a fait accompli, in A.I.F. uniform
as a fully-fledged sig. The parental “Go back
and tell them to consider you scratched for all
engagements” having been wangled into con-
sent, and training in that war having been re-
S. W. KEOUGH.
garded either as superfluous or infra dig. “Bo”
was over there in time to come out of the first
Pozjgres show for his 18th birthday. Of his
Around the Army sketches the one on cooks is
possibly the most autobiographical. He tried
his hand at babbing in France, and Charlie
Bean’s failure to include him in the Aus-
tralian Official History as the worst cook on
the Western Front can be put down to pure
oversight. Back with N.S.W. Railways, where
he’d started shortly before enlisting, “Bo”
upset all expectations by slugging away till he’d
qualified, through Repat., as an accountant,
then settled down to show his real worth as
a Public Servant by writing humorous items for
The Bulletin, till, some nine years back, he
finally wrote himself on to the staff. His Hints
to Husbands is being published by Dymocks,
with Scorfield illustrations.
John Alfred Isaacs, brother of former
Governor-General Isaac Isaacs, was, at
83, the third octogenarian Melbourne
solicitor to pass on within a week.
Trumble and Marshall Lyle were the
other two. An ardent lover of the turf
but not a heavy bettor, John Isaacs in his
earlier days was a bosom friend of the
late Dr. Maloney, Unusual among law-
yers, both the brothers were excellent
calligraphists. John sat with his brother
in the Victorian Assembly from 1894, and
remained there when Isaac transferred
to Commonwealth politics—till 1902,
“Laudator Temporis Acti”: Judging
by the stature of many of the new bishops
in Australia and New Zealand the R.C.
Church in the Pacific seems to have
abandoned the tradition of physically big
men. Vaughan, Moran (Australia’s only
cardinal), Kelly and Sheehan, all of Syd-
ney, were physical giants. Today Mannix
of Melbourne and Duhig of Queensland
are the only arch-prelates left of any
commanding stature. Nor was the brawn
without brain. In the seventies and early
eighties Vaughan was famous as 9.
preacher. Moran, his successor, came to
Australia with a European reputation as
a scholar, while Sheehan, a noted master
of Greek, had studied at Oxford and
Bonn before he became a professor at
Maynooth, where Mannix was both pro-
fessor and president.
Howard Lloyd, in his 75th year, retires
from the Adelaide Board of A.M.P.,
according to its age limit. Other bodies
are not so arbitrary, and Lloyd will not
be idle, being chairman of the Bank of
Adelaide and of the S.A. Brewing Co.,
also on the board of Goldsbrough Mort,
S.A. Gas, Adelaide Steamship and the
Governors of St. Peter’s College.
“Nakhoda”: The H. V. McKay-Massey
Harris diamond jubilee, celebrated with great
pomp and circumstance at the Town Hall, Mel-
bourne, reminds me. I was travelling on a
peasant train between Vladivostok and Moscow
just before the last war when the jangling and
crashing of a long goods train awakened me one
cold Siberian night, and looking out of the
window I saw a long line of hooded trucks pass-
ing. A tarpaulin blew up and I caught the
glitter of red and green paint and the words
“Sunshine, Victoria, Australia,” in bright letters.
They were a consignment of McKay strippers
and binders going to garner the grain in Man-
churia. I saw lots more of them later in other
Asiatic countries. H. V. McKay, the founder,
evolved his first winnower-stripper in a farm
blacksmith’s shop at Ray wood, much to the
amusement of incredulous locals. He gave' his
first public demonstration in 1885, but it wasn’t
till 10 years later that he was able to assemble
enough finance, to start a small factory at
Ballarat. By 1900 he was employing 200
workers, since swelled to 2000. The drought
of 1902 and the falling-off in local demand
sent the firm questing into foreign parts. A
shipment was sent to South America and the
success was astounding. By 1914 the River
Plate region was using 10,000 of the machines.
Sunshine was founded in 1906 and by 1930
the factory was occupying 80 acres, with its
model suburb adjoining. Cecil Newton McKay,
son of the founder, is the only direct descendant
now connected with Sunshine.
Whep Andrew Fair weather retired
from the presidency of Mining Managers’
Assoc, at Broken Hill, “Barrier Daily
Truth,” the Labor paper there, remarked
that “Mr. Fairweather has engaged our
side in very many discussions and even
bitter struggles, but it is safe to say that
he leaves the field of such combats with
the personal good wishes of those with
whom he crossed swords probably
the most capable representative that the
owners of industry have unearthed in
Australia.... a personification of the
principle of ‘my word is my bond,’ ”
Born in Adelaide in 1882, Fairweather
won a scholarship to Whinham College,
won another to the University Mining
Course and got his B.Sc. degree. He
started work underground at the Hill in
1903, rose to underground foreman and
underground superintendent, y/as mine
super, in 1920 and g.m. in 1937. He
became president of the M.M.A. in 1934
and during his term there were no com-
plete stoppages of,work. He is succeeded
by George Fisher, whom the “B.D.
Truth” fully expects to maintain the
Fairweather tradition.
Tasmania’s new Commissioner of Police
Harry Hill, until recently superintendent
at Burnie, is, like a good many other of
his comrades of the Force in Tassy, an
enthusiastic fisherman, and in his spare
time mingles a spot of gardening with a
good game of billiards. He’s six years
off the retiring age, but told a gathering
the other day that he considered a man
had done a fair job of work by the time
he’s sixty,
“Uramao”: When, on the eve of D-
Day, Eisenhower took the combined
weather forecasts of naval, R.A.F, and
U.S.A.F. experts to guide him in deter-
mining the time for the invasion, one of
the chaps who helped to advise him was
a Maorilander, Instructor-Lieut. Hogben,
D.S.C., Auckland, on the naval side of
the meteorological conference. Hogben,
a M.L. Rhodes scholar, specialist in
meteorology and mathematics, took part
in the chase and destruction of the Bis-
marck, saw the bombardment of Genoa,
and served on many Arctic Sea convoys,
for his part in which he was awarded a
D.S.C. —the first instructor officer to win
such a decoration.
Adelaide’s newest Professor of Maths.,
Harold William Sanders, has been called
a collector of scholarships on fair
grounds. He started it as a 12-year-old,
bagging one entitling him to three years
at St. Peter’s College, where he subse-
quently was dux. He went through uni-
versity free on scholarships. Teaching
maths, and physics at Perth Tech., for
seven years, he saved enough coin to go
PROF. H. W. SANDERS.
on to Cambridge, but really didn’t need
so much, since he soon bagged another
couple of scholarships. An M.A. of Adel-
aide and Cambridge, now 51, Sanders
went up to the professorship from lec-
turing in maths, at Adelaide Uni. His
father was a teacher of the piano in
Adelaide, a music critic and church
organist, but the professor’s a gramo-
phone enthusiast.
.Back after six years’ winging over most
of the world, Captain Joe Wilson, a
Caboolture (Q.) man, has handed over to
Quantas for its Indian Ocean service a
Liberator which he flew from England.
Wilson was flying in New Guinea in
1933, and a few years later over Eng-
land and Europe. He did the Khartoum-
Lagos run in Africa, then the Cairo-
Karachi route, then to China to fly the
Hong Kong, Bangkok, Singapore, Cal-
cutta lines. The Japs shot down his ’plane
off the China coast, and he landed on
Weichow Island. After that he ferried
bombers from U.S.A. to England, Eng-
land to Malta and later winged his way
about the Middle East.
“What,” flippantly asked Frith, sketch-
ing the “West Australian’s” business man-
ager, Henry Greig, and eliciting that he
was born in Glasgow, “did you come out
as a remittance man?” “Now,” said
Greig, “did ye ever hear of a remittance
mon frae Glasgie?” It’s 33 years since
he came out, snd for 25 years he’s
held his present job, with occasional wan-
HENRY GREIG.
derings to the eastern States on biz. A
previous time he was over the West was
all secesh, and this time there it was
voting Yes! Among other spare-time
interests, Greig is vice-president of Royal
Perth.
Isaac Siggins, former manager of Port
Lincoln (S.A.) Freezing Works, succeeds
the late W. D. Price as g.m. of the Gov-
eminent Produce Department in S.A.
Siggins joined the service in 1906, and,
like his predecessor, is an Old Digger,
43rd. Batt. He’s 54.
One of eighteen to spend ryne days
adrift in an open 24ft. boat, Flying-
Officer P. B. Parsons, of S.A., while on
his way home after two and a half vears’
service in the Middle East. The ship, a
British merchantman, was torpedoed in
the Indian Ocean, and the survivors were
eventually picked up by a British frigate.
Parsons is a former Adelaide lawyer, and
son of knight Angas Parsons, senior
Judge of the Supreme Court in S.A.
“Rostrum’s” recollections:
Marshall Lyle (B'. 23 /8 / ’44) was one of the
more picturesque figures in Melbourne legal
circles. His garb was more Dickensian than
modern, and his massive frame showed it off
well. Lyle used to say he wished he’d never
seen or heard of Deeming. Whenever reference
to the case cropped up, as soon as a man pre-
sented himself at his office and said he was a
journalist the old lawyer would snap out “I sup-
pose you’ve come about Deeming!”
About a year after Deeming’s execution the
murderer’s effects were sold publicly. The auction
drew a big crowd. Marshall Lyle issued a
special notice on the back of the auctioneer’s
catalogue informing prospective buyers of any
relic to the value of £2 or upwards that he
would give them written guarantees that the
articles belonged to Deeming. As the goods
offered brought low prices he was not kept
working overtime. When the axe used by the
murderer was knocked down the auctioneer said
he hoped the buyer intended to use it for less
nefarious purposes than Deeming had. Tfte
buyer declared he had bought it “for export
to England,” but it was later displayed in a
second-hand shop in Windsor (Vic.), where it
remained for many years. In the same window
was an oil painting reputed to be by Deeming.
J. K. Moir bought it for 155., and it now
“adorns” the walls of the Melbourne Bread
and Cheese Club.
Lyle once got a housemaid out of an accusa-
tion of thieving jewellery from her mistress by
recalling the theft of his false teeth, which was
traced to rats. Rats were found to be the
villains in the housemaid’s case also.
Into the silence: —-
Charles Joseph McDonnell, formerly head of
McDonnell and Moffitt, Solicitors, and one of
The Bulletin's oldest readers. Admitted as
a solicitor on Nov. 17, 1883, there was only
one other man listed in the 1944 N.S.W. Law
Almanac who took precedence in length of
service in court —W. W. Robinson, called two
months before him. Charles McD. was a love-
ablb character, and he literally worked himself
to death.
At 74, in Melbourne, Frank W. Lydiard, one
of Victoria’s best writers on agricultural sub-
jects. Eight years ago he transferred from the
“Australasian” to the “Leader.” Breeders and
producers often sought his advice.
In Melbourne, Mary Caroline Hunter, in
charitable works all her long lifetime, and vice-
president of the District Nursing Society. As
a girl she sang in Scots Church choir with
Melba.
At 87, in Melbourne, Major-General Frederick
Godfrey Hughes. Vigorous son of an old
pioneer family, he began his soldiering as a
driver with the St. Kilda battery of the field
artillery in 1875, and he raised and took to
Gallipoli the 3rd Light Horse. A pastoralist and
director of Dunlops and South Broken Hill, he
was Mayor of St. Kilda in 1901. The late
Canon Hughes was a brother.
In Sydney, at 56, Dr. R. H. Bridge, hon.
urological surgeon at Sydney Hospital since
1930. He was in the R.A.M.C. in the last war.
In Sydney, at 65, Superintendent W. P. Prior,
who succeeded Police Commissioner Mackay
as head of the C. 1.8., retiring five years ago.
In Melbourne, Henry John Coxwell Forster,
founder of the Forster Carpet Co. and for over
50 years in the trade. A great worker in the
Y.M.C.A., which he represented at conferences
in India and elsewhere.
In Melbourne, Dr. James Ferdinand Rudall,
eye-specialist and noted amateur musician. He
played for three months with the Melba-Wil-
liamson Opera Co. as an amateur. Bom in
Melbourne, he practised there for over 50 years.
At 67, while a prisoner of war, Captain John
Bruce Stuart Campbell, whose Scottish baronetcy
has had precedence since 1804, and whose
wife is a South Australian. Before the war he
owned extensive mining interests in Malaya.
He served in the Boer War, and in 1914-18 com-
manded a battalion of the Royal Scots and won
the D.S.O. and bar and the Croix de Guerre.
Two sons-in-law are prisoners in Jap hands, and
the third —with the R.A.N. —is reported missing.
In Melbourne, Mary Devaney, mother of
James Devaney, president of the Queensland
Authors and Artists’ Association, and author of
several books of verse and prose.
In Melbourne, at 78, James Isaac Watson,
whose father was the Bendigo mining magnate
J. B. Watson and whose son, Basil, was a
pioneer Australian aviator —he carried the first
Australian mail. The Watson mine on Hustler’s
line of reef turned out very rich, yielding more
than half a million ounces of gold.
At 61, in Melbourne, Dr. Peter Moliton
Bachelard, psychologist at the psychological
clinic at Travancore. He was born in the Duchy
of Luxembourg and came t’o Australia with
high credentials after the last war. As well as
being a scholar, he had a remarkable natural
talent for dealing with backward children.


Society
"AND IT'S PRINTED
WITH WIMBLE'S INKS"
“X.S.”: An insolvent law student has
given the Bankruptcy Court in Mel-
bourne some trouble. Committed to gaol
for refusing to submit a statement of his
affairs the future Gent One was brought
out for another interrogation eight
months later, but stood in the Court com-
pletely silent, although he was told by
the Official Receiver that a surplus would
remain after his estate was wound up.
Brought out for the third time the other
day he remained as unresponsive as ever.
After searching British and Australian
records vainly for a precedent for dealing
with the situation Justice Clyne said he
had no option but to release the prisoner.
Remarking that the recalcitrant one had
done eight months and appeared to be
willing to do another eight years, ’Sonah
said he could see no sense in punishing
him still further. But he was puzzled as
to why the student did it. He hasn’t got
that on his own.
* * * *
“J.F.H.”: A most cherished memory
of the 1914-18 war is that of a sar’-major
—a fine upstanding figure and a good
man all round —whose booming voice
was apt to roar out terrible malapropisms.
A recruit had been in camp a week when
he went A.W.L. Tattoo rollcall came ;
still no sign of the missing recruit. “Ho! ”
boomed the sar’-major, “A.W.L., is he?
Well, if he hasn’t got a perfect lullaby
when he comes back he’ll get twenty-eight
days’ boob.” But his most effective effort
came to light in the sergeants’ mess. The
meal hadn’t been so good and a couple
of “snakes” were complaining. The s.-m.
stood it for a while before he burst out;
“Complainin’ about the food, are you?
You blokes don’t know when you’re well
off. Why, in South Africa we were in the
front line for three months on end and
lived on nothing but bully beef and bis-
cuits. And what did we look like when
we came out? Emancipated skeletons.”
* * s= *
“Visitor”: Post-war history should find
a niche for the case of an Adelaide cake-
shop man who has been fined £l5 for
using cream as a filling for pastry. The
Court told him that cream is now legally
a munition of war, being required for
export.
* * * *
“S.T.S.”: There is one word that it
seems we will not adopt from our U.S.A.
allies—the really useful word “vomit.”
The Mayflower people took with them
from England the old word “sick,” for
ill, and have stuck to it. This makes for
confusion. Americans say“ vomit” when
they mean that. But England won’t and
we don’t. I remember an otherwise pathetic
Children’s Hospital appeal being spoiled
by a line about the little ones who “are
sick all day.” So when we mean “vomit,”
why not say it? It is absolutely the only
instance one knows where the plain
Saxon term is accepted, the Latin one
not thought Nice.
“F.SThe row over the use the
Western Market site in Melbourne is to
be put has developed into the usual dif-
fused wrangle, with so many alternative
schemes put forward that the original
issue has been forgotten. One suggestion
is that if the City Fathers are fired with
the ambition to build on the site the
largest commercial edifice in Australia,
they should go further and make it the
tallest building, the 132 ft. limit being
abrogated in this case. What good would
that do? It would still be a pigmy com-
pared to the tallest of the New York
monsters. ■ A Melbourne architect re-
marked the other day that New York has
the most beautiful skyline in the world,
rivalling Paris’s or London’s. So it has,
if a wharf shed is beautiful. New York’s
skyline is just as commonplace as that of
any factory district, and it is only its size
which makes it impressive. At that,
there are plenty of mountain ranges that
are bigger.
* * * *
“Menadue”: On the Sunday morning
after the Referendum poll I switched on
the radio just before the morning “session”
began. While waiting, I went out and
got my Sunday paper. Standing at the
foot of the bed I read the main head-
line to my wife: AUSTRALIA VOTES
“NO.” Then, as if in commentary, after
a roll of drums, the radio struck up with
the familiar words:
Australia’s sons, let us rejoice,
For we are young and free.
" Well , Jamieson , anything to report?”
“Tarry Rope”: My experience of
sailormen has been that they were neither
“on” nor “in” a ship. They were “with”
it. The preposition is more natural and
likeable: “I was with the Rotomahana in
1905” gives an impression of cobbership
with the old vessel which really exists in
many seafarers’ hearts in later years.
Either “on” or “in” reduces it to a mere
place of employment or a means of trans-
port.
* * * *
“Emend”; As to Prof. Murdoch’s wail
about the National Anthem, during
World War I we were taught at school
an Australian verse:
Far from the Empire’s heart,
Make us a worthy part,
God save the King.
Keep us for ever Thine,
Our land Thy Southern shrine,
And in Thy Grace Divine,
God save the King.
The Prof, should have heard of it, for
his daughter was at the same school
(Perth College) at that time.
♦ * * *
“Avon” on an unconventional Gover-
nor of M.L.:
The Bohemian streak in Lord Ranfurly noted
by “Hamfat” (B. 23/6/’44) was impressed on
me in the first few months of my experience
as a reporter on a Canterbury country news-
paper. My editor, a Scot who held that re-
porters should not be afraid of anything or
anybody, commanded me to board the train that
was carrying Ranfurly to Dunedin, breeze into
his private carriage and get an interview.
“What about?” I asked. “Anything he’ll talk
about,” said McSporran. I didn’t get far. An
awfully snooty A.D.C. shooed me out, impress-
ing upon me that Governors couldn’t be inter-
viewed. It simply wasn’t done. I was medi-
ating sadly on the rear observation platform
when a little fellow with a neat black mo. and
greying hair slipped out of the prviate parlor.
“I’m Ranfurly,” he said. What paper do
you represent?” I told him where I came from.
“What are the people there interested in.
he said. “Horses and football mainly, i
replied very honestly. Whereupon his Ex. gave
me his views on our Ashburton County horses,
and' from that wandered into reminiscences of
his experiences as a breeder of racing stock in
Tvrone. I got a good column and a halt out
of ft — e ven McSporran admitted it was good.
s|j jJj % %
“Petermac”: “Pawang” (B. 16/8/’44) is
not altogether correct in his diagnosis ot
neurosis. The neurotic’s fear is not
usually fear of a fear but of something
which occasioned him terror at one stage
of his life. A neurotic I knew was afraid
to attend a theatre because when the
lights went out his nerves tingled and
sometimes he broke out into a rash. He
abhorred the dark because as a frightened
child he had been left alone many times
in a house at night. Another neurotic
dreaded fire—as a child he had seen his
mother burnt to death.
* * * *
“Blue P.”: A literary friend of mine,
given to sneering at his fellow-country-
men for their absorption in horse-racing
and such mundane things, has been blow-
ing his bags out about American visi-
tors and their standards of appreciation.
He has been describing the American
fondness for libraries, American educa-
tion and what he terms the “average
American’s interest in good books.” But
he isn’t, so sure of himself since the night
when, strap-hanging on a Sydney tram
with an Allied soldier, he inquired
where the Ally hailed from and was told
“Bawston.” “Ah,” said my friend, “then
you know all about Emerson.” “Emer-
son?” “Yes, Ralph Waldo Emerson.”
The Ally pondered, then slowly shook
his head, “It’s bin quite a while since I
came away,” he said, “and I just ain’t
had no time to keep up with things back
home. This Emerson now, would he be
a ball-player?”
* * * *
“Pitt St.”: The other day the president
of Sydney’s Water Board was heard assur-
ing the citizens that there would be plenty
of water for the summer, a comforting
item at a time when they were being told
that their transport, cooking, power and
lighting were about to suffer through coal
shortage. All the same, the Water Board
shouldn’t be too optimistic. It hasn’t yet
occurred to the Canberra crowd to
appoint a Weather Control Board, but it
will —it will; and when it does it will
follow as night the day that water will
either disappear entirely or go on the
black market.
* * * *
“M. 8”: The medical fraternity had
better select a new name for its associa
tion. A large and prosperous gentleman
with no apparent means of support hav-
ing appeared out our way, we asked who
he was. His name was forthcoming, with
the information that he belonged to the
B.M.A. “But he hasn’t a doctor’s plate
on his gate.” “Who said he was a doctor?
He belongs to the Black Marketing Asso-
ciation.”
* * * *
“Zake”: I am surprised that so many
fellows swing a bookie’s bag when there
is so much easier money to be picked up.
All one has to do is select a work by
some long-dead composer, tinker around
with a note or two and perhaps alter
the time —anyone who had read a Vamp
Tutor could do it in half an hour —fit the
mushiest possible words to the tune and
make a fortune out of it. Russian com-
posers are in great favor at the moment
as what one may call pinchees. The nub
he s reaction? Listen. Had a look at the
film Up m Mabel’s Room.” In one
sequence the suspicious wife, in petulant
mood, is sitting at the baby grand punch-
mg out some chords from the Tschaikow-
sky Concerto in B Flat Minor. To the
other woman’s” query about her playing
her husband says “Oh, Geraldine always
plays Tschaikowsky when she gets like
that.” At which a woman at the back
stage whispered to her companion “You
wouldn’t think these fillum people would
make bloomers like that, Alice. Whv.
that’s that ‘Concherto for two,’ a well-
known song hit. I heard Vera Lynn sing
it on the wireless this morning!”
“A Major”: Most noted practitioner
of a prank of the “Ern Malley” kidne\
in recent years is violinist Fritz Kreisler,
who not so very long ago confessed that
many of those beautiful “arrangements”
that on his earlier programmes were attri-
buted to “Vilvaldi-Kreisler,” “Porpora-
Kreisler,” “Couperin-Kreisler,” etc.,
owed nothing to the old masters whose
names had been borrowed. Kreisler, like
many other geniuses of the violin—Paga-
nini, De Beriot, Vieuxtemps and
Wieniawski come easily to mind—found
himself up against a scarcity of composi-
tions suited to his particular style of play-
ing and was impelled to remedy the de-
ficiency by resource to his own gifts as a
composer—very considerable gifts, as
every musician will now acknowledge. As
it would look egotistical to have his own
name peppered all over his programmes
he fathered off most of his early pieces
on highly-respectable composers, long
dead, and, for the most part, long-
forgotten. And not a single critic dis-
covered the innocent deception.
* * * *
“Caballer”: The expert who is able to
divine the exact day the Nazis will toss
the towel in is still flourishing. Many
of him relies on the formula that 666 is
the number of the Beast and that if the
square of the base of the Pyramids is mul-
tiplied by its height it will give numerals
corresponding to the Sanscrit phrase “Nuts
to Hitler.” Macaulay came up against
that sort of pest, an individual who, with-
out preface, suddenly asked him “Is Bona-
parte the Beast?” “No sir, he is not”
replied the historian. “The House of
Commons is the Beast. I can prove it.
There are 658 members and these with
their three clerks, Sergeant-at -arms and
his deputy, the chaplain, doorkeeper and
librarian make 666.”
* * *
“Arter”: “Bernard Hackshaw’s” obser-
vation (B. 23/8/’44) that artists have
proved no more prescient than laymen
have in their assessment of what is
ephemeral and what is permanent in art
is not, I would submit, a very safe ground
on which to base a general policy of gal-
lery management; nor does it weaken the
value of my point that the most vigorous
opposition to the current cult of uglyism
and distortion in art comes from painters
who have devoted many years of thought
and study to problems of technique and
expression. The judgments of these prac-
titioners, however fallible, are at least
instructed, and the only alternative to
accepting them is to place arbitrament
in the hands of the literati —people who
can only discuss painting in a jargon com-
pounded of the terms of music, drama
and literature —or entrust it to the good
souls whose open minds are a reflection
of comnlete ienorance.
AT LAST.
“Action against coalminers, unless strikes stopped,
was decided on at the first meeting of the Federal
Cabinet after the Referendum.”
Cause and effect? Well, better late than never,
More welcome tardily than not at all.
They needn’t be exceptionally clever
To recognise the writing on the wall,
The warning shown so starkly on the screens,
And get a clear perception what if means.
How oft one’s heard the merit stressed with
unction
As best of gifts, for him who’s set above
His fellows, of that laudable conjunction
The iron hand within the velvet glove.
Curtin, the velvet’s yours, it’s not denied,
But where’s the iron that ought to be inside?
When Suaviter in modo goes unheeded,
However excellent a trait if be.
Experience should have taught you that there’s
needed
A touch of good old fortiter in re.
When words are vain, necessity enacts,
To prove that they were meant, recourse to
acts.
Soft sawder, coaxing, honey-dripping diction,
Anguished appeals to patriotic sense,
Should long ago have deepened the conviction
Of all such methods’ utter impotence,
And threats are hardly like results to yield
When once their hollowness has been revealed.
When kindness fails, endeavoring to be kinder
Becomes a sign of halting timorousness.
You’ve had your lesson in a sharp reminder
To exercise the powers that you possess
And bring to heel those who such powers ignore
Ere you can logically ask for more.
When verbal argument has run its course
For naught, it’s obvious the will to win
Depends upon the argument of force,
Whether you call it ordered discipline
Or the Big Stick or any other name
That suits your preference. They’re all the
same.
N.s.w.
T. THE R.
COLD TIMES FOR MONARCHS.
“Before the last war there were only three re-
publics in Europe; after this one there may only be
five monarchs.”
These be cold times for kings and queens. The
glowing
Light that for centuries about them shone
Finds year by year, the way that things are
going,
Fewer and fewer thrones to beat upon.
Sceptres and orbs, unless the process ceases,
Crowns that long lines of predecessors wore,
May presently become museum pieces,
Just that and nothing more.
Who knows? No use to waste my precious
stanzas
In guessing how they fare, the dispossessed
Scions of Hohenzollems and Braganzas,
Bourbons and Romanoffs and all the rest.
Some doubtless live in hopes of yet obtaining
The crowns that once seemed destined for
their nobs;
Others, less sanguine, are experience gaining
In less exalted jobs.
The wheel may turn. It’s not to be asserted
It never will, when history shows no lack
Of instances of lands which have reverted
To kingship—after giving kings the sack.
The very fickleness of mobs engenders
For wildest dreams and fantasies a scope;
Hence for ex-kings, and even for pretenders,
’Long as there’s life there’s hope.
Well, one may sympathise with their distresses
While musing what a lengthy list they d nil-
Monarchs who’ve lost the numbers of tnei
messes
And those who might have reigned but nevei
Strung out in single file, were they collected.
Has-been and can’t-be, veteran and cud,
I wonder in what time they’d be expected
To pass a given pub.
N.S.W.
PIPARDS.


“Clooter”: When an American negro
in a New York cabaret sang “Waltzing
Matilda” and announced “this song came
originally from Australia, but we claim it
as ours,” his claim was challenged by the
representative of Sydney “D.T.,” where-
upon he said “I understood it was the
theme song of the Australian Govern-
ment.” An irrelevant and ignorant reply
it seemed at first, but since August 19 I’ve
been wondering whether Dr. Evatt
mightn’t find some sort of consoling re-
flection in the spectacle of himself camped
“Cut it out—here comes a patient."
by a billabong, trying to get some satis-
faction from his rejected 14 points while
enduring the black and suspicious looks
of his colleagues as he warbled the
familiar refrain. If stuck for someone to
play the ghost of Paterson’s swagman he
could always fall back on the figure of
Dr. Evatt the jurist pointing an accusing
finger at Dr. Evatt the party politician,
* * * * .
“Bumpk”: Morwell Bridge (Vic.)
school, destroyed in the February bush-
fires, hasn’t been rebuilt, and accord-
ing to a press report its 60 children, in
six different grades under two teachers,
are housed in a dingy, unlined, poorly-
lighted hall, with no heating appliances,
though each day starts with the tempera-
ture below 40deg. F. When the frost
begins to thaw from the roofing iron icy
drops shower on the children. They play
during recess hours in a morass. Physical-
training classes held on the road are sub-
ject to interruption by every passing
vehicle. In the meantime, the Caulfield
racecourse, Melbourne, has been re-
opened, its buildings having been recon-
ditioned by an army of workmen.
* * * *
“Philatelist” >Maoriland has once more
put it over Australia with the stamps for
its 1944 “Health” issue. As was the case
last year, the issue will feature the
Princesses Elizabeth and Margaret Rose,
in uniforms of Sea Ranger and Girl Guide
respectively. This will be the younger
princess’s third appearance on a stamp
—the first was in Canada in 1939, and the
second Maoriland’s effort of last year. It
will be the fifth portrayal of Princess
Elizabeth, who was thus honored by
Newfoundland (1932 and 1938), Canada
(1935) and Maoriland (1943). Both
girls are stamp collectors, specialising
in Empire issues, having been initiated
by their grandfather, George V., who had
one of the finest stamp collections in
the world.
* * * *
“C. Ma”: A notion sponsored by
A.B.C. in Melbourne may change the
complexion of future election meetings.
. D P- , „ . „ , . .
A.B.C. staged a debate on freedom o
Control in Post-war Industry With a
Judge in the chair and sundry notables
of opposing views taking their turns upon
the rostrum. The speakers included Prof,
Copland, Dr. Lloyd Ross, Herbert Gepp
and Vernon Smith. The audience could
i ~
ask questions, and did so, to the general
entertainment and the embarrassment ot
some of the speakers. The debate system
was subsequently adopted at Shepparton,
the tomato-canning district, when State
Minister for Water Supply McDonald
and State Labor leader Cain took sides
on the referendum Ordinarily neither of
these gentry would have drawn an audi-
ence of 100 on his own hook, but the
prospect of hearing both sides instead of
being lectured by one politician so
charmed the townsfolk that they turned
up to the tune of over 1000 and had a
great night. As one remarked after-
wards: “If election meetings were always
like this I might even be able to take an
interest in State politics.”
* * * «
“Lao-dah”: Armies in this war have
teams of archaeological and other experts
who follow on their heels and have the
task of salvaging the artistic treasures that
Mars has been trampling underfoot. They
jyill have one of their biggest jobs in
Florence. Only a tithe of that city’s glories
could be removed for safe keeping. There
is hardly a building of any importance
in Florence which hasn’t been embel-
lished by some renowned artist. The eight-
sided Baptistry, built in 1100, is famous
for its bronze doors ; the church of Sante
Croce (1294) has splendid monuments to
Galileo, Dante and Michelangelo ; that
of San Lorenzo has the übiquitous Buona-
rroti’s statues of Day, Night, Evening
and Dawn, guarding the monuments of
Lorenzo the Magnificent and Guiliano
d’Medici. San Marco has the frescoes
of that artistic monk who was called Fra
Angelico because his work was so angelic,
Giotto’s altar pieces are scattered all over
the city and environs,
**. * *
“Pawang”: Marjorie Lawrence ex-
pressed her creed very finely in an
interview she had with a young girl,
a fellow-sufferer from infantile paralysis,
wbo was wheeled into her dressing-
rGom after a Town Hall concert,
The singer asked her visitor if she
bad tried to walk. Three steps, the girl
sa jd 5 but the task was too great. “Yes,
j know,” said Miss Lawrence. “It is
b ard, terribly hard. But you must. If
you don’t wa jk you are not helping your-
sejf j had it from the shoulders down,
and tbey thought I might never walk
aga j n 5 but j wa jk each day now with my
crutc hes, and soon I will walk without
them.” The girl went home heartened,
The singer might ba ve added that the
chief j ngrec }ient of her recovery was her
f ocus on music,
* * * *
“Wharfrat”-; The arrival in Australia
of a windjammer, a four-masted barque,
has been the signal for the usual crop
c f newspaper cliches, including frequent
re f erence s to the visitant as “a tall ship.”
The phrases G f COU rse, has the cachet of
the Poet Laureate, not qnversed in sea-
lorej who in « Sea p ever ” declares “All I
want is a tall ship and a star to steer her
by » shellbacks of the old school, how-
evei% didn’t like tall ships, for these had
stingy or blue-ribbon masters. The first
sn ifter of the day at sea should not be
i owere d “till the sun is over .the yard-
arm » xhe ta n er tbe s hip the higher the
yardarm and the longer to wait for a
drink.
* * * *
“Magister” replies on a matter of dic-
tion:
“Alumnus’s” comment (B. 16/8/’44) on my
par. about Churchill’s speech is a nice piece of
special pleading. What he overlooked was this:
“As” can express just the shade of meaning
| liat he sa y s Churchill wished to convey, and
has been the almost unanimous choice of writers
and f or the past two or three centuries
w f ien they wished to complete the comparison
tvith a clause. Churchill could have used the
accepted form without any danger of ambiguity
or loss of emphasis. But, since even provincials
know that language is a living and growing
thin s> 1 recognise his right to ex P rc - ss h ™ se t m
his own way—provided always that I retain my
r j ht tQ criticise his way if I don’t like it.
If> with his b i ess ing and American support, such
expressions as “We’ll beat the flying-bomb
menace like we beat the magnetic mine” win
general acceptance, no doubt my sensitive ear
will gradually become attuned to them. Mean-
while ’ Im a mem ber of the^opposmon.
I h landlord-tenant problem
. , A X/r ~
is sometimes a tough one. A Melbourne
P-M. had before him a Fitzroy woman
seeking a warrant of eviction against a
man living in a house she owned in Rich-
mond. Her only son is in the R.A.A.F.,
but, because she has an income of 275. 6d.
rent from her house, she receives no
special allowance, though she pays a
guinea for living in a house she doesn’t
own. The sympathy of the Bench was
going to the landlady when it learned
that her tenant had nine people living in
the house, two of whom were daughters-
in-law whose hubbies were on active ser-
vice. Remarking that the man who could
have decided this impromptu died thou-
sands of years ago, the P.M. took time to
think it over.
* * * *
“M’fundishi” discusses accents: —
As a bi-lingual S’African and a one-time ex-
aminer in certain Bantu dialects for an East
African Government, implying an ear for accents,
I have found the S’African accent no easier to
recognise than the Australian (B. 6/8/’44). The
speech of the S’African of British parentage
and English-speaking home, educated in
schools such as “Bishop’s” (the Diocesan Col-
lege, Capetown), differs little if at all from
that of the Englishman of the middle classes
not addicted to the Oxford bleat, whether he
hails from Natal or the Cape Provinces. This
applies to the speech of the Afrikander ot Boer
parentage, home and schooling. ihe accent
here is colored by inflections absorbed by early
Dutch and Huguenot settlers and then by Voor-
trekkers in their contacts with Bantu natives,
The inflections so acquired have crept into
Afrikaans, in which I have never been able to
trace much provincial variation. I have met
many Aussies serving in the military, police
and civil services in South and East Africa,
also in the Rhodesias, whose speech was as
free from accent as that of their English or
“Vaalpens” (British S’African) confreres. It
was only on coming to Australia, 22 years ago,
that I recognised there was a definite Australian
accent, and that this had become standardised
and definitely more marked than I remembered
the 0 speech° e of
and seventies whose English remained,
to my ear, remarkably pure and accentless.
The same applies to m Anstjalian women
gdMnoref benefiffrom
men do.
jjc , * *
“Grampah”: What movies are suitable
for children? When I took a small
grandson to see “Lassie, Come Home,”
the child wept almost continuously,
affected bv the sufferings of Lassie and
ti r> ihot die would not make the
the fear that she ™«ld no i,.“®
UfJ" P,r as h n ‘fd on and t fher
b f!?* nd ffl tua fhr bnni Yet news-
child sniffles all oVei the home. Yet news
reels full of guns, bombs and deaths
elicited no more than mild interest until
a glimpse ot robot-bomfeed London
fewe? a
Theyve killed that poor
sobbed my grandson and took but little
stock in the rest of the gazette. s
* * * *
“Colonial Cove”: H. W. Reveley, men-
tioned (B. 19/7/’44) as a friend of
Shelley and an early Swan River settler,
was Groperland’s first civil engineer (at
£2OO a year). * He designed and super-
intended the construction of all that
infant colony’s Government buildings,
two of which survive today: the Round-
house on Arthur’s Head, at the western
end of High-street, Fremantle, and the
old Courthouse, which stands alongside
Perth’s more modern Supreme Court, and
is still used to house the Arbitration
Court The Roundhouse, W.A.’s first
prison, dates from 1830, the Courthouse
from 1837. Another Reveley memorial
is the tunnel that runs under Arthur’s
“Henry, you've been smoking again!'
Head, cut in 1838 to afford easy access
from’High-street to the whaling station,
which then nestled under the seaward side
of the big rock. Reveley also designed
the first causeway across the Swan, the
mile-long bridge which for half a century
was Perth’s only road connection with
the’outer country ; and he also built and
operated the Swan River’s first water-
driven flour mill, the site of which is now
occupied by Perth Technical School in
St. George’s Terrace. An engineer with
qualifications far beyond Westralia’s then
needs, he stood by the growing colony
for the first 10 years, then age ot
53 returned to his native England.
*** ' *
“Hamfat” on an old stand-by:
“East Lynne” (B. 9/ 8 / ’44), whatever fun the
highbrows poked at it in the days when there
was a s t a ge, stood up to this test of a classic:
t cns Q f thousands of people were prepared to
g 0 see what each new leading lady made of
Lady Isabel, just as they went to see what a new
Lady Macbeth, a new Hamlet or a new Shy-
lock could put into the parts, and as people
go to the opera, knowing the music and the ploj,
to compare new singers with o d This is a
Jet. are of the«reg,.ng forgotten m
*°^ sh co “ that to flourish in English
provindal towns m i g ht put on “Hamlet,” or even
some thing comparatively modern like “The School
f or Scandal,” seven or eight times a year, and
crowds would come to see how the new people
in the star roles would shape. Two old chaps
of my acquaintance used to argue right up to
the time when death parted them as to whethei
Wilson Barrett or Julius Knight made the better
Marcus Superbus (‘Sign of the Cross ). lo
ge t back to “East Lynne,” an old lady tells me
that she has seen it played 53 times, and de-
dares that an actress who is unknown to fame
(having never risen beyond touring-show rank)
was “the best Lady Isabel I’ve ever seen,
* * * *
“CO”* Synchronising with the news
or the new land,ng in France the bens
of St. Paul s started ringing the othei
n j gb t in Melbourne. People rushed into
he streets thinking that an armistice or
S something had been reported, but it was
only the bellringers’ practice night.
% % ♦
“Jog”: “Hafap,” in calling the
microfilm process a war-time innovation
(B. 16/8/’44), neglected to specify which
war. Actually it was in the Franco-Pi us-
sian war during the siege ot I axis m 18
that the forerunner of our present-day
airgraph system was introduced by a
Frenchman, M. Dag,on. As in the air-
graph process, the messages were photo-
reduced and dispatched by
» P p j4ons Each pigeon was capable
can P yin g several thousand messages,
T a * mall percentage ever reached
their destination, unfavorable weather
d bombar d men t casualties accounting
the regt But even at that? about
50 000 dispatches were safely received in
T) ‘
1 ariS - * * .* *
“ R y o it” ; A variety of pilfering that
has a i ways puzzled Victorian Railway
officials is the theft of electric-light globes.
These have screw sockets and are useless
for domestic lighting unless the appi o-
priator can und,ertake r an engineering joo.
Yet they vanish from trams at the avei-
age rate of 1300 monthly highest
figure being 2347 in August, 1942, after
the black-out restrictions were lilted. Ihc
thieves were apparently making up tor
the frustration suffered when cans
screwed over the lights made th|m dim-
cult to get at. There is a theory not very
feasible, that small boys use the bulbs
to practise bomb-throwing.
“El Madjal”: The retreating Hun is
a past master at setting booby traps. In
the 1914-1918 scrap one that was very
hard to resist was the casual-looking
pickelhaube helmet, which when touched
blew the souvenir collector to smithereens,
Time and trouble were no object if there
was the remotest chance of inflicting in-
jury. Fritz left a springboard on the
Somms canal near Corbie, and the first
and only Digger who took a header off
it never surfaced. He was impaled upon
a spike placed under the water.


ABORIGINALITIES
THE STORY-TELLER.
“Did I tell you this yarn?” he said.
The jungle crept closer to listen
And we to listen and laugh
—For he could tell such stories.
We watched his face in silence;
Poised on the brink of laughter,
Watching the twist of his lips
(O Christ, we were starved for laughter).
We heard the drone of the ’plane
And buried the thought in the mind,
Not wanting to bring it to being
—For our hearts were withered for laughter.
We heard the bomb and the sighing
Of giant wings in the moonlight,
And the scattering crash of the bomb
As it broke in the midst of the yarn.
And that was the end of his story—
His blood on the earth . . . And after,
The monstrous night and the moonlight
Were shaken with tears and laughter,
a.i.f. Phillip M. Jones.
* * * *
“Old-timer”: Saturday night in Croag-
wangalup. In the one street paraded the
townspeople and many from the sur-
rounding district, for there had been a
great football match that day, and Croag-
wangalup had won by two points, thus
destroying the myth of the invincibility
of Deddarangatang. Now Croas and
Deddas, all bets paid and the game a
thing for post-mortems, mingled happily,
awaiting the special train due at 11 p.m.
to take the Deddas home. On the corner
by the pub “Curyo” Charlie, with two
carbide lamps for light, spun his sweat-
wheel and invited all and sundry to
“speculate and accumulate.” Presently
the Law pushed through the crowd and
remarked sourly to “Curyo” “Fold it up
now, fold it up!” “Curyo” began slowly
to obey and the Law departed. Soon
“Curyo” was in full swing again. Back
came the Law and issued another warn-
ing. Followed the same performance.
Three times this happened. On the fourth
time the Law grabbed “Curyo” with one
hand, his “joint” with the other, and
lugged both to the rear of the little police
station. The crowd followed, murmur-
ing. The Law set up the “joint,” lit the
carbide lamps, nodded briefly and, about
to enter the station, said “Now p’raps
thim narks won’t be runnin’ t’ me with
complaints an’ me an’ the bhoys can get
on with our poker game.” “Gripes, ’
gasped “Curyo,” “1 thought I was
pinched.” “Yez are pinched,” retorted
the Law; “an’ yez’ll probably be fined a
fiver. See that yez get it from the mob
now or it’s a fortnight in the cooler yez’ll
be doin’, me foine manny.” And he went
to rejoin his game,
* * * *
“S.G.”: Any of you Abofishliars ever
run across the big mullet in the dam at
the Isis Central Mill (Q.)? Back in 1918
a mob of us were toiling at the mill and
eating in a mess run by ourselves. One
week-end the cook, through some over-
sight, ran out of meat. A couple of
blokes decided to net the dam for fish.
The fresh-water mullet they dragged out
ranged from 41b, to 22flb.; the latter
must be close to a mullet record. I don’t
know whether it was the kind of tucker
the fish got that made ’em grow like
that, but I do know they were a wel-
come break on the menu, and our regular
fish meals after that knocked quite a few
bob off our mess accounts.
* * * *
“Pinion”: How about the water hen
as Australia’s happiest bird? It never
visits any area till after the rains, when
all things are green and pleasant. As it’s
fond of company, it goes about in flocks
of thousands. It has whips to eat, plenty
of time to get it, indulges in hours of
play, and, generally, seems to have a tip-
top time. It is also one of the most
gifted. It can run like the proverbial red-
shank, dive like a grebe, swim like a duck,
and, at covering long distances on the
wing, I think it could put the falcon in
the bag. It has to take mighty flights to
migrate as it does. But will someone tell
me where and when it breeds, and how?
“D.R.H.”; Are the magpies evolving
into a race of superbirds, with parental
care and training extended for years, or
are they just plain sissies? The pair who
are building in the pepper-tree here have
been assisted from the laying of the foun-
dation twig to the interior decoration in
wool and rabbits’ fur by their last year’s
baby. This absurd youngster divides his
time between the nest, where he sits on
the edge crooning to momma in sacchar-
hine tones or taking a turn on the eggs,
and the sheds, where he still forages for
extra upholstery. Poppa treats him with
paternal pride and condescension and to
the old girl he’s obviously the bitsy-witsy
Momma’s boy. Whether they’ll kick him
out when the new family arrives or retain
him in the commissariat department re-
mains to be seen.
* * * #
“Propalong”: It’s marvellous what a
nark a knowall can be. For years Baldy
Jack and Christian Paddy have camped
together at the Twelve-mile and almost
every night they’ve played what Paddy
calls “Christian Cribbage.” Paddy got
the idea one time that cards make a man
selfish —crib being the game in question.
Jack, the practical member of the pair,
suggested that instead of throwing out
with intent to cripple your opponent’s
crib you should discard the best possible
pair of cards without actually ruining
your own hand. They tried it, and stuck
to it. Paddy reckons: “Y’ get jus’ double
the fun. If Jack’s the dealer an’ ’e gets
a whoppin’ big crib, well, ’e likes t’ peg
ahead. An’ I get a kick outa seein’ ’im
go ahead on what I gave ’im. It’s more
excitin’, too: y’ get a lot o’ fourteens an’
sixteens. An’ it makes the game more
equal. Supposin’ I’m havin’ a run o’ bad
luck an’ Jack’s goin’ good. The poor
cards I have t’ chuck out don’t do ’im
much good while the good cards ’e gives
me keep me from gettin’ way behind.”
And now our latest Jacky, a flamin’ bush
lawyer, has told the old chaps that, to be
“If you come down , Jessie , I'll give you a piece of linseed cake.”
really fair, the one who wins should give
the game to the other. Paddy’s still argu-
ing about it, and Jack’s taken to reading.
* * * *
“Bughouse”: When an Aboliar some
weeks -ago averred that even after death
strychnine continued to spread through
the carcass, even saturating the bones so
that they were a lethal menace six months
later, I let it pass, although doubting.
For strychnine is an active poison of
comparatively short toxic duration, get-
ting its lethal results from an over-
acceleration of the heart —actually in
carefully-measured quantities it is a valu-
able cardiac stimulant in pneumonia and
angina pectoris. But when “G.N.K.8.”
(B. 19/7/’44) tells us that this poison
preserves its deadliness even after the
bones have been incinerated I rise in
revolt. Strychnine is a vegetable alka-
loid, derived from the seeds of the plant
Nux vomica. It is in the same class as
nicotine, itself a milder poison. Thus
strychnine passed through a fire would
be entirely destroyed—which actually is
one of the legal arguments against crema-
tion. This being so lam also able to
discount the alleged death of those rabbit-
fence inspectors ; though the alleged in-
cident would make a fine theme for a
radio play.
* * * *
“Moyhu”: I assure “The 0.D.” (B.
16/8/’44) that the Mallee man did leave
his chicks, ducklings and goslings to
battle their own way out of the lowan’s
mound, a feasible enough reason for the
prolonged incubation period in the case
of the duck, goose and hen eggs. The
turkey chicks, by taking their usual 28
days to appear, lend support to a belief
prevalent among turkey fanciers that the
domestic turkey is a descendant, down
through endless lines of brush- and
jungle-turkey, from a common mound-
building ancestor.
* * * *
“Gumsucker”; Speaking of old-time
villainies, I well remember my first day
in a foundry. Old Dick, who did the
brass moulding, was in a stew over hay-
ing lost what he called “one of his
pennies.” Seemed a small sum for a
grown man to be troubled over. When
it was finally discovered in the riddle of
sand I noticed that it was a new penny.
Old Dick had a set of six. So clever a
moulder was he that with very fine facing
sand he could make a cast of these six.
Then when the brass crucible'was drawn
this box of pennies was poured. Very
seldom did any fail to come out perfect.
With the “runner gates” carefully sawn
off and the scars trimmed with a smooth
file they were as true pennies as though
they had come from the mint —except
that they were shiny; too shiny for Ryan
the publican to take them without sus-
picion. But this was corrected by an
immersion in a mixture of vinegar and
stale beer. When drought time arrived
towards the eqd of each week I would be
sent with six .of these pennies and the
biggest billy to the pub—penalty for non-
compliance being flagellation with a brass
rule. Ryan always took the bogus coin
without comment. So satisfied did Old
Dick become with his joke that he got
the idea of four half-crowns and a small
crucible of silver. But they were hard
in those days ; the Judge gave him seven
years.
* * * «
“Edjudina”: In tjkat controversy re
the edibility of the emu (B. 26/7/’44)
both sides were right. Between emus
there is just the same difference as be-
tween a tough old ram and a baby lamb.
The thigh of a young emu will cut into
nice round steaks which, deep fried in
plenty of fat, make very choice eating.
The thigh of an old cock bird, like the
haunches of an old buck kangaroo, may
taste as dry and insipid as sawdust. I’ve
tried both.
* * * *
“Mat’s Mate”: It was, as our little
fellow-traveller remarked, “an ’ot day,”
and when we sighted the river Mat and
I began to peel off. The little bloke
fished a pea-rifle out of his swag and an-
nounced that he would “knock a bunny
or a pigeon” while we swam. Mat was
first in, diving well out from the bank, me
a yard or two behind. When I came up
there was Mat, ten feet ahead of me,
staring blankly at a big black snake a
foot ahead of him, which stared back
belligerently. Came a crack from the
bank, I heard a buzz by my left ear and
saw that snake’s head fly apart. Turning,
Mat and I swam ashore, got out and
rushed up to the marksman with con-
gratulations. He didn’t hear us, only
stared with wide-eyed wonder at the drift-
ing reptile’s corpse. “B-b-bloomey,” he
stammered, “I b-bought that gun orf a
kid this mornin’. First time 1 ever fired
a shot in me life.” Then he sank slowly
to the ground. Mat looked at me, then
at the river then at the bloke on the
ground. “Kur-ripes!” he got out slowly,
“I don’t feel too good meself.” It took
me ten minutes to get both back to
normal.
* * * *
“M. 8”; Sausage was a three-quarter-
grown pup of large size and rather trust-
ing disposition. Some indiscretion of his
mother had resulted in Sausage being
equipped with the body and legs of a
staghound, the face of an Airedale and
the whiskers of a Scotty; so that, when
Sausage went sniffing among the heap of
old bags, the mouse he unearthed took a
firm grip of Sausage’s bottom lip and
hung on, lost in the pup’s whiskers.
Sausage raced madly round in circles,
stopping every now and then to scrape
vainly at his mouth with a front paw,
ki-yiking at full yelp and performing
evolutions that beggar description. Then
he sighted the dam, plunged in, submerged
and then squatted happily in the shallows
watching that mouse striking across the
ddm. Yet some people say dogs can’t
think.
# * * ♦
I’ll name two other indigenous
trees which for shade will make either
the bauhinia or the wilga imagine they’d
struck a black-out: the leopard-tree from
C.Q. and the Burdekin plum from farther
north.* As for the gidya I would as lief
sit in the shade of a wire fence. Anyway,
that robust acacia is more renowned for
its hard, heavy wood than its umbrageous
foliage. No one in the Gulf Country
would sit in the shade of a bauhinia
unless his south pole was as well armored
as a hermit crab’s. Knock some dirt
down one of the numerous holes bur-
rowed around the trunk, and up comes a
fighting 4in. scorpion mad as a hornet
with a headache. It’s actually dangerous
to take refuge from the heat under either
tree I cited, as the extreme coolness of
the climate is liable to give one a chill.
* * * *
“Sur Cingle”: Although the horse-feed
argument has received the supreme dis-
tinction of notice from “Old-timer” (B.
12/7/’44), the evidence of the duff-eating
prad proves nothing. A cow-cuddling
friend of mine down south has a bitch
that eats cigarette butts—yes, I know
“The 0.D.” has a feline that spits brown
—and is so fond of them that she’ll wait
to snap ’em up as soon as they are
dropped, while they’re still alight. She
taught herself the trick as, apparently, did
“Old-timer’s” horse. But she’s the only
dog, amongst the hundreds I’ve seen sniff
at fallen bumpers, with this trick. If,
then, “Old-timer” is willing to knock up
200 plum-duffs and ship ’em up here I’ll
try them on the horses, beginning with
the workers in the horse-paddock and
going out through the spellers at Stony
Creek to the buck’s mob at Bright’s Well.
If 60 p.c. of the duffs are eaten when first
found I’ll believe that horses don’t have
to be trained to eat white-pfella tucker.
% % * ♦
“W.P.T.”; “I’ve carried the swag with
some queer blokes in me time,” remarked
Monaro Mick, “but one I struck at
Michelago (N.S.W.) was the queerest.
Durin’ the day he always kept a lead on
his blue cattle-dog, though he seemed
quiet enough, but before he bunked at
night he useter let the dog loose, fasten
one end of the lead round his own leg
and the other end to a tree. Reckoned
he could never walk over a cliff or any-
thing in his sleep when he did that,
* * * *
“Betcha”: One of the most awkward
nags I’ve had was a racer I tried to use
for stock work. Excitable, she was easy
enough to sit, but the trouble was to
get on. Rearing, side-swinging, jumping
or running back, that moke certainly
knew all the tricks, and if a man landed
anywhere but square in the saddle a quick
buck promptly put him back where he
started. One day while eight miles trom
home on the valley road I dismounted,
and after a few vain attempts was lead-
ing the moke to quieten her when I met
the district’s champion horseman. “On,
just got a bit stiff in the legs, Jim,’ i
answered him hurriedly, “so decided to
walk it off.” At that moment he spotted
a bunch of jumbucks about a mile oft to
the right. “By cripes, I’ll have to dead
’em before they reach the gap,” he g^P e ~j
“an’ me hack’s gone lame.” I offered
mine. Jim took a run and jump, landed
straight, and at breakneck speed turned
the woollies, then dismounted to emse
the gap. I went on slowly. Twenty
minutes passed, and still Jim didn t show
up, so I sat down to wait. After abu
over the ridge he came, very red m the
face and leading the nag. He tossed over
the reins. “No doubt about y’ bein stm,
he remarked cryptically; “I was, too.


“Esk D.”; “Dingbat” Sam was a
moody sort of cove, and he got fits of
depression that wound up in efforts to do
away with himself. The first time he
climbed the windmill and tried hanging.
With neck in noose he jumped—and
broke his leg; he’d forgotten to fasten
the other end of the rope. A year or
so later Sam tried the pea-rifle, and suc-
ceeded only in ploughing a permanent
part in his hair. That unnerved him with
firearms so he tried to cut his throat. The
knife was too blunt at first attempt, and
he was sharpening it for another go when
caught in the act and compelled to desist.
Next day, driving to the horse sales,
the car skidded at a sharp turn in the
road and went over the embankment,
rolling over twice before it got hung up
in a tree. Sam scrambled out dazed but
unhurt and gazed awe-stricken at the
almost sheer drop of 60 feet to the river.
“Gripes,” he said, mopping his brow, “a
man’s lucky he wasn’t killed!”
* * * *
“Bo”: “I’m workin’ for a cocky at
Blackboard Bend,” said “Duckmaloi”
Dick, “an’ ain’t the cockatoos givin’ his
corn patch curry! No sooner does him
or me git outa sight but what they swoop
in hundreds. Trouble is they’ve got a
sentinel, leader of the gang an’ a real out-
law. He useter belong to old Mitchell
from across the river, but a few years
back he busted his chain an’ went bush.
That bird was so cunnin’ he knew the
scrapin’ sound as we pushed the chairs
back after dinner, for before we could
reach the kitchen door he’d be screechin’
his warnin’ to the mob. I borrow the
boss’s gun one day an’ reckon I’ll get
him. After about an hour of careful,
silent stalkin’ I get within range and let
fly at him as he sits on a low limb of a
dead ironbark. I blew a few feathers off,
but he still sits there, not even botherin’
to raise his comb, the cheeky swine! I
lets him have another, gets a couple more
feathers, but he takes no notice. I git
mad then and give him the whole belt,
an’ by the time I finish the blankard’s sit-
tin’ there in the nude, screwin’ me orf with
his melon on one side. Then damme if
he doesn’t raise his comb, say ‘Y’ don’t
ground me that easy, mate,’ gives me a
raspberry an’ flies off to join the mob! ”
* * * *
“Kilderken”; “Moyhu” (B. 26/7/’44)
has been misinformed. Long-horned,
bally-faced Herefords don’t pome down
“ Don't get orf ’ im —Ma wants y ’ to go another message
in the spring. That’s the time they make
up to the tops. They will cer-
tainly not hesitate to come to a man if
he is carrying a bag or rucksack, and they
will come quicker if he calls to them,
Reason is that they must have salt, and
they associate every human with it. There
is no natural salt in the Victorian alps,
where no Hereford outlaws now exist.
.* * * *
“Solitude”; Seventyfiver took his pup
out on to the tops with him last summer,
The first day out it captured a sleepy
lizard, and for hours it carried the blue
tongue around, putting it down to admire
or to kill afresh at frequent intervals. At
lunch-time when Seventyfiver had grown
tired of being presented with the
corpse and telling the pup to drop
it, the battered peace-offering was laid
humbly on his hunk of bread. With
a roar he ordered the mong to
“take his rubbish to hell out of it,”
but that evening he found the lizard on
his coat, and a bit later it made a surpris-
ing reappearance in the camp oven. Once
more the old bloke pitched it outside ,
when he had finished his pipe he shed his
boots and socks and crawled between the
blankets. A second later his feet encoun-
tered something cold and damp. He
jumped up warily, then slowly an unholy
grin creased his dial. He’d show that
mong. He’d teach him once and for all
what Obedience meant. Feeling round he
grabbed the pup and depositee! him on
the bunk. Then he lit the lamp and
turned to the bed, beneath the covering
of which something convulsed and
heaved. Then Seventyfiver grabbed a
waddy and laid in, to the pup’s delight.
It was a 4ft. black snake.
“C.E.”: I was out with Sandy one day
and was struck with the technique of his
cocker spaniel in dispatching different
reptiles. First thing he encountered was
a large lizard ; snatching it up behind
the neck he stood and shook vigorously
for a few minutes before dropping it life-
less. A bit further on it was a black
snake on the track. We paused, but in
a flash the cocker had Joe in the same
grip and was handing out the same treat-
ment, only this time he didn’t stand for
a second. Up the trail he raced, dashing
the snake about for a fresh grip, then
back again, never far away but with never
a pause to allow his victim to coil. We
were on our way home when we ran
into the dog’s long suit: a goanna. My
suggestion of a truce was overruled, and
the tyke landed his favorite hold. Then
shaking the big go.’s head end, he hauled
backwards in a mighty effort to lift its
front legs from the ground. He man-
aged it, and, keeping out of range, con-
tinued to deal out punishment as he
backed in a circle. Quarter of an hour
later a ring of beaten grass showed where
the now exhausted mong had pivoted the
go. to his doom.
* * * *
“Te Aute”: We Maorilanders don’t
need to follow “Stanus” (B. 12/7/’44)
and start blowing down shotgun barrels
to make bush calls. Anyone bushed in
this country simply gets two handfuls of
moss and bangs them together. The
resultant clamor can be heard for miles.
* * * *
“B. A. Ker”: I don’t think even our
most confirmed contradicter would deny
that the hawk is the ace flier of all Aussie
birds (B. 9/ 8 / '44). But two of a kind
will beat an ace, as a pair of crows
strikingly demonstrated to me —and a
large eagle-hawk. Attracted by the
“cawing” I sighted the trio flying very
high, one Kelly about 10 or 15 feet above
the hawk, the other the same distance
below. Several times the highest bird
made a feint dive, without a response
from the soaring hawk. The next time
the dive followed through; there was a
second of confusion, then the crow
climbed swiftly, hotly pursued by the
bigger bird. Like a boxer leaping in
for the k.o. the lower crow streaked for
the unprotected belly. Instantly the hawk
flattened out to a level plane both crows
fell back into formation, and the flight
was resumed almost leisurely, it
appeared from the ground. For some
minutes there were no hostilities ; then,
as though at a signal, the manoeuvre was
repeated. By the time the combatants
finally dropped out of sight behind a
range of hills the brief skirmish had
“He reckons he can see the Blue Mountains from up there.”
occurred five times. In ironical justice
the manoeuvre was the “blueprint” of the
method I’ve seen a pair of hawks use to
to cut starlings out of a flock. But lam
at a loss to find a motive for the crows’
attack. As the battle was still in progress
some six or seven miles away from the
place where I first saw the trio, the
Kellys could hardly have been parents
chasing an intruder away from their nest.
I’ve often wondered whether the hawk
was doing a bit of kidnapping and had
a young crow in its talons.
* * *
“Patrol Leader”: A mile or so to the
north of Kendall River, on the western
coast of Cape York Peninsula, we
encountered a party of ten abos„ all of
whom were lavishly decorated with croco-
dile teeth: a string of them around the
neck and a large tooth hanging from the
perforated lobe of each ear. One old
chap, who looked every bit of 90, carried
a spear with a head of a 6in. croc, tooth
ground down to a sharp point. The
Kendall abos. are the only northern
blacks to go in for such decorations, for
they claim to be crocodile-creators. At
every initiation ceremony blood from the
right arm of the youth being initiated is
sprinkled over a live lizard, which is then
thrown into the river, where, according
to the natives’ age-old beMef, it develops
into a crocodile —a blood-brother croco-
dile of the new member of the tribe. The
only time the natives will kill a croc, is
when a male member of the tribe dies.
The first crocodile encountered after the
death is speared; it is considered an
orphan, having lost its blood-brother, and
the beast’s teeth are distributed among
the dead man’s male relatives for personal
decoration.
* * * *
“Thugine”: Col was driving his bul-
locks one rainy day when two of his
mates passed with their- team. Half an
hour later he paused in surprise at their
camping ground on finding that they had
no fire alight. “What’s up?” he inquired.
It appeared that all their matches were
wet. “Give them to me and I’ll soon fix
them,” he volunteered. Sceptically they
handed over the bedraggled lucifers. Col
took his team some distance up the road,
turned them and set a wheel of his wagon.
Then he drove it back at a good pace,
with the locked wheel grating over the
stones. As soon as it stopped he applied
one of the wet matches to the hot wheel;
it burst into flame immediately.
* * * *
“B. 4”: Dunno if Jack Lawton was one
of the four brothers referrred to in the
poem “The Lost Bells of Juandah” (B.
26/7/’44), Often met Tom, Jim, Ted and
George on the Dawson country, all four
fearless horsemen and champion cattle-
men. Met Jack years ago, travelling
down Werna Creek, en route to Winton,
with 14,000 sheep on his own bat, and
a four-in-hand to boot. His offsider
and two backsliders nicked off when
they smelt a shanty 40 miles away. While*
the four-in-hand loafed along behind the
jumbucks, Jack, aided by some magnifi-
cent kelpies, kept the mass of mutton
moving ; the trouble was to prevent their
boxing with station sheep. The boss of
the run, to whom I explained Lawton’s
predicament, appeared indifferent until I
mentioned that the 14,000 would be about
40,000 unless he saw the drover through
his run. Carrying on thus, this superb
drover worked his epic way till he
reached a mail-change on the Ayrshire
Downs road, whence he collected a few
monkey conductors suffering a holiday.
* * * *
“W. 0.2”: We had been instructed not
to land on Bentinck Island, in the Gulf
of Carpentaria, as a previous patrol had
had a brush with the primitive Islanders
resulting in loss of life. The Bentinck
natives are ranked as the most primitive
in the whole of the Pacific ; completely
ignorant of even the simplest forms of
civilised existence, they wear no clothes,
build no homes, use no cooking or eating
utensils, and live solely on fish, oysters,
turtles . and bush berries. They have
always refused to make friends with
whites and are hostile to all visitors.
Skirting the south-eastern corner of the
island we surprised one of the islanders
at sea, sitting on a pile of dried grass in
the centre of a roughly V-shaped raft,
about Bft. long, constructed of a few sap-
lings tied together with vines. He was
heading for home, paddling his raft along
slowly with a paddle resembling a long
cricket bat in shape ; but as soon as he
saw us swing round the corner of the
island he dropped the paddle, plunged
overboard and swam madly for the island.
On reaching the shore he dashed into the
bush without once looking back. Our
powerful glasses failed to detect any sign
of natives on the island; always at the
approach of a strange vessel the women
and children are sent into the interior to
some secret hiding place, while the men,
armed with spears, remain on guard con-
cealed in the bush.
. * * #
“E. 2”: At Bundy’s clearing sale the
ladies of Lowingkyne were spreading a
lunch to raise money for patriotic
funds. Prepared for a rush of customers
after the furniture was sold, they were a
bit disturbed when it didn’t come. “Can’t
make it out at all,” said Dan, who was
lending a hand. “There was a big mob
lined up when I went to empty the tea-
pots, an’ by the time I blew the choked-
up tea-leaves out o’ the spouts they all
seemed to have drifted away!”
* * * *
“Dinkum”: Many a simple accident in
the bush could easily prove fatal. Take
Nickson’s experience. He had promised
to get the gushing schoolmarm a young
parrot, and finding a nest in the widen-
ing crack of a tree he pulled his nag
against the trunk, stood in the saddle, and
stretching up shoved his hand into the
opening. His fingertips just touched the
youngsters when the nag took fright and
jumped. Next thing Nick knew his wrist
liad slid down the narrowing crack and
(re was suspended there until located the
following morning. Accidents from falls,
flying limbs or a mis-stepping nag are
common enough; but Buff struck a rare
turn when he was held up by a couple
of rabbit-traps. He was setting each side
of a small track out on Baldy when some-
how he cauglff his hand in the second
trap. He jumped, swore, his heel skidded,
and as he flung out his other hand to
save himself it contacted the plate of the
first trap. Both pegs were driven tight,
and Buff found himself sprawling help-
lessly on his back, each outstretched hand
gripped by a trap. The search party next
day gathered the story from Buff’s posi-
tion, his description of the affair being
too involved to follow.
“HE’LL GO Y’!”
There’s a dinkum Aussie phrase,
Heard wherever jumbucks graze,
When bull or ram is feeling fresh
And lusts, perhaps, for human flesh —
“He’ll go y’! ”
In mining camp, in shearing shed,
Not seldom you can hear it said;
In hazard-school and boxing hall;
And Weaver has been known to bawl
, “I’ll go y’!”
It’s nearly always future, tense;
But don’t forget to put a fence
’Twixt you and any irate sire
Stamping defiance, snorting fire,
Who’ll go y’!
VICTORIA.
W. L. B.


Australian, Mercantile, Land & Finance
Company, Limited
(INCORPORATED IN ENGLAND IN 1863)
WOOL, FAT STOCK, STORE AND STUD STOCK,
PRODUCE AND PROPERTY SALESMEN
General Manager for Australia: R. SINCLAIR SMITH.
ADVANCES MADE ON GRAZING PROPERTIES, ON STOCK, AND ON
CONSIGNMENTS OF WOOL, SKINS, HIDES, TALLOW, ETC.
LICENSED AUCTIONEERS, STOCK AND STATION AGENTS.
SYDNEY OFFICE; A. M. MURDOCH, Manager.
ALSO AT MELBOURNE, BRISBANE, NEWCASTLE, WAGGA, HENTY, HAY, MOREE,
TOWNSVILLE, CHA RLEVILLE, BUENOS AIRES, LONDON.
GENERAL AGENTS IN NEW SOUTH WAL'ES FOR NORTHERN ASSURANCE CO.. LTD.
CERTAIN DEATH
to RABBITS
cv
The safest, surest, and most economical solution of the rabbit
menace.
The only way to carry the maximum number of sheep is to clear
out all the rabbits.
(Regd.)
SAVES
MANPOWER
“IT’S THE GAS THAT KILLS THEM”
a^n‘storekeeper** BUZACOTT-WOLSELEY PTY..LTD.,
throughout Australia. 7-11 MARKET STREET, SYDNEY.
LYSAG.OTS
ROOF
100 % Australian-made
from Australian Material
Wire Netting
Wire Nails
Gur Netting and Other Products are
known throughout the Commonwealth
as of the highest standard.
LOOK for Our MARKER in
every Roll of Netting.
LYSAGHTS
Fencing Wire
ESTABLISHED 1884
Barbed Wire
Zinc Oxide
QUALITY GUARANTEED.
Obtainable from all the Leading
Merchants, Storekeepers and Agents.
Lysaght Bros. & Co. Pty., Ltd.
Head Office: 17-19 Bridge Street, Sydney.
SPECIFY
"LYSAGHT'S" WIRE, WIRE NETTING, ETC.
THE MAN ON
THE LAND
"DON'T WORRY, I'M SENDING IT TO
GRAZCOS."
Brisbane Beef Show.
“Norther”: It was the biggest line-up
of cattle the R.N.A. has ever had; more
than half of them Herefords. Big classes
meant a tailing in quality, but generally
it was a good show, and indicated an im-
provement. Most Queensland beef studs
are founded on N.S.W. stock, and there is
always N.S.W. competition ; still the locals
got a fair share of wins. H. C. and J. C.
Taylor, of Harrow, Cambooya, won 11
firsts and seven seconds in the Short-
horns, had champion and reserve cows
and junior and reserve junior champ,
bulls. McCaughey’s Coonong Merry
King, the champion, is a splendid red
beast with plenty of style. The Taylor
cow, Turanville Southern Pye 33rd, was
in good bloom, and showed nice breeding
qualities. Jim Scrymgeour won the
polled bull championship with Netherby
Welcome Guest, a little beauty, and
Peel River Co.’s Peel Phyllis, champion
polled cow, got there on her Scottish
bearing and color.
L. P. Dutton, the Guyra (N.S.W.)
cattleman who judged Herefords, looked
as though he’d like to take ’em all home.
He gave the sire championship to Ennis-
view Beau Geste, an E. R. Reynolds
production from Oakey, and the cow
championship to Fenwick Bros.’ Myall
Carrissima Third. Milton Duntroon,
polled Hereford champion at Sydney, won
the Brisbane ribbon for R. L. Atkinson.
In both sections there was a fair amount
of tail.
The Booroomooka stud, H. R. Munro’s
Bingara (N.S.W.) outfit, won the Aber-
deen-Angus bull honor with B. Marquis,
and he had to be a darned good bull to
do it. Queensland had the best cow, Web-
ster of Kingaroy’s Sarum stud collecting
with Sarum Netta Third. There were
only R. A. Howell’s Devon Court Devons
on show, a fact which reduced interest
in the section. Though the show was a
big one, from a numerical point of view,
it is obvious that Australian breeders can
improve a lot more. All the same, war
and drought have to be reckoned with,
and, in the light of present conditions, it
wasn’t a bad quality display.
The beef sales suggested that Queens-
landers like the Hereford, polled and
horned. The junior champion, Windsor
Trumpeter, from Mcll wrath’s N.S.W.
stud, made the Queensland record of
1300gns., paid by the Moores, of Baram-
bah. Trumpeter is only 11 months old.
His auction record was beaten in a pri-
vate sale, when Fenwick Bros, got
1350gns. for the two-year-old winner.
Myall Picadilly, from K. J, Loughran of
Blackbutt. There were two lOOOgns.
bulls, Mrs. Wright, of Blandford, getting
that price for Golf Hill Adventurer from
the Dal by breeder, Jim Sparkes, and
E. E. D. White, of Greenmount, selling
Woodlands Vengeance, a son of the
double Sydney champ.. Golf Hill Vul-
can, to Barnes of Warwick. Camboon
paid 650gns. and 300gns. for a couple of
Woodlands bulls. Nineteen bulls made
an average of £550 each. Polled Here-
fords were up in the 370-390gns. class.
The demand for Shorthorns was poor,
and a lot were passed in. Best price was
500gns. for the champion, paid by Daan-
dine Pastoral Co. The junior champ, was
passed in at 425gns. Pegler of Quilpie
got Coonong Majestic, last year’s junior
reserve, for 370gns. The best polled
Shorthorn price went to Scrymgeour’s
Netherby Knight Baronet, bought by J.
Allingham of the Towers. Scrymgeour
got 450gns. for Victor’s Gift in a private
deal and 350gns. for Knight Errant at
auction.
Aberdeen-Angus values were down, the
best being 300gns. for the champion,
bought by C. Pollock, of Mt. Perry.
Other sales were made from 250gns.
down.
Herd-testing.
“Hux”: The bull’s the starting point
for herd-improvement, and the one with
a production background lifts produc-
tion levels. Testing determines which
bulls are capable of transmitting high
productive capacity.
National value of herd-testing is seen
in Denmark and Maoriland, where it has
raised the quality of all dairy stock. A
campaign in Denmark over 40 years
resulted in the average production per
cow exceeding that of any other country.
In pre-war years 650,000 cows (40 p.c. of
the Danish cow population) were tested
annually. At the start the cow’s output
equalled that of existent Queensland
dairies; by 1939 butterfat per cow
averaged 3001 b. In one district herds of
100.000 cows under test reached 3751 b.
per cow. Average fat content of the
milk was increased from 3.3 to 3.9 p.c.
Maoriland began testing in 1924, with
31.000 cows averaging 2071 b. per cow.
In 10 years numbers increased to 62,300,
the yield rising to 2551 b. of butterfat per
cow. Before the war, cows tested annually
numbered 300,000. Farmers willingly
paid the cost of recording work at ss. per
cow.
Best Australian records in herd-im-
provement are held by Victoria, produc-
tion per cow being above that of every
other State. Iff 1939-40 Victorian cows
were producing 533 gallons as against the
Australian average of 390 gallons. In
Gippsland herd-testing lifted the butterfat
level of 1791 b. per cow to 2681 b. per cow,
an increase of 50 p.c,
L. Andersen, a Queensland dairy ex-
pert, quotes the success of a Queensland
farmer. A fair proportion of his stock
was pure, with production above aver-
age, but he was dissatisfied with
yields. In 1938 tie submitted 45 cows;
they averaged 1831 b. butter per cow. Low
producers were eliminated. Over six
years all cows were tested regularly.
Herd average now stands at 2501 b.
butterfat per cow —an increase of 36 p.c. ;
highest producer yields 4001 b. With
butterfat at 7s. 6d. per lb. the output of
82351 b. produced by 45 cows in 1938 was
worth £617. In 1943 the same number of
cows yielded 11,2501 b. of butterfat worth
£843.
Orphan Pigs.
“Myrrhee”: Give them fresh, whole
cows’ milk at slightly higher than luke-
warm temperature until they are four
weeks old. Orphans should receive six
feeds daily for the first week. The num-
ber of meals can be reduced gradually
until the pigs are three weeks old, when
they are given three meals a day in addi-
tion to the meal and water provided.
The milk is best fed in a shallow vessel
that can be washed clean after each meal.
The pigs may be taught to drink by
dipping their noses in the milk during the
first few meals. From four weeks add
separated milk to the ration daily, in
small quantities, until the pigs are receiv-
ing all separated milk by the time they
are eight weeks old. From three weeks
feed a dry mixture of cereal meals in a
trough, and allow the pigs access to
pasture.
St. John’s Wort.
. “Hav”: It’s a menace to land and stock
alike, spreads rapidly, crowds out natural
grasses, takes possession and the land
has to be abandoned. Stock eating it
are affected in the nervous system, which
leads to injuries and skin troubles and
eventually death. Black-skinned animals
are immune.
Where plants are isolated, dig them
out or bum off and sprinkle salt round
the roots afterwards. Sodium chlorate,
lib. per gallon of water, can take the
place of salt at the rate of 150 gallons per
acre. Apply in July or August; repeat
in the spring to destroy the plants that
escaped the first spraying.
Burning before the seed’s dropped is
useful on infested arable land. Plough
and cultivate regularly from the time the
first growth shows up. Labor and tem-
porary loss of land involved are repaid
by bringing the weed under control. In
autumn, sow early varieties of wheat or
oats at two bushels to the acre. If this
is harvested for hay before the seeds of
the weed ripen, the risk of mixing them
with the fodder is eliminated. Crops left
in till the seeds ripen distribute the wort
further afield, are unsafe for hay but
make fair silage.
When the area’s extensive and the weed
coverage heavy, try smothering with sub-
terranean clover. Start with a ploughing
five inches deep in October and leave the
land to fallow. In March sow the clover,
41b. to 61b. per acre, plus lewt. super.
Topdress annually in autumn with super,
at the same rate.
Tree-planting.
“L.C.”: Choose the site carefully when
planting in the open ground. Shy clear
of spots exposed to winds, frosty hollows
or the neighborhood of matured trees
with roots that suck up moisture. Make
sure of good drainage and choose loose
soils to help the root system develop
easily. Stiff clays cramp roots; sandy
soils scorch them. Dig the ground deeply,
work to a fine tilth and shade from flie
sun. Whether sowing in seedbox, pot
or open ground, keep the soil damp, not
wet.
For small seed such as eucalypt, give
the soil a topdressing of sand, water well,
broadcast the seed, cover with dry sand
and flatten with a board to press the seed
in. To germinate eucalypt seed, place
lin. of sawdust over the top of the sand,
sow the seed and cover with |in. of saw-
dust. Keep damp. Sprouting usually
begins from the eighth day. Sow all seed
thinly to avoid damping off. In most
cases, depth of soil covering the seed
should equal the size of the seed itself.
Hints for the Farm.
“Portergaff”: Well-nourished sheep
show marked natural resistance to worm
infestation. Keep plentiful supply of
copper sulphate (bluestone) handy; a
bluestone and nicotine sulphate solution
is an effective worm drench. Use enamel-
ware and porcelain vessels when prepar-
ing drench; bluestone will corrode ordi-
nary utensils. In half pint of boiling
water dissolve 2oz. bluestone, add enough
cold water to make one gallon. Then
add 2oz. nicotine sulphate. After treat-
ment stock should be removed to fresh
pasture. If possible, burning-off worm-
infested pasture is best method of destroy-
ing young worms.
“L.C.”: When choosing a breeding
dairy cow, look for a bold, prominent
eye, broad muzzle and strong underjaw.
Neck must be lean ; if it’s coarse the
cow’s likely to turn out a poor producer.
Ample spring of rib, depth of body, pro-
minent vertebrae, well-defined hips and
pin bones; fine skin and good-quality
bone are other important points. See that
the udder and milk veins are all they
should be. Never use a bull from a cow
that’s a freak in conformation, even if
she is a record-breaker; ten to one she’ll
fail to hand down her heavy producing
qualities.
“Sarina”: Horses can be trained like
children on sanitary matters. The well-
trained horse doesn’t pollute his stall
Don’t allow a horse into the feeder until
he has answered nature. You’ll be sur-
prised how quickly a nag gets to know
what is expected of him when you lead
him up to the manure heap noon and
night. Do it a few times, and he’ll do
it himself ever afterwards. Incidentally,
if a nag fails to urinate before his mid-
day meal, give him a chance to do so
before putting him to work in the after-
noon. Some nags won’t pollute their
stable with urine or dung, but if urine is
withheld for long colic will be caused.
“Myrrhee”: Late Valencias should be
harvested before the fruit becomes too
severely granulated, to which, when
grown on a rough lemon stock, it is very
susceptible. This condition is character-
ised by a loss of pulp color, juice and
flavor, particularly around the stem end,
and a thickening of the walls of the juice
vesicles which gives the pulp a harsh,
coarse texture. It is a symptom of over-
maturity, and fruit with a tendency to
develop granulation should be picked
early.
“Sarina”: Charcoal is not only good
for pigs; it’s essential as an internal
cleanser, ridding the organs of impuri-
ties. Good charcoal can be obtained by
igniting dry logs and extinguishing them
when half burned through, or burn
stripped corn cobs and animal bones ano
saturate the vivid red coals. Even hne
wood ashes are handy in the pigsty.


UNCABLED ADDITIONS
U.S. Views on Trusting Russia.
(From an Amercian Institute of Public Opinion
report by its director, George Gallup.)
Although U.S. sentiment favorable to
Russia has increased as compared to two
years ago, there is still rather widespread
questioning throughout the country as
to the post-war intentions of the Soviet
Union.
A national survey by the Institute
shows that whereas the weight of opinion
is that Russia can be trusted to co-operate
with us after the war, nevertheless about
half the country either thinks she defi-
nitely cannot be trusted or is not sure
about it.
This scepticism represents a factor
which Washington will have to reckon
with in dealings with Russia after the
war. Whether the doubts concerning
Russia’s intentions are justifiable or not,
their very existence poses a problem for
realistic statesmanship.
The trend of sentiment toward the
Soviets has been measured by the Insti-
tute in five surveys on the following
question: —
“Do you think Russia can be trusted
to co-operate with us when the war is
over?”
Yes. No. Undec.
March, 1942 .. .. 39 p.c. 39 p.c. 22 p.c.
February, 1943 .. 46 „ 29 „ 25 „
April, 1943 .. .. 44 „ 34 „ 22 „
November, 1943 .. 47 ,, 27 „ 26.,,
Today 47 „ 36 „ 17 „
The lack of agreement about Russia’s
post-war intentions is one main reason
w'hy American opinion is sharply divided
on the idea of a permanent military alli-
ance with Moscow similar to the pro-
posed American alliance with England.
When opinion was tested on a Rus-
sian alliance last autumn it was found
that 39 per cent, favored it while 37 per
cent, were opposed and 24 per cent,
expressed no opinion. By contrast, an
alliance with England after this war
was favored by 61 per cent, and with
China by 56 per cent.
Outing Neutrality.
{Condensed from the ‘‘Saturday Evening Post.”)
There has been surprisingly little com-
ment upon the fact that the United States,
in bringing pressure upon Sweden, Argen-
tina and Ireland to cease aiding Axis
nations, has broken sharply with one of
America’s traditional doctrines —that of
neutrality.
In a speech in April Secretary Hull
said: “We can no longer acquiesce in
these nations drawing upon the resources
of the Allied world when they at the
same time contribute to the death of
troops whose sacrifice contributes to their
salvation as well as ours.” He made it
clear that the reason we had not got
tough earlier was that “we were muster-
ing our strength and helping to restore
that of our Allies” and lacked the extra
punch to put the heat on neutrals.
Logically, of course, these small nations
can remind us that, before the Japanese
kicked us in the face, we insisted not
only on our right to remain out of the
conflict but on our right to trade with
the belligerents. When Mr. Hull turns
his back on neutrality and its intimate
connection with American foreign policy,
he must know that in any future war an
American reliance on neutrality would
have to get over the hurdle of our acts
toward 1944 neutrals. It is our guess that
he knows that, in the world as it is likely
to be from now on, neutrality is out the
window.
However, the concept of neutrality can-
not be abandoned merely as a gesture of
convenience, at a time when we happen
to have “mustered our strength” suffi-
ciently to compel other countries to fall
in with our wishes. There must be some
principle in all this, and we believe that
principle can rest only on the emergence
of a society of nations pledged to com-
mon action against disturbers of the
peace. Hitler once predicted that the
conquest of a world would be easy for a
nation of 70,000,000 because “when we
start upon the first of the 20 nations we
must conquer the others will proclaim
their neutrality, will leave us strictly
alone.... .Thus we can pick off the
nations one by one.” From 1939 until
Pearl Harbor it looked as if Hitler might
succeed in employing the ancient doc-
trine of neutrality to carry his purpose to
a successful conclusion. Now that we
[U.S.A.] are strong enough we are saying
to the other nations “You had a lot of
luck in not being conquered, but we do
not propose to let you delay our victory
by supplying the enemy.”
If that is all we intend to say our policy
stands as a mere act of force and expedi-
ency. Supplemented, as it must eventu-
ally be, by a firmer “organisation of
sovereign States,” our brusqueness is
translatable into a concept of inter-
national responsibility which modifies
neutrality as a legal doctrine, even as
modern weapons have modified it as a
physical reality.
Craft They Land From.
(From an article by Richard L. Tobin, N.Y.
‘‘Herald Tribune v correspondent with the Allied
Expeditionary Force.)
Motion pictures substantiate eye-
witness accounts that on D-Day the Eng-
lish Channel was no millpond. How was
the invasion made, despite whitecaps that
turned into white horses, and, in the
motion pictures of the landing, appeared
to have come near drowning every Allied
soldier as he struggled ashore? The best
way to understand it is to review what
the United States Navy had in the way of
landing ships and landing craft on D-Day.
Broadly speaking, landing vessels are
divided into three classes: “landing ship,”
which designates the largest models de-
signed for landing; “landing craft,”
which are vessels smaller than ships ; and
“landing vehicles,” which are vehicles
that are actually amphibious.
The landing ships always start out with
the initials “L.S.” One of the largest is
the “L.S.T.,” or “Landing Ship, Tanks.”
The L.S.T. is more than 300 feet long
and 50 feet beam. She ranges from
4000 tons upward. Tanks of all sizes are
transported and landed through swinging
doors and ramps in the bows of the L.S.T.
Besides tanks, the L.S.Ts. transport and
land bulldozers that can cut, trim and
level almost any piece of ground into an
airfield or an encampment within one
day. So the L.S.Ts. cannot go into shore
until a beachhead is relatively secure. All
L.S.Ts. are ocean-going. One remark-
able feature of an L.S.T. is that she has
ballast tanks that not only list the ship
for landings of smaller craft (which she
carries on her deck and slides off), but
which also reduce her draft and permit
her to run up on the beach.
The largest landing ship, indeed the
only one larger than an L.S.T., is the less-
frequently seen “Landing Ship, Dock,”
or L.S.D. She is an adaptation of the
floating drydock,. is designed to transport
and launch smaller landing craft and,
after an assault has secured beaches, she
is used as a floating dock for all manner
of boats needing repair or storage. The
L.S.D. looks like a destroyer from the
front, with her numerous anti-tank guns
forward. But she is all drydock in her
last two-thirds of length. Her length is
close to 500 feet.
The largest landing craft is the “Land-
ing Craft, Infantry,” or L.C.I., which is
158 feet long and can carry about 200
soldiers in troop compartments with
bunks for each. The first model was
tested in October, 1942. The British
wanted larger troop-landing craft than the
small ferry-boats then in use. So the
L.C.I. was designed for troops alone. An
L.C.I. looks like a square merchant ship,
except that one end has two gangways
that can be dropped into the water close
to the beach, one on either side, down
which fully armed soldiers have no great
difficulty getting ashore in decent weather.
On D-Day the weather was anything but
decent.
Another vessel of this size is a smaller
cousin of the L.S.T. This one is called
a “Landing Craft, Tank,” or L.C.T. She
is transported aboard L.S.Ts. or in sec-
tions on other larger ships. The landing
craft for tanks can go into waters where
the L.S.Ts. cannot go, very shallow
beaches, for example. The L.C.T. is an
intermediate craft, and can carry five
medium or 30-ton tanks.
Yet another landing craft is known as
a “Landing Craft, Mechanised,” or
L.C.M. This 50-foot boat looks like a
harbor barge with a big nose. She can
carry a medium tank, a half-track or a
heavy truck from one of the larger land-
ing ships right up to the shore, where
the medium tank, half-track or heavy
truck can move on to the beach under its
own power. All Allied armor used in
invasions is completely waterproofed,
mainly against such things as surf and
deep water along a pitted shore line.
Next there is a vessel that looks like a
sea sled, or a rectangular block of wood
that is called “Landing Craft, Personnel.”
The L.C.P. can carry 36 men and total
cargo of 80001b. Sometimes a whole fleet
of L.C.Ps. will be brought over on a
larger ship and then dumped into the in-
vasion shore water on their own. Some-
times an L.C.P. will tow a fleet of L.C.Rs.
(Landing Craft, Rubber). An L.C.R.
looks like an overgrown rubber boat used
in emergency ocean landings by aviators.
An L.C.R. holds 10 men and can be
paddled by hand if silence is required.
Another version of the “Landing Craft,
Personnel,” is called “Landing Craft,
Vehicle Personnel,” or L.C.V.P. She car-
ries 36 troops or a one-ton truck, or
80001 b. of cargo. As is true with landing
craft and landing ships of all kinds, this
small floating bridge to a beachhead is
well armed against aircraft or fire power
ashore. In fact, most landing ships, craft
and vehicles bristle with machine-guns
and cannon. .
Now we come to landing vehicles
that is to say, vehicles that are actually
amphibious, floating on the water or mov-
ing on land with equal facility. The first
of these is the “Landing Vehicle,
Tracked,” or L.V.T. It is better known
as the alligator. The alligator gained
fame at Tarawa, sweeping over reefs, on
to shore and on the island when other
landing craft had difficulty. This armored
monster looks like an enormous and high-
waisted tank, and it can carry 20 men. It
is 25 feet long and fierce with machine-
guns. The fact that the men inside come
ashore behind armor protection makes
the L.V.T. one of the most formidable
weapons in the world.
The best known amphibious vehicle in
the United States Army, and probably in
the whole world, is the duck. Basically,
a duck is a heavy truck with a steel hull,
a propeller and navigation equipment
added. It can carry supplies or troops ;
it is both sea-going and land-going. As
the duck comes ashore the power to drive
the propeller in the stern when afloat is
smoothly applied to the wheels and the
duck looks exactly like a duckling looks
waddling out of the water and on to the
beaches. Forward motion from water to
land is continuous. A duck out of water
looks like a motpr-boat being wheeled
overland from one body of water to
another. But the duck has the great
advantage of moving under its own power
in the water or out of it.
The amphibious jeep is yet another ver-
sion of the amphibious family born in
this war, and without which there would
hqve been no invasion at all. It is exactly
what the name suggests.
Seeing these wonderments of Allied in-
vasion together, a man begins to compre-
hend what imagination and work, what
extraordinary planning went on almost in
silence in the two years between the
American entry into the war and the in-
vasion of France.
Settling Lend-lease.
(From ‘‘United States News.”)
Lend-lease debts will not become war
debts ; will not become millstones around
the necks of borrowers. Plan of settle-
ment, now shaping up, calls for the fol-
lowing : —
Munitions: The $13,000,000,000 of
lend-lease munitions are to be written off
as a U.S. war expense, as an investment
in lives of U.S. soldiers saved.
Food: The $3,200,000,000 of foodstuffs
supplied by U.S. are to be treated as a
common war expense and written off;
food helped keep foreign soldiers fight-
ing.
Services: The same treatment is to be
accorded another $3,000,000,000 in ser-
vices rendered by U.S., in ship repair,
ferrying of aircraft, etc.
An accounting will be asked on more
than $5,000,000,000 of U.S.-supplied
machinery, machine tools, industrial
materials, etc. There will be an effort to
determine the amount of U.S. investment
in goods of permanent peace-time value
to countries that received lend-lease aid.
That will be bargained over.
Result is that a $25,000,000,000 lend-
lease bill will shrink to less than
$5,000,000,000. Actually the final ac-
counting will lead to a reduction to no
more than a fraction of $5,000,000,000,
with that bill divided among many
nations.
It is doubtful, finally, if any one
nation will be charged $1,000,000,000.
This means that lend-lease is not to
become a war-debt problem. It is not to
be a barrier to post-war agreement on
money and trade and investment.
Italy’s Political Set-up.
(This explanation of Catholic-Left associations
and other aspects of current politics in Italy was
written for Religious News Service by Don Luigi
Sturzo, the veteran Italian politician who
founded the Italian Catholic Popular party.)
Co-operation between Catholics and
Communists in Italy has led to misunder-
standing both as to its nature and impli-
cations. No party in Italy has forsaken
its basic principles, but all have put aside
questions not of urgent importance, with
the single aim of helping the rebirth of
the nation and participating with the
Allies in the war effort.
When the time is ripe each will emerge
with its own post-liberation platform.
The complete governmental co-opera-
tion between the Christian Democratic
party and the Communists is a political
co-operation made necessary to fight the
German Army and the Fascist puppet
Government and to reorganise civil and
economic life in the liberated provinces
with the help of the Allied Military Gov-
ernment. It represents a full expression
of the people’s will emerging from chaos
to life.
This co-operation is not only between
Christian Democrats and Communists,
but with the other four anti-Fascist parties
now controlling the Italian Government.
An American correspondent has re-
ported the existence of a small movement
of “Catholic Communists” in Rome num-
bering 400. It would be a mistake to
regard the movement as of real signifi-
cance.
These Communist sympathisers are
practising Catholics who believe it is pos-
sible to accept many of the economic
principles of Communism and reject the
old anti-religious policy of Moscow and
the Marxist materialistic conception of
life. I am sure that the new move of
Premier Stalin in establishing a council
for conducting the Soviet Union’s rela-
tions with leaders of the various faiths in
Russia will be a fresh argument for their
hopes.
To the question sometimes put to me
whether, after the liberation, Catholics
and Communists in Italy will co-operate
as closely as at present, I answer: Ido
not know how much co-operation be-
tween the Communists and the five other
parties in the Government will be pos-
sible. I foresee that the present situation
will continue until the election of the dele-
gates to the Constituent Assembly. There-
after, much will depend on whether Italy
is free to choose her Government with-
out interference from outside.
One of the most hopeful factors in the
midst of a confusion of ideas and feelings
is the growth of the Christian Democratic
party. It is not an expression of one
class but of all social classes. The party
is a revival of the old Popular party,
founded in January, 1919, and dissolved
by the Fascist Government in November,
1926. It has the same programme, and,
in great measure, the same leaders.
The Christian Democratic party’s mem-
bership is conditioned not on religious
affiliation but on acceptance of its own
political, social and economic programme.
Democracy is not accepted by all
Catholics and Christianity is not accepted
by agnostics, positivists or naturalists. The
Christian Democrats assert both as a pro-
gramme and will fight for them as a party
in the political field only.
For this reason the Christian Demo-
cratic party does not belong to Catholic
Action, which is subject to ecclesiastical
authorities.
The growth of the Christian Demo-
cratic party promises to be continuous
and hopeful. Its recognised chief is Dr.
Alcide de Gaspari, Minister without Port-
folio, who was president of the Popu-
lar party*group in the Chamber of Depu-
ties between 1921 and 1926.
Christian Democrats in Italy have
formed a true Centre party between
Liberals and Democrats on the Right and
Actionists, Socialists and Communists on
the Left. If they will have (as 1 think
they will) the same importance as the
Popular party before Fascism, or even
more, they will be a main factor of the
future policy of Italy.
On the other hand, if the present
declarations of the Communist chief in
Italy in favor of small property and the
democratic system of religious tolerance
are accepted by the whole party and
approved by Moscow, the way for anew
step in the collaboration of all parties
will be still open.
That is the main question for Italy and
for Europe; What will be the policy of
Moscow?
Palestine Problems.
(Condensed from a ‘‘Christian Science Monitor”
article by Joseph G. Harrison, staff correspon-
dent recently returned from an extended assign-
ment in the Middle East.)
If any nation begrudges Britain its
Empire, a look at Palestine should con-
vince it that the obligations of empire
often outweigh the benefits. For only
statesmanship of the very highest order
and inspiration can resolve the present
deadlock in the Holy Land in a way that
is just for both Arab and Jew.
Today Palestine can be called reason-
ably peaceful. Prompt British action, as
well as widespread condemnation by the
overwhelming portion of the Jewish com-
munity there, quickly stopped the wave of
lawlessness which broke out in Palestine
earlier this year.
This terrorism, which took the form of
murdering police officers from ambush


<<
It was a
good day for us
when we bought
Feltex
o o
/
>
w
-fk
/
now were free to buy
Commonwealth War Bonds’
FELT AND TEXTILES OF AUSTRALIA LTD.
Manufacturers of FELTEX Floor Coverings
} en he's an “ordinary
listener ' again. . . he-iistmbe
a wireless expert. And his
radio will have to be a
real engineering job.
Jmmm
mmsmm
“HIS MASTER S VOICE”
True -to-life EADIO
THE GRAMOPHONE CO. LTD.
(Incorporated in England)
HOMEBUSH
N.S.W.
R7/44
After the war your local
dealer will once again be
fully equipped to serve you
with new “ His Masters
Voice” Radio Receivers and
Radiograms.
and of bombing police and immigration
stations, appears now to have been no
more than a tentative and half-hearted
attempt to attract world attention to the
Zionist cause at the moment when the
end of the period of Jewish immigration
into the country, as set by the 1939 White
Paper, was approaching.
But nobody, least of all the British offi-
cials in the Middle East, believes that the
present quiet is more than the tag-end of
the truce which has been observed by
both sides during the war. However, it
is just possible that certain recent develop-
ments may have altered the situation
somewhat.
Foremost among these is the sys-
tematic and unparalleled slaughter of the
Jewish population in the countries of
occupied Europe. No one knows, of
couse, just how far this dreadful process
has gone, but some Jewish leaders fear
that very few of their co-religionists will
ever escape the Nazi fury. If this be true
it could change the complexion of the
Palestinian problem, since the Zionists
have based their estimates of the coun-
try’s future Jewish population on the
premise of large-scale emigrations from
Europe.
On the basis of hard demographic facts,
Jews would seem to have little chance of
ever realising their cherished wish of be-
coming a majority in Palestine. Today
the Moslem population is at least double
the Jewish, while the Moslem rate of
natural increase was found by League of
Nations statisticians to be the highest in
the world.
It must be noted that there is a certain
amount of sentiment among Jews in
Palestine in favor of a “radical” solution
of the problem, that is, through the expul-
sion of all or most of the Moslems into
neighboring Arab-speaking countries. It
is pretty safe to say that this will never
occur. The British would not permit it.
This April the chief British diplomatic
officials in Egypt, Palestine, Lebanon and
Iraq met in Cairo to discuss the Pales-
tinian problem. Their talks were highly
secret and little regarding them has so
far leaked out. Whatever the ultimate
decision regarding the Holy Land may
be, it is hardly likely to include any relin-
quishment by the British of their man-
date there.
Entirely aside from their imperial in-
terests in Palestine —and there is no deny-
ing that it is a highly important way-
station on the road to India as well as
the strategical strongpoint of the Middle
East —the British fully recognise that
Arab-Jewish aspirations are so diametri-
cally opposed at the present time that it
is impossible either to turn Palestine over
to one or the other or to abandon it in
the hope that the two groups will drift
into a peaceful compromise.
The two possible exceptions to British
mandate rule commonly mentioned in
connection with Palestine by neutral
students are (1) a joint Anglo-American
mandate and (2) rule by an international
board in which British influence would,
of course, be foremost and which would
have regard to Palestine’s unique and
privileged position as a Holy Land for
Christian, Jew and Moslem.
It is believed that the British would
welcome sharing the responsibility, par-
ticularly with the United States, although
London appears willing and determined
to handle it alone if necessary.
Although the British, in their new im-
mensely strong world position, cannot
be stampeded into a wholesale acquies-
cence with Zionist demands, it is just as
certain that they will not buckle before
Arab pressure once they have decided
what is just for that country.
Dragnet Digest.
(Condensed from various acknowledged
sources .)
“It shows that Australia is under a dictator-
ship as extreme as the dictatorships of Russia
and Germany. The United States should in-
sist the Australian people be freed, since the
United States saved them from Japan.”—
Chicago “Tribune” owner Col. McCormick,
commenting on the Australian Government re-
•fusal of permission to publish here an edition of
the “Tribune” for U.S. servicemen.
* * * *
Women voters in the U.S.A. now outnumber
men by 579,137 —the first time in history this
condition has existed. The gain in potential
voters during the last four years has been
8,000,000. Thus, in the coming elections,
women can rule the United States if they wish
to, especially with at least 7,860,000 males 21
years of age or older in the armed forces,
many of them overseas. The Census Bureau
says there will be 88,666,475 possible voters
in 1944, of whom 44,622,806 will be women,
36,183,669 male civilians, and the remaining
7,860,000 in the services.— N.Y. “Daily News.”
• * H= * *
There will be general agreement that tax
rates should be reduced after the war. How-
ever, until it is definitely known that post-war
taxes are to be reduced, the launching of new
enterprises and the expansion of existing ones
will be deferred. We recommend, therefore,
that a post-war tax law be drafted now, during
the war, and put on the shelf to go into effect
at the end of the war.— From the Baruch-Han-
cock report to U.S. Congress.
* * * *
Out of every 100 U.S. soldiers wounded in
battle the lives of 97 are saved, and the annual
mortality rate from disease in the U.S. Army
has been reduced to the remarkable low figure
of 6 in 10,000. Other figures announced by
Major-General Normal T. Kirk, Surgeon-
General: “The annual death rate per 1000 for
all diseases in the U.S. Army, excluding surgical
conditions, has been lowered from 15.6 p.c. in
the last war to only 0.6 p.c. in this war. Our
surgeons have established a record also in the
care of the wounded that is unparalleled in
the history of warfare and little short of
miraculous. Today the over-all mortality rate
among the wounded in the U.S. Army is
approximately 3 p.c., contrasting with the figure
of 8 p.c. in the last war. In abdominal in-
juries the death rate is about 25 p.c., in contrast
with over 50 p.c. in the last war.” — N.Y.
“Herald Tribune.” report.
* * * *
It is almost heresy to say that not all immi-
grants and refugees are ennobled by their suffer-
ings abroad, but there is nevertheless much bio-
graphical data to prove that many who came
to America shortly before the first World War
for asylum from European tyranny did not
join the native American youth in destroying
those tyrants, but joined alien groups and move-
ments and tried to destroy the American system
instead.— Westbrook Pegler; N.Y. “World-
Telegram. 1 ”
* * * *
Since both Poland and Russia are signatories
with us of the Atlantic Charter, and since that
charter pledges its signers against any “terri-
torial changes that do not accord with the
freely expressed wishes of the peoples con-
cerned,” the Polish-Russian border becomes
essentially a United Nations problem which can
be settled most fairly and hopefully by discus-
sion in common council. Willingness on
Russia's part' to treat it as such would be a
diplomatic blow for Hitler as effective in its
own way as the military blows which are now
being struck. — N.Y. “Times.”
* * * *
With all our steel of combat, our ’planes,
tanks, self-propelled guns and other engines of
war, it is the flesh-and-blood infantry that will
have to clinch the victory. No war factory can
invent a substitute for infantrymen. “They
are the guys,” says Ernie Pyle, “that wars can’t
be won without.”— N.Y. “Times.’'’
* * * *
Now it can be told why Roosevelt was so
tough to the Irish on removal of Axis diplo-
mats from Eire. It had been planned, in
secret, to land on the Cherbourg peninsula.
U.S. troops had to steam through the Irish
Sea and waters adjacent to Eire, because the
bulk of U.S. camps have been in the west and
north-west of England. Some troops were
moved in advance to Channel ports, but many
had to swing down through the Irish Sea
around Wales. Incidentally, the invasion prob-
cause of the false invasion dispatch, partly be-
cause of false invasion dispatch, partly be-
cause the armada, after getting ready, was held
up one day because of bad weather. — N.Y.
“Daily Mirror.”
$ # * $
In the Royal Air Force the world already
has an ideal model for an international post-
war air force. By welding into one force
refugee squadrons of Czechs, Poles, Dutch and
other nations —flyers and ground forces —the
British already have created an international
air force and its members are united by strong
ties of comradeship and esprit de corps which
surely is an asset we cannot afford to neglect
in plans for post-war reconstruction. — “Aero-
plane;” London.
* * * *
The nearer Churchill comes to deliverance
of England from its greatest danger, the deeper
he seems to retreat into the nineteenth century.
stepping toward the future with the monarchy
as his staff of oak and the Empire as his
guiding light.— Chicago “Tribune."
* * * *
Constantine Oumansky, Russian Ambassador
to Mexico, is following such an aggressive
policy in building Russian ties in that country
and :n spreading Russian influence through
Latin America that the U.S. Government is
becoming somewhat interested. Oumansky
when Ambassador to the U.S., followed a very
aggressive line. — “United States News."
* * * *
Don’t be too surprised if you wake up some
morning to discover that while you slept there
crawled under the bed what may later be known
as an “international bureaucracy.” There
doesn’t seem to be any escape from it. You
simply can’t deliver all the international con-
ferences, commissions and regulatory bodies
now a-bornin’ without building up a staff of
dry and wet nurses to look after all the weighty
brain children on which the economic obstet-
ricians now labor. The League of Nations
bureaucracy won’t be a patchin’ to what comes
next. No one Government agency has all
the statistics on these international busybodies.
The best guess is that there are between 75 and
100 of them—now —Washington correspondent
N.Y. “World-Telegram.”
King Victor Emmanuel still is to retain actual
power in Italy although nominally delegat-
ing part of his ( title to his son. The King
retains the backing of Churchill, who is look-
ing to a rebuilt alliance with Italy for Britain
after the war. — “United States News.”
Gen. Charles de Gaulle now stands a good
chance of winning his struggle for power in
France over the opposition of President Roose-
velt. If Mr. Roosevelt gives way under pres-
sure from groups at home and from the British
Government, operating indirectly, it will be in
the face of the President’s conviction that U.S.
world interests are being jeopardised. Point
is that France controls key bases in the Carib-
bean, in the Atlantic and in the Pacific that
were used against U.S. in this war and which
Mr. Roosevelt feels should be international-
ised to protect U.S. in the future. De Gaulle
offers no concession, and, if recognised, would
deny U.S. any satisfaction. — “United States
News.”
* * * *
Newspapermen’s shop-talk includes the alleged
reasons for the unpopularity of De Gaulle in
certain high political places. One statesman
said: “He is arrogant, hard to get along
with, stuffy.” Another revealed that De Gaulle
“likes to make an entrance” (especially in
swanky hotel dining-rooms), when a trumpeter
too-tootles his approach with some ta-da,
dee-da, dah, dee, da, dahing. This got on the
nerves of Allied bigshots. It is said Mr. Willkie
will certify to the last item. De Gaulle is
called “the bride” when Roosevelt discusses
him with Churchill via trans-Atlantic phone.
Once F.D.R. asked the Prime Minister: “How s
the bride?” “All right,” Mr. C. is said to
have answered., “but I am having trouble with
the ’groom”—meaning Giraud. — N.Y. “Sunday
Mirror.”
* * * *
The law that the convoy must go through
has nowhere applied more grimly or gloriously
than on the Arctic passage. The Germans, in
control of Norway and northern Finland, have
made the most resolute efforts to stop supplies.
The losses of the Royal Navy have not been
light; the merchant ships of the Allied nations
have suffered, sometimes grievously. The
Admiralty states that in the last six months
alone nearly 1,250,000 tons of war equipment
and material have been delivered; more than
98 p.c. of the supply ships reached their desti-
nation under the sure shield of the Allied war-
ships. This is an enterprise of vital importance
to the common victory. It is right that the
scale of British help to Russia and the keeping
open of the Arctic supply line against the worst
hazards should be known to the peoples of both
countries.”— London “Times.”


Personal and Missing Friends.
NEXT OF KIN.
WILL the relatives of ANTHONY SKERRETT, late
of Wellington, New Zealand, at one time of Victoria,
South Australia, Western Australia and_ New South
Wales, Miner, Shearer and Boundary Rider or any-
one knowing their whereabouts, -please communicate
with the DISTRICT PUBLIC TRUSTEE, Welling-
ton, New Zealand?
KING. —Would anyone knowing any information con-
cerning the deaths or present whereabouts of-JAMES
KING, RICHARD KING, MICHAEL KING and
CATHERINE KING please communicate with the
PUBLIC TRUSTEE, Sydney, quoting the Estate of
WILLIAM PATRICK JOSEPH KING deceased ? The
said James King married Mary Ryan at -Sydney in
1865 and the said Richard King, Michael King and
Catherine King are stated to have been children of
that marriage.
Divorce Notice.
TO DONALD FREDERICK MATHESON formerly of
Queensland Road Murwillumbah in the State of New
South Wales but whose present whereabouts are
unknown.—-TAKE NOTICE that an Action has been
commenced against you in the Supreme Court of
Queensland at Brisbane by Writ of Summons Number
572 of 1944 by FREDA AMY MATHESON your wife
in which she claims a dissolution of her marriage
with you and the custody of the children of the
marriage and by her Petition filed herein she alleges
that in or about the month of June 1932 you with-
out cause deserted her and have since continuously
deserted her without cause for five years and up-
wards and it has been ordered that service on you
of the said Petition and of the said Writ be effected
hy sticking up on the Notice Board in the Registry
of the said Court a copy of the said Petition and
the said Writ and by inserting this notice in two
issues of each of the following newspapers published
at intervals of not less than one week: “Sydney
Morning Herald,” “The Bulletin” and “Smith’s
Weekly” If you desire to defend this Action you
must within 46 days from the performance of the
last of the said acts enter an appearance at the said
Registry and in default of such appearance judg-
ment may be given against you Dated this Ninth
day of August 1944.—(m5.) J. S. GIBSON, Second
Deputy Registrar.
THESAURUS OF THE ARTS
FACTS AT YOUR FINGER TIPS ON EVERY FIELD OF ART.
Drama, Music, Ballet, Radio, Motion Pictures, Literature, Paintings, Sculpture, Architecture. By
Albert E. Wier. 690 pages. Size 10 x 7 inches. Price 42/- (post. 1/-).
This liberal education on the arts contains more than 8,500 references, with concise, non-technical
information concerning personalities, subjects, and terms. Nowhere else is so much compact, reliable
information on the people and things associated with the arts to be had in such convenient form.
OTHER INTERESTING BOOKS.
Glass in Architecture and Decoration. By Ray-
mond McGrath and A. C. Frost. Handsome
volume profusely illustrated. £5/12/6.
Norman Lindsay's Watercolors. IS paintings
reproduced in original colors. 42/-.
Etty and the Nude. A record of the art and
life of William Etty, R.A. 1787-1849. Limited
edition with colored and other plates, £B/8/-.
The National Costumes of Holland. Fifty
studies reproduced by Lithography in full
colors from the originals. Size of volume 15
x 10i inches. One of the finest books of its
kind ever published. £5/15/6.
The Pocket Book of America. A unique col-
lection of American Short Stories, Poems,
Articles, etc. 5/9 (post. 2d.).
Douglas Annand. Drawings and paintings in
Australia. Edited by Sydney Ure Smith.
Fourteen plates in color and 77 other plates.
12/6 (post. 4d.).
Six Australian One-act Plays. 5/- (post. 2d.).
The Tyranny of Words. By Stuart Chase.
Fifth Edition. 12/6 (post. 4d.).
Shaw-Ede. T. E. Lawrence’s Letters to H. S.
Ede, 1927-1935. Limited edition. 84/-.
The Great Artists. Edited by various authors
and illustrated from official photographs. Size
7i x 4f inches. 3/- each (post. 2d.).
Fra Angelico, Corregio, Durer, Giotto, Man-
tegna and Francia, Raphael, Sir Joshua Rey-
nolds, Tintoretto, Turner, Velasquez.
ANGUS & ROBERTSON, LTD., 39
Street, Sydney.
When the specification calls for
STEE]
'mI SHEETS
• 9 • call
ARMCO
«
i*
liVherevee steel sheets of any kind
are required for your manufacturing pro-
gramme get in touch with Armco (Aust.)
Pty, Ltd. Whether you require Stainless
Steel, Deep Drawing Sheet Steel for all
types of pressings, Sheets for Electrical
Work, Bright Steel Strips, or Black Sheets,
you’ll find that Armco (Aust.) Pty. Ltd.
caters for all your needs.
STAINLESS STEEL
ELECTRICAL STEEL
DEEP DRAWING STEEL
(for pressings)
BRIGHT STEEL STRIP
BLACK SHEETS
3 a I VI 3 fl V 3NV!Sm 3 N !l fl O 9 1 3 N A3NQAS
a 3 i i m i 1 'Aid cviivaisnv) oowuv
4 03NUV
ALWAYS FRESH
ALWAYS SMOOTH
%
Keep buying and holding
War Savings Certificates.
CRAVEN "ft
10 for 1/1
20 for 2/2
%
m
am
m
4
i
M
55628
SERVICE DEPARTMENT.
Wants.
To buy Coles’s Funny Picture Book. —3506.
To, buy book on construction of “Flying
Flea* aeroplane.—3507.
To buy War and Peace (Tolstoy), collected
poems of Thomas Hardy and Laurence House-
man, any novels by Joseph Conrad and a book
on amateur pottery-making.—3508.
To buy a button accordion. —3509.
Information Sought.
Qualifications for award of the 1914 ( Mons )
Star ?
All officers and men of the British and
Indian Expeditionary Forces, including civilian
medical practitioners, nursing sisters, nurses
and others employed with military hospitals,
who actually served in France or Belgium on
the establishment of a unit between August 5,
1914, and midnight on November 22-23, 1914,
are eligible. Officers and men of the R.N.,
R.N.R., R.N.V.R. and Royal Marines who
served on the establishment, of a unit between
these dates are also eligible, but not those
who served afloat. The King later approved
the issue of a bar to those already awarded the
star who actually served under the fire of the
enemy in France or Belgium between the
dates mentioned.
I have some war bonds that I wish to give
to my children. Is any duty payable?
If the value of the gift, together with the
value of any other gifts made within the pre-
ceding 18 months, exceeds £500, duty is pay-
able, at a flat rate of 3 p.c. up to £10,000,
increasing thereafter with the increased aggre-
gate value of the gifts until the maximum rate
of 27.9 p.c. is reached.
Latest available figures of Victorian and JVest-
ralian gold production ?
In 1939 Victoria produced 156,522 fine ounces,
valued at £1,533,899, and W.A. 1,214,238 fine
ounces, valued at £11,796,085.
Some aboriginal names meaning “beautiful
view” ?
Omaroo, Bilbabowrie, Boongalla and Kootoo-
tonga.
Brief Answers.
P.E.S.: The Nangle Institute of Technology,
Macquarie-place, Sydney, conducts a course
in architecture by correspondence... .V.J.C.:
Subject too big for discussion here; details are
dealt with in H. M. Vernon’s The Alcohol
Problem F.W.: Reduction in lighting load
generally means a corresponding reduction of
load on the prime mover... .W.V.: Particulars
obtainable from Colonial Sugar Refining Co.
or Peters American Delicacy Co S.W.; The
“Q’land Agricultural Journal” for July, 1931, is
no longer available... .A.R.: (1) Apply (a) to
Army Inventions Directorate, 117 Pitt-street,
Sydney, and (h) to Patents Office, 3 Martin-
place, Sydney. (2) Helium is measured in cubic
feet; it has less lifting power than hydrogen.
M.D.: Communicate with N. M. Goddard,
67 Carabella-avenue, Kirribilli, ex-secretary of
the club L.M.: Reginald Denny never
appeared in Australia... .J.C.: Probably bred in
England T.J.R.: Skipton started at 8 to 1
in the 1941 Melbourne Cup, which he won
C.F.3.: Apply to Melbourne branch of the
W.0.1.
Answers to Correspondents.
Name and address must appear on the MS. No
liability is undertaken re contributions voluntarily
submitted; and no M.S. trill be returned unless
stamps accompany. MS. should be addressed to
the Editor,
R.L.0.: Hitler may well be a “loathsome
fest’ring core” but you shouldn’t rhyme it with
“law” C.A. “Unseen” is practically invis-
ible F.T.: Bumpy A.M.W.: All the girls
in Sydney aren’t “toads” J.C.H.: Un-
less one grotesquely mispronounces the foreign
words it’s pointless J.S.: “Am I wasting
paper?” Not if you get any fun out of it, but
you’re certainly wasting postage R.S.C.:
“The mystery of soundless sea and rocks so
drear Affected us.” It affected us, too
D.H.: To quote from the poem it’s modelled
on, “One more unfortunate” W.T.P.: Be-
gins with an echo of Burns and finishes like a
short-winded orator in the Domain
H.W.W.: “D-Day” is too short, too jingly, too
thin and several weeks too late D.F.J.: You
must subdue your tendency to say things such
as “Soul-warping lethargy we must subdue.”
A.C.P.: Appropriate sentiments in atrocious
verse E.R.: “Enclosed is something.” That
just about describes it... .R.S.H.: “Stewart
Highway” appears to need grading.


Keep ahead
of the weeds
•••F
mm.
■
m
mm
.Fv
*4
Cultivating 4 rows of beans with Farmall-H
with FARMALL-H and
MULTI-ROW CULTIVATORS
4) Vegetable growers Know that
timely cultivating, to kill fresh ger-
minating weeds and conserve mois-
ture, is vital to the successful develop-
ment of the crop . . . For large-scale
production, Farmall-H and the new,
McCormick - Deering Multi - row
Vegetable Cultivators with a wide
variety of ground-working tools,
assure increased field-working capaci-
ties, and high cultivating efficiency
which practically eliminates the tedi-
ous hand weeding and hoeing
methods of the past.
Four, ideal working speeds with
variable governor control enable, at
2 miles an hour, close working with-
out damage to young and tender
plants, and faster cultivating up to 5
m.p.h., when the plants are firmly
established . . . Ask your nearest
International Harvester Agent to tell
you more about this new multi-row
cultivating and weeding equipment,
and the complete system of
McCormick-Decring Power Equip-
ment for Vegetable Production.
See Your Nearest
INTERNATIONAL HARVESTER AGENT
827
INTERNATIONAL HARVESTER COMPANY OF AUSTRALIA PTY. LTD.
UN CORPORATE© IN VICTORIA!
BRISBANE SYDNEY MELBOURNE ADELAIDE PERTH
The “VENUS” 7-inch LATHE
STURDY
QUICK
ACCURATE
Built in Australia to
Schlesinger Standards
of Accuracy.
Manufactured by
Dynamically
Balanced
»0V«U :
A*
Sb
MAR*
MARS Machine Tool Manufacturing Co. Pty. Ltd.
BRIDGE STREET, VALLEY, BRISBANE
Sole Dist. Agents for N.S.W.: THOS. HERBERT & Co. Pty. Ltd., Clarence
St., Sydney; for Victoria: THOMPSON & WILLIAMS Pty. Ltd., 2S Market
St., Melbourne: Stockists: GOODALL & Co. Pty. Ltd., 301 Kent St., Sydney
The WILD
CAT
COLUMN
G. J. Coles & Co.
, Dividends ,
Pref. To Re- Re-
June, Profit. 8 p.c. Ord. serves, serves.
£ £ £ £ £
1934.109,777 12,000 10 p.c. = 70,860 26,917 180,866
Premiums on new shares, £22,500 .. 203,366
1935.146,445 12,000 12* p.c. = 89,700 44,745 248,111
Premiums on new shares, £9630 .. 257,741
Bonus scrip issued, £72,360 ( £54,000
from reserve against goodwill, not
treated as an asset herein) .. .. 185,381
1936.168,925 12,000 124 p.c. = 99,856 57,069 242,450
Share premiums, £192,230 .. .• 434,680
1937.240,028 12,000 18i p.c.=171,224 56,804 491,484
Bonus scrip issued, £97,840 .. .. 393,644
1938.261,408 12,000 174 p.c.=188,347 61,061 454,705
1939.274,704 12,000 18i „ „ 201,800 60,904 515,609
1940.278,047 12,000 174 „ „ 209,871 56,176 571,785
1941.230,182 12,000 174 „ „ 226,015 563,952
1942.241,610 12,000 124 ~ „ 151,440 68,170 632,122
A.R.P. provision, £17,600. . . . . . 614,522
1943.175,569 12,000 10 p.c.=129,152 34,417 648,939
1944.174,428 12,000 10 „ „ 129,152 33,276 682,215
All things considered, Coles’s has put up
a very satisfactory performance. In com-
mon with all other retailers, experience
of the big variety chains has been one of
restricted turnover, climbing costs and
impaired trading efficiency; this the out-
come of managed economy, prime aim of
which has been to curb civilian consump-
tion and liberate man-power and materials
for war purposes. However, Coles have
stabilised earnings at a very’ satisfactory
though lower level. Sales continued on
the up-grade until mid-1942, when clothes
rationing gave earnings a jolt—drapery
used to account for approximately one-
third of the co.’s turnover. Mobilisation
of women in the services, where stock-
ings, underwear, etc., are items of issue
didn’t help p. and 1, figures either. And
many cheap lines previously handled
disappeared from the market, owing to
the switch-over of manufacturers’ plant
to production for war purposes, while
exchange, shipping and import difficulties
affected the crockery, chinaware and
other sections of the business.
In an endeavor to maintain turnover
vacant counters were converted into fruit
and vegetable marts. But these and other
food lines served mainly to lighten the
incidence of overhead. At the same time
the taxgatherer demanded an increasing
share of takings, and costs kept on gather-
ing momentum under inflationary influ-
ences. Though the overall price ceiling
and other stabilisation measures steadied
the increase in the pressure of costs, they
didn’t altogether prevent costs from ris-
ing. Also, such fixed items of overhead
as leasehold rents, which figure largely in
Coles’s accounts, now take a bigger bite
out of lower gross earnings from reduced
turnover.
The contraction in turnover was over
£1,000,000 in 1943, and the co.’s net earn-
ings fell away by £66,041. Movement in
turnover last term isn’t disclosed in the
published accounts. Appearances are that
sales approximated the previous year’s
level. After dropping £25,429 into free-
hold depreciation reserve (£248,986),
making an unspecified allowance for taxa-
tion, striking off £90,465 (down £14,116)
for depreciation, and sending £10,335 (up
£1355) to the staff fund, the board figured
net takings at £148,999, or £1143 short
of the 1943 figure. Taking the addition to
reserves into the reckoning, the net result
was £174,428 (down £1141). * That was
sufficient to pay the pref. div. and show
12.5 p.c. on the £1,291,515 of ord. capital
as against 12.6, 17,7, 16.9, 22,1 and 24.4
p.c. back to 1939. The div., which
dropped from 18| p.c. in 1939 to 17-| p.c.
for the next two years, followed by
p.c. and then 10 p.c., was kept at the
lower figure—it was the rate paid during
the four difficult slump years 1931-34.
Finances are comfortable :
1939. 1941. 1943. 1944.
Capital— £ £ £ £
Ord. . . 1,094,528 1,291,515 1,291,515 1,291,515
Pref. . . ' 150,000 150,000 150,000 150,000
Overdraft .. 161,273 11,212
Creditors .. 116,565 139,495 94,796 91,017
Mortgages, etc. 197,000 182,000 182,000 182,000
Employees’
funds . . 37,585 40,566 34,797 24,243
Tax reserve.. 91,057 164,829 146,433 145,218
Freeholds . . 1,085,506 1,216,581 1,230,851 1,226,991
Leaseholds... 252,917 294,563 285,770 209,088
Fittings, etc. 378,405 461,810 879,581 345,303
Stocks .. 532,514 854,918 755,701 766,435
Debtors . . 10,875 12,537 20,470 14,655
Cash, etc. . . 69,208 33,905 14,811 81,228
The year’s surplus earnings, together with
allowance for depreciation, etc., enabled
£66,417 to be added to cash, etc., and
£10,734 to stocks. The improvement in
the more or less liquid surplus (£419,840,
including stocks) was £98,096.
One of the management’s biggest prob-
lems has been getting goods to sell. In
many lines a whole month’s quota could
be sold out in a day or two. This has
slowed down the rate of pre-war turn-
over, and, together with rising prices and
costs, imposed changes on the methods
and policy of the business, such as de-
parture from the upper-price level of 2s.
6d., which had been adhered to since the
co. first set up in 1921. However, the co.
has maintained its financial and organisa-
tional strength, and demonstrated its
adaptability to circumstance. This and
the commodity hunger that remains to
be satisfied when restrictions are progres-
sively removed and a more generous flow
of goods becomes practicable, augurs well
for the future of the business, subject, of
course, to Government interference.
Perpetual Trustee Co- (Sydney)
Net Dividends. Written To Re-
June, Profit. 8 p.c. Off, Etc. serves. Reserves.
£ £ £ £ £
1934 .. 24,947 16,000 3000 5,947 243,207
1935 . . 25,842 16,000 5000 4,842 248,049
104 p.c.
1936 . . 29,212 21,000 4000 • 4,212 252,261
Staff ins. reserve taken in, £10,000.. 262,261
10 p.c.
1937 .. 27,021 20,000 5000 2,021 264,282
1938 . . 28,400 20,000 5000 3,400 267,682
1939 . . 31,419 20,000 5000 6,419 274,101
1940 . . 29,125 20,000 4000 5,126 279,226
1941 . . 26,818 20,000 2500 4,318 283,544
1942 . . 24,141 20,000 2500 1,641 285,183
1943 . . 25,940 20,000 2500 3,440 288,625
1944,.. 26,612 20,000 2500 4,112 292,737
For many years the trustee cos. had a
hard struggle against prejudice. Then,
as the advantages of the public over the
private trustee became apparent, more
business came their way, and still more
has been driven into their expert care by
the bewildering tangle of legal, financial
and war-time controls. Now, the tussle
is mainly against costs. With their mod-
erate corpus and commission charges
anchored by legislation, the cos. have
been unable to pass on increases in tax,
wage and other cost-inflating factors, all
of which have been substantial since
war began. At the same time financial
controls have forced down interest rates
and kept rents low. This has meant only
moderate returns to trustee cos. from in-
vestment of their own funds, which are
represented for the most part by Gov-
ernment securities, rent-producing free-
hold and mortgages. Controls have also
retarded the realisation of estates and
affected values, and therefore corpus and
other commission earnings.
So, despite steady expansion of the vol-
ume of its trust business, gross earnings
of the Perpetual, which is the largest thing
of its kind in Australia, contracted at an
average rate of £2797 p.a. over the four
years to the close of last accounts. For
the four immediately preceding years
gross earnings expanded at the average
rate of £9485 p.c. Here are the figures:
Year Exes.
Ended Gross Ex- . p.c. of
June, Trusts. Income. penses. Income.
1911 ..£8,853,862 £27,895 £16,850 60.4
1921 .. 18,432,862 77,404 55,261 71.4
1931 .. 41,152.590 143.665 120,141 83.6
1932 .. 42,364,572 127,070 110,115 86.6
1936 . . 49,843,142 150,994 125,983 83.4
1938 . . 54,068,638 168,225 143,019 85.0
1939 57,144,759 178,385 152,299 85.3
1940 .. 57,081,014 188,937 163,500 86.5
1941 . . 59,862,240 186,528 161,917 86.8
1942 . . 60,345,430 182.681 160,013 87.6
1943 .. 61,594,366 173,749 150,769 86.7
1944 . . 62,808,975 177,749 154,614 86.9
Last term the value of trusts put on
the books exceeded those wound up by
£1,209,609. The downward trend of gross
earnings was arrested, and an improve-
ment of £4OOO showed up. Exes, took
£3845 of the increase. After deducting
£2500 sent to the staff fund, shown as
written off in the introductory table, but
including an addition of £3477 to commis-
sion-reserved account—it comprises the
unearned portion of corpus commissions
—the surplus available for distribution
(£24,112) was £672 better at 12 p.c. on the
£200,000 of paid capital as against 11.7,
10.8, 12.1, 12.5 and 13.2 back to 1939.
The div. was kept at 10 p.c., and apart
from Government interference, there is
nothing in sight at the moment to suggest
that it is likely to be interrupted. With
reserves heaped £92,737 higher than paid
capital the two combined need turn in
only a wink over 4 p.c. to show 10 p.c.
on capital alone. Appearances are that
the growth in costs over which the man-
agement has no control has left little
profit in trustee business these days.
When the books closed freehold, etc.,
stood at £115,304, Government securities
£232,265, cash £103,279, mortgages, etc.,
£106,291, debtors £2856, including an
unspecified provision for taxation, the
amount coming to outsiders was £57,259.
The £200,000 of capital is in 10,000
shares of £lO paid to £2 each. Of the
balance £5 is callable only in the event of
liquidation.
Cascade Brewery Co., Ltd. (Hobart)
To Re-
June, Profit. Dividends. serves. Reserve*.
£ £ £ £
1934.. 17,607 7 p.c. = 14,000 3,607 99,252
Bonus equalisation reserve, £4020.. 103,272
1935.. 18,849 8 p.c. = 16,000 2,849 106,121
1936.. 25,788 10 „ „ 20,0 0 0 5,788 111,909
1937.. 29,297 Hi ~ 22,500 ) g m 117106
Written off freeholds, £l6OO )
1938.. 31,468 12 p.c. = 25,750 ) j 912 ngnig
Written off freeholds, £3806 t ’
1939.. 81,283 12 p.c. = 27,000 ) . 900 91 o
Written off hotels, £2383 ) ’
1940.. 29,721 12 p.c. = 27,00 0 2,721 123,639
1941.. 28,238 12 „ „ 27,000 ) _ gl7
Written off hotels, £2060 y
!942.. 30,768 12 p.c. = 27.000 ) 124)085
Written off hotels, £2500 3 *
1943.. 36,145 12 p.o. = 27,000 ) 2 g 45 12 7,030
Written off hotels, £6200 t ’
1944.. 39,367 12 p.c. = 27,000 ) s n fi7 135997
Written off hotels, £3400 ) ’’ ’
Actual beer-making is in the hands of
Tasmanian Breweries Pty., in which Cas-
cade and J. Boag and Son merged this
part of their activities on a 50-50 basis
as far back as 1922. The board is tight-
lipped about earnings and distributions
of the brewing co., which had a bad spin
until 1933. Cascade itself concentrates
on dispensing the brew through its hotels
and on manufacturing cordials and cider;
and the soft stuff has responded nicely to
the capital outlay incurred in connection
therewith a few years ago.
Restrictions imposed on both local and
inter-State trade by rationing and other
war-time controls, and the dislocation of
tourist traffic, slowed down earnings for
the first two war years; but the figures
have stepped along nicely since. While
primary producers have had the benefit
of Government-supported prices, indus-
trial prosperity stepped up with estab-
lishment of new industries like paper-
making and war-time activity in old ones,
notably metal-mining and -manufacture
and food processing. Along these natural
lines, factory and other employment has
expanded. Another factor operating in
an unexpected manner has been the em-
bargo on inter-State freighting of ale and
stout. Although Tasmanian Breweries
lost its mainland trade it stepped into
former connections of Victorian brewers
in the flourishing north of the island. With
army demand and a flow of visiting
officialdom tossed in, Cascade over the
last three years has succeeded in gather-
ing more on the swings than it lost on
the roundabouts.
For the 12 months covered by the latest
accounts gross earnings from all sources
(£80,116) were £1472 lighter. But exes.
(£40,384, including provision for taxation)
were pulled back £4322. Allowing for
reserve movements and £3400 (£6200 in
previous term) struck off hotel freeholds
in addition to ordinary depreciation, the
net result (£35,967, up £6022) was 15.9 p.c.
on capital as against 13.3, 12.5 and 11.6
p.c. for the three preceding years. The
div. was kept at 12 p.c. for the seventh
successive occasion.
Here are balance-sheet figures;
1940. 1942. 1943. 1944.
Paid capital.. £225,000 £225.000 £225,000 £225,000
Mortgages and
deposits .. 161,979 156,758 134,775 128,012
Other liabilities 5,274 7,989 5,575 7,349
Tax reserve .. 19,842 20,000 18,500
Hotels, etc. .. 306,398 816,248 310,066 307,016
Plant, etc. . . 95,500 98,551 93,478 88,963
Stock.. .. 17,568 25,462 24,281 18,258
Book debts, etc. 38,643 42,029 31,967 47,141
Cash, etc. . . 14,170 238 1,442 2,326
Shares other cos. 64,646 64,646 64,646 64,646
When the books closed the outside debt


Agents
£17/10/- STBS*
DUPLICATOR
has all the finest features of high-priced
imported machines at only a fraction of
their cost. The "National" Rotary Dupli-
cator will reproduce Typing, Writing.
Plans, Music, etc.
6«Wt mtifely tn Australia by SEND FOR ILLUSTRATED LITERATURE.
JACKSON & O’SULLIVAN Pty. Ltd.
r --m'.- , SYDNEY AND BRISBANE
STOPvoupßupture
Worries/
Mark ® loeaHon
of YOUR RUPTURE
Try the new Roussel
Appliance Free. En-
ables you to do hard
work with comfort and
security. Definitely
bolds, a condition ab-
solutely necessary for
Improvement or recov-
ery. Recommended by
Doctors. Satisfaction
guaranteed no matter
where you live. Send for details, self-
measurement form, testimonials and 14 days’
free trial offer. No obligation.
THE ROUSSEL, APPLIANCE CO.,
(Dept. 27), 9 Martin Place, Sydney.
\
m
\or
VC&
?N
*NEW prices
l6/5
Diploma, 18/11
Autoflow, 26/3
14-earat Gold Nibs
p.
ECZEMA
2 ENSITIVE PEOPLE feel eczema acutely.
The continued irritation, the unsightly erup-
tions and the uncertainty where the trouble
will next spread make them feel almost
ashamed.
Eczema is not due to dirt, but to the fact that
certain skins react badly to various forms of irrita-
tion (internal or external), and poor general health
increases the liability.
Since there is a great tendency for eczema to spread
and to become chronic, early local treatment is
imperative, and the best salve for this purpose is
DOAN’S Ointment. It penetrates to the true skin
where the inflammation lies, is antiseptic and healing
and quickly allays the irritation. DOAN’S Ointment
is also good for other itching skin complaints and
for the relief'of piles. Buy a tin to-day, but be sure
you get DOAN’S.
DoansOiniment
Griffith, Hassel and Griffith, Patent Attorneys,
Asbestos House, Cr. York and Barrack Streets, Sydney,
obtain Commonwealth and foreign patents. — Advt.
* * * *
DAVIES & COLLISON, Patent Attorneys, Collins
House, 360 Collins Street, Melbourne, C.l. Austra-
lian and overseas Patents and Trade Marks.— Advt.
Public Notices. _____
I, ARNOLD ARAM, Stateless, born at Berlin, Ger-
many, and resident five and a half years in Australia,
now residing at 14a Manning Road, Double Bay,
N.S.W., intend to apply for naturalisation under the
Nationality Act 1920-1936.
I, VINCENZO MAESTRI, of Italian nationality, born
at Calcinato, province of Brescia, Italy, and resident
13 years in Australia, now residing at 40 Hopewell
Street, Paddington, N.S.W., intend to apply for
naturalisation under the Nationality Act 1920-1936.
I, ALBERT FOULKES, Stateless, born at Karlsruhe,
Germany, and resident five years in Australia, now
residing at 4 Vicar Street, Coogee, N.S.W., intend to
apply for naturalisation under the Nationality Act
1920-1936.
I, PAUL FOULKES, Stateless, born at Mannheim,
Germany, and resident five years in Australia, now
residing' at 4 Vicar Street, Coogee, N.S.W., intend to
apply for naturalisation under the Nationality Act
1920-1936.
THAT'
lH E *
HAVE YOU
CONSIDERED
THIS CODICIL
By adding a simple codicil to your Will you can guard against difficulties
and loss which might arise should your Executor die or become incapacitated.
By means of such a codicil you can name Bums Philp Trust Co. Ltd. as joint
Executor with your present appointee or, if you wish, as sole Executor,
In this way you gain positive assurance of continuous and sound administration
and are relieved of a serious anxiety. The Company will willingly forward
full particulars. ,
DIRECTORS— James Burns - Robert John Nosworthy - Lewis Armstrong - Joseph Mitchell
Manager—C. H. Chester
BURNS PHILP TRUST
COMPANY LIMITED
7 BRIDGE STREET. SYDNEY
PHONE: B 7901.
Box 543 B, G.P.0., Sydney.
BP 9-44.
Commonwealth Bank of Eustralla
BALANCE SHEET as at BOth June, 1944.
Special War-time Deposits
by Banks .. ..184,976,900 0 0
Deposits, Accrued Interest
and Rebate, Bills Payable
and Other Liabilities .. 214,123,908 7 1
£411,063,297 16 7
Contingent Inabilities :
Outstanding Credits per _ _
Contra .. 1,231,865 5 7
£412,295,163 2 2
Note Issue Department ..199,536,045 1 5
£611,831,208 3 7
ASSETS
Coin, Bullion, and Cash
Balances . . .. . . 10,
Australian Notes .. 2,
Money at Short Call in
London .. .. ..119,
Commonwealth Government
Securities (including
Treasury Bills) . .223
Other Government, semi-
Governmental and Muni-
cipal Securities
Bills Receivable in London
and Remittances in
Transit .. .. .. 13
Bills Discounted, Loans
and Advances to Cus-
tomers and Other Assets 35
Mortgage Bank Loans ..
Bank Premises
Profit and Loss Mortgage
Bank Department
s. d
591,580 13 6
299,383 10 0
466.644 2 1
,348,548 5 5
549,291 2 5
,047,336 13 8
,445,592 5 11
681,629 6 7
623,106 16 8
13,186 0 4
£411,063,297 16 7
Liabilities of Customers and
Others on Letters of Credit
per Contra .. . ■ 1,231,865 5 7
£412,295,163 2 2
Note Issue Department ..199,536,045 1 5
£611.831,208 3 7
PROFIT AND LOSS FOR YEAR ENDED 30th
JUNE, 1944
£ s. d.
General Bank Department-
To National Debt Sinking
Fund .. .. 492,551 17 6
„ Reserve Fund .. 246,275 IS 9
Mortgage Bank Depart-
ment Capital Account 246,275 18 9
Rural Credits Department :
To Reserve Fund .. 18,913 10 8
„ Development Fund 18,913 10 8
Note Issue Department :
To Commonwealth Trea-
sury .. .. 2,628,970 17 8
„ Mortgage Bank De-
partment Capital
Account .. .. 114,144 0 0
£3,766,045 14 0
Mortgage Bank Department :
To Loss —From inception
27/9/43 to 30/6/44 £13,186 0 4
By Profits for year ended
30th June, 1944 :
General Bank Depart-
ment
Rural Credits Depart-
ment
Note Issue Department
£ s. d.
985,103 15 0
37,827 1 4
2,743,114 17 8
£3.766,045 14 0
Mortgage Bank Department ;
By Balance carried for-
ward to next year .. £13,186 0 4
We certify that the above Balance Sheet,'!
compiled from Statements furnished by the 1
several Offices of the Bank, is true and correct >
E. B. RICHARDSON, Secretary.
G. F. DICKINSON, Chief Accountant. J
For and on behalf of the Board.
H. T. ARMITAGE, Governor.
Sydney, 11th August, 1944.
NOTE ISSUE DEPARTMENT
BALANCE SHEET as at 30th June, 1944.
LIABILITIES £ s. d.
Notes in Circulation .. 190,993,625 10 0
Reserve for Notes not Pre-
sented .. .. .. 159,801 0 0
Special Reserve —Premium
on Gold Sold .. .. 6,754,954 10 4
Other Liabilities .. .. 1,627,664 1 1
£199,536,045 1 5
ASSETS £sTd,
Gold and English Sterling
Reserve .. ~
49,293,850
0 4
Debentures and
Securities
Other Assets
Other
..150,101,346 18 4
140,848 2 9
Certified Correct.
BERTRAND LATHAM, Secretary, Note
Issue Department.
G. F. DICKINSON, Chief Accountant.
For and on behalf of the Board.
H. T. ARMITAGE, Governor.
Sydney, 11th August, 1944.
Commonwealth Savings Bank of Hustralla
BALANCE SHEET as at 30th June, 1944.
LIABILITIES £ s. d.
Reserve Fund .. .. 3,723,737 14 1
Depositors’ Balances and
Accrued Interest ..300,286,764 15 1
Contingency Account and
Other Liabilities .. 9,235,197 11 3
£313,245,700 0 5
ASSETS £ s. d.
Coin. Cash Balances and
Money at Short Call .. 40,261.061 3 8
Australian Notes .. 418,150 10 0
Commonwealth Government
Securities .. ..233,824,259 6 7
Other Government, semi-
Governmental and Muni-
cipal Securities .. .. 33,695,202 8 8
Other Assets .. . . 4,437,594 6 6
Bank Premises .. .. 609,432 5 5
£313,245,700 0 5
PROFIT AND LOSS FOR
YEAR ENDED 30th JUNE, 1944
Cr.
To National Debt Sinking
Fund ..
„ Savings Bank Reserve
Fund ..
£ s. d.
249.391 5 7
249.391 5 7
£498,782 11 2
By Profits for year ended £ s. d.
30th June, 1944, after
provision for payments
amounting to £350,151
14s. sd. due to State
Authorities under Sav-
ings Bank Amalgama-
tion Agreements .. 498,782 11 2
We certify that the above Balance Sheet,
compiled from Statements furnished by the
several Offices of the Bank, is true and correct
E. B. RICHARDSON, Secretary.
G. F. DICKINSON, Chief Accountant.
For and on behalf of the Board.
H. T. ARMITAGE, Governor.
Sydney, 11th August, 1944.
Certificates as to the correctness of these Accounts have been given by the Auditor-General
for the Commonwealth (Mr. R. Abercrombie).
If any illustration in “THE BULLETIN” takes your fancy, write
to the MANAGER, who will quote you price for the original.
exceeded more or less liquids by £21,484,
an improvement of £16,530 over the
twelvemonth. Mortgages and deposits
include £86,983 coming to the A.M.P.
Society, repayable by half-yearly instal-
ments over the next 19 years.
As for the future, a £3,000,000 alu-
minium project, to be financed by the
Commonwealth Government, is to be es-
tablished in the island, thanks to its cheap
hydro-electric power, and the zinc and
paper industries are awaiting only the
end of hostilities to make further large
permanent additions to their industrial
equipment, and therefore payrolls.
Early this*year Queensland’s chief Gov-
ernment geologist, L. C. Ball, had a look
at the copi deposits near the old Cork
homestead on the Diamantina. Copi is
the local term for gypsum. Nearly every-
where, he says, the percentage is below
any possible commercial requirements.
Occasionally there has been some surface
accumulation in sheets where soil erosion
has been active. In places the sheets are
thinly laminated, and the mineral has
been mistaken by many for mica. Mica
differs in being a silicate and in having
a perfect basal clevage, permitting of
stripping into thin and highly flexible
sheets, whereas copi is comparatively
brittle. Mica is heat resistant, while copi
at a comparatively low temperature gives
off its water of crystallisation and
crumbles to a white powder (plaster of
Paris).
* * * *
The gypsum occurrence about five
miles north of Jericho (Q.) is of no com-
mercial importance. Government geolo-
gist Ridgway, who examined the area,
failed to find a bed of the stuff. Under
3ft. to 4ft. of black soil he did find brown
clay 3ft. thick containing a low percen-
tage of crystalline nodular gypsum, over-
laying a white clayed sandstone. Gypsum
beds result from the evaporation of salt-
bearing inland lakes, etc. The crystalline
nodular gypsum found in the area re-
ferred to is the result of solvent action
of surface waters on gypseous beds, and
subsequent recrystallisation of the mineral
in joints and cracks in the clay.
* * * *
S. Aus. Department of Mines is mak-
ing a detailed investigation, by diamond-
drilling and otherwise, of the extent and
nature of what looks like promising talc
deposits in the Gumeracha district and at
Tumby Bay. Talc is used in the rubber,
paper, paint, ceramic and cosmetic indus-
tries and for foundry purposes. Since
severance of trade relations with Italy
and cessation of the importation of
Indian talc, S. Aus. has supplied Austra-
lian requirements of the stuff. The present
method of mining is mainly hand selec-
tion and bagging at the surface, which
has not given entirely satisfactory results.
The S. Aus. Government desires to bring
about more uniformity in the grades and
quality of the State’s talc product by im-
provement in mining methods and grind-
ing processes, and by a fuller apprecia-
tion of the requirements of customers.
Some of the problems are being investi-
gated by the Bonython Laboratory, which
is also examining the possibilities of flota-
tion as a means of talc purification.
* * * *
From London: At the annual roll-up
of shareholders in Golden Horse Shoe
(W.A.), chairman Frederick Hamilton
said joint working profit of the co. and
Gt. Boulder from re-treatment during the
year of 449,500 tons of old Boulder tail-
ings was £26,480 stg. (down £16,000-
odd). Horse Shoe’s share was £13,240;
in addition divs., etc., aggregated £1403,
and credit was taken for £7500 excess-
profit tax expected to be recovered, mak-
ing gross income from all sources £22,143.
After deducting exes., allowing £l5OO for
depreciation and making provision for
income tax, £7lBl net profit remained.
The addition of £BBB brought in gave an
available balance of £8069. A 3d. div, took
£7477. Throughput was approx. 37,000
tons less than the previous year’s, due
partly to hardness of stuff treated and
partly to inexperienced operators. Earn-
ings were also affected by a decline in
the grade of tailings treated.
* ♦ * *
The probable importance of India as
a factor in world trade post-war and pos-
sible industrialisation of the country
direct attention to its coal and iron
deposits. According to Charles H. Behre,
Professor of Geology at Columbia Uni-
versity (U.S.A.), the most important single
industrial mineral resource in India is
coal. The grade varies from low to high,
and from lignite to anthracite. The largest
fields are those in the Bihar-Orissa area,
estimated to contain about 10,150 million
tons of “good-grade” coal. To the south-
west of this area are the coalfields of the
Godavri valley, continuing through
Hyderabad and Madras almost to the sea
at Cocanada, and containing some 6400
million tons high-grade coal. As for iron,
large deposits of commercial-grade ore
also occur in the Bihar-Orissa area. In
the Singhbhum district alone estimated
ore reserves are put at 1047 million tons,
averaging about 50 p.c, iron. Extensive
iron-ore deposits are also being worked
in Mysore. Bauxite and manganese de-
posits also occur in the Bihar-Orissa area.
* * * *
“O.B.”: An innovation in the form of
grid diamond-drilling has proved suc-
cessful in the prospecting for gold on
the Orange Free State’s new field. This
technique is well known in base-metal
mining, and was used to define the
enormous copper deposits in Northern
Rhodesia.


'/A
/a
7&A
« m
** A
-1 <
‘Sv#
WE LL BE MOVING SOON !
“It’s a good ’ole this—the best we’ve struck. You
see that’s a sheet of SISALKRAFT that is on top
there, one we pinched from the quarter-bloke. Keeps
us and our ‘ammo’ snug and dry—believe me, this
SISALKRAFT can take it.
“But we’ll be moving soon—back to good old
Aussie and civvy life, and the homes we’re going
to build. Take it from us, wherever we build ’em
SISALKRAFT will be there to keep our walls and
ceilings rainproof and windproof.”
ym
tm.
&
St
SISALKRAFT is the most
waterproof, weatherproof
material of its type for roof
sarking and wall linings. Specify
it—insist upon it—for the pro-
tection of your post-war home.
J \JA LKR4 FT
N.S.W.: F. W. Williams & Co. Pty., Limited, 16 Loftus Street, Sydney.
VICTORIA: Sisalkraft Distributors Co. Pty., Ltd., 24 Bond Street, Melbourne, C.l.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA: Henry Berry & Co. Aust., Ltd., op. G.P.0., Adelaide.
AVESTERN AUSTRALIA: Henry Berry & Co. Aust., Ltd., 625 Wellington Street, Perth.
QUEENSLAND: Henry Berry & Co. Aust., Ltd., 383-391 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
TASMANIA; William Crosby & Co. Pty., Ltd., 32 Charles Street, Launceston.
William Crosby & Co. Pty . Ltd., 119 Collins Street, Hobart.
NEW'ZEALAND; AV. H. Huthnance & Co., Nathan’s Buildings, Grey Street, AVellington.
AV. H. Huthnance & Co., Savoy Buildings, Moray Place, Dunedin.
P. Heath-Preest & Co., Palmerston Building, 47 Queen Street,
Auckland.
WOLFE’S
ezzfhromdtub
SCHNAPPS
Agents:
M. MOSS & CO. PTY., LTD.,
SYDNEY.
Speed the'Victory BUY VICTORY BONDS
Business,Rollery,Etc.
Getting Back to Business
Rather than a rejection of the idea of
Constitutional reform, it may be taken
that the “No” majority in the referendum
voting was the turning-down of any
attempt at economic revolution. The
people were plainly hostile towards post-
war regimentation, and afraid also of all
that was implied in the term “national
planning.” When given a chance to vote
on non-party lines, the public responded
with a straight answer to the catchcries of
ambitious minorities, even though, because
of the undoubted Constitutional disabili-
ties of this country, they were reluctant to
vote at all on a conglomeration of 14
good, bad and indifferent points.
From the utterances of Mr. Chifley, as
Minister' for Post-war Reconstruction,
and from those of his principal execu-
tives, Drs. Coombs and Ross —all three
were in the forefront as champions of the
referendum—it seems that the Depart-
ment of Post-war Reconstruction has
been standing on the wrong foot in mak-
ing its plans for Australian industry after
the war. In recognition of the people’s
voice—and in simple acknowledgment of
its own legal deficiencies —the department
will have to review its plans and place
private enterprise in a key position. It
may be necessary to change its advisers.
Similar readjustments of outlook will need
to be made in the Treasury and in the De-
partment of War Organisation of Indus-
try. Both these Administrations have had
socialistic ideas in their war-time arrange-
ments.
The Bulletin has said more than once
that the Australian Government, in jour-
neying halfway along the road to social-
ism, has got a great deal further along
the road to nowhere. We have wasted
precious time and money. Where depart-
mental decisions affecting private enter-
prise have been made with the idea that
in the post-war period the businesses
affected will be largely under Government
control, there have often been heavy dis-
abilities placed upon industry. Coal and
shipping have slipped back heavily; effi-
ciency has been impaired and costs have
increased greatly. Private enterprise will
inherit a legacy of Government appease-
ment of militant unionism that will be
hard to deal with in the competi-
tive conditions arriving with the peace.
In much Government war-time adminis-
tration and post-war planning there has
been a suggestion that private industry
is something alien to the Australian atmo-
sphere, Mr. Curtin’s expression, “the
Capitalist wolf and Labor lambs,” sums
it up.
So far as it is capable of assisting
private enterprise to re-employ service-
men and munition workers in peace-time
industry, the Commonwealth Government
should get moving now on post-war plans.
It should seek the advice of industry and
dispense with that of the doctrinaire.
One of its functions will be that of con-
sidering what public works are necessary
when the war ends and men, money and
materials are available. The National
Works Council has already entered the
picture here, and the Commonwealth Bank
and the Loan Council are involved. Finan-
cial policy and interest rates will also be
matters for consideration, though perhaps
more a matter for the central bank’s
deliberation than for the Ministry. But,
though the Government lost the referen-
dum, it still has control of both the Reps,
and the Senate, and it is therefore more
in a position to alter the policy of the
Commonwealth Bank than has hitherto
been the case. The referendum is not
likely to change the demands of the radi-
cals for a “free” financial policy and
greater control of the private banks.
Actually the problem at present is to
counter a too-“free” financial policy fol-
lowed by the Government during this war
and which has led to serious inflation.
In spite of the rejection of the referen-
dum, the Commonwealth will need to
seek whatever co-operation it can get
from the States in enforcing price control
for at least 12 months after the end of
the war. If the war with Japan con-
tinues for some time after the defeat of
Germany it is possible that the Common-
wealth will have most of the authority
over prices that is necessary through the
National Security Act, The defeat of
Germany should reduce the strain on all
the Allied Nations, including Australia,
and, if the job is properly handled, there
could be a tapering-off of military pro-
Auction in Allied countries and a start
made on peace-time problems before the
final defeat of Japan.
Wedded to the idea of using its muni-
tion factories for political purposes, such
a tapering-off, however practicable, was
unlikely to be found in the plans of the
pre-referendum Curtin Government, It
appeared to resent the restoration of
vigorous life to private industries. But if
private enterprise is handed back the
opportunity of re-establishing its good-
will with the civilian consumer in antici-
pation of the post-war revival of world-
wide competition, within six months of
the end of the war production of civilian
goods, and plans for still greater produc-
tion, might do much to restrain an infla-
tion of prices resulting from shortage of
goods available for civilians.
That there will be an inflation of prices
resulting from the country’s war-time
financial expedients there can be little
doubt. Price control cannot for ever
look after monetary inflation. But a well-
planned return to civil production at the
earliest moment possible in conformity
with our war-time obligation to Allied
countries should help a great deal to
counter that inflation which arises from
the demand for goods greatly exceeding
the supply. If the prices of food and
clothing can be kept down for a year,
and supplies for civilians brought back
to something like normal in that time,
“controls” will have achieved as much as
they are likely to achieve. Government
home-building is not likely to keep hous-
ing costs down, and these costs will be
a problem of their own.
If public talk meant anything, the Gov-
ernment, prior to the referendum, aimed
to maintain full employment in the Com-
monwealth per medium of legislative and
departmental measures. The Ministry
asked for the alterations to the Constitu-
tion in order to “prevent depressions”!
Such an outlook was quite out of touch
with realities. That artificial controls
achieved a great deal in a war-time
economy ,is admitted. But to imagine
that war-time emergency powers can do
more than serve in an emergency is to
believe that economic actions can be pre-
vented indefinitely from having their in-
evitable reactions.
We must acknowledge that we have had
a great deal of inflation, and endeavor to
prevent further monetary and costs infla-
tion. Much of our manufacturing plant
is run down, and depreciation and obso-
lescence have been the hardest ever dur-
ing the last five years. Taxation policy
has been a factor in curbing the incen-
tive to work, to make new ventures and
to take business risks, while company
taxation in particular needs overhauling,
especially so far as it involves double
taxation. Before the war is finished it
will be in the interests of the country to
give consideration to the need for special
plant-depreciation rebates in taxation
assessments. Already this has been done
in some cases of war-time expenditure on
munition-making plant, but it will need
to be extended to all plant overworked in
the interest of the war effort where price
control has prevented the building-up of
reserves for the purpose out of profits.
The sooner the materials and labor
position will permit the dropping of war-
time specifications in the manufacture of
civilian products the better it will be for
the prospects of our manufacturing in-
dustry. Standard cloth, for instance,
made in woollen mills for men’s and
women’s suitings, is shunned by the
people even in the present scarcity of
clothing; and it has always been doubt-
ful whether this single-weft product saved
either man-power or material. The “aus-
terity suit” should also go ; and there are
hundreds of other obstructions and regu-
lations imposed on industry by the De-
partment of War Organisation of Indus-
try which should be reviewed as soon as
possible. In short, the Australian manu-
facturer will need to “get his hand in”
making attractive products soon after
the end of the war. The return of good
products to the civilian market will have
a healthy influence on internal living
standards and perhaps on our external
trade position. While it is not the expec-
tation of Australia to become a big ex-
porter of manufactured goods with the
ending of the war, our products should
be sufficiently competitive in the local
market at least to discourage imports
from coming in on a scale that threatened
to upset our trade balance.
The present Government and some of
its unionised adherents have made it im-
possible to forget politics and doctrines
during this war. To some people it
seemed that the business of the Curtin
Government was chiefly politics at the
most critical stages of the conflict. At now
seen most prominently in the coal indus-
try and in the national finances, the results
have been bitter for Australia. It may be
that the slogan “business as usual” was
the wrong one to have adopted during the
“phony” period of the war, and cer-
tainly out of place later. But with the
ending of the war this country will really
have to get down to business and be
granted freedom from political obstruc-
tion in order to go on with the repatria-
tion and rehabilitation of many of its
citizens.
It appears that (taking into account an
alteration in the presentation of the
figures) last year the Commonwealth Sav-
ings Bank took up over £BO million of
the war loans offered to the “public.” At
June 30 its holding, of “Commonwealth
Government securities” was £233.8 mil-
lion, compared with £154 million of
“Government securities” at the end of the
preceding year.
* * * *
Lord McGowan, in . a statement to
shareholders in Imperial Chemical Indus-
tries (Britain), said:
So long as expansion in trade and employ-
ment is the test which determines the shape of
the national Budget, the form of industrial
taxation, the scope and duration of controls in
industry, the line of action in the international
currency and investment field and the breadth
of commercial policy, labor can look forward
with confidence to high employment and industry
to full activity.
Our future standard of living will be
largely dependent upon the energy of our
poeple, our technical development and an ex-
pansion of our export trade. Without more
exports we shall not secure essential imports
of foodstuffs and raw materials. Our success
will rest upon the relation between the wage
level and the level of productivity emerging
from our men and machines. The high stan-
dard of craftsmanship and work of our people
must be matched by ability and skill in man-
agement. We cannot claim that productivity
is as high in the United Kingdom as in the
United States. Our workers must be armed
with more capital instruments per head, of a
technical standard equal to that to be found
anywhere else. No one can guarantee our
security; we must create it by our own per-
formance. Enterprise and risk are both essen-
tial and inseparable
The concern of the State in industrial organi-
sation will tend to increase, and I for one will
welcome it, so long as it takes the form of help
and guidance, and stops short of stifling the
energy, progress, speed and achievement of
private enterprise.
All these remarks seem to cut through
the idea that living standards can be im-
proved in Britain or this country by in-
troducing a six-hour day, by refraining
from mechanising coalmines to suit strik-
ing miners or by handing private enter-
prise over to Governments.


MANSEASE
the perfect comfort male
support for everyman’s
everyday wear.
All men s-ivear shops
and chemists .
Your Dog
BARKO
CONDITION POWDERS
PRICE 1/6 AT ALL CHEMISTS
For the third time in seventy years the Germans have brought death and destruction to Europe. Our
troops, armed with the guns we bought with our bonds, saved our towns from this fate.
m
m
tmm
mm
mm
mm.
m
wm
»m* <■ z.^
MSSagS
.- :••• ■.■■-
Our troops today are not the half-armed men of
Singapore —of Greece —of Crete. They are tri-
umphant men smashing their way rapidly towards
victory with weapons that we have procured for
them.
mmmm
I
mmmmm
:;: : ;:; : : ; x?w^i; : : : ; :
-■ ■•■ ' -■
Guns like these, backed up by Australian-invented
Owen guns, and the specially designed mountain
artillery used in New Guinea, have liquidated the
Jap threat to Australia. We made the guns—and
we’ve made the munitions too.
Our Bonds have equipped out Army, Navy and
Air Force. We’ve built factories, roads, air fields
and the hundreds of other things that have gone
into our total war effort. We’ve done this in the
past, and we’re not going to let up now victory
is in sight. Now is the time for the knock-out
blow! The Second Victory Loan opens shortly
but you can make an advance subscription at
once. If you have not the ready cash available,
keep on buying 5/- National Savings Stamps so
that when the Loan opens you will have suffi-
cient for a deposit on a Victory Bond.
2PVX4-19
Central Bank’s Report
The Commonwealth Bank, in its annual
report, emphasises that since the major
transfer of our resources to the war effort
have now been made, and the war effort
has reached its peak, “it is necessary to
exercise a much greater supervision over
all war expenditure, and to eliminate
promptly any unessential projects or ser-
vices.” The board recommends a speedy
beginning on post-war plans, planning to
be accompanied by the diversion of such
resources as can be spared.
As to post-war problems in general:
The internal situation in Australia after the
war will be dominated by the requirements of
reconstruction. The absorption into civilian
employment of men discharged from the ser-
vices, and the transfer of many people now
engaged in war occupations to civilian activities,
will be an immense task. It is clear that one of
the conditions conducive to the successful solu-
tion of the post-war employment problem will
be the continued maintenance of a high level
of industrial activity. This implies that the re-
conversion of industry to civilian production
must be carried through with a minimum of
disturbance, and that civilian production must
be enlarged when necessary to absorb any
surplus capacity left by declining war produc-
tion. Some labor and materials will need to
be allocated to undertake the necessary pre-
paratory work, particularly in connection with
housing and certain phases of manufacturing
industry.
In the immediate post-war period, there will
be no lack of effective demand for both goods
and services. Plant and equipment have deterio-
rated, inventories have been reduced, the supply
of durable consumption goods in the hands of
consumers will need to be replenished, the de-
mand for housing will be urgent. The amount
of purchasing power already available to the
community, in the hands of institutions and
individual consumers, is extremely high. There
may, however, be difficulties in obtaining cer-
tain types of imports which are in short supply,
as well as some local materials and home-
produced equipment. The transition to a post-
war civilian economy is just as difficult a
problem as the transition from peace to war,
and demands just as much care in its achieve-
ment. The active assistance of the commercial
and industrial community will be required in
continuing enterprise and maintaining employ-
ment.
For some time our industries and import
trade will not be able to supply all the goods
which will be required by the holders of pur-
chasing power which is already available. This
does not mean that the purchasing power of
the community represented in these accumula-
tions cannot in the long run be fully exercised.
It does mean, however, that it cannot all be
immediately exercised, and some part of it
must be deferred until industry has been able
to overtake the arrears of the community’s de-
mands. If the necesssity for the postponement
of some consumption of goods in short supply
is not recognised, and suitable restraint imposed,
then further inflationary pressures will be gene-
rated, which it may not prove possible to con-
trol. If suitable Governmental measures are
temporarily continued to control prices, con-
sumption and investment, the dangers of a post-
war inflationary spiral can be mihimised. It
is the opinion of the Board that the community
must reconcile itseslf to some postponement of
expenditure, and to some restraints on con-
sumption and investment, so as to avoid serious
inflationary loss and disorder.
At June 30 the total of Treasury bills
discounted for the Commonwealth Gov-
ernment for war purposes was £343 mil-
lion. The board comments that “con-
tinued reliance on this form of finance
adds to the excess spending power already
in the hands of the public, and therefore
increases the problem of its control after
the war.” Although it is said that no
central-bank credit was used in filling the
year’s war loan offerings, “more liberal
support should have been forthcoming
from the public.” The extent to which
the Commonwealth Savings Bank was
apparently called upon to assist in the fill-
ing of war loans in 1943-44 is mentioned
elsewhere.
Post-war Public Works
In his report to the National Works
Council knight Harry Brown submitted
a programme involving the expenditure
of £193 million after the war. It in-
cluded £153 million of “priority A” work,
and this part of the programme has been
approved, “in principle,” by the council.
The proposed outlay includes overhaul
of railways, etc.
Sir Harry regretted that the greater part
of the programme “had not yet been pro-
duced in a form completely planned ready
for the works to be begun.” (With a sec-
tion of the Commonwealth’s advisers so
fully occupied in trying to introduce new
economic doctrines into the country’s
management, the real issues have un-
doubtedly been neglected.) The Co-
ordinator General of Works expressed
the opinion that “there should be a still
greater concentration of effort on vitally
important and urgent works, avoiding the
dissipation of skilled resources on detailed
studies of long-range projects.” He added
that many of the present proposed works
might justifiably be examined in greater
detail to determine whether they had
been framed in the most economical
manner. Also, planning which had been
completed to a stage where works could
be started immediately represented only
33 p.c. of the total. The delay in com-
pleting the planning work was “likely to
be prolonged, and might cause an em-
barrassing and awkward situation.” The
council decided that orders should be
placed in advance for specialised equip-
ment required for the works, the delivery
of which might be delayed.
The comments of Sir Harry Brown on
the inadequacy of Governmental post-war
plans—Canberra has been blowing its
trumpet for months about its marvellous
“plans”—are an indication of the brazen
impudence of the Commonwealth Gov-
ernment in asking for greater Constitu-
tional powers in order to “prevent de-
pressions,” and of the outrageous cheek
of a few of its prominent bureaucrats in
making all sorts of extravagant charges
about the “deficiencies of private enter-
prise.” Since the referendum the most
prominent of these bureaucrats appear
to have crawled into a deep hole. The
Department of Post-war Reconstruction
should be in for the glare of the spotlight
when Parliament can find time.
Apart from the political aspect —that
is, why Treasury consent should have
been granted to the issue when it has
been refused in the case of more useful
industries —the request for £150,000 of
new pref. capital by Consolidated Press
raises the question of whether the 5* p.c.
offered would have attracted public sub-
scription in a sharemarket less hungry for
scrip. The second prefs. rank after
£lOO,OOO of 6* p.c. pref. capital, while
the ord. issue is £575,000. The 7 p.c.
prefs. in Associated Newspapers, the con-
cern which publishes Sydney “Sun,” have
been getting £5 Bs. 6d. per cent, under
the terms of the Interest-reduction Act,
but should distributions to the ords.
recover to 1939 levels they will be en-
titled to 7 p.c. again. These prefs. last
sold at 21s. 6d. The net tangible back-
ing in Associated is not so high, on book
values, as in the case of Consolidated.
It. seems definite, however, that all pref.
issues at the present time are appreciating
under influence of the artificially low
interest rates set for war loans and other
controlled borrowing, and the absence
of opportunities to invest in new issues.
Under open-market conditions it is doubt-
ful indeed whether Consolidated 5* p.c.
second prefs. would be attractive to in-
vestors, It must be remembered that all
war-lime purchases will one day become
subject to peace-time conditions.
:jc sfc $ ❖
There has been little to complain about
in Britain’s war production —by compari-
son with Australia’s, anyway—and the
cost of living has been kept in check
remarkably well considering the depend-
ence on overseas countries for food, etc.
However, there appears to have been no
attempt to control profits, even if con-
trol of prices (the main thing) has been
effective. Here is a list of dividends paid
by 85 cos. whose results were tabled in
“The ‘Times’ Trade and Engineering” for
June. The rates are taken just as they
came from company reports listed in
alphabetical order;
7, 3*, 6, 10, Nil, 10, 10, 11, 10, 7*, 6, 7*, 5,
3, Nil, 8, 15, 17*, 13T, 9,4, 22*, 7*, 40, 15,
B*. 8,5, 30, 30, 8,5, 5, 40, 4,6, 20, 17, 20, 5,
10, 8,6, 15, 15, 12*, Nil, 7*, 35, 3, 15, 5,5,
20, 23, 10, 7*, 27*, 20, 4,6, 7*, 40, 80, 6, 15,
12*, 7*, 15, 10, 20, 5, 121, 22*, 18, Nil, 22*,
10, 40, 7*, 7*, 17*, 20, 7, 8.
It will be seen that the rates range from
nothing up to 80 p.c. (paid by Rolls Razor
Co. on deferred shares). The Union Bank
of Scotland paid 18 p.c., British Portland
Cement 17* p.c.. Clan Line Steamers 15
p.c., Cairn Line 4 p.c., Cerebos Salt 40
p.c., Stewarts and Lloyds 12* p.c. (de-
ferred shares) and J. and P. Coats 8* p.c.
The cotton industry cuts a poor figure,
on the whole.
* * * *
The manager of the firm distributing the
products of Courtaulds, Ltd., of Britain,
in Australia last week denied a statement
that the big rayon concern was prepared
to spend £5 million on an Australian fac-
tory. “The possibility exists that Court-
aulds may do so at some future date, but
before this could happen certain very
great difficulties would have to be over-
come.”
* * * *
E. T. Simpson, chairman of Mort’s
Dock, prophesies severe competition in
the Australian shipbuilding industry after
the war. There would be a demand for a
certain type of passenger vessel not pro-
duced during the war, and there would
be conversion jobs, but “Mort’s Dock will
have to face competition from the new
Federal Dockyard at Sydney, the State
dockyard at Newcastle, the Queensland
State dockyard at Brisbane and the Vic-
torian Government dockyard at Williams-
town. In addition,” said Mr. Simpson,
“there is Evans, Deakin, at Maryborough
(Q.), in which the Federal Government
has an interest; and lastly there is
Cockatoo dockyard in Sydney, owned by
the Federal Government, but before the
war leased to Cockatoo Docks and Engi-
neering Co., Ltd., over which some con-
trol will no doubt be retained after the
war.” Chief competitor among private
enterprises would be 8.H.P., operating at
Whyalla, S.A., and there would be other
smaller concerns,
* * * *
Australian butter production in 1943-
44, according to Canberra figures, was
157,000 tons—l3,6oo tons (8 p.c.) less
than in the preceding year and 18,000
tons below the goal set by Mr. Scully.
Compared with the average for the three
years to June, 1941, the 1943-44 output
was down 40,000 tons. The amount sent
to Britain was 41,718 tons in the latest
year, apart from supplies to servicemen.
Australians ate about 80,000 tons, com-
pared with 103,621 tons in 1937-38 —
reckoned by Drs. Coombs and Ross to
be a year of great unemployment and
depression caused by private enterprise.
Last year’s shipments to Britain were
3082 tons less than was sought by the
Old Country. Butter production for
1944.45 is put tentatively at 144,000 tons.
Australian civilians are expected to con-
sume 76,000 tons, Australian, British and
Allied forces 23,000 tons, and the British
Food Ministry 45,000 tons.


THE SERVICE MAN
Pacific and Burma.
“Ek Dum”: Apart from “softening up”
in the Molu'ccas-Celebes-South Philip-
pines area by Allied air fprces, all was
quiet on the Pacific front last week.
Tokyo several times commented uneasily
on great preparations afoot by the Allies
for advances nearer to the heart of Japa-
nese East Indies conquests.
Towards the week-end bombers sank
five enemy freighters and probably sank
a cruiser in a raid on Celebes ports. The
enemy suffered other shipping casualties
earlier in the week.
On August 25 85 tons oi bombs were
dropped on Koror, in the largest raid to
date on Palau. Wake Island, Nauru and
many New Guinea and Caroline Islands
targets were attacked.
General MacArthur’s H.Q. reported
that continuous bombing had immobil-
ised Halmahera, the next stepping-stone
towards the Philippines, where, by
evacuation of civilians from Manila, the
Japanese are providing evidence of in-
tense preparation for their coming trials.
Burma Campaign Results
Lord Louis Mountbatten, on a .visit
to England, told the press the story of
the Burma campaign. He said that the
battle for Imphal in terms of numbers
was one of the greatest yet fought with
Japanese. The enemy had been driven
back and the pursuit had not ceased with
the coming of the monsoon. Allied
casualties had been serious—10,000 killed,
3000 missing and 27,000 wounded, with
more than 250,000 “mosquito” casualties,
mostly malaria and dysentery. But the
Japanese had lost 50,000 dead, and their
sickness casualties were far greater than
those of the Allies.
As for the Japanese air force, it had
been practically swept out of the Bur-
mese skies. The Allied air forces had
done a tremendous job—apart from
battle they had had carried 70,000 tons
of supplies and 93,000 men, including
25,500 casualties, since May, serving a
line of 700 miles, the longest battle line
on land in the world, save that in Russia.
The British advances towards the
Chindwin and the Allied advances from
North Burma continue.
On August 24 a powerful British air-
craft task force under Rear-Admiral
Clement Moody attacked shipping and
war works at Emma Haven, the port of
Padang, Sumatra, doing much damage.
"Great, Complete, Decisive."
“Ek Dum”; Every day makes it clearer
that General Montgomery has won a
tremendous victory in France. It will
have a greater effect on the outcome of
the war than any other victory save that
in the Battle of Britain and the conquest
of the U-boats, without which the in-
vasion of western Europe would not
have been possible, and the holding out
of Malta, key to the Mediterranean. It
is not tantamount to the utter defeat of
Germany, but it paves the way for attack
on Germany. In General Montgomery’s
own words, it is “a definite, complete
and decisive victory” in North-western
France.
In the larger field it represents the de-
struction of the powerful Seventh Ger-
man Army. But it is well to remember
that a month ago there were at least 14
German armies in existence, even if some
of them had been badly mauled and
needed reorganisation and large rein-
forcement and re-equipment.
On August 22 General Montgomery,
with a proper mixture of pride and grati-
tude due to the grand achievement of his
armies (“The Lord mighty in battle has
given us victory”) gave a balanced out-
line of the work ahead:
Much still remains to be done, but it will
now be done more easily.... Having
brought disaster to the Germans in north-
western France we must now complete the
destruction of such of the enemy’s forces
as are still available to be destroyed. It is
unlikely, _ after knowing what happened to
the armies in north-western France, that
they will come to us, so we will go to
them The news is very good from all
war fronts. The end of the war is in sight.
Let us finish the business in record time!
Thus he sounded the trumpet for an-
other battle, while the mess from the
first was cleaned up. Meanwhile, those
Germans who did not get out of the de-
partments of France west of the Seine,
and west of the higher course of the
Loire, were due to be mopped up and
flung on the rubbish heap of the war.
Dr. Goebbels’s Last Trump
Another trumpet was sounded at the
other end of the Allied battering ram —by
Goebbels:
The hour foreseen by our Fuhrer in which
the Wehrmacht would withdraw within the
inner fortress of the Reich has struck.
The Fuhrer now intends to retire his
loyal and glorious legions behind the im-
penetrable ramparts of the West Wall.
To penetrate to the inner defences will
cost the Jewish plutocrats such dreadful
losses that they will be impelled to accord
Germany a peace that will guarantee her a
just place in the future development of
Europe..,.
All the evidence pointed to the fact
that by August 18 Germany had begun
to withdraw into its far inner defences —
defences bounded by the Rhine and the
West Wall positions in the mountains in
the west; behind the Alps and the
Danube in the south ; behind the Silesian
and Beskiden or the Carpathian Ranges
and the Vistula in the east, leaving its
satellites outside those natural features
to fend for themselves.
General Montgomery’s Anniversary
August 18 was the second anniversary
of the day on which a little man in a
black beret stepped into Egypt to take
command of the armies of El Alamein.
He went there as the result of a vast plan
which had been bom in the minds of the
British General Staff when Britain stood
alone in 1941, one which for some months
was already in process of being blue-
printed by a Chief of Staff, Lieut.-Gen-
eral W. D. Morgan, little known. Till
1938 he was an instructor at the R.M.C.,
Woolwich. He is a Scot, who served in
the last war and was for a time in
Waziristan and later military at
Budapest. He was knighted last week.
Within 2y months the little man in
Egypt, who had taken the last British
division out of France at Dunkirk, had
won the battle of El Alamein. The
1943 “Americana” (the most authorita-
tive year-book of the U.S.), said that he
was “widely acclaimed by the Allies as
the man who for the first rime in the
Second World War has beaten a German
Army.”
The victory had reduced a German-
Italian force of 140,000 to 50,000 men.
It had robbed the Germans of 1100 guns
—a hundred more than the B.E.F. lost in
France in 1940 —and 70 per cent, of
their tank strength. It had doomed their
hopes of taking Suez and reaching Asia
and the Indian Ocean.
It served notice on Hitler of what was
ahead. The retreat to Fortress Germany
began three days later just to the north
of Stalingrad on the Italian sector of the
Don-Volga front. A general retreat in
Russia followed at once.
One year later General Montgomery’s
Eighth Army was rolling up the toe of
Italy, with Tunisia and Sicily behind him.
When, his Eighth Army landed in Sicily,
as part of General Alexander’s forces,
to take over the main and most difficult
sectors there on July 10, 1943, air squad-
rons from Malta were joining in after a
long, grand defensive during which the
islanders had suffered 3500 air raids.
Malta had been pulled through its last
months by Field Marshal Gort. Nearly
all the leaders of military Britain of 1940,
scorned by the peahen press as Colonel
Blimps and wearers of “the Old School
Tie,” have become the scourges of the Hun.
Three days after the landing in Sicily,
Hitler began another retreat in Russia.
Five days before the landing he had
opened a large offensive on the Byel-
gorod-Orel sector, and was actually mak-
ing substantial progress, when the news
of Sicily reached Berlin.
At once the Germans turned in their
tracks. They had been steadily with-
drawing ever since, with pauses, one of
which was in being when the landing in
Normandy was made.
That landing was a, great victory in
itself. And it had the usual reaction in
the east. So soon as the bridgehead was
assured along the Bay of the Seine and
the fate of Cherbourg was sealed, the
Germans in the east left again on another
stage of their retreat into Poland, this
time to the Vistula.
With the complete defeat of the
Seventh Army, still another east-front
retirement began.
Montgomery’s Show
For General Montgomery the Norman
victory was a double one. It represented
to him both the beginning of a tri-
umphant advance in the campaign of
1944 and a victorious ending to his cam-
paign of 1940. For the first troops to
land on the Seine Bay beaches were those
of his old veteran division, the Third
(8.E.F.), the last British division to leave
Dunkirk.
Correspondents have not made it clear
how much it was General Montgomery’s
show or that the main fighting has been
done by the British-Canadian armies.
The American part has been rather that
of occupation since the break-through.
London “Daily Mail” summed it up
fairly:
It is from us, not from the Americans,
that the Germans are retreating. We are
the beaters, driving the enemy on to the
Americans’ guns. It was a big army we
were fighting, and quite a bit of it got away
from the Normandy pocket. This is the
real army between us and a complete vic-
tory in the West.
The Germans themselves were in no
doubt about what was happening, as wit-
ness the comment of Captain Sertorius:
The British general’s intention has been
to herd the Seventh Army together at the
mouth of the Seine, thus producing great
risks for us.
The Canadians were at Honfleur at the
week-end, though held up for a time on
the Risle River at Port Audemer. On
August 28 they were within gunfire' of
Rouen in the great Seine bend. The
British had a firm bridgehead further up
the river at Vernon, 30 miles from
Rouen; another down the river 10 miles
from Rouen at Port de I’Arche.
Enemy forces between Vernon and the
sea in Normandy were cut off. Berlin
Radio said uneasily that the bulk of the
troops had escaped by ferry; and if the
numbers there against the 15-mile-wide
estuary and the river above are not as
large as they might be, the explanation
is in General Montgomery’s own words:
“Destruction of enemy personnel and
equipment in and about the so-called
Normandy pocket has been terrific, and
is still going on.” An army spokesman
placed the numbers in the Seine pocket
at between 40,000 and 50,000.
The American Part
Speaking of the Americans who were
roving further south. General Mont-
gomery said:
I as a British general can speak for all
soldiers of the Empire, and can express
high admiration for the brave fighting qua'i-
ties of the American armies. We shall
never want to fight alongside better soldiers.
And the Americans, despite the long
distances they have covered and the many
cities they and the accompanying
French Army divisions and the French
Forces of the Interior and the Maquis
have occupied, have not yet developed their
full role in the fighting. That will come.
Their operations have mainly been in
fast armored drives or landings in regions
from which the enemy already has re-
tired, leaving behind, sometimes, strong
rearguards for specific purposes ; some-
times, nothing and nobody. The nature
of the war conducted by these forces of
General Bradley is best illustrated by the
fact that up till three weeks after Brest,
St. Nazaire and Lorient had been isolated
no assault had been made on those ports.
The obvious explanation was that armored
spearheads capable of blocking the roads
into and out of them had outrun the
infantry and stores and naval organisa-
tion necessary for assaults. There had
to be delay while these were brought up.
At most other places the role of the
Americans was more like that of an
arresting constable than a fighting force,
except on the fringes of the Falaise pocket
and the approaches to Mantes, where they
heeded to show their quality, as they had
done in the Cherbourg Peninsula. Some-
times they had to say “Come quietly,
now,” to some small, Lough enemy rear-
guard, but, generally speaking, they met
no great resistance. Sometimes they raced
into towns and found Maquis, who had
kicked tenuous outgoing German rear-
guards in the stern.
It was the same in the south. The first
five days’ fighting in the Riviera gained
the Approaches to the Rhone Valley,
doomed the German hold on France’s
two great Mediterranean ports of Tou-
lon and Marseilles and opened the way
along the Cote D’or towards the rear of
Kesselring’s armies in northern Italy and
the rich industrial centres of Milan and
Turin. These operations cost three
American divisions only 1221 killed
and 1754 wounded —far less than
smaller forces suffered in the same time
on Saipan and at Tarawa. And when
Marseilles had yielded (save for a pocket),
when Cannes, Grasse, Arles and Toulon
were in Allied hands and Avignon had
fallen, only 30,000 nondescript German
prisoners had been taken.
But what a three weeks it had been!
St. Malo, Nantes, Rennes, Le Mans,
Chartres, Orleans, Angers, Dreux, Evreux,
Etampes, Laval, Alenpon, L’Aigle, Falaise,
Lisieux, historic Honfleur, Deauville,
Trouville, Bernay, Beaumont le Roger-
all these were in Allied hands, along with
many more. Toulouse had spewed out its
Germans without seeing an Allied soldier.
Bordeaux, greatest port of Biscay, had
been captured after a small parachute in-
vasion. Allied troops had been landed
athwart Wellington’s routes from Spain,
down by St, Jean de Luz, near the Spanish
border. Lastly, Paris was free.
Algiers Radio reported on August 28
that forces from Grenoble had reached
the Swiss border near Geneva, but it was
not confirmed.
At the week-end all these triumphs be-
longed to the strategies of the past. What
was important respecting the future was
the direction that the American spearheads
began to take even before Paris fell.
On to the Marne
It was here written (B. 16/8/M4) before
the trends of the battle towards the Seine
had fully revealed themselves:
Chartres.... is the gateway to the routes
along the Loire; to the lower Seine Valley
and the gaps of Fontainebleau, Sens and
Auxerre, and, beyond, to the open country
of the Champagne— to Chalons-sur-Marne,
to Rheims, to the Sedan Gap. A second
series of roads leads, via Etampes, to the
wide Seine Valley in the Corbeil-Melun
area. Corbeil is 30 miles south of Paris.
It was said that to bypass the capital by
crossing the river in the Mantes region
to the north and by these southern routes
would be as important as taking it, since
it would threaten the whole German
northern flank east of the Seine and
divide the enemy’s northern and southern
forces in the heart of France.
When that was written the regions and
routes described were so remote that they
had not been mentioned in the cables.
But already the Seine has been crossed by
the use of them—in the south, it was said,
in three places: from Fontainebleau, at
Nogent; from Sens, at Troyes ; from the
Melun-Corbeil area, on the main roads
behind Paris, to Meaux, Soissons and
Laon direct. It was reported on the
morning of August 28 that one spearhead
was already on the Marne atLagny, 15 miles
east of Paris and 14 miles from Meaux.
The Americans were driving to the rear
of the Somme line. The forces north of
Paris, so soon as their bridgeheads were
consolidated, might be expected to move
forward over the country which their air
armadas were already blasting. There
could be expected in a few days the test
of whether the Germans would try to
make a stand in central France, as they
probably would if they could, since re-
treat direct to Belgium would mean the
abandonment of flying-bomb sites and
would allow the Allied rush to acquire
such momentum that it would take a ter-
rible lot of stopping, especially if it were
reinforced by flanking landings from the
Channel, at Boulogne, Calais and Dun-
kirk. The enemy was reported to be
bringing reinforcements towards the
Seine at the week-end.
Paris is Free
Of all the events of the week, however,
the most spectacular and significant for
Europe was the freeing of Paris.
The details of how it came about are
still obscure. It seems, however, that
General Koenig, who knew his capital
and had only 50,000 ill-armed men with-
in the Parisian environs, adroitly arranged
a police strike. This handed over Paris to
mobs, which, barehanded as they were,
emerged from the “red belt,” The Ger-
mans, already on the move, asked for an
armistice.
They hastened their going. In the last
stages it became necessary for them to
block the main ways in and out of the
capital by reason of the rapid advance of
the Americans across the Seine at Mantes
and Corbeil. Thus there was fighting at
either end of the great highway which
bisects the whole city from the Bois—
through the Champs and the Rue de
Rivoli to the Place de la Bastille, and
out on the east side through the Porte
de Vincennes,
This the enemy blocked for a time by
holding the Hotel de Ville, which faces
both the Rue de Rivoli and the quays of
the Seine and the Tuileries,
There was also fighting on the Mont-
martre Heights and the adjacent areas
which hold the three great Paris railway
stations, and round the canal port of
Villette —Paris, though 100 miles from
the sea is the third port of France —and
in the abattoirs and food suburbs round
Villette and Pantin.
Towards the week-end General U
Clerc’s African Armored Division, which
had fought all the way from Lake Tchad,
in Central Africa, followed by an Ameri-
can division, were thrown into Paris from
south of the Seine through the industrial
suburbs of the quartiers mijerdbles be-
tween Bercy and Grenelles. Le Clercs
men came in through the Orleans ana
Italien gates converging towards the Ik
de la Citd, which holds the Palace of
Justice (the Conciergerie of the Revolu-
tion), the Prefecture of Police and Notre
Dame, passing through the Luxembourg
and Latin quarters.
When they arrived there was still fierce
fighting going on round the
where Napoleon lies, and the Chambe;
of Deputies, across the river from the
Place de la Concorde, and in the higher
parts of the Latin Quarter, which seemec
to be full of machine-guns. Somebod
threw a grenade at General Le Clerc a>
he waited to enter the Orleans Gate.
On Friday evening, about 7 p.m., when
General de Gaulle was in the city, capitu-
lations were signed on Montparnasse.
About 10,000 Germans surrendered.
On the day of surrender Paris bau


Missing Friend.
TO ELIAS ANTONIOS formerly of 33 Mackenzie
Street Melbourne in the State of Victoria Laborer
the husband of EVELYN DORA ANTONIOS.—TAKE
NOTICE that your wife the said Evelyn Dora AN-
tonios having instituted proceedings against you for
Divorce on the grounds of desertion for three years
and uwards unless you enter an appearance in the
Office of the Prothonotary of the Supreme Court of
Victoria at Melbourne on or before the 20th day of
September 1944 and file an Answer in the said Office
on or before the 2nd day of October 1944 the
case will proceed in your absence and an order for
costs may be made against you DATED the 16th
day of August 1944.
HIOKFORD & MACKENZIE, 4 Bank Place, Mel-
bourne, Proctors for the Petitioner.
ax
am
beautiful sunshine to go mad in. The
whole city seems to have been beflagged,
beflowered, drunk with excitement and
dancing, though ringed with the black
columns of smoke from burning suburbs.
The rejoicings were in no way damped
by shots fired at General de Gaulle and
others as they made their triumphal pro-
cession at 40 miles an hour to the Arc
de Triomphe.
The Germans bombed and shelled
Paris. It was reported that they had done
much damage and caused many fires.
With the capture of Paris the battle
for north-western France might be said
to have ended and that of north-eastern
France begun.
Alexander Still Advancing.
“Ek Dum”: The official newspaper of
the Eighth Army last week reported the
arrival of a Greek force in Italy.
Meanwhile, the Eighth Army continues
to push into the screen positions of the
Gothic Line on the hills east of Florence
and on each side of the upper Arno and
Tiber valleys. Florence is in Allied hands.
On the Adriatic side the Metauro
River has been crossed and a bridgehead
established on high ground nine miles
from Fano. Germans admit deep pene-
trations into their lines.
The Fifth Army was also active, and
the heavies of the Italian Allied Com-
mand gave the Germans in the Balkans
a lively week.
By crow-line, the Pisa end of General
Alexander’s front, which appears to be
getting into motion for a further advance
all the way across the Peninsula, is only
150 miles from General Devers’s troops
before Nice. But it is far longer in terms
of ground travel.
Air War in Europe.
“Ek Dum”: British, American and
Dominion air forces must feel like Atlas
with the world on his shoulders.
A few of their tasks; (1) Defence of
Britain against flying bombs; (2) laying
of minefields on all German sea routes,
especially in the Baltic ; (3) support, both
strategical and tactical, of armies in
France, Italy, Burma and the Pacific,
which includes the bombing of industrial
Germany ; (4) divisions of air forces for
the Chinese and for Marshal Tito, who
have none ; (5) aid for the gallant Poles
in Warsaw ; (6) assistance to the Russians
by attacks on industrial targets in two-
way bombing from Italy, and on Konigs-
berg and its feeder ports from Kiel east.
Either the R.A.F. has a great many men
and machines available, in spite of crew
losses, estimated to run into four figures
every week, or else the Russians, in spite
of assurances that they have complete air
superiority over the Luftwaffe, are badly
in need of help. If that were not the case
petrol and ’planes would scarcely be used
in R.A.F. raids on Konigsberg, 750 miles
from the British coast over a most dan-
gerous route, but only 80 miles from
the Russian front.
In one R.A.F. raid carried out in
part by Australian Lancaster crews about
1200 tons of bombs fell on Konigsberg
and 1700 tons on Kiel. Also, Berlin was
bombed by Mosquitoes. Twenty-nine
bombers were lost.
U.S. bombers attacked oil plants in
Germany and a variety of objectives
over a wide area in the rear of the Ger-
man eastern front. Raids during the
week included many attacks on airfields
in the Balkans.
Flying Bombs
Although there was a 40-hour lull in
flying-bomb activity last week great
damage continues to be done, some of it
in the heart of London, and casualties
increase.
One bomb landed in the oldest part of
Lincoln’s Inn precincts. It hit the old
church, with its underneath arches, which
already bore marks of last war’s bombing,
and the old red-brick gateway into
Chancery-lane, over which Thurlow,
Cromwell’s secretary, had his office.
President Roosevelt and Lord Halifax
have referred movingly to what the
greatly-tried people of London and the
southern counties are suffering. And a
Sydney Sunday paper, while recording
that “Sydney bookmakers won £200,000
at Randwick in one of the most sensa-
tional betting orgies ever witnessed on
an Australian racecourse,” had a sober
article in which its editor, recently in Lon-
don, gave a list of what a game people
is taking: “One explosion killed 111 and
injured hundreds; almost a million
houses damaged by blast; about
1,000,000 people evacuated; practically
everybody is getting too little sleep and
the constant alerts are disrupting work.”
Surcease from agony may be said to be
on the way. But it will be at the very
best weeks before the main areas of the
bomb bases can be fully overrun by the
Allies in France.
At the same time, control of the Seine
will give the British and Americans the
great limestone caves along the river,
believed to be major storage centres.
Balkans Somersaults.
“Ek Dum”: Over a year ago—
-19/6/’43 to be exact —Moscow Radio
announced that Rumania had lost
700.000 men in the war with Russia.
Rumania is bled white. The people are
starving. Only surrender can save them.
On July 23, 1943, it was learned that
King Michael, who is 23 years old, M.
Maniu, leader of the Peasant party, and
others were demanding the withdrawal of
Rumanian troops entirely from the Rus-
sian front, and that the Rumanian Army
was in a state of rebellion. On Novem-
ber 22 it was declared that, as the result
of a conference between Hitler and
Rumania’s Antonescu, all Rumanian
troops had been withdrawn.
Silence descended on the Rumanian
political situation until spring was in the
offing and the Red Army invaded the
fringes of Rumania. The Germans were
represented as fleeing for their lives
through that hapless country. It seemed
that Rumania’s goose was cooked.
As March, 1944, came in, news was
received that the Bulgarians were petition-
ing Britain and America for peace. Bul-
garia was under threat by Russia (with
which it was not at war), but was sitting
on nice, fat slices of Macedonia.
About that time a Rumanian friendly
to Britain was in Cairo supposedly pros-
pecting the chances of peace. By the end
of the month he had returned somewhat
dejectedly to Bucharest.
Before the end of the month, during
which correspondents were waiting for
the Russians to “pour” over the Car-
pathian passes, there was news of the
establishment of a puppet Hungarian
Government under Field-Marshal Sztogay.
The Germans protested that it was
necessary to do something about Hungary
to “prevent a repetition of the Badoglio
betrayal.” By March 29 it was reported
that they had taken over all transport
and railway communications in Hungary
and Rumania, all the seaports of Bul-
garia and Rumania on the Black Sea, and
were “pouring” into Rumania.
The Rumanian-Bulgarian scene then
became quiet while the thaw and the sub-
sequent late spring floods did their worst.
Last week Berlin announced that the
Russians had opened a new Rumanian
front offensive from the mouth of the
Dniester to Jassy, a city of about 104,000
people, on the Pruth.
The Dniester Offensive
The Russians had made strong-
arm attempts to outflank and encircle
Jassy, but hitherto had failed, as they had
done last year at Vitebsk, Orsha, Mogi-
Iqv and Bobruisk on the central front.
But as these fortresses fell swiftly, sp did
Jassy, and after Jassy a number of other
points and towns of importance such as
Akkerman, on the southern side of the
Dniester estuary, Chisinau (Kishinev) and
places on the Carpathian side of Jassy
like Roman, along the strategic railway
which skirts the mountains behind the
Sereth River. The Russians took two or
three days before they admitted that there
was an offensive in this region, as stated
by Berlin. They then announced the cap-
ture of many towns, including those men-
tioned above; also a 40-mile advance to
a defence line along the foothills of the
Rumanian Carpathians and across the
100-mile-wide Galatz Gap, which is
guarded by the Danube and its tributary
estuary, lakes and rivers.
Moscow reported that General Mali-
novsky’s troops, who captured Jassy,
killed 13,000 Germans and took 7000
prisoners while advancing 45 miles on a
front of 65 miles. Thousands of other
Germans were killed on other parts of
the front along the Carpathian area.
Later it was reported that the number
had been increased to 20,000 and that
27.000 had been taken on the Gap front
in five days.
King Michael’s Broadcast
Suddenly a broadcast from Bucharest
announced that King Michael, backed by
M. Maniu, had agreed to change sides.
The Allies, according to the Bucharest
broadcast, agreed to denounce the 1940
Diktat of Vienna, which handed a
large section of Transylvania back to the
Hungarians. A “democratic” govern-
ment was being formed, including Com-
munists. Russia was to keep Bessarabia,
part of the spoils of 1940.
The subsequent position became vague.
It was held that the Rumanian surrender
meant that the army, previously beaten
remnants, holders of long-distance run-
ning championships, with the Volga as
starting point, had developed into a stern
and patriotic fighting force of 20 to 30
divisions, whose defection had stunned and
demoralised the Germans; that Rumania
would immediately fall into Russian
hands; that the Russians would swarm
down on to the plains of the Danube and
across its lower reaches to the Ploesti
oilfields; that 40 divisions of Marshal
Koniev and General Malinovsky would
become available “for use elsewhere.”
It is unlikely that the Germans were
taken by surprise. Their measures last
year—occupation of transport lines and
fortification of Rumanian and Bulgarian
ports—showed that they had no faith in
their Balkan allies. They have two
armies, the reconstituted Sixth and the
veteran Eighth—on active service since
1939 —totalling perhaps 45 divisions, in-
cluding reserves. These are enough to
hold the Carpathians and the Galatz Gap
if they are at anything like full strength
and well supplied and if their fighting
quality remains.
The retreats from Akkerman and Kishi-
ney were expected. It was here written
(B. 19/4/ ’44) that the enemy would prob-
ably give up Kishinev, “throwing his
defence lines across the Galatz Gap from
the Carpathians to the sea.” The Gap,
about 100 miles wide, runs between the
mountains and the sea. It is strongly
placed for defence. The land is low
and seeded with great and wide lakes and
the maze of branches and anabranches
of the Danube delta.
The Russians at the week-end had
reached the main line of defence, had
taken Galatz and were ranged along the
Danube for 40 miles toward the sea. The
Russians claimed to have 12 German
divisions encircled nearer the Dniester,
and the Rumanians announced that they
had thrown the Germans out of Bucha-
rest and had taken several thousand
prisoners. Rumanian regiments were still
reported as surrendering to the Russians.
There is more involved in a break-
through than control of the Ploesti oil-
fields. Control of the lower Danube,
which for hundreds of miles is up to 15
miles wide, and of Bulgaria would be in-
evitable if that were achieved. But the
hats were being thrown up too early, as
they were at the end of March when Syd-
ney papers drew pictures of “the broken
remnants of the Wehrmacht streaming
across the Pruth.”
Fighting in Poland
The position in general on the Russian
front is that except on the Pskov sector,
a small front just north-west of Bicly-
stok, and the Galatz Gap front, the Rus-
sians are not as well off as they seemed
to be on August 7 or thereabouts.
Then they were supposed to be on the
East Prussian border at Eydkuhnen, in
the Insterburg Gap. Three attempts to
break over the border there have since
failed, and the forward lines are several
miles to the eastward of Eydtkuhnen. A
threat to Lyck and an imminent breaking
into the Masurian-Lakes position were
mentioned. Nothing came of them. All
along the eastern border of East Prussia
the enemy went into strong counter-
attacks, gaining ground. He is still
counter-attacking.
Further north the Russians failed to
hold Tukums and the Jelgava junction
(recaptured on Aug. 6), thus enabling the
Germans to re-establish a corridor along
the coast between Riga and Libau and
Tilsit. In the Jelgava area at the week-
end it was the Germans, not tfie Rus-
sians, who were attacking.
In the drive towards East Prussia on
the Johannisburg (southern) front, where
the Russians are attempting to reach the
Neidenburg-Soldau Gap, they have not
been able to push across the Narew River
and are more than 50 miles from their
objective. Heavy fighting was reported
there at the week-end.
In the Warsaw sector three weeks ago
the Red Army was supposed to be within
two miles of General Bor’s Polish troops
fighting in Praga. Their nearest point
at the week-end was about seven miles
from the Praga suburbs. In parts of the
sector they have been warding off enemy
counter-attacks. At latest advices the
Poles, supplied by the R.A.F., were still
holding their own in parts of Warsaw.
On August 27 a new Russian offensive
against Praga was said to be beginning.
In the Sandomiercz bridgehead, 120
miles further south, Sandomiercz was re-
ported to have been overrun in the first week
in August, “Powerful Russian armored
columns” were on the high ground of the
Lysa Gora, only 25 miles from Kielce,
and the main external German defence
line was held up as having been taken.
But the line is now 30 miles further back
and the Russians have had to fight to
maintain it.
Still further south, on August 3, Cracow
was “already menaced by Marshal
Koniev’s men who, advancing from Jaro-
slav across the San, were reported only
30 miles from the fortress city of
Cracow.” Last week Marshal Stalin issued
a special communique announcing the cap-
ture of Debica, which is on the Jaroslav-
Cracow road, along which Koniev was
advancing, but 60 miles from Cracow.
General Fuller’s Comment
Moscow gave German casualties on
the Rumanian front for five days to
August 25, as 100,000 killed and 104,000
captured.
Some commentators who have hitherto
accepted Russian statistics with great
politeness now adopt a more rugged atti-
tude.
Major General Fuller, a British critic
who ranks with Cyril Falls and Liddell
Hart, wrote in the U.S. Army edition of
American “Newsweek,” circulated in the
Pacific, on August 7:
On July 24 a special announcement from
Moscow informed us that in one month’s
offensive on the First Baltic and the First,
Second and Third White Russian fronts —
roughly half the total front —“more than
381,000 Germans were killed and 158,480
prisoners were taken.” If to these figures
were to be added the normal proportion
of wounded —namely, four to one killed —
then total German losses must have been
1,905,000. If this loss should represent one-
quarter of the German forces on these
fronts —and such a tremendous loss would
indeed be phenomenal—then they must have
numbered close to 7,620,000, which is pure
bunkum!
Then again, we are told with equal regu-
larity: “Our troops have fought their way
into more than 150 inhabited places ...
2000 inhabited localities ... 500 other in-
habited places, including seven railway
stations, etc., etc.” Fought their way into
them —bunkum! Because even from our
present experiences in Normandy we know
how long it takes to storm a small village
held by determined Germans.
On August 23 President Roosevelt told
Congress that Russia had lost 5,300,000
soldiers, -dead, captured or missing—
which means over 20,000,000 total casu-
alties “in addition to millions of
civilians killed.”
Bulgaria Germany’s Back Door
General Eisenhower has issued another
much-needed warning against underrating
the German army, “still competent and
effective, and able when it chooses to put
up a bitter and sustained resistance.” Per-
haps he had been reading what corre-
spondents wrote of the central Russian
front on July 29:
Having crossed the Vistula in force the
Red Army now has a clear road before it
across the central plain of Poland into the
heart of Germany;
or August 11:
The grim battle along the Germans’
straggling, inadequate line from Riga to
Warsaw is now swelling to its inevitable
climax —a decisive Red Army break-through
on the last approaches to the Reich.
Communications and defence positions
are now to the advantage of the enemy
in the east.
But the Rumanian front for the
moment is the crucial front. If the Rus-
sians can break through to the Bulgarian
border, a new complexion will be placed
on the war. Bulgaria, as often has been
pointed out here over the past two years,
is one of the two main doorways to Ger-
man defeat. It was the collapse of
defence in Bulgaria in the last war, after
the British-French-Serbian break-through,
which led to the German collapse. With
a gaping wound in his rear Ludendorff
realised that further resistance would
only end in Germany having to make
peace with Allied troops on the home soil
of Austria and the Reich. Then the
Western Front collapsed.


■ ■ : '
mmsm
MM
mm
■ ■ •
1
Tv
S vS><s yy
*m
/
/
> *
m
\
'■y.-y.-y.
s
t v.: -5s *
XS S
m
: ■:
tS# : : : : : * : S#!wSa
PDC
■ ;. A:-;-
iW>®.
mmmMmmM
m \
mmMM w$KSk ** i«
gPi - ,v. ■.-- V |v. Iv C f\ - w
-Amp * * **#
HOTEL METROPOLE
Bent, Phillip and Young Streets, Sydney.
m
lit
in
ii Hill
111
in
sllll
fill
ill
-
n
Modern high-cl?ss accommodation
at a moderate tariff. Hot and cold
water and telephone in all rooms.
Rooms with private Bathrooms
available. Meals at moderate rates
unexcelled cuisine—Dining Rooms,
Grill Room, Banquet Room and
Wintergarden, together with a first-
class orchestra.
ROOMS-ONLY RATES.
Single Rooms from 7/- per night
Double Rooms from 13/- per night
Telegrams, Cables and Wireless:
“METROPOLE.” Sydney.
Telephones; 8W2061 (9 lines)
86363 (4 lines)
SPORTING NOTIONS
(Conducted by "PILOT")
With fine weather, an attendance of
44,000, and a tote turnover of £138,615,
the S.T.C. had a most satisfactory meet-
ing at Randwick on Saturday. The club
is fortunate in working in such close co-
operation with the A.J.C. in every way,
and naturally there is a deal of specula-
tion as to how it will fare when it has to
stand entirely on its own feet.
Bearing on coming important handi-
caps Orderly’s (Duncan) win was the one
of most note. Third to Chatham’s Choice
and Bright Spot at the turn, he had the
race won at that stage, and scored com-
fortably from Boomanulla —whom he
met 81b. worse than Metropolitan terms
—and Neta Linette, who finished together.
Behind the place-getters only Lambeth
and Tidal Wave showed form suggestive
of a win in the near future.
Kingsdale, hot favorite for the Flying
Handicap, was never closer than fourth
at any stage ; Majesty, after making the
running to the straight entrance, finished
second last; and heavily-backed Moor-
land whipped in the field. Tribal (Mc-
Growdie) and Main Topic fought it out,
and though the latter led slightly a fur-
long from home the grey outstayed him.
They met on Epsom terms, and were
prominent from the start, though it is
possible early bustling told against Main
Topic. Shannon did very little better
than Majesty, but struck a lot of trouble ;
and while Industry, after being a long
way back, ran on better than most of
the unplaced division, an early welter win
for Fermanagh is a possibility if he keeps
sound.
Cape Solander Handicap running dis-
counted the prospects of Cragsman,
Bravo and Gay King in the spring set-
weight three-year-old races. Cragsman
had a useful lead at the straight entrance,
but faded right out, and after Tea Rose
had given place to Liberality and
Britannic (Mulley), the last-named was a
shade too good for Liberality. Victory
Lad, who commenced slowly* did well
to get fourth. Tea Rose ran her usual
good race. The winner, who is a well-
grown colt of class, is a half-brother, by
Golden Sovereign, to Royal Chief, a
Metropolitan winner. Laudus, who
looked well, was a disappointment.
Ability as a stayer gave the smart-
looking filly Silver Field (Weate) the
Three-year-old Novice Handicap. She
was not among the leading division at
the turn, where Prince Galahad, Wheat-
land and Winpar were most conspicuous,
but she scored by a half-head from Insol-
vent, who, coming from a long way back,
looked a winner 50 yards from home.
Eagle Hawk is speedy, as is Diamond
Jim, and Silent is coming on again.
Excuses were made for Marquis be-
cause he swerved out at the finish of the
Trial Stakes, but the honors of the race
were with the winner, Eastralia (Swinton),
who was a long way from the leading
division after going a couple of furlongs,
and then finished brilliantly on the ex-
treme outside. Oberon, in third place,
ran well, and Burlington showed his cus-
tomary pace. Skip Bomber, a strong
fancy, was not a possibility after being one
of the tail-enders after going half a mile.
Gold Edifice (Skelton) ran so well in
the race won by Rylstone a week earlier
that only for being ridden by a jockey
who is rarely seen in the saddle he would
have been in greater demand for the
Novice Handicap. He took charge at the
half-mile, and finished gamely to score
narrowly from Paul and High Note, who
were with him half a furlong from home.
Craigie, who was a bit slow in finding
his legs, was a fair fourth. Massena and
Cargeonel, backed as if the race was little
more than a match between them, did
not threaten danger in the straight. Brock-
well should be equal to a suburban win.
There were several possibilities at the
home turn in the Welter Handicap, but
though Rylstone led into the straight
Betza and St, Quentin (McGrowdie) were
well clear half a furlong from home.
There was little in it at the finish, but St,
Quentin fought on gamely to beat Betza
a head. Denton was a moderate third,
and Ron Rico, who could not get near
the front in the early part of the trip,
made up leeway in the straight to get
fourth. Code and Kurranulla led for five
furlongs, but were not in it at the finish.
Hopelessly placed soon after barrier-rise,
Our Barney did well to finish in the
middle of the field.
s$ * * *
San Martin furthered his Victorian
Derby and Cup prospects by winning the
second Morang Maiden Plate at Moonee
Valley on Saturday. He did not beat a
strong field, but won as he liked at his
first start since the autumn, and probably
will justify the V.R.C. handicapper’s high
opinion of him. At 7.6 San Martin is
rated best of the colts in the Melbourne
Cup. By St. Magnus-Asphodel, he had
raced only three times before Saturday
for seconds to his stablemate, Delina, in
the Sires’ Produce and Ascot Vale Stakes.
Val Curl followed up his Caulfield suc-
cess by defeating Hartnell and Irish Myth
in the Ailsa Handicap. Favorite at 5 to 2,
he dropped back last early, but led into
the straight, and went away to win by
almost three lengths. Connections now
consider him a likely prospect for the
Caulfield Guineas and Derby, but his sire.
Valiant Chief, was not a stayer, and some
keen judges doubt whether Val Curl will
get a mile and a half. He is not engaged
in the Cups. Hartnell finished brilliantly,
and the race should do a lot for Reperio,
who was resuming after a spell.
Tea Cake, whose principal spring mis-
sion is the Caulfield Cup, outstayed Hero
and Valentino in a close finish for the
Tullamarine Handicap, one mile.. He
has won up to 101 furlongs, but it is
debatable whether he will appreciate the
longer distance of the Cup. Tea Cake,
favorite at 9 to 4, had the run of the race
on Saturday, whereas several other run-
ners, including Simmering, struck trouble.
Simmering finished particularly well to
run sixth, and evidently this spring will
see her back to her best form. Domi-
nate, who has been heavily backed for the
Caulfield Cup, ran well while his condi-
tion lasted. In looks, he is a better horse
than this time last year.
Dark Felt, winner of the Melbourne
Cup last year, pulled up badly after finish-
ing last in the Macedon Welter. At the
time of writing his immediate future was
in doubt. Race was won by Ducal, 10
to 1, who finished better than in previous
races to beat Burberry and Busybody.
Ellipsis, a candidate for the Cups, held
off Contact and Huntingdale at the finish
of the Ngarveno Handicap, 13L, but the
minor-place getters had been forced wide
on the turn. Ellipsis carried 8.7 against
his Caulfield Cup weight of 7.10 and Mel-
bourne Cup weight of 7.11. Huntingdale
drops from Saturday’s 8.7 to 7.4 in the
Caulfield Cup.
* * * *
It was a shock for some early double
backers when owner C. B. Crowley with-
drew Flight from the Epsom Handicap,
but he probably did many of the public,
as well as himself, a good turn when he
took that step. Last spring, when not
specially trained for distance racing,
Flight won the Craven Plate and ran
second in the Derby. Now trainer Now-
land has the opportunity of concentrating
on the longer distances, and the difference
between 9.5 in the Epsom and 8.11 should
be a big factor in Flight’s favor. Of the
last seven mares that won the Metropoli-
tan five were previously unplaced in the
Epsom, and Solution and Jocelyn did not
start in that race. Maltine was a marked
instance of where a drop of a few pounds
made a great difference. Fourth in the
Epsom with 8.12, she ran away with the
Metropolitan—then a mile and a half —
with 8.4.
* * * *
Versailles’s first appearance this season
is naturally awaited with considerable
interest. He won a couple of races in
brilliant fashion last season, but was un-
placed with 8.2 when backed for the
Liverpool Handicap in April. Lord
Neith, who won with 8.0, is now giving
Versailles a pound. The 31b. difference
would not represent the beating Lord
Neith gave Versailles, and, applying
w.f.a. figures, the latter has no special pull.
Of course, being the younger horse, Ver-
sailles may have made much the greater
improvement. He has been working well,
and it would seem as if on that, more
than actual form, he is such a strong
Epsom fancy.
It is unwise to condemn any horse be-
cause of one or two indifferent runs.
Tribal is the latest case in point. Before
last Saturday it would have been difficult
to say of him “Great Epsom chance"’;
now it would be very hard to rule him
out. It is no certainty, however, that he
will again beat Main Topic, who, though
the grey outstayed him last week, will
be better suited by the extra couple of
furlongs. He is a proved stayer, and addi-
tional distance will give him more time
to settle down before the real bustling
commences. Moorland’s form was so
poor that it may be proved entirely wrong
at his next start or two, and it may be
the same with Derby candidates in Bravo,
Shannon, Majesty, Gay King and Vic-
tory Lad. Anyhow, the Rosehill Guineas
and Caulfield Guineas may tell us much
more about them than is known at
present.
V * * *
In Melbourne recently Lawrence was
reported to have been backed for £50,000
to win the two Cups double. The owner,
however, said he was not concerned in
the commission, and that the horse may
not start in either race. Success in
both is expecting a lot of him, as he has
9.3 in the Caulfield Cup and 9.1 in
the Melbourne Cup. If he should win at
Caulfield he can be rehandicapped up to
9.11 for the Melbourne Cup. The Trump
and Rivette brought off the two Cups
double, each with a 71b. penalty, but
that sent the former’s weight up to only
8.5 and the latter’s to 7.9.
Poseidon was a two Cups winner in
1906, but while he carried 7.5 in the
Caulfield Cup, he had only a pound more
in the Melbourne Cup, his A.J.C. Derby
win having penalised him for both. Skip-
ton won the second division of last year’s
Caulfield Cup with 9.2, beating Amana
8.4, but a rise to 9.9 kept him out of
a place in the Melbourne Cup, for which
he was originally weighted at 9.2.
Miscellaneous
Beaten for the second consecutive time
on Saturday Footscray fell off the V.F.L.
premiership ladder, leaving Fitzroy, Rich-
mond, Carlton and Essendon on it. When
Richmond arrived ’Scray had some
reason for optimism, but the Tigers, too
keyed up even to snarl, gradually took the
lead and stayed there to win 9.15-5.14.
None of the other leaders was chal-
lenged: Fitzroy 17.14-8.13 v. S’th Mel-
bourne, Carlton 23.28-8.12 v. Geelong,
Essendon 28.21-12.11 v. St. Kilda, Col-
lingwood 15.12-11.17 v. Melbourne, N’th
Melbourne 15.19-12-12 v. Hawthorn.
Footscray gets another chance, against
Carlton, next Saturday.
# * * *
With a reshuffled back line, Randwick
avenged a first-round defeat by decisively
downing Uni. 15-3, thus winning the
minor premiership. Drummoyne out-
played West to score five tries to three,
but Newsome’s boot and a thrilling last-
minute try by Millner clinched it for
West, 22-21. Randwick meets Uni. again
next Saturday. The winner will meet the
winner of East v. West. Other matches:
East 17, Parramatta nil; North. 17, St,
George 9; Gordon 23, Manly 9.
* * * *
Though younger, inches taller and
longer in the reach, Stan Wilkes was
languid compared with Jimmy Dundee
in nine rounds of the 12 they boxed
at Leichhardt. Dundee set his own pace,
and often seemed to land left hooks on
head or body at will. Dundee did not
win the last three terms by as big a
margin, but he won them beyond ques-
tion. “Draw.”
“Our best featherweight since Bert
Spargo,” is Melbourne’s opinion of Allan
Hall; and he certainly made an excellent
showing against Tommy Chapman at
Sydney Stadium. He most of the time
outboxed Chapman, but Chappie hit
harder and finished stronger, and the on-
test was declared a draw.
FOR RANDWICK.
(Before acceptances .)
By “PILOT.”
Three-year old Handicap: Acces-
sion, 1 ; Good Idea, 2; Cordiality,
3.
Hobartville Stakes: Vermeil, 1;
Tea Rose, 2; Shannon or Re-
moval, 3.
Warwick Stakes: Mayfowl, 1 ;
Katanga, 2 ; Flight, 3.
Campbelltown Handicap: Hall
Stand, 1 ; Nobleman, 2; John Hali-
fax or Warlock, 3.
Spring Handicap: Shining Night,
1 ; Craigie, 2 ; Lambeth or Tidal
Wave, 3.
Glenlee Handicap: Betza, 1 ;
Dick Whittington, 2 ; St. Quentin, 3.


Women's Letters
From Melbourne
All roads still lead to the Lawrence
concerts and the Ballet. Never has a
great audience been more stirred than the
one gathered to hear the diva sing the
night news came that Paris had been
liberated. As Marjorie Lawrence told
the news, cheering broke out. It was
stilled when she said “and now for the
Paris I know and love so well I will sing
‘The Marseillaise.’” Her voice was as a
clarion call to patriotism. Enjoying the
concert was Marie Burke. Looking her
usual elegant self she was greeting and
being greeted by old friends. She is to
leave Australia shortly for India, where
she will join Basil Dean’s concert party,
which goes to the Middle East to enter-
tain troops. Mrs. H. G. Connell, with
schoolboy son Barry, was also a listener.
Mrs. Connell’s second son, a lieutenant
in the R.A.N., has gone to England on
loan to the British Navy, and she had
received news that day of his safe arrival.
Her eldest son, John, a major in the
A.A.M.C., has won the M.C .
Now the referendum issue has been
settled life seems a little less serious. The
war news is improving, and people feel
easier in mind. Perhaps that’s why so
many uniforms go to the ballet. In a
recent audience were Colonel Sybil Irving,
A.W.A.S., Commodore and Miu. G. D.
Moore, Mrs. J. Burnett, Rory and Pat,
her sons, and Ann Foley, daughter of
Captain Foley, of the Navy Board. Mrs.
Burnett’s husband was captain of the
Sydney and was lost with that gallant
ship.
Drawings, paintings and sculpture
adorn the foyer of His Majesty’s Theatre
and all are devoted to the Ballet. Among
the drawings one of John Rowell’s is out-
standing. Bold of line, it catches the
very essence of ballet and is greatly
admired.
Making her first appearance since the
death of her husband, the Lady Mayoress,
Mrs. E. Campbell, hostessed a luncheon
party at the Town Hall to which the wives
of councillors and other solid citizens
were bidden. Set in the centre of the
Lrge reception-room was a sunken garden
of mauve, purple and pink cinerarias,
primulas and camellias, with a cypress-
tree in the centre. Around this garden
was placed the large circular luncheon
table. A guest of honor was Mrs. A. A.
Dunstan, wife of the Premier; and
among those present were the Bruche
lady, Mrs, A. W. Coles, wife of the
Federal member, Mrs. Charles Lane and
Mrs. Herbert Brookes.
In a happily-worded speech Mrs.
Campbell paid tribute to the help she had
received from the wives of the council-
lors, and also praised the work done by
them as members of the Town Hall
Patriotic Group. Several days a week and
all through the year the kitchens of the
Town Hall are filled with members who
make jams and pickles, cakes and scones,
which are sold to help patriotic causes.
Mrs. Campbell has undertaken the duties
of Mayoress owing to the continued ill-
health of the wife of Mayor Nettlefold.
She has proved a gracious and kindly
hostess, and many glowing tributes were
paid to her at the luncheon.
When Air Force House opened its
doors five years ago not even the com-
mittee responsible for its inception
dreamed of the future that lay before it.
Not only has it entertained thousands of
Australian airmen but Dutch, Chinese
and American fliers have found a wel-
come within its walls. With Mrs. J. V.
Fairbairn, widow of the one-time Air
Minister, as president of the committee
and such energetic and faithful workers as
Mrs. Alec Russell and Mrs. Grey Smith
as her aides, the accommodation has
grown in five years from 50 beds to 479.
Mrs. B. K. Matthews, in whose capable
hands is the management of the estab-
lishment, and Helen Krcrouse, her right-
hand assistant, are both loud in their
praises of the voluntary helpers who come
each morning to make beds.
In the July of the year in which Air
Force House opened, 4680 meals were
served. In July this year 16,355 meals
were served. A bed and shower cost
one shilling—though Air Force House
is open to all members of the forces only
airmen may sleep there. An excellent
meal costs only one shilling for three
courses, and the committee provides for
those wanting to write letters. The
women journalists of Melbourne, as their
war effort, maintain a library of over
1000 books. Magazines are also pro-
vided, and men from all over the Com-
monwealth may walk into Air Force
House and find a newspaper from their
part of the country.
The Victoria League has done its part
to make lonely men feel a little more
reconciled to absence from home. The
League installed a Hospitality Bureau on
the opening day, and if has been func-
tioning ever since. There is a roster of
hostesses, and at week-ends men are in-
vited to their homes. Amusements
are arranged and tickets provided for pic-
tures, skating rinks and radio shows. Ann
Church, a young Melbourne artist, has
decorated the walls of the canteen with
murals which depict scenes at a Spanish
Fiesta.
With the growth of the R.A.A.F. and
the exchanging and posting of men to
and from different States, Air Force
House has had to meet a steady demand
for more and still more accommodation.
At the moment it is being modernised
and enlarged to meet such demands.
Highlight of last week’s social doings
was the wedding of Constance Gepp (pic-
tured here) and Curtis Wilson at the
Unitarian Church, Eastern Hill. The
bride, third daughter of Herbert Gepp
and his lady, is well known in the circle
addicted to winter sports. Not only is
Constance an excellent skier but she
holds a license which permits her to pilot
a ’plane, and is also a graduate in com-
merce. Bridal array was a frock of
hyacinth blue worn under a deeper blue
taffeta coat. A tiny toque of blue and
burgundy feathers and a shoulder posy
of hyacinths in matching blues completed
the picture.
Curtis Wilson is a journalist and later
in the year the happy pair will go abroad
to make their home. A few relatives and
close friends gathered at Cliveden, the
home of the bride’s parents, after the
ceremony for cocktails and chat and the
usual good wishes. Among them was
Kathleen, sister of the bride, who for the
last four years has done splendid work
as publicity officer for the Red Cross.
Recently she took a trip up north to get
an insight into the work being done by
Red Cross workers in military hospitals.
At the wedding her smart frock was dusty
pink worn with one of her chic flower
hats. She knew only the night before
that her sister was to be married, so a
new hat was out of the question.
With the liberation of- Dutch New
Guinea it becomes the duty of the N.E.I.
Government once again to consider plans
for the welfare of the natives in these
districts. Native youngsters are due for
a grand surprise at the end of this month.
They adore toys, and on the day upon
which the Queen of the Netherlands cele-
brates her birthday they are to have a
party. As a large consignment of
painting books and pastels, picture books
and toys has been sent to them, a day
of rejoicing will be theirs. In Melbourne
on that day Dutch folk will get together
to sing the songs of their homeland and
express their loyalty to the House of
Orange.
Keith Macartney is always thinking up
plans to help good causes, and he has
able support from the Tin Alley Players.
Recently he produced Priestley’s “They
Came to a City” and it was so suc-
cessful that there is to be a repetition.
This time proceeds will go to the
funds of the Brotherhood of St. Law-
rence. Joy Youlden, in private life Mrs.
Desmond Connor, has the lead and does
the part credit. Ruby May, another pro-
fessional, is well cast. Des Connor as
stage manager is responsible for the light-
ing and for the original settings used in
the play. The Tin Alley Players take
the name from a right of way which sepa-
rates the University proper from the col-
Jeges associated with that seat of learning.
From time to time, efforts have been
made to change the name, but it
remains. Keith is a lecturer in English
at the University;
Lieut. Jean Kennett, of the A.W.A.S.,
was married at Christ Church, South
Yarra, to Colonel Haylord Enwall, of
the U.S. Forces. The friendship which
led to the altar began two years ago. Jean
will remain at her war-time job.
From Sydney
In August the sun shines brightly on
Paris, and never has it shone more brightly
than in August, 1944. So it must have
seemed to the inhabitants of the French
capital. The Germans who had covered
the city like some grey and festering scab
for four years were on the run. Paris was
liberated. Her own soldiers marched
through her streets. How the gargoyles
on Notre Dame must have laughed! How
the chestnuts on the boulevardes sweep-
ing out to Passy, how the tall trees in
the Luxembourg gardens must have
shivered with delight, the fountains
sparkled in the sun! It was grand news
to the world.
The tricolor flew proudly in Sydney,
and French residents laughed and cried,
and prayed with thankfulness —the steps
of St. Patrick’s on Church Hill became
even a little more dented by the feet of
Frenchmen and -women bringing their
gift of grateful hearts to its altars. There
were more material expressions of joy.
French people gave little parties of con-
gratulation. Toasts were drunk. There
seemed to be a glass of champagne for
everyone (nearly 200 bottles, it is said,
were emptied)., France’s Minister Roger
Monmayou invited all French residents to
come and rejoice with him at the French
Naval Club, This was probably the most
democratic party of all, and here the
heart bowed down for so long was up-
lifted with the wine of laughter, not to
speak of some really good champagne.
The toast was France!
Sydney’s Mayoress is picking out her
prettiest bonnet and Mayor Bartley is
putting in an extra half-hour polishing
up his seal of office in readiness for the
arrival of singer Marjorie Lawrence. In
the civic drawing-rooms the Australian
prima donna will be welcomed at a re-
ception to which all our noblest and best
have been bidden. With Melbourne
clamoring for still more concerts the
singer leaves the south to keep concert
dates in Sydney. Her season at the Town
Hall will commence on September 5.
Lord and Lady Wakehurst will be present
at the concert on September 16.
Gloria Noud, one of Sydney’s notable
girl pianists, pictured here, is out to help
Peter Dawson win the Pin-up Man
competition being run for the Anzac
House fund. In this cause on Friday
next Gloria will play a programme
of Beethoven, Chopin, Debussy, Scar-
latti and Liszt at the Macquarie
auditorium in Phillip-street. She is
a graduate of Sydney Conservatorium,
and has plucked her Performer’s and
Teacher’s diplomas. Terence Hunt will
lift his baritone, and Jean Esmond will
play the accompaniments at this recital.
Eugene Ormandy’s return to Sydney
was unheralded and unsung. No milling
mobs of beauteous females flung them-
selves sobbing with joy at his feet. No
maidens lurked beneath his table pal-
pitating for him to sign their autograph
books. There was no armed guard. It
would have been a nice gesture on the
part of Sydney’s music critics if one of
their number had composed a catch or
glee with which to serenade the great
musician. But, no, nothing! There was
not even a laurel wreath handed up to
him at the orchestral concerts wherewith
to circle his brows. How different a re-
ception from that given to film star Bob
Hope, who so lately flashed as a meteor
across Sydney’s firmament!
Bob and his train were almost wrenched
limb from limb in the ecstasy of this
city’s greeting. Sydney might have been
Woop Woop with a train passing through
once a week from the way the citizens
surged agape around the group of screen
actors. Provosts guarded them even
in their sleep. Marie Antoinette, to be
sure, also was guarded during the long
night. But that was for fear she’d cut
and run. Did not a soldier on guard, one
night when the poor queen could not
sleep, offer to come in and talk to her to
help pass the time? But, anyway, what
were Provosts guarding these visitors’
rooms for? They said themselves they’d
thrown away their three cases of Scotch
when their ’plane had made a forced land-
ing in Laurieton.
The Ninth Symphony of Beethoven
was the great work of last week’s orches-
tral concerts. Eugene Ormandy was the
conductor. The Town Hall was replete
with Sydney’s musical gourmands and
gourmets, sprinkled with critics. The
little conductor, so tireless, so coaxing, so
vibrant in his unleashing and subduing
of sound, so to speak, reaped the whirl-
wind, rode out the storm and triumphed
in a sort of golden glory. An absolute
typhoon of applause threatened to over-
flow and submerge the stage. In partner-
ship with the symphony orchestra was
the Hurlstone Choral Society, and choir-
master Vivian Peterson was brought for-
ward by conductor Eugene to share the
plaudits.
Following tradition the ladies of the
choir were all in white, but soloists Thea
Phillips and Evelyn Hall put a dash of
color into their raiment. Thea’s frock
was of deep delphinium blue, Evelyn’s
had gold stripes on white silkiness. Both
singers managed to look cool and com-
posed (even through the long ordeal of
sitting waiting for their innings) and sang
like angels. William Herbert and Harold
Williams proved themselves vocally equal
to such heavenly company. The U.S.
Consul-General, Ely Palmer, and his wife
brought a party. In it were U.S. Minis-
ter Johnson and Mrs. Johnson, the C. L.
Jones couple and Mrs. Eugene Ormandy.
The Allied entry into Florence has been
a cause for special thankfulness to at
least one Australian family. Word has
been received from Mr. E. W. D. Ten-
nant, 0.8. E., of London, that near the
Flower City a British officer friend met
the Marchioness Clarissa Torrigiani,
eldest daughter of the late General T. H.
Fiaschi, D. 5.0., V.D., veteran of the
Boer War and the Great War, and sister
of Dr. P. Fiaschi, Phillip-street, Syd-
ney, who served throughout the Gallipoli
campaign and then in France till he re-
ceived his Anzac leave. The Marchioness
had been imprisoned by the Germans for
assisting British prisoners of war to
escape, and her house suffered some
damage. However, the officer was able
to report her in good health.
The Art Gallery at Anthony Horderns’
will be a serenade to spring tomorrow
and Friday. Sweet-peas and daffodils,
Iceland poppies, carnations and gerberas
will sing high, sing low to the minds of
the garden lovers attuned to such music.
Nor will the kitchen front be neglected.
Handsome cauliflowers and cabbages,
emerald peas and rosy carrots will show
how the underground movement flour-
ished in their kingdom. Champion
ribbons will bedeck winning flower and
vegetable. The Davidson lady will open
the show, which will benefit the Austra-
lian Comforts Fund. A silver coin is
the charge for admission.
The coming of Eugene Ormandy to
Australia has unlocked the door of
further and maybe richer study to Claire
Simpson and Allison Nelson. Claire, a
young Sydney violinist, and Allison, an
even younger Adelaide pianist, have been
granted scholarships to the Curtis Insti-
tute of Music in Philadelphia on the
recommendation of Eugene. Claire, one
of a musical family, came to Aus-
tralia from Maoriland with her parents
and sisters just previous to the outbreak
of war. She studied at Sydney Conser-
vatorium with Florent Hoogstoel as her
teacher. Allison is the 16-year-old who
played with the Sydney Symphony
Orchestra at the opening concert of the
Ormandy season.
Melbourne violinist Elise Steele is to
give a series of sonata recitals with
Sydney pianist Winifred Burston, at
the Conservatorium commencing Tues-
day, September 5. Seldom-heard works
by Mozart, Strauss and Debussy
should give the programmes unusual in-
terest. A sonata by Australian composer
Margaret Sutherland will receive its
second performance. This work was first
played by Elise in association with
the composer several years, ago. When
war broke out she was staying in Basle,
Switzerland. After her return, she was
leader of the Melbourne A.B.C. Sym-
phony Orchestra for some time.


Help Australia control the spread of Tuberculosis—the enemy
■within our gates! Support the Anti-T.B. Association in its
£50,000 Appeal. In N.S.W. the Association has helped nearly
130,000 sufferers in 10 years. Give generously now! Send con- %
tributions to the Honorary Treasurer, 33 Macquarie Place, Sydney,
The I Anti-T.B. £50,000 Appeal
WRITHED IN PAIN ON FLOOR
Bus Driver’s
Incredible Escape
Sufferers from Lumbago, Scia-
tica, Rheumatism or similar
complaints, can gain new heart
from this remarkable experi-
ence of a young bus driver.
Mr..Walgers’ own words state: “I
was doubled up, and could hardly
walk, and sleep was out of the
question. I could not bear to lie
in bed and many times I would
fall to the floor and writhe in pain.
“After the first packet of R.U.R. I
began to get relief, and could at
last stand up straight, and sleep
returned to me. I then took a
course, and can honestly say I
have not one pain left. I am back
at work again, and can even dig
in the garden. I now take R.U.R.
twice a week, and am feeling my
old self again.”
A NATURAL
INTERNAL CLEANSER
R.U.R. clears the body of poisons,
acids, and wastes. These poisons
and acids cause the unbearable
pains of rheumatism, neuritis,
lumbago, and sciatica ... the dull
eyes and muddy skin of liver
troubles ... the headaches and
half-asleep feeling of constipa-
tion, as well as the pain of kidney
troubles . . . the unpleasant,
“Can’t-eat-a-thing” feeling of
indigestion and gastritis. R.U.R.
gently reaches every eliminative
organ of the body, cleaning out
wastes and poisons, toning liver,
kidneys, stomach, and bowels to
normal function. R.U.R. ENDS
constipation, but forms no habits.
Harley St. Prescription
R.U.R. is de-
Geo. V. Walgers, 104
Queen’s Road, Five
Dock, N.S.W.
rived from a
Harley Street
Specialist's
prescription.
Many users
say that they
obtain real
benefit from
the very first
dose, and re-
port remark-
able restora-
tions to health
from disorders
listed above.
When you realise that R.U.R.
costs but 4/- a packet to make 26
ounces of active mixture and 7/6
to make 52 ounces, it is no exag-
geration to say that R.U.R. is by
far the cheapest and most effec-
tive treatment you can use.
Take R.U.R. and Right You Arel
Divorce Notices.
lIS' THE SUPREME COURT OP nW~SOUTH
WALES—In Divorce.
TO JOHN REDMOND NOLAN.—TAKE NOTTf'P
that SARAH RUTH NOLAN has filed a Petition for
Divorce No. 2611 of 1944 on the ground of desertion
without just cause or excuse for three years and un
wards You may enter an appearance at the Divorce
Office Supreme Court King Street Sydney by the
Thirty-first day of October 1944 and obtain a conv
of the petition from JOHN CORCORAN & CO Soli
citors Assembly Hall 2 York Street Sydney —ft « ,
C. K. BODY, Registrar in Divorce. J
IN THE SUPREME COURT OP NEW SOUTH
WALES —In Divorce.
TO PRANK ELIJAH HERMANN JAMES POLLIT7FP
HELMRIOH.—TAKE NOTICE that RITA DOROTHY
HELMRICH has filed a Petition for Divorce No. 891
of 1944 on the grounds of desertion without just
cause or excuse for three years and upwards If you
wish to defend you may enter an appearance in the
Divorce Registry, King Street Sydney before the
Twentieth day of October One thousand nine hunlred
and forty-four and obtain a copy of thhe petition
without charge from A. J. McLACHLAN HOARE k
CO. 6 Wynyard Street Sydney.—(l.s.) C. K. BODY
Registrar in Divorce.
Legal Notice.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF WESTERN AUS-
TRALIA — Estate Rose Chloeicb McKay Deceased
NOTICE TO CLAIMANTS.
PURSUANT to order of the Supreme Court of Wes-
tern Australia made in a suit (T. No. II of 1944)
intituled “In the matter of the estate of ROSE
OHLORIOE McKAY late of 11 Alvan Street Mount
Lawley in the State of Western Australia Married
Woman deceased intestate and in the matter of the
rules of the Supreme Court Between THE PER-
PETUAL EXECUTORS TRUSTEES AND AGENCY
COMPANY (W.A.) LIMITED Plaintiff and GEORGE
McKAY and others defendants Whereby the follow-
ing enquiry was directed namely.—Who upon the
death of the avove-named Rose Chlorice McKay in-
testate on the 11th day of August 1942 became bene-
ficially entitled as next of kin to share in the pro-
perty and estate of which she died possessed and in
what shares and proportions and if any of such
persons are since dead having a vested share in her
estate who are their legal personal representatives
NOTICE IS HEREBY GIVEN that all persons claim-
ing to be entitled under the said enquiry as next of
kin of the said deceased or otherwise or as the issue
of JEREMIAH LODGE late of Heckmondwike
Yorkshire England or of MARY and FREDERICK
OOKLBY late of Skelmonthorp Yorkshire England
and of Scotsdale Tasmania Fitzroy Victoria and
Penola South Australia ARE on or before the 15th
day of January 1945 to send by post prepaid to the
above-named The Perpetual Executors Trustees and
Agency Company (W.A.) Limited 93 St. George’s
Terrace Perth Western Australia their full/Christian
and surnames addresses and descriptions and full par-
ticulars of their claims and in default thereof they will
be peremptorily excluded from participation in the dis-
tribution of the estate of the said deceased Claim-
ants must attend personally or by their Solicitor
before me at my Chambers Supreme Court Perth
aforesaid on Friday the 30th day of January 1945
at 10.30 o’clock in the forenoon the day appointed
for hearing and adjudicating on the said claim*
Claimaint not residing in Western Australia must
with their particulars of claim aforesaid send the
name and address of a person in Perth Western Aus-
tralia to whom notices can be sent. —G. J. BOYLSON,
DOWNING & DOWNING, 37 St. George’s Terrace,
Perth, in the State of Western Australia, Solicitors
for the said Administrator.
STRONGER... LIGHTER ...LONGE R LASTING
(3ioMe
Under war condi-
tions, only occasional
manufacture is pos-
sible, but Globites
will be supplied
whenever =vailshle.
xcv
MOTOR & AVIATION SPIRIT
CH
m
EX
KEROSENE
■■l
CM
m
EX
—I
■
LUBRICATING OILS
CH
m
EX
EX
m
CM
The long history of
pioneering, embrac-
ing every major de-
velopment in the
Petroleum Industry
is climaxed by the
high-grade Caltex
products available to
every user of Mech-
anical Transport,
JF YOU WOULD MAKE SURE
INSIST ON
CALTEX PRODUCTS
CALTEX LIMITED
ADVISORS ON ALL IMPORTANT PROBLEMS
OF PETROLEUM USAGE AND LUBRICATION -K
IN ALL ITS PHASES
SMOKE-OH!
“She rose on the wings of her indignation
and began to walk about.”
— “Women’s Weekly” story.
Not a feather to fly with, apparently.
4* 4* 4* 4*
A man feels that he’s a match for any-
thing when he’s lit.
4* 4* 4* 4*
“The room was sparsely furnished, in the
modern way, for the reception of guests with
divans, chairs and an odd small table or two.”
— Serial.
All welcome!
4» 4* 4* 4*
“I knocked my shin on the leg of the chair,
and now I can’t get it to heal.”
—Correspondent in magazine.
Try rubbing it with furniture polish,
4* 4* 4* 4*
“Though my husband never spoke to me for
two years, he always followed my movements
with a derisive stare.” — Divorce report.
Some think it is defamatory diction
That usually starts domestic friction;
But in this case, although his tongue
derided
His missus not at all, she says his eye did.
F. M.
4* 4* 4* 4*
Technique.
“You should go out with men as often as
you are asked, but never let them see you are
in a hurry to marry.”— “D.T.” letter.
True, even though your mirror tells you
it’s a race against time. However, there’s
no need to wait for a second invitation
to go out —just say “Until next Satur-
day?” in a low, thrilling voice when you
.say good-night. If he replies “Er —well,”
get in quickly with “I’ll call you.” (If
you ask him to give you a ring he may
misinterpret it and shy off.)
It is generally considered bad tactics
to linger at shop windows displaying
wedding apd engagement rings until, at
the earliest, the third time you are out
with him.
Never show jealousy of a prospective
rival. Let him see how little you care by
merely dropping hints about her past and
bits of gossip about her present. Make
sure, however, that you are hanging on
to his other arm if they show any signs of
going out of your sight together. Do this
also in an abstracted way, as if you didn’t
notice.
When saying goodnight at the gate
don’t throw your arms round his
neck. Let your head fall back a
little, and sway gently on your feet,
moaning slightly as you do so. He
may think you are going to faint and
catch you in his arms himself. If not,
try stumbling against him and then gaz-
ing up at him wide-eyed with slightly
parted lips as you hold on to him for
support. Practise this at home —any hall-
stand with a mirror attached will do.
If all your little artifices fail to over-
come his natural shyness, you have one
resource left. Invite him in for a piece
of seed-cake and a glass of lemonade,
embrace him as soon as you hear foot-
steps approaching the door, then turn and
face your father with shining eyes.
My wife’s father weighs 17 stone, which
did a lot to overcome my natural shyness.
Plum.
4* 4* 4* 4*
“All this talk about Mr. Dunstan is just an-
other red herring across the track to try to
bolster up the case.”
—Letter in Melbourne “Age.”
Just a bedtime story, and a fishy one
at that.
•I* 4* 4* 4*
“Peter first met Mabel when she served him
with some collars in the department store where
she worked. They were married a week later.”
—Short story.
This tie-and-collar girl showed vim,
It cannot be denied;
For after she had collared him
She quickly had him tied.
F. M.
4* 4* . 4* 4*
“Nobody seemed to want the third floor of
the spacious building. It lacked the con-
venience of the lower floors, and the views
of those above. It was still unlet.”—' “Sun.”
A problem storey,
4* 4* 4*
It’s very unfortunate that some of these
little ducks have such big bills,
4* 4* 4* 4*
“A woman’s mind becomes cramped with
nothing.”— Woman’s mag.
But she can give pieces of it to her
husband.
4* 4* 4* 4*
“A recently-made widow used to keep a
scrap-book specially devoted to her husband’s
deeds and misdeeds.” — Weekly paper.
But she was always turning over a new
leaf.
4* 4* 4* 4*
Slightly Mixed.
“The bitter pill with which the politicians
have gilded this unimportant concession makes
clear the lengths to which trickery will go.”
—Suburban paper.
Continuing, the article said that while
it was difficult to see what was behind
such transparent chicanery, it certainly
had the effect of taking the sugar-coating
off the gingerbread. Democracy, if it
were to survive, must have its feet planted
firmly on the soil of co-operation. How
otherwise could it soar on proud pinions
into the empyrean of true freedom? The
heavy iron shackle which the bureaucrats
sought to fasten on the hearts and minds
of the people, and which sat like an ill-
fitting garment on the body politic, would
need to have its teeth drawn unless the
people were to barter away, like a sheep
to the slaughter, what remained of their
priceless heritage.
Nobody expected that, in, such a world
as we lived in today, men could lightly
come, like Andromeda to the rescue ot
Pamnn tn off pvprv nossible inhibl-
jjamon, to cast on every possioic in
tion. Nevertheless, if the arrogance or
the people’s paid servants was once
allowed to get a stranglehold on the
throats of their masters, only a cataclysmic
national upheaval would put the brake
on and carry the barque of State gliding
over the shoals of emancipation to a safe
anchorage where the juggernaut OI tear
could be driven for ever underground.
, r- , ~ .
where its fiery breath could no longei
chill the hearts of liberty-loving men
everywhere or again turn the full-blooded
wheel of independence full circle.
The time had arrived, the article went
on, when the forces of Progress, strain-
j n! r imnatienflv at the leash would find
mg impaiienuy at me ieasn, wouia nna
themselves grafted to a poisonous tree ot
foreign growth if steps were not taken
f , , t— nr—<
immediately to ensure that the Four Free-
doms were embraced. The bloated figure
nf Antbm-itv if not banrllpfl with the
or AUtnonty, It nor Handled Wlin me
keen-edged rapier of the people S rights,
would pvpntnallv hp ucpH as the thin end
would eventually oe used as me mm end
of the wedge to gag untrammelled speech.
Under the rule of the bureaucrat the
unuer me ruie o me outeauLiat uic
democratic way of life was being com-
pressed more and more until, Phoenix-
f., . . ~ ■ • „ c
like, in skating over the thin ice Ot
Charybdis it had come to be in grave
dnnapr nf hpimr trumnlpcl undpr the iron
danger or being irampieu under me iron
hand of unscrupulous men who, though
tbmr fnnrllw thnnoht thpv had thp riuht
mey tondly mougnt mey nad me ngni
SOW by the ear, would hnd that the
hornets’ nest they had grasped was not all
... , . J
milk and honey.
It was unthinkable that the door of
disrnnfpnt vhnnlrl hp slammed once for
discontent Should DC Siammeq once lor
all in the same boat as the spirit ot unani-
lil-p comp hriaht star in thp
rnity WHICH, like some origin star HI me
blazing firmament, was at daggers drawn
with the bursting bubble of despotism,
r\ ij tE.it c-nriE
Une COUld say, in all iruin, rnai suen
conduct would be like giving a sprat to
pntrh n Tartar which like Simon Stvlites
eaten a 1 ariar which, mce onnon oiyiues,
was Oil the point OI leaping from the
frying-pan into the Lethean waters where
~, • j
Some enslaved puppet might arise and,
with the melancholy Jacques, say “To
to r\ Tcr-otUI” H
your tents, U Israel.
80.
Sympathy.
“Some scientists claim that even vegetables
have minds of a sort.” — “World’s News.”
A harmless pickled onion, reposing on a
plate.
Was dreaming of the happy days gone
by.
Apparently it felt no urge to sadly medi-
tate *
On horrid snares that in the future lie.
Up came a hungry human and seized a
fork which he
Inserted in that gentle onion’s heart.
Complete annihilation then followed
rapidly.
For he tore the poor defenceless thing
apart.
The sympathy I feel when I perceive what
humans do
To harmless pickled onions, so trusting
and so true,
Must surely be the reason why I get
pickled too!
T. W. NATHAN.


7/6 PAID FOR
ORIGINAL JOKE IDEAS.
THE OTHER FELLOW'S MIND
The contributor placed first is paid
4|d. per line; all others per line.
The Decay of Manners
While on leave I was persuaded to
accompany my wife on a shopping expe-
dition to Perth. Remembering pre-war
experiences, when my role was that of a
pack-camel, I thought I knew the worst
that was in store. I was wrong. Before
the morning was half sped I had passec
through every state of mind from blin
fury to black despair.
Insolence, inattention and inefficienc
met us wherever we went —in buses
shops and restaurants. To me it was
revelation of a new and very ugly spin
that appears to have pervaded civilia
life. Courtesy is dead and boorishnes
rampant. Ordinary politeness is “pansy
stuff.
This attitude is blatant in shops
where assistants of both sexes and a
ages find it impossible to give service un
accompanied by insults. In a store wher
for years my wife has done the bulk o
her household shopping we stood wearily
waiting at a counter until one of a trio
of young females (average age 17) deignec
to ask what we wanted, and she radiatet
malevolent triumph when she snapper
“Got none!” Without wasting time to
inquire whether she could serve us further
she scampered off to rejoin her sniggering
companions.
Is this behavior a foretaste of the New
Order we are fighting for? If so, I for
one want none of it. It is beyond my
comprehension how some of these
murderers of good manners, these rugger
individualists, have escaped having har
their noses pulled. The public is very
patient.— Lomond (W.A.).
Commos at Universities
Replying to Mr. Hollway’s description
of the University of Melbourne as “a
nursery for Communists” (B. 2/ 8 / ’44),
spokesman for the Students’ Representa-
tive Council said it was no more a nur-
sery for Communists than a nursery for
Conservatives.
Of four main societies at the Univer-
sity, the Conservative Club, the Newman
Society, the Free-thought Society and
the Labor Club, the first and second
are obviously anti-Communistic in
their views. The third leaves politics
alone and sticks to questions of
a social and moral nature. The Labor
Club president has stated that he person-
ally is not a Communist and that if there
are any Communists in the Labor Club
they are definitely in the minority.
Whilst appreciating the distastefulness
of Communists making capital out of the
situation, I still think that the University
should uphold the principle of freedom
of speech, one of the basic principles for
which we are at war. — Maxwell J.
Jordan (Vic.).
Protest
As one who has inherited an affection
for The Bulletin from his father, I have
been disappointed by a trend which 1
have noticed of late —a tendency to
portray the officer in story and joke as
an ineffectual and inane blunderer.
Admittedly, full credit is given to com-
missioned leaders in your Serviceman
pages and editorials, and you may counter
my charge by saying that anyone intelli-
gent enough to choose The Bulletin as
reading matter would not be influenced
by something that is meant as fun, but
the fact is that many thousands of soldiers
Who do not read the paper do read the
jokes and possibly the short stories.
Officers, of whom you will have gathered
I am one, have had enough trouble in
countering the influence of “Smith’s
Weekly,” which makes a feature of the
indiscipline, discourtesy and slovenliness
Which is so humorous in its eyes.
I refer you to “The Jap Barge” (B.
26/7/’44) and “Wog’s” drawing (B.
19/7/’44) as two examples most recently
to hand.
As I have found them, officers are not
tools, nor do men generally need en-
couragement from periodicals to act in
undisciplined manner. I refer you to
the Red Page (B. 2/8/’44); “It was not
the undisciplined Australian of popular
legend but disciplined Australians who
held Tobruk.” That is my point.—Lieu-
tenant (A.1.F.).
Mental Cases
“Mentally sick ex-servicemen in Goodna
(Q.) mental hospital are receiving callous
and inhuman treatment from the
Commonwealth Government,” states
the secretary of the United Council of
Ex-servicemen (O. M. More). He con-
tinues: “Men who were sane when they
enlisted and were certified insane after
sometimes long periods of service have
been refused pension rights. The Public
Curator has the right to deduct 255. a
week from whatever they possess for their
upkeep. If they have no assets this charge
can be levied on their parents or nearest
relative.”
What a deplorable state of affairs!
Sydney acquaintances recently billeted
with me whilst they visited their son, a
Digger of early 1940 vintage, a veteran
of M.E. and New Guinea, whose bomb-
wrecked nerves had earned him accom-
modation at Goodna. He had been a per-
fectly normal lad, and even now realised
his awful predicament. His surroundings
“But his wife's busy with her first-aid class.”
and the unsatisfactory nature of the
accommodation had destroyed all chances
of his making a speedy recovery ; in fact,
the environment was proving harmful.
It seems to be nobody’s business to
prosecute the pension claims of these men
and fight for their just repatriation bene-
fits. They are to all intents and purposes
forgotten men. I know of nothing more
pathetic than the sight of these mentally-
sick Diggers; I have seen them, and the
sight haunts me. — Aeram (Q.).
Ending the V.D.C.
The article on the V.D.C. (B. 9/ 8 / ’44)
is not quite fair to the Army Department.
The V.D.C., till then an unofficial organ-
isation, was taken over by the Depart-
ment of the Army in March, 1942. All
members were then enlisted and given
army numbers. Any member discharged
was given the usual official form of dis-
charge. Members were issued with the
usual scale of uniform, except that they
got only one pair of boots and no issue
of underclothing. Each group head-
quarters carried a stock of cotton work-
ing-dress suits, which were issued to mem-
bers carrying out fatigue works. I never
saw members of my unit working in civi-
lian clothes, except in the office.
Members were not paid for Sunday
parades or week-end bivouacs, but for
schools of instruction lasting six days
and over full pay and allowances were
offered, with rations or cash allowances
as alternatives. A member doing a fort-
night or a month in school got every army
privilege except deferred pay. All this
was in force from March, 1942, onwards,
long before the August, 1943, election.
The question of “considerable cost of
units” probably refers to the full-time
staffs. A battalion carried a full-time
staff, captain and six other ranks,
costing £5O a week in pay and allowances.
These were appointed to organise the
show, get it going as a military organisa-
tion, and undertake certain operational
roles which cannot be discussed. This
work has been done, and is not recurring
work. The full-time staff can therefore
be reduced from seven to two or three
without loss of efficiency. The same
applies to brigade headquarters.—
P. C. M. (Vic.).
A Permanent Air Force
After the war Australia must maintain
a defence force of far greater strength
than previously. An early announcement
of proposed strength, conditions of ser-
vice and rates of pay should be made,
together with an invitation for applica-
tions for enlistment.
A recent questionnaire addressed to
members of the R.A.A.F. to assist in
post-war rehabilitation was regarded by
many as an unwarranted prying into
private affairs, and the questions were
answered without serious thought. One
question, not binding on either party,
asked if the member would care to trans-
fer to the Permanent Air Force. There
is little doubt that an extremely small
percentage replied in the affirmative,
though many thousands of young men,
highly skilled in the flying and mainten-
ance of aircraft, have no civilian calling.
Australia’s peace-time air force must
provide an attractive profession, and
there is no reason why it should not com-
bine training with such work as mail-
carrying, aerial surveys, fire-spotting, fly-
ing ambulances and medical services for
the outback. An immediate announce-
ment of policy might solve the post-war
problem for many young men and retain
for Australia the services, as airmen, of
men she can ill afford to lose. — Stanus
(R.A.A.F.).
Future of the N.T.
The truth about the N.T. is more
nearly approached by “Stanus” than by
“Brig” (B. 9/8/’44), who is too pessi-
mistic.
High transport and freight costs can
be blamed on the failure of the Govern-
ment to fulfil its promise in 1911 to com-
plete the direct north-south line. The
Territory is anything but a wilderness,
and given a fair deal, which it still awaits,
would prosper. It is true that a lot of
Commonwealth money has been spent in
the N.T.— i.e., wasted on non-essentials.
No resident has ever claimed that the
Territory is a paradise where one can live
without working, but they do all declare
that with efficient methods of irrigation
and water conservation it can become the
granary of Australia.
As a small instance, when Darwin was
provided with a municipal water supply,
practically every resident in the town
began growing his own vegetables, very
successfully, and planting fruit-trees.
The Territory could produce enough
coffee, upland rice, broom millet, tobacco
and peanuts (to mention just a few lines)
to supply all Australia. With up-to-date
harvesting and other agricultural machin-
ery the bogey of excessive costs could
easily be laid.
The fact that Territorians, com pul so r-
ally evacuated in 1942. are counting
the days till they can return, although
they know that they will have to begin,
again from scratch, is proof that the land
must be something more than arid desert.
To Territorians, the years they have been
compelled to spend in the south are years
of exile ; all their hopes, plans and desires
are for the day when once again they can
turn their feet towards the north. — Terri-
TORIAN (N.S.W.).
Water-power in M.L.
Despite the distractions of war (or per-
haps because of the need for more power
to drive munition-making machinery)
Maoriland goes on developing its water-
power resources.
Controversies that raged at the dawn
of the century, when many critics declared
that coal-power was cheaper than water-
power, have died down. The water-
power undertakings have given good ser-
vice, paid interest on capital and made
adequate provision for depreciation. They
even pay taxes.
Forty years ago less than 10,000
h.p. was hydro-electric. Today the
figure is about 500,000 h.p. Development
is proceeding in both islands—in the
North, on the Waikato River, fed by
mighty Lake Taupo. Along this river
seven or eight new power plants are
planned, but first the riverbed must be
cleared of obstacles. So, very early each
morning, the dam gates of Taupo are
closed, bulldozers and excavators swarm
into the swiftly-drained riverbed at dawn
and the work goes on until it is time to
let the waters flow again, so that the
existing great installations that rely on
Taupo may not lack power.
In the South Island the harnessing oi
the Cobb River (which gave a head of
1900 ft., the highest in the Dominion) was
finished in May. This will provide enough
power to serve the two not-very-industrial
provinces of Nelson and Marlborough for
the next 12 or 14 years.— Avon (M.L.),
More Education
No one decries the importance of edu-
cation. We freely admit that all must be
taught, and the fists start to fly only when
we try to decide what to teach them.
An academic background is inessen-
tial in many jobs, but it is not a heavy
load to carry, and one can always fall
back on it for relief from boredom,
assistance in new phases of the old job
or merely as a sort of hobby.
Hand-in-hand with the clerical side of
education, however, there must be a
lively training in manual skill, not only
to give added fitness for everyday life,
but to enable the boy to form a better
idea of what jobs there are. It may be
said that a lad having skill in and liking
for mechanics will be able to learn any
mechanical trade, but he will be, at the
least, more versatile if his hands and
brain are taught as much as possible
during the years when learning is so much
easier than it is later in life.
Many a garage-hand today would have
been happier and more usefully employed
if he’d seen a printing press a bit earlier
or a lathe.—W. Wilkinson (A.1.F.).
Teaching in S.A.
So far as the teachers are concerned,
S.A, has a worse record than any other
State. Pay, conditions of employment
and housing are bad. This is making
a band of earnest, conscientious citizens
bitter and disgruntled. Teachers seeking
adjustment of salaries have had their case
adjourned with sickening monotony week
after week and month after month, while
cement workers and others who might
strike if not placated have been attended
to.
One of S.A.’s most pernicious systems
is that of the junior teacher, boys and
girls of 16 or so without experience. These
boys and girls work for a pittance, frmi
which they pay their board. They are
sent out to country head-teachers, desper-
ately in need of a qualified assistant, to
take anything from one to three grades.
Parents of children so taught have just
cause for complaint, and the right to
demand better treatment. So, too, have
the head-teachers, saddled with an extra
burden.
In some cases children might almost
as well stop home. One harassed J.T.
had a habit of addressing his little grades
I and II as “You little swine.” And the
fault was not all his.
Conditions in this State are such that
young men of ability who are fortu-
nate enough to have wise parents to guide
them avoid the Education Department as
they would the plague. In the result
stocks of good teachers will become as
low as stocks of coal are now; and
they will be just as hard to replenish.—
Greenbottle (S.A.). ,


No Medals for Mother
mm
Vs,,
:
9K.
Her cares are many
her tasks beyond number.
Every hour, every minute
She is on duty—
She sees the children
of? to school
She makes the meals
She makes the beds—
and the ’planes!
Sees to the laundry
and the lathe.
Fills the shell—
and the shopping basket,
a tiring business
these days.
Cuts sandwiches
for her man
going on night duty—
and wakes at once
if her child
cries in the night.
Tired yet tireless,
She holds the fort
of the family;
the citadel
of the hearth.
She has no medals,
only the pride
of working and striving
beside her menfolk
in a great enterprise—
to save the homes
and the children
of all the world.
★ ★ ★ ★
The women of Australia are making
great contributions to the war effort—
not least of these is what they are
doing for Savings.
Save for Victory
Inserted by William Arnotf PtyLimited, Homebush, with
acknowledgment to "The Times/' London .
ANZAC HOUSE IS FOR ALL SERVICEMEN AND WOMEN. HELP BUILD IT.
