

4 Tl
iTL.Iv
GRAPE
The Bulletin
‘The Bulletin,” Vol. 65.~N0. 3337.
Wednesday, January 26, 1944.
Price 6cL
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newsoaner.
Seppelts
CHATSWORTH HOUSE.
HATS WORTH HOUSE, generally called the “Palace of the
U" Peak,” is situated near Rowsley, and is one of the standard
beauties of Derbyshire. At Domesday survey it belonged to the
Crown, and did not come into the possession of the Cavendishes
until the middle of the sixteenth century. The old hall was con-
structed partly by Sir William Cavendish, partly by his widow, Bess
of Hardwick, afterwards Countess of Shrewsbury. She believed
that she would never die so long as she continued building. Year
after year passed, and the work never stopped, until at last a ter-
rible frost came and threw the masons out of work, when she
languished and died.
Mary Queen of Scots was kept prisoner in the old house ; and
although the Earl of Shrewsbury was not a severe jailer, he was
sufficiently careful to frustrate a scheme for her release laid by
the two sons of the Earl of Derby. There are two magnificent
picture galleries, containing sketches and paintings by the OI
Masters ; in the billiard-room are some well-known works of Sir
Edwin Landseer, and the chapel and the State apartments are
ornamented with wood-carvings ascribed to the great English
master of that art, Grinling Gibbons. The Cavendishes were
originally a Suffolk family, and rose by law, in the person of Sir
John Cavendish, Lord Chief Justice of England under Edward
III; but they owe their great riches and grandeur to the shrewd-
ness and manoeuvring of the famous “Bess,” wife of Sir William
Cavendish, a favorite of Henry VIII. By the time of her death
(she lived to the age of ninety) she had amassed the vast possessions
which have made the Cavendishes one of the most influential
families in the Peerage. The Queen has twice visited Chatsworth—
in 1832 and 1843 —and each time planted a tree in the garden.


ILUmI
This Book FREE to YOU!
$7 011 s CORRESPONDENCE COLLEGE.
WO Russell Street, Melbourne
CUT HERE AND MAIL— -
Sen / d ’ mtho l lt obligation, your New Free
Booklet explaining how to Write tor Profit
advertised in the Sydney “ Bulletin ” P '
My Name ..
Cy Address
t>. 144
AGE
The Red Page
Marjorie Barnard's Stories.
The paradox... .Australians are predomi-
nantly city dwellers. The population is
concentrated in the few large capital cities
on the coast. But our literature is bush
born and bush bred. We think of the typi-
cal Australian as a bushman. The answer
to this is that, while our cities are not
so unlike other great cities of the world,
our bush is unique. It is the bush that feeds
and stimulates the national imagination,
even sight unseen. The explorers opened
the wonder book, and we have been
reading in it ever since.
The stories of Henry Lawson, which re-
main the pattern of Australian short
stories, came direct from the bush school.
Their lineage is clear. His genius accepted
and shaped a tradition, and in turn drew
its response from that tradition.
That is what Marjorie Barnard wrote
in Australian Writers Speak, published
some months ago. She is a writer who
has thought about her art: and that
alone is sufficient to distinguish her from
the bush school, for it’s certain that Law-
son never stopped to think very deeply
about what he was doing or where he
was leading Australian writing.
Like the Lawson story, the typical
Australian short story of today is—as was
pointed out here in the review of the
first Coast to Coast —essentially a
“natural” story: an observation of the
life of the bush. When it escapes the
doleful and sentimental aspects of the
Lawson influence and is based on the
more characteristically Australian tradi-
tion of comedy which Tom Collins and
Steele Rudd helped Lawson to estab-
lish, it has virtues so great that it would
be absurd to quarrel with it; realism,
color, warmth, humor, gusto —a vital
recreation and refreshment of the life of
the nation.
Nevertheless, before Marjorie Bar-
nard’s own short stories collected under
the title The Persimmon Tree (Clarendon
Publishing Co., Sydney) are assessed, it
should be realised that the typical Aus-
tralian story has severe limitations.
Even as a reflection of the life of the
bush it is limited; it covers the country
town and the struggling cocky’s existence,
but it evades the life of the big land-
owners.
On its rare excursions into the city, it
deals only with the slums. It is a tradi-
tion of the “workers” and of what the
English would call the “lower middle
classes.”
Again, it is essentially a masculine
story. Lawson s women are depressed
or nonentities. He wrote scathingly about
the ‘sex problem”: the ideal theme was
mateship,” friendship or hostility be-
tween man and man ; or, evading alto-
gether the clash of personality, the
struggle of man against the land.
Again, it is essentially an unimaginative
story: as was demonstrated here by com-
parison of recent Australian stories with
contributions to Horizon Stories and the
latest New Zealand New Writing.
And again, it is essentially an artless
story. The construction, that is, is
natural episodic; the style colloquial
Lawson had a natural style, admirable
for his purposes, which (allowing for its
harshness of tone) might be compared
with the natural poetic style of W H
Davies. It is unlikely that it ever' oc-
d f°i h '/ n the lan §uage could
deliberately be built into architecture as
Scott built it, or moulded into cadence
as Conrad moulded it.
“T? ni w U ° tat lr n ? om Marjorie Barnard’s
The Wrong Hat ’ will illustrate what she
has done; —
This was a beautiful room, large, high-
clmu / nd Serene ~ the sort of room cal-
culated to serve as a perfect background
S sfh r^ Vt T en - J 1 Was a P Ieasure just
to sit high above the crowded streets, the
saJeS’ the bargains, the Friday specials, in
perfect tranquillity. It was at once so
sedate and so reckless. She knew how
utterly rash and vulnerable that pearl grev
super carpet fitted right up to the walk
was Everything was silvery, oyster-colored
walls, grey woodwork, limpid mirrors
grey velvet curtains framing, like two great
pictures, the view across the park and St
Mary s Cathedral to the tumbled insurgent
skyline of King’s Cross and, to the left,
a blue bay of the harbor.
Only half a dozen hats were in sight,
poised on stands like young masts, elegant,
immaculate, nonchalant
Here is a story not of the bush, but of
Sydney; set not in the slums, but in a
fashionable hatshop ; not about men, but
about a woman ; not artlessly written,
but (allowing the clumsily-placed “was”
as a pardonable slip) built and cadenced
with deliberate care: and, if this par-
ticular story is realistic rather than
imaginative, the author’s Coast to Coast
story “Dry Spell” is a fascinatingly
imaginative allegory, Marjorie Barnarc
has reversed the Lawson tradition.
The word-pictures of Sydney scene
are the most attractive feature of he
book. There are few contemporary
writers who could say simply and natu
rally: “I was coming into the city along
Anzac Parade. It was late and quiet
Occasionally a tram passed, an empty
illuminated box, leaping on the rail
under a crackle of blue sparks. The tree
were black, and their leaves made a little
dry sound like ghostly butter-pats.” Anc
in “Dry Spell,” from which that quota
tion is taken, the blending of present anc
past scenes shows a rare comprehensive-
ness of mind, an ability to perceive the
city as a living entity: —
I remembered Macquarie Place, and had a
vision of it as it used to be, the three-
cornered garden, the giant Port Jackson
figs, dark against the pale soaring build-
ings, the zinnias, the cushiony buffalo grass,
the statue (I forget its original) declaiming
to the street, the anchor of the Sirius on
a pedestal, Macquarie’s obelisk in its bear
Pit... .In the early days l,he officers and the
higher officials lived round there. It was
their compound where the children romped
in safety, and in the evening the regimental
band played under those same trees, lovers
counted the southern stars between the
leaves, and the gaiety of exiles flourished
by candlelight.
Outstanding as this story is, good as
many of the others are and attractive as
are all the settings, The Persimmon Tree
as a whole is not quite as exciting as it
should be. Writers who deal with farm
life and the country town are working
in a romantic tradition of pantheism;
writers who deal with the slums—how-
ever grimly realistic they may appear—
are romantics presenting a romantic
foreign world for the entertainment of
the middle-classes; the writer who, like
Marjorie Barnard, eschews both these
romanticisms undertakes one of the most
difficult of all literary achievements.
T. S. Eliot tried it and did not quite
succeed in that underrated play The
Family Reunion, where he made the
upper middle-classes of England chat to
one another in iambic pentameters.
Charles Morgan is probably the only
contemporary writer who has succeeded
in making the middle-classes interesting to
the middle-classes. The problem is one of
intensity: without romantic background,
a character must be made not merely
interesting but intensely, overwhelmingly
interesting. Too many of Marjorie Bar-
nard’s stories are built on the theme of
frustration for the characters to have the
commanding interest of Charles Morgan’s.
Often the frustration is defied, even con-
quered, but a strong concluding para-
graph is not enough to bring vigor to
a story written throughout in a falling
cadence.
Two on Australia.
Uncle: Once upon a time, Willie,
there was a man called Captain Cook,
and in his little ship Endeavour ——
Willie: There are times, Uncle, when
you tend to repeat yourself.
Uncle ; I beg your pardon, boy. Once
upon a time, then, there was another man
called Captain Phillip, and at a little
place which he named Sydney Cove
Willie : If I am forced to speak plainly
to you, Uncle
Uncle: Hang it all, you little toad,
that is my favorite story. However, once
upon a time there was a man called Bat-
man, and, coming to the place we now
call Melbourne (though, of course, there
was no city there in those days), he said
“This will be the place for a”
Willie; Mark my words, Uncle, the
next man who tells me that chestnut will
be found in a sack in the Yarra. Surely
Mr. P J. Hurley has spared me that in
Ltd )? ustralia (Dymock’s,
Uncle: Luckily, Willie, I find that he
has not included Batman after all. But
he has told the stories of discovery, ex-
ploration, gold, wool, wheat, irrigation,
etc., and he has described the parks and
gardens of the capital cities.
1 .^ IL ,V IE: As 1 observ ed when Arnold
Haskell wrote The Australians, when
Marjorie Barnard wrote Australian Out-
line and when Charles Barrett wrote
Around Australia, the time has gone by
when anyone can excite in me a pas-
sionate enthusiasm by offering me 40,000
words or so about the history and the
geography of this enormous continent,
submitting those basic facts which even
the most backward of my schoolfellows
have known for years. Mr. Hurley, as I
perceive from his sprinkling of anec-
dotes (and as I already knew in any case
because he writes pars, for The Bulleti
and contributes to your noble contem
porary the Sydney “Morning Heralc
under the pen-name “Waratah”), lives
the Blue Mountains of New South Wale
and could write a most charming boo
if only he would localise it, telling wha
he has personally observed of the life o
the bush. If you are thinking of offerin
me In Search of Australia as a somewha
belated Christmas present-
Uncle: Tut, you tarantula!
Willie: Your manners are atrocious
You will never allow me to complete
sentence. I was going to say'that I wouk
pass it on to my small sister, my relative
in England or to the Allied Nations, al
of whom could read this pleasingl
written, excellently illustrated and pret
tily printed volume with the greates
pleasure and profit.
Uncle: I suppose, you little knob
tailed gecko or illcheljera, it is no us
asking you if you know that a certain
carab beetle of Australia has been known
to capture and eat small frogs?
Willie: Strange as it may seem
Uncle
Uncle : The giant goose of New Zea
land is extinct. Also the 25-foot goanna
that once roamed the wildernesses o
Queensland. Why should creatures o
such singular charm and beauty have" been
allowed to perish while such as you sur
vive? I suppose you also know that tom
tits have been observed to suspend their
nests from the walls of the eyrie of the
wedgetail eagle; that the crested bell
bird sometimes has hairy “processional’
caterpillars crawling round the rim of
its nest, presumably so that its young
may early become inured to the horrors
of six-day bicycle races?
Willie: If these facts are culled from
Charles Barrett’s Australian Wild Life
(Georgian House, Melbourne) I can only
say that
Uncle: A cassowary in north-eastern
Queensland, Mr. Barrett records, kicked
a small boy to death. I am inclined to
sympathise with the cassowary. I sup-
pose you also know that the deaf adder
is not deaf; that green tree-ants make
bridges from bough to bough of their
own linked bodies ; that the egg of the
giant earthworm of the Bass River Valley
is a tough, horny, oval-shaped object two
or three inches long ; that Mr. Barrett
believes in the existence of the giant
“tiger cat”; and that witchedy or witch-
etty grubs taste not unlike a scrambled
egg, but with a hint of sweetness?
Willie: How does Mr. Barrett come
to know what a witchetty grub tastes
like?
Uncle : There are some questions,
Willie, a man of delicate sensibility does
not ask. You may take it from me, he
always knows what he is talking about.
Willie : Strange as it may seem. Uncle,
I was not aware of any of the facts you
have just related to me. I may have
read them before if so, I had forgotten
them. I am fascinated by facts about
birds, beasts and bugs ; I invariably read
them with delight, forget them immedi-
ately and so read them with equal delight
whenever they are again presented to
me. I shall have much pleasure in ac-
cepting Australian Wild Life.
Uncle ; Unlike In Search of Australia,
Mr. Barrett’s charmingly written, splen-
didly illustrated and prettily printed
volume is specifically addressed to the
youth of Australia. I can imagine no
finer gift. But if you think I am going
to waste it on what Mr. Barrett has aptly
described as “a fledgling Podargus in a
rage, with round eyes glaring, beak agape
and head feathers all on end,” you have
another think coming. My Charles
Barrett library, already running into (I
think) some 979 volumes, is my most
treasured possession.
SUNDRY SHOWS.
Somewhat belatedly, a booklet of the
paintings of Peter McIntyre, the New
Zealand official war artist, found its way
to The Bulletin. McIntyre seems to
have been made to order for the job. The
reproductions of 32 of his paintings, relics
of the Crete, Middle East and Libyan
campaigns, published in Cairo, well merit
the tribute paid to them in a foreword
by General Freyberg. McIntyre, who was
transferred from an anti-tank unit of the
Second N.Z.E.F. when his talents became
obvious, has had European training,
including the Slade School. He’s a first-
class, all-round draughtsman — figures,
terrain, war-engines and all the smoke
and detonation of active operations come
to him easily—and he gets the spirit and
atmosphere of what he paints. His work
is vigorous enough to withstand translar
tion from color to black and white, and
the soldiers he limns have life and humor
to a striking degree. His sketch of Cap-
tain Upham, V.C., alone would mark
him as an accomplished portraitist, and
his pictures of Cretan and Libyan actions,
even when they incorporate
dive-bombers, tanks and other grotes-
queries of war, escape the aspect of un-
reality worn by so many of such essays.
The National Gallery of Adelaide has
some good recent additions. A wooded
“Hillside,” by Tom Roberts, is in his later
manner and a strong contrast to his
“Breakaway,” which is one of the Gal-
lery’s possessions. A drawing of St
Mark’s, Venice, by Boxall (just deadj
shows the firm grip that a training as
architect gave him. A little-known South
Australian is Stella Bowen, who studied
under Rose McPherson (Margaret Pres-
ton) but has been in London for the past
30 years; her “Embankment Garden,”
with Cleopatra’s Needle, is modern and
hard. The Gallery has acquired also,
through its advisers in London, two sound
Wilson Steejr landscapes. Recent exhibi-
tions are the Australian war artists and
a fine lot of prints and drawings, from
Rembrandt onwards, lent by the National
Gallery of Sydney.
“Cauboy”: Every now and then Brett Ran-
dall s Melbourne Little Theatre throws off a
new play with points about it, and of such
was “The World’s End,” by Reginald Berke-
teJb the English playwright whose “White
Chateau” got a rough passage over the national
radio network some years ago because of its
criticism of current values. In his new play
Berkeley gathers together a cross-section of Eng-
lish society, including a Minister of the Crown,
a woman physician, an archaeologist, a neuras-
thenic lady and three ex-service men of the
last war who make a living as itinerant come-
dians, and puts them into the bar parlor of a
country inn whose owner has aspirations for un-
earthing the antiquities of the island. A mys-
tenous Tibetan lama, a delegate to the League
of Nations, asks them to wish their dearest
wish, and at that moment the hostelry is struck
by something. In the next act they have all
realised their secret, silent ambitions, the M.P.
having become Prime Minister, the archaeologist
having written a great book, the barmaid having
become a film star and the innkeeper having
discovered a mine of buried Celtic stonework
which turns out to be as spurious as the
M.P. s talents as a statesman. In the final
scene the inn is disclosed in ruins, having been
struck by lightning, and it is explained at
Lngth that the actors have only dreamed
the fulfilment of their ambitions. A bitter turn
is given to the case of the neurasthenic, who has
actually realised her unspoken wish and been
crushed to death in the disaster. The Little
Iheatncians acted well for the most part.
Vernon George was good as the archmologi-
cally-mindcd landlord, Norman Tucker was a
self-conscious politician, and there was a touch
of nature in Dorothy O’Keeffe’s barmaid turned
film star. Lance Nicholls imparted vigor and
intelligence to his role of a ranting Scot re-
acting against the ruling classes.
At the talkies: —
From the moment when Monty Woolley
says to a rival department-store Santa Claus
in his incisive, scholarly tones “I think you are
Ae most revolting thing I have ever seen!” to
Jhe final fade-out when he quotes the Dickensian
Ims is a far, far better thing I do” as he
takes a wealthy old actress (played delightfully
by the stage star Sara Allgood) to his reluctant
arms for daughter Ida Lupino’s sake, “Life
Begins at Eight Thirty” (Sydney Century) is
bright comedy, depending—as did “The Man
Who Came to Dinner”- —on Woolley’s skill in
delivering an insult. Emlyn Williams wrote the
play, which is all the better for its serious
moments. “Across the Pacific” (New Tatler) is
secret-service fare, exciting enough and held
well together by the capable Humphrey Bogart.
“Corvette K-225” (Sydney State) is a stir-
ring sea drama comparable with “In Which
We Serve.” A simple story of brave men of
the R.C.N, and R.C.N-V.R. who protect the
Atlantic convoy life-lines, it has none of the
overdramatisation of Hollywood war pictures.
Ella Raines makes a brief but impressive ap-
pearance, and Randolph Scott excels as the
exacting corvette skipper.
“Salute to the Marines,” an M.-G.-M. fechni-
ciplor (Sydney St. James), is holiday stuff for
kids. Old Wallace Beery hogs the whole show
with his well-known act of a rough hombre
guaranteed to sob at sentimental moments.
“Curtain Raiser”: Seen at rehearsal
the Kirsova Ballet, which has opened a
season at His Majesty’s, Melbourne, isn’t
the impersonal affair that it is on a first
night. If a leading dancer’s shoes squeak
on a first night they have to go on pro-
viding an obbligato to the music till the
finish ; but at a rehearsal it may lead to a
long discussion between the producer and
the dancer on the shortcomings of shoe-
makers, Governments and bureaucracies.
After an apparently faultless performance
of “Swan Lake” a prop, man strolls on
remarking “The blooming bird made its
run a bit late, didn’t it?” It may also
happen that one may be lost in admira-
tion at the skill of the young dancer who
carries a tray with glasses and a bottle
on it through a complicated series of
gyrations without once disturbing the bal-
ance ; and then lose some of one’s
admiration when one sees the same bottle
and glasses remaining in their places
with the tray in the upside-down position.
One see ballet only in bits at a rehearsal,
but the bits seem pleasant. Paul Clemen-
tine and Peggy Sagar are highly compe-
tent. It is difficult to excuse the two
pianos, however, when that eminent con-
ductor M. Ioffe and a first-class orchestra,
which are serving the tripy purposes of
panto, at the afternoon sessions, should
be available for the ballet.


“TRUTH IN ADVERTISING”
■ s
mm
I
~i& -ie <TH€ (~>o VifuuA ''P/°
(Pm <r£ xt-eAxy ‘ n*. Ssx '6ou--cc
’THE SENIOR STORE’
/
; /
‘NV
k v
m
m
£
snail
L^im,
D ill Iff
‘s££W
BSP*
A .
S; i
*, •< ,U
V-nl-p 1
The story of the founding of a Colony is the story
of Pioneering in every detail of civilised life. After
the initial landings on a strange shore, after the
establishment of early settlements . . . then come
the Pioneers.
ANTHONY HORDERNS’, founded about thirty-
five years after the arrival of Governor Phillip in
1788, pioneered the development of the Colony,
playing a vital part in its expansion by supplying the
needs of its citizens, Anthony Horderns’ also pio-
neered the cultural life of the Colony by founding a
Fine Art Gallery in the Store. At the time, there was
no exhibition gallery in Sydney. For over thirty
years Anthony Horderns’ Fine Art Gallery has
promoted interest in Australian art and Australian
artists, besides furthering a cultural knowledge of
British and Continental art, and of Oriental art
treasures. The Gallery has also sponsored modern
art. The exhibition of 200 Impressionist prints in
colour, held a few years ago, made history, as it was
the largest of its kind held in the Commonwealth.
Anthony Horderns’ Fine Art Gallery is still to-day
at the service of our citizens. In days to come when
“Peace hath her victories no less renowned than war”
the Fine Art Gallery will delight in promoting all
that is lovely and beautiful in life; the Arts that are
the glory of a nation. fc
ifet »M ••• -• r./i.„ ....,...«. r**£**
"7 : J : .
w
h2A
mMmm M
0 J
I I I
m
m
i
»;4SMB«
warn
wm
;,A
«k
5381 Sw z%~ &
■' ** Iv.
4 -T **, ,v | »' *v -'
OAhjhudi st£ / 'iy -{kt JPadt. iHh.. iV- ifybPi
1912 ’
m* «•
fs bbS'
*£K:
;. ' •
m&»
II I
w
M
fjv '•
-5
OsuxjUt&l (9l{. 'fLux'iuijj Jnj 4iz 'icdz lik. W. J^i^eA
, 7 kXutj's QcJLxd! ' „.J
I
PHONE: M 2401 (DAY AND NIGHT)
BOX 2712 C, G.P.O., SYDNEY


WHAT ELSE IS THERE?
By MARGARET TRIST.
/ / I F I owned a piece of land as big
I as this I’d have a cow,” said Miss
j Lacey aloud as she fixed the large
enamel billy on the gate.
She leant across the gate, dreamily
figuring out things about the cow.
It was to be an extremely neat cow,
nicely patterned in brown and white, with
a glossy tail always in the right place and
a soulful look in its limpid eyes. One
could grow very fond of a cow .like that,
she thought, seeing herself tripping down
to it every morning with a three-
cornered stool in one hand and a shining
pail in the other in approved milkmaid
fashion; being for the moment a plump
wench with abnormally rosy cheeks
instead of a sparse spinster, dried beyond
repair by the rigors of forty-five western
summers.
Miss Lacey was the lady-help of the
Gerahty menage.
A flurry of door-banging and window-
closing came to her ears. “Ooh-ooh!
Ooh-ooh!” she called. “I’m at the big
gate putting the billy out. I’ll stay and
open it. Kathleen, bring my handbag
from the sideboard.”
“Come and get it yourself,” yelled a
girl’s voice ungraciously.
“It’s all right, dear,” cried Mrs.
Gerahty; “I have it.”
“That Kathleen! ” said Miss Lacey.
The garage door was flung open, the
engine of the car set running ; the head-
lamps shone out butter-yellow.
“Go on, get in,” yelled Dan Gerahty.
“I’m not waiting all night. Who’s it
wants to go to this carnival? Not me,
anyhow. Carnivals! Pshaw! ”
THE car leapt forward and thundered
down the track, jerking to a stand-
still in the middle of the road. “Hurry
on, 'there,” he roared.
“Oh, Dan” protested Mrs.
Gerahty.
Miss Lacey rushed breathlessly to the
waiting car.
“That brought her hopping,” cried Dan
delightedly. “See, Minnie. I told you
I’ve got a way with women.”
The car slid forward.
“Well, don’t try your tricks on Miss
Lacey,” said his wife placidly.
“I wouldn’t fall for any of his tricks,”
said Miss Lacey from the back seat with
spirit.
“Wouldn’t you now?” demanded Dan.
“Wait till one of these fine nights, me
lady.”
“Dan,” whispered his wife, “you get
her all embarrassed.”
“She likes it,” he whispered back.
“Strike me, Minnie, but the poor devil
has to have something in her life. She’s
got a mouth like a codfish and the
wateriest green eyes I ever saw. How do
you reckon her mouth grew like that?
Waiting for someone to kiss her, see, and
they never did. Now it’s stuck that way
for good. If I were a woman with a”
“Have you enough room in the back
there?” asked Mrs. Gerahty loudly.
“No,” answered Kathleen.
“Jenny’s sitting on me,” offered Peter,
“There’s plenty of room,” said Miss
Lacey. “Mr. Gerahty, there’s something
I’d like to ask you.”
“Go ahead. Don’t mind the wife.”
“Don’t you think we ought to have a
cow?”
“And who’s going to milk it?” he asked
cautiously.
“Why, I should, Mr. Gerahty. You
take it now; we get six pints of milk
a day”
“When you’re in business in a town
like this,” answered Dan heavily, “it
doesn’t do any good robbing anyone else
of business. Everyone to his own trade
is my motto. You have to look at it this
way. Miss Lacey. I buy a cow and start
raising my own milk. Good. Then the
milkman’s got a right to plant all his
relations, see?”
“That doesn’t follow, Mr, Gerahty.”
“Why not? All right. Let’s say that we
buy a cow. You’re looking after it.
That right?”
“Yes. Oh, yes.”
“Now, say that cow blows up. What
are you going to do?”
“Oh, Mr. Gerahty.”
“Now, say, again, it’s time the cow had
a calf. What are you going to do about
it?”
“Dan!” Mrs. Gerahty’s voice held a
note of warning.
“Are we going to this carnival or not?”
demanded Kathleen. “You’re driving
that slow.”
“Not as far as I’m concerned,”
answered her father. “I’d rather be
sitting with Miss Lacey on the woodpile
talking about cows.” But he accelerated
and they went more quickly through the
town, the wind sharp against their faces.
“No, I guess Hodges can still be the
milk people round here and I’ll carry on
with the undertaking. What I would like
to know is why there can’t be a Satur-
day night without me dragged out to a
carnival. What’s everyone so crazy
about carnivals for?”
“It’s the war effort,” answered his
wife.
“War,” said Dan, “always war. Seems
to me you can’t look round without
there’s a war. It fair gets my goat.
There’s many a good person who could
have died comfortable in their bed”
“Can’t anyone talk about anything else
but people dying?” demanded Kathleen
passionately. “Any more of it and I’ll
jump into the creek.”
“Don’t talk that way,” remonstrated
her mother.
“Oh, let the girl talk,” said Daniel
cheerfully. “Let her jump in the creek,
too, if she likes. There’s not enough
water in it to drown a rabbit. What do
you reckon’s got into her?”
“Too many funerals,” snapped Mrs.
Gerahty. “You’re mag, mag, mag all the
time about this one and that one. I
don’t see that anyone in your line of
business should bring his worries home
with him.”
' “Why not? A man’s got to talk
somewhere.”
| T was dark now, but lights were gay
* and plentiful in the little park, expos-
ing the stretches of worn-down grasses
and banishing shadows from between the
trees, flinging tatters of iridescence to
dapple the quiet waters of the creek
flowing beside it.
“The only time that creek looks any
good is when you can’t see it,” said Dan
as they went down the stairs from the
bridge.
The stairs were steep and rickety, and
a draught blew through them from under-
neath the bridge. Miss Lacey felt it curl-
ing under her skirt to fold itself clammily
above the tops of her stockings. It made
her shiver. If all reports were true, hell
itself was not such a sink of iniquity as
that shadowed, dank place beneath the
bridge. The things that went on there
just didn’t bear being told about.
The smell of dust and the scent of the
blossoming cedar-trees were heavy in the
air.
“It’s a good night' for a carnival,” said
Mrs. Gerahty.
“I like a moon myself,” remarked Miss
Lacey.
“Kathleen,” said Dan sharply, “if
you’re monkeying around in the dark
with those young men of yours, keep your
eye out for snakes.”
Kathleen maintained a lofty silence.
“And while I’m about' it,” continued
her father, “you just take my tip and
keep away from young Brownlow. He’s
up to no good. That family’s all the same.
Don’t say I don’t know. I used to go
out with his dad’s sister before I met
your mother.”
“Stop bawling at the top of your voice,”
said Kathleen.
“Who?” demanded Dan.
“You.”
“Is that the way to speak to your
father? Lord, Minnie, she’s that bad-
tempered you’d think she was going to
have a baby!” '
“Dan!”
“Well, I’m not,” said Kathleen. “But
don’t let it upset you.”
“Kathleen!” reproved Mrs. Gerahty.
“You all make me sick,” muttered
Kathleen. “I’ve got more to do than
be having babies. It’s all he ever thinks
of —babies and people dying.”
“What else is there?” asked Dan
blithely.
“See you later,” said Kathleen shortly,
and scurried ahead to disappear among
the people.
“Dan, you’ve no right to talk to the
girl like that,” said Mrs. Gerahty. “Kath-
leen’s a good girl. She likes a little fun,
but she doesn’t mean any harm.”
“What do you mean, no harm? A girl
of eighteen and don’t mean no harm!
What the devil’s the matter with her? I
tell you, Minnie Gerahty, my daughter’s
as good as any girl round town. A girl
comes to eighteen and doesn’t mean any
harm! Why, she ought to be in her
grave!”
“There you go again,” said his wife
resignedly.
“I guess I’ll buzz off,” replied Dan dis-
gustedly. “You always upset women by
talking of graves and babies. They’ve
got to come to both if they’re made right,
begging your pardon. Miss Lacey. You
two talk about last Sunday’s dinner. So
long.”
Miss Lacey sighed with relief.
“Poor Dan,” said his wife. “He does
talk a lot of nonsense. He’s always been
the same, shouting at the top of his voice
about nothing in particular. Jenny.,
Peter. Now where did those children go?”
“They made off towards the slide/’
answered Miss Lacey.
“Oh, dear. Do you notice. Miss
Lacey, that children never ask can they
do anything these days? They just do it.
Do you suppose it’s the' war makes them
like that?”
THE carnival consisted of strings of
lights suspended between trees, a
hoop-la booth, a chocolate wheel, a slip-
pery slide, a refreshment stall and the
town band drawn up threateningly in
the bandstand. Mrs. Gerahty and
Miss Lacey made towards the refresh-
ment stall. Here the matrons of
the town forgathered to talk over the
week’s doings and rehash old scandals,
also to foreshadow those about to happen.
Miss Lacey was not rightly a matron, but
she’d picked up interesting oddments in
her ramblings, and had a sprightly tongue
when she got it going. She was excluded
merely from intimate birth details.
“Well, here we all are again,” said Mrs.
Gerahty brightly. “How’s everyone?”
“Fine, thanks. How’s yourself?”
The band struck up, splitting the air
with sounds. It was some moments
before they accustomed themselves to the
noise and collected their scattered
thoughts. Then they got down to it in
earnest. Above them the lights blinked.
Further above still the stars were stolid
in the dark sky.
Kathleen thrust her arm through that
of Mavis Bell, and walked her energeti-
cally through the gathering crowd. “He
makes me sick, just sick,” she said.
“Who?” asked Mavis. “Siddie?”
“No, of course not! My father. I’ve
a good mind to run away.”
“Remember what happened to Mary
Hutchins”
Kathleen stamped her foot irritably.
“Mary Hutchins! I’m not a fool like
Mary Hutchins. How Mothers put up
with him for so long I don’t know.”
“But she kinda likes him.”
“She must kinda something, or she’d
have gone crazy before this. You know
what he did the other night? He came
home at three o’clock in the morning and
crawled in Miss Lacey’s window, shout-
ing at the top of his voice. Shakspeare,
he said it was. He was dead drunk. He
always drags Shakspeare into things when
he’s drunk. Anyhow it gave Lacey an
awful fright, which, of course, served her
right. She needs a few frights, the old
devil.”
“Gosh, Kathleen, you’re kind of mad
with every one.”
“I guess I am. And I’m fhad with
Mother, too. Next morning there she is
going around ssshing everyone. ‘Sssh,’
she says. ‘Sssh. Your father’s got his
malaria again. Ssssh!’ Malaria. I’d
give him malaria.”
Mavis poked her suddenly.
“Who’s the soldier with Siddie?”
“Siddie? Where?” asked Kathleen.
“Over there.”
“Ooh-hoo, Sid,” cried Kathleen.
Sid turned, looked about insolently,
caught sight of the girls and waved non-
chalantly. He turned away again.
Kathleen dropped Mavis’s arm, put her
hands on her hips and was about to tell
all and sundry what she thought of Siddie
Brownlow, when he touched his com-
panion on the shoulder, swung about and
came towards them. She clutched at
Mavis. “Gosh,” she thought, “gosh. Wish
he couldn’t do this to me. Wish he
wouldn’t sling his hat from his shoulder
like that. Wish they’d take him to a
camp a long way off so he couldn’t come
home on leave.”
11 L_| ULLO, Kathleen. Gee, kid, you
1 ' get cuter every day. I guess you
must be just about grown-up. Has your
father got a gun? Hullo, Mavis. You two
like to meet a pal of mine, Ben Adam?”
“Abou Ben Adam?” demanded Mavis.
“The very one,” cried Siddie delightedly,
turning his attention to Mavis. “This is
Mavis, Ben. She used to be the clever
girl at school. Top of the class and all
that.”
“What’s the use of always getting your
teeth fixed when you’ve just got to die in
the end?” demanded Kathleen.
“Hell. What’s the matter with you?”
asked Siddie,
“Take no notice,” advised Mavis.
“She’s off her noodle.”
“To the slide,” shouted Ben.
They climbed up the steep wooden
stairs one behind the other. The scent
of the cedar blossoms made the air
potent so that the stars whirled and the
insecure height made them dizzy with a
sense of danger. On top of the slide the
attendant placed a large sugar-bag. They
linked arms and sat on it gingerly, the
four of them together. •
“Are you right?”
Scent of cedar, sound of music. They
slipped to infinity, flesh touching, wind
rushing, landing a bunch of laughter and
limbs in the sawdust below.
“Again,” cried Mavis.
“No,” said Kathleen. “Let’s go down
to the creek.”
“Let’s go and have a cup of tea,” sug-
gested Mavis.
“Hoi! ” shouted the boys together,
Kathleen laughed. “You remind me of
Miss Lacey. She’s always after cups of
tea.”
They sauntered towards the creek.
The music followed after them, softened
by distance. There was the smell of
earth and water commingling where the
creek hollowed the dark earth of the
bank.
“See that tree there?” said Siddie.
“Nearly drowned myself near it when I
was a kid. There’s a root going out into
the water. I climbed along it and stooped
to wash my hands. Next thing I know
I’m in the water.”
“And what happened?” asked Mavis.
“I forget. I guess someone fished me
out. I’m still here, aren’t I?”
“You might as well have been
drowned,” said Kathleen. “You’d have
got it over.”
“Got what over?”
“Dying. You can only die once. Once
it’s over it’s done with,”
“She’s all messed up about dying,” said
Mavis sneeringly.
“I’ll cure her of that,” answered Siddie.
“Here, kiddo, sit down and talk to your
old uncle.”
“As long as you only sit,” said Mavis
sharply.
“Oh, you shut up!” cried Kathleen.
“Shut up and go away.” •
“All right,” said Mavis, offended.
Kathleen sat down suddenly. “I never
thought Mavis would say a thing like
that,” she said, her voice breaking.
“Be quiet,” urged Siddie. “Kathleen,
I’ll tell you something. I don’t want to be
shot in the stomach. Not in the stomach.
Kathleen,listen to me. Kathleen darling.”
‘ >\ WHERE,” demanded Dan Gerahty,
W “is Kathleen?”
“I’m here,” answered Kathleen equably,
materialising from the shadows.
“I haven’t had sight or sound of you
all night. f Where’s Lacey?”
“I’m here,” said Miss Lacey meekly.
“Guess what, I’ve been talking to a
fellow from the other side of Mary-
borough. Funny for a fellow from right
the other side of there to get right down
here. Just shows what wars can do. Well,
this fellow knows of another fellow who
got some cows to sell”
“Oh, Mr. Gerahty! ” cried Miss Lacey.
“Oh, Mr. Gerahty,” mimicked Dan
and threw his arms about Miss Lacey.
“Dan, Dan,” remonstrated his wife.
“Stop embarrassing the poor girl.”
“It’s time*she was embarrassed,” said
Dan stoutly. “Besides she likes it.
Women all do.”
“Oh, all right,” said Mrs. Gerahty re-
signedly, “You’re not the first man to
make a fool of himself shouting about
what a woman does or does not like. Le*
me tell you, Dan Gerahty, there’s not a
single man living who knows.”
The Dove.
Close your eyes and cover them over
With hands or pennies or seraphs’ wings.
Live or dead or locked in vision,
Wishing for wealth or a dark-haired stranger,
Count a hundred and look again.
Turn the cup and remark the omens,
Scan the papers for astral signs,
Spin your silver —be wise, be wary,
Take a ticket in chance’s lottery
But guard yourself with a hundred charms.
Open your eyes and look around you
Faithless, foolish and credulous one:
After a forty days’ expectance
There is life like a dove still circling
With nothing at all beneath its wing.
N.S.W.
ROSEMARY DOBSON.


The Bulletin
Vol. 65—No. 3337.
Wednesday, January 26, 1944.
THE MONA LISA OF THE KREMLIN.
“Would you say it was painted before or after Tehran?”


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper
‘‘Australia for the White Man”
Directors;
H. K. Prior
P. H. Prior
J. E. Webb
David Adams
HEAD OFFICE: 252 George Street, Sydney:
Box 252IBB; 'Phone 87971.
Victoria: Newspaper House, 247-249 Collins
Street, Melbourne.
Queensland: 239 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
Westraua: 33 Barrack Street, Perth.
New Zealand: Nathan’s Buildings (opp.
G.P.0.), Wellington.
London : 1 Hare Place, 47 Fleet Street,
London, E.Q.4.
CANBERRA CONFERENCE.
Opening speeches by the Australian and
New Zealand Prime Ministers at the Can-
berra Conference as good as stated that
achievement of the main conference ob-
jectives could be taken for granted. On
the first day Mr. Fraser was able to
declare that there was already “complete
agreement” on 75 per cent, of the points
and projects down for discussion.
With a speed that indicated that the
parties had come to the conference witn
their minds made up to get together,
agreement was reached inside two days
on all such vital issues as future com-
bined strategic defence arrangements;
joint action in control of territories ; a
South Seas Regional Commission to
advise the two Governments jointly on
trade, native welfare and suchlike future
developments in this region, and friendly
discussion before “expressing views else-
where.” Altogether a fulfilment of Mr.
Curtin’s, aim that henceforth “we [Aus-
tralia and New Zealand] shall be not
merely partners in carrying those pro-
posals into effect; we shall he the most
active collaborators.”
It would be extraordinary only if this
were not so. It would be hard to find any
other two countries anywhere with more
in common, with fewer potential possibili-
ties of conflict in any imaginable future,
with better reasons for linking together
in the closest collaboration. Certainly
there are no other two independent coun-
tries of the Empire that can mutually
profit to the same extent by acting jointly,
or to which —especially in the matter of
security, on which all else depends —joint
action is so obviously vital.
The most remarkable thing about all
this is that it has needed a war and the
perilously close threat of their extermi-
nation to bring such a pair of patently
natural affinities together. Until this
threat happened to them, and scared the
nonsense out of both of them, they were
as far apart in almost every way as either
is from, say, South Africa. More, they
were getting further apart. Each possess-
ing not much more than enough popu-
lation to peg it out as prospecting claim,
they were both either ridiculously cocky
or incredibly complacent.
Up to a point New Zealand showed,
and has shown, the better appreciation of
its individual weakness. At least, it ac-
cepted as outside party politics that its
security, up to the present war, depended
largely on the security of Britain, and
that fighting side by side with British
troops overseas for the general protection
of the Empire was not merely quixotic
adventuring. In Australia, even after the
present war broke out, there was a loudly
vocal party apparently holding to just
that opposite view. In other words, Aus-
tralia had a large (or loud) strongly isola-
tionist element —leaving the foreign-
minded Communists out of the reckon-
ing altogether—which regarded the battle-
fields where the fate of the Empire, and
of this country with it, was being decided
as “remote,” “distant” and even “foreign”
(vide a score or two speeches by any
number of Australian Labor politicians
at the time the war started and afterwaids,
till they took office).
The Canberra Conference suggests that
the New Zealand view has —for the time
being, at any rate —prevailed over the
view of that isolationist element. There
are still Wards and suchlike on the land-
scape no doubt as ignorant and provin-
cial as ever they were on this issue; but
even the first day of the Canberra Con-
ference indicated a heartening measure
of change, and, in view of past utterance
and performance, the change has been
sweeping. Indicative of this is the fact
that it has been a member of the former
isolationist, Australia-for-itself-only party
who has taken the lead —not only at this
conference, but for some time past—in
shaping the general policy on which the
two countries should now jointly act.
It is clear that Dr. Evatt wrote a large
part of the Canberra agenda. In a notable
speech in the House of Representatives
after his return from abroad last year,
the Minister foreshadowed the Canberra
Conference and the prospective close col-
laboration between Australia and New
Zealand, and also outlined the major
points of joint policy which the confer-
ence has considered.
Coming after some of the earlier war
record of his party, that speech by Dr.
Evatt deserved to be better publicised
than it was, both for his party’s sake (and
the enlightenment of some of his party
colleagues) and for Australia’s reassur-
ance. It gave the lead that was subse-
quently taken —partly, at least —by the
Labor Conference held in December,
which adopted a “charter” which prac-
tically amounted to its orders to the
Prime Minister. Dr. Evatt’s speech also
outlined plans for the mutual collabora-
tion of Australia and New Zealand in a
regional defence scheme in the Pacific,
and it made some admissions that needed
making and that need remembering.
For one thing—and it made strange
hearing, all things considered, particularly
after all the preceding blab from Minis-
terial and other members of his party
about “foreign” battlefields, the oppo-
sition to “expeditionary forces” (i.e., the
A.1.F.) and to compulsory training, and
other examples of ignorant and narrow
thinking on the whole security question—
Dr. Evatt paid a rare tribute to “the mas-
sive and indeed the matchless war effort
of the people of Britain.” He spoke of
the thousands of Australians with the
R.A.F. and R.A.A.F., fighting there and
over Europe and Africa; “These men,”
he said, “are also fighting for Australia.”
Dr. Evatt insisted that “wherever Aus-
tralians fought—and they have fought in
nearly every theatre of war and on nearly
every front —they have been fighting for
.... the security of Australia,”
That certainly had not been the unani-
'mous view of Dr, Evatt’s party, though it
was the view long held by the correspond-
ing party in New Zealand, Coming from
one of his party at that time, there was
something equally arresting in Dr. Evatt’s
insistence that “Australia cannot 'safely
limit her interests even to the gigantic.
area of the Pacific.” He admitted—again
strange, in view of his party’s Opposition
performance at the outbreak of the war
in Europe—that in both the last war and
this “with Britain vitally involved, so at
once were we.”
Here Dr. Evatt was touching on, and
giving a lead in, the larger Empire
arrangements towards the making of
which the Canberra Conference is a mere
preliminary canter. One thing the pro-
posed Empire Conference will have to
settle will be the part henceforth to be
taken by the Dominions in deciding
Britain’s European arrangements and
commitments. Dr. Evatt declared on
this: “Our concern with Europe cannot
be limited to the waging of wars ; we
must have some say in taking steps to
prevent wars and in changing the condi-
tions which are likely to cause wars.”
That is to say, if there are to be obliga-
tions there must be a previous sharing in
policy likely to involve them.
Speaking, and thinking, on Empire and
international terms —“we cannot contract
out of Europe”—Dr. Evatt also dealt, in
more explicit terms, with the special
interest of Australia and New Zealand
jointly in the near-Pacific area as a de-
fence and trading zone. More compre-
hensive details of this were given by Dr.
Evatt in a document circulated to mem-
bers of the Canberra Conference on be-
half of the Commonwealth Government.
Main centres of mutual interest pointed
out by Dr. Evatt included the Solomons,
the New Hebrides group. New Caledonia,
Timor, the Netherlands Indies and other
territories in the same area, including
Australia’s own mandates. All these terri-
tories, Dr. Evatt declared, formed, with
Australia and New Zealand, “a great
zone of rmitual interest. It would be
blindness not to recognise their comple-
mentary relationship.” Dr. Evatt pointed
out how the Solomons, with war on, in-
stead of being a defence bastion, actually
became a menace to Australia. “There
was a lack of adequate contact between
the Australian and British administra-
tions even in relation to defence.”
We have a definite interest in seeing that,
after the war, these islands should maintain
sufficient bases and be developed along lines
that will make*them not a liability but an
asset in the defence of the South-west and
South Pacific. With the rapid development
of aviation their landing-grounds will be-
come of importance in transport services
to and from Australia. We have a con-
siderable interest in watching the use * to
which they are put.
Similarly the New Hebrides islands,
another “defence liability because of their
lack of development.” Before the war
these islands were administered jointly
by Britain and France, a system which.
Dr. Evatt has mildly stated, “was con-
sidered in many quarters as not condu-
cive to the progress of the group.”
In New Caledonia Dr. Evatt ex-
pects the “restoration of full French
sovereignty” ; but “We also regard it as
essential that, in relation to defence, air
transport and trade, there should be a
very close and intimate relationship be-
tween Australia and New Caledonia.”
Timor, part Portuguese, and part
Dutch and practically defenceless, could
become “a bastion of our defence” if
“properly placed within the zone of Aus-
tralian security.” So with the other terri-
tories in the vast area envisaged as a
natural zone of special interest to Aus-
tralia and New Zealand both for security
of each and all and for trade.
All of this most obviously represents
a wide departure from the old isolationist
spirit which kept both countries as sepa-
rate entities, looking no further abroad
than their own borders on home defence
and on little else except competitive
trade, mainly with Britain, and waging a
crazy orange-potato war. It took a real
war and the close threat to existence to
widen the vision, and it is as well that the
beginning of the attempt to realise the
vision should be made now, while the
threat —though lessened—is still there to
act as a spur and guiding reins to both.
The Canberra Conference has not ironed
it all out. It is a tremendous thing that
both the conferring countries, with their
defensively minute populations, are fac-
ing. It is a new and greater, and also
much more difficult and complex, world
for both of them. If they are to succeed,
and survive, they must act continuously
in the spirit promised by the Canberra
Conference —like other parts of the
British Commonwealth, as individual
nations, but with the great bulk of their
interests, for peace or for war, common
to both. And the stronger they are as
individuals the more valuable they will
be to each other and to the Empire as
a flourishing and secure concern.
Browder Somersaults.
The Communists have made many
changes in their plans and policy, but
none more hilariously strange than that
announced by Comrade Earl Browder,
secretary and boss of the U.S. Communist
party, in these terms:
It is my considered judgment that Ameri-
cans are so ill-prepared for socialism that
post-war plans with such aims would divide
and weaken the Democratic, progressive
camp while strengthening the reactionary,
Fascist forces.
We therefore frankly declare that we are
ready to co-operate in making capitalism
work effectively, with the least possible
burden upon the people, and we will draw
no political lines of division for the 1944
elections on any issue of free enterprise.
The policy of Tehran supporters must
be to seek the support of all classes, from
the big bourgeoisie to Communists.
The changes at the beginning of the
war were curious enough. In August,
1939, Germany, to all English-speaking
Communists, was a blood-drunk Fascist
tyranny, and Chamberlain a coward and
worse. He had been told in furious
language that he “must at once sign the
Anglo-Soviet pact against the German
butchers and extend it to the Japanese
butchers.” There arrived instead a Rib-
bentrop-Molotov agreement, but this was
pronounced “a great victory for the
Soviet and for peace; Ribbentrop will
soon find that in the event of unprovpked
aggression the pact becomes null and
void.”
Then came war and, for a few troubled
days, Communist support,for Chamber-
lain, on the score of his being a cham-
pion of the democratic Poles.
But by October 11, Germany and
Russia having carved up racked and
ruined Poland, English-speaking Commu-
nists discovered that the war had been
promoted by the “aggressor imperialist
nations,” Britain and France, from
motives of conquest; that' Poland was a
“reactionary landlord State” from which
the oppressors and robbers of “White
Russians and Ukrainians” had been justly
expelled, and that since it had been
divided between the Russians and Ger-
mans all motive for the continuance of
the war had disappeared.
In June, 1941, Germany having started
to shed Russian blood, the “Hitlerites”
reverted to their status as “blood-drunk
Fascist beasts,” a description never
applied to them by Communists during
the 21 months in which they shed the
blood of British, French, Norwegians,
Dutch, Belgians, Poles and Jews, men,
women and children.
And now we find the largest and
richest Communist party outside the
U.S.S.R. supporting and “co-operating”
with capitalism in spite of its Communist
Party Training Manual, on which the
Australian Communist Party Manual is
modelled, the - definitions being the same
almost word for word.
Capitalism, it appears from these pub-
lications, means
progressive act's of violence, new wars,
periodic slumps, gluts and crises
anarchy in production chronic unem-
ployment and exploitation it converts
independent producers into professional
wage slaves Capitalism is its own grave-
digger In the struggle for political power
to overthrow the capitalist class a
period of insurrection marks the revolution.
Yet with this “vile system,” the destruc-
tion of which has been vowed by all
English-speaking Communist parties, the
American Communists are ready to co-
operate in order to make it work effec-
tively with the “least possible burden.”
The implications go even deeper than
appears on the surface, for “imperial-
ism,” the mention of which makes every
Communist froth at the mouth, is “the
last stage of capitalism,” meaning the
contemporary stage:
Parasitism is inherent in imperialism. Im-
perialism based on monopoly causes inevit-
able tendency to stagnation and corruption
....creates classes of rentiers and sets the
stamp of parasitism on the whole country,
living by the exploitation of labor of
colonies Imperialism is the stage of
capitalist development when the social revo-
lution becomes an immediate practical ques-
tion The struggle for power between the
leading imperialist States for raw materials,
markets and territories leads to war and
the slaughter of the working classes.
Can it be that Browder and his kind
are actually supporting all these horrible
conditions?
Or is it merely that thoughtful Rus-
sians have found so much reason to be
grateful for the existence of strong,
stable and generous democratic Govern-
ments and “capitalist” systems in the
British Commonwealth and the U.S.A.
that it has become impolitic for Browder
and his gang to hold out?
All the signs—return of the old-time
uniforms, saluting of officers and other
ancient observances; speeding-up ; piece-
work ; huge money prizes which make
the winners capitalists ; collective farmers
who are advertised as putting a million
or so rubles into war loans ; the official
recognition of religion (three years ago
still “the opium of the people”)—suggest
that Communism has become merely a
name in Russia, at any rate for the time
being.
Browder’s seeming change of heart
came a moment after he had been moved
to send the Australian Communist party
his hearty congratulations on its having
swallowed the so-called N.S.W. “State
Labor party” whole. Actually there was
no swallowing. The “State Labor party”
was never more than a shadow-show
which deceived no one, having been im-
provised by the comrades when their
organisations and' newspapers were under
a legal ban, weakly removed.
The Australian Communist party has
been under the personal tutelage of Com-
rade Browder for more than 15 years.
At a 1929 conference, along with dele-
gates from Russia and other countries,
Japan among them, he helped to lay
down the policy-lines on which the Aus-
tralian Communist party has since
worked.
Vladivostok was the scene of the
conference, and one of the remem-
bered remarks was that the only cure
for “reformist politicians” was “the
grave.” It did not come from Comrade
Browder, but that gentleman, referring
particularly to Australia, said it was “the
first duty of trade-union leaders to pre-
pare workers for the struggle against
Arbitration Courts if we succeed we
force the employers to use another
weapon.'” Comrade Browder presented
a resolution —it was adopted by a special
committee —condemning not only arbi-
tration in Australia but any attempt to
agree to industrial peace with employers
and to collaboration with “reformists.”
“In the struggle against reformism,” he
boomed, “no quarter must be given to
reactionary leaders ; no collaboration with
these traitor tools of the capitalists is
possible.” The conference also con-
demned the White Australia policy on
the ground that if the workers were
divided on a racial issue “the class fight”
could not be carried on.
Browder’s somersault may be accounted
a belated sequel to the dissolution of the
Communist International. In the black-
guard rush to follow him, the S.A. Com-
munist body was first, and it adapted his
language to the occasion (“the immediate
question after victory will be to make
Australian capitalism work with the least
possible burden on the people”). It is not
really expected that “Balance Sheet”
Thornton, Elliott of the Seamen’s Union
and other Communist worthies will over-
exert themselves to try to make capital-
ism “work” ; but words are cheap, and to
be a “good” Communist in Australia it is
necessary to have a mind shaped like a
corkscrew, capable of turning in any
direction.
It doesn’t seem likely that Browder was
forewarned of and influenced by the fear
of local reactions to Soviet policy towards
Poland and the Balkan States and the
deadly insult to Britain published in
“Pravda” as coming from “reliable
Yugoslav and Greek circles in Egypt.” In
matters of foreign policy Moscow never
takes English-speaking Communists into
its confidence. When meditating changes
it prefers *to keep them in ignorance and
see them flounder when the changes are
made, doubtless enjoying the repeated
spectacle, as do the opponents of Com-
munism throughout the English-speaking
world. It can be certain always that the
comrades will accommodate themselves
to the new situation with utter servility.
Leftists who pose as lions in places like
Sydney and New York are lambs where
Moscow is concerned. Indeed the Left-
ist brand of flunkeyism is unique in this
twentieth century. There has been nothing
like it since Thackeray wrote his Book
of Snobs.


PLAIN ENGLISH
The Embarrassing Paddy.
When the delegation from Maoriland
arrived there was a specially warm wel-
come for Mr. Paddy,Webb, Minister of
Labor and Mines and P.M.G. —Maori-
land Ministers have to earn their money.
Paddy is Australian-born, as was his old
leader, Mick Savage; and his career has
been the answer to the sporting Laborite’s
prayer. In youth, as a Victorian mine-
worker, he was boycotted for “trade-
union activities” ; in manhood he went
to jail rather than become a Maoriland
conscript; in middle-age he succeeded
not only in politics but on the Turf, and
that as a racehorse-owner.
However, after a speech at a Canberra
luncheon at which Paddy and the other
members of the mission and other gentle-
men were the guests of the Common-
wealth Government, some of those who
had expressed themselves as delighted to
see him once more must have wished he
hadn’t come.
For Paddy introduced the ticklish sub-
ject of coal-production. Though he could
scarcely have been ignorant of the fact
that there was a stunning slump in N. S.
Wales last year, reckoned at round
700,000 tons —this with demand ever-
increasing—he made the invidious state-
ment that New Zealand coalminers had
“established record after record.” Worse
still, he carried a message from the New
Zealand miners: “They asked me to
appeal to their comrades in Australia for
maximum production.”
The returned wanderer went on to say
that there were no coal strikes in Maori-
land, “only one or two little stopwork
meetings.” Here his enthusiasm pardon-
ably ran away with him. In the October
“Abstract of Statistics,” issued monthly
by his Government, it is stated that dur-
ing the nine months to September 30
there were 29 coalmining disputes, involv-
ing 6497 workers and causing the loss of
7529 working days. Nevertheless, if he
had challenged a comparison with N. S.
Wales figures, he would have been on
safe ground. In September alone 27,069
N. S. Wales coalminers were involved
in disputes and 39,323 working days were
lost; and September was a “good”
month, “lost time per cent, of possible
working time” being computed at 5.7 per
cent. In July 866 i mine-working days
were worked and 113 f were lost, lost time
being 11.6 per cent, of possible working
time. And working time underground is
40 hours a week from bank to bank,
roughly 36 hours.
But Paddy hadn’t finished. He said:
Anybody holding up production in this
war is an enemy to unionism. I cannot
imagine a Labor Government being a
Government unless there is discipline in the
industrial field.
There are 19 Commonwealth Ministers
(God knows why!), and presumably they
were all at the luncheon. It is to be
hoped that the meal didn’t disagree with
them.
Next day “11 N. S. Wales coalmines”
were idle “for, a loss of 10,000 tons of
coal, the heaviest loss since the New
Year outbreak of holdups,” which came
after all the mines had been shut down
for nine days.
The Bushfire Menace.
It is a permanent institution in Aus-
tralia, and will remain so until it is
properly tackled. As in many other things,
the authorities have a pathetic belief in
the value of advertisements, mostly stuck
in trams and flashed on cinema screens,
though it would seem that they take little
notice of them themselves. The fires are
advertisement enough when Victoria can
lose in one week, in addition to 20 valu-
able human lives (and ten others were lost
in the previous Wangaratta outbreak),
1,000,000 sheep, 200,000 poultry, 50,000
cattle, 1000 horses, 1000 pigs, 5000 bee-
hives, 750 homes and 12,000 miles of
fencing, to say nothing of thousands of
tons of fodder in the shape of grass, hay
and grain. And this when the nation is
being rationed in foodstuffs in order to
feed its own people, the British people
and Allied service men.
It was here said (19/1/’44) that fire-
prevention and -fighting should be the
job of the Commonwealth Department of
Home Security, and it is said again. A great
measure of prevention could have been —
and can be —secured by an expenditure
of much less than the £200,000 found by
the Commonwealth Government for
bushfire-relief in Victoria. In the depart-
ment named, as in others, are veteran
A.I.F. commanders who could be trusted
to organise anti-fire equipment and services
—men whose capacity for fighting an
enemy has been tried and proved. As it
is, there is a multitude of authorities
all working more or less independently
of each other and with mixed and dif-
ferent equipment and services: Home
Security personnel, V.D.C., volunteer air
observers, the P.M.G.’s department, ser-
vice men in camps, fire brigades, police,
forestry, water supply, medical and man-
power officers. All these and others
should be brought under one national
authority.
There can be no quibbling about the
cost. What wouldn’t Australia give to
have saved the losses of this year alone?
And since the fire menace will be active
until April there should be nb quibbling
about swift action.
On the Booze Front.
In particular, the Sydney sector:
Going to Kalgoorlie for the turning on of
the water gravitated and pumped from a reser-
voir o nearly 400 miles away, and praising the
constructive statesmanship of John Forrest
and the engineering genius of C. Y. O’Connor,
a witty Sydney politician said “I have never
heard so much talk of water and seen so little
drunk.” Could G. H. Reid return to his own
city and size up the situation on the booze
front he might appropriately amend the obser-
vation to “I have never heard so much talk of
beer, wine an'd spirits shortages and seen so
much evidence of swinish drinking and drunken-
Sly-grog dens and perambulating vendors of
booze at robbery prices abound. The black
market in liquor is a more frequent subject of
conversation than the war. There has been a
huge increase in convictions for drunkenness,
though only the worst examples are “lumbered”
—it would be impossible for the police to deal
with more than a fraction. Bar-rooms in which
beer is on tap are haunts of jostling and roar-
ing fellows who swill the stuff like hogs and
call on the barmaid or barman to fill the glasses
again. Heeltaps are poured into jugs from
which glasses stood on the counter for froth to
subside are replenished.
No small part of the male population spends
its Saturday afternoons prospecting for and
. ensconcing itself in pubs which have beer.
Every Saturday afternoon there is a savage
brawl or a series of savage brawls which are
apt to become footpath and roadway riots.
As a rule they begin between fellows who think
they haven’t had enough beer and fellows who
have obviously bad too much. And the be-
havior of many girls and women, especially
those who seek the company of service men —
in the most sordid cases, color not' objected to
—is worse than that of the men. Dingy wine
bars are favored by the most corrupt and cor-
rupting specimens.
And all this while the flower of the nation
is fighting a war for survival on Australian
territory! . ■
Liquor law and enforcement are in the
hands of a complacent State Labor Govern-
ment. What the law and enforcement amount
to, and how little care is taken to see that only
people worthy of trust are concerned in the
running of licensed houses, may be judged
from three court reports, the parties being
members of a family associated in one way
and another with a joint called the Imperial
Hotel, Milson’s Point. *
January 7: The licensee, Elizabeth C.
Waterhouse, pleaded guilty to having sold
adulterated wine. An analyst said the wine
was unfit for human consumption and
would cause nausea when a person drank
it. There had been deterioration either in
manufacture or in handling or in blending
with deteriorated wine. William Water-
house, son of the licensee, stated that the
wine had been bought in bulk from a
grower on the -Murrumbidgee Irrigation
Areas and sold in the same condition in
which it was bought, having been bottled
by him on the premises. A health inspector
said defendant had been convicted ot
a similar offence in 1942, when the Court
ordered the destruction of 272 bottles of
wine. Mr. Sheridan, S.M., imposed a fine
of £2O. , . . .
Twenty pounds for selling muck which
would sicken and might madden the unsuspect-
ing buyer, perhaps a service man; and a
second offence! Apparently nothing came out
about the price at which the. villainous stun
was sold, but it was common talk in wine
queues that “you can always get a bottle at
Waterhouse’s, though you will have to pay five
b ° b January 18: Albert Thomas Waterhouse
was charged with having a quantity of
goods in a building in Alfred-street,
Milson’s Point, reasonably suspected of
having been stolen —3000 bottles of assorted
cordials, 624 tins of jam, two cases of camp
pie, one case of soap, three cases of con-
densed milk, 55 bags of sugar, eight motor
tyres, one motor wheel, one 451 b. drum ot
linseed oil, two four-gallon tins of kerosene
and four drums containing petrol. A con-
stable said he had found the goods on
December 13, after receiving information
from Customs officers, and had found a
number of bags of sugar and two boxes of
cordials in an adjoining building in Paul-
street. The premises were two doors away
from the Imperial Hotel, and he had often
seen Waterhouse about the hotel. Accused
said the premises were part of the Water-
house estate, of which he was the agent,
and he had let the place to a man who put
a»padlock on the door —he could not enter
unless the man was there. Three months.
Notice of appeal given; bail allowed —£50,
January 20: The Metropolitan Licensing
’ Court transferred the license of the Imperial
Hotel from Mrs. Elizabeth C. Waterhouse
to her son John Knight Waterhouse, aged
23, on condition that the mother, Charles
Otto Hercules Waterhouse (another son) and
Albert Thomas Waterhouse (their uncle) were
not allowed on the premises and that John
Knight Waterhouse did not - carry on busi-
ness as a bookmaker while he held a license.
John Knight Waterhouse, described as
grazier and bookmaker, said his mother
had two convictions for adulteration of
liquor and a third case was pending ; an-
other conviction would mean cancellation of
the license.
Mr. Scobie, the Chairman, expressed surprise
that hotelkeepers were allowed to hold book-
makers’ licenses [the solicitor for the parties
said he knew of several cases], and suggested
that representations might be made to the A.J.C.
It was never a matter for the A.J.C. but
for the Sydney Government. That Govern-
ment, however, has let the people down so
badly that control of the Trade in all its
branches and the fixing and enforcement of
penalties should be taken out of its hands for
the rest of the war and at least 12 months after
it. Penalties should be fixed by the Common-
wealth Attorney-General, preferably in a war
measure to be introduced at latest next month.
And for every offence involving adulteration
or robbery or both there should be jail without
the option, with, automatic forfeiture of the
license.
H.M.S. SIRIUS RETURNS.
“Well, at least they haven’t greeted us with a shower of spears.”


f J*
Ws'”> .9 t v *:*
C. S.R.HARDWALL PLASTER
Packed in Juie Bags
PLI
Specially designed to
resist more- than -
ordinary wear, this
exceptionally hard
gypsum finishing plas-
ter is recommended
for all wall surfaces
which are subject to
exceptional wear and
tear. It is, of course,
essential that this
work be done by ex-
pert plasterers.
THE COLONIAL SUGAR REFINING COMPANY LTD.
(Building Materials Division),
SYDNEY - - MELBOURNE - - BRISBANE - - ADELAIDE - - PERTH
P. 1-43.
A COLLECTION OF OVER 100
ft t
DRAWINGS
BY
TED SCORFIELD
Fresh supplies of this 68-page
book are now available. It’s
the best thing of its kind ever
published in Australia. Price
2/6 plus 2~2~d. for postage.
(Id. postage to the forces.)
Include a copy in the next parcel to your soldier —he’ll appreciate it.
Address orders to:
“Mixed Grill,” Bulletin Office,
Box 252188, G.P.0., Sydney.
POLITICAL POINTS
The Curtin-Fraser agreement consists
of 44 points—too many, but a modern
habit in these matters. One (16) is certain
to arouse comment on the other side of
the Pacific ; and not only in the Chicago
“Tribune” and the New York “Daily
News”:
The two Governments accept as a recog-
nised principle of international practice
that the construction and use in time of
war by any Power of naval, military or
air installations in any territory under the
sovereignty or control of another Power
does not in itself afford any basis for terri-
torial claims or rights of sovereignty or
control after the completion of hostilities.
It would have been better left unsaid.
In Europe it may be construed as having
a bearing on developments in Poland and
the Baltic States, since one of the parties
is Poland’s Protecting Power.
Point 32 of the agreement signed at
Canberra:
In the peace settlement or other negotia-
tions the two Governments will accord one
another full support in maintaining the '
accepted principle that every Government
has the right to control immigration and
emigration in regard to all territories within
its jurisdiction.
Excellent; and it may even moderate the
hostility of Lang, who has formed a new
party. But it will infuriate all Corns, and
fellow-travellers.
The “Daily Worker” is bitter because
the War Office won’t let it send a re-
porter to the Second Front. It should
apply to Stalin. Uncle Joe doesn’t allow
British reporters near his fronts, but surely
he couldn’t object to the “Daily Worker.”
While hundreds of men with sledges
were dragging dead stock to the funeral
pyre in the areas devastated by the Vic-
torian bushfires a conference of bodies
concerned with bushfire fighting and pre-
vention met in Melbourne, with Premier*
Dunstan as chairman. Everybody was
agreed that commonsense demanded
unified control, but nobody was agreed
as to which body should boss all the
others. Napoleon had a short way with
committees in similar situations, but there
is nothing Napoleonic about Dunstan.
Relative importance of horse-racing
and reading to the Sydney Labor
Government. Its Sydney Turf Club, hav-
ing bought three dates from a pro-
prietary concern for £9OOO, is in full
flower, if that is the expression. If the
transaction results in a loss —as it may if
the two meetings to be held are washed
out by rain—the Government will have
to foot the bill, since the club has no
funds of its own. But the Municipal
Libraries Act, though passed upwards of
four years ago (the Turf Club Act was
passed last year), “is still inoperative be-
cause the Libraries Board has not been
officially constituted.”
Britain’s so-called Common Wealth
party has won a seat from the Conserva-
tives, whether because the electors believe
in the Common Wealth party or because
its candidate was an army lieutenant is
not clear. The leader, a young aristo-
crat named Ackland, was himself a Con-
servative, and, accused of twisting, he
“defended” himself by saying he had
consulted a hundred (100) constituents.
A bitter Conservative M.P, has de-
scribed the Common Wealth manifestos
as “camouflaged Communism.”
“Pravda,” which alleged on the
authority of “reliable Yugoslav and
Greek circles” that “two English per-
sonalities recently conferred in secret
with Ribbentrop to elucidate terms for
a separate peace,” is described by one of
those Moscow correspondents as “one
.of the most serious and responsible news-
papers in Russia,” It is improbable that
the description will be endorsed by Smuts
or Wendell Willkie. Smuts had occasion
to rebuke the paper in one of his speeches
at Westminster. Willkie it savagely
attacked.
Someone must have told Trevor Smith,
London representative of the Melbourne
“Herald” group of papers, of the “com-
placency” and “optimism” produced in
Australia by fantastic reporting of the
Russian war—it is an everyday occur-
rence in queues to hear that “the war will
SUBMITTED AS A FIRST ENTRY FOR THE NEXT ARCHIBALD PRIZE.
be over in three months.” “Inquiries I
have made and information at my dis-
posal” prompted the “Herald” man to
write this startling paragraph:
The Russians are reckoned to have lost
three or four million men in 1942, and per-
haps double that number in 1941. This
estimate would mean that almost 50 per
cent of the men called up in Russia are
killed, missing or disabled.
In effect, one of the greatest human
tragedies of all time. It helps to explain
why Russian propagandists have been hit-
ting out in all directions in a distracted
fashion, though it does not justify the
imputation of double-crossing to steadfast
Britain.
Food-front confusion is made worse
confounded by State Government inter-
ference. Fishermen at Port Stephens
(N.S.W.) have been getting good hauls
of salmon and sending the fish to Sydney,
where it brought 4d. a pound. When Mr.
Badly heard of it he issued an order that
Port Stephens catches were to be reserved
for Newcastle. It meant that the salmon
had to be packed in smaller lots and sent
to a market which soon became glutted,
the price falling to Id. a nound. which
didn’t pay. The immediate and natural
result was a slump in the supply of a
commodity which could be a very useful
addition to rationed meat. Port Stephens
has never had anything to thank Sydney
Governments for.
Another member of the original mis-
sion to Moscow is returning to Australia
beaten by the climate —Professor Craw-
ford, the “adviser.” Mr. Crawford had
pneumonia, and “it is expected that he
will resume his position as Professor of
History at Melbourne University,” No
word of Mr. Maloney, but presumably
Mr. Maloney continues to hold the fort
for Australia as Poland’s Protecting
Power.
There is to be a conference of N.E.S.
“heads” in Sydney, with H. P. Lazzarini,
Federal Minister of Home Security, as
chairman. According to Lazzarini, there
is “a mistaken impression in some
quarters that the need for civil-defence
training is disappearing.” There is an
impression, not mistaken, in other
quarters that Lazzarini is not pulling his
weight in the Ministry, and it has been
strengthened since Beasley broke down.
Nine adults and seven children killed
and four persons seriously injured was the
toll in the latest N.S.W. level-crossing
smash —a mail train ran down a loaded
bus near the Hawkesbury River station
(N.S.W.). One of the first things the
Maoriland Labor Government did when
it came to power was to begin to elimi-
nate level crossings wherever possible and
render others foolproof. Accidents fell
away to nothing, and Maoriland gives
Robert Semple the credit.
A pathetic feature of the fires about
Young (N.S.W.) was that the property
of Lieut.-Col. C. G. Anderson at Crow-
ther suffered. English-born, Anderson
won the V.C. in Malaya and is a prisoner-
of-war in Japan. His brave wife has
been carrying on the property. In Vic-
toria and N.S.W. there are probably
similar cases, and there may be more until
the fire season ends. It all points to the
need for a national concentration on this
fire evil; no fighting land-man should be
disturbed by the thought that his farm
may be destroyed in his absence.
Australia’s most voluble vet. is a Mr,
lan Clunies Ross, of Sydney. Professor
of veterinary science—a vet.’s vet., as it
were —at the University, he finds time to
be a Sir Oracle on many other subjects,
and the less he knows about them the
more oracular he is. Last week, having
dashed off a couple of very superiah
“S. M. Herald” articles which set pas-
toralists leaping with rage, he turned
savagely on the late Chamberlain at a
Zionist meeting which demanded the
opening of Palestine to unrestricted Jew-
ish immigration:
If appeasement had not reached its lowest
depth after Munich there would have been
no White Paper.
The fact is that Churchill has continued
Chamberlain’s policy, preferring peace
with the Arab and Moslem world to ac-
cepting the dynamite-loaded demands of
American and Australian Zionists and
other distant non-combatants, among
them Bishop Pilcher, Tannock, M.L.C.
(of N.S.W. Aid Russia Committee cele-
brity), and the Voluble Vet.
The widow of Ciano, shot by ruffians in
the service of her father for assisting to
bring him down, has fled to Switzerland,
and is “now living” there “with her three
children under strict police supervision.”
A facer for “Fact,” Sydney “Sun’s” news-
refuse, which in the nasty clipped Eng-
lish that Left-Wing writers affect, had
“strong-willed, over-sexed Edda under
the protection of Gestapo chief Himmler;
Edda’s friendship with Himmler is said
to have dated from before the Duce’s
downfall.” Typical Left-Wing journa-
lism, which, when it goes in for scandal
or invective, is never far removed from
blackguardism.
Replying to a reproof addressed to him
by Group-Captain Geoffrey Hughes,
M.C., A.F.C., and published in “Smith’s
Weekly,” Falstein, the self-dropped pilot,
blustered that his retirement to the re-
serve had been “endorsed and approved
by the Watson Council of the A.L.P.”
Straightway he received a command
to appear before the Coogee branch
of the A.L.P. and justify his retreat from
the “when-I-go-into-action” mood. And,
as Abie Landa knows, the Coogee
branch is mighty and not to be dis-
obeyed.
To a fellow-poet Chatterton was “the
marvellous boy.” To all the Empire
Churchill is the marvellous old boy. Back
in London last week after his second
bout of pneumonia in 10 months, he went
straight to the Commons, which found
him full of confidence and quips. Con-
valescing in Algeria, he did a good job of
reconciliation with De Gaulle. That previ-
ously intractible character has come on a
lot since the Lebanon business, which was
smoothed out by his able lieutenant
Catroux. One of De Gaulle’s worries
is the Communist element, which, offered
representation in his Ministry, demanded
two portfolios of its determining, one
being Information. Demand refused.
Just when politicians were saying that
Menzies might become Chief Justice of
Victoria Bob bobbed up in Sydney and
“conferred with the executive of the
Democratic party,” late U.A.P., and
formerly Nat. and Lib. Mair was not
present at the discussions. Neither, very
obviously, was “Stonewall” Jackson,
M.L.A. for Nepean since October, 1927
(he was one of the Sydney group under
P.R. for five years before that), and for
a time a Stevens Minister, “Stonewall”
is going to be a National Liberal Federa-
tion.


f
PRE-WAR STRENGTH
Pure Grape Brandy
PERSONAL ITEMS
Coincidence was never more appropri-
ately on the job than when General Mac-
Arthur’s and Australia’s birthdays were
arranged for the same day of the month
•—today, January 26. And there isn’t an
Australian who won’t join in wishing
Gen. MacArthur many happy returns on
his 64th anniversary. The general hails
originally from Arkansas, comes of mili-
tary stock (his father was a Civil War
general) and was twice wounded in the
last world war.
Oddly, Australia’s and New Zealand’s
fighter aces Wing-Commander Clive
Caldwell, of Sydney, and Wing-Com-
mander Colin Gray, of Gisborne —have
run up the same score in enemy aircraft
brought down —each 27|. Gray and
another Maorilander —Wing-Commander
Deere (Wanganui)—had been running
neck and neck for the M.L. honors, but
Gray’s score in the Tunisian campaign
put him well ahead of Deere’s 21j, which
is tidy enough. Gray, now D. 5.0.,
D.F.C. and two bars, commanded a
squadron of Spitfires at Gibraltar and
later commanded five squadrons with the
job of escorting bombers over Tunis and
Sicily. Other high-scoring Maorilanders
include Flight-Lieut. Hesselyn, with 19},
and Wing-Commander Comton, with
16y.
The arrival in Melbourne of a bearded
man who owns 150 wives ought to be a
matter for considerable comment, but he
happens to be the Right Rev. Francis
Xavier Gsell, 0.8. E., M.S.C., D.D., the
first R.C. bishop of Darwin, and the
wives are girls who, under aboriginal
tribal law, are born married to
native husbands and whom the bishop
saves from a life of slavery by buying
them for £2 a head. Under abo. dispen-
sation they become technically his spouses
until he marries them off to young Binghi
converts. Bishop Gsell was born in
Alsace, educated in France and Italy, be-
came professor of theology at Sacred
Heart Monastery, Kensington (N.S.W.),
and in 1900 went as a missionary to
Papua. Six years later he took over his
diocese at Darwin—soo,ooo square miles,
with 30,000 natives and assorted races.
Maurice Giles, of Melrose (S.A.), has
been elected Mayor of the City of West-
minster, London. When the 1914-18 war
began he held an appointment in the
Australian wheat trade in the foggy city.
He joined the Inns of Court O.T.C. and
was commissioned in the Army Service
Corps. In 1920 he disposed of his Aus-
tralian property and has since lived in
Westminster.
Frederick Williams Heath, director of
Robertson and Mullen’s, Melbourne,
managing director of Gaunt’s, Mel-
bourne’s noted clock firm, and time-
keeper for the V.R.C. since 1892,
has just passed his 90th milestone. He
was once, like John Masefield, such a
sick lad that his parents thought they’d
never raise him. As with the poet,
heroic measures were taken with him, his
father sending him on a voyage from
Plymouth Hoe to Rio, and he returned
so changed that his mother didn’t know
him. His next voyage was to Australia
in a tug his father had bought; it’s still
in commission in Port Phillip. In Mel-
bourne young Heath became book-
keeper to the jewellery firm of Willis and
Son, which led to the founding of Gaunt’s
and to his interest in the bookselling
firm of George Robertson, later amalga-
mated with Melville and Mullens as
Robertson and Mullens. Still in harness,
F. W. Heath is today probably the oldest
chairman of directors in Australia.
William Dobell, whose amusing carica-
ture of a brother-artist, Joshua Smith,
has won the Archibald Prize for 1943, is
44, was born at Newcastle (N.S.W.), won
the Travelling Art Scholarship while a
student under Julian Ashton, and has
been demonstrating his independence and
originality ever since with portraits and
figure studies which exhibit a sort of
impish vitality.
“H.W.M.”; When the late Tom
Brennan, K.C., was junior to Maxwell,
K.C., in the Colin Ross murder case
good-natured “Billy” Schutt was the
Judge who sentenced Ross to death, and
in doing so he was visibly affected. It
was this upset which tpade Schutt decide
to retire from the Bench at the first
opportunity, Schutt, a lover of life him-
self, never quite got over the ordeal of
having to deprive another man of his life,
however much he might merit depriva-
tion.
Ambrose Pratt, who is labelled busi-
nessman, as well as author, journalist
and playwright, and wears one of the
few beards seen in Melbourne (apart
from those on service chins), knows a
lot about Asia and its denizens. He’s
travelled widely in China, Thailand and
Malaya, whereabouts he has interest in
and is director of 12 tinmining shows.
In pre-war days he cut a big enough
figure to hobnob with the aristocracy
and even the royalty of those lands. The
mines are now in Jap hands. Pratt has
written numerous books; also a play
which had a run at Melbourne Comedy.
The play’s personnel included a philoso-
phising Chinese ancient and a heroic
Australian airman who rescued a party
from a beleaguered mission. Not many
really got the hang of what it was all
about, but it was full of good intentions,
and there was a first-class explosion at
the finish.
The devastating drought that withered
the hopes of prospective Australian
knights at the New Year left one flourish-
ing exception, John Cowan, of S.A., a
Legislative Councillor there for upwards
of 30 years. Coming of pioneering stock,
Cowan was born 77 years ago, and his
main interests have been pastoral and
farming. His Murray River property,
Glen Lossie, where Mat and his mate once
got a job (B, 5/1/’44), is today one of the
finest on the river. In politics Cowan has
been several times a Minister, and was
KNIGHT JOHN COWAN.
for 20 years Government Whip in the
Legislative Council. One of his many
good deeds for his State had to do with
reclamation of Murray swamplands,
A week or two back it was announced
that Squadron-Leader Hedley Nevile
Fowler, of the R.A.F., had won the M.C.,
which airmen don’t normally get. For
“security reasons” the exploit that won
him the decoration could not be revealed,
but it was part of his adventures since
being shot down last May. Squadron-
Leader Fowler’s mother hailed from
South Australia, his father from Eng-
land, and he himself was born on his
father’s native heath, but did his first fly-
ing with the R.A.A.F. in 1937. Back in
the Tobruk days another R.A.A.F. man,
Flying-Officer A. E. O. Barras, former
Fitzroy (Melbourne) cricketer, also won
an army decoration, the M.M. Barras
was forced down in the desert, and in
the 22-days’ trek back to his own side
through enemy lines gathered a stack of
very useful information.
The appointment of Commander
Anthony Cecil Miers, V.C., D.S.O. and
bar, as British Liaison Officer with the
U.S. Pacific Fleet will be anything but
good news to the Japs. It promises a
British Navy share of the fighting in
these waters, probably of a kind that the
Japs will like least of all. Commander
Miers is a submarine man, and, as his
MIERS, V.C.
decorations indicate, a confirmed fighter.
Most noted for his exploits in command
of the Torbay, which sunk a swag of
Axis shipping in the Mediterranean,
Miers, after other R.N. service afloat,
had a scratch crew when he first went to
sea as a submarine commander. Some
of them hadn’t even tasted spray before,
let alone been to sea in a sub. Yet the
day was to come when the commander
and his entire complement were to go to-
gether to Buckingham Palace to be
“gonged” by the King—the first time an
entire ship’s company had been thus
decorated. Commander Miers had had
some; association with Australians before
he lately blew into these parts to take
over his liaison job—his sub. rescued 50
Diggers and 60 of their Maoriland cob-
bers from Crete.
Clarrie Grimmett is 51, having had a
birthday on Christmas Day, which in past
years came right in the middle of the
Queensland - South Australia match.
Clarrie is as dangerous as ever, to young
players at least. In his last district match
he took seven for 50 on a good wicket,
with several men of local repute in the
bag.
E. Angus Jones, appointed to the board
of directors of Vacuum Oil in Australia,
is a Maorilander who joined the com-
pany’s staff in Christchurch in 1928 as
a salesman, and in 1939 became g.m.
for M.L.
The homely name of Jack Smith —he
has passed on at 48 in Hollywood—
cloaked the identity of one of the most
sinister influences in modern civilisation.
Jack was the first of the crooners to make
a hit, and so unique was his vocalisation
at the time that he was frequently re-
ported to be suffering from some bron-
chial complaint, and his obituary notice
appeared so often that he got tired of
issuing denials a la Mark Twain. Actu-
ally he had a baritone voice of respect-
able depth and volume, but there were
so many just as good that he conceived
the idea of singing in a hoarse whisper—
the style since carried to awful lengths.
Before he made his great discovery Jack
Smith toured Australia inconspicuously
in “Good News” in the ’twenties.
From John Brennan: —
War can get a man into out-of-the-way places
and all manner of jobs. Take 25-year-old Bruce
Houck, of Oregon (U.S.A.). Two years ago
with the Canadian Air Force and now boss
laundryman at a U.S. Navy camp on Guadal-
canal, he meanwhile took a hand also in the in-
vasion of North Africa. Houck had been play-
ing high-school football in various States for
three or four years—it’s as pleasant and as profit-
able a way of earning a living as any other he
reckons provided you can keep looking young
enough—till the urge for something a little
more exciting took him into the R.C.A.F. early
in 1941. When the Japs attacked Pearl Harbor
he had nearly finished training as a bomber
pilot. Americans in the Canadian forces were
then offered discharges, and Houck took his to
join up with the U.S. Army Air Corps. It
offered fo train him as an instructor because of
his experience with multi-engined ’planes, but
he dodged that by going down the street and
joining the Navy as a seaman, and eventually
went with the crew of a transport taking the
invasion troops to Africa. Houck’s ship was
one of those making the landing at Port
Lyautey, a strongly-fortified post 80 miles north
of Casablanca. Houck manned a machine-gun
in one of the assault boats leading the first wave
ashore, and he was twice nicked in the legs
by machine-gun bullets from strafing ’planes.
After that, return to the States, then, in Janu-
ary, ’43, the trip to the South Pacific. The
ship ferried troops during the New Georgia cam-
paign before Houck left her to take over the
care of washing machines. He’s come a fair
distance in a roundabout way, and his journey
isn’t finished yet.
“H.M.”: When Dave Switzer, of
Merrylands (N.S.W.), who was 103 last
August, had to go to hospital—
he broke down at the end of his
fortnightly tramp to collect his
pension—he claimed that it was the first
time he’d had to trouble the hospital.
Bronchitis, not old age, enforced his
three weeks’ hospital spell. Switzer first
saw Australia as a seaman on the old
Samuel Plimsoll 80 years ago.
Managing director of Die Casters,
Melbourne, Roy William Newton still has
in his office, along with other relics of a
colorful career, the aluminium kettle
which was the first article he made in the
foundry he started in his parents’ back-
yard at Essendon. There father fol-
lowed the ancient and honored trade
of blacksmith, and mother helped the
foundry along with £SOO. The manu-
facturer went broke, but eventually
started again, this time at tool-making
and die-casting. A pioneer in this line,
he had to educate himself and others
on a seven years’ plan. In bed after an
accident, he invented the suction-
operated windscreen wiper, and the money
he made out of it founded a business
which was preparing for the present war
long before it started. Landing in New
York on the day Hitler attacked the Low-
lands, Newton, as Commonwealth Gov-
ernment representative, purchased a mil-
lion pounds’ worth of tools intended for
France ; they arrived in Australia about
the time Hitler was making his Armis-
tice oration in the railway carriage
at Versailles. Newton has since visited
America on several special Governmental
jobs. When Japan came into the war he
was called on to make sub-machine guns,
and within 150 days they were in mass
production. Now, at 43, employing 850
hands, he has as recreations owning race-
horses, a farm of 30,000 chic/.ens and ex-
cogitating more inventions, including new
methods of dehydrating fruit and vege-
tables.
One of the busiest artists in Victoria is
Albert Dunstan. As well as teaching art
at Melbourne Grammar, he runs a farm
of 12 acres at Bayswater, with bees,
goats, fowls, sheep, fruit and vegetables,
and he does his own haymaking, too. He
hands a lot of his production over to
Red Cross and Comforts.
Into the silence: —■
At 85, Lazarus Blashki. He and his brother
Joel were the best-known twins in Melbourne.
They also claimed to be the oldest. Lazarus
pioneered cigarette-making for sale in Aus-
tralia and was held to have been the first book-
maker to be licensed in the Commonwealth —
at Canning Park (W.A.). f
In Adelaide, at 86, Thomas Grigg, who was
already a musician when he came from England
in 1877. He was in the Adelaide Theatre Royal
orchestra for many years, working up to be
leader and finally conductor. Further study of
the violin under Heinecke at the Uni. Conserva-
torium led him to a large private leaching
practice in stringed instruments; Harold Parsons
the ’cellist was one of his students. Grigg was
also for many years conductor of the Adelaide
Orchestral Society.
At 71, at Wellington (M.L.), George Her-
bert Harper, grandson of Christchurch’s first
C. of E. bishop. A fluent Maori scholar, Harper
proved a good friend to the Maori at Otaki,
where he practised law from 1899 to 1924, later
taking to farming.
At 75, Alfred Ernest Warburton, .chairman of
directors of the oldest hardware business in Mel-
bourne. It was founded by his father in Little
Bourke-street in 1852.


Society
"AND IT'S PRINTED
WITH WIMBLE'S INKS"
“Tuart”; Summer’s in and so is sail-
ing, and in Sydney that means squealing.
In other seaboard cities the pastime has
no such ugly feature; in Sydney the
squealing starts as soon as the Sunday
races are over and surges into the sport-
ing columns. Illegal interference is
charged ; a skipper announces his retire-
ment, alleging that he didn’t get a fair
go ; other skippers are accused of running
stiff ; umpires are savagely aspersed—and
so it goes on every week and all the
season until winter clamps down on the
“sport.” As a rule the squealing comes
via the pocket, for betting is rampant.
It used to be said that you could stand
on a Circular Quay pavement and hear
the odds being called on the boatraces
from tied-up ferries, and though book-
makers have had to subdue their voices
they are still abundantly in evidence on
craft and foreshores. There is an old
connection between the Sunday-sailing
business and professional football, and
in the sporting columps you read admir-
ing references to the rude health of the
retired leather-chasers who have found a
new outlet for their energies, to the
massive proportion of young men among
the crews and to the large number of boats
engaged. With the ever-increasing de-
mand for patrol work in bays and inlets
up north it is rather astonishing that so
many sturdy fellows who might be useful
in that capacity can be spared for sailing,
with its accompaniments of betting and
squealing, but then there are many aston-
ishing things about Sydney sport in its
relation to the war effort.
* * * *
“Oxmead”: To set against the occu-
pant of the Melbourne dock who
addressed the Beak as “your Majesty” (B.
19/1/’44) I recall a Westralian goldfields
mayor who gave a State Governor the
title of “y’r Worship,” persistently
repeated. His Ex., I think, took it as
rather a pleasant change.
* * *
“Pitt St.”: A few of us were trying to
submerge our sorrows in the time-honored
way, and the talk (of course) took the
turn of recalling the “good old days”
when you could buy beer, smokes and
petrol freely, get a good feed in any cafe,
go off on boat or train trips to distant
parts and so forth. “Yair,” murmured
lackson in that sadly-sweet tone which
implies a longing for an old pain which
memory now makes a pleasure, “and
remember the times we used t’ go crook
and threaten to transfer our custom be-
cause the butcher sold the missus a bit
of tough beef or palmed stewing steak
on to her for rump?” Somebody called
for drinks to drown the sighs, but the
barmaid shook her head sadly, and sadly
we drifted away,
* * * *
“Homebush Haunter”: It would pay
professional ticktackers to spend a day
at the Sydney pig sales and there learn
from masters the art of the hidden signal.
Watching a crowd of buyers registering
bids would be instructive as well as fasci-
nating. One astute operator leans on the
rails and stares sadly at a paint-spot on
the pen gate, only his moving thumb a
sign of his interest. Others gaze impas-
sively at the pork, and now and then
scratch an ear or cast a furtive glance at
the auctioneer’s offsider. Winks, quirks
of eye, nose or lips play their part, and
the more mobile the face the speedier
the bidding. Then there is the bloke who
stands below the auctioneer, sticks his
head between the latter’s feet, watches
his opponents closely and either taps or
affectionately squeezes the ankle beside
him at the right time. For his part,
though he shouts and gesticulates, the
auctioneer misses not the slightest move-
ment.
“Clooter”: Browsing through Barrack
Room Ballads I wondered what Kipling
would have thought of our women sol-
diers. Though he conceded that the
colonel’s lady and Judy O’Grady were
sisters under their skins, I doubt if the
man from Bombay would have been
capable of making the mental somersault
necessary to writing stirring verse about
Waafs and Wrans —or the man who
wrote “The Private of the Buffs” either.
Just fancy a ballad beginning “Last night
among her fellow-Waafs She jested,
quaffed and swore,” or ending “You’re
a better girl than I am, Jenny Din!”
“Thank heaven you've caught me!"
“Neocleer”: Supporters of the idea that
parents have the right to limit their off-
spring to a number that will enable the
family income to provide adequate food,
clothing, comfort and education for said
offspring are invariably to be found
among the more thoughtful and intelli-
gent sections of the community. There
is also the type which believes it to be
criminal to bring children into a world
which, in their opinion, has a black
future. Both types either overlook the
fact that, if intelligent people limit off-
spring while non-intelligent people go on
producing ’em, the logical end is elimi-
nation of the intelligent, or they take the
Schopenhaurian view that existence is a
curse.
* * * *
“Spokeshave”; When I feel overbur-
dened with my own troubles as a vege-
table-grower in need of equipment these
days I think of the man in dark glasses
who stood silently alongside me in a
Melbourne hardware store and waited
until the harassed salesman gave him his
attention. “I want an eighth-inch twist
drill,” he said. “We can’t supply it with-
out a permit,” rapped the salesman. “But
I am a piano-tuner,” said the customer,
“and that is an essential occupation.”
“Can’t help it,” replied the salesman.
“You will have to go to the X Depart-
ment and get a form of application, then
go and get a J.P. to witness it and then
lodge it with Department Y, and then
go to” “Where is the X Depart-
ment?” asked the man in dark glasses.
The salesman told him, and he turned his
back and walked off, with his head held
stiffly back in the way the blind have and
his stick feeling its way between the rows
of showcases, piles of spades and shovels
and other impedimenta until he reached
the pavement. There he stood reorientat-
ing himself for a few seconds, and then
started tapping his way to his objective.
* * * *
“D.E.”: Musing sadly on “S. M.
Herald’s” reproduction of the Archibald
Prize painting and its critic’s rhapsodies
on painter, subject and effort (I am sure
The Bulletin’s old editor would have
mused even more sadly), I turned for re-
freshment to Dickens, In the loved
volumes I made two discoveries: the
sitter, at least in the “Herald” illustra-
tion, resembles Sim Tappertit, as drawn
by “Phiz,” and the critic seems to have
gone to another Dickensian character for
his mapner of writing. Parallel columns,
Mr. Printer! ;
Critic.
An air of grotesque
contemplation, a cer-
tain depth and wistful-
ness permeate the
work. It reveals itself
not only in the fea-
tures and the long,
clasped hands, but in
every line of the sitter’s
angular body. Any
seeming physical gro-
tesqueness effaces itself
and becomes a natural
part of this mood.
Creating a man in
the simplicity of every-
day existence, Dobell
reaches profundity by
his understanding of
this life which, at this
instant, he has realised
and merged with his
own nature.
Mr. Curdle.
The unities are a
completeness, a kind
of universal dovetailed-
ness with regard to
place and time —a sort
of a general oneness,
if I may be allowed
to use so strong an
expression. I find in
the performances of
this child [turning to
the Phenomenon] a
unity of feeling, a
breadth, a light and
shade, a warmth of
coloring, a tone, a
harmony, a glow, an
artistic development of
original conceptions
which I look for in
vain among older per-
formers.
The “Herald” critic, a Mr. Haefliger,
notoriously shares Mr. Curdle’s contempt
for “older performers.” I have often
wondered why Archibald didn’t endow
a prize for literature instead of art. He
knew a great deal about writing, very
little about painting.
* * * *
“Strict Veg.”; The arrival of meat
rationing ought to bring back that ancient
and noble institution the stockpot. Ana-
tole France in one of his books mentions
a stockpot which had been kept going in
his family for 80 years, and there was one
in my boyhood’s home which had been
functioning without a break as far back
as I could remember. It was kept sim-
mering on the side of the stove, and into
it was thrown all the scraps, bones and
other oddments which the modem house-
wife ordinarily bestows on the dustbin.
Every day it was boiled to prevent botu-
linus or other pests developing, and out
of it came the foundation for magnificent
soups and gravies. The only drawback is
that it won’t work properly with the elec-
tric or gas stove —part of the price we
have to pay for modern progress.
* * * *
“Pictor”: I rise to beg the proprietors
of picture theatres to abstain from a prac-
tice which is driving me nuts. I refer
to those to-drawings and fro-drawings of
the inner, light-colored curtain. The
outer, heavy chenille or velvet-pile curtain
I can bear. When it is drawn it is drawn.
Its yea is its yea and its nay is its nay,
so to speak. But the much-pleated inner
curtain lingers in position for some
moments after the commencement of
each film and is a fixture while such
patriotic symbols as the Union Jack,
George VI and Heroes of the Forces
buttress the strains of the National
Anthem or “Advance Australia’s Fare.”
The last time I saw his Majesty in these
circumstances he had lost an eye and was
leering. The time before that he had a
squint and a broken nose.
* * * *
“Oxmead”: In one essential respect I
should rank the late C. T. B. Turner as
the greatest bowler Australia ever sent to
England, i.e., that he scored his biggest
successes in uphill games. The teams of
1888 and 1890 both finished with records
that would be counted dismal nowadays;
they had only a single victory to set
against five defeats in Test matches, and
there were first-class counties which could
put a better batting side into the field.
But through it all Turner and his youth-
ful coadjutor Ferris plugged resolutely
away, putting up a record for sheer
endurance as well as for stacks of wickets
that was nothing short of amazing. Their
differences in pace and style doubtless
helped. Ferris was induced by the re-
doubtable “W.G.” to stay in England and
qualify for Gloucestershire ; strange to
say, he lost his bowling almost entirely,
but became quite a useful bat. He re-
turned to Australia and played in inter-
colonial” cricket again, not successfully ;
then joined up for the Boer War. He died
in Durban aged only 33.
* sje * ♦
“Artex”: There are people who foam
at the mouth at the very idea of pre-
fabricated, standardised dwelling houses,
but apparently there were none of them
on the committee of the Institute of
Engineers which recently presented a very
practical and intelligent report on the
subject to the Commonwealth Housing
Commission. The committee argues that
if motor-cars were built under the same
conditions as Australian houses
they would cost 12 times as much
as they do. Mass-production and
standardisation mean vast
economy. The report rises to
Solomonic heights of wisdom
when it suggests that a few designs
should be prepared and specimen
houses placed at the service of
average tenants so that defects
might be discovered and remedied.
That is very necessary. The most
comfortable and convenient house
I ever lived in (most of the furni-
ture was built-ift) had been owned
and occupied by a builder who,
as a dutiful husband, made altera-
tions and additions whenever his
wife discovered these to be desir-
able —and she went on making
suggestions for six years.
* * * •
“S.T.S.”: When “C. Ma” says
(B. 29/12 / ’43) that we are “in-
clined to snigger at opera,” he
mentions the Italian brand in
general, but for an example cites
“Lohengrin” and the swan, so it
must be the Wagnerian brand that
he really means. Give Verdi a
castle and a dungeon and a pair
o| swords, and he was content.
But I can remember Bernard
Shaw, as dramatic critic to the “Saturday
Review” 50 years ago, saying that the only
place where these new Wagner stunts
could get properly staged was in London.
The dragons and swans were, as presented
on the Continent, apt to look mere comic
cardboard figures; London’s property
men, with their long experience of
just such things in the Christmas panto-
mime, could turn them out properly.
YE MARINERS
“The Rationing Commission has directed that meat
for seamen in ships may be ordered on the basis of
lOJlb. a man weekly, or 131 b. if coupons are sur-
rendered for the extra amount. Thirty per cent, of
the meat is to be beef.”
Ye mariners of Aussie,
You tars who leave the quays
On many a gallant merchantman
That plies around our seas,
Although you’ve lots to grumble at*,
’Twill comfort you to know
You’ll have sufficiency of meat
Inside your holds to stow,
While the ration battle rages loud
Wherever landsmen go.
The lobscouse of your fathers
You’ll still be nourished by,
And still be free to sink your teeth
in succulent sea-pie.
While lusfy colliers, shearers, too,
With sharp resentment glow
At scarcity of steaks and chops,
You’re left in statu quo
(That is, as far as meat’s concerned)
Where stormy winds do blow.
Australia needs restrictions
For Britain’s aid to keep
A decent quota from her store
Of cattle and of sheep.
That we should pay the Motherland
Part of the debt we owe
In what she’s worst provided with
Is surely comme il faut.
But should our seamen feel the pinch?
Emphatically, no!
Ye mariners of Aussie,
Give thanks you’re spared the grief
Of ’minished mutton on the board
And all-but-vanished beef.
You’ve scored a point that none of us
Who stay ashore can show
As you sweep through the deep
To earn your daily dough
And wait the signal to assault
Your victuals down below.
N.S.W.
T. THE R.
HASTY ROMANCES.
Tis a word from avuncular Sam oversea
With the many-starred vest and the waving
goatee m
To the lads he has sent to our part of the map
For spoking the wheels of the treacherous Jap:
“Be careful,” he warns, “and avoid the mis-
chances
So often attendant on hasty romances.”
Says Samuel so sage, if I read him aright,
“It’s easy to talk about love at first sight,
But it shouldn’t result in a pledge and a ring
Until you’re assured it’s the genuine thing.
No need to let flitting and fugitive fanciss
Assume the importance of budding romances.
“Six months you susceptible guys must await
Official permission for fixing the date
Of the wedding. And then, there are figures to
prove
Quite half of you want to abandon the move
You’ve planned to the altar. Which clearly
enhances
Yonr Uncle’s objections to hasty romances
“Not alone for your good my advice I repeat
But for that of the girls you may happen to
meet,
And my counsel, it’s likely, approval will find
Among some that you’ve left willy-nilly behind.
Eschew honeyed nothings and amorous glances,
The commonest preludes to hasty romances.
“War’s sure an incentive to courtship,” says he
With the star-spangled vest and the waving
goatee,
“But leisured repentance may well be the fate
Of couples who click at a hurricane rate.
So heed the injunctions your Uncle advances
For putting the brake upon hasty romances.”
N.S.W.
MIDFORD.


“W.P.T.”: Designers of Australian
coins should have some consideration for
important Australian institutions. The
current penny with the King’s head on
one side and the kangaroo on the reverse
is reckoned useless for two-up, therefore
men concerned with the traditions of this
enterprise have to pay black-market
prices for two-up pennies. Coins with
the King’s head on one side and “the
woman on the wheel” on the reverse
bring as much as ten bob a pair. “It’s
pretty tough,” a much-revered expert
complains, “when Australian pennies are
no good for Australia’s national game.”
♦ * * *
“Lao-dah”: The Gackwars of Baroda
have always been a bit out of the
ordinary run of Indian rulers. The
present incumbent has scandalised his
2,400,000 subjects by contravening his
own law of 1942 banning polygamy in
his kingdom—he has married a land-
owner’s daughter while his first wife is
still living. Baroda is in the forefront of
social progress, as social progress goes in
India; but that was the doing of the
present Gaekwar’s father. That old man
had his salute reduced from 21 guns to
13 for retiring with his back turned from
the royal presence at a Durbar, though
he explained and apologised. I travelled
with that Gaekwar and his wife on a
liner returning from England to India.
His wife wore a different sari every day,
ertch more lovely than the last. Her
spouse was vastly interested in my baby,
which spent its time in a cot in a
sheltered position on the deck. The
Gaekwar each morning parked himself
in a long chair behind the cot whistling
to the infant as if it were a canary. For
some reason or other this almost absolute
monarch, with an income of £2,000,000
and treasure said to be worth more than
£400,000,000, who was in difficulties with
the British raj because of his radical
notions, appeared to get an unalloyed and
artless pleasure out of watching the re-
actions of the baby, much to the concern
of its mother. We were both relieved
when the potentate disembarked incon-
spicuously at Bombay.
* * * *
“H.W.M.”: Frederick Mann’s retire-
ment as Chief Justice of Victoria recalls
that in the period of close on a century
since the establishment of responsible
government the State has had only six
Chief Justices. Five —Stawell, Higin-
botham, Madden, Irvine and Mann—had
long reigns. William a’Beckett served
for only two years. The Victorian
Supreme Court Library preserves its
librarians well, too. The library was
founded in 1854, and the first regular
librarian, appointed in 1866, was John
Schutt (father of Justice Schutt). He has
had only two successors —L. F. S. Robin-
son and E. H. Coghill, the present
librarian. Schutt, who held the office for
over half a century, was not a lawyer.
« « * *
“Listening Insect”: A bigger curse
than the armchair expounders of the war
scene are the music commentators. When
I settled down to listen to a nice piece
of orchestral music my peace was
shattered by the announcement that
Mr. X was going to be so kind
as to “explain” it. “Here come the
oboes,” said the voice of Mr. X. “That’s
the bass violin —you can recognise it,” he
continued. And then, with a rising note
of excitement in his voice like unto the
style affected by the gents who describe
horse races, “That is the motive in the
second movement returning.” You can’t
talk back at a radio commentator, un-
fortunately, or I should have liked to ask
him how he would like to hear a novel
read in that way. “I see an adjective
approaching; here is a split infinitive ;
there are no fewer than 45 ‘ands’ on that
page!*’ Music, like poetry, should be
listened to en masse ; to pick out details
is to destroy the effect completely,
* * * *
“Bump”: It is largely officialdom
which prevents Australian vignerons seek-
ing a reputation for their best wines. A
Victorian vigneron had the experience
of having a wine (the-best he had ever
produced) passed by the Health Depart-
ment and rejected by the Customs be-
cause its alcohol content didn’t comply
with the department’s schedule for a wine
of its type. How can a vigneron develop
a reputation for a wine as good as and
possibly superior to brands which have a
centuries-old reputation in Europe if he
is hampered by arbitrary and irrelevant
regulations? Port, chablis, burgundy and
Other varieties of wine were originated
by individuals, often monks, growing dif-
ferent sorts of grapes in various sorts of
soils and climates. There are parts of
Europe where vineyards are deeply
trenched in rich soil and others where
the grape is grown in shallow, poor soil.
Naturally they produce juices of widely
varying flavors and alcoholic content. The
Australian system would have strangled
most of the wine varieties at birth.
“Pitt St.”: It is held by opponents of
tobacco-rationing that to issue coupons
would mean non-smokers getting extra
supplies for their smoker friends. There
are so few non-smokers that it wouldn't
matter, and rationing would cramp the
style of the female hoarder. In a queue
the other morning 1 heard one boast that
she’d already got four packets that morn-
ing and hoped to have four more “before
dinner.” That’s 80 cigarettes. Her mate
confessed to having so far acquired only
three packets, but she intended working
“We're a third of a coupon her way—kin you work it out in cutlets?”
the double in the present queue “if it lasts
long enough,” and there was a place she
knew of on the way home where she’d
get more. If rationing did no more than
stop her kind it would be worth while.
* * * *
“Pip”: Letters and papers from home
are filled with the wild surprise of queues.
We’d forgotten there was such a thing
as life without them, for from reveille
to lights out they mould our existence.
The day starts with coffee queue at 0610 ;
then follow queues for sick parade,
shower, breakfast, reading the wall news-
paper, drawing the day’s tools, lunch,
mail, returning tools, evening meal, get-
ting a book from the library, taking a
turn at ping-pong or baby billiards, shop-
ping at the canteen, buying postage
stamps and again for coffee in the even-
ing. Also there are weekly queues for
beer and smokes and a fortnightly queue
for pay. There are periodical queues
for medical and dental overhaul, vaccina-
tions and inoculations and kit replace-
ments, and queues for kerosene for the
lamp, straw for the palliasse and water
from the pump.
* * * *
“Ologist”: To produce “a final
authority” (B. 19/1/’44) on any question
relating to the ever-growing, ever-chang-
ing English language seems rather a tall
order, for the language bristles with dis-
puted and disputable points of grammar,
pronunciation, spelling, etc. In the matter
of the correct syllabification of the word
“ideal,” however, there seems to be “no
shadow of doubt whatever.” I have con-
jsulted many dictionaries, from Webster’s
sizable New International to the Pocket
Oxford, and they all agree in regard to
the pronunciation of “ideal” — syl-
lables, with the stress on the “e,” as
“S.T.S.” states. No matter how poets,
radio announcers and certain others mis-
treat the word, the unanimity of the dic-
tionaries is “a final authority” that should
be accepted without cavil.
* * * *
“C.Q.”: During the Victorian bush-
fires there was presented the spectacle of
a police car speeding to the scene with
streams of sparks pouring from its gas-
producer. When a civilian owner who
was emptying his coke block-buster on to
the wayside was remonstrated with he
retorted: “Why shouldn’t I do it if the
cops do?” A prison term is suggested
for gas-producer owners who offend in
this direction; but why make a special
case of one class?
* * * *
“Harold Hardupp”: Sydney was once
full of easy get-aways through buildings
(B. 12/1/’44), and sometimes chains of
buildings. Many were recognised right-
of-ways for which the users fought hotly
if there was any threat of interference.
But the stout old spirit has gone and
many openings have been closed without
protest. These short cuts always inter-
ested me ; at one time I could have guided
the curious from Erskine-street to Hyde
Park without once passing a street corner.
The newest David Jones store ended a
little-known path through three build-
ings, giving communication between Pitt,
Castlereagh and Market streets. Quite a
number still remain. In the Adams Trust
building there is a right-of-way through
“May I go now, sir? The tobacco queue is only a hundred yards long.”
from Pitt- to George-street. As to pubs,
my theory is that in the days when im-
prisonment for debt still existed owners
of hostelries deliberately provided avenues
of easy escape as a bait to free spenders.
Anyway every pub in former days, be-
sides its side doors, had back entrances
that led ultimately into a street that was
not the one—or two, pubs being mainly
corner institutions—the hotel faced.
* * * *
“F.S.”: According to a cable thou-
sands of England’s most picturesque vil-
lages are doomed to vanish after the war.
The poky, thatched cottages, rusty pumps
and muddy lanes will be replaced by
modern homes with all the amenities of
civilisation, the lack of which, according
to the planners, has done much to make
the village idiot a frequent feature of
rural England. Possibly it has, but I
doubt if even the village idiot would be
so silly as to destroy the thing that makes
England different from other countries.
The beauty and charm of the Old Dart
reside in its rural architecture, which is
the finest in Europe. The post-war
planners should give the picturesque old
villages modern sanitation, as was done
at Clovelly and other places, and leave
their total removal to Nazi bombers.
* * * *
“Eureka”; On Monaro lived a woman
fortune-teller. Her fame spread far, so
far that a detect ; ve went to have his for-
tune told. “I’ll tell you what you have
in your pockets,” she told him. “You
have some silver and gold, a few coppers
and a silk handkerchief.” “Is that all?”
asked the detective. “No,” she replied ;
“in another pocket you have a pipe, some
tobacco and matches and a watch.” “Is
that all?” he asked. “That’s the lot,”
she told him. “Not quite,” said the plain-
clothes man, putting his hand in his coat
pocket, “Here’s a summons to appear in
court.”
* * H* *
“J.H.M.A.” unleashes some highway
lore; —•
The old northern road connecting the Hawkes-
bury and Hunter rivers is the junior of the
great highways that opened up early N.S.W. to
the pioneers of outback. Not until 10 years
after Blaxland, Wentworth and Lawson got
across the Blue Mountains was the stretch of
wild and rugged country lying between Port
Hunter and Broken Bay traversed by a white #
man on any journey of which authentic record
exists, though there is little doubt that one or
two runaway convicts had been through it.
On April 25, 1825, Major Morrissett, the “flog-
ging commandant” at Newcastle, set out alone
on an overland journey to Sydney, and took
nine days to reach Windsor on the Hawkesbury.
It was a rough and strenuous journey, and Mor-
rissett estimated that the distance he travelled,
owing to almost impassable ravines and pre-
cipitous heights he had to get round, wasn’t far
short of 170 miles —it is hardly 50 as the ’plane
flies. In 1829 Sir Thomas Mitchell, Surveyor-
General, planned a highway across the ranges,
but it wasn’t until 1835 that the main road link-
ing the two valleys was completed by the labor
of several large chain-gangs. Horseback traffic
along a rough bridle path, however, had soon
followed on Morrissett’s pioneering effort.
* * * *
“Sixenate”: The matron in the dock
was charged with attempted suicide.
There was evidence of two previous
attempts, each after an occasion of great
joy. Accused had withstood with great
fortitude deaths in the family, financial
losses and other tribulations, and was
normally a contented, useful person ; but
when her daughter married a man of
whom she heartily approved Mother
tried to drown herself in the bath. The
day after her first grandchild was born
she essayed to cut her throat, and on
the very day that one of her sons (pre-
viously reported missing) came back safe
and well she threw herself into the
river. As she was strictly t.t., depres-
sion following on alcoholic indulgence
was ruled out. A kindly magistrate
bound the woman over to the care of
friends, who will watch her carefully to
see that, if she wins the lottery, she
doesn’t throw herself under a tram.
* » * *
“Chevroford”: Victorian Railways
Department is celebrating the 90th anni-
versary of the opening of the first rail-
way line in Victoria by starting on the
construction of two suburban trains of
14 Tait cars of the latest and most
luxurious design. The first electric train
in Australia, so the Victorian Railway
people claim, ran from Essendon to
Sandringham in 1919. The first steam
train, which started on its journey in
1854, didn’t boast a steam locomotive.
Two, ordered from England, had failed
to arrive, but the engineers were nothing
daunted. The four carriages drew off to
schedule, and disappeared from view at
a speed of 10 m.p.h. to the astonishment
and awe of an immense crowd, including
Governor Hotham, A donkey-engine
lashed to a truck provided haulage.
* * # *
“Ken”: I don’t dispute the eri'.cacy of
rhyming couplets as an aid to recalling
dates, but can anyone tell me why the
one date in English history that everyone
remembers should stick without any such
aid —“Battle of Hastings, 1066”?


ABORIGINALITIES
“Old-timer”: “Curyo” Charlie, broke,
climbed aboard the Hopetoun train at
Minyip (Vic.) from the wrong side and
found himself in a compartment empty
save for a foreigner and his wife. Charlie
was about to pass along when the
foreigner hurriedly caught his sleeve,
shoved a railway ticket at him and ex-
claimed “Meestah, she is da r-r-righta
terain, yes?” Charlie looked at the
ticket, took it and stepped to the window
to read it. Then he reached out and got
the woman’s ticket and read it, too.
Then he fished in his vest pocket for an-
other ticket, compared the three and,
handing back their tickets, told the
foreigners “Yes, she’s right,” They
thanked him and shrieked volubly at each
other as “Curyo” stepped into the corri-
dor and passed from their ken. Thus
Charles got to Hopetoun without trouble,
displaying only a mild interest at Rose-
bery when the guard loudly demanded of
the foreigner whatinell he thought he
was doing trying to travel on a ticket of
admission to the Dimboola picture
theatre.
* * * *
“Sdu’-west”: I am sorry to learn from
“Plankton” (B. 15/12/’43) that the dark
southern skua is such a bad character.
Hitherto I had regarded him and her as
quite the best of pals. Out line fishing
on the lonely southern ocean we could
always be sure of the company of one
or two of these sooty-plumaged birds.
For hours they would hang around quite
close in astern. And being much after
the shape of a goose they were comfort-
ing to look upon when the eyes grew
tired of the heaving greyness. Of course,
they were merely hanging around in the
hope of picking up fragments of bait and
fish, though possibly they liked our
company. But now that our old pals
have been exposed as ruthless killers of
weaker birds —well, that’s another pleasant
illusion gone.
$ * * *
“Korongah”: It was a particularly
good season in our wheatgrowing dis-
trict, and old Hermann, finding himself
with oceans of grass, bought 30 young
bullocks. There were - several rogues
in that little mob, and they wrought
havoc with his fences and excavated
tanks. In desperation he rang an agent
and told him to put them on his books
for private sale. The agent, jotting down
particulars, finally asked what colors they
were. “Colors! ” said Hermann ; then,
after a thoughtful pause, “blues, blacks,
buffs, brindles and blankards—mostly
blankards.”
“Louden”: To Cookardinia in eastern
Riverina came Mick with his team
of bullocks. Pulling on to the small un-
fenced reserve beside the Government
tank he unyoked, and after watering the
beasts at the creek went to the only pos-
sible place. It was Saturday afternoon,
and nearly all the district people had
gone away with the cricket team to a
near-by township, so while Mick drank
deep the bullocks began an inspection of
adjacent ripening crops. Next morning
“What word are you looking for , Dig.?”
Cookardinia woke to find a strange bul-
lock in each crop. Sometime later, when
14 curseful horsemen, accompanied by 34
assorted dogs, had mustered 14 working
bullocks on the reserve, they held an in-
dignation meeting, after which two of
their number went in search of the oxen-
conductor. They found him lying on his
back under the perches in the fowlhouse
in the pub yard decorated like a Christ-
mas cake. “Garn!” said Mick when the
spokesman, having given him the news,
firmly told him to get back to his outfit,
“them blanky bullicks o’ mine wouldn’t
go ’way from their blanky wagon, an’,
besides, there isn’t a so-an’-sd man in this
blanky building who can blanky well put
me out!”
* * * *
“Esk D.”; Old Dan got the bi-weekly
mail run, and so put into use again the
ancient utility, the brakes of which had
long gone the way of all lining. Was
riding into the township with him, and
we topped a rise at 30 m.p.h., to find a
mob of bush Herefords cavorting on the
steep descent as a stockman galloped to
turn them. Dan grabbed for the gear-
stick. There was a crunch of grinding
metal as cogs were stripped of teeth and
torn from their foundations. The terror
wobbled drunkenly off the road, miracu-
lously missed cattle and tree stumps ; then
Dan revved up, shrieked down into first
gear with another grind of tortured steel,
slewed the utility uphill, leaped out to
thrust a handy stone behind a rear wheel.
“There!” said Dan, “what did I tell y’?
Now, ain’t y’r engine just as good for
pullin y’ up as brakes?”
* * * *
“Horseless Horseman”: Saw a gun
shearer on Noonkanbah in the Kimber-
leys bitten on the stomach by a large
green centipede (B. 22/12/’43); it put
him to bed for days, and he didn’t push a
handpiece the whole season. Mention,
too, of where the crawlers house them-
selves recalls camping one night in the
huts at Tamala station, on the headwaters
of Shark Bay. A roaring fire in the
hearth brought so many patrols of the
multilegged crawlers and scorpions up
the rough stone walls from under-
neath the old floor that, cold and all that
it was, we beat a retreat to the open.
Centipedes are bad enough, but the stings
of the horned-tailed blokes can be fatal.
* * * *
If that Monaro bushman (B.
5/l/’44) had carried his research as far
afield as the headwaters of the Goul-
burn and its tributaries (Vic.), he would
have found that the ring-tailed possum
of those areas seldom produced more
than a single offspring at a birth, although
there have been exceptional cases where
three young ones have been found in the
pouch. These animals were seldom
found in timbered country, preferring the
dense ti-tree scrub of the swampy lands
and the margins of watercourses, where
they lived in small colonies in comfort-
able, neatly-constructed nests. X knew
that country before the rabbits had pene-
trated there, and when the marsupials
were unprotected. The flesh of those
possums was practically free of the rank,
musky odor common to that of other
members of the family.
“Uramao”; A rarity came ashore near
the mouth of Maoriland’s Wanganui
River recently in the shape of a goose-
beaked whale (Ziphius cavirostris ). In
80 years only eight have been seen in the
Dominion’s waters. The only other true
specimens found were also washed up ;
none has ever been taken at sea. This
particular ziph bore evidence of having
been savagely attacked by some other
marine monster, but the skeleton was fit
for mounting for museum purposes.
* * * *
“F.L.T.”: I saw the core from a
diamond drill which at 250ft. depth went
through a charred red-gum log 10 miles
from the Willandra Creek bridge, between
Mossgiel and Ivanhoe (N.S.W.). In the
same locality, some 30 miles out on the
plain, I saw a well-shaft sunk through
over 200 feet of soil without a stone to
an underground flowing stream; the
water, level in the shaft did not vary an
inch when pumped continuously with a
steam pump. Later I learned from some
of the abos. around those parts a legend
that ages ago the whole of inland Aus-
tralia was very densely timbered. The
ground in the forests was covered to a
great depth with debris and undergrowth.
Their tribal gods caused fire to fall from
heaven and set the forests ablaze. The
whole land was undulating, low ranges
with numerous permanent streams. After
the fire had burned for many moons and
left the land bare of vegetation and
covered with ashes and sand a period of
high winds set in, and loose earth and
ashes filled up the hollows and streams,
leaving the surface level and wind-swept.
All their kangaroos and emus were
destroyed, and the aborigines perished
from starvation in great numbers. It was
thus they accounted for the brown-eyed
crows, because the ancestors of the white-
eyed crows were caught in the smoke.
If there is anything in that legend it
would account for those great drifts of
sand mentioned by “Edjudina” (B.
5/1/’44) as now claiming so much of
Centralia.
* * * *
“Bo”: “Somehow I knew,” said Alf
Peters in his quiet, earnest-way, “that a
tree would be the end of young Fred
Carstairs. Three months before Fred was
born his father, who was also a champion
feller, was killed by a falling branch
during a big ‘drive.’ His mother hoped
and prayed that Fred would never take
to the Kelly, but it was in his blood. At
18 there was scarcely a man in the
Dorrigo country who could get within
cooee of his tally on the big stuff. What
is more, he seemed to know just what
any tree would do in the trickiest of
winds. He was a wizard, was Fred, but,
as I say, a falling tree was in his fate-
line. And he didn’t even have an axe in
his hand when it happened seven or eight
years afterwards. He had gone into
Sandfly in the jinker to pick up a couple
of new crosscuts. On the way back he
gave a lift to Mary, the daughter of the
Callaghans, who’ve got a place below the
ridge near Tiewire. A terrific storm came
up, and they were caught in heavily-
timbered country about five miles this
side of the Callaghan homestead. Fred
decided to run for it, and whipped the
horse to a gallop. Just then there
terrible flash of forked lightning and a
great tongue of blue flame leaped down a
big gum just off the narrow road. ' It
crashed, of course. Poor Fred!” “And
what about the girl?” asked Long Mick.
“Was she killed too?” “Who said any-
thing about Fred being killed?” said Alf.
“As that tree crashed 30 foot ahead of
tfiem Mary screamed and threw her
arms around Fred. They became engaged
next day, and were married three months
after that. She kidded him to open a
garage, and he’s still running it.”
* * * *
“Keel Row”; Victoria’s second Black
Friday in five years (and one day off the
anniversary of the first) produced one of
those inexplicable freaks of fate. With
all his neighbors’ brick residences blaz-
ing beyond control, and his own wooden
house encircled with advancing flames
and smoke, a resident of one township
walked away to spare himself the agony
of seeing it go. When he returned to
inspect the ruins he found that flame had
devoured everything within a couple of
miles—except his highly inflammable
shack.
■¥ * ¥
“Lower Tops’!”; Mention recently of
the 103-year-old teak-built hulk Marie
Laure being still afloat on the Yarra re-
calls another Melbourne lighter, the
Albert William. Built of iron at Sunder-
land just 80 years ago, this 487-ton vessel
was formerly the Liverpool-owned barque
that rescued the survivors from the ill-
fated Howard Smith passenger steamer
Dandenong on September 11, 1876. When
the s.s. broke her propeller shaft in the
worst gale known off Jervis Bay, and she
began to fill, the Albert William stood by
while the Dandenong’s three boats were
got away. One of the two boats , that
reached the sailer was heroically rowed
back to the sinking vessel while the
barque manoeuvred to leeward and
picked it up full of passengers. Later
the Dandenong foundered with 51 still on
board. Sold to German owners in the
’nineties, the Albert William was re-
named Elsa, and afterwards as a coal
hulk on the Yarra her identity was almost
unknown till 1932, when, found to be
still as sound as ever, together with her
original skylight, wheel, etc., she was
reconditioned as a cargo lighter and given
her old name.
* * * *
“Bass Strait Pirate”: Those authorities
who aver that the seals at Seal Rocks,
Westernport, do not hinder fishing would
do well to go out with Bert Hoppen, of
Flinders, one of the best-known fishermen
in Victoria. Then, in 19 fathoms off
Cape Schanck, they would find it’s not
unusual to lift craypots with dead seals
in them, nor, in the same depth of water,
to find, where skewers are used to secure
fish in pots, that the seals easily remove
the wooden spikes with their teeth and
devour all baits from the outside before
the crays get a go at them. Moreover,
towing lines astern for ’coota (or any fish
except pike) with the furry swimmer
about only heads would be brought
aboard, and the same thing to a lesser
degree with ground fishing. For real
destruction it is best to watch seals play-
ing in a shoal of salmon trout. After
they have had their fill they course single
fish up and down before biting them in
half, throwing them high in the air and
starting the chase again. Thirty-seven
years ago when Hoppen began fishing,
a seal around the Port Phillip Rip was
a novelty; today both inside and outside
the heads the seals are in dozens —I’ve
seen them myself—and it’s the same along
the whole Victorian coast,
EMILY JANE.
When I was courting Emily Jane
—And she was hard to woo—
I’d think, “If Bill would come again
He’d tell me what to do
To win a spinster’s heart and have
A home that was all my own.”
Silent was Emily as the grave
And her heart seemed made of stone.
Then, blow me tight! one moonlight night
Old Bill appeared to me.
Stepping along in the soft moonlight
On the river-bank, where we
Were strolling, silent and ill at ease
—We didn’t seem to click.
Old Bill came up like a sou’-west breeze
At his stride so light and quick.
“Ahoy! And what’s the game?” he says;
“Are you caught aback, my son?
Is she in irons and missing stays
Or down on her daily run?
She’s a handsome gal”—Old Bill’s remark
Was only for my ear.
“She looks like a battleship rigged as a barque,
But I'll wager she’ll sail and steer,”
Old Bill kept marching, fast and free,
Beside my Emily Jane;
And he hooks his arm and he winks at me,
Which his meaning was fairly plain;
For he'slipped his arm around her then
And he kissed her on the cheek.
Now Emily Jane ain’t used to men,
She gasps but she doesn’t speak.
She couldn’t sight Old Bill, you see.
But she seemed to come to life
And sort o’ sidled up to me
Like a cuddling kind o’ wife;
And she sighed and said “The moon’s so
bright.”
Bill kissed her cheek once more.
It didn’t appear to me quite right,
To make it a full encore.
So I up and I kissed the gal myself
And I said “Will you marry me?”
“Oh, dear! Poor me! Why, I’m on the shelf,”
Says she, and I grabbed her, see!
And pulled her away from Bill, who laughed,
“You can carry on now,” says he;
“Keep her full and bye. She’s a sonsy craft
Ann she’ll love you well, will she.”
And he turned to go, but I grabbed his arm,
Which Emily could not see;
“Stay here,” I said. “On our little farm
Is a place where a ghost should be.
You can live in haystacks or down the wells
And the bush is dark and fine.”
Old Bill replied ‘‘There’s seven bells,
And the middle watch is mine.
“We’re sailing, mate, on the midnight tide,
So fare you well! Perhaps
By dawn we’ll be out where the big bulls ride
In the rip around The Traps.
And we’ll be down at the Aucklands soon
And the Campbells and Kerguelen—
Free as the seas and the winds and the moon
Are the souls of the whalermen.
“When you want me again, just pipe me aft
And, mister,'l’ll be there.
You’ll be master now of a tidy craft
And here is a whaler’s prayer:
May you love your lass as your ship you’d love
And may she love you, too”. . .
And a ghost-light flickered the tide above
And a lonely ghest-wind blew.
N.S.W.
WILL LAWSON.


“Saintarno”: There are probably more,
but the Commonwealth postal guide lists
48 place-names composed of double abo.
words. Victoria is well out in front with
21 of ’em, of which Dart Dart, Drik Drik
and Gre Gre seem to be the gems;
N.S.W. is a fair second with 15, though
most are double-syllable words like
Wagga Wagga, Booti Booti and Elong
Elong. Queensland is a bad third with
six. Westralia has four, S.A. one, the
N.T. one, the Speck none. There are
some beauties among them, the very
sight of which causes a grin, like Ki Ki
(S.A.) or Morrl Morrl (Vic.); but in my
judgment the best of the lot is Goonoo
Goonoo (N.S.W.), chiefly because it’s
pronounced Gunna G’noo'and is a shin-
ing example of how an abo. word can be
Anglicised.
* * * *
“Golden Mile”: The point I liked best
about Ted the sawyer’s influenza-rum
adventure (B. 15/12/ ’43) was his instruc-
tion to his offsider to “draw the boiler
fire.” Having fired quite a few boilers,
several of which were closed down each
night and restarted next morning, I
think of how laborious those jobs would
have been had I “drawn the fires.” This
is what I did: As knock-off time drew
near I worked so as to get a thick bed of
ash and red coals on my firebars. On this,
as the last firing for the day, I piled in the
biggest logs at hand, at the same time
feeding water into the boiler until the
gauge glass showed nearly full. This
brought steam down, while it provided a
big margin for evaporation should steam
happen to rise through the night; the one
thing to be guarded against was water
getting so low as to uncover the crown
of the firebox. So, with the boiler well
filled with both fuel and water at knock-
off, I merely dropped the flue damper,
closed the ashpit with the plate provided
for the purpose, and departed. Return-
ing next morning 15 minutes before the
whistle I found a fair head of steam
still up, so all that was required was to
lift the damper and open the ashpit. In-
side a few minutes the fire would be roar-
ing, the big logs having heated through
overnight and become almost explosively
inflammable. And if steam did happen to
rise through the night—well, there were
two safety valves.
“This is my brother-in-law Would you mind explaining to him the
advantages of owning your OWN house."
“Wippegong”: Our particular patch of
jungle is peopled by weird and wonder-
ful wogs which are at once the despair
and the salvation of the boys. Salvation
because they compel attention and
interest, and thus keep occupied minds
which otherwise drift all too easily into
damaging ruts: despair, because you give
up trying to understand what the freaks
are for. Our flight-sergeant is eloquent
on the subject. “Look at that damn’
thing,” he says. “Just look at it! What
reason could anyone ever have for mak-
ing that? Would you make it? I
reckon the Almighty and Walt Disney
had a go-in up here and Disney won.”
And he wanders off, muttering that you
see queerer things here when you’re sober
than ever you did down south when you
were shickered. And it’s a 24-hour ser-
vice: just as the day shift crawls away
a fresh batch swarms around the lights.
On the wall in front of our “office” table
is a large map of New Britain, and be-
hind it lives a spider of terrifying
physique. Queer things come crawling
across the map, and the speculations hpon
the spider’s tactics are worthy of any
operations h.q. If the wog works up
toward Arawe his nibs may be expected
either to come across from Cape Glou-
cester or make a flank interception from
Arung Bay, but if it is foolish enough
to approach Rabaul there’s a swift de-
scent from Kavieng and that particular
incident is over. One excursion into
Talasea ended in swift disaster because
the spider, like William the Conqueror,
confounded his foe by dashing straight
over the ranges instead of coming around
them. Altogether, much time is pleasantly
passed, and other sections have found
occasion to pay tribute to the intensity
of our particular effort, as reflected in
our superior knowledge of vital geog-
raphy,
* * * *
“Bass Strait Pirate”: A lOin. nautilus
shell, miraculously washed up unbroken
on the rocks at Point Nepean (Vic.)
recently, was regarded as a novelty. Yet
a decade or so ago anywhere between
Wilson’s Promontory and Cape Otway
it was not uncommon to find dozens.
On the Quarantine Station beach at
Portsea, 16 years ago, J. Golightly found
480 shells intact that had come ashore
overnight.
* * * *
“Stanus”: Fears have been expressed
that rabbit-trappers will find regulations
ensuing from bureaucratic control of
their industry insurmountable obstacles,
and that they will finish up forming a
union and thus get the Government eat-
ing out of their hands in the approved
manner. However, after years of match-
ing wits with the furry pest the trapper is
not likely to be troubled by mere regula-
tions. I once thought that the rabbit-
trappers were going to form a union. At
Steinbrook in the Tenterfield (N.S.W.)
district about five years ago they banded
together in an unofficial sort of way, and
even went so far as to stage what was
described as “The First Annual Rabbiters
Ball,” proceeds in aid of the district
Agricultural Society. As the handbills
said, the function presented “a unique
opportunity of meeting this interesting
clan in their natural surroundings.” It
was a great success both financially and
socially, proceedings being enlivened by
two impromptu scraps and a woodchop,
all contested in the headlights of the
assembled cars. All the same, the trapper
isn’t by nature a gregarious soul, and an
organiser of such a union would have an
unenviable job.
* * * *
“B. A. Ker : The home-made-brew
bug bit Dad rather severely, and home
life ceased to be dull. At all hours or
the day and night a report followed by
“ Righto , boys—follow me!”
gurglings became the signal for a frantic
rush from cupboard to cupboard in
search of the bottle that had burst its
bounds. After Mum’s tablecloth and
Sis’s new dress had been ruined a corked
bottle in Dad’s hands received the same
respect as a hair-triggered gun. Only
two bottles survived the belated “work-
ing,” and they, Dad decided after an
elaborate system of mathematics,
wouldn’t be matured until New Year s
Day. On Christmas Eve the boys cast
out a few hints, but the old chap was
adamant. With the New Year came an
old bush mate, and Dad produced his
elixir. “Well, what do you think of it?”
he asked after the first bottle. “A darn
sight better than that watery stuff Brogan
sells!” declared his mate. And that’s
what the boys are annoyed about; be-
cause it was Brogan’s beer. Good din-
kum beer that they had ridden ten miles
to get to replace the filth that nearly
poisoned ’em on Christmas Day.
* * * *
“Quareef”: Tell “The O.D.” (B.
5 /1 / ’44) that the “mystery” disease
attacking horses in the Grafton district
is not caused by the paddymelon vine.
Paddymelon foliage and green fruit are
good stock-feed. Only when the vine
withers and the fruit turns yellow does
it become detrimental to non-cud-chew-
ing animals. Most damage is done when
hot, dry winds partially cover these
marble-sized “mystery-bags” with sand
and heat sets up internal fermentation.
If trod upon at this stage they explode
like the report of a pistol shot and spurt
a squelch of small, white seeds and yel-.
low-green slimy pulp up to 12 feet away.
Though a stock-sought delicacy, their
smell is vilely nauseating. Eventually
they turn horses blind, but it usually
takes years to do so, and then many are
blind only at night. Vitamin content of
the “squashie ’ must be high, for horses
remain fat and work well even when it
constitutes 50 per cent, of their diet. No,
squashies do not evolve waltzing horses
or nags imitating tree-possum capers.
But the Darling pea—that pretty-flowered,
poisonous curse found in far-west
N.S.W. and south-east S.A.—infuses such
attributes into stock that have eaten it.
They go mad. They waltz and spin, run
round in circles, try to climb trees and
cut other inane antics. Some die ; others
recover gradually. Possibly, mischance
has sown seeds of this curse in the Graf-
ton district.
* * * *
“Camsa”: Missed while out hunting in
the S.A. Mallee, an Australian terrier was
discovered 21 days later in a rabbit trap
in a burrow. Released, it was taken home
minus a paw, and recovered after several
weeks of nursing. Rain fell while it was
imprisoned in the trap, and it was sur-
mised that the dog kept alive by licking
raindrops from its coat.
* * * *
“Bo”: One of Ferguson’s beliefs was
that the mixing of dog breeds made
for high canine intelligence. He had been
given a pup, almost fully grown, by a
passing drover, and the fact that it had
paws almost the size of a panther’s, a
head like a butterbox, except that it was
black and ginger, stumpy legs and a
24in. tail that it thrashed like a whip
raised the animal in its new owner’s
esteem, especially when it put its odd
head on one side and regarded Ferguson
with mournful eyes. One sweltering
day a few weeks after he had acquired
the paragon, Ferguson was sitting having
tea when there came a whining from the
back verandah and a loud thumping. Fer-
guson investigated, and saw his dog hold-
ing a bloodstained, shapeless felt hat.
The tyke was jumping with excitement,
and Ferguson knew that the hour of the
pup’s vindication had come. He dashed
across to Toomey, his neighbor, who had
been loudest in his condemnation of the
mental qualities of nondescript mongs.
Together they returned to Ferguson’s ver-
andah preparatory to setting out to trace
the unfortunate owner of the cady, per-
haps lying helpless under the tree that
had crushed him. Then Ferguson went
to look for his hat, and, the search prov-
ing unavailing, a dreadful suspicion en-
tered his mind as he remembered that the
dog had been watching the work at the
killing pen that afternoon. When he had
recovered his tile there was the sound
of hard leather on a not-so-hard canine
rump, and a terrified yelp coincided with
the smashing of another illusion.
« • * •
“Horseless Horseman”: Back-country
milkers never forget their birthplace,
and no river-fence will stop them
making back there to calve. On
Tammit (mid-Murray, N.S.W.) during
shearing in 1931 Cherry, the house cow,
chose that inopportune time to have her
annual offspring. However, as the river
was a banker, a mile and a half wide,
and she had had four calves previously
at the homestead we took a chance. But
next morning she was missing. We learnt
later she had taken on the Murray in
record flood and had walked 14 miles to
Creswick’s old Happy Valley cattle
station (Vic.) to become a mother that
night.
* * # *
Dear Maister Editor, —
Ah hae a feelin’, ye ken, that yon
par. by a mon callin hissel “Walkaboot ’
(B. 19/1/’44) is a doonricht preevairi-
cation. He says a muckle big wuilie-
wullie (a wind, ye ken, no’ the name)
leefted a braw heap o’ camels ower a
fence wi’oot touchin’ hissel or his freend
on the same side. He canna be an unco
guid Presbyterian or he wadna deleever
hissel of sic a seenfix’ lee. Nocht o’ ghaist
or bogle the mon speakit; but a wullie-
wullie! By the bones o’ Rabbie Burns,
yon “Walkaboot” is net the guid moral
mon. Ah never heerd o’ a wind bein’
able to leeft'a beastie as big as a camel.
The Deil will scathe a mon like “Walk-
aboot.” An’ your paper shouldna preent
sic awfu’ wor-rds. If sic lees keep cornin’
in The Bulleteen Ah’ll refuse to borrow
it from the mon nex’ door.
Angus McUsquebaugh.
p.S.—Ah’m willin’ tae gamble what’s
left o’ ma New Year haggis that a bit
wind couldna leeft big beasties like camels
ower a fence!
A. McU.
ADRIFT.
I have seen drunks like rolling freighters toss
In seas of space, down endless streets of time;
Lost souls adrift, the debris and the dross.
And who shall say their thoughts are not
sublime
For those brief minutes when by angels steered,
Or altruistic devils, up and down
With visionary eyes and wine-splashed beard
They stumble like Cervantes through the
town?
Seeking, who knows, with hands of certain hope
Some red-lipped daughter of the Arcadian
vale.
Or slim bacchante, worthy of love’s scope.
With locks of deepest night and eyelids pale.
Only the lost may dream such dreams as these
Tossing with helpless sails on wine-dark seas.
R.A.A.F.
K. COLLOPY.


Who Is Your Trustee?
Does he possess the knowledge and experience which the acceptance of that office
demands?
Permanent Trustee Co.
OF N.S.W., LTD.
Incorporated 1888 to act as Executors and Trustees.
This Company offers unexcelled trust service, combining security and experience
, with efficient administration.
Write for explanatory Booklet, sent free, on request.
Directors.
F. N. YARWOOD (Chairman) SIR THOMAS BUCKLAND CECIL H. DOYLE
v' V T oN wmwrt. Vf F - W - HIXSON JOHN EWING
E. V. T. WHITTLE, Manager. N. L. SHAW, Assistant Manager.
23-25 O'CONNELL STREET, SYDNEY.
Australian, Mercantile, Land & Finance
Company, Limited
(INCORPORATED IN ENGLAND IN 1863)
WOOL, FAT STOCK, STORE AND STUD STOCK,
PRODUCE AND PROPERTY SALESMEN
General Manager for Australia: R. SINCLAIR SMITH.
ADVANCES MADE ON GRAZING PROPERTIES, ON STOCK, AND ON
CONSIGNMENTS OF WOOL, SKINS, HIDES, TALLOW, ETC.
LICENSED AUCTIONEERS, STOCK AND STATION AGENTS.
A tor. Am „ SYDNEY OFFICE: A. M. MURDOCH, Manager.
ALSO AT MELBOURNE, BRISBANE, NEWCASTLE, WAGGA, HENTY, HAY, MOREE,
n _ w * TOWNSVILLE, CHARLEVILLE, BUENOS AIRES, LONDON.
GENERAL AGENTS IN NEW SOUTH WALES FOR NORTHERN ASSURANCE CO., LTD.
FOR MINERAL MIXTURES AND LICKS
FOR CATTLE AND DAIRY STOCK
nii-CoJt®*
Sterilised
BONE FLOUR
TO REMEDY PHOSPHORUS DEFICIENCY
IN PASTURES AND FODDERS
Tri-cal-os Bone Flour is purely a bone product without admixture
of any other substance. It contains a guaranteed minimum oi
32.5 per cent, phosphoric acid and 40 per cent. lime.
All particulars from:—
DAVIS GELATINE, G.P.O. BOX 35835, SYDNEY.
G.P.O. Box 4058, Melbourne.
G.P.O. Box 712 F, Adelaide.
G.P.O. Box 758 K, Brisbane.
G.P.O. Box 688, Perth.
Tender Wool.
THE MAN ON THE LAND
"DON'T WORRY.I'M SENDING IT OT
GRAZCOS ."
“Jumbuck”; Tests by W.A, Univer-
sity for the Australian Wool Board show
the main cause is lack of sufficient pro-
tein in the pastures during summer and
autumn. Feeding trials indicated that
dry sheep on fairly poor pastures needed
ilb. cereal grain or more pe*r head a
day and pregnant and lactating ewes lib.
a head a day to meet energy needs. To
maintain a good growth of wool sheep
needed in addition at least 3oz. of pro-
tein a head a day.
The tests showed that if sufficient
protein could be given sheep during
summer and autumn it would not only
increase quantity of wool but would make
/-he fibres more uniform in size and ten-
sile strength from base to tip. A suffi-
ciency of protein would obviously in-
crease the general quality and value of
the fleece.
There are other causes of tenderness
and break. In normal years, when lack
of protein, water or feed cannot be held
responsible, tender wool sometimes shows
up in good sheep when burrs and seeds
infest the fleece. The action of the yolk
sometimes rots seeds, and in turn the wool
staples are rotted and thus become tender.
Water rot due to excessive rain will also
cause tenderness, as will the changing of
sheep from one extreme climate to an-
other.
Break, which is distinct from tender-
ness, is due to two main causes. A
change from poor to good pastures or
vice versa and the contracting of a sudden
illness nearly always will bring about a
break in the staple. Where sheep have
been running on drought-stricken country
there is little yolk in the wool and it is
lacking in vigor and is slow in growth,
but if the sheep are suddenly placed on
rich pastures a stronger and healthier
growth of wool soon takes place, and as
a result a mark is left showing where the
new growth Commenced. Vice versa, if
sheep are taken from rich pastures to an
arid area the growth decreases, and
although the break is not so apparent it
invariably shows up. If healthy sheep
are suddenly stricken with sickness the
blood becomes w'eak and impoverished,
and wool growth suffers accordingly and
causes a break.
The W.A. tests are of interest, but until
water- and fodder-conservation become
universal practices tenderness and break
will continue in many clips.
Post-war Wool Problems.
"B.ungaree”; A lot of people are
cheering themselves with the idea that
millions will be clamoring for wool, but
it has not been visualised how bankrupt
peoples are going to pay for it. Apart
from that, wool will have to compete
with synthetic fibres and face up to a
huge selling campaign run by makers of
non-woollen wearing apparel. To do that
successfully the post-war wool industry
will have to make a new start, beginning
with the grower.
When prices are good almost anyone
can make a success of growing wool, but
it is hard times that test an industry, and
hard times must be expected after this
war. To meet them Australia is in urgent
need of an educational service in sheep-
breeding and woolgrowing. We have
compulsory education in school subjects,
and if we had an extension to cover
sheep -and woolgrowing and to take in
students of any age whatsoever Australia
would be in a far better position to face
the future of her leading land industry.
There will have to be changes in out-
look of many breeders, and many old,
hitherto accepted beliefs will have to be
discarded. For instance, every breeder
should be interested in the work of Dr.
P. R. McMahon in New Zealand, His
experiments with Romney flocks have
produced facts which will probably be
hotly debated by many breeders because
they are not in accordance with general
practice.
In his efforts to increase the weight of
wool per sheep Dr. McMahon proved
what has been generally realised here,
that the ram is the chief factor in im-
provement, but on the other hand he has
shown that culling of ewes is not nearly
so important as we believe. His conclu-
sions are that by culling 50 per cent, of
ewes alone it would take nearly a century
“Y' can ' t take no chances with them light-fingered blokes around
these parts”
to increase the average weight of wool
by one pound per head, but by using
progeny tests of 20 per cent, of the rams
and using the best 3 per cent, the aver-
age wool weight could be increased to
that extent in four years without culling
the ewes at all.
This means not that ewes should
not be culled but that culling ewes should
be treated in a different light and that
more emphasis and more importance
should be placed on the selection of
rams, not from appearance, as is the
present practice, but by judging them on
the quality of the progeny they produce.
Unless a breeder realises that the slap-
dash methods of 50 years ago are finished
he will find it hard to survive. By using
knowledge available today he can learn
to carry fewer sheep and to get more
wool from them than from his present
flock. If woolgrowing is his chief source
of income he has got to know how to
feed not only his sheep but his wool
for best results. He will have to learn
sufficient about sheep parasites, internal
and external, and sheep diseases to be
able to decide for himself what is the
correct remedy and how and when to
apply it.
In the past more money has been
wasted on sheep drenches by using the
wrong type of drench than would estab-
lish educational facilities in these sub-
jects throughout the country. One thing
must be kept firmly in mind, however.
The job will take time, but only the best
men available should be chosen to do it.
Fire Prevention.
“Bootless”: Moving about the country,
I’ve noticed some weird and wonderful
fire-fighting equipment hopefully in readi-
ness for emergency. The main thing is
that the whole dam can’t be carried round
on the water-cart. A fine spray at about
801b* pressure will put out far more fire
than hundreds of gallons poured on the
ground at no pressure. It beats as well
as quenches, water consumption is about
one-quarter and the equipment can spend
a far greater percentage of its time on
the fire than in dashing hack to fill up.
Object of any equipment should be
good pressure, fine spray (adjustable Bor-
deaux nozzles are excellent) and an
economy of water sufficient to allow
fairly continuous use of hoses for about
an hour. There are all kinds of elaborate
plants on the market, but on most proper-
ties there are small engines and pumps
out of which handy plants can be made.
The period of emergency is usually
short. Any reputable pastoral machinery
firm will be pleased to give the necessary
information as to how existing equipment
can be utilised. Or a handy man can
work it out by trial and error. Don’t
forget that a simple by-pass valve will be
necessary with a piston pump.
The Honey Locust.
“Hux”; It’s a close relative of the
catob bean and, like it, bears heavy crops
of beans relished by stock. It’s an ideal
tree for areas averaging 12in. rainfall,
being easily propagated from seed or
suckers, hardy, frost- and drought-resis-
tant. It will hold eroding hillsides and
produce durable timber suitable for posts
and rails.
The honey locust is unusually attrac-
tive, and ranges from 30ft. to 120 ft. in
height, with 30in. to 40in. diameter. It
frequently shows 20ft. to 30ft. clear trunk
before the first branches are reached.
Around this trunk and along the branches
grow thorns up to a foot in length that
stop marauding stock. The head of the
tree is loose and broad, and lets the sun-
light reach the ground beneath it. This
makes it useful for growth with pastures.
In America honey locusts are grown
for fodder crop in low-rainfall areas.
Stock are so fond of the beans that they
wait under the trees for them to fall.
The pods range from 12in. to 20in. in
length, and mature trees produce over
5001 b. per crop. In certain soils some
trees average three to five crops per year.
Crude-protein content comes close to that
of wfi,eat bran. Sows and hogs fed on
the beans register an increase in milk and
weight. Harvesting is a simple matter,
and can usually be done with a rake.
Many trees in N. S. Wales have already
: borne heavily. Honey locusts make good
• shade trees. Cut back when young, they
form thick thorny hedges or good, short
i windbreaks.'
Soil Erosion.
“Pat Ater”: Recent work in early-
; settled districts of N.S.W., where erosion
of grazing and cultivation areas has been
most pronounced, has shown that recla-
mation is possible. In places pasture
lands were so badly eroded that only a
thin vestige of grass could be seen—even
after this spring’s bounteous rains. Gullies
helped the runway and further washing
, of surface soils with every heavy shower.
; Over most of the remaining surface the
soil cover was so thin on a subsoil of
heavy clay that grass roots could barely
! secure a hold. Barren patches showed
: over wide areas.
All the result of early mistakes in clear-
ing hilltop trees, mistakes common to our
agricultural lands but going on longer in
this district.
Sam Clayton, N.S.W, Director of Soil
Conservation, went to work on Dillin-
ger’s property between Menangle and
Douglas Park. Large absorption ditches
and pasture furrows were run on the
contour, close together. It is badly eroded
land —both sheet and rill erosion—and
there were large bare patches.
In July the area was treated and sown
with lucerne, Rhodes and Giant Panic
grasses. The object was to absorb rain
where it fell, instead of allowing it to
wash surface soil away, as had been done
for years. In spite of abnormal spring
rains the work was successful, and there
was every prospect of reVegetation.
Landowners of the district are watch-
ing the process with interest. Clayton
considers that not only is success assured
but that all similar land (Wianamatta
shale belt) of these areas can be brought
under control again.
Hints for the Farm.
’Myrrhee”; As supplies of separated
milk fall away give pigs more cereals
to maintain or increase their weight. As
little as half a gallon of separated milk
daily to every pig will balance all wheat,
barley or pollard that pigs can eat pro-
vided pasture, green food or legume hay
or chaff is available and the pigs have a
supplement of four parts ground lime-
stone and one part salt as a lick. With
this diet ample drinking water is required.
“Myr”: If a horse is low in condition
it is almost certain to become infested
with one or all of three species of lice,
one a bloodsucker, the other two biting
species. Sucking lice are generally found
at the base of mane and tail, the biting
varieties on other parts of the body.
Clip the animal and work kerosene emul-
sion, sheep-dip or a nicotine-sulphate
solution into the skin. To destroy lice
hatched from eggs not destroyed by the
first application repeat the treatment in
two weeks. The kerosene emulsion is
made by mixing lib. of soft soap in one
gallon of hot water and stirring in one
pint of kerosene as it cools. Nicotine-
sulphate solution is loz. of nicotine sul-
phate with one gallon of soapy water.
Use dips in the same strength as for
dipping sheep, but stop the horse from
licking the poison.
“H.C.’ : Citrus trees that fail to set a
crop may need manure. If they crop the
next season without attention they’ll
draw heavily on reserves of energy and
become a prey to parasites and root
diseases. When fertilisers are short try
resoiling with virgin surface earth. This
helps maintain vigor in both shallow and
deep soils. Raising the soil under the
trees till it comes in contact with the butt
induces collar rot. Keep the butt of the
tree clear. Leaving the roots exposed
at union with the trunk increases lives
of trees in land infected with armillaria
root rot.
“Gip” : To take out big staples em-
bedded in trees or posts use a six-inch
spike. Drive the point behind the wire
and give a good wrench. Fit a handle
to the fencing file and paint a bright
color to prevent losing the tool. Files are
precious these days and are easily lost.


2i>
l&SI
mm
‘dm
i
VERNON
LOVfiMf R,
n
38
Every penny saved is a direct contribution to the
war effort.
We do help the war effort if we place our money in a
Savings Bank account, or if we buy 5/- National Sav-
ings Stamps, thus avoiding unnecessary spending.
One page of a National Savings Stamp book will
contain enough stamps (£2) for use as a deposit or
instalment on a War Bond, while the full book will
purchase a £lO Bond outright. Single pages of
stamps (£2) will be accepted as a deposit to a Sav-
ings Bank account if required.
Get your free book and purchase your 5/- National
Savings Stamps from any Savings Bank or Money
Order Post Office and put your savings on service to
speed the victory.
c ommonuiCfliTH
9 snuincs BflnK "
0 F n USTR n U D
C.B.B
“Victory
through Air Power”
Walt. Disney’s "Victory Through Air Power." United Artists Release.
FAST upon the minds of those in authority who
are directing our war effort is impressed the
thought that victory will come to the Allied Nations
as a result of overwhelming air power.
Though not engaged in the business of air-bomb-
ing the enemy from his strongholds, Australian
National Airways records contribution to Aus-
tralia’s air power by carrying troops and food
and weapons of war to the front line areas.
In this and in other essential ways, A.N.A. is
serving the Nation. The highly efficient A.N.A.
organisation, the ever dependable A.N.A. Douglas
planes, the skilled and courageous A.N.A. pilots
and the competent A.N.A. maintenance personnel
are all playing their part to bring “Victory
Through Air Power.”
Australian
National Airways
PTY. LTD.
FIRST IN PEACE ... FIRST IN WAR ... FIRST IN FUTURE
UNCABLED ADDITIONS
Jap Colonising Technique.
(From a “Collier’s” article by Ramon Lavalle.)
As a colonising technique, the Japs
first tried murder, rape, torture and
terror. It worked none too well. Now
they are trying “friendship,” “home rule”
and “generous co-operation.” And the
new method is proving ominously suc-
cessful.
“Who but the white men are your
enemies? For decades they have been
exploiting you. Asiatics are members of
one racial family ; we must work together
as brothers, to improve our lot. Now,
thanks to Japan, you can proceed freely.”
Colonel Hashimoto broadcasts this mes-
sage two or three times a week from
Manila. At least as often radio listeners
of the Far East hear the persuasive voices
of Hori of the Board of Information and
Hiraide of the Japanese Navy speaking
from Tokyo.
Throughout the occupied areas, movie
houses run films showing the defeat of
the British and emphasising the military
prowess of the Japs, with titles and narra-
tive in Thai, Chinese, French, Tagalog,
English and a dozen other languages.
From Peking to the Solomons, swarms
of teachers, professors, language experts,
religious and research workers, techni-
cians, industrial tycoons and settlers
preach the Japanese gospel. All follow
the same line, stressing racial ties and
depicting the white man as a grasping
and unscrupulous devil; they industri-
ously till the soil fertilised by the Occo-
dental’s contemptuous treatment of the
native.
They are more successful than the aver-
age Westener cares to admit. Under-
estimation of the Japanese has already
cost us lives, wealth and prestige, and we
are on the point of underestimating them
again, this time as colonisers.
The conviction that the Japs are in-
ferior to us is difficult to overcome, but
whether we like it or not they are effi-
cient, fanatical, hard-working, intelligent,
tricky and resourceful. With antlike
tenacity, they are building an empire of
more than half a billion souls, possessing
unequalled natural resources.
Report on Germany.
(U.S. official view of Germany today, as
interpreted by the “United States News.”)
No successful popular uprising against
Nazi rule is expected, unless it is fomented
by the military. Germany has no oppo-
sition party. There is in Germany no
powerful underground movement.
With the Gestapo and Elite Guards, the
Nazis today are far better prepared than
the German rulers of 1918 to suppress
public revolt.
Despite reports of more frequent
mutiny among German soldiers and sub-
marine crews, the chances of any wide-
spread insurrection among German
troops is considered small. Such danger
as exists is said to be mostly among satel-
lite forces. So long as the German soldier
is commanded to fight, he is expected in
all but a small minority of cases to go
on fighting.
The chances of a military collapse at
this stage of the war are discounted. The
German Army is regarded as still having
most of the 300 combat divisions that
it claims. Heavy defeats have been suf-
fered, but thus far disaster has been
averted by skilful retreats. Today the
German Army is looked upon as being
a highly formidable military machine.
Little hope of winning against Germany
through the use of air-power without a
land invasion of Western Europe is held
out by leaders of air or land forces. In
fact, Germany’s new rocket defence
against bombers has increased the risks
of bombing attack.
Allied officials are not blind to the
chance that conditions inside Germany
not fully understood outside might set off
a violent convulsion that would end the
war quickly. Predictions are qualified
by admissions that anything might happen
in Germany and by warnings that Allied
soldiers should be ready for a sudden
surrender as well as for a desperate fight.
But there is no official disposition, to
gamble on such chances. Official judg-
ment is that Germany is not yet beaten,
and must be beaten before the war will
end. The months ahead are chosen as
the time to deliver the knockout. The
bulk of American and British air-power
is to be concentrated for the job. An
American Army almost twice as big as
that of World War I can be drawn upon.
Battles are expected that will dwarf any
that thus far have been fought by Ameri-
cans aAd British against the Axis. One
more year at most is currently expected
to see the end of the war in Europe.
Past Allied Weakness.
(From an article by a “Saturday Evening Post”
editor who observed North Africa on the spot .)
The plain truth is that the Anglo-
Americans opened no Second Front in
Europe in 1942-43 because they were too
weak to open a Second Front. American
military resources were being poured into
the Pacific, where they were urgently
needed merely to hold Japan ; while the
British armed forces were spread so thin
through Africa and Asia, as well as in
the British Isles, that an all-out Conti-
nental campaign was out of the question
until the Allies could train additional
troops and transport additional supplies.
In lieu of a Second Front, which
Anglo-American weakness thus ruled out,
the Allied strategists agreed in June, 1942,
to conduct restricted campaigns in the
Mediterranean, where there was a good
chance of winning victories with the
limited forces at their disposal. But even
in these calculated campaigns the Allies
assumed dangerous risks, because they
operated in the Mediterranean at the end
of incredibly long supply lines. The
landings in North Africa were figured so
closely that if any big factor had
happened to go wrong, defeat would have
been inevitable.
When the Allies made political deals
with French military leaders who con-
trolled North Africa a storm of Anglo-
American criticism broke out on the
assumption that we were “playing with
Fascists.” These critics completely mis-
understood the actual military situation ;
they took for granted that the Allies were
powerful enough to do whatever they
chose in North Africa, whereas we
actually were so weak that if the French
colonial administration had not swung to
our side our armies would have been
confronted with disaster.
American Aims.
(From a “Saturday Evening Post” article by
Demaree Bess, representing “the views of the
Post.")
We have heard so much about “democ-
racy versus dictatorship” that we are in-
clined to be shocked when our [U.S.]
Government makes cold-blooded deals
with dictatorships. We have heard so
much about the “American century’’ that
it is disillusioning to realise we can’t re-
shape the world to suit ourselves. We
have heard so much about the “century
of the common man” that it creates cyni-
cism to observe that the immediate future
of Europe and Asia depends upon the
decisions of some very uncommon men.
What do Americans actually want? To
answer that question, we must first get
clear in our own minds what we definitely
do not want, even though various Ameri-
can propagandists are trying to convince
us that we should. Judging by my con-
versations with soldiers overseas and with
civilians at home, there are two things
in particular which most of us decidedly
don’t want.
First, we don’t want an American em-
pire to combine or to compete with the
European empires which we are helping
to reconstitute. Historical trends seem
to make clear that all empires are gradu-
ally dissolving. The Italian, German and
Japanese attempts at empire-building
were doomed to fail, and even the estab-
lished empires which are fighting with us
are visibly undergoing an evolutionary
decline. Most Americans have no more
desire to buck this evolutionary process
by attempting to create a new empire of
their own than they desire to destroy
existing empires by revolutionary means.
Second, we don’t want to engage in an
ideological war against the Russian dicta-
torship. No matter what our propagandists


ip:
LIFEBLOOD OF THE NAVY
% v
%iiii
■pp
mm
w
\
TOO
VACUUM
QUALITY PRODUCTS
AJVD IKE MERCH NAVY
Safety at Sea-an all important factor.
No engineer would endanger the mach-
inery of his ship by the use of unsuitable
oils.
Vacuum's Gargoyle Marine Oils are
renowned amongst shipowners for their
down-right sterling quality and depen-
dability. The same high-quality Gargoyle
Marine Oils are available at every port
throughout the world.
Vacuum, in developing these lubricants
and in establishing this world-wide
distribution has accumulated a wealth
of knowledge and experience that has
proved of incalculable benefit to marine
engineers-and is freely available where-
ever ships berth. To-day, in war, this
Vacuum Service is proving invaluable, and
tremendous quantities of these high-qual-
ity lubricants are being supplied to the
vast navies and merchant marine of the
Allied Nations.
Vacuum Refineries are providing a war
service in other directions, too. Vast
plant that once supplied requirements
of peace has been turned over to the
manufacture of Butadiene, the chief con-
stituent of synthetic rubber; Toluol,
for T.N.T.; Formaldehyde, for shatter-proof
glass, etc.; and other commodities of war.
Serving the Nation on Lan , Sea, and in the Air
VACUUM OIL COMPANY EK:
sV
10 for 1/1
20 for 2/2
HADE SPECIALLY TO
PREVENT SORE THROATS
A
Carreras Ltd—ls 4 Years’ Refutation for Quality
A foolish spender is a traitor.
The right place for your money
Is in £lO National Savings Bonds
may urge upon us, most Americans are
not convinced that we went to war to
impose our ideas upon reluctant peoples
either in Europe or in Asia.
I have heard some Americans say “Our
next war will be against Russia, and it
will come pretty soon after this one.” I
don’t believe this for one moment.
Russia’s present leaders know what
they want, and what they want most of
all is a long period of peace. The Rus-
sians didn’t get into this war to “make
the world safe for the dictatorship of the
proletariat,” any more than Americans
got into it to “make the world safe for
democracy.” In fact, until Germany
attacked Russia the Soviet dictatorship
denounced the European war as an im-
perialistic struggle which did not concern
them, and Russia’s converts in the
United States, France and England
echoed these sentiments. Russia is moti-
vated by two practical purposes, to win
the war and to ensure its own security in
the post-war world.
And these two purposes are precisely
the two purposes for which most Ameri-
cans are fighting—peace and security,
We have only to look around us to see
that we have not created an ideal world
at home and that we are even less likely
to create one abroad. We can also see
that our present Allies are no more per-
feet than we are, and sometimes they
seem even less so. But their imperfec-
tions, unlike those of Germany and
Japan, are not such as to impede our own
desire to make world peace comparatively
secure. .
The so-called United Nations include
dictatorships and semi-dictatorships and
empires, as well as democracies, and their
ideas differ as widely as their forms of
government. But these differences, as
the Moscow conference proved, can be
composed by compromises. However,
those compromises will work only if we
understand what they really mean, and
not what some propagandists try to make
us believe they mean,
For example, in their anxiety to come
to terms with Russia some Americans
have tried to pretend that Russia is “just
another form of American democracy.
Such misrepresentations are not only
ludicrous but dangerous. We can come
to terms with Russia only by understand-
ing what she is. The truth is that Russia
is ruled by a dictatorship which, in some
resrwts is the most absolute ever
respects, is me most aosoiute ever
created. But this Russian dictatorship
demonstrated at the Moscow conference
that it is willing to “do business” with
fhp Prudish sneak inn Powers on a live-
tne Unglisn-speaKing 1 owers on a live-
and-let-live basis. j
Whatever some of our propagandists
may tell US, we are not fighting this war
to correct the imperfections of our Allies.
Our primary purpose is to figure out
some means of co-operating with them
in an imperfect world. Fortunately, there
is one war aim and peace aim which all
our Allies share with US absolutely.
That aim is to establish a workable sys-
fnr nrpvpntina la rap epafp ware hv
tem tor preventing large-scale wars by
co-operation among those nations which,
like ourselves, are certain to profit by
nrnlonned neace
P P
Dragnet Digest.
(Condensed from various acknowledged
sources .)
Civilian Russia is working as it never worked
in all Russian history. In Russia there are no
strikes, no lockouts and no vacations. There
is no leisure class —no one, not even married
women, except when they have little children,
is permitted to live a leisurely life. The seven-
to eight-hour labor in pre-war years is now
only a memory. An eleven-hour day, which is
three hours’ obligatory overtime, is the rule of
the land. Voluntary additional overtime, par-
ticularly on Sundays, for the purpose of over-
filling the plan, or making a special gift to the
Red Army, is widespread.— Maurice Hindus;
Moscow correspondent N.Y. “Herald Tribune.”
* * *
The Portuguese empire, which is ruled by
an extremely intelligent dictator, ceded the use
of bases in the Azores to Great Britain, and
not to the United States. This disturbed
some Americans, notably Mayor Fiorello La
Guardia, of New York City, who declared in a
radio address, “It has been worrying me, and
I think many Americans have been worrying
about it too. Wasn’t it too bad that the agree-
ment was not • made with the United States?
I wonder if our State Department was napping.
I guess poor old Cordell Hull can’t be every-
where and do everything.” This statement
shows that Mayor La Guardia has had too
many things on his own mind recently either
to reread European history or to follow current
events in detail. He ignored two facts: first,
that the British and Portuguese empires have
been closely bound since 1373 by the oldest
alliance in Europe; and second, that President
Roosevelt, as recently as May, 1941, actively
antagonised the Portuguese dictator. The
spring of 1941 was the most critical period for
Portugal since the beginning of the European
war. German pressure was so intense just then
that observers in Lisbon expected an invasion
momentarily. And President Roosevelt chose
that moment to refer to the Azores in a public
speech. , He declared that these islands, which
have been owned by Portugal for centuries,
were of such importance to the United States
that we could not permit them to fall into
hostile hands. I was in Lisbon at the time, and
saw what agitation this statement caused there.
The Azores were equally important to Britain,
of course, but the British Government made no
public statement' at that time. On the contrary,
British officials privately assured the Portuguese
dictator that they understood his position very
well, and would do nothing to provoke Ger-
many to precipitate action. — Demaree Bess;
“Saturday Evening Post.”
* * * *
A pamphlet of the International Labor Office,
published in Washington, speaks of 40,000,000
under 15 years of age still alive in occupied
Europe. Shortages of food, clothing, housing,
fuel and the means of sanitation have sent up
the deathrate, and many of these boys and
girls will die Many who survive will never
grow to their full stature or enjoy good health
or be physically fit parent's for another genera-
tion. Hitler’s butchers will be destroyed, but
they will leave their foul brand on every race
in Europe which has felt their power. — N.Y.
“Times.”
* * * *
Prospective fortunes to be made from raising
sunken vessels are already prompting salvaging
companies to make preparations. Lying all
around the coast of Great Britain are ships
which can yield enormous sums from scrap metal
and cargoes, and some are easily accessible.
According to reports a Swedish concern has
outfitted a large icebreaker to salvage sub-
marines. There’s » far bigger job ahead than
salvaging the German fleet of the last war at
Scapa Flow. — London correspondent; “Wall-
street Journal.”
* * *
“If American moral and diplomatic pressure
helps India—the only indispensable strategic
keystone of the arch of the British colonial
empire—obtain independence, we risk condemn-
ing Great Britain to a severe economic depres-
sion by not only splitting the empire structure
in twain but shattering it to pieces.”— Rep.
Claire Luce, speaking at Rochester, U.S.A.
* * * »
There has been much argument and recrimi-
nation among British and Indian authorities as
to the causes of the famine in Bengal. But,
beginning at bedrock —in all India there is a
population problem. In the ten years from
1931 to 1941 the population increased 50,000,000.
In other words, in one decade, the increment
was itself greater than the entire population of
any country in Europe with the exception of
Germany and Russia. This 50,000,000 increase
fell heavily on Bengal, which during the ten-
year period accounted for one-fifth of all
India’s increase. Thus Bengal’s population
today stands at more than 60,000,000 with a
density of 779 persons per square mile, as
against 627 per square mile in 1931. During
those same years no new land was brought into
cultivation nor has the productive capacity of
land available been appreciably increased.
This great swarming area, even without the
impact of a series of natural catastrophes,
was overripe for the stark tragedy which has
stalked Bengal. — William Fisher; N.Y. “Life.”


Personal and Missing Friends.
WILL EDWARD AUGUSTUS MITCHELL, formerly
of Thurrowa, or anyone knowing his whereabouts,
please communicate with PERMANENT TRUSTEE
COMPANY OF N.S'.W., Ltd., 25 O’Connell Street,
Sydney, in connection with the Estate of Joseph
Mitchell, deceased ?
JOAN FLINT, niece of Minnie Amelia Benjamin
(also known as Barrington), is requested to com-
municate with the undersigned with regard to an
interest in the Estate of her late aunt. FISHER &
MAOANSH, Solicitors, 70-72 King Street, Sydney.
Public Notices.
I, GIUSEPPE PROFILIO, of Italian nationality,
born at Oanneto, Lipari Islands, and resident 19 years
in Australia, now residing at 153 Victoria Road,
Dmmmoyne, N.S.W., intend to apply for naturali-
sation under the Nationality Act 1920-1936.
I, ARTHUR RETTER, of former Austrian nationality,
born at Vienna, Austria, and resident over five years
in the British Empire, the last four years and ten
months in Australia, now residing, at Thp Grnsvenor,
Hughes Street, Potts Point, N.S.W., intend to apply
for naturalisation under the Nationality Act 1920-
1936.
I, HELENE THIERFELD, of former Austrian nation-
ality, bom at Vienna, Austria, and resident over
five years in the British Empire, the last four years
and five months in Australia, now residing at Luxora,
Furber Road, Centennial Park, N.S.W., intend to
apply for naturalisation under the Nationality Act
1920-1936.
I, JOHN HANS BROOKES, of Austrian nationality,
bom at Bolechow and resident five years in Aus-
tralia, now residing at 22 Wattle Street, Killara,
intend to apply for naturalisation under the Nation-
ality Act 1920-1936.
MANY NEVER
SUSPECT CAUSE
OF BACKACHES
(This 019 Treatment Often firings
Happy Relief
It is surprising how quickly many sufferers
relieve nagging backache once they discover
that the real cause of their trouble may be
clogged kidneys.
Your kidneys contain 15 miles of tiny tubes
or filters which strain the waste and acids
from the blood. A healthy person should pass
three pints a day and so get rid of three pounds
of waste matter.
If your kidneys don’t work well, this waste
stays in the body and may become poisonous,
causing nagging backaches, leg pains, loss of
pep and energy, getting up nights, lumbago,
swollen feet and ankles, puffiness under the
eyes, rheumatic pains and dizziness. Frequent
or scanty passages with smarting and burning
are further evidence that something is wrong
witih the kidneys or bladder.
Don’t wait! Ask your chemist or store for
DOAN’S BACKACHE KIDNEY PILLS . . .
used successfully the world over by millions of
people suffering with backache and other kidney
disorders. They give quick relief and will help
flush out the 15 miles of kidney tubes. So be
sure you get DOAN’S BACKACHE KIDNEY
PILLS.
KEEP BUYING
WAR SAVINGS CERTIFICATES
y Jte?
SAUCE
THE ECONOMY SAUCE
MATURED LIKE OLD WINE
GET THE BEST FROM YOUR CLIP. READ "WOOL-CLASSING AND
SHED MANAGEMENT.” 3s. 6d. f POST FREE, “BULLETIN” OFFICE.
m?.
• • ; I
IB’: 'M
m
m
j -
-«7> ink S
■
S si
iff
4*o' 4
mm
am
m
; ; :; ■ •:■
PmM
wmi
m
m*
W&Mxm
* i
IptvJ l
!
xmmi'iu -
■JOiNWfiIWwMWC^ivAV
m
S:SS&&:SS**
■
: m
m
Wm*
iiMi
lip
3H * M
m
mm
i>* ■' ' . ■ s*v. <*■ SSi ■>■■ .S' * #
Ss :
ms>.
tVhen
again tve tealh in peace!
Up in the jungles of the South Pacific our men are fighting so that one
day we may walk in peace, and so that fear will be banished forever from
this land we love.
It is for us to protect our heritage, too. To lay our plans now so that
when our fighting men come back to Australia, each shall have the
opportunity to share the treasures of the fruitful earth, and to win a stake
in a new and bounteous land.
In this development Caterpillar Tractors and Waugh & Josephson Earth-
Moving Equipment will play their part as they have played it in war.
They will build roads and airports at the lowest possible fuel and
maintenance cost. They will cultivate and conserve the land and bring
to desert wastes precious, life-saving water. Meantime, the whole of our
resources are devoted to' meeting the needs of war.
CAT 1 It PHI AR
REG. U.S. PAT. OFF
IRACK-TYPE TRACTORS and WAUGH & JOSEPHSON EARTH - MOVING EQUIPMENT
Distributors for New South Wales and Queensland:
WAUGH & JOSEPHSON PTY. LIMITED
Unwin's Bridge Rd., St. Peters, Sydney. 'Phone—LA332l. Marquis St., Gunnedah. 'Phone—Gunnedah 326.
Service Engineers: Mr. J. A. Rathbone, 57 Cambridge St., South Grafton. Mr R. Tweedle, Port Macquarie.
‘Phone—Port Macquarie 81. Mr. D. McDougall, 96 Kincaid St., Wagga. Phone—2BB6. 102 Melbourne St.,
South Brisbane. 'Phone—Jl4s6. Rankin St., Innisfail. ‘Phone—lnnisfail 475.
BUY
WAR
SAVINGS
CERTIFICATES
GU-33-43
SERVICE DEPARTMENT.
Information Sought.
What are the qualifications of a merchant
vessel’s wireless operator and where should
application be made ?
A first- or second-class certificate of pro-
ficiency in radiotelegraphy, issued by the
P.M.G.’s Department after examination; apply
to Marine Department of Amalgamated Wire-
less, '47 York-street, Sydney.
* * » *
(1) In what circumstances may an assistant
schoolmaster at a Q’land grammar school re-
ceive a commission in a school cadet corps ?
(2) What responsibilities Would he have to
assume? (3) What pay and uniform allowance
would he receive ? (4) Would a man who had
held a commission in the British Regulars
during the last war and served as an Australian
n.c.o. in this war be eligible for such a com-
mission ?
(1) There must be a vacancy for an officer in
the cadet detachment at the school. Application
for a commission is to be made on Army Form
A22, which must have the signature of the
officer commanding the detachment or of the
school’s headmaster. (2) Those of an officer.
(3) Initial uniform allowance of £6 and £5
yearly for a lieutenant and £7 yearly for a
captain. (4) Yes, if acceptable to the head-
master. However, detailed information should
be obtained from the Staff Officer, Senior
Cadets, H.Q., Queensland L. of C. Area.
* * * *
Figures of State and service voting for Con-
scription Referendum of December, 1917?
State. For. Against.
New South Wales .. 341,256 487,774
Victoria 329,772 332,490
Queensland 132,771 168,875
South Australia .. 86,663 106,364
Western Australia .. 84,116 46,552
Tasmania 38,881 38,502
Federal Territory .. 1,700 1,220
(State figures include service and mer-
chant marine votes.)
Service and merchant marine voting—103,789
for, 93,910 against.
v * -s *
How to waterproof a cord fishing line?
Soak in a mixture of equal parts of boiled
linseed oil and copal varnish, then stretch across
room and wipe with a sponge; when dry give
a second coat. If varnish is not available, melt
together one part resin and four parts paraffin
wax. When warm coil line in pot and draw out
through wet rag.
Brief Answers.
W.Y.W.: Inquire from the Victorian Police
Department H.W.P.: O’Brien’s Foundation
of Australia (14s. 6d.) and Scott’s History of
Australia (6s.) are stocked by Angus and
Robertson, Sydney M.E.G.; Tahu Hole is
the author’s real name; he is a Maorilander,
worked in Sydney as a journalist for some time,
and has been a news commentator for the B.B.C.
B.A.: There is no official record, but it seems
unlikely G.R.: It is illegal to keep any type
of rabbit in Queensland B.B.: The smallest
rangefinder in use is about 2ft. long; it could
hardly be called a pocket instrument E.L.:
There are no such words in the regulation. Con-
sent is not required for any alteration or addi-
tion to a building the cost of which does not
exceed £25 Inquirer: The soldier concerned
should inquire from any army pay office or
finance office N.E.L.: A degree in veterinary
science can be obtained only after university
study. The Q’land Animal Health Station is
not' an educational establishment.
Answers to Correspondents
Name and address must appear on the MS. No
liability is undertaken re contributions voluntarily
submitted; and no MS. urill be returned unless
stamps accompany. MS. should be addressed to
the Editor.
R.H.D.: Meat rationing does not appear to
be good for poets A.C.: Some vigor; but
the elderly prospector who wanted to prospect
in heaven was sent to blazes years ago
K.J.W.: Crammed with cliches.... H.W.: Even
for a poem about Hitler 19 exclamation marks
is a record N.S.; “Memory’s magic fingers”
don’t weave anything new M.D.: Onion
awful WJ.C.: The usual bushfire poem
F. 8.: Chuck it, brother T.N.C.: Sentimental
and derivative J.W.E.: .Too much analysis
and not' enough pictorial sense... .A.G.J.;
“Yet ah, for a fragrant petunia” is the sort
of exclamation that tempts the ribald.
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC)
CORRESPONDENTS.
G.F.S.: The ringbarked tree and Sarah are
practically indistinguishable H.L.: You owe
your style to “Comic Cuts” and the joke to a
20-year-old Bulletin Percy N.: The office
morgue closed on the infant with the 40-year-
old dial standing up in what looks like a crop
of maize in a corner of the lounge-room.


tt
WHO WILL LOOK AFTER
FAMILY ?-n
It is unwise to appoint an individual as
Executor of your Will. He may become
overloaded with his own work, may die,
become ill or careless, leave the country or
even abuse his trust. %
The Trustees Executors and Agency Com-
pany Limited, constituted under Act of
Parliament, and with over 65 years’ experi-
ence in the administration of thousands of
estates, offers you ample security, an impar-
THE TRUSTEES EXECUTORS
AND AGENCY COMPANY LTD.
Incorporated in Victoria'in 1878.
1 BLIGH ST., SYDNEY, and at 401 COLLINS ST.,
MELBOURNE.
Capital (paid and uncalled) and Reserves
£960.645. .
BOARD OF DIRECTORS:
Sir Alexander Stewart (Chairman); D. Stuart Murray;
Sir Claude Reading, K.C.M.G.; Sir Lennon Raws, C.8.E.:
G. S. Colman, C.8.E.; Sir Alan Newton.
NEW SOUTH WALES DIRECTORS:
Sir Claude Reading, K.C.M.G. (Chairman); W. D. Stewart)
N.S.W. Manager: J. W. Russell French.
Gen. Manager: W. Sydney Jones. Manager: K. M. Hughea,
tial viewpoint and complete
continuity of service. Charges m
are fixed and moderate. Con- (u|
suit your solicitor or write for i* \
Free Booklet. M
R. T. Wilder.
Safe and Profitable —
AN “A.C.A.” POLICY.
® Old age or untimely death terminates a man s earning-power, but matures
the life policy.
® Think of your dependants, and the time when YOU will be dependent.
With an A.C.A. whole-life or endowment contract you can t go wrong. Your
premiums earn bonuses, which accumulate as the policy matures.
• Take out an A.C.A. policy and you have a front-rank investment. The
Office directs attention to “The Bulletin’s” criticism (17/3/43). Policy-
holders get 90 p.c. of the profits.
Australasian Catholic Assurance
COMPANY, 3LTD.
Head Office; A.C.A. Building, 66 King Street, Sydney.
E. J. Mooney, Managing Director. • P. J. Ryan, Secretary.
Branch Offices;
Victoria : A.C.A. Building, 118-126 Queen Street, Melbourne.
Queensland; A.C.A. Building, 270 Queen Street, Brisbane.
South Australia: Bank of N. S. Wales Chambers, 12 King William Street, Adelaide,
Western Australia: Warwick House, St. George's Terrace, Perth.
District Offices and Agencies Throughout the States.
THE WILD CAT
COLUMN
Amalgamated Wireless
To Re- Nominal
June, Profit. Dividends. serves. Reserves.
£ £ £ £
1933.. 82,172 8 p.c. = 59,543 22,629 78,989
1984.. 137,934 10 „ „ 74,428 63,506 142,495
Staff fund. £5OOO 137,495
1935.. 119,824 10 p.e. 74,428 t on one lav rqi
Staff fund, £15,000 .. j 30,896 167,891
1936.. 109,701 11 p.c. = 81,870 27,831 195,721
1937.. 125,794 12 „ „ 89,313 36,481 232,202
1938.. 130,198 12 „ „ 89,525 40,673 272,875
1989.. 132,578 10 „ „ 89,035 43,543 316,418
From suspense account, £22,800 .. 339,218
1940.. 110,479 10 p.c. = 90,511 19,968 359,186
1941.. 103,089 10 „ „ 90,511 12,578 371,764
1942.. 126,192 8 „ „ 72,408 52,784 424,548
1943.. 133,542 8 „ „ 77,232 66,310 480,858
Australia has reason to be proud of this
co. Its communication, manufacturing,
technical and scientific services have been,
and still are, important factors in opera-
tional and other activities of the services
on land, sea and in the air. Many of the
co.’s war-time achievements are military
secrets, and cannot, therefore, be dis-
cussed here. But what made possible
these achievements —they include design
and large-scale pianufacture of all kinds
of modern radio equipment—was long
years of persistent pioneering and re-
search work, begun when the present co.
took over the Australian rights of the
English Marconi Co. and the Telefunken
Co. in 1913. The co. owes much of its
success to the enterprise and long-sighted
policy of its chairman and managing
director, Ernest Fisk, who was knighted
about seven years ago for the work he
had done, especially in the experimental
field.
Excepting its broadcasting services, the
co.’s activities are now almost entirely
devoted to war requirements and essen-
tial services, which include a flood of
overseas official and press dispatches.
These are handled by the beam service,
first opened in 1927. It has quickened
and cheapened international communica-
tion to such an extent that, although ex-
panded to over four times pre-war capa-
city, difficulty is still experienced in
handling the volume of business offer-
ing. The old undersea cable has thus
been rendered obsolete, except for “most
secret” official communications.
Although war interrupted the co.’s
earnings from civilian sources, the volume
of official business, which carries nar-
rower profit margins, has more than filled
the gap. Last term gross earnings
(£1,138,700) stepped up £87,921. Includ-
ing something for the taxgatherer and
£91,051 (down £1214) for depreciation,
exes. (£1,005,158) took £79,571 of the
gain. That left net earnings (up £8350)
at 13.8 p.c. on average capital as against
13.8, 11.3, 12.2 and 14.6 p.c. back to
1939. The div. was kept at 8 p.c. The
£56,310 that remained lifted nominal
reserves to £4Bo,BsB—nominal because
they are subject to intangibles (£132,880).
In addition, there is a specific reserve
for depreciation, etc. (£859,224), some of
which might be genuine profit.
During the year the final 2s. (£80,412)
was called on 804,118 shares, making all
shares fully paid to 20s. each:
1936. 1940. 1942. 1943.
Paid capital.. £744,283 £905,106 £905,106 £986,518
Sundry creditors 240,287 412,277 1,326,412 936,305
Freeholds* . . 377,243 609,389 628,807 646,106
Plant, etc.* 1 Q/tQ f 670,159 639,776 692,743
Stocks j | 3 7 9 36 9 i ; 0i4,823 606,868
Beam services 171,495 179,718 196,439' 204,229
Book debts ~ 259,068 817,164 625,660 793,246
Cash, etc. .. 137,362 150,036 244,771 272,320
Patents . . 93,000 85,811 85,811 85,811
*At cost; subject to specific reserves (now
£859,224).
The reduction of £407,955 in stocks was
accompanied by a contraction of £390,107
in the amount coming to sundry credi-
tors, an increase of £167,586 in debtors’
balances and of £27,549 in cash, etc. The
year’s improvement in the more or less
liquid surplus (£736,129) was £177,287, of
which new capital accounted for nearly
one half. It all suggests increased ac-
tivity and preparation for further expan-
sion.
War-time radio developments are ex-
pected to create new post-war demands
for the co.’s equipment. Introduction of
radio television will bring with it a host
of new technical, manufacturing and ad-
ministrative problems, to all of which
the management is already devoting atten-
tion. And, in the interesting field of
research, the generation and transmission
of electrical energy for commercial pur-
poses continue to engage the attention of
the co.’s specialists, though such things
are still in the embryonic stage. New
fields take time, energy and money to
develop, and are not always profitable in
the early stages.
Henry Jones Co-operative, Ltd.
To Re-
Oct., Profit. Dividends. Reserves, serves.
£ £ £ £
1933.. 111,414 6jp.c. = 89,385 22,029 464,271
1934.. 134,483 7J „ „ 107,263 27,220 491,491
1935.. 149,622 8} „ „ 125,140 24,482 615,973
1936.. 195,449 10 „ „ 143,017 52,432 568,405
1937.. 200,114 10 „ ~143,017 57,097 625,502
1938.. 192,597 10 „ „ 143,017 49,580 675,082
1939.. 214,197 11J „ ~160,894 53,803 728,385
1940.. 192,210 10 „ ~143,017 49,193 777,578
1941. . 194,343 10 „ „ 143,017 51,326 828,904
1942.. 198,818 10 „ ~ 143,017 55,801 884,705
1943.. 193,179 10 ~ „ 143,017 50,162 934,867
This holding co. was formed by Henry
Jones and A. W. Palfreyman 34 years
ago to eliminate waste and overlapping
in buying, selling and distributing. For
the first 20 years divs. averaged a shade
under 11 p.c., sweetened with £455,492
of bonus scrip in 1927. Over the last 14
years, which included slump, overproduc-
tion of canned fruits, price-cutting by
Government-assisted factories and the
present war-time controlled economy,
shareholders averaged a wink over 9 p.c.,
lowest annual distribution being 6i p.c.
There is £1,430,173 of capital to feed,
and at the end of October last there was
£212,088 coming to the subsidiaries and
£4OO to outsiders. The lot, together with
reserves, was invested in a group of jam-
and fruit-canning and -preserving in-
terests, scattered throughout the Com-
monwealth and Maoriland and extending
to Britain and S. Africa as well.
War brought big shifts in demand and
created many difficulties connected with
labor, shipping, finance, production and
distribution. Still, service demands —our
own and allied —for canned fruits, jams,
tomatoes, asparagus, fruit juices, meat
and vegetables, sausages and soups more
than offset the shrinkage in civilian sales,
and the total volume of turnover ex-
panded. But the taxgatherer and
increased wage and other costs, etc.,
gobbled the gain from the bigger busi-
ness, leaving the parent’s net earnings
fairly steady since the outbreak of war.
These net earnings represent dividends
received from operating concerns, less the
holding co.’s own exes.—£67ls, mainly
taxation, last term.
The next table, which shows combined
net earnings of the entire organisation,
after deducting outside interests, gives
shareholders a truer picture of the posi-
tion :
Net income— 1939, 1942. 1943.
Australian .. . . £192,667 £260,764 £197,803
Other sources . . 75,622 72,032 80,349
Total .. .. £268,289 £272,796 £278,152
The £278,152 (up £5356) of profit thus
claimed last term was 19.4 p.c, on
parent’s capital as against 19 p.c. and
17.4 p.c. for the two preceding terms.
That was after allowing an extra £5021
for depreciation (£54,151) and something
for taxation. It all makes the parent’s
10 p.c. div, look as comfortable as any-
thing of the kind can look these days.
Still, canneries will emerge from the war
period with output capacity greater than
when they entered it.
There is nothing to worry about in the
finances: 6
1939. 1942. 1943.
Paid capital . . £1,430,173 £1,430,173 £1,430,173
Outside interests* 79,477 101,443 101,190
Creditors, etc. .. 419,858 581,145 578,859
Tax reserve, etc... 159,478 408,703 416,648
Suspense account 7,691 13,209
Freeholds, etc, .. 697,928 729,460 756,330
Plant, etc. .. 279,590 312,405 322,447
Stocks .. . . 872,099 1,273,808 1,291,236
Debtors . . . . 785,068 973,690 920,716
Shares . . . . 101,245 103,725 100,917
Cash, etc.. ■ • • 745,328 894,546 961,164
Goodwill . . . . 62,542 50,935 50,935
Suspense account 63,784
* Including proportion reserves.
Cash, etc., alone —the etcetera is £452,405
(up £68,728) of Governmentisecurities —
is £382,305 in excess of the amount cona-
ing to trade creditors. Stocks (up
£17,428) can be regarded partly as insur-
ance against rising costs.
As for the current term, resumption
of trade in canned fruits, etc., with
Britain won’t do turnover any harm ; but
a heavier fruit crop will call for addi-
tional labor for picking and processing
if waste is to be avoided.
H. B. Dickie (Melb.)
Net r ——-Dividends N To Re- De-
June, Profit. Pref. Ord. Total, serves, flcit.
£ £ £ £
Goodwill, £27,000 .. ~ .. 27,000
1935*. 8,450 6 p.e. 2,783 667 26,333
1936.. 8,127 7 „ 7,510 617 25,716
1937.. 10,504 5i „ 7J „ 8,325 2,179 23,537
1938.. 13,960 5£ „ 8 „ 8,825 5.135 18,402
1939.. 13,422 5i „ 8 „ 8,825 4,597 13,805
1940.. 15,600 6 ~ 9 „ 10,944 4,656 9,149
Share premiums, £6,250 .. .. 2,899
1941.. 16,920 6 p.c. 10 p.c. 16,591 329 2.570
Reserves.
1942.. 19,066 6 „ 8 „ 14,400 4,66§ 2,096
1943.. 17,531 6 „ 8 ~ 14,400 3,131 5.227
* Six months.
Towels and terry cloth are this co.’s
specialty, with surgical gauze a war-time
addition. The public has been interested
in only the last half of the co.’s 17-year
existence. During that period progressive
advance in net earnings was recorded till
the recession occasioned through the com-
bined operations of Price and Tax Com-
missioners last year. Expansion has been
more marked than profit figures alone
indicate; and though much of it is
directly attributable to war conditions the
co. appears to have cut itself a permanent
niche in the trade.
Output of Australian towel manufac-
turers is going primarily to the services,
which have taken over 5,000,000 towels
to date. The acute shortage of supplies
for civilian requirements is due to short-
age of labor. While output of the spin-
ning mill for both the co.’s own and out-
side purposes lifted 28 p.c. last term, as
the result of additional plant coming into
operation, it was still below capacity. In
the weaving section production actually
fell. Still, altered specifications and other
rationalisation measures raise the co.’s
hopes of meeting more of future civilian
demand, now harnessed by coupon
rationing.
The contraction of £1535 in latest earn-
ings left them at 10.1 p.c. on ord, capital,
after feeding 40,000 prefs., compared with
11.1 p.c. for the 12 months before. The
decline largely reflects a tax provision of
£15,000, which was £4668 more than in
the year before, after adjusting that
period’s figures for £2418 overprovided.
Depreciation (£14,351, up £3631) is struck
on a 10 p.c. flat rate, Ord.-holders again
got 8 p.c., and should be content until
the board accumulates a little muscle in
the form of reserves, now only £5227 in
excess of goodwill.
Depreciation balances were used to add
£12,947 to stocks:
1935, 1938 1942 1943.
Paid capital . . £92,755 £115,000 £190,090 £190,000
Liabilities x .. 29,220 45,306 70,985 66.346
Tax reserve .. 1,530 2,470 12,750 15,606
Freehold .. 29,856 37,350 76,283 76,283
Plant, etc. . . 29,846 35,280 103,183 88,962
Stock . . . . 27,543 58,804 66,238 79,185
Debtors, etc. ) 19 vin 1 16,547 19,047 23,528
Cash, etc. | | 807 15,862 14,815
Towards the close of accounts raw and
spun cotton prices were brought within
the general price-stabilisation framework.
Spinners were required to furnish particu-
lars of all raw-cotton stocks, and varia-
tions of actual cost from the basic figure
on which yarn prices have been pegged
are being adjusted as subsequent material
purchases are drawn from the depart-
ment of Import Procurement. The effect
is that spinners whose raw material was
bought at a higher figure than the stabi-
lised price must wait till replenishing
stocks for reimbursement, and in the
process accept whatever cotton types
D.I.P. cares to thrust upon them. Quality
of some of the Lend-Lease stuff handled
is adding nothing favorable to that de-
partment’s reputation.


PATENTS.—Have you an idea worth patenting?
Griffith, Hassel and Griffith, Patent Attorneys,
Asbestos House, Or. York and Barrack Streets, Sydney,
obtain Commonwealth and foreign patents.— Advt.
» * * *
DAVIES & COLLISON, Patent Attorneys, Collins
House, 360 Collins Street, Melbourne, 0.1. Austra-
lian and overseas Patents an** Trade Marks. — Advt,
The Mutual Life and Citizens’
Assurance Company, Limited
Martin Place and Castlereagh Street,
SYDNEY.
Founded 1886.
There is no better way of p\ widing
cash for your family, or for yourself
when you retire, than by taking out
a policy with The M.L.C,
ASSETS EXCEED £37,000,000
ANNUAL INCOME EXCEEDS
£5,500,000
M. O. Alder, A.1.A.,
General Manager.
New Invention Controls
HUPTUME
No Springs—No Cushions
This latest invention by Dr. L. Barrere brings
to rupture sufferers an entirely new method of
control. It is the result of 40 years’ practice
and improvements, and has been proved com-
pletely successful by all who have tried it.
The NEO-BARRERE acts tike the hand when
placed flat upon the orifice. You will at once,
without effort and in all movements, hold the
intestine in its cavity.
Write to-day for FREE LITERATURE.
BARRERE DISTRIBUTION CO.
(Dept. 2N).2i3 ELIZABETH ST., SYDNEY
BRANDALFR’S
p»
69.V
PENS
Every point
guaranteed —
do not experiment with imitations,
a Bxunuk.au * 00, xm. siemihgiham. enq
EYE LOTION
For Inflamed Eyes and Eyelids ... Sold Everywhere
H.Rose&Co..Pty.. Ltd.. King Street. Sydney.
The "Curvilinear” Concentrating Table
SEND FOR
BULLETIN
AND
PRICE.
f
SIMPLE
AND
RELIABLE.
We are the patentees and manufacturers of this table. Call for a demonstration.
Can also quote for all classes of mining machinery, including stamp batteries,
amalgamating tables, magnetic ore separators, classifiers, agitators, everlasting
valves, water- and oil-filters, Rendrock and all other explosives and accessories.
Electric motors and Ellison switch gear.
GUTHRIDGE PTY. LIMITED,
Sole Patentees and Manufacturers,
10-12 PARRAMATTA RD., CAMPERDOWN, SYDNEY, N.S.W.
A
IT
m£K JUNSM
P
Illustrating
the LUDOWICI
PIVOT DRIVE
ft
L U D 0 WlCI S
have the answer
BEHIND the fine quality and the assurance of maximum efficiency in
Ludowici Power Transmission Equipment, stand Ludowici Technicians
—men whose knowledge and experience of every power transmission re-
quirement enable them to give a ready answer to your particular problem.
Our reputation has been built on our willingness to give an unbiassed
opinion and to recommend and supply the most suitable equipment for
each power transmission application.
You have only to ask for our advice to have it freely given.
J. C. LUDOWICI & SON LTD.
117 YORK STREET, SYDNEY
GEARS & HANGERS
LUDOWICIS
TRANSMISSION.
STATE EXPRESS
a&vayspieate i
m
/ig/ii
yotrr
money
your
War
needed now
Buy
Certificates
National
and
V
Stamps
219D-I1.4*
Mount Morgan, Ltd.
Contraction of £45,237 in last year’s
net earnings (£82,077) was due to a drop
of 37,030 tons in the volume of feed
sent to the mill, reduction in the gold
and copper content of ore treated and
rise in costs.
Gross return from the mine, etc., was
£894,619 (down £69,665). An increase of
£33,821 in mining, concentrating, reduc-
ing and refining charges (£723,579) was
almost offset by savings of £33,640 in
treatment of sulphide tailings, etc.
(£11,309). Thus profit on working ac-
count was £69,806 lighter at £159,731.
Including Federal gold tax (£17,665, up
£332) and allowance for depreciation
(£40,925, up £4905), p. and 1. charges
(£77,654) were got back £24,608. That
left £79,974 (down £44,963) net from
mining. With £2103 (down £274) from
outside, net return from all sources
was £82,077 (down £45,237), of which
£25,000 was sent to capital reserve,
making it £132,912, for redemption
of £200,000 of pref. money, repayable
Feb. 15, 1946. The prefs. were handed
their 8 p.c. (£16,000), and £2103 was
sent to special account. The balance
(£38,974 = a shade under 4d. per
2s. 6d. ord. share) was held to help
finance outlay on the new reverberatory
furnace. So the ords., who got £78,267
in the previous term, were passed by, and
exactly when they will come into the picture
again is difficult to say at the moment.
Costs advanced in this way:
1942. 1943.
Sulphide ore—
s. d. s. d.
Mining .. .. 7 11.42 8 7.94
Treatment .. 4 3.19 5 1.66
12 2.52 13 9.60
Granular tails-treat-
ment .. .. 2 9.23 1 0.60
Mining, all material.. 2 7.17 3 0.46
Smelting, per ton,
copper . . £l5 IS 9.51 £2l 8 9.26
Power, per kw. hour 0.51 0.54
Shortage of skilled labor and wage lifts
were the trouble. Another 65 men are
wanted to maintain production for the
current term; for full production, the
payroll is short of 125 names. Minimum
wage is now £5 2s. 4d. for a 40-hour
week as against £4 Bs. 4d. pre-war. Also,
shortage of shipping has meant railing a
lot of blister to Kembla at greatly in-
creased cost. And the co. is now paying
30s. per ton for coal. Change in method
of accounting is responsible for the drop
in granular tails figure.
Overburden handled last term (1,527,064
tons) was about 170,000 tons below
schedule, owing mainly to difficulty in
keeping equipment and transport operat-
ing at full efficiency. The stuff cost an
extra 4d. per ton to remove, and more
of it than usual was barren. The fall in
grade of ore was due to mining of badly-
calcined stopes on the south side of No. 5
bench. Here the co. is now in the south
dyke, a barren intrusion, which has re-
stricted throughput, lowered the grade
of ore, and is mainly responsible for the
deficits now showing up on working ac-
count—£l7,4o6 for the four weeks to
January 9, without allowing for depre-
ciation or the pref. div. Throughput of
No. 1 mill is also being affected-by the
bad settling nature of the material—ore
and filling. No. 2 mill is supplied almost
entirely with overburden’ from No. 4
bench.
No attempt has been made to prove
the value of the overburden, because of
cost. Assays are made daily as the stuff
is mined. For years it paid for cost of
mining and milling, and yielded a satis-
factory profit as well. Recently the grade
fell away considerably. The chairman
assures shareholders that “nothing has
occurred in paining operations to cause
your directors any doubt that the value
of the ore reserves is other than stated.
High copper values.... .are to be
mined in the future as the ore reserve is
dipping away underneath the overburden,
and the copper section of the mine is
behind the andesite dyke, which has not
yet been reached.”
At July 1, 1937, ore reserves were put
at 7,307,329 tons, assaying 4.26dwt. gold
and 1.77 p.c. copper. Overburden was
estimated at 21,000,000 tons. Since then
10,764,851 tons of overburden have been
removed and 3,683,781 tons ore milled.
Also 7,081,070 tons of stuff, carrying in-
sufficient value to mill, have been dis-
carded —cost £752,699, Estimated ratio
of overburden to reserve ore was 3 to 1.
Last term overburden removed averaged
1.85 tons to one ton of sulphide ore
treated. And 71.6 p.c. of total ore treated
came from outside reserves. Finances
are comfortable.
Freney Oil Co. has asked the Federal
Government for permission to resume
boring on its Kimberley area (W.A.) and
to import certain drilling tools from
U.S.A. Because of the Jap invasion
threat, Federal authorities forced the co.
to' suspend operations, and a military
guard was mounted over the bore.
Priminister Curtin was approached dur-
ing his recent visit to Perth in connection
with the request.
Westralian Mines Department says
present prices for mica are now on an
average 200 p.c, higher than they were a
year ago. Prospectors are urged to roll
up and bog in. Mica is one of the lesser
minerals in W.A., but is probably one of
the most widely diffused. The north-west
appears to have most of it.


m
O— X.
m
o
r?
G
THERE ARE FAR BETTER WAYS THAN THIS
TO KEEP YOUR WAR BONDS SAFE
Great Aunt Matilda's under-the-maitress sale
deposit won't do as a strong box for negotiable
securities.
Your War Loan Bonds are made out to bearer. If
you lose them, identification is difficult. A finder
could cash them. So could a thief, if they were
stolen.
That's why the Commonwealth Bank or your own
Bank offers special safe custody arrangements for
War Loan Bondholders.
All Bonks Offer You These Helpful Services Without Charge
SAFE CUSTODY
Just take your bonds to any Com-
monwealth Bank branch or your
own Bank and say "I wish to
lodge these bonds for safe cus-
tody." All the necessary arrange-
ments will be made for you and
your savings will be secure. No
charge is made for this service.
INTEREST PAYMENT
You can collect interest on your
bonds personally at any Bank or
Money Order Post Office, just by
handing in the Interest Coupon
from the bond itself. But, if your
bonds are held in safe custody,
you can arrange for the interest
to be paid into your bank account,
automatically, as it falls due.
ASSISTANCE
Your own Bank or any branch of
the Commonwealth Bank will
give you any further details you
Their friendly, helpful
service Is always available fo you
freely to ffld you in arranging and
protecting your War Loan invest-
ments. Do not hesitate to take
full advantage of it.
GET READY
FOR THE
&
VICTORY MAN
Make an advance subscription NOW, or buy
5/- National Savings Stamps
. PV.5.19
Queensland
insurance Co.
Ltd.
Head Office:
Pitt & Bridge Streets,
Sydney.
The Largest
Australian Company
Transacting
Fire, Marine, Accident, House*
r aolders* Comprehensive, Workers*
Compensation, Boiler Explosion,
Machinery Breakdown, Aviation,
etc.
Business, Rollery, Etc.
The Commonwealth Line
Several inquiries have been received
asking for. a summary of the financial
results of various Australian Govern-
ment enterprises. So far it has not been
possible to oblige. But results of an
investigation into the Commonwealth’s
1914-28 shipping activities follow.
The Commonwealth began trading in
November, 1914, with a number of de-
tained enemy vessels, working under the
control of the Department of the Navy.
In 1916 15 vessels, known as the
“Australs,” were acquired in the United
Kingdom, and in 1917 14 wooden ships
were ordered from the United States. The
Commonwealth Government Line was
established in 1916, and the “Australs”
were placed under its management.
Eighteen ex-enemy vessels were brought
within its control in 1918, “as were also
such vessels built ip America as were
taken over.”
Profits were made under war and
1918-21 conditions; “working profits”
between October 16, 1916, and June 30,
1921, aggregated £2,304,442. Initial suc-
cess in extraordinarily favorable circum-
stances bred greater ambitions. The Prime
Minister, W. M. Hughes, was extremely
enthusiastic, A programme of Australian
building provided for 48 vessels, half
wooden sailing ships, the rest steel cargo
steamers. Actually 21 steel vessels and two
five-masted schooners came off the slips.
Of the steamers, 19 were of 3350 tons
gross (1920 tons net), and two (the
Fordsdale and Ferndale) of 9500 tons
gross (5660 tons net). The big ships
were built by the Commonwealth Navy
Department at Cockatoo Island, together
with two of the smaller vessels ; six of
the 3350-tonners were constructed by the
N. S. Wales Government yard at
Walsh Island; six at Williamstown by
the Commonwealth Ship Construction
Branch; three at Adelaide by Poole and
Steele ; and two at Maryborough (Q.) by
Walkers, Ltd. Launchings commenced in
March, 1919, and continued at intervals
until the end of 1922, with the Fords-
dale in 1923 and the Ferndale in 1924.
The Government also had the Bay line
built in Britain, each of the five ships
13,800 tons gross (8450 tons net). They
were all handed over to the Common-
wealth between November, 1921, and
September, 1922.
Steamers thus acquired after the war
represented 48,000 net tons Australian-
built and 42,000 net tons in the Bay line.
With war-time tonnage taken in, allow-
ing for losses and sales, by 1923 there
was 170,744 net tons under Common-
wealth control. On September 1 that
year the line was passed over to a board,
following trading losses of £2,797,719 be-
tween July 1, 1921, and June 30, 1923.
Valuation was £4,749,350, against cost of
nearly £15,000,000. Operations thence-
forward until March 31, 1927, showed a
further loss of £1,922,406. There were
capital losses also on the disposal of
laid-up vessels; by the end of 1927 there
were only the Bay liners left, plus the
Fordsdale and Ferndale.
This residue of the fleet was sold to
the White Star Line for £1,900,000 in
1928. The chairman of this line later on
complained that it lost £1,476,412 of
capital in this and subsequent transac-
tions in the Commonwealth Line, and
spoke of “a very hard bargain.” To which
the Commonwealth Auditor-General
replied that White Star had “purchased
for £1,900,000 a very fine fleet of vessels
which originally cost the Commonwealth
£7,500,000.”
It should be kept in mind that
the Commonwealth Shipping Board
took over the entire fleet in 1923 at
valuations £10,000,000 below cost to the
Government; this was made possible
by writing down the ships opt of
profits on the working of ex-enemy
vessels (£3,673,494), “gross profits” on the
operations of other vessels up to 1923
(£2,493,449), insurance reserve (£901,920)
and charging the Commonwealth Gov-
ernment with a debit of £2,645,761. But
even at that, in 1933 the Auditor-General
put losses on sales by the board prior to
March 31, 1928, at £540,938, losses on the
White Star transaction at £936,438, trad-
ing losses at £2,444,085 and other losses
at £92,135 —total for the board after 1923,
£4,013,596. Taking into credit all the easy
money that came with the 1914-18 war
(nearly a third of the tonnage was com-
mandeered enemy ships), the Common-
wealth nevertheless lost £6,650,000 cold
in all stages of its shipping venture.
As for the Cockatoo Island dockyard,
for some years an appendage of the Com-
monwealth Line, the Auditor-General in
1936 reported:
This establishment, which, prior to Feb-
ruary, 1932, functioned as a Government
activity at a loss exceeding £60,000 p.a.,
was in February, 1933, leased to the Cocka-
too Docks and Engineering Cos., with the
result that not only has the annual loss
been eliminated, but, in addition, rental,
which is based on a sliding scale, has been
received as follows: First year to 28/2/’34,
£1000; second year to 28/2/ ? 35, £3877;
third year to 20/2/’36, £9031; and since
29/2/’36 the rental has been at the rate of
£15,000 p.a.
As mentioned in my predecessor’s report,
two sloops were being constructed by the
lessees under contract with the Defence De-
partment. The cost of executing the work
specified in respect of the first vessel (which
has been completed) is well within the
amount contracted for and results in the
department receiving a rebate of some
£9OOO.
There are few exact parallels between
the present war and the 1914-18 affair.
But * Governmental and departmental
ambition appears to have changed very
little. It may not be ships this time ; we
shall have to guard against its being
something else.
President Roosevelt, traditional “pump-
primer” of the New Deal period and
often described by Republicans as a
Santa Claus whom it was found difficult
to shoot, is pressing for a higher income-
tax scale in the United States. He is ask-
ing for £3500 million extra. Without
further revenue, he says, the deficit would
remain at 59 p.c. of total expenditure,
and he pointed out that individual in-
comes were now 40 p.c. higher than 1941,
after payment of all taxes—Federal, State
and local. “The time to impose high
taxes is now, when incomes are high and
goods are scarce. If we do not now pay
in taxes all we can, we shall be treating
unfairly those who face the accumulated
bill after the war.” In Australia 44 p.c,
of all Federal Government expenditure
is being met out of taxation, leaving 56
p.c. to be met out of loans. Britain is
maintaining a 50-50 Budget; Canada is
doing the same.
* * * *
The First Victory Loan is to be of
£150 million (compared with £125 mil-
lion for the Fourth Liberty Loan) and
will carry the customary rates of interest.
It will open on March 28 and will close
on May 9. As from January 17 interest
rates on new or renewed fixed deposits
for from three to 12 months have been
cut by one-quarter of one per cent.
• • * «
In the five months to Nov. 30 the Com-
monwealth had made use of £82 million
of bank-credit finance, taking the total
Treasury-bill debt up to £341 million.
The Treasurer, when presenting his
Budget, estimated that total bank-credit use
for the year 1943-44would be £103 million.
* * * *
Reductions of Is. a week, in accord-
ance with “cost-of-living” figures, take
place in the Melbourne, Adelaide, Perth
and Hobart basic-wage rates as from the
first payday in February. The average for
six capitals becomes £4 16s. a week.
* * * *
Though Canada has kept its cost of
living down to within 2.6 p.c. of what it
was in December, 1941, Donald Gordon,
chariman of the War-time Prices and
Trade Board, is not satisfied with the
position. “In actual fact,” he says, “the
Canadian record in the matter of cost-of-
living control has been better than that
of any other major belligerent country.
But war-time controls are losing the
active public support they received under
the stimulus of possible defeat or at least
of long-delayed victory. Today, if I
were summarising, I should say that the
world-war front looks extremely promis-
ing and that our home war front is far
from happy. A great deal of wishful
thinking is being indulged in about an
early peace, with quick abandonment of
war-time restrictions. Unfortunately, the
cumulative effect of shortages of civilian
supplies and raw materials, machinery
and man-power is exerting more pressure
now than at any time since the beginning
of the war. Notwithstanding the wage
ceiling many thousands of wage increases
are being demanded. As one wage ad-
justment after another is made, it is re-
flected immediately in the costs of pro-
duction, which in turn means that the
pressure on the price ceiling is rapidly
becoming insupportable. I say definitely
that inflation is no imaginary condition;
we have all the circumstances and pres-
sures which create inflation here right
now! We must fight tooth and nail to
prevent these pressures being translated
into price inflation. We are in the
greatest possible danger of failing to do
so.” In Australia, where only 28 p.c. of
the nation’s defence expenditure is being
financed out of taxation and where
Labor’s demands are in some cases much
more outrageous than in Canada, the
danger of inflation is infinitely greater.
But we rarely hear it mentioned with the
emphasis of Donald Gordon. A Federal
Minister — Lazzarini — has referred to
“talk of the financial system and infla-
tion” as “insidious propaganda”; “an
attempt to stampede the Labor people
against the Government.” Which is
indicative of the main interest of Mr.
Lazzarini. m
* * * *
The Australian and New Zealand
Governments last week agreed to sup-
port the principle that ownership, opera-
tion and control of international air
routes should be vested in an inter-
national air authority. Internal air
routes should be a country’s own busi-
ness, it was agreed, subject to certain
international co-operative'conditions. It
is also reported from Canberra that an
Australian Government monopoly of in-
ternal airlines after the war is not thought
desirable, but a 51 p.c. Government share-
holding, as in the case of Amalgamated
Wireless, has been suggested.


Built entirely in Australiajby
DUPLICATOR
• has all the finest features of high-priced
imported machines at only a fraction of
their cost. The "National" Rotary Dupli-
cator will reproduce Typing, Writing.
Plans, Music, etc.
SEND FOR ILLUSTRATED LITERATURE.
JACKSON & O’SULLIVAN Pty. Ltd.
SYDNEY AND BRISBANE =
STOP
DO
N
T
HEIL HITLER
Don’t brake suddenly ex-
cept in an emergency!
It's a little thing — but
every day thousands of
thoughtless drivers each
waste a little rubber—the
total is a tremendous
AVOIDABLE loss of rub-
ber, all desperately needed
for tanks, planes, ships . . •
Drive carefully
Australia.
to help
fl'UrtdtcqZuHZ' v/
OLYMPIC
RUBBER
mEDp
-ESI
INSULATED
CABLES
“Olympic
TYRE & RUBBER CO. LTD.
Buy 5/- National Savings Stamps
»• M
\
/
\
J
U.... • *•*•' *•*•• *•:• / * : * \* V:/*
%
\ \\ \v\Wv
Thinking what we’re thinking
•*0
That something new and better in refrigeration should come out
of all this war-time experience of meeting unusual tasks and
difficulties? Of course it must . . and at the Werner plant, we
are spending not a few moments, between busy spells, thinking
of all the things we might be able to do to make refrigeration
in the post-war, something far more valuable to industry than
anything we could ever have conceived 4 years ago.
All we ask from you now is patience patience to wait till we
finish the big tasks in hand looking after our fighting mens’ welfare
and our nation’s needs. But with that task done, then we'll be
right on your doorstep with refrigeration that will serve your
industry, your needs just as dependably as the war equipment
we build today serves its present users.
Of course we are always ready to spend a minute or two to
tell you something about refrigeration for your industry, or if you
wish to read something about it then write to us now and tell
us what you want refrigeration to do for your business.
industries
SERVED BY
WERNER
REFRI-GERA.TION,
£ Abattoirs. Bakers
0 Breweries. Butchers
0 Butter Factories. Cafes
0 Confectioners. Councils
0 Dairy Produce Shops
0 Dairies, Fishmongers
0 Fruit Storages, Grocers
0 Guest Houses, Hospitals
0 Hotels. Ice Manufacturers
0 Ice Cream Factories
0 Markets, Ships.
W.//27
m
Bm A f a *■* & Cr\
VV C. D My £• D
▼▼ CI\ll L IV PTY.tTD.
:- v : — • :"v.- v.'..:
BURNLEY STREET, RICHMOND.
REFRIGERATION for INDUSTRY
INTERSTATE AGENTS—N.S.W.: STUART, WALKER & CO. PTY. LTD., ]74 Clarence St., SYDNEY; S.A.:W. J. WHITE, 30 Grata
St ADELAIDE- W.A.: ATKINS (W.A.) LTD., 894 Hay St., PERTH; QLD.: G. A. ROCHE PTY. LTD., Cr. Ipswich Rd. and Reis
St.',' Woolloongabba, STH. BRISBANE; TAS.: NOYES BROS. (MELB.) LTD., 36 Argyle St., HOBART; 59 George St., LAUNCESTON
N.Z. Forest Products
The Auckland-registered concern of
N.Z. Forest Products, Ltd., incorporates
the blossoming plant that was cultivated,
with good profit to the cultivator and an
associated selling organisation (Smith,
Wylie and Cos.), by N.Z. Perpetual
Fofests, Ltd., which, having served
its purpose, is now in liquidation, and
has already returned more than its capi-
tal to shareholders. The Products co.
has yet to fruit so far as shareholders,
the majority of whom were once bond-
holders, are concerned.
Perpetual Forests was registered on
May 7, 1923, and 20 years have elapsed
since the first bonds were sold. The pros-
pectus of the first N.Z.P.F. bond issue
said people should come into the venture
because “for every £25 you invest you
should receive £SOO or more.” That
established a commonly-quoted figure on
the bond-selling side; on the contract
side—bonds were really contracts of land
sale, planting and maintenance —the
maintenance period was “until the forests
are realised or for 20 years, whichever
is the shorter.”
It was natural enough that the belief
arose in the minds of many people
who bought bonds that they would
be getting at least part of their “£SOO or
more” within 20 years. It was not until
Nov. 28, 1941, that the Products co.’s
insulating-board mill was opened, and
it alone cannot be expected to extract the
profit (whatever that profit may eventu-
ally turn out to be) from the co.’s
175.000 acres of pine-trees at a rate suffi-
cient to provide holders of the 991,986
5 p.c. non-cum. prefs. and 5,203,811 ords.
with even reasonable divs. The Maori-
land Government earlier this year refused
to grant the co. a license to import a pulp
and paper mill, the refusal being based on
a claim that the State Forests Department
has a priority in respect of any such
license. Cabinet has now given the co.
permission to make Kraft paper and
“multiwall” bags.
The co. and others in the industry have
been subject to Government attention for
some years. This began just before the
Bondholders’ Incorporation Commission
was set up in 1934 to straighten out com-
plications connected with the forestry-
bond business. In December, 1935, the
bondholders in N.Z.P.F. formed N.Z.
Forest Products, Ltd., to carry on the
afforestation and marketing job where
the old co. left off, and a compounding
arrangement was eventually arrived at by
the old co. and the new whereby the
assets and equities of the two interests
were defined, also the equities of the
different classes of bondholders. It was
finally settled that every holder of a bond
would receive 24 £1 ords. and six £1
5 p.c. non-cum. prefs. In addition, the
former holder of a 1924 bond (whose
trees were planted in 1925) received 11
extra ord. shares in acknowledgment of
his more mature trees ; the 1925 issue got
10 extra ords., and so on, reducing by
one share each year, until the 1934 class
got one extra share, and the 1935 class
(1936 planting) no extra shares. There
are approximately 75,000 shareholders,
40.000 in Australia alone.
A financial picture of the undertaking
at March 31, 1943, was as follows:
Paid capital £6,181,984 Freehold,
Forfeited forests, etc. £5,251,621
shares res... 6,290 Factories,
Creditors .. 43,61? plant, etc... 390,570
Tax reserve.. 11,000 Stocks, .. 47,59'4
Shares subsi-
diaries .. 3,000
Loans subsi- ,
diaries .. 31,801
Debtors .. 53,926
Investments,
cash, etc. .. 451,346
. P. and 1.
debit .. 13,032
£6,242,890 £6,242,890
Over the last three years there has been
a declinfe of £472,308 in investments and
cash, now £451,346. The decline has been
due principally to the outlay of £377,479
on the insulating-board mill, sawmills,
case mill and preservation plant, after
allowing for depreciation. Then there
have been the payment of £21,750 of
current and accumulated taxation up
to 31/3/’42, an initial loss of £8723 on
four months’ manufacturing, and forest
maintenance and development charges.
Last term, one of high activity in the
insulating-board mill, a profit on manu-
facturing of £26,356 was shown. Interest,
etc., on investments brought in £16,080.
Forest maintenance cost £15,045, land tax
£4069, administration £8903, and tax pro-
vision was £II,OOO, leaving the net profit
at £3420. But taxation in respect of the
previous term had to be met —it ran to
£7727 ; so the increase in the accumulated
p. and J. debit (£13,032) was £4308. How-
ever, royalty, less replanting, charged to
manufacturing in respect of cutover areas,
was responsible for. a drop of £11,912 in
development account; so that, over all,
there was an improvement in the revenue
position. But outlay on plant for the
year ran to £36,255 net, so that the cash
available for the buying of any paper-
making plant has been steadily dwindling.
The cost of borrowing, if the occasion
arises, will depend to some extent on how
profitable the present limited board-
making activities turn out to be.
There have been sales of Forest Pro-
ducts ords. at Bs. in Maoriland. In Aus-
tralia the market is rather stronger. The
prefs. have sold at 10s. 3d.
At the annual meeting of Mt. Isa
chairman J. Kruttschnitt pointed out
that unless there was a change in Can-
berra policy the Government would not
be in the market for the co.’s copper
after the guarantee of purchase ran out
on February 29. This after the co. had
spent almost £250,000 on developing
copper lodes and on additional plant.
Canberra later stated that it would be
guided in its policy by the world posi-
tion of the metal (which, as indicated in
B. 19/1/’44, is fast becoming easier for
the Allies). Munitions demands in Aus-
tralia have fallen away, and it is no
longer necessary to import copper.
Activity of the Commonwealth Govern-
ment’s own protege at Mt. Chalmers
(Q.), under the management of Mt.
Morgan, Ltd., has ceased.
¥ * * *
During 1943 a group of companies
selected by the Commonwealth Bank
showed profits of 5.9 p.c. on share-
holders’ funds, compared with 5.8 p.c. in
the preceding year. Earnings were still
below the average for 1941, however, and
far below the peak of 1937. The slight
recovery in 1943 seems to be traceable
to smaller provision for taxation, fol-
lowing exceptional allowance in the pre-
ceding term, when a number of cos. had
to provide for underestimated tax in
respect of 1941.


THE SERVICE MAN
Approaching a Crisis.
“Ek Dum”: With the taking of Sio,
the Finschhafen campaign virtually
ended. The enemy made little resistance.
Nambariwa village, on the approaches
to the base, was found to be empty.
From Gneisenau Point to Sio the only
Japanese encountered were dead. Some
had died on the track from wounds re-
ceived in bombing ; some had huddled in
cliff caves.
Sio, too, was a dead township, its
earthworks, piled up against attack from
the sea, pockmarked with bomb craters.
A few weapons had been tucked away in
the craters —the largest of them 81mm.
mortars. There was some field-gun
ammunition, there were some bangalore
torpedoes, wireless sets, remnants of medi-
cal supplies and the eternal squalid smell
of Japanese who live in holes in the dank
New Guinea earth. But nothing more,
though there were bivouac shelters for
about a battalion along the Goaling
River and rubber boats, which the Aus-
tralians put to good use.
With the occupation of Cape Gloucester
and Saidor and the establishment of
patrols by Allied naval forces along the
Maclay coast waters, there seems little
danger of further major Japanese activity
in this area.
In the Ramu Valley, after intensive
bombing and strafing preparation, Aus-
tralian troops moved forward on the
Faria River, struck at the Japanese left
flank in the Shaggy Ridge sector, turned
it, and, in the rain, occupied the dominat-
ing Faria Ridge and Mt. Prothero, which
hangs over the enemy rear. The enemy
was falling back toward the coast at the
week-end, much of his line having become
untenable.
Elsewhere land activity was limited.
At Cape Gloucester and Arawe, there
was little more than* patrol activity, with
small counter-attacks in the region of Hill
660 in the former area, which cost the
enemy 300 dead. But air and sea were
both lively with continual action over
New Britain and New Ireland in parti-
cular. At Empress Augusta Bay, Bou-
gainville, there were some small patrol
actions, in one of which 51 of the enemy
were killed.
Rabaul provided the South Pacific air
forces with increased incentive to blow
its facilities off the map. While maintain-
ing his air defences, filling the gaps every
time a raid depletes his squadrons, the
enemy has brought in several ships and
large numbers of barges, but there seems
to be no information as to whether these
arrived full or empty.
From Kavieng or some point there-
abouts, barges can reach Rabaul com-
fortably during the hours of darkness
and vice versa, and troops being brought
in or taken away would not necessarily
need to use Rabaul Harbor. They could
operate across the narrow neck of land
to the north-west from the long sweeping
coasts of Talili and Maliklikun bays and
the shelving beaches of Nambung, in the
Bainings region.
Attack on Convoys
Greater enemy activity in the air was
a feature of the week. On January 18
it was reported that on the previous Sun-
day about 30 or 40 enemy “O” fighters
and dive-bombers were discovered by
protective patrols, flying in formation of
fours towards a convoy off Saidor. Some
enemy fighters dived out of the clouds on
the Allied fighter umbrella. For a few
minutes there was busy shooting, but
when the Allied squadrons had shot down
17 enemy fighters and a dive-bomber
and probably some more, for “minor
loss” to themselves, the remainder fled.
Meanwhile Allied Catalinas had picked
up an enemy convoy off New Hanover.
Several explosions seemed to tear the
heart out of a 10,000-ton ship, and she
was sinking when last seen. An 8000-
tonner burst into flames after she had
been hit on the port side, and a violent
explosion on a 6000-tonner, after she
had been hit twice, seemed to light her
funeral pyre. The escort, two cruisers,
and the enemy ships themselves put up a
heavy barrage, but' all the Catalinas
came home. Reconnaissance on Mon-
day suggested that the three ships which
had been hit, and which were still burn-
ing, had been abandoned. Their escorts
were nowhere to be seen.
The main bombings reported in the
communique of January 18 were an 87-
ton raid on defensive positions at Arawe
and heavy bombing and shelling of Uligan
Harbor, where 30 enemy machines inter-
cepted. They lost three, and probably
another two, and shot down only one
Allied aircraft.
On January 16 R.A.A.F. Beauforts,
covered by R.A.A.F. Kittyhawk squad-
rons, had pattern - bombed dumps
and bivouac areas east of Gasmata
with nearly 30 tons of bombs —the big-
gest daylight attack yet made by the
R.A.A.F. The same day it was announced
that the American 58th Regiment, which
is largely made up of Red Indians, had
pushed the enemy back 1000 yards in one
sector on Arawe and had killed 139 of
the enemy and captured 28 machine-guns.
There was heavy bombing of Awar and
Nubia, where 120 tons of explosive
silenced gun positions and sent dumps
sky-high. Over Jacquinot Bay (south
New Britain) one Allied machine was
shot down by ground fire during a straf-
ing raid.
Fierce Fight Over Rabaul
On January 20 a communique reported
that 110 escorted Allied bombers had on
January 16 been concerned in a raid on
R.abaul. The objective was to attack
eight medium-sized cargo ships which
had taken advantage of the , murky
weather of the previous few days to slip
down from the north to Simpsonhafen.
The dive # -bombers came in at low level
and, despite the interference of 100
enemy fighters, scored hits on every
ship; they sank three, damaged two
and left the other three burning and sink-
ing. Apart from the fighters, every de-
stroyer and ack-ack battery round the
harbor opened up, and eight miles to the
south, in Keravia Bay, three destroyers
were kept circling like teetotums in an
endeavor to escape destruction.
The raid was, however, “no picnic.”
In spite of the hundreds of enemy
machines which have been destroyed on
Rabaul aerodromes, and the constant
blasting of runways and hangars, the
fighter’protection was superior in numbers
to the Hellcat and Corsair squadrons
which covered the raid. After the fight
it was estimated that 18 Japanese fighters
had been destroyed and 15 others prob-
ably. The Allied loss—l2—was the heavi-
est in combat over Rabaul since Novem-
ber, when, in one battle, 19 were shot
down. <
Tokyo, always expansive in these
matters, announced that 200 Allied
machines had been used in the attack and
that 102 had been destroyed. The
enemy admitted that two ships had been
sunk.
Next day General MacArthur’s H.Q.
mentioned that three Japanese ships had
been sunk—a 3000-ton freighter off the
volcanic isle of Manam, near Hansa Bay,
a 5000-ton ammunition ship and a 2000-
ton freighter off the Admiralty Islands.
Another battle over Rabaul was reported
in which one grounded ’plane was de-
stroyed and 12 others damaged and 21
interceptors shot down for the loss of a
single Allied machine.
To the enemy’s losses were added 12
fighters over Wewak, where he sent up
50 machines to intercept a raid in which
133 tons of explosives were dropped. The
attack cost the Allies three aircraft.
The Ramu River positions of the
enemy in the neighborhood of Shaggy
Ridge and the Faria River had continu-
ous attention throughout the week from
Thunderbolts and other heavy fighter
craft. On one day alone 70 tons of
bombs were dropped as a background to
the hollow reverberations of the highly-
placed and assiduous Australian 25-
pounders, which look down on many a
village held by the enemy to the intense
discomfort of the occupants.
On January 23 General MacArthur’s
H.Q. rejoiced at the sinking of a further
7000-ton enemy tanker between Wewak
and Nubia, on the north coast of New
Guinea proper, and of a 3000-ton
freighter in the Admiralties. On January
20 three parked, fighters had been de-
stroyed aj Rabaul and 15 enemy fighters
shot out of the air; six Allied ’planes
were lost. At night fires were started in
the town area. A 1000-ton freighter was
damaged off Aitape.
At the week-end more than 40 objec-
tives from Choiseul to northern New
Ireland, from Empress Augusta 'Bay to
the New Guinea coast, were under fire
or bombing, including miserable. little
enemy columns on the Maclay coast
sandwiched between the Australians mov-
ing in from Sio and the Americans off
Saidor.
In the north-western sector Ambon
(N.E.1.) had constant attention through-
out the week. On January 22 heavy
units attacked the enemy seaplane base
at Halong, Ambon wharf area and ship-
ping in the harbor, and dropped 45 tons
of bombs. Five enemy 'planes were shot
down and two Allied machines failed to
come home.
Mr. Stimson’s Summary-
On January 20 Mr. Stimson, U.S. Sec-
retary for War, said that there was evi-
dence that the enemy resistance was col-
lapsing in northern New Guinea :
Australian veterans are advancing beyond
Vincke Point —the eastern cape of SchlangC
(Snake) Harbor, the next bay after Sio on
the road to Saidor —and American troops
are squeezing the Japanese forces in the
vicinity of Saidor. There are indications
that the Japanese are trying to escape by
barge at night. Several troop-laden barges
have been sunk by our aircraft and light
naval vessels.
In New Britain, Allied troops are con-
stantly enlarging their beachheads, and in
the Cape Gloucester area 3100 enemy dead
have been counted against our losses of
228 killed and 694 wounded.
The Japanese, the Secretary said, had
become more aggressive in this area, but
the Americans had shot down scores of
their ’planes.
It is clear that affairs in New Guinea
are approaching a crisis.
Battle for Rome Begins.
“Ek Bum”: While the Eighth Army,
and particularly the Canadians, continued
to exert pressure on the Germans on the
Adriatic coast in conditions which
resemble those of the Western Front in
the last war more than any other in this,
interest shifted to the doings of the Fifth
Army before Cassino.
For its stirring to activity the air
forces prepared the way, blasting railway
suburbs of Rome and the main rail and
road junctions carrying traffic from
•northern Italy. By the end of the week
these had been so badly battered that only
one railway to southern Italy was
running—that serving the enemy on the
Eighth Army front. Large gaps had been
torn in the other two main lines, and the
roads were strafed again and again.
With Cassino in sight the Fifth Army
was faced with a strong German defence
line built along the coastal river system.
This line was about 30 miles long. Its
northern end was jammed against the
central mountain chain at Sanelia on the
flooded Rapido River. It followed that
river four miles or so to Cassino, thence
to the buttress position at San Angelo and
thence down the wide, swirling Garig-
liano, which falls into the sea about 250
yards wide in its lower reaches south of
Gaeta, where Garibaldi mopped up his
last Bourbon troops.
The inland end of the line was opposed
by General Juin’s French. Americans
faced the centre; the difficult seaward
end, where the enemy least expected any
serious attempt, was the British sector.
The British already had a grand record.
It was they who had forced the beginning
of the enemy move back from the Vol-
turno.
On June 18 the French troops, who
had taken 600 prisoners and otherwise
inflicted heavy casualties in the previous
six days, struck fiercely at Sanelia, four
miles north-east of Cassino, and the
anchor of the enemy line came away in
their hands.
The Germans at once reinforced their
centre, but hurriedly drew it back before
the fighting Americans when they received
bad news from the Tyrrhenian side —the
British had achieved the almost impos-
sible, crossed the roaring Garigliano.
They had done this by various
methods, using the night as cover. One
lot had gone beyond the river mouth by
sea. Others had crossed the river in
riddled boats against a prepared enemy
who had plastered them with mortar fire,
machine-gun fire and heavy shells from
elevated and prepared positions.
Within a few hours the British had
three bridgeheads firmly established —at
Suio, which stands 500 feet above the
immediately surrounding country, 10
miles inland ; near the Capua-Rome rail-
way, four miles from Minturno; and at
Argento, just inland from the mouth of
the river.
Furious and bitter fighting began, com-
plicated for the enemy by the surprise of
the sea landing, while the British charged
through everything, including intensive
minefields in the early part of the battle.
The enemy quickly announced the
evacuation of Minturno after bitter
fighting, and the British were no time in
making the south-eastern fringes of the
Lepini Mountain foothills. There they
warded off counter-attack after counter-
attack, while the enemy tried to get his
bent and writhing line under control by
strengthening it with fresh divisions.
New Landing
For him, there was, however, worse to
come. On January 22, while the bombers
rioted up and down Italy and the Garig-
liano front was shrouded in smoke, much
of which had been produced by support-
ing naval bombardment for the British
troops, executed by cruisers and destroyers
from the sea, a large Allied force led by
British Commandos and U.S. Rangers
and covered by a powerful air umbrella
effected a landing in the flat Pontine
region, 30 miles or so south of Rome, at
Nettuno and Anzio,
The Americans landed without oppo-
sition. The British encountered a mine-
field and some barbed-wire which caused
casualties, though these were unbeliev-
ably light.
The bridgeheads give the Allies posi-
tions within gunfire range of the traffic
routes on the sea side of the Lepini Moun-
tains, and they bring them within 20
miles of Velletri and the southern main
highway to the British front on the Garig-
liano. A few miles beyond that are the
main German traffic routes to Cassino.
And the terrain between the landing-
places and the south-western suburbs
and outskirts of Rome, which in-
clude most of the Roman railway
organisation, is made for tanks and mobile
artillery. A main road and railway to
Rome goes inland via Frascati, athwart
German southward rail communications.
The Germans seemed to have been
taken by surprise. But it is unlikely that
they will allow the position to remain
long as it is. The fate of Rome on
January 24 depended on what they might
be able to do in the next 48 hours. And
what they would do needed to be drastic,
since the Allies already had extended
their bridgeheads for several miles along
the coast and several miles inland.
The whole structure of the enemy de-
fence of southern Italy was imminently
threatened. But the German forces are
strong. Seven or eight divisions are on
the 30-mile Garigliano line —as great a
concentration as is possible on such a
front —with two or three in reserve. There
is a considerable force on the Adriatic
side.
The nature of the country is not favor-
able to manoeuvre, but is favorable to
Allied bombing, since communications
run through many bottlenecks confined
by mountains and along exposed stretches
of road from which there is little chance
of escape.
The main battle for Rome may be
said to have begun.
In the Air and at Sea.
“Ek Dum”: In the murk of northern
Europe the Germans seem to be anxiously
preparing against invasion, and there is
an air of nervous tension along the
northern and Channel coasts as the
bombers and fighters roar over to France
and western Germany.
German air defence becomes more in-
tensive with every raid —whenever the
enemy can judge where the bombs will
fall.
The fights over German cities have
reached the scale of major battles in
which, literally, whole air fleets are in-
volved with a usage of ammunition, both
in bulk and variety, comparable with that
in a great land battle on a 30- or 40-mile
front.
The two great raids of last week were
on Berlin on January 20 and on Magde-
burg the following night. While the
Berlin raid was in progress Mosquitoes
carried out diversionary operations in
the north. About 2300 tons of bombs
were dropped on a limited area in just
over half an hour, making 14,500 tons
since November 18, and among the
results of these operations about 1350
acres of Berlin are completely devastated,
including most of the official quarter
round the Tiergarten and the adjoining
fashionable West End. But from the
January 20 raid on Berlin and accom-
panying operations 34 British bombers
failed to return.
Magdeburg, a great industrial city with
a population of about 350,000, received
2000 tons of bombs in half an hour. But
R.A.F. losses increased; from the Mag-
deburg raid and a light Mosquito raid
on Berlin and minelaying operations 52
bombers did not return.
Raids on London
The following night the enemy made
his heaviest raids for a year on London,
though they did not approach the scale
of even minor British attacks on Ger-
many.
The raids began early in the evening
when the theatres were filling. As the
raiders approached, the whole sky of
southern England seemed to light up with
the beams of the searchlights and four
counties to belch flame.
Of an estimated 90 raiders only about
30 reached the London area, and 10 of
these were shot down. But there was a
trail of casualties anci damage from the
south coast to the Thames Estuary.
Berlin —not very confidently—claimed
to have started between 30 and 40 large
fires in London.
The air pounding of Pas de Calais, the
age-old approach to the traditional battle-
ground of the French border, continued.
It has been going on for over a month.
And here a sympathetic thought may be
spared for the peasant in his open fields
and the black-clothed women with their
deep baskets plodding home from the


Public Notices.
I, JACK ANDRE ANDERSON, of Norwegian nation-
ality, born at Oslo, Norway, and resident 38 years
in Australia, now residing at 7 Lord Street, North
Sydney, intend to apply for naturalisation under the
Nationality Act 1920-1936.
I, FRANCESCO ESPOSITO, of Italian nationality,
born at Ustica, Province of Palermo, Italy, and
resident 17 years in Australia, now residing at C/o
Main Roads Commission, Camooweal, Queensland,
intend to apply for naturalisation under the Nation-
ality Act 1920-1936.
. • Missing Friends.
TO WILLIAM PATRICK POWELL formerly of 179
Kent Street Ascot Vale in the State of Victoria
Barman but now of parts unknown. —TAKE NOTICE
that your wife MAVIS ETHEL POWELL has com-
menced divorce proceedings against you on the ground
of desertion during three years and upwards UN LESS
you enter an appearance in the Office of the Protho-
notary of the Supreme Court at Melbourne within
twenty-one days of the date of this advertisement
and file an answer within thirty-one days of the said
date the suit may proceed in your absence and you
may be ordered to pay costs. —P. J. RIDGEWAY, 379
Collins Street, Melbourne, Solicitors for the Petitioner.
TO HENRY DEAN formerly of Myrtleford in the
State of Victoria Gardener but now of parts un-
known. —TAKE NOTICE that your wife ANNIE
MATILDA DEAN has commenced divorce proceedings
against you on the ground of desertion during three
years and upwards UNLESS you enter an appearance
in the Office of the Prothonotary of the Supreme
Court at Melbourne within twenty-one days of the
date of this advertisement and file an answer within
thirty-one days of the said date the suit may proceed
in vour absence and you may be ordered to pay costs.
—P. J. RIDGEWAY, 379 Collins Street, Melbourne,
Solicitors for the Petitioner.
Divorce Notices.
IN Till'/ SUPREME COURT OF QUEENSLAND—
In Divorce.
TO EDWARD VICTOR BRINSTON late of Yeppoon
and Goondiwindi both in the State of Queensland
Shearer but whose present whereabouts are unknown.
—TAKE NOTICE that an action has been commenced
against you in the Supreme Court of Queensland at
Brisbane by Writ of Summons No. 1 of 1941 by
Lillian Teresa Brinston your wife in which she
claims a dissolution of her marriage with you and
by her Petition filed herein she alleges that in or
about the month of July 1938 you without cause
deserted her and such desertion has continued up to
the date of the petition AND IT HAS' BEEN
ORDERED that service of the petition and of the
writ of summons on you be effected by sticking up
on the notice board in the Registry of the said Court
a copy of the said writ and petition and of this
order and by once inserting in the Bulletin News-
paper a copy of this notice and by posting by pre-
paid registered letter post addressed to you care of
Mrs J Connellan at 22 Alma Street Rockhampton
in the State of Queensland a copy of the said writ
an office copy petition and a copy of the order If
you desire to defend this action you must within
twenty-nine days from the performance of the last
act as aforesaid enter an appearance at the said
Registry and in default of such appearance judg-
ment may be entered against you Dated this Four-
teenth day of January 1944. —(L.s.) J. S. GIBSON,
Second Deputy Registrar.
J. J. O’CONNOR, Solicitor for Plaintiff, 246A George
Street, Brisbane.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW SOUTH
WALES — In Divorce.
TO JOYCE ELEANOR FORSYTH late of 21 W.ilton
Street Surry Hills near Sydney in the State afore-
said.—TAKE NOTICE that ISAAC HENRY FORSYTH
yoUr husband has filed a Petition for Divorce No.
1799' of 1943 on the ground of adultery If you
wish to defend you may enter an appearance at the
Divorce Office Supreme Court King Street Sydney
by the Thirteenth day of March next and obtain a
copy of the petition without charge from M. B.
GILES of 29 Bligh Street Sydney Solicitor. —(l.s.)
O. K. BODY, Registrar in Divorce.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW SOUTH
WALES — In Divorce.
TO FABIAN OTTA KABER or FABIAN OTTO
KABER late of Sydney.—TAKE NOTICE that
PHYLLIS MAUD KABER has filed a Petition for
Divorce No, 1237 of 1943 on the ground of your
desertion without just cause or excuse for three years
and upwards If you wish to defend you may enter
an appearance at the Divorce Office Supreme Court
King Street Sydney by the Thirty-first day of March
next and obtain a copy of the petition without charge
from HAROLD MUNRO Petitioner’s Solicitor 81
Elizabeth Street Sydney.— (l.s.) C. K. BODY, Regis-
CO.
am
Sawn markets. Terrible events are brew-
ing in 1944 for these thrifty and devoted
people.
U-boats Catch It
At sea, around the English Channel,
there was greater war activity than for
some time. The guns of Calais boomed
against southern English coastal towns,
and the guns of Dover, attacking a con-
voy sneaking along within two miles of
the French coast, destroyed an enemy
ship with a direct, hit at 19 miles —which
must be close to a record for aimed shoot-,
ing. It brought a congratulatory message
from Mr. Churchill.
The Admiralty reported a four-day
battle in which strong U-boat forces at-
tempted to wreck a convoy between the
Azores and Portugal.
British escort vessels destroyed at least
one U-boat and probably another, and
damaged several others. Seventeen enemy
survivors from the destroyed raider were
picked up.
Coastal Command long-distance air-
craft based on Britain destroyed one Ü-
boat and damaged another, and shot
down a number’of enemy ’planes.
The Admiralty announced that the
enemy’s efforts to launch a concentrated
attack on the convoy were “completely
frustrated.” Some ships of the convoy
were slightly damaged.
Leningrad Offensive.
“Ek Dum”: Unfortunately, the “trap”
for 500,000 to 1,300,006 Germans in the
Dnieper Bend, set by newspaper corre-
spondents and radio uncles, but not men-
tioned by Moscow in official reports, did
not close.
One day, according to correspondents,
the Red Army was “poised for a decisive
blow which will seal the fate of the
500.000 Germans in the lower Dnieper—
there is little hope of their being extri-
cated.” A few days afterwards Moscow
was satisfied that the Russians were not
yielding “a single yard of ground in
the face of savage German counter-
attacks.”
On January 16 Moscow Radio, “giving
the first detailed account of General
Vatutin’s offensive, which has removed
all danger to Kiev and carried the Red
Army well over the old Polish border
and to within reach of the Bug,” claimed
100.000 Germans killed and 7000 taken
prisoner in 20 days, together with great
store of weapons, vehicles, supply
dumps, etc., destroyed or captured.
Since then correspondents have rarely
mentioned the Dnieper Bend or Vitebsk.
Of the operations in that region the Ger-
mans alleged that they had frustrated
Russian attempts to break through with
“50 rifle divisions and numerous tank
formations,” inflicting in five weeks to
January 18 losses of “more than 40,000
killed.”
■ Meanwhile the Germans spoke of a
Russian offensive on the Leningrad front.
As usual, the Russians did not mention
it for several days; but correspondents
rose to the occasion with excited leaps:
Russian tank columns driving swiftly
towards Estonia threaten to cut - off German
forces west of Leningrad. Racing across
the open country, the tanks are nearing the
Germans’ only escape railway.
Red Army forces driving towards Estonia
have splashed through a 13-mile-deep Ger-
man defence belt on a 25-mile front, captur-
ing 80 towns and villages More than
20,000 Germans were left dead on the
battlefield... .The Germans have been over-
whelmed by one of the most tremendous
barrages ever concentrated the greatest
concentration of artillery assembled during
the war [“The earth rose up under the shells
like a fountain. Enemy gun positions flew
to the sky. Minefields exploded. Nothing
could withstand the Russian fire Hun-
dreds of prisoners could not speak... .They
trembled for hours afterwards.”] Some
of the bloodiest fighting of the war cleared
a path for the Russian armor
The British United Press correspon-
dent —the gentleman who sent that
“Pravda” peace yarn said it was
“unofficially estimated that 300,000 Ger-
man troops are facing disaster as a
result of these Russian advances.”
Enemy Accounts
The enemy’s original story concerning
the new drive was that the Russians had
begun a large-scale offensive along the
120-mile-long bulge which pushed, its
apex eastward across the Moscow-Lenin-
grad railway between Novgorod, just
north of Lake Ilmen, and down the
Baltic coast.
The Russians made no mention of this,
but stressed instead that the Germans
were brutally bombarding Leningrad with
heavy batteries.
On January 18 Berlin declared that for
three days the Red Army had been trying
to unhinge the sector on the south by
attacks of utmost violence in which,
round Novgorod alone, six rifle divisions
and large tank formations were supposed
to be in use. The Germans admitted
that these southern attacks had pressed
back their front a few miles.
Heavy attacks also were supposed to
be in progress at Oranienbaum, 16 miles
west of Leningrad, where the German
line reached the Baltic coast. Paris
Radio declared that the Russians were
using 21 divisions in the offensive.
Berlin estimated the Russian force at
250,000.
A German spokesman said that power-
ful counter measures would soon be in
operation on the northern front.
Russian Announcement
Next day Moscow gave first Russian
news of the offensive:
The Red Army on the Leningrad front
in the Oranienbaum area several days ago
launched an offensive and penetrated strongly
fortified enemy defences We are success-
fully developing the offensive and ad-
vancing Other Russian forces north of
Novgorod went over to the offensive at the
same time and penetrated strongly fortified
German defences.
The communique mentioned advances
150 miles to the south-west of Novgorod
in the region of Sokolniki,
It was obvious, if this was not a
strategic retreat, that the Red Army was
striking with several objectives in view—
to clear the Moscow-Leningrad railway
and, while forcing the Germans to with-
draw their front between Leningrad and
Lake Ilmen, cutting off their line of re-
treat by a drive along the Velikiye Luki-
Riga line. Riga is a little over 200 miles
from the front at Sokolniki west of Veli-
kiye Luki. The enemy lines, as the crow
flies, were over 300 miles from the Riga-
Velikiye Luki line.
The rectangle through which a German
retirement would take place is confined
between the Baltic and the Velikiye Luki
railway.
Along the coast north of Lake Peipus
the Leningrad railway runs through the
strategic bottleneck of Narva to Reval
(Tallinn). A little over 100 miles south
of this, the Staraya Russa line goes via
Pskov, just south of Lakes Peipus and
Pskov, to Parnu at the northern side of
the Riga Gulf.
The Riga line is spaced 100 miles or
so south of this. All these three parallel
railways are linked by north-south lines
—the northern pair by five ; the southern
pair by three.
Wretched Terrain
The country is dreary swamp and
forest, which sweeps down along the
Estonian border in a long tongue. In
all Latvia and Estonia and the land
directly north of the Riga line and west
of the Leningrad-Novgorod line there
are only three tiny patches of land more
than 600 feet above sea-level. In the 100
miles between Leningrad and Novgorod
there is no big town. All along the
Estonian-Latvian borders are a myriad
little lakes.
To complete the picture of the condi-
tions under which fighting must be going
on, it must be known that the average
mean January temperature in these
regions ranges from zero to 16 degrees
Fahrenheit below freezing point, and that
the duration for which rivers and seas are
ice-bound and the ground snow-covered
is from 120 to 160 days each winter.
The season is pictured by correspon-
dents variously as “the harshest in the
century” and as so mild to be marked
by unseasonable thaws.
By January 19 it was obvious that in
these terrible conditions the Germans
were in retreat —at almost the same time
last year they began to retreat across the
northern Volkhov in the same area, thus
raising the siege of Leningrad.
Novgorod Russian Again
On January 20 the German High Com-
mand announced that Novgorod had been
abandoned.
Marshal Stalin issued an Order of the
Day congratulating Marshal Govorov, in
which he related that the Russians in the
area of Pulkova, south of Leningrad—
about five or six miles from the -outer
suburbs and south of Oranienbaum
further west —broke through a strongly
fortified German offensive zone for from
to 12i miles, and increased the break-
through in each area till it was from 22
to 25 miles wide.
On January 19, the order said. Lenin-
grad-front troops took by storm Krasny,
a fortress position defending the impor-
tant road junction of Ropsha, about 22
miles south of Leningrad. In the
course of the fighting seven German in-
fantry divisions were heavily defeated,
and Soviet troops captured a large artil-
lery group which had been systematically
sheiling Leningrad.
The Moscow communique of January
20 reported the capture of the old Czarist
palace town of Peterhof 10 miles s.-w; of
Leningrad, and announced that booty
taken on the Leningrad front included
195 guns, 37 of which were long-range
weapons of between 6in. and 16in.
It was added that 20,000 Germans had
been left dead on the battlefield, and
that 1000 prisoners were taken—by
Russian-front standards comparatively
small losses in a battle for such objectives
on a 50-mile front.
No mention was made* of the capture
of Novgorod, though it was stated that
General Meretsov’s troops had forced a
30-mile breach north of Novgorod and
advanced 18 miles and that the line be-
tween Novgorod and Shimskaya, 32 miles
to the south on the west shore of Lake
Ilmen, had been cut —apparently by a
drive across the frozen lake.
But on January 21 Marshal Stalin
issued another Order of the Day in which
he recorded that troops on the Volkhov
front, “having launched an offensive in
the direction of Novgorod, crossed the
Volkhov River and the upper part of
Lake Ilmen,” which is 20 miles from the
city, broke the long-prepared German de-
fences and, “as the result of a skilful by-
pass manoeuvre, took by storm the impor-
tant industrial-political centre of Nov-
gorod.”
Moscow reported that some separated
groups of Germans south of Oranienbaum
were encircled and were being wiped out,
and that the Red Army on the Leningrad
front had now taken 265 guns, of which
85 were long-range weapons ; also that
German dead had increased to 25,000,
while in the Novgorod sector 182 guns
had been taken with 3000 prisoners and
15,000 dead left on the battlefield.
Next came the fall of Mga, a railway
junction about 25 miles south-east of
Leningrad.
The sum total of all this seemed to be
that the Germans were in retreat on the
northern sector and were abandoning
their hold on the Moscow-Leningrad rail-
way. Leningrad had had access to the
outside world by an eastward corridor '
since February, 1943, but there was good
reason for the popular rejoicings in its
streets.
For the first time since September,
1941, the heroic citizens could go to bed
and to work secure in the knowledge that
they were out of range of German shell-
fire.
On January 23 the Red Army commu-
nique reported further advances south-
west of Mga to about 44 miles from
Leningrad towards the Volkhov River,
and completion of “the rounding-up” of
Germans west of Novgorod. It was
added that more than 1500 Germans had
been wiped out the previous day south
of Krasny, and that large numbers of
prisoners, tanks in running order and 88
guns had been captured.
* Moscow’s correspondents drew a pic-
ture of 400,000 Germans being trapped
in the Leningrad forests, with, of course,
only a single escape railway, an achieve-
ment threatened by the advance of the
Russians against Krasnovardeisk, the
junction of the Leningrad-Pskov-Dvinsk
and Leningrad-Narva railways.
Having regard to the conditions of
terrain and weather, the swiftness of the
Russian advance suggested that the fight-
ing, fierce though it might be, was only
brief. Its nature was certainly not con-
sistent with the presence of 400,000 Ger-
mans on a 100-mile front. While so little
progress had been made by the Russians
on the Sokolniki front, there was no
trap for the northern enemy armies as
a whole. The retreat, in fact, in method
and circumstances was like the other Ger-
man sector retreats in the south. .
The Position in Poland
One of the impressions fostered by
fancy reporting of the Russian war is
that the Russians will have possession of
eastern Poland within a few weeks, and
that its political fate can be at once
settled along with that of the Baltic
States.
The Germans might give up eastern
Poland, but so far they have not aban-
doned any of it save a stretch of frozen
marsh. Except in this marshland the
Russians have nowhere crossed the pre-
-1939 Polish border, much less taken back
any of the territory which they received
by agreement with Hitler in 1939.
Their points of penetration may be
points of danger to them after the thaw
unless they can greatly widen their exist-
ing bridgehead and straighten their front
considerably. Meanwhile the Germans
still have about 160,000 square miles of
Soviet Russia in their grasp. And on the
main route from Moscow to Warsaw
they still hold Orsha, over 100 miles
from the pre-1939 Polish border. In the
southern Dnieper Bend they have country
240 miles on the wrong side of the old
Russian border. And they hold the
Crimea, though there they have been cut
off since the beginning of November.
Last week the Russians were again try-
ing to secure a foothold on the Kerch
Peninsula, which is nearly 300 miles as
the crow flies from the Rumanian
Russian border.
It will be time enough to talk about
the ultimate fate of eastern Poland when
the Russians have occupied eastern
Poland and pushed the Germans far
enough west to decide its fate perma-
nently. _____________________
In brief: —
In Burma intense air operations are still being
carried on against main enemy objectives. The
Allied force in Arakan improved its position
athwart the Mayu Range, but because of the
nature of the country, which is similar to that
in New Guinea, progress is necessarily slow.
♦ * * * ,
In 1943, the R.A.F. dropped 136,000 tons of
bombs on Germany, compared with 2500 tons
dropped by the Germans on Britain. In the
first week of 1944 Britain’s quota on Germany
was 6000 tons; Germany’s on Britain, 15 tons.
* * * *
A British submarine has sunk a Jap cruiser
of the 5100-ton Kuma class off Malacca
Strait. And U.S. underwater craft have de-
stroyed another 12 enemy vessels in the Pacific
and Far Eastern waters, among them a large
tanker, two transports and seven medium-
sized freighters.
* * * *
H.M.S. Tyndale, a destroyer of the Hunt
class, launched in 1940, is reported lost.


For Blood, Veins, and Arteries
b w**
X a
*gOISTS*BD
Take It—And Stop Limping!
XT'VERY sufferer should test this wonderful new Biomedical treatment,
which brings quick relief from pain and weariness and creates within
the system a new health force, overcoming sluggish, unhealthy con-
ditions, and arousing to full activity the inherent healing powers of
the body. No ailment resulting from poor or sluggish circulation of
the blood can resist the action of “Elasto.” Varicose veins are restored
to a healthy condition, the arteries become supple, skin troubles clear
up, and leg wounds heal naturally. There is quick relief from piles
and rheumatism in all its forms. This is not magic. It is the natural
result of revitalised blood and improved circulation brought about by
"Elasto”— the tiny tablet with wonderful healing powers.
Everybody is asking—what is “Elasto”?
rpms question is fully answered in an interesting booklet, which ex-
plains in simple language this amazing method of revitalising the
blood. Your copy is Free,' se'e offer below. Suffice it to say here that
“Elasto” is not a drug, but a vital cell-food. It restores to the blood
the vital elements which combine with the blood albumin to form
cyanic elastic tissue and thus enables Nature to restore elasticity to
the broken-down and devitalised fabric of veins and arteries, and so
to re-establish normal, healthy circulation, without which there can be
no true healing. NINE TIMES OUT OF TEN THE REAL TROUBLE
IS BAD CIRCULATION
WJiat Users of “ Elasto” say:
"No sign of varicose veins now.”
"Completely healed my varicose
ulcers
"Relieved my Rheumatism and
Neuritis”
" 'Elasto’ has quite cured my
eczema.”
“My doctor marvelled at my quick
recovery from phlebitis."
Send for FREE Booklet
Simply send your name and address to "ELASTO.” Box 1552 E, Sydney, for your
FREE copy of the Interesting “Elasto” booklet. Or, better still, get a supply of
“Elasto” (with booklet enclosed) from your chemist today and see for yourself
what a wonderful difference “Elasto” makes. Obtainable from chemists and stores
everywhere Price 7/6. one month’s supnly
Stive
% '<
Wff£M F££r MW£
AMP
Get Quick, Soothing
Relief From lodex
When long hours, unaccustomed activity and hard, hot pavements
cause excruciating foot ailments, thousands find comfort with
lodex. DIRECTIONS : Soak feet in hot, soapy water for 10 minutes
and dry thoroughly. Then gently massage
lodex into the inflamed and tender parts,
giving particular attention to the skin
between the toes.
From your Chemist, Price 2/-
NO-STAIN lODINE
ƒ
SPORTING NOTIONS
(Conducted by "PILOT")
Saturday’s attendance at Randwick
fell to 34,000 —the glamor of racing at
headquarters is temporarily fading
slightly—but there was a tote turnover
of £97,460. Betting with the books was
very heavy, and when the Auditor-
General’s report for the current financial
year is published the contribution by
bookmakers by way of licenses and tax on
turnover will be read with interest.
Yaralla’s finishing run in the Challenge
Stakes was a surprise, and disposed of
the idea that his best days were over.
Ahead of only Panchio after going a fur-
long there did not seem much hope for
him, with Trimmer well in the lead and
Industry his nearest attendant. The last-
mentioned two were first into the straight
from Bangster, Triad and Hall Stand.
Half a furlong from home it was appa-
rent Industry would be unable to reach
Trimmer, but then Yaralla (Cook) dashed
up, and disposed of both. Panchio put
in his usual run from the top of the
straight, but, though he finished fourth,
was never dangerous. Grand Prodige
could not have looked better, but did not
run up to the track work responsible for
the booming he received during the pre-
vious fortnight. Hall Stand showed suffi-
cient of his earlier pace to suggest there
is still hope for him, and Bangster can
still gallop.
Salivant made a good bid to win the
January Handicap all the way over the
last mile, but, though first into the straight
from Cordale, Arahura, Riverton and
Lord Neith (Hughes), he was outstayed by
the last-named. Two’s Company was a
good third, after receiving a check along
the back, and of the remainder Cordale
was the only one reasonably close to the
place-getters.
Flight (Thompson) at 5 to 1 on duly
won the Adrian Knox Stakes after Fel-
beam had raced with her to the straight
entrance. Over the last couple of fur-
longs Flight was going at her ease, but
still ran the mile and 27 yards in 1.38.
Felbeam, in pacing it with Flight, ran
herself out, finishing last, while Enthuse
narrowly beat Annie Laurie for second.
Gay King accounted for the Valicare
Handicap. He looked beaten when
Strathdarr, who blundered at the start,
headed him in the straight, but, coming
again, he defeated the latter two lengths.
Britannic, who will do better later on,
was a close third, and Felcorn finished
fast to get fourth. Sir Edward, a good-
looking colt by Mid Kent from Neat
Rose, displayed pace, as did Union Jack
(who met with a little interference), Pax
and Cold Shower (by Midstream). Bel-
tana was again disappointing, but luck in
running was against him. Gay King is
by Coronation Day (by Coronach) from
Lothian. •
Beau Rasade (J. Thompson) won the
Encourage Handicap in decisive fashion
from Cumberoona and Russia after
Berne and D.S.O. had led into the straight
from Lawgiver. The last-named looked
a place possibility a furlong from home,
but faded. Manday Son hung on well
to run fourth, while the heavily-backed
Buzz Off was an absolute failure, never
raising the hopes of his backers. D. 5.0.,
who is much better in private than in
public, dropped out in the straight, and
Prepare did not run as well as at her pre-
vious outing.
In appearance Kimbell (Cook) is essen-
tially a welter horse, and he again proved
himself one in the Paddington Handi-
cap. Taking charge in the first furlong
he led for the remainder of the trip, with
Thrax his nearest follower most of the
way. Boorchief came home well to run
the latter to a head for second, and Tel
Asur, Glendower and Adjust were most
prominent of the others. A suburban
mile and a quarter handicap should be
a possibility for Adjust. Tel Asur had a
71b. allowance for an apprentice rider,
but he is not a boy’s horse. There was
some support for Gigli and Merrimba,
but neither was sighted. Pall Mall looked
well, but finished a long way back, as did
Flying Shuttle, after being well placed at
the turn. It may not be long before she
strikes old Wm.
* * * *
Bookmakers experienced one of th|ir
worst days on record for Moonee Valley.
Five of the seven races were won by out-
right favorites —Lord Jevington, Wing-
fire, Lawrence, Reception and Valour—
and Manito, backed from 10 to 1 down
to 6 to 1, was a losing result for most.
Matters, however, could have been
worse. Heat affected the attendance, and
turnover was less than usual.
The judge was hooted and a protest
upheld after Lawrence and Approve had
dead-heated for first in a sensational race
for the Tweedside Handicap. Backers of
Lawrence, 5-to-4 favorite, thought he had
won outright, and voiced their opinions
accordingly in one of the worst demon-
strations for some time. Approve headed
Lawrence in the straight, but the latter
raished another effort and appeared to
just win. The angle is deceptive, however,
and only the judge could decide. Decision
by the stewards to award the race to
Lawrence on protest amazed close
watchers of the race. Whatever inter-
ference occurred in the straight was not
serious—in fact, nobody wanted to bet
on the protest.
Lawrence’s success increased his earn-
ings to £5246, a splendid return for an
original outlay of 350gns. Many keen
judges consider he may have won the 1 *
Victoria Derby but for his accident at
Moonee Valley a week earlier, and now
he has emphasised his V.R.C. St. Leger
prospects. His trainer, L. Robertson, is
fortunate in respect of good three-year-
olds. His team also includes Simmering
and the Oaks winner Three Wheeler.
Reception, carrying maximum weight,
9.5, and starting favorite at 2 to 1, out-
sped Law Student and Regency in the
William Reid Stakes. He dashed to the
front before the turn, and was not in
danger of defeat subsequently. Recep-
tion is as good as ever at the age of eight,
and, all going well, will be a runner for
the Futurity and Newmarket. For his
present owner, who bought him for
500gns. in October, 1941, he has won 11
races and £3840 in stakes.
A substantial offer was refused for
Valour before he defeated Grain Trader
and Helianthe in the Cranmallan Handi-
cap. Favorite at 5 to 2, he stuck to the
rails throughout, shot through an open-
ing on the bend and won as he liked.
Valour’s win was his first for over two
years, but he broke down in the Aus-
tralian Cup of 1942, in which he was just
beaten by Wise Counsel, and was sent for
a long spell. At that time he raced as
Togo, but his name was changed after
Japan’s entry into the war. It is intended
that Valour shall contest the Australian
Cup again this autumn.
* * * ♦
Lord Neith and Two’s Company shone
most of the fancied Anniversary candi-
dates that ran at Randwick on Saturday.
Excuse was possible for Two’s Company,
but she was doing no better at the
winning post than Lord Neith, who beat
her at least 31b. and will meet her 51b.
better in the Anniversary. It was Lord
Neith’s best staying effort, his time for
the li mile 27 yards being equal to about
for a mile and a quarter.
The extra quarter-mile in the Anni-
versary may bother him, but he ran on
well on Saturday and will carry 91b. less.
He will meet Veiled Threat 111 b. better
than when the latter beat him a head in
the S.T.C. Handicap, At the time of writ-
ing it is possible the Australia Day Han-
dicap will be chosen for Flight in prefer-
ence to the Anniversary.
* * * ♦
In the joint ownership of Messrs. F. J.
Smith and F. Packer the British Blood
Stock Agency purchased the following
mares in England last year: Port Dom-
bey, by Portlaw from Florence Dombey,
dam of Felcrag; Cetracia, by Gold
Bridge from Sea Cat, and in foal to Bold
Archer; Lady Kilmurry, by Sir Cosmo
from Kilmurry—a winner and in foal to
Pearlweed, a French Derby winner; and
Helidore, by Ramesis II from Lady
Eliza. She is in foal to Gold Bridge. All
the mares are young and, closely related
to winners, are a desirable asset to
N.S.W.’s bloodstock.
* * * *
A prominent trainer in another State,
in upholding a fellow-trainer for allegedly
giving “don’t knock him about” orders
and getting into trouble, said stipendiary
stewards have their good points but are
not infallible. Probably, so, but that can
also be said of trainers. He favored lati-
tude where horses were not quite fit, but
it would be asking a little too much of
stewards to suggest they should counten-
ance a code of racing ethics which per-
mitted any trainer to prepare his horse
in races until he thought it “something
to bet on.” No matter what trainers’
opinions on that point may be, race-
goers really are entitled to some recogni-
tion and protection.
* H= * *
At different times we have read jockeys’
ideas as to what a danger inexperienced
apprentices are in races. Perhaps so, but
it is caustic commentary on the value of
those opinions that during the past nine
'or ten months in Sydney very few in-
experienced lads have brought punish-
ment on themselves, while riders sus-
pended for allegedly careless riding
included five leading jockeys, three of
lesser note and two most successful and
experienced apprentices. Evidently the
stewards believe that “tricks of the trade"
constitute a greater danger than inexperi-
enced lads,
* * * *
A correspondent asks: “Why is it that
so few breeders race to any extent?”
Well, it is reasonable to assume that they
find selling and leasing horses more
profitable than paying training and other
incidental expenses, and Jhey also avoid
the disappointments that, at some time or
other, fall to the lot of most racehorse
owners.
* * * ♦
Most of the Sydney horses that were
spelled after spring racing have returned
to work, and it is not improbable that
the three-year-olds will do particularly
well in the autumn. Our older w.f.a. horses
are not really high-class. Katanga is still
entitled to be reckoned the best, though,
if Main Topic returns to his Metro-
politan form, 9st. in w.f.a. races should
give him an excellent chance of adding to
his record. It is a weight he can handle.
Dewar and Abspear have seemingly de-
teriorated at all distances, and their
trainer may have trouble in effecting a
surprise with either. Veiled Threat may
enter into calculations in w.f.a. races, but
it looks as if it will be advisable to stand
the three-year-olds in preference to the
older horses in the autumn. Now that
Yaralla has shown he is still brilliant he
may be the best of the latter up to nine
furlongs.
Miscellaneous
Stan Wilkes (10.2) is still unbeaten at
Leichhardt, but on Thursday night Billy
Fletcher (9.9) looked like doing the trick.
A straight left to the face caught Fletcher
off balance and floored him before they
had been fighting a full minute. He
sprang back into action without taking a
count, and maintained a vigorous offen-
sive, a right to the point putting Wilkes
down in the fifth. The bell came to
Stan’s rescue at “five,” and at “corners”
Fletcher complained that the fist that did
the damage, jarred when he knocked out
Grant last month, had been hurt. Seconds
skied the towel for him in the sixth.
With every physical advantage Norm
Harvey should have beaten Jim Grey at
Sydney Stadium, but, inferior in boxing
brains, his extra height, reach and weight
availed him nothing. Grey did nearly
all the attacking and proved an apt pupil
of Ambrose Palmer. The decision for
Grey was the only one possible, although
a few Harvey supporters greeted it with
hoots.
FOR RANDWICK.
(Before acceptances.)
By “PILOT.”
Bondi Handicap: Annie Laurie,
1; Sunfel, 2; Sir Francis, 3.
Havilah Handicap: Felcorn, 1;
Prince Galahad, 2; Gay King, 3.
Kurnell Trial Handicap: Etching,
1 ; Cumberoona, 2 ; Eastralia, 3.
Australia Day Handicap:
Hesione, 1 ; Yaralla, 2 ; Flight, 3.
Anniversary Handicap; Grand
Fils, 1 ; Lord Neith, 2; Veiled
Threat or Moondarewa, 3.
Phillip Handicap: Silverelda, 1;
War Effort, 2; High Flight or
Martheus, 3.


Women's Letters
From Sydney
Possibly there never have been such
numbers viewing an Archibald Prize
entries exhibition as on last Saturday.
True, there were some Philistines in the
groups so lost to art that they laughed
gaily at some of the exhibits. One robust
son of Australia laughed so loudly that a
nervous-looking attendant peered sharply
through the archway to the display court.
Then, however, the scoffer fell silent
viewing Joshua Smith’s portrait of Dame
Mary Gilmore.
As Americans might say, artist
Margaret Coen looks “real romantic”
as painted by Mary Edwards. This pic-
ture is so full of charm that a poem
might be written to it. Mary Edwards
has done nothing more tenderly captivat-
ing. Another portrait by the painter of
the winning entry shows again the Cruik-
shank and Hogarthian throwback of
Dobell’s imagination. It just proves that
artists are more devastating acquaintances
than doctors. Lieut. - Commander
Graham, of the U.S.N., had admir-
ing glances cast at him. Artist Joseph
Wolinski, who had painted him, re-
ceived many congratulations. Cutler,
V.C., had inspired both Hanke and Dora
Toovey. Sylvia Davis’s portrait of
Barbara Monroe (who was Barbara
Salenger) was among the admired. Ser-
vice uniforms and decorations blaze
from the walls —the sea, the land, the air
are represented by their followers, male
and female.
Randwick was not very densely popu-
lated on Saturday. Indeed, the Anniver-
sary meeting scattered a mere 35,000 or
so punters over the scene. The day was
blistering hot, and frocking was of the
tub variety. The thinnest of silks and
cottons and \Vide-brimmed sailors proved
the most effective wear. Owner Monte
Walker got a thrill out of Yaralla’s win.
Newly-engaged girls had a fancy for
Two’s Company, and if they backed for
place picked up a few shillings. Beth
Passmore was a pretty visitor from
Queensland.
Captain Jack Griffiths, of Wellington'
(M.L.), who is A.D.C. to Lieut.-General
Frey berg, was married last Saturday.
His bride is Jean Pearson, and St. Philip’s
on Church Hill gave the blessing. The
romance started in 1938, when Captain
Griffiths came to Sydney as one of the
All-Black football team. History House
(the Royal Australian Historical Society’s
clubrooms) was the scene of the recep-
tion.
In Trafalgar-street, Annandale, there
flows no glinting stream, nor even is there
a far-flung vista of Port Jackson, but
there are fleets of ships there ; in fact, a
first-class navy. The hands of eager
small boys have fashioned them. Maybe
it is the touch of Nelson in their blood,
or maybe the word Trafalgar acts un-
consciously on the brain. The yard where
these ships have been hewn and smoothed
is the Annandale school, which is
crowded in on all sides by other build-
ings, and has a narrow, arid playground
completely covered with asphalt. Since
the Christmas holidays started the school
has become a play centre, one of the 60
or so hatched by the National Fitness
Council.
Here one day last week were small
girls and boys busy with paints and
crayons, busy with important-looking
scraps of wood and leather. Nancy and
Betty and Anne, three earnest little girls,
surrounded by equally earnest com-
panions, were busy modelling stale bread
into shells and other pretty shapes. In
a corner of an outer room there was a
sand pile on which two or three baby
things played at beaches. Bright-faced
supervisors directed the children’s activi-
ties. And yet,it was a sight to make the
tears rise. For baby eyes should know
the green of growing trees, the curve of
wave breaking on a beach. Surely when
the war is ended here is a work lor
women —to see that holiday camps in
bushland and by the sea are provided in
such numbers that every schoolchild in
the land can have at least a week in
idyllic surroundings.
This is not finding fault with the work
of the National Fitness Council. It is
doing the spadework in a grand campaign
for the health and happiness of the child.
The play centres are doing a good job.
It is up to Sydney to help them to ex-
pand. Up in Parramatta and in Stanmore
the play centres are ideal. The King’s
School and Newington College have in
these places given over their playing
fields, their swimming pools and craft
rooms for the youngsters’ delight. In
the more congested areas games are
organised on the nearest sports oval for
the older girls and boys. Sometimes there
is a day trip to Manly or Bronte. The
N.F.C. has -started the good work. Every
man and woman who remembers a happy
childhood must help it on.
The N.S.W. branch of the People’s
Foreign Relations Association of China
is paying a pretty compliment to this
country by dating its dinner in the
Town Hall for tonight. January 26
(Anniversary Day) is set about with
memories of the labors and achieve-
ments of our pioneers. The invitation to
the dinner sets out that it is “to thosse
who believe that China and Australia
have a mutual interest in security and
peace in the Pacific.” On each card is
superimposed the figure of a Chinese
mandarin, whose long silken beard
reaches almost to the hem of his red coat,
which tops full blue trousers. A pro-
gramme of music will be given by Chinese
singers and instrumentalists.
Lieut. Stella England’s profession is
that of psychotherapy. But after the
war gong sounded she joined the
W.R.A.N.S. and was for a year attached
to Canonbury Navy Hospital. At the
end of that time she was released to go to
the American Red Cross. After six months
Lieut. England was sent to the South
Pacific, where for about three months she
was supervisor of the American Red
Cross Women’s Barracks. All her spare
time was spent at the Allied Service Club,
and here she helped many a young sol-
dier with her sympathetic advice. Norton
Trevaire took this photograph of Miss
England in the smart grey uniform of
th 6 U.S. Red Cross.
Though her larder may not be so
stuffed with food during the coming
months the Sydney woman’s brain will get
a chance to be stuffed with dietetics and
nutrition values. The Red Cross has
organised a series of lectures showing
how proteins, calories, carbohydrates
and the rest will build a ship of health
that will go sailing smoothly along the
alimentary canal. This will mean the
right build-up physically and mentally
for the family and the community.
For the first lecture, yesterday, there
was quite a roll-up at SaVoy Elouse in
Bligh-street. Film and graph prepared
by the Commonwealth Nutrition Commit-
tee drove home the lesson of food values.
These lectures are the outcome of expert
knowledge and will be given by lecturers
from the N.S.W. Dietetic Association.
The course will cover six weeks, and after
that there will be an oral examination,
rewarded by a certificate for the attentive
students who remember well. A small
book with a summary of the lectures has
been printed by the Red Cross. Next
lecture will be on the 28th.
There’s a grand group of women in
Sydney who, after slapping the covers on
their typewriters and slamming the safe
door on the ledger, sharpen their needles
and wax their thread and set to work
mending, altering and repairing for the
men of the services. The work has been
going on for over three years, the mem-
bers giving their leisure time to working
at the various Sydney camps. Within
the last few weeks the corps has extended
its services, and in addition to work at
the camps the Combined Services Hostels
at Clarence-street and at Croydon are
valeted. Members take it in turns to
work at Clarence-street every evening
and at both hostels on Sunday. For all
this there is no charge at all.
Service men on leave or passing
through Sydney may leave work with the
manager at the hostel, 208 Clarence-
street, and collect it there when it is
renamed. Each parcel must bear the
owner’s name, together with full mstru -
tions as to what is required to be done.
After more than three years working en-
tirely for the Army the Sewing Corps
finds it interesting to attend to the ward-
robes of the Navy and the Air Force.
Creation Dances is the title of Phyllis
Campbell’s book of verse brought out in
time for the holiday season. This book,
besides the simple charm of its style, is
notable, in a day of paperbacks, for its
neat green-and-gold binding.
From Melbourne
Rationing authorities have been quick
to issue fresh coupons to bushfire
sufferers, but there will be a lot of things
that neither coupons nor money man re-
place, as they’re not on the shopping
counters any longer. Very much alive
to this is Mrs. T. J. Hogan, who knows
all about it, being a Beaumaris house-
owner. She is urging women who’ve not
had to suffer to do a bit of self-sacrificing
and give to Bushfire Relief things they
really value as well as left-overs. Half
a dozen of one’s best lawn hankies, she
suggests, would be a very Christian gift,
as they’re irreplaceable. As a member of
a bushfire relief squad, Mrs. Hogan
found that the most welcome sight for
women sufferers who were still sound in
wind and limb was a spot of powder
and lipstick.
Planning for their annual coffer-tilling
button day, the A.I.F. Women’s Associa-
tion committee met with the Lady
Mayoress at the Town Hall last week.
Mrs. Clive Steele, the association’s secre-
tary until domestic cares forced her to
resign the position some months ago, will
be organiser of the day, and Mrs. Walter
Carnegie, always ready with a willing
hand and purse to help a good work, is
convenor of the button-day committee.
Newest baby on the association’s list of
responsibilities is the holiday home for
wives and children of A.I.F. nien which
was opened at Frankston late last year,
and has proved very popular.
The gathering of suburban mayoresses
around the luncheon table at the
invitation of Melbourne’s first civic
lady was a rather unusual affair.
There was lots to talk about and
plenty of room for agreement, as the
guests all have much the same problems
to contend with in the municipal social
round. Another link, which the mayoral
lady shared, was that of soldier sons and
anxious waiting for news from many
fronts, including p.o.w. camps, and there
was a lively exchange of information
gleaned from letters. The mayoresses met
Mrs. Clarence Spiker, wife of the Ameri-
can Consul. She wore a black frock pat-
terned with a white lily-of-the-valley
motif and tiny off-the-face hat, the Con-
sular lady having all the charm and smart-
ness that Australians have come to asso-
ciate with American women. Like many
of her countrywomen here she’s a good
speechmaker —brief and to the point.
The lunch was also a chance for those
present to say good-bye and good luck to
Pat Jarrett, pictured here, who will soon be
off to Bengal, where she will be Mrs. R.
G. Casey’s secretary. (She had already been
a member of the Casey menage during
R.G.’s term in Washington.) Fellow-jour-
nalists are saying their farewell at several
get-togethers —women journalists had
theirs last week —and there is a lot of
similar God-speeding being said by citi-
zens, notable and otherwise, that Miss
Jarrett is linked with through her many
activities.
The way of the bright, young thing led
mostly in the direction of the University
last week, as enrolments for courses were
in full swing. A lot of lasses are finding
it a hard job to decide whether to go
into one of the women’s services when
they leave school or to put in the next
few years training for a career. Service
heads quite often suggest the latter, as a
girl with a strong intellectual bent doesn’t
find the bulk of service jobs interesting,
and unless she’s trained and experienced
in some field cannot be given skilled
administrative work to do.
Civilian damsels might well cry “O
for a uniform!” when they take a quick
look through the glass doors of the new
club fqr service women Army Canteens
has opened in Degraves-street. Some-
thing of the kind has been needed for
some time, as service personnel is grow-
ing all the time and accommodation
around these parts gets scarcer and
scarcer. The new club is for all below
warrant-officer rank, and has sleeping
accommodation for 100. Service women
passing through the city can call for a
shower and a shoe-shine.
The inner woman is catered for by a
dining-room, where .three-course meals
are served, and by a snack bar which
is open all day and quite a slice of the
night. At the latter service-men escorts
are welcomed. A downstairs lounge, one
of three, is also open to service-men
guests. The club is staffed by members
of the A.W.A.S., and furnishing is in the
same blue cloth and light wood combina-
tion that is so effective and restful in the
similar club opened earlier for feminine
personnel.
The Red Cross conference, which is
bringing delegates to the city from all
States, means lots of work for publicity
officer Kathleen Gepp,.whose duties in-
volve a good deal of travelling about to
various centres of Red Cross activity.
This doesn’t come amiss to Kathleen,
as, like the rest of her family, she likes
to be on the move. A younger sister, fol-
lowing this bent, is ferrying R.A.F. ’planes
in England.
News that Prof. R, M. Crawford, of
Melbourne University, is returning after
a spell in Moscow has caused be-
stirrings among students who “sat under
him” in history lectures, as the Scots
have it. Those who were students in his
first year are planning to entertain him
at luncheon. They have kept up old
associations with an annual dinner since
their finals year, and the prof, has always
been a guest of honor. It’s hoped that
he’ll have the answer to all the “How do
they do it in Russia?” questions.
Trixie Oldham’s knot-tying was very'
much an army affair, as she is Lieut.
Beatrix Oldham and her husband is Lieut.
John Ettelson, A.1.F., who has seen ser-
vice on a number of fighting fronts. Best
man was Chaplain-Captain Guy Julian,
who’d promised to tie the knot but had to
accept another role for ecclesiastical
reasons. Trixie is a physiotherapist.
News from London concerning details
of the Duchess of Gloucester’s Australian
wardrobe is stirring up conversation of
a sort very dear to the feminine heart.
The announcement that one outfit will
be a specially-designed yellow tweed has
precipitated controversy as to how canary
homespuns would look on the average
woman. In Melbourne, of course, the
royal lady will have a better opportunity
than in centres further north of exer-
cising her well-known liking for suits.
Mothers of small boys aren’t the only
adults who are wondering why school
holidays were invented. The city receives
a daily visitation of the holidaying ones,
accompanied by parents and aunts, bound
for afternoon films or shopping expedi-
tions. The effect is to make streets as
crowded as they were during the
Christmas shopping struggle. Worst spots
are the picture-theatre areas, where several
queues, each some 50 yards long, mingle
before the shows start, and where vast and
quite impenetrable masses are belched
forth when the afternoon performances
close.
The ever-popular “Sylphides,” followed
by “The Revolution of the Umbrellas”
(choreography by Kirsova; music the
work of the co.’s pianist, Henry Krippsh
was the programme for Saturday night’s
ballet. Audience was very appreciative,
especially of the ballroom scene in the
brolly piece. Among first-nighters were
the Bowen Pain pair, with the knightly
Stephen Morells, Mrs. Billy Thwaites and
;Mrs. Bob Grove, looking very soignee in
an Edwardian hair-do.
At the intervals the audience strolled
around the exhibition of drawings and
paintings, mostly of ballet subjects, in
the foyer. Contributors to this collection
are many, and the style varies from
straight portrayal of the ballerina in
action to dancing figures limned in circles,
reminiscent of the strange but oddly im-
pressive stuff Nijinsky drew when he was
going mad. Interesting work, orthodox
but original, is Mavis Ripper’s collection
of ballet sketches (she has been putting
her talents to a practical use for many
years as one of Melbourne’s dress de-
signers). Alannah Coleman, whose statu-
esque blondness graces most ballet first
nights, is represented by some portrait
heads, and so also is June Morton. Dot
Mendoza’s teen-age daughter.


QUICKand DEADLY
ƒ
with
(Regd.)
SAVE
MANPOWER
“IT’S THE GAS THAT KILLS THEM”
CYANOGAS quickly, cheaply, cleanly and safely destroys rabbits and all
vermin. Economical, easy to use. No waste. PROTECTS YOUR SHEEP.
o n‘S!“. l k“Jp P :"
throughout Australia.
BUZACOTT-WOLSELEY PTY.,LTD.,
7-11 MARKET STREET, SYDNEY.
SPECIAL NOTICE. *
THE HYGEIA DISSOLVENATOR
in itself if “"f 1 ® 6 * 1 c, ° Bet P an b «* » complete self-contained sanitary system
matter is dissolved and sterilised in the machine and automatically
FUnS off an(i is absorbed in the soil. No water supply required.
VED BY THE BOARD OF HEAETH AND IS FUEEY GUARANTEED.
sturdii^ss^efflcfencj^hn lol^Av]# aVe r tt and dHring P ast years, but the
y and longevity of the Hygeia Dissolvenator are beyond dispute.
NO SMEUXS. NO FEIBS. NO GER3IS.
No emptying or unpleasant jobs. Any handyman can instal it.
Pluses/ 1 ™ 776 f V- S¥DMY - including 125% Sales Tax.
8 war surcharge. Crating (if necessary) 10/9 extra.
WRITE OR TELEPHONE FOR lEEUSTRATED PAMPHLET
HYGEIA SANITARY Co. Pty. Ltd • Telephone 81052, ’
tamable direct from us or all leading stores, pastoral firms , etc. Agents all States.
QUe Trio Is a Co-op S Co Pli ?td Lt M; 1 . R , n ' Sbatle: R H p lT \ S f T Soarfe ’ Ltd > Victorian
P ‘ U Ud - Melbourne; R. P. Mclnerney and Co., Ltd., Perth.
For Australia at
War
Tq.
X>
O
Q
O
2
D
TO,
Qfe
LATHES . . . CAPSTAN TURRET LATHES
SHAPING, MILLING and PLANING
MACHINES .... BORING MILLS
MACHINE-CUT GEARS for the Trade
MARS MACHINE TOOL Manfg. Go.
Pty. Ltd. Bridge Street, Valley, Brisbane
WHY BE TROUBLED
WITH WAR-TIME ILLS
THIS PROVEN TREATMENT
★ brings HAPPY RELIEF^
War-time living, strain,
worry, often irregular hours
and meals, frequently bring
health troubles in their train.
Rheumatism, kidney troubles,
sluggish liver, constipation,
are just some of the ills
which these irregularities
may cause.
But all these disorders are
genuinely and promptly
helped with R.U.R.
R.U.R. gently nudges kidneys
and liver, and gets them on
the job again.
It aids in reducing uric acid
accumulations, and keeps
bile flowing freely.
Thus, frequent causes of
faulty elimination are cor-
rected. Normal functions are
restored, and glowing health
is a speedy result. Pain and
discomfort disappear.
Yes, take R.U.R. regularly
for a while, and lethargy dis-
appears, to be replaced by
fitness and vigor.
Your chemist or store sells
R.U.R., so if you are “down
to it” —if you are suffering
from rheumatism, sciatica,
lumbago, neuritis, kidney
troubles, sluggish liver, con-
stipation—get R.U.R. right
away. If you can’t get R.U.R.
locally, send 4/- for the
smaller size, or 7/6 for the
money-back guaranteed full
treatment to R.U.R., 841
George Street, Sydney.
TAKE R.U.R. HKD YOU MBS
Where there’s
a child
there should he
BOURNVILLE
COCOA
Bournville Cocoa is a grand food for
growing children. Milk in itself is a.
valuable food, but when Bournville
Cocoa and a little sugar are added,
you obtain 45 per cent, more nutri-
ment than from milk alone. More-
over, in Bournville .Cocoa you provide
a drink that is welcomed by children
who often refuse mdk. The rich,
chocolaty flavour of Bournville Cocoa
is the secret. There’s no other cocoa
like Cadbury’s Bournville Cocoa,
f
Made by CAD B _ RY
makers of Dairy Milk Chocolate and Energy Chocolate
H 31 5
SMOKE-OH!
“Wanted, Shop Hand, experience not vital,
full five days a week.” — "S. M. Herald” ad.
The rest of the week, being his own, he
can stay sober if he likes.
4* 4* 4* 4*
“With your stew serve something sharp.”
• —Cookery note.
To put an edge on your appetite?
4* 4* 4* 4*
“The march of fashion is mathematical
severity.”— Woman’s mag.
It’s particularly severe on figures which
are out of proportion.
4* 4* 4* 4*
“Men in Japan have to lift their hats before
speaking to a policeman.”— "World’s News.”
Here people who lift anything find it’s
the policeman who speaks to them.
In Three Lessens.
“How can I remove a cork from inside a
bottle? ” — Correspondent.
1. On the bottle drop a brick (mind
your eyes and throttle).
2. The cork, undamaged, you’ll retrieve.
3. Then sweep up the bottle.
Yair.
•I* 4* 4 4 4*
“Now is the time to revolutionise your
beauty.”— "Woman.”
All the same, don’t make your lips and
cheeks too red.
4* 4* 4* 4"
“In these days of food rationing it is com-
forting to learn that when our meat supply be-
comes inadequate we may turn with some hope
of survival to ants. They are often eaten raw,
and are regarded as a delicacy.”
—Writer in "Medical Journal of Australia.”
He must be after a bite.
4* 4* 4* 4*
“Woman applies for meat coupons for her
dog.”— "Argus.”
He’ll have to be satisfied with licking
his chops.
4* 4* 4* 4*
“How do you hold a girl?”— "Bewildered
Boy” in letter to Dorothy Dix.
Husbands whose wives are on war
work will have to sew on their own
buttons or be pin-up boys.
■f
Contemporary art looks like child’s
play to us.
•b *s* 4*
“Writer asks what happens when a dingo
meets a fox.”
He’d better ask those who witnessed
the last meeting of Mussolini and Hitler,
•b *b *b
“Dorothy Lamour says she is tired of
sarongs'; ’ ’ — Cable.
Aggravating, perhaps, but the censor
won’t let her appear without one.
4* *b
“The blackleg disease has broken out in . a
north-western area of Victoria. Argus.”
A.W.U. organisers have been ordered
to keep a close lookout for scabs.
Very Doubtful.
The question is whether the finite mind
Can ever, even in the fourth dimension.
Conceive the inconceivable. I find,
Although philosophers make some
pretension
To rend the veil of doubt and peer
behind.
They cannot comprehend their com-
prehension.
And so with all i strongly disagree;
And, furthermore, I disagree with me!
T. W. NATHAN.
Paradox.
“Her husband would be a man who made at
last a thousand a year, and did not drink
heavily.”— Woman’s paper.
O inconsistent Eve! Her mood
To contraries is running ever. '
Her husband had to be well screwed.
But as for getting well screwed —never !
H. M.
Take our advice and hold her off.
But, if you will be stupid.
And have an overpowering urge
To feel the darts of Cupid,
Don’t hold her cheap — you’ll fool your-
self.
Your peace she’ll soon destroy;
For soon she’ll put the stranglehold
On you. Bewildered Boy.
J. D. F.
“....Like the Pard.”
“A man more than 70 years old with a white
beard down to his waist was sent by Man-power
to Chatswood iceworks.” —Sydney “Sun.”
What of it? The utmost harm that could
come to him would be if an exasperated
fellow-workman, after listening to the
septuagenarian frozen - water juggler
quavering about how they used to be able
.to buy half a sheep for a bob back in
’eighty-three, were to jam his tormen-
tor’s ziff between a couple of double-
sized blocks and let him stay there until
they melted.
My own grandparent wasn’t so fortu-
nate.
Rising 97, Grandpop was called up by
Man-power under a slight misapprehen-
sion. He had filled in one of the ques-
tionnaires we all got a year or so back,
but, not being strong on spelling or form-
filling, had put “Yes, Sedan” against the
question “Can you drive a motor
vehicle?” intending to put it opposite
“Have you had previous military experi-
ence? If so, say where.” They promptly
sent him to a motor works, where he was
given a job running parts around on a
motor-scooter.
Grandpop had a beaver which he had
been cultivating assiduously since 1861.
It had been a bitter disappointment to
him that he could never get it “flowing”
like those beards that novelists invariably
put on elderly characters. His merely
blew about down around his knees.
Tearing joyfully around a corner on
half a wheel, he leant over.' His ziff got
mixed up in the cogs, and Grandpop
flew over the handle bars as the works
suddenly seized up. He wasn’t so much
mad at getting his tooth loosened as at
the good scooter-time he had to waste
while a mechanic took the machine to
pieces to disentangle his face-mat.
A few days later Grandpop’s beard was
mistaken by a workman for some cotton
waste, and he’d cleaned out a universal
joint with it before its owner was aware
it was being used for that purpose. An-
other morning he was awakened from
his usual 11 a.m. nap, which he now
had to take standing up, on hearing
sounds of heated argument near by. It
proved to be two storeboys playing poker
under his beard. Then a humorously-
minded foreman sent him on foot up
to the other end of the works to get a
gallon of sponge oil. The old boy won-
dered why he got so tired, until he found
141 b, of lead sewn into the end of his ziff.
But it was when he was just in time
to stop an upholsterer from hacking off
3ft. of his hirsute pride to stuff a seat
that he decided to roll his beard up into
one of those buns like your Aunt Hen-
rietta wears and park it under his brown
derby.
Then followed the incident that led to
my aged relative giving up the work. He
was passing the duco-spraying plant when
the manager came along showing a lady
visitor around. Ever a lad with the ladies.
Grandpop gave a skittish skip and gal-
lantly hoisted his derby. Being too busy
eyeing off her legs, he didn’t notice that
he was passing a drying machine. In a
trice his hat was whipped off by the blast
of air, and his ziff, tumbling down, was
blown against the sprayer. In five seconds
it was ducoed a deep maroon.
It is still that color. The family con-
siders it an improvement on its former
polychromatic state, result of a long-
established habit of dribbling tobacco
juice, tomato soup and burgoo down the
Ziff.
Bo.


THE OTHER FELLOW'S MIND
The contributor placed first is paid
4%d. per line ; all others 2%d. per line.
Clothing Reform
Let the temperature jump to 110 in
shade ; let the heat waves dance on the
r oof and the pavement blister the soles
0 f your feet —still the average Aussie will
wear his thick suit and hat, his starched
collar, even his waistcoat. Why? Con-
vention.
I have travelled pretty extensively
throughout Australia and have found
only one locality where a consistent effort
is made to dress according to tempera-
ture. In N.Q. shorts and shirt or slacks
and shirt represent conventional wear —
and they look smart, cool and comfort-
able.
In other parts police uniforms look as
though their wearers are meant to patrol
the North Pole ; railway guards, porters
and engine-drivers are cased in rigs that
make them look hot and grubby. Why
not a cool khaki for the railwaymen?
Clothes-rationing was a heaven-sent
chance for a needed change. But per-
haps our Governments didn’t consider
that point; possibly it never occurred
to them that a man coolly dressed is
likely to work harder, more enthusias-
tically, or that if they encouraged the
wearing of shirts and shorts or slacks
they would save millions of yards of
material otherwise used in the making
of coats and waistcoats.
My one hope now is that when our
Diggers return to the homeland they’ll
help to foster the wearing of cooler ap-
parel.—Avelona (Q.).
Rationing of Meat
Most of the people I meet are quite
unconcerned. They regard the rationing
as a fair enough thing, especially if it will
help the Allies to victory by conserving
their supplies.
I’m a carnivorous animal, and prob-
ably, normally, I eat too much meat. But
I have lived on boarding-house and
restaurant meals and survived. And if
anybody gets 21b. of meat in a week out
of restaurant and boarding-house meals
I’ll eat my hat. Special restaurants where
steak and eggs (if there are eggs) are
ordered may bring up the weight a bit,
but even here four or, at least, three
people would get their portions out of a
pound of steak.
Joints are so cut up that a pound
does 10 to 12 persons. Work it out
for yourself to find out how many pounds
of meat go to a week’s meals.
Rationing should check waste, but
there is no real privation in it, even for
the dog—there will still be some bones
and titbits for him. —H. M. (N.S.W.).
Food-growing for the Services
In parts of the Northern Terri-
tory army gardens provide appreciable
quantities of vegetables. At some
air force stations vegetables, pork and
eggs direct from unit gardens, piggeries
and poultry-runs feature on the menu,
in a few instances bees provide honey.
Extend this scheme. In suitable locali-
ties establish farms and gardens or
acquire these by lease or purchase
adjacent to army and air force camps.
Concentrate on vegetables, fruit, dairy
Products, eggs, poultry, pigs and fat
■ambs. Enlist the aid of agricultural col-
leges and their experts and instruct ser-
vice personnel in modern methods.
Thousands of youngsters came into
both army and air force with no previous
trade or calling. They will have to be
trained and found jobs when peace
returns. Authority already provides
technical education of various types.
Fhere is no reason why practical farm-
ing should not be included.
Men desirous of going on the land
after the war would be well on the way
to being skilled farmers when hostilities
cease, and there would be an immediate
increase in production of essential foods,
Which would be used on the spot and
not wasted. — Stanus (Vic.).
In the Granite Belt
We farmers of the N. S. Wales
'granite belt” need to absorb the quali-
ties of our soil to be able to stand the
& hocks of conditions which demand the
highest qualities of endurance. To the
Mem attacks of hail, gnawing insects,
blights and other agents has been added
the howling wind of Price Control,
which, blowing hot and cold, is effectually
eroding even our stout Castle of Rock.
We produced 20 tons of cabbages on
army contract; nine tons were taken, 11
tons are rotting and unpaid for, as they
cannot be sold elsewhere under the con-
tract, Further fields of cabbages will
probably rot in the ground, as maximum
but not minimum prices operate under
control. Hence —we’ve sworn off cab-
bages.
Fruit of all kinds is wilting under the
drying wind of high price control and
the withering sun of no minimum.
Although early-marketed fruit costs no
more than later crops to produce, con-
trol is blind to this aspect, or perhaps is
impotent in face of natural law. —•
A. C. M. (N.S.W.).
A Silly Regulation
Calls continue to be made by the Gov-
ernment for more waste paper and card-
board for use in munition packing and
making containers for foodstuffs, and
thousands of patriotic people in the
country collect every available scrap of
paper, pack it in bales, chaff bags and in
smaller containers and send it to the
nearest railway station.
But there is a regulation ordaining that
nothing less than a ton of waste paper
can be transported.
Therefore many hundreds of tons of
paper, etc., lie in hundreds of rail sheds
because each individual station has not a
complete ton weight collected. The
remedy is obvious. — Quitch (Q.).
“ Well —speak of the devil—look who's here!"
Lollipops and the War Effort .
When I joined the staff of a girls’
school two years ago it was increasingly
difficult to obtain any sort of sweets.
Finally the supplies for the junior school
tuckshop became non-existent.
There has always been much enthusi-
asm amongst parents, staff and children
for raising money regularly for charities,
their efforts being for the Children’s Hos-
pital, and also for Red Cross and other
war funds.
Mothers and staff found time to make
sweets and sell them to the children, the
proceeds going to the good causes.
This partly supplied khe lack, but within
ten minutes of the official opening of
small fetes the sweet stalls appear to have
been attacked by a plague of locusts. 1
mention this to show what a scope there
is for such an enterprise conducted by
schools. — Sally (S.A.).
To Discourage Strikes
Asa means of reducing the number of
stoppages in coalmines and abattoirs and
holdups in shipping, I would suggest that
half a dozen of the rank and file of the
unions involved be taken on a tour of
the battle areas in New Guinea and
allowed to live under active-service con-
ditions for at least a month. Pierre
(N.S.W.).
Free Rail Travel for Service Men
The service man is getting a raw deal in
the matter of rail travel. If a member of
the services wishes to travel to his home,
outside the time of his “recreation leave,”
he must pay his own fare.
Many of the R.A.A.F. are posted to
stations fairly close to their home towns,
thus enabling them to go home when
they get their long week-end once each
month. But they must pay their own
fares or stay on the station. There are
concession rates, but at about two-thirds
civilian rate. Service men would not
mind paying a maximum rate of ss.
return, but more than that is more than
a fair thing.— Airman (Q.)- ,
[An R.A.A.F. spokesman states that
R.A.A.F. personnel on long week-enu
leave are charged single fare for return
journey.]
A Soldier’s Thanks
There are some spots in Australia
remembered by soldiers with very kindly
thoughts. At the head of the list come
Kalgoorlie and Boulder (W.A.). How
generous are the people there to any
soldier who passes through, and how many
Comforts Fund parcels contain their
names! Next comes Quorn (S.Ad?
where no troop-train goes through with-
out a meal being handed out free by the
townspeople to every soldier.
The two warmest-hearted cities are
Adelaide and Perth; the former famous
in this war, as in the last, for its Cheei-
up Hut, and the latter out on its own
for downright friendliness.
Melbourne isn’t so bad when you think
what the people have to put up with in
the way of climate. Brisbane would be
all right if there weren’t so many troops
to cater for—it’s humanly impossible to
cater for them all up there.
Sydney? Every soldier whose home
isn’t there thinks of it with a shudder ;
with the exception of a few things like
the Anzac Buffet it’s the most money-
mad, grasping, selfish and cold-hearted
community in the Southern Hemisphere. —
Ess-Ex (A.1.F.).
Birth Control
The immense popularity of birth con-
trol with practically all classes is due to
the fact that in these modern times chil-
dren are brought up to be an economic
disadvantage to their parents.
The modern fashion is to give a child
the kind of education that makes him a
complete alien to his family. I know a
young man on whose education his dot-
ing parents spent £5000, which was com-
pletely wasted because he was a dismal
failure in the profession chosen for
him. But if he had succeeded he woyld
no doubt have got a wife and raised a
family with even more expensive tastes
and larger social ambitions.
There was no objection to the arrival
of another infant in an old-style peasant’s
or craftsman’s family, because it never
entered the father’s head that he should
curtail and starve himself to give his
child a university education which would
make him completely useless on the farm
or at the work bench and turn him into a
snob. The farmer or artisan imparted to
his child his traditional skill, and it sel-
dom occurred to the child not to follow
in his father’s footsteps.
China has (or had) the largest families,
and there some crafts have been handed
down from father to son since the days of
Confucius. Now they are starting to send
their sons and daughters to Harvard and
Oxford, so no doubt China will soon have
is falling-birthrate problem.
This attitude of the modern parent also
accounts for the dismal pictures which
are generally painted of the life of the
Australian farmer. Half the sons of
modern farmers seem to think they really
ought to be something vastly different,
and so they find no pleasure in farming.
—Bumpkin (Vic.).
“Mrs. G.C.” (B. 12/1 /’44) launches a
volley of the stock cliches of the birth-
control addict who believes in pleasure
without responsibility, disguised with a
veneer of pious thoughts. '
“Mrs. G.C.’s” principal pious thought is
“spacing the births.” No doubt there
will be more births (and, of course, more
self-control), but the refusal to use con-
traceptives need not necessarily mean a
rapid succession of children. Birth pre-
vention, to give it its proper name, means
only fewer or no births, and, of course,
self-control.
The reference to Hitler (who banned
contraceptives) means nothing; better
men than Hitler would like to do the
same, and it is typical of modern logic
that large families should be associated
with Fascism.
It seems a pity that progress should
be measured in terms of unborn children,
physical pleasure, soft comfort and fear
of responsibility ; and the future of man-
kind is not very bright when such a great
degree of our scientific resources is de-
voted not only to killing other men, but
to denying the right to life to succeeding
generations.
Finally, a word to those who want to
“give the little ones a chance.” No edu-
cation is so comprehensive as that of the
nursery, and parents who deny to their
child the possession of brothers and
sisters show themselves lacking in the
elementary decencies of parenthood. —
Oxus (S.A.).
Criticism Criticised
“Bahut Achchha’s” survey (B. 5/1/’44)
is unjust. His division of O.F.M. con-
tributions into “destructive” and “con-
structive” cannot be accepted.
Many scientific and political theories
now well established were built up
originally, not by a single statement or
treatise but by constant criticism and
probing into existing theories and beliefs.
Although it may be much more difficult
to create than to destroy, the discourage-
ment of criticism, whether destructive or
otherwise, is a reversion to an attitude
of mind which prevailed in the days of
the Inquisition and which today holds sway
in Nazi-overrun Europe. — Nairda (Vic.).
Simplify ’Em
Living has become so complicated that
it is time a crusade was started to reduce
it to simple factors. A commencement
could be made by doing away with deci-
mals in income-tax returns and traffic
licenses and fractions in industrial awards.
Apart from psychological reasons, why
not one basic tax? Anyway, let us make
a start by calculating to the nearest penny
only, and simplifying awards and cost-of-
living adjustments. The hundreds of
thousands of man-power hours so re-
leased could be put to something useful
and productive.
We don’t require any New Order. A
little refreshing fundamental honesty is
all that is wanted to usher in the “brave
new world.” —D. C. (W.A.).
Wanted—More Australian Writing
Magazines published in Australia,
especially those catering for women, are
showing an increasing preference for
short stories by overseas writers, who
write against backgrounds which mean
tittle to an Aussie reader. Is there a
shortage of Australian writers or isn’t there
any literary talent in Australia? Most
radio plays also are imported material.
The Australian Amateur Hour, a radio
broadcast, is different. Listeners should
be treated to more short-story broadcasts,
for shortage of imported magazines and
increased difficulty of contacting libraries
have deprived country folk especially of
much of the mental relaxation formerly
afforded by reading. The American plan
iof broadcasting short stories should be
popular here.
We want to see and hear the work of
Australians. — Bolac (Vic.).
Soil Erosion Education
Since it is agreed that the inability of
the people to realise the seriousness of the
situation is* one of the worst features of
the soil-erosion menace, I suggest that
A.E.S. should include in its curriculum a
course in soil erosion—its causes, effects,
prevention and cure. Something brief,
prepared by men with practical experience
and presented in non-technical language.
The State Departments of Agriculture
should also make an attempt to educate
their officers in this matter, for present
and future needs. Foresight now might
save Australia millions in the future. —
N.G.K. (Tas.).
Telephone Rentals
Why not encourage post-war use of
the telephone by reduction in rental
charges on a sliding scale, according to
the number of years a subscriber has
been connected, with, say, a minimum
of 10s. a year?
In Launceston (Tas.) some years ago
it was announced that as the number of
subscribers had now reached a certain
figure the rental would be raised. (You
could now ’phone more people, it was
explained.) In England, where they do
things differently, the P.M.G. told Lon-
doners that when they reached their mil-
lionth subscriber the rental would be
reduced, and straightway the department
was besieged with applications from
would-be subscribers. —Michael (Tas.).


TZra
s ,
/
yVV's
S }. ,
y-y
~.*r
2.6-
Yt-'y y' , sy.
p'
yyy> ,/ .
5# Mfs
r'P
Epitaph hy Radio:
66 T „
1 am
closing up
to the enemy
"Out of the line of defenceless freighters
swung a grey-painted, solid-looking ship
the old Aberdeen and Commonwealth
liner Jervis Bay, now fitted as an auxiliary
cruiser, but with only six 6-inch guns and
no armour plating over her old ribs. On
the bridge stood lanky Irishman, Captain
Fogarty Fegen, knowing full well that he
was taking his ship and his crew into almost
certain death, but hoping that he could
delay the warship sufficiently to enable the
convoy to win clear. He sent his last radio
message as he swung into action. 'I am
closing up to the enemy.’ ”
So, George H. Johnson in his book,
"Grey Gladiator”, tells the story of the
sinking of the Jervis Bay by a German
raider.
Captain Fogarty Fegen’s last message
must go down in history. A fitting epitaph
for a gallant captain and a gallant ship.
A story of bravery for all time. Given
to the world by radio.
* * * * «
Australian Industry has shown the tvorld we can
produce equipment for our own defence . . . aero-
planes, ships, guns and radio. But it is radio that
welds them into one. Radio that makes the tempo
of this war. We owe much to the great Australian
enterprise which made ' possible the building of all
such equipment in Australia.
And what we have to-day we hold. In producing
such equipment in Australia, we need never fear
of being cut off from our sources of supply.
Amalgamated Wireless (A/sia) Ltd.
