

GRAPE VINEGAR
The Bulletin
“The Bulletin/’
VoL Ss.~—No. 3356
Wednesday, June 7, 1944
Price 6d.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaoer.
Seppelts
KIRKSTALL ABBEY.
GAUNT MEMORIAL TO THE WHITE MONKS.
NEAR Leeds, in the valley of the Aire River, stands this great
gaunt ruin of Kirkstall Abbey. Begrimed nowadays by the
smoke from the great woollen manufactories hereabouts Kirkstall
rises amid mown green lawns and well-tended flower beds, and is
one of the Yorkshire city’s most treasured possessions. This Abbey
was founded probably in the year 1155 by Henry de Lacy, Lord
of Pontefract, and grandson of Ilbert de Lacy, who had come to
England with William the Conqueror, and who had received vast
estates in Yorkshire.
The ruins of Kirkstall Abbey are perhaps more perfect than those
of any other Abbey in the county, with the possible exception of
Fountains, which this closely resembles. The chief remains here
to be found are the Chapter tLousg* ths beautiful church with its
collapsed Perpendicular Tower and the abbot’s lodgings, which
form a splendid example of early thirteenth-century domestic
architecture. A number of interesting relics are still preserved m
the old gatehouse.
Kirkstall was among England’s most important Cistercian houses,
which also include those at Rievaulx and Fountains in Yorkshire
and Tintern in Monmouthshire. It was from Fountains that twelve
monks and ten lay brothers under the abbot Alexander were sent
to build Kirkstall in fulfilment of a vow Henry de Lacy had made
that, if he recovered from an illness, he.would establish a Cistercian
monastery. And so today stand these ruins, a memorial to the
industry of the White Monks who built a House that endures
through the ages.


fds
This Book FREE to YOU!
STOTTS CORRESPONDENCE COLLEGE.
100 Russell Street, Melbourne.
Please send, without obligation, your New Free
Booklet, explaining how to Write jor Profit, as
advertised in the Sydney “Bulletin."’
My Name
My Address
S.B. 244
AGE
The Red Page
ELDERS OF THE TRIBE .
When, near the end of his life, W. B.
Yeats declared himself to be a “wild,
wicked old man,” his father’s ghost must
have jumped on the coals for joy ; for all
his life J. B. Yeats was constantly exhort-
ing the poet to cultivate “wickedness” in
his life and in his art.
Had you stayed with me and not left
me for Lady Gregory, and her friends and
associations, you would have loved and
adored concrete life, for which, as I know,
you have a real affection. What would have
resulted? Realistic and poetical plays—
poetry in closest and most intimate union
with the positive realities and complexities
of life.
And that is the world that waits, so far
in vain, its poet. I have always hoped and
do still hope that your wife may do for
you what I would have done.
Not the idea but the game of life should
have been your preoccupation, as it was
Shakspeare’s and the old English writers’,
notably the kinglike Fielding.
Poetry, Yeats the elder insisted, must
be “popular”: not in the cheap sense of
the term, but in the broad and noble
sense iij which Shakspeare and Fielding
are popular. The writer must take his
material direct from life, without
apology, without prejudice, without the
belittling puritanism of the reformer. He
believed that W. B. Yeats was capable
of apprehending the great comedy and
re-creating it in his art:
Never are you happier and never more
felicitous in words than when in your con-
versation you describe life and comment on
it. But when you write poetry you as it
were put on your dress coat and shut
yourself in and forget what is vulgar to a
man in a dress coat.
Probably you will have a long life, in
which there will be many revolutions and
epochs. It is my belief that some day you
will write a play of real life in which
poetry will be the inspiration, as propa-
ganda is of Bernard Shaw’s plays.
As far as W. B. Yeats’s plays went
the prophecy never came true. They
never got down to life, and consequently
never quite reached hell and heaven.
But, as Joseph Hone points out in a foot-
note to one of the father’s letters, the
poet did strike reality in his later ballads,
which he hoped would be sung in
taverns. Like his shiftless and tolerant
parent, “the best conversationalist in New
York” —a prodigal father always on the
brink of painting a masterpiece and con-
tinually borrowing money from his son
to keep him going until his luck turned —
W. B. Yeats did become a “wild, wicked
old man” in the end. And that is why he
is a great poet.
This creed of “wickedness” —which
really is the creed of the love of life —is
the theme not only of J. B. Yeats: Letters
to his Son W. B. Yeats, and Others
(Faber) but of John Cowper Powys’s
series of essays The Art of Growing Old
(Cape ; Angus and Robertson). Both are
rebels against the puritan orthodoxy of
the age which, disguised in a score of
masks from the New Order to Surrealism,
seeks to belittle life and to fetter the arts.
Says Powys, what does the ordinary man
really want in the years to come? :
He wants to enjoy himself now. And
when we come to the nature of the enjoy-
ment he wants now, it is not to possess
the proud puritanical satisfaction of feel-
ing that everyone is being compelled to
have the same austere proletarian taste
for proletarian art, proletarian drama, pro-
letarian dancing, proletarian furniture and
proletarian philosophy.
What does he want then? He wants a
thousand overtones of the feeling of rising
above all levels! He wants overtones of
variety, overtones of exciting differences,
overtones of fancies, whims, caprices,
peculiarities, hobbies, cults, manias, speciali-
sations, eccentricities, stunts!
Says J. B. Yeats: —•
It seems to me that one of the foolishest
ideas is people’s habit of constantly look-
ing for a complete man, a kind of non-
sense handed down from Goethe. What
we want is incomplete men. I like all
qualities to be in excess, or rather that each
person should be a specialist. Complete,
well-governed men have their value, no
doubt; they make good clerks, look well
after routine, etc.
Powys, of course, with his bizarre
personality and his frenzied worship of
Nature, is just the sort of specialist Yeats
had in mind: a fanatical pantheist who
can emerge from his entranced con-
templation of sticks and stones and mud
to advise elderly people to go to Rabe-
lais for spiritual comfort. A nature-
lover first —a specialist; and then a lover
of all life. And a strange man, an oddity,
a man of “excess.” His recipe-in-chief
for happiness in old age is to read some
difficult work, preferably in a foreign
tongue.
By brooding over memories—distilling
the essence of experience—-and by laying
the mind open to those intimations of
immortality which come in “sideways,”
he says, from the natural world, old
age is able to practise a technique of
enjoyment.
Enjoyment of this particular kind, a
mixture of pleasure and inspiration, can
be extracted from literature as well as
from the contemplation of nature or the
past: but only from a particular kind
of literature.
Now it is clear that in the perusal of
an exciting story, of whose plot and cmi-
clusion we are totally ignorant, the mind
is fully occupied. It is I fancy very rare—
indeed almost impossible—for these para-
disic moments of purged memory to inter-
rupt the reading of a “detective” or “mys-
tery” story.
Old age wants something quite dif-
ferent from this. It wants to “loaf and
invite its soul”; it wants to expatiate and
brood and ponder; it wants to indulge in
happy wandering thoughts. Above all it
craves and demands in its reading .a very
special and peculiar, sensation —the sensa-
tion of life’s continuity.
Rabelais, Powys suggests. Shakspeare ;
Burton’s Anatomy of Melancholy; Mil-
ton’s poems and Sir Thomas Browne’s
prose ; Tristram Shandy, Lamb, Keats ;
Scott, Jane Austen and Dickens. Even
these English classics—though Burton
should be thorny enough for the most
pernickety of ancients—are not quite
difficult enough for him, Homer is
the man; so that old age may learn
with Odysseus that life is “a song
for the men to come.” And Homer is
to be read in the original Greek
by a reader who has never learned
the language; “I am certain that he will
not get the subtler and rarer advantages
of his leisure until he habitually turns the
pages of that unique epitome cf human
civilisation, Liddell and Scott’s Greek
Lexicon! ”
At a time when the Freudian view of
life, or at least Jung’s modification of it,
is almost universally accepted, so that the
love of nature is understood as a yearning
for the Great Mother, a sublimation of
the sex urge, Powys submits a seemingly
fantastic theory that a man taking a walk
in the country is not “loving” nature but
“eating” it. Nonsense? It seems so at
first glance. But he goes back with the
Freudians to the image of the suckling
infant and points out that the child is
concerned not with love but with food.
At a time when science is generally
considered the hope of the world, he sees
the scientist as man’s enemy: not only
because science dehumanises humanity,
but because, setting up its mathematical
Absolute, it degrades the universe.
At a time when most critics preach
that the writer has a duty—always a
reformist one —to his own times, Powys,
finding something to approve in a writer
of whom Yeats consistently disapproves,
quotes Goethe to the effect that he was
tied to his own age not by his strength
but by his weakness.
At a time when “wicked old men” are
still being blamed for causing wars, pov-
erty and the rest of the troubles of man-
kind, he points out that- the present
conflict has been caused chiefly by the
wicked young men of Germany and
Japan.
At a time when the pink young men
of the democracies are planning their
post-war paradises, Powys turns to an old
Englishman and an old Chinaman for a
discussion of what man really wants in
the years to come: “He does not want
to go on toiling day and night, with
devoted assiduity, at ‘piece-time’ pay in
peace-time, in order that the next genera-
tion, or the generation after the next,
shall have time to enjoy itself.” The
ordinary man, he submits, “wants to have
his own money in his pocket Ao spend
in his own way.”
There is something irresistibly comic in
the spectacle of these valiant ancients
outraging the orthodoxies of the age and
trying to convince earnest-minded youth
of its right to gaiety. But it is not the
ancients who are ludicrous.
Powys is not likely to be popular
in his mysticism of the country-
side. This age lives in a flat. For
every reader of The Glastonbury
Romance the strangest and perhaps
the most profound of contemporary
novels—there are a hundred for cheaper
and easier works; and probably ten
readers for more obviously difficult
works, such as James Joyce’s, Pound’s
and Eliot’s, for this book, too, “comes
in sideways.”
He is not likely to be popular—
at least with the intellectuals; he
writes on the margin of contem-
porary life, but he does not write
nonsense: “Yes, the truth is that unless
old men possess some deep interior life
of their own they are almost bound to
hang like millstones round the necks of
their children and their children’s chil-
dren.”
J. B. Yeats writes such profound good
sense that one would like to quote his
book in its entirety. If it were not for
the fact that such a pleasing self-portrait
emerges from the letters, extracts from
them might well have been printed as a
book of aphorisms, of the first import-
ance to contemporary criticism.
On painting:—■
1 make a distinction between artists who
bring with them what I call full minds,
and those who have empty minds; the latter
take naturally to art schools, but the others
keep away from art schools. Ingres seems
to me head and chief of those who have
empty minds —great artist though he was;
Turner and Hogarth belong to the other
, category, and, I should say, Monet. All
modern artists, or almost all, are studio
bred.
A practical purpose runs through all
Hogarth’s pictures—but his artistic sense
forces him to paint his harlots of a tender
grace and his men, however wicked, still
human, as if he would persuade Justice
to break her sword.
On poetry:
I would call oversensitiveness, too high
an ideal of execution, etc., mere indolence.
It is much easier to polish and perfect
work which one has already done and in
which one is already fully interested than
to go on to fresh enterprises.
Ideas in poetry must never be expressed,
they can only be implied.
It is quite possible to be lyrical and not
poetical—to be a poet it is necessary first
of all to be a man.
Swinburne’s roots strike nowhere, he
grows in light soil He was a starved
personality—nothing came from him but
miracles, beautiful flowers of technique.
On the American “wisecrack”:
In America people talk either to say or
to listen to memorable things—but there
is no atmosphere. When artist's who are
congenial to each other meet, they don’t
say memorable things, neither do husband
and wife when they love each other.
On the theatre:
I have read two volumes of Bernard
Shaw. How naturally and inevitably he
rises out of Irish Evangelical life (not Bel-
fast). The Protestant sauve qui pent
trying for religion and finding it in social-
ism ; also he is still the evangelical superior
person.
Theatrical audiences are bent on amuse-
ment. There is something about the
theatre, something inevitable when people
come together in holiday mood and in
crowds, which makes deductive purpose
and moral effort an irrelevancy and
ridiculous. That is why English writers
approach the theatre shorn of half their
strength—and that is why we, the mere
Irish, having escaped Puritanism, and so
bent on making pleasure a serious con-
cern, succeed where they fail and write the
plays. At the theatre moral purpose is a
stranger and unwelcome, and love which
cares nothing for moral distinctions finds
itself at home. There is a lot of love
in Bernard Shaw, notwithstanding bis long
residence in England, and his own conscious
efforts to strangle it, and that is the part
of his plays which we like and we remem-
ber ; unmoral love which is always whisper-
ing its doubts as to the Ten Command-
ments, and as to rules and laws generally.
On literature in general:
My complaint is that literature has gone
over to the side of the schoolmaster and
that it used to be carried on by the boys
themselves.
On life in general:
We love people because of their faults.
Uplifting thins the blood.
A magnificently wicked old man! And
the style has an undeniable purity and
sweetness. This is not always the case ;
the letters are casually enough written,
and some, particularly the early ones,
were hardly worth printing. But there
are always the flashes of brilliance: a
style like W. B. Yeats’s, only warmer,
Powys, of course, has few graces of
style. That is another reason why he
has never been widely accepted as a
champion of the unorthodox. Sometimes
powerful and always—because of rather
than in spite of its faults —impressive,
his writing is a maze of difficulty. With
its strings of hyphens, its weird, pseudo-
scientific terminology, its exclamation
marks and its italics, it is like a great rub-
bish dump: there’s treasure in it for the
searcher, but there’s a devil of a lot of
junk and rusty barbed wire. In fact, it’s
near enough to the ideal of “a difficult
work in a foreign language” to be emi-
nently suitable reading for old age.
SUNDRY SHOWS.
“C.R.”: At an exhibition of musical
instruments sponsored by the National
Theatre movement at Velasquez Galleries,
Melbourne, the city has coughed up an
amazing collection of noise boxes, from
a dittal harp circa 1770 to a modern
electric console, from panpipes from New
Guinea to two Tibetan oboes. Other
oddities are a musical chair which dis-
courses harmony when it is sat on and
costumes worn by that elegant musical
instrument Nellie Melba in “Romeo and
Juliet” and “Othello”—she couldn’t have
got into them in her later years. A lot
of the exhibits come from the Percy
Grainger Museum, the somewhat odd-
looking building which one of Australia’s
most unusual artists presented to the
University of Melbourne. They include
examples of the wavelike musical nota-
tion which he believes will be the medium
of the composer of the future.
Sydney Tiv.’s “Hi-de-Hi” hardly comes
up to its title, being rather fair-to-
middling-de-fair-to-middling. The Weate
Brothers, though their incidental clown-
ing is half-hearted, make engagingly
abominable noises on saxophone and
squeeze-box; Paulino, “the upside-down
man,” performs some heroic feats upside
down ; a youngster named Kevin Hartis,
who might have had a voice if it hadn’t
been tinned in a microphone, sings feel-
ingly about his mother ; and Rob Murray,
a young juggler, spins an attractive array
of kitchen utensils on the point of his
chin. Jenny Howard is as usual. The
sketches are inclined to be poorish and
pointless, though George Wallace is
always good company, and—the trustees
of the N. S. Wales Art Gallery didn't
realise what they were doing—gets the
laugh of the evening when he contorts
himself into something resembling the
Archibald Prize portrait.
At the talkies:
There is a John Buchanesque flavor about
“The Adventures of Tartu” (Sydney St. James),
a tale of a British Army captain sent to do
sabotage in Rumania. Tension and excitement
are topped with a first-rate climax, the interior
of a gigantic chemical factory is one of the
most striking sets yet seen on the screen, and
Robert Donat puts plenty of virility into his
work as the resourceful agent.
“One Foot in Heaven” (Tatler) should have
had a less fluffy title. It is a penetrating study
of the struggle of an ill-paid Methodist parson
to raise a family in a Mid-West town, of his
broadening views and his fight against a clique.
Fredric March excels himself in a difficult
role, and Martha Scott is very human as his
frankly critical and patient wife.
A vegetarian hound is a model of virile
strength compared with the alleged plot of
“Hello, Beautiful” (Plaza). George Murphy
tries to do his best with the thing, but he no
sooner ceases talking at 300 w.p.m. than Benny
Goodman and his band come on. That
settles it.
In “By Candlelight” Siegfried Geyer
juggles his characters skilfully throughout
a comedy of Viennese society based on
the transposed identities of a socialisti-
cally-minded aristo and his conserva-
tively-inclined valet. The success of
ney Metropolitan Players’ production at
the Maccabean Hall was due largely to
a vivacious performance by Carlotta Kal-
mar in the role of a flirtatious maid.
Alathea Siddons, Alfred Race and Charles
Tasman were smoothly efficient in the
other chief parts ; Bruce Beeby as the
valet could have been less stilted. May
Hollinworth produced.
“Curtain Raiser” on poetry and lauda-
num :
“Song Out of Sorrow,” by Felix Doherty,
put on by the Therry Society at the National
Theatre, Melbourne, is an extraordinarily stark
historical description of the life of the poet
Francis Thompson. The poet is encountered
staggering into the slum apartments of Flossie
and her paramour, the drunken Bill, and col-
lapsing from the joint effects of laudanum
addiction and starvation. A sanguinary quarrel
develops between the jealous Bill and Flossie
until it is made clear that Thompson hasn’t
taken a fancy to the lady but is in love with
poetry, which reduces Bill to incredulous
laughter. Scenes follow in which the poet sinks
down and down under the laudanum while his
poems go to and fro between one newspaper
office and another. Flossie goes to jail for buying
a suit of stolen clothes which she intended to
present to her semi-naked poet, and black night
begins to descend on the doomed household,
in which Bill is pawning the poet’s effects and
sharing the proceeds between gin for himself
and opium for his companion. However,
Wilfred Meynell, the magazine editor, has be-
latedly read a poem of Thompson’s and recog-
nised the potential genius of the author. He
comes along expecting a rising young writer
and finds a drug-sodden wreck doomed to die
within three months. The final curtain falls
with the poet’s making a resolution to undergo
treatment. Sincerely written, the play shows
quite clearly that Thompson had two forms
of expression—poetry and laudanum —and his
life story was the struggle between them.
Professional playwrights seldom write plays like
this and professional actors seldom know how
to play them, but the cast of amateurs seemed
to have an admirable understanding in the
present instance. There wasn’t a false note in
the Cockney characterisation of the genius-
worshipping Flossie by Kathleen Salmon and
the besotted obtuseness of the Bill of Vincent
Jolley. John Power painted the horrors of
the poet’s dilemma with genuine feeling, and
if Bernard Lamble was somewhat pompous as
the editor of a literary monthly—well, editors
of literary monthlies are often like that.
“C. 8.”: Reversing the established
order, Colin Hunt has brought a show
of oils from Castlemaine to Kozminsky’s,
Melbourne. He casts a sharp eye on the
local landscape.
From Angus and Robertson, Ltd.: —
Contributions are invited for the 1944 Coast
to Coast. Writers should submit no more than
two or three recently written stories; work
already published in newspapers or magazines
may be submitted. Stories should be addressed
to the Editor, Coast to Coast 1944, C/o Angus
and Robertson, Ltd., 89 Castlereagh Street,
Sydney. None will be accepted after July 31.


'TRUTH IN ADVERTISING”
/ rPi r/
111//. -■
l//_^=
&
'//\
i
£•
/r-
-7 \
>
FOR THE MECHANIC
Greases, fats, oils, as well as other dirt,
will be entirely removed and all bacteria
killed. Unlike most germicides, the
pleasant fragrance of tea-tree oil used in
Palace Antiseptic Liquid Soap vanishes
so quickly that any article of personal
use may be used immediately and will
be completely disinfected too. •
(V 4-'
4 YT)r
FOR THE HOUSEWIFE
This soap is of great value to the
housewife in her general duties. It
•does not affect woollens or delicate
fabrics. Its fragrance and lather
will delight you. It perfectly deodor-
ises all garments and destroys all
germs. Cleanses perfectly all crock-
ery, cutlery, etc. Its fragrance van-
ishes immediately and no odour re-
mains about the utensils. For this
reason it may be used safely in
cafes, milk bars, etc. It is also a
protection against mouth infections.
CHEMISTRY DEPARTMENT-
GROUND FLOOR
//
CVCySu*
TSTSt-
PALACE
ANTISEPTIC
liquid
SOAP
K'- *
The ideal general cleaner made up from the
finest and purest ingredients. A non-poison-
ous deodorant and non-irritating cleanser.
Free from caustics and has a superior emul-
sifying and absorbing quality.
PALACE LIQUID SOAP incorporates the most
powerful disinfectant oil, distilled from
selected leaf of the finest species of Aus-
tralian Tea-Tree. Its antiseptic, germicidal
and healing properties are unsurpassable.
Sizes: 2J gallons, 21/-, 5-gallon drums, 37/6.
"THE SENIOR STORE”
W
i
0
US
n
-
K
Xs
s:
VS
V
FOR THE NURSE
k Invaluable to the nurse for cleaning hospital
floors, lockers, uniforms and personal
articles. As articles used in hospitals have
t to be sterile, Palace Antiseptic Soap comes
to the fore because of the germ-killing
properties it possesses.
__ If
■a,-r,p
- 3§Jf
fiZp'r**’*.*?® v'-ftf/•
»j
x~
*?> I
tfii
M 4
V
KS
/^jJO
\
IllßWiMrt
FOR THE DOCTOR OR DENTIST
In the Surgery, all instruments, uniforms and towels
must be kept sterile. Palace Antiseptic Soap is the
germicide for this purpose. Its powerful antiseptic
properties are superior to other disinfectants. Used
as a mouth wtash in dental surgeries it has healing
and purifying properties.
FOR THE FARMER
In the great out-of-doors, farmers find
this antiseptic liquid soap invalu-
able. Animals must be treated with
a disinfectant and germicide when
they have diseases or sores, and so
this soap will kill all bacteria and
germs that are in the infections. Milk
cans and dairy sheds can be
cleaned and kept fresh and sweet
with this soap.
WHEN IN TOWN, LEAVE YOUR
PRESCRIPTIONS WITH OUR
PHARMACY DEPARTMENT.
WHERE THEY WILL BE
ACCURATELY AND EFFICIENTLY
DISPENSED.
ANTHONY HORDERNS'
'Phone: M 2401 (Day and Night)
FAMOUS LOW PRICES
Telegraphic Address; Hordernia, Sydney
Box 2712 C, G.P.0., Sydney


Families Are “Screwy”
By MARGARET TRIST.
“ r\ RE you going to have a
j A shave?” asked Mrs. Robinson.
I \ Mr. Robinson, who had been
reclining on the back-verandah
bunk, pleasantly debating whether he’d
go to sleep or stay awake, and praying
that sleep would overtake him before he
made his decision, sat upright, scatter-
ing the assorted newspaper sheets that
had been protecting him from the flies.
“What! On a Sunday?” he demanded,
his thin, stubble-covered face aggrieved.
“It’s this way,” replied his wife care-
fully ; “Dorry’s got a boy-friend and
she’s bringing him to tea.”
“The devil she is! ” cried Dorry’s
father. “And who said she could?”
‘ I did,” said Mrs. Robinson firmly,
thrusting her plump hands deep into her
apron pockets. “ ‘Dorry, my girl,’ I told
her, ‘we’re not the kind of family who
entertains its friends under lamp-posts or
at the front gate. We’re respectable.
You bring that boy of yours in to tea
tonight or you’ll know what’s what.’ ”
“She’s only seventeen.”
“What age was I when you married me?”
“That was different.”
“Not a bit. Dorry’s a woman grown
just as I was.”
“Do they have to grow so fast?” com-
plained Mr. Robinson.
“Apparently they do,” sighed his wife.
“Now boys are different”
“Are they? You’ve got no idea the
things young George has been up to,
though it won’t be his sixteenth birthday
till March.”
“George has always been bright,” said
George’s father admiringly.
“Well, he’d better stop being bright
till he earns some money of his own,”
snapped Mrs. Robinson. “Are you going
to have that shave or aren’t you?”
Mr. Robinson rubbed his two-day-old
growth gently. “I don’t see” he began.
“You look awful nice when you’ve just
had a shave,” cajoled his wife, “Not that
I mind for myself, but Dorry’s our only
girl, and we’ve got to do our best by her,”
“Seems to me she can do her best for
herself.”
“Well, that’s fixed,” said Mrs. Robinson
brightly. “I knew you’d be reasonable.
That’s one thing I know about you,
George. I can always depend on you.”
She bustled away.
Her husband turned amongst his
papers and gloomily surveyed the back-
yard, It was generously drowned in
somnolent Sunday-afternoon sunshine.
Children’s cries echoing from other back-
yards sounded unreal and far away. A
choko vine sprawled luxuriantly along
the straggling paling fence. “It’s a wonder
she didn’t want me to cut the blooming
lawn as well,” he muttered resentfully,
and allowed himself to be suddenly,
overpoweringly, taken in sleep.
’T HE sunshine threw a golden net over
1 them as they lay side by side on the
beach, watching each other sideways, un-
wayeringly, the intentness of their glances
giving them each the appearance of leer-
ing lopsidedly. •
“Gee, Denis, you’re awful sweet,”
“Do you like me, huh?”
“Uh-huh.” I
“Gosh, Dorry”
Dorry pouted. “Doriana,” she amended. •
“Do your folks call you Doriana?” he
asked.
“Oh, you know what folks are,” she
sighed.
The conversation petered out. Denis
threw his arm across her sun-warmed
shoulders and she wriggled a little closer
on the sand. They dozed, woke again
and transmitted messages from the
corners of their eyes. Bathers stepped
over them and swarmed about them un-
heeded. Thq breakers curled seductively up
the firm, wet sand at the edge of the beach.
“Another swim?” asked Denis.
Dorry stretched herself and yawned.
They both laughed and, snuggling closer,
dropped asleep. The warmth had gone
from the sun when they awoke. People
were busy dressing children and packing
baskets and hurrying to catch the over-
crowded trams that clanged and clat-
tered up the hill. “Oh, Lordy,” cried
Dorry and sprang up, brushing away the
dry sand that clung to her firm-fleshed
arms and legs. She clambered into a
pair of shorts.
“What’s the hurry?” demanded Denis.
j Ve to 8* a lettuce for tea.”
I don’t eat lettuce.”
You will when my- mother finishes
with you.”
«<X° u re ma kl n g me scared.”
Oh, there’s no need to be scared,”
replied Dorry, without conviction.
K/ RS. ROBINSON took off her apron
1 v and surveyed the dining-room
approvingly. It smelt cheerfully of floor
polish, and at the open window the cur-
tains moved lazily in the late-afternoon
breeze. In the middle of the room the
table was carefully set for five. She gave
the forks a final polish with her apron,
picked up a couple of petals that had
fallen from the vase of full-blown roses
on the centrepiece, and crushed them in
her hand. She started as she heard the
front-door key turn and footsteps sound
in the passageway.
“I say. Mum” It was only young
George.
“Here, George.”
“Are you eating in here?” demanded
George, appearing in the doorway; a
tall, thin youth with an unsteady Adam’s.
apple in his long neck and hair wind-
blown from his afternoon’s cycling,
“We are,” answered his mother. “And
you look sharp and get yourself clean.”
“Oh, I’m not stopping. I want a hand-
ful of food to take down the beach”——
“You’re not getting it. You’re going
to sit down and eat your tea respectable.”
“What for?” demanded George.
“For Doris’s sake. She’s bringing her
young man home to tea.”
George’s mouth fell open. “Which
one?” he asked.
“There’s no need to be smart.”
“Look here, Mum, there’s some chaps
waiting for me at the corner. You’re not
spoiling a bloke’s Sunday night because
Dorry’s tricked some goof into follow-
ing her around. Hasn’t he got a home
of his own?”
“He’s in the Besides”
“Well, aren’t there canteens?”
“Don’t try me too far, George,” warned
his mother.
“Can I go?”
“No, you cannot.”
“I’ll just slip out and tell tha fellows”
“You’ll do no such thing. Hurry along
and spruce yourself up.”
“Oh, all right. But I’m only stopping till
tea’s over. I could do y/ith a meal now I
come to think of it. Is Grandma coming?”
“No, she’s not.”
“Oh, I say! She’ll be upset at missing it.”
“Let her be,” said Mrs. Robinson
grimly. “My heavens! There’s the gate.
How do I look, Georgie?”
George looked puzzled. “No different
than usual,” he said.
Mrs, Robinson composed her face into
a smile, stuck the apron behind a cushion
and charged forward into the hall;
George, a head taller than his mother,
following curiously in the rear. The
front door opened,
“Mother dear,” called Dorry mincingly.
It took Mrs. Robinson by surprise.
“My Gawd,” muttered George.
Dorry, smiling politely, came towards
them in the narrow, dusky hall. She kissed
her mother affectionately.
“Dear,” she said, “I want you to meet
Denis. Denis, this is my mother.”
“Pleased to meet you, Mrs. Robinson.”
“I’m glad to know you, my boy.”
“Denis, this is my brother George,
where are you going?”
“George,” called Mrs. Robinson*warn-
ingly.
“It’s all right,” came George’s voice.
“I’ll be back for the food. I’ve just
stepped outside for a breath of air.”
THE light had been switched on now.
The curtains, quiet by the window,
shut out the night. The five of them ate
constrainedly at the white-covered table.
The roses shed petals with easy abandon.
George watched Denis covertly, “I
don’t like that cove,” he thought. “Takes
all the taste out of the food.”
Mr. Robinson attempted conversation,
but was hampered by lack of direction.
What should he say to this young man?
Did he want him as a son-in-law or not?
Dorry and Denis looked at one another
soulfully over the table.
“Dorry dear, eat up your pie,” com-
manded Mrs. Robinson. “She’s a dread-
ful girl, Denis. Doesn’t eat enough to
keep a fly alive.”
“Eat it, Doriana,” commanded Denis,
George guffawed and flew from the
table with his hand over his ffiouth.
“Poor George, a sensitive throat,” said
Mrs. Robinson to cover this lamentable
breach. “Takes after our family, George
does. They all have the same bother. It
comes of having earls in the family is
what I say,” she finished modestly.
“Earls,” repeated Denis, so hypnotised
by Doris’s fluttering eyelashes that he
could only catch a significant word here
and there in the conversation and repeat
it foolishly.
“Earls,” said Mrs. Robinson firmly.
“Of course, it was a long way back. My
grandfather’s uncle came out here a long
time ago. A remittance man, you know.
He sent home for my grandfather, who
came out with his young bride. They had
thirteen sons. The funny thing was that
none of them was any good. Only poor
old Clive, and he drank himself to death
in Alice Springs.” Mrs. Robinson
frowned, inadvertently off her track.
George returned, looking subdued.“ Are
you all right, George?” his mother asked.
“Sure,” said George. “Couldn’t be
better.”
The doorbell rang with appalling
suddenness.
The Robinson family looked at one
another. Denis sidled lettuce to the side
of his plate. The bell rang again.
“I’ll go,” said George.
“It’S her,” muttered Mrs. Robinson hol-
lowly.
“If it’s Grandma,” said Dorry, coming
to life, “I’ll cut my throat.”
“But I didn’t ask her, dear”
“Why wasn’t she asked?” thundered
Mr. Robinson. “She’s my mother. Why
wasn’t she asked?”'
“George, you must admit she’s a little
peculiar.”
“I admit no such thing,” cried Mr.
Robinson haughtily.
GEORGE, junior, appeared in the door-
way. “It’s Gramma,” he said sheep-
ishly.
“Well,” remarked Grandma, appearing
behind him, “I knew there was something
doing here, I haven’t heard a word from
any of you for days. If you want some-
thing you’re round in a shot. But if it’s the
other way Who’s the young man?”
“This is Denis, a friend of Doris’s,”
replied Mrs. Robinson.
“Friend, h’m,” retorted Grandma.
“Have something to eat,
offered Mr. Robinson.
“If there’s a cup of tea going I’ll have it.”
“I’U get it,” Mrs. Robinson rose. “You
sit here and I’ll get it.”
“I won’t sit there,” said Grandma ; “I’ll
sit there near the young man. George,
get me one of the kitchen chairs. And
if you’re getting me tea”—she nodded at
Mrs. Robinson —“get me some meat, too,
and fry me a couple of eggs to heat it up
a bit. I don’t like ,my food cold. That’s
what’s wrong with the world at the
present time —it’s eating its food cold.
Don’t ypu agree with me, young man?”
Denis nodded dumbly.
Grandma cackled. “See!” she ex-
claimed triumphantly,
“Here, have this chair, Gramma, and
I’ll get another,” said George, junior.
“I won’t have that chair,” replied
Grandma, kicking it out of the way. “Get
me one out of the kitchen. A good firm
chair with a straight back. Now, young
man, tell me, are you going to marry my
granddaughter?”
“Oh, Grandma,” protested Doris.
Denis muttered valiantly.
“Well, I’m sorry for you if you are,
that’s all I’ve got to say,” said Grandma
decidedly and, George having brought
the chair, sat down and removed her
shoes. “Ah,” she murmured with obvious
satisfaction.
Mrs. Robinson came in, bearing a plate.
“How’s that?” she asked.
“It will do,” acquiesced Mrs. Robinson,
senior. She turned again to Denis. “Have
you any idea of the difficulties the civilian
population have in getting beer?”
Denis raised his hands deprecatingly.
““Stand for horns outside the pubs,’’
she told him, “and then you don’t get
it unless you’re a regular customer. Of
course, it’s all right for me. They know
me. They’ve known me for years. ‘lt’s
all right, Ma,’ they say; ‘we’ve got yours
on ice.’ It’s eleven o’clock up the top
here, and two o’clock at the Junction,
and five o’clock opposite the station.
You want anything, let me know.” She
winked roundly at Denis. “I don’t hold
with men standing in queues, do you?
They look awful silly, standing in queues
with women, don’t you think?”
Denis appeared to be pondering the
question. Doris rubbed her shoe along the
calf of his leg and looked at him eloquently.
He forgot everything but the overpower-
ing loveliness of her small round face and
the inviting softness of her mouth. Grand-
ma turned from him in disgust. There
were few people one could talk to nowa-
days about the overwhelming problems of
life, least of all young men. The war
seemed to have softened them. All they
could do was gape at young women.
“If you and Denis are finished”
began Mrs. Robinson.
Doris rose abruptly. “I’ll show Denis
the back garden.”
Denis pushed away his unfinished
sweets. Mr. Robinson stood up. “I’ll
show him’ that bed of carrots”-
“George, you sit where you are and talk
to your mother,” commanded his wife.
Outside, the air was cool and sweet,
the choko vine dark against the fence ;
the smell of earth rose from where the
man next door watered his garden, the
water falling soft and silver, soothingly
through the air. Doris wound her arms
round Denis’s neck.
“I’ve got a terribly screwy family,” she
sighed.
“Yes,” muttered Denis, “but who hasn’t
got a screwy family?”
The moon, full and yellow, rose in the
summer sky. They stared at it as at some
unaccountable phenomenon that some-
how explained their unaccountable selves.
Train Journey.
Scenery can fire the mind like music;
It has the ardors and the languors,
The shapes, the precisions and the bluntness,
The movement and the pause. Like music,
Even the long symphony to the ear,
The longest journey is but a flash to the eye,
A beginning, a middle and an end.
After is memory,
A water gleam, a gold dapple, or the blue thrust
Of a peak, grass-wave and herds of eucalypt;
These perhaps more indelible than the faces
Of fellow travellers,
Their thin talk, their thick silences.
N.S.W.
BRIAN VREPONT.
Tram Through the Parklands.
This spectre in the lighted pane
Is not less real than my firm flesh
Whose eyes stare back into eyes again
Here in the noisy tram. Where is
The soul and body’s synthesis?
Am I the light that shines and spills
Back from my eyes and temples here,
Or that thin Shape through which the hills
Are outlined, and the ghostly forms
Of gum-trees wave their supple arms?
Without the light I could not see
Body or image. No longer bound
By time, place, self, the soul set free
Might find the elusive truths which lurk
Out there in the eternal dark.
To each his individual ghost:
Through the fat man in spectacles
There shines an arrogant telephone-post
Solid, assertive. I can see
The post is quite as real as he.
And so side by side
In the little lighted tram, this life, *
Content in the human warmth we ride:
But one by one we leave the light
And drop off into the dark night.
S.A.
NANCY CATO.
The Last Rebel.
Storm not my sieged identity,
I’ll be my own man, lose or win;
One rebel node of reference in
The matrix of infinity.
Time has calcined a million creeds—
Give me my own opinion yet.
And stubborn simpleness, to set
The touchstone, thought, against men’s
deeds.
My heart’s a haggard, tameless still
To hold one crag inviolate
Against the City, and the State—
The Termitarium’s eyeless will.
The sands of centuries are grey
With blowing cities, burned of time.
Older than stars they rose sublime —
Where are they now, and what are they?
Mine is a wiser god than these:
Blind, witless Beauty, who redeems
Our darkness with her singing streams,
Her marching, moon-illuded seas
That murmur “Drive to your desire,
Fierce, tameless wing, unhooded eye.
And set your blazon on the sky
And burn the wind with flags of fire.”
S.A.
J. HOLLOWAY.
Summer's End.
I.
After the summer season, with the miraculous
Cleansing of waters the first wave of winter
Sweeps in a flood the sun-hats and the surf-
boards,
The spotted scarves and the sunshades striped
like candy,
Hie children screaming at the water’s edge with
the seagulls
And the indolent sleepers on the sand —
Carries them in with a curl and a crash to the
tramline.
To the dignified bus like a rock to rebuff the
confusion
And the foam and splash of departure.
Then from the roadway
The wave recedes with a sigh that hushes the
houses
Where the flies settle in shuttered rooms and the
cat, abandoned.
Sleeks and prowls in the ivy.
And only at evening
Walks on the beach in the moonlight the lonely
mermaid
Who married a mortal; who weeps at the edge
of the water
Where the sand is like knives to her feet.
11.
Gum-leaves and blackberries burnt on the fire
with an autumn
Savor of sadness. Smoke was bitter, contesting
With the crossed blades of sunlight parting the
pine-trees,
Detecting an ambush. Tongues of flame like
slander
Blackened the billy, bubbling with anger.
Down in the gully
I was a child again, sailing
Twig boats on the rapids where a trickle of
water
Foamed brown and golden over the rock-ledge,
While the tadpoles (years and years ago) slipped
through my fingers
And maidenhair and mosses, resentfully,
Took down my footprints .. .
Dreaming by the fire I called myself, watching
For a child to run back through Time to a
picnic.
N.S.W.
ROSEMARY DOBSON.


The Bulletin
Vol. 65—No. 3356.
Wednesday, June 7, 1944.
DECLARED “BLACK.”
“Odd's bodikin, Master Shakspeare, the scurvy knaves refuse to play with the skull of a non-unionist."


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper
“Australia for the White Man”
Directors:
H. K. Prior J. E. Webb
P. H. Prior David Adams
HEAD OFFICE: 252 George Street. Sydney;
Box 252IBB; ’Phone 87971.
Victoria: Newspaper House, 247-249 Collins
Street, Melbourne.
Queensland: 239 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
Westralia: 33 Barrack Street, Perth.
New Zealand : Nathan s Buildings ippp.
G.P.0.), Wellington.
London : 1 Hare Place, 47 Fleet Street,
London, E.C.4.
SCIENCE AND CHIN-MUSIC.
Sydney has had not only an Assembly
election, but, simultaneously, a confer-
ence of Government directors, University
professors, doctors, members of the
Teachers’ Federation executive (whose
Left Wing tried to involve the teachers in
a boycott of the University’s W.E.A. for
failure to grovel to Stalinism) and the
like. “Organised by the go-ahead Aus-
tralian Association of Scientific Workers,’’
as the Communist “Tribune” annpunced,
and with the “the Arts and Science Com-
mittee of the Australian Communist
party” represented by invitation, the
show was held in the Conservatorium of
Music. Americans were among those
present, and they must have been aston-
ished at some of the chin-music they
heard, although they were no doubt too
polite to say so.
One of the bright particular stars was
Dr. Coombs, M.A., Ph.D. (Econ.), Direc-
tor-General of Post-war Reconstruction.
As usual. Dr. Coombs was full of en-
thusiasm for spending other people's
money, according to plans and specifi-
cations roughed out by himself and other
non-elected persons, theoretical “experts,”
in Government jobs. His contribution
may be described as a rhapsody on the
theme WE.
We will have done less than half our
task if, having trained and found jobs for
ex-service men and women and war-workers,
we do not create an environment for them
fit and proper to return to.
We believe that it will be necessary,to
spend much more money in Australia on
scientific research in industry than in
countries where industry is more firmly
established.
No industry is as antiquated as the build-
ing industry. Here we have the chance to
bring about a revolution. It will take us
two years to catch up on the housing
shortage, despite the fact that we are
planning a building programme twice as
big as in the best pre-war years.
When the word R-r-r-revolution
r-r-rolled from the Dir-r-rector-Gen-
er-r-ral’s mouth “Central Committee
member Ernie Campbell,” one of the
delegates from “the Arts and Science
Committee of the Australian Communist
party,” must have been a prey to deep
emotion. But the blessed word was nothing
to other parts of the performance, which
were so exhilarating for Comrade Ernie
that it is. a wonder he restrained himself
from rising and calling for three hearty
Russian cheers.
Comrade Ernie himself gave a flute
solo on “the Communist ideal for Aus-
tralia,” which, in the latest edition, is
that “there should be no bad times” and
no profits. A lecturer from a tech-
nical college (“Sid Conway” to the
“Tribune”) held forth on the need
for scientific education of industrial
managements “so that bluff and bluster
could be replaced by scientific plan-
ning.” The voice of Comrade Hal-
dane, the well-advertised Communist
professor and director of the “Daily
Worker” (suspended for two years by a
Labor Minister for its cowardly-sur-
render “policy” during the blitz), was
heard in a broadcast on his favorite
subject, Russian supremacy in everything.
Comrade Haldane’s message was open to
the interpretation that we poor damned
Australians can’t really expect to be like
Russians but should be as like them as
we’re able to be. A Mr. Trail, from Vic-
toria, and a Mr. Hibbard, from N. S.
Wales, both holding high rank among the
Scientific Workers, got their names into
the “Tribune” by demonstrating, albeit
confusingly when taken together, what
a benighted lot we English-speaking
people are:
The proportion of the national income
spent on scientific research in Australia is
somewhere near 1.5 parts per 1000, as com-
pared with 1 for Great Britain, 3.6 for the
United States and 8.10 for the Soviet
Union. — Mr. Trail.
In 1943 an estimate of the expenditure
on science expressed in terms of national
income was: Great Britain, 0.1 p.c.;
United States, 0.3 p.c.; Soviet Union, 1 p.c.
— Mr. Hibbard.
Above all, a certain Dr. Dark de-
manded the socialisation of medicine,
in the process giving unsolicited and un-
realisable advice to fellow-doctors in
the Commonwealth (“the medical profes-
sion in Australia should see that social
services, unemployed-relief, invalid and
old-age pensions and child endowment
are sufficient to ensure full health to all
needing them”), and attacking, very
foully, “the medical profession in
Britain.”
Dr. Dark was described in the “Daily
Telegraph,” which reported him at some
length, and whose report has not been
repudiated, as “a well-known writer on
medical and social problems.” Perhaps
he is, but he was unknown to the general
public beyond the country district in
which he practises until, as a delegate
to the Labor organisation in the Treas-
urer’s electorate, he fathered a resolution
“to be forwarded to the Prime Minister
at Canberra and to the Soviet Ambassa-
dor.” 1 In this resolution —an immediate
sequel to Commonwealth Labor’s election
victory adopted in the presence and hear-
ing of Mr. Chifley and State Labor
Ministers Kelly and Knight—the Com-
monwealth Parliament was urged
•
to make it clear to Mr. Churchill that
the people of Australia feel themselves in-
volved in the disgrace that the British
Cabinet has incurred through its failure to
fulfil the promise, first made in 1942, since
then twice repeated, to take action that
will relieve the intolerable burden borne
by the Russians. We [the Macquarie
A.L.P. Assembly] regard this failure as
bringing unnecessary suffering and death,
not only to the Russians but to the people
of all democracies and to all those in
occupied countries who are still heroically
struggling against the Fascists.
Parallels to this outbreak of non-com-
batant belligerence and insolence could
be found, but only in Communist publi-
cations. “We,” of course, did not men-
tion that the Cabinet indicted for retain-
ing control of its strategy and sparing its
country’s blood had conducted the war
against the Germans and'their allies for
four terrible years, during 15 months of
which period its nation stood, alone,
except for such help as Dominions and
colonies and soon-defeated Greeks and
Yugoslavs could give, or that it
had for one-and-twenty months con-
ducted the war against the Japanese, with
whom the Russians have had a neutrality
pact and fisheries agreements since April,
1941.
Seemingly the only use Dr. Dark had
for British lads when he produced his pre-
cious resolution was as cannon fodder, to
be sacrificed in vast numbers by the Gov-
ernment that gave the alleged “promise”
(which no British Government would or
could give), yielding to non-combatant
and Canberra coercion. At the confer-
ence of Scientific Workers, however,
according to the unrepudiated “Tele-
graph” report, he appeared as a passion-
ate champion of the British workers, his
heart bleeding for them and their fami-
lies, victims of a policy that would have
staggered Scrooge:
Dr. Dark said that had the medical pro-
fession in Britain spoken courageously and
plainly to the British Government before
the imposition of the means test in 1932
200,000 deaths due to resultant poverty
would have been prevented.
It is not on record that any Scientific
Worker objected to this sweeping and
deadly insult. Nobody protested that to
bring such a charge without attempting
to prove it —if it were capable of being
proved—against a country renowned for
humanity, of which no class has a mono-
poly, was just slinging muck. Nobody
pointed out that, alike in peace and war,
Britain has led the world in caring for
those of its people who need care,
that it has great national-health, un-
employed-insurance and widows’-and-
orphans’ - pensions schemes, which
were maintained throughout the depres-
sion years (in 1934 alone £30,400,000
was paid in national-health benefits,
£23,000,000 in pensions to widows and
orphans and £44,055,000 in unemployed-
insurance benefits, besides £43,000,000
spent on war pensions, £19,000,000 on
old-age pensions and £47,226,000 on poor
relief), or that its medical .profession has
an unsurpassed tradition of service. Nor
did anyone challenge Dr, Dark by quot-
ing British death statistics for 1932 and
subsequent years. Yet they could have
been dredged in a few minutes from any
of half a dozen standard publications,
and the mere reading of them would have
demolished his outrageous Left-Wing
slander.
These figures are from the Statesmans
Year-Book : —
Numbers of Deaths in Great Britain.
England and
Wales. Scotland.
1931 .. .. 491,630 64,229
.1932 .. .. 484,129 66,045
1933 .. .. 496.465 64,848
1934 .. .. 476,810 63,741
1935 .. .. 477,401 65,331
1936 .. .; 495,764 66,749
1937 .. .. 509,560 68,942
1938 .. .. 478,927 62,952
Actually there were more deaths in
a pre-depression year, 1929, 532,492 in
England and Wales and 70,917 in Scot-
land, than in any subsequent peace year.
And with births reckoned in, as they have
to be to get at the real position, death-
rates in some years decreased.
Deathrates per Thousand of Population.
England and
Wales. Scotland.
1931 .. .. 12.3 13.3
1932 .. .. 12.0 13.5
1933 .. .. 12.3 13.2
1934 .. .. 11.8 12.9
1935 ... .. 11.7 13.2
1936 .. .. 12.1 13.4
1937 .. .. 12.4 13.9
1938 .. .. 11.6 12.6
The Scottish figures for 1937 and 1938
are taken from the “Daily Mail” Year-
Book. It should be added that the popu-
lation of Scotland is much less than one-
eighth of the population of England and
Wales.
If there are any more conferences of
Scientific Workers arrangements should
be made to prevent their degenerating
into cheap and nasty Left-Wing shows.
Certainly Dr. Dark should never again
have a speaking part. If he chooses to
go on feeding his grudge against Britain,
let him do it in the obscurity from which
he should never have emerged.
From Jitters to Joy.
This heading needs the addition “And
Vice Versa.” It then makes a complete
record of the reactions of home-front
sensation-peddling newspapers to all the
Allied fighting through the North African
campaign and on to the present battling
in Italy. It runs to a theme song of
alternate howls of dismay and whoops of
exaggerated delight.
At different times in the North African
fighting—according to how the quill
warriors considered the campaign was
going—the quality of the British forces
was freely questioned. A widely published
magazine article by a British Left-Wing
peer entitled “What’s Wrong with the
British Army?” was accepted as the sig-
nal that the season was open for whining
and mud-slinging. It was suggested that
British officers should be sent to Russia
to learn their job, or, better still, that
all the Allied forces in Africa —nine-
tenths British, of course—should be put
under Russian leaders. And Marshal
Timoshenko (to Sydney enthusiasts “the
greatest general that ever lived,” as the
Red International Militia in Spain, an
armed mob, was “the greatest fighting
force the world has even seen”) was to be
placed in control of the invasion of
Europe from the west.
Alamein opened with the gloom thicker
than, a London fog. When it soon turned
out that the effete British and their
Blimpish leaders were every bit as good
as ever, the former gloom boys led the
chorus of premature joy. All through to
Tripoli and the end of the Axis nn Africa
it was great fighting and a grand victory,
but that wasn’t enough. Voices broke
out of the chorus claiming that it would
all be over by Christmas, 1943.
It wasn’t, and gloom had set in heavily
again before the fighters moved off for
Sicily. Then the lines on the fever chart
shot up to new peaks of wild optimism.
With the move into Italy hysteria set in.
Next Came the now-familiar aftermath of
depression; such headlines as “Is the
Italian Campaign a Flop?”; yet another
inky onslaught on the leaders, and on the
fighting men as well.
There was a brief revival of the chorus
when the landing was made at Anzio,
Then, once more, the chilly blasts. Why
did wd land on a shallow plain surrounded
by lofty ground which an energetic enemy
could render almost invincible to attack?
Why, at Cassino, did we drive forward
into a corrugated alternation of heights
and valleys, every point of which was
suitable for defence and difficult to storm?
Why was the attack at Cassino made
with such limited superiority of force?
Why did the Allies wait three or four
weeks before switching troops from the
static Eighth Army front to assist at
Cassino?
Wept one of the tribe; “There seems
to have been a definite lack of boldness,
a failure to observe the primary military
principle of concentration of effort and
a lack of flexibility.” The last word
caught on. Another moaned: “There is
complaint that some of our captains and
majors are inadequate and that in the
higher command there is some lack of
flexibility in the use of composite combat
teams. Both charges are apparently
true.”
The tune changing with the beginning
in due course of the strategy that General
Alexander had planned all along, the
chorus went into ecstasies over the per-
formance of the composite combat teams
—the French, the Poles and others. But
before this happy turn the whines con-
tinued loud and long. “Failure of the
third Cassino offensive, following the
stalemate at Anzio beachhead, is provok-
ing widespread criticism of the Italian
campaign.” Apologists joined in to
thicken the gloom. These plumbed the
depths of blackness intensified:' —
The German soldier still remains per-
haps the best individual fighting man on
earth, because it is his profession and be-
cause peace-time has merely been one long
training period for him. He has among his-
weapons many unequalled by the Allies.
There is no field gun in Italy which has
the range of the German 170 —about 18
miles. There is no single weapon as com-
pact as the Nebelwerfer, which our boys
call “Screaming Meenie” and which weighs
less than 18001 b. and has the fire-power
of six nine-ton heavy field howitzers. The
German anti-tank gun has a far greater
muzzle velocity than any of ours. The
Sherman tank at its thickest part is about
equal in armor to the thinnest portions
of the Mark VI. There is no light auto-
matic weapon in the same class as the
Nazi machine pistol.
Add to all this the homogeneity of the
German Army, compared with the oppos-
ing mixture of American, British, French,
Canadian, Polish, Indian, New Zealand
and whatnot, and the reader was in a
position to draw his own conclusions as
to “how tough a job faces the United
Nations,” lacking “flexibility.”
What men like Alexander think of this
sort of stuff would make good reading.
Perhaps they find the outpourings of the
quill warriors a relaxation. They make
their own plans silently, and when they are
ready they put the plans into operation.
As this has been done from Alamein on to
the latest offensive it has demonstrated
that the maligned British leaders and
other Allied leaders, their men and their
weapons are at any rate good enough to
be winning. The truth about them is that
the fighting in Italy has been “slow” not
because of their lack of ability and
quality but in comparison with the expec-
tations of the ink brigade.
Since the latest offensive in Italy
opened the Allied communiques have
been exactly what such things should be
—clear and, for all practical purposes,
complete. So —for once, at least—have
the enemy communiques. Anyone putting
these side by side could form a suffi-
ciently complete idea of the general com-
bat. To the confusion of the home-
fronter they have been snowed under
with a welter of speculative invention.
Thus, at the beginning of last week the
sensation headlines had “100,000 Ger-
mans facing disaster in the Liri Valley.”
Next day the “direct escape route for
13 German divisions south of Rome” had
bent “cut.” A day later the number was
down to seven German divisions.
Allied communiques made no such
claims ; but so it goes on. 'Then when
the prisoners—plentiful by a sober
reckoning—fail to come up to these
speculative inventions it is always pos-
sible to shift the blame by asking ques-
tions about the Allied leaders and their
troops. At one stage, before the present
offensive began, the morale of the troops
■was questioned. There was comparatively
little publicity for the sheer superior
fighting quality which made possible the
taking and holding of the Anzio area —
another, but a better, Anzac, as it turns
out—and the storming of such a formid-
able stronghold as Cassino.
At one time in the fighting at Anzio
172 men —a “British thin red line”—held
off at least two enemy battalions along a
front of 1800 yards. In another quarter
there the headquarter troops of a Guards
battalion —that is, clerks, batmen, cooks
and supply-column drivers held the
tough “Buono Riposo” ridge for 18 hours,
with the fighting so close that in the raw
air before dawn the Germans trying to
dislodge them were picked off from the
vapor made by their breathing. Neither
of these batches of British troops was of
first-line fighters—the other lot was part
of a reconnaissance unit. But their per-
formances, with what has happened since
the planned fighting started, show the
worth of the previous questioning of
morale.
Just now, of course, the quill warriors
have their tails up, but it may be ques-
tioned whether this is not when their
splurges need most careful watching.
They are liable to build up hopes which
may turn out to have been false. Then
it will be back to the jitters at the first
sign of a reverse or what looks like one.
What it all amounts to is a fierce war of
nerves, waged—all unconsciously—by the
quill brigade against their own home
fronts. If the sackings for alleged mis-
takes that they advocate so freely from
time to time for military leaders were
applied to their own blunders of exag-
geration—both of gloom and of rosy
speculation—their ranks would be deci-
mated once a month.


PLAIN ENGLISH
Votes, Tucker and Strikes.
With Labor in office, elections these days
follow' a pattern. They’re immediately
preceded by grants or promises of grants
of extra tucker, beer, tobacco, napkins
and so forth, and are immediately fol-
lowed by cuts, as N. S. Wales has found
in. respect of milk and butter. And, a
week after polling-day in N. S. Wales,
with new ration-books being introduced,
Sydney housewives encountered a meat
shortage.'
Usually, too, elections are followed by
more strikes. A shameful waterfront
hold-up of ships, some carrying supplies
for service men, as well as meat-workers’,
moulders’, ironworkers’ and storemen-
packers’ stoppages, hit Sydney as soon
as the election was over, and when the
butter cut was announced —2oz. off the
weekly ration of Boz. —the coalies seized
upon it as a pretext for another out-
break of strikes, though with 6oz. they
will be getting three times as much as
British workers have had for a very long
time.
Mr. Forde, stung by a B.M.A. state-
ment that food cuts were reaching danger
point, announced that the butter reduc-
tion was made necessary by a bad season
and a production shrinkage. Both were
evident many weeks before the N.S.W.
election, but nothing was said until
McKell Labor was safe.
Mr. Scully denied a charge by Mr.
Fadden that conditions on the food front
were “in a state of absolute chaos.”
Denial of obvious facts is about all Mr.
Scully’s Government seems capable^of
in regard to food. There is a thumping
big Food Control, drawing thumping
salaries and spending thumping sums on
fatuous advertisements directed *at harried
housewives, but about as useful as a bull
in a china shop. Messrs. Forde and
Scully should be grateful indeed that the
patience of Australians is standing the
strain so well.
,As for N.S.W. coalminers, their “no
(! )-butter-no-work” cry comes at a time
when the Second Front for which they
have clamored so long is about to be
launched, and when war industries, are
facing coal-rationing—Victoria has had
to cut its rail services heavily. Their
latest of a hundred excuses for striking
sets one more smudge on an infamous
record. Yesterday the “Government”
was imploring its trade-union masters to
do something about it, its hundredth
appeal to the coalminers to hew coal
having been rejected like the other 99.
Yallourn as a Test.
Victorian State politicians have always
pointed to Yallourn, the “model” towns-
ship at the State brown coalmine,
as a perfect example of State social-
ism in being, though they would walk
to Darwin rather than live there them-
selves. The cat was let out of the bag
when Judge Stretton, in his report on the
bushfires that put the mine out of com-
mission and nearly wiped out the town-
ship, remarked that the Yalloumite “has
everything the heart of man could desire
—except freedom and independence.”
Meetings of the socialised followed,
and criticisms were bitter. The Yal-
lournites said they lived in houses they
didn’t own and couldn’t alter if they
didn’t like the houses (and who could
like a departmentally-designed villa?);
they shopped in community shops be-
cause they had no option; they had
hospitals, medical, maternity and other
social services and recreation grounds
and so forth, and yet they were not con-
tent. Because, as they put it, every human
being likes to express his individuality in
some way, and you can’t express it in
Yallourn because everything is done for
you by the Commission.
Premier Dunstan lent a sympathetic ear
and promised some form of self-govern-
ment and private ownership, to be de-
cided on, no doubt, after the usual com-
mittee inquiry. There is less enthusiasm
for his proposals than might have been
expected. Some residents have lived so
long in handout community cottages that
they haven’t the wherewithal to buy a
hearth and home of their own. They
fear that a millstone will be hung around
their necks, as with other State house-
acquirement schemes. They know that
bureaucracies are as full of expedients as
a monkey is of fleas, and don’t give up
power any more willingly than dictators.
The conditions under the new dispen-
sation might be such that the “free”
would be more securely attached to the
omnipotent Commission than the social-
ised are now. At least they can leave
the place if they don’t like it.
The way Yallourn is handled may well
provide a textbook case for what is likely
to happen all over Australia under Post-
war Reconstruction.
One Man's Work.
John Brennan meets the man:
Service ’planes don’t cause nearly as much
excitement out through the Never-Never as
does a little single-engined Percival Gull
that maintains a one-man mail service to The
Granites and Tanami, up to Wyndham and
back through Argyle and Wave Hill and Vic-
toria River Downs and the stations on the way
to Katherine. To most of the station people
it’s the finest thing in the North.
It’s run by Eddie Connellan, a young man
(he’s 32) with large ideas and infectious en-
thusiasm. Born at Balranald, N.S.W., member
of a family of graziers, he went to Xavier, Mel-
bourne, taught maths, and science at Swan Hill
High School, studied engineering at Melbourne
Uni. for a couple of years and was in a radio,
business. He learned to fly in 1934.
Connellan had long wanted to take up country
in the Territory, and, Air Minister Fairbairn en-
couraging him, he undertook a pastoral survey
of the North from the air. (His report was
handed to the Commonwealth Government and
it was suggested that his expenses should be re-
funded—in vain.) In 1938, when Minister-of-
the-Interior McEwen took a party on a trip
round the Territory, Connellan was still wander-
ing there. McEwen suggested a mail service
and Connellan agreed to give it a try.
In July, ’39, he began a service from Alice
Springs, calling at five stations on the way to
Wyndham. Beforehand he had to go out by
truck with a few men and little equipment to
clear and grade his landing fields. For a be-
ginning he wasn’t allowed to carry passengers
because tlie country over which he had to fly
was considered unsafe for single-engined
’planes. Station people objected to the ban,
and soon Connellan was carrying two passen-
gers every trip and all kinds of freight.
He had no radio, no weather reports. He
did practically all the flying himself, and still
does. Four of the men he had helping him
in the beginning left to join the R.A.A.F.; three,
Connellan’s younger brother among them, have
been killed. The fourth, Sam Calder, is still
in England; he has the D.F.C.
The service grew. Today Connellan makes
39 stops on a four-day trip—27oo miles—
round the North once every fortnight. He
carries anything and everything, from day-old
chicks to children going to and from school.
There are three or four telegrams to his home
in Alice Springs every day —“Bring a dozen
torch batteries”; “Try get shifting spanner ;
“Want needles sewing-machine number four.
He’s a messenger boy for thousands of outback
Australians.
Connellan’s ’plane takes the only fresh meat
and vegetables they can get to the miners at
The Granites. When he introduced this par-
ticular service every person in the area was
suffering from Barcoo rot. Now they say
there isn’t a case of Barcoo in the area. There
are 12 young children at various places along
his route. He allows them a dozen oranges each
every fortnight. They come by rail from
Adelaide and freight charges are high.
A larger aircraft is his greatest need, the
small payload of his present job his biggest
problem. The two original Percival Gulls are
still carrying on, ohe always undergoing over-
haul. Connellan can never carry more than 25
p.c. of his urgent loading from “Alice.” The
payload is 3501 b., but picking something up
there, putting it down here, taking on some-
thing else he averages 5001 b. of mail and 15001 b.
mixed freight and passengers each trip. There
was nothing in it for the pioneer till his mail
subsidy was increased a year ago; now he s
holding his own. After the war he intends
to seek extensions of the service and introduce
a twin-engined ’plane; he had a larger single-
engined aircraft on option from the U.S., but
couldn’t obtain an import license and the
R A.A.F. afterwards took it over. There’s a
chance, the Air Force finished with it, he’ll get
that shortly. , „ ~
Connellan is building a home for his wife
and planting a citrus orchard just outside The
Alice. His service has been largely responsib
for introducing seven young married couples as
station workers. They’re a new WS? llan
Territory, and a very useful type.
thinks that if a system of air communications
is developed there will be more.
On field maintenance and on repairs he ms
nine men. One, an engineer, a license and
can fly the one-day run south of The Alice out
to Hermannsburg and down to Mt. Irwin. Con-
nellan still flies the Wyndham run once a fort-
night, and he’s on call always under a contract
with the Flying Doctor service. So far he s
made 106 flights to pick up patients.
A Sydney Don Quixote.
“Tuart”: Having once had a hand in
forming a party that never came to any-
thing, I feel for the founder of the Liberal
Democrats.
My party was formed in a newspaper
office in which I was trying to run a Sun-
day rag, the object being to get me a
seat in Parliament on which, unknown to
me, the ruddy Scot who paid my small
salary had his eye —by a base intrigue
with the crowd I was up against, he got
it. The L.D.P., clubmen aver, had its
origin at a settling-day lunch, the lunchers
being the owners of two Sydney Cup
winners who agreed on the proposition
that the U.A.P. was up to mud and that
Something Would Have to Be Done
About It, preferably by them. But you
know what clubmen are!
The owner of one of the Sydney Cup
winners pulled out early in the piece. The
other, made of sterner stuff, went ahead
and gave the child of his lunchtime fan-
tasy a local habitation and a name, a pro-
gramme and an organisation, even (see
pamphlets) a philosophy. With no Par-
liamentary ambitions himself, he had the
knack of inspiring them in others. A
•rather astonishing number of Lib. Dems.
nominated for the Commonwealth elec-
tion. Among them were returned soldiers
of both wars —promising material it
seemed. Unfortunately all lost, and there
was a dismal proportion of forfeited de-
posit.
Still undaunted, the Founding Father
began to prepare for the State election.
The U.A.P. made overtures to him, being
in one of those periodical moods in which
it goes through the motions of reforming
itself and changing its label. The nego-
tiations ended abruptly, the t only result
being that the U.A.P. became the Demo-
cratic party —in effect, pinching half the
L.D.P.’s name.
With a grim face the owner of the
Sydney Cup winner redoubled his exer-
tions. He breathed new life into the
organisation and philosophy. In print
((Continued on page 8.)
REUNION.
“At the I.L.O. conference Mr. Beasley received his only support from the representatives of Latin-American republics."
“Jolly glad to see you, Beasley, old boy.”
“Gracias, Senor Juan.”


4
3 3
m
A-**-
4mm
d
yes: tk^
Had everything
while he lived
.... but he had failed to have
his life assured as a precaution
against an untimely death. Do
not leave YOUR family without
ample protection. Arrange now •
for an assurance policy.
EQUITABLE PROBATE
AND GENERAL INSURANCE CO UP A
Hiad Office : 371-373 Queen St., Brisbane
Wingello House, Angel Place, Sydney.
Collins House, Collins Street, Melbourne.
It. V. I’iiUKIAS, General Manager.
The MERCURY Siin. LATHE
SoleN.Z. Disl. Agents!
A. M. S atterthwaite
- & Co. Ltd.
Hereford St., Christchurcb
THE little GIANT
of the Lathe World”
AVAILABLE FOR CASH or EASY TERMS
Manufactured by .
MARS Machine Tool
1 Manufacturing Co. Pty.ltd.
BRIDGE STREET. VALLEY. BRISBANE.
oi Victoria:
Thomas Herbert & Co. Pty., Ltd., 38 Market St., Melbourne.
Sole N.S. W. Dist. Agents; •
Thos. Herbert & Co. Pty. LtdV
139 Clarence Street, Sydney
v fM
iLcivt
II FINE HOTEL
A hotel. certainly one of Sydney’s
leading Hotels, different to
every other in many things. The
Wentworth, for instance, has ever
been noted for its quiet, restful
atmosphere. Another thing, too.
while away from the noise and
hustle, you are nevertheless con-
veniently situated to everywhere.
Service and cuisine are unexcelled.
THE WENTWORTH I
ut
:neu
’Phone RW 1361 (10 lines)
C. D. Maclurcan, Managing Director
and over the air (he has no mean talent
for radio speaking) he toiled like three
men in the Cause. In his monologues the
people were urged to hasten and witness
the dissolution of the old discredited
parties, to greet the dawn of a new politi-
cal day breaking out of a murky sky and
to salute the flag of freedom flying
proudly in the breeze. And so on.
Again the devoted man gathered rather
an astonishing number of candidates
about him. Again they were all defeated,
and again some of them lost their de-
posits. But their patron and leader vows
that, so far from being discouraged, he
will launch a campaign for the 1946 Com-
monwealth election straightway.
It may be necessary beforehand to
arrange for a special issue of Victoria
Crosses; and the first should go to him-
self..
POLITICAL POINTS
At the beginning of the week 10 of the
74 contests for N.S.W. Assembly seats
were still in doubt. What were loosely
described as “service” votes favored
Labor members, but not in all cases;
and a large percentage was informal.
Most of those counted came from N. S.
Wales. The franchise was extended to
members of the forces under 21 (both
sexes) who “have served or are serving
in the South-west Pacific area outside
Australia.”
Lang lives in his electorate, Auburn,
and McKell in his electorate, Redfern.
In the Auburn subdivisions (two) Lang
polled 7252 votes and the McKell man
3563 ; in the Redfern subdivisions (two)
McKell’s score was 3916 and the Lang
man’s 2819. When he scanned the figures
the Big Fellow’s grim visage softened into
a smile,
A golden shower of carrots has de-
scended on the citizens of Melbourne.
That vegetable has been smitten by Food
Controllers into producing such a bumper
crop that the public has been offered
81b. for a shilling and 1121 b. for 18s.,
delivered at the back door. Accompany-
ing this good news was a departmental
expert’s recipe for carrot jam which in-
cluded 61b. of sugar and seven large
oranges. Sugar is rationed, and oranges,
if procurable, are threepence each. How
like a Government department!
A.B.C.’s favorite Russian-war reporter
is Paul Winterton, of the London “Daily
Chronicle.” Events in Russia or the
lack of them reduced Paul to silence for
what must have been a trying month, but
Churchill’s championship of non-inter-
vention in Spain and his account of the
war-time fruits thereof gave the young
gentleman a chance to break out again:
In the light of Mr. Churchill’s speech,
it is easy to understand why the Russians
are sometimes still suspicious of us. To
them, British policy too often lacks con-
sistency.
Priceless, considering Russian policy
towards Germany, Japan, Poland and the
Baltic States. The “policy” of Left-Wing
writers and radio spouters is admittedly
a model of consistency. Its guiding prin-
ciple is Russia Is Always Right, and its
characteristic attitude is an inexpressibly
abject crawl.
Reviewing the Lang group’s remarkable
showing, the “Century” says “Candidates
were hurriedly selected and candidates
put into the field days only before the
actual election” —which is true. True it
is also of the metropolitan polling that
“every sitting member in ah industrial
centre found himself fighting for his
political existence”: after 27 years Burke
(Newtown) was unseated and McKell’s
majority was heavily reduced in Red-
fern ; so were the majorities of Clyne
(King), McGirr (Bankstown), Shannon
(Phillip), Gorman (Annandale) and Stan-
ley (Lakemba). In Miller’s Point, Ultimo
and Pyrmont, subdivisions in Beasley’s
electorate of West Sydney, Foley led
Clyne, and 5466 votes counted in Glebe,
Beasley’s stronghold, placed Shannon only
58 to the good.
It is just as well for some of
the returned-unopposed N.S.W. Labor
Ministers and members that the leader to
whom they were so servile when he was
boss hadn’t more time (and funds) for
organisation and choice of candidates. On
Newtown, Redfern, King, Annandale,
Bankstown and Phillip figures Lazzarini,
at least, could have been shaken in
Marrickville.
Says Dr, Edith Summerskill, the only
lady among a party of British and
Canadian Parliamentarians visiting Aus-
tralia :
There are now 14 women in the House
of Commons and they are all vocal.
The last fiye words are redundant.
Our Labor-socialist Government has
prohibited the circulation of miniature
copies of the Chicago “Tribune” among
American service men in these parts.
This, if not its most shocking abuse of
power, should rank as the silliest. The
“Tribune” is read not only in the second
most populous State in the Union but in
two neighboring States with a combined
population greater than that of Illinois,
and if the U.S. Government and General
MacArthur are willing that American
service men in these parts should read
what American service men in other parts
are not forbidden to read, why* in thunder
should the Australian Government sup-
“Senator Cookhouse Keane speaking to all housewives. Take six quarts of milk,
two pints of cream, four dozen eggs, five pounds of butter, fourteen pounds
of rice; mix thoroughly and cook over a roaring coal fire.”
press it, especially as the “Tribune” people
issue the publication at their own ex-
pense? “Let truth and falsehood
grapple; who ever knew truth to be
worsted in fair encounter?” That was
written of seventeenth-century tyranny;
the new tyranny is inherent in all forms
of socialism from the Labor to the
Marxian variety.
Eight thousand regulations, 150 boards,
committees and commissions and an in-
crease of 40,000 public servants are on —
or are —Canberra’s war record. Regula-
tions average nearly five a day. The
Courts are doing their best to cope with
them.
The coal situation is now such that the
Victorian Railway Department has had
to cut suburban passenger traffic 25 p.c.
(there are cuts also in country passenger
and goods trains), and Dunstan said this
might only be a preliminary. On the
day of the announcement an admiring
Canberra correspondent informed his
Melbourne paper that “Dr. Evatt is be-
lieved to regard the present [coal] pro-
duction as reasonably good and to expect
an improvement as a result of the recent
talks.” “Talks” won’t raise steam in
boilers.
Dr. A. R. Callaghan, principal of Rose-
worthy Agricultural College (S.A.), told
an audience the other day that “if pro-
ducers could master the problems of dis-
tribution and marketing they could pro-
duce with confidence and certainty.”
True, but unless somebody masters soil
erosion in the meantime there’ll be neither
“confidence” nor “certainty.”
In control of Eire’s affairs since 1932,
De Valera has won another election, in
effect gaining an extension of power till
1949. Denied a majority 12 months ago,
his Fianna Fail’s strength was increased
from 67 to 76 (there are 138 seats) at the
expense of all the Opposition groups.
There is no getting away from the fact
that it was a strong vote for neutrality.
Oddly enough, John Dillon’s son, the only
deputy who is for entry into the war and
eventual return to Westminster, headed
the poll in his division.
Communists are supporting the idiotic
and ill-conditioned Actors’ Equity strike.
They also support Evatt’s Constitutional
amendments. That alone would insure
the defeat of the five-year proposals if
put to the vote ; but there is no reason
why they should be. The defence power,
properly exercised, would take care of
all repatriation and reconstruction meas-
ures until peace with all our enemies is
made, and it will be a long time before
that comes about. Smuts has suggested
that the last-war formula of an armistice,
followed eight or nine months later by
peace treaties, will be abandoned and that
there may even be no peace treaties at
all. In that case a state of war warranting
the exercise of the defence power may
last till nearly the middle of the century.
D’Alton, the High Commissioner at
Wellington, returned to Hobart to defend
an action for damages, one Little having
sued him for having, as State Minister
of Agriculture, got Little sacked as man-
ager of a co-operative society in which
the Government was interested. The jury
found for Little; damages, £4OO. As
the Acting Solicitor-General, instructed
by the Crown Solicitor, appeared, with a
K.C., for the defendant, damages and
costs will presumably be charged up to
the taxpayer. If Leg. Councillors, headed
by old-time cricketer Joe Darling, have
their way, D’Alton will remain or return
to give an account of his administration
of the Forestry Department, features of
which have been angrily attacked —
whether warrantably or unwarrantably
only an impartial man capable of weigh-
ing evidence can determine,
Adelaide Labor Council is concerned
about people transferred from highly-
paid Government munitions jobs to lesser-
paid work in other jobs, and is out to
see that the transferred workers “do not
suffer as a result of their change of em-
ployment.” Under Jack Beasley’s work-
for-all scheme workers will be “directed”
to jobs, and the logical result will be a
demand for high pay all round. This will
be followed by a rush for Government
jobs, and, since there’ll be nobody left
to find the tax-money necessary, who’s
to find the cash for the high wages?
Curtin speaks in the Canadian House
of Commons:
“S. M. Herald” Sydney “D.T.”
' correspondent. correspondent.
The scene was dra- Mr. Curtin missed
matic and impressive, chance of a li e-
.. , £ time. He delivered
Mr. Cmtin spoke tor an un i nsp inng speech.
40 minutes with his Journalists were dis-
customary fluency, appointed. The audi-
Throwing his head back ence was prepared for
proudly at the end he fireworks, but Mr.
said “The struggle to Curtin was soft-voiced,
preserve Australia was
a struggle to be of who a p peare( j oyer-
service to the world. awed at the reception,
There was a spon- stood with tired,
taneous outburst of stooped shoulders, his
clapping. The whole hands clasped and fid-
assemblage then rose; geting behind his back.
the applause was pro- Warming up, Mr,
longed and showed no Curtin’s delivery im-
sign of stopping. Mr. P r ° ved > but tbe sub .‘
rTirtir. ject was unchanged.
Curtin was immedi- J The crowd was at f en .
ately surrounded by tive but not enthusi-
members of the astic. Many obser-
Cabinet, who shook vers expressed disap-
his hand warmly. pointment.
A startling change from the practice of
Sydney daily papers. Hitherto on the
subject of their Labor idols they have
all said the same things.
North Queensland graziers are com-
plaining that to get horseshoes their re-
quests have to go through nine depart-
ments. The Deputy-Controller of Shoes
(horses, for the use of) is expected to
make an immediate inspection of horse-
shoe foundries with a view to ascertain-
ing whether the shortage is due to a lack
of bending machines.
From Canberra:
News of J. H. Prowse’s death •in Westralia
drew expressions of regret from people who
did not care for his politics. A tall, lean
Cornstalk, originally from Adelong, deceptively
dour in appearance and manner, he arrived in
the Commonwealth Parliament 22 years ago as
M.H.R. for Forrest (he had been Mayor of
Perth for two years), changing to Swan in
1925 after a redistribution of electoral boun-
daries; and there he remained till August, 1943,
having been Chairman of Committees and
Deputy Speaker for nine years. Fellow-
members found Prowse a good mixer with an
aptitude and liking for indoor and outdoor
spores, and he was useful to the Country
party and the cockies —he was himself a suc-
cessful farmer. But he hung on too long and
was finally engulfed by a wave of Labor
votes. He was just on 73 when the Last
Division came. *
From J. B. Yuille, for the Carey
Parents’ Association:
You were scarcely fair in criticising the atti-
of the Kew (Vic.) Council in endeavoring to
prevent a V.D. clinic being established at Kew
(B. 31/5/’44). The property adjoins on one
side the Carey Baptist Grammar School for
boys and on the other the Salvation Army
Home for girls. A less suitable place for the
establishment of such a clinic can scarcely be
conceived. •


YQUR place in a Tank Crew
■
M
■
sm
You may not be there in person,
but you can help some tank
crew by taking more than extra
care of your Exide House-light-
ing Batteries. This saves vital
materials and man-power needed
to provide batteries for our
Fighting Forces, who depend
upon Exide for over 100 services.
Take no chances with your house-lighting equipment. Consult
your wall chart regularly and get in touch with your Exide
distributor in your State immediately you suspect the need for
renewals or repair.
HOUSE-LIGHTING BATTERIES
STILL KEEP GOING WHEN THE REST HAVE STOPPED.
PERSONAL ITEMS
By winning Swan in Westralia’s Assem-
bly, R. C. Owen has followed the example
of F. J. S. Wise, now Minister for Lands
and Agriculture, who left the Agricul-
tural Department to get in for Gascoyne.
Wise, who went to Westralia from
Queensland, was Tropical Adviser in the
department; Owen, a horticultural ad-
viser. As a Bachelor of Agricultural Science
of W.A. Uni., Owen seems a logical
choice for fruitgrowing Swan. The by-
election was necessitated by the death of
R. S. Sampson, Westralia’s Northcliffe,
who left a tidy sum to public bodies in
the electorate.
Wine man and craftsman:
In S.A. and plenty other places the name
of Buring at once conjures up a vision of wine-
bottles with labels as tastefully designed as
such things can be. There’s a lot to those
labels. A. W. R. Buring, managing director
of the Buring and Sobels wine co., is his own
designer. He’s a natural craftsman who makes
a job of mastering anything in the craft line
that takes his fancy. Once it was illuminated
addresses, seven of which were presented to
George V, who in turn presented them to the
British nation. They’re now in a place of safe
keeping. From that to the mastery of ‘ fine
bookbinding, and then label designing lifted to
a special plane, the labels being hot merely
designed with appropriateness to the kind of
wine but to the particular vintage. As a matter
of course, A. W. R. Buring has a wide
acquaintanceship among artists; Lionel Lindsay
a particular friend. The Spring Vale Vineyards,
at the foot of Mount Horrocks (S.A.), date
back to explorer Eyre mapping out there an
area for John Answorth Horrocks and his
friends. Vines have been growing there since
1865. The Buring and Sobels co. dates from
1889, and the present managing director is a
son of the original Buring of the firm, which,
in 1910, became a private limited co. Since
A. W. R. BURING.
then Leo Buring, Talbot W. Sobels and L. D.
Sobels have been added to the board. Among
other things they and the present managing
director (only survivor of the original board)
are pleased about is that their Quelltaler hock
was the first Australian wine served at a Lord
Mayor’s banquet in London and also at the
House of Commons.
The Bulletin had an influx of literary
visitors from the A.I.F. First, two of his
cobbers from the “A.I.F. News” inquir-
ing about Lawson Glassop’s novel of
Tobruk which, shortly to be published by
Angus and Robertson, was read in MS.
by Norman Lindsay and the Red Page,
and is guaranteed a winner. Next, Sapper
Eric Locke—-born in England, service
with the A.I.F. in the Middle East and
New Guinea—who has had verses pub-
lished on the Red Page, and who is hav-
ing a volume brought out soon by a Bris-
bane publisher. Next, Sapper Herb
Murphy (Middle East and New Guinea)
wearing the slightly bewildered air appro-
priate to a balladist whose Strictly for
Soldiers (Currawong Press) sold 6000
copies. Murphy, who was in business
before the war at Aliena, 12 miles from
West Wyalong (N.S.W.), sang cheerfully
of “Me Little Wadi Cave” and “The
Army Flea” on one of the Red Pages of
A.I.F. verse. His father, the late M. W.
Murphy, published a book of ballads
called The Wayward Girl about 30 years
ago.
Walter Duncan takes the place of
David Gordon, who retires, as President
of the S.A. Legislative Council. Duncan,
whose father was a member for 30 years,
has been a member since 1918. Along
with politics, he chairs the Adelaide
boards of A.M.P., Goldsbrough Mort
and Bagot’s Executor Trustee co. He’s
also a director of 8.H.P., Adelaide Steam-
ship and other companies, and president
of the Royal Agricultural and Horticul-
tural Society. He’s 59.
Professor John Dudley Gibbs Medley,
M.A. (Oxon and Melb.), Vice-Chancellor
of Melbourne University, has established
a local record. Ex-Chancellor and octo-
genarian James Barrett is credited with
being president, vice-president or chair-
man of 54 committees, but Professor
Medley is reputed to be connected with
57. Now 53, Medley was born at
Oxford, educated there and at Winches-
ter, and was a Fellow of Corpus Christi,
Cambridge. He served in the British
Army throughout the last war and was
on Gibbs, Bright’s staff in London till
1930, when he was offered the head-
mastership of Tudor House School, Moss
Vale (N.S.W.).
From a fellow-warbird:
Doing his share again in this war, in an
R.A.A.F. ground job, Flight-Lieut. P. J. (Ginty)
McGinness, D.F.C., D.C.M., can be excused if
he should find things on the tame side and
reef at the bit. Enlisting at 17 in the Light
Horse, he won his D.C.M. in the desert cam-
paign before transferring to the Flying Corps.
After training in Egypt, he went down to Akaba
to assist Lawrence of Arabia by bombing the
Turk. That job done, he joined the famous
old No. 1 Squadron and soon had the repu-
tation of being one of its best fighter pilots.
He won his D.F.C. for shooting down six
out of seven enemy ’planes, another machine
assisting. Next day, with Hudson Fysh as
observer, he bagged a brace of two-seaters.
Subsequently he and Fysh surveyed the air
route from Longreach to Darwin and laid down
petrol supplies for the air race won by the
Smith brothers. Then with Fysh McGinness
went ’plane barnstorming about Queensland,
and next the pair floated and became managing
directors of Qantas. Temperament not taking
kindly to the routine of running a regular mail
run, McGinness sold his interests and bought
a grazing property in W.A., was caught with a
solid plaster on it when the depression arrived,
and lost the lot. After that he had a shot at
anything and everything, including a job with
Civil Aviation in Tasmania, building an aero-
drome. Just before the present war started he
was in Sydney trying his darnedest to get over
to China to have an advance crack at the Japs.
Member of the 10 British Parliamen-
tary delegates now touring Australia with
four Canadian reps., Reginald Purbrick
is the Melbourne-born accountant and
businessman who was onetime a walk-
ing and boxing champ. He adds also
wrestling, running, swimming and rowing
to his sporting interests. His commercial
activities enabled him to retire in 1921,
and he’s been in the Commons for the
Walton division of Liverpool since 1929.
A son, who met him after a seven-years’
break when the delegation arrived in Aus-
tralia, is an A.I.F. lieutenant and a large
property-holder in Victoria. Bom in
1877, Purbrick is one of the oldest of
the British delegates, who are led by
Lieut.-Col. E. T. R. Wickham, and in-
clude one woman delegate, Dr. Edith
Summerskill, and, as deputy-leader, the
fifth Earl of Listowel, youngest of the
party. J, G, Ross, who leads the Cana-
dians, is an authority on wheat.
Had a 91st birthday in Hobart, Harry
Douglas, one of the old-timers of Tassie’s
whaler fleets. At 19 he joined the Water-
witch, a barque with a colorful history,
then flying the McGregor house flag, and
he recalls with special relish that the prize
for every man who first sighted a whale
was a bottle of Jamaica rum. Another
special recollection is of John Woodcock
Graves, author of “D’ye Ken John Peel,”
walking arm-in-arm with Truganini, last
of the Tasmanian abos.
Richard Watson, S.A.-born but trained
in London, where he rose to be bass
soloist in both Westminster Abbey and
Covent Garden opera, has joined the
Elder Conservatorium of Adelaide Uni.
as a principal teacher of singing, after
recent years of work with Ivan Menzies
in G. and S. opera. He succeeds the late
Harry Wotton, who did much musical-
comedy work in Williamson companies
from “Going Up” onwards, Watson
hopes, with the co-operation of Barbara
Howard, to get real opera-in-English
going in Adelaide.
War correspondent:
The tufted ziff here portrayed by Frith only
very thinly disguises the fact that Bulletin war
correspondent John Brennan is just a shade
over 30. It gives the mossies that much less
of his £ft.-odd to bite. Early in the piece
Brennan got himself into the A.1.F., but an
eye that’s a shade wonky by A.I.F. standards
looked like dooming him to a base job. Want-
ing nothing less in soldiering than active ser-
vice, he was passed out as medically—that is,
optically—unfit for that. A born good handler
JOHN BRENNAN.
of boats, he then battled hard for an active
service post with the Navy, but finally had to
achieve his ambition —to get to the Pacific
fronts —as a correspondent. As his signed
dispatches from sundry parts of the Pacific and
Australia have shown, he has the right direct
descriptive touch for the job. He also has the
venturous make-up required in present-war
correspondent’s. So much so that in before-
petrol-ration days he owned a car that
threatened to fall to bits with every wheeze
and eventually coughed too hard. As well,
Brennan worked out a “system” for winning
money at the horses, and still believes it was
a good one, though he went broke. Also, be-
fore joining The Bulletin in 1932 he taught
French for a time with the ideal qualification
that he didn’t understand it. He thinks he was
overpaid in his teaching screw of 7s. 6d. per
week. A Sydneysider, he was first headed to
become a Marist Brother, but, after schooling
to that end at Campbelltown and Mittagong,
got out into the welter of things, with fishing
as his best-liked relief from work, “systems”
and suchlike. An uncle was the remembered
poet-professor Chris Brennan.
One of the first to enlist in W.A., where
he was born and educated, the soldier
who is now Lieut.-Col. Robert Ainslie,
D. 5.0., bagged for his number WX2O.
At 34 he has already seen service in
Palestine, Libya, Greece, Crete, Syria
and New Guinea, with wounds from the
Crete fighting. In New Guinea he was
C.O. of the crowd that included Derrick,
LT.-COL. AINSLIE, D.S.O.
V.C. Away from soldiering Ainslie is a
Perth legal man; admitted to the W.A.
Bar in 1932.
Elected honorary member of the In-
stitution of Electrical Engineers (Great
Britain), Amalgamated Wireless chairman
Ernest Fisk joins a rare band. There
have only been 51 hon. members in the
institution’s history, and only ten -re
living. Services to Australasian radio
communications were the reason for
Fisk’s appointment. Bom at Sunbury-
on-Thames (Eng.), of Scotch and English
parents, Fisk is both a capable engineer
and a visionary. One of his pet beliefs
used to be that radio would bring the
world together and cause the Dove of
Peace to settle on a tranquil planet. Fie
didn’t foresee the growth of short-wave
propaganda, which has turned the ether
into a vast arena of political disputation
in 47 different lingoes. As a writer and
public speaker on science, business econo-
mics and religion, Fisk is always pic-
turesque, and he has been first in almost
as many wireless fields as the late Mar-
coni. First to argue the possibility of
direct wireless communication between
England and Australia, Fisk conducted
the first inter-Empire broadcast and the
first world broadcast from Australia, and
inaugurated the first daily newspaper ser-
vice on ships in the Pacific. At 58 he’s
still inventing.
J, M. Park, M.L. Commissioner of
Taxes, who knew more about many
people’s financial standing than they
knew themselves, has retired after 42
years with the department which these
days dips extra deep into the pockets of
all and sundry. When he started it had a
staff of 40 handling £250,000 revenue ;
now a staff of 1100 handles a £55,000,000
return. His successor is F. G. Oborn,
Deputy Commissioner for the past couple
of years.
Into the silence:
At 76, in Melbourne, Judge Lionel Oscar
Lukin, Federal Judge-in-Bankruptcy since 1930
and* Judge of the Federal Arbitration Court
during the ticklish years of the depression,
a position he went J,o from the Supreme Court ,
of his native Queensland. In 1930 he became
first Federal Judge-in-Bankruptcy and left his
mark on the court in improved procedure.
Bom at Condamine, he started in the Mines
branch of the civil service, but, leaving it for
the law, was earning upwards of £4OOO as
leader of the Queensland Bar when he was in
his thirties.
At 79, in Melbourne, Robert Poulter, founder
of the nursery at Burwood which became world-
famous for, among other things, its carnations.
His Salamander was held to be the finest cut
flower in the world. Poulter came to Aus-
tralia from England in 1888, and with three
sons carried on his business for 50 years.
At 67, at Rotorua (M.L.), H. Tai Mitchell,
associated with Sir A. Ngata in many moves
for lifting the Maori on to a higher plane.
Government surveyor, champion of the natives
in litigation, Mitchell in his younger days was
notable in Rugby and Soccer. He received a
C.M.G. in 1939.
Oamaru (M.L.), lost within a week its two
Presbyterian parsons, men of high scholarship.
Dr. Theo Patterson collapsed after a game of
tennis. A few days later his confrere, Rev.
Lawson Marsh, taking a small boy in his car
to a boys’ camp a few miles from the town,
crashed into the express train.
At 83, in Melbourne, W. H. Gill, art con-
noisseur and one-time proprietor of the Fine
Arts Gallery, through the red door of which
went some of the most notable shows in Mel-
bourne It was at the Fine Arts that £lOOO
was paid for Arthur Streeton’s “Golden
Summer,” an Australian record. The exhibi-
tion there of the work of Albert Namatjira
was the first on local record to sell out com
pletely. Norman Lindsay’s annual new crop
was always displayed there, and many early
Hilders sold there at £lO that have since
fetched £2OO. A number of Melbourne mag-
nates owe their taste in antique furniture and
china to Gill, who, born in England, started
out as an art director for Robertson and Moffat
and brought out work of Whistler and many
other English masters.
In Melbourne, at 84, Frank Musgrave, well-
known Melbourne trainer, particularly for his
association with Ajax. Musgrave was one of
the few ex-jockeys to make a first-class success
as a trainer. In his jockey days he. mixed flat
and hurdle riding, and as a nine-year-old rode
three winners for his father at one meeting.
In Adelaide, at 64, Duncan Menzies, who,
born at Casterton (Vic.), was a teacher in S.A.,
housemaster at Roseworthy Agricultural Col-
lege, and with the 48th in France, where he
was twice wounded and reached the rank of
captain. Then an auctioneer at Clare (S.A.),
mayor and president of nearly everything in
sight. Next, at 47, he took up law, and ended
in Adelaide as member of the City Council
and mayor of suburban Prospect, as well as
having been chief of the Caledonian Society
and many other things. His son and namesake,
of great promise, S.A. Rhodes scholar for
1938, was killed with the Black Watch in
Burma.
, In Adelaide, at nearly 80, Inspector B. S.
Roach (he had the unusual baptismal name of
“Bertie”), who had over 50 years in the S.A.
Education Department. He was president of
the Library, Museum and Art Gallery of Adel-
aide when they were all one body, and a member
of the Libraries Board till his death. Prominent
in the Royal Society and Royal Geographical
too.


Society
"AND IT'S PRINTED
WITH WIMBLE'S INKS"
“A.J.K.”: Our unit sports a menag-
erie. There are in it 15 miscellaneous
mongs, four or five tabbies, pet lizards
and the medical boys’ kangaroo, and
there were also 78 roosters and a dozen
scraggy hens. At Easter the ratio was
adjusted to one rooster to the dozen hens;
poultry for two days, though tough, was
a pleasant change from billly beef. Most
of the hounds reside luxuriously at the
officers’ mess, where they’ve been christ-
ened according to individual traits or the
taste of the owner. There’s “Clockwork”
(full of ticks), there’s “Two-pot” (after a
P.O. who can’t take the third pint) and
there’s “Typewriter.” When Typewriter
gave birth to five little portables, a pro-
gressive count was amplified over the
camp speaker system, and that night
many an anxious airman paced his tent
far into the late hours. The cats live in
the padre’s welfare library tent. After
the nightly bowl of powdered milk, they
contentedly purr off to their bed in the
bottom shelf of books—between Winston
Churchill and the Oxford Dictionary,
¥ ¥ ¥ ¥
“Cheeser”; It is proposed in Victoria
to honor Henry Kendall by making his
home in Fitzroy a “Kendall Shrine.”
Kendall left a decent job in N. S, Wales
to take up a literary career in Melbourne.
He was soon disillusioned. After Gor-
don’s tragic end and his daughter Ara-
luen’s death, he returned to Sydney, His
prophecy that “other friends in other
hours” would tend the flowers on Ara-
luen’s grave has been fulfilled: in 1927
the Australian Literature Society placed
a tablet on her grave, and pilgrimages
have been made to it. It is (alas!) a
pauper grave. In the same compartment
is buried Charles Whitehead, a contem-
porary of giants, and himself a fashion-
able writer for a time. There is a tradi-
tion that Whitehead got Dickens the job
of writing Pickwick Papers.
¥ ¥ ¥ *
“Click”: Best example I know of the
use of background sound (B. 17/5/’44)
was in “One of Our Aircraft Is Missing.”
In this British-made film the noises of
the Dutch countryside, the bells of
bicycles, the tramp of Nazi soldiers, a
distant gramophone, a few soft bars of
organ music and other appropriate and
realistic sounds were introduced with tell-
ing effect.
¥ ¥ ¥ ¥
“V. Cluse”: A London biochemist
claims to have proved that what the
human body needs more after a bender is
not a hair of the dog that bit it, but a
good drink of fruit juice. I’m with him.
Six of us were entertained well, but not
wisely, by a welcome committee in a
N.S.W. town, and next morning were
taken on a tour of the place and its dis-
trict, You never saw six sorrier speci-
mens. At the first call, browsing about, I
found a small, ripe rockmelon, and, glad
of anything to quench the fire and smoke,
engulfed it. Ten minutes later I was as
bright as a cricket, and have ever since
enjoyed the reputation of being able to
survive anything.
¥ ¥ ¥ ¥
“T. McN.”: My nomination for the
most intriguing story of the war appeared
in Sydney “D.T.” on 2/6/’44 with a
London date line. It claimed that men
and women of Tito’s Yugoslav Partisans
“have sworn a solemn oath of chastity,”
and said that, though they shared every-
thing from tucker to bunks, always the
oath of chastity stood between them.
Then came the gem:
Two Partisan girls who became pregnant
were court-martialled. Within a few hours
the girls stood before a firing squad of
their own sex. Only after the bullet-riddled
bodies fell into the open ditch did a male
officer perform the routine duty of empty-
ing his revolver into the bodies.
There was news, too, of a British sailor,
allegedly caught in an “ill-famed area,”
whom the Partisans wanted to shoot but
whom the Navy allegedly sent home, and
of a British naval officer who remarked
“The women are magnificent, but terri-
fying, too,” I told this story to the office
sceptic. Cynically he commented “Lay
that pistol down. Babe, lay that pistol
down! ”
“Do you give lessons ?”
“Bo”: I know a man who can testify
that Sydney’s Milk Board goes to no end
of trouble to satisfy its customers. He
has a stomach ulcer, also a doctor’s cer-
tificate for cream. The certificate having
been rejected by the milkman as insuffi-
cient authority for extra milk, the cus-
tomer went to the board. Certainly he
could have extra milk ; purely a matter of
filling in a form. He waited while the offi-
cial searched for a suitable form. During
his 28th yawn the official returned, indi-
cated a printed form and told my friend
to sign it. The applicant looked at the
printed heading, got up, thrust out his
jaw and grunted belligerently “Do /
look like an expectant or nursings
mother?” The official went in search of
advice from some Taller Poppy. It was
sqpe time before, chastened, he returned
with a virgin sheet for the applicant’s
signed needs. That was over a month
ago. No extra milk has yet resulted, but,
as the customer says in warm defence of
the board’s thoroughness, isn’t this proof
that it is checking up his great-uncle’s
birthplace or something to guard against
irregularities?
¥ ¥ ¥ ¥
“Peter Piper”: “Oh, I’ve dropped my
wool!” exclaimed the dear old soul who
had got into our early-morning bus and
(of course) had to stand at the rear.
Dropped it she had, six skeins of it, and,
caught in the bus’s slipstream, it was now
stretching out for half a mile behind us.
A young soldier began to wind it in, and
others of us tried to help, one by piping
up “Yo, heave-ho!” An unsuspecting
youth on a bicycle rode out of a side
street, and, becoming tangled in wool,
careered on to the footpath and fell off.
At an intersection the wool wrapped itself
round an astounded traffic cop and took
his cap off. In the end, men’s laughter
mingling with flappers’ titters, most of
the wool was recovered and handed to
the embarrassed owner. Who said the
age of chivalry is dead?
* * * *
“Derwent”: At the beginning of last
year Tasmania tightened up its Marriage
Act, among other things making it neces-
sary for the parties to give seven days’
clear notice. All personal particulars
have now to be carefully checked and
verified; in most cases the information
papers go to the Registrar-General
beforehand for this purpose. One
revealed result has been the very large
proportion of couples who don’t get their
Christian names in the right order, don’t
spell them correctly, are anything from
a few days to a year out in their ages, and
are unaware of other details with which
they should be familiar. There has either
been a good deal of casualness in regis-
tering births or too many pubs were
visited on the way. Anyway, the return
of the corrected information paper to
the celebrant to enable the certificates to
be filled in in accoxdance with the records
is producing some awkward situations.
* * * *
“Ear Punisher”: When the history of
this war comes to be written a chapter
will have to be devoted to the battle that
has raged in Melbourne for months over
the humble beer pot. It began with the
prosecution of the licensee of a Swanston-
street pub for refusing to supply lloz. pots
of beer to Commonwealth officers. The
magistrate found that under National
Security (Prices) Regulations a Bung had
a wide discretion on how he should dis-
pense his beer, and dismissed the infor-
mation. The case was taken to the Full
High Court. That august body disagreed
with the magistrate’s finding, but held
that the barman had supplied a reason-
able quantity of stingo to the officers con-
cerned in 7oz. and 4oz. glasses. Hostili-
ties were dying down when Professor
Copland began considering, in consulta-
tion with his committees of experts in
statistics, ballistics and the Higher Mathe-
matics, ways and means of restoring the
“normal relationship” between the per-
centage of sales in the various types of
vessels in which beer is dispensed. What-
ever the professor may decide, I know I
still won’t get my pot, a request of that
sort having, in my case, the effect of
producing a chronic state of blindness and
deafness in the barmaid. Nevertheless,
when 1 look at a pot now it seems to be
surrounded by a sort of halo.
¥ ¥ ¥ ¥
Centenary note:
The Y.M.C.A. has entered upon its second
century. At first a religious body, if was
founded in London by George Williams, a
draper’s apprentice, and 11 others, mainly
his fellow-employees: Edward Beaumont, C.
W. Smith, Norton Smith, Edward Valentine,
M. Glasson, William Creese, Frances John
Crockett, E. Rogers, John Harvey, John C.
Symons and James Smith. The foundation
meeting was held on June 6, 1844, in George
Williams’s room. A branch—the first beyond
the U.K. —was formed in Adelaide on March 15,
1851; then one in Sydney (September 1853),
with Hobart, Brisbane and Perth following.
The Adelaide and Sydney branches lapsed for a
period, but the Melbourne branch, established
in May, 1871 (John C. Symons was there),
never suspended operations, although it suf-
fered reverses. It has had quarters in Swanston,
Collins, Bourke and Russell streets, in Bourke-
street again and Flinders-street. The second
Bourke-street H.Q. cost £58,000; it was lost in
the bank smashes of the ’nineties, and is now the
Salvation Army’s Southern H.Q. After the
Flinders-street period came the move to the
present home at Princes Bridge; it cost £lOO,OOO
and 'is the largest Y.M.C.A. premises in the
Southern Hemisphere- Australians are familiar
with the association’s war work. This part of
its activities began during the American Civil
War in 1861, and from that to the Boer War
was but a step. Today Y. Emma’s humanising
mission is known in 64 countries; in fact, the
-tree planted in 1844 has put forth 10,500
branches with 2,500,000 members.
¥ He ¥ , ¥
“Zake”: They stood alongside me at
the music-shop counter, having met by
accident. “Hullo, Gwen, what have you
been buying?” one asked. Gwen held
up an album. The other glanced at the
cover and laughed. “Oh, that stuff!”
She took it, flicked it open to “The Water
Fay’s Song,” which she skimmed through.
“Aren’t the words silly !” she said.
“ T heard a brooklet singing from out a rocky
cave,
And down the valley murmur, so fresh and
clear and brave,’
“How on earth could a brooklet sing or
be brave? Those old Johnnies must have
been a lot of pansies.” “What have you
been getting, Joan?” asked Gwen. Joan
held up her prize. “You must have heard
this,” she said. “It’s one of the hit tunes,
sung by Bing and Frankie and Dinah
Shore.” She opened it. Gwen read out:
“If you’re satisfied, '
I’ll be at your side
Sunday, Monday and always.”
“Aren’t the words cute ?” exclaimed Joan.
When the damsels drifted away I reflected
that Schubert, with his fatal facility for
writing songs to great poets’ words, would
not, alive today, be in the race with Gus
Blumenschnitzer and A 1 Bolloni, and
that lyrists like Heine, who had never
heard of the idea of using the “theme”
line 16 times in two stanzas, would be
regarded as suckers in Tin Pan Alley,
* * * *
“C.R.”: When the Sixth Division
was camped on Salisbury Plain in
July, ’4O, my crowd was com-
manded by an enthusiastic major.
Besides doing hard infantry train-
ing we were supposed to be ready
to deal with enemy paratroops who
might land in that area if the threat-
ened invasion came off. The major
told us a practice alarm would be
sounded ,at night. As the bugle
blared “General Alarm” at 2300
hours, we turned out —so did all
the Tommies in near-by British
camps, who’d had no warning and
thought it was dinkum. Their
buglers passed on the call until most
of the troops on the Plain were
standing to. The major had a few
uncomfortable moments with the
brig., but he wasn’t squashed. He
decided to repeat the practice next
night, but made the signal a hunt-
ing call, sounded on the bugle. The
bugler gave us a rendering on
parade so that we would recognise
the call, and the major gave us a
general ear-bashing about turning
out and falling in * silently. That
night, when the bugler was about
halfway through, the company
dashed out of the tents yelling
“Tally-ho” and yelping like hounds
in full cry. It took the major five
minutes to get his breath ; then he
marched us over the Downs until
first light. Poor major—he was
killed in New Guinea.
“Colonial Cove”: In writing of an
earlier Australia, novelists and amateur
historians are excessively given to the use
of the term “convict.” Having ploughed
through the archives of a considerable
section of the same period, I have yet to
discover the word in any legal or Gov-
ernmental document. The Law and those
who enforced its edicts invariably wrote
them down as “Crown prisoners.”
PLENTY OF COMPETITION.
‘There is much activity among aspirants for office
in the about-to-be-picked McKell Ministry, and some
Labor members are already pressing their claims for
inclusion. ’ ’— “S.M . H.”
“To be or not to be” —that is the question
That agitates a lot of worthy souls
Rightly anticipating some congestion
Of claims for envied Ministerial roles.
And when the fixed and final composition
Of Cabinet is settled, I’ll engage
Some hearts will leap with gratified ambition
And quite a few with rage,
“These fight like husbands” (Dryden), “those
like lovers,
These fain would keep and those more fain
enjoy”—
A couplet, I suggest, that fairly covers
The energies that either will employ,
These doggedly intent upon returning
To sweets of office on the tart-shop shelves,
And those who feel an even fiercer yearning
To taste those sweets themselves.
What logs, one speculates, roll hither and hence
there, •
What scheming underneath the surface goes,
When scores of sturdy democrats commence
their
Struggle for lucrative portfolios!
Hard roads, one hears the veterans reminding,
Demand old dogs, while youngsters just as
keen
Stress the advisability of finding
New brooms to sweep more clean.
Sound gifts, High aims, ideas that flow fertilely,
May rank among your titles to success,
But I should be inclined to rate more highly
A talent for ingratiatingness.
For favor of his fellows, with its shuffles
From smiles to frowns, fromveheers to whips
and scorns,
I back the man who fewest feathers ruffles
And treads on fewest corns.
Here’s luck to all who’re waiting for a whir at
The prizes offered under Labor rule!
May the best win! Palmam qui meruit ferat,
As runs the Latin tag I learned at school.
Restrained or noisy, smooth of tongue or
raucous,
Your chance of getting what you deem your
due
Rests on the lap of an all-potent Caucus—
And what it thinks of you.
N.S.W.
T. THE R.
WINTER.
“O winter, ruler of the inverted year,”
However one may wish you weren’t, it’s clear
You’re here, it’s undeniable you’re here.
You bring, by war’s immutable decrees,
A certain absence of amenities
We’re bound to miss the more in days like
these.
My pants grow shinier, but when Keane can sit
In his and scorn to grouch, ’twould scarce befit
A chap like me to make a song of it.
Butter and milk and eggs beneath the stress
Of rationing get sorrowfully less.
But these are things must be endured, I guess.
I feel a haunting doubt my stock of fuel
Will last till Boreas blows a bit less cruel;
But, young or old, we all must take our gruel.
Packed bars attest that Bungs are doing well,
But scrimmaging for aught they choose to sell
Becomes an ordeal scarce endurable.
And I for one deplore—though candor grants
It well may please teetotal militants —
The scarcity of wholesome stimulants.
So, winter, hurry on your path assigned
With blasts of that which poets call the wind.
There’s but one heartening thing to bear in
mind
Now you’ve arrived, spring can’t be far behind.
N.S.W.
IFORD


"Don't let us quarrel, Skipper—it'll on'y 'elp the Nips!"
“Cardiff”; I daresay it. is difficult
for sub-editors of raconteurs and descrip-
tive writers to keep chestnuts out of their,
stuff [lt is— B.]; all the same it gave
me a mild shock to read “one of Perth s
two best stories of the month,” certified
as such by a Sydney daily’s special:
The train from Albany to Perth swayed
and rattled and jolted. ,
“When does this train get to Perth/
the woman passenger asked.
The guard was patient. “Madam, you ve
asked me that question 10 times in the
last three hours. I've told you. Why go
on asking me?” .
“Because I’m going to be delivered of a
child.” , ,
The guard controlled himself. ‘Madam,
why dr* women in your condition always
leave it to the last minute to travel?”
The woman was grim. “I wasn’t preg-
nant when tins train started,” she said.
It must be the oldest slow-train joke
in captivity. Even 50 years ago no music-
hall comedian, could have resuscitated it
without getting “the bird.”
* * * *
“Pitt St.”: It appeared that some person
of careless habit, having set off with a
bag of old tiffs, retired footwear, dismem-
bered bottles and other odds and ends
with the intention of dropping same over
a, cliff, had left the tram and forgotten
the bag. At the terminus the conductress
inspected the bag, then informed the
driver of its presence. He opened it
gingerly, closed it, ruminated and deliv-
ered himself thus: “It ain’t lost property,
so we can’t take it back. sWhadda we
goin’t’ do?” The conductress vehemently
denied responsibility. A small crowd
gathered. Discussion waxed hot. Then
a casual, still-faced bloke of obviously
rural habit pushed through the crowd,
seized the bag, walked the 60 feet or so
to the cliff-edge and heaved it over. With
sighs of relief and glances of admiration
for the daring fellow, the passengers got
aboard, the conductress pulled the cord
and the flow of public transport resumed
its harmony.
* * * *
“Tuart”: One of the members of the
Imperial War Cabinet assembled by Lloyd
George in 1917 (14 altogether) was Sir
Edward Morris, Prime Minister of New-
foundland, There was no Newfound-
lander at the conference of Empire
Prime Ministers that Curtin attended ; in
1933, after a stormy political and finan-
cial history in which Morris himself was
engulfed a few months after the Imperial
War Cabinet was inaugurated (he retired
to England as Baron Morris of St. John’s
and Waterford), the Dominion went
bung, and since February, 1934, has had
government by commission. With
memories of Sydney’s City Commission,
I was prepared for the information, con-
veyed dispassionately in the Manchester
“Guardian,” that “government by com-
mission, almost unanimously welcomed
in 1934, has fallen from grace,” and is
indeed almost unanimously hated ; but
“Mr. Attlee, who visited Newfoundland
over a year ago, has said that* Newfound-
landers do not know what they want, and
that is true.”
They do not want complete self-govern-
ment if that means the possibility of a
relapse into political corruption. Sentiment
is against confederation with Canada or
union with the United States, [and] union
with Britain, combining a measure of self-
government with the possibility of financial
has not received the considera-
tion it deserves.
Though Newfoundland is England’s
oldest colony the inhabitants are largely
of Irish descent, like the inhabitants
of Massachusetts. I suppose Canberra
would consider it insulting to be reminded
that a Dominion can go broke and accept
the loss of self-government in the hope of
being lifted out of the mess.
“Hist”: Not only overseas artists slip
when illustrating Australian troops (B.
24/5/'44). A Melbourne paper which
runs a good colored strip of the exploits
of decorated service men gave us the
charge of the Light Horse at Beersheba,
with galloping horsemen waving swords.
No L.H. regiments were armed with
swords until August, 1918. They
were mounted infantry armed with
rifles ; the First and Second Brigades re-
mained as such until the end of the cam-
paign. Sword-armed cavalry are expected
to charge when the need arises, but
mounted infantry go into action dis-
mounted. At Beersheba, having neither
swords nor lances, the Light Horsemen
rode with naked bayonets in their hands,
purely for the moral effect on the enemy.
* + * *
“Pip”: Men and women discharged
from the services since January 1 are not
obliged to queue up for smokes. Men
get a weekly allowance of 2oz. tobacco
or 60 cigarettes; half rations for women.
Those eligible have to apply each week
to the Customs for a permit, which can be
redeemed on presentation to any retailer.
4?
“T.McN.”: There seems to be a flood
of criticism in Sydney because the milk
ration has been reduced. Yet a little
thought would convince even the loudest
critic that the mere fact of there being
any milk at all is a vivid illustration of
the successful working of the modern
supply system. Think of it! The care-
taker unlocking the Milk Board doors
at 9 a.m., the liftman oiling the lifts,
office boys sorting the mail, typists
powdering their little noses, clerks put-
ting on their office coats, attendants at-
tending to the heating, “executives” arriv-
ing—all the confusedly ordered movement
of an important department. Then think
of the forms to be sorted and mailed, the
interviews to "be given, the ’phone calls,
the accounting, the making of morning
tea, the day rushing on to noon. And
all this, all of it, to make sure that an
unknown, unshriven, ungrateful anony-
mity like me doesn’t get enough milk to
drink!
* * H* *
“Craiser”: Touching the Australian
idiom and others (B. 10/ 5/’44). A Mel-
bourne man asked an soldier how
he liked the country. “I like the country
fine,” said the soldier, “but I can’t under-
stand the people. They use so muc’
slang.”
* * * »
“Pip”: The civilian policeman oi
“Iford’s” verses (B. 17/5/’44) who ob
jected to the appellation “copper” has nc
army counterpart. Our cops are made of
sterner stuff, and I’ve yet to meet one
that is thin-skinned. As they are mili-
tary policemen, members of the Provost
Corps, the normal titles of “M.P.” and
“Provost” are legitimate abbreviations.
But they, too, get “copper,” and are
“Jacks” in this war as in the last;
also “redcaps”—a rather puzzling term
to the new recruit, “Screw” is loosely
applied, but in its more exact sense it
means a member of a detention bar-
racks staff. From our Allies “bulls” has
been lifted. House callers checking on
ack-willies are “sleuths,” and their job
is “snooping.” Issue of the arrest war-
rant they carry is “putting the blood-
hounds on the trail.” The road patrol-
men are “speed cops,” and the street
plodders, so fond of examining leave
passes, are “flatties.” All provosts, 'in
general, are liable to the terms “Gestapo”
and “hatchet men.” The R.A.A.F.
equivalents include members of the
W.A.A.A.F. “Bluey’s” first encounter
with one of these lasses rocked him to
his foundations. “ ’Struth,” he muttered
hollowly, “female John ’Ops! ” We raced
for the shelter of the nearest pub.
* * * *
“T. McN.”: Anybody who wishes to
attend a picture show, a theatre (union
permitting) or a prize fight can do it in
comfort by paying for the seat in advance.
That seat will remain vacant after the
entertainment begins and until it becomes
obvious that its hirer isn’t coming. Any-
one who wishes to travel by sea or air
can do so in comfort by booking a
place in the same way. On the N.S.W.
railways, under the latest ukase from
Czar Hartigan, you may book your seat
on a train, but there’s no guarantee that
you’ll get it unless you’re prepared to go
along 15 minutes before the train starts
and firmly entrench yourself therein,
whereupon, presumably, you may hold
it if you can.
* * * *
“Chevroford”: Melbourne’s Tramway
Board is up against a wholly unexpected
sumptuary problem. When it installed
conductresses in its trams and buses it
equipped them with a neat skirted cos-
tume that an admiral would have been
proud to be seen in if an admiral wore
skirts. With the onset of winter the fare-
pursuing ladies demanded coupons for
stockings, protesting that careless travel-
lers put hoofs on their stockings, if worn,
and produced ladders. The extra coupons
not being forthcoming, the damsels made
the alarming suggestion that slacks should
be issued to them, slacks being much more
suitable for the jungle conditions of the
average public conveyance in Melbourne
these days. The board’s moral feelings
were outraged. But after all, trousers
would cover much more of the anatomy
of their feminine employees than the
skirt does.
* * * *
“Ike Hollar”: Touching that American
questionnaire (B. 31/5/ ’44), there are
some horrible gaps in our own people s
knowledge of what should be essential
facts. For evidence, listen to any radio
quiz. A query about the date of the
foundation of this Commonwealth
stumped a whole series of competitors.
On the other hand, there was an eager
rush to name the horse that won the
Melbourne Cup in 1922.
“B-gar”: The quiz competitor had
managed to answer the first four ques-
tions; the fifth, if answered correctly,
would bring the cash in. “What are
traces?” the announcer asked. The com-
petitor promptly replied “Tracer bullets.”
No, the announcer didn’t mean that, and
to convey the word he meant he spelt it
out. “Oh, yes,” answered the competitor,
“they’re the reins on • a horse.”
“Correct; pay the gentleman the money.”
All I ask now before I die is to see an
announcer harness a horse.
* * * *
“Hamfat”: Of all Gilbert’s lines the
one that appeals most to theatricals is the
Duke of Plaza-Toro’s remark when told
that the band has gone on strike—“ How
like a band!” Over the years many an
“Let's 'ave a cream de mong while we're waitin'."
orchestra has downed instruments in
many countries; but in Australia, at least,
an actors’ strike is a new thing, born of a
unionised age. The first actors’ Imion was
formed in 1912, with John Cosgrove the
first man to pay his entrance fee —a fact
notable in itself, considering Cosgrove’s
happy-go-lucky impecuniosity. Theatrical
managements countered by assisting
the formation of a tame association
with Walter Bentley (“the Scotch
Hamlet” to the profession) in charge;
and the union was beaten flat. _ Its
members joined the tame association,
but they kept on organising within /it
until they were ready for action. Then
they threw out the officers favored by
the managements and resurrected tne
union. The name was changed to the
“Actors’ Equity” in sincere flattery of
the U.S. organisation, which every stage
performer in America has to join before
he or she can walk the boards.
“Cauboy”: Interested in the artistic
side of the theatre, but not in its politics, I
refrained from attending the emasculated
performances put on in Melbourne during
the strike. As the tariff was not reduced 1
infer that choruses and ballets are re-
garded as having no monetary value in
terms of entertainment. If so, I should
like to know why the dearest seats and
those most sought after by baldheads are
the front row of the stalls. They are the
worst seats from an aesthetic viewpoint.
One is too close to hear the orchestral
music, too low to get anything but a
worm’s-eye view of the proceedings and
too near to appreciate to their fullest the
pictorial illusions .„of the scene-painter s
art and the make-up expert’s science.
Moreover, it is difficult at a distance of
20 feet to maintain one’s belief that all
juvenile leads are dashing young men
and leading ladies things of 19.
Similar positions at the talkies are
shunned like poison. I hesitate to sug-
gest that they are in such high favor in
the theatre because of legs, but if this is
so why doesn’t Actors’ Equity ask for
100 guineas a week for every chorus lady
and £2 10s, for stars above the age of
20?
* * * *
“Melbn”: War-time Governments do
queer things, so passers-by weren’t alto-
gether staggered when they saw a familiar
notice, which portends destruction,
“Whelan the Wrecker Is Here,” posted
outside the Royal Melbourne Hospital
at Parkville, just completed. But it wasn’t
some department rectifying a mistake in
location by tearing down the sickbay and
putting it up somewhere else. The sin-
ister announcement referred only to the
removal of A.R.P. brickwork from the
windows.
# $ * *
“Si Anu”: The reported fear of a
rabies epidemic in New York is a re-
minder that Australia is free of this
dreadful disease, no case having ever
been reported. Hydrophobia is endemic
in most parts of Asia, and used to be so
severe in Java that whites who knew
their onions wore leather leggings during
the rabibs season. Anybody who has
seen a case is never likely to forget it.
First symptoms appear after six or eight
weeks in loss of appetite, depression, in-
tense irritability and difficulty in swal-
lowing. Excitability increases, and any
slight shock or sudden noise will pro-
duce a violent spasm, particularly in the
throat. The supposed fear of water which
gave the complaint its name is not a fear
of water but a complete inability to
swallow. It was Pasteur who devised the
cure by inoculation, and the Pasteur In-
stitutes at Batavia and Saigon were the
havens for hundreds of sufferers who,
in pre-Pasteur days, would have died
raving mad.


ABORIGINALITIES
SILVER BIRCH IN THE SUBURB.
To lima her beauty beautiful words are needed;
Her nature is to flourish and glow, unheeded,
With her slim sisters scattered in sparse groves
Among great boulders and bracken and foxes
gloves;
In winter naked and unashamed to show
Her pendent twigs of porphyry and her bark
Of sheeted snow with crevices ragged and dark.
The random eyes in spring she catches and
With her robes of emerald and breeze-tossed
tassels *
She riots through summer in leafage of luminous
green
That shades her moss-slippered feet with a
quivering screen;
In autumn, draped in amber and amethyst,
She shines all glorious through the mountain
mist.
What can she muse upon, forlornly there.
In the hard inhuman street-light’s pitiless
glare?—
Elbowed into the gutter, soiled by scum,
Like some bewildered angel lost in a slum.
MAORILAND. ARNOLD WALL.
* * * *
“Zake”: “They talk about dorgs an’
horses bein’ friends o’ man,” said
“Pilliga” Pete, “but give me a bullick
every time. I’m doggin’ with a china up
round Quambone once, and a teamster
leaves a lame bullick in the paddick we’re
camped in while he’s away. I useter give
that bullick titbits. He’d come up an'
watch me make a damper an’ foller
me round for his cut. But one day,
just after I’d lifted the damper out o’
the camp oven and puts it on the table,
blast me if the bullick don’t force his way
into the shack, git up on his hind legs
an’ paw the damper on to the floor. Then
he kicks it outside, gets out himself, hooks
the damper on his horn, goes orf with it
a fair way, knocks it orf against a tree
and starts treadin’ it to bits, I’m real
narked about it, but nex’ mornin’, just
near the remains, is two dead goannas.
Then I wakes up. Yair, that bullick had
seen me put arsenic in the mixture from
a tin I kept it in alongside the bakin’
powder tin!”
* * * *
“Betcha”: Reynard doesn’t always
sneak off. About an hour after I had set
a couple of rabbit traps in the gully for
dog feed there came a squeal, and, fol-
lowed by both mongs, I was going across
to collect when a fox appeared, bent on
the same mission. I sooled the dogs.
They charged obediently enough, but the
quarry came to meet them, and in a few
seconds more was doing the chasing him-
self. Disgusted, I bellowed orders and
threats until, encouraged by my presence,
one mong turned to attack. There was a
lot of growling and snarling, then yelps
and howls. Arriving on the spot I found
the fox had his teeth clamped in the dog’s
upper jaw, the grip extending from the
mouth to half an inch below one eye.
Although I kicked and hammered, and
even jumped on it as I beard the bones
in the dog’s head crunch under the pres-
sure of its jaws, that fox hung on. Even
after I’d crushed his head in I had to
prise the fangs from their grip to release
the dog.
* * : i : *
“Caballer”: In nearly all countries
there are times and seasons when every
living thing disappears and the man who
is left with rifle or shotgun to get his
tucker is apt to do a perish. At times in
the N.Q. scrubs, particularly during the
winter rains, there is not a wallaby, tree-
climbing kangaroo or pigeon, and the
fish in the rivers refuse to bite. There is
nothing a white man could live on. Black-
fellows can tackle “jambons,” the big,
white grubs which they chop out of old
logs. The abo. can also soak ground-up
walnuts —poisonous if not soaked —and
bake cakes of a sort, but I’ve never seen
a white man hard enough to come at it.
When passionfruit are plentiful or
pigeons come for the seeds on the lilli-
pilii trees the abo. is in good condition,
and even gins have enough to eat. In
hard times I’ve seen abos. with their ribs
nearly sticking through their skin line up
for bread and jam and hop into it until
they were full to the back teeth and
tonsils. Then, with that old-world
courtesy for which the innocent savage
the-world over is noted, they would lick
the jam from the bread and hand the
licked bread to grateful gins waiting
patiently in the background.
$ * # *
“Mat’s Mate”: We were heading up
into the Pinaroo (S.A.) country for the
harvest, aboard a mixed train from Adel-
aide. The thing lumbered along, stop-
ping every few miles at a siding, where-
upon train crew and everybody else went
into a doze for an hour or so, stirred,
shunted a truck or two, then wearily
started the train again. By noon, from a
7.30 a.rn. start, we’d done about half the
120-odd mile journey; it was hot, the
dogbox compartment was stuffy and we
were fed up. Somewhere about then the
train stopped and a bearded ancient got
into our compartment.' “Where’d you
get in, mister?” asked Mat. “Oh, I bin
aboard all the time,” replied the old ’un.
“Bin back there tidin’ with the guard.
We’re old mates.” Mat looked at him.
“By cripes,” he said, “so y’ ought -t’ be
if y’ bin together all these years.”
* * * *
“Moyhu”: Asa derogatory term ap-
plied to humans “gone to seed” appears
to be a bad misnomer. In the plant and
animal kingdoms the bearing of seed is
development at its peak, the full flush of
procreation. During the period of maxi-
mum fruitfulness plant or animal is at
its most aggressive, assertive, attractive
stage. A green seeding plant pulled out
of the ground will not wilt and die im-
mediately as a plant in an earlier stage
of growth would, but, sustained by the
impulse to reproduce its kind, it will
persist for hours and sometimes days
without soil or moisture, turning its seed-
head valiantly towards the sun.
* * H* HS
“Arev”; Bill Jupp was riding home
from the township when he saw Brown
the poundkeeper walking along the road,
driving before him a young Jersey cow,
which Bill instantly recognised as
Murphy’s. As he rode behind the pound-
keeper Bill pondered upon ways and
means of releasing his neighbor’s cow.
"I had a feelin' this wasn't the Manly ferry!"
Perhaps if he galloped past, the cow
would take fright and dash away from
its captor; but Brown would be sure to
resent such an action, and it was just as
well to keep on friendly terms with the
poundkeeper. Yet poor old Murphy
must have his cow taken from Brown’s
clutches. As Bill cogitated a big brewery
wagon, with empty bottles rattling a fierce
tattoo, came along the road. Wildly
the cow turned and rushed back towards
Bill. “Stop her! Stop her!” yelled
Brown. Bill waited until the Jersey had
passed him, then he raced in pursuit.
Adroitly he ran the cow into the scrub
out of sight of the poundkeeper. Then
he cracked his whip at the Jersey’s heels
and sent her along the narrow path
beside the creek. Five minutes later Bill
returned along the road to the pound-
keeper. “She got away from me,” he
said. “I followed her to the bridge, but
she’s well out of sight. I’m afraid she’s
halfway to Bundoon now.” “Damn that
wagon,” said Brown. “I was going well
until it came along. Goodness knows
where the cow will end up.” On his
way home Bill met Murphy at his gate
and told him of his smart manoeuvre. “I’d
have hated to see a cow of yours in the
pound,” he finished. Murphy got a word
in then. “Brown wasn’t taking the Jersey
to the pound. He was taking her home to
his farm. I’d just sold her to him.”
* * » *
“P. Blair”: That gardener of “P.A.’s”
(B. 10/5 / ’44) who hung his scythe out all
winter so as to give it a good coat of rust
differed from John Fahey, for whom I
gathered, bundled and stocked while he
laid on with the scythe. John always
lamented that in Australia there were no
bogs. “For in Ireland a man just took
his scythe at the end of the season and
drove it into the bog—and when he lifted
it again next year it would come out shiny
as a new shilling.” And John would have
considered the hanging out of a scythe
purposely to rust it the act of a lunatic;
he maintained that, apart from the keen-
ness of the cutting edge, a silver-bright
scythe halved the labor by lessening the
friction of the cut stalks as they fell back
over the blade.
* * * *
“P.A.”: “Botano’s” argument about
wattles playing a minor role to eucalypts
in the forest scheme (B. 17/5/’44) holds
good only where the wattle is of lowly
stature. In the deep gullies of the lower
Blue Mountains (N.S.W.) he’d find the
cedar wattle {Acacia data ) towering on
60ft. trunks to reach the sunlight in com-
petition with redgums, bloodwoods and
strangles, Long-lived, this handsome tree
with its fernlike foliage refuses to be
shouldered out. Down in the densely-
packed mountain ash forests it might
have been relegated to minor work or
even squeezed out, but then Nature
ordained that it shall grow where euoalypt
competition breaks about even. The rea-
son for the cedar’s strength and survival
seems to be that the function of the dense
foliage (much more matted than the euca-
lypt) is to prevent gully-gouging and to
protect those shade-loving little cover-
plants which grow under its umbrella.
Another wattle of more southern habi-
tation that takes a bit of pushing about
from its big brother gums and comes up
smiling is the blackwood (A. melanoxy-
lon). It’s a splendid tree full-grown, and
lives as long as many eucalypts. And all
wattles don’t wait for fire to germinate
them. Around old Queensland or Coota-
mundra wattles you’ll find clusters of
seedlings where no fire’s been, but plenty
of moisture and rainfall have done the
job.
* « * *
“The 0.D.”: So “Lik Lik Liar” (B.
31/5/ ’44) reckons I’m a Pitt-street bush-
whacker because I said that a stallion
blows and a ram whistles when danger
appears. Does this mean that “L.L.L.”
never heard either of ’em do it?
* * * V
“Sou’-west”: Among the synthetic
cockies where “The Heel” hails from it
may be customary to yell “Hoi!” when
endeavoring to attract the attention of
anyone at some distance (B. 10/5/’44),
but I’ll guarantee that if it came to a
competition as to which call travels the
greater distance the old-time “Coo-ee”
would be heart) at least twice as far.
More, “Hoi” has a tendency to strain
the larynx, so that if employed in the
search for a lost person in the bush voices
would soon become hoarse and useless ;
the coo-ee, on the other hand, being
sounded in a quite different way, induces
no voice strain and can be used hours on
end. Fifty years ago, when one really
could get lost in the Cabbage Garden, we
knew the value of the old aboriginal call.
» * * *
“Colonial Cove”; An earlier and
equally friendly “invasion” of Australia
by Americans was started in the early
thirties of last century when Captain
Coffin, of the Samuel Wright, carried
home to New Bedford word of the har-
vest of whale to be gathered off the coasts
of New Holland. Within a couple of
years a score of New England whalers
were working the W.A. coast from the
Recherche Archipelago to Shark Bay.
Within five years numbers were reckoned
at close to a hundred. Most of these
vessels were company-owned, and worked
in fleets under the nominal command of a
commodore, who was usually the oldest
man holding a command. And be-
cause the seas then were still infested
with pirates every ship carried a.
cannon. Whaling captains were fond of
shooting, so at every sunrise and sunset
the commodore saluted the fleet at anchor
in Cockburn Sound with a cannon shot,
which was returned by every vessel
present. This led to some confusion,
as Fremantleites were accustomed to
hearing the cannon mounted on Arthur’s
Head sound a similar signal when a ship
from overseas hove in sight. But the
whalemen compensated for their fond-
ness for fireworks by their handsome
patronage of the products of the rich
Swan River fiats. To men who had
crossed half the globe on a diet of salt
junk and dried peas those Swan River
grapes must have seemed like the elixir
of life.
* * * *
“J.D.K.Z.”: Hori came over to the
farm one day, looking very worried.
When I asked him what was the trouble
he said; “T’ings ain’t too good, boss.
T’e wife she going to have t’e baby soon,
and she’s a long way to t’e hospital.” I
told him not to worry; I’d take her
in in the car when she was ready. Hori
went away beaming. Early one morning
a week or two later Hori came pounding
at the door. “You better hurry, boss, T’e
wife going to have t’e baby any time,” he
yelled excitedly. I scrambled into some
clothes, drove the car over to Hori’s place
with him jumping nervously on the seat
beside me. Exactly three minutes after
we had got Hori’s wife at the hospital
the baby—a boy—arrived. Hori wore
a huge grin when he came to tell me the
news. After congratulations I
asked him what they were going to
call it. “I fink we call him Quick-
silver ; he too sudden for us,” Hori
replied.
* * -jf
“P. Ater”: Dad had been read-
ing of lost ainfien in New Guinea
living on fat-hen and of some scien-
tisfs endorsement of its properties.
The übiquitous weed flourished on
his property, so Dad decided to try
it on the family as a vegetable. They
got it down with wry faces for the
first and last time. Then he turned
to leaves from turnips which had
gone mostly to tops, but the family
voted them even less palatable than
the fat-hen. His praising then of
the common stinging nettle as a
splendid substitute for spinach
seemed to augur of more horrors.
Dad came out one morning to see
Harry and Tom wading into the
nettles. As he said to Morgan along
the road: “These here vitamins
they’re talkin’ about serve their
purpose.”
Hi s? *
“Walkabout”: Looking for
horses one winter’s morning we
rode up to a camp where old “Cir-
cular” Kelly was still coiled up in
his blankets. I knew then why he
had got his moniker: his sleeping
possy was in the midst of an almost com-
plete circle of burning logs. It was his
method of circumventing the winter
bugbear of roasting the frontispiece while
perishing at the back. He’d borrowed the
idea from the abos.
He * * *
“Bo”: Billy Court, who had never been
referred to around Spearwood other than
as “Billycart,” Was the district’s champion
teetotaller. He had not always been that.
Time was when “Billycart,” who lived
alone in his shack on a small block and
sketchily raised vegetables when he could
spare the time from meditation down by
“the crick,” was noted for the endur-
ance, intensity and frequency of the
benders he got on. But one day he had
come back from a particularly good
bout to find reposing on his bunk
one of those fantods with which he had
come to be on friendly terms, and the
brown snake resented his effort to pat it.
A month later, after an all-in fight
for life, ■ “Billycart” had sworn off
all fermented and spirituous bever-
ages and had become the most rabid
blue-ribboner east of the Darling;
he vowed that, rather than see any
beer in his hut again, he’d burn it down.
Then, passing through the town, came a
few louts. They heard of “Billycart” and
his ways, and, half-shot, they dropped
into his hut while he was out and left
several empties lying about. Half an
hour later they were back in town talk-
ing slyly about someone’s shack going up
in smoke. Still an hour later a figure
lurched up to them in the street, waved
towards the scrub and said “Where’s thish
blanky fire goin’ to be, matesh?” It was
“Billycart.”


“C.E.”: The “actions speak louder than
words” adage meant nothing to me till
I saw old Sam explaining how he’d found
one of the stud rams bogged. “I wus
ridin’ round the ridge,” said Sam, jogging
slowly -up and down, “when I spotted
the/brute.” He stopped to peer uncer-
tainly into a comer of the hut, thrusting
his head forward and sideways, then
nodded conviction* “Yair, he was
bogged all right, so I got off an’ pulled
like blazes,” he continued, grasping a
chair and half-pulling the back off; “but
it weren’t no use. I had t’ ride back for
a shovel an’ dig him out.” Sam stopped
jogging to grasp an imaginary shovel and
start to dig. “At last I got him clear
and up on to the bank,” he went on,
dropping the shovel, grabbing at space
and hauling strenuously ; “but blow me if
he could stand up. Flop he went,
just like that, so” —here Sam put both
hands on his hips and shook his head
sorrowfully at a spot on the floor, “I
decided there weren’t nuthin’ for it but
to dig a coupla holes for his legs and
stand him in ’em.” As Sam reached once
more for his non-existent shovel there
was a movement from the fireplace.
“Aw, Sam,” drawled a weary voice,
“can’t he lie there till the mornin’?
A bloke feels kind o’ mean siftin’ down
while y’ do all the work.”
* * * *
“Herbert Dawson”: The results of the
currawong’s habit of gorging on and
subsequently regurgitating seeds and
berries (B. 26/4/’44) are very noticeable
in this part of south-west Queensland.
The pepperina-trees planted originally
round the station homesteads have now
countless offspring scattered through the
scrub and forest country miles out from
the parental ground. So rapidly are they
“Good afternoon, gentlemen! Can I show you anything?"
accumulating in areas where the soil is
light and sandy that there is little doubt
that the time is near when the ringbarker’s
axe will be employed on them.
* * *
“Old Camp”: Very well, then—these
“normal ‘ humans” who have taken
me to task may not be able to
see out in the open night. But here
is a good test of nocturnal sight,
Out fish-poaching on a W.A. estuary we
sometimes put down upwards of a
thousand yards of net, bringing it all in
again before the light of dawn. With the
knowledge that the fish inspector was out
somewhere on the not-illimitable waste of
waters looking for us, we naturally didn't
use a light. So, apart from working two
boats around when laying the net, we
were also without illumination other than
the stars when picking it up. And with-
out exception it contained, apart from
several thousand fish, hundreds of crabs
and scores of venomous catfish. Yet we
managed to extract the meshed fish and
all the unwanted stuff without overmuch
injury to our hands or to the net,
* * * *
“Gumsucker”: The point about the
toughness or otherwise as fodder of the
white cockatoo is simply age, just as it
is with all other birds, wild or domesti-
cated. It’s queer that practically every-
body given the chance to sample a barn-
yard bird anxiously inquires about the
age of the specimen, while quite indif-
ferent £S to the possible age of a bush
bird. I have sampled many varieties of
wild poultry —swan, duck, crane, emu and
even shag—but I have yet to find any-
thing tenderer than a three-months-dld
chicken and anything tougher than a
seven-year-old rooster.
* * * *
“Chuck”: There’s been a crow pinch-
ing eggs from the yards for quite a bit,
and Mum said something’d have to be
done about it; so I arranged meat scraps
and things in the yard, and set the traps
round about. It might have worked,
too, only for the old bloke getting so un-
reasonable. Blamed me because three
fowls lost their feet and the house cat
got crippled and his mong did nothing
but lie down and lick his paw. So I
abandoned the scheme and laid poison
on a sheepskin. Yair; all I. collected
from that effort was a pet magpie and a
tongue-banging. Still undaunted, I bor-
rowed a big dish from the pantry—a pre-
war unreplaceable. Mum calls it and
filled it with eggs ; then, loading the rifle,
I sat in the shed to wait. Gosh, it was
dreary. Missing that first time and blowing
a hole in the tank must have frightened the
brute, but, peeping over my book the
third day, I spotted him and let fly.
Gripes! The shot blew the dish clean
on him, and then the frightened nags,
charging the fence just there, must have
caught him on the head. Anyway, 1 got
him. Grabbing the battered dish and the
crow, I dashed for the kitchen. And were
they pleased! “There’s no doubt about
it,” said Mum solemnly, with both hands
on her hips, “when things are going
wrong, Chuck, you always do some-
thing.” Too right.
* * * *
“Blime”: Bill swung round on the sale-
yard fence and watched the tax collector
walking towards the pub. “Wonder if
it’s safe to pay that bloke me dqg tax,
he mused. “He’s such a cow t’ forget
things. Stung me twice last year, an’ I
ain’t running risks a second time.” Pres-
ently he climbed down, strolled over to
the pub, and ten minutes later was back
again. “Fixed it,” he announced. “He
didn’t have his book with him, but I paid
in front of another cove, so I have
someone t’ prove it Several weeks
later 1 came on Bill cursing. Its that
flamin’ dog bloke,” he explained. “Swears
I never paid him nothin that day in the
pub. Well, the double-crossm’ tadpole
ain’t goin’t’ put one over me this time
“No, there’s that other chap, I reminded
him. “Didn’t you say you had a wit-
ness?” “Too bloomin’ right I got a wit-
ness,” declared Bill, “only—cripes, if 1
c’d only remember who the cow is.”
* * $ *
“B. A. Ker”; The theory that man's
mastery over the horse is possible only
because the animal’s vision magnifies the
object in focus has a surprising number
of supporters, in view of the fact that
equine Judgment in jumping, or even step-
ping, over an obstacle indicates perfect
sight. I sometimes wonder whether a
horse has the mental complex of a child
in relation to vision. Recently revisiting
“The game's hard since we broke the jigger, Alf!"
the haunts of my childhood, I was sur-
prised to find Big Chiller Ashton, the
erstwhile giant of the school, grown up
to a man of slightly under average
stature. The lofty branch from which
only the bravest dived is scarcely ten feet
above the water. The creek I’ve always
remembered as being about half the
width of Sydney Harbor is not more
than 20 yards across; while the fallen
tree that served as a seat when we fished
for mud gudgeons, far from being a
dethroned forest monarch, measures a
bare foot in diameter. Only the smell
remains true to memory: earthy, damp,
yet strangely sweet and wholesome.
* * * *
“Tapioca”: The “co-belligerent” arrived
last week at Joe’s dairy farm. Faced
with the language difficulty, Joe patiently
showed the newcomer round the numer-
ous yards and pens containing pigs and
calves, separated according to their age
and sex. Next morning, after much ges-
ticulating and “no understands,” Joe was
left mopping his brow in the dairy while
Antonio set off with* a bucket of milk
to feed “the baby man moo-coos.” Yes,
he was going to the yard that held the
young steer calves.
* * * *
“P. McM.”: There’s an interesting
story behind the discovery of the “Wel-
come Stranger” nugget (B. 17/ 5/ ’44).
Deason was returning from a poor day’s
fossicking when his wheelbarrow struck
something in a cart rut. Looking down
he saw the huge nugget. He essayed to
dig it out with his bare hands, but had
to use a pick and shovel to release
it. That night he hid the nugget at home
behind his fireplace. Next morning he
took it into the bank at Dunolly (Vic.),
but the scales there were far below the
capacity required to weigh such a find,
so the local blacksmith, Archie Walls,
was called on to cut it in halves, being
rewarded with the scrapings around the
anvil. There is a monument in Moliagul
on the site of the discovery; although
the ground thereabouts was subsequently
thoroughly scoured, no more gold was
discovered. The model now in Mel-
bourne Museum was made from a de-
scription supplied by Deason.
“Sari”: Before the short-story writers
start weaving yarns around our murder-
ing trees (B. 3/5/’44), let us admit that
most of the overcoated vegetables con-
cerned in dropping firewood on suscep-
tible coves have been lovers of damp
country and watercourses. Swamp gums
appear to be special fiends. And I
wouldn’t camp under a she-oak even
though it looked good to stand a
century. Explanation is that a species
of brown longicorn beetle tunnels she-
oaks (and perhaps other swamp trees as
well) through and through. Branches that
appear sound from outside are often
hanging by a thread.
* * * *
“Herbert Dawson”: Nature’s balance
can rarely be upset with impunity. Many
landholders in the brigalow country of
Queensland have for years noted with
alarm the development to pest propor-
tions of an* originally innocuous vine-
like shrub, the “currant-bush” or “burr-
vine,” which originally in quite a modest
way inhabited the brigalow and wilga
scrubs, affording a subsidiary stock food
in droughty times and carrying the scrub
turkey’s favorite food in its currant-like,
shiny black berries. With the heavy ring-
barking of the brigalow scrubs over the
last 30 or so years, the turkeys have been
driven further back. The currant-busn
berries have been left in far greater num-
bers to fall off and deposit their seed in
the soil, and the plants themselves once
purely scrub inhabitants - have appar-
ently become accustomed to open-coun-
try conditions, with the result that now
they grow much quicker and to greater
dimensions. Some stockowners are be-
ginning to say that we are going to find
it a pest comparable with the prickly
pear before that vigorous vegetable took
the k.o. from the cactoblastis.
* * * *
“Billy See”: “Pat Ater’s” theory (B.
10/5/’44) that the dog uses its tail as a
sort of rudder when turning on the run
isn’t altogether borne out by my observa-
tions of the fox terrier. In my rabbit-
hunting days the foxy was counted quite
a good dog to start in pursuit of the
cottontails. Indeed, so excellent a pot-
filler was he that we youths never thought
of employing any other breed. More, in
those Victorian days the “sport” of rab-
bit coursing was popular, the bunny
being loosed in an enclosure of an acre
or so and run down by dogs, the first to
make the catch being the winner. In this
none but fox terriers were eligible. And
not one of those foxies had anything but
the merest stump of a tail, yet they could
turn with the greatest celerity.
* * * *
“Old-timer”: The best stockhorse I
ever threw a leg across was James
Whiskers, a 14.2 skewbald pony that
knew the game backwards. A cattle
horse, he detested sheep, and when used
to work ’em stuck out his bottom lip and
drifted stubbornly along in the rear, re-
fusing to strike up a canter unless prodded
with sharp spurs. With cattle he was a
flickering, curvetting will-o’-the-wisp, tire-
less and clever. The bigger and wilder the
steers the better he liked ’em, though him-
self not much bigger than an ordinary
steer. He had plenty of traits, the most
pronounced being an objection to drink-
ing with a rider up and the girths tight.
Ridden into water, though obviously
thirsty, he’d wait a moment or so, then
give the rider a reproachful look and let
out a deep groan. This, to those who
didn’t know him, was enough to make
them hurriedly ride him out, hop off and
loosen the girths, expecting him to have
a colicky fit or something, whereupon
he’d grin slightly, head for the water and
drink. You could walk up to him in an
open paddock with the bridle any day
except Sunday. He knew that was his
day off.
* * * *
“Esk D.”: “As dogger f’r the council,”
said Tim the Trimmer, “I get a call to
go out to Rabbit Crick where there’s bin
a she-dawg chewin’ up the jumbucks.
After takin’ a look around I figger the
bitch has a litter of pups in the rocky
basin at the bead of the crick. There s
five or six pads there showin’ tracks, so
I set me traps on all but one, knowin’
she’ll smell out the iron an’ keep to the
scent-free track. Three days 1 put in
squeezed into a granite knoll overlookin’
the pad before I get a sight of her. She
pauses to sniff the breeze in easy range
of me rifle, an’ I let fly.” “You got her,
I said, knowing Tim’s prowess with
the .303. “No, I didn’t,” he said.
“I thought of them pups without a
mother jist in time to jerk the sights ort
her as I fired.” “Must’ve been one of
your soft days,” I commented. “Soft, me
eye!” said Tim. “I went back an’ got
her in the winter when the cockies’d put
20 quid on her scalp—an’ a fiver each f’r
the growed pups.”
“GOING SOUTH.”
A warm wind in the Leichhardt pines is whis-
pering of rain;
The sergeant working on his kit uplifts a
song of cheer:
“Old mates, we saw the wet go out and now it
comes again.
But we’re heading South tomorrow, for the
North-bound troops are here.
It’s no ‘drum’—we’re going South;
At long last we’re heading South,
Where there’s warm love and cold beer at our
home towns in the South.”
The rich green moss is on the road that winds
through giant teaks,
The hothouse air is heavy with a dank smell
of decay, ,
The vapors from the valleys shroud the ranges
ragged peaks
As the battle-weary regiment moves down
towards the bay.
They’re embarking for the South,
For relief has come from South,
And their dream things will be real things when
they’re resting in the South.
The man who dwarfs his slant-eyed guard is
looking at the sky.
Regardless of the battleplanes out there
manoeuvering;
His stern brown face has softened and a light
is in his eye
As he watches in the distance homing wild-
fowl on the wing;
And he says “They’re flying South,
Lucky blighters going South —
God in heaven speed the hour when we, too,
will travel South.”
W.A.
JACK SORENSEN.


Australian, Mercantile, Land & Finance
Company, Limited
(INCORPORATED IN ENGLAND IN 1863)
WOOL, FAT STOCK, STORE AND STUD STOCK,
PRODUCE AND PROPERTY SALESMEN
General Manager for Australia: R. SINCLAIR SMITH,
ADVANCES MADE ON GRAZING PROPERTIES, ON STOCK, AND ON
CONSIGNMENTS OF WOOL, SKINS, HIDES, TALLOW, ETC.
LICENSED AUCTIONEERS, STOCK AND STATION AGENTS.
SYDNEY OFFICE; A. M. MURDOCH, Manager.
ALSO AT MELBOURNE, BRISBANE, NEWCASTLE, WAGGA, HENTY, HAY, MOREE,
TOWNSVILLE, CHARLEVILLE, BUENOS AIRES, LONDON.
GENERAL AGENTS IN NEW SOUTH WALES FOR NORTHERN ASSURANCE CO. LTD
; ’ ; : /.}<
CERTAIN DEATH
to RABBITS
dsf
k
(Regd.)
The safest, surest, and most economical solution of the rabbit
menace.
The only way to carry the maximum number of sheep is to clear
out all the rabbits.
SAVES
MANPOWER
“IT’S THE GAS THAT KILLS THEM”
BUZACOTT-WOLSELEY PTY..LTD.,
throughout Australia. 7-11 MARKET STREET, SYDNEY.
aWMo
iooud
. V
SJJHOV'SAI
100% Australian>made
from Australian Material
Wire Netting
Wire Nails
Our Netting and Other Products are
known throughout the Commonwealth
as of the highest standard.
LOOK for Our MARKER in
every Roll of Netting.
LYSAGHT’S
Fencing Wire
«W» v -AW>'.-v/.: ..
*...«»**s»*
- ■
JP
%*»
ESTABLISHED 1884
Barbed Wire
Zinc Oxide
QUALITY GUARANTEED.
Obtainable from all the Leading
Merchants, Storekeepers and Agents.
Lysaght Bros. & Co. Pty., Ltd.
Head Office: 17-19 Bridge Street, Sydney.
SPECIFY "LYSAGHT'S" WIRE, WIRE NETTING, ETC.
THE MAN ON
THE LAND
"DON'T WORRY, I'M SENDING IT TO
GRAZCOS."
Hogget Wools.
“Jumbuck”: There are two kinds of
hoggets, the real one that was not shorn
as a lamb and the “shurled” one which,
as a two-tooth, has its second shearing.
There’s a deal of difference in appear-
ance and often in the value of the two
wools, and it is essential to keep them
separate. When lambing has been pro-
longed and a percentage of the drop is
too small to shear as lambs, or where there
are two lambings a year, these two dis-
tinct types of wool will be found. Wool
from true hoggets will carry a curly,
pointed, spiral tip; that from “shurled”
hoggets will have a blocky tip like the
wool of older sheep and show uniformity
in staple length. Draft the hoggets before
shearing to keep the wools separate.
Wool from real hoggets is invariably
of softer handle, more attractive and
lighter in condition than the other. Skirt-
ing of real hogget fleeces will need closer
attention than the rest of the clip, as,
owing to the tendency of younger sheep
to seek the best feed, they collect more
foreign matter, such as twigs, burrs, seed,
etc. These are generally found about the
neck, breech, breast and points, so deeper
skirting is necessary. Few or no class-
ing difficulties can arise if the hoggets
are drafted before shearing, but if they
are shorn as a mixed mob it’s the owner’i
own fault if Id. or so per pound is lost
through the inability of the classer to
keep the two types separate.
To Stop Bloat.
“Myrrhee”: Feed dry chaff or hay be-
fore putting stock on luscious green stuff,
particularly clover or lucerne. If a beast
goes down with bloat, puncture the
paunch with trocar and canula or a knife
and make sure the hole is kept open for
the gases to escape. Make the puncture
at the highest point of the swelling,
which is usually on the left side in the
centre of an imaginary triangle formed
by the hip-bone and the top and bottom
of the last rib. Stab downward and
slightly forward.
Relief in early stages of bloat is given
by a drench: One level teaspoon Condy’s
crystals in a quart of water. For more
advanced cases six to eight tablespoons
turps, two tablespoons cloudy ammonia,
mixed with a quart of milk or thin gruel.
Belching can be encouraged by wiping
a stick dipped in Stockholm tar on the
back of the tongue or soaking a piece
of rope in tar and tying it in the mouth.
For chronic cases use a halter with a
straight bit made from No. 6 fencing
wire to prevent gulping.
Winter Vegetables.
“Pat Ater”: In frost-free spots winter
beans, peas, tomatoes, lettuce, early white
onions, broad beans and carrots can be
grown. Main needs of these crops are
good drainage, light soil suitably manured
and a warm, sheltered aspect.
Lime or dolomite should be used at
jib. to the square yard, dug in Sin. deep.
Add humus, animal manure or leaf
mould, unless the soil is very rich. Run
the fertiliser in 3in.-wide bands along the
rows where seeds will be sown. Mark them
off. A good handful to the yard will do.
Sow early tomatoes under glass to
hurry germination. When large enough
move to warm, secluded positions. Onions
are not so fussy. Try White Barlettas
or Early Hunter River White. Warmth
and water will rush them to quick matu-
rity. Not too much manure but plenty
of lime for onions. Keep weeds down,
hoe regularly, have a foot or more be-
"If you mean the temperature has reached a point where it causes irritation,
inertia and aridity of the epiglottis, whyinell don't you say so instead
of merely remarking 'ot'?"
tween rows and space the young plants
(with tips nipped) Sin. apart.
Have all rows running north and south,
with enough space between them to work
and for the sun to reach every plant.
Keep the topsoil broken finely after rain
or sprinkler ; don’t water until necessary,
which is usually when an inch of the top
is dry. Lettuce need blood and bone ;
broad beans super, and blood and bone.
Both should have plenty of lime. Carrots
need fertile soil, but no new manure.
Rely on deeply-mixed fertiliser and blood
and bone unless the bed recently grew let-
tuce, cabbage or spinach and was heavily
manured.
Beans and peas should be sown 2in. to
3in. apart, 2in. deep, with 18in. between
rows; tomatoes (staked) 18in. apart, 3ft.
between rows ; lettuce, 7in. to 10in., 18in.
between rows ; broad beans, 6in. apart,
2in. to 3in. deep, 2ft. or more between
rows.
A Veges. Show.
“8.C.”: Groom the cabbage and feed
up the carrot; comb out the beetroot's
tail and attend to the broccoli’s teeth.
Sydney R.A.S. is to stage a big vegetable
show in early December, probably in the
Town Hall. There’ll be sections for all
sorts of growers, from the bloke with a
cut-down kero.-tin on his windowsill in
King’s Cross to the cove who roots out
his spuds with a bulldozer in the wide
and wondering west. The R.A.S. is
backed by N.S.W. Department of Agri-
culture and Cpmmonwealth Food Con-
trol in the effort; and at the show there’ll
be displays of machinery and talks on
everything, from Scotch-hobbling aphids
to the psychology of cucumbers.
Sugar-country Fires.
“Plane Creek”; In Queensland cane
districts grassfires are likely from July to
December, when the cane is being har-
vested and the paddocks full of dry
trash.
Backfiring has its disadvantages. The
wind may not be right, your own fire
may get out of hand or you may control
it on your property but add to the diffi-
culties of neighbors. I was a “burn-back-
at-the-last-moment” enthusiast, and, be-
cause my place is easily encircled by fire,
invariably had a devilish week in mid-
October, and frequently lost cane or
bananas.
Start burning-off from the cut fire-
breaks while the grass is half-green. It
may burn fiercely under warm sunlight
when quite green at the top, but the fire
will go out at dusk. Enlarge the breaks
to a safety limit. Sometimes heavy frosts
kill the grass overnight. Be careful; it
will burn next day. Don’t burn-off on
windy nights. Hillside fires are more apt
to burn on through the night than fires
on the flats.
Long before much of the grass is dry
enough there are patches of dry, inflam-
mable grass on poorer soils. These can
be burned with safety, and green grass
may shoot on ’em. At any rate, burning
will put non-inflammable acres between
you and the impending fires. Encourage
the neighbors to take similar precautions.
Grassfires wouldn’t be so dangerous if
farmers would co-operate reasonably.
Paspalum and Kikuyu.
“Myrrhee”: Both are coming into
favor in southern Victoria for grazing and
as firebreaks. They grow well and will
stand up to hard feeding. Paspalum is
established from seed sown in spring, and
will make a consolidated sward in a year
or two. Kikuyu is a hardy, summer-
growing grass established by planting
rooted runners in early spring. The
runners could be planted in furrows when
ploughing firebreaks.
Given warmth and moisture Kikuyu
becomes most aggressive, and, although
the milder climate and relatively dry
summers of the Western District are not
conducive to best growth, Kikuyu is
tenacious under the conditions there.
Stock seek and graze it heavily, leaving a
close green sward, an excellent firebreak.
Kikuyu runners are best planted in
alternate plough furrows about 4ft. apart.
After a time a limited area of the grass
will provide all the runders needed for
extensive plantings.
Hints for the Farm.
“Sheepo”: The picking of skirtings is
essential for best results in spite of
“Shive’s” grower (B. 17/5/’44) who re-
ceived an average of 17d. per pound for
unpicked pieces in 1942 as against an
average of 15fd. per pound for picked
pieces in 1943. Isolated cases do occur
under the appraisement scheme, just as
they did when wool was sold by public
auction, but if a survey was made it would
be found that, year in, year out, carefully
picked skirtings always return a higher
average per pound than unpicked.
“A.J.8.”: That was a good recipe for
bacon-curing (B. 3/ 5 / *44), but an essen-
tial item omitted was removal of the
bladebone. All bacon-curers remove it
because its junction with the collarbone
secretes an essential oil that induces de-
composition.
“Ninety-nine”: Portions of the bovine
carcass and viscera form a valuable pig
food if cooked, but if fed raw the health
of the pigs may be endangered. For ex-
ample, when an animal is affected with
t.b. the primary lesions in the organs,
being small, may escape detection. Al-
though the carcass may not be grossly
affected, there is real danger to pigs,
especially young ones, if fed with un-
cooked material from a diseased beast.
“E. 2”: Most hacksaws are unsuited
for cutting lengthwise for any distance ;
the back of the frame won’t follow. A
good frame can be made from a hand-
saw that has had its day. One socket
for hacksaw blade may be brazed at the
fore end, the other bolted through a slot
for tightening some distance back ac-
cording to the length of blade used. Set,
if any, should be hammered off handsaw.
“Jesmond”: Mechanisation of clearing
(B. 12/4/’44). Here (Vic.) thousands ol
acres have been cleared by heavy cater-
pillar tractors, disc ploughs and rotary
hoes. Tractors roll down heavy scrub,
such as ti-trees up, to,l2in, in diameter,
and at the same time tear up the ground
with ploughs or rotary hoes. Two men
can easily do the work of 20 or 30 mat-
tock-swingers and make a better job ol
it. On the block next door two men with
tractor and logger pulled out 17 gums
cut and stacked them in 7ft. lengths and
piled up the roots for burning in less than
seven hours.


French Firing Squad.
(N.Y. “Times” editorial comment.)
UNCABLED ADDITIONS
The trial and execution of Pierre
Pucheu have raised doubts among
Frenchmen themselves in Algiers, not
because they are soft-hearted about
treason, but because they question the
wisdom of the procedure at this time and
the legality of the verdict.
Pucheu was tried before a Court whose
presiding Judge himself had once taken
an oath of allegiance to the Vichy Gov-
ernment. Some of the charges against
him were dropped because the evidence
which might have supported them is
available only in France. Pucheu claimed
that other evidence, likewise not avail-
able, would have helped him.
Considerations of this kind raise
doubts. So does the spectacle of a
French firing squad already at work
before Frenchmen have reconstituted a
French Government on the soil of
France.
It goes without saying that the traitors
should and will be brought to judgment.
But the course of the trial and the execu-
tion of Pucheu argue that this judgment
will square best with the conscience of
France if it is given when France herself
is free again, when all the evidence is
in, and when the French people them-
selves have been able to form the proper
civilian tribunals for such decisions.
Case for Finland.
(From London “Nineteenth Century” editor’s
comment.)
It is not true that Finland took advan-
tage of the occasion offered by the Ger-
man attack on Russia in June, 1941, to
avenge the defeat she suffered at the
hands of the Red Army in the previous
year and to recover her lost territories.
Finland was not the aggressor —she was,
for the second time, the victim of aggres-
sion.
Under the Treaty of Peace signed be-
tween Finland and Russia on March 13,
1940, the new frontiers were drawn not
only to make the defence of the Gulf of
Finland and of Leningrad easier, but also
to render Finland wholly unable to resist
renewed invasion. Although Russia had
declared herself satisfied with the treaty
she profited by the helplessness to which
Finland had been reduced to impinge
upon Finnish domestic affairs and Fin-
nish foreign policy.
For example, Finland attempted to pro-
mote a defensive association of the Nordic
countries which would have drawn Fin-
land, Norway and together
against Germany. Under Russian pres-
sure Finland was obliged to desist. The
personnel in the Russian Legation at
Helsinki and in the Russian consulates
throughout Finland was numerous far
beyond normal needs, and there was con-
stant interference in Finnish internal
affairs. Demands not made in the peace
negotiations were made when Finland
was unable to resist them. Amongst these
were the demilitarisation of the Aaland
Isles under Russian control, a preponder-
ant Russian share in the management
of the Petsamo nickel mines, the surren-
der of rolling stock beyond the amount
stipulated in the treaty, compensation for
goods removed from the ceded areas, the
cession of the Vallenkoski Rapids (which
were entirely on the Finnish side of the
frontier). All Finnish attempts to pro-
mote trade with Russia and to promote
a better understanding in the realms of
science and of letters were rebuffed.
When Mr. Molotov was in Berlin in
November, 1940, he demanded that
Russia have a free hand in Finland. The
demand was refused by the German
Government. It is not surprising that the
Finns, who have little sympathy with the
Germans —and still less for National
Socialism —should have felt some relief.
When Russia was herself invaded —on
June 22, 1941 —she at once resumed her
active hostility to Finland. On that same
day the Russians bombed the Aaland
Islands and attempted to bomb two
Finnish warships. On the 23rd Abo
(Turka) was bombed by 24 Russian aero-
planes. The open city of Willmanstrand
was bombed on the same day—so was
the Malm aerodrome near Helsinki. The
Russian Government was asked for an
explanation, but gave no answer.
Finland had herself refrained from any
offensive action. On the 24th the Finnish
Minister in London assured Mr. Eden
that Finland would remain on the defen-
sive. But by the 26th more than ten
Finnish towns had been bombed by the
Russians and had suffered heavy casual-
ties. On that day the Risto
Ryfi, broadcast a declaration that Finland
would fight.
The Finns had been utterly exhausted
by the previous war with Russia and
were in no mood for yet another struggle.
They decided to fight in self-defence—
for the second time. They limited their
military operations to the recovery of the
districts that had been wrested from them
in the previous year. They did not take
part in the offensive against Leningrad
—they deny that their guns have bom-
barded Leningrad.
Had the course of events been fore-
seen it is probable that Finland would
have refrained from becoming a
belligerent. The rapid advance of the
Germans relieved the Russian pressure on
Finland. Subsequent German reverses
increased that pressure once more. Fin-
land is entirely dependent upon Germany
for grain and cannot make a separate
peace with Russia unless she can replace
her imports from Germany by imports
from other countries. All Finns want
peace—in this respect there is no differ-
ence between Finnish parties—and all
would accept peace terms that would
allow the Finns to survive as an indepen-
dent nation. What they fear is that Fin-
land will be occupied by the Red Army,
that the elite of the country will be de-
ported to Arctic and Asiatic Russia, just
as the 61ite of the Baltic States, of
Eastern Poland and of Bessarabia was,
and that the country will then be an-
nexed after a spurious plebiscite—as the
Baltic States and Eastern Poland were.
Finland’s case has been made the more
desperate by the general assumption that
Finland was the aggressor and that she
is a “Fascist country.” In so far as her
Government is autocratic it was made so
in a successful attempt to overcome the
Lappo movement, which bore a certain
resemblance to Italian Fascism. If the
words “democratic” and “progressive”
mean anything they apply to modern
Finland.
Loans from U.S.A.
(“ Wall-street Journal” comment .)
Many of those who discuss world
economic conditions of the future seem
to regard as a foregone conclusion a great
post-war movement of American capital
to the four quarters of the globe, for
long-term„ investment. The beneficial
results thereof are described with high
confidence. Wild places of the earth
stand in need of railways, roads, mines
and factories. Americans know how to
make these things and can supply the
materials and equipment for their con-
struction. Hardly another country will
be able to do so on an important scale.
So runs the tale, in serial form.
It is no doubt desirable for many
reasons that the international investment
of capital be resumed. But there is no
certainty either that there will be a great
reservoir or even a goodly stream of un-
invested capital in the United States or
anywhere else at the war’s end, or that
the owners of capital will be at once
ready to commit it to the backward lands.
A great deal has happened during the
past'quarter of a century to render the
credit standing of most Governments and
their respective nationals questionable.
Occupy Japan?
(Condensed extract from a “Harper’s Maga-
zine” article by Nathaniel Peffer.)
The whole idea is fantastic and had
better be dropped. Occupation of Japan
is not necessary for our purpose and is
not practicable. Even if it can be im-
posed at the beginning it can be sustained
only at a human cost that will be harrow-
ing and self-defeating in the end.
What is it that we want with respect to
Japan? What is it that we have to be
sure of? Only that it be so thoroughly
crushed in defeat as to be beyond capa-
bility of recovery for a long period —so
long a period that the rest of the world
can have time to regain equilibrium and,
if possible, establish an international
system or at least an alignment of power
that will prevent future infractions of
international decency.
That is, if not all we want, at any rate
all we need. A democratic system in Japan
would be added assurance or insurance.
So also would be the disestablishment of
militarism and the inculcation of a new
scale of values, one that did not elevate
the martial virtues above all other quali-
ties and the warrior caste above all other
social classes. But these are not indis-
pensable to us. All that is indispensable
is that Japan be unable to embark on
further aggressive adventures, no matter
what its internal condition and the
thought of its people may be.
We are now compensating tor our
previous underestimation of Japan by
overestimating it. Therefore we are need-
lessly complicating the question of the
post-war settlement.
False analogies are being drawn from
the quick recovery of Germany after
1918. Actually Germany’s recovery was
not so quick: it took 20 years. Further-
more, Germany had less to recover from
than Japan will have. Its soil was un-
touched. Its physical structure was left
sound. Its industrial plant was worn but
intact. And then we of the victor coun-
tries, America and Great Britain in par-
ticular, lent Germany the money with
which to replace its worn plant with the
newest and most efficient implements.
Japan will have to rebuild, not renew.
For if we can defeat Japan at all it will
be only after at least the modernised, in-
dustrialised part of the country h as been
devastated. .
I am assuming now, as I think it can
be assumed, that we shall not make a
compromise peace, that we shall continue
until Japan sues for peace on any terms.
And Japan will not do this until it has
felt American blows on its national body.
All Japanese energies, therefore, will
Like most Americans, I had
heard of the Indian problem, of a
movement for Indian independence
and vague references to the aspira-
tions of Indians. During 15 months
spent in India I have never met a
man who referred to himself as an
Indian. I have met Hindus, Mus-
lims, Sikhs, Parsees, Indian Chris-
tians, et al., people who describe
themselves even more specifically
as Brahmins, Marwaris, Untouch-
ables, Pathans, Rajputs, Kashmiris,
Punjabis, and so on ad infinitum.
Like most Americans, I had the
mistaken impression that a man
named Gandhi spoke for hundreds
of millions of Indians whose only
impediment to the realisation of a
free unity was the existence of a
British Imperial Government. The
most important single fact about
India —the fact that it has always
been, and still is, riven by
geographical provincialism, religious
allegiances and caste distinctions—
has never been given real publicity
in America. It does not suit the
purposes of paid nationalist propa-
ganda.—Peter Muir, in his book
“This Is India.”
have to be expended for at least 10 to
20 years just in rehabilitation, first physi-
cal rehabilitation and then economic re-
habilitation, Japan will not be ready for
more adventures in 20 years even if we
never set foot in Tokyo. And unless we
give it financial help in the form of
credits —which can be made conditional
on good behavior —it will not begin, to
attain real strength for twice 20 years.
False analogies are drawn also from
Japan’s almost miraculous rise to power
between 1870 and 1920. That was
brought about by a fortuitous combina-
tion of peculiar circumstances that* will
not recur. It constitutes an almost unique
chapter in political history. Japan was
the first Oriental country to modernise
and industrialise, and thereby it acquired
potentialities of power while all round it
lay countries still somnolent, unchanging
and weak.
Now there will be China, modernised
and industrialising too, responding to the
drive of nationalism, possessing strength
and conscious of its strength. There will
be Russia, now fully industrialised and
extended in modernisation and poten-
tiality of economic and military power
across Asia to eastern Siberia. Under
no conceivable combination of circum-
stances are both those countries likely
again to fall into helplessness or negligi-
bility simultaneously—as they must if
Japan is ever again to be able to run
riot with ease as it has for 35 years.
Whatever it aspires to do it will have to
do with circumspection, and then only
with the consent or partnership of its
neighbors. All this apart from the fact
that Great Britain and America will not
be negligible in the near future.
In short, no matter what happens,
Japan cannot be again what it was in the-
past 30 years. Indeed, it is more likely
that Japan’s sun has set, not to rise again
in this period in history. It had a fleeting
moment of resplendent glory that was as
false as it was dazzling. We are worry-
ing overmuch about the future Japan.
There may be no need to worry at all if
she is completely beaten now.
German Morale.
(As assessed from Sweden by veteran U.S.
foreign correspondent Albin E. Johnson in
an “American Mercury" article, here condensed.)
What follows, based on careful inquiry
and known facts, represents an objective
attempt to sum up the popular feeling
inside Germany today.
The people of Germany as a whole are
apathetic. It is the apathy resulting from
fifteen years of Nazi repression and in-
doctrination ; eleven years of Nazi domi-
nation and lack of the normal comforts
and pleasures of life ; at least seven years
of rationing of vital necessities ; five years
of war and two years of extreme want.
But your average German is a well-
disciplined person.
The impression abroad that the coun-
try has reconciled itself to defeat is at
least exaggerated. Dependable infor-
mants insist that there is singularly little
defeatism even among the bombed-out,
or Hitler’s Children, as they are called
in Austria and other regions to which
they are sent. Those who have lost
everything feel that they have nothing
to gain by a loser’s peace ; their one hope
is a victorious Germany. Those who still
have businesses and possessions believe
that defeat will strip them of everything,
perhaps even of their lives.
While prepared privately to admit that
they cannot win, very few Germans even
today believe that they will not get a com-
promise peace. They expect, at worst, a
draw. Even if the United Nations were
to define unconditional surrender, indi-
cating a tolerable existence after the Nazis
are overthrown, probably few Germans
would believe it; year after year they
have been conditioned to accept all Allied
promises with deep scepticism.
The capacity for physical suffering is
far from exhausted in Germany. Ration-
ing of all things is incredibly severe. Yet
the food distributed is ample to sustain
life, and other consumer goods are avail-
able to an extent sufficient to maintain
a very low but tolerable standard of exist-
ence. People are hungry, very hungry,
in some places. They complain and
grumble, but the discontent does not as
yet anywhere reach the dimensions of
a protest.
The authorities have been smart in
making good on promises. When an an-
nouncement is made that certain com-
modities, or extra rations, are available
and people queue up to receive them, the
promised goods are always on tap.
In the rural districts the people do
fairly well for food. Villagers can reach
the farms for bartering. The farmers
do not necessarily tell the authorities
every time a hen lays an egg, or every
time they trap a hare or shoot a deer.
They do not forget their friends and
relatives in the towns and cities. Also,
they are not above some discreet trading
in the black markets.
As to the Nazi party, so far as quali-
fied observers have been able to report,
there are no serious schisms in its ranks,
at least in the inner circle that includes
Hitler, Goring, Himmler, Goebbels, Ley,
Von Ribbentrop and their intimates.
When the Nazis say that what happened
politically in Italy cannot happen in Ger-
many, they are not merely boasting.
Hitler is still the keystone of the Nazi
structure and the others know that he
is indispensable. They believe that if he
falls they fall. Despite the cruel years.
Hitler retains the devotion of many mil-
lions, especially women and children.
A surprising number of Germans still
believe, returning visitors agree, that
Hitler and his party can do no wrong.
The Army and the Gestapo are Ger-
many’s backbone, but the Nazi party is
still its brain. To expect the Reichswehr
to overthrow Hitler at the present stage
is sheer self-delusion. The Prussians hier-
archy is there, but it is now a Nazi-
Prussian hierarchy. Hitler and his asso-
ciates have out-Prussia’d the Prussians.
There is no reason for crediting the
belief, widespread outside Germany, that
it is Hitler who is held responsible for
the reverses suffered in Russia and Africa,
or that the General Staff considers him
to blame. The General Staff has never
been subservient to Hitler’s intuitions,
according to neutral military observers ;
on the whole, they declare, he has im-
posed his military views on the generals
no more and no less than the civilian
heads of other belligerent nations. The
generals, they say, feel themselves in the
same boat with the Nazis even to a larger
degree than their kind were in the same
boat with the Kaiser in the first World
War.
In short, the Nazi party is still quite
intact; the German people, though far
from ardent, are still united behind the


:
m
o''£i
.j?i ' : 'C-K : V:V-'-
••
PT»1«
fl lßlV^ s
&
IS OUR BUSINESS
Statistics issued by the
Civil Aviation Department
show that Australian civil
airlines flew 7,516,740 miles
during the year ending
30/9/43 . . . 4,042,520 of these miles, or 53.7%, were
Flown by the planes of Australian National Airways.
A.N.A. has established the largest network of internal
airlines operated by any company in the world. Such
proven leadership justifies Australia's participation with
any other Nation in the great future of post-war aviation.
m
fill l
BUY VICTORY BONDS.
USTRALI AN
TIONAL 111 WAYS
FIRST IN PEACE
PTY. LTD.
FIRST IN WAR
. . FIRST IN FUTURE
10 for 1/1
20 for 2/2
Always fresh • •
Always smooth
KIN
i
Carreras Ltd 154 Years* Reputation for Quality
A foolish spender is a traitor.
The right place for your money
is in £lO National Savings Bonds!
5064 9
party; the Army still believes it will not
lose, even if it cannot win the war. To
r n , ~ t£ ■ „
the mass of Germans the superiority
of the German soldier is axiomatic, the
superiority of the German race a kind of
religion ; and the ability of the people
in bombed cities to “take it” has no.
been disproved.
More to the point is whether German
industry can “take it.” The consensus
of opinion, among foreigners and Ger-
mans who can be reached and who will
talk in neutral places like Stockholm, is
that Germany reached her normal pro-
duction peak a year ago. She has con-
siderable reserves and the exploitation of
occupied territories has been intensified,
Effective though bombing has been, it is
assumed by returning observers that the
Nazis have taken care to disperse many
of their vital war industry plants.
The writer feels justified in stating,
from all that can be gathered here, that
fol U d 6 ed?SiThor^eU a Xte™.
German explosions are probably delud-
ing themselves. There is only one safe
conclusion justified: Germany must be
beaten in combat. Not decay of morale
but complete military defeat will take the
Germans out of this war.
U.S. Can’t Feed All.
[In a report in March U.S. War Food
Administrator Jones stated: “In considering
the responsibility of the United States in help-
ing to meet food requirements of the United
Nations, it should be kept in mind that the
United States is not the food basket of the
world.” He added that, as food demands of
occupied territories increase, “food production
will need to be increased in other United
Nations.” The following, on the same theme,
is from an address by Rep. Roy W. Woodruff
in Congress.]
“Every time we read about army ad-
vances or about army withdrawals there
is another side to the picture which is
little appreciated, namely, the utter de-
struction of homes, the devastation of all
means of livelihood, of obtaining daily
bread.
“Such destruction becomes so vast as
to be incomprehensible even to those
helping to bring it about.
“It is, indeed, a practical question that
must be faced: who is responsible for
keeping the millions of people alive?
“The world cannot let them die.
“It is, of course, obvious that if the
fate of the nations into whose country
our armies move is wholesale starvation,
in addition to complete destruction of
their homes and means of existence, then
a cry of wrath is likely to rise against us.
“If you look at a map of Europe indi-
cating the area occupied by the Germans
and compare it with that small strip of
land we have so far been able to wrest
from them in southern Italy you will
realise that as our invasion armies move
forward toward Berlin we shall be con-
fronted with problems of saving so many
millions—even hundreds of millions —of
people from famine that I am at a loss
to see how America alone can possibly
handle such a responsibility.
“Yet, so many, believing the extrava-
gant promises being made by our repre-
sentatives, will stretch out their hands
toward ys begging for their daily bread,
of which they will be deprived by mili-
tary operations.
“I wish I could give you a satisfactory
solution of that question, but I admit
that I stand appalled before such a prob-
lem.
“We may as well recognise the horrible
tragedy we shall face.”
Dragnet Digest.
(Condensed from various acknowledged
sources .)
Dr. Benes has negotiated a treaty with Russia
on behalf of Czechoslovakia. But as he is not
the de jure President of Czechoslovakia, having
resigned from that office in 1938 —and, indeed,
as the Czechoslovak Republic has no de jure
existence—it seems doubtful whether the treaty
is legally binding. Unlike the Polish, the Yugo-
slav and the other Allied Governments in exile,
the Czechoslovak Government has no consti-
tutional status. — Editor London “Nineteenth
Century.’ 1 ’
* * * *
A soldier who has been a long time in the
line has a “look” in his eyes that anyone with
practice can discern. It’s a look of dullness,
eyes that look without seeing, eyes that see
without transferring any response to the mind.
It’s a look that is the display room for the
thoughts that lie behind it—exhaustion, lack
of sleep, tension for 100 long, weariness that
is too great, fear beyond fear, misery to the
point of numbness, a look of surpassing in-
difference to anything anybody can do to you.
It’s a look I dread to see on men. — Ernie Pyle;
war correspondent in Italy.
* * * *
“Russia will be a good deal to blame for the
faulty peace because she doesn’t want a World
Government and nothing less will secure world
peace.”— Bertrand Russell.
* * * *
Though Germany is defeated in the War, she
may in the long run have done such lasting
injury to her neighbors that she will emerge
from the war the strongest nation in the Con-
tinent west of the Soviet Union. If positive
measures are not taken to deal with this fact,
Germany may recover from defeat much sooner
than liberated Europe can recover from German
occupation.— Walter Lippmann; N.Y. “Herald
Tribune.”
* * * *
Out of all the disagreement two things at
least should be clear to all. One is that the
United States will fight until the final defeat
of the Axis. The other is that the United
States will underwrite no settlement, and par-
ticipate in no international organisation, based
on balance-of-power and domination of small
nations by the large.— N.Y. “World-Telegram , v
* * * *
In the book The Road to Serfdom Professor
Hayek, of the London School of Economics,
has warned “socialists of all parties” that plan-
ning leads to the surrender not only of eco-
nomic but also political freedom. Hayek, an
ex-Austrian arguing from his deep knowledge
of German political philosophy, maintains that
“at least nine out of ten of the lessons which
our most vociferous reformers are so anxious
we should learn from this war are precisely
the lessons which the Germans did learn from
the last war.” He points out that this re-
; suited in sweeping away Parliamentary Govern-
ment and substitution of an economic dictator.
—London correspondent “Wall-street Journal.”
* * * *
What both the British and American people
wish to know is whether the Atlantic Charter
still applies, and, if not, what takes its place
as a standard of conduct and a frame of refer-
ence for the organisation of victory. The
Atlantic Charter is the only declaration of
general principles the war has produced, and
until it is defined or superseded by a statement
of aims to which all the victors can subscribe
and carry out in action, there will continue to
be doubt, uneasiness and danger of division.
New consultations on the highest plane are cer-
tainly in order. — N.Y. “Times."
* * * *
The U.S. Navy estimates that each of its air
pilots costs $31,500 for perfecting him as a
flier; the average time required is 18 months.
The Navy used to turn out a pilot in 13
months, but now the emphasis is on quality.
N.Y. “Herald Tribune.”
* * * *
In the Atlantic Charter Mr. Roosevelt and
Mr. Churchill put out a false prospectus. It
as a business firm they had sold stock on such
representations they could have been arrested
for fraud under the laws of their respective
countries. — Chicago “Tribune”
* * * *
Russia has made it plain that it will make
very heavy claims of reparation uppn Ger-
many. Russian radiocasts, embracing cal-
culations made by Prof. Eugene Varga, a Hun-
garian economist who has been teaching in
Russia, have set the possible Soviet repara-
tions claims at anything up to $800,000,000,000.
In view of the ironclad firmness of the Russian
attitude as such matters today, the prospects
are that Germany on this occasion will be made
to pay substantial reparations and that the rest
of the Allies will be disposed to show equal
firmness. Professor Varga figured that since
Germany spent up to $6,000,000,000 a year for
armament in pre-war years, it could make a.
substantial contribution to the rehabilitation of
other nations. He has calculated that recon-
struction in Russia would require the work
of 10,000,000 men for 10 years.— “ Christian
Science Monitor.”
* * * *
Anyone who wants to see a first-class row
in the U.S.A. need only go out to the people
with a serious proposition that Americans must
pledge themselves to fight to protect a free and
independent Palestine. — U.S. columnist West-
brook Pegler.
# * * *
About 100,000 men and officers are believed
to have been sacrificed on Japanese ships
against a U.S. naval loss of 41,000. Japanese
naval personnel is believed to have expanded to
about three times what it was at the beginning
of the war. Our own has been multiplied about
15 times. Tire fire-power of our fleet has been
tripled. In every type of fighting craft we are
not only superior to Japan but increasing that
superiority.— N.Y. “Times.’'’ ,
,** ' * *
The Atlantic Charter is not free from
obscurity, self-contradiction and fustian. But it
does embody a humane and liberal spirit; it
does, whether adequately or not, represent
certain ideals for which the Allied Powers be-
lieve themselves to be fighting. No peace
could conform absolutely to principles so
general, but to impose a peace in clear violation
of those principles (whatever one may think of
them) would also be dishonor —dishonor that
would shake the faith, still very strong through-
out the world, in the pledged word of England
in particular and of the United States. — Editor
London “Nineteenth Century.”
*** * *
Mr. Roosevelt is not favorable to the idea
that France should get back intact the empire
that she gave up without making an effort to
defend. That fact, more than any other,
influences the President’s attitude toward the
De Gaulle Government, which, if recognised,
could lay claim to pre-war possessions. French
possessions in Africa and in the Pacific have
great strategic importance to U.S. Mr. Roose-
velt does not forget that French Indo-China
was quickly turned over to Japan, with harm-
ful effects for us. — “United States News.”
* * =k *
There is growing a question of whether a
mass exodus of people, trying to escape from
Europe, will occur after the present war. In
Congress, the immigration laws are being
watched with emphasis apparently to centre on
seeing that there is no relaxation of the laws.
In the executive departments, there is a survey
of possible outlets for Europeans who may
want to leave Europe—outlets in Latin America,
in Africa, in Canada, in Australia and in other
parts of the world. This search is not proving
very promising.— “United States News.”
* * * H=
White House officials are worried by con-
tinued evidence that Italians in the part of
Italy occupied by U.S.-Britain are eating less
and faring less well than Italians in areas
occupied by the Germans. The propaganda
effect of this situation is not so good.— “ United
States New's”
* * * *
You read about a convoy crossing, but you
have not the slightest idea what it is really like
until you come over with one. The popular
conception is that of a force of destroyers and
carriers constantly fighting it out with wolfish
submarines. Actually a successful convoy is
one that never sees, though it detects, the
enemy. A successful convoy pushes U-boats
back under the surface but does not tangle
with them unless an engagement is forced on
it. The idea is to get troops there —not to
knock off U-boats. Another misconception is
that a large convoy steams into the port of its
destination like an invading armada. The prob-
lem of breaking up the convoy pattern and
having the ships “peel off” into separate groups
is a fascinating one for a mathematically
minded skipper to handle. The skipper of our
convoy describes it as a “chess problem.” He
works it out on paper down to the seconds
of departure for each ship.— N.Y. “Times”
correspondent who accompanied “an important
convoy” which recently reached England.


'U£JfA4-
... not very old for a Company !
But Olympic, whose plant was offici-
ally opened on June Ist, 1934, had
grown to adulthood long before its
tenth birthday.
Ten crowded years ! a decade of
creative work, inspired by high ideals
of present and future service to
Australia.
THE
Olympic
TYRE & RUBBER CO. LTD.
MAKERS OF OLYMPIC TYRES, AND FOUNDERS
OF THE RUBBER INSULATED CABLE INDUSTRY
IN AUSTRALIA.
OLYMPiC
rubber]
m
Jinsulated!)
CABLES!
&sy
■totlz/Z I **
WC-r
Ar
GET THE BEST FROM YOUR CLIP. READ “WOOL-CLASSING AND
SHED MANAGEMENT.” 3s. 6d.. POST FREE. “BULLETIN” OFFICE.
Public Notices.
I, BERNHARDT TIMM, of Estonian nationality,
born at Vim, District Estonia, and resident 17
years in Australia, now residing at 35 Kitchener
Street, Oatley, Sydney, New South Wales, intend
to apply for naturalisation under the Nationality
Act 1920-1036.
I, EUGENE DOVGAN, of Russian nationality, born
at Harbin, China, and resident five years in Aus-
tralia, now residing at 8 Wharf Road, Ermington,
Sydney, in the State of New South Wales, a mem-
ber of the Australian Imperial Forces, intend to
apply for naturalisation under the Nationality Act
1920-1936.
I, ATTILIO CRGSARIOL, of Italian nationality,
born at S’stino, Italy, and resident 16 years in
Australia, new residing at “Glen Leigh,” Mulgoa
Road, Penrith, intend to apply for naturalisation
under the Nationality Act 1920-1936.
Heirs Wanted.
WILL the children of the late JAMES MAC-
DONALD, or anyone having information regarding
them, please communicate with Mr. 0. O. Mant, 6
Ointra Road, Bowen Hills, Brisbane?
• James Macdonald was the son of the late
Reverend Donald Macdonald, minister of the High
Church, Inverness, Scotland, and came to Australia
about 1870. He is believed to have married in
Brisbane and is known to have died before 1897.
Legal /Notice.
ESTATE of the late MISS JANET BUCHANAN
McAllister, sometime of 9 Grosvenor Terrace,
Glasgow, and latterly residing at Glasgow Royal
Mental Hospital, Glasgow, who died on l(3th
January, 1943.
An ACTION of MULTIPLEPOINDING and EX-
ONERATION has been raised in the SHERIFF
COURT of LANARKSHIRE at GLASGOW. At the
instance of JOHN STEWART ROBERTON, Writer,
176 St. Vincent Street, Glasgow, Judicial Factor on
the Estate of the deceased MISS JANET
BUCHANAN McALLISTER, sometime of 9 Gros-
venor Terrace, Glasgow, and latterly residing at
Glasgow Royal Mental Hospital, Glasgow, conform
to Act and Decree of the Lords of Council and
Session in his favor dated sth May, 1943, against
ROBERT RENNIE, residing at 158 Pikeman Road,
Glasgow; EALISON RENNIE, or WOTHERSPOON,
residing at 15 Baldric Road, Glasgow; MARGARET
INGLIS RENNIE, or WATT, 55 Dykebar Road,
Glasgow, W. 3; ANNABEL RENNIE, 158 Pikeman
Road, Glasgow, W-3 ; MRS. ELIZABETH McALLIS-
TER REID, or GRANT, residing at 41 Kenton
Road, Newcastle-on-Tyne, and ISOBEL SMITH REID,
or CUPPLES, residing at 29 Hartley Avenue, Monk-
seaton, Northumberland; HAZEL RENNIE REID, of
134 Ovington Grove, Fenham, Newcastle-on-Tyne;
DONALD McALLISTER ANDERSON REID, of 11
Graham Street, Woolston, Christchurch, New
Zealand; and DAVID McALLISTER REID,
of 29 Hardey Avenue, Monkseaton, Northum-
berland, concluding for distribution of the
Estate of the said MISS JANET BUCHANAN Mc-
ALLISTER among the Claimants found entitled
thereto; for exoneration of the Pursuer and Real
Raiser and for expenses of the Action.
In which Action the Court has been pleased tp
pronounce the following INTERLOCUTOR, viz.:—
“GLASGOW 17th March 1944 Holds the fund in
medio correctly stated in the Petition as being the
proceeds of the sale of the Securities mentioned
therein Finds the Pursuer and Real Raiser liable
only in once and single payment thereof and Grants
warrant to the Pursuer and Real Raiser to realise
and sell the said securities and thereafter to con-
sign in the hands of the Clerk of Court the pro-
ceeds of said sale under deduction of his expenses
to which he is hereby found entitled as the same
shall be taxed by the Auditor of Court to whom
Remits for taxation and on consignation thereof
less said expenses Exoners and Discharges him of
the said fund in medio and of his whole actings and
intromissions had therewith Further Appoints ad-
vertisement of the import of the Petition and of this
interlocutor once in each of the Glasgow “Herald”
“News of the World” New York “Herald” Winni-
peg “Free Press” Sydney “Bulletin” and Auckland
“N.Z. Herald” and Ordains all parties claiming to
share in said fund to lodge their claims with the
Clerk of Court at Glasgow within twelve weeks
from this date and Appoints the cause to the Pro-
cedure Roll of 16th June 1944 before Sheriff
GuiId.—NORMAN M. L. WALKER.”
Of all which intimation is hereby given.—
Mackenzie Robertson and Co., Writers, 176 St. Vin-
cent Street, Glasgow, Solicitors for the Pursuer and
Real Raiser.
4a
■Jc
a
w
%
e*
here/is a “Fifth” Freedom
7,
z
• e &*r^c
/
&
/
i m
d/ //
at
m
WM
::
THE FREEDOM TO DEVELOP
OUR MANUFACTURING INDUSTRIES
Australian manufacturing industries
have developed under the impetus of
war’s demands. To-day, we are a great
manufacturing nation, able to produce
in our own Australian factories and
engineering shops products which
would have been considered impos-
sible in the days before war forced us
to depend upon our own resources.
No longer can Australians be made to
believe that anything is impossible to
our engineers, designers and technolo-
gists, or to our Australian workmen,
who have proved that in knowledge,
initiative and skill they are inferior to
none anywhere in the world.
In the development of our manufac-
turing industries is one of the most
important factors in post-war pros-
perity, both for the nation and for
the individual. That is the “Fifth”
Freedom, which is vital to Australia.
M
Cmmoimeafyc
ROLLING MILLS PTY. LTD.
PORT KEMBLA, N. S. W-
C 6-44
SERVICE DEPARTMENT.
Wants.
To buy book of Joyce Kilmer’s poems, also
Travels with a Donkey, by R. L. Stevenson. —
3471.
To buy a Swift 220-calibre rifle and some
250/3000 Savage or Winchester cartridges. —
3472.
Information Sought.
Is ergosterol obtainable in Australia for
medical purposes ? Has it been successfully used
for treatment of arthritis?
Ergosterol is probably unprocurable in Aus-
tralia except for purposes of research. Its
purified product is calciferol (vitamin D),
present in concentrated form in fish-liver oils.
Certain concentrates, containing both vitamin
D and vitamin A, appear to relieve and, in
some instances, cure some forms of arthritis.
* * ■* *
How are substances such as Masonite and
Preswood made ?
Masonite is made from waste timber (wood
chips, etc.) from sawmills by subjecting the
wood to the action of high-pressure steam.
Wood consists of fibres of cellulose bound
together with a substance known as lignin; the
steam separates out the long cellulose fibres
without breaking or otherwise changing them
and softens the lignin binder so that the re-
sultant pulp can be pressed into boards with-
out using an adhesive. “Preswood” is the trade
name for a dense and strong grade made by
hydraulic pressure.
* * * *
Why is the bust of the reigning monarch on
British coins struck facing the opposite way to
that of his predecessor ?
Custom was originated by Charles 11, who, it
is said, turned his back to Cromwell. The
custom became a tradition and continued until
the reign of Edward VIII, who ordered that
his bust on the coins should face the same way
as that of George V. The coins were, how-
ever, never issued, and George VI followed the
tradition.
* * * *
Was John L. Sullivan recognised as world’s
heavyweight champion under Marquess of
Queensberry rules?
.Yes. Sullivan defeated Dominic McCaffery
in a contest advertised for world’s heavyweight
championship under Marquess of Queensberry
rules at Cincinnati, Ohio, U.S.A., on August
29, 1885.
Brief Answers.
E.P.8.: Only coins of any value are the
Z.A.R. 6d. (value 6d.) and George IV 6d.
(value 6d.). No coins holed by previous owners
have collector value... .D.M,; No information
available... .E.R.: Australia pays no tax in
any form to Great Britain... .R.C.A.: Although
most merchant ships are under Government
control,, Merchant Navy personnel are civilians.
I.M.; That book is now unobtainable in
Sydney H.M.C.: “Maoriland” (M.L. for
short) for New Zealand.... W.A.N.: There are
62 members of the Q’land Parliament E.A.:
Apply to your local National Service Officer
P.S.: Fast Way to Health (21s. 6d.) and Slim-
ming for the Millions (4s. lOd.) from Angus
and Robertson, Sydney. “Downbeat” and
“Metronome” unavailable; Priestley’s The
Good Companions is out of print.
Answers to Correspondents.
Name and address must appear on the MS. No
liability is undertaken re contributions voluntarily
submittedj and no M.S. will be returned unless
stamps accompany. MS, should be addressed to
the Editor.
E.G.S.: “Miasma” not far off... .D.H.: Re-
hash in verse of one of our cartoons B.B.:
Harmless trifle W.G.M.: Descriptions are
conventional and lack the freshness of the last,
line P.D.K.: Too many “doths” and “yeas.”
K.S.: Ever tried short stories? C.V.:
For a woman’s paper D. 8.: Rabbit needs
a lot more cooking N.A.R.: Elementary.
F.O’C.: A ballad or narrative about one
explorer would be better than those thinnish
generalisations E.H.: Last line banal
P.M.: Promising; first two stanzas and general
theme need clarifying G. 8.: “It might be
of interest to thousands of your readers.”
It might F.L.S.: Give the last two stanzas
more point and more polish and “Tonsorial
Tales” will stand a chance W.C.: Can’t see
the orchids for the surrounding decorations
J.W.: Only when you get down to cussing the
chimney do you express yourself with clarity
and grace J.F.: A good par. or even a short
story lost in tame and wordy verse E.J.D.:
Incoherent.... J.G.A.: Come again.,. .R.R.K.:
Mildly amusing M.E.: “May I send some
other poems for you to look at?” As long as
they’re not about droughts, sunsets, dying
swaggies, Hitler, or bluegums that remind you
of sentinels.... J.W.W.: Incomprehensible....
F.R.: Adds to the horrors of rationing....
R.D.F.: “He has composed dozens of pieces,
which are really good. I am going to send them
to you.” What have we ever done to you?
J.R.S.: Turgid declamation... .G.8.H.: Pardon-
able if you’re young.... J.W.E.: Thanks, but we
don’t reprint C.N.; Thought admirable; ex-
pression ineffably inadequate R.E.R.: Doro-
thea Mackellar was before you.


SAVINGSSTAMPS HAVE
GOT ME IN A STICKY MESS
krj
V
m
&
Stick the Squander Bug down
with a 5/- National Savings Stamp
These stamps will keep him in place and make sure that
your savings go to speed the victory and helpi on our war
effort. Don’t spend a penny unless for something that you
genuinely need. Use every penny you can save to keep
up your war savings.
BUY 6d. War Savings Stamps, from any Money Order
Post Office. OR War Savings Certificates, from any
Bank, Savings Bank, or Money ' Order Post Office.
OR 51- National Savings Stamps, from any Savings
Bank or Money Order Post Office.
THE
PUBLIC TRUSTEE
Acts As
Trustee, Executor,
Administrator, Agent
or Attorney.
Under STATE GUARANTEE.
Absolute Security.
Estates efficiently and
economically managed.
WRITE OR CALL FOR
FREE BOOKLET.
19 O’Connell St. (Box 7A, G.P.0.),
Sydney.
W. B. Geddes, Public Trustee.
MANY NEVER
SUSPECT CAUSE
OF BACKACHES
fThis 013 Treatmenl Often Rrlngs
Happy Relief
It is surprising how quickly many sufferers
relieve nagging backache once they discover
that the real cause of their trouble may be
clogged kidneys.
Your kidneys contain 15 miles of tiny tubes
or filters which strain the waste and acids
from the blood. A healthy person should pass
three pints a day and so get rid of three pounds
of waste matter.
If your kidneys don’t work well, this waste
stays in the body and may become poisonous,
causing nagging backaches, leg pains, loss of
pep and energy, getting up nights, lumbago,
swollen feet and ankles, puffiness under the
eyes, rheumatic pains and dizziness. Frequent
or scanty passages with smarting and burning
are further evidence that something is wrong
witih the kidneys or bladder.
Don’t Wait! Ask your chemist or store for
DOAN’S BACKACHE KIDNEY PILLS...
used successfully the world over by millions of
people suffering with backache and other kidney
disorders. They give quick relief and will help
flush out the 15 miles of kidney tubes. So be
sure you get DOAN’S BACKACHE KIDNEY
PILLS,
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
Anthony Hordern and Sons (Sydney)
( Dividends To Nominal
Pref. Re- Re-
Feb., Profit.* 74 p.c. Ordinary. serves, serves.*
1934. . 51,864 51,139 Nil 725 82,532
11.6 p.c.
1935.. 84,387 87,188 t Nil 79,731
1936.. 97,941 87,188 t 2 p.c. = 25,000 65,484
5.8 p.c.
3937. .109,416 43,598 41 ~,, 56,250 9,573 75,057
1938. 43,593 5 „ ~ 62.500 6,933 81,990
1939. .107,695 43,593 5 „ „ 62,500 1,602 93,592
1940. .110,950 43,594 5 ~., 62,500 4,856 88,448
1941.. 111.732.43,594 5 ~,, 62,500 5,638 94,086
1942. .110,353 43,594 5 ~,, 62,500 4,259 98,345
1943. .109,257 43,594 5 „ „ 62,500 3,163 101,508
1944. .111,385 43,594 5 „ „ 62,500 5,291 106,799
* After deducting debenture interest. t Two years.
t Subject to goodwill, etc., now £273,153.
There is evidence in that table of care-
ful and able management, including a
tight hold upon outgoings. Owing to the
universal nature of this big more-than-
century-old Sydney emporium and the
wide area it covers —stocks range from
regulation-frozen machinery and hard-
ware lines to men’s and women’s fashion
goods, and country trade used to figure
prominently in turnover —earnings are
subject to a wider range of influences
than most other traders have to contend
with. For these and other reasons the
co. isn’t to be judged in the same light
as specialty stores up town.
Clothes rationing and the price ceiling
have limited the amount that can be spent
in that way, and priorities and permits
have severely restricted turnover in other
lines. The next table shows the percen-
tage change in aggregate sales of a
number of the larger Sydney stores com-
pared with the corresponding period of
the preceding year;
Average Three Months Ended
A
Sept. Dec. Mar. June. Year.
1939- +2.6 +5.6 +3.2 +6.3 +4.5
1940- +7.5 +7.8 +10.9 +23.3 +12.3
1941- +15.4 +9.4 +11.5 -2,4 +B.O
1942- —6.0 -19.3 -18.8 —6.0 —12.6
1943- —19.3 —1.6 —-
Also, since 1940 there have been sub-
stantial advances in taxation, wages and
all other costs, while bureaucratic con-
trols have brought confusion and waste
where none existed previously, and the
co.’s executives and an army of clerks
have been kept busy collecting data, com-
piling statistics and making requests to
appropriate Government departments and
boards.
Still, under existing conditions special
production, distribution, shipping, import,
man-power and other problems exist, and
Government must deal with them. The
exasperating feature is that Government
controls have increased costs and put a
break on efficiency and all that goes with
it, including an increasing standard of
living. Service, the keynote of the board’s
policy and upon which the co. built a
solid and extensive goodwill, has been
affected by depletion of trained staff and
compulsory curtailment in other re-
spects. The delivery fleet, one of the
biggest of its kind in the Commonwealth
pre-war, has been reduced by Govern-
ment requisition, and activity of the bal-
ance has been restricted by petrol ration-
ing, etc.
Also, the co.’s factories are en-
gaged on munition and other Govern-
ment work from which gain isn’t looked
for these days, and materials have not
been available for manufacture of civilian
needs. And last year the board made
further space available to our own and
Allied forces for storage and other pur-
poses. Traders and shoppers both look
forward to the time when Government
war needs and irksome controls relax and
the advantages of judiciously regulated
free enterprise can be enjoyed again.
However, despite difficulties referred
to and other problems associated with
drought, marketing and labor, the board
was able to write last term’s net earnings
£2128 better at £111,385. That was after
allowing £54,825 (up £580) for deprecia-
tion and making an unspecified provision
for taxation —there was a net reduction of
£6OBB in the tax reserve (£185,713). The
£111,385 was a shade over 5.5 p.c. on the
£2,000,000 of share capital, of which
£750,000 carries a cumulative p.c., re-
duced to 5.8 p.c, under the N. S. Wales
Interest Reduction Act. After handing
the prefs. the reduced rate, the balance
was equal to 5.4 p.c. on ord. capital. The
div. was kept at 5 p.c., and seems likely
to remain there, for a while at any rate.
Despite heavy outlay on modernisation
of the store, over the last seven years
there has been a net reduction of £347,838
(£44,287 of it in respect of last term) in
the book value of fixed assets, with con-
sequent improvement in the liquid
strength:
1937. 1948. 1944.
Ord. capital .. £1,250,000 £1,250,000 £1,250,000
Pref. capital .. 750,000 750,000 750,000
Debentures .. 600,000
Mortgage .. .. 350,000 245,000
Creditors, etc. .. 84,633 144,270 142,577
Tax reserves .. 43,582 191,801 185,713
Freeholds and
leaseholds ~ 1,281,236 1,153,228 1,139,173
Plant, etc. .. 256,951 87,409 51,176
Stocks .. .. 757,221 923,265 757,661
Book debts . . 224,469 240,207 169,115
Cash, etc... 63,289 163,365 342,857
Last term £105,000 was lopped off the
mortgage and cash, etc., was strengthened
by £179,492. To do it debtors’ balances
were reduced by £71,092 and stocks by
£165,604, leaving the last-mentioned asset
at about the 1937 level. The strong cash
holding and reduction in stocks suggest
the management is keeping a close eye
on post-war problems.
Northcote Brick Co.. Ltd. (Melb.)
To Re- Re-
Mar., Profit. Dividends. serves, serves.
1934.. 8,846 5 p.c. = 7,500 1346 42,061
1935. . 14,398 8f „ „ 13,125 1273 43.334
1936.. 9,375 6i „ „ 9,375 43,334
1937.. 9,591 6j „ 9,375 216 43,550
1938.. 15,861 8i „ „ 13,125 2736 46,286
1939.. 11,532 7$ „ ~ 11,250 282 46,568
Depreciation reserve disappears, £10,000.. 36,568
1940.. 13,156 74 p.c. = 11,250 1906 38,474
1941.. 11,211 74 „ „ 11,250 38,435
Loss.
1942.. 3,779 1J „ „ 2,500 32.156
1943.. 3,614 Nil 28,542
1944.. 2,878 Nil 25,664
The collapse of earnings is due mainly
to the almost complete cessation of
building, brought about by Government
restrictions aimed at strangling specula-
tion and canalising available funds into
war loans. The granting of permits for
new buildings or alterations costing more
than £5OOO came under Treasury control
in Dec., 1940. This control, which
became progressively more stringent,
passed to W. 0.1. in June, 1942; after
that only alterations costing less than £25
could be made without authority.
The next table illustrates what hap-
pened—it shows the average monthly
value of private building permits isued
by local-government bodies in the Vic-
torian metropolis':-
1935- ..£597,000 1939-40 ..£774,000
1936- .. 667,000 1940-41 .. 865,000
1937- .. 669,000 1941-42 .. 343,000
1938- .. 702,000 1942-43 .. 77,000
About the only demand left for this and
some 13 other Melbourne brickmakers
has been that for which Government and
A.R.P. bodies don’t require cement. At
the same time wage, materials and all
other costs, including taxation, advanced
at the double.
Thus over the last three years the co.
registered net losses aggregating £10,271.
Conditions improved slightly during the
second half of last term, when a second
kiln was brought into operation, and the
year’s loss was £736 lighter at £2878.
The board hopes to balance on the right
side of the ledger at the close of next
accounts.
But satisfactory returns on capital need
not be looked for until present official
taboos on new buildings are removed
and a start made to overtake the acute
lag in home construction, etc., which
promises to be one of the most, if not
the most; important of early post-war
jobs. What profits are likely to be won
by the various sections of the industry
will depend largely upon the extent and
nature of continued Government inter-
ference.
Supplies of essential raw materials for
building seem likely to remain subject to
some control, for a while at any rate, be-
cause of the need for priority of essential
over less urgent demands. Some form of
control over prices for the said materials
might also continue, in order to avoid
inflation of building costs. Inflation
here would tend to bump up rents and
wages (as the result of cost-of-living ad-
justments), as well as raise the price of
commodities generally, because of in-
creased costs. Accurate estimates of the
post-war house shortage are difficult to
arrive at, owing to shifts in population
and age groups. The quick growth of
urban war industries accelerated the “drift
to the cities,” which has been accentuated
by the influx of Allied troops and service
personnel on leave. In some localities
there is now an acute house shortage ; in
others, ghost towns.
The year’s unprofitable trading is
further reflected in the co.’s financial
position;
1940. 1942. 1943. 1944.
Paid capital. . £150,000 £150,000 £150,000 £150,000
Liabilities .. 6,747 12,855 2,374 2,513
Freeholds .. 87,426 86,187 86,321 86,146
Plant, etc. . . 31,600 31,671 31,660 31,650
Stocks . . 5,105 4,821 4,107 2,030
Book debts . . 12,861 0,505 6,000 3,623
Shares other cos. 44,321 44,946 44,946 44.946
Cash, etc. .. 21,419 17,880 7,882 8,883
Excluding shares in other cos., the more
or less liquid surplus (£12,922) was £2720
lighter than at, the previous balance.
Shareholdings are mainly the co.’s interest
in other brickmaking concerns at Black-
burn, Auburn and Oakleigh.
Commonwealth Wool and Produce (Syd.)
Bonus Added
to to Re- Re-
Mar., Profit. Dividends. Clients, serves, serves.
& £0 £* £ £
1934.. 20,739 5 p.c. = 11,616 4630 4493 78,529
1935.. 11,886 4 „ „ 9,440 4578 77,397
1936.. 22,403 5 „ „ 12,463 6723 3217 80,614
1937.. 26,622 6 „ ~14,949 7056 4617 85,231
1938.. 17,849 4 „ „ 11,998 2927 2924 88,165
1939.. 7,610 2i „ „ 7,499 Nil . 11l 88,266
1940.. 20,648 4 „ „ 11,999 2858 5791 94,057
1941.. 17,334 3 „ „ 9,000 3289 5045 99,102
1942.. 12,751 2£„ „ 7,500 5251 104,353
1943.. 12,710 25,. „ 7,500 5210 109,563
1944.. 17,290 4 „ ~ 12,000 - 5290 114,853
Pre-war earnings fluctuated according
to seasons, prices and costs, mostly
wages; and wool-buyers came from all
over the world to bid for the staple at
auction. Auctions ceased with outbreak
of war, and Britain bought the export-
able portion of the clip at a flat rate of
13.4 d. per pound until mid-1942, when
the figure was lifted to 15.4 d, to help
offset rising costs of production. What
this means to the growing and selling
sides of the trade can be judged from the
fact that the appraised value of the
1942-43 clip was £6,874,000 short of the
full contract figure (£73,252,000), which
was £7,687,000 more than the previous
clip fetched, thanks also to satisfactory-
seasons and growing flock numbers.
C.W. and P.’s interests spread through-
out N.S.W. and northern Victoria. Last
term an extra 10,161 bales of wool were
received:
t Wool, Bales .
Year Dis- Carry-
Mar., Receipts, posals. forward. Slieep. Cattle.
1936 .. 123,613 142,545 1,783 539,227 37,877
1937 . . 133,267 124,305 10,745 624,133 30,394
1938 .. 131,326 122,262 19,809 644,445 28,841
1939 . . 113,658 125,089 8,378 608,566 20,272
1940 .. 141,996 135,311 15,063 519,345 26,859
1941 .. 130,581 139,954 5,690 559,141 18,659
1942 .. 182,026 131,901 5,815 536,126 14,372
1943 .. 111,864 111,962 5,717 522,324 16,697
1944 .. 122,025 120,246 7,946 471,580 15,224
But 50,744 fewer sheep and 1473 fewer
cattle were put under the hammer. Still,
buying pressure on account of service re-
quirements kept prices up. The co. also
acts as managing agent for Nenco (New
England, North and North-west Pro-
ducers Co.), Newcastle, in which a con-
trolling interest was bought about three
years ago at a cost approximately £32,000
to protect connections in the north and
nor’-west of N.S.W. For the year to


THE
UNITED
INSURANCE COMPANY LTD.
HEAD OFFICE : GEORGE AND HUNTER
STREETS, SYDNEY
An Australian Institution.
Established 1862.
DIRECTORS:
E. R. Knox (Chairman), Sir Thomas
Buckland, F. W. Hixson, .Orwell
Phillips, G. F. Hughes, Robert Vicars.
Fire, Marine and Accident
Insurances of Every
Description
A. C. Dawson, T. C. Reynolds,
General Manager. Asst. Gen. Manager.
INVENTORS. —Have you an idea worth.patenting?
Griffith, H asset and Griffith, Patent Attorneys,
Asbestos House, Or. York and Barrack Streets, Sydney,
obtain Commonwealth and foreign patents.— Advt.
* * * *
Hydraulic Power, Electric and Hydraulic Lifts,
Limited (incorporated by of Parliament 1888),
hydraulic, electric and general engineers, lift
specialists.- Maintenance and repairs of ail classes of
lifts and other machinery. Colonial Mutual Life
Building, 14 Martin Place, Sydney.— Advt.
* * * *
DAVIES & COLLISON, Patent Attorneys, Collins
House, 360 Collins Street, Melbourne, C.l. Austra-
lian and overseas Patents and Trade Marks. — Advt.
m
ZA
m
m
i
ifc
m.
Wherever the wheels of Industry turn
Since 1858 Ludowici Powet Trans-
mission Equipment has played an
important part in the industrial de-
velopment of Australia. First with
their famous Pioneer Leather Belting
and, more recently, with a full range
of equipment to meet every need to
ensure maximum efficiency in the
transmission of power. Ludowici
Engineers are available to give you
the benefit of their expert knowledge
and experience on every power
transmission problem.
heather and Rubber
Belting, Pulleys,
Bearings, Gears,
Hangers, Couplings,
Shafting, Short Centre
Pivot Drive.
LUDOWICI
POWER TRANSMISSION
EQUIPMENT
J. C. LUDOWIC I & SON LTD.
117 YORK STREET, SYDNEY • 20-26 QUEEN’S BRIDGE STREET, SOUTH MELBOURNE
LEND NOW—SPEND LATER! BUY NATIONAL SAVINGS BONDS.
IS
IS*
D
Ht*
0* 6
Ifi
in a great
big
hot oven
Why run up bills, why make extra work for yourself by cook-
ing one thing at a time? You save yourself, you save money AND you save
coal which is vital to victory, when you make full use of your oven every
time you heat it up.
When you’re cooking a joint, use every shelf in the oven. Cook a custard,
a casserole, a fruit pie, a cheese savoury numberless things that will be
just as delicious next day. When you’ve finished, you can put a cake in, to
use the heal of the oven as it cools off. Then you can relax, conscious of
having speeded Victory by saving precious coal.
Your efforts in this direction may seem small. But when practised by every
household, they cap make a tremendous difference to Australia’s war
production.
juft
For BATTLE
CUT DOWN ON
GAS
ELECTRICITY
AND
HOT WATER
nottttmiaoj pwj t{sp>9Muouiuioj »tp nq psnttf
GE24-19
June 30, 1943, the Newcastle business
handled 44,441 bales of wool, 81,233 sheep
and 6534 cattle, each a slight increase on
the previous year’s figures. No inkling
is given as to what divs., ifj any, the sub-
sidiary has paid.
Last term’s improvement in the parent s
gross earnings from commissions and
other sources (£176,900) was £9916.
Exes. (£159,610), including £2713 for de-
preciation and £17,304, up £3591, set
aside for the taxgatherer) took £4336 of
the increase, leaving the net result £5580
better at £17,290. This was 5.7 p.c. on
capital as against 4.2 p.c, for each of the
two preceding terms. The div. was lifted
from 2\ p.c. to 4 p.c., making the aver-
age over the last decade 3.7 p.c. No
rebate was made to clients.
With capital and reserves and more be-
sides represented by fixed assets, the co.
has had to borrow to lend:
1940. 1942. 1943. 1944.
Capital .. £299,980 £300,000 £300,000 £300,000
Sundry
creditors, etc. 179,290 143,914 115,420 180,214
Overdraft, etc. 310,441 234,182 215,323 175,732
Provident fund 54,627 53,595 57,787 63,358
Freeholds, etc. 479,023 498,846 496,298 494,083
Stocks .. 31,341 48,572 35,449 30,727
Book debts . . 432,725 237,554 208,963 256,350
Cash, etc. .. 7,306 6,905 7,436 7,223
Shares subsid. 31,669 32,093 32,208
Advances subsid. 20,000 25,263 25,566
Last term advances to clients were in-
creased by £47,387 net and £39,591 was
clipped off the overdraft, etc. To do it
the amount coming to sundry creditors,
etc. —the etcetera is an unspecified pro-
vision for taxation —was increased by
£64,794. When the books closed liabili-
ties exceeded more or less liquids
(£319,861, including advances to but not
shares in the subsidiary) by £99,443, an
improvement of £11,976 over the twelve-
month.
Since the close of accounts satisfactory
rains have fallen on most of the dry
pastoral areas in N.S.W. and Victoria.
What post-war conditions for wool will
be remains to be seen. Much will de-
pend upon the plan for release of sur-
plus British and American stocks of the
staple. Also, keen competition is
threatened from synthetic fibres.
Emperor mill, converted to all-sulphide
treatment, is scheduled to begin com-
bined crushing for the co. and Loloma,
its Fijian neighbor, in July. Because
of transfer of its roaster (a second was
bought in Australia) and other equipment
to the new mill, Loloma has been merely
stacking ore since December, while Em-
peror has been forced on to low-grade
oxidised material lying outside the
measured-ore perimeter in the south of
the opencut. Thus, while Emperor
throughput for the year just about to
conclude has risen by some 25,000 tons,
gold yields have collapsed from 6.6 to 2.6
’weights to the ton. When it can get its
teeth into the sulphides. Emperor is look-
ing for a 90 p.c. recovery from the
800,000 tons of 7.Bdwt. material at pres-
ent lined up, while Loloma is hoping
that in the new mill its treatment costs
(including an allowance for extra hand-
ling and sampling) will be slashed by over
£1 a ton. Whether things will pan out
quite that way remains to be seen.
Neither co. has made a dividend distribu-
tion —under war-time legislation now tax-
able in shareholders’ hands—since 1941.
Emperor, Ltd., however, paid is. 6d. a
share as return of capital in January ; the
same course isn’t open to Loloma, a no-
liability concern. Twelve months ago
that co.’s holding of cash or its equiva-
lent amounted to £A343,700.
❖ ❖ * %
The demand for Golden Horseshoe
shares arises from whispers that the pro-
posal, made again and again in recent
years, for further return of capital is
likely'to be agreed to at the next annual
meeting. A shilling a share was repaid
in 1932, and the board has repeatedly
stated that it would consider further re-
payment when capital expenditure had
come to an end and all residues on hand
were treated and no more were available
for purchase. That time may be shortly.
At the last roll-up chairman knight
Frederic Hamilton said that at the then
rate of throughput treatment of the re-
maining tailings was expected to be com-
pleted in March this year. He added that
the co. had an understanding with Lake
View and Star under which it might re-
treat a pile of about half a million tons
of tailings on a 50-50 profit basis. A
decision in this matter has yet to be made.
Liquid assets, including stores, approxi-
mate the amount of the issued capita],
which is £165,000 in 1,100,000 3s. shares.
* * * *
London buying caused the recent sud-
den rise in the low-priced shares of
Hampton Areas (W.A.). The co., which
is the third reconstruction of Hampton
Plains Estate, Ltd., owns nearly 200,000,
acres of freehold containing patches of
auriferous country about 22 miles south-
east of Kalgoorlie. A section of it near
Coolgardie was at first thought to in-
clude Bayley’s Reward mine, but survey
showed that it didn’t. The present market
flutter is attributed to a new find on por-
tion of the holding known as Block 59,
* * * -f
In a survey of Westralia’s mining in-
dustry, Professor F. R. Mauldon and
G. B. Lancaster, chairman and secretary
respectively of the local Industry Expan-
sion Commission, say that recent exploita-
tion of strategic mineral deposits shows
that the immediate war-time value of
many is of greater significance than their
probable post-war value. The blue
asbestos deposits in the Hamersley
Ranges, inland from Roebourne, are a
notable exception. The contraction in
goldmining activity has resulted in a
reduction of 32 p.c. in output of mining
timber and 17 p.c. firewood.
* * * *
Golden Horseshoe (W.A.) paid a div.
of 3d, sterling (the same as last year) on
June 9, but this time 2|d. of the distribu-
tion is to come out of “exempt income.”


-nMv
Th e
HAVE YOU
CONSIDERED
THIS CODICIL?
By adding a simple codicil to your Will you can guard against difficulties
and loss which might arise should your Executor die or become incapacitated.
By means of such a codicil you can name Burns Philp Trust Co. Ltd. as joint
Executor with your present appointee or, if you wish, as sole Executor.
In this way you gain positive assurance of continuous and sound administration
and are relieved of a serious anxiety. The Company will willingly forward
full particulars.
DIRECTORS— James Burnt - Robert John Notworthy - Lewis Arimtrong • Joseph Mitchell
Manager—C. H. Chester
BURNS PHILP TRUST
COMPANY LIMITED
7 BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY
PHONE: B 7*ol.
Jox 543 B. ©.P.0., Sydney.
BP 9-44.
Insure with the
AUSTRALIAN MUTUAL FIRE INSURANCE SOCIETY, LTD.
ESTABLISHED 1872.
HEAD OFFICE: INSURANCE HOUSE, 109 PITT STREET, SYDNEY
Invested Funds exceed £500,000.
All classes Marine, Fire and Accident Insurance at lowest rates.
TOURISTS’ AND TRAVELLERS’ BAGGAGE INSURED.
VICTORIAN BRANCH; 411 Collins Street, Melbourne.
QUEENSLAND BRANCH: Woolworth’s Building, Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
Claims Promptly and Equitably Settled. Agents in all Principal Country Towns.
W. G. BROWN, General Manager.
Business, Rollery, Etc.
Immigration
It is almost as astounding to hear
Labor Minister Forde speaking up for
immigration as it was to see him made
Minister for the Army and to see him
now acting as Minister for Defence, vice
the Prime Minister. In the light of the
Labor party’s past history it is almost
absurd to hear its leaders talking about
encouraging immigration; but is the pic-
ture of the present Labor Government
riding the political warhorse any less
shattering in view of its pre-war record?
It appears that the Labor party, when in
office and confronted with first-class
problems, is prepared to make some oral
concession to realities. Still, past
training and teaching die hard, and Can-
berra remains a box of political tricks
in the eyes of thousands. If the referen-
dum itself is not loaded with such
trickery, many of the means used to
further its chances most certainly are.
The Labor Government seems ex-
tremely reluctant to forgo much of the
present tax revenue when the war is over.
We have had a statement from Dr.
Coombs, Director of Post-war Recon-
struction/on this point; we have had
another from Mr. Calwell, when he was
talking about the “economic conscrip-
tion” of the A.1.F., and we have had,
more recently, a high-taxation advocate
in the shane of Mr Forde
„ „ P , , ’ . ,
Dr. Coombs s reason for continued
high taxation was post-war reconstruc-
tion, one of Mr. Calwell s reasons was
? u mc u r ® as ® d iater J es , t on the natloaal
debt, while Mr. Forde s argument is that
post-war immigration will involve more
peace-time taxation.
Speaking on May 26 Mr. Forde, with
whom talk is cheap, referring to Aus-
tralia’s seven million population, said
“History will one day reveal how closely
Australia escaped being overrun by a
ruthless enemy. Providence gave us
another chance. The responsibility is ours
to see that we shall never again be unpre-
pared.” Coming from one who should
have “unprepared” embroidered on his
hatband, this is altogether too thick, even
though there is a truth in it for which
many others, not on a Cabinet Minister’s
salary, have been prepared to do much
more than talk fulsomely.
Addressing the Australian Natives’
Association on May 29, Mr. Forde said
that this country should aim at doubling
or even trebling its population. Induce-
ments would have to be given to young
people to marry early, and the Govern-
ment aimed also to bring suitable
migrants, including children, preferably
British stork into thr ronntrv “Fven
uniisn stock, into tne country. tven
it this does mean the continuance oi taxa-
tion of a higher kind than we were accus-
tomed to in peace-time, the paramount
interests of the nation must override every
other consideration, he declared.
Those who are really interested in the
expansion of the Australian population
romintr tn distrust thp ctranolimr
are coming to aistiust the strangling
embrace of Government benevolence.'
When one looks into the politics, waste
and excessive cost that have accompanied
A , , rc i ■ •, c *u i
Australia s war effort, in spite of the close-
ness of our escape from “being overrun
by a ruthless enemy,” one is justified in
Inokimr for thp snap in anv other nrn-
looking ior me snag in any otner pro
gramme that the Government may spon-
sor, especially when that programme en-
visages Government expenditure that may
not be subject to the sobering influence
°f a ruthless enemy” in the vicinity.
Pnor to the last Federal election Prime
Minister Curtin proposed to bring popu-
latlon to Australia by using bank credit,
Mr. Forde proposes to do the trick by,
among other things, keeping taxation
higher than pre-war. How far from
a . ctual incentives to increased immigra-
h°n ant * a rising birthrate do these poli-
*ica* gentlemen wander!
currency debased by inflation is no
attraction to population. Excessive taxa-
don is no attraction either.. To pay for
Government expenditure that is neces-
sary ,*° the greatest possible extent by
taxation is an excellent idea, but if must
never he forgotten that low taxation is
a § rea t attraction to new industries, and
lo ™ taxes and new industries in turn are
a 'tc encouragement to population,
Die United States drew population
from Europe in millions without trying
with P? 1 ?*® 1 ,“) £ “ dness -”
Sf ‘°“ lo « ? xpan ‘
SJ 6 ,E nited St , atesls ” ow
f.HS.TST' lllere
“*“ s a “ »PPOrtumty for the Common-
"e*‘"ft. desrralale a.iyenturous
7 ? u f,? pe :
®“L*lu I f . n f T ■■ £ ‘ f
p f° pe f al , . opport “-
mt £ ~ TK “ lU . want . f e to
Seek . ]obs and . be § iven J obs Without en-
tangling restrictions. They will want to
see a m i n i mum G f their money taken in
unnecessary taxation. They will want
to see prospects of an improved living
standard for the whole country, and it is
elementary that the basis of improved
living standards is increased production
p er m an, with a minimum of unproduc-
tive deadheads in the civil service and
a minimum of restrictions on empioy-
ment.
The Labor party has a long history of
financial inebriation. When one hears of
a Labor immigration policy that of itself
embraces increased taxation it is time to
fear the worst.
A Sydney suburban branch of the
R.S.L. recently received an intriguing
letter with a signature “for H. H. Man-
sell, deputy director,” but no other indi-
cation of its source. Enclosed were
several copies of “Thirty Facts About
Repatriation.” Twenty-five of the “facts”
dealt mostly with statistics of enlistments
and the scope of repatriation allow-
ances; “facts” 26 and 27 referred to the
limited scope of the Repatriation Corn-
mission’s work ; “facts” 28, 29 and 30 are
worth quoting in full:
28 - T he problem of rehabilitating and
protecting the service men and service
women and their dependants will be tW£>
Q r three times as great as it was after the
last war. For this national task the exist-
in § Commonwealth powers may not be
Wl 2 | ? 0 ou r gi force the existing powers and
to ensure that everything possible will be
done for the disabled members of the
forces and their dependants, the Common-
wealth Government proposes this year to
se ek a clear mandate from the Australian
forces and from the Australian people
generally.
. 30 - Che protection will not be confined,
however, to disabled members of the ser-
vices. The Government is also anxious
to receive full authority to make the future
of every service man and service woman
a national responsibility, even if they do
not need pensions. This will be part of
the national plan of rehabilitation, of better-
ment and of full employment for all.
The pamphlet, it is disclosed on the very
last page, is “issued under the direction
and by the authority of the Australian
Minister for Information, the Hon. A. A.
Calwell, M.H.R.” The R.S.L. branch
which has raised the matter objects (a)
to the almost anonymous nature of the
covering letter, ( b ) the mixing-up of re-
patriation matters with propaganda for
Dr. Evatt’s referendum, particularly in
view of the Labor party’s attitude towards
returned-soldier preference and soldiers
generally (505.-70 s. zoot-suits included),
and (c) the classification as “facts” of
what is obviously party opinion and
political propaganda. The offer of addi-
tional copies for distribution has not been
availed of.
* * * *
Gordon and Gotch, distributor of
periodicals and advertising agent, etc.,
has had a remarkably good year. Ordi-
nary dividend has gone up to 16£ p.c.,
compared with 13 p.c. This is one of the
few cases where public cos. have been
able to increase their ord. div. in war-
time. (Tooth’s Brewery was another.)
Colonial Sugar has disclosed the smallest
profit for 11 years, principally because of
lower production of sugar in Australia
and Fiji. Reserves had to be drawn upon
to pay the 8£ p.c. div,
* * * #
Incomplete returns show that 2,945,948
persons subscribed approximately
£A385,700,000 to Canada’s Sixth Victory
Loan, To May 25 the loan had been
oversubscribed by approximately
£A52,000,000. The campaign period was
three weeks.
* * * *
Details of Commonwealth war loans
since Sept. 3, 1939:
Interest, Amount
Opened. P.c. Subscribers. Raised.*
Dec. 1, 1939 .. 3* Com. Bank £2,000,000
Mar. 1, 1940 .. 3* or 3| 14,339 7,676,000
May 29, 1940 .. 2\ or 3£ 32,792 20,582,000
Nov. 28, 1940 .. 2| or 3£ 21,830 20,505,000
Apl. 30, 1941 .. 2*. or 3* 57,217 27,871,000
Oct. 7, 1941 .. „ „ 83,379 34,158,000
Feb. 17, 1942 .. „ „ 244,595 48,332,000
June 2, 1942 .. „ „ 196,541 37,375,000
Nov. 3, 1942 .. „ „ 455,688 82,686,000
Mar. 16, 1943 .. „ „ 433,365 101,822,000
Oct, 5, 1943 .. „ „ 567,700 126,420,000
Mar. 28, 1944 .. „ „ 445,000 150,475,000
2,099,746 £659,902,000
* Excludes conversions.
* * * »
Under influence of the First Victory
Loan flotation the April increase in sav-
ings-bank deposits was only £4 million,
compared with £lO million in March.
The total is now just over £450 million.
* * * »
Speaking on the man-power decision
by the N.S.W. Full Court, Acting P.M.
Forde said “In our dire peril the Curtin
Government did what was essential to
gear the nation to an all-in war effort.”
Our war effort —has it been achieved by,
or in spite of, the Curtin Government?
* * * *
“D.A.”: My barber received the
report of the 6000 eggs a week
bought by employees of the Egg
Marketing Board (two dozen a week
per employee, after the ration for
employees was halved) with a run-
ning commentary of which only barbers
are capable. A relative of his, it appears,
had been fined £l5 for giving a tin of
honey to a country hospital! When one
considers the apples that have been tipped
into lime-pits under board orders so that
they should not be given away, the pigs
which have deteriorated awaiting board
permission to sell (no private killings
allowed!), and the hundreds of other
cases where regulations and threats of
fines or imprisonment have stopped
people making sensible use of their pro-
duce where boards have failed to market
it, the Egg Board comment that the 6000-
egg weekly quota was “a drop in the
ocean” is highly suggestive that the civil
servant who has enmeshed productive in-
dustry in red-tape and futility regards
himself as a being far superior to those
on whom he lives.
* * * *
Says the “Economic News,” a Queens-
land Government publication, expressing
views on “Social Security—True and
False”: “Are we limited to a choice be-
tween Capitalism, with its increasing
economic security, the Slave State, and
Communism (which deprives men of free-
dom just as effectively)? Definitely not.”
The true basis of social security is to pro-
mote a wide distribution of property, so
that as many men as possible should own
their own means of production, and be able
to make provision for themselves. Further-
more, every family should have sufficient
cash reserves to enable it to meet the normal
contingencies offfife. Work done for wages
would then be under contracts freely entered
into on both sides, and not under a forced
contract as it is under Capitalism. A society
of free and well-educated property-owners
would be economically progressive and
would enjoy an advancing standard of
living. Certainly let us have social ser-
vices such as public health services, in-
surance against unemployment, old age and
the like, but with the object of assisting
and supplementing the efforts of the indi-
vidual. To give social services subject to
means test is a step in the wrong direction.
The Bulletin’s idea is that a greater
national movement should be made
towards individual home-ownership.
“Economic News” admits that railways
and steelworks can be carried out suc-
cessfully only on a large scale ; there are a
number of other such industries, includ-
ing woolgrowing, and dozens of manu-
facturing activities where low cost of
production depends upon automatic
machines and machine tools. But, in
many respects the “E.N.” contention is
a good one. Only by an actual stake
in the country, with its responsibilities
as well as its advantages, does it seem
likely that a great many people will
be raised to a reasonable level of eco-
nomic commonsense. Under present
conditions there is a danger of our be-
coming a nation of mendicants. Political
and trade-union racketeers, with their
grab and “gimme” teachings, are making
fools of the people. The “teachers” are
cashing-in on the social friction that is
an inherent feature of civilisation
advanced to its present complicated stage.
Like the lawyer who cannot exist with-
out litigation, there is a certain type of
Australian politician or near-politician
who cannot exist without social discord
or economic revolution. His numbers
are increasing alarmingly. It will be a
tragedy for Australia if creators of social
discord become one of our biggest vested
interests.
* * * *
For the first time Canberra has spoken
straightforwardly about the increasing
note issue in the hands of the public. It
is now prepared to admit it believes that
“income-tax dodgers, black-marketeers
and speculators have hidden large num-
bers of notes,” There has been a steady-
ing in the note-issue expansion lately, but
the total ip, the hands of the public is
up to £167 million, compared with about
£35 million before the war. Common-
wealth authorities have “prepared a plan
to prevent the hoarding of currency
notes,” but don’t consider the position
sufficiently serious for its introduction at
present. There has been considerable
speculation in unofficial circles as to what
results the calling-in of the note issue
would have on hoarders. It might em-
barrass Friends of Labor as much as
others.
* * * »
Last week a question arose in the
Equity Court around the matter of Wool-
cott Forbes’s income tax. A guarantee
had been executed on Dec. 21, 1938, by
Albert Levitus, then managing director
of the Scottish Loan, that Forbes’s in-
come tax would be paid if Forbes left
Australia. Forbes left Sydney a fort-
night later. In March, 1939, the co. went
into liquidation. Among the creditors
was the Commissioner for Taxation, who
claimed £13,849. The Master in Equity
rejected the claim, and the Chief Judge
in Equity was appealed to. The question
for determination was whether the guar-
antee signed by Levitus was binding as
against the Official Liquidator (A. E.
Campbell).
* * * *
Strand and Pitt-street Properties, Ltd.,
is paying a first and final liquidation divi-
dend of Is. 4.45 d. a share. It was a 1929
flotation, share issue underwritten by the
Australian Investment Trust, and took
over the eastern side of the Strand
Arcade, Sydney, with frontages to Pitt
and King streets, as a letting proposition.
Price was £770,000 —£150,000 cash and
the balance on mortgage for 25 years at
6\ p.c. Depression, falling rent revenues
and losses soon attacked die co.’s equity
in the property, and thereafter the flota-
tion was fatally crippled.


Public Notice.
STATUTORY NOTICE TO CREDITORS.
RE WILLIAM HENRY SMITH, late of 48 Jersey Road,
Woollahra, Sydney, in tire State of New South Wales,
Retired Federal Public Servant, deceased. —NOTICE
is hereby given that all creditors and other persons hav-
ing claims against the Estate of the abovenamed
WILLIAM HENRY SMITH, late of 48 Jersey Road,
Woollahra, Sydney, in the State of New South Wales,
deceased, who died on or about the Tenth day of Novem-
ber, 1943 a.d,, at Sydney, New South Wales, in the said
State, are hereby required to send their claims to
the Public Curator, Brisbane, on or before the
Twenty-fifth day of July, 1944. AND that after the
expiration of the last-mentioned date the Public
Curator will proceed to distribute the assets of the
said deceased amongst the parties entitled thereto,
having regard only to the claims of which he shall
then have had notice.
Dated this Twenty-fifth day of May, 1944.
R, J. S. BARNETT,
Public Curator, Brisbane.
FOR 65 YEARS
the
Mercantile Mutual
INSURANCE CO., LTD.,
An Australian Institution, has been pro-
viding security for the homes of the
people, giving service to thou-
sands throughout the land.
Fire, Accident, Motor Car
Householders and Houseowners’
Comprehensive (Combined) Insurance.
Insure Australian Property in an
Australian insurance Company.
Head Office :
117 Pitt Street, Sydney.
SELWYN KING, Managing Director.
ds
DUPLICATOR
I has all the finest features of high-priced
imported machines at only a fraction of
their cost. The "National" Rotary Dupli-
cator will reproduce Typing, Writing.
Plans. Music, etc.
SEND FOR ILLUSTRATED LITERATURE.
£l7/10/- SKS«
Built entirely in Australia by
JACKSON & O’SULLIVAN Pty. Ltd.
SYDNEY AND BRISBANE , 1
fd
Try the new Roussel
Appliance Free. En-
ables you to do hard
work with comfort and
security. Definitely
holds, a condition ab-
solutely necessary for
Improvement or recov-
ery. Recommended by
Doctors. Satisfaction
guaranteed no matter
where you live. Send for details, self-
measurement form, testimonials and 14 days*
free trial offer. No obligation.
THE ROUSSEL. APPLIANCE CO.,
(Dent. 27), 9 Martin Place, Sycu.ey.
Your Dog
BARKO
CONDITION POWDERS
PRICE 1/6 AT ALL CHEMISTS
STRONGER... LIGHTER ...LON CER-LASTING
fds
Under war condi-
tions, only occasional
manufacture is pos-
sible, but Globites
will be supplied
whenever available.
f
V
V
r »s
e *th
\
‘'at
\
0
po
pit
\
V
£*tG
s.
n\
TV
N\
'-x
'/ ’
e s
#e
#e
<*%
We
oes
A
N.P. IS J
m
■
:
COMPANY MEETING
THE CHALLENGE AHEAD
‘in moving the adoption of the report and ,balance-sheet, it appears to your hoard
of directors a fitting occasion to give expression to several matters affecting the
period of reconstruction after the war,” said Mr. E. W. Holden, M.L.C., chairman
of directors of General Motors-Holden’s, Ltd., at the annual meeting on June I.
“We are concerned with the fact that 4 several
salient factors affecting the post-war problem
have become no clearer since the last annual
meeting.
“There can be no question of the unstinted
support given to the national effort by Aus-
tralian industry in all its branches, and the tact
that approximately 85 p.c. of the total employed
in the supply of war materials and services
were, and are, engaged in the factories and
establishments operated by private enterprise
indicates that industry was responsible tor me
bulk of the nation’s war production. Neither
can there be any question that' industry will
have to make the major contribution to the
national objective of providing gainful em-
ployment in the period of reconstruction to
many thousands of workers and ex-service men.
This responsibility rests heavily on the shoulders
of your board, since upward of 10,000 em-
ployees of this company and their dependants
are directly, and many thousands indirectly,
affected.
“In the case of this company our normal
production has changed dramatically, as borne
out by the fact that -we are supplying a wide
range of war materials and services at the
rate of approximately £12,000,000 per annum.
To effect a conversion back to the production
of motor transportation, even if the course
were clearly discernible, would take at least
a year from the time production planning
commenced before tooling and preparation for
production was completed.
FRANK STATEMENT NEEDED.
“Our chief consideration before we can move
further is to have from the Government some
indication as to what priority motor transporta-
tion will be given in relation to other post-
war activities, and a frank statement with re-
gard to its policy on the importation of motor
chassis from overseas countries. Such a declara-
tion at the earliest possible moment would be
extremely welcome.
“The supply of motor transportation is an
absolute necessity in any civilised community,
and particularly in Australia.
GOVERNMENT CO-OPERATION WITH
INDUSTRY ESSENTIAL.
“The added impetus given to industrial re-
search and expansion in Australia during the
war can be best utilised if sound planning is
carried out. We, on the one hand, know the
intricacies of our own particular industry: the
Government, on the other hand, is charged with
the responsibility of determining the general
direction for the well-being of the people, and
in view of the fact that good results have been
achieved by round-table conferences between
the Government and the motor industry m
countries such as Great Britain, Canada and
the U.S.A., there seems to be no reason why
we should not adopt the same procedure here.
CO-ORDINATED PLANNING
NECESSARY.
“Australia’s particular pattern of war-time
finance and taxation as applying to industry
seems directly at variance with that obtaining
in overseas countries. It is understood that
in Great Britain, Canada and the U.S.A. very
large amounts spent on plants, facilities, build-
ings and equipment have, to a marked degree,
if not entirely, been written off as a war ex-
penditure, giving industry the opportunity to
make goods available to the public after the
war unburdened by excessive costs incurred
during the war. The following statement,
which was recently published, amplifies this
point; Tn Britain, with an eye to the rehabili-
tation of industry, and the replacement of
machinery and, stocks, there has been set aside
from company taxation a post-war credit which
is now, according to the Chancellor of the Ex-
chequer, growing by £40,000,000 to £50,000,000
annually. The British Treasurer announced, as
a basic post-war measure, the encouragement
of the drive for export markets, and allowances
to industry immediately the war ends. Apart
from existing tax-free allowances for wear and
tear, there will be a special initial allowance
of 20 p.c. on all new plant and machinery.
In addition there will be a 10 p.c. deduction
on all new industrial Buildings.’ _
“If this example were followed in Australia
it would be an effective step taken to rehabili-
tate and modernise industry and to enable it to
withstand the impact of competition from over-
seas, as well as to provide the necessary em-
ployment in the shortest time. .
“To permit the normal healthy expansion ot
industry, eriftourage the establishment of new
industries, and also attract overseas concerns,
various forms of war-time taxation, such as the
war-time company tax, the super fax, the undis-
tributed profits tax, and the special tax of 30
p.c. on overseas shareholders’ dividends, should
be removed as soon as possible after the cessa-
tion of hostilities.
DISPOSAL OF SURPLUS SUPPLIES.
“At the end of the war it is presumed
that one of the first moves will be the dis-
posal by the Government of the enormous
stocks of surplus supplies, but, based on the
experience obtaining after the last "jar, Inis
is a difficult problem, needing the fullest co-
operation with industry, commerce and all
concerned. , ,
“If the disposal of surplus supplies is carried
out in a haphazard manner the results in terms
of unemployment, disruption of industry and
dislocation of normal trade distribution
channels would not, only be great in its immedi-
ate effect, but would have repercussions for
many years in the post-war period. We sin-
cerely commend that ccpmmittees be appointed
to handle this gigantic task, and that an
orderly plan of procedure be determined in
association with industry and trade, at the
earliest possible moment.”
Under the heading “U.S. Business Out
of Dog House: Vital War Contribution
Wins General Approval and Obliterates
Ten-year Smear Campaign of New
Dealers,” Lawrence Sullivan, a correspon-
dent of the “Financial Post,” Toronto,
Canada, said in April:
After almost 10 years in the dog house
American business has emerged
as a welcomed part of the American scene.
Around the edges of the New Deal there
are still a few subordinate officials who re-
gard private enterprise or competitive
capitalism as a dreadful affliction of the
human race; but in the higher ran v s of
Government the new attitude acknowledges
that industry has performed a miraculous
job of war production, and that without
ships, ’planes, tanks and munitions on a
scale once believed impossible, victory would
be much farther off today. This change of
attitude towards private enterprise has
come over Washington gradually during the
last year. It was resisted in many official
quarters, accepted reluctantly in others.
Nevertheless, as factories continued to com-
plete their war contracts ahead of schedule,
the feeling spread that perhaps business
has something to contribute after all!
With a “smear campaign” still operating
from the direction of Canberra, it seems
that Australia is lagging a good deal
behind opinion in the U.S. A., which has
already been through much that the Can-
berra New Dealers propose to put us
through after the war. ‘Perhaps a defeat
of the referendum proposals will be neces-
sary to bring the Australian scene in
proper focus in Canberra eyes.
* * * *
The president of the U.S. Chamber of
Commerce, Mr. Eric Johnston, arrived in
Moscow last week to discuss Russo-
American trade after the war. Mr. John-
ston has already paid visits to South
America and Great Britain. He is no
theorist in his outlook on world trade,
and in an address in London last year
he revealed a directness that rather upset
those who accept the terms of the Atlantic
Charter word for word. He is obviously
something of a hustler.
*'* * *
A Commonwealth Disposals Commis-
sion of five members to sell surplus de-
fence property both during and after the
war has been established under National
Security Regulations. Names of members
had not been announced at the week-end.
* * * *
Because synthetic rubber took longer
to process than the plantation product,
and because of other technical difficulties,
the absorption of 25 p.c. of synthetic
rubber into the Australian tyre industry
would mean a fall of 10 p.c. in its out-
put, knight Frank Beaurepaire, of Olym-
pics, said last week. Use of the synthetic
product raises very serious man-power
and plant problems.
* * * *
“Australian firms engaged in the pro-
duction of optical glass showed a reluc-
tance to make available the necessary de-
tails and technique,” said J. A. Gibson,
technical adviser to the Ministry of Muni-
tions. “Information, however, was freely
offered by American scientists, and the
production of optical glass in quantity
was followed by the successful produc-
tion of many types of optical munitions
—telescopes, range-finders, gun-sights,
directors, periscopes, stereoscopes and
other material. Some of these products
were of British design, and some have
beep optically and mechanically designed
in Australia.” Australian lenses and
prisms have been exported to the United
States. A very creditable performance,
for which Professor Laby, now retiring,
is largely responsible. But the alleged
reluctance of Australian firms to co-oper-
ate may have been brought about by
knowledge of how the Government has
refused to co-operate with private
industry so many times.
* * * *
British Tobacco’s quarterly dividend is
of 4 p.c, this time ; it includes the previ-
ous quarter’s div., which was deferred
because of the tardiness of the Govern-
ment in making allowance to the co. for
increased cost of imported leaf. Subse-
quently a remission of excise was granted
in lieu of an increased price or other
relief.
* * * *
From John Brennan:
Supply and Shipping hasn’t been very happy
in its handling of mining matters in the
Northern Territory. First the Chinese evacuees
from the phosphate deposits at Nauru and
Ocean Island, whom it put on to work the
Wauchope wolfram field, couldn’t make a go
of it, and after many months, during which
production fell far below what the gougers
had been getting out of the field, the phosphate
miners had to be withdrawn and tributors
allowed in. Now private enterprise has been
asked to take over the working of the mica
deposits at Plenty River. Production fell there,
too, and mining men estimate that it was C9st-
ing £BOOO to produce a ton of mica, which,
if of the finest grade and quality, might fetch
a top price of about £3OOO. Part of the trouble,
of course, was that the 200-odd C.C.C. men
who were put on the job had had no experi-
ence in getting mica. Men who were used t'o
goldmining at Bendigo and Ballarat often
damaged a “book” of mica by placing the
charge too close. Besides, the 90-odd gougers,
chiefly Italians, who had worked the field
before the war were able to live a good deal
more cheaply; they’d tuckered themselves, and
there had been no need for highly-paid cooks,
nor for the overhead of staff costs.


THE SERVICE MAN
On to the Philippines?
“Ek Dum”: Japanese resistance on
Biak Island, in the Schoutens, off Geel-
vink Bay, seemed to show that the limit
of the retirement from New Guinea had
been reached and that a new phase had
been entered upon in which the enemy
intended to fight with fury and deter-
mination.
It was the fiercest fighting the Ameri-
cans had seen since their advance from
Cape Gloucester,
The approaches to the airfields were
found to be defended by a network of
foxholes. Indeed, a well-organised tacti-
cal plan of defence was carried out,
though preparations for it were obviously
not complete when the Americans
arrived.
The U.S. forces were compelled to
await reinforcements before they opened
the main battle against an enemy well
and modernly equipped, seemingly with
fair air cover and with main objectives
well fortified. The engagement seemed
about to open when the last communique
of June 5 was issued. Several counter-
attacks had been driven off and about
1000 enemy dead had been counted.
In other areas there was considerable
land activity. Australian forces con-
tinued to push up the coast from Madang
towards Wewak. WhenTast heard from
they were 35 miles from Hansa Bay and
nearly 70 miles from Madang. Karkar
Island (without the famous Karkar
Schmidt), a volcanic mound in the sea
off the point where the coast turns west
north of Madang, and a familiar land-
mark to travellers, was occupied with-
out resistance.
Japanese H.Q. reported the death of
Lieut.-General Katagari, killed operating
against Australian forces in the Madang
sector on April 8. He had been in com-
mand in the Finschhafen battle.
A further landing in the Solomons,
south of the Torokina perimeter, marked
the first step along the coast towards
Buin, the former main Japanese base on
the southern end of Bougainville.
Bombing covered the whole of the
South-west Pacific area, from Bougain-
ville to Manokwari, the main Jap base
in western Dutch New Guinea, and
from the Dutch East Indies to Rabaul.
Ambon was hit during the week, and
Truk and other islands of the Japanese
Mandated groups above New Guinea
had routine raids which cleaned up some
shipping and did no small damage ashore.
The whole of the Pacific operations
have an air of marking time. It is an
organisational rather than a fighting
period. The next steps will take land
operations out of the Australasian and
into the Asian zone, marking the end of
the defensive phase of the southern part
of the war.
“What I have seen gives me the abso-
lute conviction that General MacArthur
is well on his way to the Philippines.”—
Nelson T. Johnson, U.S. Minister to Aus-
tralia, after a visit to New Guinea .
Rome Falls.
“Ek Dum”: Comment on the battle
for Rome reached out a little ahead of
actual facts in these pages last week. At
7.45 a.m., Sydney time,, on May 29,
A.B.C.’s premier news station gave a cir-
cumstantial account of the taking of
Valmontone, in the Germans’ Alban
Hills defence line, by Maorilanders, This
account appeared to be official. It seemed
impossible that an official broadcasting
station would commit itself without cer-
tainty to so important a piece of news,
involving the cutting of the road to Rome
behind the Cassino front, and the inevit-
able defeat of Marshal Kesselring’s forces.
The announcement seems to have been
without any foundation save rumor. The
writer apologises for having taken the
word of the chief official broadcasting
station in Australia without checking it
with overseas sources. He should have
known from experience the extent of the
risk he ran.
Valmontone was taken nearly a week
after it had been captured by A.B.C. The
Via Casilina and other roads running
down the left side of the Sacco Valley
were cut. The town, which formed a
hinge in the Alban Hills cover defences
of Rome with the Sacco Valley defences,
was seized by Americans —apparently con-
verging forces of the Fifth Army units,
which made their way up the coast from
Terracina, and those U.S. troops which
had come from the Anzio bridgehead by
Cistern a and established artillery posi-
tions from which to flail the Via Gasilina,
Stiff Resistance
This penetration was made against
stem German resistance. The whole land-
scape round Cisterna and Artena, a small
town strongly placed in woods and foot-
hills between the coast and Valmontone,
seemed to bristle with machine-guns. And
the enemy used powerful artillery, in-
cluding the deadly 177 mm. long-range
guns which had proved so useful to them
previously in the Cassino area.
It was bloody fighting of the first order.
It continued until British, Canadians,
Maorilanders, Indians, French and Poles
had broken through the German defences
before Arce, a triumph which was just
achieved when last week’s instalment of
the story of the battle was written. Soon
the Canadian vanguard was pressing on
the immediate rear of the Alban Hills
defences only 30-40 miles from Rome in
a beeline.
Retreat from the strongholds of Val-
montone and from Velletri, on the
southern face of the hills, became impera-
tive for the enemy, even though it must
be a fighting retreat to gain as much time
as possible to allow flank areas to be
cleared ahead of the Eighth Army and
the British sections of the Fifth Army,
Qperating between Lake Nemi and the
Tiber mouth. The enemy went backwards
over two roads —©ne the Via Latina from
Artena across the hills; one the Gasilina,
via Torre Nova, from Valmontone.
There was a terrible milling fight as the
troops went out.
The Americans, taking Valmontone as
the spearhead of the Eighth Army came
tip and singed the tail of the German
escape area, pushed on four miles
and flung in great tank forces for
a break-through. Their forces swarmed
over the inland side of the hills, along
the Latina road, threatening all the
avenue of main roads running into Rome
on the Adriatic side, as well as three im-
portant railways. And they clambered
up Monte Castellaccio, which sticks up
out of the shoulder of the Alban moun-
tain group like a sore finger, 1800 ft. above
the plain, so that they could look down
on Rome itself through the haze of battle
and the shimmer of neat —it can be very
hot across the Roman Campagna in May.
There below them they could have
seen with glasses the great railway centre
of Littorio ; the cemetery by San Lorenzo
in its groves; the Government and Royal
quarter to the right, with its princely
palace gardens beyond ; and to the left
ancient Rome, the Corso winding through
the city, the dome of the Pantheon,
which has stood through 2000 years
of siege and sack, the winding
walled-in Tiber, the round tower of
Hadrian’s tomb on its nether bank, and,
beyond, the startling immensity of Vati-
can City and St. Peter’s dome, soaring
over 500 ft. into the sky. Qne who knew
Rome might, on a clear day, pick out the
Palazzo Venezia, heart of Musso’s de-
funct empire.
Rome was not, however, an immediate
prize for the Americans, The Germans
held them back.
Fight for the Laziale Pass
Meanwhile the British wing of the Fifth
Army of Anzio had driven on round the
seaward side of the Alban area aiming
for the Laziale Pass, past Lake Nemi
and Lake Albano and Castel Gandolfo,
the Pope’s summer residence. This pass
forms the strategic gateway of Rome
itself, a gap between the Alban Hills and
the Laziale Hills to the left, towards the
Tiber mouth. The pass is paved to the
depth of its soil with bones of wild
Italians and Aryans who from time to
time have sacked or tried to sack the
Eternal City.
The Germans made their stand at
Lanuvio, which controls the pass south
of Lake Nemi, on the railway from Vel-
letri. It is lodged in the fork formed by
the road from Anzio and its junction with
the Appian Way at Albano. Thence the
Appian Way runs almost as straight as
a dart to the Roman suburbs. Here and
in the pass approaches the enemy fought
for five solid days, with a desperation
dictated by the fact that a break-through
either here or in the American zone on
the left (enemy) flank would almost cer-
tainly result in all his forces in the Tiber
mouth region and in the Alban Hills, and
perhaps many of those fleeing up from
the Sacco, being made prisoner.
Towards the week-end the Foreign
Office at Berlin issued a statement that
Rome was free of armed forces. Enemy
troops were seen hastily crossing the
Tiber, near its mouth, by the regular and
improvised bridges to the railway centres
on the Vatican side and the coastal high-
ways beyond.
General Alexander announced that
Rome was not the main objective. This
was amplified to the Fifth Army by
Lieut.-General Clark on June 4 in an
order of the day which said that the
immediate aim was to destroy the with-
drawing enemy. General Alexander
issued his instructions on procedure to
Roman citizens —keep the streets clear;
make way for the armies passing head-
long in pursuit through every route
through and past Rome.
Eternal City Entered
On June 4, the Laziale Pass in their
hands, the British pushed on into the
Roman suburbs. British Official Wireless
announced late at night on June 4 that
Rome had fallen. British troops were
rolling in, Americans on their flank,
through the downhill grades beyond the
hills into a rejoicing city.
The Fifth Army alone had taken over
15,000 prisoners since operations began
on May 11.
What the Allies wanted more than any-
thing was a path to the Pescara highway,
which would allow them to sheer across
the flank of the German retreat. After
the Canadian break-through in the Pied-
monte-Ponte Corvo caisson defence Kes-
selring’s troops began to pour out along
the mountain tracks off the Liri Valley,
where it parts from the Sacco Valley near
Arce and goes to Avezzano, and on the
road from Frosinone halfway to Rome
to Carsoli, on the Pescara road.
Owing to the short distances and the
nature of the roads, there seemed little
chance that Kesselring and his two armies
would be caught in the huge trap which
correspondents envisioned, after the de-
lays in breaking the Alban Hills front.
What critics usually overlook is that bad
roads for retreating armies are generally
worse for the pursuers, whose armor
lumbers over an already torn up track
along which the enemy has left sacrificial
pockets to hold up the chase.
Maorilanders’ Short Cut
By a nightmare push over the hills on
the inland flank of the Eighth Army’s
drive from Cassino, pushing through a
land of sheer precipice and soaring,
craggy mountainside in which towns
balance themselves on the tops of pin-
nacles, Maoriland tanks broke through
Atina, on the headwaters of the. Smela,
and into the Liri Valley, hot on the tail of
the fleeing enemy as he forced his way
through Sora towards Avezzano.
This pursuit had lost its importance by
the middle of the week. The real vitality
of the Eighth Army operations lay in the
race for Valmontone, led by the Canadian
spearhead, which joined forces with the
Fifth Army on June 1. This might be
considered the decisive point in the drive
on Rome. It enclosed all Germans who
might be in the Lepini mountains be-
tween the Sacco Valley and the Pontine
Marshes. It led to the fierce burst of all-
way fighting, like the passionate surge of
a wave between half-submerged rocks at
a cliff face, as the Germans struck in all
directions in a maddened last effort to
fend off the closing Allied armies.
The Roads to Rome
There is no city in the world with a
better developed system of ingress roads
than Rome. From every direction they
converge upon the squashed circle of the
city, a dozen main ones coming in
within a perimeter of perhaps 40 miles be-
tween the coast north of the Tiber mouth
and south of it. Along all those in the
north, besides those from Avezzano, from
Tivoli, from Carsoli to the east, enemy
columns were pouring ceaselessly into
Umbria, up the river Tiber into the fast-
nesses of its picturesque watershed, over
the Tiber mouth area to the continuation
of the Via Appia, up the more level coast
towards Leghorn.
Nobody knew where the retreat would
stop. Nobody knew whether, if it received
any check, the Allied armies might not
again have a chance to go clean through
it and come out in its rear.
Dunkirk Anniversary
The sudden clamping down of the lid
on neutral shipping in the Mediterranean
foreshadowed preparations for new and
great moves. A grand phase of the war
was over. The approaches to Europe
presented an amazing spectacle as the
Germans sulkily and silently remembered
their noisy jubilation over Dunkirk only
four years before.
Then it was broadcast from Berlin that
British prestige had been destroyed;
The end of British sea power has come.
Britain has no longer power in the air to
stay the German blast. She will fail off her
pedestal with the autumn leaves and join
the ruins under the feet of the Aryans.
There will be no more, aggression from
Britain. For the first time in centuries the
Continent of Europe will tell Albion what
to do and she will obey.
Thus Berlin Radio —with a rebroadcast,
incidentally, from Moscow of most of it,
salted with remarks about “Imperialist
aggressors.”
On the fourth anniversary of Dunkirk
Britain was an armed camp in which the
word civilian almost had disappeared. It
was in the power of the navies manned
by English-speaking men to say who
should go into Europe and who should
go out; where ships and neutrals should
go and where they should not go. The
same applied in most of the Pacific. Save
for the Russian side of Japan and bits
of the China seas, the Axis nations were
in a state of iron-bound siege. Their only
contacts with the outside world were
brought them by Allied bombers and
invading armies.
A Great Battle
The battle for Rome will be regarded
as one of the great battles of the war.
The main credit for its planning belongs
to General Maitland - Wilson, General
Alexander and Alexander’s experienced
chief-of-staff, Lieut-General Alan Hard-
ing, who was formerly in command of
the glorious British Seventh Armored
Division, which can claim the longest
record of successes of any armored for-
mation or unit against the Axis —it
was in the first drives against the Italians
in Egypt and Libya and has been in the
thick of every major operation in Africa
and Italy since that time. That General
Harding is a tank man, an expert in swift
advances, shows the nature of the war
contemplated.
The main success of the operation was
achieved by the Eighth Army under
General Montgomery’s successor. General
Leese. It was the Eighth Army which
made the first forward move; and each
successive progression was heralded by
the closing of some great phase of the
Eighth Army’s operations and the open-
ing of a new one. This does not mean
that the Fifth Army, under General Mark
Clark, did not play a great part in the
battle. It played a grand and gallant part,
involving swift movement of its sections,
tenacity and a capacity to carry
strongly-placed and well-fortified and
-gunned positions under conditions of
immense disadvantage in.point of terrain.
But the matter could be put in a nut-
shell by saying that the Fifth Army held
the struggling enemy down while General
Leese and his Eighth Army ripped him
to bits and chased his bleeding remains.
The battle was notable as being the
first great tank action and mobile artillery
fought in heavy mountain country. It
has established new techniques, of which
the effects will be felt on all fronts. And
its strategy adds a new page to the mili-
tary classics.
Anzio and the Critics.
“Ek D.”: The Sytory of Anzio when it
falls into perspective will be acclaimed
one of the greatest stories of the war.
It was the supreme rehearsal of beach-
head tactics. It was made on unfavor-
able ground from distant bases. It was
preceded by a powerful feint in the Cas-
sino area which forced Marshal Kessel-
ring to strip three divisions from his
Rome defences.
As soon as these moved the Allies
pounced on Anzio at 2 a.m. on January
22. Within a week they held a beach-
head 11 miles deep with nearly 28 miles
of perimeter. The north side of the
flat space they occupied was dominated
for 18 miles by the Alban Hills; the
south side by strongholds on the face of
the Lepini Ranges. Every inch of the
beachhead was covered by German
heavy guns, including the landing stages.
Five German roads approached the
perimeter. The British, including the
Duke of Wellington’s Regiment (the
old 33rd West Riding), Sherwood
Foresters and others, held the 18 miles
of northern perimeter facing the Alban
Hills and Rome defences, which were
served by the main Roman railway facili-
ties. The Third U.S. Infantry Division
and other American troops held the nine
miles on the southern side.
The Germans rushed the 29th Panzer
Division from the Cassino front. Beaten
back in its first attack, it was joined by
the 26th Panzer Division, a division of
S.S. troops and the 715th Infantry Divi-
sion, brought hurriedly from France.
Four and a half divisions launched an
attack on February 7. Then five and a
half divisions were brought from Yugo-
slavia and six front-line divisions fldng
at the defenders of Anzio, who, under
continuous bombing and shelling, were
neatly stacking stores into dumps with
the slow precison which so shocked a
visiting Russian admiral.
On February 20, with the six divisions
in use, the Germans broke into the Anzio
lines. They were thrown out with promp-
titude and despatch. A month’s fighting
at Anzio had cost them 2816 prisoners
and 15,000 killed and wounded.
Nine days afterwards another attack
was launched with the bulk of 10 divi-
sions—this was an attempt at annihila-
tion. The 26th Panzers, the 14th
Jagers and the 362nd Infantry tried to
break the joint between the British and


CD
am
U.S. troops and forced a wedge into the
Allied positions for 1400 yards.
The Allied air forces did much to tear
the wedge to pieces with fragmentation
bombs, there being little cover. The
attack cost the enemy 9000 killed and
wounded and 700 prisoners before his
survivors retreated.
From then onwards various German
schemes were operated —radio-controlled
tanks, human torpedoes and radio-con-
trolled bombs against the supporting
fleet. Up to April 17, 277 air attacks had
been made on the beachhead, and in the
early stages naval casualties were not
light— two cruisers (Penelope was one),
two destroyers and five major assault
ships in the first 45 days.
But when the beachhead force was
called on to serve its purpose it was still
there, 122 days after it had been estab-
lished.
It shortened the battle for Rome by
many days, saved many British and U.S.
lives, provided a base from which Rome
could be entered directly, made it un-
necessary for the army breaking through
from Cassino to worry about anything
except the direct purpose of destroying
the two full German armies which by
now were operating in the Roman
region, and assured that there would be
no delay in shortening General Lease's
communications.
It is worth while quoting for the benefit
of the again-discomfited critics of British
strategy the words of General Alexander,
uttered at the turn of the tide in Febru-
ary, when it became certain that the
bridgehead could hold —some modest
British official sent them diffidently to
this office last week:
We have won the first round [i.e., of the
battle for Italy.] We are winning the
second. The third round will come when
we have gathered our forces for the punch.
Anzio was the “pilot” operation for
the invasion of Europe elsewhere. Of it,
General Alexander said in February:
“Anzio-Nettuno is the symbol of and a
model for the crucial battles in the west
which lie ahead.”
Burma and China.
“Ek Dum”: The Wingate force of
British troops in Burma has linked up
with General Stilwell’s Americans and
Chinese to surround Myitkina. The rains
are rising to full blast, but both sides
badly need the town, and a bitter fight
for it is likely to come to a climax within
the next few days.
On the Imphal-Kohima front the Japa-
nese last week were falling back unhappily
in the downpour. Many will never see
Japan again.
In China the enemy’s campaign against
Changsha and Changteh is not yet fully
developed. Many of his thrusts seemed
to be feints or explorations preparatory
to large moves. Chungking believes that
the Japanese High Command will en-
deavor to settle the war in China this
year so as to be in full command of the
country’s resources and communications
before there is a first-class Allied offen-
sive in Asia. And it seems only too prob-
able.
Heavy Bombing Figures.
“Ek Dum”: Bombing of Europe from
Britain is now on a grand scale. There
were hopes on the basis of average
weather that conditions might be favor-
able for invasion at the past week-end,
but thunderstorms over Europe and a
choppy sea were reported.
May was the best bombing May from
a weather viewpoint since the war be-
gan, and the air activity was a record
for all time.
Two of the heaviest nights of bombing
saw 8500 tons of bombs dropped over
western Germany. Major raids were
made on all but four nights, apart from
attacks on 26 objectives by the Mosquito
squadrons. The development since this
time last year may be estimated from the
fact that in last July only 18,000-odd tons
were dropped, 15,000 by the R.A.F. In
May the R.A.F. dropped 37,000 tons.
U.S. Air Forces operating from Britain
and Italy claimed 1268 enemy aircraft in
May for a loss of 481 heavy bombers and
235 fighters. This was reckoned at
1.59 p.c. of bombers and 1.19 p.c. of
fighters dispatched ; but it means the loss
of about 5000 highly-trained personnel.
In considering the damage and casual-
ties inflicted on the enemy these man-
power losses should not be forgotten—at
the present rate the equivalent per annum
of 24 full divisions of the flower of
British, Dominion and American youth is
being lost in air attacks over Europe
alone. Weeks ago the enemy claimed to
be holding 10,000 U.S. airmen as
prisoners in Germany, and there were
recently 500 in Sweden.
Co-operation in Russia.
“Ek Dum”: Two brisk battles, purely
local, but far from insignificant, were
raging in the Carpathian area through
the week. Little was known of them.
They both appeared to be positioning
attacks by the Germans to throw the
Russians off heights on the flank of the
Tartar Pass approaches and off other
heights commanding important high
ground at Pruth River bridgeheads, north
of Jassy.
In each case the enemy seems to have
used new techniques experimentally, with
powerful forces of new-type tanks and
strafing ’planes. And he seems to
have made some penetrations of the
Russian lines, but whether he can hold
them in the face of Russian reinforce-
ment is another matter. With the rest
of the front quiescent the Russians should
be able to take care of such a situation.
The most notable news from Russia
was that shuttle-bombing between the
Mediterranean and the southern Russian
front had been established by the U.S,
Air Force. Save for the operations of
British squadrons in the north against
enemy shipping, this is the first time that
the Russians have allowed any of their
western allies to fight from Russian soil.
The first waves of Fortresses and Libera-
tors left the Mediterranean area, dropped
their bombs on targets along the Russian
front, in Russian territory were re-armed
and then switched their attacks into
reverse.
From the Mediterranean it is still a
long flight to the intimate objectives of
the Russian front and loads carried must
be comparatively ligh|. The new develop-
ment is, however, a welcome move which
will cause the enemy worry and harass-
ment when he comes to fight his Car-
pathian battles, since it will menace his
rear communications.
The Royal Navy now has almost
cleared the Murmansk route of real
menace.
Yugoslavia Calling!
“Ek Dum”: Marshal Tito has been
tracked to his mountain “lair” by corre-
spondents—the word “lair” is theirs. The
result is an increase in the flood of non-
sense which is issuing from Yugoslavia
and beginning to irritate even Partisans.
The first correspondent who entered
Yugoslavia last June found all the Parti-
sans wearing Red Stars of the Red Army.
Partisan language and methods of propa-
ganda were also Communist, but assur-
ances were given that the Partisan move-
ment was the result of the irresistible up-
surge of democracy in the hearts of Serbs,
Croats, Slovenes, Albanians, Bosnians,
Dalmatians, Montenegrins and the rest.
It is still being stressed by the corre-
spondents in Marshal Tito’s “lair” that
the Communists are only a “small element
—not more than five per cent.” They
never are. The population of Russia is or
was just on 200,000,000 ; but the strength
of the Communist party has only once
passed 2,500,000 in membership, and
Marshal Stalin told the annual confer-
ence of the party at Moscow (March,
1939) that it had grown too large and
therefore had been reduced by 250,000
by a purge of undesirable elements. Yet
the Communist party rules Russia with
a rod of iron.
Titoism rose to power when the Italians
evacuated their zones in Yugoslavia. It
is still limited to five separated zones of
former Italian influence down through
the wild mountains and forests of the
west, and then only to those parts which
are remote from towns of importance
their permeations cover about 25,000 sq.
miles in all.
It is unfortunate that Partisan opera-
tions do not extend to eastern Yugo-
slavia. There really useful work could
be done in cutting the Bulgarian railway,
a main German line of communication
with the Russian front, or the Danube
communications, or those between Bel-
grade and Budapest, or those with Greece.
And though about the most useful kind
of war would be to turf the Bulgarians
off their large slice of conquered Yugo-
slavia, which runs the whole width of
southern Yugoslavia, it appears to be a
closed season for Bulgarians. The Bulgars
lie, a broad barrier between Tito and
the Greeks, unmolested, when a junction
should be of vast importance.
The British Government sent a mili-
tary mission to Marshal Tito quite early
in his reign ; it also had a military mis-
sion with General Mihailovich. And Mr.
Churchill has praised the efforts of Tito,
though his praise in the full text has a
different quality and implication from
versions retailed to Australians by press
and radio. The British official attitude
is necessarily determined to a large extent
by the attitude of the Yugoslav Govern-
ment in exile.
It is represented that Tito has an army
of 300,000 at his command, keeping 17
or 20 German crack divisions locked up.
Enumeration of the “crack” German
divisions reveals many of them as
levies, often from not very loyal sec-
tions of Hitler’s synthetic empire. And
there is no evidence to show whether they
are at full strength or whether, as is
probably the case, many of them are
merely represented by skeleton divisional
organisations ready for the reception of
man-power in case of need.
According to Captain Boroslav Todo-
rovich, visiting Washington on behalf of
General Mihailovich:
General Mihailovich, with present armed
forces of from 35,000 to 40,000 men, could
mobilise at least 400,000 effectives when
Allied forces landed in Yugoslavia. The
captain estimated the nuipber of Partisans
at 20,000 to 25,000 men, 90 p.c. being Com-
munists bent on furthering their ideology.
-— N.Y. “Times.”
Marshal Tito’s response to this was to
announce the opening of the German
“spring offensive” against him with heavy
fighting in four sectors and the killing
in the first day or two of 1500 Germans.
The Partisans, aided by thousands of tons
of war material received from the Allies in
the past few months, are battling to stem
Axis drives.
It appeared that German main commu-
nications were being crippled everywhere,
and that the enemy was being aided by
“Mihailovich Chetniks and quislings,
who were being killed off like flies.
This version was subject to the usual
typically Balkan disputation. The enemy’s
version—for what it is worth was that
he was rooting out “a few bands of
brigands under the control of the Bol-
shevik Tito.”
Supplies for Tito
Three days before Tito officially re-
ported the receipt of “thousands of tons
of Allied supplies in the past few
months,” with which supplies he was wag-
ing his offensive, Mr. Cy Sulzberger, of
the N.Y. “Times,” one of the few corre-
spondents with a knowledge of the Ser-
bian languages, interviewed a naval
officer at Partisan supply headquarters
in Italy. Outside the harbor lay “tiny
Partisan ships—mainly small schooners
and sailing barges, but with some fairly
large steamers.”
“Sitting on the steamship deck drink-
ing slivotvitza” —a procedure calculated
to result in a primary state of high opti-
mism, as the writer can testify—Lieut.
Bozo Borcic told Mr. Sulzberger that of
the ships at Marshal Tito’s disposal only
15 were operating, it having been impos-
sible to obtain necessary repairs. He
added: —
The total Allied stores we have received
amounted to one Liberty ship full, and of
that about 40 per cent, has been going to
Allied special units operating in the Adri-
atic. That is not enough. Mountains of
greetings and just one Liberty ship’s worth.
It would be better to have less talk.
A mechanical note was introduced into
the conversations by Lieutenant Bozo
Borcic’s remarks about a “small number
of American light tanks all bearing
the marks of being unquestionably
secondhand and of repair after previous
damage of which the marks appeared on
their sides.” The Partisans were “ex-
tremely proud of them,” and the lieu-
tenant said:
You know German Tiger tanks [the
60-tonners of Tunisia, armed with 88mm.
guns, which have an effective range of
1500-1700 yards against armor] are so
hot inside they must fight - with the top lid
open. Our Partisans can drop hand
grenades or bottles of hot gasoline into
them. These [the light American tanks]
are better, because they can keep the lid
shut. Everything has something good in
it, something bad.
As a matter of fact, the type of U.S. tank
mentioned would be treated as jamtin by
any anti-tank rifle.
However, the pfess insists that supplies
have been pouring into Yugoslavia. Indeed
“in a single night nearly 35 tons or
urgently-needed supplies were dropped.
A half squadron of transports could
accomplish that job. And at 35 tons a
night it would take a month to drop
supplies for one day’s operations on a
modern battle scale for a single division.
Mihailovich Version
Major Voislav Lukatevich, described
as “a commander in the Yugoslav Army,
said in London on March 24 that
Mihailovich had 30,000 troops armed
and ready in the mountains of Serbia and
would strike at a signal from the Allies.
Another 150,000 were already organised,
though unarmed. On June 1 the young
King Peter ordered Mihailovich to enter
the fray in conjunction with Marshal Tito,
the order for which Mihailovich says he
was waiting. But Marshal Tito’s greeting
to what should be a useful accretion to
his forces is scarcely an omen of co-
operation. He calls Mihailovich that
quisling supporter of the Germans.”
Although divisions of Tito’s troops
with high numberings “the 15th and
37th divisions” are frequently men-
tioned in action, obviously they can only
be shadow forces at best. Indeed the
forces of both Mihailovich and Tito, even
on their own estimates of total strength,
are only a drop in the bucket compared
with what would be needed to keep half
a dozen full divisions, even without re-
serves, operating on a very minor scale
against fully armed German resistance
in Yugoslavia. A ration strength of
300.000 in a modern army with air sup-
port means 30,000 to 40,000 fighting men.
Nothing on a large scale can happen
in Yugoslavia till well over 2,000,000 tons
of Allied shipping has been dedicated to
that front. A large tactical air force,
involving the provision and training of
30.000 or 40,000 men, will have to be
attached to the interior Allied forces.
Unless, of course, the Germans pull in
their horns and abandon the Balkans
under pressure from other directions.
Meantime, it can be taken for granted
that in Yugoslavia the Serbs, the
Macedonians, the large proportion of
descendants of Turkish conquerors,
the Albanians and the Montenegrins
are making life as hard as possible
for the enemy, caring little whether
their rifles are marked with a Red Star
or a royal crest, so long as they are rifles,
and ready to follow anybody who will
give them cartridges.
Preserve me from being alone on a
bleak, winter-struck river bank in Yugo-
slavia with a couple of typical natives
who are displeased with me, even though
they be armed only with bone knitting
needles!
In brief:
A substantial body of soldiers of several
races, “spearhead of the force from the Dutch
territory to join in the fight against Japan,”
has arrived in Australia from the Dutch West
Indies.
* * * *
Having turned out its first Beaufighters and
having already hundreds of Beaufort bombers
in action, Australia is now beginning the
manufacture of Lancasters, which Canada
is already building in quantities.
* * * *
Marshal Tito last week ordered a general
offensive of his forces, whereupon the Ger-
mans descended on the Marshal’s H.Q. He
himself and his staff escaped, with Major Ran-
dolph Churchill, but the enemy pinched
a Reuter lad and two cameramen.
« * * *
In the year to March 31 Britain built 27,273
aircraft compared with 7940 in 1939. But
numbers are not much of a guide. In the
engineer’s currency of airframe poundage pro-
duction was four times that of 1940, when
15,049 machines were built, and the bomb-
load which 1943-44-built machines were cap-
able of carrying was 35,000 tons against 4500
tons for the 1940-built machines.
* * * *
‘‘Ek D.”: Yet another German-general has
turned up after being wiped out by radio—
General Guderian. Guderian played a lead-
ing part in the tank break-through in France
in 1940, and in the break-through north of the
Pripet Marshes in 1941. Having perished
ignominiously fleeing with the remnants of his
Panzer forces in the Caucasus af the end ot
1942, he has now reported in France. But
resurrection can be nothing to a man of his
strange experiences. One of Australia’s most
learned commentators appointed him Chief ot
the Russian General Staff and explained how
the sterling apprenticeship which he had served
under Marshal Stalin in tank warfare had
enabled him to win a particularly brilliant
victory over the, Germans near Bryansk, ine
Germans at that time and place were com-
manded by himself.


A I
m
fa■ ,■
S : ;
w&m
»as&
v
I
m
■m
W* ,;lf MPHHH
■ mtg%
yM
*mmmmm
gHPiMiPI 's warf
:'■
vnm!
HOTEL METROPOLE
Bent, Phillip and Young Streets, Sydney.
Pi
m
ill
Hill
Modern high-jbss accommodation
at a moderate tariff. Hot and cold
water and telephone in all rooms.
Rooms with private Bathrooms
available. Meals at moderate rates —
unexcelled cuisine—Dining Rooms,
Grill Room, Banquet Room and
Wintergarden, together with a first-
class orchestra.
ROOMS-ONLY RATES.
Single Rooms from 7/- per night
Double Rooms from 13/- per night
Telegrams, Cables and Wireless:
“METROPOLE,” Sydney.
Telephones: 8W2061 (9 lines)
86363 (4 lines)
SPORTING NOTIONS
(Conducted by "PILOT")
Rosehill was crowded on Saturday, but
that is customary nowadays. It is hard
work reaching bookmakers or tote.
High Flight (J. Thompson) won the
Dundas Handicap from the first furlong.
Nothing looked like overhauling him over
the last half of the trip. Easter Time,
who did not have the best of luck,
finished well in second place, followed
by Prince, who will improve. Magi never
looked more than a possible place-getter,
and Faerie Queene’s much-boomed track
work went for nothing. She was not a
winning possibility at any part of the
race. Winnipeg, another good track gal-
loper, shaped very indifferently.
Lambeth (Mulley) looked as if lack of
racing might tell against him in the June
Handicap, but he proved there was noth-
ing amiss with his condition by settling
Boomanulla in the last few strides after
the latter appeared a winner a hundred
yards from home. The pacemaker. Bomb,
ran third, but lost that position owing to
his rider neglecting to weigh in, and it
went to Chief Man, who was a close
fourth. None of the other runners
showed form suggestive of early success
in a middle-distance race.
Recka Oka (T. Clarke) found seven
furlongs a trifle far at Randwick, but at
a furlong less he made no mistake in the
Nursery Handicap. He was the early
leader, and, though Marlborough and
Vermeil ran well, they never looked like
reaching Recka Oka after entering the
straight. Of the remainder Ducal Gem
and Royal Tip did best, though Titled
(by Le Grand Due) may yet be useful.
Recka Oka is by Midstream from Manu-
mit, by Manna, and was a 260gns.
yearling.
Russia (Cook), who continues to im-
prove, was third to Orderly and Turn
Again into the straight in the Three- and
Four-year-old Handicap, and then won
decisively from Prince Buzzard, who,
after being badly placed for a long way,
made up a lot of leeway in the straight.
Orderly had every chance, but though
he led round the bend from Turn Again
he weakened in the run home, and River-
ton, who was prominent throughout,
dead-heated him for third. Thorn, a
winner at Randwick the previous week,
was last.
No. 26 at the barrier in the Novice
Handicap did not disadvantage Granite
(Doon) in the first division of the Novice
Handicap. He was not &mong the lead-
ing division at the turn, but he then
slipped through on the rails, and scored
by a neck from Steadfast, who was in
charge at the half-mile and led into the
straight. Scene, who ran third, was un-
lucky. Squeezed out at the start, she was
last away, and was hopelessly placed at
the top of the straight. Wintune, Com-
mando and Submission were prominent at
the finish, and Burlington again showed
pace. Trained by F. McGrath, Granite
is a three-year-old son of Publicity and
Kiss.
The field for the second division of the
Novice Handicap was large but particu-
larly poor, and Jason and Cargeonel
IMunro) were well out from the other
runners early in the piece. Leading into
the straight Cargeonel was a sure winner
over the final furlong, though Aussie, in
second place, put up a good fight. The
Genetout colt Generator, whose im-
provement is certain, was a fair third, and
the fast - finishing Lord Wedgewood
fourth, without ever quite looking a place-
getter. Of the others Silver Chief did
best. Heavily-backed Marabelle never
got near the front. Cargeonel is a well-
grovyn son of Piccadilly and Golden
Curio, the last-named running back to
Golden Slipper on the maternal side.
Monaro’s pace in the Carlingford Mile
was something of a surprise, but, though
he was first into the straight from Chat-
ham, he had nothing to do with the finish..
Third most of the way, Beauhead led a
furlong from home, and won by three-
quarters of a length from Haripur, who,
half a furlong from home, appeared to
have a chance of overhauling him.
Omapo was third, without being danger-
ous, and the same can be written of Glen-
dower and Merrimba, who were respec-
tively fourth and fifth. Despite his bril-
liant track work (without shoes) Mer-
rimba is not so good as a few months
ago, and Glendower has reached a weight
likely to make success difficult for him
in fair company.
* * * *
Cape Hero and Winterset emphasised
their Grand National chances by again
winning the jumping double at Fleming-
ton on Saturday. Cape Hero, whose suc-
cess in the York Hurdle was his third
from as many starts over jumps, is the
hurdling “find” of the season, Satur-
day’s defeat of Hullabaloo and Benghazi
assured him of extra weight for the G.N.
Hurdle, but his connections took the view
that experience was more important than
the few additional pounds he would
receive.
Winterset, 6-to-4 favorite, staged one
of his most brilliant performances in
defeating Highway King and Caragona
in the Hopetoun Steeple, He led prac-
tically throughout the miles, and, de-
spite his huge weight of 12.12, won easing
up. Winterset has never looked better,
and Saturday’s performance suggests that
he is staying better than when he failed
in the G.N. Steeple two years ago.
Temple Chief, backed from 7 to 1
down to favoritism at 3 to 1, ended a
run of bad luck for leading jockey A.
Breasley by defeating Philander and Phil-
fred in the Sandringham Handicap. Breas-
le.y had not ridden a Melbourne winner
since March 18, and had experienced 24
successive “outs.” A section of the crowd
on the flat voiced its disapproval of
Temple Chief’s win, but the demonstra-
tion soon fizzled out.
Big Sister took her record to two wins
from three starts by decisively beating
Hartnell in the first Rothsay Handicap
for two-year-olds. She ran the seven fur-
longs in time one second faster than
taken by Lynmouth to win the second
division. Ducal gave bookmakers a 33-
to-1 result in the Royal Handicap, and
Sunrocks, one of three equal favorites at
6 to 1, unwound another brilliant finish
to beat his stable-mate Wallace James in
the Buckingham Handicap.
The Hurdle Race and
Steeplechase are again likely to be run
at Caulfield this year, and the prize-
money for each has been increased to
£l5OO. Winners after the declaration of
weights do not incur any penalty.
* * * *
If, with Government backing, the Syd-
ney Turf Club obtains a loan of one mil-
lion it might seem as if it will attain
everything it hopes to accomplish. It
must not be overlooked, however, that
interest on a million —or even three-
quarters—is a heavy drag, and that in
addition 5 p.c. of the club’s income from
racing has to go to the Compensation
Fund. In the circumstances it may be
some time before the club reaches the
very high standard of prize-money antici-
pated by owners and trainers.
* * * ic
The tote has been the medium of great
business at Randwick, and if the average
for the last three meetings is maintained
for the next (and concluding four days)
the £3,100,000 mark will be reached this
season. Up to the present the total for
22 days is £2,589,727, the most put
through on one day being £168,683 15s.
on Sydney Cup day. The smallest turn-
over was £80,682 10s, on August 21.
* * * *
Maoriland clubs, as a whole, have done
so well this season that increased prize-
moneyrik general. For its coming Grand
National meeting the Canterbury J.C. is
giving £11,250 against £9200 last year.
The Grand National Steeplechase has
been increased from £l5OO to £2OOO and
the Grand National Hurdles from £lOOO
to £1250. Considering the difference in
the population of Christchurch and Mel-
bourne, the C.J.C.’s prizes compare favor-
ably with the V.R.C.’s £2500 G.N.
Hurdles and £2750 G.N. Steeplechase.
* * * *
Optimism is a great thing in racing,
and owners of many horses now compet-
ing in the novice classes at Sydney meet-
ings lack nothing in that respect. With
fields large and spread out to over 50
yards at the finish the odds are against
the tail-enders ever improving sufficiently
to win a race. Still, hopeful owners do
a lot towards keeping the game going.
* * $ *
For this season’s jockey premiership
in Maoriland W. J. Broughton, L. J.
Clutterbuck and H. Wiggins are having a
keen tussle. Up to the middle of last month
Broughton was leading with 32 wins to
Clutterbuck’s 30. H. Wiggins was a close
third with 29.
* * * *
Totalisator percentage is benefiting
Melbourne hospitals to a greater extent
than the Government grant this year. The
latter is £249,726, while the tote’s contri-
bution for the first ten months of this
financial year is £236,696. It is expected
that the additional two months will yield
another £39,000, making the total ap-
proximately £275,000.
* * * *
Breeders are well looked after by the
five New York racing associations.
Breeders of “stakes” winners, as import-
ant races are termed there, receive 3 per
cent, of the added money, while for each
minor race there is a flat-rate award of
$25 (about £A7 10s.). Last year the
whole distribution totalled $78,260, of
which A. B. Hancock collected $6357 (a
little over £A1930). In Canada, too,
premiums are the rule, the breeder re-
ceiving 5 per cent, of a horse’s winnings.
* * * *
Some horses strike form rapidly and un-
expectedly. Garden Path, winner of the
recent Two Thousand Guineas in Eng-
land, did so. A month before that race
the shortest price quoted against her in
any of the advertised lists was 33 to 1,
while in others, with prices ranging up
to 40 to 1, she was not even mentioned.
At that time Orestes was favorite at 9 to
2, with Happy Landing next at 9 to 1.
Neither was placed. The Derby will be
run on June 17.
•5^
There is a boom in bloodstock in
South Africa, as well as nearly every-
where else. At the Witwatersrand Agri-
cultural Society’s sale of yearlings in
April 112 lots realised 72,125gn5., an
average of a little over 672gns. This beat
all previous S’African records.
Miscellaneous
Richmond’s “Tigers” went to Carlton
on Saturday flaunting their 1943 premier-
ship and this season’s leadership, lashing
their-tails and roaring “Eat ’em alive.”
But Carlton ignored flaunts and roars,
fell on the ball and gave the “Tigers” a
lesson in pace, marking and position play
on a windy day; Carlton, 16.12; Rich-
mond, 14.8. The game of the day was
between North and South ; a ding-dong
match went to Norths by a point on the
bell; North, 10.13; South, 10.12. Essen-
don, 17.14, easily disposed of Geelong,
11.14 ; but other games were close: Col-
lingwood 10.13-8.9 v. Hawthorn; St.
Kilda 13.8-10.13 v. Melbourne ; Foots-
cray 8.15-8.10 v. Fitzroy. About 70,000
saw the six games.
* H= * *
In Saturday’s principal Rugby Union
match West’s forwards bottled up Uni.’s
backs and its three-quarter line handled
and combined well to score five tries to
two and rout the Students 25-9. Rand-
wick just scraped home against St.
George, 15-13. Randwick is now three
points ahead of West, with Uni., North and
Drummoyne (equal) third. Other games:,
North 9, Manly 5; Drummoyne 8, East 3;
Gordon 32, Parramatta 15.
* * * *
Down from Brisbane to fight Tommy
Johns ,at the Sydney Stadium, Art Davis
went into action immediately, fists flying
from all angles. Johns knocked him down
with an inside right counter. Davis
floored Johns with a left for “seven,” the
bell bringing the Sydney man welcome
relief. In the second they stood toe to
toe, and each caressed the canvas. Then
Johns’s right to the chin ended the brisk
combat, the Queenslander being out for
more than 10 seconds.
FOR RANDWICK.
(Before acceptances.)
By “ PILOT."
Novice Handicap: Aussie, 1 ;
Allan Veil, 2 ; Generator or Lord
Wedgewood, 3.
Juvenile Handicap: Cordiality, 1 ;
Top Line, 2 ; Victrix, 3.
Nursery Handicap: Lancaster
Pilot, 1 ; Removal, 2 ; High Tide, 3.
Three-year-old Handicap; Cock-
crow, 1 ; Steadfast, 2 ; Lady Marie,
3.
Flying Handicap: Tribal, 1 ;
Bangster, 2 ; High Flight, 3.
Sydney Turf Club Handicap:
Boomanulla, 1 ; Prince Buzzard, 2 ;
Russia, 3.
Welter Handicap; Omapo, 1 ;
Chief Man, 2; Haripur or Glen-
dower, 3.


Women's Letters
From Melbourne
A minor flurry in most city shops at
the close of the week indicated that there
were quite a few coupons left to be
“used up” before books were surren-
dered. This didn’t necessarily mean that
the issue was greater than most people’s
needs warranted, but rather that they’d
all become “coupon canny” and had put
off buying for as long as possible.
There were, though, occasional shoppers
who were buying yardage for bed-covers
and aprons and the like —items that the
hard-pressed coupon-saver regards as
non-essential. Though a fair crowd at
the cotton and rayon counters* showed
that some women were looking ahead to
summer, the nip in the air sent most
shoppers to buy tweeds and wool cloth,
in spite of the fact that they might have
to wait until winter is practically over
before having them made up. Point
seemed to be that even those who had
coupons to spare were not enthusiastic
about spending overmuch money, and
felt that lengths of cloth for future
making was an economical way of get-
ting coupon value.
A comeback performance of “Pyg-
malion,” which was so successful a few
months ago, is being staged on the 23rd
of this month for Lady Foster Free
Kindergarten funds and on other nights
for varied funds. Mrs. Colin Mackay,
hon. secretary to the Free Kinder.’s com-
mittee, is mother of 16-year-old Robin,
who will play the part of Eliza Doolittle.
Robin, who collected quite a sheaf of
good write-ups for her performance last
time, is midway through her first-year
Arts at Melb. Uni. President of the Lady
Foster committee is Mrs. Geoffrey
Walker. Bookings can be made with the
secretary at Win. 9425 and at Allan’s.
“A finance appeal has as many hurdles
as the Grand National” is the verdict of
organisers of Y.W.C.A. Peace-time Ser-
vices Appeal. It seems that there are very
numerous rules concerning the rights of
various groups who appeal for public
support, and they must be observed
rigidly if one is to keep one’s “good
neighbor” reputation. It’s apparently a
wise fund-raiser who knows her own side
of the fence, but organisers of this appeal
seem to have reconnoitred the difficult
terrain with skill.
The appeal is for funds to carry on
and expand normal activities which go
on in peace or war —extra war-time ser-
vices are financed by the A.C.F. There
are plans to send speakers into country
districts to set fund-raising in motion
there. This is likely to meet with great
success, as country people are amongst
the most vocal admirers of Y.W.C.A.
services when they come to find a place
with a homely atmosphere for daughter
coming to the city for a job or study.
Like a lot of other, welfare shows the
Woollies Appeal Kindergarten had opened
its doors quite a few weeks before the
“official” opening, which is scheduled for
June 10. In fact, even before the last
nail had been driven in mothers had come
along asking if they could leave Willie for
the day. When the kinder, started it was
besieged by parents with eligible young,
but had to restrict numbers to 33. The
eagerness of parents is a strong argu-
ment for more of these pre-school child
centres.
Leslie Storm’s play “Heart of the
City,” put on some time ago by the New
Theatre people, will be given another
airing by the New National Theatre
Movement shortly at St. Peter’s Hall. The
play, set in the dressing-room of the
Windmill Theatre, London, during the
height of the 1940 blitz, pictures the reac-
tions of star, stagehand and chorus girl to
the rain of bombs, and has quite a heavy
quota of wisecracks and dry witticisms.
Wilma Harrison and Nell Martin (who
played the diaphanous heroine of
“Rookery Nook”) are in the cast.
Agitation has been going on for a long
time for the revival of the eighteenth-
century coffee-house, and now it has the
weight of Dr. Macaulay, the Presby-
terians’ Moderator-General, behind it.
Idea is that people, especially the
young of the species, would have some-
where to sit and while away their spare
time pleasantly over unintoxicating cups
instead of breasting the bar for con-
viviality. Point that seems to be missed
is what really went on in Ye Good Olde
Coffee House. An enthusiast for the
scheme suffered a shock when he hap-
pened to take down Smollett’s Roderick
Random from his bookshelf one day
and read of Roderick’s goings on with
a lot of other well-oiled gentlemen in
coffee-houses.
Planing over on Sunday came Lyndall
Hendrickson, who’s always sure of a
warm welcome in this city, where she has
many friends. Plans include a recital or
two and playing at soldiers’ free concerts.
Lyndall is remembered as the girl who
was strong-minded enough to put “child-
prodigy” stuff aside after a successful
debut at it and concentrate hard op musi-
cal studies till, at the mature age of 19,
she came back to the concert platform.
She’s a musician who really goes to the
wide, open spaces for her inspiration,
and believes in getting down to work
instead of just talking about it. She’s
often found as far afield as the Flinders
Ranges; in fact, the Centre, unknown to
most Australians, is her favorite spot for
periods of close work.
Pictured here is Mrs. Erma Clark, who
has been singing at quite a number of
concerts for good causes about this town
lately. She made her debut with a musi-
cal afternoon at the National Theatre
to help Red Cross, and her attractive
contralto has been heard a lot since. It’s
hoped to arrange a recital in which she
will fill most of the programme some time
in the near future. Mrs. Clark came here
after the fall of Malaya, and her husband
is still a p.o.w. there. She brought her
two small sons with her.
Peggy Knibb is raising her very ade-
quate voice in “Faust” with the Mel-
bourne Philharmonic. She’s no newcomer
to opera, having done a good job as
Carmen last year. She is still carrying
on her studies in this city. Enthusiasts
for opera hope that some time soon there
will be some productions with costume
as in “Hiawatha,” which was performed
some years back with success. It’s felt
that a stuffed-shirted Mephistopheles can’t
really look sinister, and it’s hard to raise
a diabolical laugh under a white tie.
When Peter Gebhardt and Mary
Drake-Brockman were married some
years ago best man Donald MacTaggart
probably didn’t take much of an eyeful
of the bridesmaid who was the bride’s
teen-age sister Althea; but later meeting
resulted in matrimonial doings in the
harbor city this week. Bridegroom is now
a sergeant in the A.1.F.; the bride, fol-
lowing in her sister’s footsteps, has been
her - father’s, associate for some time.
Bridegroom hails from Oakden Hill, out
of Port Augusta.
Coming out in a new role is Peggy
Tellick, who is turning producer for the
first time with Tin Alley show “Win-
dows,” a Galsworthy play. Peggy, who
has had lots of experience., is one of the
Alley group’s most polished players, and
those who’ve looked in at rehearsals think
she is doing well as producer. The group
began rehearsing for this play as soon as
the news came through that script of
“They Came to a City” couldn’t be used
for copyright reasons. First of two per-
formances will be on the 17th of this
month. Booking is at the Uni. Union
House and at Allan’s.
In the play, and appearing with Tin
Alleys for the first time, are Loma Mori-
arty and Collins Hilton, who have both
trodden the boards at Gregan MacMahon
shows. Another newcomer is Mavis
Osborne, who’s been dancing up till now
and will do her first character part. David
Fisher will be making his first appearance
since his Demetrius in “Midsummer
Night’s Dream,” and Lucy George (she’s
now Lucy Shaw) will be again before the
footlights.
The George Sava play “Children of
Russia” seemed to show much the same
style of writing and presentation as the
author reveals in his novels. As in the
novels, there’s a fair whack of conversa-
tion and the putting forth of some in-
teresting views, G.B.S. fashion, and one
also senses autobiographical details. The
Group Theatre, who put it on, were
pleased that for two nights they were
booked out before the play actually
opened. Margaret Reid and Alex. Anders
took leading parts.
_ - . .
rTOItI Sydney
Memorial Day, May 30, is to the
United States what Anzac Day is to us.
On this day they honor, and have
honored, their dead in war ever since the
Civil War. This year Sydney paid tribute,
Flags were flown at half-mast throughout
the city during the morning. U.S. Con-
sul-General Ely Palmer was present at
Rookwood Cemetery. Over the small,
white crosses that mark the resting place
of 140 of America’s sons the Stars and
Stripes fluttered as the Recessional and
the Battle Hymn of the Republic were
played by a U.S. Army band; the gun
salute and “Dual Taps” answered by a
lone, distant bugler brought to a close a
beautiful and touching ceremony. The
Diggers’ League, always thoughtful, had
a wreath for every grave.
The most-feted man of the week was
Eugene Ormandy. U.S. Consul-General
Ely Palmer and Mrs. Palmer, chief
of the South-west Pacific U.S. Office
of War Information Frederic Marquardt
and our own civic fathers were among
the hosts.
Even after this hectic round of parties
and receptions the conductor of the
Philadelphia Symphony Orchestra came
smilingly to the late-afternoon party
given in his honor by A.B.C. And
he had every reason to smile, for
he had succeeded that afternoon in
persuading a housekeeper to come and
keep house for him and Mrs. Ormandy.
Alexander Gordon’s lady and Professor
Bernard Heinze bade him welcome. The
guest returned compliment with compli-
ment, in particular praising the good
work done by the women’s committee
(recently three men have been appointed),
and adding that if in 1934 we had nine
concerts and in 1944 we were having 90, at
that rate in 1954 there should be 900! In
passing he said that the success of the
Philadelphia Orchestra was due to its
women’s committee, two members of
which had collected $1,000,000 in six
weeks when that amount was needed to
put the orchestra on a sound financial
basis. Chairman of the commission W.
J. Cleary rounded off the speech-making
with some nice remarks about the great
conductor. Altogether, the party was a
big success. A.B.C. seems to be as
proud of discovering Eugene Ormandy as
he is of discovering Alison Nelson.
China’s sons and daughters more for-
tunately placed than their countrymen in
the war-ravaged homeland do not forget,
The Young Chinese Relief movement, for
example, keeps busy raising funds to help
the victims of aggression. On June 17
in the Town Hall the Dragon Festival
Ball will be presented with just the right
touch of pageantry. The famine-stricken
areas of China and the War Orphans’
Fund, which is the very special pet of
the wife of Generalissimo Chiang,
will benefit. Twenty-one debs, will
be presented to the wife of China’s
Minister in Australia, Dr. Hsu Mo.
One of the pretty girls interested in
the success of the dance is Norma Shem,
of Westralia. Dramatic art is the career
Norma has chosen for herself. Photo-
graph from Identity Studio.
Dr. Edith Clara Summerskill, M.P.,
visiting Australia, has the distinction of
being the first woman member of a
British Parliamentary delegation. She is
member for West Fulham, London, to
which seat she was elected in 1938. She
graduated in medicine at the age of 23.
Dr. Summerskill still practises her pro-
fession, has two children and is a writer
as well as a public speaker. In spite of
the fullness of her days she finds time to
take an interest in clothes.
Handsome Matron Kellett with the
apple-blossom complexion and the smooth
white hair, has resigned after 21 years
service to Sydney Hospital—but that is
only a small part of her lifework for suf-
fering humanity. As a young girl she
trained at Sydney, later becoming its
assistant matron. In 1914-18 she went
overseas on active service and was matron
of various military hospitals in France,
Egypt and England ; was mentioned in
dispatches twice and was decorated with
the C.B.E. and R.R.C. She is president
of the A.T.N.A. and of the Australian
Nurses’ Association. She organised the
first Returned Army Nurses’ Association
and was its first president.
On Tuesday, Wednesday and Thursday
of last week David Jones’s auditorium
was crowded with people interested in
the Red Cross Sale of Treasures. When
auctioneer Max Lawson took the last bid
the register showed the society to be the
richer by £7lOO. (Last year a similar
sale brought in £5000.) On the first day
there was an interval at 4.30 —when
sherry was served. At 5.30, when
the sale reopened, there was some spirited
bidding, 50 selected pieces being put up.
In the hour just on £lOOO went to swell
the Red Cross coffers. Highest price
for a single piece, 125 guineas, was
given for the singing bird in its
ivory-and-tortoiseshell case described
in this letter a couple of weeks
ago. It goes without saying that I. R.
Tyrrell took away with him the six
volumes of Fables de La Fontaine, 1786,
after paying a mere six and a half guineas
for each volume. The Gordon lady’s gift
of a pair of Sheffield candelabra brought
90 guineas.
Louis Blanc paid 100 guineas for an
empty picture frame. In this will be
enshrined the portraits of his wife and
small daughter Franfoise being painted
by Joshua Smith. Jimmie Bancks, Nor-
man Barrell and Tom Allcock demon-
strated how the kitchen front would
look if only artists had the designing
of cooks’ aprons. These, incidentally,
brought six guineas each. Buyers have
promised to lend them to Mrs. Alleyne
Zander to take with her to the Agricul-
tural Conference in July.
White gardenias and white stephanotis,
a three-tier finger-length veil and a
trained frock of snowy net embossed with
silver wedding bells, plus a diamond-and-
platinum linked bracelet (this the gift of
the bridegroom), made up the wedding
raiment of Janet McPhee when she and
Lieut. Colin Mac Naught, A.1.F., ex-
changed vows at St. Mary’s Basilica. The
romance started when Janet was V.A.-ing
at a northern hospital last year.
Sisters Joan and Hatty and Colin’s sister
Nancy followed the bride. Their ankle-
length frocks were of pale-pink crepe,
their heads adorned with a deep red
velvet bow from which fell pink lace
frills. Deep pink carnations completed
this effective color scheme. Janet is the
daughter of Dr. and Mrs. V. McPhee, of
Rushcutter’s Bay, and the bridegroom the
son of the W. Mac Naughts, of Dee Why.
Cocktails followed at the home of the
John Magney couple at Bellevue Hill.
The American Center at 155 Elizabeth-
street was two years old last week. There
was a day-long birthday party which
commenced at 11 a.m. ' Everything was
free, and each American service man and
woman was given a piece of the birthday
cake which, with its two candles and its
decoration of stars and stripes, dominated
the scene. The cake was so large that it
took three strong men to cut it. Consul-
General for U.S.A. Ely Palmer, Briga-
dier-General Thomas E. Rilea and Cap-
tain W. V, Michaux performed this cere-
mony by simultaneously plunging three
rather sinisterdooking knives into its
depths. The effect was attractive, as this
left visible only the loops of red, white
and blue ribbon with which the handles
were tied. Since its inception 750,000
meals have been served. In the early
days 30 voluntary helpers were able to
cope with the 650 hungry men; now 100
serve 1400 daily.
It is as hard for a club to find a meet-
ing place as it is for a family to find a
flat. The Josef Kretschmann Club dis-
covered this when, after two years in
recess, members decided, in the words of
Dolly Hollander-Moore, to shake them-
selves free of moth balls and napthalene
and reopen. Finally, the Lyceum Club
came to the rescue, and president Edith
Kilminster and the council are hoping
that the friendly Lyceum will be their
permanent address.
The first party was a great success.
Dolly Hollander-Moore brought a group
of service men and women. Valda Ker-
sey and Ruby Rich, two of the founders,
sparkled, while host Aubrey Halloran had
a word for everyone. Composer Linda
Phillips and singer Sylvia Fisher (both
of Melbourne) were the night’s guests.
Walter Kingsley sang, among other songs,
Linda Phillips’s “Railworkers.” Wini-
fred Burston played, and Esther Kahn
was a sympathetic accompanist.


Public Notices.
T MATHILDE ELVIRA PEDERSEN, of Norwegian
nationality, born at Oslo, Norway, and resident 26
years in Australia, now residing at Women’s Weekly
Club, 355 George Street, Sydney, New South Wales,
intend to apply tor naturalisation under the Nation-
ality Act 1920-1936.
Divorce Notices.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW SOUTH
WALES — In Divorce.
TO INA ANNIE FIELD late of Sydney.—TAKE
NOTICE that HAROLD CLAUDE FIELD has filed
a Petition for Divorce No. 957 of 1944 on the
ground of desertion without just cause or excuse
for three years and upwards If you wish to defend
you may enter an appearance on or before the Nine-
teenth day of July One thousand nine hundred and
forty-four at the Divorce Office Supreme Court King
Street Sydney and obtain a copy of the petition
without charge from MESSRS. KALESKI & HARRIS
Solicitors 39 Martin Place Sydney.— (l.s.) C. K.
BODY, Registrar in Divorce.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OP NEW SOUTH
WALES— In Divorce.
TO DOROTHY OLIVE CONNOLE late of Mildura.—
TAKE NOTICE that EDWARD JOHN CONNOLE
has filed a Petition for Divorce No. 1555 of 1944
alleging that you the said DOROTHY OLIVE CON-
NOLE have been guilty of desertion for three years
and upwards without just cause or excuse If you
desire to defend the suit you must enter an appear-
ance at the Divorce Office Supreme Court King
Street Sydney by the 17th day of July 1944 and obtain
a copy of the petition free of charge from JAMES
E. CARRUTHERS & CO. Solicitors of 72 Pitt Street
Sydney New South Wales. —Dated 24th May 1944.
(1.5.) C. K. BODY, Registrar in Divorce.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OP NEW SOUTH
WALES— In Divorce.
TO WILLIAM or BILL CLARK also known as
DAVIS. —TAKE NOTICE that JACK CHARLES
AYERS has filed a Petition in Divorce No. 1287 of
1943 on the ground of his wife’s adultery with you
If you wish to defend the suit you may enter an
appearance at the Divorce Office Supreme Court King
Street Sydney on or before the 17th day of July
1944 and a copy of the petition may be had without
charge from J.K. DIXON Solicitor 115 Pitt Street
Sydney.— (l.s.) C. K. BODY, Registrar in Divorce.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OP NEW SOUTH
WALES — In Divorce.
TO ELENOR GUY late of Parramatta in the State
of New South Wales. —TAKE NOTICE that MEL-
VILLE DOUGLAS GUY has filed a Petition for
Divorce No. 604 of 1944 on the ground of desertion
without just cause during three years and upwards
If you wish to defend you may enter an appearance
at the Divorce Office Supreme Court King Street
Sydney before the 17th of July 1944 and obtain a
copy of the petition without charge from MERVYN
FINLAY Solicitor Newlands House 141 Elizabeth
Street Sydney.— (l.s.) 0. K. BODY, Registrar in
Divorce.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OP NEW SOUTH
WALES— In Divorce.
TO JAMES SYLVESTER PITHERS late of Newtown
New South Wales. —TAKE NOTICE that DOROTHY
ANNIE PITHERS has filed a Petition for Divorce
No. 1009 of 1944 on the ground of desertion without
just cause or excuse for three years and upwards
If you wish to defend you may enter an appearance
at the Divorce Office Supreme Court King Street
Sydney by the 17th of July 1944 and obtain a copy
of the petition without charge from J. R. THOMAS
Solicitor 39 Martin Place Sydney.— (l.s.) C. K.
BODY, Registrar in Divorce.
The Symbol of
War has taught “His Master’s Voice”
technicians many valuable lessons.
Ceaseless investigation and research
have yielded a wealth of knowledge
that will be embodied in “H.M.V.”
post-war Radio Receivers and Radio-
grams . . . craftsman instruments that
will combine to-day’s knowledge of
construction and design with yester-
day’s traditions of leadership.
“His Master’s Voice”
Radio Receivers Radio-Gramophones
THE GRAMOPHONE CO. LTD.
(Incorporated in England)
POST-WAR SUPREMACY
HOMEBUSH
N.S.W.
R2/44
McCORMICK-DEERINC
Power! Spaed! Economy!
/VEGETABLES^
* Pre-war production "
2 5 4,000 >,Acres
/ Present N
GOVERNMENT
Requirements *
.OVER HALF MILLION
m ACRES J
t
lnl&
m
> F ARM ALL-H
A COMPLETE SYSTEM OF EQUIPMENT
FOR VEGETABLE PRODUCTION
VEGETABLES in vastly increased
supplies are urgently required for
our own and Allied soldiers, our
war-workers and civilians, to help
“Speed The Victory’’ for the
United Nations.
To meet this demand, International
Harvester has developed, under the
sponsorship of the Commonwealth
Government and in co-operation
with the State Agricultural De-
partments, an entirely new power
system of vegetable farming equip-
ment for operation in conjunction
with FARMALL-H Tractors.
This new equipment is scientifi-
cally engineered for efficient and
economical operation on Austra-
Han farms, to increase production
and to practically eliminate the
tedious hand weeding and hoeing
methods of the past.
The system includes a range of
specially designed tractor mould-
board ploughs, tractor disc har-
rows and other special equipment
for seed-bed preparation; also,
multi-row seed planting, cultivat-
ing, and harvesting equipment for
attaching direct to the main frame
of the tractor like the 4-row
cultivator illustrated above, thus
enabling acreages and production
to be greatly increased with a
minimum of manual labour. For
full information:
See Your Nearest
INTERNATIONAL HARVESTER
AGENT
INTERNATIONAL HARVESTER COMPANY OF AUSTRALIA PTY. LTD.
(INCORPORATED IN VICTORIA) 8<
BRISBANE SYDNEY MELBOURNE ADELAIDE PERTH
SMOKE-OH!
“Stand on Your Own Feet.” — “Woman.”
Except when dancing with the wife —
it doesn’t matter then.
4* 4* 4* 4*
“The population of Australia is not dense.”
—“Australian Journal.”
Only some of those are who try to
run it.
“I have a very red nose, and it makes me
feel so embarrassed. Could you help me,
please?” —“ Woman. v >
Certainly, dear. Lay off after the
fourth or fifth.
4* -I* -I- 4*
“Active man, for laundry horse van.”
—Positions Vacant advt.
A chance for some retired businessman
to get back into harness.
4* 4* 4* 4*
“Leather Overcoat, also Raincoat, suit gent.
sff. 7, fair condition.” — “S.M.H.” advt.
Only spry young fellows need apply.
“Colonel Collects Tobacco Pipes.”— “D.T.”
An empty pleasure, that.
4* 4* 4* 4*
“He had borrowed Terry’s car, but that was
not weighing very heavily on his conscience.”
—“ Women’s Weekly.”
Only a light model, apparently.
4* 4* 4* 4*
“Sheepskins Firm.” — “S.M.H.” heading.
That’s good news. There’s nothing
worse, to a sheep, than a skin that keeps
slipping and sliding all over the place.
Eureka.
“British scientists have shown by experi-
ments with monkeys that fruit juice is the best
cure for a hangover.”— “Daily Telegraph.”
When in the grim, grey morning after
Your head shoots flashes of pale fire.
And in your ears a hellish choir
Shrieks raucous peals of mocking
laughter.
You rack your dehydrated brain
For something that will neutralise
Disaster just behind the eyes . . .
And in the past you’ve racked in vain.
Now some experimental ape
Has shown a loophole of escape,
So lay a bag of ice (pro tern.) on
That seething brow, and seek no more
A cure for your affliction, for
The answer seems to be a lemon.
P. M. LUSK.
Thorny.
“While her husband was away at sea, the
gardener endeavored to make love to her,
but was rebuffed.” — Short story.
“You are my red, red rose!” he cried,
And wildly started to plead.
“I’m a■ grass widow,” she replied;
“But you are only a weed !”
T. W. N.
Cupid on the Home Front.
Realising the unusual opportunities for
Ro-mance which war shortages have given
those not very happily endowed by nature,
I founded my Last-Hope Lonely Hearts
Club about the time the .first black-
market operators got going. Its activi-
ties have since brought husbands, homes
and happiness to hundreds, and hundreds
to myself.
Miss Blank had been handicapped in her
■quest for a soul-mate by water-wing ears,
prominent chin warts and a Joe E. Brown
face-slit. With admirable foresight she
had bought early in the war a small oil
bore and accompanying refinery, and
these, together with a chicken farm and
a 100-acre tobacco plantation, judiciously
advertised in the club journal “What
Else Have You?” secured her a devoted
though fortunately short-sighted husband.
Miss Dash had failed for some 35 years
to meet Mr, Right, but after we dis-
covered that she was a vegetarian, didn’t
eat butter and owned a controlling inter-
est in a distillery, Mr, Right happened
along the day after the ad. went in.
Sixty-seven of him, to be exact.
* We had a little difficulty with Miss
Hoozit, who still possessed a few illu-
sions about her personal charms, which
with the fact that she held down an £S
a week job she considered an irresistible
husband - hooking combination. The
photo of herself which she insisted on our
reproducing made ’em all shy off, and it
began to look as if my reputation as a
matchmaker would slip a cog until I
ferreted out that she possessed a hot-
water bottle and a spare tyre. We got
17,254 replies.
PLUM.
Quite Satisfactory.
He kept a large dog in his room
(With it he’d won a prize );
“That’s most unhealthy,” said his friend
In tones of shocked surprise.
“I think you’re wrong,” he made reply.
“No need to feel alarm.
In seven weeks I haven’t seen
It cause him any harm.”
N. A. EVANS.
Report on New Guinea.
[For security reasons, only brief extracts can
be published.]
“The possibilities of the natives becom-
ing a tower of strength to the Movement
are great, as was illustrated by an inci-
dent I witnessed. Immediately I arrived
at one village several police-boys re-
fused to go on duty unless their tobacco
ration, which had been cut a month be-
fore by joz. weekly, was restored to the
full quota. I felt it incumbent upon one
to whom those untutored savages referred
as the ‘strong Gubmint fella’ to intervene
in the dispute, and intervene I did.
“I straightway ordered that not only
was the cut to be restored but the original
ration was to be doubled. The delighted
‘boys’ thereafter adopted as their slogan
in/p c _. pjj,-.
We See Eddie.
“Shortly after I had left this district all
... ~ ...
the police-boys came out on strike until
the bacca ration I had doubled was re-
doubled. This solidarity augurs well for
our Movement in the Mandated Terri-
tones.
“THf nlrl idea that native cbnnlrl bp
me 01a iaea mat natives snouia pe
treated differently in any way from white
men Should, I recommend, be replaced
by a newer conception. The term
u,, , 1 ,
taubada’ should be made taboo under
regulations. The idea of any human
1•.1 , • .
being acknowledging a master is repug-
nant to the Movement. And unquestion-
ably the natives, boys and girls, should
be eranted the franchise at 18
oe gramea me irancmse ar 15.
One incident, however, I found most
rTictnrbincr Tuct t-,nV>r nn fhf*
disturbing. Just prior to going up me
trail to the front a company of fuzzy-
WH77V ctrptrhpr bearpre wrrp cl-vlarkino
WllZZy siretcner-oearers were SKyiarKing.
One big fellow had a flower pulled
out of his hair and another substituted ;
and yet he didn’t call for a one-out-
all nut Btrikfl
dll out Sinxe.
“I felt that, so that they may get a
~.,. . , 3 ■
truer angle on industrial aggressiveness,
it would be an excellent thing tor parties
of less militant-minded (1.e., backward)
fUZZV-Wll7/ies to be siven regular educa-
iuzzy wuzzies io oe given regular cuuw
tional trips, at the Government s expense,
to the N.S.W. coalfields, the Homebush
.... Jxtoj . c .
abattoirs and the Sydney waterfront.
“Although the principles of compulsory
unionism do not appear to have been ab-
. , . .
sorbed yet by the remote head-hunting
tribes, I feel that this could be brought
, ’ ... . . r r ~ ~ ,
about expeditiously and forcefully through
the tribes’ medicine-men. I therefore
. .. . .. r, .. A . „ 1J . „
recommend that the B.M.A. should be
compelled by law to admit all medicine-
mpn nc n first ctpn tn this Bpsirahlf pnH
men as a lirst Step to mis uesirauie enu.
“Another thing that struck me was
that some tribes indulge in dances outside
their village huts on Sundays as well as
weekdays and that the dancers receive
no nav at all This renrehensible state of
no pay dl dll. iius icpiciicuMUie 6UUC ul
affairs should be remedied. Dancers
should all be enrolled in the ranks of
Actors’ Equity, with double time for Sun-
day work and time and a half for all
roliMrcolc ”
lenearsdis.
Bo.


THE OTHER FELLOW'S MIND
The contributor placed first is paid
4Jd. per line; all others 2Jd. per line.
Vocational Guidance
How many children reach school-leav-
ing age without any idea of what they
want to do with their lives and either
drift haphazardly into an occupation or
are shunted into one by their parents!
Neither parents nor children have any
data on which to base their choice. As
a consequence we get an unbalanced labor
supply: on the one side, skilled labor un-
employed or doing unskilled work at
lower wages; on the other, industry
hobbled by lack of craftsmen.
The labor market is governed by the
law of supply and demand. That law is
studied and respected where goods are
concerned, but little attempt has been
made to calculate the two factors as they
apply to jobs. The public, at any rate,
does not know at a given moment
whether we are turning out too many
carpenters and not enough bricklayers;
too many doctors and not enough archi-
tects.
After our present experience of man-
power regimentation we are determined
not to tolerate compulsory drafting to
this job or that any longer than we can
help ; but there is no reason why we
should not accept advice to guide us in
making our own choice.
The Commonwealth Statistician could,
I suggest, issue in pamphlet form, once
a year, at least, an Index of Employment
setting out the supply-and-demand posi-
tion in the labor market. Besides warn-
ing against those trades in danger of
being overmanned, it would be a pointer
to many obscure occupations, neglected
because they are unknown.
It should go to schoolmasters, clergy-
men, Parents and Citizens’ Associations ;
in fact, to anyone willing to use it as a
guide in advising youth where its oppor-
tunities lie, the purpose being, of course,
to suggest and not to direct.
I can see no reason why vocational
guidance, based on the Statistician’s
summary, should not be built into the
educational system. It need only take
the form of a talk to children approach-
ing the end of their primary schooling,
supplemented, wherever possible, by an
individual interview with each child by
someone capable of summing up ability
and offering friendly advice. Often
enough that task would be undertaken
voluntarily by one of the many men and
women interested in the welfare of youth.
—H. S. T. (N.S.W.).
Education and Films
Films are “graded” by a censor whose
sole responsibility it is to gauge the pub-
lic’s susceptibility to “immoral” influ-
ences. Those passed A are for adults.
Children under 16 are presumably non-
adult. At 16 years and a day they
apparently undergo a rapid metamor-
phosis. Should an A and a G film appear
together the “children” are expected to
forfeit half the programme—pure farce.
The film producers are the real culprits.
They pander to the box-office regardless
of whether the production is suitable for
general exhibition or not. All films
should be fit for child and adult alike.
The film industry as a medium for enter-
tainment and education combined can be
beneficial to all ages, classes and creeds.
Australia could take the lead in expand-
ing on these lines.—A. F. (A.1.F.).
Why No Children?
I suppose we should hail the Federal
Director of Health, Dr. Cumpston, as a
convert to the voluntary principle. He
is not going to make an organised
approach to women to find out why they
don’t have children, but is asking them
to give voluntary information. But do
they knowl
There are all sorts of reasons why
women mightn’t want to have children,
but no woman—or man, either —would
admit to reasons which seemed anti-
social. They would blame the economic
system, the lack of houses, the difficulty
expectant mothers have in getting
nappies, insufficient and crowded means
of transport, the refusal of tramway
boards and railway departments to carry
prams, lack of domestic service, reluc-
tance of owners to let accommodation to
pregnant women or to women with
children, the solitude inflicted on young
wives whose husbands are away and the
shortage of hospital accommodation. In
short, the reasons they would tend to give
would be those already supplied by the
National Health and Medical Research
Council, so it would be more or less
superfluous to ask them.
Every psychoanalyist and psychiatrist
has had to deal with cases of women who
think they are physically incapable of
bearing children. After long questioning
it turns out that the real reason lies in
their unconscious. These things can never
be brought out by departmental investi-
gation.—Pawang (Vic.).
The Cumpston questionnaire or what-
ever it may be called should be addressed
to men. No radical change will come
without greater courtesy and considera-
tion on their part. For too long has
another baby—or only one —meant more
lonely nights for the woman and the
added worry of making an existing allow-
ance provide for an extra child.
Apparently the majority of men consider
that costs must somehow be met from
the usual housekeeping allowance, that
curtailment of outings and amusements
and the other sacrifices that parenthood
entails must be borne by the woman.
Possibly this outlook of men is thought-
less rather than selfish ; it might be rec-
tified by the right kind of films, broad-
casts and lectures. Anyway, I honestly
think if the men shouldered an equal
share of responsibility the women would
be satisfied to rear larger families.
Money is not the determining factor.
I have reared four children (23, 18, 16
and 11 years) on £4 ss. a week. Educa-
tion, high school and college I achieved
for them by being mother, housekeeper,
doctor, nurse, gardener, dressmaker and
sewer of hand-me-downs. I saw one
picture show in eight years. Nor did I
always have the desired co-operation. Yet
it has been worth while.
A move in the right direction is being
made by providing help for the expectant
mother. Add to that sufficient money for
her to be reasonably well dressed and,
above all, co-operation by the man, and
parenthood could be a glorious adven-
ture. — Matron (N.S.W.).
Punishment of Hitler
Take him on a tour of the countries
he has ravaged, the scenes of desolation
he has created, the hospitals he has filled,
the asylums he has crowded.
Let him be accompanied every-
where by those whose “slowly drop-
ping words” would penetrate the
chink in the hard shell of his mind,
and widen it as he trod his way
through the broken bodies ; the build-
ings of tortured flesh ; the charnel houses ;
the starvelings; since this mass of suffer-
ing must be brought within his personal
contact and driven home to him —each
terrible case —as being his own personal
and ghastly crime as surely if his own
untiring right arm had done it all.
“This —and this —and this. As God be
your Judge, it was your hand that held the
“Just ran across y'r missus up the town, 'Arry !”
whip, the 'searing iron, the rubber trun-
cheon, the burning brand, the steel and
the fire. Gaze into these suffering eyes
and these, and see the vast night of your
creating, where blows a wind made loud
by the dying sighs of men and women
and children, and let it chill your soul!”
Take him from land to land until the
mountain of iniquity that he has raised
presses upon him with all its weight. I
think he can be made to feel it. I think
that chink in the shell of his mind
can be so widened that when the surging
flood of awful realisation bursts in upon
him the world need concern itself no
more with punishments for the thing that
was once called Hitler. —Retribution
(M.L.).
Soldier-electors
May 20 was polling day for N.S.W.
members of our regiment, recently re-
turned from overseas and at present
absent from our State.
A very necessary guide for voters was
provided, presumably by the Electoral
Department. It set out electorates, can-
didates and parties. But in two or three
electorates whoever was responsible
failed to insert party particulars along-
side candidates’ names, and my elector-
ate, Nepean, was one of them.
I was aware that a gentleman known
as “Stonewall” Jackson was the sitting
“ Aren't you aware you DON'T boil woollens?"
member, but that didn’t convey much
when confronted with a ballot paper
showing John Jackson, Joseph Jackson
and Taylor.
Like many others in uniform, I’ve been
far away and out of touch with the petty
wranglings of State politics, and I do
object to any Government demanding my
vote “or else” when I’m not allowed to
know what particular brand of gas I’m
supporting or rejecting. Surely someone
in the Government Printer’s office could
have ’phoned the Electoral Department
for the official programme of the Nepean
starters. If this had been done at least
one vote need not have been informal. — :
Defranchised NX-er (Australia).
Increased Powers?
The evils of centralisation and bureau-
cratic government are direct and ever-
growing symptoms of the chronic disease
the country would suffer from were all
power centred in one governing body.
I was an ardent advocate for the
abolition of State Parliaments until
I made it my business to read his-
tory. The history of France is a
record of the national tragedy of cen-
tralisation, which destroyed initiative and
responsibility. Under the guise of “demo-
cratic institutions” this
centralisation can be-
come a new kind of
feudalism —more for-
midable and despotic
than the old, for it
receives its sanction
from the people and
derives its power by
right and not by force
of personal privilege
or prestige.
Every Australian
with the right to vote
should read Our
Changing Constitu-
tion, by Drummond,
It explains impartially
all that is involved in
any revision of our
Constitution, framed
to protect the country
from the very evils we
are now experiencing
—as concomitants of
war. To perpetuate
the powers under
which these evils are
practised would be to
squander the freedom we are fighting
for. —Herbert Barker (Vic.).
Rationing of Pubs
Why not? There are obviously far too
many of them for the goods they sell.
In a place where there are three pubs,
each opening for about four hours, I
would close two and make the other re-
main open the full day. The closed pubs
could be used as hostels for service men
and women or for essential workers and
their families. The publicans and their
wives could be employed in running the
hostels or as caretakers, or the men could
be shifted to some essential industry.
The only people likely to object to this
method of making better use of hotels
would be Bung and the brewer. —W. P. T.
(N.S.W.).
The Black Market
The black market in Sydney seems to
be flourishing. Recently in the City of
Rackets a service man on leave was
offered, in addition to the usual run 01
black liquor and cigarettes, silk stock-
ings at 365. a pair, petrol at 10s. a gallon
and clothing coupons at £1 a page!
No wonder he left the city wondering
if anything effective was being done to
stamp out this illegal trading. —G. M.
(R.A.A.F.).
Mol or-tyre Distribution
A failure to understand the require-
ments of farmers rather than tyre
scarcity seems to be responsible for the
acute shortage of tyres in country dis-
tricts. All over Queensland land men are
pleading for tyres, but have to be satis-
fied with official announcements that if
they hold priorities from two to six they
can get tyres recapped, retreaded or re-
paired by applying to the Supply De-
partment.
Other users of motor vehicles, whose
need of such transport is much less essen-
tial, don’t seem to be worried by either
tyre or petrol shortages. Door-to-door
purveyors of luxury lines —cordial ex-
tracts, soaps, hair oils and
somehow secure tyres and fuel to keep
heavy cars running daily. Why this occurs
should interest officialdom, seeing that in
Queensland towns bread deliveries have
been stopped, meat deliveries restricted
to three a week, and deliveries of
groceries to two —in places, one —a
month.
In most towns suppliers of fruit and
vegetables have found tyres and petrol
too hard to get or have had to abandon
their runs. Officialdom has obviously
overlooked the fact that curtailment or
banishment of foodstuff deliveries has
imposed added burdens on housewives,
hundreds of whom are carrying on under
difficulties while their menfolk are away
fighting or are elsewhere on war work.
—Rational (Q.).
Freedom Not Wanted
I have known dogs, kept on the chain
for long periods, with a daily run of a
couple of hours, to shorten voluntarily
that spot of freedom by returning to their
kennels and standing there to have the
collar refastened. That is not peculiar
to dogs. A large number of the people
in this country —perhaps the larger
number —have no objection to dog-collars
and show a distinct preference for protec-
tion rather than freedom. They have so
little confidence in their own capacity to
live independently that, as opportunity
provides, they vote themselves into cap-
tivity.
That being the case, what hope is there
that existing conrtols, restrictions and
curtailments imposed upon us by boards,
commissions and committees will be abol-
ished when war is ended? It is unthink-
able that the large army of highly-paid
“experts” of every description will be
dismissed. Indeed, we are already being
warned that controls, restrictions and the
like must be maintained for a period in
post-war years.
Mr. Churchill has said that “the central
principle of civilisation, is that the ruling
body must be subordinate to the people.”
We are in danger of having this principle
reversed. Life is a fight for the fulfil-
ment of unsatisfied desire. That is the
key to progress, for which freedom of
thought, of expression and of endeavor are
essential. —W. W. (N.S.W.).


No Medals for Mother
hi
%*»
: ff
■
L»
m
W,,;
30^
**c
V,
r
5
, 4,
SSSsNlw**!
<9
Her cares are many
her tasks beyond number.
Every hour, every minute
She is on duty—
She sees the children
off to school
She makes the meals
She makes the beds—
and the ’planesl
Sees to the laundry
and the lathe.
Fills the shell—
and the shopping basket,
a tiring business
these days.
Cuts sandwiches
for her man
going on night duty—
and wakes at once
if her child
cries in the night.
Tired yet tireless,
She holds the fort
of the family;
the citadel
of the hearth.
She has no medals,
only the pride
of working and striving
beside her menfolk
in a great enterprise—
to save the homes
and the children
of all the world.
The women of Australia are making
great contributions to the war effort—
not least of these is what they are
doing for Savings.
Save for Victory
Inserted by William Arnoff Pfy., Limited, Homebush, with
acknowledgment to "The Times," London.
